684 VYLVS. I'YLTTS.

great harbour of jVtrrar/no. Upon this hypothesis

Col. Leake observes, that in itself it is jierfoctly

admissible, inasmuch as there is scarcely a situation

in Greece on the tow coasts, near the mouths of

rivers, where, by the operation of waters salt or

fresh, OT both united, some change has not taken

place since the times of ancient history; and that

in the present instance, then-fore, there is no great

difficulty in imagining that the lagoon may be an

ancient harbour converted into a lagoon by an ac­

cumulation of sand which has separated it from

the sea. But, among the many difficulties which

beset this hypothesis, there are two which seem quite

fatal to it; one of which has been stated by Mr.

Grote and the other by Col. Leake. The former

writer remarks that, it* the peninsula of Old Sava-

rino was the real ancient Sphacteria, it must have

been a second island situated to the northward of

Sphagia; and that, consequently, there must have

been two islands close together and near the scene.

This, as Mr. Grote observes, is quite inconsistent

with the narrative of Thucydides, which presup­

poses that there was only one island—-Sphacteria,

without any other near or adjoining to it. Thus

the Athenian fleet under Eurymedon, on first ar­

riving, was obliged to go back some distance to the

island of Prote, because the island of Sphacteria

was full of Lacedaemonian hoplites (Thuc. iv. 13);

whereas, if the hypothesis of I>r. Arnold were ad­

mitted, there would have been nothing to prevent

them from landing on Sphagia itself. It is true

that Xenophon (Hell, vi 2. ^ 3) speaks of "S^cryiai

in the plural, and that Pliny (iv. 12. s. 2">) mentions

'* tres Sphagiae;** bnt two of them appear to have

been mere rocks. The objection of Col. Leake is

still more fatal to I>r. Arnold's hypothesis. He

calls attention to the fact that the French Coin-

mission observed that the walls of the castle of Old

Navarino stand in many parts on Hellenic founda­

tions, and that in some places three courses of the

ancient work remain, consisting of a kind of ma­

sonry which seem* greatly to resemble that of Mes-

aene. Besides these remains of middle Hellenic

antiquity, some foundations are traced of a more

ancient inclosure at the northern end of the penin­

sula, with a descent to the little harbour of YvUlh<>~

K 'tHa by means of steps cut in the rock. Remains

of walls of early date are to be seen likewise towards

the southern extremity of the hill, among which is

a tumulus; — all tending to prove that the entire

peninsula of jXararino was occupied at a remote

period of history by an ancient city. This j^eniu-

BuJa could not, therefore, have been the ancient

Sphacteria, which never contained any ancient town.

The only way of reconciling the account of Thucy-

dides with the present state of the coast is to sup­

pose, with Mr. Grote and Cnrtius, that a great

change lias taken place in the two pas-age* which

separate Sphagitk from the mainland since the time

of Thucydides. The mainland to the south of A'n-

rarino must have been much nearer than it is now

to the southern portion of Sphayia, while the north-

em passage also must have been both narrower and

clearer. (Leake. Mono, vol. i. p. 401, seq., Ptlo-

poniw.tiaca, p. 190, seq.; Arnold, Apptndix to Thu-

ctf'ii'/ts, vol. ii. p. 400, seq.; Grote, Greece, vol. vi.

p. 427,seq.; Curtius, Ptlopotmesos, vol. ii. p. 173,

seq.; Roblnye, Ih'cherches, p. 113; Ejjwdition

Scientijujw de la Morcr, vol.i. pi. vii.)

It is unnecessary to relate here the events which

followed the erection of the Athenian fort at Tylns,

and which terminated with the caplore ftf tar

Spartans in the island of Sphacterii. is ibey aw

given in every Grecian history. The following e*»

tract from Col. Leake illustrates the descriptive!

rhncydides in the moat satisfactory manner; "Tat

level and source of water in the middle where 1st

Lacedaemonians encamped,—the summit it

northern end to which they retired, — the

places on the western side, to which the

brought provisions, — are all perfectly

Of the fort, of loose and rude constru

summit, it is not to be expected that any

should now exist; but there are some

signal-tower of a later age on the same site,

summit is a pile of rough rocks ending in tfl

it (dopes gradually to the shore on every *io>T

to the bar boor, where the cliffs are

though here just above the water there is s

slope capable of admitting the passage of sbatf

men active in climbing among rocks and

places. By this pass it is probable the >1

came up.m the rear of the Lacedaemonians sa ■

summit; for just at the southern term nut we at ■

pass there is a passage through the clifla *!■

border the greater part of the eastern threat m

island, so that by this opening, and ahmg 1st

under the rocks to the northward of it, the

mans had the means of passing unseen treat

centre of the island to the rear of the

nians on the summit. Though this hill

gradually from its. rocky peak to the i\nm OB

side except towards the harbour, it d>je» not

of a landing at its foot, except in the

weather; nor is it easily assailed on any

land, on account of the ruggedness of the

except by the means to which the Me*

sorted; so that the words of Thuoydides

it are perfectly accurate (Ik &aAao-<n;s an

Kal 4k tt]s yrjs ^kmttcl 4*iu.a\ov'). The

extremity of the island is rocky, steep, and

of access, and forms a separate hill; in

part the ground slopes from the clirfa on the

the harbour to the western shore. whieJk, thai

rocky, is low; so that when the wea:her i* eaS

is more easy in face of an opfmnent to Und, a^

make way iuto the island on that side

eastern shore, where the cliffs admit of*

access only in two places, one towards the

end, the other in the middle of the inland,

opening in the cliffs leads immediatelv iata I^H

level part of it; exactly in the opening stay]

small church of the Fanaghuu There are-si

small creeks adjacent to each other, near the

em end of the eastern side of the L-Und. m

to Neokastro: near these civeks there as 1

The principal source of water is toward* taafl

die of the island, at an excavation in ther

20 feet deep, which seems to be mor*

than artificial; for below a shallow surface

in which there is a circular periston^ una

masonry, the excavation in the rock is

slanting. In one or two places there

high bushes, and there are low shrobe in

of it. It often happens, as it did in tlst

summer of the Peloponnesian war, that a

curring accidentally or of intention, clears

of the island during the droughts of

the northern hill exhibits at thia

marks of a similar conflagration." f

408, seq.)

The peninsula of Coryphaaiiun is a

