XORICUM. 447 Nonicujr.

tptilJtbi Tmrisci in Xoricum, which province

m t» km faired its name from it. The town

nunatatt little to the south of the river Murius,

- :ie nad from Yirunum to Ovilaba, and formed

■ mini print of the traffic in gold and iron

o N neon: for in its neighbourhood a considerable

c-jtiiit <i jrokl and iron was obtained. (Strab. v.

y M. W. PaU.) The place is celebrated in

bas* ■ account of the defeat there sustained, in

t' I!J. bj Co. Carbo against the Cimbri, and on

rmu of ill iiere bj the Boii about B. c. 69.

(SnaU: Ur.EpiL lib. liiii.; Caes. B. G. i. 5.)

fa' (iii. 23) mentions Norcia among the towns

■i.-i W perished in his time; but this must be a

saak», it SureU is still mentioned in the Peutin-

r- ir. Table, or dee Plin j confounds this place with

avLirefine same name. The sito of the ancient

inu ii no* oecapied bj the town of Xeuntark in

arm (kVhar, Soriemn, i. p. 271.) [L. S.]

WWO'tK (Xoricus ager, Nataia-oV), a country

• «ata of the Danube, bordering in the west

■ > *u and VindelicU, from which it was sepa-

lie rirer A en us; in the north the Danube

">1 it from Germania Magna; in the east it

Mrni an pannonia, the sluns Cestius forming the

i'.-ii.'T. sad in the south on Pannnnia and Italy,

«biti it was divided by the river Savns, the

ay Camion, and mount Ocra. It accordingly

•»?n»rf the modem Upper and Lower Austria,

«g"a Ua im and the Danube, the greater part of

fenalata, and portions of Carnioia, Bacaria,

Wans the lerritory of Sabbvg. (Ptol. ii. 13.)

■ tan Naricnm.is traced by some to Norix, a

■ 4 Hercules, bat was in ail probability derived

« .Yens, the capital of the country. Nearly the

ay* 'i .Veicun b a mountainous country, being

tsrwdci in most parts by mountains, sending

»»> affirtVitina into Xoricum; while an Alpine

called the Alpes Koricae, traverse the whole

o«atrr is the direction from west to east.

^ onptioo of tbe nortii and south, Noricum

ft on*i_T pUios. but numerous valleys and

*v utter of which are all tributaries of the  
Ml The climate was on tbe wliole rough and

Had tbe fertility of the soil was not very great;

la u« plains, at a distance from the Alps, the

■•arrf tot country was different and its fertility

(lad. Grig, jut. 4.) It is probable that

■ taut, by draining marshes and rooting out

■tt. ual mud) to increase the productiveness

llfcf (wntry. (Comp. CUudian, BelL Get. 365.)

P tin pmt wealth of Noricum consisted in

«f*ld and iron. (Strab.iv. pp.208,214;

L xi». 711, Ac.; Piin. xxxiv. 41: Sidon.

f- T- SI.) The Alpes Noricae still contain

traces of the mining activity displayed by

* I ■ m ibose parts. Norican iron and steel  
B nsUMiluil in ancient tiroes as they still are.

Ala- Stnm. L p. 307; Horat. Curm, i. 16.

^ xni. 71; Martial, it. 55. 12; Rutil. /tin.

■Lfce.) Tne produce of the Norican iron mines

•1 ■ saw been sufficient to supply the material

** aBaafactanes of arms in Pannonia, Moesia,  
>a*tsn Italy, which owed their origiu to the

'* .i < t Noricum. '1 here arc aUo

•/...=.« trim tin- R.in.mii were nut un-

with the salt in which the country

■**», snd the plant culled Saliunca, which

■ft «*-^sntIy in the Alpes Noricae, was well

■* * the Bocnans, and used by them as a

{Van. xxi. 2a)

The inhabitants of Noricum, called by the general

name Norici (Nvpttcoi, Plin. iii. 23; Polyb. xxxiv.

10; Strab. iv. pp. 206, 208), were a Celtic raco

(Strab. vii. pp. 293, 296), whose ancient name was

Taurisci (Plin. iii. 24.) The Celtic character of

the people is sufficiently attested also by the names

of several Norican tribes and towns. About the

year b. c. 58, the Boii, a kindred race, emigrated

from Boiohemum and settled in the northern part

of Noricum (Caes. B. G. i. 5). Strabo (v. p. 213)

describes these Boii as having come from the north

of Italy. They had resisted the Cimbri and Teu-

tones, but were afterwards completely annihilated

by the Getae, and their country became a desert.

Ptolemy does not mention either the Norici or the

Boii, but enumerates several smaller tribes, such as

the Sevaces (SeoyaM?) in the west, the Alauni or

Halauni ('AAawof) in the south, and the Ambisontii

('AuGVtui-rioi). the inhabitants of the banks of the

Isonta, In the east the same authority mentions

the Norici (Nwpiiro.) together with two other small

tribes, the Ambidravi ('A^fiiSpauo/, i. e. dwellers

about the Dravus) and the Ambilici ('A^Aiho.,

or dwellers about the Licus or Lichias, or Lech). It

must be observed that, in this enumeration of

Ptolemy, the Norici, instead of forming the great

body of the population, were only one of the six

smaller tribes.

As to the history of Noricum and its inhabitants,

we know that at 6rst, and for a long time, they were

governed by kings (Caes. B. C. i. 18; Strab. vii. pp.

304, 313); and some writers speak of a regnum

Noricum even after the country had been incorporated

with the Roman Empire. (Veil. Pat. ii. 39, 109;

Suet. Tib. 16.) From early times, the Noricans had

carried on considerable commerce with Aquileia

(Strab. iv. p. 207, vii. p. 314); but when the

Romans, under the command of Tiberius and Drusus,

made themselves masters of the adjoining coun­

tries south of the Dauube, especially after the

conquest ofKhaetia, Noricum also was subdued;

and about b. c. 13, the country, after desperate

struggles of its inhabitants with the Romans,

was conquered by Tiberius, Drusus, and P. Silius,

in the course of one summer. (Strab. iv. p. 206;

Dion Cass. liv. 20.) The country was then

changed into a Roman province, probably an im­

perial one, and was accordingly governed by a

procurator. (Tac. Hist. i. 11, Ann. ii. 63.) Partly

to keep Noricum in subjection, and partly to pro­

tect it against foreign invasions, a strong body of

troops (the legio 11. Italica) was stationed at Lau-

reacum, and three fleets were kept on the Danube,

viz. theclassis Comaginen^is, the el. Arlapensis, aud

the cl. Laureacensis. Roads were made through the

country, several Roman colonies were founded, as at

Laureacum and Ovilaba, and fortresses were built.

In the time of Ptolemy, the province of Noricum

was not yet divided; but in the subsequent division

of the whole empire into smaller provinces Noricum

was cut into two parts, Noricum Ripense (the

northern part, along the I)anubc),and Noricum Medt-

terraneum (embracing the southern and more moun­

tainous part), each of which was governed by a

praeses, the whole forming part of the diocese of

Illyricum. {Not Imp. OccuL p. 5, and Orient, p. 5.)

The more important rivers of Noricum, the Savus,

Dkavus, Murus, Abi*apb, Isks, Jovavuj* or

Isonta, are described under their respective heatls.

The ancient capital of the country was Noiekia;

but, besides this, the country under the Roman

