DOS TAURANIA. TASCIACA.

Arruge, a branch of t he Garonne. This Tarascon

is iu the Pays de Foix, and in a valley at the foot

of the Pyrenees, which circumstance seems to indi­

cate mora probably the position of a small tribe or

people than that of Tarascon on the Rhone. This

Tarascon on the Arriiye is mentioned in middle

age documents under the name of Cast rum Tarasco,

Pliny's Tarusconienses, or whatever may be the true

name, are enumerated among the Oppida Latin of

Narbonensis. [G. L.]

TASCIACA, a town in Gallia, placed by the

Table between Avaricum (Dourgts) and Caesaro-

duiium (Tours). The first station from Avaricum

is Oaoris, supposed to be Chabris on the Cher,

and the next is Tasciaca, supposed to be Tezte, also

on the Cher. Hut the number xxiiii. placed in the

Table at the name of Tasciaca, which number

should represent the distance from Chabru to Tezee,

is nearly the distance between Tezee and Tours,

mid accordingly there is some error here. The

Table gives no distance between Tasciaca and

Caesarodunum. (D'Anville, Notice; Ukert, Gal-

lien) [G. L.]

TASCOXI is the name uf a Gallic people in the

Narbonensls, mentioned by Pliny (iii. 4), as the

name is read in five MSS. There is a small river

7"fscon or 'J'escou. which flows into the Tarn, near

Montauban, D'Anville. quotes a life of S. Tbso-

dard, archbishop of Narbonne, which speaks of this

river I s called Tasoo by the people of that part and

as the limit between tlie territories of the Tolosani,

or people of Toulouse, and the Caturcenses, or peo­

ple of Cohort. Tins is a valuable passage, for it

shows how far north the Narbonensis, to which the

territory of Toulouse belonged, extended in this

part of its frontier; and it also confirms the conjec­

ture about the northern limits of the iluteni Provin-

ciales [BuTKNl], who were also included in the

Narbonensis. [G. L.]

TASTA. [Oath.]

TATTA LACUS (h Tarra), a large salt lake on

the frontiers between Lycaonia and Galatia; it had

originally belonged to Phrygia, but was afterwards

annexed to Lycaonia. Its waters were so impreg­

nated with brine, that any substance dipped into it,

was immediately incrusted with a thick coat of salt;

even birds flying near the surface had their wings

moistened with the saline particles, so as to become

incapable of rising into the air, and to be easily

caught. (Strab. xii. p. 60S; Plin. xxxi. 41, 45; Dios

corid. v. 126.) Stephanos By*. (5. r. Borfsior) speaks

of a salt lake in Phrygia, which he calls Attaea

("Att£uci), near which there was a town called

Botieum, and which is probably the same as Lak

Tatta. The Turks now call the lake Tuzfa, and it

Still provides all the surrounding country with salt.

(Leake, Asia Minor, p. 70.) [L. S.]

TAUA. [Taum.]

TAUA (Tava, Steph. B. s. v.; Taova, Ptol. iv. 5

§ 50; Tabs, lUn. Ant. p. 153), a town in Lower

Aegypt, situated on the left bank of the Canopic

arm of the Nile, S. of the city of Naucratis. It was

the capital of the small Phthemphuthic Nome (Plin.

v. 9. s. 9), and is supposed to be represented by

the present Thaonah. (D'Anville, Atemoire sur

VEgypU, vol. i. p. 82.) [W. li. P.]

TAUCIII'RA or TKUCHI'KA (TavXuPa, Herod,

iv. 171, et alii; Te^xcipo, Hierocl, p. 732; Plin. v.

5. 8. 5, &c), a town on the coast of Cyrenaica,

founded by Cyrene. It lay 200 Stadia W. of Plo-

lemais. Under tlie Ptolemies it obtained the name

of Arsinoe. (Strab. xvii. p. 836; Mek, LS; Ha,

/. <*.) At a later period it became a Reran oAwr

(Tub. Pad.), and was fortified by Jusucaa. (rV

cop. de Acd. vi. 3.) Tauchira was parUroorir seat

for the worship of Cybele. in honour of wfeai a

annual festival was celebrated. (Syncs. Ep. 1)

is the same town erroneously written Taprjte

Piodorus (xviii. 20). It is still called Totimn. (CI

Delia Cella, Viagg. p. 193; Pacho, Fej

184.) [T.H.D.]

TA'VIUM (Taovov, Toiwr) or TAVU, s1

in the central part of eastern Gilatia. at tarn

tance from the eastern bank of the river Bahv«

the chief town of the Galatian tribe of tat Tn

and a place of considerable commercial i

being the point at which five or six of the frest n

met. (Plin. v. 42; Strab. xii. p. 567: Fait 4

§ 9; Steph. B. /. v. *A7*b,«; HierocL p. OfcJ

Ant. pp. 201, 203.) It contained 1 teaafci~*

colossal bronze statue of Zeus. Leake (Asia I

p. 311) is strongly inclined to believe tint Tsk

occupies the site of ancient Taviam; but V

(Researches, i. p. 379, &c.) and most «ear|

graphers, with much more probability, rrrxril

ruins of BogkoM Kvtui, 6 leagues to the 1

of Jazgat or Juzghat, as the remains flf'

They are situated on the slope of lofty I

rocks of limestone, some of which axe aAxnsis

sculptures in relief. There are aLo the I

of an immense building, which are belief 1

remains of the temple of Zeus. (Coup. I"

in tlie Journal of the Roy. Gtogr. Soc rril

74, foil.; Cramer, Asia Minor, ii. p.98.)

TAIJLA'NTII (TouAo>t««, PloL in. ll||

people of Roman Illyria, in the neisX

Kpidamnns and Dyrrachium. Ini

were a powerful tribe, possessing several c

governed by their own kings, but

were reduced to subjection by the kings af 1

and at the time when the Romans wacedaat

Teuta they had sunk into insignificant*.

Thucyd. i. 24; Arrian, Anah. L 5; aUa,I

Liv. xlv. 26; Plin. iii. 22. s. 26.)

that they had a met hi" J of preparine: 1

honev. (Mir. Ausc t. ii. p. 716.) [T-l

TAUM, TAUS, or TAVA (T««*frx"*J

ii. 3. § 5), a bay on the £. coast of Britaara I

(Tac. Apr. 22.) Now Frith of lam [T-l

TAUM (AD), a place in the SE. ef V"

Komana, in the territory of the Ioeti (Tat J

Probably Yarmouth. [T.fi.1

TAUNUS MONS, a range of hilb n 1

Germany, beginning near the river Nker (St

and running northward till they reach ths [

where the Moenus (.1/a«a) joins tt«

(Pomp. Mela, iii. 3; Tac, Am*. I 56* J

This range of hills still bears its ana"

though it is sometimes simply called lati

is, the Height, Taunus being pn-baUy ta* I

word Dun or Daun, which signifies a I

various places along tuis rang* af

inscriptions have been fonnd, in which (

nenses are mentioned, from which it may -< -

that there once existed a town of tb* 1

Taunus. (Orelli, InscripL nos. IS1,4*SL^

Wilhelm, Gmnanien^ p. 44.) [Li

TAUKA'NIA, a town of Campama.

only by Pliny (iii. 5. s. 9) as having ■ bal

tirely disappeared, like Stabiae, He a3tr4>a

to its position. The name of Taaraina{

is found also in the older editions at SesfftaVaS

