433 KIXUS. NIXUS.

or 'E<r6pax of tlio LXX., Rawlinson, As. Journ.

1850), (is in //iW, xx. 232; /W. Homeric, vi. 145;

Virg. ^en- v. 127; Juven. x. 259, &c. Ii is

therefore, perhaps, less remarkable, that though Ni­

neveh had riu early in history ceased to be a city of

any importance, the tradition of its former existence

should remain in its own country till a compara­

tively recent period. Thus, as we have seen, Tacitus

and Animianus allude to it, while coins exist (of the

class termed by numismatists Greek Imperial) struck

uniler tiie Roman emperors Claudius, Trajan, Maxi­

mums frnd Gordianus Pius, proving that, during

that period, there was a Roman colony established in

Assyria, bearing the name of Niniva ClaudioiHihs,

and, in all probability, occupying its site. (Sestini,

Miw.de Chaudoir, tab. ii. tig. 12, Clas. Central, p.

159.) In later times the name is still extant.

Thus, Ibn Alliir (quoting from Btladfteri, in

the annals of those year-) speaks of the forts of

Nin/iwi to the cast, and of Mosul to the west, of

tin- Tigris, in tlie campaigns of Abd-allah Ibn Mo'-

ctomer, a. H. 1G (a. d. 037), and of Otbeh Ibn

Farkud, A. H. 20 (a. d. 641). (Rawlinson, As.

Journ. 1850.) Again. Benjamin of Tndela, in tlic

twelfth century, speaks of it as opposite to Mosul

{Travels, ^ 91. ed. Asher, 1840) ; and Abulfaraj

notices it in Ids Hist. Dynast (pp. 404—441) under

the name of Ninuc (cf. also his Chroniron, p. 404).

Lastly, Assemani, in his account of the mission of

Salukah, the patriarch of the Chaldueans, to Rome,

in A. i>. 1552, when describing Mosul, says of it,

M a qua ex altera rip-ie parte abest Ninive bis nolle

passibus" {Blhl Orient, i. p. 524). In the same

work of Assemani are many notices of Nineveh, as

a Christian bishoprick, first under the metropolitan

of Mosul, and subsequently under the bishop of

Assyria and Adiabene (BiU. Orient, vol. ii. p. 459,

vol.'iii. pp. 104, 209, 344, &c).

We have already noticed under AssvniA the chief

points recorded in the Bible and in the classical

historians relative to the history of Nineveh, and

have stated that it is impossible entirely to reconcile

the various conflicting statements <>f ancient authors.

It only remains to mention here, as briefly as pos­

sible, the general results of the remarkable, dis­

coveries which, within the last few years, have

thrown a flood of light upon this most obscure part

of aneient history, and have, at the same time,

aftVded the most complete and satisfactory confirma­

tion of those notices of Assyrian history which have

been preserved in the Bible. The names of all the

Assyrian kin^s mentioned in the Bible, with the

exception, perhaps, of Shalmatieser, who, however,

occurs under his name in Isaiah, Sargon, are now

clearly read upon the Assyrian records, besides a

great many others whose titles have not as yet been

identified with those in the lists preserved by the

Greek and Roman chronologists.

ill. It is well known that in the neighbourhood

of Mosul travellers had long observed some remark­

able mounds, resembling small hills; and that Mr,

Rich had, thirty years ago, called attention to one

called Koyunjik, in which fragments of sculpture and

pottery had been frequently discovered. In the year

1843, M. B.'tta. the French consul at Mosul, at the

suggestion of Mr. Layard, commenced Ins excavations,

—first, with little success, at Koyunjik, and then,

with much greater good fortune, in a mound called

hliorsabad, a few miles NE. of Mosul. To M.

lJ'»;t:i*> success at Khorsabod the French owe all

the Assyrian monuments in the collection of the

Louvre. In 1845, Mr. Layard begin to d\j rote

the still greater mound of .Ximrud, about 17 n.:U

S. of Mosul; and was so in rewarded by the

sive and valuable collection now in the Britisi M.-

st'um. These researches were continued by ilr.

Layard during 1846 and [art of 1847. ar.j tpa

during 1850 and 1851 ; together with a fir m**

satisfactory examination of tiie remains.it K'-yuxjit

than had been made by M. Botta. Some uu^r

sites, too, in the nci.L;hbourho"d were partiillT ri-

plored; but, though of undoubted As-yri.ui oi:^a,

they yielded little compared with the greater roundi

at yimrud, Khorsabad, and Koyunjik, It w<Ak

be foreign to the object of this w.»rk to enter m>

any details of the sculptured monuments wb:ch hi??

been brought to light. A vast collection, bowmr,

of inscriptions have been disinterred ouring tat

same excavations; and from these we have t«3

enabled by the labours of Colonel Rawlinson and

Hineks to give names to many of the tocJrua

which have been explored, and to ree<.'iL»trurt u*

history of Assyria and Babylonia r»n & touixiisa

more secure than the fragment* of CteMi* «'it

liistcry of Herodotus. It is also nere5ssry to

state that very extensive researches have t^i

made during 1854 in Southern Babyk^a t»

Messrs. Loft us and Taylor in mounds now ca^J

Warka and Muqueyer; and that fa>ra the* ill

other excavations Colonel Rawlinson lias rectrtrl I

great number of inscribed tablets, whieii bar* liiej

hi:n materially in drawing up a pre* is of theetrL»l

Babylonian and Assyrian histoiy. Muqutytr a

identifies as the sate of the celebrated "Lr "f t*

Chaldces." From these various sources, Co.a"

Kawlinson has concluded that the true Nu^tb a

represented by the mounds ophite to Mosul um

probably by that one which bears the local t»2*<

the ftabi Tunas; that tliis city was built **s(

the middle of the thirteenth century u. c; a:«i it*

from it, the name of Nineveh was in alter tna

transferred to several other sites in the DeicLbcai

hood. The groat work of Ximrttd (the seat <

Mr. Layard's chief labours), which it was mum

on the lirst extensive discoveries, to supp«

the real Nineveh, is proved beyond question by U-fl

Col. Kawlinson and l>r. Hincks to have been

by the Assyrians Ctdah, or Calach. We olm

doubt but that this is the Calah of Gtlieah (x. it

and the origin of the Cal.uhene of Strabo (r~ \

529, xvi. p. 735), and of the Calacine of

(vi. 1. § 2). From the inscriptions, it may 1

gathered that it was founded about the BkJdift'

tiie twelfth century n.c*. The great ruin of A*>*

sabdd (the scene of the French excavatsooa),

has also been thought by some to Imve formed pi

of Nineveh, Colonel Rawlinson has ascertained

have been built by the Sargon of Isaiah (ix. 11

the Shalmaneser of 2 Kings, xvii. 3,—abou: tl

year B. c. 720; and he has shown from Yaeut'h

it retained the name of Sorghum down to the til

of the Muhammedan conquest. A**y**7»£. *

principal ruin op]>osite to Mosul, and aujwcucf X

iXabi Yunas} we know from tiie inscriptions to m

been constructed by Sennacherib, the sun ed Shi

inaneser, about b. C TOO. The whole of th» 4

trict has been surveyed with great can? and mu>v

r.ess by Capt. Jones, within the last few yeiirs-; i

his account, with three elaborate majo, tai Ki

published in the Journal of the Asiatic

1855. From this we learn that the wholeccooH

of Koyunjik and the Nabi Yunas (which tf o

