NEMAUSUS.

4]5 KEMAUSUS.

trt. *hi<h may probably commemorate the conquest

tf Egypt; oq the other are two heads, supposed to

br Ai^rotixs and Agrippa, with the inscription imp.

i medal has also been found in

COr5 OP 2IEMAU8U9.

contain* many memorials of its Roman

Tfae *uip4)itbe&tre, which is in good

j is lamer than that of Verona in Italy;

; a fe.nr.iMl that it wonld contain 17,000

% Hands in an open space, cleared of all

It has not the massive

of the amphitheatre of

i complete. A man may make

I on the flat which runs round the upper

far abont ooe-sixth of the circuit,

nice and the flat are broken down.

is about 437 EnglUh feet,

the thickness of the walls. The

[fcngfct on the ontaide is nearly 70 English

i exterior face of the building consists of a

: onary, and a atory ahore, which is crowned

an sixty well

arches in the ground story, all of the Fame size

except four entrances, larger than the rest, which

correspond to the four cardinal points. These arches

open on a gallery, which runs all round the interior

of the building. The story above has also sixty

arches. All along the circumference of the attic

there are consoles, placed at equal distances, two

ami two, and pierced in the middle by round holes.

These holes received the poles which supported an

awning to shelter the spectators from the sun and

rain. When it was complete, there were thirty rows

of seats in the interior. At present there are only

seventeen. The stones of the upper seats are of

enormous dimensions, some of them 12 feet long,

and 2 feet in width.

The temple now called the Maiton Carre'e is a

rparallelogram on the plan, about 76 English feet

long, and 40 wide. It is what is called pseudo-

peripteral, with thirty Corinthian fluted pillars, all

of which are engaged in the walls, except six on

the face and two on each side of the front portico,

ten in all. The portico has, consequently, a con­

siderable depth compared with the width. The

columns are ten diameters and a quarter in height.

The temple is highly enriched in a good style.

Saltier (1758) attempted to prove that this

temple was dedicated to C. and L. Caesar, the sons

of Agrippa by Julia the daughter of Augustus.

But M. Auguste I'e'let has within the present cen -

tury shown that it was dedicated to M. Aureliua

and L. Verus, The excavations which have been

made round the Maison Carrie since 1821 show

that it was once surrounded by a colonnade, which

seems to have been the boundary of a forum, within

which the temple was placed. The Mainon Carree,

after having passed through many hands, and been

applied to many purposes, is now a museum of

painting and antiquities. Arthur Young {Travels

in France, 2nd ed. vol. i. p. 48) says "that the

Afaison Carrie is beyond comparison the most light,

elegant, and pleasing building 1 ever beheld.*

Nobody will contradict this.

I fnnntain of Nrmausus, which Auso-

i (Ordo Aoft. tVA., Banti?ala)—

I potn, ritrea non luce Nemausus

*vi iiirfe are some traces of the ancient  
pkna, though the whole is a modern restora-

hal the great snpply of water to Xemausus

called the Pont du Card,

by a

subterraneous passago in the side of the rock of the

fountain. A building called the Temple of Diana,

and a large edifice called Tmtr Magne (Turrit

Magna), which appears to have been a sepulchral

monument, the gate of Augustus, and the gate

called of France, are the chief remaining monuments

of Nemausus.

The noblest Roman monument in France is the

aqueduct called the Pont du Card, which is between

three and four leagues from Ntmes. Over this aque-

