T* ITALIA ITALIA.

•*«. 'n tt-c 43. distinctly uses the phrase of <palti*g

/•alf. when be crosses the Alps. (Cic ad/am. xi. 20.)

S» a. v. S. th Caesar and Cicero, in his Philippic*, re-

peateiiy uc the name of Italy in the wider and more

g'-i^ral sense, thongh the necessity of distinguishing

tue province of Cisalpine Ganl, lead* the latter fre-

r.ir-rlj to observe the official distinction. (Caes.

b. G. t. I, vi. 44, vii. 1; Cic. PhiL iv. 4. t. 12.)

Bat. indeed, had not this n*e of the nam* been al­

ready common, before it came to be officially adopted,

thit circumstance alone would scarcely hare ran-'

6rr-\ it so familiar as we find it in the Latin writers

of the Angustan age. Virgil, for instance, in cele-

bratmg the prai.>es of Italy, never thought of ex-

rl iding from that appellation the plains of Cisalpine

trml, or the lakes at the foot of the Alps. From

the time, indeed, when the rights of Roman citizens

wi» extended t) all the Cisalpine Ganls, no real

distinction any longer subsisted between the different

part* of Italy; but Cisalpine Gaul still formed a

separate province under I). Brutus in B.C. 43 (Cic. J

Phil. iii. 4, 5, ir. 4, v. 9, &c), and it is probable,

that the anion of that province with Italy took place

in tile fallowing year. Dion Cassius speaks of it, in |

It r. 41, as an already established arrangement. (Dion i

('as*. xlriii. 12: Savigny, Verm. ScAr. iii. p. 318.)

( rotn the time of Augustas onwards, the name of i

Iti'.i* continned to be applied in the same sense

thron?hoat the period of the ltoman empire, though j

with Mime slight modifications of its frontiers on the i

side of the Alps; but daring the last ages of the

Western empire, a singular change took place, by j

• lull the name of Italia came to be specially ap-'

plied (in official language at least) to the northern \

part of what we now call Italy, comprising the fire

province* of Aemilia, Flaminia, Liguria, Vcnctia.

and Istria, togetiier with the Cottian and Rii.ifli.in

Alps, and thus exclwting nearly the whole of what!

had been included under the name in the days of

Cicero. This usage probably arose from the division

of the whole of Italy for administrative purposes into

two great districts, the one of which was placed

voder an officer called the " Vicarius Urbis Romae," j

while the other, or northern portion, was subject to |

the " Vicarius luliae." (A'o». big. it 18; Gothofr. ,

ad OkL Theod. xi. 1, leg. 6; Niebubr, vol. i. p. 21.)

The practice was confirmed for a time by the cir­

cumstance that this part of Italy became the neat of

the lyrfnbard monarchy, which assumed the title of

the kingilom of Italy (' Regnum Italiae "); but the

ancient signification still prevailed, and the name of

Italy was applied throughout the middle ages, as it

still is at the present day, within the boundaries

established by Augustus.

The other names n|i]<licd by ancient writers, espe­

cially by the Latin and later Greek poets, to the

Italian peninsula, may be very briefly disposed of.

Irionyrdus tells us that in very remote ages Italy

was railed by the Greeks Hesperia, or Ausonia, and

by the natives Saturnia. (Dionvs. i. 35.) Of these

three names, Hksi-khia ('Eo»«pia), or "the Land

of the West," was evidently a mere vague apfiellation,,

employM in the infancy of geographical discovery,

ami which was sometimes limited to Italy, some­

times used in a much wider sense as comprising the

whole West of Europe, including Spain. [His- |

TAMA.] But tliere is no evidence of its having .

hern employed in the more limited sense, at a very I

early period. The name is not found at all in j

Homer or Hesiod; but, according to the Iliac Table, I

Stcsichorus represented Aeneas as departing Iran |

Troy for Baptria, where in all probability Italy is

meant; though it is very uncertain whether the pet

conducted Aeneas to Loftam. (Schwegler, Him.

Geeeh. voL L p. 298.) But even in the days of

Stesicborus the appellation was probably one confined

to the ports and logographers. At a later prn.il

we car* trace it as used by the Alexandrian purtf,

from whom in all probability it passed to the Kt-

mans, and was adopted, as we know, by hnnins. x\

well as by Virgil and the writers of the Augustan

age. ( Agatbyllua, ap. Dicmjt. i. 49; Apollon. Kb-«L

iii. 311; Ennius. Amu. Fr. p. 12; Virg. Am. i.

530. iii. 185, Ac.)

The nante of AtsnxiA, on the contrary, was one

derived originally from one of the races which inha­

bited the Italian peninsula, the Aunuici of the

Romans, who were known to the Greeks as the Ao-

sones. These Ausonians were a tribe of Opkan or

Oscan race, and it is probable that the name of

Ansonia was at first applied much as that of Opicia

or Opica was by Thucydides and other writers of the

fifth century ft. c But, as applied to the whole

peninsula of Italy, the name is, w> far a> we know,

purely poetical; nor can it be traced farther bask

than the Alexandrian writers Lycophron and A|»llo-

nius Rhodins, who employed it familiarly (as did

the Latin poets in imitation of them) as a poetical

equivalent for Italy. [Arsosts.]

As for the name of Sattrma, though it is found

in a pretended Greek oracle cited by DionyHias

(Xaroprfav alar, Dion vs. i. 19), it may well be

doubted whether it was ever an ancient apprllatkei

at all. Its obvious derivation from the name of the

Ij*tin god Saturnus proves it to have been of native

Italian, and not of Greek, invention, and probably

this was the only authority that Dionysiua had fur

saying it was the native name of Italy. Bat all the

traditions of the Roman mythology connect Satumus

so closely with Latium, that it seems almost certain

the name of Satumia (if it was ever more than a

pmtical fabrication) originally belonged to Latium

only, and was thence gradually extended by the

liotnans to the rest of Italy. Knnius seems to liavo

used the phrase of M Saturnia terra " only in refeivme

to Litium; while Virgil applies it to the whole of

Italy. (Knnius.ao. Varr. L. L. v. 42; Virg- Georg.

ii. 173.) It is never used in either scum' by 1-stin

prose writers, though several authors stale, as Dn»-

nysiui does, that it was the ancient name of Italy.

(Festus, v. Saturnia, p. 322; Justin, xliii. 1.)

II. But'.M>AltlKS AND PllVStCAL GSOOHAIMIT.

There are few countries of which the boundon**

are more clearly marked out by nature than trss»> if

Italy. It is welt described by one of its modern

poets as the land

•' Ch' Apennin parte e 1 mar circonda e I\Alpe;"

and this single line nt once enumerates all the prin­

cipal physical features that impart to the country ita

peculiar physiognomy. Italy consist* of a great

peninsula, projecting in a SF.. direction into the

Mediterranean sea, and bounded on the W. by the

portions of that sea commonly known as Uie Tyrrhe­

nian and Sicilian seas, but comprised by the Romans

under the name of M«rc lnferum, or the Lower hea;

on the E. by the Adriatic, or the Upper Sea (Mate

Superum), as it was commonly termed by the Ko-

niana; while to tlie N. it spreads out into a broad

expanse, funning, as it were, the base or rret by

which it adheres to the continent of Europe, and

