NEMAUSUS. NEMAUSUS. 415

tree, which may probably commemorate the conquest

of Egypt; on the other are two heads, supposed to

be Augustus and Agrippa, witli the inscription imp.

r. p. divi. v. This medal has also been found in

other places. It is figured below.

COfit OP NEMAUSUS.

Sine* contains many memorials of its Roman

splendour. The amphitheatre, which is in good

preservation, is larger than that of Verona in Italy;

and it is estimated that it would contain 17,000

prims. It stands in an open space, cleared of all

buildings and obstructions. It has not the massive

and imposing appearance of the amphitheatre of

Aria; but it is more complete. A man may make

the circuit on the flat which runs round the upper

story, except for about one-sixth of the circuit,

there the cornice and the flat are broken down.

The greater diameter is about 437 Englith feet,

which includes the thickness of the walls. The

exterior height on the outside is nearly 70 English

fert. The exterior face of the building consists of a

(round story, and a story above, which is crowned

by an attic. There are sixty well proportioned

arches in the ground story, all of the same sizo

except four entrances, larger than the rest, which

correspond to the four cardinal points. These arches

open on a gallery, which runs all round the interior

of the building. The story above has also sixty

arches. All along the circumference of the atliu

thero are consoles, placed at equal distances, two

and two, and pierced in the middle by round hides.

These holes received the poles which supported an

awning to shelter the spectators from the sun and

rain. When it was complete, there were thirty rows

of seats in the interior. At present there are only

seventeen. The stones of the upper seats are of

enormous dimensions, some of them 12 feet long,

and 2 feet in width.

The temple now called the Maison Carree is a

parallelogram on the plan, about 76 English feet

long, and 40 wide. It is what is called pseudo-

peripteral, with thirty Corinthian fluted pillars, all

of which are engaged in the walls, except six on

tho face and two on each side of tho front portico,

ten in all. The portico has, consequently, a con­

siderable depth compared with the width. The

columns are ten diameters and a quarter in height.

The temple is highly enriched in a good style.

Se'guier (1758) attempted to prove that this

temple was dedicated to C. and L. Caesar, the sona

of Agrippa by Julia the daughter of Augustus.

But M. Auguste l'e'lct has within the present cen -

tury shown that it was dedicated to M. Aurelius

and L. Verus. The excavations which have been

made round the Maison Carree since 1821 show

that it was once surrounded by a colonnade, which

seems to have been the boundary of a forum, within

which the temple was placed. The Maison Carree,

after having passed through many hands, and been

applied to many purposes, is now a museum of

painting and antiquities. Arthur Young (Travel*

in France, 2nd ed. vol. i. p. 48) says "that the

Maison Carree is beyond comparison tiie most light,

elegant, and pleasing building I ever beheld."

Nobody will contradict this.

TEMPLE AT NEMAUSUS, now

The famous fountain of Nemausus, which Auso-

nins mentions (0ro!o A'oi. Urb., Burdigala)—

"Xon Apmrus potu, vitrea non luce Nemausus

Purior"—

•till exists; and there are some traces of the ancient

construction, though the whole is a modern restora­

tion. But the great supply of water to Nemausus

was by the iqoeduct now called the Pont du Gard,

•od it is sail that this acqueduct terminated by a

called the maison carr£e.

subterraneous passage in the side of the rock of the

fountain. A building called the Temple of Diana,

and a large edifice called Toitr Mntjne (Tunis

Magna), which appears to have been a sepulchral

monument, the gate of Augustus, and the gate

called of France, are the chief remaining monuments

of Nemausus.

The noblest Roman monument in France is the

aqueduct called the Pont du Gard, which is between

three and four leagues from A'ftne*. Over this aque-

