1202 VI-11. vat

probably comprehended the Vatican and Janicnlan

hills, and became the seat of the 5th I: . nan tribe,

the Komilia or Romulia. (Varr. L. L. v. 9. § 65,

filiill.; Paul. ap. Fest. s. v. Romitlia Trib.)

This peace seems to have lasted about GO or 70

years, when war again broke out between the Vei

entines and Romans in the reign of Tuilus Hostilius,

and this time also on account of Fidenae, which ap­

pears to have become a Roman colony after its cap­

ture by Romulus. The cause of the war was the

treacherous conduct of the i'idenates during the

Roman struggle with Alba. When called to account,

they refused to give any explanation of their conduct,

and procured the assistance of the Veientines. Tuilus

crossed the AlUO (7Wwom) with a large army, and

the battle which took place at a spot between that

river and the town of Fidenae was the most obstinate

Hiid bloody which had yet been recorded in the Roman

annals. Tuilus, however, gained a signal victory

over the Fidenates and their allies the Veientines.

The battle is remarkable for the vows made by Tui­

lus, of twelve Salian priests, and of temples to Pavor

and Pallor. These were the second set of Salians,

or those attached to the worship of Quiiinus [cf.

Roma, p. 8*29]; and the appropriateness of the vow

will be perceived when we Consider that the Fidenates,

in their answer to the Romans, had asserted that all

their engagements towards I tome had expired on the

death of that deified hero. (Liv. i. 27; Dionvs. US,

23,.sqq.)

The war was renewed under Ancus Mareius by

forays on both sides, which, however, seem to have

been begun by the Veientines. Ancus overthrew

them in two pitched battles, the last of which was

decisive. The Veientines were obliged to surrender

all the tract on the right bank of the Tiber called

the Silva Maesia. The Roman dominion was now

extended as far as the sea; and in order to secure

these conquests, Ancus founded the colony of Ustia

at the mouth of the Tiber. (Liv. i. 33; Dionvs.

lii. 41.)

The next time that we find the Veientines in col­

lision with Home, they had to contend with a leader

of their own nation. L. Tarquinius, an emigrant

from Tarquinii to Rome, had distinguished himself

in the wars of Ancus Mareius against Veil, and was

now in possession of the Roman sovereignty. The

Veientines, however, on this occasion did not stand

alone, but were assisted by the other Etruscan cities,

who com plained of insults and injuries received from

Taiquin. The Veientines, ns usual, were discomfited,

and so thoroughly, that they did not dare to leave

their city, but were the helpless spectators of the

devastation committed on their lands by the Romans.

The war was terminated by Tarquin's brilliant vic­

tory at Kretus, which enabled him to claim the

sovereignty of all Ktruria, leaving, however, the differ­

ent cities in the enjoyment of their own rights and

privileges. It was on this occasion that Tarquin is

said to have introduced at Rome the institution of

the twelve lie tors and their fasces, emblems of the

servitude of the twelve Etruscan cities, as well

as the other Ktruscan iusignia of royalty. (Dionys.

iii. 57: Flor. i. 5.) It should be observed that on

this subject the accounts are very various ; and some

have even doubted the whole story of this Etruscan

conquest, because Livy does not mention it. That

historian, however, when he speaks of the resumption

of the war under Servian Tullius, includes the other

Etruscans with the Veientines, as parties to the truce

which had expired (•• bellum cum Veientibus (jam

enim indntiae exierant) aUUq*e 1

i. 42), although the Etruscans had not i

Corned in the last Veientine war be tal I

(Cf. Dionys. iv. 27.) This war under Serin Tata

was the last waged with the VeieotiQfi 4snf ai

regal period of Rome.

When the second Tarqnin was expelled for La*

the Etruscans endeavoured to restart him. Vwes"

Tarquinii were the two most fbrnH aaei air

league formed for this purpose. Tee ant ask

which took place near the Silvia Ann, «fi had?

but indecisive, though the Romans cUised asanas

victory. Rut the Etruscans having bbumei t»

assistance of Porsena, Lars of Clasom, tat sasss

were completely worsted, and, at tbe pew

ensued, were compelled to restore to the Vaanaa

all the territory which had been wresled fro taa

by Romulus and Ancus Mareius. Tha, nmss;

Porsena shortly afterwards restored to the sassa,

out of gratitude for the hospitality whici ta* sa1

displayed towards the remnant of the Etrtscsf inr

after the defeat of hi- son A rone at Arias, (bit

6—15; Dionys. v. 14, sqq.; Pint PwiL II)

The Veientines could Ul brock being drpneJe* i

this territory; but, whilst the influence of Pcneuss1

his family prevailed in the Etruscan Leag*c,taw»

mained quiet. After his death the wsraraiasnaesS.

B. c. 483. For a year or two it was a kiniefsssvl

warfare characterised by mutual depred*i*m las

B.C. 481, after a general congress *f the Etrwasu

great number of volunteers joined the Voeanmaa

matters began to assume a more serines sepal. ■

the first encounters the Romans were awaooeafti 1

chiefly through a mutiny of the soldiers. TUyssa

to have been disheartened by then' ill sacem; nar

army was inferior in number to thai of the Yeassssv

and they endeavoured to decline an eneagecesL I*

the insults of the enemy incensed the ffiocaaa asnwv

to such a degree that they insisted en brie? W *

battle. The contest was long and Hasty, tsi

Etruscans at one time were in ptaaeaiion of tatsV

man camp; but it was recovered by the *»ar *"

Titus Siccius. The Romans lost

officers, amongst whom were the coasol

Q. Eabius, who had been twice rossal,

with many tribunes and centurions. It 1

drawn battle; yet the Romans claimed tht I

because during the night tbe Etruscans i"

their camp, which was sacked by tbe lie

following day. But the surviving oonss

Vibulanus, on his return to Rune, lefueec

and abdicated his office, the dalies of«

prevented from discharging by the severity ef as

wounds. (Dionvs. ix. 5, sqq.: Liv. u. 4S—*'•)

Shortly after this, the Veienlinss, findinrtaatd

were unable to cope with tbe Kenans sa tar ■

held, adopted a most annoTing system af i

When the Roman army appeared, they anal I

selves up within their walls; but no

the legions retired, than they can* forte §M»

the country np to the very gates of P

Fabian family, which had given a> 1

Rome, and which had taken soj

the late war, now came for

hers the commonwealth from this 1

ance. The whole family appeared k

and by the mouth of their chief, Cease Fsi

consul for the third time, d«ki*i, thai, as ai

tinnal rather than a large gtuni wm re^c^

the Veientine war. they were willing t*'

the duty and to maintain the majaitr «f tfce 1

