158 LEONTINL LEONTINI.

identical with Nahr-ed'D&mur, half way between

Beyrut and Saula, Lion's town and river should be

looked tor south of this, and north of Sidon. The

only it ream in this interval is XaJtr-tl-Auljf, called

also in its upper part A'oAr Baruk, which L>r. Rohin-

son has shown to be the Ilostrenus Fluviu*. [Bo-

8Ti:kni*s.] This, therefore, Mannert seemed to have

sufficient authority for identifying with the Leontes.

Hut the existence of the Litany—a name supposed

to be similar to the /pontes — between Sidon and

Tyre, is thought to countenance the conjecture thnt

Ptolemy has misplaced the Leontes, which is in fact

identical with the anonymous river which Strabo

mentions near Tyre (p. 7.r>8), which can be no other

than the Litany (Robinson, Bib. lies. vol. Ui. pp. 408

—410, and notes). No great reliance, however, can

be placed on the similarity of names, as the form

Leonh* is merely the inflexion of A«wvt which was

not likely to be adopted in Arabic. It is far more

probable that the classical geographer in this, as in

other cases, translated the Semitic name. [See

Cams and Lycxh.] Besides which the Litany

does not retain thin name to the coast, but is here

called Nahr-el-Katimiyeh, the Casimeer of Maun-

drell (March 20, p. 48; Ucland, J'alaestina, pp. 290,

291.) [G. W.]

LEONTI'NI (_t\*ovrtPot: Kth. Aeoirovoj: Ltn-

tint), a city of Sicily, situated between Syracuse

and Catana, but about eight miles from the sea-

coast, near a considerable lake now known as the

Jjoijo di LentinL The name of Leontini is evidently

an ethnic form, signifying properly the people rather

than the city itself; but it teems to have been the

only one in nse, ami is employed both by Greek and

Latin writers (declined as a plural adjective*), with

the single exception of Ptolemy, who calls the city

A*6vrtoy or Leontium. (l'tol. iii. 4. § 13.) But

it is clear, from the modern form of the name,

Lentini^ that the form Leontini, which we find

universal in writers of the best ages, continued in

common u.-*e down to a late period. All ancient

writers concur in representing Leontini as a Greek

colony, and one of those of Chalcidian origin, being

founded by Chalcidic colonists from Naxos, in the

same year with Catana, and six years after the

parent city of Naxos, b,c 730. (Thuc, vi. 3; Scyinn.

Ch. 2S3; Died. xii. 53, xiv. 14.) According to

Thucydides, the site had been previously occupied

by Siculi, bat these were expelled, and the city be.

came essentially a Greek colony. We know little of

its early history; but, from the strength of its po­

rtion and the extreme fertility of its territory

(renowned in all ages for its extraordinary richness),

it appears to have early attained to great prosperity,

and became one of the most considerable cities in the

E. of Sicily. The rapidity of its rise is attested by

the fact that it was able, in its turn, to found the

colony of Euboea (Strab. vi. p. 272; Scymn. Cb.

287), apparently at a very early period. It U

probable, also, that the three Chalcidic cities, Leon­

tini, Naxos, and Catana, from the earliest period

adopted the same line of policy, and made common

cause against their Dorian neighbours, as we find

them constantly doing in biter times.

The government of leontini was an oligarchy, bat

it fell at one time, like so many other cities of Sicily,

under the yoke of a despot of the name of Panaetius,

who is said to have been the first instance of the

* Polybius uses the fuller phrase if rir A«or-  
fivatv w6\u (vii. 6).

kind in Sicily. His usurpation is referred by F.u-

sebius to the 43rd Olympiad, or o. c. 608. (Arut-

Pol v. 10, 12; Kuseb. Ann. vol. ii. p. 109.)

Leontini appears to have retained its independ­

ence till after it. c. 498, when it fell under the yoke

of Hippocrates, tyrant of Gela (Herod, vii. 154):

after which it seems to have passed in succession

under the authority of Gelon and Hierun of Syra­

cuse; as we find that, in B.C. 476, the Utter despot,

having expelled the inhabitants of Catana and Naxos

from their native cities, which he peopled with new

colonists, established the exile* at Leontini. tin- pos­

session of which they shared with its former citizens.

(Diod. xi. 49.) We find no special mention of

Leontini in the revolutions that followed tbe death

of Hieron; but there is no doubt that it regained its

independence after the expulsion of Thrasybulus,

n. C. 466, and the jieriod which followed w;»s pro­

bably that of the greatest prosperity of Leontini. as

well as the other Chalcidic cities of Sicily. (Diod.

xi. 72, 76.) But its proximity to Syracuse became

the source of fresh troubles to Leontini. In B-c

427 the Leon tines found themselves engaged in hos­

tilities with their more powerful neighbour, and,

being unable to cope single-handed with the Syra-

sans, they applied for suppo:t not only to their

Chalcidic brethren, bat to the Athenians also, who

sent a fleet of twenty ships to their assistance, under

the command of Laches and Cbaroeadee, (Tliue. iii

S6 ; Diod. xii. 53 ) The operations of the Athenian

fleet under Ladies and his successors I'ythodurue

and Eurymedon were, however, confined to the part

of Sicily adjoining the Straits of Mes&ana: tbe

Leon tines received no direct support from them,

but, after the war had continued for some years,

they were included in the general pacification of

Gela, b. c 424, which fur a time secured them in

the possession of their independence. (Thuc it. 58,

65.) This, however, did not last long: the Sy-

racusans took advantage of intestine dnwensiceM

among the Leon tines, and, by espousing tbe cause uf

the oligarchy, drove the democratic party into exile,

while they adopted the oligarchy and richer rliMCi

as Syracusan citizens. The greater part of the

latter body even abandoned tbeir own city, and mi­

grated to Syracuse; but quickly returned, anil for a

time joined with the exiles in holding it out against

tbe power of the Syracusans. Hut t)»e Athenians,

to whom they again applied, were unable to render

them any effectual assistance; they were a seumd

time expelled, n.c. 422, and Leontini became a m«-re

dependency of Syracuse, though always retaining

some importance as a fortress, from the strength of

its position. (Thuc. v. 4; Diod. xii. 54.)

In b. c. 417 the Leoutinc exiles are mentioned aa

joining with the Segestans in urging on the Athe­

nian expedition to Sicily (Diod. xii. 83; Flut. JVar.

12); and their restoration was maoe one of th*

avowed objects of the enterprise. (Thuc, vi. 50.)

But the failure of that expedition left them without

any hope of restoration ; and Leontini continued in

its subordinate and fallen condition till B.c.406*

when the Syracusans allowed the unfortunate Ajrn-

gentines, after the capture of their own city by the

Carthaginians, to establish them»eke* nt I^rceitiiu.

The lieloans and Cawurinaean* followed their ex-

ample the next year: the Leontine exiles of Syracuse

at the same time took the opportunity to return W

their native city, and declare themselves indr|«ihirat,

and the treaty of peace concluded by Inonyuu* with

Hiiniico, in n. c. 405, expressly sttjHiUtrd fur th*

