SARACEN'.. 905 SARAriS IXS.

rarnlenng tribes. As their nomadic and migratory

etbirji were described by the latter, so their preda-

jtt propensities, according to the most probable

swrpretation of the name, m by the former, for

'e Arabic veib Sarttia, according to lexicographers,

r> . See "to plunder." (Bochart, Geog. Sac. lib.

cap. 2, pp. 213, 214.) The derivation of the

Lf-i* from Sarah has been rejected by nearly all

itje» as historically erroneons; and tho fact that

rLame was in use many centuries before Moham­

ad, at once negatives the theory that it was adopted

'ham or his followers, in order to remove the

arma of their servile origin from Hagar the bond-

ntB. (Reland, Polatttina, p. 87.) This author

aiBTains that u Saracen i nil nisi orientates populos

KMX:' deriving the word from the Arabic tharaka

•rrras fait; anil as unhappily the Greek alphabet

discriminate between sin and thin, and the

i* does not occur in the native authors, there is

thing to determine the etymology. Mr. Korster,

drrianre of Bocharl's severe sentence, "Qui ad

m rcferunt. nngas agunt" (Geog. Sac. i. 2, p.

3X argues for the matronymic derivation from

rab. aud shows that the country of Edom, or the

o'ltii and territory bordering on the Saracens

riassac authors, are called ** the country, moun­

ts. eYe. of Sarah" by the .Tews; and be main*

•» that, aa this tract derived its name of Edom

: I'tumara from the patriarch Ksau, so did it that

**r*h from Si rah the wife of Abraham, the  
.*-*i«deed mother of the race. (Geog. of Ara-

, roi- n- pp. 17—19.) His attempt to identify

Nvrmrrni with the Amalekites is not so success-

f r however difficult it may be to account for

sptaarance of the latter

the Kephidim

■sat Mti: 1, 8; Rkthidim), which was the

r.try of Saracena, yet their proper seat is

4 beyond doubt in the south of the promised

t B tba hill-couDtry immediately north of the

Irrjrwm of I "a ran. near to Kadesh (Xumb. xiii.

. aod it ia impossible to understand "the valley"

lit. 25. and "the hill " in xiv. 45, of Hureb, as

IVrxter does, since the whole context implies a

- n far to the north of the district of Horeh,  
mad by the following stations: Tsberah, 3 days'

■my from *" the Mount of the Lord " (x. 33, xi.

Kiisroth-battaarah, H axe roth, the wilderness of

■a (xi. 34. 35, xii. 16, compare xxxiii. 16—18).

BeM indee i be admitted that the name of the

occasionally used, in a much wider

in its proper one, of all the Kdomite

Northern Arabia, as e. g. in 1 Sam.

similarly the name Saraceni is extended in

uas'a Prriplrm, already cited: but it seems more

--al to interpret the words ol KtLXovutroi 2apa-  
*. **.ssurvat I'xo»t«« wooffiryopior of the general  
a af aeieral specific tribes, marking common

ti or eommofi position rather than common

n. according to the analogy of the Scenitae in

lime* and of Bcdawm = " deserti incolae," in

mi times; particularly as it does not appear that

aasa* wa» ever adopted by the Arabs themselves,

not have been slow to appropriate an

appellation, which would identify them

! the great patriarch. That their predatory cha­

ir bad become early established is manifest from

'iperale expedient resorted to by the emperor

rn is order to repress their encroachments. He

—l ia have brought lions and lionesses from

loose on the borders of

as theCircisiumCastrum,

that they might breed and propagate against the Sara­

cens. (CAron. A lex. in a.m. 5760, Olymp. 257, Ind.

xiv. = A. D. 251.) This strong fortress, railed by

Procopius Circesium (KioKrjo-ioy ippovoiov), the most

remote of the Roman garrisons, which was fortified

by Diocletian (Amm. Marc, xxiii. 5), was situated

on the angle formed by the confluence of the Abor-

rhas (Khabour) and the Euphrates (it is still called

Karlcilia), so that it is clear that, in the time of

Procopius, the name of Saraceni was given to the

Arab tribes from Egypt to the Euphrates. Con­

sistently with this view, he calls Zenobia's husband

Odonathes, " king of the Saracens in those parts"

(Bell. Pers. ii. 5, p. 288);-and Belisarius's Arab

contingent, under their king Aretas ('Ap«6os) ha

likewise calls Saracens (ii. 16, p. 308). That Ro­

man general describes them (c. 19, p. 312) as in­

capable of building fortifications, but adepts at

plunder, which character again justifies the ety­

mology above preferred; while it is clear from these

and other passages that the use of the name had

become established merely as a general name, and

precisely equivalent to Arab (see Bell. Pen. i 19,

p. 261), and was accordingly adopted and applied

indifferently to all the followers of Mohammed by

the writers of the middle ages. [G. W.]

SARALA. [Sardinia.]

SARA'LIUM or SARALUS (SdpoXoj), a town

of the Trocmi in Galatia, on the east of the river

Halys. (Tab. Peut.; Ptol. v. 9. § 4.) [L. S.]

SARAME'NE (ZapuWjiTi), a district of Pontus,

on the bay of Amisus. (Strab. xii. p. 547; com p.

Pontus.) [L. S.]

SARAXGA (va 2d>ay,a), a small place on the

coast of Gcdrosia between the Indus and the Arabia.

It was visited by Nearchus in his coast voyage to

Persia (Arrian. Ind. c. 22). It has been conjectured

by Muller (Geogr. Grace. Min. L c, ed. Haris) that

it is the same as the 'Pifdi/o. of Ptolemy (vi. 21.

§ 2)- [V-]

SARANGAE. [Drasoiana.]

SARAXGES (iapdrw). a small tributary of

the Hydraotes (Irdvati), mentioned by Arrian (Ind.

c. 4) in his list of Indian rivers. It is doubtless

the Sanscrit Saranga, though it has not been

determined to what stream this Indian name

applies. [V.]

SARAPANA (iapawavd, Strab. xi. p. 500: 2a-

pairaWs, Proccp. B. G. iv. 14), a strong position in

Iberia, upon the river Phasis, identified with Scha-

rapani in Imiretia, on the modem road which leads

from Mingrelia into Georgia over Suram. (Comp.

Journ. Geog. Soc. vol. iii. p. 34.) [E. B. J.]

SARAPARAE (2o?crrdpai, Strab. xi. p. 531;

Plin. vi. 16. s. 18), a Thracian people, dwelling be­

yond Armenia near the Guranii and Medi, according

to Strabo, who describes them as a savage, lawless,

and mountainous people, who scalped and cut off

heads (»rpio*in/i?icrrar Hal aa-ofrr^aAiirrdf). The

latter is said by Strabo to be the meaning of their

name, which is confirmed by the fact that in the

Persian tar means '* head" and para" division."

(Anquetil, Sur let one. I^anguct dc la Perte, in

Mim. dc VAcad. <fc. vol. xxxi. p. 419, quoted in

Kramer's Strab. vol. ii. p. 500; comp. Groskurd's

Sh-oi. vol. ii. p. 439.)

SARAPIONIS PORTUS. [Xiconis Dnoatus.}

SARAPIS INS. (2opc.7r.Jos rhoos), an island off

the South Coast of Arabia, mentioned by the author of

the Periplus ascribed to Arrian (Geog. Grace. Aim.

voL i. p. 19, Hudson) as situated 2000 stadia eaot

