W2 PALAESTTXA.

PALAESTINA.

who are least given to the pursuit of agriculture.

Every part, of it, therefore, has been put under

cultivation by the inhabitants, ami none of it lies

idle; but it possesses numerous cities and multi­

tudes "t" villages, all densely populated on account

of its fertility, so that the smallest of them has

in.He than 15 ,U0 J inhabitants.

Peraaa.—" On the whole, then, although Galilee is

inferior to Prraea in extent, yet it is superior to it in

strength. For the former is all under cultivation,

and productive in every part; but Peraea, although

much more exten>ive, is for the most part rugged

and barren, and too wild for the culture of tender

produce. Nevertheless, wherever the soil is soft it

is very prMueiive; and the plains are covered with

various trees (the greater part is planted with olives,

vine-,, and palms), and watered by mountain tor­

rents, and |>emiiiial wells sufficient to supply water

whenever the mountain streams are dried up by

the heat. Its greatest length is from Machaerfts

to Pella, and its breadth from Philadelphia to the

Jordan. It is bounded on the north by Pella, which

we have mentioned; on the west by the Jordan.

Its southern boundary is Moabitis, and its eastern

is Arabia and Silbonitis, and also Philadclphene

and Gerasa.

Samaria. —" The country of Samaria lies between

Jitdaea and Galilee ; for beginning at the village called

Gvuu-a, situated in the great plain, it ends at the

toparchy of Aerabatta: its character is in no res[x:ct

different from thatof Judaea,for both abound in moun­

tains and plains, and are suited for agriculture, and

productive, wooded, and full of fruits both wild and

cultivated. They are not abundantly watered; but

much rain falls there. The springs are of an

exceedingly sweet taste; and, on account of the

quantity of good grass, the cattle there produce

more milk than elsewhere. But the best proof of

their richness and fertility is that both are thickly

populated.

Jwlaea. —,; On 'he confines of the two countries

stands the village Annath, otherwise called Boreeos,

the boundary of Judaea on the north. The south of

it, when measured by length, is bounded by a village,

which stands on the c<»nlines of Arabia, called by

the neighboring Jews Jardan. In breadth it extends

from the Jordan to Joppa, and in the centre of

it lies the city Jerusalem; for which cause the

city is called by some, not without reason, the navel

of the earth. Judaea is not deprived of the advan­

tages of the sea, as it extends along the sea-coast to

Ptolemais. It is divided into eleven districts, of

which Jerusalem, as the seat of government, rules,

taking precedence over tlie surrounding country as

the head over the body. The other districts, after

it, are distributed by toparchies. Gophna is second;

after that, Aerabatta, then Tharnna, Lydda, Am-

m:iu.i, Pella, Munmea, Knsraddae, Hcrodcum, Jeri-

chus; then Jamnia and Joppa, winch take precedence

of the neighbouring country.

"Be>iles these districts, there are Gamalitica and

Gaulanitis, Batauaea, and Traehonitis, parts of the

kingdom of Agrippa. Beginning from Mount Li-

banus and the source of the Jordan, this country

reaches in breadth to the lake of 1 iberias: its length

is, from a village called Arpha to Julias. It is in­

habited by Jews and Syrians mixed.

"Thus wo have given an account, as short as was

possible, of Judaea and the neighbouring regions."

Besides this general description of the country

according to its divisions in the first century of the

Christian era, Josephus has iaserted in his V:.-v--y

special descriptions of several towns and <]>:-: :,

with details of great geographical interest vs-. ■im­

portance. The>e, however, w ill be found, for the b«S

part, under their several names, in these t<-i^mn

[AriLox; Basiian; Esdkaflox Valus: Btu*

Jericho; Jerusalem; Tiberias il.\RE,&c]

As the division of Gabiniua does not apt.* (

have had a permanent influence, it may be t&kim

to notice it, before disuiissing Josephus wbo is N

sole authority for it. He informs us that tiir K -

general having defeated Alexander the wn of A:

stobulus, and pacified the country, constituted m

councils (<rvv*8pta) in various parts of tb* cou&*

which he distributed into so many eqail diTWfl

(uoi'pav). These seats of judicature were Jerosi>e

Gadara, Amathus, Jericho, and SepphorU iniixih

(Ant. xiv. 5. § 4.) In the division of the rart

among the sons of ilerod the Great., Judaea. Warn

(i.e., in the language of Josephus, the soctM

part of Judaea), with Samaria, were is^i?;*!

Archelaus, with the title of ethnarch. Amif»*ti

Galilee and Pernea, with the title of trtranh. J

Philip, with the same title, Tracbonitia, Aaraial

Batanaea, and Paneas, mostly without the In its

Palestine [rid. *. ft.]. (AnL xvii. 13. § 4.) Oa<

disgrace and banishment of Arehelaus, in th# 1'

year of his rein'n, his government was ad.;rJ v

province of Syria, and administered by a procan

subordinate to the prefect of Syria.; the n.;■■<.■!

attended the tetrarchy of Philip on his death lb

twentieth year of Tiberius, until it wis co r u/ 'M

Henni Agrippa by Caius Caligula, with the ttffc

king, to which was added the tetrarchy of I.ysH

and subsequently, on the banishment of Ant^pa*.

tetrarchy also; to which Claudius add so 1*1

Judaea and Samaria, so that his kingdom eqtt

in extent that of his grandfather Heroi ih*

On his death, his son, who was but sev-nvrij 1

old, was thought too young to succewi him. ad

dominions reverted to the province of Syria tia

the death of Herod king ot Chalcis, that country

committed to the younger Agrippa. which wa« I

wards exchanged for the tetrarthies of Phua

Ly&anias, to which Nero Added the part of Gi

about the sea of Tiberias, and Julias in the

After his death, in the third year of Trajan, im

no further mention of the tetrarchies (fej^

lae-ftina, lib. i. cap. 30, pp. 174. 175.)

The division into toparchies, nieEti*«i

Josephus, is recognised also by Pliny, tboagta

lists do not exactly coincide. Pliny reck -fas!

us follows: —

1. Jericho. 7. Tharnna.

2. Einmaus. 8. Bt-thkptapLeoe.

3. Lydda. 9. Oreioe ^in wcjd

4. Joppa. Jerusalem.)

5. Acrabata. 10. Herodiam.

6. Gophna.

Of these 8 and 9 are not reckon**! by Jo£?;-b«l

Keland is probably correct in his cvfyt-ciar* t

is identical with his Pella, and 9 with hi* Ijb

as this district may well be described a* *

mountainout, (Plin. Hist. NaL v. 14.)

The other notices of Pliny are tew and trarm*

but agree in all essential particular* with tta

chronuus but independent account of Job<p^iw

cited.

Its geography had undergone little rariaUtf

Ptolemy wrote in the following crnturr, *:

brief notices of that geographer areas acemi

