274 MARGIANA. MABIABA.

MARGIA'NA (i, Mofryio^, Strab. li. p. 516,

Ptol. vi. 10; Plin. vi. 16. a. 18), a district of con­

siderable extent in the western part of Central Asia,

which was bounded on the W. by Hyrcania, on the

N. by Scythia and the Oxus as far as Bactriana, on

the K. by Bactriana, and on the S. by Ariana. At

present the country is called Kkordtan, and com­

prehends also some part of the territory occupied by

the Turkoman tribe*. Like most of the districts at

a great distance from Greece or Rome, it was but

partially known to the ancients; hence its limits

are variously stated by ancient authors. Thus

Strabo makes it the province next to Parthia, to the

N. of the Sariphi mountains, and gives the same

boundaries to the W., N., and E. as the other geo­

graphers (xi. p. 516). Pliny places it in the same

direction, but adds that a desert of 120 M.P. must

be crossed before it could be reached (vi. 16. s. 18).

Both Strabo and Pliny speak of the great fertility

of its land, and the fineness of its climate; the former

stating that the vines were often so large that a man

could not embrace their stems in his arms; the

latter, that it was the only district in that part

of the world which produced grapes. The ac­

counts of the ancients are in this particular con­

firmed by modem and by Muhammedan writers.

According to the latter, it would seem to have

comprehended the territory from Bunjurd on the

west, tnMerv and theMnrgh-db in the east, a tract

remarkable for its beauty and fertility. (Wilson,

Ariana, p. 149.) The principal river of Margiana,

from which, too, it probably derived its name, was

the Margus (now Mitrah-ab). Various races and

tribes are noticed in different authors as occupying

|«rts of Margiana. All of them may be considered

as of Scythian or Tatar origin;— indeed, in this part

of Asia, the population has remained nearly the

same to the present day which it was in the classical

times. The principal of these were the Derbicx'AE

or Derbices (Steph. p. 23; Strab. xi. p. 508;

Di"nys. v. 734), who lived to the N. near the mouth

of the Oxus; the Marsagetae, the Parmi, and

the Daae, who lived to the S. of the former along

the Caspian and the termination of the Margus,

which lo>es itself in the sands before it reaches the

Caspian: and the Tapcri and Mardi. The chief

towns were, Antiociif.ia Makuiana (certainly

the present J[erv), Nisaka or Nesaea, Ariaca,

and Jasonh;>i. [See thee places under their rc-

apertive namcs.1 [^-]

MAKGIDUM7M, in Britain (/(in. Anton, pp.

477, 479). It is supposed by Camden, Stnkeley,

Hnrseley, and others, to have been situated at or

near Katt Brulje/bnl, about eight miles from Wil-

low/lilx/. [C. It S.]

SlAKCITM or MAROVS (Mipyor, Mao?or),also

called ML'lHiUM, a city of Moesia, at the confluence

of t he Marcus and Danube. It was termed " Mar-

gnin planum " on account of the level character of

the surrounding country. (Jomand. de Rrb. Get.

c. 58.) It was here that the emperor Carimts was

totally defeated by Diocletian. (Eutrop. ix. 13,

x. 20; //. Ant. p. i.>2; It. f/ienit.f. 564.) [A.I..]

MAKGI'S (Maoyoi, St tab. vii. p. 318; Margis,

Plin. iii. 26. s. 29), an important river of Moesia,

which flows into the Daimlie, near the town of Mar-

gum, now the Morara. Strabo says (/. c.) that it

was also called Margus, and the same appears in

Herodotus (iv. 44) under the form of Brongua

(Bfoyyof). It ia the same river as the Moachiua

(M<J<rx">0 of Ptolemy (iu. 9. § 3). [A. L.]

MARGUS (Ma>yoj, Strab. xi. p. 516: PtoL vi.

10. §§ 1, 4), the chief river of the peuuiice ef

Margiana, which in all pmbability derives its name

from it,—now the Murgh-ab or ilerv JimL It ia

said by Ptolemy to have taken its rise in the Sariphi

mountains (now Hazard/), a western spur of the

great range of the Paropamisus, and, after a twin hem

coarse and a junction with another small stream, U

have flowed into the Oxus. The travels of Sr

Alexander Burnes have demonstrated that the

Murgh-db no longer reaches the Oxus, but is lost

in the sands about 50 miles NW. of Mtrr (Burnes,

vol. ii. p. 35); but it is probable that as Luis as the

time of Ibn Haukal (about a. d. 950) it still flowed

into the Jihou (De Sacy, Mem. tar demr Prvr. d*

la Perte, p. 22). The Margus passed by and

watered Antiocheia Margiana, the capital of the

province. [^0

MAltl AHA (Mapiaga). There seem to have been

several cities of this name in Arabia, as there are

still several towns or sites of the name, scarcely

modified. How many distinct cities are mentioned

by the classical geographers, antiquarians are not

agreed, and the various readings have involved tie

question in great perplexity. It will be well to eli­

minate first those of which the notices are moat

distinct.

1. The celebrated capital of the Sabaei in Yemen,

is known both in the native and classical writers.

It is called the metropolis of the Sabaei by Strabo

(xvi. 4. § 2). which tribe was contiguous to that

of the Minaei, who bordered on the Red Sea en one

side, and to the Catabaneis, who reached to the

straits of liab-eUMantirb. [Sabaei; Mixaei: Ca-

tabasci.] It was situated on a well-wooded moan-

tain, and was the royal residence. It seems difficult

to imagine that this was distinct from the Mariana

of Pliny, who, however, assigns it to the Atramhae,

a branch of the Sabaei, and places it on a hay

94 M. P. in circuit, filled with spice-beariug island*;

while it is certain that the Mariaba of the Sabarana

was an inland city. It is beyond all doabt the

Maarib of the Arabian historians, built according to

their traditions by 'Abd-schems, sumamed Snbm,

third only in succession from the patriarch Koktaa

or Joktan, son of Eber. Abolfeda says that this

city was also called Saba; and that, in the opinkn

of some, Maarib was the name of the royal residence,

while the city itself was called Saba. Its founder

also constructed the stupendous embankment » re­

nowned in history, forming a dam for confining the

water of seventy rivers and torrents, which he con-

dncted into it from a distance. (Abulfeda, Hitturia

Anle-hhmica, lib. iv. ap. init.) The object of that

was not only to supply the city with water, bat al**>

to irrigate the lands, and to keep the subjugated

country in awe, by being masters of the water. The

water rose to the height of almost 2') fathom*, and

was kept in on every side by a work so solid, that

many of the inhabitants had their houses built ur««i

it. It stood like a mountain above the city, ami no

danger was apprehended of its ever failing. The

inundation of El-Arem {the mound) is an sera in

Arabic history, and is mentioned in the K'iran as

a signal instance of divine judgment on the inha­

bitants of this city for their pride and insolence*

A mighty flood broke down the moutnl by night,

while the inhabitant* were asleep, and carried away

the whole city, with the neighbouring tons and

people. (Sale, Koran, cap. 34, vol ii. D. 189. ante*,

and Preliminary Vitcourtt, sett. I. roL 1 p. 1S(

