670 PJtOBALlKTHUS.

PROFKXA.

4'2, viii. 1.) Tim was soon after divided among the

Kcman plebeians. (Id. viii. 11.) They do not ap­

pear to hare taken any part in the general war of the

Latins and Cainpanians against Rome ; but in B.C.

327 the l'iivernates again took up arms single-

handed, with only the assistance of a few of the Kun-

dani Notwithstanding this. the war was deemed of

sufficient importance to employ two consular armies;

and it was not till after a long siege that Piiver-

iiuin was reduced by C. Pluit'ius, the consul of the

following year. The walls of the city were destroyed,

and the leaders of the defection severely punished;

hut the rest of the people were admitted to the Eto­

nian citizenship,— probably, however, in the first in­

stance without the right of suffrage, though this also

must have been granted tlieui in the year n. o. 316,

when the Ufentine. tribe was constituted, of which

Privernum was the chief town. (Liv. viii. 19—21,

ix. 20: Fort. Ctt/>ti.; Val. Max. vi. 2. § 1: Festus,

s.v. UfetUina ; Niebuhr, vol. iii. p. 176.) According

to Festus (p. 233) it became a Praefectnra; but

notwithstanding this subordinate condition (which

was perhaps confined to the short period before it

attained the full franchise), it seems to have been a

flourishing municipal town under the Roman govern­

ment. Its territory was one of those which the

agrarian law of SM'vilins Kullus proposed to assign

to the Roman populace (Cic. </e Ley. Ayr. ii. 25);

but though it escaped upon this occasion, it sub­

sequently received a military colony (Lib. Colon, p.

2-16). The period of this is uncertain: according

to Zumpt (de Colon, p. 401) it probably did not

take place till the reign of Trajan. In inscriptions

it bears the title of a colony; though others term it

a municipium ; and neither Pliny nor Ptolemy assign

it the rank of a colony. (1'lin. iii. 5. s. 9; Ptol. iii.

1. § G3; Zumpt, I. c.) It was noted, as well as the

neighbouring Setia, for the excellence of its wine

(Plin. xiv. 6.S.8); but we hear little of Privernum

under the Roman Empire, and have no subsequent

account of its fate. From its secluded position, no

mention occurs of it in the Itineraries. The ruins of

the ancient city, which according to Cluverius arc

considerable, are situated about 2 miles N. of the

modern Pipemo, on the site still called Pipenw

Vtcchio. The period or occasion of the abandonment

of the ancient site is unknown; but it is certainly

erroneous to connect it with a great earthquake which

is alluded to by Cicero as taking place at Privernum

(Cic. dt IHv. i. 43). On that occasion, we are told,

the earth sank down to a great depth,— a phenomenon

which may have given rise to a remarkable chasm

or cavity still visible in the neighbourhood of Piperno.

The ancient city was more probably deserted in con­

sequence of the ravages of the Saracens in the tenth

century, from which all this part of Latium suffered

severely (liampoldi, Corografia of Italia, voL Hi. p.

258), and the inhabitants sought refuge, in more

elevated and secure positions, such as that of the

modem town of Pipemo. [F. II. II.]

PKOBALINTHUS. [Marathon.]

PROBA'TIA. [Bokotia, p. 412, b.]

PROCKRASTIS, the more ancient name of

Chalcbdox, according U> Pliny (v. 32. s. 43).

PKO'CHVTA (ripoxtnn: Procida\ a small

island off the coast of Campania, situated between

Cape Misenum (from which it is distant less than 3

miles) anil the larger island of Aenaria or hchia.

In common with the latter it is of volcanic form­

ation, and appears to have been subject in ancient

times to frequent earthquakes. Pliny and Strabo

even tell us that it was a mere fragment Van el

from the neighbouring island of Aenam by ate]

the violent convulsions of nature to wfako it «■

subject. But this statement certainly has » b»

torical foundation, any more than another, ala» •

corded by Pliny, that both islands hail been tinal

up by volcanic action from beneath the .wa. Sad

an event, however true as a geological infaanl

must have long preceded the historical era. (§M

i. p. 60, ii. p. 123, v. pp. 24$, 258; Pirn. U-tf

The same phenomena led the pr*ts to ra

Prochjta with Aenaria or I nan me, in consol

with the fable of the giant Tvphoeos [A cm CM

and Siltns Italicus even assigned it a fiantrfl

own, Mimas. (Virg- Aeru ix. 715; S;L luL'

542. xii. 147; Ovid. Met iiv. 89.)

Virgil's epithet of " Prochyta alta" is lea a)

priate than usual. — the island, thoozhfirtl

perpendicular cliffs, being flat and low. a* ca^l

either with lochia or the neighbouring btadhnl

Misenum. There does not appear to hare beau

town on the island in ancient limes. Siatisetf

ii. 276) terms it a rugged island, and Juraull

iii. 5) speaks of it as a wretched and h»et»1

of residence. At the present day, on the cat

it is one of the most fertile and nouiiabiaf i

in the Neapolitan dominions, its whole «r»1

cultivated like a garden and suj»pnrtmr a |

lation of 44)00 inhabitants. It is distant hem

and 3 miles from Cape Misenum, bat calf]

a mile and a lialf from the nearest poi

mainland, which is now known ma the

Procida. [E.

PIIOCONNE'SUS (npoKovnjtraM, or I

cos in Zosjbdl ii. 30. and Hie rod. p. 662).

In the western part of the Proponti*. befwa

and Cyzicus, and not, as Strata (xhL p.

it, between Parium and PriapM. The

particularly celebrated for its rich marble

which supplied most of the neighbouring I

especially Cyzicus, with the iriateriak

public buildings; the palace of Mi--..-,

built of this marble, which wa> while iaaal

with black streaks. (Vitruv. ii. 8.) Tan

contained in its south-western part a bnou

same name, of which Aristeas, the poet «* d

tnaspeia, was a native. (Herod, iv. 14; romyv.fl

p. 35; Strab. Lc.) This town, which w

of tlie Milesians (Strab. xii. p. 587). w

Phoenician fleet, acting under it

Darius. (Herod, vi. 33.) Strabo distaa,

tween old anil ne* Proconnesus; and Sryi

Proconnesus, notices another island ralJeJ

nesus, with a pood harbour. 1 *linv (t.

Scholiast on Apollonian Khodius (ii. 2

Klaphonesus only as another name fur

but KUphoneans was unquestionably

situated a little to the south of I'p

inhabitants of Cyzicus, at a time wl

ascertain, forced the Proronnesians to

with them, and transferred the statue of

Dindymene to their own city. (Pan*. *^

The island of Proconnesus is mentioned at a aj

in the ecclesiastical hiftoriana and the add

Council of Cbakedon. The celebrity of jM

quarries has changed its ancient name int»jfl

or Marmora; whence the whole <4 the

now called the .Sea o

autonomous coins of

Vet p. 75.

PPOKPXA {l\p6*pn\ a town .f

