ROMA. ROMA. 853

\.Uf. (irorge Fabricius, of Chemnitr, author of

nii<ptitat*m Libri If., Basle, 1550, accused Pan-

aiu of dealing from him; but if such was the

■*. !.e frmtfJy improved what he purloined. Jean

t |im H issinj, of Besancon, published at Frank-

- to 1597 a Topogruphia Romanae Urbis, whicli  
:vt of much value; but the sketches in his col-

r.;i.«i-rf inscriptions liave preserved the aspect of

jrytliingi that have now disappeared. The next

■ri nf u\y note is the Roma Vetus et Recerts of the

Alex. iKaiatua of Siena, in which particular

remon wai paid to the illustration of Homan

Wmpby hr passages in ancient authors. It was

MtbedatRt <ne, 1638. 4to, and also in the The-

v%* <A Graevius, vol. iii. But this production

i' Mm obscured by the more celebrated work of

auouo Nardini, the Roma Antica. which marks

*pch in Roman Topography, and long enjoyed a  
r*-want authority. So late as the year 1818.

characterised Nardini as "to this day

r nut serviceable conductor.'" (tlist. Illustrations

'Wii< Harold, p. 54.) Yet. in many respects,

*h an incompetent guide. He knew no Greek;

the works of the pseudo-Regionaries for the

*k:ion of his bonk; and it is even affirmed that,  
o^i be lived in Rome, he had never visited many

II* buildings which be describes. (Bunscn, Vor-

> -v.- Btsrhreibung. p. xxxix.) His work was

Med at Rome, 1668, 4to; but the best edition

fi w tbe 4th. edited by Nibby, Home. 1818,

•<■'•- fwi There is a Latin translation of it in

Bvias,vol iv. In 1680, Raphael Fabretti. of

iv, secretary to Card inn I Ottoboni, published a

ij''> »ork, he Aquaeductibtts, which *ili also

r v. t in the same volume of Graevius.

f«anla tbe end of the 17th century two learned

tris iVnediclines. Mabillon and M"iitfaucon,

knd mocfa service to Roman topography. Ma-

«tnt (aiUished the Anonymus Einsicdlensis in

Ujccifl (rol. iv. p. 50, seq.) Montfaucon,

»pnU two years and a halt in Rome (1698—

'J ., verted in his J>utrium Italicum a descrip-

lot city divided into twenty days. The

i ckapter contains a copy of the M'trabilia. In

"(>laaa Bomcuius published a topographical

it </ Hunt, according to the Regions. It is in

lib vtfaiM of Graevius, The work of the Mar-

I-. m!Soo Yenuti, entitled Accurata e succinta

naimr Topograjica delle Antichita di Roma

1763, 3 Vols. 4ta), is a book of more pre-

•f■*- Venuti took most of his work from Nar-

uA Piranesi, and the new matter that he added

■Watly erroneous. The 4th edition by Slefano

f. K-o*. 1824. is the best. Francesco Fico-

* IVanyu e Rarita di Roma Antica (IIonia,

* *'■*.) i* not a very satisfactory performance.  
*■■! tfrrtal portions of it have been inserted in

MiniLmea of Fea (part i. pp. 118—178).

* 'k of oar countryman Andrew Lumisden,  
»Wi vn tkt Antu/uitirs of Rome and its En-

■»',Ij»doa, 1797, 4to.) was, in its day, a book

■* ■sthority. Many valuable observations on

t*Wapby are scattered in the works of the

f'taetano Marini, and es]>ecially in his A Hi

rnltlli Arrafi; bat he treated the subject onlv

"aJv. The same remark applies to Visconti.

W tlftcritta td illustmta (Roma, 180*5,

t *t*),of the Abhatc Guattani is the parent of

*4 ih" modern guide books. Antonio Nibby  
several useful works on Roman topo-

hj, which, if sometimes deficient in accurate

scholarship, display nevertheless considerable acute-

ness and knowledge of the subject. His principal

works are, Del Foro Romano, delta Via Sacra, tfc,

Roma, 1819. 8vo.; Le Mura di Roma, disegnate

da Sir W. Gell, illustr. da A. Nibby, Roma, 1820;

and Ins Roma Antica, published in 1838. Sir

Win. Gell's Topography of Rome and its Vicinity

(2nd Edit., revised and enlarged by Bunbury, Lon­

don, 1846) contains some useful information. The

Miscellanea flologica, critica ed antiquaria (Rome,

1790). and the Suova Descrizione di Roma (Rome,

1820, 3 vols. 8vo.), by Carlo Fea, are useful works,

liobhnuse's Historical I (lustrations of ChUde Harold,

icith Dissertations on the Ruins of Rome (London,

2nd ed. 1818, dvo.) arc chiefly valuable for their ac­

count of the gradual destruction of the city. The

works of two other Englishmen are now out of date

viz. Edward Burton's Description of Hie Antiqui­

ties of Rome (Oxf. 1821 ; London, 1828, 2 vols.

8vo.); and the Rev. Richard Burgess's Topography

and Antiquities of Rome (Loudon, 1831, 2 vols.

8vo.). Forsyth's Italy is of little service for Rome.

Sachsc's (Jeschichte und Reschreibung der alien Stadt

Rom (Hanover, 1824—1828, 2 vols. 8vo.), though

still in some respects a useful production, must now

be regarded as superseded by more recent works.

We are now arrived at the Reschreibung der

Stadt Rom, with which may be said to commence

the modern epoch of Roman topography. This work

was projected in 1817 by some German literati

then residing at Rome, among whom were the

present Chevalier Bunsen, and Ernst Rlatner,

Eduard Gerhard and Wilhelm Rostcll. They were

joined by the celebrated historian B. G. Niebuhr,

who undertook the superintendence of the ancient

part; for the scheme of the l»ook embraced a com­

plete description of the modern city, with all its

treasures of art, U'sides an account of ancient Rome.

It is, However, of course only with the latter that

we are hen? concerned, which was undertaken by

Niebuhr. Iiunsen. and subsequently L. Urlichs.

Niebuhr's connection with the work was not of long

duration, and only a few of the descriptions are

from his hand, which form the most valuable

portion of the book. The views of the German

scholars threatened a complete revolution in Roman

topography. They seemed to have coine to Rome

with the express design of overturning the paper

city, na their ancestors many centuries before had

subverted the stone one. In extent and accuracy of

erudition they were far superior to their Italian

antagonists; but this advantage is often more than

counterbalanced by that want of sober and critical

good sense which so frequently mars the produc­

tions of German scholars. They have succeeded iu

throwing doubt upon a great deal, but have esta­

blished very little iu its place. To I'iale, and not

to the Germans, belongs the merit of having re­

established the true situation of the forum, which

may be considered as the most important step in

the modem topography of Rome. The German

views respecting the Capitol, the comitium. and

several other important points, have found many

followers; but to the writer of the present article

they appear for the most part not to be proved; and

he has endeavoured in the preceding pages to give

his reasons for that opinion.

It cannot be denied, however, that the appearance

of the Reschreibung did good service to the cause of

Roman tof-ography, by awakening a sharper and

more extended spirit of inquiry. The first vu

3 I 3

