TARENTUM. 1095 TAKENTUM.

r«;/ii gernnXlj have reckoned it a city of Magna

iwvis, and not bare regarded it as included in

iprpa. Its situation is peculiar, occupying a

ruteac-torr or peninsula at the entrance of an ex­

tern? but shallow bay, now called the Mare Pic-

■ '•s, but in ancient times known as the Port of

[in-ccom, an inlet of above 6 miles in length, and

ua 2 to 3 in breadth, but which was so nearly

l»ai tt its mouth by the peninsula occupied by the

itj, tint the latter is now connected by a bridge

l'Ji the opposite aide of the harbour. There can

f mi duabt that the ancient city originally occupied

lie tune space to which the modern one is now

..£.«M, ilat of the low but rocky islet which lies

ractly across the mouth of the harbour, aud is now

tawtwi from the mainland at its E. extremity by

i artificial fosse or ditch, but was previously joined

it by a narrow neck of sand. This may probably

>' t been itself a later accumulation; and it is not

Star/ that tlie city was originally founded on an

mL lomewhat resembling that of Ortygia at Syra-

* which afterwards became joined to the main-  
u. io<i has again been artificially separated from

As in the case of Syracuse, this island or pen­

al* afterwards became the Acropolis of the en-

:w) city, which extended itself widely over the

■rining plain.

lsrvutuni was a Greek city, a colony of Sparta,

aJed a-ithin a few years after the two Achaean

-iw of Sybaria and Crotona. The circumstances  
t W to its foundation are related with some

■tixo by Antiochua and Ephorus (both cited by

■bo), but both aalhorB agree in the main fact that

cwonists were a body of young men, born during

r mt Messenian War under circumstances which

'over tlutir birth a taint of illegitimacy, on

aj account they were treated with contempt by

'<iitr citizens; and after an abortive attempt at

tier; a revolution at Sparta, they determined to

pate in a body under a leader named Phalan-

i. They were distinguished by the epithet of

lionise, in allnsion to their origin. Phalanthus,

km apparently himself one of the disparaged

>, uid had been the chief of the conspirators at

ta, after consulting the oracle at Delphi, became

lt*ier and founder of the new colony. (Antio-

\ op. Strab. vi. p. 278; Ephorus, lb. p. 279;

. ad Am. iii. 551; Diod. xv. 66; Justin, iii. 4;

in. Ch. 332.) Both Antiochus and Ephorus

sent them as establishing themselves without

uity on the spot, and received in a friendly

■er by the natives; and this is far more probable

tlv statement of l'ausanias, according to which

f i-ittd themselves in constant warfare; and it

'»* till after a long struggle that they were able

u-? themselves masters of Tarentum. (Pans. x.

) f- ) The same author represents that city as

nady occupied by the indigenous tribes, and

;* a great and powerful city, but this is highly

tuble. The name, however, is probably of

i origin, and seems to have been derived from

'< tie small river or stream which always con-

to be known as the Taras; though, as nsual,

■neks derived it from an eponymous hero named

', who was represented as a son of Neptune and

nj-b. of the country. (Paus. 76. § 8 ) It is

l> that tlie hero Tares continued to be an object

■rial worship at Tarentum, while Phalanthus,

5 15 revered as their Oekist, was frequently

tiled with him, and gradually became the sub.

ut many legends of a very mythical character,

in some of which he appears to have been confounded

with Taras himself. (Paus. x. 10. §§ 6-8, 13.

§ 10; Serv. ad A en. l.c) Nevertheless, there is

no reason to donbt the historical character of Pha­

lanthus, or the Lacedaemonian origin of Tarentum,

which was confirmed by numerous local names and

religious observances still retained there down to a

very late period. (Pol. viii. 30, 35.) The Roman

poets also abound in allusions to this origin of the

Tarentines. (Hor. Cam. iii. 5. 56, ii. 6. 11; Ovid.

Met. xv. 50, &c.) The date of the foundation of

Tarentum is given by Hieronytnus as b. c. 708, and

this, which is in accordance with the circumstances

related in connection with it, is probably correct,

though no other author has mentioned the precise

date. (Hieron. Ckron. ad 01. xviii.)

The history of Tarentum, for the first two cen­

turies of its existence, is, like that of most other

cities of Magna Graecia, almost wholly unknown.

But the main fact is well attested that it attained

to great power and prosperity, though apparently at

first ovorshadowed by the superior power of the

Achaean cities, so that it was not till a later period

that it assumed the predominant position among the

cities of Magna Graecia, which it ultimately at­

tained. There can be no doubt that it owed this

prosperity mainly to the natural advantages of its

situation. (Scymn. Ch. 332—336; Strab. vi. p. 278.)

Though its territory was not so fertile, or so well

adapted for the growth of grain as those of Meta-

pontum and Siris, it was admirably suited for the

growth of olives, and its pastures produced wool of

the finest quality, while its port, or inner sea as it

was called, abounded in shell-fish of all descriptions,

among which the Mum, which produced the cele­

brated purple dye, was the most important and

valuable. But it was especially the excellence of

its port to which Tarentnm owed its rapid rise to

opulence and power. This was not only landlocked

and secure, but was the" only safe harbour of any

extent on the whole shores of the Tarentinc gulf;

and as neither Brundusium nor Hydruntum. on the

opposite side of the Messapian peninsula, had as yet

attained to any eminence, or fallen into the hands

of a seafaring people, the port of Tarentum became

the chief emporium for the commerce of all this part

of Italy. (Pol. x. 1; Flor. i. 18. § 3.) The story

of Arion, as related by Herodotus (i. 24) indicates

the existence of extensive commercial relations with

Corinth and other cities of Greece as early as the

reign of Periander, B. c. 625—585.

As the Tarentines gradually extended their power

over the adjoining territories, they naturally came

into frequent collision with the native tribes of the

interior,—the Messapians and Peucetians; and the

first events of their history recorded to us relate to

their wars with these nations. Their offerings at

Delphi noticed by Pausanias (x. 10. § 6, 13. § 10),

recorded victories over both these nations, in one of

which it appears thai Opis, a king of the Iapygians,

who had come to the assistance of the Peucetians,

was slain; but we have no knowledge of the dutes

or circumstances of these battles. It would appear,

however, that the Tarentines were continually gain­

ing ground, and making themselves masters of the

Messapian towns one after the other, until their

progress was checked by a great disaster, their own

forces, together with those of the Rhegians, who

had been sent to their assistance, being totally de­

feated by the barbarians with great slaughter.

CHerod, vii. 170; Diod. xi. 52.) Su heavy was their

4 A 4

