UTICA VULTUR MONS. 1329

rail it her alliance with, Carthage, and, with other

cities of N. Africa, to have joined the Sicilian Aga-

thudes, the opponent of Cartilage; to have afterwards

revolted from thatconqueror,but to have been again re-

iluced toobedienee(Diod. xx. 17,54: cf. Polyb. i. 82).

Jn the First Punic War, Utica remained faithful to

Carthage; afterwards it joined the Libyans, bat w&i

compelled to submit by the victorious Carthaginians

(lMyb.ii.88: Diod. Fr.xxv.). In the Second Punic

War also we find it in firm alliance villi Cartilage, to

fclnne fleets the excellent harbour of Utica was very

•en i resole. But this exposed it to many attacks from

tlie Romans, whose freebootiug excursions were fre­

quently directed against it from Lilybaeuin, as well

a. to a more regular, but fruitless siege by Scipio

himself (I.iv. xxv. 31, xxvii. 5, xviii. 4, xxix. 35, XX x.

3, Jcc. ; Polyb. xiv. 3 ; Appian, I\nic. 16, 25, 30).

Jn the third war, however, the situation of Carthage

bring now ho]«less, the Uticenses indulged their

ancient grudge against that city, and made their

submission to Rome by a serrate embassy (Polyb.

xxxvL 1 ; Appian, J'un. 75, 110, 113). This step

greatly increased the material prosperity of Utica.

After the destruction of Carthage, the Romans pre­

sented Utica with the fertile district lying between

that city and Hippo Diarrhytus. It became the chief

town of the province, the residence of the Roman

governor, the principal emporium for the Roman

and the port of debarcation for the Koman

destined to act in the interior of Africa.

D«inr; to this intimate connection with Home, the name

/ Utica appears very frequently in the later history

jf the republic, as in the accounts of the Jugurthine

tVar, ii( the war carried on by l'ompey at the head

i Sullaa faction, against the Marian party under

'tamitioa and hia ally the Numidian king larhas,

ind in the straggle between Caesar and the Poui-

viana, with their ally Juba, It is unnecessary to

|iwte lire numerous passages in vvhich the name of

'ilea occurs in relation to these events. In the last

I these wars, Utica was the scene of the celebrated

Lealb of the younger Cato, so often related or ad-

erted to by the ancients (Hut. Cat Min. r>8, seq.:

>i -ri Caas. xliii. 10, sqq.; Val. Max. iii. 2. § 14; Cic.

to Ligat. 1, &c ; cf. Diet, of Biogr. Vol. 1. p.

A'J). Augustus presented the Uticenses with the

benan eiritat, partly an a reward for the inclination

rhich they had manifesttsl for the party of bis uncle,

ntl partly also to indemnify them for the rebuilding

f Carthage (I)iou Cass. xlix. 16 ; cf. Srxt. Rufus,

Irrv. 4). We know nothing more of Utica till the

me of Hadrian, who visited N. Africa in his ex­

clusive travels, and at whose desire the city changed

• ancient constitution for that of a Roman colony

s|«ruan. Badr. 13; (Jell. If. Att. xvi. 13). Thus

appears in the Tab. J'rut. with the appellation of

otunia, as well as in an inscription preserved in the

inaeuni of Leyden (Col. JuL Atl. Hair. Utic., ap.

sriaaen, JUut. lugd. Balav. Inter. Gr. et Lot.).

rptimina Severus, an African by birth, endowed

. u well aa Carthage and his birthplace I.eptis

laena, with the Jus ltalicum. We find the bishops

l/tic* frequently mentioned in the Christian period

nm the) time of the great Synod under Cyprian of

art bag* in 256, down to 684, when a bishop of

Uca appeared in the Council of Toledo. The city

said to have witnessed the martyrdom of 300

r><« at one time (cf. Morcelli, Afr. Christ, i. p.

",2, U. p. 150 ; Muuter, Primod. Eccl Afr. p. 32;

j£u»Un, e. Dvnat. vii. 8). Utica probably fell

:h Carthage, into the hands of the Vandals under

\ ou u.

Genserlc in 439. Subsequently it was recoveretl by

the Byzantine emperors, but in the reign of tho

Cbalif Abdchnalek was conquered by tho Arabians

under Hassan ; and though it appears to have been

again recovered by John the prelect or patrician, it

finally sank under the power of the Saracens during

the reign of the same Chalif, and on its second cap­

ture was destroyed (cf. Papencordt, die Vandal Herr-

$chafl in Afr. p. 72, sq., 151, sq. ; Weil, Often,

dtr Chalifer, i. p. 473, sqq. ; Gibbon, Uecl. ami Fall,

vi. 350, sqq ed. Smith). The remains of its marbles

and columns were carried away in the preceding

century, to serve as materials for the great mosque

of Tunis (Semilassn, p. 43.)

Several coins of Utica are extant bearing the heads

of Tiberius or I.ivia ; a testimony perhaps of the

gratitude of the city for the rights bestowed upon it

by Augustus (cf. Mionnet, Mid. Ant. vi. p. 589;

Supp. viii. p 208). [T. H. D.]

UTIDAVA (OirrOowt, Ptol. viii. 8. § 7). a town

in Dacia, E. of the Aluta. Identified with the ruins

at Kosmin, near the confluence of the Kuttchur and

the Pruth (cf. Ukert, iii. pt. ii. p. 620.) [T. H. D.]

UTII (OCtioi), one of the nations belonging to tin

fourteenth satrapy of the Persian empire (Herod,

iii. 93). which was anned in the same manner aa

the Pactyes (Id. vii. 68), and, according to Uobrik's

conjecture, perhaps dwelt in Pactyica. (Grog, dts

I/erod. p. 181.) [J. R.]

U ITS or VrnS(J/onrone), a river of Gallia Cis-

alpina, which rises in the Apennines, flows under

the walls of Forli (Forum Livii), and subsequently

by the city of Ravenna, and enters the Adriatic

about 5 miles from that city. At the picscnt day

it joins the Ronco (the Iledesia of Pliny), before

reaching the latter city, but in ancient times it pro­

bably discharged its waters by a separate channel

into the laguues which at that time surruumled

Ravenna. The name is written Vitis by Pliny (iii.

14. s. 19), but it is probable that Utisor Utensis the

more correct form, which is found in Livy. According

to that author it at one time formed the boundary

between the Boian ai.d Seuouian Gaula, (Liv. v.

35.) [E. H. B.]

UTTARIS, a town of the Callaici in the NW. of

Hispania Tarraconcnsis, on the road from I.urns

Au^usti to Asturica, between Pons Neviae and Ber-

gidum. (/(in. Ant. pp. 425, 430.) Variously iden­

tified with Cerredo, Voncot, and Ciutro de la

Ventota. [T. H. D ]

UTUS, an affluent of the Danube in M<*sia. The

Utua had its sources in Mount Uaemus, and formed

the K. boundary of Dacia Ripensis (Plin. iii. 26.

a. 29). Now the Vid. [T. H. D.]

UTUS (Ofrair, Prorop. de Aed. iv. 1), a town of

Moesia Inferior, a little to the S. of the confluence of

the like-named river with the Danube, and between

Orscus and Securisca (Itin. Ant. p. 221). Variously

identified with Starotelttzi, JJutaluUch, and a place

near Brtttoralx. [T. 11. D.]

VULCANI FORUM. [Pcteou]

VUI.CAMAE1NSULAE. [AiouAKlNgiuiF..]

VL'LCHALO is mentioned by Cicero (jrro f'on-

teio, 9) as a place in the west part of Gallia Narbo-

nensis, but nothing more is known of it, [G. L.J

VULGIENTES. [Atta Ji ua.]

VULSIMI. [Voiawii.]

VULTUR MONS (Monte Voltare), one of the

most celebrated mountains of Southern Italy, situ­

ated on the confines of Apulia, Lucania, and tLe

country of the Hirptni. It commences ab"in 5 miles

