MONETIUM. 369 MONS SELEUCUS.

enumerated by Pliny, who places them below the

Saltus Pyrenaeos (it. 19). The name seems to be

preserved in that of Monems, which is between Pons

and Savarreins, where it is said that there are traces

of Roman camps. Motions is in the department of

Boxes Pyrenees. [G. L.]

MOXE'TIUM (Monf™»), a town of the Iapodes

in lllyria. (Strab. iv. p. 207, vii. p. 314.)

MONOECI PORTUS (ModoIkou Kirfy, Strab.

PtoL). or more correctlv PORTUS HERCULIS

MOXOECI (Plin. iii. 5. § 7; Tac. Hist. iii. 42),

sometimes also PORTUS HERCULIS alone (Val.

Max. L 6. § 7: Monaco'), a port and town on the

coast of Liguria, at the foot of the Maritime Alps,

distant rather more than 200 stadia from Antipolis.

(Strab. iv. p. 202.) Its name was obviously derived

from the existence there of a temple of Hercules;

and the Greek form of the epithet by which it was

characterised, at ooce shows that it must have owed

its foundation to the Greeks of Massilia. But

Snabo, who derives the same inference from the

name, had evidently no account of its origin or

foundation, which were naturally connected by later

writers with the fables concerning the passage of

Hercules, so that Amminaus ascribes the foundation

of "the citadel and port" of Monoecus to Hercules

himself. (Amm. Marc. xv. 10. § 9.) The port is

well described by Strabo (/. c.) as of small size, so

as sot to admit many vessels, but well sheltered.

Luean, however, who gives a somewhat detailed

notice of it, says it was exposed to the wind called

by the Gauls Circins (the Vent de Bise) which ren­

dered it at times an unsafe station for ships (Lucan.

i. 403—108); and Silius Italicus dwells strongly

so the manner in which the whole of this part of

the coast of Liguria was swept by the same wind,

which he designates under the more general name

«f Boreas. (SU. Ital. i. 586—593.) The port was

filmed by a projecting rocky point or headland, on

which stands the modern town of Mowico, and

which was doubtless occupied in like manner in an­

cient times, at first by the temple of Hercules, after­

wards by the town or castle of Monoecus (orx Mo-

toed, Ammian. L c.) The town, however, does not

»«m to have ever been a place of much importance;

the advantage of its port for commercial purposes

WsK greatly neutralised by the want of commu­

nication with the interior. It was, however, fre-

Tamtfv resorted to by the Roman fleets and ships,

«n their way along the coast of Liguria into Spain;

and hence was a point of importance in a naval

jwnt of view. (Val. Max. i. 6. § 7; Tac. Hist. iii.

41) The headland of Monaco itself is of com-

puitivfly sm.U height, and lies immediately under

» peat mountain promontory, formed by one of the

•purs or projecting ridges of the Maritime Alps:

■nd which was regarded by many writers as the

raioral termination of the great chain of the Alps.

[Aura, p. 107.] * The passage of this mountain

nmt always have been one of the principal diffi-

mlt:es in the way of constructing a high road along

tl* wart of Liguria; this was achieved for the first

nu* by Augustus, and on the highest point of the

pteajrt (called in the Itineraries "in Alpe summa"

and "in Alps marilima," Itin. Ant. p. 296; Tab.

^'**t), he erected a trophy or monument to com-

wttiorate the complete subjugation of the different

Hence Virgil uses the expression "descendens

tree >|.jo<wd" (Am. vi. 830) by a poetical figure for

ths Maritime Alp* in general.

VOL. II.

nations inhabiting the Alps. The inscription of

this monument has been preserved to us by Pliny

(iii. 20. s. 24), and is one of our chief authorities

for the geography of the Alpine tribes. The ruins

of the monument itself, which was of a very massive

character, still remain, and rise like a great tower

above the village of Turbia, the name of which is

evidently a mere corruption of Tbopaka Augusti

(Tpdiraia Segaorou, Ptol. iii. 1. § 2), orTBOi'AEA

Alpium, as it is termed by Pliny (I. c).

The line of the Roman road, cut in the face of the

mountain, may be traced for some distance on each

side of Twbia, and several ancient milestones have

been found, which commemorate the construction of

the road by Augustus, and its reparation by Hadrian.

(Millin. Voy. en Piemont, vol. ii. pp. 135, 138;

Durante, Chorvgraphie du Comte de Aice, pp. 23

—30.)

The port of Monoecus seems to have been the

extreme limit towards the E. of the settlements of

Massilia, and hence both Pliny and Ptolemy regard it

as the point from whence the Ligurion coast, in the

more strict sense of the term, began. (Plin. iii. 5.

s. 7; Ptol. iii. 1. §§ 2, 3.) Ptolemy has made a

strange mistake in separating the Portus Herculis

and Portus Monoeci, as if they were two distinct

places. [E. H. B.]

MONS AUREUS (Xpiaovv bpos). 1. A moun­

tain in Moesia Superior, which the emperor Probus

planted with vines. (Eutrop. ix. 17, 20; It. Ant.

p. 132; It. U. p. 564.)

2. A town on the Danube, at the foot of the

mountain, 23 miles from Singidunum. (Tab.

Peut.) [A. L.]

MONS BALBUS, a mountain fastness of N.

Africa, to which Masinissa retired. (Liv. xxix. 31.)

Shaw (Trav. p. 184) places the range in the dis­

trict of Dakhul, E. of Tunis; perhaps Sabalct-es-

Sahib. [E. B. J.]

MONS BRISIACUS. This is one of the posi­

tions in the Roman kins, along the Rhine. They

place it between Helvetum or Helccbus [Hklcebus]

and Urunci. There is no doubt that is Yievx-

Erisach or Altbreisach, as the Germans call it All

the positions of the Itins. on the Rhine are on the

west or Gallic side of the river, but Vieux-Brisach

is on the east side. The Rhine has changed its

bed in several parts, and this is one of the plans

where there has been a change. Breisach is de­

scribed by Luitprand of Pavia (quoted by D'Anville),

as being in the tenth century surrounded by the

Rhine " in modum insulae." It may have been on

an island in the Roman period. The hill (mons) of

Altbreisach is a well marked position, and was once

crowned by a citadel. Altbreisach is now in the

duchy of Baden, and opposite to Neubreisach on the

French side of the Rhine. [G. L.]

MONS MARIOTfUM, a town in Hispania Bae-

tica, on the Mons Marianus, and on the road leading

from the mouth of the Anas to Emerita, now Ma­

rines, in the Sierra Moreno. (It. A nt. p. Ai2;

Inscr. ap. Caro, Ant. i. 20; Spon. Miscell. p. 191;

Flore?., Jisp. Sagr. ix. p. 23.)

MONS SACER (to Upby Spos, Ptol. iii. 17. § 4),

a mountain range on the SE. coast of Crete, near'

Hierapytna, identified with the Pytha (rii/rca) of

Strabo (x. p. 472; comp. Groskurd, ad loc.; Hock,

AVefn, vol. i. p. 16.) [E. B. J.]

MONS SELEUCUS, in Gallia Naibonensis, is

placed in the Antonine Itin. next to Vapincum

(Gap), on a road from Vapincum to Vienna (I ienne).

B B

