VELITBAE. 1209 VELTAE.

ra protracted for more than two years, and it is not

quite clear whether the city was taken in the end.

(Liv. vi. 36, 37, 38, 42.)' In n. c. 358 they again

broke out, and ranged the Roman territories, but we

bear nothing of their punishment (Liv. vii. 15): and

in B. c. 340, on the outbreak of the great Latin War,

thrjr are represented as among the first to join in

the defection. It is evident indeed that they were

at thia time still a powerful people: their troops

bore an important part in two successive campaigns,

bat shared in the general defeat of the Latins on the

hanks of the Aatura, B.C. 338. (Liv. viii. 3, 12, 13;

fast. Capit.) After the close of the war they were

selected for the severest punishment, on the especial

gr»>und of their having been originally Roman citizens.

Their walls were destroyed, and their local senators

transported beyond the Tiber, under a severe pe­

nalty in case of their return. Their place was, how­

ever, supplied by a body of fresh colonists, so that

the city continued to be not less populous than be­

fore. (Liv. viii. 14.)

From thia time Velitrae sank into the condition of

an ordinary municipal town, and we hear little of it

in history. It ia mentioned incidentally on occasion

of some prodigies that occurred there (Liv. xxx. 38,

tt*H. 1, 9), but with this exception its name is not

asain mentioned till the close of the Republic. We

bear, however, that it was a flourishing municipal

town, and it derived some celebrity at the commence­

ment of the Empire from the circumstance of its

having been the native place of the Octavian family,

from which the emperor Augustus was descended.

The Octavii indeed claimed to be descended from the

ancient Roman f.imily of the same name; but it is

certain that both the grandfather and grcat-grsnd-

faxher of Augustus were merely men of equestrian

rank, who held municipal magistracies in their native

town. (Suet. Aug. 1, 2 ; Dion Cass. xlv. 1.) Ac­

cording to the Liber Coloniaruin, Velitrae had

I eceared a fresh bixly of colonists in the time of the

lirawchi; but it continned to retain its municipal

rank until the reign of Claudius, when it received a

military colony, and from thia time assumed the

title of a Colonia, which we find it bearing in inscrip­

tions) (£.io. Colon, p. 238 ; Zumpt, cfe Col. p. 383;

OreII. Inter. 1740, 3652). No mention of the city

occurs in history under the Roman Empire, but its

name i» found in the geographers, and inscriptions

testify that it continued to exist as a flourishing

town down to near the close of the Empire. (Strab.

v. p. 237 ; Plin. iii. 5. s. 9 ; Sil. Ital. viii. 376;

Nibby, fh'ntomi, vol. iii. p. 450.) It appears to

lisve aabeeqnenlly suffered severely from the ravages

of the barbarians, but continued to subsist through-

oat the middle ages: and the modern city of VeUetri

etill occupies the site of the sncient one, though

it txau no remains of antiquity. Its position is

irer-ir similar to that of Lanuviuin (Cieita Lavinin),

on at projecting rock 0r spur of hill, standing nut from

ti»« more elevated group of the Alhan hills, and

ris>inc like a headland above the plain of the Potnp-

l: ne Marshes, which lie stretched out beneath it.

*1'1>«? inscriptions which have been discovered there  
Ji»ve> been published by Cardinali (Inscriiioni A nliche

I V/s'sVnsr. 4to. Roma, 1823). From one of these we

ataaxn that the ancient city possessed an amphitheatre,

»hirb was repaired as late as the reign of Valen-

t .rjiana, but no traces of it are now visible. It bad

^Jjpo tetnple* of Apollo, Hercules and Mars, as well

ma o4 the Sabine divinity Sancus. (Liv. xxxii. I.)

plixiy ootices the territory of Velitrae as producing

a wine of great excellence, inferior only to the Faler-

nian (I'lin. xiv. 6. s. 8). [E. H. B.]

VELLAVI or VELAUXI, a people of Gallia.

In the passage of Caesar (B. G. vii. 75) some

editions liave Velauni, but it is certain that what­

ever is the true form of the name, these Velauni are

the Vellaioi (OiirAAofoi) of Strabo (p. 190). The

Gabali and Velauni in Caesar's time were subject to

the Arverni. In Ptolemy (ii. 7. § 20) the name

is Velauni (Ow/Aawoi), but he pnts them next to

the Auscii, which is a great mistake. D'Anville

says that the diocese of Pui represents their ter­

ritory; but that this cannot be said of the small

province of Velluy, which was annexed to lAnguedoc

in the antc-revolutionary division of France. In tho

Notit. of the Provinces of Gallia, the capital of tho

Vellavi is Civitas Vcllavurum [liKVEssio]. [G. L.]

VELLAUNI. [Velausi.J

VELLAUNODUNUM, in Gallia. In B.C. 52

Caesar, leaving two legions and all the baggago at

Agedincum (Sent), marches on Genabum (Orleans').

On the second day he reaches Vellaunodunum.

(B. G. vii. 11.) In two days Caesar made a vallum

round Vellaunodunum, and on the third day the

place surrendered, and the people gave up their

anus. There is no evidence about the site of Vel­

launodunum, except that it was on the road from

Sens to Orleans, and was reached in the second

day's march from Sens, and that Caesar reached

Orleans in two days from Vellaunodunum. Caesar

was marching quick. D'Anville conjectures that

Vellaunodunum may be lieaune, in the old province

of Gatinois; for lieaune is about 40 Roman miles

from Sens, and the Roman army would march that

distance in two days. Benune is named Bclna in

the Pagus Vastinensis (Gatinois. Gastinois, Vat-

tinnis; Vavinccm), in the arts of a council held

at Svissons in 862, and D'Anville thinks that Belna

may be a corruption of Vellauna, which is the name

of Vellaunodunum, if we cut off the termination

dunum. (D'Anville, Xotiee, (fc.) [G. L.]

VELLKIA [Vkleia].

VE'I.LICA (OiwAAwa, Ptol. ii. 6. § 51), a town

of the Caiitabri in Hispania Tarraconensis. Ukert

(ii. pt. i. p. 144) places it in the neighbourhood of

ViUelba, to the,N. of Aquilar tie Campo. [T.H.D.]

VELLOCASSES. [Veixxames.]

VELOCASSES, as Caesar (B. U. ii. 4) writes

the name. Velloeasses in Pliny (iv. 18), and in

Ptolemy OmmAkmkIo-ioi (ii. 8. § 8). Caesar places

them in the country of the Bclgae, and consequently

north of the Seine. The number of fighting men

that they could muster in B. c. 57 was estimated at

10.000, unless Caesar means that they and the

Veromandui together had this number. In the di­

vision of Gallia by Augustus, the Vclocasses were

included in Lugdunensis. Their chief town was

Rotomagus (Rouen) on the north bank of the Setae.

West of the Velocasses were the Caleti, whose

country extended along the coast north of the Seine.

That part of the country of the Velocasses which

is between the rivers Amlelle and Oise, became in

modern times Vexin Normand and Vexim Fruncais,

the little river Eptt forming the boundary between

tbe two Vexins. [U. L.]

VELPI MONTES (to OfoAva Son, Ptol. iv. 4.

§ 8), a range of mountains on tlie \V. borders of

Cyrenaica, in which were the sources of the river

Lathon. £T. H. D ]

VELTAE (Ow'Atoi, Ptol. iii. 5. § 22), a people

of European Sannatia, dwelling on both banks of

4 u 3

