406 NAXUANA NAXOS.

aristocratical party appear to have again got the

upper hand; but they were after a short time ex­

pelled by the people, and applied for assistance to

Aristagoras of Miletus. The Persians, at the per-

suasion of Aristagoras, sent a large force in B. c.

501 to subdue Naxos: the expedition proved a fail­

ure; and Aristagoras, fearing the anger of the Per­

sian court, persuaded the Iouians to revolt from the

great king. (Herod, v. 30—34.) At this period

the N ixians had 8000 hoplites, many ships of war,

and numerous slaves. (Herod, v. 30, 31.) From

the 8000 hoplites we may conclude that the free

population amounted to 50,000 souls, to which num­

ber we may add at least as many slaves. In n. c.

490 the Persians under Datis and Artaphernes landed

upon the island, and in revenge for their former

failure laid it waste with fire and sword. Most of

the inhabitants took refuge in the mountains, but

those who remained were reduced to slavery, and their

city set on fire. (Herod, vi. 96.) Naxos became a

dependency of Persia; but their four ships, which

were sent to the Persian fleet, deserted the latter and

fought on the side of Grecian independence at the

battle of Salamis. (Herod, viii. 4,6.) They also

took part in the battle of Plalaeae. (Diod. v. 52.)

After the Persian wars Naxos became a member of

the confederacy of Delos under the headship of

Athens; but about B.C. 471 it revolted, and was

subdued by the Athenians, who reduced the Naxians

to the condition of subjects, and established 500

Athenian Cleruclis in the island. (Time. i. 98, 137;

Plut. Veriel 11; Paus. i. 27. § 6.) From this

time Naxos is seldom mentioned in ancient history.

It was off Naxos that Chabrias gained a signal victory

over the Lacedaemonian fleet in b. c. 376, which

restored to Athens the empire of the sea. (Xen.

Hell. v. 4. § 60, seq.; Diod. xv. 34.) During the

civil wars of Rome Naxos was for a short time sub*

ject to the Rhodians. (Appian, B. C. v. 7.)

After the capture of Constantinople by the Latins

in 1204, the Aegaean sea fell to the lot of the Vene­

tians; and Marco Sanudo, in 1207, took possession

of Naxos, and founded there a powerful state under

the title of the Duchy of the Aegaean Sea (Dux

Aegaei Pclagi). He built the large castle above the

town, now in ruins, and fortified it with 12 towers.

His dynasty ruled over the greater part of the Cy-

clades for 360 years, and was at length overthrown

by the Turks in 1566. (Finlay, Medieval Great,

p. 320, seq.) Naxos now belongs to the new king­

dom of Greece. Its population does not exceed

12,000, and of these 300 or 400 are Latins, the de­

scendant* of the Venetian settlers, many of whom

bear the names of the noblest families of Venice.

The ancient capital of the island, also called

Naxos, was situated upon the NW. coast. Its site

is occupied by the modem capital On a small de­

tached rock, called Paliti, about 50 yards in front

of the liarbour, are the ruins of a temple, which tra­

dition calls a temple of Dionysus. The western

porta] still remains, consisting of three huge marble

slabs, two perpendicular and one laid across, and is

of elegant, though simple workmanship. A drawing

of it is given by Tournefort. Stcphanus B. men­

tions another town in Naxos called Tragia or Tra-

gaea («. v. Tpoyfa), but which lioss believes to be

the small island Mdiaret, between Naxos and Do-

nussa. Aristotle also (an. A then. viii. p. 348) men­

tioned a place, named Lestadae (Ai)OTcioai), of which

nothing further is known.

In the centre of the island a mountain, now called

y.in. rises to the height of 3000 feet From in

summit 22 islands may be counted; and in the dis­

tance may be seen the outline of the mountains of

Asia Minor. This mountain appears to have ben

called l)iiu» (Ap(or) in antiquity (Diod. r. 51); ha

modern name is probably derived from the aniieat

name of the island (Dia). On it there is a curious

Hellenic tower; and near the bottom, on the naa

towards Philoti, an inscription, Zpot Aroi MnAateie*.

Another mountain is called Kortmo* (to K<v<t>i» i.

which is evidently an ancient name, and reminds one

of the Naxian nymph Coronis, who brought op lbs

young Dionysus (Diod. r. 52). The mountains of

Naxos consist partly of granite and partly of marble,

the hitter being scarcely inferior to that of Pans.

Good whetstones were also obtained from Nana,

(Hesych. ». v. Ka(!a Aiflot; Plin. xxxvi. 6. a. 9.)

There arc several streams in the island, on* of which

in ancient times was called Iiiblus (BiSAoi, Steps.

II. ■-'. A Bit'Aii-n).

The fertility of Naxos has been equally celebrated

in ancient and modern times. Herodotus says that

it excelled all other islands in prosperity (v. 28).

It produces in abundance corn, oil, wine, and fruit

of the finest description. In consequence of the ex­

cellence of its wine Naxos was celebrated in the

legends of Dionysus, particularly those relating to

Ariadne. [See Diet of Biogr. art. Ariadxe.]

Moreover, the priest of Dionysus gave his name to

the year, like the Archon Eponymus at Athens.

(Ilorkh, Inter. 2265.) The finest wine of Naxos

is now produced at a place called Aperatko*. It is

a superior white wine, and is celebrated in the

islands of the Aegaean under the name of Baettmt

Wine.

The plant which produces lsdanum is frond at

Naxos; and in Thevenot's time it was collected from

the beards of goats, in the manner described by

Herodotus (iii. 112). Emery is also found than,

particularly in the southern part of the island, aad

forms an article of export. The goats of Ksxa

were celebrated in antiquity. (Allien, xii. p. 54" )

One of the most remarkable curiosities in the

island is an unfinished colossal figure, still lying ia

an ancient marble quarry near the northern extremity

of the island. It is about 34 feet in length, and

has always been called by the inhabitants a figure

of Apollo. On the side of the hill, at the dittaace

of five minutes from the statue, we still find the in­

scription, lpo$ xupl°u ttpov AtoAAm*os. Roes ecsv

jectures that the statue may have been intended a*

a dedicatory offering to Deloa. (Thereout, TrarrU,

p. 103, Engl, transl.; Tournefort, lovooe, rei. i.

p. 163, Engl, transl.; Leake, Sorthrrn Grmn,

vol. iii. p. 93; Ross, liritm aufdem Gritck. Imtrim.

vol. i. p. 22, seq.; Grttter, /As .Vnjro /amis, lUi.

1833- Curtius, A'ojxw, llerl. 1846.)

cow or the ui-axD or xaxoa.

NAXL'A'NA (NajJoudVa. Ptol. T. 13. $ It), a

city on the N. bank of the river Araxea, Bow .V «ri-

dgictw, a city of some importance in Armenian lus»

