MYSIA. MYSIA. 389

of a province In the north-west of Asia Minor,

which according to Strabo (xii. p. 572) was derived

from the many beech-trees which grew about Mount

Olympus, and were called by the Lydians fivaoi.

Others more plausibly connect the name with the

Celtic moeie, a marsh or swamp, according to which

Mysia would signify a marshy country. This sup­

position is supported by the notion prevalent among

the ancients that the Mysians had immigrated into

A>ia Minor from the marshy countries about the Lower

Danube, called Moesia, whence Mysia and Moesia

would be only dialectic varieties of the same name.

Hence, also, the Mysians are sometimes mentioned

with the distinctive attribute of the "Asiatic," to

distinguish them from the European Mysians, or

Moesians. (Eustath. ad Dion. Per. 809; Schol. ad

AfMm RlioaW. 1115.)

The Asiatic province of Mysia was bounded in

the north by the Propontis and the Hellespont, in

the west by the Aegean, and in the south by Mount.

Temnus and Lydia. In the east the limits are not

accurately defined by the ancients, though it was

bounded by Bithynia and Phrygia, and we may

assume the river Rhyndacus and Mount Olympus to

hate, on the whole, formed the boundary line.

(Str&b. xii. pp. 564, &c, 571.) The whole extent of

country bearing the name of Mysia, was divided into

five parts : — 1. Mvsia Minor (Moo-/o ri fiiKpa), that

is, the northern const-district on the Hellespont and

Propontis. as far as Mount Olympus; it also bore the

name of Mysia Hellespontiaca, or simply Hellesiwntus,

and its inhabitants were called Hellespontii (Ptol. V.

2. §§ 2. 3, 14; Xenoph. Ages. i. 14); or, from

Mount Olympus. Mysia Olyrnpene (Mucin tj 'OAvja-

wwr^ (Slrab. xii. p. 571). This Lesser Mysia em­

braced the districts of Morkxe, Aiikettenk and

the Apian plain ('AwYas weiW; Strab. xii. pp. 574,

576.) 2. Mysia Major (Mueria % /ttydAr)'), form­

ing the *outhern part of the interior of the country,

including a trait of country extending between Troas

and Aeolis as fur as the bay of Adramyttium. The

principal city of this part was Pergamum, from

which the country is also called Mysia Pergamene

(Mwria r) ntpyapnvii: Strab. I. c.; Ptol. v. 2.

§| 5, 14.) 3. Troas (ij Tpwdis), the territory of

ancient Troy, that is, the northern part of the

western coast, from Sigeium to the bay of Adra-

myttram. 4. Aeoijs, the southern part of the

<*»*;, especially that between the rivers Caicus and

Hermus. 5. TetTHRANiA (i TfvSpavia'), or the

district on the soutliern frontier, where in ancient

times Teuthra3 is said to have formed a Mysian

kmptora. (Strab. xii. p. 551.)

These names and divisions, however, were not

the tame at all times. Under the Persian do­

minion, when Mysia formed a part of the second

•stnpj (Herod, iii. 90), the name Mysia was ap­

plied only to the north-eastern part of the country,

that i», to Mysia Minor; while the western part of

the cast of the Hellespont bore the name of Lesser

Phryeia. and the district to the south of the latter

that of Troas. (Scylax, p. 35.) In the latest times

of the Roman Empire, that is, under the Christian

emperors, the greater part of Mysia was contained

in the province bearing the name of Hellespontus,

while the southern districts as far as Troas belonged

to the province of Asia. (Hierocl. p. 658.)

TV greater part of Mysia is a mountainous

•""try, being traversed by the north-western

branches of Mount Taurus, which gradually slope

<!>*& towards the Aegean, the main branches being

Mount Ida and Mount Temki'S. The country is

also rich in rivers, though most of them are small,

and not navigable; but, notwithstanding its abun­

dant supply of water in rivers and lakes, the

country was in ancient times less productive than

other provinces of Asia Minor, and many parts of it

were covered with marshes and forests. Besides the

ordinary products of Asia Minor, and the excellent

wheat of Assns (Strab. xv. p. 725), Mysia was cele­

brated for a kind of stone called lapis assius (aap-

Koipdyof'), which had the power of quickly consum­

ing the human body, whence it was used for coffins

(sarcophagi), and partly powdered and strewed over

dead bodies. (Dioscorid. v. 141; Plin. ii. 98,

xxxvi. 27; Steph. B. *. v. "Aaaos.) Near the coasts

of the Hellespont there were excellent oyster beds.

(Plin. xxxii. 21; Catull. xviii. 4; Virg. Georg.

i. 207; Lucan, ix. 959; comp. Thcophrast. hist.

Plant, i. 6. 13.)

The country of Mysia was inhabited by several

tribes, as Phrygians, Trojans, Aeolians, and Mysians;

but we must here confine ourselves to the Mysians,

from whom the country derived its name. Mysians

are mentioned in the Iliad (ii. 858, x. 430, xiii. 5),

and seem to be conceived by the poet as dwelling

on the Hellespont in that part afterwards called

Mysia Minor. Thence they seem, during the period

subsequent to the Trojan War, to have extended

themselves both westward and southward. (Strab.

xii. p. 665.) Herodotus (vii. 74) describes them as

belonging to the same stock as the Lydians, with

whom they were always stationed together in the

Persian armies (Herod, i. 171), and who probably

spoke a language akin to theirs. Strabo (vii.

pp. 295, 303,~ xii. pp. 542, 564, &c.) regards them

as a tribe that had immigrated into Asia from

Europe. It is difficult to see how these two state­

ments are to be reconciled, or to decide which of

them is more entitled to belief. As no traces of tho

Mysian language have come down to us, we cannot

pronounce a positive opinion, though the evidence, so

far as it can be gathered, seems to be in favour of

Strabo's view, especially if we bear in mind the

alleged identity of Moesians and Mysians. It is,

moreover, not quite certain as to whether the

Mysians in Homer are to be conceived as Asiatics or

as Europeans. If this view be correct, the Mysians

must have crossed over into Asia either before, or

soon after the Trojan War. Being afterwards pressed

by other immigrants, they advanced farther into the

country, extending in the south-west as far as Per­

gamum, and in the east as far as Catacecaumcne.

About the' time of tho Aeolian migration, they

founded, under Teuthras, the kingdom of Teuthrania,

which was soon destroyed, but gave the district in

which it had existed its permanent name. The

people which most pressed upon them in the north

and east seem to have been the Bithynians.

In regard to their history, the Mysians shared the

fate of all the nations in the west of Asia Minor.

In B. c. 190, when Antiochus was driven from

Western Asia, they became incorporated with the

kingdom of Pergamus; and when this was made

over to Kome, they formed a part of the province of

Asia. Respecting their national character and insti­

tutions we possess scarcely any information; but if

we may apply to them that which Posidonius (tn

Strab. vii. p. 296) states of the European Moesians,

they were a pious and peaceable nomadic people,

who lived in a very simple manner on the produce of

their flocks, and had not made great advances in

cc 3

