ROMA. ROMA. 85)

re«l md mmt lofty of all the aqueducts, being

Ml pusis, or nearly 59 miles, long, and its

in mt oreasixnallj 109 feet high. (Front. 15.)

i i!» ra completed by the emperor Claudius,

ix»itj from tbe inscription still extant upon its

:» ov« tl* Porta Magniire; where both

B ll» city on the same arch, the Anio Novus

ring over the Claudia. Hence it was conducted

9 the CaeGan hill on the Arcis Nehoniani or

f.:jH(i!CTA!ii. which tenninated, as we have

-«:v 'tii near the temple of Claudius.  
\y I'rwopius mentions fourteen aqueducts, five

'*>i triQ't have been adiled between the time of

•:; i< mo of that historian; but respecting only

hart we any certain information. The first of

• i> pnitaiily the Aql'a Trajana, which we

nr upon coins of Trajan, and which is

Tt:it;.«ied in the Acta Martyr. S. Anion. The

tiien from the neighbourhood of the

i' Shcinus (I.ago di Bracciano), and, being

tortra to the height of the Janiculum, served to

v.* Milt under that hill. (Procop. U. G. i. 19.)

d'Kl still serves to convey the .4con« Puola,

i. tam, has been spoilt by water taken from

hi*. U ra also called Cut IK I A.

Aor.v Alexandria was constructed by

nprnr Alexander Severus for the use of his

'lUmprid. Alex. 25.) Originally it was the

v t-'iat now called Aequa Felice, but con-

4 it a lower level.

• A.ji a Sevt.riana is supposed to have been

\f :lie emperor Septimius Severus for the use

> «tbi in the 1st Region; but there is no

art to establish its execution.

• Aqr/A Axtostimana was probably executed

iicaUa fur the service of his great baths in the

B«gwo; but this also is unsupported by any

Kwi proofs. (Canina, Indie, p. 620.) The

i ir.i history of a few other aqueducts which

fed mentioned are too obscure to

■ »<iot here.

hei not belong to this subject to notice the

'Wit. an account of which will be found

vat Lrad.

m and Literature ok Romas Topo­

graphy.

« 'h» exception of existing monuments, the

£d most authentic sources for the topography

far* the passages of ancient authors in which

-■ kriliries are alluded to or described. In-

• area valuable source of information. Ry

■>«: .reportant of these is the Monumknti jr

lorn, er copy of the record left by Augustus

ar-irus; aa account of which is given else-

[■V4. L p. 154.] To what is there said we

I* »U that tbe best and most useful edition of

runest is that published at Rerlin with the

'' J of Frani. and a commentary by A. W.

(IMS, 4to. pp. 120). Another valuablo

'-r. tiwagh not nearly so important as the

*. ;ifa«ord, U that called the Rasis Capi-  
'('-rater, eel), containing the numcs of the

S Bepaw (the lat, 10th, lath, 13th, and

•taw curatores and vieomttgiatri erected

■arat to Hadrian. It will be found at

• < bVkrr's llandbuch, vol. i. We may

*'.»»: unarm sources of this description the  
ra* 1 Calendars which have been found in

H»t«, sad which arc frequently useful by

J •!» aita of temples where certain sacrifices

were performed. For the most part the original

marbles of these fragments have disappeared, and

the inscriptions on them are consequently only ex­

tant in MS. copies. One of the most ancient monu­

ments of this kind is the Fasti Maffeorum or

Calendarium Mafkeanum, so called from its

having been preserved in the Palazzo Mnffei. With

a few lacunae, it contains all the twelve months; but

what little information that is to be found in it, be­

sides the principal festivals, relates chiefly to Au-

eustus. The next in importance is the Fasti

Praknkstini, discovered at Praeneste (Palettrina)

in 1774. Verrius Flaccus, the celebrated gram­

marian, arranged and annotated it, caused it to be

cut in marble, and erected it in the forum at Prae­

neste. (Suet. 1U. Gramm. c. 17.) Only four or

five months are extant, and those in an imperfect

state. The Calexdarium Amitehninim was

discovered at Amiternum in 1703, and contains the

months from May to December, but not entire. The

calendar called Fasti Cafrahicohum, so named

from its having formerly been preserved in the Pa-

lazy* Cajtranica, contains August and September

complete. Other calendars of the same sort are the

Aktiati.nlm, Vkxisinum, &c. Another lapidary

document, but unfortunately in so imperfect a state

that it often serves rather to puzzle than to instruct,

is the Capitoijnf. Plan. This is a large plan of

Rome cut upon marble tablets, and apparently of

the age of Septiinius Severus, though with subse*

quent additions. It was discovered by the architect

Giovanni Antonio Dosi, in the pontificate of Pius

IV., under the church of iSS. Cosmo e Damiano;

where, broken into many pieces, it was used as a

covering of the walls. It came into the possession

of Cardinal Farncse, but was put away in a lumber

room and forgotten for more than a century. Reing

rediscovered, it was published in 1G73, in 20 plates,

by Giovanni Pietro Bellori, librarian to Queen Chris­

tina; and subsequently at the end of the 4th vo­

lume of the Thesaurus of Gracvius. The original

fragments were carried to Naples with the other

property of the Famese family, and were subse­

quently given by the king of Naples to Pope

Benedict XIV. In 1742 Benedict presented them

to the Capitoline Museum at Rome, where they now

appear on the wall of the staircase; but several of

the pieces had been lost, for which copies, after the

ilesigns of Rellori and marked with a star, were

substituted. On these fragments the plans of some

ancient buildings may be made out, but it is very

seldom that their topographical connection can be

traced.

Amongst the literary records relating to Roman

topography, the first place must lie assigned to the

Nktitia. The full title of this work is: Notitia

Dignitatum utriusque 7m/>en'i, or in Partibus Ori-

cntis et Occidents; and it is a statistical view of

the Roman empire, of which tbe description of Rome

forms only a small portion or appendix. It cannot

Iw later than the reign of Constantine, since no

Christian church is mentioned in it, and indeed no

building later than that emperor; nor, on the other

hand, can it be earlier, since numerous buildings of

the 3rd century, and even some of Constantinc's,

are named in it. The deMgn of it seems to have

been, to name the principal buildings or other objects

which marked the boundaries of the different Re­

gions; but we are not to assume that these objects

are always named in the order in which they oc­

curred, which is far from being the case. This

3l 2

