S82 MARSI. MAESYABAF-

•11 sides by lofty, or strongly marked mountain

ridges, may be considered as constituting the natural

limits of their territory. But towards the NE. wc

find that Alba Fucensis, though certainly belonging

to this natural district, and hence sometimes de­

scribed as belonging to the Marsi (I'tol. iii. 1. § 57;

Sil. ltal. viii. 507). was more properly an Aequian

city [ Ai.ba Fickssis] ; while, on the other band.the

upper valley of the Liris (though separated from

the lake by an intervening mountain ridge) was

included in the Marsic territory, as Antinnm (Civita

dA ntino) was unquestionably a Marsian city. [ A n-

tiniim] On the N. the Marsi were separated from

the Sabine* and Yestini by the lofty group of the

Monte Velino and its neighbours; while on the S.

another mountain group, of almost equal elevation,

separated them from the northern valleys of Sam-

nium and the sources of the Sagrus (Saitoro). On

the K.. a ridge of very inferior height, but forming a

strongly marked liarrier, divided them from the IV

ligni, who occupied the valley of the Giao, a tribu­

tary of the Atemus. From its great elevation above

the sea (2176 feet at the level of the lake), even

morn than from the mountains which surrounded it,

the land of the Marsi had a cold and ungenial climate,

and was ill adapted for the growth of corn, but pro­

duced abundance of fruit, as well as wine, though

the latter was considered harsh and of inferior qua­

lity. (Sil. Ital. viii. 507; Allien, i. p. 26; Martial,

xiii. 121, xiv. 11G.)

The principal town of the Marsi was MAimr/-

vll'M, the ruins of which are still visible at S. Bene­

detto, on the K. shore of the lake Fucinus. This

was indeed (if Alba Fucensis be excluded) probably

tho only place within their territory which deserved

the name of a city. The others, as we are told by

Silius Italicus, though numerous, were for tho most

part obscure places, rather fortified villages (castella)

than towns. (Sil. Ital. viii. 510.) To this class

belonged, in all probability, the three places mentioned

by Livy (x. 3) as having been taken in n. c. 301

by the dictator M. Valerius Maxitnus,—Milionia,

l'lestina, and Fresiiia ; all three names are other­

wise wholly unknown, and there is no clue to their

aite. Winy, however, assigns to the Marsi the fol-

lowing towns :—Ahxantia (Anxantini), the name

of which is found also (wri'ten AjtXATtNi) in an

inscription, and must have b*en situated near An-

drmmno or Scunjola, in the immediate neighbour­

hood of Alba (Hoare's CUutical Tour, vol. i. p. 367;

Mommsen, Inter. It Ar. 5028); Antini'M (Anti-

nates), now Ciriln J'A ntino; I.rct's (I.ucenses),

more properly I.iris Axoitiae, still called Lugo,

on the W. bank of the lake ; and a " populns" or

community, which lie terms Fucenses, who evidently

derived their name from the lake; but what part of

its shores they inhabited is uncertain. Besides

these he notices a tradition, mentioned also by Soli-

nus, that a town named Archippe, fonnded by the

mythical Marsy3s, had been swallowed up in the

waters of the lake. (Plin. iii. 12. s. 17; Solin. 2.

§ 6.) From the number of inscriptions found at

Tratacco, a village near the S. end of the lake, it

would apjear to liave been certainly an ancient site;

bat its name is unknown. (Mommsen, /, c. p. 295.)

The only town of the Marsi mentioned by Ptolemy

(iii. 1. § 57) besides Alba Fucensis, is a place which

he calls Aex (Af{), a name in all probability cor­

rupt, for which we sli"iild perhaps read "Af(a,

the Anxatia or Anxantia of Pliny. CKttrKXjctA,

a. place known only from the Itineraries, was situated I

on the Via Valeria, at the foot of the pas* Indira;

over the Mons Imeus into the valley of tbe I'rli-m.

This remarkable pass, now called the ForcadiCanur.,

must in all agea have formed the principal line U

communication between the Marsi and their eastern

neighbours, the Peligni and MamirinL Another

natural line of communication ltd from tbe basin of

the Fucinus near Celano to the valley of tbe Aur-

nus near Aquila. It must be this line which was

followed by a route obscurely given in the Ta­

bula as leading from Aveia through a place called

F'rusteniae (?) to Alba and Marruvinna (Tat.

Pent.). [E. H. B.]

MARSIGNI, a German tribe, mentioned only by

Tacitus (Germ. 43), probably occupying the north

of Bohemia, about tbe Vpper Elbe. In language

and manners they belonged to the Suevi. (L'ump.

Zeuas, Z>ie Deutsche*, p. 124.) [L-*i]

MARSO'NIA (MofwoWa), or MAKSi/XICM

(Tab. Petit), a place in Upper Pannonia, south of tbe

river Savus.ou the road between Siscia and Servitiun;

is identified by some with the town of Juenoriz, at the

mouth of tho Inna into the Sarc. (i'tol. u 16. $

7; Geogr. Rav. iv. 19.) [L^]

MARSYABAE (Mopo-KufaQ. a town of the Kha-

manitae, an Arabian tribe, mentioned by Strain as

the utmost limit of the Human expedition under

Aelins Gallus, the siege of which be was obliged to

abandon after six days for want of water, and to

commence his retreat. The only direct clue afforded

by Strabo to the position of the town is that it was

two days distant from the Frankincense country:

but tbe interest attaching to this expedition—whirs

promises so much for the elucidation of the classical

geography of Arabia, but has hitherto served uaiy

still further to perplex it—demands an investiga­

tion of its site in connection with the other placet

named in the only two remaining vemona of tbe

narrative. It will be convenient to consider,—( L ) the

texts of the classical authors. (II.) Tbe coenmm-

tarics and glosses of modern writers on tbe soKjtct.

(III). To offer such remarks as may serve either V>

reconcile and harmonise conflicting views, or to in­

dicate a more satisfactory result than has hitherto

been arrived at In order to study brevity, tin

conclusions only will be stated; the arguments on

which they are supported must be sought in tbe

writings referred to. I. To commence with StraUi,

a personal friend of tlie Roman general who com­

manded the expedition, and whose account, scanty

and unsatisfactory as it is, has all the authority eif

a personal narrative, in which, however, it will Ik

advisable to omit all incidents but such as dim-tly

bear on the geography. [Mctimary of Mayrapkj.

Gai.i.is, Aelii'8.] After a voyage of 15 days fraen

Cleopatris fARSisoK, No. 1], the expedition arrived

at Leuce Come (Atvrb *unv), a considerable sraw

port in the country of tbe Nabathaeans, under whote

treacherous escort Gallus bad placed his armammt

An epidemic among the troops obliged hint tn pes*

the summer and winter at this place. Setting out

again in the spring, they traversed for many days a

barren tract, through which they had to carry tbeit

water on camels. This brought them to tbe terri­

tory of Aretas, a kinsman of Obodas, tbe chivf »tmka

of the Nabathaei at the time. They took thirty

days to pass through this territory, owing to the

obstructions placed in their way by tbfir guide Syt-

laeua. It produced spelt and a few pahns. They

next came to the nomad country named Araresss

('Apoprn»^), under a sheikh named Sabos. Tun c

