ITALIA. 77 ITALIA.

around which sweeps the great chain of the Alps,

firming a continuum barrier from the shores of the

JMiterranean near Massilia to the head of the

Adriatic at Trieste (Tcrgeste). From the western

extremity of thU vast mountain chain, where the

ranges of the Maritime Alps abut immediately on

the s*a-shore, branches off the inferior, but still very

considerable, chain of the Apennines, which, after

swelling round the Ligurian gulf, stretches in an

unbroken line directly across to the shores of the

Adriatic, and then, turning abruptly to the SE., di­

vides the whole peninsula throughout its entire

length, until it ends in the promontory of Leuco-

pttra, on the Sicilian sea. [Apenninus.]

The precise limits of Italy can thus only be doubt­

ful on its northern frontier, where the massive ranges

of the Alps, though presenting, when viewed on the

krje sale, a vast natural barrier, are in fact in­

dented and penetrated by deep and irregular valleys,

which render it often difficult to determine the

natural boundary; nor has this been always adopted

a. tie political one. Along the coast of Liguria,

tetw«n Massilia and Genua, the Maritime Alps send

down successive ranges to the sea, forming great

headlands, of which the most striking are: that be­

tween .Vo/i and Finale, commonly regarded by modern

feo»raphers as the termination of the Maritime

Alp~; and the promontory immediately W. of Mo-

tan, which still bears the remains of the Tropaea

Aujnsti, and the passage of which presents the

greatest natural difficulties to the construction of a

road along this coast. This mountain headland

would probably be the best point to fix as the natural

limit of Italy on this side, and appears to have been

nwimonly regarded in ancient times as such; but

when Augustus first extended the political limits of

Italy to the foot of the Alps, he found it convenient

to carry them somewhat further W., and fixed on the

rirer Varus as the boundary; thus including Nicaea,

which was a coluny of Massilia, and had previously

been considered as belonging to Gaul. (Strab. iv.

1 p. 178. 184. v. p. 209; Plin. iii. 4. s. 5, 5. s. 6, 7;

Mr-la, ii. 4. § 9; Ftol. iii. 1 § I; Lucan, i. 404.)

TV.uph this demarcation does not appear to have

Uea always followed; for in the Itinerary of Anto-

ciira* (p. 296) we again find the Alpis Maritima

(roaning the mountain headland above described)

tiled as the boundary between Italy and Gaul: it

wis generally adopted, and has continued without

alteration to the present day.

The extreme NK. limit of Italy, at the head of

t!w Adriatic Gulf, is equally susceptible of various

deterniiua ion, and here also Augustus certainly

tranKTessed the natural limits by including Istria

within Uie confines of Italy. (Plin. iii. 18. s. 22;

Strib. v. p. 209, vii. p. 314.) But here, also, the

reasons of political convenience, which first gave rise

tu tlis extension, have led to its subsequent adoption,

a>«i I*tria is still commonly reckoned a part of Italy.

Tbe little river Formio, which flows into the Adriatic

!*'.««n Triate and Capo & istria, was previously

established as the boundary of Italy on this side:

l*t the range of the Julian Alps, which, after

tweepiiig round the broad plain of the Frwul, Bud-

Geal v approaches close to the Adriatic, near the sources

of the Timavus, and presents a continuous mountain

bs.Tter from thence to Trieste, would seem to con-

itilote the true natural limit.

Even between these two extremities, the chain of

tl* Alpi does not always form so simple and clearly-

nuikd a frontier as might at first be expected. It

would not, indeed, be difficult to trace geographically

such a line of boundary, by following the water-shed

or line of highest ridge, throughout: but the im­

perfect knowledge of the Alps possessed by tho

ancients was scarcely sufficient for such a purpose;

and this line was not, in ancient, any more than in

modern tithes, the actual limit of different nation­

alities. Thus, the Rhaetians, who in the days of

Strabo and Pliny were not comprised in Italy,

inhabited the valleys and lower ridges of the Alps

on the S. side of the main chain, down quite to the

borders of the plains, as well as the northern decli­

vities of the same mountains. Hence, a part of the

Southern Tirol, including the valley of the Adige

above Trent, and apparently the whole of tho Val-

teline, though situated on the southern side of tho

Alps, were at that time excluded from Italy: while,

at a later period, on the contrary, the two provinces

of Rhaetia Prima and Rhaetia Secnnda were both

incorporated with Italy, and the boundary, in con­

sequence, carried far to the N. of the central line of

geographical limit. In like manner the Cottian

Alps, which formed a separate district, under a tri­

butary chieftain, in the days of Augustus, and were

only incorporated with Italy by Nero, comprised the

valleys on both sides of the main chain; and the

provinces established in the latter periods of tho

Empire under the names of the Alpes Cottiae and

Alpes Maritimae, appear to have been constituted

with equally little reference to this natural boundary.

(Walckenaer, Geogr. des Gaules, vol. ii. pp. 21—36,

361,395.)

While Italy is bounded on the N. by the great

natural barrier of the Alps, it is to the chain of tho

Apennines, by which it is traversed in its entire

length, that it mainly owes its peculiar configuration.

This great mountain chain may be considered as the

back-bone or vertebral column of the Italian pen­

insula, which sends down offsets or lateral ridges

on both sides to the sea, while it forms, throughout

its long course, the water-shed or dividing ridge,

from which the rivers of the peninsula take their

rise. A detailed description of the Apennines has

already been given under the article Apknninls:

they are here noticed only as far as they are con­

nected with the general features of the physical

geography of Italy.

1. Northern Italy.—The first part of the

chain of the Apennines, which extends from the

point of their junction with the Maritime Alps along

the N. shore of the Gulf of Genoa, and from thence

across the whole breadth of Italy to the Adriatic

near Ariminum, constitutes the southern boundary

of a great valley or plain, which extends, without

interruption, from the foot of the Apennines to that

of the Alps. This broad expanse of perfectly level

country, consisting throughout of alluvial soil, is

watered by the great river Padus, or Po, and its

numerous tributaries, which bring down the waters

from the flanks both of the Alps and Apennines,

and render this extensive plain one of the most

fertile tracts in Europe. It extends through a space

of above 200 geog. miles in length, but does not

exceed 50 or 60 in breadth, nntil it approaches the

Adriatic, where the Alps beyond Vicema trend away

rapidly to the northward, sweeping in a semicircle

round the plains of the Friuli (which are a mere

continuation of the great plain of the Po), until they

again approach the Adriatic near Trieste. At the

same time the Apennines also, as they approach

towards the Adriatic, gradually recede from the

