SOMA. BOMA. 731

rci wu not situated in the place here assigned to

tot in the Foram Olitoriam ontaide the Porta

mra'alia As the opinion of so distinguished a

.u- u Jlrnnmsru is entitled to (Treat attention,

iball here briefly review his argument*. They

'b< ititfj is follows. That the temple of Janus

a lie Foram Olitorium may be shown from Ta-

i: "El Jano templum, quod apud Fonim Olito-

■ C Dailioi itruxerat (dedicarit Tiberius),"

u a. 49); aod also from Festus: "Rcligioni est

w<kn porta Cinnentali egredi et in aede Jani,

i nl «tri earn, senatum habcri, quod ea egrcssi

r ■ntnli r'abii apud Cremeram oinncs interfecti

..lit. iaatde Jani S.C. factum esset, ut proficis-

:.-i*"(tt, 285, MU1L). But this temple was nn-

*Jly tie same as the famous one founded by  
i. uA Damns could only hare restored, not

'it; liaca it can be shown that there was only

It-i;pi( ({Janus at Home before the time of

'■aa Thus Ovid (as may be been in the pas-

»pooled) asks Janus, —

'V M tint Jani cur ataa sacratus, in urn,

H e ata juncta foria templa duobus habes?"

MT.f thing appears from the following passage

•Bid (x, 38.2), which shows that, before De­

ft meted the Janus Quadrifrons in the Forum

niram, the god had only one little temple: —

* ttnm exignoa habitabas ante Penates  
1'mrima qua medium Koma terebat iter.*'

* ia.t« situation of this only temple is also  
albj Servius (oa* Atn. vii. 607): " Sacrarium

J Nana Pompilius feccrat— Quod Numa in-

m, tnuttlatum est ad Forum Transitorium."

■faia Sacxarium hoc Numa Pompilius fecerat

onua Argiletum jnxta theatram Marcelli."

!> situation of the sole temple of Janus is

- V u* preponderance of the best authority,  
° ^< rest on mere conjecture.

trie wnarfcs of Momtnsen's we miss that ac-

'■( interpretation which is so necessary in

'< ;gMu«s of this description. The word

*tn'~.' us«d by Tacitus, denotes the erection  
nr> bfiktiag, and cannot be applied to the

mtoration of an ancient one. Nor, had there

'ii-r temple of Janus, would it have been

17 '.11 designate the precise situation of this

'T "ia "apud Forum Olitorium." Again, the

•f Orid refer, not to one temple, but to one

. »ak£, bowerrr, as we have seen, was con -

«to a sort of small temple. "When there

! Qarr Jani, why is jour image consecrated

1 w?" This, then, was not a temple in the

me of the word ; that is, a building of such

a* to kt fit for assemblies 01 the senate, but

tfct Kttfc aacdlnm described by Ovid. Let

: H nunsra's own description of it, drawn from

aan. and from that of Martial just quoted:

Jani aedes (quod luculentissime apparet

wois supra laudatis) non nisi Janus ali-

• 'nirju sire quadrifrons, Dei statua ornatns,

'•: Nana fecit, fornix erat pervius ad portam

'ti'#Ti spplicatus, quo transibant onirics qui

."« Martw Foroque Olitorio venicntes Boarium

*»w pttebant" (p. 307 ). But - overlooking  
as how the building of Numa could have been

4 b a gat* erected in the time of Servius —

1 ;»Mibit to cooceire that, as Mommsen in-

•■ 'v »on)> of Festus, the senate could have

Killed in a little place of this description,

the common thoroughfare of the Romans? Besides,

we have the express testimony of Livy, that the

Senatus Consultum, sanctioning the departure of

the Fabii, was made in the usual place for the

meetings of the senate,—the Curia Hostilia. "Con­

sul e Curia egressns, comitante Fabiorum agmine,

qui in vestibulo curiae, senatus consultum exspee-

tantes, steterant, domum rediit" (ii. 48). Livy is

certainly a better witness on such a point than Festus;

whose account, therefore, is overthrown, not only by

its inherent improbability, but also by the weight of

superior authority. All that we can infer from his

words is, that the temple of Janus, outside the Porta

Carmentalis, was sufficiently large to hold an as­

sembly of the senate ; but this circumstance itself is

sufficient proof that it could not have been the origi­

nal little temple, or saccltum, of Numa. There are

other objections to the account of Festus. It was

not ominous, as he says, to go out at the Carmental

gate, but to go out through the right arch of the

gate (" infelici via dextro Jano porlne Carmentalis

profecti, ad Creineram flumen perveniunt," lb. c. 49).

If the whole gate had been accursed, how could a

sacred procession like that of the virgins from the

temple of Apollo to that of Juno Begins, described

by Livy (xxvii. 37), have passed through it? Nor

can it be told whether the relative ea refers to the

Porta Carmentalis, as sense, or to aeiles Jani, as

grammar, requires. Further, it would be contrary

to the usual custom, as Becker correctly remarks

(Handbuch, p. 139, note), for the senate to assemble

outside of the gates to deliberate on a domestic

matter of this nature. Then, with reference to

Ovid's description, he could not have mentioned

the sacellum of Janus as adjoining two fora, had it

stood where Mommsen places it, where it would have

been separated from the Forum ltomonum by the

whole length of the Vicus Jugarius. Besides, it is

plain from the passage of the Fasti before quoted

that the original temple stood at the font of a clivus,

or descent from the Capitoline. Yet Mommsen puts

it at the very top of the hill over the Carmental

gate (" in ipso monte," p. 310, vide his plan at the end

of the volume), where the hill is most abrupt, and

where there could not possibly have been any clivus,

and the Porta Janualis at the bottom. We should

remark, too, that the reading, "arduus in valles et

fora clivus erat," is not a mere conjecture of Becker,

as Mommsen seems to think (p. 310), but the com­

mon reading; and that to substitute "per fora " in­

stead would make evident nonsense. Nor in that case

do we see how the temple could have been "apud

Forum Olitorium," as Tacitus says, even if apud only

means near, not at: and still less how it could have

adjoined the theatre of Marcel I us ("juxta thea-

trum Marcelli "), as indicated by Servius. What has

been said will also be sufficient to refute the last

named commentator in stating this to be the original

temple. He has evidently confounded the two.

We can therefore only agree in part with the

somewhat severe censure which Mommsen has pro­

nounced on Becker on this occasion. "At quod

somniavit de aede Jani sine sinmlacro (p. 259),

quod Festurn, quod Servium gravissimi erroris in-

cusavit (p. 139, n. 254. seq.), id vix condono

homini philulogo" (p. 307). It appears, we trust,

pretty plainly, that Festus and .Servius must have

been in error; but we cannot admit a temple with­

out an image. The explanation we have already

given, that Ovid is alludiug to a Janus, not to a

proper temple, may obviate the difficulty. But we

