ORCHOMENUS. ORCHOMENUS. 489

i, ud in the lowest part of the town the en-

coed space u nearly square. It is defended on tlie

k-*e*t side by a wall, which crossed the slope of the

al» snag the crest of a ledge of rock, which there

tarn a dimko in the slope. In this wall, which

j it ikree-frurths of the distance from the castle to

'la aoeasteTT, there are some foundations of the

r*t# *b»en funned the lower entrance into the city;

ud n the collide are many large masses of wrought

fcaw, the remain*, apparently, of some temple or

iias pabhe building. The southern wall of the

ett, which follows a line parallel to the Cephissus,

t r-ireabJe, with scarcely any intermission, through

• aiUxxe of three-quarters of a mile; and in many

uxt BFrcral courses of masonry are still extant,

T«t wall derires its flank defence from square towers,

m*fd for the roost part at long intervals, with an

Of-ncthate abort flank or break, in the line of wall.

• s ire places the masonry is of a very early age,

at a central it is of the third kind, or almost

The former belongs to the earlier Orcho-

f to the later city, and dates from the

either by Philip or the Pho-

• Towards the middle of the northern side the

■ ts roost precipitous, and here the

traceable. The circumference of the

tboot 2 miles. The citadel occupies a

t 40 yards in diameter, and seems to have

o; but three sides only re-

risible on the eastern

Fife* nek. At the northern angle are the

T a tower, and parallel to the north-western

i it a ditch cut in the rock, bey

i traces of an outwork. The hill is com-

| iba neighbouring part of Mount Acon-

as to have been of

to ancient warfare. The access to the

l titv was first by an oblique flight of

t wide, and cat oat of the rock; and

I direct flight of 60 steps of the same kind."

The monuments, which Pausanias noticed at

Orchomenus, were temples of Dionysus and the

Charites,—of which the latter was a very ancient

building,—a fountain, to which there was a de­

scent, the treasury of Minyns, tombs of Minyas and

Hesiod, and a brazen figure bound by a chain of iron

to a rock, which was said to be the ghost of Actaeon.

Seven stadia from' the town, at the sources of the

river Melas, was a temple of Hercules. The Trea­

sury of Atreus was a circular building rising to a

summit not very pointed, but terminating in a stone,

which was said to hold together the entire building.

(Paus. ix. 38.) Pausanias expresses his admira­

tion of this building, and says there was nothing

more wonderful cither in Greece or in any other

country. The remains of the treasury still exist at

the eastern extremity of the hill towards the lake, in

front of the monastery. It was a building similar to

the Treasury of Atreus at Mycenae. It was a

circular vault of massive masonry embedded in the

hill, with an arched roof, sunnounted probably by a

tumulus. The whole of the stone-work of the vault

has now disappeared, but its form is vouched for by

the circular cavity of the ground and by the descrip­

tion of Pausanias. It had a side-door of entrance,

which is still entire, though completely embedded in

earth up to the base of the architrave. There were

probably two great slabs in the architrave, as at

Mycenae, though one only is left, which is of white

marble, and of which the size, according to Leake,

is 16 feet in its greatest length, 8 in its greatest

breadth, and 3 feet ~1\ inches in thickness. The

diameter of the vault seems to have been about 41

feet. Kespecting the origin and destination of this,

and other buildings of the same class, some remarks

are made under Mycenae. [Vol. II. p. 383.] Strabo

remarks (ix. p. 416) that the Orchomenus of his

time was supposed to stand on a different site from

the more ancient city, the inundations of the lake

having forced the inhabitants to retire from the plain

towards Mt. Acontium, And Leake observes, that

this seems to accord with the position of the treasury

on the outside of the existing walls, since it can

hardly have been placed there originally. The acro­

polis, however, must always have stood upon the

hill; but it is probable, that the city in the height

of its power extended to the Cephissus.

COIN OF ORCHOMENUS.

The monastery of Skripu, which stands about

midway between the treasury and the river, proba­

bly occupies the site of the temple of the Charites;

for the pedestal of a tripod dedicated to the Charites,

which is now in the church, was found in an ex­

cavation made upon the spot. Some very ancient

inscriptions, of which two are now in the British

Museum, were found in the church of the monastery.

They are in the Orchomenian-Aeolic dialect, iu

which the digamma was used. (K. 0. Miiller,

Orchomenos und die Alinyer, Breslau, 1844, 2nd ed.;

Dodwell, Classical Tour, vol. i. p. 227, seq.; Leake,

Northern Greece, vol. ii. p. 144, seq.; Mure, Tour

