TEARI JULIENSES. 1117 TECELIA.

CJrt (Cales). The moat important are those of an

impttitbeatre and a theatre, situated near the Via.

Utiiia; bat numerous remains of other buildings

vt fiund scattered over a considerable space, though

It the most part in imperfect preservation. They

»r**H constructed of brick, and in the reticulated

iril*, and may therefore probably be all referred to

Jw :■ of the Roman Empire. Numerous in-

tripiiuos hare also been found, as well as coins,

r«n, intaglios, fee, all tending to confirm the ac-

•Jint given by Strabo of its ancient prosperity.

Ft manetli, vol. iii. p. 456; Hoare's Class. Tour,

iJ. i. pp. 249—264; Mommsen, Inscr. JL N. pp.

:09, 209).

At a short distance from Tea no are some mineral

prates, now called Le Caldarelie, which are evi-

''r the same with the "aquae acidulae,** men-

'•oed both by Pliny and Vitruvius as existing near

Vanum. (Plin. xxxi. 2.8.5; Vitruv. viii. 3. § 17.)

V remains of some ancient buildings, called //

■>y*o Xnoro, are still visible on the spot. [E. H. B.]

COIN OF TXAJfUX SIDKINL'M.

TEARl JULIENSES, Uie inhabitantsofa town of

e lkrcaonea in Hispania Tarraconensis (Plin. iii.

J 4). It is called by Ptolemy TtaptovXta, and

jcnbablv the modem Traygvera. [T. H. D.]

TEARUS (Plin. iv. 11. s. 18; Tiapos, Herod, iv.

i) now Teare, Drara,ov Drrc, a river in the SE.

Thrace, flowing in a S\V. direction, until it joins

• < <*itadrndos, their united waters fulling into the

"ur*-5, one of the prim-iral eastern tributaries of

i H'brna. Herodotus (L c.) states that the

l^~w of the Team* are equidistant from Heraeum

the Propootie and Apollonia on the Euxine; that

t are thirty-eight in number; and that, though

* a1! issue from the same rock, some of them are  
4, others warm. Their waters had the reputation,

*n; the neighbouring people, of being pre-eminently  
:ktnal, especially in cases of itch or mange

V>). On hia n.arch towards the Danube, Da-

i halted bia army for three days at the sources of

Teams, and erected a pillar there, with an in-

p:>ja commcniorative of their virtues, and of his

[J. R-]

TATE (TeaWa, Strab. Ptol.: Eth. Teatinus:

fft). the chief city of the Marrucini, was situated

> tull about 3 miles from the river Aternus, and

•tn the Adriatic. All the ancient geographers

ur in representing it as the metropolis or capital

of* the tribe (Strab. v. p. 241; Plin. iii. 12.

T: PliJ. iii- I. § 60); and Silius Italicus re-

rdly do*ice* it with the epithets "great" and

utnoos** (M magnum Teste," Sil. ItaL viiL

. Clarurn Teste, Id. xvii. 453); but, not with-

iing thia, we find no mention of it in his-

Ittscriptioaa, however, as well as existing

ir.t, concur in proving it to have Wen a

Ltlang and important town under the Roman

iiic. It was apparently the only municipal

in the land of the Marrucini, and heuce the

limits of its municipal district seem to have coincided

with those of that people. We learn from the Liber

Coloniarum that it received a body of colonists

under Augustus, but it did not bear the title of a

colony, and is uniformly styled in inscriptions a

municjpium. (Lib. Colon, p. 258; Orell. Inscr.

2175, 3853; Mommsen, Inscr. R. N. pp. 278,

279.) It derived additional splendour in the early

days of the Empire from being the native place of

Asinius Pollio, the celebrated statesman and orator;

indeed the whole family of the A&inii seem to have

derived their origin from Teate. Herius Asinius

was the leader of the Marrucini in the &>cial War,

and a brother of the orator is called by Catullus

"Marrucine Asini." (Liv. Epit. lxxiii.; Catull.

12. 1.) The family of the Vettii also, to which

belonged the Vettius Mareellus mentioned by Pliny

ii. S3, s. 85), appears to have belonged to Teate.

Mommsen, /. c. 5311.)

The Itineraries place Teate on the Via Valeria,

though from the position of the town, on a hill to

the right of the valley of the Atemus, the road

must have made a considerable dttour in order to

reach it (//in. Ant. p. 310; Tab. Prut.) Its name

is also noticed by P. Diaconus (ii. 20), and there

seems no doubt that it continued throughout the

middle ages to be a place of importance, and the

capital of the surrounding district. Chieti is still

one of the most considerable cities in this part of

Italy, with above 14,000 inhabitants, and is the

see of an archbishop. Still existing remains prove

that the ancient city occupied the same site as the

modern Chieti, on a long ridge of hill stretching

from N. to S., though it must have been con­

siderably more extensive. Of these the most im­

portant are the ruins of a theatre, which must

have been of large size; those of a large edifice

supposed to have been a reservoir for water, and

two temples, now converted into churches. One of

these, now the church of 5. Paolo, and considered,

but without any authority, as a temple of Hercules,

was erected by the Vettius Mareellus above noticed;

the other, from the name of Sta Maria del 7Vi-

caglio which it bears, has been conjectured to have

been dedicated to Diai.a Trivia. All these edifices,

from the style of their construction, belong to the

early period of the Roman Empire. Besides these,

numerous mosaics and other works of art have been

discovered on the site, which attest the flourishing

condition of Teate during the first two centuries

of the Christian era. (Romanelli, vol. iii. pp. 104

—109; Craven, Abruzzit vol. ii. pp. 8,9.) [E.H. B.]

COIN OF TKATB.

TEBENDA (Tc'&roa), a town in the interior of

Pontus Galaticus (Ptol. v. 6. § 9), is no doubt the

same as the Tebcnna mentioned by Anna Comnena

(p. 364, b.) as situated in the vicinity of Tra-

pezus. [L. S.]

TECE'LIA (TfKfAfa), a town placed by Ptolemy

C

