TAPruAn. TAPROBANE. 1091

twhiU, and public baths. (Proeop. de Aedif.

. I.) Nearer Alexandreia was a smaller town of

kvuM.(TanfftiptiT\ij<rloy 'AAcfovSoeuu, Steph.

/. r.; i hlipa, Strab. xvii. p. 800.) [ W. B. D.]

TAFfTAH or BETH-TAPPUAH, a city in

JoiiiH, upon the mountains of Judali, not far

KD Hebruo, which Robinson identifies with the

(-fill village of Teffuh, lying in the midst of olive-

ra and vineyards. (JaaA. xt. 53; Robinson,

ii ha. toI. ii. p. 71, 2nd ed.) There was

•tier Tappuah in the plain of Judah (Joth. xv.

); bat which of these was the place conquered by

'inn. cannot be determined. (Josh. xii. 17.)

TAFRffBASE (v Tawpufttvr;, Strab. i. 63, xv.

ll.ie.; Steph. B. «. v.; PtoL vii. 4; Plin. vi. 22.

!4; Mela, iii. 77; Ov. ear Pont. i. 5. 80), a very

:r kiaai, now Ceylon. It is situated to the SE.

It peninsula of i/motoion, and is all but joined

U continent by a reef now called Adam) Bridge,

lr ao island called Ramitur or Ramisceram

: tlx Kipv of Ptolemy (vii. 1. § 11) and the

ula Silis of Pliny (vi. 22. a. 24). (Comp.

Kaa, At. Ret. v. p. 39; Ritter, Erdt. vi. p. 63.)

fcprobane was not known to the writers of clas-

i uuiquity before tbe time of Alexander the Great,

liw various narratives which have reached the

subsequent to his invasion of the Panjab,

icfc often correct as to its natural productions, are

niirlj erroneous as to its position, its size, and its

*- Thus Onesicritus estimates it at 5000 stadia,  
izh whether this number implies length, breadth,

aomference, is not stated by Strabo (xv. p. 690).

w but, he is nearly correct, Rennell considering

U> i* about 660 miles. (See Map, and Memoir

sou.) lie adda that it was twenty days' sail

the coniinent — the ships being badly con-

and unfit for sailing; a view remarkably

r.iwd by Pliny, who notices the change in the

b of the voyage owing to the improved kind of

*>. and the shallow character of the intervening  
: (vi. 22. s. 24). Eratosthenes reduces the dis-

i to a navigation of seven days — the same time

liny states (i. c); bnt this is far too great

■k. xv. p. 691), as it is really little more than

aiei from its nearest shores to the mainland of

l*i<m. (Vincent, Toy. of Xearckut, i. p. 495;

.in Ind. Attn. Regitt. 1799.) Eratosthenes

L [core erroneous in the position he assigns to

•land, for he extends it 8000 stadia in the di­

al of Africa, (Strab. /. c), while the author of

'rrifjut If. Erythr. makes it reach almost to

aast of Azanim (c 61, ed. Mtiller) — an error

i has probably led to that of Edrisi, who has

uiaiwl C. Comorin with Madagascar, and in his

La» even placed this island to tbe E. of Ceylon.

* vippoara that Ceylon is not less than Britain

1.30), and Ptolemy gives it a length of more

I laxj miles, and a breadth of more than 700

l. § 9, Tin. 28. § 3). (Compare with this the

rimt of Marco Polo, which is, as to circum-

*. identical with Ptolemy, Le.; and Caesar  
wk. ap. Uackluyt't Voy. ii. pp. 225—227.)

» l.utory of ancient Ceylon falls naturally into

Leads: 1. What may be gathered from the

i' who followed the march of Alexander. 2.

"e may learn from the Roman writers. 3.

ciay be obtained from the Byzantines.

:ij times preceding the invasion of India by

■iier we hare no distinct notice in classical

7. vet it may be inferred from Pliny thnt

rrport of ita exiaten.ee had reached the West,

where he states that it had long been the opinion

that Taprobane was another world, and bore the

name of Antichthonns, bnt that it was determined to

be an island about the aera of Alexander (vi. 22. s.

24): while it is not impossible that Herodotus may

have heard some tradition on the subject, since he

states that cinnamon is produced in those countries

in which Dionysus was brought up (iii. Ill); from

which passage, however, it cannot be determined

whether the true cinnamon, that is the bark of the

shrub, is intended, or some other kind of cassia.

To the first class of writers belong Onesicritus,

the companion of Alexander, Megasthenes and Dai-

machus, who were sent as ambassadors by Seleucus

to Sandrocottus (Chandragupta') and his son Ami-

trochates (Amitraghdta), from whose memorials

almost all that is preserved in Strabo and in the

earlier portion of the notice in Pliny has been

taken. There is no reason to suppose that either

Onesicritus or Megasthenes themselves visited this

island; they probably collected, while in India, the

narratives they subsequently compiled.

The second class of writers are of the period

when the vast commerce of Alexandria had ex­

tended to India subsequent to the death of Strabo,

A. D. 24. (Groskurd, Proleg. in Strab. i. p. 16.)

Previous to this period, some few ships may have

reached India from Egypt; but, from Strabo's own

statement, they appear to have been those only of

private individuals (I. c). Pliny, the writer of the

Periplus of tbe Erythraean Sea, Marcian of Hera-

clem, Mela, and Ptolemy, belong to this class, and,

in the fulness of their narratives, show clearly how

much additional knowledge had been acquired dur­

ing the extension of the power of the early empe­

rors of Rome.

Lastly, under the head of Byzantine writers, we

have the remarkable account of the island in Coamas

Indicopleustes, the latest which belongs to the pe­

riod of ancient or classical history.

The most important notice is that of Pliny (/. c),

who Btates that ambassadors from the island were

received at Rome by the emperor Claudius, through

the instrumentality of the freedman of a certain

Annius Plocamus, who, after having been driven out

of his course upon the island, remained there six

months, and became intimate with the people and

their rulers. He states that Plocamus landed at a

port he calls Hippuros, which may be identified

with the modern Kudremalai, which means the

same in Sanscrit; and that the name of the king

was Rucbia, evidently tbe Indian Rajah: he adds

that the island contained 500 towns, the chief of

which was called Palaesimundum, and a vast lake

Megisba, from which flowed two rivers, one called

Cydara (Ktmdara or Kadambo in the Annals, now

Artpo). It is not possible accurately to determine

what modem place is to be identified with Mepi&ba,

but the Mahawanso speaks of enormous works of

this nature attributed to Vasabha and other early

kings. (Mah. pp. 65, 210, 221, 215.) Pliny

adds some astronomical facts, which are not

equally coincident with the truth; and remarks on

the richness of the island in precious stones and

metals, and on the fineness of the climate, which

extended the life of man beyond its usual limits.

We may mention also, that Diodoras tells a

remarkable story, which has been generally held to

refer to Ceylon, though this is not capable of proof.

According to him Iambulus, the son of a merchant,

on his wav to the spice countries, was taken prisoner

4a 2

