mr, MESSANA. MESSAXA.

iii.ins are mentioned as sending assistance to Dion

against the younger Dionysius; and after the death

of Dion, they repulsed an attempt of Cnllippus to

make himself master of their city. (Diod. xvi. 9;

Plut. Dion, 58.) At a somewhat later period,

however, they fell under the yoke of a tyrant named

Hippon. from whom they were freed by Timoleon,

(n. c. 339), and at the same time detached from

the alliance of Carthape, to which they had been for

a time compelled to adhere. (Diod. xvi. 69; Hut.

TimoL 20, 34.)

Hut Messana did not lonp enjoy her newly re­

covered freedom. Soon after the establishment of

Apathocles at Syracuse, that monarch turned his

arms apainst Messana, and, thouph his first attempts,

in n.c. 315. were unsuccessful, and he was even

compelled to restore the fortress of Mylae, of which

he had for a time made himself master, a few years

later, B.C. 312, he succeeded in establishing his

power at Messana itself. (Diod. xix. 65,102.) But

the severities which he exercised apainst the party

which had opposed him completely alienated the

minds of the Sfcssanians, and they readily embraced

the opportunity of the defeat of the tyrant at

Krnoinus in the following year, b. c. 311, to throw

off his yoke and declare in favour of the Car­

thaginian alliance. (Id. xix. 110.) The death of

Apathocles, soon after, brought upon the Mes-

senians even heavier calamities than his enmity had

done. The numerous bands of mercenary troops,

chiefly of Campanian, or at least Oscan, extraction,

which the despot had assembled in Sicily, were, after

his death, compelled by the Syracusans, with the

support of the Carthaginians, to quit the inland.

But, having arrived with that object at Messana,

where they were hospitably received by the citizens,

and quartered in their houses, they suddenly turned

apainst them, massacred the male inhabitants, made

themselves masters of their wives, houses, and pro­

perty, and thus established themselves in undisputed

possession of the city. (Pol. i. 7; Diod. xxi. 18,

Exc. H. p. 493; Strab. vi. p. 268.) They now as­

sumed the name of Mamertini (Mofi«pT»voi), or

"the children of Mars,"* from Mainent, an Oscan

name of that deity, which is found also in old Latin.

(Diod. /. c.; Varr. L. L. v. 73.) The city, however,

continued to be called Messana, thouph they at­

tempted to chanpe its name to Mamertina: Cicero,

indeed, in several instances calls it "Mamertina

civitas" (Cic. Vtrr. ii. 5, 46, iii. 6, iv. 10, &c.),

but much more frequently Messana, thouph the in­

habitants were in his time universally called Ma-

mertini. The precise period of the occupation of

Messana by the Mamertines is nowhere stated.

Pokhins tells us that it occurred not lonp before

that of Ithepium by the Cam pa man* under Decius,

which may be referred to the year 280 u. c, while

it must have taken place some time after the death

of Apathocles in B.C. 289: the year 282 is that

commonly assigned, but within the above limits this

is meiely conjectural.

The Mamertines now rapidly extended their power

over the whole NE. anple of Sicily, and made them­

selves masters of several fortresses and towns. The

occupation of Rhegiuin by the Campanians, under

very similar circumstances, contributed to strengthen

their p-*wtion and they became one of the most

formidable powers in Sicily. 'I he arrival of 1'yrrhus

in the island (». c. 278) for a time pave a cheek to

their aggrandisement: they in vain combined with

the Carthaginians to prevent his landing; but,

though he defeated their forces in a battle and took

several of their fortresses, he did not attack Me*una

itself; and on his return to Italy the Mamertinn

sent a larpe force across the straits which attacked

the army of the kinp on its march, and inflicted on

him severe losses. (Plut. /fyrrA. 23,24; Diod. xx:.

7. p. 495.) The Mamertines, however, soon found

a more formidable enemy in Hieron of Syrarnse.

who, shortly after the departure of Pyrrbos fro»

Sicily, established himself in the possession of the

chief power in that city. His efforts were early

directed apainst the Mamertines; and after the Call

of lihecium, which was taken by the Rinnans in

B.C.271, he invaded their territory with a crear

army, reduced the fortress of Mylae, and defeated

the Mamertines in a battle on the bank* erf" tbe

river Lonpanus, with such slaughter that Ussy were

on the point of surrenderinp Messana itself without

a blow; and the city was saved only by tbe inter­

vention of a Carthapinian force under Hajmitui.

(Pol. i. 8, 9; Diod. xxii. 13. pp. 499. 500.> The

events which followed are obscurely known tn u».

and their chronology is very uncertain; bat the

Mamertines seem to have found that they «w no

longer able to stand alone apainst the power of Hseron;

and, while one party was dis[*osed to throw them­

selves into the amis of the Carthaginians. an->*h-r

sought protection from the power of Kome. The latter

ultimately prevailed, and an embassy sent by ths>

Mamertines, to invoke tbe alliance of the Honiara*.

first gave occasion to the intervention of that p«*>pie

in the affairs of Sicily, and became tbe origin of lbs

First Punic War, b. c. 264. (Pol. i. 10; Diod. xxiii.

1; Zonar. viii. 8; Oros. iv. 7; Liv. EpiL xvL)

Before the arrival of the promised aid fix-m K^cne

the Carthaginian party had again prevailed. ai*i the

citadel was occupied by a Carthaginian garrison;

but this was expelled by the Mamertines themseJvvs

on the arrival of C. Claudius; and soon after the

consul Appius Claudius landed at Messana, and «Wre

off in succession the Carthaginians and Hier-n, wh»

had just before concluded an alliance against the

Mamertines, and laid siege to the city with then

combined forces. (Pol i. 11, 12; Diod. xxiii 1,3.

p. 501; Zonar. viii. 8, 9; Dion Cass. Exc. Vat. 50—

GO.) Messana was now protected by a Etonian gar­

rison, and, during the whole course of the war whwh

followed, continued to be one of their chief strong-

holds and the principal station of their Beets. Tbe

importance of its harbour, as well as its ready can-

in unicat ion with Italy, rendered it a point of vital

importance to the Itomans: and the Mamertines ettbea

continued steadily faithful or were kept under by Use

constant presence of a Homan force. (PoL i. SI,

25, 38, 52; Diod. xxiii. 18. p. 505,xxiv. 1. p. 506;

Zonar, viii. 10, 12.) At the close of the war tbe

Mamertines obtained a renewal of their treaty, and

continued to enjoy henceforth the nominal prinlegws

of an allied city (foederata cicitat), while they is

reality passed under the dominion of Home. (Cic

Verr. iii. 6.) Even in the time of Cicero w* find

them still retaining this privileged condition; assi

though this alone would not ltave suffice*! to protect

them against the exactions of Verrcs, the Mamerttm

appear to have adopted the safer policy of »upp»r.^c

the praetor in all his oppressions and cunciliat:nr sum

by bribes, to that they are represented by the or»t t

as the accomplices, as well a* defender*, of all La»

iniquities. (Cic. lb. H. 5, 46, iv. 8t 67, Ac.)

M>-ssuna was certainly at this time one of tha> mas*

populous and nourishing places m Sicily. Csrsro

