ROMA. 831 ROMA.

limit Ihmt continued to bar in general the name

• Lactlh*. Bat Becker interprets the passage

rarjt when he thinks that the temple of Sol lav

irtedtbea gardens: on the contrary, the passing

tmpJe gave rise to the conversation, which

jBti till Vopiacus and his friend arrived at the

in Viariaui, wherever these mar have been; and if

sri mi oo the Pincian, the temple of Sol, in the

joiti iDdkated, wookl bare been on the road to

an tam the Palatium. Lastly, we may observe

:t tie Qairinal had, in very early times, been de­

lated ts the worship of Sol, wbo was a Sabine

vr {Varro, /*. L. v. § 74); and there was a

H.TTJ*s Sous in the neighbourhood of the

it* of QuirimB. (Quint I tut. Or. i. 7; Fart.

'fu II /lay.; cf. Urlichs, Betchr. iii. 2. p. 386;

aua, /adit p. 210, acq.; Prcller, Regionen, p.

a.)

-i: >»i the aaoctnaries of the Quirinal. The  
ran topographers, who are followed by the mo­

rs Itiiaiu. have assigned two circi to this quarter;

• ■ s hmhm. near the temple of the same

r», aid the C tarts Sai.i I'STH in the gardens of

4*4. between the Quirinal and Pincian. The

Bar hat certainly been invented by misconstruing

ompdon relating to the games of Flora in the

rm Usxinraa. (Becker. Handb. p. 673.) It is

si onbtfal whether a Circus Sallustii may not

- mated. We have seen from a passage of  
?ttal the Ludi Apollinarea were performed out*

i tat Porta Collina when the overflowing of the

ar prevented their performance in the usual

•; tod, according to Canina (Judical, p. 199),

■stf a arena are atill visible in that locality.

'aw is mentioned in the catalogues of the

*», nor does it occur in any ancient author.  
'Horn Saixuwtiaxi, however, undoubtedly

a the vaflry between the Quirinal and Pincian,

arr exact extent cannot be determined. They

■ turned by Sallust the historian with the

ey wsich he had [extorted in Numidia. (Dion

alSLt.) The house of Sallust lay near to

(ofeeooent) Porta Salaria, as we learn from

■pan, who relate* that it was burnt in the

• af the city by Alaric, and that its balf-eon-

«! o-nanu still existed in his time. (B. V. i. 2.)

ie^ryaonsof Einsiedlen mentions some Tiikr-

^ixrtrru.wAE near the church of S. Susanna;

n» oiier topographers record that the neigh-

liod continued to be called Salmttricum or

awn even in their daya. (Andr. Fulvius, de

"•■ p. HO: Lnc. Fauno, Ant. di R. ir. 10.

») Becker (24WA. p. 585) raises a diffi-

•*»t the sitoatina of these gardens from a

V a Tacitus (Ilirt. iii. 82), which, however,

sa aose if rightly understood. The Flavian

• »*atk had penetrated to the gardens of Sallust

aw yft were those which marched on the

sua, oat the Salarian, way, just as Nero is

swd at finding bis way back to these gardens

•name read. (Tac Ann. xiii. 49.)

■ Horn Sallustiani subsequently became im-

I prvferty, though in what manner is unknown,

ant notice which we find of them as such

• oadrr Nero in the passage just cited from

tax Several empeiurs are described as residing

asx at Vespasian, Nerra, and Aurelian. (Dion

• airi 10; Vafisc. Aur. 49; Hieron. p. 445,

a> ctoss to the Porta Collina, bnt inside and to

hjhtef it, lay the Cajipds Scxxkratus, im­

mediately under the agger. The spot obtained its

name from being the place where Vestal Virgins

convicted of uncbastity were bnried alive; for even

in this frightful punishment they retained their

privilege of being interred within the walls. Diony-

sius attributes the introduction of this mode of exe­

cution to Tarquinius Priscus; and, according to

Livy, the first example of its application was in the

case of Minucia, b. c. 348. Dionysius, however,

calls the first vestal who suffered Pinaria. (Dionyr.

ii. 67, iii. 67; Liv. viii. 15; Plut. Nam. 10.)

The emperors appear to have shared with the

vestals the privilege of intramural interment, al­

though they did not always avail themselves of it.

Indeed, according to Hieronymus (vol. i. p. 449,

Rone), Trajan was the only emperor buried within

the walls; but this statement is certainly erroneous,

since Domitian erected a magnificent mausoleum fir

the Flavian family somewhere between the gardens of

Sallust and the spot subsequently occupied by the

baths of Diocletian. It is the object mentioned under

the name of "Gens Flavia" in the Sotitia, and is

alluded to in several epigrams of Martial, in one of

which he designates it as being near his own

dwelling (v. 64. 5):—

"Tam vicina jubent nos vivcre Mausolea,

Quum doceant ipsos posse perire deos."

(Cf. ix. 2 and '35; Stat. SUv. iv. 3. 18.) It was

commonly called Templcm Gkktis Fi-aviae, as

appears from Suetonius (Dom. 17); but the same

passage shows it to have been a sepulchre also,

since the ashes of Julia, the daughter of Titus, aa

well as those of Domitian himself, were deposited in

it (Cf. Becker, de Murii, Ac. p. 69.) It was

erected on the site of the house in which Domitian

was born, designated as being ad Mai i m Pr-

Kict'H (Suet. Dom. 1); which name occurs again

in the Xotiiia, and could not, therefore, have been

applied to the whole Region, as Preller supposes

(Regionent p. 69), but must have denoted some

particular spot, perhaps a vie US, called after a

pomegranate tree that grew there. We have already

adverted to the importance attached to trees growing

within the city.

The only other object that remains to be noticed

on tho Quirinal is the Praktoriax Camp, since

the baths of Diocletian will be described under the

proper head. We have related in the former part

of this article that the Castra Praetoria wore esta­

blished in the reign of Tiberius outside the Porta

Collina, to the eastward of the agger. They were

arranged after the usual model of a Roman camp,

and were enclosed within a brick wall, of which

there are still some remains. (Canina, Jndicaz.

p. 194.) They were included within the wall of

Aurelian, which preserved their outline. We need

only add that the 6th Region of Augustus, of which

the Ksquiline formed the principal part, was called

Alta Si- mi i a. from a road which ran along the

whole bark of the hill, answering to the modern

SrmoVi di Porta Pin.

The Pisciaji Hitx presents bnt few objects of

importance. Its earlier name was Colus Hor-

torum, or Hortcu>ri*m, derived from the gar­

dens which covered it; and it was not till a late

period of the empire that it obtained the name of

Mons Pincius, from a magnificent palace of the

Pincian family which stood upon it. (Urlichs,

Betchr. vol. iii. part. ii. p. 572, Rom. Top. p. 136.)

This Domi-b Pinctana is rendered interesting from

