TOLERIUM. 121.1 TOLOSA.

ioned only by Ovid and Oraius, in reference to a

Teat battle fought on its banlu during the Social

>V*r, between the Roman consul Rntilius and the

tUni, in which the Romans were defeated with

-rest slaughter and Rntilius himself slain. (Ovid,  
Fast tl 565; Ores. v. 18.) [E. H. B.]

TOLE'RIOM(IWpuJv, Steph. B.: EUi.ToKtflu>ot,

rolrriensis: Valmontone t). an ancient town of

Utium, ths name of which occurs in the early

llunun history, but which appears to hare ceased to

-xi»t at an early period. Its name is found in the  
i«t given by Dionysius of the thirty Latin cities

Hiich farmed the league in n. c. 493 (Dionys. v.

SI. arrording to the Vatican MS.; Niebuhr, vol. ii.

i it* II): and it is sgain mentioned among the

■Ives taken by Coriolanua at the head of the

i"oUcian army in b.c 486 (Dionys. viii. 17; Plut.

r'.irioi 28). According to the narrative given by

tar.ysias, and by Plutarch who copies him, it was

lie first place attacked by Coriolanus in that cam-

i _ti. and its reduction was followed in succession

■y that of Bola, Labicum, Pedum and Corbio. It

< lingular that no mention of Tolerium occurs in

iie narrative of the same operations by Livy (ii. 39),

ind it seems probable that the name of Trebiam,

•bich is found in that author (for which the best

USS. give Trebium), is a corruption for Tolerium, a

otherwise little known and therefore liable to

deration by copyists. (Cluver. Ilal. p. 969;

(ir;nann, Alt-lAtinitcke Chorographie, p. 203.)

IV only otlwr notice of Tolerium is found in Pliny,

rbo enumerates the Tolerienses" among the 41 po­

oh* of Latinm who had formerly shared in the

i' rifiees on the Alban Mount, but were in his time

itterly extinct (iii. 5. s. 9). We have no account

i the period of its destruction or final decay. The

nly doe to its position is that derived from the

•rrstires above referred to, and it seems very doubt-

al how far we arc justified in drawing strict topo-

Ta[4iical inferences from such relations. It may,

losTTer, be admitted as probable that Tolerinm was

lusted in the same neighbourhood with Bola,

»tn<-um, and Pedum; and the conjecture of Nibby,

rli't would plsce it at VatmonUme, derives at least

arne support from the circumstance that the latter

wn stands just at the source of the river Siuxo,

ailed in ancient times the Trerus or Tolcrus

Tkkt.i-*]. The name of I 'almontone, is of modem

r:.:in, bat it in all probability occupies an ancient

it*i some vestiges of its ancient walls are still

wUe, as well as some remains of Roman date,

rh:le the scarped sides of the rocks which surround

:. and render the position one of great natural strength,

buand in ancient sepulchres. Gell, however, regards

: as the site of Vitellia rather than Tolerium, a

<*;jeeture which has also much to recommend it.

Vitxuja.] Valmontone is 5 miles S. of Paltstrina

dA about 3 miles beyond Ltignano, on the line of

be modern Via Latins, and 26 from Rome. (Nibby,

'Miami, vol iii pp. 370, 377; Gell, Top. of Rome,

k 436; Abeken, itittei-ltalien, p. 76.) [E. H. B.j

TOLETUM (TaiAirro-, Ptol. ii. 6. § 57: Eth.

"j>Uni, I'lin. iii. 3. s. 4; Orelli, Inter, no. 980),

be capital of the Carpetani, in Hispania Tar-

inaiensis, situated on the Tagus, and on the road

r itn Etnerita to Caesaraogusta, and connected also

• another road with Laminium. (/(in. Ant. pp 438.

r46.) It was a very strong town, though only of

I'llrrate size, and famed for its manufacture of

rm« and steel-ware. (Lav. xxxv. 7, 22, xxxix, 30;

int. Cyneg. 341; cf. Miiiano, IHcciom. viii. p.

453.) According to an old Spanish tradition, To­

ledo was founded in the year 540 B. c by Jewish

colonists, who named it Toltdoch, that is, " mother

of jteople," whence we might perhaps infer a Phoe­

nician settlement (Cf. Miuano, I. e.; Puente, Tra­

ce/*, i. p. 27.) It is still called Toledo, and con­

tains several remains of Roman antiquities, and

especially the ruins of a circus. (Cf. Flora, Etp.

Sagr. v. p. 22; Puente, i. p. 165, acq.) [T. H. D.j

TOLIAPIS (ToWro, Ptol. ii. 3. § 33), a small

island on the E. coast of Albion, opposite to the

country of the Trinobantes. Sheppy seems the only

island with which it is at all possible to identify it;

yet it lies farther S. than the account of Ptolemy

appears to indicate. [T. H. D.]

TOLISTOBOGII, TOLISTOBOGI, or TOL1S-

T0B01I. [Gauatia.]

TOLLENTI'NUM. [TounrrrauM.]

TOLOBIS, a coast town of the Ilercaones, in

Hispania Tarraconensis. (Mela, ii. 6.) [T. 11. D.]

TO'LOPHON (ToAo^wV: Eth. TeAoSMiviot), a

town of the Locri Ozolae, possessing a large harbour

according to Dicaearchus (66; comp Time, iii. 101;

Steph. B. i. v.). According to Leake it occupied

the valley of KieeU. {Norther* Greece, vol. ii. p.

620.)

TOLO'SA or THOLO'SA (ToAsWo, ToAswo,

ToAoo-a, Dion Cass, xxxviii. c 32: Eth. Tolosates,

Tolosenses, Tolosani), in Gallia, is Toulome, in the

department of llaute-Garome, on the right bank

of the Garonne.

The identity of Tolosa and Touhmte is easily

proved from the Itineraries and other evidence. In

Caesar's time Tolusa was within the Roman Provincia.

(£. G. i. 10.) When Caesar is speaking of the inten­

tion of the Uelvetii to migrate into the country of the

Santones, be remarks that the Santones are not far

from the territory of the Tolosates, who are in the

Provincia. He considered that it would be dan­

gerous to the Provincia if the warlike Uelvetii, the

enemies of Rome, should be so near to an open

country, which produced a great deal of grain.

The commentators have found some difficulty in

Caesar's expression about the proximity of the San­

tones and the Tolosates, for the Nitiobriges and

Petmcorii were between the Santones and the Tolo­

sates; but Caesar only means to say that the Uel­

vetii in the country of the Santones would be dan­

gerous neighbours to the Provincia. In Caesar's

time Tolosa and Carcaso, both in the basin of the

Garonne, were fully organised as a part of the

Provincia; for when P. Crassus invaded Aquitania,

he summoned soldiers from the muster-rolls of these

towns to join his army. (fl. G. iii. 20.) Tokxa

being situated on the neck of land where Gallia is

narrowest [Gaixia Tkahsaumma, Vol. I. p. 949]

and in a position easy of access from the west,

north, and east, was one of the places threatened by

the Galli in the great rising of B. c. 52; but Caesar

with his usual vigilance protected the province on

this side by placing a force at Tolosa. (B. G.

vii.7.)

Tolosa was an old town of the Volcae Tectosages

which existed probably many centuries before it

was conquered by the Romans. A great quantity

of gold and silver was collected there, the gold the

produce of the auriferous region near the Pyrenees,

and both the precious metals the offerings of Gallic

superstition. The treasure was kept in chambers

in the temples, and also in sacred tanks. This is

the story of Posidonius (Slrab. iv. p. 188), who had

