RATOMAGUS. RAVENNA. C93

yrlme it Reh, which are near Machecoul and on

hm 7>jn, a small river in the department of La

I ^ire. The 7Vrh enters the sea near Bourgneuf,

to the hie Noirmoutier (DAnville, Notice,

ft; Ck»rt- CoUiea, p. 393). [0. L.]

RATOMAGUS. [Rotomaous.]

KAl'DA (•P««at Ptol. ii. 6. § 50), a town of

a* Vactaei in Hispania Tarracnnensis, on the rood

-~i Aaturica to Caesar Augusta (/fin. Ant. p.  
>W). miw Aoo, on the Douro. (Comp. Florez. Etp.

ay. »i p. 274.) [T. H. D.J

KAl'DII CAHPI. [Cami-i Raudii.]

fUVEXNA (Pmvma, Strab.; 'PdCswo, Ptol.ei

v • Etk. Rarennas -atis: Jta&nna), one of the

: << isip>ctant cities of Gallia Cispadana, situated

atari distance from the sea-coast, at the southern

ivrrmtT of the extensive range of marshes and

er e*, which occupied the whole const of Venetia

■ws ihmr to Altinum. (Strab. v. p. 213; Itia.

sat f. 126.) It was 33 miles N. of Ariminum.

»■ -trfc lficloded within the limits of Cisalpine

■si, according to the divisions established in the

r» t Strain and Pliny, it does not appear to have

•v Wo a Ganlitb city. Strabo tells us that it

at & Tbe^taiian colony, which probably meant that

wai • IVlaagic settlement, and was connected

Math* traditions tliat ascribed to the Pelasgi the

iikj of tiie neighbouring city of Spina,

wo » ] But they subsequently, according to the

c* writer, received a body of Umbrian colonists,

wir tc maintain themselves against the growing

tar tf the Etruscans, and thus became an Um-

a* car, to which people they continued to belong

t^y passed under the Roman government,

ksw v. pp.214, 217.) Pliny, on the other

at r&, i: a Sabine city, — a strange statement,

later are wholly unable to explain. (Plin. ili. 15.

% i I: seems probable that it was really an

wrau aetxleiiient, and retained its national cha-

liaoczti surrounded by the Lingonian Gauls,

• i: received a Roman colony. No mention of

Kara* i» f.und in history till a late period of the

an Opnbitc, but it appears to have been then

fxtv a place of some consequence. In B. c 82,

|y raw civil wars of Marius and Sulla, it was

(pea by Metellus, the lieutenant of the latter,

(SW 'n it tiie point of departure from whence he

fat cs hi> operations. (Appian, B. C. i. 89.)

pi rt was ooe of the places wliich was frequently

lit br Caesar daring his command in Gaul, for

an !■ m of raising levies, and communicating

I ta frvradat mt Rone (Cic ad Att. Til l, ad

Lit, visi- 1): and just before the outbreak

■ Civil War it was there that he established

pai-<raartrrs; from whence he carried on nego-

§• witfc the senate, and from whence he ulti-

(• art sax am but march to Ariminum. (Id. ib.

i. Cae*. B. C- '.. 5; Suet Caei. 30; Appian,

t i 35.) Its name again figures repeatedly in

mrt wars brtweeo Antony and Octavian, espe-

f*snar tl»e war of 1'ernsia (Appian, B. C. iii.

(C, v 33, SO, cfcc); and it is evident that it

avnadv becrxne one of the most important

pb taat part oaf Cisalpine GauL

le arjrwrtaun at what period Ravenna received

tau ct±»v. Strabo speaks of it as having in

well as Ariminum, received a body of

■a aolaacawa (». p. 217): but the date is not

(axr.1 and it certainly did not, like Ariminum,

'an ti«r eaodilictfi of a regular Colonia, nume-

t wliich give it the title

of a Municipium. It is probable that the settlement

alluded to by Strabo took place under Augustus,

and it is certain that it was to that emperor that Ra­

venna was indebted for the importance which it sub­

sequently enjoyed during the whole period of the

Roman Empire. The situation of the city was very

peculiar. It was surrounded on all sides by marshes,

or rather lagunes, analogous to those which now

surround the city of I'enice, and was built, like

that city, actually in the water, so that its houses

and editices were wholly constructed on piles, and it

was intersected in all directions by canals, which

were crossed either by bridges or ferries. The la­

gunes hud a direct communication with the sea, so

that the canals were scoured every dHy by the flux

and reflux of the tides, — a circumstance to which

Strabo attributes, no doubt with justice, the healthi­

ness of the city, which must otherwise have been

uninhabitable from malaria. (Strab. v. p. 213;

Jomand. Get. 29; Sidon. Apoll. Eput. i. 5: Procop.

B. G.i. 1; Claudian, de VI. Com. lion. 495.) The

old city had a small port at the mouth of the river

Bedesis, mentioned by Pliny as flowing under its

v<alls (Plin. iii. 15. s. 20); but Augustus, having

determined to make it the permanent station of his

fleet in the Adriatic, constructed a new and spacious

port, which is said to have been capable of contain­

ing 250 ships of war (Jornand. /. c), and was fur­

nished with a celebrated Pharos or lighthouse to

mark its entrance. (Plin. xxxvi. 13. s. 18.) This

port was near 3 miles distant from the old city, with

which it was connected by a long causeway: a con­

siderable town rapidly grew up around it, which

came to be known by the name of Portls Classis

or simply Classis; while between the two, but

nearer to the city, there arose another suburb,

scarcely less extensive, which bore the name of

Caesarea. (Jornand. /. c.; Sidon. Apoll. I. c.; Procop.

B. G. ii. 29; Geogr. Rav. iv. 31.) In addition to these

works Augustus constructed a canal, called from

him the Fossa Augusta, by which a part of the

waters of the Padus were carried in a deep artificial

channel under the very walls of Ravenna and had

their outlet at the port of Classis. (Plin. iii. 16.

s. 20; Jornand. /. c.)

From this time Ravenna continued to be the

permanent station of the Roman fleet which was

destined to guard the Adriatic or Upper Sea, as

Misenum was of that on the Lower (Tac. ^4nn. iv.

5, But. ii. 100, iii. 6,40; Suet. Aug. 49: Veget.

de R Mil. v. 1; Not. Dign. ii. p. 118); and it rose

rapidly into one of the most considerable cities of

Italy. For the same reason it became an important

military post, and was often selected by the em­

perors as their head-quarters, from which to watch

or oppose the advance of their enemies into Italy.

In A. D. 193 it was occupied by Scverus in his

march upon Rome against Didius Julian (Spartian,

Did Jul. 6: Dion Cass, lxxiii. 17) j and in 238 it

was there that Pupienus was engaged in assembling

an army to oppose the advance of Maximin when

he received the news of the death of that emperor

before Aquileia. (lierodian, viii. 6, 7; Capit. Maxi­

min. 24, 25, Max. et Balb. 11,12.) Its strong and

secluded position also caused it to be selected as a

frequent place of confinement for prisoners of dis­

tinction, such as the son of the German chieftain

Arminius, and Maroboduus. chief of the Suevi. (Tac.

Am. i. 58, ii. 63; Suet. Tib. 20.) The same cir­

cumstances at a later period led to its selection by

the feeble and timid Honorios as the place of his

Y T 3

