148 LAURENTUM. LAURIUM.

Oriff. G. Rom.. 10; Varr. L. L. r. 152; Yir^.Aen.

vii. 59.)

The precise site of Laurcntum Las been a subject

of much doubt; though it maybe placed approxi­

mately without question between Ostia and IVatica,

the latter being clearly established as the site of

Lavinium. It has been generally fixed at Torre di

Paternd, and Gcll asserts positively that there is no

other position within the required limits "where

cither ruins or the traces of miiis exist, or where they

can be supposed to have existed." The Itinerary

cives the distance of Lauren turn from Rome at 16

SI. P., which is somewhat less than the truth, if we

place it at Torre di Paternd, the latter being rather

more than 17 M. I*, from Koine by the Via Lauren-

tina ; but the same rem.-irk applies to Lavinium

also, which is called in the Itinerary 16 miles from

Home, though it is full 18 miles in real distance.

On the other hand, the distance of 6 miles given in

the Table between Lavinium and Laurentum coin­

cides well with the interval between Pratica and

Torre di Paternd. Nibby, who places Laurentum

at Capo Cotto, considerably nearer to Pratica, ad­

mits that there are no ruins on the site. Thot« at

Torre di Paternd are wholly of Roman and imperial

times, and may perhaps indicate nothing more than

the site of a vilU. though the traces of an aqueduct

leading to it prove that it must have been a place of

some importance. There can indeed be no doubt

that the spot was a part of the dependencies of Lau­

rentum under tho Roman Kmpire; though it may

still he questioned whether it marks the actual site

of the ancient Latin city. (Cell, Top. of Rome, pp.

294—298; Nibby, DuUorni di Roma, vol. U. pp.

187—205; Ahckcn, Mittrlitalien, p. 62; Bur-

mann, Alt Latin, Corographie, pp. 94—97.)

It is hardly necessary to notice the attempts

which have been made to determine the site of

Pliny's Laurentino villa, of which he has left us a

detailed description, familiar to all scholars (I'lin.

Kp. ii. 17). As it appears from his own account

that it was only one of a series of villas which

adorned this part of the coast, and many of them

probably of equal, if nut greater, pretensions, it is

evidently idle to give the name to a mass of brick

ruins which there is nothing to identify. In their

zeal to do this, antiquarians have overlooked the

circumstance that his villa was evidently close to

the sea, which at once excludes almost all the sites

that have been suggested for it.

The road which led from Rome direct to laurentum

retained, down to a late period, the name of Via

Laurkntma. (Ovid, Fast u. 679; Val. Max.

viii. 5. § 6.) It was only a branch of the Via Os-

tienais, from which it diverged about 3 miles from

the £utes of Rome, and proceeded nearly in a direct

line towards Torre di Patmtd. At about 10 miles

from Rome it crossed a small brook or terrain by a

bridge, which appears to hare been called the Tons

ad Decimum, and subsequently Pons Decimus:

hence the name of iJecimo n<»w given to a ca&ale or

farm a mile further on; though this was situated at

the 11th mile frum Rome, as is proved by the dis­

covery on the spot of the Roman milestone, as well

as by the measurement on the map. Remains of

the ancient pavement mark the course of the Via

LaurenLina both before and after passing this

bridge. (Nibby, Dintorni, voL i. p. 539, vuL iii.

p. 621.)

Roman Authors general)/ agree in stating that the

plan? where llie Trojans firit landed and established

their camp was still called Troja (Lir. i. 1; Cata,

ap. Srrv. ad Aen. i. 5; Fest. r. Trtria, p. 367X and

that it was in the Laurentine territory; hot Virgil

is the only writer from whom we learn that it was

on the banks of the Tiber, near its mouth {Arm.

Tii. 30, ix. 469, 790, &c.). Hence it mast hare

been in the |>art of the "ager Laurens " which was

assigned to Osti.i after the foundation of the colony;

and Sen-ins is therefore correct in placing the camp

of tho Trojans "circa Ostiam." (Serv. ad Arm. to.

31.) The name, however, would appear to have bees

the onlv tiling that marked the spot. [E. H B.]

LAURETANUS TORTUS, a seaport on the

coast of Ktruria, mentionod only by Livy (xxx. .19).

From this passage it appears to have been situated

between Cosa and Populonium; but its precise posi­

tion is unknown. [E. H- B.]

LAURI, a place in North Gallia, on a niad fr m

Lugdnnum BaUvonim (Z-eiVcn) to Noviotnagas

(Xymeguen'), and between Fletio (VUutcn) and

Niger Pullos. It is 5 II. I'. from Nicer I'ullos U

Lauri.and 12 M. 1'. from Lauri to Fletio. No more

is known of the place. [G. L.J

LAURIACUM or LAUREACUM, a town in the

north of Noricum, at the pnint where the river Anh-io*

empties itself into the Danube. (Atnm. Marc, mi

10; It. Ant. pp. 231, 235, 241, 277; Gruter, /a»cr.

p. clxiv. 3; Sot. Imp.: in the Tab. PaU. its name is

misspelt Blaboriciacum.) In a doubtful inscription

in Outer (p. 484. 3) it is called a Roman coIiojt.

with the surname Augusta: Laureacum was the

largest town of Xnricum Ripense, and was connected

by high roads with Sirmium and Taurunum in l'aa-

nonia. According to the Antonine Itinerary, it was

the head-quarters of the third legion, for which the

Notitia, perhaps more correctly, mentions the sec *ij.

It was, moreover, one of the chief stations of fie

Danubian fleet, and tho residence of its pra/frct, mad

contained considerable manufactures of anna, aral

especially of shields. As the town is not mentioned

by any earlier writers, it was probably built, cr at

least extended, in the reign of M. Aurelius. It was

one of the earliest seats of Christianity in those parts,

a bishop of Lauriacum being mentioned as early a*

tho middle of the third century. In the fifth ccutorj

the place was still so well fortified that the peop>v

of the surrounding country took refuge in it, ami

protected themselves against the attacks of the Ale~

tnannians and Thuringians; but in the 6th century

it was destroyed by the Avari, and although it was

restored as a frontier fortress, it afterwards fell into

decay. Its name is still preserved in tlae me'em

village of Larch, and the celebrated convent of the

same name, around which numerous remains of the

Roman town may be seen extending as far as Emm,

which is about a mile distant. (Camp. Muchar,

None. i. p. 362, 268, 163, ii. p. 75.) [L-S.J

LAURIUM (Aaoo»M», Uerod. vii. 144; Aavsws-,

Thuc. ii. 55: Adj. Aoupiwrucdi; hence aJ 7Aa»«*i

Aaupian-iitai, Aristoph. At. 1106, silver dins,

with the Athenian figure of an owl), a range of

hills in the south of Attica, celebrated for their silter

mines. These hills are not high, and are cowrrJ

f r the mo^t [art with trees and brushwood. The

name is probably derived from the shafts which wn-e

sunk for obtaining the ore, since Aaifpa in Greek si;-

nifies a street or lane, and Ajupsisr would therefore

mean a place formed of such lanes,— i. a-, a mine of

shafts,cut as it were into streets, like a eatscui-b.

(Wordsworth, Athnu and Attica, p. 109.) The

mining district extended a little way north A

