LACONIA. Ill LACONIA.

lie daughter of his predecessor. Lacedaemon gave

to the people and the country his own name, and to

the city which he founded the name of his wife.

Amyclas, the son of Lacedaemon, founded the city

called after him Amyclae. (Paus. iii. I.) Subse­

quently Lacedaemon was ruled by Achaean princes,

and Sparta was the residence of Menelaus, the

brother of Agamemnon. Menelaus was succeeded

by Orestes, who married his daughter Hermione,

and Orestes by his son Tisamenus, who was reign­

ing when the Dorians invaded the country under the

guidance of the Heracleidae. In the threefold divi­

sion of Peloponnesus among the descendants of Her­

cules, Lacedaemon fell to the share of Eurysthenes

and Procles, the twin sons of Aristodemus. Accord­

ing to the common legend, the Dorians conquered

the Peloponnesus at once; but there is sufficient

evidence that they only slowly became masters of

tbe countries in which we afterwards find them

fettled; and in Laconia it was sometime before they

obtained possession even of all the places in the

plain of Sparta. According to a statement in

Epborus, the Dorian conquerors divided Laconia

into six districts; Sparta they kept for themselves;

Amyclae was given to the Achaean Philonomus,

who betrayed the country to them; while Las,

Pharis, Aegys, and a sixth town the name of which

u lost, were governed by viceroys, and were allowed

to receive new citizens. (Kphor. ap. Strab. viii. p.

364; on this corrupt passage, which has been hap­

pily restored, ace Miiller, Dorhiut, vol. i. p. 110,

tnnsL; Niebuhr, Ethnograph. voL i. p. 56, transl.;

Kramer, ad Strab. 1. c.) It is probable that this

division of Laconia into six provinces was not ac­

tually made till a much later period; but we have

winVient evidence to show that, for a long time after

the Dorian conquest, the Dorians possessed only a

S3ull portion of Laconia. Of this the most striking

proof is that the Achaean city of Amyclae, distant

only 2 J miles from Sparta, maintained its indepen­

dence for nearly three centuries after the Dorian

conquest, for it was only subdued shortly before the

First Messenian War by the Spartan king Teleclus.

The same king took Pharis and Geronthrae, both

Achaean cities; and his son and successor, Alca-

n*nes, couquered the town of Helos, upon the coast

near tbe mouth of the Eurotas. (Paus. iii. 2. §§ 6,

7.) Of the subjugation of the other Achaean towns

we bive no accounts; but there can be little doubt

that they were mainly owing to the military organi­

sation and martial spirit which the Spartans had

aqnired by the institutions of Lycurgus.

By the middle of the eighth century the Dorians

of Sparta had become undisputed masters of the

whole of Laconia. They now began to extend their

dominions at the expense of their neighbours. Ori­

ginally Argos was the chief Dorian power in the

Peloponnesus, and Sparta only the second. In

ancient times the Argives possessed the whole eastern

o*»t of Laconia down to Cape Malea, and also the

Bland of Cythera (Herod, i. 82); and although we

hare no record of the time at which this part of

laconia was conquered by the Spartans, we may

•afely conclude that it was before the Messenian

win. The Dorians in Messenia possessed a much

more ferule territory than the Spartans in Laconia,

*rd the latter now began to cast longing eyes upon  
u* richer fields of their neighbours. A pretext for

war toon arose; and, by two long protracted and

obpinate contests, usually called the Kirst and

Second Messenian ware (the first from B. c. 743 to

724, and the second from b. c. 685 to 668), the

Spartans conquered the whole of Messenia, expelled

or reduced to the condition of Helots the inhabit­

ants, and annexed their country to Laconia. The

name of Messenia now disappears from history;

and, for a period of three centuries, from the close of

the Second Messenian War to the restoration of the

independence of Messenia by Epaminondas, the

whole of the southern part of Peloponnesus, from

the western to the eastern sea, bore the appellation

of Laconia.

The upper parts of the valleys of the Eurotas

and the Oenus, the districts of Sciritis, Beleminatis,

Maleatis, and Caryatis, originally belonged to the

Arcadians, but they were all conquered by the

Spartans and annexed to their territory before b. c.

600. (Grote, Jlut. of Greece, vol. ii. p. 588.) They

thus extended their territories on the north to what

may be regarded as the natural boundaries of Laco­

nia, the mountains forming the watershed between

the Eurotas and the Alpheius; but when they

crossed these limits, and attempted to obtain pos­

session of the plain of Tegea, they met with the

most determined opposition, and were at last obliged

to be content with the recognition of their supre­

macy by the Tegeatans, and to leave the latter in

the independent enjoyment of their territory.

The history of the early struggles between the

Spartans and Argives is unknown. The district on

the coast between the territories of the two states,

and of which the plain of Thyreatis was the most

important part, inhabited by the Cynurians, a Pe-

lasgic people, was a frequent object of contention

between them, and was in possession, sometimes1 of

the one, and sometimes of the other power. At

length, in n. c. 547, the Spartans obtained perma­

nent possession of it by the celebrated battle fought

by the 300 champions from either nation. [Cy-

nuria.] The dominions of the Spartans now

extended on the otlier side of Mount Parnon, as far

as the pass of Anigraea.

The population of Sparta was divided into the

three classes of Spartans, Perioeci, and Helots. Of

the condition of these classes a more particular

account is given in the Dictionary of Antiqui­

ties; and it is only necessary to remark here that

the Spartans lived in Sparta itself, and were the

ruling Dorian class; that the Perioeci lived in the

different townships in Laconia, and, though freemen,

had no share in the government, but received all

their orders from the ruling class at Sjtarta; and

that the Helots were serfs bound to the soil, who

cultivated it for the benefit of the Spartan proprie­

tors, and perhaps of the Perioeci also. After the

extension of the Spartan dominions by the conquest

of Messenia and Cynuria, Laconia was said to

possess 100 townships (Strab. viii. p. 362), among

which we find mentioned Anthaua in the Cynurian

Thyreatis, and Anion in Messenia, near the frontiers

of Elis. (Steph. B. 8. w. JAvQava, AuAwy.)

According to the common story, Lycurgus divided

the territory of Laconia into a number of equal lots,

of which 9000 were assigned to the Spartans, and

30,000 to the Perioeci. (Plut. Lye. 8.) Some

ancient critics, however, while believing that Lycur­

gus made an equal division of the Lacouian lands,

supposed that the above numbers referred to the

distribution of the Lacedaemonian territory after the

incorporation of Messenia. And even with respect

to the latter opinion, there were two different state­

ments; some maintained that 6000 lots had been

