PAESTUM. PAESTUM. 513

£-*i Lin (riff. 17% though the passage is not

tiw dstinct, that it m recovered by Alexander,

L« (< Epinis, as late as B. a 330; bat if so, it

nrjal; hod fell again into the hands of the bar­

on passed with the rest of Lucania into

& hard) of the Romans. We find no mention of

i .o tbk tecum; but in B. c. 273, immediately

tin lilt departure of Pyrrhus from Italy, the

tui ntabbabad a colony there for the security

f uWanly acquired territory on this side. (Lir.

iatth.; VtlL Pat. i. 14; Strab. v. p. 251.) It

»» imcakly at this period that the name was

t-rcri or corrupted, into Paestcm, though the

rangi 3»t hare already taken place at the time

swa tat cut fell into the hands of the Lucanians.

J- (tjd the time that it became a Roman colony,

» m of Paffitura seems to have exclusively pre-

*Aw; aad even its coins, which are inscribed with  
>'rn tlmam, have the legend I1AI2 and

MIITANO. (EcxhJ, vol. i. p. 158.) We hear

ta ;ak it Paestum as a Roman colony: it was one

» !i» Cifcriae Latinae, and distinguished itself by

B latalm fidelity throughout the Second Punic

Tics the I'aestani are mentioned as sending

jalene as a present to the Roman senate

the battle of Cannae (Lir. xxii. 36).

a a. c 210 they famished ships to the

with which D. Quintius repaired to the

<f Tamitam; and the following year they

the eighteen colonies which still pro-

tier readiness to furnish supplies and recruits

Sexan armies, notwithstanding the long-con-

poaareof the war (Liv. xxvi.39, xxvii. 10.)

bacta was therefore at thia period still a flourish-

t"i eotaidersble town, but we hear little more

9<siae the Roman Republic. It is incidentally

pa&ed br Cicero in one of his letters ad

I"); and ia noticed by nil the geographers

«2 oanstmg municipal town. Strabo, how-

"cvej that it was rendered unhealthy by

"aura of a small river which flowed beneath

(»• p 251); and it was probably, therefore,

14eehrjng place. But it was still one of

I'raetecturar of Lucania at a considerably

pried; aad inscriptions attest its continued

mx> Jimmjbout the Roman Empire. (Strab. I. c.;

fi-S. a. 10; PtoL iii. 1. § 8; Lib. Colon, p.

<ML W. 135, 2492. 3078: Bull. d. IntU

p. 152.) In some of these it bears the

tana; but it is uncertain at what period

that rank: it certainly cannot refer to

t*Vtaj Laos colony, as that must hare become

b the xusicipaj condition by the effect of

Jaiia. We learn from ecclesiastical autho-

e** it became a bishopric at least as early as

«Bvury: and it is probable that its final

i labUtne was owing to the ravages of the

o the tenth century. At that time the

to the neighbouring town

situation a few miles

• »« chirfly celebrated in ancient times

*■> which poMu-esed the peculiarity of  
tBww a year, and were considered as sur-

|»7«- ethers in fragrance. (Virg. Georg. iv.

*i.Jf«t xv. 708; Propert. iv. 5. 59; Mar-  
«- to. vi. 80. 6; AiiKon. Idyll 14. 11.)

■ that ■till grow wild airvmg the ruins are

P"ta their ancient property, and bower

WR s Hay and November.

■■La,

The site of Paestum appears to have continued

wholly uninhabited from the time when the episcopal

see was removed till within a very recent period.

It was not till the middle of the last century that

attention was drawn to the ruins which are now so

celebrated. Though they can hardly be said to have

been then first discovered, as they must always have

been a conspicuous object from the Bag of Salerno,

and could not but have been known in their immediate

neighbourhood, they were certainly unknown to the

rest of Europe. Even the diligent Cluverius, writing

in 1624, notices the fact that there were ruins

which bore the name of Petto, without any allusion

to their character and importance. (Cluver. Ital.

p. 1255.) They seem to have been first visited by

a certain Count Gazola, in the service of Charles VI I.,

King of Naples, before the middle of the last century,

and were descrilied by Antonini, in his work on the

topography of Lucania (Naples, 1745), and noticed

by Mazzocchi, who has inserted a dissertation on the

history of Paestum in his work on the Heraclean

Tables (pp. 499—515) published in 1754. Before

the end of the century they became the subject of

the special works of Magnoni and Paoli, and were

visited by travellers from all parts of Europe.

Among these, Swinburne in 1779, has left a very

accurate description of the ruins; and their archi­

tectural details are given by Wilkins in his Magna

Oratcia (fol. Cambr. 1807).

The principal ruins consist of the walls, and three

temples standing within the space enclosed by them.

The whole circuit of the walls can be clearly made

out, and they are in many places standing to a con­

siderable height; several of the towers also remain

nt the angles, and vestiges of the ancient gates,

which were four in number; one of these, on the E.

side of the town, is nearly perfect, and surmounted by

a regularly constructed arch. The whole circuit of the

walls forms an irregular polygon, about 3 miles in cir­

cumference. The two principal temples stand not far

from the southern gate of thecity. The finest and most

ancient of these is commonly known as the temple

of Neptune; but there is no authority for the name,

beyond the fact that Neptune, or Poseidon, was un­

questionably the tutelary deity of the city which

derived from him its ancient name of Posidonia.

The temple was hypaethral, or had its cella open to

the sky, and is 195 feet long by 79 wide: it is re­

markably perfect; not a single column is wanting,

and the entablature and pediments are almost entire.

The style of architecture is Doric, but its proportions

are heavier, and the style altogether more massive

and solid than any other extant edifice of the kind.

On this account some of the earlier antiquarians dis­

puted the fact of its Greek origin, and ascribed it to

the Phoenicians or Etruscans : but there is not a

shadow of foundation for this; we have no trace of

any settlement on the spot before the Greek colony;

and the architecture is of pure Greek style, though

probably one of the most ancient specimens of the

Doric order now remaining. About 100 yards from

the temple of Neptune, and nearer to the south gate,

is the second edifice, which on account of some pecu­

liarities in its plan has been called a Basilica, but is

unquestionably also a temple. It is of the kind

called pseudo-dipteral; but differs from every other

ancient building known in having nine columns at

each end, while the interior is divided into two parts

by a single range of columns running along the

centre of the building. It was probably a temple

consecrated to two different divinities, or rather, in

L L

