ROMA. 719

ROMA (Vifai, Stnk. PtaL et aln : Eth. Roma-

t»\ thr chief to*n of Italy, and long the mistress

*i ibr indent world.

CONTENTS.

Pale

initios - - - - - 7 9

Una, - - - - - 721

Put I. — Hiitosy op tbs City.

I. lYiliuou respecting the foundation of Rome 722

II. Thrclt! of Romulus - -724

Pomoerium - - - - 724

blast*Use Palatine city - - -727

III Progress of th. CUT till the building of the

•alls of >r.. , Tulllus - - - 729

Legend of Tarpeia— Ports Jsnuslis, and

Trtnple of J anna .... 729

Rfjtoat at Sert lus - . - .733

Septlmonilum ..... 734

IT. rmjcma of the city till the tints of Augustus 735

KFftona of Augustus ... - 737

flu municipal regulations ... 739

Auruatan Rome .... 740

V. Ruio'T of the city till the building of the

■alia of AureUsn - - - - 741

Fire under Nero . - - - 741

Changes under subsequent Emperors -741

H D-rluieand Kail of the city - - -742

Rtastr lo the lime of t'onilantlul II. -741

7V Ssrbsrisna at Rome - - - 743

Rome under the Popes ... 745

'n |v, w ,•;..„ of Rome - - - - 746

Pasr II. — Topography.

I. Willi and galas of Sersius Tulllus . 748

Surrey under Vespasian, and circumfe­

rence of the city- ... 756

raise and doubtful gates - . .757

Traastiberine wall ... 757

II. WslU and sates of AureUsn sad Honorlus -* 758

111 The Capitol - - - . .761

If- Tat Forum and Its environs • -772

The Sacra Via . . . - 773

Virus Jugsrius and Virus Tuscus - 775

The Comitiura .... 775

The Forum under the Kings - . 778

during the Republic - 783

uuder the Empire - - 7H9

> Tie Imperial Fora - - - - 797

si fhe Palatine. Veiia. and Nora Via ■. - 802

*'l The Arrntlno - - - . .810

'111 lbs Vrlabrum. Forum Boarium, and Circus

Mal'tnus . - .812

II 7V Caelum hill - - - -817

L TV district S. of the Caelisn ■ . 819

U TV Eauuilluc and its neighbourhood . 822

111 TV Vlminal. Qulnnal, and Plnclsn hills - 828

III!. 7/Se Cajnpua Martius, Circus Flaminius,

sod via Lata - • - .832

In- T/anstiberlTje district - - - *t0

P CinL Theatres, and Amphitheatres - 84]

l»i "*». . . - - - .847

'II Bridges - - - - - 848

Til Awslmta ■ - • - - 850

naa and Literature of Raman Topography - 851

SaTCATtOM.

yss mted can the Tiber, and principally on

at taut:, at a distance of about 15 miles from its

■s. The observatory of the Collegia Romano,

» ■ situated in the ancient Campus Martius,

•MI0W52" N. lat-,and 12° 28'40" long. E.

1*1 Jjo in the vast plain now called the

pBpM, which extends in a south-easterly di-

» asset 90 miles from Cape Linaro, a

* & ti Cwiia Vecchia, to the Circaean pro-  
■rr, vfeiaUt its breadth is determined by the

Bus ob the NE. and by the Mediterranean

* &W„ a which direction it does not exceed  
I s! T miJea in its g rest test extent. Looking fruxn

»f ths toighta of Roroe towards the I . . the

1»e K. ahnost to the S. by

a nearly continuous chain of mountains, at a diht.ince

varying from about 10 to 20 miles. This side

offers a prospect of great natural beauty, which, to

the lover of antiquity, is still further enhanced by

the many objects of classical interest which it pre­

sents. In the extreme north, at a distance of about

20 miles, lies the round and isolated mass of So-

racte. Theu follows the picturesque chain of the

Sabine Apennines, in which the peaked and lofty

summit of Lucretilis, now Monte Gennaro, forms'*

striking feature. A few miles farther S., at tho

spot where the Anio precipitates its waters through

the chain, lies Tibur, embosomed in its grey and

sombre groves of olives. More southward still, and

seated on the last declivities of the Sabine mountains,

is the 41 frigidum Praeneste " celebrated for its Sortes

and its temple of Fortune (Cic. Dip. ii. 41), an J,

like the neighbouring Tibur, one of the favourite re­

sorts of Horace. (Orf. iii. 4.) A plain of 4 or

5 miles in breadth now intervenes, after which the

horizon is again intercepted by the noble form of

Mons Albanus {Monte Cavo), which closes the line

of mountains towards the S. This mass is clearly

of volcanic origin, and totally unconnected with the

Apennines. The mountain awakens many historical

recollections. Its summit was crowned by the

temple of Jupiter Latiaris, the common sanctuary

and meeting place of the Latin cities, conspicuous

from the surrounding plain, and even visible to the

mariner. Beneath lay Alba Longa with its lake;

at its southern foot Lanuvium, and on its northern

declivity Tusculum, consecrated by the genius and

philosophy of Cicero. To the S. and SW. of Mons

Albanus there is nothing to obstruct the view over

the undulating plain till it sinks into the sea; but

on the W. and N\V. the prospect is bounded to a very

narrow compass by the superior elevation of Mons

Jani cuius and Mons Vatican us.

The plain marked out by these natural boundaries

is intersected by two considerable rivers, the Tiber

and the Anio. The former, at first called Albula,

and afterwards Tiberis or Tibris (Liv. i. 3; PI in,

iii. 5. s. 9; Virg. A en. viii. 330, &c), entering the

plain between Soracte and the Sabine chain before

described, bends its yellow course to the S. At

a distance of about 3 miles from Koine, it receives

the Anio flowing from the eastward, and then with

increased vohime passes through the city and dis­

charges itself into the sea at (Mia. The course of

the Tiber marked the limits of Etruria : the angu­

lar territory between it and the Anio is attributed to

the Sabines; whilst on the southern side the line of

the Anio and of the Tiber formed the boundary of

Latium.

The CampaffTui of Rome consists of undulating

ridges, from which scanty harvests are gathered;

but the chief use to which it is applied is the pas­

turing of vast herds of cattle. These, with tho

picturesque herdsmen, mounted on small and half

wild horses and armed with long poles or lances, are

almost the only objects that break the monotony of

a scene where scarce a tree is visible, and where

even the solitary houses are scattered at wide in­

tervals. Yet anciently the Campagna must have

presented a very different aspect. Kven within sight

of Home it was thickly studded with cities at first

as fli urisliing as herself; and in those limes, when

"every rood of ground maintained its man," it must

have presented Hn appearance of rich cultivation.

Such is the nature of the country in the immediate

neighbourhood of Borne. The celebrated group of

