722 ROMA. ROMA.

sent. Dinnyshis (xu. 8) records a winter in which

the snow lay more than 7 feet deep at Rome, when

houses were destroyed and men and cattle perished.

Another severe winter, if it be not the &ame, is

mentioned bj I,ivy (v. 13) as occurring n.c. 398,

when the Tiber mi frown over and tlie roads ren­

dered impassable. (Cf. xl. 45, &c.) A very severe

winter is also alluded to hy St. August in (de Civ.

I hi. jii. 17). That such instances were rare, how­

ever, appears from the minuteness with which they

are recorded. Yet there are many passages in the

classics which prove that a moderate degree of win­

ter cold was not at all unusual, or rather that it was

of ordinary occurrence. Thus Pliny (xvii. 2) speaks

of long snows as being beneficial to the corn; and

allusions to winter will be found in Cicero (ad Qu.

Fr. ii. 12), Horace (Oti i.9, iii. 10), Martial (iv. 18),

anil in numerous other passages of ancient writers.

At the present time the occurrence of even such a

degree of cold as may he inferred from these passages

is extremely rare. One or two modem instances of

severe winters are indeed recorded; but, generally

speaking, snow seldom falls, and never lies long upon

the ground. This ciiange of climate is accounted

for by Dr. Arnold as follows: "Allowing that the

peninsular form of Italy must at all times have had

its effect in softening I he climate, still the woods and

marshes of Cisalpine Gaul, and the perpetual snows

of the Alps, tar more extensive than at present,

owing to the uncultivated and uncleared state of

Switzerland and Germany, could not but have been

felt even in the neighbourhood of Home. Besides,

even in the Apennines, and in Etruria and in Latiom,

the forests occupied a far greater space than in

modern times; this would increase the quantity of

rain, and consequently the volume of water in the

rivers; the floods would l>e greater and more nume­

rous, and before man's dominion had completely sub­

dued the whole country, there would be a large ac­

cumulation of water in the low grounds, which would

still further increase the coldness of the atmo­

sphere." (Ifi-tt. cf Home, vol. i. p. 440.)

But if the Roman climate is ameliorated with re­

gard to the rigour of its winters, there is no reason

to believe that the same is the case with respect to

that unhealthy state of the atmosphere called ma­

laria. In ancient times. Home itself appears to have

been tolerably free from this pestilence, which was

confined to certain tracts of the surrounding country.

This may have been partly owing to its denser

population; for it is observed that in the more

thickly inhabited districts of Rome there is even

at present but little malaria. Strabo, speaking

Latium, observes that only a few spots near

the coast were marshy and unwholesome (v. p.

231), and a little further on gives positive testi­

mony to the healthiness of the immediate neigh­

bourhood of Rome (J$c(iys 5' far] ntftfa, to ^tv

TTfJOi 'Puffl7)V ovvatnovTa koI TO vpudfTTfia.

avr^r, rot S< Wpbi ttjv ^aKarrav ra fiev qZv rptis

tt\V idaAaTTar tjttoV 4<ttiv vytctvd, ra 5« &AAa cfaE

I obvious that he meant just the reverse, — th£ i

| shade of the hills secured their heahhinest. Ll

can be inferred with regard to any perroaartf t

Itria from the altars which we are toki wen? esS

to the goddesses Orbona and Febri* on the L*nsl

and in other places. (Cic. Ar. />. ii. 25; Pha,i

Valer. Max. ii. 5. § 6.) Even the most Ink

spots are not always exempt from fevers, macs 1

a populous city during the heats of autuma. 1

climate of Rome is at present reckoned Q&fcal

from June till October; but Horace dreadoi caljl

autumnal heats. ( ii. 14. 15; SaL ii. &-I

The season is more accurately defined id his Efi

to Maecenas, where he places it at the npoas]

the fig: —

"dum ficus prima calorque

Des i gnat ore m decorat lictoribus atria,*

(£p.LT.S

In the same epistle (v. 10) he seems to exsssV

a usual occurrence that the Alban fields raH

covered with snow in the winter.

o|

yceyd T€ Kal irapctTrAT/o-ia!? t^THtjudva, ib. p. 239).

To the same purpose is the testimony of Livy, who

represents Camillas describing the hills of Rome as

"Baluberrimos colles:" and of Cicero (de Hep. ii. 6):

"locutnqup delegit et fbntibns abundantem et in re-

gione jH'stilenti sahihrem: colics enim sunt, qnj cum

pertlantur ipsi, turn afVerunt umbram vallibus.'* It

i-. surprising how Becker (ffandhnrh, p. 82) can in-

terpret Cicero's meaning in tins passage to be that

the lower parts of Koine were unhealthy, when it is

TART I. HISTORY OF THE CUT.

I. Traditions respecting thk Forso±n

OF K. 'VJ .

The history of the foundation of Rome ts k

the darkness of remote antiquity. When thtf

ness of the city, and its progress in arts and M

awakened curiosity restarting its origin, arai

records on the subject, if indeed they bad ef*

isted, were no longer to be found. Hence a ii

of conjecture which has produced at the least a* I

than twenty-five distinct legends respecting the I

dation of Rome. To record all these, many at *

are merely variations of the same story, wonH

beside the purpose of the present artiest. l

student who desires a complete account of tfcaad

find them very clearly stated in Sir G. Canti

Lewis's Inquiry into the Credibility r-f tat 4

Roman History (vol.L p.394.seq.). and also.**

not so fully, in Niebuhr's History of AVmr (1

TransL vol. i. p. 214, *eq.), chiefly derive*! frsd

following ancient sources: Diunys. Halve- i.m

—74; Flut. RpWL 1, 2; Serrius, n.-i Firy. a

i. 273; and Festus. $. r. Roma. The import

of the subject, however, and the frequent afti

to it in the classical writers, will one peraasl

pass it over in perfect silence; and we shall the*

mention, as compendiously as possible, sowae si

principal traditions.

All the theories on the subject may be redofl

three general heads, as follows :—I. That Boss!

founded in the age preceding the Tnymn War.

That it was founded by Aeneas, or other persfl

little after the fall of Troy. III. That Kas

grandson of Xumitor, king of Alba Langm* ws

founder, several centuries after the Trojan Wsss

Many who held the first of these opinions wmt

the building of Rome to the I' • x<gi, and Osi

that its name was derived from the furcc (j^p

their arms. (Hut. Rom. 1.) Others rngari

as having been founded by an indi^eooast V

tribe, and called Valcntia, a name of the mtm

port, which, after the arrival of Ermnder mM

Creeks, was translated into Rome, (X'teba&r,

vol. i. p. 214.) A more prevalent trad it«■

either of the preceding was, that the city wm

founded hy the Arcadian Evander. about sixtt

before the Trojan War. The fact that £w

