5S INTERNUM MARE. INTERNUM MAKE.

the Afrienn continent. The E. part of this basin is

interrupted by Cyprus alone, nnd was divided into

the Carpathian, l'ainpliylian, Cilician, and Syrian

tea*.

The third or Aegean portion is bounded to the

S. by a curved line, which, commencing at the coast

of Caria in Asia Minor, is formed by the islands of

Rhodes, Crete, and Cythcra, joining the I'elopon-

ncsus not far from Cape Malea, witli its subdivisions,

the Thracian, Myrtoan, Icarian, and Cretan seas.

Kmm the Aegean, the " White Sea" of the Turks,

the channel of the Hellespont leads into the 1'ro.

pontis, connected by tho Thracian Bosporus with

the Euxine: to the NE. of that sheet of water

lies the Pains Macotis, with the strait of the Cim­

merian Bosporus. The configuration of the con-

tinenta nnd of the islands (the latter either severed

from the main or volcanically elevated in lines, as if

over long fissure*) led in very early times to cosmo-

lugical views resfiecting eruptions, terrestrial revulu-

tions, and overpourings of the swollen higher seas

into those which were lower. The Euxine, the

Hellespont, the straits of Gades, and the Interna!

Sea, with its many islands, were well fitted to

originate such theories. Not to speak of the floods

of Ogyges and Deucalion, or the legendary cleaving

of tin- pillars of Hercules by that hero, the Sanio-

thraciao traditions recounted that the Euxine, once

nn inland lake, swollen by the rivers that flowed

into it, had broken first through the Bosporus and

afterwards the Hellespont. (I)iod. v. 47.) A reflex

of these Samothracian traditions appears in the

*' Sluice Theory" of Straton of Lampsacus (Strab.  
i. pp. 49, 50), according to which, the swellings of

the waters of the Euxine first ojiened the passage

of the Hellespont, and afterwards caused the outlet

through the l'illars of Hercules. This theory of

Straton led Eratosthenes of Cyrene to examine the

problem of the equality of level of all external seas,

or seas surrounding the continents. (Strab. /. c.\

comp. ii. p. 104.) Strabo (i. pp. 51, 54) rejected

the theory of Straton, as insufficient to account for

all tho phenomena, and projjoscd one of his own, tho

profoundness of which modem geologists are only now

beginning to appreciate. "It is not," he says (L a),

** because the lands covered by seas were originally  
at different altitudes, that tho waters have risen, or

subsided, or receded from some parts and inundated

others. But the reason is, that the same land is

sometime* raised up and sometimes depressed, so

that it either overflows or returns into its own

plare again. We must therefore ascribe the cause

to the ground, either to that ground which is under

the sea, or to that which becomes flooded by it;

hut rather to that which lies beneath the sea, for

this is more moveable, and, on account of its wet­

ness, can be altered with greater quickness." (Lyell,

Geologg, p. 17; Humboldt, Comot, voL ii. p. 118,

tran*., Aspect* of Nature, toL ii. pp. 73—83,

trans.)

The fluvial system of the Internal Sea, including

the rivers that fall into the Euxine, consists, be-

sid<~* many secondary streams, of the Nile, I)anube,

Borysthenes, Tanais, Po, Khone, Kbro, and Tyraa.

The general physics of this sea, and their connec­

tion witli ancient speculation*, do not fall within

the scope of this article; it will be sufficient to say

that the theory of the tide* was first studied on the

mast of this, which can only in poetical language

l>e called "a tideless sea." The mariner of old had

his chart* and tailing directories, was acquainted

with the bewildering currents and counter-currents

of this sea, — the "Typlmn" (ru^mr), and the

"Prester" (w»ncfTifp), the destroyer of those at

sea, of which Lucretius (vi. 422—443) has given

so terrific a description, — and hailed in the hoar

of danger, as the *' Dioscuri" who played about the

mast-head of his vessel (Plin. ii. 437; Sen. Sat.

Qiuiesl. ii.), the fire of St. Elmo, "sacred to the

seaman." Much valuable information upon tlie

winds, climate, and other atmospheric phenomena,

as recorded by the ancients, and compared with

modem investigations, is to l>e found in Smyui

(Mediterranean, pp. 210 — 302). Forbiger's sec­

tion upon Physical Geography (vol. i. pp. 576—

655) is useful for the references to the Latin and

Greek authors. Some papers, which appeared in

Fraser't Magazine for the years 1852 and 1853,

upon the fish known to the ancients, throw con­

siderable light upon the ichthyology of this sr;i.

Recent inquiry has confirmed the troth of many

instructive and interesting facts relating to the fUa

of the Mediterranean which have been handed dowa

by Aristotle, Pliny, Archestratus, Aclian, Ovid, Op-

pian, Athenaeus, and Ausonius.

4. Historical litography.—To trace the pmfrresa

of discovery on the waters and shores of this sea

would be to give the history of civilisation,—•* nul­

lum sine nomine saxum." Its geographical position

has eminently tended towards the intercourse of

nations, and the extension of the knowledge of

the world The three peninsulas — the Iberian,

Italic, and Hellenic—run out to meet that of A*ia

Minor projecting from the E. coast, while the i-landa

of the Aegean have served as stepjsng stone* t' r

the passage of the peoples from one continent to the

other; and the great Indian Ocean advance* by the

fissure between Arabia, Aegypt, and Abyssinia, under

the name of the Red Sea, so as only to be divided

by a narrow isthmus from the Delta of the Nile

valley and the SE. coast of the Mediterranean.

'• We," says Plato in the Phacdo (p. 109. b.),

"who dwell from the Phasis to the Pillars of Her­

cules, inhabit only a small portion uf tho earth io

which we have settled round the (Interior) sea, like

ant* or frogs round a marsh." And yet the margin

of this contracted basin has been the site when*

civilisation was first developed, and the theatre >4

the greatest events in the early history of the world.

Religion, intellectual culture, law, arts, and tain.

ner*— nearly everything that hits us above tho

savage, have come from these coasts.

The earliest civilisation on these shore* was to

the S., but the national character of the Aegyptian*

was opposed to intercourse with other nations, and

their navigation, such as it was, was mainly con­

fined to the Nile and Arabian gulf. The Phoe­

nicians were the first great agents in promoting the

communion of people*, and their flag wared in every

part of the waters of the Internal Sea. Cartilage

and Etruria. though of les* importance than Phoe-

nicii in connecting nations and extending tho gen-

graphical hi'riton, exercised great influence on

commercial intercourse with the W. coast of Africa

and the N. of Europe. The progressive mornncfit

propagated itself more widely and enduringly throogo,

the Greeks and Romans, especially after the Utter

had broken the Phoenico-Carthaginian power.

In the Hellenic peninsula the broken configuratioa

of the coast-line invited early navigation and com­

mercial intercourse, and the expeditions of Use

Sanuani (Herod, iv. 16S), and I'bocaean* (Herod.

