OLYMPUS. 479 OLYMPUS.

■(use Men. There wis a similar object for

--itratf bona both »t the Corinthian Isthmus  
al it Seas, in consequence of which the difficulty

i lit nee in increased. Beyond the Taraxippus

fr> it terminal pillars, called stWoj, round which

lit din* timed. On one of them stood a brazen

fiiv i Hippodsmeia about to bind the taenia on

slier bis victory. The other side of the Hip-

hs<:> »«s > Mtnnl height of no great elevation.

IS Hi rrjemitj stood the temple of Demeter

Oam. (Pun. f i. JO. § 15—v. 21. § 1.) The

cr» <i the Hippodrome appears to have been two

osii, «r faor stadia. (ApoViOu Si eicn rov iirrlov

tin fit IwKm tit, 1'aus. vi. 16. § 4.) Mure,

•M (wi. i p. 327), nnderstands nijicoi in this

awttitt refer to toe length of the area; but Leake

IMfmauea, p. 94) maintains, with more pruba-

bfcr, Iks; it ripunes the length of the circuit.

B Tut Tamfre is mentioned by Xenophon

OU li 4. § 31), but it does not occur in the

twritst of Piusanias. A theatre existed also at

*> l™» mi Delphi, and would have been equally  
■si it tilrmpa for musical contests. Xenophon

sail IjrilT have been mistaken as to the existence

'•'ism st Olympu, as he resided more than 20

■n it .Sal/m. which was only three miles from

■farsrr spot It would therefore appear that

wmn toe tine of Xenophon and Pausanias the

sw> tsj disappeared, probably in consequence of

» - il c<it«>ts having been discontinued,

leus the buildings already mentioned, there

• i »7 Isnje number of statues in every part of

b) Jseid Grove, many of which were made by

» r>s:e>t masters of Grecian art, and of which

kaaaii bss given a minute description. Accord-

t* tie ngne computation of Pliny (xxxiv. 7.

•7) ~>n vere more than 3000 statues at Olym-

I swat cf these works were of brass, which ac-

'• ' >;iMi'p»'ar.ir!Cc. as they were con-

3!o objects of common utility upon the

of raevuwn. The temples and other

at Olympia were, like many others in

parts of Greece, used as materials for

btildiags, more especially as quarries of

em ia the district of Klis. The chiefs of

il Albanian colony at Lala had in par'

a»f explored the ruins of Olympia for this

article is confined to the topography

Aa account of the games and of every-

'with their celebration is given in

'/ Amtipdtia.

"tfsipia. Loud. 1824; Kranse, Ohjm-

Hare, Tom- in Greece, vol. ii. p. 280,

P'iopcntetiaca, p. 4, seq.; Curtius,

v«Lii. p. 51, seq.)

■I W S ('OAspmn). 1. One of the loftiest

153 o lireece, of which the southern side

*• wwawlary of Theasaly, while its northern  
the plains of Macedonia. Hence it is

-i J n. <un:airi of Macedonia (Stnib.  
PtuL iii. 13. § 19), and sometimes a

Tbeamfy. (Herod, vii. 128; Plin. iv.

■i 11 forms the eastern extremity of the

rtafe. and extends to the sea as far as

al the Peneius, being separated by the

fan the heights of Ossa. Xenagorns,

the perpFodicuUr height of Olympus

P'wwa of Pythram, ascertained its elevntion

■> stada od nearly one plethrum (Plut.

>*); wtieh Holland, Doclwell, Leake, and

others regard as not far from the truth, since they

estimate its height to be between six and seven

thousand feet. But these writers have considerably

undercalculated its elevation, which is now ascer­

tained to be 9754 feet Herodotus relates that Jit.

Olympus was seen by Xerxes from Therma (vii.

128); and we know from modern travellers that

in clear weather il is visible from Mt. Athos, which

is 90 miles distant. (Journ. Geogr. Soc. vol. vii.

p. 69.) All travellers, who have visited Mt. Olym­

pus, dwell with admiration upon its imposing gran­

deur. One of the most striking descriptions of its

appearance is given by Dr. Holland, who beheld it

from JMokltoro at its base :—" We had not before

been aware of the extreme vicinity of the town to

the base of Olympus: but when leaving it, and

accidentally looking back, we saw through an opening

in the fog, a faint outline of vast precipices, seeming

almost to overhang the place; and so aerial in their

aspect, that for a few minutes we doubted whether it

might not be a delusion to the eye. The fog, how­

ever, dispersed yet more on this side, and partial

openings were made, through which, as through

arches, we saw the sunbeams resting on the snowy

summits of Olympus, which rose into a dark blue

sky far above the belt of clouds and mist that hung

upon the sides of the mountain. The transient

view we had of the mountain front this point showed

us a line of precipices of vast height, forming its

eastern front toward the sea; and broken at intervals

by deep hollows or ravines, which were richly clothed

with forest trees. The oak, chestnut, beech, plane-

tree, &c, are seen in great abundance along the base

and skirts of the mountain; and towards the sum­

mit of the first ridge, large forests of pine spread

themselves along the acclivities. Behind this first

ridge, others rise up and recede towards the loftier

central heights of Olympus. Almost opposite the

town of Litdklioro, a vast ravine penetrates into the

interior of the mountain, through the opening of

which we saw, though only for a few minutes, what I

conceive to be the summit,—from this point of view,

with a somewhat concave ascending line on each

side." (Holland, TraceU, vol. ii. p. 27.) Though

the lower sides of Olympus are well wooded, the

summit presents a wide extent of a bare light-

coloured rock. (Leake, Northern Greece, vol. i.

p. 434.) The broad summit of Olympns is alluded

to by Homer, who gives to it the epithet of uwcp6s

more frequently than any other. Next to that, is

a-,aino <s (/(*. i. 420), fiom its being covered with

snow during the greater part of the year. Hesiotl

(Theog. 118) also gives it the epithet of s-upderr.

Below the summit its rugged outline is broken into

many ridges and precipices, whence Homer describes

it as woAooeipdr. (/s\ i. 499, v. 754.) The forests,

which covered the lower sides of Olympus, are fre­

quently alluded to by the ancient poets. (woAiiSfs'-

Spos, Eurip. Bacch. 560; Ossae froiuhtum involvero

Olympum, Yirg. Georg. 281; opacut Olympus, Hor.

Carm. iii. 4. 52.) The mountain is now called

E'tymbo, i. e. "EAufiwov, by the surrounding inhabi­

tants, which name Leake observes is probably not a

modem corruption, but the ancient dialectic form, for

the Aeolic tribes of Greece often substituted the

epsilon for the omicron, as in the instance of 'Opxo-

Htvds, which the Boeotians called *Lpxou.ev6s. (Dod­

well, Tour through Greece, vol. ii. p. 105; Leake,

Northern Greece, vol. iii. pp. 341,407.) Olympus

was believed to be the residence of Zens and the other

gods; and as its summit rose above the clouds into

