956 SELGOVAE. SEL1XUS.

SELGOVAE (2eA7ooGai, Ptol. ii. 3. § 8), a

people on the SW. coast of Britannia Barbara, in

t he K. part of Galloway and in Dumfries-shire.

Camden (p. 1194) derives the name of Solway

from them. [T.H.D.]

SKLI'XUS (SfAiryCs) 1. A Tillage in the north

of Laconia, described by Pausanias as 20 itadia

from Geionthrae; but as Pausanias seems not to

have visited this part of Laconia, the diatancea may

not he correct. Leake, therefore, places Selinus at

the village <»f /Cosmos, which lies further north of

Geronthrae than 20 stadia, but where there are

remains of ancient tombs. (Paua. iii. 22. § 8 j

Leake, Peloponmsiaca, p. 363; Boblaye, Ke-

cherehetj <fc. p. 97; Curthia, Pelopotmesos, vol. ii.

p. 304.)

2. A river in the Triphylian Elis, near Scillus.

[SeiLI.US.]

3. A river in Achaia. [ACHAIA, p. 13, b. No. 6.]

SELI'NUS (ZtKivovs: Eth. SeAii'oiWios, Scli-

nuntius: Iiu. at Torre dei J'ulei). one of the moat

important of the Greek colonies in Sicily, situated on

the S\V. coast of that bland, at the month of the

small river of the same name, and 4 miles W. of

that of the Hypaas (Belici). It was founded, as we

learn from Thucydidea, by a colony from the Sicilian

city of Megara, or Mogara Hyblaea, under the con­

duct of a leader named PammUoa, about 100 years

after the settlement of that city, with the addition

of a fresh body of colonists from the parent city of

Mcgara in Greece. (Time. vi. 4, vii. 57 ; Scymn.

Ch. 292; Strab. vi. p. 272.) The date of its foun­

dation cannot be precisely fixed, as Thucydides indi­

cates it only by reference to that of the Sicilian

Megara, which is itself not accurately known, but

it may be placed about B. c. 628. Diodorui indeed

would place it 22 years earlier, or B. C. 650, and

Uieronymoa still further back, b. c. 654; but the

date given by Thucydidea, which is probably entitled

to the most confidence, is incompatible with this

earlier epoch. (Thuc. vi. 4; Diod. x'ui. 59; Hieron.

Chron. ad ami. 1362 ; Clinton, Fast, Hell, vol. i.

p. 208.) The name is supposed to have been de­

rived from the quantities of wild parsley (<re\ifbs)

which grew on the spot; and for the same reason a

leaf of this parsley was adopted. as the symbol of

their coins,

Selinus was the most westerly of the Greek colo­

nies in Sicily, and for this reason was early brought

into contact and collision with the Carthaginians

and the barbarians in the W.and NW. of the island.

The former people, however, do not at first seem to

have offered any obstacle to their progress; but as

early as B.C 580 we find the Selinuntines engaged in

hostilities with the people of Segestm (a non-Hellenic

city), whose territory bordered on their own. (Diod.

v. 9). The arrival of a body of emigrants from

Khi nles and Cniduawho subsequently founded Lipara,

and who lent their assistance to the Scgeiitans, for

a time secured the victory to that people; hut dis­

putes and hostilities seem to have been of frequent

occurrence between the two cities, aud it is probable

that in u. c. 454, when Dtodorns speaks of the

Segestans as being at war with the Litt/baeems

(xi. 86), that the Selinuntines are the people

really meant. [Lilybaeum.] The river Mazarus,

which at that time appears to have formed the

boundary between the two states, was only about 15

miles W. of Selinus; and it is certain that at a

BOtnewhat later period the territory of Selinus ex­

tended to its banks, and that that city had a fort

and emporium at its mouth. (Diud. xBLSi) Ol

the other side its territory certain}! extended s> te­

as the Halycus or Salso% at the mouth u wbic a

had founded the colony of Minoa, or Heractae. at *

was afterwards termed. (Herod, v. 46.) 1; a in­

dent, therefore, that Selinus had car'} attaawe' Ii!

great power and prosperity; but we hate ver» kitat

information as to its history, We learn, bwic,

that, like most of the Sicilian cities, it had faaast

from an oligarchy to a despotUrn, and abctavt

510 w as Mil.jvt-t In a -}•■'. m 'i \z -a\

from whom the citizens were freed by the Mbtaaei

of the Spartan Eurjleon, one of tie co:iipai*ea at

Dorieus: and thereupon Euryleou Limaeif, (a* M

short time, seized on the vacant sovmbMy, bal *»

speedily overthrown and put to death by the Sbm

nuntines. (Herod, v. 46.) We are ignorant of IBM

causes which led the $rlinuniines to *\af :. tat

cause of the other Greeks, and take part with daa

Carthaginians during the great expedition of BBS

milcar, B. c. 480; but we learn that ti.ej tut ram.1

promir<ed to send a contingent to the Canhaciaan

army, which, however did not arrive till after jfiseaa

feat' (Diod. xi. 21, xiii. 55.) The Sell real

are next mentioned in b. c 466, as co-ccaaatj

with the other free cities of Sicily in asoaaagafl

Syracusans to expel Thrasybulus (Id. xL 68); avl

there is every reason to suppose that they ftafl

shared in the prosperity of the half centarr

followed, a period of tranquillity and opaaaaa^fl

most of the Greek cities in Sicily. IbacvalH

speaks of Selinus just before the Atheniaa exfafl

tion as a powerful and wealthy city, poase^sine (Bia

resources for war both by land and sea, and aaafl

large stores of wealth accumulated io it* tc^4

(Thuc. vi. 20.) Diodorua also represents it at

time of the Carthaginian invasion, as harbor ***lej

a long period of tranquillity, and pos&eafleJB

numerous population. (Diod. xiii. 55.)

In b. c. 416, a renewal of the old dvpaiei &■

tween Selinus and Segesta became the HI

the great Athenian expedition to Sicily, lac flfl

nuntines were the first to call in the powerful sad

Syracuse, and thus for a time obtained the eeajafl

advantage over their enemies, whom they were aBBM

blockade both by sea and laud; but in thifexcaaM

the Segestans had recourse to the a^icjatl

Athens. (Thuc. vi. 6; Diod. xiL 82.) Taaaajfl

Athenians do not appear to have taken anj aeaj

Burea for the immediate relief of Segest*. it & ad

bable that the Selinuntines and Syracueans »^aaJB|

their forces at once, as we bear no more .«f raaj

operations against Segeata. Nor docs Sdincs !■

any important part in the war of which it —i J

immediate occasion. Nicias indeed proposed, afl

the expedition first arrived in Sicily (a, cle]

that they should proceed at once to £«Hnaavfl

compel that city to submit oo moderate tafl

(Thuc. vi. 47); but this, advice being cr*erraaai.l

effbits of the armament were directed agiinai efl

cuse, and the Selinuntines in cxmsequence ban e3

secondary part in the subsequent opersiiota*. S

are, however, mentioned on several occa^k«s aiS

nishing auxiliaries to the Syracusans; aad d weal

Selinus that the large rVlopouneaUan force saau

the support of Gylippus landed in the sprit; *>4fl

having been driven over to the ooaut of Arras M

tempest. (Thuc. vii. 50, 53: Died. ain. II.) J

The defeat of the Athenian armament hat ■

Segestans apparently at the mercy o/ (berries!

they in vain attempted to disarm the ncetfaUn aft]

