872 SAETTAE. SACRUM PROM.

but it is impossible to fix the site with more pre­

cision. [E. H. B.]

SACRUM PR. 1. (to Upbv at(pwTi)piov, Strab.

iii. p. 137), the SW. extremity of Lus'itania; ac­

cording to Strabo (/. c), the most W. point, not

only of Europe, but of the known world; the present

Ctt/te St. Vincent. Strabo adds that the surrounding

district was called in Latin ''Cuneus." Strabo also

says that the geographer Artemidorus, who liad

been there, compared the promontory with the bow

of a ship, and said that there were three small

islands there; which, however, are not mentioned

by any other writer, nor do they now. exist. (Cf.

Mela, ii. 1; Plin. iv. 22. s. 35. &c.)

2. (to Upbv tkxpov, PtoL ii. 2. § 6) the SIC.

point of Hiberni*. now Cartisore Paint. [T. H. D.]

SACRUM PROM, (to Upbv ixpov, PtoL iii. 5.

§ 8), the western point of tlie Achii.lkos Dm>-

mos. [E. B. J.]

SACRUM PROM., a promontory of Lyeia upon

the borders of Pamphylia, Opposite the Chehdoniae

Insulae, whence the promontory is called by Livy

Chelidoniuni Prom. [For details, sec Vol I.

p. GOG, b.J

SADACORA (2a5cUopa), n town of Cappadocia,

situated oil the great road from Corupassua and

Garsabora to Mazaca. (Strab. xiv. p. 663.) [I*&]

SADAMK (hot. Ant. p. 230; in Geofc. Rav. 4. 6,

written Sadanua),a town iu the SB. pari of Thrace,

on the road from Hadi ianopolis to Dcveltus, its dis­

tance from the latter, according to the Itinerary, being

18,000 paces. This would give as its site the pre­

sent town of Konarth, situated near the source of a

small river which runs through a narrow valley and

falls into the Black. Sea at Cape Zititan. But

according to Retchard it was in the neighbourhood

of Omar-Fakh't, which is perhaps the Sarbazan of

Voodoucourt. [J. Ii.]

SADOS (2a5os), a small river of the A urea

Chersonesua, which fell into the Bay of Bengal

(Ptol. vii. 2. § 3). It has been supposed by For-

biger to be the same us the present SondoWtttf.

Ptolemy mentions also in the same locality a town

called S.ida, which was, in all probability, on or near

the liver. [V.]

SAELPNI. [Astuhks. Vol. I p. 249.]

SAEITNUM orSKl,I'M'M(the name is variously

written both in MSS. and even ir.wriptious, but

Saepinum is probably the most correct form: 2af-

TTivui; Ptol,: Eth. Saepinas: Aitilia near Sepino),

a city of Samnium, in the country of the Pentri, on

the E. slope of the great group of the Monte Ma-

tese, and near the sources of the Tomaro (Tamarus).

It seems to have been in early times one of the chief

towns of the Samnites,or rather one of the few which

they possessed worthy of the name. From its po­

sition in the heart of their country it was not till the

Third Samnite War that it was attacked by the

Roman arms; but in B.C. 293 it was besieged by

the consul L. Papirius Cursor, and though vigorously

defended by a garrison amounting almost to an army,

was at length carried by assault (I.iv. x. 44, 45.)

From this time the name of Saepinum disappears

from history, but it is found again at a later period

among the municipal towns of Samnium under the

Roman Empire. Its name is not indeed mentioned

by Strabo, among the few surviving cities of Sam­

nium iu his day; but it received a colony under

Nero {Lib. Colon. p. 237), and appears for a time

to have recovered some degree of importance. Its

name is found both in Ptolemy and Pliny among

the municipal towns of Samnium; ami it is t

from inscriptions that it did not bear tUtitieat a

Colonia. (Plin. iii. 12. s. 17; PtuL iii. 1. §C;

OrelL Inscr. 140; Moimnsen, In$cr. K. S. 4»ll

4929, 4934, &c) Its name is mcDtuud aUe si

the Tabula, which places it 30 M. P. frasa i

ventum, the intermediate station being a place e

Sirpiuin, the site of which is unknown. {To*. /

Saepinum became an episcopal see before the i

the Roman Empire; it had, howt-ver, fallen iaioy

decay in the time of the Lombards, bat »*» ny

by Romoaldus, duke of Beneventam (P. Iliac |

30), and survived till the 9th century, wbea it*

taken and plundered by the Saracens; after

it seems Bo have been abandoned by the ial

who w ithdrew to the site occupied by the i

town of Stpino, about 2 miles from the sue a 1

ancient one. The ruins of the latter, which ties

called Aitiliu, are evidently of Roman date,a

from their regularity and style of const ructML ■

der it probable that the town was entirely 1

the time of the establishment of tbe Human <

very probably not on the same site with thei

Samnite city. The existing walls, which i

almost complete preservation throughout (M

circuit, and which, as we learn from an i

over one of the gates, were certainly erected I

(Mommaen, /. Ii. X. 4922), enclose a pertecla

with the angles sh^htly rounded off, and f-jsa \

placed at the four cardinal points, flanked by I

square towel's. The masonry is uf reticulated i

the arches only of the gates being of nuMivei

Within the enclosure are the remains of a 1'

besides the substructions and vestiges of |

other buildings, and numerous fragments of ans

toctural character, as well as inscription*. Ofi4

last the mo-t interesting is one which u will

at the gate leading to Bovianum, and ha*:

to the Hoiks which then, as now, passed

backwards and forwards from the thir*ty ]

Apulia to the upland pastures of Sanmina, I

cially of the Matese; and which appear t» 1

even then followed the same line of route: thel

or sheep-track still in use passing directly t

the ruins of Alt ilia. (Craven's Abruzzx, *«L I

130—135; Romanelli, voL ii. pp.444—US.l

sen, /. H. .X. 4916.) [E. HJ

SAEI'ONE, an inland town of Uisp

near Cortes in the Sierra oV Honda. (I

8.3.) [i.ai

SAETAB1CULA (ZauTa€UuvXa. Plot |

s. 62). a town of the Contestant in H'm

conensis, probably the present Alzira in I'd

(Laborde. /(a*, i.'p. 266.) [T. H.1

SAETABIS, SETABIS. or SAETABI (S

Strab. iii. p. 160), a town of the

Hispania Tarraconensis. It was a Rami

cipium in the jurisdiction of Carthago

Inter, ii. p. 1183. 6), and haul thw

Augustanorum. (Plin. iii. 3. s, 4.) It

an eminence (Sil. Ital. iii. 373) to the S.

Sucro, and was famed for its nVix and la

facture. (Plin. xix. 2. a. 1; CattUL lit

Now Jatira. (Cf. Laborde, Iti*. u p. 266. J

Hup. ii. 6. p. 118.) [T. H.J

SAE'TABIS (SaiTaffij, Vtol ii. eV § U%-

S. of the Sucro in the te ritory of Use I

the E. coast of Hispania Tarracont

bablv the Alcoy. (t'kert,ii. pt i. p. 2»4.)

SAE1TANI. [Sctthia-J

SAKTTAE. [Setae.]

