>■: ITALIA. ITALIA.

Italy; but we bare no specific account of its pro­

duction, and the fact that silver money was unknown

to the ancient nations of Italy sufficiently shows

that it was not found in any great quantity. The

early coinage of Italy was of copper, or rather bronze;

and this metal appears to hare been extracted in

large quantities, and applied to a variety of purposes

by the Ktruscans, from a very early period. The

same people were the first to explore the iron mines

of Ilva, which continued to be assiduously worked

by the Romans; though the metal produced was

thought inferior to that of Noricum. Of other

minerals, cinnabar (minium) and calamine (cad­

mium) arc noticed by Pliny. The white marble of

Luna, also, was extensively quarried by the Romans,

and seems to have been recognised as a superior

material for sculpture to any of those derived from

Greece.

IV. Rivers, Lakes, and Mountains.

The configuration of Italy is unfavourable to the

formation of great rivers. The Pad as is the only

stream which deserves to rank among the principal

rivers of Europe : even the Anius and the Tiber,

celebrated as are their names in history, being in­

ferior in magnitude to many of the secondary streams,

which are mere tributaries of the Rhine, the Rhone,

or the Danube, In the north of Italy, indeed, the

rivers which flow from the perpetual snows of the

Alps are furnished with a copious and constant

supply of water; but the greater part of those which

have their sources in the Apennines, though large

and formidable streams when swollen by heavy rains

or the miows of winter, dwindle into insignificance at

other times, and present but scanty streams of water

winding through broad beds covered with stones and

shingle. It is only by comparison with Greece that

Italy (with the exception of Cisalpine Gaul) could

be praised fur its abundance of navigable rivers.

The PaDus, or Pot is by far the most important

river of Italy, flowing from W. to E. through the

very midst of the great basin or trough of Northern

Italy, and receiving, in consequence, from both sides,

all the waters from the southern declivities of the

Alps as well as from the northern slopes of the

Apennines. Hence, though its course does not ex­

ceed 380 geog. miles in length, and the direct distance

from its sources in the Moos Veaulos (A/fe. Visa) to

its mouth in the Adriatic is only 230 miles, the

body of water which it brings down to the sea is

very large. Its principal tributaries are as follows,

beginning with those on the N. bank* and proceeding

from W. to E. :—{ 1) the Duria Minor (Zfc/rta Hipa-

ria),which joins the Po near Turin 'Augustn Tsuri-

norum; (2 ) theStura(#i#ra); (3)theOrgus(0rw),

(4) the Duria Major, or Dora Baltra; (5) the Sea-

sites (Sesia); (6) the Ticinos (Tieino); (7) the

Lambnis (Lambro); (8) the Addoa (Adda); (9)

the Ollius (Ogtio)-, (10) the Mincins (Mmcio).

V. (ii.tl.y numerous, thougli less important in volume

and magnitude, are its tributaries from the S. side,

the chief of which are :—(1) the Tanarus ( Tanaro),

flowing from the Maritime Alps, and much the most

considerable of the southern feeders of the Po; (2)

the TrebU(7W66w); (3) the Tarns (Taro); (4)

the Incius (Erua); (5) the Gabellus (Secchia);

(6) theScuItenna(/>o»oro): (7)the Renos (Reno),

(8) the Vatrenus (Santtma). (Plin. iil 16. a. 20.)

The first river which, descending from the Alps,

d<*s not join the Pad us, is the A thesis or Adiat,

•m\ui h in the lower part of its course flows nearly

parallel with the greater river for a distance of abme

50 miles. E. of this, and flowing from tl»e A';*

direct to the Adriatic, come in succession, the Mt-

doacus or Brenta, the P la via or Piavc, the Tus-

veinptus (Tagliamento), and the Sontius (/nmz»).

besides many smaller streams, which will be u>ti ^1

under the article Vknetia.

Liguria, S. of the Apennines, has very few streams

worthy of notice, the mountains here approaching »

close to the coast as to leave but a short course ft*

their waters. The most considerable are, the Varus

( Var), which forms the western limit of the pmvin *;

the Rutuba (/Vfj/«), flowing through the land of th*

Intemclii, and the Macra (J/ayru), which divides

Liguria from Etruria,

The rivers of Central Italy, as already mentioned,

all take their rise in the Apennines, or the mountain

groups dependent upon them. The two most im­

portant of these are the Arnus (Arna) and Tiberis

(7Vrere). The Ausar (&rcA*o), which now pursues

an independent course to the sea a few miles N. of

the Arnus, was formerly a confluent of that river.

Of the smaller streams of Etruria, which have Uxir

sources in the group of hills that separate the la*m

of the Arm' from that of the Tiber, the most r«o-

sidcrable are the Caecina (CVrina), the L'aibre-

(Ombrone), and the Arminia (f'iora). The great

valley of the Tiber, which has a general soutlwry

direction, from its sources in the Ajiennines on tbe

confines of Etruria and Umbria to its month at

Ostia, a distance in a direct line of 140 geog. miles,

is the most important physical feature of Central

Italy. That river receives in its course many tribu­

tary streams, but the only ones which are important

in a geographical point of view are the Clan is, the

Nar, and the Anio. Of these the Nar brings with

it the waters of the Velinus, a stream at leaat as

considerable as its own.

South of the Tiber are the LlRls (Garigtiano or

Liri), which has its sources in the central Apen­

nines near the lake Fucinus; and the YYltte-

nits ( Volturno), which brings with it the collected

waters of almost the whole of Sumnium, receiving

near Beneventum the tributary streams of tbe Csior

(CVi/orc), the Sabatus (Sttbbato), and the Taiiiarus

(Ttimaro). Both of these rivers flow thrcsjfch lb«

plain of Campania to the sea: south of that pnrrince,

and separating it from Lucania, is the Silabus

(Se/e), which, with its tributaries the Calor (C"alar*)

and Tanager (AVoro), drains the western r»Iler» of

the Lucanian Apennines. This is the last river ot*

any magnitude that flows to the western <<k»i i<

Italy: further to the & the Aj»ennin*» approach so

near to the shore that the stn-ams which oVtcrad

from them to the sea are mere mountain torrents of

trifling length and size. One of the most cuneader-

able of them is the Laus (Isu>), which f<*tna the

limit between Lucania and Brut ti urn, Tbe other

minor streams of those two provinces an? enuiiMrmlnJ

under their resj*ctivc articles.

Returning now to the ra*trrn or Adriatic roa»t </

Italy, we find, as already noticed, a large number of

streams, descending from the Apennines to tbe see*.

but few of them of any great magnitude, though th<w

which have their sources in the highest parts «*" the

range are formidable torrents at j*rticular seasons of

the year. Beginning from the frontiers of C04]plot

Gaul, and proceeding from N. to S., the mmt im­

portant of these rivers are:—(1) th* Ariminos

(AfarrrcAw); (2)the Crustumioi (Cornea), (3)th»

Pisaurus (r'oglia); (4) the Metaurus (Jsfilsnsi u);

