TROEZEN. TKOEZEN. 1235

approach of Xerxes, the majority of them took refuge

sr TroeJen, where they were received with the create*!

JiinJww by the semi- Ionic population. (Herod. viii.

41; Plat. Thrm. 10.) The Troezenians Rent 5

fhtjw to Artemisium and Salamis, and 1000 men to

rfitaeae,andtuey also fought at the battle of Mycale.

(He-id. viii. I, "ix. 28, 102.) After tire Persian war

Ida friendly connection between Athens and Troezen

ippears to have continued; and during the greatness

of the Athenian empire before the thirty years' peace

(a. c 455) Troezen was an ally of Athens, and was

•t'jwnrntlr garrisoned by Athenian troo[« ; but by

tht» peace the Athenians were compelled to rt*linquir-h

Tmesta (Tfaoc. i. 115, iv. 45.) Before the Pelo-

ftfioeaun War the two states became estranged from

one another; and the TrDCzenians, probably from

butilrty to Argus, entered into close alliance with

■fir lacedaemoniam. In the Peloponnesian War

the Troezenians remained the firm allies of Sparta,

11:hough their country, from its maritime situation

ind its proximity to Attica, was especially exposed

i the ravages of the Athenian fleet. (Time. ii. 56,

v. 45.) In tin Corinthian War, n. c. 304, the

rrvienuns fought upon the side of the I,acedae-

nonians(Xen. Hell. iv. 2. § 16); and again in n. c.

173 they are numbered among the allies of Sparta

>cainit Athens. (Xen. BtH. f l 2. § 3.) In the

'fjrrdonian period Troezen passed alternately into

He hands of the contending powers. In n. c. 303 it

'u *!ehrered( along with Argos, from the Macedonian

oie, by Demetrius Poliorcetea; but it soon became

•object to Macedonia, and remained so till it was

*k-n by the Spartan Cleonymus in B. c. 278.  
Polyaeu. Strut, ii. 29. § 1 ; Frontin. Strut iii. 6.

. 7.) Shortly afterwards it again became a Mace-

tor.Un dependency ; but it was united to the Achaean

.*Vae by Aratus after he had liberated Corinth.

Pans. H. 8. § 5.) In the war between the Achaean

-iL-ue and the Spartans, it was taken by Cleomenes,  
o a r, 223 (Polyb. ii. 52 ; Plut. Clear*. 19) ; but

fter the defeat of this monarch at Sellasia in B. c.

31, it was doubtless restored to the Achacans. Of

■t fcuhee»jnent history we have no information. It

■a* a place of importance in the time of Strabo (viii.

373). and in the second century of the Christian

ra it continued to possess a large number of public

triUinga, <jf winch Pausanias has given a detailed

coannu (Pans, H. 31, 32.)

According to the description of Pausanias, the

•nmitnmta of Troezen may be divided into three

w*, ihnse in the Agora and its neighl>ourho<xl,

in the sacred inclosure of Hippolytus, and

Km upon the Acropolis. The Agora sce<ns to

tee been surrounded with stoae or colonnades, in

bids stood marble statues of the women and

Hldren who fled for refuge to Troezen at the time

the Persian invasion. In the centre of the Agora

a* a temple of Artemis Soteira, said to have been

dirated by Theseus, which contained altars of the

frmal Rods. Behind the temple stood the monu-

*nt of Pittheus, the founder of the city, sur-  
-onted by three chairs of white marble, upon which  
'ii id two assessors are said to hare administered

•rice. Not far from thence was the temple of the

•im*, founded by ATdalos, a son of Hephaestus,

irre Pitthens himself was said to have learnt the

t of discourse; and before the temple was an altar

irre sacrifices were offered to the Muses and to

r*p, the deity whom the Troezenians considered

e mnst friendly to these goddesses.

Stmt the theatre was the temple of Artemis

Lyceia, founded by Hippi>lytns. Before the temple

there was the very stone upon which Orestes was

purified by nine Troezenians. The so-called tent

of Orestes, in which he took refuge before his expi­

ation, stood in front of the temple of Apollo The-

arios, which was the most ancient temple that

Pansanias knew. The water used in the purification

of Orestes was drawn from the sacred fountain Hip-

pocrene, struck by the hoof of IYgasus. In the

neighbourhood was a statue of Hermes Polygius,

with a wild olive tree, and a temple of Zeus Suier,

said to have been erected by APtius, one of the my­

thical kings of Troezen.

The sacred enclosure of Hippolytus occupied a

large space, and was a most conspicuous object in

the city. The Troezenians denied the truth of the

ordinary story of his being dragged to death by hi*

horses, but worshiped him as the constellation Au­

riga, and dedicated to him a spacious sanctuary, the

foundation of which was ascribed to Diomede. He

was worshipped with the greatest honours; and each

virgin, before her marriage, dedicated a lock of her

hair to him. (Eurip. I/ippoi 1424; Paus.ii. 32. § I.)

The sacred enclosure contained, besides the temple of

Hippolytus, one of Apollo Epihaterius, also dedicated

bylMjmede. On one side of the enclosure was the

stadium of Hippolytus, and above it the temple of

Aphrodite Calascopia, so called because Phaedra

beheld from this spot Hippolytus as he exercised in

the stadium. In the neighbourhood was shown the

tomb of Phaedra, the monument of Hippolytus, and

the house of the hero, with the fountain called the

Herculean in front of it.

The Acropolis was crowned with the temple of

Athena I'olias or Sthenias; and upon the slope of

the mountain was a sanctuary of Pan Lytnius, so

called because he put a stop to the plague. Lower

down was the temple of Isis, built by the Halicar-

nassians, and also one of Aphrodite Ascraea.

Tlio ruins of Troezen lie west of the village of

Dhamald. They consist only of pieces of wall of

Hellenic masonry or of Roman brickwork, dispersed

over the lower slopes of the height,upon which stood

the Acropolis, and over the plain at its font. Die

Acropolis occupied a nigged and lofty bill, com­

manding the plain below, and presenting one of the

most extensive and striking prospects in Greece*

There are in the plain several ruined churches,

which probably mark the site of ancient temples; and

several travellers have noticed the remains of the

temple of Aphrodite Calascopia, overlooking the

cavity formerly occupied by the stadium. The chief

river of the plain flows by the ruins of Troezen, and

is now called Potdmi. It is the ancient Taurius,

afterwards called Hyllicus (Paus. ii. 32. § 7), fed

by several streams, of which the most important was

the Chrysorrhoas, flowing through the city, and

which still prtx-rved its water, when all the other

streams had been dried up by a nine vears' drought

(Paus. ii. 31, § 10)

The territory of Troezen was hounded on the W.

by that of Epidaurna, on the SW. by that of

Herminne, and was surrounded on every other side by

the sea. Hie most important part of the territory

was the fertile maritime plain, in which Troezen

stood, and which was bounded on the south by a

range of mountain*, terminating in the promontories

Scyllaemn and Bucephala, the most easterly points

of the Peloponnesus. [Scylumciw.] Above the

promontory Scyllaenm, and nearly due E. of Troe­

zen, was a large bay, protected bv the island of

4 k a

