iogi SYRACUSAE. SYKACUSAE.

was of considerable natural strength, and seems to

have been early fortified by a wall. It Is not im­

probable that, in the first instance, the name of

Achradina was given exclusively to the heights*,

ami that these, as well as the island, had originally

their own separate defences ; but as the city spread

itself out in the plain below, this must also have

been protected by an outer wall on the side towards

the marshes. It has indeed been supposed (Grote's

Greece, rol. Tli. p. 556) that no defence existed on

this side till the time of the Athenian exjfedition,

when the Syracusans, for the first time, surrounded

the suburb of Temenitis with a wall; but no nien-

tion Ls found in Thueydides of so important a fact

a> the construction of this new line of defence down

to the Great Harbour, and it seems impossible to

believe that this part of the city should so lone

have remained unprotected.f It is probable indeed

(though not certain) that the Agora was already in

this part of the city, as we know it to have been in

later times ; and it is highly improbable that so im­

portant a part of the city would have been placed in

an unfortified suburb. But still more necessary

would be some such defence for the protection of the

naval arsenals or dockyards in the inner bight of the

Great Harbuur, which certainly existed before the

Athenian invasion. It seems, therefore, far more

natural to suppose that, though the separate defences

of Ortygia and the heights of Achradina (Dud. xi.

67, 73) were not destroyed, the two were from an

early period, probably from the reign of Gelon,

united by a common line of defence, which ran down

from the heights to some point near that where the

island of Ortygia most closely adj.lined the main­

land. The existence of such a boundary wall from

the time of the Athenian War Ls certain ; and there

seems little doubt that the name of Achradina, sup­

posing it to have originally belonged to the heights

or table-land, soon came to be extended to the lower

area also. Thus Diodorus describes Dionysius on his

return from Gela as arriving at the gate of Achra­

dina, where the outer gale of the city is certainly

meant. (L)iod. sin. 113.) It is probable that this

gate, which was that leading to Gela, is the same as

the one called by Cicero the Portac Agragiauae,

immediately outside of which lie had discovered the

tomb of Archimedes. (Cic. Ttac. (frrnett. v. 23.)

lint its situation cannot be determined: no distinct

traces of the ancient walls remain on this side of

Syracuse, and we know not how they may have been

modified when the suburb of Neapolis was included

in the city. It is probable, however, that the wall

(as suggested by Col. Leake) ran from the brow of

the hill near the amphitheatre in a direct line to the

Great Harbour.

* These still abound in the wild pear-trees (axpd-  
5ts), from which the name, as suggested by Leake,

was probably derived.

J The argument against this, urged by Cavallan,

and derived from the existence of numerous tombs,

especially the great necropolis of the catacombs, in

this part of the city, which, as he contends, must

have been without the walls, would prove too much,

as it is certain that these tombs were ultimately in­

cluded in the city; and if the ordinary custom of

the Greeks was deviated from at all, it may have

been so at an earlier period. In fact we know that

in other cases also, as at Agrigentom and Tarentum,

the custom was violated, and persons habitually

buried within the walls.

Of the buildings noticed by Cicero as still

Achradina in his day there are scarcely aoy

but the greater part of them were certainly

in the lower quarter, nearest to the iiiand ard a*

two ports. The Forum or Agora wu appMiT

directly opposite to the Pentapyla or fortxdbi

of the island ; it was surrounded with ponmtf

the elder Dionysins (Diud.xjr.7),whieh in

those alluded to by Cicero (" pokherrunat

Verr. iv. 53). The temple of Japitrr Uyapea,

noticed by the orator, also adjoined the Agon; f

built by kieron II. (Diod. in. 83). and mast nab

confounded with the more celebrated tempi? d at

same divinity on a bill at some distance fra at

city. The pry taneum, which was most richly

and among its chief ornaments possessed s ceeboB«

statue of Sappho, which fell a prey to the essT

of Verres (Cic Verr. iv. 53, 57). was pnos&ir

situated in the neighbourhood of the Azsn: »am |

Cartamry the Timoleonteum, or monument

the memory of Timoleon. (Tint. TimoL 39.)

splendid sepulchral monument which bad beea«

by the younger t>ionysius in memory of h> kas;

but was destroyed after his own expuWm. aea

have stood in front of the I'entapyla, oppastt

entrance of the citadeL (Dfod. xr. 74.) A*

column is still standing on this site, and the ■

a few others have been discovered, but it is nsot

to what edifice they belonged. The only oilers

now visible in this quarter of the city aesoai

mains of Roman baths of little importance,

beneath the surface of the soil there exist nM

catacombs,constituting a complete necrcpnfii:i

tombs, as in most similar case*, are prafaisK fc|

work of successive ages, and can hardly rt*

to any particular period. There exist, also, it

points on the slope of the hill <** Achradica, exaa

quarries hewn in the rock, similar to tbaK&aat

Neapolis near the theatre, of which we hhail pna

speak.

Traces of the ancient walls of Achradiaaooi

the low cliffs which bound it towards taesea

be found from distance to distance ah*£ uV *

line extending from the quarries of the ( l«

round to the little bay or cove of Sta Pami-jm ■

NW. angle of the plateau. Kecent re&ear>:a»

also discovered the line of the western wall d

dina, which appears to have run nearly is a sua

line from the cove of Sta Fana-jia, to the »»rt

narrow pa-s or hollow way that leads up mas

lower quarter to the heights above, tbas btiist

vantage of the partial depression or ral»e?

noticed. The cove of Sta Puruigia may

the Pohtus Tnooiuoitcx of Livy (ait.

though the similar cove of the Scaia Owns,

halt a mile further \\\, would seem to hare tat'

claim to that designation. The name a era

the same with that of Trogilus, nmb<xMsd by

cydidea as the point on the X. side of the s>

towards which the Athenians directed their b

circumvallation, but witliout succeeding ion*

it. (Time, fi 99, viL 2.)

3. Tycha (Tvxv)- so called, as we are tild

Cicero, from its containing an ancient and

temple of Fortune, was situated on the p£*si

table-laud W. of Achradina, and aujunac

northern face of the clins looking towards Me

Though it became one of the most papulae* «■

of Syracuse, no trace of its existence is fctaJ'

period of the Athenian siege ; and it may *«H

assumed that there was as yet no couai=

