1306 VIA VALERIA. VIA VALERIA.

pavement, or by sepulchres and fragments of an­

cient buildings, so that no doubt can exist as to its

precise course. It quitted the original city by the

Porta Esquilina, passed through the Porta Tiburtina

(now Porta S. Lorenzo) in the walls of Aurelian, and

then pn>ceeded nearly in a straight line to the Anio,

which it crossed by a bridge about 4 miles from

Rome. This bridge, now called the Ponte Mammolo,

is in its present state the work of Narses, having

been restored at the same time as those on the

Via Salaria and Nomentana, after their destruction

by Totila, a. D. 549. From this bridge the ancient

road followed very nearly the same line as the

modern one as far as the Logo <Ji Tartaro, a small

lake or pool of sulphureous waters, similar in charac­

ter to the more considerable pool called the Solfatara

or Aquae Albulae, about 2 miles farther on, and a

mile to the left of the highroad. Leaving this on

the left, the Via Tiburtina proceeded almost perfectly

straight to the Ponte Litcatto, at the foot of the hill

of Tiro!/', where it recrossed the Anio. There can

be no doubt that this bridge retains its ancient name

of Pons Lucanus, though this is not mentioned by

any ancient author: but the origin of the name is

evident from the massive sepulchre of the Plautian

family (a structure not unlike the celebrated tomb

of Caecilia Metella on the Appian Way), which stands

close to the bridge, and which was constructed by M.

Plautius Lucanus, who was censor together with Tibe­

rius in the reign of Augustus. From the inscription

on an ancient milestone it appears that tins part of the

road was constructed by him at the same time; audit

is probable that the original Via Tiburtina was car­

ried from the Logo di Tartaro in a different direc­

tion, hearing away more to the left, so as to leave

the Aquae Albulae on the right; while the road

constructed by Plautius, like the modern highroad,

passed between that lake and Tibur. The 14th

milestone was found near the spot where the road

crosses the artificial channel that carries off the

waters of the lake. From the Ponte Lucano the

ancient road ascended the hill of Tibur by a very

steep and straight ascent, passing through or under

a portion of the vaulted substructions of the so-called

villa of Maecenas. [Tibur.]

The Itineraries all agree in stating the distance of

Tibur from Koine at 21) miles; but it in reality little

exceeds IS by the direct road, which crossed the

Ponte Lvcano, as above described. The Tabula

gives the Aquae Albulae as an intermediate station,

but places it 10 M. P. from Rome, though the true

distance is only 14.

From Tibur the Via Valeria ascended the valley

of i he Anio, passing by the town of Varin ( Vicovaro),

8 miles from Tibur, to a point marked by an inn,

now called Osteria Ferrata, 5 miles beyond Vico­

varo and 13 from Tivolu This point, where the

Anio makes a sudden bend, is evidently the site of

the station Ad Lamnas of the Tabula, whence

a side road struck off to the right, ascending tho

upper valley of the Anio to Sublaqueum (Subiaco),

whence the road derived the name of Via Sl*bla-

censis, by which it is mentioned by Frontinua

Aquwdtict. 15). The road is given in the Tabula,

hm in so confused a manner that it is impossible to

make it out. Sublaquenm was in reality 48 miles

from Rome by this route.or 28 from Tibur.

The Via Valeria, on the other hand, turned to the

b ft at the Ostrria Ferrata, and crossed the bills to

Carseoli, the ruins of which are stiil risible at some

distance nearer Rome than the modern village of

| Carsoli. Thence it ascended a feteep nwnri:-

■ pass, where portions of the ancient md. vitfa t§

pavement and mi bs true lions, are still fisitle, sad *>

scended again into the basin of the Lai.* 1 ;ac .-

After passing by, rather than through. Alafar^.

it was carried along the N. shore of the lake to C»

feimia, the site of which is clearly wenfctwc c »

spot just below the village of Coil" Armeao. [Ca-

FEHNla.] Here, as already mentitned, t« onr^

Via Valeria terminated; hut the cwiiimjauos I...

as constructed by Claudius, and givwi m ibe Is*

raries. ascended the steep mountain-pass of tie UtM

I.MEU3, and thence descended into the Tiirr c

the Atetnus, on the banks of whkh, near its ef­

fluence with the Gizio, stood the citr of Conine.

Three miles from that city ■ -

Aternus (near the site of the preseiiH^fckA?*i.

which constituted an important ntikar^WoK

[Aternus.] Below this point tin-; ~ ■ . Mt^

a narrow pass or defile, through which tin

leria also was carried. The station Icttrpna^H

marked in the Itineraries a* 12 milesfrotQ C-jtSb^

must be placed at the Osteria di & VaUrim,

the village of the same name. Thence tor mi

descended the valley of the Aternus to aa has,

which is correctly placed by the Itineraries 21

from Interpromium, and 9 bevond Teare(tire":

The distances given in the Antenna Iiiaca?

from Rome to this point are as foilow.—

Rome to Tibur (Tiwli) - - xx. x.r.

Carseoli (Ru. near Car&M) no.

Alba Focentia (Alba) - xit. (xxaj

Cerfennia (Sta Felicita) xui (xn>)

Corfinium (5. Pelmo) - xvi.(m.)

Interpromium (Ost. di S.

Valentino) - - xi. (xL)

Teate (Chiett) - - xra. i,ia)

The distances stated in parentheses are lbs tarx

tions suggested by D'Anvilie, who exanLi« ai

wliole of this line of route with much cart

confirmed by the discovery of ancient

which leave no doubt as to the actual distanws. Tt*

general correctness of the result thus oi-taiaN * «-

tinned by a statement of Pliny (uL 5. s. 6). a

he estimates the breadth of Italy in its cearri* X*-

as measured from the mouths of the Tiber

of the Aternus at 136 miles. Here the imc&s i

the Aternus leaves little doubt that the msssmnw*

was taken along the Via Valeria, Now the corner,

distances above given amount to 118 cuiff c-a

Rome to Teate, or 125 miles to the nvota * M

Aternus; and if to this be added 16 mite tree

to Ostia, the result is 141 miles, acreeiEi,

5 miles, with the statement of Fliny.

(For a full examination of this whole finetf

see D'Anville, Analyse Geogr. de litaiie, ft> 17»—

1S2, and Kramer, J)er Farmer £er. pf. $Z

The Via Tiburtina and the tirs; part <* the Vwsa

are also described and examined bv We-tf-iai. A**

Kamp. pp. 108—121, and Kibfaf, Ym droliA****

pp. 96—104 )

The proper termination nf the \Ta Vaieru, a? i*r-

tinued by Claudius, was undoubtedly at \ht**&

of the Aternus. But the Antomns IiiBprirr o»

tinues it on to Iladria, which it places at 14 Mr*-

from Teate; but this distance is muri b»>w m

truth: we should perhaps read 24 M.P. T-1* V**

bability is, that at the month of the A ten as ft »

into the line of road previously ensUai *-^* l>

coast of the Adriatic, and which, wiit^: if^crx

properly to any of the three highway* thai jnsw"«

