996 SID SIDODOXE.

their special attack on this petty people to oppose a

more powerful coalition (M. 2,4, 5). It is clear that

the Sidicini took part us allies of the Latins and

Campanians in the war that followed: but we have

DO account of the terms they obtained in the general

settlement of the peace in b, c. 338. It is certain,

however, that they retained their independence, as

immediately afterwards wo rind thein engaging in a

war on their own account with their neighbours the

Auruncana. The Romans espoused the defence of

the latter people, but before they were able to take

tlie field, the Auruncans were compelled to abandon

their ancient city, which was destroyed by the Sidi­

cini, and withdraw to Suessa. (Liv. viii. 15.) The

Ausoniaitt of Cales had on this occasion been induced

to make common cause with the Sidicini, but their

combined forces were easily defeated by the Roman

consuls. Cales soon after fell into the hands of the

Humans; but though the territory of the Sidicini

was overrun by the consuls of b. C. 332, who estab­

lished their winter-quarters there to watch the

movements of the Samnites, their city of Teauum

still held out (lb. 16, 17). Nor do we know at

what time it fell into the power of the Romans, or

on what terms the Sidicini were ultimately received

to submission. But it is probable that this took

place before B. c. 297, when we are told that the

consul Decios Mus advanced to attack the Samnites

*'per Sidicinum agrmn " in a manner that certainly  
implies the district to have been at that time friendly,

if not subject, to Home (Liv. x. 14).

After this the name of the Sidicini never appears

in history as that of a people, but their territory (the

"Sidicinns ager") is mentioned during the Second

Tunic War, when it was traversed and ravaged by

Hannibal on his march from Capua to Rome (Liv.

xxvi. 9). The Sidicini seem to have gradually come

to be regarded as a mere portion of the Campanian

people, in common with the Ausonians of Cales and

the Auruncans of Suessa, and the name still occurs

occasionally as a municipal designation equivalent to

the Tcauenses (Liv. xxvi. 15: Cic, Phil. \\. 41).

Stiabo speaks of them in his time as an extinct tribe

of Oscan race: and under the Roman Empire the

only trace of them preserved was in the epithet of

Sidieiimm, which still continued to be applied to the

city of Tearuun. (Strab. v. p. 237; Tlin. hi. 5. s.

9; Ptol. iii. 1. § 68; SU. Ital. v. 551, xii. 524.)

[Tkanu.m.] [K. H. B.]

SIDODOUE (5i5u5t£y7] or SnTj5wr/>, Arrian Jnd.

c. 37), a small place on the coast of Carmania,

noticed by Arrian in Xearchus's voyage. Keinp-

thorne thinks that it is represented by a small

fishing village called Mogou; but Miiller suggests,

what seems more probable, that is the present Duan.

(Geogr. Grace. Minor, p. 359, ed. Miiller. Paris,

1855.) [V.]

SIDOLOCUS or SIDOLEUCUS, in Gallia, is

mentioned by Ammianus Mareellinus when he is

speaking of Julian's march from Augustodunum to

Autissiodurum. Sidolocum is supposed to bzSaulieu

[Ciioka.] [G. L.]

SI DON (2i5u£v: Eth. SiSwwos,), a very ancient

and important maritime city of Phoenicia, which,

according to Josephus, derived its origin and name

from Sidon, the firstborn son of Canaan (Gen. x.

15; Joseph. Ant. i. 6. § 2), and is mentioned by

Moses as the northern extremity of the Canaanitish

settlements, as Gaza was the southernmost (Gen.

x. 19); and in the blessing of Jacob it is said of

Zebulun "his border shall be unto Sidon" (xlix.

13). At the time of tl

of Israel, it was alreac

pellation of "the Great

LXX. ver. 2), and was i

which was drawn fror

Mount Hot in Num. xx

Sidon, where it is ment

tribe of Asher, as also i

(Josh. xix. 28, 29.) 1

from which the Israelite

inhabitants. (Judg. i.!

As the origin of this

question of its priority

commercial importance,

political government, its

and its manufactures, 1

Phoenicia, it only rem

of its geographical posi

they either serve to ilk

its history.

It is stated by Jose

journey from the site

(Ant v. 3. § 1). Stra!

Berytus, 200 N.of Tyrt

on a fair haven of tl

attempt to settle the i

cities, but remarks tha

brated by the poets (of

much as name Tyre).

Spain, even beyond the

more honour to Tyre

dotus's account of the

given under Phokmul

to be in accordance 1

Justin follows it, but gi

the name: M Condita ur!

Sidona appellaverunt, a

vvcaut; " but this is an

and Gesem'us (LtZ, s. r

* to hunt or sna  
indifferently, so that tin

name from the occup;

fibers, and not from I

Hitter refers to the para

sea of Tiberias. (ICrdk

Pliny, who mentions it

que Boeotiarum parens,*

oppida " between it and

xxx. m. r. from Berytc

Itinerary of Antoninus (]

Hierosolymitanuin reck

placing Hetdua and P

Scylax. mentions the clo

kKutos, p. 42, ed. Hn

described by a later w:

a. I>. 500), who repres*

Assyrian sea, itself th

nicians, whose citizens

Thebans. A double lu

wide gulf; for where thi

hand side, a second moi

which the water agair

may be regarded as a 1

this inner basin, the Tea

the winter, while the oc

mer. (Cited by Kelan

inner port Behind conje<

is the closed port of Scj

the second harbour d«

where he says there waj

harbour, called the Eg;

