1140 THEBAE BOEOTIAE. TF1EBAE BOEOTIAE.

builders of its walls. (Od. xi. 262.) But the logn-

graphcrs placed Amphion and Zethus lower down

in the series, as we shall presently see. The legends

connected with the foundation of the city bj Cadmus

are related elsewhere. [Diet, of Binjr. ami Myth.

art. CADMUS.] The five S parti, who were the only

survivors of the warriors sprung from the dragon's

teeth, were the reputed ancestors of the noblest

families in Thebes, which l>orc the name of Spurt i

down to the latest times. It is probable that the

name of their families gave origin to the fable of the

Bowing of the dragon's teeth. It appears certain

that the original inhabitants of Thebes were called

Cadmeii (Ka6>«oi, //. iv. 3S8, 391, v. 807, x.

288, Od. xi. 276) or Cadmeiones (KaoVeiwrcr. //.

iv. 385, v. 804, xxiii. 680), and that the southern

plain of Bocotia was originally called the Cadmeian

land (Kao>Tjfs yr}} Tliuc. i. 12). The origin of

these Cadineians has given rise to mnch dispute

among modern scholars. K. 0. Miiller considers

Cadmus a god of the Tyrrhenian Pelasgians, and

inaintaini that the Cadmeians are the same as the

Tyrrhenian Pelasgians; Welcker endeavours to

prove that the Cadmeians were a Cretan colony;

while other writers adhere to the old traditions that

the Cadmeians were Phoenicians who introduced the

use of letters into Greece. (Miiller, Orchomenos, p.

111, seq., 2nd ed.; Thirlwall, //«/. of tfresoe, vol.

i. p. 111.) It is useless, however, to enter into the

discussion of a subject respecting which we possess

no materials for arriving at a satisfactory conclusion.

It is certain that the Greeks were indebted to the

Phoenicians for their alphabet; but whether the

Cadmeians were a Phoenician colony or some other

race must be left uncertain.

But we must return to the legendary history of

Thebes. Cadmus had one son, Polydorus, and four

daughters, Ino, Semcle, Autonoe, and Agave, all of

whom are celebrated in the mythical annals. The

tales respecting them are given in the IHct. of Biogr.

and Afgth., and it is only necessary to mention

here that Ino became the wife of Athamas and the

mother of Melicertcs; Semele was beloved hy Zeus

and became the mother of the god Dionysus; Autonoe

was the mother of the celebrated hunter Act aeon,

who was torn to pieces by the dogs of Artemis;

and Agave was the mother of Pentheus, who, when

Cadmus became old, succeeded him as king of

Thebes, and whose miserable end in attempting to

resist the worship of Dionysus forms the subject of

the Bacchae of Euripides. After the death of

Pentheus, Cadmus retired to the Ulyrians, and

his sou Polydorus became king of Thebes. Poly,

ilorua is succeeded by his son Labdacus. who leaves

at his death an infant won Lai OS. The throne is

usurped by Lycos, whose brother Nycteus is the

lather of Antiope, who becomes by Zeus the

mother of the twin sons, Amphion and Zethus.

Nycteus having died, Antiope is exposed to the per­

secutions of her uncle Lycus and his cruel wife

Dirce, till at length her two sons, Amphion and

Zethus, revenge her wrongs and become kings of

Thebes. They fortify the city; and Amphion, who

had been taught hy Hermes, possessed such exquisite

skill on the lyre, that the stones, obedient to his

strains, moved of their own accord, and formed the

wall (*4 movit Amphion lapides canendo," Hor. Cann.

iii. 11). The remainder of the legend of Amphion

and Zethus need not be related; and there can be

no doubt, us Mr. Grote has remarked, that the

whole story was originally unconnected with the

Cadmcian family, as it still stand* in the («Hwif,

and has been interwoven bj the keapaaeaB ati

the series of the Cadmetan mvths. Is otff ■ av

concile the Homeric account of the ba&uagrfas

city by Amphion and Zethus with the iwulij run!

legend of its foundation by Cwbaas, it n» ew*

sented by later writers that, while Cadmai fiaeaal

the Cadineia, Amphion and Zethas bmh threw

city (tV v6\iy TTjv *orw). and gate U> tit wanl

city the name of Thebes. (Pass. ix. &. $§ it)

After Amphion and Zethus, Laics bean OBJ

of Thebes; and with him commences tat i

story of Oedipus and his family, which a

known to need repetition here, Whea Oeiaaas

ex [»elled from Thebes, after di*c»jTennc that at I

murdered his father Laius and married b» i

Jocasta, his two sons Eteocles aod

quarrelled for their father s throne. Tear i

led to the two sieges of Thebes by tat I

Adnstas, two of the most memorable ewans

legendary history of Greece. They f-.*md t

ject of the two epic poems, called the Tbeaas ■

the Epigoni, which were considered •hji

the Iliad and the Odyssey. Polynicev sew

driven ont of Thebes by Eteocles, retina I

and obtains the aid of Adrastus. the bag

city, to reinstate him in his rights.

Adrastus are joined by five other herte\ i

the confederacy known under the

"Seven against Thenes." The name* ef I

seven chiefs were Adrastus, AmphUraas,<

Hippnmedcn, Parthenopaens, Tyd*us,«ad I

but there are discrepancies in the Ie4a.i

notice more fully below: and Aeacb«a*(&

Thtb. 4C1) in particular omits Adn

serts Eteocles in his place. The Seven (

vsnced against Thebes, and each attached I

the celebrated gates of the city. Potysiaal

Eteocles fell by each other's hands; ud ■(

general engagement which followed la* <

the two brothers, the Argives were dVfeasall

their chiefs slain, with the exception ef J

who was saved by the swiftness of his I

the offspring of Poseidon. A few yeaai i

the sons of the Seven Chiefs uua-rtct ail

tion against Thebes, to avenge their fateaaf]

hence called the war of the Epigoni or I

This expedition was also led by

consisted of Aegialeus, son of Adrastus, 1

son of Polynices, Alcmaeon and Araai

of Amphiariius, Diomedes, son of Tydesa, 1

lens, son of Capauens, and Prontachcs, mm at I

thenopaeoa. The Epigoni gained a

the Cadmeians at the river Gltsas, aai

within their walls. Upon the advice af I

Tei resins, the Cadmeians abandoned

retired to the Ulyrians under the

I^iodamas, son of Adrastus. (Ap'4ral "S-Jfl

Herod, v. 57—61; Pans. ix. 5. § 13; "*

65, 66.) The Epigoni thus becaaw

Thebes, and placed Thersander, son <

the Throne. (For a full account af law 3

Thebes, see Grote, Hist, of Gmcr. val a m

According to the mythical ebroooiogy. the l

the Seven against Thebes took place SO *■

the Trojan expedition and 30

capture of Troy; and the war o/ the 1

placed 14 years after the first

Thebes, and consequently only 4

departure of the Greeks against Tiwy. (€

F. U. vol. i. p. 140.)

