38 ILLVBICUM. ILLYRICUM.

custom of one of their tribes, the Dalmatians, to

have a new division of their lands every eighth year

(Strah. /. c\), resembled the well-known practice of

the Germans, only advanced somewhat further to­

wards civilised life. The author of the Periplus

ascribed to Seylax (A c.) speaks of the great

influence enjoyed by their women, whose lives, in

consequence, he describes as highly licentious. The

Illvrian, like the modern Albanian Skip*tar, was

always ready to fight for hire ; and rushed to battle,

obeying only the instigation of his own love of fight­

ing, or vengeance, or love of blood, or craving for

bo<>tr. Hut aS soon as the feeling was satisfied,or over­

come by tear, his rapid and impetuous rush was suc­

ceeded by an equally rapid retreat or flight. (Comp.

Grote, Hist, of Greece, vol. vi. p. 609.) They did

not fight in the phalanx, nor were they merely

)pt\ot; they rather formed an intermediate class

between them and the phalanx. Their arms were

short spears and light javelins and shields (''pel-

tastae"); the chief weapon, however, was the

f-idxatpa, or Albanian knife. Dr. Arnold has re­

marked {Hist, of Rome, vol. i. p. 495), —14 The

eastern coast of the Adriatic is one of those ill-fated

portions of the earth which, though placed in imme­

diate contact with civilisation, have remained per­

petually barbarian."' But Scymnus of Chios (comp,

Arnold, vol. iii. p. 477), writing of the lllyrians

about a century before the Christian era, calls them

"a religious people, just and kind to stranger.-,

loving to be liberal, and desiring to live orderly and

soberly." After the Roman conquest, ami during ils

dominion, they were as civilised as most other

peoples reclaimed from barbarism. The emperor

Diocletian and St. Jerome were both lllyrians. And

the palace at Spafato is the earliest existing spe­

cimen of the legitimate combination of the round

arch and the column; and the modern history of the

eastern shores of the Adriatic begins with the rela­

tions established by Heraclius with the Serbs or

W, Slaves, who moved down from the Carpathians

into the provinces between the Adriatic ami the

Danube. The states which they constituted were

of considerable weight in the history of Europe, and

tin* kingdoms, or bannats, of Croatia, Servia, Ilosnia,

Jta.M-ia, and Dalmatia, occupied for some centuries a

political position very like that now- held by the

secondary monarchical states of the present day.

The people of Narenta, who had a republican form

of government, once disputed the sway of the

Adriatic with the Venetians; Ragusa, which sent

her Argosies (Ragosies) to even' coast, never once

succumbed to the winged Lion of St. Mark; and for

some time it seemed probable that the Servian

colonies established by Heraclius were likely to take

a prominent part in advancing the progress of Eu­

ropean civilisation. (Comp. Finlay, Greece under the

Hainan*, p. 40'J.)

5. History.—The lllyrians do not appear In history

before the Peloponnesian War, when Brasidas and

Perdiccas retreated before thein, and the lllyrians,

for the first time, probably, had to encounter Grecian

troops. (Thuc. iv. 124—128.) Nothing is heard of

these barbarians afterwards, till the time of Philip

of Macedon, by whose vigour and energy their in­

cursions were first repressed, and their country par­

tially conquered. Their collision with the Mace­

donians appears to have risen under the following

circumstances. During the 4th century before Christ

a largo immigration of Gallic tribes from the west­

ward was taking place, invading the territory of the

more northerly lllyrians, and driving them further

to the south. Under Bardylis the lllyrians. who

had formed themselves into a kingdom, the origin of

which cannot be traced, had extended themselves

over the towns, villages, and plains of W. Macedonia

(Diod. xvi. 4; Theo|x>nip. Fr. 35, ed. Didot.; Cic.

de Of. ii. 11; Phot. B'tbl p. 530, ed. Bekker; Liban.

Orat. xxviii. p. 632). As soon as the young Philip

of Macedon came to the throne, he attacked these

hereditary enemies B. c. 3G0, and pushed his suc­

cesses so vigorously, as to reduce to subjection all

the tribes to the E. of Lychnidus. (Comp. Grote,

Hist, of Greece, vol. xi. pp. 302—304.) A state

was formed the capital of which was probably near

Ragusa, but the real Illvrian pirates with whom the

Romans came in collision, must have occupied the

N.of Dalmatia. Rhodes was still a maritime power;

but by b.c. 233 the lllyrians had become formidable

in the Adriatic, ravaging the coasts, and disturbing

the navigation of the allies of the Romans. Envoys

were sent to Teuta, the queen of the lllyrians,

demanding reparation: she replied, that piracy was

the habit of her Jteople, and finally had the envoys

murdered. (Polyb. ii. 8; Appian, lllyr. 7; Zonar.

viii. 10; comp. Plm. xxxiv. 11.) A Roman army

for the first time crossed the Ionian gulf, and con­

cluded a peace with the lllyrians upon honourable

terms, while the Greek states of Corcyra, Apollonia,

and Ep'idamnus, received their liberty as a gift from

Rome.

On the death of Teuta, the traitor Demetrius of

Pharos made himself guardian of Pineus, son of

Agron, and usurped the chief authority in Illyri-

cum : thinking that the Romans were too much en­

gaged in the Gallic wars, he ventured on several

piratical acts. This led to the Second Illvrian War,

b.c. 219, which resulted in the submission of the

whole of Illyricum. Demetrius fled to Macedonia,

and Pineus was restored to his kingdom. (Polyb.iii.

16, 18 ; Liv. xxii. 33; App. Illyr. 7, 8; Elor. ii.5;

Dion Cass, xxxiv. 40. 151; Zonar. viii. 20.) Pineus

was succeeded by his uncle Scerdilaidas, and

Scerdilaidas by his son Pleuratus, who, tor his

fidelity to the Roman cause during the Macedonian

War, was rewarded at the peace of 196 by the addi­

tion to Ids territories of Lychnidus and the 1'arthini,

which had before belonged to Macedonia (lVlyb.

xviii. .'!!>, xxi. 9, xxii. 4; Liv. xxxi. 28. xxxii.

34.) In the reign of Gcntius, the last king of

Illyricum, the Dahnatae revolted, u C. 180 ; and

the praetor L. Anicius, entering Illyricum, finished

the war within thirty days, by taking the capital

Scodra (Seittnri), into which Gentius had thrown

himself, u.c. 168. (Polyb. xxx. 13: Liv. xliv. 30

—32, xlv. 43; Appian,' Ilhjr. 9; Eutrop. iv. 6.)

Illyricum, which was divided into three parts, be­

came annexed to Rome. (Liv. xlv.26.) The his­

tory of the Roman wars with Dalmatia, I.wyma,

and Li BURMA, is given under those heads.

In it. c. 27 Illyricum was under the rule of a

proconsul appointed by the senate (Dion Cass. liii.

12); but the frequent attempts of the people to re­

cover their liberty showed the necessity of main­

taining a strung force in the country ; and in B.C.

11 (Dion Cass. liv. 34) it was made an imperial

province, with P. Cornelius Dolabella for " legato*

(*' leg. pro. pr.," Orelli, Inscr. no. 2305, comp. no.

3128; Tac. Hist. ii. 86; Marquardt, in Becker's

Itvm. Alt. vol. iii. pt. i. pp. 110 —115). A large

region, extending far inland towards the valley of

the Save and the Dracc, contained bodies of soldiery,

