ROMA. ROMA. 779:

"era! paesigp in incient authors. Thus we team

Mm i>MDniaa (ii. 66) that it was in the forum,

kl that tie temple of the Dioscuri, whose site we

■jii pomt out farther on, was subsequently built

ne to it (Id. vi. 13; Mart. i. 70. 2). It is also

ul lo (art been near the lake, or fountain, of

■urea. (VaL Max. i. 8. 1; Ov. F. i. 707.) All

mr eirrunatances indicate its site to have been

mi tbe present church of &. Maria Liberatrice;

an, inoVd tbe graves of twelve vestal virgins,

xt. Loscriptions, were discovered in the 16th

.ascriptions,

itarv. (AUroandns, Memorie, n. 3; Lucio Fauno,

aaei. eK Roma, p. 206.) In all its subse<jnent

tAUces the original round form was retained, as

nlafc il of the earth, which Vesta represented

>. F. vi. 265). The temple itself did not imme-

i'.i abut upon the forum, but lav somewhat back

imi» the Palatine; whilst the Regia, which lay

fcwt, and a little to the K. of it, marked the

- -r; of tbe forum on that side. The bitter,

• cdled Atrium Vestae, and Atrium Regium,

•fa bmC a ssnaUl building, was originally inba-

■i by «t*a (Or. ib. 265; Plut A'wm. 14, &c).

u 1 lay close to the forum is shown by the account

.sews body being burnt before it (App. B. C.

148); and, indeed, Servius says expressly that

ly * is radiciboa Palatii finibusqoe Romani fori"

in, via. 363). At the back of both the build-

i oust have been a sacred grove which ran to­

ts the Palatine. It was from this grove that

of the city by

repair their walls

Mas. The admonition was neglected; but this

etv was subsequently expiated by building at

spat an altar or sacellum to Aius Loquens.

. lew. L 4ft.)

i-rjM Hrotilma, after the capture of Alba Longs,

•■ri tbe brum with a curia or senate-house,

a **s called after him the Curia Hostiua, and

anes almost down to the imperial times to be

ant naual place for holding assemblies of the

a. (Varr.X. /.. v. § 155, Mull.; Lir. i. 30.)

I ibt same spoils be also improved the co­

ca- * Fecitque idem et sepsit de manubiis co­

xa at ~—"(Cic Rep. ii. 17); wbenco we

aviiy infer that be surrounded the comitium

a fcao» or avail, bat more probably that he

I ■ r, more distinctly from the forum by

•X it higher, so as to be approached by steps.

Curat Hostilia, which from its pre-eminence is

ally railed simply curia, most have adjoined

asters side of tbe Vnlcanal. Niebuhr (Betchr.

a. p. 60) was tbe first who indicated that it must

awad an tbe N. side of the forum, by pointing

at Mowing passage in Pliny, in which the

at af observing noon from it is described:—

utin tabalia ortoa tantum et occasua norni-

r ; post aiiqtjot annos adjectus est meridies,

m fuBeniam id pnmnntiante, com a curia in-

raara at giassoostaaim prospexisset solem."

ML) Hence, since the snn at noon could

served from it, it most have faced the south.

frao, however, was parallel with the north-

aa of the forum, as it appears to have been,

■at ban looked a little to the W. of &.;

that ane dove not run doe £., but a few de­

ls the & of K. Hence tbe necessity, in order

arre the true meridian, of looking between tbe

acasai and rostra. Now the Graecostasis—

prrort of coarse, lone; after Tullus Hostilius,

• has nud-daT began to be observed in this

manner—was a lofty substruction on the right at.

W. side of the curia; and the rostra were also an

elevated object situated directly m its front. This

appears from tbe passage in Varro just alluded to:

—** Ante hone (curiam) rostra: quojus loci id vo-

cabulum, quod ex hoetibus capta fixa sunt rostra.

Sub dextra kujvt (curiae) a comitio locus sub-

structus, ubi nutionum subsisterent legati, qui ad

senatum essent missi. Is graecostasis appellatus, a

parte nt multa. Senacolum supra Graecostasim,

ubi aedis Concordise et Basilica Opimia." (/*. L. v.

§ 155, 156.) When Varro says that the Graeco­

stasis was sub dextra curiae, be is of course looking

towards the south, so that the Graecostasis was on

his right. This appears from his going on to say

that tbe senaculum lay above the Graecostasis, and

towards tbe temple of Concord; which, as we have

had occasion to mention, was seated on the side of

the Capitoline hilL It further appears from this

passage that the Graecostasis was a substruction, or

elevated area (locus substructus) at the side of, or

adjoining the comitium (comp. Flin. xxxiii. 6); and

must hare projected in front of the curia. The

relative situation of these objects, as here described,

is farther proved by Pliny's account of observing

midday, with which alone it is consistent. For,

as all these objects faced a little to the W. of S., it

is only on the assumption that the Graecostasis lay

to the W. of the curia, that the meridian sun could

be observed with accuracy from any part of the

latter between the Graecostasis and rostra.

A singular theory is advanced by Mommsen re­

specting the situation of the Curia Host ilia, which

we cannot altogether pass over in silence. He is

of opinion (L c. p. 289, seq.) that it lay on the

Capitoline hill, just above the temple of Concord,

which he thinks was built np in front of it; and

this he takes to be the reason why the curia was

rebuilt on the forum by Sulla. His only authority

for this view is the following passage in Livy •

"(Cen&ores) et clivum Capitolinum silice sternen-

dum enraverunt et porticum ab aede Saturni in

Capitolium ad Senaculum ac super id Curiam" (xli.

27) From these words, which are not very in­

telligible, Mommsen infers (p. 292) that a portico

reached from the temple of Saturn to the senaculum^

and thence to tbe curia above it, which stood on

the Capitol on the spot afterwards occupied by the

Tabularium (p. 292). But so many evident ab­

surdities follow from this view, that Mommsen, had

he given the subject adequate consideration, could

hardly, we think, have adopted it. Had the curia

stood behind the temple of Concord, the ground plan

of which is still partly visible near the arch of Se-

verus, it is quite impossible that, according to the

account of Pliny, mid-day could have been observed

from it between the rostra and Graecostasis, since it

would have faced nearly to the east. Mommsen,

indeed (p. 296), asserts tbe contrary, and makes

the Career Mamertinns and arch of Titus lie al­

most due N. and S., as is also shown in his plan at

the end of the volume. But the writer can affirm

from his own observation that this is not the fact

To a person standing under the Capitol at the head

of the forum, and opposite to tbe column of Pbocas,

the temple of Faustina bears due K. by the com­

pass, and the arch of Titus a few degrees to the S.

of £. To a person standing by the arch of Severns,

about the assumed site of the curia, the arch of

Titus wonld of course bear a little more S. still.

Something must be allowed for variation of the

