3.56 MILETUS. MILVAS.

as that in which it had stood to Croesus, and

was thereby saved from the calamities inflicted

upon other Ionian cities. (Herod, i. 141, &c.) In

tbe reign of Pari us, the Ionian* allowed themselves

to be prevailed upon by Histiaeua and his un­

scrupulous kinsman and successor openly to revolt

against Persia, B. c. 500. Miletus having, in the

person of its tyrant, headed the expedition, had to

pay a severe penalty for its rashness. After re­

peated defeats in the field, the city was besieged by

land and by sea, and finally taken by storm B. c.

494. The city was plundered and its inhabitants

massacred, and the survivors were transplanted, by

order of Darius, to a place called Ampe, near the

mouth of tbe Tigris. The town itself was given up

to the Carians. (Herod, vi. 6, &c. ; Strab. xiv.

p. 035.)

The battle of Mycale, in b. c. 479, restored

the freedom of Miletus, which soon after joined

the Athenian confederacy. But the days of its

greatness and glory were gone (Thuc. i. 15, 115,

&c.) ; its ancient spirit <;f liberty, however, was not,

yet extinct, for, towards the end of the Peloponnesian

War, Miletus threw off the yoke imposed upon her

by Athens. In a battle fought under the very

walls uf their city, the Milesians defeated their op­

ponents, and Phrynichus, tbe Athenian admiral,

abandoned the enterprise. (Thuc. viii. 25, tec.)

Not long after this, the Milesians demolished a fort

which tbe Persian Tissaphernes was erecting in

their territory, for tbe purpose of bringing them to

subjection. (Thuc viii. 85.) In B. c. 334, when

Alexander, on his Eastern expedition, appeared be-

f >ro Miletus, the inhabitants, encouraged by the pre­

sence of a Persian army and fleet stationed at Mycale,

refused to submit to him. Upon this, Alexander im­

mediately commenced a vigorous attack upon the

walls, and finally took the city by assault A part of it

was destroyed on that occasion ; but Alexander par­

doned the surviving inhabitants, and granted them

their liberty. (Annan, Anab. i. 18, &c; Strab. /. c.)

After this time Miletus continued, indeed, to flourish

as a commercial place, but was only a second-rate

town. In the war between the Romans and Anti-

"I n». Miletus sided with the former. (l.iv. xxxvii.

16. xliii. 6.) The city continued to enjoy some de­

gree of prosperity at the time when Strata wrote,

and even as late as the time of Pliny and Pansanias.

(Camp. Tac. Ann. iv. 63, 55.) From the Acts

(xx 17), it appears that St. Paul stayed a few days

there, on his return from Macedonia and Troaa. In

the Christian times, Kpbesus was the we of a bi­

shop, who occupied the first rank among the bishops

of Caria; and in this condition the town remained

for several centuries (Hicrocl. p. 687; Mich. Due.

p. 14), until it was destroyed by tbe Turks and

other barbarians.

Miletui, in its best days, consisted of an inner

and an outer city, each of which had its own fortifi­

cations (Arrian L c), while its hurbours were pro­

tected by the group of the Tragusaean islands in front

of whieh Lade was the largest. Great and beau­

tiful as the city may have been, we have now no

meant of forming any idea of its topography, since

its site and ita whole territory have been changed

by the deposits of the Maeander into a pestilential

swamp, covering the remains of the ancient city

with water and mud. Chandler, and other tra­

vellers not being aware of this change, mistook the

ruins of Myns for those of Miletus, and describe

them as such. (Leake, Asia Minor, p. 239.)

Great as Miletus was as a commercial city, it is w

less great in the history of Greek literature, bring

tbe birthplace of the philosophers Thilea, Anax>

mander, and Anoximenes, and of the bistunaoa

Cadmus and Hecataeus.

The Milesians, like the rest of the Ionian,

were notorious for their voluptuousness and ef­

feminacy, though, at one time, they must bars

been brave and warlike. Their manufactures «f

couches and other furniture were very celebrated,

and their woollen cloths and carpets were particularly

esteemed. (Athen. 1. p. 28, xi. p. 428, xii. 540,

553, xv. 691; Virg. Gtorg. iii. .106, iv. 335; coma.

Kambach, lit Mile to rjusipu coloniu, HaW, 1794s,

4°; Schroeder, Comment, dt Jiebut Miitn i mm,

pan i. Stralsund, 1817,4°; Soldan, Herum Wit-

tiarum Comment. L Darmstadt, 1629, 4°.) [L.S.J

0O1S OF SlILETfS.

MILETUS, a town of Mysia, in the territory sf

Scepsis, on the river Evenus, which was destroyed

as early as the time of Pliny (v. 32.). Another

town of the same name in Pupblagonia, un the road

between Amastris and Siuope, is mentioned onlv ia

the Peuting. Table. [L. S.J

MILETUS (Mi'aittoi), a town of Crete, mrauuted

in the Homeric catalogue. (JL ii. 647.) This tows,

which no longer existed in the time of Strain, was

looked upon by some writers as the mother-city sf

the Ionian colony of the same name. (Kphonu, as.

Strab. xii. p. 573, xiv. p. 634; SchoL ApolL HL*L

L 186; Apollod. iii. 1, 2, 3; Plin. iv. 12.)

Mr. Pashley (Trap. vol. i. p. 269) explores! the

site of this Homeric city not far from Fpukuyiam*.

at which, considerable remains of walls of puligsanl

masonry, both of the acropolis and city are still te

be seen. (Hock, Kreta, vol. i. pp. 15,418.) [E.BJ.1

Mil.1.1 M, a lioinan -colonia" (- M.lru colon*.*

Prut. Tab.) in Nuiuidia, which the Antonine Iti­

nerary places at 25 M. P. from Ciru. There ess

be little doubt that this place, which, from the cir­

cumstance of two councils having been held there,

was of some importance (Mor«Hi, Africa Ckrutimmm,

vol. i. ]>. 228). was the same as Mim.t M (M<j*a»

of. Mvocuoy, Ptol. iv. 3. § 28). [E. B. J-]

MILICHUS. [Aciiaia, p. 13.K]

MILOL1TUM (ft. Ant. p. 322; MehUicam. ft.

llierot. p. 602; Mytoliton, Geogr. Kav. it. 6), a

town in tbe interior of Thrace, on the rasd fnsa

Maximianopolis to Trajanopolia. [A L.J

MILO'NiA. [Mabsi.]

MILVAS (MiAvo'i) is said to have been the as.

cient and original name of the country aftrrssres

called Lycia (Herod, i. 173) ; but during the penal

is? the Persian dominion, it was the nam* give* ht

the whole mountainous country in tbe surth ml

Lycia, the south of Pisidis, and • portion of *s»lars

I'iirygia. (Strab. xii. p. 573.) The boundsnsa sf

this country, however, were never properly fiassVssst

the whole of it is sometimes described as s pan d

Lycia. (Arrian, Anab. i. 25.) After thetmsw

of the dynasty of tbe Seleucidae in Syria, tst* anas)

Mil;.i» was limited to the south-western part s)

