ROMA. ROMA. 84 B

aoftbt Subli< i an bridge; whilst Becker, in his

■ Jfrru, held them (o belong to the Puns Acini-

i. Tint writer in the treatise alluded to (p.

!,•«).) nude three assertions respecting the Ae-

iua bridpe; (1) That it was not the same as the

run; (2) that it stood where the Sublirian is

UMljr placed, i. e. just below the Porta Trige-

u; (3) that it was distinct from the Pons La­

ma, or Lepidi. But in his llatidbuch, published

: '.ic following Tear, he rejected ail these

ntiooft except the first.

According to the most probable view of this

note and much disputed question at which we

imre, the matter appears to us to have stood

fcuMi: the Puna Subliciu* wu outside of the

u Trigemina, at the place where remains of a

lgt >tiU exist. The reasons for arriving at this

ioaoa have been stated at the beginning of thit>

wean. Another bridge, of stone, also called

on as, was ended close to it to serve the pur-

s «ti traffic; but the wooden one was still pre-

*1 at a venerable and sacred relic, and as to-  
inuWe in certain ancient religious ceremonies,

i ai tae precipitating fruin it the two dozen men

bav. But the stone bridge had also another

t, tiiat rf LapidetUj by way of distinction from

■ ■den bridge.

rcier t» of opinion that the notion of Aelhicus, or

■ Orator, tiiat Pons LapiJtus was only a vulgar

': t Pons Lepidit is a " falsae eruditionis con-

and we think so too. We do not believe

li» bridge ever bore the name of Lcpidus.

•ayw from the account given of the wooden

J iij Diuoyaius, that, though preserved in his

,4 is* useless fur ail practical purposes (iii. 45).

We may be sure that the pontifices would not have

taken upon themselves the repairs of a bridge subject

to the wear and tear of daily traffic. Ovid {Fast

v. 622) adverts to its existence, and to the sacred

purposes to which it was applied : —

"Tunc quoque priscorum virgo simulacra virorum

Mitten roboreo scirpea ponte solet."

The coexistence of the two bridges, the genuine

wooden t-ublioian, and its stone substitute, is shown

in the following passage of Plutarch: ot» yap

0 ■ un in1, oAA' itraparov rfyuaQai 'Pwnaiovt T^JP

Kard\vfftv tjjj fuAirni ytQvpai ... 'H 6c \i$lvn

woWols vartpuv ^tipyaadn y_p6vois tnr' Ai/xt\iov

rafxievotnos. {Num. 9.) Still more decisive is

the testimony of Servius: " Cum per Suhlicium

pontem, hoc est ligneuin, qui modo lapidcus dicitur,

transire conaretur (Poraena)" (ad A en. viii. 646).

There must certainly have been n strung and prac­

ticable bridge at an early period at this place, for

the heavy traffic occasioned by the neighbourhood of

the Emporium; but when it was first erected cannot

be said. The words of Plutarch, inr' AlfjuK'tov rafii-

tvovros, are obscure, and perhaps corrupt; but at

all events we must not confound this notice with

that in Livy respecting the building of the Pons

Aemilius ; the piles of which were laid in the cen­

sorship of M. Aemilius Lepidus and M. Fulvius

Xobilior, B.C. 179, and the arches completed some

yean afterw ards, when P. Scipio African us and L.

Mummius were censors (xl. 51). There is no proof

that the Ponte Rotto is the Pons Aemilius; but

Becker, in his second \iew, and Canina assume that

it was; and this view is us probable as any other.

I II■; UN \, WITH THE PONS FABRIC US AND PONS CESTIL'S.

** em several bridges at Rome before the

Aemiias was boilt, since Livy (xxxv. 21)

that fmo were carried away by the stream

f 193; and the** could hardly have been all,

■ . ijr»|.i<;b?eliv have said so. 1'he Insula

*i was, m very early times, connected with  
awe by two bridge*, and hence obtained the

W Umut Di-oa Pcurm (Plut. Popl. 8;

* Sat. ii. 12.) That nearest the city (now

<A>attn> Capi) was the Puns Kabricius, so

fnaa its founder, or probably its restorer,

L IL

L Fabric! us, as appears from the inscription on it,

and from Dion Cassias (xxxvii. 45). It was the

favourite resort of suicides: —

u jussit sapient em pascere barbam

Atque a Fabricio nun tristetn ponte reverti."

(Hor. S. ii. 3. 36.)

The bridge on the farther side of the island (now

Ponte S. Bartofommeo) is commonly called Pons

Ci.m h>, and appears to have borne that name in

3 i

