THKI1AE BOEOTIAE. THEBAE BOEOTIAE. 114?

Fhftr is mother important event in the mythical

rs of Thebes, which ra not interwo\'en with the

m of the legends already related. This is the

h of Hercules at Thebes, and the important ser-

* which he rendered to his native city by his

seamst Orchotnenua. It was stated that the

>bsw were compelled to pay tribute to Erginus,

r (<Orchomeniis; bat that they were delivered

i (be tribute by Hercules, who marched against

Hirnns, and greatly reduced its power (Paua. ix.

{1; Steak ix. p. 414 ; Died. iv. 18). This

»J has probably arisen from the historical fact,

(Vrranienus was at one time the most power-

rir? hi Boeotia, and held even Thebes in sub-

as.

twees in frequently mentioned in Homer, who

ks af its celebrated seven gates (/£ iv. 406,

n. 263); but its name does not occur in the

lofue of the Greek cities which fought against

r, as it was probably supposed not to have re-

mi from its recent devastation by the Epigoni.

r writers, however, related that Thersander, the

i I'ulynices, accompanied Agamemnon to Troy,

was slain in Mysia by Telephus, before the cuin-

^rwnt of the siege; and that upon his death

rWfaaos chose Peneleos as their leader, in ennse-

Ff tx* the) tender age of Tisamenus, the son of

saadar. (Paus. ix. 5. §§ 14, 15.) In the

(ii. 494) Peneleos is mentioned as one of the

m of the Boeotians, but is not otherwise cou­

rt! with Thebes.

rswdiog tn the chronology of Thucydides, the

nruns continued in possession of Thebes till

rears after the Trojan War, when they were

■n oat of their city and country by the Boeotians,

UJisn tribe, who migrated from Thessaly.

r. i. 12; St rub. ix. p. 401.) This seems to

teen the genuine tradition; but as Homer gives

ume uf Boeotians to the inhabitants of the coun-

'ailed Boeotia in later times, Thucydides en-

urs to reconcile the authority of the poet with

tber tradition, by the supposition that a portion

f Aeutic Boeotians bad settled in Boeotia pre-

•iT. and that these were the Boeotians who sailed

sa Troy. According to other accounts, Thebes

uarn by the Thracians and Pelasgians during

i ryjjan War, and its inhabitants driven into exile

-■waly, whence tliey returned at a later period,  
ik ix.' p. 401; Diod. xix. S3,)

tjMoiaa gives us a list of the kings of Thebes,

•tcresora of Tiaamenos, till the kingly dignity

sWisbed and a republic established in its place

'> i 16). But, with the exception of one event,

;»ow absolutely nothing of Theban history, till

!.-»pate between Thebes and Plataea in the latter

sf the sixth century B. c

event to which we allude is the legislation of

•earn, that Corinthian, who was enamoured of

also a Corinthian, and the victor in the

ipiao games, B c. 728. Both Philulaus and

w» left Ibeir native city and settl«l at Thebes,

■ the former drew np a code of laws fur the

-«tvi. of which one or two particulars are nien-  
d by ArUiotle. (Pol ii. 9. §§ 6, 7.) At Uie

whrn Tbebes first appears in history, wc find

*Vr sa oligarchical form of government, and the  
'i a political confederation of some twelve or

*m Boeotian cities. The greater cities of  
tie were members of this confederation, and the

rr towns were attached to one or other of these

i ta a state of dependence. [Bueotia, p. 415.]

The affairs of the confederation were managed \,j

certain magistrates or generals, called Boeotarchs, of

whom there were eleven at the time of the battle of

Delium (b. c. 424). two being elected by Thebes,

and one apparently by each of the other members uf

the confederation (Thuc. iv. 91). But the real

authority was vested in the hands of the Thehans,

who used the power of the confederation with an al­

most exclusive view to Theban interests, and kepi the

ether states in virtual subjection.

The first well-known event in Grecian history is

the dispute, already mentioned, between Thebes and

Plataea. The Plataeans, discontented with the

supremacy of Thebe., withdrew from the Boeotian

confederation, and surrendered their city to thu

Athenians. This led to a war between the Thebans

and Athenians, in which the Thebans were defeated

and compelled to cede to the Plataeans the territory

S. of the Asopus, which was made the boundary

between the two states. (Herod, vi. 108; Thuc.

iii. 68.) The interference of Athens upon this

occasion was bitterly resented by Thebes, and was

the commencement of the long enmity between the

two states, which exercised an important influence,

upon the course of Grecian history. This event is

usually placed in B.C. 519, upon the authority of

Thucydides (i c); but Mr. Grote brings furwanl

strong reasons for believing that it must have t;ikcu

place after the expulsion of Hippias from Athens

in B. c. 510. (Hut. of Greece, vol. iv. p. 222.)

The hatred which the Thebans felt against tho

Athenians wiis probably one of the reasons which

induced them to desert the cause of Grecian liberty

in the great struggle against the Persian power.

But in the Peloponnesian War (b.c. 427) the

Theban orator pleaded that their alliance with

Persia was not the fault of the nation, bat of a few

individuals who then exercised despotic power.

(Thuc. iii. 62.) At the battle of Plataea, however,

the Thebans showed no such reluctance, but fought

resolutely against the Athenians, who were |x»tc<l

opposite to them. (Herod, ix. 67.) Eleven days

after the battle the victorious Greeks appeared before

Thebes, and compelled the inhabitants to surrender

their meduing leaders, who were immediately put

to death, without any trial or father investigation.

(Herod, ix. 67, 88.) Thebes had lost so much

credit by the part she had taken in the Persian

invasion, that she was unable to assert her former

supremacy over the other Boeotian towns, which

were ready to enter into alliance with Alliens, and

would doubtless have established their complete

independence, had not Sparta supported the Tln-Uns

in maintaining their ascendency in the Itncutiau

confederation, as the only means uf securing tho

Boeotian cities as the allies of Sparta against Athens.

With this view the Spartans assisted the Thelians

in strengthening the furtificatinna of their city, anil

compelled the Boeotian cities by f-irce of arms to

acknowledge the supremacy of Thebes, (l)iod. xi.

81; Justin, iii. 6.) In B.C. 457 the Athenians

sent an army intu Boeotia to oppose the Lacedaemo­

nian forces in that country, hut they were defeated

by the latter near Tanagra. Sixty-two days after

this battle (b. c. 456), when the Laxwlarmoiiiaiis

liad returned home, the Athenians, under the com­

mand of Myronides, invaded Ilucotia a second time.

This time they met with the most signal success.

At tho battle of Oenophyta they defeated the com­

bined forces of the Thebans and Boeotians, and ob­

tained in consequence possession of Thebes and of

