METAPONTUM. 347 METAPONTUM.

these two cities in a league against Siris, with the

Tie* of expelling the Ionian colonists of that city.

(Justin, is. 2.) The war seems to have ended in

the capture and destruction of Siris, but our account

of it is rerr obscure, and the period at which it

took place very uncertain. [Siris.] It does not

appear that Metapontum took any part in the war

between Crotona and Sybaris, which ended in the

destruction of the latter city; but its name is fre­

quently mentioned in connection with the changes

introduced by Pythagoras, and the troubles conse-

qnent upon them. Metapontum, indeed, appears to

hare been one of the cities where the doctrines and

sect of that philosopher obtained the firmest footing.

Ereu when the Pythagoreans were expelled from

Crotona, they maintained themselves at Metapontum,

wbitber the philosopher himself retired, and where

he ended his days. The Metapontines paid the

rreatest respect to his memory; they consecrated

the house in which he had lived as a temple to

Ceres, and gave to the street in which it was situ­

ated the name of the Museum. His tomb was still

ahown there in the days of Cicero. (Iambi. Vit.

Pjtk. 170, 249, 266; Porphyr. Pit Pytk. 56, 57;

Pint ilt Geo. Soer. 13; Diog. Laert. viii. 1. § 40;

Liv. i. 18; Cic. ale Fin. v. 2.) The Metapontines

were afterwards called in as mediators to appease

the troubles which had arisen at Crotona; and ap­

pear, therefore, to have suffered comparatively little

themselves from civil dissensions arising from this

won*. (Iambi. 262.)

At the time of the Athenian expedition to Sicily,

B-c. 415, the Metapontines at first, like the other

stales of Magna Graecia, endeavoured to maintain a

strict neutrality; but in the following year were

induced to enter into an alliance with Athens, and

famish a small auxiliary force to the armament

under Demosthenes and Eurymedon. (Diod. xiii. 4;

Tirae. vi. 44, vii. 33, 57.) It seems clear that Me­

tapontum was at this time a flourishing and opulent

city; nor have we any reason to suppose that its

decline began until long after. From its position it

w« secured from the attacks of Dionysius of Syra­

cuse; and though it must have been endangered in

common with the other Greek cities by the advanc­

ing power of the Lucanians, it does not appear to

bare taken any prominent part in the wars with

that people, and probably suffered but little from

their attacks. Its name is again mentioned in

a. c 345, when Timoleon touched there on his ex-

fdition to Sicily, but it does not appear to have

taken any part in his favour. (Diod. xvi. 66.) In

a- c. 332, when Alexander, king of Epirus, crossed

over into Italy at the invitation of the Tarentines,

the Metapontines were among the first to conclude

«a alliance with that monarch, and support him in

his wan against the Lucanians and Bruttians.

Haute, after his defeat and death at Pandosia, B. c.

316, it was to Metapontum that his remains were

*»* for interment. (Justin, xii. 2; Liv. viii. 24.)  
Bat some years later, B. c. 303, when Cleonymus

of Sparta was in his turn invited by the Tarentines,

the Metapontines, for what reason we know not,

pursued a different policy, and incurred the rcsent-

*rat of that leader, who, in consequence, turned his  
°wu inns, as well as those of the Lucanians, against

Ihra- He was then admitted into the city on

friendly terms, but nevertheless exacted from them

* large mm of money, and committed various other  
"ceases. (Diod. xx'. 104.) It is evident that Me-

tar/aaum was at this period still wealthy; but its

citizens had apparently, like their neighbours the

Tarentines. fallen into a state of slothfulness and

luxury, so that they were become almost proverbial

for their effeminacy. (Plut. Apophth. Lac. p. 233.)

It seems certain that the Metapontines, as well as

the Tarentines, lent an active support to Pyrrhus,

when that monarch came over to Italy; but we do

not find them mentioned during his wars there;

nor have we any account of the precise period at

which they passed under the yoke of Rome. Their

name is, however, again mentioned repeatedly in the

Second Punic War. We are told that they were

among the first to declare in favour of Hannibal

after the battle of Cannae (Liv. xxii. 61); but not­

withstanding this, we find their city occupied by

a Roman garrison some years later, and it was not

till after the capture of Tarentum, in B. c. 212, that

they were able to rid themselves of this force and

openly espouse the Carthaginian cause. (Id. xxv. 11,

15; Pol. viii. 36; Appian, Annib. S3, 35.) Han­

nibal now occupied Metapontum with a Carthaginian

garrison, and seems to have made it one of his prin­

cipal places of deposit, until the fatal battle of the

Mctanrus having compelled him to give up the pos­

session of this part of Italy, is. c. 207, he withdrew

his forces from Metapontum, and, at the same time,

removed from thence all the inhabitants in order to

save them from the vengeance of Rome. (Id. xxvii.

1, 16, 42, 51.)

From this time the name of Metapontum does not

again appear in history; and it seems certain that

it never recovered from the blow thus inflicted on it.

But it did not altogether cease to exist; for its name)

is found in Mela (ii. 4. § 8), who does not notice any

extinct places; and Cicero speaks of visiting it in'

terms that show it was still a town. (Cic. rfe Fin.

v. 2; see also Appian, B. C. v. 93.) That orator,

however, elsewhere alludes to the cities of Magna

Graecia as being in his day sunk into almost com­

plete decay; Strabo says the same thing, and Pan- m

sanias tells us that Metapontum in particular was in

his time completely in ruins, and nothing remained

of it but the theatre and the circuit of its walls.

(Cic. de Amic. 4; Strab. vi. p. 262; Paus. vi. 19.

§11.) Hence, though the name is still found in

Ptolemy, and the " ager Metapontinus " is noticed in

the Liber Coloniarum (p. 262), all trace of the city

subsequently disappears, and it is not even noticed in

the Itineraries where they give the line of route

along the coast from Tarentum to Thurii. The site

was probably already subject to malaria, and from

the same cause has remained desolate ever since.

Though we hear much less of Metapontum than

of Sybaris, Crotona, and Tarentum, yet all accounts

agree in representing it as, in the days of its pro­

sperity, one of the most opulent and flourishing of

the cities of Magna Graecia. The fertility of its

territory, especially in the growth of corn, vied with

the neighbouring district of the Siritis. Hence we

are told that the Metapontiues sent to the temple at

Delphi an offering of "a golden harvest" (df oof

Xpvtrovv, Strab. vi. p. 264), by which we must

probably understand a sheaf or bundle of corn

wrought in gold. For the same reason an ear of com

became the characteristic symbol on their coins, the

number and variety of which in itself sufficiently

nttests the wealth of the city. (Milliugen, A'ttmit-

matique efe t/lal!e, p. 22.) We learn also that they

had a treasury of their own at Olympia still existing

in the days of Pausanias (Paus. vi. 19. § 11 ; Athen.

xi. p. 479). Herodotus tells us that they paid par­

