OXYBII. 507 OXYRYXCHUS.

A Om formerly fell into the gulf of Balkan. He

. ;ix aaihor of lit story that the Turkomans, in the

of prtvrating the diminution of its waters in the

::-f*r jar; of it* course, dammed up the mouth of

irmr. Etilence still more positive of the de'-

ixbt icto the Caspian of a considerable river

itri »now itry, is afforded by observations on the

nuart. putiiularlj in the ftiy 0/ Balkan. The

aria*, if Ibex is the survey of that bay by Captain

Wmft, in I "■(3, by order of Nadir Shall, who

'j-> Jown 1st embouchure of a river which he

ra takl vat the Oxus. (Hanway, Trav. vol. i. p.

n > Tie accuracy of his survey has been con-

irt*l b; the more elaborate investigations of the

mrejron, the results of which are embodied

aiatPtriplpj of the Caspian compiled by Eichwald

(ill Gaojr. d. Gup. Mteret, Berlin, 1838), and

tm lean no doubt that a river, which could have

« ts «/ier tJian the Oxus, formerly entered the

Cupu u the SE. of the Bat) of Balkan by two

w»tt: in one of these there are still pools of water;

aw Mass dry. How far they may be traceable

II rrt to be ascertained; but enough has been

i»l 10 justify the belief of the ancient world,

(fit* wn a channel of communication be-

lain and Vi. Asia. The ancients describe

M approaching the river from Bactra,

»u dUanl from it 400 stadia; their estimate

•met, and there are no fables about the breadth

u» 5». Arrian, who follows Aristobulus, says

t »ai 6 stadia. The very topography of the

may almost be traced in Curtius; for

n low and peaked hillocks near that passage

Una, while there are none below KUef. He

'•iat the Oxos was a muddy river that bore

as <lmt along with it; and Burnes (vol. ii. p. 7)

tiatoue-fortietbof the stream is clay suspended

•Mr. Folvbius' (i c.) statement about the im-

eoarae of the river and of its falls is untrue,

■awl is remarkably free from rocks, rapids,

|t viiripjok Ha has a strange story about the

r 1 which the Aspasii enter Hyrcania, either

tl» rauh formed by the fall of the waters

Stab, p. 5o). or over its submerged stream.

III fopukr belief that the waters of the Aral

If • icixerraneous channel to the Caspian. At

^ d'lcatUt, where the caravans halt, between

was, h is said by sotne that the water is

rating beneath. (Burn»s, vol. ii. p. 188.)

■tiajies tu which Von Humboldt (Atie Cen-

'•± A pp. 162— 197) arrived as to the phy-

**« which may have interrupted the connec-  
the Caspian and the Oxus are given

■tela Jaxakt&s. For all that concerns

awiam gvfraphy of the basin of the Oxus

,w*wss of our countrymen, to whom we owe

4 • k real knowledge of these countries,

i b araltal—Eli>hinstone, Bumes, Wood,

Professor Wilson (A riana, pp. 142 —

aas listed this long-vexed question with

■Kay, uA shown that there is every reason

the statements of the ancients that

»aa axt the great highway of nations,

at ea?v access to the great Aralo-Caspian

wawJE.B.J.]

111 ( OiiKtotX u a part of the Ligyes," as

1 arya («.«.), on the authority of Qua-

Stnia (p. 185) terminates his description

^ a«afGalha Sarbonensis, in which he pro-

*«rt l» east, by mentioning the harbour  
* cailnl from the Oxybii Ligyes. The

Oxybii were a Lignrian people on the south coast of

Gallia Narbonensis; but it is not easy to fix their

position precisely. They were west of the Var and

not far from it, and they were near to or bordered

on the Deciates. The Oxybii had a town Aegitna,

but its position is unknown. A brief sketch of the

history of this people is written under Dkciatks.

Pliny (iii. c 4) places the Oxybii east of the Ar-

genteus river (Argents) and west of the Deciates.

The Oxybii, therefore, occupied the coast east from

Frejus as far as the border of the Deciates, who

bad the remainder of the coast to the Var. An-

tipolis (Antibei) was in the country of the De­

ciates. [G. L.]

OXYDRACAE ('OJuSotwai), a great nation of

tho Panjdb, who, with the Malli, occupied the batiks

of the Hydaspes and Acesines, and strenuously re­

sisted the advance of Alexander through their coun­

try. It was a common belief of the ancients, that

it was in a battle with these people that Ptolemy

saved the life of Alexander, and hence obtained the

name of Soter. (Steph. B.) Arrian, however,

transfers the story to the siege of the Malli (Mul-

(tin), where Alexander was in imminent danger of

his life and was severely wounded (vi. 11), The

name is written in different ways by different

writers. Thus Strabo writes it Sydrocae (xv. p.

701), in which Pliny concurs (xii. 6), who makes

their country the limit of Alexander's advance east­

ward; in Diodorns they appear under tbe form of

Syracusae (xvii. 98); lastly, in Orosius as Saba-

grae (iii. 19). The name is clearly of Indian ori­

gin; hence it has been conjectured by Pott, that

the titles commencing in this manner represent the

Hellenized form of the Sanscrit Csathro (king) cor­

responding with the Zend Ceathra. (Pott, Etgm.

Fortch. p. lxvii.) [V.]

OXYDRANCAE ('0{uo>a7«:at), a tribe of an­

cient Sogdiana, appear to have occupied the district

to the N. of the Oxus, between that river and the

Jaxartes. (Ptol. vi. 12. § 4.) [V.]

OXYMAGIS ('0{tlfi07tr, Arrian, Indie. 4), a

river which flowed into the Ganges, according to

Arrian, in the territory of the Pazalae. The same

people are mentioned by Pliny (vi. 19) and Ptolemy

(vii. 2. § 15) under the name of Passalae; and may

be identified with the Sanscrit Pankala, and as

dwelling near Canjacubga, in the plain country be­

tween the Sumna and the Ganges. In the im­

mediate neighbourhood is the river Ixumtiti, which

has been doubtless Graecized into Oxumagis. The

Sanscrit appellation means "abounding in sugar­

cane," which applies perfectly to the land through

which it flows. (Of. Ritter, Alien, ii. p. 847;

Schwanbeck, Fragm. Megaslhenu, p. 28.) [V.]

OXY'NEIA ('Ofuf(io), a town of Tbessaly,

situated on the Ion, a tributary of the Peneius, and

perhaps the capital of the Talares, occupied pro­

bably the valley of Miritza. It is described by

Strabo as distant 120 stadia from Azorus. (Strab.

vii. p. 327; Leake, Northern Greece, vol. iv

p. 279.)

OXYRYXCHUS ('Oftipiryxor, Strab. xvii. p.

812; Ptol. iv. 5. § 59; Steph. B. 1. v.; Amm. Marc,

xxii. 16; Oxyrinchum, It. Anton, p. 157. ed. Par.

they: Eth. '0{opn7X'T)i "as the chief town of

tbe Xomoa Oxyrynchites, in Lower Aegypt. The

appellation of the nome and its capital was derived

from a fish of the sturgeon species (^ccipeiwer

Sturio, Linnaeus; Atlien. vii. p. 312), which was an

object of religious worship, and had a temple dedi­

