LANUVIUM. 121 LANUVIUM.

particularly mentioned, both among those that

fought at Pedum in B. c. 339, and the next year

at Astura (Liv. viii. 12, 13).* In the general

settlement of affairs at the close of the war La­

nuvium obtained the Roman civitas, but apparently

in the first instance without the right of suffrage;

for Festus, in a well-known passage, enumerates

the Lanuvini among the communities who at one

time enjoyed all the other privileges of Roman citi­

zens except the suffrage and the Jus Magis-

trataum (Liv. viii. 14 ; Festus, v. Munidphtni),

i statement which can only refer to this period.

We know from Cicero that they subsequently ob­

tained the full franchise and right of suffrage,

but the time when they were admitted to these

prmlef.es is unknown. (Cic pro Bali. 13.)

From this time Lanuvium lapsed into the con­

dition of an ordinary municipal town, and is men­

tioned chiefly in relation to its celebrated temple of

Juno Sospita. It did not, however, fall into decay,

lite so many of the early Latin cities, and is men-

tkdk-d by Cicero among the more populous and

flourishing municipia of Latium, in the same class

with Aricia and Tusculum, which he contrasts with

luch poor and decayed places as Labicum and Col-

latia (Cic de Leg. Agr. ii. 35). Its chief magi­

strate retained the ancient Latin title of Dictator,

*h>ch was borne by T. Annius Milo, the celebrated  
adversary of Clodius, in the days of Cicero. (Cic.

pro Mil 10; Orell. Inter. 3786.) Previous to this

period Lanuvium had suffered severely in the civil

nn of Marius and Sulla, having been taken by

the former at the same time with Antium and

Aricia, just before the capture of Rome itself,

B.C. 87. (Appian, B. C. i. 69; Liv. Epit. 80.)

Nor did it escape in the later civil wars: the

treasures of its temple were seized by Octavian,

and a part at least of its territory was divided

among a colony of veterans by the dictator Caesar.

(Appian, B. C. t. 24; Lib. Colon, p. 235.) It

subsequently received another colony, and a part of

n> territory was at one time allotted to the vestal

virgins at Rome. (Ibid.') Lanuvium, however,

never bore the title of a colony, but continued only

to rank as a municipium, though it seems to have

been a flourishing place throughout the period

rf the Roman Empire. It was the birthplace of

the emperor Antoninus Pius, who in consequence

frtquently made it bis residence, as did also his

sorcessors, M. Aurelius and Commodus: the last of

these three is mentioned as having frequently dis­

ced his skill as a gladiator in the amphitheatre

at Lanuvium, the construction of which may pro-

bail; be referred to this epoch. Inscriptions attest

its continued prosperity under the reigns of Alex­

ander Severus and Philippus. (Suet. Aug. 72;

Tac.ytira.iii. 48: Capit. Ant. Pius, 1; Lamprid.

Corood 1, 8; Vict, de Cats. 15; Orell. Inter.

SH, 3740, &c.)

Linavitun was the place from which several illus­

trious Human families derived their origin. Among

the* were the Annia, to which Milo, the adversary

* In the Fasti Capitolini (ad ann. cdxv.; Gruter,  
r 257) the consul C. Maenius is represented as

tekbrating a triumph over the Lavinians, together

*ith the Annates and Veliterni, where it appears  
certain from Livy's narrative that the Lanuvians

art the people really meant: a remarkable instance

•t bow ea, ly a period the confusion between the

two lames had arisen.

of Clodius, belonged by adoption, as well as the

Papia, from which he was originally descended; the

Roscia, and the Thoria (Cic pro Mil. 10; Ascon.

ad Milan, pp. 32, 53; Cic. de Divin. i. 36, ii. 31,

de Fin. ii. 20), to which may probably be added,

on the authority of coins, the Procilia and Mettia.

(Eckhel, vol. v. pp. 253, 267, 289, 293.) We

learn from Cicero that not only did the Roscia Gens

derive its origin from Lanuvium, but the celebrated

actor Roscius was himself born in the territory of

that city. (Cic. de Die. i. 36.)

But the chief celebrity of Lanuvium was derived

from its temple of Juno Sospita, which enjoyed a

peculiar sanctity, so that after the Latin War in

B. c. 338 it was stipulated that the Romans should

enjoy free participation with the Lanuvians them­

selves in her worship and sacred rites (Liv. viii. 14):

and althongh at a later period a temple was erected

at Rome itself to the goddess under the same de­

nomination, the consuls still continued to repair

annually to Lanuvium for the purpose of offering

solemn sacrifices. (Liv. xxxii. 30, xxxiv. 53; Cic.

pro Muren. 41.) The peculiar garb and attributes

of the Lanuvian Juno are described by Cicero (de

Nat. Dcor. i. 29), and attested by the evidence of

numerous Roman coins: she was always represented

with a goat's skin, drawn over her head like a

helmet, with a spear in her hand, and a small shield

on the left arm, and wore peculiar shoes with the

points turned up (calceoli repandi). On coins we

find her also constantly associated with a serpent;

and we learn from Propertius and Aelian that there

was a kind of oracle in the sacred grove attached to

her temple, where a serpent was fed with fruits and

cakes by virgins, whose chastity was considered to

be thus put to the test. (Propert. iv. 8 ; Aelian,

//. A. xi. 16, where the true reading is undoubtedly

Aayovtq), and not Aaoviviip; Eckhel, vol. v. p. 294.)

The frequent notices in Livy and elsewhere of

prodigies occurring in the temple and sacred grove

of Juno at Lanuvium, as well as the allusions to her

worship at that place scattered through the Roman

poets, sufficiently show how important a part the

latter had assumed in the Roman religion. (Liv.

xxiv. 10, xxix. 14, xxxi. 12, xl. 19; Cic de

Divin. i. 44, ii. 27; Ovid. Fast vi. 60; Sil. Ital.

xiii. 364.) We learn from Appian that a large

treasure had gradually accumulated in her temple,

as was the case with most celebrated sanctuaries;

and Pliny mentions that it was adorned with very

ancient, but excellent, paintings of Helen and Ata-

lanta, which the emperor Caligula in vain attempted

to remove (Plin. xxxv. 3. s. 6.) It appears from

a passage in Cicero (de Fin. ii. 20) that Juno was

far from being the only deity especially worshipped

at Lanuvium, but that the city was noted as abound­

ing in ancient temples and religious rites, and was

probably one of the chief seats of the old Latin re­

ligion. A temple of Jupiter adjoining the forum

is the only one of which we find any special men­

tion. (Liv. xxxii. 9.)

Though there is no doubt that Civita Ltivinia

occupies the original site of Lanuvium, the position

of which is well described by Strabo and Silius

Italicus (Strab. v. p. 239; Sil. Ital. viii. 360), and

we know from inscriptions that the ancient city con­

tinued in a flourishing condition down to a late

period of the Roman empire, it is curious that

scarcely any ruins now remain. A few shapeless

masses of masonry, principally substructions ncil

foundations, of which those that crown the summit

