SABIHT. SABINI. 869

frrrolej. (Ovid. Fast. vi. 215; Si). Ital. viii. 490;

jrtMt L 15; Angustin, Cir. Dei, xviii. 19; Am-

-jrh. Stmdirn. p. 170, Ac.) Among the other  
Mia whose worship is expressly said to have been

rmtucnl it Home by the Sabines, we find Sol,

r-jnia. Minerva and Mars, or Mamers, as he wan

M by the Sabines and their descendants. (Varr.

. L v. 74.) Minerra was, however, certainly an

noi diviniry also; and in like manner Vejovia,

. . Ifcaaa, and several other deities, which are said

;» of .Sabine extraction, were clearly common to

• Ijttioi abo, and probably formed part of the

rtUl^Tof all the Italian nations. (Varro, Lc;

irestni, C l». iv. 33; Schwegler, Hum. Gescb. i.

150 j Ambroaeh. I e. pp. 141—176.) On the

rt hanil Quirinos was certainly a Sabine deity,

[withstanding his subsequent identification with

> dnatd Romulus. His temple, as well as that of

•eat. stood on tlie Qoirinal hill, to which indeed

p*>b*bl* )r»ve name. (Varr. L.L. v. 51; Am-

ark, pp. 149. 169.)

I'.a.wetcd with the religions rites of the Sabines

r be mentioned their superstitious attachment to

rrV. incantations, which they i ontinued to practise

m to a late period, at well as their descendants

Hani and other Sabellian tribes, (llor. Epod.

Ii. Sat u 9. 29.) They were noted also for

r •kill, or pretended skill, in divination by dreams.

«. f .US.) The rites of aueury. and especially

cifires. or omens from the flight of birds, weie

osasaierad to be essentially of Sabine origin,

arb certainly common in more or less degree to

•tber nations of Central Italy. Attus Xavius,

"lebrmted angur in the reign of Tarqiiln the

t wtso was regarded by many as the founder of

of augury (Cic. de Dir. ii. 38),

and the institution of the "auspicia

«-a" waa also referred to Numa. (Cic. de

ii 14.)

a* Sabine language, as already observed, is

13 to as only from a few words preserved by

•a; writers. Varro, Festus, Ac. Some of these,

'x.iilra," ~ albus," "imperator," Ac, are well

>i is as as Latin words, though sai<l to have

aaHy |aa»irl into tliat language from the Sabines.

■a, each as "hirpus" or "irpus" for a wolf,

as" ar "qtiiria* (a spear), "nar" (sulphur),

(a bill), Ac. were altogether strange to

Latia, inousli still in use among the Sabines.

rr emeral peculiarity of the Sabine dialect,

vt-fc-h in itself proves it to have been a cognate

■fa with the Latin, is that it inserted the

xu ar r at the commencement of many words

st at Mw rouzh aspirate; thus they said

"falna." "fostis," "fostia," Ac, for the

i " btrma,* ** bed as," '* boslis." "hostia," Ac.

sa, U L- t. 97 . Feat. pp. 84, 102; Kleme, Phi-

pp. 70—76; Mummaen, U. I. Dia-

~~.) Tlie two last authors have

the little that we really know

/uace. It is not quite clear from

111, ,„|, of Varro how far the Sabine Ian-

i reaid ba considered as still existing in his

•sit it at ansa probable that it could no longer

mm+mi a» » language, though the

m ssianaaiiaas and forms referred to were still

as prurractal ama. (Klente, Le.)

• Mbinea. vra are told, dwelt principally in

as aaai rren their towns in the earliest times

trwaJled- (Strab t. p. 228; Dionys. ii. 49.)

„ mgt at* the points in which they were thought

tn resemble the Xacedsemonians (Pint. Rom. 16);

though it probably arose merely from their sim­

plicity of manners, and their retaining unchanged

the habits of primitive mountaineers. In accord­

ance with this statement we find very few towns

mentioned in their territory; and even of these

Rkate appears to have been the only one that was

ever a place of much importance. Iktkrocrka,

about 14 miles higher up the valley of the Velinus

(the name of which is still preserved in Antrodoco),

seems never to have been a municipal town; and it

is probable that the whole upper valley of the

Velinus was, municipally speaking, included in the

territory of Reate, as we know was the case with

the lower valley also, down to the falls of the river,

which formed the limit of the territory of the Sa­

bines on this side; lnteramna,as well as Nsrnia and

Ocriculum, being included in Umbria. Falacri-

m m, the birthplace of Vespasian, situated near the

sources of the Velinus, was certainly a mere village;

as was also Foruu (Citita Tummiisa). situated in

the cross valley which led from Interocrea to Ami-

ternum and formed the line of communication

between the valley of the Velinus and that of the

Aternus. Amitkrxum itself, though situated in

the valley of the Aternus, so that it would seem to

have more naturally belonged to the Vestini, was

certainly a Sabine city (Flin. iii. 12. s. 17; Strab.

v. p. 228), and was probably, next to Keate, tlie

most considerable that they possessed. KuRStA, in

the upper valley of the Nar, was the chief town of

the surrounding district, but was never a place of

much importance. The lower country of the Sabines,

between Keate and Home, seems to have contained

several small towns, which were of municipal rank,

though said by Strabo to be little more than villages.

Among these were Forum Now m, the site of

which may be fixed at Veecovio, on the banks of

the Imele, and Foul M Decii, the situation of which

is wholly unknown. Both these were, as the names

show, Roman towns, and not ancient Sabine cities;

the former appears to have replaced the Sabine

Caspeiua, which was probably situated at Atpra,

in the same neighbourhood. On the other hand

Curbs, the supposed metropolis of the Sabines that

had settled at Home, still retained its municipal!

rank, though not a place of much importance. The

same was the case with Erktum, which was, at

already observed, the last of the strictly Sabine towns

in proceeding towards Rome; though l'liny includes

Momentum and Fidenae also among the Sabines^

Besides these there were two towns of the name of

Trcbnla, both of which must probably be placed in

the southern part of the land of the Sabines. Of

these Trebixa HuTrsrA (the Mutuscae of Virgil,

Am. vii. 711) is represented by Monte Intone,

about 15 miles S. of Rieti, and on the right of the

Salarian Way; while Thebl°i.a Si fkekas may

perhaps be placed at 5. Antimo near Stroncone, in

the hills W. of Rieti. Lastly, Vakia, in the valley

of the Anio. 4 miles above Tibur, still called

Vkovaro, would appear to bave been certainly a

Sabine town; the whole valley of the Digentia

(Lictnza). with its villages of Mandela, Digentia,

and Fanum Vacunae (the well-known neighbour­

hood of Horace's Sabine farm), being included among

its dependencies. [Digkntia.]

The territory of tlie Sabines was traversed

throughout its whole extent by the Salarian Way,

which was from an early period one of the great

highroads of Italy. This proceeded from Route

3 K 3

