B JAZYGES. IB Kit A.

fating the native Slaves and resisting the power of

Rome. A portion of their territory was token from

them by Decebalus, which, after-Trajan's Dacian

conquests, was incorporated with the Koman do-

minion.H. (Dion Cass, xlviii. 10,11.) Pannonia and

Mucsia were constantly exposed to their inroads; but,

A.n. 171, they were at length driven from their

last holds in the province, and pushed across the

Danube, by M. Aurelius. In mid-winter they re­

turned in great numbers, and attempted to cross the

frozen stream: the Romans encountered them upon

the ice, ami inflicted a severe defeat. (Dion Cass.

Uxi. 7, 8, 1G.) At a Liter period, as the ltoman

Empire hastened to its fall, it was constantly exposed

to the attacks of these wild hordes, who, beaten one

day, appeared the next, plundering and laying waste

whatever came in their way. (Anun. Man-, xvii. 12,

13, xxix. 6.) The word * peace" was unknown to

them. (Flor. iv. 12.)

They called themselves " Sarmatac Limigantes,"

and were divided into two classes of freemen and

slaves, '*.Sarmatae Liberi," " Sarmatae Scrvi." Am-

mianus Marccllinus (xvii. 13. § 1) calls the subject

class " Liniigantcs" (a word which has been falsely

explained by •' Limitanei"), and St. Jerome (CAroa.)

says that the ruling Sannalians had the title " Arca-

garantes." By a careful comparison of the accounts

given by Dion Cassius, Ammianus, Jerome, and the

writer of the Life of Constantine, it may be clearly

made out that the Sarmatian lazyges, besidea sub-

jugating theGetae in Daciaand on the Lower Danube,

had, by force of arms, enslaved a people distinct from

the Gctac, and living on the Theisa and at the foot

of the Carpathians. Although the nations around

them were called, both the ruling and the subject

race, SarmatiaiM, yet the free Sarmntians were en­

tirely distinct from the servile population in language,

customs, and mode of life. The lazyges, wild, bold

riders, scoured over the plains of the Danube and

Theisa valleys on their unbroken horses, while their

only dwellings were the waggons drawn by oxen in

which they carried their wives and children. The

subject Sarmatians, on the other hand, had wooden

houses and villages, such as those enumerated by

Ptolemy (i c); they fought more on foot than on

horseback, and were daring seamen, all of which

peculiarities were eminently characteristic of the

ancient Slaves. (Schafarik, vol. i. p. 230.)

The Slaves often rose against their masters, who

■ought an alliance against them among the Victofali

and Quadi. (Ammian. i c; Euseb. ViL Constant.

iv. 6.) The history of this obscure and remarkable

warfare (a. d. 334) is given by Gibbon (c. xviii.;

eomp. Le Beau, Bat Empire, vol. L p. 337; Manao,

Lebrn Conttantint, p. 195). In A. D. 357—359 a

new war broke out, in which Constantiua made a

successful campaign, and received the title "Sar-

maticus." (Gibbon, c. xix.; Le Beau, vol. ii. pp.

245—273.) In a. n. 471 two of their leaders,

Benga and BabaT, were defeated before Singidunum

(btljrnde) by Theodoric the Ostrogoth. (Joniand.

at Keb. Get 55; com p. Gibbon, c, mil. j Le Dean,

vol. rii. p. 44.) The hordes of the Huns, Gepidae,

and Goths broke the power of this wild people, whose

descendants, however, concealed themselves in the

desert districts of lb* Tbeiss till the arrival of the

Magyars.

Another branch of the Sarmatian lazyges were

settled behind tbe Carpathians in Podlackia, ami

were known in history at the eud of the 10th cen­

tury of our era; it is probable that they were among

the northern tribes vanquished by Mermanric in A. n-

332—350, and that they were the same people as

those mentioned by Jornandes (<fc litb. Get. 3) under

the corrupt form IxAi'.tXES.

There is a monograph on this subject by Hennig

(Comment de llebut Ituyyum S. lattingorum,

Regiomont, 1812); a full and clear account of

the fortunes of these peoples will be found in the

German translation of the very able work of Scha­

farik, the historian of tbe Slavish races.

In 1799 a gulden dish was found with an in­

scription in Greek characters, now in the imperial

cabinet of antiquities at Vienna, which has been re­

ferred to the lazyges. (Von Hammer, Oman.

Cttch. vol. iii. p. 726.) [E. B. J.]

IBAN ('ISa*, Cedren. vol. ii. p. 774), a city

which Cedrenus (to.) describes as the metropolis of

Vasbouragan (u.wrpdiroAw 8s aorij too Baava-

oajcdV).

The name survives in the modem Win. St.

Martin, the historian of Armenia (item, fur I'Ar-

menie, vol. i. p. 117), says that, according to native

traditions, Yin is a very ancient city, the founda­

tion of which was attributed to Semiramis. Ruined in

course of time, it was rebuilt by a king called Van,

who lived a short time before the expedition of Alex­

ander the Great, and who gave it his name; but,

having again fallen into decay, it was restored by

Vagh-Arshag (Valarsases), brother to Arsascs, and

first king of Armenia of the race of the Arsasidae.

In the middle of tbe 4th century after Christ it was

captured by Sapor II. (Ritter, Enllcunde, vol. ix. pp.

787, 981; London Geog. Journal, vol. viii. p. 66.)

[AllTKMITA BCASIA.] [E. B. J.]

1BEK. LIhkbus.]

• IliK'KA, a city of Hispania Citerior, mentioned

only by Livy, who gives no explicit account of its

site, further than that it was near the Iberus (tiro),

whence it took its name; but, from the connection

of the narrative, we may safely infer that it was not

far from tbe sea. At the time referred to, namely,

in the Second Punic War, it was the wealthiest city

in those parts. (Liv. xxiii. 28.) The manner in

which Livy mentions it seems also to warrant the con­

clusion that it was still well known under Augustus.

Two coins are extant, one with the epigraph Ml'M.

iiibera julia on the one side, snd iixiicavuxia

on the other; and the other with the head of Ti­

berius on the obverse, and on the reverse the epi­

graph M. H. J. 1LEKCAV02IIA; whence it appears

to have been made a municipium by Julius, or by

Augustus in his honour, and to hare been situated

in the territory of the Ileiicaoxes. The addition

debt, on the latter of these coins led Harduin to

identify the place with Dertosa, the site of which,

however, on the left bank of the river, does not

agree with the probable position of lbera. Klora

supposes the allusion to be to a treaty between

lbera and Dertosa. The ships with spread sails, on

both coins, indicate its maritime site, which modem

geographers seek on the S. side of the delta of tbe

Ebro, at S. Carlo* dt la Hapita, near Ampotta.

Its decay is easily accounted fur by its lying out of

the great high road, amidst the malaria of the river*

delta, and in a position where its port would he

choked by tho alluvial deposits of the A"4ro. It

seems probable that the port is now represented by

the Salinas, or lagoon, called Puerto dt lot Atfaqutt,

which signifies Port of the Javt, i. e. of tbe river*

(Plin. iii. 3. s. 4; Harduin, ml loc.; liana, llisjK

ii. 8; Klorex, Mtd, at Etp. voL ii. p. 453; Stslini,

