LATHRIPPA. 131 LATIUM.

of the localities. Thus the laborious, bat often most

inaccurate, compiler Forbigcr, while taking on himself

to correct Strain's exact account, tells ns that "the

river and lake (Strabos harbour) have now entirely

vanished ;" and ret, a few lines down, he refers to a

pa.-'sa^e of Beechey» work within a very few pages

of the place where the river itself is actually de­

scribed I (Forbiger, Handbuch der altcri Geographic,

vol. ii. p. 828, note.)

The researches made in Beechey's expedition

pre the following results :—East of the headland on

which stands the rains of Hesperides or Berenice (now

Bengaa) is a small lake, which communicates with

the harbour of the city, and has its water of course

silt. The water of the lake varies greatly in quan­

tity, according to the season of the year; and is

nearly dried up in summer. There are strong grounds

to believe that its waters were more abundant, and

i:s communication with the harbour more perfect, in

indent times than at present. On the margin of the

Uk* is a spot of rising ground, nearly insulated in

wiater,« which are the remains of ancient buildings.

List of this lake again, and only a few yards from its

marzin, there gushes forth an abundant spring of

fresh water, which empties itfelf into the lake, "run-

rinj along a channel of inconsiderable breadth, bor-

■fcred with reeds and 11151163,*' and " might be mistaken

by a common observer for an inroad of the lake into

the sandy soil which bounds it." Moreover, this is

the only stream which empties itself into the lake;

and indeed the only one found on that part of the

coast of Cyrenaica. Now, even without searching

farther, it is evident how well all this answers to the

Ascription of Strabo (xvii. p. 836) :—" There is a

pnewntory called Pseudopenias, on which Berenice is

citnated, beside a certain Lake of Tritonia (irapot

kuanp ti*A T>*Te*v«£8a), in which there is generally

(uiAiora) a little inland, and a temple of Aphrodite

odijo it: but there is (or it is) also the Harbour of

Huperidte, and the river Lsthon falls into it." It

i* dow evident how much the sense of the descrip­

tion wnuld lie impaired by reading kifttnj for Xtuvjv in

tv list clause: and it matters but little whether

KrJx> speaks of the river as falling into the harbour

Wao«e it fell into the lake which communicated

*i:h the harbour, or whether he means that the lake,  
*aicb he calls that of Tritonis, was actually the bar­  
ker (that is, an inner harbour) of the city. But the

I»t:k *treain which falls into the lake is not the only

n-tresentative of tiie river Lathon. Further to the

•ast, in one of the subterranean caves which abound

« the neighbourhood of Beugazi, Beechy found a

larre body of fresh water, losing itself in the bnwels

rf the earth ; and the Bey of Beugazi atlinned that he

bad tricked its subterraneous course till he doubted

the aafety of proceeding further, and that he had

farad it ma much as 30 feet deep. That the stream

ttnu lost ia the earth is the same which reappears in

u* spring on the margin of the lake, is extremely

peohahV; but whether it be so in fact, or not, we

can hardly doubt that the ancient Greeks would

nru^ine the connection to exist. (Beechey, Procted-

t*j'. re. pp. 326, foil.; Barth, Wanderungen, tfe. p.

»:. [I\o.]

LATHRIPPA (AaBpiwwa), an inland town of

Arabia Felix, mentioned by Ptolemy (vi. 7. §31),

vlach there ia no difficulty in identifying with the

anewit name of the renowned El-Medinch, "the

fl^y* m ii is oiled by emphasis among the disciples

•f the false prophet Its ancient name, Yuthrib,

■till exUts in the native geographies and local tra-

ditions, which, with the definite article el prefixed,

is as accurately represented by Lithrippa as the

Greek alphabet would admit. "Meduith is situated

on the edge of the great Arabian desert, close to the

chain of mountains which traverses that country

from north to south, and is a continuation of Libanon.

The great plain of Arabia in which it lies is con­

siderably elevated above the level of the sea. It is

ten or eleven days distant from Afelka, and has been

always considered the principal fortress of the

Hedjaz, being surrounded with a stone wall. It is

one of the best-built towns in the East, ranking in

this respect next to Aleppo, though ruined houses

and walls in all parts of the town indicate how far

it has fallen from its ancient splendour. It is sur­

rounded on three tides with gardens and plantations,

which, on the east and south, extend to the distance

of six or eight miles. Its population amounts to

16,000 or 20,000 —J0,000 or 12,000 in the town,

the remainder in the suburbs." (tiurckbardt, A rabta,

321—WO; Bitter, Erdhande, vol. i. p. 15, ii.

pp. 149, &c.) [G.W.]

LATIUM (^AttWwi: Eth. and Adj. Latinus),

was the name given by the llomans to a district or

region of Central Italy, situated on the Tyrrhenian

sea, between Etruria and Campania.

I. Name.

There can be little doubt that Latium meant

originally the land of the Latini, and that in this,

as in almost all other cases in ancient history, the

name of the people preceded, instead of being derived

from, that of the country. But the ancient Boinan

writers, with their usual infelicity in all matters of

etymology, derived the name of the Latini from a

king of the name of Latinus, while they sought for

another origin for the name of Latium. The com­

mon etymology (to which they were obviously led by

the quantity of the first syllable) was that which

derived it from '* lateo ;'* and the usual explanation

was, that it was so called because Saturn had there

lain hid from the pursuit of Jupiter. (Virg. Aen.

viii. 322; Ovid, Fasti. 238.) The more learned

derivations proposed by Saufeius and Varro, from the

inhabitants having lived hidden in caves (Saufeius,

ap. Serv. ad Aen. i. 6), or because Latium itself

was as it were hidden by the Apennines (Varr. ap.

Serv. ad Aen. viii. 322), are certainly not more sa­

tisfactory. The form of the name of Latium would

at first lead to the supposition that the ethnic La­

tini was derived from it; but the same remark ap­

plies to the case of Snmnium and the Samnite*,

where we know that the j*ople, being a race of

foreign settlers, must have given their name to the

country, and not the converse. Probably Latini is

only a lengthened form of the name, which was

originally Latii or Latvi; for the connection which

has been generally recognised between Latini and

Laviniurn, Latinus and Lavinus. seems to point to

the existence of an old form, Latvinus. (Doualdf-on.

Varronianus, p. 6; Niebuhr, V.u, L.Kunde, p. 352.)

Varro himself seems to regard the name of Latium

as derived from tliat of Latinus {I.I,, v. § 32);

and that it was generally regarded as equivalent to

'• the land of the Latins" is sufficiently proved by

the fact that the Greeks always rendered it by rj

Aarirrij or rj Aarivwv 71J. The name of Adrtoy is

found only in Greek writers of a late period, who bor­

rowed it directly from the Unmans. (Appian, B. V.

ii. 26; Herodian, i. 16.) From the same cause it

must have proceeded that when the Latini ceased to

K 2

