891 SAMNIUM. SAMNIUM.

But the peace thus concluded was of short dura­

tion. Little more than five years elapsed between

the close of the Second Samnite War and the com­

mencement of the Third. It might well have been

thought that, after a struggle of more than twenty

years' duration, the resources of the Samnites, if not

their spirit, would have been exhausted; but they

seem to have been actively engaged, even before the

actual outbreak of hostilities, in organising a fresh

coalition against Rome. A new and formidable

auxiliary had appeared in a large body of Gauls,

which had recently crossed the Alps, and, uniting

with their countrymen the Soaonca, threatened the

Romans from the N. Rome was at this time en­

gaged in war with the Etruscana and Umbrians,

and the Etruscans hastened to secure the services of

the Gauls. Meanwhile the Samnites, deeming the

attention of the Romans sufficiently engaged else­

where, attacked their neighbours the Lucanians,

probably with the view of restoring the power in

that country of the party favourable to the Samnite

alliance. The op]>osite party, however, called in

the Romans to their assistance, who declared war

against the Samnites, and thus began the Third

Samnite War, B. o. 298. (Lit. x. 11.) The

contest had now assumed larger dimensions; the

Samnites concluded a league with the Etruscans,

Umbrians, and Gauls, and for several successive cam­

paigns the operations in Samnium were subordinate

to those in the valley of the Tiber. But the ter­

ritory of Samnium itself was at the same time ravaged

by the Roman generals in so systematic a manner,

that it is clear they had obtained a decided supe­

riority in the field ; and though the Samnites on one

occasion retaliated by laying waste the Campanian

and Falernian plains, they were soon again driven

back to their mountain fastnesses. (Liv. x. 15, 17,

20.) At length, in b. c. 295, the great battle of

Sentinum, in which the united forces of the Gauls and

Samnites were totally defeated by the Roman consul

Q. Fabius, decided the fortune of the war. Gellius

Kgnatius, the Samnite general, who had been the

main organiser of the confederacy, was slain, and the

league itself virtually broken up. (Liv. x. 27—3D.)

Nevertheless the Samnites continued to carry on the

war with unabated energy; and in B.C. 293 they

raised a fresh army of 40,000 men, levied with

solemn sacred rites, and arrayed in a peculiar garb.

These circumstances sufficiently prove the import­

ance which they attached to this campaign, yet its

result was not more successful than those which

had preceded it, and the Samnite armies were again

defeated by the consuls L. Papirius Cursor and Sp.

Caivilius in two successive battles near Aquilonia

and Cominium. (Liv. x. 38—45.) The opera­

tions of the subsequent campaigns are imperfectly

known to us, from the loss of the books of Livy in

which they were related: but the next year (b. c.

292) C. Pontius, the victor of the Caudine Forks,

reappears, after a long interval, at the head of the

Samnite armies; he defeated Q. Fabius, but was in

his turn defeated in a far more decisive engagement,

in which it is said that 20.000 Samnites were slain,

ami 4000 taken prisoners, including C. Pontius

himself,who was led in triumph by Fabius, and then

put to death. (Oros. iii. 22; Liv. EpiL xi.) It is

probable that this battle gave the final blow to the

Samnite power, yet their resistance was still pro­

longed for two years more; and it was not till b. c.

290 that they consented to lay down their arms

and sue for peace. Even in that year the consul

M'. Curius Den tat us could still earn the kooc c!

a triumph, and the fame of baring put ic &a to

the Samnite wars after they had listed fotsn

than fifty years. (Liv. EpiL xL; Euirop.il 9.)

The conclusion of the Third Samnite 1st is re­

garded by some of the Roman historians ■ tin Aw

of the struggle between Rome and S*mmw- lai

not without reason, for though the name tf tit

Fourth Samnite War is given by modern writes to

the war that broke out afresh in b.c &i &

Samnites on that occasion certainly figure nihra

auxiliaries than as principals. They, however, ;asei

the league which was formed at the insuginsfi a*

the Tarentines against Rome; and bore i put a

all the subsequent operations of the war. Tttj

seem indeed to have at first looked with jeaieurr*

suspicion upon the proceedings of Pyrrbus; nil

was not till after the battle of Heracles thai tlsf j

sent their contingent to his support. (Pint Pf7*' \

17.) But in the great battle at Asculum the I*

lowing year (b. c. 278) the Samnites bore is i

portant part, and seem to have sustained tfc

ancient reputation for valour. (Dioxiys. U- **•!

Didot.) The departure of Pyrrhus for

shortly after, and his filial defeat by IT.Corns

Beneventum after his return (n. c. 274), »ft 1

Samnites and their allies to bear the whole ki

of the war, and they were wholly unabie to a

tend with the power of Rome. We know neck

in detail of these last campaigns: we team «4j

that in b. c. 272, just before the fall of TiraBj

the Samnites, as well as their allies the Luav

and Bruttians, made their final and absolute i

mission; and the consul Sp. Carvilins celebiatei

last of the long series of triumphs over the

(Zonar.viii. 6; Lit. Epit.xir.; FastCajnL) Al

revolt indeed broke out in the N. of Samniaa 0

years afterwards, among the petty tribe of the 0

ceni, hut was speedily suppressed, before it asi

tained any more formtdi&bie character. (Zs

viii. 7; Dionys. xx. 9, Fr. Mai.)

We have no account of the terms on wait*

Samnites were received to submission by tbeftaaj

or of their condition as subjects of the repablc

there can be no doubt that the policy of the A

nant people was to break up as much as pa

their national organisation and all bone* of 1

between them. At the same time two coloaia'

established as fortresses to keep them in check:

at Beneventum, in the country of the Hirj as

268), and the other at Aesemia, in the TaUeyi"

Vulturnus (n. c. 264). All the.-* precaatKm

ever, did not suffice to secure the : - '} «f

Samnites during the Second Punic War. i

the battle of Cannae (n.c 216), the ILrpini

among the first to declare themselves ia bbM

Hannibal, and their example is said to hat*

followed by all the Samnites, except the Peafl

(Liv. xxii. 61.) It is singular that this tribe,

the most powerful and warlike of all, abseM

thus held aloof; but the statement of Larr i

firmed by the subsequent coarse of the war, 4

which the Pent rums never seem to have

part, while the land of the Hirpini, and the

portions of Samnium bordering oa Li

frequently the scene of hostilities. Bat theft

colonies Aesemia and Beneventum never flal

the hands of the Carthaginian*; and the

through a great part of the war held by one4

Roman generals, as a post of the utmost aai

importance, lu n.c. 214 and again in a-«i

