988 SIC1L1BBA

of strictly maritime route around the southern ex­

tremity of the island from Agrigentum to Syracuse;

but with the exception of Pinlis, which is probably

Phintias (Alicato), none of the stations can be

identified. Lastly, a line of road was in use which

crossed the island from Agrigentum direct to Pa-

nonnus {Itin. Ant. p. 96), but none of its stations

are known, and we are therefore unable to determine

even its general course. The other routes given in

the Itinerary of Antoninus are only unimportant

variations of the preceding ones. The Tabula gives

only the one general line amund the island (crossing,

however, from Calvisiana on the S. coast direct to

•Syracuse),and the cross line already mentioned from

Thermae to Catana. All discussion of distances

along the above routes must be rejected as useless,

until the routes themselves can be more accurately

determined, which is extremely difficult in so hilly

and broken a country as the greater part of the

interior of Sicily. The similarity of names, which

in Italy is so often a suro guide where all other in­

dications are wanting, is of far less assistance in

Sicily, where the long period of Arabic dominion has

thrown the nomenclature of the island into great

confusion. [E. H. Ii.]

COW OK SICILIA.

SICILIBBA or SICILIBRA (in the Geogr. Rav.

Siciliba, iii. 5), a place in Africa Propria {/tin. Ant.

pp. 25, 45), variously identified with BaxUbak and

Ilaottch Alouina. [T. H. D.]

SI'CINOS (lOttvos: Eth. 'XiKivlrns: Si kino), a.

small island in the Aegaean sea, one of the Sporades,

lung between Pholegandros and Ios, and containing

a town of the same name. (Seylax, p. 19; Strab.

x. p. 484; Ptol. iii. 15. § 31.) It is .said to have

been originally called Oenoo from its cultivation of

the vine, hut to have been named Sicinos after a son

of Tfaoaa and Oenoe*. (Steph. li. s. p.; A poll. BbotL

i. 623; Scbol. ad toe.; Plin. iv. 12. s. 23; Etym.

H. p. 712. 49.) Wine is still the chief production

of the island. It was probably colonised by Ionians.

Like most of the other Grecian islands, it submitted

to Xerxes (Herod, viii. 4). but it afterwards formed

part of the Athenian maritime empire. There are

some remains of the ancient city situated upon a lofty

and rugged mountain, on whose summit stands the

church of S. Marina. There is also still extant an

ancient temple of the Pythian Apollo, now converted

into the church Epukopi (?) 'EttutkoW;). It stands

in a depression between the main range of moun­

tains, and the summit lying more to the left, upon

which the ruins of the ancient city stand. We

learn from an inscription found there by Ross that

it was the temple of the Pythian Apollo. (Ross,

ReUen cmf dm Crieck. Imeln, vol. it. p. 149, Kq.;

Fiedler. Ante, vol. ii. p. 151, tea.)

SICOK. [Skcok.]

Sl'COKIS (Sfapir, Dion Cass. xlL 20), a tri­

butary river of the Iheras in Hispania Tarracooenaia.

It rose in the Pyrenees in the territory of the Cer-

SICU

retani, and separated the

and Lacetani. It flowed ]

to Vibius Sequester (p. 5

name of that town. A lil

the Cinga, and then flon

Octogesa. (Caes. B. C. L

Lucan. iv. 13, seq.) Aus

ing impetnously (" torrei

Now the Stgre.

SI'CULl (2uc«XoO, is 1

writers to an ancient race

of the elements in the prir

as well as Sicily. But thi

are very confused and i

Siculi mentioned: 1. as ar

of Latium; 2, in the es

Sicily; 4, on the shores of

convenient to examine the

1. The Siculi are repi

the earliest inhabitants of

called Latium (i. 9), as w

of Etruria; they were an

of whose wanderings and

They held the whole cour.

from it by the people w

descending from the mc

[Aborigines], who mad

junction with the Pelasgi

traded struggle, wrested I

another (Id. i. 9, 16). J

cj-prcssly mentioned by 1

occupied by the Siculi, a

the city was still called

StacAufir, Ficulea, Anteir

as Faleiii and Feaeennit

wards called Etruria (h

Siculi being thus finally f

sions in this part of lta

migrated in a body to the

peninsula, from whence tl

and established themselv

to which they gave the

borne. [Sicilia.] (M

only author who has left

the conquest and expuk

are mentioned by Pliny t

successively occupied I-

and this seems to have

received tradition,

2. We find the Siculi f

southernmost portion of t:

they appear in close conn*

Morgetes,and I tali, all of

there are good reasons foi

race. [Oenotria.] It i

Strabo, that the Siculi, t

by Homer (Odyss. xx. 3

the inhabitants of the

Ithaca: and the tradition

criana, reported by Polybii

people in whose territory t

they first found themselv*

xii. 5, 6 ) Numerous ti

Dionysius (i. 22, 73)

nicus, and others, concur

thcir eponymous leader 5

connection with Italus I

confirmed by the linguist

be admitted to exist bet'

(Niebnhr, vol. i. p. 4?

enough to be in it&ell

