1052 SYBARIP. SYBARIS.

district of Oman. The maps pre no bay to the W.

of Syagros, where the Tret us Port us was situated.

The Peri pi ox says that tlie cape extended outward,

placet a castle with a hari»our and magazine at

Syagros, and describes, in connection with it, the

Diosooridui Insula (Soeotora), which Pliny places

at a distance of 2240 stadia.

There its no difficulty in identifying this promon­

tory Syagros with the modern has Fartask; winch

derives its designation froin the snout of the animal

commemorated in its Greek name, which was pro­

bably a loose translation of its native appellation*

The Peri pi as describes Syagrua an the largest pro­

montory in the world, — an hyperbolical expression,

no doubt, but better suited to this cape than to any

other on the coast, since the isolated mountain that

forma Rat Fartask reaches an elevation of 2500 feet,

and is visible at a distance of 60 miles; while those

of HtU Samgra (al. SanLira), further to the E., some­

time.-* identified with SyagRM on account of the Simi­

larity of name, do not exceed 600 feet. The subject,

it must be admitted, is not free from difficulty,

mainly owing to the fact that Ptolemy places Moacha

Port ns,—which is usually supposed to be the same as

the Moseha Port us of the Penplus, and is identified

with liztifar or Saphar,— W. of Syagros; in which

case litis Xoos (al. Xous), or has SoHtgra (al. Siu-

kirn), must be his Syagros, and the Saclmlites

Sinus still further K. But since the distance be­

tween Socatra anil the coast at has Fartask, about

2000 stadia, approximates much more nearly to

Pliny's figures, 240 M.P.(= 2240stadia), than that

between the same i.-land and either of the other

caj*>>,—for has Xoos is 3600 stadia distant, and has

Sawjra considerably more,—the most probable solu­

tion of the difficulty is found in the hypothesis

adop'cd above, of two ports called Moscha on the

same coast. [Moscha.] (See M tiller's Notes to

Didot't td. of the Gtogr. Grate Min. vol. i. pp.

279, 280.) The question has been examined by

IV in Vincent, who was the first to fix correctly this

nn|»ortant |»>int in Arabian geography, and his main

conclusions are acquiesced in by Air. Furster, who

has corrobonited them by fresh evidence from the

researches of modern travellers; and it is an in-

tereating fact, that while the Greek geographers

appear to have translated the native name ot the

cat*, which it retains to this day, the natives wonld

appear to have adopted a modification of that Greek

translation as the name of the town situated, then as I

now, under the cape, which still bears the name of

Sagger. (Vincent, Pertplus, vol. ii. pp. 331 —351;

Pursier, Arabia, vol. ii. pp. 166 —177 ) [G. W.]

SY'BAKIS (Ivfopu: Kth. Svduifrwf,Sybarite),

a celebrated city of Magna Graecia, situated on the

W . shore of the Tarentine gult, but a short distauce

from the sea, between the rivers Crathil and

Sybaris. (Strab. ri. p. 263; Diod. xii. 9.) The

last of these, from which it derived its name, was

the stream now called the Coscile, which at the

present dav falls into the Crati about 3 miles from

its mouth, but in ancient times undoubtedly pursued

an independent course to the sea. Syhuris was

apparently the earliest of all the Greek colonies in

this part of Italy, being founded, according to the

statement of Scymnns Chios, as early as B. c. 720.

(Scymn. Ch. 360; Clinton, /*. //. vol. i. p. 174.)

It was an Achaean colony, and its Oekist was a

citizen of Helice in Achaia: but with the Achaean

emigrants were mingled a number of Troezenian

citizens. The Achaean*, however, eventually ob­

tained the preponderance, and drt-ve r-«t tlw Tra

zeniaiis. (Strab. L c; Anst. J'uL v. 1)

Sybarites indeed appear to have sought f-xidoij

in heroic times; and Solinus baa a son tan t

first founder of the city was a mo of Aju<

(Sotin. 2. § 10); but this is evidently t

and the city was, historically tjeikinr. ■

an Achaean colony. It roe rapfcily to pea |

sperity, owing in the first instance to the fertility 4

the plain in which it was situated. It* citizen

contrary to the policy of many of the Greek 1

lively admitted settlers of other rations u tbenri

of citizenship, and the vast population of tie 1

is expressly ascribed in great measure to tlua a

(Diod, xii. 9.) The statement* transmittal i

of the ]tower and opulence of the city, a» »eii ■ <

the luxurious habits of its inhabitant hatt aSi

a very fabulous aspect, and are without duotspel

exaggerated, but there is no reason to reject t

main tact that Sybaris had in the sixth omiarja

attained a degree of wealth and piw r unpuaaai

among Greek cities, and which excited tlx adaaat

of the rest of the Hellenic world. We ait tafcltl

the Sybarites ruled over 25 subject cine*, sad m

bring into the field 300,000 of tiwir owi celi

(Strab. /. c), a statement obviously uitmLbtf.

subject cities were probably for the Mai part <

trian towns in the interior, but we know tail 3

had extended its dominion, across the perused

Tyrrhenian sea, where it had founded tiw t

of Posidonia, La us, and Scidrus. The art ifei

w as said to be not less than 50 stadia a I

fcrence, and the horsemen or knights "hofi^ueil

the religious processions are said to bare awe

to 5000 in number (Athen. xii. p. 519X 1

would prove that these wealthy citiiens «wi

than four times as numerous as at Atbeas- I

dyrides, a citizen of Sybaris, wb-> was «« di

suitors for the daughters of Cleisthene* <t!

said by Herodotus to have surpassed all ether I

in retined luxury. (Herod, ri. 127.) h ^|

asserted that on this occasion be earned eaaa

a train of 1000 slaves, including cvuLa, fakes

&c (Athen. vL p. 273; I>tod. *ih. Fr. 11)

unnecessary to repeat here the tales tliai an aj

variods writers, especially by A • »• -. i«aai

the absurd refinement* of luxury ascribed tslei

barites, and which have rendered their wry

proverbial. (Athcnae. xii. pp. 51b—521; '■

viiL Fr. 18 — 20; Suid. s, r. ii*

They were particularly noted fur the 1

their attire, which was formed of tl« finesi >£■

wool, ajid this gave rite to extrn&ivt DffidM

relations with Miletus, which prudared a 1

friendship between Uie two cities, (TiBMai

Athen. xii. p. 519; Herod, vi. 21.) AiaaaW

of their magnificence we are told that Al*

of Sybaris had dedicated as a votive p.bVij£ ■

temple of the Lacinian Juno a splendid £^uH'

which long afterwards fell into the y »er a T

sins of Syracuse, and was sold by hue ac 1

talents, or more than 24.000/. eterhnf. i,f*a»a||

Arist. iftrofr. 96; Atben. xii. p. 541.)

Notwit)i.<it:inding these details

wealth and luxury of Sybaris, we are 1

without information as to the history ef 1

until shortly before its fall. Herodotus on

refers to the time of Smindyride* (afcouA 5S

B. c.) as the period when Sybaria *a at OS

of its power. At a later period it seeae

been agitated by political

