ISSEDONES. Oil ISSUS.

filial piety by the practice of the Battas of Sumatra.

It may be remarked that a similar story is told of

the Indian Padaei. (Herod, iii. 99.) Fomponius

Mela (ii. 1. § 13) simply copies the statement of

Herodotus, though he alters it so far as to assert

that the Issedones used the skull as a drinking cup.

The name occurs more than once in Pliny (iv. 26,

tl 7, 19); and Ptolemy, who has a town Issedon

in Serica ("Io-o-jj&ov, vi. 16. § 7, viii. 24. § 5), men­

tions in another place (viii. 24. § 3) the Scythian

Issedon. (Comp. Steph. B. «. v.; Amin. Marc xxiii.

6 § 66.

Von Humboldt (Asie Centrale, vol. i. pp. 390—

412) has shown that, if the relief of the countries

between the Don and the Irtysh be compared with

the itinerary traced by Herodotus from the Thys-

sagetae to the Issedones, it will be seen that the

Father of History was acquainted with the existence

of rut plains separating the Ural and Altai, chains

which modem geographers have been in the habit of

uniting by an imaginary range passing through the

steppe of the Kirghiz. This route (Herod, iv. 23,

24) recognises the passage of the Ural from W. to

E., and indicates another chain more to the E. and

more elevated — that of the A Itai. These chains,

it is true, are not designated by any special names,

but Herodotus was not acquainted even in Europe

with the names of the Alps and Bhipnean moun­

tains; and a comparison of the order in which the

peoples are arranged, as well as the relief and de­

scription of the country, shows that much definite

information had been already attained. Advancing

from the Palus Maeotis, which was supposed to be of

far larger dimensions than it really is, in a central

direction towards the NE., the first people found

occupying the plains are the " Black-clothed" Me-

i.axihlak.ni. then the Bidini, Tiiyssaoetae,

the Icecak (who have been falsely identified with

the Turks), and finally, towards the E., a colony

of Scythians, who had separated themselves from

the " Itoyal Scythians" (perhaps to barter gold and

skins). Here the plains end, and the ground be­

comes broken (AiOuinj icol t/m;x<i), rising into

mountain*, at the foot of which are the Argipfaki,

wlto have been identified from their long chins and

hat noses with the Kalmucks or Mongolians by

Xirhuiir, Bockh, and others, to whom reference is

made by Mr. Grote. (ffi»(. of Greece, vol. iii. p. 320.)

This identification has been disputed by Humboldt

(comp. Cotmos, voL i. p. 353 note, 440, vol. ii. p. 141

note, 202, trans.), who refers these tribes to the

FinnUh rtock, assuming as a certain fact, on evi­

dence which it is difficult to make out, that the

Mongolians who lived around Lake Baikal did not

move into Central Asia till the thirteenth century.

Where the data are so few, for the language (the

principle upon which the families of the human race

are marked off) may be said to be unknown, ethno­

graphic analogies become very hazardous, and the

more so in the case of nomad tribes, the same under

such wide differences of time and climate. But if

there be considerable difficulty in making out the

analogy of race, the local bearings of these tribes

may be laid down with tolerable certainty. The

country up to the Argippaei was well known to the

traders; a barrier of impassable mountains blocked

up the way beyond. [Hvpekisorei.] The posi­

tion of the Issedones, according to the indications of

tlw route, must be assigned to the E. of Ichim in

the steppe of the central horde of the Kirghiz, and

tlut of the Ariinaspi on the N. declivity of the

Altai. The communication between the two peoples

for the purpose of carrying on the gold trade was

probably made through the plains at the NW. ex­

tremity of the Altai, where the range juts out in

the form of a huge promontory. [E. B. J.]

ISSICUS SINUS. [Issi's.]

ISSUS Claa6s and 'Iffffoi', Xen. Anab. i. 2. § 24,

and i. 4. § 1), a town of Cilicia, on the gulf of Issus

('Iffo-i/cor ko'atos'). Herodotus calls the gulf of

Issus the gulf of Myriandros (iv. 38), from the town

of Myriandros, which was on it.

The gulf of Issus is now named the gulf of Is-

kenderun or Scanderoon, from the town of Scan-

deroon, formerly Alexandria ad Issum, on the east

side. It is the only large gulf on the southern side

of Asia Minor and on the Syrian coast, and it is an

important place in the systems of the Greek geo­

graphers. This gulf runs in a NE. direction into

the land to the distance of 47 miles, measured nearly

at right angles to a line drawn from the promontory

Megarsus {Cape Karadash), on theCilician coast, to

the Bhosieus Scopulus (Rds-el-Khdnzir, or Uynzyr,

as it has sometimes been written), on the Syrian

coast; for these two capes are respectively the limits

of the gulf on the west and east, and 25 miles from

one another. The width immediately north of the

capes is somewhat less than 25 miles, but it does not

diminish much till we approach the northern extre­

mity of the gulf. It seems certain that the ancient

outlet of the Pyramus was west of and close to Cape

Karadash, where Beaufort supposes it to have been;

and this is consistent witli the old prophecy [Vol. I.

p. 620], that the alluvium of the Pyramus would

some time reach to tho shore of Cyprus; for if the

river had entered the gulf where it does now, 23

miles further east, the prophecy would have been

that it would fill up the gulf of Issus. For tho

earth that the river formerly discharged into the

sea is now sent into the gulf, where it " has pro­

duced a plain of sand along the side of the gulf,

somewhat similar in shape, and equal in size, to that

formed by the Ghiuk Sooyoo [Calycadnus, Vol. I.

p. 483]; but the elbow where (he current that

sets round the gulf quits it, is obtuse and without

any shoals. Perhaps the disappearance of the Ser-

repolis of Ptolemy from the coast, may be accounted

for by the progressive advance of the shore into the

gulf, which has left the ruins of that town some

miles inland" (Beaufort, Caramania, p. 296). Pto­

lemy's Serraepolis (2«(5^ofiroA«), which he culls a

small place (nwfni°), is between Mallus, which is a

little east of Cape Megarsus, and Aegae or Ayuz.

[Aegae.] The next city to Aegae on the coast is

Issus, and this is the remotest city in this part of

Cilicia which Ptolemy mentions. Xenophon also

speaks of it as the last city of Cilicia on the road to

Syria.

The mountains which bound the gulf of Issus

are described in the article Amanus. The bold

Bhosieus Scopulus (5400 feet high), where the

Syrian Amanus terminates on the coast, may bo

distinctly seen by the sailor when he is abreast of

Seleuceia (SetefkeK), at the mouth of the Calycadnus,

a distance of 85 geographical miles (Beaufort). A

small stream ilows into the head of the gulf of

Issus, and a few from the Anmnus enter the east

side, one of which, the Pinarus, is the Deli Tuchai;

and tho other, the Carsus of Xenophon, is the

Slerkts. The Amanus which descends to the

Bhosieus Scopulus, and the other branch of tho

Ainanus which shuts in the gulf of Issus on tho

F 3

