ROMA. 727 IiOMA.

106), wt should infer from these words that the

» alrooid to wu not on the Palatine, but on

v other hill Plutarch, indeed, also alludes to

> »*» tradition (Hon. S), and describes Romulus

biidaie this Roma Quadrata and afterwards en-

;.tf is. We also find some obscure hints to the

s- forpoas in Latin authors. ThusSolinus: "Nam

iffniiat Varro, auctor diligentissimus, Romam

its bnmlus, Marte genitus et Khea Silvia, vel

rnrullj, llarte et Ilia, dictaque eat primum

m jnsdrsta, qnod ad aequilibrium foret posita.

isapit s aha, quae est in area Apollinis, et ad

imlium scalarum Caci habet tenninum, ubi

Jiiiii fait Faustuli" (i. 2). Now wc must not

i the whole of this account to be Varro's, as

far im. (Dt Maris, ifc p. 18, seq., Handb.

OS.) All that belongs to Varro seems to be

u (rota a passage still extant respecting the

•tare of Komulos (£,. L. v. § 144, Miill.), and

words after "Tel ut nonnulli," &c. belong to

r»« inaself. Varro, therefore, is not, as Becker

■v • witness to Rome having been called

* Tbe fullowing passage in Festus, how-  
luuiotlv alludes to another sense of Roma

-iu. namely, as a certain hallowed place  
a envy dry built with Etruscan rites possessed,

» ebich were deposited such things as were

*ml of good omen in founding a city, and  
i m described by Ovid (Fiwri, iv. 821; cf.

Aa.ll): "Quadrata Roma in Palatio ante

«n Apallinu dicitnr, ubi re posits sunt quae

- xoi aiuui* gratia in urbe cundenda adhiberi,  
m.> muniios est initio in speciem quadratam.

'n rjmia* meminit, cum ait: * et quis est

fctas regnare quadratae'" (p. 258, MUI1.).

»v» bee described was, in fact, the mtuidut

'U < mlrmn city. Tlie words of Sol in us, though

r» (want of the exact position of the places

- !» mtiuos, seem to denote too large an area  
nwriU with the description of Festus. In

•v-il-ii of tbe latter, however, Becker {Handb.

i" I sUaces a fragment of the Capitoline plan

■A rat. xvi), with the imperfect inscription

aro (ana Apollinis), and, on the space beside

r*aef a square elevation with steps at two of

let This, he observes, exactly answers to the

Sffi* si Fevtna, being a 14 locus saxo munitus

■a* quadratam;" ami the area Apollinis was

•I' iwUn his temple. That the whole of the

oit, however, was also called quadrata,

sot only from a passage of Dionysius

1 'J«l. where be speaks of the temple of Vesta

«-'-jde of tbe Borne called Quad rati (6Vi T^t

w)srn saXou^frnt 'Pwuijr, (jr^'uiur

• r, itrit icrtv. ii. 65), but also from the

fragment of Knnius. quoted by Festus in

•~ff .last cited. It is without sense as it

*. 414 Mailer's emendation appears certain : —

& 1« le tperat Romae regnare quadratae,"

: • aeaning is inapplicable to a mere mundui,

<** be iv/ernri to the entire city.

*» </aW Palatime ritg.— It was required that  
^ baut, like Rome, with Etruscan rites,

>'juM be at least three gates and three

tamely, to Jupiter, Juno, and Minerva

• *i At. I 42S); and we learn from Pliny

1 'tut the city of Romulus had, in fact, three

■»* galea. In tbe time of Varro, three gates

>-' u burnt besides those of the Servian walls,

A these can be referred with certainty to

the Palatine city. "Praeterea intra mnros video

portas dici. In palatio Mucionis, a mugitu, quod

ea pecus in bucita circum antiquum oppidum ex-

igebant Alteram Romanulam ab Roma dictam,

quae habet gradus in Nova Via ad Volupiae sacellum.

Tertia est Janualis dicta abJano; et ideo ibi positum

Jani signum; et jus institutum a Pompilio, ut

scribit in Annalibus Piso, ut sit aperta semper, nisi

quom bellum sit nusquam." (L.L. v. §§ 164, 165,

Miill.) The gate here called Mucio by Varro is the

same as that called Mugio by other writers, by an

ordinary interchange of c and g, as in Caius for

Gaius, Cermalns for Germalus, &c. Thus Varro him­

self, as cited hy Nonius (xii. 51. p. 531, M.) is made

to call it Mugio. In Paulus Diaconus (p. 144, MUU.)

we find the adjective form Mugionia, erroneously

formed, however, from Mugius, tho name of a man;

and lastly, the form Mugonia in Solinus (i. 24).

Tbe most important passage for determining the

situation of this gate is Livy's description (i. 12) of

the battle between the Sabines and Romans. The

former occupy the Capitoline hill, the latter are ar­

rayed in the valley beneath. The Romans mount

to the attack, but are repulsed and driven back

towards the " old gate" ("adveterem portam") of the

Palatium. Romulus, who is stationed on the high

ground near it (the summit of the Velia), vows to

erect on this spot a temple to Jupiter, under the

name of "Stator," if he arrest the flight of the

Romans. At this time the Sabines had driven back

the Romans to the extremity of what was after­

wards the forum, and their leader Melius Curtius

had even penetrated nearly to the gate of the Pala­

tium. The Romans, however, rally; the Sabines

are repulsed, and the combat is renewed in the

valley between the two hills. Dionysius confirms

the site of the gate by describing it as leading to

the Palatium from the Summa Sacra Via; which

street, as will be seen when we come to describe the

topography of the later city, crossed the ridge of

the Velia at this spot ('PuiuiXos uiy 'OoeWip Aif

(Itphy lipwraro) wapa rats JcoAovittVals MuKttivttrt

wuAair, a! tpipovmy «ls to XlaXdriof <k Tt)s Upas

iSoii, ii. 50). Tbe spot is farther identified by a

graphic passage in Ovid, where the citizen who

serves as Cicerone to his book conducts it from the

fora of the Caesars along the Sacra Via, and, having

crossed the eastern extremity of the Forum Ro-

monum, arrives at the temple of Vesta; then pro­

ceeding onwards up the Sacra Via, first points out

the former residence of Numa, and then, turning to

tie right, indicates the gate of the palace: —

"Psruit et ducens, ' Haec sunt fora Caesaris, inquit;

Haec est a sncris quae via nomen habet

Hie locus est Vestoe, qui Pallada servat et ignem;

Hie fuit antiqui regia parva Numae.'

Inde petens dextram,' Porta est, ait, ista Palatf:

Hie Stator; hoc primum condtta Roma loco

est'" (Trist. iii. 1. 27.)

The site of the temple of Jupiter Stator here given

is confirmed by other writers. Thus it is described

by Livy (i. 41) as near the palace of Tarquinius

Priscus, from tho windows of which, overhanging

•the Nova Via, Tanaquil addressed the people. Now,

as will be shown in its proper place, the Nova Via

ran for some distance parallel with the Sacra Via,

and between it and the Palatine, and, at its highest

point near this gate, was culled "Summa," like the

Sacra Via. Thus Solinus (i. 24): "Tarquinius

Priscus ad Mugoniam Portam supra Suminam

- .

