810 LYXCESTIS. LYDIAS.

the first king of the Mermnad dynasty, who is said to

have murdered Candaules, is an entirely mythical

jiersonagc, at least the story which Herodotus relates

about him is nothing but a popular tradition. He

reigned until B.C. 678, and conquered several of

the adjacent countries, such its a great part of Mysia

and the shores of the Hellespont, and annexed to his

dominions the cities of Colophon and Magnesia,

which had until then been quite independent ot' both

the Maoon Litis and the Lydians. Gygcs was suc­

ceeded by Ardys, who reigned from B.C. 678 to

629, and, continuing the conquests of his predecessor,

made himself master of Prienc. His reign, however,

was disturbed by the invasion of his kingdom by

the Cimmerians and Treres. He was succeeded by

Sadyattcs, of whom nothing is recorded except that

he occupied the throne for a period of twelve years,

from b. c. 629 to 617. His successor Alyattes,

from b. c. 617 to 560, expelled the Cimmerians from

Asia Minor, and conquered most of the Ionian cities.

In the east he extended his dominion as far as the

river Halvs, where he came in contact with Cyaxares

the Mede. His successor Croesus, from u. c. 560

to 546, extended his conquests >o far as to embrace

the whole peninsula of Asia Minor, in which the

Lycians and Cilicians alone succe.-*.fully resisted

hi in. He governed his vast dominions with justice

and moderation, and his yoke was scarcely felt by

the conquered nations. But as both Lydia and

the Persian monarchy were conquering states, and

separated from each other only by the river Halys,

a conflict was unavoidable, and the kingdom of

Lydia was conquered by Cyrus. The detail of these

occurrences is so well known that it does not require

to be repeated here. Lydia became annexed to the

Persian empire. We have already noticed the mea­

sures adopted by Cyrus to deprive the Lydians of

their warlike character; but as their country was

always considered the most valuable portion of Asia

Minor, Darius, in the division of his empire, made

Lydia and some small tribes, apparently of Maeonian

origin, together with the Mysians, the second satrapy,

and demanded from it an annual tribute for the

royal treasury of 500 talents. (Herod, iii. 90.)

Sitrdes now became the ret>idencc of a Persian

satrap, who seems to have ranked higher than the

other governors of provinces. Afterwards Lydia

shared the fate of all the other Asiatic countries,

and more and more lost its nationality, so that in

the time of Strabo (xiii. p. 631) even the language

of the Lydians had entirely disap|ieared, the Greek

having taken its place. After the death of Alex­

ander, Lydia was subject for a time to Antigonus;

then to Achaeus, who set himself up as king at

Sanies, but was afterwards conquered and put to

death by Antiochus. (Polyb. v. 57.) After the

defeat of Antiochus by the Komans, Lydia was an­

nexed by them to the kingdom of Kumenes. (Liv.

xxxviii. 39.) At a still later period it formed part

of the proconsular province of Asia (Plin. v. 30),

and continued to retain its name through all the

vicissitudes of the Byiantine empire, until finally it

tell under the dominion of the Turks. (Corap. Th.

M'-nke, Lydiaefi, DitttrUitin Ethwyrnphieti, Berlin,

1844, 8vo.; Cramer, Asia Minor, vol. i. p. 413,

&c.: Korbiger, Handback der Alien Ueogr. vol. ii.

p. 167, &c; Clinton, Fasti Hell. Appeud. p. 361,

Ac, 3rd edit.; Niebuhr, Lecturt* on Ancient His-

tvry, voL i. p. 88, &c.) [ L. S.J

LYDIAS. [Lidias.]

LY'lill, LU Gil, or LI'GII {Aavytot, Aowoi,

Avyiot), is the general name for a numl«r of i

tribes in the north-east of Germany, all of wl.i-h

belonged to the Suevi. (Strab. tu. p. 290; Plol. n.

11. § 18; Dion Cass, lxvii. 5; Tac. Germ. 43, Amm.

xii. 29, 30.) The ancients s[>eak of them as a Ger­

man nation, but there can 1* little doubt that, frro-

perly speaking, they were Slavonians, who had Urn

subdued by the Suevi, and had gradually ben«ue

united and amalgamated with them. Their name

contains the root lug, which in the old German sig­

nifies a wood or marsh, and still has the same mean­

ing in the Slavonic; it seems, therefore, to be de­

scriptive of the nation dwelling in the plains of the

Vistula and the Oder. The Lygii are tir-t men­

tioned in history as belonging to the emj-irr of

Maroboduus, when they were united with the Mar-

comanni and Hermunduri. When the Quadi russ

against king Vannius, in a. d. 50, the Lygii and

Hermunduri were still united, and opjioscd the in­

fluence of the Komans in Germany. (Tac. Ann, L <•)

In the reign of Domitian, about a. d. 84. they maoe

war on the Quadi, their neighbours, who in vain

sought the protection of the Komans. (Dion Casa.

/. r.) After this time the Lygii disappear frucn

history, and it is possible that they may have be­

come lost among the Goths. The different Lygian

tribes, which are mentioned by Tacitus (Arii, Helve-

cones, Manimi.Hlysii or Helisii,and N aha trail), v*in

to have been united among one another by a comm-*

worship, the principal seat of which was ainonc the

Naharvali. The name of their two common gnda

was Alci, who were worshipped without image*;

and Tacitus observes lliat their mode of worship was

free from all foreign admixture, Ptolemy menti<<u,

as tribes of the Lygii, the Oinanni. Duni, and Buri.

who are either not noticed by Tacitus at all, or arv

classed with other tribes. (Comp. Wilhelrn, (Jrr.

martten, p. 242, &c; Zeuss, die IhuUchen, p. 124;

Latham, on Twit. Germania, p. 158.) [L, S.]

LYGOS. [CoMSTAMlNOI>OM4, p. 257.]

LYNCESTIS (Avymjarii, Strab. vii. p. 326;

Ptol. iii. 13. § 33), the country of the Lyxcektak

(At/7*w<rT/a, Time. ii. 99, iv. 83, 124 ; Strab. vii.

pp. 323, 326), once a small independent kingdom,

and afterwards a province of the Macedonian mo­

narchy. This district was bituated to the S. of thw

Pelagones, and between that people, and the EonUn.

It was watered by the Krigon, and lay in the centra

of the Kgnatian Way, which connected iCmne, l\o-

stantinople, and Jerusalem. The puss which w[«-

rated Lyncestis from Honiara, where Philip madr tu*

unsuccessful stand against the Komans, is dumbed

by Polybius (xviii. 6) :ls tu lis r^r 'Eopoaio*- £*s«w

€o\ai,—and Thucydides (iv. 63) calls a defile in

the same mountains i) Jo€ok)] rijt Airymom, in re­

lating the attempt of Perdieras against l.ynre?ii»,

which ended in a separate negotiation bwwmi La

ally Brasidas and ArrhiUaeu.- king of the Lynrettar.

( 1 hue. iv. 83.) It was by the same pass in taw

following year that Bra&idas effected his vkiltul and

daring retreat from the united forces of Uw Lyn-

cestae and Ulyriana. (Thuc. iv. 124.)

According to Strabo (vii. p. 326), Irrha, Ust

daughter of Arrhabaeos (as he writes the nam*),

was mother of Kurydkr, who married Amyntaa,

father of Philip. Through this connect i<* Lrn-

crstis may have becume annexed to Mamkaua.

The geography of this district is well illastraml by

the operations of the consul Sulptcins againM Philip.

in the campaign of ». c. 2*H). (Liv. axxi. 33.)

from tlie narrative of Livy, which was ttiflnrtrtfiHr

