MALECECA. 255 MALLI.

tiin in the interior of India, which he calls Mona

Maleus (vi. 19. s. 22). It has been supposed that

be may refer to the western Ghats; but as Maleus

is evidently derived from the Sanscrit main, a moun­

tain, this identification cannot, we think, be main­

tained. [V.]

MALECECA. [Litsitakta, p. 220, a.]

MALE'NE (MoAj(m)), a place near Atarneus,

where Histiaeus was defeated by the Persians, is not

mentioned by any ancient author except Herodotus

(vi. 29)- [L. S.]

MALETHUBALON (MoAt8oueaAoi>, Ptol. iv. 2.

§ 15; Nobbe, ad loc. reads MaAeflouGaSop), a moun­

tain nf Mauretania Caesariensis, which is identified

with Jtbtl Nadir in the Sahara. (Shaw's Travels,

f. 56.) [E. B. J.]

MAL EVENTITM. [Bexeyextum.]

M.VLEVM P. (MoXeii txpov, Ptol. vii. 1. § 4), a

pronwntory which forms the southern termination of

Srnstrene (now Cutch). It separata! the gulfs of

Canthi (the Jitmn of Cutch) and Barvgaza {Cam-

*»»X [V.]

MAXIA (MaAfo: Eth. MaAitiSj), a town in

Hispuiia Tarraconensis, near Xumnntia, but of

which nothing more is known. (Appiun, ffijp.

n.)

MALIACTJS SINUS (o MoAiokos koAitoj; Mn-

Xax6t, Thuc. iii. 96; Strab. ix. p. 403; o Mn-

A»w kSAtos, Herod, iv. 33; Polyb. ix. 41: Gulf

nf/itmi), a long gulf of the sea, lying between the

southern coast of Thessaly and the northern coast

of the Locri Epicnemidii, and which derived its

luroe from the country of the Mdlians, situated at

its head. At the entrance of the gulf is the north­

western promontory of Euboea, and the islands Li-

elndes, and into its furthest extremity the river

I-;*n beius flows. The gulf is called Lamiacts

Sisua (i Aauiaxof koAitos) by Pausaiu'as (i. 4.

§ S,viL 15. § 2, x. 1. § 2), from the important

town of Lamia ; and in the same way the gulf is

r.<w called Zituni, which is the modem name of

Lucia. Livy, who usually terms it Maliacus Sinus,

gives it in one place the name of Aenianum Sinus

(xxriiL 5), which is borrowed from Polybius (x.

42) (Comp. Leake, Northern Greece, vol. ii.

p. 4.)

MALIARPHA (MaAid><.o, Ptol. vii. 14), a

pUce of considerable commerce in the territory of

tlf Arvami, on the western coast of the Bay of

■Bmjb/, between the mouths of the Godavari and

the Kistna. It is represented now by either Ma-

fca/w or bv the ruins of M avalipuram, [V.]

MALICHI INSULAE (MoA.xou woi, Ptol.

vi. 7. § 44), two inlands in the Sinus Arabicus, off

the wuth coast of Arabia Felix. One of them is the

tooflrra Sokar.

MALIS(^MoAh-yS;MiiA(r, Herod, vii. 198: Eth.

Ma>(f» j, Mi}Aievs), a small district of Greece, at the

l-ad of the M&liac gulf, surrounded on all sides by

obtains, and open only in the direction of the sea.

The river Spercheius flowed through it. The limits of

Mafia are fixed by the description of Herodotus. It

extended alittle north of the valley of the Spercheius to

the narrowest part of the straits of Thermopylae.

AMierra was the northernmost town of the Mulians

(Herod, vii. 198); the boundary passed between

Luna and Anticyna. Anthela was their southcrn-

awt town (vii. 176, 200). Inland, the Anop:ca,

tke path over Mount Oeta, by which the Persians

tamed the army of Lennidas, in part divided the

temtorv of the Trachinun Malians from that of the

Oetaeans (vii. 217). A more particular description

of the locality is given under TiiKitMorvijiE.

According to Stephanus B. (». v. MaAniis), the

Malians derived their name from a town Malieus,

not mentioned by any other ancient author, said to

have been founded by Mains, the son of Amphic-

tyon. The Malians were reckoned among the Thcs-

salians; but although tributary to the latter, they

were genuine Hellenes, and were from the earliest

times members of the Amphicytonic council. They

were probably Dorians, and were always in close

connection with the acknowledged Doric states.

Hercules, the great Doric hero, is represented as the

friend of Ceyx of Trachis, and Mount Oeta was the

scene of the hero's death. Diodorns (xii. 59) even

speaks of Trachis as the mother-town of Lacedaemon.

When the Trachiuians were hard pressed by their

Oetaean neighbours, about the commencement of the

Pcloponnesian War, they applied for assistance to the

Spartans, who founded in consequence the colony of

Heraclcia near Trachis. (Thuc iii. 92.)

Scylax (p. 24), who is followed by Diodorus

(xviii. 11), distinguishes between the MnAieis and

MaAim, the former extending along the northern

coast of the Maliac gulf from Lamia to Echinus;

but, as no other writer mentions these towns as be­

longing to the Lamians, we ought probably to read

A,-n.:(/\, as K. 0. MUller observes. Thucydidcs

mentions three divisions (fx/prj) of the Malians, called

Paralii (riaodAioi), Priests ('Ifprjj), and Trachinii

(Tpax'x'oi)' Who the Priests were is a matter only

of conjecture: Grote supposes that they may have

been possessors of the sacred spot on which the

Amphictyonic meetings were held; while Leake

imagines that they were the inhabitants of the

Sacred City (ifobv oVtu), to which, according to

Callimachus (Hymn, in Del. 287), the Hyper­

borean offerings were sent from Dodona on their

way to Delus, and that this Sacred City was the

city Oeta mentioned by Stephanus B. The names

of the Paralii and Trachinii sufficiently indicate

their position. The Malians admitted every man to

a share in the government, who either had served

or was serving as a Hoplite (Ari.stot. Polit. iv. 10.

§ 10). In war they were chiefly famous as slingera

and darters. (Thuc. iv. 100.)

Trachis was the principal town of the Malians.

There were also Anticyra and Anthela on the

coast; and others, of which the names only are pre­

served, such as CoLACEIA (Theopoin. ap. Athen.

vi. p. 254, f.), Aegoseia (Lycophr. 903; Steph. B.

*. t?.), and luus (Schol. in Lycophr. I. c.; Steph. U.  
s. v.). (Miillcr, Dorians, vol. i. p. 50; Grote,

Greece, vol. ii. p. 378; Leake, Northern Greece,

vol. ii. p. 20.)

MALLAEA, MALLOEA, or MALOEA, a town

of southern Perrhaebia in Thessaly, perhaps repre­

sented in name by Mologhuita, which Leako con­

jectures to be a corruption of Malloea, with the

addition of Angusta. But as there are no remains

of antiquity at Afoldghvsta, Leake supposes Malloea

to have occupied a height on the opposite side of

the river, where are some vestiges of ancient walls.

(Liv. xxxi. 41, xxxvi. 10, 13, xxxix. 25; Leake,

Northern Greece, vol. iv. p. 311.)

MALLI (MiAAoi, Arrian, Anab. vi. 7, 8, 14),

the inhabitants of the south part of the district

now known by the name of the Panjdb. There was

probably in ancient times a city from which they

derived their name, though the name of the town is

not given by ancient authors. (Arrian, L c.; Strab.

