VIA APPIA. VIA APPIA. 1291

on be general plan of then edifices. [Roma, p.

844.]

Proceeding onwards from the tomb of Caecilia

Metella, the road ia bordered throughout by numerous

sepulchres, the most remarkable of which is the tomb

of Servilius Quartus, on the left, abont 3} miles from

Rome. The remarkable preservation of the ancient

mad in this part of its coarse, shows the accuracy of

I he description above cited from Procopius; but it is

remarkable that this, the greatest and most frequented

highway of the Roman empire, was only just wide

enough to admit of the passage of two carriages

abreast, being only 15 feet broad between the raised

crrpidina which bordered it. After passing a num­

ber of obscure tombs on both sides of the way, there

occurs, just beyond the fifth mile from Rome, a re­

markable enclosure, of quadrangular form, surrounded

by a low wall of Alban stone. This has frequently

been supposed to be the Campos Sacer Horatiorum,

alluded to by Martial (iii. 47) as existing on the

A pt»ian Way, and which preserved the memory of the

celebrated combat between the Horatii and Curiiilli.

This waa believed to hare been fought just about 5

miles from Rome (Liv. i. 23), which would accord

well with the position of the enclosure in question;

hoi it is maintained by modern antiquaries that this,

which was certainly of a sacred character, more pro­

bably served the purposes of an Ustrinum, or place

where the bodies of the dead were burned, previously

to their being deposited in the numerous sepulchres

that lined both sides of the Appian Way. These

still form a continuous cemetery fur above two miles

farther. The most massive of them all, which must,

when entire, have greatly exceeded even that of

Caecilia Metella in magnitude, and from its circular

form is known as the Catal RoUmdo, occurs near

the, 6th mile from Rome, on the left of the Via Ap­

pia. From a fragment of an inscription found here,

it ia probable that this is the tomb of Messala Cor-

vmua, the friend of Augustus and patron of Tibullus,

soxl aa the very monument, the massive solidity of

wliich is more than once referred to by Martial

( " Meaaalae saxa," viii. 3. 5; "marmora Messalae,"

x. 2. 9). Somewhat nearer Rome, on the same side

of the road, are extensive ruins of a different descrip­

tion, which are ascertained to be those of a villa of

the Quint ilii. two brothers celebrated for their wealth,

who were put to death by Commodus (Dion Cass.

Ixxii. 5), after which the villa in question probably

became an imperial residence.

Some remains of a small temple, just 8 miles

from Rome, have been supposed to be those of a

temple of Hercules, consecrated or restored by Do-

roitian at that distance from the city (Martial, iii.

47. 4, U. 65. 4, 102. 12); but though the site of

the temple in question is clearly indicated, it ap­

pears that the existing remains belong to an edifice

«f earlier date. Kxactly 9 miles from Rome are the

ruins of a villa of imperial date, within which is a

large circular monument of brick, supposed with

good reason to be the tomb of Gallicnus, in which

the emperor Flavins Severus also was buried.

(Vies. KpiL lx.) Close to this spot must have been

the station Ad Nonnm mentioned in the Jerusalem

Itinerary (/. c). The road is still bordered on both

sides by tombs; but none of these are of any special

interest. At the Oittriu dell* Fratocchie (between

II and 12 miles from Rome) the ancient Via is

joined by the modern road to Albann: it here com­

mences the ascent of the Alban Hills, which con­

tinues (though at first very gradually) for above 3

J miles. A little farther on are the remains of Bo-

rillae; the principal ruirs of which lie a short dis­

tance to the right of the road. [Bovii.i.ae.]

The Tabula marks that place as a station on

the Via Appia, but erroneously places it 10 miles

from Rome, while the real distance is 12 miles.

Thence the road (still retaining its straight line) as­

cended the hill to *Albano, nearly on the site of the

Ai.nAM M of Domitian, which, as we lcam from

Martial, was just 14 miles front Rome. (Martial,

ix. 65. 4, 102. 12.) The remains of the imperial

villa border the road on the left for some distance

before reaching the modem town. Two miles fsr-

ther was Aricia, which is correctly placed by both the

Itineraries 16 miles from Rome. The station was

probably below the town, outside of the walls, as the

Via Appia here deviates from the straight line which

it has pursued so long, and descends into the hollow

below the city by a steep slope known as the Clivus

Aricinus. A little farther on it is carried over the

lowest part of the valley by a causeway or substruc­

tion of massive masonry, one of the most remark­

able works of the kind now extant [Aricia.]

The remainder of the road "ill not require to bo

described in such detail. From Aricia it was con­

tinued, with a slight deviation from the direct line,

avoiding the hills of Genzano and those which bound

the Late o/yami, on the left, and leaving Ls-

nuvium at some distance on the right, till il descended

again into the plain beyond the Alban Hills and reached

the station of Tree Tabemae. An intermediate sta­

tion, Sub Lanuvio, indicated only in the Tabula, mnst

have been situated where a branch road struck off

to the city of Lanuvium. The position of Tres

Tabemae has been much disputed, but without any

good reason. That of Forum Appii, the next stage,

u clearly established [Forum Arm], and the

43rd milestone of the ancient road still exists on the

spot; thus showing that the distances given in the

Antonine Itinerary are perfectly correct. This being

established, it is clear that Tres Tabemae is to be

placed at a spot 10 miles nearer Rome, and about 3

miles beyond the modem Ciiterna, where there are

still ruins of ancient buildings, near a mediaeval

tower called the Torre dAnnibale. The ancient

pavement is still visible in many places between

Aricia and Tres Tabemae, and no doubt can exist

as to the course of the road. This was indeed

carried in a perfectly straight line from the point

where it descended into the plain, through the Pon­

tine Marshes to within a few miles of Terracing.

The position of the station Ad Sponsas, mentioned in

the Jerusalem Itinerary, cannot be determined, as the

distances there given are incorrect. We should

perhaps read xii. for rii. as the distance from

Forum Appii, in which case it must be placed

2 miles nearer Rome than Tres Tabemae. Between

the latter station and Forum Appii was Tiurox-

tium, st which commenced the canal navigation

called Decennovium from its being 19 miles in

length. The site of this is clearly marked by a

tower still called Torre di TVs Ponti, and the

19 miles measured thence along the canal would

terminate at a point 3 miles from Terracma, where

travellers qnitted the canal for that city. An in­

scription records the paring of this part of the

road by Trajan. The solitary posthouse of Meta

* It was probably this long ascent that was  
known as the C'uvis Vibbii, mentioned by Persius

(vi. 55).

