VIA APPIA. 12S9 VIA APPIA.

starting from Brundusium, meet at Beneventum.

Thence to Rome the road is called the Appian,

passing through Caudium. Calatia, Capua, and

Casilinnm, to Sinnessa. The whole distance from

liome to Brundusium is 360 miles. There is yet a

third road, from Rhegium, through the Bruttiona and

Lacaniana,and the lands of the Samnites toCampania,

where it joins the Appian; this pasties through the

A pcnnine mountains, and is three or four days'

journey longer than that from Brundusium." (Strab.

t. p. 283.) It is not improbable that the first of

these branches, which Strabo distinctly distinguishes

from the true Appian Way, is the Via Numicia or

Minncia (the reading is uncertain), mentioned by

Horace as the alternative way by which it was cus­

tomary to proceed to Brundusium. (Hor. Ep. i.

18. 20.) But Strabo gives ns no information as to

how it proceeded from Uerdonia, in the plains of

Apulia, through the mountains to Beneventum. It

is, however, probable that it followed nearly the

same line as the high road afterwards constructed by

Trajan, through Accae and Eqnus Tuticus. This is

indeed one of the principal natural passes through

this partnf the Apennines, and is still followed, with

httk- deviation, by the modem highroad from Naples

to Rrmetifi and Toronto. But it is worthy of re­

mark, that Horace and his companions in their

journey to Brundusium, of which he has left us

t he poetical itinerary (SaL i. 5), appear not to have

followed this coarse, but to have taken a somewhat

more direct route through Trivicum, and a small

town not named (" oppidulum quod versu dicere non

est*"), to Canusium. This route, which does not

agree with either of those mentioned by Strabo, or

with those given in the Itineraries, was probably dis­

used after that constructed by Trajan, through

E<]uaa Tuticus and Aecae, had become the frequented

line. It was to that emperor that the Appian Way

n> indebted for many improvements. He restored,

if he was not the first to construct, the highroad

through tho Pontine Marshes from Forum Appii to

Tarracina (Dion Cass, lxviii. 15; Hoare, Clou. Tour,

vol. i. p. 28) ; and he at the same time constructed,

at hia own expense, a new line of highroad from Bene­

ventum to Brundusium (Gruter, Inter, p. 151. 2),

which is undoubtedly the Via Trajana celebrated by

coins. (KckJiol, vol. iv. p. 421.) It is probable (as

already pointed out) that he did no more than render

practicable for carriages a line of route previously

•'listing, but accessible only to mules; and that

the Via Trajana coincided nearly with tho road

described by Strabo. But from the time that this

r<iad was laid open to general traffic, the proper Via

Appia through Venusia to Tarentum, which tra­

versal a wild and thinly-peopled country, seems

to have fallen much into disuse. It is, however, still

given in the Antonine Itinerary (p. 120) though not

as the main line of the Appian Way. The latter ap­

pellation seems indeed to have been somewhat vaguely

u*ed under the Empire, and the same Itinerary

be»tnws the name on the line, already indicated by

Strabo (L £.), that proceeded S. through Lucania and

llrutlium to Ithegium, on the .Sicilian Strait, a route

which never went near Beneventum or Brundusium

at all.

The Appian Way long survived the fall of the

Wentem Kmpire. That portion of it which passed

through the Pontine Marshes, which was always

the most liable to suffer from neglect, was re­

stored liy Theodoric (Gruter. Inter, p. 152. 8); and

rrocopius, who travelled over it 40 years later,

speaks with admiration of the solidity and perfection

of its construction. "The Appian Way (says he)

extends from Rome to Capua, a journey of five days

for an active traveller. Its width is such as to

admit of the passage of two waggons in contrary

directions. The road itself is worthy of the highest

admiration, for the stone of which it is composed, a

kind of mill-stone, and by nature very hard, was

brought by Appius from some distant region, since

none such is found in this part of the country. He

then, after having smoothed and levelled the stones,

and cut them into angular forms, fitted them

closely together, without inserting either bronie

or any other substance. But they are so accu­

rately fitted and joined together, as to present the

appearance of one compact mass naturally united,

and not composed of many parts. And notwith­

standing the long period of time that has elapsed,

during which they have been worn by the continual

passage of so many carriages and beasts of burden,

they have neither been at all displaced from their

original position, nor have any of them been worn

down, or even lost their polish." (Procop. B. G. i.

14.) The above description conveys an accurate

impression of the appearance which the Appian Way

must have presented in its most perfect state. The

extraordinary care and accuracy with which the

blocks that composed the pavement of the Roman

roads were fitted together, when first laid down, is

well seen in the so-called Via Triumphalis, which led

to the Temple of Jupiter, on Mons Albanus. [Al>-

bani'8 Mons.] But it is evident from many other

examples, that they became much worn down with

time; and the pavement seen by Procopius had

doubtless been frequently restored. He is also mis­

taken in supposing that the hard basaltic lava (silcx)

with which it was paved, had to be brought from a

distance: it is found in the immediate neighbourhood,

and, in fact, the Appian Way itself, from the Capo

d> Boce to the foot of the A]ban Hills, runs along a

bank or ridge composed of this lava. Procopius also

falls into the common mistake of supposing that the

road was originally constructed hy Appius Claudius

such as he beheld it. But during the long interval

it had been the object of perpetual care and restora­

tion; and it is very doubtful how far any of the great

works along its line, which excited the admiration of

the Romans in later ages, were due to its original

author. Caius Gracchus in particular had bestowed

great pains u]»n the improvement of the Roman

roads; and there is much reason to believe that it

was in his time that they first assumed the finished

appearance which they ever afterwards bore. (Plut.

C. Gracch. 7.) Caesar also, when a young man, waa

appointed "Curator Viae Appiae," which had be­

come a regular office, and laid out large sums of

money upon its improvement. (Plut. Caet. 5.)

The care bestowed on it hy successive emperors, and

especially by Trajan, is attested by numerous inscrip­

tions.

It is very doubtful, indeed, whether the original

Via Appia, as constructed by the censor Appius, was

carried through the Pontine Marshes at all. No

mention is found of his draining those marshes,

without which such a work would have been im­

possible; and it ia much more probable that the rand

was originally carried along the hills by Cora, Norba,

and Setia, by the same line which waa again in use in

the last century, before the Pontine Marshes had been

drained for the last time by Pius VI, This conjecture

is i-until tucd by the circumstance that Lucilius, in

