338 MESSAPIA. MESSENE.

form ME22ANION or ME22ANI.1N. 4. Coins

struck by the Mamertines, with the name of MA-

MEPTlNflN. These are very numerous, but in

copper only. (Millingen, Tram, of Roy. Soc. of Lit.

Tol. i. pt ii. pp. 33—98; Eckhel, vol. i. pp. 219—

224.) [E. H. B.]

MESSA'PIA (Mtaaaria), was the name com­

monly given by the Greeks to the peninsula forming

the SE. extremity of Italy, called by the Romans

Calabria. But the usage of the term was very

fluctuating; Iapygia and Messapia being used some­

times as synonymous, sometimes the latter con­

sidered as a part only of the former more general

designation. (Pol. iii. 88; Strab. vL pp. 277,282.)

[This question is more fully discussed under Cai.a-

iihia. Vol. I. p. 472.] The same uncertainty pre­

vails, though to a less degree, in the use of the

name of the people, the Mkssaimi (M>o-<rctiuoi), who

are described by Herodotus (vii. 170) as a tribe of

the Iapygians, and appear to be certainly identical

with the Calabri of the Romans, though we have no

explanation of the origin of two such different ap­

pellations. The ethnical affinities of the Mcssapuuis

have already been discussed, as well as their history

related, under the article Calabria.

Italian topographers in general admit the exist­

ence of a (ova of the name of Messapia, the site of

which is supposed to be marked by the village now

called iletagne, between Oria and Rrindiii; but

the passage of Pliny, in which alone the name is

found, appears to be corrupt; and we should proba­

bly read, with Cluverius and Mommsen, '* Varia

(Uria) cui cognomen ad discrimen Apulae Mes­

sapia." (Plin. iii. 11. a. 16. § 100; Cluver, Ital.

p. 1248; Mommsen, Di» Cnter. Ital. hiaiektt, p.

61.) [E. H. B.]

MESSA'PIUM, mountain of Boeolia. [Vol. I.

p. 414, a.1

MESSE'IS (M«r<ri)tr). ]. A fountain of Phene

in Thessaly. [Pherak.]

2. A fountain of Therapnc in Laconia. (Pans. iii.

20. § 1.)

MESSE'KrJ (Meo-ffr/rn: Elk. and Adj. Meff-

o-r/i'ior: Adj. Mttro^fuuc^r), the later capital of

Messenia, built under the direction of Epnininundas

in B.C. 369. (Diod. xv. 66; I'aus. iv. 27.) The

name of Messene had been applied in ancient times

to the country inhabited by the Messenians; but

there was no city of this name till the one founded

by Epaminondas. The Thebans and their allies

assisted the Messenians in building it; and the best

architects and masons were invited from all Greece

to lay out the city with regularity, and to arrange

and construct properly the temples and other public

buildings. Epaminondas also took esjiocial pains

with the fortifications, which were regarded by

Pausanias as the most perfect in Greece. The walls,

as well as the towers and bulwarks, were built en­

tirely of stono; and the excellence and solidity of

the masonry are still apparent in the existing

remains. (Paus. iv. 31. § 5.) The foundation of

the city wa» attended with great pomp and the

celebration of solemn sacrifices. First, sacrifices

were offered by Epaminondas, who was recognised

as Oekist or Founder, to Dionysus and Apollo

Ismenius,—by the Argives to the Argive Hera and

Zeus Kemeius,— by the Messenians to Zeus ltho-

matas and the Dioscuri. Next, prayer was offered

to the ancient Heroes and Heroines of the Measenian

nation, especially to the warrior ArUtomenee, that

they would com back and take up their abode in

I the new city. After this, the ground was marked

out and the building begun, under the sound of Argm

and Boeotian flutes, playing the strains of Pronrsr.as

and Sacadas. (Pans. iv. 28. § 6; Grote's Gram,

vol. ix. p. 309.) The history of this town is related

under Messenia, so that it is only necessary is lim

place to give an account of its topography.

Messene is situated upon a rugged mountain,

which rises between the two great Morrtiian pliiss,

and which thus commands the whole country. This

mountain, about half-way up, divides into two sum­

mits, of which the northern was called Ithume u>4

the southern Eva. The sharp ridge connecting

them is about half a mile in length. Ml Itlxxut

is one of the most striking objects in all I'elopra-

nesus. It rises to the height of 2631 feet, or more

than 700 feet higher than the Acrocorintuus; but it

looks much loftier than it really is, in consequence

of its precipitous sides and isolated position.

Upon this summit the Acropolis of Meurrje was

built; but the city itself was situated in a hullo*

somewhat in the form of a shell, extending on the

west side of the sharp ridge which cunnerta It borne

and Eva. The city was connected by a con'iuu>ios

wall with its acropolis. There are considerable

remains of the ancient city, and the walls may still

be traced in the greater port of their extent. They

are most perfect on the northern side, with the

Arcadian or Megalopolitan gate in the centre. They

may be followed up to the summit of ItJune, nasi

then along the ridge connecting Itbome and

Eva ; but here towards the south-east traces of

them are sometimes lost. In this part, however,

the foundations of the eastern or Laconian gate,

as it has been called, are clearly seen. The sum­

mit of Mt. Eva was evidently not included wjthia

the city walls. The direction of the southrra

wall is most uncertain. From the eastern gate to

the ruins, which are supposed to be those of lha

southern gate, and near which the present road raw

to the southern Messenian plain, no liue of walls cast

be traced ; but on the western side the walls may

again be clearly followed. The circumference of tha

walls is about 47 stadia, or nearly 6 English mils*;

but it includes a large space altogether unfit fur lha

site of buildings; and the great extent was duubt>«s

intended to receive a port of the surrounding p"p«-

lation in time of war.

1'he space included within the city-walls now nm»-

sists of corn-fields and pastures amidst woods of wikl

olive and oak. Nearly in the centre of lb* ancirox

town is the modern village of Marromati; and near

the southern gate, at the foot of Mount Era, are two

poor villages, named Simula. On the eastern »lopa

of Mount Eva is the monastery of Yurkano, en-bomd

in cypress and orange groves, and one of the must

TI.AB or ARCADIAN OR sfECAl-Tirot ITAN OAT

