100 ITIUS PORTUS. ITIUS POKTUS.

sage in the fifth book (v.8), in which Caesar describes |

his second eoyage, show* very clearly when' he landed.

He sailed from Portus Itius, on his second expedition,

at sunset, with a wind about SW. by \V.; about mid­

night .the wind failed him, he could not keep his

course, and, being carried too far by the tide, at day­

break, when he locked about him, he saw Iiritannia

on his left hand behind him. Taking advantage of

the change of the tide, he usod his oars to reach

"that part of the island where he had found in the

previous summer that there was the best landing."

He had been carried a few miles past the Cantium

Promontorium, or Xorth Foreland but not out of

sight, and lie could easily find his way to the beach

at Ileal. There arc many arguments to show that

Ileal was Caesar's landing-place, as it was for the

Konians under the empire, who built near it the strong

place of Kutupiae (RU-hborouyh), on the Stout', near

Satulicich.

D'Anville makes out Caesar's distance of 30 SI. P.

thus. He reckons 22 or 24 If.PM at most, from

Porttu ltius to the English cliffs, and 8 miles

from his anchorage under the cliffs to his landing-

place make up 30. Perhaps Caesar means to

estimate the whole distance that he sailed to his land­

ing place; and if this is so, his estimate of " about

30 Itoman miles" is not far from the truth, and quite

as near as we can expect. Strabo (p. 199) makes

the distance 320 stadia, or only 300, according to a

note of Kustathius on Dionysius Periegctes (v. 56f>),

who either found 300 in his copy of Strabo, or made

a mistake about the number; for he derived his in­

formation about Caesar's passage only from Strabo.

It may be observed here that Strabo mentions two

expeditions of Caesar, and only one port of embark­

ation, the Itius. He understood Caesar in the same

way as all people will do who can draw a conclusion

from premises. But even 300 stadia is too great a

distance from Wissnvt to the British coast, if we

reckon 8 stadia to the ltoman mile; but there U

good reason, as D'Anville says, for making 10 stadia

to the mile here Pliny gives the distance from

Boulogne to Britannia, that is, we must assume, to

tho usual landing place, Itutupiac, at 50 M.P., which

is too much; but it seems to be some evidence that

he could not suppose ISouixjue to be Caesar's place of

embarkation.

Caesar mentions another port r.ear Itius. He calls

it the Ulterior Portus (iv. 22, 23, 28). or Superior,

and it was 8 SI.P. from Itius. We might assume

from the term Ulterior, which has reference to Itius,

that this port was further to the north and east than

Itius; and this is proved by what he says of the

wind. For the wind which carried him to Britannia

on his first cx|icdition, hi* direct course being nearly

north, prevented the ships at the Ulterior Portus from

coming to the place where Caesar embarked (iv. 23).

The Ulterior, or Superior, Portus is between Wissant

and Calais, and may be Sanyatte. Calais is too far

off. When Caesar was returning from his first expe­

dition (iv. 36, 37) two transport ships could not

make the same portus—tho Itius and the Ulterior or

Superior—that the rat of the ships ilid, but were

carried a little lower down (paulo infra), that is,

further south, which we know to be Caesar's mean­

ing by comparing this with another passage (iv.

38). Caesar does not say that these two ships

landed at a "portus," as Ukert supposes (Colli,*,

p. 554). who makes a port unknown to Caesar, and

gives it the name " Inferior."

Ill Cangr, Camden, and others, correctly took

rortns Itius to bo Wiisaml. Besides the

bianco of name, Du Cange and Gibson hare shows.

MAP ILLI'STUATIMJ TIIK POSITION OF roKTW

ITU'S.

A. a. Strait of Doerr. or Pal de Calais, t. 1

Intis (H'uiaut). 2. Ilium Pr. (Cap Oriimez). 3. <>*.

•orlacum. HlttTwnrdu lloiiniifa ( ttvvlariu). 4. Calsk.

S. Sa-ntitatc. r„ Porlm Dubrli (Dcrrr). 7. HntopUr

(ltirlilx,rougli). K. Kl»er Sluur. 9 ('uuium Vx. ( \ «I*

r'urcland). 10. Itcgulbiuui 4 litemter).

that of two middle age Latin writers who mention

the passage of Alfred, brother of St. Edward, into

England, one calls rVimasU Portus Iccius, and the

other Portus Wisanti. D'Anville conjectures that

Wissant means "white sand," and accordingly the

promontory Itium would be the White, a very good

name for it. But the word '* white," and its variant

forms, is Teutonic, and not a Celtic word, ao far as uSe

writer knows; and the word " Itius" existed in Cae­

sar's time on the coast of the Slorini, a Celtic people,

where we do not expect to see a Teutonic name.

Wissant uas known to the Unmans, for there are

traces of a road from it to Tarucnna (7'Auiki—')■

It is no port now, and never was a port in the moilern

sense, but it was Terjr well suited for Caesar to drsw

his ships up on the beach, as he did when he landed

in England ; for Wiwant is a wide, sheltered, sandy

l«av. Kroissart speaks of H'i'.win4 as a large town

in'l34fi.

A great deal has been written about Caesar's tor-

ages. The first and the best attempt to explain it.

though it is not free from some mistakes, is Dr. Hal-

ley's, of which an exposition Is given in the Classical

.Museum, No. xiii., by (1 Long. D'Anville, with his

usual judgment, saw that Itius must be Wissamt, bat

he supposed that Caesar landed at Jlytke, snath tf

iMirer. Walckenaer (Ctog. <ks liaulrs. vol. L pp-**S,

452) has some remarks on ltius. which lie take* t>

be Wissant; and there are remarks on Portus Itius

in the Gentleman's Slagaxine for September. 18441, ly

11. L. Long. Esq. Perhaps the latest examinatisn >t

the matter is in G. Long's edition of Caesar. .>■«»«•

Vamir't British Exjxditions, pp. 248—257. What

the later German gcogiajihers and critic*, Ukrit aftl

others, have said oi these vnvagea is of no value at

all. [O. I-J

