rnLTGOSTUM. PHOCIS. 603

rairCOMUM {*\*yinm), a city of PhocU,

a* nkwiwn site, dntroyed at t be end of the PhocUn

(Put. i 3. § 2; Steph. B. f. ».) Pliny

au I Phr/row. «"d emneously represents it as a

ki t Bartia (ir. 7. a. IS).

F80CAEA (♦warn: £«*. *wraii<) or +»-

•il Ihf DM northern of the Ionian cities in

tie M<*r, wis situated on a peninsula, between

j Sn Crraatui and the Sims Hermeeus, and

l i tatiwt of MO stadia from Smyrna. (Strab.

j. US; Pirn. v. 31; Pomp. Mela, i. 17.) It

i> aj u, hut been founded by emigrants from

safer the guidance of two Athenian chiefs,

liwi aai Duma. (Strab. / c. p. 633 ; Paus.

a X ( 5.) The first settlers did not conquer the

t! n. tai mired it a> a gift from the Cumaeans.

t» txn, however, did not become a member of

'!-tj» moMency until it placed princes of the

weL'aba* st the head of the government. It had

'■■ i-roeit harbour*. Nanstathimis and Lampter,

1 ham the entrance into them was situated the

'■ okas of Beocheiou, which was adorned with

•pa mi splendid buildings (Lie. xxxviii. 22);

i >«t!>e to this favourable position, and the enter-

as: 'frit of its inhabitants, the town soon rose I

r*ii fliti&eace smong the maritime cities of the

"K'jrld. Herodotus (i. 163, &C.) states that

1 Tmnm were the first Greeks who undertook

en r*vr3. and made tliemselves acquainted

> a* outs of the Adriatic, and the Tyrrhenian

I uvnes aeai; and that they were the first to

■ U-vtta Arganthonias, king of the Tartes-

1 Saras* ao attached to them as to try to pre-

I "fx them to quit Ionia and settle in his own

ham; hat aa their declining this, he gave them

wj. un of money to fortify their own city

aw ths Persians. The Phocaeane accordingly

*»W their city by a wall of several stadia in  
ratrrsoi, and of a very solid construction. In

*» sf Cyrus, Phocaea was one of the first towns  
I *v he»«yed by the army of Cyrus, under the

•awl sf liarpagus. When called npon to sur-

'!* Phrcwans, conscious of being unable to

* thf esenjy much longer, asked and obtained a  
»•) are day, pretending that they wotdd con-

'ha prspaal. But in the interval they etn­

as wife tbyr wires and children and their most

■h raVrt*. and sailed to Chios. There they

fcnd by purchase to obtain possession of the

■ a? nlaoia called Oenuasae, and belonging to

■■"»; iot their request being refused, they

ha i» sail to Corsica, where twenty years before

► wooreaon they had planted the colony of

k B-f*v setting out they landed at Pho-

I ■< pat the Persian garrison to the sword,

'ties boond themselres by a solemn oath to

•a their satire country; nevertheless, however,

•af 4 their aurrber, unable to overcome their

W. "Taraed behind. The rest proceeded to

as.«aer» they were kindly received by their

Sna they became formidable to the

jharkf satioas by their piracy and depre-

a> that the Tyrrhenian* and Carthaginians

■ " fcsrm their power. The Phocaeans suc-

"-jH a defeating their enemies, but their

*» b treat that they despaired of being able  
■wataatantest, and proceeded to Rhegium, in

■»■* «* Italy. Sot long after their arrival there,

*~" odsord to settle at Klaea or Velia, in  
aav vara, in tlie course of time, became a

tows. Among the numerous colonies of

the Phocaeans the most important was Mass ilia or

Marseilles, in the south of France, and the most

western Maenaca, in Hispania Baetica. After the

emigration of half the population, Phocaea continued

to exist under the Persian dominion; but was greatly

reduced in its commerce and prosperity, as we may

infer from the fact that it furnished only three ships

to the fleet of the revolted Ionians at the battle of

Lade; but their commander was nevertheless the

ablest man among the Ionians. (Herod, vi. 11—

17.) After these events Phocaea is tittle mentioned

(Thucyd. i. 13, viii. 31; Horn. Hymn, i. 35; Scy-

lax, p. 37); but some centuries later, in the war of

the Romans against Antiochns, when Phocaea was

besieged by a Roman fleet, Livy (xxxvii. 31) de­

scribes the place as follows:—" The town is situ­

ated in the inmost recess of a bay; its shape is ob­

long, and its walls enclose a space of 2500 paces;

they afterwards unite so as to form a narrower

wedge: this they themselves call Lampter, aud it is

about 1200 paces in breadth. A tongue of land

running out into the sea a distance of 1000 paces,

divides the bay nearly into two equal parts, and

forms on each side of the narrow i-thnius a very safe

port. The one towards the sooth was called Nau-

stathmus, from its being able to contain a great

number of ships, the other was situated close to the

Lampter.'' On that occasion the town was taken by

the Romans, after a desperate resistance, and given

up to plunder by the praetor Aetuilius, though the

inhabitants had voluntarily opened their gates. The

town with its territory, however, was restored to the

inhabitants by Aemilius. (Liv. I e. 32; Polyb.

xxii. 27, comp. v. 77, ixi. 4; Liv. xxxviii. 39.)

At a still later period the Phocaeans offended the

Romans by supporting the cause of Aristonicus, the

claimant of the throne of Pergamum; and they would

have been severely punished had not the inhabitants

of Massilia interceded in their behalf. (Justin,

xxxvii. 1, xliii. 3; Strab. p. 646.) The existence

of Phocaea can be traced throughout the imperial

period from coins, which extend down to the time of

the Philips, and even through the period of the

Lower Empire. (HierocL p. 661.) From Michael

Ducas {Ann. p. 89) we learn that a new town was

built not far from the ancient city by some Genoese,

in a. D. 1421. This latter, situated on the isth­

mus mentioned by Livy, not far from the ruins if

the ancient city, is the place now called Foggia

Nova: the ruins bear the name of Palaeo Foggia.

(Chandler, TVaceij, p. 96; Arundell, Seven Churches.

p. 294; Hamilton, Researches, ii. p. 4; Kckhel,

Doctr. Num. ii. p. 53, &e.; Rasche, Lex. Ret A'um.

iii. 2, p. 1225, Ate.; Sestini, p. 83; Thisquen, Pho-

caira, Bonn, 1842, 8vo.)

Another town of the same name in the peninsula

of Mount Mycale, in Caria, is mentioned by Ste-

phanus B. (». t>.> [L. S.]

COn> OF PHOCAEA.

PHOCEAE. [LBomnm, p. 159, b.]

PHO'CICUM. [Phocis.]

PHOCIS (rj ♦wall: £(*.♦»*€*», Phocensia), a

small country in central Greece, bounded on the N.

by Doris, on the NE and E. by the Locri Kpicnemidii

and Opontii, on the SE. by Boeotia, on the W. by ilia

