124 LAPATHUS. LAPPA.

(Diam/i. xiii. 447), owed its name to tlio legendary

Lajiathus, a follower of Dionysus. Strabo (/. c.)

says that it received a Syrian colony, headed by

Praxander. He add*, that it was situated opposite

to the town of Nagidus, in Cilicia, and possessed a

harbour and docks. It was situated in the N. of the

island, on a river of the same name, with a district

called Lai-ktiiia (Aanjfli'a, l'lol. v. 14. § 5). In

the war between Ptolemy and Antigonus, Lnpathus,

with its king Praxippus, sided with the latter, (Diod.

xix. 59.) The name of this place was synonymous

with stupidity. (SuiJ. >. v. Aaira&oi.) Pococke

(Trar. in tlie F.ast, vol. ii. pt. 1. p. 223) saw at

Lapilho several walls that were cut out of the rock,

and one entire room, over the sea: there were also

remains of some towers and walls. (Mariti, Viagyi,

vol. i. p. 125 ; Engel, Kyprot, vol. L pp. 3". 78, 174,

224, 364. 507.) [E. B. J.J

LAPATHUS. a fortress in the north of Thessaly,

near Tempo, which Leake identities with the an­

cient castle near Raptani. (Liv. xliv. 2, 6; Leake,

Northern Greece, vol. iii. pp. 397, 418.)

LAPHY'STllM. [Bokotia, p. 412, b.]

LAPIDEI CAMPI or LAPIDEUS CAMPUS

(vioio* AitiwSer, \i0ivov Ttoiav'), in <iallia Narbo-

nensis. Strabo (p. 182) says: " Between Massalia

and the mouths of the Rhone there is a plain, about

100 stadia from the sea, arid as much in diameter,

being of a circular form; and it is called the

Stony, from its character; for it is full of stones, of

the size of a man's fist, which have grass growing

among them, which furnishes abundant food for

animals: and in the middle there is standing water,

and salt springs, and salt. Now all the country that

lies above is windy, but on this plain especially the

Melamborian (Aa But) comes down in squalls, — a

violent and chilling wind: accordingly, they say that

some of the stones are moved and rolled about, and

that men are thrown down from vehicles, and stripped

both of arms and clothing by the blast." This is

the plain called Ijx Crau, near the east sido of the

east branch of the delta of the Khone, and near the

E'tniyj de Berre. It is described by Arthur Young

(7'ruifti, cfc. vol. i. p. 379, 2nd ed.), who visited and

saw |>art of the plain. He supposed that there might

be about 136.780 English acres. "It is composed

entirely of shingle—being so uniform a mass of round

stones, some to the size of a man's head, but of all

sizes less, that the newly thrown up shingle of a sea­

shore U hardly less free from soil. Beneath these

surf:ice-stones is not so much a sand as a kind of

cemented rubble, a small mixture of loam with frag­

ments of stone. Vegetation is rare and miserable.*

The only use that the uncultivated part is turned to,

he says, is to feed, in winter, an immense number of

sheep, which in summer feed in the Alps towards

Barcelonette and Piedmont When be saw the place,

in August, it was very bare. The number of sheep

said to be fed there is evidently an exasperation.

Some large tracts of the Crau had been broken up

when be was there, and planted with vines, olives,

and mulberries, and converted into corn and meadow.

Com had not succeeded; but the meadows, oovered

richly with "clover, chicory, rib-grass, and arena

tlatior' presented an extraordinary contrast to the

■oil in its natural state. The name Crau is probably

a Celtic word. In the Slatittijue du Depart die

Ikmchtt du Rhone (torn. ii. p. 190, quoted in Ukcrt's

Gallien, 425) it is supposed that Croon, as it ia

there written, ia a Ligurian word; wiiich may be

true, or it may Dot. What is added u more valuable

information: "There is in Provence a number nf

places which have this name; and one may even say

that there is not a village which has not in its terri­

tory a Crnou."

Aristotle (Strabo, p. 182) supposed that earth­

quakes, of the kind named Braslae threw up these

stones to the earth's surface, and that they rolled

down together to the hollow places in these parts.

Posidonius, who, having travelled in Gal I.a, ha I

probably seen the Crau, supposed that the place was

once a lake. Here the text in Strabo is obscure, and

perhaps corrupt: but he seems to mean that tbe

action of water rounded the stones, for he adds, after

certain words not easy to explain, that (owing to

this motion of the water?) " it was divided intomanr

stones, like the pebbles in rivers and the shingle on

the sea-sbore." Strabo (whose text is here again

somewhat corrupted) considers both explanations as

far true, that stones of this kind could uot have been

so made of themselves, but must have come from

great rocks being repeatedly broken. Another hypo­

thesis, not worth mentioning, is recorded in the note*

of Eustathius {ad Dionys. Periea. v. 76).

It is a proof of the early communication between

the Phocaean colony of Mass.ilia and other parts .f

Greece, that Aeschylus, whose geography is neither

extensive nor exact, was acquainted with the existence

of this stony plain; for in the Prometheui Unbound

(quoted by Strabo) he makes Prometheus tell Hercules

that when he comes into the country of the Ligyea,

Zeus will Bend him a shower of round stones, to de­

feat the Ligurian army with. This stony plain was

a good ground for mythological figments. (The fol­

lowing passages of ancient authors refer to this plain:

Mela, ii. 5; Plin. iii. 4, xxi. 10; Gellius, it 22, azxi

Seneca, Xat. Quaest. v. 17, who speak of the violent

wind in this part of Gallia; and Dionys, Halicara.

i. 41, who quotes part of the passage from the

PromeUieua Unbound.)

This plain of stones probably owes its origin to tbe

floods of the Khone and the Durance, at some rernot*

c|-k_ 11 when the lower part of the delta of the Rliorw

was covered by the sea. [G. L.]

LA'PITHAE (AavMoi), a mythical race in Thes-

saly. See Diet, of liiogr. and Myth. Vol. IL p. 781.

LAPITHAKL.M. [UcojriA.p. U3,a.]

LAPITHAS. [Bus. p. 817, b.]

LAPPA, LAMPA (Aomro, Pud. iii. 17. § 10;

AaVva. Aifiwai, Hicrocl. ; A<uur», Steph. B.: £lh.

Aaroaius, Aa^va7ot), an inland tuwn of Crete, with

a district extending from sea to sea (Scylax, p. 18X

and possessing the port Phoenix. (Strab. x. p.475 )

Although the two forms of this city's name occur ia

ancient authors, yet on coins and in inscriptions the

word Lappa is alone found. Stephanua of Byaantinm

ahows plainly that the two names denote ths same

place, when he says that Xenion, in his Crttica, wrote

the word Lappa, and not Lamps. The same an:bur

(i. v. AaV«Tj) says that it was founded by Agamem­

non, and was called after one Lampos, a Tarrliaean;

the interpretation of which seems to be that it wast

a colony of Taxrha.

When Lyctus had been destroyed by the Cnosaiana,

its citizens found refuge with tbe people of Lapp*

(Polyb. iv. 53). After tbe submission of Cyduuia,

Cnossus, Lyctus, and Eleutbema, to the arms of Mr-

tellus, the Humans advanced against Lappa, wt* h

was taken by storm, and appears to have been alrmt

entirely destroyed. (Dion Cass, xxxvi. 1.) Attxnsv

tus, in consideration of the aid rendered to hint 1-y

the Lappaeans in his struggle with M. Antauua,

