Ill) LACONIA. LACON'IA.

plain, and hence Euripides, in contrasting the two

countries, describes Laconia as a poor land, in which

there is a large tract of arable, hut of laborious

tillage (ap. Strab. viii. p. 366). This is in ac­

cordance with the account of Leake, who says that

the soil of the plain is in general a poor mixture of

white clay and stones, difficult to plough, and better

suited to olives than corn. (Sforea. vol. i. p. 148.)

The vale, however, possesses a genial climate, being

sheltered on every side by mountains, and the

scenery is of the most beantiful description. Hence

Lacedaemon has been aptly characterised by Homer

as " a hollow pleasant valley" (koiAt) iparurfi, 11.

ii. 581, Ui. 443, Od iv. 1). The climate is favour­

able to beauty; and the women of the Spartan plain

are at present taller and more robust than the other

Greeks, have more colour in general, and look

healthier; which agrees also with Homer's Aojm-

iaifiova KaWiyvvaiKa (Leake, Morea, vol. iii. p.

149). The security of the Spartan plain against

hostile attacks has been briefly alluded to. There

were only two roads practicable for an invading

army; one by the upper Kurotas, leading from

southern Arcadia and Stcnyclarus; the other by the

long and narrow valley of the Onus, in which tho

roads from Tegea and Argos united near Sellasia.

3. Vale of the Ixncer Eurotas. At the southern

extremity of the Spartan plain, the mountains again

approach so close, as to leave scarcely space for the

passage of the Eurotas. The mountains on the

western side are the long and lofty counterfurk of

lit, Taygetus, called Lykobini, which has been

already mentioned. This gorge, through which the

Eurotas issues from the vale of Sparta into the

maritime plain, is mentioned by Strabo (o Ei'pwras

— oifjiu'p axi\uvi Tira pcurpov, viiL p. 343). It is

about 12 miles in length. The maritime plain,

which is sometimes called the plain of Helos, from

the town of this name upon the coast, is fertile and

of some extent. In the lower part of it the Eurotas

flows through marshes and sandbanks into the La-

conian golf.

The banks of the Eurotas and the dry parts of

iU bed are overgrown with a profusion of reeds.

Hence the epithets of ooraxoTpoipos and Sovtutiim

are frequently given to it by the poets. (Theogn.

785; Eurip Iphig. in Aid. 179, Helm. 207.)

The only tributary of the Eurotas, which pos­

sesses an independent valley, is the Genus already

mentioned. The other tributaries are mere moun­

tain torrents, of which the two following names

have been preserved, both descending from Mt. Tay­

getus through the Spartan plain: TlASA (Tiaaa,

I'aus. iii. 18. § 6; Athcn. iv. p. 139), placed by

I'ausanias on the road from Amyclae to Spuria, and

hence identified by I>eake with the Pandelrimona;

1'iir.i.UA c+.AA.a. iii. 20. §3), the river between

Amyclae and Pharis. The Cnacion (Kraxiuf),

mentioned in one of the ordinances of Lycurgus, was

identified by later writers with the Oeuus. (HluU

Lgc.6.)

The streams Smf.si'8 and Sctbah, flowing into

the sea on the western side of the LaconUin gulf,

are spoken of below. [See p. 114, b.]

Before leaving the rivers of laconia, a few words

must be said respecting an ancient La<■■ nian bridge

still existing, which has been assigned to the re­

motest antiquity. This is the bridge of Xrrntampo,

built over a tributary of the Eurotas, about three

hours' ride to the south of S|«rta, just where the

stream issues from one of the deepest and darkest

gorges of Taygetus. It was first discovered by

ltoss, and has been described by Mure, who supples

it to belong to the same period as the monuments of

Mycenae. Even if it does not belong to so early a

date, but is a genuine Hellenic work, it would esta­

blish the fact that the Greeks were acquainted with

the use of the concentric arch at a very early period;

whereas it has been usually supposed that it was)

not known to them till the time of Alexander the

Great. The general appearance and character of

this structure will be best seen from the annexed

drawing tuken from Mure. The masonry is of the

polygonal species: the largest stones are those of the

arch, some of which are from four to five feet lung,

from two to three in breadth, and between one and

two in thickness. From the character of the struc­

ture, and from its remote situation, Mure concludes

that it cannot be a Roman work; and there are

strong reasons for believing that the Greeks were

acquainted with the use of the arch at a much

earlier period than has been usually supposed.

(Mure, vul. ii. p. 247, seq.; comp. Leake, l'tloptm-

naiaca, p, 116, seq.)

UIU1H.E OF XF.KOKAMrO.

There arc no other plains in I-aconia except the

three above mentioned in the valley of the Eurotas;

but on the slopes of the mountains, especially on

those of I'amon, there is a considerable quantity of

arable as well as pasture ground. The whole arem

of Laconia is computed to contain 1896 English

square miles.

IV. HisTORr.

The political history of the country forms a

prominent part of Grecian history, and cannot be

narrated in this place at sufficient length to be of

value to the student. But as the boundaries of

Laconia differed considerably at various periods,

it is necessary to mention briefly those facts in the

history of the country which produced thioe change*.

It will be seen from the preceding description of

the physical features of Laconia, that the plain

of Sparta forms the very kernel and heart of the

country. Accordingly, it was at all times the seat

of the ruling class; and from it the whole country

received its appellation. This place is said to have

been originally inhabited by the Lelrgc*, the meat

ancient inhabitants of the country. According to

tradition, Lelex, the first king, was succeeded by has

son My lea, and the latter by his son Eurotaa, who

collected into a channel the waters which were

spread over the plain, and gave his own name to tho

river whirh he had thus formed. He died w itbout

male offspring, and was succeeded by Lacetlaemfsn.

the son of Zeus and TaVgeta, who married Sparta,

