524 rALAESTINA. FALAESTIKA.

which circumstance its name is derived. It receives

in) animal body; bulls ami camels float in it; and

this is the origin of the report that nothing sinks

in it. In length it exceeds 100 miles; its greatest

breadth is 25 miles, its least C. On the east of it

lies Arabia Nomadum, on the south Macherus, for­

merly the second fortress of Judaea alter Jerusalem.

On the same side there is situated a hot- sprint;,

possessing medicinal properties, named Callirrhoe,

indicating by its name the virtues of its waters."

(//;.<( XaL fib. v. 16.)

The last author who will be here cited is Tacitus,

whose account may he given in the original. lie

appears in this, as in other passages, to have

drawn largely on Josephus, hut had certainly con-

Milted other writers. He wrote a. p. 97.

"Lncus immensoainbitu, specie maris, sapore cor­

rupter, gravitate odoris aeeolis pestifer, nequevento

jmpellitur, neque piscesaut suet as aquis volucres pati-

tur. Incertae undae : superjacta, ut solido. 1'erunt: pe- i

rili imperitique nandi perinde attolluntur. Certo

anni, bitumen egerit: eujus legendi usum, ut cetcnis

artes, experientia d-jcuit. Ater suaptt* natura liquor,

et sparso accto coneretus, innatat: hunc manu cap-

tum, quibus ea cura, in Minima navis trahunt. Inde,

iiullo juvante, inHuit, oneratque, donee abscindas:

nec abscindere acre ferrovc possis: fugit cruorem

vestemque infectam sanguine, quo feminae ]*r menses

exsolvuntur: sic veteres auctores. Sed gnari lo-

eorum tradunt, undautes bitumine moles pelli, ma-

nuque trahi ad littus: mox, ubi vapore terrae, solis

inaruerint securibus cuneisque, ut trabes aut saxa,

discindi. Haud proculinde campi, quos ferunt olim

uberes, magnisque urbibus tiabitatos, fulminum jactu

ai^i>se: et manere vestigia, terramque ipsam si>ecie

torridam, vim frugiferam perdidisse. Nam cum ta

sponte edita, aut manu sata, sive herba tenus aut flore,

sen solitam in speciem adolevere, atra et iuania velut

in cinerem vanescunt Ego sieut inclvtas quondam

iirbes igne coelcsti flagrasse concesserim, ita halitu

lacus infiei terrain, eorrumpi su[*rfusuin spiritum,

eoque foetus segetum et autumni putresceie reor,

s<i]o rocloque juxt.i gravi." (Hist. v. 6.)

This sea is sulwquently noticed by Galen (a. d.

16-1) and Pausanhis (cir. a. i>. 174). but their ac­

counts are evidently borrowed from some of those

above cited from Greek, Jewish, and Latin writers;

in illustration of whose statements reference will

now he made to modern travellers, who have had

better opportunities of testing the truth than were

presented to them; and it will appear that those

statements, even in their most marvellous particu­

lars, are wonderfully trustworthy; and that the hy­

potheses by which they endeavoured to account for

the phenomena of this extraordinary lake are con­

tinued by the investigations of modern science.

1. General Remarks,— It is deeply to he regretted

that the results arrived at by the American explor­

ing expedition, under Lieut. Lynch, have been given

to the world only in the loo*e, unsystematic and

thoroughly unsatisfactory notes scattered through

the personal narrative published by that officer; and

that his official report to his government has not

been made available for scientific purposes. The few

meagre facta worth chronicling have been extracted

in a number of the Bibliotheea Sacra, from which

they are here copied. (Vol. v. p. 767, and vol. vii,

p. 396.) The distance in a straight line from the

fountain '.4iii-el-Ftskkhah, on the west, directly

across to the eastern shore, was nearly 8 statute

miles. The soundings gave 690 feet as the greatest

depth. Another line was run diagonally fn*a

same point to the south-east, to a chain) fcnuaf tta

outlet of the hot-springs of Callirrhoe. The \t*\m

of tlte northern half of the sea is almost an er.tin

plain. Its meridional lines at a short d*ULa

from the shore scarce vary in depth. The <lfTpei

soundings thus far are 188 fathoms, or II SB M

Near the shore the bottom is generally an inn-usta

tion of salt; but the intermediate one is wn\ •!:!

many rectangular crystals, mostly cul«s» ff pw

salt. The southern half ot the sea i* as shallow i

the northern one is deep, and for a boat one-ft«ft b <

its entire length the depth does not exceed 3 u\ma

or 18 feet. Its southern lwd presented no crr»:aa

but the shores are lined with incrustations of mi

Thus, then, the bottom of the Dead .V* farm t»

submerged plains, an elevated and a depressed <a

The first, its southern part, of slimy mud a>vwi

by a shallow bay: the last, its northern and Wr*

jHirti'tn, of mud with incrustations and rntasjol

crystals of salt, at a great depth, with a iu-ti

ravine running through it, corresponding with u

bed of the river Jordan at one extremity a^l tl

Wady-el-Jrib at the other. The opposite st*r

of the peninsula and tiie west coast present eitie

marks of disruption.

2. Dimensions. — It will have been seen thai i

ancient authorities differ widely as to the sne

the sea: Diodorus stating it at 5iH> stadia by 4

Pliny at 100 milt's in length, by 25 m.les m

widest, and 6 miles in its narrowest part; J«**ji

at 280 stadia by 150. Strabo's measure er+x*

belongs to tlie SirUjiiis Lac us. with which t* a

founded the I>ead Sea, and is copied from 1>,od n

description of that lake. Of these rneasnna 1

earliest, viz. that of DiodoTOS, conies wanS

modern measurement. W'c have seen that a array

line from 'Ain-el-Ftshkhah to the east shi n a

sured nearly 8 statute miles: from 'Aim Jh*w cim

across to the mouth of the Anion the di*:*u»i

about 9 statute miles. The length of the <*a 4

not seem to have been measured by the An»-nri

but tlie near agreement ot their actual mee*e*vfl

of the width with the computation of Dr. K*t-J

may give credit to his estimate of the letrrii <

Bis observations resulted in fixing the bnadd

the sea at 'Ain Jithf at about 9 geographical x

and the length about 39,— Ain Jiiiy being

nearly at the middle point oi" the meters a

{Bib. Res. vol. ii. p. 217.)

3. Soilness and i>pectjic Grijrify. —. Its *i

sive saltness, noticed by Joseph us, is «oni«

all travellers; and is indicated by the pr«--«at

crystals of salt in profusion over the t»-d -J

sea, — "at one time Stellwagen's lead brc«£b

nothing but crystals,"—as well as l>v the da

of rock-salt at the south-west quarter of ih*

where the American officers diseorenesi ■ a I

round pillar, standing detached from the r*

mass, composed of solid salt, capped with » -

of lime, cylindrical in front and pvramidal 'jw

about 40 feet high, resting on a kind of era

destal from 40 to 60 feet above th« ievri a

sea." (Lynch, JCxjxdition, p. 3o7.) In the stat

bay of the sea, where the water eDcna*£«i

or less according to the season, it *2riv*

shallows and small pools, which in the nd j

a SJilt as tine and as well bleach**!, xa mt

stances, as that in regular salt-fans. In tbv

where the salt water stagnates ai»d evapors;^

and A Ling lea "found several |>enHms> evrx:

