IDS LACONIA. LAC.MON.

vol. i. p. 34), a tributary town of tlio Tunliill in

Hispania Bactica, near the shore of the Mediter­

ranean, where its ruins arc still seen at A Ircip/x,

near Ciaaret. Ptolemy places it too far inland.

(Mela, ii. 6. § 7; Plin. iii. I. s. 3; Carter, TrareU,

p. 128; Ukcrt, vol. u. pt. 1. p. 348.) [P. S.]

LACMOX (Adjc/taw, Hecat Fr. 70; Herod, iz.

92; Steph. B. t. p.) or LACMUS (Aok^oj, Strab.

Ti. p. 271, vii. p. 316), the highest suinniit of

Mount Pindus, tlie Zggot or ridge of ilebovo.

This is geographically the most remarkable moun­

tain in Greece; situated in the heart of Pindns as

to its breadth, and centrally also in the longitudinal

chain which pervades the continent from N. to S.:

it gives rise to five principal rivers, in fact to all

the great streams of Northern Greece except the

Spercheius; north-eastward to the Haliacmnn,

south-eastward to the Peneius, southward to the

Achclous, south-westward to the Aruchthiis, and

north-westward to the Aous. (Leake, Northern

Greece, vol. i. pp.294,411—415, vol. iv. pp.240,

261,276.) [E.B.J.]

LACOBRI'GA. [ 1. Lusitania j 2. Vaccaki.]

LACO'XIA, LACO'NICA, or LACKIJAEMON,

the south-easterly district of Peloponnesus.

I. Name.

Its mast ancient name was Lacedaemm (Aaw-

oafjuw), which is the only form found in Homer,

who applies this name as well to the country, as to

its capital. («. ii. 581, iii. 239, 244, Ac.) The

usual name in the Greek writers was I.aeonica

(?) AattmuHi, so. fy), though the form Lacedacmon

Mill continued to bo used. (Herod, vi. 58.) The

Romans called the country Laconica (Plin. xxv.

8. s. 53; Laconics, Mela, ii. 3) or Laconia

(Plin. vi. 34. s. 39, xvii. 18. s. 30), the latter of

which is the form usually employed by modem

writers. Mela (t. c.) also uses Laconis, which is

borrowed from the Greek (i Aoxwvli 7aia, Horn.

Hymn, in A poll. 410.) The Ethnic names are

Aaxmv, -uvos, AaKfoaiu.onov, Lat. Laco or Lacon,

-nis, Lacedacmonius; fern. Arfxauu, Acuturfs, La-  
conis. These names are applied to the whole free

population of Laconia, both to the Spartan citizens

and to the Penned, spoken of below (for authori­

ties, see Clinton, F. //. vol. ii. pp. 405,406). They

are usually derived from a mythical hero, Lacon or

Laccdaemon; hut some modem writers think that

the root Lac is connected with AdVtor, Advicor, lacut,

liirunn, and was given originally to the. central

district from its being deeply sunk between moun­

tains. (Curtiua, Pclnponnetos, vol. ii. p. 309.) •

II. General Description or the Cocktky.

The natural features of Laconia are strongly

marked, and exercised a powerful influence upon the

history of the people. It is a long valley, surrounded

on three sides by mountains, and open only on the

fourth to the sea. On the north it is bounded by

the southern harrier of the Arcadian mountains,

from which run in a parallel direction towards the

south, the two lofty mountain ranges of TaVgetus

and Parnon, — the former dividing I.aconia and

Mrssenia, and terminating in the promontory of

Tacnarum, now C. Matnpan, the southernmost ex­

tremity oi (ircece and of Europe, the latter stretch­

ing along the eastern eoast, and terminating in

the promontory of Malea. The river Eurotns Hows

through the entire length of the valley lying between

so mountain masses, and falls into the sea, wl.ich

was called the Lawman gulf. I-aconia is well de­

scribed bv Euripides as a country "hollow, sur­

rounded by mountains, rugged, and difficult of trees

to an enemy" (ap. Strab. viii. p. 366); and the

difficulty of invading it made even Epaminnndas

hesitate to enter it with his army. (Xen. Hell, r. 5.

§ 10.) On the northern side there are only two

natural passes by which the plain of Sparta can be

invaded. (See below.) On the western side the lofty

masses of Target us form an almost insurm>nntaM*

barrier; and the pass across them, which WU

into the plain of Sjiarta, is so difficult as scarcely

to be practicable for an army. On the eastern

side the rocky character of the coast protects it from

invasion by sea.

III. Mountains, Kivers, and Plains.

Mount Tat<;i:ti;s (Tat-ytrov, to TqGyrror

upos, the common forms; Tatytrot, Lueian, frarvm.

19; to. TaiyiTa, Polyacn. vii. 49; Taygeta. YTrg.

Georg. ii. 487: the first half of this word is said

by Hesychins to signify great). This mountain

is the loftiest in Peloponnesus, and extends in an

almost unbroken line for the sp.iee of 70 miles from

L*<mdari in Arcadia to C. MatopaiK Ita vast

height, unbroken length, and majestic form, have

been celebrated by both ancient and modem writers.

Homer gives it the epithet of noip^mvor ( Od. vi.

103), and a modem traveller remarks that, "whether

from ita real height, from the grandeur of its outlii.e,

or the abruptness of its rise from the plain, it created

in his mind a stronger impression of stupendous

hulk and loftiness than any mountain be bad Bern ii

Greece, or perha|»s in any other part of Europe."

(Mure, Tour in Greece, vol. ii. p. 221.) Taygetos

rises to its greatest height immediately above Sjarta.

Its principal summit was called Taletuji (T«A«Tcr)

in antiquity: it was sacred to the Sun, and horxs

and other victims were here sacrificed to this gi«i.

(Paus. iii. 20. § 4.) It is now called S. Fling, to

whose clmjfl on the summit an nttnual pilgrimage

is made in the middle of the summer. Its bright

has been ascertained by the French Commission to

be 2409 metres, or 7902 English feet. Another

summit near Taletum was called Evoras (Ei-oper.

Belvedere, Paus. I r.), which Leake identifies with

Mt. Pazimiilhi, the highest snmmit next to St. Flint,

from which it is distant 5} geographical mile*.

The ancient names of none of the other heights are

mentioned.

By the Byzantine writers Taygetua was called

Pkntedactvi.im (vi ntmteLKTvKor), or tlm

'* Five Fingers," on account of its various sum­

mits aliove the Spartan plain. (Constant. pnrjjtyr.

de Atlm. Imp. c. 50.) In the 13lh century it

bore the name of MelinguM (o (uyos roi M<-

\jyyov, see Leake, Prhpotmetiaca. p. 138). At

the base of TaVgetus, immediately above the Spar­

tan plain, there is a lower ridgr running paraJWI

to the higher summits. This lower ridge ron*i»i»

of huge projecting masses of precipitous rrk». n*ie

of which are more than 2000 feet high, thooxu

tbey appear insignificant when coin|urcd with tbr

lofty barrier of TaVgetus behind them. After at­

taining its greatest elevation, Mt. TaVgetus siokj

gradually down towards the south, and scrub 1 nh

a long and 1 >ftr rnuntcrfork towards the Eurotav

now called L;/h*bt'mi (AuKoGvvr t Wolfs-mountain),

whieh bounds the Spirtan plain on the south. It

there contracts again, and runs down, as the back­

bone of a small peninsula, to the southernmost ex­

