ROMA. ROMA. 765

and renewed the attempt at lower points;

I cJ»e loot of the Hundred Steps, for instance, on

» wit, and at the bottom of the I.nrus Asyli on

»ttir; on both whirh aides they again attempted

mat. The Palazzo de Coniervatori, though

i ti» highest point of the hill, is above the

m Becker, as we hare shown, has adopted the

mrriy erroneous opinion that the "Capitolinae

r» fares" belonged to the Capitol itself (note

if) tud that consequently the Vitellians were

rauae it from the Viazztt del Campidoglio (note

41. But the portiro from which they were driven

■ was on the clivus, and consequently they could

E have reached the top of the hill, or piazza. The

rwtwat that the temple must have been on the

I. briarfat, because the Vitellians attempted to

m it by mounting the Centum Gradus (Becker,

rvae, p. 4:i). may be retorted by those who

I tli: the attack was directed against the Arx.

i p-"?ra* spM of the Lncus Asyli cannot be indi-

A ; hat from Livy's description of it, it was evi-

t!y •orarwbrre on the descent of the hill ("locuni

soar septus descendentibut inter duos lucos est,

Ira a peril." i. 8). It is probable, as 1'reller

pan (PkiloL y. 99), tli.it the "aditus juxta

n Asrli" was) on the NE. side of the hill near

.not anrh of Sererus. The Clivus Asyli is

turn, there was only one clivus on the Capitoline.

IV lava only one more remark to make on this

acre. It is plain that the fire broke out near

Lorss Aayli, and then spreading from house to

*_ i i.-i t at last the front of the temple. This  
M from Tacitus' account of tho portico and the

»• watch supported the Jattigium or pediment,

rj-.bmg fire. The back-front of the Capito-

'*rrpi« was plain, apparently a mere wull;

LSonrahta (nr. 61) does not say a single word

t .:. thwogh be particularly describes the front

aatar a triple row of columns and the sides

* laaa. But as we know that the temile  
tie aonth. such an accident could not have

~W except it stood on the NE. height, or that

a i£at. therefore, by substituting Caffarelli

the triumphant remark with which

hie explanation of this passage: "To

aWatbrs, who would seek the temple of Jupiter

r >'ghl ot" CnfartlU, the description of Ta-

a at every respect inexplicable."

a era next argument in favour of the W.

xtuivex an equivocation. It is, "that the

i waa built om that summit of the bill

bate tire name of Moris Tarpeius." Now

ataiaraoaot — and as we have already esta-

I r. w« need not repeat it here — that before

■dtaaj of toe Capitol the it-hole hill was called

lira, iwe The passages cited by Becker in

\j (Lie. L 55; Lhonys. iii. 69) mean nothing

ban tana ; indeed, the latter expressly states

'I f'im j rcVrc SMS* fVaAcrro Tafnrfjios, vv» ii

reAiVff) Capitolinm gradually became

lwm bar the whole bill; bot who can believe

jaw ««f Tarpeia continued to be retained at

srr pnrtaon of it where the Capitoline temple

■Jr. f The process was evidently as follows:

-. -~rn bright, on which the temple waa built,  
tnt alone called Capitolium. Gradually its

gave name to the whole hill;

pirtion. the most remote from the

tbe primitive name of llupes Tar-

> eat us in a mutilated fragment, —

not however so mutilated but that the sense is plain

—" Noluerunt fnnestnm locum [cum altera parte]

Capitoli conjungi" (p. 343), where Mtiller remarks,

"non multum ab Ursini supplemento disorders

licebit."

Becker then proceeds to argue that the temple of

Juno Moneta was built on the site of the house of

M. Manlius Capitolinns, which was on the Arx

(Liv. v. 47; Plut. Com. 36; Dion Cass. Fr. 31,

&c); and we leam from Ovid (Fcut. i. 637) that

there were steps leading from the temple of Concord,

to that of Juno Moneta. Now as the former temple

was situated under the height of Araceli, near the

arch of Severus, this determines the question of the

site of Juno Moneta and the Arx. Ovid's words are

as follows:—-

"Candida, te niveo posuit lux pmxima templo

Qua fert sublimes alta Moneta gradus;

Nunc bene prospicies Latiam, Concordia, tur-

bam," &c.

This is very obscure; but we do not see how it can

be inferred from this passage that there were steps

from one temple to the other. We should rather

take it to mean that the temple of Concord was

placed close to that of Moneta, which latter waa

approached by a flight of lofty steps. Nor do we

think it very difficult to point out what these steps

were. The temple of Juno was on the Arx; that

is, according to our view, on the S\V. summit; and

the lofty steps were no other than the Centnm

Gradus for ascending the Rupes Tarpeia, as de­

scribed by Tacitus in the passage we have just been

discussing. Had there been another flight of steps

leading up to the top of the Capitoline hill, the

Vitellians would certainly have preferred them to

clambering over the tops of houses. But it will be

olijected that according to this view the temple of

Concord is placed upon the Arx, for which there is

no authority, instead of on the forum or clivus,

for which there is authority. Now this is exactly

the point at which we wish to arrive. There were

several temples of Concord, but only two of any re­

nown, namely, that dedicated by Kurius Camillus,

B. c. 367, and rcdedicated by Tiberius after his

German trinmph, which is the one of which Ovid

speaks; and another dedicated by the consul Opi-

mius after the sedition and death of Gracchus. Ap-

pian says that the latter temple was in the forum:

tj Of fiov\i] Koi vtiiv 'Ouoyuias a&rbv iv o/yopf lrpoff-

ira(i» iytipai (B.C. i. 26). But in ordinary lan­

guage the clivus formed part of the forum; and it

would be impossible to point out any place in the

forum, strictly so called, which it could have occupied.

It is undoubtedly the Eame temple alluded to by

Varro in the following passage: "Scnaculum supra

Graecostasim ubi aedisConcordiae ct basilica Opimia"

(/../,. v. p. 156, Mill!.): from which we may infer

that Opimius built at the same time a basilica,

which adjoined the temple. Becker (ffandb. p.

309) denied the existence of this basilica; but by

the time be published his Warnung he had grown

wiser, and quoted in the Appendix (p. 53) the fol­

lowing passage from Cicero (/). Sett. 67): " L. Opi­

mius cujus monumentum celeberrimnm in foro, se-

pulcruin desertissimum in littorc Dyrrachino est

relictum ;" maintaining, however, that this passage

related to Opimius' temple of Concord. But I'rliclis

(Horn. Top. p. ii6), after pointing out that the epi­

thet celeberrimum, " very much frequented," suited

better with a basilica than with a temple, produced

