1] 1G TEAKUK TEANUM.

same name, was a city of Apulia, situated on t lie right

bank of l lie river Frento (forfore), about 12 miles

from its mouth. If ap[>ears to have been one of the

most considerable cities of Apulia before its conquest

by the Romans; but its name is first mentioned in

it. c. 318, when, in conjunction with Canusium, it

submitted to the Roman consuls M. Foslius Flacci-

natorand L Plautius Venno. (Liv. ix. 20.) It is

a>;ain noticed during the Second Punic War, when it

wai selected by the dictator M. Junius Pera as the

place of his winter-quarters in Apulia. (Id. xxiii.

24.) Cicero incidentally notices it as a municipal

town, at the distance of 18 miles from Larinum

(Cie. pro ClueiU. 9), and its name is found in all

the geographers among the municipal towns of Apu­

lia. ' (Strab. vi p. 285; Mel. ii. 4. § G; Plin. iii.

II. s. 16; Ptol. iii. 1. § 72.) Its municipal rank

is continued also by an inscription, as well as by the

Lil«er Coloniarum, and it is clear that it never at­

tained the rank of a colony. (Oiell. Itiscr. 140;

Lib. Col. p. 210.) Its ruins still exist at a place

called Civitate, near the remains of a Roman bridge

(now called the Ponte di Civitate), over the Kortore,

by which the ancient road from Larinum to Luceria

crossed tliat river. The distance from the site of

Larinum agrees with that stated by Cicero of 18

miles (the Tabula erroneously gives only 12), and

the discovery of inscriptions on the spot leaves no

doubt of the identification. Considerable remains of

the walls are still extant, as well aa fragments of

oilier buildings. From these, as well as from an in­

scription in winch we find mention of the"Ordo

splendidissimus Civitatis Theanensium," it seems

probable that it continued to be a flourishing town

under the Roman Empire. The period of its final

decay is uncertain, but it retained its episcopal see

down to modern times, (Moisten. Not. ad Cluver,

p. 279; HomanellijVol. ii. p. 291 ; Mommsen, Inscr.

A A', p. 271.)

Strabo speaks of Teanum as situated at some

distance inland from a lake, the name of which he

does not mention, Imt which is clearly the Lacus

I'antanus uf Pliny, now called the Lugo di Lesitia.

From an inscription found on its banks it appears

that this was comprised within the territory of Tea-

nnmt which thus extended down to the sea (Roma-

nelli, c), though about 12 miles distant from the

coast.

Several Italian topographers have assumed the

existence of a city in Apulia of the name of Teate,

distinct from Teanum (Giovenazzi, Sito di Aveja,

p. 13; Roinanelli, vol. iL p. 2SG); but there seems

no dimbt that tlie two names are only different forms

of the same, and that the Teates Apuli of Livy

(ix. 20) are in reality the people of Teanum. It is

true that that, writer mentions them as if they were

distinct from the Teanenses whom he had mentioned

just before; but it is probable that this arises merely

from his having followed different annalists, and that

both statements refer in fact to the same people, and

are a repetition of the same occurrence. (Mommsen,

f'nier-ftid. Dvikkt. p. 301.) In like manner the

Teate mentioned in the Liber Coloniarum (p. 261)

is evidently the same place culled in an earlier part

of the same document (p. 210) Teanum. [K. H. Ii.]

TE.VXUM (Tiavov. Eth. Teanensis: Tenno),

sometimes called for distinction's sake Teanum

Siiucinum (Liv. xxii. 57; Cic. ad Alt. viii. 11;

Plin. i i. 5. s. 9; Tiavov S(5nv?iw, Strab. v. p.

237). an important city of Campania, situated in

the interior of that province, on the Via Latina,

i between Cales and Caainnm. (Stmb. t. p, 2T37.)

] It wxs therefore the frontier city of Caatpatia, a

I that term was understood under the Riaas

pirc; but originally Teanum was not rfck«-« i

Campantan city at all, but was the capital 4 tb

small independent 1ribe of the Sidirini. [Siwcnt]

It was indeed the only place of imp^irx* iku ifcn

possessed, so that Livy in more than ow iataw

alludes to it, where he is speuking uf tint w--.*.

merely as " their city,** without mentificic^ \:i ra=»

(Liv. viii. 2, 17). Hence its hisiorr belTt ti*

Roman conquest is identical with that of ti.# pp^e,

which will be found in the article SiPimn. Ta

first mention of Teanum after the Rot-io crc;W-.

is in b.c. 21fi, immediately after tbe ca"> i

Cannae, when Marcel 1 us sent forward a he---

Rome thither, evidently with the vi*w d ksq

the line of the Via Latina. (Liv. iiii. 57.) A H

years later, B.C. 211. it was selected us pint*

confinement for a part of the senators of

while they were awaiting their sentence fnsa fcaw;

but the consul Fulvius, contrary to the opiwe 4' -

colleague App. Claudius, caused then all V- bs ir

to death without waiting for the decree of the

(Liv. xxvi. 15.) From this time Teacasi Skc»

an ordinary municipal town : it is inciiienLiET ce-

tioned as such on several occasions, and its

I on the Via Latina doubtless contribmed to its

perity. A cross outrage offered to fine of :ts

cipal magistrates by the Roman consul, n sett*

in one of the orations of C. Gracvhas (vp. A. Gf-

x. 3), and we learn from Cicero that it *a> J b

time a flourishing and populous town. (Ck.iVL*

Agr. ii. 31, 35, ad. Att. viii. 11, d.) Li ear-

repeatedly occurs in the Sxial War asi tiw >"-

test between Sulla and Marias (Appian, B. C i C

85); and at a later peri d it was the pat

the commanders of the legions in Italy beJdik -

of congress, with a view to bring about a ws

ation between Oct avian and L. Antonias (A.v.S'-

It was one of the cities whose territory ifce tr'rtT

Rullus proposed by his law to divide anxcg tbr

man people (Cic. c.); but this mi*Mfta» «■

averted. It subsequently, however. received »cjU

under Augustus {Lib. Col. p. 23is; Plin. ni. 5. * i.

and seems to have retained its colonial rani at5* ■

Empire. (Mommsen, hiscr. R. X. 39s9, ■'

Strabo tells us that it was the Urge>: x «::

populous town on the Via Latina, and ti« =•

considerable of the inland cities of Campos* aO

Capua. (Strab. v. pp. 237, ) bcn^B *-

existing remains confirm this account of js> sr- -

tance, but we hear little more of i: under :> u

Empire. The Itineraries place it 16 nuies Ctffc'-*"

sinum, and 18 from Venafrnm: a cnj&s r»J -"-

I struck off from Teanum t-> Allit'ae, Teleaia. ar-" i*-

neventum. {/tin. Ant pp. 121. 304; T<& F«*1

j Another branch also CMnmu&icated witfl Sua*

I and Mioturnae.

I Teanum was not more than 5 nr.les fho Ci5ff*

'the point where the territories of the tvo cia

■ joined was marked by two shrines or ardx^av ■'

1 Fortune, mentioned by Strabo, under tie itOf *

'al 5i)o Tvxai (v. p. 240).

Teanum appears to have declined asrx ^*

middle ages, and the modern city nf rrtsst* "»:

1 place, with only about 4000 ichabitacu, those*

I taining its episcopal see. Many ruios of tir *c ■=*

city are visible, though none nf them of r^-

I interest. They are situated below the re-ve.-a

which stands on a hill, and considerably now

