LAVINIUM. LAVINIUM, 145

owo^njiHj, Strab. xii. p. 534; Aaovtviav/i. Ptol.

r. ". § 9), the name of one of the four districts

Into which Cuppadocia was divided under the

Romans. It was the port extending from the

northern slope of Mount A man us to the Euphrates,

on the north of Aravene, and on the east of

Mariano. [L. S.]

LAV'IXILTM (Aaovtvtov; Aa€ivioy, Steph. B.:

Stk mtandnis, Laviniensis: Pratica), an ancient

city of Latium, situated about 3 miles from the sea-

c**st, between Laurentum and Ardea, and distant

17 muVs from Rome. It was founded, according to

the tradition universally adopted by Roman writers,

by Apneas, shortly after his landing in Italy, and

called by him after the name of his wife Lavinia, the

daughter of the king Latinus. (Liv. i. 1; Dionys. i.

45.39; Strab. v. p. 229; Varr. L.L. v. § 144;

Solin. 2. § 14.) The same legendary history repre-

sented Aicanius, the son of Aeneas, as transferring

uV seat of government and rank of the capital city

of the Latins from Lavinium to Alba, 30 years after

the foundation of the former city. But the attempt

to remove at the same time the Penates, or household

?jds of Lavinium, proved unsuccessful: the tutelary

deities returned to their old abode; hence Lavinium

ctctirmed not only to exist by the side of the new-

capital, but was always regarded with reverence as a

kind of tacred metropolis, a character which it re­

tained even down to a late period of the Roman his-

»ry. (Ut. L 8; Dionys. i. 66, 67; Strab. v. p.

229; Vict. Orig. Gent Horn. 17.) It is impossible

W to enter into a discussion of the legend of the

Trojan settlement in Latium, a question which is

'■flrtfy examined under the article Latium; but it

nav he observed that there are many reasons for

fitting the correctness of the tradition that La-

Titiiam was at one time the metropolis or centre of

tbt Latin state; a conclusion, indeed, to which we are

W by the name alone, for there can be little doubt

that Latinus and Lavinus are only two forms of the

wme name, so that Lavinium would be merely the ca-

;i'al or city of the Latins. (Niebuhr, vol. i. p. 201;

I>*!aM>nn, VarronianuSf p. 6.) The circumstance

■ !Mt the l'enates or tutelary gods of Lavinium con-

t.;u«j down to a late period to be regarded as those

"-< only of Rome, but of all Latium, affords a strong

wT^iration of this view. (Varr. L. L. v. § 144.)

Whether Lavinium was from the first only the sacred

metropolis of the Latin cities, — a kind of common

■aoctuajy or centre of religious worship (as supposed

■-* SJmegler, komische Getchkhte, vol. i. p. 319),

—or, as represented in the common tradition, was the

pvlitical capital also, until supplanted by Alba, is a

jmct on which it is difficult to pronounce with cer-

UiniT; bat the circumstance that Lavinium appears

ii history as a separate political community, and

3* of the cities composing the Latin League, would

**m opposed to the former view. It is certain,  
l*nr*rf that it had lost all political supremacy,

■fid that this had passed into the hands of Alba, at

ivs-ry early period; nor did Lavinium recover any

pfoieal importance after the fall of Alba: through-

*: the historical period it plays a very subordinate  
i*-t- The first notice we find of it in the Roman

^•_iYf U in the legends concerning Tatius, who is

^f^serited as being murdered at Lavinium on oc-

"ifffl of a solemn sacrifice, in revenge for some

fcpnslations committed by his followers on the

Uviaiao territory. (Liv. i. 14; Dionys. ii. 51, 52;

riot. Rom. 23;* Strab. v. p. 230.) It is remark-

*tW that Livy in this passage represents the people

VOL II.

injured as the Laurentes, though the injury was

avenged at Lavinium,—a strong proof of the intimate

relations which were conceived as existing between

the two cities. The treaty between Rome and La­

vinium was said to have been renewed at the samo

time (Liv. /. c), and there is no doubt that both the

Roman annals and traditions represented Lavinium,

as well as Laurentum, as almost uniformly on

friendly terms with Rome. It was, however, an

independent city, as is proved by the statement that

Collatmus and his family, when banished from Rome,

retired into exile at Lavinium. (Liv. ii. 2.) The

only interruption of these friendly relations took

place, according to Dionysius, a few years after this,

when he reckons the Lavinians among the Latin

cities which entered into a league against Rome

before the battle of Regillus. (Dionys. v. 61.)

There is, however, good reason to believe that the

names there enumerated are in reality only those of

the cities that formed the permanent Latin League,

and who concluded the celebrated treaty with Sp.

Cass i us in b. c. 493. (Niebuhr, vol. ii. pp. 23,

24.)

Lavinium is next mentioned during the wars of

Coriolanus, who is said to have besieged and, ac­

cording to Livy, reduced the city (Liv. ii. 39;

Dionys. viii. 21); but, from this time, we hear no

more of it till the great Latin War in n. c. 340.

On that occasion, according to our present text of

Livy (viii. 11), the citizens of Lavinium are repre­

sented as sending auxiliaries to the forces of the

League, who, however, arrived too late to be of ser­

vice. But no mention occurs of Lavinium in the

following campaigns, or in the general settlement of

the Latin state at the end of the war; hence it ap­

pears highly probable that in the former passage

Lanuvium, and not Lavinium, is the city really

meant; the confusion between these names in the

MSS. being of perpetual occurrence. [Lanuvium.]

It is much more probable that the Lavinians were

on this occasion also comprised with the Lauren tes,

who, as we are expressly told, took no part in the

war, and in consequence continued to maintain their

former friendly relations with Rome without interrup­

tion. (L. vi. /. c.) From this time no historical

mention occurs of Lavinium till after the fall of the

Roman Republic; but it appears to have fallen into

decay in common with most of the places near the coast

of Latium; and Strabo speaks of it as presenting the

mere vestiges of a city, but still retaining its sacred

rites, which were believed to have been transmitted

from the days of Aeneas. (Strab. v. p. 232.) Dio­

nysius also tells us that the memory of the three

auimals—the eagle, the wolf, and the fox — which

were connected by a well-known legend with the

foundation of Lavinium, was preserved by the figures

of them still extant in his time in the forum of that

town; while, according to Varro, not only was there

a similar bronze figure of the celebrated sow with

her thirty young ones, but part of the flesh of the

sow herself was still preserved in pickle, and shown

by the priests. (Dionys. i. 57, 59; Varr. R. R. ii.

4.) The name of Lavinium is omitted by Pliny,

where we should have expected to find it, between

Laurentum and Ardea, but he enumerates among

the existing communities of Latium the " Ilionenses

Lavini," — an appellation evidently assumed by the

citizens in commemoration of their supposed Trojan

descent. (I'lin. iii. 5. s. 9.)

Shortly after the time of Pliny, and probably in

the reign of Trajan, Lavinium seems to have re-

L

