MEVANIOLA. 353 MIDEIA.

liter period it was occupied by the emperor Vitcllius,

with the intention of defending the passes of the

Apennines against the generals of Vespasian, but

be quickly abandoned it again, and retired to Rome.

(Tic. But. iii. 55, 59.) As it was situated in the

phin, it could scarcely be a very strong fortress; but

i'liar notices it as one of the few cities of Italy that

hid walls of brick (xxxv. 14. s. 49). Strabo speaks

of it as in his time one of the most considerable

towns in the interior of Uinbria: it was only of mu­

nicipal rank, but seems to have continued a flourish­

ing place throughout the period of the Empire.

(Stab. v. p. 227; Plin. iii. 14. s. 19; Ptol. iii. 1.

§54; Bin. AnL p. 311; Orell. Irucr. 98.) The

modem Btvagna is a very poor and decayed place,

with little more than 2000 inhabitants, though re­

taining iu episcopal see, and the title of a city. It

contains some remains of an amphitheatre, and mosaic

pavements which belonged to the ancient Thermae.

(Calindri, Stat del Pontif. Stato, p. 104.)

Merania appears to be indicated by the poet Pro-

pmius himself as the place of his birth (iv. 1. 123),

though others understand this passage differently,

and regard Hispellum as having the better claim.

(Birth. ViL Propert.; Kuinoel, ad I. c.) It was

noted for the fogs to which it was subject. (Propert

it; Sil. Ital. vi. 646.) Pliny speaks of its ter­

ritory (Mevanas ager, ziv. 3 § 37) as producing a

[articular kind of vine, which he calls Irtiola; pro­

bably the same now called "Piizotcllo," for which

the district is still celebrated. (Harduin, ad loc.;

Kimpeldi. Coroyrafia, vol. i. p. 233.) [E. H. B.]

MEVANIOLA. [Umbrja.]

MIACOKUS or MILCORUS (Miejrapos, Mi'A-

«•?«; Theopomp. ap. Steph. B. s. v.), a place which

may be assigned to the interior of Chalcidice.

(Leake, XortX. Greece, vol. iii. p. 456.) [E. B. J.]

M1BA, in Britain, supposed more correctly Mida,

U placed in the Ravennas's Cltorogmphy among the

tov&s in the south of Britain. It has been con­

jectured that Midhurst, in Sussex, is its modern

representative; but this supposition is not warranted

bj existing remains. [C. R. S.]

M1CHMAS (MaxM«>, LXX.; Kaxfii, Joseph.,

Emeo.), a city of the tribe of Benjamin, eastward

from Bethel or Bethaven (1 Sam. xiii. 5), held by

the Philistines, while Saul and the Israelites were

in Gibeah. It was on the line of march of an in-

Tiding army from the north, and the Assyrians

ire represented as depositing their baggage there

wben advancing against Jerusalem. (Imiah, x. 28.)

It U placed by Eusebius and St. Jerome in tile bor­

ders of Aeha, and was then a considerable village,

retaining iu ancient name, 9 miles from Aelia,

tor Rama. (Onumcut. i. p.) The same descrip-

I»k exactly applies to it at the present day. It is

3 boon dirtant from Jerusalem, nearly due north.

Mikbna* stand* on a low ridge between two small

Vidra running south into the much larger valley

nimed Wudy et-Stcmit. It bears marks of having

fc<*n i much larger and stronger place thau any

in th« vicinity. There are many foundations of

bwTi stones, and some columns among thein. The

H adf u-Stcinti is "the Passage of Michmash"

fp*en of in 1 Samuel (xiii- 23), and Isaiah (x. 29).

It is an extremely steep and rugged valley, which

ommeoces in the neighbourhood of Bethel, and a

Istk below (E.) if&khmat contracts between per-

psiiculir precipices.

The rocks Bozez and Seneh, mentioned in con-

""M" with Jonathan's exploit (1 Sum. xiv. 4),

VOL U.

may still be recognised in two conical rocky knolls

projecting into the valley between Jeba' (ancient

Gibeah) and Mukhmas. (Robinson, Bill. lies. vol.

ii. pp. 116, 117.) In the Talmud the soil of Mich­

mash is celebrated for its fertility. (Reland, PaJues-

tina, s.v. p. 897.) [G. W.]

MIDAEIUM or MIDAIUM (MiSa.ioc) a town in

the NE. of Phrygia, on the little river Hathys, on

the road from Dorylaeum to Pcssinus, and belonging

to the conventus of Synnada. (Steph. B. 9. v.;

Plin. v. 32. a. 41; Ptol. v. 2. § 22; Strab. xii. p.

576; Hierocl. p. 678, where it is wrongly called

M*5cuoi\) The town, as its name indicates, must

have been built by one of the ancient kings of

Phrygia, and has become celebrated in history from

the fact that Sextus Poinpeius, the son of Pompey

the Great, was there taken prisoner by the generals

of M. Antony, find afterwards put to death. (Dion

Cass. xlix. 18.) It has been supposed, with some

probability, that the town of Mygdum, mentioned

by Aminianus Marcellinus (xxvi. 7), is the same as

Midaeium. [L. S.]

MIDEIA or MIDEA. 1. (MfSeia, Pnus.; M.JVa,

Strab.: Eth. MiSm'tt/i), an ancient city of the

Argeia, was originally called Persepolis (Tltpaias

irdAis, Steph. B. s. v. MiSeia), and is mentioned by

Apollodorus (ii. 4. § 4) in connection with this hero.

It was said to have derived its name from the wife

of Electryon, and was celebrated as the residence of

Electryon and the birthplace of his daughter Alc-

mena. (Paus. ii. 25. § 9; Schol. ad Piiul. 01. vii.

49.) But it is mentioned in the earliest division

of the country, along with the Heraeum and Tiryns,

as belonging to Proetus. (Paus. ii. 16. § 2.) It

was the residence of Hippodameia in her banish­

ment (Paus. vi. 20. § 7.) It was destroyed by

Argos, probably at the same time as Tiryns, soon

after the Persian wars. (Paus. viiL 27. § 1; Strab.

viii. p. 373.)

Strabo describes Midea as near Tiryns; and

from its mention by Pausanias, in connection

with the Heraeum and Tiryns, it must bo placed

on the eastern edge of the Argcian plain: but

the only clue to its exact position is the state­

ment of Pausanias, who says that, returning from

Tiryns into the road leading from Argos to Epi-

daurus, "you will reach Mideia on the leftM (ii.

25. § 9).

Two different sites have been assigned to

Mideia. The French Commission place it at the

Hellenic remains at Dendrd, h\ geographical miles

direct E. by N. from the citadel of Argos, as this

place lies to the left of the road from Arg(« to

Epidaurus. But Leake objects, that the distance

of Dtndrd from this road — more than 3 geogra­

phical miles — is greater than is implied by the

words of Pausanias. He therefore places Mideia

at the Hellenic remains near Katzingri, 2 geogra­

phical miles due E. of Tiryns. The objection to

the latter site is that it lies to the right of the

road from Argos to Epidaurus, from which it is

separated by a deep ravine. The ruins at Dtndra

stand upon a hill almost inaccessible on three sides,

enclosed by four different walls, one above another,

In one of them is a gateway formed of three pieces

of stone, resembling the smaller gateway of the

citadel of Mycenae. The ruins descend from the

summit to a fountain, which springs out of a grotto

near a chapel of the Panaglua. The surrounding

meadows afford good pasture for homos, and thus

illustrate the epithet of Statius (7Vi>4. iv. 44)

A A

