NAUPLIA. NAUPOKTUa 403

7W Hckwi War, n. c 455; and daring the |

i'ipBniji Wir it wu the head-quarters of the

A'.Yoim in >II their operations in Western Greece.

(tm.ii. !l §7; Thnc. i. 103, ii. 83, seq.)

A*nr tb« battle of Aegospotami the Messenians were

ojeW from Nupactus, and the Locrians regained

?~im of lie lawn. (Pans. x. 38. § 10.) It

terms pueed into the hands of the Achaeans,

ffn whan, borerer, it was wrested by Epami-

aata. (Hod. it. 75.) Philip gave it to the

Mn (Scab. ix. p. 427; Dem. PhU. iii. p. 120),

ol sate it is frequently called a town of Aetolia.

[vHu. a 14; Mela, ii. 3; I'lin. iv. 2. s. 3.) The

li-.lvt Tinnmily defended Naupactus against the

fa t»o months in b. c. 191. (Liv. xxxvi.

Hm.; htjtxj. 103.) Ptolemy (iii. 15. § 3)

« »town of tbe Locri Oxolae, to whom it must

Wn hire been assigned by the Romans after

ft." i time,

roasti m* it Naupactus a temple of Poseidon

* th<«». t temple of Artemis, a cave sacred to  
fcenttt. ud the rains of a temple of Asclcpins

*• {j 12, 13). Nanpactos is mentioned by  
E»" la (p. 643); bat it was destroyed by an earth-

c tie reign of Justinian. (Procop. B. Goth.

* C) lie litoation and present appearance of  
fc'jram tins described by Leake:-" The for-

»ai aid im occupy the sooth-eastern and southern

**> 4 • «JL which is one of the roots of Mount  
•V". «si reaches down to the sea. The place it

a the manner which waa common among

■revival in positions similar to that of E'palcta,

»to ay, it occupies a triangular slope with

>iaU at the apex, and one or more cross walls on

""?e. amdiag it into subordinate enclosures.

* •' there are no less than five enclosures  
and the sea, with gates of com-

from tbe one to the other, and a side gate

'■a* •«£ leading out of the fortress from the

ore on the descent. It is not improbable

, wdara walls follow exactly the ancient plan

'ensa, for in many parts they stand upon

i uiaiions, and eren retain large pieces of

nidat the modern work. The

only the lowest enclosure; in

•f which is tbe small harbour which made

> Srere in ancient history: it is now choked

is incapable of receiving even the

■wt of boats which navigate the gulf."

, "» Grme, vol. ii. p. 608.)

JWTUA (NavwAla), a rock above Delphi.

* 7«. a.]

■afrlU NmXia: EtA. NawXin!j). the

^Ara. *m litoatrd upon a rocky peninsula,

■ita the mainland by a narrow isthmus.

•* "wr saciait place, and is said to have de-

P*"a»» from Naupiius, the son of Poseidon

raw*, sad the fattier of Palamedes, though

farjaUy owed its name, as Strabo has ob-

t» hi harbour (fao rov reus yawl rpo-

Soafc. vBL p. 368; Pans. ii. 38. § 2.)

iKsi u> that tbe Nftuplians were Egypt-

to the colony which Danaus brought

3i § 2); and from the position of their

7** s prauHfittaT running out into the sea,

a ^sk 6ffrmrt from the site of the earlier

■ ttam, it a not improbable that it was

* > ■Olement made by strangers from the  
•araaa waa at first independent of Argos,

1 tejier of the maritime confederacy which

kt aaauap a> the ialand of CaXanreia. (Strab.

viii. p. 374.) About the time of the Second Mes -

senian War, it was conquered by the Argives; and

tbe Lacedaemonians gave to its expelled citizens the

town of Methone in Messenia, where they continued

to reside even after the restoration of the Messenian

state by Epaminondas. (Pans. iv. 24. § 4, iv. 27.

§ 8, iv. 35. § 2.) Argos now took the piace of

Nauplia in the Calaureian confederacy; and from this

time Nauplia appears in history only as the seaport

of Argos (o tiavwKios \turiv, Eurip. Orat. 767;

AijitVei NaiVirAioi, EUctr. 451). As such it is

mentioned by Strabo (i c), but in the time of Pau-

sanias the place was deserted. Pausanias noticed

the ruins of the walls of a temple of Poseidon, certain

forts, and a fountain named Canathus, by washing

in which Hera was said to have renewed her vir­

ginity every year. (Pans. ii. 38. § 2.)

In the middle ages Nauplia was called to Nati-

irXiof, to 'AyAir\ioy, or ra 'ArawAia, but has now

resumed its ancient name. It became a place of

considerable importance in the middle ages, and has

continued so down to the present day. In the time

of the Crusades it first emerges from obscurity. In

1205 it was taken by the Franks, and became the

capital of a small duchy, which commanded the plain

of Argos. Towards the end of the 14th century it

came into the hands of the Venetians, who regarded

it as one of their most important places in the Le­

vant, and who successfully defended it both against

Mahomet II. and Soliman. They ceded it to the

Turks in 1540, but wrested it from them again in

1686, when they constructed the strong fortifications

on bit. PalamidhL This fortress, although, reckoned

impregnable, was stormed by the Turks in 1715, in

whose hands it remained till the outbreak of the

war of Grecian independence. It then became the

seat of the Greek government, and continued such,

till the king of Greece removed bis residence to

Athens in 1834.

The modem town Is described by a recent ob­

server as having more the air of a real town than

any place now existing in Greece under that title;

having continuous lines of houses and streets, and

offering, upon the whole, much tbe appearance of a

second-rate Italian seaport. It is built on the

peninsula; and some remains of the Hellenic fortifi­

cations may be seen in the site of the walls of Fort

Ittkali, which is the lower citadel of the town, and

occupies the site of the ancient Acropolis. The

upper citadel, called Palamidki (tlaAapTjoW). is

situated upon a steep and lofty mountain, and is one

of the strongest fortresses In Europe. Although its

name is not mentioned by any ancient writer, there

can be little doubt, from the connection of Palamedes

with the ancient town, that this was the appellation

of the hill in ancient times. (Leake, Mono, vol. it

p. 356, Pdopoimuiaca, p. 252; Mure, Tour in

Grace, vol. ii. p. 187; Boblaye, Rechercha, d/c.

p. 50; Curtius. Pelopomtaos, vol. ii. p. 389.)

NAUPOBTUS (Naifiroproi). 1. (Laybach), a

small but navigable river in tbe south-west of

Pannonia, flowing by the town of Nauportus, and

emptying itself into the Savns a little below Ae-

mona. (Strab. iv. p. 207, comp vii. p. 314, where

some read Nowtoktos; Plin. iii. 23.)

2. A town in tbe south-west of Pannonia, on the

small river of the same name, was an ancient and

once flourishing commercial town of the Taurisci,

which carried on considerable commerce with Aqui-

leia. (Strab. vii. p. 314; Tac Arm. i. 10; Plin

iii. 22; Veil. Paterc il 110.) But after the

D D 2

