842 ROMA. ROMA.

nemusqnod navali stagno circumposuit Augustus,"

Ann. XIV. 15). There are several passages which

show that the lake existed lone; after the time of

Augustus. Thus Statiu.s (Stlv. iv, 4. 5): —

"Cootinao dextraa flavi pete Tybridis ons,

Lydia qua penitus stag num. navale coercet

Kipa, suburbanisque vadum praetexitur bortis.''

This passage likewise confirms the situation of the

lake on the right, or Etruscan, bunk (Lydia ripa)

with the Nemus round it (ef. Suet. Tib. 72). It

was used by Titus to exhibit a nnumachui (Suet.!

Tit. 7; Dion Cass. /. c): and remains of it were

visible even in the time of Alexander Severus (Id.

lv. 10). Although the pa-sage in the Afonmmentum

Anrt/rnnum in which Augustus mentions this lake

or basin is rather mutilated, we may make out

that it was 1800 feet long by 1200 broad.

The Notitia mentions five Naumachiak in the

14th Region, but the number is probablj corrupt,

and wc should read two. (Prcller, AVyiVww, p. 206.)

We know at all events that Domitian also made a

basin for ship-fights in the Tr&natiberine district.

(Suet. Dom.4.) The stone of which it was const ructed

was subsequently employed to repair the Circus

Maxim us (lb. 5). That it was in anew situation

appears from Dion Ca&sius («V kcuvw nvi xotp'ty.

latvii. 8). It probably lay under the Vatican, since St.

Peter's was designated in the middle ages as "apud

Naumacbiam." (Flav. Blond. Institur. A', i. 24:

Anastas. V. Leo. ///.p. 300, Blanch.; Montf. h'tar.

JtaL p. 291.) The naumachin a.scribcd to the em­

peror Philip (Aur. Vict. Ca&s. 28) was perhaps

only a restoration of this, or of that of Augustus.

Amont: other objects in the district of the Jani-

eulum, we need only mention the HoKTl GetaE

and the Castka Lkctic A RIORUM* The former

were prolwibly founded by Septimius Severus. and

inherited by bis son Geta. We know at alt events that

Severus founded some baths in this iknd ISkSL

8epL See. 19; cf. Becker, dc Jfw, p. 117) sd

the arch called Pokta Skftixlv5a; od it sV

wise appears that he purchased sou* iirpcaasf

before his departure into Germany, (Start./itfj

The I^ecticarii were either sediii-chnrtm.»

employed to carry biers, and their mUrt ■

nothing more than a station for them, jnl ■

hear of the Castra Tabellariormn, Yicua

&c. (Preller, Rtgitjnen, p. 21$.)

The Mcns or Coi.uis Vaticaxu ri*eu

the NW. of the Mons Janiculos. from wkkafl

separated only by a narrow valky. no* lalrlf

ferno> The origin of the name of this

present the most famous in Rime. sbjbjS) M

mined. The most common dentition J it ■ I

story that the Romans gained p«v^i«c/al|

theEtru>cans through an oracular repf-ose^T

responso expulsis Etruscis," Paul. Disc a>

We have already remarked that there a a»|

for Niebuhr's assumption respecting the 'u

here of an Etmsean city called Vatican Ksf

[>ee p. 724]. This district belonged stiil I

the .Taniculum to the city, and iru not **■ i

in the walls of Aurelian. It was noted far

healthy air (Tac. U. ii. 93), its

(Cic. de Leg. Ayr. ii. 35), and its exi

(" Vaticana bibis, bibis venenum," aUtl ii.

cf. x. 45.) In the Republican time* tat

beautifully told by Livy (iii. 26) of tbt p

tator L. Quinctius Cincinnatus who vat

dictator here whilst cultivating his firm 4

acre-, the Pkata Qcinctia, lends the only i

to the scene, whether it may belong to tbt I

of history or not. There were no bmiiinfi

quarter before the time of the emperors asl

the only one of any note in all aatwatf

sepulchre—the Mai solki m or Mi les

DOW the CasteUo di S. Angelo. (DiunCask

MOLE OF IIADKIAX RESTC

Spart fTadr. 19.) Anions the ancient notices of it

the most important is that of Procopius. (B. G.

i. 22. p. 106. ed. Bonn.) A complete history of

it is given by Bunsen (Buckr. vol. ii. p. 404, scq.),

and descriptions will be found in all the guide-books.

Hadrian's mausoleum was the tomb of the follow inc

emperors and their families, certainly nil t

of Commodus. and perhaps till that of Caa

Becker Handb. note 1430). It was baft j

Hoicti Domitiae (Capitol. Ant P. 5\ifi

understand the word colloctuit in thai

an actual entombment, and Dot vf a

