354 PARTHENOPfi. PARYADKES.

//. ii. 854 : Hes. Theog. 344; Herod, ii. 104; Xenoph.

Anab. v. G. § 9, vi. 2. § 1; Strati, xii. p. 543; Ptol.

t. I. § 7; Arri.ni, Parlpl, p. 14; Stcph. B. s. v., who

erroneously states that the river flowed through the

middle of the town of A mas tr is; Ov. Ex Pont. ir.

10. 49; Amin. Marc, xxii. 9.) [L. S.]

PARTHE'NOPE. [Nkafous.]

PA'RTHIA (v I\aP0va(a. St rah. xi. pp. 514.515,

Sec.: v UafOvrifi}, Polyb. x. 28; Stepli. B.jr. r.; Curt.v.

12; UapHiu, Ptol. vi. 5. § 1: Parthta, I'iin. vi. 15. s.

1 6), originally a small district of Western Asia, shut

in on all sides by either mountains or deserts. It was

hounded on the W. by .Media Atropatene, on the N.

by Hyreania, on the K. by Ariana and M. Masdo-

ranus, and on the S. by Carmania Deserta, M. Pura-

choathras, and Persis. It comprehended, therefore,

the southern part of Khurasan, almost all KohUtan,

and some portion ot' the great Salt Desert, It was

for tlin most part a mountainous and rugged district.

The principal mountains were the Labns or Labutas

(probably part of the great range now known by the

name of the ElHurz Mts.), tbe Paracho&thras (or

Etwend)f and the Masdoranus. Tbe few rivers

which it possessed were little more than mountain

streams, liable to violent and sudden floods on the

melting of the snow, but nearly dry during the

summer: the only names which have been recorded

of these streams are, the Zioberis or Stiboetcs, the

Rhidagus, and the Choatres. The principal divi­

sions of the land were into Camisene, on the north:

Parthyene, to the SVV. of Camisene, extending along

the edge of the Caspian Sea, as far as the Caspian

dates, a district which some have supposed to have

been the original seat of the population, and that

from which the whole country derived its name;

Choarene, the western portion of the land, and for

the most part a fruitful valley along the frontiers of

Media; Apavarctene, to the S.; and Tahiene, along

the borders of Carmania Deserta. There were no

great towns in Parthia, properly so called, but his­

tory has preserved the names of a few which played

an important part at different periods: of these, the

best known were Hecatompolls, the chief town of the

Parthians, and the royal residence of tbe dynasty of

the Arsacidae, and Apatneia Rhagiana.

Little is known of 1'ai lhian history at an early

period; and it is probable that it was subject to the

great empire of Persia, and subsequently to the first

successors of Alexander, till the tirst Arsaees threw

oil* the Syro-Macedonian rule, and established a

native dynasty on the throne of Parthia in b. c. 256.

Prom this period it grew rapidly more powerful, till,

on the final decay of the house of titc Seleuctdae,

flic Arsacidan dynasty possessed the rule of the

greater part of Western Asia. Their long wars with

the Romans are well known: no Eastern race was

able to make so effectual a resistance to the advance

of the Roman arms, or vindicated with more con­

stancy and determination their natural freedom.

The overthrow of Crassus, n. <;. 53, showed what

even the undisciplined Parthian troops could do

when fighting fur freedom. (Dion Cuss. xl. 21.)

Subsequent to this, tbe Romans were occasionally

huecessful. Thus, in a. i>. 34, Vonones was .sent as

a hostage to Rome (Tacit. Annnl ii. 1); and

finally the greater part of the country was sub­

dued, successively, by the anus of Trajan, by An­

toninus, and Caracal la, till, at length, the rise of the

new Sussaniun, or native dynasty of Persia, under

the command of Artaxerxcs 1. put an end to tbe

house of Arsaees (a, i>. 226). Subsequent to tins

period there is a constant confusion is %s&rf,

authors between Persians and Parthians. TW

tory of the Parthian kings is given at length is

Dtct. of Biog. Vol. L p. 353, seq.

The inhabitants of Parthia were called Parti.Tifl

{UapOveuot, Polyb. x. 31: Strab. xi. p. 509; Arm

Aruib. iii.21; Ptol. iii. 13. §41) or Pirthi (Iliffci

Herod, iii. 93; Strab. xi. p. 624; Plin. vi. JS.1.M

A mm, Marc xx'iii. 6), and were, 10 ail pfUaiio'i

one of the many branches of the great I&»0e!

manic family of nations. Their own tragus \;

indeed, faithfully reported) was that they cm m

of Scythia — for they were wont to say tiui I'lrua

meant exile in the Scythian tongue. (Jusita,

Herodotus, too, classes them with the p»nJ» <

Chorasmia and Sag di ana (iii. 39. vii. 66): «*j ."<nl

admits that their manners resembled th;jw oS d

Scythians (xi. p. 515). On the other band. awo*

research has demonstrated their direct odUKCta* *i

the Iranian tribes; their name is fouud in the 2<«

to be Pardtt, in the Sanscrit Parana. (Bam

Revieioof Wilson's Ariana, Berl. Jaurb. iMi S

107.) According to Strabo, who quotes P<*io.*it*i

bis authority,the Parthians were governed bi tc«l

council, comj)«>sed of the nobles or relative d I

king (according as tlte reading tvytvitif « ft

ytvmv be adopted), and of the Magians (xi p.H

As a nation, they were famous for their saiii a I

management of tlie horse and for thnr to* <i'

bow (Dion Cass, xl 15, 22; Dionra, 1045; PI

Crass, c. 24). and for the peculiar art wtnen d

practised in shooting with the bow from ber*fc

when retreating. This peculiarity is repeal

noticed bv the Roman p<ets. (Virg. Gevrg. nil

Horat. Carm. i. 19. 11, ii. 13. 17; Oid. J^*

i. 209.) In tlieir treatment of their kian

nobles they were considered to carry ther *8

tion even beyond the nsual Orient:il excess. (V

Georq. iv. 211; Martial, Epigr. x. 72,1 — 5 ) {

PARTHPNT. [Paktiikm ]

PAR I HUM (UdpBov or nd^ut, A;r n J

viii. 39). a town in the jurisdiction of CartMl

the neighbourhood of Zaina. [T. H_U

PARTHUS, in Ulvricum. [Parthkm.]

PARU& [Pabos,]

PARUTAE (Uapoinat. Ptol. vi. 17- § SJ. »1

placed by Ptolemy on the outskirts of tfc* t

pamisus in Ariana. It is probable that tbe* a

derive their name from the Sanscrit Parrmia, a

ing mountain tribes.

PARYADRES (UapvdSprjs. Uaovdfi^, *r II

dpfajs), a range of lofty and rugired tDuusUi>il

north of Puntua, which is connected mih U

Taurus and Mount Caucasus (Strab. si. a.

xii. p, 54S; Plin. v. 27, vi. 9. 11). It cxr-r-a

at the western extremity of the Monte* ii**

proceeds in a south-western direction rou»d 1%

ami there forms the frontier bet w era ArnaEfu

Cappadocia, A more southern branch of ii»

mountain is the Scordisea. Ptolemy (t, 13, i,;

docribes this mountain as containing the> soan

the Euphrates and A rases, and acotrdicg-N ux

within its range Mount Abus, fn-ra hLj.?; i

make those rivers tlow. The Paryaarea **f~l-*t

sources of only small rivers, of which tbe lar?

the Absarus. The mountain was in ujot-

thickly covered with wood, and tar s»f*BLAi»«i

and about it consisted of rubbers (ixrao. a£ ji

Many parts of the mountain arr exTmnrit n

and almost inaccessible, whence MithrMfcxte* j

tus built many of his tn.'.-uure-housca

