8.r>6 kubicow HUAD1TAK.

Schafarik (Slav. Alt. vol. i. p. 342), reeeieed their

appellation from the Sarmatian " Kaxa."—perhaps

the Yuhja or some other river in their settle*

menU. [E.»B. J.]

RUADITAE. [Marmarioa, p. 278, a.]

RUB I (EtK, 'PvSatrTetvfc, Rubastinus: Jim-o), a

city of Apulia, situated on the branch of the Appian

Way between Canusia and Butunturn, and about

10 miles distant from the sea-coast. It is men­

tioned by Horace, as one of tlie places where Mae­

cenas and his companion) slept on the journey from

Rome to Brundusium. (Hor. Sut. I. 94.) Tlic

distance from Canusium is given as 23 miles in tlie

Antonine Itinerary, and 30 in the Jerusalem Itine­

rary, which is the more correct, the direct distance

on the map being above 28 miles, (/tin. Ant. p.

116; /tin. 1/ter. p. CIO.) Neither Strabo nor Pto­

lemy notices the existence of Rubi, but the inhabi­

tants are mentioned under the name of Rubustini by

Pliny, among the municipal towns of Apulia, and

the " Rubustinus Ager" is enumerated in the Liber

Coloniarum among the lt Civitates Apuliae." (Plin,

iii. ll.s.16; Lib. Colon, p. 262.) An inscription also

attests the municipal rank of llubi in the reign of the

younger Gordian. (Mommsen, /aver. R. N. C24.)

The singular ethnic form given by Pliny is confirmed

by the evidence of coins which have the nameP\ BA2-

TEINAN at full. These coins show also that Rubi

must have received a considerable amount of Greek

influence and cultivation; and this is still more

Strongly confirmed by the discoveries which have

been recently made by excavations there of numerous

works of Greek art in bronze and terra cotta, as well

as of vast numbers of painted vases, of great variety

an<l beauty. These, however, like all the Others

found in Apulia and I.ucania, are i>f inferior execu­

tion, and show a declining state of art as compared

with those of Nola or Volci. All these objects have

heen discovered in tombs, and in some instances the

walls of the tombs themselves have been found co­

vered with paintings. (Romanelli, vol. u. p. 172;

BuUett. A W Inst. A rch. 1829, p. 173, 1834, pp. 36,

164, 228,&c.) The modern town of Huvo is still a

considerable place, with an episcopal see. [E.H.B.]

COIN OF RUBI.

RUBICON ('PouSIku-v), a small river on the K.

coast of Italy, flowing into the Adriatic sea, a lew

miles N. of Atiminum. It was a trifling stream,

one of the least considerable of the numerous rivers

that in this part of Italy have their rise in the

Apennines, and discharge their waters into the

Adriatic; but it derived some importance from its

having firmed the boundary between Umbria, or the

part of the Gaulish territory included in that pro­

vince, and Cisalpine Gaul, properly so called. Hence,

when the limits of Italy were considered to extend

only t<» the frontiers ot Cisalpine Gaul, the Rubicon

became on this side the northern boundary of Italy.

(Strab. v. p. 217; Plin. iii. 15. s. 20; Lucan. i. 215.)

This was the state of things at the outbreak of the

Civil War between Caesar and Pompey: Cisalpine

Gaul was included in the government of the former,

and tlie Rubicon was therefore the limit of his pro­

vince; it was this which rendered the jwtssage of

this trifling stream so momentous in erent, Vt t

was, in fact, the declaration of war. Caeai

makes no mention of its passage, and it a

to believe that he would have «t out on bis

from Ravenna without being folly prepared W ai>

vanes to Ariminam; but the well-known

his halt on its banks, his hesitation and

decision, is related in detail by SoeUcda? and

larch, as well as by Lucan, and lu* girenap^s*

bial celebrity to the name of the Ruwwa. Cf

Com 31; Plut Cam. 32; Appian. B. C il

Lucan, i. 185, 213—227.) The river is

by Cicero a few years later as the frontier of

and M. Antonius was ordered by a decrai

senate to withdraw his army across the Cibiese,

a proof that he abandoned his desipns i* tbi

iah province. (Cic. PhiLxi. 3.) Srrabo rtfll

the Rubicon the limit between Gallia Cisal

I'mhria; but this seems to have been alt

division of Italy by Augustus; and thnorj

alludes to the liubicon as M quondam fini*

lie includes Aiiminum and its territory as

the river Crustumius, in the 8thReei«oor

Cispadana, (Plin. I.e.: PtoL iii. I. §23.)"

however, was not forgotten; it Is m| foa

Tabula, which places it 12 miles from

(Tab, Pent,}, and is mentioned by Sidon

naris. (Kp. \. 5.) Hut in the middle ag

of it seems to have been lost ; even the

of Ravenna does not notice it,

proximity to his native city.

In modern times the identical ion of

bra ted stream lias been tbe subject of n

troversy, and cannot yet be considered

determined. But Uie question lies within

row compass. We know with certainty

liubicon was intermediate between A

Ravenna, and between the rivers SapU(&xi

tiowed some miles S. of the latter, and tbe

or Marecchia, which wa.s immediately t«

the former city. Between these two fv

two streams now enter the Adriatic

short distance of each other. Tbe sou

these is called the Luso or Ltua, a

stream, which crosses the hi git-road from

Ravenna about 10 miles from tbe f'jnner

short distance further N. the tame road

stream now called Fiutnicino, which ■

by the united waters of three small at

rents, the most considerable of which i> t

(the uppermost of the three); the other

Rhjosa or Rvjone, called also, according

writers, the Ruyone, and the /Yum, called

Piumicino. These names are those

best old maps as well as Baden ones. e»-

the Atlas of Magini, published in 1620,

accordance with the statements of tbe

on Italian topography, FLavio Biondo

Alberti. Cluverius, however, calls the

stream the Rugone, and the ooe w

Pitafelh. This point is, however. «f

portance, if it be certain thai the two

united their waters as they do at the

before reaching the sea. The qu»tW«

between the Luso and the Fmmicmo.

being the outlet both of the Rmgame

Ullo. A papal bull, issued in 1756,

favour of the Lwoy which has. in

since commonly termed the Rubicon^

called by the ]>casants on its"

But it is evident that

, within I

