EOMA. 793

rsf a tinted terrace, presenting the segment of

nrrie, which tu excavated at this part of the

rara anew reus ago, is the actual rostra (Indi-

i&mr, p. 270, ed. 1850, and his Dissertation "5u>

.arn* del Furo Romano*' in the Atti dell Acca-

Bowk, rfi Airheologia, viii. p. 107, seq.; cf.

- ier. I/ailbwh, p. 359). It seems also to have  
-i her* that Augustus received tl« homage of  
tu. when the latter was celebrating his German

Exopn: "Ac priusqnam in Capitolium flecteret,

e curru, seque praeaidenti patri ad genua

'(Suet Tib. 20.) The scene is represented

Lurr Vienna Cameo. (Eckhel, Pierres gra-

ra, I; Miaifrl. lconogr. Rom. 1 9, vol. ii. p. 62.)

that inferences are just the ancient rostra wonld

f-nr to have been used occasionally after the erec-

V the new ones.

The Statues or Sulla asd Pompkt, of which

^mwr appears to have been a gilt equestrian one,

"rr-erect*J near the new rostra, as they had for-

rty stood by the old ones. After the battle of Pilar­

is they were both removed, but Caesar replaced

Besides these there were two Statues of

!• (a. and an equestrian StatI'k of Octavian.

<m Caaa. 18, xliii. 49, xliv. 4; Suet. Cow.

App. B.C. I 97.)

'aw alao began the large basilica on the S. side

br fcram, called after him the Basilica Julia;

ie moat of* his other works, he left it to be

.■-c by Augustus (" Forum Julium et Basilicam

f fail inter aedem Castoris et aedem Satumi,

prgbcataqtie opera a patre meo perfeci,** Mim.

y ). lis situation is here so accurately fixed

that it cannot possibly he mistaken, namely, between

the temple of Saturn, which, as we have seen, stood

at the head of the forum, and the temple of Castor,

which lay near that of Vesta; and the Notitia indi­

cates the same position; so that it must have been

Bituatcd between the Vicus Jugarius and Vicus

Tuscus. It has been seen before that this was the

site of the ancient Basilica Sempronia, a building of

which we hear no more during the imperial times;

whence it seems probable that it was either pulled

down by Caesar in order to erect his new basilica

upon the site, or that it had previously gone to ruin.

And this is confirmed by the fact that, in the exca­

vations made in 1780, it was ascertained that the

basilica was erected upon another ancient foundation,

which Canina erroneously supposes to have been that

of the comitium. (Fredenheim^irpose* tTtme Decott-

verte faite dang It Forum Romain, Strasbourg, 1796;

Fea, Varietit di Sotizie e deUa Basilica Giulia ed

alcuni Siti del Foro Romano, ap. Canina, Foro Ro­

mano, p. 118.) In some excavations made in 1835

near the column of Phocas, another proof of the sito

of the basilica was discovered. It was the following

fragment of an inscription, which taken by itself

seems too mangled and imperfect to prove anything:

. . . A . . . ASILICA . . . ER REPARATAE . . . SKT

adikcit. It was recollected, however, that this

must be the fragment of an inscription discovered

in the 16th century at this spot, which is recorded

by Gruter (clxxi. 7) and by Panvinius in his De-

gcriplio Urbig Romae (Graevius, iii. p 300). The

two inscriptions, when put in juxta-position, appear

as follows :—

A . .

ASIIJCA

o doobt that they were the same.

JeW lmtt. Marzo, 1835) Panvinius,

> wark wma written in 1558, as appears from

Kt atorr epistle, says that the inscription was

: • ^auiio ante in foro Romano prope columnam,"

a. the *iA*rT'm of Phocas. The basis on which

a! an*t therefore have been again covered with

db. tiQ the inscription was re-discovered in its

injarferl form after a lapse of nearly three

■as. ArmliDUs and Pronto were consuls A. I>.

arj ranaeqoently in the reign of Septimius

a, when thai basilica appears to have been

twher. therefore, the site of the basilica may

a-, vred aa better ascertained than these of

« 'be imperfect monuments. It must have

. m.W on the E- *»' W"., like the basilica

- s», br the Vicua Tuscus and the Vicus  
It a; pe»ra from the Monument urn Ancy-

I that the original building, begun by Caesar,

br Augustas, was burnt down during

;, ,.( tbe'latter, and again rebuilt by him on

^ witii the design that it should be

in the Ejunea of his grandsons Caius and

I (* Et aandefli batailicarn consumptam'

OABINIUS VKTTIV9

I'KOBIAMUS . V. C. TRAEF. VBB

BTATUAM QVAE BA8ILICAE

IVLIAE A SE NOVITER

REPAKATAB . OrtNAMKNTO

E8SET ADIKCIT

KEDIC . XV. KAL . FEURVARI

PVBUCORVM

CORNELIO ANNVL1NO fi

KT. AVFID . FKONTONE

( OS.

sab titulo nominis filiorum

I [meorum] inchoavi et, si vivus non perfecissem,

perfici ab heredibus [meis jussi]." But, from a

supplement of the same inscription recently disco­

vered, it appears that Augustus lived to complete

the work (" Opera fecit nova—forum Augustum, Ba­

silicam Juliam," etc.; Franz, in Gerhard's Archiiolog.

Zeit. No. ii. 1843). Nevertheless it seems to have

anciently borne the names of bis grandsons: *' Quae-

dam etiam opera sub nomine alieno, nepotum scilicet

et uxoris sororisque fecit: ut porticum bosilicamque

Lucii et Caii, &c." (Suet. Aug. 29). The addition

which Augustus mentions having made to the

building (•' ampliato ejus solo ") may probably have

been the portico here mentioned. In A. v. 282

it was again destroyed by fire, and was rebuilt by

Diocletian (Calui Imp. Vienn. p. 247, Rene.)

The Basilica Julia was chiefly used for the sittings

of law-courts, and especially for the causae centum-

virales (Plin. Kput. v. 21, ii. 14.) Its immense size

may be inferred from another passage in Pliny (vi.,13),

from which we learn that 180 judices, divided intq

4 concilia, or courts, with 4 separate tribunals, and

numerous benches of advocates, besides a large con­

course of spectators, both men and women,were accus­

tomed to assemble here. Tbe 4 tribunals are also

mentioned by Quintilian (/n. Or. xii. 5, 6J. .

