MYCEXAE. 3b 3 MYGDONES.

t-tagik with elegance in the happiest proportions.

fU Mba of both are slender in comparison with

u* ml of the figure, especially of the one on the

ait of the beholder. The muscles, sinews, and

>arv though little detailed, are indicated with

r-sra spirit. The finish, both in a mechanical and

inatiai paint of view, is excellent; and in passing

Ut load over the surface, one is struck with the

<c*u aid easy blending of the masses in every

ftam of the figure." (Mure, vol. ii. p. 171.)

Ucades the great Gate of Lions, there was a

nssikr gate or postern on the northern side of the

ito pjhs, the approach to which was fortified in

iuih mariner as that leading to the great gate,

ii » nutroctad of three great stones, and is 5 feet

i .itim vide at the top.

.W the Gate of Lions the wall of the lower

11.7 rasy be traced, extending from N. to S. In

J k»er ton are four subterraneous buildings,

*Left are evidently the same as those described by  
i itiih, in which the Atreidae deposited their

»»kct». Of these the largest, called by the learned

tat* Tnasnry ef Atreus," and by the Greek ciceroni

— "Gave of Agamemnon," is situated under the

•jsrfvct which now conveys the water from the

c-va •» the north em side of the Acropolis to the

<~aetJ Kharrdii (See Plan, C.) This building

■i a nearly a perfect state of preservation. It is

1 by a passage now in ruins, and contains

The passage leads into a large

r of a conical form, about 50 feet in width

sad 40 m height; and in this chamber there is a

**r»»T leading into a small interior apartment,  
"x mend-plan and a section of the building are

m the Ilia, of Antiq. p. 1127. The doorway

*- acsmg the passage, which leads into the large  
'tester, is 6 feel 6 inches wide at the top, widen-

■t s kale cram thence to the bottom. "On the

~-'-*M teiore each door-post stood a semi-column,

Ji{ a base and capital not unlike the Tuscan

enriched with a very elegant

, chiefly in a zigzag form, which

in vertical compartments over the

~m »iaft. Those ornaments have not the smallest

to anything else found in Greece, but

osy have s-ane similitude to the Persepolitan style

'et^enre." (Leake, Morea, voL ii. p. 374.) There

rauu of a second subterraneous building near

s 'taLt ef Uuos (Plan, D); and those of the two

£-p=r> arc bwer down the hill towards the west.

considerable discussion among

> arholan respecting the purpose of those sub-

t/uikiinfa. The statement of Pausanius,

aaa tatey were the treasuries of the Atreidae, wag

«ui accepted, till Mure published an essay in

Jtkcmuda lfwrvn fur 1839 (vol. vi. p. 240),

s Basest he endeavoured to establish that all such

were the family vaults of the ancient

by wham I bey were constructed. In the

. ediare at Mycenae he supposes the inner apart-

Mat V- base been the burial-place, and the outer

■at* law heraum or sanctuary of the deceased. This

■aaaa* baa been adopted by most modern scholars,

■ft had iara combated by Leake, who ndheres to

~J* a«sa«: doctrine. (I'tkrycmuiura, p. 256.) The

■* awun may, however, be to some extent recon-

■%at w« •apjetitc that the inner cluuuhcr was the

tsrm- /l»t, sad that the outer contained the arms,

1 ■■i*. aai other ornaments most prized by the de-

•nwawL. h *u the practice among the Greeks in all

mm iar tx dead to carry with them to their tombs

a portion of their property; and in the heroic ages

the burial-places of the powerful rulers of Mycenae

mar have been adorned with such splendour that

the name of Treasuries was given to their tombs.

There is, indeed, good reason for believing, from the,

remains of brazen nails found in the large chamber

of the "Treasury of Atreus," that the interior sur­

face of the chamber was covered with brazen plates.

At the foot of the lower town stands the modern

village of Kharvati. (Leake, Alorea, vol. ii. p. 365,

seq.; Mure, Tour n> Greece, voL ii. p. 163, seq.)

Curtius, Pelopounaot, vol. ii. p. 400, seq.)

MYCE'NI. [Mauretasia.]

MYCHCS. [Buus.]

MY'CONUS (MiWos: Eft. Mwdwor: ilyko-

no), a small island in the Aegaean sea, lying E. of

Delos, and N. of Naxos. Pliny says (iv. 12. s. 22)

that it is 15 miles from Delos, which is much greater

than the real distance; but Scylax (p. 55) more

correctly describes it as 40 stadia from Rheneia, the

island W. of Delos, Myconus is about 10 miles in

length, and 6 in its greatest breadth. It is in most

parts a barren rock, whence Ovid gives it the epithet

of hwnilit {Met. vii. 463); and the inhabitants had in.

antiquity a bad reputation on account of their ava­

rice and meanness (Allien, i. p. 7 ; hence the pro­

verb MvxoViof ydruv, Zenob. l'rov. v. 21; Suidas,

Uesch., Phot.). The rocks of Myconus are granite,

and the summits of the hills are strewn with im­

mense blocks of this stone. This circumstance

probably gave rise to the fable that the giants sub­

dued by Hercules lay under Myconus; whence came

the proverb, " to put all things under Myconus,"

applied to those who ranged under one class things

naturally separate. (Strab. x. p. 487; Steph. B.

i. ».) The tomb of the Locrian Ajax was also

shown at Myconus. (Tzetz. ad Lycophr. 401.) Of

the history of the island we have no account, except

the statement that it was colonised from Athens, by

the Nelide Hippocles. (Zenob. v. 17; SckoL ad

IHonye. Per. ap. Geogr. Min. vol. iv. p. 37, Hud­

son.) Myconus is mentioned incidentally by Hero­

dotus (vi. 118) and Thucydides (iii. 29). Ancient

writers relate, as one of the peculiarities of Myco­

nus, that the inhabitants lost their hair at an early

age. (Strab. /. c.; Plin. xi. 37. s. 47; " Myconi

calva omnia juvenilis," Don.it. ad Ter. Ilecyr. iii. 4.

19.) The highest mountain, which is in the northern

part of the island, has a summit with two peaks,

whence it is called Dimastus by Pliny (iv. 12. s. 22).

The promontory of PiionniA (4>op£/a, Ptol. iii. 15.

§ 29) was probably on the eastern side of the

island. Scylax mentions two cities (Miwwos, aSrn

5/toAis, p. 22). Of these one called Myconus

occupied the site of the modern town, which presents,

however, scarcely any ancient remains. The name

and position of the other town are unknown. The

coins of Myconus are rare; and in general very few

remains of antiquity are found in any part of the

island, (lioss, Reuen auf den Griechucien lutein,

vol. ii. p. 28, seq.)

MY'GDONES (Mi/yJowj), a tribe dwelling in

Bithynia, about the river Odrysses and the coast of

the Propontis, but extending into Mysia, where they

occupied the district about Mount Olympus and

lake Doscylitis. They had immigrated into Asia

Minor from Thrace, but were afterwards subdued

or expelled by the Bithynians. (Strab. vii. p. 295,

xii. pp. 564, 575.) The district inhabited by them

was called Mygdonin. (Strab. xii. pp. 550, 558, 576;

Plin. v. 41; Solin. 40, 42.) [L. S.]

