MELAS SINUS. MELIBOEA. 319

name answering to the ancient Melas, Kara-Su,

that is, the Black River.

2. A navigable river in Pamphylia, flowing in a

southern direction from Mount Taurus towards the

tea, into which it emptied itself 50 stadia to the

east of Side. (Plin. v. 22; Strab. xiv. p. 667; Paus.

viii. 28. § 2; Mela, i. 14; Zosim. v. 16, vi. 3; Sta-

diam. Mar. Magn. §§ 193,194.) Its modern name

is Mexaryai-Su. (Leake, Asia Minor, p. 196.)

3. A small river in Pontus Polemoniacus, in the

country of the Macrunra. (Plin. vi. 4.) [L. S.]

MELAS SINUS. [Melas, No. 5.]

MELDI (M«\S(u, Ptol. ii. 8. § 15), a people of

Gallia Celtica or Lugdunensis in Ptolemy's time,

whose chief place was Iatinum; but the position

which Ptolemy aligns to the Meldae and to Iatinum

is very incorrect, if the Meldi are properly placed as

neighbours of the Parisii and on the Matrona

(.Vorne). Strabo is not clearer. He says(iv.p. 194:—-

"On both sides of the Sequana there are the Parisii,

who possess an island in the river and a city

Lotecia, and Meldae, and Lexovii, along the Ocean

these ;" by which he perhaps means only the Lex-

orii, but he might mean to say that the Meldae

were on the Ocean. Pliny (iv. 18) mentions in

Logdunensis Gallia "Meldi Liberi, Parisii, Tre-

castes." From aN this we may inter that the Meldi

were near tiie Parisii; but we only obtain a certain

result as to their position from that of Iatinum

[Iatisum] and other evidence. Gregory of Tours

speaks of the "Comitatus Meldensis;" the "terri-

torium Meldicum" is mentioned in the Gesta of

Dagobm L; and in the Capitularies of Charlemagne

the *• Melcianus Pagua " is placed between the " Pa-

rbiacus " and " Miludensis," or the Pagus of Melodu-

nutn (Melon), and as the Melcianus occupies the space

between the two other Pagi, it must comprise the

dVcese of Meoux. Thus we obtain with certainty

the position of the Meldi. (D'Anville, Notice, <fc.)

Caesar (B. G. T. 5) mentions the Meldi once;

and the passage has caused great difficulty. The

name Meldi in Caesar's text is not certain. The

MSS. have Medi, Melui, Hedui, Meldi, and Belgae.

Caesar, intending to invade Britannia a second time,

ordered the legali who were set over his legions to

get ships built in the winter of B. c. 55—54. All

his legions were in the country of the Belgae

during this winter (B. G. iv. 38); and it 6eems a

proper inference that all these ships were built in

the country of the Belgae. When Caesar in the

spring of B. c. 54 came to the Portus Itius, he

ivond all the ships there except sixty which were

built " in Meldis." These ships being driven back

by had weather, had returned to the place from

which they sailed. The wind which brought the other

thirst to the Portus Itius, which ships must have

race from the south, would not suit ships that came

from the north and east; and hence D'Anville justly

concluded that these Meldi, whatever may be the

true name, most have been north and east of Itius.

A resemblance of words led him to find the name of

the Meldi in a place which he calls Mtldfelt near

hntyes. The true name of the place is Moldeghcm,

litre is a place on the Scheldt about a league from

(hdtmatrde, named Melden, which under the Empire

was a Roman station (Recueil dAntiquites, cfe. trou-

«wi dans la Flandre, par M. J. de Bast). This is

certainly not very conclusive evidence for fixing

the site of the Meldi; if that is the right name.

"Belgae " cannot be the true reading, because all the

ship* were built in the territory of the Belgae; and

Caesar's remark about the sixty would have no

meaning, if he spoke of them as built "in Belgis."

If we cannot fix the site of these Meldi, we can

see that they are not the people on the Marne.

Caesar could have no reason for building vessels so

far up the river. If he did build any on the Seine,

he built them lower down. But it is clear that

Caesar does not mean any vessels built on the Seine,

for be says that these sixty were driven back to the

place from which they came; a remark which, if

applied to ships built on the Seine, is without any

meaning. Ukert (GaUien, p. 325) has made somo

objection to DAnviUe's position of the Meldi, and

his objections may have some weight; but his

notion that Caesar's Meldi can be the Meldi on tho

Marne shows that he did not understand Caesar's

text. [G. L.]

MELDIA (MeASIo), a town of Moesia Superior,

on the road from Naissus to Sardica. (It. Ant.

p. 135 ; It. Hieros. p. 566.) [A L.]

MELES (MeAijs), a small river of Ionia, flowing

close by the walls of Smyrna, and discharging its

waters into the Hermaean gulf. (Strab. xii. p. 554,

xiv. p. 646.) The little stream derives its cele­

brity from its connection with the legends about

Homer, and from a report about the healing powers

of its waters. There was a tradition that near the

sources of the river Meles there was a cave in which

Homer had composed his epic poems, whence he is

sometimes called M*\Tioiyfrhs. (Paus. vii. 5. § 6;

Vit. Horn. 2; Stat. Silv. iii. 3. 60, 7. 33; Tibull.

iv. 1. 200.) The belief in the healing power of its

waters is attested by an inscription quoted by

Arundell (Asia Minor, vol. ii. p. 406) and Ha­

milton (Researches, vol. ii. Append. No. 48). These

circumstances are of some importance in identifying

the river. It used to be supposed that a small,

dirty, and muddy stream, flowing close by the

modern town of Smyrna, was the same as the

ancient Meles. But there is another stream, with

bright and sparkling water, which rushes over its

rocky bed near Bournoubat, and is still celebrated

for its agreeable and wholesome qualities. Tra­

vellers are now justly inclined to identify this river

with the ancient Meles. This supposition is con­

firmed by our more accurate knowledge of the site of

ancient Smyrna, which was on the north of the bay,

while new Smyrna was on the south of it, at a

distance of 20 stadia from the former; the site of the

ancient place is still marked by a few ruins; and

close by them flows the clear stream which we must

assume to be the ancient Meles. (Comp. Horn. Hymn.

viii. 3; Ptol. v 2. § 7; Steph. B.s. v. M<Aijrou n6\iros,

according to whom the river was also called Meletus;

Plin. v. 31; Hamilton, Researches, vol. i. p. 51,

foil.) [L. S.]

MIX ESSES, a people in the S. of Spain, upon

whoso confines was situated the rich city of Oringis,

also called Aurinx. (Liv. xxviii. 3.) [Aukinx.]

MELIB0CUS(t6 Kn\iSoKor opof),amountaiii in

the interior of Germany, above the Semanus Silva.

(Ptol. ii. 11. § 7.) There can be little doubt that

Melibocus is the ancient name for the Harz mountain,

or the Thurinyer icald, or for both. [L. S.]

MELIBOEA, an island at the mouth of the

Orontes in Syria, the sole authority for the existence

of which appears to be a poetical myth of Oppianus.

(Cyneyet. ii. 115, &c.) [G. W ]

MELIBOEA (M«W«oia: Eth. MfXieWr). 1. An

ancient town of Magnesia in Thessaly, mentioned

by Homer aa one of the places subject to Philoctetes

