UXAMABARCA.

UXKLLODUNUM. 1331

:be road from Asturica to CaesaraugusU, 50 mile*

K. of Numantia, and in the neighbourhood of Ciu-

lia (/<«. Ant. p. 441), where, however, the more

■went editions read Yasama. (I'lin. iii. 3. s. 4;

Klor. iii. 22; Sil. Ital.iii.384.) It ia called Uxuma

o the Geogr. Kav. (iv. 43); and according to Ukert

u. pt. i. p. 455), it probably the "AJ« .»•«»• of Appian

vi. 47). Now 0,ma. [T. H. D.)

UXAMABARCA i o <••"««?'«<». 1'tol. ii. 6. §

>3), a town of the Aulrignnes in Hispania Tarraco-

ana, (Moral, /mcr. p. 1095. 8.) Ukert (ii. pt. i. p.

1*6) identifies it with Otma in Bitcaya. [T. H. I). ]

UXAN US INSULA, for so the name should be

rad in the Maritime Itin., is I liny's Axantos (iv.

Ill), an island off the Atlantic coast of Gallia.

,'mntia ia Ouasant, or Uthant, as the English often

trite it, a small island belouging to the depurt-

it-nt of Finittrre, and nearly in tlie latitude of

fcest [G. L.]

UXELLA (O0(«XAa, Ptol. ii. 3. § 10), called

y the Geogr. Kav. (v. 30) Uxeli, a city of the

tumnonii in Britannia Romana. Camden (p. 18)

lentioee it with the little town of Liutiriii.nl in

"urnwali ; whilst Horsley (p. 378) and others take

; to be Exeter. [T. H. D.]

I'XELLODU'NUM, in Gallia. In B. c. 51 Drap­

es a Senon and Lucterius a Cadurcan, who had

iven the Romans mach trouble, being pursued by

!. Caninius Rebilos, one of Caesar's legates, took

?fuge in Uxellodunum, a town of the Cadurci

B. G. viii. 32—44): Uxellodunum was in a posi-

ixi naturally strong, protected by rocks so steep

hat an armed man could hardly climb np, even if

•I resistance were made. A deep valley surrounded

early the whole elevation on which the town stood,

nd a river flowed at the bottom of the valley. The

nerval where the river did not flow round the

icp aides of this natural fortress was only 300 feet

>'lr, and along this part ran the town wall. Close

> the wall was a large spring, which supplied the

i»ii during the siege, for the inhabitants could not

pt down the rocks to the river for water without

>k of thrir lives from the Romaji missies. Cani-

ius began his bUxkade of Uxellodunum by making

irra camps on very high ground, with the intention

F gradually drawing a vallum from each camp, and

grounding the plaice. On the river side his campa

ere of coarse separated from the town by the

i*p valley in which the river flowed; he may have

lai.ted two camps here and one on the land side of

xellodunum.

The townsmen remembering what had happened

: Aleaia the year before, sent out Lucterius and

rappee to bring supplies into the place. Lucterius

nl Urappea took all the fighting men for this pur-

•e except 2000, and they collet led a large quali­

ty of com; but aa Lucterius was attempting to

irry it into the town by night, the Romans sur-

-ued him, and cut his men to pieces. The other  
• of the force which had gone out was with

appea about 12 miles off. Caninius sent his

iialry and light German troops against Drappee

surprise him, and he followed with a legion. H:s

iccesa was most complete. Drap]«s was taken

lisasar and his force destroyed or captured. Ca­

mus was now enabled to go on with his ciroum-

dlation without fear of interruption from without,

d C. Fabins arriving the next day with his troops

r:.. k tbe blockade of part of the town.

Caesar bearing the news about Uxellodunum and

• ■king to check all further risings in Gallia by

one signal example more, hnrried to the place with

all his cavalry, ordering C. Calenus and two legions

to follow him by regular marches. He found the

place abnt in, but it was well supplied with pro­

visions, as tbe deserters told him; and there remained

nothing to do but to cut off the townsmen from tbe

water. By hia archers and slingers, and by his en­

gines for discharging missiles (tormenta) placed oppo­

site those parts of the town where the descent to the

river was easiest, he attempted to prevent the enemy

from coming down to the river to get water. His next

operation was to cat them off from the spring, and

this was tbe great operation of the siege on which

depended the capture of the town. Caesar dealt

with his enemies as a doctor with a disease — he

cut off the supplies. (Krontinus, Strat. iv. 7. 1.)

He moved his vineae towards that part of the town

where the spring lay under the wall, and this was

the isthmus which connected the hill fort with the

open country. He also began to construct mounds

of earth, while the townsmen from tbe higher ground

annoyed the Romans with missiles. Still the Ro­

mans pushed on their vineae and their earthworks,

and at the same time began to form mines (cuniculi)

to reach the source of water and draw it off. A

mound of earth 9 feet high was constructed, and a

tower of ten stories was placed upon it, not high

enough to be on a level with the top of the wall, but

high enough to command the summit level of the

spring. Thus they prevented the enemy from

reaching the spring, and a great number of cattle,

horses, and men died of thirst. The townsmen now

tumbled down blazing barrels filled with fat, pitch,

and chips of wood, and began a vigorous onset to

prevent tbe Romans from quenching the flames; for

the burning materials being stopped in their descent

by the vineae and mounds, set the Roman works on

fire. On this Caesar ordered his men to scale the

heights on all sides and to divert the defendants

from the land side by a feint of attacking the walls.

This drew the enemy from the lire; anil all their

force was employed in manning the walls. In the

meantime the Romans put out the fire or cut it

off. The obstinate resistance of the enemy was

terminated by the spring being completely dried up

by the diversion of the water through the subter­

raneous passages which the Romans had constructed;

and they surrendered after many of them had died

of thirst. To terrify the Galli by a signal example,

Caesar cut off tbe hands of ull the lighting men

who remained alive.

The attack and defence of Uxellodunnm contain

a full description of the site. This hill-fort was

surrounded by a river on all sides except one, and

on this side also the approach to it was steep. It

is agreed that Uxellodunum was somewhere either

on the Oltis {Lot) or on the Duranius (bordmjne).

D'Anville places it at Pnech dlaoln, on a small

stream named the Tourmentr, which flows into the

Dordognt after passing lSiech dluulu. He was

informed by some person acquainted with the locality

that the spring still exists, and we may assume that

to be true, for Caesar could not destroy the source:

be only drew off the water, so that the hoieged

could not get at it. D'Anville adds that what ap­

peared to he the entrance of the place U called m

the country le portaii de A'omr. and that a hill w hich

is close to the /WcA, is named B«l-Ct\*ttl. but

this distinguished geographer had no exact plan of

the place, and had nut seen it. VYakkenaer (Geoy.

df (iW«, i. p. 353) attiima that the plin of /W/i

*0 2

