LAURIUM. 149 LAUS.

Saniuin to Thoricus, on the eastern coast. Its pre­

sent condition is thus described by Mr. Dodwell:—

• One hour from Thorikos brought us to one of the

ancient shafts of the silver mines; and a few h iui-

lired ranis further we came to several others, which

are of a square form, and cut in the rock. We ob­

served only one round shaft, which was larger than

the others, and of considerable depth, as we conjec­

tured, from the time that the atones, which were

thrown in. took to reach the bottom. Near this are

the foundations of a large round tower, and several

remains of ancient walls, of regular construction.

The traces -are so extensive, that they seem to indi­

cate, not only the buildings attached to the mines,

bat the town of Laurium itself, which was probably

strongly fortified, and inhabited principally by the

people belonging to the mines." Some modem writers

doubt whether there was a town of the name of

Laurium; but the grammarians (Suidas and Photins)

who call Laurium a place (toitoi) in Attica appear

lo have meant something more than a mountain; and

DadweH is probably correct in regarding the ruins

which he describes as those of the town of Laurium.

N"*ar these rains Dodwell observed several large

fatij* of scoria scattered about Dr. Wordsworth, in

pissing along the shore from Sunium to Thoricns,

observes:—u The ground which we tread is strewed

*ilh rusty heaps of scoria from the silver ore which  
<nce enriched the soil. On our left is a hill, called

Score", so named from these heaps of scoria, with

*bich it is covered. Here the shafts which have  
ken sunk for working the ore are visible." The

orw of this district have been ascertained to contain

fed as well as silver (Walpole's Turkey, p. 426).

This confirms the emendations of a passage in the

Aristotelian Oeconomics proposed by Bockh and

Wordsworth, where, instead of Tvpleov in TIv6ok\tis

AfyraMH 'A&nvatois cvvtSovKtvcf tok fi6\vBZov

to* 4k rvv Tvpiwv irapaXauSaytiv. Bockh sug-

Z&Ia Aaupltev, and Wordsworth apyuplav, which

oaght rather to be itpyvptiwv, as Mr. Lewis observes.

Tli*1 name of Laurium is preserved in the corrupt

form of Letjrana or Alegrand. which is the name of

» nK&hi of the monastery of Mendeli.

Tue mines of Laurium, according to Xenophon

(* Vtctig. iv. 2). were worked in remote antiquity;

m>l there can be no doubt that the possession of a

knre supply of silver was one of the main causes of

U*e rarly prosperity of Athens. They are alluded to

br Aeschylus {Pert. 235) in the line—

spfvpov mryft tis adroit fart, drjaavphs x^vos.

TV- were the property of the state, which sold or

i*t for a long term of years, to individuals or com-

p*cw. particular districts, partly in consideration of

t mm or fine paid down, partly of a reserved rent

e^aal to one twenty-fourth of the gross produce.

Hk rtly before the Persian wars there was a large

tin in the Athenian treasury, arising out of the

Laurian mines, from which a distribution of ten

tfvhmae a head was going to be made among the

AiJ*nian citizens, when Themistccles persuaded

then to apply the money to the increase of their

** (Herod. viL 144; Pint. Them. 4.) Bockh  
•sfposea that the distribution of ten drachmae a

wad, which Themistocles persuaded the Athenians

*» forego, was made annually, from which he pro-  
"»& to calculate the total produce of the mines,

ka it ha* been justly observed by Mr. Grote, that

*t are not authorised to conclude from the passage  
a Herodotus that all the money received from the

mines was about to be distributed ; nor moreover is

there any proof that there was a regular annual dis­

tribution. In addition to which the large sum lying

in the treasury was probably derived from the ori­

ginal purchase money paid down, and not from the

reserved annual rent.

Even in the time of Xenophon {Mem, iii. 6. § 12)

the mines yielded much less than at an early period;

and in the age of Philip, there were loud complaints

of unsuccessful speculations in mining. In the

first century of the Christian era the mines were

exhausted, and the old scoriae were smelted a se­

cond time. (Strab. ix. p. 399.) In the following

century Laurium is mentioned by Pausanias (i. 1),

who adds that it had once been the seat of the

Athenian silver mines. (Dodwell, Tour through

Greece, vol. i. p. 537, seq.; Wordsworth, A thens and

Attica, p. 208, seq.; Walpole's Turkey, p. 425, seq.;

Fiedler, Reise (lurch Griechenland, vol. i. p. 36, seq.;

Leake, Demi of Attica, p. 65; Bockh, Dissertation

on the Silver Mines of Laurion, appended to the

English translation of his Public Economy ofAthefts;

Grote's Greece^ vol. v. p. 71, seq.)

LAU'RIUM, a village in Etruria, more correctly

written Lorium. [LouiUM.]

LAURON (Jiavpoiv. prob. Laury} W. of Xucar, in

Valencia), a town of Hispania Tarracouensis, near

Sucro, and not far from the sea. Though apparently

an insignificant place, it is invested with great in-

terest in history, both for the siege it endured in the

Sertorian War, and as the scene of the death of Cu.

Pompeius the Younger, after his flight from the de­

feat of Munda. (Liv. xxxiv. 17; Appian, B. C. i.

109; PluU Sert. 18, Pomp. 18; Flor. iii. 22, iv. 2,

comp. Bell llisp. 37; Oros. v. 23; Ukert, vol. ii.

pt.Lp.4M0 [P-S-]

LAUS(Aoor: Eth.Aaivos: nearScafea),a city

on the W. coast of Lucania, at the mouth of the

river of the same name, which formed the boundary

between Lucania and Bruttium. (Strab. vi. pp. 253,

254.) It was a Greek city, and a colony of Sybaris;

but the date of its foundation is unknown, and we

have very little information as to its history. He­

rodotus tells us that, after the destruction of Sybaris

in B.C. 510, the inhabitants who survived the catas­

trophe took refuge in Laiis and Scidrus (Herod, vi.

20); but he does not say, as has been supposed, that

these cities were then founded by the Sybarites: it

is far more probable that they had been settled long

before, during tho greatness of Sybaris, when Posi-

donia also was planted by that city on the coast of

the Tyrrhenian sea. The only other mention of

Laiis in history is on occasion of a great defeat sus­

tained there by the allied forces of the Greek cities

in southern Italy, who had apparently united their

arms in order to check the progress of the Lucanians,

who were at this period rapidly extending their

power towards the south. The Greeks were defeated

with great slaughter, and it is probable that Laiis

itself fell into the hands of the barbarians. (Strab. vi.

p. 253.) From this time we hear no more of the

city; and though Strabo speaks of it as still in ex­

istence in his time, it seems to have disappeared be­

fore the days of Pliny. The latter author, however

(as well as Ptolemy), notices the river Laiis, which

Pliny concurs with Strabo in fixing as the boundary

between Lucania and Bruttium. (Strab. I.e.; Plin. iii.

5. a. 10; Ptol. iii. 1. § 9 ; Staph. B. *. v.)

The river Laiis still retains its ancient name as,

the Lao, or Laino: it is a considerable stream,

fulling into the Gulf of Policastro. Near its sources

l3

