TEGEA. TEGEA. 1119

the formation of the Arcadian confederacy. (Xen.

rli rl 5. § 6, seq.) When Mantineia a few years

erv&rds quarrelled with tho supreme Arcadian

vfitrntnt, and formed an alliance with its old

hut Sparta, Tegea remained faithful to the new

afrieracy, and fought under Eparninondas against

t v art an* at the great battle of Mantineia, 362.

>a BtlL vii. 4. § 36, seq., vii. 5. § 5, seq.)

T-vra at a later period joined the Aetolian League,

tKuo after the accession of Cleomenes III. to the

.irr-.n thnme it formed an alliance with Sparta,

fi:,tr with Mantineia and Orchomenus. It thus

»nf involved in hostilities with the Achaeans,

J in tin war which followed, called the Clcomenic

it, it was taken by Antigonus Doson, the ally of

r Achaean*, and annexed to the Achaean League,

c.«2l (Pol ii. 46, 54, scq.) In 218 Tegea

i attacked by Lycurgus, the tyrant of Sparta,

0 obtained possesion of the whole city with the

«ftiuo of the acropolis. It subsequently fell

» the hands of Machanidas, but was recovered

t:,e Achaeans after the defeat of the latter

i..:, who was slain in battle by Philopocmen.

»L v. 17, xi. 18.) In the timo of Strain)

i was the only one of the Arcadian towns

kI continued to be inhabited (Strab. viii. p. 388),

1 it was still a place of importance in the time of

aanias, who has given us a minute account of

public buildings. (Pans. viii. 45—48, 53.)

cm was entirely destroyed by Alaric towards the

of the 4th century after Christ. (Claud. B.

'. 576; com p. Zosim. t. 6.)

territory of Tegea formed the southern part

:Ae (Jain of Tripotitzd, of which a description

s map are given under Mantineia. Tegea

about 10 miles S. of tho latter city, in a

.'irw, and about 3 miles SK. of the modern

0 of Tripoliizd. Being situated in the lowest

[ if the plain, it was exposed to inundations

It the writers flowing down from the sur-

*Unz mountains; and in the course of ages  
»<ui has been considerably raided by the dej>o-

e* brought down by the waters. Hence there

*-arcrly any remains of the city visible, and its

•■-in i-nly be conjectured frum the broken pieces

*<■'.<* and other fragments scattered on the plain,

hum the foundations of walls and buildings

r-d by the jjca-ants in working in the fields.

Ff*sn, however, that the ancient city extended

the hill of Aio Sottit (StSaviour) on the N.,

U*e hamleta Ibrahim- Ejftndi and Pako'Epis-

. ai least aa far as Akkuria and Pudi This

kl make the city at least 4 miles in circtun-

ut. The principal remains are at Pialt, Near

(nocipal church uf this Tillage Leake found the

daLuos of an ancient building, of tine squared

», among which were two pieces of some large

mn< of marble; and there can be little doubt that

e w the remains of the ancient temple of Athena

- Thi* temple was said to have Ixcn originally  
• by A lens, the founder of Tegea; it was burnt

c is a c. 394, and the new building, which was

t*d by Scopas, is said by Pausanias to have been

largest and most magnificent temple in the lVlo-

wma (Pans, viii. 45. §4, seq.; for details see Diet

'«$r. art. Soofas.) Pausanias entered the city

am the gate leading to Pallantium, consequently

«oth-western gate, which must have been near

it He logins his description with the temple

\lhena Alea, and then goes across the great

1 to the theatre, the remains of which Ross

traces in the ancient foundations of the ruined

church of PaU6~Epi*kopi. Perhaps this theatre

was the splendid marble one built by Antiochus IV.

Epiphanes in n.c. 175. (Liv. xli. 20.) Pausanias

ends his description with the mention of a height

(xwpfor tyi)\6v, viii. 53. § 9), probably the hill

AioSostU in the N. of the town, and apparently the

same as that which Pausanias elsewhere calls the

Watch-Hill (\6<pos tuAovrpfc, viii. 48. § 4), and

Polybiua the acropolis (&xpa, v. 17). None of the

other public buildings of Tegea mentioned by Pau­

sanias can be identified with certainty; but there

can be no doubt if excavations were made on its

site many interesting remains would be discovered,

since the deep alluvial soil is favourable to their

preservation.

The territory of Tegea N. of the city, towards

Mantineia, is a plain of considerable size, and is

usually called the Tegeatic plain (Trywutbv

WoW). There was a smaller plain, separated

from the former by a low range of mountains S. of

Tripolitzd, and lying between Tegea and Pallantium:

it was called the Manthyric plain (yiavBvpiitbv vt~

8iof), from Manthyrcn, one of the ancient demi

of Tegea, the ruins of which are situated SW. of

Tegea, on a slope of Mt. Boreium. (Pans. viii. 44.

§ 7, comp. viii. 45. § 1, 47. § 1; Steph. B. *. v.

MavQvpda.) The remainder of the Tegealis oh tho

E. and S. is occupied by the mountains separating

it from Argolis and Sparta respectively, with the

exception of a small plain running eastward from

the Tegeatic plain to the foot of Mu Parthenium,

and probably called the Corythic plain, from Cory-

theis, one of the ancient demi of Tegea, which was

situated in this plain. (Paus. viii. 45. § 1, 54.

H)

Hie plnin of Tegea having no natural outlet for

its waters is drained by natural chasms through the

limestone mountains, called katavtfthra. Of these

the two mast important are at the modern village of

Persova and at the marsh of Taki. The former is

situated in the Corythic plain above mentioned, at

the foot of Mt. Parthenium, and the latter is tho

marsh in the Manthyric plain, SW. of Tegea. The

chief river in the district is now called the Saranta-

potamos, which is undoubtedly the Alpheius of Pau­

sanias (viii. 54. § 1, seq.). The Alpheius rose on

the frontiers of Tegea and Sparta, at a place called

Phylack (4»yA(£k7/, near Krya Vry»U)t one of the

ancient demi of Tegea, and, as we may infer from

its name, a fortified watch-tower for the protection

of the pass. A little beyond Phylace the Alpleius

receives a stream composed of several mountain

torrents at a place named Syuuola (Zvptoka);

but upon entering the plain of Tegea its course

was different in ancient times. It now flows in a

north-easterly din-ction through the plain, receives

the river of hhuliana (the ancient Garates, Tafa-

tjjj, Pans. viii. 54. § 4). flows through the Cory­

thic plain, and enters the katavithra at Prrsord.

Pausanias, on the other hand, says (viii. 54. § 2)

that the Alpheius descends into the earth in the

Tegeatic plain, reappears near Asea (SW. of Tegea),

where, after joining the Enrol as, it sinks a second

time into the earth, and again appears at Asea.

Hence it would seem that the Alpheius anciently

flowed in a north-westerly direction, and entered the

katarothra at the marsh of Taki, in the Manthyric

plain. There is a tradition among the peasants that

the course of the river was changed by a Turk, who

I acquired property in the neighbeurhood, because the

