774 KOMA. ROMA.

whole extent of road was called Sacra Via only

in sacerdotal language, between which and the

common usage we have already had occasion to note

a diversity when giving an account of the Servian

gates. In common parlance only that |x>rtion of

the mail was called Sacra Via which formed the

ascent of the Velia, from the forum to its summit

(u Hujus Sacrae Viae pars haec sola vulgo nota quae

est a foro eunti primore clivo," Varr, /. c). Hence

by the poets it is sometimes called " Sacer Clivus:"

"hide aacro veneranda petes Taiatia clivo." (Mart,

i. 70. 5); and —

"quandoque traliet feroces

Per sacrum cDrum,imerita decoras

Fronde, Sicambros."

(Hor. Od. iv. 2. 34.)

compared with—

"IntaCtU* ant Britannus ut dtscentkret

Sacra catenatus via." (Id. Epod. v». 7.)

(Comp. Ambrosch,.Sf/«/«■« und Andeut. p. 78, seq.)

The origin of the vulgar opinion is explained by

Festua in the following passage: *' Itaque ne eatenus

quidem, ut vulgus opinatur. sacra appellanda est, a

regis ail domum regis sacririculi; ted etiam a regis

domo ad sacellum Streniae, et rursus a regia usque

in litem * (p. 290, HU11.). Whence it appears

that only the part which lay between the Regia, or

house of the pontiffs maximus, and that of the rex

sacrificulus, was commonly regarded, and probably

for that very reason, as "sacra." This passage,

however, though it shows plainly enough that there

must have been a space between these two resi­

dences, has caused some embarrassment on account

of a passage in Dion Cassius (liv. 27), in which he

says that Augustus presented the house of the rex

sacrificulus (too $amA4<*ts twc it petty) to the Vestals

because it adjoined their residence (o/xotoixos

Jf); and as we know from Pliny (JBp. tit 19)

that the vestals dwelt close to the temple, it seems

impossible, if Dion is right, that there should have

been a street lying between the two places men­

tioned. But the matter is plain enough; though

Becker (da J/urw, pp. 30—35, Ilandb. pp. 226—

237) wastes severs! pages in most far-fetched

reasonings in order to arrive at a conclusion which

already lies before us in a reading of the text

of Dion for which there is actually MS. authority.

Augustus was chosen pontifex maximal (apxtt-

/>*us), not rex sacrificulus, as Dion himself says in

this passage. But the two offices were perfectly

distinct (*' Regent sscrificolnm creant. Id sacer-

dotilim pofltifici subjecere," Liv. ii. 2). Augustus

would hardly make a present of a house which did

not belong to him; and therefore in Dion we must

read, with some MSS., too $aat\4ws T*V itpiwv,

lor Itpwy; Dion thus, in order perhaps to convey

a lively notion of the office to his Greek readers,

designating the Roman pontifex maximm as " king

of the priests," instead of using the ordinary Greek

term apxtfptvs. The matter therefore lies thus.

Varro says that in ordinary life only the clivus,

or ascent from the forum to the Summa Sacra Via,

obtained the name of Sacra Via. FcstQl repeats

the same tiling in a different manner; designating

the space so called as lying between the Regis, or

house of the pontifex maximus, and that of the

rex sacrificulus. Whence it follows that the latter

must have been on the Summa Sacra Via. It can

scarcely be doubted that before the time of Augustus

the Regia was the residence of tbe protjfex mui-

mus. The building appears to have ex&Ud tula

late period of the Empire. It is mentioned V tat

younger Pliny (Ep. iv. 11) and by Plutarch

97, Horn. 18) as extant in their time, and aWas»

bably by Herodian^i. 14) in his descriptka *f MS)

burning of the temple of Peace under CuuianaSj

After the expulsion of tbe kings, tbe rex «aaV

cuius, who succeeded to their sacerdotal preens*

lives, was probably presented with one of ibenasj

residences, of which there were several in liviasjkSJ

bourhood of the Summa Sacra Via; thai btHf tha

spot where Aocua Marcius, Tarquinius I*riaaa,^H

Tarquinius Superbus had dwelt. (Lit. l 41; aeak |

i. 23, 24; Pirn, xxxiv. 13.) We taooot *&oS

exact direction in which the Sacra Via tmaaaj

the valley of the Colosseum and ascended 0>S]sl

arch of Titus, nor by what name this part a! flfl

road was commonly called in the Ungosp <* wSJ

people; but it probably kept along tbe awa SJ

the Velia. At its highest point, or Satan* fjH

Via, and perhaps on the site afterwards *°sa|H

by the temple of Venus and Rome, there atanfj

have been anciently a market for the sale of fctsl

and also probably of nick-nacks and toy*. r

Sacra Via, ubi poma veneunt" (Varr. tL

Hence Ovid (A. A. a. 265.) :—

44 Rure suburbano poteris tibi dicere am

Ilia, vel in Sacra sint licet einta Via.*

Whilst the nick-nacks are thus mentioned \

pertius (iii. 17. 11.): —

44 Et modo pavonis caudae flabella i

Et manibus dura frigas habere p£a,

Et cupit iratum talos me poscere ebw/sn:

Quaeque intent Sacra *iUa dona Vnk"

The direction of the Sacra Via is iadkal

Horace's description of his stroll: ■ ibamai

Sacra," &c. (S. i. 9.) He is going down ill

the forum, having probably come from the'

Maecenas, on the Esquiline, when be u

by the eternal bore whom be has

direction of his walk is indicated by bis i

excuse that he is going to visit a sick towjH

the Tiber (v. 17) and by the arriral at tie I

of Vesta (v. 35); the Sacra Via baring

quitted and the fomm left on tbe right,

extremities of the street, as ccexunoetry

indicated in the fullowing passage of Cicersr*

tamen miror, cur tu buic pottssiuinm

kmgissime a te abfuti. Equidem, &i a\

jactor in tin ha, non ilium acctuo, *pm tmi rt San]

Sacra Via, cum ego ad / V <-..- . Fm

ptlhr, sed eum qui in me ip&um

incidit" ( p. Plane. 7). The Fornix

will be seen hereafter, stood at the .

of the forum; and Cicero baa made the

illustration by taking the whole length oi that*

Beyond this point, where it trxvened the X.I

the fomm, we are at a loss to tell what ins 1

appellation may hare been; and if i

suggest that it may have been called ■ im

is merely a conjecture from Horace (EmiaL i

where " haec Janus eummus *b imo * i

better with a street—just as we sbooJd

Lombard street" — than with twt> Jani, i

monly interpreted, or than with a building <

several floors let out in counting hrmruai

ii. 3. 18.) This view is snpported by I

on the first of these passage^, where St » 1

i r ahaawfl

