TIIRACIA. THRACIA. 1181

manifest that at this early period, when there was

•j.irvrir any intercourse between different nations,

jr knowledge of foreign tongues, poets who sang in

in unintelligible language could not have had more

irt.n-ni.-e on the mental development of the people

Jan the twittering of birds."

Mller therefore concludes that the Thracians of

V ante-historical era, and those of subsequent

i::ies, belonged to distinct races. "When we come

i trace more precisely the country of these Thracian

ad?", we find that the traditions refer to Pieria, the

Itttrict to the east of the Olympus range, to the

virth of Thessaly, and the soutli of Emathia or

Uicdonia: in Pieria likewise was Leibethra, where

Mutrs are said to have sung tho lament over the

•mb of Orpheus: the ancient poets, moreover,

litrar* make Pieria, not Thrace, the native place of

!i- Mnsrt, which la.it Homer clearly distinguishes

mn Pieria, (/£ xiv. 226.) It was not until the

*imsnt were pressed in their own territory by the  
ariv Macedonian princes that some of them crossed

Strymon into Thrace Proper, where Herodotus

ni 113) mentions the castles of the Pierians at the

une of the expedition of Xerxes. It is, however,

I'tite conceivable that in early times, either on ac-

m:;: of their close vicinity, or because all the north

r« comprehended under one name, the Pierians

i.-'it, in Southern Greece, have been called Thra-

These Pierians, from the intellectual relations

»).;< ii tliey maintained with the Greeks, appear to be

. <i'rctan race; which supposition is also confirmed

* tli* Greek names of their places, rivers, fountains,  
til hough it is probable tliat, situated on the

Tiii* jf the Greek nation, they may have borrowed

ireely from neighbouring tribes. (See Muller's

"toriam, vol L pp. 472, 488, 501.)" After refer-

to the accounts of tho Thracians in Southern

•rent, Muller adds: "From what has been said, it

i>;*"an sufficiently clear that these Pierians or

finciana, dwelling about Helicon and Parnassus in

Wv.rinityof Attica, are chiefly signified when a

imcUo origin is ascribed to the mythical bards of

LtUca."

Colonel Mure, after referring to tho foregoing

»w, which he designates as "plausible," goes on

^ fili.iws: "But the cose admits of another, and

■*-h»pi more satisfactory explanation. It is certain

■U, m the mythical geography, a tract of country

a the frontiers of Uoeotia and Phocis, comprchend-

i: Mount Parnassus aitd Helicon, bore the name of

arte*. [See the etymology, ante.] In this re-

'ii the popular mythology also lays the scene of

c"r*l of the most celebrated adventures, the heroes

f which are called Thracians." The author then

f'pMS this explanation to the stories of Tereus and

roroe, and of Lyeurgus, '* king of Thrace;" and

weed* thus: ** Pausanias makes the 4 Thracian 1

ird Thamyris virtually a Phocian. Ho assigns

im fa- m ther a nymph of Pa mass us called

JTiope. His father, Philammon, is described as a

of the same region, son of Apollo, by the

rnph Chione, and brother of Autolycus, its cele-

rited robber chieftain. The divine grandsire is

rrwualy here bat a figure of his own sacred region;

•* grandmother Chione, as her name bears, of its

»». Others call the latter heroine Keaconoe*.

as names of these heroines are all so many varied

►■I** of typifying the same 'snow-white' Par-

s»ua> Thia view of the 'Thracian' character of

•ft* sages iM-comes the more plausilde, if it bo re-

*mbered that the region of Central Greece, in which

the Hellenic Thrace was situated, is that from which

first or chiefly, the seeds of elementary culture were

propagated throughout the nation. Here tradition

places the first introduction of the alphabet. Here were

also the principal seats of Apollo and the Muses. In

the heart of the same region was situated the Minyean

Orchomenos, the temple of the Graces, rivalling

Thebes herself in the splendour of her princes and

zeal for the promotion of art. Among the early

masters of poetry or music, not vulgarly styled Thra­

cians, the most illustrious, Amphion and Linus, are

Boeotians. Nor was this region of Central Greece

less favoured in respect of its religious institutions.

It was not only the favourite seat of Apollo, the

Muses, and the Graces, but the native country of the

Dionysiac rites, seal for the propagation of which is

a characteristic of the Thracian sages." {Hist of

Lang, and Lit of Ant. Greece, i. pp. 150—153;

cf. Niebuhr, Lett on Ethnog. and Gtog. L p. 287.)

In thus entirely disconnecting these early 11 Thru-

cians," from those of later times, we have the autho­

rity of Thucydides (ii. 29), who, in speaking of Teres,

the father of Sitalces, remarks : "This Teres had

no connection whatever with Tereus, who married

Procne, daughter of Pandion of Athens; they did

not even belong to the same Thrace. Tereus dwelt

at Daulia, a city of the country now called Phocis,

and which was then occupied by the Thracians."

And he proceeds to show that it was not likely that

Pandion would form an alliance with any one who

lived so far from Athens as tho country of the

Odrysae.*

The consideration of the ethnological relations of

the early Thracians hardly falls within the scope of

this article; but since identity of name has often

caused them to be confounded with the historical in-

habitants of Thrace, it may be desirable briefly to

discuss the subject in this place.

The view which seems to the present writer to be

best supported by the evidence, and to explain most

satisfactorily the ancient authors, is that which re­

gards the mythical Thracians as members of the

widely extended race to which the name of Pelasgians

is usually given. It is clear from Homer that a close

connection existed between the people of Southern

Thrace and the Trojans, who were probably Pelasgians,

and who are at the same time represented by him as

agreeing, in language, religion, and other important

respects, with the Greeks. Again, Homer mentions

among the auxiliaries of Priam, the Caucones, who

are named along with the Pelasgians (/£ x. 429),

and the Cicones (//. ii. 846). These two names

bear so close a resemblance to each other as to sug­

gest the probability of the cognate origin of the

tribes so designated. Now the Cicones were un­

doubtedly Thracians (Odys. ix. 39, seqq.); while as

to the Caucones, Strabo (xil p. 542) informs us that

they occupied part of the coast of Uithynia,and were

regarded by some as Scythians, by others as Mace­

donians, by others again as Pelasgians. It will be

remembered that Caucones are mentioned by him

(vii. p. 321) among the earliest inhabitants of Pe­

loponnesus. Another noticeable fact is, that in the

passage of Strabo already quoted (ix. p. 401), he re­

presents the Thracians and Pelasgians as acting in

* Yet subsequent prose writers, to say nothing of  
poets, fall into the error of making Tereus an inha­

bitant of Thrace Proper ; and Pliny (iv. 18) even

mentions the castle there ia which the crime of

Tereus was perpetrated I

