NABATAEL NABATAEL 393

a apuntf. Tbey were the friends and allies of

li Jen in their struggle for independence; for

rto kin Utccibaeu-s, with his brother Jonathan,

W lima 3 din S. of the Jordan (cir. B. c. 164),

in moved him amicably, and pave him informa-

in rttch led to the deliverance of the oppressed

Jrti nGiletd from the Ammonites, under Timo-

tm (J.stpb. Ant. xii. 8. § 3; 1 Maccab. v. 24,

k.); ml *b(n preparing for an engagement with

bcttta (cir. B.C. 161), the same Jonathan pro-

pal to (dire all their moveable property in their

Wait. (lb. liii. 1. § 2; 1 Maccab. ix. 33.) Hut

4»a.-6at ud fullest notice of this people and of

irietuuT occurs in Diodorus Siculus, who men-

Ui tirnn frequently. In n. c. 312, Antigonns,

I avo| recovered Syria and Palestine out of the

> faii frWemy, resolved on an expedition against

Silsaa, ind detached his general Athenaeus

■ nrrkr, with 4000 light-armed troops and

ft> <4t cavalry. The manners of these Arabs

I aid uW country is described by the historian in

i «*> nenection. They inhabited tents in a vast

far! tract, which offered neither streams nor

I Lu-. to u invading army. Their institutions,

■ looted by him, bear a striking resemblance to

fat «f tie Rccuabites in ever)' particular, "to

boi to vine, nor to build houses, nor to have vine-

• •» 6dd, nor seed, but to dwell in tents."

'. urr. 6—11.) Diodorus mentions that the

of any of these customs was a capital

Tkeir occupations were chiefly pastoral;

; camels and others sheep in much

than the other Arabs, although

r did not exceed 10,000; but they also

I of the aromatic drugs of Arabia

i, »b*a were discharged at their great mart at

\ tad by tbem transported to the Mcditer-

l * Buoocorura. The love of liberty was a

• *uh them; and their custom, when attacked

r powerful enemy, was to retire to the wil-

"e invaders could not follow them

They themselves had provided

i vast subterranean reservoirs of

I dor in the clayey soil, or excavated in

and plastered, with very narrow

■it'll could be easily stopped and con-

I sural, but which were marked by indi-

only to themselves,—but gradually

I they attained the dimensions of 100

They lived on tiesh and milk, and on

produce of the country, such as

•riM honey, which they drank mixed

'There was an annual fair held in their

r.to which the bulk of the males used to

'fa purposes of traffic, leaving their flocks

aged men, and the women and

■ at rVtra, naturally a very strong place,

* d, two days distant from the inha-  
Athenaeus took advantage of the

< sf the Xabataeans at the fair, to attack

: a forced march of 3 days and 3

the eparchy of Idumaea, a distance of

, at assaulted the city about midnight,

sad wounded many of its inhabitants,

I off an immense booty in spicery and

[ftTiu.] On his retreat, however, he

i by the KaLataei, and all his forces

i with the exception of 50 horsemen,

i Antigonus sent another expedi-

I the command of Demetrius;

and Demetrius

was glad to withdraw his army on receiving such

gifts as were most esteemed among them. (Died,

xix. 44—48, comp. ii. 48.) In the geographical

section of his work the author places them on the

Laianites Sinus, a bay of tiie Aelanitic gulf, and de­

scribes them as possessing many villages, both on

the coast and in the interior. Their country was

most populous, and incredibly rich in cattle; but

their national character had degenerated when he

wrote (cir. B. c. 8). They had formerly lived ho­

nestly, content with the means of livelihood

which their flocks supplied; but from the time that

the kings of Alexandria had rendered the gulf navi­

gable for merchant vessels, they not only practised

violence as wreckers, but made piratical attacks

from their coasts on the merchantmen in the passago

through the gulf, imitating in ferocity and lawless­

ness the Tauri in Pontus. Ships of war were sent

against them, and the pirates were captured and

punished. (Ib. iii. 42, comp. Strabo, xvi. p. 777.)

The decrease of their transport trade and profits, by

the new channel opened through Egypt, was doubt­

less the real cause of this degeneracy. The trade,

however, was not entirely diverted; later writers

still mention Petra of the Kabataei as the great en­

trepot of the Arabian commerce (Arrian, Piriplits,

p. 11, ap. Hudson, vol. i.), both of the Gerrhaei

of the west, and of the Minaei of the south of that

peninsula. (Strabo, xvi. p. 776.) The account given

by Strabo agrees in its main features with the earlier

record of Diodorus Siculus; and he records at length

the deception practised on his friend Aelius Gallus

by Syllaeus, the procurator (eVfrpoirov) of the Na-

bataci, under the king Obodas; a false friend of tho

Homans, through whose territory he first led them

on leaving Leuce Come, where they had landed.

The policy of Syllaeus illustrates the remark of

Strabo (xvi. p. 783), that the Nabataeans arc prudent

and acquisitive; so much so, that those who wasted

their property were punished, and those who in­

creased it rewarded by the state. They had few

slaves among them; so they cither waited on them­

selves, or practised mutual servitude in families,

even in the royal family. They were much ad­

dicted to feasting, and their domestic manners

marked considerable progress in luxury and refine­

ment, from the rude simplicity of the primitive times

described by the more ancient author (p. 783,

seq.). He mentions that they were fire-worship­

pers, and sacrificed daily to the sun on their

house-tops Their government may be styled a

limited monarchy, as the king was subject to be

publicly called to account, and to have to defend

himself before the people. Their cities were un-

walled, and their country fruitful in everything

but the olive. The limits of their country are not

clearly defined; Strabo places them above tho

Syrians, with the Sabaei, in Arabia Felix (xvi. p.

779); but this must be a corrupt reading, and is in­

consistent with his other notices of them. Thus he

speaks of the promontory near Seal Island — the

peninsula of Mount Sinai — as extending to Petra

of the Arabs called Nabataei (p. 776), which be

describes as situated in a desert region, particularly

towards Judaea, and only three or four days'

journey from Jericho (p. 779). The approach to

Egypt from the east, towards Phoenice and Judaea,

was difficult by way of Pelusium, but from

Arabia Nabataea it was easy. All these and

similar notices serve to show that, from the age of

Antigonus to this period, the Nabataei had in-

♦

