VIA FLAMINIA. 1301 VIA LATINA.

rary with the construction of the highroad itself:

it was judiciously placed just at the entrance of the

Apennines, where the passage of those mountains

may be considered to have commenced. Thence

the highway followed nearly the same line as the

modern road from Foiigno to Fano, skirting the

main ridge of the Apennines, and the principal sta­

tions can be identified without difficulty. It passed

by Helvillnm (Sigillo), crossed the central ridge of

the Apennines at La Schieggia (probably Ad Ensem

of the Tabula), and descended into the valley of the

Cantiano, a tributary of the Metaurns, passing by

Calea or Calles (Cagli), Intercisa (the Potto del

Furlo), and emerging into the valley of the Me­

taurns at Forum Sempronii (Fauombronc), whence

it descended the coarse of that river to Fanuin

Fortnnae (Fano) on the Adriatic, and thence along

the coast to Ariminum (Rimini), where it joined

the Via Aemilia.

We may now recapitulate the distances as given,

first, in the Antonine Itinerary (p. 125):—

From Rome to

Rostrata Villa - - - -

xziv. M.P.

Ocriculum ( Otricoli)

xxi.

Namia ( A oral) . . .

xii.

Ad Martis (near Maun) -

xvi.

Mevania (Bevagna) -

xvi.

Nuceria (A'ocera) ...

xviii.

Helrillnm (Sigillo) -

xiv.

Calms (Cagli)

xxiii.

Forum Sempmnii (Fottombrone)

xviii.

Fanum Fortunae (Fano) -

xvi.

Pisaurum (Paaro) - - -

viii.

Ariminum (Rimini)

xxiv.

These distances are all approximately correct.

The stations are given more in detail in the Jeru­

salem Itinerary (p. 613), as follow.—

From Rome to

Ad Hubras (Prima Porta) - - ix.M.r.

Ad Vicesimum . - - xi.

Aqna \'n*(0iteria detf Acqua Vim) xii.

Ociiculum (Otriooli) ... xii.

Namia (Xarni) .... xii.

Interamna (Temi) ... viii.

Tres Tabernae .... iii.

Fanum Fngitivi (Monte Somma) - x.

Spoletium (SpoUto) ... vii.

Sacraria (Le Vent) ... viii.

Trebia (TVeri) - - - - iv.

Fnlginium (Foiigno) - - - v.

Forum Flauiinii (S. Gio. in Fori-

Jiamma) .... iii.

Nuceria (A'ocera) ... xii

Ptaniae, probably T»diuum( (j'muWo) viii.

Herbellonium (?) - - - vii.

Ad Ensem (Im Schieggia) - - x.

Ad Calem (Cagli) ... xiv.

Intercisa (II Furlo) - - - ix.

Forum Sempronii (/ossom&roiie) - ix.

Ad Octavum - - - - ix.

Fanum Fortunae (Fano) - - viii.

PUaurum (Paaro) ... viii.

Ariminum (Rimini) ... xxiv.

The whole distance from Rome to Ariminum ac-

rording to this Itinerary is therefore 222 miles, while

he Antonine (following the more direct line) makes

1210 miles. The Tabula adds nothing to our know-

edge of this route; and the distances are much less

rorrect than in the other two Itineraries.

The branch of the Flaminian Way which struck

>ff from the main line at Nuceria and crossed the

Apennines direct to Ancona, is thus given in the

Antonine Itinerary (p. 311):—

From Nuceria to

Dubii(?) .... viii. M. P.

Prolaqueum (Pioraco) - - viii.

Septempeda (S. Sererino) - - XT.

Traia (Ku. near Treia) - ix.

Auximum (Otimo) - - xviii.

Ancona ..... xii.

Thence a road was carried along the coast by

Sena Gallica to Fanum Fortnnae, where it rejoined

the main line of the Via Flaminia. The stations

were:—

Ad Aesim fl. (R. Etino) - - viii. xt. P.

Sena Gallica (Sinigaglia) - - xii.

Ad Pirum (?) - - • viii.

Fanum Fortunae (Fano) - - viii.

All the above distances appear to be at least ap­

proximately correct. (For a full and careful ex­

amination of the line of the Via Flaminia, and the

distances of the stations upon it, see DAnville,

Analyte Geographique dt tllalie, pp. 147—

162.) |E.H. B.]

VIA LABICANA (?j Augural U6t) was one of

the highroads that issued from the Porta Esquilina at

Rome. It was evidently originally nothing more than

a road that led to the ancient city of Labicum (16

miles from Rome), but was subsequently continued

in the same direction, and, after sweeping round the

E. foot of the Alban bills, it joined the Via l.atina

at the station Ad Pictas, in the plain between them

and the Volacian mountains. (Strab. v. p. 237.)

This route was in many respects more conve­

nient than the proper Via Latina, as it avoided the

ascent and descent of the Alban lulls: and hence it

appears to have become, in the later ages of the Em­

pire, the more frequented road of the two; so that the

Antonine Itinerary gives the Via Labicana as the

regular highroad from Rome to Bene ven turn, and after­

wards gives the Via Latina as falling into it. (/tin.

Ant. pp. 304, 306.) But this is decidedly opposed

to the testimony of Strabo (L e.), and the usage of the

Augustan age, which is generally followed by modern

writers. Hence the Via Labicana will be here

given only as far as the point where it joins the

Latina.

The stations set down in the Antonine Itinerary

are merely—

From Rome to Ad Quintanas - - xr. u. p.

Ad Pictas - - X.

The Tabula subdivides the latter stage into two;

vis., Ad Statuas, iii. M. I'., and thence to Ad Pictas,

vii. ; thus confirming the distance in toe Itinerary.

The station Ad Quintanas was undoubtedly situated

at the foot of the hill on which stands the village of

La Colmna, occupying the site of the ancient

Labicum. The line of the ancient road from Rome

thither followed nearly the same course, though with

fewer windings, as the modern road to Palettrina

and Valmontone. It is described in the article

Labicum. [E. H. It.J

VIA LATINA (ii Aariri) Mis) was one of the

principal of the numerous highroads that issued from

the gates of Rome, and probably one of the most an-

cient of them. Hence we have no account of the time

of its construction, and it was doubtless long in use

as a means of communication before it was paved

and converted into a regular highroad. Some road

or other must always have existed between Rome

and Toscnlum; while again beyond the Alban hills

the valley of the Sacco (Trerus) is one of the

4 o 3

