SICILIA. 979 SICILIA.

il »ere thus restored to at least nominal freedom.

I limilar revolution occurred a few years later at

•nriK, where, on the death of Hieron (b. c. 467),

* power paaaed into the hands of Thrasybulus,  
tiw violent and tyrannical proceedings quickly

L.iied an insurrection among the Syracusans. This

,xne the signal for a general revolt of all the

:k3 a Sicily, who united their forces with those of

r Syracoaana, and succeeded in expelling Thrasy-

ihai fro u his strongholds of Ortygia and Achradina

)ul xl 67, 68), and thus driving him from

Hr fill of the Gclonian dynasty at Syracuse

.0.466) became for a time the occasion of violent

Bnal dissensions in most of the Sicilian cities,

txh it many cafes broke out into actual warfare.

1 after a few years these were terminated by a

ml congress and compromise, B. c 461; the

<a were allowed to return to their respective

Camarina, which had been destroyed by

ka, was re peopled and became once more a flour-

in; city; while Catana was restored to its (ri­

al Chalcidic citizens, and resumed its ancient

w (Hod, xi. 76). The tranquillity thus re-

ib>?bed was of unusual permanence and duration;

lae half century that followed was a period of

rnutest prosperity for all the Greek cities in the

il. and was doubtless that when they attained

the exception of Syracuse) their highest

im of opulence and power. This is distinctly

"d by Diodurus (/. c.) and is remarkably confirmed

bt itiii existing monuments,—all the greatest ar-

rtaral works being referable to this period. Of

mi of government established in the Sicilian

i at this time we have little information, but it

ti certain that a democratic constitution was in

at all instances substituted for the original

indue*.

at prosperous as this period (B.C. 461—409)

abtedly waft, it was by no means one of un-

ic tranquillity. It was disturbed in the first

noe by the ambitious schemes of Ducetius, a

ha chief, who endeavoured to organise all the

■ </ the interior into one confederacy, which

i be able to make head against the Greek

lie at the same time founded a new city, to

i he gave the name of Police, near the sacred

an of the t'aiici. But these attempts of

Iraa, remarkable as the only instance in the

1 boAtory of the island in which we find the

i attempting to establish a political power of

<rwa, were frustrated by his defeat and banish-

by the Syracusans in n. c. 451; and though

st men returned to Sicily and endeavoured to

tsh silQself on the N. coast of the island, his

u were interrupted by Ins death, b. c. 445.

L xi. 88, 90—92, xii. 8, 29.) He found no

m*; and the Sicels of the interior ceased to

to the Greek cities. Many of their

actually reduced to subjection by the

while others retained their independent

a>, but the operation of Hellenic influences

itself throughout the whole

> next important event in the history of Sicily

> great Athenian expedition in u. c. 415.

ry, at an earlier period, soon after the outbreak

rViopurjrjeaian War, the Athenians had inter-

0 the affairs of Sicily, and, in B. c. 427, had

1 squadron under Laches and Charoeades to

r. the look or Chalcidic cities in the island,

which were threatened by their more powerful Dori°

neighbours. But the operations of these commanders'

as well as of Eurymedon and Sophocles, who fol­

lowed tli.'in in B. c. 425 with a large force, were of

an unimportant character, and in B. c. 424 a general

pacification of the Greek cities in Sicily was brought

about by a congress held at Gela (Thuc. iv. 58,

65). But the peace thus concluded did not remain

long unbroken. The Syracusans took advantage <•

the intestine dissensions at Leontini to expel the

democratic party from that city: while the Selinun-

tines were engaged in war with their non-Hellenic

neighbours the Segestans, whom they pressed so

hard that the latter were forced to apply for assis­

tance to Athens. The Leontine exiles also sued for

aid in the same quarter, and the Athenians, who

were at this time at the height of their power, sent

out an expedition on the largest scale, nominally for

the protection of their allies in Sicily, but in reality,

as Thucydides observes, in hopes of making them­

selves masters of the whole island (Thuc. vi. 6).

It is impossible here to relate in detail the jt i-

ceedings of that celebrated expedition, which will

be more fully noticed in the article Sybacusae, and

are admirably related in Grote's History of Greece,

vol. viii. ch. 58—60. Its failure may be attributed

in great measure to the delays and inactivity of

Nicias, who lingered at Catana, instead of proceed­

ing at once to besiege Syracuse itself, and thus gavo

the Syracusans time to strengthen and enlarge their

fortifications, at the same time that they revived the.

courage of their allies. The siege of Syracuse was

not actually commenced till the spring of 414 B. c,

and it was continued till the month of September,

413 B.C., with the most unremitting exertions on

both sides. The Syracusans were supported by the

chief Dorian cities in the island, with the exception

of Agrigcntutn, which stood aloof from the contest,

as well as by a portion of the Sicel tribes : but the

greater part of those barbarians, as well as the

Chalcidic cities of Naxos and Catana and the S

tans, furnished assistance to the Athenians (Thuc.

vii. 57, 58).

The total defeat of the Athenian armament (by

far the most formidable that had been seen in Sicily

since that of the Carthaginians under Hamilcar),

seemed to give an irresistible predominance to the

Dorian cities in the island, and to Syracuse especi­

ally. But it was not long before they sgain found

themselves threatened by a still more powerful

invader. The Seiinuntines immediately took advan­

tage of the failure of the Athenians to renew their

attacks upon their neighbours of Segesta, and the

latter, feeling their inability to cope with them, nour

applied for protection to Carthage. It is remarkable

that we hear nothing of Carthaginian intervention

in the affairs of Sicily from the time of the battle of

Himera until this occasion, and they seem to hare

abandoned all ambitious projects connected with

the island, though they still maintained a footing

there by means of their subject or dependent towns

of Panormus, Motya, and Soluntum. But they now

determined to avail themselves of the opportunity

offered them, and sent an armament to Sicily, which

seemed like that of the Athenians, calculated not

so much for the relief of Segesta as for the conquest

of the whole island. Hannibal, the grandson of Ha­

milcar who had been slain at Himera, laniVo ll

Lilybaeum, in B . C. 409, with an anny estimated at

100,000 mt o and inarching straight upon Selinus,

laid siege a nee to the city. Selinus was at this

3 B 2

