506 PHIGALIX PUIGAUA.

(Paus. viii. 39. §§ 4, ">.) In n.c, ."7:> Phi^alia

whh rent asunder by hostile tactions; and the sup­

porters of the Lacedaemonian party, being expelled

trom tlie city, took possession ot' a fortress in The

neighbourhood named Heraca, from which they made

excursions against Phigaltti. (l)iod, xv. 40.) In

the wars between the Actolians and Achacans, Phi-

pilia became for some time the head quarters of the

Aetoliaii troops, who from thence [(hindered Mes-

senia, till they were at length driven out by Philip ',

of Macedon. (Polyb. iv. 3, seqM 79, seq.) The i

Phiffa leans possessed several peculiar customs, re- i

sj>cctiivz which Harmodius of Lepreuin wrote a special

work. This author relates that tliey were piven to

excess both in eating and drinking, to which their

cold and ungenial climate may perhaps have con­

tributed. (Allien, iv. p. U9, X. [). 442.)

Phigalia was still u place of importance when

visited by Pausanias. He describes it as situated

upon a lofty and precipitous hill, the greater part

of the wall.-, being built upon the rocks. Tliere are

still considerable remains of the ancient walls above

the modern village of Pdvlitza. The city was up­

wards of two miles in circumference. The rock,

upon which it stood, slopes down towards the Neda;

on the western side it is bounded by a ravine and

on the eastern by the torrent Lymax, which flows

into the Neda. The walls arc of the usual thick­

ness, faced with masonry of the second order, and

filled in the middle with rubble. On the summit

of the acropolis within the walls are the remains of

a detached citadel, SO yards in length, containing a

round tower at the extremity, measuring 18 feet in

the interior diameter. In ancient times a temple of j

Artemis Sotcira stood on thp summit of the acnqwilis.

On the slope of the mountain lay the gymnasium J

.mil the temple of Dionysus Acratophorua ; and on |

the ground below, where the village of upper Pav-'

Viizti stands, was the agora,adorned with a statue of

the pancratiast Arrachi"n, who lost his life in the

Olviupic games, and with the sepulchre of the- Ores-

thasians, who perished to restore the Phigaleans to

their native city. (Paus. mh. .'19. 6, 40. $ 1.)

Upon a rock, difficult of access, near the union of

the Lymax and the Neda, was a temple of Kurv-

nome, supposed to be a surname of Artemis, which

was opened only once a year. In the same neigh­

bourhood, and at the distance of 1:2 stadia from the

cily, were some warm baths, traces of which, ac­

cording to the French Commission, are visible at the

village of Tratfoi, but the waters have long ceased

to flow. (Pans. viii. 41. ^ 4, snj.)

Phi gal ia was surrounded by mountains, of which

Pausanias mentions two by name, Cotilium (t<!»

KwtiAioi') and Klakum (rb 'EXdt'ov), the former

to the left of the city, at the distance of 30 stadia,

and the latter to the right at the di^;^ nf $

stadia. As Cotilium lies to the XE. of l^caiu,

and Pausanias in this description stem to ftM

looked towards the east, Mt. Elaeum should prifttiiT

be placed on the opposite side of PhhaluL Mil cvc*-

quently to the south of the Neda, in which aw d

would correspond to the lofty mountain at Ki.r*k

Mt. Kl;ieuir. contained a cavern Ntered to bVnwto

the lilaek. situated in a gTove of oaks. Of 1*1 po­

sition of Mt. Cotilium there is no doubt On it m

situated the temple of Apollo Lpicurius, *kn'n n»

built in the Peloponnestan War by ktinus, tkartfei-

tect of the Parthenon at Athens. It was uwitdW

the Pliigaleans in consequence of the rtwi afi'fW

by Apollo during the plague in tlie Fel 'p<iD?siB

War, whence he received the surname of Lu^urim

The temple stood in a place called Ba;sat. tad lb

cording to Pausanias excelled all the trtnHeJ 4

Peloponnesus, except that of Athena A lea *: T^M

in the beauty of the stone and the accuracy fl£4

masonry. He particularly mentions that the M

was of stone as well as the rest of the liti'm

(Paus. viii. 41. §§ 7, 8.) This temple suUtwma"

almost entire, and is next to the Thescium at A:i<a

the best preserved of the temples of Gne». 1

stands in a glen (whence the name Bo^ai, ft*

for Bi]<j(Ti], B);t?(jai) near the summit d Ml 0

tiliuin, in the midst of a wilderness oi r.*i

studded with old knotty oaks. An eyt-*itn«i

marks that "there is certainly no renuuuil <i t

architectural splendour of Grtwe iik*t nk

lated to fascinate the imagination than thttta.^

whether by its own size and beauty, by tin* ctfjn

it offers to the wild desolation of the aorryaa*

scenery, or the extent and variety of the pray

from its site." (Mure, Tour in Gnrcc, rah a.

270.) A spring rises about 10 minutes SW.rfl

temple, and soon afterwards loses itself in the r**

as Pausanias has described. North of

was the highest summit of the mountain, whuai

reaches in 10 minutes* time by a bread ru*if

strutted by the Greeks. This summit «

Cotilura (KcmAop), whence the whole mvJUfliaJ

rived the name of Cotilian; here va^ a ixrti

of Aphrodite, of which there are still mm tn

The grandeur of the ruins of the temple lav* ci

to the whole of the surrounding district the ~*a

the Columns (arobi (rri'Aous or *coA6rroi*j.

temple is at least two hours and a bait ii,-"C

ruins of the city, and consequently more thaa

40 stadia, which Pausanias mentions as tin aal

from Phipilia to Cotilium; but this di»:ae<*

haps applies to the nearest part uf the Bw*

from the city.

In modem times the temple remained lone or Vn

except to the shepherd* of the country.

O Q © Q

Q

0 "|

•

9 m 1

Iff! f

•

uicoi'SD rus or the ti:mi i.k ok atcllo at i-.as&a_£.

