MTNTUKNAE. 361 MISENUM.

to execute his task; and hereupon the magistrates

determined to send Marius away, and put him on

tram" a ship which conveyed him to Africa. (Plut.

Mar.36—39; Appian,B. C. i. 61,62; Veil. Pat. ii.

19; Val. Max. i. 5. § 5. ii. 10. § 6; Liv. Epit. Ixxvii.;

Juv. x. 276; Cic. pro Plane. 10, pro Sext. 22.)

We hear little more of Mintnmae under the Re­

public, though from ita position on the Appian Way

it is repeatedly noticed incidentally by Cicero (ad

At', v. 1, 3, vii. 13, xvi. 10.) It still retained in

hi« time the title of a colony; bnt received a ma­

terial accession from a fresh body of colonists esta­

blished there by Augustus ; and again at a later

pmod under Caligula. (Lib. Colon, p. 235; Hy-

gin. at Limit, p. 178; Zumpt, de Colon, p. 355.)

We find it in consequence distinguished both by

Pliny and Ptolemy by the title of a colony, as well

u in inscriptions (Plin. iii. 5. 8. 9; Ptol. iii. 1. §

63; Orell. Inter. 3762; Mommsen, /. R. N. 4058

—4061): and notwithstanding its unhealthy situ­

ation, which is alluded to by Ovid, who calk it

"Minturnae graves" (Met. xv. 716), it appears to

have continued throughout the Roman Empire to

luve been a flourishing and important town. Its

pnsperity is attested by numerous inscriptions, as

»ell as by tlie ruins still existing on the site.

These comprise the extensive remains of an amphi­

theatre, of an aqueduct which served to bring water

from the neighbouring hills, and the substructions

of a temple, as well as portions of the ancient walls

and towers. (Romunelli, vol. iii. p. 430; Eustace,

Classical Tpur, vol. ii. p. 318.) All these remains

are on the right bank of the Liris, but according to

PliiiT the city extended itself on both sides of the

riTer; and it is certain that its territory comprised

a considerable extent on both banks of the Liris.

(Hygin. de Limit, p. 178.) The period of its de­

struction is unknown: we find it still mentioned in

Prueopius (B. G. iii. 26) as a city, and apparently

a pUre of some strength; but at the commence­

ment of the middle apes all trace of it is lost, and

il was probably destroyed either by the Lombards or

Saracens. The inhabitants seem to have withdrawn

to the site of the modern Trajetto, a village on a

bill about 1J mile distant, the name of which is

•broody derived from the passage of the Liris (Ad

Tnjectuin), though wholly inapplicable to its pre­

sent more elevated position.

Between Mintnmae and the sea-coast, at the

rneath of the Liris, was the celebrated grove of

Marica [Leers Maiuoae], with a temple or shrine

ef the goddess of that name, which seems to have

tooted a great reputation for sanctity. (Plut.

Mar. 39; &trab. v. p. 233.) She appears to have

heen properly a local divinity; at least we do not

meet with ber worship under that name any where

eUe in Italy; though many writers called her the

nether of Latinns, and others, perhaps on that very

arivant, identified her with Circe. (Virg. Aen. vii.

*': Serv. ad loc.; Laclant. Inst. Die. i. 21.) We  
naj probably conclude that she was connected with

the old Latin religion; and this will explain the

veneration with which her grove and temple were

Tinied, not only by the inhabitants of Minturnae,

Ui' by the Romans themselves. Frequent allusions

t» 'hen are found in the Latin poets, but always in

'Iree connection with Minturnae and the Liris.

(Uor. Cam. in. 17. 7; Lucan. ii. 424: Martial,

x£- 63; Clandian, Prob. et 01. Cons. 259).

.Siralo calls Minturnae about 80 stadia from For-

"«, and the same distance from Sinuessa: the

Itineraries give the distance in each case as 9 miles.

(Strab. v. p. 233; /tin. Ant. pp. 108, 121.) After

crossing the Liris a branch road quitted the Appian

Wray on the left, and led by Suessa to Teanum,

where it joined the Via Latina. [E. H. B.]

Ml'NYA (Minia), a city of Thessaly, said by

Stephanus B. (». v.) to have been formerly cnlled

Ualmonia ('AAjiacfa), and to have derived its name

from Minyas. It is mentioned by Pliny (iv. 8. s. 15)

under the name of Almon, and in conjunction with

Orchomenus Minyeus in Thessaly. (See Miiller,

Orchomenos vnd die Minyer, p. 244, 2nd ed.)

Ml'NYAE (Mryvar), an ancient race in Greece,

Raid to have been descended from Minyas, the son

of Orchomenus, who originally dwelt in Thessaly,

and afterwards migrated into Boeotin, and founded

Orchomenus. [For details see Orchomenus.]

Most of the Argonautic heroes were Minyae; and

some of them having settled in the island of Lemnos,

continued to be called Minyae. These Lemnian

Minyae were driven out of the island by the Tyr­

rhenian Pelasgians, and took refuge in Lacedaemon,

from whence some of them migrated to Thera, and

others to Triphylia in Elis, where they founded

the six Triphylian cities. (Herod, iv. 145—148.)

[Eus, p. 818.]

MINYEIUS (Mirurjiov), the ancient name of the

river Anigrus in Elis. (Horn. II. xi. 721.) [Ani-

qrus.]

MIKOBRIGA (MipoSprya). 1. Also called

Mkrobrica (Plin. iv. 12. s. 35; Coins), a town of

the Celtici in Lusitania, upon the Ocean (Ptol. ii. 5.

§ 6), identified by some with Odemira. by others

with Sines. (Mentelle, Esp. Anc. p. 260 ; Ukert,

il 1. p. 390.)

2. A Roman municipium, in the territory of the

Turduli, in Hispnnia Baetica, on the road from

Emerita to Caesaraugnsta, now Capilh, N. of

Fuente Ovejuna. (Ptol. ii. 4. § 13; Plin. iii. 1.

s. 3; It. Anton, p. 444; Inscr. Gruter, pp. 76,

257.)

3. A town of the Oretani, in Hispania Tarraco-

nensis, mentioned only by Ptolemy (ii. 6. § 59).

MISE'NUM (Mio-timS*), was the name of a re­

markable promontory on the coast of Campania (Ml-

bkxum Promoktorium, Tac. Ann. xiv. 4; some­

times also Miskni Promoktorium. Liv. xxiv. 13;

to Mttivvbv (ucffov, Strab.: Capo di Afiseno), to­

gether with the adjacent jwrt (Portus Misenvs,

Flor. i. 16), and a town which grew up adjoining it,

after the harbour had become the station of the

Roman fleet. The promontory of Misennm forms the

northern limit of the celebrated gulf called the Crater

or Sinus Cumanus (the Bay of Naples). It is an

almost isolated headland, forming a hill of consider­

able elevation, and of a somewhat pyramidal form,

joined to the mainland opposite to Procida only by a

narrow strip of low land, between which and the con­

tinuation of the coast by Bauli and Baiae is a deep

inlet forming the harbour or port of Misenum (Strub.

v. p. 243). A large stagnant pool or basin, still

deeper in, now called the Mare Morto, communi­

cated with this outer port by a very narrow entrance,

which could be closed by a bridge or causeway. It

is probable that the headland of Misenum itself at

one time formed part of the encircling heights of the

crater of a long extinct volcano, of which the Mare

Morto occupies the centre, and the Monte di Pro~

cida (as the headland opposite to the island of that

name is now called) constituted the opposite margin.

(Daubeny On Volcanoes, p. 202, 2nd edit.)

