RHINOCOKURA. 709

■ irtich may be read with the articles Bata-

■ Ivscut, Flxvo Lacus, Fossa Corhulo-

I*a Mosella, and Gallia Traxsalpixa.

t/nl>, .Vance, <fc, " Rhenos "; Penny Cy-

ia, art."Rhine"; and Ukert, Gallien,—who

ur.1*l all the ancient and many modem au-

ft) [G. L]

tNTS (Raw), a river of Gallia Cispadana,

■ ti the southern tributaries of the Padua.

A. 16. a SO.) It flowed within about a mile

nJ!> of Bononia (Bologna), on the W. side

dy, tod is celebrated in history on account

BArvitw between Antony, Octavian. and Le-

ifcieft is generally believed to have taken place

all uUad formed by its waters. [Boxoxia.]

wiras in the Apennines nearly 50 miles

Wyw. and is a considerable stream, though

ly Slim Ittlicus " parvus," to distinguish it

■ f" crater namesake, the Rhine. (Sil. Ital.

i I In the time of Pliny it is probable that

ai^al its waters into the principal channel of

if, tat at the present day they are turned

i' u artificial channel before reaching that

al are thus carried into the arm now known

ft di Primaro. Hence the mouth of that

•J the To is now called the Face tUl Raw.

>,:, oi that the reeds which grew on the banks

throat were superior to ail others for making

(Mia. xri. 56. a. 65.) [E. H. B.J

bALSA(T.Viu«, Ptol. v. 18. § 13; 'PeWo,

In; Amm. Marc, xxxii. 5; Ressaina,

; Haus, XoliL Imp.: Etk. 'Ptaiydrni,

1. r.), a town of considerable importance

rU.x extremity of Mesopotamia ; it was si-

■v the sources of the Chaboras (Khabur), on

a raj which led from Carrhae to Nicepho-

88 miles from Kisibis and 40 from

(hasp. P. ji. 19, de Atdif. ii. 2.) It

r Has town that Gordian the Younger fell in

*Ha the Persians. (Amm. Marc. /. e.) A  
<• J the emperor Dec i us. bearing the legend

WA. PHCAINHCinN., which may in all

•7 he referred to this town. In the Notit.

■ f-ia is subject to the government of the

**os» (Sotit. Dign. ed. Bex-king, i. p. 400),  
■•atsp of Resaina is mentioned among those

scribed their names at the Council of Nicaea.

ft-^i-woi, tho town appears to have been

"twit, and to have received the title of

■wroua. (Hierocl. p. 793.) There can

that it is at present represented by

*>». a considerable entrepot of commerce  
P^-nce of IHarbebr. It was nearly de-

ky the troops of Timur, in ad. 1393.

M. Diet. Orient. I p. 140, iii. p. 112;

,10.390.) [V.]

con or RBESAEXA.

a mountain of Germany, mentioned

Puns, Mela (iii. 3), along with Mount

A* so particulars arc stated it is impos­

sible to identify it, and German writers are so divided

in their opinions that some take Rhetico to be the

name of the Siebengebirge, near Bonn, while others

identify it with a mountain in the Tirol. [L. S.]

RHIDAGUS (Curt. vi. 4. § 7), a river of Hyr-

cania, which flows from the mountains NW. to the

Caspian. Alexander crossed it on his march in

pursuit of Dareius. It appears to be the same as

the Choatres of Ammianus (xxiii. 24), and may

perhaps be represented by the present Adjisu. [V.J

RHINOCORU'RA or RHINOCOLU'RA {Pan.

idpoupa, Polyb. Ptol. Joseph.; 'PiyonraAo^pj, Strab.:

Eth. 'PiroKovpiupoi, 'VivoKovpovpWni), a maritime

city on the confines of Egypt and Palestine, and con­

sequently reckoned sometimes to one country, some­

times to the other. Strabo, going south, reckons

Gaza, Raphia, Rhinocolura (xri. p. 759); Polybius,

going north, reckons it to Egypt, calling Raphia the

first city of Coelcsyria (v. 80). Ptolemy also

reckons it to Egypt, and places it in the district of

Cassiotis (iv. A. § 12), between Ostracine and An-

thedon. The Itinerarinm Antonini (p. 151) places

it xxii. M.P. south of Rafia, and the same distance

north of Ostracena. The following curious account

of its origin and name is given by Diodorus Siculus.

Actisanes, king of Aethiopia, having conquered

Egypt, with a view to the suppression of crime in his

newly-acquired dominion, collected together all the

suspected thieves in the country, and, after judicial

conviction, cut off their noses and sent them to

colonise a city which he had built for them on the

extremity of the desert, called, from their mishap,

Rhinocolura (quasi btvos Ko\ovi>ot=curti, al. b. fcet-

l>ao6at), situated on the confines of Egypt and Syria,

near the shore; and from its situation destitute of

nearly all the necessaries of life. The soil around it

was salt, and the small supply of well water within

the walls was bitter. Necessity, the mother of

invention, led the inhabitants to adopt the following

novel expedient for their sustenance.' They col­

lected a quantity of reeds, and, splitting them very

fine, they wove them into nets, which they stretched

for many stadia along the sea-shore, and so snared

targe quantities of quails as they came in vast,

flights from the sea (i. 60). Strabo copies this ac­

count of its origin (/. c); Seneca ascribes the act

to a Persian king, and assigns the city to Syria

(<4r Ira, iii. 20). Strabo (xvu p. 781) mentions it

as having been the great emporium of Indian and

Arabian merchandise, which was discharged at

Leuce Come, on the eastern coast of the Red Sea,

whence it was conveyed, via Petra, to Rhinocolura,

and thence dispersed to all quarters. In his day,

however, the tide of commerce flowed chiefly down

the Nile to Alexandria. The name occurs in Jose-

phus, but unconnected with any important event.

It is known to the ancient ecclesiastical writers as

the division between the possessions of the sons of

Noah. S. Jerome states that the " River of Egypt"

flowed between this city and Pelusium (Upland,

Palaett. pp. 285, 286, 969—972); and in one pas­

sage the I.XX. translate "the Kiver of Egypt"

by Rhinocoruni. (Itaiuh, xxvii. 12.) It is re­

markable that this penal colony, founded for muti­

lated convicts,should have become fruitful in saints;

and its worthy and exemplary bishop Melas, in the

time of the Arian persecution, who was succeeded by

his brother Solon, became the founder of a succession

of religious men, which, according to the testimony

of Sozomen, continued to his time. (Hist. Kcclts.

'vii. 31.) Khinocorura is now El-Aritk, as the

z z 3

