ROMA. 791

\ fcrthf for.finti.ilion tint the new curia stood

a tit ancient spot is found in the fact that down to

■ ■ litest period of the Empire that spot continued to

• toe site of the senate-house. The last time that

ia nude of the Curia Julia is in the reign of

(* Consensu (senatus) nt consules non in

j i .1 . x al'.itnr. mM in C;tpitc.lium C'Oll-

'snat,* Sott. CaL 60); and as we know that the

sna was rebuilt by Domitian, the Julia must hare

-s burnt down either in the fire of Nero, or more  
tr-Mj in that which occurred nnder Titus. It is

< itery, as Becker supposes (Handb. p. 347), that

-puus and Titus would have suffered an old  
■I important building like the curia to lie in

asi whilst they were erecting their new amphi-

esire and baths. The new structure of Domitian,

t--.. Snsanar in the later Latin (" Senatum dici et

• toco ft pro bominibus," Gell. xviii. 7, S), is men­

ses' by several authorities (Hieronym. an. 92. i.

443. ad. Rone; Caasiod. CMron. iL; 197; Catal.

f. ITeaa. p. -J i.l. i The place of this seuatus

:: - : from its being close tofhe little temple

Jans Geminns, the index belli pecisque (« vk

(• lores) ir rp iyopa wpb rov

Procop. B. G. i. 25); and hence from

;*-.timity to Numa's sarelluin it was sometimes

ni • Carta Pompiliana" (Vopisc. Aurel. 41,

id 3.) The aatne situation is confirmed by other

tsa. Thus Dion Cassius mentions that Didius

ansa, when he first entered the curia as emperor,

taVwd ta the Janus which stood before the doors

ns. IS). In the same manner we find it men-

si ia the Sotitia in the viiith Region. That it

ipssd thai sit* of the ancient church of S. Mar- I

- i- t!y iKiikitM tu and now known as  
ara ess* to the arch of Scverus, appears from

asrriativo (Gruter, clxx. 5) which formerly

■K in the Ambo, or hemicycle, of 5. Martina,

rap that this hemicycle, which was afterwards

the church, originally formed the Secre-

si Srnatns (Urlichs, Horn. Top. p. 37, scq.;

sr, Rufiumem, p. 142.) The Janus temple

i as have been known in the middle ages nn-

apprlLstioa of tempbim fatale, by which it is

arsed ia the Mfirabilia Vrbis. (" Juxta cum

tsos tatals in & Martina, juxta quod est tem-

rrfaxli, L e., S. Adrianus," lb.) In the same

> rtsoud was a place called in the later ages

Paiaaam," which also connects the senatus

rkst apot, as being both near to that place and

• Arena Sereri. Thus Ammianus: "Deinde

au nrbem Tbeodoricus, venit ad Senatum, et

ifssas popolo allnquutus," &c {Kxcerpl.de

u» i And in the .It-M SX, Mni. vii. p. 12:

nwrust ri rjnvntaa a tergo et decollarerunt extra

Jra et extrsJientes jactaverunt eum juxta

•vmnrphi ad PaJroam." (cf. Anastas. V. Si/1, c.

The appellation "ad Pi I mam " was derived

.'.star of Claudius II. clothed in the tunica

a which stood here: "Illi totius orbis judicio

frfjew. east columns cum palmata status

(Treb. Pollio, Claud, c. 2.)

doubt, therefore, that the curia or

i faoslt by Domitian was near the arch of

t arkgeb ia indeed admitted by Becker him-

i pt 35."> y. But, from his having taken

of the situation of the comitium, he

tain that this was altogether a

hence his curia undergoes no

changes of situation, receiving a

every time that it was rebuilt,

namely, first, on the N. side of his comitium,

secondly on the S. side, and thirdly near the

Arcus Severi, for which last site the evidence is

too overwhelming to be rejected. We trust thst

our view is more consistent, in which the senate-

house, as was most probable, appears to have always

retained its original position. And this result we

take to be no slight confirmation of tho correctness

of the site which we have assigned to the comitium.

In their multitudinous variations, Bunsen and BecktT

are sore puzzled to find a place for their second

curia—the Julia—on their comitium, to which the

passages before cited from Pliny and Dion inevi­

tably fix them. Bunsen's strange notions have been

sufficiently refuted by Becker {Handb. p. 333), and

we need not therefore examine them here. But

though Becker has succeeded in overthrowing the

hypothesis of his predecessor, he has not been able

to establish one of his own in its place. In fact he

gives it up. Thus he says (p. 335) that, in the

absence of all adequate authority, he will not ven­

ture to fix the site of the curia ; yet ho thinks it

probable that it may have stood where the three

columns are; or if that will not answer, then it

must be placed on the (his) Vulcanal. Bnt his

complaint of the want of authorities is unfounded.

If he had correctly interpreted them, and placed the

comitium in its right situation, and if he had given

due credit to an author like Dion Cassius when he

says (I.c.) that it was determined to rebuild the Cu­

ria Hostilia, he had not needed to go about seeking

for impossible places on which to put his Curia Julia-

There are three other objects near the forum into

which, from their close connection with the Basilica

Julia, we must inquire at the same time. These are

the Chalcidicim, the I.mj'Khiai. Grakcostasis,

and a Temple of Minerva. We have already 6een

that the first of these buildings is recorded in the Mo-

mtmentum Aneyranum as erected by Augustus ad­

joining the curia; and the same edifice is also

mentioned by Dion Cassius among the works of

Augustus: t6 rt }A6^vatoy «ral to XaAfciSi/rov

wvoLiatrutvuv, Kal TO f&ovKtirrfipiov, rh 'louKittov, to

inl rov Ttarpbf airrov riLiij ytySfitvov, KaBUpwat*

(li. 22). But regarding what manner of thing the

Chalcidicum was, there is a great diversity of

opinion. It is one of those names which have never

been sufficiently explained; but it was |«rhaps a

sort of portico, or covered walk (deambulatorium),

annexed to the curia. Bunsen, as we have men­

tioned when treating of the temple of Castor in the

preceding section, considers the Athenaeum and

Chalcidicum to have been identical; and as the

Nutitia mentions an Atrium Minervae in the 8th

Region, and as a Minerva Chalcidica is recorded

among tho buildings of Domitian, he assumes that

these were tho same, and that the unlucky ruin of

the three columns, which has been so transmuted by

the topographers, belonged to it. In all which we

can only wonder at the uncritical spirit that could

have suggested such an idea; for in the first place

the Monumenlum Ancyranuvi very distinctly sepa­

rates the aedes Minervae, built by Augustus, from

the Chalcidicum, by mentioning it at a distance of

five lines apart; secondly, the aedes Minervae is

represented to be on the Aventine, where we find

one mentioned in the Xotitia (cf. Ov. Fast, vu 728;

Festus, v. Q'tintjuatnu, p. 257, Miill.), and conse­

quently a long way from the curia and its ad­

joining Chalcidicum; thirdly, they are also men­

tioned separately by Dion Cassius in the passage

3b 4

