134 L ATI I'M. LATIUM.

nucssa wns already regarded as included in Latium;

and the former author nowhere alludes to tho Liris

as the boundary.

III. Physical Gkoorapiit.

The land of the Latins, or Latium in its original

sense, fonned the southern part of the great basin

through which the Tiber flows totlie sea, and which is

hounded by theCiminian Hills,and other ranees of vol­

canic hills connected with them, towards the N.,by tho

Apennines on the E., and by the Alban Hills on the

S. Tho latter, however, do not form a continuous

barrier, being in fact an isolated group of volcanic

origin, separated by a considerable gap from the

Apennines on the one side, while on the other tbey

leave a broad strip of low plain between their lowest

slopes and the sea, which is continued on in the

broad expanse of level and marshy ground, com­

monly known as the Pontine Marshes, extending in

a broad band between the Volscian mountains and

tho tea, until it is suddenly and abruptly terminated

by the isolated mass of the Circeian promontory.

The great basin-like tract thus bounded is divided

into two portions by the Tiber, of which the one on

the N. of that river belongs to Southern Etruria,

ami is not comprised in our present subject.

[Etkiria.] The southern part, now known as the

CoMpagna di lioma, may be regarded as a broad ex­

panse of undulatory plain, extending from tho sea-

c«*st to the foot of the Apennines, which rise from it

abruptly like a gigantic wall to a height of from

3000 to 4000 feet, their highest summits even ex­

ceeding the latter elevation. The Monte Gennaro,

(4285 English feet in height) is one of the loftiest

summits of this range, and, from the boldness with

which it ri>es from the subjacent plain, and its

advanced position, appears, when viewed from the

Campngna, the most elevated of all; but, according

to Sir W. (Jell, it is exceeded in actual height both

by the Monte Pennecchio, a little to the NE. of it,

and by the Monte di Guadagnolo. the central peak

of the group of mountains which rise immediately

above Pracncate or Palrstrina, The citadel of Prae­

neste itself occupies a very elevated position, f fining

a kind of outwork or advanced post of the chain of

Apennines, which here trends away suddenly to the

eastward, sweeping round by Genazzana, Olecntio,

and Hnjate, till it resumes its general SE. direction,

and is continued on by the lofty ranges of the Iler-

nican mountains, which bound the valley of the

Sacco on the E. and continue unbroken to the valley

of the Liris.

Opposite to Praeneste, and separated from it by a

breadth of nearly 5 miles of intervening plain, ri*cs the

isolated group of the Alban mountains, the form of

which at once proves its volcanic origin. [Albaki'S

Mdkm.] It is a neaily circular mass, of about 40

miles in circumference; and may be conceived as

forming a great crater, the outer ridge of which has

been broken up into numerous more or l«*ss detached

summits, several of which were crowned in ancient

timet by towns or fortresses, such as Tusculum,

Corbio, Ac; while at a lower level it throws out

detached oftMionts, or outlying ridges, affording ad­

vantageous sites for towns, and which were accord­

ingly occupied by those of Wlitrae, Lanuvium, Alba

Longa, Ate. The group of the Alban mountains is

wholly detached on all sides: on the S. a strip of

plain, of much the same breadth as that which sepa­

rated it from tlte Apennines of Praeneste, divides it

'ruin the subordinate, but very lofty mass of aioun-

tains, commonly known as the Monti Lepini, or

Volscian mountains. This group, which forms an

outlying mass of the Apennines, srpcirated from the

main chain of those mountains by the broad valley

of the Trerus or Sacco} rises in a bold and imposing

mass from the level of the Pontine Marshea, whit a

it borders throughout their whole extent, until tt

reaches the sea at Tarracina, and from that place

to tlic mouth of the Liris sends down a succosj <i

of mountain headlands to the sea, constituting a

great natural barrier between the plains of Latium

and those of Campania. The highest summits if

this group, which consists, like the more central

Apennines, wholly of limestone, attain an elevation

of nearly 5000 feet above the sea: the whole tnaae

tills up almost the entire space between the valley

of the Trerus and the Pontine Marshes, a bread to

of from 12 to 16 miles; with a length of near 40

miles from Monte Fortino at its N. extremity to

the sea at Ttrracina; but the whole distance, from

Monte Fortino to tho end of the mountain chain

near the mouth of the Liris, exceeds 60 mi lea. The

greater part of this rugged mountain tract belonged

from a very early period to the Volscian*, but the

Latins, as already mentioned, possessed several

towns, as Siguia, Cora, Norba, &c.t which were built

on projecting point* or underfills of the uiaiu

chain.

But though the plains of Latium are thus strongly

characterised, when compared with the group* of

mountains ;ust described, it must not be supposed

that they constitute an unbroken plain, still less a

level alluvial tract like those of Northern Italy.

The Campagnaof Home,as it is called at the present

day, is a country of wholly different character from

the ancient Campania. It is a broad undulating

tract, never rising into considerable elevation*, tut

presenting much more variety of ground than would

be suspected from the general uniformity of its ap­

pearance, and irregularly intersected iu all direcUun*

by numerous streams, which have cut for themselves

deep channels or ravines through the soft volcanic

tufo of which the soil is composed, leaving on each

side steep and often precipitous banks. The bright

of these, and the depth of the valleys or ravinr*

which are bounded by them, vary greatly iu dirTrrrnt

parts of the Campagna ; but besides these local and

irregular fluctuations, there is a general rise (I hooch

so gradual as to be imperceptible to the eye) in the

level of the plain towards the K. and SE.; so that,

as it approaches Praeneste, it really attains to a

considerable elevation, and the river course* which

intersect the plain in nearly parallel linen betwmi

that city and the Anio become deep and narrow

ravines of the most formidable description. Even in

the lower and more level part* of the Campngna

the sites of ancient cities will be generally found to

occupy spaces bounded to a considerable extrtit —

frequently on three sides out of four—by strrp banks

of tufo rock, affording natural means of draenee,

which could be easily strengthened by the simps*

expedient of cutting away the face of the rocky hank,

so as to render it altogether inacces»ibla. The pe­

culiar configuration of the Campngna resulting fn«n

these causes is well rpprveuied «»u Sir W. Geh •

map, the only one which gives at all a faithful aka

of the physical geography of Latium.

The volcanic origin of the greater part of Latiern

has a material influence upon its physical character

and condition. 1 he Alban mountains, as already

mentioned, are unquestionably a great volcanic sum

