954 SELEUCEIA.

SELEUCEIA.

carefully executed plan, with drawings and sections

of the tunnels, Ac, has lately been published by Cap­

tain Allen, who surveyed the site of the harbour, but

not of the town, in 1850. {The ftetul Sea, <fc, Map

at end of vol. i., and vol. ii. pp. 208—230.) [G. W.J

COIN OF SELEUCEIA IN* SYKIA.

SELEUCEIA or SELEUCIA (2eA€i'«em.) I.

A town near the northern frontier of Pisidia,

Bumamed Sid era (t/ 2i5fjpa, Ptol. v. 5. § 4; Hierocl.

p. 673), probably on account of iron-works in its

vicinity. There are some coins of this place with

the image of the Asiatic divinity Men, who was wor­

shipped at Antioch, and bearing tlie inscription KAau-

Si(T(reAeu«:ea'i', which might lead to the idea that

tlte place was restored by the emperor Claudius.

(Sestini, Man. Vet. p. 96.) Its site is now occupied

by the town of Ejerdir.

2. A town in Paniphylia between Side and the

mouth of the river Eurymedon, at a distance of

80 stadia from Side, and at some distance from the

sea. (Stadt'asm. Mar. Mag. § 216.)

3. An important town of Cilicia, in a fertile plain

on the western bank of the Calycadnns, a few miles

above its mouth, was founded by Seleucus L, sur-

named Nicator. A town or towns, however, had

previously existed on the spot under the names of

Olbia and Hyria, and Seleucus seems to have only |

extended and united them in one town under the

name Seleacia. The inhabitants of the neighbouring

Holmi were at the same time transferred to the new

town, which was well built, and in a style very

different from that of other Cilichm and Pamphylian

cities. (Steph. Ii. s. ?>.: Strab. adv. p. 670.) In

situation, climate, and the richness of its productions,

it rivalled the neighbouring Tarsus, and it was

much frequented on account of the annual celebra­

tion of tiic Olympia. and on account of the oracle of

Apollo. (Zosim. i. 57: Basil. Vita S. Theclae, i. p.

27"), Orat xxvii. p. 148.) Pliny (v. 27) states

that it was surnamed Tracheotis; and snine ecclesi­

astical historians, speaking of a council held there,

call the town simply Trachea (Soaom. iv. 16; S>crat.

ii. 39; comp. Ptol. v. 8. § 5; Atnm. Marc. xiv. 25;

Oros. vii. 12.) The town still exists under the

name of Selefk'teh, and its ancient remains are

scattered over a large extent of ground on the

west side of the Calycadnus. The chief remain*

are those of a theatre, in the front of which there

are considerable ruins, with porticoes and other

large buildings: farther on are the ruins of a

temple, which had been converted into a Chris­

tian church, and several large Corinthian co­

lumns. Ancient Seleuceia, which appears to have

remained a free city ever since the time of Augustus,

remained in the same condition even after a great

portion of Cilicia was given to An helaus of Cappa-

docia, whence both imj>erial and autonomous coins

of the place are found. Seleuceia was the birthplace

of several men of eminence, smdi as the peripatetics

Atheuaeus and Xenarchus, who flourished in the

reign of Augustus, and the sophist Alexxtfa, vW

taught at Antioch. and was private &m*Mrr tat]

cmt-cmr M. Aurelios (Philostr. Vit. Sua*, a!

According to some authorities, lastly, the i

Trajan died at Seleuceia (Eutmp. riii. 1 H: i

t. c.)t though others state that he died at Srisem

COIN OF SELEI'CEIA IS CIUCIA.

4. Srleucia in Caria [ I kai.les.] [LI

SELEUCEIA or SELEUCIA (2#Aa*tVP

v. 48; Strab. si. p. 521; Ptoi. v. 18. § &). at

city near the right bank of the Tunis, l

distinguish it from several other towns of the I

name, is generally known in history by tha I

Ht\tvK(ia tnl rca TiyfrrjTi. (Strab. xri. a. 71

Appian, Syr. 57.) It was built by Seleacas I

(Mrab. Lc\ riin. vi. 26. s. 30; TaciL U

42; Joseph. Ant Jud. xviiL 9. § 8; Aram. |

xxiii. 20), and appears to have been placed l

junction with the Tigris, of the peat dyki*

was carried across Mesopotamia frun the Y

to the Tigris, and which bore the name of i

Malcha (the roval river). (PUn. i c.

Char. p. 5.) Ptolemy states that the arttf

divided it into two parts (v. 19. § 8).

other hand. Theophylact states that both l

Tigris and Euphrates, surrounded it like ai

— by the latter, in all probability,

Xahar Malcha (v. 6). It was situated aboox 4

NE. of Babylon (according to Strabo, 9001

and to the tab. Peutinger., 44 M P.). 1st

original structure is said to have retenibkd I

with its wings outspread. (Pirn. L c.)

mainly constructed of materials hr uch; rrtm

Ion, and was one principal cause of the run

elder city, as Ctesiphon was (some cmtaril

of Seleuceia itself. (Strab. xri. p. 738.)

placed in a district of great fertility,

in its best days, to have had

600,000 persons. (Plin./.c.) Strabo

was even larger than Antiocheia Svnae,-

probably the greatest commercial

East, with the exception of Alexandra* (ni fJ%

Even so lute as the period of its

population is still stated to have ama

million. (Eutrop, v. 8; enmp. Oroa. vii. i

its commercial importance it doubtless 1

character of its local government, which I

have been administered by means of a

300 citizens. Polybius states that, oo tat t

throw of M<don, the Median rebels An

Hermeias descended on Seleocria, wh

previously taken by Mokm, and, after

people by torture and the infliction of i

exiled the local magistracy, wh» wen caJkafJ

ganae. ('A&ttyavat, Polyb. v. 54.) Their I

freed nm and of independent ^orernmeiit «i

of longer duration. (Plin. L c.; Tacit. A%

Seleuceia owed its ruin to the wi

Romans with the P.irtbians and

nations. It is first noticed in thai I

and Orodes (Dion Cass. xl. 20); bat it j

