598 PHILAE. PIHLAE.

Pint. h. tt Os!r. p. 359; Diod. i. 22). It was re-

ported ton that neither birds hVw over it nor fish

approached its shores. (Senec. Quae&L Nat iv. 2.)

These indeed were the traditions of a remote period;

since in the time of the Macedonian kings of Aegypt

Philae was so much resorted to, partly by pilgrims

to the tomb of Osiris, partly by persona on secular

errands, that the priests petitioned Ptolemy Physcon

(b.c. 170—117) to prohibit public functionaries at

least from coming thither and living at their expense.

The obelisk on which this petition was engraved

w:is brought into England by Mr. Bankes, and its

hieroglyphics, compared with those of the Unset ta

Htone, threw great light npon the Aegyptian pho­

netic alphabet. The islands of Philae were not,

however, mcrtdy sacerdotal abodes; they were the

centres of commerce also* between Me roe and Mem­

phis. For the rapids of the cataracts were at m<<st

seasons impracticable, and the commodities ex­

changed between Aegypt and Aethiopia were reci­

procally landed and re-embarked at Syene and

Pliilae. The neighbouring granite-quarries attracted

hither also a numerous population of miners and

stonemasons; and, for the convenience of this traffic,

a gallery or road was formed in the roeks along the

K bank of the Nile, portions of which are still ex­

tant. Philae is also remarkable for the singular

♦■fleets of light and shade resulting from its position

near the tropic of Cancer, As the sun approaches

its northern limit the shadows from the projecting

cornices and mouldings of the temples sink lower

and lower down the plain surfaces of the walls,

until, the sun having reached its highest altitude,

the vertical walls are overspread with dark shadows,

forming a striking contrast with the fierce light

which embatlies all surrounding objects, (liitter,

Erdkande, vol. i. p. 680, soq.)

The hieroglyphic name of the smaller island is

Philak, or boundary. As their southern frontier, the

Pharaohs of Aegypt kept there a strong garrison,

and, for the same reason, it was a barrack aho for

Macedonian anil K oman soldiers.

The most, conspicuous feature of both islands its

their architectural wealth. Monuments of very

various eras, extending from lite Pharaohs to the

Caesars, occupy nearly their whole area. The prin­

cipal structures, however, lie at the S. end of the

smaller island. The most ancient, at present dis­

covered, are the remains of a temple of Alitor

(Aphrodite), built in the reign of Kectanebus. The

other ruins are for the most part coeval with the

Ptolemaic times, more especially with the reigns of

Philadelphia, Kpiphanes, and Philometor (b. c. 282

—14")), with many traces of Roman work as recent

as Claudius 1. (a. d. 41—54). The chief temple

in Philae, dedicated to Amnion-Osiris, was a]>-

proadied from the river through a double colonnade.

In front of the propyla were two colossal lions in

granite, behind which stood a pair of obelisks, each

44 feet high. The propyla were pyramidal in

form and colossal in dimensions. One stood between

the dromos and pronaos, another between the pro-

naos and the jtortieo, while a smaller one led into

the sekos or adytum. At each corner of the ady­

tum stood a monolithal shrine, the cage of a sacred

hawk. Of these shrines one is now in the Louvre,

the other in the Museum at Florence. Right and

left of the entrance into the principal court are two

small temples or rather chapels, one of which, dedi­

cated to Athor, is covered with sculptures represent­

ing the birth of Ptolemy Philometor, under the figure

of the god Ilorus. The story of Osiris ■ ntrt-

| where represented on the walls of this temple, sad

two of its inner chambers are particularly nek is

i symbolic imagery. L'j>on the tw<j great propyl* in

Greek inscriptions intersected and partiallydestrwi

by Aegyptian figures cut across there. Tbe »•

script ions belong to the Macedonian era, ud arerf

earlier date than the sculptures, which were |r>

, bably inserted during that interval of renjucefw ftf

the native religion which followed the erriTKUrcrf

i the Greek dynasty in Aegypt (b.c. 30.) Tii

monuments in both islands indeed attest, beyood m}

others in the Nile-valley, tbe survival ut pat

Aegyptian art centuries after the last ot tie Pla*

raofis had ceased to reign. Great pains bin tM

taken to mutilate the sculptures of this teak

The work of demolition is attributable, in the fitfl

! instance, to the seal of the early Christians, id

afterwards to the policy of tbe Iconot lasts, »!* a*1

I ried favour for themselves with the Byzantinee*«t

by the destruction of heathen as well as Cnri*«

images. The soil of Philae was carefully preja-fdl*

the reception of its buildings, — being leveiied »i*tt

it was uneven, and supported by ma*onry whew a

was crumbling or insecure. For example, the «£-

era wall of the Great Temple, and tlie cwre-jiiiN

. ing wall of tlie dromos, are supported by vrry ar-jeff

'foundations, built below the level of the w*ier

resting on the granite which in this region fonTntia

bi d of the Nile. Here and there steps are b?m *

, from the wall to facilitate the communicatta: is*

tween the temple and the river.

At tlie S. extremity of the dromon of the Gral

j Temple is a smaller temple, apparently dedicated »

| lsis; at least the few columns which remain t - r*

.surmounted with the head of that godde* I*

portico consists of twelve columns, four in fpffli aJ

three deep. Their capitals represent varnis M«

and combinations of the palm-branch., the die—

and the lotus-flower. These, as well a» the tc4?

tures on the columns, the ceilings, and the walit.**

painted with the most vivid colours, which. s*n|

'to tlie dryness of the climate, have lost Utile U t>«

| original brilliance.

Philae was a seat of the Christian reDci« ■

well as of the ancient Aegyptian faith. Ruumrf'

i Christian church are still visible, aad men tt* •

adytum bears traces of baring been made to srrrri

different eras the purposes of a chapel of tJexru *

of Christ. For a more particular acc^uta •

architectural remains of Philae we most ret^r tl

reader to the works of De'non, Gau, RlwIIku, Sa

segger, and Hamilton (Aegyptiacay Tbe Mt

has minutely described this is-Uud—the Lccws*

ancient Aegypt. Tbe Greek inscriptions f tfc*

are transcribed and elucidated by Letroan*.

A little W. of Philae lies a larger island, acorf

called Snem or Scnmut, but now by tbe Ar&2» iHrf

It is very precipitous, and from its mmX

peak affords a tine view of the Nile, trotn rto s«a*

I surface S. of the islands to its plumre over the *J>*^

of rock that form the First Cataract. Phiiae,

and another leaser island, divide the nw atu It

principal streams, and N. of them it tarn a

turn to the W. and then to tbe X.. where toe ctfOB

I begins. Btghe, like Philae, was a bciv i imi

; rocks are inscribed with the n»mee and ottki

Amunoph III., Rameaeat the Great, Psmrruuusij

| A pries, and Amasis, together with m«ncr«j

i the Macedonian and Human rulers of Aef£~pt> i

principal ruins consist of the prupyhm *mi 9

