VEDINUM. VEU. 1261

VEDIXUSI (t'uW), a city of Venetia,mentioned

nlj by 1'liny (iii. 19. s. 23) among the uiunici-

niitiw of that country. It was situated in the

>iai» of the Carni, 11 miles \V. of Cicidu!e (Forum

jiii), and 22 NNW. of Aquileia. In Pliny's time

I was apparently an inconsiderable place, but ruse

;to iiiipoitau.ee in the middle agea, and is now a

^uriibing and populous city, and the capital of the

rb<>le province of the Friuli. Many MSS. of Pliny

• hit the name Kedinateti, which has been adopted

ita by Harduin and Sillig, but it is probable that

ht old reading Vedinalea is correct. [E. 11. B.]

VEI>KA (OWSea, Ptol. ii. 3. § 6), a river in the

I. put of the E. coast of Britannia. The name

ruuki lead us to the conclusion that it is the Wear

CuiiJen, p. 944), yet Horaley (p. 103) and others

ave taken it to be the Tynt. [T. U. D.]

VKG1A (Oueyia or Ou'«Tla), or Vegilm (Plin.

ii. 21. a. 25), a town of Liburuia, the present

oso. [T. H. D.]

VE01STUSI {Oiiiurrov), or, as some read, Ve-

*>uud (0»«««tof), a town of Oalatia, in the  
rrr.tory of toe Tolistobog'i, between Mounts Didymua

ml Celaenus (PtoL v. 4. § 7), is perhaps the same

act as the Vetissuin of the Peutinger Table. [L. S.]

VEII (Oinjioi, Strab. v. p. 226; Ofool, Dionys. H.

54 : Eth. Veientes, Cic Div. i. 44 j Liv. i. 15, &C.:

Id;'. Veins (trisyL), Propert iv. 10. 31), an ancient

.: purely Tuscan city of Etruria. According to

atus {ap. P. Uiac. f. p.) Veia was an Oscan word,

signified a waggon (plaustrum); but there is

xl\i\'i tu hhow that this Has the etymology of the

.uue of the town.

Amoug the earlier Italian topographers, a great

ivtraity of opinion prevailed respecting the site of

Vii. Ksrdioi was tlie first writer who placed it at

present Imola Farnoe, the correctness of which

;cw is now uni versally admitted. The distance of that

."t ii rthwariis from Rome agrees with the distance

aicued hy Dionysius of liaticarnassus c.) to Veii,

amrly, *• about 100 stadia," which is confirmed by

nt Tabula Peut., where it is set down at 12 miles,

a Livy, indeed (v. 4), it is mentioned as being

• iiiiin tlie 20th milestonebut this is in a speech

I App. Claudius, when the orator is usin^ round

niiLvr*, and not solicitous about strict accuracy;

m^t the two writers before cited are professedly

'.hi; the exact distance. Nor can the authority of

^atropine (i. 4), who places Veii at 18 miles from

^u.i*. be admitted to invalidate the testimony of these

utbora, since Eutropius is notoriously incorrect in

-initujar* of this description. '1 here are other cir-  
iinsuncea which tend to show that Jsola Fanwse

'Uie site of ancient Veii. Thus the Tab. Peutiug.

ir'.iirr indieales lli.it the city lay on the Via Cassia,

i ■ » following that road for a distance of about 12

ileu from l!ume, the locality not only exactly cor-

-•puiids with the description of Dionysius, but also  
> remains of city walls and sepulchres, and traces

I r«*ui» in various directions, have been found there,

[.'.-ewer at the same spot were discovered, in the

™ 1810, stones bearing inscriptions which related

illusively to Veii and the Veientines.

He know little of the history of Veii but what

>r.<*-m* the wars it waged with the Bomans. It is

i'u-i by Eutropius (i. 20), >4 ciritas antiquissiina

lahae atque ditissima," and there can be no doubt

kat it was in a nourishing state at the time of the

umutH/n of Koine. At that period the Etruscan,

r Vesmtine, territory was separated from the Latin

< :!* river Albula, afterwards called Tiberis ; and

consequently neither the Muns Vaticanus nor Jani-

culensis then belonged to the Bomans. (Liv. i. 3.)

To the SVV. of Itome it extended along the right bank

of the Tiber down to the sea, where it contained some

Salinae, or salt-works, at the mouth of the river.

(Dionys. ii. 55.) The district immediately opposite

to Home seems to have been called Septem Pagi (lb.).

On the N. of Borne the territory of Veii must at one

time have extended as far as Mount Soracte, since

the ager Capenatis belonged to it, Capena being a

colony of Veii (Cato, ap. Serv. Aen. vii. 697); though

in the history of the wars between Borne and Veii,

Capena appears as an independent city. [Cai-kna,

Vol. I. p. 504.] On the NW. it may probably have

stretched as far as the Mons Ciminus; but here, as

well as more to the S., its limits are uncertain, and

all we know is that in the latter direction it must

have been bounded by the territory of Caere. (Cf.

MUller, Etrutker, ii. 2. p. 1, &c.) The ager Vciens

is stigmatised by Horace and others as producing an

execrable sort of red wine (Sat. ii. 3. 143; cf. Pers.

v. 147; Mart, i. 103. 9, ii. 53. 4, &c.). We learn

from Dionysius (ii. 54) that the city was of about

the same size as Athens, and therefore nearly as

large as Borne within the walls of Servius. [Koma,

Vol. II. p. 756.]

The political constitution of Veii, like that of the

other Etruscan cities, seems originally to have been

republican, though probably aristocratically repub­

lican, with magistrates annually elected. It was

perhaps their vicinity to ambitions and aspiring Koine,

and the constant wars which they had to wage with

I that city, that induced the Veientines to adopt the

I form of an elective monarchy, in order to avoid the

dissensions occasioned by the election of annual ma­

gistrates under their original constitution, and thus

to be enabled, under a single leader, to act with more

vigour abroad; bnt this step procured them the ill-

'will of the rest of the Etruscan confederacy (Liv. v.

1, cf. iv. 17). Monarchy, however, does not appear

to have been permanent among them; and we only

'know the names of two or three of their kiugs, as

Tulumnius (ib), Pmpertius (Serv. Ac*, vii. 697),

and Morrius (Ik. viii. 285).

The first time that the Veientes appear in history

is in the war which they waged with Romulus in

order, to avenge the capture of their colony, Fidenae.

According to the narrative of Livy, this war was

terminated by one decisive battle in which Romulus

was victorious (i. 15); but Dionysius (ii. 54, seq.)

speaks of two engagements, and represents the Bo­

mans as gaining the second by a stratagem. Both

these writers, however, agree with regard to the re­

sults of the campaign. The loss of the Veientines

was so terrible, both in the battle and in the sub­

sequent flight, in which numbers of them were .

drowned in attempting to swim the Tiber, that they

were constrained to sue fur peace. The terms im­

posed upon them by Romulus show the decisive

nature of his victory. They were compelled to sur­

render that part of their territory in the neighbour­

hood of Rome called Septem Pap, probably from ita

containing seven villages; to give up the salt-works

which they possessed at tlie mouth of the Tiber;

and to provide 50 hostages as security for the due

execution of tlie treaty. Ou these conditions they

obtained a peace for 100 years, with the restoration

of their prisoners; though such of the latter as pre­

ferred to remain at Rome were presented with the

freedom of the city and lands on the left bank of the

Tiber. The district of Septem Pagi thus acquired

