90 ITALIA. ITALIA.

jttnple, belonged nil those nations that had submitted

to Hume upon any other terms than those of citizen­

ship; and the treaties (foedera), which determined

their relations to the central power, included almost

every variety, from a condition of nominal equality

and independence (aequum foedus), to one of the

mitat complete subjection. Thus we find Heraclea

in Lucania, Neapolis in Campania, and the Camertes

in LTmbria, noticed as possessing particularly tavour-

able treaties (Cie. pro Bulb. 8, 20, 22); and even

some of the cities of Latium itself, which had not

received the Horn an civitas, continued to maintain

this nominal independence long after they had be­

come virtually subject to the power of Rome. Thus,

even in the days of Polybius, a Roman citizen might

retire into exile at Tibur or Praeneste (Pol. Ti. 14;

Liv. xliii. 2), and the poor and decayed town of

Laurentum went through the form of annually

renewing its treaty with Koine down to the clti.se of

the Republic. (Liv. viii. 11.) Nor was this in­

dependence merely nominal: though politically de-

juMidenl upon Rome, and compelled to fellow her lead

in their external relations, and to furnish their eon-

tingent of troop* for the wars, of which the dominant

republic alone reaped the benefit, many of the cities

of Italy continued to enjoy the absolute control of

their own affairs and internal regulations; the troops

which they were bound by their treaty to furnish

were not enrolled with the legions, but fought under

their own standards as auxiliaries; they retained

their own laws as well as courts of judicature, and,

even when the Lex Julia conferred U]«>n ail the

Italian allies the privileges of the Roman civitas, it

w as necessary that each city should adopt it. by an

act of its own. (Cic. pro Balb. 8.) Nearly in the

same position with the dependent allies, however

different in their origin, were the so-called '* Coloniae

Latiuae;'" that is, Roman colonies which did not

enjoy the rights of Roman citizenship, but stood in

the same relation to the Roman state that the cities

of the Latin League had formerly done. The name

was, doubtless, derived from a period when these

colonies were actually sent out in common by the

Romans and Latins; but settlements on similar

terms continued to be founded by the Romans alone,

long after the extinction of the Latin League; and.

before the Social War, the Latin colonies included

many of the most flourishing and important towns

of Italy. (For a list of them, with the dates of

their foundation, see Madvig, de Coloniis, I. e.;

Motnmsen, ROmische Mum-Wesen, pp. 230—234:

and Marquardt, /. c. p. 33.) These colonies are

justly regarded by Livy as one of the main supports

of the Republic during the Second Runic War (Liv.

xxvii, 9, 10), and, doubtless, proved one of the most

effectual means of consolidating the Roman dominion

in Italy. After the dissolution of the Latin League,

B. c. 338, these Latin colonies (with the few cities

of Latium that, like Tibur and Praeneste, still re­

tained their separate organisation) formed the "no-

men Lat num." or body of the Latins. The close

connection of these with the allies explains the fre­

quent recurrence of the phrase ** socii et nomen

Latinum" throughout the later books of Livy, and

in other authors in reference to the same period.

A great and general change in the relations pre­

viously subsisting between the Italian states and

Rome was introduced by the Social War (it. c. 90—

89). and the settlement which took place in conse­

quence of it. Great as were the dangers with which

Rome was threatened by the formidable coalition of

those who had so long been her bravest defenders,

they would have been stiil more alarming had the

whole Italian people taken part in it. But the aiile*

who then rose in anus against Rome were almost

exclusively the Sabellians and their kindred races.

The Etruscans and Umbrians stood aloof, while lh<?

Sabines, Latins, VoUcians, and other tribes who bad

already received the Roman fninclii.se, supported the

Republic, and furnished the materials of her armies.

But the senate hastened to secure those who were

wavering, as well :ls to disarm a portion at least ut

the openly disaffected, by the gift of the Roman

lranchise, including the full privileges of citizen*:

and this was subsequently extended to every one uf

the allies in succession as they submitted. Then;

is some uncertainty as to the precise steps by which

this was effected, but the Lex Julia, passed in the

year 90 B.C., appears to have conferred the franchise

upon the Latins (the "nomen Latinum," as above

defined) and all the allies who were willing to accept

the boon. The Lex Plautia Papiria, pissed the

following year, b. c. 89, completed the arrangement

thus begun. (Cic. pro Bulb. 8, pro Arch. 4 ; A.

Gell. iv. 4; Appian, B. C. i. 49; Veil. Pat. ii. 16.)

By the change thus effected the distinction be­

tween the Latins and the allies, as well as between

those two classes and the Roman citizens, was entirely

done away with ; and the Latin colonies lapsed into

the condition of ordinary municipia. At the same

time that all the free inhabitants of Italy, as the

term was then understood (i. e. Italy S. of the Macra

and Rubicon), thus received the full rights of Roman

citizens, the same boon was granted to the inhabit­

ants of Gallia Cispndana, while the Transjudaui

appear to have been at the same time raised to the

condition and privileges of Latins, that is to say,

were placed on the same footing as if all their towns

had been Latin colonies. (Ascon. in Puon. p. 3, ed.

Orell.; Savigny, Vennischte Schrifteny vol. in. pp.

290—308 ; Marquardt, J/undb. vol. in. pt. i. p. 48.)

'This peculiar arrangement, by which the Jus Lalii

was revived at the very time that it became naturally

extinct in the rest of Italy, is more fully explained

under Gallia Cisam'LNa. In B. C. 49, after the

outbreak of the Civil War, Caesar be.stuwod the full

franchise upon the Tratisjadani also (Dion Cass,

xli. 36); and from this time all the free inhabitant*

of Italy became united under one common cla>s as

citizens of Rome.

The Italians thus admitted to the franchise were

all ultimately enrolled in the thirty-five Rom.m

tribes. The principle on which this was done we

know not; but we learn that each munic ipiuni. and

sometimes even a larger district, was assigned to a

particular tribe: so that every citften of Arpinum.

for instance, would belong to the Cornelian tribe, of

Beneventum to the Stellatine, of Brixia to the Fa­

bian, of Ticinum to the Papian, and so on.* Bat in

so doing, all regard to that geographical distribution

of the tribes which was undoubtedly kept in view

in their first institution was necessarily lost ; and

we have not sufficient materials for attempting to

determine how the distribution was made. A know­

ledge of it must, however, have been of esstntul

ini]>ortance so long as the Republic continued ; and

* This did not, however, interfere with the per­  
sonal right, where this previously existed, so that a

Roman citizen already belonging to another tribe,

who settled himself in any municipiuxn, retained bis

own tribe.

