56 1NTERAMNA. INTERCISA.

course of the Nar, so that it should no longer flow

into the Tiber. (Tac. Ann. L 79.) In the civil war

between Yltellius and Vespasian it was occupied by

the troops of the former while their head-quarters

were at Naniia, but was taken witii little resistance

by Arrius Varus. (Id. Hist. iii. 61, 63.) Inscrip­

tions sufficiently attest the continued municipal im­

portance of Interanina under the Roman empire; and,

though its position was some miles to the right of

the great Flaminian highway, whicli proceeded from

Naniia direct to Mevania (Strab. v. p. 227; Tac

Hut. ii. 64), a branch line of road was carried from

Naniia by Interanma and Spoletium to Forum Fla-

minii, where it rejoined the main highroad. This

line, which followed very nearly thai of the present

highroad from Home to Ptrwjia^ appears to have

latterly become the more important of the two, and

is riven in the Antoninc and Jerusalem Itineraries

to the exclusion of the true Via Flaminia. (/Jin,

Ant. p. 125; /tin. Hier. p. 613; Tub. Petit.) The

great richness of the meadows belonging to lnter­

arnna on the banks of the Nar is celebrated by Pliny,

who tells us that they were cut for hay no less than

f >ur times in the year (Piin. xviii. 28. s. 67); and

Tacitus also represents the same district as among

the most fertile in Italy (Tac, Ann. i. 79). That

great historian himself is generally considered as a

native of lnterarnna, but without any distinct au*

thority: it appears, however, to have been subse­

quently the patrimonial residence, and probably the

birthplace, of his descendants, the two emperors Ta­

citus and Florinnus. (Vopisc Fturian. 2.) In A.i>.

193, it was at Interanina that a deputation from

the senate met the emperor Septimius Severus, when

on his inarch to the capital (Spartian. Sever. 6);

and at a later period (a. i>. 253) it was there that

the two emperors, Trebunianus Gall us and his sou Vo-

luaianus, who were on their march to oppose Aemili-

anuainMoesia^wcrc put to death by their own soldiers.

(Kutrop. ix. 5; Vict. Cats, 31, EpiL'M.)

IntcruinnA became tlie see of a bishop in very

early times, and has subsisted without interruption

through the middle ages on its present site; the

name being gradually corrupted into its modern form

of Term, It is still a nourishing city, and retains

various relics of its ancient importance, including the

remains of an amphitheatre, of two temples supposed

t<> have been dedicated to the sun and to Hercules,

and some portions of the ancient Thermae. None of

these ruins are, however, of much importance or in-

tt-rrst Many inscriptions have also been discovered

on the site, and are preserved in the Palazzo Publico.

About 3 rnil»»s above Terni is the celebrated cas­

cade of the Velinus, which owes its origin to the

Roman M\ Curiua; it is more fully noticed under

the article Velixvs.

3. (Teritmo), a city of Picenum, in the territory

of the Praetutii, and probably the chief place in the

district of that people. The name is omitted by

Pliny, but is found in Ptolemy, who distinctly assigns

it U> the Praetutii; mod it is mentioned also in the

Liber Coloniarum among the "Civiutcs Piceni."

It there bears the epithet of ** Palest ina," or, as the

name U elsewhere written, " Paletina;" the origin

and meaning of which are wholly unknown. (Ptol. iii.

1. § 58; LA. Col pp. 226, 259.) In the genuine

fragment* of Fruntimis, on the other hand, the citi­

zens are correctly designated a» " Intcramuatea Prae-

tutiani." (Frootin. i. p. 18, ed. Lachin.) Being si­

tuated in the interior of the country, at a distance

from the highroads, the name it nut found in the

Itineraries, but we know that it was an episcopal

see and a place of some importance under the Ro­

man empire. The name is already corrupted in our

MSS. of the Liber Coloniaruni into Teramne, whence

its modern form of Tt-ramo. But in the middle

ages it appears to have been known also by the

name of Aprutium, supposed to be a corruption of

Praetutiuin, or rather of the name of the people

Praetutii, applied (as was so often the case in Gaul)

to their chief city. Thus we find the name of Abru-

tium among the cities of Picenum enumerated by

the Geographer of Ravenna (iv. 31); and under tlie

Lombards we find mention of a "comes AprutiL"

The mime has been retained in that of Abruzzo. n>*w

given to tho two northernm<*t provinces of the

kingdom of Naples, of one of which, called Abruzzo

Ulteriore, the city of Teramo is still the capital.

Vestiges of the ancient theatre, of baths and other

buildings of Itoman date, as well as statues, altars,

and other ancient remains, have been discovered on

the site: numerous inscriptions have been also hmi*d,

in one of which the citizens arc designated as *" In-

teramnites Praetutiani." (Romanelli, vol iii. pp.

297—301; Mommsen, /. R. A", pp. 329—331.)

There is no foundation for the existence of a fourth,

city of the name of lnterarnna among the Frentani,

as assumed by Romanelli, and, from him, by Cramer,

on the authority of a very apocrvphal inscription.

[Frentani.] [E.U.B.]

INTERAMNE'SIA (Phlegon. uV Ltmaaee. I:

EOt. Interatnnienses, Plin. iv. 21. s. 35), a stipen­

diary town of Lusitauia, named in the inscription of

Alcantara, and supposed by Ukert to have been

situated between the Coa and Touroes, near Cartel

Hotlrigo and Almeida, (Ukert, vol. ii. pt. 1.

p. 398.) [P-&]

INTERAMNIUM. [Astcrim.]

INTKRCATIA. [Vaccael]

INTERCISA or AD INTERCISA, is the name

given in the Itineraries to a station on the Via

Flaminia, which evidently derives this name from

its being situated at the remarkable tunnel or gallrrv

hewn through the rock, now known as the Passo del

Furlo. {/tin. I/ier. p. 614; Tab. PetU.) Thia

passage, which is still traversed by tho modern

highway from Rome to Fanof is a work of the em­

peror Ves|iasian, as an inscription cut in the rock

informs us, and was constructed in the seventh

year of his reign, a. d. 75. (Iuacr. ap. Cluvrr,

Itat. p. 619.) It is also noticed among tlie public

works of that emperor by Aurelius Victor, »ho calls

it Petra Pertusa; and the same name (lU'rpa vi^.

rowro) is given to it by Procopius, who has left us

a detailed and accurate description of the locality.

(Vict. Cue*. 9, EpiL 9; Procup. B. G. ii. 11.)

The valley of the Cantiano, a tributary of they

Metaurus, which is here followed by the Flamiutau

Way, u at this point so narrow that it is only by

cutting the road out of the solid rock that it can t«

carried along the face of the precipice, and, in addi­

tion to this, tlie rock iuelf is in one place pierced by

an arched gallery or tunnel, which gave rise to the

name of Petra Pertuaa. The actual tunnel is only

126 feet long, but the whole length of the pas* ia

about half a mile. Clandian alludes to this remark*

able work iu terms which prove the adtniratiun that

it excited. (Claud, de VI. Cons. Hon, soa.) At

a later period the pass was guarded by a fort, which,

from its completely commanding the Flamuiian Way,

became a military post of importance, and ia re­

peatedly mentioned during lite wan of the Goth*

