MINARIACUM. 350 MINIUS.

fladramovL Their country must have compre­

hended the eastern half of the territory of Yofa, and

the western half of the modern HadramauL 80

that Shibam and ferSm, and the tomb of IIml, and

the wells of Bariot (Ptolemy's source of the Styx),

which now form part of JIddramaut, pertained to

the Minaei. (Kitter, Erdbtmde von Arabien,

I pp. 278—284.) [G. W.]

MINARIACUM, in Belgica, is placed on a road

from Castellum (Cassel) to Turnacum (Tournai);

and a road also ran from Caslellum through Mina-

riacom to Nemetacum (Arras). The distance is

xi. (leagues) from Cassel, a well-known position, to

Minariacum. IVAnville contends that the geogra­

phers are mistaken in placing Minariacum at Mer-

gkm, or, as the French call it, Merville, on the river

Lw, instead of placing it at Esterre, also on the

Ljt. The distances as usual cause a difficulty, and

there is nothing else that decides the question. An

old Roman road leads from Cassel to Esterre^ and

Roman coins have been fonnd at Estcrre. [G. L.]

UNAS SABBATTHA (Metros SaGa-rfci, Zosim.

iii. 23), a small fortified work in Babylonia, which

Zcaiinus describes as, in his day, occupying the site

of the celebrated Parthian capital Ctesiphon. Abtil-

feda (p. 253) speaks of a place in the neighbourhood

called Sabatk. [V.]

MISA'TlCfM. in Belgica, is placed by the An-

tonine Itin. and the Table on a road from Bagacum

(Barai) to Durocortorum (Reims). It is placed

in the Itin. between Catusiacum (Chaours) and

Aaxenna or Axuenna. [Axuknna.] Catusineum

is omitted in the Table, and Mir.atjcum appears under

the firm Ninittaci, or Nintecasi, as D'Anville writes

it Here, as in some other cases, the name in the

Table appears to be more exact, for Ninittaci is

A'irj U Comte, which stands on an old Roman

road that leads from Chaours to Reims. [G. L.]

MrNCIUS (Miyntor: M'mcio), a considerable

river of Gallia Cisalpina, and one of the most im-

pwtant of the northern tributaries of the Padus.

(PUn. id. 16. s. 20, 19. s. 23; Strab. iv. p. 209.)

It has its sources in the Rhaetian Alps, at the foot

tf the Monte Tonaley from which it flows to the

Ukf Benacus, or Logo di Garda, which is formed

by the accumulation of its waters; from thence it

isvies again at Peschiera (the ancient Ardelica),

tfci has from thence a course of about 40 miles, till

h tills into the Po near Gorernolo, about 10 miles

«boT? Hostilia. In the upper part of its course it

« * mere mountain torrent; but after it leaves the

lake Benacus it is a deep and clear stream, which

holds a hiow and winding course through the low

•ai marshy plains of this part of Cisalpine Gaul.

It is characteristically described by Virgil, who

d*elt on its banks. (Virg. Eel. vii. 13, Georg.

fit 15. Aen. x. 206.) In the immediate neigh­

borhood of Mantua the waters of the Mincius

ftarnate, so as to form shallow hikes of considerable

I'fTit, which surround that city on three sides, the

fcarlh being also protected by artificial inundations.

A battle was fought on the banks of the Mincius

■ R.C. 197, between the consul Cornelius and the

<*rUwd fares of the Insnhres and Cenomani, in

*hko the latter were entirely defeated, and their  
fcader, the Carthaginian llamilcar, taken prisoner.

(I>. xxxii. 30.) At a murli later period it was

« the hanks of the Mincius, near its confluence

*Hh the Padus, at a place called by Jornandes  
ArpwratnB, Mamboleius, that the celebrated intcr-

▼*» took place between Poj« Leo I. and Attila,

which led the king of the Iluns to withdraw his

forces from Italy. (Jornand. Get. 42; P. Disc

Hist. Miscell. xv. p. 549.) [E. H. B.]

MIKERVAK PIIOMONTO'RIUM (to 'Aftfrcubr

axpwTii/»or, Strab.: Pvnta della Campanella), a pro­

montory on the coast of Campania, opposite to the

island of Capreae, forming the southern boundary of

the celebrated Crater or Bag of Naples. It is a

bold and rocky headland, constituting the extremity

of a mountain ridge, which branches off from the

main mass of the Apennines near Nuceria, anil forms

a great mountain promontory, about 25 miles in

length, which separates the Bag of Naples from that

of Pa est urn or Salerno. The actual headland de­

rived its name from a temple of Minerva, situated on

its summit, which was said to have been founded by

Ulysses (Strab. v. p. 247): it was separated by a

channel of only 3 miles in width from the island of

Capreae (Capri). On the S. side of the promontory,

but about 5 miles from the extreme headland, are

some small rocky islets now called Li GalU, very

bold and picturesque in appearance, which were se­

lected by tradition as the abode of the Sirens, and

hence named the Sirknusae Insllae (2*tpr)vuva-

oat yrtaot, Ptol. iii. 1. §79; Strab. v. p 247; Pseud.

Arist. Slirab. 110). From the proximity of these,

according to Strabo, the headland itself was some­

times called the Promontory of the Sirens (Zftpyvova--

awv cutpon^ptoy), but all other writers give it the

more usual appellation of Promontory of Minerva,

though Pliny adds that it had once been the abode

of the Sirens; and there was an ancient temple on

the side towards Surrentum in honour of thnse my­

thical beings, which had at one time been an object

of great veneration to the surrounding population.

(Strab. v. pp. 242, 247; Plin. iii. 5. a. 9; Pseud.

Arist /. c; Ovid. Met. xv. 709; Mel. ii. 4. § 9;

Liv. xlii. 20.) Tacitus in one passage calls the

headland Surrentinum Promontorium, from its prox­

imity to the town of Surrentum, from which it was

only 5 miles distant; and Statius also speaks of the

temple of Minerva as situated u in vertice Surrcn-

tino." (Tac Ann. iv. 67; Stat. Silv. v. 3. 165.)

The Promontory of Minerva is a point of consider­

able importance in the coast-line of Italy: hence we

find it selected in B.C. 181 as the point of demarca­

tion for the two squadrons which were appointed to

clear the sea of pirates; the one protecting the coasts

from thence to Massilia, the other tho>e on the S. as

far as the entrance of the Adriatic. (Liv. xl. 18.)

In B.C. 36 a part of the fleet of Augustus, under

Appius Claudius, on its voyage from Misenuin to

Sicily, encountered a tempest in passing this caj«,

from which it suffered heavy loss. (Appian, B. C.

v. 98.) It is mentioned also by Lucilius as a point

of importance in his vovage along the coast of Italv.

(Lucil. Sat. iii. Fr. 10.) [E. H. B.]'

MI'NIO (Mignone), a small river of Etruria,

flowing into the Tyrrhenian sea, between Centuin-

cellae (Civita Vecchia) and Graviscae, and about

3 miles S. of the mouth of the Maria, It is a trifling

stream, though noticed by Virgil, as well as by Ru-

tilius in his voyage along this coast; but Mela and

the Geographer of Ravenna are the only geofjraphiral

writers who deem it worthy of mention. (Virg. Aen.

x. 183; Scrv. ad loc.; Rutil. Itin. i. 279; Mel. ii.

4. § 9; Geogr. Rav. iv. 32.) [E. H. 11.]

MI'NIUS (Mfrioj: Minho), a river of Spain,

rising in the north of Gallaecia, in the Cantahrian

mountains, and falling into the Ocean. (Strab.

iii. p. 153.) Strabo erroneously says that it is the

A A 4

