TENESTAE. 573

a! tV emt-tm In now advanced far beyond its

am. Eats,» that the city, even in the third

r-:i7 immit least four miles from the Me-

omonv. The principal produce of the neigh-

Wrar laadi wit flu, and the lirram Pelosiacum

(Ha m. 1. a i) ra> both abundant aDd of a

«e» i* galny. It was, however, as a border-

fim a the frontier, as the key of Aegypt as

vorirf Srra tad the sea, and as a place of great

ArA tbt Pelusnm was roost remarkable,

fnr lu pcsiuoo h was directly exposed to attack

If o» iTiorn of Aegypt; several important battles

antxrkl inoerits walls, and it was often besieged

ad 'tkn. The following are the most memorable

Wj a the history of Peiosinm:

I SssaeSehb, king of Assyria, B. c. 720—715, in

•Hap «f Setboe the Aethiopian (25th dynasty)

SBrat fnm Palestine by the way of Libna and

Bfci 5pn Prittiutn, but retired without fight-

f f-*j War* its walls (Isaiah, xxxi. 8 ; Herod.

Ill; Stnb. xiH. p 604). His retreat was as-

tfi u» faroor of Hepbaestos towards Sethos,

'wet la the night, while the Assyrians slept,

bat rf fidd-mice gnawed the bow-strings and

•H-rtnue of the Assyrians, who fled, and many

to vert tliin in their flight by the Aegyptians.

M*a an ia the temple of Hephaestos at Mcm-

k> tnrd of this victory of the Aegyptians, viz.

a» i Mom holding a moose in bis band. The

v wimW; rests on the fact that in the sym-

aa Aerypt the moose implied destruction,

■a HnpoO. Bierogfypk. I SO; Aelian, B. An.

• TWJccoive battle which transferred the throne

II fWaJu to Cambyses, king of the Mcdo-

aaa. vat faogbt near Peiosinm in B. c. 525.

Baa inmnd were strewed with the bones of the

•Bast whn Hero-iotas visited Lower Aegypt;

•» irilbtf the Aegyptians were distinguishable

iBsat «f the Persians by their superior hard-

iBvi coa&Toed by the mommies, nnd which

■bwbb ascribes to the Aegyptians shaving

Bass fnan infancy, and to the Persians cover-

Bas tf with folds of doth or linen. (Herod.

\mr) As Cambyses advanced at once to

pn, Pwaaam probably sorrendered itself inl­

aw; after the battle. (PoIyaCT.Sfrorao.vii.9.)

■ a. c 373. Pnamabazos, satrap of Phry-

H rfcirmea, the commander of the Athenian

t*. appeared before Peiosinm, but retired

»B*Jntg it, Nectaneboa, king of Aegypt,

laaad to its former defences by laying the

■■rag ands under water, and blocking up the

reaasDeis of the Nile by embankments,

•v. 41; Kepos, Ipticr. c 5.)

Nbars was attacked and taken by the Per-

* o Jr)9. The city contained at the time a

■ "T SOU) Greek mercenaries under the com-

Matron. At first, owing to the rashness

tThaatt in the Persian service, the defend-

•t the advantage. But the Aegyptian king

~y venturing on a patched battle,

**r* cut to pieces, and Pelusium sur­  
as Tbeban general Lactates on bonour-

(Diodor. xri. 43.)

B.C 333, Prlosiam opened its pates to

uw Great, who placed a carrison in it

wtaumd at one of those officers entitled

«f the King." (Arrian, Exp. Alrx.

'iinL Own. iv. 33.)

«.c 173, Antiuclius Epiphanes utterly

defeated the troops of Ptolemy Philometor

the walls of Pelusium, which he took and retained

after he had retired from the rest of Aegypt. ( Polyb.

Legal. § 82; Hieronvm. in Daniel xi.) On the fall

of the Syrian kingdom, however, if not earlier,

Pelnsium had been restored to its rightful owners,

since

7. In B. c. 55, it belonged to Aegypt, and Marcus

Antonins, as general of the horse to the Roman pro­

consul Gabinius, defeated the Aegyptian army, and

made himself master of the city. Ptolemy Auletes,

in whose behalf the Romans invaded Aegypt at this

time, wished to put the Pelusians to the sword; but

his intention was thwarted by Antonins. (Plut.

Anion, c- 3; Val. Max. ix. 1.)

8. In B.C. 31, immediately after his victory at

Actium, Augustas appeared before Pelusium, and

was admitted by its governor Scleucus within its

walls.

Of the six military roads formed or adopted by

the Romans in Aegypt, the following arc mentioned

in the Itinerarium of Antoninus as connected with

Pelusium: —

1. From Memphis to Pelusium. This road joined

the great road from Pselcis in Nubia at Babylon,

nearly opposite Memphis, and coincided with it as

far as Scenae Veteranorum. The two roads, vis.

that from Pselcis to Scenae Veteranorum, which

turned off to the east at Hcliopnlis, and that from

Memphis to Pelusium, connected the latter city with

the capital of Lower Aegypt, Trajan's canal, and

Arsinoe, or Suez, on the Sinus Heniopolites.

2. From Acca to Alexandria, ran along the Me­

diterranean sea from Raphia to Pelusium.

Pelnsium suffered greatly from the Persian in­

vasion of Aegypt in a. d. 501 (Eutychii, Amrnl),

but it offered a protracted, though, in the end, an

ineffectual resistance to the arms of Amrou, the son

of Asi, in A. D. 618. As on former occasions, the

surrender of the key of the Delta, was nearly

equivalent to the subjugation of Aegypt itself. The

klialifs, however, neglected the harbours of their

new conquest generally, and from this epoch Pelu­

sium, which had been long on the decline, now

almost disappears from history. Its ruins, which

have no particular interest, are found at Tineh,

near DnmieUa. (Champollion, VEgypte, vol. ii.

p. 82; I)enon, DetcripL de lEyyptc, vol. i. p. 208,

iii. p. 306.) [W. B. D.]

COIN OF I'ELl'SIl'M.

PEMF, (It. Ant. p. 156), probably the fame as

the Penapte (n<V*wrw) of Strphanus B. (t. r.), a

town of Aegypt, in the Heptaiiutuis, 20 miles above

Memphis, on the left bank of the Nile, now called

Bembe. In the old editions of Pliny (v. 29. s. 35)

we find a place called l'emma, belonging to the

Nomads dwelling on the borders of Aegypt and

Aethiopia; but Sillig, instead of "Cysten, Peinmain,

Gadagalen." reads " Cysten. Macadacalen."

PENEITS. 1. the chief river of Th<ssaly.

[TnES.-AI.IA.]

2. The chief river of Elis. [Ems.]

PENESTAE.inThessaly. SeeDict.nfAntiq. $.t.

PENESTAE, a people of lllyricuni, who appear

