48 INDIA. INDIA.

the Erannoboas (IliraHJdvaka) and the Ganges;

with some smaller states, as the Surasenae, and the

towns Mcthora and Clisohra, which were subject to

the Prasii. Southward from l'alibothnt, in the in­

terior of the plain country, dwelt the Cocconagae,

on the banks of the Adamas, the Sab&rae, tlie Sala-

ceni, the Drillophyllitae, the Adeisathri. with their

capital Sagida (probably the present Sohagpur), si­

tuated on the northern spurs of the Ymdhya, at no

great distance from the sources of the Sonus. Be­

tween the Sonus and the Ganges were the Bolin-

gae. In a NW. direction, beyond the Sonus and

the Vindhya, we find a territory called Sandrabatis,

and the Gymnosophistae, who appear to hare oc­

cupied the country now called Sirhind, as fur

as the river Sulkdge, The Caspeiraei (at least in

the time of Ptolemy; see PtoL vii. 1. § 47) seem to

have extended over a considerable breadth of coun­

try, as their sacred town Modara (Mdoouoa r) rw

iw) was situated, apparently, at no great distance

from the Nerbvdda, though its exact position has

not been identified. The difficulty of identification

is much, indeed, increased by the error of reckoning

which prevails throughout Ptolemy, who held that

the coast of India towards the Indian Ocean was in

a straight line E. and W. from Taprobane and the

Indus, thereby placing Nanaguna and the Namadus

in the same parallel of latitude. On the southern

spurs of the Vindhya, between the Namadus and

Nanaguna, on the edge of the Decean, were the

Phyllitae and Gondali; and to the E. of them, be­

tween the BittigoM.and the riverChaberus (Cdreri),

the nomad Sorae (2wpai voud&ti), with a chief town

Sera, at the eastern end of M. Bittigo. To the

southward of these, on the Cbaberus and Solen, were

several smaller tribes, the Brachmani Magi, the Am-

bastae, Bettigi or Bitti, and the Tabaasi.

All the above-mentioned districts and towns of

any importance are more fully described under their

respective names.

The ancients appear to have known but little of

the inlands which are now considered to fonn part

of the East Indies, with the exception of Taprobane

or Cryltm, of which Pliny and Ptolemy have left

some considerable notices. The reason is, that it

was not till a much later period of the world's his­

tory that the Indian Archipelago was fully opened

out by its commercial resources to scientific inquiry.

Besides Ceylon, however, Ptolemy mentions, in its

rieighbourhood, a remarkable cluster of small islands,

doubtless (as we have remarked before) those now

known as the Ijoctadiva and Maldiva; the island

of labadius (Java), below the Chcrsonesus Aurea;

and the Sntyrorum Insulae, on the same parallel

with the S. end of this Chersonesus, which may

perhaps answer to the Anamba or \atuna islands.

Of the government of India, considered as a whole,

comparatively little was known to the Greek writers;

indeed, with the exception of occasional names of

kings, it may be asserted that tbey knew nothing E.

of I'slibollira. Nor is this strange; direct connec­

tion with the interior of the country ceased with the

fall of the Graeco-Bactrian empire; from that period

almost all the information about India which found

its way to the nations of the West was derived

from the merchants and others, who made voy­

ages to the different out-ports of the CMintry. It

may be worth while to state briefly here Borne of

the principal rulers mentioned by the Greek and

Itoman writers; premising that, previous to the ad­

vance of Alexander, history is on these subjects

silent. Previous, indeed, to Alexander, we hare

nothing on which we can rely. There is no evidence

that Darius himself invaded any part of India, though

a portion of the NW. provinces of Bactria may have

paid him tribute, as stated by Herodotus. The ex­

peditions of Dionysus and Hercules, and the wars of

Sesostris and Semiramis in India, can be considered

as nothing more than fables too credulously recorded

by Ctesias. At the time of the invasion of Alex­

ander the Great, there can be no doubt that then

was a settled monarchy in the western part of India,

and his dealings with it are very clearly to be made

out In the north of the Panjdb was the town or

district Taxila (probably ifamiydla, or very near

it), which was ruled by a king named Taxiles; it

being a frequent Indian custom to name the king

from the place he ruled over. His name in I)i<>

dorus is Mophis (xvii. 86), and in Curtius, Omphis

(viii. 12), which was probably the real one, and is

itself of Indian origin. It appears that Alexander

left his country as he found it. (Strah. xv. pp. 698,

699, 716.) The name of Taxiles is not mentioned

in any Indian author. The next ruler Alexander

met with was Porus (probably Paurara Sanscr, •

change which Strabo indicates in that of Aapiauiir

into Aaoftor), with whom Taxiles had been at war.

(Arrian, v. 21.) Alexander appears to have suc­

ceeded in reconciling them, and to have increased

the empire of Porus, so as to make his rule compre­

hend the whole country between the Hydaspes and

Acesines. (Arrian, v. 20, 21, 29.) His country is

not named in any Indian writer. Shortly afterwards,

Alexander received an embassy and presents from

Abisaris (no doubt A bhisdra), whose territory, as has

been shown by Prof. Wilson from the Anmati of

Caihmir, must have been in the mountains in the

southern part of that province. {Aiiat. Ret. vol.

xv. p. 116.) There had been previously a war be­

tween this ruler and the Malli, Oxydracae, and the

people of the Lower Panjdb, which had ended in

nothing. Alexander confirmed Abisaris in the pos­

session of his own territory, made Philip satrap of

the Malli and Oxydracae, and I'ytho of the land be­

tween the confluence of the Indus and Acesines and

the sea (Arrian, vi. 15); placing, at the same time,

Oxyarces over the I'aropamisadae. (Arr. vi. IS.) It

may be observed that, in the time of Ptoleiny, the

Caidimirians appear to have held the whole of the

Panjdb, so far as the Vindhya mountains, a portion

of the southern country being, however, in the hands

of the Malli and Cathaei.

The same state of things prevailed for some

time after the death of Alexander, as appears by

a decree of Perdiccas, mentioned in Diudorus (xviii.

3), and with little material change under Anti-

pater. (Diod. xviii. 39.) Indeed, the provinces

remained true to the Macedonians till the com­

mencement of the rule of the Prasii. when San-

drocottus took up arms against the Macedonian

governors. (Justin, xv. 4.) The origin of this re­

bellion is clearly traceable. Porus was slain by Ea-

daratu about B.C. 317 (Diod. xix. 14); hence 8am-

drocottus must hsrc been on the throne about the

time that Seleucus took Babylon, H.C. 312. The

attempt of the Indians to recover their freedom was

probably aided by the fact that Porus had been slain

by a'Greek. Sandrocottus, as king of the Praaii

(Sansc IVachya) and of the nations on the Ganges,

made war with Seleucus Nicator, who penetrated far

into India. Plutarch says he ruled over all India,

but this is nut likely. (Plut. Ala. 62.) It appear.

