G46 PO POLYMEMUM.

"Tennisqus censu civitas Polygium est,

Turn Mansa vicua oppidumque Naustalo."'

There is nothing to say a!>out a place for whose bite

there is no sufficient evidence. Menard supposed

it to be Bouriffuo* on the Ettsng de Tan. The

name seems to be Greek, and 'he place may be one

of the Massaliot settlements 01 this coast. [Nal-

8TALO]. [G.L.]

POLYME'DIUM (IIoXv^Smv, Strab. xiii. pp.

606,616; Polymedia, Plin. v. 30. s. 32), a small

place in Mysia, between the promuntory Lectura and

Asslis, and at the distance of 40 stadia from the

former.

POLYRRHE'NIA(noAv#ijWa, Ptol.iii.l7.§ 10;

T\«Kvfyy\v, WoKvpt}v, Steph. IS. 8. v., corrected by

Meineke into TloXvfifavia; IloAAiytyjji'a, Seylax, p.

18, corrected by Gail; V\o\vfyi\viov% Zenob. Prop.

v. 50; Polyrrhenium, Plin. iv. 12. s. 20: Eth.

tloKvpfrfmos, Polyb. iv. 53, 55; Strab. x. p. 479),

a town in the NW. of Crete, whose territory occupied

the whole western extremity of the island, extending

from N\ to S. (Seylax, p. 18.) Strabo describes it

as lying W. of Cydonia, at the distance of 30 stadia

from the sea, and 6D from Phalasarna, and as con­

taining a temple of Dictynna. He adds that tlie

Polyrrhenians formerly dwelt in villages, and that

they were collected into one plat e by the Achaeani

and Lacedaemonians, who built a strung city looking

towards the south. (Strab. x. p. 479.) In the

civil wars in Crete in the time of the Achaean League,

it. e. 219, the Polyrrhenians, who had been subject

allies of Cnossna, deserted the latter, and assisted

the Lyctians against that city. Tht*y also sent aux­

iliary troops to the assistance of the Aehaeans, be­

cause the Gnossians had supported the Aetolians.

(Polyb. iv. 53, 55.) The ruins of Polyrrhenia,

called Palaeokattro, near KUamo-KatUU^ exhibit

the remains of the ancient walls, from 10 to 18 feet

high. (Pashley, Crete, vol. ii. p. 46, seq.)

POLYTIME'TUS. [Uxia Palls.]

POME'TIA. [Suf.ssa Pometia.]

POMPETI (no^n-Tjta, Strab.; Tlo^ir^ioi, Dion

Cass,: Kth.Wo^wr\tavos, Pompeianus: Pompeii), an

indent city of Campania, situated on the coast of

the beautiful gulf called the Crater or Bay of Xapks,

at the mouth of the river Sarnus (Sojuo), and im­

mediately at the foot of Mount Vesuvius. It was

intermediate between Herculaneum and Stabiae.

(Strab. v. p. 247; Pliny, iii. 5. s. 9; Mela, ii. 4. § 9.)

All accounts agree in representing it as a very ancient

city: a tradition recorded by Solinus (2. § 5) ascribed

its foundation to Hercules; but DionysiUS, who ex­

pressly notices him as the founder of Herculaneum,

says nothing of Pompeii(Dionys. i. 44). Strabo says

it was first occupied by the Oscans, subsequently by

the Tyrrhenians (Etruscans) and Pelasgians, and

afterwards by the Samnites (Strab. I.e.). It con­

tinued in the hands of these hist, that is, of the

branch of the nation who had assumed the name of

Campanians [CampaHIa], til] it passed under the

government of Home. It is probable that it became

from an early period a flourishing town, owing to its

advantageous situation at the mouth of the Sarnus,

which rendered it the port of Nola, Nuceria, and all

the rich plain watered by that river. (Strab. L c.)

Hut we meet with no mention of its name in history

previous to the Roman conquest of Campania. In

n. c. 310 it is mentioned for the fir^t time, when a

Roman tleet under P. Cornelius touched there, and

the troops on board proceeded tVom thence to ravage

the territory of Nuceria. (Liv. ix. 38.) No sub-

sequent notice of it oc

Social War (b.c. 91),

taken a prominent par

turned by Appian apart

in enumerating the nati

rectiou. (Appian. B. t

of the war (h. c. 89) P

of the insurgents, and i

engagements that L. Su

nite forces underL.CIu<

refuge within the walls

siege of Pompeii. (Ap(

Pat.ii. 16.) The result

It is certain that the t

hands of Sulla . but wl

tion we are not informs

most probable, as it esc

its inhabitants were adn

though they lost a pari

a military colony was

under the guidance ai

P. Sulla. (Oie. pro Su

254,468.) Before the (

became, in common w

towns of Campania, a f;

tinl.les, many of whom

neighbourhood. Amonj

there, which he freijuen

of "Pompeiannm," and

a considerable establish]

residences. (Cic. Acad.

vii. 3, xii. 20.) Under t

resorted to for the sam

the pleasantness of its

from him and Tacitus

flourishing town (" ceU

22; Seu-iVbt vi. l

wliich it received (as air

and which is alluded to

Veneria Conielia" (Mot

it seems to have reeei

period, probably under .

termed a colony by Plin

several inscriptions (Mo

In the reign of Xer

place in the amphitheat

a dispute between the c

colonists of Nuceria, *

which many persons wei

Pompeians were punish

pruhibition of all gladia

tions for ten years. (Ta

years after, the city sufl

quake, which to<»k pla<

a. i>. 63. The expressi

tus would lead us to s

part utterly destroyed; a

dencfl that the damage c

great, the public buildm

most severely. (Sen. .N

22.) The city had ha;

lamity, when it met v

totally overwlielmed by

suvius in a. r>. 79, whie

Herculaneum, under a di

The lass of life in the

because the inhabitants v

at the time when the ca

Cass. lxvi. 23.) The you

letters describing the er

nut even uotice the deal

