VESUVIUS MONS.

VETILOXIA. 1265

bably the one alluded to by Galen (de Meth. v. 12),

md it seems certain from the description given by

Dion Caasius of the state of the mountain when be

wrote (under Alexander Severus) that it was then

in a state of occasional, but irregular, activity, much

resembling that which exists at the present day.

(Dion Caaa. lxvi. 21.) The only other eruption

that we find mentioned under the Roman Empire oc­

curred in a. d. 472 under the reign of Anthemius.

(Marcellin. Chron. ad ann.) A fourth, which

look place in the reign of Theodoric king of the

Guths (a. n. 512), is noticed by both Cassiodorus

and 1'rocopius, who describe in considerable detail

the f henoniena of the mountain. It appears certain

that these later eruptions were accompanied by the

discharge of streams of lava, which caused great mis­

chief to the surrounding country. (Cassiod. Ep.

ir. SO; Procop. B. O. ii. 4, iv. 35.)

It would be foreign to our subject to trace thehistory

of the mountain through the middle ages, but it may

be mentioned that its eruptions seem to hare been far

more rare and separated by longer intervals than

they have been for more than two centuries past;

and in some instances at least these intervals were

periods of perfect quiescence, during which the moun­

tain wis rapidly losing its peculiar aspect Even us

late as 1611, after an interval of little more than a

century, the sides of the mountain were covered with

forests, and the crater itself was overgrown with

fhruba and rich herbage. (Daubeny on Volcanoes,

p. 235.)

At the present day Vesuvius consists of two dis-

tinct portions: the central cone, which is now the

most elevated part of the mountain; and a ridge

w hich encircles this on three sides at some distance,

and is separated from it by a level valley or hollow

t railed the A trio del Carallo. This outer ridge, of

wliirfi the highest point, nearits X. extremity, iscalled

Jfonie Somma, was probably at one time continuous

i»n all aides of the circle, but is now broken down on

tl»e S. and W. face*: hence the appearance of Vcsu-

v i us as viewed from Naples or from the W. is that of

a mountain having two peaks separated by a deep

depression. This character is wholly at variance with

Lite description given by Strabo, who tells us that

}it» summit was nearly level, but with clefts and

i~^xirc9 in it, from which fire appeared to have for-

nerly issued (v. p. 247). Hence it is probable that

::€- mountain was then a single truncated cone, and

bsmAt the vast crater-like hollow of which the Atrio

>/ Carallo forms part, was first created by the

teat eruption of A. B. 79, which blew into the air

t,^ -whole mass of the then existing summit of the

fountain, leaving the present ridge of Monte Somma

^ruling, enclosing a vast crater, within which the

recent cone has gradually formed. (Daubeny on

',^/oanoes. p. 215; Lyell's Principles of Geology,

365, 8th edit) It has indeed been frequently

.unnel from the accounts of the operations of Spar-

^ cx» already mentioned (Elor. iii. 20; l'lut. Crow. 9)

iat t he mountain had even then a crater, within

l„cb that leader and his band were enclosed by the

.jsxxat general; but it is very doubtful whether the

l^ssfs+jZ'a in question bear out thisinterpretation, which

rfl15 at variance with the account given by Strabo,

mr- description has every appearance of being de-

,<r<j from personal observation.

/^Tooceniing the history of the different eruptions

-y^^xxvius see Delia Torre, Storia ilel I'esurto, 4to.,  
noli- '"55; and the geological work of Dr. Dan-

fyZch- xii-) [E. H. BO

VETERA [Castra Vktera.]

VETTONA (F.th. Vettonensis: Bettona), a mu­

nicipal town of Unibria, situated about 5 miles K.

of the Tiber, between Perusia and Mevania. It is

mentioned by Pliny among the municipalities of

Umbria, and its name is found also in an inscription

among the "XV Populi Umbriae;" while another

mentions it in connection with Perusia, from which

it was only about 10 miles distant, as measured on

the map, though the Tabula calls it 14 miles from

that city and 20 from Tuder. (Plin. iii. 14. s. 19;

Orel), /riser. 95, 98: Tab. Peat.) Vettona con­

tinued in the middle ages to be a city of con­

siderable importance, but it was destroyed by the

Perugians in 1352> The ancient site is, however,

still marked by the village of Bettona, about a

mile from the left bank of the Tinia. [E. II. B.j

VETTONES (Oifi-wcs, Strab. iii. p. 152;

Ov*ttov*s, Ptol. ii. 5. § 9), one of the principal

peoples of Lusitania. (Caes. B. C. i. 38; Plin. iv.

21. s. 38 ; Grut Inter, p. 383. 7.) Strabo alone

(L c.) assigns them to Hither Iberia, or the Provincia

Tarraconensis. We find their country called Vet-

tonia by Prudentius (Hymn, in Eulal. v. 186) and

in an inscription. (Oielli, no. 3664.) It was

watered by the Tagus, anil separated by the Durius

from Asturia on the hi. Ou the W., where their

boundary corresponded very nearly with that of

modern Portugal, they adjoined the proper Lusi-

tani. On the E. they neighboured on the Carpetani

in Hispania Tarraconensis, and their boundary would

be described by a line drawn from the modern

Sinancas in a SW. direction over Puente del A rto-

bispo to Truxillo. On the S. they were bounded

by the province of Baetica, so that their country

comprehended a part of Estrt-madura and Leon.

Their principal towns were Salmantica {Salamanca),

Cecilionicum (Banost), Capara (fas Yentas de Ca-

para), Senticc (in the neighbourhood of Lot Santos),

Cottaeohriga (Almeida), Augustobriga (Viudad

Kodrigot), &C. In their country grew the herba

Vettouica (Plin. xxv. 7. a. 46), still known under

the name of betony; an account of which is given in

the treatise De Utrba Bcttmica, ascribed to Antonius

Musa. [T. H. D.]

VETULO'MA or VETULCNIUM (OverevAje-

viov, Ptol. iii 1. § 49: ElK. Vetulonienses), one of

the twelve principal cities of the Etruscan confedera­

tion (Dionya. iii. 51; Plin. iii. 5. a. 8). Yet we

hear nothing of its political history; and all we

know respecting it is, that it was reputed to be the

town iu which the Etruscan insignia of magistracy,

afterwards adopted by the Romans, such as tbe

lictors, fasces, sella enrulis, toga praetexta, &c,

as well as tbe trumpet, were first used. (SiL It. viii.

483, sqq.; cf. Dionys. iii. 61; Strab. v. p. 220;

Macr.S. i. 6; Flor. i. 5; Ac)

The destruction of Velulonia, and the silence of

history respecting it, have caused even its site to be

a matter of doubt- Thus it has been sought at or

near Yiterbo (Annio, Antiqq. Var. Yolum.\ at

Massa Marittima, the ancient Massa Velernensis

(Amm. Mare. xiv. 11. § 25), or in a dense wood 5

miles to the W. of that town (Ximenes, ap. Inghirami,

Rictrchedi Yetulouia, p. 62; cf. Targioni-Tozxelti,

1 'inggi in Totcama, iv. p. 116); on the site of

Yuki (Luc. Buonaparte, Ann. Itut. 1829, p. 188,

sqq.; and Valeriani, Slut. Chios, i. p. 68); on the hill

of Castiglione Beruardi, near Monte HoUmdu (Ing-

hirami, tiiotrcht di YetiUonia, Ambroscb), and at

Orbctello (Ennolao Barbaro, ap. Dtmptttr, Etrar.

4 N 3

