LOCRAS. LOCRI. 199

modern Lohr. (Ptol. ii. 11. §29.) Its name seems

to be of Celtic origin. (Comp. Steiner, Das Main-

gebiet, p. 125.) [L. S ]

LOCRAS. [Corsica, p. 691, a.]

LOCRI EPICNEMl'OII, OPU'NTII. [Lc-CRis.]

LOCRI fyZOLAE. [Locris.]

LOCRI (AoKpoi), sometimes called, for distinc-

ti.mss«ke, LOCKI EPIZEPHY'RH (SoKpol 'Ew.fc-

<x>;>.o.,Thuc.vii. 1; Pind.0i.xi.15; Strab.; Steph.B.:

Etk. Aojrpar, Locrensis: Ruins near Gerace), a city

&n tije SE. coast of the Bruttian peninsula, not tar

from its southern extremity, and one of the most

celebrated of the Greek colonies in this part of Italy.

It was a colony, as its name obviously implies, of the

Locrians in Greece, but there is much discrepancy

as to the tribe of that nation from which it derived

its origin. Strata affirms that it was founded by

the Locri Ozolae, under a leader named Euanthes,

and censures Ephorus for ascribing it to the Locri

Opontii; but this last opinion seems to have been the

on* generally prevalent. Scymnus Chius mentions

b>th opinion*, but seems to incline to the latter; and

it is adopted without question by Pausanias, as well

as by the poet* and later Latin authors, whence we

may probably infer that it was the tradition adopted

by the Locrians themselves. (Strab. vi. p. 259;

Symn. Ch. 313—317; Paus. iii. 19. § 12; Virg.

Aen. iii. 399.) Unfortunately Polybins, who had in­

formed himself particularly as to the history and in­

stitutions of the Locrians, does not give any state­

ment upon this point. Bat we learn from him that

the origin of the colony was ascribed by the tra-

dition current among the Locrians themselves, and

sanctioned by the authority of Aristotle, to a body of

fnritive slaves, who had carried off their mistresses,

witli whom they had previously carried on an il­

licit intercourse. (Pol. xii. 5, 6, 10—12.) The

Mme story is alluded to by Diunysius Periegetes

(365—367). Pausanias would i-cem to refer to a

wh'iily different tale where he says that the Laee-

dwtnoniara sent a colony to the Epizephvrian Locri,

st the same time with one to Crotonu. (Paus. iii. 3.

§ 1.) These were, however, in both cases, probably

only additional bands of colonists, as Lncedaemon

wa* never regarded as the founder of cither city.

The date of the foundation of Locri is equally un-

nfliio. Strabo (t c.) places it a little after that of

Crotona and Syracuse, which he regarded as nearly

orattmporary, but he is probably mistaken in this

bw opinion. [Crotoxa.] Eusebius, on the con­

trary, brings it down to so late a date as B. c. 673

(or.according to Hieronymus, 683); but there seems

iral reason to beliove that this is much too late, and

«e may venture to adopt Strabo's statement that it

v»» founded soon after Crotona, if the latter be

P«*ed about 710 B.C. (Euseb. Ann. p. 105;

Clinton F. U. vol. i. p. 186. vol. ii. p. 410.) The

traditions adopted by Aristotle and Polybius repre-

wtri the first settlers as gaining possession of the

sral from the native Oenotrians (whom they called

Stuli), by a fraud not unlike those related in many

•nriilar legends. (Pol. iii. 6.) The fact stated by

-*rabo that they fiist established themselves on Cat*  
frvhyriuin (C*po di Brtuzano), and subsequently

•tawed froln thence to the site which they ulli-

"nateir occupied, about 15 miles further N., is sup-

P*-*- by the evidence • f their distinctive appella-

•*«. and may be depended on as accurate. (Strab.

it)

M in the case of most of the other Greek colonies

» Italy, we have very scanty and imperfect in-

formation concerning the early history of Locri. The

first event in its annals that has been transmitted to

us, and one of those to which it owes its chief cele­

brity, is the legislation of Zaleucus. This was said

to be the most ancient written code of laws that had

been given to any Greek state; and though the his­

tory of Zaleucus himself was involved in great ob­

scurity, and mixed up with much of fable [Zaleu­

cus, Biogr. Dict.~\, there is certainly no doubt that

the Locrians possessed a written code, which passed

nnder his name, and which continued down to a late

period to be in force in their city. Even in the days

of Pindar and of Demosthenes, Locri was regarded

as a model of good government and order; and its

inhabitants were distinguished for their adherence

to established laws and their aversion to all inno­

vation. (Pind. 01. x. 17: Schol. ad foe.; Strab. vi.

p. 260; Demosth. adv. Timocrat. p. 743; Diod. xii.

20,21.)

The period of the legislation of Zaleucus cannot

be determined with certainty: but the date given by

Eusebius of 01. 30, or b. c. 660, may be received

as approximately correct. (Euseb. Arm. p. 105;

Clinton, vol i. p. 193.) Of its principles we know but

little; and the quotations from his laws, even if we

could depend upon their authenticity, have no refer*

ence to the political institutions of the state. It

appears, however, that the government of Locri was

an aristocracy, in which certain select families,

called the Hundred Houses, enjoyed superior privi­

leges: these were considered to be derived from the

original settlers, and in accordance with the legend

concerning their origin, were regarded as deriving

their nobility from the female side. (Pol. xii. 5.)

The next event in the history of Locri, of which

we have any account, is the memorable battle of the

Sagras, in which it was said that a force of 10,000

Locrians, with a small body of auxiliaries from

Ithegiuin, totally defeated an army of 130,000 Cro-

toniats. with vast slaughter. (Strab. vi. p. 261;

Cie.de N.I), ii. 2; Justin, xx. 2, 3.) The extra­

ordinary character of thiB victory, and the exag­

gerated and fabulous accounts of it which appear to

have been circulated, rendered it proverbial among

the Greeks (dAnfle'trreoa tuiv M Zdypa. Suid. s. v.)

Vet wo have no means of assigning its correct place

in history, its date being extremely uncertain, some

accounts placing it after the fall of Sybaris (it. c.

510), while others would carry it back nearly 50

years earlier. [Crotona.]

The small number of troops which the Lticrians

are represented as bringing into the field upon this

occasion, as compared with those of Crotona, would

seem to prove that the city was not at this time a

very powerful one; at least it is clear that it was not

to compare with the great republics of Sybaris and

Crotona. But it seems to have been in a flourishing

condition; and it must in all probability be to this

period that we must refer the establishment of its

colonies of Hipponium and Medma, on the opposite

side of the Bruttian peninsula. (Scymn. Ch.. 3l)8;

Strab. vi. p. 256.) Locri is mentioned by Herodotus

in B. c. 493, when the Samian colonists, who were

on their way to Sicily, touched there (Herod, vi. 23);

and it appears to have been in a state of great pro­

sperity when its praises were sung by Pindar, in

B. c. 484. (Pind. 01. x., xi.) The Locrians, from

their position, were naturally led to maintain a close

connection with the Greek cities of Sicily, especially

with Syracuse, their friendship with which would

seem to have dated, according to some accounts,

O 4

