POMPEIL 047 POMPEII.

oimm: but his attention is directed principally

'»lit circumstances of bis uncle's death and the

iQasaau which he had himself witnessed,

fan this time the name of Pompeii disappears

■'■ n history. It is not noticed by Ptolemy; and it

i ma that the city was never rebuilt But the

ee a spin fouiid in the Tabula; and it thus ap­

ian that i small place must hare again arisen on

is ate, or. more probably, in the neighbourhood, of

■« bind city. Bat all trace of Pompeii was sub-

ewntly kit; and in the middle ages its very site

•a ourery forgotten, so that even the learned and

iitji Cloreriua was unable to fix it with certainty,

■ na led to place it at Scn/ati on the Santo, about

I sales L of its true position. This difficulty arose,

■ pat measure, from the great physical changes

»iictd by the catastrophe of A. D. 79, which

inW the course of the Santo, so that it now

■» c soma distance from Pompeii,—and at the

a* time poshed forward the line of the coast, so

hat the esty ia now above a mile distant from the

at viict o ancient times undoubtedly bathed its

Tbm ■ no reason to suppose that Pompeii in

*wtf times ever rose above the rank of a second-  
aVfawraaaal town; but the re-discovery of it* buried

■aas in the last century has given a celebrity to

I sane exceeding that of the greatest cities. The

of its destruction were peculiarly

to the preservation of its remains. It

» act overthrown by a torrent of lava, but simply

Bas by a vast accumulation of volcanic sand, ashes,

i enters (called by the Italians lapilli), which

a» a mass of a very light, dry, and porous

**■'-■ At the same time, it is almost certain

* the present accumulation of this volcanic de­  
ll ('tuch is in most places 15 feet in depth) did

place at once, but was formed by successive

pans; and there ia little doubt that the ruins

• •arched and the moat valuable objects removed |

soon after the catastrophe took place. This seems

to be proved by the small number of objects of in­

trinsic value (such as gold and silver plate) that

have been discovered, as well as by the fact that

comparatively few skeletons have been found, though

it appears certain, from the expressions of Dion

Cassius, that great numbers of the inhabitants

perished; nor have any of these been found in the

theatre, where it is probable that the greatest loss of

life occurred.

It was not till 1748 that an accidental discovery

drew attention to the remains of Pompeii; and in 1755

regular excavations on the site were first commenced

by the Neapolitan government, which have been

carried on ever since, though with frequent intervals

and interruptions. It is impossible for us here even

to attempt to give any account of the results of these

excavations and the endless variety of interesting

remains that have been brought to light. We shall

confine ourselves to those points which bear more

immediately on the topography and character of the

town of Pompeii, rather than on the general habits,

life, and manners of ancient times. More detailed

accounts of the remains, and the numerous objects

which have been discovered in the course of the ex­

cavations, especially the works of art, will be found

in the great work of Mazois (Let Ruines de Pompeii,

continued by Gau, 4 vols. fbL, Paris, 1812—1838),

and in the two works of Sir W. Gell (Pompeiana,

1 st series, 2 vols. 8vo. Lond. 1824; 2nd series, 2 vols.

8vo. 1830); also in the little work published by

the Society of Useful Knowledge (Pompeii, 2 vols.

12mo. 1831). A recent French publication by Breton

(Pompeia, 8vo. Paris, 1855), also gives a good ac­

count of the wholo progress and results of the dis­

coveries (including the most recent excavations) in

a moderate compass and inexpensive form. The

still more recent work of Overbeck (8vo. Lcipzic,

1856), of which the first part only has yet appeared,

contains an excellent compendium of the whole sub-

OKSKKAL PLAJS OF l'UMFiai.

1 i 4le of Herculane ,m.

1 <M4t a/ Vesuvius.

"I'xtr of < 11 '11

t <d Sol-.

a i.acotibc SavBtia.

( Gueofaiauue.

7. Gate of the Theatres.

8. Modern eulrance to the citj.

9. Forum.

10. Theatres.

11. AmpUillieatrr.

IS. Stieet o{ tuo Tombs.

T T 4

