POMPTINAE PALUDES. 655 POMPTINAE PALUDES.

■ of tint writer; though Theophrastua himself

i u distinctly that the itland was in bis days

as1 to the m»inl.nii bj the accumulated deposits

aBsia rivers. (Theophr. //. P. v. 8. § 3; 1'lin.

i. a 9.) Another tradition, preserved to us

• ;j i'tiny (L c). but wholly at variance with

i Ijut, asserted that the tract then covered by

iimJ rendered uninhabitable by them, had

■riy keen occupied by no less than 24 (or, ac­

ta; to some MSS., 33) cities. But no trace of

i Let. which he cites from Mucianus, an author

Deapunry with himself, is to he found in any

m writr; and not even the name of one of these

paed cities has been preserved; there can

• •> be little doubt that the whole story has

k fr»*n atime misconception.

1' »uptioe Marshes are generally represented

snT.ag their name from the city of Suessa I'o-

a, ahkh appears to have been situated some-

m «e their borders, though we have no clue to

■viae position. [Sl'ES&a Pomktla]. The

1*i«bm agtr." which is repeatedly mentioned

jn. and which was cultivated with corn, and

« it portioned out in lots to Roman colonists

l u. 34. iv. 25, vi. 5, 21) was probably rather

sWiiii bordering on the marshes than the

a raampy tract, which does not appear to have

ever effectually reclaimed; though a very

amount of industry must at any time have

mi to bring into cultivation considerable por-

«f Use adjoining plain. As early, however, as

Mr 312 a. c the Appian Way appears to have

earned through the midst of the marshes (Liv.

'• I>««J. xx. 36X and a canal conducted along

a bum Forum Appii to Tarracina, which

Si also much resorted to as a mode of traffic

i Ann. 1 The institution of the Pumptine

» a. c 358, and of the Ufentine tribe in

its (Liv. vii. 15, ix. 20), would seem also to

: la the existence of a considerable population

is saufchiiiii hnrrl at least of the l'omptine

sb . bat still we have unequivocal testimony of

SKL-.jsd existence of the marshes themselves

Iftriais of antiquity. (Sil. Ital viii. 380;

li p. 233.&C.)

• aery circumstance that the plain is bordered

sjp.ni by a chain of considerable and populous

i LX^stad on the mountain front, while not one

Bread a* existing in the plain itself, is a suffi-

- f that the latter was in great part unin-

marshes are formed principally by the

uf the waters of two streams, the

and the Urmia, both rising in the

ootaina. (Strab. v. p. 233.) Of these

ma the most considerable, and appears

* bern regarded as the principal stream, of  
Amaacnus was only a tributary. The

scribed aa a slow and sluggish stream;

Italics*, amplifying the hints of Virgil,

picture of its waters, black with

they alow way through the pestiferous

(Virg. Aen. Tii. 801; Sil. Ital.

: Chaodian. Prob. tt OL Com. 257.)

rreral minor streams either flow

the Velacaan mountains, or rise imnic-

f at ties- foot in copious springs of clear water,

amcaaedy the case with all limestone moun-

Tbe S ntrsuEca, which rises at the foot of

I at Xartst, is the most remarkable instance

Thxa the whole mass of waters, the stag­

nation of which gives rise to these marshes, is very

considerable; and it is only by carrying these off in

artificial channels to the sea that any real progress

can be made in the drainage of the district.

Various attempts were made in ancient times to

drain the Pontine Marshes. The first of these was

in B. c. 160, by the consul Cornelius Cethegus,

which, according to the brief notice transmitted to

us, would seem to have been for a time successful

(Liv. Epit. xlvi.); but it is probable that the result

attained was in reality hut a partial one; and we

find them relapsing into their former state before the

close of the Republic, so that the drainage of the

Pontine Marshes is noticed among the great public

workH projected by the dictator Caesar, which he

did not live to execute. (Suet. Can. 44; Plut.

Cats. 58; Dion Cass. xliv. 5.) It would appear

that on this occasion also some progress was made

with the works, so that a considerable extent of land

was reclaimed for cultivation, which M. Antonius

proposed to divide among the poorer Roman citizens.

(Dion Cass. xlv. 9.) Horace alludes to a similar

work as having been accomplished by Augustus

(Hor. Art. Poet. 65; Schol.Crug. ad foe.); but we

find no mention of this elsewhere, and may there­

fore probably conclude that no great success attended

his efforts. Juvenal alludes to the Pontine Marshes

as in his time a favourite resort of robbers and

highwaymen (Juv. iii. 307); a sufficient proof that

the district was one thinly inhabited. The enter­

prise seems to have been resumed by Trajan in

connection with his restoration of the Appian Way

through the same district (Dion Cass. lxviiL 15);

but we have no particular account of his works,

though inscriptions confirm the account given by

Dion Cassius of his renovation of the highroad.

The next serious attempt we hear of to drain this

marshy tract was that under Theodoric, which is

recorded both by Cassiodorus and by an inscription

still extant at Terracma. (Cassiodor. 1'ar. ii. 32,

33; Gruter, Inter, p. 152. 8.) But in the period

thai followed the works naturally fell into decay,

and the whole tract relajeed into an uninhabitable

state, which continued till the close of the middle

ages. Nor was it till quite modern times that any

important works were undertaken with a view to

reclaim it. Pope Pius VI. was the first to reopen

the line of the Appian Way, which had been aban­

doned for centuries, and restore at the same time the

canal by its side, extending from Treponti to Ter-

racina. This canal takes the place of that w hich

existed in the time of Horace and Strabo, and

formed the customary mode of transit for travellers

proceeding from Forum Appii to Tarracina. (Hor.

Sat. i. 5. 10 — 24; Strab. v. p. 233; Lncan, iii.

85.) It is evidently the same which is called by Pro-

copius (/»'. G. i.l 1) the Decennovium, a name which

could only be applied to an artificial cut or canal,

though that author terms it a river. The •• nineteen

miles" indicated by the name commenced from

Tripontium {Treponti), from whence the canal was

carried in a straight line to within 3 miles of Tar­

racina. It was this portion of the road which, as

we learn from an inscription, was restored by Tra­

jan; and the canal was doubtless constructed or

restored at the same time. Hence Cassiodorus

applies the name of " Decennovii paludes" to the

whole tract of the Pontine Marshes. (Cassiod. 1'or.

ii. 32, 33.)

The Saturab Palus, mentioned both by Virgil

and Silius Italicus in connection with the river

