SICILIA. SICILIA. 987

(K. of F.nna, bat W. of the valley of the Symne-

tnn; Cestubjpa (Centorbi), nearly dae E. of

Eau; Adranum {Aderno), on the E. bank of the

.»i lethoa, at the foot of Mount Aetna; Hybla

Look (which must not be confounded with the

ttj of the same name near Syracuse), and Aetna,

r.>nu«ly called Lnessa, both situated on the

Tjtbem slope of the same mountain. N. of Agy-

oa the southern slopes of the Mons Nebrodes

trr situated Herbita, Capitium, and probably

bo Galaiua: while on the northern declivities of

It same mountains, fronting the sea, but at some

stance inland, were placed Apoi.lonia (probably

-V.-i.»). Amestbatitb (Mistretta), Abacaenum,

fc-w miles inlarul from Tyndaris, and Noae, pro-

itly Soara. Three other towns, Imachara,

TIA3TA, and Tissa, may probably be assigned to

ia lam* region of Sicily, though their exact posi­

ts cannot be determined. 3. In the SE. portion

'vi:», S. of the Symaethns and its tributary

* Chrysas or Dittaino, were situated Eroetium,  
nlx.iXTlA, LaoaTtlll, and Hybla: as well as

X3AKXUM and Hekbkssus: but of all these

ixrs Leontini (/.en/mi) and Menaenum (J/ineo)

t the only ones that can be identified with any-

like certainty. In the hilts W. of Syracuse

n» Acbae (Paiasofo), Bints (S. Gio. di Bidino),

*i ■ i :.: m (Caaioro); and YV. of these again, in  
e direction towards tie!a, must be placed the He­

al Htbca, as well as Echetla, in the neigh-

arbood of Crm Michek. SW. of Syracuse, in the

terior, were Neti'M or Neetum (Aro(o Veechio),

•4 Mottca (Modica), both of which are well

*»n. The Syracusan colony of Casmenak must  
stably have been situated in the same district

t its site has never been identified.

After going through this long list of Sicilian

ras, there remain the following, noticed either by

.-rro or Pliny, as municipal towns, to the position

which we have no means of even approximating.

t» Achkrixi (Cic.),TvRAClNl(Cic; Tyracicnses,

la), Areataei (I'lin.), Etini (Id.), Uerbulenses

<•-), Senwllitani (Id.), Tahirenscs (Id.), Many of

> above oaines are probably corrupt and merely

readings, but we are at a loss what to sub-

cite. On the other hand, the existence of a town

1*1 McnsTKATtiM or Mytistratum is attested by

th Cicero and Pliny, and there seems no sufficient

tun for rejecting it as identical with Amestratus,

tis been done by many modern geographers,

earn its aite is wholly uncertain. Equally un-

• i are the following names given by Ptolemy

r«S the inland towns of the island: Aleta

Uvra), Hydra or Lydia (*T8jx» or Avoid), Paty-

y »< •. Coturga or Cortuga (KoVvpya or

Legum or Letum (AiryoK or A^tok),

ifrina (*A7*"pi*w), Ina or Ena ("lyaor'Hi'a), and

■»:!.:tim ('EAic«Sio»'). It would be a waste of time

Oacosa tbeae names, most of which are probably

their present form corrupt, and are all of them

terwiae wholly unknown. On the other hand the

Litxnee af Xaoox a, mentioned by Stephanus of

uatiam, bat not noticed by any other writer, is

".1 Tried by coins.

Tie topography of Sicily is still very imperfectly

m. The ruins of its more celebrated cities are

we'll known and have been often described;

pvutly in the valuable work of the Duke of

rra di Faleo (Antiehita delta Sicilia, 5 vols. fol.

mtho, 1834—1839), as well as in the well-known

ink lit Swiubuxue, Sir K Hoare, &c. (Swiuburue's

Travels in the Tvso Sicilies. 2 v.ds. 4to. Lond. 1783;

Sir R. Hoarc's Classical Tour through Italy anil

Sicily, 2 vols. 8vo. Lond. 1819; St. Non, Voyage

Pittoresque de Naples et de la Sidle, 5 vols. fol.

Paris, 1781; Biscari, Principe di, Viaggio per le

Antichita delta Sicilia, 8vo. Palermo, 1817, &c):

but the island has never been thoroughly explored

by an antiquarian traveller, like those to whom we

are indebted for our knowledge of Greece and Asia

Minor. The valuable work of Cluveriua (Siciiia

Antiqua, fol. Lugd. Bat. 16111) must here, as well

as for Italy, be made the foundation of all subsequent

researches. But much valuable information is found

in the more ancient work of Fazello, a Sicilian monk

of the sixteenth century, as well as of his commen­

tator Amico, and in the Topographical Dictionary of

the latter author. (Thomae Fuzelti de Rebus Siculut

Decades Duo, first edit, in fol. Panormi, 1558,

republished with copious notes by Amico, 3 vols. fol.

Catanae, 1749—1753 ; Amico, Lexicon Topogra-

phicum Sicuium, 3 vols. 4to. Catanae, 1759). Much,

however, still remains to be done. Many localities

indicated by Fazello in the sixteenth century as

presenting ancient remains have never (so far as we

are aware) been visited by any modern traveller; no

good map of the island exists, which can be trusted

for topographical details, and there can be little

doubt that a minute and careful examination of the

whole country, such as has been made of the neigh­

bouring island of Sardinia by the Chev. De la Mar­

mora, would well reward the labours of the explorer.

Even the ruins described by Sir U. Hoare as existing

in the neighbourhood of Sta Croce, or those situated

near Vindicari, a few miles N. of Cape Pachynus

and commonly ascribed to Imachara, have never

been examined in detail, nor has any clue been ob­

tained to their identification.

The Itineraries give several lines of route through

the island, but many of the stations mentioned are

wholly uncertain, and were probably never more

than obscure villages or mere solitary jiostliouM's.

The first line of route (/(in. Ant. pp. 86—89) pro­

ceeds from Messana along the E. coast by Taurome-

nium and Acium to Catana, and from thence strikes

inland across the centre of the island to Agrigentum;

the coarse of this inland route is wholly uncertain

and the names of the three stations upon it, Capi-

toniana, Gelasium Philosophiana and Petiliaua, are

entirely unknown. From Agrigentum it followed

the line of coast to Lilybacum; the stations given

are Cena [Caena], Allava, Ad Aquas (i. e. the

Aquae Labodes or Thermae Selinuntiae), Ad fluvium

Lanarium, and Mazara; all except the 3rd and 5th

of very uncertain site. A second route (//in. Ant.

pp. 89, 90) proceeds in the inverse direction from

Lilybaeuni to Agrigentum, and thence by a more

southerly line, through Cslvisiana, Hybla, ami

Acrae {Palaszolo) to Syracuse, and from thence as

before along the E. coast to Messana. A third lino

follows the N. coast of the island from Lilybaeum

by Panonnus to Messana. The stations un this line

are better known and can for the most part be de­

termined: they are, Drepana, Aquae Segestanaa

(near Segesta), Parthenium (Airrinico), Hyccaia

(Muro di Carini), Panormus. Siluntum, Thennaev

Cephaloedium, Halesns(Alaesii). Calacte. Agatinnuu

(Agathyrnum), Tyndaris, and Messana. A fourt

route (/fin. Ant. p. 93) crossed the interior of th.

island from Thermae, where it branched off from th'-.

preceding, passing through Enna, Agyrinm, Centu-

i ripa and Aetna to Catana. A fifth gives us a

