302 MEDIA. MEDIOLANUM.

is, that the Ma^i were a priest-class among the

Median people; tint, like the Achaeinenidae in Persia,

a distinct or dominant tribe. (Cf. Strab. xvi. p. 962;

Cic. Divht. i. 41 j Porpliyr. Abstinent. 4. 16, &c.)

In other authors we find the following people**

counted among the inhabitants of Media, though it

may be doubted whether some of them do uot more

properly belong to one or more of the adjacent

nations. the Sagartii, Tapyri or Tapyrrhi, Matiani

Caspii, Cadusii, Gelae, and the Mardi or Amardi.

(See these under their respective names.) Herodotus

proceeds to state that originally the Medes were a

free people, who lived in separate villages, but that

at length they chose for themselves a king in the

person of Deioces, who built the celebrated city of

Kcbatana [Eobatama], and was succeeded by

l'hraortes and Cyaxares (i. 95—103). The reign

of the fonner was, he adds, terminated by a defeat

which he sustained (at Khages, Judith, i. 15); while,

during the commencement of that of the lutter, all

Western Asia was overrun by a horde of Scythians

(i. 103). There can be no doubt that for awhile

they were subject to, and formed a satrapy of, the

Assyrian empire, as stated by Diodorus (ii. 2); that

then they threw off the Assyrian yoke, as 6tated by

Herodotus (i. 106), and were ruled over by a series

of kings of their own for a long period. (Cf. Strab.

xi. p. 524.) Tho order and the names of these

rulers are differently stated; and it would be out of

place here to discuss at length one of the most dif­

ficult and disputed points of ancient chronology.

(Cf., however, Diod. ii. 24, 32; Herod, i. 95; and

Kuseb. Chron. Armen. i. 101; Clinton, Fast. Ihllen.

Tol. i. p. 257, app.) It may be remarked, that in

the Bible the first notico we find of the Medes,

exhibits them as the subjects of the Assyrian king

Salmaucser (2 Kings, xvii. 6), who was contem­

porary with the Jewish king Hoshca; while in the

later times of Nebuchadnezzar, they appear as a

warlike nation, governed by their own rulers.

(Isaiah, xiii. 17; Jtrem. xxv. 25, li. 11, 28.) It is

equally clear that the Medians were united to the

Persians by Cyrus, and formed one empire with

them (Herod, i. 129; Diod. ii. 34; Justin, i. 6),

anil hence are spoken of in the later books of the

Bible as a people subject to the same ruler as the

Persians, (/tan, v. 28, viii. 20; Esth. i. 3, &c.)

From this time forward their fute was the same as

that of the Persian monarchy; and they became in

succession subject to the Greeks, under Alexander

the Great, to the Syro-Macedonian rulers after his

death, and lastly to the Parthian kings. (Cf.

1 Mace vi. 56. xiv. 2; Strab. xvi. p. 745 j Joseph.

Antii/. xx. 3. § 3.)

Tho consent of history shows that in early times

the Medes were held to be a very warlike race,

who had a peculiar skill in the use of the bow.

(Isaiiih,xiii. 18; Herod, vii.62; Xen. Anab. ii. I.§ 7;

Strab. xi. p. 525,) They had al*o great knowledge

and practice in horsemanship, and were considered

in this, as in many other acquirements, to have

been the masters of the Persians. (Strab. xv.

pp. 525, 526, 531.) Hence, in the armament of

Xerxes, the Medes are described as equipped simi­

larly with the Persians, and Herodotus expressly

states that their dress and weapons were of Median,

not Persian origin (L c). In later apes they ap­

pear to have degenerated very much, and to have

adopted a luxurious fashion of life and dress (cf.

Xen. Cyrop. 13. § 2 ; Strab. /. c. j Ainmian. xxiii. 6),

which pasted from them to their 1'ersuo conquerors.

The religion of the Medes was a system of Star-

worship; their priests bearing, as we have re­

marked, the name of Magi, which was oommua to

them with the Persians, indeed was probably adopted

by the latter from the fonner. (Xen. Cyr. r». S;

Strab. xv. pp. 727, 735; Cic. Div. L 33.) The

principal object of their adoration was the Sun, and

then the Moon and the five planets, Jupiter, Yez.ua,

Satum, Mercury, and Mars. [V.]

MEDIAE Mt'KUS, mentioned only by nan* by

Xenophon, who calls it to VLnliat a-aAovfi**>or

rtixos. (Anab. ii. 4. § 12.) He states thai it

was 20 parasangs in length, 100 feet high, and 20

broad; and it may be inferred from bis narrative

that it was from 30 to 40 miles to the N. of

Baghdad. There can be little doubt that it was

the same work as that called by Strabo in two

places to itfupituios Siartlxio-pa (ii. p. 80. xi.

p. 529), and that it bad been built across the strip

of land where the Tigris and Euphrates appro-stli

most nearly, as a defence to the province of Baby­

lonia, which lay to the S. of it. There has been

much question, whether this great work can be

identified with any of the numerous mounds still

remaining in this part of Mesopotamia; but the

question has, we think, been set at rest by the

careful survey of Lieut. Lynch, in 1837. (Hay.

Oeogr. Journ. vol. ix. pp. 472, 473.) Mr. Lynch

.places the end adjoining the Tigris in N. 1st. $4J

3' 30", and long. 21' 50" YV. of Baghtldd. He

describes the existing ruins as an eiiibanknirnt or

wall of lime and pebbles, having towers or buttresses

on the northern or NW. face, and a wide and deep

fosse; and states, that, putting his horse at its full

speed, he galloped along it for more than an hour

without finding any appearance of temunatiou.

The natives, too, assured him that it extended la

the Euphrates. [\ J

MED1AM, AD. [Dacia, Vol. I. p. 744, b.1

MEDIA'XA, an imperial villa, 3 tniies (ran

Naissus, in Upper Moesia. (Ann. Marc. xxvi. 5.)

A town of this namo is mentioned, in the Peatiuz.

Table, on the road leading through Kliarlia al> ng

the Danube, opposite to Donautctrth, and set-ma u

bo the same as the modem Medinnrn. [ L- S. ]

MEDIOLA'XUM, a Gallic name of towns which

occurs in Gallia, North Italy, and Britain.

1. Mediolanum is placed in the Table balassa

Fomm Segustavarum (Fern) and Bodumna (Ron-

anne). As to IVAntilles remarks on the position

of Mediolanum, see FoltUM Segi/siaxoki/M- This

Mediolanum is supposed to have been a town af lbs

Transalpine Ishuhues, and so it is generally marked

in our maps; but the existence of those Transalpine

Insubres is hardly established. [Galxxa Cis.il-

riSA, Vol. I. p. 936.]

2. The Table places Mediolanum between Ar-

geubomagus (Argeniun) and Aquae Nerae (.Verw),

The figures which have been generally considered u

belong to this road, belong to another, and so wo

have no distances in the Table for this place. Me­

diolanum seems to be Chaltau Median, south of

Avaricum (llouryes). A milestone found at Alt-

champ between liourgts and ChiUau Mnlui*.

makes the distance from Avaricum to Mtdiubv-um

to be .'!9 M. P., which is not tar from list truth.

(Walckenaer, Grog, dr. vol. i. p. 67.)

3. The Antoniuo Itin. places a Mtdiolasjasa oa a

road from Colonia Trajana (Ktlin) to Cotoas*

Agrippina (Cologne), and 12 M. P. from CoUua

lraj-uia. 11 Culuuia Trajana is rightly placed, a ■

