LIPARA. LIPARA. 195

am>). Both he and Pliny inform us that it was'

originally called Meligunis (MfAryowfj); a name

that must probably be referred to the period befuro

the Greek colony; although ancient writers affirm |

that it derired the name of Lipara from Liparus, a

son of Auson, who reigned there before Aeolus, so

that they most hare referred the name of Meligunis

to a purely fabuloos age. (Plin. iii. 9. s. 14; Diod.

r. 7.) The name of Aeolus himself is inseparably I

connected with the Aeolian islands, and there can

lie no doubt that his abode was placed by the ear­

liest mythological traditions in Lipara itself, though

in later times this was frequently transferred to

Stronpyle. [Aeoliae Lnsulak, p. 52.]

Id the historical period the first mention that we

find of Lipara is tie settlement there of a Greek

rrdoiiy. This is assigned by Diodorus to the 50th

Olympiad (B.C. 580—577); and there seems no

reason to doubt this date, though Eusebius (on what

authority we know not) carries it back nearly 50

Tears, and places it as early as B. c. 627. (Diod.

r. 9; Euseb. Arm. p. 107; Clinton, F. ff. vol. i.

pp. 208, 232.) The colonists were Dorians from

t'nido* and Rhodes; but the former jieople predomi­

nated, and the leader of the colony, Pentathlus, was

himself a Cnidian, so that the city was always

reckoned a Cnidian colony. (Diod. /. c; Pans. x.

11. § 3; Thnc. iii. 88; Strab. vi. p. 275; Scymn.

Ch. 263.) According to some accounts Pentathlus

did not himself liTe to reach Lipara, but the colony

was founded by his sons. (Diod. L c.) Of its his­

tory we know scarcely anything for more than a

antnry and a half, but are told generally that it

attained to considerable power anil prosperity, and

that the necessity of defending themselves against

tire Tyrrhenian pirates led the Liparaeans to esta­

blish a naval force, with which they ultimately ob­

tained some brilliant victories over the Tyrrhenians,

awl commemorated these successes by costly ofl'er-

ir«» at Delphi. (Strab. I c.; Diod. v. 9; Pans. I.

11. § 3, 16. § 7.) It appears, however, that the

Liparaeans themselves were sometimes addicted to

piracy, and on one occasion their corsairs intercepted

a valuable offering that the Romans were sending to

Delphi; but their chief magistrate, Timasitheus, im­

mediately caused it to be restored and forwarded to

iu destination. (Diod. xiv. 93; Liv. v. 28; Val.

Ha. i. 1. $ 4.)

The territory of Lipara, though of small extent,

*a» fertile, and produced abundance of fruit; but  
its more important resources were its mines of alum,

arising from tbe volcanic nature of the soil, and tho

abundance of thermal sources proceeding from the

»me ca ise. Tbe inhabitants of Lipara not only

raltirated their own island, but the adjoining ones

*f Hiera, Strongyle, and Didyme as well; a proof  
that the population of Lipara itself must have been

considerable. (Tone. iii. 88; Diod. v. 10; Paus.

«. M. § 4; Strab. vi. p. 275.)

At the time of the first Athenian expedition to

Sicily under Laches (b. c. 427) the Liparaeans were

in alliance with tbe Syracusans, probably on account

of uvir Dorian descent; fur which reason they were

attacked by the Athenian and Rhegian fleet, but

"■•to no tenons result. (Thuc. iii. 88; Diod. xii.

54.) In n. c. 396 they again appear as iu friendly

«latx*s with Syracuse, and were in consequenco

attacW by the Carthaginian general Himilco, who

rade himself master of tbe city and exacted a con-

tronlini of 30 talents from the inhabitants. ( Diod.

*<*• 56.) It don not appear that the Carthaginians

at this time retained possession of Lipara; and wu

subsequently find it in the enjoyment of independ­

ence in b. c. 304, when the island was suddenly

attacked by Agathocles, in the midst of profound

peace, and without even a pretext for the aggression.

The invader carried off a booty of 50 talents,

which was, however, lost on his voyage to Sicily in

a storm, which was naturally attributed to the wrath

of Aeolus. (Id. xx. 101.) It could not have been

long after this that Lipara fell under the yoke of

Carthage, to which city it was subject at the out­

break ot the First Puuic War (b. c. 264), and from

its excellent ports, and advantageous situation for

commanding the N. coast of Sicily, became a fa­

vourite naval station with that people. (Id. xxii. 13,

p. 500.) In the fifth year of the war (b. c. 260),

the Roman consul, Cn. Cornelius, having been de­

ceived with the hopes of making himself master of

the island, was captured there, with his whole

squadron (Pol. i. 21); and in B.C. 257, a battle

was fought between the Carthnginian and Roman

fleets in its immediate neighbourhood (/A 25):

but a few years later it was at length taken by the

Romans, under C. Aurelius, and remained in their

hands from this time, B.C. 251. {lb. 39; Diod.

xxiii. 20; Zonar. viii. 14; Oros. iv. 8; Frontin.

Strat. iv. 1. § 31.)

At tho commencement of the Second Punic War

a considerable Carthaginian squadron was wrecked

on the shores of Lipara and the adjoining island of

Vutctmo (Liv. xxi. 49); but from this lime we find

no historical mention of it till the war between

Octavian and Sextus Pompeius in Sicily, in B.C. 36,

when Lipara and the adjoining islands once more

appear as a naval station of importance. It was

occupied and furtified by Pompeius, but taken by

Agrippa, who afterwards established his fleets at the

island of Vulcano, and from thence threatened the

forces of Pompeius at Mvlae and Messana. (Appian,

B.C. v. 97,105,112: Dion Cass. xlix. 1,7.) There

seems no doubt that Lipara continued to enjoy con­

siderable prosperity under the Roman government.

Diodorus praises its fertility, as well as the excel­

lence of its ports; and says that the Liparaeans de­

rived a large revenue from the monopoly of the trade

in alum. (Diod. v. 10.) Cicero, indeed, speaks of it

in disparaging terms, as "parva <i vitas, in insula

inculta tenuique posita" {Verr. iii. 37); but this

seems to be an oratorical exaggeration, and the im­

mediate reference of the passage is to corn, for the

growth of which Lipara could never have been well

adapted. But though suffering severely from drought

in summer (Thuc. iii. 88), owing to the volcanic

nature of the soil, the island is, nevertheless, one of

considerable fertility, and at the present day pro­

duces abundance of fruit, wine, and oil. (Smyth's

Sicily, p. 265; D'Orville, Simla, p. 18.)

Under the Roman Empire Lipara was some­

times used as a place of exile for political of­

fenders (Dion Cass, lxxvi. 6); and before the fall of

the Western Empire it became a favourite resort of

monks. At an earlier period of the Empire it was

frequented for its hot baths (Plin. xxxi. 6. s. 32;

Diod. v. 10), which are still in use at the present

day, being supplied from thermal springs : some

remains of ancient buildings, still visible, appear

to have been connected with these establishments.

A few fragments of walls may also be traced on the

hill crowned by the modern castle; and many coins,

fragments of sculpture, Ac, have been discovered

on the island. (Smyth's Sicily, p. 262.)

o 2

