382 MYCENAE. MYCENAE.

cuit, with the exception (if a small open space above

the precipitous cliil'ou the .southern side, which per­

haps was never defended by a wall. The walls are

more perfect than those of any other fortress in

Greece; in .some places they are 15 or 20 feet high.

They are bnilt of the dark-coloured limestone of the

surrounding mountains. Some parts of the walls

are built, like those of Tiryns, of huge blocks of

stone of irregular shape, no attempt being made to

tit them into one another, and the gaps being filled

up with smaller stones. But the greater part of the

walls consists of polygonal stones, skilfully hewn and

lilted to ono another, and their faces cut so as to

give t he masonry a smooth appearance. The nails also

present, in a few parts, a third species of masonry,

in which the stones are constructed of blocks of

nearly quadrangular shape; this is the case in the

approach to the Gate of Lions. This difference in

the masonry of the walls has been held to prove

that they were constructed at different ages; but

more recent investigations amidst the ruins of Greece

and Italy has shown that this difference in the style

of masonry cannot be regarded as a decisive test of

the comparative antiquity of walls; and Col .Mure

has justly remarked that, as there can l>e no reason­

able doubt that the approach to the Gate of Lions is

of the same remote autirjuity as ttie remainder of the

fabric,it would appear to have been the custom with

these primitive builders to pay a little more atten­

tion to symmetry and regularity in the more orna­

mental portions of their work.

The chief gate of the Acropolis is at the NW.

angle of the wall. It stands at right angles to the

adjoining wall of the fortress, and is approached by a

passage 50 feet long and 30 wide, formed by that

wall and by another wall exterior to it. The opening

of the gateway widens from the top downwards; but

at least two-thirds of its height are nowbuneAm

ruins. The width at the top of the door is 9J feec

This door was formed of two massive npnebti,

covered with a third bl<>ek, 15 feet long, 4 feet wide,

and G feet 7 inches high in the middle, tint £•

minishing at the two ends. Above this bkek is a

triangular gap in the masonry of the wall, funned ky

an oblique approximation of the side courses of Moot,

continued from each extremity of the lintel to si

apex above its centre. The vacant space is occupied

by a block of stone, 10 feet high, 12 broad, an) )

thick, upon the face of which are sculptural tws

lions in low relief, standing on their biiid-legv nasi

either side of a covered pillar, upon which they rsft

their fore-feet. The column becomes broad* to*

wards the top, and is surmounted with a capital,

formed of a row of four circles, enclosed between in

parallel fillets. The heads of the animals are sssfl

together with the apex of the cone that mrmoMtsi

the column. The block of stone, from which 1st

lions are sculptured, is said by Leake ao4 other

accurate observers to be a kind of gTeert basalt; fast

this appears to be a mistake. We learn from Mais

{Tour in Greece, vol. ii. p. 324) that the block fc

of the same /utlombiuo, or dove-coloured hmestaM,*!

whirli the native rock mainly consists, and that I

erroneous impression has been derived from tsi

colour of the poshed surface, which has recerni

from time and the weather a blueiah grets bss

The column between the lions is the enstnwsj

symbol of Apollo Agyieus, the protector of doors ssj

gates. (Mfiller, Dor. ii. 6. § 5.) This is alsopsnl

by the invocation of Apollo in the Agameuisdl S

Aeschylus (1078, 1083, 1271), and the Ekctra I

Sophocles (1374), in both of which txagedia ft

scene is laid in front of this gate.

GATi: OF THK UONS AT MYCENAE.

It has been well observed that this pair of lions

Stands to the art of Greece somewhat in the same

relation as the Iliad and the Odyssey to her litera­

ture; the one, the only extant specimens of the

plastic skill of her mythical era. the other, the only

genuine memorials of its chivalry and its song. The

best observers remark that the animals are in a style

of art peculiar to themselves, and that they have little

or nothing of that dry linear stiflnoss which charac­

terises the earlier stages of the art of sculpture in

almost every country, and present consequently as

little resemblance to the Archaic style of the L

lenio works of a later period as to those of Eg

itself. "The special peculiarities of their essi

tion are a certain solidity and rotundity amosjaf

to clumsiness in the limbs, as compared with ]

bodies. The hind-legs, indeed, an- more Uki 4

of elephants than lions; the thighs, espeuafly,)

of immense bulk and thickness. This unifcfl

able feature, however, is compensated by ssj

natural ease and dignity of attitude. The tuni

of the body and shoulders is admirable,

