VOMAXVS. 1325 I7EBA.

VOMANUS ( Votnano), a river of Picennm, which

rues in the lofty group of the Apennines now known

as the Gran Satto dltalia, and flows into the

Adriatic, after pausing within a few miles to the N.

of the city of Adria (/l(n'). Its name is mentioned

by Pliny only (iii. 13. § 18). [E. H. B.J

VORDENSES, in Gallia Narbonensia, an ethnic

name which occurs in an inscription found at Apt,

the aileof Apta Julia [Aita Julia]. The in­

scription states that the " Vordenses pagani" de­

dicate this monument to their patronus, who is

designated "imvir" of the Colonia Apta. The

place is supposed to be Gordet, which is contiguous

to the diocese of Apt, and in that of Cavaillon. The

change of Vord into Gonl is easily explained. [Va-

riNCDM.] (D'Anville Notice, dr ) [G. L.]

VOKEDA, a town of the Brigantes in Britannia

Romana, on the road from Cataracton to Lugu-

Talliuin. (ltin. Ant. p. 4f>7.) It is variously iden­

tified with Old Penrith, Whelp Cattle, and Coal

/Hilt. By the Geogr. Bat. (r. 31) it is called

BemU. [T. H. D.]

VORGA'XIUM (Ouopyinor), in Gallia Lugdu-

nensis, the capital of the Osismii [Osismii]. a

Celtic people in the north-west part of liretagne

(PtoL ii. 8. § 5). This seems to be the same

place as the Vorginum of the Table; and it appears

on a route which leads from the capital of the

Xainnetes through the capital of the Veneti, and

ends on the coast at Gesocribate, or Gesobrirate, as

some would write it. Between the capital of the

Veneti and Vorginum is Sulis, supposed to be at the

junction of the Suel and the Biuret [Si'Lia],

From Sulis to Vorginum the distance is marked

xxiiiL, and this brings us to a place named

Karhex (D'Anville). But all this is very un-

cvrlain. Others fix Vorginum at a place named

Cuemeni [G. L.]

VOKO'GIUM, in Gallia, is placed in the table on

a road from Augustonemetum (Clermont Ferrand)

through Aquae Calidae (Vichy) to Ariolica (yicrtT/i).

The distance is marked viii. from Aquae Caliilae,

and xiiii. from Vorogium to Ariolica. There is A

place named Vouroux, which is the same name as

Vurngium. Vouroux is near the small town of

I'arennet. and somewhat nearer to the banks of the

Allier. The direct distance from the springs of

I'tcAy to Varennet is soniewhat less than the ltin.

diKtmnce of viii. Gallic leagues, but the 8 leagues are

not more than we may assign to the distance from

Vichy to Varennet along the river. But the ltin.

distance from Vorogium to Ariolica is soniewhat too

large compared with the real distance. (D'Anville,

Notice. frc.) [G.L.]

VOSAMA. [Vosata.]

VOSAVA or VOSAVIA, in North Gallia, is

placed by the Table on the Roman mad Along the

west bank of the Rhine, and between Bontobrice or

BaudobricA (Iiuppart) [Bai'DOBRIca] and Bin-

piura (Bingen) It stands half-way between these

places and at the distance of viiii. Vosava is Ober-

vretel on the Rhine, north of Bingtn; and it is

avlmost certain, as D'Anville suggests, that the name

is erroneously written iu the Table, and that it

abouM be Vosalia. [G.I..]

VCSEGUS (Vogeten, Vatgau, Vosges). The

form Vosegus has better authority than Vogeans

(Schneider's Cottar, B. G. iv. 10) ; and the modern

name also is in favour of the fonn Vosegus. Lucan

is sometimes quoted as Authority fur the form

Vogesos:

"Castraqne quae Vogesi curram super ardua rupem

Pugnaces pictis cohibebant Lingonas armis."

(Phartal i. 397.)

The name is Boo-^kof in the Greek version of the

Commentaries.

Caesar says that the Mosa (ifaai) rises in the

Vosegus, by which he means that the hills in which

the Moot rises belong to the Votget. But be says

no more of this range. The battle with Ariovistua,

B. c. 58. was fought between the southern extremity

of the Votget and the Rhine, but Caesar (B. G.

i. 43. 48) gives no name to the range under which

Ariovistua encamped in the great plain between the

Voiget and the Rhine. D'Anville observes that

an inscription in honour of the god Vosegus wai

found at Berg-Zabern on the confines of Alsace And

the Palatinate, which proves that the name Vosegus

extended as far as that place. It seems likely that

the name was given to the whole range now called

Votget, which may he considered as extending from

the depression in which is formed the canal of the

Rhone and Rhine, between Bifort and Altkirch,

to the bend of the Mine between Haitu and

Bingen, a distance of above 170 miles. The range

of the Votget is pArallel to the Rhine. The hilly

country of the Faucillet in which the Maat rises

is west of the range to which the name of Votget

is now given. The Votget are partly in France,

and partly in Rhenish Bavaria and llette Darm-

ttadt.

The territory of the Seqnani originally extended

to the Rhine, ami the southern part of the Votget

was therefore included in their limits. North ot the

Seqnani and west of the Votget were the Leuci and

Mcdiomatrici; and east of the Votget and between

the Votget and the Rhine were the Rauraci, Triboci,

Nemetes, Vangiones, and Caracates.

In the Table the Silva Vosagns is marked as a

long forest on the west side of the Rhine. Pliny

(xvi. 39) also speaks of the range of the Vosegus

as containing timber. [G. I..]

UR. a castle of the Persians mentioned by Ammi-

anus Marcellinus (xxv. 8), in his account of the war

between Julian and the Persians. It must have

been situated in Mesopotamia, at no great distance

from Iiatra (Al-llathr). It has been generally

supposed that Ur is the same place as that men­

tioned in Genesis (xi. 28); but the recent researches

of Colonel Bawlinson have demonstrate*) that the Ur

whence Abraham started was situated in the S. part

of Babylonia, at a place now called MMother.

(Joum. Roy. At. Soc. 1855.) [V.]

URAXOTOMS (OopwoiroXii), a town in the

peninsula Acte of Chalcidice in Macedonia, of which

we know nothing, except that it was founded by Alex-

archus, the brother of Cassander, king of Macedonia

(Athen. iii. p. 98; Plin. iv. 10. s. 17). As Pliny

does not mention Sane in his list of the towns of

Acte, it has been conjectured by Leake that Urano.

polis occupied the site of Sane. (Northern Greece,

roL in. p. 149.)

URANO'POLIS (OtoorowoXir). a town of Pi-

sidia, in the district of Cabalia, to the north-west of

Termessus, and south-east of Isionda. (I'tol. v. 5.

§ 6.) [L. 8.]

URBA, a town of Gallia, in the territory of tbs

Helvetii. It is placed in the Antonine ltin. be­

tween Lacus Lausonius and Ariolica [Abiouca],

xviii. from Lacus LAusonius and xxiiii. from Ario­

lica. Urba is Orbe in the Swiss Canton Waadt or

Payt de Vaud, on the road from the Lake of Acs/.

