MANTINEIA. 2fil MANTIXEIA.

mints farmed an alliance with Argos, Elis, and

Alliens, in B. c 421, and thus became involved in

war with Sparta. (Thuc. T. 29, 33, 47.) This

war was brought to a close by the decisive battle

fought near Mantineia, in June, 418, in which the

Argives, Mantineians, and Athenians were defeated

by the Lacedaemonians under Agis. This battle

was fought to the S. of Mantineia, between the city

and the frontiers of Tegea, and is the first of the

five great battles bearing the name of Mantineia.

The Mantineians now concluded a peace with Sparta,

renouncing their dominion over the districts in Ar­

cadia, which they bad conquered. (Thuc. v. 65,

•eq... 81.)

Mantineia continued an unwilling ally of Sparta

far the next 33 years j but in the second year after

the peace of Antalcidas, which had restored to the

Spartans a great part of their former power, they

resolved to crush for ever this obnoxious city. Ac­

cordingly, they required the Mantineians to raze

their walls; and upon the refusal of the latter, they

marched against the city with an army under the

ftmmand of their king Agesipolis (b. c. 385),

alleging that the truce for 30 years had expired,

which had been concluded between the two states

after the battle of 418. The Mantineians were

defeated in battle, and took refuge in their city,

prepared to withstand a siege; but Agesipolis having

raised an embankment across the river Opbis, which

fljwed through Mantineia, forced bnck the waters of

the river, and thus caused an inundation around

the walls of the city. These walls, being built of

unbaked bricks, soon began to give way; and the

Mutioeiang, fearing that the city would be taken by

ataaalt, were obliged to yield to the terms of the

Spartans, who required that the inhabitants should

quit the city, and be dispersed among the villages,

fran the coalescence of which the city had been

originally formed. (Xen. Bell v. 2. §§ 6, 7; Diod.

i». 5; Ephorus, ap. Barpocrat. ». v. MmripeW

taaurfiit; Pol. iv. 27; Paus. viii. 8. § 7, seq.)

Of the forces of 31antinei;t shortly before this time

we have an account from the orator Lysias, who

uvs that the military population or citizens of Man­

tineia were not leas than 3000, which will give

13.000 fur the free population of the Mantineian

territrtT. (Lvsias, ap. Dionyt. p. 531; Clinton,

F.H. vol. ii. p. 416.)

The Mantineians did not long remain in this dis­

persed condition. When the Spartan supremacy

•a overthrown by the batt'e of Leuctra in 371,

the; again assembled together, and rebuilt their city.

Tbey took care to exclude the river from the new

citr. and to make the stone substructions of the walls

hither than they had been previously. (Xen. Bell

vi. 5. § 3; Paus. viii. 8. § 10; Leake, Morea, vol.

iii. p. 73.) The Mantineians took an active part in

the formation of the Arcadian confederacy, and in

t!« foundation of Megalopolis, which followed imme.

diitely after the restoration of their own city; and

one of their own citizens, Lycomedes, was the chief

prwwiter of the scheme. But a few years afterwards

the Mantineians, for reasons which are not distinctly

meoiijned, quarrelled with the supreme Arcadian

rortmnwnt, and formed an alliance with their in­

veterate enemies the Spartans. In order to put

d^wa thia new coalition, Epaminondas marched into

toe Peloponnesus; and Mantineia was again the

wae of another great battle (the second of the five

tilled to above), in which the Spartans were de­

bated, but which wag rendered still more uiemo-

rable by the death of Epaminondas. (Xen. Hell

vii. 5; Diod. xv. 84.) The site of this battle is de­

scribed below. The third and fourth battles of Man­

tineia are only incidentally mentioned by the an­

cient writers: the third was fought in 295, when

Demetrius Poliorcetes defeated Archidamus and the

Spartans (PluL Demetr. 35); the fourth in 242,

when Aratus and the Achacans defeated the Spar­

tans under Agis, the latter falling in the battle.

(I'aus. viii. 10. § 5, seq.)

Mantineia continued to bo one of the most power­

ful towns of Arcadia down to the time of the

Achaean League. It at first joined this league ; but

it subsequently deserted it, and, together with

Orchomenus and Tegea, became a member of the

Aetolian confederacy. These three cities at a later

time renounced their alliance with the Aetolians,

and entered into a close union with Sparta, about

B. c. 228. This step was the immediate cause of

the war between the Achaeans and the Spartans,

usually called the Cleomenic War. In 226, Arutus

surprised Mantineia, and compelled the city to re­

ceive an Achaean garrison. The Mantineians soon

afterwards expelled the Achaeans, and again joined

the Spartans; but the city was taken a second time,

in 222, by Antigunus Doson, whom the Achaeans

had invited to their assistance. It was now treated

with great severity. It was abandoned to plunder,

its citizens were sold as slaves, and its name changed

to Antigoneia ('AirryoVeia), in compliment to the

Macedonian monarch (Pol. ii. 57, seq.; Plut. AraU

45 ; Paus. viii. 8. § 11). In 207, the plain of

Mantineia was the scene of a fifth great battle,

between the Achaean forces, commanded by Philo-

poemen, and the Lacedaemonians, under the tyrant

Machanidas, in which the latter was defeated and

slain. An account of this battle is given by Poly-

bius, from whom we learn that the Achaean army

occupied the entire breadth of the plain S. of the

city, and that their light-armed troops occupied the

hill to the E. of the city called Alesium by Pausanios.

The Lacedaemonians were drawn up opposite to

the Achaeans ; and the two armies thus occupied

the same position as in the first battle of Manti­

neia, fought in the Peloponnesian War. (Pol.

xi. 11.) The Mantineians were the only Arcadian

people who fought on the side of Augustus at the

battle of Actium. (Paus. viii. 8. § 12.) The city

continued to bear the name of Antigoneia till the time

of Hadrian, who restored to it its ancient appellation,

and conferred upon it other marks of his favour, in

honour of his favourite. Antinous, because the Bi-

thynians, to whom Antinous belonged, claimed

descent from the Mantineians. (Paus. viii. 8. § 12,

viii. 9. §7.)

The territory of Mantineia was bounded on tho

W. by Mt. Maenalus, and on tho E. by Mt. Artemi-

siuin, which separated it from Argolis. Its north­

ern frontier was a low narrow ridge, separating it

from Orchomenia; its southern frontier, which

divided it from Tegcatis, was formed by a narrow

part of the valley, hemmed in by a projecting ridge

from Mt. Maenalus on the one side, and by a r-imilar

ridge from Mt. Artemisius on tho other. (See below.)

The territory of Mantineia forms part of the plain now

called the plain of Tripolitzti, from the modern town

of this name, lying between the undent Mantineia

and Tegea, and which is the principal place in the

district. This plain is about 25 English miles in

length, with a breadth varying from 1 to 8, and

includes, besides the territory of Mantineia, that of

■ 3

