HLAESTIXA. PALAESTINA. 517

''i* iocndaries, as do the sacred writers and

y*[lax, we may cow take a general view of its

>iir«il features which have always so much to do

rj) the formation of the character of the inha-

l-ianta. It is well described in its principal fea-

tsm, b tbe book of Deuteronomy, as " a land of

lnii of water, of fountains and depths, that spring

*r of TaQets and hills; a land of wheat, and barley,  
i-klnacs,and fig-trees,and pomegranates: a land of

44m, ad hooey; a land wherein thou shalt eat

without scarceness; thou shalt not lack any-

enr b it; a land whose stones are iron, and out of

»ha» Mb tioo mayest dip; brass" (viii. 7—9;

««& a. 11,12). The great variety of its natural

unices must be ascribed to the diversified cha-

kt fortace and the natural richness of its

ni. which was obviously taxed to the utmost by

=»al*trTof its numerous inhabitants; for there

b fc> jut of tbe hill countrr, however at present

feta> and depopulated, which does not bear evi-

«w -f ancient agricultural labour in it

agricultural labour in its scarped

M> ad ruined terrace-walls; while in the vicinity

4 a ajodera villages, the rude traditionary style

^ taaUnrirr, unimproved and unvaried for 3000

•an, raitiea tbe traveller to realise the ancient

awufcy at' this highly favoured land, and the oc-

flscKWi of its inhabitants, as well as the genius

4 tatr pnetrr, all whose images are borrowed from

ar-r^nd and pastoral pursuits. As the peculiar

cWrterbtie feature in the geography of Greece is

fcrsrt proportion of its sea-border to its superficial

» toe peculiarity of the geography of Palestine

fa? W aul to be tbe undue proportion of mountain,

frranW hill country, to its extent. In the districts

f TiW^ Akka, and Damascus, three descriptions

£ «. pTTiiL In general that of the mountainous

v Palestine and central Syria is dry and stony,

tfmvd in a great measure from the debris of

af which a large portion of the surface of tbe

» of Lebanon, the Hauran, and Ledja, with

countries of Judaea, are composed;

ft «■ ifd, however, with the alluvium constantly

P(V. d'-wa by the irrigating streams. Tho

sad richest district are the plains of Es-

Kaalbek, part of the Decapolis,

castas, as well as the valleys of the Jordan

Etea, which fur the most part consist of a

\ aanr *<il Being almost without a pebble, it

s-abra dry, a fine brown earth, like garden

■"tacit, whm saturated by the rains, is

■ ^^rrire, and in the early part of the

f Wanes a marsh: when cultivated, most

■t orp of tobacco, cotton, and grain are

I TV mnaiDdeT of tbe territory chiefly

■ af toe plains called Barr by the Arabs, and

'rr tt* Hebrews, both words signifying simply

t 4 bad left entirely to nature, and being

I t" the pasture tracts about almost every

t Syria, as well as to those spots where vegc-

eatirely fails. Such spots prevail in

atj 'xwirfM the eastern side of the country,

■V «d is mostly an indurated clay, with

arntrej of Erne* tone bills separating different

4!kr ■trfice. The better description of soil

laaawhr diverstned bv bill and dale, and has

*4 toe %\ pnuance of some of our downs, but  
Hi *tta the bquorice plant, mixed with

hahrtai, and occsu>iuiutlly some dwarf trees,

■ '-i* 'ainari>k and acacia. Many of the

•attvaH of the Jordan (Peraea) are of this

^*«. farocsuarly those near the Hauran,

which, under the name of Roman Arabia, had Bozra

for its capital. The inferior tracts are frequently

coated with pebbles and black flints, having little,

and sometimes no vegetation. Such are the greater

portions of the tracts southward of Gaza and

Hebron, and that part of the pashalick which borders

upon Arabia Deserta, where scarcity of water has

produced a wilderness, which at best is only capable

of nourishing a limited number of sheep, goats, and

camels: its condition is the worst in summer, at

which season little or no rain falls throughout the

eastern parts of Syria.

Owing to the inequality of its surface, Palestine

has a great variety of temperature and climate,

which have been distributed as follows.—(1) The

cold; (2) warm and humid; (3) warm and dry. The

first belongs principally to the Lel»anon range and

to Mount Hermon, in tho extreme north of the

country, but is shared in some measure by the

mountain districts of Kablus, Jerusalem, ami

Hebron, where the winters arc often very severe,

the springs mild, and a refreshing breeze tempers

the summer heat. The second embraces the slopes

adjoining the coast of the Mediterranean, together

with the adjacent plains of Akka, Jaffa, and Gaza;

also those in the interior, such as Esdraelon, the

valley of the Jordan, and part of Peraea. The third

prevails in the south-eastern parts of Syria, the

contiguity of which to the arid deserts of burning

sand, exposes them to the furnace-blasts of the

sirocco untempered by the humid winds which pre­

vail to the west of the central highlands, while the

depression of the southern part of the Jordan valley

and the Dead Sea gives to the plain of Jericho and

the districts in the vicinity of that sea an Egyptian

climate. (Col. Chesney, Expedition to the Euphrates,

$c. vol. i. pp. 533—537.)

II. Gkology, Natural Divisions, and Pro­

ductions.

The general geographical position of Palestine is

well described in the following extract: — "That

great mountain chain known to the ancients under

the various names of Imaus, Caucasus, and Tauru.s,

which extends due east and west from China to

Asia Minor; this chain, at the point where it enters

Asia Minor, throws off to the southward a subor­

dinate ridge of hills, which forms the barrier be­

tween the Western Sea and the plains of Syria

and Assyria. After pursuing a tortuous course fur

some time, and breaking into the parallel ridges of

Libanus and Antilibanus, it runs with many breaks

and divergencies through Palestine and the Arabian

peninsula to the Indian Ocean. One of the mast

remarkable of these breaks is the great plain of

Esdraelon, the battle-field of the East. From this

point. . . the ridge or mountainous tract extends,

without interruption, to the south end of the Dead

Sea, or further. This whole tract rises gradually

towards the south, forming the hill country of

Ephraim and Judah, until, in the vicinity of Hebron,

it attains an altitude of 3250 feet above the level of

the Mediterranean. At a point exactly opposite to

the extreme north of the Dead Sea, i.e. due west

from it, where the entire ridge has an elevation of

about 2710 feet, and close to the saddle of the

ridge, a very remarkable feature of this rocky pro­

cess, so to call it. occurs. The appearance is as if

a single, but vast wave of this sea of rock, rising

and swelling gradually from north to south, had

been suddenly checked in its advance, and. after a

I. L 3

I

