r..i i MESSANX MKSSA.

by the present llfotvl.—the name of which is pro-

liaMy a corruption of tlic old name,—and tliat the

ruins of Ktiywijik, in its immediate neighbourhood

(now certainly ascertained, by Colonel ltawlinson's

decipherment of the inscriptions found there, to

liave been a vast palace erected by Sennacherib),

ure those which Xenophon beheld in a state much

less injured by time and violence than they are

at present. (Layard, Nineveh and Babylon, p.

658.) [V.j

MESSA (M«o-cT7j), one of the nine cities of La-

conia enumerated by Homer, who gives it the epithet

of TroKvTpfouiv, "abounding in pigeons" (/£ ii. 502).

Strabo says that the position of Messa was unknown

(viii. p. 364); but l'ansanias mentions a town and

harbour, named Messa (iii. 25. § 9). which is iden­

tified by most modern scholars with the Homeric

town. This Messa, now Mezapo, is situated on

the western coast of Mani, between Hippola and

Oetylus; and the cliffs in the neighbourhood are

said to abound in wild pigeons. (Leake, Morea,

vol. i. p. 286; Boblaye, Hechercha, <fc. p. 91;

Curtius, l'tloponneios, vol. ii. p. 282.) Leake,

however, has subsequently conjectured that Messa

corresponds to Mittra in the Spartan plain, partly

on account of its site, and partly because the

Messa of Pausanias could never, from its situation,

have been a place of much importance. (Pelopon-

nesiaca, p. 357.) But there does not appear any

sufficient reason for rejecting the identity of the

Messa of Pau&inias with the Messe of Homer.

MESSABATE'NE (Plin. vi. 27. s. 31 ; Mefftro-

fiaTun). Strab. xi. p. 524: F.th. VliaaaSirat, Ptol.

vi. 4. § 3), a narrow district in the mid-land of

Susiana (as indeed its name implies), situated ac­

cording to Pliny under Mt. Cambalidus (one of the

southern spurs of Mt. Zagros), to the N. of the tribe

of the Cossiaci. Strabo states that it lies nnder

Zngrus, and is either a part of Media, or, as others

hold, of Elrmaea (xi. p. 524): in another place he

calls Massabatice an eparchatc of Elymaea, and

adds that the best pass into Assyria lay through it

(xvi. p. 744). Ptolemy (I. c), who does not mention

the district by its name, makes the Messabatae the

inhabitants of Paraetacene, itself a subdivision of

Persis, adjoining Media. [V.]

MESSA'NA or MESSE'NE (Meo-ffTjnj in almost

all Greek authors, but the Doric form Mfffo'dVo,

which is found in Pindar, was universally in use

among the citizens themselves, and was from them

adopted by the Romans, who always write the name

Mcssana: Eth. M*<rtrQytoi and MfffffdVior, Messa-

nensis: ifessiiw), an important city of Sicily, situated

on the strait which divided that island from Italy,

nearly oppnMto to Khegitim, and only a few miles

from Cape Pelorus, the NE. extremity of the island.

It was originally called Zanci.k (Zd-vsAn: lii/i.

ZayxKiuos), a name said to be of Siculian origin, de­

rived from ZdyicKoy, which in the language of that

people meant a sickle, aud was obviously applied to

the spot from the peculiar configuration of tlieenrved

spit or point of sand which encloses its port. (Thuc.

vi. 4; Steph. Byz. t. v. Ziyic\ri; Strab. vi. p. 268;

Diod. iv. 85.) From this derivation of the name it

would appear probable that there was a Siculian set­

tlement on the spot, before it was occupied by the

Greeks; but no mention of this is found in history,

and all ancient writers describe Zancle as a Chalcidic

colony. According to Thm-ydides it was at first

founded by a band of pirates from the ItaliAn Cumae,

itself a colony of Chalcis; but the advantageous

sitnation of the place soon led to the establishment

there of a more regular colony, consisting of settlors

from Chalcis and the other cities of Eub>«. at the

head of whom were Perieres of Chalci* and Cratae-

inenes of Cumae, who became the joint founders <r

Oekists of the new colony (Thuc, vi. 4). This state­

ment ofThucydides is confirmed in its leading pouts

by l'ansanias; while Scymnos Cuius, aa well as

Strabo, though agreeing in its Chalcidic origin, ra>

present it as founded immediately from the Chalrsiie

colony of Naxos in Sicily. (Paus. iv. 23. § 7: Scyma.

Ch. 284—286; Strab. vi. p. 268.) From this Urf

version we may infer that it was looked upon as ri

more recent origin than Naxos, and therefore i»*

founded till after 735 B. c; bnt we have no c'.a* \»

the precise, or even approximate date, of its esta­

blishment. Of its early history we know scarcely

anything; but we may probably infer that it ro-e

early to a flourishing condition, from the circumstarsw

that the Zanclaeans were able before the cloae of the

seventh century B. c. to establish two colonies on lbs

N. coast of the island: Mylae, about 30 milea W. M

Cape Pelorus, and Himera, much further to the W.

(Thuc vi. 5; Scymn. Ch. 288; Strab. vi. p. 272 )

The latter grew up into a great and powerful cily.

hut Mylae appears to have continued for the oval

part a mere dependency of Zancle. (Strab. L c.)

The Zanclaeans appear to hare been still desir-jos

of extending their colonial system in this direction,

and were endeavouring to induce fresh settlers from the

Ionian cities of Asia to co-operate with them in this

enterprise, when the fall of Miletus in B. c 494

gave a fresh impulse to emigration from that quarter.

A large body of Samians, together with some of tha

surviving Milesians, were in consequence induced U

accept the invitation of the Zanclaeans, and srt oat

for Sicily, with the purpose of establishing themselves

on the N. coast between Mylae and Himera, which

was commonly known as " the Fair Shore ^ (if KaXk

'A/tTij.) But having arrived, on their way, at Lorn

Epizephyrii, they were here per.-ua.led by AnaxiUa,

tyrant of Rhegium, to take a treacherous advairum

of the absence of the Zanclaean troops, who were

engaged in military operations eUewhere, and surprise

the city of Zancle itself. That city was at this lima

under the government of a despot named Scythe*, to

whom Herodotus gives the title of king. On finding

themselves thus betrayed, the Zanclaeans invoked

the assistance of the powerful Hippocrates, despot of

Gela: but that monarch in his turn betrayed them,

and instead of aiding them to recover pns-eassa c«T

Zancle, made common cause with the Samians. whom

he confirmed in the possession of the city, while ha

threw Scythes into prison, and reduced the greater

part of the Zanclaeans into captivity. (Ilrrod. vi Tt

—24: Thuc vi. 4; Scymn. Ch. 293: Arist. /'oi v.

3.) By this sudden revolution, the Samians faosd

themselves in undisputed possession of Zancle, bat

they did not long enjoy their new ac*}ui>itiuo. Nat

many years afterwanla they were in their turn re­

duced to subjection by Anaxilas himself, who is aaai

to have expelled them from the city, which he

peopled with a mixed body of colonists, wtula b>

gave to it the name of Messene, in resnetnbraiic* <d

the land of that name in Greece, from which his on

ancestors derived their descent. (Thuc. vi. 4; Herod.

vii. 164; Strab. vi. p. 268.)

The exact period uf this revolution caaaat ka de­

termined with certainty; but the first trt*lTr«n: U

the Samians at Zstu le cannot be carried back further

tlutu u c. 493, while their subw^utol expahuoo «r

