TALAESTIXA.

TALAESTINA. 519

Jit pat Human (Jrbti-tt-Sheich) rises high

sV.ii tin etaer moan tains.

Tbt nBrji in bo longer inhospitable ravines;

Ifcf burnt Jong and broad, and partly form plains

iflap oust, u Ksdraelon. A beautiful pasture

jsl mrad» to the heights of the mountains. Con-

uttnblt smntsio ttreams water the valleys.

11) To the east of this mountain chain lies the

•Ik; of the Jordan, the most remarkable of all

lawi drorenioss of the earth, as well on account

c a pert length ss of its almost incredible depth.

> Mow, HI. ltd IV.]

li) Ok the east of the Dead Sea and the Jordan

<itn, sua tht sss of Tiberias, rises like a wall a

a*f msatsis range of Jura limestone. On the

«e a'lha ie> s broad plateau inhabited by nomadic

intt lad itaaonsrj tribes. The southern part of

tax highlands is known by the name of Jebtl

MU; farther north, beyond the Zerka, in the

asttarlwd of the lofty Ajlim, it meets the

Mrusss of Kt-Zoutil; and still further north

larai the well known plateau Et-llauran, which,

atiiias1 chiefly by Arabs and Druses, is bounded

k i&iicans* and the Syrian desert, joins the pla­

sm of Duaucos, and there reaches a height of

MM fans feet shore the sea.

III. TitE Jordan.

7b snt celebrated river of Judaea, and the only

•n* of sit considerable size in the country. Its

f has not been successfully investigated by

repose a compound of Yor and

o fountains bearing these names,

ass stick lbs river derived its origin and appella­

tors & Jerome (OmnxatL s. v. Dan) derives it

tJtr. which he says is equivalent to frudpov,

K «s /Asa the city, where one of its principal

**sos w» situated. But there are serious ob-  
kckss to bxh parts of this derivation. For in the

r?on yK\ is the Hebrew form of the equivalent

J^m, while the proper name is always JTV,

jyTX', as the proposed etymology would

: *hde the name Dan, as applied to the city

k a five centuries Liter than the first mention

• met in the book of Genesis; and the theory

fractal**) in the numerous passages of the Pen-

is which it occurs is scarcely admissible

xviiL; 6'ew. xiii. 10, xxxii. 10; Job,

91 ahhoogh Pan is certainly so used in at

(Cea. xiy. 14.) Besides which,

• ai remarked that the rowel always written

I syllable of the river is different from

'«*»■ aoDosyllabic city, ft, and not |"J. He

^"H* laoier derivation from the root TV, de-

"«War. so denoting a ricer, as this, in

jjkp *itk other rivers which he instances, might

■■aVi air' ('{orvrr: and as Josephus does call it

W.*rt**', without any distinctive name (Ant

inscribing the borders of Issacbar.

'» sao adopted by Gesenius, Lee, abd other

(Lee, Lexiam, t. s\)

■saBce of this river is a question involved in

r in the ancient records; and there is

! ten of Josephus, which has added

Is the difficulty. The subject was

^*»wir»!ed by the writer in 1842, and the

c stated below,

> Jwlsa has three principal sources: (1) at

T, th> uca-ct Cacsarea I'kilippi; ("() at Tell-

el-Kadi, the site of the ancient Dan, about two

miles to the west of Banuu; (3) at flatbeia, some

distance to the north of Tell-eUKadi. These several

sources require distinct notice,

1. The fountain at Banieu is regarded by Josephus

and others as the proper source of the Jordan, but

not with sufficient reason. It is indeed a copious

fountain, springing out from the earth in a wide

and rapid but shallow stream, in front of a cave

formerly dedicated to Pan; but not at all in the

manner described by Josephus, who speaks of a

yawning chasm in the cave itself, and an unfathom­

able depth of still water, of which there is neithor

appearance nor tradition at present, the cave itself

being perfectly dry. {Bett. Jud. i. 21. § 3.) He

states, however, that it is a popular error to con­

sider this as the source of the Jordan. Its true

source, he subsequently says (iii. 9. § 7), was ascer­

tained to be at Phiala, which he describes as a cir­

cular pool, 120 stadia distant from Caesareia, not

far from the road that led to Trachonitis, i. e. to

the east. This pool, he says (named from its form),

was always full to the brim, but never overflowed,

and its connection with the fountain at Paneas was

discovered by Herod Philip the tetrarch in the fol­

lowing manner: — He threw chart* into the lake

Phiala, which made its appearance again at the

fountain of Paneas. This circular, goblet-shaped

pool, about a mile in diameter, is now called Birktl-

er-Iiam. It is situated high in a bare mountain

region, and strongly resembles the crater of an ex­

tinct volcano. It is a curious error of Irhy and

Mangles to represent the surrounding hills as

"richly wooded" (TravtU, p. 287). The water is

stagnant, nor is tbero any appearance or report

among the natives of any stream issuing from the

lake, or of any subterranean communication with

the fountain of Paneas. The above-named travel­

lers correctly represent it as having "no apiiarent

supply or discharge." The experiment of Philip is

therefore utterly unintelligible, as there is no stream

to carry off the chaff. (For a view of Phiala, see

Traill's Jostphut, voL ii. p. 46, and lxxx. &c.)

2. The second fountain of the Jordan is at Tell-

tl-Kadi. [Dan.] This is almost equally copious

with the first-named; and issues from the earth in a

rapid stream on the western side of the woody hill,

on which traces of the city may still he discovered.

The stream bears the ancient name of the town,

and is called Nahr Leddn, " the river Letlun" some­

times misunderstood by travellers as the ancient

name of the river, which certainly no longer

exists among the natives. This is plainly the

Daphne of Josephus, "having fountains, which,

feeding what is called the little Jordan, under the

temple of the golden calf, discharge it into the

great Jordan." (Bell. Jud. iv. 1. § 1, conf. Ant.

viu. 8. § 4; and soe Reland, Palaeitma, p. 263.)

3. A mile to the west of Tell-el-Kadi, runs the

Nahr Matbany, the ffasbeia river, little inferior to

either of the former. It rises 6 or 8 miles to the

north, near the large village of llaabda, and being

joined in its course by a stream from Mount lier-

mon, contributes considerably to the bulk of the

Jordan. It is therefore somewhat remarkable that

this tributary has been unnoticed until compara­

tively modern times. (Kobinson, Bib. 1U». vol. iii.

p. 354, note 2.)

These three principal sources of the Jordan, as

the natives affirm, do not intermingle their waters

until they meet in the small lake now called Bair-

I. l. 4

i

