IASPIS. IATRUS. 5

coast of Pantos, 130 stadia to the north-east of IV

letnoninm; it is the most projecting cape on that

roan, and forms the terminating point of the chain

of Mount Paryadres. It was believed to have re­

wired its name from the fact that Jason had landed

there. (Strab. xii. p. M8; Arrian, Peripl. p. 17;

Anonym. Peripl. p. 11; Ptol. v. 6. § 4 ; Xenoph.

A nab. vi. 2. § 1, who calls it 'Iwrovia S«t ?'j .) It

still bears the name Jasoon, though it is more com­

monly railed Cape Bona or Vona, from a town of

the same name. (Hamilton, Researches, vol. i. p.

269.) The Astoria, called a Greek acropolis by

Scvlax (p. 33), is probably no other than the Jaso-

mum. [I.. S.]

IASPIS. [Coxtbstakia.]

IASSII ('IoV<rioi), mentioned by Ptolemy as a

population of Upper Pannonia (ii. 14. § 2). Pliny's

form of the name (iii. 25) is Iari. He places them

on the Drare. [R.G. L.]

IASSUS, or IASUS {laaaoi, or 'Ioffot: Kth.

°\ojbo*v*), a town of Caria, situated on a small

inland close to the north coast of the Iasian bay,

which derives its name from Iassus. The town is

said to have been founded at an unknown period by

Argive colonists ; but as they had sustained severe

losses in a war with the native Carians, they invited

the son of Neleus, who had previously fonnded Mi­

letus, to come to their assistance. The town appears

en that occasion to have received additional settlers.

(Polyb. xvi. 12.) The town, which appears to have

•cenpied the whole of the little island, had only ten

stadia in circumference; but it nevertheless acquired

great wealth (Thucyd. viii. 28), from its fisheries and

trade in fish (Strab. xiv. p. 658). After the Si­

cilian expedition of the Athenians, during the Pelo-

ponnesian war, Iassus was attacked by the Lace­

daemonians and their allies; it was governed at the

time by Amorges, a Persian chief, who had revolted

from Darius. It was taken by the Lacedaemonians,

who captured Amorges, and delivered him up to

Tisaaphernes. The town itself was destroyed on that

occasion; but must have been rebuilt, for we after­

wards find it besieged by the last Philip of Macedonia,

who, however, was compelled by the Romans to re­

store it to Ptolemy of Egypt. (Polyb. xvii. 2; Liv.

xxxii. 33; comp. Ptol. v. 2. § 9; Plin. v. 29; Stad.

Mar. Magn. §§ 274, 275; Hierocl. p. 689.) The

mountains in the neighbourhood of Iassus furnished

a beautiful kind of marble, of a blood-red and livid

white colour, which was used by the ancients for

ornamental purposes. (Paul. Silent. Eephr. S. Soph.

ii. 213.) Near the town was a sanctuary of Hestias,

with a statue of the goddess, which, though stand­

ing in the open air, was believed never to be touched

by the rain. (Polyb. xvi. 12.) The same story is

related, by Strabo, of a temple of Artemis in the

same neighbourhood. Iassus, as a celebrated fish-

in; place, is alluded to by Athenaens (iii. p. 105,

xiiL p. 606). The place is still existing, under the

name of Asiem or Aejn Kalessi. Chandler (Tru­

nk in As. Mm. p. 226) relates that the island on

wbich the town was built is now united to the main-

coia OF IASUS IX C.U'.IA.

land by a small isthmus. Part of the city walls

still exist, and are of a regular, solid, and handsome

structure. In the side of the rock a theatre with

many rows of seats Btill remains, and several in­

scriptions and coins have been found there. (Comp.

Spon and Wheler, Voyages, vol. i. p. 361.)

A second town of the name of Iassus existed in

Cappadocia or Armenia Minor (Ptol. v. 7. § 6), on

the north-east of Zoropassus. [L. 3.]

IASTAE ('ISotcu, Ptol. vi. 12), a Scythian tribe,

whose position must be sought for in the neighbour­

hood of the river Iastns. [E. B. J.]

IASTUS ("Iootoj), a river which, according to

Ptolemy (vi. 12), was, like the Polytimctus (Kohik),

an affluent of the Caspian basin, and should in fact

be considered as such in the sense given to a denomi­

nation which at that time embraced a vast and com •

plicated hydraulic system. [Jaxartes.] Von

Humboldt (^4»»e Cenlrate, vol. ii. p. 263) has iden­

tified it with the Kizil-Deria, the dry bed of which

may be traced on the barren wastes of Kizil Kvmn

in W. Turkistan. It is no unusual circumstance in

the sandy steppes of N. Asia for rivers to change

their course, or even entirely to disappear. Thus

the Kizii'Deria, which was known to geographers

till the commencement of this century, no longer

exists. (Comp. Levohine, Hordes et Steppes da

Kirghiz Kazaks, p. 456.) [E. B. J.]

IASTUS, a river mentioned by Ptolemy (vi. 14.

§2) as falling into the Caspian between the Jaik

and the Oxus. It is only safe to call it one of the

numerous rivers of Independent Tartary. [R. G. L.l

IASUS. [Okum.]

IATII ('Ianoi, Ptol. vi. 12. § 4), a people in the

northern part of Sogdiana. They are also mentioned

by Pliny (vi. 16. s. 18); but nothing certain is known

of their real position. [V.]

IATINUM ('Idrii'oi'), according to Ptolemy (ii.

8. § 15) the city of the Meldi, a [eople of Gallia

Luplunensis. It is supposed to be the same place

as tbe Fixtuinum of the Table [Fixtuinum], and

to be represented by the town of Meaux on the

Marne. Walckenaer, who trusts more to the accu­

racy of the distances in the Table than we safely

can do, says that the place Fixtuinum has not in

the Table the usual mark which designates a capital

town, and that the measures do not carry the posi­

tion of Fixtuinum as far as Meaux, but only as fur

as Monibout. He conjectures that the word Fix­

tuinum may be a corruption of Fines Iatinorum, and

accordingly must be a place on the boundary of the

little community of the Meldi. This conjecture

might be good, if the name of the people was Iatini,

and not Meldi. [G. L.]

JATRIPPA. [Latiiriita.]

IATRA or IATRUM ('IotooV), a town in Moesia,

situated at the point where the river Iatrus or Iautrus

empties itself into the Danube, a few miles to the

east of Ad Novas. (Procop. de Aed. iv. 7 ; Theo-

phylact. vii. 2 ; Ifotit. Imp. 29, where it is errone­

ously called Latra ; Geogr. Rav.. iv. 7, where, as in

tbe Peut. Tab., it bears the name Laton.) [L. S.]

IATRUS (in the Pent Tab. Iantkus), a river

traversing the central part of Moesia. It has its

sources in Mount Haemus, and, having in its course

to the north received the waters of several tributaries,

falls into the Danube close by the town of latra.

(Plin. iii. 29, where the common reading is Ieterus;

Jornand. Get. 18; Geogr. Rav. iv. 7.) It is probably

the some as tbe Athrys ("Afyt/s) mentioned by He­

rodotus (iv.4D). Its modern name is /antra. [L.S.1

u 3

