MAGNA GRAECIA. 219 MAGNA GRAECIA.

time of the Persian invasion. It is still more remark­

able, that even when the Athenians and Lacedaemo­

nians sent an embassy to Sicily to invoke the assist­

ance of Gelon, we do not hear of any similar appli­

cation to the Greek cities in Southern Italy.

While the Achaean cities were thus declining from

their former prosperity, Rhegium, the name of which

is scarcely mentioned in history at an earlier period,

was raised to a position of considerable power and

importance under the rule of the despot Anaxilas

(i>.c- 496—476), who united under his authority

the city of Messana also, on the opposite side of the

straits, and thus became involved in connection with

the polities of Sicily, which had been hitherto very

distinct from those of Magna Graecia. Micythus, the

successor of Anaxilas in the government of Rhegium,

was remarkable as the founder of the colony of

Pyxus (afterwards called Buxentnm), on the Tyr-

rlienian sea, in B. c 471. (Diod. xi. 59.) This was

the latest of the Greek settlements in that quarter.

About the same time (B.C.473) we find mention

of a disastrous defeat, which must, for a time, have

given a severe check to the rising power of the

Tarentines. That people appear to have taken little

part in the disputes or contests of their Achaean

ctyhbonrs ; but after their ineffectual attempt to op-

pe* the founding of Metapontum [Metapontijm],

would seem to have been principally engaged in

extending their commerce, and in wars with the

neighbouring barbarians. Here they found, among

the lapygians or Messapians, a more formidable

opposition than was encountered by the other Greek

cities. After repeated contests, in many of which

they had come off victorious and reduced many of

the Iapygian towns, the Tarentines were defeated

in a preat battle by the lapygians, with such heavy

loss that Herodotus tells us it was the greatest

slaughter of Greek citizens that had happened

within his knowledge. Three thousand Rhegian

auxiliaries, who had been sent to the support of the

Tarentines. perished on the same occasion. (Herod.

vi. 170; Diod. xi. 52.)

The period between the Persian and Peloponnesian

Wars witnessed the establishment of the two latest

of the Greek colonies in Southern Italy—Thi'RII

and Heraclea. Both of these were, however, but

a kind of renewal of previously existing settlements.

Tburii was founded in B. c. 443, by a body of

colonists, of whom the Athenians seem to have taken

the lead, but which was composed, in great part, of

settlers from other states of Greece [Tmrim] ; with

whom were united the remaining citizens of Syharis,

and the new colony was established within two miles

of the site of that city. The new settlement rose

rapidly to prosperity, but was soon engaged in war

with the Tarentines for the possession of the vacant

district of Siris; until these hostilities were at

length terminated by a compromise, according to

which the two rival cities joined in establishing a

new colony, three miles from the site of the ancient

Siris, to which they gave the name of Heraclea,

B. c 432. (Strab. vi. p. 264; Diod. xii. 23, 36.)

But though thus founded by common consent, the

Tarentines seem to have had much the largest share

in its establishment, and Heraclea was always con­

sidered as a colony of Tarcntnm.

Daring the Peloponnesian War the cities of Magna

Graecia seem to have studiously kept aloof from the

c ntest. Even when the Athenian expedition to

Sicily (b. c. 415) involved the whole of the Greek

cities in that island in the war, those on the coasts of

Italy still endeavoured to preserve their neutrality,

and refused to admit the Athenian forces within thi ir

walls, though they did not offer any obstruction to

their progress. (Thuc. vi. 44; Diod. xiii. 3.) At

a later period, however, the Thurians (among whom

there was naturally an Athenian party) and the

Metapontines were induced to enter into a regular

alliance with Athens, and supplied a small force to

their assistance. (Thuc vii. 33, 35; Diod. xiii,

11.)

At this period the cities of Magna Graecia seem

to have been still in a prosperous and flourishing

condition; but it was not long after that they began

to feel the combined operation of two causes which

mainly contributed to their decline. The first

danger which threatened them wns from the south,

where Dionysius, tyrant of Syracuse, after having

established his power over the greater part of Sicily,

began to seek to extend it in Italy also. Hitherto

the cities of Italy had kept aloof in great measure

from the revolutions and wars of the neighbouring

island: Rhegium and Locii alone seem to have

maintained closer relations with the Sicilian Greeks.

The former, from its Chalcidic origin, was naturally

friendly to the colonies of the same race in Sicily;

and when Dionysius turned his arms against the

Chalcidic cities, Naxos, Catana, and Leontini, he at

once brought on himself the enmity of the Rhegians.

Hence, when he soon after applied to conclude a

matrimonial alliance with them, the proposal was

indignantly rejected. The Locrians, on the other

hand, readily accepted his offer, and thus secured

the powerful assistance of the despot in his subse­

quent wars. (Diod. xiv. 44, 107.) From this time

his efforts were mainly directed to the humiliation

of Rhegium and the aggrandisement of the Locrians.

His designs in this quarter soon excited so much

alarm, that, in n. c. 393, the Italian Greeks were

induced to conclude a general league for their

mutual protection against the arms of Dionysius on

the one side, as well as those of the Lucanians on

the other. (Id. 91.) But the result was far from

successful. The combined forces of the confede­

rates were defeated by Dionysius in a great battle

at the river Helleporus or Helorus, near Caulonia,

n. c. 389; and this blow was followed by the cap­

ture of Caulonia itself, as well as Hipponium, both

of which places were reduced toastate of dependence

on Locri. Not long after, the powerful city of

Rhegium was compelled to surrender, after a siege

of nearly eleven months, B.C. 387. (Diod. xiv.

103—108, 111.)

While the more southerly cities of Magna Graecia

were suffering thus severely from the attacks of

Dionysius, those on the northern frontier were

menaced by a still more formidable danger. The

Lucanians, a Sabellian race or branch of the Samnite

stock, who had pressed forward into the territory of

the Oenotrians, and had gradually expelled or re­

duced to subjection the tribes of that people who

inhabited the mountain districts of the interior,

next turned their arms against the Greek cities on

the coast. Posidonia, the most northerly of these

settlements, was the first which fell under their

yoke (Strab. vi. p. 254); and though we cannot fix

with accuracy the date of its conquest, it is probable

that this took place some time before we find them

engaged in wars with the cities on the Tarentino

gulf. If, indeed, we can trust to the uncertain

chronology of some of these events, they would seem

to have been already engaged in hostilities with the

