XEMEXTURI. 417 NEMETOCENNA.

Kthmtis, it was not a town. The sacred grove

contained only the temple, theatre, stadium, and

otlirr monuments. There was a village in the

neighbourhood called Bembixa (B«ft£"'<0. of which,

however, the exact site is unknown. (Strab. viii.

p. .177; Steph. B. *. i>.) The haunts of the Ne-

mean lion are said to have been near Bombina.

(Theocr. xxv. 202.)

The chief building in the sacred grove was the

temple of Zens Nemeius, the patron god of the place.

When visited by Pausanias the roof hud fallen, and

the statue no longer remained (ii. 15. § 2). Three

columns of the temple are still standing, amidst a

va^t heap of ruins. "Two of these columns be­

longed to the pronaos, and were placed as usual be­

tween antae; they are 4 feet 7 inches in diameter

at the base, and still support their architrave. The

third column, which belonged to the outer range, is

5 feet 3 inches in diameter at the base, and about

34 feet high, including a capital of 2 feet. Its dis­

tance from the corresponding column of the pronaos

is 18 feet. The total height of the three members

of the entablature was 8 feet 2 inches. The general

intercolnmination of the peristyle was 7 feet; at the

angles, 5 feet 10 inches. From the front of the

pronaos to the extremity of the cell within, the

length was 95 feet: the breadth of the cell within,

31 feet; the thickness of the walls, 3 feet. The

temple was a hexastyle, of about 65 feet in breadth

on the upper step of the stylobate, which consisted

of three steps: the number of columns on the sides,

and consequently the length of the temple, I conld

not ascertain." (Leake.) Though of the Doric

order, tbe columns are as slender as some of the

specimens of the Ionic, and are so different from the

elder Doric examples, that we ought probably to

ascribe to the temple a date subsequent to the Per­

sian wars.

Among the other monuments in the sacred grove

were the tombs of Opheltes, and of his father Ly-

cur~ns. The former was surrounded with a stone

enclosure, and contained certain altars; the latter

wxi a mound of earth. (Pans. ii. 15. § 3.) Pau­

sanias also mentions a fountain called Adrasteia.

TV latter is. doubtless, the source of water near the

Turkish fountain, which is now without water. At

the foot of tbe mountain, to the left of this spot, are

the remains of the stadium. Between the stadium

aad the temple of Zeus, on the left of the path, are

srane Hellenic foundations, and two fragments of

Doric columns. Near the temple are the ruins of a

avail church, which contains some Doric fragments.

(Leake, Morea. vol. iii. p. 327, seq.j Curtius, Pe-

hp^vusos, vol. ii. p. 505. seq.)

For an account of the Nemean festival, see Diet.

"f Anliq. t. V.

XEMEXTURI, one of the several Alpine peoples

enumerated by Pliny (iii. c. 20) among the names

inwribed on the Trophy of the Alps. Their position

is unknown. [G. L.J

SE'MESA, a river of Gallia mentioned by An­

emias (Motella. v. 353), is the Nims, which joins

the Pronaea (Prum). The united streams flow

into tbe Sura (Sour), and the Sura into the Mo-

sefla. [G. L.]

XKMETACLM or NEMETOCENNA (Arras),

the chief town of the Atrebates, a Belgic people.

Cawar (£. G.viii. 46) spent a winter at Nemetocenna

at tlie c!o«e of hia Gallic campaigns. In the inscrip-

t»wi «f Tongrrn there is a route from Castellum

(Guar/) to Nemetacum, which is the same place as

yol. n.

Nemetocenna. The distance from Cassel through

BMune to Arras is 43 M. P. The distance ac­

cording to the Antonine Itin. from Cassel through

Minariacnm [Minariacum] is 55 M. P. There is

also a route from Taruenna (Thirouenne) of 33

M. P. to Nemetacum. There is no place where

these roads can meet except Arras. In the Greek

texts of Ptolemy (ii. 9. § 7) the capital of the

Atrebates is Origiacum ('Opryi'aitoi'); but it is

said that the Palatine MS. has Metaeon, and all the

early editions of Ptolemy have Metacum. It seems

possible, then, that Ptolemy's Metacum represents

Nemetacum. But Ptolemy incorrectly places the

Atrebates on the Seine; he also places part of their

territory on tbe sea-coast, which may be true. Ori­

giacum is supposed to be Orchies, between Tournai

and Douai. The town Nemetacum afterwards took

the name of the people Atrebates or Atrebatii, and

the name was finally corrupted into Arras. [Atre­

bates.]

The traces of the Roman roads from Arras to

Therouenne and to Cambrai are said to exist. It is

also said that some remains of a temple of Jupiter

have been discovered at Arras, on the Place da

Cloilre; and that there was a temple of Isis on the

site of the Hotel-Dieu. (D'Anville, Notice, <f-c.,

Walckenaer, Geog. <fc. vol. i. p. 431.) [G. L ]

NEMETATAE. [Gallaecia, VoL I. p. 933,a.]

NEME'TES (N»^7)Toi). This name first appears

in Caesar (B. G. i. 51), who speaks of the Ncmetes

as one of the Germanic tribes in the army of Ario-

vistns. In another passage (B. G. vi. 25) he de­

scribes the Hercynia Silva as commencing on the

west at the borders of the Helvetii, the Nemetes,

and the Rauraci; and as he does not mention the

Nemetes as one of the nations on the left bank of

the Rhine (B. G. iv. 10), we may probably infer

that in his time they were on the cast or German

side of the Rhine. The Vangiones and Nemetes

were afterwards transplanted to the west .side of the

Rhine. (Tac. Germ. c. 28.) Ptolemy makes No-,

viomagus (Speyer) the capital of the Nemetes, but

be incorrectly places them north of the Vangiones.

whose capital was Borbetomagus ( Worms). Pliny

(iv. 17) mentions the Nemetes, Tribocci. and Van­

giones in this order; but Tacitus mentions them

just in the inverse order, Vangiones, .Tribocci and

Nemetes. From none of these writers could we

determine the relative positions of these peoples;

but the fact that Noviomagns (NotoTicryoi) is men­

tioned by Ptolemy as the chief town of the Nemetes,

and that Noviomagns is proved to be Speyer by the

Itineraries along the west bank of the Rhine, deter­

mine the position of the Nemetes.

In Ammianus Marccllinus (XT. 11) and the

Not. Imp., Noviomagns appears under the name

of the people Nemetes or Nemetae. Ammianus

calls it a municipium, by which he probably means

a Roman town. In the Notitia of the Gallic pro­

vinces, Civitas Nemetum belongs to Germania Prima.

In some later writings the expression occurs " civitas

Nemetum id est Spira." The name of Speyer is

from the Speycrbach, which flows into the Rhine at

Speyer. (D'Anville. Notice, rye.; Walckenaer, Geog.

dv. vol. ii. p. 277.) [G. L.]

NEMETOBHI'GA (N»M«-oB>-ya), a town of the

Tibnri in Astoria, on the road from Bracara to As-

turica, now Mtndoya, in the district of Tribis.

(Ptol. ii. 6. § 37; Itin. Ant. p. 428; Ukert, vol. ii.

pt. 1. p. 442.) [T. H. D.]

NEMETOCENNA [Nemetacum.]

E E

