so I EUTUriAE. RUSTICIANA.

same place as the Thermae of the Coast-ctactiber

(Stadiasm. § 114, ed. Mtiller), near the ruins of

Leptis Parva. [E. B. J.]

RUSTICIA'NA ('Pouo-TiVafa, Ptol ii. 5. § 7), a

city of the Vettmi' S in Lusitania, on the right bank

of the Tagus. Variously identified with Corckvela

and Galuteo. (It. Ant. i\ 433.) [T. H. I).]

RUSUCUTUtlUM, RUSSUCU'RRIUM (Plin. v.

1; it. Ant.; 'PovavoKKipat, Ptol, IT, 2. § 8). a

town of Mauretania, which Claudius made a muni-

cipittro (I'lin. I. <\), but which was afterwards a

colonia (Itin. Ant.). Barth ( Wandenmgeny p. 60)

lias identified it with the landing-place Ih'Uys in Al­

geria, where there is good anchorage, [H. B. J.]

KUTK'XI {'PovTijfOt). and 'Puvravo't in Ptolemy

(ii. 7. § 21), who places them in (lallia Aipiitania.

Pliny (it. 19) says that the Ruteni border on the

Narbonensis Provincia; and Strabo (it. p. 191)

plaore them and the Gabaleis or Gabali next to the

Narbonensis. Their country was the old province of

Romnjve, which extended from the Cvcmnes, its

eastern boundary,about 90 miles in a western direc­

tion. The chief town was Rhode*. The modern

department of Aveyron comprehends a large part of

the Rottergue, There were silver mines in the

country of the Ruteni and their neighbours the

(labali [Gauaij], and the flax of this country was

good.

The Arverni and Ruteni were defeated by Q.

Fab ins Maximus, n. c. 121, but their country was

not reduced to the form of a Roman province (Caes.

Ii. G, i. 4;"i). In Caesar's time part of the Ruteni

were included in the Provincia under the name of

Ruteni Provinciates (B. G. vii, 5, 7). Vercingetorui

in B.C. 52 sent Luclerius of the Cadurci into the

country of the Ruteni to bring them over to the

Gallic confederation, which he did. Caesar, in order

to protect the Provincia <>n this side, placed tnxips in

the country of the Ruteni Provinciates, and among

the Volcae Arecomici and Tolosatea. Pliny, who

enumerates the Rateni among the people of Aqui-

tania, alto mentions Ruteni in the Narbonensis

(iii. 4). but he means tlie town Segodunum [Sego-

ih'Ncm]. The Ruteni Provinciates of course were

nearer to tlie Tee tosa ires than the other liuteni, and

we may perhaps place them in that part of tlie

departments of Aveyron and Turn which is south

of theTarnis (Turn). It may be conjectured that

part of the liuteni were added to the Provincia,either

after the defeat of the Ruteni by Maxunus, or after

the conquest of Tolosa by Caepio (b.c. 106.) [G.L.]

RUTICLEI. [Ruon.]

KUTUBA (Koj<t), a river of Liguria, which rises

in the Maritime Alps, near the Col (If Tewfe,and flow s

into the sea at Vintimiglia (Albium Inteinelium).

Its name is found in Pliny (iii. 5. s. 7), who places

it apparently to the W. of Albium Intemeliuin,

whereas it really flows on the E. side of that town;

Luean also notices it among the streams which Bow

from the Apennines (ii. 422). and gives it the

epithet of " cavus," from its flowing through a deep

bed or ravine. From the mention of the Tiber just

after, some writers have supposed that he most

mean another river of the name; but there is no

reason to expect such strict geographical order from

a poet, and tin- mention of the Marra a few lines

lower down sufficiently shows that none such was

intended. Vibins Sequester (p. 17) who makes the

Rutuba fall into the Tiber, has obviously misunder­

stood the passage of Luvan. [E. II. It.]

RUTUBIS (IVIyb. ap. riin.v. 1; 'Pewito, Ptol.

IT. 5. § I), a port of!

identified with the low nrky point of Jfweav

The town situated upon this wis the last yaatmei

by the Portuguese in Morocco, and wis aiaoAsai

b'v them in 1769. (Jackson, Morocco, p. 104;

Journ. of Geogr. Soc. vol. vi. p. 306.) [F- E-1]

RU'TULI ('PotrrovKot), a people of aacirnt Itsh.

who, according to a tradition generally mvindil

later times, were settled at a Terr early ytrwA • ft-

part of Latium, adjoining the sea-coast, ',: - .' i

city being Ardea. The promir»ent part that eta

and their king Turnns bear in the legendary

of Aeneas and the Trojan settlement. csaacalH

the form in which this ha* Seen worked if ■

Virgil, has given great celebrity to tbea ssa%|

but they appear to have been, in fact,erea acDsaUj

to these very traditions, a small and cmmsWH

people. Their king Turnus himself is re?c1Bl4

as dependent on Latinus ; and it is certasi Ill4

the historical period Ardea was one of tb« cSSBa

the Latin League (I)ionys. t. 61), whilf tbe ■*J

the Kutuli had become merged in tliat of tbetefl

people. Not long before this indeed Livy repn^H

the Kutuli as a still existing people, and the '■J

TarOjuinius Superbus as directed again>t tbea*

he proceeded to attack Ardea, jnst before hm

sion. (Lit. i. 56. 07.) According to this

Ardea was not taken, but we learn from mock

authority (the treaty between Koine and

preserved by Poly bios, iii. 22) that it ■•^4

under the power of the Humans l-eice thedsfl

the monarchy, and it is possible that the aaj^J

of the Rutuli as an independent people nut

this period. The only other mention of the

which, can be called historical is that their

found in the list given by Cato (op. Pi

p. 629) of the cities tliat teak pan in the

lion of the celebrated temple of Diaeai at

list in all probability founded upon some

cord ; and it is remarkable that they here

distinct from the Ardea tes. There wire

scure traditions in antiquity that repra*nl

as founded by a colony from Arpos [AKi*tu)j

these are regarded by Niebuhr as tex*lr

that the Rutuli were a Pelasgic race. ( NhtSv J

p. 44, vol. ii. p. 21.) S» hwegW. - n the -xha ■

considers them as connected with the K:n*«MSj(

probably a relic of the jerind when that

extended their dominion throughout

Campania. This theory finds son* supf«et

name of Turnus, w hich may probably be cast

with Tyrrhenus, as well as in tlie unieo »faisM

legend represents as subsisting between tm

the Etruscan king Mezentius. (Sehwejsav

Gesck. vol. i. pp. 330, 331.) But tl»e wbAlj

is so mixed up with fable and poetical iaafj

that it is imjhJSiible to feel conSdeuce In saj

conjectures. [E.

RUTU'NIUM {it Ant. p. 469).

town of theCornavii in the YV. part of

inana. Camden (p. 651) identifies it with

Shropshire, Horslev (p.4IS) with B'em. [Xfl

liUTL'PIAE ('Powcidrioi. WxA. iLS.f f

7ab. Peut and Xot. Imp. Rutupae: ia tf

Ant. Kitu|*ae, also Portus Rutupensis as4

Ritupius: Adj. Kutupinut, Luc. Pkarx. \i C|

IT, 141). a town of the Cautii on the E.

Britannia Prima, now Richborovgk in K*

tupiae and Portus Butupensis wen? prur^ryeflfl

the former Iwing tlie city, the

some little distance. The

