138 LATIUM. LATIUM.

to the notion that Alb* was in another sense the me­

tropolis of Latium, and that all, or at any rate the

greater part, of the cities of Latium were merely co­

lonies of Alba. So far was this idea carried, that we

find expressly enumerated in the list nf such colonies

places like Ardea, Tuscnlam, and Pracneste, which,

according to other traditions generally received, were

more ancient than Alba itself. (Liv. i. 52; Dionys.

iii 34; Diod. vii. ap. Eustb.Arm. p. 185; Vict Orig.

Grnl. Rom. IT.) [Alba Loxoa.]

l'liny has, however, preserved to ns a statement of

a very different stamp, according to which there

were thirty towns or communities, which he terms

the "popoli Albenses," that were accustomed to

share in the sacrifices on the Alban Mount Many

of these names are now obscure or unknown, several

others appear to have been always inconsiderable

places, while a few only subsequently figure among

the well-known cities of Latium. It is therefore

highly probable that we have here nn authentic

record, preserved from ancient times, of a league

which actually subsisted at a very early period,

before Alba became the head of the more important

and better known confederacy of the Latins in

general. Of the towns thus enumerated, those

whose situation can be determined with any cer­

tainty were all (with the remarkable exception of

Fidenae) situated in the immediate neighbourhood

of the Alban Hills; and thus appear to have been

grouped around Alba as their natural centre. Among

them we find Bola, Pedum, Toleria, and Vitellia on

th<- N. of the Alban Hills, and Corioli, Longula,

and Pollusca on the S. of the same group. On the

other band, the more powerful cities of Aricia, Lanu-

viutn, and Tuscnlum, though so much nearer to

Alba, arc not included in this list. But there is a

remarkable statement of Cato (np. Priscian, iv. p.

629), in which he speaks of the celebrated temple

of Diana at Aricia, as founded in common by the

people of Tuscnlum, Aricia, Lanuvium, Laurentnm,

Cora, Tibur, Pomctia, Ardea, and the Kutuli, that

seems to point to the existence of a separate, and, as

it were, counter league, subsisting at the same time

with that of which Alba was the head. All these

minor unions would seem, however, to have ultimately

been merged in the general confederacy of the La­

tins, of which, according to the tradition universally

adapted by Koman writers, Alba was the acknow­

ledged head.

Another people whoee name appears in all the

earliest historical traditions nf Latium, but who had

become completely merged in the general body of

the Latin nation, before we arrive at the historical

period, was that of the Rutuli. Their capital was

Ardea, a city to which a Greek or Argive origin was

ascribed [Akdba]; if any value can be attached to

such traditions, they may be regarded as painting to

a Pelasgic origin of,the Rutuli; and Niebuhr ex- i

plains the traditionary greatness of Ardea by sup­

posing it to hare been the chief city of maritime

Latium, while it was stilt in the hands of the IV-

hugians. (Niebuhr, vol. i. p. 44, vol. ii. p. 21.)

One of the most difficult questions connected with

the early history of I^itium is the meaning and

origin of the term "Prisci Latini," which we find

applied by many Roman writers to the cities of the

Latin League, and which occurs in a formula given

by Livy that has every appearance of being very

ancient. (Liv. i. 32.) It may safely be assumed

that the term means "Old Latins," and Kiebuhrs I

idea Uiat Priaci was itself a national appellation'

has been generally rejected as untenable. Bat it

is difficult to believe that a people could ever

have called themselves '' the old Latins:" and yet

it seems certain that the name was so used, both

from ita occurrence in the formula just referred w

(which was in all probability borrowed from tb*

old law books of the Fetiales), and from toe

circumstance that we find the name almost solely

in connection with the wars of Ancua Msrviue and

Tarquinius Prisons (Liv. i. 32, 33, 38); and it

never occurs at a later period. Hence it seems

impossible to suppose that it was used as a terra of

distinction for the Latins properly so called, or

inhabitants of Latium Antiquum, as contradis­

tinguished from the Aequians, YoUcians, and

other nations subsequently included in Latiuin:

a supposition adopted by several modern writers.

On the other hand the name does not occur in the

Koman history, prior to the destruction of Alba,

and perhaps the most plausible conjecture is thai

the name was ono assumed by a league or con­

federacy of the Latin cities, established after the

full of Alba, but who thus asserted their chum to

represent the original and ancient Latin peopie.

It must be admitted that this explanation seems

wholly at variance with the statement that the

Prisci Latini were the colonies of Alba, which is

found both in Livy and Dionyaios (Liv. i. 3; Dio­

nys. i. 45), but this probably meant to convey

nothing more than the notion already noticed, tliai

all the cities of Lntium were founded by snch c*ti»-

nies. Livy, at least, seems certainly to regard tb*

*' Prisci Latini" as equivalent to the wbole Letxw  
nation, and not as a part contradistinguished from

the rest. (Liv. i. 38.)

2. Relations of the Latins mih Rome.—As the

first historical appearance of the I-atins is that of av

confederation of different cities, of which Alba was

the head, so the fall and destruction of Alba may be

regarded as the first event in their annals which can

be termed historical. The circumstances transmitted

to us in connection with this are undoubtedly poetical

fictions; but the main fact of the destruction p4 the

city and downfal of its power is well rstaMieheil.

This event must have been followed by a complete

derangement in the previously existing relation*.

Rome appears to have speedily put forth a claim 1st

the supremacy which Alba hail previously exeiusesl

(Dionys. iii. 34); but it is evident that this was not

acknowledged by the other cities of Latium : and

the Prisci Latini, whose name appears in hisierr

only during tl Is period, probably firmed a separate

league of their own. It was not long, however, be­

fore the Romans succeeded in establishing their supe­

riority: and the statement of the Roman annals, that

the Latin league was renewed under Tarqninme Sej-

perbus, and the supremacy of that monarch acknow­

ledged by all the other cities that composed it oV ivve

a strong confirmation from the more authentic *.**£>-

mony of the treaty between Rome and Carth-are,

preserved to us by Polybius (iii. 22). In this ini-

jiortant document, which dates from the year invra»n»-

ately following the ex pulsion of the kini.** (n-t\ Vtti.

Home appears ns stipulating on behalf nf the pe> ;ir

of Ardea, Antium, Laiirrntum, C'irrrii, Tarrs»-aa,

anil the other subject (or dependent) cities of Latonav

and even making conditions in regard to the wbvJr

l-atin territory, as if it was subject to its rain

But the state of things which appears to have dot*

at this time fully established, was broken up carat

after ; whether in consequence of the revelotioB at

