1003 SIXOIUA.

source of revenue, which maintained the city in a

tolerable state of prosperity. It possessed ex­

tensive suburbs, and numerous villas in its vicinity

(Strab. I. c.; Plin. vi. 2). From Pliny's letter's

(x. 91), it appears that the Sinopians suffered some

inconvenience from the want of a good supply of

water, which Pliny endeavoured to remedy by a

grant from the emperor Trajan to build an aqueduct

conveying water from 21 distance of 1G miles. In

the time of Arrian and Marcian, Sinope still con­

tinued te he a flourishing town. In the middle ages

it belonged to the empire of Trehizond, and fell into

the hands of the l urks in A. D. 1470, in the reign

of Mohammed II. Sinope is also remarkable as the

birthplace of several men of eminence, inch as

Diogenes the Cynic, Baton, the historian of Persia,

and Dipbiliuifthe comic poet.

Near Sinope was a small island, called Scopelua,

around which large vessels were obliged to sail, be­

fore they could enter the harbour; but small craft

might pass between it and the land, by which means

a circuit of 40 stadia was avoided (Marcian, p. 72,

Ac.) The celebrated Sinopian cinnabar (3iwwurifr

[a'iKtos. Sirui^ls or XivwirtKrj *yt/) was not a product

of the district of Sinope, but was designated by this

name only because it formed one of the chief articles

of trade at Sinope. (Groskurd on >Strabo, vol. ii.

p. 407, foil.) The imperial coins of Sinope that are

known, extend from Augustus to Gallienns. (Sestini,

Num. Yet. p. 63; Kasehe, Leu: Num. iv. 2. p. 1103,

foil.)

Sinope, now called Stvab, is still a town of some

importance, but it contains only few remains of its

former magnificence. The wall across the isthmus

has been built up with fragments of ancient archi­

tecture, such as columns, architraves, &c, and the

same is found in several other parts of the modern

town; but no distinct ruins of its temples, porticoes,

or even of the great aqueduct, are to be seen. (Ha­

milton. Researches, toL i. p. 306, &c.) [L S.]

SINO'KIA (Siropi'a, Strab. xii. p. 555), a town

on the frontier of Armenia Major, a circumstance

which gave rise to a pun of the historian Theophancs

who wrote the name 2w6pta. The place is no

doubt the same as the one called Sinorega by Appian

(Mithrid. 101), by Ammianus Marcellinus (xvii. 7)

Synhorium, by Ptolemy (v. 7. § 2) Sinibra or Sinera,

and in the Antonine Itinerary (p. 208) Sinervas.

The pun upon the name made by Theoplmnes seems

to show that the form Sinoria, which Strabo gives, is

the correct one. The town was a fortress built by

Mitlnidates on the frontier between Greater and

Lesser Armenia; but assuming that all the different

names mentioned above are only varieties or corrup­

tions of one, it is not easy to fix the exact site of

the town, for Ptolemy and the Antonine Itinerary

place it to the south-west of Satala. on the road

from this town to Melitene, and on the Euphrates,

while the Table, calling it Sinara, places it 79 miles

to the north-east of Satala, on the frontiers of Pontus;

but there can be no doubt that the Sinara of the

Table is altogether a different place from Sinoria,

and the site of tiic latter place must be sought on

the b:mks of the Euphrates between Satala and

Melitene, whence some identify it with Murad Chai

and others with Sent Bdi [LSI

SINOTIUM. [Synodium.]

SINSII (2iWi0f, Ptol. iii. 8. § 5), a people in the

S. ofDacia. [ T. H. I) ]

SIN ri (Thuc.ii. 98; Steph.B. «.«.; Liv. xlii.51),

a Thracian tribe who occupied the district lying

between tbe ridge ca

W. bank of tbe Stry

course of that river,

SlNTICE (StfTlKT),

Macedonia was divid

Koman conquest, Sint

in the First Macedoni

capital (Liv. xlv. 29]

Hkkaci.eia, Paroe<

SINTIES. [Lk.m

SINUESSA (2i«

voveaorjvos, Sinuessi

Latium, in the more

situated on the Tyrrl

the mouth of the Vd

the Via Appia, and 1

great highroad touch

p. 233.) It is cerU

cient city: indeed tb

of an Italian town on

of the Roman colony

tion an obscure trad

been a Greek city (

Sinope; but little v

statement. (Liv. x

certain that if it e1

appeared, and the si

of the Ausonian city

determined to establi

nies of Mintumae ai

sea. (Liv. x. 21.)

derived, according tc

the spacious gulf (

Gaeta. (Strab. v. |

blishing these colonic

securing the neighb

from the ravages of

repeatedly overrun t

reason the plebeians

names, and there waj

ing out the colony,

the following year,

Pat. i. 14.) Sinuesj

into a place of im[

severely ravaged by

cavalry carried thei

gates of the town,

quently endeavoured,

other "coloniae mar

tion from furnishing

overruled, while ther

in Italy. (Id. xxvii

191) they again atti

cess, to procure a sin

service. (Id. xxxvi.

Way doubtless con

perity of Sinuessa; I

quently incidentally

learn that Caes-ar h

way from Brundusiu

ad Att. is. 15, 16, J

noticed also by Hon

sium, as the place 1

Varius and Virgil,

of its territory, and

ridge of the Mons Ma'

must also have tendt

Sinuessa, but we lies

Empire. It receive"

apparently under tl

237), but did not rel

