582 PETRA. PETAVONIUM.

PETAVO'NICM (Jltrawviav, Ptol. ii. G. § 35),

a town of the Supcr:itii in HispanU Tarracooensis,

SE. of Asturica. {/tin. Ant. p. 423.) [T.H.D.]

PETEXIA or PETI'LIA (rieTTjAfa: Eth. T\*tt).

Xivos, Pctelinus: Strongoli), an ancient city of

Brnttium, situated about 1*2 miles N. of Crotona,

and 3 miles from the E. coast of the peninsula.

According to the Greek traditions it was a very

ancient city, founded by Philoctetes after the Trojan

War. (Strab. vi. p. 254; Virg. Aen. iii. 401; Serv.

ml h>c.) This legend probably indicates that it was

really a town of the Chones, an Oenotrian tribe; aa

the foundation ofChone. in the same neighbourhood,

was also ascribed to Philoctetes. It was only a

small place (Virg. I- c), hut in a strong situation.

We have DO account of its receiving a Greek colony,

nor is its name ever mentioned among the Greek

cities of this part of Italy; but, like so many of the

Oenotrian towns, became to a great extent Hel-

lenised or imbued with Greek culture and manners.

It was undoubtedly for a long time subject to

Crotona, and comprised within the territory of that

city; and probably fur this reason, its name is never

mentioned during the early history of Magna

Graecia. But after the irruption of the Lucanians,

it fell into the hands of that people, by whom it was

strongly fortified, and became one of their most

important strongholds. (Strab. I. c.) It is ap­

parently on this account, that Strabo calls it " the

metropolis of the Lucani.ms," though it certainly

was not included in Lncania as the term was

understood in his day. Petelia first became con­

spicuous in history during the Second Punic War,

when its citizens remained faithful to the Roman

alliance, notwithstanding the general defection of the

Biutti.ins around them, B. C 216. They were in

consequence besieged by the Brut thins as well as by

a Carthaginian force under Himilco: but though

abandoned to their fate by the Roman senate, to

whom they had in vain sued for assistance, they

made ■ desperate resistance; and it was not till after

a siege of several months, in which they had suf­

fered the utmost extremities of famine, that they

were at length compelled to surrender. (Lie, xxiii.

2*1. 30; Polyb, vii. lj Appian, Annib. 29; Krontin.

Strat. iv. 5. § 18 ; Val Max. vi. 6, ext. § 2; SiJ.

It.il. xii. 431.) The few inhabitants who escaped,

were after the close of the war restored by the

Romans to their native town (Appian, /. c), and

were doubtless treated with especial favour; so that

Petelia rose again to a prosperous condition, and in

the days of Strabo was one of the few cities of

Bruttram that was still tolerably flourishing and

popnlous, (Strab. vi. p. 254.) We learn from

inscriptions that it still continued to he a flourishing

municipal town under the Roman Empire (OrelI.

Inscr. 137, 3G78, 3939 ; Moinmsen, Inscr. R. A*,

pp. .*>, 6): it is mentioned by alt the geogra­

phers and its name is still found in the Tabula,

which places it on the road from Thurii to Crotona.

(Mel. ii. 4. § 8; Plin. iii. 10. s. 15; Ptol. iii. 1.

§ 75; Tab. Pent.) But we are unable to trace its

history further: its identification with StrongoH is,

however, satisfactorily made out by the inscriptions

which have been found in the latter city. Strongoli

is an episcopal see, with about 7000 inhabitants: its

situation on u lofty and rugged hill, commanding the

plain of the Nieto (Xeaethus), corresponds with

the accounts of Petelia, which is represented as

occupying a position of great natural strength.

Then-are no ruins of the ancient city, hut numerous

minor objects of antiquity have been iossd flS As

Spot, besides the inscriptions above referred tu,

The existence of a second town of the sneet

Petelia in Lucania, which has been admttsi Vi

several writers, rests mainly oo the nunc* rf

Strabo where he calls Petelia the rortrifis si

Lucania; but he is certainly there speakmr. •**' tts

well-known city of the name, which was nod*nS>«Wf

in Brnttium. The inscriptions published by AnSana,

to prove that there was a town of thin oaroe lb til

mountains near Yelia, are in all probability •pentas

(Mommsen, /. R. X. App. p. 2), tboorh thryassi

been adopted, and his authority followed by

nelli and Cramer. (Romanelli, vol. i. p Ml:

Cramer's Italy, vol. ii. pw 367.)

The Pktelim Moxtks(to. nr-n^Xlm Wt\

tinned by Plutarch (Croat. 11), to which Sfartssi

retired after his defeat by Crassus, are evidently •

rugged group of the Apennines S. of the C vas

between Petelia and Consentia. [E. H. bV)

PE'TEON (n#Vw: £tk nerPriori a Ml

of Boeotia, mentioned by Homer (/£, ii. 500\e|

situated near the road from Thebes to Affi&sil

(Strab. ix. p. 410.) Strain) oontradicta hinMafj

the course of the same page (I.e.), in one asasd

placing Peteon in the Tbebais, and is souther I

the Haliart'ia. (Comp. Plut. Sarr. .In. 4;

iv. 7. s. 12; Steph. B. s. r.) The posit.or. of 1

is uncertain. Leake supjoses it niay be l

by some ancient remains at the southern extrasj

of the lake Paralimni. (A'wrtAerw Gmae, veil

p. 320.)

PETINESCA, in the country of the Heirs!!

placed in the Itins. between Aventicnm (.tt**atij

and Salodurum (Solothum); at the distance «f 1

in the Anton. It in. from Aventicum ana xinx sa|

Tabic; and at the distance of x. from Sakda

both the Itineraries. Some geographers bate J

Petinesca at a place named /.■-*; but tied

does not agree with tliat given by the Itins. I

Petinesca and Salodurum, as D'Anville <

also says that the position of Biame {Bid) t

sponds to the ancient numbers, if we take t

indicate Gallic leagues. Cluver also riaesd 1

ni*sca at BUI. [G. i

PKTITAKUS- [AoDLoem]

PETOV10 (noro€u»y, or Tla-T^aw. Ptoi i

§ 4: Pcttan), also called Poetovio (/ti

262; and in inscriptions ap. Orelli, n.

tavio, and Petaviona, was an important

Upper Pannonia, on the river Drarua and tlsrl

tiers of Noricum. In inscriptions it is caDsi^J

man colony, and bears the surname of L'lfaa;

it may be inferred that it received Romans <

from either Trajan or Hadrian, who

extended the place. Its importance is I

attested by the fact that it was the i

Legio xiii. Gemina, and that an imperial;

existed outside its walls. (Tac. UtaL iii. \\ j

Marc. SIT 37 ; //. Hiero*. p. 561

iv. 19.) The modern town of Ptttam is CSfl

the left bank of the Drove; and as 1

tions, and other ancient remains are found <

the opposite side, it is probable that the i

torio was situated on the richt bank o:<^cussSj

nwdorn Peitau. (Com p. K. Mayer, t'erensanw

$try?rnidrhuchc Altcrthumer, Gritu, 1783, 4

Mm har. Xoricum. i. p. 364.) [L^

PETRA (flerpa), ** rock," the name

towns. 1. In Kumpr. 1. Pctua

Umbria. [Intkkcisa.]

me M ssl

