LAPURDUM. 125 LAElXTjM.

bestowed on them their freedom, and also restored

their dry. (Dion Cass. li. 2.) When Christianity

was established. Lappa became an episcopal see;

tiie name of its bishop is recorded as present at the

Synod of Ephesus. A. D. 431, and the Council of

Cbaleedon, A. D. 451, as well as on many other sub­

sequent occasions. (Cornelius, Creta Sacra, vol. i.

pp. 251, 252.)

Lappa was 32 SI. P. from Eleuthema and 9 MP.

from Cisamus, the port of Aptera {Peut. Tab."); dis­

tances which agree very well with Polis, the modern

representative of this famous city, where Mr. Pashley

(Travels, vol. i. p. 83) found considerable remains of

a massive brick edifice, with buttresses 15 feet wide

and of 9 feet projection ; a circular building, 60 feet

diameter, with niches round it 11 feet wide; a cistern,

76 ft. by 20 ft; a Roman brick building, and several

tombs cut in the rock. (Comp. Mus. Class. Antiq.

vol. ii. p. 293.) One of the inscriptions relating to this

city mentions a certain Marcus Aurelius Clesippus,

in whose honour the Lappasans erected a statue.

(Grater, p. 1091; Chishull, Antiq. Asiat. p. 122;

Mabilion, if as. Ilal p. 33; Bockh, Corp. Iiucr. Gr.

voL ii. p. 428.)

The head of its benefactor Augustus is exhibited

on the coins of Lappa: one has the epigraph, 0EH

KA1ZAP1 ZEBAZTO; others of Domitian and

Commodus are found. (Hardouin, Num. Antiq.

pp. 93, 94 ; Mionnet, vol. ii. p. 286; Supplem. vol.

ir. p. 326 ; Kasche, vol. ii. pi. ii. p. 1493.) On the

autonomous coins of Lappa, from which Spanheim

supposed the city to have possessed the right of

asylum.like the Grecian cities enumerated in Tacitus,

see Eckhel, vol. iL p. 315. The maritime symbols

on the coins of Lappa are accounted for by the ex­

tension of its territory to both shores, and the posses­

sion of the port of Phoenix. [E. B. J.]

LAPURDUM, in Gallia. This place is only men­

tioned in the Notilia of the Empire, which fixes it

in Xavempopulana; but there is neither any historical

n^dce nor any Itinerary measurement to determine

its position. D'Anville, who assumes it to be re­

presented by Bnyonne, on the river Adour, says that

the name of Bayonne succeeded to that of Lapurdum,

and the country contained between the Adour and

the Bidasoa has plained the name of Labourd.

It is said that the bishopric of Bayonne is not men­

tioned before the tenth century. The name Bayonne

U Basque, and means "port." It seems probable

that Lapurdum may have been on the site of Bayonne;

bat it U not certain. [G. L.]

LAB FLUV1US. [Cakis Flcmen.]

LARANDA (to Adpapoa: Eth. Aapavocvs, f.

AaparSis; Larenda or Karaman), one of the most

important towns of Lycaonia, 400 stadia to the

south-east of Iconium. Strabo (xii. p. 569) states

that the town belonged to Antipater of Derbe, which

Uiows that for a time it was governed by native

princes. Respecting its history in antiquity scarcely

anything is known beyond the fact that it was taken

fcr storm, and destroyed by Perdiccas (Diod. xviii.

22); that it was afterwards rebuilt, and on ac­

count of the fertility of its neighbourhood became

one of the chief seats of the Isaurian pirates. (Amm.

Marc. xiv. 2; comp. Steph. B. s. v.; Ptol. v. 6.

§ I"; Hienx-L p. 675; Euscb. Hist. Eccl. vi. 19.)

Siuias (<. r.) says that Laranda was the birthplace

U Xestor. an epic poet, and father of PLsander, a

p*t of «till greater celebrity; but when he calls the

former Aaparofttt Ik Ai/»clat, he probably mistook

Ljcia for Lycaonia. Leake (d*. Min. p. 100)

states that he found no Greek remains at Laranda

nor are there any coins belonging to the place. The

ancient name, Larenda, is still in common use

among the Christians, and is even retained in the

firmans of the Porte; but its more general name,

Karanum, is derived from a Turkish chief of the

same name; for it was at one time the capital of a

Turkish kingdom, which lasted from the time of the

partition of the dominion of the Seljukian monarch*

of Iconium until 1486, when it was conquered by

the emperor Bayazid II. At present the town is

but a poor place, with some manufactures of coarse

cotton and woollen stuffs. Respecting a town in

Cappadocia, called by some Laranda, see the article

Leasdis. [L. S.]

LARES (Sail. Jug. 90, where Laris is the ace.

pi.: hipns, Ptol. iv. 3. § 28: the abl. form La-

bibus is given, not only, as is so usual, in the Itin.

Ant p. 26, and the Tab. Peut., but also by Au­

gustine, adv. Donat. vi. 20; and that this ablative

was used for the nominative, as is common in the

Romance languages, is shown by the Greek form

AdptSos, Procop. B. V. ii. 23, whence came at once

the modern name, Larbuss or Lorbus). An important

city of Numidia, mentioned in tiie Jngurthine War

as the place chosen by Marius for his stores and

military chest. (Sail. Jug. I. e.) Under the Romans

it became a colony, and belonged to the province of

Africa and the district of Byzacena. Ptolemy places

it much too far west. It lay to the E. of the

Bagradas, on the road from Carthage to Theveste,

63 M. P. from the latter. In the later period of

the Empire it had decayed. (Pellissier, Exploration

Scienttjlque de VAlgirie, vol. vi. p. 375.) [P. S.]

LARGA, in Gallia, is placed by the Anton. Itin.

between the two known positions of Epamanduodurum

(Mandeure) and Mons Brisiacus (Vieux Brisach).

The distance from Epamanduodurum to Larga is

24 M. P. in the Itin., and in the Table 16 Gallic

leagues, which is the same thing. Larga is Largitzen,

on or near the Largues, in the French department of

Haut Ellin and in the neighbourhood of Altkirch.

[Epamandl-odukum.] [G. L.]

LA'RICA (Aap.mj, Ptol. vii. 1. §§ 4, 62), a rich

commercial district on the extreme of India, described

by Ptolemy as being between Syrastrene and Ariaca,

and having for its chief town Barygaza (Beroach),

the emporium of all the surrounding country. It

must, therefore, have comprehended considerable

part of Gizerat, and some of the main land of India,

between the gulf of Barygaza and the Namadus or

Nerbudda. Ptolemy considered Larice to have been

part of Indo-Scythia (vii. 1. § 62), the Scythian

tribes having in his day reached the sea coast in

that part of India. [V.]

LARI'NUM (AtSpow.Ptol.; Aipiva, Steph. B.:

Eth. Aapivaios, Steph. B.; but Aapii'aTit, Pol.; Lari-

nas, -Stis : Larino Vecchio), a considerable city in

the northern part of Apulia, situated about 14 miles

from the sea, a little to the S. of the river Tifemus.

There is much discrepancy among ancient authori­

ties, as to whether Larinum with its territory, ex­

tending from the river Frento to the l'ifernus,

belonged properly to Apulia or to the land of the

Frentani. Ptolemy distinctly assigns it to the latter

people; and Pliny also, in one passage, speaks of the

"Larinates cognomine Frentani :" but at the same

time he distinctly places Larinum in Apulia, and

not in the "regio Frentana," which, according to

him, begins only from the Tifernus. Mela takes the

same view, while Strabo, strangely enough, omits all

