OTIS. 505 OXIA PALUS.

(Vnjf. Am Til 675) and " nemerosus" (Lucan, vi.

U7> It is now usually called Gvro, from a large

nj»ci of this mm upon its sides; but its highest

iij.mii, which lies to the east of this village, is

tansd Jmrorowii, and is 5669 feet above the

mrti J to? res. The subsoil of the whole range is

of various and highly-inclined strata

mixed with iron ore, amyanthe niul

(Leake, Northern Greece, vol. ii. p. 17,

tsI it. p. 330, seq.; Journal of Geoyr. Society,

»d vi p.«.)

OTIS, * town on the Euphrates below Babylon,

v. *t*jve the commencement of the Babylonian

«U-.be». (Plin. t. 36.) [V.]

OITOBOCORBAS (' OrropoKopias, Ptol. vi.

14. i§ 2. 3), the E. termination of the Etnodi

H«A This is an example of a Sanscrit word

wars has been preserved in Ptolemy's geography,

■ ■ a merely the Greek form of the Uttarakuru

■Tdr * Ms Lib ha rata," or the highland of the happy

lat-i-, lirppTtvjreans, who lived there sheltered from

■W aii Uacts, about whom, nnder the name of

Arriroui, a* Pliny (vi. 20) relates, a certain

AAfjartae wrote a book. Ammianus (xxiii. 6. §

*>). oacymg Ptol?my, has Opurocakra, and  
wXwBKe (l 2) Ottorogviras. The sacred race of

•as i.rinz in the desert of whom Ctesias (Ind. 8, ed.

ti >peaks. belling to this imaginative geography,

saw in the snow-capped summits of the IJittut-

law •_•« chosen habitation of the Gods and of the

According to Ptolemy (vi. 16. § 5, viii.

IK. § 7) there was a people of the Ottorocorrae, with

af the same name, to the E. of the Casii

or mountains of Ktuchgar; as the city is

^ sf Pu4cxny s points of recordeii astronomical

having almost 14 hrs. 45 min. in its

dir. and being 7 hrs. E. of Alexandreia,

L»t have been some real locality bearing

sr. wbjrb most be assigned to E. Thibet.

, Iwl. Alt. toL i. pp. 511, 847.) [E. B. J.]

CKU-AB A ( Velt on the river Traun), a town of

Haxs, en the road from Laureacutn to Augusta

tzwfemiB. (I tin. A nt. pp. 235, 258,27 7; Tab.

r-e it La called Oviha.) It is said, accord-

izncriptioo, to have been a Roman colony

isaxne of Aurelia Antoniniana. (Muchar,

i_pp, 217,238,266, &c, 285, &c.) [L.S.]

,L [KCHDIAIIKS ]

1 PALLS, a lake which was formed by two

If u,T> rivers, the Araxates (Jaxartes) and

i (|a swlwsatiIj the Dermis of Ptolemy, vi. 12. §

tat it*.* of the Sogdii Monies. (Amm. Marc.

4. | 59.) This has been supposed to inti-

tava^a very vaguely, the formation of the

Arai; bat there seems to be more reason for

j; H with the lake of Karakoul to the

|t W Bokkara, formed by the Zar-afshun or

.g ~ river of Sanuzrcand, called also

or mare correctly the river of the Kvli-

wJ'Wk" This river is the l'olytinietus,

rrordiag to Aristobulas (ap. Strab. xi. p.

terwd Sogdian*, and was lost in the sands:

Cartias (vii. 37) describes it as entering

awst eiasunvjing" its course under ground,

really discharges itself into this lake,

Cii-As call iMnghiz, the Turkish word

Tut Greeks translated the indigenous

valley of which is one of the four

of the Persian poets—into that of Poly-

-an epithet which it  
it showers upon this

region, the plain of Bokhara, famed for its gigantic

melons. Ptolemy (vi. 12. § 3), if a correction be

made in his latitudes, which are uniformly put too

far forward to the N., gives the OxiANA I'ai.us

('nfetoK^ A.i/1.) its true position lietween Zariaspa

and Tribactra (Balkh and Byktmd). "From the

mountains of the Sogdii," says that geographer,

"descend several rivers with no name, hut which

are confluents; one of these forms the Oxiana Pa­

ins." The Sogdii Montes of Ptolemy are the

Anferah mountains, by which the volcanic chain

of the Thian-Schan is prolonged to the W. be­

yond the N. and S. break of Bolor, and Kosuyrt.

It is singular that Ptolemy does not connect the

Polytimetus with his Oxian lake, but mentions

it (vi. 14. § 2) as one of the rivers discharging

itself into the Caspian between the Oxus and

Jaxartes. Pliny knows nothing of the Polyti­

metus; and his Oxus Lacus (vi. 18, xxxi. 39;

Solin. 49) is either the crescent-shaped lake of

Sirikol, on the Bami Dunya, or u terraced roof

of the world," near the pass of Pamir, from which

the infant Amu [Oxus] issues, or some other

Alpine lake in the Bolor chain, from which this

river derives most of its waters. The marshes of

the Massagetae, into which the Araxes of Herodotus

(i. 202) flows, with the exception of ono of its 40

channels, indicate some Tague notion of the Sea of

Aral. Strabo (xi. p. 531), when he blames the

opinion of Herodotus and Cullisthcnes, about the 40

channels of the Araxes, also (p. 512) asserts that

some of the Massagetae live in marshes formed by

rivers and in islands; adding (p. 573) that this dis­

trict is flooded by the Araxes, which is divided into

many channels, of which only ono discharges itself

into the sea of Hyrcania, while the others reach

the Northern Ocean. It is surprising that Strabo

does not give to this river of the country of the Mas­

sagetae (which is undoubtedly the same as that of

which Herodotus speaks) the name of Jaxartes, which

he mentions 60 often (pp. 507, 509, 511, 517, 518),

and carefully distinguishes (pp. 527—529) from

the Araxes of the Matieni, or Armenian river, which

was known to llecataeus (/V. 170). Strabo (p.

513) as well as Herodotus (i. 202) allude to tho

seals, with the skins of which the natives clothe

themselves; and it is well known that these animals

are found in the Sea of Aral as well as in the Cas­

pian, and the lakes Baikul and Oron; for these und

other reasons it would seem that both Herodotus and

Strabo were acquainted with that series of lagoons

from which the Sea of Aral has been formed. This

was the opinion of Bayer (.-lent J'ttrop. vol. i. p.

398) and of D Anville, who {Curie da Monde da

Grecs et deg Roviains, 1763) designates the Aral

by these words, " Paludes recipientes Araxen apud

Herodotum." With Herodotus all this network of

lagoons forms a basin of the interior, while Strabo

connects it with the N. Ocean, directly, and not

through the medium of the Hyrranian sea, and the

channel by which, according to the systematic cos-

mogr.iphers of Alexandreia, this sea was united to

the Ocean. It must he observed that Strabo distin­

guishes clearly between the single mouth of the

Araxes of the Massagetae (Jaxartes) and the nume­

rous channels which go directly to the N. Ocean.

This statement acquires great importance as imply­

ing tradition* of a channel of communication between

the waters of the Avid and the Icy Sea; a com­

munication which probably took place along that

remarkable depression of 5° of longitude in length,

