36 ILLYRICUM. ILLYRICUM.

Inferior, Mnesia Superior, Moesia Inferior, Dacia, and

Thrace. This division continued till the time of

Constantino, who severed from it Lower Moesia and

Thrace, but added to it Macedonia, Thcssaly, Achaia,

Old and New Kpirus, Praevalitana, and Crete. At

this periud it was one of the four great divisions of

the Roman empire under a "Praefectus Pruetorio,"

and it is in this signification that it is used by the

later writers, such as Sextus Rufus, the "Auctor

Notitiae Dignitatum Imperii," Zosiinus, Jornandes,

and others. At the final division of the Roman em­

pire, the so-called " Illyricum Orientale," containing

the provinces of Macedonia, Thcssaly, Epirns, Hellas,

New £pirus,Crete,and Praevalitana,was incorporated

with the Lower Empire; while "Illyricum Occi-

dentalc" was united with Rome, and embraced Nc-

ricum, Pannonia, Dalmatia, Savia, and Valeria

Ripensis.

A. h.i.YKis Barbara or Rohana, was separated

from Iatria by the small river Areia {Area), and

bounded S. and E. by the Drilo, and on the N. by

the Sivun: consequently it is represented now by

part of Crotitut, all Dalmatia, the Herzegovina,

ilonlt-Segro, nearly all Bomia, and part at Albania,

lllyris It jmana was divided into three districts, the

northern of which was Iai'IMA, extending S. as far

as the Tedanius (Zrrmagna); the strip of land ex­

tending from the Arsia to the Titius {La Kerka)

was called I.iuuknia, or the whole of the north of

wliat was once Venetian Dalmatia; the territory of

the Dalmatak was at first comprehended between

the Nam and the Tilurus or Nestus: it then ex­

tended to the Titius. A list of the towns will be

found under the several heads of Lu'TDIA, I.I-

BLRH1A, and Dalmatia.

B. Ili.vkis Grakca, which was called in later

times Kl'lKUS Nova, extended from the river Drilo

to the SE., up to the Ceraunian mountains, which

separated it from Kpirus Proper. On the N. it was

bounded by the Roman Illyricum and Mount Scor-

dus, on the W. by the Ionian sea, on the S. by Kpirus,

and on the E. by Macedonia; comprehending, there­

fore, nearly the whole of modern Albania. Next to

the frontier of Chaonia is the small town of Amaji-

tia, and the people of the Amastiass and Bi'L-

i.iohkm. They are followed by the Tallaxtii,

who occupied the country N. of the Aol'S — the

great river of S. Macedonia, which rises in Mount

Ijuinon, and discharges itself into the Adriatic — as

tar as Epidamnus. The chief towns of this country

were Apoixonla, and Ki-idamml's or Dtkbiia-

cmi'X. In the interior, near the Macedonian fron­

tier, there is a considerable Lake, Lacus Ltciimtis,

from which the Drilo issues. Ever since the middle

agea there has existed in this part the town of

Achrida, which has been supposed to be the ancient

LiciixiDua, and was the capital of the Bulgarian

empire, when it extended from the Euxine as far as

the interior of Aetolia, and comprised S. Illyricum,

Kpirus, Acamania, Aetolia, and a part of Tbesaaly.

During the Roman period the Dassaketak dwelt

there; the neighbouring country was occupied by

the Autariatae, who are said to have been driven

from their country in the time of Caasandtx, when

they removed as fugitives with their women and

children luto Macedonia. The Akhiaki and Pak-

Tiiuri dwelt N. of the Autariatae, though nut at

the same time, but only during the Roman period.

Scoiiua {Scutari), in later times the capital of

Praevalitana, was unknown during the nourishing

period of Grecian history, and more properly belongs

| to Roman Illyricum; as Lissus, which was situated

at the mouth of the Drilo, was fixed upon by the

Romans as the border town of the lllyrians in the

S., beyond which they were not allowed to sail with

their privateers. Internal communication in this

Illyricum was kept up by the Via Candavla or

Kgnatia, the great line which connected Italy and

the East — Rome, Constantinople, and Jerusalem.

A road of such importance, as Colonel Leake re­

marks (A'ortA. Greece, vol. iii. p. 311). and on

I which the distance had been marked with mile­

stones soon after the Roman conquest of Macedonia,

we may believe to have been kept in the best order

as long as Rome was the centre of a vigorous au­

thority; but it probably shared the fate of many

other great establishments in the decline of the

empire, and especially when it became as much the

concern of the Byzantine as of the Roman govern­

ment. This fact accounts for the discrepancies iu

the Itineraries; for though Lychnidus, Heracleia,

and Kdessa, still continued, as on the Candavian

Way described by Polybius {ap. Strab. vii. pp. 322,

323), to be the three principal points between Dyr-

rhachium and Thessalonica (nature, in fact, having

strongly drawn that line in the valley of the Ge-

nusus), there appears to have been a choice of routes

over the ridges which contained the boundaries of

Illyricum and Macedonia. By comparing the An.

toninc Itinerary, the Peutingerian Table, and the

Jerusalem Itinerary, the following account of stations

in Illyricum is obtained: —

Dyrrliochium or Apollouia.

Clodiana ... Shumln.

Scampac ... Elbaaan.

Trajectus Geuusi - - Shunbi river.

Ad Dianam „

Candavia „

Tree Tubcrnae n

Pons Servilii et Claudanum - The Drin at Struga.

Patrae „

Lychnidus ... Atrvlha.

Brucida ... PrtJpa.

Scirtiana - - - „

Castr. - „

Nicaea • • - „

Heracleia - - „

3. Phgtical Geography. — The Ulyrian range of

mountains, which traverses Dalmatia under the name

of Mount Prolog, and partly under other names

(Mons Albius, Bebius), branches off in Camiula

from the Julian Alps, and then, at a considerable

distance from the sea, stretches towards Venelia,

approaches the sea beyond Aquileia near Trieste, and

forms Istria. After passing through lstria as a lofty

mountain, though not reaching the snow line, and

traversing Dalmatia, which it separates from /taenia,

it extends into Albania. It is a limestone range,

and, like most mountains belonging to that form­

ation, much broken up; hence the bold and pic­

turesque coast runs out into many promontories, and

is flanked by numerous islands.

These islands appear to hare originated on the

breaking up of the lower grounds by tome violent

action, leaving their limestone summits shore water*

From the salient position of the promontory termi­

nating in Punta delta Planca, they are divided into

two distinct groups, which the Greek geographers

called Absyrtidks and Lini'KxlDica. Tbey trend

NW. and SE., greatly lancer than broad, and form

various fine chan els, called " canale,* and named

from the nearest adjacent island: these being bold,

