1* LIGURIA. LIGURIA.

tlic Larngna, that falls into the sea at Chiarari;

and the Boactes of the same author, which ran Ihj

no othe^ than the Vara, the most considerable tri­

butary of the Magra. Much more considerable than

these, both in the volume of water and length of

their course, are the streams which flow from the

N. slopes of the Ai-ennir.es towards the Padtis. But

of these, the only ones whose names are found in any

ancient author, are the Tanarus, or TV/w.ro, one of

the most important of the southern tributaries of the

Padua; the Sti'KA, whirl) joins the Tanarus near

Polientia; and the Tkkhia, which ri>es in the

Ajiennines, not far from Genoa, and fulls into the

Po near Placentia, forming during a part at least of

its course the boundary between Liguria and Gallia

Cisjmdana.

The rivers marked in this part of Italy in the

Tabula are so confused, and the names so corrupt,

that it is useless to attempt to identity them.

The native Lignrians lived fur the most part in

mere villages and mountain fastnesses (" castella

vichjue," Liv. xh 17 ; Strab. v. p. 218), and had

probably few towns. Even under the Roman

government there seem to have been few places

which deserved the name of towns along the sea-

coast, or among the inner ranges of the Apen­

nines; but on the northern slopes of the same

mountains, where they approached or opened out

inta the plains, these grew up rapidly and rose to

great prosperity,— so that Pliny says of this part

of Liguria in his time, "omnia nobilibus oppidis

nitcnt" (PIin. iii. 5. s. 7). Those which he proceeds

to enumerate are: — Liiiahna (between Arquata

and Serravallt'), Dkrtona (Tortona), Iria (Vo-

ghcra), Raiidkrate (of uncertain site), Inim.stkia

(at Monlen, on the right bank of the V'o), Pol-

lkxtia (Polmzn), Cakkka Potkntia (uncertain),

Foiti'M Kri.vii. called Valestinum (I'nlmza),

Augusta Vaoieniu/Rum (Bene), Alba Pompkia

(Alba), Asta (Asti), Aquae Statiellak (Acqui).

To these must be added Augusta Taurinorum,

which was certainly a Ligurian town, though, from

its position on tlie left bank of the Padua, it is enu­

merated by Pliny with the cities of the xith region,

or Gallia Transpadana. In the same district were

Forum Vibii, in the territory of the Vagienni, and

Ocei.um, now Vxtau, in the valley of Ftnestretln*.

Segusio (Stua) was probably a Gaulish rather than

a Ligurian town. In addition to these may be

mentioned ClastidK'M (Casteggio), which is ex­

pressly called by Livy a Ligurian town, though

situated on the Gaulish frontier, and Ckba, now

Vera, in the upper valley of the Tanaro. Litubium,

mentioned by Livy together with Clastidium

(xxxii. 29), and Carystnm, noticed by the same

author as a town of the StatielU (xlii. 7), are other­

wise wholly unknown.

Along the coast of Liguria, beginning from the

Varus, the towns enumerated by Pliny or Ptolemy

are:—Nicaea (A'tce), Ckmrkelium (Cimiez, a

short distance inland), Portta HekcumsMokoeci

(Mtmaco), Albiun Intrmeuum (Ymtimiglia),

Ai.bilm Ikoaunum (Albenga), Vaoa Sabbata

( Vado, near Savona), Genua, Portuh Delphini

(Porto /'mw), Tigulha (probably Tregvto, near,

AlrWW), Segesta (probably Sestri), Portuh Veneris

(Porto rVnerc), and Portus Kricis (/^rtn), both

uf them on the Gulf of Spezia, which was called as

a whole the Portuh Linae [Lu.xa], The other

names enmneraled in the Itineraries are for the

•'lost part wry objure and uncertain, niut many <f

them, from their very form, are obviously not the

names of towns or even villages, but of mere statins*

or " inutationcs." The few which can be determined

with any certainty have their modem names uicrxnl

in the Itineraries here given.

1. The coast road from the Varus to the Macn

is thus given in the Tabula Peutingeriana: —

Varum fl. ( lar),

Cemenelium (Cimiez).

In Alpe Maritima (Ttirbia).

Albinteiiielitim ( Vintimiglia).

Costa lialuenae.

Lncus Bonnani.

Albingaiirmm (.4Ittenga).

Vada Snhata (I Wo).

Vicus Virginia.

Alba Docilia (AIbUsola).

Ad Navalia.

Ila.sta.

Ad Kiglinas.

Genua (Genoa),

Kicina.

Ad Solaria (Sofaro near Chiarari)

Ad Monilia (Mtmeglia).

In Alpe Pemiino.

Boron.

Luna (l.uni).

2. Tlie haine line of mute is thus given (in the

contrary direction) in the Itinerary of Antoninus

(p. 29:i;:—

Luna.

Boareas (probably Boactes fl.: the Vara).

Bodetia.

Te;ulata (perbaps identical with the Tigullia of

Plinv: I'rrijtixtt).

Delphinis (Portus Dclphini, l'lin.: Purto /'mo).

Genua (Genoa).

Libarium (Libarnum).*

l>rtnna (Tortoua).

Aquae (.lrylw).

Crixia.

Canalienm.

Vada Cabala ( 1 Wo).

Pullnjucem.

Alblnjjaiiimtri (Albenya).

Lucua Bomtani.

Costa Italat-nae.

Alliintimi'lmin ( Vmtimijlia).

Liiuinnetn (.Venrowe).

Alpe summa (7W>i7i).

Omeiu'lium (O'lttirr).

Varum flumen ( Var).

(The distances given along thia line of mate an

in both Itineraries ao corrupt and coufuaed that they

are omitted above. For a fuller discussion ot I be

routes in question see Wabkenaer, UeogrnpMu oV*

r?««/nt, vol. iii. pp. 18 — al; ami N'rm, Mono dtW

antirn /.iV/ur/o, vob i. pp. 97 KM).)

* It ia evkhait that the Antonine Itinerary her*  
qoita the coast road, and makea a auddro tore

inland to Dertona, and thence bark again by Aqua*

Statiellae to the coast at \'aila Sabuta, trom wheiae

it resumes the line of roast road. A c<«7ip*rw«

with tbe Tabula (aa given in fac-siniile by Manner!),

in which both line* of road are placed aide by aide,

•rill at once el plain how thia error originated; and

pointa out a aource of corruption and cuofuaMai ia

our existing copies of the Itinerary, which baa

doubtless ojierated in many other caeca when It

cannot now be ao distinctly traced.

