PICENUM. f,27 PICENUM.

tit trmWJ occupied by the Galli Senones, which

m iftaiirds incorporated into the province of

lubria. The latter district seems to hare been at

a tint regarded as rather belonging to Picenam.

Im I'oljbiui includes the "Gallicas Ager" in

i'ncam; and Livy even describes the colony of

tnum u founded " in Piceno." (Pol. ii. 21 j

Ln. tfL it.) Bat the boundaries of Picenum

•i.t diimttlj established, as above stated, in the

tat uf Aa^iutas. according to whose division it

<i ;i:ated the fifth Region of Italy. (Plin. iii. 13.

l IS, Smb. r. p. 240.) The district thus bounded

f -a t tract of about 80 geographical miles (800

itiiu, Strab. t. p. 241) in length, with an average

kndib of from 30 to 40 miles. The southern part

■-' lie territory thus limited was inhabited by a

'.-ji called tiie Pkaetctii, who appear to have

to some extent a different people from the Pi-

aaa: new* Pliny gives to this district the name

'! Eejis lYsetatiana; and Livy more than once

•xoa tra Pnetutianus Ager, as if it were distinct

irra lie I'irenas Ager. (Plin. L c; Liv. xxii. 9,

nri 43.) The narrow strip between the rivers

Voaau and Matrinus, called the Ager Hadrian as,

«n» to hive alao been regarded as in some degree

< rjarKe district (Plin. /. c; Liv. xxii. 9); but

t><4 'Jxte tract* were generally comprised by geo-

Tipm at mere subdivisions of Picenum in the

■wr oxjetjuve sense.

Vbj Dttle is known of the hiatory of the Picentes;

a: itoeni writers seem to have generally agreed in

Miliar tbein a Sabine origin; tradition reported

Bat they were a colony sent out from the parent

» tot in consequence of a vow, or what was called

i u •pring; and that their name was derived

he a Woodpecker (picus), the bird sacred to

■a, abjeh was said to have guided the emigrants

I tanr «arch. (Strab. v. p. 240; Plin. iii. 13.

> U; Feat. v. Piceno, p. 212.) Silius Italicus, on

•> «!ar haul, derives it from the name of Picus,

y UiSta divinity, whom he represents as the

MoWof Asralnm'(SiL Ital.viii. 439—445); but

fc; a b mostaoce only another form of the same

f* * That writer represents the region as pre-

pratticed by the Pelasgians; no mention of

■» a 4>or»i in any other author, but Pliny speaks

anaaoa and Liburnians as having had aet-

■•ata ea this coast, especially in the Praetutian

m - vhere Truentnm was said still to preserve

*"» J a Libumian colony (Plin. ic); while the  
»*>:*ii of Xumana and Ancona, further to the

• *» ascribed to the Siculi. (/4.) We have no

«a i estimating the value of these statements;

I ft Mems not improbable that in the last instance

B *w a confusion with the colony of Sicilian

'inch was established at a much later pc-

i a Aacona [Ajicowa.] This settlement,

■* an rounded about 380 B. C, by a budy of

poaa exiles who had fled from the tyranny of

■.'«• (Strab. v. p. 241), was the only Greek

•if n this part of Italy; and its foundation is

1 «rv fact transmitted to us concerning the his-

T Pconiuu previous to the time when it was

xii contact with the power of Rome. The

■» appear to have stood aloof from the long pro-

s*ti nctesta of the Romans witli their Somnite

but their proximity to the Gauls caused

> IViias to goon their alliance; and a treaty

*i>-»W bttceen the two nat ions in B. c. 299 seems

baa faithfully ohnerved until after the Se-

•» avl erased to be ibrrnulablc. (Liv. x. 10.)

The Picentes reaped the advantages of this long

peace in the prosperity of their country, which be­

came one of the most populous districts in Italy, so

that according to Pliny it contained a population of

360,000 citizens at the time of the Roman conquest.

(Plin. I. c) Nevertheless they Beem to have offered

but little resistance to the Roman arms, and wen;

reduced by the consuls Sempronius Sophus and Ap-

pius Claudius in a single campaign, b. c. 268.

(Flor. i. 19; Liv. EpiL xv; Oros. iv. 4; Eutrop. ii.

16.) The causes which led to the war are unknown;

but the fact that the Picentes and Sallentines were

at this time the only two nations of Italy that re­

mained unsubdued is quite sufficient to explain it.

From this time the Picentes lapsed into the or­

dinary condition uf the subject allies of Rome; and

though their territory is repeatedly mentioned as

suffering from the ravages of the Second Punic War

(Pol. iii. 86; Liv. xxii. 9, xxvii. 43), the name of

the people does not again occur in history till the

great outbreak of the nations of Italy in the Social

War, B.C. 90. In that memorable contest the Picentes

bore a prominent part. It was at Asculum, which

seems to have been always regarded as their capital,

that open hostilities first broke out; the massacre of

the proconsul Q. Servilius and hU legate Fonteius

in that city having, as it were, given the signal of

the general insurrection. (Appian, B. C. i. 88; Liv.

Epil. Ixxii; Veil. Pat. ii. 15 ; Diod. xxxvii. 2.)

The first attempt of Cn. Pompeius Strabo to reduce

Asculum was repulsed with loss; and it was with

difficulty that that general could maintain his footing

in Picenum while the other Roman armies were oc­

cupied in hostilities with the Marsi, Peligni, and

other nations nearer Rome. It was not till the

second year of the war that, having obtained a de­

cisive victory over the allies, he was enabled to re­

sume the offensive. Even then the Picentine general

Judacilius maintained a long struggle against Pom­

peius, which was at length terminated by the sur­

render of Asculum, and this seems to have been fol­

lowed by the submission of the rest of the Picentes,

B. c. 89. (Appian, B. C. i. 47, 48; Liv. F.pit.

lxxiv., lxxvi; Oros. v. 18; Flor. iii. 18.) There can

be no doubt that they were at this time admitted,

like the rest of the Italian allies, to the Roman fran­

chise.

Picenum was occupied almost without opposition

by Caesar at the commencement of the Civil War,

B.C. 49 (Caes. B. C. i. 11—15), the inhabitants

having universally declared in his favour, and thus

compelled the officers of Pompey to withdraw from

Auximum and Asculum, which they bad occupied

with strong garrisons. In the civil war between

Vitellius and Vespasian A. n. 69, it was occupied in

like manner without resistance by the forces of the

latter. (Tac Hut. iii. 42.) Picenum appears to

have continued to be a flourishing province of Italy

throughout the period of the Roman Empire; and

though Pliny speaks of it as having much fallen off

in population compared to earlier times (" quondam

nberrimae inultitudinis," Plin. iii. 13. s. 18), it still

contained a large number of towns, and many of these

preserved their consideration down to a late period.

It is probable that its proximity to Ravenna contri­

buted to its prosperity during the latter ages of tlio

Empire, after that city had become the habitual

residence of the emperors of the West. Under Au­

gustus. Picenum became the Fifth Region of Italy

(Plin. /. c.y, but at a later period wo find it com­

bined for administrative purposes with the district

ss 2

