MOSCHI. 373 M0SF.LLA.

ciSt m identifying it with Kesem, the last seaport

«~:«rti of Cape Farttut, his "Syagros extreraa."

I i>yr. of Arabia, voL ii. pp. 164. 178.) The posi-

it by D'Anville at the modem Muscat

itenable. (Ib. pp. 167, 168, 224, 233,

1M.)

2. A second harbour of this name is mentioned

ct tin mat tor of the Periplas, on the east of the

y>ent Prornoctorium, in the large bay named by

Iv-irsT Sachalhes Sinus (2axaAi'T?jv xdAvos), and

eat af the smaller one, named Oinana ("O#to»o), by

•■i* uihor of the Periplas, who places this Moscha

I -r.M 110c) stadia east of Syagros. He calls it a

prt (Moated fur the lading of the Sachalite in-

ir.-.* (Vwi i*oStt*iyiuyos toS 2axaAfroi> Xj&t-

vyit f pfoA^r), frequented by ships from Cane,

a wintering-place for late vessels from Limyrice

a Barrgazi, where they bartered fine linen, and

i- xtd oil fcr the native prodace of this coast Mr.

iv.-^r tarnishes an ingenious etymological expbvna-

ta; ct the recurrence of this name on the coast of

& ;»iilcea Sinus. "The Arabic Moscha, like

wttfwjc surcoV. siimifies a hide, or skin, or a

f <ta -r Uatker bl/vn up like a bladder. Now,

lUmi cfWtns us that the pearl divers who fre-

-r^iai his Sinus Sachalites (unquestionably the  
i ArrianMojrba Portns), were noted for the

af swimming, or floating about the bay,

rv«i by inflated hides or skins. What more

an that the parts frequented by these

tUald be named from this practice? . . .

loo. the naine of the Ascitae of Ptolemy

a skins'), the actual inhabitants of his

ia» Porta* immediately west of his Suagros." It

veurkahj? fact mentioned by modern travellers,

t±i practice still prevails among the fishermen

cj uet; for "as the natives hare bat few

Iks, they general]y substitute a single inflated

mr two mf these baring a flat board across them.

e» Cravat contrivance the fisherman seats himself,

'i*-r camM his small hand-net or plays his hook

at" (Lieut, d elisted, Travels in Arabia, vol. i.

ft. SO, cited by Fonter, Arabia, vol. ii. p. 175,

rr-e identification of Arrian's Moscha with

A n*rra, is complete. A man reckons

s.<ia from Syagros across the bay which he

Oravma. This measurement tallies exactly

a r£ ihe Bay of Seger, in Commodore Owen's

. and from the eastern extremity of

Portus, Arrian assigns a dis-

*4 500 stadia, which measures with nearly  
'raar-t^acas the distance to Rnt-al-Sair (the

*d ri»bmi) situated about 60 Roman miles  
*•* '4 the preceding headland. The identity  
Ptocttn of Arrian with the Ausara of

further corroborated. "Arrian states

to liave been the emporium of

tr»ir; and Pliny proves Ausara to have

■f eroporiam of this trade, by his notice

that one particular kind of incense bore

•w" Aasaritie-" (Plin. xii. 35; Forster,

K*. 177.) [0. W.]

OUxryo*. Herat. Fr. 188, up. Sleph. B.

tribe, who have been identified

of the prophet Ezekiel (xxviL

BHi Alterthumtk, vol. i. pt. i.

with the Tibareoi, Mosynaeii,

mmi liajdac, they formed the 19th sa-

* -ie Prr-Man empire, extending along the  
tar Eaxisc, and bounded on the S. by the

aa 4 the Armenian mountains. (Herod, iii.

94, vii. 78.) In the time of Strabo (xi. pp. 497

—499) Moschice (Moo-x«c^) — in which was a

temple of Leucothea, once famous for its wealth, but

plundered by Phamaces and Mithridates — was

divided between the Colchians, Albanians, and

Iberians (comp. Mela, iii. 5. § 4; Plin. vi. 4).

Procopius (B. G. iv. 2), who calls them Meo-got,

says that they were subject to the Iberians, and had

embraced Christianity, the religion of their masters.

Afterwards their district became the appanage of

Liparites, the Abasgian prince. (Cedren. vol. ii.

p. 770; Le Bean, Bat Empire, vol. xiv. p. 355 j

St. Martin, Memoires sur VArmenie, vol. ii. p.

222.) [E. B. J.]

MO'SCHICI MONTES (t4 M«rx«o Cpr,, Strab.

i. p. 61, xi. pp. 492, 497, 521, 527, xii. p. 548,

\ Plut. romp. 34; Mela, i. 19. §13; Ptol. v. 6.

§ 13; Moschicus M., Plm. v. 27), the name applied,

with that of Paryadres, and others, to the mountain

chain which connects the range of Anti-Taurus

with the Caucasus. Although it is obviously im­

possible to fix the precise elevation to which the

ancients assigned this name, it may be generally

described as the chain of limestone mountains, with

volcanic rocks, and some granite, which, branching

from the Caucasus, skirts the E. side of Jmiretia,

and afterwards, under the name of the Perengah

Tagh, runs nearly SW. along the deep valley of

Ajirah in the district of Tchildir; from whence it

turns towards the S., and again to the W. along the

valley of the Acavipsis, to the W. of which, bearing

the name of the Kop Tagh, it enters Lesser Asia.

(Ritter, Erdkwde, vel. x. p. 816; Chesney, Exped.

Euphrat. vol. i. p. 2S5.) [E. B. J.]

MOSE is Gallia appears in the Table on a road

from Durocortoriim (Artnf) to Meduantnm. [Me-

duaxtcm.] The place appears to be Mouzon on

the Moat. D'Anville says that the place is called

Mosoniagus in the oldest middle age records. [G.L.]

MOSELLA (Mosel, Moselle'), a river of Gallia,

which joins the Rhine at Coblem [Confluentes].

In the narrative of his war with the Usipetes and

Tenetheri Caesar (£. G. iv. 15) speaks of" driving

them into the water "ad confluentem Mosae ct

Rheni." One of the latest and best editors of Caesar,

who however is singularly ignorant of geography,

supposes this confluence of the Mosa and the Rhcnus

to be the junction of the Mosa and a part of the

Rhenus which is mentioned by Caesar in another

place (B. G. iv. 10; Mosa.) But this is impossible,

as D'Anville had shown, who observes that the

Usipetes [Menapii] had crossed the Rhine in the

lower part of its course, and landed on the territory

of the Menapii. Having eaten them up, the invaders

entered the country of the Eburones, which we know

to be between the Rhine and the Mosa, and higher

up than the country of the Menapii. From the

Eburones the Germans advanced into the Condrusi

in the latitude of Liege; and they were here before

Caesar set out after them. (B. G. iv. 6.) Caesar's

narrative shows that the German invaders were not

thinking of a retreat: their design was to penetrate

further into Gallia, where they had been invited by

some of the Gallic states, who hoped to throw off

the Roman yoke. After the defeat of the Germans

on the river, Caesar built bis wooden bridge over the

Rhine, the position of which was certainly some­

where between Coblem and Andernach. The, con­

clusion is certain that this confluence of the Rhenus

and the Mosa is the confluence of the Rhenus and

the Mosella at CobUnz; and we must explain Caesar s

B LI J

