42 INATUS. IMEUS MONS.

wondiip of the Cabeiri and Hermes whom the Ca-

rians called Imbrasus, (Steph. B. v. "lfiGpos.)

Both the island and the city of Imbros are mentioned

by Homer, who gives to the former the epithet of

7ranraAofV/T7j. (//. xii'i. 33, xir.281, xxiv. 78, Hymn,

in Apoll. 36.) The island was annexed to the Per­

sian empire by Otanes, a general of Dareius, at

which time it was still inhabited by Pelasgians.

(Herod, v. 26.) It was afterwards colonised by the

Athenians, and was no doubt taken by Miltiades

along with Lemnos. It was always regarded in

later times as an ancient Athenian possession: thus

the peace of Antalcidas, which declared the inde­

pendence of nil the Grecian states, nevertheless al­

lowed the Athenians to retain possession of Lemnos,

Imbros, and Scyros (Xen. Hell, iv, 8. § 15. v. 1. §

31); and at the end of the war with Philip the Ro­

mans restored to the same people the islands of

Lemnos, Imbros, Delos, and Scyros. (Liv. xxxiii.

30.)

The coins of Imbros have the common Athe­

nian emblem, the head of Pallas. Imbros seems to

have afforded good anchorage. The fleet of An-

tiochus first sailed to Imbros. and from thence

crossed over to Sciathus. (Liv. xxxv. 43.) The

ship which carried Ovid into exile also anchored in

the harbour of Imbros, which the poet calls '* Imbri.i

COIN OF IMIIKOS.

tcllus." (Ov. Trist. i. 10, 18.) The island is still

called by its ancient name, Emhro or Iiumt.

IMEUS MONS, is the name given in the Tabula

Peutingeriana to the mountain pass which leads

from the basin of the lake Fucinus to that of the

Peligni. and was traversed by the Via Valeria on

the way from Alba to Corfinium. Tins pass, now

called the Forcn Carruso, must in all ages have

been an important line of communication, being a

natural saddle-like depression in the ridge which

Itounds the lake Kuchma on the E., so that the

ascent from Colt Armtno (Ceifennia) to the sum­

mit of the pass (a distance of 5 miles) prevents but

little difficulty. The latter is the highest point

reached by the line of the Valerian Way in traversing

the whole breadth of Italy from one sea to the other,

but is elevated only a few hundred feet above the

lake Fucinus. The Human road acro>s this pa»s

was first rendered practicable for carriages by the

emperor Claudius, who continued the Via Valeria

from Cerfennin to the mouth of the Aternus. [Cer-

FENNIA.] {Tab, PeuL; Holsten. Not. ml Our.

p. 154; Kramer,FucinerSee, pp.14,60.) [E.H.B.]

1MMADKUS or IMMADHA, a position on the

coast of Gallia Narbonensis between Telo (Toulon)

and Massilia. The distances along the coast were

doubtless accurately measured, but we cannot be cer­

tain that they are accurately given in theMSS.; and it

seems that the routes, especially in the parts near the

coast, have been sometimes confounded. Immadrns,

the next station east of Marseille, is placed by

D'Anville, and others who follow him. at the J,*le

f/e Maire; but the numbers will not agree. The

real distance is much less than xii. M. P., which is

the distance in the Itin.; and D'Anville, applying his

usual remedy, alters it to vii. But Walckenaer well

objects to fixing on a little island or rock as the po­

sition of Emmadrus, and then charging the Itinerary

with being wrong. lie finds the distance from a

little bay west of Cap Morgum to Marseille to

agree with the Itin. measure of 12 M. P. [G. L-]

IMMUNDUS SINUS (cucatfapros k6\tos. Strab.

xvii. p. 770; Diod. iii. 39; Ptol. iv. 5. § 7; Phiu

vi. 29. s. 33), the modern Foul Bay, in lat. 22°

derived its apjvliation from the badness of its an­

chorage, and the difficulty of navigating vessels

among its numerous reefs and breakers. In its

furthest western recess lay the city of Berenice,

founded, or rather enlarged, by Ptolemy Philadelphia,

and so named by him in honour of his mother, the

widow of Ptolemy Soter; and op|>osite its mouth was

the island Ophiodes, famous alike for the reptiles

which infested it, and its quarries of tojiaz. The

latter was much employed by Aegyptiun artisans for

ornamenting rings, scarabaei, &c, etc. ritERE-

sick.]" [W. B^ I>.]

IMUS PYRENAEUS, a station in Aqiiitania, at

the northern base of the Pyrenees, on the road from

Aquae Tarbellicae (/)as) to Poinpelnn (Panij*l<ma)

in Spain. linns Pyrenaeus is between Carasa

((tarts) and the Sumums Pyrenaeus. The Smnmwi

Pyrenaeus is the Summit dt Castel-Pimm; and the

Imus Pyrenaeus is St. Jettn-Pietl-de-Ptrrtj "at the

fool of the pass." The distance in the Itin. between

Summus Pyrenaeus and Imus Pyrenaeus is v„

which D'Anville would alter to x., to tit the real dis­

tance. Walckenaer takes the measure to be (iallic

leagues, and therefore tlie v. will be equivalent to

7J M. P. [G.L.]

INA Clfa, Ptol.; Etk. Inensis), a town of Sicily,

the position of which is wholly unknown, except that

Ptolemy reckons it among the inland towns in the

south of the island. (Ptol. iii. 4. § 15.) That author

is the only one of the geographers that mentions it,

and the name has been thought Corrupt; but it is

supported by the best MSS. of Ptolemy, and the

reading "Inenscs" is equally well supported in

Cicero (IVrr. iii. 43), where the old editions had

"Ennenses." (Zumpt, ad foe.) The orator appear*

to rank them among the minor communities of the

island which had been utterly ruined bv the exactions

of Verres * [E. U.K.]

INACHO'RUTM Qlvaxupiov, Ptol. iii. 17. § 2),

a city of Crete, which, from the similarity of sound,

Mr. Pushlcy ( liar. vol. ii. p. 78) is inclined to be-

lieve was s-ituntod in the modern district of Ennt>i-

Uioria, on the \V. coast of Ciete. (Hilck, A'rWa,

vol. i. p. 379.) [K. Ii. J.]

I'XACHL'S ClvaX°*)- !• A river of the Argei*.

[ Argos, p. 200, b.]

2. A river in the territory of Argos Amphilochi-

cum. [Argos AMriiiUK:ii., p. 208, b.]

INAMME. [Aenaria.]

I'NATUS ("IraTo?, Ptol. iii. 17. § 2), a city of

Crete, the same, no doubt, as Einatus (*Etvaros,

Steph. B.; Hesych. Etyrn. Afaffn. s. r.), situated on

a mountain and river of the same name. Tlie lVo-

tinger Table puts a place called Inata on a river 24

M. P. E. of Lisia, and 32 M. P. W. of Hicrapytna.

These distances agree well with the three or four

hamlets known by the name Kasteliatui, derived

from the Venetian foitress. Castle Belvedere, situ­

ated on a hill a little to the N. of the villages. The

