ROMA. 811 ROMA.

rr<bt «u sppmached by the Clivcs Publicu'8,

'■ul, want lav at the northern extremity of the

Irnitjne, near the I'orta Trigemina; but its situa-

-1 onnnt be accurately inferred from this circum-  
'm Tte Clivua Pnblicius, made, or rather

eiaua widened and paved, by the aedilea L. and

I 1'itbcii Malleoli, wu the main road leading up

» bal (Festus, p. 238; Varr. L.L. v. § 158;

rat -I •/. 5.) Canina places the temple near the

turn af & Sabiaa, where there are traces of some

neat building (Indkxuione, p. 536). This is one

tie temple* mentioned as having been rebuilt

tsfustus (Mm. Ancyr. tab. iv.)

Fma toe document last quoted it would appear that

m wu a Templs of Jititer on the Aventino;

d its eiiatence is alio testified by the Fasti Ami-

•mmi (Id. Aug. kkh. wn. waxak. vortvmno.

a narrow).); but we do not find it mentioned in

t minor. The passage just quoted likewise points

awWy to a aeeeUnm or Aha or VoitTUMXus,

■cb the Fajti Capnmici mention as being in the

return Jfajam. The Temple or Minkrva, also

'»i in the Mmt. Ancynumm as having been

eared by Augustas, is better known, and seems to

»t ban m existence at all events as early as the

«a Punic War. since on account of some verses

f t Lrvitn Andronicus bad written to be sung in

aVratiea of tiie better success of the war, this

fit was appointed as a place in which scribes,

« apwars porta were then called, and actors

n*i meet to offer gifts in honour of Livius.

■tea, p. 333.) From an imperfect inscription

tsar, axxix. 5) it would appear that the temple

• war tiie Armihistrium, and indeed it is named

with it in the Xutitia.

a part of the Avenline railed " Saxim,"

"Sun Hxcklm" (Cic. Dem. 53), on which

at* was related to have stood when he took the

area, winch Bust therefore be considered as

E*al with, or rather perhaps as the highest and

'< cpiruuus part of, the place ctdlcd Kemuria,

r.seqtirntlr on the very summit of the hill,

re Oral (Fast. t. 148, seq.):—

* in terra Diva csnenda Bona est

at bare natiTa, loco res nomina fecit,

Ai rWfcarit Saxum; {tars buna montis ea est.

lias spat wa* erected a Temple ok the Bona

, s» Ovid proceeds to say 14 leniter acclivi jugo."

t express-ion jngvm, we may conclude that it

"i' the middle of tiie hill; but Hadrian removed

tr.Vm B.-nae Deae transtulit," Spart. llailr.

east plaeed ft under tiie hill; whence it sub-

early obtained the name of Templum Bonao

Sibwaxoraate. and now stood in the 12th

as. or Patcina Publics, where it is mentioned in

•>*axaa. probably under the SK. side of the

: for jt legend of Hercules, connected

Bar rites of the Bona Dea, see Propertius (v.

4 atarrutatat ( I 12).

we rind a Temple of Li sa and one

tsooed on tl>e Aventine. The former

mm M satt to be ctmfounded with the temple of

l as rtasarn baa done (Beschr. iii. p. 412),

we ftaat it mefiti<e>ed as a substantive temple

•Tsl asxtlaora. (Lir. xL 2; Aur. Vict. Kir. 111.

f-mf_ Pi mtm Prid. Kal Apr. "Lunae in

- Bgswl in the Caprnn., ^mifmi.and  
- it find, airier Id. Aug., "Dianse in Aven-  
i |t m si salt It atuod on the side next the

[ Ti, Tkju*uc ot Libkrtas was founded by

T. Sempronius Gracchus, the father of the conqueror

of Benevenlnm; the latter caused a picture repre­

senting his victory to be placed in the temple. (Liv.

xxiv. 16.) Some difficulty has been occasioned by

the manner in which the restoration of this temple

by Augustus is mentioned in the Mtmvinentum

Ancyranum, namely, " Aedes Minervae et Junonis

Reginae et Jovis Libertatis in Aventino (feci)"

(tab. iv. 1. 6). In the Greek translation of this

record, discovered in the temple at Ancyra, and

communicated by Hamilton (Researches in Asia

Mm. ii. n. 102), the words "Jovis Libertatis " are

rendered Aibs "EAeoflfptoi/, whence Franz assumed

that the Latin text was corrupt, and that we ought

to read " Jovis Liberatoris." (Gerhard's Archuobtg.

Zeitung, no. ii. p. 25.) But there is no mention of

any such temple at Rome, though Jupiter was cer­

tainly worshipped there under the title of Liberator

(see the section on the Circus Maximus); whilst

the existence of a temple of Libertas on the Aven­

tine is attested not only by the passage just cited

from Livy, but also by Paulus' Diaconus. (* Liber­

tatis templum in Aventino fucrat constrnctum,"

p. 121.) Hence it seems most probable that the

Greek translation is erroneous, and that the reading

"Jovis Libertatis" is really correct, the copula

being omitted, as is sometimes the case ; for ex­

ample, in the instance "Honoris Virtutis," for

Honoris et Virtutis, &c. And thus, in like man­

ner, we find a temple of Jupiter Libertas indi­

cated in inscriptions belonging to municipal towns

of Italy (v. Orell. Inter, no. 1249, 1282; cf.

Becker, Handb. Nachtriigc, p. 721; Zumpt, t

Mon. Ancyr. Commentar. p. 69). Another ques­

tion concerning this Templum Libertatis, namely,

whether there was an Atrium Libertatis con­

nected with it, has occasioned much discussion.

The Atrium Libertatis mentioned by Cicero (ad A U.

iv. 16), tho situation of which we have examined in

a preceding section, could not possibly have been on

the Aventine j yet the existence of a second one

adjoining the temple of Libertas on that hill has

been sometimes assumed, chiefly from Martial (xii.

3). The question turns on the point whether the

words " Domus alta Remi," in that epigram, neces­

sarily mean the Aventine; for our own part we

think they do not. The question, however, is some­

what long; and they who would examine it more

minutely may refer to Becker (Handb. p 458, seq.;

Urlichs, Horn. Titpogr.p.3\, seq.; Becker, Anhcort,

p. 25, seq.; Canina, Indicazitme, p. 536, seq.; Ur­

lichs, Anttcttrt, p. 5, seq.)

As the Basis Capilulina names among the Vici

of the 13th Region, a Vici'S Finn and a Vicus For-

tunak Di biae, we may perhaps assume that there

were temples to thoBe deities on or near the Aven­

tine; but nothing further is known inspecting them.

The Notitia mentions on the Aventine, " Thermae

Sirianae et Decianae." Theformerof these baths

seem to have been built by Trajan, and dedicated in

the name of his friend Licinius Sura, to whom he

was partly indebted for the empire. (" Hie ob hono-

rem Surac, cujus studio imperiuni arripuerat. lavacra

condidit," Aur. Vict. Kpit. 13: cf. Dion Cass, lxviii.

15; Spart. yloVi. 2, seq.) The dwelling of Snra

was on that side of the Aventine which faced the

Circus Maximus, and probably, as we have said,

near the temple of Diana: —

"Quique vidct propius Magni certamina ("irci

Laudat Aventinae vicinus Sura Dianae."

(Mart. vi. 64. 12.)

