UMBRIA. UHBRO 1317

(.worn (Petaro); the I'kimtmiin, noir called

th< Conca; and the Ariminus (Haraxhia), which

give it* name to the celebrated city of Ariininum,

and Menu to hare been regarded by Pliny as the

northern boundary of Umbria, though that limit was

certainly marked at an earlier period by the far-

famed though trifling stream of the Rubicon. The

rirer Sapis also flowed through the Umbrian terri­

tory in the upper part of its course, and gave name

to Uie Sapinia Tribos, mentioned by I.ivy as one of

the divisions of the Umbrian nation.

All the waters which descend on the W. of the

Umbrian Apennines discharge themselves into the

Tiber. None of them are considerable streams, and

tbe TlXIA and Clitumnus are the only two the an­

cient names of which have been preserved to us. The

Nar, a much more important river, the sources of

which are in the Sabine territory, seems to have

formed the boundary between Umbria and the land

of the Sabines, through a considerable part of its

course; but it entered the Umbrian territory near

lnteramna (7enu). and traversed it thence to its

junction with the Tiber.

Two princiful passes crossed the main chain of

the Apennines within the limits of Umbria, and

served to maintain the communication between the

two portions of that country. The one of tieae was

followed by the main line of the Flamiuian Way,

whicii proceeded almost due N. from Forum Flamimi,

where il quitted the valley of the Clitumnus, and

passed by Nuceria, Tadinum, and Helvillum, to the

crest of the mountain chain, which it crossed between

the last place and Cales (Cagli), and descended by

the narrow ravine of the Kurlo (Intercisa) into the

valley of the Metaurus, which it then followed to the

Adriatic at Fano (Fanum Fortunac). This celebrated

road continued throughout the period of tile Komau

Empire to be the main line of communication, not only

from the plains of Umbria to the Adriatic, but from

Rome itself to Ariminum and Cisalpine tiaul. Its

military importance is sufficiently apparent in the

civil war between Vitellius and V'espasian. (Tac.

But. L 86, iii. 50, 52, etc.) Another line of road

given in the Antonine Itinerary, quitted this main

lint at Nuceria, and, turning abruptly to the E.,

crossed a\ mountain pass to Prolaqueum (Pioraco),

in the valley of the I'otenza, m\& descended that

valley to Septempeda in Picenum (S. Severing), and

thence to Ancona. This pass has been in modem

times wholly abandoned. The present road from

Home to Ancona turns to the E. from FMjno (Ful-

ginium) and crosses the mountain ridge between that

place and Camerino, descending to TvUntno ia the

valley of the Ckienti (Flusor).

The towns of Umbria were numerous, though few

of them were of any great importance. 1. On the W. of

the Apennines, and beginning with those nearest to

Hume, were: OcKJCULUM, near the left bank of the

Tiber; Xarnia and Inteuamna, on the banks of

tbe Nar; Amkkia and Carsulak, a few miles to

the Nt. oif Narnia; Tuder, on a hill on the left bank

ot the Tiber; Spoletium, in the hills which separate

tbe valley of the Maroggia from that of the Nar;

1 rkb.v, Mevania, Hispkllum, Fuloinium, and

AssrsiUM, all situated in or bordering on the broad

valley above mentioned; Arna and Tikkr.ni .m Ti-

..is. m in the npper valley of the Tiber, and lou-

virx in the mountains at a short distance from

it. Vkjuonica was probably situated at CivittUa

di Bene*M»ne, also in the valley of tbe Tiber. On

tiie Flauninian Way, exactly at the entrance of the

mountains, stood Forum Flaminii, and higher

up, on the same line of road, Nuceria, Tadinum,

and Hei.viiJ.uu.

2. On the E. of the central ridge of tbe Apennines,

bnt still high up among the mountains, were situated

Camerinum, near the sources of tbe Flusor; 1'ro-

lacjikum (Pioraco), near those of the Potentia;

Pitulum (fiofo), in the same valley; Matilica

and Attidium, both in the upper valley of the

Aeais; Sentinum, in a lateral branch of the same

valley; TiincfM and Suasa, both of them in the

valley of the Cesano; Cai.i.ks (Cngli), on the F'la-

minlan Way; Tifernum Mktaurknse and Ur-

binum Mktaurknse, both of them in the up|«r

valley of the Metaurus; F'oRi'M Sempronh (/'<i»-

tombrone), lower down in the same valley; Uhbi-

NUM Hohtense (Urbino), between tbe valleys of

the Metaurus and the Pisaurus; Sestiniim (Sutino),

near the sources of the hitter river; Pitinum Pi-

saurensk, probably at Piagnino in the same valley;

Sarsina, in the upper valley of the Sapis; and Mk-

vaniola, which is fixed by Cluvcrins, on the faith of

inscriptions discovered there, at Galeata, in the upper

valley of the Bedesis or Konco (Cluver. flat p. 623),

and is therefore the most northerly town that was

included in Umbria.

3. Along the coast of the Adriatic were the im­

portant towns of Skna Galuca, Fanum Fortukae,

Pisaukum, and Ariminum. To the above must be

added Aksis or Aksium (Jen), on the left bank of

the river uf the same name, and OsTRA, the ruins of

which are said to exist between the rivers Cesano and

Kujolo. (Abeken, Millel-Italien. p. 41.)

In addition to the above long list of towns, tho

position of which can be assigned with tolerable cer­

tainty, the following obscure names are enumerated

by Pliny among the towns or communities of Umbria

still existing in his time: the Casuentillani. Dola-

tes sumained Salentini, Forojulien>ea surnamed Con-

cubienses, F'orobrentani, Pelestini, Vindinates, and

Viventani. The above towns being totally un­

known, tbe correct form and orthography of the

names is for the most part uncertain. The same

is the case with several others which the same

writer enumerates as having in his day ceaned to

exist. (Plin. iii. 14. s. 19.) Strabo also mentions

a place called Larolum as being situated on the Fla-

minian Way, in the neighbourhood of Narnia and

Ocriculum (v. p. 227), which is otherwise wholly

unknown, and the name is probably corrupt.

Of the natural productions of Umbria the most

celebrated were its cattle, especially those of the val­

ley of the Clitumnus [Clitumnus] ; but iis moun­

tain tracts afforded also pasturage Ui flocks of sheep,

which were driven southwards as far as Metapontum

and Heraclca. (Varr. R. It. ii. 9. § 6.) The lower

portions of the country abounded in fruit-trees, vines,

and olives ; but when Propertius terms his native

Umbria " terns fertilis uberibus." this can be under­

stood only of the tracts on the W. of the Apennines,

of which he ia there speaking (Pn>pert. i. 22. 9), not

of the more extensive mountain regions.

The name of Umbria is still given to one of tho

provinces of the Papal States, of which Spvleto is

the capital; but this is merely an official designation,

tbe name having been wholly lost in the middle

ages, and being no longer in use as a popular ap­

pellation. [E. H. B.J

U.MBRO (Ombrone), a river of Elruria, and next

to the Arnus the most considerable in that country.

It ri.*es in the hills between Siena and A rezzo, and

4 r 3

