976

SICIMA.

SICI

mountains seem to have been somewhat vague and

fluctuating; but we may assign the mame of Xef-

TL'Nirs Mons to the chain which rises at Cape

Pelorus, and extends from thence to the neighbour-

hood of Tanromenium; while that of Mons Nkhuo-

DES seems to have been applied in a more general

sense to the whole northerly range extending from

near Tanromenium to the neighbourhood of Panor-

mus; and the HebarI MoNTEfl of Diodorus can be

no others than a part of the same range. (See the

respective articles.) But incomparably the most

important of the mountains of Sicily, and the most

striking physical feature of the whole island, is the

great volcanic mountain of Aetna, which rises on

the E. coast of the island, and attains an elevation

of 10.874 feet, while its base is not leas than 90

miles in circumference. It is wholly detached from

the mountains and hills which surround it, being

bounded on the N. by the river A cosines or Alcan­

tara, and the valley through which it flows, and on

the \V. and S. by the Symaethns, while on the E.

its streams of lava descend completely into the sea,

and constitute the line of coast for a distance of

near 30 miles. The rivers already mentioned con­

stitute (with trifling exceptions) the limits of the

volcanic district of Aetna, but volcanic formations

of older date, including beds of lava, scoriae, fltc, are

scattered uver a considerable extent of the SIC. por­

tion of the island, extending from the neighbourhood

of Patagonia to that of Pulazzoloy and eren to

Syracuse. These indeed belong to a much more

ancient epoch of volcanic action, and can never

have been in operation since the existence of man

upon the island. The extensive action of volcanic

fires upon Sicily was, however, observed by the

ancients, and is noticed by several writers. The

apparent connection between Aetna and the volcanoes

of tiie Aeolian Islands is mentioned by Strabo, and

the same author justly appeals to the craters of the

Palici, and to the numerous thermal springs through­

out the island, as proofs that the subterranean

agencies were widely diffused beneath its surface

(Strab. vi. pp. 274, 275).

Eew countries in Europe surpass Sicily in general

productiveness and fertility, lis advantages in this

respect are extolled by many - ancient writers.

Strabo tells us (vi. p. 273) that it was not inferior to

Italy in any kind of produce, and even surpassed it in

many. It was generally believed to be the native

country of wheat (Diod. v. 2), and it is certain that

it was not surpassed by any country either in the

abundance or quality of this production. It was

equally celebrated for the excellence of its honey

and its saffron, botli of which were extensively ex­

ported to Rome; as well as for its sheep and cattle,

and excellent breeds of horses, among which those

of Agrigentum seem to have been the most cele­

brated (Strab. I. c.\ Sil. ItaL xiv. 23; Vlrg. Aen.

iii. 704). There were indeed no extensive plains,

like those of Campania or Cisalpine Gaul; the largest

being that now called the Piano di Catania, extend­

ing along the banks of tlie Symaethus, and known

in ancient times as the Lkontini's or LaEBTKT-

GOMiua Campus. Hut the whole island was inter­

sected by numerous streams, and beautiful valleys;

and though a considerable part of its surface (as

already observed) was occupied either by mountains

or rocky hills, the slopes and underfalls of these

abound I'd in scenery of the most charming descrip­

tion, and were adapted for the growth of vines,

olives, and fruits of every description.

The climate of Sicily i

mediate between those of

The northern part of the

•etnbles the portion of I

immediately*in contact; 1

western parts present s

more southerly latitude,

arid appearance (at leaf

travellers), except in wint

ance also of the dwarf j

Linn.), a plant unknown

tends to give a peculiar i

Sicily. The climate of

certainly not considered t

and though at the preser

sutler severely from mala

believe that this would fc

increased population and

It is remarkable, indeed,

Italy, that frequently tin

considered the most unhe

occupied by flourishing

many cases the malaria

local causes, which mig

draining marshes or affor

oast waters.

rx h

The accounts of the

are more rational and c<

the case with such tradi

ously derived from that c

in historical times to be

Siculiot Sicf.ls (2i«f>

versally received represer

from the mainland, whe:

in the extreme southern

ditions and notices of th

Italy, and of their previ

tions, are, indeed, extre

discussed elsewhere [Si<

they were at one time set

■ola, and from thence p

be safely received as hist

bability also that they wi

their origin from the n

find in that part of Italy,

with the Oenotrians and

deed, the names of 2;*e

dared by many phtlolo£

There seems, therefore, li

or Siculi, may be regard*

the great Pelasgic race, w

times occupying the soul

this kindred origin will t

which we find the Sicela

language and civiJisatior

the island, at the san

abundant traces of their

people of Italy.

liut the Sicels, who

period the greater part o

were not, according toth

inhabitants. Tbucydiue

gratioti to a period onl]

settlement of the 6rst Gi

and Diodorus, without a

representing them as the

native population of the

first notices of Sicily alh

of gigantic men, of oj

