PHOENICIA. PHOENICIA. 60S*

»-r<- thai it m

m side H u alleged that Si Jon in styled in Scripture

L- rate ben of Canaan (Cn. xlix. 13), whilst

'tr» it aat mrationnl till the invasion of Palestine

i i±» larselitea. (Jotk. xix. 29.) But in the former

mmr* there is nothing to connect the person

■ ■ ■> lb* cur ; and the second argument is at best

n> -amative. It is further urged that the name of

m anas not race occur in Homer, though the

• •*n< art frequently mentioned; and in one pos­

er (Oaf. xiii. 285) Sidonia is used as the genera]

as* of f'h<«-rjicia. This, however, only shows that,

tke tune of Homer, Sidonia was the leading city,

■J cm* not prove that it was founded before Tyre.

:' same remark may be applied to the silence of

Thai Tyre was in existence, and most

ana n flourishing city in the time of Homer, is

le; since, as will be seen further on,

the colony of Gadeira, or Cadiz, not

.- mf-.tr the Trojan War; and many years of

-nrmal prosperity must have elapsed before  
i raoM have planted so distant a possession,

an, whs are not bound to historical accuracy, will

in preference to another merely

sonorous, or for some similar

(xvi. p. 756), in commenting

umstance of Homer's silence,

enly the poets who glorified

it the Phoenician colonists, both in Africa

Cave the preference to Tyre. This pas-

been cited in proof uf Strabo's own decision

rxatr af Sudan; but, from the ambiguous word-

«/ c nothing certain can be concluded. Movers

)LL p. 118) even construes it in favour of

I, bat it must be confessed that the opposite

t b rather strengthened by another passage

i *0) in which Strabo calls Sidon the metropolis

u Phoenicians (iV MTrpoVo\u' auric). On

aiier hand, it mar be remarked, that all the

; sAftenl Phoenician traditions relate to Tyre,

»< to Sidon; that Tyre is called ficcrtpa ♦oi-

r i M-,~i_<r the epigrammatist (Anth. Grate.

- ;•}). who lived before the time of Strabo;

■ rnrt-iption to the same effect is found on a

af AaCanehskS IV., B. c. 175—164 (Gesen.

i. 262); and that the later Roman

tanimously to have re­

nt tan claim of Tyre to superior antiquity as

snanc Thus the emperor Hadrian settled the

ok .h«p«x*> in favour of that city (Suidas, s. v.

»t Ttaaos ). and other testimonies will be found

nava* (iii. 16X tlpian (Dig. tit. xxv.), and

ansa (*. Forpkjr. p. 7, ed. Wytt) It may

W rvoarkctl that if the Phoenicians came from

GmSt, the nam* of Tyre shows that it

of their earliest settlements on

This dispute, however, was not

sal |s Tjtw and Sidon, and Byblus snd Berytus

stagnant no be regarded as the oldest of the

* haw ever this may be, it seems certain tint  
atvet of the Phoenician settlements in Syria,

■ wan. perhaps. Hamath or Kpiphania on the

ha, raeiihil the conquest of Canaan by the

is usually placed in the year

of Joshua into Canaan

in the history of

In order to oppose his progress,

organised a confederacy of the

(V.m*. it 10.) But the allies

th great slaughter. Ha*or was

iil (•entrsreal, aud the territory of the cou-

c u

«= af

federate kings, with the exception of a few fortresses,

fell into the power of the Israelites. The defeated

host was pursued as far as Sidon; but neither that

nor any other town of Phoenicia, properly so called,

fell into the hsnds of the Jews, nor on the whole

does the expedition of Joshua seem to huve had

much effect on its political condition. Yet there

was a constant succession of hostilities between the

Phoenicians and some of the Jewish tribes; and in

the book of Judges (x. 12) we find the Sidonians

mentioned among the oppressors of Israel.

Sidon, then, must have early risen to he a power-

fill kingdom, as may indeed he also inferred from

the Homeric poems, in which its trade and manufac­

tures are frequently alluded to. Yet a year before

the capture of Troy, the Sidonians were defeated by

the king of Ascalon, and they were obliged to take

refuge—or at all events a great proportion of them

—at Tyre. (Justin, xviii. 3.) We are ignorant

how this conquest was effected. The name of

Ascalon probably represents the whole pentapolis of

Philistia; and we know that shortly after this event

the Philistines were powerful enough to rednce the

kingdom of Israel to the condition of a tributary,

and to retain it as such till the time of David.

Justin, in the passage just cited, speaks of Tyre as

founded by the Sidonians (condidernnt) on this oc­

casion. This expression, however, by no means

implies * first foundation, since in the next chapter

he again uses the same word to denote the restora­

tion of Tyre by Alexander the Great. It has been

already said, as will appear at greater length in the

account of the Phoenician colonies, that Tyre must

have been a city of considerable importance before

this period. The account of Justin is corroborate*!

by Josephus, who, in allusion no doubt to the same

event, places the foundation of Tyre 240 years before

that of Solomon's temple. (Ant. viii. 3.) If Justin

followed the computation of the Parian marble, the

fall of Troy took place in the year 1209 n. cj and

if the disputed date of Solomon's temple be fixed at

969 B. c, the aera adopted by Movers (Phon. ii.

pt. i. p. 149), then 969 + 240=1209. Josephus,

in the passage cited, uses the word ofrnirij, "a

dwelling in," and could no more have .meant the

original foundation of Tyre than Justin, since that

city is mentioned in the Old Testament as in exist­

ence two centuries and a half before the building of

the temple.

l-'rom the period of the Sidonian migration, Tyre

must be regarded as the head of the Phoenician

nation. During the headship of Sidon, the history

of Phoenicia is mythical. Phoenix, who is repre­

sented as the father of Cadmus and Europa, is a

mere personification of the country; I Wins, the first

king, is the god Baal; and Agenor, the reputed

founder both of Tyre and Sidon, is nothing but a

Greek epithet, perhaps of Hercules. The history of

Tyre also, befnre the age of Solomon, is unconnected.

Solomou's relations with Hiram, king of Tyre, led

Josephus to search the Tyrian histories of Dius and

Menander. Hiram succeeded Abibal; and from

this time to the foundation of Carthage there is a

regular succession of dates and reigns.

Tyre was in fact a double city, the original town

being on the continent, and the new one on an island

about half a mile from the shore. When the latter

was founded, the original city obtained the name ot

Palac-Tyrus, or Old Tyre. The island, however,

was proluibly used as a naval station from the very

i earliest times, and as a place consecrated to the

u It

