910 SARDINIA. SARDINIA.

sent as proconsul to the island, and after two years

of continuous warfare lie earned the distinction of a

triumph, a sufficient proof of the formidable cha­

racter of the insurrection. (Eutrop. iv. 25; Ruf.

Fest. 4.) Tliis is the last time we hear of any war

of importance in Sardinia; but even in the time of

Strabo the mountaineers were in the habit of plun­

dering the inhabitants of the more fertile districts,

and the Roman praetors in vain endeavoured to

check their depredations. (Strab. v. p. 225.)

The administration of the province was entrusted

throughout the period of the Republic to a praetor

or propraetor. Its general system was the same as

that of the other provinces; but Sardinia was in some

respects one of the least favoured of all. In the

time of Cicero it did not contain a single free or

allied city (civitan fuederata) (Cic. pro Scaur. §

44): the wlmle province was regarded as conquered

land, and hence the inhabitants in all cases paid

the tenth part of their corn in kind, as well as a

itipewlium or annual contribution in money. (Cic.

pro Balb. 18; Liv. xxiii. 41.) From the great fer­

tility of the island in corn, the former contribution

became one of the most important resources of the

Roman state, and before the ckm of the Republic we

find Sardinia, Sicily, and Africa alluded, to as the

"tria frumentaria subsidia reipublicjie.'' (Cic. pro

l*g. Monti, 12; Yarr. H. H. ii. I'r. § 3; Valerius

Maximua also terms them "bcnignissimae urbis

nostrae nutrices,'' vii. 6. § 1.) For this reason, as

soon as Foinpeius was appointed to the command

against the pirates, one of his first cares was to pro­

tect the coasts of these three provinces. (Cic. /. c.)

Among the eminent persons who at different times

tilled the office of praetor or propraetor in Sardinia,

may be mentioned the elder Cato in u. c 198 (Liv.

xxxii. 8, 27); Q. Antoinus iialbus, who was ap­

pointed by Mariu to the government of the island,

but was defeated and killed by L. 1'hilippus, the le­

gate of Sulla, b.c. 82 (Liv. Epit. Ixxxvi.); M,

Atius Balbus, the grandfather of Augustus, who was

praetor in b. c. 62, and struck a coin with the head of

Sardus Fater, which is remarkable as the only one

belonging to, or connected with, the island [Biogr,

Diet. Vol. I. p. 455] ; and M. Aemilius Scaurus, who

was praetor in b, 0. 53, and was accused by the

Sardinians of oppression and peculation in his govern­

ment, but was defended by Cicero in an oration of

which some fragments are still extant, which throw

an important light on the condition and adminis­

tration of the island. (Cic. pro Scaur, ed. Orell.;

Ascon. in Scaur.)

In b. c. 46 the island was visited by Caesar on

his return from Africa, and the Sulcitani severely

punished for the support they had given to Nasidius,

the admiral of Fompcy. (Hirt. B. Afr. 98.) The

citizens of Caralis, on the contrary, had shown their

ze:tl in the cause of Caesar by expelling M. Cotta,

who had been left by Fompey in charge of the is­

land. (Caes. B. C. i. 30.) Sardinia was afterwards

occupied by Menodorus, the lieutenant of Sextus

Pompeius, and was one of the provinces which was

assigned to the latter by the treaty of Misenum,

b. c. 39; but it was subsequently betrayed by Meno­

dorus himself into the hands of Octavian. (Dion

Cass, xlviii. 30, 36, 45; Appian, B. C. v. 56, 66,

72, 80.) It was probably for some services rendered

on one or other of these occasions that the citizens

ot Caralis were rewarded by obtaining the rights of

Roman citizens, a privilege apparently conferred on

them by Augustus. (" Caralitani civium Ruma-

nornm," Plin. iiL 7. s. 13.) This was a fci iin

of Fliny the only privileged town in the olaad: Mt

a Roman colony had been planted in tie emswK

at a place called Turria Libysoou. (Pin. L t)

Two other colonies were established in the aaad a

a later period (probably under HadrncV m u

Usellis, on the W. coast, the otiur ml Corns, (hi

iii. 3. § 2; Zumpt, de CoL p. 410.)

Under the Roman Empire we hear bet fob a*

Sardinia, which continued to be noted darfi i

its abundant supply of corn, and ftc thee

healthiness of its climate. In addition te the I

disadvantage, it suffered severely, as already i

tioned, from the perpetual incursions of tb* «ii

mountain tribes, whose depredations the Eamaig

vernors were unable to repress. (Smb. t. a,l~*

With the view of checking these marauder*, i

determined in the reign of Tiberius to fttatt

the island a body of 4000 Jew* and Egyptian, 1

it was observed, would be little loss if thr» i

perish from the climate. (Tac Ann. ii. 85.)

have no account of the success of this i

but it would seem that all the intahttratt rf i

island were gradually brought under the 1

vemment, as at the present day even tl

mountaineers of the interior speak a dialer* <f pA^j

Latin origin. (De la Marmora, Von. ea Su4-1

pp. 198, 202.) It is clear also from tbe i

roads given in the Itineraries, as well is I

remains of them still existing, and the rains a* a^

ducts and other ancient buildings still \

the island must have enjoyed

of prosperity under tbe Roman Empire,

exertions were repeatedly made for its

ment. At the same time it was freqotc'Jw

as a place of exile for political offenders, mi

who had given umbrage to the emperors. (T«

xiv. 62, xvi. 9, 17; Dion Casa. M.S7?!

32.) Its great importance to Borne dewa 1

latest period of the Kmpire, as one of the |

sources from which the capital was eapfAad 1

corn, is attested by many writers, sa that i"J

length it was occupied by the Vandals, it i

says a contemporary writer, aa if the \

the city had been cut off. (FmdenL. an*. I

ii 942; Salvian. de Provid, vi)

During tbe greater part of the

Sardinia continued to be united with

one province: this was one of tboae i

senate in the division under Augustus (C

liii. 12); it was therefore under the ronrn

a magistrate styled proconsul; bat aecawa

special governor was sent thither by tbe esap

the repression of the plundering native*.:

28; Orell. Inter. 74, 2377.) Afar the 1

Constant ine, Sardinia and Corsica formed t*

rate provinces, and had each its own ga**rai ,

bore the title of Fraeses, and was defiataj

Vitarius Urbis Romae. (A'oL Dijm. ii. p. 44; I

ing, ad he.; Ruf. Fest. 4.) It was not till J

that Sardinia was wrested from the I

Genseric, kinc of the Vandals: i

for a time by Mareellianus, it soon fell i

hands of the barbarians, to wtxw it I

subject till tbe fall of the Vandal

Africa, when Cyrillus recovered posw

island for Justinian, a. d. 534. (Frorop. A 1

10, 11, ii. 5.) It was again

Gothic king TotQa in a. ix. 551 i I i. /. '.. ■

but was recovered by Xarsea after the

that monarch, and seems from this parsed 1

