PHBYGIA. PHUYGIA.

Immt mm aotised the greatest influence upon

3» fur out only wu tbeir political im-

}rx« ttiimei but their national independence

™ U. mi uW language and religion were so

tajrj ifcud that it ia scarcely possible to sepa­

ri* fom^i rtanenta from what ia original and

i.-nm In the north also the Phrygians were

us prsagi, for the same Thracians who had

tn tan act of Europe, also invaded Asia; for

iiiafti Uoiier oata Dot distinctly mention Thra-

am a iiia, yet. in the historical ages, they occti-

|ri •> eault (nut from the Hellespont to Hera-

akt tl» names of Thyni, Bitbyni, and Mari-

asVa (Caep. Herod, vii. 75.) The conflicts

affvt tin ancient Thrygiana and the Thracians

I to ia several legends. Thus king Midas

'*beo the Treves ravaged Asia Minor

• Bra I'lphugonia and Cilicia (Strab. i. p. 61);

'J* Maraadrra are described as engaged in a war

Kin* tie Mnkim and Bebryces, in which Mygdon,

■t bar of tbt Utter, wms slain. (Apollod. i. 9. §

Ha 1 j 9; Apollon. Rhod. ii. 752, 780, 786,

a* a»*ciol; Tieta. CkiL iii. 808, Ac.) The

re ^rul daring which the Phrygians are said to

v* oecued the supremacy at se.i, which lasted

• fmtj-tn, and, according to others, only five

an. ud which is assigned to the beginning of the

*■ "ttury a. c, ia probably connected with that  
f a 'tin the Phrygians were engaged in per-

"ai»an(Diod. vii.'l3; Syncett p. 181)i and it

w km been about the same time that Phrygians

m .Scamaoder and from Troy migrated to

■V (raos, r. 25. § 6.)

■1 n» • uJatary circumstance tliat the numerous

*• aktas an the cmsl of Asia Minor counter-

• tit- rpreading influence of the Semitic race;

III la* ttrragth of the Phrygians was broken;

n rmi aiibdrswu from ail quarters to the cen-

■ r** of the peninsula, and Croesus incorpo-

»tiro with his own empire. During the con-

■» °f Cvraa, Greater and Lesser Phrygia are

arr s»tinpii.bed (Xenoph. Cyrop. i. 5. § 3, vi.

f lo. ra. 4. § 16, viii. 6. § 7), the former being

■*« »ya satrap (ii. 1. § 5), and the latter,

I "jM Phrygia on the Hellespont, by a king.

tfc uring thus reached the period of authentic

*T »* at enabled to tarn our attention to tbe  
■** the Phrygians, and the country which

«^-raWy inhabited. As to the name Phryges,

W firyrat. Briers. Breuci, Bebryces, and Be-

are oaly diSereiit forms, we are informed

■yoaas (a, w. apiytt) that in the language of

^Krci Lydiana (that is, Maeonians) it signified

The nation bearing this name appears

*r*i' <i a eery peaceable disposition, and un-

• "«>t (reign impressions and influences.

tam> many traditions and legends points to

**< «■ heroic period in their hUtory, but all

• ■'—ii liil mystic and fantastic character,

•a* of their early history is connected with

■*"» Mian and Gordius- After the conquest

** tkxstj by Persia, the Phrygians are gene-

=»i-jijed only with contempt, and the Phry-

*Lca» and Manes were given to slaves.  
[f>W J7; Curt. rL 11; Strab. vii. p. 304.)

"■'iiflimmi increased in consequence of their

■• <arfr*'Hiri. Agrimltnre was their chief

pmm; mi whoever killed an ox or stole agri-

■a rri)blams was pot to death. (Nicol.

•t- r !«, et Orelli.) Gordius, their king, is

said to have been called from the plough to the

throne. (Arrian, A nab. ii. 3. § 1; Justin, xii. 7.)

Pliny (vii. 6) calls the biga an invention of the

Phrygians. Great care also was bestowed upon the

cultivation of the vine; and commerce flourished

among them in the very earliest times, as we must

infer from their well-built towns mentioned by Homer

(/£ iii. 400). The foundation of all their great

towns, which were at the same time commercial

emporia, belongs to the mythical ages, as, e. g., Pes-

sinus, Gordium, Celaenae, and Apamea. The reli­

gious ideas of the Phrygians are of great interest

and importance, and appear to have exercised a

greater influence upon the mythology of the Greeks

than is commonly supposed, for many a mysterious

tradition or legend current among the Greeks must

be traced to Phrygia, and can be explained only by

a reference to that country. Truly Phrygian divini­

ties were Cybele (Khea or Agdistis), and Sabazius,

the Phrygian name for Dionysus. (Strab. x. p.

470, &c.) With the worship of these deities were

connected the celebrated orgiastic rites, accompanied

by wild music and dances, which wero subsequently

introduced among the Greeks. Other less important

divinities of Phrygian origin were Olympus, Hyag-

nis, Lityerges, and Marsyas. It also deserves to be

noticed that the Phrygians never took or exacted an

oath. (Nicol. Damage, p. 148.) But all that we

hear of the religion of the Phrygians during the his­

torical times appears to show that it was a mixture

of their own original form of worship, with the less

pure rites introduced by the Syro-Phoenician tribes.

The once extensive territory inhabited by the

Phrygians, had been limited, as was observed above,

at the time of the Persian dominion, to Lk-shkk

Piikygia, on the Hellespont, and Ghrater Phry­

gia. It is almost impossible accurately to define the

boundaries of the former; according to Scylax (p.

35; comp. Pomp. Mela, i. 19) it extended along the

const of the Hellespont from the river Cins to Sestus;

but it certainly embraced Troas likewise, for Pto­

lemy marks the two countries as identical. To­

wards the interior of the peninsula the boundaries

are not known at all, but politically as a province it

bordered in the east on Bithynia and Great Phrygia,

and in the south on Lydia. Grkat Phrygia

formed the central country of Asia Minor, extending

from east to west about 40 geographical miles, and

from south to north about 35. It was boutided in

the north by Bithynia and Paphlagonia, and in the

east by Cappadocia and Lycaonia, the river Hnlys

forming the boundary. (Herod, v. 52.) The

southern frontier towards Pisidia and Cilicia was

formed by Mount Taurus; in the west Mounts

Tmolus and Messogis extend to the western ex­

tremity of Mount Taurus; but it is almost impossible

to define the boundary line towards Mysia, Lydia,

and Caria. the nationalities not being distinctly

marked, and the Komans having intentionally obli­

terated the ancient landmarks. (Strab. xii. p. 564,

xiii. p. 629.) The most important part in the

north of Phrygia was the fertile valley of the San-

garius, where Phrygians lived in the time of Homer

(//. iii. 187, xvi. 719), and where some of their

most important cities were situated. Iconium, the

easternmost city of Phrygia, was situated in a fertile

district; but the country to the north-west of it, with

the salt lake Tntta, was barren and cold, forming a

high plateau, which was only fit for pasture, and

sutfered from frequent droughts. Tlio southern

portion of Phrygia, surrounded by Mount Taurus, a

