416 NEMADSUS. NEMEA.

duct the waters of the springs of the Eure and A kan

near Uzee, were brought toNemausus. The river Gar­

den, the ancient Vardo, is deep just above the aque­

duct. The channel is sunk between rugged rocks,

on which scattered shrubs grow. The river rises in

the Cfaensjev, and is subject to Hoods, which would

have destroyed a less solid structure than this

Roman bridge. The bridge is built where the valley

is contracted by the rocks, and in its ordinary state

all the water passes under one arch. The best view

of the bridge is from tho side above it. The other

side is disfigured by a modern structure of the same

dimensions as the lower range of arches; it is a

bridge attached to the lower arches of the Roman

bridge, and is used for the passage of carts and

horses over the Garden.

There are three tiers of arches. The lowest tier

consists of six arches; that under which the water

flows is the largest. The width of this arch is said

to be about 50 Knglish feet, and the height from

the surface of the water is about 65 feet. The

second tier contains eleven arches, Bix of which cor­

respond to those below, but they appear to be wider,

and the piers are not so thick as those of the lowest

tier. The height of the second tier is said to be

about 64 feet; but some of these dimensions may

not be very accurate. The third tier has thirty-five

arches, or thereabouts, making a length, at it is

said, of about 870 English feet. It is about S«

feet high to the top of the great slabs of stone

which cover it. These slabs lie across the ch*ni<l

in which the water was conveyed over the river,

and they project a little so as to form a conuoe.

The whole height of the three tiers, if the several

dimensions arc correctly given, is about 155 feet.

It is generally said that the bridge is entirvit

built of stones, without mortar or cement. The

stones of the two lower tiers are without cement;

but the arches of the highest tier, which are built

of much smaller stones, are cemented. At the

north end of the aqueduct the highest tier of arches

and the water channel are higher than tile groumd

on which the aqueduct abuts, and there moat have

been a continuation of small arches along the top of

this hill; but there arc no traces of them, at least

near the bridge. On the opposite or sooth side the

aqueduct abuts against the hill, which it higher

than tho level of the channel. There is no trace of

the hill having been pierced; and an intelligent

man, who lives near the bridge, says that the

aqueduct was carried round the hill, and that it

pierced another hill further on, where the tasssal

still exists.

riOMAS AQI.'EDUCT SEAR XF.MAISLS, now Called TTIK POST DU OARD.

The stone of this bridge is a yellowish colour.

Seen under the sun from the west side, the bridge

has a brightish yellow tint, with patches of dark

colour, owing to tho weather. The stone in the

highest tier is a concretion of shells and sand, and

that in the lower tiers appears to be the same. In

the stones in the highest tier there arc halves of a

bivalve shell completely preserved. The stone also

oontains bits of rough quartzose rock, and many

small rounded pebbles. In the floods the Garden

rises 30 feet above its ordinary level, and the

water will tlien pass nnder all the arches of the

lowest tier. The piers of this tier show some marks

of being worn by the water. But the bridge is still

solid and strong, a magnificent monument of the

grandeur of Roman conceptions, and of the boldness

of their execution.

There are many works which treat of the an­

tiquities of .V/.m .-. Some arc quoted and extracts

from them are printed in the Guide du Voyageur,

par Richard and E. Hocquart. [G. L.]

M. Ml. \ (^ Nip/a, Ion. NVm'rj: Adj. N-...i.*i.

Ntpcfiuos, Ncmeaeus), the name of a valley in tho

territory of Cleonae, where Hercules slew the Ne-

mean lion, and where the Ncmean games were

celebrated every other year. It is described by

Strabo as situated between Cleonae and Phlius

(viii. p. 377). The valley lies in a direction

nearly north and south, and is about two or three

miles long, and from half to three quarters of a mile

in breadth. It is shut in on every side by moun­

tains, and is hence called by Pindar a deep rale

(fiadinrt&os. Son. iii. 18.) There is a rrmarkaSie

mountain on the NE., called in ancient times

ArKSAs ('Airjimj), now Fuka, nearly 3000 fart

high, with a flat summit, which is visible from Arc*

and Corinth. On this mountain Perseus is said U

have first sacrificed to Zeus Apesantius. (Pans. u.

15. § 3; Steph. B. f. r. 'AsrsVal; Stat. 7"**',. iii.

460, seq.) Theocritus gives Nemea the epithet of

"well-watered" (<60Spov Nf jioji x*V<". Thaw,

xxv. 182). Several rivulets descend from the sar-

rounding mountains, which collect in the plain, and

form a river, which flows northward throach the

ridges of Apesas, and falls into the Corinthian gulf,

forming in the lower part of its source the boundary

between the territories of Sicyon and Corinth. Tail

river also bore the name of Nemea (Strab. via.

p. 382; Diod. xiv. 83; Liv. xxxiii. 15); but as it

was dependent for its supply of water upna the

season of the year, it was sometimes called the Xe-

mean Cbaradra. (Aesch. de FaU. Leg. J 16*. ed.

Bokker; i XapdJpo, Xen. Hell. iv. 8. $ 15.) The

mountains, which enclose the valley, have arreral

natural caverns, one of which, at the distance af IS

stadia from the sacred grove of Nemea, and na> the

road named Tretus, from the latter place to Myreasat,

was pointed out as the cave of the Ncmean baa.

(Paus. ii. 15. § 2.)

The name ol Nemea was strictly applied la th*

sacred grove in which the games were celrbratni.

Like Olympia and the sanctuary at the Corintluaa

