PHOCUSAE.

605 PHOENICIA.

s «nd the Boeotian frontier, D.ui.ts,

iunn, Tbachu. On Mount Parnassus, Ly-

*iia, Daunt, Cbissa, Axemoreia. Cypakis-  
la. Wat of Panaaeua. and in the neighbourhood

ti- Corinthian gulf from N. to S„ Cirriia, the

rt-urwn of Crista and Delphi, CliU'His, Medeox,

RI-OAHEU, A.VTK'YRA. AmBKYSCS. MaKA-

ita. Sims, Piilygosiim, Boua with its port

Iran. (DodweJl, Clatrical Tour, vol. i. p. 155,

r. Leake, S -rtl.rm Greece, vol. ii. p. 69, seq.)

coia or mocis.

fHiXIU-SAE, PHUCUSSAE (♦»«w<u, PtoL

: ,"5 ; +wro£ffffai, Athen. i. p. 30, d.; Hesych.

. Steps. B.), islands lying off Zephyrium in

-iiTa(W«r«i Labtit), wlu'ch theCoast-describer  
■fans, $ SO) calls Delpiiises. [K. It. J.]

HotfiATAE, PHOEBA'TIS. [Dassaue-

LBLA. [Hii-iiia.]

i- -LSI C'E (♦ou/iaTi), a city of Chaonia in

raw ataated a little inland north of Buthrotum

■e. rn_ p. 324), upon a river, the ancient name

saa a nut recorded. It is described by Polybius,

. • 2 to, as Use strongest, most powerful, and

ac x toe cxtwa of Epeirus. (Polyb. ii. 5, 8.)

at fear it was captured by a party of Iilyrians,

an ry some Gallic mercenaries; and the Epirots,

a- uarcbed to the rescue of the place, were

•ami by a sally of the Iilyrians from the city,

am a> the root with great slaughter. (Polyb.

rhomce continued to be an important city,

t was hare that a treaty of peace was negotiated

an Ptibp and the Komans towards the close of

■bad Panic War, B. c. 204. (Liv. xxix. 12;

a axoi. X7.) Pbuenice appears to have escaped

a> of the* other Epeirot cities, when tfiey were

jaai by order of the senate, through the influ-

af Caarena, one of its citizens. (Polyb. xxxiL

i h a ■•rationed by Ptolemy (iii. 14. § 7) and

■am (p. ($2), and was restored by Justinian,

■a ai Ardif. 1.) Procopios says that it

Baaed in a low spot, surrounded by marshes,

(as Jattiaian built a citadel upon a neigh-

ar, af The remains of the ancient city are

tanas a till which still bears the name of

* Tan entire bill was surrounded by Hellenic  
th-eastern extremity was the

n length, some of the walls of

from 12 to 20 feet in height,

middle of the height is the cm*

Large theatre, the only remains

1 piece of rough wail, which en-

tbe upper seats; at the bottom,

af the scene, is a small circular found-

of a town of a later date.

ft gsn, si— north western end of the citadel

teaasna af a Hot nan construction, built in

- (Leake Sorthern Greece, vol. i.

era

KPCIA, a

tar k. by

on the coast of Syria,

I. Name.

Its Greek name was ♦oiWxn (Horn. Oil. iv. 83;

Herod, iii. 5; Thnryd. ii. 69; Strab. p. 756: Ptol.

v. 15. § 21, &c), which in the best Latin writers is

literally rendered Phoenice (Cic. Acad. ii. 20; Tac.

//. v. 6; Mela, i. 12; Plin. v. 13, &c), and in later

authors Phoenicia (Serv. ad Virg. Aen. i. 446; Mart.

Capell. vi. 219, &c), and once in a 6uspected passago

of Cicero, (fin. iv. 20.) The latter form has,

however, prevailed among the moderns. By the

Phoenicians themselves, and by the Israelites, their

land was called Canaan, or Chna; an appellation

which embraced the whole district between the

river Jordan and the Mediterranean. In Genesis

the name of Canaan ocenrs only as that of a per­

son, and the country is described as "the land of

Canaan." In the tenth chapter of that book the

following tribes are mentioned; the Arvadites,

Sinites, Arkites, and Zeuiarites, whose sites may be

identified with Aradns, Sinna, Area, and Simyra;

whilst the name of Sidon, described as the firstborn

of Canaan, marks one of the most important of the

Phoenician towns. Tho abbreviated form Chna

(XfS) occurs in a fragment of Hecataeus (Fragm.

llistor. Graec. p. 17, Paris, 1841), and in Ste­

phanos Byzantinns («. c.): and the translation of

Sanconiatho by Philo, quoted by Eusebius (Praejj.

Erang. i. p. 87, ed. Gaisford) records the change of

this appellation into Phoenix. The Septuagint fre­

quently renders the Hebrew Canaan and Canaanite

by Phoenicia and Phoenician. In Hebrew, Chna or

Canaan signifies a low or flat land, from W3, "tobs

low," in allusion to the low land of the coast. Its

Greek name ♦of»'i{ has been variously deduced from

the brother of Cadmus, from the palm-tree, from the

purple or blood-red dye. (potv6s, which formed tho

staple of Phoenician commerce, and from tho Red

Sea, or Mare Erythraean), where the Phoenicians

are supposed to have originally dwelt. (Steph. Ii.

■■. v.; Sil. Ital. i. 89; Hesych. ». r. Qotvdv • Ach.

Tatius, ii. 4; Strab. i. p. 42, &c.) Of all these

etymologies the second is the most probable, as it

accords with the practice of antiquity in many other

instances.

II. Physical Geography.

The boundaries of Phoenicia arc not very clearly

laid down in ancient writers. The Mediterranean

sea on the W. and Lebanon on the E. form natural

limits; but on tho N. and S. they are variously

fixed. According to Herodotus the N. boundary of

Phoenicia was tho bay of Myriandrus, whilst on the

5. it terminated a little below Mount Camiel, or

where the territory of Judaea touched the sea (iu.

6, iv. 38. vii. 89). Strabo makes it extend from

Orthosis on the N., to Pelusium in Egypt on the

S. (xvi. pp. 753, 756). But Phoenicia, considered

as a political confederation, neither reached so far

N. as the lioundary of Herodotus, nor so far S. as

that of Strabo. Myriandrus was indeed inltabiteil

by Phoenicians; but it appears to have been only

a colony, and was separated from Phoenicia, pro­

perly so called, by an intervening tract of the Syrian

coast. (Xcnoph. AmU>. i. 4. § 6.) The more accu­

rate boundaries of Phoenicia, and which will be

adopted here, are those laid down by Pliny (v. 17),

which include it between Aradus on the N., and the

river Chorseas or Crocodilon on the S. The same

limits are given in Ptolemy (v. 15. § 4), except

