BOMA. ROMA. 725

rxat (be 10th Regio, or Palatinm, marks the

w w full taking the reverse direction of

hlfoumd kjT«citas: "Continet casam Romuli,

Mine llttni Ileum et Apollinia Rhamnusii, Penta-

ft us, ilarnm Aufustinianam et Tiberiannm, Au-

rnunuti, irwn Palatinam, aeiiem Jovis Victoria,

cxisn I/kjow, Curiam Veterem, Fortunam Respici-

aVo, Srptizonium I>ivi Severi, Victoriam Gcrmani-

tatL-t, LupffcaL" The Curiae Veteres are here

kttunai ia the singular nnmber; but there is some

■tan; fa this deviation. Thus Ovid (F<ul. iii.

I>)ajri?—

'Jicoi tone reps posita viret arbore Phoebi j

An'.t tuaa tit idem, Curia prUca, fores,"

a I'rUca is identified with the Curiae

'nrm bribe following passage in Macrobius: —

L&a quoque ingrediente mense tarn in Regia

aniirpt slope naminum domibus, laureae veteres

mi urn mutabantnr." (Sat. i. 12.) Now, in order

i fr'rraiat the precise situation of theCuria Vet us of

b- Suiiiu, it must be borne in mind tliat the " Donius

■twain*,' or palace of Augustus, occupied a

■ •.table partion of the NK. side of the Palatine,

crejiaj at the JJ. corner, as will be shown in

ana; the topography of the later city, and end-

r ifvbt^l; opposite to the arch of Titus, where

■ 011001 was situated. Proceeding eastward,

«/ uie same side of the hill, we find enumerated

'' . -v.. r u-ii and Area Palatina. Then follows

• trrj«» of Jupiter Victor, which we must not

««H is Becker does (//<i« p. 100, cf. p. 422,

> Me Preller, Htffionrn, p. 186), with that

'later Stator, since the latter, according to the

ay rather more northwards in the 4th

T> ad probahl; on or near the Summa Sacra

a. ill! cf Jupiter Victor, then, must have lain

£ «f the palace, and, as there is but a short

** an ob this side of the hill, it is probuble that

> t>mm Mollis must be placed at least at its

b*» XL angle, h* not on the side facing the

afca. The Curia Yet us, of course, lay more to

>&,taa perhaps towards the middle of the E.

»ef the Palatine. Its site near the temple (or

talaf Furtuna Revpiciens is confirmed by the

a*''.'epiulma, which mentions in the 10th Regio

"■faaCuriarum" near to another of Fortuna

. (Grater, Inter, cel.) The fourth point

by Tacit us — the Aedes Lamm— lay on

■ Sacra Via, and therefore at about the

■*> * the SE. side of the Palatine hilL (" Aedem

«■ ia Sauna Sacra Via," Man. Ancyr. j " Ancus

(Wauatit) in Summa Sacra Via, ubi aedes

■* Sohn. i. 24.) At this point the historian

ha deacription of the poinoerium of Romulus,

1 P^eeais to say that the forum and Capitol

* '-end to have been added to the city not by  
E March but by Titan Tatius. Hence he is

■pd rah having about a third of the poinoerium

and, in order to remedy this defect,

(* Mwrit, <fc p. 14, Ifandb. p. 102), not

-ne the atactica of other critics and editors,  
>•"» *• alter the punctuation of the passage, and

*■* * tarn ad saoellum Larum forumque Ro-  
< Capit'iliain non a Komulo," &c. But in

is gamed by this proceeding — only the

K 'paw trooi the arch of Titus to the N. point

Pakliae, whilst the remaining part of the

> tnm tbeace to the Forum Buariuin still remains

-r-'ind. Bat what U worse, even this little is  
^ *: the catenae of truth ; since, strictly apeak-

ing, a line drawn from the Afdes Larnm to the forum

would include the temple of Vesta (£. Maria Lib*-

ratrice), which, as we learn from Dionysius (ii. 65),

lay outside the walls of Romulus. Moreover, ac­

cording to the emended punctuation, it might be

doubtful whether Tacitus meant that the forum was

included in the Romulean city, or not; and it was

apparently to obviate this objection that Becker

proposed to insert Aoc before et (hoc et Capitoliurn).

But these are liberties which sober criticism can

hardly allow with the text of Buch a writer. Tacitus

was not speaking like a common topographer or

regionary, who is obliged to identify with painful

accuracy every step as he proceeds. It is more con­

sistent with his sententious style that, having car­

ried the line thus far,he left his readers to complete

it from the rough indication —which at the same

time conveyed an important historical fact — that

the forum and Capitol, which skirted at some dis­

tance the northern angle of the hill, were added by

Tatius, and lay therefore outside the walls of Ro­

mulus. His readers could not err. It was well

known that the original Rome was square; and,

having indicated the middle point in each of the

sides, he might have been charged with dulness had

he written, " turn ad sacellum Lamm, inde ad forum

PLAN OF THE ROMULEAS CITT

eg

A. Mont Palatinut.

B. B. Mont Capitolinut.

C. Colli* Uuirinalii.

D. Mont Avrntinu<.«

K. Forum Romanura.

a a. Velia.

b. Inter duos Lucos.

c. Germalut.

dd. Clivut Capitolinui

ece. Sacra Via.

/. Summa Sacra Via.

Nova Via.

Cllvtit Victoria*.

1. Porta Janualii.

3. Porta Car mental U.

3. Sacellum I.arum.

4. Porta MuiJionis.

8. Porta Romanula.

6. Lupercal.

7. Ara Contl.

8. Porta Ferentlna?

9. Curiae Veteres.

3 A 3

