SOMA. ROMA. 845

rio/r to this period, plays were performed in

i aitc thauns, erected lor the occasion. Some of

jew limporarj buildings were constructed with

xaiapiit magnificence, especially that of M.

iiua Scaurus in n. c. 59, a description of which

ipnsbjPliny (xxxvi. 24.8. 7). An attempt,

j ilitli »e hare before alloded, was indeed made

■itf cflbor Cassius, b. c. 154, to erect a stone

jaln mr the Lupercal, which wag defeated by

U ririd oonlity of Scipio Kasica (Veil. Pat. i.

I, ViL Max. ii. 4. 5 2; Liv. F.piL xlviii.; Oros. iv.

:A i<oi deal of tins old Roman feeling remained

I taw tine of l'ompey; and in order to overcome, or

tar u mde it, he dedicated a temple to Venus

mm do the summit of his theatre, to which

• no of seats appeared to form an ascent (Tac.

m. nr. JO: Tert. oV Sptct. 10; Plin. viii.

. GeHiu places the dedication of the theatre in

> lii.il cufouUhip of Pumpey, w hich is at variance

.3 tot other authorities (A'. A. x. 1). We have

tea it* its situation in a preceding section, and

il nfcf the reader who desires any further in-

bsimi on this head to Canina (Indicaz. p. 368,

hat bestowed mnch labour in investigating

vr.Ma (I this building. There is great dis-

aavr in the accounts of the number of specta-

I rtich this theatre was capable of accommo-

3; According to Pliny, in whose MSS. there

to nriauVns. it held 40,000 persons (xxxvi.

a. '): and the account of Tacitus of the visit

•* i-rnnsn ambassadors seems to indicate a large

»W(" Intravere Pompeii theatrum, quo magni-

mtj [opuli viserent," Ann. xiii. 54). Yet one

at radices of the Notitia assigns to it only

W atata, and the Curiotum still fewer, or

**' It «ai called Uuatrum lapitkum, or mar-  
« frum tlie material of which it was bnilt;

*. homer, dad not suffice to protect it from the  
(W of fine. The teena was destroyed in the

'■( Iiwui, and rededicated by Claudius (Tac.

'ii Tt; Dion Cass. lx. 6). The theatre was

I a. the fire under Titus, and again in the reign

bat il must have been restored on both

>»•. ai it is mentioned by Ammianus Mar­

ia unong the objects most worthy of notice in

nut of the visit of Constantins II. (xvi. 10).

or- from the Catalogut Jmperatorum, that it

rrpaired by Diocletian and Maximian: and

■ also the object of the care of Theodoric

■at I'mr ,r. 51).

• TautaTBK or Baltics, dedicated in B.C. 12

■ W; Dion Cass, liv. 25), was A building

ata ha* importance, and but few accounts

hwn preserved of it; yet it must have lasted

period, as it is recorded in the Notitia.

dnaj to the Cvryosian it accommodated 11,600

a. 'IiiUt the MSS. of the Notitia mention

0 sad 8088.

a Tsnunci-ai Mabcelxj was begun by Caesar

Ceia. xliai. 49), and dedicated by Augustus,

II. lu the memory of his nephew, Marcellus.

kjaanjr.; Saet. Aug. 29; Dion Cass. liv. 26.)

>"* already mentioned its situation in the

■ t-+*oriuin; and very considerable remains

f t:ij to be seen in the Piazza Montanara.

few are now occupied by dirty workshops.

■ tt aeon to have enjoyed so much celebrity

■ '•.'ft tneatre. According to the Curiomm

> apabtt of accommodating 20.000 spectators,

•aaa* ni restored by Vespasian (Suet. Ve.<p.

n] Lampridios mentions that Alexander

Severus contemplated a renovation of the theatre

{Alex. 44.)

#H—H H~+

THEATRE OF MARCEIXL'S,

These were the three Koman theatres, properly so

called (Ov. Tr. iii. 12. 24.):—

"I'roque tribus resonant tcrna theatra foris."

Some of the MSS. of the Notitia mention four

theatres, including, of course, the Odei.'M, which

was a roofed theatre, intended for musical per*

formances. According to the most trustworthy

accounts, it was built by Dumitian, to be used in

the musical contests of the Capitoline frames which

he instituted (Suet. /km. 4; Cassiod. Chron.

p. 197, Rone): and when Dion Cassius (lxix. 4)

ascribes it to Trajan, we may perhaps assume that

it was finished or perfected by him. Nero appears

to have first introduced musical contests (Tac. Ann.

xiv. 20). but the theatre in which they were held

was probably a temporary one. The Odeum was

capable of holding 10,04)0 or 12,000 persons. It

is mentioned by Ammianus Marcel linos (xvi. 10).

The Amphitheatre ok Statiuis Taircs

was the first permanent building of that kind erected

at Rome, After the chariot races, the gladiatorial com­

bats were the most favourite spectacle of the Romans;

yet it was long before any peculiar building was

appropriated to them. We have already related

that the first gladiators were exhibited in the Forum

Boarium in n.c.264; and & u br.em ten t lythe** combats

took place either in the circus or in tlie Forum

Romanum; yet neither of these places was well

| adapted for such an exhibition. The former was

