LEONTINI. LEONTINI. 159

freedom and independence of Leontini. (Diod. xiii.

89, 113, 114; Xen. IlelL ii. 3. § 5.) This con­

dition was not Ion;; observed by Dionrsius, who no

sooner found himself free from the fear of Carthage

than he turned hU arms against the Chalcidic cities,

and, after reducing Cataua and Nairn, compelled

the Leontines, who were now bereft of all their allies,

to surrender their city, which was for the second

time de>ened, and the whole people transferred to

Syracuse, b. c 403. (Id xiv. 14, 15.) At a later

period of hU reign (b. o. 396) Dionysius found him­

self compelled to appease the discontent of his mer­

cenary troops, by giving up to them both the city

anil the fertile territory of Leontini, where they esta­

blished themselves to the number of 10,000 men.

(Id.xiv. 78.) From this time Leontini is repeatedly

mentioned in connection with the civil troubles and

revolutions at Syracuse, with which city it seems to

have constantly continued in intimate relations;

bnt, as Strabo observe:*, always shared in its dis­

asters, witliout always partaking of its prospe-

rity. (Strab. vi. p. 273.) Thus, the Leon tines

were among the first to declare against the younger

Dionysius and open their gates to Dion (Diod. xvi.

16; Plut. Jjion. 39, 40). Some years afterwards

their city was occupied with a military force by

Hicetas, who from thence carried on war with Ti-

moleon (lb. 78, 82) ; and it was nut till after the

great victory of the latter over the Carthaginians

(b.c.340) that he was able to expel Hicetos

arnl make himself master of Leontini. (lb. 82;

Plut. TimoL 32.) That city was not, like almost

all the others of Sicily, restored on this occasion to

freedom and independence, but was once more incor-:

pcated in the Syracu-an state, and the inhabitants

transferred to that city. (Diod. xvi. 82.)

At a later peri<xl the Leontincs again figure as an I

ir^fpendeut state, and, during the wars of Agathocles ,

with the Carthaginians, on several occasions took

part against the Syracusans. (Diod. xix. 110, xx.

32.) When Pyrrhus arrived in Sicily, B.C. 278,

they were subject to a tyrant or despot of the name

of Heracleides, who was one of the first to make his

submi»don to that monarch. (Id. xxii. 8, 10, Exc.

//. [i. 4^7.) But not long after they appear to have

azain fallen under the yoke of Syracuse, and Leon-

tiaiwas one of the cities of which the sovereignty

»a» secured to Hieruii, king of Syracuse, by the

treaty concluded with him by the Romans at the

commencement of the First Punic War, b. c. 263.

(Id. xxiii. Exc. If. p. 502.) This state of things

continued till the Second Punic War, when Leontini

again figures conspicuously in the events which led

to the fall of Syracuse. It was in one of the long

Arid narrow streets of Leontini that llicrouymus

*ia a-vskss"mated by Dinornenes, B.C. 215 (Liv.  
xxir. 7; Polyb. vii. 6); and it was there that,

ihurtly after, Hippocrates and Epicydes first raised

the standard of open war against Kome. Marcel I us

Battened to attack the city, and made himself master

of it without difficulty; but the severities exercised

by him on this occasion inflamed the minds of the

Srncu*an» to such an exteut as to become the im­

mediate occasion of the rupture with Kome. (Liv.

Hxv. 29. 30, 39.) Under the Roman government

Leontini was restored to the position of an inde-

jendent municipal town, but it seems to have sunk

iatoaitate of de<\iy. Cicero calls it " misera civitas

»tque inanis" ( Verr. ii. 66); and, though its fertile

territory was still well cultivated, this was done almost

*hffly by farmers from other cities of Sicily, par-

ticularly from Centuripa. (lb. iii. 46, 49.) Strabo

also speaks of it as in a very declining condition,

and though the name is still found in Pliny and

Ptolemy, it seems never to have been a place of

importance under the Roman rule. (Strab. vi.

p. 273; Mel. ii. 7. § 16; Plin. iii. 8. s. 14; Ptol.

iii. 4. § 13.) But the great strength of its position

must have always preserved it from entire decay,

and rendered it a place of some consequence in the

middle ages. The modem city of Lcntini, which

preserves the ancient site us well as name, is a poor

place, though with about 5000 inhabitants, and

suffers severely from malaria. No ruins are visible

on the site; but some extensive excavations in the

rucky sidei of the hill on which it stands are be­

lieved by the inhabitants to be the work of the

Laestrygones, and gravely described as such by

Eaacllo. (Fazcll. dc Btb. Sic. iii. 3.)

The situation of Leontini is well described by

Polybius : it stood on a broken hill, divided into two

separate summits by an intervening valley or hollow;

at the foot of this hill on the W. side, flowed a small

stream, which he calls the Lisst'S, now known as

the Fiume Ruina, which falls into the Lake of

Lcntini, a little below the town. (Pol. vii. 6.) The

two summits just noticed, being bordered by pre­

cipitous cliffs, formed, as it were, two natural citadels

or fortresses; it was evidently one of these which

Tliucydides mentions under the name of Piiuceak,

which was occupied in b. c. 422 by the Leon tine

exiles who returned from Syracuse. (Time. v. 4.)

Both heights seem to have been fortified by the

Syracusaus, who regarded Leontini as an important

fortress; and we find them alluded to as "the

forts" (rh <ppovpta) of Leontini. (Diod. xiv. 5S,

xxii. 8.) Diodorus ulso mentions that one quarter

of Leontini was known by the name of " The New

Town" (t) N«'a irdAis, xvi. 72); but we have no

means of determining its locality. It is singular

that no ancient author alludes to the Lake (or as it

is commonly culled the Bivierc) of Lentim, a sheet

of water of considerable extent, but stagnant and

shallow, which lies immediately to the N. of the

city. It produces abundance of fish, but is con­

sidered to bo the principal cause of the malaria from

which the city now suffers. (D'Orville, Sicula,

p. 168; Smyth's Sicily, pp. 157, 153.)

The extraordinary fertility of the territory of

Leontini, or the Lkontlnus Campus, is celebrated

by many ancient authors. According to a tradition

commonly received, it was there that wheat grew

wild, and where it was first brought into cultiva­

tion (Diod. iv. 24, v. 2); and it was always regarded

as the most productive district in all Sicily for the

growth of corn. Cicero calls it " campus ille Leon-

tinus nobilissimus ac feracissimua," "uberrima

Siciliae pars," ''caput rei frumentariac/' and says

that the Romans were accustomed to consider it as

in itself a sufficient resource against scarcity. (Cic.

Verr. iii. 18, 44, 46. pro Scaur. 2, PhiL viii. 8.)

The tract thus celebrated, which was known also by

the name of the Lakstkygomi Cami-i [Laestky-

gonks], was evidently the plain extending from tho

foot of the hills on which Leontini was situated to

the river Symaethus, now known as the Piano di

Catania. We have no explanation of tho tradition

which led to the fixing on this fertile tract as tho

abode of the fabulous Laestrygones.

Leontini was noted as tho birthplace of the cele­

brated orator Gorgias, who in b. c. 427 was the

head of the deputation sent by his native city to

