Memphis. 325 MEMPHIS.

position in the "narrows" of Aegypt, at a point

where the Arabian and Libyan hills converge for

the last time as they approach the Delta, and

whence Memphis commanded the whole inland

trade, whether ascending or descending the Nile.

On the coins of Hadrian the wealth and fertility of

Memphis are expressed by a figure of the Nile on

their reverse, holding in his left hand a cornucopia.

(Mi-ranet, SuppL ix. No. 42.)

The position of Memphis, again, as regarded the

civilisation which Aegypt imparted or received, was

most favourable. A capital in the Thebaid would

have been too remote for communication with the

East or Greece: a capital in the Delta would have

bren too remote from the Upper Kingdom, which

would then have pertained rather to Aethiopia than

to Aegypt; while the Delta itself, unsupported by the

Thebaid, must m all probability have become an

Assyrian province. But the intermediate situation

of Memphis connected it both with the southern

portions of the Nile valley, as far as its keys at Philae

and Klcphantina, and also through the isthmus of

Sarz and the coast, with the most civilised races of

A>ia and Europe. After the foundation of Alexan­

dria, indeed, Memphis sunk into a provincial city.

But the Saracen invaders in the seventh century

confirmed the wisdom of Menes's choice, for they

built both Old and New Cairo in the neighbourhood

of Memphis, only changing the site from the western

to the eastern bank of the river, because their natural

alliances, unlike those of the Pharaohs, were with

the Arabians and the Syrian Khalifates.

The history of Memphis is in some measure that

of Aegypt also. The great works of Mencs were

probably accomplished by successive monarchs, if

not indeed by several dynasties. In the 1st period

of ibe monarchy we find that the 3rd, 4th, 6th, 7th,

and 8th dynasties consisted of Memphite kings.

Athotia, who is styled a son of Mencs, is said to have

built the palace, and thus stamped the new city as

a n>yal residence. In the reign of Kaiechos, in the

2nd dynasty, the worship of Apis was established

at Memphis, which was equivalent to rendering it a

cathedral city. In the 7th dynasty we havo a record

rf seventy Memphite kings, each reigning for one

day: this probably denotes an interregnum, and

perhaps a foregone revolution; for, as Herodotus re-

navks (ii. 147), the Aegyptians could not exist

without a monarchy. After the 8th dynasty no

aeries of Memphite kings occurs; and the royal

families pass to Heracleopolis, in the first place;

next, after the expulsion of the Shepherds, to Thebes;

afterwards to the Deltaic cities of Tanis, Bubastis,

and Sais.

The shepherd kings, thongh they formed their

great ramp at Abaris, retained Memphis as the seat

tf civil government (Manetho, ap. Joseph, conl.

Apim,i. 14); and although, after they withdrew

into Syria, Thebes became the capital, yet we have a

prW th»t the 18th dynasty—the house of Barneses—

fceld their northern metropolis in high esteem. For

Sewstris, or Barneses III. (Herod, ii. 108), on his

return from his Asiatic wars, set up in front of the

temple of Ptah at Memphis a colossal statue of

himself 45 feet high; and this is probably the co-

k**al figure still lying among the mounds of ruin

a: Uitranieh. Under the 25th dynasty, while the

A*tbiopians occupied Aegypt, Memphis was again

the seat of a native government,—apparently the

nsmlt of a revolution, which set Sethos, a priest,

Bpn the throne. A victory obtained by this mon-

arch over the Assyrians was commemorated by a

statue in the temple of Ptah—Sethos holding in his

hand a mouse, the symbol of destruction. (Horapol.

Hieroglyph, i. 50; comp. Aelian, B. anna, vi. 41;

Strab. xiii. p. 604: Herod, ii. 141.) Under Psam-

metichus (n. c. 670) the Phoenician soldiers, who

had aided him in gaining the crown, were established

by him in " the Tyrian camp,"—at least this seems

to be the meaning of Herodotus (ii. 112),— but were

removed by his successor Amasis into the capital

itself, and into that quarter of it called the " White

Castle."

Of all the Aegyptian cities, Memphis suffered the

most severely from the cruelty and fanaticism of

the Persians. Its populace, excited by the defeat of

the Aegyptian army at Pelusium, put to death the

Persian herald who summoned the Memphians to

surrender. The vengeance of the conqueror is re­

lated by Herodotus. Memphis became the head­

quarters of a Persian garrison; and Cambyses, on his

return from his unfortunate expedition against

Aethiopia, was more than ever incensed against the

vanquished. Psammei.itus, the last of the Pharaohs,

was compelled to puthimself to death (Herod, iii. 15);

Cambyses slew the god Apis with his own hand, and

massacred his priests; he profaned the Temple of

Ptah and burned the images of the Caheiri (id. ib. 32).

Under Darius Aegypt was mildly governed, and his

moderation was shown by his acquiescence in the

high-priest's refusal to permit the erection of a

statue to him at Memphis. (Herod, ii. 110; Diodnr.

i. 58.) The next important notice of this city is in

the reign of Artaxerxes I. Inaros, son of Psamme-

tichus, had revolted from Persia, and called in the

aid of the Athenians. (Diod. xi. 71.) The Per­

sians were defeated at Papremis in the Delta (ib,

74; comp. Mannert, Geogr. x. p. 591), fled to Mem­

phis, and were besieged in the "White Castle."

(Thucyd. i. 108—109.) The siege lasted for more

than a year (Diodor. ii. 75), and was at length

raised (Ctcsias, c. 33), and the authority of the

king of Persia restored. Under Nectanebus I., the

first monarch of the Sebennytic dynasty, Memphis

expelled its Persian garrison, nor did it return to

its allegiance, until Nectanebus II., the last repre­

sentative of thirty dynasties, was driven into Ae­

thiopia. (Athenaeus, iv. p. 150.) From this period

Memphis loses its metropolitan importance, »nd

sinks to the level of the chief provincial city of

Aegypt.

If, as Diodorus remarks (i. 51), Thebes sur­

passed Memphis in the grandeur of its temples, the

latter city was more remarkable for the number of

its deities and sacred buildings, and for its Eecular

and commercial edifices. It might, indeed, as regards

its shrines, be not improperly termed the Pantheon

of the land of Misraim. The following were its

principal religious structures, and they seem to

include nearly all the capital objects of Aegyptian

worship except the goat and the crocodile:—

1. The temple of Isis, was commenced at a very

early period, but only completed by Amasis, B.C. 564.

It is described as spacious and beautiful (Herod, ii.

176; Heliodor. Aethiop. vii. 2, 8, 11), but inferior

to the Iseium at Busiiis (Herod, ii. 59, 61).

2. The temple of Proteus, founded probably by-

Phoenicians, who had a commercial establishment at

Memphis. It was of so early date as to be ascribed

to the era of the Trojan War, (Plutarch, tie Gen.

Socrat. c. 7.)

3. The temple of Apia, completed in the reign of

T 3

