VEIL VEIL 1263

ame, without calling upon tlie state for either Rol­

lers or money. The senate thankfully accepted

»c offer. On the following morning 306 Fabii met

i the vestibule of the consul's house. As they

avMxl through the city to the place of their dea-

nation, they itopped at the capitol and offered np

nws to the gods for the success of their enterprise.

Tien they passed out of Rome by the right arch of

be Porta Carmentalis, and proceeded straight to the

>ver Cremera, where there was a spot that seemed

Uptril by nature as a fortress for their little gar-

t*oo. It appears, however, that tho Fabii were

•-cornpanied by their clients and adherents, and

bm whole band probably amounted to 3000 or 4000.

i Honys. ix. 15; P. £>iac t. v. Sakrata Porta.')

Tbc place which they chose as the station of their

srrisun was a precipitous hill which seemed to

mrt been cut and isolated by art; and they further

-rengtbened it with entrenchments and towers,  
rix spot has been identi6ed with great probability

■ v Xardini, and subsequently hy other topographers,

rith a precipitous hill about 6 miles from Home, on

he left of the Via Flamiuia, where it is traversed

the Cremera (now the Vakha). and on the

ight bank of that stream. It is the height which

■rnmands the present Otteria della Valchetta.

Vibby, IfttUorni di Roma, vol. iii. p. 399; Dennis,

Ktmria, vol. i. p. 43.)

The position here taken up by the Fabii not only

rallied them to put a complete stop to the mo­

unding expeditions of the Veientines, but even to

tcnout depredations themselves on the territory of

li. The Veientines having made many vain at-

empts to dislodge them, at length implored the

nscrjour of tlie Etruscans; but the Fabii on their

■Ida were supported by a consular army under Ae-

nilhu, and the Veientines and their allies were de-

Viied. Tliis success rendered the Fabii still more

•Titerprisiug. After occupying their fortress two

rears with impunity they began to extend their

-reunions; and the Veientines on their side

■ ought to draw them onwards, in which they at

tngth succeeded. By a feigned flight, they en-

netl the Fabii into an ambuscade and slew them,

13th Feh. B.O.476. (Ov. /Vm<. ii. 195, sqq.; Lit.

,u 48—40; lMonys. ix. 16—19; Floras, i. 12,4c.)

Klated with this success, the Veientines, united

rith the Etruscans, now marched towards Rome

mil pitched their camp on the Janiculan hill, at a

'Lt'anee of only 6 stadia from the city. Thence pass-

ng the Tiber, they penetrated as far as tho ancient

rv.ple of Hope, which stood near the modern Porta

Mayyijrt. Here an indecisive action took place,

which was renewed at the Porta Collina with the

hum result; but two engagements of a more de­

risive character on the Janiculan hill obliged the

ilbed army to retreat. In the following year the

v'rierjtincs allied themselves with the Sabines, but

"ere completely defeated under the walls of their

m city by the consul Pub. Valerius. The war

»u brought to a termination in the following year,

us the consulship of C. Manlius, who concluded with

[t-em a truce uf 40 years, the Veientines engaging

te pay a tribute in corn and money. (Lit. ii.

51—54; Dionys. ix. 23, sqq.)

But such terms were merely nominal, and in a

few years hostilities were renewal. We hear of

torn* forays made by the Veientines in B. c. 442

[Lrv. Iv. 1); but there was no regular war till

rven years later, when the Veientines, who were at

nat time governed by Lars, or King, Tolumnius,

excited the Roman colony Fidenae to rebel; and in

order completely to compromise the - Fidenates, To­

lumnius ordered them to slay the Roman ambas­

sadors who had been despatched to demand an

explanation. Both sides new to arms; one or two

obstinate engagements ensued; but the allies who

had been joined by the Falisci also, were overthrown

in a decisive battle under the walk) of Fidenae, in

which Tolumnius was killed by the Roman military

tribune, A. Cornelius Cosh us. (Liv. iv. 17—19;

cf. I'ropert. iv. 10. 22, sqq.)

Three years afterwards, Rome being afflicted with

a severe pestilence, the Veientines and Fidenates

were emboldened to march upon it, and encamped

before the Porta Collina; but on the appearance of

a Roman army under the dictator Aulas Servilius,

they retreated. Serrilius having pursued and routed

them near Nomentum, marched to Fidenae, which

he at length succeeded in taking by means of a

cuniculus or mine. (Liv. iv. 22.)

Although the Veientines obtained a truce after

this event, yet they soon violated it, and began to

commit depredations in the Roman territory, n. c

427; and even defeated a Roman army whose ope­

rations had been paralysed through the dissensions

cf the three military tribunes who commanded it.

The Fidenates now rose and massacred all the Ro­

man colonists, and again allied themselves with the

Veientines, who had also enlisted a great number

of Etruscan volunteers in Uieir service. These

events occasioned great alarm at Rome, Mamercus

Aemilius was created dictator, and, marching against

the enemy, encamped in the peninsula formed by

the confluence of the Anio and the Tiber. Between

this spot and Fidenae a desperate battle was fought:

stratagems were employed on both sides; but at

length the allies were completely defeated, and the

Romans entered the gates of Fidenae along with the

flying enemy. The city was sacked and destroyed

and the inhabitants sold as slaves; but on the other

hand the Romans granted the Veientines a truce

of 20 years. (Liv. iv. 31—35.)

At the expiration of this truco, the Romans re­

solved to subdue Veil, as they had done Fidenae,

and it was besieged by an army commanded by six

military tribunes. At this news the national as­

sembly of the Etruscans met at the fane of Vol-

tumna, to consider what course they should pursue.

The Veientines had again resorted to the regal

form of government; but unfortunately the person

whom they elected for their king, though rich and

powerful, had incurred the hatred of the whole

Etruscan nation by his oppressions and imperious

manners, but especially by his having hindered the

performance of certain sacred games. The Etrus­

cans consequently declared that, unless he was de­

posed, they should afford the Veientines no assist­

ance. But the Utter were afraid to adopt this

resolution, and thus they were abandoned to their

fate. Nevertheless, they contrived to prolong the

siege for a period of ten years, during which tho

Romans were several times discounted. It is

worthy of remark that it was during this siege that

the Roman soldiers, being obliged to pass the winter

out of Rome, first received a fixed regular stipend.

The Cspenates, the Falisci, and the Tarquinienses iu

vain endeavoured to relievo the beleaguered city.

The length of the siege had begun to weary

the Romans, when, according to the legend, tlie

means of its capture was suggested by an extraordi­

nary portent. The waters of Lake Albonus swelled

