TIIRACIA. I ISO TIIRACIA.

[ its people into Macedonia: they then sometimes

ude retaliatory expeditions into Thrace; but seem

rumily to hare made their way back as soon as

.p immediate object was accomphshed. The rela­

te, existing between the Romans and the Tliracians,

* more than a century after the conquest of Ma-  
iduiia, thus burs a close resemblance to that which

at long existed between onr own countrymen and

LeCafrres.

I>uring the years B.C. 110, 109, the Consul M.

1 nufios Rufue was engaged in hostilities with the

. :imi and Triballi; and, according to Florus(J.c),

> J waste the whole valley of the Ilebrus (cf. Kutr.

.27). In B. c. 104, Calpurnius Piso penetrated

•lo the district of Khodope (Flor. /. <•.). In n. v.

1. the Maedi defeated the praetor, C. Sentina, and

!rn ravaged Macedonia (Cic. Pit. 34 ; Li v. Epit.

"I After the breaking out of the Mithridatic

isr (B.C. 88), mention is made in several successive

*sn of the incursions of the Thracians into the  
>:isn provinces, and it is probable that they were

ring in concert with Mithridates, whose general

Viilea, in b. c. 86, led a vast army through Thrace,

-ii Macedonia to the assistance of Archelaus. (Liv.  
/ it.74,76,81,82). On the final defeat of Archelaus,

i.li directed his inarch towards Asia through, Thrace

i c 84, and, either to punish the people for their

'rwtion with Mithridates. or because they opposed

j ;*uage. made war upon them with complete snc-

m (Id. 83). C. Scribonina Curio defeated the

•ardtiii, and penetrated to the Danube, being the

-it Roman who had ventured into that |*rt of  
•arope (b.c. 75; Liv. Epit. 92; Eutr. vi 2).

ario waft sncceeded as governor of Macedonia by M.

anillaa (b.c 73), who defeated the Bessi in a

: uri bs'.tle on Mount Haemus, took their capital,

i ravaged the wliole country between the Hueinus

M the Danube (Liv. Epit. 97; Eutr. vi. 10).

be Bessi were again conquered in B. c. 60 by Octa-

iu, the father of Augustus (Suet. Aug. 3 ; cf. lb.

4 . Freiiuh. Swppl. exxxv. 2). In the years B. c

\ Pieo, so well known to us from Cicero's cele-

rs!ej speech against him, was governor of Mace-

ueu ; and, if we may believe Cicero, acted in the

■: cruel and faithless manner towards the Bessi

•I other peaceable Thracian tribes. (/'i». 34, de

He. Cunt. 2, se<].). From the latter passage it

I'fnn that although Thrace was not under the

-nrrwnt of Rome, yet the Romans claimed the  
. •.: irf way through it to the Hellespont; for Cicero

d!s the Egnatian Way " via ilia nostra militaris."

In the civil war between CaCNir and Pompey,

i'fal Thracian princes furnished the latter with

-unary farces. Why they interfered in the  
vm, and why they preferred Ponipey to Caesar,

v matters of conjecture only. Pompey had been

■tii engaged all his life in the East, Caesar in the

**t ; and that is probably sufficient to account for  
■ .rater influence of Pompey in Thrace. (Caes.

I C. iu. 4 i Flor. iv. 2 ; Diuu Cass. xli. SI, 63,

I'i 25).

At the time of Caesar's death two brothers, Rhas-

'prit and Kascoa [Met. Biog. Vol. HI. p. 647]

>*d over the greater part of Thrace; and when

if war broke out between the triumvirs and the re.

■bliean party, Rhaacnporis aided with the Litter,

bik Kaactu aided the former. By this plan they

:"i to be safe, whichever party might be victorious;

«1 it is said that their expectations were realised.

n ben the power of Rome was at length wielded

i Au^utut without a rival, the relation of Thrace

to the Roman state seems to have become in many

respects like that which the native princes of India

long bore to the British. The Thracian kings were

generally allowed to exercise, without restraint, their

authority over their own subjects, and when needful

it was supported by the arms of Rome. But all dis­

putes among the native rulers were referred to the

decision of the emperors, who disposed of the conn-

try as its acknowledged lords. These subject princes

were expected to defend Thrace from external and

internal foes ; to assist the Romans in the field ; to

allow them to enlist troops, and in other ways to

exercise the rights of sovereignty. For illustrations of

these statements we must refer the reader to Tacitus,

especially to the following passages: Ann. ii. 64—

67, iii. 38, 39, iv. 5, 46—51. The few Thracian

coins which are extant afford a proof of the de­

pendent character of the Thracian kings ; they bear

on the obverse the effigy of the reigning emperor, on

the reverse that of the native prince. [See Diet

Bing. Vol. III. p. 653.]

The interference of the Romans in the government

of Thrace was not submitted to by the nation at

large without several severe struggles. The most

formidable of these occurred about B. c. 14, the

fullest account of which is given by Dion Cassius

(lib. liv.). The leader in this insurrection was Vo-

logaesus, a Bessian priest of Bacchus, who availed

himself of his sacerdotal character to inflame the

religious feelings of his countrymen. Having thus

assembled a large army, he attacked, defeated, and

slew Rhascuporis, a king under Roman protection;

his uncle, Rhoemetalces, was next assailed and com­

pelled to flee : the insurgents pursued him as far aw

the Chersonesus, where they devastated the country

and captured the fortified places. On receiving in­

formation of these proceedings, Augustus ordered

L. Pino, the governor of Pamphylia, to transport Ida

army into Thrace, where, after a three years' war

and several reverses, he at length sncceeded in sub­

duing the Bessi, who had adopted Roman arms and

discipline. They soon afterwards made a second

attempt to regain their independence ; but were now

easily crushed. (Veil. Pat. ii. 98; Tac. Ann. vi. 10;

Sen. Ep. 83; Flor. iv. 12 ; Liv. Epit. 137.)

After this war, the Romans gradually absorbed

all the powers of government in the country. Ger-

manicus visited it in A. D. 18. and introduced re­

forms in its administration (Tac. Ann. ii. 54) A

system of conscription seems to have been imposed

upon the Thracians about A. D. 26 (74. iv. 46).

The last native prince of whom we find any mention

is Rhoemetalces II., who, in A. I>. 38, was made by

Caligula ruler over the whole country; and at length,

in tie reign of Vespasian (A. i>. 69—79), Thrace

was reduced into the form of a province. (Suet.

Vttp. 8; Eutr. vii. 19; cf. Tac. llitt. L 11.) The

date of this event has been disputed on the authority

of the Eusebian Chronicle, which states that it took

place in A. u. 47, in the reign of Claudius; but the

statement of Suetonius is express on the point. It

is possible that Rhoemetulces II. may have died about

the year last mentioned ; and if Claudius refused to

appoint a successor to him, this would be regarded

as equivalent to incorporating the country in the

Roman empire, although its formal constitution as a

province was delayed ; as we know was commonly

the case. It is remarkable that Moesia was made a

province upwards of 50 years before Thrace Proper,

its first propraetor being mentioned in A. D. 15.

(Tac Ann. L 79; cf. lb. IL 66; Plin. iii. 26. a. 29.)

