KOMA. 771 ROMA.

miik of the Vitellians, where he makes them storm

« SW. height from tlie grove of the asylum, which

rpbrci where the steps now lead up to the Palazzo

■i KifrratorL But, first, it is impossible to sup-

m tint in the time of Vitelline the whole of this

rpimtutprove. Such an account is incon-

•im *ith the buildings which we know to have

a ceded on it, as the Tabularium, and also with

i praUbte attumption which we have ventured to

•■yue, that a considerable part of it was occupied

But, secondly, the account

already pointed out, is quite

ntfauble with Becker's view. The Vitellians,

c reptJtsd near the summit of the Clivus, retreat

rvr.inb,aod attempt two other ascents, one of

icfa wu by the Lucas A>yli. And this agrees

A that wt gather from Livy's description of the

m; "Locum, qui nunc septus descendentibus

* tm boas est, asylum aperit " (i. 8.) Whence  
fan tint the place called " inter duos lucos"

ixnai the ancient asylum, the enclosure of which

Ixn wu scan by thuee who descended the " inter

■ law." Thirdly, the asylum must have been

<tbe ippmach to it; and this, on Becker's own

wef (BmJk p. 415), was under the NE. summit,

■rfr, between the career and temple of Concuni

Wood the arch of Severua. This ascent has

i amaua»lj called Clivus Asyli, as there was

r «r euros on the Capitoline htlL But it is

i mpmible that an ascent on this side of the

avid have led to a Lucas Asyli where the Palazzo

"ma iviui i now stands. It was near the asylum,

* kwt seen, that the fire broke oat which de-  
H tfcf temple of Jupiter Capitolinas; and the

eoaeqaently, must have been on the NE.

ad. With leapect to the asylum, we need only

further remark, tliat it contained a small temple,

but to what deity it was dedicated nobody could tell

( vaov lw\ Tointp k<xtaunt vanduf-vos ■ &T(p Si &pa

&fwv fj Saifioruiv oiiic fx0" '■T"fr,(* fiimy, Dionys. ii.

15); and he was therefore merely called the divinity

of the asylum (dun aovAatos, l'lut. Horn. 9).

Another disputed point is the precise situation of

the Ritpes Takpeia, or that part of the summit

whence criminals were hurled. The prevalent opinion

among the older topographers was that it was cither

at that part of the hill which overhangs the Piazza

Montanara, that is, at the extreme S\V. point, or

farther to the W., in a court in the Via di Tor de"

Specchi, where a precipitous cliff, sufficiently high to

cause death by a fall from it. bears at prcseut the

name of Rnpe Tarpea, That this was the true

Turpeian rock is still the prevalent opinion, and has

been adopted by Becker. But Dureau de la Malle

(Memoire sur la Roche Tarpeienne, in the Mem. de

VAcad., 1819) has pointed out two passages in Dio-

nysius which are totally incompatible with this site.

In describing the execution of Cassius, that historian

says that he was led to the precipice tchich overhangs

the forum, and cast down from it in the view of all

Hit people (toDto to rt\os rijs Siiajs \aSownjs,

ayayuvTts ol rofilai rbv &y$pa M rbv {nrtptctlptvov

ttjj byopas KpTjfivbv, awdyrwv dpoWofP, tfipityav

tcara, tt)$ vtroas, viii. 78, cf. vii. 35, seq.). Now

this could not have taken place on the side of the Tor

aV Specchi, which cannot be seen from the forum;

and it is therefore assumed that the true Kupes

Tarpeia must have been on the E. side, above S.

Maria della Consolaziojie. The arguments adduced

by Becker to controvert this assumption are not very

convincing. He objects that the hill is much lew

precipitous here than on the other side. But this

St'PPOSKD TARPK1AN HOCK.

to its earlier state. Livy,

fall of a vast mass of

Such landslips most

&*qamt m later times, and it is precisely

nek was moat precipitous that they would

Tksm. Flsrhu. Blond us {Inst. Rom. ii. 58)

m tsa faU] in hia own time of a piece as large

AbbcIkt objection advanced by Becker

rrimiml woosd have fallen into the Vicus

Tsbk, however, ia absurd; he would only

have fallen at the back of the houses. Nothing can

be inferred from modern names, as that of a church

now non-extant, designated as sub Tarpeio, as we

have already shown that the whole S. summit was

Mons Tarpeius. Becker's attempt to explain away

the words airaVrwr bpwvrwv is utterly futile. On

the whole, it seems most probable that the rock

was on the SE. side, not only from the express

testimony of Dionys i us, which it is difficult or im­

possible to set aside, but also from the inherent pre­

3 d 2

