KOMI A. NORA. 445

Jef < Tiiicia; iU municipal privileges down to a

bf> prncd, lu territory tu fertile, and produced

■Ail »i»; which is celebrated by several

Mm tr its qulity as well as its abundance.

(HaLW.4.1.3; Colum. R. P. iii. 3; Athen. i. p.

t.k. IbrJaLx. 48. 19.) Scnera bad a country

Wat uA fsnn there, as well as Martial, and his

avail Q. Ovinias and Nepos, so that it seems to

bat Wa t place of some resort as a country retire-

tan it people of quiet habits. Martial contrasts

sBtbbrwpKt with the splendour and luxury of

saw tad ether fashionable watering-places; and

■Bans Nepos, in like manner, terms the villa of

pra. si Noujentum, " rusticura praedium." (Sen.

If. 1M: Martial, ri. 27, 43, X. 44, xii. 57 ; Nep.

1 Im anjer the Roman Empire there is much

pavamrv between our authorities as to whether

■eeitara wsj to be reckoned A Latin or a Sabine

■at Nnbo ascribes it to the latter people, whose

man W describes as extending from the Tiber

Jlaaarom u> the confines of the Yestini (v. p.

WL tftj, who appears to have considered the

■awn » bonded by the Anio, naturally includes

Bbavatsai and Fidenates among them (iii. 12.

I); taoafi he elsewhere enumerates the former

tht tall existing towns of Latium, and the

enaag those that were extinct. In like man-

ftpl in ena me rating the Sabine followers of

lea. rn. 712), includes "the city of No-

tksagh he had elsewhere expressly assigned

lias Is a colony from Alba. Ptolemy (iii.

latisctly assigns Momentum as well as

> Latium. Architectural fragments and

mg remains prove the continued prosperity

aader the Roman Empire: its name

■ the TabuU; and we leam that it became

■ aw kt the third century, and retained this

wn to toe tenth. The site is now occu-

ivflafa, which bears the name of La Mm-

m I —ra/uag, a corruption of Civitas Nomen-

*» epprlklmn by which it was known in the  
an. This stands on a small hill, somewhat

M tntjruit of access, a little to the right of

probably occupies the same

Sabine town: the Roman

to bare extended itself at the foot of the

the high road, which seems to have passed

tatmid.t of it.

to Xomentum was

the Via Nomentana.

208: Tab. Prut.) It issued from the

where it separated from the Via

the Anio by a bridge (known as the

and still called Ponte Lamen-

!y below the celebrated Muus Sacer,

bad almost in a direct line to No-

J en the way the site of Ficulea,

it had previously derived the name of

(Strab. t. p. 228; Liv. iii- 52.)

Bef the ancient pavement, or other un­

it Barks, trace its course with accuracy

I oaa distance. From Xomentum it con-

etraight line to Ereturn, where it rejoined

In. (Strab. /. c.) The Tabula gives

laf ltaaaiiTiiin from Rome at xiv. M. P.;

Caeca, according to Nibby, is half a mile

ikky, Dmtoni, vol. ii. p. 409, vol. iii.

[E. II. B.]

"Lrcjutca.]

in the

country of the Marcomanni (Bohemia), not far from

the banks of the Albis; but its site cannot be

determined. (Ptol. ii. 11. § 29; Wilhelm, Germanien,

p. 222.) [L. S.]

NONA'CRIS (NiiraKpis: F.th. Nuranpltrrns, Nw-

vaxpifvs). 1. A town of Arcadia, in the district of

Pheneatis, and NW. of Pheneus, which is said to

have derived its name from Nonacris, the wife of

Lycaon. From a lofty rock above the town rose the

waters of the river Styx. [Styx.] Pliny speaks

of a mountain of the same name. The place was in

ruins in the time of Pausanias, and there is no trace

of it at the present day. Leake conjectures that it

may have occupied the site of Mesorvghi. (Herod,

vi. 74; Paus. tHL 17. § 6; Steph. B. «. v.; Plin.

iv. 6. s. 10; Sen. Q. jV. iii. 25; Leake, Morea,

vol. iii. pp. 165, 169.) From this place Hermes is

called Nonacriates (NavaKptd'riis, Steph. B. s. v.),

Evander Nonacrius (Ov. Fast. v. 97), Atalanta

Nonacria (Ov. Met. vili. 426), and Callisto No-

nacrina virgo (Ov. Met. ii. 409) in the general sense

of Arcadian.

2. A town of Arcadia in the territory of Oreho-

menus, which formed, together with Callia and

Dipoena, a Tripolis. (Paus. viii. 27. § 4.)

NOORDA. [Nearda.]

NORA (Napa: Eth. Ncopoydr, Steph. B.; No-

rensis: Capo di Pula), a city of Sardinia, situated

on the S. coast of the island, on a promontory now

called the Capo di Pula, about 20 miles S. of Ca-

gliari. According to Pausanias (x. 17. § 5) it was

the most ancient city in the island, having been

founded by an Iberian colony under a leader named

Norax, who was a grandson of Geryones. Without

attaching much value to this statement, it seems

clear that Nora was, according to the traditions of

the natives, a very ancient city, as well as one of

the most considerable in later times. Pliny notices

the Norenses among the most important towns of

the island; and their name occurs repeatedly in the

fragments of Cicero's oration in defence of It Ae-

milius Scaurus. (Cic. pro Scaur. I, 2, ed. Orell.;

Plin. iii. 7. s. 13; Ptnl. iii. 3. § 3.) The position

of Nora is correctly given by Ptolemy, though his

authority had been discarded, without any reason,

by several modern writers; but the site has been

clearly established by the recent researches of the

Comte de la Marmora: its ruins are still extant on

a small peninsular promontory near the village of

Pula, marked by an ancient church of St. Kjffuio,

which, as we leam from ecclesiastical records, was

erected on the ruins of Nora. The remains of a

theatre, an aqueduct, and the ancient quays on the

port, are still visible, and confirm the notion that it

was a place of importance under the Roman govern­

ment. Several Latin inscriptions with the name of

the city and people have also been found; and others

in the Phoenician or Punic character, which must

belong to the period of the Carthaginian occupation

of Sardinia. (De la Marmora, Voyage cnSarxlaigne,

vol. ii. p. 355.)

The Antonine Itinerary (pp. 84, 84), in which the

name is written Nura, gives the distance from Cara-

lis as 32 M. P., for which we should certainly read

22: in like manner the distance from Sulci should he

59 (instead of 69) miles, which agrees with the

true distance, if we allow for the windings of the

coast. (De la Marmora, ii. p. 441.) [E. U. B.]

NORA (to Napa), a mountain fortress of Cappa-

docia, on the frontiers of Lycaonia, at the foot of

Mount Tanrus, in which Eumenes was for a whole

