SARDINIA. 911 SARDINIA.

raM t dependency of the Byzantine Empire'

nt to » late period. Bat in the 8th century,

'.cr luring raftered severely from the incursions of

» Susomt, it passed for the most part into the

all of ttat people, though the popes continued to

art > dwudaI sovereignty over the island.

III. ToPOORAPHY.

Tit pncipil physical features of Sardinia have

n dnady described. Of the numerous ranges, or

iter (naps, of mountains in the island, the only

oeit name that has been preserved to us is that of

• bruin Moxtbb (Lit. xxx. 39; Claudian, B. G.

J; tomiptra Spy, Ptol.), and even of these it

ut ax] to determine the position with any degree

■salty: the name was apparently applied to

> jsouitaios in the N. and NE. of the island,

ieh Mem to have been regarded (though er-

as more elevated than those farther S.,

lilt the unhealthiness of the southern part of the

*i tu popularly attributed to the shutting out  
tit bracing north winds by this range of lofty

[rtiina. (Claudian, I. c. 513—515.) From its

nt ud configuration, Sardinia could not possess

'kj considerable rivers. The largest were, the

ntrcs (etyxrof, PtoL: Tirto), which rises in the

nuhn m the NE. of the island, and flows into

6*1/of Orittano on the W. coast; the Sackr

ytvt (Itfbi Tenuis, Ptol.), which falls iuto

ux* guff near Neapolis, now called the R. di

■lima; the Texus or Term us CTipfiot, Ptol.),

cilJed the Ttmo, and falling into the sea near

a. to the N. of the Thyrsus; the Caedrius

>W>, Ptol.), on the E. coast of the island, now

fnwt di Orotci; and the Saeprns (Samper,

.1 now the Fbanendota, in the SE. quarter of

alatd. No ancient name has been preserved

ta» 8i> Samaui, which flows into the Gulf of

Bsri, near the city of that name, though it is a

■■ ft*Kiderab!e stream than several of those named,

takray has preserved to us (Hi. 3) the names of

a! »f the more important promontories and hend-

1 d the coast of Sardinia; and from its nature

■tf nration, most of these can be identified with

iiSculty. The most northern point of the

1 opposite to Corsica, was the promontory of

autism Ctp^eSamoy tutpor, PtoL), now called

V^'a del Falcone, or Lvnao Sardo. The NW.

. Arming the western boundary of an extensive

•.«v eiDed the Golfo delt Asmara, is the Gor-

*a Prom. (Toporrwov expor) of Ptolemy:  
Cx-tly opposite to it lies the /sola delT Ari-

UaMtcrua Ixsula ('HpoxAe'ow rrjaos)

Awirv and Pliny, and one of the most con-

a* of the smaller islands which surround

**■ This headland fonns the N. extremity of  
d/a of mountains called Monti della Hurra:

- asd of the same range forms a bold headland,  
ailed Capo della Caccia, immediately adjoin-

axa is a deep land-locked bay, the Nymphaeus

a of Ptolemy CNvfupaioi Ai^T/y), now called

> Coast. The Hermaeum Prom. (Lpualov

) of the same author is evidently the Capo di

about 12 miles N. of the river Temo:

ncolea Port us (Kooax^Sni \ipA\r), which he

> between that river and Tharros, is probably

tall bay that is found S. of Capo Mannu. The

- Crassurn (Tlax*7a ixpa) must be Capo AU  
4wn whence the coast trends to the SE. as far

> Ctpo di Teulada, the extreme S. point of the

1 aiaad, which most be the one called Cher-

Bonesus by Ptolemy; but his positions for this part

of the coast are very inaccurate. Opposite to this

SW. corner of the island lay two small islands, one

of them, called by Ptolemy the Island of Hawks

('Upojcwv PTjaos), is the liola di S. Pietro; the

other, now known as the Itola di S. Antioco, is

called by him Plumbaria Insula (MoAiSwotjs rr/iTos),

while it is named by Pliny Enosis. It was joined

to the mainland by a narrow strip of sand, and was

the site of the celebrated town of Sulci, from whence

the adjoining bay (now known as the Golfo di

Pabnas) derived the name of Sulcitanus Portus.

Two other small ports mentioned by Ptolemy be­

tween Cape Teulada and the site of Nora (at Capo

di l'«In), Bitiae Portus and Herculis Portus, must be

the small coves at Itola Kessa di Teulada and Porto

Malfattano. The next headland, named Cunicu-

buium Prom. {KovviKov\dpiov aKpov, but the reading

is doubtful), is the Punta della Savorra; and the

promontory of Caralis must be the headland im­

mediately adjoining the city of that name, now

called the Capo di S. Etia. Pliny, however, gives

the name of Caralitanum Prom, to the SE. head­

land of Sardinia, for which (singularly enough)

Ptolemy furnishes us with no name. The small

island lying off it, called both by him and Pliny

Ficaria, is a mere rock, now known as tlio hula dri

CavoK. Proceeding along tile E. const of the

island, we find the Snlpicius Portus (SovAirluior

Arur/r), which cannot be identified with certainty,

and the Portus Olbianus ('OAftaror \iu4\v), which

is certainly the Gulf of Terranona; while towards

the NE. extremity of the island are two headlands

called Columbarium and Arcti Promontorium. The

latter is still called Capo dell Orto, from its fancied

resemblance to the figure of a bear; the former can­

not be clearly identified, though it is most probably

the Capo di Ferro. Opposite this comer of Sar­

dinia lie several small islands, of which the Itola

della Maddalena is the most considerable, and next

to it the Itola di Caprera. These are probably the

Phintonis and Ilva of Ptolemy, while Pliny terms

them Phintonis and Fossa. The Coniculariae In-

sulae of Pliny are the small islets N. of these, now

called the Isolc dei BudellL

The towns of Sardinia were not numerous, and

but few of them attained to any importance, at least

down to a late period. Hence they are very sum­

marily dismissed by Strabo, who notices only Caralis

and Sulci by name, while Pliny tells us the island con­

tained eighteen " oppida," that is. towns of municipal

rank, but enumerates only six, besides the colony of

Turris Libysonis (Strab. v. p. 22; Plin. iii. 7. s. 13).

The only towns which appear to have ever really

been places of importance are: Caralis, the capital

of the whole island, in ancient as in modern times;

Sulci, in the extreme SW. of the island, on the

Itola di S. Antioco; Noka, on the coast between

Caralis and Sulci at the Capo di Pula; Neapolis,

on the W. coast, at the mouth of the Sacer Fluvius;

Tharros, on a promontory at the N. extremity of

the Gulf of Orittano; Corsus, on the W. coast,

about 16 miles further N.; Bosa (B£<ro, Ptol. iii. 3.

§ 7; Itm. Ant p. 83), also on the W. coast, at

the mouth of the river Temus, still called Bosa;

Turris Libyboxis (Porto Torret), on the N. coast

of the island; TiBrLA, at Lungo Sardo, near the

extreme N. point or Cape Errebantium; and Olbia,

on the Gulf of Terranova, in the NE. corner of the

island. In the interior were: Forum Trajan!

I (Fordunaiamu), situated on the river Thyrsus

