868 SAB1NL SABINI.

soners were sold as slaves; the remaining citizens

were admitted to the Roman franchise, but without

the right of suffrage, and their princijwd towns were

reduced to the subordinate condition of Praefeeturae.

(Veil. Pat i. 14; Festus, s. v. Praeftcturae; Serv. ad

Aen. vii. 709, whose statement can only refer to

this period, though erroneously transferred by trim

to a much earlier one.) The right of suffrage was,

however, granted to them about 20 years later

(b. C. 268); and from this time the Sabines en­

joyed the full rights of Roman citizens, and were

included in the Sergian trite. (Veil. 1'at. /. c; Cic.

pro Bulb. 13, tn Yatin. 15.) This circumstance

at once separated tbem from the cau>e of the other

nations of Italy, including their own kinsmen the

Samnites, Picentes, and Peligni, during the great

contest of the Social War. On that occasion the

Sabines, as well as the Latins and Cainpanians, were

arrayed on behalf of Koine.

The last occasion on which the name of the

Sabines as a people is found in history is during

the Second Punic War, when they came forward

in a body to furnish volunteers to the army of

Scipio. (Liv. xxviii. 45.) After their incorpora­

tion with the Roman state, we scarcely meet with

any separate notice of them, though they continued

to be regarded as among the bravest and hardiest of

the subjects of Rome. Hence Cicero calls tlieiu

"florcm Italiae at robur rei pubHcae." (Pro Liyar.

no

Under the Empire their name did not even con­

tinue to be used as a territorial designation. Their

territory was included in the Fourth Region by

Augustus. (Plin. iii. 12. s. 17.) It was sub­

sequently reckoned a part of the province of Valeria,

and is included with the rest of that province under

the appellation of Picenum in the Liber Coloniarum.

(Lib. Col. pp. 253. 257. &c; P. L>iuc. Hist. Lang.

ii. 20; Moinmsen, ad Lib. Col. p. 212.) But

though the name of the Sabines thus disappeared

from official usage, it still continued in current

popular use. Indeed it was not likely that a people

so attached to ancient usages, and so primitive in

their habits, would readily lose or abandon their

old appellation. Hence it is almost the only in­

stance in which the ancient name of a district or

region of Italy has been transmitted without alter­

ation to the present day: the province of La

Sabitiu still forms one of the twelve into which the

States of the Church are divided, and is comprised

within very nearly the same limits ax it was in the

davs of Strata. (Rampoldi, biz. Coroff. d Italia,

«.».)

'I he country of the Sabines was, as already men­

tioned, for the most part of a rugged and mountain­

ous character; even at the present day it is cal­

culated that above two-thirds of it are incapable of

any kind of cultivation. But the valleys are fertile,

and even luxuriant; and the sides of the hills, and

lower slopes of the mountains, are well adapted for

the growth both of vines and olives. The northern­

most tract of their territory, including the upper

valleys of the Mar and Velinus, especially the

neighbourhood of Nursia, was indeed a cold and

bleak highland country, shut i- )n all sides by some

of the highest ranges of the Apennines; and the

whole broad tract which extends from the group of

the Monte Yelino, SE. of Beats, to the front of

the mountain ranges that border the Campngna of

Rome, is little more than a mass of broken and

rugged mountains, of inferior elevation to the more

central ranges of the Apennines, but AS uj (pen.

inconsiderable. The Monte Oennaro (the Uat

Lucretilis of Horace), which noes dirertlj fruea lis

plain of the CaJtijxtgna, attains to ui fknw d

4285 English feet above the va. Bat the i&Lxi

mountain called Monte Tcrmimllo Dear le—um*

NE. of /(«•/!, which forms a conspicuou* objasi it

the view from Rome, rises to a height at abea)

70(H) feet, while the Monte Yelino, of

the confines of the Sabiires and the Yentmi, i» ieV

less than 8180 feet in height. The wtw4e of m\.

ridge, also, which separates the Saba** fce%

Picenum is one of the must elevated of u* Aanv

nines. The Monti at.Ua Sibilla, in whkh the In

takes its rise, attain the height of 7200 feet. «sJH

the Monte Yettore and Puzo di Seen, whit a mm

the continuation of the same chain t* *m» ■!

GVrtii Sasso, rise to a still greater ele»aii*ai. Tm%

can be no doubt that these lofty and rugged fMH

of mountains are those designated by the anaeaVH

the MoNS FlSCBLLUS, TaTTKICA (" Tetriea* M

rentes rapes," Virg. Atm. vii. 713» and >nn«

but we are unable to identify with any rcnaasyH

particular mountains to wb'kh these came* M

applied. The more westerly part of tbe Srffl

territory slopes gradually from the lofty tuM

these central Apennines towards the valley af ■

Tiber, and though always hilly is a fertisrjB

productive country, similar to tbe part ct Ua|J

which it adjoins. The lower valley of the VeH

about R>*ate was also celebrated for its fc<tafa|^fl

even at the present day is deservedly levioeaM

of the most beautiful districts in Italy.

The physical character of the land *4 tbe&fl

evidently exercised a strong influence u^o tasfl

racier and manners of the people. HighiaadeaM

mountaineers are generally brave, hardy, aod H

and the Sabines seem to have frev«esa«d *^ 4

qualities in so high a degree that tlier becaoajfl

were, the types of them among the Kotnana.

calls them '" severissimi homines Sabiiu." aatl

speaks of the 4* discipline tetnea ac

Sabinorum." (Cic. in Yatin. 15, LmmM

Liv. i. 18.) Caio also described the

frugal mode of life of the early Romans a> m)/M

from the Sabines (op. Srrv. ad Ae%. vaL

Their frugal manners and moral panrr cs^l

indeed, even under the Roman govenuneal. ftafl

object of admiration, and are often iutndocei'H

poets of the Empire as a contr;i&t to tie loxaaH

dissoluteness of the capital. (Hot. Cam, bi»9

— 44, Kpod. 2. 41, EpUL ii. 1. %S; tM

iii. 24. 47; Juv. iii. 169.) With them J

were combined, as is not unfrequentlj Unmi d

secluded mountaineers, an earnest f+etv aaalfl

religious feeling, together with a iiiinsan

ment to the religious usages and forms of ll

which had been transmitted to them by tmm

cestora. The religion of the Sabines 4eaa>a^H

to have differed essentially frum thai <af ihefl

neighbouring nations of Italy, bat thrr taatS

[teculiar divinities, or at least divioim u^ktfl

the Latins or Etruscans, though scene «rf t^aaaJ

to have Urn common to the Umbnana ifl

head of these stood Sane us. called also SeaatfH

who was the tutelary divinity ot tbe naliaa^^l

reputed father of their mythical ;-vgv«aaf

eponymous hero Sabus. He vat cinsjecnd m

peculiar guardian of oaths, and was theaxv ceafl

identified by the Romans with l>;us Kadeana9

others, for less obvious reasona, iUtnu£ed AaM

