680 PUTEOLI. PUTEOLI.

Puteoli certainly continued to enjoy under the 1

Empire the rank of a colony. (Plin. in. 5. s, 9;

OrelL Inscr. 1094,3097. &c.) In addition to the

original u colon la cirium" settled there, as already

mentioned, in b.c 194, it appears to hare received

a fresh colony under Sulla (Val. Max. ix. 3. § 8;

Pint. 5a//. 37; Zumpt, tie Colon, p. 260), and cer­

tainly was again colonised by Augu;>tus. {Lib. Col.

p. 236.) The inhabitants hail, as we learn from

Cicero {JPhU, ii. 41), warmly espoused the cause of

Brutus and Cassias after the death of Caesar,which

may have been one reason why Augustus sought to

secure so important a point with a colony of veterans.

But, jis was often the case, the old inhabitants seem

to have continued apart from the colonists, With

separate municipal rights, and it was not till the

reign of Nero that these also obtained admission

into the colony. (Tac. Ann. xiv. 27.) In a. D. G9

the Puteolani zcalou.vly espoused the cause of Ves­

pasian (Tat Hist. iii. 07), and it was probably in

consequence of this that the city afterwards assumed

the honorary title of '' Colonia Flavia Augusta

Putculi," by which we find it designated in inscrip­

tions. (Orel). Irtscr. 3G93; Zumpt, I.e. p. 395;

Monunsen, 2492. 2493.) It is not improbable, how­

ever, that it may at the same time have received a

fresh accession of colonists.

In addition to its commercial importance, rnteoli,

or rather its immediate neighbourhood, became,

before the close of the Republic, a favourite resort of

the Roman nobility, in common with Baiae and the

whole of this beautiful district. Thus Cicero, as we

learn from himself, had a villa there, to which he

gave the name of Acadcmia, but which he more

often mentions merely as his Puteolanum. (Cic. de

Fat. 1, ad Att. i. 4, xiv. 7, xv. 1, &c.) It passed

after his death into the hands of Antistius Vet us,

and the outbreak of a thermal spring there became

the occasion of a well-known epigram, which lias

been preserved to us by Pliny. (Plin. xxxi. 2. s. 3.)

This villa was situated between Puteoli and 1 ho

lake A vermis; it was subsequently chosen as the

place of burial of the emperor Hadrian. (Spart.

Badr. 25.)

We hear little of Puteoli in history during the

later periods of the Roman Empire, but them is

ever)- reason to suppose that it continued to be a

flour^hing and populous town. Its mole and port

were repaired by Antoninus Pius (Mommsen, laser.

249o), and numerous inscriptions hare been found

there, some of which belong to a late period, and

attest the continued importance of the city down to

the reign of Honor!US, (Mommsen, 2494—2500.)

But it shared to the full extent in the calamities of

the declining empire: it was taken and plundered

by Alaric in a. D. 410. and again by Generic in

455, and by Totila in 545. Nor did it ever recover

these repeated disasters. After having for some

time been almost deserted, it partially revived in the

middle ages; but again suffered severely, both from

the ravages of war and from the voleanic eruptions

of the Solj'atiiT-a in 119S, and of the Monte Nuovo

in 1538. At the present day PuzzwtlL though re­

taining its episcopal see. and about 8000 inhabitants,

is a poor place, and suffers severely from malaria in

summer.

It, however, retains many remains of its ancient

greatness. Among the>e one of the most conspi­

cuous is the amphitheatre, on the hill behind the

town, which is of considerable size, being larger

than thai at Pompeii, and calculated to be capable

of containing 25,000 spectators. It is in pwl ob­

servation, and, having been recently excavated aai

cleared out, affords in many respects a cood *f**

men of such structures. It derives »ddiu«al a>

terest from being more than once allowed to If

ancient writers. Thus Suetonius mentions uaj

Augustus presided at games there, and it m 4

consequence of an insult offered to a senator tU

Occasion that the emperor pasted a law asapdB

distinct seats to the senatorial urder. (Sue*-Jrf

44.) It was there ata> that Nero entertained Ts#

dates, king of Armenia, with magnificext thai

both uf gladiators and combats of *iid tavaj

(Dion Cass. Ixiii. 3.) Near the amphitheade I

some ruins, commonly known as the tempi

I>iana, but which more probably belonged tn si

of thermae or baths; as well as

reservoirs for water on a great scale, MM rfi

are supposed to have been connected with tl* I

of the amphitheatre. Near them are the;

of an aqueduct, intended for the supply of thai!

which seems to have been a branch of that 1

led to Misenum. In the city it.-elf tbf

cathedral is in great p^rt constructed ool i

remains of a Ron .an temple, w hich, as w

an inscription on the architrave, was

Augustus by L. Calpurnius, Fmin

script ion we learn that the architect «as L(

ceius Auctus, evidently the same who U teeMM

by Strabo as having been employed by A^rifM

construct the tunnel at Posiltpo. (Motnmsa^ifl

2484. 2485; Strab. v. p. 245.) The nuaasfl

of white marble, and there still remain fix keaflfl

Corinthian columns of the same material

Much more celebrated than these art the naal

of a building commonly known as the trafH

Serapis or Serapeum. The interest wluca aflfl

to these is, however, more of a scientific thaafl

quarian character, from the evidence tber i

repeated changes in the level of the soil i

they stand. (Lyell, Principle* of GnJagm, I

p. 4S9, &c.; Daubeny On Volcano**, p>!

The edifice is one of a peculiar character, s

received attribution is very doubtful

searches have rendered it more probable

a building connected with the mineral

rises within it, and was adapted both for j

worship and for the medical use of the i

question. The general plan U that of

quadrangular atrium or court, surrounded i

| by a portico of 48 columns, with ch.irr.bi

sides, und a circular temple in the

from the temple of Serapis are the

other buildings, both of them now under i

one of which is commonly known x» the

Neptune, the other as the temple of thel

but there is no real foundation for

We know, however, from Cicero that

temple of Neptune at Puteoli, as mi£bt i

expected at so freqnented a seaport, and

portico fronted the bay. (Cic. Acad, u 25.)'

remains of the ancient mole have been afavssf|

tioned; there are now portions of 16 piere 1

13 of which are still viable abore water.

On the coast proceeding from Foezw*St

Lucrine lake (or rather on the ancient

rises above t he low line of ca&t) are i

(with at least more probability than in i

cases) those of the villa of Cicero, i

tainly, as we learn from Pliny, situate

teoli and the Lucrine lake. (Pha xul 2. *>1

