VERULAMIUXI. 1281 VESONTIO.

inrient site is still occupied by the modern town of

Vtroli, wliich retains also some portions of the

ancirot walls in the polygonal or Cyclopean style.

(Wrstpbal, Rim. Kamp. p. 87; Abeken, MitttU

itulun, p. 147.) [E. H. B.J

VERULAMlfJM. [VKBOLAMiirM.]

VEHUB1UM (Ofopoupioy, Ptol. >L 5. § 7), a

town in the X. part of Lusitania, perhaps S. Vincent

it Bora. [T. U. D.]

VKASI'E (Oilnramrn, Ptol. vi. 2. § 12), a

lewn in Media Atropatene, perhaps the Bame as the

frarat Catbin. [V.]

VESCELIA, a town of the Oretani in Hispania

rimcaneiisis (Liv. xxxv. 22), perhaps Vilchct.

[lien, ii. pL i. p. 413.) [T. H. D.]

\ KSCELLIUM or VERCELHUM, a town of the

fiirjini, of uncertain site. Ita name is mentioned by

Liry (xxiii. 37) as having been recovered by the

jrartor M. Valerius, after it had revolted to the Car-

luynnians. The reading in Livy is very uncertain,

■ut Piiny also mentions the Vescellani among the

Municipal communities of the Hirpini. (1'iin. iii.

I s. 16.) [E. H. B.]

VtSCl KAVENT1A (OoWmr, Ptol. ii. 4. § II),

i tuwn iu Hispania Bactica, between Singili and

btigi. (PUn. iii. 1. a 3.) [T. H D.]

VKSCIA (£(A. Vescinus), a city of Latium, in

ht moat extended sense of that name, but ori-

iaaily a city of the Ausones, situated in a plain to

1* S. of the Liris (Garigliano). Livy in one pas-

«e tells us distinctly that the Ausones had three

ium, Aosona, Minturnae, and Vescia, all of which

'«e betrayed into the hands of the Romans by a

aity within their walls, and the inhabitants put to

I* sword in B. c. 314. (Liv. ix. 25.) The name

f Vearia is mentioned also about 25 years before

1 affording shelter to the remains of tlie Latin

m>y defeated by the consols Manlius and Decius

i a.0. 340. (Id. viii. 11.) But after the cap-

jj* of the city in 314, no mention of it again

-vans, and it is probable that it never recovered  
"» that calamity. Minturnae indeed is the

air one of these three cities which again appears

i history; but the "ager Vescinus" is repeatedly

wutioned (Liv. x. 20, 21, 31), and would seem

'hire extended from the banks of the Liris

i far as the extreme point of the ridge of Mount

Usicus. The Roman colony of Sinuessa, which

as situated just where that ridge abuts upon the

a, is expressly said to have been planted " in saltu

escina" (Liv. x. 21.) But all trace of the city

ems to hare been lost. Pliny does not even

nice the name among the extinct cities of Latium

ii Campaaia, and we are wholly without a clue to

s precise situation. [E. H. B.]

\ KSCITANIA, a district in Spain mentioned

Jy ty Pliny (iii. 3. s. 4). [Osca.] [T. H. D.]

VESDIANTIL [Vkdumtil]

VESERIS, a river of Campania, the name of which

known oaJy in connection with the great battle

u;bt with the Latins by T. Manlius Torqnatus and

l>rcius Mua, is. c. 340. That battle is described

Livy as having been fought "haud procnl ra-

nbiis Veauvii montia, qua via ad Veserim ferebat"

iii. 8), an expression which would leave us in

bt whether Veseris was the name of a town or

a river. In another passage he refers to the same

t'.le as having been fought "ad Veseriin " (x. 28);

»i Cicero also twice notices it as "pugna ad Ve-

ritn" or " apod Veserim." (Cic. de Fin. i. 7, de

f. iii. 31.) Valerius Maxim us uses the latter

VuL. II.

phrase (vi. 4. § 1). The only author whose ex­

pressions are free from ambiguity is Aurcliu* Vic­

tor, who distinctly speaks of that celebrated battle

as having been fought "apud Veserim fluvium"

(<fe Vvr. III. 28), and adds that the Romans had

pitched their camp on its banks (" positis apud Ve-

serim fluvium castris," lb. 26). The authority of

Victor is not indeed worth much on points of detail,

but there is no reason to reject it in this instance, as

it is certainly not at variance with the phrases of

Liry and Cicero. The Veseris was probably a small

stream, and is not mentioned on any other occasion,

or by any geographer, so that it is wholly impossible

now to identify it. [E. H. B.]

VESIO'NICA, a town of Umbria mentioned only

by Pliny, who names the Vesionicatea among the

municipal communities of that country. (Plin. iii.

14. s. 19.) It is supposed to be represented by

Civitelta di JBenezzone, in the upper valley of the

Tiber, 7 miles SE. of Perugia. (Oliver. Ittil. p.

627.) [E. H. B.]

VESO'NTIO (Oi)i<roVrioi<. Ptol. ii. 9. §21:

Baancon), in Gallia, the chief city of the Sequani.

The name occurs in Dion Cassius (xxxviii. 34, Ixiii.

24), where Reimarus has written Mtoovriawa for the

MSS. reading Qvwomiwva, without any reason. In

Ausonius (Gratiarum Act.) the form Visontio oc­

curs, and he speaks of a "municipalis schola " in the

place. The orthography of the wurd varied, as we

might expect; and other forms occur in Ammianus.

D'Anville says that the name is Vesant on a mile­

stone which bears the name of Trajan, and was found

at Mandeure [EpAMAaDtnuuituM, in which article

the name is incorrectly printed Vesont].

When Caesar (n. c. 58) was marching through

the country of the Sequani towards the German king

Arioristus, he heard that the German was intending

to occupy Vesontio, but Caesar got there before him

{/:. G. i. 38.) He describes the town as nearly

surrounded by the Doubt [Dews], and he says

that the part which was not surrounded by the

river was only 600 Roman feet wide. This neck of

land was filled by an eminence, the base of which on

each sido was washed by the river. There was a

wall along this neck of land, which made it a strong

fortress, and the wall connected the heights with the

town. Caesar's description is exact except as to the

width of the neck of land, which D'Anville says is

about 1500 Roman feet; and accordingly either

Caesar was mistaken, or there is an error in his text

in the numerals, which is always a possible thing.

Vesontio when Caesar took it was well supplied with

everything for war, and its position made it a strong

place. Caesar set out from Vesontio to fight the

German king, whom he defeated in the plain between

the Vusffet and the Rhine. The battle-field was

only 5 miles from the Rhine (it. G. i. 53, in which

passage the true reading is " milia pasuum... circiter

quinque," not "quinquaginta.'') In the winter of

n. c. 58—57 Caesar quartered his men among tiie

Sequani, and we may assume that Vesontio was ok-i

of the places where he fixed bis troops.

Vesontio has been several times sacked and de­

stroyed by Alemanni, by liuns, and others. It is a

town built on the ruins of former towns. The ground

has been raised above 20 feet, and where it has

been dug into, Roman remains, medals, and other

antiquities have been discovered.

The modern town of Bttancom consists of two

parts. The npper town, once called La Yilh. is built

on Die peninsula, and the citadel stands on the steep

4 *

