TITRACIA. THKACIA. 1187

crapoJoas monarch at once began his career of

irrrrarrjisement towards the east. He contrivod to

rf. possession of Amphipolis (b. c 358), and thus

Stained a secure footing from which he might ex-

f-ij his dominions in Thrace as opportunity offered.

Ki this time there were three native Thracian princes,

/rutubljr brothers, who seem to have mled over most

I lbs country. According to Justin (viii. 3), Be­

anies and Amadocua, two of them, chose Philip as

lift of their disputes; of which position he trea-

iierwuly availed himself to seize upon their domi-

t-tm. Though this statement is not supported, we

•turn, by any other ancient author, yet it is pro-

n'jlr true; for such conduct is highly characteristic

f the Macedonian monarch; and the almost entire

appearance from history of these Thracian princes

un after Philip's accession, would thus be ac-

Jinted for. Ceraobleptes, the third brother, who

ran to bare had the £. portion of Thrace,

a long struggle against his ambitious

In n. c. 357 lie ceded the Cherso-

ms to the Athenians, who sent a colony to

xupy it four years afterwards. [See Cerso-

urm, Vict. Biog. Vol. I. p. 674: Sestus.]

> .up it Tarioas times marched into Thrace, and

j<a:<iily defeated Ceraobleptes, whom he at length

«. c. 343) completely subdued and rendered tribu-

■n. Nut year he established colonies in the east-

n part of Thrace, and acts of hostility occurred

i'.*«n him and Diopeithes, the Athenian commander

that quarter. Philip was occupied the next three

■n in Thrace, and laid siege to Perinthus and

juntinm, which were in alliance with Athens,

forces, commanded by Phocion,compelled Philip

the sieges; and lie soon afterwards left

uric, to advance towards the south against the

ufodrrate Greeks. On bis departure Phocion re­

vered several of the cities in which Macedonian

irruona bad been placed.

Notwithstanding these checks, Philip bad brought |

•ir his command a great part of Thrace, especially

the south coast I he had, above all, completely in­

fested with his kingdom the district between

- .Strymon and the Kestua, and from the mines of  
« rangaeus, which he seized in B. c. 356, he ob- |

■wd abundant supplies of the precious metals.

I'hilip wss assassinated H. c. 336: next year his

":cmut, Alexander the Great, marched across the

jnas to attack the Triballi; but his chief atten-

a was bestowed upon the preparations for the

-itic expedition, which he entered upon next year,  
*»rijr the Hellespont from Sestus.  
Ob the death of Alexander (u. c. 323), Thrace

to Lysimachus, who was soon involved

with Seutbes, a king of the Odrysae.

« reader is referred to Uie account of Lysimachus

htt Biog. VoL II. pp.867—870] for details respect-

; hu government of Thrace: the result of his various

n was that his sway was 6rmly established over

the countries south of the Danube, as far as tbe

■ Sees of Macedonia; the Greek cities on the

ixioe were garrisoned by his troops; and though

fly of the native tribes, in the more inaccessible

tnets, no donbt retained their freedom, yet he

; cittipletely defeated all their attacks upon his

m. In u. c 309 he founded Lysimachia, near

aorthern extremity of the Cbersonesus and made

bis capital. Having engaged in a war with Se­

em, the ruler of Syria, he advanced to meet his

nist in Asia, and was defeated and slain at

(b. c. 281), upon which Seleucus passed

over into Europe and took possession of Thrace.

Next year, however, he was assassinated by Ptolemy

Ceraunus, who was thereupon acknowledged king;

but shortly afterwards a vast horde of Celts invaded

the country, and Ptolemy was slain in a battle with

them. Anarchy now prevailed for some years in the

country: the Celts again advanced to the south in

B. c 279, and under Brennus penetrated as fur as

Delphi, on their repulse from which they retreated

northwards, and some of them settled on the coast

of Thrace.

For nearly fifty years after this time little mention

is made of Thrace in history; it appears to have

been annexed to Macedonia; but the rulers of that

kingdom were too insecure, even in their central do­

minions, to be able to exercise much control over

snch a country as Thrace, inhabited now by races

differing so widely as the Thracians, the Greeks, and

the Celts, and offering so many temptations to the

assertion of independence. [See Artioorus Gora-

tas, Demetrius II., and Pyhruus, in Diet. Biog.']

About b.c. 247, the fleet of Ptolemy Euergetea

captured Lysimachia and other important cities on

the coast; and they remained for nearly half a cen­

tury under the kings of Egypt. (Polyb. v. 34, 58.)

In B. c. 220, Philip V. ascended the throne of

Macedonia. Under him the Macedonian power re­

gained something of its old prestige; and had it not

been brought in collision with Rome, it might have

become as extensive as in former times. But Philip

unfortunately directed his ambitious views in the

first instance towards the West, and thus soon en­

countered the jealous Republic. It was not till B.C.

211 that Philip commenced his enterprises against

Thrace: he then led an army into tbe country of tbe

M&etli, who were in the habit of making incursions

into Macedonia. Their lands were laid waste, and

their capital, lamphorina, compelled to surrender.

Having made peace with the Romans (n. c. 205), he

invaded Thrace, and took Lysimachia. In B.C. 200,

be again attacked that country, both by sea and

land; and it is evident that he did not anticipate

much resistance, since he took with him only 2000

infantry and 200 cavalry. Yet with this insignifi­

cant force, aided by the fleet, he made himself

master of the whole of the south coast, and of the

Chersonesus. lie then laid siege to Abydoe, and

after a desperate resistance took it (Liv. xxxi. 16).

This seems to hsve hastened the declaration of war

on the part of the Romans ; a war which lasted till

B.C. 196, when Philip was reduced to procure peace

by surrendering all his conquests, and withdrawing

his garrisons from the Greek cities (Liv. xxxiii. 30).

L. Stertinius was sent to see that these terms were

complied with (ii. 35). But scarcely bad the cities

been evacuated by the Macedonian garrisons, when

Antiochus tbe Great crossed the Hellespont, and

took possession of the Chersonesus, which he claimed

as a conquest of Seleucus (to. 38). He refused to

comply with the demand of the Romans, that be

should withdraw his army from Europe ; but left

his son Seleucus to complete the restoration of

Lysimachia, and to extend his influence, which seems

to have been done by placing garrisons in Maroneia

and Aenus.

In the war which ensued between the Romans and

Antiochus (b. c 190), Philip rendered the former

good service, by providing everything necessary for

their march through Thrace, and securing them from

by the native tribes (Liv. xxxvii. 7).

Antiochus was defeated by Scipio at Magnesia, and

4 e a

