712 RHODIA. RHODAXUS.

Lyon downwards is generally flat, but there are

several parts where the rocks rise right above the

water, and in these places the railway from Lyon

to Marseille is cut in the rocks close to the river.

At St. Andtol, a small town on the west bank above

the Ardi'chc, the plain country begins on the west

side of the Rhone. On the east side the hills are

seen in the distance. From one of the middle-age

towers built on the amphitheatre of Aries, there is a

view of the great plain which lies all round that

city to the north, west, and east, and stretches south­

ward to the coast of the Mediterranean. The two

large affluents of the Rhone on the east side are the

Jsire (Isara) and the Durance (Druentia).

The Rhone was earlier known to the Greeks and

Romans than any other of the large rivers of Western

Euioj>e. The oldest notices of this river must have

coine from the Phocaeans and the Greeks of Mas-

si lia. What Avicnus has collected from some source

(Or. Marit. G23—690) is unintelligible. Pliny

(iii. 4) very absurdly derives the name Rhodanus

from a town which he names Rhoda; but the name

Rhodanus is older than any city, and, like the names

of other European rivers, it is one of the oldest

memorials that we have of the languages of the

West. Polybius (iii. 47) supposed that the Rhone

rose further east than it does, but he knew that it

flowed down a long valley (aoAwf) to the west,

though he does not mention the Lake of Genera.

Ploleiny (ii. 10), the latest of the classical geo­

graphers, had no exact notion of the sources of the

Rhone, though the Romans long before his time

must have known where to look for them. He

makes the sources of the Arar come from the Alps,

by which the Jura is meant, and in this statement and

what he says of the course of the Arar and Dubis he

may have followed Strabo(iv. p. 1SG), as it has been

supposed. The blunders about the sources of this

river are singular. Mela (iii. 3) mentions the Da-

nubius and Rhodanus among the rivers of Germany;

and in another passage he says that it rises not far

from the sources of the Isterand the Rhenus (ii. 5).

There is much dilVerence in the statements about

the number of the mouths of the Rhone. Tnnaeus.

quoted by Strabo (p. 183), says that there were

five outlets, for which Polybius repmves Timaeus.

and says then; were only two. Polybius (iii. 41)

names the eastern branch the Massaliotic. Artemi-

dorus, as cited by Strabo, made five mouths. Strabo

does not state how many he supposed that there

were. He says that above the mouths of the Rhone,

not far from the sea. is a lake called Stomalimne,

which some make one of the outlets of the Rhone,

and those particularly do who enumerate seven out­

lets of the river. But he shows that this was a

mistaken opinion. Caesar built ships at Arelate

when he was going to besiege Massilia, and he

brought them down the river to that city, and by

the eastern branch, as we may assume.

The Rhone was navigated by the people on its

banks at the time when Hannibal with his army

came to cross it, ami much earlier. Polybius is the

earliest extant writer who has given us any precise

information about this river. Hannibal (B.C. 218)

crossed it at a point above the division of the stream,

and of course higher than Aries, for we assume

that the bifurcation was not hicher than that city

in his time, if it ever was. (Polyb. iii, 43.) He

probably crossed the river at Beaucairc and below

the junction of the Gardvn. He then marched

northwards on the east side of the river to the In-

Isula. [Insula Allobrooum.] Mod his t#n

, written on this passage of Polybius tod m Lr

(xxi.), who also describes the same passive. {U

'March of Hannibai from the fihone (> lit Ay

| by H. L. Long, Esq., 1831; Ukert, GoUte*. p. iti

&.C.; and the modern writers quoted by each.)

Pliny (iii. 4) enumerates three mouths rftixEha

He calls the two smaller ** Libvcar (if theroisr

right): one of these is the HLspanier.se as. *&£ti i

may assume to be the nearest to ^pMU; the <ia

is Metapinum, and the third and hrj«; i» *J

Massaliot. Some modem maps repr*s?T.i

mouths of the river. Ptolemy (ii. 10) iwaa*

only a western and an eastern mouth, tfid be cab

a mistake in placing the Fossae iUrunae [Fu*i

MakiaNAe] west of the western month. 13

channels of the Rhone below Arks may ^

changed in some parts, even in historical pmsks

the bed of the river above Arlts has alran ba

where it is now. But there is no evidence if I

great changes in the river's course svxt ix a

when Polybius wrote, though it is certain tat 3

alluvium brought down the river muit to?? I

larged the Delta of the Rhone,

The canal of Man us, which was on thee&sdi

the eastern outlet of the Rhone, is describee nai

Fossa Mariana: and the stony plaio a satfi

under Lapidei Campl

RHODANU'SIA. Pliny (iii. 4^ menu* to

in Gallia Narbonensia as a colony of the Kba

, He places it on the coast east of AcatM-M

and says that it gave the name to tbefchaitf

[Rhodanus.] Hieronymus. in his Proke»»i

Second Epistle to the Galatians, copies Puny 1

may be the place which Stephanos (t r, Ptf&*^

names Rhodanusia, and calls u a city in 3U«ii

by which the Mnssiliotic territory must bf sat

The passage in Strabo (it. p. 180) tV K 1

yAya6rif To7i, in which he intends to jpeak rfi

of the Masailiotic settlements, is corrupt. C**d

( Comment, in Strab. p. 83) sometimes tbctrs 4

we ought to read tV 5e 'PoSnr ko! 'Ay?**

Groskurd (Strab. Transl. i. p. 310) ihsb i

Pliny has called this place Rhoda becstae b»«

, founded it with Rhode or Khodus in Pm*.

j he does not mention. He observes thai Seym

I (v. 208), Stephanas, and Sidouius Apuiasw

5) rightly name it Rhodanusia; and be ha* *' ^

that Strabo wrote it so. But it is by » ■

certain that Strabo did write it so, G™tos»

gument is this: there never was a t<>»a £><l

Gallia, and Strabo mentions the Iberian 1^

Khodus. Since then Strabo is acquaintes'

places, he has not made a mistake hk?

rather must we with Yossius (Aote om i

alter the corrupt 'P6nv into 'PoSofwciw ■

Koray is mistaken in rejecting *P*w» mita.*^*

not genuine. We know nothing of this liatixal

or Khodanusia. The place is gone and his id

trace. [6.1*

RHODE. [Rhodavuka.]

RHODE FLUV1US. [Sagakis.]

RHO DIA ( PtfSta: Eth. Po5.««). s

Lycia. situated in the mountains on the wi

Corydallus. (Steph. B. s. v,; Ptcl *. 3. § i: I

Cod. 176.) At the time when Col. Uab"

his work on Asia Minor (p. 186) the s»

town was not yet ascertained, and >*: C

did not examine the district; but the iamji

which have since been found fix its site at 1

now called Esld Hissar. (Spratt sad FurUa> <

