TAURIS. TAUROMENIUM. 1113

ifescending into the plains of Italy, found the

auriai on hostile terms with the Instibres, and, in

xacqoence, turned his arms against them, took

>*ir principal city, and put the inhabitants to tho

wjpL (PoL iii. 60; Lit. xxi. 38,39.) Neither

>b;os nor Livj mention the name of this city,

n Appian calls it Taurasia (Annib. 5): it was

■ situated on the same site which was after-

anii occupied by the Roman colony. The name of

.f Taurini is not once mentioned during the long

*rs of the Romans with the Cisalpine Gauls and  
icurianj, and we are ignorant of the time when they

■ passed under the Roman yoke. Nor have we

i* precise account of the foundation of the Roman

luy in their territory which assumed the name of

ngusia Taurinorum, though it is certain that this

•K place under Augustus, and it was doubtless con-

*t*d with his final subjugation of the Alpine tribes  
a.c.8. From this time the name of the Tau-

;i never again appears in history as that of a

ople ; but daring the latter ages of the Roman

npire the city of Augusta Taurinorum seems to

Tr been commonly known (as was the case in

wy instances in Transalpine Gaul) by the name

the tribe to which it belonged, and is called simply

wnni in the Itineraries, as well as by other writers,

fi*. Mat p. 341; ten. Uier. p. 556; Tab. Pent.;

..u.ian. xt. 8. § 18.) Hence its modern name uf

rmo or Tttrm. This is the only city that we can

tfn with any certainty to the Taurini. On the

. their territory was bounded (at least in the days

Augustus) by the Segu&iam and the other tribes

bject to Cut tins ; and their limit in this direction

d-mhtless marked by the station Ad Fines, situ-

■d 18 uiilet from Augusta, on the road to Segusio

in. Ant. lc). But it appears probable that at

earlier period the nation of the Taurini was more

*r*j spread, or their name used hi a mure com-  
■-rii.Te s+nsc, to as to comprise the adjoining

«n of the Alps; for Livy speaks of the Insubrian

jIi who crossed into Italy, *' per Taurinos sultus-

c iuvi«jt> Alnes tninacendernnt" (Liv. r. 34), and

abj, in enumerating, after Poly bins, the passes

the Alps, designa es one of them as tV 5ia

»pwir (Strab. it. p. 209.). Whether the pa.-**

-t meant is the Mont Genivre or the Mont CenU  
uach disputed point), it would not be included

~m the territory of the Taurini in the more re-

\ sense, [E. H. B.]

TAL'UISh an island of the Ionian sea, between

*rus and Corcyra, opposite to the NW. point of  
praiuaula of Hyllis and the mouth of the Naron.

'at. B. A. 47.) Now Torcola. [T. H. D.]

TAlRISCL [Noriclm, Vol. II. p. 447.]

TAUKOEIS, TAUROE'NTIUM (To^Jc.s, Tav-

rr*w: Ktk. TavpvivTtot). Steph. B. (*. r. Tau-

•i), who calls it a Celtic town and a colony

tie Mswliots, quotes the first book of Arte*

i-n»' geography for a foolish explanation of the

no of the name. The place is mentioned by

eaar (B. C. ii. 4), who says "Tauroenta quod

raatellam Massiheasium perveniunt;" by Strabo

pp.l80,184),byScymnus Cbius,and by Ptolemy

10. § S\ who places it between Massilia and

Aariatea Prornontorium. D'Anville erroneously

[<mem that Caesar uses Tauroenta for the plural

^.ber ; but it is the accuNative of Tuuroeis. Strabo

-p- 184) enumerates the Massaliot settlements be-  
■en Musilia and the Varus in this order: Tauro-

Jam, Olbia, Anti polls Nicaea, Mela (ii. 5) enume-

<u the places on this coast in a different order

from east to wc.it: Athenopolis, Olbia, Tauroin,

Citharistes, and li Lacy dun Massiliensium port us."

Ptolemy, as we have seen, places Tauroeis between

Massilia and Citharistes. In the Maritime Itin. the

positions 1 etween Telo Marti us (Toulon) and Im-

madrus seem to be out of order [Immadkus]; and

they are to be placed thus — Aemines (Embitz),

Tauroeis(Taurenti), Citharista [Citii AitisTA].Car-

sici (Cassis), Immadrus, Massilia. Geographers

have been much divided in opiniou on tiie site of

Tauroeis, but the modern name seems to determine

the place to be at the right of the entry of the bay

of Ciotat. [G. L.J

TAUROME'NIUM (Javpouiviov; Eth. Tovpo-

ficv'iTwt, Tauromenilanus: Taonnma), a Greek city

of Sicily, situated on the E. coast of Sicily, about

midway between Messana and Cat ana. It was only

about 3 miles from the Mte of the ancient Naxos,

and there is no doubt that Tauromenium did not

exist as a city till after the destruction of Naxos by

Dionysius of Syracuse, b. c. 403; but the circum­

stances connected with its foundation are somewhat

confused and uncertain. [Naxos.] It appears,

however, from Diodorus that after the destruction of

Naxos, the remaining inhabitants of that city were

driven into exile, and its territory was assigned by

Dionysius to the neighbouring Siculi. These, how­

ever, did not re-occupy the site of the ancient city,

but established themselves on a hill to the N. of it,

which was called the hill of Taurus (6 \u<poi A *ro-

\oufAfvos Tavpos), Here they at first constructed

only a temporary camp (in B.C. 396), but after­

wards erected walls and converted it into a regular

fortress or town, to which they gave the name of

Tauromenium. (Diod. xiv. 58, 59.) The place

was still in the hands of the Siculi in b. c. 394,

and they held it against the efforts of Dionysius,

who besieged the city in vain fur great part of the

winter, and though he on one occasion forced his

way within the walls by a nocturnal surprise, was

again driven out and repulsed with heavy loss. (Ib.

87, 88.) But by the peace concluded in b. c. 392,

it was expressly stipulated that Tauromenium should

be subject to Dionysius, who expelled the greater

part uf the Siculi that had settled there, and supplied

their place with his own mercenaries. (Ib. 96.)

From this time we hear no more of Tauromenium

till n. c. 358, when we are told that Andromachus,

the father of the historian Timaeus, brought to­

gether all the remains of the exiled Naxians, who

were still scattered about in different parts of Sicily,

and established them all at Tauromenium. (Id. xvi.

7.) This is related by Diodorus as if it were a new

foundation, aisd even as if the name had then first

been applied to the city, which is in direct contra­

diction with his former statements. What had In­

come of the former inhabitants we know not, but

there is little doubt that the account of this re­

settlement of the city is substantially correct, and

that Tauromenium now for the first time became a

Greek city, which was considered as taking the

place of Naxos, though it did not occupy the same

site. (Wesseling, ad Diod, xiv. 59.) Hence Pliny's

expression, that Tauromenium had formerly been

called Naxos (Plin. iii. 8. a, 14) is nearly, though

not strictly, correct.

The new settlement seems to have risen rapidly to

prosperity, and was apparently already a consider­

able town at the time of the expedition of Timoleon

in B.C. 345. It was the first place in Sicily where

that leader landed, having eluded the vigilance of

