916 SAttMATIA. SARMATIA.

Of these there might be any amount,— their occur­

rence in different and distant parts by no means

implying migrations.

The A varolii may be placed in Galllcia.

South of them come the Ombrones, and the

Anarto-phracti. Are these the Amartes of Caesar?

The Aimrtes of Caesar were on the eastern confines

of the Hercynian forest (Bell. Gall. vi. 24, 25), con­

terminous with the Daei, a fact which, taken along

with the physical conditions of the country, gives us

WiMe.m Gallicia, or Austrian Silesia, fur the Aimr-

to-phracti. Then come the liurgiones, then the Ar-

sitetae (comjHire with Aorsi), then the Saboki, then

the PicnL'itae, and then the Ilessi, along the Car­

pathian Mountains. GalVwia, with parts of Yolhynia,

and Podolia give us ample room for these obscure,

and otherwise unnamed, population*.

The populations of the second column lie to the

east of those just enumerated, beginning again

with the Venedi (virb rovs OlnvtSas iri\tv). Yilna,

Grodno, with parts of Minsk, Yolhynia, Podolia,

and Kiev give us an area over which we have six

names to distribute. Its southern boundary are the

Peueinian mountains (liukhovinia f).

(1.) The Galindae. — These are carried too far

east, i.e. if we arc right in identifying them with

the Galinditae of the Galamlia and Golem of the

middle ages, who are East Prussians on the Spir-

ding Lake.

('2.) The Sudeni.— These, again, seem to be the

*SWo-vitae (the termination is non-radical in several  
Prussian names) conterminous with the Galinditae,

but to the north-east of them. Their district is

called Sudovia,

(3.) The Stavani—Concerning these, we have

the startling statement, that they extend as far as

the Alauni (m*XP* T®v 'AXavvuv). Is not "AAowm

an erroneous name developed out of some form of

TaAii'-Sai? The extension of either the Stavani to

Caucasus, or of the Alani to Prussia, is out of the

question.

(4.) The Igylliones.— Zeuss has allowed himself

(s. v. Jazicingt) to hold that the true form of this

word is 'lTU77iwfes, and to identify this with a

name that appears in so many forms as to make

almost any conjecture excusable, — Jazicingi, Jac-

icitiai, Jaczwinai, Jecwesin, Getuinzitae, Geticezitae,

Jf-ntuisianes, Jtntuosi, Jacintiones, Jatwjazi, Jat-

wjezi, or Getwcsia, and Gotirez'ta, all actual forms.

The area of the population, which was one of the

most powerful branches of the Lithuanian stock in

the 13th century, was part of Grodno, Minsk, and

Yolhynia, a, locality that certainly suits the Igyl­

liones.

(;'>.) The Costoboci in Podolia.

(G.) The Transmontani. — This is a name from

the Latin of the Dacians,—perhaps, however, a trans­

lation of the common Slavonic Za-volovskaje, i. e,

ocer-the-wutershed. It was applied, perhaps, to

the population on the northern frontier of lMcia in

general.

The third list, beginning also with the Venedi,

follows the line of the Baltic from Yilna and Cottr-

land towards Fin land, and then strikes inland, east­

wards and southwards. Immediately on the Veoedic

golf lie the

(1) Veltae (OfoArai). Word for word, this is the

Vylte and Wilzi of the middle ages; a form which

appears as early as Alfred. It was German, i. e.

applied by the Franks to certain Slavonic population.

U was also native, its plural being Wektabi Few

nations stand out more prominently tan thai

Wilts of the Carlovingian period. Tfeer tie,

ever, to the west of Prussia* and indeed d"

rania, from which the Oder divided tb«o. Is

they were in Mecklenburg, rather thin

or Esthania, like the Veltae of Tacitus. Wad

word, however, the names are the sun. Ti» sy­

nonym for these western Wiltae or Wtla&ii

Liut-ici (LuHczi). This we know frren fpm*l i»

dcnce. A probable synonym for the Yeltseef Ts

w;is also some form of Lit: This »e infer

their locality being part sf the present IM-\

and /.- !7-land. Add to this that one writer|

(Adam of Bremen) places Wilzi in the

Ptolemy's Veltae. The exact expianatim ef

double appearance of a pair of names U

It is safe, however, to place the Veltae is i^*-*afl

i. e. in the southern parts of Lironia, and V"**^

in parts of Lithuania Proper and Cowland. Ossj

stantine Porphyrogeneta mentions thera »Y«

North of the Veltae —

(2.) The Osii (Ossii). probably in the sJ

Oesei It should be added, however, the rat

wes~, appears frequently in the geography of

Osilii, as a name for the occupants of Oestl,

early in mediaeval history.

(IS.) The Carbones, north of the OsiL Tail

name of many explanations. It may be tbt

word for forest = Carbo. It may be the rat

(or A'-r), which appears in a great number «/

words.— Coralli (Karelian), Cur- (in '"r-*iJ

Kur- (in Kur-sk), &c. The forms Cwwa

Curonia ( Courland) approach it, but the

south instead of north. It more probably^

It almost certainly shows that we harepanei

the country of the Slavonians and Li:hi

that of the Ksthonians, Ingrians, and Fi

Then, to the east,—

(4.) The Kar-eotae. — Here the Aor- a

common Finn root as before. Any part of

vernment of Nocogorod or Olonttz misht ban

plied the name, the present Finns of brth

to the A'arelian division of the name (the -ek

non-radical). Then —

(5, 6, 7, 8. 9, 10, 11. Ac) The Safi, M

whom the Agathyrsi, then the Aorsi aad I

ritae, soutli of whom the Sarah, and BVo

far as the Khipaean mountains. Then tat

and Xaski, south of whom the Vibiooe* sad

and south of the Vit-i.>i;es. a- fa: a- '. 5 A

the Stumt. Between the AUuni and Baa

the Karyoncs aud Sargatii. At the bead <

Tanais the Ophlones and Tanaitae.

There are few points in this li>t which an>

The bend of the Tanais (=/>rm) would

Ophlones in Ekaterinoslav, The Burusci. if

reached the Rhipaean mountains, and if

the Uralian rather than the 1 'tiidax range,a

extended far beyond both European and

Sarmatia. The Savari bear a name Tery

in Nestor — the Sjevera, on the

Sula,— a word that may merely mean

is a name that reappears in Caucasus —

The Aorsi may be the Ersad (the d a

ional), a branch of the Mr.lv,:>, orcapaal

present time of a tract an the Ofaa. The

may have been the tribes on (jh> =om) taw

such compounds being commoi

TVlabi (on the Elbe), Po- morajua (rw the

The whole geography, however, is

certain.

