TREIA. K'25 TRERES.

uffenates," PJin. it 1!. s. 17). Its cite is dearly

in] at Monte Leone, sometimes called Monk

tone delta Sabina, a village about 2 miles on the

:.-it of the Via Solaria, between Otteria Nuova.

ui I'oyyio S. Lorenzo. Here there are considerable

.uni, including those of a theatre, of thermae or

ithi, and portions of the ancient pavement. Seve-

il inscriptions have also been found here, some of

li ch hive the name of the people, " Plebs Trebu-

iaa," "Trebulani Mutuscani," and "Trebulaut

lat," so that no donbt can reinaia of their attribu-

na. (Chanpy, ilaison d Horace, vol iii. pp. 93—

6: Orell. /Wr.923, 3442, 3963.) As this Menu

j hive been much the most considerable place of

v two, it is probably tliat meant by Strabo, who

.er.tiuns Trebula without any distinctive adjunct

ut in conjunction with Eretum (Smb. v. )i. 228).

ix Liber Coloniarum also mentions a "Tribule,

luuxipium" (p. 268) which is probably the same

l»t Martial also alludes to Trebula as situated

n»»ig cold aud damp mountain valleys (v. 72), but

: i» nut certain which of the two places he here refers

• Virgil speaks of Mutusca as abounding in olives

• uurifcreeque Muluscae," A en. vii. 711), which is

nil the case with the neighbourhood of Monte

•a, and a village near it beam in consequence

lie name of Olivetti.

2. Thkhi'LA Suffknas, the name of which is

ii.iwu only from Piny, is of very uncertain site,

'iiuipy would place it at Mocea SinibaLli, in the

alley of the 7«rtrao, but this is mere conjecture,

imttani on the other hand fixes it on a hill near

"now, between Rieti and Term, where there are

ad to be distiucl traces of an ancient town. (Cliaupy,

c; Gaattaui Man. delta Sabina, vol. i. p. 190.)

I u probable tliat the Tribula (TpiCoAa) of Diotiy-

iiii. mentioned by him among the towns assigned

t Varro to the Aborigines (Dionys. i. 14) may be

ix sunt with the Trebula Suffering of Pliny. In

tin case we know that it could not be far from

[sue. [E. U. B.]

HIEIA (ElA. Treiensis: Ru. near Trrja), a inu-

icipal town of Picenum, situated on the let! bank of

river Potentia, about 9 miles below Septempeda

& Sevarmo) and 5 above Kicina. Pliny is the

r.h geographer that mentions it; but it is probable

iut the Tpalara of Ptolemy is only a corruption of

a came. (Mia. iii. 13. a. IB; Ptol. iii. 1. § 52.) The

naeoaea are enumerated by Pliny among the mu-

iciuil oosununities of Picenrun, and the municipal

ink ef the town is further attested by several in-

-nptions. (Orell. Inter. 516, 3899.) It seems in-  
*wi to have been a considerable place. The Iti-  
wary of Antoninus places it on the branch of the

ia Klaminia which led direct to Ancona: it was

miles from Septempeda and 18 from Auxiinuin.

Itiu-AnL p. 312.) Cluverius says tliat he could

uJ do trace either of the place or the name; but

be ruins were pointed out by HolsU-nius as still

tilling on tlie left bank of the l'otema, at the

•t of the hUl occupied by the village of Montecchio.

.> Utter place has since adopted the ancient name

t Trrja, and having been augmented by the popu-

>:.'jr. ot several neighbouring villages, is now be­

sets a considerable town. (Cluver. lial. p. 738;

loUten. Aot ad Chit. p. 136.) [E. H. B.l

TUEMERUS INS. [Diomkdkak Insular.]

lKE'MlTHUS (Tpfuieovi, Stepli. B. «. r.; Iff.

iteWi, Ptol. v. 14. § 6 ; TpiuuSot, Constant, de

Them. i. li, p. 39, ed. Bonn ; TpemtowToie, llierocl.

707: Ltk TmiusWiw, Tocui^oToAirnt), a

town in the interior of Cyprus, was" the seat of a

bishopric and a pUco of some importance in the By­

zantine times. According to the Pentingcr Table it

was 18 miles from Salamis, 24 from Citium, and 24

from Tamassus. Stcphanus B. calls it a village of

Cyprus, and derives it* name from the turpentine

trees (rtpitirtoi) which grew in its neighbourhood.

(Engcl, Kyproi, vol. i. p. 148.)

TRE'MULA, a town in Mauritania Tingitana.

(//in. Ant. p. 24.) Variously idcutificd with JCznd-

tchen and Sot el Campa. [T. II. D.]

TREPONTIUM or TKIPUNTIUM, a place on

the AppUn Way near the entrance of the Pontine

Marshes, 4 miles nearer Rome than Forum Appii.

It is not mentioned as u station in the Itineraries,

but we leant from an inscription of the time of

Trajan that it was from thence the part of the

road which was restored by that emperor began.

This important work, as we are informed by another

inscription, was continued for nineteen »is/e#, a

circumstance tliat explains the origin of the name

of Dkckknovium, which occurs at a later periud in

connection with the Pontine Marshes, l'rocopius

calls the Deccnnovium a river; but it is evident

that it was in reality an artificial cut or cuual, such

as must always have accoiiijauiied the highroad

through these marshes, and as we know already

existed in the days of Horace from Korum Appii.

The importance of this work will account for the

circumstance tliat we find the Pontine Marshes

themselves called by Cassiodorus 44 Deceunovii I'a-

ludes." (Cassiod. I'ur. ii. 32, 33; Procop. B. G. i.

11.) The site of Tn-pontium is clearly marked at

tlie distance of 39 miles from Rome, by the name of

7'orre di Treponti, together with the remains oi the

3 ancient bridges, from which it derives its name

(Cliaupy, Maiton d'J/orace, vol. iii. pp. 387—392;

D'Auville, Anaiytt de lltalie, pp. 184—187.)

The inscriptions above cited are given by Sir

a Hoare, Clou. Tour, vol i. pp. 97, 98; and by

the Aboe" Cliaupy (i c). The name of TpawoV-

tmmv, found in Strabo (v. p. 237) among the cities

on the left of the Appiau Way, can liardly be other

than a corruption of Trepouuum, but it is wholly

out of place in that passage, and is supposed by

Kramer to be an interpolation. [E. H. B.j

TRERES (Tpypti), a people repeatedly mentioned

by Strabo, generally as a tribe of, or at least, sa

closely connected with, the Cimmerii, but in a few

passages as Thracians. They are not named by

Homer or Herodotus. Strabo was evidently unde­

cided whether to regard them as a distinct race, or

aa identical with the Cimmerii, in whose company

they several times made destructive inroads into

Asia Minor. "The Cimmerii, whom they name

Treres also, or some tribe of them, often overran

the southern shores of the Euxine and the adjuining

countries, sometimes throwing themselves upon the

Paphlagonians, at other times upon the Phrygians,

at the time when they say Midas died from drinking

bull's blood. And Lygdami* led his army as far

as Lydia and Ionia, and took Sardes, but perished

in Cilicia. And the Cimmerii and Treres often

mode such expeditions. But they say tliat the

Treres and Cobus [their leader] were at last

driven out [of Asia] by Madys, the king of tlie

Scythians."* (Strab.i. p. 61). "Calliatbenes states

* The reading in the tut is wro Moooot too  
tw Kiujuplur 6a<riAwf; but as just before we

find MdJvoi too XkuOuxov, we can have no hesiu-

