ODRVSAE. 4'.'. OEANTHEIA.

ic.4i lUr king Sadiles, who bod no children,

iriMthed bis kingdom to the Romans, and pos-

mim «» taken of it by Brutus. (Cues. B. C.

a (; DwnCias. ilvii. 25; Lucan, v. 54.)

Aurajuu Kerns to hare left the Odrysians the

viruuct of independence, In the year B. c. 29,

I retors for the friendly disposition which they had

«iiTc kwirdi the Romans, they were presented by

ILCoem with a territory hallowed by the worship

it Biotas, which he had conquered from the Bessi

(heCau. li. 25). In the year B.c. 20, Rhoe-

mlilm, who wis administering the kingdom as

rariiu of the three infant sons of the deceased

SMartfl G&ji IV., succeeded, with the assistance of

u* Bmcius under M. Lollius, in reducing the Bessi

(//lit.M) A few yean afterwards, the Bessi

Vi: rw under their leader Vologaeses, a priest of

hr&m, lad drove Rhoematalces into the Cher-

the; were, however, soon reduced to submis-

»• ir Ltriog piso; Rhoematalces was restored;

ad t stand appear, from Tacitus, that under his

i*JrT)iins aciiuijevl the dominion (if ail

Ikut (Dion Can. liv. 34; Tac. ^nn. ii. 64).

Tea isjarat prosperity was, however, entirely de-

**!<•' « the Romans, by whose influence they  
** .irtmed. Thus, after the death of Rhoema-  
ftasa, we find Augustus dividing his kingdom be-

*»» bit too Cotys and his brother Rhascuporis  
Veil. Pat. H. 98). Again, after the mur-

■f"' Cetye by Rhascuporis, Tiberius partitioned the

Osjtia between the children of Cotys and Rhoe-

*£^- fa. mo of Rhascuporis, at the same time ap-  
P**t » Human, Trebellienus Rufus, as guardian

''a* truer, who were not of age (Tac. Ann. ii.

C ti. 30). But, in spite of their subjection, the

■it! / the Odrysians was not subdued. Two years

'tat event just recorded, they rose, in conjunc-

vub tie Coeletae, against the Romans, as well

■at their own king Rhoematalces, whom they

v*d a Pbdlippepolia. This rebellion, which was

tiia by leaders of little distinction, and con-

el wnhont concert, was soon quelled by P. Vel-

(Tat .1m. in. 39). A more formidable one

p P** A.D. 26, which Tacitus ascribes to the

■pas of the Thracian tribes to supply the

c may with recruits, as well as to the native

? if the people. It occasioned the Romans

arable, arid I'oppaeus Sabinus was rewarded

W l»> triumphal insignia for his services in aup-

irs(/l iv. 46—51). At length, under the

tf Vespasian, the Odrysians were finally de-

•a <l their isdependence, and incorporated with

'~ ..f the Ionian empire (Suet.

». Cuonp. vii. 19).

IS* tnosdiag sketch those circumstances only

leierteu which illustrate the history of the

a people, without entering into the

-J el their monarchs. The following  
** "r '"he dynasty; an account of the different  
■wis oawpoM it will be found in the Diet, of

"«f Mjthol under the respective heads. 1.

I Siuicrs. 3. Seutbea I. 4. Medocus

w) with Maesades. 5. Seuthes II. 6.

Cernbkeptea, with Amadocus and Be-

I l Swathe* 111 9. Cotys II. 10. Cotys

II Sadalea. 12. Cotys IV. 13. Rhoema-

!■ 14 Cetvj V. and Rhascuporis. 15. Rhoe-

l 16! Cotys VI.

"Oea of the Odrysians partook of that

«d ieroaty which was common to all the

Jttes, and which made their name a by-

word among the Greeks and Romans; but the horrible

picture drawn of them by Ammianus Marccllinus

(xxvii. 4. § 9) is probably overcharged. Like most

other barbarous nations of the north, they were ad­

dicted to intoxication, and their lung drinking bouts

were enlivened by warlike dances performed to a

wild and barbarous music. (Xen. Anab. vii. 3. § 32.)

Hence it is characteristic that it was considered a

mark of the highest distinction to be a table com­

panion of the king's; but whoever enjoyed this honour

was expected not only to drink to the king, but also

to make him a present {lb. 16, seq.) Among such ■

people,we are not surprised to find thatDionysus seems

to have been the deity most worshipped. They had

a custom of buying their wives from their parents,

which Herodotus (v. 6) represents as prevailing

among all the Thracian tribes. [T. H. D.l

ODRYSUS. [Hadrianopolis.]

ODYSSEIA fOStWfia, Strab.iii. pp. 149, 157;

'OSwo-fii, Steph. B. s. r.), a town of Hispania Bae-

tica, lying N. of Abdera, and, according to tradition,

built by Ulysses, together with a temple to Athene.

By Sollnus (c. 23) and others it has been absurdly

identified with Olisipo (Lisbon); but its site, and even

its existence, are altogether uncertain. [T. H. D.]

OEA (Pomp. Mela, i. 7. § 5; Oeensis civita-,

Plin. v. 4; Tac. Hint iv. 50; Solin. 27; Amm.

Marc, xxviii. 6; 'Eiuo, Ptol. iv. 3. § 12), a town in

the district of the Syrtes, which, with Leptis

Magna, and Sabrata, formed the African Tripolis.

Although there had probably been an old Phoeni­

cian factory here, yet, from the silence of Scylax

and Strabo, the foundation of the Roman colony

(" Oeea colonia," Itin. Anton.) must be assigned to

the middle of the first century after Christ. It

flourished under the Romans until the fourth cen­

tury, when it was greatly injured by the Libyan

Ausuriani. (Amm. Marc. I. c.) At the Saracen

invasion it would seem that a new town sprung up

on the ruins of Oea, which assumed the Roman name

of the district — the modern Tripoli; Trablis, the

Moorish name of the town, is merely the same word

articulated through the medium of Arab pronuncia­

tion. At Tripoli there is a very perfect marble tri­

umphal arch dedicated to M. Aurelius Antoninus and

L. Aurelius Verus, which will be found beautifully

figured in Captain Lyons' Travels in JV. Africa, p.

18. Many other Roman remains have been found

here, especially glass urns, some of which have been

sent to England.

For some time it was thought that a coin of An­

toninus, with the "epigraph" col- Ave ock.,

was to be referred to this town. (Eckliel, vol. iV.

p. 131.) Its right to claim this is now contested.

(Duchalais, Restitution a Olbasa de Pisidie, a Jeru­

salem et aux Contrees Oce. de la Haute Asie de trois

ifonnaies Coloniales attributes a Ocea, Revue Nu-

mismatique, 1849, pp. 97—103; Beechcy, Exped.

to the Coast of Africa, pp. 24—32; Barth, Wander-

ungm, pp. 294, 295, 391.) [E. B. J.]

OEA (Ola, O'tn). 1. A town in Aegina. [Vol.

L p. 34, a.]

2. A town in Thera. [Tiieka].

OEANTHEIA or OEANTHE (OMrttto, Hel-

lanic. ap. Steph. B., Polyb., Paus.; Oiivfrn, Hecatae.

ap. Steph. B., Plin. iv. 3. 8. 4; Eoai-elj, Scylax, p.

14; EuayBia, Ptol. iii. 15. § 3: Eth. OiaKfleiir:

Galaxidhi), an important town of the Locri Ozolae,

situated at the western entrance of the Crissaean

gulf. Polybius says that it is opposite to Aegeiia

in Achaia (iv. 57, comp. v. 17), which agrees with

