614 PHOENICIA,

PHOENICIA.

of Ascalon, and the emigration <>f its inhabitants, as

already related, Tyre became dominant, and retained

the supremacy till the Persian conquest. Confede­

rations among the Phoenician cities for some common

object were frequent, ami are mentioned by Joshua

as early as the time of Moses (xi.). Subsequently,

the great council of the Phoenician! assembled on

the.se occasions at Tripolis (Diod.xvi. 41), where, as

we have already said, the three leading towns,

Sidon, Tyre, mid Aradus, had each its separate

quarter; from which circumstance, the town derived

its name. Aradus, however, does not appear to

have obtained this privilege till a late period of

Phoenician history, as in the time of Ezekiel it was

subordinate to Tyre (xxvii. S. sqq.); and Byblus,

though it had its own king, and i» sometimes men­

tioned as furnishing mariners, seems never to have

had a voice in the confederate councils. The popu­

lation of Phoenicia consisted in great part of slaves.

Its military force, as might be supposed from the

nature of the country, was chietly naval; and in

order to defend themselves from the attacks of the

Assyrians and Persians, the Phoenicians were com­

pelled to employ mercenary troops, who were perhaps

mostly Africans. (Died. L c.; EzekUl, xxvii.)

VI. Religion.

The nature of the Phoenician religion can only be

gathered from incidental allusions in the Greek and

Roman writers, anil in the Scriptures. A few coins

and idols have been found in Cyprus, but connected

only with the local Phoenician religion in that

island. 'Die most systematic account will lw found

in the Profpumt'to E9tmgetiea of E use bins, where

then are extracts from Nanemiiatho, professed to

have been tramdated into Greek by Phiio of ByMus.

It would be too long to enter here into his fanciful

cosmogony, which was of an atheistic nature, and

was character Lied chielly by a personification of the

elements. From the wind K»>l-pta, and litutu. his

wife, were produced Aeon and Protogonus, the first

mortals. These had three suns, Light, Fire, and

Flame, who produced a race ofgiants from whom the

mountains were named, — as Capitis, Libanus, Anti-

Jibatius and Brat by,— and who with their descend­

ants discovered the various arts of life. In later

times a human origin was assigned to the giids, that

i*, they were regarded as deified men; and this new

theology was absurdly grafted on the old cosmogony.

Elinn and his wife Beruth are their progenitors,

who dwelt near By blue. From EHun descends

Ouranos (Heaven), who weds his sister lie (Earth),

and has by her four sons, I his (or Cronos), IWtutus,

Dagon. and Atlas; and three daughters, Astarte,

Hiiea. and Dione, Croni-s, grown to man's estate,

deposes his father, and puts to death his own son

Sadid, and one of his daughters. Ouranos, returning

from banishment, is treachero-isly put to death by

Cmuos, who afterwards travels about the world,

establishing Athena in Attica and making Taut

king of Egypt. (Kenrick, PhotM, p. 295.)

Baal and Ashtaroth, the two chief divinities of

Phoenicia, were the sun and moon. The name of

llaal was applied to Phoenician kings, and Belus is

the first king of Assyria and Phoenicia. At a later

period Baal became a distinct supreme God, and the

sun obtained a separate worrdiip(2 Kings* xxiii. 5).

As the. supreme god, the Greeks and Komaus iden­

tified him with their Zeus, or Jupiter, and not with

Apollo. Bel or Baal was also identified with the planet

Saturn. We find his name prefixed to that of other

deities, as BsaJ-Pbegor, the god of ucerissBBB,

Uaal-Zebub, the god of flies, Ate; as well tetatbU

of many placed in which he had tempie*, *BuJ>

Gad, Baal-Hamon, &c. Groves on elevated jum

were dedicated to his worship, and human tkuss

were sometimes offered to him aa well as to Masts.

(Jtrem. xix. 4, 5.) He was worshipped with Cys­

tica! rites, his votaries crying aloud, and cvRaf

themselves with knives and lancets. A&btsrotk*

Astarte, the principal female divinity, was ktouasl

by the Greeks and Komaus sometimes with Jaa\

sometimes with Venus, though properly and av

ginally she represented the moon. Tbe phBdjsl

seat of her worship was Sidon. She w« >ymbalasi

by a heifer, or a figure with a heifers bead, as)

horns resembling the cresceot moon. Tbe tana at

Astarte was Phoenician (Pa. Locian, de I'm j»

c. 4); but she does not appear wiLh that a[>jeflsSi

iu the early Greek writers, who regard Apfcmsst

or Venus Urania, as the principal Pbwnicaa pi

dess. Herodotus (i. 105, 131, iii. 8) says that at

worship was transferred from Ascalon, in i

seat, to Cyprus and Cythera,and identifies heri

the Babylonian Mylitta, the character of whose i

ship wss unequivocal. Her orginal image cr^

bol, like that of many of the oldest deities, i

conical stone, as in the case of the Paphnn Vs

(Tac. II. ii. 3.; Max. Tyr. Diss. 38), of the f"

of Pessinus (Liv. xxix. 11), and others. InCyj

her worship degenerated into licentiousness, satf

Cyprian coins bear the primitive image of thee

stone. In Carthage, on the contrary, she i

as a virgin, with martial attributes, and wmt si

shipped with severe rites. She must be distiacaisa

from Atargatia, or IX-rceto, who hj*d also a msJ

at Ascalon, and was represented as half wavl

half fish. It is characteristic of the relqpoa en

Phoenicians, that though they adored fas* ■

they were not so much idolaters as lite h^pusl

Greeks, nnd Rmnans, since their temple* had I

no representation of the deity, or uoly a rcieSj

bol. The worship of Astarte seems to haw

first corrupted at Babylon. Adonis, who I

wounded by the boar on Lebanon, was

at Aphaca, about 7 miles E. of Bybloa, i

source of the stream which bear* his

which was said to be annually reddened

blood. (Zosim. i. 58; IV Lucian, tit iMa &

By the Phoenicians Adonis was also regan

sun, and his death typified the winter. His I

Aphaca, when abolished by Cun»Latitio«, i

luted with every sjecies of abowiuatiun.

V. Const, iii. 55.)

Cronos, or Saturn, is said by tbe Gh

Latin writers to have been one of lh«

I'll enician deities, but tl in not easy to dltjI

Human victims formed the mot* striking lei

his worship; but he was an epicure del

please, and the most acceptable uffei us£ <

child. (Porphyr. de Abt. \L 56;

Const, i. 4.) His image was of bix

14), and, according to the description «f ]

resembled that of Moloch or Milcwn,

the Ammonites; but human sacrifice*

to several Phoenician deities.

The gods hitherto described'

the Phoenicians; slelkarth*, who

* It is singular that the name of „  
backwards is, with the exception of Lbe

last letters, ideuticsl with Heracles.

