LUSITANIA. 219 LUSITANIA.

The errantry, being irrigated by these rivers, and

penetrated by their navigable streams, as well as

enriched by the gold and silver found in their beds

and in mines, was rich and fertile, Strabo tells us; but

its prosperity was greatly checked by the predatory

habits of its people, who neglected the culture of the

•oil, to give themselves up to war and robbery. This

evil tendency, however, he ascribes chiefly to the

mountain«rs, by whose attacks the inhabitants of

the lowlands were involved in the same disorder,

(Strab. iii. p. 154.)

4. Population. — The province, as finally con­

stituted, contained the countries of five chief peoples,

ani of innumerable petty tribes, most of whom,

however, may be included among these five. Thus,

for example, the 30 (some read 50) tribes (foVn),

mentioned by Strabo, between the Tagus and the

Artabria, are doubtless but subdivisions of the Cal-

laici and Lusitani. The five chief peoples of Lusi-

tauia (the Roman province) were:—{1.) The Lust-

taxi, on the W. coast between the Durius and tho

Tagu->, and extending also (as explained above) S. of

the latter river. (2.) £. of them the Vettones,

between the Darius and the Anas. (3.) S. of these

two were the Tukdui.i Vktkres, a branch of the

ancient population of Baetica, who (according to the

common opinion of the ancients) had crossed the

Anas; but whose presence should perhaps rather be

referred to an ancient occupation of the country up

to the Tagus. (4.) S. of them again, in the dis­

trict between the lower course of the Anas and the

S. and W. coasts, were a branch of the Turdetani,

to whom similar remarks apply. (5.) Lastly, in

various petitions, we find remnants of the old Celtic

pip ilation. preserving the name of Celtici. The

chief traces of them are on the SE. of the lower

Tagus, between it and the great bend of the Anas,

where they were mingled with the Turdulij and

among the Turdetani, in the extreme S., where they

sees) to have taken up their position in the moun­

tainous district between the termination of the W.

coast and the Anas (Ahjarbe), which the ancients

csdled Cuneus, and where they bore the distinctive

name of Conil (Comp. Hispania, p. 1087. § vii.)

The particulars respecting these peoples, their chief

cities, and so forth, are given under the several

articles: in this place we have to deal only with the

Loartanians, properly so called.

5. The Lusitani (Aoo-itwoI, Strab.; Aouctjtoi'oI,

DiorL, Ptol.), are designated by Strabo as "the

greatest of the nations of Iberia, and the one most

fr?-raently and longest engaged in war with the

K i-naas," a distinction which, certainly, not even the

Celrjberisns could dispute with them. The history

of the wars referred to has been given in outline

under Hispania, and that of their last great contest

may be read in the histories of Home and under

VuuaTHtis (Did. of Birxj.'). The incidents of

that war seem to prove that though the Lusitani

formed a compact state, under one national govern-

7.:

Mfti. Plikf. ProLFMv, Apri**. M'iOBRW

Tagus. Trja.

„ J/'iiflcgo.

Du.'iu*. RurllH. Jlouru.

Aro Ce-

Ta«'!«. Ti,'IM, Tai;u..

MoaJs. Munu*. M >ndM.

V«u. .. Vimxi. Vi»riu.

Darraa. Duriuj. Uuriui.

Arua.

tllUUllJ.

Jit.

«rBoi«i. NubLi.

•. c obliti-

Nebu. Nacbii. Caytvlo.

5«hU. 1

•fHialai. I

Minius. Ijmia, or Limits. Umtcii, Lima.

l.ima«u. <" 1,'tiu-.

rimi* Miiiiuj. Mialui. Mjuiua. Hinho.

ment, its force was impaired by a certain defect of

real union among the numerous minor peoples of

whom Strabo speaks. (Niebuhr, Lectures on Anc.

Ethmig. and Geog. vol. ii. p. 297.) The full

account of their manners and customs, given by

Strabo (iii. pp. 154—156), may be more conveniently

studied in the original than repeated here iu its many

details.

6. Lusitania as a Roman Province. — (Lusi­

tania Provincia, Inscr. ap. Gruter, p. 31, No.

383.) The position of Lusitania, after its conquest

by the Romans, first as a part of Hispinia Ulterior,

and already under Julius Caesar, tending to a sepa­

rate constitution; its formation into a distinct pro­

vince, under Augustus ; its civil and military govern­

ments: its three conventus of Emerita Augusta,

Pax Julia, and Scalauis, with the number and

rank of the towns included iu them; and its position

under the later empire, are all given under Hispania

(pp. 1081, 1082.)

7. Cities and Towns —(Those of the Vettones

are given under the article.) — The city of Lisbon

(Port.Lisboa') was, under the same name [Olisipo],

the ancient capital of the Lusitanians, and though

the Romans degraded it from that rank, in favour of

their own military colonies, it remained a place of

great commercial importance. Its political rank

was transferred, under the Romans, to Scalauis

(Santarem), a colony, and seat of a conventus juri-

dicus, higher up the river, on its right bank. But

the true Roman capital was Emerita Augusta

(Merida) in the SE. of the province, on the right

bank of the Anas, a colony founded by Augustus.

The chief roads leading through the province from

Emerita, with the places on them, were as follows:

1. From Emerita, E. and then NE. to Caesar-

Auousta "per Lusitaniam," as the Itinerary ex­

pressly says, although it lies entirely S. of the Anas

(/tin. Ant. pp. 444,445); thus suggesting a doubt

whether the boundary of Lusitania was not carried

as far S. as the M. Marianrs (Sierra Moreno): the

places on the road, which are commonly assigned to

Baelica, are: Contoboua, 12 M. P. (Alawjet)

MiROitKiGA, 36 M. P. (CapiUa); Sisalone, or

SisAi-o, 13 M. P. (Ahnatlen); Carcuvium, 20

M. P. (Caracwl?) ■ At> Turres, 26 M. P. (Ca-

latravaf), where, if not sooner, the roads enter the

Oretani. 2. From Emerita, due N. to Sal-

mantice (Salamanca) and Asturica, through the

territory of the Vkttonks. (Itin. Ant. p. 433:

for the places see Vettones). 2. From Emerita,

NW. to the Tagus, and down the right side of the

river to Olisipo (Itin. Ant. pp. 419, 420*): Pla-

oiakia, 30 M. P. (Rajwsera, Cone's; El-Com-

mandante, Lapie); Ad vii Aras, 20 M. P. (Co-

desera, Cortes, Arrouchcs, Mentelle and Lapie);

Montobhiga, 14 M. P. (vulg. Muiidobriga, Alar-

voa, Resend. Antiq. Lus. p. 58, F'lorez, Eip. S.

vol. xiii. p. 66, Cone's, Ukert; Parlaltgre, Lapie;

it seeins to be the Medobriga of the Bell. A lex. 48,

and the town of the Medubricenses Plumbarii of

Plin. iv. 21. s. 35); Fraxikus, 30 M. P., on or

near the left bank of the Tagus (Amieira, Cor.e's;

Villa Velka, Lapie); TuBUCCI, 32 M. P. (Al/ran-

tes or Punltetet); Scalabih, 32 M. P., a colony

and conventus, with the surname Praesiihum Ju-

* The numbers on all the roads from Emerita to  
Olisipo are very corrupt: they do not agree with

the totals given at the head of each route; und

many of them are evidently too short.

