ITALIA.

73 ITALIA.

1 Namk.

Th» txct of Italy was very far from being ori-

r*aih" applied in the same exten.sirc signification

wfcich k afterwards obtained. It was confined, in

lis ant inatanee, to the extreme southern point

u th» jtauaii peninsula, not including even the

vt« of the modem Calabria, but only the southern

pssiiUr partion of that country, bounded on the

>.S» the Borrow itihinns which separates the Teri-

uil aaii ScyKrtian gulfs. Such was the distinct

£tiraKEt Antiochua of Syracuse (ap. Strab, vi.

{. 352); nor hare we any reason to reject his testi-

* a;«;3 t>iii point, though it is certain that this  
sap unit ban ceased long before the time of that

•aloraa, atJ is not found in any extant ancient

fjxr At a autk<eqaent period, but still in very

it:; tu^s, the appellation was extended to the

•hJt tract along the shores of the Tarentine gulf,

ti iV 13 .Veu^iatum, and from thence across to the

r^i f ^"ujouia on the western sea; though, ac-

-fia^ tu «*iier statements the river Laiis was its  
aasaca unit on this aide. (Strab. v. p. 209, vi.

} ;Aniwcbos, ap. Dkmys. i. 73.) This appears

- attr b*a the established usage among the Greeks  
a u* fifth century B. c. Antiochus expressly ex-

tut lapygian peninsula from Italy, and Thn-

ruaW dearly adopts the same distinction (vii. 33).

\* &«3thes on the shores of the Tyrrhenian sea,

4 the IVaidocian gulf, were then known only

s» tht tna of Opica and Tyrrhenia; tlm- Thu-

c/js* caiia Comae a city in Opicia, and Aristotle

H"» i Latitrai as a district of Opica. Even Theo-

;-rv*aa proems the distinction, and speaks of

pc^trets cif Italy, where those of the lirut-

Ua aoiataiai only can be meant, as opposed to

af Latiajn (Thuc vi 4; Arist. ap. Dionys.

* rj; Tkrophr. B. P. T. 8.)

'-* S4.'n*r of Italia, aa thus applied, seems to have

'-s rtxurnuua with that of Oenotria; for Antic-

--.s. ir, the same passage where he assigned the  
^r ^ni u.tJu to the former appellation, confined

^at af Oosetria within the same boundaries, and

■*** af the Oenotri and Itati as the same people

£»-e». vi. p. 254: ap. Dionys. I 12). This is

- aa>rt accordance with the statements which re-  
**ae the Oenotrians ms assuming the name of

(Itajij from a chief uf the name of 1 talus

'•bin. i. 12, 35; Virg. Aen. i. 533; Arist. Pol

■a 1UX a* well aa with the mythical genealogy ac-

Tiaf tt which I talus and Oenotrus were brothers.

1 Jrn. saf Jea. it). Thucydides, who represents

■ *£a a cuaam; from Arcadia (vi. 2), probably

lis iatt tradition, for the Oenotrians were

~mlr represented as of Arcadian origin. YYne-

tat two names were originally applied to the

lawk, or (as is perhaps more probable) the

~i »er- »3>1t a particular tribe of the Oenotrians,

t-jmt tmm gradually prevailed till it was extended

1* Thok psupie, we have no means of determin-

-XL Bat ia thjs case, as in most others, it is clear  
tat tacat of the people was antecedent to that

* 'hi casay, and that I talis, in its original sipni-  
tafca. coat rarely the land of the ltali; though

* i uta ptriod. by its gradual extension, it hod

lost this national meaning. It is im-

fir aj to trace with accuracy the suc-

*t*ja of this extension, nor do wc know at  
'- -a* tae Romans first adopted the name of

that of the whole peninsula. It would be

m» ticreetiog to know whether they received

this nsage from the Greeks, or found it already pre­

valent among the nations of Italy; but it is difficult

to believe that tribes of different races, origin, and

language, as the Etruscans, Unibrians, Sabcllians,

and Oenotrians, would have concurred in calling the

country they inhabited by one general appellation.

If the Greek account already given, according to

which the name was first given to the Oenotrian

part of the peninsula, is worthy of confidence, it must

have been a word of Pclasgic origin, and subsequently

adopted by the Sabellian and Oscan races, as well

as by the Romans themselves.

The etymology of the name is wholly uncertain.

The current tradition among the Greeks and Komans,

as already noticed, derived it from an Oenotrian or

Pelasgic cliief, Italus; but this is evidently a mere

fiction, like that of so many other eponymous heroes.

A more learned, but scarcely more trustworthy, ety­

mology derived the name from Italos or Itulos,

which, in Tyrrhenian or old Greek, is said to have

sipiified an ox; so that Italia would have meant

"the land of cattle.'' (Timaeus, ap. Cell. xi. 1;

Varr. It. R. ii. 1. § 9.) The ancient form here

cited is evidently connected with the Latin "vi-

tulus ;" and it is probable that the name of the

people was originally Vitulos, or Vitalos, in its Pe­

lasgic form; we find the same form retained by the

Sabellian nations as late as the first century B. c,

when the Samnite denarii (struck during the Social

War. b. c. 90—88) have the inscription "Vitelu"

for Italia.

It is probable that the rapid extension of tho

Roman power, and the successive subjugation of the

different nations of Central and Southern Italy by

its victorious arms, tended also to promote the ex­

tension of the one common namo to the whole; and

there seems little doubt that as early as the time of

Pyrrhus, this was already applied in nearly the same

scn>e as afterwards continued to be the usage,—as

comprising the whole Italian peninsula to the fron­

tiers of Cisalpine Gaul, but excluding the latter

country, as well as Liguria. This continued to bo

the customary and official meaning of the name of

Italy from this time till the close of the Republic;

and hence, even after the First Triumvirate, Gallia

Cisalpina, as well as Transalpina, was allotted to

Caesar as his province, a term which was never ap­

plied but to countries out of Italy; but long before

the close of this period, the name of Italy would

seem to have been often employed in its more exten­

sive, and what may be termed its geographical,

meaning, as including the whole land from the foot

of the Alps to the Sicilian straits. Polybius cer­

tainly uses the term in this sense, for he speaks of

the Romans as having subdued all Italy, except the

land of the Gauls (Gallia Cisalpina), and repeatedly

describes Hannibal as crossing the Alps into Italy,

and designates the plains on the banks of the Padus

as in Italy. (Pol. i. 6, ii. 14, iii. 39, 54.) The

natural limits of Italy are indeed so clearly marked

and so obvious, that as soon as the name came to bo

once received as the designation of the country in

genera], it was almost inevitable that it should ac­

quire this extension; hence, though the official dis­

tinction between Italy and Cisalpine Gaul was re­

tained by the Romans to the very end of the Republic,

it is clear that the more extended use of the name

was already familiar in common usage. Thus, al­

ready in b. c. 76, Pompeius employs the expression

"in ccrvicibus Italiae," of the passes of the Alps into

Cisalpine Gaul (Sail, llitl. iii. 11): and Decimus. liiu-

