TIIEBAE AEGYPTI. 1139 THEBAE AEGYPTI.

Old Monarchy, to bare exercised the functions of

royalty. The reign of Thothmes III. is one of the

mwt splendid in the annals of the 18th dynasty.

Dm free tiers of Aegypt extended S. a little

l«rond the second cataract, and E. nearly to

Muant Sinai. Thothmes 11L completed in Thebes

ittelf many of the structures begun by his predeces-

•n. «. g. the palace of the kings, — and generally

iru-bed the cities of the Thebaid with sumptuous

viUings. He commenced the temple at Amada,

ibich was completed by Amunoph II. and Thoth-

ars JV; and his name was inscribed on the motlu-

«ti of Oinbi, Apollinnpolia Magna, and Eilithya.

I Ule*, however, was the centre of his architectural

i'*m, and even the ruins of his great works there

i>e served to adorn other capital cities. In the

lippodrome of Constantinople is a mutilated obelisk

I the reign of Thothmes III., which was brought

■«i Aepypt by one of the Byzantine emperors, and

inch originally adorned the central court of Karnak.

t;»in the obelUk which Pope Silt us V. set up in

it of the church of St. John Lateran at Rome, the

<i«*t and must perfect structure of its kind, was

r»t raised in this reign, and bears its founder's

Us on the central column of its hieroglyphics.

records uf this reign are inscribed on two

•leratiug monuments, — a painting in a tomb at

'•mtth (Haskins, TrateU in Aethiopia, p. 437,

IL; Wilkinson, Mod. Egypt ami Thebti, vol. ii. p.

M I, sod the great Tablet of Karnak, which is

nelly an historical and statistical document, and

tach, there can be little doubt, is the very Tablet

bu ll the priosta of Thebes exhibited and expounded

I'aesar Uermanicus in A. D. 16 (Tac. Ann. ii.

15. From the paintings and the hieroglyphics, so

■ u the Utter have been read, on these monuments,

that in this reign tribute was paid into

treasury by nations dwelling on the

ran of the Caspian sea, on the banks uf the

rn«. in the kingdom of Meroe or Aethiopia, and

tbe more savage tribes who wandered over the

I'.ern flank of the great Sahara. Thirteen expedi-

>■*. indeed, of Thothmes III., are distinctly re-

rtTni, and the 35th year of his reign, according

Leptiua, is recorded. At this period the kingdom

f'wbea most have been the most powerful and

iien* in the world. Of the son of Tbothinea,

anophia 1L, little is known; but he also added to

at Thebes, and reared other monuments

Inscriptions found at Surabitel-Kaalim,

tU? peninsula of Sinai, record his name, and at

nus (Ibi im) he appears in a specs, or excavated

?*L seated with two principal officers, and receiv-

the account of a great chase of wild beasts.

Next in importance, though not in succession,

~e Tbrban kings of the 18th dynasty, is Aniun-

s or Anieoopbis III. His name is found at

ki^m, umr the third Cataract, and he perma-

tfy extended the frontiers of the Theban king,

i to Soleb, a degree further to S. than it had

WW reached. These extensions are not only geo-

i^ically, but commercially, important, inasmuch

-«? farther southward the boundaries extended, the  
rvr did Use Aegyptians approach to the regions

. K produced gold, ivory, gems, and aromatics,

lite more considerable, therefore, was the trade

I beta itself. Only on the supposition that it

for many generations one of the greatest em-

■ina m the world can we understand the lavish

uf its monarchs, and its fame among

as the greatest and richest of cities.

And this consideration is the more important to­

wards a correct estimate of the resources of the

Theban kingdom, since its proper territory barely

sufficed for the support of its dense population, and

there is no evidence of its having any remarkable

traffic by sea. It is prohnblo, indeed, that the do­

minions of Amcnopbis III. stretched to within five

days' journey of Axume on the Red Sea; for u

scarabaeus inscribed with his name and that of liis

wife Taia mentions the land of Karoei or Kaloei,

supposed to be Coloe (Roselliui, Man. St or. iii. 1,

261; Birch, Gall lirit. Mm. p. 83), as their south­

ern limit. Thebes was enriched by this monarch

with two vast palaces, one on the eastern, the other

on the western bank of the Nile. He also com­

menced and erected the greater portion of the build­

ings at Luxor. On the walls of their chambers

Amenophis was designated " The vanquisher of the

Mennahoun," an unknown people, and the " Pacifica­

tor of Aegypt." From the fragment of a mnnolithal

granite statue now in the louvre, it may be inferred

that bis victories were obtained over negro races, and

consequently were the results of campaigns in the in­

terior of Libya and the S. of Aethiopia. Amenophis

has a further claim to notice, since he was probably

the Memnon, son of Aurora, whom Achilles slew at

the siege of Troy. Of all the Aethiopian works the

Memnonian statues, from their real mngnitudc and

from the fabulous stories related of them, have at­

tracted the largest share of attention. By the word

Memnon the Greeks understood an Aethiopian or

man of dark complexion (Steph. B. $. v.; Agathem.

ap. Gr. Geograpk. A/in.), or rather, perhaps, a dark-

complexioned warrior (comp. Eustath. ad H. v.

639); and the term may very properly liave been

applied to the conqueror of the southern land, who

was also hereditary prince of Aethiojiia. The statues

of Memnon, which now stand alone on the plain of

I Thebes, originally may have been the figures at the

| entrance of the long drotnos of crio-sphinxes which

led up to the Amenopheion or palace of Amen­

ophis. Of the eastern and northern limits of the

Theban kingdom under the third Amenophis, we

have no evidence similar to that afforded by the

tablet of Karnak; yet from the monuments of his

j battles we may infer that he levied tribute from

| the Arabians on the lied Sea and in the peninsula

of Sinai, and at one time pushed his conquests

as far an Mesopotamia. According to Manctho he

reigned 31 years: his tomb is the most ancient of

the sepulchres in the hab-el-Mebok; and even so

late as the Ptolemaic age he had divine honours

paid him by a special priest-college called "The

pastophori of Amenophis in the Memnoneia." (Ken-

rick, Ancient Aegypt, vol. ii. p. 246.)

Setei Meuephthah is the next monarch of the 18th

dynasty who, in connection with Thebes, deserves

mention. Besides the temples which he constructed

at Amada in Nubia and at Sitsilis (SuWfcA), he

began the great palace called Menephtheion in that

city, although he left it to be completed by his suc­

cessors ltameses II. and HI. From the paintings

and inscriptions on the ruins at Karnak and /.u»ir

it appears that this monarch triumphed over five

Asiatic nations as well as over races whose position

cannot he ascertained, but whose features and dress

point to the interior of Libya. The tomb and sar­

cophagus of Setei Mrnephthah were discovered by

Belzoni in the Bab-eUMtlovk. (Travel*, vol. i. p.

167.) If he be the same with the S^thos of tlie

lists, he reigned 50 or 51 years. We now co;ne tt

4 n »

