LEPREUM.

101 LEPTIS.

whole we mar safely place them in the group of the

Alps, of which the Mont St. Gothard is the centre,

and from which the Rhone and the Rhine, as well

as the Reus* and the Ticino. take their rise. The

name of Vol Isvantina, still given to the upper

valley of the Ticino, near the foot of the St. Gothard,

is Terr probably derived from the name of the Le-

pontii. Their chief town, according to Ptolemy,

was Oscela or Oscella, which is generally supposed

to be Dome d Otsola; but, as the LepontH are

erroneously placed by him in the Cottian Alps, it is

perhaps more probable that the town meant by him

is the Ocelum of Caesar (now Uxeau), which was

really situated in that district. [Ocklum.]

The name of Alfes Letontiae, or Lepontian

Aip$, is generally given by modern geographers to

the part of this chain extending from Monte Rosa

V> the St. Gothard; but there is no ancient autho­

rity fur this use of the term. [E. H. B.]

LETREUM (to AcxpeoK, Scyl., Strab., Polyb.;

Acrpfot, Paus., Aristoph. At. 149; AeVptoK, Ptol.

iii. 16. § 18: Eth. A«wp«diTT/s), the chief town of

Triphylia in Elis, was situated in the southern part

of the district, at the distance of 100 stadia from

Samicnm, and 40 stadia from the sea. (Strab. vili.

p. 344.) Scylax and Ptolemy, less correctly, describe

it as lying upon the coast Triphylia is said to have

beta originally inhabited by the Cauconians, whence

L'preum is called by Callimachns (Bymn. in Jov.

39) Kawcwvuv trroKitdpoy. The Caucones were

an>rwards expelled by the Minyae, who took posses-

aoo of Lepreum. (Herod, iv. 148.) Subsequently,

and probably soon after the Messenian wars, Le-

pram and the other cities of Triphylia were sub­

dual by the Eleians* who governed them as subject

piares. [See Vol. I. p. 818, b.] The Triphylian

cities, however, always bore this yoke with impa­

tience; and Lepreum took the lead in their frequent

ittempts to shake off the Eleian supremacy. The

greater importance of Lepreum is shown by the fact

that it was the only one of the Triphylian towns

*bich took part in the Persian wars. (Herod, ix.  
2r*.) In b. c. 421 Lepreum, supported by Sparta,

revolted from ElU (Thuc. v. 31); and at last, in

400, the Eleians, by their treaty with Sparta, were

obliged to relinquish their authority over Lepreum

and the other Triphyliau towns. (Xen. Hell. iii. 2.

§25.) When the Spartan power had been broken

by tbe battle of l^euctra (b. c. 371), the Spartans

endeavoured to recover their supremacy over Le-

pteiim and the other Triphylian towns; but the

to'.er protected themselves by becoming members of

the Arcadian confederacy, which had been recently

founded by Epaminondas. (Xen. Hell vi. 5. §2,

»*$-) Hence Lepreum is called an Arcadian town

by ScyUx and Pliny, the latter of whom erroneously

speaks both of a Leprion in Elis (iv. 5. s. 6), and of

i Ufffvon in Arcadia (iv. 5. a. 10). Pausanias also

sate* that the Lepreatae in his time claimed to be

Arcadians; but he observes that they had been sub­

ject* of the Eleians from ancient times,—that as

oacy of them as had been victors in the public

raraes were proclaimed as Eleians from Lepreus,—

a&ii tliai Aristophanes describes Lepreus as a city of

u> Eleuuia. (Paus. v. 5. § 3.) After the time of

Akiander the Eleians again reduced the Triphylian

cirjta, which therefore were obliged to join the Ae-

t'liao league along with the Eleians. But when

MaBp, in his war with the Aetolians, marched into

Triphjfia, the inhabitants of Lepreum rose against

the Ektaa garrison in their town, and declared in

Tom.

favour of Philip, who thus obtained possession of the

place. (Polyb. iv. 77, 79, 80.) In the time of Pau­

sanias the ouly monument in Lepreum was a temple

of Demeter, built of brick. In the vicinity of the

town was a fountain named Arene. (Paus. v. 5. § 6.)

The territory of Lepreum was rich and fertile. (Xwpa

tvSaiuwv, Strab. viii. p. 345.)

The ruins of Lepreum are situated upon a hill,

near the modern village of Strovitzi. These ruins

show that Lepreum was a town of some size. A

plan of them is given by the French Commission,

which is copied in the work of Curtius. They were

first described by Dodwell. It takes half an hour to

ascend from the first traces of the walls to the acro­

polis, which is entered by an ancient gateway. "The

towers are square; one of them is almost entire, and

contains a small window or arrow hole. A trans­

verse wall is carried completely across the acropolis,

by which means it was anciently divided into two

parts. The foundation of this wall, and part of the

elevation, still remain. Three different periods of

architecture are evident in this fortress. The walls

are composed of polygons: some of the towers con­

sist of .irregular, and others of rectangular quadri­

laterals. The ruins extend far below the acropolis,

on the side of the hill, and are seen on a flat de­

tached knoll." (Dodwell, Tour through Greece^

vol. ii. p. 347 ; Leake, Morea% vol. i. p. 56; Bob-

laye, Recherches, rt/c. p. 135; Curtius, Pelopon~

nesos, vol. ii. p. 84.)

LE'PSIA (Lipso), a small island of the Icarian

sea, in the north of Leros, and opposite to the coast of

Caria. It is not mentioned by any ancient author

except Pliny (//. A* v. 34). *" [L. S.]

LEPTE (Aevrurfe &itpa, Ptol. iv. 5; Plin. vi. 29

s. 34), the modern Rcu-el-Auf, in lat. 23° N., was

a headland of Upper Egypt, upon the confines of

Aethiopia, which projected into the Red Sea at Sinus

Immundus {Foul Bay). It formed the extremity

of a volcanic range of rocks abounding in mines of

gold, copper and topaz. [W. B. D.]

LEPTIS, a town of Hispania Baetica, mentioned

only in the Bell. Alex. 57, where the word is perhaps

only a false reading for Laepa, near the mouth of

the Anas. fP. S.]

LEPTIS* (Liv. xxxiv. 62; Caes. B.C. ii. 38;

Hirt. Bell. Afr. 6, 7, 9, 62 ; Mela, i. 7. § 2; Plin.

v. 4. s. 3), also called by later writers, LEPTIS

MINOR or PARVA (M*ris tj fdxpa, Ptol. iv. 3.

§10; Leptiminus or Lepte Minus, I tin. Ant. p. 58;

Tab. Pe«/.; Geogr. Rav. Hi. 5 v. 5 : Eth Leptitani:

Lemta, Ru.), a city on the coast of Byzacium, just

within the SE. headland of the Sinus Neapolitan us,

18 M.P. SE. of Hadrumetum, and 33 M.P. NE. of

Thysdrus, and one of the most flourishing of the

Phoenician colonics on that coast, notwithstanding

the epithet Parva, which is merely used by lalo

writers to distinguish it from the still more important

city of Leitis Magna. It was a colony of Tyre

(Sail. Jug. 19; Plin. /. c), and, under the Car­

thaginians, it was the most important place in the

wealthy district of Empoihae, and its wealth was

such that it paid to Carthage the daily tribute of

a Euboic talent. (Liv. /. c.) Under the Romans

it was a libera civitas, at least in Pliny's time:

whether it became a colony afterwards depends on

the question, whether the coins bearing the name of

Leitis belong to this city or to Lop t is Magna.

* Derived from a Phoenician word signifying  
a naval station.

