174 LIBARNA. LIBNIUS.

are found principally towards the north of the range

(liobinson, Bibl. Res. vol. iii. pp. 440, 441), parti­

cularly in the vicinity of a Maronite village named

Khtlen, doubtless identical with the "Eden" of

E/.ekicl (xxxi. 16), in the neighbourhood of which

the finest specimens of the cedars were even then

found. They had almost becomo extinct, — only

eii:iit ancient trees can now be numbered.—when, a

few years ago, the monks of a neighbouring convent

went to the pains of planting some five hundred

trees*, which are now carefully preserved, and will

perpetuate the tradition of the *' cedars of Lebanon"

to succeeding generations. The fact remarked by

St. Jerome, of the proper name of the mountain

being synonymous with frankincense, both in Greek

and Hebrew, has given rise to the idea that the

mountain produced this odoriferous shrub, of which,

however, there is no proof. (Reland, Palaetlina,

p. 313.) [G.W.]

LIBARNA (AfCapra), a city of Liguria, which

is mentioned by Pliny among the "nobilia oppitlu"

that adorned the interior of that province, as welt as

by Ptolemy and the Itineraries, in which its name

appears as " Libarnum " or " Libarium." (Plin. iii.

5. a. 7; Ptol. iii. 1. § 45; Jt'm. Ant. p. 294; Tab.

J'eul.) These place it on the road from Genua to

Dertoua, but the distances giveu are certainly cor­

rupt, and therefore afford no clue to the position of

the town. This has, however, been of late years

established beyond doubt by the discovery of its

remains on the left bank of the Scricia, between

A rtptata and Serraralle. The traces still visible of

its ancient theatre, forum, and aqueducts, confirm

Pliny's statement of its flourishing condition; which

is further attested by several inscriptions, from one of

which it would appear to have enjoyed colonial rank.

(S. (juintino, Antica Coloniu di Libarna, in the

Mrm, del? AcctuUm. di Torino^ vol. xxix. p. 143;

Al.lini, Isijwli Ticineti, pp. 120, 139.) [K. II. B.]

LIBETHRA, LIBETHRUM (Ai«r)0oa: Elk.

\i6r\Bpioi), a town of Macedonia in the neighbour­

hood of Ilium. It is mentioned by Livy (xliv. 5),

who, after describing the perilous march of the

Roman army under Q. Marcius through a pass in

the chain of Olympus,—Cai.upeuce (the lower

part of the ravine of Flatamma),—says, that after

four days of extreme labour, they reached the plain

between Libetbrum and Heracleia, Pausanias

(ix. 30. § 9) reports a tradition that the town was

once destroyed. "Libethra," he says, "was situated

on Mount Olympus, on the side of Macedonia. At no

great distance from it stood the tomb of Orpheus,

reelecting which an oracle had declared that when

the sun beheld the bones of the poet the city should

be destroyed by a boar (Biro ovoi). The inhabitants

of Libethra ridiculed the thing as imjxiasiblc; but

the column of Orpheus's monument liaviug been

accidentally broken, a gap was made by which light

bnike in upon the tomb, when the same night the

torrent named Si°h, being prodigiously swollen,rushed

down with violeiire from Mt. Olympus upon Li­

bethra, overthrowing the walls and all the public

and private buildings, and destroying every living

creature in its furious course. After this calamity

the remains of Orpheus were removed to L>ium,

20 stadia distant from their city towards Olym­

pus, where they erected a monument to him, con­

sisting of an urn of stone upon a column." In the

time of Alexander the Great there was a statue of

Orpheus mad* of cypress, at Libethra. (Pint.

Ala. 14.)

The only two torrents which could have rnVclei

such havoc as that described by Pausanias are tue

rivers of riutamtma and LitoUioro. As the f«swr

was near Heracleia, it may be coucluded that tie

Sus, was the same river as the Enipeus, and that

Libethra was situated not far from its junction wi;h

the sea. as the upper parts of the slope umanls

LihiUiorv, are secured from the ravages of the

torrent by their elevation above its bank.

It might be supposed, from the resemblance, that

the modern Malathria [Dium] is a corruption of

the ancient Libethra: the similarity is to be at­

tributed, perhaps, to the two names having a couiumq

origin in some word of the ancient language ■{

Macedonia. (Leake, Jfurliern G'recce, voL iii.

pp. 413, 422.)

Strabo (ix. p. 409, x. p. 471) alludes to this

place when speaking of Helicon, and remarks that

several places around that mountain, attested tiie

former existence of the Pierian Thrarians in the

Boeotian districts. Along with the worship of the

Muses the names of mountains, caves, and springs,

were transferred from ML Olympus to Helicon;

hence they were surnamed Libethridcs as well as

Pierides (" Xympliae, Hosier amor, Libethrides,"

Virg. £<Avii. 21). [E. B. J.]

LIBE'TUKIAS, LIBETHRIUS. [Helrox.]

Ll'BIA. [AllTRIGOXES.]

LIItiCll or LIBIC1 (A*6V*ioi, Pol.; Aituul,

Ptol.), a tribe of Cisalpine Gauls, who iiih:ibited lit

part of Gallia Transpadana about the river Sesia

and the neighbourhood of Yervellae. They aie

first mentioned by Polybius (ii. 17), who places

them, together with the Laevi (Adoi), towards tix

sources of the Padus, and W. of the Insubres. Tnsi

statement is sufficiently vague: a more previse due

to their position is supplied by Pliny and Ptulemy,

both of whom notice Vercellae as their chief city, to

which the latter adds Laumellum also. (Pun. iii.

17. s. 21; Ptol. iii. 1. §36.) Pliny expressly leti.

ns that they were descended from the Sallyea, a pr«^>

of Ligurian race; whence it would appear probable

that the Libicii as well as the Laevi were Lurunan,

and not Gaulish tribes [Laevi], though »* lieu >«

the N. side of the Padus. Livy also speaks, but in

a passage of which the reading is very um-ertaiu

(v. 35), of the Salluvii (the same people with the

Sallyea) as crossing the Alps, and witling in Gaul

near the La. vi. [K. H. B.J

LIBISO'SON'A (cognomine Foroaumutana, Pfiav

iii. 3. s. 4; Inscr. ap. Gruter, p. 260. no. 3; LiU-

sona, Coins, up. Sestini, p. 168; Libisosia, Itim.

Aid. p. 446; AisViKO., Ptol. ii. C. § 59; Lebi-

nosa, (Jcog. Kav. iv. 44: Uz>iza), a city of tko

Oretani, in Uispania Tarraconensis, 14 M. P. XL.

of the sources of the Anas, on the hi^h-road fruui

Laiuinium to Cacsaraugusta. It was au important

place of trade, and, under the Romans, a colony,

belonging to the couventus of Cacsaraugusta (Pus.

I c. i Ukert, vol. ii. pt. 1. pp. 411,412). [P. S.J

L1BNATH (A««V<f, AosVrf), generally roenfionsvi

in connection with I,achisb, from which it could Doc

be far distant [Lacuihii], (,/osA. x. 29—32; SA'injp.

xix. 8.) It belonged to Judah (Ji*h. xv. 42), ami

is recognised by Luscbius as a village iu the d*>-

trict of Elcutheropolis. (Onuauuit. s. r. AoCaML)

Dr. Robinson could not succeed in recovering any

irarcs of its name or site (bill. tin. tul ii. p.

389). [0. »".]

LI'BNIUS, a river in Ireland, mentioned by Ito-

Lwny (ii. 2. jj 4) aa in the west coast, — Um hrsr

