PETRA. PETRA. 583

1 (Itirft: Eli. Ilrrpam, Petrinns: Petralia),

> ay i Situ mentioned both by Pliny and

Man mail; U» inland towns of the island.

i'm ib> man the Petrini among the commu-

i that nfttred from the exactions of Verm

(&, lirr. iil 391 Plin. iii. 8. a. U; Ptol. iii. 4.

114); mi their Dane is mentioned at an earlier

;ma tn Itaionu as submitting to the Romans

erx lis rint Ptuik War. (Diod. xxiii. 18; Exc.

S n 505.) The name is written Petraea by Silius

hucn (or. 148), and the Petrinae of the Antonine

I'ltirr ■ mall probability the same place, (/tin.

Jata91) Though so often mentioned by ancient

ttkm, tart afford Terr little doe to its position;

an t it probable that the name is retained bj the

sain I'Hmlia. a small town about 8 miles W. of

wppowi to rrpreaent the ancient Engyum.

[btrra.] Ptolemy indeed places these two towns

tar tat untber, though he erroneously transfers

Cim butt to the neighbourhood of Syracuse, which

* »Mr at variance with the mention of Petra in  
usine among the towns subject to the Cartha-

(tsts a iu u B.C. 254. (Clurer. Sicil p.

K.) [E. H. B.]

3 A t-txmi of Macedonia, among the mount-

Cj Vrotd Libethra. the possession of which

* looted by the Tbessalian Perrhaebi and the  
anemia kingj, (l,iT. xxxix. 26, xliv. 39.) It

saxmkd a put which led to Pytbinm in Thea-

h ir Ua back of Olympus. By this road L.

""•in ranDui was enabled to throw a detach-

n « the rear of the Macedonian army which

v rmrpej on the Eoipeus, after the forces of

atd been overthrown at the pass of Petra

[I Aia» Xatica. who had been sent against it

a im coram Ii eldest son Q. Fabius Maxim us.

■ 41.) Petra waa situated on a great insu-

W vk naturally separated from the adjoining

Satan at the pass which leads from Klatuna or

est irta the maritime plains of llacedonia. Here,

•a ■ at sort I he least difficult and most direct

*• rottst aenas toe Olympene barrier, or the  
taw bftweee Macedonia and Tbessaly, exactly

*» IjfU. art the mint of Petra. (Leake, Korth-  
toI. Si. pp. 337,430.) [E. B. J.]

* A tama of the Maedi, in Thrace. (Llv. xl.

k A !»«• in niyricum, situated upon a hill upon

•kick bad only a moderately good harbour.

■»*CB.4J.)

I A plat* it the Corintbiav [Vol I. p. 68S, a.]

'A plate in the immediate neighbourhood of

k[VtlLa.88l,a.]

[*TU. IL U Atia. 1. (ntVpo, Ptol. v. 17.

^ '* 10. J 19; rierpa or n«Tpai. Said. t. t>.

tkt Sua of the Old Testament, 2

7; li'il, xtl 1: respecting ita various

*" Robiaano, Biblical Aeaeorcou, vol. ii.

«• «aJ 10. p. 653), the chief town of Arabia

■** an the ca|«tal of the Idumaeans and

tawittv af the Nahaiaei, now Wady Muia.

ham.)

<** »u rilaated in the eastern part of

■ IMrata. it the district called under the

- of Borne Palaestina Tenia ( Vet.  
p. 711. Weasel.; Malala, Ckronogr. xvi.

«i DLfta). According to the division of

■""it rngripbers, it lay in the northern dis-

*-f^»lrw; whilst the modern ones place it in

portion, fjk-Sherah, the Seir, or moun-

•( tie Old Testament (G«ne»i». xxxvi. 8).

It was seated between the Dead Sea and the Elanitic

gulf; being, according to Diodorns Skulus (xix. 98),

300 stadia S. of the former, whilst the Tab. Peut.

places it 98 Roman miles N. of the latter. Its site

is a wilderness overtopped by Mount Ilor, and diver­

sified by cliffs, ravines, plains, and Wadys. or watered

valleys, for the most part but ill cultivated. Strabo

(xvi. p. 779) describes it as seated in a plain sur­

rounded with rocks, hemmed in with barren and

strrumless deserts, though the plain itself is well

watered. Pliny's description (vi. 32), which states,

the extent of the plain at rather less than 2 miles,

agrees very nearly with that of Strabo, and both are

confirmed by the reports of modern travellers. "It

is an area in the bosom of a mountain, swelling into

mounds, and intersected with gullies." (lrby and

Mangles, ch. viii.) It must not, however, be under­

stood to be completely hemmed in with rocks. To­

wards the N. and S. the view is open ; and from the

eastern part of the valley the summit of Mount Hor

is seen over the western cliffs. (Robinson, ii. p. 528.)

According to Pliny (i. c.) Petra was a place of great

resort for travellers.

Petra was subdued by A. Cornelius Palma, a

lieutenant of Trajan's (Dion Cass. Ixviii. 14), and

remained under the Roman dominion a consider­

able time, as we hear of the province of Arabia being

enlarged by Septiniius Severus A. t>. 195 (id. lxxv.

1,2; Eutrop. viii. 18). It must have been during

this period that those temples and mausoleums were

made, the remains of which still arrest the attention

of the traveller; for though the predominant style of

the architecture is Egyptian, it is mixed with florid

and over-loaded Roman-Greek specimens, which

clearly indicate their origin. (Robinson, ii. p. 532.)

The valley of Wady Mvsa, which leads to the

town, is about 150 feet broad at its entrance, and is

encircled with cliffs of red sandstone, which gradually

increase from a height of 40 or 50 feet to 200 or 250

feet Their height has been greatly exaggerated,

having been estimated by some travellers at 700

and even 1000 feet (lrby and Mangles, ch. viii.;

Stephens, ii. p. 70; see Robinson, ii. p. 517 and note).

The valley gradually contracts, till at one spot it be­

comes only about 12 feet broad, and is so overlapped

by the cliffs that the light of day is almost excluded.

The ravine or Sik of Wady Mum extends, with many

windings, for a good English mile. It forms the

principal, and was anciently the only avenue to Petra,

the entrance being broken through the wall. (Diod.

Sic. ii. 48, xix. 97; Robinson, ii. p. 516; Lahorde,

p. 55.) This valley contains a wonderful necropolis

hewn in the rocks. The tombs, which adjoin or

surmount one another, exhibit now a front with six

Ionic •columns, now with four slender pyramids, and

by their mixture of Greek, Roman, and Oriental

architecture remind the spectator of the remains

which are found in the valley of Jehoahaphat and in

other parts of Palestine. The further tide of the

ravine is spanned by a bold arch, perhaps a trium­

phal one, with finely-sculptured niches evidently in­

tended for 3tatues. This, like the other remains of

this extraordinary spot, is ascribed by the natives

either to the Pharaohs or to the Jins or evil genii.

Along the bottom of the valley, in which it almost

vanishes, winds the stream mentioned by Strabo arid

Pliny, the small but charming Wady Muta. In

ancient times its bed seems to have been paved, as

many traces still show. Its stream was spanned by

frequent bridges, its sides strengthened with stone

walls or quays, and numerous small canals derived

r r 4

