89t» ROMA. ROMA.

tend to confirm them. Appian (B. C. iii. 41)

mentions a temple of Mars 15 stadia distant from

the city, which would answer pretty nearly to the

distance of between 1 and 2 miles given in the

inscription quoted. Ovid says {Fast. vi. 191): —

u Lux eadem Marti festa est; quern prospicit

extra

Appositum tectae Porta Capena viae."

The word prospicit denotes a long view; and as

the temple of Mars stood on a hill, as is evident from

the Clivus Mart is, it might easily be visible at the

distance of a mile or two. The words of Statius

(" qua primum Daaeitur," &c.) must be corrupt,

being both tautological and contrary to fact. The

paving of the road from the Porta Capena to the

temple would not have been worth twice recording

by Livy, had it lain or.iy at a distance of some

.100 yards (x. '23, xxxviii. 28). The only way in

which Becker can escape from the legitimate con­

clusion is by assuming two temples of Mars in this

quarter; in which few, we suspect, will be inclined

to follow him, and which may be regarded as equi­

valent to a confession of defeat. (Becker, Handb.

p. 511, seq.; Antn\ p. 63. seq.; Urlichs, Rom. To~

poijr. p. 105, seq.; Preller, AVyiuwen, p. 116, seq.;

Canina, liulicazion?, p. 56. seq.)

Close to the Porta Capena and the temple of Honos

et Virtus lay the Valley ok E<.kkia with the

Lro s and Afdks Camrnaiu m, the traditionary

spot where Nuina sought inspiration and wisdom

from the nymph Kgeria. (Liv. i. 21; Plut. Sum.

13.) In the time of Juvenal, whose description of

the spot is a locus classicus for its topography, the

grove and temple had been profaned and let out to

the Jew.s:—

"Substitit ad vetcrcs arcus madidamque Cape­

na m

Ilic nbi noctnrnae Noma constituebat amicae.

Nunc sacri fontis nemus et delubra lncantur

Judaeis, quorum cophinus foenumque supellex.

Omnia cnim populo mercedem pendere jussa est

Arbor, et ejectis mendicat silva Camenis.

In vallem Egeriae descendimus et speluncas

Dissiniiles veris. Quanto praestantius esaet

Nnmcn aquae, viridi si marline clauderet

undas

Hcrba, nec ingenuum violarent mannora to-

phum." {Sat. iii. 10, seq.)

It is surprising how Becker could doubt that

there was an Aedes Camenarum here, since it is

not only alluded to in the preoeding passage, but

also expressly mentioned by Pliny (xxxiv. 10.) The

modern Ciceroni point out to the traveller as the

valley of Egeria a pretty retired spot some distance

outside of tlie Porta S. Sabastiatio, in the valley called

La Otffart lla, near which are the remains of a

little temple, called by some the temple of Honos et

Virtus, by others a temple of Bacchus, with a grove

said to be sacred to the latter deity. But though

at present our imagination would more gladly tix

on this spot as the scene of the conferences between

Noma and his nymph, and though respectable au­

thorities are not wanting in favour of this view

(Venuti. Deaer. di Horn. ii. p. 18; Gnattani, AWi.

ftescr. ii. p. 45). yet the preceding passages, to

which may be added Symmachus (" Sad enim

propter eas (aedes Honoris et Virtutis) Camenarum

relicio sacro fonti advertitiu*," Epist, i. 21) and the

Sot)tiat which places the temple of the Camenae

close to that of Honour and Valour, are too cwaw

to allow us to do so: and we moat therefor am

the valley of Egeria to bare ben that am na

church of S. S'uto. opposite to the hubs of Caatah.

The little fountain pointed out as that of E*ena at

the valley CaJTartUa, is perhaps the maara a* a

nymphaeum. Here was probably a sanr:car> at

the Almo. which waters the ralley.

Xear the temple of Mars, since it as mer.t.<*na

the Notitia in conjunction with h.lay tbeTiwut* I

Tempest as, built by L. Cornelius Sciprn. tatnaaT!

of Aleria, in commemoration of the eacapr of ta*aV j

man fleet from shipwreck off the island rt C«aa\ \

as appears from the inscription on MM taaA. 1st

temple and the occasion of its faniua m aV]

lulled to by Ovid (f'tuti, vi. 193) is the iawtaf I

lines: —

"Te quoque, Tempestas, meritam iriuin a»

mur,

Cum paenc est Corsis obrnta class;-

But of the Temple of Misery a, alio air

the same time with that of Mars, we kno» I

more. Near the last was preserved uV

Manaijs, a large cylindrical stone *o ca*:f

manare, " to flow," because during seasons J i

it was carried in procession into the city,

sake of procuring rain. (PauL Diac p. IS8

ap. .Von. xv. p. 375. Gerl.)

Close to the Porta Capena, and probably

of it, lay one of the three Senactla n—^

Kestus; but the only time at which are faw

ings of the senate recorded there is daring

following the battle of Cannae, when they

have been regularly held at this place. (

32.) During the same period the tribxaa

praetor was erected at the Pisco a Fr

last object, which seems to have been

place for the people in the Republican _

p. 213), gave name to the 12th Begia, wkicfc

the 1st, or that of Porta Capena, on the W

Marc. xvii. 4; cf. Cic. ad Quint Fr. iii. 7

pond had, however, vanished in tin time sf

and its exact situation cannot be determined,

are several other objects in this district in utaj

predicament, such as the Laci"s Picom

Bai.nkum Torqi att, and others _

Xvtitia. The Thermae Commodianae

anae will be considered under the _

treats of the thermae. The Mitwokich

perhaps a kind of imperial villa (Prd

p. 115), appears to have been sitnatsd

modem church of 5. Balbina. (Moatia

I'rlichs Horn. Topogr. p. 112.) The

imphal Arches or Tkajax, V_

Dmrsrs, mentioned by the Sotitia in the

probably spanned the Via Appia in the -

tween the temple of Mars and the Porta

The arch still existing just within toe 1

Sebattiano is generally thought to be thai of

the father of the emperor Claudius. (

Senatus, inter alia complura, marrnoreaai

tropaeis via Appia decrevit (I>ruso)," S

1)

For many miles the tombs of _

mans skirt both sides of the Via Appia,

remains are perhaps better calculated

other nhject to impress the stranger with a

idea of Home's former greatness. For the mm

however, they lie beyond the bounds of taa

subject, and we shall therefore

