SICILIA. SICILIA. 981

smson, sad still secured him a footing ia Sicily,

ni M till after a long blockade that his son

fames was compelled to surrender it into the

kof Dies, who thus became master of Syracuse,

354. But the success of Dion was far from

rise liberty to Sicily, or even to the Syracusans:

Orotic proceedings of Dion excited universal

ctrnt, and he was at length assassinated by

ppu, we of his own officers, B. c. 353. The

4 :hst followed was one of great confusion, but

vhich we are very imierfectly acquainted,

naive revolutions occurred at Syracuse, during

) tlx younger Dionysius found means to effect

ituro, and became once more master of Ortygia.

I» mt of the city was still held by a leader

i Siretas, who called in the assistance of the

upoiaoa. Ortygia was now besieged both by

•1 land by a Carthaginan fleet and army. It

i ti» state of things that a party at Syracuse,

y opposed to Hicetas and Dionysius, had re-

ito the parent city of Corinth, and a small force

(W sJdiers was sent to their assistance under

rat, B.C. 344. His successes were rapid and

tt; and within leas than two months from his

f in Sicily, he found himself unexpectedly in

■ueuion of Ortygia, which was voluntarily

'■ J to him by Dionysius. Uicctas and the

were, however, still masters of the

the city; but mistrust and disunion enfeebled

deface: the Carthaginian general Magon

i'y mtJidrew his forces, and Timolcon easily

i the city from the hands of lli.rt.i-.

43.

rae was now restored to liberty and a de­

le f'rrn of government; and the same change

idly extended to the other Greek cities of

These had thrown off the yoke of Syracuse

the disturbed period through which they had

'passed, but had, with few exceptions, fallen

> hands of local despots, who had established

t** in the possession of absolute power. Such

heetaa himself st Leontini, Mamcrcus at

and Hrppon st Messana, while minor despots,

ireek origin, had obtained in like manner the

>wer in the Siculian cities of Apollonia,

» and Atfyritim. Timoleon now turned his

•Drceasion against all these petty rulers, and

* them one after another, restoring the city  
case to the possession of independent and

-COTernment. Meanwhile the Greeks had  
tatrnad with a more general danger from a

"i.-.rnm invasion; but the total defeat of

wrals Handrubat and Hamilcar at the river

i (b. c. 340), one of the most brilliant and

victories ever gained by the Greeks over the

nana, put an end to all fears from that

and the peace that followed once more

si (be Halvcus as the boundary between the

ns (Died. XT. 17).

storatioa of the Sicilian Greeks to liberty

Km, was followed by s period of great

f. Many of the cities had suffered severely,

ci the exactions of their despotic rulers, or

troubles and revolutions that had taken

it toes* were now recruited with fresh

from Corinth, and other cities of Greece,

red into the island in vast numbers; the

re everywhere restored, and a fresh impulse

■ be given to the development of Hellenic

■ ia to* island. Unfortunately this period

If prosperity was of short duration. Only

twenty three years after the battle of the Crimisu*,

a despotism was again established st Syracuse by

Agathocles (n. c. 317), an adventurer who raised

himself to power by very much the same means :ts

the elder Dionysius, whom he resembled in energy

and ability, while be even surpassed him in san­

guinary and unsparing severity. The reign of

Agathocles (b.c 317 289) was undoubtedly a

period that exercised the most disastrous influence

over Sicily; it was occupied in great part with in­

ternal dissensions anil civil wars, as well as by long

continued struggle* between the Greeks and Car­

thaginians. Like Dionysius, Agathocles had, in the

first instance, made use of Carthaginian support, to

establish himself in the possession of despotic power,

but as he gradually extended his aggressions, and

reduced one Greek city after another under his

authority, he in his turn came into fresh colli.-ion

with Carthage. In B.C. 310, he was defeated at the

river Himera, near the hill of Ecnomus, by the

Carthaginian general Hamilcar, in so decisive a

battle that it seemed to extinguish all his hopes:

bis allies and dependent cities quickly threw off bit

yoke, and Syracuse itself was once more blockaded

by a Carthaginian fleet. In this extremity Aga­

thocles adopted the daring resolution of transporting

his army to Africa, and carrying on the war at the

very gates of Carthage. During bis absence (which

was protracted for nearly four years, B.C. 310—307)

Hamilcar had brought a Urge part of Sicily under

the dominion of Carthage, but was foiled in all his

attempts npon Syracuse, and at length was himself

taken prisoner in a night attack, and put to death.

The Agrigentines, whose .lame had been scarcely

mentioned for a long period, but whose city appears

to have been revived under Timoleon, and now again

appears as one of the most considerable in Sicily,

made a fruitless attempt to raise the banner of tn-e-

dom and independence, while the Syracusan exile

Deinocrales, at the head of a large army of exiles

and mercenaries, maintained a sort of independent

position, aloof from all parties. But Agathocles. on

his return from Africa, concluded peace with Car­

thage, and entered into a compromise with Demo-

crates, while he established his own power st Syra­

cuse by a fearful massacre of all that were opposed

to him. >'or the last twelve years of his reign

(b.c. 301—289), his dominion seems to have been

firmly established over Syracuse and a great i ■ ■ rt

of Sicily, so that he was at liberty to follow oat bis

ambitious schemes in the south of Italy and

elsewhere.

After the death of Agathocles (b. c. 289), Sicily

seems to have fallen into a state of great confusion;

Syracuse apparently still retained its predominant

position among the Greek cities, under a d« ~ p *

named Hicetas: but Agrigentum, which had also

fallen into the hands of a despot named Phinlias,

was raised to a position that almost enabled it to

dispute the supremacy. Phintias extended his

dominion over several other cities, and having made

himself master of Gela, utterly destroyed it, in order

to found and people a new city at the mouth of the

river Himera, to which he gave the name of Fhintias.

This was the last Greek city founded in Sicily.

Meanwhile the Carthaginians were becoming moio

and more preponderant in the island, and the Greeks

were at length led to invoke the assistance of

Pyrrhus, king of Epirus, who was at this time

carrying on war in Italy against the tomans. He

readily listened to their overtures, and landed in

3 R 9

