2*r, MAGNA GRAECIA. MAGDOLUM.

on Palestine, Travels, vol. ii. p. 71.; How this last

assertion is to be proved dues not appear. The

authority of Joseph us has been quoted for a Mag-

dab near Gamala, and consequently on the east of the

sea {Vita, § 24); but the reading ia corrupt.

(Robinson, I c. p. 279t note.) [G. W.]

MAG'DOLUM (McryaoAo-, Herod, ii. 159; hut

MoySuAov in LXX.; the Migclol of ihe Old Testa­

ment (Exod. xiv. 2; Numb, xxxiii. 7; 2 Kings,

xxiii. 29; Jerem. xliv. 1, xlvi. 14; Ezek. xxix.

10, xxx. G; It. Anton, p. 171), a town of Lower

Aegypt which stood about 12 miles S. of Pelusium,

on the coast-road between Aegypt and Syro-Phoe­

nicia. Here, according to Herodutus, (/. c.) Pha­

raoh-Xecho defeated the Syrians, about 608 B.C.

Eusebius (Praepar. Erang. ix. 18), apparently re­

ferring to the same event, calls the defeated army

*l Syrians of Judah." That the Syrians should have  
advanced so near the frontiers of Egypt as the Del­

taic Magdolum, with an arid desert on their flanks

and rear (comp. Herod, iii, 5) teems extraordinary;

neither is the suspicious aspect of the Battle of Mag-

dohis diminished by the conquest of Cadytis, a con­

siderable city of Palestine, being represented as its

result. The Syrians might indeed have pushed

rapidly along the coast-road to Aegypt, if they had

previously secured the aid of the desert tribes of

Arabs, as Cambyses did before his invasion of

Aegypt (eomp, Herod, iii. 7). Calmct's Diet, of the

Bible, s. v. Megiddo ; Winer, Bibt. Reabciirterbuch,

vol. ii. p. 93, note 2; Champollion, L'Egypte, vol.

ii. p. 79. [W.B.D.]

MAGELLI, a Ligurian tribe, mentioned only by

Pliny (iii. 5. a. 7). They have been supposed to

have occupied the Valdi Shigella, in the Apennines,

N. of Fhrrence; but though it is certain that the

Eigurians at one time extended as far to the E as

thn, it is very improbable that Pliny should have

included such a tribe in his description of Roman

I.iguria. The name of the Shigella is found in

I'rociipitu (B. G. iii. 5) where he speaks of n place

(%wpio¥) called Mucclla (Moi/WAXa), situated a

dav's journey to the N. of Florence. [E. H. B.]

MAGETO'BRIA or ADMAGETO'BIMA, in

Gallia. Probably the true name ended in -brim or

• hriga. A ri ovist us, the German, defeated the forces

of the Galli in a fight at this place. (Caes. B. G. t.

81.) The site of Matretobria is unknown. The

resemblance of name induced D'Anville (Notice, §*c)

to fix it at Moigte tie Brvie, near the confluence of

the Ognon and the Sonne, a little above Pontarlier.

There is a story of a broken urn, with the inscrip­

tion maoetob., having been found in the Sadne in

1802. But this story is of doubtful credit, and the

urn cannot be found now. Walckenaer supposes

A mage on the Brenrhin, which is west of Faucogney

and east of Luxeuit, to correspond best to the indi­

cations in Caesar's text. But Caesar does not give

Ui the least indication of the position of Mage-

tobria. [G.L]

MAGI. [Media.]

MAGIOVINTCM or MAGIOVIKIUM, in Bri­

tain, a station placed in three of the itinera of

Antoninus at the distance of 24 miles to the N. of

Verulaiuium. Its site is generally supposed to be at

Fenny Stratford. [C. R. S.]

MAGNA (/r.4n(. p.484: GeogT Rawim.). 1. A

town or station in Britain, the site of which is now

occupied hy Kenchenter, in Herefordshire. In both

of the above works the word is in the plural form,

Magnis, moat probably for Magna Castris. Indeed,:

the extraordinary extent of the plat*, M ascertained

by its remains, renders this suggestion more than

probable. The walls, now almost entirely destroy end,

enclosed an area of from 20 to 30 acres. LeUn-i.

Bpeaking of Kenchester, says: — u Ther hath ben

fownd 'nostra memoria Uteres Britannici; ct ex eis-

dem canale*, aqnae ductus, tesMflata pavimeote.

fragmentum catenulae aureae, calcar ex argenxo/

byiddc other strawng things." The te*e*L*t«l

pavements, mentioned by Eeland, have, of late yean,

been partially laid open. The only lapidary inscrip­

tion which appears on record, as discovered at AVa-

c/iester, is a fragment with the name of the etnper«r

Numerian; but coins and miscellaneous antiquities

are still, from time to time, ploughed up.

2. A station in Britain, on the line of the Roman

Wall, mentioned in the Notitia; it also occurs in Grog.

Kavenn.; and probably on the Budge Cup, as Maita,

Its site is that of Carvoran, a Little to the S. of the

Wall, on a high and commanding pobition near the

village of Greenhead.

There seems but little doubt of Carroran beinr

the site of this Magna; although, unlike many of

the Notitia stations on the Wall, its position has not

been identified by inscriptions. The Notitia plan*

at Magna the second cohort of the Dalmatians. At

least two inscriptions found here mention the Ham it,

but none name the Dalmatians. The Hamii do not

appear to be recorded in any other inscriptions, and

they are not mentioned by that name in the Notitia.

Hodgson (Roman Wall and South Tindale, p. 2U5)

considers that these auxiliary troops were from

Aparnenia in Syria, at the confluence of the OrunTes

and Marsyas, 62 miles from Aleppo, which is still

a large place, and called IIamah, and, in anrirnl

times, llama. This conjecture seems feasible, a* the

Notitu mentions the Conors Prima Apamcnorum a*

quartered in Egypt; and also as some altars dedi­

cated to the Syrian goddess have been discovered al

Carvnran. [C. K. S.]

MAGNA GRAE'CIA (h utyd\n *EAAai), »■*

the name given in ancient times by the Greek*

themselves to the assemblage of Greek colonies

which encircled the shores <<f Southern Italy. The

name is not found in any extant author earlier than

Polyoma; but the latter, in speaking of the eitir»

of Magna Graecia in the time of Pytliagoras, o>r»

the expression, "the country that was then called

Magna Graecia" (Pol. ii. 39); and it appears cer­

tain that the name must have arisen at an early

period, while the Greek colonies in Italy wete aft

the height of their power and prosperity, and be­

fore the states of Greece proper had attained a*

their fullest greatness. But the omission <f the

name in Herodotus and Thurydides, even in pas­

sages where it would liavo been convenient as a

geographical designation, seems to show that it was

not in their time generally recognised as a distinc­

tive appellation, and was probably first adopted as

such by the historians and geographers of Liter

times, though its origta must, have been den*wi

from a mm-h earlier age. It is perhaps still uasns

significant, that the name is not found in Srylaa.

though that author attaches particular importance

to the enumeration of the Greek cities ia Italy as

distinguished from those of the barbarians.

Nor is the use of the term, even at a later period,

very fixed or definite. Strabo seeim to imply that

the Greek cities of Sicily were included under the

appellation; but this is certainly opposed to the mora

general uasge, which confined the farm to the outs*

