inn SUETRI. SUESSETANI.

iluit connected with Pometia (Tac. But, iii. 72).

The name of Sueasa Pometia is only once mentioned

before this time, as the place where the sons of

Ant us Marcius retired into exile on the accession of

Senilis. (Liv. i. 41). It is clear also that it sur­

vived its capture by Tarqnin, and even appears again

in the wars of the Republic with the VobcUns,

as a place of great power ami importance. Livy in­

deed calls it a " Colonia Latina," but we have no

account of its having become such. It, however, re­

volted (according to his account) in it. c. 503, and

was not taken till the following year, by Sp. Cassius,

when the city was destroyed and the inhabitant*

sold as slaves. (Liv. ii. 10, 17). It nevertheless

appears again a few years afterwards (B.C. 495)

in the hands of the Volscians, but was again taken

and pillaged by the consul P. Servilius (/&. 25;

Dionva. vi. 29). This time the blow seems to have

been decisive; for tlie name of Sueaaa Pometia is

never again mentioned in history, and all trace of it

disappears. Pliny notices it among the cities which

were in his time utterly extinct (Plin. iii. 5. s. 9).

and no record seems to have been preserved even of

its site. We are, however, distinctly told that the

1'iiinptiinis «iger and the l'otnptine tiibe derived their

appellation from this city (Keat. s. v. Pompfina,

p. 233), and there can therefore be no doubt that it

stood in that district or on the verge of it; but be­

yond this all attempts to determine its locality must

be purely conjectural. [E. H. 15-]

M'KSSKTA'XI, a people of Ilispania Tarra-

conensis, mentioned only by Livy (sjev. 34, xxviii.

Ii4, zjuiv. 20, xxxix. 42) and especially in con­

nection with the Sedetsni (or Edetani). Marca

(UL<p. ii. 9. 4) takes them for a branch of the

Cossetani; and Ukert (ii. pt i. p. 318) seeks them

near theCeltiberi, Lacetani, and Ih rcetes. [T.H.D.]

SUESSIONES, or SUE'SSONES (WeWorst,

Ttol. ii. 9. § 11), a people of Gallia Belgica. The

Remi told Caesar (B. G. ii. 3) in B. C, i>7 that the

Suessiones were their brothers and kinsmen, bad the

Mine political constitution and the same laws,

formed one political hotly with them, and had

the same head or chief; their territory bordered on

the territory of the Remi, and was extensive and

fertile; within the memory of man the Suessooes

had a king, Divitiacus, the most powerful prince in

Gallia, who even bad the dominion of Britannia; at

this time (b. c. 57) they had a king named Gal ha,

a very just and wise man, to whom the BelgM who

were combining against Caesar nnanimouslv pave

the direction of tlie war. The Suessiones had twelve

towns, and promised a contingent of 50,000 men

for the war with Caesar.

Caesar (fi. G. ii. 12) took Noviodunnm, a town

of the Suessiones, and the people submitted [Novio-

Di Ni M; Augusta Suks&ionum]. The Suessiones

had the rich country between the Oise and the

Manw. and the town of Svissoiis on the Aisne pre­

serves their name unchanged. The Sue^iones are

mentioned (ft 0. vii. 75) among the peoples who sent

their contingent to attack Caesar at Alesia, b. c

52; but their force was only 5000 men. Caesar

paid the Suessiones tor their pains by subjecting then

to their brothers the Remi (*?. G. viii.G: **<jui Kemis

erant attributi*'); in which passage the word "atlri-

buii" denotes a political dependence, and in Gallia

tliat blgnitied payment of money. The Remi took

care of themselves [I.'kmiJ.

Pliny names the Suessiones Liberi (iv, 17), which,

if it means anything-, may mean that they were re­

leased in his time from their deprrwewf

Remi. In Pliny's text the name -Swoaa'

between the name Veromandui and \

nobody has yet found out what it means.

The orthography of this narre is Dot eaaS i

tain; and the present name Soittatu b at

truth as any other form. In Strabo (it p. 11

it is 2oue<r<Tia*»'«r, and Lucan (t. 423) fa

M Et Biturix, longieque leves So-

Suessones is a correct ion; tut there bmi

about it (ed. Oudendorp). [6. L]

SUE>»SULA (SowtrovAo: 0k I"

Sfssnlti), a city of Campania, situated in ih* a

of that country, near the frontiers of!

betwen Capua and Nola, and about 4 mhrtl

Acerrae. It is repeatedly mentioned danag \

wars of the Romans with the Samoites. i

their campaigns against HanmbaL Too a I

First Samnite War (u. c. 343) il was the a

decisive victory by Valerius Corvus overt!* S

who had gathered tiigether the retrains of tbora

which had l>een previously defeated at IfastC

(Liv. vii. 37). In the great Camnocian Wars

after, the Suesaulani followed the fattaaa of (

citizens of Capua, and shared the samv fate. I

at the close of the contest they must t»»v i

the li<>man ci vitas, but without the risbcrf i

(Id.viii. 14). In the Second Punic War the eif I

a considerable part, though apparently i

position than its own importance. The fc» «f1

which rues from the level plaio ctf

immediately above Suessnla, and forms I I

prolongation of the ridge of Mount Tifata>i

station almost as convenient as that mcannaal

and in B-C 216, it was occupied by Marnflssl

the view nf protecting Nola, and lntfcasajM

Operstiuns of Hannibal against that city (Liv. 1

14. 17). From this time the Romans at

kept up a permanent camp there f c t

which was known as the Cast™ Cli

the name of Marcellus who had first ■

and which is Continually alluded U i

operations of the subsequent campaigns(be. I

31. xxiv. 46, 47, xxv. 7, 22. xxvi. 9V M 1

this period the name of Sues&ula di-aw

history. It continued to 1« a munkijai 1

Campania, though apparent lr ooe uf a 1

class; and inscriptions attest its mm

under the Empire. It had received a

veterans as colonists under Sulla, but dad i

the colonial rank (Strab. v. p. 249; Pba. is. 3

Orell. Jmcr. 129, 130, 2333; IJk p 1

The Tabula places it on a liiw of i

to Nola, K the distance of 9 mikv from rarfce

cities (Tab. Peut). It wm an episcopal i

first ages of Cl.tistianity, and its

ascribed to the Sanu-ens in the 9th I

ruins are still visible in a si-1 now

marshy forest about 4 mil** & of Mm

an adjacent castle is still called Torrt eh J

Inscriptions, as well as capitals of

other architectural frapneots, hav* been f

(Pratilli Via Appia, iii. 3. p. 347;

iii p. 590). I Hi

SUETRI (Sotnrrptst, PtuL iii. 1. § 4l<

rpioi in >ome edition^). a Ligurian peafa\^

by Pliny (iii. 4) abore Uie Oxrfcii,

the coast bet\*.ecu Frrjut and Aar»6va. TWS

are the last people named in the Trophy of * J

If the position of their town baluiae [Sausalj

