*32 ROMA. ROMA.

its having been the residence of Belisarius during

his defence of Iiome. It is the same building men­

tioned by ProcopitU under the name of iraXdrtov.

(Procop. B. G. ii. 8. 9; Anastasius, V. Silver, pp.

104. 106, Blanch) The part of the Mil included

within the later city was bounded by the wall of

Aurelian, hy tlie valiey irhicfa separates the Pincian

from the Quirinal, and by the Campus Martius on

the west.

The most famous place on the Pincian was the

GARDENS of LuCULLITS. Their situation is de­

termined by a passage in Frontinus, from which we

learn that the arches of the Aqua Virgo began un­

der them. (Aq. 2.) This must have been in the

street called Capo le Case, since the arches are still

in existence from that spot to the Fontami dt Trevi.

(Can'ma, Indie, p. 395.) The early history of these

gardens is obscure. They were probably formed

by a Lucullus, and subsequently came into the pos­

session of Valerius Asiaticus, hy whom they were

so much improved that Measalina's desire of pos­

sessing them caused the death of Valerius. (Tac.

Ann. xi. 1, 32, 37.) They appear to have been also

called after him " Horti Asiatici" (Becker. Handb.

p. 591). and it is possible, as we have said before,

that they may sometimes have borne the name of

"Horti Valeriani."' They were the scene of Messa-

lina's infamous marriage with Sillus (Juv. S. x.

334) and of her death hy the order of Claudius.

(Tac Ann. xi. 37.) The gardens remained in the

possession of the imperial family, and were reckoned

the finest they had. (Plut. Lucull. 39.) The fa­

mily of the Domitii, to which Nero belonged, had

previously possessed property, or at all events a

sepulchre, on the Pincian; and it was here that the

ashes of that emperor were deposited. (Suet. Ntr.

50.) Popular tradition places it on that part of

the hill which overhangs the church of S. Maria

del Popolo near the gate of the same name.

XIII. The Campus Martius, Circus Fla-

minius, and Via Lata.

The whole plain which lies between the Pincian,

Quirinal, and Capitoline hills on the E. and the

Tiber on the W,,—on which the principal part of

modern Home stands,—may be designated generally

by the name of Campus Martius, though strictly

speaking it was divided into three separate dis­

tricts. It is narrow at the northern part be­

tween the Pincian and the river, but afterwards

expands to a considerable breadth by the winding

of the Tiber. It is terminated by the approach

of the latter to the Capitoline hill, between which

and the stream a part of the Servian wall forming

its southern boundary anciently ran. It was cut

through its whole length by a straight road, very

nearly corresponding with the modern Corso, run­

ning from the Porta Flaminia to the foot of the Ca­

pitol. The southern part of the district lying be­

tween this road and the hills formed, under the

name of Via Lata, the 7th of the Augustan Regions;

but how far it extended to the N. cannot be de­

termined. From its northern boundary, wherever

it may have been, to the Porta Flaminia and beyond

that gatG, the road before described was called Via

Flaminia. The southern portion of the Campus

Martius lying between the same road and the Tiber,

as fur N. as the modern Piazza Savona and Piazza

Cotonna, constituted the 9th Region of Augustus,

under the name of Circus Flaminius.

In the earlier times all this district between the

bills and the river was private prupsty.iaA

applied to agricultural purpose*. We

related in the former part of this article, aw,

the expulsion of the Tarqains, the Camp**

was assigned, or rather perhaps reatawd, k

public use. But the southern portion of tat

appears still to have belonged to priTate

The most considerable of there prim Minns

Pkata Flaminia, or Campus Fuuinrrrv

however, must soon have become poblic

since we find that assemblies of the people wt»

here under the decemvirs. (Liv. iiL 54.)

these private estates must have been

Cati, in which was a fountain whenci

called Petronia flowed into the Tiber, and

have formed the southern boundary of

CampusMartius('* Petroniaamnis*

tluens, quam magistratus auspkalo

Campo quid agere volunt," Fest p. 250; <L

Diac. p. 45); also the CAMrus In

property of the vestal Taracia, or Sttffeoa,

she presented to the people. (Plin. inrr. 1

We shall begin the description of this

from its southern side; that is, from the

wall between the Capitoline hill and tie 9

Immediately before the Porta Cannentala

Forum Omtorium. It was, as its torn*

the vegetable market. (Van*. L.L.

The Eunui Herbarius, or bronze

elephant, which stood near the boundary of

Region (v. Xotitia) lias by MJtne topograph

connected with this forum, merely, it words

from the epithet herbarius; but the wall a

made here a decided separation between

and 9th Regions. There were several U

the Forum Olitorium, as those of Spea,

So* pit a, of Pietas, and of Janos. The Ti

Spes was founded by M. Atilius Calatin

First Punic War. (Tac. Ann. ii. 49; Ck.

ii. 23; Liv. xxi. 62.) It was destroyed a

fire which devastated this neighbourhood

Second Punic War (Lir. xxir. 47\

soon rebuilt, was again burnt down in ft. c I

which the restored temple was dedicated

manicus. (Tac /. c.) The Tejvtu «

was consecrated by C. Cornelius Cethe^w

There is a confusion in Ijvy

195.

names of SosriTA and Matuta »n-«d

deity (..Ti; 30, ZXJUT. S3); mnd it ■

to decide which epithet but be the cor

The Temple of Pietas is connected I

well-known legend of the Roman

nourished her father (or mother)

with the milk of her breast, and is sad t»

sided on the spot where the temple wai

(Festus, p. 209 ; Val. Max. ii. 5. § I.) It

cated in B. c. 180 by the son of M. Ac ilia*

in pursuance of a vow made by his

day when he engaged king

mopylae. (Lir. xl. 34.) It was pall*

order to make room for the theatre of

(Plin. vii. 36.) There appears,

been another temple of Pietas in the Cl

minius itself. (Jul. Obs. 114.) C _

Temple of Janus, to which we ban alrsal

verted in the former part of this article. TWa

portion of the Forum Olitoriom moat have hal

grossed by the Theatke or Hajccvxxt'm. af 4

we shall speak in another section; aaa 4

therefore be doubted

the purposes of a

