-110 NEAPOLIS. NEAPOLIS.

though more commonly known as the Fhtme StUa

Maddalenat which still forms the extreme limit of

the suburbs of Naples on the K. .side; from thence

it probably extended as far as the mole ami old

castle, which bound the port on the W. Pliny

■peaks of the small bland which he calls Megaris,

and which can be no other than the rock DOW occu­

pied by the Castel </t/f Uoro, as situated between

PawfUypas and Neapofis (Plin. iii. fi. s. 12); it is

therefore clear that the city did not extend so far as

this point. Immediately above the ancient portion

of the city rises a steep bill, now crowned by the

CastU of St. Elmo; and from thence there runs a

narrow volcanic ridge, of no great elevation, but

steep ami abrupt, which continues without interrup­

tion in a SW. direction, till it ends in a headland

immediately opposite to the island of Ncsis or SUida.

It is the western portion of this ridge which was known

in ancient timet as the Mons Pai'SILYPUs, ami is

still called the Hill of Poiilipo. It formed a marked

barrier between the immediate environs of Xeajvilis

and those of Putcoli and Baiae, and must have been

a great obstacle to the free communication between

the two cities; hence a tunnel was ojiened through

the hill for the passage of the high-road, which has

served that purpose ever iince. This passage, called

in ancient times the Crypta Neapolitan*, and now

known as the Gvutta <H Po$itipot is a remarkable

work of its kind, and has been described by many

modern travellers. It is 2244 feet long, and 21

feet broad: its height is unequal, but, towards the

entrance, is not less than 70 feet. It is probable,

however, that the work has been much enlarged in

later times. Seneca, in one of his letters, gives a

greatly exaggerated view of its fancied horrors,

arising from the darkness and dust. (Sen. Ep. 57.)

Strabo assigns its construction to Cocceius, probably

the M. Cocceius Xerva, who was superintendent of

aqueduct* under Tiberius, and who constructed a

similar tunnel from the lake Avcrnus to CUlnae

(Strab. v. p. 245); and there is no reason to doubt

this statement, though many Italian antiquarians

have maintained that the work must be much more

ancient. On the hill immediately above the E. en­

trance of the gmtto is an ancient sepulchre designated

by tradition as the tomb of Virgil; and though

popular tradition is a very unsafe guide in such

cases, there seems in this instance no sufficient

reason to reject its testimony. We know, from the

precise statement of Donatus, that the poet was

buried on the road to Putcoli, within less than two

miles from Naples (*' via Puteolana intra lapidem

secundem," Donat. Yit. Yirg.; Hieron. Chron. ad

01. l'J'>), which agrees well with the site in ques­

tion, especially if (as is probable) the hi:;h-road at

that time pa>sed over the hill, and not through the

grotto beneath. The argument of Cluverius, who

inferred, from the description of Statius (Silo, it. 4.

50—55), that the tomb of Virgil was situated at

the foot of Mount Vesuvius, is certainly untenable.

(Clover. It'll, p. 1153; Eustace's Classical Tour,

vol. ii. pp. 370—380; Jorio, Onida tli Pozziioli,

j.p. 118, jfC.)

Near the Capo di Posilipo, as the headland oppo­

site to Niiida is now called, are the extensive ruins

of a II..man villa, which are supposed to be those of

the celebrated villa of Vedhis Poliio, which gave

name to the whole hill, and which he bequeathed by

his will to Augustus. (Dion Cass. Ii v. 23; Plin.

ix 53. ?. 78.) Immediately oppose to the head­

land, between it and the itland of Ntsida (Nesis).

lie two email Islets, or rather rocks, one of vtiA

now serves for the Lazzaretto,—the other, which is

uninhabited, is called LaGajola; these are ssffflfl

to be the islands called by Statius Limon too Ea*

ploea, (Stat Sib. ir. 2. 79, iii. 1. 149.) Fnsi

their trifling size it is no wonder that they iff ost

noticed, by any other author. Ilecent fxcavitsan

on the sup[>osed site of the villa of Poliio bsst

brought to light far more extensive remains thai

were previously known to exist, and which a&Tsii

strong illustration of the magnificent scale on vtsSJ

these edifices were constructed. Among the rial

thus brought to light are those of a theatre, ttn

seats of which are cut out of the tufa rock; SI

Odeon, or theatre for music; a Iiasilica; besides ss>

merous porticoes and other edifices, and exlosiH

reservoirs for water. But the mo>t rrmuiafll

work connected with these remains is a tunnel fl

gallery pierced through the promontory, which I

actually longer than the Grotta dt Posilipo, W

work appears from an inscription to have bees w

stored by the emperor Honorius; the period sfl

construction is wholly uncertain. (BulUiL eUaf

Arch. 1841, pp. 147—160; Avellino, BvUeO. I

cheoL XapttL 1843, Nos, 4—6.) Many writing

assigned the extensive ruins visible on the bBl

PooiUpo to a villa of Lucullan; and it is ceres]

that that statesman had a Neapolitan villa data*

from that at Misenum (Cic. Acad, ii. 3). butt

site is nowhere indicated; and the supposition^

it was the same which afterwards passed into I

hands of Vedius Poliio is not warranted by ■

ancient authority.

Though the neighbourhood of Xapleo abosasM

all sides in ancient remains, those* which are 4

extant in the city itself are inconsiderable, %

arches of a Hainan theatre in the street called Jfl

ca'/lia, a fragment of an aqueduct known byf

name of the Ponti Rossi, and the n mains af

temple dedicated to Castor and Pollux, lacorpBSfl

into the church of S. Pooh, are all the ancientUq

now visible. But the inscriptions which haws |J

discovered on the site, and are for the mott parti

served in the museum, arc numerous and intsasnai

They fully confirm the account piven by sauf

writers of the Greek character so long retaissnV

tho city, and notice its division into Phntriea,nfl

must have continued at least as late as the rajsjg

Hadrian, since we find one of them naxneu afharj

favourite Autinous. Others bore the names «f 1

melidae, Kunostidae, &c, the origin of whicafl

probably be traced back to the first ft-uiidanafj

the Cumaean colony. From some of these SBsnj

tions we learn that the Greek language routaosssl

be u^ed there, even in public documents, aa !■

the second century after the Christian era. (BoSa

C. I. vol. iii. pp. 714—750; Moaims^n, Jl

Roan. Neap. pp. 127—131.)

COIN OF NEA 1*0103 IS CAMFAJCIA.

2. (.V(fW),a city of Sardinia, and aprstrrotlysj

the most considerable places in that Uland, wna i

atcd on the \V. coast, at the southern citrons'

