SALAMIS. 877 SALAMIS.

.vagurai with his son Puytagoras was assassinated

.1 » eunuch, slave of Nicocreon (Aristot. Pul. v. |

• § 10; Diuuto. xv. 47; Theopomp. Fr. iii. ed.

W"*). and was succeeded by another son of the

*ro<- of Xicocle*. The Graeco- Aegyptian fleet un-  
rr 3leotlaiu and his brother Ptolemy Sutcr was

Itexlj drfeated off the harbour of Salami* in a sea-

gal, lie greatest in all antiquity, by Demetrius

-. .o-to., a. c. 3t)6. (Diodor. xx. 45—53.) The  
inv«u rourteian Lamia funned a part of the booty

IVtneu-ius, orer whom she soon obtained un-

«-i»lrd influence. Finally, Salamis came into the

of Ptolemy. (Plut. Demttr. 35; I'olyaen.

riiuy. 5.) Under the Roman Empire the Jews

if numerous in Salamis (AcU, xiii. 6), where

*y liad ninre than one synagogue. The farm-  
c "I the copper mines of the island to Herod

Amtiq. it. 14. § 5) may have swelled the

who were attracted by the advantages of its

rmtir and trade, especially its manufactures of

trwiered stuff). (Atben. ii. p. 48.) In the

•J»*»bl« revolt of the Jews in the reign of Trajan

• f'paJou* city became a desert. (Milmart, //i»«.

'*»* An, vol iii. pp. 111, 112.) Its demolition

» ^inpjrted by an earthquake: but it was rebuilt

a Christian emperor, from whom it was named

MIUTU. It was then the metropolitan see of

- iWand. Epiphanius, the chronicler of the  
Mical sects, was bishop of Constantia in A. o.

7. In the reign of Heraclius the new town was

itrored by the Saracens.

Tuf ground lies low in the neighbourhood of

»-!•>. sml the town was situated on a bight of the

at to the X. of the river Pediaeus. This low

• is the largest plain—Salami.ma—in Cyprus,

ifrai&j? inward between the two niountuin ranges

±- heart of the country where the modem

ii ~'i c-af4tal—.Vicosia—is situated. In the Life

i 1 ri*tUa vf St. 7*hm/, by Coneybeure slid How-

(txJ. i. p. 169). will he found a plan of the har-

■i >-r«i nuns ot Salamis, from the survey made by

"uud Grave*. Fur coins of Salamis, see Eckhd,

ui.p.87. [E. 11. J.]

v\ l.AiJIS (ZaAo/ur, -iWof: Eth. and Ailj. 2a-

anef, Salaminius: Adj. SoAcumwoko's, Suls-

AWwi), an island lying between the i

of Altira and the eastern coast of

and forming the southern boundary of the

af Elrtuia. It is separated from the coasts

. -if Attica and of Mcgaris by only a narrow

ia i. Its form is that of an irregular semicircle

the west, with many small indentations

a* the ooaaat. Its greatest length, from X. to S., I

Boot 10 miles, and its width, in its broadest

I, fnan E- to W.. is a little more. Its length is

■rtly grrven by Stxabo (ix. p. 393) as from 70

"i <a>iia. In ancient times it is said to have

i railesl Pttynssa (rim/ovo-ira), from the pines

r.i grew there, and also Sciras (2xipd>) and

aKKJA (Kwxf**'a)« f™1** the names of two he-

«w-irua ax*d Cychreus. The former was a

t< brro, and the Utter a seer, who raine from

><s to Athens, and perished along with Ereeh-

» iu righting against Eumolpus. (Strab. ix.

S3. Paw- i. 36. § 1; I'liilochor. np. Plut.

i IT.) The latter name was per|*tuated in

u-~i for Aeschylus (Peri. 570) speaks of the

e. K»xP****' an<* Stephanos B. mentions a

wsrj-w*. The island is said to have ul>-

■1 the name of Salamia from the mother of

i.-,u3 who was also a daughter of Asopus.

(Pans. i. 35. § 2.) It was colonised at an early

period by the Aeacidne of Acgina. Telamon, the

son of Aeacus, fled thither after the murder of his

half-brother Phocus, and became sovereign of the

island. (Paus. i. 35. § 1.) His son Ajax accom­

panied the Greeks with 12 Salaminian ships to the

Trojan War. (Horn. //. ii. 557.) Salamis con­

tinued to be an imle|>endeut state till about the

beginning of the 40th Olympiad (u. c. 620). when a

dispute arose fur its possession between the Athenians

and Megarians. Afiera long struggle, it first fell into

the hands of the Megarians, hut was subsequently

taken possession of by the Athenians through a stra­

tagem of Solon. (Plut. Sol. 8, 9; Paus. i. 40. § 5.)

Both parties appealed to the arbitration of Sparta.

The Athenians supported their claims by a line in

the Iliad, which represents Ajsx ranging his ships

with those of the Athenians (//. ii. 558). but this

verse was susjected to have been an interpolation of

Solun or Peisistratus; and the Megarians cited

another version of the line. The Athenians, more­

over, asserted that the inland had lieeu made over

to them by Philaeus and Eurysnces, sons of the

Telamonian Ajsx, when they took up their own

residence in Attica. These arguments were con­

sidered sufficient, and Salamis was adjudged to the

Athenians. (Plut. Sol. 10; Strab. ix. p. 394.)

It now became an Attic demus, and continued in­

corporated with Attica till the times of Macedonian

supremacy. In B.C. 318, the inhabitants volun­

tarily received a Macedonian garrison, after having

only a short time before successfully resided Cas-

sander. (Diod. xviii. 69; Polyaen. Strat. iv. II.

§ 2; Paus. i. 35. § 2.) It continued in the hands of

the Macedonians till n. c. 232, when the Athenians,

by the assistance of Arstus, puivhnsed it from the

Macedonians together with Munychia and Sunium.

Thereupon the Sulauiinians were exalted from the

island, and their lands divided among Athenian

cleruchi. (Plut. Aral. 34 ; Paus. ii. 8. § C; Buckli,

Itucr. vol. i. p. 148, seq.) Prom that time Salamis

probably continued to be a dependency of Athens,

like Acgina and Oropus; since the grammarians

never call it a Si>»», which it hod been originally,

but generally a woAir.

The old city of Salamis, the residence of the Te­

lamonian Ajax, stood upon the southern side of the

island towards Aegina (Strab. ix. p. 393). and is

identified by Leake with the remains of some Hellenic

w-alls upon the south-western coast near a small

port, where is the only rivulet in the island, perhaps

answering to the Bocarus or Bocamas of Strsbo

(ix. p. 394: Leake, f)rmi, p. 169). The Bocarus

is also mentioned by Lycopltron (451). In another

passage, Strabo (ix. p. 424) indeed speaks of u

river Cephissus in Salamis; but as it occurs only

in an enumeration of various rivers of this name,

and immediately follows the Athenian Ccphissus

without any mention beini; made of the Elcusinian

Cephissus, we ought probably to read with Leake

iv 'EAfi/tfifi instead of iv SaAa/uii

When Salamis became an Athenian demus, a new

city was built at the head of a bay upon the eastern

side of the island, and opjiosite the Attic coA&t. In

the time of Pausanius this city alsu had fallen into

decay. There remained, however, a ruined agora

and a temple of Ajax, containing a statue of the

hero in ebony; also a temple of Artemis, the trophy

erected in honour of the victory gained over the

Persians, and a temple of Cychreus. (Paus. i. 35.

§ 3, 36. § I.) Pausauias has not mentioned the

