SAMNIUM. SAMNIUM. 893

cthfr Vobdua [Privbrxuh]. But the power of

tit Vohciins seems to have been by this time very

i.och broken op; and it was apparently during this

:n:irril that the Samnites on their side carried on

u-msfn] hostilities against that people, and wrested

f-m them or destroyed the cities of Sora and

Frrcrilat in the valley of the Liris, while they

tinatnrd Fabrateria with the same fato (Liv. viii.

H. 23, x. 1). This movement, however, gave

iibare to Uie Romans, while the Samnites on their

esald not view with indifference the reduction

<f the Sdirini. and it was evident that a fresh

rjpf ore between the two nations could not be long de-

ut«d(ld. viii. 17,19). The attention of the Samnites

*«. however, drawn off for a time by the danger  
tbt threatened them from another quarter, and they

with their kinsmen the Lucanians to oppose

lb arms of Alexander, king of Epirus, who was

uiriwui): from Paestum into the heart of the

>xsut. Both Samnites and Lucanians were defeated

■5 Lirn in a pitched battle; but he subsequently

oraeii bis arms towards the south, and his death in

; 326 relieved the Samnites from all appre-

•vita in that quarter. (Liv. viii. 17, 24.)

The urn year (n. c. 326) witnessed the outbreak

''!* Second Samnite War. The immediate occasion

f tha was the assistance furnished by the Samnites

1 liie Greek cities of Palaepolis and Keapolis,

;i.tut which the Romans had declared war, when

'•• M-nnitef and Nolans (who were at this time in

laaacw with Samnium) threw into their cities a

n n; body of auxiliaries as a garrison. They did

t. .Wtver, avert the fall of Palaepolis; while Nea-

'*» escaped a similar fate, only by espou*ing the

L-.rf of Rjme, to whicli it ever after steadily

istrod (Liv. viii. 22—26). The Romans liad about

» one time secured a more important alliance in

■i'^r quarter; the Lucanians and Apulians, with

an, as Livy remarks, the republic had previously

i! a> relations, either friendly or hostile, now con-

atej an alliance with Rome (76. 25). The Lu-

ij»s» indeed were soon persuaded by the Tarcntines

'I'Udtn it again (lb. 27), bnt the Apulians

ftnaed steadfast; and though it is evident that

i vb4e nation waa not united, and that many of

>rharf towns took part with the Samnites, while

continued to side with Rome, yet such a

lenao must have been of the greatest consequence,

an throughout the war we find the contest divided

; portions, the Romans on the one side being

rved with the Samnites on the frontiers of Cam-

■ia, and in the valley of the Vulturous, from

•not they gradually pushed on into the heart of

axuam; and on the other carrying on the war in

K>a, in support of their allies in that country,

'-1 the hostile cities supported by the Samnites.

■ "-lent that the Frentani must have at this

* already separated themselves from the Samnite  
are*, otherwise it would have been impossible for

i Kamaos to march their armies, as we find them

«u>lly doing, along the coast of the Adriatic

'Apulia. (Lit. ix. 2, 13.)

H» £rst operations of the war were unimportant;

Kenans conquered some small towns in the

*T U the Vultumus (Liv. viii. 25): anil we are  
t that Q. Fabius and L. Papirius gained repeated

* -3 over Uie Samnites, so that they even sued  
gon, bat obtained only a truce for a year, and,

-'i: <*«erriag even this, resumed the contest with  
reaasa forces. (lb. 30, 36, 37.) It is evident

rr&n that no real impression had been made

upon their power. Nor did the victory of A. Cor­

nelius Arvina in the following year (b. c. 322),

thongh it again induced them to sue for peace

without success, produce any permanent effect; for

the very next year (u. c. 321) the Samnites under

the command of C. Pontius were not only able to

take the field with a large army, but inflicted on

the Romans one of the severest blows they had ever

sustained in the celebrated pass of the Caudine

Forks. [Caudium.] There can be little doubt

that the circumstances and character of that disaster

are greatly disguised in the accounts transmitted to

us; but, whatever may have been its true nature, it

is certain that it caused no material interruption of

the Roman arms, and that, after repudiating the

treaty or capitulation concluded by the consuls, the

Romans renewed the contest with undiminished

vigour. It is impossible here to follow in detail the

operations of the succeeding campaigns, which were

continued for seventeen years with many fluctuations

of fortune. The disaster at Candium shook tha

faith of many of the Roman allies, and was followed

by the defection even of their own colonies of Sa-

tricnm, Fregellae, and Sora. Some years later

(n. c. 315) the capture of Saticnla by the Romans

and of Plistia by the Samnites shows that both

armies were still engaged on the very frontiers of

Samnium; while the advance of the Samnites to

the pass of Lautulae, and the victory which they

there a second time obtained over the Romans (Liv.

ix. 22, 23; Diod. xix. 72), once more gave a shuck

to the power of the latter, and for a moment endan­

gered their supremacy in Campania. But they

speedily recovered the advantage, and the victory

gained by them at a place called Cinna (of uncertain

site) decided the submission of the revolted Cam-

pnnians. (Liv. ix. 27 ; Diod. xix. 76.) Their arms

had meanwhile been successful in Apulia, and

had ultimately effected the reduction of the whole

province, so that in B.C. 316 the consul Q. Aemilius

Barbula was able to carry the war into Lucania,

where he took the town of Nerulutn. (Liv. ix. 20.)

The decisive victory of the consuls of n. c. 314 had

also for the first time opened the way into the

heart of Samnium, and they laid siege to Bovianuin,

tho capital of the Pentri. The next year was

marked by the fall of Kola, followed by that of

Atina and Calatia (Cajazso); and it seemed pro­

bable that the war was at length drawing to a close

in favour of the Romans, when the outbreak of a

fresh war with the Etruscans in B. c. 311 divided

the attention of that people, and, by occupying a

large part of their forces in another quarter, operated

a powerful diversion in favour of the Samnites. To

these additional enemies were added the Umbriana

as well as the Marsi and Pcli^ni; yet the Romans

not only made head against all these nations, but at

the same time carried their victorious arms into the

heart of Samnium. Bovianum, the capital city of

the Pentri, was twice taken and plundered, once in

311 by C. Junius, and again in 305 by T. Minucins.

At the same time Sora and Arpinuin were finally

added to the Roman dominion. These successive

defeats at length compelled the Samnites to sue for

pence, which was granted them in B. c. 304; but on

what terms is very uncertain. It seems impossible to

believe that the Romans, as asserted by Livy, should

have restored them their ancient treaty of alliance,

and it is probable that they in some form consented to

acknowledge the supremacy of Rome. (Liv. ix. 45;

Dionyt. Exc. p. 2331; Niebuhr, vol iii.p. 2C9.)

