S22 ROMA.

TOMli OF MKTKLLA CAKCIUA.

Pom us Cii/wis, ami Pomi*s Coiisifkif.s. The

Domna Parthorum and Cilonis seem to have been

some of those palaces erected by Septimius Severus,

and presented to his friends. (Aur. Vict. Epit. 20.)

Cilon is probably the same person mentioned by Pion

(Ixxvii. 4), Spartian (Coroc. 3), and in the Digest

(i. 12. l,and 15. 4.) The Part hi seem to have been

Parthian nobles, whom S'verus brought with him to

Home, and of whose luxurious habits Tertullian has

drawn a characteristic picture. (De Hab. Mul. ".)

The Piuvata AiutiAM and the DoMUS Cormfi-

ens (Corniticiae) mentioned in the Nvtitia, lay

duubtless close together. The former must have been

the private residence of Hadrian, where M. Antoninus

dwelt after his adoption by that emperor. (Jul.

Capit. M. Anton. 5.) M. Antoninus had ■ younger

sister named Anna Cornifieia, to whom the house

bearing her name doubtless belonged. {Ib. c. 1;

Prcller, Iiegioncn, p. 198.)

XI. The Esquilink and its Neighbourhood-

The Esquiline {EsquiUae, or in a more ancient

form Exquffiae) was originally covered with a thick

Wood, of which, in the time of Varro, the only re­

mains were a few sacred groves of inconsiderable

extent, the rest of the hill having been cleared and

covered with buildings. (Varr, L.L. v. § 49,

Mull.) Yet the derivation of the name of the hill

from attculetum seems to hnve been unknown to an­

tiquity, and is a mere conjecture of Mailer's {ad

foe.); the ancient etymology being derived either

from excubiae regis, because Servius Tullius had

fixed his abode there, or from excolere, because the

hill was first cleared and settled by that king.

(Varr. /. c.; Ov. East. hi. 245.)

We have already described the Esquiline as

throwing out two tongues or projections, called

respectively, in the more ancient times of Koine,

Opph s and Cisi'ius. Their relative situation is in­

dicated in the following passage of Festus; "Op-

pms autem appellatus est, ut ait Varro rerum

humanarutu L. viii., ab Opilft Oppio Tiwculano,

qui cum praesidio Tusculanorum missus ad liomam

tnendam, dura Tullus Hostihus Veios oppugnaiet,

consederat in Carinis et ibi castra habuerat. Simi­

liter Cispinra a Laevio Cispio AnagTuno,

dem rci causa earn partem E^uiU&ram,

ad victim I'atrieium versus, in qua region*

Mefitis, tuilus eat" (p. 348, MJli.Y

learn that the Cispius was thai projectia

adjoined the Vicus Patricks, and

quently have been the northern one, |

Patricius is known to have corresponded

modern streets called Via i rbaua and i *;

denziana, which traverse the valley lying *

ViminaJ and the* Esquiline. The fallowing

of Paulus Piaconus shows that the Yicos

must have lain in a valley: "Patricias i

dictus eo, quod ibi patiicii h&biiaverunt,

Servio Tullio, ut, si quid molirentur

ex locis superioribus opprimerentur'

Mull.); and its identity with the modern

mentioned appears from Anasl&sios (Tat

u Hie ex ro^atu beatae Pntssedis dedicarift

thermas Novati in vico Patricii in

suae sanctae Potenlianae" (p. 14). This

5. Pudemiana still exists in the street of

name. It is also mentioned by the

Einsiedlen, in whose time must of the

bore their ancient names, as being

tricii." That the Cispius was the smaller

northern tongue likewise appears frjtn

books of the Argives (op. Varr. L^L±

which, in proceeding northwards from the

first name the Oppius, which had tsar

chapels, and then the Cispius, which,

smaller bill, had only two, namely, the

telius and the Aedes JunonU Lacunae.

From the passage of Fe>tu* just

pears that part of Mons Oppius bon

CARINAS; and this appellation <

when the names Oppius and CUptus i

i of use and been superseded by th*

! Effpi'diae. Vet it is one of the

Ivanan topography whether the C

| part of the hill. The Italians still I

i eient opinion that under th.it name I

hended the low ground from the >«

j torium to the Colosseum. Becker

seq.) partly adopted this riew, bat ml ta*>

