INDIA. 45 INDIA.

•sow). (Strab. xt. pp. 711—714; Clem. Alex.

Strom. L 131.) Again Daimachus, who lived for a

kog time at Palibothra (Strab. ii. p. 70), wrote a

work upon India, which, though according to Strabo

fall of fables, must also hare contained much valu­

able information. Patrocles, whom Strabo evidently

deemed a writer of veracity (Strab. ii. p. 70), as

tlie admiral of Seleucus, sailed upon the Indian

Ocean, and left an account, in which he stated his

belief that India was the same breadth that Mc-

gasthenes had maintained (Strab. ii. p. 69. xv.

f. 689); but also that it could be circumnavigated—

an erroneous view, which seems to have arisen from

the idea, that the Caspian Sea and the Northern

Ocean were connected. (Strab. ii. p. 74, xi. p. 518.)

With the establishment of the mathematical

schools at Alexandria, commenced a new aera in

Grecian geography; the first systematic arrangement

of the divisions of the earth's surface being made by

Eratosthenes (b.c. 276—161), who drew a series of

parallels of latitude—at unequal distances, however

—through a number of places remotely distant from

one another. According to his plan, his most

southern parallel was extended through Taprobane

and tbe Cinnamon coast (the SE. end of the Arabian

Gmlf); his second parallel (at an interval of 3400

stadia) passed though the S. coast of India, the

mouths of the Indus and Meroe; his third (at an

interval of 5000 stadia) passed through Palibothra

and Syene; his fourth (at a similar interval) con­

nected the Upper Ganges, Indus, and Alexandria;

hu fifth (at an interval of 3750 stadia) passed

thruugb Thina (the capital of the Seres), the whole

ehaio of tbe Emodus, Imaus, Paropamisus, and the

island of Rhodes. (Strab. i. p. 68, ii. pp. 113—132.)

At tbe same time be drew seven parallels of lon­

gitude (or meridians), the first of which passed

through the E. coast of China, the second through

tbe mouths of the Ganges, and the third through

those of the Indus. His great geographical error

was that the intersection of his meridians and lati­

tudes formed right angles. (Strab. ii. pp. 79, 80,

92,93.) The shape of the inhabited portion of the

globe he compared to a Macedonian CMamyi ex­

tended. (Strab. ii. p. 118, xi. p. 519; Macrob.

&m. Sap. iL 9.) The breadth of India between

tbe Ganges and Indus he made to be 16,000 stadia.

Taprobane, like his predecessors, he held to be 5000

stadia long.

Hipparchus (about b. c. 150), the lather of Greek

astronomy, followed Patrocles, Daimachus, and

Megasthenes, in his view of the shape of India;

making it, however, not so wide at tbe S. as Era­

tosthenes had made it (Strab. ii. pp. 77,81), but

mncb wider towards the N., even to tbe extent of

from 20,000 to 30,000 stadia (Strab. ii. p. 68). Ta­

probane be held not to be an island, but the com­

mencement of another continent, which extended

onward to the S. and W.,— following, probably, the

idea which had prevailed since the time of Aristotle,

that Africa and SE. India were connected on the

other side of the Indian Ocean. (Mela, iii. 7. § 7;

Pun. vi. 22. a. 24.) Artemidorus (about n. c. 100)

states that the Ganges rises in the Mantes Emodi,

flews S. till it arrives at Gauge, and then E. by

Palibothra to iU mouths (Strab. xv. p. 719): Ta­

probane he considered to be about 7000 stadia

keg and 500 broad (Steph. IS.). The whole

bnadtb of India, from the Ganges to the Indus, he

Bade to be 16,000 stadia. (Plin. vi. 19. s. 22.)

The greater pari of all that was known up to his

time was finally reduced into a consistent shape by

Strabo (b. c. 66—a. d. 36). His view of India

was not materially different from that which had

been the received opinion since Eratosthenes. He

held that it was the greatest and most Kastern land

in the world, and the Ganges its greatest stream

(ii. p. 130, xv. pp. 690, 719); that it stretched S.

as far as the parallel of Meroe, but not so far N. as

Hipparchus thought (ii. pp. 71, 72,75); that it was

in shape like a lozenge, the S. and E. being the

longest sides. Its greatest breadth was 16,000

stadia on tbe E., its least 13,000 on the W.; its

greatest length on the S., 19,000 stadia. Below

the S. coast he placed Taprobane, which was, in his

opinion, not less than Great Britain (ii. p. 130,

xv. p. 690). Pliny the Elder and Pomponius Mela.

who were contemporaries, added somewhat to the

geographical knowledge previously acquired, by in­

corporating into their works the results of different

expeditions sent out during the earlier emperors.

Thus, Pliny follows Agrippa in making India 3300

M. P. long, and 2300 M. P. broad, though he him­

self suggests a different and shorter distance (vi.

17. s. 21); while, after Seneca, he reckoned that it

contained 118 peoples and 60 rivers. The Emodus,

Imaus, Paropamisus, and Caucasus, he connected in

one continued chain from E. to W., stating that S.

of these great mountains, the land was, like Egypt,

one vast plain (vi. 18. s. 22), comprehending many

wastes and much fruitful land (vi. 20. s. 23).

For a fuller notice of Taprobane than had been given

by previous writers, he was indebted to the ambas­

sadors of the emperor Claudius, from whom he

learnt that it had towards India a length of 10,000

stadia, and 500 towns,—one, the capital, Palaesi-

mundum, of vast size. The sea between it and the

continent is, he says, very shallow, and the distance

from the nearest point a journey of four days (vi. 22.

s. 24). The measurements of the distances round

the coast of India he gives with some minuteness,

and in some instances with less exaggeration than

his predecessors.

With Marinus of Tyre and Claudius Ptolemaeus,

in tbe middle of the second century, the classical

knowledge of geography may be said to terminate.

The latter, especially, has, in this branch of know­

ledge, exercised an influence similar to that of

Aristotle in the domain of the moral and physical

sciences. Both writers took a more comprehensive

view of India than had been taken before, owing in

some degree to the journey of a Macedonian trader

named Titianus, whose travels extended along the

Taurus to the capital of China (Ptol. i. 11. § 7),

and to the voyage cf a sailor named Alexander, who

found his way across the Indian Ocean to Cattigara

(Ptol. i. 14. § 1), which Ptolemy places in lat. 8°

30" S., and between 170° and 180° E. long. Hence,

his idea that the Indian Ocean was a vast central

sea, with land to the S. Taprobane he held to be

four times as big as it really is (vii. 4), and the

largest island in the world; and he mentions a

cluster of islands to the NE. and S. (in all pro­

bability, those now known as the Maldives andZoc-

ciulives). In the most eastern part of India, be­

yond the Gulf of Bengal, which he terms the

Golden Chersonesus, he speaks of Iabadius and

Maniolae; the first of which is probably that now

known as Java, while the name of the second has

been most likely preserved in Manilla. The main

divisions of India into India intra Gangem and

I India extra Gangem, have been adopted by the

