LACONIA. LACOKIA. 109

tnvnity of Greece. This mountainous district between

the Laconian and Messfiiian gulfs is now called

Mam, aikl is inhabited by the Mania tes, who always

maintained their independence, while the rest of

(ireece was subject to the Turks : the southern part

or the peninsula, as well as the promontory, bore the

name of Taenaruin in antiquity. [Taenarum.]

Although there is no trace of any volcanic action in

Jit- Taygetus, many of its chasms and the rent

forms of its rocks have been produced by the nume­

rous and violent earthquakes to which the district

has been subjected. Hence Lacoiiia is called by

Homer *' full of hollows" (lojT&Wo-a, 77. ii. 581,

(hi. iv. 1). and Strabo describes it as a country

easily shaken by earthquakes (Strab. viii. p. 367).

Id tlie fearful earthquake, which laid Sparta in

ruins in it. c. 464, and killed more than 20,000

Lacedaemonians, huge masses of rocks were rolled

down fruin the highest peaks of Taygetus. (Hut.

Cm. 16.)

On the sides of Mt. Taygetus are forests of deep

gram pine, which abounded in ancient times with

puM and wild animals, among which Pausanias

i;-rations wild goats, wild boars, staffs, and bears.

The district between the summits of Taletum and

Evoras was called Tiikras (€bjf»as), or the hunting

ground. (Pans, iii. 20. §§ 4, 5.) Hence Taygetus

was one of the favourite haunts of the huntress

Artemis (Od. vi. 103), and the excellence of the

Laoonian dogs was proverbial in antiquity. (Aristot.

Hist An. vi. 20; Xen. de Ten. 10. § 1; Virg.

Gtorg. iii. 405; Hor. Epod. vi. 5.) Modern travellers

t*li us tltat trie dogs of the country still support

their ancient character for ferocity and courage.

(Mare, vol. ii. p. 231.)

The southern part of Mount Taygetus is rich in

marble and iron. Near Croceae there were quarries

^i green porphyry, which was extensively employed

by the Romans. [Crockae.] There was also

another kind of marble obtained from quarries more

to the south, called by the Romans Taenarian marble.

Tbe whetstones of Mount Taygetus were likewise in

much request (Strab. viii.p. 367; "Taenarius lapis,"

PUn. xsxvi. 22. s. 43; "cotes Laconicae ex Targeto

moute," Plin. xxxvi. 22. s. 47.) The iron found in

U»e mountain was considered very good, and was

tnnch used in the manufacture of warlike weapons

and agricultural in>>trtiments. (Stepb. B. s. v.

AtuttHaifutv. Xen. JleU. iii. 3. §7; Plin. vii. 57;

Kustath. nd II. p. 298, ed. Rom.)

Mocnt PMtNOX (o ndpvuv, Pans. ii. 38. § 7)

u of an entirely different character from the opposite

range of Taygetus. It does not form one uninter­

rupted line of mountains, but us broken up into

various detached masses of less elevation, which

fjjm a striking contrast to the unbroken and ma­

jestic barrier of Taygetus. The mass to which the

name of Parnon was more especially applied was

the ran^e of mountains, now called Malevo, forming

the natural boundary between Arcadia, I,aconia,

ao-1 Argolis, It is 6355 feet high, and its summit

U nearly equidistant from the Eurotas and tbe

ea»Urn coast. This mountain is continued in a

ET.fral south-easterly direction, hut how far south­

wards it continued to bear the name of Parson is

unknown. Its eastern declivities, which extend as

f« a* tbe coast at a considerable elevation, contain

tb* <ii»tri<:t now called Tzaiunia, a corruption of the

»<rd Lacouia, the inhabitants of which speak a

•lutWt cl-a«ly resembling the ancient Greek: of this

•■ accanut lias been given elsewhere. [Vol. I.

p. 728.] On its western side Mt. Parnon sinks

lown more rapidly, and divides itself into separate

hills, which bear the names of Barbosthknes,

Olympus, Ossa, Tiiornax, and Menelaiim; the

two last are opjx>sito Sparta, and a modern observer

describes Menelaium as not remarkable either for

height or variety of outline, but rising gradually in

a succession of gentle ridges. (Mure, vol. ii. p. 223.)

In its southern continuation, Mt. Parnon still con­

tinues of moderate height till near the commence­

ment of the peninsula between the Myrtoan and

Laconian gulfs, where it rises under the name of

Mount Zarax (Zapa£) to a height of 3500 feet,

and runs along the eastern coast at a considerable

elevation, till it reaches the promontory of Malea.

The Ei-kotas (Eypjiras) flows, as already ob­

served, throughout the entire length of the valley

between the ranges of Taygetus and Parnon. Its

more ancient names were Bomycas (Baijuwtas,

Etym. M. s. v.) and Himrrus ("l/i*po$, Plut. de

Fluv. 17): it is now called Iris and Niris in its

upper and middle course, and Banli-potamo from

the time it leaves the Spartan plain till it reaches

the sea. In its course three districts may be dis­

tinguished;— the vale of the upper Eurotas; the

vale of the middle Eurotas, or the plain of Sparta;

and the vale of the lower Eurotas, or the maritime

plain. 1. The Vale of tJie Upper Eurotas. The

river Eurotas rises in the mountains which form the

southern boundary of the Arcadian plains of Asea

and Megalopolis. It was believed by both Pausanias

and Strabo that the Alpheius and the Eurotas had

a common origin, and that, after flowing together

for a short distance, they sank under ground; tho

Alpheius reappearing at Pegae, in the territory of

Megalopolis in Arcadia, and the Eurotas in the

Bleminatis in Laconia; but for a fuller account of

their statements upon this subject the reader is

referred to the article Alpheius. All that we

know for certain is that the Eurotas is formed by

the union of several copious springs rising on the

southern side of the mountain above mentioned, and

that it flows from a narrow glen, which gradually

opens towards the SSW. On the eastern side it

keeps close to the mountains, while on the western

side there is a little level ground and some moun­

tain slopes between the river and the heights of

Taygetus. At the distance of little more than a

mile from Sparta, the Eurotas receives the Oenl\s

(OiVoDs, Polyb. ii. 65,66; Athen. i. p. 31; Liv.

xxxiv. 28), now called Kthfina, which rises

in the watershed of Mt. Parnon, and flows in a

general south-westerly direction: the principal tri­

butary of the Oenus was the Gorgylus (TdpyvXos,

Polyb. ii. 66), probably the river of Vretntend.

(Leake, Ptlopotmtshica, p. 347.) Nearly opposite

the union of the Oenus and the Eurotas, the moun­

tains of Taygetus press close upon the river, but

again almost immediately withdraw to a greater

distance than before, and the river emerges into the

Spartan plain.

2. The Vide of the Middle Eurotas. Sparta

is situated at the commencement of this vale on the

left bank of the Eurotas. Between the river and

Mt. Taygetus the plain is of considerable extent.

Its soil is particularly adapted for the growth of

olives, which are in the present day preferred to

those of Athens; and the silk of the Spartan plain

is superior to the silk of every other district of

Greece. (Mure, vol. ii. p. 224.) The soil, however,

cannot be compared with that of the rich Alcsseuiuu

