LAURENTUM. 147 LAURENTUM.

most important is the occurrence of its name (or that

of the Liurentim at least), together with those of

Ardea, Antiura, Circeii, and Tarracina, among the

allies or dependants of Rome, in the celebrated

treaty of the Romans with Carthage in b. c. 509.

(Pol. iii. 22.) From this document we may infer

that Laurentum was then still a place of some con­

sideration as a maritime town, though the proximity

of the Roman port and colony of Ostia must have

temied inach to its disadvantage. Dionysius tells us

that some of the Tarquins had retired to Laurentum

on their expulsion from Rome: and he subsequently

nctices the Lauren tines among the cities which

composed the Latin League in b. c. 496. (Dionys.

t. 54, 61.) We learn, also, from an incidental notice

in Utv, that they belonged to that confederacy, and

retained, in consequence, down to a late period the

rijht of participating in the sacrifices on the Alban

Mount. (Liv. xxxvii. 3.) It is clear, therefore, that

thoagh no longer a powerful or important city,

Lauren torn continued to retain its independent posi­

tion down to the great Latin War in n. c. 340. On

t;ut occasion the Laurentines are expressly men-

tiocted as having been the only people who took no

•bare in the war; and, in consequence, the treaty

with them which previously existed was renewed

without alteration. (Liv. viii. 11.) "From thence-

f'-rth " (adds Livy) "it is renewed always from year

to year on the 10th day of the Feriae Latinae." Thus,

tin" prjor and decayed city of Lturentum continued

4-flni to the Augustan age to retain the nominal

pfcition of an independent ally of the imperial

feme.

Xo further notice of it occurs in history during

the Human Republic. Lucan appears to reckon it as

oce of the places that had fallen into decay in con-

•qaence of the Civil Wars (vii. 394). but it is

j^-bable that it hadi long before that dwindled into a

wn small place. The existence of a town of the

name(Moppidurn Laurentum") is, however, attested

byMela,Strabot and Pliny (Mel. ii.4. § 9; Strab. v.

p. 232; I'lin. iiL 5. s. 9); and the sea-coast in its

nonitr was adorned with numerous villas, among

which that of tlie younger IMiny was conspicuous.

(Plin. Ep. ii. 17.) It is remarkable that that

ssrhor. in describing the situation of his villa and

i'j neichbourtiood, makes no allusion to Laurentum

rtwlf. though he mentions the neighbouring colony

rf Ostia, and a village or "vicus" immediately

irfjwning Tim villa: this last may probably be the

»*me which we find called in an inscription " Vicus

Augustus Laurentium." (Gruter, Inscr. p. 398,

So. 7.) Hence, it teems probable that Laurentum

iuelf bad fallen into a state of great decay: and

ths a:ust have been the cause that, shortly after, the

!'o ciimmunities of Laurentum and Laviuium were

suited into orte municipal body, which assumed the

a?;#lUtion of Lnuro-Lavininm, and the inhabitants

uut fif Lauro-Lavinates, or Laurentes Lavinates.

Sw^times, however, the united "populus" calls

"two" in inscriptions simply M Senatas pupul usque

U^n." and in one case we find mention of a

"CoJ'jnia Augusta Laurentium." (Orell. Inscr.

144; Gruter, p. 484, No. 3.) Nevertheless it is at

«.< very doubtful whether there was any fresh

ookvy established on the site of the ancient Lau­

rentum: the only one mentioned in the Liber Colo-

■sanna » that of Lauro-Lavinium, which was

tnditiUedly fixed at Lavinium {Prattea). [La-

nyicai.'J The existence of a place bearing the

Une of Laurentum, though probably a mere

village, down to the Litter ages of the Empire, is,

however, clearly proved by the Itineraries and

Tabula (/(tin. Ant. p. 301*; Tab. Petit); and it

appears from ecclesiastical documents that the locality

still retained its ancient name as late as the 8th

century (Anastas. ViL Pontif. ap. Kibby, vol. ii. p.

201). From that time all trace of it disappears, and

the site seems to have been entirely forgotten.

Laurentum seems to have, from an early period,

given name to an extensive territory, extending

from the mouth of the Tiber nearly, if not quite, to

Ardea, and forming a part of the broad littoral tract

of Latium, which is distinguished from the rest of

that country by very marked natural characteristics.

[Latium.] Hence, we find the Laurentine territory

much more frequently referred to than the city itself;

and the place where Aeneas is represented as landing

is uniformly described as " in agro Laurenti;" though

we know from Virgil that he conceived the Trojans

as arriving and first establishing themselves at the

mouth of the Tiber. But it is clear that, previous to

the foundation of Ostia, the territory of Laurentum

was considered to extend to that river. (Serv. ad

Aen. vii. 661, xi. 316.) The name of ** ager

Laurens " seems to have continued in common use

to be applied, even under the Roman Empire, to the

whole district extending as far as the river Numi-

cius, so as to include Larinium as well as Lauren­

tum. It was, like the rest of this part of Latium

near the sea-coast, a sandy tract of no natural

fertility, whence Aeneas is represented as com­

plaining that he had arrived "in agrum macer-

rinium, littorosis>iiiiumque." (Fab. Max. ap. Serv.

ad Aen. i. 3.) In the immediate neighbourhood of

Laurentum were considerable marshes, while the

tract a little further inland was covered with wood,

funning an extensive forest, known as the Silva

Laurentina. (Jul. Obseq. 24.) The existence of this

at the time of the landing of Aeneas is allnded to by-

Virgil {Aen. xi. 133, &c.). Under the Reman

Empire it was a favourite haunt of wild-boars,

which grew to a large size, but were considered by

epicures to be of inferior flavour on account of the

marshy character of the ground in which they fed.

(Virg. Aen, x. 709; Hor. Sat. ii. 4. 42; Martial,

ix. 495.) Varro also tells us that the orator Hor-

tensius had a fann or villa in the Laurentine dis­

trict, with a park stocked with wild-boars, deer, and

other game. ( Varr. H. H. iii. 13.) The existence of

extensive marshes near Laurentum is noticed also

by Virgil {Aen. x. 107) as well as by Martial

(x. 37. 5), and it is evident that even in ancient

times they rendered this tract of country unhealthy,

though it could not have suffered from malaria to the

same extent as in modern times. The villas which,

according to Pliny, lined the shore, were built close

to the sea, and were probably frequented only in

winter. At an earlier period, we are told that

Scipio and Laelius used to repair to the seaside on

the Laurentine coast, where they amused themselves

by gathering shells and pebbles. (Cic. de Or. ii. 6;

Val Max. viii. 8. § 4.) On the other hand, the

bay-trees (lauri) with which the Silva Laurentina

was said to abound were thought to have a benefi­

cial effect on the health, and on this account the

emperor Commodus was advised to retire to a villa

near Laurentum during a pestilence at Rome. (Hero-

dian. i. 12.) The name of Laurentum itself was

generally considered to be derived from the number

of these trees, though Virgil would derive it from a

particular and celebrated tree of the kind. (VicU

]. 2

