YERODUNUM. 1279 VERONA.

ritiogs it is Viredunum, Viridunnm, and Virdu-

oro. which but abbreviated form comes nearest to

'erdm, which is the capital of the Yerodunenses.

"m/isi is west of Metz, in the department of

lean, and on the Meute or Moot. There was a

lire named Fines [Fines, No. 13] between Virodu-

nm and Divodurum, which probably marked the

nit between the Yerodnnenses and the Medioma-

ici [G. L.]

VF.RODUNUM. [Yeroduskksks.]

VKROLA'MIUM and VERULA'MIUM (OJaoXd-

u>», Flu], ii. 3. § 21), the capital of the Catyench-

mi in Britannia Romana, on the rnad from Lon-

iriium to Lindum and Eboracntn. (Itin.Ant.pp.471,

76, 479.) It was probably the residence of Cassi-

ellaunus, which was taken by Caesar (B. Gall. v.

1), and subsequently became a considerable Roman

muicipiam, ( lac. Am. xiv. 33.) It is Old Ve-

ilam, near St Alban't, in Hertfordshire, which

itlfr towu rose from its ruins; and its celebrated

litwy church is said to be built in great part of

ioisn bricks. (Camden, p. 350, se<].) [T. H. D.]

YEROMANDUI (OitpopivSvti, Puil. iU. 9. § 11),

Belgic people, who in u.c. 57 were supposed

i be able to raise 10,000 fighting men (Caesar, B.

'ii. 4); unless Caesar's text means that they and

lie Vel rasses together mustered this number [Ve-

ocasses]. They joined the Nervii and the Atre-

atw in the attack on Caesar's army on the Sabis

.SuiMone). The Yeromandui attacked the eleventh

nd eighth legions, which were in Caesar's centre,

od they were driven back to the river. They are

<it mentioned again in the Commentaries.

The Yeromandui had the Ambiani and the

itrebates on the west, and the Suessinnes on the

with. On the north they were neighbours of the

fervfi. Their chief town was afterwards Augusta

trumanduorum, St. Qumtin, on the Somme, in the

rpsrlxnent of Aitne, and in the old division of

nuice named Vermandou. The name Civitas Ve-

xiunduoruin occurs in the Nrtitis of the Gallic

Winces. [Augusta Viromaxduokum.] [G.L.]

VKKOMETUM, a town of the Coritaui in Bri-

iimia Roman a, between ltatae and Margidunum.

I tut. AnL pp. 477, 479, where it is also called

ernometum.) Camden (p. 575) places it at Bur-

uugh l/ili, near WilUmgkby on the Wvld, in the S.

art of Xottingkanuhire. [T. H. D.]

VERONA (OWipwra, Ptol. iii. 1. § 31 ; BHipuy,

trab. hr. p. 206, v. p. 21,'];B<puKi)t Procop. B.G. ii.

9, iii. 3, &c; and Bepura, lb. iv. 33: Kth. Vero-

ensia: Verona), an important town in Gallia

ranspadana, seated on the river Athesis (" Verona

Llheai circumflua," Sil. It. viii. 595), and chiefly

n its VV. bank. There is some difficulty in deter-

liuiug whether Verona was a city of the Euganei

r of the Cenomani, frofh the little knowledge which

e possess of the respective boundaries of those

■-"pies, and from the confusion which prevails upon

i« subject in ancient authors. By Ptolemy (i. c),

bo does not mention the Euganei, it is ascribed to

ut< Cenomani; and Catullus (Ixvii. 34), in a passage,

owever, which has been banished by some editors as

A genuine, Brixia, which undoubtedly belonged to

lie Cenomani, it styled the mother city of Verona,

'liny, on the other hand (iii. 19. s. 23), gives Verona

artly to the Uhaeti and partly to the Euganei, and

iUabo(/. c.) attributes it to the former. Some have

r>ught a solution of this difficulty by assuming that

lie city belonged originally to the Euganei, but was

uWequcatly occupied by the Cenomani, referring to

Livy, v. 35. (Cf. Justin, xi. 5.) \Ve know little

or nothing of the early history of Verona. Under

the Roman dominion it became a colony with the

surname of Augusta, and one of the finest and most

flourishing cities in that part of Italy (Tac. 77. iii. 8;

/tin. Ant. p. 128; Strab. v. p. 213; Grut. Inter.

p. 166. 2.) The surrounding country was exceed­

ingly fruitful, producing good wine, excellent apples,

and abundance of spelt (alica, Plin. xviii. II.

s. 29, xiv. 1. s. 3, xv. 14. s. 14; Casaiod. Var.

xii. 4). The Rhaetian wine also is praised by Virgil.

(G. ii. 94; cf. Strab. iv. 206; Suet. Oct. 77.) The

situation of Verona rendered it a great thoroughfare

and the centre of several highroads (/fin. Ant. pp.

128, 174, 275, 282; /tin. Ilier. p. 558.)

Verona was celebrated in history for the battle

fought by Marius in the Campi Raudii, in its

neighbourhood,againlthe Cimbri. (Veil. Pat. ii. 12;

Florus, iii. 3.) From an inscription still extant on

one of its gates, now called the Porta oV Bor$ari,

the walls of Veroua appear to have been newly

erected in the rei^-n of the emperor Gulllenus, A. I>.

265. It was besieged by Constantine on bis march

from Gaul to Rome, and, though obstinately defended

by Ruricius Pompeianus, obliged to surrender at dis­

cretion. (Paneg. Vet. ix. 9, sqq.) It was likewise

the scene of the victory of Theodoric over Odoacei.

(Jomand. Get 57.) Theodoric made it one of bis

residences, and often held his court there: a repre­

sentation of his palace is still extant upon a seal.

(Gibbon, JMcl and Fall, vol. v. p. 22, ed. Smith.)

It was at Verona that the splendid wedding took

place between king Antharis and Theudelinda.

(Procop. B. G. iii. 5; Paul. Disc. iii. 29.) But,

more than by all these events, Verona is illustrious

as having been the birthplace of Catullus (Ovid.

Amor. iii. 15. 7; Mart. x. 103; Plin. xxxvi, 6. a. 7);

though it is exceedingly doubtful whether the re­

mains of a villa on the Ixigo di Garda, commonly

called the villa of Catullus, could really have be­

longed to him. The honour sometimes claimed for

Verona of having given birth to the architect Vi-

truvius Pollio arises from a mistaken interpretation

of the inscription on the arch of the Gavii, formerly

existing at Verona, but pulled down in the year 1805.

The inscription related to the great architect's less

celebrated namesake, Yitruvius Cerdo. (Jfeicriz. di

Verona, pt. i. p. 86.) Some are of opinion that the

elder Pliny also was born at Verona, but it is more

probable that he was a native of Comum. In the

life of him ascribed to the pen of Suetonius, he is

styled Novocomensis; and when he calls himself in

his Preface the conterraneut of Catullus, that epi­

thet by no means necessarily implies that he was the

fellow-citizen of the poet, but rather that he wus

merely his fellow-countryman, or from the same

province.

The amphitheatre at Verona is a very striking

monument of antiquity. Although not nearly so

large as the Colosseum, it is in a much better state

of preservation, owing to the pains which have al­

ways been taken to keep it in repair. It is also of

a more costly material than the Roman amphitheatre;

for whilst the latter is built of traeertino, that at

Verona is of marble, from some quarries in the neigh­

bourhood. The substructions are of Roman brick­

work. The date of its erection cannot be ascer­

tained, but it must undoubtedly have been posterior

to the time of Augustus. A great part of the ex­

ternal arcade was thrown down by an earthquake in

the year 1184. Its form is elliptical, the larger

