SAMNIUM. SAMNIUM. 895

it laictthe Hirpini was (till in the bands of the

■riupniiis, ind became the scene of the opera­

nt! d HxuiibaTa lieutenant Hanno against Sem-

ntiiu Gracchus. It was not till B. c. 209 that,

.'irmiitl hiving been finally compelled to relinquish

.< bold open Central Italy, the Hirpini (and appa-

mly tlw other revolted Samnites also) renewed

>ir ubnissioo to Borne. (Lit. xxvii. 15.)

from this lime we hear no more of the Samnites

: iwtorr till the (Treat outbreak of the Italian

inv commonly known as the Social War, B. c. 90,

vtuchtbey once more took a prominent part. They

in net indeed among the first to take up arms,

i quickly followed the example of the Picentes

ilMina; and so important an element did they

aniline of the confederation, that of the two con-

U ctkaro as the leaders of the allies, one was a

asite, Cains Papius Mutilus. (Diod. xxxvii. 2.

US.) Besides Papius, several of the most dia-

;C)M of the Italian generals, Marius Egnatius,

*a Telennus, and Trebatius, were also of Sam-  
m t#ipn; and after the fall of Corfinium, the seat

rmmmeot and head-quart ere of the allies was

aimed to the Samnite town of Boviannm, and

n Ibence subsequently to Aesernia. The Sam-

» iodnd suffered severely in the second cam-

ra of the war, being attacked by Sulla, who

Ptpios Mutilus, took Aeculaimm and Bo­

ars ey assault, and reduced the Hirpini to sub-

a-m. The other Samnites, however, stilt held out,

u irmy which liad thrown itself into Kola was

if prolong its resistance against all the efforts

ails. Hence at the end of the second year of

*ar(a.c. 69), when all the other nations of  
> lud tncreasively submitted and been admitted

w kVmaa franchise, the Samnites and Lucanians

i atlTl unsubdued, and maintained a kind of

"M warfare in their mountains, while the strong

n> of N'oia enabled them still to maintain their

aria Campania. (Veil. Pat. ii. 17; Liv. Epit.

■ tioi. xxrriL 2. p. 540: Appian, B. C. i. 53.)

ic% ttaie of things the civil war which broke

*i«een Sulla and Marius altered the nature of  
n2-,!e»& Tbe Samnites warmly espoused the

i" essse, from a natural feeling of enmity to-

I Sella, from whose arms they had recently

*i m severely; and so important was the share  
tosk in tbe struggle that ensued after the

a of Sulla to Italy (b. c. 83), that they in

3*ware imparted to what was otherwise a

aril war, the character of a national contest.

'.- nimber of them served in the army of the

yr Marios, which was defeated by Sulla at

ur-zs (Appian, B.C. i. 87); and shortly after-

i an army, composed principally of Samnites

-'irmntarift. nnder the command of C. Pontius  
teas, made a desperate attempt to relieve

by marching suddenly upon Rome. They

a»! by the army of Sulla at the very gates of

sr. aad tbe battle at the Colline gate (Nor. 1,

W), though it terminated in the complete

'T ■ f Sulla, was long remembered as one of the

M dangers to which Koine had ever been cx-

. (Vett. Pat. ii. 27; Appian, B. C. i. 93: Pint.

Is; LoesA, ii. 135—138.) Pontius Telesinna

lie field, and So.Ua displayed his implacable

t tswarda the Samnites by putting to the

: »i:hoot mercT, 80O0 prisoners who had been

ta the battle. (Appian, Lc; Strab. v. 249;

fwJl 30 ) He bad already put to death all

lean be had taken prisoners at the

battle of Sacriportus, alleging that they were the

eternal enemies of the Roman name; and he now fol­

lowed up this declaration by a systematic devastation

of their country, carried on with the express pur­

pose of extirpating the whole nation. (Strab. /. c.)

It can hardly be believed that he fully carried out

this sanguinary resolution, but we learn from Strabo

that more than a centnry afterwards the province

was still in a state of the utmost desolation,—many

of what had once been nourishing cities being

reduced to the condition of mere villages, while

others had altogether ceased to exist. (Strab. L c.)

Nor is it probable that the province ever really

recovered from this state of depression. The rheto­

rical expressions of Florus point to its being in his

day still in a state of almost complete desolation.

(Flor. i. 16. § 8.) Some attempts seem indeed to

have been made under the Roman Empire to recruit

its population with fresh colonists, especially by

Nero, who founded colonies at Saepinum, Telesia,

and Aesernia (Lib. Colon, pp. 259, 260, Ac); but

none of these attained to any great prosperity, and

the whole region seems to have been very thinly

populated and given up chiefly to pasturage, Rene-

ventum alone retained its importance, and continued

to be a flourishing city throughout the period of the

Roman Empire. In the division of Italy under Au­

gustus the land of tbe Hirpini was separated from

the rest of Samnium, and was placed in the Second

Region with Apulia and Calabria, while the rest of

the Samnites were included in the Fourth Region,

together with the Sabines, Frentani, I'eligni, Ac.

(Plin. iii. 11. s. 16, 12. s. 17.) At a later peri.d

this district was broken np, and Samnium with the

land of the Frentani constituted a separate province.

This is the arrangement which we find in the No-

titia, and it was probably introduced at an earlier

period, as the Liber Ooloniarum in one part gives

under a separate head the 11 Civitates Regionis Sam-

mi," including under that name the towns of the

Pcligni, as well as the Frentani. (A'otifc Dign. ii.

pp. 9, 10; Lib. Colon, p. 259.) In another part of

the same document, which is undoubtedly derived

from different sources, the Samnite towns are classed

under the head of Campania; but this union, if it

ever really subsisted, could have been but of very

brief duration. The "Provincia Samnii" is re­

peatedly mentioned in inscriptions of the 4th cen­

tury, and was governed by an officer styled " Prae-

ses." (Mommsen, Die Lib. CoL p. 206.) The

same appellation continued in use after the fall of

the Roman Empire, and the name of Samnium as a

separate province is found both in Cassiodorus and

Paulus Diaconus. (Cassiod. Vor. xi. 36; P. Diac.

llist. Lang. ii. 20.) The only towns in it that re­

tained any consideration in the time of the last writer

were Aufidena, Aesernia, and Beneventum. The

last of these cities became under the Lombards the

capital of an independent and powerful duchy, which

long survived the fall of the Lombard kingdom in

the N. of Italy. But in the revolutions of the middle

ages all trace of the name and ancient limits of

Samnium was lost. At the present day the name

of Siinnio is indeed given to a province of the

kingdom of Naples; but this is merely an officisl

designation, recently restored, to the district, which

had previously been called the ContaJo di Molitte.

This and the adjoining province of the PrmcijHito

Ultra comprise the greater part of tbe ancient Sam­

nium; but the modem boundaries have no reference

to the ancient divisions, and a considerable portion

