BOMA. ROMA. 785

r afculuJ in, which served as a waiting-place

r fnreicn ambassadors before they were admitted

• an au hence of the senate, was constructed on the

'jkmnal close to the curia, as before described.

o« adornment of the auggestum or oratorical plat-

ra on the comitiam with the beaks of the ships

.sen from the Antiates, forma, from the connection

tit* celebrated object witii the history of republican

n*, and the change of name which it underwent

occasion, a sort of epoch in the history of

This occurred B. c 337. (Plin.

an. II.) Th« Rostra at this time stood, as we

i» aaai, on the comitium before the curia—a

■ataaa which they continued to occupy even after

r tmm that new ones were erected by Julius Cac-

r. (Dion Cass, xliii. 49; Ascon. ad Cic. Uilim.

f Thm roatra were a templum, or place conse­

nt by angaries (" Rostrisque earum (navium)

1**truB in foro extructum, adornari plucuit:

toaqwa id templum appellatum," Liv. viii. 14;

i Cic aa I'atm. 10.) They are distinguished

Dim Cassia* (hri. 34) from those erected by

var, by Use epithet of flij^a "TuoryopiicoV, and

that of Vetera. (Suet. Aug. 100.)

from a passage in a letter of

iw'i to the emperor Antoninus, that the rostra

• nut raited to any very great height above the

a af taw comitium and forum (*' Nec tantulo

—trr. quanta rostra foro et comitio excelsiora;

antemnae aunt prora vel potius carina,"

a rp. 3). When speaking from the rostra it

Banal ta the more ancient times for the orator

m towards the comitium and curia,—a custom

selected by C. Liciniua Crassus in the consul-

i ef ij. Maxirnus Scipio and L. Mancinus, who

M towards Use fc>rnm and addressed himself to

saoaAt (Cic Am. 25); though, according to

aath (Gracch. 5), this innovation was intro-

itfC ~

(r'rom a Coin.)

of columns in honour of military

very early into use at Rome,

preceded the triumphal arch,

of this sort appears to have

[*» column ox> the forum called the Columna

it a. cornrormormtive of the victory gained by

na aerr the Latins, b. c. 338. (Liv. viii.

Lrry, indeed, in the passage cited says that

I biiibiiI waa an equestrian statue; whilst

a the other hand (xxxir. 11) states that

t a r^irmr1. which is also mentioned by

L (£a*t 58.) Xiebuhr would reconcile both

a*, by aaa tuning that the statue was on a co-

{BrnL Tol. iii. p. 145.) I'liny in anothi

that the column afforded the

01

place

means

MrS that trjC column auuium inc inrajis

jjiag the last hoar of the day ("A columna

i ad carcerern inclinato sidere supremam

(accensus)") < b°' '* veI7 difS^ult

—l the forum could

have thrown a shadow towards the career in tho

evening.

Another celebrated monument of the same kind

was the Duili&n column, also called Columna Ro-

strata, from its having the beaks of ships sculptured

upon it. It was erected in honour of C. Duilius,

who gained a great naval victory over the Cartha­

ginians, B. c. 260. According to Servius (Georg.

iii. v. 29) there were two of these columns, one on

or near the rostra, the other in front of the circus.

Pliny, indeed (xxxiv. 11), and Quintilian (In»t.

i. 7) speak of it as "in foro;" but Jorum is a

generic name, including the comitium as a part, and

therefore, as used by these authors, does not in­

validate the more precise designation of Servins.

The basis of this column was found at no great

distance from the arch of Severus (Ciacconio,

Columnar Hostratae Inscrip. Krjilicatio, p. 3, ap.

Canina, Foro Rom. p. 301, note), a fact which

confirms the position which wo have assigned to the

comitium and curia. The inscription in a frag­

mentary state is still preserved in the Palazzo uV

Conserratori.

COLCMSA DtrlUA.

On the forum in front of the rostra stood the

statue of Marsvab with uplifted hand, the emblem

of civic liberty. (Serv. ad Am. iv. 58; cf. Ilacrob.

Sat. iii. 12.) Hero was the great resort of the

cautidici, and also of the Roman courtesans. Hence

Martial (ii. 64.8): —

"Ipse potest fieri Marsya causWicus."

Horace (Sat. i. 6. 120) has converted the pointed

finger of the Satyr into a sign of scorn and derision

against an obnoxious individual:—

"obeundus Marsya, qui se

Yukum fcrre negat N'oviorum posse minoris."

It was here that Julia, the daughter of Augustus,

held her infamous orgies, in company with tho

3 K

