RUCCONIUM. RUSCIXO.

pears a very faitliful, account of the coast was given

in the Periplus of the Erythraean Sen (a work

erroneously attributed to Arrian, and probably not

anterior toNeptimius Severus anil lii.s son Caracalla)

(comp. Cooler, Claudius Ptolemy and the Nile, p.

56). During the long ware with Persia, the

Aegyptian ami Syrian population, cut off from their

ordinary communication with Persia ami India, were

supplied by the channel which the shores of the

Persian Gulf and the Bed Sea afforded; and in

the reign of Justinian this commerce was very

important. After the disturbances caused by the

wars of Heraclius and Chosroes, the Arabs or

Saracens placed uj>on the confines of Syria, Aegypt,

and Persia, had the greatest portion of the rich trade

with Aethiopia, S. Africa, and India tin-own into

their hands. From the middle of the ninth cen­

tury the Arab population of the llf.djnz maintained

commercial relations with the northern countries of

Europe and with Matlngasoir, with E, Africa,

India, and China, diffusing their language, their

coins, and the Indian system of numbers, But

from the time that the Kaliph Al*Mansur closed the

canal connecting the Ked Sea with the Nile, the im­

portant line of communication between the commerce

of Aegypt and India and the E. coast of S. Africa

has never been restored. For all that concerns the

data furnished by the ancient writers lo the geogra­

phy of the Erythraean sea the Atlas appended by

M tiller to his Geogmphi Graeci Minoret (Paris,

1655) should be consulted. He has brought to­

gether the jMisitions ot Agatharchides, Artemidorus,

Pliny, Ptolemy, and the Paeudo-Arrian, and com­

pared them with the recent surveys made by

Moresby, Carless, and others. [E. li. J.J

RUCCCNIUM. [Dacia, p. 744, b.]

RUESSIUM. [Rbvkssio]

RCFINIA'NA I'Powpivlara). Ptolemy (ii.9. § 17)

names NoeomagUS [Xoviomagis. No. 2.] and

Rufmiana as the two towns of the Nemetes, a

people on the Rhine in Gallia Belgica, If we place

ttufiniana with D'Anville and others at RujJ'ach in

Upper Alsace and in the present department «>f

Hunt iiliin, we must admit that Ptolemy has made

a great mistake, for Ruffaeh is within the territory

of the Rauraci. But D'Ahrille observes that it is

not more entraordinary to find Hufiniami misplaced

in Ptolemy than to find him place Argentoratum in

the territory of the Yungiones. [ <i. L.]

Bl.TliAE, a town of the Snmmtes on the borders

of Campania, mentioned by Virgil (Atn. vii. 739)

in a manner that would lead us to suppose it situated

in Campania, or at legist in the neighbourhood of

that country; while Silius Itahcus distinctly includes

it among the cities of the Saumites (viii. 5G8), and

Livy also mentions RufViutn (in all probability the

same place) among the towns taken from the

Sail mites at the commencement of the Second

Samnite War, B.C. 326. (Liv. viii. 25.) None of

these passages afford any clue to its position, which

cannot be determined; though it must certainly be

sought lor in the region above indicated. The sites

suggested by Romanelli (vol. ii. p. 463) and other

local topographers are mere conjectures. [K. II. B.J

RUFRIUM. [Rofrae.]

Rl Gil, RUG1 ('Poiyoi or 'P6yoi), an important

people in the north of Germany, occupying a con­

siderable part of the coast of the Baltic. (Tac

(ierm. 43.) Their country extended from the river

Viadus in the west to the Vistula in the east, and

was surrounded in the west by the Sideni, in the

south by the Helvecones, and in the fast t» tt#

Sciri, wfao were probably a Sannatian tribe. St

does not mention them, and Ptolemy (u. U. J

speaks of a tribe 'PovritcAtioi. who art pmbafcr/

same as the RogiL After their 6rst

in Tacitus, a long time passes away dnrc

they are not net iced, until they suddenW

during the wars of Attila, wb«i tbeypaws

spicnous part. (Sidon. A poll. Pamg. ad Aril

Paul. Diac. tie Gest. Rom. p. 534, «L

After the death of Attila, they appear cn ti*

side of the Danube in Austria ar.d Upj*r

and the country there inhabited by than m

called IJngia. and formed a separate ki

| (Procop. BeU. Goth. ii. 14, in. 2: Pinl Kan

Longob. h 19.) But while in this latter

no trace of their name is now left, their

preserved in their original home on the

the island of Riigcn, and in the town of

and perhaps also in R*ga and AatsnsMUi I

Latham on Tac. /. c, and Prolegam. p. uu

Strangely believes that the Rugii of Tacius"

the Gulf of Riga.) [L

Rl'GIUM ('Povytov), a town in the north

many on the coast of tlie Baltic (Ptol. il U.

the site of which seems to corre*|"wi eutflj

that of the modern Hi

though others seek it elsewhere. (Witt**,

stamen, p. 273.) [L'

RUNICATAE ('Powi*aTaj), an Alpine

tlie north-east of Vindelicia between the"

Danubius, (Ptol. ii. 18. § I.) In ike

of the Alpine trophy quoted by Pliny (ui. 44)

are called Kucinates. [L"

RURA (Ruhr), a river of Western Oe

which Mows into the Rhine from the emstssaf^

town of Duisburg. (Geopr. Raw iv. 24 ) P

RURADA (Kuradensis Resp?). a place in Heffl|

Baetica, the name of which appears crd*!

coins, the present Rus near B*uza. (Ftcrel*

Sagr. vii. p. 98.) [T. EBB

RUSADIR (Plin. v. 1; 'Pvatra&upor. lloi'

§ 7; Russader, I tin. Ant.), a t o\> mia of ilaall

situated near Metagonites Prom., vhieb ^

sometimes to have been called frum the tovsal

(Ptol. iw 1. § 12). It is represented by lhsa

dero^of Mclilla, or Spanish penal f.-rtmavea]

bight formed between C. Tret Forms asi

Mhi in. (XnV

KUSAZUS. [Maiketasia, p. 29$, b.]

RTSCINU ('pQvtrKir6v, 'Pov-tkivJh ),* ary

Volcae Tectosages in Gallia Xarboneiuis. (P

10. § 9.) When Hannibal entered Gaifia t

Pyrenees, he came to Illtberu (Ehe), ad

marched past Ruscino(Liv. xxi. 24). Ruesst

on a river of the same name (Ptol. Strab.):

was a lake near Buscino, and a swami?

little above the sea full of salt aoJ

mullets (KWrptts^ which are doi: not;

digs down two or thi^ee feet, and drive*

into the muddy water, he may spear the &

is of considerable size: and it feeds on the

the eels." (Strab. iw p. 182.) Polynias

10, ed. Bekker) has the >ame aboui the

the fish, which, however, he says, feed oc

agrastis. (Athen. viii. p. 332.) The

which was divided by the Ru*rino is the

Littus of Avienus (Or. Mar. ». 565):—

"post Pyreraeuoi jcjnsaa,

Jacent arenac littoris Cynetic-,

Kiistiue

