ROMA. 7C7

'■' • CGtu Capitolinus is adduced, which ran to

r Waters height, and most hare led directly to

r tropic, whence it derived its name. Bnt this

a eunplete begging of the question, and the

»us men probably derived its name from the

L If the dinectiun of the clivus, howerer, proves

rr*h.ag at ail—and we are not disposed to lay

mji sueai upon it—it rather proves the reverse

fWicrs ease. The clirns was a continuation

thr Sam Via, by which, as we shall have occa-

m to ih«w when treating of that road, the augurs

• rnded from the Are after taking the auguries,

d by which they carried up their new year's

•roc* to king Tatius, who lived upon the Are:

J hence in sacerdotal language the clivus itself

■ called Sacra Via. (Varro, /../.. v. § 47, Mull.;

s;a», a, 190, id.). Lastly, " the confined height

JewraV wocld not have afforded sufficient room

'the »parinos temple of Jupiter, the Area Capi­

ta, where meetings of the people were held, and

raw sb* time be able to display so many other

r *•» aad monuments." There is some degree of

rka tail observation, so far at least as the Area

..•-■Tea is concerned. But when we come to

rrfW the temple of Jupiter Capitolinus, an ac-

pataDe* with which is necessary to the complete

w-itaading of the present question, though

:iar km chosen to omit it, "as lying out uf the

■ of his book" (p 396), we shall endeavour to

• how this objection may be obviated. Mean-

>. Baring now discussed all Becker's arguments

• :r at the SW. summit as the site of the

it will be more convenient shortly

whole question, and to adduce some

have led us to a directly contrary con-

» «- la doing; this we do not presume to think,

s Becker, that we have "completely decided"

,mtaon- It is one, indeed, that will not admit

; >- tc demonstration; but we venture to hope

t tie balance of probability may be shown to

! w-bate very considerably in favour of the XK.

V greater part of Becker's arguments, as we

I that we hare shown, prove nothing at all,

r the remainder, or those which prove Horne­

ts :jt I < tamed against him. We must claim

at m !■» proof drawn from the storm of the

*. by the Vltellians, as described by Tacitus,  
aB as that derived from Mons Tarpeius being

aaaae ut tin SW. height, and that from the

wit direction of the Clivus Capitolinus. Ano-

wiumrct in favonr of the NK. height may be

■ rjara Ljvy's account of the trial of Maidius

emsim, to which we have already adverted

: treating of the Porta Klumentana [supra,

,|1 gad need Bat here repeat. To these we

a»i a few more drawn from probability.

east dwelt on the Are, where the temple of

V^nata afterwards stood. (Pint. Rom. 20;

■a, l 3 I ) "Thia," says Becker (p. 388), " is

m&t ft .trace'", and always retained its name

afWr the Capitol was built, since certain

t irVwna were attached to the place and ap-

{s, i, here alluding to the Are being the

■raians of which Feat us says: "Auguracu-

■jynJaLast aatiqni qnam nos arcem dicimus,

-» aa^area poblice aaspicarentur" (p. 18,  
■ nan tarn arcem quam in

ngTiraculum "). The templum,

tKtl fruin the. Are, from which the city

defined by a peculiar and

appropriate form of words, which is given by Varro,

(/../,. vii. § 8, MBU.) It was bounded on the left

hand and on the right by a distant tree ; the tract

between was the temptvm or rescuwi (country region)

in which the omens were observed. The augur w ho

inaugurated Numa led him to the Are, seated him

on a stcne, with his face turned towards the South,

and sat down on his left hand, capite velato, and

with his lituus. Then, looking forwards over the

city and country — " prospectu in nrbem agrumque

capto"— he marked out the temple from east to

west, and determined in his mind the sign (signum)

to be observed as far as ever his eyes could reach:

"quo longissime eonspectum oculi ferebant." (Liv.

i. 18; cf. Cic. it Off. iii. 16.) The great extent of

the prospect required may lie inferred from an anec­

dote related by Valerius Maxim us (viii. 2. § 1),

where the augurs are represented as ordering Clau­

dius Centumalus to lower his lofty dwelling on the

Caelian, because it interfered with their view from

the Are,—a passage, by the way, which shows

that the anguries were taken from the Are till

at all events a late period of the Republic. Now,

supposing with Becker, that the Are was on the

NE. summit, what sort of prospect would the

augurs have had? It is evident that a large portion

of their view would have been intercepted by the

huge temple of Jupiter Capitolinus. The SW.

summit is the only portion of the hill which, in the

words of Livy, would afford a noble prospect, " in

urbem agrumque." It was doubtless this point to

which the augur conducted Nnma, and which re­

mained ever afterwards the place appointed for taking

the auguries. Preller is of opinion that Augustus

removed their, to a place called the Auguratorium

on the Palatine. (Philologut, i. p. 92.) But the

situation laid down for that building scarcely answers

to our ideas of a place adapted for taking the au­

guries, and it seems more probable that it was merely

a place of assembly for the college of augurs.

Another argument that has licen adduced in

favour of the SW. summit being the Are, is drawn

from its proximity to the river, and from its rocky

and precipitous nature, which made it proper fur a

citadel. But on this we are not inclined to lay any

great stress.

Other arguments in favour of the Italian view

may be drawn from the nature of the temple

itself; but in order to understand them it will

first be necessary to give a description of the

building. The most complete account of the Tem-

pLt'u Jovis CAriTousi is that given by Diony-

sius (iv. 61), from which we learn that it stood upon

a high basis or platform, 8 plethra, or 800 Greek

feet square, which is nearly the same in English

measure. This would give about 200 feet for each

side of the temple, for the length exceeded the

breadth only by about 15 feet. These are the di­

mensions of the original construction ; and when it

was burnt down a generation befuro the time of

Dionysius,— that is, as we learn from Tacitus (£fut.

iii. 72), in the consulship of L. Scipio and Norbanus

(n. c. 83),—it was rebuilt upon the same foundation.

The materials employed in the second construction

were, however, of a much richer description than those

of the first. The front of the temple, icAicA faced the

touth, had a portico consisting of three rows of columns,

whilst on the flanks it had only two rows : and aa

the back front is not said to have had any portico, we

may conclude that there was nothing on this side

but a plain wall. The interior contained three cells

