40 IMAUS. ILYATES.

iv. G54.) Ilva was celebrated in ancient times, as

it still is at the present day, for its iron mines;

these were probably worked from a very early period

by the Tyrrhenians of the opposite coast, and were

already noticed by Hecatacus, who called the island

Aidd\ij: indeed, its Greek name was generally re­

garded as derived from the smoke (al#aA?j) of the

numerous furnaces employed in smelting the iron.

(Diod. v. 13; Steph. Ii. *. v.) In the time of Strabo,

however, the iron ore was no longer smelted in the

island itself, the want of fuel compelling the inha­

bitants (as it does at the present day) to transport

the ore to the opposite mainland, where it was

smelted and wrought so as to be fitted for com­

mercial purposes. The unfailing abundance of the

ore (alluded to by Virgil in the line

"Insula inexhaustis Chalybum generosa metal lis")

led to the notion that it grew again as fast as it

was extracted from the mines. It had also the

advantige of being extracted with great facility, as

it is not sunk deep beneath the earth, but forms

a hill or mountain mass of solid ore. (Strab. I. c;

Diod. Lc.; Virg. A en. x. 174; Plin. iii. 6. s. 12,

xxxiv. 14. s. 41; Pseud. Ari^t. de Mirab.95; Rutil.

IUn. i. 351—356; Sil. Iul. viii. 616.) The mines,

which are still extensively worked, are situated at a

place called Rio, near the E. coast of the island;

they exhibit in many cases unequivocal evidence of

the ancient workings.

The only mention of Ilva that occurs in history

is in ii. c. 453, when we learn from Diodorus that

it was ravaged by a Syracusan fleet under Phayllus,

in revenge for the piratical ex j ted it ions of the Tyr­

rhenians. Phayllus having effected but little, a

second fleet was sent under Apclles, who is said to

have made himself master of the island; but it

certainly did not remain subject to Syracuse. (Diod.

xi. 88.) The name is again incidentally mentioned

by Livy (xxx. 39) during the expedition of the

consul Tib. Claudius to Corsica and Sardinia.

Ilva has the advantage of several excellent ports,

of which that on the N. side of the island, now

called Porto ferraio, was known in ancient times

as the Pokti.'s Anoous ('Apy&os Atui}v), from the

circumstance that the Argonauts were believed to

have touched there on their return. voyage, while

sailing in quest of Circe. (Strab. v. p. 224; Diod.

iv. 56; Apollon. It hod. iv. 658.) Considerable ruins

of buildings of Koman date are visible at a place

called Le Grotte, near Porto Ferrau), and others

are found near Capo Cashllo, at the XE. extremity

of the island. The quarries of granite near S. Ptero,

in the SW. part of Elba, appears also to have been

extensively worked by the Romans, though no notice

of them is found in any ancient writer; but nume­

rous columns, basins for fountains, and other archi­

tectural ornaments, still remain, either wholly or in

part hewn out of the adjacent quarry. (Hoare,

Class. Tour, vol. i. pp. 23—29). [E. H. It. J

ILVATES, a Ligurian trihe, whose name is

found only in Livy. He mentions them first as

taking up .inns in B. c. 200, in concert with the

Gaulish tribes of the Insubres and Cenomani, to de­

stroy the Roman colonies of Placentia and Cremona.

They are again noticed three years later as being

still in arms, after the submission of their Transpa-

dane allies; but in the course of that years cam­

paign (n.<\ 197) they were reduced by the consul

Q. Minucius, and their name does not again appear

in history. (Liv. xxx. 10, xxxi. 29, 30.) From

the circumstances here related, it is clear that they

dwelt on the N. slopes of the Apennines, towarjn

the plains of the Padus, and apparently not very

far from Clastidium (Casteggio); but we cannot de­

termine with certainty either the position or extent of

their territory. Their name, like those of most of the

Ligurian tribes mentioned by Livy, had disappeared

in the Augustan age, and is not found in any of the

geographers. [Liockia.J Walckenaer, however,

supjioses the Elkates over whom the consul M.

r'ulvius Nobilior celebrated a triumph in n. v. 159

(Fast. Capit. op. Grutcr, p. 297). and who are in

all probability the same [teople with the Veleiates of

Pliny [Vm.kia], to be identical also with the 11-

vatesofLivy; but this cannot be assumed without

further proof. (Walckenaer, Gtogr. ihs Untiles,

vol. i. p. 154.) [E. H. B.]

IMACHARA ('Imxdpa or 'H^XW Ptol.: Elk.

Iinac haren>is, Cic.; Iniacaren^is, Plin.), a city of

Sicily, the name of which does not appear in history,

but which is repeatedly mentioned by Cicero among

the municipal towns of tho island. There is great

discrepancy in regard to the form of the name, which

is written in many MSS. " Macarensis " or " M.icha-

reusis;"' and the same uncertainty is found in those

of Pliny, who also notices the town am >ng those of

the interior of Sicily. (Cic. IVrr. iii. 18, 42. v. 7:

Zumpt, od l»c; Plin. iii. 8. s. 14; Siilig, ad he.)

From the manner in which it is spoken of by Cicero,

it would seem to have been a town of some con­

sideration, with a territory fertile in com. That

writer associates it with Herbita, Assorus, Agyriuin,

and other towns of the interior, in a maimer that

would lead us to suppose it situated in the same

region of Sicily; and this inference is confirmed by

Ptolemy, who places Hemichara or Himiehara (evi­

dently the same place) in the NE. of Sicily, between

Capitium and Centuripa. (Ptol. iii. 4. § 12.) Hence

Cluverios conjectures that it may have occupied the

site of Trai/ia, but this is wholly uncertain. Kazclk)

and other Sicilian writers have supposed the ruins of

an ancient city, which are still visible on the coa&t

about 9 miles N. of Cape Pachynum, near the Porto

Vindicari, to be those of [inachara; but though the

name of Macaresa, still borne by an adjoining head­

land, gives some col >ur to this opinion, it is wholly

opposed to the data furnished us by ancient authors,

who all agree in placing Imachara in the interior of

the island. The ruins in question, which indicate

the site of a considerable town, are regarded by Clo­

ven us (but equally without authority) as tho&e of

Ichana. (Cluver. Sicil. p. 356; Kazell. de Rtb.Sic.

iv. 2, p. 217; Amico. A of. ad Fazell. pp.417, 447;

Hoare's Classical Tour, vol. ii. p. 301.) [E. II. 15.]

IMATS. the great mountain chain, which, ac­

cording to the ancients, divided Northern Asia into

"Scythia intra Imaum" and ''Scythia extra

Imaum." Tin's word (to *\fxaov &post Strab. xv.

p. 689: Ptol. vi. 13. § 1; t£i '\aalov vpos. >trah.

ii. p. 129; & "luaos, Agathem. ii. 9: all lmugh

all the MSS. of Strabo (xi. p. 516) have lsanms

('Iaa.uos) in the passage describing the expedi­

tion of the Graeco-Bactrian king Menander, }'ct

there can be no doubt but that the text is corrupt,

and the word I ma US should be substituted), cun-

nected with the Sanscrit himavat, " snowy" (comp.

Plin. vi. 17; B"hlen, das Atie Ittdtt n, vid. i. p. 11;

Las>en, hid. Alt. vol. i. p. 17), is one of those mauy

significative expressions which have been used fur

mountain masses upon every zone of the earth's sur­

face (for instance, Mont Blanc, in Savoy, Sierra

