XIMENAE. 101 UNITES ROMAXI.

approach (Pol. i. 42), would now effectually prevent

it from being used as a port for large vessels.

(Smyth, /. c. pp. 233, 234.)

It is a strung proof of the extent to which Greek

culture and civilisation were diffused throughout

Sicily, that, though wc have no account of Lily-

hiearn being at any time in possession of the Greeks,

but, on the contrary, we know positively that it was

founded by the Carthaginians, and continued in

their hands till it passed under the dominion of

Rwne. yet the coins of Lilybaeum are exclusively

Crnwk; and we learn from Cicero that it was pos­

sible fur a man to acquire a knowledge of the Greek

lirtTuage and literature in that city (Cic. in Caer.U.

12). [E.H.B.]

COIX OF ULY5AEUM.

Ll'MEXAE (\tft4vai), also called Limsopous

(.\mriy tto\is), a place in the north of Pisidia,

*bieh is mentioned only by ecclesiastical writers  
(HwroeL p. 672; Conctl. Chalced. p. 670; Con­

di Const iii. p. 676, where it is called Aufi-

kwi). The ancient ruins of Galaudos, on the east

of the lake of Eyerdir, are believed to belong to

Limenae. (Arundell, Dtscov. in Asia Minor, vol. i.

p. 326; Franz, Fun/ InscJtrifl, p. 35.) [L. S.]

LIME'N'IA (Aiftcrfa), a town of Cyprus, which

Strabj (x. p. 63.'J) places S. of Soli. It appears from

pmne ecclesiastical documents cited by Wesseling

(ap, Bierocl.) to have been 4 M. P. from Soli. Now

Lirnan. (Engel, Kypros, vol. i. p. 77.) [E. H. B.]

U'MIA, river and town. [Gallaecia.]

Ll'MlCI. [Gallakcia.]

LIMIG ANTES. The ordinary account of the

Limigantes is as follows. In a. d. 334 — 337, the

Sinnauans, in alliance with the Vandals under

Viiunur, provoke the indignation of Constantine by

taeir inroads on the Empire. He leaves them to the

s**nrd of Geberic the Gothic king. Reduced and

bumbl-d by him, they resort to the expedient of

tnniag their slaves. These rebel against their

roasters, whom they either reduce or expel. Of

ti** that leave their country, some take arms

omler the Gothic king, others retreat to the parts

Uyond the Carpathians; a third portion seeks the

KfTice of Rune, and is established, to the number of

300,1)00, in different parts of Pannonia, Thrace,

Macedonia, and Italy (Gibbon, c xviii. with note).

Xeass (Die t)eutschen, ffc, s. v. Sarmatoe) holds

thii others were transplanted to the Rhine, believing

uuti passage in Ausoruus applies to them. (Ad Mo-

*it 1. 5—8.) This may or may not be the case. The  
fcwre important elements of the account are, that the

•k** who were thus annex! and thus rebelled, are

r*i»i Umignntrs—this being the name they take in

Gibbon, Their scene of action was the parts about

the pwent town of Peterwaradein, on the north hank

f'f the Danulte, nearly opposite the Servian frontier,

&ni in the district between the Theiss and the great

l*ftl of the Danube. Here lay the tract of the Sar-

ma^f, ami Jazyjes Metanastae, a tract which never

■a* Hunan, a tract which lay as a March or Boun­

dary, with Pannonia on one side and Dacia on the

other, but belonging to neither. Observe the words

in Italics.

In his note, Gibbon draws special attention to

"the broken and imperfect manner" in which the

*' Gothic and Sarmatian wars are related." Should  
this remark stimulate the inquiries of the histo­

rian, he may observe that the name Limit/antes is

not found in the authority nearest the time, and of

the most importance in the way of evidence, viz.

Ammianus Marcellinus. Armnianus speaks only of

servt and domini; — " Sarmatao Uberi ad discretio-

nem seroorum rebelHum appellati (xxix. 6. 15)."

On the other hand, it is only in a work of such

inferior authority (at least, for an event a.d. 337)

as the Chronicle of Jerome (Chrontcon Ifieronymi)

that the name Limigans is found; the same work

stating that the masters were called Arcaragantes.

To say nothing about the extent to which tho

story has a suspicious similarity to more than one

older account of the expulsion of the masters by the

slaves of the same sort, the utter absence of either

name in any other writer is remarkable. So is their

semi-Latin form.

Can the whole account of the slave insurrection

be problematical — based upon a confusion of names

which will be shown to be highly probable? Let us

hear in mind the locality of these Limigantes, and

the language of those parts in contact with it which

belonged to Rome. The locality itself was a Limes

(eminently so), and the contiguous tongue was a

Lingua Rust tea in which such a form as Limigantes

would be evolved. It is believed to be the Latin

name of the Sarmatae and Jazyges of what may be

called the Daco-Pannonian March.

The account of the Servile War is susceptible of a

similar explanation. Ammianus is nearly the last of

the authors who uses the name Sarmatae, which

will, ere long, be replaced, to a great extent, by the

name Serv- (2«p§-). Early and late, this name has

always suggested the idea of the Latin Servus,—just

as its partial equivalent Slav- does of the English

Slave. It is submitted that these Servi of Am­

mianus (Limiyantes of the Chronicle) are the

Servians {Servi) of the March (Limes), now begin­

ning to be called by the name by which they desig­

nated themselves rather than by the name by which

they were designated by their neighbours. [R. G. L ]

Ll'MITES ROMA'NI, sometimes simply Limes

or Limites, is the name generally applied to the long

line of fortifications constructed by the Romans as a

protection of their empire, or more directly of the

Decumates agri, against the invasions of the Ger­

mans. It extended along the Danube and the Rhine,

and consisted of forts, ramparts, walls, and palisades.

The course of these fortifications, which were first

commenced by Drusus and Tiberius, can still bo

traced with tolerable accuracy, as very considerable

portions still exist in a good state of preservation.

Its whole length was about 350 English miles, be­

tween Cologne and Ratisbon. It begins on the

Danube, about 15 miles to the south-west of Ratis­

bon, whence it proceeds in a north-western direc­

tion under the name given to it in the middle ages

of *' the Devil's Wall " (Teufeismauer), or Pfahlrain.

For a distance of about 60 miles it was a real stone

wall, which is still in a tolerable state of preserva­

tion, and in some places still rises 4 or 5 feet above

the ground; and at intervals of little more than a

mile, remnants of round towers are visible. This

wall terminates at Pj'ahlhdm in Wiirtemberg. From

