912 SARDINIA. SARDINIA.

about 18 miles from its mouth; Usellts, about

15 miles to the S. of tlie preceding; Valentia, to

the SK. of Usellis: andGuRULls Vetus and Nova,

both of which were situated between the rivers

Thyrsus and Teinus.

Of the minor towns mentioned by Ptolemy or the

Itineraries, the following may be noticed: 1. On the

W, coast, were Tilium (Ptol.), which must have

been near the Capo Negretto: Osaea or Hosaea (Id.)

at FtumentnrfjiU) a few miles \V. of Neapolis; and

Othoca {/tin. Ant.) apparently tho modern Oristano,

near the mouth of the river Thyrsus. 2. On the S.

coast, Pnpulum (Ptol.) may probably be placed at

Massacara, a few miles N. of Sulci; Bitia (Ptol.)

at S. Isidoro di Teulada; and Tegula {/tin. Ant.)

at the Capo di Teulada, the extreme S. point of the

island. 3. On the E. coast, Feronia (Ptol.) must

have been at or near Posada, 25 miles S. of Olbia,

and is apparently the same place called in the Itin­

eraries Portus Lugudonis. The other small places

mentioned in the same Itinerary were probably mere

stations or villages, 4. On the N. coast, besides the

two considerable towns of Tibula and Tunis Liby-

Bonis. Ptolemy places two towns, which he calls

Juliola (probably the sime with the Viniola of the

Itinerary, still tailed Torre Vigiwla) and Plubium,

which may probably be fixed at Casttl Sardo. The

small towns of the interior are for the most part

very uncertain, the positions given by Ptolemy, as

well as the distances in the Itineraries, varying so

much as to afford us in reality but little assistance;

and of the names given by Ptolemy, Krycinum,

Heraeum, Macopsisa, Saralapis or Sarala, and Lesa,

not one is mentioned in the Itineraries. The Aquae

Lesitanae (Ptol.) are probably the Acqui di Bene-

tutti in the upper valley of the Thyrsus: the Aquae

Hypsitanae are those of Fordungianm^ and the

Aquae Neapolitanae the Bagni di Sardara. There

remain considerable ruins of a Roman town at a

place called Castro on the road from Tcrranova

(Olbia) to OrUtano. These are supposed to mark

the site of a plate called in the Itineraries Lugu-

donec, probably a corruption of Lugudo or Lugudonis.

In the S\V. portion of the island, also, between

Neapolis and Sulci, are considerable Roman remains

at a place called Antas, probably the Metalla of the

Itineraries, {/tin. Ant. p. 84.).

The Itineraries give several lines of road through

the island of Sardinia, (Ilin. Ant. pp. 78—85.) One

of these proceeded from Tibula, at the N. extremity of

the island, which was the usual place of landing from

Corsica, along the whole length of the E. coast to Ca­

ralis. It did not accurately follow the line of coast,

though it seldom departed far from it, but struck some­

what inland from Tibula to Olbia, and from thence

with someexceptions followed the line of coast. A more

circuitotis, but probably more frequented, route was

that which led from Tibula to Tunis Libysonis,and

thence along the W. coast of the island by Btjsa,

Comus, mid Tharros to Othoca ( Orutano), from

which one branch led direct across the island through

the plain of the Campidano to Caralis, while another

followed nearly the line of the coast by Neapolis to

Sulci, and from thence round the southern extremity

of the island by Tegula and Nora to Caralis. Besides

these, two other cross lines of road through the

interior are given: the one from Olbia to Caralis

direct, through the mountain country of the interior,

and the other crossing the same wild tract from

Olbia direct to Othoca. Very few of the stations

on these lines of road can be identified, and the

names themselves are otherwise vhtf.y cuan

The reader will find them fully discaswi uA

amined by De la Marmora (l*(iy. «" Sarim

vol. ii. pp. 418—457), who has thrown

on this obscure subject: but the resell* vaA

remain in many cases uncertain.

We learn from the geographers tint omt

the Roman Empire several of the wiU Into 4 T

interior of the island retained their distiocCfJ ~

pel la t ions; but these are very variously* rn*^

were probably subject to much fluctnatk*. t

Strabo gives the names of four mountain triba.}

he calls Pa rati, Sossinati, Balari and Acoiittt a -

v. p. 225), all of which, with the excepUoti

Balari, are otherwise entirely unknown. I -

mentions only three, the Ilien^es, BaUri, toil -'*■-

which he calls "celeberrimi in ea fefnkj

(PIin, iii. 12. s. 17), and which are is fit

three well known names. The existence 4

Ilienses under the Empire U aUo distinctly m

by Pausanias (x. 17. § 7): yet neither titer:

nor that of the Balari is noticed by PuJgdt, 6

he gives those of no less than eichieea xm »-

existing in his time. These are. beginning 1 .

N. point of the island and proceeding frcm XJ

"the Tibulatii and Corei, the CoracenseK;4l

Carenses and Cunusitanae; next to these .

tani and Luquidonenses; then the .

after them the Cornenses (called »l**o ,

then the Ruacenses; next to whom follow!

tani and Corpicenses; after them the Sa

Siculenses; next to these the Neaputiuni i

lentini, and furthest to the S. the f

Nontaxa." (Ptol. iii. 3. § 6). Of these i

are otherwise well known [see above, pp.!

the four last names, as well as the T3

Cornenses, are evidently derived from thi i

towns, and are probably the inhabitants W i

municipally dependent upon them, ratbo't

in the proper sense of the term. The i

are wholly unknown. After the fill of the 1

Empire we find for the first time the nam* )

baricini (BapSaptKLV0it Procop. S. V. ii- 13)1

to the mountaineers of the interior. Thi* app4

which appears to be merely a corruption of " m

vicini," was retained throughout tie suiiit

and is still preserved in the name of

given to the wild mountain trait whkfc

from the neighbourhood of CngUnri ta**r*

sources of the Tirso. These moun'-airieen *^

converted to Christianity till the close of C*)

century, and even at the pre-sent day retail

curious traces of paganism in their

superstitious usages. (De la. Marmora. roL

IV. Natural Prodi-ctkot, ktc

The chief produce of Sardinia in aedfltf t

was, as already mentioned, its com. i

duced in large quantities for exportatioa ms

the period of the Roman conquest- lu s

tracts were also well adapted for pastorac.

native tribes subsisted matnlv on the

flocks and herds (Diod. v. 15), whifc t3s»J **

themselves with the skins, w hence t

times called M pclliti Sardi.'* The

sessed mines both of silver and iron. <tf \

first are said to have been considerable. (S->

§ 4.) They were undoubtedly wvrkrd by i>

mans, as we learn from existing traces asi 3

the name of Metalla given lo a pUt-* in

of the island, between Neapou^ and SUa. (•

