rAXDION.

sag PANDOVI IiEGKj.

ru alad a Ute Tyrrhenian sea, l»int off the

iai/•/" 'i. *ari» opposite to the month of the

i-. (Plin. iii. 6. a. 12; Strab. ii. p. 123;

hk, a. 7. § 18; PtoL iii. 1. § 79.) Slrabo mvs

i » 230 stadia from the mainland, which is just

Ml tin mill (v. p. 233). He oils it a small

ibsi. but well peopled. It was not unfrequently

. « ■(, i» well as the neighbouring Pontia, as

\m i stiasm& for state prisoners or political

; ti.e-c may be mentioned Julia, the

■vita ; Augustus, Agrippina, the widow of

buaita, ud Octatia, the first wife of Nero, of

.-. tit two last were put to death in the island.

h im. i. 53, xir. 63; Suet. Tib. 53.) Pan-

■n a ibnt midway between Pontia (Ponza)

a . iria (ltdaa); it is of volcanic origin, like

•jnsfWtlx Ami IiUmtU, to which it is some-

is t auieied as belonging; and dues not exceed

■an d length. Yarro notices it as frequented,

i< ■ ■ i«nnti<; islands of Pontia and Palmaria,

i« 11 i quits and tartle-doTea in their annual

(Vsrr. «. R. iii. 5. § 7.) [E. H. B.]

rAMO.Y, ■ headland in the south-west of

ta. fj.«te the island of Syme. (Pomp. Mela,

i' Pan; (r. 29) mentions on the same spot a

U uwi /j- ... a. or according to another read-

| hrrtaj. [L. S.]

>■•">!A (nuiaeria: £tA- no»Joo-7wj). 1.

■7 a finitiiinn, sitnaUd near the frontiers of

■a Mnln describes it as a little abort Con-

•* lilt precise sense of which expression is far

B dtsr (Sunb. ri. p. 256); but Livy calls it

te-j.-fttnn Locanis ac Uruttiis finibus." (Lir.

p*) Acoarding to Strabo it was originally an

tea: tm-Q, and was even, at one time, the

p«f tat Oeoutrian kings (Strah. /. c); but it

■ to awe eertainly received a Greek colony, as

P> "'pntaiy enumerates it among the Greek

!•< lass part of Italy, and Scymnus Chius,

IP perhaps less distinctly, asserts the same

• i=wri- p. 4. § 12; Scymn. Ch. 326.) Jt

'p '± ij s colony of Crotona; though the state­

s' « Ltaebitu, who represents it as founded in

* ' .Tear with Metapontum, would lead us to  
9 x ts as independent and separate colony.

Ik ana. Cirva. p. 99.) But the date assi gned

w> «i a, c 774 seems certainly inadmissible,

wrca.] But whether originally an in-

tsulsMnt or not, it must have been a

7 <t Crotona during the period of great-

city, and hence we never find its name

una: the cities of Magna Grace ia. Its

celebrity arises from its being the

sav akick Alexander, king of Epirus, was

IbsBkwah the Bruttians, B. c. 326. That

K tern irarned by an oracle to avoid

•* at mAmtuti this as referring to the

« uut tvat in Thesprutia, on the banks of

sarin, sad vu ignorant of the existence of

■ its i r.ver of the same names in Italy.

•• e- 256; Lit. viii. 24 ; Justin, xii. 2;

11. s. 15.) The name of I'andosia is again

wi Livy (nix. 38) in the Second Punic

uw Brattian towns retaken by the

-^precras, in n. c 204; and it is there  
with Conaentia, as opposed to the

■»« civitatea." It was therefore at

» Will l aha of some consequence; and

P" aaary that it still existed in his

t-«.). but we find no subsequent trace

■> freit difficulty in determining its

position. It is described as a strong fortress, situ­

ated on a hill, which had three peaks, whence it was

called in the oracle narrWt'a rputdkuvoi (Strab,

I. c.) In addition to the vague statements of

Strabo and Livy above cited, it is enumerated by

Scymnus Chius between Crotona and Thurii. But

it was clearly an inland town, and must probably

have stood in the mountains between Consentia and

Thurii, though its exact site cannot be determined,

and those assigned by local topographers are purely

conjectural. The proximity of the river Achenn

affords us no assistance, as this was evidently an

inconsiderable stream, the name of which is not

mentioned on any other occasion, and which, there­

fore, cannot be identified.

Much confusion has arisen between the P.niiti

Pandosia and a town of the same name in Lucania

(No. 2,); and some writers have even considered

this last as the place where Alexander perished.

(Romanelli, vol. i. pp. 261—263). It is true that

Theopumpus (ap. Plin. iii. 11. s. 15), in speaking

of that event, described Pandosia as a city of the

Lucanians, but this is a very natural error, as it

was, in fact, near the boundaries of the two nations

(Lir. viii. 24), and the passages of Livy (xxix. 38)

and Strabo can leave no doubt that it was really

situated in the land of the Bruttians.

2. A town of Lucania, situated near Heraclea.

It lias often been confounded with the preceding;

but the distinct existence of a Lucanian town of tiie

name is clearly established by two authorities. Plu­

tarch describes Pyrrhus as encamping in the plain

between Pandosia and Heraclea, with the river Siris

in front of him (Plut. Pyrrh. 16); and the cele­

brated Tabulae Heracleenscs repeatedly refer to tins

existence of a town of the name in the immediate

neighbourhood of Heraclea. (Mazocchi, Tab. //<-

racl. p. 104.) From these notices we may infer

that it was situated at a very short distance from

Heraclea, but apparently further inland; and its site

has been fixed with some probability at a spot culled

Sta Maria of Anghma, about 7 miles from the sen,

and 4 from Heraclea. Anglona was an episcopal

see down to a late period of the middle ages, but is

now wholly deserted. (Mazocchi, 1 c. pp. 104, 105;

Komanelli, vol. i. p. 265.) [E. II. B.]

PANDO'SIA (n<x/4Wia: Elk. riaxoWieiij). an

ancient colony of Elis (Dem. llalonne*. p. 84, Keiske),

and a town of the Cassopaei in the district of Thes-

protia in Epirus, situated upon the river Acheron.

It is probably represented by the rocky height of

Kastri, on the summit of which are the walls of an

acropolis, while those of the city descend the slopes

on either side. (Strab. vii. p. 324; Liv. viii. 24;

Justin, xii. 2; Plin. iv. 1 ; Steph. B. ». r. j Leake,

Xorthern Greece, vol. iv. p. 55.)

COIN OF PANDOSIA.

PAXDOVI REGI0 (IliU-aaHiu x»Va. Ptol- »»•

1. § 11), a district at the southern extremity of the

Peninsula of Ilindostan. The name is in some

editions tlavStovot. but there is every probability

that the above (which was suggested by Erasmus)

is the true reading. There is another district of the

same name which is placed by Ptolemy in the Pan­

