MYT1LENE.

MYTISTEATUS. 391

T'jtL-A |»ss3.'e in which the history of Mytileiic

an pnoiaeiitly into view is in the struggle be-

rvn i tbc Aeoliana lod Athenians for Sigeum (b.c

M), it the SW. comer of Asia Minor. The place

aa tit Dine art both rrmarkableras illustrating the

r vita which Mytilene was exercising its

political power. We see it already

'ins on the mainland,

i: iu in uus ctunict, too, that Pittaeus, the sage

m ftwrmr of Mytilene, acted so noble a part, and

tat Alone, her great poet, lust his shield. The

mt>* oc these two names reminds us that this

oca </ rivalry witli Athens coincides with the

i4»jy iaienul contests of the nobles and commons

a Urolfoe. For the history and results of this

tavde, see the lives of Aix akt s, Pittacus, and

iinnu. k the Did. of Biography.

h say be diificult to disentangle the history of

k<aijiarain hum that of the Acoliaus in pe­

arl, siring the period uf the Persian ascendancy

■ ua* easts. Bat we have a proof of their mer-

-' - •- the fad that they alone of the  
: in the building of the Hellenium

■ aiimlii (Herod, ii. 178); and we find them

P> prormuait part in the invasion of Egypt by

ib, (th. hi. la, 14.) They supplied a con-

to Darios in his Scythian expedition (lb. iv.

They sue closely connected with the affairs

: a 'oris (Id. vi. 5); and doubtless, though they

« Ml leparately mentioned, they were the best

Kae «f uW Atuhans who supplied sixty ships to

K3a a ab invasion of Greece. (Ib. vii. 95.)

the A'heuian supremacy and the

PBBaaaaui War is full of the fame of Mytilene.

■> ftJiinct of its citizens with those of Athens

>*■•<• after the final repulse of Persia. They held

ii'ii position among the allies which

nnj ua Athenian confederacy; but their revolt

AU«» in the foorth year of the Peloponnesian

av Wau>bt apuo them the most terrible ruin.

first dreadful decision of the Athenian

awaiy mas overruled (Thucyd. iii. 36), the walls of

pulled down, and her fleet given up;

a ferntary was djrided among Athenian share-

I fth* was deprived of her possessions and

-* inland., (lb. iii. 50.)  
'tU. ioseof tlie Peloponnesian War, Conon

Calbcratidas otf Mytilene, and block ■

t m harbour. (Xen. UelL i. 6.) We pass now

r, with whose campaigns this

isly connected. The Lesbians made

'nth Macedonia. Meinnun reduced the

suf the island: and his death, which in-

i last blow on the Persian power iu the

■a place in tlie moment of victory against

It ass retaken by Hegesiloclms, in the

'ha ream! reduction uf the islands, and

laarjrt secession uf territory. Two Myti-

3 and Erigy ius, the sons of Larichus,

•araaaad members of Alexander's start,

r *4i in action against the Hadrians; the

: at Syria even after Alexander's

> experience of the Roman power in the

> •• i Mytilene. Having cspouseil

f Haaridstii, and having held out to the

sscitrd by M. Tbennus, "n which i.r-

aajaxahly distinguished himself.

■» #»ndahip with Tbeophanes led to the

f Mytilene as a free city. (Plin. v. 31.)

i Fompey touched there

•paWcfi

for the last time to take Cornelia on board. His son

Sextus met with a friendly reception there, after his

defeat at sea, by Agrippa. (Dion Cass. xlix. 17;

App. B. C. v. 133.) Agrippa himself resided there

for some time in retirement, ostensibly on account of

his health, but really through mortification caused

by the preference shown to M. Marcellus (Tac.-4nn.

xiv. 53; Suet. Aug. 66, Tib. 10); and this resi­

dence is commemorated by an inscription still

extant. (See Pocockc) The last event which we

need mention in the imperial period is the crossing

over of Germanicus with Agrippina from Euboca to

Lesbos, and the birth of Julia. (Tac. Ann. ii. 54.)

This event, also, was commemorated both by coins

and inscriptions. (See Kckhel and Pucocke.) It

appears that the privilege of freedom was taken

away by Vespasian, but restored by Hadrian.

(Plehn, Lesbiac. p. 83.)

Mytilene is one of the few cities of the Aegean,

which have continued without intermission to flourish

till the present day. In the course of the middle

ages it gradually gave its name to the whole island.

Thus, in the Synecdcmus of Hierocles, MiruA-tivn

and MeuY^ca are both mentioned under the Pro­

vince of the JsUuuU; but in tlie later Ilyzantme

division, Mytilene is spoken of as an island, like

Lemno? ami Chios, in the Theme of the Aegean Sea,

(Const. Purphyrug. de Them. i. pp. 42,43, ed. Bonn.)

The fortunes of Mytilene during the hist advancis

of the Mahomedaus in the Levant, and during the

ascendancy of the Venetians at a later period, are

noticed in Pinlay's Ui&Utry of the Byzantine and

Greek Empire), vol. ii. pp. 72, 171, 223. The

island of Lesbos was not actually part of the Ma-

homedan empire till nearly ten years after tho

fall of Constantinople.

With tiie exception of the early struggles of tho

time of Alcaeus and Pittacus, there is little to be

said of the internal constitutional history of Mytilene.

It shared, with all Greek cities, the results of tho

struggles of the oligarchical and democratical parties.

We find a commonalty (Sauos) and a council (/tioAAa)

mentioned on coins of the period of Alexander; and

the title of magistrates, called o-TpaT7j7o'y (praetor),

appears on coins of Lucius Verus. In connection

with this part of the subject we may allude to two

creditable laws; one which enacted (doubtless iu

consequence of the great quantity of wine iu tho

island) that offences committed by the drunk should

be more severely punished than those committed by

the sober ( Ariat. Pot ii. 9. 9); the other making

a singular provision fur the punishment of faithless­

ness in tributary allies, by depriving them of the

privilege of educating their children. (Aclian, Far.

UUt. vii. 15.) [J. S. H.]

COIN OK MYTILENE.

MYTl'STKATUS (Muri'uTpaToj, Steph. 15.,

Died.; Moo-rlo-Tpa/ros, Zonar.; to MuttiVtpotoi'.

Pol.: Eth. Mutustratinus, Plin.), a town in the inte­

rior of Sicily, the position of which is wholly uncer-

c c 4

