TYR0S. TYRUS, 1251

tar, Alexander, and Antigonus. [Piiokxicia, pp.

610—613]. Th»t by Alexander was so remark­

able, and had so much influence on the topography

of Tm, that we reserved the details of it for this

place, ai they may be collected from the narra­

tors of Arrian (Annb. ii. 17—26), Diodorus Si-

coloa (rrii. 40—4S), and Q Cunins (iv. 4—27).

The insular situation of Tyre, the height and

Mrragth of its walls, and the command which it

riossfKsed of the sea, seemed to render it impregnable;

and hence the Tynans, when summoned by Alexander

t<> nurrender, prepared for an obstinate resistance.

The only method which occurred to the mind of that

cuiquenir of overcoming the difficulties presented to

his arms by the site of Tyre, was to connect it with

the mainland by means of a mole. The materials

far such a structure were at hand in abundance.

The deserted buildings of Palae-Tyrua afforded

plenty of stone, the mountains of Lebanon an inex­

haustible supply of timber. For a certain distance,

the mole, which was 200 feet in breadth, proceeded

rapidly and successfully, though Alexander's work­

man were often harassed by parties of Tyrian troops,

olio landed in boats, M well as by the Arabs of

the Syrian desert. But as the work approached the

i'land, the difficulties increased in a progressive ratio.

Xnt only was it threatened with destruction from

the depth and force of the current, often increased

to violence by a southerly wind, but the workmen

were also exposed to the missiles of the Tyrian

ijingrra and bowmen, aimed both from vessels and

from the battlements of the city. To guard them­

selves) from these attacks, the Macedonians erected

t»o lofty wooden towers at the extremity of the

mole, and covered them with hides as a protection

ajairtst fire. The soldiers placed on these towers

-rrasioned the Tynans considerable annoyance. At  
l-^icth, however, the latter succeeded in setting fire

to toe towers by means of a fire-ship filled with com-

l*ntible&; and afterwards, making a sortie in their

Soau, pulled up the stakes which protected the

in.Ir, and destroyed tho machines which the fire

hid not reached. To complete the discomfiture of

tiie Macedonians, a great storm arose and carried

away the whole of the work which had been thus

l'-»»enpd.

This misf irtnne, which would have damped the

ardour of an ordinary man, only incited Alexander

t" renew his efforts with greater vigour and on a

*arer plan. He ordered a new mole to be con­  
gruous!, broader than the former one; and in order

ta obviate the danger of destruction by the waves, he

:au«ed it to incline towards the SW., and thus to

-t*s the channel diagonally, instead of in a straight  
line. At the same time he collected a large fleet from

■•Hon, whither he went in person, from Soli, Mallus,

uvl other places; for, with the exception of Tyre, all

I'homiria was already in the hands of Alexander.

II« then made an incursion into Coelesyria, and

liased away the Arabs who annoyed his workmen

rmployed in cutting timber in Antilibanus. When he

igain retained to Tyre with his fleet, which he hud

ocned at Sadon, the new mole had already made great

mgresa. It was formed of whole trees with their

ranches, covered with layers of stone, on which

>thrr trees were heaped. The Tyrian divers, indeed,

ometimes succeeded in loosening the structure

y pulling out the trees; but, in spite of these

Hurts, the work proceeded Bteadily towards com-

Jetion.

The targe fleet which Alexander had assembled

struck terror into the Tyrians, who now confined

themselves to defensive measures. They sent away

the old men, women, and children to Carthage, and

closed the months of their harbours with a line of

triremes. It is unnecessary to recount all the inci­

dents which followed, and we shall therefore confine

ourselves to the most important. Alexander had

caused a number of new machines to be prepared,

under the direction of the ablest engineers of Phoe­

nicia and Cyprus. Some of these were planted mi

the mole, which now very nearly approached the

city; others were placed on board large vessels, in

order to batter the walls on other sides. Various

were the devices resorted to by the Tyrians to frus­

trate these attempts. They cut the cables of tho

vessels bearing the battering rams, and thus sent

them adrift; but this mode of defence was met by

the use of iron mooring chains. To deaden tho

blows of the battering engines, leathern bags filled

with sea-weed were suspended from the walls, whilst

on their summit were erected large wheel-like ma­

chines rilled with soft materials, which being set in

rapid motion, either averted or intercepted the mis­

siles hurled by the Macedonians. A second wall

also was commenced within the first. On the other

hand, the Macedonians, having now carried the mole

as far as the island, erected towers upon it equal in

height to the walls of the town, from which bridges

were projected towards the battlements, in order to

take the city by escalade. Yet, after all the la­

bour bestowed upon the mole, Tyre was not captured

by means of it. The Tyrians annoyed the soldiers

who manned the towers by throwing out grappling

hooks attached to lines, and thus dragging them

down. Nets were empluyed to entangle the hands of

the assailants; masses of red-hot metal were hurled

amongst them, and quantities of heated sand, which,

getting between the interstices of the armour, caused

intolerable pain. An attempted assault from the

bridges of the towers was repulsed, and does not ap­

pear to have been renewed. Hut a breach was made

in the walls by battering rams fixed on vessels; and

whilst this was assaulted by means of ships provided

with bridges, simultaneous attacks were directed

against both the harbours. The Phoenician fleet

burst the boom of the Kgryptian harbour, and took or

destroyed the ships within it. The northern har­

bour, the entrance of which was undefended, was

easily taken by the Cyprian fleet. Meanwhile

Alexander had entered with his troops through the

breach. Provoked by the long resistance of the

Tyrians and the obstinate defence still maintained

from tho roofs of the houses, the Macedonian soldiery

set fire to the city, and massacred 8000 of the inha­

bitants. The remainder, except those who fouud

shelter on board the Siduni.in fleet, were sold into

slavery, to the number of 30,000; and 2000 were

crucified in expiation of the murders of certain Ma­

cedonians duriug the course of the siege. The lives

of the king and chief magistrates were spared.

Thus was Tyre captured, after a siege of seven

months, in July of the year u. c. 332. Alexander

then ordered sacrifices and games in honour of the

Tyrian Hercules, and consecrated to him the batter­

ing ram which had made the first breach in the

walls. The population, which had been almost de­

stroyed, was replaced by new colonists, of whom a

considerable portion seein to hare been Carians. The

subsequent fortunes of Tyre have already been re­

corded. [Phoksicia, p. 613.]

For the coins of Tyre are EckheL Their. Num.

4 L 2

