970 SESTUS. SETAE.

SESTUS (2no*Tor: Eth. ^ttios), the principal

town of the Thracian Chersonesus, ar.d opposite to

Abydus,its distance from which is variously stated by

ancient writers, probably because their measurements

were made in different ways ; some speaking of the

mere breadth of tlie Hellespont where it is narrowest;

others of the distance from one city to the other;

which, again, might be reckoned either as an imagi­

nary straight line, or as the space traversed by

a vessel in crossing from either side to the other,

and this, owing to the current, depended to some

extent upon which shore was the starting point.

Strabo (xiii. p. 591) states that tlie strait is 7

stadia across near Abydus; but that from the

harbour of Abydus to that of Sestus, the distance is

30 stadia.* (On this point the following references

mav be consulted: Herod, vii. 34; Xen. Hell. iv. 8.

5; 'Polyb. xvi. 29; Seyl. p. 28; Plin. iv. U, s. 18.

Ukert (iii. 2. § 137, note 41) lias collected the vari­

ous statements made by the moderns respecting this

subject.)

Owing to its position, Sestus was for a long period

the usual point of departure for those crossing over

from Europe to Asia; but subsequently the Romans

selected Callipolts as the harbour for that purpose,

and thus, no doubt, hastened the decay of Sestus,

which, though never a very large town, was in earlier

times a place of great importance. According to

Theopompua («/>. Strab. I. a), it was a well-fortified

town, and connected with its port by a wall 200 feet

in length ((tk«Ac( Scn-Aefyy). Dercyllidas, also, in

a speech attributed to him by XenOpboQ {Hell. iv.

8. 1$ 5), describes it as extremely strong.

Sestus derives its chief celebrity from two circum­

stances,— the one poetical the other historical. The

former is its connection with the romantic story of

Hero and Leander, too well known to render it neces­

sary to do more than merely refer to it in this place

(Ov. Her. xviii. 127; Stat! Silt: i. 3. 27, &c.)i the

latter is the formation (b. C. 480) of the bridge of

boats acro>s the Hellespont, for the passaue of the

army of Xerxes into Europe; the western end of

which bridge was a little to the south of Sestus

(Herod, vii. 33). After the battle of Mycale, the

Athenians seized the opi>ortumty of recovering the

Chersonesus, and with that object laid siege to Ses­

tus, into which a great many Persians had hastily

retired on their approach, and which was very in­

sufficiently prepared for defence. Notwithstanding

this, the garrison held out bravely during manv

months; and it was not till the spring of b. c. 478

that it was so much reduced by famine as to have

become mutinous. The governor, Artayctes, and

other Persians, then fled from the town in the night;

and on this being discovered, the inhabitants opened

their gates to the Atheniaas. (Herod, ix. 115, seq.;

Thuc. i. 89.) It remained in their possession till

after tlie battle of Aegospotami, and used to be

called by them the corn-che>t of the t'iraeeus, from

its giving them the command of the trade of the

Kuxine. (Arist BkeL iii. 10. § 7.) At the close

r those i

* Lord Byron, in a note referring to his feat of  
swimming across from Sestus to Abydus, says:—

** The whole distance from the place whence we  
started to our landing on the other side, including

the length we were carried by the current, was com­

puted by those on board the frigate at upwards of

of the Peloponnesian War (b. c 404), SestM, *sfc

most of the other possessions of Athens in uV mm

quarter, fell into the hands of the Lacedn ima—

and their Persian allies. During the wir*tutb mn

afterwards broke out between Sparta sad Pa**,

Sestus adhered to the former, and refused to etoy

the command of Pharnabazos to expel the LsasW

monian garrison; in consequence of which A •»

blockaded by Conon (b. C. 394). but wiibt«l mm\

result, as it appears. (Xen. HtU. iv. 8. § 6.)

time after this, probably in consequence of tht

of Antalcidas (u. c. 387), Sestus regained i

dependence, though only for a lime, and ptrbap

name merely; for on the next occasion wbea it

mentioned, it is as belonging to the Penis*

Ariobarzanes, from whom Cotys, a Thracus o%

was endeavouring to take it by arms (a.c3ttrV

He was, however, compelled to raise the seee.

bablj by the united forces of Timol

Una (Xen. AffU. ii. 26; Nep. Timotk. 1); tht

authority states that Ariubarzanes, in

services of Timotheus in this war, gave Sestas

another towu to the Athenians *, from whom it ■

to have soon afterwards revolted, when it

to Cotys. But his successor, Orsnblepti

dared the whole Chersonesus, including S

the Athenians (b. c. 357), who, on the

refusal of Sestus to yield to them, sent

B.C. 353, to reduce it to obedience. Afters

resistance it was taken by assault, and si! tat

| inhabitants capable of bearing arms were, by

orders, barbarously massacred. (Diod. xri-H

Afterthis time we have little information r»]

Sestus. It appears to have fallen under tat

of the Macedonians, and the army of

lireat assembled there (b\ c 334), to be ca

from its harbour in a Grecian fleet, from Earops

shores of Asia. By the terms of the peace

(u. c. 197) between the Romans and Philip, US*

wxs required to withdraw his garrisons tram

places both in Europe and in Asia; and on

of the Khodians, actuated no doubt by a

free trade with the Kuxine, Sestus

the number. (Liy. xxxii. 33.) During the

Antiochus, the Romans were about to Isy

the town (b. c. 190); but it at once

(Liv. xxxvii. 9.) Strabo mentions Sestus at a

of some commercial importance in his Vmmt

history is silent respecting its subsequent

According to D'Aneille its site is occupied bya

plant called Zemtnic; but more recent

name it JaUnra (Mannert, vii. p. 193). (Hi

143; Thuc. viii. 62; Polyb. re. 44; Dwin,

Arrian, Anab. i. 11. §§ 5, 6: PtoL ia. 12- §4,

11. § 10; Steph. B. *. r.; Scmm. 70S

674.) [J,

SKSUVII [Essui].

SETAB1& [Saetabir.]

SETAE, SETTAE, or SAETTAE (2rrss,

rat, or SaiTrai), a town in Lydix, near thetai

of the river Ilermns, which is not rorotkneJ fcf

of the earlier writers. (HierocL p. 669: Pui

§ 21; Concil. Constant, iii. p. 502; ComaL W

n nines, tin 4 Engii9h mUeSi though the actual breadth is barely

Ins corresp.)nc_- fhil corresponds remarkably well with the

ncnts given j,eai,uri,ments gjvcn \,y stnib0, as above.

* There is much obscurity in this part of (  
history, and the statement of Xejxa

sidered inconsistent with seven]

authorities, who are undoubtedly of i

greater weight than the unknown eeis.« I

biographical notices which pajs under U» I

Nejws. (Sec Diet. Biogr. Vol. III. p. 1146, a

JJGD(8 ElAf.Ug

jiia coj-iGgbouqaeptf

p ini]6a' qwuSp i|S

