60 IOLAI. IONIA.

Cae.«arca is now identified, beyond nil doubt, with

the magnificent ruins at Zer$hell on the coast of

Algier, in a little more than 2° K. long. The

Arabic name is simply an abbreviation of Caemrea

Jol; a fact clear to the intuitive sagacity of Shaw,

and which, in connection with the statements of

the ancients, led that incomparable traveller to the

truth. Unfortunately, however, nearly all sub­

sequent writer* preferred to follow the thick-headed

Mannert, who was misled by an error in the An-

tonine Itinerary, whereby all the places along this

coast, for a considerable distance, are thrown too far

to the \V\; until the researches which followed the

Frencli conquest of the country revealed inscriptions

which set the question at rest for ever. There exist

few stronger examples of tiint golden rule of criti­

cism :— ** Ponderanda sunt testimonia, non ntrnir-

ramk" (Shaw, Travels, vol. i. pt. 1. c. 3; Harth,

W'amlervmgen, p. 56; PelHssier, in the Exploration

Scientifepie da TAlgeria, vol. vi. p. 349.) [I*. S.]

IOLAI or IOLAEXSKS (ToAaoi, Pans.; *Io-

Acuhoi, Diod.; 'loAacii, Strab. v. p. 22.r>), a |<eople

(<f Sardinia, who appear to have been one of the

indigenous or native tribes of the island. According

to Strabo, they were the same people who were

called in his day l)iagesbians or Diagebrians (Aia-

ynfytJs or Aiayno€us), a name otherwise unknown:

and he adds that they were a Tyrrhenian (icople, a

statement in itself not improbable. The commonly

received tradition, however, represented them at a

(■reek race, composed of emigrants from Attica ami

Thcspiae, who had settled in the island under the

command of Iolaus, the nephew of Hercules. (Pans.

x. 17. § 5; Diod. iv. 30? v. 15.) It is evident

that this legend was derived from the resemblance

of the name (in the form which it assumed accord­

ing to the Greek pronunciation) to that of Iolaus:

what the native form of the name was, we know

not; and it is not mentioned by any Latin author,

though both Pau-anias and Di odor us affirm that it

was still retained by the part of the i>land which

hail been inhabited by the lolai. Hence, modem

writers have assumed that the name is in reality

the same with that of the Ilieuses, which would

seem probable enough; but Pausomas, the only

writer who mentions them both, expressly dis­

tinguishes the two. That author sjieaks of Olbia,

in the NK. part of the island, as one of their chief

towns. Diudorus represents them, on the contrary,

as occupying the plains and most fertile portions

of the inland, while the district adjoining Olbia is

one of the most rugged and mountainous in Sar­

dinia. [K. H. B.]

IOLCUS ('ImAkoj, Ep. 'Io«A*rrfj, I>or. 'loAitdr:

Kih. 'I&SAkios, fern. 'IuAxir, 'IwAicfai), an ancient

city of Magnesia in Thessaly, situated at the head of

the Pogouean gulf and at the foot of Mt. I'elion

(l'ind Ainu. iv. 88), and celebrated in the heroic

ages as the residence of Jason, and the place where

the Argonauts assembled. [See Diet of liiogr. artt.

Jason and AhouNaltak.] It is mentioned by

Homer, who gives it the epithets of i\nciiti**nt\ and

ivpuxopoi (//. ii. 712, Od xi. 256). It is said

to hare born founded by C ret he us (Apollod. i. 9. §

11), and to hare been colonised by Minyans from

Orchomeno*. (Strab. ix. p. 414.) lolcus is rarely

mentioned in historical times. It was given by the

Thessalions to Hippias, upon his expulsion from

Athens. (Herod, v. 94.) The town afterwards suf-

ferrd from the dis<*en>i<>n.t of its inhabitants, but it

was finally ruined by tho foundation of lstmctrias in

n. r. 290, when the inhabitant* of Iolcos and of <vb-r

adjoining towns were removed to this place. (Strab.

ix. p. 436.) It seems to have been no longer in ex­

istence in the time of Strabo, 6ince he speaks of tlis

place where Iolcos stood (A t^j "IvKkuv towot, ix.

p. 438).

The position of Iolcos is indicated by Strabo, who

says that it was on the road from Boebe to I>eme-

trias, and at the distance of 7 stadia from the latter

(ix. p. 438). In another passage he says that

Iolcos is situated above the sea at the distance of

7 stadia from Demetrius (ix. p. 436). Pindar aim,

as we have already seen, places Iolcos at the foot of

Mt. Pelion, consequently a little inland. From these

descriptions there is little doubt that Leake is richt

in placing Iolcos on the steep height between tho

southernmost houses of Vulo and Ylakho-makkaLi,

upon which stands a church called KpiskopL "Mm-re

are at present no ancient remains at this place; but

some large squared blocks of stone are said to have

formerly existed at the foot of the height, and to

have been carried away for the construction of build­

ings elsewhere. Moreover, it is the only »i«ot i:i tho

neighbourhood which has any appearance «4" b*-.i<

an ancient site. It might indeed appear, fnxn Livy

(xliv. 12, 13), that loleus was situated upon the

coast; but in this passage, as well as in Strabo (ix.

p. 436), the name of Iolcos seems to have been given

to this part of the coast as well as to the city i!**-!*.

(Leake, Northern Greece, vol. iv. p. 379; Mezii-rr?,

Mimoira tur le Pelion et fOssa, p. 11.)

JOMAXES (Plin. vi. 17. a. 21), the most im­

portant of the affluents of the Ganges, into which it

Hows near the city of Allahabad (Pratbdithana).

There can I* no doubt that Arrian mean.* the ujiic

river when he speaks of Iobares (Ind c 8); and

Ptolemy expresses nearly the same bound, when

he names the Di&muns (vii. 1. § 29). It is now

calied the Jamuna or Jumna. The Jumna rises in

the highest part of the Himalaya, at no great dis­

tance from the sounvs of the Sutledge and Hunan,

respectively, in the neighbourhood of Jamuna raturi

(Jumnotri), which is probably the most sacred spi»t

of Hindu worship. It enters the Iitdiau pUm

country at Fyzabad, and on its way to join lira

Ganges it posses the important cities of JJeJUi (In-

draprastha) and Agra (Crishmapura), and meives

several large tributaries. These affluents, in order

from W. to E., are the Sambus (Arrian, lud. c, 4),

(probably the t'armanvati or Cambai), the Lt*tnn

(or Vetravati), and the C'ainas (Arrian, ic.j Pirn,

vi. 19. s. 21: now Guyana or Ccna). Tbe last has

been already mentioned as one of the tributaries «.f

the Ganges. £V*3

10MMLM. [Mavkktama.]

ION (*!•»»'), • river of Tymphaea in Theasaly,

rising in the CambunUn mountains, and flowing iittv

the Pcneius: now river of Ardtsora. (Strab. t.l.

p. 327, Leake, Northern Greece, vol. ir }x 646.)

ION MONS. [Libya.]

IONKS. [Ionia.]

IONIA ('lama), also calh-.l Ioni% the countn «4*

Asia Minor inhabited by Ionian Greeks, and oum-

pruing the we>tern coast from Phocara in the north

to Miletus in the south. (Herod, i. 142; Strab. xi\.

init.; Plin. v. 31.) Its length from north to smitli,

in a straight line, amounted lo 800 stadia, while the

length of its much indented coast amounted to 3430;

and th« distance from Kphcsus to Smyrna, in a

straight line, was only 320 stadia, while along (1m

coast it reached the large number of 3200. (StraK

