SAMNIUM. 891 SAMNIUM.

H'r'rmtnm, is little if at all inferior to it in magni-

t:Jr ud volume of waters. The Calor itself rises

□ the lofty group of mountains between & Angela

oi LmJbtmH and Eboli. This group, which is

•..D-timts designated as Monte Irpino, and is the

t»[ elevated in this part of the Apennines, sends

does its waters to the N. in the Calor and its tribn-

tiiy the Sabatus; while on the E. it gives rise to

K* Aufidio, which flows into the Adriatic sea, after

turning more than two-thirds of the breadth of

Iiilv; sad on the S. the Silarus flows bj a mnch

liwvr coarse into the Gulf of Salerno. From this

>nt, which forms a kind of knot in the main chain

c ibe Apennines, the mountains sweep round in a

rttr.i-iitle to the NE. and N. till they reach the bead

«attr* of the Tamarus, and adjoin the mountains

madr described in the neighbourhood of Bojano

u>J Campabaao. In this part of its course the

ru.n chain sends down the streams of the Ujita and

^9 .Vueono on the W. to swell the waters of the

'.li-nr, while on the E. it gives rise to the Cerbalus

r Crrmro, a stream flowing into the Adriatic.

*. From the Monte Irpino towards the E. the  
ihl- at the upper valley of the AuhMus was

□rlajVi in Samnium, though tlie lower part of its

am lar through Apulia. The exact limit cannot

- "iW,—the confine* of the Hirpini towards Apulia  
f. ti« one tide, and Lucania on the other, being,

i' tie boundaries of Sainnium in general, almost

>U'jv arbitrary, and not marked by any natural

Bit. It may be considered, indeed, that in general

.Tmntain country belonged to Samnium, and the

ww tails or hills to Apulia; but it is evident that

■--a s distinction is itself often arbitrary and un-

mun. In like manner, the rugged mountain chain

tieh extends along the right bank of the Aufidus

.r#ir* to hare been included in Samnium; but the

* of demarcation between this and Lucania cannot  
'aeterrained with accuracy. On the other hand,

* cetached volcanic mass of Muss Vultur, with

* aijaeent city of Venusia, was certainly not con­  
tend to belong to Samnium.

II. History.

AC ancient writers agree in representing the

■J-tites as a people of Sabine origin, and not the

c ut occupants of the country they inhabited when

"firrt appear in history, but as having migrated

at a corn|iaratively late period. (V'arr. L.L.

i »: Appian, Scwmit.. Fr. 4, 5; Strab. v. p. 250;

■L < r. Samnites, p. 326; A. Gell. xi. 1.) This

f'cta of their origin is strongly confirmed by the

f>'*nce of their name; the Greek form of which,

zi^lrai. evidently contains the same root as that

'Sahiai (Sap-nitae or Saf-nitMe. and Sno-ini or

*f-ai); and there is reason to believe that they  
-TivJtes u.-*d a name still more closely identical.

'be Oscan form "Safinim," found on some of

» i-oarii struck by the Italian allies during the

rail War, cannot refer to the Sabines usually so

''iti. as that people was long before incorporated

the Krtmans. and is, in all probability, the Oscan

mm at the Samnites. (Mommsen, Unter Hal.

•winr, p. 293; Fried lander, Oikucke Minvm,

• o.) The adjective form Sabellus was also used

■! SmAU by the Komans as applied to the Sa-

-»» and the Samnites. [Sabini.]

It* Samnite emigration was, according to Strabo

'250), one of those sent forth in pursuance of

or what was called a " ver sacrum." It was,

iual, under the special protection of Mars, and

was supposed to have been guided by a bull. (Strab.

L c.) It is probable from this statement that the

emigrants could not have been numerous, and that

they established themselves in Samnium rather as

conquerors than settlers. The previously existing

population was apparently Oscan. Strabo tells us

that they established themselves in the land of the

Oscans (f. c); and this explains the circumstance

that throughout the Samnite territory the languago

spoken was Oscan. (Liv. x. 20.) But the Oscans

themselves were undoubtedly a cognate tribe with

the Sabines [Italia]; and whatever may have

been the circumstances of the conquest (concerning

which we have no information), it seems certain

that at an early period both branches of the popu­

lation had completely coalesced into one people

under the name of the Samnites.

The period at which the first emigration of the

Samnites took place is wholly unknown; but it is

probable that they bad not been long in possession

of their mountainous and inland abodes before they

began to feel the necessity of extending their do­

minion over the more fertile regions that surrounded

them. Their first movements for this purpose were

probably those by which tbey occupied the hilly but

fertile tract of the Frentani on the shores of the

Adriatic, and the land of the Hirpini on the S.

Both these nations are generally admitted to be of

Samnite origin. The Frentani, indeed, were some­

times reckoned to belong to tho Samnite nation,

though they appear to hare had no political union

with them [Fkkstani]: the Hirpini, on the con­

trary, were generally regarded as one of the compo­

nent parts of the Samnite nation; but they appear to

have been originally a separate colony, and the story

told by Strabo and others of their deriving their

name from the wolf that had been their leader, evi­

dently points to their having been the result of a

separate and subsequent migration. (Strab. v. p.

250; Senr. ad Aen. xi. 785.) The period of this

is, however, as uncertain as that of the first settle­

ment of the other Samnites: it is not till they began

to spread themselves still further both towards the

S. and W., and press npon their neighbours in Lu­

cania and Campania, that the light of history begins

to dawn npon their movements. Even then their

chronology is not clearly fixed; but the conquest

and occupation of Campania may be placed from

about B. c. 440 to b. c. 420, and was certainly

completed by tho last of these dates. [Campania.]

That of Lucania must probably be placed somewhat

later; but whatever were the causes which were at

this time urging the movements of the Sabellian

tribes towards the S., they seem to havo continued

steadily in operation; and within less than half a

century (b. c. 410—360) the Samnites spread

themselves throtfgh the whole of Lucania, and

almost to the southern extremity of Italy. [Lu­

cania.] The subsequent fortunes of these con­

quering races, and their contests with the cities

of Magna Graecia, do not belong to our present

subject, for the Lucanians seem to have early broken

off all political connection with their parent nation,

the Samnites, just as the latter had done with their

Sabine ancestors. This laxity in their political ties,

and want of a common bond of union, seems to have

been in great measure characteristic of the Sabellian

races, and was one of the causes which undoubtedly

paved the way for their final subjection nnder the

Roman yoke. But the Samnites seem to hare re­

tained possesskn, down to a much later period, of

