NILUS. 431 NILUS.

Jk im Marry resembles in its natural features

mi us rahrrstion of its batiks the acknowledged

athaW tht junction lower down. The current

■ mfliad regular: the banks are firm and well

aaad: pydoas villages stand in the midst of

data af data-trees or fields of millet (dJiuurra\

aw atii the land and the water attest the activity

aftsau enterprise.

A oferrocs corresponding to these features is

stent* abo in the respective currents of these

awn. Tat White Hirer mores sluggishly along,

•taxi lipids or cataracts: the Blue Rirer runs

aatfir it aQ leans!!, and after the periodical rains

Bit lit force sad speed of a torrent. The direr-

P* a ass also on the arrival of their waters at the

af jsactioa. Although the White Rirer is

h ajrir rsins near the equator, its floods ordi-

i aaartiias three weeks later thau those

And at their place of meeting

of the latter is apparent. For

■a Krcnrrr flood discharges itself through a

fee from ban and shoals, the While

a csCrscted at its month, and the more rapid

af its mal has thrown up a line of sand

Aetna! measurement, too, has

the breadth of the Blue Birer at the point

to be 768 Tarda, while that of the

a <aiv 483, and the body of water poured

»y Iks fanner is double of that discharged by

From all these circumstances it is pro­

lan to the Bakr-el-Asret rather than to

'd-Abiad belongs the name of the "true

mi this supposition accords with an ancient

aawjg the people of Scnnaar who hold the

'a peculiar veneration as the "Father of

that ran into the Great Sea."

keowieJrt possessed by the ancients of the

and tributaries of the Nile was not

m a direct proportion to the date of their

cgions. Indeed, the earlier

BBBBrrce was more favourable to acquaint-

■a Bat interior than were its later channels,

aaaaaf route declined after the Ptolemies

Bad the trade from the rivers and the roads

tat desert to Axutne, Adulis, Berenice, and

kef tat Bed Sea. Eratosthenes and other geo-

* who wrote while Aethiopia still flourished,  
■lbaaar means of information than their sue-

'A aVansa limea, Strabo, Ptolemy, &c. Dio-

(l *>), far example, says that a voyage up

a» UtiM was a costly and hazardous under-

NWsexplorers(Plin. v. 9. „. 10; Senec.

I) seen to hare found in that once popu-

awtut kingdom only solitude and decay.

a» of the third century a. d. the Romans

»«ry station on the Nile above Philae,

the cast and care of defence,—a proof

tf* CTW-traffic, beyond Aegypt, must hare

Mb, As the trade with Arabia and

(Cejrfoa) by sea dereloped itself, that with

•aahf ksosast af leaa Unpnrtsnce; and in pro­

as tht Bad Sea was better known, the

aad sources of the Nile were obscured.

n».\sle (Wow Ute point of junction.—The

m a artmrnnn bed for aereral miles

without, however, blending their

Tat baitr-J biad retains its white soapy

a* » the dry s<amn and during the inun-

IVaVaV the Bakr-Atrtk is distinguished by

ffcsjaWr. Far 1» or 15 miles below

slow the point

r and gloomy

defile, until it emerges among the immense plains

of herbage in the mesopotamian district of Meroe.

Beyond Meroe, already described [Mkkoe], the

•Nile receives its last considerable affluent, the Asta-

boras or Tacazze; the only other accessions to its

stream in its course northward being the torrents or

wadys that, in the rainy season, descend from the

Arabian hills. From the N. of Meroe to Syene,

a distance of about 700 miles, the river enters

upon the region of Cataracts, concerning which the

ancients invented or credited so many marvels.

(Cic Somn. Scip. 5; Senec. N. 0. iv. 2.)

These rapids are seven in number, and are

simply dams or weirs of granite or porphyry rising

through the sandstone, and, being little affected

by the attrition of the water, resist its action,

divide its stream, and render its fall per mile

double of the average fall below Philae. So far,

however, from the river descending lofty precipices

with a deafening noise, even the steepest of tho

rapids may be shot, though not without some dan­

ger, at high water; and at the great Cataract the

entire descent in a space of 5 miles is only 80 feet.

[Philae.] Increased by the stream of the Asta-

boras, the Nile, from lat. 17° 45' N., flows in a

northerly direction for 120 miles, through the land

of the Berbers. Then comes its great SW. elbow

or bend, commencing at the rocky island of

Mogrtb (lat. 19° N.), and continuing nearly

to the most northern point of Meroe. During

this lateral deflection the Nile is bounded W. by

the deseit of Baliiouda, the region of the an­

cient Nubae, and £. by the Arabian Desert, in­

habited, or rather traversed, by the nomade Blem-

myes and Megabari. [Macrobii.] Throughout

this portion of its course the navigation of the river

is greatly impeded by rapids, so that the caravans

leave its banks, and regain them by a road crossing

the eastern desert at Berr or Syene, between the

first and second Cataracts. No monuments connect

this region with either Meroe or Aegypt It must

always, indeed, have been thinly peopled, since the

only cultivable soil consists of strips or patches of

land extending about 2 miles at furthest beyond

either bank of the Nile.

While skirting or intersecting the kingdom of

Meroe, tho river flowed by city and necropolis,

which, according to some writers, imparted their

fonns and civilisation to Aegypt, according to

others derived both art and polity from it. The

desert of Buhivuda severs the chain of monuments,

which, however, is resumed below the fourth Cata­

ract at Nouri, Gebel-eUBirktl, and Merawt.

(Lat. 20° N.) Of thirty-five pyramids at AWt,

on the left bank of the river, about half are in

good preservation; but the purpose which they

serred is uncertain, since no ruins of any cities

point to them as a necropolis, and they are without

sculptures or hieroglyphics. On the western side

of Gebel~el-Birkel, about 8 miles lower down, and

on the right bank, are found not only pyramids, but

also the remains of several temples and the ves­

tiges of a city, probably Napata, the capital of Can-

dace, the Aetliiopian queen. [Napata.] (Cail-

liaud, I' Isle de Meroe, vol. iii. p. 197; Hoskins,

Travel*, p. 136—141.) About the 18th degree

of N. latitude the Nile resumes its northerly direc­

tion, which it observes generally until it approaches

the second Cataract. In resuming its direct course

to N., it enters the kingdom of Dongola, and most

of the features which marked its channel through the

