ROMA. ROMA. 7M

t! r(f fttml of crane on the sooth side. This

4l,i* muuirm is ilao established by the accounts

tori tt kin of basilicas being built either on or

•v :)>m litej. as will appear in the sequel. Their

-\ rrant cannot be satisfactorily ascertained, but  
m'v tier could not have stood before the curia

r oiitjnm. In process of time the forum began

pi a • better appearance by the conversion of

» x,.rhers' ihops into those of silversmiths (** Hoc

:milinjrimum forensis dignitas crevit, atque ex

lanienis argentariae factae," Varro m Non.

IN, M.) No clue, however, is given to the exact

'• < tin* rhanee. The earliest period at which

tlie argentari/K is in Livy's description of

■avropbaf I'ipirius Cursor, B. c. 308 (ix. 40).

1^ tl* comitia were declared it seems to have

■- rutumary for the argentarii to close their shops,

ft L L vL $ 91, MB11.) The tabernae were

ti W rnh ilnrmiana or balconies, which extended

•1 the columns supporting the porticoes, and

> fraed convenient places for beholding the

n og the forum (Festus, p. 134, Mlill.; Isid.

t tv. i, II.) These Maeniana appear to have

■ (total with subjects. Thus Cicero: •' IV-

«"m dirito pictum Galium in Mariano scuto

■ns» Mi Novis * (afe Or. ii. 66) I'liny mentions

W ficlore, or rather caricature, of a Gaul tnb

vwaa. and also a figure of an old shepherd with

• t TV latter appears to have been considered

Rtuia as a valuable work, as some of them

i • iVerman ambassador what he valued it at?

barbarian, who had no taste for art, said he

Iart hare it as a gift, even if the man was real

■*»* (xxxv. 8). According to Varro, quoted

t- nine author (fb. 37), the Maeniana sub

were painted by Serapion.

*-*.Vr terrice which Tarquin indirectly rendered  
'tmm was by the construction of his cloacae,

> At the efiect of thoroughly draining it It was

t" the Lacc* CcHTTtJs, which had formerly

■ * the auddle of the forum, disappeared

~ it* in locuin palustrem, qui turn fuit in foro,

cbacae sunt factae, secessisse," Piso op.

I. Lr. § 149. seq. MM!.) Thus, though not

■ if a story as the self-immolation of Curtius,

Maws the true representation; but all the three

'rneacctBxl witli the subject will be found in

ft «.) It was perhaps in commemoration of

^r-V* that til* shrine or sacellum of Vehis

"» was erected on the N. side of the tbrum,

'I ibarnae Novae, as appears from the story

t'coa, or cujatiXA. (From a Coin.)

■» t» it (Lir. iiu 48 ; cf. PI Li. XT. 36.)

*" the Lams Curtius after its disappearance  
vts-ntad in another manner. Having been

trwtBisur. it seems to have been converted

~* awaiu/. vhjch, however, still continued to

m» of Lama Curtius (cf. Varr.v § 150):

tTW liros. si cow qui sustinet aras,

'dc aobda est tellus, sed lacns ante fuit."

. (Or. Fast. vi. 397.)

Every year the people used to throw pieces of money

into it, a sort of augurium salutis, or new year's gill

for Augustus. (Suet. Aug. 57.) Close to it giew a

fig-tree, a vine, and an olive, which had been for­

tuitously planted, and were sedulously cultivated by

the people; and near them was an altar, dedicated

to Vulcan, which was removed at the time of the

gladiatorial games given at Caesar's funeral. (Plin.

xv. 20 s cf. Gruter, Inter. Ixi. 1, 2.)

Serrius Tullius probably carried on and completed

the works begun by his predecessor around the

forum, just as he finished the wall; but he dues not

appear to have undertaken anything original except­

ing the adding of a lower dungeon, called after him

Tri.i.iANUM, to the Mamertinc prison. (" In hoo

(carcere) pars quae sub terra Tullianum, ideo quod

additum a Tullio rege," Varr. L. L. v. § 151.) This

remains to the present day, and still realises to the

spectator the terrible description of Sallust ( Cat. 55).

The Roman Cictroni point out to the traveller

the Scalar Gemoniak inside the Mamertinc prison,

where there are evident remains of an ancient stair­

case. But it appears from descriptions in ancient

authors that thi>y were situated in a path leading

down from the Capitol towards the prison, and that

they were visible from the forum. (Dion Cass, lvifi.

5; Valer. Max. vi. 9. § 13; Tac. Hut. iii. 74.) Traces

of this path were discovered in the 16th century

(Luc. Fauno, Ant. di Roma, p. 32), and also nut

many years ago in excavating the ground by the

arch of Severus. #

It does not appear that any additions or improve­

ments were made in the forum during the reign of

Tarquinius Snperbus.

7"A« Forum during the Republic. — One of

the earliest buildings erected near the forum in

the republican times was the temple of Castuk

A.xt> Pollix. After the battle at lake Regillus,

the Dioscuri, who had assisted the Unmans in the

fight, were seen refreshing themselves and their

horses, all covered with dust and sweat, at the little

fountain of Jutuma, near the temple of Vesta.

(Dionys. vi. 13; Val. Max. i. 8. § 1 ; Cic. JV. D.

ii. 2, &c.) A temple had been vowed to those

deities during the Latin War by Postumius the

dictator; and the spot where this apparition had

been observed was chosen for its site. It was dedi­

cated by the son of Postumius B. c. 484. (Liv.

ii. 42.) It was not a temple of the largest size;

but its conspicuous situation on the forum made

it one of the best known in Rome. From the

same circumstance the flight of steps lending up to

it served as a kind of suggestum or rostm from

which to address the people in the forum; a pur­

pose to which it seems to have been sometimes

applied by Caesar. (Dion Cass, xxxviil. 6; cf. Cic.

p.Sett. 15 ; Appian, B.C. iii. 41.) The temple served

for assemblies of the senate, and for judicial busi­

ness. Its importance is thus described by Cicero:

"In aede Casturis, celeberrimo clarissimoque monu-

mento, quod templum in oculis quotidianoque eon-

spectu populi Romani est positum ; quo saepeniitnero

senatus convocatur; quo maximarum rerum fre-

quentissimae quotidic advocationes Aunt" (t» Kerr,

i. 49). Though dedicated to the twin gods, the

temple was commonly called only Atdrs Castoru,

as in the preceding passage; whence Bibulus, the

colleague of Caesar in the aedileship, took occasion

to compare himself to Pollux, who, though he shared

the temple in common with his brother, was never

once named. (Snet. Coe». 10.) It was restored by

