MAGNA GRAECIA. 247 MAGNA GRAECIA.

nies in Italy Even of these, it is not clear whether [

I'uinat ami its colonies in Campania were regarded

as belonging to it: it is certain at least that the

name Li more generally used with reference only to

the Greek cities in the south of Italy, including

those on the shores of the Tarentine gulf and the

Bruttun peninsula, together with Velia, Posidonia,

and Laiis, on the W. coast of Lucania. Sometimes,

indeed, tlie name is confined within still narrower

li'uits, as applying only to the cities on the Tarentine

gulf, from Locri to 'i'arentum (PJin. iii. 10. s. 15;

IXoL iii 1, § 10); but it is probable that this di.v*

function was introduced only by the later geogra­

phers, anil did not correspond to the original meaning

o; liie term. Indeed, the name itself sufficiently

implies (what U expressly 6tated by many ancient

writers) that it was derived from the number and

importance of the Greek colonies in Southern Italy,

and must, therefore, naturally have been extended

to them all. (Strab. vi. p. 253; Scymn. Ch. 303;

r :. ii. 39, iii. 118; At hen. xii. p. 523; Justin,

xx. 2; Cic. Tutc iv. 1, v. 4, dt Or. iii. 34.) It

must be added that the name was never understood

(except j#rhaps by late geographers) as a territorial

one. including the whole of Southern Italy, but ap­

plied merely to the Greek cities on the coasts, so as

to correspond with the expression "Graecorum omnis

ora," employed by Livy (xxii. 61). The same au­

thor in one passage (xxxi. 7) uses the phrase

** Graei'ia Major." which is found also in Festus  
(p. 134, ed. Mtill.), and employed by Justin and

Ovid (Justin, Lc; Ov. t'a/t. iv. 64); but the

rtonmon form of expression was certainly Graecia

Ma*na (Cic. U. ce.)

There could obviously be no ethnic appellation

which corresponded to such a term; but it is im-

pxtjiit to observe tliat the name of 'iTaAaJrai is

uivenally Usui by the best writers to designute the

Omit r» Jtahj. or as equivalent to the phrase oi

Kara tt)k TtoAi'oi' 'EWijvts, and is never con­

founded with that of 'ItoAui, or the Italians in

general. (Thuc. vi. 44 ; Herod, iv. 15, Ac.) Poly-

bins, however, as well as later writers, sometimes

low* H^ht of this iistinction. (Pol. vi. 52.)

Tlie geographical description of the country known

m Mj?na Graecia is given under the article Italia,

and in more detail in those of Bhuttii, Ll'CAM.v,

and Cai.abkia; hut as the history of these Greek

rulooiea is to a great extent separate from that of

tlie mother country, while it is equally distinct from

tlut of the Italian nations which came early in con-

tart with Ibime, it will be convenient here to give

a brief summary of the history of Magna Graecia,

b'tn^ing together under one head the leading facts

which are given in the articles of the several

exir*.

The general testimony of antiquity points toCumae

as the most ancient of all the Greek settlements in

Italy; and though we may reasonably refuse to

adnut tlie precise date assigned for its foundation

(a.c 1050), there seems no sufficient reason to

doubt the fart that it really preceded all other Greek

cclnies in Italy or Sicily. [Cumae.] But, from

its remote poxition. it appears to have been in great

measure isolated from the later Greek settlements.

and, togetlier with its own colonies and dependencies,

lKraeanhia and Neapolia, formed a little group of

(ireek cities, that had but little connection with

those farther south, which here form the immediate

subject of consideration.

With the single exception of Cumae, it seems

certain that none of the Greek colonies in Italy were

more ancient than those in Sicily; while there seems

good reason to suppose that the greater part of them

were founded within the half century which followed

the first commencement of Greek colonisation in that

quarter, (b. c. 735—685.) The causes which

just at that period gave so sudden an impulse to

emigration in this direction, are unknown to us;

but, though the precise dates of the foundation of

these colonies are often uncertain, and we have no

record of their establishment equal either in com­

pleteness or authority to that preserved by Thucy-

dulcs concerning the Greek cities in Sicily, we may

still trace with tolerable certainty the course and

progress of the Greek colonisation of Italy.

The Achaeans led the way; and it is remarkable

that a people who never played more than a subor­

dinate (art in the affairs of Greece itself should have

been the founders of the two most powerful cities of

Magna Graecia. Of these, Sybakis was the earliest

of the Achaean colonies, and the most ancient of the

Greek settlements in Italy of which the date is

known with any approach to certainty. Its foun­

dation is ascribed to the year 720 b. c. (Scymn.

Ch. 360; Clinton, F. II. vol. i. p. 174); and'that

of Ckotoka, according to the best authorities, may

be placed about ten years later, B.C. 710. [Cuo-

tona.] Within a very few years of the same period,

took place the settlement of Tahkntum, a fMiartan

colony founded after tlie close of the First Messcnian

War, about 708 B. c. A spirit of rivalry between

this city and the Achaean colonies seems to have

early sprung up; and it was with a view of checking

the encroachments of the Tarcntines that the

Achaeans, at the invitation of the Sybarites, founded

the colony of Metapontum, on the immediate

frontier of the Tarentine territory. The date of this

is very uncertain (though it may probably be placed

between 700 and 680 B. c.); but it is clear that

Metapontum mse rapidly to prosperity, and became

the third in importance among the Achaean colonies.

While the latter were thus extending themselves

along the shores of the Tarentine gulf, we find sub­

sisting in tho midst of them the Ionian colony of

Sims, the history of which is extremely obscure,

but which for a brief period rivalled even the neigh­

bouring Sybaris ill opulence and luxury. [Sikis],

Further towards the S., the Locrinns from Greece

founded near the Cape Zephyrium the city which

was thence known by the name of Loctti Epize-

PHTIUI. This settlement is described by Strabo as

nearly contemporary with that of Crotona (B.C. 710),

though some authorities would bring it down to a

period thirty or forty years later, [Lockl] The next

important colony was that of I'hkgii'm, on the

Sicilian straits, which was, according to tho general

statement, a C*~ Acidic colony, founded subsequently

to Zancle in Sicily, but which, from the traditions

connected with its foundation, would seem to have

been more ancient even than Sybaris. [ItiiEoiVM."|

The Greek cities on the Tyrrhenian sea along the

shores of Brultium and Lucauia were, with the

single exception of Vkua, which was not founded

till about 540 B. c, all of them colonies from the

earlier settlements already noticed and not sent out

directly from the mother country. Thus Posi-

DONIA, LaUs and Scidri's, on the Tyrrhenian sea,

were all colonies of Sybaris, which in the days of its

greatness undoubtedly extended its dominion from sea

to sea. In like manner, Crotona had founded Tf.iiina

on the W. coast of the Bruttian peninsula, as well

R 4

