TYKUS. 1219 TTHUS.

m* (Plant. True. 2, 6, 58; Virg. Georg. ii. 506;

lav. x. 38; Gel I. xiv. 6, Stc.) The former of these

■irjiologies is the preferable one. (Shaw, Travels,

u p. 31.) The question of the origin of Tyre tins

x*n already discussed, its coninierce, manufacture!)

ul colonies described, and the principal events of

t* history narrated at some length [Phoenicia,

k 606, •*<]•], and this article will therefore be more

-uiicularly devoted to the topography, and to what  
iiar be called the material history, of the city.

Strabo (xvj. pw 756) places Tyre at a distance of

stadia from Sidon, which pretty nearly agrees

tith tie distance of 24 miles assigned by the J tin.

*uL (p. 149) and the Tab. Pcuting. It was built  
wily on an island and partly on the mainland.

Ircording to Pliny (v. 19. s. 17) the island was

\'i fttadia, or 2j miles, in circumference, and was

nginally separated from the continent by a deep

liannel ^ths of a mile in breadth. In his time,

"After, as well as long previously (cf. Strab. /. c),

t was connected with the mainland by an isthmus

irrucd by the mole or causeway constructed by

thunder when he was besieging Tyre, and by

uiisttjuent accumulations of sand. Some authorities

tale the channel to have been only 3 stadia (Scylux,

>. 42) or 4 stadia broad (Diodor. Sic. xvii. 60;

'tut. iv. 2); and Arrian (Anab. ii. 18) describes it

i ihallow near the continent and only 6 fathoms

it depth at its deepest part near the island. The

vreuuu of the isthmus must have been consider-

•\t in the course of ages. William of Tyro dc-

nU* il in the time of the Crusades as a bow-shot

'M*a (xiit. 4); the I'ere Hoger makes it only 50

nces (Terre Sainte, p. 41); but at pre.-.ent it is

tat | of a mite broad at its narrowest part, near

tie island.

Ihit j<art of the city which lay on the mainland

s talli-il Palae-Tyrus, or Old Tyre; an spallation

^rn which we necessarily infer that it existed pre-

tuualy to the city on the island; and this inference

i continued by Ezeku-1's prophetical description of

■•siege of Tyre by Nebuchadnezzar, king uf Ba-

the particulars of which are not suitable

< on island city. Palae-Tyrus extended along the

!wre from the river Leontes on the N., to the foun-

un of ItaS'tl'Ain on the S., a sjaict" of 7 miles;

..<li( however, must have included the suburbs.

Hit-ti Strabo says (xvi. p. 758) tliat Palae-Tyrus

■» 30 stadia, or 3$ miles, distant from Tyre*, lie

[Tuiiably considering the southern extremity of

>*■ fonner. Pliny c.) assigns a circumference

: 19 miles to the two cities. The plain in which

alae-Tyrus was situated was one of the broadest

nd most fertile in Phoenicia. The fountain alwve

iftiti >ned afforded a constant supply of pure spring

.iter, which was received into an octagon reservoir,

u f»-et In diameter and 18 feet deep. Into this re-

rn-ir the water gushes to within 3 feet of the top.

M.umdrell, Jcvmry, p. 67.) Hence it waa distri-

uLrrl through the town by means of an aqueduct,

<! trace of which has now disappeared (liobinson,

taIaLm. p. 684.) The unusual contrast between

tie bustle uf a great seaport and the more tranquil

jTatiuns of rural life in the fertile fields which

iT^unded the town, presented a striking scene

hica is described with much felicity in the Diony-

taen of Nonnoa (40, 327, sqq ).

The island on which the new city was built is the

inreat rock of a belt that runs along this part

Ithe coast. We have no means of determining the

■'.in of the inland city; but it must of course liave

\ou a.

arisen in the period between Nebuchadnezzar and

Alexander the Great. The alterations which the

coast has undergone at this part render it difficult

to determine the original size nf the island. Maun-

drell (p. 66) estimated it at only 40 acres; but he

was guided solely by his eye. The city was sur­

rounded with a wall, the height of which, where it

faced the mainland, was 150 feet. (Arrian, Amth.

ii. 18.) The foundations of this wall, which must

have marked the limits of the island as well as of

the city, may still l>e di.-cenied, but have not Wen

accurately traced. The measurement of Pliny before

cited must doubtless include the subsequent accre­

tions, both natural and artificial. The binallness of

the area was. however, comjwnsated by the great

height of the houses of Tyre, which were not built

after the eastern fashion, but story upon story,

like those of Aradus, another Phoenician island city

(Mela, ii. 7), or like the insulae of Home. (Strub.

I. c.) Thus a much larger population might be ac­

commodated than the area teems to promise. Bcr-

tou, calculating from the latter alone, estimates the

inhabitants of insular Tvre ut between 22,000 and

23,000. (Topogi: de 7'yr, p. 17.) But the ac­

counts of the capture of Tyre by Alexander, as will

appear in the sequel, show a population of at least

double that number; and it should be recollected

that, from the maritime pursuits of the Tyrians, a

large portion of them must have been constantly

at sea. Moreover, part of the western side of

the island is now submerged, to the extent of more

than a mile; and that this was once occupied by

the city is shown by the bases of columns which

may still be discerned. These remains were much

more considerable in the time of Benjamin of Tn-

dela, in the latter part of the 12th century, who

mentions that towers, markets, streets, and halls

might be observed at the bottom of the sea (p. Cii,

ed. Asher).

Insular Tyre was much improved by king Hiram,

who in this respect was the Augustus of the city.

He added to it one of the inlands lying to the N., by

Biting up tho intervening space. This island, the

outline of which can no longer be traced, previously

contained a temple of Baal, or, according to the Greek

way of speaking, of the Olympian Jupiter. (Joseph.

c. Aj/um, i. 17.) It was by the space thus gained,

us well as by substructions on the eastern side of

the island, that Hiram was enabled to enlarge and

beautify Tyre, and to form an extensive public place,

which the Greeks called Eurychorus. The artificial

ground which Hiram formed fur this purpose may

still be traced by the loose rubbish of which it con­

sists. The frequent earthquakes with which Tyre

lias been visited (Sen. Q. Ar. ii. 26) have rendered

it difficult to trace its ancient configuration; and

alterations have been observed even since the recent

one of 1837 (Kenrick, Phoenicia, p. 353, &c).

The jtowerful navies of Tyre were received and

sheltered in two roadsteads and two harbours, one

on the N., the other on the S. side of the island.

The northern, or Sidonian roadstead, so called be­

cause it looked towards Sidon (Arrian, ii. 20), was

protected by the chain of small islands already men­

tioned. The harbour which adjoined it was formed

by a natural inlet on the NE. tide of the island. On

the N., from which quarter alone it was exposed t«

the wind, it waa rendered secure by two sea-walls

running parallel to each other, at a distance of 100

feet apart, as shown in the annexed plan. Portions

of these walls mav still be traced. The eastern aide

1 L

