ROMA. ROMA. 741

srb snd to riot* to one another that they might

nr Ui exhibit the rest of the city as a mere

i place is considered the most

of all, and has been appro-

ml t> the monuments of the most distinguished

and women. The most remarkable of these is

rolled the Mausoleum, a vast mound near the

'raised upon a lofty base of white stone, and

m4 to ha summit with evergreen trees. Ou the

■ a bronae statue of Augustas: whilst nnder the

aA are the tombs of himself, his relatives, and

aad at the back of it a large grove, affording

atfel promenades. In the middle of the Campus

r rarkated space where the body of Augustus

bant, also constructed of white stone, sur-

dad with an iron rail, and planted in the

« r with poplar trees. Then if we proceed to

aaritat forum, and survey the numerous ha-

r, piwlawwa, and temples which surround it,

"»*> the Capitol and its works, as well as those

■ Palatine and in the portico of Livia, we might

be led to forget all other cities. Such is

> ' (». pp. 235. 236).

swcrer, of this glowing picture, or

from the emphasis which it lays on

of the Campus Martius, whilst the

of the city is stmck oft* with a few light

■a. at mar be suspected that in the time of

seas taa ancient part of Home, with the excep-

ar the immediate vicinity of the forum and

si, cat ant present a spectacle of any great

jnnre. The narrowness and irregularity of

■■wot. taa consequence of the hasty manner in

i tiat city wae rebuilt after its destruction by

still continued to disfigure it in the time

ictftaa, aa is shown by a passage in Livy (v.

uready cited (cf. Tacitus. Aim. xv. 38: " Ob-

wrW artia rtinerihns, bucque et illuc flex is,

^■«rerit«» vicis, qualis renu Roma fait"—that

lav the fire). This defect was not remedied til]

ass Off* ra Use reign of Nero, which forms the

rkable epoch in the history of the city.

lax Cm- tdx tiik Time op Aureuax.

• aadar AVro.—There had been a destructive

±0 mgn of Tiberius, which burnt down all the

aa as that Cadian hill (Tac. Ann. i?. 64); but

with the extensive

The latter, the most de-

r caf tbe kind that had ever happened

ajvocally said by Suetonius (Aero,

caused hy the wilful act of the

r, >rrmo di»gnst at the narrow and winding

Kara aa reperaented by that hietorian as

mi.'car the Barnes with delight from the

< Hi ■ < nae on the Esquiline, and as convert-

-«hjl reality into a sort of dramatic spectacle.  
Bar aa Use fire raged, in proper scenic attire,

»r ;I. r A"> tiic inure judaaanl

, uuewth-rr reject the imputation {Am. lv.

I 1~mm tar* oatranenced al the lower part of

it adjoins the Caeltan

tbops containing combustible

it spread through the whole

«f tiat carcass to the Forum Boarium, and

rtM 0tnmT the whole i'alatine till it was

I ^m feat at the Esquiline. It lasted six

-oral atfrbta, and its extent may be judged

, t~-» taaat est of the fourteen Regions three

II hasiT deals u red, and seven very nearly so,

•»f» thrae escaped altogether untouched.

The three Regions utterly destroyed must have been

the xith, xth, and ivth, or those called Circus

Maximus, I'alatium. and Templum Pacts. The

forum must have suffered considerably, but the Ca­

pitol seems to have escaped, as the Capitoline temple,

after its first destruction in the time of Sulla,

remained entire till bnmt by the Vitellians. The

narrow and crooked streets, and the irregular Vici

of which ancient Rome was composed, rendered it

impossible to arrest the conflagration. Nero was at

Antinm when it broke out, and did not return to

Rome till the flames were threatening his own

palace, which he had not the power to save. This

was the Donuu TramUorh, the domain of which he

had extended from the Palatine to the gardens of

Maecenas on the Esquiline. What chiefly directed

suspicion against Nero, as having wilfully caused

the fire, was the circumstance of its breaking out

afresh in the Aemilian property of his minion

Tigellinns.

Much irreparable loss was occasioned hy this fire,

such as the destruction of several time-honoured

fanes, of many master-pieces of Greek art, besides a

vast amount of private property. Among the vene­

rable temples which perished on this occasion, were

that of Luna, erected by Servius Tullius, the altar

and fane of Hercules in the Forum Boarium, the

temple of Jupiter Stntor, founded by Romulus, those

of Vesta and of the Penates Populi Romani, and the

Regia of Numa. Yet, on the other hand, the fire

made room for great improvements. Nero caused

the town to be rebuilt on a regular plan, with broad

streets, open spaces, and leas lofty houses. All the

buildings were isolated, and a certain portion of each

was constructed with Alban or Gahinian stone, so as

to be proof against fire; to guard against which a

plentiful supply of water was laid on. As a means

of escape and assistance in the same calamity, as

well as for the sake of ornament, Nero also caused

porticoes to be built at his own expense along the

fronts of the insulae. He supplied the proprietors

with money for building, and specified a certain

time by which the houses were to be completed

(Tac. Am. xv. 38—43; Suet. Aero, 38). Thus

Rome sprung a second time from her ashes, in a

style of far greater splendour than before. The new

palace, or damns aurea, of the emperor himself kept

pace with the increased magnificence of the city.

Its bounds comprehended large parks and gardens,

filled with wild animals, where solitude might be

found in the very heart of the city; a vast lake, sur­

rounded with large buildings, filled the valley in

which the Flavian amphitheatre was afterwards

erected ; the palace was of such extent as to have

triple porticoes of a thousand feet ; in the vestibule

stood a colossal figure of Nero himself, 120 feet in

height; the ceilings were panelled, the chambers

gilt, and inlaid with gems and mother-of-pearl; and

the baths flowed both with fresh and sea water.

When this magnificent abode was completed, Nero

vouchsafed to honour it with his qualified approba­

tion, and was heard to observe, " that he was at last

beginning to lodge like a man." (Suet. Nero, 31;

Mart, de Spect. 2.)

Change* under mbteqvent Emperon. — The

two predecessors of Nero, Caligula and Claudius,

did not effect much for the city; and the short

and turbulent reigns of his three successors, Galba,

Otho, and Vitellius, were characterised rather by

destruction than improvement. Caligula indeed per­

fected some of the designs of Tiberius (Suet, tut

3 ii 3

