373 MUTINA. MUTINA.

possession shortly after, at the commencement of the

Second Punic War, n. c. 218. At that period

Mutina must have already been a considerable place

and well fortified; as we are told that, when the

sudden outbreak of the Gauls interrupted the pro­

ceedings of the triumvirs who were appointed to

found the new colony of Placentia, and compelled

them to fly for safety, they took refuge within the

walls of Mutina, which afforded thcin an effectual

protection against the arms of the barbarians. (Liv.

xxi. 25, 26, xxvii. 21 j Pol. iii. 40.) Polybius

calls it at this period a Roman colony; but it seems

probable that this is a mistake; for we have no ac­

count of its foundation as such, nor does Livy ever

allude to Mutina as a colony, where he expressly

notices those of Cremona and Placentia (xxvii. 10).

But whether it had been fortified by the Romans, or

was a regular walled city previously existing (in

which ease it must have been, like its neighbour

Konimia, of Etruscan origin), we have no means of

determining, though the latter supposition is per­

haps the more probable. In any case it continued

to be held by the Romans not only during the Second

Punic War. but throughout the long wars which

followed with the Cisalpine Gauls and Ligurians.

(Lit. xxxv. 4, 6.) It was not till after the final do-

feat of the Boinns in B.C. 191, on which occasion

they were deprived of a large portion of their lands,

that the Romans determined to secure the newly

acquired territory, by planting there the two colonies

of Parma and Mutina, which were accordingly es­

tablished in B.C. 183. (I.iv. xxxix. 55.) They

were both of them "coloniae civium;" so that their

inhabitants from the first enjoyed the full rights of

Roman citizens: 2000 settlers were planted in each,

ami these received 5 jugera each for their portion.

(Liv. L c.) The construction of the great military

high road of the Via Aemilia a few years before,

B.C. 187 (Liv. xxxix. 2), must have greatly facili­

tated the foundation of these new colonies, and

became the chief source of their prosperity.

lint shortly after its foundation Mutina sustained

a severe disaster. The Ligurians, who still oc­

cupied the heights and'valleys of the A pen nines bor­

dering on the Boian territory, in B.c. 177 made a

sudden descent upon tho new colony, and not only

ravaged its territory, but actually made themselves

masters of the town itself. This was, however, re­

covered with little difficulty by the consul C. Clau­

dius, 8000 of the Ligurians were put to the sword,

mnd the colonists re-established in the possession of

Mutina. (Liv. xli. 14. 16.) For a considerable

period after this, we do not again meet with its

name in history; but it appears that it must have

risen rapidly to prosperity, and become one of tho

most flourishing of the towns along the line of the

Via Aemilia. Hence it bears a conspicuous part in

the Civil Wars. When Lepidus, after the death of

Sulla, B.C. 78, raised an insurrection in Cisalpine

Gaul against the senate, Mutina was almost the

only place which was able to offer any resistance to

the arms of Pompeius, and was held against him by

Brutus for a considerable period. (Plut. Pomp.

16.) But it was the siege which it sustained, and

the battles fought in its neighbourhood after the

death of Caesar, n.c 44, that have rendered the

name of Mutina chiefly celebrated in history, and

are referred to by Suetonius under the name of

"Bellmn Mutinense." (Suet. Aug. 9.) On that

occasion I). Brutus, to whom the province of Cisal­

pine Gaul liad been decreed by the senate, threw

himself into Mutina with three legions and a Urn

body of auxiliary troops. Here he was besieged by

M. Antonius with a numerous army; but tlie senate

having declared against the latter, the two consuls,

Hirtius and Pansa, as well as the young Octavian,

were despatched to the relief and succour of Brutus.

(Jan. B.C. 43.) Antonius at this time occupied

Bononia, as well as Parma and Regium, with his

garrisons, while he himself, with the bulk of his

forces, maintained the siege, or rather blockade, of

Mutina. Hirtius on his arrival seised on Clatema,

while Octavian occupied Forum Comelii Q/moii).

From thence they advanced after considerable de­

lays, took possession of Bononia, and approached

Mutina itself, but were unable to open communica­

tions with Brutus. Meanwhile the other eoxsal,

C. Pansa, was advancing with a force of 4 newly

raised legions to their support, when he was at­

tacked by Antonius, at a place called Forum Gal-

lorum, about 8 miles from Mutina on the road to

Bononia. [FoKtiM Uai.i/>kim.] A sevens cat-

test ensued, in which Pansa was mortally wounded;

but the other consul, Hirtius, having fallen oo An­

tony's army in the rear, completely defeated it, and

compelled him to retire to his camp before Mutina. A

second bsttle took place some days afterwards

(April 27, B.C. 43), under the walls of that city, ia

which Hirtius was slain; but the forces of Anttmius

were again worsted, and that general found himself

compelled to abandon the siege (which had now

lasted for above four months), and retire westward,

with a view of crossing the Alps. (Appian, B. C.

iii. 49—51, 61, 65—72; Dion Cass. xlvi. 36—88)

Cic. ad l'am. x. 11, 14, 30, 33, PhiL r.—viii.;

Veil. Pat ii. 61; Suet. Aug 10.)

Mutina was evidently at this period a flonrwfaing

and important town, as well as strongly fortified.

Cicero calls it "firmissima et splendidissima popoii

Romani colonia" (PkU. v. 9); and these praises are

confirmed by Appian (B. C. iii. 49), who calls it

"a wealthy city," as well as by the fact, that it was

capable of supporting so large an army as tint of

Brutus for so long a time. Mela, also, singles oct

Mutina, together with Bononia and Patavium, a* tb*

most opulent cities in this part of Italy. (Mela, H.4.

§ 2.) The same inference may fairly be drawn

from the circumstance, that it was at Mutina the

numerous body of senators who had accompanied

the emperor Oiho from Rome, in A. u. 69, remained,

while Otho himself advanced to meet the generals of

Vitellius, and where they very nearly fell victims to

the animosity of the soldiery, on the first newt of n»

defeat and death. (Tar. Hist. ii. 52 — 54.) Bat

with this exception, we meet with scarcely any

mention of Mutina under the Roman empire until

a late )<eri<xl, though the still extant iiiM-riptieea

attest tho fart of its continued prosperity. Some

of these give to the city the title of Colonia. as

do also Mela andll'liny. (Mela, L c..; I'ltn. in. 15.

s. 20; Cavedoni, Marmi Mmuittsi, pp. 120, 185.)

We learn also from Pliny and Slrabo, that it erne

famous for the excellence of the wool produced ia

its territory, as well as for its wine, aad Us*

city itself possessed considerable manafortnres >i

earthenware, as well as woollen goods. (Strab. v.

p. 218; Plin. xiv. 3. a. 4, xxxv. 18. s. 46, Colmn.

vii. 2. J 3.)

In a. i). 312, Mutina was taken by Cnnstantim

during his war with Maxentius, but sppean to li*«*

suffered but little on this occasion. ( Naxar. /taey.

27.) Before the dose of the century, howaver, beta

