LIGER. 183 LIGUniA.

gri," for the ablative also occur in Caesar's text.

The form Atyttp occurs in Ptolemy (ii. 7. § 2), and

in Stepbanus Byz. (i. v. B«'x«p), who has also

Aiyvpjs (s. v. Afyvpts'), with a remark that the

Ligures, who border on the Tyrrhem, derive their

name from the river Ligyrus. Dion Casaius (xxxix.

40, xiiv. 42 ; and the notes of Rennarus), has the

*horter form Aiypos. Lucan (i. 438) is generally  
cited as authority for the Roman quantity of the word:

"In nebulis Meduana tuis marcerc pcrosus

And u» jam placida Ligeris recreatur ab unda."

But these verses are spurious. (See the Notes in

Oailondorp's edition.) According to Strubo, the

Loire rUes in the Cecennes (ra, Kefificva), and

fc-ws into the ocean. But he is mistaken as to the

coarse of the Loire, for lie makes both the Garumna

aid the Ligyr flow parallel to the Pyrenees; and he

was farther mistaken in supposing the axis of the

Pyrenees to be south and north. [Gallia Tkans-

AU-iXA, voL i. p. 949.] He estimates the navigable

purl of each river at 2000 stadia; but the Loire is

a much longer river than the Caroline. He says

that the Loire flows past Genabum {Orleans), and

that Genabum is situated about half way between

the commencement of the navigable part of the river

and its outlet, which lies between the territory of the

Piciones on the south, and the territory of the

Nanmetes on the north; all which is correct enough.

(Strab. iv. pp. 189, 190, 191.) He adds that there

was a trailing place (ifiiroptiov), named Corbilo

[Corbilo], on the river, which Polybius speaks of.

It appears that Strabo did not distinguish the Elaver

(AUter) from the Loire, for he says: "the Arverni

are situated on the Liger, and their chief city is

Nemossus, which lies on the river; and this river,

flowing past Genabum, the trading town of the Car­

dites, which is situated about the middle of the

Mvigable part, discharges itself into the ocean"

(p. 191). But Nemossus is near the Allier.

Cae>ar was acquainted both with the Elaver (vii.

34, 35) and the river properly called the Loire.

He crossed the Elaver on his march to Gergovia.

[Geeoovia.] He remarks that the Allier una not

generally fundable before the autumn; and in another

place (B. G. vii 55) he describes his passage over

the Loire at a season when it was swollen by the

melted snow. When Caesar was preparing for his

iaral warfare with the Veneti, he had ships built

«i the Loire. (B. G. iii. 9.) He does not tell us

where he built them, but it may have been in the

country of the Andes or Andecavi, which be held at

that time.

Of the four passages which were made in Strabo's

time from Gallia to Britannia, one was from the

ttwrnth of the Ijoire; and this river was one line of

carmrtfTcia] communication between the Provincia

arxl Britannia. Goods were taken by land from the

rruvineia to the Loire, and then carried down the

Loire. (Strab. it. p* 189.) Pliny (iv. 18) calls the

hxre "tinmen cl.irum,"* which Eorbiger explains

by the word* "clear stream;" but this does not

»»*m to be what Pliny means. Tibullus (i. 7,11)

ays,

"Testis Arar Rhodanusque celer magnusque Ga­

rumna,

Caranti et flavi caerula lympha Liger."

This seems to be all that the ancient geographers

have >ayl of the Loire. The Klaver (Allirr) rises

u Hnna Lennra (Mont iAtzere), not very far from

the source of the Loire, and on the north-west side

of the Cevennes. It flows north through the fertile

Limagne dAuvergne, and after a course of about

200 miles joins the Loire at Noviodunum or Ne-

virnum (Nevers). The Loire rises in Mont Mezcne,

and flows north to its junction with the Allier in a

valley between the valley of the AlUer and the basin

of the Rlione. From Never* the course of the Loire

is north-west to Genabum (Orleans); and from

Orleans it has a general west course to the ocean,

whicli it enters below Nantes. The whole length of

the river is above 500 miles. Several large rivers

flow into it on the left side below Orleans; and the

Mayenne on the right side below Tours. The area

of this rjver-basin is 50,000 square miles, or as

much as the area of England. The drainage from

this large surface passes through one channel into

the sea, and when the volume of water is increased

by great rains it causes inundations, and does great

damage [G. L.~l

Ll'GUEES. [Ltguria.]

LI'GURES BAEBIA'Nl ET COENELIA'NI

[ Hi r rati.]

LIGU'KIA (Aiyovpia, Ptol.;butin earlier Greek

writers always rj Aiyuo-rticf): the people were

called by the Greeks Aryves, but by later writers

Atyvtrrlvoi: by the Romans Ligures; but the ad­

jective form is Ligustinus), one of the provinces

or regions of Northern Italy, extending along the N.

coast of the Tyrrhenian sea, from the frontiers of

Gaul to those of Etruria. In the more precise and

definite sense in which the name was employed from

the time of Augustus, and in which it is used by the

geographers (Strabo, Pliny, Ptolemy, &c), Liguria

was bounded by the river Varus on the W., and by

the Macra on the E., while towards the N. it extended

across the chain of the Maritime Alps and Apennines

as far as the river Padua. The Trebia, one of the

confluents of the Padus on its right bank, appears to

have formed the limit which separated Liguria from

Gallia Cispadana. In this sense, Liguria constituted

the ninth region of Italy, according to the division

of Augustus, and its boundaries were fixed by that

monarch. (Pint. iii. 5. s. 7; Strab. v. p. 218; Mel.

ii. 4. § 9; Ptol. iii, 1. § 3.)

But Liguria, in its original sense, as "the land

of the Ligurians," comprised a much more exten­

sive tract. All the earliest authors are agreed in

representing the tribes that occupied the western

slopes of the Maritime Alps and the region which

extends from thence to the sea at Massilia, and as

far as the mouths of the Rhone, as of Ligurian,

and not Gaulish origin. Thus Aeschylus repre­

sents Hercules as contending with the Ligurians

on the stony plains near the mouths of the Rhone,

Herodotus speaks of Ligurians inhabiting the country

above Massilia, and Hecataeus distinctly calls Mas­

silia itself a city of Liguria, while he terms Narbo a

city of Gaul. Scylax also assigns to the Ligurians

the coast of the Mediterranean sea as far as the

mouths of the Rhone; while from that river to

Emporium in Spain, he tells us that the Ligurians

and Iberians were intermingled. The Helisyci, who,

according to Avienus, were the earliest inhabitants

of the country around Narbo, were, according to

Hecataeus, a Ligurian tribe. (Aeschyl. ap. Strab.

iv. p. 183; Hccat. Fr. 19, 20, 22, ed. Klausen;

Herod, v. 9; Scyl.p.2. §§3,4; Avien. Or. MariL

584; Strab. iy. p. 203.) Thucydides also speaks

of the Ligurians having expelled the Sicanians, an

Iberian tribe from the banks of the river Siconus, in

n4

