358 MINAEI. MINAEI.

marks, in direct opposition to Gosselin, tliat Bnehart,

in placing them at Carno-l-Mnnazuli (I. Karn-

et-Maglital), only 3 stations S. of Mecca, which lie

supposes to be the Carna or Carana of l'liny,

brings them too far to the X., for that " Ptolemy

places them much farther S." (J'eripliu, cap.

xxvii. p. 363, anil note 254.) But M. Jomard

holds that Wady Mina, to the S. (?) of Mecca, cor­

responds with the ancient Minaci: the distance to

Ada he computes as 10J decrees, or 294 hours

(ap. Mengin. Uutoire de VHgypte, <fc. p. 377).

Mr. Forster assigns them a wide extent of territory

in the modern provinces of lledjaz, Sedjd, and

Yemen, even to the borders of I/adramauL '■ The

scat of this great commercial people, who divided

with the Gerraei the commerce of the peninsula

(transported by D'Anville to the heart of Yemen,

and by Vincent to the country of the Atyr Arabs),

assuredly lay, if any reliance whatever may be

placed in the position of 1'tolemy, in an inland

direction KSK. of Mecca. For the Minaei, according

to liitn, lay immediately S. of the '• regio interior

myrrifera;" and this, again, was situated due S. of

the Manit.ie. The Manitac being the same with the

Mezeyne, this description would identify the " in­

terior myrrifera" with the fruitful mountain region

E. of Tayf. and the Minaei. consequently, with the

great Atrybc. tribe described by Burrkliardt, as the

most numerous of the tribes of lledjaz, and in­

habiting the rich inland country stretching eastward,

under those mountains, from Lye and Kohikh to

Ttiraba." {Arabia, vol. ii. pp. 251, 252.) He adds,

in a note(*),"' Its site (viz. that of the ' interior myr­

rifera'). with that of its inhabitants,'the Minaei,

may be determined independently, by the concurrent

testimonies of 1'tolemy and Piiny: the former places

his Chargatha [XaoidtJa, l'al. Xap-ydfla], and the

latter his Karriata, in conjunction with the Minaei.

The town thus denominated is clearly that of

Kariatam; but Kariatain is seated beneath, or

rather upon, the mountains of Tayf." Having thus

determined their northern lwrder " S. of KariaUtin,

or in the plains below the mountain chain running

EXE. from Tayf," he tlms defines their southern

limits. "On the S., according to Ptolemy, the Minaei

were bounded by the l>oreni and the Mokeretae. It

is impossible to mistake, in the Doreni, the inhabit­

ants of Zokran, or in the Mokeretae, those of

Mrkhra, two adjoining provinces, lying S. of Mecca

and Tayf, and crossing the entire space between the

sea and the uninhabited desert. This decisive veri­

fication shuts in the ancient Minaei between the

mountains of Zohran and Mekhra, and those X.

of Tayf" (p. 255). "The chief towns, the territory,

and tilt; national habits of the Minaei, as described

by the ancient geographers, bear a remarkable

correspondence to those of the ^4 taybe Arabs, the

present inhabitants of this district; and the coinci­

dence of the palm-groves, and other fruit-trees of

the Minaei, and their wealth in cattle, noticed by

Pliny, with the excellent pasture-grounds, the great

abundance of camels and sheep, possessed by the

powerful tribe of Ateybe, and with the plantations

fur which Taraba is remarkable, that furnish all the

surrounding country with dates, environed, as

Burckhardt describes both it and Tayf lohe, 'with

palm-groves and gardens, watered by numerous

rivulets,' must be allowed to corroborate, in a very

remarkable manner, this verification of the ancient

seats of the Minaei." (Forster, Arabia, vol. ii.

Jip. 254—257.)

Mr. Forster further identifies the principal

of the Minaei (the Carman Regis of Itolerny)

with Karti-al-Mniixil, a considerable town still Bo

being between 7'««y'and Mrkka; . . . and Caroon

with Karn-al-Mayial, upon the mountains S. <«°

Tayf; which former Bochart had already identified

w4th the Carna or Carana of Pliny. "The tile of

their capital, within a few miles of Wady J/ma

[immediately to the E. of Mrkka']. suggests ii*- r.'4

improbable derivation of their name from that fam-ru

seat of the idolatry of ancient Arabia" (p.254 nutrf);

an hypothesis in which, it hss been seen, JteiLani uaa-

cides. But, though fixing the original and prioriul

seat of the Minaei in the S. of the Hnljnz, he thinks

"it still is certain, from Pliny's statement, that tins

people possessed a key to the commerce of the

incense countiy, by having obtained the command >«*

one of the two passes into the Djebnl-rxl-Kamrrr"

(which is in the heart of lladramatit): and he hence

infers that they possessed one of the two ernpnriun.i

of the trade in incense and myrrh, mentioned ly

Pliny, on the southern coast; "an inference which at

once conducts us to Thauane or Doan [NE. of Rom

FartaU], and to the mountain pass immntiafrlr

behind it" (p. 258, comp. voL i p. 135, 136). The

arguments in proof of this jiosition, sisl of the con­

nection of the Minaei with the Joktanite patriarch

Jerah, which cannot be considered as convincing,

are fully stated and enforced by Mr Forster with

his usual ingenuity (vol. i. pp. 128—136); bat it

is an unfortunate circumstance that lie has removed

the central seat of this tribe,—descended, scDanling

to this hypothesis, from "the father of Yemen,*—

into the territory of llrdjnz and for Sedjd; he main­

tains that, "from E. to W. the Minaei slretihed

the entire breadth of the peninsula, their eastern

frontier touching the Gerrheans, on tbe frrnam

Gulf; while Carman Regis, now Karn-al- i/a^zH.

their metropolis, is seated only 21 leagues KSK- of

Mekka, in the great province of Al-Kardje ar

lcmama" vol. i. p. lxviii )

The question of the position of the Minaeaes

lias been investigated by M. Fresnel with a widVIy

different result. (Journal Ariatique, 3uie J*' it.

tome x. pp. 90 — 96, 176—200.) He Connors

them to the antral ]<art of Yemen, and den**

their connection cither with W'atly J/mo, near

Mrkka, or with Mannh, an idol of the H «*lhav-

lides and the KhouziTdes, between Mtkla aid

Medina. He regards the name a* a |»*rjb> or.

ruption of Yeinrnaei, the first syllable being oss-

vertcd into the Greek article, in its tnuisnutaf-o

from one language to another; but suggests alee

another derivation of the name from the patriarch

Ayman, found in tbe native genealogies third ia

descent from Saba. In continuation of the former ety­

mology, he maintains that tbe name )"mni,whirs now

comprehends the eastern quarter of Southern Arabia,

was formerly proper to the centra] portion of that

province. He thinks that the capital of the Huxvi

—the Carna or Carana of Strata, the Csnsa of

Pliny, identical, also, with the Carman Keg-a ef

Ptolemy (to which that geographer assigns too aura

a latitude, as he does also the Miiuu-i)—is to be

found in the A I-Kant of IIW* /Hws, fivw ar

six dsys X.. or, according to another authiw-uv,

| WNW-, of MukaUak. Their other town, Manaa*

Baramalacuui. he places in the same valley. [hLa-

i HI aha, 2.] The position thus assigned to Carna ia

the Wady Doim, enables us to fix the extent of the

I territory of the Minaei between the >->~-"' asal

