028 PICENUM. PICENTM.

called Flaminia, aul the two together constituted a

province which comprised all the strip of Umbria

along the coast of the Adriatic, as well us the terri­

tory of the Sabines, Vestini, Peligni, ami Marst.

Hence we find the Liber Coloniartun including the

whole of this extensive district under the name of

Picenum, and enumerating not only Alba and Nursia,

hut even Momentum, Kidenae, and Tibur, among the

"civitates Piceni." {Lib. Cohm. p. 252—259.)

But this arrangement did not last lout:. Flaminia

and Valeria were again separated from Picenum, and

that province was subdivided into two: the one called

"Picenum snburbioarium," or simply Picenutn,

which was the original district of that name, corre­

sponding tothe Fifth Kegion of Augustus; while the

name of M Fieenum Annonarium" was given to tiie

tract from the Aesis to the Rubicon, which had been

originally known as the " Gallicus Ager," and in the

days of Augustus was comprised under the name of

Umbria. (Lib. Cohm. pp. 225—227; Mommsen,

Die Lib. Col. pp. 208—214; NotU. J%n. ii. pp. 64,

Ii5j Bucking ad Not pp. 432, 443; P. Diac. ii.

19.)

In the wars between the Goths and the generals

of Justinian, IVenum repeatedly became the imme­

diate theatre of hostilities. Auximum in particular,

which was at this time the chief city or capital of

t he province, was regarded as one of the most im­

portant fortresses in Italy, and withstood for a long

time the arms of Belisarius. (Procop. Ji. G. ii. 10,

23—27.) After the expulsion of the Goths, Picc-

niim became one of the provinces of the exarchate of

Ravenna, and as such continued subject to the Greek

mirrors until the final downfal of the exarchs. It

was at this periixl that arose the geographical desig­

nation of the Peutapolis, for a province which com­

prised the greater part of Picenum, together with

the maritime district of Umbria as far as Ariminum.

The province of this name was one of those bestowed

on the see of Koine by king Pepin after the defeat

of the Lombard king Astolphus (a. i>. 754), and

has ever since continued to form part of the States

'if the Church.

Picenuni is a district of great fertility and beauty.

Extending in a broad hand of nearly uniform width

from the central ranges of the Apennines, which form

its boundary on the W., and which here attain then-

greatest elevation in the Monte Conu> and Monti

ft* I la Sibilla, it slopes gradually from thence to t he

sea ; the greater part of this apace being occupied

by great hills, the undorfalJs of the more lofty Apen­

nines, which in their more elevated regions are clothed

with extensive forests, while the lower slojtes produce

abundance of fruit-trees and olives, as well as good

wine and corn. (Strah. v. p. 240; Liv. xxii. 9.)

Both Horace and Juvenal extol the excellence of its

apples, and Pliny tells us its olives were among the

choicest in Italy. (Hot. Sat. ii. 3. 272, 4. 70;

Jur. xi. 72; Plin. xv. 3. s. 4.) The whole district

is furrowed by numerous streams, which, descending

with great rapidity from the lofty ranges of the

Apennines, partake much of a torrent-like character,

but nevertheless serve to irrigate t\w whole country,

which is thus rendered one of the pleasantcst in Italy.

These streams pursue nearly parallel courses, the di­

rect distance from their sources to the sea in no case

much exceeding 40 miles. They are, proceeding

from S. to N.. as follows : (1) The M.VTiusrs. now

called La Ftomba, a small stream which formed the

vmheni limit of Picenum, separating it from the

territory of the Vestini; (2) the VoHABUS, still

on fa

be ti

tfT t*»

-ooi Cav

called the Vvmant), which st pirated the district *f

Adria from that of the Praetutii; (3) the Bativn

now called the Tordino, but sometimes *W> tf*

Trontino, which flows by Teramo (Intoanua);

(4)theTm:KNTi\s (Tronto), the most considerable!*

all these streams, which Hows under the •■Ik ef

Ascoli (Asculum); (5) the Tinna. still oiled ■

Tenna ; (6) the FltjsoR, now the Chienti; (7) tit

Potkntia, still called the Polmza; (8) ibe Mwo

or Jlisius, now known as the Musont. These H

names are known only from the Tabula: on tfce

other hand Pliny mentions a stream called ALsru.

to which are added in some MSS. the namei d

Sninus and Helvinns. All these are placid apfe-

rently between the river Trucntus and the wwaef

Cupra Maritima; but Itesides the uncertainty of At

reading, the whole description oi* this region in FSsf

is so confused that it is very unsafe to rely open I*"

order of enumeration. The Albula cannot be f

tified with any certainty, hut may perhaps I

stream now called the Salinello, and the other 1

names are probably mere corruptions. 9. The Aj

(£rmo), a much more considerable stream,!

into the sea between Ancona and Sena Galttca,*

the boundary which separated Picenum fnan X

bria.

The towns of Picenum are numerous, and, I

the accounts of the populousness of the coontrjfi

early times, were probably many of them oceeefll

siderablc, but few have any historical rekfariM

Those on the sea-coast (proceeding as befire 'rm

S. to N.) were: (1) Matiuxlm, at the mouth of W

river of the same name, serving a> the pen of AM)

(Strab. v. p. 241); (2) Castrcm N.atm. ar*

mouth of the Batinus, ix"ar Giulia A'twea;

tbum Truentincm or Tri estum, at the i

of the river of the same name ; (4) Ccr*A 1

tima, at Le Grotle a Mare, about 3 miles

S. Benedetto; (5) Castkcm Firmanum. now j

di Fermo, at the mouth of the little river ,

(fi) Poi entia (Sta Maria a Potenza\ at the i

of the river of the same name; (7) Sen

called Umana, at the southern

mountain headland called Monte Cot

Axcona, at the northern end of the

tory. This last was by far the most

the maritime towns of Picennm, and tha i

that possessed a port worthy of the name: witfaj

exception all the most important cities f the i

were situated inland, on hills of considerable dfl

tion, and thus enjoyed the advantage of atres^fl

sitions as fortresses. The most important of itf

were ArxiMi M (Osimo), about 12 miles S. <fM

cona; Cixgulum (Cinffoli), in a very lofty sfl

tion, between the valleys of the Acsis and EVcjssfl

KiKMt'M (Fenno), on a hill about 6 miles irvmrn

sea ; Asct'i.L'M (Ascoli), the ancient capital »af

num, in a very strong situation on the river Tm

tus, about 22 miles from its mouth: lxraataJ

(Teramo), the chief city of the Praetatat ; ^

Adria (Atri), almost close to the fouthem 1

of Picenum. The minor towns in the inTerisj

Berbgra, which may perhaps be placed at CI

di Tronto, not far from Ascoli; Cl'PKA I

so called to distinguish it from the 1

the same name, supposed to have occupied taae \

HijMtransom■■■ Cll ana. at 5. Flpidio a Mm

4 miles from the sea, and a little to the N.

Novana, proliably at Monte di Xo\

FaLXKIA (Fallcrtme). in the upper r«a

Tinna; Uiiua Salvia (CrbL<a$tia) and'

