HOMA. 841 HOMA.

rtbt W., whence it stretches in a southerly direc­

ts to a pjint opposite the Aventine. The mas-

liist form of the name (Janiculus), though em-

krrd m a substantive by some modern writers,

•ift= l'» n»t «n no classical authority, and can only

- i'lrwtd u an adjective form with nvm* or colli*.  
Utiw, Ilmvlb. p. 653 ) The name Janiculum is

aiUr derived from Janus, who ia said to have had

iwr or citadel here. (Ov. Fast. i. 245; Macrob.

- 7.) As the ridge runs in a tolerably straight  
'teariT due 8. from the point where it Com­

oro, die curve described by the Tiber towards

> I. laves a considerable plain between the river

i tie hiil, which attains ita greatest breadth at the

M opposite to the Forum Boarium. This was

i wirifflal Rkgio Trajistiberisa. It appears

Utr hen covered with buildings long before the

•"t Aagutus, and was principally inhabited by

Uir classes, especially fisliermen, tanners, and

i ke. though it contained some celebrated gar-

'Hence the Ludi Piteatorii were held in this

Bier. (Or. Fast vi. 237; Fest. pp. 210, 238.)

ru the ancient Ckctto, or Jews' quarter, which

i bo opposite to it. (I'hilo, de VirL ii. p. 568,

mr.)

!>• Kitio Transtiberina contained but few tem-

i•rather public buildings. Of the temple of

u foKTiWA we have already spoken when dis-

■ag tat question respecting that of Pudicitia

vu [supra, p. 814]. Of other loci rtligiosi

is iiurter little more is known than the name,

ivutbt Ll*CT» Ft'RisAK, mentioned in the nar-

• «f the death of C. Gracchus. (Aur. Vict.

IU. ti; Pint. C. Gracch. 17.) Cicero con-

"1 'his grove with the Knmenides, or Furies

t Iker. iii. 18); but there is no account of

< Attic deities having been naturalised at Home,

"tbooM rather infer from Varro that the

• waa consecrated to aome ancient indigenous

re. (i. U ri. § 19, Mull.) It was a uni-

tradition that Nunia waa buried in the Jani-

n(IHonya. iL 76; Plut Num. 22; Val. Max.

$ 12). Cicero, in a corrupt jKissiige, places his

'hand rrocul a Fotnt Aha" (or Fontis

I («V Lea. ii. 22); but of such a deity or altar

nt oo further account. We also find a Leers

'i«"ntt>i DivARt M mentioned by Paulus

«u(p. 64, Mull.) as "trans Tiberim;" but

ra the names of tbrse goddesses are also found

■ laarription (CJruter, lxxxviii. 14), what they

'»'i»>t be told. Lastly, as the Basis Ca­

ts records a Virt s Larch Huraulm in this

rt w* may conclude that they bad a saceUum

**>( the profane places trans Tiberim were  
•icia Pkata and the field called Codeta.

Froer—the land given to Mucius Saevola by

ratfeaa a reward of his valour (I.iv. ii. 13)

w, hiieeiei, have Iain beyond the district now

t Baatdrration, and probably farther down the

'. The Cadets, or .\ Codetanus, was so

ifnra a plant that grew there resembling a

• tail (coda) (Paul Diac. pp. 38 and 58,

\ — Bo doubt the Equisetis, or Equisetum

*v of Linnaeus. (" Invisa et equisetis eat, a

line aquinae setae," Plin. xviii. 67. s. 4.)

> Mam to have been a Codeta Major and a

r, i.r.fj Suetonius relates that Caesar exhibited

•i. aasaat in the Utter, where he had formed

I (* *■ minora Codeta defosso lacu," Cars. 39)

Caaiia, oo the other band, represents this

naumachia as taking place in the Campus Martins

(xliii. 23). Becker (l/andb. p. 656, note) would

reconcile these divergent accounts by assuming that

the Codeta Minor lay in the Campus Martins, and

the Codeta Major oppisito to it, on the other side of

the Tiber. (Cf. Prcller, Eeyionen, p. 218.) But

there seem to be some grave objections to this as­

sumption. It is not probable that two places

bearing the same name should have been on different

sides of the river, nor that there should have been a

marshy district, as the Codeta evidently was, in the

Campus Martius, in the time of Caesar. Besides,

had the latter contained a place called Codeta Minor,

— which must have been of considerable size to

afford room for the exhibition of a naval combat,—

we should surely have heard of it from some other

source. Becker adduces, in proof of his view,

another passage from Suetonins (/&. c. 44), from

which it appears that Caesar contemplated building

a magnificent temple of Mars, on the site of the

lake, after causing it to be filled up ; a project, how­

ever, which does not Beem to have been carried into

execution. Becker assumes that this temple must

of course have been in the Campus Martius; though

on what grounds does not appear, as we have al­

ready seen that there was a temple of Mars a long

way outside the Porta Capena, besides a subsequent

one in the forum of Augustus. We are, therefore,

of opinion, that the word 'Ap«(», in Dion Cassius,

must be a mistake either of his own, or of his

copyists, and that the Campus Codetanus of the

Nvtitia must have lain rather below the city, on

the right bank of the Tiber. (Cf. Canina, Indie.

p. 566, seq.) The Notitia mentions a Campus

Brcttiani;.s in connection with the Campus Code­

tanus, but what it was cannot be said. Some have

conjectured that it was called after the Bruttii, who

were employed at Home as public servants. (Paul.

Diac p. 31.)

Near the same spot must have been the Horti

Caksaris, which Caesar bequeathed to the Koman

people. (Suet. Cars. 83; Tac. Ann. ii. 41; Cic.

I'hil. ii. 42.) According to Horace, they must have

lain at some distance:—

"Trans Tiberim longe cubat is, prope Cnesaris

hortos." (Hat. i. 9. 18.)

And it may be inferred from the situation of the

I'Ksiri.E ok Foils Fortlna, which we have

already discussed [supra, p. 814], that they must

have been at about a utile's distance from the Porta

Portuensis. (Fast. Amit. VIII. Kal. Jul.) It seems

probable that they were connected with the Nemus

Caesarum, where Augustus exhibited a naumaehiaf

and where a grove or garden was afterwards laid

out. (" Navalis proelii spectaculum populo dedi

trans Tiberim, in quo loco nunc nemus est

Caesarum," Man. Ancyr.) This would rather tend

to confirm the view that the codeta was in this neigh­

bourhood. In Tacitus (Ann. xii. 56: " Ut quondam

Augustus structo cis Tiberim stagno ") we are there­

fore probably to read uls for cm, which ancient form

seems to have been retained in designating the

Transtiberine district (" Dicebatur cis Tiberim et

uls Tiberim," Aul. Cell. xii. 13; cf. Varr. I..L. v.

§ 83, Mull.; Pompon. Dig. i. tit. 2.1. 2. § 31.) The

Nemus Caesarum seems to have been so called from

Caius and Lucius Caesar. (Dion Cass. lxvi. 25.)

Wc arc not to suppose that it occupied the site

of the lake excavated for the naumachia, but was

planted round it as wc learn from Tacitus (—" apud

