TRITON'. TROAS. 1233

>ii Tirraconensis, an the river Dcva or Derates.

[Mek, iii. 1.) It is commonly identified with

1 ... winch, however, does not lie on the Deva;

ad Manner! (i. p. 365) seeks it near ilondragon,

□ Guiputcoa. [T. II. D.]

TIUTON" (oTpiTWK wotomoj, Plol. iv. 3. § 19,

ic),t river of Libya, forming, according; to Ptolemy,

M boundary of the Kegio Syrtica towards the W. It

ni in Mount Vaulaetus, and, flowing in a northerly

firKtioo, passed through three lakes, the Libya

I'alus, ibe lake Pallaa, and the lake Tritonitis (h

•»..:•< Ai'msii, 76.); after which it fell into the

■ in the innennost part of the Syrtis Minor he-

«rcn Macoinada and Tacape, bat nearer to the

»'t«.

The lake TritonitU of Ptolemy is called, how-

ver, by other writers Tritonis TptruvU Alunj,

lenaj. ir. 179). Herodotus secma to confound it

'ilk the Lesser Syrtis itself; but Scylax (p. 49),

bo give* it a circumference of 1000 stadia, de-

tribes it as connected with the Syrtis by a narrow

feoing, and as surrounding a small island,—that

died by Herodotus (i6. 178) Phla (♦Aa), which

> aU> mentioned by Strabo (xrii. p. 836), as con-

uaiiij a temple of Aphrodite, and by Dionysiu*.

I'rriej. 267.) This lake Tritonis is undoubtedly

ie present SchibkaH-ti-Lovdjuh, of which, accord-

e to Shaw « /,-.,»,',, i. p. 237), the other two

»c* are merely parts; whilst the river Triton is

« present Kl-JIammah. This river, indeed, is no

connected with the lake (Shaw, 76.); a

^umstance, however, which affords no essential

wind for doubting the identity of the two streams;

•ce in those regions even larger rivers are some-

oea compelled hy the quicksands to alter their

'arse. (Cf. Kilter, Erdkmdc, i. p. 1017). Scylax

t) mentions also another island called Trilonos

Kiran-oi) in the Syrtis Minor, which last itself is,

rording to him, only part of a large Sinus Tri-

■ites (TprrarWrnj a-oAs-or).

Same writers confound the lake Tritonis with tho

r of tlie Hesperides, and seek it iu other districts

Libya; sometimes in Mauretania, in the neigh-

r'l.'vd of Mount Atlas and the Atlantic Ocean,

aetitnea in Cyrenaica near Berenice and the river

Liico or I<eluon. The latter hypothesis is adopted

Lucan (ix. 346, seq.), the former by Diodorus

olus (iii. 53). who also attributes to it an island

soiled by the Amazons. But Strabo (/. c.)

sriaUyr distinguishes the lake of the Hesperides

■ the lake Tritonis.

\ ith this lake is connected the question of the

net Tritogeneia, applied to Pallas as early as the

• of Homer and Hesiod. But though the Li-

D river and lake were much renowned in an-

t times (cC Aeschyl. Aion. 293; Eurip. Ivn,

. se«i.; l'md. J"yth. iv. 36, &c), and the appli-

■n of the name of Pallas to the lake connected

i the Tritouis seems to point to these African

rra aa having given origin to the epithet, it

svertheless meet probable that the brook Triton

AlalcomenM in Boeotia has the best pretrn-

a to that distinciion. (Cf. Pausan. ix. 33. § 5;

)L ad A potion. Mod i. 109, iv. 1315; Muller,

hununot, p- 355; Leake, Northern Greta,

ii. p. 13G, aeq.; Kruse, JJtilat, vol. ii. pt. 1

75. [T. H. D ]

UTOH (T/MTew, Died. t. 72), a river of Crete

e source of which Athene was said to have been

From its) connection with the Omphaliau

, it ia idenlilied with the river discharging

itself into the sea on the X. coast of the island

which is called PUityprramn, but changes its name

to Gkuifiro as it approaches the shore. (Pasliley,

TrartU. vol, i. p. 225.) [E. B. J.]

TRITON (TpiTsM-), a river of Boeotia. [Vol. L

p. 413, a.]

TRITURRITA. [Pisae.]

TRIVICUM (Trerico), a town of Samnium, in

the country of the Hirpini, not fur from the frontiers

of Apulia. Its name is known to us only from

Horace, who slept there (or at least at a villa in

its immediate neighbourhood) on his well-known

journey to Brundusium. (II r. Sat. i. 5. 79.) It

appears therefore that it was situate! on the Via

Appia, or the line of road then frequented from

Rome to Brundusiam. But this was not the

same which was followed in later times, and is

given in the Itineraries under that name, a cir­

cumstance which has given rise to much confusion

in the topography of this part of Italy. [Via

Ar-rtA.] There ran be no doubt that Trivicum

occupied nearly, if not exactly, the same site with

the modern Trtvico: the ancient road appears to

have passed along the valley at the foot of the hill

on which it was situated. It was here that stood

the villa to which Horace alludes, and some remains

of Roman buildings, as well as of the pavement of

the ancient road, still visible in the time of I'ratilli,

served to mark the site more accurately. (I'ratilli.

Via Appia, iv. 10. p. 507; Romanelli, vol. ii. p.

350.) It probably never was a municipal town, as

its name is not mentioned by any of the geo­

graphers. [E. H. B.]

TRIUMPILI'NI, an Alpine people of Northern

Italy, who are mentioned by Augustus in the in­

scription in which he recorded the final subjugutiou

of the Alpine tribes (ap. Plin. iii. 20. s. 24). It

appears from Pliny that the whole people was re­

duced to slavery and sold together with their lunds.

According to Cato they were of Euganean race, is

well as their neighbours the Camuui, with whom

they are repeatedly mentioned in common. (Plin.

L c.) Henco there is little doubt that they were

the inhabitants of the district still called VtU

Trompia, the upper valley of the Mtlla, and

serrated only by an intervening ridge of moun­

tains from the Yal Cumonica, the land of the

Cainuni. [E. H. B.]

TROAS (Tpexit, Town, Tpola, or 'IAiar yv), the

territory ruled over by the ancient kings of Troy or

Ilium, which retained its ancient and venerable namo

even at a time when the kingdom to which it had

originally belonged had long ceased to exist. Homer

himself nowhere describes the extent of Troas or its

frontiers, and even leaves us in the dark as to how

far the neighbouring allies of the Trojans, such as

the Dardanians, who were governed by princes of

their own, of the family of Priam, were true allies

or subjects of the king of Ilium. In later times,

Troas was a part of Mysia, comprising the coast

district on the Aegean from Cape Lectum to the

neighbourhood of llardanua and Abydus on the Hel­

lespont; while inland it extended about 8 geograph-

ical miles, that is, as far as Mount Ids, so as to

embrace the south coast of Mysia opposite the island

of Lesbos, together with the towns of Ass us and

Antandrus. (Horn. IL xxiv. 544; Herod, vii. 42.)

Strabo, from his well-known inclination to magnify

the empire of Troy, describes it as extending from the

Aesopua to the Caicus, and his view is adopted by t he

Scholiast on Apollonius Rhodius (i. 1115). In its

4 K

IU u.

