SARMATIA. SARMATIA. 919

a net aide, ind the Quadi, Stc, of the Regnum

Vumimum, on too other. In the general I'annonian

at Dalmatian outbreak of a. IX 6, the Sarmatians

i line parti took a share (Veil. Pat it 110), as they,

I'gkWsJt, did in the immediately previous war of

he MarnRnssni, under Maioboduus; the Marco-

aum, Quadi, Jazyges, and western Daci, and

artnatae being generally united, and, to all uppear-

»w, tbe ■wmbers of a definite confederacy.

Tkt RrgDun Vannianum gives us the continuation

['it* history of these populations (a. d. 19—50).

i » broken op; Tannins (? the linn) himself dis-

Irsi, sod Vangioand Sido, strongly in the interest

r Km*, made kings of the parts between the Marus

hi Casus (Aforoeaa) instead. To the Kannian

■a&dmry (a Aaa-at) the Sarmatae and Jazyges

natr the cavalry, the occupants of the Banat

rt the infantry (Tac. AtmaL xii. 89).

Far a, n. Si, we find an interesting notice in

■ntcn, which gives definitude to the Sarmatia

wtica it Ptolemy. It is to the effect that, in a

v with Parthia, Pbarasmanes entered into an

laort with the Albanians of the coast of the

u|**a aad the Sarmatae Sccptuchi (? BacriAeioi).

tat Am. vi 33.)

jl n. 69. Two pregnant sentences tell us the

« of the Sarmatian frontier at the accession of

SVs: * Ooortae in nos Sarmaturnm ac Saevorum

•in: nobilitatus cladibu? mutuis Dacus" (Hut. i.

> The Satevi (who here mean the Quadi and

nwmanni) and Sarmatae (foot and horse) are

asi Dacta is paving the way to its final subjec-

l The Jaiygea seem to fall off from tbe

•ate: inasmuch as tbey offer their services to

as. which are refuted. Tbe colleague of Sido is

'lulicas, equally faithful to Home. (Hut Hi.

Id the following year it is Sarmatae and Daci

J art together, threatening the fortresses of Moesia

I'amaau, (iv. 54).

la itrvasion of Moesia by the Roxolani took

» a. D. 69. This is a detail in the history of

Eastern branch.

ft» conquest of Dacia now draws near. When

j>* taken place, the character of the Sarmatian

. Womes peculiar. It consists of an independent

> of land between the Koinan Province and

! -Marcomannic kingdom (Banat); its political

:vo* sactiuting. When Tacitus wrote the G'er-

«, the Gothini paid tribute to both the Quadi

larmatae; a fact which gives us a political dif-

Ke between tbe two, and also a line of separa-

Tbe teat of Tacitus is ambiguous: "Partem

rttraia, Sarmatae. partem Quadi, nt aiienigenis

ramt * (Cera*. 43). Were tbe Sarmatae and

si. or the Quadi alone, of a different family from

aflat Gofhini? This is doubtful. The difler-

■tseif. however, is important.

''< were SannAt mtw amongst the subjects as

at the allien of Decebalus; their shore in the

u War (a. d. lOt!) being details of that event.

'•ere left, however, in possession of a large

« of their country, i. e the parte between the

an Buuauiuin ana the frontier of the Suevi,

u. or occupants of Kegnum Vannianum; the

kaa of this to tbe Roman and non-Roman areas

> :»>rbboiirriood being analogous to that of tbe

onaiss Agri, between llie Rhine and Upper

Or.

i the MarconaMinic Wsr (under M. Antoninus)

~^natse are as prominent as any members of

<-«>deracv: indeed it is probable that some of

the Marcomanni may have been Sarmatae, under

another name. This is not only compatible with

the undoubtedly German origin of the name Marco­

manni (Marchmen), but is a probable interpretation

of it Gorman as was the term, it might be, and very

likely was, applied to a non-German population.

There were two Marches: one held by Germans for

Rome and against the Sarmatians, the other held

by the Sarmatians for themselves. The former

would be a March, the other an Ukraine. In the

eyes of the Germans, however, the men of the latter

would just as much be Marchmen as themselves.

What the Germans in the Roman service called a

neighbouring population the Romans would call it

also. We shall soon hear of certain Borderers,

Marchmen, or men of the Ukraine, under the name

of Limigantes (a semi-barbarous form from Zimes);

but they will not be, on the strength of their Latin

names, Latins. The Solitudines Sarmatarum of the

Roman maps was more or less of a Sarmatian

March. The Jazyges and Quadi are (as usual)

important members of the confederacy.

A. D. 270. Aurelian resigns the province of

Dacia to the Barbarians; a fact which withdraws

the scene of many a Sarmatian inroad from the

field of observations,— the attacks of the Barbarians

upon each other being unrecorded. Both before

and after this event, however, Sarmatian inroads

along the whole line of the Danube, were frequent,

Sarmatians, too, as well as Daci (Getac) were com­

prehended under the general name of Goth in the

reigns of Decius, Claudius, &c Add to this that

the name of Vandal is now becoming conspicuous,

and that under the name of Vandal history we

hare a great deal that is Sarmatian.

The most important effect of the cession of Dacia

was to do away with the great block of Roman,

Romanising, or Romanised territory which lay be­

tween the Sarmatians of Pannonia and the Sarma­

tians of Scythia. It brought the latter within the

range of the former, both being, then, tbe frontagers

of Moesia. Add to this the tact of a great change

in the nomenclature being effected. The German

portion of the Marcomanni (Thervings and Gru-

tungs) has occupied parts of Dacia. The members

of this section of the German name would only know

tbe Sarmatae as Vandals. Again, the Hun power

is developing itself; so thst great material, as well

as nonunal, changes are in the process of develop­

ment Finally, when the point from which the Sar­

matae come to be viewed has become Greek and

Constantinopolitan, rather than Latin and Roman,

the names Sluveni and Servi will take prominence.

However, there is a great slaughter of the Sar­

matians by Cams, on his wsy eastwards. Then

there is the war, under Cons tan tine, of tbe Sarmatae

of tbe Border,—the Sarmatae Limigantes, — a Ser­

vile War. [See Limigantes ] The authors who

tell us of this are the writers of the Hutoria Au-

gueia and Ammianus; after whose time the name

is either rarely mentioned, or, if mentioned, men­

tioned on the authority of older writers. Tbe

history is specific to certain divisions of the Sar­

matian population. This was, in its several divi­

sions, hostile to Rome, snd independent; still, there

were Sarmatian conquests, and colonies effected by

the transplantation of Sarmatae. One lay so far

east as Gaul.

"Arvaque Sauromalum nuper metata coloni"

(Auson. Mosella)

3 s 4

