KOMA. ROMA. 809

Befrta the basilica of Constantine and (ho Co-

and consequently on the eastern side of the

iji height, Hadrian built tbetplendid Temple of

< i» AW Vis i s. commonly called at a later period

replant I'rbia, considerable remains of which still

1.4 behind the convent of & Francesca Romana.

• t;* middle apes it was called Templum Cou­

sins cl Pietatis (Uirabdia Rum. in F.ffemerid.

atar. i. p. 385); the older topographers gave

and Kardini was the first to de-

it correctly. The remains exhibit the plan

temple, or one having two cellae, the

tribunes of which are joined together

tl to hack, so that one cclla faced the Capitol

4 the other the Coloaseam; whence the descrip-

■ of PrwdeMioa (Contra Sgmm. i. 214):—

AbiM Urbis Venerisque pari se cnlmine tollunt

Tmpla. simul gemiuis adolentur tura deabus."

* oeiia being the Colosseum is still visible, but  
'< tier is enclosed in the cloisters of S. Francttca.

lawn were colossal statues of the goddesses in a

Hadrian is related to have planned

himself, and to have been so offended

u the frre-»pnken criticisms of the great archi-

: ApaBodcnu upon it that be caused him to he

I to death. (Dion Cass. lxix. 4.) Apollodorus is

Cad u hare particularly criticised the extrava-

Iusees' the two goddesses, who he said were too

* to ant their seats aad walk out of the temple,  
tl-T been so minded. The temple was of the

• torhfaeaUy called ptendo-dipterat decattylot,

t a, oaring only one row of ten columns, hut at

u» distance from the cella as if there had been

two rows. With its porticoes it occupied the whole

space between the Sacra Via and the street which

ran past the front of the Basilica Constantini. For

a more detailed description of it see Nibby, Faro

Romano, p. 209, seq., and Canina, Edijuj di Rama,

classe ii. A ground plan, and elevations and sec­

tions of it as restored, will be found in Burgess, An­

tiquities and Topography of Rome, i. pp. 268,280.

Servius (ad A en. ii. 227) speaks of snakes on the

statue of Roma similar to those on that of Minerva.

From some coins of Antoninus Pius the temple appears

to have been restored by that emperor. Silver statues

were erected in it lo IL Aurelius and Faustina, as

well as an altar on which il was customary for brides

to offer sacrifice alter their marriage. (Dion Cass,

lxxi. 31.) It was partly burnt down in the reign

of Maxentius, but restored by that emperor.

The Abch of Titus, to which from its conspi­

cuous position we have so frequently had occasion to

allude, stood close to the S\V. angle of this temple,

spanning the Sacra Via at the very summit of the

Vclian ridge. Its beautiful reliefs, which are un­

fortunately in a bad state of preservation, represent

the Jewish triumphs of Titus. The arch could not

have been completed and dedicated till after the

death of that emperor, since he is called Divus in

the inscription on the side of the Colosseum, whilst

a relief in the middle of the vault represents his

apotheosis. It has undergone a good deal of resto­

ration of a very indifferent kind, especially on the

side which faces the forum. During the middle

ages it was called Septem Lucemae and Arcus

Septem Lucernarum, as we see from the Anony-

mus.

ArtCII OF TITUS ItESTOltEIl.

here mention two other monuments

strictly speaking they do not belong

f*aiataar. ye* stand in snch close proximity

kt be conveniently treated of in

are the Arch of Constantine

The former, which stands at

teaer of the Palatine, and spans the road

i fas Hi & Gngorio, between that hill

CarUan. ma erected, aa the inscription

in sinisir of Constantino's victory over

L It is> aatnmed with superb reliefs re-

Trajan, taken apparently

monument of that em-

Thry contrast strangely with the tasteless

and ill-executed sculptures belonging to the time of

Constantino himself, which are inserted at the lower

part of the arch This monument is in a much

better state of preservation than the arch of Titusf

a circumstance which may perhaps be ascribed to

the respect entertained for the memory of the first

Christian emperor. For detailed descriptions and

drawings of this arch see Niebuhr (Beschr. iii. p.

314, seq.), Canina (Fdifizj Antichi, classe xii.),

Overbeke (RrtUi de V An. Rome, ii. L 8, 9), I'ira-

nesi (Ant. Rom. i.).

The Met a SurtASS, so called from its resemblance

to the metae of the circus, was a fountain erected

by Domitian, remains of which are still to bo seen

