3r-2 MITHRIDATIUM. MISENUM.

The name of the promontory of Misenum wm do- 1

rived, according to a tradition very generally adopted

by the Roman writers, from the trumpeter of Aeneas,

who was supposed to be buried there (Virg. Aen. vi.

163,212—235; Propert.iv. 18. 3; Sil. Ital.xii.155;

SUit Si'/r.iii. 1. 150; Mel. ii. 4. §9; Solin. 2. § 13).

Another legend, however, seems to have represented

Misenus as one of the companions of Ulysses (Strab.

v. p. 245). There is no trace of the ezistencc of a

town on the spot at an early period, though it is

almost certain that its secure and land-locked port

(already alluded to by Lycophron, Alex. 737) must

have been turned to account by the Cumaeans during

the period of their naval and commercial power. I

Before the close of the Roman Republic the actual

promontory of Misenum, as well as the neighbouring |

chores of Bauli and Baiae, was become a favourite

Kite for the villas of wealthy Romans; but it was not

till the reign of Augustus that any considerable po­

pulation was collected there. That emperor first in­

troduced the custom of maintaining a fleet for the

defence of the Tyrrhenian or Lower Sea, of which

Misenum was made the permanent station (Suet. ,

Aug. 49; Tac. Ann. iv. 5), as it continued through- j

out the period of the Kmpire. Thus we find the

*' classis Misenensis'' continually alluded to by Ta­  
citus (Aim. ziv. 3, 62, zt. 51, Hist. ii. 100, iii.

56, &c); and the elder 1'liny was stationed at Mi­

senum in command of the fleet, when the memorable:

eruption of Vesuvius broke out, in which he perished,

A.D. 79, and of which his nephew has left us so inte­

resting an account (£)*. vi. 16, 20). At a much

later period we find the establishment of a fleet at

Misenum, with a legion specially organised for its

service, referred to as a permanent institution, both

by Vegetius and the Notitia. (Vcget. v. 1, 2; NotiL

Jjif/n ii. p. 118.) There can be no doubt that in

consequence of this important establishment a con- I

siderable town grew up around the port of Misenum;

and we learn from several inscriptions that it pos­

sessed municipal privileges, and even bore the title of

a colony. (Orell. Inter. 3772; Mommsen, /. R. N.

2575—2577.) But the " Misena'es," whose name J

frequently occurs in inscriptions, arc in general the

soldiers of the fleet (Milites cl'iAsis praetoriae Mi-

tnuifiutn, Mommsen, L c. 2725, &c), not the inha­

bitants of the town.

Before it l>ecamc thus memorable as the station of

the Roman fleet, Misenum was remarkable in history

for the interview between Octavian and Antony and

Sextus I*ompeius, in which the two former were re­

ceived by Sextus on board bis ship, and a treaty was

concluded for the division of the Roman Empire be­

tween the three contracting parties. It was on this

occasion that his admiral Menas proposed to I'ompey

to cut the cables and carry the two triumvirs oft" to

sea. (I'lut Ant 32; Dion Cass, xlviii. 36; Veil.

Pat. ii. 77.) At a somewhat earlier period Cicero

notices it as having been infested by the Cilician pi­

rates, who carried off from thence the daughters of

M. Antonius, who had himself carried on the war

against them. (Cic pro Leg. Manii. 12.) We

learn from I'luUrch that C. Man us had a villa there,

which he describes as more splendid and luxurious

than was suited to the character of the man (Tint.

Mar. 34); nevertheless it was then far inferior to

what it became in the hands of L. Lucullus, who

subsequently purchased it for a sum of 2,500,000

denarii, ami adorned it with his usual magnificence.

It subsequently passed into the hands of the emperor

Tiberius, who appears to have not unfrequently

made it his residence; and who ultimately dial

there, on the 16th of March, a. d. 37. The villa

itself is described as situated on the summit of the

hill, commanding an extensive view over the .mb;

but it is evident, from the account of its vast Mib-

strnctions and subterranean galleries. &c, that it

must have comprised within its grounds the greater

part of the promontory. (I'lut. L c. LuculL 3V;

Seneca, Ep. 51; Tac Ann. vi. 50; Suet. TA, 7%

73; Dion Cass. Iviii. 28; I'haedr. Fat. ii. 36.)

Besides this celebrated villa of Lucullus. we le*rn

from Cicero that M. Antonius the orator had a villa

at Misenum, and that the triumvir, his grandson,

made it a frequent place of residence, (Cic dm Or.

ii. 14, ad Att. x. 8, xiv. 20, Phil. ii. 19.) At a

much later period Misenum became the place of

exile or confinement of the unhappy Romulus Au-

gustulus, the last emperor of the Weft, to wb<4n

the villa of Lucullus was assigned as a place rf

residence by Odoacer after his deposition, a. ix. 476.

(Jornand.6Vf.4G. Marcellin. C'hron. p.44.) Horse*

notices the sea off Cape Misenum as celebrated far

its echini or sea-urchins. (Hor. Sat it. 4. 33.)

Some ruins, still extant near the summit of the

hill, are in nil probability those of the villa of Lo-

cnllus. Of the town of Misenum the remains an

but inconsiderable; they are situated on the S. side

of the Porto di Miseno, at a place now called

Casaluce; while those uf a theatre are situated as

a spot called // Fomo, a little further to toe W„

just where the inner basin or Mare Mortn oprtu

into the outer port. The two were srparuied la

ancient times by a bridge of three arches, which La*

recently been replaced by a closed caimeway, Lte

effect of which has been to cause both the itn^r

basin and outer harbour to 611 up with £reax rapi­

dity, and the latter has in consequence bec»«r*

almost m-eless. In the sides of the hill at the beat!

of the port, and on the N. of the Mare Mario w

excavated numerous sepulchres, which, as we learn

from the inscriptions discovered there, are those at

officers and soldiers of the fleet stationed at Mi­

senum. Many of these inscriptions are of ootv

siderable interest, as throwing liirht upcrn the n-;-

litary and naval institutions of the Roman Empire.

They are all collected by Mommsen (/asrr. ibyav

Neap. pp. 145— 154). [E. H. B.]

MISE'TL'S (Murirro'f: EtJi. Mar^rioj, Steps- R),

a town of Macedonia, the position of which is un­

determined. [E. B. J.]

MI'STHIUM (HiVAov), * town of the nmntaia

tribe of the Orondici in the north of Pisidta (Ptoi- v.

4. § 12), and probably tlie same as the town <sf

Mistheia, which Hierocles (p.G25) places in Lyrspaua.

The latter name occurs also in other late entm,

as Theopltanes (CAron. p. 320) and KtcepcWwe

(c. 20). [L. S.]

MISUA. [Carthago, VoLL p. 551, a.]

MISL'LAM. [McsruuH ]

M1THH1DAT1S RK'GIO (t/ MidptUrov x«*a.

Ptol. v. 9. § 19), a district of Asiatic Sannaxat,

E of tlie Hippici Montea. It derived its name fren

Mithridates, king of the Bosporus, whom Vaulloat

(Achaemenidftiitm Im/trr. vol. ii. p. 246) call* et^-h:h

of that name, ami who fled to thui c*.-unify Car

refuge in the reign of the emperor Claudius. (F«a.

vi.5:Tac^na.xii. 15 ; Dion Casalx.%.) [LIU]

MITHRIDATIUM (Mif^oarisw), a fcrtreae i

the Trocmi, situated on the frontiers of 'f-^iTia mtmi

Pont us. Afier tlie subjugation of Pantos by tba

Romans, Porauejr touk Mithridatiom frven 1Vcj.lv

