12 50 VALLUM BOMANTM VALLUM ItOMANUM.

The wall was everywhere accoiri]ianied on its

n^rthsrn side by a broad and deep fo»se, which may

still bo traced, with trifling interruptions, from sea

to sea, even where the wall has quite disappeared.

It traverses indifferently alluvial soil and rocks of

sandstone, limestone, and basalt. Thus, on Tappei'

Moor, enormous blocks of whinstonc lie just as they

were lifted out of the fosse. East of Hcddon on

the Wall, the fosse is .14 feet wide at the tup, 14 at

the button), and about *J deep. In some places it is

40 feet wide at the top, and in others 20 feet deep.

Hodgson, in Ins History of Northumberland (iii.

p. 270)> states a fact curious if true: '* A little \V.

of Portf/ate, the earth taken out of the fosse lies

spread abroad to the N. in lines, just as the workmen

wheeled it out and left it. The tracks of their

barrows, with a slight mound on each side, remain

unaltered in form." It is scarcely credible, how­

ever, that slight derations of earth, and superficial

traces in it, should, for more than a thousand years,

have successfully resisted the constant operation of

the natural agencies which are sufficient tu disinte­

grate the hardest rocks.

The Vallum, or earth wall, is uniformly S. of

the stone wall. It consists of three ramparts and a

fosse. One rampart is close to the S. edge of the

ditch. Of the other two, which are considerably

larger, one is situated N., the other S. of the ditch, at

the distance of about 24 feet from it. These larger

ramparts are even now, in some places, 6 or 7 feet

high. They an composed of earth, in which masses

of stone are often Imbedded, for the sake of which they

are sometimes quarried. The fosse of the vallum

was probably smaller than that of the murus.

No outlets through the S. lines of fortification

have been discovered; so that the gateways of the

stations appear to have originally been the only means

of communication with the country.

At distances averaging nearly 4 miles, stationary

camps were erected along the line. Some of these,

though connected with the wall, wen evidently built

before it.

The stations aro four-sided and nearly square, but

somewhat rounded at the corners, and coutaiu an

area averaging from ,"i to G acres, though some of

them are considerably larger. A stone wall, about 5

feet thick, encloses them, and was probably in every

instance strengthened by a fosse and one or more

earthen ramparts. The stations m>ually stand upon

ground with a southern inclination.

The gnat wall either falls in with the N. wall of

the stations, or else usually comes up to the N. cheek

of their B. and W. gateways. The vallum in like

manner generally approaches close to the S. wall of

the stations, or comes up to the S. side of the K. and

W. portals. At least three of the stations, however,

are quite detached from both lines of fortification,

being to the S. of them. These may have been

erected by Agricola,

Narrow streets intersecting one another nt right

angles traverse the interior of the stations; and

abundant ruins outside the walls indicate that ex­

tensive suburbs were required for the accommodation

of those connected with the soldiers stationed in the

camps. The stations were evidently constructed with

exclusive reference to defence; and hence no traces

of tesselated pavements or other indications of luxurv

and refinement have been discovered in the mural

region.

According to Efarslej, there were 18stations on the

line of tlie wall, besides some in its immediate vicinity;

but Hodgson reduces the number to 17. UrL-nt-

that in one instance Horsley mUlcok a nxrc less*,

rary encampment for a station.

In ascertaining the number and etna d nt

stations, our principal literary authority is tat A*

t'ttia Imperiit supposed to have been ctwjaWafcsa

the end of the reign of the emperor Tbraowa (i*

younger. The 69th section uf this (Lranast ob­

tains a list of the prefects and tribunes vsAer tk

Duke of Britain: the portion reUlice to oar assjs.

is headed, " Item per lineam Valli,' tai cnr»

the names of 23 stations, evidently arranged is taw

order from E. to W. The heading. hoaew,«av

festly implies, not, as it seems sometinia to bare

j interpreted, that all the stations went sranSr m Ifet

. line of the wall, but that they were oA«j iuta*.*,

I parallel to, or at no great distance frtaa it It»

j clear, therefore, that as remains of stations exist ask

to the N. and to the S. of the wall, as wtU a *•

tually on its line, nothing but the rea-iain tfaavaiai

can enable us to name the stations witfa certaca

Now the first 12 stations mentioned iataeNaaa

have been accurately identified by means af nae"*.

tious found in the rains of the sUtiaae. Of law

we subjoin a list, with the axciwtandaiaoeraiewa,

taken chiefly from the plan prefixed to Mr. firm

work :—

Segedunuin

WalUemd

Poos Aelii

XnccaJtk,

Condercuin*

Be*melL

Vindobala

Hunnum -

Ilaltm Cfejan.

Cilumum-

U aaWnfc Ciakrx

l'rocolitia -

Cut rtiaCMiye.

liorcovicus

HotBot, .v.-

Viudolana

Little Ckakn.«

CaeakrUe.

Aesica

Great Girflan

Magna (Magnae)

Ctu ivriia.

Amboglanna

/„..,•.-■•..-;:

All these are on the actual Lop of the wiu.euaft

Vindolana aiid Magna, which are a little l>taa

of it.

West of Amboglanna no evidence as* t& an

discovered to identify any of the stations; aaiae

to be feared that many antiquities wluca aafataaf

enabled us to do so hare been destroyed; tr a sa­

ltan* that the country people, even quite raaafifc,

regarded stones bearing inscriptions as • acaal>

calling them "witch-stunes," the eril iiJaaen 4

which was to be extirpated by pxindiuz teas •

powder. Besides this, stone is scarce m last act

of the country; and hence the materials of tbreal

and stations have been extensively employee a da)

construction of dikes and other erect*** m tst

neighbourhood.

It appears from the plan already referred I? last

there were stations at the plices now called Caeis*

Fort, Stamrix, Burgh, Drumbmyk, aad ■

the first a little to the S., all the rest ea tat a»

of the wall.

Of the remaining eleven stations mentiieW. a ta*

Notitia, the plan identifies Alioois with ITaesa

Cattle, some miles S. of the wall. Mr Brace pa»»

Iiremeteuracum a little \V. it the Tillage af aVaaa*

tun; Petriana, he thinks, is probably the aaat a

Cambe.ck ForU

It is possible that something may JH bt esse■>

elucidate what is still obscure is coanecaoe wili :*»»

most interesting monuments of Koman Brieam; aal

the L)uke of Northumberland bad, la 1>SJ.

