*oa NEAPOLIS. NEAPOLIS.

a more recent settlement than some one previously

existing in the same neighbourhood; and that this

diil not refer merely to the parent city of Cumae, is

proved by the fact that we find mention (though

only at a comparatively late period) of a place called

Pai-aepolis or " the Old City." (Liv. viii. 22.)

But the relations between the two are very obscure.

No Greek author mentions Pslaepulis, of the existence

of which we should he ignorant were it not for Livy,

who tells us that it was not far from the site of Nea­

polis. From the passage of Strabo above cited, it

seems clear that this was the original settlement

of the Cumaean colonist*; and that the name of

Neapolis was given to the later colony of Chalci-

dians and others who established themselves on a site

at no great distance from the former one. A dif­

ferent version of its history, but of much more

dubious authority, is cited by Fhilargyrius from

the historian Lutatius, according to which the Cu-

inaeans abandoned their first colony from an appre­

hension lest it should eclipse the parent city, hut were

commanded by an oracle to restore it, and gave to

the colony thus founded anew the name of Neapolis.

(Philargyr. ad Georg. iv. 564.) The original name

of Palaepolis (which obviously could not be so de­

signated until after the foundation of the new city)

apjicars to have been Parthenope (Plin. iii. 5. s. 9;

Philargyr. lc), a name which is used by the Roman

ptets as a poetical appellation of Neapolis. (Virg.

Georg. iv. 564; Ovid, Met. xv. 711, &c.) Ste-

phatius. of Byzantium notices Parthenope as a city

of Opicia (the ancient designation of Campania);

but it is singular enough that both he and Strabo

call it a colony of the Rhodians. without mentioning

either the Chalcidians or Cumaeans. (Steph. B.

t. v.; .Strab. xiv. p. 654.) On the other hand, Ly-

cophron alludes to the place where the Siren Par­

thenope was cast on shore, by the name of Falerum

(♦aAfjpoo Tvpais, Lycophr. A lex. 717); and Ste-

phanus also says that Phalerum was a city of

Opicia, the tame which was afterwards called Nea­

polis. (Steph. B. *. r. ♦aA.r/poi'.) The name of

Falerum has a Tyrrhenian or Pelasgic aspect; and

it is not improbable, as suggested by Abcken (3/i'f-

re/ Italien, p. 110), that there was originally a Tyr­

rhenian settlement on the Hpot. The legendary

connection of the Siren Parthenope with the site or

neighbourhood of Neapolis was well established, and

universally received; hence Dionysius designates the

city as the abode of Parthenope; and Strabo tells us

that even in his time her tomb was still shown

there, and games celebrated in her honour. (Strab.

v. p. 246; Dionys. Per. 358; Eustath. ad be.;

Plin. iii. 5. a. 9.)

The site of the original settlement, or Old City

(Palaepolis), is nowhere indicated, but it seems most

probable that it stood on the hill of Pausilypus or

J'otilijM}, a long ridge of moderate elevation, which

sejiarates the bay of I'ozzuoli or Baiae from that of

Xajilc* itself. The new town, on the contrary, ad­

joined the river Sebellms, a small stream still called

the Scbeto, and must, therefore, have occupied the

same site with the more easterly portion of the

modern city of Naplet. (Abcken, ilittd Italien,

p. Ill; Niebuhr, voL iii. p. 179.) The latter city

seems rapidly to have risen to great prosperity, and,

in great measure, eclipsed the older settlement; but

it is clear from Livy that Palaepolia continued to

subsist by the side of the new coluuy, until they both

fell under the dominion of the Samnites. It does not

appear that either the old or the new city was reduced

by force of arms by the Campanian conqueror!; they

seem rather to have entered into a compromise with

them, and admitted a body of the Campaniam la

the rights of citizenship, as well as to a share of the

government (Strab. v. p. 246.) But notwith­

standing this, the Greek element still greatly pre­

dominated; and both Palaepolia and NeapoUs were,

according to Livy, completely Greek cities at tl>*

time when they first came into contact with Ricre.

nearly a century after the conquest of Campania by

the Samnites. (Liv. viii. 22.)

On that occasion the Palaepolitaus, who had had

the temerity to provoke the hostility of Rome by ex­

cursions upon the neighbouring Campaniana, altrmed

at the declaration of war which followed (b.c 328),

admitted within their walls a garrison of 2000

troops from Nola, and 4000 Samnites; and were

thus enahled to withstand the arms of the cufsoj

Publilius Philo, who occupied a post between the two

cities so as to prevent all communication between

them, while he laid regular siege to Palaepuli*.

This was protracted into the following year; but a£

length the Palaepolitana became weary at" their Ssun-

nite allies, and the city was betrayed into the haaia

of the Romans by Charilaus and Nymphius, two of

the chief citizens. (Liv. viii. 22, 23.'25, 26.) Tto

Neapolitans would appear to have followed their ex­

ample without offerjng any resistance: and thia cir­

cumstance may explain the fact that while Pnbhlhs

celebrated a triumph over the Palaepolitaus (Lit.

viii. 26; Fast. Capit.), the Neapolitans were admiued

to peace on favourable terms, and their hbertura

secured by a treaty (foedua SeapoliUmvm, Liv. &c)

From this time all mention of Palaepolis diaaiipraxa

from history. Livy tells us that the chief authority,

which appears to have been previously enjoyed by

the older city, was now transferred to Neapolu: and

it is probable that the former town sank gradually

into insignificance, while the community or " papa­

ins" was merged in that of Neapolis. So compsrtery

was this the case, that Dionysius, in relating the com­

mencement of this very war, speaks only of the Nea­

politans (Dionys. Kxc. Leg. pp. 2314—2319); white

Livy, evidently following the language of the oUer

annalists, distinguishes them from the Palaepuutaa*.

though he expressly tells us that they funned only

one community (" duabus urbibus populus idem ha-

bitabat," Liv. viii. 22).

From this time Neapolis became, in fact, a Earn

dependency of Rome, though retaining the honour -

able title of an allied state (fordrrata ciritnj). and

enjoying tbe protection of the powerful republic,

with but a small share of the burdens usually throws

upon its dependent allies. So favourable, indeoi,

was the condition of the Neapolitans under tbnr

treaty that, at a later period, when all the cities) of

Italy obtained the Roman franchise, they, as well aa

the Heracleans, wero long unwilling to acrtpt tbo

proffered boon. (Cicpro Halb. 8,24.) Hence it ■> o»

wonder that they continued throughout faithful to tlx

Roman alliance, though more than once tbrratrcnl

by hostile armies. In B. c. 280. Pyrrhua appnarli<d

the walls of Neapolis, with the view of makinc him­

self master of tbe city, hnt withdrew without ac­

complishing his purpose (Zonar. viii. 4); and dl

the Second Punic VVar, Hannibal, though L» re­

peatedly ravaged iU territory, was deterred by lb*

strength of its fortifications from assailing the i .iv

itself. (Liv. xxiii. 1, 14. 15, xxiv. 13.) Lik. lt»

other maritime allies of Rome, the Neapolitans con­

tinued to furnish ships and laihxi for tbe Rotoaa

