TERINAEUS SINUS. 1131 TERMESSUS.

ir; bnt before the close of the war that general [

nd himself compelled to abandon this part of

,:\hm, and destroyed Terina, when ho could no

jtr hold it (Strab. vi. p. 456.) The city

■or recovered this blow; and though there seems

been still a town of the name in existence

IttdiTs of Strabo and Pliny, it never again rows

:* x plane of any importance. (Strab. L e.; Plin.

5. s. 10.) An inscription in which its name

*urs in the reign of Trajan (Orcll. Inscr. 150)  
a til probability spurious.

[ne site of Terina cannot be determined with

attaintt; but the circumstance that the ex-

ure bay now known as the Gvlf of Sin Eufemia

frequently called the SiNU8 Tkrinaki s (Plin.

.* a. 10; A TtpuHUot koAtot, Thuc. vi. 104),

ritTitly proves that Terina must have been situ-

f in its immediate proximity. The most probable

lecture is, that it occupied nearly, if not exactly,

*4!T»e site as the old town of Sta Eufemia (which  
destroyed by a great earthquake in 1638), ubout

ti;r below the modem village of the name, and

r the N. extremity of the gulf to which it gives

urn*. Cluverius and other antiquarians have

M it considerably further to the N., near the

rm A'ocrra, where there are said to be the

• of an ancient city (Cluver. Ital, p. 1287;

rioa, oV Sit Calabr. ii. 10. p. 124); but this

'» above 7 miles distant from the gulf, to which

j:M hardly therefore have given name. There

•) reason to suppose that the ruins in question

•bse of a town which bore in ancient times the

r 1 «f Nucerm, which it still retains with little

ition. [Nccf.kia, No. 4.]

nephron seems to place Terina on the bunks

rrrer, which he names OciNAitrs ('ftKhtuwM,

•por. Alex. 729, 1009); and this name, which

< tand elsewhere, has lieen generally identified

rbr river now called the Sarttto (the Sit bat us

*f Itineraries), which flows by Xocera. But  
1 notification rests on the position assumed fur

aa: and the name of the Ocinarus may be

.'!y well applied to any of the streams fulling

the Gmifo/Sta Eufemia.

be variety and beauty of the silver coin* of

aa (which belong for the most part to the best

•1 <■*" Greek art), has been already alluded to.

• injed female figure on the reverse, though

wily called a Victory, is more probably in-

rd fur the Siren Ligeia. [E. H. Ii.]

con or tkiuxa.

KRfNAEUS SINUS. [HiProMATKs Sinus.]

KRl'OLA CASTRA or TKRI'OLIS, a fortress

«-' ii. mentioned only in the Notitia Imperii,

memHy identified with the castle near J/erw»,

which many Roman remains are found. (Comp.

ksojen, BescAreib. der Hum. Hetrstrasse, von

wa *< m *> A*g*bury, p. 86.) [L. S.]

INTIA [Termks.J

KKMERA (riTfpM'pa or T*pu«por: Eth.Ttpp*-

1, a maritime town of Caria, un the south coast

of the peninsula of Hulicarnassus, near Cape Ter-

meriuin. (Herod, v. 37; Strab. xiv. p. 657; Plin.

v. 29; Steph. B. a. r„ who erroneously assigns th«

town to Lyeia.) Under the ltomans this Dorian

town was a free city. According to Suidas (a. v )

the place gave rise to the proverbial expression

Ttpfitpia Hand, it being used as a prison by tbe

rulers of Caria; but his remark that it was situated

between Melos and Halicarnassus is unintelligible.

Cramer sup|jo*es its site to be marked by the mo­

dern L'orbtujlar or Gvmixhln, [L. S.]

TERMERE (Ttppipn). a place of uncertain site,

mentioned only by I'tolemy (v. 2. § 16) as situated

in the extreme north of Lydia, in the district Cata-

cecaumene, near the two sources of the river Her­

nias. [L. S.J

TERMERIUM. [Termkra.]

TERMES (T*>u€f, PtoL ii. 6. § 56), a town

of the Arevaci in Hispania TarracottensLs. it is

probably the same town called Tfppno'o'f and Tfp-

uavria by Appian (vi. 76 and 99). The inhabit­

ants are called Tennestini in Livy (Epit. liv.) and

Tacitus {Ann. iv. 45; cf. coins in S'rtini, p. 208).

Termes was seated on a steep hill, and was often

besieged without success by the Romans, till at last

the inhabitants, on account of their hostile disposition

towards Rome, were com jelled in n. c. 97 to build

a new city on the plain and without walls (App.

vi. 99). It lay undoubtedly on the site of the pre­

sent Ermittt de nwstra Stnora de Termed, 9 leagues

W. of Numantia. [T. H. D.]

TERMESSUS (Tepuno-trof, T*puijooj, TtpptoAi,

Ttpfitffffdi, TtAjUtffff^j: Eth. Tippyaatm), a town

of I'i&idia, celebrated for its natural strength no Jess

than for its artificial fortifications, was situated <>n a

height of Mount Taunts, at the entrance of the de­

files which are traversed by the river Catarrhactes,

and formed tbe means of communication between

Pitidia, Pamphytia, and Lycia. (Strab. xiii. p. 630,

xiv. p. 666; Ptol. v. 5. § 6, viii. 17. § 34; Polyb.

xxii. 18; Steph. B. *. r.; Dion. Per. 859.) A peak

of the mountain rising above the acrojHtlis bore the

name of Solymus; and the inhabitants of the

town itself were, as Strabo says, called Sulyini.

They were certainly not Greeks, for Arrian (i.

27) distinctly calls them I'isidians and barba­

rians. Their town stood on a lofty height, pre­

cipitous on all sides; and the road running close

by the place was very difficult, passing through a

narrow gorge, which could be defended by a Mnall

force. Alexander the Great succeeded indeed in

forcing his way through it, but despairing of the

jx'ssibility of taking Termessus, he continued his

inarch. Strabo (xiv. p. 666) thetefore seems to bo

mistaken in stating that Alexander conquered the

place. The consul Manlius, after relieving Isiunda,

passed along the same road. (Liv. xxxviii. 15.)

The town of Termessus continued to exist down to

a late period, when it was the see of a Christian

bishop, who also had the administration of tvu.

neighbouring places, Jovia and Eudocia. (Hierocl.

p. 680 ) Tbe site of ancient Tcnneasus has not

been difficult to discover by modern travellers, awl

considerable remains still exist at Korabvnar A'rui,

at the foot of the height on which the ancient fur-

tress was situated. (Leake, A*kt Minor, pp. 133

— 135.) As to the coins of Termessus, which

come down as far as the reign of the emperor

Severus, see Sestini, p. 96. On some of these

coins we read psifeVwr in addition to the name of

I the Terniewians, a circumstance which cuutirm* the

