580 rERUSIA. rEKUSIA.

Etruria, situated nearly on tlio eastern frontier of

tlmt country, on a lofty hill on the right hank of tlie

Tiber, and overlooking the lake of Thrasymene

which now derives from it tlie name of Lngo di

Ptruffia. It closely adjoins the frontiers of Umbria,

and hence the tradition reported by Servius, that it

was originally an Umbrian city, inhabited by the

tribe railed Sarsinates, is at least a very probable

one. (Serv. wl Aen. s. 201.) The same author

has, however, preserved to us another tradition,

which ascribes the foundation of I'erusia to a hero

named Auletes, the brother of Onus, the reputed

founder of Mantua. (/£». x. 198.) Justin's assertion

that it was of Achaean origin (xx. 1) may Ik* safely

rejected as a mere fable; but whatever historical

value may be attached to the statements of Serrius,

it seems probable that I'erusia, in common with the

other chief places in the same part of Etruria, was

in the first instance an Umbrian city, and sub­

sequently passed into the hands of the Etruscans,

under whom it rose to be a powerful and important

city, and one of the chief members of the Etruscan

confederacy. It is not till B. c. 310, when the

Romans hud carried their arms beyond the Ciminian

forest, that the name of Perusia is heard of in his­

tory; but we are told that at that period it was one

of the in..st powerful cities of Etruria. (Liv. ix. 37.)

The three neighbouring cities of Perusia,-Cortona,

and Arretium, on that occ:ision united in concluding

a peace with Rome for thirty years (Liv. I.e.; Diod.

xx. 35): but they seem to have broken it the very

next year, and shared in the great defeat of the

Etruscans in general at the Vadiinonian lake. This

was followed by another defeat under the walls of

Perusia itself, which compelled that city to sue for

peace; but the statement that it surrendered at dis­

cretion, and was occupied with a Roman garrison, is

one of those obvious perversions of tlie truth that

occur so frequently in the Roman annals. (Liv. ix.

40.) When we next meet with the name of I'erusia,

it is still as an independent and powerful state,

which in B.C. 295, in conjunction with Clusium,

was able to renew the war with limne; and though

their combined forces were defeated by Cn. Fulvius,

the Peruvians took the lead in renewing the contest

the next year. On this occasion they were again

defeated with heavy loss by I'abius, 4500 of their

troops slain, and above 1700 taken prisoners. (Id. x.

30, 31.) In consequence of this disaster they were

compelled before the close of the year to sue for

peace, and, by the payment of a large stun of money,

obtained a truce tor forty years, B. c. 204. (Id. x.

37.) At this time Livy still calls the three cities of

Perusia, Volsinii, and Arretium (all of which made

peace at the same time) the three most powerful

states and chief cities of Etruria. (Id. I.e.)

We hud no other mention of I'erusia as an in­

dependent state; and we have no explanation of the

circumstances or terms under which it ultimately

became, a. dependency of flume. ttut during the

Second Punic War it figures among the allied cities

which then formed so important a jart of the Roman

power; its cohorts were serving in her armies (Liv. |

xxiii. 17), and towards the end of the content it was

one of the " popult " of Etruria which came forward

with alacrity to furnish supplies to the fleet of

Scipio. Its contribution consisted of corn, and tim­

ber tor shipbuilding. (Id. xxviii. 45.) With this

exception, we meet with no other mention of Perusia

till near the close of the republican period, when it

bore so conspicuous a part in the civil war between

Octavian and L. Antonius,in b.c.*A,iitopi\i

that contest the name of liellum lVratiQcm. (tw.

Aug. !>; Tac. Ann. v. 1; Ores, u 18.) It m

shortly after the outbreak of hostilities on tint oc­

casion that L. Antonius, finding himself pre**! <a

all sides by three armies under Agxippa, Siintiwa,

and Octavian himself, threw himself into fenta,

trusting in the great natural strength of ifcentjto

enable him to hold out till the arrival of his zeaik,

Ventidius and Asinius Pollio, to hu relief. IK

whether from disaffection or incapacity,these <titn

failed in coming to his support, and (iclaviiD so-

rounded the whole hill on which the city vrj

with strong lines of circumvallatiorj, & to to cut

off from all supplies, especially in the udt <f t»

Tiber, on which Antonius had mainly refiei Fauaa*

soon made itself felt in the city; the sie^c to p-

tracted through the winter, and Ventidiia

in an attempt to compel Octavian to nueU,***

drew off his forces without success. L Axica

now made a desperate attempt to break thn«.'liUi

enemy's lines, but was repulsed with great ^atf****

and found himself at length compelled Xo cxp£i\A

His own lite was spared, as were tint* of mat <s'i*

Roman nobles who had accompanied hirri; but t*>

chief citizens of I'erusia itself were put to drt'i'ii

city given up to plunder, and an aendeaui o*d*

gration having been spread by the wind, tre«d

consuming the whole city. (Appian, B.C.^-3H

49; Dion Cass, xlviii. 14; Veil Pat. iL 7*; FN

iv. 5; Suet, Aug. 14. 96.) A story told fry

writers of Octavian having sacrificed 300 d A

prisoners at an altar coti>ecrated to the ixn*

of Caesar, is in all probability a fiction, or i* M

an exaggeration. (Dion Cass. L c.; Sirt. i*J V

Senec. Clem, i. 11; Merivale's Kuma* £*f*

vol. iii. p. 227.)

Perusia was raised from its ashes sgsin ■

gustus, who settled a fresh body of otneai la

and the city assumed in consequence the surac*

Augusta Perusia, which we hud it btarx; ■

script ions; but it did not obtain the rank ur uii

a colony; and its territory was contned t*

trict within a mile of the walls. (l>irm C«-ii

14; Orell. Inscr. 93—95, 608.) NotwithaaB

this restriction, it appears to hare speeciij I

again into a flourishing municipal town. Us**

by Strabo as one of the chief towns in the

Etruria, and its municipal consideration c- »3

by numerous inscriptions. (Strab. v. p. 226; 1

iii. 5. s. S; Ptol. iii. 1. § 48; Tub. PeuL: Orrk I

2531,3739,4038.) F rom one of thes* w 1

that it acquired under the Roman Err^tR tin

of Colonia Vibia; but tlie origin of this a sab

though it is probable that it was derived tr«

emperor Trebonianus Gall us, »bo ippean ^

bestowed some conspicuous benefits \& ti* j

(Veriniglioli, Iscriz. Perug. pp. 379—400; h

ik Colon, p. 436.) The name ot Vcnasa i

again mentioned in history ulj ai'lex th* tiu <

lioiuan Empire, but its natural strengia oc pi

rendered it a place of importance in th* tn

times that followed; and it figures oonfpavM

the Gothic wars, when it is called bv i*n*^

strong foi tress and the chief city of Ettv-i

was taken by Belisarioa in a. r>. 537. aut «

with a strong garrison: in 547 it was

Totila, but held out against Wis arms f>c

years, and did not surrender till after fcVj-^n

quitted Italy. Jt was again rewvned b' \i

552. (Procop.fi. 6' i. 16, 17, iii 6,25,35 i

