SICILIA. SICILIA. 983

rfulitors, who bought up largo tracts of land,

urh ;hev cultivated solely by means of slaves, so

■I the free population of the island became inate-

dir diminished. The more mountainous portion*

it* island were given up to shepherds and herds*

t, »U likewise slaves, and accustomed to habits of

p.nt and plunder, iu which they were encouraged

thai masters. At the same time the number of

sltiy proprietors, and the extensive export trade

■rue of tbe towns, maintained a delusive appear-

*rf prosperity. It was not till the outbreak of  
I Servile War in B. c. 135 that the full extent of

m nils became apparent, but the frightful state

tfcngi then revealed sufficiently shows that the

am which bad produced it must have been long

rxr. That great outbreak, which commenced

a a local insurrection of the slaves of a great

enetor at Enna, named Damophilus, and was

and by a Syrian slave of the name of Ennns,

rlly spread throughout the whole island, so that

•Uvea are said to have mustered 200,000 armed

i With this formidable force they defeated in

traioo the armies of several Roman praetors, so

I in B.C 134, it was thought necessary to send

issl them the consul Fulvins Elaccus, and it was

till the year B. c. 132 that their strongholds of

irnimium and Enna were taken by the consul

Rapiiius (Diud. xxxiv. Exc. Phot, Exc. Valet.)

I insurrection was now finally quelled, but the

• oi Sicily bad undergone a severe shock, and

srttjecent of its affairs was confided to P. Ku-

a. together with ten commissioners, who laid

n • code of laws and rules for its internal eovern-

( which continued to be observed in the days of

n (Cie. Ferr. ii. 16).

at the outbreak of the second Servile War, under

jus and Athenian, less than thirty years after

kraiinarion of the former one (b. c. 103), and

fart that the slave* were again able to maintain

mteat against three successive consuls till they

1 finally vanquished by M. Aquilius, in b. c. 100,

witly proven that the evils in the state of so-

'had been bat imperfectly remedied by Rupi-

ii can we believe that the condition of the

i was in reality altogether so flourishing as it

jrteented by Cicero during the interval which

ad between this Servile War and the praetorship

erres, B. c 73. But the great natural re­

al of Sicily and its important position as the

iry of Rome undoubtedly enabled it to recover

rapidity from all its disasters. The elder Cato

abed it tbe store-room (cella penaria) of the

n state, and Cicero observes that in the great

I War (b. c Of)—88) it supplied the Koinan

» tint only with food, bat with clothing and

also (Cic. Verr. ii. 2). But the praetomhip

rrm (a. c. 73—70) inflicted a calamity upon

'scarcely inferior to the Servile wars that had

votiy devastated it. The rhetorical expressions

• to most not indeed be always understood

!ly; but with every allowance for exaggeration,

can no doubt that the evils resulting from such

irmnent as that of Verres were enormous; and

»*» jost in such a state as to suffer from them

irverery.

• < rations of Cicero against Verres convey to

arh carious and valuable information as to the

iau of Sicily under the Roman republic as well

UV administration and system of government

» f£p<nan provinces generally. Sicily at that

armed but one province, under the government

of a praetor or pro-praetor, but it had always two

quaestors, one of whom resided at Syracuse, the

other at Lilybaeum. This anomaly (for such it ap­

pears to have been) probably arose from the different

parts of the island having been reduced into the

form of a province at different periods. The island

contained in all above sixty towns which enjoyed

municipal rights: of these, three only, Messana,

Tauromcniutn, and Netum, were allied cities (civi-

tates foederatae), and thus enjoyed a position of no­

minal independence; five were exempt from all fiscal

burdens and from the ordinary jurisdiction of the

Roman magistrates (civitates immunes et liberae):

the rest were in the ordinary position of provincial

towns, but retained theirown magistrates and munici­

pal rights, as well as the possession of their respective

territories, subject to the payment of a tenth of their

produce to the Roman state. These tenths, which

were paid in kind, were habitually fanned out, ac­

cording to principles and regulations laid down in

the first instance by Hieron, king of Syracuse, nnd

which therefore continued to be known as the Lex

Hieronica. Eor judicial purposes, the island appears

to have been divided into districts or eonrentus, but

the number of them is not stated; those of Syracuse,

Agrigentum, Lilybaeum, and Panormus arc the only

ones mentioned.

Sicily t*»k little port in the Civil War between

Caesar and Poinpey. It was at first held by M.

Cato on behalf of the latter, but abandoned by him

when Pompey himself had quitted Italy, and was

then occupied by Curio, as pro-praetor, with four

legions (Caes. B. C. i. 30, 31). Caesar himself

visited it previous to his African war, and it was

from Lilybaeum that he crossed over with his army

into Africa (Hirt. B. Afr. I.) After the death of

Caesar, it fell into the hands of Sextus Pompeius,

whose powerful fleet enabled him to defy all the

efforts of Octarian to recover it, and was at length

secured to him by the peace of Misenum, B.C. 39,

together with Sardinia and Corsica. But Octavian

soon renewed his attempts to dispossess him, and

though he sustained repeated defeats at sea, and lost

a great part of his fleet by a 6torm, the energy and

ability of Agrippa enabled him to triumph over all

obstacles; and the final defeat of his fleet at Nanlo-

chus compelled Pompeius to abandon Sicily, and

take refuge in the east (Appian, B. C. v. 77—122;

Won Cass. xlix. 1—17). There seems no doubt

that the island suffered severely from this contest,

and from the rapacity or exactions of Sextus Pom­

peius; Strabo distinctly ascribes its decayed condi­

tion in his time principally to this cause (Strab. vi.

pp. 270, 272). Augustus made some attempts to

relieve it by sending colonies to a few cities, among

which were Taurotneninm, Catana, Syracuse, Ther­

mae, and Tyndaris (Strab. vi. p. 272; Phn. iii. 8.

s. 14); but the effect thus produced was compara­

tively small, and Strabo describes the whole bland

as in his time, with few exceptions, in a state of

decay, many of its ancient cities having altogether dis­

appeared, while others were in a declining condition,

and the interior was for the most part given up to

pasturage, and inhabited only by herdsmen (Strab.

te.)

Augustus appears to have greatly remodelled the

internal administration of Sicily: so that the con­

dition of most of the towns had undergone a change

between the time of Cicero and that "f PHnv.

Caesar had indeed proposed to give Latin rights to

all the Sicilians, and M. Antoriins even

3 R

