BOMA. ROMA. 759

Wjt ffito it obtained its present name cannot

itenruoeJ; it* ancient one was undoubtedly

t«i (run the Via Flamiuia, which it spanned,

i :ht uo» rf Procopius, and indeed long before,

inU totht east had bent outwards from the

icto tW pressure of the Pincian hill, whence it

a ailed rww fractus or inc/molu*, just as it

a* oiled bmwv torto. (Procop. Zf. G. i. 23.)

1st oat gale, proceeding a] way a to the right,

a tat 1'okta Pikciana, before mentioned,

wa wts already walled up in the time of

■ JbbUinous of Ein&iedlen. It of course de­

ws' ru name from the hill on which it stood.

l*au Lad a boose near this gate (Anastas.

'rrrh!, pp. 104, 106); and either from this

rvnUace, or from the exploits performed be-

* .1 br BelUariua, it is supposed to have been  
j tiLai Btiuariv, a name which actually occurs

«* «r two passages of Procopius (B. G. L 18,

, d Xibbj, J/ura, <fc. p. 248). But the Salaria

bu to bare a better claim to this second appella-

l. w lb* gat* which Belisarius himself defended;

ii fc* more probable that there was no such

at st ail, aad that Be\taapt'a in the passages

id a only a corruption of SoAapia. (Becker,

Vtm, p, H5 j L'riichs in Class. Mug. voL ill.

IK.)

f>»r«tog the two gates lying between the Porta

■tat and the Praetorian camp there can be no

in they stood over, and derived their names

t. Uk Via Salaria and Via Nomcntana. In

r unes both these roads issued from the Porta

fat of tat Servian wall; but their divergence of

rendered two gates necessary in a wall drawn

i * we^er radius. The Porta Salakia still sub-

•»i:a the same name,allhougb it has undergone a

Pius IV. destroyed the Porta Nomkn-

'i, u»i built in iu stead the present Porta Pia.

■ '-ampOue ou the latter testines the destruction

tt sftosnt gate, the place of which is marked

t»tablet bearing the date of 1564. A little to

>f- <4 tli* gate are the walls of the Castra

r*-- projecting considerably beyond the rest of

u Aurehau included the camp in his forti-

stt The Porta 1>k<:i:uama, though walled

* visible, as well as the Pruicu'ALES  
buiea.

•*. lUa un the eastern tract of (he Aurelian walls

'titmauaed considerable perplexity. On this side

)r -jjv f.^f road* are mentioned, the Tiburtina,

k u. Prsraeatiiia, and Labicana, and two gates,

'■in TiacarrixA and Pra£nestina. But

a "in* gates, which are commonly thought to

4<ad with the modern ones of 5. Ijtrenzo and

J -Vajyiere, there is a gate close to the Prae-

i l^:^,, shoot the tixe of the Pinciana, and re-

I be Huoorian gatvs in its architecture,

- lu been willed up from time immemorial,  
Lrar* railed Porta Clau&a, or/'orAi Chiusa.

J^ully ues in determining which were the

Ttburuna and Praenestina. The whole

*j iiu been so lucidly stated by Mr. Bunbury  
*s r*jinot do better than borrow his words:

Wo generally asaumed that the two gates

■ n xoOtrn times as tlie Porta S. Lorenzo

** }'vr(a Maggiore are the same as were ori-  
-< respectively the Porta Tiburtina and

* Lua, sad that the roads bearing the same

led from them directly to the important

'irua which they derived their name. It is

■■K is all hands that they appear under these

names in the Anonginus; and a comparison of two

passages of Procopius (/>'. G. i. 19, lb. p. 96) would

appear to lead us to the same result. In the former

of these Procopius speaks of the part of the city

attacked by the Goths as comprising five gates

(iruAai), and extending from the Flaminmn to the

Praenestine. That lie did not reckon the Pinciana

as one of these seems probable, from the care with

which, in the second passage referred to, he dis­

tinguishes it as a wvAi's, or minor gate. Supposing

the closed gate near the Praetorian camp to have been

omitted for the same reason, we have just the five re*

quired, viz., Flaminia, Salaria, Nomentana, Tiburtina

{Porta S. Lorenzo), and Praenestina (Mnggiore).

On this supposition both these ancient ways (the

Tiburtina and Praenestina) must have issued origi­

nally from the Esquiline gate of the Servian walls.

Now we know positively from Straho that the Via

Praenestina did so, as did also a third road, the Via

Labicana, which led to the town of that name, and

afterwards rejoined the Via Latina at the station culled

Ad Pictaa (v. p. 237). Strabo, ou the other hand,

does not mention from what gate the road to Tibur

issued in his time. Kiebuhr has therefore followed

Fabretti and Piale in assuming that the latter ori­

ginally proceeded from the Porta ViminaJi*, which,

as we have seen, stood in the middle of the agger

of Servius, and that it passed through the walls of

Aurelian by means of a gate now blocked up, but

still extant, just at the angle where those walls join

on to the Custra Practoria.

Assuming this to have been the original Tiburtina,

Kiebuhr (followed by MM. Bunsen and Urliens)

considers the Porta S. Lorenzo to have been the

Praenestina, and the Porta Maggiore to have been

the Labicana; but that when the gate adjoining the

Praetorian camp was blocked up, the road to Tiruli

was transferred to the Porta S. Lorenzo, and that

to Praeneste to the gate next in order, which thus

acquired the name of Praenestina instead of its

former one of Labicana {Btschrcibung, i. p. 657, seq).

To this suggestion there appear to be two principal

objections brought forward by M. Becker, neither of

which M. Urlichs has answered: the first, that, sup-

posiug the Via Tiburtina to have been so transferred,

which taken alone might be probable enough, there

is no apparent reason why the Via Praenestina

should have been also shifted, instead of the two

thenceforth issuing together from the same gate,

and diverging immediately afterwards; and secondly,

that there is no authority for the existence of such

a gate culled the Labicana at all. The passage of

Strabo, already cited, concerning the Via Labicana,

certainly seems to imply that that road in his time

separated from the Praenestina immediately after

leaving the Ksquiiinc gate; but there is no impro­

bability in the suggestion of M. Becker, that its

course was altered at the time of the construction of

the new walls, whether under Aurelian or Honorius,

in order to avoid an unnecessary increase of the

number of gates. Many such changes in the di­

rection of the principal roads may have taken place

at that time, of which we have no account, and on

which it is impossible to speculate. Westphal, in

his Romische Campagne ^p. 78), has adopted nearly

the same view of the case: but he considers the Via

Labicana to have originally had a gate assigned to

it, which was afterwards walled up, and the road

carried out of the same gate with the Via Praenes­

tina. The only real difficulty iu the ordinary view

of the subject, supported by M. Becker, appears to

8 c 4

