472 OLBIA. OLBIAXUS SINUS,

which records the exploits of Protogenes, who, in

the extreme distress of bis native city, aided it both

with his purse anil person. Tltis inscription, ap­

parently belonging to the period b.c.218—201,

mentions the Gulatinns and Seiii (perhaps the same

as those who are afterwards found united with the

Heroli and Rugii) as tlie worst enemies of Olbia, a

cle:ir proof that in the tlmd century B. c. Celtic tribes

had penetrated as far to the K. as the Bory&thenes.

Dion Chrysostom (Orat. xxxvi. p. 76), who came

tit Olbia when he escaped from Domitian's edict,

relates how it had been destroyed by tin: Getae

about 150 years before the date of his arrival, or

about it. c. 50, but had been restored by the old in­

habitants. From the inscriptions it apjiears that

Augustus and Tiberius conferred favours on a cer­

tain Ababns of Olbia (No. 2060), who, in gratitude,

erected a portico in their honour (No. 208"), while

Antoninus Pius assisted them .i£uin.>t the Tauro-Scy-

thiuns. (Jul.Capit. Anton. 9 ) The citizens erected

statues to Caracal la and (iota (No. 2091). The city

wa- in all probability destroyed in the invasion of the

Goths a. D. 250, as the name d »es not nccur hence­

forth in history. Tor coins of Olbia, be.sidos the

works already quoted, see Ec.khel, vol, ii. p. 3.

(Pallas, Reite, vol. ii. p. 507; Clarke, Trap. vol. ii.

p. 351 j Murawien Apostol's Reise, p. 27; Bockh,

Inter, vol. ii. pp. 86—89; Niebuhr, Klrine

Sckrijt. p. 352: Schafarik, Slav. Alt. vol. i. p. 397;

Crtuzer, Heidelberg. Jahrbuch, 1822. p. 1235;

Bahr, Excursus ad Herod, iv. 18.) [E. Ii. J. j

COIN OP OLBIA.

OXBTA ('OA§i'a: Eth. 'OAfianfe, Olhiensis:

Terranocd), one of tlie most considerable cities of

Sardinia, situated on the E. coast of the island not

far from its NE. extremity, in the innermost recess

or bight of a deep bay now called the Golfo di Ter-

ranova. According to Pausanias it was one of the

most ancient cities in the island, having been founded

by the colony of Thespiadae under lolaus, the com­

panion of Hercules, with whom were associated a

body of Athenians, who founded a separata city,

which they named Ogryle. (Pans. x. 17. § 5;

Diod. iv. 29: Solin. 1. §61.) The name of Olbia

certainly seems to indicate that the city was of

Greek origin; but, with the exception of this myth­

ical legend, we have no accounts of its foundation.

After the Roman conquest of the island it became

one of the most important towns in Sardinia; and

from its proximity to Italy and its opportune port,

became the ordinary point of communication with

the island, anil the place where the Roman governors

and others who vi-.ited Sardinia usually landed.

(Cic.a</ Q. Fr. ii. 3. § 7. 6. § 7 ) In the First Punic

War it was the scene of a naval enticement be­

tween the cnn-.nl Cornelius and a Carthaginian

fleet, which had taken refuse in its spacious port;

hut was attacked and defeated there by Cornelius,

who followed up his advantage by taking the city,

B. G 259. (Zonar. viii. 11 : Flor. ii. 2. § 16; Val.

M ix. v. 1. § 2.) In the Second Punic War (c. c.

210) its territory was ravaged by a Carthaginian

fleet. (Liv. xxvii. 6.) Under the mi^i of Hv

norius, Olbia is still mentioned by Clawiian » <m

of the principal sea-ports of Sardinia; and thelttae-

raries give more than one line of road pnxtediaj

from thence towards different jiarts of th< UUni.

(Claudian, B. Gild. 519: I tin. Ant. ^ T9,S0.6t)

The name is there written Libia: in tbe miaAl

ages it came to he known as Citita, and obtaiati

its modern apj-ellation of Terranotra from tot

Spaniards.

Ptolemy distinguishes the port of Olbia ("Ofc»

Stavbs A.i^crj*', iii. 3. § 4) from the city itsrlf: hi

probably applies this name to the whole of tat

spacious bay or inlet now known as the Gtlf ^

TerranovOy and the positiou given U that of tat

entrance. [E. H. B.] \

O'LBIA ('OASio: EtL 'OAgtoiroXims, vs\ XJW

6iav6s). Stephanus (s. v. '0\€ia) -.;eiks of SI

city of this name as a Lieurian city, by «bicaftl

means the Olbia on the Ligurian coast of Gafisj

for the name Olbia appears to be Greek. Mcia

5), who proceeds from east to we*t in enoi

the cities on the Mediterranean coast of Gallia.

Olbia between Forum JnlU (Frrjus) arid

(Marseille"). The order of place is this: Forum

Athenopoiis, Olbia, Taunts, Citharistes.

Strata (iv. p. 184), who proceeds from weat

liis enumeration of the cities of this coast,

Massilia, Tauroentium, Olbia, and Antipciia,

Nicaea. He adds that the port of Augustus,*

they call Forum Julii, is between Olbia and

tipolis (Antibes). The Ma.ssaliots built Olbia,

tlte other plates on this coast, as a defence af

the Salyes and the Ligures of the Alps. (S

p. 180.) Ptolemy (ii. 10. § 8) pla«s OMaJ

tween the promontory Citharistes {Cap Cisf|

and the mouth of the river Argenteus (A

west of Frejus. There is nothing that £xs*

site of Olbia with precision; and we mnst

D'Anville's conjecture that Olbia was at a

called Eoube, between Cap Combe and firrtws^

Forbiger accepts the conjecture that Olbia %

St. Trope*) which he supports by saying thai!

places Olbia COO stadia from Mas* ilia: bat!

places Forum Julii 600 stadia from M,- ;. ['

O'LBIA ('OAfta). 1. A town in Bithni

the bay called, after it, the Sinus Olbianus (oosBi

Sinus Astacenus), was in all probability only si

name for Astacus [Astacus]. Pliny (v. 4

probably mistaken in saying that Olbia VI

ancient name for Nicaea in Bithynia: be ssi

confound Nicaea with Astacus.

2. The westernmost town on the coast of H

phylia. (Strab. xiv. pp. 666, foil.; PUn. «.!

Ptolemy (v. 5. §2), consistently with this deacifcl

places it between Pltaselis and At talei*. StefU

B. (*. r.) blames Philo for ascribing this

PamphyUa, since, as he asserts, it was sir

territory of the Solymi, and its real name

but the critic is here himself at fault,

Olbia with the Plaid tan Olbasa. Stnabo

our Olbia as a strong fortress, and it*

colonised the Lyeian town of Cydrema.

3. A town of Cilicia, mentioned only bv Sttfpfci

Bvz. (s. p.), who may possibly liave been tbink^

the Cilician Olbasa or Olbe." [L$

OLBIA. [Oura.]

OLBIA'NUS SIXCS (OAsW&j caXm^

another name for the Sinus Asiacenu?, the MSI

Olbia l»eing also called Astacus. (SctUx. p.

comp. Astaci s, and Olbia, No. 1.) [L. &

