462 OCTODUKU& OCKICULUM.

and tile countries on the Danube. (Strab. iv. p. 207,

vii, p. 314.) The mountain meant is evidently that

between AdeUhirg and Latfbae.fi, which mnrd in all

ages have Iwen the principal line of communication

from tiie Danube and the valley uf the *SVire with

Italy. [E.H.B.]

OCRICUI/UM (of "OtfpurXoi, Strab.; 'Owp.'KoAo,

Steph. B.; 'QKp'ucoKov, Ptol.: 7.7//. Ocriculanus

and Ocriculanus: Otricolf), a considerable town of

Umbria, situated on the Via Flaminia, near the left

bank of the Tiber. It was the southernmost town

of Umbria, and distant only 44 miles from Koine.

(/////. liter, p. 613; Westphal, Rom. Kamp. p.

145.) We learn from Livy that Ocriculum was a

native Umbrian city, and in k. c. 308 it appears to

have separated from the other cities of the confede­

racy, and concluded an alliance with Rome. (Liv. ix.

41.) This is the only notice that we find of it prior

to the conquest of Umbria by the Romans; but after

that period it figures repeatedly in history as a mu­

nicipal town of stime importance. It was here that

in b.c. 217 Fabius Maximus took the command of

the army of Servilius, after the battle of the lake

Trasiinenus. (Id. xxii. 11.) In the Social War

Ocriculum suffered severely: and. according to

Florus, was laid waste with fire and sword (Flor.

iii. 18. § 11); hut it seems to have quickly re­

covered, and iu Strabo's time was a considerable and

flourishing town. It is mentioned in Tacitus as the

place where the army of Vespasian halted niter the

.surrender of the Vitellian legions at Narnia (Tac.

Hist. iii. 78). From its position on the Flaminian

Way it is repeatedly mentioned incidentally under

the Roman Empire (Plin. Ep. vi. 25; Annn. Marc,

xvi. 10. § 4, xxviii. 1. § 22); and it is evident

that it was indebted to the same circumstance for

its continued prosperity. The name is found in

I'iiny and Ptolemy, as well as in the Itineraries;

and its municipal importance down to a late period

is attested also by inscriptions, in some of which it

bears the title of "splendidissima civitas Ocrico-

lana." From these combined, with the still extant

remains, it is evident that it was a more considerable

town than we could have inferred from the accounts

of ancient writers (Plin. iii. 5. p. 9, 14. s. 19; PtoL

iii. 1. § 54; /tin. Ant. pp. 125, .'ill: Gruter,

/nrer. p. 422. 8, 0; Orell. Inscr. 3852, 3857;

Marini, Att't rfei Fratelli Arvali, vol. ii. p. 582).

The site of the ancient city is distant about 2 miles

from the modem village of Otricoli, in the plain

nearer the Tiber. The ruins of ancient edifices are,

in their present state, of but little interest; hut ex­

cavations which were carried on upon the spot in

1780 brought to light the remains of several

public buildings on a splendid scale, the plan and

arrangement of which could be traced with little

difficulty; among these were a Basilica, a theatre,

an amphitheatre. Thermae, and several temples, be­

sides other buildings, of which the purpose could

not be determined. The beauty of many of the

architectural decorations and works of art discovered

on this occasion (especially the celebrated mosaic

floor now in the Vatican, and the colossal head of

Jupiter in the same museum) prove that Ocriculum

must have been a municipal town of no ordinary

splendour, (Westjdi.il, Romische Kampagne, p. 144;

Guattani, Monumenti JnedUi, 1784. where the

results of the excavation are described in detail and

accompanied with a plan of the ancient remains,)

its proximity to Rome probably caused it to be re­

sorted to by wealthy nobles from the city; and as

early as the time of Cicero we learn that MiV>Wi

villa there. (Cic. pro Mil 24.) The penal of tit

destruction of the ancient city is nnmta.u Ida.6

413 it witnessed a great defeat nf Hen

Count of Africa, by the armies of Honoris* (las

Citron, ad ann.), and it is mentioned as an ejt-

see after the fall of the Western Empire, Bu". ti

circumstances that led the inhabitants to nugrutl

the modern village of Otricoli, on a hill owiwui

the Tiber, are not recorded. The corrop&o * tt

name appears to have commenced at an wit aaa

as it is written Utriculttm in the Itineraries ind l

many MSS. of the classical authors. [E. Rkj

OORINUM. [Damkoxium.]

< >CTAPITARUM ('OKra-rlrapo* fapor. Put i

3. § 3), a very prominent headland above :b?f>liiw

of the Sabrina, or Severn, on the W. coast of hr.'xi

now St. David's Head. [T.H.D.]

OCTOOL'TIUS (Martinach, or Martiprnf. m a

French call it), is in the Swiss canton ot Ha)

or Valais, on the left bank of the Rhone* bw ll

bend where the river takes a northern cran*i«tl

lake of Geneva. The I)ranee* one branch ofwhw

rises at the foot of the Great St Bernard, ja» ti

left bank of the Rhone at Martvjny. Itit ra

over the Alps from Martigny a»cencs the

the I/rancet and the summit of the road a tl

Alpis Pennina, or Great St. Bernard, ltn* M

has been used from a time older than any lisfcrw

records. When Caesar was in Gallia (b.C 47—S

he sent Scrvius Galba with the twelfth feci c 1

some cavalry into the country of the Ni^ji'i

Veragri, and Seduni. His purpose in senj^r d

force was to open the pass over the Alps, tbr [a

of the Great St. Bernard, ** by which rani lb« B

catores had been used to travel at great risk. I

with the payment of great tolls.'" (B. 0- iii. I

The people of the Alps allowed the Italian w

chants to pass, because if they plundered :btn1

merchants would not come; but they prt as ~«

out of them as they could. Gaiba, after taii

many strong places, and rex civimr ihe subnuss»'«

the people, sent otf two cohorts into the connm

the Nantuates, anil with the remaining enbvri* i

termined to winter *; in a town of the Veracn »*a

Octodurus, which town being tdtnated in a **l

with no great extent of level ground near it, l* «

fined on all sides by very lofty mountains/ 7*

is some level ground at Martigny, and the v*

the Rhone at this part is not very narrow. C«l

says that the town of Oetodurus was diTii3*»i i

parts by a river, but he dves not mention the rv*

name. It is the Jh-ance. Galba irav* oc* r«*

the town to the Galli to winter in, and as^jfiwi

other to his troops. He fortified bimseif «d

ditch and rampart, and thought he wi*

was, however, suddenly attacked by the Galli afl

his defences were complete or all bis suppi'» 1

brought into the camp. The Romans sttcci

defended themselves in a six hours' rjcht: wi

swing that they could no longer keep thr 'ti

out, they made a &or(ie. which was ronrr^

The Romans estimated the Galli at more th* . ■ - I

and Caesar says that more than a thirl pin i

destroyed. The slaughter of the enemy «»

digious, which has been made an objection to t

sar's veracity, or to Galba's, who made his rrpM

the commander. It has also been objected th*4

valley is not wide enoneh at Martieptyi \o b**d

30,000 men. There may be error id the bos

that attacked, and also iu the number whr j^r^

