SICILIA. S1CILIA. 977

cues of Laestrygones and Cyclopes; but these

■ il«u tales, preserved only by the early poets in a

inner that renders it impossible to separate truth

<a (alstboud, are justly discarded by Thucydides

ma worthy of serious consideration (Thuc. vi. 2).

may (office to remark, that Homer (of course, the

rhnt authority on the subject) says nothing <li-

n!y la prove that he conceived either the Cy-

» or Laestrygones as dwelling in Sicily; and

.•in both casta a mere inference of later writers,

K-me tradition now unknown to ns. Homer

kad, in one passage, mentions (but not in connec-

3 with either of these savage races), '' the island

rhrinakiam (Odfu. xii. 127), and this was gene-

ly kirntiSed with Sicily, though there is certainly

jing ia the Odyssey that would naturally lead to

:k a etioehuion. But it was a tradition generally

rived that Sicily had previously been called Tu­

la, from it* triangular form and the three

asaotories that formed its extremities (Thuc. vi.

ItmL t. 3 ; Strab. vi p. 265). and this name

i Bxmected with the Homeric Thrinakia. It is

ma thai such a name could only have been

en by Greek navigators, and argues a consider-

e amount of acquaintance with the configuration

u thnrea. It could not, therefore, have been (as

cased even by Thucydides) the original or native

s* af the island, nor could it have been in use

a among the Greeks at a very early period. But

eacsot discard the general testimony of ancient

ten, that this was the earliest appellation by

rb Sicily waa known to the Greeks.

La it her people whom Thucydides, apparently

L toad reason, regards as more ancient than the

da. wen the Sh am, whom we find in historical

m ■■tap-ying the western and north-western parts

lie aland, whither, according to their own tradi-

, they bad been driven by the invading Sicels,

a theae crossed the straits, though another tra­

ss ascribed their removal to the terror and devas-

m caused by the eruptions of Aetna (Thuc. vi. 2;

■. r. 6). The Sicanians claimed the honour of

. antachthone, or the original inhabitants of the

at. and this view waa followed by Timaeus; but

rydidem, aa well as I'hilistus, adopted another

ilioa, according to which they) were of Iberian

. s n (Thuc. L ft] Diod. /. c). What the

events were which he regards as conclusive, we

^.fortunately wholly ignorant; but the view is

Ueif probable enough, and notwithstanding the

i resemblance of name, it is certain that through-

tae aJ^"^»l period the Sicani and Siculi are

keenly treated as distinct races. Hence it is

triable that they were merely tribes of a kindred

• is we should otherwise have been led to infer

i the fact that the two names are evidently only

tarns of the same appellation.

I taird race which is round in Sicily within the

■»i period, and which is regarded by ancient

art as distinct from the two preceding ones,

wt of E i ■ i who inhabited the extreme north-

en corner of the island, about Kryx and Se­

at Tradition ascribed to them a Trojan origin

-.vi. 2; Diooys. L 52), and though this story  
'.'ably worth no more than the numerous simi-

lalss of Trojan settlements on the coast of Italy,

e niaat probably have been some foundation for

L-ijxg them as a distinct people from their neigh-

1, the Sicani. Both Thucydides and Scylax

Ally manikin them as such (Thuc. L c.; Scyl.

k j 13): bat at a later period, they seem to

have gradually disappeared or been merged into tho

surrounding tribes, and their name is not again

found in history.

Such were the indigenous races by which Sicily

was peopled when its coasts were first visited, and

colonies established there, by the Phoenicians and the

Greeks. Of the colonies of the furmer people we

have little information, but we are told in general by

Thucydides that they occupied numerous points

arouud the coasts of the island, establishing them­

selves in preference, as was their wont, on projecting

headlands or small islands adjoining the shore.

(Thuc. vi. 2). But these settlements were appa­

rently, for the most part, mere trading stations, and

as the Greeks came to establish themselves perma­

nently and in still increasing numbers in Sicily, the

Phoenicians gradually withdrew to the KW. corner

of the island, where they retained three permanent

settlements, Motya, Panormus, and Soloeis or Solun-

tum. Here they were supported by the alliance of

the neighbouring Elymi, and had also the advantage

of the proximity of Carthage, upon which they nil

became eventually dependent. (Thuc. /. c.)

The settlement of the Greek colonies in Sicily

began about the middle of the eighth century B. c,

and was continued for above a century and a half.

Their dates and origin are known to us with much

more certainty than those which took place during

the corresponding period in the south of Italy. Tho

earliest were established on the E. coast of the island,

where the Chalcidic colony of Naxob was founded

in B.C. 735, and that of Syracuse the following

year (b. c. 734), by a body of Corinthian settlers

under Archias. Thus the division between the Chal­

cidic and Doric colonies in Sicily, which bears as

prominent a part in their political history, became

marked from the very outset. The Chalcidians were

the first to extend their settlements, having founded

within a few years of the parent colony (about B. c.

730) the two cities of Leostcu and Catana, both

of them destined to bear an important part in the

affairs of Sicily. About the same time, or shortly

after (probably about b. c. 728), a fresh body of

colonists from Megara founded the city of the same

name, called, for distinction's sake, Megara 11

LAKA, on the £. coast, between Syracuse and Catana.

The first colony on the S. coast of the island was

that of Gela, founded in b. c. 690, by a body of

emigrants from Rhodes and Crete; it was, therefore,

a Doric colony. On the other hand, the Chalcidians

founded, at what precise period we know not, the

colony of Zascle (afterwards called Messaxa). in

a position of the utmost importance, as commanding

the Sicilian Straits. The rapid rise and prosperity

of these first settlements are shown by their having

become in their turn the parents of other cities,

which soon vied with them, and, in some cases, sur­

passed them in importance. Thus we find Syracu.-e

extending its power by establishing in succession the

colonies of Ackas in b. c. 664, Casmksak in b. c.

644, and I .uuxiia in B. a 599. Of these, the

last alone rose to be a flourishing city and the rival

of the neighbouring Gela. The latter city in its

turn founded the colony of AoHlOBHTtm, in B. c.

580, which, though one of the latest of the Greek

colonies in the island, was destined to become one of

the most powerful and flourishing of them alL Still

further to the W.. the colony of Selinis, planted as

early as B. c 628, by a body of settlers from the

Hyblaean Megara, reinforced with emigrants from

the parent city in Greece, rose to a state of;

3 R

