ISCA. a ISIS.

most distinct notice of the road from Seaton, and,

nine miles from Exeter, the locality called Street-way

Head; the name street = road (when not through a

tmm or rillnge) being strong evidence of the way

brim; Roman. Tcsselated pavements and the foun­

dations of Roman walls have been found at Exeter,

as well as other remains, showing that it was not

<mly a Roman town, but a Roman town of im­

portance, as it continued to be in the Saxon times,

and as it bad probably been in the British.

2 Isca I,kc.ionis= Caerleon-on-Usk, is men-

tim.nl in the I2th Itinerary, Le. in the one where

Isca Dutnnoniorum occurs. The only town given

by Ptolemy to the Silures, the population of the parts

to which Isca ^sometimes called by later writers

Isca Silurum) belongs, is Bullaeum. This = Bur-

rinm of the Itinerary, 8 Roman miles from Isca

(= Ust, about 6 English miles from Caerleon.)

Hence, Isca may have been a military station of

comparatively recent date. But there is a fur­

ther complication. It is the Devonshire Isca to

which Ptolemy gives the Second Legion (Arylw

ifvrrpa StSaarJ)). "This," remarks Horsley (and,

perhaps, with truth), on the part of Ptolemy, is,

"in my opinion, the only manifest and material

error committed by him in this part of England"

(p. 462).

Again: several inscriptions from the Wall (per

luvam VaUi) show that, when that was built, the

second Legion was on the Scottish border, taking

part in the work; the previous history of the legion

bang, that it came into Britain under the reign of

Claudius, commanded by Vespasian. (Tac. Uist.

in. 44.) On the other hand, an inscription men­

tioned by Horsley, but now lost (p. 78), indicates

their presence at Caerleon in the time of Severus.

As the Itinerary places them there also, we must

suppose that this was their quarters until the times

approaching the evacuation of Britain. When the

Sotitia was made, they were at Rutupiae (Hich-

boro'): praepositus LECIONI3 II. AUGCST. RU-

TUMS.

Tbe Roman remains found at Caerleon are con­

siderable. A late excavation for the parts about the

Castle. Mound gave the remains of a Roman villa,

along with those of a medieval castle, built, to a great

extent, out of the materials of the former. In some

cases the stucco preserved its colour. There was

abundance of pottery,—Samian ware, ornamented

with figures of combatant gladiators, keys, bowls,

bronze ornaments, and implements. At Pit Bach,

near Caerleon, tesselatcd pavements have been found,

along with the following inscription: — dms ma-

5IBYS TAOIA VEIXAVIVS . VIX1T ANXOS SEXA-

GIXTA O.VI.VQVK . KTTADIVS EXUPERTVS FILIVS

VLXIT ASNOS TRIG1XTA KEPTEM . DEFVNTVS (sic)

EXPEDITIONE OERMAXICA . TADIA EXUPERATA

nUA MATRI ET PATUI P1ISSIHA SECTS TV-

mvlvm patrm posvit. Others, of less length, to

tbe number of twenty, have also been found in the

neighbourhood. (See Arehaeologia Cambrensis;

Journal of British Archaeological Association

(passim); and JJelineations of Roman Antiquities

fmnd at Caerleon. J. E. Lee.) [R. G. L.]

ISCA. river. [Isaca.]

ISCA'DIA (EioicaSia), a town in the W. of Bae-

tica, between the Baetis and the Anas, not far from

Toco. (Appian, //up. 68.) [P. S.]

ISCHALIS, in Britain, mentioned by Ptolemy

(il 3. § 28) as one of the towns of the Belgne, Bath

and Winchester ("TSara Ow^i or Aquae Soils, and

Venta) being the other two; identified, in theMonu-

menta Britannica, with Ilchesler. [Isca Dimso-

niorum.] [R. G. L.]

ISCHO'POLIS ('IffxoiroXij), a small town on the

coast of Pontus near Phamacia, was in ruins even

in the time of Strabo (xii. p. 548), but is still

noticed by Ptolemy (v. 6. § 5). [L. S.]

ISIACO'RUM PORTUS('I<r.a«c»» AiuV, Arrian,

Peripl. p. 21, Anon. Peripl. p. 9), a harbour on the

Euxinc sea, 380 stadia from the island at the month

of the Borysthenes, and 1200 stadia from the Psilon

(Sulina) mouth of the Danube. (Arrian, /. c.) It

has been identified by Rennell (Comp. Geog. vol. ii.

p. 360) with Odessa. There is some difficulty in

adjusting the discrepancies in detail; but the aggre­

gate distance appears to be clearly enough made

out. Thus, from the island to Odessus Arrian allows

a distance of 80 stadia, and from Odessus to the

port of the Istrians CloTpiavwv Aturjr) 250 stadia,

and thence to that of the Isiaci 50 stadia. The

ODESSUs('OSno'o-o's) of Arrian (for he places Odessus

at Varna) is probably a false reading, and is the

same as the Ordesus ('OpSriads) of Ptolemy (iii. 5.

§ 29) and Pliny (iv. 12), situated upon the river

Axiaces, or the modem Teligul, a large estuary

which receives a river of the same name. As the

interval in Arrian between Odessus (Ordesus) and

the island is too short, so the next is too large; but

the errors balance one another, and the harbour of

the Isiaci agrees with that of Odessa within three

quarters of a mile; the port of the Istrians may

have lain to the N. of the bay of Odessa. [E. B. J.]

ISIDIS 0PP1DUM (Pirn. v. 10. s. 11). Near the

city of Busiris, in the Aegyptian Delta, was situated

a splendid temple of Isis, around which, besides the

ordinary dwellings of tho priests within the sacred

precincts, gradually clustered a large and flourishing

village, inhabited by the artisans and husbandmen

who supplied the wants or tilled the lands of the

inmates of the temple. These buildings formed

probably the hamlet or town of Isis mentioned by

Pliny. The modern village of Bahbeyt. N. of tho

ancient city of Busiris. is supposed to cover the

ruins of the Templum Isidis. (Pococke, Travels in

tlie East, vol. i. p. 34; Minutoi, p. 304.) [Bu-

sims.] [W. B. D.]

ISIN1SCA, a place in Rhaetia Secunda, on tho

ancient road between Augsburg and Salzburg. (Itin.

Ant. pp. 236, 251, 257; Tab. Pent, where it is

called Isunisca.) It is identified by some with hen,

and by others with a place near Ilelfendorf [L. S.J

ISIONDA ('I<noV5a), a town in the south-west

of Pisidia, a few miles to the north-west of Tcr-

messus. (Polyb. Exc. de Leg. 31; Liv. xxxviii. 15.)

Strabo (xii. p. 570), in enumerating the Pisidian

towns, mentions one which he calls Simla, a name

which some editors believe to be a corrupt reading for

Isionda; but, as there existed a town of the name i>f

Sinda near Cibyra in Pisidian Phrygia, it would bo

hazardous to decide anything. (See Kramer's note

on Strab. I. c.) Sir C. Fellowes (Asia Minor, p.

194) found extensive remains of an ancient town on

the top and side of one of the many isolated hills of

the district, which he supposes to be the ruins of

Isionda, but he does not mention any coins or in­

scriptions in support of his conjecture. [L. S.]

ISIS (o "lots), a navigable river on the cast coast

of the Euxine between the Acinasis and Mogrus,

from each of which its distance amounted to 90

stadia, while its mouth was 180 stadia south of that

of the Phasis. (Arrian, Peripl. p. 7 ; Plin. vi. 4;

F2

