LIBYA. LIBYCUM MAKE. 181

(3) the Phoenicians, and (4) the Greeks. He enu­

merate, moreover, a considerable number of indi­

genous tribes, and his catalogue of them is greatly

incrrased by subsequent writers, e.g. Scylax, Hanno,

Folybina, and Ptolemy. When, however, we would

awh.Tt to these a generic connection, or a local habi­

tation, the insurmountable difficulty meets us which

ever attends the description of nomad races; igno­

rance of their language, of their relations with one

anther, and their customary or proper districts.

The Greek geographers, in their efforts to render

the names of barbarians euphonic, impenetrably dis­

guise them for the most part. Again, their infor­

mation of the interior was principally derived from

tae merchants, or guides of the caravans : and these

persons had a direct interest, even if their knowledge

were exact or various, in concealing it. Aloreover,

tlw trareller, even if unbiassed, was liable to error

in his impression of these regions. The population,

beyond the settled and cultivated districts, was ex­

tremely fluctuating. In the rainy season they inha-

l-ittd the plains, in the hot months the highlands,

acmniingly as their cattle required change of climate

and pasture. The same tribe might, therefore, be

n-ckoned twice, and exhibited under the opposite

characteristics of a highland or a lowland people.

Parage races also are often designated, when de-

Kiibed by travellers, by names accidentally caught

up or arbitrarily imposed, and not by their genuine

ar*j native appellations. Thus Herodotus, in com*

man wiih the other geographers of antiquity, gives

an undue extension to the name AetMopes, derived

frr>m the mere accident of a black or dark com­

plexion, and had he been acquainted with the Caffirs

ud the Hottentots, he would, doubtless, from their

cairar, hare placed them in the same category.

The diet of the Ichthyophagi was not restricted to

r*h, tince they were also breeders of cattle; but

they acquired that appellation from their principal

food at one season of the year. The Troglodytes,

during the spring and summer months, dwelt among

the low meadows and morasses of Meroe and Ae-

ttnspta; but their name was given them because,

dttrinj: the rainy period, they retired to habitations

*c-wp«l in the rocks. "With regard to the native  
r*ce> of Libya, the only secure presumption is, that

ttey formed one of those sporadic offsets of the human

family which remain in, or acquire a lower degree of

civilisation, because they have wandered beyond the

Trrje of the great empires and communities in

»h:ch civilisation is matured. The Libyan con­

tinent has, indeed, been in all ages the principal

rwrt of these sporadic tribes. The desert6, which

ittMTfiK between the cultivated and uncultivated

jard'ona of it, removed much of its population from

the neighbourhood of cities; they were liable to no

admixtures from other countries; they were never

tVcojjrhly subdued or intermingled with superior

raws; and though, as in the instance of the Perioeci

<rf the Greek states, the Liby-Phoenicians in the

temaiao* of Carthage, and the subordinate castes

rf Aegypt, they were not incapable of a high

carnal cultivation; yet, when left to themselves,

they continued to exist under the simplest forms of

•ocaJ fife. Combining the glimpses we obtain from

the ancients with the more accurate knowledge of

the modems, we ape warranted in ascribing to them,

pwrally, s monarchical form of government, with

«:* control from the priests and assembly of

chief men, warlike and migratory habits, debased

sedition of the female sex, and the vice of Africa,

in all ages, constant warfare, waged with the sole

purpose of supplying the slave-markets of the

Korth and East.

The Fauna of Libya must not be unnoticed. In

the northern deserts tawny and grey tints are the

prevailing colours, not merely in birds and beasts,

but also in reptiles and insects. In consequence of

the extension of this barren region from North

Africa through Arabia to Persia and India, many

similar species of animals are common to both

continents, — as the ass, antelopes, leopards, pan­

thers, and hyaenas. The cat tribe prevails in

great beauty and variety: the lion of Mount Atlas is

said to be the strongest and most formidable of his

species. The African elephant is different from the

Asiatic, and has always been preferred to it for

military purposes. The hippopotamus, which was

known to the ancients as the inhabitant of the

Senegal aud the Upper Nile, appears to be a different

species from that which is found in the inter-tropical

and southern parts of the continent. The magot or

Barbary apo was known to the ancients, and is

mentioned by the Byzantine writers as imported for

the menageries of Constantinople. The giraffe or

camelopard is found as far north as the Great

Desert. It appears on the monuments of Aegypt,

and was exhibited in the imperial triumphs at

Rome. The Atlas region contains two kinds of

fallow-deer, one of which is the common fallow-deer

of Europe. The ox of Nubia, Abyssinia, and Bornou

is remarkable for the extraordinary size of its horns,

which are sometimes two feet in circumference at

the root Of the Libyan animals generally it may

be remarked, that while the species which require

rich vegetation and much water are found in the

Atlas valleys and the plains below them, the Desert

abounds in such kinds as are content with scantier

herbage,—such as the deer, the wild ass, and the

antelope. These being fleet of foot, easily remove

from the scorched to the green pasture, and find a

sufficient supply of water in the ooze of the river beds.

As regards its Flora, the northern coast of Libya,

and the range of the Atlas generally, may be re­

garded as a zone of transition, where the plants of

southern Europe are mingled with those peculiar

to Africa. The Greek and Phoenician colonists

built their naval armaments of the pine and oak of

Mount Atlas, the Aleppo pine and the sandarack or

Thuia articulate, being celebrated for their close

grain and durability. The vegetation of the interior

has been already in part mentioned. The large

forests of date-palms, along the southern base of the

Atlas, are its principal woodland. The date tree is

indigenous, but improved by cultivation. Of the

Desert itself stunted shrubs are the only produce

besides the coarse prickly grass (pennisetum dicho-

tomwm), which covers large tracts, and supplies fodder

to the camels.

For the authorities upon which this account of

Libya rests, see, besides the ancient writers already

cited, the travels of Shaw, Horneiminn, Burckhardt;

Kilter's Erdkutule, Africa; Heeren, Ideen, vol. i.;

Mannert's Geographic, Libya; and Maltebrun,

Afrique. [W. B. D.]

LIBYA PALUS. [Libya, p. 180, b.; Triton.]

HBYARCHAE. [Makmahica.]

UBYCI MONTES. [Aegtptus,p.37; Oasis.]

U'BYCUM MARK (to H&vkqv *4\ayos, wd>-

tos AtSur/i), was the name applied to that part of

the Mediterranean which washed the shores of

N. Africa, from the E. coast of Africa Propria ou

N 3

