114 LACRINGI. LACONIA.

Taenarnm. Kiplity Btadia beyond Trinssus was

Heisis, also upon tlie const. The road from Sparta

to lb-los followed the Eurotas the greater part of

the way; and Leake noticed in several parts of the

r'»ck rut* of chariot wheels, evidently the vestiges

of the ancient carriago-road. (Leake, Aforea, vol. i.

p. 194.) Thirty stadia south of Hclos on the coast

was Acriae; and sixty stadia south of Acriae,

Asopus, the later name of Cyparissia. Between

Acriae and Asopus, Ptolemy mentions a town

liiAXMNA (BioVSiia. iii. 16. §9), the name of

which occurs in an inscription in the form of Biadi-

mipolis(Bfa5[ii']ouiroAfcray, Bockh, Inte. No. 1336).

Between Asopus and Acriae was an inland plain,

called Leuce, containing in the interior a town of

this name, and in the same nei^hlwurhood was

1'i.kiak. Returning to the coast. 50 stadia south

of Asopus, was a temple of Asclepius, in a spot

called Hypehtki.eatl'M. Two hundred stadia south

of Asopus was tlie promontory and peninsula Omu-

cjnatiil's, connected with the mainland hy a narrow

isthmus, which is, however, generally covered with

water. Between Onugnathns and Malea is a con-

sidenihle bay, called Bocnticos Sinus, from the town

of Bokae, situated at its head. In this neighbour-

1iih»1 were three ancient towns, called Etis, Aphro-

MsiAs.aml Side,which were founded by the Dorians;

the two former on the Boeaticus Sinus, and the other

on the eastern sea north of Cape Malea. Between

IWae and Malea was Nympiiakum (NiVtfwuo*' or

NtVfiaiue), with a cave near the sea. in which was

a fountain of sweet water. Pausanias (iii. 23. § 2)

calls Xympliaeum a Aijuirj, hut, as there is no hike

In this neighbourhood, Boblayc conjectures (AV-

cherelui, <fc. p. 99) that we should read Ay"f", and

places Nymphaeuin at the harbour of Santa Marina,

where a fountain of water issues from a grotto.

The promontory Malea (MoArfa, Steph. B. t. v.

et alii; MaAt'n. Herod, i. 82; Strab. viii. p. 368),

still called Sfaliti, the most southerly point in

(Irecce with the exception of Taenarum, was much

dreaded by tbe ancient sailors on account of the

winds and waves of the two seas, which here meet

together. Hence arose the proverb, "after doubling

Malea, forget your country" (Strab. viii. p. 378),

and the epithet of Statins, "formidatum Maleac

caput" (Theb. ii. 33). On the promontory there

was a statue of Apollo. (.Steph. B. ». r. Ai0ii<nor:

'AwJaXmc MuAfdTnj, Pans. iii. 12. § 8.) South of

Malea was the island Cvtiif.ha. Following the

eastern coast we first come to Side, already men­

tioned; then to Kpidelium, 100stadia from Malea;

next to KpiDAritus I.imkka, and successively to

Zarax, Cypiiaxta, and 1'hasiae or Brasiae, of

which the last is near the routines of Argolis.

The numbers in Pausanias, giving the distances (»f

these places from one another, are corrupt: see

Ctphanta. In tbe interior, between the Kurotas

and the south-western slopes of Pamon, Pausanias

mentions Geroktiirae, situated 120 stadia north

of Acriae; Mark's, 100 stadia east of Gerontliiw:

Gt.vppiA, aLso called (Ilympia, north of Mantis; and

SKi.fKfs, 20 stadia from Geronthrae.

Ketuming now to Gythinm, we proceed to enu­

merate the towns to the right, that is, west and

south, of this place, according to the plan of Pan-

aanias (iii. 24. § 6, acq.); in other wonts, the towns

in the jieninsnla through which Mount Taygetus

nins. Forty stadia south of Gythinm was Las

upon the oust, which some writers call Asine.

Thirty stadia from a bill near Las was Uvpsi, in

the interior; and a little below Las was the rrnr

Smcnus (Zm^^oi), rising in Mt. Tay^etoa, which

Pausanias praises for the excellence of its water,

now the river of PaMard. Immediately sooth of

this river was the temple of Artemis Dictynna, on s

promontory now called Agheranot; and in the sans?

neighbourhood was a village called by I'susana*

Araeuus or Araenum, where Las, the founder i«

the city of Las, was said to have been burmi.

South of the promontory of Agheranoi is a stream,

now called the river of Vkikoea, the Sctra*

(2««''oas) of Pausanias (iii. 25. § 1), beyond which

were an altar and temple of Zeus: Uierc are still

some ancient remains on the right side of the river

near its mouth. Further south is the peninsula at

Skuturi, inclosing a bay of the same name, which b

conjectured to be the Sinus Aegilodes of Pbjty

(iv. 5. s. 8); if so, we must place here Aegila, which

is mentioned incidentally by Pausanias (iv. 17. §1)

as a town of Laconia. Inland 40 stadia from the

river Scyras lay Pyiikiiichi's. SE. of Pyrrbichni

on the coast was Tectiirone. Between Teutonic*

and the Tacnarian peninsula no town is mentioned,

but at a place on the coast called Kiirmia there sre

considerable remains of two temples. The Tarnarisa

peninsula is connected with that of Taviretns by aa

isthmus half a mile across, and contains two har­

bours, named Psamatiics and Aciiiixeks Poirrts

[sec Taenarlm]: the extremity of the peninsuii

is C. Matapdn. Bounding the latter point, and

ascending southwards, we come to the town of Tae-

narum. afterwards called Caenepous, 40 stadis

above the Taenarian isthmus. Thirty stadia N. of

Caencpolis was the commencement of the promom-jfr

TimtiDES, nearly as large as the Taenarian penin­

sula, but connected with the mainland by a much

wider isthmus. On this promontory were the towm

of Hippoi.a and Mkssa. North of Messa was

Oetyi.is; but the distance of 150 stadia, assijcnl

by Pausanias between the two places, is too much.

[Oetyu■«.] Eighty stadia north of Oetyln* wis

Thai-AMAE. situated inland, and 20 stadia frorc.

Thalamae waa Pkphscs, upon tbe coast Both

the.-e towns were upon the lesser PAWisra, bow

called the Milca. which tbe Messenians amid was

originally the boundary of their territory. (Strab.

viii. p. 361 j 1'aus. iii. 26. § 3.) Tbe districts north

of this river were taken away from the I-aeedae-

monians by Philip in B.C. 338, and granted to toe

Messenians; but it is probable that the hater did

not long retain possession of them. In the time of

the Roman empire they formed part of Eleuthrrv-

Laconia. (Leake, Ptln/xmncsiaca, p. 179.) Twenty

stadia north of Pephnus, upon the roast, w»

Leuctra or Leccthim ; and 60 stadia north of

the latter, Cari>amyi.e, at the distance of 8 »t»d>»

from the sea. North of Cardamyle waa Gkkxma.

the most northerly of the KleuiheroLaconiao towns.

Thirty stadia from Uereuia, in the interior, w»»

Alaooma.

(On the geography of Laconia, see Leake, Mi"**

and Pflopmtnrfuit-a; Bohlaye, AVeAVrrAfSt, cfr..

l!os«, AWVn im PrUipcmnet and \Vma\rmr* ™

(Jrinhmbmd; Curtius. Pclovometoe.)

LACO'NICUS SINUS. [Laco».a.]

LACON1MURGI. [Ckltica; Vkttoiio.]

LACRINGI, mentioned by Capitolimss (M. Am-

Imin. c. 22), by Woo Cabins (Ixxxi. 12). a»J

by Petrns Patricius (Ejceerpt- Legal, p. 1S4. ed.

Bonn), along with th» Aarnxoi and Brut. Tbry

were either Dacian or on the Daciau frontier, aal

