890 MERCURII PROM. MEROE.

to signify the estimated width of the northern inlet

separating the island from the main; and this esti­

mate is probably much exasperated. The mode of

fishing with baskets is HtUl practised in the Jubah

islands, and along the coast. The formation of the

coast of E. Africa in these latitudes—where the hills

or downs upon the coast are all formed of a coral

conglomerate, comprising fragments of madrepore,

shell, and sand—renders it likely that the island

which was close to the main sixteen or seventeen

centuries ago, should now be united to it. Granting

this theory of gradual transform at ion of the coast-line,

the Menuthias of the "Periplas" may be supposed

to have stood in what is now the rich garden-land

of Shamba, where the rivers, carrying down mud to

mingle with the marine deposit of coral drift, covered

the choked-up estuary with a rich soil. (Cooley,

Ptolemy and the Silt, London, 1854, pp. 56—

68.) * [E. B. J.]

MERCU'RII PROM. ('Epjuofo tkxpa, Ptol. iv. 3.

§ 7; Pomp, Mela, i. 7. § 2 ; Plin. v. 3), the most

northerly point of the const of Africa, to the E. of the

gulf of Carthage, now Cape Bon, or the Rat Adddr

of the natives. [E. B. J.]

MERGABLUM, a town of Hispania Baetira, on

the road from Gades to Malaca, now Brger dt la

Miel. {Mem. de tAcad. des Iiiscr. xxx. p. 111.)

MERINUM. [Garoaxvs.]

MERMESSUS (Mtpfxn(r<r6s or Mupmovro's), a

town in Troas or Mysia, belonging to the territory

of Lampsacns, was celebrated in antiquity as the

native place of a sibyl (Steph. B. t. r.; Pans. x. 12.

§ 2; Lactant. i. 6, 12, where it is called Marmessus;

Suid. *. r.); but its exact site is unknown. [L. S.]

MERORR1CA. [Mikoiirioa.]

ME'KOE (Meptfij, Herod, ii. 29: Diod. i. 23,

sen,.; Strab. xviii. p. 821; Plin. ii. 73. s. 78, t. 9.

b. 10; Steph. B. *.».: Eth. Mtpoaios, Mtpowrios).

The kingdom of Meroe lay between the modern hamlet

of Khartoum, where the Astapus joins the true

Nile and the influx of the Astaboras into their

united streams, lat. 17° 40' N., long. 34° E.

Although described as an island by the ancient

geographers, it was properly an irregular space, like

Mesopotamia, included between two or morn con­

tinent rivers. According to Diodorus (i. 2.1) the

region of Meroe was 375 miles in length, and 125

in breadth; but Strabo (xviii. p. 821) regards these

numbers as referring to its circumference and dia­

meter respectively. On its eastern side it was

bounded by the A byssinian highlands; on the western

by the Libyan sands — the desert of Bahiouda. Its

extreme southern extremity was, according to a

survey made in the reign of Nero, 873 miles distant

from Syene. (Plin. vi. 29. s. 33.) Eratosthenes and

Artemidorus, indeed, reduced this distance to 625

and 600 miles. (Mannert, Gvy. <L Alton, x. p. 183.)

Within these limits Meroe was a region of singular

opulence, both as respects its mineral wealth and its

cereal and leguminous productions. It possessed,

on its eastern frontier, mines of gold, iron, copper,

and salt: its woods of date-palm, almond-trees, and

ilex yielded abundant supplies of both fruit and

timber for export and home consumption; its mea­

dows supported large herds of cattle, or produced

double harvests of millet (fPiottrra); and its forests

and swamps abounded with wild beasts and game,

which the natives caught and suited for food. The

banks of the Nile are so high in this region, that

Meroe derives no benefit from the inundation, and,

as rain falls scantily in the north, even in the wet

season (Strab. xv. p. 690), the lands remote from the

rivers must always have !>ecn nearly desert. Bat

the waste bore little proportion to the fertile lai>ls

in a tract so intersected with streams; the art

of irrigation was extensively practised; and to the

south, where the hills rise towards Abywinia. the

rains are sufficient to maintain a considerable decree

of fertility. The valley of the Astaboras (Tocaru)

is lower and warmer than the rest of Meroe.

Partly from its natural richness, and partly firm

its situation between Acthiopia and the Red t*a.—tfcs

regions which produced spice, and those which yieUrd

gold-dust, ivory, and precious stones,— Meme «u

from very early times the seat of an active and diver­

sified commerce. It was one of the capital centres of

the caravan trade from Libya Interior, from the haven

on the Red Sea, and from Aeirypt and Aethi-^oa.

It was, in fact, the receptacle and terminus of the

Libyan traffic from Carthage, on the one side, ani

from Adule and Berenice on the other. The mini

of its cities, so far as they have been explored, attest

its commercial prosperity.

The site of the city of Meroe was placed by

Eratosthenes (op. Stmb. xvii. p. 786) 700 stadia,

or nearly 90 miles, south of the junction of tbs

Nile with the Astaboras, lat. 16° 44'; and sorb

a position agrees with Philo's statement (ii. p. 77)

that the sun was vertical there 45 daya before the

summer solstice. (Comp. Plin. vi. 30.) The pyra­

mids scattered over the plains of this meaopotamUa

region indicate the existence of numerous citus

besides the capital. The ruins which have bees

discovered are, however, those of either temples or

public monuments, for the cities themselves, bring

built of palm-branches and bricks dried in the aim.

speedily crumbled away in a latitude to which tba

tropical rains partially extend. (Rttter, Africa,

p. 542.) The remains of Meroe itself all he be­

tween 16° and 17° 1st. N., and are not far (run

the Nile. The most southerly of them are found

at Naga-gebtUardan. Here hare been di>nnrr^d

the ruins of four temples, built in the Aegyp'.iaa

style, but of late date. The largest of them was

dedicated to the ram-headed deity Ammon. Tss)

principal portico of this temple m detached from tbs

main building,— an unusual practice in AegvpCtau

architecture,—and is approached through an a virus

of sphinxes, 7 feet high, and also bearing the rams

head. The sculptures, like those of A'*2ypt, re­

present historical events,— Ammon receiving tbt

homage of a queen, or a king holding his captives

by the hair, and preparing to strike off tbeir hesuts

with an axe. At Wood Saja, about a uale frca

the Astapus, are the remains of a sandstone trtrtf >.

89 feet in length, bearing on the capital of its

columns the figures and emblems of l*tah, AtH*-.

and Typhon. These ruins are amidst rrh-ui-t* < {

brick, which betoken the former presents of aa

extensive city. Again, 16 or 17 mile* west of tbs

Astapus, and among the hollows ««f the «and*tt*)*

hills, surrounded by the desert, are the ruin* of' / .!-

Mesaowat. Kight temples, connected with cos

another by galleries or colonnades, and divided inrw

courts and clusters, are here found. The »t»le %4

architecture is that of the era of the Ptolemies.

On (lie eastern bank, however, and about 2 stiles

from the river, are found groups of pyramids, »k-..i

mark the site of a necropolis and the neu:hbourhr«kt

of a city: they are 80 in number, ami of varWias

dimensions; the base of the largeet bring 63 ret

square, of the smallest less than 12 fret, lis

