RUSELLAE. RUSP1NUM. 859

'Ai (ii. 5) Dimes the place a Colonia, and so

• title appear* on coin*, col. rits, leg. vi.

itj alia it "Oppidum Latinoruin." It seems

Un ben a Colonia I-atina.

1> ume is incorrectly written Ruscione in the

timet kin. and in the Table. It is placed be.

mi Cwibmla [Count sta] and llliberis, and it j

-rinsfnted by CasteLHoussillon or the Tour de i  
wiiiii un the Tet, the ancient Ruscino, a short'

u&y from Prrpigntm, the capital of the French ■

ctnrut of the J'yrrnert Orientala. Ptrpitjnan

• ?~ llie high-road from France into Spain, and

n fc iw other great ruud in this part of the Py-

■a

hung is named Roaciliona in middle age docu-

-ti. jtiii from this name the inudern name Rout-  
m is derived. HoussilUm was a province of the

'-rttylutiotuuy history of France, and it corre­

al' U> the modern drpartment of Pyrenees

11» nrer Ruvino or Ruscinns is the Telis of

a(iLS),the 7VI; and we may probably con-

> ttul the true reading in Mela is Tetis. The

r «rs ia tiie Pyrenees, and flows past Perpigntm

■ iu Mediterranean, after a course of about 70

» Sjcnetimes it brings down a great quantity

ntter from the mountains. [ft. L.j

ASKLLAE (*Poi«r»'AAai: Elk. Rusellanus: Ho-

! in ancient and important city of Etruria.

akout 14 miles from the sea, and 3 from

n;ht bank of the river Onibrtme (Umbra). In

■ob with several of the ancient Etruscan cities,

Tery little information concerning its early

■ n, i..«L.'h there is no doubt of its great anti- j

r of its having been ut a very early period

■erfol and important city. There is every

ikury that it was one of the twelve which

s* the Etruscan League (Muiler, Etrunker^ vol.

JWl The first mention of it in history is

i; Lie reign of Taniiiinius Priscus, when it

d with Cloaiam, Arretium, Volaterrae, and

- in declaring war against the Roman king,  
tr*Ti the rest of the confederacy,— a sufficient

taai it mi at that time an independent and

BVn stale. (Dionya. iii. 51.) From this time

•r m mm of it until the Romans had carried

■ran bryond the Ciminian forest, when, in u. c.

-itctator M. Valerius Maximus carrieil his  
i-ra/er.tly for the first time, into the territory

Kv«iiar. and defeated the combined forces of

:r_».-»ns who were opposed to him. (Liv. x.

A few years later, in n. c. 294, the consul

• 1:1,10s MejrdJas not only laid waste the

■7 KuseiUie, but took the city itself by

Ukmg more than 2000 of the inhabitants

1% (Id. x. 37). No other mention of it occurs

'■I* period of KtruM-an independence; but

; Uat Second Puuic War the Kusellani ure

ti aiiMmg the " populi Ktruriuc" who came

4 with voluntary supplies to equip the fleet of

(ar-JOS), and furnished him with timber

ra (Id. xxviiL 45). It is evident that at this

EasvJb* waa atill one of the principal cities of

a We find no subsequent notice of it under

Tin Republic, but it was one of the places

d by Aofvutna to receive a colony (Pun. iii.

ZjTipt. 4* C'4"*- p- 347); notwithstanding

■ mw to hare fallen into decay; and though

» is mentioned by Ptolemy (iii. 1. § 48) we

rth an later notice of it in ancient times. It

'kewrver, altogether cease to exist till a much

later period, as it retained its episcopal see down to

the twelfth century, when it was transferred to the

neighbouring town of Groaeto. (Kepetti, Diz. Top.

vol. ii. pp. 526, 822.)

The site of Rusellae is now wholly desolate and

overgrown with thickets, which render it very diffi­

cult of access. But the plan may be distinctly

traced, and the line of the ancient walls may be

followed in detached fragments throughout their

entire circuit. It stood on the flat top of a hill of

considerable elevation, about 6 miles from the mo­

dern city of Grotseto, overlooking the broad valley

of the Ombrone and the level plain of the Ataremma,

which extends from thence to the sea. The walls

follow the outline of the hill, and enclose a space of

ubout 2 miles in circuit. They are constructed of

very rude and massive stones, in some places with

an approach to horizontal structure, similar to that

at Volterra and l'opulonia j but in other parts they

lose all traces of regularity, and present (according

to Mr. Dennis) a strong resemblance to the rudest

and most irregular style of Cyclopiun construction,

as exemplified in the walls of Tiryns in Argolis.

(Dennis's Etruria, vol. ii. pp. 248, 249.) The

sites of six gates may be traced; but there are no

indications of the manner in which the gateway

itself was formed. Within the walls are some frag­

ments of rectangular masonry anil some vaults of

Roman construction. It is remarkable that no traces

of the necropolis — so often the most interesting

remnant of an Etruscan city — have yet been dis­

covered at Ru-ellae. But the site is so wild and so

little visited, that no excavations have been carried

on there. (Dennis, /. c. p. 254.)

About 2 miles from the ruins, and 4 from Grot-

teto, are tome hot-springs, now called I Jlayni di

Hostile. On a hill immediately above them are the

mediaeval ruins of a town or castle called Motcona,

which have been often mistaken for those of Husellac.

(Dennis, /. c.) [E. II. II]

RUSGU'NIA (/Vm.-Inf.; 'PowrroVioy, Ptol. iv.

2. § 6), a town of Mauretania, and a colonia, which

lay 15 M. P. to the E. of Icosium. Its ruins have

been found near Cope MutaJ'u or Temeiulfuz (B irth,

Wanderungen, p. 55). For an account of these,

see Authmd, 1837, No. 144. [E. B. J.]

RUSIOADE (Plin. v. 2; Mela, i. 7. § 1; 'Puufff-

koJo, Ptol. iv. 3. § 3; Rusiccade, Itin. Ant., PeuL

Tab.), the harbour of Cirta in Numidia, and a Roman

colonia, at the mouth of the small river TiiAPst;s

(Vib. Seq. d« Flum. p. 19: U. So/an), and probably

therefore identical with the Tuafsa (9a^u). n

harbour-town, of Scylax (p. 50). Its site is near

Slora; and the modern town of Philippetille, the

Hds-Skikxlti of the Arabs, is made in jiart of the

materials of the old Rusicade (Barth, Wnndeningen,

p. 66). [E. B. J.]

RUSIDA'VA. [Dacia, p. 744, b.J

RUSPE (feat Tub.; 'PoDnwai al. 'PoD<rir«, Ptol.

iv. 3. § 10), a town of Numidia between Ai holla and

Usilla, near the Caput Vadokum (Corippus, Jo-

hann. i. 366: C. K'ubbdhh). and the toe of Fulgen-

tius, well-known in the Pelagian controversy j be

was expelled from it by the Vandal Thrasiinund.

Barth (Wmnlerungtn, p. 177) found remains at

.ScA<46o. [E. B. J.]

RUSPI'NUM ('Poi«nru-o>', Strab. xvii. p. 831;

Ruspina, Auct. B. A/r. 6; Plin. v. 3; Prut. Tab.),

a town of Africa Proper, where Caesar defeated

Scipio, and which he afterwards made his [losition

while waiting for reinforcements. It is probably the

