SPARTA. SPARTA 102".

by tins wall there are two terraces,

- 3 me of which, amidst the rains of a church, the  
■- 'b Commission discovered traces of an ancient

ip>. In this space there are also some ancient

n. farmed of three stones, two upright with the

'Unrre, buried in the ground; but no conjecture

: be farmed of toe building to which they belonged

boat excavations.

n» bill we have been describing is the largest of

tat Spartan heights, and is distinguished by the

! which surrounds it, and by containing traces of

: iations of some ancient buildings. From it two

illrr hills project towards the Eurotas, parallel

ar another, and which may be regarded as por-

.1 ifthe larger hill. Upon the more southerly of the

there are considerable remains of a circular brick

i.r.r, which Leake calls a circus, but Curtius an

l>.theatre or odeum (Map, 3). Its walls are 16

Lhick, and its diameter only about 100 feet; but as

f.'jajs to the Roman period, it was probably suf-

3'. for the diminished population of the city at

tuna. Its entrance was on the side towards the

& West of this building is a valley in the form

nnrac-ahoe, enclosed by walls of earth, and ap-

stiy a stadium, to which its length nearly cor-

lawa.

') the north of the hollow way leading from the

Ft of the Eurotas to Magiila there is a small

kid hilL with a Hat summit, but higher and

■ precipitous than the larger hill to the south of

way. It contains but few traces of ancient

tines (Map, B.). At its southern edge there are

nmjua* of an aqueduct of later times,

b* two hills above mentioned, north and south of

way, formed lite northern half of Sparta,

portion of the city occupied the plain be-

a the southern hill and the rivulet falling into

r. ir.tas, sometimes called the River of Magiila,

a» it flows past that village, but more usually

»i'ib>, from Trypi, a village in the mountains

a, cr). Two canals, beginning at Magula, run

t tiaa plain: upon the southern one (Map, 66),

ib. me its junction with the Trypiotiko, stands

anal] village of Ptychiko (Map, 6). Between

ranal and the Trypiotiko are some heights

which the town of New Sparta is now built

tf» ). Here are several ancient ruins, among

are some remains of walls at the southern

■ r. which look like city-walls. The plain

r i tie heights of New Sparta and the hill of

heatrr is covered with corn-fields and gardens,

g which are seen fragments of wrought stones,

■Cher ancient remains, cropping out of the

*L The only remains which make any appear-  
. .» the ground are those of a quadrangular

cr. eallal try the present inhabitants the tomb

. j iaa. It is 22 feet broad and 44 feet long,

■ built of ponderous square blocks of stone,

s probably an beroum, but cannot have been

tab of Leouidas, which we know, from Pausa-

flit, 14. § l)i was noar the theatre, whereas

atUing ia close to the new town.

s plain is separated from the Eurotas bya range

k which extend from the Roman amphitheatre

nss to the village of Ptychiko. Between the

ad thai river is a level tract, which is not much

than SO yards wide below the Roman amphi-

r. bat above and below the latter it swells into

I of s quarter of a mile in breadth. Beyond

rer Trypiotiko there are a few traces of the

tinrn of ancient buildings near the little

village of Kalagonii (Map, 7). Leake mentions

an ancient bridge over the Trypiotiko, about a

quarter of a mile NE. of the village of Kalv-

gonia. This bridge, which was still in use when

Leake visited the district, is described by him as

having a rise of about one-third of the span, and

constructed of large single blocks of stone, reach­

ing from side to side. The same traveller noticed

a part of the ancient causeway remaining at either

end of the bridge, of the same solid construction.

But as this bridge is not noticed by the French

Commission, it probably no longer exists, having

been destroyed for its materials. (Leake, Morea,

vol. i. p. 157, Peloponntsiaca, p. 115.)

Such is the site of Sparta, and such is all that

now remains of this famous city. There cannot be

any doubt, however, that many interesting dis­

coveries might be made by excavations; and that at

any rate the foundations of several ancient buildings

might be found, especially since the city was never

destroyed in ancient times. Its present appearance

corresponds wonderfully to the anticipation of Thu-

cydides, who remarks (i. 10) that " if the city of the

Lacedaemonians were deserted, and nothing remained

but its temples and the foundations of its buildings,

men of a distant age would find a difficulty in be­

lieving in the existence of its former power, or that

it possessed two of the five divisions of Pelopon­

nesus, or that it commanded the whole country, as

well as many allies beyond the peninsula,—so in­

ferior was the appearance of the city to its fame,

being neither adorned with splendid temples and

edifices, nor built in contiguity, but in separate

quarters, in the ancient method. Whereas, if Athens

were reduced to a similar state, it would be supposed,

from the appearance of the city, that the power had

been twice as great as the reality." Compared with

the Acropolis of Athens, which rises proudly from

the plain, still crowned with the columns of its

glorious temples, the low hills on the Eurotas, and

the shapeless heap of rains, appear perfectly insig­

nificant, and present nothing to remind the spectator

of the city that once ruled the Peloponnesus and the

greater part of Greece. The site of Sparta differs

from that of almost all Grecian cities. Protected

by the lofty ramparts of mountains, with which

nature had surrounded their fertile valley, the Spar­

tans were not obliged, like the other Greeks, to live

within the walls of a city pent up in narrow streets,

but continued to dwell in the midst of their planta­

tions and gardens, in their original village trim.

It was this rural freedom and comfort which formed

the chief charm and beauty of Sparta.

It must not, however, be supposed that Sparta was

destitute of handsome public buildings. Notwith­

standing the simplicity of the Spartan habits, their

city became, after the Messcnian wars, one of the chief

scats of poetry and art. The private houses of the

Spartans always continued rude and unadorned, in

accordance with a law of Lycurgus, that the dttors

of every house were to be fashioned only with the

saw, and the ceiling with the axe (Plut. I.gc. 13);

but this regulation was not intended to discourage

architecture, but to prevent it from ministering to

private luxury, and to restrain it to its proper ob­

jects, tho buildings for the gods and the state. The

palace of the kings remained so simple, that its doors

in the time of Agesilaus were said to be those of

the original building erected by Aristodemus, tho

founder of the Spartan monarchy (Xen. Agtt. 8.

§ 7); but the temples of the gods were built with

3 U

