I 52 LECTOCE, AD LEBAKA.

Ar' avrni (i. e. rjjj inJAiwr) rb &\(rot tov Tf>r>?w~

viov, where there is little doubt that woTauds, or

some equivalent term, must be applied as the

nominative of tuipyti. The ancient city would, in

that case, have stuod on the right or eastern bank

of the river, which also appears probable from the

numerous fragments of antiquity still scattered over

tiie eminence on this side of the river; and the prove

of Truphnnius would have been on the western side

of the stream, on which the greater part of the

modern town stands.

The mast remarkable object in the prove of Tro-

phonius was the temple of the hero, containing his

statue by Praxiteles, resembling a statue of Ascle-

pius; a temple of Demeter, sumutned Europe; a

sUtue of Zeus Hyetius (i'luvius) in the open air;

and higher up, upon the mountain, the oracle (to

ftaMTtlov). Still higher up was the hunting place of

1'ersephone; a large unfinished temple of Zeus Ila-

sileus, a temple of Apollo, and another temple, con-

taining statues of Cronus, Zeus, and Hera. 1'nu.ia- >

nias likewise mentions a chapel of the Good Daemon

and of Good Fortune, where those who were going to

con>nlt tlif oracle first passed a certain number of

days.

In the Turkish mosque, now converted into a

church of the 1'anagia, on the western side of the

river, three inscrijitions have been found, one of

which contains a dedication to Trophonius, and the

other a catalogue of dedications in the temple of

Trophonius. (See Bockh, Inter. 1571, 1583.)

Hence it has been inferred that the temple of

Trophouius occupied this site. Near the fountain

of A'rya there is a square chamber, with seats cut

out of the rock, which may perhaps be t!it chapel

of the Good Daemon and Good Fortune. Near this

chamber is a cavern, which is usually regarded as

the entrance to the oracle. It is 25 feet in depth,

and teruiin.ites in a hollow filled witli water, but

this mold not have been the oracle, since the latter,

according to the testimony lsith of I'iiu->anias and

Phiiostratus, was not situated in the valley u|wn

the liercyna. but higher up upon the mountain.

(1'aus. ix. 39. § 4; Philostr. ViL Apoll. viii. 19.)

Mure justly expresses his surprise that Leake, after

quoting the description of l'ausanios, who says that

the oracle was ixl too 6povt, should suppose that

it was situated at the foot of the hill. A person who

consulted the oracle descended a well constructed of

masonry, 12 feet in depth, at the bottom of which

was a small opening on the bide of the wall. Upon

rcadiing the bottom he lay upon his hack and in­

troduced his legs into the hole, when upon a sudden

the rest of bis body was rapidly carried forward

into the sanctuary. The site of the oracle has not

jet been disc vered, and is not likely to be, without

an extensive excavation. An account of the rites

observed in consulting the oracle is given in the

Did. of Antiq. p. 841, 2nd ed. (Dodwcll, Tour

through Greece, vol. L p. 216, srq.; Leake, Northern

Greece, voL ii. p. 118, seq.; Mure, Tour in Greece,

vol. i. p. 233, scq.; Ulriclis, Reiten in Griechen-

Iand, p. 164, seq.)

LEBAEA (Attain), an ancient city in Upper

Macedonia, and the residence of the early Macedonian

kings, mentioned only by Herodotus (viii. 137).

LEBEN (AtfijK, Strab. x. p 478) or LEBEN'A

(ArtVo, FtoL iii. 17. § 4; Staduum.; Plin. iv. 12;

At€trn, Paus. ii. 26. § 7; Lcdeoa, I'eul. Tab.).

a maritime town of Crete, which was a harbour of

Ourtyna, about 70 stadia inland. (Strab. I. r.) It

possessed a temple of Asclepins, of great celebrity

(Philostrat. Yit. Apollim. ix. 11), and is represents

by the modem hamlet of Leda. (Hock, Kreta, voL

i. pp. 8,394,399.) [E. B. J.J

LEBECII. [Libici.]

LEBED'ONTIA, a town upon the coast of Ilu-

pania Tarraconensis, situated u|*"ii the mountain

Sellus, at no great distance from Tarraco. It i>

mentioned only by Avienus {Or. Marii. 509), in

who^e time, however, it had cea>cd to exist.

LK'UEDOS (AttttSos: £lh. Axftoios), an an­

cient city on the western coast of Asia Minor, 90

stadia to the cast of Cape Myonnesus, and 120 to

the north-west of Colophon. (Strab. xiv. p. 643.)

The place was originally inhabited by Cariaits, muii,

on the immigration of the loniaus into Asia, it was

taken possession of by thein under the guidance of

Andraeuion, a son of Codrus. (Pans. vii. 3. § 2.)

Strabo (xiv. p. 633), however, in speaking of the

foundation of the Ionian cities, states that it was

colonised by Andropompus and bis followers, hating

previously borne the name of Artis: the tomb oV

Andraeinon, moreover, was shown in the neighbour­

hood of Colophon, on the road crossing the river

Hales. (1'aus. L c) For a long time Lebedos

continued to be a city flourishing by its commerce,

the fertility of its territory, and the excellent hot

mineral springs in its neighbourhood, which still

exist. (Ilccat. Fraym. 219; Herod, i. 142'; Thucyd.

viii. 19.) It was afterwards nearly destroyed by

Lysimachus, who transplanted its population u>

Ephesus (1'aus. 1. c. i. 9. § 8); after which time

Lebedos appears to have fallen more and more inUi

decay, so that in the days of Horace it was more de­

serted than Gabii or Fidenac. (Epitt. i 11. 7.) It

is mentioned, however, as late as the 7th century of

the Christian era (Aeliau, V. B. viii. 5; 1'tol. v.

2. § 7; Mela, i. 17; Plin. U. A', v. 31; Hirrocles,

p. GGO) ; and the Romans, in order to raise the placr

in some measure, established there the company »f

actors (Tf^iTai wtpl rbv AioKwrui-) who bad

formerly dwelt in Tens, whence during a ciwl cuin-

motion they withdrew to Ephesus. At talus afu-r-

wards transplanted them to Myonnesus; and the

Romans, at the request of the Teians, transferred

them to Lebedos, where they were very welcome, a*

the place was very thinly inhabited. At Lebedos

the actors of all Ionia as far as the Hellespont had

ever after an annual meeting, at which games were

celebrated in honour of Dionysus. (Strab. xiv.

p. C43.) The site of Lebedos is marked by aunw

ruins, now called KccUsia or Xingi, and con*i»ting

of masses of naked stone and bricks, with conenu

There also exists the basement and an entire flour

of a small temple; and nearer the sea there are

traces of ancient walls, and a few fragments of LV-ric

columns. (Chandler's ^Isia Minor, p. 125.) [L. X]

I.EBINTHUS (Atocfloj), a small island iu the

Aegaean sea, one of the Sporades, NE. of Amurfru*.

between which and Lebinthus lies the still smaller

island Cinarus. (Strab x. p. 487 ; Stepb. B. : r.

Ap«irelwi; Plin. iv. 12. s. 23; Mela, ii. 7, 11 ; Or.

Mel. viii. 222, Ar.Am.llSX; Ross, Arise* on/dm

Griech. lutein, vol. ii. p. 56.)

LEBONAH, a town of Palestine, north of Shiloh,

identified by ManndrcH with Lebim, a village 4 hours

S. of \,iplut. (Judy. xxi. 19; Winer, Bibluch. AW-

wurtcrbwh, $. p.)

LEBUNI. [Llbitasia.]

LECHAEUM. [CowxTiirs, p. 682.]

LECTUCE, AD, iu Gallia Narbuncnsis, u placed

