JERUSALEM. JERUSALEM. 25

accounts for the firm hold with which they main'

tained their possession of their stronghold, the capital

of their tribe, for upwards of five centuries after the

coining in of the children of Israel under Joshua

(cir. a. c 1585); during which period, according to

Josephus, they held uninterrupted and exclusive

possession of the Upper City, while the Israelites

(whether of the tribe of Judah or of Benjamin is un­

certain) seem only to have occupied the Lower

City for a time, and then to have been expelled

by the garrison of the Upper City. (Joseph. Ant. v.

2. §§ 2, 5, 7; camp. Judges, i. 8, 21, xix. 10—12.)

2. It was not until after David, having reigned

seven years in Hebron, came into undisputed posses­

sion of the kingdom of Israel, that Jerusalem was

finally subjugated (cir. B.c. 1049) and the Jebusite

garrison expelled. It was then promoted to the

dignity of the capital of his kingdom, and the Upper

and Lower City were united and encircled by one

wall. (1 Chron. xi. 8; comp. Joseph. Ant. vii. 3.

Under his son Solomon it became also the eccle­

siastical head of the nation, and the Ark of the

Covenant, and the Tabernacle of the Congregation,

alter having been long dissevered, met on the thresh­

ing-floor of Araunah the Jebusite, on Mount Moriah.

(1 Chron. xxi. 15; 2 Chron. iii. 1.) Besides erect­

ion the Temple, king Solomon further adorned the

city with palaces and public buildings. (1 Kings,

vi. viii. 1—8.) The notices of the city from this

period are very scanty. Threatened by Shisbak,

king of Egypt (b. c. 972), and again by the Arabians

under 7-erah (cir. 950), it was sacked by the com­

bined Philistines and Arabs during the disastrous

reign of Jehoram (884), and subsequently by the

Israelites, after their victory over Amaziah at

Bethshemesh (cir. B. c. 808). In the invasion of

the confederate armies of Pckah of Israel and Rezin

of Syria, during the reign of Ahaz, the capital

barely escaped (cir. 730; comp. Isaiah, vii. 1—9,

and 2 Kings, xvi. 5, with 2 Chron. xxviii. 5); as it

did in a still more remarkable manner in the follow­

ing reign, when invested twice, as it would seem, by

the generals of Sennacherib, king of Assyria (it. c.

713). The deportation of Manasseh to Babylon

would seem to intimate that the city was cap­

tured by the Chaldeans as early as 650; but the

fact is not recorded expressly in the sacred nar­

rative. (2 Chron. xxxiii.) From this period its

disasters thickened apace. After the battle of

Mezuldo it was taken by Pharaoh Necho, king of

Egypt (b. c 609), who held it only about two

years, when it passed, together with the whole

country under the sway of the Chaldeans, and

Jeboiakim and some of the princes of the blood

mval were carried to Babylon, with part of the

sarred vessels of the Temple. A futile attempt on

the part of Jehoiakim to regain his independence

after his restoration, resulted in his death; and his

son had only been seated on his tottering throne

three months when Nebuchadnezzar again besieged

and took the city (598), and the king, with the

rutal family and principal officers of state, were

carried to Babylon, Zedekiah having been appointed

by the conqueror to the nominal dignity of king.

Having held it nearly ten years, he revolted, when

the city was a third time besieged by Nebuchad­

nezzar (b. c 587). The Temple and all the build­

ings of Jerusalem were destroyed by fire, and its

walls completely demolished.

3. As the entire desolation of the city does not

appear to have continued more than fifty years, the

"seventy years" must date from the first depor­

tation; and its restoration was a gradual work, as

the desolation had been. The first commission

issued in favour of the Jews in the first year of

Cyrus (B.C. 538) contemplated only the restoration

of the Temple, which was protracted, in consequence

of numerous vexatious interruptions, for 120 years,

— i. e. until the eighth year of Darius Nothus (b.c

418). According to the most probable chronology

it was his successor, Artaxerxes Mnemon, who

issued the second commission to Ezra, in the se­

venth year of his reign, and a third to Kehemiah in

his twentieth year (b. c. 385). It was only in

virtue of the edict with which ho was intrusted,

backed by the authority with which he was armed

as the civil governor of Palaestine, that the resto­

ration of the city was completed; and it has been

before remarked that the account of the rebuilding

of the walls clearly intimates that the limits of the

restored city were identical with that of the pre­

ceding period: but the topographical notices arc not

sufficiently clear to enable us to determine with any

degree of accuracy or certainty the exact line of the

walls. (See the attempts of Schultz, pp. 82—91;

and Williams, Memoir, 111—121.) Only fifty years

after its restoration Jerusalem passed into the power

of a new master (b. c. 332), when, according to

Josephus, the conqueror visited Jerusalem, after

the subjugation of Gaza, and accorded to its in­

habitants several important privileges (Josephus,

Ant. xi. 8). On the death of Alexander, and the

division of his conquests among his generals, it was

the ill-fortune of Judaea to become the frontier pro­

vince of the rival kingdoms of Egypt and Syria; and

it was consequently seldom free from the miseries of

war. Ptolemy Sotcr was the first to seize it,—by

treachery, according to Josephus (b. c. 305), who

adds that he ruled over it with violence. (Ant. xii.

1.) But the distinctions which he conferred upon

such of its inhabitants as he carried into Egypt,

and the privileges which he granted to their high

priest, Simon the son of Onias, do not bear out this

representation (Ecclus. 1. I, 2.) But his successor,

Ptolemy Philadelphus, far outdid him in liberality;

and the embassy of his favourite minister Aristeas,

in conjunction with Andreas, the chief of his body­

guard, to the chief priest Eleazar, furnishes us with

an apparently authentic, and certainly genuine,

account of the city in the middle of the third cen­

tury before the Christian era, of which an outline

may be here given. "It was situated in the midst

of mountains, .on a lofty hill, whose crest was

crowned wilh the magnificent Temple, girt with three

walls, seventy cubits high, of proportionate thick­

ness and length corresponding to the extent of the

building The Temple had an eastern aspect:

its spacious courts, paved throughout with marble,

covered immense reservoirs containing large supplies

of water, which gushed out by mechanical con­

trivance to wash away the blood of the numerous

sacrifices offered there on the festivals The

foreigners viewed the Temple from a strong fortress

on its north side, and describe the appearance which

the city presented It was of moderate extent,

being about forty furlongs in circuit. The

disposition of its towers resembled the arrangement

of a theatre: Home of the streets ran along the

brow of the hill; others, lower down, but parallel to

these, followed the course of the valley, and they

were connected by cross streets. The city was built

