636 PITYUSAE.

UiTv6((T(Ta), literally, "abounding in pine-trees."

1. An island oil* the promontory Scyllaeum, or Iiu-

cephala, in Troezenia in Argolis. (Pans, ii. 34. § 8.)

Pliny mentions (iv. 12. s. 19) an island Pityuaa in

the Argolie gulf, but from the Older in which it

occurs in Pliny,it would seem to be adherent island

from the preceding.

2. One of the Demonnesi in the Propontis, accord­

ing to Hesychius (*. «.). [Dkmonnksi.]

PITYU'SAE (UirvovaaL or Tliruovtrffai, Strab.

iii. p. 167; Ptol. ii. 6. § 77). two islands on

the S. coast of Spain. 700 stadia, or nearly 100

miles from Dianium (Plin. iii. 5. s. 11; Liv. xxviii.

37). Their position is thus defined by Diodorus

(v. 17): they arc three nights'and days'sail from

the. Columns of Hercules, one day's sail from Iberia,

and one day and night from Libya; whilst,according

to the Itinerary (p. 511), they were 300 stadia

from the Baleares, and 400 from Cart lias;o Spar-

taria, or Ctirthatjena. The larger of the two islands

was called Kbusus {"E€uiraos, PtoL /. C.), the smaller

.Opliiusa ('Otpiuvaaa, lb.); and as they are only

separated by a narrow strait, and as Opliiusa, from

its small size, was unimportant, they are sometimes

confounded together as one island by the ancients

(Died. v. IG; Liv. I.e.; Dioscor. i. 92, &c.) Their

name of Pityusae was derived, like that of many

other ancient places, from the abundance of pine-

trees which grew upon them. They were 46 miles

in extent, Diodorus (I. C.) compares Kbusus with

Coreyra for size; and according to Strabo (I. c.)

it was 400 stadia in circumference, and of about

equal length and breadth. It was billy in some

parts, and not very fruitful, producing but little oil

and wine; but its figs were good, and it afforded

excellent pasturage. Snakes and noxious animals

were not found upon it, whilst, on the contrary, the

smaller island abounded in serpents to such a de­

gree that it seems to hare taken its name from

them (Plin. iii. 14, xv. 21, xxxv. 59, &c.; Mela,

ii. 7; Avicn. DtJtcr. Orb. 621, &c). The chief

town, also named Kbusus, which lay on the SE. side

of the island, was a civitas foederata, and had a

mint. (Ramus, Cat Sum. vet Grate, ef L<d. Mas.

Reg. Amine, i. p. 13.) It was a well-built city

with a good harbour, and was the resort of many

barbarians and foreigners, especially Phoenicians.

(Strab., Mela, Diod., U. cr.) The larger island is

now Iviza, the smaller, Formentara. [T. H. 1).]

PLACEN'TIA (TUaworia: Etk. riacentinus:

Piaeenza), a city of Gallia Cispadana,situated near

the S. hank of the Padus, just below the point where

it receives the waters of the Trebia. It was on the

Via Aemilia, of which it originally fonned the ter­

mination, that road being in the first instance carried

from Arimtnum to Plaoentia; and was 40 miles distant

from I'anna. We have no account of the existence

of a town on the spot previous to the establishment

of the Roman colony, which was settled there in

B.C. 219, after the great Gaulish war, at the same

time with Cremona. (Liv. EpiU xx; Veil. Pat. i. 14;

Pol. iii. 40; Ascoo. in Piton. p. 3.) It consisted

of not less than 6000 colonists, w ith Latin rights.

But the new colony was scarcely founded, and its

walls hardly completed, when the news of the ap­

proach of Hannibal produced a general rising of the

neighbouring Gauls, the Boians and Insubriana, who

attacked Plaoentia, ravaged its territory, and drove

many of the colonists to take refuge at Mutina; but

were unable to effect anything against the city

itself, which was still in the bands of the llomuns

in the following ye

of the arniv of Sd

of the Trebia. (

59, 63; Apptan, )

the same srar, in u

colonies which pro

eat need, and can

quota of supplies

older colonies faile

Shortly after this

drub.il, who was

he had crossed tb

alpine Gaul, and b

valuable time. A

compelled to abant

bis march into Ita

(Id. xxvii. 39, 43/

fortunate, having

sudden in^urrectioi

plundered and bui

greater part of the

xxxi. 10.) After

rius, about 2000

occasion were rest

years afterwards L

at Cremona and P

far as possible all tJ

the war, (Id. xx

were still exposed I

Liguriaus; and in i

waste by the Utter

(Id. xxxiv. 56.) 1

them, in b. c. 190,

tettlers, to remedy

fresh body of 300

each of the old coi

while new ones sho

of the Boil (Id.

later the consul M.

subjection of the

brated road, which i

from Ariminum to

from this time the

by this part of Ital

state of great pros

doubt that Placen

little of it during

appears to have be*

towns of Cispadar

Marius and Sulla,

ceutia, in which tl

feated by Lucullu

(Appian, U. C. i. 9

and l'ompey, b. c.

mutiny broke out

which at one time

pect, and was only

and authority of 1

47; Dion Cass. xlt.

to have beeu at Urn

monly selected as

troops in this part

It was again the at

tiny of the legions I

War, n. c. 41. (I

Cicero notices 1*1

republican jeriod;

rank must have bo

cipal condition in

b. c. 90. (Cic, i

;•<■>.!) But unde

