12) LANUVIUM. LANGOBARDL

afterwards they shook off the yoke, and, in conjnnc-

tirtt with the Semnoncs, joined the confederacy of the

Ch^rus/ans azainat the Marcomanni. (Tac. Ann. ii.

45.) When, in consequence of the murder of Armi-

nias, the power of the Cheruscans was decaying more

and more, the Langobardi not on It supported and

restored Italus, the king of the Cheruscans who bad

been expelled, but seem to have extended their own

territory in the south, so as to occupy the country

between Halle, Magdeburg, and Leipzig. (Tac. .-inn.

xi. 17.) They were not a numerous tribe, but their

want of numbers was made up for by their natural

bravery (Tac. Germ, 40), and Velleius describes

tbem as a "gens etiam Gennana feritate ferocior."

.Shortly after these events the Langobardi disappear

from history, until they are mentioned again by

Ptolemy (tc), who places them in the extensive

territory between the Rhine and Water, and even

beyond the latter river almost as far as the Kibe,

They thus occupied the country which had formerly

been inhabited by the tribes forming the Cheruscan

confederacy. This great extension of their territory

shows that their power must have been increasing

ever aince their liberation from the yoke of Maro-

bmluus. After this lime we again hear nothing of

the langobardi for a considerable period. They are

indeed mentioned, in an excerpt from the history of

I'etrn* Patricias (Exc. de I^gat. p. 124), as allies

of the Obii on the frontiers of i'annonia; but other­

wise history is silent about tb'-rn, until, in the second

half of the 5th rentury, they appear on the north of

the Danube in Upper Hungary as tributary to the

Heruli (Procop. de Bell Goth. ii. 15, who describes

tbem as Christians). Whether these Langobardi,

however, were the Mime people whom we last met

with between the Rhine and the Kibe, or whether

they were only a band of emigrants who had in the

r/»ur-e of time become ho numerous as to form a

dtatvet tribe, is a question which cannot be answered

with certainty, although the latter seems to be the

m<rre probable supposition. Their natural love of

freedom rould not bear to submit to the rule of the

Heruli, and after having defeated the king of the

Utter in a preat battle,they subdued the neighbouring

Quadi, likewise a Suevian tribe, and henceforth they

were for a long time the terror of their neighbours

and the Roman province of Pannonia. (Paul. Mac.

1. *12.) For, being the most powerful nation in those

part*, they extended their dominion down the Danube,

and occupied the extensive plaiits in the north of

Dana on the river Theiss, where they first came in

conflict with the (iepidae, and entered I'annonia.

(Paul. Disc i. 20.) The emperor Justinian, wanting

their support against the (iepidae, gave them lands

and supplied them with money (Procop. Hell. Goth.

lii. 33), ami under their king Audoin they gained a

great victory over the Gepidae. (Paul. Disc i. 25;

Procop, Bell Goth. iii. 34, iv. 18, 25.) Alboin,

Audotn s successor, after having, in conjunction with

the Avari, completely overthrown the empire of the

Gepidae, led the Langobardi, in a. d. 568, into Italy,

where they permanently established themselves, and

founded the kingdom from which down to this day

the north-east of Italy bears the name of Lombanly.

(Exc. de Leant, pp. 303, .104; Marius Kpiac Chron.

Hone. ii. 412.) The occasion of their invading Italy

is related as follows. When Alboin bad concluded

his alliance with the Avari, and had ceded to tbem

his own dominion*, Narscs, to take revenge Up"n

Justin, invited them to ipiit their poor comrry and

<*ke posscssioa of the fertile plains of Italy. Alboin

accordingly crowed the Alps, and as the north of

Italy was badly defended, lie succeeded in a abort

time in establishing hit kingdom, which continued ta

flourish until it was overpowered and destroyed by

Charlemagne. (Paul. Diac. ii. 5; Kginhard, I'tt.

Carol M. 6.) The history of this singular people,

whose name still survives, has been written in Latin

by Paul us Diaconus (Warnefried), in the reign of

Charlemagne, and by another Lombard of the 9th

century, whose name is unknown. (Comp. Wilbrim,

Germanien, p. 281, foil.; Zeuss, die IteuUchem e*W

die Xachbarstumme, p. 109, foil.; F. Dufft. Qw**-

tiones de Antiquittima Longobardorum Hilton*,

Berlin, 1830, 8vo.; Knch-Sternfeld, das Jieick oVr

I/mgobarden in Italien, Munich, 1839; Latham.

Tac. Germ. p. 139, and Kpileg. p. Ixxxiv.) [LS. ]

LAKGOBRI'GA. [Lusitania.J

LANU'VIUM (Aorotftor, Strab.; Aaroo€ior,

Ptol.: F.th. Aavovios, Lanuvinus: Civita Larmia\

an ancient and important city of Latium, situated on

a lofty hill forming a projecting spur or promontory

of the Alban Hills towards the S. It was distaut

about 20 miles from Home, on the right of the Apr.* an

Way, rather more tluin a mile from the road. The

name is often written in inscriptions, even of a good

time, Isonivittm; hence the confusion which baa

arisen in all our MSS. of ancient authors between it

and iMrmium: the two names are so frequently'

interchanged as to leave constant doubt which uf

the two is really meant, and in the middle are*

they appear to have been actually regarded as tr»e

same place; whence the name of " Civitas Lavinia"

by which Lanuvium is still known, and which

can be traced as far back as the fourteenth centmrj.

The foundation of Lanuvium was ascribed by a tra­

dition recorded by Appian (B. C. ii. 20) to Diomed;

a legend probably arising from tome fancied con­

nection with the worship of Juno at Argos. A tra­

dition that has a more historical aspect, thoojrh

perhaps little more historical worth, represented it

as one of the colonies of Alba. (Died. vii. as*.

Ktuteb. Arm. p. 185.) The statement of Cato (op.

Priscian. iv. 4. § 21) that it was one of the due*

which co-operated in the consecration of the cele­

brated temple of Diana at Aricia. is the first fat-t

concerning it that can be looked upon as historical,

and shows that Lanuvium was already a city of

consideration and power. Its name ap[*ars also in

the list given by Dionysios of the cities that fora-M

the league against Home in B. c. 496, and there ta

no doubt that it was in fact one of the thirty citie*

of the Latin League. (Dionys. v. 61; Niebuhr,

vol. ii p. 17.) But from this time we bear Utile

of it, except that it was the faithful ally of Bom*

during her lung wars with the Vulscians and

Aequians (Liv. vi. 21): the position of Unanum

would indeed cause it to be one of the cities mo*t

immediately interested in opposing the prugrtaa tsf

the Volscians, and render it as it were the natural

rival of Antium. We have no explanation of the

causes which, in B.c 383, led the Lannvtans and-

denly to chance their policy, and take up anna, to­

gether with some other Latin cities, in favour of the.

Volscians (Liv. vi. 21). They must have shared

in the defeat of their allies near Satricum; but ap­

parently were admitted to submission on iavourahie

terms, and we hear no more of them till the graft

Latin War in s.c 340, in which they look an

active and important part. At first, ioderd, tr*r

t*rm to have hesitated and delayed to take the

field; but in the two last campaigns their force* am

