xilus. 435 KILL'S.

fa tin month of the river upon the plain of

DdU. (Diador. i. 38—»0.) This, however,

tbc;fc partially true, will n»t account for the inun-

i of Upper Aegypt, or for the periodical rising

(tk men X. of Aethiopia, It was attributed

btWcmtnertioD of the Nile with the irn-.it South-

0 (km, whose waters, from long exposure to the

an, nm dffriTfd, it was thought, of their saline

Bjrsiisati is their coarse through the Kile-valley.

fZWcr. i 40.) By Ephoros (ed. Marx, p. 23) it

psissritsa1frottexudation through the sands; while

bbwXi* PBggestcd that the verticil position of the

■Be sister reduced the waters of Southern Libja

1 %nV kwwt ebb. Bat this hypothesis kept out of

I afcit their ortrhW in summer. Agatharchides of

t who wrote in the second century b. c, was the

I teAmot the true cause of the inundation.. The

ftwkicB fill hi May upon Aethiopia occasion the

ast 4 the men that Bow northward from it. As the

m from the equator to the tropic of

i successively vertical over points N. of

. the air is heated and rsrified, and the

I set in from the Mediterranean to restore

B^ttiLViom. They pass over the heated plains

f i but at soon as they reach the lofty

t at Abyssinia, they descend in torrents of

SWsets of water tall impetuously from their

i sty* upon the grand tableau, from the

■Ursa upon the plains which contain the

i rf the White and Blue Rivers, and through

Is and confluents pass into the Kile. In

i of June, or at the beginning of July,

( a risible in Aegypt: about the middle of

t th* dykes are cat, and the flood drawn off

I V. by innumerable canals; and between

> Ml 30th of September the maximum

tb attained. For a fortnight the flood re-

about the 10th of November, it

My diminished, and continues to decrease

I it attains its minimum; at this time

t Cairo b not more than 6 feet, and in

waters are nearly stagnant. In the

^af Herodotus (ii. 13) the height of a good Nile

\ ar 16 cubits; and around the statue of the

i bruught from Aegypt and set

t Temple of Peace, were grouped sixteen

emblematic of these measures.

9. s. 14.) The rise of the Kile was

ion the Kilometers at Primis (Jbrim),

1 llemphis; and the progress or de-

i was reported by letters to diffe-

, in order that the fanners might

i when sowing might commence.

■ height of 30 feet is ruinous,—under-

i sweeping away cattle, and destroying

f the fields. The land, also, is rendered

r far um ^nmning teed-time; the labours of

■ assayed; and epidemic diseases arise from

; and stagnant waters. On the other

raters do not rise 24 feet, the harvest

I if they are below 18, terrible famines

t such bus that of which Diodorus

1 which are not unknown in more

y, Voyage en Syrie ei en Egypte,

IbbM it ph's Hist of Egyjtt, p. 197,

faring which the starving population

to feed on human

Egypt during the inundation

of a wast inland lake, bounded

Bat the usual means of intercourse

of the 1 or the crocodile

1 river are seldom under water, which Ifl discharged

through the frequent apertures of the dykes, at first

upon the verge of the desert, and afterwards upon

the land nearer the flood. The Delta, however, being

devoid of hills, is,during an extraordinary ri.se, laid en­

tirely under water, and the only means of communi­

cation between the towns and villages are boats and

rafts Herodotus (ii. 97) compares the appearance

of Lower Aegypt at this season to the Aegean sea,

studded by the Sporades and Cyclades.

As the direct highway between the Mediterra­

nean and Mcroe, the Nile, in all periods, at least

during the prosperous ages of Aegypt, presented

a busy and animated spectacle. The Aegypt ians,

who shunned the sea as the element of the destroy­

ing Typhon, regarded their river with a flection and

reverence, as the gift and emblem of the creating

and preserving Osiris. Its broad and capacious

bosom was in all seasons of the year studded with

river-cratr, from the raft of reeds to the stately

Baris or Kile barges. Up the Nile to the markets

of Diospolis passed the grain and fruits of the Delta;

and down the stream came the quarried limestone of

the Thebaid to the quays of Sais and Canopus. .No

bridge spanned the river during its course of 1500

miles; and the ferrying over from bank to bank was

an incessant cause of life and movement. The

fishers and fowlers of the Nile diversified the scene.

Respecting the qualities of the fish there is con­

siderable discrepancy among ancient writers — tome

describing it as coarse or insipid, others as highly

nutritive and delicate in its flavour. (Allien,

vii. p. 312.) Fifty-two species of fish are said to

be found in the Nile. (Kussegger, Reisen, vol. i.

p. 300.) Of these the genus Silurus was the most

abundant. Fish diet is well suited to the langnid

appetites of a hot climate; and the Israelites, when

wandering in the desert, regretted the fsh as well

as the vegetables of Aegypt. (Artmioer*, xi. 5.)

They were caught in greatest abundance in the

pools and lakes during the season of inundation.

In the marshy districts of the Delta, where grain,

owing to the spongy and bibulous character of tho

soil, could not be raised, the inhabitants lived prin­

cipally upon fish dried in the sun ; and, in later

times at least, they were salted, and exported in

great quantities to the markets of Greece and Syria.

The modes of catching them are represented in

the paintings, and were the line, the net, and tho

prong. (See Abdallatiph, ap. RoseWni, M. C. vol. i.

p. 230.) The great extent of marsh land in Aegypt,

and the long continuance of the inundation, caused

it beyond all other countries to abound in water­

fowl. The fowlers are represented in the paintings

as spreading nets, or as rowing in their boats among

the aquatic plants, in which the birds nestled,

and knocking them down with sticks. The use of

decoy-birds was not unknown; and smoked or salted

wild-fowl were an article of export. The edible

water-fowl arc mostly of the goose and duck (mot)

tribe; the quail also is mentioned by Herodotus (ii.

77) as among the species that were dried in tho

sun and slightly salted for home consumption and

export.

The Fauna of the Nile were the hippopotamus

and the crocodile, with many lesser species of the

saurian genus. In the more remote ages both

were found through the whole course of the river

(Diodor. i. 35), although at present the hippopo­

tamus rarely descends below the second Cataract,

)dile below 27° N. Int. The chase of the

ff 2

