572 PELORUS.

PELUSIUU.

stationed, with the view both of threatening the city 1

and preventing the Romans from crossing the straits. I

(Pol. i. 11.) And at a later period, during the eon-

test between Oct avian and Sextus Pompey in the

neighbourhood of Messana, the headland of Pelorus I

once inure became an important post, being one of the I

points sedulously guarded by Pompey in order to

prevent his adversary from effecting a landing.

(Appian, B C. v. 105, 116.)

The actual promontory of Pelorus, as already men-

tioned, is a low spit or point of sand, about 1 miles'

in length, which has evidently been thrown up by

the currents, which flow with great rapidity through

the straits. (Symth's Sicily, p. 109.) A tradition,

reported by Diodorus, but as ancient as the time of

Hesiod, represented it as an artificial work con­

structed by the giant Orion, (Diod. iv, 85.) Within

this sandy point, between the beach and the hills,

are enclosed two small lakes or pools which arc fa­

mous for pn ducing the best eels and cockles in .Sicily

(Smyth, /. c.p. 106),—a reputation they already en­

joyed in ancient times, as the "cockles of Pelorus"

are repeatedly noticed by Athenaeus; and Solinus,

who mentions the lakes in question, speaks of them

as abounding in fish. There appear to have been

three of them in his day, but the marvels which he

relates of one of them are purely fabulous. (Allien,

i. p. -4. c, iii. p. 92. f.; Solin. 5. 2—4.) A temple

of Neptune stood in ancient times upon the promon­

tory, iis well as a lighthouse or Pharos, the memory

of which is retained in the modern name of Pttnta

del Faro, by which the cape is still known. Tin's

appellation seems to have indeed come into use be­

fore the close of the Roman Empire, as Servius, in

describing the width of the Sicilian strait, measures

it "a Column a usque ad Pharon." (Serv. ml Aen,

iii. 411.) Hut no remains of either building are now

visible. [E.II. B.J

PELO'RUS (rieAa-pos), a small river of Iberia, in

Asia, probably a tributary of the Cyrus. (Dion

Cass, xxxvii. 2; com p. Groskurd's Strab. vol. ii.

p. 375.)

PELSO (Aur. Vict, de Caw. 40) or PEISO

(Plin. ih. 27), a considerable lake in the north of

Pannonia. A ""large portion of it was drained

by the emperor Galerius, who conducted its waters

into the Danube, and thus reclaimed large tracts of

land, which formed an important addition to the

province. (Aur. Vict. /. c.) The modern name of

this lake is Plattensee: during rainy seasons it still

overflows its banks far and wide, and forms extensive

marshes, which are probably the very districts that

were drained by Galerius. Lake Pelso is mentioned

under different modifications of this name, such as

Lacus Pelsodis (Jornand. Get. 52, 53) and Pelsois

(Geogr. Kav. iv. 19), while in the middle ages it

was called Pelissa. Muchar (Xoric. i. p. 3, &c.)

regards Peiso and Pelso as two lakes, placing

the former, with Pliny, near the Deserta Hoiorum,

and identifying it with the Neitsiedlersee, while he

admits the Pelso to be the Plattensee. This hy­

pothesis, however, can hardly be sustained, as it is

pretty certain that the Xcttsiedlersee did not exist

in the times of the Romans, but was formed at a

later perjiH.1. (Comp. SchennwiMier, Antiquitate*

et IfUUrrta Sabartae, p 17, &c,; Liechtenberg,

Geogr. des Ouster. Kaist rstaates, vol. iii p. 1245,

&c.) [L.S.]

PELTAE (rXfArw: Etk. ITf Antra?, Pelteni), a

considerable town ot' Pinygia, was situated, ac­

cording to Xenophon (Anab. i. 2. § 10), at a dis-

tance of 10 parasanga from Cel.wnae, »tU«W<

the river Maeander. Xenophun destriUs u

populous city, and sUtes that the «rmj « Cm

remained there three days, during which i»n

and sacrifices w ere performed. The reu:in£. TjU

where the name is erroneously written P«lk pia

it, quite in accordance with Xenopbso, i6 nl

from Apamea Cibottis, to the cooveatoi <A m

Peltae belonged. (Plin. T. 29; cutnp. PtaL 4

§ 25; Steph. B. «. r.) Strabo (xii. p. 576) m

tions Peltae among the smaller towns of Ptorj

and the Notitiae name it amoti? the efisM}fc

of Phryeia Pacatiaua. The district in vhkb I

town was situated derived from it tbs bum d 1

Peltaean plain (ncAnjitfror IWATvkrwJw', >7

xiii. p. 629). Kiepert (ap. Franz, /»/ 1%/rkni)

p. 36) fixes the site of Peltae at the piat* A

Mr. Hamilton found ruins of an ancient citj.ih

8 miles south of Sandakli (Journal of fie i

Geogr. Society, viii. p. 144); while Himftai

self (Researches, ii. p. 203) thinks that ii I

have been situated more to the south-west, tar

modern Jshekli. But this latter hypaUss ■

to place it too far west. [L-S

PELTUI'NUM (Eth. Peltuinas. -ilk: A*

nia), a considerable town of the VesUw-ttii

the four ascribed to that people by Fhnj (a

s. 17). Its name is not found in PtnteaJ*

Itineraries, but its municipal importance t *3

by various inscriptions. One of the** etafc*

fact mentioned by Pliny, th.it the Aofiatt"

closely connected with, or dependent on. Pot

apparently the more important place of tiw

We learn from the Liber Colon ia run (p. 2SS]

it attained the rank of a colony, prktib.-y 1

Augustus: but at a later period, as «

an inscription of the date of A.D. 242, it *

duced to the condition of a Praefectan. tw

seems to have been sliil a flourishing town. I

Jiucr. no. 4036 ; Zuinpt, de Coloniis, p.

Its site was unknown to Cluverius, bat 1

fixed with certainty at a spot called

between the villages of Cartel Xuero «a1

about 14 miles SE. of Aquila, on toe n*i

thence to Popoli. The ancient name is wai

a neiiihbourini: church, called in ecclwas:--!

ments S. Paolo a Peltuitio. A conskfcrif *

the circuit, of the ancient walls is ttill «4i

remains of various public buildings, and tael

an amphitheatre of reticulated work. (i«*

Aveia, p. 119; Roman el li, vol. iii. pp. 2*M

Orelli, Jnscr. 106. 3961, 39S1> [E H

PELVA, a town of Dalmatia, which ti* i

Itinerary places on the road from Sim 'J

lonae. Schafarik (Slav. Alt. vol. i. p& ^

identifies it with Plewa, a plac« in

river of the same name, of which Perra »

tinised form. [E I

PELU'SIUM (nijXwtfior, Ptol ir. S. £

15. § 11 ; bteph. B. s. r.; Strab. xvti. p. nj2 *

YlT}\ov(Jtu>TT)?, T\i)Kov<rias ), was a citv <fU

pypt, situated uyon tiie easteninK^t hai;k d

the Ostium Pelusiacum, to which ii ^-t\

It was the Sin of the Hebrew Senear*

xxx. 15); and this word, as wetl a* it* J

appellation, Percmoun or Perorni. and i

(tt7)Aoj) import the city of the ouie <r 9

Coptic, mud), Pelusium lyinc betw^

board and the Deltaic maruhex. aboot tvil

! miles from the sea. The Ostium lYl-^*

I chunked by sand as early as thr hr>t <_■> :=1

