THAUMACIA. 1137 THEBAE AEGTPTI.

by Philip in n. c. 199; but a reinforcement

Artoiians having made their way into the town,

i king was obliged to abandon the siege. (Liv.

xii. 4.) Thaumaci was taken by the consul

-liim in tlie war with Antiochus, n. c. 191. (Liv.  
ni. 14; comp. Strab. ix. p. 434; Steph. B. s. v.

ivuxlo.) Dhomoko occupies the site of Thau-

ci, and at this place inscriptions are found eon-

'-jne the ancient name. Its situation and prospect

in exact accordance with the description of Livv,

> >s>pird from Polybius, an eye-witness. Dodwell

l that '* the view fi-om this place is the most

>l'rftil and extensive he ever beheld," and Leake

frv>» that "at the southern end of the town a

1? pr«nt, overtopping the other heights, commands

tif uificent prospect of the immense plain watered

tie Peoeius aud its branches." (IXidwell, vol.

i 122: Leake, jVorfAoti Greece, vol. i. p. 458.)

H AUMA'CIA (eauficutia: Elh. Baii/uutieot), a

■i uf Magnesia in Thessaly. one of the four cities

ship* in the Trojan War were commanded by

brut**. It waa said to bare been founded by

I'.inarus, the aon of Poeas. Leake supposes it

* "-presented by the paleoaastro of Atktti, one  
i« ullages on the Magnesian coast This Thau-

u moat twt be confounded with Thaumaci in

aiuus mentioned above. (Horn. //. ii. 716;

k. ix. p. 436; Steph. B. s. v.; Eustath. ad

t. p. 329. 6; Pun. iv. 9. a. 16; Leake, Northern

tee, vol. iv. p. 416.)

HEA'NGELA {Btiyyt\a: F.th. B<ayy<\( i>t),

• a of Caris, which Alexander placed under the

■-J urn of llalicamassus, is known as the birth-

i of Philip, the historian of Caria. (Plin. v.

Atnea. tL p. 271; Steph. B. ». r.)

IIKBAE (SqCai. Herod, i. 182, ii. 42 ; Strab.

pp. 805,815, foil.; Thebc, Plin. v.9.s. 11), the

Hulntl, xxx. 14) or No-AHMOS (.Vovium, vv.

■■f tlie Hebrew Scriptures; at a later period Dlos-

tt the Great of the Greeks and Romans ( AoSa.

. uryiAl. Ptol. iv. 5. § 73; Steph. B. ». ».),

«of the most ancient cities of Aegypt, and even,

ituig to Diodorua (i. 50, comp. xv. 45), of the

L Its foundation, like that of Memphis, waa at-

to Menea, the first mortal king of Aegypt,

: went bark to the mythical period of Aegvptian

ry. By some writers, however, Memphis was

lad to hare been a colony of Thebes. It waa

capital of the Dome formed by the city itself

environs, though Ptolemy (/. c.) describes it

ruitiiig to the Nome of Coptos. In all Upper

■j* no spot is so adapted for the site of a great

u as tlie plain occupied by ancient Thebes.

a i*jntaixi chains, the Libyan on the western,

: • Arabian on the eastern, side of the Nile,

> boldly from the river, and leave on both banks

•. ti* area, whoee breadth, including the river,

a1* to Dearly 4 leagues, and the length from N.

u nearly «s much. Towards the N. the plain

aia closed in by the return of the hills to the

tut on the S., where the western chain con-

t distant, it remains open. The ground, there­

in which Thebes stood was large enough to

--j a city of at least equal extent with ancient  
■ or modern Paris; and, according to Strabo,

at Thebes covered the entire plain. Only a

wi of H, however, was available for population.

■irimc are* waa covered with the temples and

«Tenues of sphinxes; and on the western side,

r u the Libyan hills, lay the monuments of the

Oa the eastern bank, therefore, the population

was generally collected; and there it was probably

densely crowded, since ancient writers assign to Thebes

an almost incredible number of inhabitants, and

Diodorus (L 45) describes the houses as consisting

of many stories. The extent of the city is very

differently stated by ancient authors. Kumours of

its greatness had reached the Greeks of Homer's age,

who (//. ix. 381) apeaks of its "hundred gates''

and its 20,000 war-chariots, just as the Arabian

story-tellers speak of the glories of Bagdad or Da­

mascus under the Caliphs. Before the Persian in­

vasion (n.c. 525) no Greek writer had visited

Thebes; and after that catastrophe its dimensions

had considerably shrunk, since Cambyses is said to

have burnt all such portions of Thebes as fire would

destroy, i. e. all the private buildings; and under

the Persian viceroys no Aegvptian city was likely

to regain its original proportions. It does not appear

that Herodotus ever visited Upper Egypt, and his

Account of Thebes is extremely vague and meagre.

Diodorus, on the contrary, who saw it after its

capture by Ptolemy Lathyrus, about B. c. 87, be­

held Thebes in the second period of its decay, and

after Alexandria had diverted much of its comtneri e

to Berenice and the Arsinoitc bay. He estimates its

circuit at 140 stadia or about 17 miles. Strabo,

again, who went thither with the expedition of

Aelius Gallns in B.C. 24, beheld Thebes at a still

lower stage of decadence, and assigns it a compass

of about 10 miles. But at that time the continuity

of its parts was broken up, and it was divided into

certain large hamlets (aaifi^Sor) detached from one

another. Neither of these writers, accordingly, waa

in a position to state accurately the real dimensions

of the city in its flourishing estate, i. e. between

1600 and 800 n. c Modern travellers, again, have

still further reduced its extent; fur example, Sir

Gardner Wilkinson supposes the area of Thebes not

to have exceeded 5} English miles. As, however,

during the space of 2600 years (800 B.C.—1800

A.D.) there have been very material changes in the

soil from the contraction of the habitable ground,

partly by the depositions of the Nile, and partly

by the drifting of the sands, it is scarcely pos­

sible for modem travellers to determine how far

Aegvptian labour and art may once have extended

their capital. An author quoted by Stephanus of

Byzantium, probably Uecataeus, runs into the oppo­

site extreme, and ascribes to Thebes a population

(7,000,1)00) hardly possible for the entire Nile-

valley, and an extent (400 stadia, or 50 miles)

larger than the Thebau plain itself. (Steph. B. t r.

AioViroAir) The name of Thebes is formed from

the Tape" of the ancient Aegvptian language, pro­

nounced Thalia in the Memplutic dialect of Cojitic,

and thence easily converted into ftqSai, Thebu, or

Thebes. In hieroglyphics it is written Ar or Ai'K,

with the feminine article, t-apk, the meaning of

which is said to lie " head," Thebes being the " head"

or capital of the Upper Kingdom. Its later appel­

lation of Diospol'u Magna (AkSottoAji i fM-vdAi))

answers also to the Aegvptian title Amunei or

"abode of Anion,"—Amnion or Zeus, the rani-heade.l

god, being the principal object of worship at Thelie*.

The name Tape or Thebes applied to the entire city

on cither hank of the Nile: but the western quarter

hail the distinctive name of Pathyrls, or, acconnng

to Ptolemy (iv. 5. § 69), Talhyris, as being under the

sjiecial protection of Athor, who is sometimes called

the President of the West. The necropolis, indeed,

on the Libvan side was appropriately placed under

4 o

