Go8 PHOENICIA. PHOENICIA,

makes them to be colonies of their more celebrated

namesakes, in opposition to the testimony ot' Straho,

ami without producing any counter authority. The

isle of Tylus or Tyrus is likewise mentioned by

Pliny (vi. 32). The account given by Justin is in

harmony with these authorities (xviii 3). He de­

scribes the Tyrians as having been disturbed in their

native seats by an earthquake, and as migrating

thence, first to what lie calls the "Assyrian lake,"

and subsequently to the shores of the Mediterranean.

A recent writer (Kenrick, Phoenicia^ p. 47) takes

this Assyrian lake to have been Gennesaret or the

Dead Sea, as there was no other collection of waters

in S. Assyria to which the term could be applied.

This would have funned a natural resting-place in

the journey of the emigrants. It must not, however,

be concealed, that the account of the.-e writers has

been rejected by several very eminent authors, as

Buchart, Hengstenberg, Heeren, Niebuhr, and others,

and more recently by Movers, a writer who has paid

great attention to Phoenician history, and who has

discussed this question at considerable length, (/tie

Pfumhier, vol. ii. pt i. pp. 23—62.) His prin­

cipal arguments are, that the Phoenician traditions,

which go back to the primitive chaos, represent even

the gods, as well as the invention of all the arts of

life, as indigenous; that the Scriptures, whose

testimony is preferable, both on account of its

antiquity, and because it arose out of the bosom of

I lie people themselves, make no mention of any

such immigration, though at that time its memory

could not have been obliterated had it really

occurred, and though it would have served the

purpose of the Jews to represent the Canannites as

intruders; and that the name of the people, being

derived from the character of the laud, as well as the

appellations of different tribes, such as the Gibli at

Byblos, the Stdooians at Sidon, &o., mark them as

indigenous. But it may be observed, that the

Phoenician traditions rest on the equivocal authority

of the pretended Sanconiatho, and come to us in so

questionable a shape that they may evidently be

made to serve any purpose. Thus Movers himself

quotes a passage from Sanconiatho (vol. ii. pt. i. p.

28), to the effect that the Tyrians invented ship­

building, because it directly contradicts the state­

ment that they were the descendants of a sea-faring

people on the shores of the Persian Gulf; although

Be had previously cited the same passage (vol. i. p.

143) in proof of the Euliemeristn of Philo-Sanco­

niatho, who, it is there said, attributed the invention

of navigation to the Cabin merely because the Phoe­

nician mariners considered themselves as .sailing

under the protection of their deities. Can such

testimony Ik? compared with that of the "loyal-

hearted and truthful Herodotus," as Movers cha­

racterises him (vol. i. pt. ii. p. 134). who, be it

observed, also founds his account on the traditions of

the Phoenicians (ws avrol Xiyovai, vii, 89), and

who could have had no possible interest in misrepre­

senting them? Nor could the natural vanity of the

Phoenicians have found any gratification in mislead­

ing him on this point, since the tradition lessened,

rather than enhanced, the splendour of their origin.

The testimony of the Scriptures on the subject is

merely negative; nor, were it otherwise, could they

Ik? taken as a certain guide in ethnological inquiries.

They were not written with that view, and we have

already adverted to a discrepancy in their treatment

of this subject. The question, however, is too long

to be fully discussed in this place. Wc have merely

adverted to some of the principal heads, and rhst

who wish to pursue the inquiry further ire r^ema1

to the passage in Mover's work alrf*jT u.iKatai

and to Mr. Kenrick's Ph<jmiria (chap. iiL).

IV. Histoet.

Our knowledge of Phoenician liistnv V 1

fragmentary. Its native recurds, both literary

monumental, have almost utterly perished; an

are thus reduced to gather from scattered

the Old Testament and in the Greek aoi

authors, and sometimes to supply by in;

annals of a country which standi the second ra

of antiquity, which for some thousand.* of

played a considerable part in the world, sod UM

Europe owes the germs of her civilisation.

If we accept the authority of Uerudotsa,

Phoenicians must have appeared upon ibt oatfri

the Mediterranean at least twenty--*ven or

eight centuries ttfore the birth of Christ. Is*

to ascertain the age of Hercules, re?q;«*ctinc el

the Egyptian chronology differed very wysttj ■

the Greek, that conscientious historian rfc*Jh«

inquire for himself, and arconlmsly sailed to 1

where he had heard that there was a famous M

of Hercules. It was, therefore, eipres*!? I*

purpose of settling a chronological point that

at the trouble of making ibis voyage,

natural to suppose that he did not adopt the

at ion which he received from the priest*

some examination. Prom these he learned

temple bad existed B300 years, and that

coeval with the foundation of Tyre (it.

Now, as Herodotus flourished about the

of the fifth century before our aera, it

that Tyre must have been founded

years B. c. The high antiquity of this

undoubtedly startling, and ou that

been rejected by several critic* and hist

it does not apj*ar why it should be

altogether improbable. The chronology of

is carried back more than 2000 years R. c;

Jewish Scriptural uniformly intimate

higher, and indeed im memorable,

Canaaoites. Acain, if we look at Kgypt,

would fall under the 14th dynasty of ila

(2750—2631 B.C.), who had*had an hm

istence, and to whom many conquests are at

before this period. This dynasty was bi

that of the Hyksos, who were probably C

and are dex-ribed by Manetho as ^kli;e^i in d4

of war. and of fortifying camps ai.d clUea. ■

pp. 113. 114; Sclud. in PlaUm. Timu vol, 1

288, ed. Tauchn.)

If Sidon was older than Tyre, and its

city, as it claimed to be, this wuuki adi.

difficulty to the question, by carrying hacat

nology to a still higher period. But ewn

jection cannot be regarded as fatal to tha>

signed to Tyre. Cities at so short a

easily have been planted by one anntawr

very brief space of time from their eakpavl

contest between them in ancient time* far

not only shows that the question was a

biguous one. but alsu leads to the inJerenan

difference in their dates could nut have

great. The weight of ancient evid<

side of the question is pretty nearly

* This is the date assigned by Movers;  
sonic authorities it is placed later.

