960 SELLASIA.

of the Macedonians opposed to him, led his men out

of tlie intrenchments and charged the Macedonian

phalanx. The Lacedaemonians fought with great

bravery; but after many vain attempts to break

through the impenetrable mass of the phalanx, they

were entirely defeated, and of 601)0 men only 200

are said to have escaped from the Held of battle.

Cleomenes, perceiving all was lost, escaped with a

few horsemen to Sparta, and from thence

to Gythium, where he embarked for Aezyj*. aa*

tigonus, thus master of the passe* marched djrartsy

to Sellasia, which he j lundered and destmte, ami

then to Sparta, which submitted to turn

slight resistance. (Polyb. ii. 65—"0; Pint.

27, 28, Phihp. 6; Paiis. ii. 9. § 2, uL la |

29. § 9, vii. 7. § 4, viii. 49. § 5.)

rLAN OF THE BATTLE OF SKLLASIA.

a an. Troops of Cleomenei. B B. Itfvid to Ai . •

b b h. Troops of Antlgooui. C C. Hoad to Mejralofoti*.

A A. Road to Tegea. I

D 1». Road to Sparta.

In the preceding account of the hat tie we have'

followed the excellent description of Ross. (Rei*en

im Prhponnes, p. 181.) The French Commission

had previously supposed the plain of Krevata to be

the site of the battle of Sellasia (Boblaye, Recher-

ckest cfft p. 73); and the same opinion has been

adopted by Curtius. (Pefaponnesos, vol. ii. p, 260.)

Leake, however, places Sellasia to the SE.. near the

monastery of the Forty Saints ("A7ioi 'Zapdvra),

and supposes the battle to have been fought in the

pass to the eastward of the monastery. The ruins

near the Khan of Krevata he maintains to be those

of Caryae. (Le:ike, .\forea, vol. ii. p. 529, Pelo-

potmetiaca, p, 341, seq.) But Boss informs us that

in the narrow pass NE. of the monastery of the

Forty Saints there is barely room for a loaded mule

to pass; and we know moreover that Sellasia was

situated on the high road from Sparta to T<

Argos, which must have led through the

Krcratri. {Kara rijr Aftwpopor, Paua. BL

Plut Chom. 23; Xen. UelL vi 5. § 27; £

64; Liv. xsxiv. 28.)

On leaving the plain of Kreratd, tb» mi

wards ascends the mountain, and at ibedl

a quarter of an hour leaves a tmall rma am

railed by the peasants Pa'arogula (if TlaAaa

The remains of the walls are Hellenic hat

of very small extent, and the place was j

either a dependency of Sflla&i* or on to «

inhabitants of the latter fled fur refuse at at

periods when their city was destroyed.

The ruins of Sellnsia lie 1 J miles

ffula upon the summit of the mountain. 1

was about 1 \ miles in circomfuiSMSV as

