KASAVA. 401 NAUCRATIS.

k '.) Tbar modem representatives are equally

^•fktiiiV, u the traveller Bruce, who was

ilprncknl on their coast, experienced. (Brace,

Jmrk, Iniradwtian, to!, i. p. 131.) The Nasu-

rsn. however, were breeders of cattle, since Hero-

•tt Inhns os (ir. 172) that in the summer sea-

si, "tbrj lore their herds on the coast and go up

toaspk to gather the date harvest"—the palms

4 (hat taaii being numerous, large, and fruitful.

id ien, min, in existing races we find corre-

dnra with the habits of the Nasamones. For

&f to modern travellers, the people who dwell

tastef £er*<i, gather the dates in the plain

five days' journey from Augila. (Pro-

Afrie. At$ociation, 1790, cb. x.)

the Nasamones as practising

sacrificing at the graves of

en) swearing by their manes. They

on the widest scale, or rather held

in common ; and their principal diet,

ata,tu dried locusts reduced to powder and

'wan milk intoa kind of cake—polenta. Their

af aim a precious stone called by Pliny

i 64) and Solinus (c. 27) Nasamonitis;

red hue with black veins,

tatroduces his description of this tribe,

story relating to the knowledge

by the ancients of the sources of the Nile.

n(E 32) that certain Kasaxnones came from

(MoBrhood of Cyrene, and made an expedition

•V) aterior of Libya; and that they explored

Jar as the kingdom of Timbuctoo, is

by his account of their adventures,

through the inhabited region, they

infested by wild beasts .

■e was westward through the desert

finally they were taken prisoners by

of diminutive stature, and carried to a

great river flowing from W. to E.

in crocodiles. This river, which the

to be the upper part of the Nile,

frefaaUy the Nicer. The origin of the

"lies in the fact that the Nasamones, a

, acted as guides to the caravans

crossed the Libyan continent from

r Carthage to Aethiopia, Meroe, and

Bed Sea. [W. B. D.]

(Saeata. al, NaWafl, Ptol. iv. 2. §

aesariensis, the month of

£. of Saldae. This river of Borjeiyahy

of rivulets which fall into it

]( as the banks are rocky

occasion iu inflations in the winter.

_ (0.) [E.B.J.]

Kmrin Movrts.]

(Hinvt, al. MaitrKowos jiirrpovoAis),

fky of Arabia Felix, in long. 81° 15',

« «f Ptolemy. (Ptol. *i 7. § 35.)

takes it to be Naaa of 1 'liny, the chief

tki Aaatbei, who occupied the present dis-

"•ta«L (Geography of Arabia, Tol. ii. pp.

[G. W.]

CaraTajLj

(Ni^.o.). m Gallia- Ptolemy names

uV Lena, Tullum ( Tout) aod Nasium,

imtm 20 minutes farther south than

■ Buy minutes east. Both these

falae, as the I tins, show, fur Nasium

PttMril ran (Reims) to Tullum;

«eat of Toul, and it is not south.

■Ira Kaaiom on the Ornain or

Ornez, a branch of the Maas; and its name exists

in Naix or Araw, above Ligny. The Antoniue Itin.

makes it 16 leagues from Nasium to Tullum. The

Table places Ad Fines between Na.sium and Tullum,

14 leagues from Nasium and b\ from Tullum. [As

1. L.]

to Ad Fines, see Finks, No. 14.j [G

NASUS. [Okhadak.]

NATISO (NoTiVftj*', Strab.: Natisone), a river

of Venetia, which flowed under the walls of Aqui­

leia, on the E. side of the city, and is noticed in

connection with that city by all the geographers as

well as by several other ancient writers. (PHn. ni.

18. 6. 22; Strab. v. p. 214; Mela, ii. 4. § 3; Ptol.

iii. 1. § 26; Ammian. xxi. 12. § 8; Jomand. Get,

42.) Pliny speaks of the Natiso together with iho

Turrus (Natiso cum Turro), as flowing by the co­

lony of Aquileia. At the present day the Natisone,

a considerable stream which descends from the Alps

near Cividak> falls into the 7'orre (eridently the

Turrus of Pliny), and that again into the Jsonzo;

so that neither of them now flows by Aquileia; but

it is probable that they have changed their course,

which the low and marshy character of the country

renders easy. A small stream, or rather canal, com­

municating from Aquileia with the sea, is still called

NatUa; but it is clear that the Natissa of Jor-

nandes, which he describes (/. c.) as flowing under

the walla of Aquileia, must be the far more impor­

tant stream, now called the Natisone, as he tells us

it had its sources in the Mons Picis, and it would

be vain to look for any mountains nearer than the

Alps. Strabo (/. c.) also speaks of the Natiso as

navigable for ships of burden as far as Aquileia, 60

stadia from the sea; a statement which renders it

certain that a considerable river must have flowed

under the walls of that city. [K. EL B.]

NAVA, the river Nava in Tacitus (Hist, iv. 70)

and in Ausonius (Mosella, v. 1) is the A'aAe, a

small stream which flows into the Rhine, on the left

bank jnst below Bingium (Bingen). [G. L-]

NAVA'LIA or NABATIA (Nat/oA.o), t small

river on the north-west coast of Germany (Tac.

Hist. v. 26), either an eastern branch of the Rhine,

at the mouth of which Ptolemy (ii. 11. § 28) places

the fort Navalia, or some river in the country of the

Frisians. [L. S.]

NAVARI. [Neuri.]

NAVARUM. [Nkuri.]

NAUBARUM. [Neuri.]

NAU'CRATIS (NadKooTi*, Herod, ii. 179;

Strab. xvii. p. 801 ; Ptol. iv. & § 9; Callimach.

Epigr. 41; Plin. v. 10. s. 11; Steph. B. t. v.: Eth.

fiavKparhtjs or Navft/xrnwT'ni), was originally an

emporium for trade, founded by colonists from Mi­

letus, in the Saitic nome of the Delta. It stood

upon the eastem bank of the Canopic arm of

the Nile, which, from the subsequent importance

of Naucratis, was sometimes called the Ostium

Naucraticum. (Plin. v. 10. s. 11.) There was, doubt­

less, on the same she an older Aegyptiau town,

the name of which has been lost in that of the

Greek dockyard and haven. Naucratis first at­

tained its civil and commercial eminence in the

reign of Amasis (b. c. 550) who rendered it, as re­

garded the Greeks, the Canton of Aegypt. From

the date of his reign until the Persian invasion, or

perhaps even the founding of Alexandreia, Naucratis

possessed a monopoly of the Mediterranean com­

merce, for it was the only Deltaic harbour into

which foreign vessels were permitted to enter; and

if accident or stress of weather had driven them

i> v

