JIKGARA. 315 MEGARA.

river, yet, on examining the ground near it, the

evidence is convincing that its present course does

cross their site, as, at a short distance from it, on the

Megarian side, their foundations may be traced in a

direction transverse to the course of the river, and

towards the castellated hill before mentioned. The

dry watercourse on the western side of this isolated

hill can be traced to within two or three hundred

yards of the eastern one; and having no communi­

cation with any other mountain stream, it may not

be unreasonable to suppose that formerly the river

split there into two branches or*mouths. This hill

would then have been an island, as Thucydides calls

Minoa." The subsequent deposit of earth brought

down by the above mentioned stream, would havo

joined the hill to the mainland.

The accompanying map and drawing are taken

from Lieut. Spratt's.

MKGA1LA.

TLAN OF THE NEIOHUOUHHOOD OF AlEGAKA.

3. Ancient mole.

A. \ i-■ Mfltolaos.

bed winds round the back of the hill, leaving only a

ranw neck of elevated ground between it and that

an the west side: and it is, therefore, clear, that

when the» two river* bad communication with the

kea, the intermediate neck of land, with this bill,

would have been a peninsula, or promontory. These

two river beds were once the only outlets of the

niountain streams which issue from the valleys on

l lie north side of Mont Geraneia; for the ancient

course of the eastern bed, although now ploughed

uier and cultivated, can be traced through the

i'..: j. to the northward, as far as its junction with

that river, whose torrent at present flows in an

easterly direction towards the shallow bay of Tikh>>,

crossing the site of the Long Walls which connected

Megan with Nisaea and Minoa, and losing them-

•elres in the swamps bordering that bay. Although

vestiges of the walls are not found in the bed of the

MIXOA. NISAEA.

A *'■ ■ r.v

B Ni*aea~

C. Min. a.

1. Utaud formerly supposed to be Megara.

X. i. - , ) peninsula.

If tlii* hill is the site of Minoa, the town of Nisaea

o ■ ■*. have been near it : and LieuL Spratt dis-

onered many vestiges of an ancient site on the

eastern sida of the hill, between the sea and a low

rack which stands in the plain a short distance to

toe northward. "Among these remains are four

nail heaps of ruins, with massive foundations, in

«* of which there axe three broken shafts of small

ft. Agios Georgia*,

6 Promontory of Tikho.

7. S;ilamis.

columns erect, and wanting apparently only the

fourth to complete the original number. Probably

they were monuments or temples ; and two Greek

churches, which are now in ruins, but standing on

two ancient foundations, wilt not be unfavourable to

the supposition. Another church, Agios Nikolaos,

which is perfect, also occupies the site of an anoint

building, but it sUnds nearer to the sea." Lieut.

