,-,?G MYONNESUS. MYNDUS.

anecdote preserved in Athenaens (viii. p. 348) of the

witty musician Stratonicus, who, on coming to

Mylassa, and observing its many temples, but few

inliabitants, placed himself in the middle of the

market-place, and exclaimed, "Hear me, oh ye

temples." As to the history of this city, we know

that Philip of Macedonia, the son of Demetrius, en­

deavoured in vain to obtain possession of it; and it

was probably to reward the place fur its opposition

to him that the Romans, after the war with Anli-

ochus, declared its citizens free (Polyb. xvi. 24, xxii.

27; l.iv. xxxviii. 39). In a petty war with the

neighbouring Euromians, the Mylassans were vic­

torious, and took some of their towns; but were

afterwards compelled to submit to the Khodians

(Polyb. xxx. 5; l.iv. xlv. 25.) In the time of Strabo,

the town appears to have been still flourishing, and

two eminent orators, Euthydcmus and Hybreas,

exercised considerable influence over their fellow-

citizens. Hybreas, however, incurred the enmity of

Labienus, his political adversary, whose pretensions

lie tried to resist. But he was obliged to take refuge

in Rhodes; whereupon Labienus marched with an

army against Mylassa, and did great damage to the

town. (Strab.xiv.p.660.) It i.s mentioned, however,

as late as the time of Hierocles (p. 088). It is ge­

nerally admitted that the site of the ancient Mylassa

is marked by the modern ilelasso or Melassa, where

considerable ancient remains have been observed by

travellers. A temple, erected by the people of My­

lassa in honour of Augustus and Roma, considerable

rnins of which had existed until modern times, was

destroyed about the middle of last century by the

Turks, who built a new mosirae with the materials

(I'ococke, Trnvtlt, torn. ii. p. 2. e. 6.) Chandler

(Asia Minor, p. 234) saw beneath the hill, on the

east side of the town, an arch or gateway of marble,

ot the Corinthian order; a broad marble pavement,

with vestiges of a theatre; and round the town ranges

of columns, the remains of porticoes. (Camp. Leake,

Asia Minor, p. 230; Kellows, Journal of an Exc.

p. 2G0, Itiscortries in Lyciu, p. 67, who saw many

ancient remains scattered about the place; Rasche,

La. A'um. iii. 1. p. 999, &c.) [L. S.]

COIN" OF MYLASSA.

MYNDUS (MSrtot: Flh. Mvttiot), a Dorian

colony of Troezcn, on the coast of Caria, situated on

the northernmost of the three Dorian peninsulas, a

few miles to the northwest of Halicamassus. It was

jirotected by strong walls, and had a pond harbonr.

(Paus. ii. 30. § S; Strab. xiv. p. 658; Arrian, Anab.

i. 20, ii. 5 ) But otherwise the place is not of

much importance in ancient history. Both Pliny

(v. 29) and Stephanus Byz. (i. r.) mention Palae-

lnyndus as a place close by Myndus; and this Pa-

laemyndus seems to have been the ancient place of

the Carians which became deserted after the esta­

blishment of the Dorian Myndus. (Comp. Strah. xiii.

p. (ill.) Mela (i. 16) and Pliny (ic.) also speak

of a place called Neapolis in the same peninsula; and

as no other authors mention Mich a place in that

jiart of the country, It has been supposed that

Myndus (the Dorian colony) and Neapolis were the

same place. But it ong'nt to be remembered thai

Pliny mentions both Myndus and Neapolis m two

different towns. Myndian ships are mentioned a

the expedition of Anaxagoras against Naxoa. (Herod,

v. 33.) At a later time, when Alexander hMefrd

Halicamassus, he was anxious first to make hrrorh*

master of Myndus; but when he attempted to take

it by surprise, the Myndians, with the awl of rein­

forcements from HalicamassuB repulsed him with

some loss. (Arrian, /. c.; comp. Hecat. Frtigm. 229:

Polyb. xvi. 15, 21; Scylax, p. 38; PtoL t. 2. $ »;

Liv. xxxvii. 15; Hierocl. p. 687.) Athenaeos (L 32)

states that the wine grown in the district of Mrndu

was good for digestion. It is generally believed that

Mmtesha or Mnntrsha marks the site of Myndni;

but Col. Leake (Asia Minor, p. 228) identifies;

Myndus with the small sheltered port of (TasassUa,

where Captain Beaufort remarked the remains of aa

ancient pier at the entrance of the port, and soma

ruins at the head of the bay. (Comp. Raaehe, la.

Sum. iii. 1. p. 1002, 4c; Eckhel, Doetr. AVaa,

vol. ii. pt. i. p. 585.)

Ptolemy (v. 2. § 30) mentions a small island caDed

Myndus in the Icarian Sea. [L. S.]

com OK MYKDl'S.

MYO'NIA or MYON (Mooria, Pans. ; M/wr.

Steph. B.: Elk. Mbbhi'i, Paus., Time), a town «f

the Loeri Ozolae, situated on the moat difficult of

the passes leading from Aetolia into Loeria. (That.

iii. 101.) Pausanias describes it aa a small town

(iroAnriu), situated upon a hill 30 stadia from An-

phissa inland, containing a grove and an altar of tee

gods called Meilichii, and above the town a tempted

Poseidon. (Paus. x. 38. § 8. comp. ri. 19. § 4.)

Leake (Northern (treecr, vol. ii. p. 5*9) and other

authorities place Myonia at Aghia 7aymai, or Atkf.

mia, a small village, containing Hellenic remains.

distant 11 hour from Sihma (Amphisas) on the road

to Galaxldhi on the coast; but this cannot be cor­

rect, as. according to the passage in Pausaniaa, Hy-

onia lay further inland than Ampbiasa. (~A«w a»>

£»#» 'Au<pl<ront irpAs tfw*ipor Minna . . . Ot-rai (in­

cluding the Mvovtli) fiir 81) frrrooiaotVir 'A*d*r-

m)i, *rl daAdVo-jji ii OidVflno). AcrnKBearry

Kiepert places Myonia in his map N. of Am; hi—, am

the road from the latter place to Cytinium in Pari*.

M Y< IN'NE'SI'S (MuoVrnffoi or MvoVnowt), a pr*>

fnontorv on the south-west of Lebedn*. on the raaat

of Ionia, at the northern extremity of the hay rf

Kphesns. It is celebrated in history for the nival

victory there gained by the Romans under I_ Aemi-

lius over Antiochns the Great, in B.c. 190. (5l*ftV.

B. a. a.; Strab. xiv. p. 643 ; Thin yd. iii. 41 ; Lit.

xxxvii. 27.) Livy describes the promontory as orto-

ated between Samoa and Teas, and as hong from a

broad basis to a pointed summit. There waa aa

approach to it on the land side by a narrow path;

while on the sea side it was girl by rocks, so math

worn by the wares, that in some parts the

hanging cliffs extended further into the tea than i

ships stationed under them. On thb

there also was a small town of the name of )t<

