PATAV11TM.

PATRAE. 5.57

erimei city at Venice (Gibbon, cli. 35, note

41.) tot Pstsvium did not teas* to exist, and

awl bsie psrtially at least recovered from this

okoitr, is it is mentioned as one of the chief towns

affartuwbfD that province was overrun by the

botami osier Alboin, in A.D. 568. (P. Duo.

fat Lmg. a. 14.) It did not fall into the hands

i istt feopi- till now 40 years afterwards,

laaana taken by Agilulf, kin; of the Lonv

bi ud barot to the ground. (Id. iv. 24.) But

jtosorcwr* me from its ashes, and in the middle

lp> aeaia became, as it has continued ever since,

4* tt Ux man considerable cities in this part of

Ja*. tioogl no longer enjoying its ancient prc-

k a prokaW; nwing to the calamities thus suffered

tinsm, as well as to the earthquakes by which

bees repeatedly visited, that it has now

r ssy relics of its ancient splendour, except a

nations: and even these are mnch less nu­

tans might have been expected. One of

i preserved with great care in the town-hall

; the name of T. Liviua, which has been

I to refer to the great historian of the name,

basa nil known, was a native of I'ataviurn.

(Ail is dearly a mistake; the inscription in

i refers only to an obscure freedman; nor is

t slightest foundation for regarding the sar-

i fmtrrred with it as the tomb of the cele-

snao. (Biogr. Diet. Vol. II. p. 790.)

t the supposition was more plausible than

I assigns another ancient sarcophagus

■a 1274, and still preserved in the

I sf 5. Lorenz-j) as the sepulchre of Antenor!

Itfctkf sarcophagi and inscriptions, the found-

buildings have been discovered in

> ktfts of the modem city, but nothing now

i* ground.

was the birth place also of Thrasca

• was put to death by Nero in A. r». 6G.

oases of offence which he had given was

; as a tragedian in certain games, which

at Pabrviam every 30 yean* in

Aatsawr, a custom said to be derived from

fssiBjueis of the city. (Tac. Ann. xvi.

I Cass. lxiL 26.) We learn also from Livy

at tin* the memory of the defeat of the

I Chewymus was preserved by an annual

est toe river which flowed through the

(Liv.x.2.) [E.H.B.]

aimi illa-jjuui'i. a town of Bilhynia

"of Lake Aacania, between the Sinus

awl the Sinus Cianus. (I'tol. v. 1.

[L.S.1

town on the K. <■ i • of the

, mettfiooed only in the Itinerary

i (p. 114); from which we learn that it

L 37 mile* from Roscianam {Roxsano),

tW Mtghboarnood of the Capo deW

*e*»t Cmpe Crimissa: hut the suppo-  
L l m the same place with the more an-

f d Crimtaaa is a ruere conjecture; as is

, with the modern town of Cird,

14 Pal era am again ocenrs in early eccle-

the see of a bishop, but after-

(Holiten. Sot ad Cluv.

toL I p. 213.) [E. H. B.]

[TiBiscus-]

(Anunian, xxiii. 6), one of the

mmtittned by Ammianus Mar-

Thia place is nowhere else

noticed; but it is not impossible that the name is a

barbarous corruption of the Tigrana of Ptolemy

(vi. 2. § 9). [V.]

PATMOS (IlaT^tiy: Patmo), one of the Sporaiies

Insulae, in the south-east of the Aegean, to the west

of Lepsia and south of Samoa, is said to have been

30 Roman miles in circumference. (Pliny, iv. 23;

Strab.x. p. 488; Thucyd. iii. 23; Eustath. ad D'wn.

Per. 530.) On the north-eastern side of the island

there was a town with a harbour of the same name

as the island, and the southernmost point formed the

promontory Amazonium (Stadia&m. Mar. Mag. p.

488, ed. Hoffmann). This little island is celebrated

as the place to which St John was banished towards

the close of the reign of Domitian, and where he is

said to have composed the Apocalypse {Revel, i. 9).

A cave is still shown in Patmos where the apostle is

believed to have received his revelations. (Com p.

Iren. ii. 22; Euseb. Hist Eccl iii. 18; Dion Cass,

lviii. 1.) The island contains several churches and

convents, and a few remains of the ancient town and

its castle. (Walpole, Turkey torn. ii. p. 43; Ross,

Reisen auf den Gricch. Inseln, vol. ii. p. 123,

foil.) [L. S.]

PATRAE (Tldrpcu; in Herod, i. 145, Harpies,

properly the name of the inhabitants: Eth. Tlarpevs,

Thuc.; Tlarpaievs, Pol. iv. 6; Patrensis: Patrasso.

Patras, Patra), a town of Achaia, and one of the

twelve Achaean cities, was situated on the coast, W.

of the promontory Rhium, near the opening of the

Corinthian gulf. (Herod, i. 145; Pol. ii. 41; Strab.

viii. p. 386.) It stood on one of the outlying spurs of

Mount PanachaYcus ( Voidhid), which rises imme­

diately behind it to the height of 6322 feet. It is

said to have been formed by an union of three small

places, named Aroe ('Aporj), Antheia ( AvOaa), and

Mesatis (Mefforij), which had been founded by the

Ionians, when they were in the occupation of the

country. After the expulsion of the Ionians, the

Achaean hero Patreus withdrew the inhabitants from

Antheia and Mesatis to Aroe, which he enlarged and

called Patrae after himself. The acropolis of the

city probably continued to bear the name of Aroe,

which was often used as synonymous with Patrae.

Strabo says that Patrae was funned by a coalescence

of seven demi; but this statement perhaps refers to

the restoration of the town mentioned below, (paus.

lit 18. §2, seq.; Strab. viii. p. 337.) In the Pelopon-

nesian War Patrae was the only one of the Achaean

cities which espoused the Athenian cause; and in

b,a 419, the inhabitants were persuaded by Alci-

biades to connect their city by means of long walls

with its port. (Thuc. v. 52; Pint Ale. 15.) After

the death of Alexander the city fell into the hands

of Cassander, but his troops were driven out of it by

Aristodemus, the general of Antigonus, n.c. 314.

(Diod. xix. 66.) In n.c. 280 Patrae and Dyme were

the first two Achaean cities which expelled the Mace­

donians, and their example being shortly afterwards

followed by Tritaeaand Pharae, tbe.Achaean League

was renewed by these four towns. [See Vol. I.

p. 15.] In the following year (b.c. 279) Patrae was

the only one of the Achaean cities which sent as­

sistance to the Actolians, when their country was

invaded by the Gauls. In the Social War Patrae is

frequently mentioned as the port at which Philip

landed in his expedition into Peloponnesus. In the

war between the Achaeans and the Romans Patrae

suffered so severely, that the greater part of the

inhabitants abandoned the city and took up their

abodes in the surrounding villages of Mesatis, An­

