1070 SYRIA. SYRIA.

the fanner passage, we have the Aramitcs of Betli-

Kehob, and the Aratnites of Soba, and the king of

Maacah, — in the Utter, Arum Naharaim = Meso­

potamia, and Aram Maacah and Zebah; from which

we may inter the identity of Beth-Rehob and Meso-

jmtamia, and the distinction between this latter and

Maacah or Zobah: and again, the alliance between

Hadadezer, kin? of Zobah.and the Arainites of Da­

mascus (2 Sam. viii. 3 — 6; 1 Chron. xix. 3 — 6)

would imply the continuity of the two states; while

the expedition of the former " to recover his border,"

or "establish Ids dominion at the river Euphrates"

(ver. 3), during which David attacked him, would

auppose a inarch from west to east,I hrough Syria,

rather than in the opposite direction through Meso­

potamia.

With regard to the origin of the name Aram,

there are two Patriarchs in the early genealogies

from whom it has been derived; one the son of

Shorn, the progenitor of the Hebrew race, whose

other children Uz, Asshur, Arphaxad, and Lud.

represent ancient kingdoms or races contiguous to

Syria; while Uz, the firstborn son of Aram, appa­

rently pave his name to the native land of Job, at a

very early period of the world's history. (Gen. x.

2*2, 23.) The other Aram was the grandson of

Nahor, the brother of Abraham, by Kemuel, whose

brother Huz is by some suppo-ed to have given his

name to the country of Job, as it can scarcely admit

of a doubt that the third brother, Boi, was the pa­

triarch from whom the neighbouring district took

its name. {Gat. xxii. 20, 21; Job, i. 1, xxxii. 2.)

Hut as we find the name Aram already applied to

describe the country of Bethuel and Laban, the uncle

and cousin of the later Aram, it is obvious that the

country must hare derived its name from the earlier,

not from the later patriarch. (Gen. xxv. 20, xxviii.

5, &c.)

The classical name Syria is commonly supposed

to be an abbreviation or modification of Assyria, and

to date from the period of the Assyrian subjugation

of the ancient Aram; and this account of its origin

is confirmed by the fact that the name Syria does

not occur in Homer or Hesiod, who speak of the

inhabitants of the country under the name of Arhni,

(civ 'Apipott, Horn. //. & 783. Hes. Tkeog. v. 304),

in connection with the myth of Typhon. recorded by

Strabo in describing the Orontes [OftOXTSS]; and

this writer informs us that the Syrians wjre called

Aramaei or Arimi (i. p. 42, xiii. p. G27, xvi. pp.784,

7S5), which name was, however, extended too far to

the west or north by other writers,so as to comprehend

Cilicia, and the Sacae of Scythia. (Sec Bochart,

Geo;/. Sac. lib. ii. cap. 6.) Herodotus, the earliest

extant writer who distinctly names the Syrians, de­

clares the people to be identical with the Assyrians,

where he is obviously speaking of the latter, making

the former to be the Greek, the latter the barbarian

name (vii. 63); ami this name he extends as far

south as the confines of Egypt,—placing Sidon, Azo-

tus, Cadytis, and, in short, the Phoenicians in ge­

neral, in Syria (ii. 12, 158, 159), calling the Jews

the Syrians in 1'alcstine (ii. 104): and as far west

us Asia Minor, for the Cappadocians, lie says, are

called Syrians by the Greeks (i. 72), and speaks of

the Syrians about the Thermodon and Parthenins,

rivers of Bithynia (ii. 104). Consistently with this

early notice, Stralw, at a much later period, states

that the name of Syri formerly extended from Baby­

lonia as far as the gulf of Issus, and thence as far

as tbe Euxiue (xvi. p. 737); and in this wider sense

the name is used by other classical writer*, saj &a

includes a tract of country on the wot wbkata

not comprehended within the widest ratri d thi

ancient Aram.

II. Natural boundaries and dicifiam. — Til

limits of Syria proper, which is now u> be m

are clearly defined by the Mediterranean <•

west, the Euphrates on the east, the range d i

DDI and Taurus on the north, and therrestli

of Arabia on the south. Ou the

long and narrow strip of coaM, commeoriir. it

rat bus, and running south to Mooot Cirad,

reckoned to Phoenice, and has two desrnwdi

that name. In compensation for this deaort*

the south-west, a much more ample space U

towards the south-east, by the rapii trending »i

the Euphrates eastward, between the 36th tad

degree north lat., from near the 38th to tbt 4l<

gree of east longitude, thereby increasing its

from the Mediterranean sea, from abuit 100

at Zeugma (Wr), to 250 miles at the Uwb&bi

Syria, south of Cireesium ( Karkisia). O

at the northern extremity of the Issetu SiBB»('

of fskanderun), near Issns itself, tbe As

Mons (Alma Dagh), a brunch of the Ti

runs off first in a northern direction far 18

then north-east for 30 more, until it joins tfe»

chain (Durdun Oagk\ a little westward of Mt

from whence it runs due eastward to tbe t:

The southern line cannot be accurately d^crfc-aV

being marked only by an imaginary Ea*

through an interminable waste of sand. Tail

gular trapezium may now be subdivided.

For the purposes of a physical de^-ripta*,

ranges of Lebanon and Antilibanus may be«

as landmarks towards the south, while Lb*

Orontes affords a convenient division in tfct

graphy of the country towards the noTta'fca

valley of the Orontes may be regarded ts *

ation northward of the great crevus <f

the watershed being in the vicinity of'

that u this degression extends along tbe vW

ern side of the country, having on each •ide.t!

nearly 6 degrees of latitude, an ahnoat ca«

chain of mountains, from which nameroa

strike into the interior in different

(Col. Chcsney, Expedition for the Arwy */^

Euphrates atui Tigris, voL i. p. 3$4.)

1. The western range.—Where theraaerrf.

nus meets the coast at the Gmffof Ith

the river Issus, it leaves only a narrow }■» h

its base and the sea, formerly occupied kyt

menian, Syrian, or Anmuidan gates of tie'

geographers, which will be again referred »

This range then advances southward* naiw1

names, approaching or receding from the

occasionally throwing out b>>ld beadkaJi iata'

sea, as at A'<l.< Khanzter.Ras Botyt (Fosanan

Ras-csh-Shaka, Sec The part of the «Aei

of the Orontes is thus described by OoL

(p. 384): M The base of Uie chaincfloaMtttf

of serpentines and diallape rocks, risiftj ■

from plains on each side, and supporting al

formation, terminating with bold ruprei

conical summits, having at the crest as

5387 feet- The sides of this mass art

furrowed by rocky fissures, or broken ia»

between which there is a succession of I

shoulders, either protruding thrwijh fnsu 4

oaks, and larches, or diversified by the

myrtle, oleander, and other shrubs. Saa*

