VOLSCL VOLSLNII. 1323

eontinoed constantly in the hinds of the Rinnans,

must have been a severe blow to the power of the

Volscians, and mar be considered as marking an era

in their decline. Throughout this period it is re­

markable that Antium, one of the most powerful

cities of the Volscians, continued to be on peaceful

terms with Rome; the war was carried on almost

exclusively upon the NE. frontier of the Volscians,

where they were supported by the Aequians, and

Ecetrs was the city which appears to have taken the

lead in it.

The capture of Rome by the Gauls marks the

commencement of the fourth period of the Volscian

Wars. It is probable that their Aequian allies suf­

fered severely from the same invasion of the barba­

rians that had so nearly proved the destruction of

Home [Arqui], and the Volscians who adjoined

their frontier, may have shared in the same disaster.

But on the other hand. Antium, which was evidently

at this period a powerful city, suddenly broke oft' its

friendly relations with Rome; and during a period of

neatly 13 years (b. c. 386—374), we find the Vol­

scians engaged in almost perpetual hostilities with

Rome, in which the Antiates uniformly took the

lead. The seat of war was now transferred from the

Aequian frontier to the southern foot of the Alban

hills: and the towns of Velitrae and Satricum were

taken and retaken by the Volscians and Romans.

Soon after the conclusion of peace with the Antiates

we hear for the first time of rrivernum, as engaging

in hostilities with Rome, B. c. 358, and it ia remark­

able that it comes forward single-handed. Indeed, if

there had ever been any political league or bond of

union among the Volscian cities, it would seem to

have been by this time completely broken up. The

Antiates again appear repeatedly in arms; and when

at length the general defection of the Latins and Cam-

panian* broke oat in u. c 340, they were among the

first to join the enemies of Rome, and laid waste the

whole sea-coast of Latium, almost to the wallsof Ostia.

But they shared in the defeat of the Latin armies,

h 'th at I'edum and on the Astura: Antium itself

was taken, and received a colony of Romans within

its walU, but at the same time the citizens them­

selves were admitted to the Roman franchise. (Liv.

viii. 14.) The people of Fundi and Kormiae, both of

them prolnbly Volscian cities, received the Roman

franchise at the same time, and Tarracina was soon

after occupied with a Roman colony. The I'riverr.ates

■ lone ventured once more to provoke the hostility of

tlie Romans in B. c. 327, but were tcverely punished,

ar.d their city was taken by the consul C. Plaulius.

Nevertheless, the inhabitants were admitted to the

K-rfnan Civitas; at fir*t, indeed, without the right of

iiiffntge, but they soon afterwards obtained the full

'ranchise, and were enrolled in the Utentine tribe.

I he gn-ster part of the Volscians, however, was in-

laded in the l'omptine tribe.

Ut tbe late of Hie cities that were situated on the

■orders of the valley of the Trerus, or in that of the

.iris, we have scarcely any information ; but there is

eason to suppose that whilo the Antiates and their

••isrfibours were engaged in hostilities with Rome,

he Volscians of the interior were on their side fully

reupied with opposing the advam eof the Sammies,

fur were their etforts in all cases successful. We

now that both Arpiuutn and Fregellac had been

rested from the Volscians by the Samnites, before

j* Ii n »■ - made their appearance in the coutest

Liv. Ttii. 33, ix. 44), and it is probable that the

her cities of the Volscians readily took shelter

under the protection of Rome, for security against

their common enemy. It seems certain, at all events,

that before the close of the Second Samnite War

(B.C. 304), the whole of the Volscian people had

submitted to the authority of Rome, and been ad­

mitted to the privileges of Roman citizens.

From this tune their name disappears from his­

tory. Their territory was comprised under the

general appellation of Latium, and tbe Volscian

people were merged in the great mass of the Roman

citizens. (Strab. v. pp. 228,231 ; Flin. iii, 5. s. 9 j

Cic.pro Balb. 13.) But a rude and simple mountain-

people would be naturally tenacious of their customs

and traditions ; and it is clear, from the manner in

which Juvenal incidentally alludes to it, that even

under the Roman rmipirc, the name of the Volscians

was by no means extinct or forgotten in the portion

of Central Italy which was still occupied by their

descendants. (Juv. SaU viii, 245.)

The physical geography of the land of the Volscians

will be found described in the article Latium. of

the peculiar characters of the people themselves, or

of any national customs or institutions that dis­

tinguished them from their Latin neighbours, we

know absolutely nothing. Their history is a record

only of the long struggle which they maintained

against the Roman power, and of the steps which led to

their ultimate subjugation. This is the only memory

that has been transmitted to us, of a people that was

for so long a period the most formidable rival of the

Roman Republic. [E. 11. B.]

VOLS1N1EXSIS LACUS (h wtol OiioAainoui

Ai^uf}, Strab. v. p. 226: Logo tii JJoUena), a con­

siderable lake of Etruria, scarcely inferior in size

to that of Trasimene. It took its name from tbe

town of Volsimi, which stood ou its NE. shore;

but it was also sometimes called Lac us Tarquini-

eusis, as its western side adjoined the territory

ofTarquimi. (Plin. ii. 96.) Notwithstanding its

great size, it is probable, from the nature of the sur­

rounding hills and rocks, that it is the crater of an

extinct volcano (Dennis, £trwia, vol. i. p. 514).

In this lake the river Marta has its source. It

abounded in nsh, and its sedgy shores harboured

large quantities of water-fowl, with which articles it

supplied the Roman markets. (Strab. /. c; Colum.

viii. 16 ) It contained two islands, of which, as well

as of the lake itself, wonderful stories were related

by the ancients. They were remarked to be ever

changing their forms (Flin. Lc). and on one occasion

during the Second Funic War its waters are said to

have flowed with blood. (Liv. xxvii. 23.) The

shores of the lake were noted for their quarries.

(Flin. xxxvi. 22. a. 49.) In a castle on one of tbe

islands queen Amalasontha waa murdered by order of

her husliand Theodatus. (Frocop. B. Ooih. i. c. 4,

p. 23, ed. Bonn.) [T. H. L»]

VOLSIMI or VULSIMI (Or/oAnuio.. Strab. v.

p. 226; OiioAcru'ior, Ftol. iii. 1. § 50: Uoltena), an

ancient city of Etruria, situated on the shore of a

lake of the same name (Lacus Volsiuiensis), and on

the Via Clodia, between Clusiuin and Forum Casaii.

(/fin. Ant. p. 286: /'•■•') But in treating of

Volsinii we must distinguish between the Etruscan

and the Roman city. We know that tlie ancient

town lay on a steep height (Zonaras.^nn. viii. 7 ; cf.

Aristot. Mir. Auk. 96); while Bolttna, tbe represen­

tative of the Roman Volsini, ia situated iu the plain.

There is considerable difference of opinion as to

where this height should be sought. Abeken (Stit-

Ulitalien, p. 34, seq.) looks fur it at Monte t'iatamt,

