SUEVT. SULCI. 1045

rprrly fixed, the Suetri were in the northern part

th« diocese of Freju*. [G. I*.]

Sl'fcVJ {lovSoi or 2oi/t)€oi), is the designation

riTery large portion of the population of ancient

naoT, ami comprised a great number of separate

In with distinctive names of their own, such as

e Srinnonea. German author* generally connect

i name Suevi with Swiban, i. e. to sway, move

tirariilf, and take it as a designation of the un-

and nugatory habit* of the people, to dis-

^■uiih then from the Ingaevones, who dwelt in

jyn or fixed habitations (Zeuss, Die Deutschen,

other>. however, and apparently with

ud rnuui, regard the name as of Celtic or even

iiwian origin; for the Romans no doubt em-

md the name!, not because indigenous in Ger-

ot, but because they beard it from the Celts

Gaol We must, however, from the first dia-

ftub ktween the Suevi of Caesar (B. G. i. 37,

, 54, iu. 7, ir. 1, &c.) and those of Tacitus

ms.38, &c-): the Suevi in Caesar occupied the

frm bonks of the Rhine, in and about tin- country

« cii'hi Bade*, while Tacitus describes them us

-ipjinjr, the country to the north and east of the  
m ii Caesar, so that the two writers assign to

eo quite a duTerent area of country. Strabo (vii.

190) again states that in his time the Suevi ex-

rial from the Khenus to the Albis. and that some

Mhii, fcuch as the Hermunduri and Longobardi,

I aJranocd even to the north of the Albis.

Either the nations called Suevi by Caetar and

tiiiu are the same, and if so, what causes induced

in in later times to migrate to the north and east,

i questions to which history furnishes no answers,

a possible, however, that those whom Caesar

wintered were only a branch of the great body,

"tu^s Chatti and Longobardi. That these latter

R pure Germans cannot be doubted , but the

in <i Tacitus, extending from the Baltic to the

ifebe, and occupying the greater part of Germany,

"ur>t contained many Celtic and still more Sta­

ll elements. It has iu fact been conjectured,

to gnat probability, that the name Suevi wits

pad to those tribes which were not pure Ger-

but more or less mixed with Slavonians; for

■ we can understand huw it happened that in

ir habits and mode of life they di tic red so widely

d the other Germans, as we see from Tacitus; and

wuld also account for the fact that in later times

sod Slavonians peaceably established in countries

iwusly occupied by Suevi. (Comp. PKn. iv. 28;

Li.lL § 15; Oros. L 2.) It deserves to be

wd that Tacitus (Germ. 2,45) calls all the

itrj inhabited by Suevian tribes by the name

i>ia. The name Suevi appcai-s to have been

wn to the Romans as early as B. c. 123 (Sisenna,

.V(m s.e. lamcea), and they were at all times re-

ied as a powerful and warlike people. Their

■try was covered by mighty forest*, but towns

f*U) also are tpoken of. (Caes. B. G. iv. 19.)

Germany became better known to the Romans, the

eric name Suevi fell mote and more into disuse,

the separate tribes were called by their own

*v although Ptolemy still applies the name of  
ti to the Semnones, Longobardi, and Angli.

u tiie second half of the third century we again

the name Suevi limited to the country to which

ad been applied by Caesar. (Amm. Marc. xvi.

J maud. Get. 55; Tab. Peut.) These Suevi,

I wbom the modern Suabia and the isuabiatu de-

uW names, seem to have been a body of ad*

venturers from various German tribes, who assumed

the ancient and illustrious name, which was as ap­

plicable to them as it was to the Suevi of old.

These later Suevi appear in alliance with the Ale-

mannians and Burgundians, and in possession of the

German side of Gaul, and Switzerland, and even in

Italy and Spain, where they joined the Visigoths.

Ricimer, who acts so prominent I part in the history

of the Roman empire, was a Suevian. (Comp. Zeuss,

I. c.\ Wiihelm, Gcrmanim, p. 101, &c; Grimm,

Deutsche Gram. i. pp. 8, 60. ii. p. 25, Gesch. dtr

Devlschen Spr. i. p. 494; Latham, ou Tacit Germ.

Epileg. p. lxxi.) [L. S.]

SUEVICUM MARE, is the name given by Ta­

citus (Germ. 45) to the Baltic Sea, which Ptolemy

calls the 2apjum*cos 'Clxtavd? (vii. 5. § 2, viiL 10.

§2.) [L.S.]

SUFES a place in Byzacena (/fin. Ant. pp. 47,

48, 49, 51, 55). Now Sbibaor SbiJtah. [T. H. I).]

SUFE'TULA a town of Byaacene, 25 miles

S. of Sufes. In its origin it seems to have

been a later and smaller place than the latter,

whence its name as a diminutive—little Sufes. In

process of time, however, it became a very con­

siderable town, as it appears to have been the centra

whence all the roads leading into the interior radi­

ated. Some vast and magnificent ruins, consisting

of the remains of three temples, a triumphal arch,

&c, at the present Sfaitla, which is seated on a

lofty plateau ou the right bank of the Wed Dtchmila,

80 kilometres SW. of Kairwan, attest its ancient

importance. (See Shaw's Travels, p. 107; Pe-

lissier, in Revue Archeol. July 1847.) [T. H. I).]

SUIA CSuta. Staph. B. *. v.: Eth. Sutrfriff,

Jufaft; 2v6a, Stadiusm, §§ 331,332), the harbour

of Elyrus in Crete, 50 stadia to the VY. of Pocci-

lassus, situated on a plain. It probabiy existed as

late as the time of Hierocles, though now entirely

uninhabited. Mr. Pashley (Traveh, vol. ii, p. 100)

found remains of the city walls as well as other

public buildings, but not more ancient than the

time of the Roman Empire. Several tombs exist

resembling those of Hayhio Ky'rho; an aqueduct

is also remaining. [E. B. J.]

SUILLUM [Hklvillum.]

SUINDINUM. [Uknomaki.]

SUIONES, are mentioned only by Tacitus {Germ.

44) as the most northern of tho German tribe*,

dwelling on an island iu the ocean. He was no doubt

thinking of Scandia or Scandinavia: and Suiones un­

questionably contains the root of the modern name

Sweden and Swedes. [L. S.]

SUISSA, a town in Armenia Minor (It. Ant.

pp. 207, 216), where, according to the Notitia

Imperii (p. 27), the Ala I. Ulpia Dscorum was

stationed ; but its site is now unknown. [L. S.]

SU1SSATIUM (in PtoL 2oo«o-TdVio*', ii. 6.

§ 65), a town of the Caristi in Hispania 'larra-

coneusis. The Geogr. Rav. (iv. 45) calls it S-u-

statium. It is the modern Vittvria. [T. II. I>]

SULCI (SoAxoi, Sieph. B, PtoLj 2oCAxoi,Strab.;

2uAfroi, Paus.: Eth. Sulcitanus: S. Antiucu), OfM

of the most considerable cities of Sardinia, situated

iu the SW. corner of the island, on a small island,

now called I sola of* 5. Antioco, which is. however,

joined to the mainland by a narrow isthmus or

neck of sand. S. of this isthmus, between the island

and the mainland, is an extensive bay, now called

the Golfo di Palmas, which was known in ancient

times as tlie Sulcitanus Port us (PtoL). The found­

ation of Sulci is expressly attributed to the Car; ha -

3x3

