164 LEROS, LESBOS.

the katavothra of the Arcadian rallies. The river

io«in after enters a small lake, a few hundred yards

in circumfcrcnce, and surrounded with a great

variety of aquatic plants; and it then forms a marsh

extending to the sea-bhore. Tlie lake is now waited

in. and the water is diverted into a small stream

which turns some mills standing close to the sea­

shore. This lake is evidently the Alcyonian pool of

1'ausaniax; f.»r although he docs not say that it is

finned by the river Amymone, there can be no

doubt of the fact. The lake answers exactly to the

description of Pausanias, with the exception of being

larger; and the tale of its Wing unfathomable is

still related by the millers in the neighbourhood. I

Pausanias is the only writer who calls tins lake the

Alcyonian pool; other writers gave it the name of j

Lernaeau; and the river Amy mono, by which it is'

formed, is likewise named Lerna. The fountain of

Ainphiaraus can no longer be identified, probably in |

confluence of the enlargement of the lake. The ,

suit ion of the hydra was under a palm-tree at the

source of the Amymone; and the numerous heads of

the water-snake may perhaps have been sug­

gested by the numerous sources of this river.

Amymone is frequently mentioned by the poets. It

is said to have derived its name from one of the

daughters of Danaus, who was beloved by Poseidon;

and the river gushed forth when the nymph drew out

of the rock the trident of the god. (Hygin. Fab.

169.) Hence Euripides (Phoen. 188) speaks of

TToTfiSwfia 'Auvfi&vta CSara. (Comp. Propert. ii.

26,47; Ov. Met ii. 240.)

(Dodwell, Classical Tour, vol. ii. p. 225; Leake,

Aiorrrt, vol. ii. p. 472, seq; Boblaye, Recherche*,

<fc. p. 47; Mure, Ttmr in Greece, vol. ii. p. 194;

Koss, Ueism im Pehponne*t\). 150; Curtius, Pelo-

pitntiesag, vol. ii. p. 3C8, se<j.)

LKKOS (A4pos: Eth. Aiptoi ; Leros), a small

island of the Aegean, and belonging to the scattered

islands called Sjwrades. It is situated opposite the

Sinus lassius, on the north of Calymna, and on the

south of Lepsia, at a distance of 320 stadia from

Ciai and 350 from Myndus. (Staduum. Afar. Mayni,

§§ 246, 250, 252.) According to a statement of

Anaximenesof LampsacuK, Leros was,like Iraros.colo-

nised by Milesians. (Stmb.xiv.(p. 635.) This was pro-

K*ih|y done in consequence of a .suggestion of Hecataeu*;

for on the breaking out of the revolt of the Ionians

against Persia, he advised his countrymen to erect a

fortress in the island, and make it the centre of

their operations, if they should I* driven from

Miletus. (Hcrud. v. 125; comp. Thucyd. viii. 27.)

Before its occupation by the Milesians, it was pro­

bably inhabited by Dorians. The inhabitants of

L<TM were notorious in antiquity for their ill nature,

whence Plwcytides sang of them : —

Aiptoi Ktucot, ovx o n'*v. *s o* uC,

neUrn, w\ijt> TipoicAiovt' KuX T\poK\frjt Atpiot.

(Strab. x. p. 487, Ac.) The town of Lems was

situated on the west of the modern town, on the

south hide of the bay, and on the slope of a hill; in

th s locality, at least, distinct traces of a town have

lteen discovered by Koss. (keisen aiif a\ Griech.

J rutin, ii. p. 119.) The plan of Hecatacus to fortify

Leros does not seem to have been carried into effect.

Leros never was an independent community, but was

governed by Miletus, as we must infer from inscrip­

tions, which also show that Milesians continued to

inhabit the island as late as th* time of the hV>mans.

Leros contained a sanctuary of Artemis Parthrnos,

in which, according to mythology, the riatm af

Melwiger were transformed into guinea fowls (»»-

\taypi6tt; Anton. Lib. 2; comp. Ov. J/ef. via. 533,

Ac), whence these birds were always kept in the

sanctuary of the goddess. (Athen. xir. p. 655.)

In a valley, about ten minutes' walk from the sea, a

small convent still bears the name of ParOtmi, and

at a little distance from it there are the ruins of an

ancient Christian church, evidently built upon ndw

ancient foundation, which seems to have bwn that U

the templeof Artemis Partlienos. "Thissmall island.*

says Riws, "thongh envied on acconnt of iufertility,

its smiling valleys, and its excellent harbours, is

nevertheless scorned by its neighbours, who charrw

its inhabitants with niggardliness" {I.e. p. 122;

comp. Bockh, Corp. Inscripi. n. 2263; Hoas,

Itucript. ined. ii. 188.) [L. &]

LESBOS (Mdios: Eth, and Adj. Ato-Ciai,

A(o€ik6s, Afa€iai(6s, Lesbius, Lesbious, Le*-

biacus : fern. Ata€i$t Ataxias, Lesbis, Lesbiaa: ia

the middle ages it was named Mitylene, from iu

principal city: Geog. Rav. v. 21: Suidas. *,«-.;

Hierocl. p. 686; Eustath. ad II. ix. 129, Od. in.

170: hence it is called by the modern Greeks

Mitylen or Metelmo, and by the Turks Medilli or

MedeUu-Adassi.') Like several other islands of the

Aegsan, Lesbos is said by Strabo, Pliny and othm

to have had various other names, Issa, H intent,

Lasia, Pelasgia, Aegira, Aethiope, and Materia.

(Strab. i. p. 160, v. p. 128; Plin. v. 31 (39); LhuL

iii. 55, v. 81.)

Lesbos is situated off the coast of Mysia, exactly

opposite the opening of the gulf of Adraimttiuin.

Iu northern part is separated from the mainland

nearAssos [Ashos] by a channel about 7 mile* bread;

and the distance between the south-eastern extremity

and the islands of Arginusae [Akoinubak] is ai»ol

the Fame. Strabo reckons the breadth of the frraer

strait at 60 stadia, and Pliny at 7 miles: for the

latter strait see Strab. xiii. pp. 616, 617, and Xrm.

Hell. i. 6. §§ 15—28. The island lies between the

parallels of 38° 58' and 39° 24'. Pliny state* the

circumference as 168 miles, Strabo as 1100 stasia.

Acconiing to Chniscul-Goumcr, the latter cvtiuuiit

is rather too great. Scylax (p. 56) assigns to L«-sd>*

the seventh rank in six* among tlie islands uf lbs

Mediterranean sea-

In shape I„e*bos may be roughly described as a

triangle, the sides of which face respectively th*

N\V., the NE., and the S\V. The northern poiat is

the promontory of Argennum, the western is that sji

Sigrium (still called Cape Sign), the south-eastern

is that of Malea (now called Zeitoun fttmrovm or Cape

St. Mary). But though this description <sf lbs

island as triangular is generally correct, it most be

noticed that it is penetrated far into the interior by

two gulfs, or sea-hn-Ks as they may properly to

called, on the south-western aide. One of uW t»

Port Iliero or Port Olieier, ** one of the beet har­

bours of the Archipelago," opening from the •*»

about 4 miles to the westward of Cape Malea. ard

extending about 8 miles inland among the moon lain*.

It may be reasonably conjectured that its anew**,

name was Port us Hieraeus; since Pliny roentwe.* *

Lesbian city called Hiera, which was extinct before

his time. The other arm of the sea, to which we

hare alluded, is about half-way between the furmrr

and Cape Sigrium. It is tlie ** beautiful and ex­

tensive basin, named Port Calami' and aacawatry

called Eunpus Pyrrhaeus. Knmi the extreme n*r-

rowDesa of the entrance, it b was adapted hr taw/

