MARSL 2S1 MARSI.

by tbeir neig hbours and kinsfolk the Peligni, Mar-

rucini, and Vestini, an well as by the Sainnites,

Frentani, and Lucanians. (Appian, B. C. i. 39;

I-iv. Epit. Ixxii.; Oros. v. 18.) During the military

operations that followed, imperfect as is our informa­

tion concerning then), we may clearly discern that

the allies formed two principal groups; the one

composed of the Marsi, with their immediate neigh­

bours already mentioned, as well as the Picentes, and

probably the Frentani; the other of the Samnites,

with the Lucanians, Apulians, and some of the

Campanians. The Marsi appear to have stood, by

common consent, at the head of the former section;

and hence we frequently find their name alone men­

tioned, where it is clear that their confederates also

fought by their side. At the first outbreak of the

war (b. c 91), they laid siege to Alba Fucensis,

a Ridiutn colony and a strong fortress (Liv. Epit.

Ixxii ), which appears to have at first defied all their

efforts. But the Roman consul P. Rutilius, who

was sent against them, proved unequal to the task.

One division of his army, under Perpenna, was cut to

pieces at the outset of the campaign; and somewhat

later the consul himself was defeated and slain by

the allied forces under Vettius Cato. (Appian, B. C.

L 43; Liv. EpiL lxxiiL; Oros. v. 18.) C. Marius,

who was acting as legate to Rutilius, is said to have

retrieved this disaster; and afterwards, in conjunc­

tion with Sulla, achieved a decisive victory over the

Mini, in which it is said that the allies lost 6000

men, and the leader or praetor of the Marrucini,

Henna Asinius, was slain. But notwithstanding

this advantage, it appears that Marius himself was

unable to keep the field, and was almost blockaded

in bis camp by Pompaedius Silo; and when at

length he ventured on a third battle, it had no

decisive result. Meanwhile, his colleague in the

command, Q. Caepio, was totally defeated and cut to

pieces with his whole army by the Marsi; while an

advantage gained by Ser. Sulpiciu.s over the Peligni

appears to have led to no important result. (Liv.

£pit. Ixxui. lxxiv.; Appian B. C. i. 4G; Plut. Mar.

33; Oros. v. 18.) The next campaign (b. c. 89)

proved at first scarcely more favourable to the

Roman arms; fur though the consul L. Pore i us

Cato obtained some successes over the Marsi and

tbeir allies, be was himself slain in a battle near the

lake Fucinus. (Appian, B. C. i. 50; Oros. v. 18.)

but it is probable that the policy adopted by the

Kenans in admitting to the franchise all those of the

ailw who were willing to submit had a great

leniency to disarm the confederates, as well as to

introduce dissensions among them; and this cause,

combined with the successful operations of the consul

Cn. Pompeius Strabo and his lieutenant Sulpicius,

etfected the submission of the Marrucini, Vestini,

and Peligni before the close of the year. The

Mirsi tor a time still held out, though single-handed;

bat repeated defeats at length compelled them

also to sue for peace. (Liv. Epit. lxxvi.; Oros. v.

18.) Notwithstanding their obstinate resistance, they

were admitted to favourable terms, and received, in

common with the rest of the Italians, the full rights

ti Kc/man citizens.

from this time the Marsi as a nation disappear

Ernca history, and became merged in the common

t>*diuon of the Italians. They however, still re­

tained much of their national character, and their

exigence as a 5*[*rate tribe is acknowledged by

Raaj Eoman writers, both of the Republic and

Xapcrt. In the civil war between Caesar and

Pompey they appear to have been at first favourably

disposed to the latter; and the twenty cohorts with

which Domitins occupied Corfinium were principally

raised among the Marsi and Peligni, or their imme­

diate neighbours. (Caes. B. C. i. 15, 20.) In like

manner, the Marsi are mentioned as declaring them­

selves, as a people, in favour of Vespasian during the

civil war between him and Vitellius. (lac. But,

iii. 59.) In the days of Cicero, the Marsi and

Peligni, as well as the Sabines, were comprised in

the Sergian tribe(Cic. in Vatin. 15; Schol. Bob. ad

loc.); and at a later period all three were included

in the Fourth Region of Augustus, which, according

to Pliny, was composed of the bravest nations of all

Italy. (Plin. iii. 12. s. 17.) In the later division

of the Empire, the territory of the Marsi (Marsorum

regio) was included in the province named Valeria.

(P. Diae. ii. 20; Lib. Col. p. 229.) It appears to

have early formed a separate ecclesiastical diocese;

and in the middle ages the bishop of Marruvium

bore the title of " Kpiscopus Marsorum," which is

still retained by the bKhops of Pescina,lo which place

the see has been transferred. (Bingham's Eccle­

siastical Antiquities, took ix.ch. 5. § 3.) The dis­

trict comprised within it is still familiarly called "the

land of the Marsi,'' and the noble Roman family of

Colonna bears the title of Counts of the Marsi.

(K. Craven's Abruzzi, vol. i. p. 144.)

The Marsi appear to have been always celebrated

in ancient times, even beyond their hardy and war­

like neighbours, for their valour and spirit in war.

Virgil adduces them as the 6rst and most prominent

example of the " genus acre virum" which Italy was

able to produce: and Horace alludes to the " Marsic

cohorts" as an almost proverbial expression for the

bravest troops in the Roman army. (Virg. Georg. ii.

167; Hor. Carm. ii. 20. 18, iii. 5. 9.) Appian also

tells us that a proverbial saying was current at the

time of the outbreak of the Social War, that no tri­

umph had ever been gained orer the Marsi or with­

out the Marsi (Appian, B. C. i. 46). The historical

accuracy of this saying will not bear examination,

but it sufficiently proves the high character they had

earned as Roman auxiliaries. In common with the

Sabines and other mountain tribes, they retained down

to a late period their rustic and frugal habits; and

are cited by the Roman poets as examples of primi­

tive simplicity. (Juv. iii. 169, xiv. 180.)

But the most remarkable characteristic of the

Martians was their peculiar skill in magical charms

and incantations,—especially inchurmiiig venomous

reptiles, so as to render them innoxious. This power,

which they were said to have derived from their an­

cestress Circe, or from the local divinity Angitia,

who was described as her sister, was not confined to

a few individuals, though the priests appear to have

principally exercibed it, but, according to Silius Ita-

licus, was possessed by the whole body of the nation.

(Virg. Jen. vii. 750—758; Sil. Ital. viu.495—501;

Plin. vii. 2, xxi. 13. s. 25, xxviii. 3. s. 6 ; Solin. 2.

§27; Cell. xvi. 11; Lamprid. Htlioyab. 23.) It

is worthy of notice that the inhabitants of these re­

gions still pretend to possess the same occult powers

as their ancestors: and are often seen as wanderers

in the streets of Naples carrying boxes full of ser­

pents of various sizes and colours, against the bites

of which they profess to charm both themselves and

the spectators. (Craven's Abruzzi, vol. i. p. 145.)

The physical characters of the land of the Marsi

have been already described under the article of the

lake Flci.nlsj the basin of which, surrounded ou

