MASSILIA. 291 MASSILTA.

conclusion, that if it was wine and water, the wine

came from foreign commerce, and commerce anterior

to the arrivaj of the Phocaeans ; "for the vine was

not yet introduced into Gaul." But the vino is a

native of Gallia Xarbonensis, and king Nannus may

have bad wine of his own making. The Phocaeans

n w built Massalia; and though they were con­

tinually harassed by the Ligurians, they beat them

off, conquered fresh territories, and built new cities

in them. The time of the settlement of Massalia is

fired by Scymnus Chios 120 years before the battle

of Marathon, or B.C. 600.

Strnbo (iv. p. 179) found in some of his autho­

rities a story that the Phocaeans before they sailed to

Gallia were told by an oracle to take a guide from

Artemis of Ephesus; and accordingly they went to

Ephesus to ask the goddess how they should obey

the nracular order. The goddess appeared to Aris-

tarrbe. one of the women of noblest rank in Ephesus,

ia a dream, and bade her join the expedition, and

take with her a statue from the temple. Aristarche

*ent with the adventurers, who built a temple to  
Artemis, and mode Aristarche the priestess. In all

tih-ir colonies the Massaliots established the worship

cf Artemis, and set np the same kind of wooden

»Utue, and instituted the same rites as in the mother-

bty. For though Phocaea founded Massalia, Ephe-

his was the city which gave to it its religion.

[Ephe.si-3, VoL I. p. 834.]

The Galli, as Justin calls them, learned from the

Massaliots the usages of civilised life (Justin, xliii.

4). to niltivate the ground, and to build walls round

their ti;ies. They learned to live under the rules of

Uw. tw j.rune the vine, and to plant the olive. Thus

Greek civility was imported into barbaric Gallia,

arid France still possesses a large and beautiful city,

a la>tin£ memorial of Greek enterprise.

Nannus died, and was succeeded by his son Co-

minoa. to whom a cunning Ligurian suggested that

Mawalia would some time ruin all the neighbouring

people, and that it onght to be stifled in its infancy.

He told him the fable of the bitch and her whelps,

which Phaedrus has (i- 19): but this part of the old

!>tary U hardly credible. However, the king took

fcivmtage of a festival in Massalia, which Justin

ealla by the Roman name of Floralia, to send some

soot men there under the protection of Massaliot

Q»pitality.and others in carts, concealed in hampers

covered with leaves. He posted himself with his

troop* hi the nearest mountains, ready to enter the

city whpn his men should open the gates at night,

"d the Massaliots were sunk in sleep and filled with

*ine. But a woman spoiled the plot. She was a  
kinsman of the king, and had a Greek for her lover.

Sk wis moved with compassion for the handsome

Tiaitli as ahe lay in his arms: she told him of the

treachery, and urged him to save his life. The man

r*f«"i«i it to the magistrates of the city. The Li­

re runs were pulled out of their hiiing-placcs and

nassscred, and the treacherous king was surprised

*ken he did not expect it, and cut to pieces with  
7000 of hU men. From this time the Massaliots

w fatal days shut their gates, kept good watch,

tr«d exercised a vigilant superintendence over

tfnn^erb.

The traditions of the early history of Massalia

*-»** in appearance of truth. Everything is natural.  
A woman's love founded and saved Massalia. A

**nan*i tender heart saved the life of the noble  
£:c!t*hiran who rescued tho infant colony of Vir-

pa» from de&truction ; and the same gentle and

heroic woman, Pocahontas, by marrying another

Englishman, made peace between the settlers and

the savages, and secured for England a firm footing

in Chesapeake Bay.

Livy's story (v. 34) of the Phocaeans landing on

the site of Massalia at the time of Bellovesus and his

Celts being on the way to invade Italy, is of no value.

When Cyrus invaded Ionia (b. c. 546), part of

the Phocaeans left Phocaea and sailed to Alalia in

Corsica, where the Phocaeans had made a settlement

twenty years before, Herodotus, who tells the his­

tory of these adventurers at some length, says nothing

of their settlement at Massalia. (i. 163—167.)

Strabo (vi. p. 252), on the authority of Antiochus,

names Creontiades as the commander of the Pho­

caeans who fled from their country on the Persian

invasion, and went to Corsica and Massalia, whence

being driven away, they founded Velia in Italy. It

is generally said that the exiles from Phocaea formed

the second colony to Massalia; but though it seems

likely enough, the evidence is rather imperfect.

When Thucydides says (i. 13) that the Phocaeans

while they were founding Massalia defeated the

Carthaginians in a nival battle, we get nothing

from this fact as to the second settlement of Mas­

salia. We only learn that the Carthaginians, who

were probably looking out for trading posts on the

Gallic shore, or were already there, came into con­

flict with the Phocaeans; and if we interpret Thucy­

dides' words as we ought to do, he means at the time

of the settlement of Massalia, whenever that was,

Pausanias, who is not a careless writer (x. 8. § 6),

states that the Massaliots were a Phocaean colony,

and a jjart of those who fled from Harpagus the

Mede ; and that having gained a victory over the

Carthaginians, they got possession of the country

which they now have. The Phocaeans dedicated a

bronze statue to Apollo at Delphi to commemorate

the victory. There seems, then, to have heen an

opinion current, that some of the exiles at the time

of the Persian invasion settled at Massalia; and ulso

a confusion between the two settlements. Justin,

following Trogus, speaks of the Massaliots having

great wars with the Galli and Ligurcs, and of their

often defeating the Carthaginian armies in a war that

arose out of some fishing vessels being taken, and

granting them peace They also were, he s.-iys, in

alliance with Rome almost fruin the time of founding

their city ; but it seems that he had forgotten what

he said a little before, that it was not almost from

that time, but even before. They also contributed

gold and silver to pay the ransom when the Galli

took Rome, for which they received freedom from

taxation (i mm unit as), and other privileges; which is

very absurd, and certainly untrue. The historical

connection of Rome and Massalia belongs to a later

time.

Massalia was built on rocky ground. The harbour

lay beneath a rock in the form of a theatre, which

looked to the south. Both the harbour and the city

were well walled, and the city was of considerable

extent. On the citadel stood the Ephesium, and

tho temple of Delphinian Apollo, which was a com­

mon sanctuary of all the Ionian*, but the Kphesiom

was a temple of Artemis of Ephesus. The Mas­

saliots had ship-houses (yewaoiKoi) and an armoury

(owAo0i7*i)); and in the time of their prosperity

they had many vessels, arms, and stores of ammu­

nition both for navigation and for the siege of cities;

by which means they kept off the barbarians and

gained the friendship of the Romans. (Strab. pp.

v 2

