l.'.r, LEMNOS. LEMNOS.

Litter is nearly double the true diatanrc. Several

ancient writers, however, state that Mount Athos

cast its shadow upon the island. (Soph. ap. Schol.

ad Thencr. vi. 76; Plin. /. c) Pliny also relates

that Lemnos is 112 miles in circuit, which is per­

haps not Car from the truth, if we reckon all the

windings of the coast. Its area is nearly 150 square

miles. It is of an irregular quadrilateral shape,

being nearly divided into two peninsulas by two deep

bays, Port Paradise on the N., and Port St. Antony

on the S. The latter is a large and convenient har­

bour. On the eastern side of the island is a bold

rock projecting into the sea, called by Aeschylus

'Eppuitov AcVar A-huvev. in his description of the

beacon fires between Mount Ida and Mycenae, an-

nonncing the capture of Troy. (Aesch. Agam

283; comp. Soph. PhilocL 1459.) Hills, but of no

great height, cover two-thirds of the island ; they

are barren and rocky, and there are very few trees,

except in some of the narrow valleys. The whole

Island bears the strongest marks of the effects of

volcanic fire; the rocks, in many places, are like the

burnt and vitrified scoria of furnaces. Hence we

may account for its connection with Hephaestus, who,

when hurled from heaven by Zeus, is said to have

fallen upon I*emnos. (Horn. II. i. 594.) The island

was therefore sacred to Hephaestus (Xicandr. Thtr.

438; Ov. Fast. iii. 82), who was frequently called

the Lemnian god. (Ov. Met. iv. 185; Virg. Am.

vii). 454.) From its volcanic appearance it de­

rived its name of Aethaleia (AifldAfia, l'olyb. ap.

Steph. B., and Etym. M. «. r. AifloAn). It was also

related that from one of its mountains, called

MosYCHLUfl (Mdtn/YAor), fire was seen to blaze

forth. (Antimach. ap. Schol. ad Sicandr. Tlirr. 472;

Lycophr. 227; Hesych. t. ».) In a village in the

island, named Ckorotu, there is a hot-spring, called

Thirmui, where a commodious balh has been built,

witli a lodging-house for strangers, who frequent it for

its suppose*! incffkinal qualities. The name of Lemnos

is said to have been derived from the name of the

Great Goddess, who v:as called Lemnos by the original

inhabitants of the island. (Hecat. ap. Steph. B.

$.r.)

The earliest inhabitants of Lemnos, according to

Homer, were the Simtiks (2t*rifj)i a Thrmcian

tribe; a name, however, which probably only sig­

nifies robbers (from alwuu). (Horn. //. i. 594, Od.

▼iii. 294; Strab. vii. p. 331, x, p. 457, xii. p. 549.)

When the Argonaut* landed at Lemnos, they are

said to have found it inhabited only by women, who

had murdered all their husbands, and had chosen as

their queen Hypsipyle, the daughter of Thoas, the

former King of the island. [See Diet, of Biogr.

art. Hyi-sii'TLk.] Some of the Argonauts settled

here, and became by the Lemnian women the fathers

of the Minyak (Minioi), the later inhabitants of the

island. Tlie Minyae were driven out of the island by

the Tyrrhenian I'elasgians, who had been expelled

from Attica. (Herod, iv. 145, vi. 137; Apoll.

Rood. i. 608, seq, and Schol.; Apollod. i. 9. § 17,

iii. 6. § 4.) It is also related that these I'elas­

gians, out of revenge, made a descent upon the coast

of Attica during the festival of Artemis at Brauron,

ami carried off some Athenian women, whom they

made their concubines; but, as the children of

these women despised their half-brothers born of Pe-

lasgian women, the I'elasgians murdered both them

and their Athenian mothers. Iu consequence of this

atrocity, and of the former murder of the Lemnian

husbands by their wives, " Lemnian Deeds" (AVyi»ia

fpyet) became a proverb throughout Greece for all

atrocious acts. (Herod, vi. 128; Eustath. ad 1L

p. 158. 11, ail Dumys. Per. 347; Zenob. iv. 91.)

Lemnos continued to be inhabited by IVlassrian",

when it was conquered by Otanes, one of the gene­

rals of Darius Hystaspis (Herod, v. 2C); but MU-

tiades delivered it from the Persians, ami made it

subject to Athens, in whose power it remained for a

long time. (Herod, vi. 137; Thnc. iv. 2H, vii. 57.)

In fact, it was always regarded as an Athenian ym-

session, and accordingly the [>eace of Antalcidas,

which declared the independence of all the Grecian

states, nevertheless allowed the Athenians to retain

possession of Leinnos, Imbrt>s, and Scyros. {.\«i.

II.'i. iv. 8. § 15, v. 1. § 31.) At a Liter peri.<i

Leinnos passed into the hands of the Macedonians,

but it was restored to the Athenians by the Romans.

(l'olyb. xxx. 18.)

In the earliest times, Lemnos appears to have

contained only one town, which bore the sjune nan*

as the island (Horn. J I. xiv. 230); but at a later

|>criod we find two towns, Myrina and Hephaestus.

Myiuna (Mvpiva: F.th. Mvptpatot) stood on the

western side of the island, as we may infer from the

statement of Pliny, that the shadow of ML Atlws

was visible in the forum of the city at the time of

the summer solstice. (Plin. iv. 12. a. 23; Herod,

vi. 140; Steph. B. >. v.; Ptol.iii. 13. § 4.) Ouits

site stands the modern Kmiro, which is still tlx

chief town in the place. In contains about 2000

inhabitants; and its little port is defended by a

pier, and commanded by a ruinous mediaeval fortress

on the overhanging rocks. Hki'Iiakstiak, or Ha>

imiakstia ('Hvtwio-Ti'as, 'Htpaiorta: AM. H<xzi-

ffTicus), was situated in the northern part of tlie

island. (Herod., Plin., Ptol. U. «.; Steph. B.s. r.)

There are coins of Hephaestia (see below), but note

of Mvrina, and none bearing tlie name of the island.

(Eck'hel, vol. ii. p. 51.)

According to Pliny (xxxvi. 13. s. 19) Letunos

had a celebrated labyrinth, supported by 150

columns, and with gates so well poised, that a

child could open them. Pliny adds, that there

were still truces of it ill his time. Dr. Hunt,

who visited the island in 1S01, attempted to find

out the ruins of this labyrinth, aud was directed to

a subterraneous staircase in an uninhabited fori "f

the island, near a bay, called PtmrniiJt. He here

found extensive ruins of an ancient and strmc

building that seemed to have had a ditrh rousd it

communicating with the sea. "The edifices have

covered about 10 acres of ground: there are fourxla-

tions of an amazing number of small buiMinr,*

within the outer wall, each about seven feet s.)mre.

The walls towards tlie sea are strong, and com­

posed of Urge square blocks of stone. On an

elevated spot of ground in one corner of the area, we

found a subterraneous staircase, and, after lighting

our tapers, we went down into it The entrants'

was difficult: it consisted of 51 steps, and abuat

every twelfth one was of marble, tin others of com­

mon stone. At the bottom is a small chamber with

a well in it, by which probably the garrison was

supplied: a censer, a lamp, and a few matches, were

lying in a corner, for the use of the Greek Christiana,

who call this well an A-vIcur^o, or Holy Ft sslm,

and the ruins about it Panwjia Coccipt*. The

peasants in the neighbourhood had no knowledge of

any sculpture, or statues, or medals having ever

been found there." It does not appear, huwever.

that these ruins have any relation to the labyrinth

