PALAESTLNA.

palaestina: 525

sw£nr; off a solid surface of salt, several inches in

; they were collecting it and loading it on

'(Tramb, p. 139.) It has been sometimes

that the water is so saturated with salt

laal salt cannot be dissolved in it The experi-

bbbbs waa tried by Lieut. Lynch with the following

r>-=Jc; —44 Tried the relative density of the water

af law aw and of the Atlantic — distilled wuter

tosga* 1. Toe water of the Atlantic was 1*02,

that of thai aca 1*13; the last dissolved fa, the water

«f tW Atlantic £. and distilled water ^, of its

■vizhl mf salt The boats were found to draw 1

rati lata water when afloat upon this sea than in

tar rtwar." (Lynch, p. 377.) The experiment tried

> Vrspaakian baa been repeated by nearly all tra­

ct" cuur*e with the same result The density

of the waters is such that it is im-

ik in it "A muscular man floated

high, without the least exertion."

of the waters have been made with

ta, to be accounted for, as Or. Kobinson

■aaM, by the various states of the sea at dif-

irva: nm; far its body of water is increased to

fl» awgat of 7 feet or more in the rainy season

tlyori, pk. 289), oar, according to Dr. Robinson, 10

0? 13 imwt; for he found traces of its high-water

awn. at Use south end, in the month of May, more

ith of its limit at that time. The

are the results of' the analyses, the standard

fur the specific gravity being distilled

at 1000: —

. Res. ii. pp. 224,225.)

aya;—u The excessive saltoeas of the

is maily accounted for by the washing

•"the ■amanuua and extensive salt-beds, which

mfcer to the formation of the basin, in which

rr bvmd bituminous rocks in sufficient quan-

■ ■ ihJw na* without doing violence to science, to

at aeveraU chemical and physical peculiarities

■» Aar-water bj the continual contact of these

Cfcj vita wmter strongly impregnated with salt."

••». — Tb« enormous quantity of

|r tmmr.ht down by the Jordan, particularly in

it won. and by the other streams around

1 ntne of which are very considerable,

C tbm Arnoo was found to be 82 feet wide

n omrft ml it* mouth, — is all carried off by

■am; and. wbeo the small extent of the sea

arva, H at eleau- that the decomposition of its

t xt be very rapid. The ancient writers

•f a mtt arms amell, of bubbles like those of

mt uracil seot, and an invisible vapour,

naetala, and deleterious to the intu­

it* change of aspect thrice a day may

to the same cause. Now it is

that nemrir all these phaenomena have

by parent explorers, and the single one

m sax cooBrnwd m accounted for in a manner

it the ancient geographers from

the charge of misrepresentation or exaggeration; and

it may well be believed that the enormous chemical

processes, perpetually going forward in the depths of

the sea, may occasionally produce effects upon the

surface which have not been chronicled by any

modern traveller. Lieut. Lynch, while encamped

near Engedi, remarked, "a strong smell of sul­

phuretted hydrogen," though there are no thermal

springs in this vicinity; and again," a foetid sul­

phureous odour in the night;" — " the north wind,

quite fresh,and accompanied with a smell of sulphur."

Lieut Molyneux detected the same disagreeable

smell the night he spent upon the sea, which lie

ascribed to the water (Journal of the R. Oeog.

Soc. vol. xviii. p. 127, 1848.) But Lieut Lynch

states that, M although the water was greasy, acrid,

and disagreeable, it was perfectly inodorous." He

is therefore inclined to attribute the noxious smell to

the foetid springs and marshes along the shores of

the sea, increased, perhaps, by exhalations from

stagnant pools in the flat plain which bounds it to

the north. (Expedition, pp. 292, 294, 296, 300.)

The 11 pale-blue misty appearance over the sea."

"the air over the sea, very misty," and "the two

extremities of the sea misty, with constant evapora­

tion" (p. 294), are other notes indicating the un­

natural state of the atmosphere surcharged with the

gases disengaged by the process. On a stormy night

"the surface of the sea was one wide sheet of pho-<-

phorescent foam, so that a dark object could have

been discerned at a great distance" (p. 281; comj>.

Molyneux, /. c. p. 129). A kind of mirage, no­

ticed by many travellers, may be attributed to the

same cause. "A thin haze-like vapour over the

southern sea:—appearance of an island between the

two shores" (p. 288). This phaenomenon is more

fully noticed by Irby and Mangles: M This evening,

at sunset, we were deceived by a dark shade on the

sea, which assumed so exactly the appearance of an

island that we entertained no doubt regarding it,

even after looking through a telescope. It is not

the only time thst such a phaenomenon has pre­

sented itself to us; in two instances, looking up the

sea from its southern extremity, we saw it apparently

closed by a low, dark line, like a bar of sand to the

northward; and, on a third occasion, two small

islands seemed to present themselves between a long

sharp promontory and the western shore. We were

unable to account for these appearances, but felt

little doubt that tliey are the same that deceived

Mr. Seetzen into the supposition that he had dis­

covered an island of some extent, which we have

had op|>ortunity of ascertaining, beyond all doubt,

does not exist It is not absolutely impossible,

however, that he may have seen one of those tem­

porary islands of bitumen, which Pliny describes as

being several acres in extent" (Travel*, p. 141.)

Two effects of the heavy atmosphere of the sea

remain to be noticed: one, the irresistible feeling of

drowsiness which it induced in all who navigated

it; the other, confirming, in a remarkable manner,

the ancient testimonies, above cited, that the water

appeared to be destructive to everything it touched,

particularly metals; viz. that ;t everything in the bo;tt

was covered with a nasty slimy substance, iron

dreadfully corroded, and looked as if covered with

coal-tar." (Molyneux, I. c. p. 128.) The " bubbles

like those of boiling water," mentioned by Strabo,

may be identified with the curious broad strip of

foam, lying in a straight line nearly north and south

throughout the whole length of the sea, which

