2.14 MACEDONIA

MACEDONIA.

times as they do now, accordingly as tliey dwell in

Mountain or plain, or in toil or climate more or less

kindly, though distinguished from each other, by

having substantive names of their own, acknowledged j

one common nationality. Finally, the various sec­

tions, such as the Elymiotae, Orestae, Lyncestae,

and others, were swallowed up by those who were

pre-eminently known as the Macedonians, who had

their original centre at Aegae or Edessa. (Comp.

Grote, Jiut. of Greece, c. xxv.)

Macedonia in iu proper sense, it will be seen, did

not touch upon the sea, and must be distinguished

into two parts,— 1'ppk.k Macedonia, inhabited by

jieoplo about the \V. range of mountains extending

from the N. as far as Pindus, and Lowek Mace­

donia about the rivers which How into the Axius; in

the earlier times, not, however, extending as far as

the Axius, but only to Pella. From this district,

the Macedonians extended themselves, and partly re­

pressed the original inhabitants. The whole of the

sea-coast was occupied by other tribes who are

mentioned by Thucydidcs (ii. 99) in his episode on

the expedition of the Thracians against Macedonia.

There is some little difficulty in harmonising his

statements with those of Herodotus (viii. 138), as to

the original series of occupants on the Thermaic

gulf, anterior to the Macedonian conquer. So far

as it can be made out, it would seem that in the

seventh century b. c, the narrow strip between

the Peneius and Haliacinon, was the original abode

of the Pierian Thracians; N. of the l'ierians, from

the mouth of the llaliacinon to that of the Axius,

dwelt the Bottiacai, who, when they were expelled

by the Macedonians, went to Chalcidicc. Next

fallowed the Paeoniaus, who occupied both banks of

the Strymon, from its source duwn to the lake near

its mouth, but were pushed away from the coast

towards the interior. Mygdonia. the lower country

E. of the Axius, about the Thermaic gulf, was, pre­

viously to the extension of the Macedonians, in­

habited by Thracian Kdonians. While Upper Mace­

donia never attained to any importance, Lower

Macedonia has lieen famous in the history of the

world. This was owing to the energy of the royal

dynasty of Edessa, who called themselves Heracleids,

and traced their descent to the Tenicnidae of Argot.

Kcspecting this family,there were two legends:accord­

ing to the one,the kings were descended fromCaranus,

and according to the other from Perdiccas: the latter

tale which is given by Herodotus (viii. 137 —139),

bears much more the marks of a genuine local tra­

dition, than the other which cannot be traced higher

than Theojiompus. (Dexipptis up. StjnceU. p. 2<»2.)

After the legend of the foundation of the Mace­

donian kingduin, there is nothing but a long blank,

until the reign of king Amyntas (about 520—500

B. c ), and his ion Alexander (al>out 480 B. c).

Herodotus (/. c: comp. '1 hue. ii. 100) give* a list of

live successive kings between the founder Perdiccas

and Alexander — Perdiccas, Argaeus, Philipjms,

Ac'ropas, Alcetas, Amyntas, and Alexander, the con­

temporary, and to a certain extent ally, of Xerxes.

During ttie reign of these two last princes, who were

on friendly terms with the Peisistratidae, and after­

wards with the emaneij>ated Athenians, Macedonia

becomes implicated in the affairs of Greece, (lierod.

L 59, t. 94, vii. 136.)

Many barbarous customs, such as that of tattoo­

ing, which prevailed among the Thracians and I IK',

nans, must have fallen into disuse at a vary early

period. Even the usage of the ancient Macedonians,

that every person who had not killed an enemy,

should wear some disgraceful badge, had been uW

continucd in the time of Aristotle. (/W. rii. 2. § 6.)

Vet at a very late date no one was permitted to Im

down at table who had not slain a wild boar without

the nets. (Hcgesander, ap. Allien, i. p. 18.) Ou

the other hand, a military disposition, persof^l

valour, and a certain freedom of spirit, were tl;e

national characteristics of this people. Long before

Philip organised his phalanx, the cavalry of Maceu.-n

was greatly celebrated, especially that of the high­

lands, as is shown by the tetradrachms of Ah-x-

ander I. In smaller numbers they attacked tb»

close array of the Thracians of Sitalces, relying on

their skill in horsemanship, and on tlieir defensive

armour. (Thuc. ii. 100.) Teleutias the Spartan

also admiral the cavalry of Elimea (Xen. Utll. v. 2.

§ 41, v. 3. § 1); and in the days of the conquests of

Asia, the custom remained that the king could nut

condemn any person without having first taken tha

voice of the people or of the army. (Polyb, t. 27;

Q. Curt. vi. 8. § 25, vi. 9. § 34.)

II. Macedonia in the historic period till the death

of A Uxamh-r.

This kingdom had acquired considerable power

even before the outbreak of the Persian War. and

Grecian refinement and civilisation must have gaitM.il

considerable ground, when Alexander the Pi.illiehVu*

offered himself as a combatant at the Olympic garnet

(Herod, v. 22; Justin, vii. 12), and honoured th»

poetry of Pindar (Solin. ix. 16). After that wax

Alexander and his son Perdiccas appear gradually

to have extended their dominions, in consequence of

the fall of the Persian power in Thrace, as far as the

Strymon. Perdiccas from being the ally of Atheua

became her active enemy, and it was from hit in-

trigues that all the difficulties of Alliens on the

Thracian coast arose. The faithless Perdiccas, waa

succeeded by his son Arehelaus, who first established

fortre ses and roads in his dominions, and formed a

Macedonian army (Thuc. ii. 100), and even intended

to procure a navy (Solin. ix. 17), and had tragedies

ot Euripides acted at his court under the direction

of that poet (Ael. V.ll. ii. 21, xiil. 4), while bi*

palace w-as adorned with paintings by Zeuxi* (Arl.

V. II. xir. 17). In B.C. 399, Arehelaus pertohed

by a violent death (Died. xiv. 37; Ariel. Pot T. 8,

10—-13; Plat. Akibuid. ii. p. 141, D). A list U

kings follows of whom we know little but the name*.

Orestes, son of Arehelaus, a child, was placed ap^a

the throne, under the guardianship of Ai-a-pus. 'I !»»•

latter, however, after about four years. made mj

with his ward, and reigned in hit stead fur two

years; he then died of sickneaa, and was succeeded

by his sua Pausanias, who, after a reign of only one

year, was assassinated and succeeded by Amyntas.

(l)iod. xiv. 84—89.) The power of Macedonia m

declined with these frequent detbronemenU and at-

sassinationa of its kings, that Amyntas had to cede

to Olynthut all the country about the Thermaic

gulf. (Diod. xiv. 92, xv. 19.) Amyntas, who was

dependant on, if not tributary to, Jason, the " lagus"

of Thcssaly, died nearly about the tame time as that

prince (Diod. xv. 60), and was succeeded by hu

youthful son Alexander. After a short reign of two

years, u. c. 368, Alexander i»rished by avsassinsti- n.

the fate that so frequently befell the Macedonian

kings. Eurydice, the widow of Amyntas, was hrtt

with her two younger children, Perdiccas, now ■

young man, and Philip, yet a yonth; IlvWruaeu* of

