232 MAGNATA. MAGNOPOLIS.

that the Tarentine colony of Heraclea was selected

in the first instance for the place of assembly, as the

Tarcntincs seem at first to hare kept aloof from the

contest, and it is very doubtful whether they were

included in the league at all. But it was natural

that, when the Tarcntines assumed the leading posi­

tion among the allied cities, the councils should

be transferred to their colony of Heracles, just as

Alexander of Epirus afterwards sought to transfer

them from thence to the river Acalandrus in tho

Thurian territory, as a mark of enmity towards the

Tarentines. (Strab. I.e.) [E. H. B.]

MAGNATA. [Nagnatak.]

MAGNE'SIA, MAGXE'TES. [Thessalia.]

MAGNE'SIA (Maynjir/o: Eth. MdVnr.) I.

A city in Ionia, generally with the addition irpoi

or «V1 MaudfSptp (ud Maeandrum), to distinguish

it from tho Lydian Magnesia, was a considerable

city, situated on the slope of mount Thorax, on

the hanks of the small river Lethacus, a tributary

of the Maeander. Its distance from Miletus was

120 stadia or 15 miles. (Strab. xiv. pp. 636, 647;

Hin. v. 31.) It was an Aeolian city, said to have

been founded by Magnesians from Europe, in the

east of Thessaly, who were joined by 6ome Cretans.

It soon attained great power and prosperity, so as to

be able to cope even with Ephesus (Callinus, ap.

Strab. xiv. p. 647.) At a later time, however, the

city was taken and destroyed by the Cimmerians;

perhaps about B. c. 726. In the year following the

deserted site was occupied, and the place rebuilt by

the Milesians,or, according to Athcnaeus (xii. p. 525),

by the Ephesiaas. Themistocles during his exile

took up his residence at Magnesia, tho town having

been assigned to him by Artaxerxes to supply him

with bread. (Nepos, Themiit. 10; Died. xi. 57.)

The Persian satraps of Lydi* also occasionally re-

aided in the place. (Herod, i. 161, iii. 122.) The

territory of Magnesia was extremely fertile, and pro­

duced excellent wine, figs, and cucumbers (Athcn. i.

p. 29, ii. p. 59, iii. p. 78.) Tho town contained a

temple of Dindymene, the mother of the gods; and

the wife of Themistocles, or, according to others, his

daughter, was priestess of that divinity; but, says

Strabo (p. 647), the temple no longer exists, the

town having been transferred to another place. The

new town which the geographer saw, was most re­

markable for its temple of Artemis Leucophryene,

which in size anil in the number of its treasures

was indeed surpassed by the temple of Ephesus, but in

beauty and the harmony of its parts was superior to all

tho temples in Asia Minor. The change in the site

of the town alluded to by Strabo, is not noticed by

any other author. The temple, as we learn from

Vitruviua (vii. Praefnt.), was built by the architect

Hermogenes, in the Ionic style. In the time of the

Komans, Magnesia was added to tho kingdom of

I'ergamus, after Antiochus had been driven eastward

beyond Mount Taurus. (Liv. xxxvii. 45, xxxviii.

13.) After this time the town seems to have decayed,

and is rarely mentioned, though it is still noticed

by I'liny (v. 31) and Tacitus {Ann. iv. 55).

Hierocles (p. 659) ranks it among the bishoprics of

Asia, and later documents seem to imply that at one

time it bore the name of Maeandropolis. (Coniil.

Constantin. iii. p. 666.) The existence of the town

in the time of the emperors Aurelius and Gallienus

is attested by coins.

Formerly the site of Magnesia was identified with

the modern Gtuel-hiuar; but it is now generally

aduiitted, tliat Jntk-bazar, where ruins of the temple

of Artemis Leucophryene still exist, is the site of

the ancient Magnesia. (!.eake. Alia Minor, pp. 242,

foil.; Arumh'll, &rrn C iitrchtj, pp. 58, full.; Cramer,

Alia Minor, vol. i. pp. 459, foil.)

COIN OF MAGNESIA AD MAEANDRfJf.

2. A town of Lydia, usually with the addition

wpot or inrb 3.i*i\<? (ad Sipylum), to distinguish

it from Magnesia on the Maeander in Ionia, situated

on the north-western slope of Mount Sipylus, on the

southern bank of the river Hermus. VVe are doc

informed when or by whom the town was founded,

but it may have been a settlement of the Magnesia:j

in the east of Thessaly. Magnesia is mint celebrated

in history for the victory gained under its wall*

by the two Scipios in n. c. 190, over Antiochus

the Great, whereby the king was for ever driven

from Western Asia. (Strab. xiii. p. 622; Plin. ii.

93; Ptol. v. 2. I 16, viii. 17. § 16; Scylax, p. 37;

Liv. xxxvii. 37, foil.; Tac. Ann. ii. 47.) The town,

after the victory of the Scipios, surrendered to the

Romans. (Appian, Syr. 35.) During the war against

Mithridates the Magnesians defended themselves

bravely against the king. (Paus. i. 20. § .1) la

the reign of Tiberius, the town was nearly destroyed

by an earthquake, in which several other Asiatic

cities perished; and the emperor on that occasion

granted liberal sums from the treasury to repair the

loss sustained by the inhabitants (Strab. xii. p. 579;

xiii. p. 622; Tac. /. c.) From coins and other source*,

we learn that Magnesia continued to flourish down

to the fifth century (Uierocl. p. 660); and it is often

mentioned by the Byzantine writers. During the

Turkish rule, it once was the residence of the Sultan;

but at present it is much reduced, though it preserves

its ancient name in the corrupt form of .1/wiuao.

The ruins of ancient buildings are not very conai-

dcrable. (Chandler, Tramli in Alia, ii. p. MS;

Kcppcl, TravtU, ii. p. 295.) The accompanying

coin is remarkable by having on its obverse the bead

of Cicero, though the reason why it appears bent, ta

unknown. The legend, which is incorrectly figured,

should be, MAPK02 TTAAIOS KIKEPflN. [L.S.]

COIN OP MAGNESIA AD Ml'tl.l V.

MAGNOTOLIS (M<ryroVoAu). a town in Pantos,

at the confluence of the rivers I.yrus and Iris, wma

founded by Mithridates Eupator, who railed it

Eupatoria; but it was completed by Puenpev the

Great, wbo changed its name intoMagnopolia (Strab.

xii. p. 556). The town seems to ban fallen rite

