•8U4 MEDIOLANUM. MEDIOLANUM.

and tlius at once raised it to the dignity of tho

capital of Northern Italy. From this period tho

emperors of the West made it their habitual abode

(Eutrop. iz. 27 ; Zosim. ii. 10, 17, &c), until the

increasing fear of the barbarians induced Honorius,

in A. u. 404. to take refuge in the inaccessible

marshes of Ravenna. Maxitnian is said to hare

adorned the city with many splendid public buildings

(Vict. Caet. 39); and it was doubtless at this period

that it rose to the splendour and magnificence

which, about the middle of the fourth century,

excited the admiration of the poet Ausonius, who

assigns it the sixth place among the cities of the

empire. The houses are described by him as nu­

merous and elegantly built, corresponding to the

cultivated manners and cheerful character of the in­

habitants. It was surrounded with a double range

of walls, enclosing an ample space for the buildings

of tho city. Among these were conspicuous a circus,

a theatre, many temples, the palace or residence of

the emperor, a mint ; and baths, which bore the

name of Herculean, in honour of their founder Maxi-

mianus, and were so important as to give name to a

whole quarter of the city. The numerous porticoes

which were attached to these and other public

buildings were adorned with marble statues ; and

the whole aspect of the city, if we may believe the

p>et, did not suffer by comparison with Home.

(Auson. Clar. Urb. 5.)

The transference of the imperial court and resi­

dence to Ravenna must have given a considerable

shock to the prosperity of Mediolanum, though it

continued to be still regarded as the capital of Li-

guria (as Gallia Transpadana was now called), and

was the residence of the Consularis or Vicarius

Italiae, to whose jurisdiction the whole of Northern

Italy was subject. (Libell. Proline, p. 62; Bocking,

ail Not Dign. ii. p. 442.) But a much more severe

blow was inflicted on the city in A. i>. 452, when it

was taken and plundered by Attila, who after the

fall of Aquileia carried his arms, almost without oppo­

sition, through the whole region N. of the Po.

(Jomand. Get. 42; Hist. MiscelL xv. p. 549.)

Notwithstanding this disaster, Mediolanum seems

to have retained much of its former importance. It

was still regarded as the metropolis of Northern

Italy, and after the fall of the Western Empire, in

A. I>. 476, became the royal residence of the Gothic

kings Odoacer and The-jdoric. Procopius indeed

speaks of it in the sixth century as surpassing all the

other cities of the West in size and population, and

inferior to Rome alone. (Procop. B. G. ii. 8.) It

was recovered with little difficulty by Belisarius,

but immediately besieged by the Goths under Uraia,

the brother of Vitiges, who, after a lung Hiege, made

himself again master of the city (a. d. 5.'tlJ), which

he is said to have utterly destroyed, putting all the

male inhabitants, to the number of .'100,000, to the

sword, and reducing the women to slavery. (Id. ib.

21.) It is evident, however, that the expressions of

Procopius on this occasion mast be greatly exag­

gerated, for, at the time of the invasion of the Lom­

bards under Alboin (a. r>. 568), Mediolanum already

reappears in little less than its former importance.

It was still the acknowledged capital of Liguria

(P. Diac. Hut. Ixing. ii. 15, 25), and, as the me­

tropolitan see, appears to have retained this dignity

under the Lombard kin;s, though those monarchs

transferred their royal residence to Ticinum or Var'ui.

In the middle ages it rapidly rose again to pros­

perity; and, though a second time destroyed by the

emperor Frederic Barbarossa in 1162, quickly re­

covered, and has continued down to the present day

to be one of the moat important and flourishing

cities of Italy.

The position of Milan, almost in the centre of

the great plain of Northern Italy, just about midway

between the Alps and the Padus, appear! to bare

marked it in all ages as the natural capital of that

extensive and fertile region. Its ready communi­

cations with the Ticinus on the one side, and tb#

Addua on the other, in great measure supply tbt

want which would otherwise have arisen from iu

not being situated on a navigable river; and tb*

fertile plain between these two rivers is watered by

the minor but still considerable streams of the

Lambro and Olona, The latter, which is not no­

ticed by any ancient writer, flows under the walls i/

Milan. The modem city contains few vestiges of

its ancient splendour. Of all the public builjit c*

which excited the admiration of Ausonius (y*

above), the only remains are the columns of a por­

tico, 16 in number, and of the Corinthian uni*r,

now attached to the church of 5. Lorenzo, and >up-

posed, with some probability, to have been originally

connected with the Thermae or baths erected by tlai

emperor Maxitnian. A single antique column, now

standing in front of the ancient basilica of Sant'

Ambrogio, has been removed from some other aha,

and docs not indicate the existence of an ancient

building on the spot. Numerous inscriptions have,

however, been discovered, and are still preserved in

the museum at MtUin. These fully confirm the

municipal importance of Mediolanum under the early

Roman Empire; while from one of them we learn

the fact that the city, notwithstanding its flourish­

ing condition, received a colony under Hadrian, and

assumed, in honour of that emperor, the titles if

Colonia Aelia Augusta. (Orell. Inter. 1703, 1909,

3942, 4000, 4060, See.; Zumpt, de Colon, p. 409.)

Mediolanum was the central point from which

all the highroads of Italy N. of the Padus may he

considered as radiating. The first and prii,<-i[al

of these was that which led by Laus Pumj^ia to

Placentia, where it joined the Via Aemilia. *i:d thus

became the direct line of route from Milan to Ra­

venna and Rome. Another main line was that by

Novaria and Vercellae to Eporedia and Augusta

Practoria, which must have been the principal

line of communication between Milan and Trans­

alpine Gaul. A third road led in a southerly direc­

tion to Ticinum (7'arii). from which there were

two lines; the one proceeding by Laumellutn to

Augusta Taurinorum, and thence orer the Cottiaa

Alps into the southern provinces of Oau!; the other

crossing the Padus to Dertona, and thence arr>*s

the Apennines to Genoa A fourth line was tljt

to Comum, from whence there was a much fre­

quented pass by the Lacus Lariux, and arrusa the

Khaetian Alps into the valley of the Am, tl.ns mjce-

iug a direct and speedy communication with the

Ihinube. Lastly, a great line of highway led from

Milan to Aquileia, passing through Brrgomum.

Brixia, Verona, Vicentia. Patavium, Altinum, and

Concordia. The details of all these routes are gvrca

in the Antonine Itinerary and the Tabids I'ratia-

geriana. [K.H. B.]

MEMOLA'Nl'M (/fin. -Int.; M»».o\«Vio». ptet

ii. 3. §18), s town of the Onlovices in Britain.

It occurs in the Jtm. Ant., between Derm (LCk*9~

Ur), and Uriconium (H'runr/fr), two (uxn, the

sites of which are well authenticated; acd is the

