1058 STRACUSAE. SYRACISAE.

its power The circumstances of the great siege of

Syracuse by the Athenians must here he related in

some detail, on account of their important bearing

on all questions connected with the topography of

the city, and the interest they confer on its loca­

lities. At the same time it will obviously be impos­

sible to do more than give a very brief sketch of that

memorable contest, for the details of which the

reader must refer to the narrative of Thucydides,

with the copious illustrations of Arnold, Grote, and

Col. Leake.

It was not till the Spring of B. c. 414 that the

siege of Syracuse was regularly commenced. But

in the autumn of 415, the Athenians had already

made a demonstration against the city, and sailing

into the Great Harbour, effected a landing without

opposition near the Oljmpieom, where they esta­

blished their camp on the shore, and erected a tem­

porary fori at a place called Deacon (Thuc. vi. 66;

Diod. xii. 6), apparently on the inner bight of the

harbour, between the mouth of the Anapus and the

bay now called the Bay of Mashlalena. But though

successful in the battle that ensued, Nicias did not

attempt to follow up his advantage, and withdrew to

winter at Catana. The next spring the Athenians

landed to the X. of Syracuse, at a place called Leon,

about 6 or 7 stadia from the height! of Epipolae,

while they established their naval station at the ad­

joining peninsula of Thapsus (Magnisi). The land

troops advanced at once to occupy Kpipolae, the mi­

litary importance of which was felt by both parties,

and succeeded in establishing themselves there,

before the Syracusans could dislodge them. They

then proceeded to build a fort at a place called Lab-

daluni, which is described by Thucydides as situated

"on the top of the cliffs of Kpipolae, looking towards

Megara" (Thuc. vi. 97). and having occupied this

with a garrison, bo as to secure their communications

with their fleet, they advanced to a place called

Syce (7; 2i/K7j), where they establi>hed themselves,

and began to construct with great rapidity a line of

circumvallation across the plateau of Epi]*>lae.* The

construction of such a line was the customary mode

of proceeding in Greek sieges, and it was with the

special object of guarding against it that the Syra-

cusans had in the preceding winter extended their

fortificAtioni by running a new line of wall so as to

ciu'!o>e the temple uf Apollo Temcnites (Thuc. vi,

75). which probably extended from thence down to

the Great Harbour. Nevertheless the Athenian

line of circumvallation was carried on so rapidly as

to excite in them the greatest alarm. Its northern

extremity was made to rest on the sea at a point

called Trogilus (probably near the Scala Green),

and it was from thence carried across the table-land

* The account here given of the Athenian ope­  
rations assumes that "the circle'' repeatedly spoken

of by Thucydides (vi.9S,99,&c), is the circuit of the

lines of circumvallation This is the construction

adopted by Gbller, and all earlier editors of Thu­

cydides, as well as by Col. Leake; and appears to

the writer of this article by far the most natural

and intelligible interpretation. Mr. Grote, on the

contrary, as well as Dr. Arnold in his later edition

adopts the suggestion of II. Kirmin Didot that "the

circle" (d kvkKos) was a particular intrenchment

or fortified camp of a circular form. It is difficult

to understand the military object of such a work, as

well as to reconcile it with the subsequent details of

the urge operations.

of the Kpipolae, to the point nearest to the «""*

Harbour. Alarmed at the rapid pfogrea of ua

wall, the Syracusans endeaToarcd to intern;* ;t if

constructing a counter or cross wall (&wt«

or 4yK<lp<Tiov reixor), directed apparently fan At

wall recently erected around the temple d k\'

Tememtes towards the southern cliff of Efii

(Thuc. vi. 99.) This wall was, however,

by the Athenians by a sudden attack ltd

whereupon the Syracusans attempted a

terwork, carried through the marches ttd

ground, so as to prevent the Athenians frees

necting their works on Kpipolae with the

Harbour. But this work was, like the pn

one, taken and destroyed; and the Atbecaa*.

fleet had meanwhile entered the Great Hirbocrj

established itself there, were able to wastrst

strong double line of wall, extending framUn

of Epipolae quite down to the harbour. {Ib. \<

103.) On the table-land above, on the eofl

their works were still incomplete, and eapeewDy

part of the line of circumvaUatinn near Tnriia«*J

still in an unfinished state when Gylippos ha*

Sicily, so that that commander was able U fix

passage through the lines at this point, aai

an entry into Syracuse. (Id. tu. 2.) It bn

able that the hill of Euryaloi, though in

key of the position on the Epipolae. sera* to

been neglected by Kicias, and was still

by any fortifications.

Gylippus immediately directed his e5*ti I

vent the completion of the Athenian Uoa een

table-land, and obtained in the first inrfawa 1

portant advantage by surprising the Arbaii

at Labdalum. He next began to erect azucbfl

wall, running out from the walls of the ore

the plateau, so as to cross and intersect tie

nian lines; and notwithstanding repeated

the part of the Athenians, succeeded ia tw

this on so far as completely to cut cS thar 1

circumvallation, and render it imposr.bk i*

complete it, (Id. vii. 4—6.) Both partis a

have looked on the completion of this swe J

decisive point of the siege; Kicias findwf \

unable to capture the outwork of the Syr*

almost despaired of success, and wrote to Atfc

strong reinforcements. Meanwhile he «■(

strengthen his position on the Great Harbor

cupying and fortifying the headland of

nam, which completely commanded its

(/&. 4.)' The Syracusans* however, stiH

the Olympieum (or lVluhne, aa it wa 1

called) with a strong body of troops, at

under the guidance of Gylippos. aUackol the

nians both by sea and land, though fauai

former attempt, they took the forts whtdi 1

recently erected on the Plenunyrium. (fa.

24.) This was a most important

rendered it henceforth very difficult fcr tie

to supply their fleet and camp with |—w%j

it is evident that it was so regarded by bath

(/&. 25, 31): the Syracosana

gained a decisive success in m

Great Harbour, and were prep&riur to

advantage further, when the arrival of D

and Eurymedon from Athens with a pa

restored for a time the superiority of dm

Demosthenes immediately directed all hi

the capture of the Syracuaan coontara

pttlae; but meanwhile Gylippus bad wot 1

strengthen his position there, by

