656 l'ON POXTIA.

Vindelicia, on tlie raid from Amber to Parthanum.

{It. Ant. j>. 275 ; comp. Mucli&r, Noricum, i. p.

1*84.) [L. &.]

PCNTIA or PCNTIAE (norrio: JVnai), an

island in the Tyrrhenian sea, situated off the coast

of Italy, nearly <j^ite to the Circeian promontory.

It is the moat considerable of a group of three small

islands, now collectively known us the J sole dt

Panza; the ancient names of which were, Pai.ma-

j:ia, now PaUfUtruola, the most westerly of the

three, Pontia in the centre, and Sinonia (Zimriotu)

to the NK (Plin. iii. 6. a. 12; Mel. ii. 7. § 18.)

They are all of volcanic origin, like the Pithecoaae

(Aenaria ami Proclyta), nearer the coast of Catn-

]iania, and the island of Pandataria (now railed

Yandottma), about midway between the. two groups.

Strabo places Pontia about 250 stadia from the

mainland (v. p. 233). which is nearly about the

truth, if reckoned (as he does) from the coast near

Caieta; but the distance from the Ciroeian pro-

montory does not exceed 1G geog. miles or 160 stadia.

^Ve have no account of Pontia previous to tlie

settlement of a Roman colony there in B. C. 313,

except that it had been already inhabited by the

Yolscians. (Liv. ix. 28; Diodor. xix. 101.) The

colonisation of an island at this distance from the

mainland offers a complete anomaly in the Roman

system of settlements, of which we have no explana­

tion; and this is the more remarkable, because it

was not, like most of the maritime colonies, a "colo-

nia maritima civium," but was a Colonia Latiua,

(Liv. xxvii. 10.) Its insular situation preserved it

from the ravages of war, and hence it was one of

the eighteen which during the moat trying period <»l

the Second Punic War displayed its zeal and fidelity

to the Roman senate, when twelve of the Latin

colonies had set a contrary example. (Ibid.) Strabo

speaks of it as in his time a well peopled island

(v. p. 233). Under the Roman Empire it became,

us well as the neighbouring Pandataria, a common

place of confinement for state prisoners. Among

others, it was here that Nero, the eldest son of

< lermanie.us, was put to death by ortlor of Tiberius.

(Suet. Tib. 54, Cat, 15.)

The island of Panza is about 5 miles long, but

very narrow, and indented by irregular bays, so that

in some places it is only a few hundred yards across.

The two minor islands of the group, J'almuntolit and

Zannone, are at the present day uninhabited. Varro

notices Palmariu ami Pontia. as well as Pandataria,

as frequented by great flocks of turtle doves and

quails, which halted there on their animal migra­

tions to and from tlie coast of Italy. (Varr. /■*. A\

iii. 5. § 7.) * [K. II. li.]

PCNTIAE (noV-riai yyffot, Scyl. p. 4G), three

islands off the coast of the Greater Syrtis. Pto­

lemy (iv. 3. § 36 ; comp. Studiasm. 72—75)

calls these Misynus, l'ontia, ami Gaea, They may

be identified with the reefs of 0 Intra. (Becchev,

Expedition to the X. Coast o f A frica, p. 238. App.

p. x,; Smyth, Mediterranean, p. 455.) [K. B. J.]

PONTPNU& [Aroos, p. 201. a.]

PONTUS (n^TOi), a large country in the north­

east of Asia Minor, which derived its name from its

being on the coast of the Pont us Kuxiiius, extending

from the frontiers of Colchis in the east, to the river

Halys in the west. In the earlier times the country

does not appear to have borne any general appella-

tioii, but the varans [cirts were de.-ignated by names

derived from the different tribes by which they were

inhabited. Xenophon {Anab.v. 6. § 15) is the first

ancient author who use;

country. Poctus forme

coast country from the

but in the western par

ther south or inland,

fixed, it bordered in the

the Halys formed the 1

(ialatia, Cappadocia, an

taurus and Mount Pan

and in the east on Colcl

it was separated by tht

embraced the modern |

ijiwas. Although the

lofty mountains, which

into Pont us it.-elf, the [

cially the western pa

(Strab. xii. p. 548), ai

such as cherries, app!

grain, olives, timber, aco

&c; Theophrast. Hist.

16, xix. 17; Plin. xiv 1

in game (Strab. xii. p.

bees are especially mtl

formed important artic

Anai. iv. 8. §§ 16. 20

45; Strab. iii. p. 163.)

country consisted chief!

4. § 1; Strab. xii, p. 5*

Pliny vii. 57) ami sail

Pont us are the Paky^

the So MtDttES, two rani

connect with Mount Cai

two branches. Lithris

which form the caster

Phanaroea. Another n

a promontory 100 stadia

called the Oros Hiemr

Apollou. Rhod. ii. 101J

is a mountain menti

Trapezus. The promoi

tains, if we proceed froi

racletum, lasonium, an

jeeting headlands form

Cotyora. The inounta

snurces of numerous str

Halys, Lycastus, Chai

Thermodon, Beris, Thoa

mis. Cienethes. Melaiitlr

Ophis, Ascnrus, Adiena

Archabis, Ap-arus. Aca

Mogrus, and the Phash

noticed by the ancients

west, north of the river

Pont us was inhabits

of different tribes, who*

either entirely unknown

most important among t

to east, are: the LbOC

BES, MoSYNOECI, IlEl

chirks, Byzkhks, Co

Taochi, and Ph A Iff An

wild and savage to the

of the interior; but on I

tinned to he established

7th century n. c, and l

perity, spreading Ore*

around them.

As to the history of

that it had been coliqiH

the Assyrian empire (L

Cvrus the Givat it cert

