RHODIORTJM REGIO. 713 RHODES.

mi it V/cia, i. pp. 166, 181.) The town had a

torpla of Asrlepius, and its citizens are not called,

u Stephanos Byx. asserts, 'Points, but 'PoJiairo-

Airai or 'PoJieroAjrai, whence it appears that Pliny

(«. 2$) correctly calls the town Rhodiopolis. A

pirn of the numerous remains of this town is

mn by Spratt, according to whom it was not

• irrwdad by walls: the theatre stands nearly in

t*# centre, and is small, having a diameter of only

Ite feet; bat many of the seats remain, and the

L**ment of the proscenium is perfect. In the front

a* ri si a terrace, with scats along the parapet.

E>?uics of charehes show that the place was

uiised in Christian times. There are also traces

i u aqueduct. The town being situated on a

■ r.r eminence, commands an extensive annthern

■oapeet, [L. S.] .

RHODKXRUM REGIO. [Pbraea.]

RHODIL'S ('Pooiot), a river of Troas, having its

i-jrr» in Mount Ida, a little above the town of

brrra; it flows in a north-western direction, and after

aranr, by Astyra and Cremaste, discharges itself

at lie Hellespont between Dardanos and Abydus.

H,-n. IL xii. 20, xx. 215: Hesiod, Theog. 341;

baa. an. p. 554, xiii. pp. 595, 603; Phn. v. 33.)

witm (xiii. p. 595) states that some regarded the

Banal as a tributary of the Aeaepns; but they

rut bave been mistaken, as the river is mentioned

a tb» ecus of Dardanus. (Sestini, Geoff. NumU.

i » ) Pliny ({. c.) states that this ancient river

f Wert existed; and some modem writers identify

: with the Pydina mentioned by Thucydides (viii.

H; eamc. Hesych. and Phsvorin. t. v. Tli/oW).

fcatar ( Wallfahrten, p. 457) describes its present

a4.E*zi as that of a brook flowing into the Dar-

mrUrt br many mouths and marshes. [I.. S.]

KfcK/DOPE ('P<Mm, Herod, vi. 49; Thuc. ii.96;

•VV xxxrr. 19; Strab. iv. p. 208, vii. pp. 313,

ft. HI; Mela, ii. 2. § 2: Plin. iii. 29, iv. 5.s. 17;

>an. Marc. xxi. 10. § 3; Malchus, ap. Exe. de Leg.

am. p. 90). a mountain chain forming the W. con-

caean of Haemus, and the frontier between Thrace

ac Macedonia, of which little more is known than

s asm*. On it* desolate heights, the lurking

are <sf the fierce Satrae, was the great sanctuary

u nclr of the Thracian Dionysus. As the Stry-

■ tauk its sBSutw in Rhodope (Strab. viii. p. 331)

> irfa ridges round Dupnilsa and GhiuttatdU

ml br assigned to Rhodope, which may roughly be

■ to brtont: to the central of the three continuous

baa, wkkh under the name of the Detpoto Dagh

wrbe* oat to the S. of the Balkan (Haemus) at

m M= E. long. [E. B. J.]

RHOUCNTIA OPeoWrlo: Elk. ToJoiWioj), a

Ewas on Ml. Callidromua, defending one of the

aaa to Thermopylae. (Strab. ix. p. 428; Liv.

fi IC 19; Steph. B. s. c; Leake, Northern

an, Tai. ii. pp. 10, 62, 64.)

kHODUS ('P4»»»: Eli. 'Vitus: Rhode*), one of

'rt «f iaiands of the Aegean, or more properly

tiit part of the Aegean which is called the

vuhian us, about 9 or 10 miles from the coast

Carta. In the earliest times it is said to hsve

* the names of Ophiussa (Steph. B.». r. 'PiiJos),  
■as. Tckninis (Strab. xvi. p. 653), Asteria,

aaraaa, Truaacria, Corymbia, Poteesaa, Atabyria,

■arsa, and Otoiwa. (Plin. v. 36.) It extends

■ malk to north, and is 920 stadia in circum-

mm (Strab. sir. p. 605), or, according to Pliny,

; &man miles, though others reduced it to 103.

is traversed from north to south by a

chain of mountains, the highest point of which was

called Atabyris or Atabyrion, and the towns wero

all situated on the coast. Mount Atabyris is 4560

feet above the level of the sea, and on the top of it

stood a temple of Zeus Atabyrius. Rhodes was

believed to have at one time risen out of the sea,

and the Telchincs, its most ancient inhabitants, are

said to bave immigrated from Crete. (Pind. Olymp.

vii. 23, lux.; Plin. ii. 87; Aristid. Oral, xliii. p.

653, ed. Dind.; Strab. It; Diod. v. 55.) The

Telchines, about whom many fabulous stories are

related, are said to hare been nine in number,

and their sister Halia or Amphitrite became by

Poseidon the mother of six sons and one daughter,

Rhodoe, from which in the end the island received

the name it still bears. Others, however, with

better reason, derive the name Rhodns from jiStov, a

rose, for the rose appears as a symbol on coins of the

island, so that Rhodus would be "the island of

Roses." (Eckhel, vol. ii. p. 602; Sestini, Num.

Vet. p. 382.) These most ancient and fabu­

lous Telchines are said to hare perished or been

driven from the island during an inundation, and

Helios then created a new race of inhabitants, who

were called after him Heliadae; they were seven in

number, and became ancestors of seven tribes, which

partly peopled Rhodns itself and partly emigrated

to Lesbos, Cos, Caria, and Egypt The Heliadae

are said to have greatly distinguished themselves by

the progress they made in the sciences of astronomy

and navigation. (Pind. I. c. 160, &c; Diod. v. 56:

Conon, Narrat. 47; Strab. xiv. p. 654.) After this

various immigrations from foreign countries are

mentioned: Egyptians nnder Danaus, Phoenicians

under Cadmus, Thessalians and (.'avians, are each

said to have furnished their contingent to the popu­

lation of Rhodes. Whatever we may think of these

alleged immigrations, they can have but little af­

fected the national character of the Rhodians, which

in fact did not become fixed until a branch of the

Doric race took possession of the island, after which

event the Doric character of its inhabitants becamo

thoroughly established. Some Dorians or Heracleidae ,

appear to have been settled there as early as the

Trojan War, for the Heracleid Tlrpolemus is de­

scribed as having sailed to Troy with nine ships.

(//. ii. 653; Diod. iv. 58, v. 59; Apollod. ii. 8. § 2.)

After the Trojan War Aethaemenes, a Heracleid

from Argns, led other settlers to Rhodus. (Strab.

xiv. p 653; Diod. xv. 59; Apollod. iii. 2. § 1;

comp. Thuc. vii. 57; Aristid. Oral. xliv. p. 839.)

After this time the Rhodians quietly developed the

resources of their island, and rose to great prosperity

and affluence.

The three most ancient towns of the island were

LlNDi'S, Ialysis, and Camiri'S, which were be­

lieved to have been founded by three grandsons

of the Heliad Ochimus bearing the same names,

or, according to others, by the Heracleid Tlrpo­

lemus. (Diod. iv. 58, v. 57.) These three towns,

together with Cos.Cnidus, and Haticarnassux, formed

what was called the Doric hexapolis, which had

its common sanctuary on the Triopian headland

on the coast of Caria, Apollo being the tutelary

deity of the confederation. (Herod, i. 144.) Tho

rapid progress made by the Khndian towns at

a comparatively early period is sufficiently attested

by their colonies in the distant countries of the

west. Thus they founded settlements in the Balearic

islands, Rhode on the coast of Spain, Parthenope,

Salapia, Siris, and Sybaris in Italy, and Gcla in

