372 MOSCHA PORTUS. MOHIMARUSA.

topographers, and three or four localities have been

proposed. Of these, Seaton and J/embmy, near

Iloniton, appear to have the best claims for consi­

deration ; bat as the stations next to large towns

were often merely establishments for relays of horses

and other purposes connected with posting, they

were the least likely to be constructed on a large or

substantial scale; and thus we hare often great diffi­

culty in detecting even a vestige of them. [C. R. S.]

MORIMARUSA. [Oteam-sSkitkntkiosalis.]

MORI'MKNE (Mooi/mi^), a district in the north­

west of Cappadoria, comprising both banks of the

river Halys, is said to have been fit only for pasture

land, to have had scarcely any fruit-trees, and to

have abounded in wild asses. (Strab. xii. pp. 534,

537, 539, 540; I'lin. If. N. vi. 3.) The Romans

regarded it as a part of Galatia, whence Ptolemy

(v. 6) does not mention it among the districts of

Cappadocia. [L. S.]

MO'RINI, a nation of Belgica. Virgil is the au­

thority for the quantity: —

"Extremiqne hominum Morini." (Aen. viii. 727.)

It has been shown in the article Mknami that

on the north ttie Morini were bounded by the Menapii.

On the west the ocean was the boundary, and on

the south the Ambiani and the Atrebates. The

eastern boundary cannot be so easily determined.

The element of Morini seems to be the word mor,

the sea, which is a common Flemish word still, and

also found in the Latin, the German, and the

English languages.

Caesar, who generally speaks of the Morini with

the Menapii, has fixed their position in general terms.

When he first invaded Britannia ho went into the

country of the Morini. because the passage from

there to Britain was the shortest (//. G. iv. 21). In

the next expedition, n. o. 54, he sailed from Portus

Itius, having ascertained that the passage from this

port to Britain was the most commodious. Portus

Itius is in the country of the Morini [iTirs Portus].

Ptolemy (ii. 9. § 8) mentions two cities of the

Morini, Gesoriacum or Bononia (Boulogne), and

Tarucnna (Therovemie), east of it, in the interior.

If we add Casteilum Morinorum (Cajuet), in the

interior, south of hunkerque, "we see that, besides

the diocese of Boulogne, the territory of the Morini

comprises the new dioceses of St. Outer and Yjiern,

which succeeded to that of Tournai." (D'Amillc.)

But if CaMtl is not within the limits of the Morini,

their territory will not lie so extensive as D'Anvillc

makes it. [Mesai'U.]

Caesars wars with the Morini were more suc­

cessful than with the Menapii. A large |«rt of the

territory of the Morini did nut offer such natural

obstacles as the land of the Menapii. The marshes

of the Morini would be between Calm and Dun-

kerque. The force which the Morini were supposed

to be able to send to the Belcic confederation in

B. c. 57 was estimated at 2-VKH) men. Though

most of the Morini were snbdued by Cae-ar, they

rose again in the time of Augustus, and were put

down ty C. Carinas (Dion Cassius, Ii. 21). Wbcn

Bononia was made a Itoman port, and Taruenna a

Komati town, the country of the Morini would t>ecome

Humanised, nnd Roman usages and the itoman lan­

guage would prevail. There were Roman roads

which terminated at Bononia and Castollum.

An inscription mentions the Decemviri of the

Colonia Morinorum, but it is unknown what place

it ia, [G. L.J

MO'RIUS. [Boeotia, Vol. I. p. 418. V]

MORON (Miour), a town of Lusitania upon tb*

Tagus, which Brutus CallaTcns made his h--ad-

qnarters in his campaign against the Lnsitaniam.

(Strah. iii. p. 152.) Its exact site is unknown.

MORONTABARA (to MopoKrdeopa, Arrism,

Indie, c 22), a place on the coast of Gedrosia, a: no

great distance W. of the mouths of the Indus, n«iiK"Td

by Arrian in his account of Nearchus's expeditasB

with the fleet of Alexander the Great. It d<>e» r>*

appear to have been satisfactorily identified wrik

any modern place. [V.]

MOROSGI, a town of the Varduli in HL.jrti.ia

Tarraconensis, identified by Ckert with St. Srttvtum.

which, however, more probably representa Menoacs.

(Plin. iv. 20. s. 34; Ukert, ii. 1. p. 446; Fortiger,

iii. p. 80.)

MORTUUM MARE. [Pai-aestisa.]

MORTUUM MARE. [SK.rTt.vrai..jCAiJ«

Oc'KANl'S.]

MORYLLUS. [MTODoinA.]

MOSA in Gallia is placed by the Antonine Itin.

between Andomatunnm (Ijangrts) and Tullum

(Tovl). It is 18 M. P. from Andomatuimin to

Mosa, which is supposed to be Mruee, situated at a

passage over the Mam, and in the line of an old

Roman road. [G. L]

MOSA {Mam), a river of Gallia, which Caesar

supposed to rise in the Vosegns ( Yoigea) within the

limits of the Lingones. (B. G. iv. la) This

passage of Caesar, in which he speaks of the Moaa

in the lower part of its course receiving a part of the

Rhine, called Vahah's ( Waal), is very obscure. Thia

matter is discussed in the article Batati. DioB

Cassius writes the word in the form Miaat (xlir.

42); and Ptolemy (ii. 9. § 3) has the form Mi»<ra

in the genitive.

Caesar (/?. G. vi. 33) says that the Scalds

(Schrldr) flows into the Mosa; a mistake that might

easily be made with such knowledge of the coast of

Belgium and Holland as he possessed. The or It

branch of the Mosa which Caesar mentions i» tie

I Sabis (Sombre), which joins the Moot on the srA

bank at Chnrleroi in Belgium.

The Moan, called Metue by the French, rises

| about 48° N. lat. in the Faucittei, which unite the

I Cote dOr and the Votget. The general cursr <A

I the Moos is north, but it makes several great bends

before it reaches Liege in Belgium, from which iu

I course is north as far as Grave, where it turtle to the

! west, and for 80 miles flows nearly parallel to tbe

I WaaL The Mao* joins the Waal at (fovrwsa, and,

retaining its name, flows past Hotteniim int > tho

North Sea. The whole length of the Ifaat is shore

500 miles. [G. U]

MOSAEUS (MaVajoj, Ptol. vi. 3. § «). a ciaD

stream, placed by Ptolemy between the Kolaeos and

the Tigris. It is probably the same as thai called

by Marcian (p. 17) the MtcyaTet. It «i>, no doot*,

one of the streams which together form tbe months

of the Tigris, and may not impossibly be Die same

which Pliny names the Ad una (vi. 27,31), and

which he appears to have considered aa a feeder of

the Kulaeus. [V.]

MOSCHA PORTUS (Mo>xa Ararftr). 1. A

harbour on the S. coast of Arabia, near the extm-e

east of the AimAMiTAE, or more proprriy of Lb*

Aacitae, since the next named place is " Syagros rx-

trema" (2uaypos &*pa). and tlie ^Aacitae extended

from Syagros mons to the sea. (PtoL vi. 7. p li.\.

c»mp. p. 154). Mr. Foratcr thinks there is no d.nV­

