.1-2 MEVANTA. METROPOLIS.

Lydia, on the road from Smyrna to Ephesus, at a

distance of 120 stadia from Kphesus, and 180 from

Smyrna. The district of Metropolis produced ex­

cellent wine. (Strab. xiv. pp. 632, 637; l'tol. v. 2.

§ 17; Steph. B. t. r.; Plin. v. 31; Hierocl. p. 600.)

Near the modem Tillage of Tourbuli, no doubt a

corruption of the ancient name Metropolis, some

ruins are still seen; and as their distance from

Smyrna and Ephesus agrees with that mentioned

by Strabo, there can be no hesitation in identifying

the place. (Comp. Arandell, Secen Churcha, p. 22,

&c; Hamilton, Research*, i. p. 542; Uasche,

Lexic. Num. iii. 1, p. 633, &c.)

2. A town in the north of Phrygia, and, as the

name seems to indicate, the capital of the ancient

kings of Phrygia, though Stephanus Byz. (s. p.)

derives the name from the mother of the gods. It

was sitnated to the north of Synnada (Athen. xiii.

p. 574.), and must not be confounded with another

town of the same name in the south of Phrygia.

Ita site is, in all probability, indicated by the ruins

of ISsmeth Kalasi, north of Doganlu, which show

a very antique stylo of architecture, and mainly

consist of tombs cut into the rocks; one of these

tombs is that of king Midas. Leake (Atia Minor,

p. 24) is inclined to think that these ruins mark

the site of Nicoleia; but other travellers, appa­

rently with more justice, identify them with Metro­

polis. (Franz, Funf Inschriflen, p. 42.) From

the extent of the ruins, it would seem that in the

time of the Roman emperors Metropolis was an im­

portant town ; but afterwards it declined, though it

is still mentioned by Hierocles (p. 677.)

3. A town in the southern part of Phrygia, be­

longing to the conventus of Apamca. (Plin. v. 29.)

That this town is different from No. 2, is quite evi­

dent, even independently of the fact that Stephanus

B. mentions two towns of the name of Metropolis in

Phrygia, and that Hierocles and the Notitiae sj>eak

of a town of this name in two different provinces of

Phrygia. (Hierocl. p. 673; Strab. xii. p. 576, xiv. p.

603; Liv. xxxviii. 15.) [L. S.]

METKO'POLIS (MnraeVoXir, Ptol. iii. 5. § 28),

a town of European Sannatia, on the Borrsthcnea,

nearOlbia. [E.B. J.]

METKO'POLIS (MtitooVoXij: Eth. Kirrpo-ro.

AiTjjt). I. A town of Histiaeotis in Thessalv, de­

scribed by Stephanus B. (*. v.) as a town in Upper

Thessalv. Strabo says (ix. p. 438), that Metropolis

was founded by three insignificant towns, but that a

larger number was afterwards added, among which

was Ithome. He further says, that Ithome was

within a quadrangle, formed by the four cities Tricca,

Meirojiolis, IVliunaeum, and (lomphi. The position

of Metropolis is also determined by its being on

Caesar's march from Gomphi to Pharsalns. (Caes.

B C. hi. 81; Appian, B. C. ii. 64; Dion Cass,

xli. 51.) It was taken by Klamininus on his de­

scending into this part of Thes^aly, after the battle

of the Aous, B.C. 198. (Liv. xxxii. 15.) We

learn from an inscription that the territory of Me­

tropolis adjoined that of C-ierium (the ancient Arne),

and that the adjustment of their boundaries was a

frequent subject of discussion between the two

peoples. [ClKRU'M.] Metropolis is mentioned in

the sixth century by Hierocles (p. 642), and con-

tinned to exist in the middle ages under the name

of Neo-Patrae (New Uirpai, Constant. >/r Them.

ii. p. 50, ed. Bonn). The remains if Mt-trojxilis are

placed by Leake at the small village of J'aleokatlro,

about 5 miles S\V. of KardliiUa. The city was of

a circular form, and in the centre of th* cards are

the vestiges of a circular citadel, part of the wall sf

which still exists in the yard of the village chorea

of Paledktutro, where is a collection of the sruh>.

tured or inscribed remains found upon the •,.<

within late years. Among other sculptures Leaks

noticed one in low relief, representing a figure tested

upon a rock, in long drapery, and a mountain r*acc

in face of the figure, at the foot of which there is a

man in a posture of adoration, while on the lop rf

the mountain there are other men, one of wbora

holds a hog in his hands. Leake conjectured with

great probability that the seated figure rrprcseali

the Aphrodite of Metropolis, to whom Strahn sayi

(L c.) that hogs were offered in sacrifice. (Leak/,

Northern Greece, vol. iv. p. 506.)

2. Another town in Thessalv, which Stephanos

B. calls simply a town in Thessalv. This appears

to be the Metropolis mentioned by Livy in his ac­

count of the campaign of Antiochus, in B. c 191,

where it is related that the Syrian king hating

landed at Dcmetrias, first took Pherae, then Crannoo,

then Cypaera, Metropolis, and all the neighboorirg

fortresses, except Atrax and Gyrton, and afterward,

proceeded to Larissa. (Liv. xxxvi. 10.) r'nau

this account it would appear that this Mrtroj.jjj

was in Perrhaebia; and its site has been discovered

by Leake, near thai of Atrax, at a place called

Kastri, where the name of MirrpowoArrnt occurs m

an inscription. (Leake, Noriiiern Greece, voL iii

p. 371.)

3. (F.ygoritzi), a town in the interior cf Arar-

nania, S. of Stratus, and on the road from the latter

place to Conope in Aetolia. At a later time it fefl

into the hands of the Aetolians. but was taken and

burned by Philip in his expedition against the

Aetolians, B. c. 219. It is mentioned as one of the

towns of Acamania, in a Greek inscription found at

Actium, the date of which is probably pri'ir to the

time of Augustus. (Polyb. iv. 64; Steph. B, *.».;

Bijckh, Corpus Imcript. Xo. 1793; Leake, Norlkerm

Greece, vol. iii. p. 576.)

4. A town in Amphilochia, near Olpae. (Thoe.

iii. 107.) As to its site, see Asooa Anmux>-

cmri'M.

5. A town of Doris. (Steph. B. i. r.)

6. A town of Euboea. (Steph. B. I r.)

MKTULUM. [Uroi.KS, Vol. II. p. 36-]

MEVA'NIA (Mnoiwfa. Strab., Ptol: Etk. Me~

vanas, atis: Beragna), a considerable city of Umbras,

on the Flaminian Way, between Carsukse and FsaV

ginium. It was situated on the river Tmia, ia a

broad and fertile valley, which extends from the

neighbourhood of Spoletium to the Tiber, separatiri*

tho main chain of the Apennines from a later*] ma*

or offshoot of the same range, which extend, fraea

Mrvania and Spoletium to Tuder ami Anuria. It

is this valley, about 8 or 10 miles in breadth, watered

by the Clitumnus and Tinia, with several tributary

streams, the pastures of which were celebrated f*r

their breed of white oxen, the only ones thcorM

worthy to be sacrificed as Tictims on triumphal aad

other solemn occasions. Hence their praises are rrc

less frequently associated with the name r/ Mrvaxra

than with that of tba Clitumnus. (Colum. tia. 8;

Sil. Ital. ri. 647, viii. 458; Locan, i. 473.) aV-

vania appears to have been an imporlant place Vr«*»

the Roman conquest of this foirt of Italy. Ib ft. c

308 it was chosen by the Uinbrian* as the b*ml-

qnarters of their assembled forces, when they w«v«

defeated by Q. Fabius. (Liv. ix. 41.) At a i

