31S B1F.GARA. MEGARA.

tical form of government was established. (Pnus. i.

43. § 3.)

Into the value of those traditions it would be

useless to inquire. It may, however, be regarded as

certain, that Megara and its territory were in early

times regarded as part of Attica; and hence Strata

accounts for the omission of their names in the

Hi.Ml. because they were comprehended along with

the Athenians under the general name of Iunians.

(Stnib. ix. p. 392.) The most certain event in the

history of Megara is its conquest by the Dorians.

This event is connected in tradition with the ex­

pedition of the 1'eloponnesians against Athens.

The Dorian invaders were defeated by the voluntary

sacrifice of Codrus; but Megaris was notwithstanding

permanently conquered, and a Corinthian and Mcs-

aenian colony founded at Megara. The pillar at the

isthmus of Corinth, which had hitherto marked the

boundaries of Ionia and Peloponnesus, was now re­

moved; and Megara was henceforth a Dorian state,

and its territory included in Peloponnesus. (Strab.

ix. p. 393; Scymn. Ch. 502.) Megara, however,

continued for some time to be Bubject to Corinth,

and it was not without frequent struggles and

wars that it at length established its independence.

(For authorities, see Mtiller, Dorians, i.-5. § 10.)

Megara appears not to have become the ruling city

in the district till it was independent of Corinth,

since in earlier times it had been only one of the

five hamlets (ftw/iai), into which the country was

divided, nsmely, the Heraeans, Piraeans, Megarians,

Cynosurians and Tripodiscaeans. (Plut. Quaest.

Oraecc. 17, p. 387.)

After Megara had become an independent city,

its prosperity rapidly increased, and in the seventh

century before the Christian era it was one of the

most flourishing commercial cities of Greece. For

this it was chiefly indebted to its admirable situa­

tion, which gave its inhabitants great facilities for

the prosecution of commerce both by land and sea.

Ail the roads from Northern Greece to Peloponnesus

passed through their country, while their shores

being washed by the Corinthian and Saronic gulfs,

enabled them to trade both with the West and East.

Megara founded some of the earlier Grecian

colonies, both in Sicily and Thrace. In b. c. 728

it established Megara Hyblaea in Sicily, in 712

Astacus in Bithynia, in G75 Cyzicus in the Pro-

pontis, in the following year Chah*edon at the

mouth of the Bosporus, and in 657 Byzantium

opposite Chalcedoii. About this time, or rather

litter, Comedy is said to have been invented by the

Megarians. According to the common account,

Susarion, a native of Tripodiscus in Megaris, intro­

duced comedy into Attica, (itict of Biogr. art.

SrsAUioN.) But, with the increase of wealth, the

lower orders attempted to obtain a share in the

government, which had hitherto been exclusively in

the hands of the Dorian conquerors; and Theagenes,

the father-in-law of Cylon, I* came tyrant or despot

of Megara, by attacking the rich landed proprietors

and advocating the claims of the poor. (Aristot.

RhtL i. 2, Polii. v. 4.) He embellished the city by

the construction of a beautiful aqueduct, which con­

tinued to exi.-t down to the time of Pausanias

(i. 40. § 1). Theagenes ruled about B.C. 630—

600; but he was subsequently driven from power,

and Megara was for some time torn asunder by

struggles between the aristocracy and democracy.

The elegiac poet Theognis, who belonged to the

aristocracy, deplores the sufferings of his party, and

complains that the poor no longer paid the hi

of their debts, and that they plundered the huu»i

of the rich and even the temples.

About the same time the Megarians were engaged

in frequent contests with their neighbours in Attica.

The chief struggle between them was for the ttkad

of Salamis, which was at length gained by tU

Athenians in consequence of the well-known stra-

tagem of Solon. (Pans. i. 40. § 5; Strab. ix. p.

394.) The Megarians took their share in the Per­

sian wars. They fought with 20 ships at tfat

battles of Artemtsium and Salamis. (Herod, riii.

1, 45.) They repulsed a body of Persians whom

Mardonius sent to ravage their territory (Paus. L

40. § 2), and finally 3000 of their troops (ought at

the battle of Plataea. (Herod, ix. 28.)

After the Persian War the Megarians were in­

volved in hostilities with the Corinthian* respect ing

the boundaries of their territories. This led the

Megarians to desert the Peloponnesian alliance, acd

unite themselves with the Athenians, b. c 455. la

order to secure their communication with Megara,

the Athenians built two Long Walls connecting the

city with Nisaea; and they garrisoned at the same

time the town of Pegae, on the Corinthian gulf.

(Thuc i. 103.) But ten years afterwards the Me­

garians revolted from Athens, and having obtained

the assistance of some Peloponnesian troops, tbey

slew the Athenian garrison, with the exception of

those who escaped into Nisaea. Tbey continued to

hold Nisaea and Pegae, but they also surrendered

these towns in the thirty years' truce made in taw

same year (445) with Sparta and her allies. (Tauc

i. 114, 115.) The Athenians thus lost all autho­

rity over Megaris; but they were so exasperated

with the Megarians, that they passed a decree

excluding them from their markets and porta. This

decree pressed very hard upon the Megarians, wheat

unproductive soil was not sufficient to support the

population, and who obtained most of their supplies

from Attica: it was one of the reasons urged by the

Peloponnesians for declaring war against Athens.

(Thuc i. 67 , 139; Aristoph. Acham. 533.)

In the Peloponnesian War the Megarians suffered

greatly. In the first year of the war the Athm-an»

invaded Megaris with a very large force, and laid

waste the whole territory np to the city walls. At

the same time the Athenian fleet blockaded the

harbour of Nisaea, so that Megara was in the situa­

tion of a besieged city cut off from all its supplier.

This invasion was repeated by the Athenians unrv

in every year, and sometimes even twice; and the

sufferings which the people then endured were

remembered by them many centuries afterward*,

and were assigned to Pausanias as the reason wiry

one of their works of art had not been finished. (Thar,

ii. 31; Plut. Per. 30; Pans. i. 40. § 4.) In the fifth

year of the Peloponnesian War (b. c. 427), the Athe­

nians under Nicias took possession of the island of M*-

noa, which lay in front of Nisaea, and lek a garruwai

there, by which means the port of Nisaea was still

more effectively blockaded. (Thuc. iii. 51.) Of the po­

sition of this island, and of the causeway connecting

it with the mainland, we shall speak presently, tn

the eighth year of the Pelnponne&ian War (n.f. 424 X.

the democratkal party in Megara fearing the return

of the aristocratical exiles, who were at Pegae, en­

tered into negotiations with the Athenian* to sur­

render their city to them. The Athenians atill b*ld

Miuoa; and the Long Walls and Nisaea were utvu-

picd by an Athenian garriauo. The

