2-i MARSYABAE. MARSYABAK.

of Leuce Come with El-Hanra, proposed by D'An-

ville, to the Moilah of Gosselin and Vincent In

cumnon with D'Anville and Vincent, be finds the

town of Anagrana (which he writes " la ville des

Ne'granes") in the modern Xedjrdn, and doubtingly

fixes Marsyabae at Mdreb in Yemen. The Manitae

of Ptolemy he identifies with the Rhamunitao of

Strabo,—suggesting an ingenious correction to Ja-

raanitae = the people of Yemen (L' Lrniters. Arable,

pp. 58, S9). 6. Jomard, one of the highest autho­

rities on Araltian geography, has offered a few valu­

able remarks on the expedition of Callus, with a

view to determine the line of march. He thinks the

name Marsyabae an evident corruption for Mariaba,

wljich he assumes to bo ,l that of the Tank," the

capital of the Minaei, now Mdreb. Negranes ex­

actly corresponds with Xedjrdn or Xeyrdn, nine

day.**'journey N\V. of Mdreb. He fixes Leuce Come

at Moilahi and Xegra or Nora opposite to Coseyr, in

the 2Cth degree of latitude. His argument for de­

termining the value of a day's march is ingenious.

The whole distance from Mareb to the place indi­

cated would be 350 leagues of 25 to a degree. From

Mariaba to Negra was 60 days' inarch: Xegrdn,

therefore, which was nine days from Mariaba, is &ths

of tin' whole march, and Watty Xedjrdn is 52 leagues

N\V. of Afdreb. The distance of the Seven Wells,

eleven days from Xegrdn, = ^ths of the march =rl 17

leagues from Mariaba: and the same analogy might

have been applied to Chaalla and the river Malothns,

had Strabo indicated the distances of these two sta­

tions. The troops, in order to reach the sea, on their

retreat must have traversed the province ofAsyr, a dis­

trict between Fetnefl and the//cu^(whosegeocraphy

has been recently restored to us by M. Jomard), and

one of the elevated plains which separate the moun­

tain chain of Yemen from that of the Htdjaz. "The

road," he says." is excellent,and a weak body of trooja

could defend it against a numerous army." Having

thus disposed of the line followed in the retreat, he

briefly considers the advance: — "The country go­

verned by Areta*. and the next mentioned, Ararene,

correspond with Thamoud and Xedjd, and the south­

ern part of the latter province approaching Xedjrdn

has always been a welt-peopled and cultivated dis­

trict, Asca, on the river, and Athrulla, the last-

named station before Mariaba, cannot be exactly

determined, as the distances are not stated; and the

line between Xedjrdn and Mdreb is still but little

known.** (Jomard, ap. Mengin. Huioire de VEgypte,

£c., pp. 383 — 389.) 7. Mr. Forster has investi­

gated tlip march with his usual diligence, and with

the partial success and failure that must almost

necosarily attach to the investigation of so difficult

a subject. To take first the three main points, viz.,

Leuce Come, the point of departure; Marsyabae, the

extreme limit; and Nera, the point at which they

embarked on their return. He accepts D'Anville s

identification of I/aura as Lcnce Come, thinking the

coincidence of name decisive; Marnyabae he finds in

fsibbia, the chief city of the province of Sabie, a dis­

trict on the northern confines of Yemen. 100 miles

S. of Brishe, the frontier and key of Yemen; and

Nera, in Yembo, the sea-port of Medina, The line

of march on their advance he makes very circuitous,

ai Strabo intimates; conducting them first through

the heart of Xedjd to the province of El-Ahta on the

Persian Gulf, arid then airam through the name pro­

vince in a SW. direction to Yemen. On their re­

treat, ho brings them direct to Xedjrdn, then due

west to the sea, which they coast as far north as |

Yembo. To be more particular: he thinks that "a

difference in distance in the advance and retreat,

commensurate, in some reasonable degree, with the

recorded difference of time, i.e. as 3 to 1, mast be

found ; that the caravan road from Ilavra by Me­

dina and Kasym, into the heart of Xedjd, was the

line followed by Gallus (the very route, in fart,

traver>ed by Captain Sadlier in 1819: Trantaciimu

of Lit. Soc. of Bombay, vol. x. pp. 449—493),

and thence by one of the great Xedjd roads iota

Yemen, the description of which in burckhardt

agrees in many minute particulars with the brief

notices of Strabo. He further finds nearly all tbr

towns named by Pliny as taken by the Kornans, on

this line of march : Mariaba of the Caltngii in Merab,

in the NE. extremity of Xedjd, within the province

of Uagar or Bahrein—in the former of which names

he finds the Ararena or Agarena of Strabo. Caripeia

he identifies, as Gosselin had done, with Carintatn in

Xedjd; but he does not attempt to explain how

Pliny conld call this the extreme limit of the exj*-

dition,—"quo lougissime processit." The Tamma-

cus of Pliny = the Agdami of Ptolemy = tne well-

known town of Tayf. Magusa ( Ptolemy's Magulaba)

presents itself in A'orn el-Maghsal, a place situated

about half-way between Tayf and Xedjrdn, which

last is with him, as with all preceding writers ex­

cept Gosselin, the Anagrana of Strabo, the Xegra of

Pliny. "Labecia is the anagram, with the slightest

possible inversion, of Al-BeUhe ;n and this i* called

by the northern Bedouins "the key of IVmew,"—the

only pass, according to Burckbardt, for heavy-laden

camels going from Me Ha to Yemen, " a very fertile

district, extremely rich in date-trees." The river at

which the battle with the Arabs was fought is the

modern Sancan, "which, taking its rise in the

iledjaz mountains near A'orn el-Maghtai, after a

southern course of somewhat more than 100 miles,

is lost in the sands of the Tehamah, to the westward

of the mountains of Atyr." The Asca of Strabo,

the Nesca of Pliny, are "obviously identical with

Sancan, the present name of a town sealed on the

Sancan river, near its termination in the sand*."

Athrulla, next mentioned by Strabo, is again Labecia,

i. e. BeUhe ; and this hypothesis "implies a counter­

march," of which there is no bint in the author*.

Lastly, " if Amnestus may be supposed to have rM

representative in Jbn Maan (the Manambis of Pto­

lemy), a town about half-way between BeUhe and

Sabbia, all the cities enumerated by Pliny occur on

the route in question."

As to the retreat of the army. From Marsyaba*

to Xedjrdn, a distance of from 140 to 160 mile*, w »*

accomplished in nine days; thence to the Seven

Wells, eleven days from Xedjrdn, brings us to Ai-

llasba (in Arabic " the Seven "), a place ai-mt 1 SO

miles due west of Xedjrdn, and then to Chaalla,

the modern Chaulan (according to Forster as well aw

D'Anville, the chief town of the province of the same

name), and thence to Malotha, situated on a river, tbe

same as that crossed on the advance,i.e. the .Ssiinm.

The Malotha of Strabo is plainly identified, Lr n

site, with the Tabala of Burckhardt, a town on :*.«■

Sancan. at this point, on the caravan mad to HeJj>*z,

a short day's march from El~Jfojba. From Mawcha

to Nera Come, i. e. through the Tehama*, there are

two routes described by Burckhardt; one aloof t»w

coast, in which only one well i* found brtwerw

I)Jidda and l^eyth,—a distance of four day*; aimt !«rr

more eastern, somewhat mountainou.*, yieldiug penty

of water, five days' journey between the same tsr*>

