PYLUS. PYLUS. 685

lis eastern tide or towards the lagoon; while on the

••'-era tide or towards the open sea it slopes gra-

— iy, particularly on the SW., where Demosthenes

. w«M in preventing the landing of Brasidas and

Uc Lacedaemonians. The promontory is higher at

- r -Tthem end. Below the ruined fortress at the  
srthern end there is a fine cavern, called Voidho-

f<^> (BoiU-KoiW), •' the ox's belly," which gives

«* to the mall circuUr port immediately below

t, ahicb has been already Epoken of. This cavern

H left long. 40 wide, and 40 high, having a roof

i*e • Gothic arch. Tbe entrance is triangular, 30

■< »j; aud 12 high; at the top of the cavern there

■ »n opening in the surface of the hill above.

'4i can was, according to the Peloponnesian tra-

■aon. the one into which the infant Hermes drove

l» cattle be had stolen from Apollo. It is men-

is tbe Homeric hymn to Hermes as situated

[■» the sea-side (v. 341); but in Antoninus Li-

nu (e. 23) it is expressly said to have been at

rtptasium. In Ovid (SfeL ii. 684) Mercury is

7^-aud as beholding from Mt. Cyllene the un-

Uft-d cattle proceeding into the fields of Pylus.

The hay of Voidho-Kilid is separated by a low

ij.-:rro!ar ridge of sand from the large shallow

, of Omyn-Aga. As neither Thucydides nor

iwrtti says a word about this lagoon, which now

nm » striking a feature in tbe topography of this

errt, we may confidently conclude, with Leake,

j» :: i» of recent formation. The peninsula must,

Ual case, have been surrounded with a sandy

a Pauaanias describes it; and accordingly,

n f appose this to have been the site of the

ewric Pylus, the epithet iiiut66tis, which the

illy giTes to it, would be perfectly ap-

Ji* Athenians did not surrender their fortress at

to the Lacedaemonians in accordance with

I treaty made in B. c. 421 (Thuc v. 35), but

pnae&feion of it lor fifteen years, and only

II towards the close of the Peloponnesian War.

ad. xui. 64.) On tbe restoration of the Meg-

ana to their country by Epaminondas, Pylus

a> appears in history. Tbe remains of the walls

■sty described belong to this period. On more

■ me onrawinn there was a depute between the

■auaa and Achaeans respecting the possession

ta« place. (Lit. xxvii. 30; Polyb. xviii. 25.)

Revisited by I'ausaniai, who saw there a temple

lUcsa Coryphaeia, the so-named house of Nestor,

sax( a pact ore of him, his tomb, and a cavern

11> bate been the stable of the oxen of Neleus

Stmt. He describes the latter as within the

. «L»b n»t therefore have extended nearly to

t.-jiera czmI of the promontory, as this cave is

■ally the one described above. (Pans. v. 36.)

r> are imperial coins of this city bearing the

ts ki DaXivr, belonging to the time of Severus.

IWl vei. H. p. 277.) It would appear from

«- lial tlie restored city was also called Cory-

bjcb. bode Jk says that '* at the time of the

League there was a town of Coryphasium,

a> Mara tram a coin, which shows that Cory-

Baa] was a member of that confederacy." (i'e-

•««, Ji 131)

ar -seders name A varfno, corrupted, as already

. Mo Xmxu two, is probably due to the Avars,

affiled there in the sixth century of the Chris-

era. The mediaeval castle was built by the

iv rt the Frmnkiah chieftain William de la

j- Her <k»ceijdmnts sought a more convenient

place for their residence, and erected on the southern

side of the harbour the Neokastro or modem A'a-

rarino. It commanded the southern end of the

harbour, which became more and more important as

the northern entrance became choked up. Con­

taining, as it does, the best harbour in the Pelopon­

nesus, Navarino constantly appears in modern his­

tory. It was taken by the Turks in 1500. In

1685 it was wrested from them by the Venetian

commander Morosini, and remained in the hands of

the Venetians till 1715. In more recent times it is

memorable by the great battle fought in its bay, on

the 20th of October, 1827, between the Turkish

fleet and tbe combined fleets of England, France,

and Russia. (Curtius, Ptloponnaoa, vol. ii. p. 181.)

It remains to speak of the site of the Homeric

Pylos. According to a generally received tradition,

Neleus, the son of Poseidon, migrated from lolcos

in Thessaly, and founded on the west coast of

Peloponnesus a kingdom extending westward as

far as that of the Atridae, and northward as far as

the Alpheius, or even beyond this river. Neleus

incurred the indignation of Hercules for refusing to

purify him after the murder of his son Iphitus.

Tbe hero took Pylus and killed Neleus, together

with eleven of his twelve sons. But his surviving

son Nestor upheld the fame of his house, and, after

distinguishing himself by his exploits in youth and

manhood, accompanied in his old age the Grecian

chiefs in their expedition against Troy. Upon the

invasion of Peloponnesus by the Dorians, three gene­

rations after Nestor, the Keloids quitted Pylus and

removed to Athens, where they obtained the kingly

power. The situation of this Pylus — the IMAos

Nij\^i'or, as it was called — was a subject of much

dispute among the Grecian geographers and gram­

marians. Strabo (viii. p. 339) quotes a proverbial

verse, in which three towns of this name were

mentioned —

tan Tlv\os lrpb ru'Amrj- IIoXo? y4 fx4y ian ual

SAAoj,—

of which the former half—"Eoti X\v\oi rpb

TlvKoio — was at least as old as the time of Aristo­

phanes, when Pylus became famous by the capture

of the Spartans at Sphacteria. (ArUtoph. Kquil.

1059.) The claims of the Eleian Pylus to lie the

city of Nestor may be safely set on one side; and

the choice lies between the towns in Triphylia and

Messenia. The ancients usually decided in favour

of the Mcsseninn Pylos. This is the opinion of

Tausanias (iv. 36), who unhesitatingly places the

city of Nestor on the promontory of Coryphasium,

all hough, as we have already seen, he agrees

with the people of 1. that Homer, in describing

the Alpheius as flowing through the land of the

Pvliaus (//. v. 545), had a view to the Eleian city.

(Paus. vi. 22. § 6.) It is however, much more

probable that the "land of the Pylians" was used

by the poet to signify the whole kingdom of the

Neleian Pylus, since he describes both Thryoessa on

the Alpheius and the cities on the Messenian gulf

as the extreme or frontier places of Pylus. (0pw-

6tooa w6\ts . . . vtari) w ^aootirof, H

xi. 712; Warm riuAov «.«ct'..nT«», //. ix. 153.)

In this sense these expressions were understood by

Strabo (viii. pp. 337, 350). It is curious that

Pausanias, who paid so much attention to Homeric

antiquities, docs not even allude to the existence of

the Triphylian Pylus. Pindar calls Nestor "the

Messenian old man." (f'gtli. vi. 35.)

Isocratc

