PANOPOLIS. 544 PANOKMUS.

rrtt ,aa**m), hut as much as 27 stadia

tin Msrfia (Dtulu). Panopens was a very an-

«u tm. onjpflally inhabited by the Phlegyae.

iutta. lit king of Panopeua, and his brother,

m lit laden of the Phocians in the Trojan War.

(hts. x. 4. $ 1.) Panopeua was also celebrated

k< lit pm of Turns, who was slain by Apollo at

tta pita, btcaott be attempted to oner violence to

La m ker wiy to Delphi. (Horn. Od. z. 576;

I'm l 4. J 5.) Panopeua was destroyed by

Unn (Hena, riii. 34), and again by Philip at

k am « U>t Sacred War. (Pans. z. 3. § 1.) It

■■ uhi b; Ux Romans in B. c. 198, on the first

tot ((jr. riiii. 18; Polyb. v. 96); and was

am for lot third true in the campaign

■m Sills and Archelaai, the general of Mith-

■na (PIsLSsil 16.) Paasanias says that the

■tat air mu 7 stadia in circuit; but in his

hi il» pact consisted of only a few huts, sitn-

k lit of a torrent. There are still con-

mni.lt muins of the ancient walls upon the

«»' 1-i'hu above A to Vlati. The masonry is

TcAtki periods, as one might have ezpected

■ ts* t«efuU destruction of the city. There are

• ••fi-i temaini of the tomb of Tityus, which,

■rotf f Paasanias. was the third of a stadium

(rrvffiftmue, and stood on the side of the

■at Panamas also mentions on the side of the

wk Vir i budding of unbaked bricks, containing

Pan* 4 PeauWur marble, which was supposed to

'«> »!« fltber fur Asclepius or Prometheus. It

a V. n-,1 by some that Prometheus made the

ran oct of the sandy-coloured rocks in the

ess -■:«><!. and that they still smelt like human

*■ (Mad, CUuneal Tour, vol. i. p. 207;  
•» Vortiem Grace, vol. ii. p. 109; L'lrichs,

ha fr. p. 151.)

rfAVilVLlS (neioToAu. Diodor. i. 18; Ptol.

|M 71; tlmrwr »dA«, Strab. zvii. p. 813;

R **Ait, Steph. B. a. r.; sometimes simply

■i Hand. p. 731; It. Anton, p. 166: Eth.

r**nw), the Greek equivalent of the Acgyp-

M^iaiittCbemmU or Chemmo (Herod, ii. 91,

l"|. Diodor. I c), was m very ancient city of

friaja, bt. 16° 4ff N. [Cbemmis.] Pano-

P tu Mud to Chem or Pan, one of the first

■ «f tkt Aegyptian divinities, or, according to a

iBaar, ta Uk Panes and Satyri generally of

► AtjTpt (plut. /,. et Omr. c. 14.) Ste­

al i triaatinm describes the Chem or Pan of

•*? •» ta Ithyphallic god, the same whose

Nbsub oenrs so frequently among the sculp-

UTtries. His face was human, like that of

: ta head-dress, like that of Amnion, con-

'straight feathers, and over the fingers

fcnrfc faaad, «bich is lifted up, is susjicnded a

P. tat Mt, like that of Amnion also, in-

■I ksi arm, i* swathed in bandages. An

1 <■ ine Kusaeir road is the ground for

">*i Cbezn and Pan were the same deity;

Gleans and Panopolis were respectively

^P**> sad Greek names for the wane city

from Diodurus (L c.) Panopolis stood

of the Nile, and was the capital of

According to Strabo (L c.)

principally by stonemasons and

■}] tad Agatfuas (hr. p. 133) says that

Laplace of the poet Nonnus a. d. 410.

feoami site of Panic worship, Panopolis

(ar its temple of Perseus. From He-

t'L -I) «t know that the Dorian chieftains

deduced their origin from Perseus through Aegypt.

It is difficult to say which of the native Aegypti.m

gods was represented by Perseus. From the root ot

the word—hfp&oi, to burn—it is probable, however,

that he is the same with the fire-god Hephai&tos or

Phtali. The Panopolite temple of Perseus was rec­

tangular, and surrounded by a wall around which

was a plantation of palm-trees. At the entrance of

the enclosure were two lofty gateways of stone, and

upon these were placed colossal statues in human

form. Within the adytum was a statue of Perseus,

and there also was laid up his sandal, two cubits long.

The priests of Panopolis asserted that Perseus oecft-

sionalty visited his temple, and that his epiphanies

were always the omens of an abundant harvest to

Aegypt. The sandals of Perseus are described by

Hesiod {Scut. Here. 220), and their deposition in

the shrine implied that, having left his abode for a

season, he was traversing the land to bless it with

especial fertility. The modem name of Panopolis is

AUimitn, an evident corruption of Chemmis. The

ruins, in respect of its ancient splendour, are incon­

siderable. It is probable, indeed, that Panopolis,

like Abydos and other of the older cities of Upper

Aegypt, declined in prosperity as Thebes rose to

metropolitan importance. (Champollion, VEgypte,

vol. i. p. 267; Pococke, Travels, p. 115; Minntoli,

p. 243.) [W. B. D.]

PANORMUS (ridVopuo*: Eth. navopfilrrjs,

Panonnitanus: Palermo), one of the most important

cities of Sicily, situated on the N. coast of the island,

about 50 miles from its NW. extremity, on an ex­

tensive bay, which is now known as the Gulf of Pa­

lermo. The name is evidently Greek, and derived

from the excellence of its port, or, more strictly

speaking, of the anchorage in its spacious bay.

(Diod. xxii. 10.) But Panormus was not a Greek

colony; it was undoubtedly of Phoenician origin,

and appears to have been one of the earliest settle­

ments of that people in Sicily. Hence, when the in­

creasing power of the Greek colonies in the island

compelled the Phoenicians to concentrate themselves

in its more westerly portion, Panormus, together with

Motya and Solus, became one of the chief seats

of their power. (Thuc vi. 2.) We find no mention

of the Phoenician name of Panormus, though it may

fairly be presumed that this Greek appellation was

not that used by the colonists themselves. It would

be natural enough to suppose that the Greek name

was only a translation of the Phoenician one ; but

the Punic form of the name, which is found on coin*,

is read " Machanath," which signifies w a camp," like

the Roman Castra, and has no reference to the port.

(Gesenius, Monum. Pkoen. p. 288; Mover's Pho-

nizier, vol. iii. p. 335.)

We have no account of the early history of any of

these Phoenician colonies in Sicily, or of the process

by which they were detached from the dependence

of the mother country and became dependencies of

Carthage; though it is probable that the change

took place when Phoenicia itself became subject to

the Persian monarchy. But it is certain that Car­

thage already held this kind of supremacy over the

Sicilian colonies when we first meet with the nar^o

of PaDonnua in history. This is not till b. c. 460,

when the great Carthaginian armament under Ha-

milcar landed there and made it their head-quarters

before advancing against Himcra. (Diod. xi. 20.)

From this time it bore an imj^irtant part in thfc wars

of the Carthaginians in Sicily, and seems to have

gradually become the acknowledged capital of their

