80 ITALIA. ITALIA.

of these the latter measurement U almost exactly

correct, but the former much overstated, as he is

speaking there of Italy exclusive of Cisalpine Gaul.

The total length of Italy (in the wider sense of the

word), from the foot of the Alps near Aoata (Au­

gusts l'raetorin) to the Iapygian promontory, is about

620 geog. miles, as measured in a direct line on a

map; but from the samo point to the promontory of

I.eucopetra, which is the extreme southern point of

Italy, is above 660 geog. miles. Pliny states the

distance from the same starting-point to Rhegium

at 1020 M. P., or 816 geog. miles, which is greatly

overstated, unless we suppose him to follow the

windings of the road instead of measuring the dis­

tance geographically. (Plin. iii. 5. s. 6.) He also

states the greatest breadth of Italy, from the Varus

to the Arsia, at 410 M. P., which is very nearly

correct; the actual distance from the Varus to the

head of the Adriatic, measured in a straight line,

being 300 geog. miles (375 M. P.), whilo from

thence to the Arsia is about 50 geog. miles. Pliny

adils, that the breadth of the peninsula, from the

mouths of the Tiber to those of the Atemus, is

130 M. P., which considerably exceeds the truth for

that particular point; but the widest part of the

peninsula, from Ancona across to the Monte Ar~

arntaro, is 130 geog., or 162 Itoman, miles.

III. Climate asd Natural Productions.

Italy was not less renowned in ancient than in

modern times for it* beauty and fertility. For this

it was indebted in great part to its climate, com­

bined with the advantages of its physical configu­

ration. Extending from the parallel of 30° N. lat.

to 46° 30', its southern extremity enjoyed the same

climate with Greece, while its northern jiortions were

on a par with the S. of France. The lofty range of

Apennines extending throughout its whole length,

and the seas which bathe its shores on both sides,

contributed at once to temper and vary its climate,

so as to adapt it for the productions alike of the

temperate and the warmest parts of Kurope. Hence

the variety as well as abundance of its natural pro­

duce, which excited the admiration of so many

ancient writers. The fine burst of enthusiasm with

which Virgil sings the prais-s of his native land

it too well known to require notice (Virg. Gtorg

ii. 136—176) ; but even the prosaic Dionysius

and Strabo are kindled into almost equal ardour

by the same theme. The former writer remarks,

that of all countries with which he was acquainted

Italy united the most natural advantages: for that

it did not, like Egypt or Babylonia, possess a soil

adapted fur agriculture only; but while the Cam-

panian plains rivalled, if they did not surpass, in

fertility all other arable lands, the olives of Mcssa-

pia, Daunia, and the Sabincs, were not excelled by

any oilieni; and the vineyards of Etruria, the Fa-

l.Tiiuvn and the Alban hills, produced wines of the

most excellent quality, and in the greatest abundance.

Nor was it less favourable to the rearing of flocks,

whether of sheep or goats; while its pastures were

of the richest description, and supported innumerable

herds both of horses and cattle. Its mountain sides

were clothed with magnificent forests, affording

abundance of timber for ship-building and all other

purp&es. which could be transported to the coast

with facility by its numerous navigable rivers.

Abundance of warm springs in different parts of the

country supplied not only the means of luxurious

laths, but \aluablc medical remedies. Its seas

abounded in fish, and its mountains contained mine*

of all kinds of metals; but that which was tbo

greatest advantage of all was the excellent tempe­

rature of its climate, free alike from the extreme* at

heat and cold, and adapted for all kinds of plants

and animals. (I)ionys. i. 36, 37.) Strabo dwells

not only on these natural resources, but on its po­

litical advantages as a seat of empire; defended no

two sides by the sea, on the third by almost im­

passable mountains; possessing excellent ports on

both seas, yet not affording too great facilities of

access; and situated in such a position, with regard

to the great nations of Western Europe, on the one

side, and to Greece and Asia, on the oilier, as seemed

to destine it for universal dominion. (Strab. vi p.

286.) Pliny, as might be expected, is not less en­

thusiastic in favour of his native country, and Varro

adds that of all countries it was that in which the

greatest advantage was derived from its nat'iral

fertility by careful cultivation. (Plin. iii. 5. a. 6,

xxxvii. 13. s. 77; Varr. R. R. i. 2.)

It is probable that the climate of Italy did not

differ materially in ancient times from what it is at

the present day. The praises bestowed on it for its

freedom from excessive heat in summer may surprise

those who compare it in this respect with more

northern climates; but it is to be remembered that

ancient writers spoke with reference to the countries

around the Mediterranean, and were more familiar

with the climate of Africa, Syria, and Egypt, than

with those of Gaul or Germany. On the other hand,

there are passages in the Roman writers that seem

to indicate a degree of cold exceeding what is foen 1

at the present day, especially in the neighbourhood

of Rome. Horace speaks of Soracte as white with

snow, and the Alban hills as covered with it on tbe>

first approach of winter (Hor. Carm. i. 9, Ep. i. 7-

10); and Juvenal even alludes to the Tiber bein-

covered with ice, as if it were an ordinary occurrence

(vi. 522). Some allowance may be made for pnrtival

exaggeration; but still it is probable that the climate

of Italy was somewhat colder, or rather that the

winters were more severe than they now are, though

this remark must be confined within narrow limits;

and it is probable that the change which lias taken

place is far less than in Gaul or Germany.

Great stress has also been laid by many modern

writers upon the fact that populous cities then ex­

isted, and a thriving agricultural population was

found, on sites and in districts now desolated by

malaria; and hence it is inferred that the climate baa

become much more unhealthy in modern times. But

population and cultivation have in themselves a

strong tendency to repress the causes of malaria.

The fertile districts on the coasts of Southern Italy

once occupied by the flourishing Greek colonies are

now pestilential wastes; but they became almost de­

solate from other causes before they grew so ns-

healthy. In the case of Paestum, s marked dimi­

nution in the effects of malaria has been perceived,

even from the slight amount of population that has

been attracted thither since the site has becroe the

frequent resort of travellers, and the partial culti­

vation that has resulted from it Nor can it be

asserted that Italy, even in its most flourishing days,

was ever free from this srource, though [articular

localities were undoubtedly more healthy than at

present. Thus, the Mnrrmma of Tuscany was 0'<e.l,

even in the time of Pliny, for its insalubrity (Plin.

Ep. v. 6); tho neighbourhood of Ardea was almat

uninhabited from the tame cause, at a still earlier

