PUTEOLI. 679 PUTEOLI.

The date assigned to this Samian colony by

is u Utc as B. c. 521. No mention ocean

l>v<wchia in history previous to the conquest

! C-.mae by the Campanians: from its serving

■ tie part of Comae it could probably never have

ik*a any active or independent part; but there

do doubt that it moat have become a populous

A nVxu-iahuig town. The name of Dicaearchia

»3T»ed to be applied to it by Greek writers long

* t it had assumed the new appellation of Puteoli.  
Jtod. rr. 22. v. 13. &c)

r> pcriid of this change is uncertain. It is

KxaJry caid that the Romans bestowed on it the

■» same when they established their colony there;

* :strt Menu good reason to believe that it was  
fc Urafaly more ancient. The name of Puteoli is

to the city by Livy daring the Second Punic

•r (Lir. xxiv. 7). and there is much probability

■ tie coins with the Oscan inscription "Phistlus,"

~»*2ae» Graecixed into Phistelia, belong to Puteoli

nthe period previous to the Roman colony.

.-mcen. S'umum. de tAnc. ltalie, p. 201; Fried-

swr, OtHt.hr Mmse*. p. 29.) According to the

the name of Puteoli was derived

the stem-h arising from the numerous

springs in the neighbourhood, or (with

r ratability) from the wells (putei) or sources

i' j^ranic nature with which it abounded. (Varro,

.'. v. 25; Feat- *. P. Puttoli; Plin. xxxi. 2; Strab.

s. 245; Slept. B. *. t. IWoAoi)

n- fcrat mention of Puteoli in history is during

v—urxl Punic War, when it was fortified by Q.

■ a tT«3cder of the senate, and protected by a

«C parriwa to secure it from the attempts of

EaaaL fx. C- 215. That general, indeed, in the

* muoa made an attempt, though without

— •. to nake himself master of the city, the

fvi c J its port being an object of the greatest

room to him. (Liv. xxiv. 7, 12, 13.) Livy

H> •/ l*Btenii aa having first become frequented

tar-: na cucwjuencc of the war; and though this

e «-r>rtJy correct, as we know that it was fre-

>■■ ;<iy before under the name of Dicaearchia,

vko&e that it then first rose to the high de-

rf rcnmerrcial importance which it subsequently

lei later the Rxnaos. Thus in b. c. 212 it

■t taa ariaripal port where the supplies of corn

ra-jraa and Sardinia were landed for the use

» hVmao army thut was besieging Capua (Liv.

JJ); aad the next year it was from thence

i. zx^iitu Hero am barked with two legions for

L (I*, xrri. IT.) Towards the close of the

aao (a. a. SOS) it was at Puteoli that the

carruan aunbauaadurs landed, on their way to

'I !, xxx. 2i.) It was doubtless the growing

-x^-r of Patteoai as a commercial emporium  
fci tiw Rornaos to establish a colony there in

1M {Lit. »wir. 45: Veil. PaL i. 15): the

a iv^ned by a remarkable inscription of

U<5 (M.m3»ett. Inter. ft. A'. 2458), and it

i t < have baeoxxsa before the close of the Re­

tt f-«ntir.o*»l tinder the Empire, one of the

r*M*l«rabse places of trade in Italy. From

- . Dr.t really good port on the south of  
is* Antiam coakl never deserve that epithet)

utt H a mani^r the port of the imperial city,

outsail from it not less than 150 miles.

i*l traveller* coming from the East to

"tt-j»eriirv i^od at Puteoli and proceed from

■ it !».•»•' u> the «-ity, as in the well-known

at Paul (Act. Apvst. xxviii. 13) and

Cicero on his return to Rome from his quaestor-

ship in Sicily (Cic. pro Plane. 26), but the same

coarse was pursued with the greater part of the

merchandise brought from the East, especially

with the costly wares sent from Alexandria, and

even the supplies of corn from the same quar­

ter. (Strab. xvii. p. 793; Suet. A tig. 98; Se-

nec Ep. 77.) Strabo speaks of Puteoli as one of

the most important trading cities of his time (v. p.

245), and it is evident from the expressions of

Seneca (£ c.) that this had not fallen off in the days

of Nero. The trade with Alexandria indeed, im­

portant as it was, was only one branch of its exten­

sive commerce. Among other things the irun of

llva, after being smelted at Populonium, was brought

to Puteoli (Diod. v. 13): and the city carried on

also a great trade with the Turdetanians in the

south of Spain, as well as with Africa. (Strab. iii.

p. 145.) We learn also from an inscription still ex­

tant, that its trade with Tyre was of such importance

that the Tyrians had a regular factory there (Boeckh,

C. I. no. 5853); and another inscription mentions a

number of merchants from Berytus as resident there.

(Mommsen, /. ft. A'. 2488.) Indeed there seems no

doubt that it was under the Roman Empire one of

the greatest—if not the greatest—emporiums of

foreign trade in all Italy For this advantage it

was in a great measure indebted to the excellence of

its port, which, besides being naturally well sheltered,

was farther protected by an extensive mole or pier

thrown out into the bay and supported on stone piles

with arches between them. Hence Seneca speaks of

the population of Puteoli assembling on this mole

(in pilis) to watch for the arrival of the ships from

Alexandria. (Sen. Ep. 77.) Puteoli had peculiar

facilities for the construction of this and similar

works, from the excellent quality of its volcanic sand,

which formed a inortar or cement of the greatest

hardness and durability, and wholly proof against

the influence of the sea-water. (Strab. v. p. 245;

Plin. xxxv. 13. s. 47.) This kind of cement is still

known by the name of Pozzotatia.

It was from the extremity of the mole of Puteoli

that Caligula carried his celebrated bridge across

the bay to the opposite shores at Baiae. (Suet. Cat.

19, 32; Dion C&ss. lix. 17; Joseph. Ant. xix. 1. §

1.) It is scarcely necessary to observe that this

bridge was merely a temporary structure [Baiae],

and the remains still visible at Pozzuoli which are

popularly known as the Bridge of Caligula are in

fact the piles or piers of the mole of Puteoli. The

construction of this mole is generally ascribed to

Augustus, without sufficient authority; but it is

probable that it dates from at least as early a period:

and we learn that there were in his time extensive

docks (navalia) at Puteoli, in which the huge ships

that had been employed in bringing the obelisks

from Egypt were preserved,—a sufficient proof of the

magnitude of these establishments. (Plin. xxxvi.

9. a. 14.) Another proof of the importance of

Puteoli is the fact that Claudius established there,

as well as at Oslia, a cohort of troops to guard the

city against fire, in the same manner as was done at

Rome (Suet. Claud. 25). In A. r>. 95 Domitian

constructed a new line of road leading direct to

Puteoli from Sinuessa, where it quitted the Appian

Way. (Dion Cass, hcvii. 14; Stat Silv. iv. 3.)

Previous to that time its communication with Rome

must have been by way of Capua, to which a branch

road (not given in the Itineraries) led direct from

Puteoli.

