396 NALATA. NAPATA.

his victory over the Goths in a. n. 269 (Zosim. i.

45); but the town is chiefly memorable as the birth­

place of Constantinc the Great. (Stepti. 11 i. v.;

Const. Porph. de Them. ii. 9. p. 56, cd. Bonn.)

It was destroyed by the Huns under Attila (Priscus,

p. 171, ed. Bonn.), but was restored by Justinian

(Procop. iv. 1, where it is called Naisopolis). It

Mill exists under the name of Nissa, upon the river

Ni-titara, an affluent of the Morava.

NALATA. [Dalmatia.]

NAMADUS (Nd,uaJor, or Kauains, I'tol. vii. 1.

§§ 5, 31, 62, 65), a great river of Western India,

which, after rising in the M. Vindius ( Yindhya

Mountains), falls into the S. Barygazenus (Gulf of

Cambay), not far from tho town of Beroach. In the

Prripl. M. Erythr. (Gtoyr. Grace, vol. i. p. 291,ed.

Miiller) the river is called Namnadius (Na,uid5ioi).

The present name is Kerbudda, which, like the

Greek form, is doubtless derived from the Sanscrit

KarmAda, "pleasant." (Forbes, Oriental Mem.

ii. pp.8, 104 —112.) [V.]

NAMSETES, NANXE'TKS (Ncuu^Tai, Ptol.

ii. 8. § 9). for there is authority fur both forms,

were a Gallic jx'ople on the north side of the Liger

(/joire), ami on the sea. The river separated them

from the Pictones or I'ictavi. (Strab. iv. p. 190.)

Their chief town was Condivicnuin (Xante*). When

Caesar was carrying on his war with the Veneti,

these maritime Galli called in to their aid the

Osismi, Xannetes, and other neighbouring people.

(Caes. B. G. iii. 9.) The Brivates Portus of Ptolemy

is within the limits of the Namnetes. The former

diocese of Nantes exceeded the limits of the territory

of the Namnetes. [G. L.]

NANAGITNA (Nw.ryo.Wr, Ptol. vii. 1. §§ 7, 32,

36), a considerable river of Western India, which

rises, like the Xerbudila, in the YindJiya Mountains,

and flows into the Indian Ocean to the S. of the

former river, not far from Surat. Its present name

is the Jupati or Japti. (Lassen, Ind. Alterth.

vol. i. p. 88. [V,]

NAXIGEIM. [Naqf.iri.]

NANTUATES, a people who bordered on the

Allobroges, who in Caesar's time were included

within the limits of the Provincia. Caesar (/?. G.

iii. 1) at the close of the campaign of B.C. 57 sent

Servius Galba with some troops into the country of

the "Nantuates Veragri and Scduni, who extend

from the borders of the Allobroges, the Lacus

Lemannus and the river Khone to the summits of

the Alps." The position of the Seduni in the valley

of the Khone about Sitten or Sum, and of the

Veragri lower down at Martigny or Martinack,

being ascertained, we must place the Nantuates in

the Chablais, on the south side of the I*eman lake,

a position which is conformable to Cac-ars text.

Strabo (iv. p. 204) who probably got his information

from Caesar's work, speaks "of the Veragri, Nan-

tuatae, and the Leman lake;" from which we

might infer that the Nantuates were near the lake.

An inscription in honour of Augustus, which ac­

cording to Guii-henon's testimony was found at

Maurice, which is in the Yalais lower down than

Martigny, contains the words " Nantuates patrono;"

and if the inscription belongs to the s|«t where it is

found, it is some evidence that the Nantuates were

in the lower part of the Yaliis. But if the Nan­

tuates were neighbours of the Allobroges, they must

have extended westward along the south hank of

the lake into the Chabltiis. The Chablais is thai

part of Savoy which lies along the Leinua lake

between the Arre and the Yalait. It is wit rertaii

how far the Allobroges extended along the L»tn«a

lake east of Geneva, which town was in thair

teiritory. It has been observed that the word

A'ont in the Celtic language signifies '• ninnicg

water;" and it is said that in the dialect of Savoy,

every little mountain stream is called XeaU, and

that there are many streams of this name. A'aal

is also a Welsh word for stream.

There is another passage in Caesar, where the

name Nantuates occurs in the common texts (B. G.

iv. 10), which has caused great difficulty. He says

that the Khenns rises in the country of the Lrpwitu

who occupy the Alps, and that it flows by a locg

distance (longo spatio) through the country of the

Nantuates, Helvetii, and others. Walckenarr afF.nr.i

(Giog. cfe. vol. i. p. 558) that the best and lie

greater part of the MSS. of Caesar have Yatuatiam;

but this is not true. The readines in this pa--e*re

are Nantuatium, Natuanlium, Vatuantium, Jtaa-

tuantium, and some other varieties. (Caesar, ed.

Schneid.) Strabo (iv. p. 192) says tint the Aetusiae

(AiVomtTai) inhabit the first part of the coarse of

the Hhine, and that the somces of the river are

in their country near Mount Adulas. Caaaubon

changed Aetuatac into Nantuatae to make it agree

with Caesar's text, and Cluver clianged it into

Helvetii. Both changes are opposed to sound criti­

cism. The name in Caesar's text is not certain,

and in Strabo it may be wrong, but nothing is

plainer than that these people, whatever is their

name, are in the valley of the Rhine. Oberlin in

his edition of Caesar lias put the name ** Sarune-

tium" in place of "Nantuatium;" but the Sa-

runetes of Pliny were in the valley of Sargims.

Groskurd (Transl. Strab. vol. i. p. 192) has adopted

the alteration "Helvetii" in his translation; and

very injudiciously, for the Helvetii were not in the

high Alps. Ukcrt (Gallien, p. 349) would aba

alter Strabo's Aetuatae into Nantuatae to fit the

common text of Caesar ; and he gives his rxpUr-atjun

of the position of the Nantuatae, which is a very

bad explanation. The Nantuates occur among the

Alpine peoples who are mentioned in the Trophy of

Augustus (Plin. iii. 20). and they are placed that:

"Lepontii, Uberi. Nantuates, Seduni, Veragri," from

which, if we can conclude anything, we may con­

clude that these Nantuates are the Nantuates uf tb«

hover Yalais. [G. I..]

NAPAEI. [Tatbica CiiKit*iXFJis.J

NAPAHIS (Ndxcuiir, Herod, iv. 49). an affluent

of the Ister, identified by Schafarik (SlnirucAe

AlterthiinuT, vol. i. p. 506) with the Arm-* if toe

Peutinger Table. It is one of the rivers which take

their source in the Transyltanitin Alps, probably

the Anlsehich. [E. B. J.]

NAPATA (NawaTo, Strab. xviL p. 820; rIoL

iv. 7. § 19, viii. 16. § 8; Nairaral, Steph. B. s. r.;

TaniirT), Dion Cass. liv. 5.), was the capital of an

Aethiopian kingdom, north of the insular region vf

Meroe, and in about 1st. 19° N. Then is, how­

ever, great difficulty in determining the true (■•it>t>

of Napata, as Strabo (/. c.) places it much fanner X.

than Pliny, and there is reason for supposing thai

it is tho designation of a royal residence, whan

might be moveable, rather than of a fixed locality.

Kilter (Erdhmdet, vol. i. p. 591) brings Napata ia

far north as Priuiis (/ortni), and the mine at lf-

stwibul, while Manuert, Ukert, and other g**x:ra-

phers believe it to have been Mermrt, on the furthest

northern joint of the region of llerue. It is, ho*­

