TRinOI.A. 1229 TRICCA.

i).«t in Germans, his narrative shows that he

r flwiprcJ them to be Germans. In another passage

US. 0. iv. 10) Caesar places the Triboci on the

kbine between the Mediomatrici and the Treriri,

ill Ik means to place them on the left or Gallic side

rt theKtiine. Strabo (ir. p. 193), after mentioning

titf Seqoaui and Mediomatrici as extending to the

Uiine, iuts, " Among them a German people has

h-uled. the Trihocchi, who have passed over from

their native land." Pliny also (iv. 17) and Tacitus

(Cmnan. c 28) say that the Tribocci are Germane.

The true conclusion from Caesar is that he sup-

paed the Tribocci to be settled in Gallia before

a. a 58.

I'toleray (ii. 9. § 17) places the Tribocci in Upper

Crmanm. but he incorrectly places the Vangiones

Utwera the Nemetes and the Tribocci, for the Ne-

cittea bordered on the Tribocci. However he places

the Tribocci next to the Rauraci, and he names

UreQcomagus(Brocoinagus) and Kkcbus ( Helcebus)

as the two towns ot the Tribocci. D'Anville snpposeB

fiat the territory of the Tribocci corresponded to the

coctMof Strtutbury. Saletio (SeM*z orSetz), we may

tunp«c belonged to the Neinetes, as in modern

i.'mes it belonge<l to the diocese of Speier; and it is

nnirthe nurthern limits of the diocesoof Straubttrg.

On the south towards tho Rauraci, a place named

■VarttUkeim, on the southern limit of the diocese of

ftraubwg and bordering on that of Butle, indicates

a boundary by a Teutonic name (mark), as Fines

does in those parts of Gallia where the Roman tongue

prevailed. The name of the Tribocci does not appear

ni the Xotit- Provinc, though the names of the

NVmetes and Vangiones are there; but instead of the

Tribocci we have Civitas Argentoratum (Stmsr-

hwy), the chief place of the Tribocci. Ptolemy

makes Argentoratum a citv of the Vangiones. [G.L.]

TRl'BOLA (TorfdAa, App. Ilitp. 62, 63), a

I- *n of Lusitania, in the mountainous regions S. of

the Tagus, probably the modern Tretoau. [T.H.U.J

IfilbTLIUM. [TniLtniuM].

TRIBUNCI, a place in Gallia, which we may

anas to have been near Concordia, for Ammianus

\ri. 12), after speaking of tho battle near Slrau-

'tay. in which Chiwdomarius, king of the Alemunni,

'u defeated by Julian, says that the king hurried to

■« camp, which was near Concordia and Tribunci.

(at neither the site of Concordia nor of Tribunci is

main. [Coxcokdia.] [G. L.]

TKICARAHUM. [Pnuus, p. 602, a.]

IWCA&SES, a people of Gallia Lugdunensig.

PSn. ir. 18.) In Ptolemy (ii. 8. § 13) the name

rncasii (Tpmdoiot), and their city is Augustobona

Kirfoucritoro.). Tbey border on tho Parisii. The

une appears in the form Tricassini in Ammianus

tvi. I} and in an inscription. In the Notit. Provinc.

m name Civitas Tricassium occurs; and the name

the people has been transferred to the town, which

now Trope* on the Seine, the chief town of the

-ach department of Aube. Caesar does not men-  
>n the Tricmsses, and his silence has led to the

rmrture that in his time they were comprised

Hun the powerful state of the Senones. [G. L.]

TKICASTI'NI (T/mkootuw), a Gallic people

wren the Rhone and the Alps. Livy (v. 34)

-nDing the march of llellovesus and Ilia Galu  
bo Italy, says they came to the Tricastini: " The

pa next were opposed to them;" from which it is

rrwl that the Tricastini were near the Alps.

;t nothing exact can be inferred from the narrative,

'from the rat of this confuted chapter. In the

description of Hannibal's march (Liv. xxi. 34) it in

said that Hannibal, after settling the disputes of the

Allobroges, being now on his road to the Alps, did

not make his march straight forward, but turned to

the left into the territory of the Tricastini; and from

the country of the Tricastini he went through the

uttermost part of the territory of the Vocontii into

the country of the Tricorii, and finally reached the

Druentia (Durance.) It would be out of place to

examine this qnestion fully, for it wonld require

some pages to discuss the passages in Livy. He

means, however, to place the Tricastini somewhere

between the Allobroges and part of the border of the

Vocontlan territory. The capital of the Vocontii is

Dea Vocontiornm, or Die in the department of

Drome; and tbo conclusion is that tho Tricastini

were somewhere between tbo Isara (/aire) and the

Druna (Drome). This agrees with the position of

Augusta Tricastinnrum [At'OUSTA TiucAgTwo-

hum] as determined by the Itins.

Ptolemy (ii. 10. § 13) places the Tricastini east

of the Segallauni, whose capital is Valentia, and ho

names as the capital of the Tricastini a town

Noeomagus, which appears to be a different place

from Augusta Tricastinorum. D'Anville places the

Tricastini along the east bank of tho Rhone, north

of Arausio (Orange), a position which he fixes by

his determination of Augusta Tricastinorum: and he

adds, "that the name .of the Tricastini has teen

preserved pure in that of Tricastin." But the

Tricastini of Livy and Ptolemy are certainly not

where D'Anville places them. [G. L.]

TRICCA (TptKirn: £<A. Tpuwubi: Trikkala),

an ancient city of Thessaly in the district Histiaeotis,

stood upon the left bank of the Peneius, and near a

small stream named Lethaeus. (Strab. ix. p. 438,

xir. p. 647.) This city is said to have derived its

name from Tricca, a daughter of Peneius. (Steph.

B. i. v.) It is mentioned in Homer as subject to

Podaleirins and Machaon, the two sons of Asclepiua

or Aesculapius, who led the Triccaeans to the Trojan

War (Horn. /(. ii. 729, iv. 202); and it possessed a

temple of Axe Ic pi us, which was regarded as the moat

ancient and illustrious of all the temples of this god.

(Strab. ix. p. 437.) This temple was visited by tbo

sick, whose cures were recorded there, as in the

temples of Asclepius at Epidaurus and Cos. (Strab.

viii. p. 374.) There were probably physicians at­

tached to the temple; and Leake gives an inscription

in four elegiac verses, to the memory of a " god-like

physician named Cumber, by bis wife Andromache,''

which he found upon a marble in a bridge over the

ancient Lethaeus. (Northern Greece, vol. iv. p.

28 j.) In the edict published by Polysperchon and

the other generals of Alexander, after the death of

the latter, allowing the exiles from the different

Greek cities to return to their homes, those of Tricca

and of the neighbouring town of Pharcadon were

excepted for some reason, which is not recorded.

(Diod. xviii. 56.) Tricca was the first town in

Thessaly at which Philip V. arrived after his defeat

on the Aous. (Liv. xxxii. 13.) Tricca is also

mentioned by Liv. xxxvi. 13; Plin. iv. 8. s. 15;

Ptol. iii. 13. § 44; Them. OraL xxvii. p. 333.

Procopius, who calls the town Tricattus (Tpurdr-

tooi). says that it waa restored by Justinian (de

Atdif. iv. 3); but it is still called Tricca by Hierocles

(p 642) in the sixth century, and the form in Jus­

tinian may be a corruption. In the twelfth century

it already bears its modem name (TpuxaaAa, Anna

Cumn. v. p. 137, ed. Paris.; Kustath. ad IL it. |.

