48 INDIA. INDIA.

majority of subsequent geographers, from Ptolemy.

Subsequent to this date, there are few works which

rail within the range of classical geography, or

which have added any information of real value on

the nubject of India; while most of them have

borrowed from Ptolemy, whose comprehensive work

was soon a text-book in the hands of learned men.

From Agathemerus (at the end of the second century)

and Dionysius Periegctcs (towards the end of the

third century) soine few particulars may be gleaned:

— as for instance, from the latter, the establish­

ment of the Indo-Scythi along the banks of the

Indus, in Scmde and Guzerat; and, from a work

known by the name of Periplue Maria Erythraei

(the date of which, though late, is not certainly

determined), some interesting notices of the chores

of the Indian Ocean. Kestus Avienus, whose para-

]jhrase of Dionysius Perie^etea supplies some lacunae

in other parts of his work, adds nothing of interest

to his metrical account of Indian Geography.

Such may serve as a concise outline of the pro­

gress of knowledge in ancient times relative to India.

Before, however, we proceed to describe the country

itself under the various heads of mountains, rivers,

provinces, and cities, it will be well to say a few

words on the origin of the name India, with some

notice of the suWivisions which were in use among

the earlier geographers, but which we have not

thought it convenient in this place to perpetuate.

The names Indus, India, arc no doubt derived

from the Sanscrit appellation of the river, Sindliu,

which, in the plural furm, means also the people who

dwelt along its banks. The adjoining countries have

adopted this name, with slight modifications: thus,

Hani* is the form in the Zend or old Persian, lloddu

in the Hebrew (Either, i. 1, viii. 9). The Greek

langungto softened down the word by omitting the h,

hence "Mot, 'Irdia; though in some instances the

native name was preserved almost unchanged, as in

the 2ir0or of the I'eriplus Maris Erythraei. Pliny

bears testimony to the native form, when he says,

"Indus incolis Sin J us appellator" (vi. 20. s. 23).

The great divisions of India which have been

usually adopted are those of Ptolemy (vii. 1. § 1),

into,—(1) India intra Gangem, a vast district, which

was bounded, according to that geographer, on the

YV. by the Paropaniisadae, Arachosia, and Gedrosia;

on the N. by the Imaus, in the direction of the Sog-

diani and Sacae; on the E. by the Ganges, and on

the S. by a part of the Indian Ocean: and (2) India

extra Gangem (Ptol. vii. 2. § I), which was bounded

on the YY. by the Ganges; on the N. by Scythia and

Serica; on the E. by the Sinae, and by a line extended

from their country to the McydAot mJAs-uv (flulfof

Siam); and on the S. by the Indian Ocean, and a line

drawn from the island of Menothias (I'tol. vii. 2.

§ I), whence it appears that Ptolemy considered that

tho Ganges flowed nearly due N. and S. We have

considered that this division is too arbitrary to be

adopted here; we merely state it as the one proposed

by Ptolemy and long current among geographers.

The later ecclesiastical writers made use of other

terms, as 1) Iroiriom "lriia, in which they included

era Arabia (Socrat H. E. i. 19; Theud. i. 23;

Theoph. i. 35), and *j '"X^'l "I»*a (Suuxnen, ii.

23).

The principal mountains of India (considered as a

whole) were: — the eastern purtionof the Pamjjainisus

(or Hindu-Etui), the lawns (Haiumra), and the

KmMus (now known by the generic name nf the

Himalaya.) To the extreme K. wcic the Muntes

gemanthini, the boundary of the land of the Stoat,

the Montes Dnmaasi, and the Bepyrrhus M. (probably

the present Xaraka M.). An extension of the SL

Damassi is the Maeandrus M. (now J/uis-Ja'm).

In India intra Gangem Ptolemy mentions many

mountains, the names of which can with difficulty be

supplied with their modern representatives: as the

Orudii M., in the S. extremity of the land between

the Tyndis and the Chaberus; the U lent us M., to

the N. of them; the Adisathrus M.; the Bittigo M.

(probably the range now known as the GhdU). and

the M. Vindius (unquestionably the present V'vtd-

hya), which extend NE. and SW. along the N. bank

of the Nerbudtla; M. Sardonix (probably the present

Saulpura); and JI. Apocopa (perhaps the present

AravtUi).

The principal promontories in India are:—in the

extreme E., Promontorium Magnum, the western

side of the Sinus Magnus; Malaei Colon, on the S.

coast of the golden peninsula; Promontorium Aun-ae

Chersonesi, the southern termination of the Sinus

Sabaracus, on the western side of the Cbersonesus;

Cory or Calligicum, between the S. Argarico* and

the S. Colchicus, near the SW. end of the peninsula

of Ilindostan; Comaria (now C. Comorin), the most

southern point of liindoitdn; Calae Carias (or Calli-

caris), between the towns Anamagara and Muriri*;

Simylla (or Setnylla, the southern end of the S.

Barygazenus, perhaps the present C. SL John), and

Maleunu

In the same direction from E. to W. are the fol­

lowing gulfs and bays:—the Sinus Magnus (now Gm/f

of Siam); S. Perimulicus, and Saharicus, on the K.

and W. side of the Chersonesus A urea; S. Gangeti-

cus {liny of Bengal), S. Argaricus, opposite the X.

end of Taprobane (probably Palis Hay); S. Col­

chicus (Bay of ifanaar); S. Barygaxenus (Gulf uf

Cambay), and S. Canthi (most likely the Uvlj' of

Cutch).

The rivers of India are very numerous, and many

of them of great size. The most important (fnau

E. to W.) are the Dorias (Salren f) and Duanas

(the Irrawaddy), the Chrysoana, Besynga, the

Tocosanna (probably the present Arrakan). and the

Catabeda (now Curmtui); the Ganges, with many

tributaries, themselves large rivers. [Gamoks.]

Along the W. side of the Bay of Bengal are the

Adainas (Brahmini), Dosaron (Mahanddi), Maraolus

(Godtivdri), Tyndis (Kutna), and the Chaberis car

Chaberus (the Cdveri). Along the shores of the

Indian Ocean are the Nanaguna (7orfu), the Na-

madus(A*armad(f oriYeroiKiaVi)land lastly the Indus,

with its several tributaries. [Indus.]

The towns in India known to the ancienta were

very numerous; yet it is remarkable that but few

details have been given concerning them in the

different authors of whose works fragments still

remain. Generally, these writers seem to have been

content with a simple list of the names, adding,

in sonic instances, that such a place was an im­

portant mart for commerce. The probability ia. that,

even so late as Ptolemy, few cities had reached suf­

ficient importance to command the productions of aa

extensive surrounding country; and that, in fad,

with one or two exceptions, the towns which be and

others enumerate were little more than the head

places of small districts, and in no sense capitals «sf

great empires, such as Ghazna, Delhi, and Calcutta

have become in later periisls of Indian history. Be­

ginning from ill* extreme E., the principal stales and

towns mentioned ui the ancient writers are: PerinuiU

