VENUSIA. VEItCELLAE. 1277

suited strength with a fresh body of colonists.

Liv. xxxi. 49.) From this time Venusia seems to

lire always continued to be a flourishing town and

t« of the most considerable places in this part of

uly. It bnre an important part in the Social War,

stmg early joined in the outbreak, and became one

t the principal strongholds of the allies in the south

f Italy. (Appian, B. C. i. 39, 42.) Iu the second

car of the war its territory was ravaged by the

Ionian praetor Cosconius, but we do not learn that

be city itself fell into his hands, (lb. 52.) At all

tents it did not saner severely, as it is afterwards

.rationed by Appian as one of the most flourishing

ities of Italy '.Pi. ir. 3) ; and Strabo also notices

: as one of the few cities in this region which

'tinned their consideration in his time (v. p.

50). It received a colony of veterans nnder the

riumvirate (Appian, B. C. iv. 3; Zuinpt, de Colon.

332), and seems to have retained the rank of a

'..lotus under the Empire, as we find it bearing that

Kignatiun both in Pliny and in inscriptions. (Plin.

i. U.S. 16 ; Orell. Inter. 867; Mutnnuen, Inter.

i. If. 73S, 745.) Its position ou the Appian Way

useless contributed to its prosperity, and it is men-

med more than once by Cicero as a customary

dting-place in proceeding from Home to Brundu-

mn. (Cic. «./ v..*.. mi. .*>.) It appears in-

red that the great orator had himself a villa there,

lone of his letters is dated "de Venusino" (ad

am. xir. 20). But the chief interest of Venusia is

ndnubtedly derived from its having been the birth-

lice of Horace, who was born there in the consul-

np of L. Manlius Torquatus and L. Aurelius Cotta,

. c. 65. (H«r. Carm. iii. 21. 1.) The works of

■ poet abound in allusions to the neighbourhood of

is native city, the fountain of Bandusia, the forests

Mount Yultur, &c. But it docs not appear that

I ever resided there in the latter years of his life,

iring lost his paternal estate, which was confiscated

i the civil wars. (Id. Kp. ii. 2.)

We hear nothing of Venusia under the Roman

mpire, but it is certain from the Liber Colouiarum,

huh mentions it among the Civitates Apuliae, and

in the Itineraries, that it continued to exist as a

(J, snd apparently one of the most considerable in

iu part of Italy. (1'tol. iii. 1. § 73 ; Lib. Colon.

;> 210, 261; Itm. Ant. pp. 104. 113, 121 ; Tab.

tut.) This is further confirmed by inscriptions,

one of which it is called "splendida civitas Yenu-

timim." (Momiusen, /. R. A'. 706.) It retained

■ same consideration throughout the middle ages,

II is still Ml episcopal city with about 6000 inha­

lants. Its antiquities have been illustrated with a

vifusion of erudition by Italian writers, but it has

■ ancient remains of much interest; though frag-

Mits of ancient edifices, mosaic pavements, &c.

i'e been found on the site, as well as numerous in-

>i prions. These last have been collected and pub-

Ued by Mons. Lupoli, in his Marmora Venutina

COD! OF VENUSIA.

(added as an appendix to the Iter f'envtinum, 4to-

Keapoli, 1797), and more recently by Mummsen, in

his Interiptionet Uegni Keapolitani (pp. 39—48).

Concerning the antiquities of Venusia in general,

see the work of Lupoli above quoted, and that of

Cimaglia (Antiquitatet Venurinae, 4to. Neapol.

1757.) [E. H. B.]

VEPITENUM or VIPITEXUM, a place in the

district occupied by the Venostes in Rhaelia, between

Veldidena and Tridentum. (It. Ant. pp. 275, 280;

Tab. Petit.) Its modem representative is, in all

probability, the town of Sterzing on the Kitueh, at

the foot of the Brenner. [ L. S. |

VERAGRI (Ovdpaypoi). The Verngri are placed

by Caesar (ii. G. iii. 1,6) in the Valait of Swit­

zerland between the Nantnates and the Seduni,

[Xantuates; SedUSI]. Their town was Octodurus

(Martigtiy), whence the Yeragri are called Octodu-

renses by Pliny [OCTODUBVS]. Dion Cassius

(xxxix. 5), using Caesar as he generally used him,

says that the Yeragii extended from the territory

of the Allobroges and the Leiiian lake to the Alps;

which is not true. Strabo (iv. p. 204) mentions the

Yaragri, as he calls them, between the Caturiges

and the Nantuatae ; and Pliny (iii. 20) between the

Seduni and the Sala-si: the Salassi are on the

Italian side of the Alps in the Vol ./ Iutta. Livy

(xxi. 38) places the Veragri among the Alps and

on the road to the pass of the Pennine Alps, or the

Great St. Bernard, which is correct. He says that

the pass was ireupied by half German tribes. [G. L.]

VERBANL'S LACUS (i) ObtpSar6s Ai>nr. l-ago

Maggiore), one of the principal lakes of Northern

Italy, formed by the river Ticinus, where it first

issues from the valleys of the Alps. (Plin. iii. 19.

s. 24.) It is the largest of the three great lakes of

Northern Italy, whence its modern name of Lago

Maggiort; though Virgil appears to have considered

the Larius as the largest, as be calls it, " Te, Lari

maxime," and singularly enough does not mention

the Verbanus at all. (Georo. ii. 159.) Strabo, by

a strange mistake, describes the river Addua as

flowing from the Lake Yerbauus, and the Ticinus

from the Larius (iv. p. 209): this may, perhaps, be

an error of the copyists, but is more probably an ac­

cidental blunder of the author. He gives the

length of the lake at 400 stadia, or 40 geog. miles,

which is somewhat below the truth, the actual

length being 46 geog. miles: its breadth does net ex­

ceed 4 or 5 miles, except in one part, where it ex­

pands to a width of from 8 lo 10 miles. [E. II. B.]

VERBICAE or YERB1CES (OMptiKcu or Oiie>-

Sorts, Ptol. iv. 1. § 10), a people of Mauretanut

Tingitana, [T. H. I).]

VERBIGENUS PAGUS. [Helvktii, Vol. L

p. 1041.]

VEHBIXUM, in Gallia, is placed by the Itins. on

a road from Bagacum (Bavai) to Durocortorum

(Iieimt). Durouum is between Bagacum and Ver-

binuin [Dironum]. All the several distances

between Bagacum and Durocortorum do not agree in

the Anlonine ltiu. and the Table. The sum total of

these distances in the Table is 53 M. P., and the

lliiL, though it makes the several distances amount

to 63 M. P., still gives the sum total at 53 M. P.

But these must be Gallic leagues, aa D'Anville

shows. He supposes Verbinum to be Yervint, which

in fact is the same name as Verbinum. The table

writes it Vironum. I'errin* is in the department

of Aitne, about 20 miles XE. of I.aon. .<!. L.J

VEHCELLAE (Oi)^a«AAm, I'toL iii. L | 36;

