1104 TARRACO. TARRACINA.

the most important of the maritime towns subject

to Rome. Its position on the Appian Way, which

hera first touched on the sea (Strab. v. p. 233; Hor.

Sat. i. 5. 2G), doubtless contributed to its prosperity;

and an artificial port seems to have in some decree

supplied the want of a natural harbour. (Liv.

xxvii. 4.) In u military point of view also its posi­

tion was important, as commanding the passage of

the Appian Way, and the narrow defile of Lautulae.

Xwhich was situated a short distance from the city

on the side of Fundi. (Liv. xxii. 15.) [Lau­

tulae.]

Under the Roman Republic Tarracina seems to

have continued to be a considerable and flourishing

town. Cicero repeatedly notices it as one of the

customary halting-placas on the Appian Way, and

for the same reason it is mentioned by Horace on

his journey to RrunduMttm. (Cic. de Orat, ii. 59.

ml Fain. vii. 23. nd Att. vii. 5; Hor. Sat. i. 5.

26; Appian, B. C. iii. 12; Val. Max. viii. 1. § 13 )

At the outbreak of the civil war between Caesar

and Pompey, Tarracina was occupied by the latter

with three cohorts under the praetor Kutilitis

Lupus, but they abandoned their post, when Pompey

withdrew to Brandusiura. (Caes. B. C. i. 24; Cic.

ad Att. viii. 11, b.) Again, during the civil war

between Vespasian and Vitellius, Tarracina w:is

evidently regarded as a place of importance in a

military point of view, and was occupied by the

partisans of Vespasian, but was wrested from thorn

by L, Vitcllius just before the death of his brother.

(Tac.///.sr. iii. 57, 76.77.) It was at Tarracina

also that the funeral convoy of Gennanicus was met

by his cousin DrusUS and the chief personages of

Rome. (Id. Ann. iii. 2.) The neighbourhood

seems to have been a favourite site for villas under

the Roman Empire: among others the Emperor

Domitiaa had a villa there (Martial, v. 1. 6); and

it was at another villa near the town, on the road to

Fundi, tbat the emperor Galba was born. (Suet.

Galb. 4.) In addition to the other natural advan­

tages of the situation, there existed mineral springs

in the neighbourhood, which seem to have been

much frequented. (Martial, v. 1. 6, x. 51.8.) The

important position of Tarracina doubtless prevented

its falling into decay as long as the Western Empire

subsisted. Its name.is found in the Itineraries as a

M ci vitas" {I tin. Ant. p. 187; I tin. Bier. p. 611),

and even after the fall of the Roman dominion it

appears as a fortress of importance during the

Gothic wars. (Procop. B. G. ii. 2, 4, &c.)

The position of Tarracina at the extremity of

the Pomptine Marshes, just where a projecting

ridge of the VoUcian mountains runs down to the

sea. and separates the marshy tract on the W. from

a similar but much smaller tract on the E., which

extends from thence towards Fundi, must in all ages

have rendered it a place of importance. The ancient

city stood on the hill above the marshes. Horace

distinctly describes it as standing on lofty rocks, which

were conspicuous afar, from their white colour:—

"Impositum saxis late candentibus Anxur"

(Hor. Sat, i. 5. 26); and the same circumstance is

alluded to by other Latin poets. (Lucan, iii. 84;

Sil. Ital. viii. 392.) Livy also describes the original

Volscian town as " loco alto situro " (v. 12), though

it extended also down the slope of the hill towards

the marshes (u urbs pronain paludes," it. 59). At

a later period it not only spread itself down the hill,

but occupied a considerable level at the foot of it

(as the modern city still does), in tse l

hood of the port. This but must alwiys bin an

in great part artificial, but theeib-teortofsn

port at Tarracina is noticed by Lirj as eant s

b. c. 210. (Liv. xxvii. 4.) It **» i

enlarged and reconstructed under the Bjcas Ebv

pire, probably by Trajan, and aeain roMsi kf

Antoninus Pius. (Capit. Ant P. 8.) Its

arc still distinctly visible, and the vbt4e txmsS

the ancient basin, surruunded by a maacw i

may be clearly traced, though tie grtaier pan a

it is now filled with sand. Considerable |

the ancient walls also still reins.n,

partly in the polygonal style, partly is 1st i

recent style known to the Romans a* ■ ess* i

turn." Several ancient tombs and ruins <rf i

buildings of Roman date are Mill extant is 1

modern city and along the line of the Vis i

The modern cathedral stands oq the d s

ancient temple, of which only the suUtrtrafcsal

two columns remain. This is generally aid, j

though on very uncertain autbori:y, a leapt!!

Apollo. The most celebrated of the tcsrftaal

Tarracina was, however, that of Jupiter. «La*« I

noticed by Livy (xxviii. 11, xL 45), taa *t I

especial worship of this deity in the Volscas ejf 1

under the title of Jupiter Anxurus is aUucr: i*W

Virgil (Aen. vii. 799). He was repre*eai«dl*w>|

are told by Somas) as a beautiful yyuia. att it j

figure of the deity corresponding to this jfsxjtsl j

is found on a Roman coin of the Vit>taa utsn

(Eckbel, vol. v. p. 340.) It is probata tsst#fl

temple was situated in the richest part d till

city, very probably in the ancient citadel, »ta*tw

cupied the summit of a hill above the Ion. *tawl

remains of its walls and substructions an t^ieVl

tant.

Tarracina was distant by the Ma Apf** G r^W

from Rome, and 18 from the Forum Afi« (tM

Ant p. 107; Itm. Bier. p. 611; W< u Bm

Kamp. p. 68.) Three miles from tneeirf.sifl

side of the Via Appia, as well as of the ca!*]**nu

was frequently used by travellers, was tbefenlB

of Feronia, celebrated by Horace, together na1^|

sacred grove attached to it, [Fekosia,] !TJil|n

TA'RRACO (Ta^av^, VuA. u. 6. § \'>\m

ancient city of Spain, probably founded by 'J> flsIB

nicians, who called it Tarchon, which, mwaanH

Bochart, means "a citadel." ThU nasw *■s»*]

bably derived from its Mt nation cn a it* ■

between 700 and BOO feel above the J

we find it characterised as M arce peces* Ts

(Auson. Clar. Urb. 9; cf. Mart. x. ItH.)

seated on the river Sulcia, oo a bay et tie 1

Internum, between tlie Pyrenees and uW

iberus. (Mela, ii. 6; Plin. iiL 3- a 4)

xxii. 22) mentions a " portds Tarrocoui*,* »s4i

cording to Eratosthenes {op. Strab. iii. p. I*

liad a naval station or roads (roMrroi;**);

Artemid<>rus (o/>. Strab. L c.; Polyh. iu.'

with more probability tbat it had none, ad

even an anchoring place; and Strata hun

it aV^ft-os. Tins answers better to

condition; for though a niole i

15th century with the materials of tbes

phitheatre, and another subsequently byi

man named John Smith, it still

protection for shipping. (Fords

Spam, p. 222.) Tarraco lay on th»

along the S. coast of Spain, (//m. AmC f

399,448,452.) ll was"

