SENA. 9C3 SENONES.

It nVcrSena, alluded to by Silius Italicusand Lu-

, mint be the small stream now called the Netola

ivjcll which falls into the sea at Sinigaglia. (Sil.

. rE 453; Lucan, ii. 407.) [K. H. B.]

iXA (Salvo, PuJ.: Eth. Senensis: Siena), a

tf Kiniris, sometimes called Skka Julia, to

xriuh it from the city of the same name on

Adriatic. It was situated nearly in the heart

itnmt, shout 28 miles E. of Volaterrae and 40

f fkrratia. There is no reason whatever to

that there was an Etruscan city on the

awl no allusion to its existence occurs before

BUblubment of the Roman colony. Even the

flf this is not accurately known; but it is pro-

i fran the epithet of Julia that it was founded

» by Caesar himself or by the Triumvirate in

tmnor. It is singular that its name is not

i m the Liber Coloniarum; but its colonial

is attested by Pliny, who calls it "colonia

sw.*aa well as by Tacitus. (Plin. iii. 5. s.

v. Hist it. 45.) It is subsequently mentioned

usrny, as well as in the Tabula, which places

• iine of mad from Florentia to Clusium.

. m. 1. § 49; Tab. Prut.) But it seems never

it turn a place of much importance in ancient

\ sad it was not till the middle ages that it

u> be one of the first cities of Tuscany. It

remains of antiquity. (Dennis's Etruria,

i p. 135.) [E. H.B.]

JiA INSULA, in Gallia. On this island, which

ipiwte to the coast of the Osismii, was an oracle

•silic goddess. Nine virgins named Gal license

ijnue, ed. I. Vossiu.-) had the care of the

They could raise storms by their verses,

> themselves into beasts, heal diseases, and

I the future, but they were only propitious to

i «bo came to consult them. (Mela, iii. 6.)

> th« inland of Sein. incorrectly called on the

is*e da Saints, which is at the entrance of the

Ixmarmenez, and separated from a point of

a Uit coast of Britany (Pointe Hot) by a

'channel. D'Anville supposes that this may

vUnj which Strabo places opposite the mouth

Loire. This island was inhabited only by

wtio were possessed by Dionysus. They

! iu man toenter their island; but so far from

t their virginity, they used to visit the men

mainland. These two stories are very dif-

Mrabu names his island that of the Nam-

■ Groskurd (Strab. Traiul. i. p. 198) has it;

t name is Sammies in the common texts of

This seems to be the same island that

u ipeak* of (Perieg. 571) as being visited

•jmm of the Ainnitae for the pin-pose of

■■■-X the rites of Bacchus. D'Anville further

bW Pliay (ir. 16) may be speaking of Sena

* nentions after the islands which an near  
ut. *xa*nbu, or Amnis, as some MSS. have it,

ar.iM, which is evidently Uxantis or Ouu-

Baa, as the Maritime I tin. names it, is meu-

bm with Uxjsntia. [G. L.]

1A (Sola, PtoL ii. 1G. (17.) § 2), a Roman

« the coast of Liburnia (" Colonia Senensis,"

. hr 45), and on the road from Aquileia to

(/bis. AnL p. 273.) It had a harbour.

Pirn. m. 21. a. 25; Geogr. Kuv. iv. 31;

'nit) Variously identified with '/.rug or

[T. H. D.]

"jMAGUS. in Gallia Narbonensis, is men-

the Table, and placed north of Avenio

»\ oo a road along the east side of the

Rhone. Some geographers guess that it may be

near the Pont St Esprit. [G. L.]

SE'NONES (Strom, Senum, Steph. B. t. v.).

Polybius(ii. 17) names the Italian Senones, STjrtivtr.

The Roman poets make the penultima short:—

"Ut Braccntorum pueri Senonumque minores."

(Juv. viii. 234.)

An absurd explanation of the name is quoted by Festua

(». r. Senones) and by ServiuB (ad Am. viii. 656).

The Senones were one of the great Celtic nations

who bordered on the Belgae. (Caes. B. G. ii. 2.)

They were north-west of the Acini and bordered on

them. Their capital was Agedincum (Sens), on the

right hank of the Yonne, which is a branch of the

Seine. (Ptol. ii. 8. $ 12.) The Senones are in the

Lngdunensis of Ptolemy and Pliny. Besides Age­

dincum there were in the country of the Senones,

Autissiodurum (Aweerre) and Melodunnm (J/e/un)

on the Seine not far from Paris, which shows that

their territory extended from the neighbourhood of

Parit along the Seine and along the Vonne to the

borders of the small nation of the Mandubii [Man-

dubii], whose town was Alesia, and to the (orders of

the Lingones, The railroad from Paris to Dijon,

which passes near Mtlvn, Fontainebleau, Sent,

Joigny, St. Ftorentin, Toimerre on the Armaneon,

a branch of the Yonne, runs through the 'country of

the Senones. Between St. Florentin and Flogny,

which is about half-way between St. Florentin and

7Wierre. extends a vast plain, level as theses, fer­

tile, and in summer covered with wheat. A large part

of the territory of the Senones is a fertile country.

In seems to have comprehended the dioceses of Sent

and A uxerrt. Besides Melodunum and Agedincum,

Caesar mentions Vellaunodunum as a town of the

Senones (vii. 11), on the side towards the Camntes.

The Scnones were at first well disposed to Cjiesar

(B. G. ii. 2), probably through fear of their neigh­

bours, the Btlgae and the German people north of

the Mane. Caesar had given them Cavarinus for

a king, but the Senones expelled him (v. 54); and

when the Roman proconsul ordered the senate of the

Senones to come to him, they refu-ed. In the spring

of B. c. 53 Caesar summoned the states of Gallia to

a meeting, but the Senones, Camutes, and Treviri

would not come (vi. 3), upon which he transferred

the meeting of the states to Lutetia Parisiorum. He

says that the Parian bordered on the Senones, and

** within the memory of their fathers they had united  
tlieir state with that of the Senones;" but he does

not explain the nature of this union. He marched

from Lutetia (Parit) into the country of the Senones,

which presents no difficulties for an anny. The

Senones yielded in spite of Acco, who was the leader

in the revolt; and Caesar took with him Cavarinus

and the cavalry of the Senones, in which force it is

probable that they were strong, as their country is

well adapted for grazing and corn. At the close of

the year Caesar whipjied Acco to death, anil quar­

tered six of his legions at Sent for the winter (vi.

44). In B. c. 52 the Senones sent 12,000 men with

the rest of the Gallic forces to attack Caesar before

Alesia (vii. 75). The Senones seem to have given

Caesar no more trouble; but in n. c. 51 Dnippes, a

Senon, at the head of a number of desperate men, was

threatening the Provincia. Drappes was caught and

starved liimself to death. (B. G. viii. 30,44 ) [G.L.}

SENONES (Stjpwcci). a nation of Gaulish origin,

which was settled in Italy, on the coast of the

Adriatic, extending from the river Acsis (Etino),

3 Q S

