LEMOVICES. 15? LEONTES

mentioned by Pliny; and Dr. Hunt thinks that they

are probably those of the citadel of Uephaestias.

The chief production of the bland, was a red

earth called terra Lcmnia or sigillata, which was

employed by the ancient physicians as a remedy for

wounds and the bites of serpents; and which is still

much valued by the Turks and Greeks for its sup­

posed medicinal virtues. It is dug out of a hill,

made into small balls, and stamped with a seal con­

taining Arabic characters.

The ordinary modern name of the island, is Stali-

mene (tls ray Atfjayov), though it is also called by

its ancient name.

There were several small islands near Lemnos, of

which the most celebrated was Ciikyse (Xpva-tj),

where Philoctetes was said to have been aban­

doned by the Greeks. According to Pausanias, this

Uiand was afterwards swallowed up by the sea, and

»no:her appeared in its stead, to which the name of

fiiera was siven. (Eustath ad Horn. II. ii. p. 330;

Appian. Mitkr. 77; Paus. viii. 33. §4.)

(Rhode. Res Lentmeaej VratisL 1829; Hunt, in

Walpoles Travels, p. 54, seq.)

COW OF HEPHAESTUS IN LEMNOS.

LEMOVICES(Af/i&uccs,Strab. p.190; AfMoufcoi,

PtoL ii. 7. § 10), a Gallic people who were bounded

bj the Arverni on the east, the Bituriges Cubi and

the lactones on the north, and the Santones on the

wert. Their chief town was Augustoritum or

L'uhogts. [Augi-stokitum.] The diocese of Li-

tn>»j<4, comprehending the diocese of Tulle, which

baa been separated from it, represents the limits of

the Lemorices; but the diocese of Limoges extends

somewhat beyond the limits of the old province of

Limousin, which derives its name from the Lemo­

vices, and into that province which was called La

Marcke. An inscription in Gruter,found at Rancon,

hi the diocese of Limoges, proves that there was

included in the territory of the Lemovices a people

nx-ned Andecainuieii.tes; and another Gallic inscrip-

ti'.<i shows that Mars was called Camulus. Camu-

b^enus was a Gallic name (Caes. B. G. vii. 59, 62.)

Cawar (B. O. vii. 4) enumerates the Lemo­

vices among the peoples whom Yercingetorix stirred

ap against the Romans in b. c. 52: they arc placed

in th* text between the Aulerci and Andes. The

Uawrices sent 10,(X)O men to assist their coun­

trymen at the siege of Alesia (B. G. vii. 75)

But in the same: chapter (vii. 75) the Lemovices

an again mentioned: "univcrsis civitatibus quae

Oceanum attingnnt quae^ue eorum consuetudiue Ar-

a-Ticae appellant ur, quo sunt in numero Curioso-

li>*, li«loni"i>. Ainbibari, Caletes, Osismi, Lemovices,

\«ifti. Unelli, sex millia." Here the Lemovices are

placed in a different position, and are one of the

Arnwric States. [Armoimcak Civtt/atks.] Some

critics erase the name Lemovices from Caesar's text;

Ut there is good authority for it. Davis remarks

(Caea. Ondendorp, i. p. 427), that all the MSS.

(ktinwn to him) have the reading Lemovices, and

that it occurs also in the Greek translation. He

*1m observes, that as there were three Aulerci

! An.Kiiei], so there might he two Lemovices; and

we may add that there were two Bituriges, Bi­

turiges Cubi and Bituriges Vivian; and Volcae

Arecoinici and Volcae Tectosages. If the text of

Caesar then is right, there were Armoric Lemovices

as well as the Lemovices of the Limousin; and we

must either keep the name as it is, or erase it. The

emendation of some critics, adopted by D'Anville,rests

on no foundation. Walckenaer finds in the district

which he assigns to the Lemovices Armoricani, a

place named La Limousiniere, in thearrondissement

of Nantes, between Mackecoul, Nantes and Saint-

I^eger; and he considers this an additional proof

in favour of a conjecture about the text of Ptolemy

in the matter of the Lemovices; as to which con­

jecture his own remarks may be read. (Geog. &c.

des Gaules, vol. i. p. 369.) [G. L]

LEMO'VII, a German tribe, mentioned by Tacitus

(Germ. 43) as living with the Rugii on the coast of

the Ocean, that is, the Baltic Sea. Tacitus men­

tions three peculiarities of this and the other tribes

in* those districts (the modern Pommerania),—

their round shields, short swords, and obedience to­

wards their chiefs. (Comp. Zeuss, die Denfsehent

p. 155.) [L. S.]

LE'NTIA (Lim), a small place in Noricum on

the Danube, on the road from Laureacum. Ac­

cording to the Notitia Imperii, from which alone wo

learn anything about this place, it appears that a

prefect of the Legio Italiea, and a body of horse

archers, were stationed there. (Comp. Gruter,

Inscript. p. 541. 10; Muchar, Noricum, i. p.

284.) [L.S.]

LENTIENSES, the southernmost branch of the

Alemanni, which occupied both the northern and

southern borders of the Lacus Brigantinus. They

made repeated inroads into the province (if Rhaetia,

but were defeated by the emperor Constantius.

(Amm. Marc. xv. 4, xxxi. 10; Zeuss, die Deutschen,

p. 309, foil) [L. S.]

LE'NTULAE or LE'NTOLAE, a place in Upper

Pannonia, on the principal highroad leading through

that country, and 32 Botnan miles to the south-east

of Jovia. (ft. Ant. p. 130; It. UUros. p. 562;

Geogr. Rav. iv. 19.) Ptolemy (ii. 15. § 5) men­

tions a town \evTovZov in the same neighbourhood,

whicli is perhaps only a slip for AeVrouAuv. Some

identify the place with the modern Bertzentze, and

others with Lrttichany. [L. S.]

LEO FLUVIUS. [Leontks.]

LEON (Ae'tof &Kpa.) 1. A point on the S. coast

of Crete, now Punta di Liomla. (Ptol. iii. 17. § 4;

Hock, Kreta, vol. i. pp. 394,413.) [E. B. J.]

2. A promontory of Kuboea, S. of Eretria, on

the koA*j aKT-fi. (Ptol. iii. 15. § 24.)

3. A place on the E. coast of Sicily, near Syra­

cuse, where both the Athenians and Romans landed

when they were going to attack that city. (Time.

vi. 97; Liv. xxiv. 39.) [Syuacusae.]

LE0X1CA. [Edktani.]

LEONTES (A«oftos trordymv inSoKai), a river of

Phoenicia, placed by Ptolemy between Berytus and

Sidon (v. 15, p. 137); consistently with which

notice Strabo places Leontopolis between the same

two towns, the distance between which he states at

400 stadia. He mentions no river of this name,

but the Tamyras (6 To^upas irorau,6s), the grove of

Aesculapius, and Leontopolis, whicli would doubtless

correspond with the Lion river of Ptolemy; for it is

obviously an error of Pliny to place "Leontos oppi-

dum ° between ''Berytus" and "Flu men Lycos"

(v. 20). Now, as the Tamyras of Strabo is clearly

