LATIUM. LATIUM. 139

Rome which led to the abolition of the kingly power,

or from some other cause, we know not. The Latin

cities became wholly independent of Borne; and

though the war which was marked by the great

battle at the lake Regillua has been dressed up in

the legendary history with so much of fiction as to

render it difficult to attach any historical value to the

traditions connected with it, there is no reason to doubt

the fact that the Latins had at this time shaken off

tbe supremacy of Rome, and that a war between the

two powers was the result. Not long after this, in

b. c. 493, a treaty was concluded with them by

>p. Cassias, which determined their relations with

Home for a long period of time. (Liv. ii. S3; Dio-

njs. ri. 96; Cic. pro Balh. 23.)

By the treaty thus concluded the Romans and

Latins entered into an alliance as equal and inde­

pendent states, both for offence and defence: all

booty or conquered territory was to be shared be­

tween them; and there is much reason to believe

that the supreme command of the allied armies was

to be held in alternate years by the Roman and

Latin generals, (Dionys. L c; Nieb. vol. ii. p. 40.)

Tbe Latin cities, which at this time composed the

league or confederacy, were thirty in number: a list

of th»m is given by Dionysius in another passage

(v. 61). but which, in all probability, was derived

from the treaty in question (Niebubr, vol. ii. p. 23).

They were:—Ardea, Alicia, Bovillae, Bubentum,

Cimicnlum, Carventum, Circeii, Corioli, Corbio,

Cora. Fortinei (?), Gabii, Laurentuin, Laviniam,

Lanavium, Labicurn, Nomentum, Norba, Praeneste,

Pedum, Querouetulam, Satricum, Scaptia, Setia,

TVlltnse, Tibur, Tusculum, Toleria, Tricrinum (?),

Velitiae. The number thirty appears to have been

a recognised and established one, not dependent upon

accidental changes and fluctuations: the cities which

composed the old league under tbe supremacy of Alba

are also represented as thirty in number (Dionys.

in. 34), and the "populi Albenses," which formed

the smaller and closer union nnder the same head,

were, according to Pliny's list, jnst thirty. It is

therefore quite in accordance with the usages of

ancient nations that tbe league when formed anew

*bould consist as before of thirty cities, though  
these could not have been the tame as previously

composed it.

The object cf this alliance between Rome and

Laiirnn was u> doubt to oppose a barrier to the

rawdly advancing power of the Aequians and Vol-

■cun*. With the same view the Hernicans were

s"oo after admitted to participate in it (b. c. 486);

asl from this time for more than a century the

Latins continued to be the faithful allies of Rome,

avl abared alike in her victories and reverses during

her lnnj and arduous struggle with their warlike

n^chbonr*. (Liv. ri. 2.) A shock was given to

tbe?* ftiendly relations by the Gaulish War and the

capture of Rome in B. c. 390: the calamity which

tien befel the city appears to have incited some of

ber nearest neighbours and most faithful allies to

take op arms against her. (Varr. L. L. vi. 18;

Liv. vi. 2.) The Latins and Hernicans are repre­

sented as not only refusing their contingent to the

Rutim armies, but supporting and assisting the

Vrjbrians against them; and though they still

a* id*-d as long as possible an open breach with

Eome, it ;eems evident that the former close alliance

l»tw.»n them was virtually at an end. (Liv. vi. 6,

7,10,11, 17.) But it would appear that the bond

«f onion of tbe Latin League itself was, by this time,

very much weakened. The more powerful cities

are found acting with a degree of independence to

which there is no parallel in earlier times: thus, in

B. c. 383, the Lanuvians formed an alliance with

the Volscians, and Praeneste declared itself hostile

to Rome, while Tusculum, Gabii, aud Labicurn con­

tinued on friendly terms with the republic. (Id.

vi. 21.) In b. c. 380 the Romans were at open war

with the Praenestines, and in b. c. 360 with the

Tiburtines, but in neither instance do the other cities

of Lutium appear to have joined in the war. (hi.

vi. 27—29, vii. 10—12, 18, 19.) The repeated

invasions of the Gauls, whose armies traversed the

Latin territory year after year, tended to increase

the confusion and disorder: nevertheless the Latin

League, though much disorganised, was never

broken up; and the cities composing it still con­

tinued to hold their meetings at the Lucus Feren-"

tinae, to deliberate on their common interests and

policy. (Id. vii. 25.) In it. c. 358 the leaguo

with Rome appears to have been renewed upon the

same terms as before; and in that year the Latins,

for the first time after a long interval, sent their

contingent to the Roman armies. (Liv. vii. 12.)

At length, in b. c. 340, the Latins, who had

adhered faithfully to their alliance during the First

Samnite War, appear to have been roused to a

sense of the increasing power of Rome, and became

conscious that, under the shadow of an equal alliance,

they were gradually passing into a state of depen­

dence and servitude. (Id. viii. 4.) Hence, after

a vain appeal to Rome for the establishment of a.

more equitable arrangement, the Latins, as well as

the Volscians, took part with the Campanians in the

war of that year, and shared in their memorable

defeat at the foot of Mount Vesuvius. Even on

this occasion, however, the councils of the Latins

were divided: the Laurcntcs at least, and probably

the Lavinians also, remained faithful to the Roman

cause, while Signia, Setia, Circeii, and Velitrae,

though regarded as Roman colonies, were among the

most prominent in the war. (Id. viii. 3—11.) The

contest was renewed the next year with various suc­

cess; but in n. c. 338 Furins Camillas defeated

the forces of the Latins in a great battle at Pedum,

while the other consul, C. Maenius, obtained a not

less decisive victory on the river Astura. The

struggle was now at an end; the Latin cities sub­

mitted one after the other, and the Roman senate

pronounced separately on the fate of each. The

first great object of the arrangements now mado

was to deprive the Latins of all bonds of national or

social unity: for this purpose not only were they

prohibited from holding general councils or assem­

blies, but the several cities were deprived of the

mutual rights of "conuubium" and " commcrcium,"

so as to isolate each little community from its neigh­

bours. Tibur and Praeneste, the two most powerful

cities of the confederacy, and which had taken a

prominent part in the war, were deprived of a large

portion of their territory, but continued to exist as

nominally independent communities, retaining their

own laws, and the old treaties with them were re­

newed, so that as late as the time of Polybius a

Roman citizen might choose Tibur or Praeneste as a

place of exile. (Liv. xliii. 2; Pol. vi. 14.) Tus­

culum, on the contrary, received the Roman fran­

chise; as did Lanuvium, Aricia, Pedum, and No­

mentum, though these last appear to have, in the

first instance, received only the imperfect citizen­

ship without the right of suffrage. Velitrae was

