494 OROXTES. OKXL

clearly to mean that, while the other Cynurians be­

came Perioeci, the Orneatae continued independent,

—an interpretation which is in accordance with the

account of ThucydiJcs. (Miiller, AeginetkOf p. 48,

.soq., Dorians, iii. 4. § 2; Arnold, ad Tkttc. v. G7.)

With respect to the site of Orneae we learn from

Paosanias (v. 25. § 5) tlint it was situated on the

conBnes "I* Phliaaia and Si<y<>nia, at the distance of

120 stadia from Argos, being GO stadia from Lyr-

ceia, which was also 60 stadia from Argos. Strabo

(viii. p. 382) says that Orneae was situated on a

river of the same name above the plain of the Sicy-

ouians; for the other passage of Strabo (viii. p. 578),

which states that Orneae lay between Corinth and

Sicyon, and that it was not mentioned by Homer, is

probably an interpolation. (See Kramer's Strabo.

vol. ii. p. 186.) Orneae stood on the northern of

the two roads, which led from Argos to Mantineia.

This northern road was called Climax, and followed

the coarse of the [nachus. [Argos, p. 201.] Ross

supposes Orneae to have been situated on the river,

■which flows from the south by the village of Lionli

and which helps to form the western arm of the

Asopus. Leake places it too far to the east on the

direct road from Argos to Phlius. (Ross, Reisenim

Pelopormes, p. 135; comp. Leake, A/oreo, vol. ii. p.

351, vol. iii. p. 414.)

0RN1 ("Opvoi), a town of Thrace mentioned

onlv bv Hierocles (p. 632). [T. H. D.l

OR NI AC I ('OpviaKut, Ptol. ii. 6. §32). a tribe of

the Astures in Hisptnta Tarraconen&U. Their chief

town was Intercatia. [T. H.D.]

ORNI'THON POLIS ('OpWoW *6\is), a city

of the Sidonians, according to Scylai (ap. Beland,

J'a I a est. p. 431). It is placed more exactly by

Strabo between Tyre and Si Jon (p. 758). l'liny

mentions together " Sarepta et Ornithon oppida et

SiJon" (v. 19.) Reland suggests that it may be

"Tarnegola superior," which the Talmud places

above Caesarea; Tarnegola in Hebrew being equiva­

lent to the Callus of Latin = upi'iOa in Greek.

(Palaest, p. 916.) Dr. Robinson, following Pococke,

conjectures that it may be represented by an ancient

site on the shore of the Plux-nieiau plain, where lie

noticed "the traces of a former site called 'Adlan,

consisting of contused heaps of stones, with several

old wells." There are also 14 many sepulchral

grottoes, hewn out of the hard limestone rock," in

the precipitous base of the projecting mountain

which here approaches the coast,—furnishing clear

indications of an ancient city in the vicinity.

{Bib. Res. vol. iii. p. 411, and note 2; I'ococke,

Observations, vol. ii. p. 84.) [G.W.]

OROANDA, a town in the mountains of PUidia,

near the south-western shore of lake Trogitis (Liv.

xxxviii. 37. 39; Plin, v. 24). From this town tire

whole district derived the name of OroandicuS tract OS,

the inhabitants of which, called Oroandenses or Ort>

andici ( 'Opoav&ixoi or 'OpoavBtts), [josseSM'd, be.-.ides

the chief town Oroauda. also Misthia and Pappa

(Liv. xxxviii. 18, 19; 1'olyb. xxii. 25; Ptol. v. 4.

§12). Hamilton (Research?.*, i. p. 478) believes

that the ruins In; found on the sdojte of a hill near

lake J-.'yerdir, nmy mark the site ol Oroanda: but it

would seem that its remains must l>e looked for a

little further east. [L. S.]

OROATIS. [Aitosis]

OKO'BIAE ('Op6€iai), a town on the western

coast of Euboea, between Aedepsus and Aegae,

which possessed an oracle of Apollo Selinuntius.

(Strab. x. p. 445, comp. ix. p. 405.) The town

was partly destroyed by an earthquake v*\ a

inundation of the sea in n. c. 426. (Tbuc. i,i *9.)

This town seems to be the one mentioned bj Stt-

pbanus under the name of Orcpe (*Op<nn)), de­

scribes it as " a city "f Euboea, having a tptt nv

nowncd temple of Apollo." (Steph. B. *. r. Kopwj.)

There are some remains of the walls of OrViaesl

Rorit's, which word is only a corruption uf the sv

rieiit name. (Leake, yorthern Gruxe vuL ii,

176.)

ORO'BII, a tribe of Cisalpine Ganls. mesA

only by Pliny (iii. 17. s. 21). upon the inf

Cato, who said that liergornum and Comma

been founded by them, as well as Forom V

which lie most mean the Qsmfish town

ceded the Roman settlement of that name,

original abode, according to Cato, was at s

called liarra, situated high up in the rooi

but be professed himself unable to j*>ini oat

origin and descent. The statement tl

were a Greek people, advanced by Cornelii

ander (ap. plin. I. c), is evidently i mere

rent e from the name, which was probably

or distorted with that very view. [K. H. B.

OnOIIlS. or OltlllS (:OpoSis)t a rivtrrfS'

nensis in Gallia. Ptolemy (ii. 10. 5 2) pises

outlet of the Orobis between the mouth of the

(Audt:) and the Aiauris (Hvrault), which. I

that it is tiie Orbe. In Sirabo's text (It. p.

it is written Obris, which Oroskurd unnee

corrects, for Orbis and Obris were probably

differently, and it ;-ecms that Obrie is the «

reading in Mela (ii. 5, ed. J. Vossius, note),

says that the Orbis H >ws pa>t Baeterrae (ScsssJ

and S:rabo also places Baeterrae on the Orbis,

the Om Maritima (v. 590) the name

The Orbe rUcs in the Ceitrines in the

part of the department of //erault, and has a

winding course in the upper part. It is

miles lon^. [G. Ll

OROLAUMJM, in the north part of Gtl|

placed by the Autouine Itin. on a road from

cortorum (Reims) to Trier. It is placed b

between Epois^uin (fptsrh) and Andean]

which IVAnville snppo>es to be /Tj

which lie means Ecktcrnach: others plaee

dethanna ab-ait „4»fren. The naine ArUrn

represents Orolaannin, where lioman remains**!

i.s said, have been found. Avion is in the do

Luxemburg. [G.

OROMARSACI, a people of North Galfia,

position is thus described by Pliny (iv. c.

is proceeding in his description from the

southward-,;—"TVinde Menapii, Moriuit

juncto jiago qui Cessoriacus vooitur.* la

text the name is written Orumaiisaci. and

>ays that the MSS. have OrumarsacL The

otherwise unknown. D'AnviUe Mippotea I

name Oro-uiarsaci is represented by the t

a tract of country between Calais and Gn

which is Mark or Merle, and borders 00 t

lonnvu, in which the pagus Gessorwus wsk

souiAci M.] This is mere guess, but it is

we can have. [t]

ORONTES ('OpoVrns). the most renown

of Syria, used by the poet Juvenal for the

"in Tiberim defluxit OraMes." (Juv.

original name, according to Strabo,

(Tutpiiv), and his account both of its

later names, folluws his description of

The river Oroutes lljwa near the

