822 LLTIA. LYCAONIA.

concluded that he means the Koruru Neronia men­

tioned by Ptolemy as being in the country of the

Meniini. [Carpentoracte.] But the name Lu-

teva, the modern name Lodeee, and the Itin. seem

to determine the position of l.uteva; and, if Pliny is

riulit, we must suppose that Luteva was also named

Forum Neronis. [G. L.]

LUTIA (Aout(o), a considerable town of the

Arevacae, in Hispania C'iterior, 300 stadia from

Niiinaiuia, mentioned only by Appian (Hitp. 93,

94). [P.S.]

LUTTOSIAGUS, a place in North Gallia, accord­

ing to the Table on a road from Samarobriva

(.4 miens) Ui Castelliim Alenapiorum. The site is

uiu ertain. D'Anville has followed Cluver in writing

the name Luttomagua; but it is Liutomagus in the

Table. [G. L.]

LU'XIA (Odid), » sma" river on the coast of

Hispania Baetica, between ibe Baelis (Guadalquivir)

and ilie Anas (Guadiana ; Plin.iii. l.s.3). [P. S.]

LUXOVIUM. This name appears on some in­

scriptions dug up at Luxeuil, in the French depart­

ment of the Cpptr Stume. Luxtuil is on the

/frencArn, and it has warm baths. The name on

the inscriptions U said to be Luxovium or Lixovium.

These inscriptions were published by Caylus, but

they may not be genuine. In the life of St Columban,

written in the seventh century, Luxovium is men­

tioned:— "Castrum quodolim muuitissimum, priscis

temporibus Luxovium nuncupatum, ubi etiam Ther­

mite eximio opens instructae habebantur. Multae

illic statuae lapideae erant." (D'Anville, Notice,

tfr/: Walckenaer, Gevg. vol. i. p. 320.) [G.L.j

LYCABETTUS MONS. [Athknae, p.303, b.]

LYCAEA. [Ltcoa.]

LYCAKUS or LYCE'US (to Aukoiof oeor, 6

Aioraiof: I)io/6rli), a lofty mountain of Arcadia,

in the district of Parrhasia, from which there is a

view of the greater part of Peloponnesus. Its height

has been determined by the French Commission to

be 4639 feet. It was one of the chief stats of the

worship of Zeus in Arcadia, and on the summit

called Olympus, or itpa *ropv$t), were the sacred

grove and altar of Zeus Lycaeus, together with a

hippodrome and a stadium, whore games called Ly-

Ciiea were celebrated in honour of Zeus (Awr(ua).

These games are said to have resembled the Roman

Lupcn-alia, and were sometimes celebrated by Ar-

cadiutis when in foreign countries. (Plut. Cars. 61;

Xeu. Anab. i. 2. § 10.) Near ihe hippodrome was

a temple of Pnn, who is hence also called Lycaeus.

There are still remains of the hiprndrome extending

from S. to N.; and near its northern extremity

there are considerable remains of a cistern, about 50

feet in length from E. to W. A little further W. is

a ruin called Ilellrnihm, apparently part of a

temple; and near the church of St. Elias is the

summit called Diafurti, where the aliar of Zeus

formerly stood. In the eastern part of the mountain

stood the sanctuary and grove of Apollo Parrlmsius

or Pythius, and left of it the place called Cretca.

(Paua. viii. 38 ; Pind. 01. ix. 145, xiii. 154 ; Theocr.

i. 123; Virg. Grorg. i. 16, iii. 314; Am. viii. 344.)

The river Neda rose in Alt, Cerausium (Kjpotww),

wbirh was a portion of Alt. Lycaeus. (l'aus. vii. 41.

§ 3; cotrjp. Strab. p. 348.) Cerausium is shown

by Kosa to be Stepkani, and not Tetrtlri, as is usually

alated. Alt. Nomia (Nii^ua 6pi)), near Lycosnra

Tana. viii. 38. tj 11), n> probably a portion of the

■ Tetria. (I .cake, Motto, vol. ii. p. 31.1,

•lopotmaiaca, p. 244; Ross, lleitrn im Pe-

lapomet, vol. i. pp. 88, 91; Curtius, Pclopormac*,

vol. i. pp. 294, 338.)

LYCAO'MA (rj Aviraovfa: Elk. Avraasr, Am-

dvior ), a province of Asia Minor, bordering in the ei>«t

on Cappadocia, in the south on Ciliria, in the we»t

on Pisidia and Phrygia, and in the north on Gaixtia.

These frontiers, however, were not always the t.-m e,

but the fluctuation becomes most perplexing at the

time when Asia was under the influence of the

Romans, who gave portions of Lvcaonia sometime*

to this and sometimes to that Asiatic prince, whiie

they incorporated the greater part with the prot tr.ee

of Cappadocia, whence Ptolemy (v. 6. § 16) treats

of it as a part of Cappadocia. The name Lycaonia,

however, continued to be applied to the country

down to a late period, as we see from Hierodn

(p. 6*5) and other Christian writers.

Lvcaonia is, on the whole, a plain country, but

the southern and northern (arts are surrounded by

hi^h mountains; and the north, especially, was a

cold and bleak country, but very well adapted as

pasture-land for sheep, of which king Atnrntas ii

said to have possessed no less than 30O ft«-k*.

Their wool was rather coarse, but still yielded con­

siderable profit to the proprietors. The country was

also rich in wild asses. Its chief mineral prod art

was salt, the soil down to a considerable depth being

impregnated with salt. In consequence of this U.e

country had little drinking-water, which had to l»

obtained from very deep wells, and in s"me parts vc*j

sold at a high price. This account of the country,

furnished by Strain) (xii. p. 568), is fully confirmed

by modern travellers. The streams which come

down from the surrounding mountains do not fi«m

rivers of any importance, but nnite into several lakes,

among which the salt lake T'atta, in the nortii-eaM,

is the most important.

The Lycaonians of Lvcaonia, although Eusta-

thius (ad Diunyi. Per. 857) connects their name

with the Arcadian Lycaon, according to which they

would be Pelasgians, are never mentioned in his­

tory until the time of the expedition of Cyrua tfce

Younger against his brother Artaxerxes, when Cynm,

passing through their country in five days, gave it

up to plunder because they were hostile, (Xrooph.

Anab. i. 2. § 19, com p. iii. 2. § 23, Cgrop. vi. 3.

§ 20.) Who the Lycaonians were, and to what

branch of the human family they belonged, ia un­

certain; but from the Acts of the Apostles (xiv. II)

it appears that they spoke a peculiar lancuage. It

is also well attested that, like the Piaidiant, thrr

were a hardy and warlike race, which owned no

subjection to the Persian monarcha, and lived by

plunder and foray, (l)ionys. Per. 857; Prise. 806:

Avien. 1020.) Their principal towns, which an

few in number, and all of which appear to have brrn

very small, were: Ico.num, Laodickia Comri hta,

Dkrbk, Axthm iiiana, and Lakaxda: the less

important ones were Tykiaeum, Vauta, Soatka,

Ii.iktka, and CunoPASBUa.

As to their early history, we know nothing attoot

the Lycaonians; but they seem to have graduajlv

advanced westward, for in the time of Crursus th«

Phrygians occu|»ied the c< untry as far as the river

Ilalya, and Xenophou calls Iconium the ea'temn^t

town of Phrygia, so that the Lycaonians must mm

continued their extension towards the west even after

that time, for subsequently Iconium was nearly in

the centre of Lvcaeuia. It has already been re­

marked that they maintained their rndrrrndenre

•gainst Persia, but afterwards they sliared the fata

