431 NT U s. Mi.rs.

continued by Dareitu Hystaspis (b.c.520—527),

but nly completed bj Ptolemy Philadelphus (b. c.

274). It began in the Pclusiac branch of the Nile,

u little above the city of Bubastua (Tt I-Bast a), and

passing by the city of Thoum or Patumus, was car­

ried by the Tertians as far as the Hitter Lakes, NE.

of the Delta. Here, however, it was suspended by

the troubles of both Aegypt and Persia, under the

successors of Dareius, and was, in a great measure,

choked up with sand. (Herod, h. 158.) At length

Philadelphia, after cleansing and repairing the

channel, carried it onward to Arsinoc, at the head of

the Sinus Heroopolites. (Piin. vi 29. s. 33.) The

Ptolemaic canal, however, suffered the fate of its

predecessor, and even before the reign of CIeo|citra

bad become useless for navigation. The connection

by w iter lietwcen Ar.-dnoc and the Xilc was renewed

by Trajan, a. d. 10G: hut his engineers altered the

direction of the cutting. They brought the stream

from a higher part of the river, in order that the

current might run into, instead of from, the Bed

Sea, and that the intervening sandy tracts might be

irrigated by fresh instead of partially salt water.

The canal of Trajan accordingly began at Babylon,

on the eastern bank of the Nile, opposite Memphis,

and, passing by Heliopolis, Scenae Yetcranorum, He-

ronpoHM, and Serapion, entered the lied Sea about

20 miles S. of Arsiuoe, at a town called Klysmon,

from the locks in its neighbourhood. The work of

Trajan was either more carefully preserved than that

of the Macedonian and Persian kings of Aegypt had

been, or, if like them, it fell into decay, it was re­

paired and reopened by the Mahommedan conquerors

of the country. For, seven centuries after Trajan's

decease, we read of Christian pilgrims sailing along

his canal on their route from England to Palestine.

(Dicueil, de Mensur. Orbit, vi. ed Letronne.)

2. The Canopic canal (77 Karu'SiK?; 5iwpi'£, Strab.

xvii. p. 800; Sh'ph. B. s. v.) connected the city of

Cartoons with Alcxandreiu and the lake Mareotis.

Its banks were covered with the country houses and

gardens of the wealthy Alexandrians, and formed a

kind of water suburb to both the Aegyptiati and

Macedonian cities. [Caxoits.]

Physical Character of the Nile.

The civilisation of all countries is directly influ­

enced by their rivers, and in none more so than in

Aesypt, which has been truly called the gift of the

Nile* (Herod, ii. 5; Strab.'xi. p. 493.) To its

stream the laud owed not only its jieculiar cultiva­

tion, but its existence also. Without it. the Libyan

waste would have extended to the shores of the

Red Sea. The limestone which lies under the

soil of Aegypt, the sands which bound it to E. and

W., were rendered by the deposits of the river iit

for the habitation of man. The Delta, indeed, was

absolutely created by the Nile. Its periodical floods

at fir.it narrowed a bay of the Mediterranean into an

estuary, and next filled up the estuary with a plain

of teeming alluvial soil. The religion, and many of

the peculiar institutions of Aegypt, are derived from

its river; and its physical characteristics have, in

all ages, attracted the attention of historians and

geographers.

Its characteristics may be considered under the

heads of (1) its deposits; (2) the quality of its

waters; and (3) its periodica! inundations.

(I.) Its dejMMtfcf.— Borings made in the Delta to

the depth of 45 feet, have shown that the soil con­

sists ot vegetable matter and an earthy deposit, such

as the Nile now brings down. The inpiAirtAi fl

this dejxwit are clay, lime, and siliceous saod; bat

their proj>ortion is affected by the soil over which tat

river flows. Calcareous and argillaceous nana

abound in the neighbourhood of Cairo and taa

Delta; silex preponderates in the granitic and ana*

stone districts of Upper Aegypt. The unoo**1

this deposit corresponds generally to the slope of I

banks and the distance from the river. I"

Nubia and Upper Aegypt alluvial cliffs art fortnei1

the height of 40 feet; in Middle Aegypt theyaal

to 30; at the point of the iX lta to about cijltaa

The earthy matter is deposited in a convex f*a

the larger quantity lying close to the stream,!!

smaller at the verge of the inundation. Afl aeoaa

quence of this fall from the banks towards thednal

the limit to which the inundation reaches is elovr/CI

extending itself; but as the Nile raises its own ball

well as its banks,their relative proportion is present

The deposit of the Nile is found to c«ciai»t of (1

clay, constituting 48 in 100 parts; (2) earke^

parts; (3) carbonate of lime 18 {•arts, and 4 1

carbonate of magnesia, besides portions of -:>-»»

oxide of iron. These form a compost so rich, tl

land on which they are jerennially deposited f

no other manure, and produces without farther I

vat ion successive harvests of corn. (Athan ii. 41,

Plin. xviii. 19. a. 81.)

(2.) The quality of its tcatcrs.—The wateraH

is not less important to Aegypt than the ingredasi

which it precipitates or holds in solution,

some short streams in the Arabian hills, ta

one season and dry at another, the Nile is I

river in Aegypt. Natural springs do nut 1

the upper country; and the wells of the Ivhai

only a turbid and brackish fluid. The rimi

cordingly the single resource of the inhabit!

the frequent ablutions enjoined by their

rendered a copious supjdy of water more

narily important to them. Between its bq

lowest periods, the water of the Nile is clear,

lowest, it is feculent (Athen. ii. 42); and I

beginning of the inundation is covered with a|

ish vegetable matter, that is said to cas

tive disease. But even when most turbid, it 1

unwholesome, and is always capable of fil

The water in its medium state was pan 1

ticioaa to the taste. The Persian kings, aJ

conquest of Aegypt. imported it for their own

iug to Susa and Kcbatana (Athen. ii. J»4. 67)^

the emperor Pescennius Niger replied to 1

demand for wine, "Have you not the

Nile.'1 (Spartian. ap. August Hist. Sc

cenn. Niger, c. 7.) These change* in tJ

quality of the water were ascribed to the <

of the Nubian lakes, or to the passage of

over various strata. But until the.

White and Blue Rivers have been explored t

sources, we must be content to remain

the real causes of these phenomena.

(3.) Its periodical inundations. —'

of the inundation early attracted the

ancient observers; and various tbeurM

vised to account for them. It wi

from the melting of the snow oq the

mountains (Schol. in ApolL RKod. it.

Helen, init.); and Herodotus rejecta

position, because, as he conceived, alt

ously, that snow was unknown in Aethiopra (

It was ascribed to the Etesian winds. wLLch. I

from the N. in summer, force back

