168 LEUCA. LEUCAS.

and hence gave the name of Lf.uteknia to all the

surrounding district. The same story is told, with

some variations, by the pseudo-Aristotle (tie Mirab.

97); and the name of Leutarnia is found also in

Lycophrnn (AUx. 978), whose expressions, however,

would have led us to suppose that it was in the

neighbourhood of Siris rather than of the Iapygian

promontory. Tzetr.es, (atl Itc.) calls it a city of

Italy, which is evidently only an erroneous inference

from the words of his author. The Lateruii of

Scylax, whom he mentions as one of the tribes that

inhabited lapygia, may probably be only another

form of the same name, though we meet in no other

writer with any allusion to their existence as a real

people. [E. H. B.]

LKUCA,the name given by Pomponius Mcla(i. 16),

to a district on the west of Halicaniassus,between that

city and Myndus. Pliny (IT, Ar. v. 29) mentions a

town, Leucopolis, in the same neighbourhood, of

which, however, nothing else is known to us. [L. S.]

LEUCADIA. [Lki'cas.J

LEUCAE or LEUCE (AeO«ai, Ani»rn), a small

town of Ionia, in the neighbourhood of Phocaea, was

situated, according to Pliny (v. 31), "in pro-

montorio quod insula fuit." From Scylax (p. 37)

we learn that it was a place with harbours. Accord­

ing to Diodorus (xv. 18) the Persian admiral Tachos

founded this town on an eminence on the sea coast, in

B.C. 352 ; but shortly after, when Tachos had died,

the Clazomenians and Cymaeans quarrelled about its

possession, and the former succeeded by a stratagem

in making themselves masters of it. At a later time

Lcucae became remarkable for the battle fought in

its neighbourhood between the consul LiciuiusCrassus

and Aristonicns, B.C. 131. (Strab. xiv. p. 646;

Justin, xxxvi. 4.) Some have supposed this place

to be identical with the Leuconium mentioned by

Thucydi'les (viii. 24) ; but this is impossible, as this

latter place must be looked for in Chios. The site

of the ancient Leucae cannot be a matter of doubt,

as a village of the name of I^rrlx, close upon the sea,

at the foot of a hill, is evidently the modern repre­

sentative of its ancient namesake. (Arundell, .Wen

Church™, p. 295.) [L. S.]

LEUCAE (Aewfai), a town of Lnconia situated

at the northern extremity of the plain Leuce, now

called I'hiniti, which extended inland between

Acriae and Asoptis on the eastern side of the La-

con'un gulf. (1'olyb. v. 19; Liv. xxxv. 27; Strab.

viii. p. 363 ; Leake, Moren, vol. i. p. 226, seq.;

Bohlaye, /trcherchet, tft. p. 95; Curtius, I'tlvpon-

hoom, vc.l. ii. p. 290.)

LEUCARUM, a town in Britain, mentioned in the

Itinerary as being 15 miles from Isca Dumnuni-

orum, and 15 from Niduin. The difficulties involved

in this list (viz. that of the 12th Itinerary) are noticed

under Muitltit;>-L'M. The MnnwiwnUi liritimnicti

suggests both Glastonbury in Somersetshire, and

Vvyhor in Glamorganshire. [K. G. L.J

LEUCAS (Afuxcii), a place in Bithynia, on the

river Gallna, in the south of Nicaea, is mentioned

only by Anna Comnena (p. 470), but can be easily

identified, as its name l/fkr is still borne by a neat

little town in the middle of the beautiful valley of

theGaltus. (Leake. AaaMiaor, pp. 12,13.) [L.S.]

LEUCAS, LEUCA'DIA (Aevaat, Thuc, Xen.,

Strab.; A»uao8(o, Thuc Lit.: Ktk. Ari*a%oi).

an island in the Ionian sea, separated by a narrow

chtnnrl from the cmst of Aoniania. It was ori­

ginally fart of the mainland, and as such is described j

by Homer, who calls it the Actc or jriiinaula of the

mainland. ("Airrjj r/w«'f»'<>. Od. xxiv. 877;

Strab. x. pp. 451, 452.) Homer also mentions its

woll-fortificd town Neuici's (Nyputot, L e.) It«

earliest inhabitants were I/elcgcs and Teieboana

(Strab. vii. p. 322), but it was afterwanls peopled

by Acarnsnians, who retained possession of it tiU

the middle of the seventh century b. c, when the

Corinthians, under Cypselus, founded a new town

near the isthmus, which they called Lencax, where

they settled 1000 of their citizens, and to which

they removed the inhabitants of the old town of

Ncricus. (Strab. /. c.; Scylax, p. 13; Thnc i. 30;

Plut. Them. 24; Scymn. Chius, 464.) Scylax seya

that the town was first called EpilcucadiL The

Corinthian colonists dug a canal through this is;b-

mus, and thus converted the peninsula into en

island. (Strab. i.e.) This canal, which was calW

Dioryctus, and was, according to Pliny, 3 stadia ia

length (AuipvKTor, Polyb. T. 5; Plin. ir. 1. a. 2),

was after filled up by deposits of sand; and in the

Peloponnesian War, it was no longer available far

ships, which during that period were conveyed across

the isthmus on more than one occasion. (Thuc. iiu

81, iv. 8.) It was in the same state in b-c. 2I*1;

for Polybius relates (v. 5) that Philip, the son of

Demetrius, had his galleys drawn across this isth­

mus in that year; and Livy, in relating the siege of

Leucas by the Romans in B.C. 197, says, " Lrncadia,

nunc insula, et vadoso frcto quod perfossum manu

est, ab Acamania divisa" (xxxjii. 17). The tub-

sequent restoration of the canal, and the construction

of a stone bridge, both of which were in existence

in the time of Strabo, were no doubt the work of tbs

Romans; the canal was probably restored soon after

the Roman conquest, when the Romans separated

Leucas from the Acarnanian confederacy, ami the

bridge was perhaps constructed by order of Augustus

whose policy it was to facilitate communications

throughout his dominions.

Leucadia is about 20 miles in length, and from

5 to 8 miles in breadth. It resembles the Isle of

.Man in shape and size. It consists of a range of

limestone mountains, terminating at its north-eastern

extremity in a bold and rugged headland, whence

the coast runs in a south-west direction to the pro­

montory, anciently called Lours toe, which has been

corrupted by the Italians into Cape Ducato. Tbe

name of the cape, as well as of the island, is of

course derived from its irkite clifla. The southern

shore is more soft in aspect, and more sloping aasd

cultivated than the rugged rocks of the northern

coast; but the most populous and wooded district is

that opposite Acamania. The interior of the island

wears everywhere a rugged aspect. There is bat

little cultivation, except where terraces have beea

planted on the mountain sides, and covered with

vineyunls. The hichest ridge of the mountains n«

about 3000 feet above the sea.

Between the northern coast of Louradia anil that

of Acamania there is at present a lagoon about

3 miles in length, while it* breadth varies from

100 yards to a mile and a half. Tbe laguon is ha

most parts only about 2 feet deep. This part est

the roast requires a more particular dncriplio,

which will be rendered clearer by the accooipanyinj;

plan. At the north-eastern extremity of Leoesszin

a lido, or spit, of sand, 4 miles in length, swwpm

cut towards Acamania. (See Plan, A.) (In as

isolated point opposite the extremity of Um sand*

bank, is the fort of S*mta J/ourc, erected in ttie

middle ages by one of the Latin princes, hut repaints!

