1072 SYRIA. SYRIA.

north of Apameia, where its impetuosity is curbed and

iis waters dissipated in the morasses, so that it flows

off in a diminished stream to Jisr Shot/fter, to be

again replenished in its course through the plain of

'Umk by other affluents, until it reaches its nor­

thernmost point at Jisr Had id (the Iron Bridge), a

little Mow which it winds round to the west, and

shout 5 miles above Antioeh receives from Bahr-el-

A Had (the White Sea) the Nahr-eLKowshit, a

navigable river, containing a greater volume of

water than EUAzy itself. It now flows to the north

of Antioeh and the infamous groves of Daphne,

through an exceedingly picturesque valley, in a

south-west course to the sea, which it enters a little

to the south of Seleucia, alter a circuitous course of

about 200 miles, between 34° anil 36° 15' of north

latitude, 36° and 37° of east longitude.

3. Ardttibanus and the eastern range. — The

mountain chain which confines Coelesyria on tlie

east is properly designated Antilibanus, but it is

furl her extended towards the north and south by

offsets, which confine tlie valley of the Orontcs and

the Jordan valley respectively. Antilibanus it-self,

now called Jebel-esh-Shurkeh (Eastern Mountain'),

which is vastly inferior to Li ban us both in majesty

and fertility, has been already described, as has also

its southern prolongation in Mount Hertnon, now

Jebel-esh-Sheikh} sometimes Jtbel-et-Tebje (the

Snow Mountain). [AsTlLlBANUS-] The northern

chain, on the east of the Orontes valley, has not been

sufficiently surveyed to admit of an accurate de­

scription, but there is nothing striking in the height

or general aspect of the range, which throws out

branches into the great desert, of which it forms the

western boundary.

4. The eastern desert. — Although for the pur­

poses of a geographical description the whole country

cast of the mountain chains above described may be

regarded as one region, and the insufficient materials

for a minute and accurate survey make it convenient

so to regard it, yet it is tar from being an uniform

flat, presenting throughout the same features of de­

solation. On the contrary, so far as it has yet been

explored, particularly to the south of the parallel of

Damascus, the country is diversified by successions

of hills and valleys, which often present large fertile

tracts of arable land, cultivated in many parts by a

hardy and industrious race of inhabitants. By far

the richest of these is the plain of Damascus (El-

trhutaJi), at the foot of the eastern declivity of Anti­

libanus, the most excellent of the four earthly para­

dises of the Arabian geographers. (Dr. Eli Smith, in

Bib. Hex. vol. iii. Append. B. p 147.) It owes its

beauty, not less than its fertility, to the abundance

of water conveyed to it in the united streams of the

Baruda and the Bht-geh, which, issuing together

from the eastern roots of Antilibanus. and distributed

into numerous rivulets, permeate the city and its

thousands of gardens, and finally lose themselves in

the Sea of the Plain, Bahr-tl-Merj, which the ex­

ploration of a recent traveller has found to consist of

two lakes instead of one, as has been hitherto re­

presented in all modern maps. (Porter, Five Wars

in f)amasctts1 1855, vol. i. pp.377—382,and map.)

Indeed, so much fresh light has been thrown on the

south-west of Syria by Mr. Porter's careful surveys,

that the geography of the whole country will have

to be greatly modified in all future maps, as we are

now, for the first time, in a position to define with

some degree of accuracy the limits of several dis­

tricts mentioned both by sacred and classical writers,

whose relative position even has hitherto \xa >

matter of doubtful conjecture. The sUermc& ,

Burckhardr. who has hitherto been tie so* lauwrsj,

require considerable correction.

The Barada, the ancient Ahana. fmm its r&t a

Antilibanus, near the plain of Zrbdfmy to its tr^.-

nation in the South and East Lakcf, is mjirs. >

traverse a distance of 42 miles, and to lilfl x rr*.',

equal to 311 square miles, inhabited by ipcpuL^

of 150,000 souls, or an average <i 482 i*«7

square mile, including Damascus and its rasr*

"The prevailing rock of the mountains thrgtci rat

it flows is limestone. In the higher rec*<a> - a

hard and compact, but near Damascus tdi a

chalky, with large nodules of flint ratennixei F»-

sil shells and corals in great variety are faoai vs(

the centra] chain of Antilibanus, through wtjciTa

river tirst cuts. In the white hills Dear DuafcfB

are large quantities of ammonites. At S*i R*J

Barada (near its source) is a vast bed «' or^u:

remains, not less than a mile in (earth, aru: is *z*

places exceeding 100 feet in thickness. True *

trees, branches of every size and form, aE'l cm 'J»

delicate tracery of the leaves may be sees

about in vast masses. There are iu seveni ?U»

among the mountains traces of vukanir sua

On a lofty summit, two hours' north-east a; »

what appears to be an extinct crater. TLi* ^

tain ha.- been rent, the limestone struts thnwi t*L.

and black porous trap-rock fills up tne esviiy. ^*

plain of Damascus has a loamy soil ia:encn*.r—

fine sand. The substratum is generally cocgtsrwni

made up of rounded smooth pebbles, flint, it:

The south-eastern portion of the (.lain is ew?

volcanic" (Porter, Journal of Sacrvd Lifr^**

vol. iv. p. 262.) The plain of Damascus is * -

towards the south by a low r&nzt of krils e^'-

Jebel-ehAttDad (the Black Mountain), the

bxse of which is washed by a stream, atea *

lately been supposed by some travelers t* bbm*

the ancient Pharpar. It is now called .Vast*

Awaj, which, rising in the roots of Hermaa,naiSi

course about north-east to a small liir as

Bahret-el-ffeijany, only about 4 miles sou's <i a

Bahret-d- Kibiiyah, into which the Ban.&i ^

It runs partly through a limestone »a± V-'

through a volcanic formation, which c\^'.i.v< i --n

far to the south. (Porter, in Journal of Sac La.

v. pp. 45—57, Travels, vol. i. pp. 297—323.)

the south side of the river, opposite to J<<*~*

Aswatlj is another low mountain ran re calxd

Mania, and a higher elevation concectcd si-l -

range commands a view of those ancient Arne

Southern Syria, which have hitherto bees oc j

jecturally placed in modern maps. Their teear-^*3

have notwithstanding been indelibly traced c* J

hand of nature, and the limits so dearly

that they actually exist, mostly under th r

ancient names, as au evidence of the oesi.*7

classical and sacred geographers. But tbe* 1 ■;

more conveniently considered, in oxuwcii* r

Trachonitis, round which they are grvaped

chonitis], particularly as this part ttf tit os--

may be regarded as debatable ground betwwo >'~

Arabia, and Palestine.

Turning now to the north of Datnascns isi:

east of the mountain range, the tssiatry b*«

this city and Aleppo offers nothing wvtfij of

tieular notice; indeed its geography is s-uJ i

in the map of Syria, except its western s*ifc

is traversed by Uie Haj read, the rnosx nortaerr

