VENETIA. VEN1C0NES. 1275

n the liill above the baths of Aponus, one of the

■roup in question; and Martial gives the name of

Kneanrae Orac" to the hills near the town of

Hole (£*<*), at the southern extremity of the same

sage. (Lucan. vii. 192; Martial, x. 93). There

in, therefore, be no doubt that this beautiful range

( hills was known in ancient times as the Euganei

:ui«.

The liters of Vcnetia are numerous, but, for the

eisons already mentioned, not always easy to

lirntify. Much the largest and most important is

tie A thesis (Adige), which at one period formed

lie boundary of the province, and which, emerging

r<ro the Alps, near Verona, sweeps round in a great

arve till it pours its waters into the Adriatic only a

n miles N. of the mouths of the Padua. The next

iw of any magnitude is the Medi'acus or Brenta,

ihitk flows under the walls of l'atavium, and re-

rim as a tributary the Bacchiglione, apparently

la Mrdnacus Minor of Pliny. Afierthis (proceeding

utasrds) comes the Sius (Sefe), a small stream

"»ing by the town of Altinum: next, the Plavis

Itatt), a much more important river, which rises

9 the Alps above Belunnm (Belhmo), flows past that

ilr sod Feltria (Feltre), and enters the sea a few

nit* E. of Altinum: then the Liqukktia (l.icrnza),

ad the ttoUATlsus (Lemcie), a small river flowing

oder the walls of Concordia. Next to this comes

;.e Tilavkmitub (Tagliamento), the most im-

urtant of the rivers of the E. portion of Venetia,

jung its sources in the high ranges of the Alps

U*e Jaliura Caroieum, whence it traverses the

'liule plain of the Carni, nearly in a direct line

<*in N. to S. Beyond tliis come several minor

:«uns, which it is not easy to identify with ccr-

a-nty: such are the Varanua and Anansus of Pliny,

n-Uibly the Stella and the torrent of Connor; and

be A lax, which still bears the name of Atua. E.

f these, again, come three considerable streams, the

i luiua, Natiso, and Sontrs, which still preserve

Mr ancient names, as the Torre, Natuone, and

<a», but have undergone considerable changes in

be lower part of their course, the Natiso having

mn-rly Sowed under the walls of Aimileia, about

miles W. of its present channel, while the Isotuo,

uich now unites with it, originally followed an in-

r[*aJenl channel to the sea, near Munfalcone.

ue laomzo receives a considerable tributary from

it E., the WippticK or Vipno, which descends

inn the elevated (able-land of the Kant, and was

sown in ancient times as the Funics F'rioidus.

t was by the valley of this river that the great high.

aU tram the banks of the Danube, after crossing

M dreary highlands of Camiola, descended to

.■(uileia and the plains of Venetia. On the externa

mnnea of the province the little river Timavus

nut be mentioned, on account of its classical cele-

itty, though of no geographical importance ; and

>r Fdkmio (Auono), a few uiiies & of Tergeste,

inch, from the time of Pliny, constituted the limit

etwees V'eoetia and Istria. (Plin. iii. 18. s. 22.)

The cities and towns of Venetia may now be enu-

•Taied in geographical order. Farthest to the W.,

il l situated on the Athetis, was the important city

( Vckona. Considerably to the E. of this was

rkjitia, and beyond that again, Patavicm. 8.

I Yicentia, at the southern extremity of the Eu-

ineau lulls, was Atestk (£'(«). On the border

I 'he lagunca, at their N. extremity, was Altinum,

ad 30 miles farther to the E., Coscordia. In-

sua from these lay Opitkboium and Tahvisium,

both of Uiem considerable towns; and on the slopes

of the hills forming the lowest underfills of the Alps,

the smaller towns of Acf.i.um (AmoIo) and Ceneta

(Ceneda), the name of which is found in Agathias

and Paulus Diaconus (Agath. IlitL Goth. ii. 8;

P. Diac. ii. 13), and was in all probability a 1 toman

town, though not mentioned by any earlier writer.

Still farther inland, in the valley of the 1'lavis, were

Fklthia and Belunuu. E. of the Tilavemptus,

and therefore included in the territory of the Carni,

were Aquileta, near the sea-coast; FoiU'M Jli.ii,

N. of the preceding; Veimscm (Wine), farther

to the W.; and Ji i.irM Cakkicum, in the upper

valley of the Tilavemptus, and in the midst of the

Alps. Tergestk, on the E. side of the bay to

which it gave its name, was the last city of Venetia,

and was indeed by many writers considered as be­

longing to Istria. [Tergeste].

Besides these, there were in the land of the Carni

several smaller towns, the names of which are men­

tioned by Pliny (iii. 19. s. 23), or are found for the

first time in Paulus Diaconus and the Geographer

of Ravenna, but were in all probability Roman towns,

which had grown up under the Empire. Of these,

Flamonia(Plin.)is probably Flagogna, in the valley

of the Tagliamento ; Osopum (P. Diac iv. 38) is still

called Osopo, and Glcmona, Gemona, higher up in

the same valley; and Anemia, Artegna, a few

miles SE. of the preceding. Cormones (ii.) is still

called Cormoru, a small town between Cividale and

Graduca ; and PuciHl'M (Plin., Ptol.) is Duino,

Dear the sources of the Tiuutvus.

The other obscure names mentioned by Pliny (i c),

and of which he himself says, 41 quos scrupulase

dicerc non attineat," were apfiarently for the most

part mountain tribes or communities, and cannot be

determined with any approach to certainty.

Venetia was traversed by a great lino of high­

road, which proceeded from Aquileia to Verona, and

thence to Mediolanum, and formed the great high­

way of communication from the latter city to the

Danube and the provinces of the Eastern Empire.

It passed through Concordia, Altinum, Palaviurn,

Vitentia, and Verona. From Pataviom a branch

struck off through Ateste and Anneianum (probably

Legtiago on the Adige) to join the Aemilian Way at

Mutina. A still more direct line of communication

was established from Altinum to Ravenna by water,

through the lagunes and artificial canals which com.

manicated from one to another of these sheets of

water. This line of route (if such it can be called)

is briefly indicated by the Antonine Itinerary (" inde

[a Ravenna] navigantur Septem Maria Altinum

usque," p. 126) ; while the stations are given in de­

tail by the Tabula; but from the fluctuations that

the lagunes have undergone, few of them can be

identified with any certaintv. [E. 11. B.]

VENETIA, in GauL [Veseti.]

VENE1TCAE 1NSUI.AE, in Gallia, mentioned

by Pliny (iv. 19), are the numerous small islands

along the coast of Venetia, or the modern department

of MorbVian. The largest is Belie-ile. The others

are Uouat, Medic, Groain, and some others. Per­

haps the peninsula of Quiberon may be included

[V'eweti ; Vixiiius]. [G-k]

VENETUS LACliS. [BRioAnnsus Lacus.]

VENIA'TIA, a place in Gallaecia in Hispania

Tarraconensis, on the road from Bracara to Astu-

rica. (/(in. Ant. p. 423.) Variously identified

with l inAura, l araina, and Ktqvejo. f T. H. I).]

VEMCO NES (Owiwm, Ptol. ii. 3. § 14), a

