12G LARISSA. LARINUM.

mention of Larinum. (Ptol. iii. I. § 65; Plin. iii.

11. s. 16: Mil. ii. 4. § 6.) Caesar, on the other

hand, distinguishes the territory of Larinum both

from that of the Krentani and from Apulia (" per

tinea Marrucirinrum, Krentanorutn, Larinatiuin, in

Apuliam pcrvenit," B. C. i. 23). Livy uses almost

exactly the same expressions (xxvii. 43); and this

appears to be the real solution, or rather the origin

of the difficulty, that the Larinates long formed an

independent community, possessing a territory of

considerable extent, which was afterwards regarded

by the geographers as connected with that of their

northern or southern neighbours, according to their

own judgment. It was included by Augustus in

the Second Region of Italy, of which he made the

Tifernus the boundary, and thus came to be natu­

rally considered as an appurtenance of Apulia: but

the boundary would seem to hare been subsequently

changed, for the Liber Coloniarum includes Larinum

among the " Ciritates Kegionis Samnii," to which the

Krentani also were attached. (Lib. Colon, p. 260.)

Ot the early history of Larinum we have scarcely

any information. Its name is not even once men­

tioned during the long continued wars of the Romans

and Samnites, in which the neighbouring Luceria

figures so conspicuously. Hence we may probably

infer that it was at this period on friendly terms

with Rome, and was one of those Italian states

that passed gradually and almost imperceptibly from

the condition of allies into that of dependents,

and ultimately subjects of Rome. Puring the

Second Punic War, on the other hand, the territory

of Larinum became repeatedly the scene of operations

of the Roman and Carthaginian armies. Thus in

lie. 217 it was at Gerunium, in the immediate

neighbourhood of Larinum, that Hannibal took up

his winter-quarters, while Fahius established his

camp at Calela to watch him; and it was here that

the engagement took place in which the rashness of

Miuucius had so nearly involved the Roman army

in defeat. (Pol. iii. 101; Liv. xxii. 18, 24, &c.)

Again, in B. c. 207, it was on the borders of the

same territory that Hannibal's army was attacked

on its march by the praetor Hostilius, and suffered

severe loss (Liv. xxvii. 40): and shortly after it

is again mentioned as being traversed by the consul

Claudius on his memorable march to the Me-

tauros. (IbiH. 43; Sil. Ital. xv. 565.) In the

Social War it appears that the Larinates must have

joined with the Krentani in taking up arms atrainst

Rome, as their territory was ravaged in B. c. 8U by

t bo praetor C. Cosconius, after his victory over Tre-

hatiua near Canusium. (Appian, Ii. C. i. 52.)

During lite civil wars of Caesar and Pompey, the

territory of Larinum was traversed by the former

general on his advance to Brundusium (Caes. Ii. C.

i. 23). Pompey seems to have at one time made it

his head-quarters in Apulia, but abandoned it on

learning the disaster of Domitius at Corfiniuin.

(Cic. ad Alt. vii. 12, 13. b.)

From the repeated mention during these military

operations of the territory of Larinum, while none

occurs of the city itself, it would appear that the

litter could not huve been situated on the high road,

which probably passed through the plain below it.

Rut it is evident from the oratiofl of Cicero in de­

fence of A. Cluentins, who was a native of Ijirinum,

that it was in his day a flourishing and considerable

municipal town, with its local magistrates, acnate,

public archives, fornm. and all the other appurte-

i of mtmii ipul government. (Cic. pro Cluent.

5, 8, 13, 15. &c.) We learn from the Liber Co­

loniarum that it received a colony uruier Caesar

(l.nje Julia, Lib. Colon, p. 260): but it appear*

from inscriptions that it continued to retain it* mu­

nicipal rank under the Roman Empire. (UrcII.

Inter. 142; Mommsen, Inter. Iiegn. Srap. pp.

272, 273.) The existing remains sufficiently prove

that it must have been a large anil populous town;

but no mention of it is found in history after tlie

close of the Roman Republic. Its name is found in

the Itineraries in the fourth century (ftm. Ant.

p. 314, where it is corruptly written Arenio; Tab.

Peut.); and there is no reason to suppose that it

ever ceased to exist, as we find it already noticed

as an episcopal see in the seventh century. In

A. i>. 842 it was ravaged by the Saracens, and it

was in consequence of this calamity that the in­

habitants appear to have abandoned the anrxrii

site, and founded the modem city of /Mriiia. a little

less than a mile to the W. of the ancient one. The

ruins of the latter, now called Larino Vtechio, oc­

cupy a considerable space on the summit of a hill

called Monterone, about three miles S. of the Bi-

ferno (Tifernus): there remain some portions of the

ancient walls, as well as of one of the gates; the

ruins of an amphitheatre of considerable extent, and

those of a building, commonly called // Palazzo.

which appears to have stood in the centre of tlte

town, adjoining the ancient forum, and may probaldv

have been the Curia or senate house. (Tria, J/e-

morie di iMrino, i. 10.)

The territory of Larinum seems to have originally

extended from the river Tifernus to the Krento

(Fortore), and to have included the whole trmet

between those rivers to the sea. The town of Cli-

ternia, which was situated within these limits, is

expressly called by Pliny a dependency of I .annum

("Lariuatum Clitemia," Plin. iii. 11. a. 16); and

Teanum, which is placed by him to the X. of the

Krento, was certainly situated on its right bank.

Hence it is probable that the municipal terriUa-T of

Larinum under the Roman government (till com­

prised the whole tract between the two rivers. The

Tabula pbices Larinum eighteen miles from Trunin

in Apulia, and this distance is continued by an ex­

press statement of Cicero. (Toe. I'euL; Cic. ar-o

Cluent. 9.)

There exist numerous coins of Larinum, with the

inscription ladinod in Roman letters. From this

last circumstance Uiey cannot bo n-ferred to a Yerjr

early iwri.nl, and are certainly not older than the

Roman conquest. (Eckln-I, vol. i. p. 107; Momm­

sen, Hum. Miinzureten, p. 335.) [E. H. B.J

COW OF LARINfM.

LARISSA (Mfuraa, but on coins and inscr Ki-

pttra or Aopeiaa: Eth. Aapuraawi, Aapiaeuoi). a

name common to many Pelusgic towns, and probabtr

a Pelaagic word signifying city. (Convp, Siren, xiu.

p. 620: 1 Hon vs. i. 21; Niebuhr, IlitL of Rumtt, vol. i.

note 60.) Hence in mythology Lanaaa is repre­

sented as tho daughter of Pclasgua (Pans. ii. *4­

