MENUS. RHENUS. 707

it (Bi£k), where the Rhine is about 800 feet

«lie n, ml hen we may fix the termination

u* l'[>|*r Rhine. The drainage of all that part

^ueriiod which lies north of the Lake of

wrn and the Bernese Alps is carried to the

» * the j) or, which joins it on the left bank

'.'Mrv, ooe of the Raman Conflucntes.

&i*Ze the Rhine has a general north coarse

where it enters the low country which

■j i put of the greet plain of Northern Europe.

I mj be called the Middle Rhine. In this part

joene the river receives few streams on the

Hit The chief river is the Motet (Moeellu),

i jus it si Cublaa (Confluentes). On the

I auk it is joined by the Seekar (Nicer), the

» M-joia), which joins it at Mau*z (Mogun-

oL ud the Lakn (Langana), which joins it at

Wiauawa.

i' Bum the river has still a general north

* (Jit Colngme (Colonia Agrippinensis) as far  
W, where it is joined on the right hank by the

II l.cppia). Mil higher up by the Roer or Ruhr

u Between Cologne and Wetel it is joined on

"•« uje by the ErfL From Watl its course

I ud then west to Pamerden in the kingdom

* Sriherlsnde. At Panntrden it divides into  
winches, of which the southern is called the

II Viailis), ud the northern retains the name

aw. The Waal has the greater volume of

■ It rats westward, and is joined at Gorcum

■ ** kaak by the Moat (Moea). The Moot

c*»ln several times after its junction with

reai The main branch is joined on the right

» lie Lick, a branch which comes from the

rrarrr at H'fck by Dvmtede, and flows past

•em into the North Sea.

< Bune, which was divided at Pamerden,

ieu to Anthem (Arenacum), above which

t cecflmanicates with the Yuel at Dott-

i channel which is supposed to be the

(tauaaa, the canal of Drusus. [Kl.EVO

0 The r«eef runa north from Boetburg

/•airr Zee, which it enters on the east side

)■ !awa of Kampen. The Rhine rnns west-

rci .trwaetwi, and at Wyck by Duuretede, as

1 *4 amds off the branch called the Leek,

*ti the Moat. The Rhine divides again at  
'Trejectmn): one branch called the Vecht

'-fcward into the Zuider Zee; the other,

% or Old Rhine, continues its course with

^ volume, and passing by Leiden enters

Sra at Katteyck. The whole course of

» » eetimated at about 950 miles.

>lu of the Rhine lies between the F*eW,

'-wt into the Zuider Zee, and the Moot, if

at it simply as determined by mere boun-

Du all this surface is not alluvial ground,

nseni part of the province of Utrecht ami

"• 4 Cnelderland which is between the

* /aider Zee, and the Yuel contains small  
> which are not alluvial.

**criptwi of the Rhine is necessary in  
.-J-rsund what the ancient writers have

L

I* description of the Rhine that we possess

'.-*■! authority is Caesar's, though he had

■arh of it. Be aaya {B. G. iv. 15) that

a the Alpine regions of the Lepontii, and

11 l>«g eoone along tho bonndaries of the

i Hdvetii, Seqtuni, Mediomatrici, Triboci,

to, in a rapid course. The name Nantuatcs

is corrupt [Nahtuates], If we make the limits

of the Treviri extend nearly to the Netherlands or

the commencement of the low country, Caesar has

shown pretty clearly the place where the Rhine

enters the great plain. Oa approaching the oceun,

he says, it forms many islands, and enters the sea

by several mouths (capita). He knew that the

Rhine divided into two main brunches near the

sea; and he says that one of the branches named

the Vahalis {Waal) joined the Mosa {Maas), and

formed the Insula Batavorum [Batavoulm In­

sula], He speaks of the rapidity of the river, and

its breadth and depth in that part where he built

his wooden bridge over it. {B. G. iv. 17.) He

made the bridge between CobUnz and Andtniach,

higher up than the place where the river enters tho

low country. He crossed the Rhine a second time

by a bridge which he constructed a little higher up

than the first bridge. (B. G. vi. 9.)

Those persons, and Caesar of course, who said

that the Rhine had more than two outlets were

criticised by Asinius Pollio (Strab. iv. p. 192); and

Virgil {Aen. viii. 724, Rhenique bicornis) follows

Pollio's authority. But if the Mosa divided as it

does now, Caesar was right and Pollio was wrong.

Strabo, who had some other authorities for his

description of the Rhine besides Caesar, and perhaps

besides Caesar and Pullio, does not admit Pollio's

statement of the Rhine having a course of 6000

stadia; and yet Pollio's estimate is much below the

truth. Strabo says that the length of the river in

a right line is not much above one-half of Pollio's

estimate, and that if we add 1000 stadia for the

windings, that will be enough. This assertion and

his argument founded on the rapidity of the stream,

show that he knew nothing of the great circuit that

the Rhine makes between its source and Basle. He

knew, however, that it flowed north, but unluckily

he supposed the Seine also to flow north. He also

made the great mistake of affirming that the county

of Kent may be seen from the mouths of the Rhine.

He says that the Rhine had several sources, and he

places them in the Adulas, a part of the Alps.

In the same mountain mass he piaces the source of

the Aduas, or Addua {Adda), which flows south

into the lake Larius {Logo di Como). [Addua.]

The most difficult question about the Rhine is the

outlets. When Pliny and Tacitus wrote, Drnsus

the brother of Tiberius had been on the lower Rhine,

and also Germaiiicus, the son of Drusus, and other

Roman commanders. Pliny (iv. 14) speaks of

the Rhenus and the Mosa as two distinct rivers.

In another passage (iv. 15) he says that the

Rhine has three outlets: the western, named Helium,

flows into the Mosa; the most northerly, named

Flevum, flows into the lakes {Zuider Zte); and tho

middle branch, which is of moderate size, retains

the name Rhenus. He supposed that there were

islands in the Rhine between the Helium and the

Flcvum; and the Batavorum Insula, in which were

the Canninefates also, is one of them. He also

places between these two branches the islands of the

Krisii, Chauci, Frisiabones, Sturii, and Marsacii.

The Flevum of Pliny corresponds to the Flevo of

Mela [Klkvo Lact»], who mentions this branch

and only another, whicli he calls the Rhenus, which

corresponds to Pliny's Rhenus. Mela mentions no

other outlets. He considered the third to be the

Mosa, we may suppose, if he knew anything about

it

Tacitus {Ann. u. 6) observes that the Rhino

z z 2

