238 MACINA. MAC ETA.

its origin in a lake near Ancyra, and, after flowing for

■nine distance in a western direction, it turned

northward, and joined the Rhyndacus a little to the

north of Miletopolis. (Strab. xii. p. 576; Plin.

t. 40.) It seems to be the same river as the one

called by Polybius Mcgistus (v. 77), though the

Scholiast on Apollonius Khodius (i. 1162) remarks,

that in his time the Rhyndacus itself bore that

name. The lower part of the river now bears the

name Sum or Siuut/herli, while the upper part is

called Simaul-Su. (Hamilton's Rttearche*, vol. ii

pp. 105, 111.) [L. S.]

MA'CETA (MAtera, Nearch. Peripl. p. 22:

C. Miizsthhnn), a promontory of Arabia, at the en­

trance of the Persian gulf, opposite the promontory

Hannozon in Carmuuia. (Strab. xv. p. 726, xvi. p.

765.) It was on the coast of the Macae, and is,

therefore, called by Strain) (xvi. p. 765) a promon­

tory of the Macae, without giving it any special

name. It formed the MV. extremity of the moun­

tains of the Asabi, and is, therefore, called by Pto-

letnv (vi. 7. § 12), to 'Aaa&xr lutpov.

MA'CETAE, MACETIA. [Macedonia.]

MACHAERL'S (Mav.a«K>»f: Eth. Max<upfrr/r,

Joseph.), a strong fortress of Peraea, first mentioned

by Joscphus in connection with Alexander the son of

Hyrcanua I., by whom it was originally built. {Ant.

xi'ii. 16. § 3; Bell. JiuL vii. 6. § 2.) It was de­

livered by his widow to her son Aristobnlus, who

first fortified it against Gabinius {Ant. xiv. 5. § 2.)

to whom he afterwards surrendered it, and by whom

it was dismantled (§ 4; Strab. xvi. p. 762). On

his escape from Home Aristobnlus again attempted

to fortify it; but it was taken after two days' siege

(vi. 1). It is however celebrated in the history of

Herod the Tetrarch, and St. John the Baptist. It

was situated in the mountains of Arabia (vp&j toij

'ApaSion Spxriv) (5. § 2), and on the confines of

Herod's jurisdiction and that of Aretas king of

Arabia, his father-in-law, but at this time the his­

torian expressly states that it belonged to the latter

(xviii. 6. § 1.), being the southern extremity of

Peraea, as Pclla was the northern, (fl. J. iii. 3. § 3,

iv. 7. § 5.) When Herod's first wife, the dunghUr of

Aretas, first suspected her husband's guilty passion

for Herudias, his brother Philip's wife, she dis­

sembled her indignation, and requested to be sent

to Machaerus, whence she immediately proceeded to

Petra, her father's capital. The fact of Machaerus

being then subject to the jurisdiction of Aretas pre­

sents an insuperable difficulty to the reception of

Joseplms's statement that it was the place of St.

John the Baptist's martyrdom: for suffering, as he

did in one view, as a martyr for the conjugal rights

of the daughter of Aretas, it is impossible to believe

that Herod could have had power to order his exe­

cution in that fortress, (xviii. 6. §§ 1, 2.) It held

out against the Romans after the fall of Jerusalem,

and the account of its siege and reduction by the

lieutenant Lucilius Bassus furnishes us with the

most detailed account of this remarkable fortress,

which Pliny (v. 15) reckons second to Jerusalem

for the strength of its works. Josephus's account

is as follows. It was situated on a very high bill,

ami snrnmnded with a wall, trenched about on all

aides with valleys of enormous depth, so as to defy

embankments. Its western side was the highest,

and on this quarter the valley extended 60 stadia,

as far as the Dead Sea. On the north and south

the valleys were not so steep, but still such as to

render the fortress unusaailable, and the eastern

valley had a depth of 100 cubits. It hid been se­

lected by Herod, on account uf its proximity to ttie

Arabs and the natural advantages of its poaitiou.

and he had enclosed a large space within its walls,

which was strengthened with towers. Tbia formed

the city: but the summit of the bill was the acro­

polis, surrounded with a wall of its own: flanked

with corner towers of 160 cubits in height. In tbe

middle of this was a stately palace, laid out in large and

beautiful chambers, and furnished with numerous

reservoirs for preserving the rain water. A shrub of

rue, of portentous size, grew in the palace yard, equal

in height and bulk to any fig-tree. A large store

of missiles and military engines was kept there so

as to enable its garrison to endure a protracted

siege. Bassus proposed to assail it on the east side.

and commenced raising banks in the valley, and th«

garrison, having left the city and its inhabitant! to

their fate, betook themselves to the acropolis, fnra

which they made a succession of spirited sallies

against the besiegers. In one of these a youth

named Eleazar, of influential connections, fell into

the hands of the Romans, and the garrison capitu­

lated on condition that his lite was spared, and he

and they allowed to evacuate the place in safety.

A fow of the inhabitants of tbe lower city, thus

abandoned, succeeded in effecting their escape: but

17O0 males were massacred, and the women aiui

children sold into captivity. (/?. J. vii. 6.) lta

site has not been recovered in modern times; but it

is certainly wrongly placed by Pliny at the South

of the Dead Sea (vii. 16; Reland, t. f. p. 880).

The account given by Josephus of the copious hot

springs of bitter and Bweet water, of the sulphnr

and alum mines in the valley of Baaras, which he

places on the north of the city of Machaerus. seems

rather to ]>oint to one of the ruined sites, noticed by

Irby and Mangles, to the northern part of tbe Dead

Sea, in the vicinity of Callirrboe, where these pbae-

nomena are still found; but not the peculiarly

noxious tree, of the same name as the valley, whii-h

was deadly to the gatherer, but was a specific against

daemoniacal possession. [Camjrrikik.] (Irby

and Mangles, TrartU, pp. 464, 465.) [<i. W.]

MACHAETE'GI (Maxamryoi; some MSS. rod

Maxaytvui, Ptol. iv. 14. § 11), a people of *' Srythia,

intra Imaum," near the Iastap- [E. B. J.]

MACHELO'NES (MaX«W«, Arrian, PrHpL

p. 11; Anon, p. 15), a subdivision of the Olchian

tribes situated to the S. of the Phasis. Arjcliialu*.

prince of this people, as well as of the Heni<«-lu,

submitted to Trajan. (Dion Cass, lxviii. 19: Bitter,

Erdhnide. vol. x. p. 116.) [E. B. J.]

MA'CHLYES (MdXAwr, Herod, iv. 179; hot.

iv. 3. § 26. vnlg. Mayoi/tt), a Libyan people, in the

S. of Africa Propria (Byzacena), on the river Triton,

and separated by the lake Tritonis from the Loto-

phagi, like whom thev fed upon the lotus. (Cosap.

Flin.vii. 2.) [P.S.]

MACIIU'RES. [Mauietamia.]

MAC1HSII [MAtBKTASIA.]

MA'CHYNI (Ma*./™.), a people of Africa

Propria, whom Ptolemy places S. of the Liby.

Phoenicians, as far as the Leaser Svrtis and the

Machi.viw. (Ptol. iv. 3. §§ 22. 26!) TP.S.]

MACINA (Maxi^f)), a district of Arabia, men­

tioned only by Strabo (xvi. p. 766) as nearest

to Babylonia, bounded on the one side by the dearrt

of Arabia, on another by the marshes uf the Cbal-

daeans, funned by the overflowing of the EuiJirate*.

and on a third by the Persian Gulf. Ita climate

