LAGUSA. 117 LAMIA.

in bis map, identifies it with Folyaegu!". (Strab. x.

fk 484: Steph. B. s. v.; Eustath. ad II. ii. 623,

p. 306.)

LAGI7SA (Adyowra), one of a group of small

i-Und-s in the bay of Telmissns in Lyeia, 5 stadia

from Telmissns, and 80 from Cissidae. (I'lin. v. 35;

Sleph. B. t. r.; Sladiasm. Mar. Mag. § 226, foil.)

This island is generally considered to be the same

as the modem Panagia di Cordialissa. [L. S.]

LAGl'SSAE, a group of small islands oft' the

coast of Troy, to the north of Tenedos (l'lin. v. 38;

eomp. Enstath. ad Horn. IL ii. p. 306). Their mo­

dern name is Taochan Adassi. [L. S.]

LAISH, the more ancient name of Dan. [Dan.]

LALASIS (AoAoffls, Ptol. v. 8. § 6, where some

MSS. have AaA<un's), a district in Cilicia, extending

lion* Mount Taurus, above the district called Se-

lrntis. Pliny (t. 23) also mentions a town Lalasis

in Isauria, and this town accordingly seems to have

been the capital of the district Lalasis, which may

hart extended to the north of Mount Taurus. It is

probable, moreover, that the Isaurian town of La~

liemda, mentioned by Stephanus B., and which, he

ays, was in his day called Dalisanda, is the same

»s Lalasis: and if so, it is identical with the

Dalisjnda of Hiorocles (p. 710). Basilius of Se-

leoria informs us that the town stood on a lofty

bright, but was well provided with water, and not

destitute of other advantages. (Wesscling, ad HierocL

I e.). From all these circumstances, we might

b? inclined to consider the reading Aa\atris in

Ptolemy the correct one, were it not that the coins

f>f the place all bear the inscription Aa\aatriw.

(Se.tini. p. 96.) [L. S.]

LALEXESIS (AaAniwfv or Aaioivtals, Ptol. v.

'• § 6), a small town in the district of Melitene in

Armenia Minor, on the east of Zoropossus. Its site

i» unknown, and no ancient writer besides Ptolemy

xDentiomj it. [L. S.]

LALETA-XI. [Laeetasi.]

LAMA. [Vet-tomes.]

LAMASBA (/ft'n. Ant. pp. 35, ter, 40: La-

Mjiua, Tab. Peut.), a city of the Massylii, in the

interior of Numidia, near the confines of Mauretania,

52 M. P. from Smri, and 62 from Tamugadi.

lapeaod D'Avezac identify it with Ain-IIazel, nt

the N. foot of the mountains of the Welkd-Abd-en-

S(jvr; but its site seems to agreo better with the

rtGsiderable ruins at Bailna, on the S. of thane

nmnUius, and W. of the M. Aurasius (Jebel-

Awat: Sliaw, Travels, dv. p. 52; Pcllissier,

i-rjAuraliuH Scientifique de lAlgerie, vol. vi. p.

389)." [P. S.]

LAMBEE or LAMBRUS, a river of Northern

Italy, in Gallia Transpadana, noticed by Pliny

an «»the affluents* of the Padus which join that river

« iti left or northern bank. (Plin. iii. 19. s. 23.)

h is still called the Lambro, and rises in a small

lake called the Logo di Pusiano (the Eupilis Lacus

rf Puny), from whence it flows within 3 miles of

Wlm, and enters the Po about midway between the

Tkmo and the Adda. Sidonius Apollinaris con­

sists its stagnant and weedy stream (uleosum Lam-

f™») with the blue waters of the Addua. (Ep.

i 5.) The Tabula as well as the Geographer of

Kuenm give a town of the name of Lambrum, of

»i>*b no trace U found elsewhere. It is probably

* ernption of a station, Ad Lambrum, at the puss-  
■P rf the river of that name, though the Tabula

"rawwly transfers it to the S. side of the Padus.

( rot Peut.; Geo-r. Kav. iv. 30.) [E. II. B.J

LAMBE'SE (Itin. Ant. pp. 32,33,34,40: Tab.

Peut.; AdVSeuVa, PtoL iv. 3. § 29; Lambaesa,

Inscr.; Lambaese, Augustin. adv. Donat. vi. 13;

Lambesitana Colonia, Cyprian. Epiit. 55: Lemba

or Tezzout, large Ru.), one of the most important

cities in the interior of Numidia, belonging to the

Massylii. It lay near the confines of Mauretania,

at the W. foot of M. Aurasius (Jebel Auress), 102

M. P. from Sitifi, 118 from Thrvkste, and 84

from Cikta. It was the station of an entire legion,

the Legio III. Augusta (Atytltov rpinj atSaar-f),

Ptol. I c.; and Inscr.). Its importance is attested by

its magnificent ruins, among which are seen the re­

mains of an amphitheatre, a temple of Aesculapius, a

triumphal arch, and other buildings, enclosed by a

wall, in the circuit of which 40 gates have been

traced, 15 of them still in a good state of pre­

servation. The silence of Procopius respecting such

a city seems to imply that it had been destroyed

before the age of Justinian. (Shaw, Travels, p. 57;

Bruce; Peysonnel; Peiltesier, ExplorationScientiJique.

de tAlgrrie, vol. vi. pp. 388, 389.) [P. S.]

LAMBM'ACA or LAMBRTCA, a town of the

Callaici Lucenses in Gallaecia, near the confluence

of the rivers Laeron and Ulla, not far from EU

Padron. (Mela, iii. I. § 8; Ukert, vol. ii. pt. I.

p. 439.) [P. S.]

LAMETI'NI (Aa/unru'oi), a city of Bruttium,

mentioned only by Stephanus of Byzantium (». ».),

on the authority of Hecataeus, who added that there

was a river also of the name of Lametus (AaVirroy).

We find this again alluded to by Lycophron. (Alex.

1085.) There can be no doubt that this is the

6tream still called Lamato, which flows into the

gulf of Sta. Eufemia: and this is confirmed by the

authority of Aristotle, who gives to that gulf, other­

wise known as the Sinus Terinaeus or Hip-

poniates, the name of the Lametine Gui.f (i

Aciutjtu'oi k6\itos, Arist. Pol. vii. 10). Hence

there can be little doubt that the city of Lametini

also was situated on the shores of the same bay,

though Stephanus vaguely calls it " near Crotona."

(Steph. B. I. c.) No other writer mentions the name

(which is evidently an ethnic form like Leontini),

and it is probable that the town was destroyed or

sunk into a dependent condition at an early period.

An inscription, which records it as an existing mu­

nicipal town in the time of Trajan, is almost cer­

tainly spurious. (Mommsen, Inscr. Reqn. Nenp.

App. No. 936.) It is generally supposed to have

been situated either at or near the modern village of

Sta. Eufemia, but this is mere coi jecture. [E.ll.B]

LA'MIA (Aciuia: Eth. Aaputis : Zib'mi). a town

of the Malienses, though afterwards separated from

them, situated in the district Phthiotis in Thcssaly.

Strabo describes Lamia as situated above the plain

which lies at the foot of the Miliar gulf, at tho

distance of 30 stadia from the Sperchcius, and

50 stadia from tho sea (ix. pp. 433, 435). Livy

says that it was placed on a height distant

seven miles from Heracleia, of which it com­

manded the prospect (xxxvi. 25), and on the route

which led from Thermopylae through the parses of

Phthiotis to Thaumaci (xxxii. 4). Strabo further

relates that it was subject to earthquakes (i. p. 60).

Lamia is celebrated in history on account of the war

which the Athenians and the confederate Greeks

carried on against Antipatcr in B.C. 323. Antipatcr

was at first unsuccessful, and took refuge in Lamia,

where he was besieged for some time by the allies.

From this circumstance this contest is usually called

13

