236 MACEDONIA. MACEDONIA.

like Actinia, after the destruction of Corintli, which

occurred two years afterwards, B.C. 146. From that

time to the reign of Augustus the Iiouuns had the

troublesome duty of defending Macedonia, auainst the

people of Illyricum and Thrace; during that period,

they established culonies at Philippi, Pella, Stobi, and

Dium.

At the division of the provinces, Macedonia fell to

the senate (Dion Cass. liii. 12 j Strab. xvii. p. 840).

Tiberius, united the provinces of Achaia and Mace­

donia to the imperial government of Moesia, in order

to deliver tliein from the weight of the proconsular

administration (lac. Ann. 176—80, v. 10), and this

continued till the time of Claudius (Suet. Claud. 25;

Dion Cass. lx. 24). Afterwards it was again under

a " propraetor," with the title "proconsul" (Orelli,

Inacr. n. 1170 (Vespasian); n. 3851 (Caracalla),

while mention often occurs of "legate" (Orelli,

n. 3658) and " quaestores" (Orelli, nn. 822, 3144).

Thcssalonica, the most populous city in Macedonia,

was the scat of government, and virtually the capital

of Greece and Illyricum, as well as of Macedonia.

Under Constantine, Macedonia, was one of the two

government* of the praefecture of Illyricum, and

consisted of six provinces, Achaea, Macedonia, Crete,

Thcssaly, Old Epirus, and New Epirus (Marquardt,

t'» Becker. Horn. AUertJiiim, vol. Hi. pt. i. pp. 115—

119). The ravages indicted by the northern na­

tions on the frontier provinces were so continual that

the inhabitants of Thrace and Macedonia were greatly

diminished, the uncultivated plains were traversed

by armed bands of Sclavonians, who gradually settled

in great numbers in Macedonia, while many moun­

tainous districts, and most of the fortified places still

remained in the pieisession of the Greeks, who were

driven into the Chalcidic peninsula, or into the low

grounds near the sea, where the marshes and rivers

which intersect them, offered means of resistance;

but the existence of the ancient race may be said to

terminate with the reign of Herarlius. (Comp. Scha-

farik, Slat: Alt. vol. ii. pp. 153—164.) The em­

perors of Constantinople attempted to remedy the

depopulation of their empire by transporting Asiatic

colonies. Thus a colony of Persians was established

on the banks of the Axius ( Vardar) as early as the

reign of Theophilus, A. I). 829—842, and it long

continued to furnish recruits for a cohort of the im-

periaj guard, which bore the name of Vardariots. In

A.D. 1065 a colony of Uzes was settled in Mace­

donia, whose chiefs rose to the rank of senators, and

filled high ofhVial situations at Constantinople (Scy-

Htz. ad cale. Ceilreni, p. 868; Zonar. vol. ii. p. 273;

Ann.Comn. p. 195). Amu Coinnena (pp. 109, 315)

mentions col -nies of Turks established near Achrida

ls-fore the reign of her father (a. i>. 1081). These

and other nations were often included under the ge­

neral name of Turks, and ilnli<ed most of them were

descended from Turkish tribes. (Finlay, Mediaeval

Greecr, p. 31.)

IV. J'tiysical and Comparative Geography.

The large space of country, which lies to the N.

of the Cambunian chain, is in great part mountainous,

occupied by lateral ridgca or elevatimis, which con­

nect themselves with the main line of Scanlus. It

also comprises three wide alluvial basins, or plains

which are of great extent, and well adapted to

cultivation; the northernmost of the three, contains

the sources and early course of the Axius, now the

plain of TetUieo vr JCaltandele: the second is that

of Bilolia, coinciding to a great extent, with that of

ancient Pelagonia, wherein the Erigon flows towards

the Axius; and the larger and more undulating

basin of Grerend and Anaieltizn, containing lb*

Upper Ilaliacmon with its confluent streams.

These plains, though of high level above the sea. are

yet very fertile, each generally bounded by mountain*,

which rise precipitously to an alpine height, a:>d

each leaving only one cleft for drainage by a single

river, the Axius, the Erigon, and the llalijum «

respectively. The fat rich land to the E. of I'inJct

and Scanlus is described as forming a marked iim-

trust with the light calcareous soil of the Albanian

plains and valleys on the \V. side (comp Grote, 11 uL

of Greece, exxv.).

Upper Macedonia was divide,] into Eumeia,

Eokimea, Orestis and Lynckstih; of these sub­

divisions, Elimeia comprehended the modern districts

of Grevend, Verija, and Tjertembd; Eordaea thus*

of Budjd, Sarigkiul, and 'Ontrovo; Orestis those of

Grdmuta, Aruuelitza, and Uraturia ; and Lyncestis

Filirina, and all the S. part of the basin of th*

Erigon. These seem to have been all the districts

which properly belonged to Upper Macedonia, tJst

country to the N. as far as Illyricum to the W. and

Thrace to the E. constituting Pakoma, a part of

which (probably on the Upper Axius) was a separate

kingdom as late as the reign of Cassander (Diod.

xx. 19),but which in its widest sense was the great

belt of interior country which covered on the N. and

NE. both Upper and Lower Macedonia; the latter

containing the maritime and central provinces, which

were the earliest acquisition of the kings, namely,

PiF.rtiA, Bottiakis, Ematiiia and Mtodoxia.

Pieria, or the district of Katerina, forms the »1 |«

of the range of mountains of which Olympus is the

highest peak, and is separated from Magnesia on

the S. by the Peneius (Salamarria). The real

Emathin is in the interior of Macedonia, and did not

in its proper sense extend towards the sea, from whiili

it is separated by Pieria and part of the anririit

Bottiaeis. Mygdonia comprehended the plains

around SuUmild, together with the valleys of Klitt'i

and Bejikia. extending westward to the Axios, an-i

including the lake Balbe to the E The nai«

CiiALCiniCK is applied to the whole of the ^r.-st

peninsula lying to the S. of the ridge U Ml

Khortidtzi.

An account of these subdivisions will be foond

under their different heads, with a list of the towns

belonging to each.

Macedonia was traversed by the great mifitarr

road — the Via Eonatia; this route lias been

already described [Vol. II. p. 36] as far as Hera-

cleia Lyncestis, the first town on the confine* of

Illyricum; pursuing it from that point, the following

are the stations up to Ampbipohs, where it entered

Thrace, properly so called: —

Heracleia.

Cellae - - 'Ottroro.

Edi*>a - - Vodhmd.

Pella - . AtiUiri.

Mutatio Gephyra - Bridge oftie Vardhiri.

Thessnlonica - - SnbmiLL

Melissurgis - - Melijturgus.

Apollonia - - Pollina.

Amphipolia - - A'eoHJioirio.

From the Via Egnatia several roads bran, bed off !»

the N. and S., the latter leading to tlie S prtivinre*

of Macedonia and to Thessaly; the tinner inio

Paeouia, Dardania, Moeaia, and as far as tuo

Danube.

