MESSENE. &S9 MESSENE.

depot and picturesque structures of this class in I The northern gate, leading
to Megalopolis in Ar-

Graece. | cadia (Paus. iv. 33. §3), is one of the finest speci-

Lh4

www

FLAJT OF THE RUINS OP MESSENE.

A. Arcadian or Megalopolitan Gate.

mens of Greek military architecture in existence.

It* form is seen in the preceding plan. It is a email

fortress, containing double gates opposite to one

toother, and connected by a circular court of 62

feet in diameter. In front of the outer gate on

other side is a strong rectangular tower. Upon

entering the court through the outer gate, there is a

»the oo each side for a statue, with an inscription

««r it The one on the left hand is still legible,

ind mentions Qnintus Plotius Kuphemion as the re-

**«■ (Bockb, Inter. No. 1460). Pausanias (iv.  
33. §3) notices in this gate a Hermes in the Attic

rtrle, which may possibly have stood in one of these

a*i*«. Leake observes that the interior masonry

rf the circnlar court is the most exact and beautiful

He ever uw. The lower course is a row of stones,

«*eb about 5} in length and half as much in height;

np» this is placed another course of stones of equal

feagtb and of half the height, the joints of which are

ptQMfy over the centre of each stone in the lower

coune. The upper part of the walls has fallen:

ftio* courses are the most that remain. Neither

fscway retains its covering, but the flat architrave

* the inner one lies in an oblique position upon the  
rain* of the wall by which it was formerly supported;

h mn»ares 18 feet 8 inches in length by 4 feet 2

i*be» in breadth, and 2 feet 10 inches in thickness.

The road still leads through this gate into the circuit

of the ancient city. The ruins of the towers, with

the interjacent curtains, close to the gate on the dope

of Mount Ithome, show this part of the fortifications

to have resembled a chain of strong redoubts, each

tower constituting a fortress of itself. '* A flight of

steps behind the curtain led to a door in the flank of

the tower at half its height. The upper apartment,

which was entered by the door, had a range of loop­

holes, or embrasures, on a line with the door, looking

along the parapet of the curtain, and was lighted by

two windows above. The embrasures, of which there

are some in each face of the towers, have an opening

of 7 inches within, and of 3 feet 9 inches without, so

that, with a small opening, their scope is very great.

The windows appear to be too high for any purpose

but to give light. Both the curtains and towers in

this part of the walls are constructed entirely of

large squared blocks, without rubble or cement. The

curtains are 9 feet thick. The inner face of the

towers has neither door nor window. The tower

next to the gate of Megalopolis has had all the stones

disjointed, like those of the Pmpylaea at Athens,

probably by an earthquake." The towers are in ge­

neral about 25 feet square, projecting about 14 feet

from a curtain varying in length according to the

nature of the ground, and 8 or 10 feet in thickness.

z 2

