ICABUSA. II ICIITHYOPHAGI.

99; Ptol. t. 2. § 30; P. Mela, ii. 7.) Modem writers

derive the name of Icaria from the Ionic word nipa,

a pasture (Hesych. s. v. K-ip), according to which it

would mean "the posture land." In earlier times

it is said to have been called Doliche (Plin. L c;

Callim. Hymn, in Dion. 187), Maoris (Plin. L c;

EusUth. ad Dionys. Per. 530; Liv. xxvii. 13), and

Ichthyuessa (Plin. L c). Respecting the present con­

dition of ihe island, see Tournefort, Voyage du Le­

vant, ii. lett. 9. p. 94; and Ross, lieisen auf den

Orieck. I rutin, vol. ii. p. 164, fol. [I.. K.J

COW OF1 OB30E OR OKNAK, IN ICARUS.

ICARUSA, a river the embonc.ho.re of which is

on the E. coast of the Euxine, mentioned only by

Pliny (vi. 5). Icarosa answers to the Vkrash river;

and the town and river of Hieros is doubtless the

Hikros PoRTUS (Uphi Aip^r) of Arrian (PeripL

p. 19), which has been identified with Sunjtii-kala.

(Keimell. Compar. Geog. vol. ii. p. 328.) [E. B. J.]

ICAUSUS or 1CAUNA (Fonne), iu Gallia, a

river which is a branch of the Sequana (Seine').

Antcsiodurum or Autessiodnrum (Auzerre) is on

the }'ome. The name Icaunns is only known from

inscriptions. DAnville (Notice, <fc., s. v. Icauna)

Mates, on the authority of the Abbe" le Beuf, that

there was found on a stone on the modem wall of

Anxerre the inscription dkak ICAVXL He sup­

poses that Icanni ought to be Icanniae, but without

any good reason. He also adds that the name

Icauna appears in a writing of the fifth century.

According to Ukert (GaBien, p. 145), who also cites

Le Beuf, the inscription is "Deabus Icauni." It is

•aid that in the ninth century Auxtrre was named

Icauna, Hionna, Jnnia. (Millin, Voyage, i. p. 167,

cited by Ukert, Gallien, p. 474.) Icauna is as

likely to be the Roman form of the original Celtic

name as Icaunus. [G. I..]

ICENI, in Britain. Tacitus is the only author

who gives us the exact form Iceni. He mentions

them twice.

First, they are defeated by the propraetor P. Os-

tnrius, who, after fortifying the valleys of the Autona

(Aufbna) and Sabrina, reduces the Iceni, and then

inarcnes against the Cangi, a population sufficiently

distant from Norfolk or Suffolk (the area of the

Iceni) to be near the Irish Sea. {Ann. xii. 31, 32.)

The difficulties that attend the geography of the

campaign of Ostorius have been indicated in the

article Camcioduxvm. It is not from this passage

that we fix the Iceni.

The second notice gives us the account of the

ITeat rebellion under Boadicea, wife of Prasutagus.

From this we infer that Camulodunnm was not far

from the Icenian area, and that the Trinobantes were

a neighbouring population. Perhaps we arc justi­

fied in carrying the Iceni as far south as the fron­

tiers of Essex and Herts. (Ann. xiv. 31—37.)

The real reason, however, for fixing the Iceni lies

in the assumption that they are the same as the

Simcni of Ptolemy, whose town was Venta (A'or-

n'cA or Caistor); an assumption that is quite rea-

sucable, since the Venta of Ptolemy's Simcni is men­

tioned in the Itinerary as the Ventn Icenorum, and

in contradistinction to the Venta Belgarum ( Win­

chester). [R. G. L.]

ICH ('Ix)i » river of Central Asia which only

occurs in Menander of Byzantium (Hist. Legal. Bar-

baroruin ad Romanos, p. 300, ed. Niebuhr, Bonn,

1829), snrnamed the "Protector," and contempo­

rary with the emperor Maurice, in the 6th century

after Christ, to whom comparative geography is

indebted for much curious information about the

basin of the Caspian and the rivers which discharge

themselves into it on the K. Niebuhr has recognised,

in the passage from Menander to which reference

has been made, the first intimation of the knowledge

of the existence of the lake of Aral, after the very

vague intimations of some among the authors of the

classical period. Von Humboldt (Asie Centralc,

vol. ii. p. 186) has identified the Ich with the£ra4a

or Djem, which rises in the mountain range Ai-

ruruk, not far from the sources of the Or, and, after

traversing the sandy steppes of Saghiz and Ba-

kmtnibn'i, falls into the Caspian at its NE. comer.

(Comp. Levchine, Hordes el Steppes des Kirqhiz-

Kazalci, p. 65.) [E. B. J.]

ICHAXA ('Ixara: Eth, 'Ixarirot), a city of

Sicily, which, according to Stephunus of liyzantium,

held out for a long time against the arms of the

Syracusans, whence he derives its name (from the

verb Ixavdu, a form equivalent to laxavdu), but

gives us no indication of the period to which this

statement refers. The Ichanenses, however, are

mentioned by Pliny (iii. 8. s. 14) among the sti­

pendiary towns of the interior of Sicily, though,

according to Sillig (ad loc.), the true reading is

Ipanenses. [Hippaha.] In either case we have

no clue to the position of the city, and it is a mere

random conjecture of Cluverius to give the name of

Ichana to the ruins of a city which still remain at

a place called Vindkari, a few miles N. of Cape

Pachynum, and which were identified (with still

less probability) by Fazello as those of Imachara.

[Imachara.] [E. H. B.]

ICHNAE ('Ix«"), a city of Bottiaca, in Mace­

donia, which Herodotus (vii. 123) couples with l'ella.

(Leake, Travels in Northern Greece, vol. iv. p.

582.) [E.B.J.]

ICHNAE Ox"", Isid. Char. p. 3; Stepli. B.

«.»'), a small fortified town, or castle, in Meso­

potamia, situated on the river Bilecha, which itself

flowed into the Euphrates. It is said by Isidbrus to

have owed its origin to the Macedonians. There

can be little doubt that it is the same place as is

called in Dion Cassius 'Ixwoi (xl. 12), and in Plu­

tarch "rffx«" (Crass, c. 25). According to the

former writer, it was the place where Crassus over-

camo Talymcnus: according to the latter, that to

which the younger Crassus was persuaded to fly

when wounded. Its exact position cannot be deter­

mined; but it is clear that it was not far distant

from the important town of Carrhae. [V.]

ICC1US PORTUS. [Itius.]

ICHTHYO'PHAGI (Tx*i»<jKryo., Diod. iii. 15,

seq.; Herod, iii. 19 ; Pausan. i. 33. § 4; Plin. vi. 30.

s. 32), were one of the numerous tribes dwelling

on each shore of the Red Sea which derived their

appellation from the principal article of their diet.

Fish-eaters, however, were not confined to this region:

in t he present day, savages, whose only diet is fi»h cast

ashore and cooked in the sun, are found on the coasts

of New Holland. The Aethiopian Ichthyophagi, who

appear to have been the most numerous of these

