744 SOMA,

ROMA.

under Alaric, Koine was captured and sacked on

a third occasion in 410 (a. u. c. 1163) — the

first time since the Gallic invasion that the city

hail actually been in the hands of an enemy. But

though it was plundered by the Goths, it does not

appear tn have sustained much damage at their

hands. They evacuated it on the sixth day, and all

the mischief they seem to have done was the setting

fire to some houses near the Salarian gate, by which

they had entered, which unfortunately spread to

and destroyed the neighbouring palace of Sallust

(Procop. B. V. i. 2.) Nearly half a century later, in

the reign of Maximos, Rome was again taken, and

sacked by the Vandals, under Genseric, A. D. 455.

This time the pillage tasted a fortnight; yet the

principal damage inflicted on the monuments of the

city was the carrying oft' by Genseric of the curious

tiles of gilt bronze which covered the temple of the

Capitoline Jupiter (lb. 5). That edifice, with the

exception, perhaps, of the spoliation by Slilicho,

appears to have remained in much the same state

as after its last rebuilding by Domitian; and though

paganism had been abolished in the interval, the

venerable fane seems to have been respected by the

Koman Christians. Yet, as may be perceived from

an edict of the emperor Majorian, a. d* 457, the

inhabitants of Koine had already commenced the

disgraceful practice of destroying the monuments of

their ancestors. The /.eal of the Christians led them

to deface some of the temples; others, which had not

been converted into Christian churches, were suffered

to go to min, or were converted into quarries, from

which building materials were extracted. Petitions

for that purpose were readily granted by the magis­

trates; till Majorian cheeked the practice by a severe

edict, which reserved to the emperor and senate the

cognisance of those cases in which the destruction of

an ancient building might be allowed, imposed a fine

of 50 lbs. of gold ('2000/. sterling) on any magis­

trate who granted a license for such dilapidations,

and condemned all subordinate officers engaged in

Such transactions to be whipped, and to have their

hands amputated (Aror. Major, tit. vi. p. 35: " An-

liquarum aedium disaipatur speciosa constructio; et

tit earum aliquid reparetur magna diruuntur," &c.)

In tin- yt'.ir 47"2, in the reign of Olybrius, Koine

was for the third time taken and sacked by Kicimer;

but this calamity, like the two former ones, does not

Appear to have been productive of much damage to

the public monuments. These relics of her former

glory were the especial aire of Theodoric, the Os­

trogoth, when lie became king of Italy, who, when

he visited the capital in the year 500, hail surveyed

them with admiration. u The Gothic kings, so in­

juriously accused of the ruiu of antiquity, were

anxious to preserve the monuments of the nation whom

they had subdued. The royal edicts were framed to

prevent the abuses, the neglect, or the depredations of

the citizens themselves; and a professed architect, the

annual sum of 200 lbs. of gold, 25,000 tiles, and the

receipt of customs' from the Lucrine port, were as­

signed for the ordinary repairs of the walls and

public edifices. A similar care was extended to the

statues of metal or marble, of men or animals. The

spirit of the horses, which have given a modern

name to the Quirinal, was applauded by the bar­

barians; the brazen elephants of the Via Sacra were

diligently restored; the famous heifer of Myron

deceived the cattle as they were driven through the

forum of Peace; and an officer was created to protect

those works of art, which Theodoric considered as

the noblest ornament of his kingdom.* (GVfcUa,

Jkcline and Fall, vol. v. p. 21, ed. Smith ; d £*-

eerpL de Odoac. Theod. 67.) The letters of Cm-

siodorus, the secretary of Theodoric, show that Bn

had received little or no injury from its tana a

hires. The Circus Maxim us was uwojared, i

Ludi Circenses were still exhibited there (Is

51); the thermae and aqueducts were intact (Hi

6); the Claudian aqueduct was still in pltf,I

discharged itself on the top of the Avenue* ■

were a valley (lb.). That the aqueducts i

also appears from Procopius (B. G. L 19). v&sa

that in the subsequent siege under Voip^ I

Goths broke them down, to deprive the i

of their supply of water. The theatres bad si

only from the effects of time, and were rtpaTti^

Theodoric (Cassiod. ib. \v. 51.)

In the year 536 the Gothic earrawo, t

exception of their commander Leadens, **> |

ferred captivity to flight, evacuated Kant <

approach of ltelisarius, the lieutenant of 1m

Belisarius entered by the Asinarian gate, i

an alienation of sixty years, Rome was |

the imperial dominion. But in a few i

city was beleaguered by the numerous best sff

the newly elected king of the Goths; iad i

fence demanded all the valour and ability sf ^

sarins. For this purpose he repaired tat 1

which had again fallen into decay. Regular \

were constructed; a chain was drawn

Tiber; the arches of the aqueduct* wei

and the mole of Hadrian was converted i

del. That part of the wall between the 1

and Pincian gates, called vxuro tario, i

neglected (Procop. B. G. i. 14. fcqq ), which as

have been regarded both by Goths and I

under the peculiar protection of St. Peter,

have before said, the Goths invested theory I

divisions, from the Porta FUminia to tat f

Praenestina; whilst a seventh

formed near the Vatican, for the purpose t

manding the Tiber and the Milvian bodge,

general assault which followed, a feint was I

the Salarian gate, but the principal

directed against the mole of Hadrian and tat|

l'iacik\-4ni:i. It was. on ■•: li.iti

former point the finest statues, the works sf 1

teles and Lysippus, were converted into 1

missiles, and hurled down upon the besiegera

the ditch of St. Angelo was cleansed ia the |

cate of Urban VIII., the Sleeping Faun sf I

berini Palace was discovered, but in a sadly ■

state. (Winckelmann, I/UL <h VA rj.vol.il \

But the assault was not successful, and i

less siege, which lasted a year, the

forced to retire.

After the recall of Belisarius the Guths:

strength and courage, and, under TotHa. <

threatened the walls of i; i .. In 544

was again despatched into Italy, to

faults of the generals who had succeeded .

on this occasion he wait deserted by his i

tune, and, after a fruitless attempt to

city, was compelled to retreat to Ostia.

B. O. iii. 19.) In December, 546, the \

admitted into the city by the treachery *

[saurian sentinels posted at the

Rome was again subjected to pillage,

to have suffered more than on any former I

A third part of the walls was destroyed

places, and a great many houses tr

