840 [;um,\ ROMA.

sort of barracks as early as the time of Gull a. (Tnc.

II. i. 31; Plut. Galb. 25.)

Several objects mentioned in this district are

doubtful as to site, and even as to meaning, ami are

not important enough to demand investigation. It

contained Tiiumphal Akchks of Ci.Armrs

ami M. AuKELIua. The Litter subsisted in a

tolerably perfect state near the Piazza Fiona in the

Coivo, till the year 1662, when j-oj-e Alexander VII.

Caused it to be pulled down. Its reliefs still adorn

t lie staircase of the PalttttQ de Cuttgervatori. (Ca-

nina, Indieaz, p. 220.)

ARCI1 OF AVRE 1.1 US.

We shall conclude this section with noticing a

very humble but very useful object, the FORUM

StArtu M. Daeon was an article of great consump­

tion at Home. It was distributed, as well as bread,

among the people, and its annual consumption in

the time of Valentin inn 111. was estimated at

3,628,000 pounds. (Gibbon, Decline and Fail,

vol. iv. p. 85, cd. Smith.) The custom of distribut­

ing it had been introduced by Aurelian. (VopisC

Avrcl. 25.) A country in which hogs'-flesh is the

cheapest meat betrays a low state of fanning. The

swine still abounds in Italy: but in ancient times the

Roman market was principally supplied from the

forests of Lucania. The market was important

enough to have its special tribune, and the " pig-

men of the eternal city" (" Popcinarii Urbis aeternae")

were considered such a useful body that peculiar

privileges were granted to them. {Cod. xi. lit. 16;

A*o/. l)i(jnil. Part. Occ. p. 16; Grater, Inecr,

cdxxx. 4.) The market is alluded to in a sort of

proverbial manner by PhUostratUS (&Ti/<a rt wal

Kotva. <pva.iT 6,i', wiiirtp 4v avu'V ayopifr Heroic

p. 283. 19, ed. Kayser.). It is supj>osed to have

stiKKi near the present church of S. Croce del

f/uceketif which was substituted for that of 5.

Nieold in PordWnu, (Carina, India* p. 209;

1'reller, Uenimtn, p. 139.)

XIV. The TiiANSTinr.niNE District.

Although the district beyond the Tiber formed

one of the 14 Regions of Augustus, and although

part of it may perhaps have been enclosed with n

wall ns early as the time of Aliens MarctUS, and was

certainly included in that of Aurelian, yet, while it

was considered a part of Kome, it never belonged to

the Urbs, properly so called. The distinction be-

tween Roma and Crbs was st Inst as old t* tb

lime of Augustus, and was thus Utd osn tv

Alfenus Varus: M Ut Alfenna ait. Urts ert Baaa,

qua muro cingeretur; Roma est etiam. -pa cwav

nentiaaedificia essent.'' (bigttt.L tit 16.L87.) Tat

circumstance rather tends to strengthen SVlawt

opinion that Ancus Marcius only built t ctuadai

the Janiculum, without any wills extending total

river. [See above, Part II. Sect. I. rob 6a] Tat

district in question is naturally divided:

parts, the Mons Janiculus (or JanindsaX I

Mons Vaticanus,— each with their respectiveal

towards the river, — and the Insula Tibentt.

shall begin with the last,

We have already mentioned the legend i

the formation of the Insula Tikkrisa uj

the corn belonging to the Tarquins b^ir< ti

into the river. In the year b. c. 291 tae i

became sacred to AcsmUpius. In

a pest ilence an embassy was despatch**! to I

to bring back to Rome the image of that 4

but instead of the statue came a snake, rats*

it was perfectly known that the god hiiruelfi

tered. As the vessel was passing the

inland the snake swam ashore and hid itself t

consequence of which a Temple of Ae

was built Upon it, and the island evw;

bore the name of the god. (Liv. EpiL:

Met. xv. 739; Val. Max. i. 8. § 2; Dwayi.i

Suet. Claud. 25.) Sick persons resorted Is

temple for a cure; but it docs not \\ \ ■ ar that \

was any hospital near it, as was the cast \

daurus. There is no classical authority I

fact that the sides of the island were afti

walled round in the shape of a stop, with t)

against the current, typifying the vessel is|

brought the deity; but it is said that

this substruction arc still visible. (Cai

p. 574.) The island also contained a Tn

Jititer and a Temple of Fanrca, Nj

cated in B, c. 193. (Liv. xxxiii. 42. ax

The temple of Jupiter appears to have adja

of Aesculapius. (Or. Fast. L 293.) It I

concluded, from the following verses of'

the temple of Faun us must hare stood on ibet

part of i he island (Fast. ii. 193):—

11 Idibus ngrestis fumant altaru Faurri

liic, obi discretas insula rumpii so;

but this, though a probable, is not a sea

ference. Semo Saxcts, or Deus F»dia%»

to have had a sacellum here, as well as Tn

as the river-god is called in the /■

religious books. (Fast Atnit. IV. Id. .

a curious error the early Christu

founded the former deity with Simon

thought that he was worshipped on the i

(Just. Mart. Apol, 2; Euseb. H. Fed ii. 12.)

the building of the two bridges which cocned

island on either side with the shore, it seerwsl

obtained the name of " Inter i*vo& lVorna"

Publ. 8); and this part of the river was leaf I

for the delicious pike caught in it; which

flavour apparently to the rich feeding aftvdfl

the proximity of the hanks. (Pint. PopL 4tj

crob.5af.ii. 12.) In thereto Marfyrvm tmM

is repeatedly styled Insula Lycaonia ; it b at nm

called Isola di S. Bartolommeo, from the cfl

and convent of that name.

The jAinctTUm begins at that point c

Campus Marti us where the Tiber i am haw J

1

