MARUCA. 2S7 MASADA.

Midfarfif* (Mu^HpKtl/j., Cedren. vol. u. pp. 419,

501, ed. Bekker; Ritter, Erdhmde, vol. x. pp. 78,

**). 1087, vol. xi. pp. 67t foil.) [E. B. J.]

MAKITCA. [Socdiasa.]

WARV1NGI {Mapoviyyoi), a German tribe on

llw rx-t of Mons Abnoba, between the Suevi and

the Danube. (Ptol. ii. 11. § 22.) The town of

Belgium (the modern Bamberg) was probably the

capital of ihe Marvingi. (PtoLU. 11. §29.) [L.S.]

MARUNDAE (Mapotrtat, Ptol. vii. 2. § 14),

a people who lived in India extra Gangem, along

the left bank of the Ganges, and adjoining the

(tancaridae [Gaxgaridae]. They are probably

the same as those whom Pliny calls Molindae (vi.

19. a 22), and may perhaps be considered the same

as the native Indian VarcndrL [V.]

MARUS, a tributary of the Danube, into which

it ftiws from the north. Between it and the Casus

a band of exiled Marcomanmans received settlements

from the Romans under Tiberius. (Tac. Ann, ii.

63: Plin. II. jV. iv. 25.) It is generally believed

that this river is the same as the March in Moravia;

but it is more probably identical with the Marosck,

wtiieb the ancients generally call Marisus. [Ma-

Bisrs] [L. S.]

MARII'SIUM, a town which the Jerusalem

Itinerary fixes at 13 M. P. from Clodiana, and 14

M. P. from the river Apsus, on the road to Apol-

fcnia. Colonel Leake's map identifies it with

Lvjna. [E. B. J.]

MARirVTUJI. [Marbuvicm.]

MA SAD A (Mcura5a), a very strong fortress of

Palestine, mentioned by Strabo and Pliny, but mnch

win rally described by Josephus. Strabo mentions

it in connection with the phaenomena of the Dead

Sea, saying that there are indications of volcanic

ai-Jcn in the rugged burnt rocks about Moasada

(Moor&a). Pliny describes it as situated on a

ndc not far from the lake Asphaltis. (Strab. xvi.

p^ 764; PUn.v. 17.) The description of Josephus,

in whose histories it plays a conspicuous part, is as

follows:—A lofty rock of considerable extent, sur­

rounded on all shies by precipitous valleys of fright-

nil depth, afforded difficult access only in two parts;

on* on the east, towards the lake Asphaltis, by a

«ic*ag path, scarcely practicable arid extremely

dangerous, called "the Serpent," from its sinuosi­

ties; the other more easy, towards the west, on

vticb side the isolated rock was more nearly ap­

proached by the hills. The summit of the rock

*u aot pointed, but a plane of 7 stadia in cir-  
nimfereoce, surrounded by a wall of white stone,

12 robits high and 8 cubits thick, fortified with

37 towers of 50 cubits in height. The wall was

joined within by large buildings connected with the

tower*, designed for barracks and magazines for the

eexmoos stores and munitions of war which were

bid up in this fortress. The remainder of the area,

sot occupied by buildings, was arable, the soil

^irig richer and more genial than that of the plain

brlow; and a further provision was thus made for

ttw garrison in case of a failure of supplies

from without. The rain-water was preserved

>° large cisterns excavated in the solid rock. A

[•lace on a grand scale occupied the north-west

awtat, oo a lower level than the fortress, but con-

&*<t*d with it by covered passages cut in the rock.

Too was adorned within with porticoes and baths,

"l^fftfrted by monolithic columns; the walls and

nW were covered with tesselated work. At the

Stance of 1000 cubiU from the fortress a massive

tower guarded the western approach at its narrowest

and most difficult point, and thus completed the

artificial defences of this most remarkable site, which

nature had rendered almost impregnable. Jonathan,

the high-priest, had been the first to occupy this

rock as a fortress, but it was much strengthened

and enlarged by Herod the Great, who designed it

as a refuge for himself, both against his own dis­

affected subjects, and particularly against the more

dreaded designs of Cleopatra, who was constantly

importuning Antony to put her in possession of the

kingdom of Judaea by removing Herod out of the

way. It was in this fortress that the unfortunate

Mariamne and other members of Herod's family were

left for security, under his brother Joseph and a small

garrison, when he was driven from Jerusalem by

Antigonus and his Parthian allies. The fortress

was besieged by the Parthians, and Joseph was on

the point of surrendering for want of water, when a

timely shower filled the cisterns and enabled the

garrison to hold out until it was relieved by Herod

on his return from his successful mission to Rome.

It next figures in the history of the Jewish revolt,

having been occupied first by Manahem, son of

Judas the Galilean, a ringleader of the ticarii, who

took it by treachery, and put the Roman garrison

to the sword; and afterwards by Klcazar and his

partisans, a rival faction of the same murderous

fanatics, by whom it was held for some time after

Jerusalem itself had fallen; and here it wai that

the last scene of that awful tragedy was enacted

under circumstances singularly characteristic of the

spirit of indomitable obstinacy and endurance that

had actuated the Jewish zealots throughout the

whole series of their trials and sufferings. It was

the only stronghold that still held out when Klavius

Silva succeeded Bassus as prefect in Judaea (a. d.

73). The first act of the general was to surround

the fortress with a wall, to prevent the escape of the

garrison. Having distributed sentries along this

line of circumvallation, he pitched his own camp on

the west, where the rock was most nearly approached

by the mountains, and was therefore more open to'

assault; for the difficulty of procuring provisions and

water for his soldiers did not allow him to attempt

a protracted blockade, which the enormous stores of

provisions and water still found there by Kleazar

would have enabled the garrison better to endure.

Behind the tower which guarded the ascent was a

prominent rock of considerable size and height,

though 300 cubits lower than the wall of the fortress,

called the White Cliff. On this a bank of 200

cubits' height was raised, which formed a base for a

platform (fiTjfxa) of solid masonry, 50 cubits in width

and height, on which was placed a tower similar in

construction to those invented and employed in

sieges by Vespasian and Titus, covered with plates

of iron, which reached an additional 60 cubits, so as

to dominate the wall of the castle, which was

quickly cleared of its defenders by the showers of

missiles discharged from the scorpions and balistae.

The outer wall soon yielded to the ram, when an

inner wall was discovered to hare been constructed

by the garrison—a framework of timber filled with

soil, which became more solid and compact by the

concussions of the ram. Thus, however, was speedily

fired. The assault was fixed for the morrow, when

the garrison prevented the swords of the Romans by

one of the most cold-blooded and atrocious massacres

on record. At the instigation of Kleazar, they first

slew every man hw wife and children; then having

