ROMA. 839 ROMA.

«n in n'atenee in the time of the Anonymous of

. nwdleu (Preller, Regionen, p. 171). The assump-

■si I al this pUce was occupied by a stadium built

« Alexander Severus— in which case that of Do-

jtian must be sought in some other part of the

i ■ paa—rata only on traditions of the middle ages

L'aaiaa. In-, p. 392).

Trajan is laid to have built a theatre in the

in:pas Martins, which, however, was destroyed by

Mima. (Spart. Hair. 8.) The same emperor

i M; erected what is called in the Notitia the

uiucA Uajicianes (Marcianae), whicli was

tcaoJy a temple in honour of his sister, Mar-

■aa. The Antonines appear to have adorned this

larter with many buildings The Basilica Ma-

ihes (Matidiae) was perhaps erected by Antoninus

w,aad consecrated to Matidia, the wife of Hadrian;

■ell as the Hadrian im, or temple to Hadrian

nsMf, also mentioned in the Notitia. (Preller,

17S.) The TtJiixi M Astmmsi and Coixmna

icrus wen the temple and pillar erected in

tour of M. Aurelius Antoninus. (Capitol. M. Ant

; Aar. Viet. Epit. 16.) All these buildings

•«i near together in the vicinity of the Piazza

iamaa. on which the column (Columna Antoni-

.iii still exists. For a long while this column

■ thought to be that of Antoninus Pins, and was

rs (VcUred to be such in the inscription placed on

r pedestal during the pontificate of Si.it us V.

r u»< sculptures on the column were subsequently

txiird to relate to the history of Antonine the

ifa>|iar; and this view was confirmed not only

tie few remaining words of the original inscrip-

&. but also by another inscription found in the

: xiring Piazza Si Monte Citorio, regarding a

taiiiun granted to a certain Adrastus, a freed-

n of Septimius Severus and Caracalla, to erect a

sIj boose in the neighbourhood of the column, as

at* of it. This inscription, which is now pre-

nd in the corridor of the Vatican, twice mentions

euiamn as being that u Divi Marci." (Canina,

tic. p. 417, acq.) The column is an imitation of

t 4 Trajan, but not in so pure a style of art.

a senro their name of cochlis from the spiral

mat (cochlea, m%hia%) in the interior of them.

■L Ortg. xt. a, 38.) The Columna Asto.nisi

i was a large pillar of red granite, erected to

MX/tSTAL OF COLIHW OF ANTONINUS PIUS.

I. as appears from the inscription, by M. Aure-

i aas L. Verus. It waa discovered in the

r-t—*- gf Clement XI., in the garden of the

am dcila Miit*nu. on the E. side of the Palazzo

af«oja» Citurm. It broke in the attempt to erect

I: :n 'ii M„uU. Citorio. where the obelisk

r saanda; bat the pedestal with the inscription is

still preserved in the garden of the Vatican. (Canina,

Indie, p. 419.) The sculptures on the pedestal

represent the Apotheosis of Antoninus I'ius and

Faustina.

The Tiikrmae Commodiahae and Alexas-

diuxae will be treated of in the section on the

baths. After the time of Alexander Severus we

find but few new buildings mentioned in this dis­

trict, Gordian III. is said to have entertained the

design of building an enormous portico under the

Tincian hill, but it does not appear that it was ever

executed. (Capitol. G'ora*. ///. c. 32.) Respecting

the Porticus Flaminia, sec the article Pons Mil-

vius. Some porticoes near the Pons Aelius, which

appear to have borne the name of Maximae, were

terminated by the Triumphal Arch of Gratian,

Vauwtimaji, and Theodosius; the inscription on

which will be found in the Anonymous of Einsiedlen,

and in Gruter (clxxii. 1). Claudius, who was prefect

of the city underValentiuian I., erected a portico near

the baths of Agrippa, which he called Pounces

Boni Eventiis, after a neighbouring temple with

the same name (Amm. Marc. xxix. 6. § 19); but

with regard to this temple we have no information.

We shall now proceed to that part of the district

under consideration comprised in the 7th Region of

Augustus, and subsequently called Via Lata, from

the road which bounded its western side, and which

formed the southern extremity of the Via Flaminia.

The most important topographical question con­

nected with this district is the situation of the

Campus Agrippae, and the buildings connected

with it. We have already shown from the situation

of Martial's house, as well as from the probable site

of the templo of Sol, that the Campus Agrippae must

have lain under the western side of the Quirinal, and

not under the Pincian, where Becker places it. It

is probable, too, that it lay on a line with tho Pan­

theon and thermae of Agrippa, although divided

from them by the Via Lata; and hence Canina cor­

rectly describes it as facing the Septa (/mite. p.

215), whilst Urlichs and Preller, in like manner, place

it between the Piazza dtgli Apostoli and the Fon-

tana Trevi. (Beschr, vol. iii. pt. iii. p. 112; Pegionen,

p. 138.) The Campus Agrippae contained gardens,

porticoes, and places for gymnastic exercises, and

was, in short, a kind of Campus Martius in minia­

ture. It was also a favourite lounge and promenade.

(A. Gcll. xiv. 5.) It appears from a passage in

Dion Cassius, that the Campus was not finished

before Agrippa's death, and that it was opened to

the public by Augustus (It. 8.) It contained a

Posticus Polae, so named after Agrippa's sister

Pola or Polla; which is probably the same as that

alluded to by Martial, in some passages before quoted,

under the name of Vipsania. The latter name

seems to be corrupted in the Notitia into Porticus

Ggpaiani. Becker (Hanilb. p. 590) would identify

the Porticus Polae with the POSTICUS Europak,

but they seem to be different structures. (L'rliths, A'wwi.

7opoyr.p.l39.) The latter, which derived its name

from a picture of the rape of Europa, is frequently

mentioned by Martial (ii. 14, iii. 20, xi. 1). Its

situation cannot be determined; but most topo­

graphers place it in the Campus Martius, among the

other buildings of Agrippa. (Canina, Indicaz. p. 409;

Urlichs, Kim. ManfeM, p. 116 ) It appears from

the Notitia that the Campus Agrippae contained

Castra, which, from the Catalogus Imperat. Vietm.

(t. ii. p. 246, Rone), appear to have been dedicated

by Aurdian; but the Porticus Vipsania served as a

