PALAESTINA. PALAESTIKA.

tie borier of the Canaanites was from Sid on, as

•^■a earnest to Gerar, anlo Gaza; as thou goest

*aw Sedan, ami Gomorrah, and Admah, and Ze-  
h«m. rrea onto La&ha ' (x. 15—19). Aa several

— ia:: r< -vur n-- n:or.- in tin- history of Pales-

titst, wr mart tnppose cither that the places reappear

#- other names, or that these tribes, having

■*alir <iW within the limits here assigned,

migrated to the north, where we cer-

awJ? find the Anradites and Hamathites in later

tanea. Of the eleven families above named, the

feic hx are found in the subsequent history of

"-i * country: the descendants of Sidon on the coast

t. *v north: the children of Heth in Hebron, on the

■nth: the Jebuidtea to the north of these, in the

earaaasse ahout Jerusalem; the Amoritcs to the east

•f the HiUites, on the west of the Dead Sea; the

tcs, supposed to be a branch of the llivites

, who were situated north of the Jebu-

ata« a Sherbera and its vicinity. (Gen. xxxiv. 2.)

TW a act le the aoath was wrested from the Canaan-

early times, if they ever possessed it; for

the records of history the Philistines,

of Hixraim, not of Canaan, were mas-

< the greet we*tern plain (x. 14). The die*

nan of iIm country among these tribes is in-

further confusion by the introductiun of

•* fVuaito with tbe Canaanites as joint occupiers

(xiii. 7). and by the fact of the Ca-

arpearing as a distinct tribe, where the

tike Amoritea, the Girgashites, and tlie

t were all alike Canaanites, are sever­

ed (xv. 19—21). It would appear

while the name Canaanites was used in a

restricted sense in the last cited passage, the

</ the particular families were sometimes used

which may account for the

we have already fixed to the

ef laiaii iln in, being found to the north of

art, a the i*eighbourh«>d of Bethel. (Judges,

) It same be, however, that the seats of the

i those early times were not fixed,

with the tide of conquest or with

of a pastoral people: an example

ay be found in the victories of Che-

r {Gem. xir.), *nd of the latter in the many

* of Abraham with his numerous depend-  
* hi- .i^evndants, which finally trans-

t aHsole a£ his posterity into Egypt fur

of soar centuries (xii. 6—10, xiii. 1—

PLxx 1, xxri. 1, &c). To attempt to trace

migrat vm* were a fruitless task: with

very naty notice* which we possess ; but the

aW g—I disposition of the Canaanilish

list period of the Eiaodua of the Israelites

-as mar be approximately ascertained, and  
, jajjajjplMP of the distribution of the land

* hatter. The tribes then in occupation of  
ww to be> seven (Drut. vii. 1), and are

■ ** Canaanites, Hittites, Amorites,

. Jebositea," only six (h'xod. iii. 8,

best m Deuteronomy (/. c.) and Joshua

Gtrgasiiites are added, which completes

Of these the Amoritea occupied the

or probably shared it with the

it was with tbe latter that the

were first brought into collision. (Exod.

9; '',mf xir. 25, 43—45.) This was

« fj>e Mount of the Amorites **

; > aad their relative position with

the other tribes ia thus clearly stated: —

"The Amalekites dwell in the land of the south,

and the Hittites, and the Jebusites, and the Amor­

itea (Joshua, xi. 3, adds the Perizzites), dwell in

the mountains: and the Canaanites dwell by the

sea,aud by the coast of Jordan." (Numb. xiii. 28,29.)

The limits of the Amorite territory are further defined

by the confederacy of the five sheikhs of Jerusalem,

Hebron, Jarmuth, Lachish, and Eglon, all of whom

were Amorites (Josh. x. 5); while the bill-country

immediately to the north and west of Jerusalem,

comprising Gibeon, Chephirah, Betroth, and Kir-

jath-jearim was held by the Hivites (ix. 3, 7, 17, xi.

19), who are also found, at the same period, fur to

the north, " under Hermon in the land of Mizpeh"

(xi. 3; Judges, iii. 3), as two large and powerful

kingdoms of the Amorites coexisted on the east of

the Jordan [Amorites], the older inhabitants

having been driven out. It is worthy of remark

that during the occupation of Palestine by these

Canaanites it is already called the land of the

Hebrews " or Heberites, which can only be accounted

for by an actual residence in it of Heber himself and

his race, which goes far to prove that the Canami-

itish tribes were only intruders in the Land of

Promise. (Gen. xl. 15; see Christian liemem-

braticer, vol. xviii. p. 451.) For fuller details

reference may be made to Heland (Palaestma, cap.

xxvii. pp. 135—141) and Bochart (Phaleg. lib. iv.

capp. 34—37).

2. Second period. — We have now to consider

the division of Palestine among the twelve tribe* of

Israel, on the settlement of the land by Joshua the

son of Xun; and the Scripture statement compared

with Josephus will furnish numerous landmarks,

which a more careful survey of the country than baa

yet been made would probably bring to light :iL

the present day. To begin with the cis-Jordanic

tribes:—

Judah, Simeon, Am.—The south border of Judah

was bounded by the country of Edom and the wil­

derness of Zin; the frontier being plainly defined by

a chain of hills, of con.-dderable elevation, forming a

natural barrier from the southern bay of the Dead

Sea on the east to the Mediterranean on the west, in

which line the following points are named, viz., the

ascent or pass of Acrabbim, Zin, Kadesh-Barnta,

Hezron, Adar, Karkaa, Azmon, the river of Egypt.

The east border extended along the whole length of

the Dead Sea to the mouth of the Jordan, from

which the north lwrder was drawn to the Mediter­

ranean along an irregular line, in which Jerusalem

would be nearly the middle point. The road from

Jerusalem to Jericho passes immediately within the

line, and 'Ain-er-Rcs&ul^ W'ady Kelt, Kulaat-ed-

Dammim, and 'A in or A'wsr Hajlah, are easily iden­

tified with Enshemesh, the river, Adummim, and

Beth-hogla. It pasted south of Jerusalem, from

Enrogel up the valley of Hinnom, by Nephtoah,

Mount Ephron, Kirjath-jearim, Bethshemesh, Tim-

nah, Ekron, Sbicbron, and Jabneel. Their cities

were, as stated in the summary, 29 in number, in

the south division of the tribe, on the borders of

Edom; but the names, as recounted in the Eng­

lish version, are 39. The discrepancy is to be

accounted for, as Keland remarks, by several of tho

words, regarded as proper, or separate names, being

capable of translation as ap[iellaUvcs or as adjuncts

to other names. In the valley, including under that

name the declivity of the western plain and the

plain itself, there were 14+ 16 + 9 =39 towns, wit li

their villages, besides the cities of the Philistii.es

M M

