NICAEA. 423 NICAEA.

According to toother account (Memnon, ap. Phot

Ctd. 224. p. 233, ed. Bckker), Nicaea was founded

by men from Nicaea near Thermopylae, who had

served in the army of Alexander the Great. The

town was built with great regularity, in the form of

a square, measuring 16 stadia in circumference; it

had four gates, and all its streets intersected one

another at right angles, so that from a monument in

the centre all the four gates could be seen. (Strab.

xii pp. 5*5. &c) This monument stood in the gym­

nasium, which was destroyed by fire, but was restored

with increased magnificence by the younger Pliny

(Epitt. x. 48), when he was governor of Bithynia.

Soon after the time of Lvsimachus, Xicaea became

a city of great importance, and the kings of Bithynia,

whose era begins in b. c. 289 with Zipoetes, often

resided at Nicaea. It has already been mentioned

that in the time of Strabo it is called the metropolis

of Bithynia; an honour which is also assigned

to it on some coins, though in later times it was

enjoyed by Nicomedeia. The two cities, in fact,

kept up a long and vehement dispute about the pre­

cedence, and the 38th oration of Dion Chrysostomus

was expressly composed to settle the dispute. From

this oration, it appears that Nicomedeia alone had a

right tu the title of metropolis, but both were the first

cities of the country. The younger Pliny makes

frequent mention of Xicaea and its public buildings,

which he undertook to restore when governor of

Bithynia. (Epist. x. 40, 48, &c) It was the

birthplace of the astronomer Hipparchus and the

hiaburtan Dion Cassius. (Suid. s. v. "Imrapxos.)

The nnmerous coins of Nicaea which still exist

attest the interest taken in the city by the emperors,

a* well as its attachment to the rulers; many of

them commemorate great festivals celebrated there in

hraoar of gods and emperors, as Olympia, Isthmia,

Dionysia, Pythia, Commodia, Severia, Philadelphia,

etc Throughout the imperial period, Nicaea re­

mained an important place; for its situation was par­

ticularly favourable, being only 25 miles distant

from Prusa (Pliu. v. 32), and 44 from Constanti­

nople. (/(.^nt.p.141.) When the last mentioned city

became the capital of the Eastern Empire, Nicaea

did not lose in importance; for its present walls,

which were erected during the last period of the

Empire, enclose a much greater space than that

ascribed to the place in the time of Strabo. In the

reign of Constantino, A. d. 325, the celebrated

Council of Nicaea was held there against the Arian

heresy, and the prelates there assembled drew up

the creed called the Nicene. Some travellers have

believed that the council was held in a church still

existing; bat it has been shown by Prokesch (A'rin-

neruuffen, iii. p. 234) that that church was built at

a later period, and that the council was probably held

in the now ruined mosque of Orchau. In the course

of the same century, Nicaea suffered much from an

earthquake; but it was restored in a. d. 368 by the

emperor Valeria. Daring the middle ages it was

lor a lung time a strong bulwark of the Greek

emperors against the Turks, who did not conquer it

until the year 1078. During the first crusade, in

1097, it was recovered from them by the Christians,

but in the peace which was afterwards concluded it

was ceded to the Turks. In the 13th century,

when Constantinople was the capital of the Latin

empire, Theodore Lascaris made Nicaea the capital

of Western A»ia; in the end, however, it was finally

eooqeered and incorporated with the Ottoman empire

by Urchan. Many of its public buildings were tlien

destroyed, and the materials used by the conquerors

in erecting their mosques and other edifices. The

modern Isnik is a very poor place, of scarcely more

than 100 houses, while in Pococke's time, there still

existed about 300. The ancient walls, with their

towers and gates, are in tolerably good preservation;

their circumference is 14,800 feet, being at the base

from 15 to 20 feet in thickness, and from 30 to 40

feet in height; they contain four large and two

small gates. In most places they are formed of

alternate courses of Itoman tiles and large square

atones, joined by a cement of great thickness. In

some places hare been inserted columns and other

architectural fragments, the ruins of more ancient

edifices. These walls seem, like those of Constan­

tinople, to have been built in the fourth century of our

era. Some of the towers have Greek inscriptions.

The ruins of mosques, baths, and houses, dispersed

among the gardens and cornfields, which now occupy

a great part of the space within the Greek forti­

fications, show that the Turkish town, though

now so inconsiderable, was once a place of im­

portance; but it never was so large as the Greek

city, and it seems to have been almost entirely con­

structed of the remains of the Greek Nicaea, the

walls of the ruined mosques and baths being full of

the fragments of Greek temples and churches. On

the north-western parts of the town, two moles

extend into the lake and form a harbour; but the

lake in this part has much retreated, and left a

marshy plain. Outside the Walls remnants of an

ancient aqueduct are seon. (Comp. Leake, Asia

Minor, pp. 10, foil.; Von Prokesch-Osten. Erin-

nerungen, iii. pp. 321,foil.; Pococke, Journey in Asia

Minor, iii. pp. 181,foil.; Walpole, Turkey, ii. p. 146;

Eckhel, Doctr. Num. i. pp. 423, foil.; Rasche, Lexic.

Rei Num. iii. 1. pp. 1374, folL) [L. a]

COtN OF NICAEA DJ BrTHYNIA.

2. (Nhram, Arrian, v. 19 ; Strab. xv. p. 698;

Curt. ix. 3. 23), a city in the Panjdb, on the

banks of the Hydaspes (or Jelum), built by Alex­

ander the Great to commemorate his victory over

Poms, who ruled the flat country intermediate

between that river and the Acesines. It was at

Nicaea or Bucephalia, which appears to have been

on the opposite bank, that Alexander (according to

Strabo, I. c.) built the fleet which Ncarchus subse­

quently commanded, the country in the immediate

neighbourhood having abundance of wood fit for

ship-building. No town now exists which can with

any probability be identified with it. [V.]

NICAEA II. In Europe. I. (Nfieam: Elk. Ni-

Ktucor: Niaa, in French Nice), a city on the coast of

Liguria, situated at the foot of the Maritime Alps,

near the frontier of Gallia Narbonensis. On this

account, and because it was a colony of Massilia, it

was in early times commonly reckoned as belonging

to Gaul (Steph. B. s. v.); and this attribution is

still followed by Mela (ii. 5. § 3): but from the

time that the Varus became fixed as the limit of

Italy, Nicaea, which was situated about 4 miles

E E 4

