MOESIA. 307 MOESIA.

not exceed 12 feet, and even where it is deepest is i

only 28. We may indeed admit, that, so long as!

the fisheries were a royal monopoly, a larger body of I

water was admitted from the Nile, and the ordinary;

depth of the lake may thus have been greater than'

at present. It is also possible that much of the

surrounding country, now covered with sand, may

formerly, during the inundation, have been entirely

submerged, and therefore that the pyramids which

Herodotus saw, the sides of which even now bear

traces of submersion (Vyse, On the Pyramids, j

YoJ. iii. p. 84). may have been the truncated py­

ramids of Biakmu, now beyond the reach of the |

Birkf.t-el-Kervn, but within the range of the ancient |

Moms. Herodotus, if, as is probable, he visited the

Arsiuoite nome in the wet season, may have been

struck with the elevation of the?* monuments above

the lake, and exaggerated (heir proportions as well

above as below its surface. Pococke {Travels,

vol L p, 65) tells us that he saw on its western

extremity, **a head of land setting out into the lake,

in a semicircular figure, with white cliffs and a

Leipht above," which he thought might be the lower

put of the two pyramids described by Herodotus.

And Pe're Lucas ( Voyages en Egypte, vol. ii. p. 48)

observed an island in the middle of the lake, a good

league in circumference* He was assured by his

guides that it contained tho ruins of several temples

and tombs, two of which were loftier and broader

than the rest

The region of Moeris awaits more accurate sur­

vey. The best accounts of it, as examined by

modern travellers, will be found in Belzoni, Travels;

CbampoUion, rJCgypte, vol. L p. 329; Jomard,

Ikscript de V Egypt*, vol. i. p. 79; Kitter, Erd-

famoV, vol L p. 803. [\V. B. D.]

MOE'SIA, a Roman province in Europe, was

b-junded on the S. by M. Haemus, which separated

it from Thrace, and by M. Orbelus and Scordus,

which separated it from Macedonia, on the W. by

M. Scordus and the rivers Drinus and Savus, which

separated it from lllyricum and Pannonia, on the

N. by the Danube, which separated it from Dacia,

and on the E. by the Pont us Euxinus, thus cor-

iwpon-iinz to the present Servia and Bulgaria.

The Greeks called it Mysia (Muffia), and the in­

habitants Mysians (Mwo(), and sometimes Euro­

pean My-ia (Mtwt'a ij iv Eupwirn, Dion Cass. xlix.

36: Appian, III. 6), to distinguish it from Mysia in

Asia.

The original inhabitants of Moesia were, according

to Strabo, a tribe of Thracians, and were the ances­

tors uf the Mysians of Asia (vii. p. 295). Of the

eariy history of the country, little or nothing is

knuwn. In b. c. 277, a large body of Gaulish in-

TfcJers entered Moesia, after the defeat and death of

ti*ir (eader Brennus, and settled there under the

•an** **f the Scordisci. The Komans first entered

M-*?ia in n. c. 75, when C. Scribonius Curio, pro-

"wal of )lacedonia, penetrated as far as the

«*Rube, and gained a victory over the M*«sians.

(K Kof. Brtv. 7; Jornand. de Regit. Succ. 50;

tutrnp. vi. 2.) But the permanent subjugation of

-M*>ia was probably effected by M. Licinius Crassus,  
'bf fT*nd>on of the triumvir, who was proconsul of \

M**d*iia id a. c. 29. (Liv. Ep. 134, 135; Dion

C«*. U. 25—27; Flor. iv. 12, 15.) This may be j

"irTTed from the statement of Dion Cassius (liii. 7), |

•ho re presents Augustus two years afterwards I

(** c 17) ppeaking of the subjugation of Gallia, I

¥fl**» «nd Aegypt. Further, in a. o. 6, Dion Cos- J

sius mentions the governor of Mysia (Iv. 29), and in

A. D. 14 Tacitus speaks of the legatus Moesiae

{Ann. i. 79); so that there can be no doubt that it

was reduced into the form of a province in the reign

of Augustus, and that the statement of Appian is

incorrect, that it did not become a Koman province

till the reign of Tiberius. (IlL 30.) In the reign

of Tiberius, Moesia was laid waste by the Dacians

and Sarmatians, being then without a garrison, con­

trary to the nsual Roman practice, for a legion was

generally stationed there. (Suet. Tib. 41, Vesp. 6;

Tacit. Ann. xvi. 6.) As a frontier province of the

empire, it was strengthened by a line of stations and

fortresses along the south bank of the Danube. A

Roman wall was built from Axiopolis to Tomi, as a

defence against the Sarmatians and Scythians, who

inhabited tho delta of the Danube. Moesia was

originally only one province, but was divided into

two provinces, called Moesia Superior and Inferior,

prolmbly at the commencement of Trajan's reign.

(Marquardt, in Becker's Romisch. Alterth. vol. iii.

pt. i. p. 106.) Each province was governed by a

consular legatus, and was divided into smaller dis­

tricts {regiones et vict). Moesia Superior was the

western, and Moesia Inferior the eastern half of the

country; they were separated from each other by

the river Cebrus or Ciabrus, a tributary of the

Danube. (Ptol. iii. 9, 10.) They contained several

Roman colonies, of which two, Ratiaria and Oescus,

were made colonies by Trajan, and Viminacium by

Gordian III. (Marquardt, I. c.) The conquest of

Dacia, by Trajan, removed the frontiers of the

empire farther north, beyond the Danube. The

emperor Hadrian visited Moesia, as we are informed

by his medals, in his general progress through the

empire, and games in his honour were celebrated at

Pinciun. In A. d. 250 the Goths invaded Moesia.

Decius, who was then emperor, marched against

them, but was defeated and killed in a battle with

them in 251. What the valour of Decius could

not effect, his successor, Trebonianus Gallus, ob­

tained by bribery; and the Goths withdrew to the

Dniester. When Aurelian gave up Dacia to the

Goths, and withdrew his troops and part of the in­

habitants to the south side of the river, he formed a

settlement in the heart of Moesia, which was named

from him Dacia Aureliani. [Dacia, Vol. 1. p. 745]

In 395 the Ostrogoths, being hard pressed by the

Huns, requested permission of the Romans to pass

the Danube, and settle in Moesia. The request

was acceded to by Valens, who was then emperor,

and a large number took advantage of the privilege.

They soon, however, quarrelled with the Roman

authorities, and killed Valens, who marched to op­

pose them. The Goths, who settled in Moesia, are

sometimes called Moeso-Goths, and it was for their

use that Ulphilas translated the Scriptures into

Gothic about the middle of the fourth century. In

the seventh century the Slavonians entered Moesia,

and the Bulgarians about the same time, and

founded the kingdoms of Bulgaria and Servia.

Moesia was occupied by various populations; the

following are enumerated by Ptolemy and Pliny

(Ptol. iii. 9; Plin. iii. 26): the Dardnni, Celegeri,

Triballi, Timachi, Moesi, Thraces, Scythae, Tricor-

nesii, Pincensii, Troglodytes, and Peucini, to which

may be added the Scordisci. (Liv. xl. 57.) The

relative situations of these people were somewhat as

follows: the Dardani, said to be a colony from Dar-

dania in Asia, dwelt on the borders of Macedonia.

The Triballi dwelt near the river Ciabrus; the

