131G UMBRIA. UMBRIA.

cans and Samnites. (Lit. x. 21.) Their combined

forces were, however, overthrown in the great battle

of Sentinum (lb. 26, 27; Polyb. ii. 19); and this is

the last time that the Umbrians, as a people, appear

in arms against the Roman power. We are indeed

told in tlie epitome of Livy that the Umbrians were

again defeated, and reduced to submission at the

same time as the Salient i ties, in B.C. 266 (Liv.

Epit. xv.); but there seems no doubt that this refers

only to the outlying tril>e or people of tlve Snrsinatea

(on the N. of tiie Apennines, and adjoining the Boian

Gauls), as the Fasti, in recording the events of the

year, mention both consuls as triumphing only " de

Sarsinatibus " ( Fast Capit.) We have no account of

the terms on which tlve Umbrians were received into

submission, or of the manner in which they passed,

like their neighbours the Etruscans, into t he condition

of dependent allies of Rome: it is certain only that

the different tril>es and cities were, according to the

usual Roman policy, admitted on very different

terms. Ocriculum, as already mentioned, enjoyed

special privileges ; and the same was the ease with

the Camertes, who. even in the days of Cicero, re­

tained a peculiarly favoured position, and had a

treaty which secured them a nominal independence

and equality. (Liv. xxviii. 45 ; Cic. /wo Balb. 20.)

The fer;ile district of the '* Gallic us ager" was in

great part occupied by Roman colonies, of which

Sena Gal Ilea was founded as early as n. c. 289.

Ariminum in B.C. 268, and Pisaurum in B.C. 18.3.

But besides these, a considerable part of that territory

was divided among Roman citizens, by r law of the

tribune, 0. Flaminius, in b. c. 232. (Cic. Brut. 14.)

The other Umbrians continued in the position of de­

pendent allies of Koine, and appear to have remained

uniformly faithful to the powerful republic. Thus,

in B.C. 282, wc are told that they were solicited by

the envoys of the Tarentines (Dion Cass. /V. 144),

but apparently without effect : nor does it appear

that their constancy was for a moment shaken by

the successes of Hannibal: and before the close of

the Second Punic War we find them coming forward

with the offer of volunteers tor the army of Scipio.

(Liv. xxviii. 45.) In the Social War they are said

t" have for a time broken out into revolt, and were

defeated in a battle by the legate C. Plotius; but it

is probable that the defection was a very partial

one, and the Romans wisely secured the fidelity of the

Umbrians as well as of the Etruscans by bestowing

on them the Roman franchise, b. c. 90. (Liv.

Epit. Ixxiv.; Oros. v. 18; Appian. B. C. i. 49.)

From this time the name of the Umbrians as a

nation disappears from history, though it continued,

as already mentioned, to be well known as one of

the territorial divisions of Italy. (Tac. Huit. iii. 41,

42; Jul. CapiL Gordiatii, 4: Ac.) In the early

ages of the empire it was still one of the districts

which supplied the most numerous recruits to the

praetorian cohorts. (Tac. Ann. iv. 5.) As long as

the division of Italy into regions subsisted, the name

of Uinbria continued to Im: applied to the sixth re­

gion; but from an early period, certainly ltng before

the time of 0.Histamine, it was united for adminis­

trative purposes with Etniria.and its name teems to

have become gradually merged in that of tlie more

important province. Thus Servras tells us that

Uuibria was a part of Tuscia (Serv. ad A en. xii.

753), and the Liber Coloniarum includes the ancient

Untbrian cities of His pel I um, Tuder, Ameria, &c,

among the "Civitates Tusciae.'' (Lib. Colon, p.

224.) On the other hand, the district E. of the

Apennines, the ancient Ager GsTHnjs. *a= rv

again separated from Umbria. and became tavo«i if

the name of Picenum Ajinonariuni. (llor^ai^. *

Lib. Col p. 211.)

Of the Umbrians as a nation during tbeir pr>*

of independence we know almost nothing. We e*n

only that they enjoyed the reputation of ksvenl

hardy warriors; and the slight resistance tait uVt

opposed to the Roman arms was probably ti

their want of political organisation. So nr u w

learn, they appear to have been divided int.) pes«ai

tribes or " poputi," snch as the Camerte*. Sar-aa-'M.

&c, each of which followed its own line of f^r*

without any reference to a common anti*«rity. N«

trace is found in history of the existence among tbea

of any national league or ctwncil such as extsted rare?

the Etruscans and Latins; and even where t» Cn»

brians are spoken of in general terms, it k

doubtful whether the whole nation is reaiiy nanst

The physical characters of Umbria are ilr-al

wholly determined by the chain of the A'«"^

which, as already described, enters the pnrv

near the soarres of the Tiber, and exte:tds tfiesn

without interruption to tl«e lofry group d ta

Monti delta SibiUa (the ancient M<ns F*ifh«)tf

the sources of the Xar, and on the confines of rVecss

and the land of the Sabine*. The Apennines

rise in this part of the chain to so great an rWv^

as they attain farther south, but their pnaiafc

summits within the Umbrian territory rang* rria

4000 to 5500 feet in height; while their mOT»

ramifications fill up a space varying fmm * Sfl

miles in breadth. A very large porti'1*) of Ustn

is therefore a mountain country (whence it is wrrei

u montana Umbria " by Martial, iv. 10\ tiwor- »»

nigged and difficult of access than the central no ^

of Italy farther to the S. On the W. the nwar^-s

district terminates abruptly on tbe edge of * tcaJ

valley or plain winch extends from rmr Sj****^

tl>e neighbourhood of Perugia, and is thence («■-

tinued up the valley of tbe Tiber as far as C*a«

Castillo. But beyond this plain rise* another

of hills, connected with the main chain «»f the ii»

nines by a ridge which separates SpoIrtair&E T^w.

and which spreads out through almost the »■*

extent of country from the valley of the Xarv,**:

of the Tiber. It is on tbe outlying hills or aaoM**

of this range that tbe ancient Umbrian cities* T^*

and Ameria were placed. Tbe broad vjjley

this group and the main mass of the cenirsj Af*"-

nines is a fertile and delightful district, ma «■

renowned in ancient times for the richness a»i

nriance of its pastures, which were wat*rfd H***

streams of tlte Tinra and Clitumnus. Hew

within a short distance of one another tie *

Treba, Hispellum, Mevania, and Asskiom Ttf

district may accordingly be locked on as tbe htft

of Umbria properly so called.

On the E. of the central chain tbe Ap«=**

descend more gradually to the eea by

stages, throwing off like arms long ranges H

tains, sinking into hills as they approach th* A --

atic. The valleys between them are fsm«« W

numeroas streams, which pursue nearly po^*

courses from SW. to NE. Tbe rrvmt ctaacsv'1

of these are the Aesis (£«a#), whirs idrarA Or

established limit between Umbria and PioenW'

Skxa, which flowed under tbe waUs of S««

(Sittigaglui); the far more celebrated Mn n six

which entered the sea at Fanuaa Furtaisa»<rJ*

the Pisalrls, which gave came to the c£j • f>

