SARDINIA. SARDINIA 907

E 1, Ac.), Sir Acs is named as one of the Seven

'turtles, vbenos it is clear that at that time its

ir-ibitaols had adopted Christianity. From Pliny

r. .10) we learn that Sardea wan the capital of a

ccfinaK: during the 6rat centuries of the Christian

ra vt hear of more than one council held there;

ai S rantnoad to be a wealthy city down to the

xi ef the Byzantine empire. (Eunap. p. 154; Hie-

• i p. 669.) The Turks took possession of it in

» Ilih century, and two centuries later it was

trwt entirely destroyed by Tamerlane. (Anna

■ ox p. 323; M Ducas, p. 39 .) Sardes is now

mm than a village, still bearing the name of

wf. which is situated in the midst of the ruins of

» urieot city. These ruins, though extending

s» t large space, are not of any great consequence;

roasiat of the remains of a stadium, a theatre,

«■ the triple walls of the acropolis, with lofty

•fra

Tf» fertile plain of Sardes bore the name of Sar-

•nr or Imeitarbr wetW, and near the city was

• clebrated tomb of Alyattes. Sardes was be-

'ni to be the native place of the Spartan post

i-naa, and it is weO known that the two rheto-

titiu Diodoras and the historian Eunapius were

of Sardes. (Chandler, Trawl* in Alia

W. p. 316, folL: Leake, Alia Minor, p. 342,

I; KKhter, WaUfairtm, p. 511, foU. ; Prokesch,

•nhnrdtgk. vol. iii. p. 31, foil.] [L. S.]

SARDINIA (A. 2<xp*a: Eth. SopJioj, Sardus:

'"■■'a), one of the largest and most important

■ads in the Mediterranean sea, situated to the S.

Cnica (from which it was separated only by a

rt* strait, now called the Strati of Bonifazio)

J XW. of Sicily. Its most southern extremity,

a» Sfmutivmto, was distant only 120 gcog. miles

ea Caps Serrat in Africa.

L GxKKItAL DESCRIPTION.

It was a disputed point in ancient times whether

'-1 or Sardinia was the largest. Herodotus calls

ntinia ** the largest of islands " (yijacov i-waaiw

>rwy. i. 170, r*>«"Hn> uryiimn; v. 106), but

"■ares where it is not certain that the expression

*" be coDstroed quite strictly. Scylax, however,  
*nrtly calls Sardinia the largest of all the islands  
t*« aUditerranean, assigning to Sicily only the ee-

'i ruk (ScyL p. 56. § 113); and Timaeos seems to

'• adopted the same view (op. Strab. xiv. p.654).

a the general opinion was the other way: the

poet Alexins already enumerated the seven

mi wlands, as they were called, placing Sicily first

<■ Sardinia aecond (Alex. ap. Const. Porphvr.

Aw». iL §10)- and this view is followed by

rasas C trims, as well as by the later geographers,

"xa. Ch. p. 233; Strab. it p. 123; Plin. iii. 7.

13, ft. a. 14; Diod. v. 17). Diodorus, however,

sly reanau-ks, that it is very nearly equal to Sicily

xaraitnde (Diod. v. 16): and this opinion, which

• adopted by Clnrerios (SieU. Ant p. 478), con-

s*-i *o prevail down to a very recent period.

2 rwoVra researches have proved that Sardinia is

tally the Larger of the two, though the difference

u trifling. (Smyth's Sardinia, p. 66.) Its

*ral form is that of an oblong parallelogram,  
aw 149 geog. miles in its greatest length, by

an CO in its average breadth, which, however,

■us to sa much as 77 in one part. The measure-

ats given by Pliny, of 188 miles (148J geog.

■a) sa length along the E. coast, and 175 on the

« therefore very fair approximations (Plin.

iii. 7. s. 13), while those of Strabo, who calls the

island 220 miles in length by 98 in breadth, are

considerably overstated. (Strab. v. p. 224.)

Sardinia is a much more fertile and less moun­

tainous island than Corsica. It is, however, traversed

throughout its whole lenpth from N. to S. by a

chain of mountains which commence at the headland

called Capo Ltmgo Sardo, and extend along the

eastern side of the island, as far as Capo Carbonara^

which forms the SE. extremity of the island. This

range, which is composed of granitic and other

primary rocks, is undoubtedly a continuation, in a

geological sense, of the mountains of Corsica, and

produces a rugged and difficult country forming

much the wildest and most uncivilised part of Sar­

dinia. The mountain summits, however, are far

from attaining the same elevation as those of Corsica,

the highest point, called Monte Genargentu, rising

only to 5276 feet, while the Monte di Sta ViXtoria,

in the same neighbourhood, rises to 4040 feet, and

the peak of Limbarra (the most northerly group of

the chain) to 3686 feet: but the general elevation of

the range rarely exceeds 3000 feet. (Smyth, p. 67.)

West of this mountain district, which may be con­

sidered on a rough estimate as comprising about

one half of the whole island, are situated three de­

tached groups of mountains; the most considerable

of which is that in the SW., which extends from

Capo Spartirento to Capo delta Frasca on the Gulf

of Orutano, and the highest summits of which

attain to an elevation of nearly 4000 feet. In the

extreme NW. of the island is another isolated range

of less extent, called the Monti delta Aumi. ex­

tending from the Capo delta Caccia to the Capo

del Falcone. Both these groups are, like the moun­

tains in the E. of the island, composed of primary

rocks; but N. of the river 7rrso, and extending from

thence to the N. coast of the bland beyond Sasiari,

is an extensive volcanic tract, occupied in consider­

able part by a range of extinct volcanoes, one of

which, the Monte Urticu, rises to an elevation of

3430 feet. There is no trace of any volcanic action

having taken place within the historical period, but

extensive tracts are still covered with broad streams

and fields of lava. Notwithstanding this abundance

of mountains, Sardinia possesses several plains of

considerable extent. The largest of these is that

called the Campidano, which extends from the Gulf

of Cagliari to that of Orutano, thus separating

entirely the range of mountains in the SW. from

those in the E. of the island; it is a tract of great

fertility. A similar plain, though of less extent,

stretches across from the neighbourhood of Alghero

to that of Porto Torres, thus isolating the chain of

the Monti delta Xurra ; while several smaller ones

are found in other parts of the island. The general

character of Sardinia is therefore well summed up

by Strabo, when he says, "the greater part of it is

a rugged and wild country, but a large part contains

much fertile land, rich in all kinds of produce, but

most especially in corn." (Strab. v. p. 224.)

The great disadvantage of Sardinia, in ancient as

well as modern times, was the insalubrity of its

climate. This is repeatedly alluded to by ancient

writers, and appears to have obtained among the

Romans an almost proverbial notoriety. Mela calls

it " soli quam coeli melioris, atque ut foecunda, ita

pens pestilens." Strabo gives much the same ac­

count, and Martial alludes to it as the most deadly

climate he can mention. (Strab. v. p. 225; MeL

ii.7. §19; Pans. x. 17. § 11; Martial, iv. 60. 6;

