504 OSTIAEI. OTHRYS.

remains of the port of Claudius are less distinct; the

line of the moles which bounded it may, however, be

traced, though they are altogether buried in sand;

the tower of the lighthouse or Pharos was still visible

in the 15th century, when the ruins were visited

and described by Pope Tins II., but has now entirely

disappeared. A considerable part of t he ancient walls

with which the city was fortitied by Constantine is

still visible; they were strengthened with towers,and

closely resemble in their stylo uf construction the

older portions of those of Home.

Between the site of Ostia and that of Portus is

the inland, formed by the two branches of the Tiber,

which is about 3 miles in length by 2 in breadth.

It is commonly known as the Inscla Sacra, an

appellation first given to it by Procopius, who de­

scribes it in detail (/_*. 6-'. i. 26). The origin of the

epithet is unknown, but it appears to have been in

Chi istian times regarded as consecrated, having been,

according to Anastashis, bestowed by Constantine

upon the church. It is described in exaggerated

terms by a writer of the 5th century (Aethicus.

Cosmogr, \>. 716, ed. Oronov.) for its beauty and

fertility, whence lie says it was termed "Libanus

Almae Veneris:" but in spring it is still covered with

fine pastures abounding with beautiful flowers. The

formation of this island obviously dates only from the

construction of the right arm of the Tiber, now

known as // Fiumicino, which, as already shown, is

probably wholly artificial. No writer before the time

of the Roman Empire alludes to more than one mouth

of the river.

The topography of Ostia and Tortus, anil 1 lie

vicissitudes and changes which the two ports at the

month of the Tiber have undergone, are fully traced,

and the existing ruins described in detail, by Nibby

( Dtntomidi Noma, vol. ii. p. 42fi—474,002—660);

as well as by Preller, in the Berickteder Siichsischen

Getellschq/l for the year 1849 (pp. 5—38). The

preceding plan is copied from one given bv the latter

writer.' [E*. H. B.]

OSTIAEI, OSTIDAMNII. Stephanus (s. v.

'nTTiWey) has preserved a notice of a Gallic people

whom he descrbes ik as a nation on the western

Ocean, whom Artemidorus names Cossini, and Py­

theas names Ostiaei," Strabo (p. 63) observes of

Pytheas that what he says of the Ostiaei and the

parts beyond the Rhine as far as Scvthia, is all

false. Whether false or true, we learn from Strabo

that Pytheas spoke of the Ostiaei of Gallia; and we

can safely infer that Pytheas placed them on the

west coast of Gallia opposite to Britain. A passage

of Strabo has been cited under Osismii, in which it

is stated of the Osismii that Pytheas named them

Timii. Ukert (Gallien, p 336) purp-tse* to change

ovs Ttfilovs in this passage of Strabo into o6s

TlcTTtatovs, The proposal is reasonable. The text

of Strabo is probably corrupt here. These Ootiaei

of Pytheas can be no other than the Osismii.

Eratosthenes mentioned a people of Gallia named

Ostidamnii on the west coast of Gallia. He also

s[>okc (Strab. p. G4) of the promontory of the Os-

tidamnii which i* called Calbium. It is clear that

he is speaking of the peninsula uf Brt-tnyne. The

Ostiiioi, Ostidamnii, OMsmii are evidently the same

peopl,. [G.L.]

OSTIPPO, a free city of Hispania Baetica, in

the jurisdiction of Astigi (Plin. iii. 1. s. 3), and on

the road from Hispalis to Cordoba. (/tin. Ant.

p. 411.) It has not been satisfactorily identified,

but, according to Ukert (vol. ii. pt. I. p. 360), it

must probably bo sought in the neiehryyir&scA •!

the modern Ecija. [T, H D.]

OSTKA (vO(TTpo: Eth. Ostranns). i vmd

Umbria, in the district once occupied by uV Somm

mentioned both by Pliny and Pte.lemT (Firn. in.

14. s. 10; Ptol. iii. 1. § 51). but of Terr onwtu

site. [Umbria]. [LH.B.1

OSTRACl'NA COjrpaKi'rrj, Ptol. iv. 5. j 12.

Plin. v. 12. s. 14; Ostracena /t Anton, p. 15$)

was a military station in Lower A^irypt. e^t

Delta proper, and situated on the road fr.-m Bsia

corura to Pelusium. From the route of Vesp«>bi

on his return from Ak'xandreia to Piksiiw I

A.D. 09, as described by Ja-ephus (B. J*L if. 11

§ 5), Ostracina appears to have been or« diy

march from the temple of Jupiter Casws in &

Arabian hills, and about the same distance bvm tl

lake Serbonis. It was destitute of weils. and si

plied with water brought by a canal from 'J

Delta. (Comp. Martian. Capella. c. 6. [W. B II

OSTRACI'XA, a mountain on the rvl m

Mantineia Methydrium. [Manttneia. p. 2511

OSTUDIZUS (also written Ostidizu.> and \M

dizus, Itin. Ant. pp. 137, 230, 322; and in Hii

viii. p. 1346, Ustudizum), a town in Timct.Ml

road from Hadrianople to Constantinople. [T.HJ

OS'lTR. a town of Spain, not mentixceJ al

ancient writer, but which appears upcm cJ

There is still a place called Oxtvr near Akm

Valencia, which has some Roman ruins. xvA *l

abounds with acorns,—the figure of which si**

pears ufton the coins. (Florez, Afed. ii p.!

iii. p. 113; Sestini, p. 179; Mim.net, i. p. 47,

i. p. 95, op. Ukert, vol.ii. pt. 1. p. 416.) fT-H,

OTA IM XI (T.ToSTji'ot. Ptol. ii. 3. § 10). t W

tribe on the E. coast "f Britannia Harharj.il

province of Valentia, lying S. of the H»-e^

tuary, or Firth of Forth, down to the riw 1

ami therefore inhabiting the counties of U<uUi*\

Bencick, Roxburgh, and the greater part «t Si

umberland. Their chief cities were Cana

Bremeniuin. [T. H. £

OTE'XE ('nrTjn?, Ptol. v. 13. § 9, was

reading M«t?ji<tj is incorrect), a canton of" Am

separated from Atropatene bv the river Aj

(Plin. vi. 16 ) St. Martin (Mem. no- ?Ar*

vol. i. p. 86) identities it with the province i

to the native geographers by the name ut

what is now called Kara -bi'tyh, to the X. «

Araxea. [E. B.

OTESIA, a town of Cispadane Gaul, kw*

from the mention of the Otesini by Piiny 0

s. 20) among the municipal towns of th» I

Region. But an inscription given by C.a

makes mention of the "Respublica Otesuiw

and it is probable that Airtvcria and 'Oim*"*-

are found in Phlegon among the towns vf tii

part of Italy, are only corruptions of the anwi

(Phlegon. Macrob. 1; Cluver. ItaL \t. 2*i'

site is wholly uncertain. £E- H-

OTHRYS (v 'O0pvs),a lofty chain of ir-a

winch shuts in the plain of TTiessa.lv fn<n ism

It brandies otf from Mount Tympiinoioa, t

init in the range of Pindtis, and runs DM

cast through Phthiotis to the sea c>.*st. t_t *iJ

rating the waters which flow into the IV" a

those of the Spercheiua. (Strab. ix. pp. 453

comp. Herod, vii. 129; Plin. iv. 8- a. 15.)

northern side, many offshoots extend into t!.i

of Pharsalus. It is lofty and cxtverwi w:'.ii

whence the poets give it the epithet cf "I

