1IGUSTICUM MARE. 1S9 LILYBAEUM.

3. The most important of the routes in the

interior of Liguria, was that leading from Genua

inland by LiUamuin to Dertona, from whence a

branch communicated, through Iria and Comillo-

ma^us, with Placentia; while another brancli pissed

by A-jiiae Statiellae to the coast at Vada Sabata.

(The stations on both these roads have been already

given in the preceding route). From Aquae Sta-

tsellae another brand) led by Pollen tia to Augusta

Taurinorum. (Tab. Peul.) [E. H. B.]

LIGU'STICUM MAKE (to AcywriKOV ndKayos,

Strab. ii. p. 12*2), was the name given in ancient

tiroes to that part of the Mediterranean sea which

*ij*lined the coast of Liguria, and lay to the N. of  
tlie Tyrrhenian sea. The name was applied (like

all similar apixdiation.s) with considerable vagueness,

sometimes as limited to what is now called the Gulf of

Genoa,— in which sense it i* termed theLiGUSTiei's

&5i*s by Florus (iii. 6. § 9). — at others in a much

wider sense, so that Pliny speaks of Corsica as an

island "in Ligustico mari." Some of the Greek

geographers included under the name the whole ex­

tent from the frontiers of Spain to those of Etruria,

comprising the Mark Galucum of the Romans, or

the iiH«leru Gulf of Lyons. The more limited use

of the name seems, however, to have been the more

UMial, at all events in later times, and is elsewhere

adopted by Pliny himself. (Plin. iii. 5. s. 10T 6.

y. 12; Strab. /. c.; Ptol. Jii. 1. § 3: Agathem. i. 3;

Diooys. Per. 76 ; Priacian, Per. 80.) [E. H. B.j

L1LAEA (Ai\ata: Klh. AiAcufus), a town of

Phot-is, situated at the foot of Mount Parnassus, and

at the sources of the Cephissus. (Horn. IL ii. 522,

Hgm*. in A poll 240; Strab. ix. pp. 407, 424;

Paus. ix. 24. § 1, x. 33. § 3; Stat. Theb. vii. 348.)

It was distant from Delphi by the road over Par­

nassus 180 stadia. (Paus. I. c.) It is not men­

tioned by Herodotus (viii. 31) among the towns

destroyed by the Persians; whence we may conjec­

ture that it belonged at that time to the Dorians,

who made their submission to Xerxes. (Leake,

Svrthern Greece, vol. ii. p. 90.) It was destroyed

»t the end of the Sacred War; but was soon

at-.eiwards restored. It was taken by Deme-

trioi, bnt sultsequently threw off the Macedo­

nian yoke; Pausanias saw at Lilaea a theatre,

a:i agora, and baths, with temples of Apollo and

Artemis, containing statues of Athenian workman-

shipand of Pentelic marble. (Paus. x. 33. § 4; see

aUi.3. § 1.x. 8. § 10; Lycophr. 1073; Steph.

B. a. r.) The ruins of Lilaea, called Paleukastro.

ut situated about half a mile from the sources of

:lw Cephissus. The entire circuit of the fortifica-

"j'fl exists, partly founded on the steep descent

<& a rocky hill, while the remainder encompasses a

**el Sface at its foot, where the ground is covered  
*Jn ruins. Some of the towers on the walls are  
itewatentire The sources of the Cepliissus, now

tailed Kefalovryscs (Ke<f»aAofyi)<T«is), are said by

lWanias very often to issue from the earth, es-

j«.allj at midday, with a noise resembling the

wwing of a bull ; and Lrake found, upon inquiry,

tM though the present natives had never made any

wch observation at Kefalovr^se*, yet the water

G^eo rises suddenly from the ground in larger

tjWitities than usual, which cannot hut be accom­

panied with some noise, (Dodwell, Classical Tour,

**!• H. p. 133; Leake, Northern Greece, vol. ii. pp.  
*!•**•) Ptolemy (iii. 15. § 15) erroneously calls  
wia*a a town of Doris.

U'LLJUM or LI'LEUM (MAXtor, AiAedV), a

commercial place (emporium) on the coast of Bi-

thynia, 40 stadia to the east of Dia; but no par­

ticulars are known about it. (Arrian, Peripl. p. 13;

Anonym. Peripl. 3.) It is possible that the place

may have derived its name from the Lilaeus, which

Pliny (//. AT. v. 43) mentions among the rivers of

Bithynia. [L. S.]

LILYBAEUM (AiKvSahv. Eth. AiAvfiamji, Li-

lybaetanus: Marsala), a city of Sicily, situated on

the promontory of the same name, which forms the

extreme W. point ot the island, now called Capo

Boeo. The promontory of Lilybaeum is mentioned

by many ancient writers, as well as by all the geo­

graphers, as one of the three principal headlands of

Sicily, from which that island derived its name of

Trinacria. It was the most westerly point of the

island and that nearest to Africa, from which it was

'distant only 1000 stadia according to Poly bins, but

Strabo gives the distance as 1500 stadia. Both

statements, however, exceed the truth ; the real dis­

tance from Cape Bon, the nearest point of the coast

of Africa, being less than 90 geog. miles, or 900

stadia. (Pol. i. 42 ; Strab. ii. p. 122, vi. pp. 265,

267; Mel. ii. 7; Plin. iii. 8. s. 14; Ptol. iii. 4. § 5;

Diod. v. 2, xiii. 54; Steph. B. s. v.; Dionys. 1'er.

470.) The headland itself is a low but rocky point,

continued out to sea by a reef of hidden rocks and

shoals, which rendered the navigation dangerous,

though there was a safe port immediately adjoin­

ing the promontory. (PoL Z. c.; Virg. Aen. iii.

706.)

Diodorus tells us distinctly that there was no

town upon the spot until after the destruction of

Motya by Dionysius of Syracuse, in b. c. 397, when

the Carthaginians, instead of attempting to restore

that city, settled its few remaining inhabitants on

the promontory of Lilybaeum, which they fortified

and converted into a stronghold. (Diod. xiii. 54,

xxii. 10.) It is, therefore, certainly a mistake

(though one of which we cannot explain the origin)

when that author, as early as ». c. 454, speaks of

the Lilybaeans and Segcstans as engaged in war on

account of the territory on the banks of the river

Mazarus (Id. xi. 86). The promontory and ]»rt

were, however, frequented at a much earlier period:

we are told that the Cuidiaus under Pentathlus,

who afterwards founded Lijiara, landed in the first

instance at Lilybaeum (Id. v. 9); and it was also

the point where, in b. c. 409, Hannibal landed with

the great Carthaginian armament designed for the

attack of Selinns. (Id. xiii. 54.) Diodorus tells

us (/. c.) that on the promontory was a well (<Pptap\

from whence the city took its name: this was ob­

viously the same with a source or spring of fresh

water rising in a cave, now consecrated to St. John,

and still regarded with superstitious reverence.

(Kazell. de Beb. Sic. vii. 1; Smyth's Sicily, p. 228.)

It is clear that the new city quickly rose to pros­

perity, and became an important stronghold of the

Carthaginian power, succeeding in this respect to the

position that Motya had previously held. [Motya.]

Its proximity to Africa rendered it of especial im­

portance to the Carthaginians in securing their com-

munu.ati<ns with Sicily, while the dancer which

would threaten them if a foreign power were in

possession of such a fortress, immediately opposite

to the gulf of Carthage, led them to spare no pains

(or its security. Hence Lilybaeum twice became the

last bulwark of their power in Sicily. In b. c. 276

it was besieged by Pyrrhus, who had already reduced

all the other cities of Sicily, and expelled the Car­

