2 IADERA. IALYSUS.

ruijliaa (iii. 7C: coins, an. Sestini, pp. 132, 163;

Num. Goth.). [P.S.]

IA'DEKA (TdoVpa, Ptol. iii. 16. § 10; 'laSapa,

Nket, p. 348; Iadera, Plin. iii. 26; Iader, Pomp.

Mela, ii. 3. § 13; PeuL Tab.x Gcog. Rav.; on the

orthography of the name sec Tzchucke, no* Mthim,

I.e. vol. ii. pt 2. p. 275: Eth. Iadcrtmus, Hirt.

D. A. 42: Zara), the capital of Libumia in Illy-

ricum. Under Augustus it was made a Roman

colony. (** Parens colonial'," Inter, np. Farlati, Illyr.

Sacr., vol. v. p. 3; com p. l'tol. /. c.) Afterwards

it 1>")<- the name of Dioikhia. and paid a tribute of

110 pieces of gold to the Ea*.tern emperors (Const

Porph. dt A dm. Imp. 30), until it was handed over,

in the reign of Basil the Macedonian^ to the Slavonic

princes. Zara, the modern capital of Dalmatia,

and well known for the famous siege it stood against

the combined Frem-h ami Venetians, at the begin­

ning of the Fourth Crusade (Gibbon, c. lx.; Wilken,

efts A'resjz*. vol. T. p. 167), stands upon the site

of Iadera. Little remain* of the ancient city; the

sea-gate called Porta di San Chrysogono is I toman,

but it seems likely that it has been brought from

Aenona. The pile is a single arch with a Corin­

thian pilaster at kuIi bide supporting an entablature.

Kckhel (vol. ii. p. 152) doubts the evidence of

any oiins of Iadera, though some have been attri­

buted to it by other writers on numismatics. (Sir

G. Wilkinson, Dalmatia and Montenegro, vol. i.

p. 78; J. F. Neigebaur, Die Sudslaven, pp. 181 —

191.) [K.B.J.]

lADO'XI, a people in the extreme NW. of His-

pania Tarraconensis, mentioned only by Pliny, who

places them next to the Arrutrcbae. (Plin. iv. 20.

a. 34.; [P. S.]

lAKTAorIKTAK('Ievaf,Steph.B.: Eth.T«T<uor,

Id.; but Oiodorus has'IajriroT^and this is confirmed

by coins, the legend of which is uniformly 'Iarmw,

Eclchel, vol. i. p. 216: in Latin, Cicero has Jetini,

but Pliny letenses), a town of the interior of Sicily,

in the NW. of the island, not very far from Panor-

inuft. It was mentioned Ly Philistus (ap. Steph. U.

*. r.) as a fortress, and it is called by Thucydidcs  
also (if the reading *I«rdr be admitted, in vii. 2) a

fortress of the Siculiau* (t«*xo* ™p 2**«Awk),

which was taken by Gylippus on his march from

iltmera through the interior of the bland towards

Syracuse. It first appears as an independent city in

the time of Pyrrbus, and was attacked by that

monarch on account of its strong position and the

advantages it offered for operations against Panor-

mus; but the inhabitants readily capitulated. (Diod.

xxii. 10, p. 498.) In the First Punic War it was

occupied by a Carthaginian garrison, but after the

fall of Panormua drove out these troops and opened

its gates to the Romans. (Id. xxiii. 18, p. 505.)

Under the I toman government it appears as a muni­

cipal town, but not one of much importance. The

Ii'iini are only noticed in passing by Cicero among

the towns whose lands had been utterly ruined by

the exactions of Verres; and the Ietenses are enume­

rated by Pliny among the " populi stipend is rii** of

the interior of Sicily. (Cic. Vtrr. iii. 43; Plin. iii.

8. a. 14.) Many MSS. of Cicero read /.«<***, and it

Is probable that the Afros' of Ptolemy (iii 4. § 15)

is only a corruption of the same name.

The position of laeta is very obscurely intimated,

but it ap|M-ars from Lrtodorus tliat it was not very

remote from Panormua, ami that its site was one of

great natural strength. St litis Italicus also alltidn*

to its elevated situation ("eclsus Ietas," xiv. 271).

Fazcllo assures us that there was a mediaeval for­

tress called lata on the summit of a lofty moun­

tain, about 15 miles from Paltrmo, and 12 N. of

Entclla, which was destroyed by Frederic II. at the

saute time with the Utter city; and this he sup­

poses, probably enough, to be the site of laeta. lie

says the mountain was still called Monte di latof

though more commonly known as Monte di S. Com-

nuino, from a church on its summit. (Fazell. x.

p. 471; Amic /.ex. Top. Sic. vol. ii. p. 291.) The

spot is not marked on any modern map, and does

not appear to have been visited by any recent tra­

vellers. The position thus assigned to laeta agrees

well with the statements of Diodorus. but is wholly

irreconcilable with the admission of Ttrar into the

text of Thucydides (vii. 2): this reading, however,

is a mere conjecture (see Arnold's cote), and must

probably be discarded as untenable. [K. II. B J

CulM OF IAETA.

JAEZER flafte, LXX; 'l*(vp and *A«T«pf

Eaten.), a city of Gilead, assigned to the tribe of

Gad by Moses. In Numbers (xxxii. 1), u the land

of Jazer" is mentioned as contiguous to "the land

of Gilead, and suited to cattle." In Jeremiah (xiv iii.

32), " the sea of Jazcr " occurs in some versions, as

in the English; but Itcland (*. v. p. 825) ju»tly

remarks, tliat this is not certain, a-* the passage ma/

be pointed after the word " sea," and "Jaaer,'' as a

vocative, commence the following clause. But as

** the Land of Jazer" is used for the country south of  
Gilead, so the Dead Sea may be designated " the sea

of Jazer." Eusebius (Onomcut. s. r. 'Acwp) placea

it 8 miles west of Philadelphia or Amnion; and

elsewhere (s. v. 'lao-fip), 10 miles west of Philadel­

phia, and 15 from Esbou (Ueshbou). He adds, that

a large river takes its rise there, which runt into

the Jordan. In a situation nearly corrc>j<ondiiig

with this, between Szalt and Etbue, Burckhardt

posted some ruins named Szyr, where a valley

named W'ady Szyr takes its rise and runs into the.

Jordan. This is doubtless the inodeni representative

of the ancient Jazer. '* In two hours and a half

(from Szalt) we passed, on our right, the Watty Szyr,

which has its source near the road, and falls into the

Jordan. Above the source, on the declivity of the

valley, are the ruins called &yr.°* {Syria, p. 364.)

It is probably identical with the Tempos of Ptolemy

which he reckons among the cities of Palestine oa

the east of the Jordan (v. 16). [*>- W.]

IAXYSUS ('IoActfor, 'leUwreoi, or ln\ucaos:

Eth. TaXitrtriof), one of the three ancient Uoric

cities in tlie island of Ithodes, and one of the six

towns constituting the Doric btxapolia. It was si­

tuated only six stadia to the aouth-west of the city

of Rhodes, and it would seem that the rise of the

Utter city was the cause of the decay of lalysos;

for in the time of Strabo (xiv. p. 655) it existed only

as a village. Pliny (v. 30) did not consider it as an

independent place at all, but imagined that lalysu*

was the ancient name of Rhodes. Orychoma, the ci­

tadel, was situated above lalysus, and still existed in

the time of Strabo. It b supposed by some that

