4.111 NILU8. NILUPOLIS.

with Seneca's description of the Nili Paludes is

'• immensss quamm exitus nee incolae noversnt nee

sperare quisquam potest." [Nilus.] [W. B. I).]

NILUTOLIS (N«iAouwoXn, Ptol. t. 5. § S7;

Steph. B. : v.: NeiXoiroAtrni), was a city of Middle

Aegypt, built upon an island of the Nile, in the

Heracloopolite nome, and about eight miles NE. of

Heracleopolis Magna. Nilupolis is sometimes called

simply Nilns, and appears to be the town mentioned

under the latter name by Hecataeus ( Fragment.

277). It was existing as late as the 5th century

A. I)., since it is mentioned in the Acts of the Coun­

cil of Ephesus, a. d. 430. [W. B. D.]

N1LUS (o N.;»»i), the river Nile in Egypt. Of

all the more important rivers of the globe known to

the Greek and Roman writers, the Nile was that

which from the remotest periods arrested their live­

liest curiosity and attention. It ranked with them

as neat in magnitude to the Ganges and the Indus,

and as surpassing the Danube in the length of its

course and the volume of its waters. (Strab. xv.

p. 702.) Its physical phenomena and the peculiar

civilisation of the races inhabiting its banks attracted

alike the historian, the mathematician, the satirist,

and the romance-writer: Herodotus and Diodorus,

Eratosthenes and Strabo, Lucian and Holiodorus,

expatiate on its marvels; and as Aegypt was the

resort of the scientific men of Greece in general, the

Nile was more accurately surveyed and described

than any other river of the earth.

The word Nilus, if it were not indigenous, was of

Semitic origin, and probably transmitted to the

Greeks by the Phoenicians. Its epithets in various

languages—e. g. the Hebrew Sihhor (/suizA, xxiii.

3; Jerem. ii. 18), the Aegyptian Chemi, and the

Greek utAas (Sorvius, ad Virgil. Georg. iv. 291)—

point to the same peculiarity of its waters, the hue

imparted by their dark slime. The Hebrews en­

titled the Nile Nahal-Misraim, or river of Aegypt;

but the natives called it simply p-iero (whence pro­

bably the Nubian hier) or the river (i. e. of rivers).

Lydus (cfe Mcniibus, c. 8) says that it was some­

times termed Has or dark; and Pliny (v. 9. s. 9;

comp. Dionys. Perieg. v. 213) observes, somewhat

vaguely, that in Aethiopia the river was called Siris,

and did not acquire the appellation of Nilus before

it reached Syeno. With few exceptions, however,

the Greeks recognised the name of Nilus as far south

as Meroe; and above that mesopotamian region they

merely doubted to which of its tributaries they should

assign the principal name. Homer, indeed (Od. iii.

300, iv. 477, &c), calls the river Aegyptus, from

the appellation of the land which it intersects. But

Hesiod ( Theug. 338) and Hecataeus (Fragm. 279—

280), and succeeding poets and historians uniformly

designate the river of Aegypt as the Nile.

It is unnecessary to dwell on a theory at one time

received, but generally discredited by the ablest of

the ancient geographers—that the Nile rose in

Lower Mauretania, not far from the Western Ocean

(Juba, ap. l'lin. v. 9. s. 10; Dion Cass. lxxv. 13;

bolin. c. 35); that it flowed in an easterly direction;

was engulphad by the sands of the Sahdra; re­

appeared as the Nigir; again sank in the earth,

and came to light once more near the Great Lake

of JMbaga as the proper Nile.

Historically, the Nile derives its principal import­

ance from the civilisation, to which it contributed so

materially, of the races inhabiting its shores, from

the S. of Meroe northwards to the Mediterranean.

But for geographical purposes it is necessary to ex-

amine its course, in the first instance, through lea

known regions, and to ascertain, if pconbkt, ws> a

of its feeders above Meroe was regarded by the an­

cients as the true Nile. The course of the stream

may be divided into three heads: — (1) the river

S. of Meroe; (2) between Meroe and Syew: and

(3) between Syene, or 1'hilae, and the Mediter­

ranean.

(1.) Tie Kile above Meroe.—Tha aoonu

briefly described the Nile as springing from mar-In

(Nili Paludes) at the foot of the Mountain* tftke

Moon. But as all the rivers which flow north** d

from the Abyssinian highlands rise from Upoues,

and generally expand themselves into broad mar*!**,

this description is too vague. Neither is it dear

whether they regarded the White River, or the Bit*,

or the Astaboras (Tacaae), it the channel of tin

true Nile, The names of rivers are often given ca­

priciously i it by no means follows that tbarj an

imposed upon the principal arm or tributary; aai

hence we can assign neither to the AsUpus Bar a»

the White River, usually considered as the sua

stream, the distinction of being absolutely the " tra*

Nile."

The Nile, as Strabo sagaciously remarks (xi. p.

493), was well known because it was tbe chant«i

of active commerce; and his observation, if sj.pl*4

to its southern portions, may lead us to tb* rhatmsl

which was really regarded as the principal river

even in remotest ages. The stream must frequented

and accessible to navigation, and whuae banks were

the most thickly peopled, was doubt leas the one wbjr L

earliest attracted attention, and this we believe :»

have been the AsUpus {Bahr^LAtrtk, or Blme

River).

As the sources both of the Blue River and of the

Bahr-el-Abiad or the White Hirer are uncertain, it

will be proper to examine these streams above their

point of junction near the modern military statin

at A'Wiura, lat. 1 J° 87'N., long. 33° L Th»

Astaboras (Tacaue) may fur the present be dis­

missed, both as an inferior tributary, and me b*a*w

the meeting of the two main streams.

The White River, which lias been often d™;.

ruled as " the true Nile," baa st no period been eit-«r

a road for traffic nor favourable to the settUmrcn of

man on its banks. It is rather an immenx la-:t«Q

than a river, is often from 5 to 7 miles in bitu i.

and its sides are in general so low as to be covered

at times with alluvial depiait to a divfanra) af

from 2 to 3 miles beyond the stream. On es

shores there is neither any town, nor any traduxa

of there having ever been one; nor indeed, for

many leagues up tbe stream, do there uccur any

spots suited either to the habitation of men, to pas­

ture, or to tillage. On the contrary, it is rvprr»m:ed

by travellers much in the same terms in which Se­

neca (.War. Quaest. vi. 8) speaks of la* Sua

Paludes, as seen by Nero's surveyors. Tha latter

are described by the Human philosopher as * asv-

mensas paludes, quarum exitus nee i-r-trr acvo-

rant, nee sperare quitquaui potest, ita imphvi'-a*

aquis herbae sunt," &c: the former by mmt ex­

plorers at "an interminable tea of gnus," "a tri«i

stagnant marsh," Ik. As tha Whit* Rirar Mstst

approaches the higher table-land of the &, its basks

become less depressed, and are inhabit**; Wit

the weedy lagoons extend nearly 100 uulaa s>W.

of Khartum.

But if we trace upwards the channel of lb* Him

River, a totally different spectacle

