12G4 VEIL VEII.

to such an extent that they threatened to inundate

the surrounding country. The oracle of Delphi was

consulted on the occasion, and the response involved

not only the immediate subject of the application,

but also the remoter one of the capture of Veii.

According to the voice from the sacred tripod, that

eity would be taken when the waters of the lake

wire made to flow off without running directly

into the sea; and the prophecy was confirmed by

the revelation of a Veientine harnspex made during

the interval of the embassy to Delphi. All that we

can infer from this narrative is that the formation of

the e:ni>snrv fur draining the Alban lake was con-

temjv.rjiry with the siege of Veii [cf. Alban us La

CUS, Vol. L p. 29]: the rest must be referred to

the propensity of the ancients to ascribe every great

event to the intervention of the gods; for we have

already seen that Fidenae w;is captured by means

of a cuniculus, a fact which there does not appear to

be any valid reason to doubt, and therefore tbe emis­

sary of the lake cannot be regarded as having first

suggested to the Romans the method of taking a

city by mine.

The honour of executing this project was re­

served for the dictator M. Furius Camillas. For­

tune seemed to have entirely deserted the Veien-

tines: for though the pleading of the Capeuates

and Falisci on their behalf had made some impres­

sion on the national assembly of the Ktruscans. their

attention was diverted in another direction by a

sudden irruption of the Cisalpine Gauls. Mean­

while Camillas, haying defeated some bodies of

troops who endeavoured to relieve Veii, erected a

line of forts around it, to cut oft* all communication

with the surrounding country, and appointed some

corps of miners to work continually at the cunicu-

lus. When the mine was completed, he ordered a

picked body of his moat valiant soldiers to penetrate

through it, whilst he himself diverted tlie attention

of the inhabitants by feigned attack* in different

quarters. So skilfully had the mine been directed

that the troops who entered it emerged in the temple

of Juno itself, in the highest part of the citadel.

The soldiers who guarded the walls were thus taken

in the rear; the gates were thrown open, and the city

BOOH filled with Romans. A dreadful massacre en­

sued; the town was sacked, and those citizens who

had escaped the sword were sold into slavery. The

image of Juno, the tutelary deity of Veii, was car­

ried to Rome and pompously installed on Mount

Aventine, where a magnificent temple was erected

to her, which lasted till the abolition of paganism.

(Lit. v. 8, 12. 13, 15—22; Cic. Die. i. 44, ii. 32;

Pint. Cam. 5, sq.; Flor. i. 12.)

Veii was captured in the year S96 b. C Its

territory wae divided among the citizens of Rome

at the rate of seven jugera per head. A great de­

bate arose between the senate and the people whether

Wii should be repopulated by Roman citizens, and

thus made as it were a second capital; but at the

persuasion of Camillue the project was abandoned.

But though the city was deserted, its buildings were

not destroyed, as is shown by several facts. Thus,

after the battle of the Allia and the taking of Rome

by the Gauls, the greater part of the Romans retired

to Veii and fortified themselves there; and when

the Gauls were ex(#1 led, the question was mooted

whether Rome, which had been reduced to ashes,

should be abandoned, and Veii converted into a new

capital. But the eloquence of Camillus again de­

cided the Romans for the negative, and the question

was set at rest for ever. This took peace a M

389. Some refractory citizens, however, vat fc-

liked the trouble of rebuilding their on nana*

Rome, took refuge in the empty ones of Ysiai

set at nought a seiiatusronsnjium utijauBf uai

to return; bat they were at knarta csaaaat

to come back by a decree of capital panaaaas

against those who remained at Veii beyond tear

prescribed. (Lir. t. 49. aqq., tL 4.)

From this time Veii was completely desirssi rc

went gradually to decay. Cicero (ad fnri^

speaks of the measuring of tbe Veientine terotar/ar

distribution; and it was probably divided by Cvr

among his soldiers in B.C. 45- (PlaL Cm.il)

Propertius also describes its walls as existnf nss

time; bat the space within consisted of neka*a*t

the shepherd fed his flock, and which were lacs saw

the operation of the decernpeda (it. 10. 29V M|

however, rather difficult to reconcile this eanaasry,

unless there were two distributions. Cesar mm

apiiears to have planted a colour at the imntaP,

and thus arose the second, or Roman, Vea, inna

seems to luive been considerable euooxh t* anean

an assault during the wars of the triumvir*. 1st

inhabitants were again dispersed, and tbe oaan

was not re-erected till towards the end of tie met

of Augustus, when it assumed the name cf naav

cipiuin Augustum Veiens, as appears froen aacrav

tions. (Cf. Auct. de ColomX*.) When Haras,

flourished in the reign of Hadrian, asserts (i. 12);**

scarcely a vestige remained to mark the tpat i

Veii once stood, he either writes with great can

neas or is alluding to tbe ancient and Etnjseae Vei

The existenre of the municipium in the leseasat

Augustus and Tiberius is attested by several Mo­

ments discovered in its rains; and i

also found there show that it was in «

as late as the reign of Const actios Chloraa. tit

monuments alluded to consist partly of acaJatnaa

relating to those emperors and their tad

partly of inscriptions. Amongst th»

most important is now preserved in the i

Museum at Rome, recording the ■diuiisaiai af feaa

Julius Gelotes, a freed man of Ang-a&tau, Is ant

office of an Augustalis, by the ceniocrriri W Vai

It is dated in the consulship of GaetuEcaft aut

Calvisius Sabinus, A.U.C 779=a. C 26. woe

13th year of the reign of Tiberias. It i

by Kabretti (Inter, p. 170), but l

the original by Xibby in bis Dmtonml di Hamm («■»

iii. p. 409) The accents are worthy of acta. Aassar.

the centnmTirs whose names are subscribed H ta»

decree are thtue of two of tbe Tarqajtiaa naan>.

namely, M. Tarqaitius Sat urn inn* and T. Tsa-

qnitius Rufus. This family, whkh piudarea a ©aV

brated writer on Etruscan divination ( Macron, jet

7). seems to have belonged to Yen and fc» haw

enjoyed considerable importance then, aa tw» eaW

inscriptions relating to it hare favea eaosani.

One of these records the restoration af a atafiar

erected in honour of M. TanjuiUos Saf**aaaaa at

the -J2nd Legion; tbe other i» a tablet of Taaaaaua

I'risca dedicated to ber husband M. Saes.w aaa>

cellus. (Nibby, lb. p. 410, so.) Thm aaaaa> *

I'riscus is the meet celebrated of the Gmm Tar-

quitia. One of these was the accuser af Suauaaa

Taurus in the reign of Claudia*, i

condemned under the lav of I

reign of Nero. (Tac Am*. aiL 5^. xj* 44;

There are various coins of tbe Tar^anua. (Sanaa*

I). N. V. p. 322.) After tbe asm of Caaafasamua

