2 12 LUCUS ANGITIAE. LUCBINUS LACUS.

bonrhood of liis Sabine farm; and this is admitted

hy nil the old commentators, who with one accord

call it " Bfons in Sebinis," but without giving am*

further clue to its position. The identification of

this must therefore depend Upon that of Horace's

Siibine villa; but this being clearly established near

fJeenza [Digehtia], we cannot refuse to recognise

LucretHifl in Mtmte Gennarot a lofty mountain

inasa which rises nearly due W. of Licenza, standing

out prominently towards the plain of the Campagna,

so that it is one of the moot conspicuous of the

Apennines as seen from Koine. On tin* side towards

the plain it rises very steeply and abruptly, but on

the reverse or Sabine side it has a much more

gentle slope, and fully deserves Horace's epithet of

"amoenus,"—being furrowed by deep valleys, the

hides of which are clothed with woods, while nearer

the summit are extensive pastures, much resorted to

by cattle in summer, (dell, Top. of Horn*, pp. 270

—273; SibbytZ>wiormTvol.ii.pp.105—107.) The

highest point is 4285 English feet above the sea.

Whether the name ofMons LucretiHs was applied

to the highest part of the mountain, now called

Monte Gennaro, which is so conspicuous from

Rome, or was a more local appellation for the peaks

nearer the valley of the Digentia, cannot now be

determined ; but there is little doubt that the two

names belong at least to the same mass or group of

mountains. [K. H. ft. J

LUCRl'NTJS LACUS (6 Aonpivos kuAwos, Strab:

Logo Lucrum), a salt-water lake or lagoon, adjoin­

ing the gulf of ltaiae on the coast of Campania. It

was situated just at the bight or inmost point of the

deep bay between Puteoli and ltaiae, and was sepa­

rated from the outer sea only by a narrow strip or

hank of sand, in all probability of natural origin, but

the construction of which was ascribed by a tradition

or legend, frequentlyalluded to by the Roman poets, to

Hercules, and the road along it is said to have been

commonly called in consequence, the Via Herculea or

Heraclea, According to Strabo it was 8 stadia in

length, and wide enough to admit of a road for wag­

gons. (Diod. iv. 22; Strab. v. p. 245; Lycophr.

Alex. 697; Propert. iv. 18. 4; SU. ltal. xii.

116—ISO.) On the other side, the Lucrine

lake was separated only by a narrow spate

from the lake Avernus, which was, however, of a

wholly different character, being a deep basin of

fresh water, formed in the crater of an extinct vol­

cano; while the Lacus Lucrinus, in common with

all similar lagoons, was very shallow, and was for

that reason well adapted fur producing oysters and

other shell-fish, for the excellence of which it was

celebrated. (Hor. Epod, ii. 49, Sat ii. 4. 32;

Juven, iv. 141; Patron. Sat p. 424; Martial, vi.

11. 5, xiii. 9i); Van*, up. Aon. p. 216.) These

oyster-beds were so valuable as to be tanned out at

a high price, and Caesar was induced by the con­

tractors to repair the dyke of Hercules for their pro­

tection. (Serr. ad Geary, ii. 161.)

The Lucrine lake is otherwise known chiefly in

connection with the treat works of Agrippa for the

construct! n of the so-called Jri.u s Pouti'S, al­

luded to in two well-known passages of Virgil and

Horace. (Virg. Georg, ii. 161 —163; Hot. AnPoet.

63.) It i»not easy to understand exactly the nature

of these works; but the object of Agrippa was obvi­

ously to obtain a perfectly secure and land-locked

basin, for anchoring his fleet and for exercising his

newly-raised crews and rowers. For this purpose he

seeina to have opened an entrance to the lake I

Avernus by a cut or canal from the LftCTUM UU.

and must, at the same time, have opened • channrl

from the latter into the bay, sufficiently deep fa th

passage of large vessels. Hut, together with tl>i»

work, be strengthened the natural barrier of the Lu­

crine lake against the sea by an artificial dyke of

dam, so as to prevent the waves from brcakinc

it as they previously did during heavy pales. (Strab,

v. p. 245; Dion Cass, atlviii. SO; Suet Aug. 16;

Veil. Pat. ii. 79; Serr, et Pbilargyr. ad Yinj. I. c;

Plin. xx.wi. 15. a. 24.) It is clear from the ac­

counts of thrr.e works that they were perfectly Me-

Cessful for a time, ami they appear to have elated

the greatest admiration; but they were suiofi aban­

doned, probably from the natural difficulties proving

insuperable; and, from the time that the ^atwimJ

the Koman fleet was established at Mi.-timin, we

hear no more of the Julian Port. Even in the tin*

of Strabo it seems to have fallen into complete dis­

use, for he says distinctly, that the lake Avernoi

was deep and well adapted for a port, but asa||sal

he Used us stick on account of the Lucrine lika

which was shallow and broad, lying between it sad

the tea (v. p. 244). And again, a little further ai

(p. 245), lie sjfcaks of the latter as useless SSI

harbour, and accessible only to small vessels, baj

producing abundance of oysters. At a later llfl

Cassiodorus (l"«r. \x. 6) describes it in a tr-snaa

which implies that a communication was still opa

with the lake Avernus as well as with theses. Ill

two lakes are now separated by a corshmH

breadth of low sandy ground, but it is probable tfas

this was formed in great part by the memorial

volcanic eruption of 1538, when the hill now eatta

Monte Xuon>, 413 feet in height and abort 800

feet in circumference, was thrown up in the coon

of two days, and a large part of the Lucrine I

filled up at the same time. Hence the present aspa

of the lake, which is reduced to a mere marshy pa

full of mils, affords little assistance in comprehend

iug tlie ancient localities. (Daubeny, (hi!

pp. 208—210.) It is said that some portka* i

the piers of the port of Agrippa, as well as ffl

of the dyke or bank ascribed to Hercules, are an*

visible under the level of the water. [E. Ii. B.]

LUCUS ANGITIAE (Eth. Lucenste: lm

a place on the W. shore of the lake Fuciuus, in ll

territory of the Marsi, originally, as its name ■

ports, nothing more than a sanctuary of the godAl

Angitia, but which seems to have gradually gras

up into a town. This was sometimes culled, ael

learn from an inscription, Asc;m.v; hut the fle>

of Lucus or Lucus Angitiae must have breu i

more prevalent, as we find the inhabitants stylsdl

Pliny simply Lucenses, and the modern name

Luco or Lugo points to the same conclusion. U

evident, both from Pliny and from the iixripO

referred to, that il was a mmiicij-al town, hartnfj

own local magistrates. (Plin. in. 12. s. 17; Oat

/riser. 115.) About half a mile X. of the modi

village of Luco, and close to the shores of the lei

are the remains of ancient walls conducted ist I

polygonal style, but which, from their paean

could never have been designed as fortiricjiticaw; •

the.M* probably formed part of the sacred enclosi

or Peribolus of the grove aud temple. The atta

now marked, as is so often the case in Italy, bj .

ancient church. (Nibby, Viaggio Awtttt/. vwL

p. 210; Class. Mus. vol. ii. p. 175, Dote.) Vi|

alludes in a well-known passage to the **tsfa

Angitiae" (Atn. vii. 75'J), where tlie name of

