70 ISSUS. ISSUS.

N\V. and forms Strabo's Amanides Pylae, unite in

the interior, as Strabo says (p. 535); and our mo­

dern ma pa represent it so. There is a plain at the

head of the gulf. Strabo gives a greater extent to

the L>sic gulf than we do to the gulf of Scandervon,

fur he makes it extend along the Cilician coast as

far as Cilicia Trachea, and certainly to Soli (pp. 534,

604). In another passage (p. 125) he shows what

extent he gives to the gulf of Issus, by placing

Cyprus in the Pamphylian sea and in the gulf of

Issus,—the west part of the island being in the Pam­

phylian, and the east in the lssic gulf. The gulf uf

Jikcnderun was surveyed by Li. Murphy in the

Euphrates expeditiun under the command of Colonel

Chesney.

The ancient geographers did not agree about the

position of the inthmus of the country which we call

Asia Hi nor; by which isthmus they meant the

shortest distance across the eastern part of the pen­

insula from the Euxine to the Mediterranean. Strabo

(p. 673) makes this shortest distance lie along a

line joining Amisus and Tarsus. If he had said

Amisus and the head of the gulf of Issus, he would

have been quite right. He was nearly correct as to

the longitude of the head of the gulf of Issus, which

he places in the meridian of Amisus and Themiscyra

(p. 126); und in another passage he says that the

head of the gulf of Issus is a little more cast than

Amisus, or not at all more east (p. 519). Amisus

is, in fact, a little further east than the most eastern

part of the gulf of Issus. The longest direction of

the inhabited world, according to St moo's system

(p. 118), fnun west lo east, is measured on a line

drawn through the Stelae (Straits of Gibraltar^),

and the Sicilian strait (Straits of Messina), to

1( hod us and the gulf of Issus, whence it follows tin-

Taurus, which divides Asia into two parts, and ter­

minates on the eastern sen. Those ancient geogra­

phers who made the isthmus of the Asiatic peninsula

extwid from Issus to the Euxine, considered the

shortest line across the isthmus to be a meridian

line, and the dispute was whether it ran to Sinope

or Amisua (Strab. p. 678). The choice of Issus as

the point on the Mediterranean to reckon from, shows

that Issus was the limit, or most eastern point, on

the south coast of the peninsula, and that U was not

on that part of the bay of Issus where the coast runs

south. Consequently Issus was on or near the head

t-i the gulf. Herodotus (iv. 38) makes the southern

side of this peninsula, or Acte, as he calls it, extend

fnun the Myriandric gulf (gulf of Issus) to the

Triupian promontory, which is quite correct. On

the north side he makes it extend from the mouth

uf the Phasis to the promontory Sigeum, which is

correct as to the promontory; but he carries the

neck too far east, when he makes it brgin at the

I'basis. This mistake, however, shows that he

knew something of the position of the mouth of the

1*basis, for he intends to make the Acte begin at

that part where the coast of the Euxine begins to

lie west and east; and though the mouth of the

Phasis is not exactly at this point, it was the best

known river of any near it. In another passage

(L 72), which, like many others in his history, is ob­

scurely expressed, he describes the neck (o^r) °f

this Acte as nearly cut through by the river Halys;

and he makes its width from the sea opposite to

Cyprus to the Euxine to be 6vc days' journey fur

an active man,—an estimate very much short of the

truth, even if we allow Greek activity to walk 30

miles a day through a rough country. Strabo's re<

port from hearsay (vol. i. p. 538), that the lay of

Issus can be seen from the summit of Argaeu*

[Akoakits], is very improbable.

Xenophou says that Cyrus marched 15 jarasangs

from the Py ramus (JaUtun) "to Issi, the utteniH^t

city of Cilicia, on the sea, great and prosperous."

; From Issus to the Pylae of Cilicia and Syria, the

boundary between Syria and Cilicia, was five javra-

( sangs, and here was the river Carsus (Xen. Amah.

I i. 4. § 4). The next stage was five paxasang* U

| Myriandrus, a town in Syria on the sea, occupied by

j Phoenicians, a trading place (tuxoptov), where

many merciiant ships were lying. Cars ten NiebuLr,

who went through the l'ylae Ciliciae to Tarsus, has

some remarks on the probable bite of Issus, but

they lead to no conclusion (vol. i. p. 116), except

that we cannot certainly determine the site of I«u*

from Xenophon; and yet he would give us the best

means of determining it, if we knew where he crossed

the Py ramus, and if we were also certain that the

numbers in the Greek text are correct.

The nearest road to Susa from Sardis was through

the Cilician plains. The difficulties were the jsuvsage

into the plains by the Ciliciae l*yiae or pa*-s [Vol. L

p. 619], and the way out of the plains along the

gulf of Issus into Syria. The great road to Susa

which Herodotus describes (v. 49, 52), went north

of the Taurus to the Euphrates. The land furce*

in the expedition of Datis and Artapberues, b. c

490, crossed the Syrian Amanus, and went a» fax as

the Aleian plain in Cilicia; and there they em­

barked. (Herod, vi. 95.) They did not march by

land through the Cilician Pylae over the Taurus

into the interior of the peninsula; but Mardonius

(Herod, vi. 43), in the previous expedition had led bis

troops into Cilicia, and sent them on by laud to the

Hellespont us, while he took ship and sailed lo Ionia.

The land force of Mardonius must liave passed out

of Cilicia by the difficult pass iu the Taurus, [VuL.

L p. 619.]

Shortly before the battle of Issus (n. c. .WJ)

Alexander was at Mallos, when he heard that Darius

with all his force was at Sochi in Assyria; which

place was distant two inarches from the Assyrian

Pylae. (Arrian, Anab. ii. 6.) M Assyria" and ** Aa-

syrian" here mean " Syria" and ** Syrian." Danus

had crossed the Euphrates, probably at Thap-acus,

and was encamped in an open country in Syria,

which was well suited for his cavalry. The jdace

Sochi is unknown: but it may be the place which

Curtius calls Unchae. (Q. Curt. iv. 1.) Amu

says that Alexander left Malic*, and on the seciaui

day he passed through the Pylae and reached My­

riandrus: he does not mention Issus on this march-

Now the shortest distance that Alexander could

march from Mallos to Scatuitrorm is at least 7o

miles, and if Myriandrus wan south »>f Sctrndenxm,

it was more than 70 miles. This Matement of Ar­

rian as to time is therefore false. Curtius (Hi. 8)

says that Alexander only reached Castabalum [Caa-

TABAl.rsf] on the second day from Mallos; that he

went through Issus, and there deliberated whether

he should go on or halt. Darius crossed the Amanus,

which separates Syria from the bay of Issus, by a

pass called the Amanicar Pylae (Arrian, U. 7), and

advancing to Issus, was in the rear of Alexander,

who had parsed through tin* Cilician and Syrian

Pylae. Darius came to the pass in the Amanus,

sayi Curtius, on toe same night that Alexander

came to the pass (fauces) by which Syria is entered

The place where Darius crossed the Amanus *s*>

