PELASGI PELASGI.

(ritfi) says the Pelasgians drove out tlio Mi-

. iV4aJLd«laernoiiiaus from Lernnos. The per-

ptinbn of the Lemnian massacre were Pelagians.

(Hrwt ri. 138— 140; compare Pind. /yA. Od.

it 448 [m, Bkh.]; Orph. -4rp. v. 470; Stanley,

LDM.il Amtk Choeph. 631.)

Utnictmalso reckons the inhabitants of seven-

tan ttUnds on the coast of Asia as belonging to the

fiiaciu race (vii. 95). According to Strabo (xiii.

f. til) Macerates declared the whole coast of

1.4*. l*gini:ing at Mycale, to be peopled by Pelasgi,

-J :Le Deiglibooring islands likewise: "and the  
UtAci ay they were under the command of

ryUru, who was called by the poet the leader of

s> iviugi, and from whom their mountain was

aM fyueom. And the Chians say their founders

•« Pea*jri frcm Tneasalj.**

IVsthm (i. 18) says that the first Pelasgian

•aw tu led by Wacar to Lesbos, after the Pelasgi

kd ban driven oat of Thessaly.

D-Akm Siculus (v. 81) gives a different account

iia colony. He says that Xantbtis, the son of

pu. chief of the Pelasgi from ArgusT settled

■ Ljeia, and afterwards crossed over with his

■tn into Lesbos, which he found unoccupied,

U JxrW«i among them. This was seven genera-

fa* before the flood of Deucalion. When this oc-

Lcsbu was desolated, and Macs re us. grandson

(according to Hesiod), occupied it a second

la* tsd the island received its name from his son-

Scymnoiof Chios (quoted by Kruse, Hellas)

d ft£a*gians being in Sciathos and Scyros.

*' oat come to

Tit Pebugvms in Asia.—On this point we

Hxxr'i authority that there were Pelasgians

tie Trojan allies, ranked with Leleges, Cau­

sed Lydans, and called Sum. (//. x. 429.)

beat was killed by Ajax, in the battle over

of Patroclus,—Hippothous, son of Lethus.

288.)

speaks (vii. 42) of Antandros as a

city, and afterwards (vii. 95) says that

4"mw were formerly called Pelasgians by the

aod tint when they fought against the

tkry Ten Hellenic armour,

(v. p.221) quotes Homer's statement that

Jatvfcionn o/ the Cilicions in the Troas were

■as, and that they dwelt about Larissa. (//.

) This name probably signifies a fortress

a precipice or overhanging rock, and is an

wherever it occurs, of the presence of

Taere were several places of the same

c Greece and two or three in Asia Minor,

tn enumerated! by Strabo (ix. p. 440, xiii.

\ According to this geographer most of the

■ *en? Lclrges and Pelasgi. They first ©ecu­

's* blind*, then toe Ma-coast. He argues,

aww'i expression ** the tribes of Pelasgians"

MO i, that their number was considerable.

(l 18) says that the Pehisgi, on being

■at of TheMtaly, cropped over into Asia, and

May cities on the aeavcoast.

were in existence in the time of Ho­

lt Usavy, ScyUce and Plaeie, on the Pro-

w£jca be believed to be Pelasgian cities, and

ae says (l 57). spoke similar dialects, but

flaw neighbours. That dialect was,

testhnociT, not Greek, but resembling

h**t of the Crotoniatar, or rather Crcstonians,

, tke Edones in Thrace.

H Tkrismil, comparing this passage with

another, in which Herodotus is enumerating the

dialects that prevailed among the Ionian Greeks,

and uses the same terms, infers from the comparison

that M the Pelasgian language which Herodotus

heard on the Hellespont and elsewhere sounded to

him a strange jargon; as did the dialect of Ephesus

to a Milesian, and as the Bolognese does to a Flo­

rentine" (vol. i. p. 53). Mr. Grote differs from

Bishop Thirlwall in his estimate of these expressions

of Herodotus, who, he thinks, must have known

better than any one whether a language which he

heard was Greek or not, and concludes that "He-

rodutus pronounces the Pelasgians of his day to

speak a substantive language differing from Greek;

but whether differing from it in a greater or less

degree (e. g. in the degree of Latin or of Phoenician),

we have no means of deciding" (vol. i. pp. 351—

353).

Heeren (Ancient Greece, p. 38, note) has some

remarks on Herodotus's opinion respecting the lan­

guage spoken by the Pelasgians in his day, in which

he seems to raise an imaginary difficulty that he

may have the pleasure of overthrowing it.

Before quitting the coasts of the Aegean, it is

necessary to quote Thucydides's observation (iv.

109), that " the Pelasgian race is said to be the

most widely prevalent in the Chalcidic peninsula

and in the adjoining islands;" and the legend pre­

served by Athenaeus (xiv. p. 639), "that Thessaly

was, in the time of Pelasgus, suddenly converted by

an earthquake from a vast lake into a fertile plain,

irrigated by the Peneius, the waters of which he-

fore had been shut in by mountains."

The latter is a poetical version of a geological

truth, which, though not falling within the province

of history, recommends itself at once to the notice of

the geographor.

We now come to

IV. The Pelasgians in Italy.—Legendary history

has connected the Pelasgic race with more than one

portion of the Italic peninsula. The name Oenotria,

by which the southern part of Italy was foruierly

known (see Aristotle, Pol. vii. 10) suggests an af­

finity between the early inhabitants of that country

and the Arcadian Pelasgians. The name Tyrrheni

or Tyrseni, which we have seen is used identically

with that of Pelasgi, suggests another link. In­

numerable legends, which furnished logographers

with the subject-matter of their discourse, connected

the Unibrians, the Peucetians, and other tribes in

the north of Italy and on the coast of the Adriatic

with the Pehugiaus from Epirus and ThessaJy.

Some of these are given by Strabo. He quotes

Anlicleides to the effect that some of the Lemniaa

Pelasgians crossed over into Italy with Tyrriieims,

son of Atys (v. p. 221). Again, he quotes Hiero-

nymus's assertion, that the Thessalian Pelasgians

were driven out from the neighbourhood of Laritsa

by the Lapithae, and took refuge in Italy (ix.

p. 443).

Pausaniass account of the Pelasgian colony led

by Oenotrns has already been given. LHonysius

(i. 11. p. 30) confirms it, saying " Oenotrus sou

of Lycaon led a colony into Italy seventeen ge­

nerations before the Trojan War." According to

Dionysius, a colony of Pelasgians came over from

Thessaly and settled among the Aborigines, with

whom they waged war against the Sicels (i. 17. p.

45.)

Another body ciunc from tlic neighbourhood of

Dodona, whence, finding the territory unable to sup­

