TAPROBANE. TAPROBANE. 1003

■njof the Holy Law, which u confirmed by another

w of unloeous character, Andrasiinundu (Ptol.

promontory now called Calpentyn (Mannert,

ji. 211). The ancient city noticed by Pliny,

i, tlic royal palace, must be that elsewhere called

^••ypummon, and by the natives Anurdjdjmra,

n>vil seat of empire from b. c. 267 to a. d.

* (M'lhavuuso, Intr. p. bti.). (For other de-  
-ra yf Palaesimundu, bee Dud well, JJtisert.

Gtogr. J/ifl p. 95; Wahl, Krdbetchr. ii. p. 684;

audut, ilnc. /£>/at. de« /iu4m, p. 133; Malte-

m, Prku He Giogr. iv. 113; Mannert, i. p. 210;

Moo-a-St. Birth, Voyage aux Indts, ii. p. 432.)

p conjecture of Wilford {At. Ret. x. p. 148)

: it if ay be Sumatra, and of Hecren (Soc. Reg.

tng. voL vii. p. 32) that it is the town of

fltfemoUe," do not need refutation.

'Le other names which this island has borne

nu to have been as follow: SaJice, with its in-

ftintt, the Salae, Serendivus, Sielediba, Sereitdib,

in, Ceylon. These are all closely connnected

in reality euphonic modifications of one ori-

.? f->rm. The first, Sal ice, — perhaps more cor-

Ir Saline,— which seems to have been in use

r. h->lemy wrote the common name of Taprobane

•X > certainly derivable from Sinala, the Pali

d Sinttala {Afahavr. cap. vii. p. 50): from this

Id naturally come the 2itAe of Cosmos (Cosm.

rnpL Lc.% the termination of this name,8t$a, being

:nff more tlian the Sanscrit dwipa, an island.

:n the same neighbourhood the LakkaaVtw and

fcar bland*.) The slight and common inter-

Ce of the L and K gives the Serendivus of

toanus (xxii. 7). From this, again, we obtain

■we modern forms of the Arabic, Dutch, and

Sinhala would mean the abode of lions—

a «ord is found with the same sense, and the

Sinptiaio, in the narrative of* the Chinese travel-

rtw visited Ceylon in a. d. 412. (Foc-koue-ki,

p. 328, Annot. p. 336). Beside* these

4 there is one other whereby alone this island

wn in the sacred Brahtninical writings. This

mta (see MaJiubh. ii. 30, v. 1177, iii. c 278,

It it moat likely that this name had pasted

fane befere the time of Alexander, as it is nut

> r.rd hy any of the classical writers: it has

.however, preserved by the Buddhists, as may

n from the notices in the A/ahawatuo (pp. 2,

1 \c).(Comp. also Colebroukc, £u.ii.p.427;

■ ra At. Ret. iL p. 229.)

y*tei is a rery mountainous island, the greater

» being grouped towards the southern end,

'r.mnp thereby the watershed for most of its

- The ancients had a tolerably accurate know-  
'4 the position of these hills. To the N. were

Hiajtea Galibi, terminating in a promontory

tVffvam (now Cope Pedro), and overlooking

'""ipal capital, Anurajdpura. To the S. the

ctain was known by tlie generic name of Afalea,

a fbnn derived from the Sanscrit Mala,

islam. The centre of this group is the well-

= A'iam't Peak—in the native Pali language,

id A'bM (the Mountain of the Gods) (Upham,

of Boott of Ceylon, iii. p. 202), and the high

**w called Neatra-Ellin.

• (rincipaJ rivers of Ceylon, as known to the

•, were the Fhasis, which flowed from the

'iiiibi in a northern direction; the Ganges

y<tkirak' Ganga), the chief of all the

ra whereby the inland is watered, the prin-

Ktirce of which is in the S. range, of which

Adams Peak is the pre-eminent mountain (Brooke

on AfaJtattlla- Ganga, Roy. Geograph. Journ. iii.

p. 223), and whose course is nearly KK.; the

Baraces, which rose in the 31. Malea, and flowed

SE. ; and tlie Soanas, which flows from the samo

source in a westerly direction. Besides these rivers

was the celebrated lake called Megisba. the size of

which has been extravagantly overstated by Pliny

(vi. 22. s. 24). It is probable that this lake was

formed by the connecting together of several great

tanks, many remains of which still exist ; and thus

Forbiger suggests that it may be near the months of

the Mahdvali-Ganga, in which neighbourhood there

are still extraordinary remains of canals, earthworks,

&c. (Brooke, I.e.). It was on the shores of this

lake that Pliny placed the capital Palaesimundum,

with a population of 200,000 souls. The island

was rich in towns and peoples, which are not clearly

distinguished by ancient writers; of these the

Anurogrammi with the town Anurogrammc.it (now

Anurajdpura) is the most important. The great­

ness of this place, which was the royal residence)

of the kings from B.C. 267 to a d. 769 (Maha-

wanso, Jntrod. p. lxi.), is shown by the va»t remains

which still exist on the srot. (Chapman, Ancient

Anurajdpura, in Trans. Roy. At. Soc. ii. pi. ii.

p. 463).

Other less known peoples and places were the

Soani, Sandocandae, Rhogandani, Danae (now

Tangalle), the Morduli with their seaport Mor-

dulamne, the Nagadibi, Spartans (now Trinro.

mali)t Maagrammon (probably lamankadaure), and

the Modutti. For these and many more we are in­

debted to Ptolemy, who from his own account (i.

17. § 4), examined the journals and conversed wilh

several persons who had visited the island. It is a

strong confirmation of what he states, that a con­

siderable number of the names preserved can be

re-produced in the native Indian form.

The people who inhabited the island were for the

most part of Indian descent, their language being

very nearly connected wilh the Pali, one of the

most widely spread Indian dialects. To this race

belong all the monuments which remain of its former

greatness, together with a very curious and authentic

series of annals which have been of late brought to

light by the exertions of Sir Alexander Johnston

and the critical acumen of Mr. Tumour (Alaha-

wauso) and Upham (Sacr. Hitt. Bookt). There

are, however, still existing in the island some few

specimens of a wholly ditl'erent race, locally known

by the name of the Veddaht. These wild and un­

civilised people, are found in the Yalleya and woods

to the E. and S. of the Slahdvali-Gamga; and are,

in all probability, the remains of the aboriginal

race who dwelt in the land antecedent to the arrival

of Vigaya and his Indian followers. In physiognomy

and colour they bear a striking resemblance to the

earliest inhabitants of the S. provinces of 1 Undo* tan

and are, most likely, of similarly Scythic origin.

(Knox, Account of Ceylon, Lond. 1657; Perceval,

Account of Ceylon, Lond. 1803; Gardiner, Deter,

of Ceylon, Lond. 1807; Davy, Ceylon and itt in­

habitants, Lond. 1821; W. Hamilton, India, ii.

522; Hitter,iv. 2. p. 226; Lassen,Inditche Alterth.

L p. 198; DitterU de Taprobane, Bonn, 1632;

Tumour, Mahawanto, Ceylon, 1836; Jour. Atiat.

Beng. vi. 856; Chapman, Anc. City of Anurajdpura,

in Tr. R. At. Soc. iii. 463; Chitty, Ruint of 7am-

mana Awtrtro, in R. At. Soc. vi. 242; Brooke,

iiahavella-Ganga, R. Geogr. Soc. iii. 223.) [V.]

4 a 3

