SILOS. 433 NILUS.

lim ant, in the Connie of nges, converted into

LtrArrypt. In aH historical periods, however, the

iw bai discharged itself into the aea by two main

imi, farming the sides of an isosceles triangle, the

inline, of the Delta proper, and by a number of

■ f-.vriith rati (iinrii tu the sea. while

itlsn discharged their waters into the principal

«a rf the main stream. The Delta is, indeed, a

srt-rwk of rivers, primary and secondary; and is

'kt m'mected by numerous canals. The pri-

aarj thairacls were usually accounted by the an-

"rt, irm in number (Herod, ii. 17; Scylax,

HI. Strab. xvii.p.801,seq.; Diodor. i. 33; Ptol.

■ ijlO; Plin. v. 10. a. II; Mela, i. 9. § 9;

*=■»■, iiii. 15, 16; Wilkinson, .V. <f C, Mod.  
: aad Tktbts. A*c), and may be taken in the

*>: iallywiag. They are denominated from some  
i. d:T >ra:e,i on their banks, and are enume-

•tKfnmtto W.

1- Behaving from the E.. was the Pelusian

n (ta UtKoveuucbf 0-tomo. Strab. xvii. p. 801;

Issaat Pelasiacam, Plin. v. 9. s. 9). This has

a* btcau dry; and even when Strabo wrote a

i;« the first century A. D., Pelusium, which

■at m as banks, and from which it derived its

was*, was nearly 2 \ miles from the sea (xvii. p.

**H The remains of the city are now more than  
It-' tats that distance. Upon the banks of the

nbau arm stood, on the eastern side, and near

w» «?a of the Delta, Heliopolis, the On of Scrip-

mi SO mile* lower down, Bubastus (Tel

I The Tanitic arm (to Tas-iTUfOi* ffTo)ia, or to

Vnne. Herod, u. 17; comp. Strab. xvii. p. 802;

i J. j J. Catapystum). The present canal of

prufcably coincides nearly with the Tanitic

«Wh, however, together with the Ostium

a. has been absorbed in the lower portion

use by the lake Mtmalth. It derived its

■ Tasia, toe Znui of Scripture, the modem

J*»iat 31°, coec/the oldest cities of the Delta.

Tat Hfdniiii arm (to Mtvtriaioy o-rifxa,

t 4r.) wat a channel running from the Seben-

Xiannn. It is now lost in the lake Mcn-

^Tae Pbatnitic or Pathmetic arm (to +ot-

P»» rr»»«, Strab.; ♦aTTurbi', Diod. i. 33;

, Ptol iv. 5. §§ 10, 40; Pathrneticum,

5 This was the BovKo\utbv arofia

(u. 17); but it seems doubtful whether

at flriginal channel, and not rather a canal,

■await with the lower portion of the present

atwiarh «f the Nile.

Tie Sekttniytic arm (to ZtStwvrntbv ffrufia)

i Dame from the city of Sebennytus, the

watanwaf. As far as this city the JJami-

■ represents the ancient Sebennytic; but

•TUna point, lat. 31°, the earlier channel

■ tht nances or sands, which separate the

&eilafrom the Mediterranean; and its mouth,

^§"*t nearly due N. of Memphis, is now covered

B^sii of Bomrla*. The Sebennytic arm, con-

■ the direction of the Nile before its divi-

irly in a straight course from

to be regarded not so much as

\ ■ Nr.::;' hea as the main stream

Tsu eaanwL, together with the most easterly,

fcwa\watl the most westerly, the Canopic,

** tint wain arms of the Nile, and carried  
*• tat sea by far the greater volumes of

r

6. The Bolbitic or BolbitlM arm (to BoAStrtKbv

ffrofia, Strab. xvii. p. 803; Sty], p. 43; or BoA&t.toc,

•Herod, ii. 17; Diodor. i. 33; BoKSItivov, PtoL iv.

5. §§ 10, 43; Bolbiticum, Mela, i. 9. § 9; Am-

mian. xxii. 15), was, like the Phatnitic, originally

an artificial canal, and seems in the time of Hero­

dotus to have been a branch connecting the Seben­

nytic with the Canopic channels (ii. 17), having,

however, an outlet of its own, probably as a back­

water during the inundation, to the Mediterranean.

The Bolbitic arm is now represented by so much of

the Rosetta branch of the Nile as runs between the

sea and the ancient course of the Ostium Cano-

picum.

7. The Canopic arm (to KavuGtiebv trrrf^a, Strab.

I. c; comp. Aristot. Hfeteorol. i. 14; Ostium Cano-

picum, Mela, i. 9. § 9; Plin. v. 10. b. 11) was also

termed the Naucratic arm of the Nile, Ostium Nau-

craticum (Plin. I. &), from the city of Naucratis,

which was seated on its left bank. This was the most

westerly, and one of the three great branches of the

Nile (see Pelusian, Sebennytic). In the first portion

of its descent from the point of the Delta the Canopic

arm skirted the Libyan desert. At the city of Tere-

nuthis (Teranieh), a road, about t38 miles in length,

through the calcareous ridge of hills, connected it

with the Natron Lakes. On its right bank, below

this point, stood the ancient city of Sais, and a few

miles lower down, Naucratis. From its vicinity, at

6rst, to this city, the Canton of Aegypt, and after­

wards, by means of the canal which connected it

with the lake Mareotis on the one hand, and Alex-

andreia on the other, the Canopic branch retained

its importance; and its embankments were the care

of the government of Aegypt long after its rival

branches, the Sebennytic and Pelusian, were deserted

or had been suffered to flow uselessly into the

marshes. It is now represented in the upper por­

tion of its channel by the Rosttta branch of the Nile.

But they diverge from each other at lat. 31°, where

the elder arm turned off to the W., and discharged

itself into the Mediterranean near the present bay and

foreland of Aboukir. Its mouth is now covered by a

shallow lagoon, intersected by strips of sand and allu­

vial deposit, called the lake of Madieh. The Ca­

nopic arm of the Nile, although not actually the

western boundary of Aegypt, was, at least, in the

Pharaonic era, the limit of its commerce on the NW.

base of the Delta, since beyond it, until the building

of Alexandreia, there was no town of any importance.

The canals which were derived from the Nile for

the convenience of local intercourse and irrigation,

were very numerous; anil the prosperity of Aegypt,

especially on the Arabian side of the river, depended

in great measure upon their being kept in good re­

pair, and conveying to the arid waste a sufficient

supply of water. Hence the condition of the canals

was almost synonymous with the good or bad admi­

nistration of Aegypt; and we 6nd that among the

first cares of Augustus, after adding this> kingdom to

his provinces, in B.C. 24, was to repair and rehabi­

litate the canals, which had fallen into decay under

the misrule of the later Ptolemies. (Suet. Avg. 18;

Dion. Ii. 68; Aurel. Vict. Epit. i. 5.) For national

commerce, however, there were only two of these

artificial channels upon n large scale between Syene

and the sea, (1.) The canal called, in different

ages, the river of Ptolemy (nroAe^atoj ttoto^Jf,

Diodor. i. 33; Plin. v. 29. s. 23), and the river of Tra­

jan (Tpaioi'bf Tora^idj, PtoL iv. 5. § 54). This had

been commenced by Pharaoh Necho II. (B.c.480),was

F F

