510 PADCS. PADUS.

where it separates from the main stream. Severn

smaller tributaries of the river in the highest part

of its course are noticed in the Tabula or by the

Geographer of Ravenna, which are nut mentioned by

any ancient author; but their names are tor the most

part corrupt and uncertain.

Though Bowing for the most part through a great

plain, the Pari us thus derives the great mass of ir.s

waters directly from two great mountain ranges, and

the consequence is that it is always a strong, rapid,

and turbid stream, and has been in all ages subject

to violent inundations. (\ irg. Georg. \. 481; Min.

I.e.) The wh«>le soil of the lower valley of the Po

is indeed a pure alluvial deposit, and may he con­

sidered, like the valley of the MisM.vdppi or the Delta

of the Nile, as formed by the gradual accumulation

of mud, sand, and gravel, brought down by the river

itself and its tributary streams. But this process

was for the most part long anterior to the historical

period; and there can he no doubt that this portion

of Italy had already acquired very much its present

character and configuration as early as the( time of

the first Etruscan settlements. The valley of the

Pad us, as well as the river itself, are well described

by Poly bins (the earliest extant author in whom the

Roman name of Pad us is found), as well as at a later

period by Strabo and Pliny. (Pol. ii. 16; Strab. iv.

pp. 203, 204. v. p. 21*2; PI in. hi. 16. s. 20.) Con­

siderable changes have, however, taken place in the

lower part of its (nurse, near the Adriatic sea. Here

the river forms a kind of great delta, analogous in

many respects to that of the Nile; and the pheno­

menon is complicated, as in that case, by the existence

of great lagunes bordering the coast of the Adriatic,

which are bounded by narrow strips or bars of sand,

separating them from the sea. though leaving open

occasional channels of communication, so that the

lagunes are always salt and affected by the tides,

which are more sensible in this part of the Adriatic

than in the Mediterranean. (Strab. v. p. 212.) These

lagunes, which are well described by Strabo, extended

in his time from Ravenna toAltinum, both of which

cities stood in the lagunes or marshes, and wen-

built on piles, in the same manner as the modern

Venice. But the whole of these could not be fairly

considered as belonging to the Delta of the Pad us;

the more northerly being formed at the mouths of

other rivers, the Athesis, Meduacus, &c, which had

no direct or natural communication with the great

river. They all, however, communicated with the

Padus, and with one another, by channels or canals

more or less artificial: and as this was already the

case in the time of Pliny, that author distinctly

reckons the mouths of the Padus to extend from

Ravenna to Altinuin. (Plin. /. c.) Prom the earliest

period that this tract was occupied by a settled

people, the necessity must have been felt of embank­

ing the various arms and channels of the river, for

protection against inundation, as well as of con­

structing artificial cuts and channels, both for car­

rying off its superfluous waters and for purposes of

Communication. The earliest works of this kind are

ascribed to the Etruscans (Plin. /.»'.), and from that

time to the present day, they have been carried on

with occasional interruptions, lint in addition to

these artificial changes, the river has from lime to

lime burst its hanks and forced for itself new chan­

nels, or diverted the mass of its waters into those

which were previously unimportant. The most re­

markable of these changes which is recorded with

certainty, took place in 1152, when the main stream

of the Po, which then flowed S, of Ferrari, sud­

denly changed its course, and bos ever *inc? fl

about .'3 miles N. of that city. Hence it i* prir*

that all the principal modern mom lis of tbc K,tm

the Po fit Gi.'i'o to the Po di Ltiantt, were UiiLu=a

times comparatively inconsiderable.

Polybius (ii. 16) describes the Padua ashing

only two principal mouths, which separated ill

place called Trigaboli (the site ol which run* '«

• determined); the one of these is called by him IWj

(naScfo), and the other, which was the pr.'jnM

channel, and the one commonly navigated, 1*

Olana or Ilohma ("OXava). This last is in aL [?s

babihty the channel >tilt called/V di FoJrnMM

until the great inundation of 1152, above nyun

was still the principal mouth of the Po. Thetfii

is probably tiie southernm«fet branch of tie nfl

which separates from the preceding at/Vrrariu

is carried at the present day by a vh<r\\r ariiid

channel into the sea at Prwwrot from *he><

derives the name of Po di Primary. It* pre*

mouth is about 15 miles N. of Ravenna; bat it

that in the days of Pliny, and probably in tta*

Polybius also, it discharged itself into tha

which then surrounded Ravenna on all sides, i'li

terms it Padusa, but gives it also the oamtoffl

Augusta, from its course having been artiffli

regulated, and perhaps altered, by that

(Plin. iii. 16. s. 20.) The same author ginal

detailed enumeration of the mouths of the i'a»;a

they existed in his day, but from the caasfl

change already adverted to. it is very d fixu)t,il

impossible, to identify them with certainty.

They were, according to him: 1. the I'At-rsJ

Fossa Augusta, which (he adds) was prrrs

called Messanieus: this lias now wholly cat*

exist. 2. The Portus Vatrexi, evidently am

its name from being the mouth of the nvsr

l trenus, which flowed from Furum Cornelii, :«

the Po di Primaro is at the present day c*-«

mouth of the Reno. This was also known a

Spineticum Ostium, from the once celebrated c

Spina, which was situated on its banks [Sfi

It was probably the same with the modern i

Primaro. 3. Ostium Capraslae. 4. Saris.'

lane, previously called Olane: this is eridnil

[ Olana of Polybius, and the modern Po a* ^

the two preceding cannot be identified, b-at

have been openings communicating with tisr

lagunes of Comacchto. 6. The Carbonari, p

the PodiGoro. 7. The Fossio Phihstina.whit*

to have been an artificial canal, conveying tbtl

of the Tartarus, still called Tartaro, to U

This cannot be identified, the changes of thr 1

of the river in this part being too cor*^aer*i.e

whole of the present delta, formed by Vat

mouths of the Po (from the Po di G<**

Po di Lei ante), must have l»een formed

great change of 1152; its progress for

tunes back can be accurately traced; and «<

that it has advanced not le=ss than 9 miles *

more than two centuries and a half, and at '*

miles since the 12th century. Bevo&d ti

delta belongs rather to the A di<jc, and n»o« a

streams than to the Po; the next muoth bw

of the main stream of the Adior itstlt. a

beyond it the Porto di BrxmdoJo (the Br

Portus of Pliny), which at the present day

mouth of the Brenta.*

* Much curious information concerning tin

