THRACIA. TURACIA. 1179

0 protect it, as be supposes, from the severity

(ibe climate; by which also he accounts for the

uluvalion, in some parts of the country, of the

ribemm trtmettrr sod bimrjtrr, no called because

iime varieties were reaped in the third and second

vc'.h nspectively after tiiej were sown. Corn was

joined from Thrace, and especially from the Cher-

woj to Athens (Theoph. de Plantu, viii. 4; Lys.

• DwfiL p. 902), and to Rome (Plin.L c). Millet

rai cultivated in some parts of Thrace; for Xeno-

ino (Anab. vii. 5. § 12) states that on the march to

•liinfiiessua, Seathes and his allies traversed the

omtry of the " millet-eating Thracians " (cf. Strab.

n p. 315.) The less important vegetable produc-

•c< of Thrace may be briefly mentioned: a species

t eater-chestnut (tribubU) grew in the Strymon,

at leaves of which were used by the people who

sal oa its banks to fatten their horses, while

1 iu outs they made a very sweet kind of bread.

Pirn. in. 58, xzii. 12.) Roses (Rota cetUifolia)

t*w wild on the i'angaens, and were successfully

raplanted by the natives (Id. xxi. 10). The

amntaios, in general, abounded in wild-thyme and

>;roai nf mint (Id. xix. 55). A sort of morel or

•oirw (Hon) waa found in Thrace (Id. xix. 12;

uhen. ii. p. 62), and a styptic plant (itchaemon),

'tjch was said to stop bleeding from even di-

slsj blood-vessels. (Theoph. de Plant. IX. IS; Plin.

XV. 45.) Several varieties of ivy grew in the

wstry, and wen sacred to Dionysus. (Theoph. de

W iiL 16; Plin. xvL 62.) Herodotus (iv. 74)

*«* that the Scythians had hemp both wild and  
ilMxted; and as he proceeds to say that the Thra-

«as inade clothing of it, we may fairly infer that

pre* in Thrace also. "The Athenians imported

ail limber chiefly from the country about the

irymos, for the Thracian hills abounded in oak and

r-trsae.* (Niebuhr, Led. Ane. Hut. i. p. 292,

if. tram.). M. Viquesnel states that the Strandj a-

eye is covered with forests of oak (p. 314), and

aS in some parts of the district of Ruudope tobacco

a*> cultivated (p. 320).

Anwi^ the animals of Thrace, white horses are

T—tadly mentioned. The famous steeds of Rhesus

b* "whiter than snow." (Horn. 1L x. 437; Eu-

; fiaes. 304.) When Xerxes reached the hanks of

w Strymon in his onward march, the magi sacri-

"I "hite horses (Herod, vii. 113), which were

■t'uWy Thracian, for the same reason, whatever

at waa, that the human victims spoken of in the

it eliapter were the children of natives. Xeno-

wr, Ntatea that, during a banquet given by Scuthes,

rhraeian entered, leading a white horse, which he

f^nted to his prince, with an encomium on its

etaeaa (.InnA. vii. 3. § 26). Virgil speaks of Tbra-

■ bora with white spots (A en. v. 565, ix. 49).

>r>es were no donbt plentiful in Thrace: Homer

I xiv. 227) calls the Thracians IxwowiiAoi; and

valry always formed a large part of their armies.

>as Tboeydides (ii. 98) estimates the number of

nemen in the army with which Sitalcea invaded

seedonia at about 50,000. One of the twelve

Mrs of Hercules was to bring to Mycenae the

mc* mares of Diomedes, king of the Uistones in

ir»*-e. who fed them with human flesh. (Or. Met.

■ 194.) Herodotus (vii. 126) states that lions

re fomnd throughout the country bounded on the

. by the Achelous and on the K. by the Nestus;

tr.rntent which is repeated by Aristotle (//. A. vi.

. viii. 28); so that the part of Thrace between

■ Strymou and the Nestus must have been in­

fested, at least in early times, by those formidable

animals. Herodotus says that they attacked the

baggage-camels of Xerxes during the march of his

army from Acanthus to Therme (vii. 125). Cattle,

both great and small, were abundant, and seem to

have constituted the chief wealth of a people who,

like most barbarians, considered agriculture a base

occupation. (Herud. v. 6.) The fertile valleys were

well adapted for oxen, and the thyme-covered hills

for sheep; and it is clear, from several passages in

Xenophon, that even the wildest Thracian tribes

were rich in this kind of wealth. ( A nab. vii. 3. § 48,

7. § 53.) Aristotle informs us that the Thracians

had a peculiar method of fattening swine (//. A.

viii. 6). He attributes the sinailni'.ss of their asses

to the coldness of the climate (/6. 28). Cranes are

often mentioned as belonging to Thrace. (Virg.

Georg. i. 120; Ov. A. A. iii. 182; Juv. xiii. 167.)

Aristotle says that an aquatic bird of the pelican

kind (»i*«cu-ii) migrates from the Strymon to

the Istcr (//. A. viii. 11); and that the people in

some marshy districts of Thrace were assisted in

catching water-fowl by hawks; which do not seem

to have been trained for the purpose, but, though

wild, to have been induced by a share of the game,

to second the proceedings of their human associates

(lb. ix. 36). Eels were caught at certain seasons in

the Strymon (lb. viii. 2, ad fin.). The tunny fishery

was a source of great wealth to Byzantium. (Strab.

vii. p, 320.)

The principal mineral productions of Thrace were

gold and silver, most of which came from the moun­

tainous district between the Strymon and the Nestus.

There, at the southern extremity of the Pangaeus,

was situated Crenides, founded by the Thasians,

and afterwards called Philippi, in a hill near which,

named the hill of Dionysus (Appian, B. C. iv.

106), were the most productive gold mines of

Thrace, to get possession of which was Philip's prin­

cipal object in annexing the district in question to

his dominions. He is said to have derived from the

mines an annual income of 1000 talents. (Diod.

xvi 8 ; cf. Strab. vii. p. 323.) * Strabo (xiv. p.

680) says that the wealth of Cadmus came from the

mines of the Pangaeus; and Pliny refers to the same

tradition when he states (vii. 57) that according to

some authorities, the Pangaeus was the place where

Cadmus first discovered gold-mines, and the art nf

melting their produce (conflaturti). Herodotus (vii.

112) mentions silver, as well as gold, mines in the

Pangaeus, which in his time were in the possession of

the native tribes called Pieres, Olomanti, and Satrae.

He states also (vi. 46) that the Thasians had gold

mines at Scapte Hyle, near Abdera, from which they

derived an (annual) revenue of about 80 talents; and

that a part of the revenues of Peisistratus came from

the Strymon, by which the minea on its banks are

probably meant (i. 64). (See also, ix. 75; Eurip.

Hhe*. 921; Strabo (or rather his epitomiser), vii, p.

331.) According to Pliny (xxxiii. 21) gold waa

found in the sands of the Hebrus ; and this is con­

firmed by Paul Lucas (/. c), and by Viquesnel, who

states (p. 204) that in rainy years the affluents of

that river arc frequented by gold-finders, who wash

the sands which contain gold in grains (estpaillettes).

Thucrdides was interested in g»ld mines and works

near Ainphipolis, as he himself informs us (iv. 105).

Of the other minerals of Thrace we may mention the

* On these mines, see Niebuhr, Led. Ethnog.  
and Gtog. i. pp. 285, 295, Eng. trans.

