VG JERUSALEM. JEUUSALEM.

on the sloping side of a hill, and the streets were

furnished with raised pavements, along which some

of the passengers walked on high, while others kept

the lower path, —a precaution adopted to secure

those who were purified from the pollution which

contact with anything unclean could have occa­

sioned The place, too, was well adapted for

mercantile pursuits, and abounded in artificers of

various crafts. Its market was supplied with spicery,

gold, and precious stones, by the Arabs, in whose

neighbouring mountains there had formerly been

mines of copper and iron, but the works had been

abandoned during the Persian domination, in conse­

quence of a representation to the government that

they must prove ruinously expensive to the country.

It was also richly furnished with all such articles

as are imported by sea, since it had commodious

harbours — as A.*calon, .Toppa, Gaza, and Ptolcmais,

from none of which it was far distant." (Aristeas,

op, GaUandii Bihliotk. Vet. Pat. torn. iL pp. 805,

fee.) The truthfulness of this description is not

affected by the authorship; there is abundance of

evidence, internal and external, to prove that it was

written by one who had actually vi-itcd the Jewish

capital daring the times of the Ptolemies (<ir.

B.c. 250).

The Seleucidae of Asia were not behind tbe Pto­

lemies in their favours to the Jews; and the peace

and prosperity of the city suffered no material dimi­

nution, while it was handed about as a marriage

dowry, or by the chances of war, between the rivals,

until internal factions subjected it to the dominion

of Antiochua Kpiphanea, whose tyranny crushed for

a time the civil and ecclesiastical polity of the

nation (h, c. 175). The Temple was stripped of its

costly sacred vessels, the palaces burned, tbe city

walls demolished, and an idol-altar raised on the

very altar of the Temple, on which daily sacrifices of

swine were offered. This tyranny resulted in a

vigorous national revolution, which secured to the

Jews a greater amount of independence than they

had enjoyed subsequently to the captivity. This

continued, under the Asmonean princes, until the con­

quest of the country by the K<unans: from which

time, though nominally subject to a native prince,

it was virtually a mere dependency, and little more

than a province, of the Roman empire. Once again

before this the city waa recaptured by Antiochua

Sidetes, during the reign of John Hyrcanus (cir.

135), when tbe city walls, which had been restored

by Judas, were again levelled with the ground.

4. The capture of the city by Pompey is

recorded by Strabo, and was the first considerable

event that fixed the attention of the classical writers

on the city (n.c. 63). He ascribes the intervention

of Pompey to the disputes of the brothers Hyrcanus

and Aristobulua, the sons of Alexander Jannaeus,

who firat assumed regal power. He htates that the

conqueror levelled the fortifications when he had

taken the city, which he did by filling up an enor­

mous fosse which defended the Temple on the north

fide. The particulars of tbe siege are more fully

given by Joscphus, who stales that Pompey entered

the Holy of Holies, bnt abstained from the sacred

treasures of the Temple, which were plundered by

Crassus on his way to Psrthia (a. c. 54). The

straggle far power between Antigonus, the son of

Aristobalus, and Herod, the son of Antipater, led to

the Racking of the city by the Parthian*, whose aid

had been nought by the former (». c. 40). Herod,

having leen appointed king by the senate, only

secured possession of his capital after a long siege,

in which he waa assisted by Sosius, Antonys lieu­

tenant, and the Roman legionaries. Mention has

been already made of the palace in the Upper City

and the fortress Antonia, erected, or enlarged anil

beautified, by Herod. He also undertook to restore

the Temple to a state of magnificence that should

rival the glory of Solomon's ; and a particular de­

scription is given of this work by the Jewish his-

torian {Ant. xv. 11.) The erection of a theatre and

circus, and the institution of quinquennial games in

honour of the emperor, went far to conform his city

to a pagan capital. On the death of Herod and the

banishment of his son Archelaus.Judaea was reduced

to a Roman province, within the praefectnre of Syria,

and subject to a subordinate governor, to whom was

intrusted the power of life and death. His ordinary

residence at Jerusalem was the fortress Antonia;

bnt Cacsarea now shared with Jerusalem tlie dig­

nity of a metropolis. Coponius was the first procu­

rator (a. i>. 7), under the praefect Cyrenius. The

only permanent monument left by the procurators

is the aqueduct of Pontius Pilate (a. d. 26—36),

constructed with the sacred Corban, which be seized

for that purpose. This aqneduct still exist*, and

conveys the water from tlie Pads of Solon urn to the

Mask at Jerusalem (ffotjf City, vol. ii. pp. 498—501).

The particulars of the siege by Titus, so fully de­

tailed by Josephus, can only be briefly alluded to.

It occupied nearly 100,000 men little short of

five months, having been commenced on the 14th

of Xauthicus (April), and terminated with the cap­

ture and conflagration of tho Upper City on the

6th of Gorpeius (September). This is to be ac­

counted for by the fact that, not only did each of

the three walls, but also the Portress and Temple,

require to be taken in detail, so that the operations

involved five distinct sieges. The generals camp

was established close to the Psephine Tower, with

one legion, the twelfth; the tenth was encamped

near the summit of Mount Olivet; the fifth oppo­

site to the Hippie Tower, two stadia distant fn*n

it. The first assault waa made apparently between

the towers Hippkus and Pscphinus, and tlie

outer wall was carried on the fifteenth day of tbe

the siege. This new wall of Agrippa was im­

mediately demolished, and Titus encamped within

the New City, on th« traditional camping-ground of

the Assyrians. Five days later, the second wall

was carried at its northern quarter, but the Romans

were repulsed, and only recaptured it after a stoat

resistance uf three days. Four banks were then

raised,—two against Antonia, and two agaimt the

northern wall of the Upper City. After seventeen

days of inces.-ant toil the Komans discovered that

their banks had been undermined, and their engine*

were destroyed by fire. It was then resolved to

surround tlie city with a wall, so as to farm a

complete blockade. The line of circumralbhon,

39 furlongs in circuit, with thirteen redoubts eooal

to an additional 10 furlongs, was completed in three

days. Four fresh banks were rained in twenty-one

days, and tlie Antonia was carried two months after

the occupation of the Lower City. Another month

elapsed before they eonld succeed in gaining the

Inner Sanctuary, when tlie Temple was accidentally

fired by the Human soldiers. The Upper City still

held out. Two banks were next rained agsin»t its

eastern wall over again*! the Temple. This occu­

pied eighteen day*; and the 1'pper City was at

length carried, a month after the Inner Sanctuary.

