NUMIDIA NOVA. 451 NURSIA

antra, may of whom were bribed by Jugurtba,

ml ccnunissicoers, who divided the kingdom in

kt!i a muwr that Jo;nrtha obtained tbe most

tariike and most productive portion of it New

.:ia.Taa broke out between the rival princes, when

Jiinirthi besieged Adherbal in Cirta, and, after

mioaiinr list to surrender, put him to a cruel

'>i.fi. n'ar was declared against Jugurtba by

I-*, which, after being carried on with varying

■-.,rtsi,was finished by his capture and death in

i c 106. Tbe kingdom was given to Hiempsal

11. vbe vu succeeded by his son Juba I., who in

lit crril nrt allied himself to the Pompeuros. On

all 0 Jjio 1., H. c. 46. Numidia was made

i Lean province by Julius Caesar, who put it in

tV bands of Sallust, the historian. A. D. 39, Cali-

rsJa rbaared the government of the province, giving

iwarently, co-ordinate powers to the proconsul and

lb kraloi [See the article Africa, Vol. I. p. 70,

»in» the arrangements are fully de-cribed.] The

•tuna Aug. pr.pr.Numidiae"(Orelli. Inter. 3672)

^•jJ at Cilia, the capital of the old Numidian

'■o, void), aince the time of Augustus, had ac­

tual lie - jus colonise." Besides Cirta, there

vra nan other " coloniae," of which the following

w-t art known:—Sicca ; Tiiaml'CAIiis; Aphro-

Kutii; Caitva; Tabraca; Tibioa; Tttri-

Miarca; Tdsi'kkica; Theveste; Medacra;

Ajuddu i Smrrru; Kdsicade; Hippo Re-

•Wti MtLani; Lambaesa; Thelepte Lares.

b i-u Begia was a * liberum oppidum." The

of towns must have been considerable, as,

to the "Notitia," Numidia had in the

In r-atary 123 episcopal sees. (Marquardt. in

IWa Handback der Sum. Alt. pt iii. p. 229.)

^t tie Roman occupation of the country, that

r*-' * according to their usual plan, drove several

r»£i through it Numerous remains of Roman

•a* aid stations, which were of two kinds, those

'-a termed the roads, and others which

I"**"! the estates at some distance from them,

<p t'Ct remaining (London Gtog. Journ. vol.

**- P- H); and such was their excellent ar-  
■**"*efil that, at first, one legion,(* 111a Aug.,"

■ eieA afterwards a second was added, " Macri-

*» kbeiitra " (Tac. Hint, i. 11), served to keep the  
AHw provinces secure from the incursions of the

*-*^b tribes. The long peace which Africa en-  
iPtaal the flourishing corn trade it carried on,

a»i ncierted the wild Numidian tribes into peace-

* feasts, and had opened a great field for Chris-  
taenia. In the fourth century, Numidia was

■ rieses seat of the Donatist schism. Tho ra-

af the Circumcellions contributed to that

which was finally consummated by the

Justinian sent forth his troops,

a j* of putting down the Arians, more than

new provinces to the empire The work

; the Vandals were exterminated,

sill the temporary rule of Constantinople,

-■aura population of Africa reappeared. The  
"^>*1 victory of the cross, as it appeared to

rtscaUm, prepared the way for the victory of

'•vvtt a century afterwards. [E. B. J.]

»7 HIDIA XOVA. [As-rica, Vol. 1. p. 71, a.]

S'HIOICUS SINUS. [Numidia.]

JVMISTRO {Kmnlarpvy, Ptol.; No/Jo-roton

i-li.. Xsmestramis), a town of Lucania, ap-

Qear the frontiers of Apulia, near which a

*ao fought between Hannibal and Marcellus,  
tc no, without any decisive result (Liv. xxvii.

2; Plut Marc. 24). From the narrative of Livy,

which is copied by Plutarch, it is clear that Nu­

mistro was situated in the northern part of Lucania,

as Marcellus marched out of Samnium thither, and

Hannibal after the battle drew oft' his forces, and

withdrew towards Apulia, but was overtaken by

Marcellus near Venusia. Pliny also enumerates the

Numestrani (evidently the same people) among the

municipal towns of Lucania, and places them in the

neighbourhood of the Volcentani. Hence it is cer­

tainly a mistake on the part of Ptolemy that ho

transfers Numistro to the interior of Brutlium, un­

less there were two towns of the name, which is

scarcely probable. Cluverius, however, follows Pto­

lemy, and identifies Numistro with Niaistro in Ca­

labria, hut this is certainly erroneous (Plin. iii. 11.

s. 15; Ptol. iii. 1. § 74; Cluver Hal. p. 1319). The

site conjecturslly assigned to it by Romanelli, near

the modem Mwo, about 20 miles N\V. from Potenza.

is plausible enough, and agrees well with Pliny'a

statement that it was united for municipal purposes

with Volceii (Buccino), which is about 12 miles dis­

tant from Mwo (Romanelli, vol. i. p. 434). Some

ancient remains and inscriptions have been found on

the spot. [E. H. B.]

NURA. [Baleares, p. 374, a.]

NU'RSIA (NooofTi'o: Eth. Nursinus: Norcia),

a city of the Sabines, situated in the upper part of

the valley of the Nar, at the foot of the lofty group

of the Apennines, now known as the Monti ddln

Sibilla. The coldness of its climate, resulting from

its position in the midst of high mountains, is cele­

brated by Virgil and Silins Italicus. (Virg. Aen.

vii. 716; StL Ital. viii. 417.) The first mention of

it in history is in the Second Punic War (B.C. 205).

when it was one of the cities which came forward

with volunteers for the armaments of Scipio. (Liv.

xxviii. 45.) As on this occasion the only three

cities of the Sabines mentioned by name are Nnrsin,

Reate, and Amiternum, it is probable that Nnraia

was, as well as the other two, one of the most con­

siderable places among the Sabines. It was a

municipal town under the Roman government (Orel!.

Inner. 3966; Plin. iii. 12. s. 17; Ptol. iii. 1 § 55),

and we learn that its inhabitants were punisben by

Octavian for their zealous adherence to the republican

party, and the support they afforded to L. Antonius

in the Pcrusian War. (Suet Avg. 12; Dion Cass,

xlviii. 13.) It was the birthplace of Vespasia Polio,

the mother of the emperor Vespasian; and the

monuments of her family existed in the time of

Suetonius at a place called Vespasiae, 6 miles from

Nursia on tho road to Spoletium. (Suet. Pets. I.)

The u ager Nursinus" is mentioned more than once

in the Liber Coloniarum (pp. 227, 257), but it does

not appear that it ever received a regular colony.

We leam from Columella and Pliny that it was

celebrated for its turnips, which are also alluded to

by Martial (Colnm. x. 421; Plin. xviii. 13. s. 34;

Martial, xiii. 20.) From its secluded position Nursia

is not mentioned in the Itineraries, but there is no

doubt that it continued to exist throughout tbe

period of the Roman Empire. It became an episcopal

see at an early period, and is celebrated in ecclesias­

tical history as tho birthplace of St. Benedict, tho

founder of the first great monastic order.

It is said that remains of the ancient walls still

exist at Norcia, in the same massive polygonal stylo

as those near Reate and Amiternum (Petit-Radel,

Ann. d. Inst Arch. 1829, p. 51), but they have never

been described in detail. [E. H. B.]

G O 4

