NARDINIUM. NARO. 399

k did also to Massalla. (Diod. v. 38.) There was

U Narbo a great variety of dress and of people, who

were attracted by the commercial advantages of the

eity. It was adorned with public buildings, after

the fashion of Roman towns. (Martial, viii. 72;

Anson, ffarbo; Sid™. Apollin. Cam. 28.) A

temple of Parian marble, probably some poetical ex­

aggeration, is spoken of by Ansonius: and Sidonius

enumerates, in half a dozen miserable lines, the

glories of ancient Narbomt, its gates, porticoes,

forum, theatre, and other things. He speaks of a

mint, and a bridge over the Atax. The coast of

Karbonme was and is famed for oysters.

Not a single Roman monument is standing at

Xarbonme, but the sites of many buildings are ascer­

tained. Numerous architectural fragments, friezes,

bas-reliefs, tombstones, and inscriptions, still remain.

Some inscriptions are or were preserved in the

courts and on the great staircase of the episcopal

palace. There is a museum of antiquities at Nar-

bame, which contains fragments of mosaic, busts,

beads, cinerary urns, and a great number of inscrip­

tions. [G. L.]

NARDINIUM (Nopjfiw, Ptol. ii. 6. § 34), a

town of the Saelini, a tribe of the Astures, in

Hispania Tarraeonensis, probably near I'illalpando

on the Ezh. (Sestini, p. 172.)

NARISCI, a German tribe of the Suevi, occupy­

ing the country in the west of the Gabrcta Silva,

and east of the Hennunduri. They extended in the

north as far as the Sudeti Montes, and in the south

m far as the Danube. In the reign of M. Aurclius,

3000 of them emigrated southward into the Roman

province. (Dion Cass. lxxi. 21, where they are

called NapiirTal.) After the Marcomnnnian war,

they completely disappear from history, and the

country once occupied by them is inhabited, in the

Peuting. Table, by a tribe called Armalsusi. (Tac.

Grrm. 42; Jul. 'Capitol. M. Ant. 22^ Ptolemy

(ii. 11. § 23) calls them Varisti (Ouapio-rof), which

is possibly the more genuine form of the name, since

in the middle ages a portion of the country once in­

habited by them bore the name of Provincia Va-

n*Mrum. [L. S.J

S.VRXIA (Naprh, Strab., Ptol.: Elk. Narnicnsis:

Aorm), one of the most important cities of Umbria,

situated on the left bank of the river Nar, about 8

miles above its confluence with the Tiber. It was on

the line of the Via Flaminia, by which it was distant

56 miles from Rome. (Itin. Ant. p. 125; /fin. Ilier.

p. 613; Westphal, Rdm. A'amp. p. 145.) It appears

to have been an ancient and important city of the

Cmbrians, and previous to the Roman conquest bore

the narneof Neqlinum. (Plin. iii. 14. s. 19; Liv. x.

9: Stepb. Byi. writes the name Nnitoilia.) In B. c.

300, it was besieged by the Roman consul Appu-

leius; but its natural strength enabled it to defy his

arm*, and the siege was protracted till the next year,

when it was at length surprised and taken by the

consul M. Fulvius, B. c. 299. (Liv. x. 9, 10.)'pul-

vim wis in consequence honoured with a triumph

"d> Sanmitibus Nequinatibusque" (F<ut.Capit.')\ and

the Roman senate determined to secure their new

conquests by sending thither a colony, which assumed

the name of Namia from its position on the banks

of the Sir. (Liv. x. 10.) It is strange that all men­

tion of this colony is omitted by Velleius Paterculns;

bat its name again occurs in Livy, in the list of the

thin; Latin colonies during the Second Punio War.

On that occasion (b. c 209), it was one of those

which professed themselves exhausted and unable

any longer to bear the burdens of the war; for which

it was subsequently punished by the imposition of a

doublecontingent and increased contribution in money.

(Liv. xxvii. 9; xxix. 15.) Yet the complaint seems,

in the case of Narnia at least, to have been well

founded; for a few years afterwards (b. c. 199), the

colonists again represented their depressed condition

to the senate, and obtained the appointment of tri­

umvirs, who recruited their numbers with a fresh

body of settlers. (Id. xxxii. 2.) During the Second

Punic War, Narnia was the point at which, in b. c.

207, an army was posted to oppose the threatened

advance of Hasdrubal upon Rome; and hence it was

some Narnian horsemen who were the first to bring

to the capital the tidings of the great victory at the

Metanrus. (Liv. xxvii. 43. 50.) These are the only

notices we find of Narnia under the republic, but it

seems to have risen into a flourishing municipal town,

and was one of the chief places in this part of Um­

bria. (Strab. v. p. 227; Plin. iii. 14. s. 19; Ptol. iii.

1. § 54.) It probably owed its prosperity to its posi­

tion on the great Flaminian highway, as well as to

the great fertility of the subjacent plain. In the civil

war between Vitellius and Vespasian, Narnia bore an

important part, having been occupied by the generals

of the former as a stronghold, where they hoped to

check the advance of the army of Vespasian; but

the increasing disaffection towards Vitellius caused

the troops at Namia to lay down their arms without

resistance. (Tac. Hist. iii. 58—63. 67, 78.) The

natural strength of Narnia, and its position as com­

manding the Flaminian Way, also rendered it a fort­

ress of the utmost importance during the Gothic wars ■

of Belisarins and Narses. (Procop. B. G. 1. 16, 17;

ii. 11; iv. 33.) It became an episcopal see at an

early period, and continued throughout the middle

ages to be a considerable town.

The position of Narnia on a lofty hill, precipitous

on more than one side, and half encircled by the

waters of the Nar, which wind through a deep and

picturesque wooded valley immediately below the

town, is alluded to by many ancient writers, and

described with great truthfulness and accuracy by

Clandian, as well as by the historian Procopius.

(Claudian, de VI. Cons. Hon. 515—519; Sil. It.il.

viii. 458 ; Martial, vii. 93; Procop. B. G. i. 17.)

It was across this ravine, as well as the river Nar

itself, that the Via Flaminia was carried by a bridge

constructed by Augustus, and which was considered

to surpass all other structures of the kind in bold­

ness and elevation. Its ruins are still regarded with

admiration by all travellers to Rome. It consisted

originally of three arches, built of massive blocks of

white marble; of these the one on the left bank is

still entire, and has a height of above sixty feet;

the other two have fallen in, apparently from tho

foundations of the central pier giving way; but all

the piers remain, and the imposing style of the

whole structure justifies the admiration which it

appears to have excited in ancient as well as modern

times. Martial alludes to the bridge of Namia as,

even in his day, the great pride of tho place.

(Procop. /. c.; Martial, vii. 93. 8; Cluvcr. Hal.

p. 636; Eustace's Italy, vol. i. p. 339.) The em­

peror Ncrva was a native of Narnia, though his

family would seem to have been of foreign extrac­

tion. (Vict. Epit. 11 ; Caes. 12.) [E. H. B.]

NARO (o Ndpu*, Ptol. ii. 16. § 5; Plin. iii. 26)

Nar, Pomp. Mela, ii. 3. § 13; Narenum, Geogr.

Rav. iv. 16: Narenta"), a river of Illyricum, which

Scylax (pp. 8, 9) describes as navigable from its

