OS 2 SIC1LIA.

the islam! in the autumn of n. c. 278. Fhintias

was at tills time dead, ami Ilicetas had not long

before been expelled from Syracuse. Pyrrhus there­

fore bad no Greek adversaries to contend with, and

was aide to turn all his efforts against the Car­

thaginians. His successes were at first rapid and

decisive : he wrested one town after another from

the dominion of Carthage, took Panormus, which

hud long been the metropolis of their Sicilian

possessions, and had never before fallen into the

hands of a Greek invader, and carried by assault

the strong fortresses of Krctc and Kryx: but he w:is

foiled in an attack on Lilybacum; jcalousifs and

dis>en>ions now aro.se between him and his Sicilian

allies, and after little more than two years he was

fain to return to Italy (n.c. 276), abandoning all

his projects upon Sicily (L>iod. Exc. llm-tch. XxiL

10. pp. 497—499).

Tiie departure of Pyrrhus left the Sicilian Greeks

without a leader, but Hieron, who was chusen general

by the Syracusans, Droved himself worthy of the

occasion. Meanwhile a new and formidable enemy

had arisen in the Mainertiues, a band of Campanian

mercenaries, who had possessed themselves by

treachery of the important city of Messana, and

from thence carried their arms over a considerable

part of Sicily, and conquered or plundered many of

its principal towns. Hieron waged war with them

for a considerable period, and at length obtained so

decisive a victory over them, in the immediate

neighbourhood of Messana, that the city itself must

have fallen, had it not been saved by the intervention

of the Carthaginian general Hannibal. Hieron was

now raised to the supreme power at Syracuse, and

even assumed the title of king, b. c 270. A few

yean after this we find him joining bis arms with

the Carthaginians, to effect the expulsion of the

Mamertines, an object which they would doubtless

have accomplished had not that people appealed to

the protection of Rome. The Roman?, who had

recently completed the conquest of Italy, gladly

seized the pretext for interfering in the affairs of

Sicily, and espoused the cause of the Mamertines.

Thus bngan tin* Y'wA Punic War, u. c. 264.

It is impossible here to relate in detail the events

of that long-protracted struggle, during which Sicily

became for twenty-three years the field of battle be­

tween the Romans and Carthaginians. Hieron, who

had found himself at the beginning engaged in ac­

tive hostilities with Rome, after sustaining several

defeats, and losing many of his subject towns, wisely

withdrew from the contest, and concluded in B. c.

263 a separate peace with Rome, by which he re­

tained possession in full sovereignty of Syracuse and

its territory, including the dependent towns of Acme,

Belarus, Netam, Megan, and Leootuu, together

with Tauromenium (L)iod. xxiii. F.xc. II. p. 502).

From tins time to the day of his death Hieron re­

mained the faithful ally of the Romans, and retained

the sovereign power at Syracuse undisturbed. In

the rest of S.cily all trace of independent action on

the part of the several Greek cities disappears:

Agrigentum was indeed the only oue of these cities

in the island which appears to have retained any

considerable importance: it was not taken by the

Roman consuls till after a long and obstinate siege,

B, c. 262, and was severely punished for its pro­

tracted resistance, tbe inhabitants being sold as slaves.

Agrigentum indeed at a later period fell again into

the hands of the Carthaginians, B.C. 255, but on

tbe other hand the Romans made themselves mas­

ters of Panormus, for i

Carthaginian dominior

thenceforth occupied b

and never again fell i

masters. For several;

the war, the pussessk

Sicily were couHned t<

cupied by Hanvilear Bi

fortified seaports of Li

former of which defied

mans, as it had previ<

The siege, or rather

continued for nearly te

of the Carthaginian I

Aegates, b. c 241, co

chase peace by the sur

possessions in Sicily.

The whole Uland wj

dition of a Romau pr<

the territory still gove;

but independent so%-ere

stituted was the first tl

(Cic. Verr. ii. 1): it

ment of a praetor, w

Rome (Appian, Sic 21

Second Punic War (i

pronius was at first »

to guard against an

Africa; but he was soo

in Italy, and for some

important part in the

ever, occurred in the

215), in consequence o!

the grand>on and sua

who abandoned the

Hieron had continue

long reign, and espou

Hieronymus indeed ws

the Carthaginian par

Hippocrates and Epi

ascendency, and Marc

haste to Sicily to put

was compelled to fonr

214. Rut so vigorous

him that he soon foui

the siege into a block*

of B.C. 212 that the c

Meanwhile the war hat

of Sicily: many cities

followed the example

alliance of Carthage,

exertions for their au]

Syracuse, the war was

ginian general Mutin

master of Agrigentum,

fare from thence, and i

whole island. It was

duced to desert the Ca

Agrigentum into the b

consul Laevinus was

cities to submission,

final conquest of Sicil

xxviL 5).

From this time the

as a Roman province,

most respects similar t

Rut its lot was anythi

great natural fertility,

ness in corn, caused it,

the utmost importance

cumstances seem to ha

