20 JERUSALEM. JERUSALEM.

promenade, though not necessarily connected with a

gymnasium, but perhaps rather with another palace

which occupied " this extremity of the Upper City"

for the name was given also to a terraced walk with

colonnades attached to Roman villas. (Vitruv. v. 11.)

(6) The House of the Asmonaeans was above the

Xystus, and was apparently occupied as a palace by

the Younger Agrippa; tor, when he addressed the

multitude assembled in the Xystus, he placed his

sister Berenice in the house of the Asmonaeans, that

she might be visible to them. (B. J. I. r.)

(7) The Causeway. At the Xystus we are told

a causeway (yitpvpd) joined the Temple to the Upper

City, and one of the Temple gates opened on to this

causeway. That the yt<f>vpa was a causeway and

not a bridge, is evident from the expression of Jo-

sephus in another passage, where he says that the

valley was interrupted or filled up, for the passage

(t?)S <p&payyos et* bioBov itK(tKnfjLfJ.4yT}s, Ant xv.

11. § 5.). As the Tyropoeon divided the Upper

from the Lower City, and the Temple Mount was

attached to the Lower, it is obvious that the Tyro­

poeon is the valley here mentioned. This earth-

wall or embankment, was the work of Solomon,

and is the only monument of that great king in

Jerusalem that can be certainly said to have escaped

the ravages of time; for it exists to the present day,

serving the same purpose to the Mahometans as

formerly to the Jews: the approach to the Mosk

enclosure from the Bazaars passes over this cause­

way, which is therefore the most frequented thorough­

fare in the city. (Williams, Hohj City, vol. ii.

pp. 392 397, and note, pp. 601 —607.)

It is highly probable that the Xystus was nothing

else than the wide promenade over this mound,

adorned with a covered cloister between the trees,

with which the Rabbinical traditions assure us that

Solomon's causeway was shaded. It is clear that

the north wall of the Upper City must have crossed

the valley by this causeway to the Gate ShaUechcth,

which is explained to mean the Gate of the Embank­

ment. (1 Chron. xxvi. 16.)

(8) The Council- Chamber (&ov\i], /3ooAf ktt;-

piov) is the next place mentioned on the northern

line of wall, as the point where it joined the western

portico of the Temple. And it is remarkable that

the corresponding office in the modem town occupies

the same site; the Mehkemeh, or Council-Chamber of

the Judicial Divan, being now found immediately

outside the Gate of the Chain, at the end of the

causeway, corresponding in position to the ShaUe­

chcth of the Scriptures.

We have now to trace the wall of the Upper City

in the opposite direction from the same point, vi/..

the Hippie Tower at the NW. angle. The points

noticed are comparatively few. *' It first ran south­

ward (i.e. with a western aspect), through a place

called Itethso, to the Gate of the Essenes; then,

turning E., it ran (with a southern aspect) above

the fountain of Siloam; thence it bent northward,

and ran (with an eastern asjiect) to the Pool of

Solomon, and extending as far as a place called

Ophla, was joined to the eastern cloister of the

Temple."

ii. On the West Front neither of the names which

occur are found nt;ain in the notices of the city: but

llethso may safely be assigned to the site of the

garden of the Armenian Convent, and the Gate of

the Esaenes may be fixed to a spot not verv far

from the SW. corner of the modern city, a little to

the W. of the Tomb of David, near which a re­

markable ridge seems still to indicate the fonnda

tions of the ancient city wall.

iii. Along the south face of the Upper City tin

old wall may still be traced, partly by searj>ed rocl

and partly by foundations of the ancient wall, whirl

have served as a quarry for the repairs of the neiuh

bourinc: buildings for many ages. Its course fron

this point to the Temple is very difficult to deter

mine, as the steep declivity to the Tyrop^-on woult

make it extremely inconvenient to carry the wall ii

a straight line, while, on the contrary, the abseno

of all notice of any deviation from a direct line in i

description in which the angles are uniformly noted

would seem to imply that there was no such deflec

tion in its course. As it is clear, however, that thi

Upper City was entirely encompassed with a wall o

its own, nowhere noticed by Jusephus, except so fa.

as it was coincident with the outer wall, it may t-

safely conjectured that this east wall of the Upi**

City followed the brow of the ridge from the south

east arii'le of the Hill Sion, along a line nearly ci>

incident with the aqueduct; while the main waH con

tinned its easterly course down the steep slope o

Sion, across the valley of the Tyropoeon, not fk

from its mouth,—a little above the Pool of Siloam,—

and then up the ridge Ophel, until it reached the

brow of the eastern valley. It may serve to coun

tenance this theory to observe, that in the accotra

of this wall in Nehemiah there is mention of " tbi

stairs that go down from the city of David," bj

which stairs also the procession went up when en

compassing the city wall. (iii. 15, xii. 37.)

iv. The further course of the old wall to thi

eastern cloister of the Temple is equally obscure, ai

the several points specified in the description are no

capable of identification by any other notices. The*

are the Pool of Solomon and a place called Ophla, ii

the description already cited, to which may be added

from an incidental notice, the Basilica of Grapte o

Monobazus. (/;../. v. 8. $ 1.)

The Pool of Solomon lias been sometimes iden

titled with the Fountain of the Virgin, from whicl

the Pool of Siloam is supplied, and sometime

with that very pool. Both solutions are tinsatis

factory, for Siloam would scarcely be mentioned i

second time in the same pa^sa^e under a not be

name, and the fountain in question cannot, with an

propriety, be called a pool.

The place called Ophla — in Scripture Opkel —

is commonly supped to Ik* the southern spur e

the Temple Mount, a narrow rocky ridge extendin

down to Siloam. But it is more certain that it i

used in a restricted sense in this passage, than thi

it is ever extended to the whole ridge. (S-e Hoi

City, vol. ii. p. 365, note 7.) It was apparently

lar_v fortified building, to the south of the Tempi*

connected with an outlying tower (AVAcw*. iii. *2'

28), and probably situated near the southern extrt

rm'ty of the present area of the Mosk of Omar. An

the massive angle of ancient masonry at the Sr

corner of the enclosure, " impending over the Valle

of Jehoshaphat, which here actually bends souti

west round the comer, having a depth of aboi:

130 feet," may possibly have belonged to the 11 oat

lying tower," as it presents that appearance wit hi

(//. C. vol. h. pp. 311, 317). H is clear, in any eas*

that the wall under consideration must have joinn

the eastern cloister of the Temple somewhere to tt

north of this an*:le, as the bend in the valley ind

cated by Dr. Robinson would have precluded U:

possibility of a junction at this angle.

