918 PARMATIA. SARMATIA.

data both a3 to the names by which the popula­

tions of the parts in quesion designate themselves,

as well as those by which they are designated by

their neighbours, there are no satisfactory identifica­

tions at all. There are some that we may arrive

at by a certain amount of assumption; but it is

doubtful whether this is legitimate. In the names,

for instance, beginning with sa- (Sa-boci, &c.) we

lr.ay see the Slavonic for trans; in those with po-

the Slavonic ad, — both of which are common in

the geographical terminology of the Russians, &c

But these are uncertain, as are the generality of

the other coincidences.

In Siberia, for instance, a Samoyed tribe is named

Motored: name for name, this may be Materi;

whether, however, it denote the same population is

another question.

Are the Sarmatiae of Ptolemy natural divisions?

Subject to an hyjiothesis, which will be just stated

in the present article, but which will be exhibited in

full in Scythia, the Sarmatiae of Ptolemy are ob­

jectionable, both for what it contains ami what it

omits. The whole of Asiatic Sarmatia is, more

or less, arbitrary. It seems to be a development

of the area of the llerodotean Sauromatae. In the

north it comprised Finn or Ugrian, in the south

Circassian and Georgian, populations. The Alauni

were Scythian, as were several other tribes. It is

therefore no ethnological term. Neither are its

boundaries natural, if we look at the physical con­

ditions of the country. It was defined npon varying

and different principles,—sometimes with a view to

physical, sometimes to ethnological, sometimes to

political geography. It contains more than a natural

Sarmatia.

On the other band, the Vistula was no ethnological

line of demarcation. The western half of Poland

was Sannatian, in respect to its climate, surface, and

the manners of its inhabitants. The Lygii, however,

having been made part of Gennania, remained so in

the eyes of Ptolemy. That the populations on each side

of the Lower Vistula, i. e. of West and East Prus­

sia, were the same, is certain; it is certain, at least,

that they were so at the beginning of the historical

period, and all inference leads us to hold that they

were so before. The Vistula, however, like the Rhine,

was a good natural boundary.

The Jazyges Metanastae were most probably Sar­

matian also. Pliny calls them Jazyges Sarmatae

(iv. 25); the name Metanastae being generally in­

terpreted removed. It is, however, quite as likely

to be some native adjunct misunderstood, and adapted

to the Greek language.

The other Jazyges (i. e. of the Maeotis) suggested

the doctrine of a migration. Yet, if the current in­

terpretation be right, there might be any amount of

Jazyges in any part of Sarmatia. It is the Slavonic

for language, and, by extension, for the people who

speak a language:—"a po Ocje rjeje, gde wteczet'

w Wolgu, jaztfk swoj Muroma, i Czeremisi swoj

ja2yk, e Mordwa swoj jazyk;"— translated, "On

the Oka river, where it falls into the Volga, a

particular people, the Muroma, and the Tsheremis,

a peculiar people, and the Mordwins, a peculiar

people." (Zeuss, s. v. Ostjitmen). Hence it lias at

least a Slavonic gloss. On the other hand, it has a

meaning in the Magyar language, where Jassag

— bowman, a fact which has induced many scholars

to believe that there were Magyars in Hungary before

the great Magyar invasion, indeed before the Hun.

lie this as it may, the district of the Jazyges Me-

tanastae is called the Jassag district il tlx

moment.

More than one of the Daciaa pnpsataoi ns

Sarmatian,—the difference between Dans, tat

of the Roman Province, and Sannatia. Ike t*

of an independent and hostile population,

merely political. Indeed, if we look to tbi

bution of the Sarmatae, their soath esstai

must have the part* about TonnL [Sac S*<

tab.] Here, however, they wen* intrant

KtuxoliXjy. — The doctrine a poo tha

merely stated in the present notice. It aafldsj

in the article on Scythia. It a totbeeflsftl

in its proper application, Sarmatim aaasl

many, or alt of the north-eastern nwmbm im

Slavonic family, proliably, with mow mesas

the Lithuanic, included.

History. — The early Sarmatian hstwra

thian as well [Scythia], and it boot sail

nonia becomes a Roman province that the

tribes become prominent in history, and,

the distribution of the several wars and

tween the several nations who our* und

neral denomination is obnenre. Id doiar.

is much that in a notice like the srsssat

eliminated. The relations of the Greeks at

Romans with Sarmatia were with Sryth*

Getae as well, the relations of the latter hi

the provincials of Pan nonia, with the

and Quadi, &c Both are neighbours to ■

of Jazyges.

The great Mithridatic Empire, or, St

the Mithridatic Confederacy, contained

eo nomine, descendants of the Herodotaat

matae. Members of this division it mast Si

whom the Marcus, the brother of Loam I

chastised and drove beyond the Daxtttf.

march through Moesia. Those, too, it w

whom the Cis-Panubian nations in raws

oftenest in contact,—Jazyges. Roxolani, Q

&c, who though (almost certainly) Sarsn

their ethnological affinities, are not, easaaa

matian, but, on the contrary, popnlait<aw m

or less of an independent history of nW

Thirdly, the Sarmatians, who, in conj

Getae, Daci, Moesians, Thracians. arc ■

been found in the districts tooxh of ttot

must he looked npon as intrusive and foraga

soil on which they are found.

On the other hand, it must be

the Sarmatae eo nomine fall into

divided from each other by the whole

Roman province of Dacia, the area rf* that

east being the parts between the Daaeas

Don, the area of those of the west boss; 1

between the Danube and The its. The i*J

the former are with the Scythians, Rassi

kings of Pontus, &c., over whom, atsMjv

M. Crass us triumphed. His actions, to*

well as those of M. Luc all us, so far as ti

against the Sarmatae, were only accwMtow

in the campaigns by which Moesa warn

The whole of the Trans-Dtanmbtaa 6s

Moesia, east of Viminiacnm. was funaW I

The point at which the Remans and Ss

would more especially come in contact

country about Sinnium, where the tawe |

of Panuonia, Illyricnm, and M>«su wDed.s

the pre-eminently Sarmatian districts ef

between the Danube and Theiss lay

pre-eminently Sarmatian as ufpnssjrl It

