OSCINEIUM.

OSISHL 499

•^bkttrnood of Bantia, on the borders of Apulia

ui Loeaaia. aad which refers tu the municipal

of that town; 2. the Cippus Abellanus, so

i baring been found at Abella in Cam-

pacua, and attaining a treaty fir agreement between

la* two neighbouring cities of Kola and Abella;

dill brume tablet recently discovered in the

f.-abavnoud of Agmone in northern Samnium,

r^."jcuBe a dedication of various sacred offerings.

1: j remarkable that these three monument*) have

in nearly the moat distant quarters of

territory. By the assistance of the nu-

i'TT inscriptions, we may fix pretty clearly

I within which the language was spoken.

Tary or hide, besides Campania and Samnium

b"5»r. tie land of the Hirpini and Frentani, and

tb» arthra part of Apulia. No inscriptions in

<J»u have been found in I.ncania (except imme-

'ea its borders) or Bruttium, though it is

! in both of these countries the Sabellian

introduced the Oscan language, or one

aWeh connected with it; and we are distinctly

|ti by Festos that the Bruttians spoke Greek and

(Feat p. 35, M.) We learn also with cer-

that Qui onhy the vernacular, but even the

of the Oscan language continued in

• l!aJy Ing alter the Roman conquest. Indeed

IU any, of the extant inscriptions date from an

The comic poet Titinius alludes to

1 s talrci still in common use in his time, about

. 17a (Fas*, a. p. Optcum, p. 189.) The coins

Marx by the Samitites and their allies during the

bl War (a. c. 90—88) bare Oacan inscriptions;

r 2 u ^vbah!* that, after the close of that contest

admission of the Italians to the

Latin became universal as the

kuvuage of Italy. Oscan, however, must

raK.-u.ee4 to be spoken, not only in the more

ir-r"""1 districts, but even in the towns,

least, until a much later period; as

inscriptions rudely scratched or

; cat th« walls, which from their hasty exe-

1 aad temporary character cannot be supposed

existed kJO£ before the destruction of the

>*.». 79.

siatj the remains of the Oscan language

Cmttr-ltalUchcn IHoUite, 4to. Leip-

Kl^nx*, Philologische Abhandlungen,

1 a39; and Donaldson, Varronianus,

L>

ace of the Oscans having any

rly ao called; but it was certainly

that the Romans derived the dramatic

■Ileal Atellanae, a kind of rude

lSi't bearing considerable resemblance to

of Falcinello, still so popular at

1 ia its neighbourhood. When these were

to Ro:ue they were naturally rendered

irxt though Slrabo is probably mistaken

of the Fabulae Atellanae of his day as

U Raw** in Oscan, it is very natural

La*"V were still so exhibited in Cam-

aaj as the Oacan language continued in

ar aa that country. (Strab. v. p. 233;

Ifca Fabolar Atellanae see Mommsen,

Lilt; Bernhardt, Bomische I.iieratur, p.

Ls lfank. afc FabtUU AteUank, Lips.

[E. H. B.]

_ JX, a name which appears in the Je-

■ kac x. the road from Vasatae (Bazas) to

■> [Coajajto; EtxaATES.] The order

of names is Vasatae, Tres Arbores, Oscineium, Sat'

tium or Sotium, and Elusa. Oscineium is marked at

the distance viii. from the two places between which

it lies. D'Anville finds on this road a place named

Esquies, which in name and position agrees pretty

well with the Oscineium of the Itin. [G. L.]

OSERIATES ('OfMp/aTf«), a tribe of Pannonia

Superior, dwelling on the banks of the river Dravus;

but nothing is known about them but their name.

(Ptol. ii. 15. § 2; Plin. iii. 28.) [L. S.]

OSI, a German tribe mentioned only by Tacitus

(Germ. 28, 43), as dwelling beyond the Quadi, in a

woody and mountainous country. But their national

customs, as well as their language, were those of the

Pannonians. They were, moreover, tributary to the

Quadi and Sarmatae. The exact districts they in­

habited cannot be determined, nor do we know

whether they had migrated into Germany from Pan­

nonia, or whether they were an ancient remnant of

Pannonians in those districts. [L. S.]

OSIANA, a town in the west of Cappadocia, be­

tween the river Halys and lake Tatta, on the road

from Ancyra to Caesarea (/'. Ant. p. 206). Ita

site must probably be looked for in the district of

Jwkup or Uryub. S.]

OS1SMI or OSISMII ( Oo-iV/nw), a Celtic people

who joined the Vcneti in the war against Caesar,

b. c. 56. (B. G. iii. 9.) There is nothing in

Caesar which shows their position further than this,

that they were in the peninsula of Bretagne.

Ptolemy (ii. 8. § 5) makes them extend as far

south as the Gobaeum headland, and he names Vor­

ganism as their chief city. [Gobaeum.] If wc

accept the authority of Meia, who says (iii. 6) that

the island Sena (&m) is opposite to the shores of

the Osismii, this will help us to determine tho

southern limit of the Osismii, and will confirm tho

conjecture of Gobaeum being the headland called

Hnz Pointe, which is opposite to the small island

•Sein, or as it is improperly called Isle des Saints; or

being somewhere near that headland. In another

passage (iii. 2) Mela makes the great bend of the

west coast of Gallia commence where the limits of

the Osismii end: "ab illis enim iterum ad septentri-

ones frons littorum respicit, pertinetque ad ultimos

Gallicarum gentium AIorino6." Pliny (iv. 18)

describes this great peninsula of Bretagne thus:

"Gallia Lugdunensis contains a considerable penin­

sula, which runs out into the ocean with a circuit of

625 miles, beginning from the border of the Osismii,

the neck being 125 miles in width: south of it are

the Nannetes." It is plain then that Pliny placed

the Osismii along the north coast of Bretagne,

and there is Mela's authority for placing them on tho

west coast of the peninsula. The neck of the penin­

sula which Pliny describes, may be determined by a

line drawn from the bay of St. Brieuc on the north

to Lorient on tho south, or rather to some of the

bays east of it, or Morbihan. it seems a fair con­

clusion, that tho Osismii occupied a large part of the

peninsula of Bretagne; or as Strabo (iv. p. 195) says:

"Next to the Veueti are the Osismii, whom Pytheas

calls Timii, who dwell in a peninsula which runs

out considerably into the ocean, but not so far as

Pytheas says and those who believe him." He does

net tell us bow far Pytheas said that the peninsula

ran out into the sea, but if we had Pytheas' words,

we might find that he knew something about it.

The conclusion ol D'Anville is justified by the ancient

authorities. He says: "It seems that it has been

agreed np to the present time to limit the territory

k k 2

