MEDULLUS. so? MEGALOPOLIS.

it»lf. (Gell, Top. of Rome, pp. 312, 319; Nibby,

Mtinrni, vol u. pp. 293, 327; Abeken, M. I.

p. 78.) [E. H. B.]

MEDULLUS (Flor. iv. 12; Mednllium, Ores. vi.

21), a mountain in Hispania Tarraconensis, rising

above the river Minius; perhaps the Sierra de Ma-

meda, npon the river Sil, a tributary of the Mino.

MEDUS (4 Mqios, Strab. iv. p. 729), a river of

ancient Persia, which, according to Strabo, after

taking its source in Media, flowed into the Araxes,

which waters the plain of Persepolis. Curtius,

however, in speaking of these rivers, makes the

Araxes, which, was the greater stream, flow into the

Medus, which was the less (v. 4. § 7). There can

be no doubt, however, that Strabo is more correct

than Curtius. The Medus is the small stream

(now called the Pidtain) which flows past the

remains of Pasargadae, Istakr. and Persepolis, and

falls into the Araxes (Kur or Bend-amir) a few

miles below the last ruins. The nnited stream of

the two rivers terminates in lake Bakhiegdn, about

40 miles from Persepolis. (Fergusson, Nmev. and

Penrp. p. 90.) [V.]

MEGABAKI (M«7afiaooi, Strab. xvii. pp. 786,

819; MtyiSaptoi, Ptol. iv. 7. § 30; Megabarri,

Plin. vL 30. ft. 35), a people of Aethiopia, near

Men*, also called Adibari according to some autho­

rities (Plin. /. e.), and possessing a town of Apollo.

Their name appears to survive in the tribe of the

Mekaberab near Schendg. (flitter, Krdkunde, vol. i.

p. 663; Forbiger, vol. ii. p. 811.)

MEGA'LIA. (Megaris.]

MEGALO'POLIS (i Mf/dAn mfAij or KtyaK6-

woAu: Etk. MryoAoiroAfrns: Smdnu), the "Great

City," one of the most recent of the Grecian cities,

and the later capital of Arcadia, was founded in B. c.

370. a few months after the battle of Leuctra, and

was finished in the course of three years. (Pans,

viii. 27. § 1; Diod. xv. 52, 62, 72.) Arcadia had

bwn previously divided into a number of independent

political communities; and it had always been the

object of Sparta to maintain them in their isolated

condition, that she might the more easily exercise su­

premacy over them. But after the fatal blow, which

the Spartans had received at the battle of Leuctra,

several of the leading Arcadians, supported by Epa-

minondas, who was the soul of toe undertaking,

resolved to found a new city, which should become

the capital of an Arcadian confederation. Ten oecists

were appointed to carry this resolution into effect,

of whom two were from Tegea, two from Mantineia.

two from Cleitor, two from the district of Maenalus,

and two from that of Parrhasia. The site, which

they chose, was an extensive plain upon the north­

west frontier of Laconia; and the city was built

upon the river Helisson, a tributary of the Alpheius.

Forty distinct Arcadian townships were either per­

suaded or compelled to contribute their inhabitants

to form the new state. (Paus. viii. 27; Diod. xv.

94.) The inhabitants were furnished from seven

states: 10 from Maenalus, 8 from the Parrhasii,

3 from Orchomenus, 4 from Cynuria, 6 from Eu-

tmk, 3 from Tripolis, and probably 6 (though

Paasania* mentions the names of only 5) from

AifYtii. The city was 50 stadia (more than

5 miles and a half) in circumference (Polyb. ix. 21);

while the territory assigned to it was more extensive

than that of any other Arcadian state, extending

northwards about 23 English miles from the city,

being branded on the east by the territories of

Tegea, Mantineia, Orchomenus. and Caphyae, and

on the west by those of Messene, Phigulia, and He-

raea. (On the foundation of Megalopolis, see Clin­

ton, Fait. Hell. vol. ii. p. 418; Thirlwall, Hut. of

Greece, vol. v. p. 85, seq.; Grote, Hist, of Greece

vol. x. p. 306, scq.)

Megalopolis was the place of meeting of the

Arcadian confederation which was now formed. The

council of the confederation was called the Ten

Thousand (of Mupioi), and consisted of representa­

tives of all the Arcadian states, except Orchomenus

and Heraea. The number must be regarded as an

indefinite one; and it is probable that all the citi­

zens of the separate states had the right of attending

the meetings. (Xen. Hell. vi. 5. § 6, vii. 1. § 38;

Diod. xv. 59; Paus. viii. 32. § 1; Dcm. de Pals.

Leg. p. 344.) A body of troops, called Epariti

('ETdorroi), was raised for the service of the confe­

deration; their number was 5000 (Xen. Hell. vii. 4.

§ 34, vii. 5. § 3; Diod. xi. 62, 67.) The new con­

federation succeeded for a time in giving a certain

degree of unity of sentiment and action to the Arca­

dians; but its influence gradually declined; and the

city of Megalopolis never attained that importance

which its founders had anticipated, and which had

caused it to be laid out on a scale too large for the

the population collected within its walls. (Polyb

ii. 55.)

Upon the decline of the Theban power, the Spar­

tans directed their attacks against Megalopolis; but

these were easily repelled; and upon the rise of the

Macedonian power the Megalopolitans formed a close

alliance with Philip, and subsequently with Alex­

ander, as their best security agaimt their formidable

neighbour. After the death of Alexander they

continued faithful to the Macedonian alliance, and

refused to join the other Greeks against Antipater.

In the contest between Polysperchon and Cassander,

Megalopolis espoused the side of the latter; in conse­

quence of which Polysperchon laid siege to the city

in b. c. 318. It was, however, bravely defended by

its inhabitants, under an officer named Damis; and

though Polysperchon succeeded in making a breach

in its walls, he was finally repulsed with loss. (Diod.

xviii. 70, 71.) We learn from Diodorus {I. c.) that

the territory of Megalopolis possessed at this time

15,000 men capable of bearing arms, which im­

plies a population of about 65,000 souls. After

this time Megalopolis was governed by tyrants, of

whom the first was Aristodemus, a Phigalian by

birth, who, on account of his good qualities, was

called XpTio-ro'i. During his reign the Spartans,

under their king Acrotatus, the son of Areus, and

grandson of Cleonymus II., attacked Megalopolis,

but were defeated, and Acrotatus was slain. (Paus.

viii. 27. § 11, who erroneously calls Acrotatus the

son of Cleonymus.) Two generations later Lydiades,

a native of Megalopolis, became tyrant of the city,

but he voluntarily resigned his power in n. c. 232,

and united Megalopolis to the Achaean League.

(Paus. viii. 27. § 12, seq.; Polyb. ii. 44.) In ii c.

222, Clcomencs HI. surprised Megalopolis; the

greater part of the inhabitants succeeded in making

their escape to Messene; but, after plundering the

city, he laid the greater part of it in ruins. (Pans,

viii. 27. § 15, seq.; Polyb. ii. 55; Plut. Philop. 5,

Cleom. 25.) Soon after the defeat of Cleomenes at

the battle of Sellasia (b. c. 221), the Megalopolitans

began to rebuild their city; but a dispute arose

among them respecting its size. One party wished

the compass of the walls to be contracted, that they

might be the more easily defended; and the other

x 2

