LCGEUS LACUS.

215 LUNA.

tliem would certainly not be conclusive against

LfkUa. lint remains have been dug up in the

in^irlibourhood of Leiden, and an inscription of the

time of Septimius Severus. (Ukcrt, Galium, p.

534.) [G. L.] •

LU'GEUS LACUS (AoiVyeo' Jaos), a lake in

the kind of the lapodes in Illyricum, now Lake

Zirbtitz. (Strab. vii. p. 314.)

1.1'GIDU'NUM (Kouyl&ourov), a town in the east

of Germany, the site of which must be looked for in

Silesia, either at BresUm or Liegnitz. (Ftol. ii. 11.

§ as.) [L. s.]

LU'GIL [Lyon]

LUGIO^XUM (fiDuyiovov), a town in the south

of Pannonia Inferior, was the capital of a district.

(Ptol. iL 16. § 5.) In the Peuting. Table it is

called Lugio. and it is, perhaps, to be looked for on

the site of the modern Batia, at the entrance of the

Sarriz into the Danube. [L. S.]

Ll'GUVALLUM, or LUGUVALLIUM (Anton.

Ilia.), LUGUBALUM (Ravennas), now Carlisle.

This town is not mentioned by Ptolemy; neither does

it occur in the Notitia. The reason of its omission

in the latter work may be, that, although it stands

upon the line of the Wall, the proximity of the great

castrx, as well as its own strength and population,

rendered a fixed garrison unnecessary. Beda (in

Vila S. Cuthberti, c. 8) describes Saint Culhbert on

his visit to Lugubalia, as being shown the walls and

s fountain built by the Romans; " venit ad Luguba-

liun civitatem, quae a populis Anglorum corrupto

LloI vocatur, ut alloqucretur reginam. Postera au-

tein die deducentibus earn civibus ut videret moenia

civitatis, fontemque in ea miro quondam Komanorum

opere exstructum." Leland (Itin. vol. vii. p. 54),

after speaking of the Roman architectural ami other

re:nains often brought to light in Carlisle, adds," the

h>le site of the towne is sore changid. For wher as

the stretes were and great edifices now be vacant

and garden plottes." But few remaini, if any, of

the Roman town are, at the present day, to be no­

ticed; but whenever excavations are mado to any

considerable depth, the foundations of the buildings

of Lognvallum are almost always met with. Very

recently a deep drain having been sunk on the north

tide of the castle, the course of the Great Wall has

been ascertained; previously, the direction it took

from Slnnvrix. where there was a fortified camp, was

ascertain, as above ground in the immediate vicinity

of Carlisle, it has been entirely pulled dowD. [C.R.S.]

LUMBERITA'NI. [Vasco.nes.]

LUNA (Aowro, Strab. Antra, Ptol.: Sennit

«Ui», Steph. B.: Eth. Lunensis: Luni). a city of

Emma, situated on the left bank of the Macra, a

■rwrt distance from its mouth, and consequently on

the rery borders of Liguria. There is indeed con­

siderable discrepancy among ancient authors as to

whether it was an Etruscan or a Ligurian city;

tad it is probable that this arose not only from the

circumstance of its position on the immediate frontier

of the two countries, but from its having been suc­

cessively occupied and held by both nations. Pliny

calls it " the first city qf Etruria:" and Strabo be­

fits to reckon the Etrurian coast from thence : Pto­

lemy also mentions it first in order among the cities of

Etroria; while Mela, on the contrary, assigns it to

tbe Ligoriana. (" Luna Liguruin." Mel. ii. 4. § 9;

Strab. v. p. 222 ; Phil, iii. 5. s. 8; Ptol. iii. 1. § 4.)

Frr<m the time indeed when the Macra became the

established limit between Liguria and Etruria, there

omlii U no doubt as to Luna being geographically

included within the latter country: but it is certain

that when the Romans first came into collision with

the Ligurians, that people was in possession of Luna

and the surrounding territory, and indeed held the

whole country from the Macra to the mouth of the

Arnus. (Pol. ii. 16; Liv. xxxiv. 56; xxxix. 32,

&c.) Livy, however, tells us that the territory of

Luna, in which the Roman colony was founded, and

which had been taken by them from the Ligurians,

had previously belonged to the Etruscans (Liv.

xli. 13), and this seems to be the true explanation

of the case. Both Luna and Luca, with tbe whole

of the fertile and level country adjoining them at

the foot of the Apennines, seem to have really be­

longed to the Etruscans during the height of their

power, but had fallen into the hands of the Ligu­

rians, before that people came into contact with

Rome. We have, however, scarcely any account of

Luna as an Etruscan city, no Etruscan remains

have been found there, and there is certainly no

foundation for the views of some modern writers

who have supposed it to be one of the chief cities of

Etruria, and one of the twelve that composed the

League. (Dennis's Etruria, vol. ii. p. 79.)

The first historical mention of Luna itself (as

distinguished from its more celebrated port) is that

of its capture by the Romans under Domitius Cal-

vinus (Frontin. Strab. iii. 2. § 1); but the date of

this event, which is not noticed by Livy, cannot l>e

fixed with any approach to certainty. Hence, the

first fact in its history of which we have any positive

information, is the establishment there of a Roman

colony in B. c. 177 (Liv. xli. 13), if at least we aro

to adopt in that passage the reading of " Lunam"

for " Lucain," which lias been received by the latest

editors of Livy. (Madvig, de Colon, p. 287.) Its

territory is mentioned rei*ate<lly in conjunction with

that of Pisae. as .having been laid waste by the

neighbouring Ligurians. (Liv. xxxiv. 56, xli. 19,

xliii. 9.) It appears that the two districts adjoined

one another, so that tho Pisans, in B. o. 169, com­

plained of the encroachments of the Roman colonists

on their territory. (Id. xlv. 13.) But, notwith­

standing this colony, Luna seems not to have risen

into any importance: Lucau indeed represents it as

in a state of complete decay at the period of the

Civil War (desertae moeniii Lunne, I.man, i. 586);

and though it received a fresh colony under the

Second Triumvirate, it was still in Strabo's time

but a smalt and inconsiderable city. (Lib. Colon.

p. 223; Strab. v. p. 222.) No historical notice of

it is found under trie Roman Empire, but its con-

tinned existence down to the fifth century is attested

by Pliny, Ptolemy, the Itineraries, and Rutilius, as

well as by inscriptions found on the spot. (Plin.

iii. 5. s.8; Ptol iii. 1. §4: Jtin. Ant. p. 293;

Itin. Marit. p. 501 ; Rutil. Itin. ii. 63—68.) We

learn also that it was celebrated for its wine, which

was reckoned the best in Etruria (Tin:, xiv. s. 8.

§ 67), as well as for its cheeses, which were of vast

size, some of them weighing as much jus a thousand

pounds. (Plin. xi. 42. s. 97; Martial, xiii. 30.)

But the chief celebrity of Luna in imperial times

was derived from its quarries of white marble, the

same now known as Carrara marble, and which

was considered equal, if not supe>ior in quality, to

the finest Greek marbles. It is first mentioned as

employed at Rome for building purposes in the time

of Caesar, anil from the age of Augustus onwards

was very extensively employed, as may still be seen

in tho Pantheon, the Pyramid of Caius Cestius,

P 4

