MORGANTIA. .•571 MORIDUNUM.

and it was in great part by the assistance of a body

•f mercenary troops from Morgantia and other

towns of the interior, that that tyrant succeeded in

establishing his despotic power at Syracuse, n. c

317. (Justin, xxii. 2; Diod. xix. 6.) Morgantia

is repeatedly mentioned during the Second Punic

War. During the siege of Syracuse by Marcellus

it was occupied by a Roman garrison, and great

magazines of corn collected there; but the place

was betrayed by the inhabitants to the Carthaginian

general Uimilco, and was for some time occupied by

the Syracnsan leader Hippocrates, who from thence

watched the proceedings of the siege. (Liv. xxiv.

36, 39.) It was ultimately recovered by the Roman

general, but revolted again after the departure of

Marcellus from Sicily, B. c. 211; and being retaken

by the praetor M. Cornelius, both the town and its

territory were assigned to a body of Spanish merce-

■aries, who had deserted to the Romans under

Mrricns. (Id. xxvi. 21.)

Morgantia appears to have still continued to lie

a considerable town under the Roman dominion. In

the great Servile insurrection of B. c. 102 it was

besieged by the leaders of the insurgents, Tryphon

and Athenian; but being a strong place and well

fortified, offered a vigorous resistance; and it is not

clear whether it ultimately fell into their hands or

»«. (Mod. xxxvi. 4, 7. Exc. Phot. pp. 533, 534.)

Cicero repeatedly mentions its territory as one fertile

in com and well cultivated, though it suffered se­

verely from the exactions of Verres. (Cic. Verr.

iii. 1$. 43.) It was therefore in his time still a

municipal town, and we find it again mentioned as

such by Pliny (iii. 8. s. 14); so that it must be an

error on the part of Strabo, that he speaks of Mor-

ganiiom as a city that no longer existed. (Strab.

vi p. 270.) It may, however, very probably have

been in a slate of great decay, as the notice of Pliny

is the only subsequent mention of its name, and

from this time all trace of it is lost

The position of Morgantia is a subject of great

mneertainty, and it is impossible to reconcile the

conflicting statements of ancient writers. Most

authorities, however, concur in associating it with

the Siculuui towns of the interior, that border on

the valleys of the Symaethus and its tributaries,

Meaaenuui, Agyrium, Assorus, &c. (Diod. xi. 78,

xiv. 78; Cic I'err. /. c; SI. Ital. xiv. 265); and

a more precise testimony to the same effect is found

in the statement that the Carthaginian general

Mago encamped t» the territory of Agyrium, by

tit rivtr Chrysnt, os tie road leading to Afor-

gaxtia. (Diod. xir. 95.) The account of its siege

during the Servile War also indicates it as a place of

natuml strength, built on a lofty hill. (Diod. xxxvi.

L e.) Hence it is very strange that Livy in one

passage speaks of the Roman fleet as lying at Mor-

gaatia, as if it were a place on the sea-coast ; a

statement wholly at variance with all otlicr accounts

COIS OF MORGANTIA.

of its position, and in which there must probably be

some mistake. (Liv. xxiv. 27.) On the whole we

may safely place Morgantia somewhere on the bor­

ders of the fertile tract of plain that extends from

Catania inland along the Sinteto and its tributaries;

and probably on the hills between the Dittaino and

the Gurna Loiiga, two of the principal of those tribu­

taries; but any attempt at a nearer determination

must be purely conjectural.

There exist coins of Morgantia, which have the

name of the city at full, MOPrANTlNflN; this is

unfortunately effaced on the one figured in the pre­

ceding column. [E. H. B.]

MORGE'TES (MipyriTts), an ancient people of

southern Italy, who had disappeared before the

period of authentic history, but are noticed by several

ancient writers among the earliest inhabitants of

that part of the peninsula, in connection with the

Oenotrians, Itali, and Siculi. Antiochus of Syracuse

(ap.Diuw/s. i. 12) represented the Sieuli, Morgetes

and Itulietes as all three of Oenotrian race; and

derived their names, according to the favourite

Greek custom, from three successive rulers of the

Oenotrians, of whom Italus was the first, Morges

the second, and Siculua the third. This last

monarch broke up the nation into two, separating

the Siculi from their parent stock; and it would

seem that the Morgetes followed the fortunes of the

younger branch; for Strabo, who also cites An­

tiochus as his authority, tells us that the Siculi and

Morgetes at first inhabited the extreme southern

peninsula of Italy, until they were expelled from

thence by the Oenotrians, when they crossed over

into Sicily. (Strab. vi. p. 257.) The geographer

also regards the name of Morgantium in Sicily as

an evidence of the existence of the Morgetes in that

island (Ibid. pp. 257. 270); but no other writer

notices them there, and it is certain that in the

time of Thucydides their name must have been

effectually merged in that of the Siculi. In the

Etymologicon Magnum, indeed, Morges is termed a

king of Sicily: but it seems clear tliat a king of

the Siculi is intended; for the fable there related,

which calls Siris a daughter of Morges, evidently

refers to Italy alone. (Etym. M. v. iipts.) All

that we can attempt to deduce as historical from

the legends above cited, is that there appears to

have existed in the S. of Italy, at the time when

the Greek colonists first became acquainted with it,

a people or tribe bearing the name of Morgetes,

whom they regarded as of kindred race with the

Chones and other tribes, whom they included under

the more general appellation of the Oenotrians.

[Oknotuia.] Their particular place of abode

cannot be fixed with certainty; but Strabo seems

to place them in the southern peninsula of Brut-

tiuni, adjoining Rhegium and Locri. (Strab. vi.

p. 257.) [E.H. B.]

MORGINNUM, in Gallia Narbonensis, is placed

by tho Table on the road from Vienna (Vienne)

to Alpis Cottia, and 14 M. P. short of Cularo

(Grenoble). The place is Moirans. [G. L.]

MORl'AH. [Jkhl-salkm.]

MOR1CAMBA (Moputa>s,>), Ptol. ii. 3. § 3), an

estuary of Britain, Morccambe Bay, on the coast of

Lancashire. [C. R. S.]

MORIDU'NUM, in Britain, placed both by the

Antonine Itin. and Geogr. l.'.iv. near Lsca of the

Dumnonii (Exeter): it was one of the stations

termed majutiones and mutationes, probably the

latter : its site has by no means been agreed upon by

u B 2

