PESLA. 581 TETALIAE.

!•.oraliaofd by Paul us Diaccmus (Ffltt Jxing.

l l() » or*, of tbo chief cities of Tuscia under the

Ltbtrii, od in the middle ages became an in-

t-ytdtat republic. Prrugin still continnes a con-

■^nik cirr. with 15,000 inhabitants, and is the

a;«il ofor* of the provinces of the Roman states.

n» maaVra city of Perugia retains considerable

of its ancient grandeur. The most im-

l«*jn of tine in the remains of the walls, which

tv ii chtrarler with those of Cknui and Tod*,

hag consoled of tag rectangular blocks of traver-

i>. <f ten rerohr masonry, wholly different from

"• nia ui more massiTe walls of Cortona and

i-iirrra It it a subject of much doubt whether

tor Tills belong to the Etruscan city, or are of

'■ uj T.imu time*. The ancient gates, two of

»*-«4 «U nit tnuit in ail probability be referred

* tt< Uner period. The most striking of these is  
■in m known ts the Arco dAugusta, from the

ir'tyj* 'AnrtttU l'erusia" over the arch: this

raiLh ditra from the restoration of the city under

iKunn. though some writers would assign it to a

no ten remote period. Another gate, known as

k> /Wta Mania, also retains its ancient arch;

wren] others, though more or less modernised,

p rriinh of ancient construction as high as the

ayatt |t is thus certain that the ancient city

a* *t Don extensive than the modern one; but,

<tit, it otfupird only the summit of the lull,

»*J s of ray considerable elevation, and sends

an u nets and underfaits on the one side towards

'Ti*!, on the other towards the lake of Thra­

ce*. Hence the lines of circumvallation drawn

avi tat foot of the hill by Octavian enclosed a

m X rtadia, or 7 Raman miles (Appiun, /:. C.

531 thonrt the circuit of the city itself did not

Mil aula.

71- tiirf remains of the ancient Etruscan city

< u» »pskhrei without the walls, many of which

"^"3 rxplond, and one—the family tomb of the

aaa»—ats bean preserved in precisely the same

■ " •*« first discovered. From the insrrip-

a. uae of vhich are bilingnal, we learn that the

* an vu written in Etruscan " Velimnas,"  
hi j rendered in Latin by Volumnius. Other

sHt>i appear to have belonged to the families

■ ernes aaramed the Latin forms, Alia, Caesia,

■au. Veuia, and Vibta. Another of these tombs

ntniiJIt for the careful construction and regular

an of as arched vault, on which is engraved an

ftna inscription of considerable length. But a

nrpartant monmnent of that people is an

5*tj urw preserved in the mnseum at Perugia,

* a:.sd» to forty-six lines in length, and is the  
TOaarsUe fragment of the language which

■*> nmrrred to us. [Ethukia, p 858.] Nu­

ts avrophagi. urns, vases, and other relics from

ar*j tombs, are preserved in the same museum,

a] *t rnacy inacriptioos of the Roman period.

M^i, Itcrmoni Perugine, 2 vols, 4to., Pe-

k US«; Id. /{ Sepolcro dei Voturmi, 4tn„

nX 1*41; Dennis's Etruria, vol. ii. pp 458—

* bam from ancient authoni that Juno was re­  
al» :i* latthvrr deity of I'eras is till after the

•t ^ the oty fca av. c 40, when the temple of

* areaj the only edifice that escaped the con-

list deity was adopted by the surviving

as a tketr peculiar patron. (Dion Cass, xlviii.

a. C. v. 49.) [K.H.B.]

l'U or PESCLA (A'or. Imp. c. 28, vol. i.

p. 75, ed. B'dcking), is probably the border-fortress in

the N. of the Thebaid, which Ptolemy (iv. 5. § 71)

calls naaaiXuv or ndrnroAoi. Pesla stood on the

right bank of the Nile, and was the quarters of a

German company (turma) of cavalry (D'Anville,

Afrm. ntr TEgypte, p. 190). [W. B. D.]

PESSINUS, PES1NUS (neo-o-n-oCr, IWrruWi:

Eth. Tltaaivovvrtos), the principal town of the To-

listoboii, in the west of Galatia, situated on the

southern slope of Mount Dindymus or Agdistis, near

the left bank of the river Sangarius, from whose

sources it was about 15 miles distant. (Pans. L 4.

§ 5; Strab. xii. p. 567.) It was 16 miles south

of Genua, on the road from Ancyra to Amorium.

{It. Ant. pp. 201, 202.) It was the greatest com­

mercial town in those parts, and was believed to

have derived its name from the image of its great

patron divinity, which was said to have fallen

(wfo*cii*) from heaven. (Herodian, i. 11; Anim.

Marc. xxii. 9.) Pessinus owes its greatest celebrity

to the goddess Rhea or Cybele,whom the natives called

Agdistis, and to whom an immensely rich temple

was dedicated. Her priests were anciently the

rulers of the place ; but in later times their honours

and powers were greatly reduced. (Strab. /. c, x.

p. 469; Diod. Sic. iii. 58, &c.) Her temple con­

tained her image, which, according to some, was of

stone (Liv. xxix. 10, 11), or, according to othent, of

wood, and was believed to have fallen from heaven.

(Apollod. iii. 11; Amm. Mare. I. c.) The fame of

the goddess appears to have extended all over the

ancient world; sad in n. c. 204, in accordance with

a command of the Sibylline books, the Romans sent

a special embassy to Pessinus to fetch her statue, it

being believed that the safety of Rome depended on

its removal to Italy. (Liv. I. c; Strab. xii. p. 567.)

The statue was set up in the temple of Victory, on

the Palatine. The goddess, however, continued

nevertheless to be worshipped at Pessinus; and the

Galli, her priests, sent a deputation to Manlins when

he was encamped on the banks of the Sancarius.

(Liv. xxxviii. 18; Polyb. xx. 4.) At a still later

period, the emperor Julian worshipped the goddess

in her ancient temple. (Amm. Marc. I. c.) The

kings of Pergamum adorned the sanctuary with a

magnificent temple, and porticoes of white marble,

and surrounded it with a beautiful grove. Under

the Roman dominion the town of Pessinus began to

decay, although in the new division of the empire

under Constantine it was made the capital of the

province Galatia Salutaris. (Hieroel. p. 697.)

After the sixth century the town is no longer men­

tioned in history. Considerable ruins of Pessinus,

especially a well-preserved theatre, exist at a dis­

tance of 9 or 10 miles to the south-east of Sevri

Ilittar, where they were first discovered by Texier.

(Iktcript. de tAiie Mimeort). They extend over

three hills, separated by valleys or ravines. The

marble seats of the theatre are nearly entire, but

the scena is entirely destroyed; the whide district is

covered with blocks of marble, shafts of columns,

and other fragments, showing that the place must

have been one of unusual magnificence. (Hamilton,

fajcarches, i. p 438, foil.; Leake, Asia Minor, p.

82, foil., who seems to be mistaken in looking for

Pessinus on the right bank of the Sangarius. [L. S.]

I'ETA'LIAE, incorrectly called Petalia (IlfToA/o)

by Strabo (x. p 444), small islands off the coast of

Kuboea, at the entrance of the Kuripus, now J'eta-

liit. (PUn. iv. 12. s. 23; Leake, Northern Greece,

toI. ii. p. 423.)

p p 3

