MELITA. MELITENE. 321

bitual aw there, as well as in the neighbouring

island of Sicily; and one of these, which is bi­

lingual, shows that Greek and Punic must have

been both prevalent at the same period. (Boeckh,

Corpus Inter. Gr. 5752—5754.) The former was

probably the language of the more cultivated classes,

io tbe same manner as Italian is at the present day.

Ihodorus justly extols the excellence of the ports

of Melita, to whit h that island has always been in­

debted for its importance. (Diod. t. 12.) The an­

cient geographers all mention a city of the same

name with the island, but its precise site is nowhere

indicated; there is, however, good reason to believe

that it was tbe same with that of the old capital of

the udand, now called Medina (i. e. " the city*'), or

Cirita Vecchia, situated almost in the centre of the

bland; the modern town of La Valletta, which is

the present capital, was not founded till 1566.

Cicero speaks of a celebrated temple of Juno ** on

a promontory not far from the town" (Cic. Verr.

iv. 46); but the expression is too vague to prove

that the Utter was situated close to the sea, like

tbe modern Valletta. Ptolemy also notices the

•anw temple, as well as one of Hercules, evidently

tbe Phoenician deity Melkart. (Ptol. iv. 3. § 37.)

The ruins of both these temples are described by Quin-

tino, who wrote in 1536, as exiting in his time;

but the grounds of identification are not given. The

only considerable ruins now existing in the island

are thuse on the S. coast, near a place called Casal

Vrendi, which are described in detail by Barth.

{ArdL Zttiung, 1848, Kns. 22, 23.) These are

evidently of Phoenician origin, and constructed of

massive stones, in a very rude style of architecture,

bearing much resemblance to the remains called

ih* Torre deiGiganti, in the neighbouring island of

Goto. [Gaulos.] Some slight vestiges of build­

ings near the port called Marsa Scirocco may per-

haps be those of the temple of Hercules; while, ac-

cordiog to Fazello and Quintino, those of the temple

of Judo were situated in the neighbourhood of the

Cut* of S. Angela, opposite to the modern city of

Valletta. (Quintini JJescript. his. Mtlitae. p. 110,

ic Bunnann's The*, vol. xv.; FazelL de Reb. Sic.

i. 1. p. 16.)

cone or meuta.

Ovid terms Melita a fertile island (Fast. iii. 567);

sb expression which is certainly ill applied, for

though it was, in ancient as well as modern times,

r°I«Uotts *nd flourishing, and probably, therefore,

■ ii- well cultivated, the soil is naturally stony

«ad barren, and the great want of water precludes

■H natural fertility. Cotton, which at the present

**7 is extensively cultivated there, was doubtless  
the material of the fine stuffs manufactured in the

fclrad; and the excellence of its soft stone as a

bttjUiog material accounts for the splendour of the

■*•»■, extolled by Diodorus (v. 12). Another pe-

**b*t production of the island was a breed of small  
top, noticed br Strabo and other authors, though

some writers derived these from the Melita in the

Adriatic. The breed still exists in Malta (Strab.

vi p. 277; Athen. xii. p. 518; Plin. iii. 26. s. 30.)

The freedom from venomous reptiles which Malta

enjoys, in common with many other secluded

islands, is ascribed by the inhabitants to the mira­

culous intervention of St. Paul. (Quintino. /. c. p.

117.) [K. H. B.]

ME'LITA (MWtw, Scyl. p. 8; Steph. B.: Agat hem.

i. 5 ; Plin. iii. 30 , Itin. Anton.; Pent. Tab.; Mt\t-

TT}in}, Ptol. ii. 16. (I 14; M*A*to, Const. Porph.

de Adm. Imp. 36; Malata, Geogr. Kav.), one of

the Liburnian group of islands. It was so called

like its namesake Melita or Malta, from the excel­

lence of its honey; and some erroneously have

claimed for it the honour of being the island on

which St. Paul was wrecked. (See preceding article.)

It is the sam« as the long narrow and hilly island

of Meleda, lying about half-way between Curzola

and Ragusa, remarkable in modern times for the

singular phenomenon of subterranean noises called

"Detonazioni di Meleda," the cause of which has

been attributed to the region of volcanic activity

which is supposed to underlie the whole of this

coast. (Coinp. Daubeny, On Volcanoes, p. 333.)

The site of a palace which was built by Agesilaus

of Cilicia, the father of Oppianus, the author of

the "Halieutica," when banished to the island in

the time of Septimius Severus, is still shown.

(Wilkinson, Dalmatia and Monte-Negro, vol. i.

p. 265.) [K. B. J.]

MELITAEA, or MELITEIA (MeXtrafa, Strab ,

Plin., Steph. B.; MeAfrfto, Polyb.; M«Aer/a,Thuc:

Eth. MeAirai*uj, MeAn-eiis), an ancient town of

Phthiotis in Thessaly, situated near the river Kni-

peus, at the distance of 10 stadia from the town

Hellas. (Strab. ix. p. 432.) The inhabitants of

Melitaea affirmed that their town was anciently

called Pyrrha, and they showed in the market-placo

the tomb of Hellen, the son of Deucalion and Pyrrha,

(Strab. I c.) When Brasidas was marching through

Thessaly to Macedonia, his Thessalian friends met

him at Melitaea in order to escort him (Thuc. iv.

76); and we learn from this narrative that the

town was one day's march from Pharsalus, whither

Brasidas proceeded on leaving the former place. In

the Lamiac war the allies left their baggage at Me­

litaea, when they proceeded to attack Leonnalus.

(Diod. xviii. 15.) Subsequently Melitaea was in

the hands of the Actoliaus. Philip ut tempt d to

take it, but he did not succeed, in consequence of

his scaling-ladders being too short. (Polyb. v. 97,

ix. 18.) Melitaea is also mentioned by Scylux,

p. 24; Ephor. ap Steph. B. s. v.; Dicaearch. p. 21;

Plin. iv. 9. 8. 16; Ptol. iii. 13. § 46, who erro­

neously calls it MfAirapa. Leake identities it

with the ruins of an ancient fortress situated upon

a lofty hill on the left bank of the Enipeus, at

the foot of which stands the small village of

Keuzlar. (Northern Greece, vol. iv. p. 469, seq.)

ME'LITE (MfArnj). 1. A lake of Acarnania.

[Acarnama, p. 9, b.j

2. A demus in the city of Athens. [Athknak,

p. 301, 1..]

MELITE'NE (y MfArrW, Ptol. vi. 3. § 3), the

name given by Ptolemy to that part of Susiana

which lay along the banks of the Ticris. [V.]

MELITE'NE (M«AmjW): Ktk. M*\iti}v6s), a

city in the easternmost part of Cappadocia, and the

capital of the district called Melitene. It appears

that m the time of Strabo (xii. p. 537) neither

TOL1L

