SARDINIA. 913

SASDfXLt

K U, k a fcrmn. vol. n. p. 453.) It

rfMfxavv&kteiei, opedalljr of tanny; and

fcnca. viatS-Lo which produced the purple

tr.i its most peculiar natural

wtbi wild ibeep. or moufflon, called

m\\*m {Oris Amtaon Linn ), which

_ fast bank a the more unfrequented

a> Mmi (Stak r. p. 225; Pans. x.

Mm, B. A. xri. 34), and a herb,

Stria, the bitterness of which was

■ a bod of cooTulsire grin on the

4 im that tatted it, *

r«iM u the origin of the

Mil (ma Smrioox-us • lap&wv

f 1J; Soil #. r. Zopowyios;

Sofia. 4. §4.) But

no of this phrase are e

* peroliar herb alluded to by the  
m now idrutified. The bitterness

l aoawy (Hur. A. P. 375), which wrj

■ waft from the same herb, is, however,

lataroWe at the present day- (Smyth's

104.) I'aosaJiias mentions that the

fen wolves, as well a- from vipers and

«tf sfrprota, an advantage that it still

Xl7.§ 12: S-lin.4. § 3; De la Mar-

173, 177); bot it contained a

r. apparently a kind of tarantula,

which was peculiar to the bland.

inch was

\ hrase, a

Serv. ad

the ety-

. reeding ly

pspnJatkm of Sardinia seem to have

w^erfl reputation among the Romans,

J cxpwaus of Cicero ( pro Scaur. 9. §§

i) mart, indeed, be received with con-

i.as it waa his object in those pas-

iwaat* the value of their testimony; but

J expreasion of " Sardi venales" was gene-

1 aa applying to the wnr; hlessness of

i well as to the cheapness and

i from that country. ('* Habes Sar-

t^fam aho nequiorem," Cic. ad Fam. vii.

Mors, even in th>- days of Augustus, seem

i eaotinaally making inr<iads into the

Aaries for the purp-*e of carrying off

1 v. p. 255); but as these mountaineers I

Strata and Dtodonia, lived in caves

—i the ground, and were unacquainted

■Mm (Strab. /. c.; Wind. iv. 30), it is no

fr'aat they did not make nvtul slaves.

»u>uqa:ii« found in Sardinia, by far the

"sole are the singular structures called

Xnraglie or Nnnurcis, which are

Miliar to the island. They are a

':ind of towers, in the form of a truncated cone

strongly built of massive stones, arranged in layei-s,

but not of such massive blocks, or fitted with such

skill and care, as those of the Cyclopean structures

of Greece or Italy. The interior is occupied with

one or more vaulted chambers, the upper cone (where

there are two, one over the other, as is frequently

the case) being approached by a winding stair or

ramp, constructed in the thickness of the walls. In

some cases there is a more extensive basement, or

solid substruction, containing several lateral cham­

bers, all constructed in the same manner, with

| rudely pointed vaukings, showing no knowledge of

the principle of the arch. The number of these

singular structures scattered over the island is pro­

digious; above 1200 have been noticed and recorded,

and in many cases as many as twenty or thirty aro

found in the same neigbourhood: they are naturally

f»und in very different degrees of preservation, and

many varieties of arrangement and construction are

observed among them; but their purpose and des­

tination are still unknown. Nor can we determine

to what people they are to be ascribed. They are

certainly more ancient than either the Roman or

Carthaginian dominion in the island, and are evi­

dently the structures alluded to by the author of the

treatise <& Afirabiltbus, which he describes as ddAoi,

or vaulted chambers, the construction of which lie

ascribes to lulaus. (Pseud. Arist. de Mirab. 104.)

Diodorus also speaks of great works constructed by

Daedalus for Iolaus, which must evidently refer to

the same class of monuments. (Diod. iv. 30.) Koth

traditions are valuable at least as evidence of their

reputed high antiquity; but whether they are to be

ascribed to the Phoenicians or to the native in­

habitants of the island, is a point on which it is very

difficult to form an opinion. They are fully de

scribed by De la Marmora in his Voyage en Sar-

daiffne, vol. ii. (from which work the annexed figure

is taken), and more briefly by Capt, Smyth {Sar­

dinia, pp. 4 — 7) and Vale'ry ( Voy. en Sardatyne).

The work of De la Marmora, above cited, contains

a most complete and accurate account of all the

antiquities of Sardinia, as well as the natural his­

tory, physical geography, and present state of the

island. Its authority has been generally followed

throughout the preceding article, in the determina­

tion of ancient names and localities. The works of

Captain Smyth {Present State of Sardinia, 8vo. Lon­

don, 1828), Vale'ry ( Voyagecn Corse et en Sardau/ne,

2 vols. 8vo. Tans, 1838), and Tyndale {Island of

I Sardinia, 3 vols. 8vo. London, 1849), though of mutu

1 interest, are of inferior value. [ K. II. Ii.J

MVUAUUK ,I» MUDISIA.

