MACEDONIA. 837 MACESTUS.

The Peutinjer Table furnishes the following route

from Pella to Larisua in Thessaly: —

PelU.

Beroea - - Film

Ascordus - „

Aniloa - - „

B»Ja - - „

Anamo - „

Hat era - - Katerina.

Bimn (Dium) - - MaUithria.

Siibatium - - „

Stenas (Tempe) - Lykostomo.

Olrmpum - „

Two roads led to Stobi in Paeonia, the one from

Hmeka LyncwtB, the other from Thessalonica.

According to tlie Table, the stations of the former

are —

He faciei a.

Ceramie,

Euristo (Andaristus).

Stobi.

Of the latter —

Thessalonica.

Gallicum - - Galliko.

Tauriana - - JJoirdn.

Momenta - „

BCoau (Stena) - Demirkapi.

Antigonia - „

Stobi - „

Ynm Stobi again two roads struck off to the NW.

■nd KB. to Sccipi (Sk6pi(i). at the 4i de'bouche*" from

the Ulyrian mountains into the plains of Paeonia

and the Upper A.\ius. and to Serdiea;—

Stobi.

Tnumpum.

Astibon - - htib.

PautaUa - - Ghiustendil.

Aelea

Serdicm - - Sofia.

(Coasinery. Voyage dans la Macedoine, 2 vols. Paris,

1831; Leake, Travels in North Greece, 4 vols. Lon-

d-fl 1835; Ami B^ue". La Turquie eTEurojje, 4 vols.

Paris. 1840; Griesbach, Reise durch Humelien und

A'aol Brusa, 2 vols. Gttttingen, 1841; Jos. Midler,

Albanien Humelien, und die Osttrreichisch-Mon-

tenegrische Grewe, Prmg. 1844; Kiepert, Gtneral-

Karte der Europaischen Turkei, 4 parts, Berlin.

1853; Xiebuhr, Led. on Anc. Ethn->g. and Geotj.

voL i. pp. 275, 297; UaJin Albanesuche Studien,

Jena 1854.)

Though the Macedonians were regarded by the

Greeks as a semi-barbarous people, the execution of

tbeir coins would not lead to that inference, as they

are fine and striking pieces, boldly executed in high,

sharp, relief. The coin of Alexander I. of Macedon,

te-c. 500, is the first known monarchic coin in the

world that can be identified with a written name,

and to which, consequently, a positive date can be

asigned. It has for ** type" a Macedonian warrior

leading a horse; he bears two lances, and wears the

Macedonian hat. The coins of the princes who fol­

lowed him exhibit the steps towards perfection very

graphically.

^ith Philip II. a new era in the Macedonian

coinage commences. At this period the coins had

Mnn perfect on both sides, that is, had a M reverse"

*]ual in execution to the "obverse." During his  
«ign the gold mines at Mt. Pangaeus were worked.

He issued a large gold coinage, the pieces of which

*ent by bis name, and were put forth in such abun­  
dant* as to circulate throughout all Greece. The

series of coins, from Philip II. to the extinction of

the monarchy, exhibit the finest period of Greek

monetary art. (Comp. H. N. Humphrey's Ancient

Coins and Medals, London, 1830, pp. 58—65.)

During the tctrarchy there are numerous existing

coins, evidently struck at Amphipolis, bearing the

head of the local deity Artemis Tauropolos, with an

'•obverse" representing the common Macedonian

"type," the club of Hercules within a garland of

oak, and the legend MatttZdyuiv Trpwrns. (Comp.

Eckhel, vol. ii. p. 61, full.) [E. B. J.]

COIN* OF MACEDONIA.

MACELLAorMAGELLA(Ma«€XAa:il/aee//rtro),

a town in the N \V. of Sicily, which is noticed by

Polybius (i. 24) as being taken by the Homan con­

suls, C. Duillius and Cn. Cornelius, as they returned

after raising the siege of Segesta, in B.C. 260. It

is interesting to find the same circumstance noticed,

and the name of this otherwise obscure town men­

tioned, in the celebrated inscription on the rostral

column which records the exploits of C. Duillius.

(Orell. Itiscr. 549.) It would seem from Diodorus.

that at an earlier period of the t-ame war, the

Romans had besieged Macella without success,

which may account for the importance thus attached

to it (Diod, xxiii. 4. p. 502.) The passage of

Polybius in reality affords no proof of the position of

Miicclla, though it has been generally received as an

evidence that it was bituated in the neighbourhood

of Segesta and Pnnormus. But as we find a town

still called Afacellaro, in a strong position on a hill

about 15 miles E. of Segesta, it is probable that

this may occupy the site of Macella. The only

other mention of it in history occurs in the Second

Punic War (B.C. 211), among the towns which re­

volted to the Carthaginians after the departure of

Marcellus from Sicily. (Liv. xxvi. 21.) As its

name is here associated with those of Hybla and

Murgantia, towns situated in quite another part of

the island, Cluverius supposes that this must be n

distinct town from the Macella of Polybius; but

there is clearly no sufficient reason for this as­

sumption. The name is written in the old editions

of Livy, Magella; and we find the Magellini enume­

rated by Pliny among the stipendiary towns of the

interior of Sicily (Plm. iii. 8. s. 14), while Ptolemy,

like Polybius, writes the name Ma««AAa. (Ptol. iii.

4. § 14.) The orthography is therefore dubious, as

the authority of so ancient an inscription as that of

Duillius is of no avail in this case. The coins which

have been ascribed to Macella are of very dubious

authenticity. [E. H. B.]

MACEPHRACTA (Ammian. xxiv. 2), a small

town of Babylonia mentioned by Ammianus Marcel -

linus. It was situated apparently on the Euphrates,

to the W. of Sittace, not far from the place where

the Royal Canal, or Nahr-malka} joined the Eu­

phrates. [V.]

MACESTUS or MECESTUS(MoWtm or M'-

Kcortir), a tributary of the river Khyudacus: it took

