LEA. LEBADEIA. 151

Byzantine writers; the first time that they appear

in history was A. d. 456, during the reign of the

emf*ror Marcian, who was successful against their

kiug Gobaies. (Prise. Exc. de Leg. Horn. p. 71;

rump. Le Beau, Bat Empire, vol. vi. p. 385.) The

Lazic war, the contest of Justinian and Chosroes on

the hanks of the Phasis, has been minutely described

by contemporary historians. (Procop. B. P. ii. 15,

17, 23, 29, 30, B. G. iv. 7—16, Agath. ii. iii. iv.

pp. 55—132, 141 : Menand. Protect. Exc. de Ley.

Cent, pp.99, 101,133—147; comp. Gibbon, c.xlii'.;

LeBeau, vol. ix. pp. 44,133,209—220,312—353.)

In the Atlas (pt i. pi. xiv.) to Dubois de Mont-

pereux ( Voyage Autour du Caucase, comp. vol. ii.

pp. 73 —132) will be found a map of the theatre of

this war. In a. d. 520, or 512 according to the

era of Theophanes, the Lazi were converted to

Christianity (Gibbon, L c.; Neander, Gesch. der

Ckrutl. Kcligum, vol. iii. p. 236), and, under the

name of Leizians. are now spread through the country

near the SE. angle of the Euxine from Gttriel to the

neighbourhood of Trcbizond. Their language, belong­

ing to the Indo-Germanic family, appears to contain

remains of the ancient Colchian idiom. (Cosmos,

vol. il note 201, trans.; Prichard, Physical Hist of

Mankind, vol. iv. p. 263.) [E. B.J.]

LEA. an island in the Aegaean sea, mentioned

only by Pliny (iv. 12. s. 23) in conjunction with

Ascania and Anaphe.

LEAXDIS (A«a^3(s), a town in the eastern part

of the strategy of Cataonia, in Armenia Minor, 18

miles to the south of Cocuxus, in a pass of Mount

Taurus, on the road to Anazarbus. (Ptol. v. 7.

§ 7.) This town is perhaps the same as the La-

randa of the Antoninc Itinerary (p. 211) and of

Hieroclcs (p. 675), which must not be confounded

with the Laranda of Lycaonia or Isauria. [L. S.]

LEAXI'TAE. [Leamtes Sinus.]

LEANITES SINUS (Aeot-frfly k6\ttos), a bay on

the western side of the Persian Gulf, so named from

the Arab tribe Leanitae (Aftmrai, Ptol. vi. 7.

§ 18). They are placed north of Gerrah, between

the Thetni and the Abucaei. Pliny states that the

vjxmt was variously written: "Sinus intiinus, in quo

I.v-anitae qui riomen ei dedere; regio eorum Agra, et

in :*iim Ijteana, vel, at a!ii Aaelana ; nam et ipsum

'inam nostri Aelaniticnni scripserc, alii Aeleniticum,

Artemidortis Alaniticum, Juba Lacniticum" (vi.28).

.Vrra, which Pliny represents as the capital, is doubt-

1*m the "Adari civitas" ('Aoapou woAis) of Ptolemy,

in the country of the Leanitae. Mr. Forster regards

the name as an abbreviated form of " Sinus Khau-

•Uaites" or Bay of Khaulan, in which he discovers

an idiomatic modification of the name Haulanites,

the Arabic form for Havileans, — identical with

the Bern KhaXcd, — the inhabitants of the Aval or

Havilah of Scripture [Havtlah]. (Geography of

JroWfi, vol. i. pp. 43, 52, 53, vol. n. p. 215.) The

gulf apparently extended from the Itamus Portus

(A"*tfemo) on the north, to the Chersonesi extrema

{Rw-d-Char) on the south. [G. W.]

LEBADE. [Sipylus.]

LEBADEIA (AeSifftio, Herod., Strab., et alii;

Acfotta, Plut. Ijys. 28: i?M. AcSaScfa: Livadhia),

a town near the western frontier of Boeotia, described

by Strabo (ix. p. 414) as lying between Mt. Helicon

*M Chacroneia. It was situated at tlie foot of a  
pwjpitmis height, which is an abrupt northerly

irrmination of Mt. Helicon. Pausanias relates (ix.

&• § 1) that this height was originally occupied

W the Homeric city of Mideia (Mfteia, It. ii. 507),

from whence the inhabitants, under the conduct of

Lebadus, an Athenian, migrated into the plain, and

founded there the city named after him. On the

other hand, Strabo maintains (ix. p. 413) that the

Homeric cities Arne and Mideia were both swallowed

up by the lake Copais. Lebadeia was originally an

insignificant place, but it rose into importance in

consequence of its possessing the celebrated oracle

of Trophonius. The oracle was consulted both by

Croesus (Herod, i. 46) and by Mardonius (Herod,

viii. 134), and it continued to be consulted even in

the time of Plutarch, when all the other oracles in

Boeotia had become dumb. (Pint, de Def. Orac. 5.)

Pausanias himself consulted the oracle, and he

speaks of the town in terms which show that it

was in his time the most flourishing place in Boeotia.

But notwithstanding the sanctity of the oracle, Le­

badeia did not always escape the ravages of war.

It was taken and plundered both by Lysander and

by Archelans, the general of Mithridates. (Plut.

Lys. 28, Sttll. 16.) In the war against Perseus, it

espoused the side of the Romans, while Thebes,

Haliartus, and Coroneia declared in favour of the

Macedonian king. (Polyb. xxvii. 1.) It continues

to exist under the slightly altered name of Livad/tia,

and during the Turkish supremacy it gave its name

to the whole province. It is Btill a considerable

town, though it suffered greatly in the war of inde­

pendence against the Turks.

The modern town is situated on two opposite hills,

rising on each bank of a small stream, called Her-

cyna by Pausanias, but the greater jart of the

houses are on the western slope, on the summit of

which is a ruined castle. Pausanias says that the

Hercyna rose in a cavern, from two fountains, close

to one another, one called the fountain of Oblivion

and the other the fountain of Memory, of which the

persons who were going to consult the oracle were

obliged to drink. The Hercyna is iu reality a con­

tinuation of an occasional torrent from Mount Heli­

con; but at the southern extremity of the town, on

the eastern side of the castle-hill, there are some

copious sources, which were evidently the reputed

fountains of the Hercyna. They issue from either

side of the Hercyna, those on the right bank being

the most copious, flowing from under the rocks in

many large streams, and forming the main body of the

river; and those on the left bank being insignificant,

and flowing, in tlie time of Dodwell, through ten

small spouts, of which there arc still remains. The

fountains on the right bank are warm, and are called

Chil'ui (Ji Xt\td), and sometimes rd yKwpa vipd,

or the water unfit for drinking; while the fountains

on the left bank are cold and clear, and are named

Krya (tj Kpva, i. e. rj Hpua j3pu.T(s, the cold source,

in opposition to the warm, Chilit'i). Neither of these

two sets of fountains rise out of a cave, and so far

do not correspond to the description of Pausanias;

but there is a cavern close to each; and in the

course of ages, since the destruction of the sacred

buildings of Trophonius, the caverns may easily

have been choked up, and the springs have emerged

in different spots. The question, however, arises,

which of the caverns contained the reputed sources

of the Hercyna? The answer to this must depend

upon the position we assign to the sacred grove of

Trophonius, in which the source of the Hercyna was

situated. Leake places the sacred grove on the

right or eastern bank; but Ulrichs on the left, or

western bank. The latter appears more probable,

on account of the passage in Pausanias, Stcf/ryci Si

L 4

