MYSIA. MYSIA. 389

fl i Bwicre in (he north-west of Asia Minor,

nidi icoriiiig to Strabo (xii. p. 572) was derived

fro the mar beech-trees which grew about Mount

''r-BfW, anj were called by the Lydians fiwroi.

"V-n Dare plausibly connect the name with the

v a DjArsh or swamp, according to which

wwiM signify a marshy country. This sup-

p*Om it rept»irted by the notion prevalent among

*-v mifat* that the Mysians had immigrated into  
.'. .i Iter from the marshy countries about the Lower

hzix. caM Moesia, whence Mysia and Mocsia

"rail be «n!i dialectic varieties of the same name.

R' ». il-A the Mysians are sometimes mentioned

* "i tfct distinctive attribute of the u Asiatic," to  
■ttzwa tbera from the European Mysians, or

K lj. fKojtalh. ad IHon. Per. 809 ; 'Schol. ad

JrhtWL 1115.)

"' Aittic [TDvince of Mysia was bounded in

fee tath by the Propontis and the Hellespont, in

by the Aegean, and in the south by Monnt.

TrsBted Lydia. la the east the limits are not

rwrh defined bv the ancients, though it was

WW'by Kih ynia and Phrygia, and we nmy

*» tat river Rhyndacus and Mount Olympus to  
k*. ■ the whole, formed the boundary line,

fltnk m. pp. 564, 4c, 571.) The whole extent of

7 beahrs: the came of Mysia, was divided into

hfarti:—I. Mtsia Minor (Mi/ct(o t) fi'Kpa), that

^ -•□urthem cc^t-district on the Hellespont and

rV -xi> a far a.- Mount Olympus; it also bore the

* ■ f)fv>iiiMle>.p>ntiaca, or simply Hellespontus,  
■< * aattaanti were called Helles'pontii (PtoL v.

I fit 3,14; Xenoph. Ages. i. 14); or, from

■Ki <J!rnipna, Mysia Olyinpetie (Mwn'a fj 'OAw/*-

** '.Jink. xiL p. 571). This Leaser Mysia cm-  
^»»: :> <&::icts of Mokkse, Abrkttkhb and

fcifaa sbuD ('Ar/ar TrtZiov; St rah. xii. pp. 574,

Pll 1 Xysia Major (Muo"ia it /irydAtj), form-

fftbraetbeni part of the interior of the country,

P^-ar I trait of country extending between Troas

N -**«* at far as the bay of Adramyttium. The

p>pd ciry of this part was Pergamum, from

^* tie eoottry is also called Mysia Pcrgamene

a $ nir/wr^; Strab. I c; Ptol. v. 2.

V1* ) 3. Tkoas (yi Tweeds), the territory of

Trey, that the northern part of the

tmtt, from Sigeinm to the bay of Adra-

4. Aeous, the sonthem part of the

'^caH» that between the rivers Caicus and

a i. Tutiiraxia TtvBparia), or the

'^ the southern frontier, where in ancient

Totbia is said to have formed a Mysian

a- (Strab. xii. p. 551.)

» iaaie. and division*, however, were not

■t at all times. Under the Persian do-

■ 'hea Mysia fumed a part of the second

n> (Brroi in. 90), the name Mysia was ap-

P'^'JUbf north-eastern part of the country,

■• •» Myna Minor; whil • the western part of

:br H»l!espont bore the name of Lesser

* «ai the district to the south of the latter  
'Tun (Seyfcu, p. 35.) In the latest times

Lt-*z tcipirr, that is, nnder the Christian

^ tie rr«ucr part of Mysia was contained

k> pwiaw bearing the name of Hellespontus,

A* nathrro diatricta as Car as Troas belonged

«f Asia. (HierocL p. 658.)

PS» part of Mysia is a mountainous

"•ox traversed by the north-western

4 M-nat Taurus, which gradually slope

Aejrau, the main branches being

| Mount Ida and Monnt Temkus. The country is

also rich in rivers, though most of them are small,

and not navigable; but, notwithstanding its abun­

dant supply of water in rivers and lakes, tho

country was in ancient times less productive than

other provinces of Asia Minor, and many parts of it

were covered with marshes and forests. Besides the

ordinary products of Asia Minor, and the excellent

wheat of Assns (Strab. xv. p. 725), Mysia was cele­

brated for a kind of stone called lapis assius (aap-

K<xpiym), which had the power of quickly consum­

ing the human body, whence it was used for coffins

(sarcophagi), and partly powdered and strewed over

dead bodies. (Dioscorid. v. 141; Plin. ii. 98,

xxxvi. 27; Steph. B. ». v. "Aoaos.) Near the coasts

of the Hellespont there were excellent oyster beds.

(Plin. xxxii. 21; Catull. xviii. 4; Virg. Georg.

i. 207; Lncan, ix. 959; comp. Theophrast. Hut.

Plant, i. 6. 13.)

The country of Mysia was inhabited by several

tribes, as Phryginns, Trojans, Aeolians, and Mysians;

but we must here confine ourselves to the Mysians,

from whom the country derived its name. Mysians

are mentioned in the Iliad (ii. 858, x. 430, xiii. 5),

and seem to be conceived by the poet as dwelling

on the Hellespont in that part afterwards called

Mysia Minor. Thence they seem, during the period

subsequent to the Trojan War, to have extended

themselves both westward and southward. (Stnib.

xii. p. 665.) Herodotus (vii. 74) describes them as

belonging to the same stock as the Lydians, with

whom tliey were always stationed together in the

Persian armies (Herod, i. 171), and who probably

spoke a language akin to theirs. Strabo (vii.

pp. 295, 303, xii. pp. 542, 564, &c.) regards them

as a tribe that hud immigrated into Asia from

Europe. It is difficult to see how these two state­

ments are to be reconciled, or to decide which of

them is more entitled to belief. As no traces of the

Mysian language have come down to us, we cannot

pronounce a positive opinion, though the evidence, so

far as it can be gathered, seems to be in favour of

Strabo's view, especially if we bear in mind the

alleged identity of Mocsians and Mysians. It is,

moreover, not quite certain as to whether the

Mysians in Homer are to be conceived as Asiatics or

as Europeans. If this view be correct, the Mysians

must have crossed over into Asia either before, or

soon after the Trojan War. Being afterwards pressed

by other immigrants, they advanced farther into the

country, extending in the south-west as far as Per-

gamum, and in the east as far as Catacecaumene.

About the' time of tho Aeolian migration, they

founded, under Teuthras, the kingdom of Teuthrania,

which was soon destroyed, but gave the district in

which it had existed its permanent name. The

people which most pressed upon them in the north

and east seem to have been the Bithynians.

In regard to their history, the Mysians shared tho

fate of all the nations in the west of Asia Minor.

In B.C. 190, when Antiochus was driven from

Western Asia, they became incorporated with the

kingdom of Pergamus; and when this was made

over to Rome, they formed a part of tho province of

Asia. Respecting their national character and insti­

tutions we possess scarcely any information; but if

wo may apply to them that which Posidonius (in

Strab. vii. p. 296) states of the European Moesians,

they were a pious and peaceable nomadic people,

who lived in a very simple manner on the produce of

their flocks, and had not made great advances in

c c 3

