408 NEAPOLIS. NEAPOLIS.

a more recent settlement than some one previously

existing in tlie same neighbourhood; and that this

did not refer merely to I he parent city of Cumae, is

proved by the fact that we find mention (though

only at a comparatively late period) of a place called

PaIAEPOMS or "the Old City." (Liv. viii. 22.)

lint the relations between the two are very obscure.

No Greek author mentions PaUepolis, of the existence

of which we should be ignorant were it not for Livy,

who tells us that it was not far from the site of Nea-

polis. From the passage of Strabo above cited, it

seems clear that this was the original settlement

of the Cumaean colonists; and that the name of

Neapolts was given to the later colony of Chalci-

dtans and others who established themselves on a site

at no great distance from the former one. A dif­

ferent version of its history, but of much more

dubious authority, is cited by Philargyrius from

the historian J,utatius, according to which the Cu-

maeans abandoned their first COioDT from an apprc-

hension lest it should eclipse the parent city, but were

commanded by an oracle to restore it, and gave to

the colony thus founded anew the name of Neapotis.

(Philargyr. ad Georg, iv. 564.) The original name

of Pataeuolis (which obviously could not be so de-

signuted until after the foundation of the new city)

appears to have been Parthenope (1'lin. hi. 5. s. 9;

Philariryr. I.e.}, a name wliich is used by the Iioman

poets as a poetical appellation of Neapolis. (Virg.

Georg. iv. 564; Ovid, Met. xv. 711, &c.) Sle-

phanua, of Byzantium notices Parthenope as a city

of Opicia (the ancient designation of Campania);

but it is singular enough that both he and Strabo

call it a colony of the Rhodians, without mentioning

either the Chaleidians or Cumaeans. (Steph. II.

s. v.; Strab. xiv. p. G54.) On the other hand, Ly-

cophroii alludes to the place where the Siren Par­

thenope was cast on shore, by the name of Fulcrum

(4»aA7)pou TVpffts, Lycophr. Ait*. 717); and Ste­

phanos also says that Phalernm was a city of

Opicia, the fame which was afterwards called Nea-

polis. (Stcidi. B. s. v. 4>a\r,poi:) The name of

Falernm has a Tyrrhenian or Pelasgie aspect; and

it is not improbable, as suggested by Abeken (Mtt-

Ul /fatten, p. 110), that there was originally a Tyr­

rhenian settlement on the spot. The legendary

connection of the Siren Parthenope with the site or

neighbourhood of Neapolis was well established, and

universally received; hence hionvsius designates the

city as the abode of Parthenope; and Strabo tells us

that even in his time her tomb was still shown

there, and games eelehrated in her honour. (Strab.

v. p. 246; Dionys. Per. 358; Eustath. ad loc.\

I'lin. iii. 5. s. 9.)

The site of the original settlement, or Old City

(Palaepolis), is nowhere indicated, but it seems most

probable that it stood on the hill of Pausilypui or

J'usilijut, a long ridge of moderate elevation, which

separates the bay of Pozzuoli or Baiae from that of

Naples itself. The new town, on the contrary, ad­

joined the river Setiethus, a small stream still called

the Sthcto, and must, therefore, have occupied the

tame site with the more easterly portion of the

modern city of NapUi, (Abeken, Mitiel Italien,

p. Ill; Niebuhr, vol. iii. p. 179.) The latter city

seems rapidly to have risen to great prosperity, and,

in great measure, eclipsed the older settlement; but j

it is clear from Livy that PaUepolis continued to

subsist by the side of the new colony, until they both

fell under the dominion of the Samnites. It does not

appt-ar that either the old or the new city was reduced

by force of arms by the Campnnian conqoerors-. tbej

scorn rather to have entered into a compromise will

them, and admitted a body of the Campanula ■

the rights of citizenship, as well as to a shire J'.ta

government. (Strab. v. p. 246.) But notwiuV

standing tins, the Greek element still greatly pe>

dominated; and both Palaepolis and Neapulis «*r*,

according to Livy, completely Greek cities at tat

time when they first came into contact with i; ■

nearly a century after the conquest of Campania I

the Sanmites. (Liv. viii. 22.)

On that occasion the Pal aepoli tans, who had bai

the temerity to provoke the hostility of Kome byis>

cursions uj>on the neighbouring Campanians.alMWS1

at the declaration of war which followed (a.c.3iftX

admitted within their walls a garrison of 2001

trooj* from Nola, and 40<)O Sammies; and

thus enabled to withstand the arms of the coasts

PublUius Philo, who occupied a post between tb« tat

cities so as to prevent all communication betw

them, while he laid regular siege to Falaepi

This was protracted into the following year; bolt*

length the Palaepolitans became weary of their?

nite allies, and the city was betrayed into the 1

of the Romans by Charilaus and Nymphius,

the chief citizens." (Liv. viii. 22, 23. 25, 26.)

Neapolitans would appear to have fuiluwed their en

ample without offerjng any resistance; and thisetj

cumstanee may explain the fact that while Put!

celebrated a triumph over the Palaepolitam I

viii. 26; Fast. Capit.), the Neapolitans were ado

to peace on favourable terms, and their tint

secured by a treaty (foedus St ajxtlitan um. Lir.lv

From this time all mention of Palaepolis du

from history. Livy tells us tliat the chief an

which appears to have been previously enjc

the older city, was now transferred to Xcapubs; I

it is probable that the former town sank

into insignificance, while the community or'

lus" was merged in that of Neapolis. Soc

was this the case, that Dionysius, in relating the*

mencement of this very war, speaks only of the Mi

politans (Dionys. Arc. Leg. pp. 2314—2319);^f

Livy, evidently following the language of the «■

annalists, distinguishes them from the Palaepoiiafl

though he expressly tells us that they formed.*

one community (•' duabus urbibus populus ideal

bitabat," Liv. viii. 22).

From this time Ncapolis became, in fact, ti

dependency of Rome, though retaining the

able title of an allied state (futdtrata ciritaMfi)

enjoying the protection of the powerful

with but a small share of the burdens usually!

upon its dependent allies. So favourable,

was the condition of the Neapolitans under I

treaty that, at a later period, when ail tbe <

Italy obtained the Iioman franchise, they, as ws

the Heracleans, were long unwilling to aocefS] (

proffered boon. (Cic. pro Balb. 8,24.) Hence it

wonder that they continued throughout faithful ti

Roman alliance, though more than one* threat

by hostile armies. In B. c. 260, Pyrrtius .11 \ ttm

the walls of Neapolis, with the view of mainsaj Jj

self master of the city, but withdrew without)

complishing his purpose (Zonar. viii. 4); ata]

the Second Punic War. Hannibal, though

peatedry ravaged its territory, was deterred

strength of its fortifications from aasaUin

itself. (Liv. ixiii. 1, 14, 15, xxiv. la)

other maritime allies of Home, the Neapolic

tinned to furnish ships and sailors for the

