MKGARA. MKGARA. 311

time with Hum (b. o. 735), and be/ore Syracuse.

(xpin.Ch.S71—276; Strab. vi. p. 269.) It is

impossible to reconcile the two accounts, but that

of Thucydides is probably the most trustworthy.

According; to this the foundation of Megara may

probably be placed about 726 B. c Of its earlier

history we have scarcely any information, but it

would appear to have attained to a flourishing con­

dition, as 100 years after its foundation it sent out,

in its turn, a colony to the other end of Sicily, where

it founded the city of Selinus, which was destined

to rise to far greater power than its parent city.

(Tbuc vi. 4; Scymn. Ch. 291; Strab. vi. p. 272.)

Nothing more is known of Megara till the period

of its destruction by Gelon of Syracuse, who, after

a long siege, made himself master of the city by a

capitulation; but, notwithstanding this, caused the

bulk of the inhabitants to be sold into slavery, while

he established the more wealthy and noble citizens

at Syracuse. (Herod, vii. 156; Thucvi. 4.) Among

the persons thus removed was the celebrated comic

poet Epichamius, who had received his education at

Megan, though not a native of that city. (Suid.

». >•. '£»:x<"e>-'3i; Diog. Laert viii. 3.) According to

Thucydides, this event took place 245 years after

the foundation of Megara, and may therefore be

placed about 481 B, c. It is certain that Megara

never recovered its power and independence. Thu­

cydides distinctly alludes to it as not existing in his

brae as a city, but repeatedly mentions the locality,

co the aea-coast, which was at that time occupied

by tin Syracusans, but which the Athenian general

1 amachus proposed to make the head-quarters of

their fleet (Thuc. vi. 49, 96.) From this time

we meet with repeated mention of a place named

Megan or Megaris (Scyl. p. 4. § 6), which it seems

impossible to separate from Uybla, and it is pro-

table that the two were, in fact, identical. [These

notices are discussed under Htbua, No. 2.] The

site of this later Megara or Hybla may be fixed,

with little doubt, at the mouth of the river Alabus

(CVmtaro); but there seems much reason to suppose

that the ancient city, the original Greek colony, was

situated almost close to the remarkable promontory

tow occupied by the city of Agosta or Auffusla*

It k difficult to believe that this position, the port

of which b at least equal to that of Syracuse, while

the peninsula itself has the same advantages as that

ofOrtygia, should have been wholly neglected in

ancient times; and such a station would have ad­

mirably served the purposes for which Lamachus

urred upon his brother generals the occupation of

the vacant site of Megara. (Thuc. vi. 49.) [E.H.B.]

MK'GAKA (vtt Mryapa, Megara -orutn, some­

times Megara -ae: the territory i) Meyapir, sometimes

71 Mryoftin}, sc. yij: Etk. Mtyaptvs, Megarensis;

Adj. Mryapucer), a city in Greece Proper.

I. SlTUATIOH.

The city of Megara is situated rather more than

a mile frum the Saronic gulf, in a plain about 6 or

7 miles in length, and the same in breadth, bounded

to the westward by the range of the Gerancian

mountains, to the eastward by the range which

terminates in the mountains called Kerata or the

Hams.and to the south by the sea; while on the north

• The modern city of this name dates only from

th» thirteenth century, being founded in 1229 by

It* emperor Frederic II., from whom it derives its

name.

the plain loses itself in a gradual ascent The city

stood on a low hill with a double summit, on each of

which there was an acropolis, one named Caria

(Ku|):o), and the other Alcathok (AAicaeo7)),

the former probably being on the eastern, and the

latter on the western height, upon which the

modern village is chiefly situated. Immediately

below the city was a port-town named Nisaea

(Ndraia nnd Ni<raia), the port being formed by an

island called HlKOA (MiKtea). The city was con­

nected with its port-town by Long Walls

II. History.

There were two traditions respecting the early

history of Megara, According to the Megarians,

the town owed its origin lb-Car, the son of Phoroneus,

who built the citadel called Caria and the temples

of Demeter called Megara, from which the place

derived its name. (Paus. i. 39. § 5, i. 40. § 6.)

Twelve generations afterwards Lelex came from

Egypt and gave the inhabitants the name of Leleges,

whence we read in Ovid (J/efc vii. 443): —

"Tutns ad Alcathoen. Lelegeia moenia, limes

Composito Scirone patet."

Lelex was succeeded by his son Cleson, the latter

by his son Pylas, whose son Sciron married the

daughter of Pandion, king of Athens. But Nisus,

the son of Pandion, disputing with Sciron the pos­

session of Megara, Aeacus, who had been called in

as arbiter, assigned the kingdom to Nisus and his

posterity, and to Sciron the command in war.

Nisus was succeeded by Megareus, the son of

Poseidon, who had married Iphinoe, the daughter of

Nisus; and Megareus was followed by his son

Alcathons, who built the other citadel named after

him. Such was the account of the Megarians,

who purposely suppressed the story of the capture

of their city by Minos during the reign of Nisus.

(Paus. i. 39. §§ 5, 6, i. 41. § 5.)

The other tradition, which was preserved by the

Boeotians and adopted by the rest of Greece,

differs widely from the preceding one. In the reign

of Pylas, Pandion being expelled from Athens by

the Metionidae, fled to Megara, married the daughter

of Pvlas, and succeeded his father-in-law in the

kingdom. (Paus. i. 39. § 4; Apollod. iii. 15.)

The Metionidae were in their turn driven out of

Athens; and when the dominions of Pandion were

divided among his four sons, Nisus, the youngest,

obtained Megaris. The city was called after him

Nisa (Nitro), and the same name was given to the

port-town which he built. When Minos attacked

Nisus, Megareus, son of Poseidon, came from

Onchestus in Boeotia to assist the latter, and was

buried in the city, which was called after him

Megara. The name of Nisa, subsequently Nisaea,

was henceforth confined to the port-town. (Paus.

i. 39. §§ 4, 6.) But even the inhabitants of Megara

were sometimes called Nisaei, to distinguish them

from the Megarians of Sicily, their colonists (Theocr.

Id xii. 27.) Through the treachery of his daughter

Scylla, Nisus perished, and Minos obtained posses­

sion of the city, and demolished its walls. They

were subsequently restored by Alcalhuus, son of

Pelops, who came from Elis. In this work he was

assisted by Apollo. (Paus. i. 41. § 6; Theogn.

771; Ov. Met. viii. 14.) It was further related,

that Hyperion, the son of Agamemnon, was the last

king of Megara, and that after his death a democra­

