PYLUS. PYLUS. 683

IV Xmrmo and its

maps of which the former con-

localitj. and the latter the fortress of

neighbourhood on

MAP or THE BAY OF PYLUS.

J- *nt».nerla (SpAn/ia).

K- IVui on tbe prutnootory Corjphailura (Old Xa-

i mi ).

IT Tae meoVrn .Vdrarl«w.

D. JU7 of Ptliu ( Buy of Samino).

fat chief discrepancy between the account of

■7 Liea and tbc existing state of the cotu>t is

M b tbe width of the two entrances into the

d A'asortao. the northern entrance being about

1 nroa wide, and the southern not less than bc-

• 1100 sad MOO yards; whereas Thucydides

n ii» former admitted only two triremes abreast,

um iatter only eight or nine. Therefore not only

» actual width of the two entrances very much

carload at stated by Thucydides, but this width

a at the proportion of the number of triremes;

1 are eat aa 8 or 9 to 2, but as 17 to 2. To ex-

1 that difficulty CoL Leake supposes that Thu-

Ba wa* nuainfonm-d respecting the breadth of

—nrfWT to tbe harbour. But to this a satis­

fy reply ia given by Dr. Arnold, that not onlr

o «amou false estimate of distances have

airs a passage of nearly 1400 yards in width

aa » narrow as to admit only eight or nine

• airswt, bat still less could it have been sup­

s' pssilili to choke up snch a passage by a

biu I me of ships, lying broadside to broad-

, »avh Thucydides tells us tbe Lacedaemonian

aanaen intended to do. Moreover the northern

Maw has bow a shoal or bar of sand lying across

a wbch there are not more than 18 inches

■■Bar; whereas the narrative of Thucydides im-

1 'ia: there was sufficient depth of water for

■as to sad in unobstructed. The length of

17 stadia, which Thucydides ascribes to Sphacteria,

does not agree with the actual length of Sphagia,

which is 25 stadia. Lastly Thucydides, speaking

of the bay of Print, calls it " a harbour of con-

MAI" OF PTI.US AND ITS IMMEDIATE

NEIGHBOURHOOD.

A. Pyloi (Old Xapar'tno).

B. Sphacteria (Spkagia).

C. Lagoon of Osmyn-Aga.

1). Port of foidkg- K oJ,

E. Bay of Pylus (Bay of Surarino).

a. Cave of Hermes.

6. Small channel connecting the lagoon 0/ Osmyn-

Aga with the Bay of Savai'tno.

siderable magnitude" (Ai/t«Vi ovri ov omnptp); an

expression which seems strange to be applied to the

spacious Bay of Aaron'no, which was not only the

largest harbour in Greece, but perfectly unlike the

ordinary harbours of the Greeks, which were always

closed artificially at the mouth by projecting moles

when they were not sufficiently land-locked by

nature.

In consequence of these difficulties Dr. Arnold

raised the doubt whether the island now called

Sphagia be really the same as the ancient Sphacteria,

and whether the Bag of Savarinc be the real har­

bour of Pylus. He started the hypothesis that the

peninsula, on which the ruins of Old Nararino

stand, is the ancient island of Sphacteria con­

verted into a peninsula by an accumulation of sand

at either side; and that the lagoon of Osmyn-Aga,

on its eastern side was the real harbour of Pylus,

into which there was an opening on the north, at

the port of Voidhv-Kilid, capable of admitting two

triremes abreast, and another at the south, where

there is still a narrow opening, by which eight

nine triremes may have entered the lagoon f

<n from the"

I

