NIGEIRA. 429 XILI TALUDES.

aV XI m tut. Clindian rould not have intended

fctaa rinr, the Gait of Pliny (t. 1), at the foot of

■ti!ai.ud a desert of black rand and burnt

a»»(.Vs«.'). at which Paullinns arrived in a few

jsanvy (tun the maritime part of Mauretania;

is it a probable that be may have intended,

al&exof Ptolemy, but the Nigeir. The tcr-

aa Ger wis pr> bah]y a generic word, applied

ri mwi ud irateni in N. Africa, aa well as

pah Si; both were probably derived from the

tk, mi came through the Phoenicians to the

fat By a not tuinalnral error, the word became

*ith the epithet " Niger," and thus the  
iXigritae or Xigretes was synonymous with

k(tWBhck«); the real etymology of the name

IfcopUia the common belief of the Africans,

•9 tbt water* of their country flow to the

It'» from this ootioii of the identity of all

■am of S. Africa that Pliny received the

I smart of the Nile and Niger, from the

I Jaha of Nomidia. He reported that the

W its origin in a mountain of Lower Maure-

i wt <ar from the Ocean, in a stagnant lake

IXSi; that it flowed from thence through

'amwti, in which it was concealed for several

aWt it mppeaml in a great lake in Maure-

Caaa-wnsu; that it was again hidden for

f am in deserts; and that it rose again in the

■efta* Sigris, which river, after having sepa-

ttiei from Aetbiopia, and then flowed through

(Ho of Aetbiopia, at length became the

It*tit Nile called Astapos. The same fable,

i ntbsat the Nigeir being mentioned, is

I to by Strabo (xrii p. 826; tin up. Vitrnv.

} It); while Mela (iii. 9. § 8) adds that the

ks source was also called Dara, so that

which now bears the name EUDhara

wan to be the stream which was the reputed

■■sat of the Nile. The Niger of Pliny was

weaaVfeat river, both in its nature and po-

law the Ger of the same author. It was situ-

^BicVef the great desert on the line separating

^waa Aethiopia; and its magnitude and pro­

of sack at the hippopotamus and crocodile,

w> taadt to correspond to any of the small

f<wa Atlas. Neither do these swell at the

a*a as the Nile, being fed, not by tropical

I b greatest quantity near the summer

wB by the waters of the maritime ridges,

■sat abandant in winter. The Niger is

by the Geographer of Ravenna, nor

stO the work of Joannes Leo Africanus

Hear—which was written at Rome, and

at Latin, a.m. 1556. Though his work is

in being the only account extant of the

sf the Negro empires of 5iiddn, yet he is

this point, as though he had failed on

Timimttm; be declares that the stream

» t» the E, as it is known to do, but

is Gmim or Jme. This mistake led

a> kek fur its estuary in tbe Sentgnl,

awl ho Grade. The true course of the

has now been traced to its mouth, con-

SawaaroU of the ancients as to the great

thrr tmnorndv describe aa flowing from

[E. B.J.]

NlGKITAE.]

US, Nigropolltrm, or Nigropullo, in

la plai n! by the Tbeodosian Table on

■Crotram Batavorum (/-estfeji) to No-

( Viavywea). The distance is

11 from Albiniana (Alfen), ascending the Rliine.

Ukert (Galium, p. 533) quotes a Dutch author, who

says that there is a village near WotriUn still

called Zwarte Kuikenlnmrt. (D'Anville, Xotice,

#tf [G. L.]

NIGBI'TAE, NIGRE'TES (Nrypmu, Strab. ii.

p. 131, xvii. p. 826; Ptol. iv. 6. § 16; Agathem.

ii. 5; Mela, i. 4. § 3, iii. 10. § 4; Plin. v. 8;

Ntyprjres, Strab. xvii. p. 828; Dionys. v. 215;

Stepli. B.), an African tribe who with the Pharusii

were said to have destroyed the Tyrian settlements

on the coast of the Atlantic, and though adjacent

to the W. Aethiopians, were distant only thirty

journeys from Linx or Lixus (El-Ara'isfi). Strabo,

as it appears, had no knowledge, or, at least, placed

no confidence, in any information which may have

reached him as to the countries more to the S. than

Fezz&n. Bat if he was so ignorant of Libya, and

particularly of the position of the \V. Aethiopians

(comp. p. 839), no great weight can be attached to

his testimony, that the Nigritae and Pharusii, whom

he expressly states to have been near those Aethio­

pians, were only thirty journeys from Lixus, par­

ticularly when he accompanies the remark with the

doubtful word <paa\, and with his marvellous stories

about the productions of Maurctania. Ptolemy {I.e.')

places them on the N. of the river Nigcir, from

which they took their name. It may be inferred,

therefore, that they are to be sought in the interior

between the Quorra or Djolibd and the Sahara in

the Biledu-l-Suddn. Their chief town was called

Nigeika (Nlyupa fxr)Tpovo\is, Ptol. iv. 6. § 27):

the Nigritis Lacus (Nrypirtj Afft^77, § 14) may

be identified with the lake Dibbeh to the S\V. of

Timbuktu. [E. B. J.J

NIGRINLA/NA. [Candidiaxa.]

NIGRITIS LACUS. [Nigritae.]

NIGKUS. [Mogrus.]

NILI PALUDES (at toD N«Uov Ai/mu, Ptol.

iv. 9, § 3; Strab. xvii. p. 786) were described by

the ancient geographers as two immense lagoons,

which received the first floods of the periodical rains

that from May to September fall upon the Abys­

sinian highlands, and swell all the rivers flowing

northward from that table-land. From these lagoons

the Astapus (Bahr-el-Azrek, Blue Hirer) and the

Bahr-et-Abiad, or White Hirer, respectively derived

their waters; and since they were the principal

tributaries of the Nile, the lakes which fed them

were termed the Nilotic Marshes. The ancients

placed the Nili Palndes vaguely at the foot of the

Luuae Montes ; and the exploring party, sent by the

emperor Nero, described them to Seneca the philo­

sopher as of boundless extent, covered with floating

weeds, and containing black and slimy water, im­

passable either by boats or by wading. There is,

however, some probability that this exploring party

saw only the series of lagoons produced by the level

and sluggish stream of the White Hirer, since the

descriptions of modern travellers in that region ac­

cord closely with Seneca's narrative (ATM. Quaegt.

vi. 8). The White Hirer itself, indeed, resembles

an immense lagoon. It is often from five to seven

miles in width, and its banks are so low as to bo

covered at times with slime to a distance of two or

three miles from the real channel. This river, as

less remote than the Abyssinian highlands from the

ordinary road between Syene and the S. of Men*

(aSeiwwwr), is more likely to have fallen under the

notice of Nero's explorers ; and the extent of slimy

water overspread with aquatic plants, wrresponds

