riCTAVI. 629 PIERES.

jtt (Mutao), on opposite sides of the valley of

Huwr (I'hiaili); Seftemteda (S. Severitto),

a the uffa vulley of the J'oiema; Tueia, on the

,Vt lasJt ef the tame stream, near the modern town

i Tnja; ui Ujcixa, en its right hank, not fur

:rat Hacmla. The site of PAU8ULAK(Pausulani,

I in.) i> fael by Holstenius at Monte delT Olmo,

uj thu of PollenTla (Pollentini, Id.) ut Monte

Hfimi, all in the same neighbourhood; but these

»! kle&lificatnu are merely conjectural.

IVrntim itu traversed by a line of highroad,

■ J.ii Uknred the line of the coast from Ancona to

iinim, where it united with the Via Valeria;

■a* iti more direct communications with Rome were

»v»ml hi the Via Salaria, which crossed the Apen-

ua dirst from Iuterocrea by Falacrinum to Ascu-

ha, ud thence to the Adriatic Further to the

arth, the, a branch of the Via Flaminia, quitting

u* nns hue of that great road at Nuceria, crossed

0* oscnl ridge of the Apennines by Prolaqueam to

Spjiraifedt in the valley of the Potentia, and thence

Txnki by Treia and Auximum to Ancona. Be­

ads theat more importaiit lines of road, the Tabula

*4ictft (vo eras lines: the one leading from Auxi-  
.] isj by Kicina and L'rbs Salvia to Asculum; the

<hs- torn Asculum to Firmum, and its port Cas-

'r^xa Hrmanutn. The extremely hilly and broken

'Lxir.a tA the country renders the determination of

•snow along these lines of road very uncertain;

iii tk? whine district is given in the Tabula in so

"eiavd a manner that little reliance can be placed

m 'a soiAoriiy. [E. U. B.]

NCTAVI.* [Pictoses.]

flCTL Tlie names of the Picti and Scoti ap-

*r«ly in late writere, by whom they are spoken  
'u two allied pei-file. Tho Picts seem to have

<-s Jmtical wi:h the ancient Caledonians ('Caldo-

tio-WMi^wePictormn, silvae etpalndes," Enmen.

fba.n. "X and dwelt K. of the Firth of Forth

[Ida, B. KocL i. 1). Ammianus Marcellinus re-

•wreu (he Krti as divided, in the time of the

■P*w Constant, into two tribes, the Dicalidonae

a» Ver4&rione>, and as committing fearful ravages

'cvtioa with the Attacotti and Scotti (xxvji.

>|4) Their ethnological relations have been

*■-■.» <£wnased [Buitamjucae Lnsilak, \Tol. I.  
The name of Picti, or painted, is com-

*appu«d to be derived from their custom of  
'J>rir bodies, and would thus be only a trans-

fc> lie British word Brith, signifying anything

l ^,»aj which,according to Camden(Gen. Deter.

'':>'!. X U tbe root of the name Briton. Such

1 r <~*±f.j favours the notion that the Picts were

i . race; bat on this point nothing

put on be affirmed. (Comp. Amm. Man-, xx. I,

*■*: Bed*, A EecL iii. 4, v. 21.) [T.H.D.]  
ITCTOSES (nfirrwej), and, at a later period,

Hivi. were a Gallic nation, south of the Loire

I » the coast of the Atlantic. Ptolemy (ii. 7.

I) funs them in Celtogalatia Aquitania, and

Pant two of their towns, Limonum or lemonum

Han) and Ratiatum. ** They occupy," be says,

Is er»t northern parts of Aquitania, those on the

f (Uctr), and on the sea." Strabo (iv. pp. 190,

H i ukes the Loir* the boundary between the

■»*••» wi !he Pictones. South of the Pictavi he

bw» li- Sutam, who extend to the Garonne.

Ik CwtM an mentioned by Caesar. He got

It fr» then (or hia war against the Veneti

l': i II). The Pictoiw-s joined Vercingetorix

la., a, when be was racing all Gallia against

Caesar. In B. c. 51 C. Caninius, a legatus of Caesar,

marched into the country of the Pictones to relieve

Lemonum, which was besieged by Duninacus (B. G.

viii. 26). [Lemonum.]

Lucan (i. 436) says that the Pictones wero

"immunes," or paid no taxes to the Romans:—

"Pictones immunes subigunt sua rura."

His authority is not worth much; and besides that,

this verse and the four verses which follow aro

probably spurious. (Notes in Oudendorp's edition of

Lucan.)

The territory of the Pictones was bounded on the

east by the Turones and Bituriges Cubi. It cor­

responded to the diocese of I'oitiert. [G. L.]

PICTO'iNIUM PROMONTO'RIUM, as it is now

generally written, but in Ptolemy (ii. 7. § 1) Pec-

tonium (n^K-roWr ixpoy), is placed by him on the

coast of Gallia Aquitania, between the mouth of the

river which he names Canentelus [Carantonls]

and the port Secor or Sicor. It is impossible to de­

termine what point of land is Pectonium. D'Anrille

supposes it to be L'Aiguilhm near the mouth of the

Sevre Niortaise,; and Gossellin takes it to be La

Pomte de Boigvinet. [G. L.]

PIDA (niSa), a town in Pontus Galaticus, on

the road leading from Amasia to Keocaesareia.

(Ptol. v. 6. §9; Tab. I'cut., where it is called

Pidae.) [L. S.]

PIENGI'TAE (niery?™. Ptol. Ui. 5. § 20),

a people in European Sarmatia, supposed by Schafa-

rik to be the inhabitants of the river /Vena, which

falls into the Pripjat near Pinsk (Slaicuche Alter-

thumer, vol. i. p. 207.)

Pl'ERA. [ClERlUM.]

PI'ERES (Ilifpts), a Thracian people, ocenpying

the narrow strip of plain land, or low hilt, between

the mouths of the Peneius and tho Haliacmon, at

the foot of the great woody steeps of Olympus.

(Thuc. ii. 99; Strab. TU. p. 331, Fr. 22, ix. p. 410;

Lit. xliv. 9.) This district, which, under the name

of Piebia or Pieris (riieplo, riieois), is men­

tioned in the Homeric poems (IL xiv. 225), was, ac­

cording to legend, the birthplace of the Muses

(Hesicid. Theoij. 53) and of Orpheus, the father of

song. (Apoll. Argon, i. 23.) When this worship

was introduced into Boeotia. the names of the moun­

tains, grots, and springs with which this poetin

religion was connected, were transferred from the N.

to the S. Afterwards the Piereswere expelled from

their original seats, and driven to the N. beyond tho

Strymon and Mount Pangaeus, where they formed a

new settlement. (Herod, vii. 112; Thuc. L c.) The

boundaries which historians and geographers give to

this province vary. In the systematic geography nf

Ptolemy (iii. 13. § 15) the name is given to the

extent of coast between the mouths of the Ludias

and the Haliacmon. Pieria was bounded on the \\.

from the contiguous district of the Thessalian Per-

rhaebia by the great chain of Olympus. An oflshoU

from Olympus advances along the Pierian plain, in a

N \V. direction, as far as the ravine of the Haliacmon,

where the mountains are sejiaratcd by that chasm in

the great eastern ridge of Northern Greece from

the portion of it anciently called Bcnnius. Tho

highest summit of the Pierian ringc called Pikrus

Mons (Plin. iv. 15; comp. Pausan. ix. 29. §3;

x. 13. § 5) rises about 8 miles to the N. of Via-

kholivailho, and is a conspicuous object in all the

I country to the E. It would seem that there was a

city called Pikkia (flifpfo: Eth. ni«j>i6ri|fr-"

