•SOD OSMIDA.

OSSET.

of the Osi^mii to the northern coast of Baste Brr.~

tonne, though there are the strongest reasons for

thinking that they occupied the extremity of the

same continent in all its breadth and that the diocese

(if Quirnper was a part of the territory as well as the

diocese of Leon." D'Anville observes that there is

no part, of ancient Gaul the geography of which is

more obscure. [ G. I-j

O'SMIDA ('OtTfifta, Soyl. p. IS), a district of

Crete, which Mr. Pash ley's map places at the

sources of the Mcf/dlo-poUauo, (Hock, Kreta, vol.

i. p. .196.) [E. B J.]

O'SPHAGUS, a branch of the river Erigon, in

I.yncestis, upon which the consul Sulpicius pitched

his camp in the campaign of B.C. 200 (Liv. xxxi.

39); perhaps the same as the Sckemnitzn, an

affluent of the Erigon, which falls into it to the N.

of Bitolia. [E. B.J.]

OSQUIDATES, one of the copies of Aquitania

mentioned by Pliny (iv. 10). He mentions Oso,ui-

dates Montani anil Liquidates Campestres, but lie

enumerates many names between the two, from which

we may roncli-.de that the Campestres did not border

on the Montani,for if ihey had, it is probable that he

would have enumerated the Campestres immediately

after the Montani instead of placing between them

the names of eleven peoples. Beside this, we must

look for the Montani on the north side id" the Pyrenees

and in the valleys of the Pyrenees, and the Campes­

tres in the low country of Aquitania. There are no

means for determining the position of either the

Montani or the Campestres, except from the resem­

blance between the ancient and the modern names in

this part of Gallia, which resemblance is often very

great. Tims D'Anville supposes that the Omndates

Montani may have occupied the valley of Ossait,

which extends from the foot of the Pyrenees to

Oleron, on a branch of the A dour. This is pro­

bable enough, but his attempt to rind a position for

the Campestres is unsuccessful. [G. [,.]

OSRHOE'XE, a small district in the NW. corner

of Mesopotamia (taken in its most extended sense),

whirl) there is some reason for supposing would be

rn tp correctly written Orrhoene. It does not appear

in any writer earlier than the times of the Anto-

nines, and is not therefore mentioned by either

Straho or Ptolemy. Procopius states that it de­

rived its name from a certain (Woes, who ruled

there in former times (VYr>\ i. 17); and Dion Cas-

sius declares that the name of the man who be­

trayed the Roman army under Crassus was Ab^arus

the Osroenian (xl. 19; see for the same name. Ixviii.

18, and lxxvii. 12.) Acain, Herodian calls the

people who dwelt in those parts Osroeni (iii. 9, iv.

7, vii. 1). Ammianus writes the name Osdroene

(xiv. 3, 8, xxiv. 1). The name prevailed in the

country as late as the seventh century. (Hierocl.

p. 713.) In the Notitia lmperat. Osroene was

placed under a "Praeses Provinciae,'' and appears

to have been sometimes included in Mesopotamia,

sometimes kept separate from it. (See .Justinian,

XotiL < it. § 11 ; Joan. Malalas, xi. p. 274, ed.

Bonn; Xo, is. tfo Epoch, ii. p. 110.) It is most

likely that the correct form of tlie name is Orrhoene;

and that this is connected with the Mcwrovop^a of

Isidorus. (Stathm. Parik, \.\ and see Dion, Ixviii. 2,

for the name of Mannus. a chief of the Mesopotarnian

Arabs, who r;ave himself up to Trajan.) Not im­

possibly, the Oruros of Pliuv may rc:er to the same

district', (vi. 30, 119.) [Edkssa.] [V.J

OSSA ('Oaaa, Ptol. iii. 13. § 15), a town of the

Bisaltae. which, before the arnm'. -.

to the kingdom of Macedonia, moat hi" bra

place of some importance from the f*rt of pa

sessing an autonomous coinage, (Eckbel, toL l. ^

73.) It has been identified with Sokfo.i lureii

lage on the S. side of the Xigrita inflii'An. tw

some Hellenic remains are found on the rorranii

heights. Another ancient site at LoWw.alj

N. road from Serves to Saloniki, hu tbo dnai

be considered the represent.iiive of Oca. itvii

Xorth. Greece, vol. in. pp. 213, 233.) [I V

COIN OF OSSA.

OSSA ("Oaaa), a loft y mountain in Tb?^

the coast of Magnesia, separated f'om Olnnpwi

by the narrow vale of Tempe. Hence it wi

posed by the ancients that these tnotmtaiai

once united, and had l<ccn separated by u «

quake. (Herod, vii. 129; Strab. ii- pp. 43UJ

Lucan, vi. 347; Claudian, Jtnpt. Prostrp.5.1

Ossa is conical in form and has only <>v

Poly bin* mentions it as one of the higbof ■

tains in Greece (xxxiv. 10); but it U WiiWKt

lower tbati Olympus, arid according to

lower than I'eliun. (Ov. Fast. iii. 441.) Afl

tag to Dodwell, who speaks, however, «cW

conjecture, Ossa is about 5iMK) fret bijh. 1

south of Ossa rise1- Mt. Pel ion, and th* l*si &

the two mountains are united by a ta*

(Herod, vii. 129.) Olympus, oia, wcA \

ditfer greatly in character; and the c«w*

standing between the other two. is * ell cirt

with the broad majesty of Olympus, am! tl

tended outline of Pelion. The It-n^th of <*»

the coast is said by Straho to be SO lUdi* I

443). It is hardly necessary to altuie I

passages in tlie poets, in w hich Ossa b awd

alonir with Olympus and Pelion, in tbi"

piants and the p««d.v (Horn. Od. xi.312; Virf.i

i. 282, &c.) The modern name of is A~

(Holland. Trartls, &c. vol. ii. pp. 3. 9d. ^

Classical Tour, vol. ii. p. 106; Leak- Y.

Greece, vol. i. p. 434, vol. iv. pp.4ll.5W

zieres, Me moire sur U I\lion et f Out.

1853.)

2. A mountain in Elis near Olvmpia. |

p. 817. b.]

OSSADIAE ('OcradXtai). a people wh.^ i

the Panjoh al mc the banks of the Avsn

nab), and who surrendered themselves to A'1

the Great after the conquest of the Mam (.1

(Arrian, vi. 15.)

OSSARE'NE ('Orro-a^Hj, Ttol. t. 15- §

tjap-qvi), Intirp.), a canton of ArmeriU I

on the banks of the river Cyrus. S:.

{Mcin. sur V Armenie, Tol. i. p. 81) is *(

that it may lx- the same as the GoGJhl

Strata. [E. i

O.^SET, also called Julia Ct.n*UntU (I'in

a town of Baetica, on the ri^ht bank oi:

Baetis, ami opposite to Hispalis. It is p1*

modern & Juan dr Alfarueke, nrar Cart

Ciasta, w here there arc some K-rr.so

