176 LIBYA. LIBYA.

habitants the general name of Aethiopes, tlie dark

or black coloured men. Between u. o. 630—620.

Battus of Thera, being commanded by the oracle t«i

lead a colony into Libya, inquired anxiously " where

Libya was," although at that time the position of

Acgypt, and probably that of the Phoenician Car­

thage also, was well known to tlie Greeks. Hence

we may conclude that, in (Ik; 7th century n. c. the

name Libya, as the generic appellation of a continent

within sight of Sicily, and within a few days' sail

from Peloponnesus, was cither partially adopted by or

wholly unknown to the Greeks. The Phoenicians

were among the first explorers, as they were among

tlie earliest colonisers of Libya ; but they concealed

their knowledge of it with true commercial jealousy,

and oven as late as the Cth century b.c. interdicted

the Uoman and Etruscan mariners from sailing be­

yond the Fair Promontory. (Polyb. in. '22.) About

sixty years before the journey of Herodotus to

Aeirypt, i. e. it, c. 523, Cum by sea explored a portion

of thewesterndesert that lies beyond Klephantine; but

his expedition was too brief and disastrous to afford

any extension of geographical acquaintance with the

interior. Herodotus is the first traveller whose ac­

counts of Libya are in any way diStinct or to be

relied uj«»n ; and his information was probably de-

rived, in great measure, from the caravan guides

with whom he conversed at Memphis or Xaucratis in

the Delta.* By the term Libya, Herodotus under­

stood sometimes the whole of ancient Africa (iv. 42),

sometimes Africa exclusive of Aegypt (ii. 17, 18,

iv. 107). He defined its proper eastern boundary to

be the isthmus of Suez and the lied sea, in opposi­

tion to those who placed it along the western bank

of the Nile. In this opinion lie is supported by

Strabo(i. pp. 86,174)and Ptolemy (ii. 1. § 6, iv. 5*.

§ 47) ; and his description of the Groat Desert and

other features of the interior prove that his narrative

generally rests upon the evidence of travellers in that

region. The next step in discovery was made by the

Macedonian kings of Aegypt. They not only re­

quited gold, precious stones, ivory, ami aroiuatics,

for luxury and art, and elephants for their wars, but

were also actuated by a zeal for the promotion of

science. Accordingly, Ptolemy Philadelphia (l)iod. i.

37; Pliu. vi. 2lJ) and Ptolemy Euergetes (e. u. 283

—222) sent forth expeditions to the coast and

mouth id' the Red sea, and into the modern Nubia

Their investigations, however, tended more to ex­

tending acquaintance with the country between the

cataracts of the Nile and the straits of Hab-d-

Mtmdeb than to the examination of Western Libya.

About 200 years before our era, Kratosthcncs

described Libya, but rather as a mathematician than a

geographer. He defines it to be an acute angled

triangle, of which the base was the Mediterranean,

and the sides the Bed sea. on the east, and on the

west an imaginary line drawn from the Pillars of

Hercules to the Sinus Adulitanus.

The wars of Koine with < larthage, and the destruc­

tion of that city in It c. 14<>, tended considerably to

promote a clearer acquaintance with Libya Interior.

Poly bias, commissioned by his friend and commander,

Scipio Aemilianus, visited Aeirypt and many districts

of the northern coast of Africa, ami explored its

western id tores also, as fur as the river Bumbotus,

perhaps Cape Xon, lat. 28° where he found the

crocodile and hippojiotamus. Unfortunately, the

record of his journey has perished, although it was

extant in the 1st century A.D., and is cited by

Pliny (vi. 1) and Stephanos of Byzantium (s. iv

Tttttu'i-. TaG.ictKa, XaAxe?a, B;''("aiTFs; comp. G<*s*-

lin, Hecherches tur let Geographic <4ncictMe,tutn.iL

pp. 1—30).

The events of the Jugurthine War (a. c 111—

106) led the Romans further into the interior.

The historian Sallust, when praetor of Numidio,

arduously collected information respecting tii* in­

digenous races of Libya. He mentions the GaetuG

as the rude Aborigines, who fed on the flesh of wild

beasts, and on the roots of the earth. They dwelt

near the torrid zone ('* haud procul ab anioribiii"\

and their huts (mapalia) resembled inverted bat*.

In n. c. 24, Aelius Gall us conducted, by the eum-

mand of Augustus, an expedition into Aethiopia and

Nubia, and extended the knowledge of the ea-trni

districts. The difficulties of the road and the trea­

chery of his guides, indeed, rendered his attempt

unprosperous; but in the year following, Petrunioi

repuUed an inroad of the Aethiopians, and established

a line of military posts south of Klephantine (Miab.

xvii. p. 615; Dion Cass. liv. 6). In b. c. 19,

L. Cornelius Balbus attacked the Garamantes with

success, and ascertained the names at least of

many of their towns. (Flor. iv, 12 ; Plin. t. 75.)

The information then acquired was employed by

Strabo in his account of Libya. Asrain, in Xer>s

reign, an exploring party was desjeitched to lit

Abyssinian highlands, with a view of di>coTeriBj;

the .sources of the Kile. (Plin. vi. 32; Senec Sal

Quaest. vi. 8.)

But the Romans became acquainted with portion

of the Libyan desert, less through regular attempts

to penetrate it on either side, than from their de-sre

to procure wild beasts for the amphitheatre. Under

the emperors, especially, the passion fur exhibiting

rare animals prevailed; nor have we reason to suspect

that these were found in the cultivated northern

provinces, whence they must have been diivm by

the colonial herdsmen and fanners, even while Cy-

rene and Carthage were independent states. At tbi

secular games exhibited by the emperor Phiiip the

Arabian (a. d. 248), an incredible number of Libyan

wild beasts were slaughtered in the arena, and trie

Roman hunters who collected them must liavt Tittles

the Sahara at least, and the southern slope of Atlas:

nor, since the hippopotamus and the alligator are

mentioned, is it improbable that they even reaebfti

the banks of the Senegal.

Of all the ancient geographers, however, Claudius

Ptolemy, who flourished in the second century A Wi

displays the most accurate and various acquaintaon

with Libya Interior. Yet, with the works of oil

predecessors before him, the scientific labours of vw

Alexandrians, and the Roman surveys, Ptolemy p*

sessed a very inadequate knowledge of the form an.

extent of this continent. His tables «fc<.w that W

western coast had been explored as far as 11'

lat. N.; and he was aware of the approximate r»*i

tion of the Fortunate Islands (now the Canarie*)

since from them, or some point in them, he Cain

lutes all his eaMern distances or longitudes. H

was also Utter acquainted than any of his precurscn

with the eastern coast, and with the tracts wtiK

intervened between the left bank of the Nile *n

the Great Desert. He mentions an expedition cot

ducted by a Roman officer named Maternos, »h

setting forth from TrijxAi, advanced as far soutl

ward as the neighbourhood of the lake Tchad, an

perhaps, even of Timbue too. He has also ci"

with probable correctness, the position of a numb

of places in the interior, along a river which he ca.

