MEGAHA. 31.3 MEGARA.

ware admitted within the Long Walls by their friends

in Mt*gara, and after a siege of two days they took

Kisses-* Megara was saved by Brasidas, who ad­

vanced to the relief of the city with a large Pelo-

poannian force, and, after offering battle to the

Athenians, which they declined, was admitted

within the city. The aristocratical exiles were now

recalled, and a strict and exclusive oligarchy esta­

blished, which lasted for some time. (Time. iv. 66

—74.) A few months afterwards the Megarians

captured the Long Walls from the Athenians and

levelled them to the ground; but the Athenians

still continued to hold Nisaea and Minoa. (Time.

iv. 109.) In the trace concluded between the

Athenians and Peloponnesians in the following year,

it was settled that the line of demarcation between

the Athenians in Nisaea and Minoa, on one side,

and the Megarians and their allies in Megara, on

the other, should be the road leading from the gate

of Nisaea near the monument of Nisus to the Posei-

donium or temple of Poseidon, and from the latter in

a straight line to the causeway leading to Minoa.

(Thoc.iv. 117.)

From this time Megara is seldom mentioned in

Grecian history. Its prosperous condition at a later

period is extolled by Isocrates, who says that it pos­

sessed the largest houses of any city in Greece, and

that it remained at peace, though placed between

the Peloponnesians, Thebans, and Athenians. (Isocr.

A Pac. p. 183, ed. Steph.) Megara surrendered to

Philip after the battle of Chaeroneia. (Aelian,

V. U. vi. I.) After the death of Alexander it was

for some time in the power of Cassander; but his

garrison was expelled by Demetrius Poliorcetes, who

proclaimed the freedom of the city B.C. 307. (Diod.

ii. 46; Pint. Demttr. 9.) Subsequently it again

pu.*d into the hands of the Macedonian kings, but

it was united by Aratus to the Achaean League.

(Polvb. ii. 43.) In the war between the Achaean

League and the Romans, Megara surrendered to

MfkIIos without a contest. (Paus. vii. 15. § 11.)

It is mentioned by Sulpicius, in his well-known

letter to Cicero (md Fum. iv. 5), as one of the ruined

cities of Greece. It still existed in the time of

Strabo (ix. p. 393), and it was subsequently made a

Roman colony. (Plin. iv. 7. a. 11.) Pausanias

relates that it was the only city of Greece which

Hadrian refused to assist, on account of the murder

by iu inliabitanta of Anthetnocritus, the Athenian

herald (Paus. i. 36. § 3); but we learn from in­

scriptions that a new tribe at Megara was called

AiirianU, in honour of the emperor, and that Sabina,

the emperor's wife, was worshipped here under the

title of »« An^r,TTjp (Bockh, laser, vol. i. p. 566);

aad even Pausanias himself describes a temple of

Apollo of white marble, built by Hadrian (i. 42.

J iy. It continued to coin money under the Anto-

nrncs and subsequent emperors; and it appears in

tite Tabula Peuting. as a considerable place. In

the fifth century its fortifications were repaired by

I'i"eenes, an officer of the emperor Anastasius

(Chandler, Inter. Ant. 130); but from this time it

apprars to have rapidly sunk, and was frequently

plundered by the pirates of the Mediterranean.

Megara was celebrated on account of its philo­

sophical school, which was founded there by Ku-

* On this occasion Thucydides (iv. 66) calls  
Megan i) tr* »o>it, in contradistinction to the

pfft-ujwn. This expression cannot refer to the

■BDfolii of Megara, as some critics interpret it.

cleides, a disciple of Socrates.and which distinguished

itself chiefly by the cultivation of dialectics. The

philosophers of this school were called the Megarici

(oi MtyapiKol, Strab. ix. 393). It was also lets

creditably distinguished for its courtezans, who were

called Megarian Sphinxes. (Me^ooixol 3<piyyts,

Suid. t. v.; comp. Plaut. Peri. i. 3. 57.) The

Megarians were addicted to the pleasures of the

table. (Tertnll. Apolog. 39.) They had a bad

character throughout Greece, and were regarded

as fraudulent, perfidious, and ignorant; but they

may have owed much of this bad character to the

representations of their enemies, the Athenians.

(Aelian, V. If. xii. 56; Sehol. ad Aristoph. Pac.

248; Suid. s. v. Miyapiuv Sfioi ptpioos, i. e. con­

temptible people.) Of the Megarian gHmes and

festivals we have three kinds mentioned; the Dio-

clean, celebrated in honour of the hero Diocles

(Sehol. ad Theocr. xii. 28; Schol. ad Pmd. 01.

xiii. 155; Schol. ad Aristoph. Acharn. 774), the

Alcathoan, celebrated in honour of Alcathous, and

the Smaller Pythian, in honour of the Pythian

Apollo, whose worship was very ancient in Megara.

(Philostr. Vit. Soph. i. 3; Schol. ad Pmd. Nan.

v. 84, 01. xiii. 155; Krause, Die Pythien, Nemeen

und hthmien, p. 66.)

Dion Chrysostom (Orat. vi.) says that Megara

is one day's journey from Athens, and Procopius

{Bell. Vand. i. 1) makes it 210 stadia. According

to modern travellers the journey takes 8 hours.

(Dodwell, Classical Tour, vol. ii. p. 177.)

iii. topography op tiie cltt and its

Port-town.

Pausanias has given a particular description of

the public buildings of Megara (Paus. i. 40, seq.).

He begins his account with the aqueduct of Thea-

genes, which was supplied with water from the

fountain of the nymphs called Sithnides. The

aqueduct was remarkable for its magnitude and

numerous columns. Near it was an ancient temple,

containing a statue of Artemis Soteira, statues of

the twelve gods said to be by Praxiteles, and images

of the Roman emperors. Beyond, in the Olympieium,

or inclosure of Zeus Olympius, was a magnificent

temple, containing a statue of the god, which was

never finished, owing to the distress occasioned by

the Athenians in the Peloponnesian War. From

thence Pausanias ascended to the citadel, named

Caria, passing by a temple of Dionysus Nyctelius, a

sanctuary of Aphrodite Apostrophin, an oracle of

Night, and a roofless temple of Zeus Cronius.

Here, also, was the Megarum, or temple of Deineter,

said to have been founded by Car during his reign.

Below the northern side of the Acropolis Caria

was the tomb of Alcmcna near the Olympieium.

Hence Pausanias was conducted by his Megarian

guide to a place called Rhus ('Pots; comp. Plut.

Thes. 27), because the waters from the neighbouring

mountains were collected here, until they were

turned off by Theagenes, who erected on the spot

an altar to Achelous. It was probably this water

which supplied the fountain of the Sithnides. Near

this place was the monument of Hyllas; and not

far from the latter were temples of lsis, Apollo

Agraeus, and Artemis Agroteru, which was said to

have l>een dedicated by Alcathous after he had

slain the Cithaeronian lion. Below these were the

heroum of Pandion, and .the monuments of Hip-

polytc, queen of the Amazons, and Tercus, who

married l'rucne.

