8G ITALIA.

ITALIA.

tin1 Marsi (Cato, ap. Pn'scian. ix. 9); anil thorp

can be ii" doubt that the same relation subsisted be­

tween ill'.' two nations: but we are wholly in ttie

dark as to the origin of the Marsi themselves.

Several circumstances, however, combine to render it

probable that they were closely connected with the

Sabines, but whether as a distinct offset from that

jjenple, or tliat the two proceeded from one common

stuck, we have no means of determining. [Maiisi.]

The Frentaiii, on the other hand, are generally re-

pre-ented as a Samnite race; indeed, both they and

the Hirpini were so closely connected with the Sain-

nites, that they are often considered as forming only

a part of that people, though at other times they

figure un independent and separate nations. But

the traditions with regard to the establishment of

the Hirpini and the origin of their name [IIiupini],

seem to indicate that they were the result of a sepa­

rate migration, subsequent to that of the body of

the Sanmites. South of the Hirpini, again, the Lu-

eanians are universally descriU'd as a Samnite co­

lony, or rather a branch of the Samnites, who ex­

tended their conquering arms over the greater part

of the country called by the Greeks Oenotria, and

thus came into direet collision with the Greek colo­

nies on the southern coasts of Italy. [Magna

Ghakoia.] At the height of their power the Lu-

eauians even made themselves masters of the Iirut-

tian peninsula; and the subsequent revolt of the

liruttii did not clear that country of these SabelliaTi

invaders, the Brnttian people being apparently a

mixed population, made up of the Lueanian con­

querors and their Oenotrian serfs. [Uruttii ]

While the Samnites and their Lueanian progeny "ere

thus extending their power on the S. to the Sicilian

strait, they did not omit to make themselves masters

of the fertile plains of Campania, which, together

with the flourishing cities of Capua and Cumae, fell

into their hands between 440 and 4'20 it. c. [Cam­

pania.]

The dominion of the Sabellian race was thus esta­

blished from the neighbourhood of Ancona to the

southern extremity of Bruttiuin: but it must not be

supposed that throughout this wide extent the popu­

lation was become essentially, or even mainly, Sa-

bellian. That people appears rather to have been a

raee of conquering warriors ■ but the rapidity with

which they becume blended with the Osean ^>opula-

tioiis that tiny found previously established in some

parts at least of the countries they subdued, seems

to point to the conclusion that there was no very

wide dilVeieuee between the two. Even in Samniuin

itself (which probably formed their stronghold, and

where they were doubtless more numerous in pro­

portion) we know that they adopted the Oscan lan­

guage; and that, while the Romans speak of the

people and their territory as Sabellian, they designate

their speech as Oscan. (Liv. viii. 1, x. lit, 20.) In

like manner, we know that the Lueanian invaders

carried with them the same language into the wilds

of Bruttium; w here the double origin of the people

was shown at a late period by their continuing to

speak both Greek and Oscan. (best. p. 35.) The

relations between these Sabellian conquerors and the

Oscan inhabitants of Central Italy render it, on the

whole probable, that the two nations were only

branches fruin one common stock (Niebuhr, vol. i. .

p. 104), related to one another very much like the

No! in.in-. Danes, and Saxons. Of the language of1

tueSabines themselves we have unfortunately scarcely |

jgNremains: but there are sonic words quoted by an-

cient authors as being at once Sabine and Oscan : nnd

Varro (himself a native of Keate) bears distinct t*,s-

t in ion v to a connection between the two. (X.irr,

L. L. vii. § 28, ed. Mailer.) On the other hand,

there are evidences that the Sabine language had

considerable atlinity with the Umbrian (Donaldson,

Varron. p. H); and this was probably the reason

why ZcnodotU'i of Troezen (ap, Dionys. ii. 4H) de­

rived the Snbines from an Umbrian stock. But, in

fact, the Umbrian and Oscan languages were them­

selves by no means so distinct as to exclude the

supposition that the Sabine dialect may have been

intermediate between the two, aud have jartakt-ti

largely of the characters of both.

4. Umbkians. — The general tradition of anti­

quity appears to have fixed uj>on the Unihrianstt

the most ancient of all the races inhabiting the

Italian peninsula. (Flin. iii. 14. s. 19; Flor. i. 17;

Dionys. i. 1(J.) We are expressly told that at the

earliest period of which any memory was preserved,

they occupied not only the district where we tiitd

them in historical times, but the greater part of

Ktruria also; while, across the Apennines, they held

the fertile plains (subsequently wrested from ibeM

by the Ktruscans and the Gauls) from the neisb-

bourhood of Kavenna to that of Ancona, and a}']«-

rently a large }>:irt of Ficenum also. Thus, at this

time, the Umbrians extended from the Adriatic to

the Tyrrhemau sea, ami from the mouths of the

Fad us nearly to those of the Tiber. Of their origin

or national affinities we learn but little from ancient

authors • a notion appears to have arisen among the

Romans at a late period, though not alluded to by

any writer of authority, that they were a Celtic or

Gaulish race (Solin. 2. i; 11; Serv. ad Aim. xii. 753;

Isidor. Grig. ix. 2), and this view lias bc-i-n adopted

by many modern authors. (Walckenaer, (Jivgr.tU*

Gauletj vol. i. p. 10; Thierry, HUt. dts Gaulou,

vol. i.) But, in tins instance, we have a much safer

guide in the still extant remains of the Umbrian

language, preserved to us in the celebrated Tabulae

Kugubinac [IoL'VU'm] : and the researches of mo­

dern philologers, which have been of late years espe­

cially directed to that interesting monument, have

sufficiently proved that it has no such close affinity

with the Celtic as to lead us to derive the Umbrani

from a Gaulish stock. On the other hand, the?*

inquiries have fully established the existence at a

general resemblance between the Umbrian, Oscan,

and oldest Latin languages; a resemblance riot con­

fined to particular words, but extending to the gram­

matical forms, and the whole structure of the lan­

guage. Hence we are fairly warranted in concluding

that the Umbrians, Oscans, and Latins (one im­

portant element of the nation at Ic&tt), :ts well as

the Sabines and their descendants, were only branches

of one race, belonging, not merely to the same great

family of the Indo-Teutonic nations, but to the same

subdivision of that family. The Umbrian may Terr

probably have been, as believed by the Romans, the

most ancient branch of these kindred tribes; and

its language would thus bear much the same rela­

tion to Latin aud the later Oscan dialects thai

Moeso-Gothie does to the several Teutonic tongues.

(DoiiahUm, Varron. pp. 78, 104, 105; Schweglcr,

Rvmistvhe Geschichtc, vol. i. p. 176.)

5. Etruscans.—While there is good reason to

suppose a general and even close atlinity between tlie

nations ot Central Italy which have just bern re­

viewed, there are equally strong grounds for re­

garding the Ktruscans as a people of wholly dif-

