PACTYICE. PADUS. 509

(Mm. 74; Xtpos, Ale. 7 ; cf. Pirn, iv. 18;

StTi&Ji) Prrhips St. Gtorge. [T. H. D.]

PACTTICE (noaruiirf)), a district of North-

V>-m bdia, which, there is every reason to sup-

;». mat tan been nearly the same as the modern

! uW, but probably extended westward across the

lata. It is mentioned by Herodotus with that amount

«t lacfrtiinrr which attaches to almost all that he

rtfca if tit far East Thus in the catalogue of the

pw» of the different satrapies of the Persian em-

pn, Paetyke is reckoned after Bactriana, and is con-

-*»! »Hh the Armenians, which gives it an extent  
S» Iv U) to* W. (iii. 93). Again, in his account of

.»tTj of Xerxes, llerodotus mentions the Pac-

x connexion with the Sagartii, and places them

j..f lot ccanmand of a Persian (vii. 67). And in

Ur t'jWqoent description of the fonner people, he

orn Ihit their dress is the same as that of the

fcrtrw (in. 8S). Evidently, therefore, he here

racm the country and the people to have occu-

k* a dktriet to the N. and NE. of Persia. Again,

aWtat itiles (iii. 102) that the bravest of the

fcon tribes are th**e who are in the immediate

atp'virbaiid of the city of Caspatyrus and Pac-

<r»; Kid he connects the tame two places together

rtn t» Mates (iv. c. 44) that the celebrated

"•"ft <f Serial of Caryanda. which was promoted

J haniai, the son of Hyataspcs, commenced from

'trv hcaljties. Now we know that Hecatacns

V StojA. B. «. r.) placed Caspatyrus in the

•■tn of the Gsndarii (Fragm. p. 94, ed. Klau-

•1): lames the strong inference that Pactyice was

r» i Gasiarica, if not, as Lurcher has supposed,

*"£t the m-ne. [V.]  
i'A'TBIS. [Carctsa]

PAI'AEL [India, p. 50, b.]

F ".rJAEGUS (teSapyot, Arrian, Indie, c. 39), a

ai ,^»c7x of Persia, which appears to have flowed

brit tmrnu Gulf near the present Abushir. It

; ««ib,V to identify this and some other names

e-eyi Arrian from the Journals of Nearchus,

^ to the physical changes which have taken

•» r :» coast line. [V.]

r ^'I.NTM, a town of Gallia Cispadana, known

f ran Pliny, who mentions the Padinates among

iJ-^-itu of that region (Plin. iii. 15. s. 20).

I ti afbrus us no elue tn its position. Cluver

.iertify it with Bondino, between Femora

t «Vu»iJai bat this is a mere conjecture.

IU p. 2*2.) [E. H. B.]

fA'l's (TUSot: Po), the principal river of

^Italy, and much the largest river in Italy

■ Ham Virgil calls it " fluviorum rex"

"1 l 4*1), and Strabo even erroneously terms

p pattest river in Europe after the Danube.

fc- ' pi Sf>4.) It has its sources in the Jfonte

* " Hcj V»»ulus. one of the highest summits  
P *«*mj Aipa (Plin. iii. 16. a. 20; Mel. ii.4.

)*wi from thence to the Adriatic has a course

Pliny estimates it at 300

t including the windings, which

M mora. (Plin. iii. 16. s. 20.) Both

th the troth. According to

'■ ickwiars its courx, including its winding,

at 380 Italian, or 475 Roman miles.

, Kt Topogr. a" Italia, vol. iii. p. 284.)

,rt course through a mountain

da into the plain a few miles from

thence flows without interruption

; • past t broad level valley all the way to

as far as Chi-

vatto (through the district of the ancient Vagi-

enni and Taurini), is nearly NE ;but after rounding

the hills of the Monferrat, it turns due V. , and

pursues this course with but little variation the

whole way to the Adriatic The great plain or

valley of the Po is in fact one of the most im­

portant physical features of Italy. Boundod on the

N. by the Alps, and on the S. by the Apennines,

both of which ranges have in this part of their

course a general direction from W. to E., it forms a

gigantic trough-liko basin, which receives the

whole of the waters that flow from the southern

slopes of the Alps and the northern ones of the

Apennines. Hence, as Pliny justly observes (/. c.)t

there is hardly any other river which, within the

same space, receives so many and such important

tributaries. Those from the north, on its left bank,

arc the most considerable, being fed by the perpetual

snows of the Alps; and many of these form exten­

sive lakes at the points where they first reach the

plain; after quitting which they are deep and navi­

gable rivers, though in some cases still very rapid.

Pliny states that the Padus receives in all thirty

tributary rivers, but it is difficult to know which he

reckons as such; he himself enumerates only seven­

teen; but this number can be increased almost in­

definitely, if we include smaller streams. The

principal tributaries will be here enumerated in

order, beginning from the source, and proceeding

along the left bank. They are; 1. the Clusius

(CAiiMone), not noticed by Pliny, but the name of

which is found in the Tabula; 2. the Duria,

commonly called Duria Minor, or Dora Biparia;

3. the Stura (Stura); 4. the Orgus (Oreo); 5.

the Duria Major, or Bantica (Dora Balled), one

of the greatest of all the tributaries of the Padus;

6. the Sesites (Setia): 7. the Ticinus (Ticino),

flowing from the Lacus Verbamis (Logo Maggiore);

8. the I.ajiiikr or Lambrus (Lambro), a much less

considerable stream, and which does not rise in the

high Alps; 9. the Addua (Adda), flowing from

the Lacus Latius or Logo diComo; 10. theOLUua

(Oglio), which flows from the Lacus Sebinus (fxigo

a" Iieo), and brings with it the tributary waters of

the Mela (Mella) and Clusius (Chiese); 11. the

Miscifs (Afineio), flowing from the Logo di Garda,

or Lacus Benacus. Below this the Po cannot be said

to receive any regular tributary; for though it com­

municates at more than one point with the Tartaro

and Adige (Athesis).the channels are all artificial,and

the bulk of the waters of the Adige are carried out to

the sea by their own separate channel. [Athesis.]

On the southern or right bank of the Padus its

principal tributaries are: I. the Tanari s (7a««ro),

a large river, which has itself received the im-

portant tributary streams of the Stura and Bor-

mida, so that it brings with it almost all the waters

of the Maritime Alps and adjoining tract of the Li-

gurian Apennines ; 2. the Scrivia, a considerable

stream, but the ancient name of which ii unknown;

3. the Trf.uia (Trebbia), flowing by I'lacentia; 4.

the Tarus (7aro); 5. the Nicia (Enza): fi. the

Gabellus of I'liny, called also Secia (Secchia); 7.

the Sciji.tf.nna, now called the Banaro; 8. the

Khknus (Reno), flowing near Bologna. To these

may be added several smaller streams, viz.: the

Idex (Idice), Silarus (Silforo), Vatrenus (Pirn.,

now Santertio), and Sinnus (5mno), all of which

discharge themselves into the southern ann of the

Po, now called the Po di Primaro, and anciently

known as the Spiucticum Ostium, below the point

