StrRREXTIN'UM PBOM. 1049 . SUSA.

WUttNTUnm PBOM. [Minkkvak Pmk.]

iiKKNTL'M (2u#frrdV, Strab.; 2oup«ir«rp

. .: £tk. Sarrentinus: Sorrento), a city on the

%i •>{ Campania, on the southern bide of the

iaiful gulf called the Crater or Bay of Naples,

-J 7 milet from the headland called Minervae

%.mtorimn, which forms the southern boundary

it bar. We have very little information as to

i «vlr hihtiry: its name is never mentioned till

'e the feanan conquest of Campania. Tradition

s-ni ascribed the foundation of Surrentum to the

mi, hot whether it was a colony from Cumue,

u tmrlier Greek settlement, we have no account:

4 there doe* not ajipear any evidence that it hud,

'ouoy places in this part of Italy, a distinctly

*t eJiamcter in historical times. Strabo calls it  
■anpanian city (Strab, v. p. 247), hut this may

7 jniably refer to its not being one of those

Tpird by the Picentinea. According to the

m Cotaiarum a prvat part of its Unitary, and

TMf* the town i use If, was considered in a certain

st •» consecrated to Minerva, on account of its

3u<ity to her celebrated temple on the adjoining

•notary, and was for that reason occupied by

Nfc trUlers {Lib. CoL p. 236). It nevertheless

v.rt-i a partial colony under Augustus {lb.), but

■ j: attaining the rank or character of a Culouia.

~T-u5 inscriptions record its existence as a

e.-.jaJ town under the liomaii Empire, and it is

■ oi by all the geographers: but its name is

'■J mentioned in history (Strab. /. c.\ Plin. iii. 5.

>: Met ii. 4 § 9; PtoL iii. 1. § 7 ; Orell. Inter.

U; Mom msec Inter. H. X. 8111- 2125). It

t, however, resorted to by wealthy Romans on

■»it of its beautiful scenery and delightful

ute; among others Pollius Felix, the friend of

not. had a rilla there, which the poet has

•rated at conaiderable length in one of his miner

ai {Stir. ii. 2). We are told also that Agrippa

annua, when he 6rst incurred the displeasure of

pu>Tus, wu ordered to retire to Surrentum,

& be was consigned to more complete banish-

~: is the island of Planasia (Suet. Aug. 65).

tet the chief celebrity of Surrentum was derived

a i:s wine, which eojoyed a high reputation at

•t, and is repeatedly alluded to by the poets of

tropins. It was considered very wholesome, and

o consequence recommended by physician* to

• Ascents and invalids. Tiberius indeed is said

at* declared that it owed its reputation entirely

be physicians, and was in reality no better than

tar. It did not attain its maturity till it hud

> kepi 25 yeMrs (l'lin. xiv. 6. s. 8; Athenae. i.

16; Ovid. Jfct xt. 710; Martial, xiii. 110;

. Siht. iii. 5. 102; Strab. v. p. 243; Colum. 1L

k 2. § I " .. We learn from Martial si ■• (xiii.

. xiv. 102) that Surrentum was noted for its

try. The lulls which produced the celebrated

i "ere those which encircle the plain in which

:ity was situateu. (" Sarrentini onlles," Ovid. Met

,k and separate ft from the gulf of Postdoitia on

aher ude These hills form a part of the ridge

i descends from the lofty mountain group of

Mamie S. Angelo between Castellamare und

and U continued as far as the headland

Hte Capri This point, now called the f'unta

i Campanellti^lht ancient Promontorium M.-

ae, was known also by the name of Surrentinum

anctorinm, from its close connection with the

i of Surrentum (Tnc. Ann. iv. 67; Stat. Silv.

165). The celebrated sanctuary of the Sirens,

from which Surrentum itself was supposed to have

derived its name, seems to have been situated

(though the expressions of Strabo are not very clear)

between this headland and the town (Strab. v. p.

247). But the islands of the Sirens (Sirenusao

Insulac) were certainly the rocks now called Li

Galli, on the opposite side of the promontory. The

villa of PolHus, which is described by Statius as

looking down upon the deep Gulf of Puteoli, stood

upon the headland now called Capo di Sorrento, on

the W. of the town, separating the Bay of Surreuto

from that of 3/oara; extensive ruins of it are still

visible, and attest the accuracy of the poet's descrip­

tion. (Stat. Silv. ii. 2; Swinburne's Travels, vol. i.

pp. 88—90.)

The other ruins still visible at Sorrento and in its

neighbourhood are of no great interest: they present

numerous fragments of buildings of imperial times,

to some of which the names of a temple of Hercules,

temple of Neptune, &c. have been applied by local

antiquarians, with no other foundation than the

fact that we learn from Statius the existence of

temples to those divinities at Surrentum. The most

considerable relic of antiquity is a Piscina of large

dimensions, which is in such good preservation that

it still serves to supply the inhabitants with water.

The modern town of Sorrento is a nourishing and

populous place witli a population of above 6000

souls: it is much resorted to by strangers on account

of its mild and delicious climate, for which it is

already extolled by Silius Italicus ('*Zephyro Sur­

rentum molle salabri,H Sil. Ital. v. 466 ) [K. H. B-]

SUSA {ra 2ovoa, Aesebyl. Pert. 535, 730;

Herod, i. 188; Xen. Cur. viii. 6. § 8, &c; in 0. T.

Shuuiian, Esther, i. 2; Nekemiah, i. 1; Daniel,

viii. 2), the chief city of the province of Susiana,

on the eastern bank of the Choaspes (Kerlhah).

There was considerable doubt among the ancient

writers as to the exact position of this celebrated

city. Thus Arrian (vii. 7), Pliny (vi. 27. s. 31),

and Daniel (viii. 2) place it on the Kulaeus (Ulai

in Daniel): while from other authors (Strab. xv. p.

728) it may be gathered that it was situated on the

Choaspes. (For the probable cause of this confusion,

see CHOASPES.) We may add, however, that, ac­

cording to Curt ills, Alexander on his way from

Babylon had to cross the Choaspes before he could

reach Suss (v, 2), and that the same inference

may be drawn from the account of Aristagoras of

the relative position of the places in Penis in i i.

address to Cleo-nenes. (Herod, v. 52.) It appears

to have been an early tradition of the country that

Sum was founded by Dareius the son of Jlystaspet*

(Plin. /. c); and it is described by Aeschylus as

f*«V aarv XovoiSot {Pers. 119). By others it is

termed M<uroVcio* &arv (Herod, v. 54), and its

origin is attributed to Memnon, the son of Tithonus.

(Strab. /. c; Steph. B. s. v.) The name is said to

have been derived from a native Persian word Susan

(meaning lily), from the great abundance of those

plants ir. that neighbourhood. (Steph. B. /. v.;

Athen. xii. p. 513, ed. Cassaub.) Atheuaeua

also confirms the account of the excellence of

the climate of Susa (/. c). It may be remarked

that the word lovoivov was well known as applied

to an unguent extracted from lilies. (Dioscor.

iii. c. de lilio; Athen. xv. p. 609; Etymol. M.

$. v. TiivoiMov). The city was said to have been

120 stadia in circumference (Strab. L c ), and to

have been surrounded by a wall, built like that of

Babylon of burnt brkk. (Strab. L fcj Pans. iv. 31.

