LIBYA. 177 LIDYA.

tbe Xigir. Ptolemy moreover assigns to Africa a

greater extent S. of the equator: but here his know-

W„re becomes inexact, since he makes the land

stretch into the Atlantic instead of curving eastward;

and he concluded that the southern parts of Libya

joined the eastern parts of Asia, and consequently

was either incredulous or ignorant of the Periplus

of the Phoenicians in the reign of Pharaoh Necho.

Pliny adds little to our information respecting

Libya beyond its northern and eastern provinces,

akhougb he contributes to its geography a number

of (■trange and irrecognisable names of places. He

had seen an abstract at least of the journal of Poly-

Nus, and he mentions an expedition in a. i>. 41 by

Suetonius Paullinus, which crossed the Atlas range,

and explored a portiun of the desert beyond. But

b"th Pliny and Pomponlus Mela are at once too

u£u? and succinct in their account* to have added

ranch to our knowledge of the interior.

The persecutions which were mutually inflicted

h the Christian sects upon each other in the 3rd

sod 4ih centuries a. i>., the expulsion of the Dona-

ti>!s, Muntanists, Circnmcellions, &c, from the

Kcle&iattical provinces of the Homan church, drove

even beyond the Atlas region thousands of fugitives,

«d combined with the conquests of the Arabs in the

l:h century in rendering the interior more per-

njalle and better known. Yet neither the fugitives

r.or the conquerors have materially increased our

acquaintance with these regions. The era of dis-

corery, m any extensive sense of the tenn, com­

mences with the voyages of the Portuguese at the

cUe of the 15th and the commencement of the

16th century. But their observations belong to the

geography of modern Africa.

We have reserved an account of the two most me~

DstnbJe expeditions of the ancients for the discovery

of the farm and dimensions of the Libyan continent,

partly on account of their superior importance, if

they are authentic, and partly because the results

d ihem have been the subject of much discussion.

Herodotus (iv. 42) alleges as one reason for his

belief that Libya, except at the isthmus of Suez, is

•orroonded by water, a story which he heard of its

nrrumnavigation by the Phoenicians in the reign

aod by the command of Pharaoh Kecbo, king of

Aefrypt. This supposed voyage was therefore made

bttwern n. c. 610—594.

According to Herodotus, whose narrative is indeed

Bieazre enough, Pharaoh Necho desired to connect

!i* Mediterranean with the Ked sea by a canal from

Bibastb in the Delta to the Arsinoitc buy near

&e. He abandoned this project at the bidding uf

t'w priests, and tlien ordered his pilots to attempt

the passage from the one tea to the other by a dif-

frmi channel. For this purpose his fleet, manned

entirely by Phoenicians, set sail from the Ked sea,

ftasfcd Aegypt and Aethiupia, and passed into the

iMiaa ocean. At the end of three years they

tiered the month of the Kile, having, as they

rfraed, circumnavigated the continent Twice they

ovied,— probably at the season of the monsoons,—

laid op their ships, sowed the flelds, and reaped the

karwst, and then proceeded on their course. They

il:*vrd —and their assertion is remarkable, although

Hmdotu* did not believe it — that as they were

uuitir westward the sun was on their right hand.

The probability or improbability of this voyage

ha* been canvassed by Alannert {Geograph. der

GrwA. md Rontr, vol. x. pt. 2, pp. 491—511),

bj tiowlra {Geographic du Grtcs Analyst torn.

tou a

i. pp. 108, &c), Kennell (Geogr. of Herod, vol. ii.

pp. 348—363.), and Heeren (Ideen, vol. i. p. 364).

We do not consider that its improbability is by any

means fully established; the voyage, however, was

too tedious and difficult to be related by the navi­

gators of antiquity, and its results for commerce and

geographical knowledge were accordingly unimport­

ant. The most striking argument for the circum­

navigation having been accomplished is the reported

phaenomenon of the sun appearing on the right hand,

or to the north of the voyagers: nor were the Phoe­

nician galleys less competent to the voyage than the

carrels which conveyed Columbus across the Atlantic,

or Di Gama round the Cape. On the other hand,

we must admit the improbability of some of the cir­

cumstances narrated. Herodotus heard the story

150 years after the supposed voyage had been

made: in that time an extraordinary expedition

beyond the Rod sea may have been magnified into

a complete Periplus. Again, for sowing and reaping

on an unknown coast, for laying up the ships, &c.

the time allowed — three years—is too short. More­

over, no account is made for opposition from the

inhabitants of the coast, or for the violent winds

which prevail at the Cape itself. The notion which

Herodotus entertained, and which long afterwards

prevailed, that Libya did not extend so far S. as the

equator, is not an argument against the fact of the

circumnavigation; for the brevity of Herodotus's state­

ment, in a matter so important to geography, shows

that he had taken little pains in sifting the tra­

dition.

A second ancient voyage is better authenticated.

This was rather an expedition for the promotion of

trade than of geographical discovery. Its date is

uncertain: but it was undertaken in the most flou­

rishing period of the Punic Commonwealth, — i. e.

in the interval between the reign of Darius Hy-

staspes and the First Punic War (b.c. 521—2G4).

Hanno,a snftetes or king,as he is vaguely termed, of

Carthage {Geogr.Graec. Minor, torn. i. Bernlianly),

with a fleet of GO galleys, having on board 30,000

men, set sail from that city through the Straits of

Gibraltar with a commission to found trading-

stations on the Atlantic coast, the present empire of

Morocco. How far he sailed southward is the sub­

ject of much discussion. Gosselin (Geograph. des An-

dens, vol. i. p. 109, seq.) so shortens Han no's voyage

as to make Cape Non, in lat. 28° N., its extreme

southern terminus, while Kennell extends it to Surra

Leone, within 8° of the equator (Geog. nf//crod.

vol. ii. p. 348). The mention of a river, where ho

saw the crocodile and the river-horse, renders it

probable that Hanno passed the Senegal at least. Of

the fact of the voyage there is no doubt. The record

of it was preserved iu an inscription in the temple of

Kronos at Carthage. There it was copied and trans­

lated into his own language by some Greek traveller

or merchant. (Boehart, Gcog. Sacr. i. 33; Cani-

pomanes, Antiq. Maritim. de Carthago, vol. ii.;

Dodwell, Dissertat. I. in Geogr. Grace. Min.t ed.

Hudson; Bougainville, Desc&uvertea d'I J anno Mem,

de FA cad. des Inscript, torn. xxvi. xxviii.; Heeren,

Ideen, vol. i. p. 654.)

A third and much later Periplus is that which

goes under the name of Arrian. It is probably a

work of the first century a.m. It is the record or

log-book of a trading-voyage on the eastern coast of

Libya, and is chiefly valuable as a register of the

articles of export and import in the markets of the

Ked sea, of the Arabian and Persian coast, of the

N

