S33 ROMA. ROMA.

known. Its situation near the place assigned is

determined by the following passage in Seneca's

Apocolocyntotis: "Injicit illi (Claudio) manum

Talthybius ileorum nuntius et trahit capite ohvohito,

ne qaift ram possit agnoscere, per Campum Martian);

et inter Tlberim ct Viam Tcctam desccudit ad in­

feros '* (p. 389, Bip.). If this descent to the infernal

resions was at the subterranean altar of Pluto and

Proserpine before mentioned, it would i"> far to fix

the situation of the Tarentum in the northern part

of the Campus; but this, thounh probable, is not

certain. The Via Tecta is mentioned once or twice

by Martial (iii. 5, viii. 75).

Among the other monuments relating to Augustus

in the Campus Mart his, was an Aha Pacts, dedi­

cated to Augustus on his return from Germany,

B.C. 13. (Dion Cass. liv. 25; Of. Fttst. iii. 882*;

Fast. J'rdcit. III. Kal Feb.) The Aha Fort is ae

RbdUCIS was another similar altar (Dion Cass. liv.

10); but there is nothing to prove that it was on the

Campus Martius.

In the reign of Augustus, Statilius Taurus erected

an A.MrumiKATi:!-: on the Campus, — the first

built of stone at Home ; but its situation cannot be

determined. (Dion Cass. li. 23; Suet. Aug. 2'J.)

A long interval ensued after the reign of Augustus

before any new public buildings were erected on the

Campus Martins. Caligula began, indeed, a large

amphitheatre near the Septa; but Cladius caused it

to be pulled down. Nero erected, close to the baths

of Agrippa, the Thermae Nerohiamas, which

seem to have been sub>e>]nently enlarged by Alex­

ander Severus, and to have obtained the name of

THERMAE Alkxa.nkhinak. The damage occa­

sioned in this district by the lire of Nero cannot be

stated, since all that we certainly know is that the

amphitheatre of Statilius Taurus was destroyed in it

(Dion Cass. lxii. 18). The fire under Titus was

considerably more destructive in this quarter (Id.

lxvi. 24); but the damage appears to have been

made good by Domitian. Among the buildings re­

stored by him on this occasion we find the Tkmtlks

of Isis and Shu apis mentioned; but we have no

accounts respecting their foundation. Their site

may, however, be fixed between the Septa Julia and

the baths of Agrippa, near the modern church of S.

Maria sopra Minerva, Thus Juvenal (vi. 527):—

"A Meroe portabit aquas, ut spargat in aedem

Isidis, antiquo quae proxima surgit Ovili."'

(Cf. Joseph. B.Jtul. vii. 5. § 4.) It was near the spot

indicated that the celebrated group of the Nile was

discovered which now adorns the Vatican (liraun,

Mimuvis of Home, p. 100), together witli several

other Egyptian objects (Flaminio Vacea, Mnn. nos.

26, 27; Bartoli, Mttn. no. 112, &c). Alexander

Severus devoted much attention to these temples

(Lampr. A. Sec. 26), and they must have existed till

a late period, since they are enumerated in the Xotitia.

Domitian also restored a temple of Minerva

which stood near the same spot, the MlHERYA

Chalciimca of Cassiodorus (Chron. sub J)omtt.)

and of the Notitia. (Montf. Vfar. ItaL p.

292). It must have been the temple originally

founded by Pompey in commemoration of his eastern

victories, the inscription on which is recorded by

Pliny (th. 27). It was from this temple that the

church of & Maria just mentioned derived its epithet

of sopra MintTra; and it seems to have been near

this spot that the celebrated statue of the (iiu^tiniani

Pallas, now in the Bracch Xwro of the Vatican,

was discovered ; though according to other, tot las

probable, accounts, it was found in th* circular »-

ple near the Porta Magyior? (Braun. ifwramf kc

p. 154). Some topographers assume that tbet»fi»

built by Pompey was a different one from the ala*\

with the barbarous title of Minerva CucpenM, bet

in the same neighbourhood; which does not asm

probable (Can'ma, /wlicaz. p. 405).

Domitian also founded in the Campos Martxaaa

ODEtm and n Stadium (Suet. Dor*. 5), which vft

be described in the proper sections. The virmiii

of the former cannot be detennined. The StadRflgl

in all probability, occupied the site of tbe /*iaaaiJM

rona, the form of which shows that it most kaa»

been a circus. The nam* of A'nrowu is a camyftai

of in Agone, and important remains of tha Hadam

