ROMA. ROMA. 847

m themselves, in order to build the CanreU

i ami toe Palazzo Famese with the materials.

b/o, however, is still left tu render it one of the

most striking and important monuments of imperial

Rome. Its name of Colosseum, first mentioned by

Uedc (ap. Ducange, Gloss, ii. p. 407, ed. Bus.)

uiaiSiBisiaiipgggpgaagiBi

.; .11 ;i jTi^-irtiTtfiiTiiwiTiti^

iiiKiiisiaiiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii

ELEVATION OF COLOSSEUM.

aW tii form Coljitus, was either derived from

> ust im at the building, or, more probably,

m :tx nkamu of Xero, which stood close to it

w Sbby, fttlT Anftentro Flavio, in the Ap­

ril to Sardini, i. p. 238, which contains the

■ history of the building down to modem times.)

ti* AvmTHtATnirM Castrense, near S. Croce,

Un already spoken [p. 827].

XVI. The Thermae, or Baths.

ft. donate, propose to speak here only of those

I* pabbc institutions which were open either

fc> « fcr a mere trifle to all, and of which the

I *a» the Thermae Agrh-pae, near his I'an-

». The thermae most not be regarded as mere

ssc, or places for bathing. They likewise con-

«f ;,mmh'h, or places for gymnastic exercises;

■Hs, or rooms for the disputations of philo-

n>; is well as apartments for the delivery of lec-

>. Ac. The thermae of Agrippa do not seem to

ikttasa splendid as some of the subsequent ones;

'■bath they suffered in the fire under Titus,

'ra* preserved till a late period, and are men-

a am than once by Martial (iii. 20.15, 36.6).

'"Mae Xkhomavae were erected by Nero

•arts those of Agrippa (Tac Ann. xiv. 47;

* Sn, 12). After their restoration by Alex-  
r Seieros, who appears, however, to have also

fd them (Lamprid. Alex. 25), they obtained

■» «f Thermae Alexasdrijcae (Cassiod.

* "i ii. p. 194, Bone.). They must have  
v"to the Piazsa Xatom and the Pantheon,

■7 ore thrice mentioned by the Anonymous of

n the latter building and the Circus

is the name he applied to the

Hence the probability that the

jart Darned was the Stadium of Nero. The

aat Keronsaoaa are frequently mentioned in

»thai iadicates cfwiderable splendour (Mart. ii.

'- r-: 34. i; Stat. A'lVc. i. 5. G2): but their

''u obliterated by that of the Thermae Alex-

ax. by which they appear in the Motitia.

* liurd baths erected at Rome were the  
Biai Im, on the Esquiline, near the Fla-

mfteheatre. (Mart. Speel. 2). There are

■aaaoanvble remains of these baths; but the

of then is difficult to make out, from their

Ei erected on the site of a large previous

Casina's account of them is the best

trie Romane di Antickita, vol. ii. p. 119,

ax. s-101). The site on which they stand was

|p*jni'aajar/ occupied by the golden house of

J Sexr them stand the Thermae Trajahi,

ICniaa has correctly distinguished from those

ItChAr, Regional, p. 126; Becker, Handb.

I in the Not'tUa as distinct.

and also in the Chroniclers, who however, singularly

enough, place the building of both in the reign of

Doinitian. (Cassiod. Chron, vol. ii. p. 197, Rone;

Hieron. vol. i. p. 443.) The baths of Titus had

been run up very expeditiously (;< velocia munera,"

Mart. Sped. 2; " thennis juxta ctleriter extructis,"

Suet. TU. 7), and might consequently soon stand in

need of restorations; and it Menu not improbable,

as Becker suggests {Handb. p. 687), that Trajan,

whilst he repaired these, also built his own at the

side of them, before he had yet arrived at the impe­

rial dignity. Cassiodorus (I.e.) expressly mentions

the year 90. Those actually built by Trajan must

have been the smaller ones lying to the NE. of those

of Titus, since Anastasius mentions the church of

S. Martina de Monti as being built "juxta thermas

Trajanas" (Vit. Symmachi, p. 88, Blanch.). His

object in building them may have been to separate

the baths of the sexes; for the men and women had

hitherto bathed promiscuously: and thus the Catal.

Imp. Vienn. notes, under Trajan: "Hoc Imperat.

mulieres in Termis Trajan is laverunt."

The emperor Coinmodus, or rather his freedman

Cleander in his name, is related to have built

some baths (Lampr. Comm. 17; Herod. L 12);

and we find the Thermae Commouianae set

down in the 1st Region in the Notitia; whilst, by

the Anonymous of Einsiedlen, on the contrary, they

are three or four times mentioned as close to the

Rotunda. Their history is altogether obscure and

impenetrable. The Thermae Severianak are

also recorded in the Nvtit'ta in the 1st Region in

connection with the Commodinnae. They are men­

tioned hy Lampridius (Sever. 19); but no traces of

them remain.

The Thermae Antomnianae or Caracallae

present the most perfect remains of any cf the

Roman baths, and from their vastness cannot fail

to strike the spectator with astonishment. The

large hall was regarded in antiquity as inimitable.

(Spart. Carac. 9, Sever. 21.) They were dedicated

by Caracalla; but Elagabalus commenced the outer

porticoes, which were finished by Alexander Severus.

(Lampr. HeL 17, Alex. 25.) They are situated

under the church of S. Balbina, on tile right of the

Via Appin.

But the largest of all the baths at Rome were the

Thermae Dioci.etianae. Unfortunately they are

in such a mined state that their plan cannot be

traced so perfectly as that of the baths of Cara­

calla, though enough remains to indicate their vast

extent They are situated on the inside of the

agger of Servius, between the ancient Porta Collina

and Porta Viminalis. Vopiscus mentions them in

connection with the Bibliotheca Ulpia, which they

contained {Prob. 2). These were followed by the

