12 ICTIS. ICTHYOPIIAGORUM SINUS.

tribes, dwelt to the southward of the Regio Troglo-

dvtica. Of thaw, and other more inland races,

concerning whose strange forms and modes of life

curious tales are related by the Greek and Roman

writers, a further account is given under Tkoglo-

iima. [W. B. D.]

1CHTHYOPHAGORUM SINUS (IxeVofKrjw

xiAwos, Ptol. vi. 7. § 13), was a deeply embayed

portion of the Persian gulf, in 1st. 25° N., situated

between the headlands of the Sun and Assoc1 on the

eastern coast of Arabia. The inhabitants of iis bor­

ders were of the same mixed race —Aethiopo-Ara­

bian—with the Ichthyophagi of Aethiopia. The

bay was studded with islands, of which the prin­

cipal were Aradus, Tylos, and Tbaroa. [W. B. D.]

ICHTHYS. [Eua,p. 817, b.]

ICIANI, in Britain, mentioned in the Itinerary as

ft station on the road from London to Carlisle (Lugu-

balllam). Asmorethanone of the stations on each side

(Villa Faustini, Camboricum, Ac.) are uncertain,

the locality of the Iciani is uncertain also. Chttter-

ford, fckburg, and Tketford are suggested in the

Monumenta Hritaxmica. [R. G. L.J

IC1D1IAGUS, a town of Gallia Lugdnnensis, is

placed by the Table on a road between Revessinm

(supposed to be St. Paxlicm) and Aquae Segete.

[Aquas Skorte.] Icidmagus is probably Jttat-

geauz or IttMauz, which is SSW. of St. Etietme,

on the west side of the mountains, and in the basin

of the Upper Loire. The resemblance of name is

the chief reason for fixing on this site- [G. L.J

ICO'XII (icoVioi). an Alpine people of Gallia.

Strabo (p. 185) says: "Above the Cavares are the

Vocontii, and Tricorii, and Iconii, and Peduli;" and

again (p. 203): "Next to the Vocontii are the Si-

ennii, and Tricorii, and after them the Medali (Me-

ilullj), who inhabit the highest summits.'' These

Iconii and Siconii are evidently the same people, and

the Migma in the name Siconii seems to be merely a

repetition of the final tigma of the word Owrorriovi.

The Peduli of the first passage, as some editions

have it, is also manifestly the name MedullL The

ascertained position of the Cavares on the east side

of the Rhone, between the Durance and /sere, and

that of the Vocontii east of the Cavares, combined

with Strabo's remark about the position of the Me-

dulli, show that the Tricorii and the Iconii are be­

tween the Vocontii and the Medulli, who were on the

High Alps: and this is all that we know. [G. L.J

1C(/NIUM ('UoVior: At*. 'Uoruit: Cogni,

Kunjah, or A'om'ycA), was regarded in the time of

Xenophon (Anab. if t. § 19) as the easternmost

town of Phrrgia, while all later authorities describe

it as the principal city of Lycaonia. (Cic. ad ram,

its- 6, 8, xv. 3.) Strabo (xii. p. 568) calls it a »s-

Aljrrw, whence we must infer that it was then j

still a small place; but he adds that it was well

npled, and was situated in a fertile district of

. a/mia. Pliny (v. 27), however, and the Acts of

the Apostles, describe it as a \ery populous city, in­

habited by Greeks snd Jews. Hence it would ap­

pear that, within a short period, the place had greatly

risen in importance. In Pliny's time the territory

of Ironium formed a tetrarchy comprising 14 towns,

of which Iconium was the capital Cm coins belonging

to the reign of the emperor Gallienus, the town is

called a Roman colony, which was, probably, only an

assumed title, as no author speaks of it as a mluny.

'-star the Byuntine emperors it was the metropolis

-aonia, and is frequently mentioned (llierocl.  
but it was wrested from them first by the

Saracens, and afterwards by the Turks, who made it

the capital of an empire, the sovereigns of which

took the title of Sultans of Iconium. Under the

Turkish dominion, and during the period of the Cru­

sades, Iconium acquired its greatest celebrity. It is

still a Urge and populous town, and the residence of

a pasha. The place contains some architectural

remains and inscriptions, but they appear almost all

to belting to the Byzantine period. (Comp. Amm.

Marc xiv. 2 ; Steph. B. «. r. ; Ptol. v. 6. § 16;

Leake, Aria Minor, p. 48; Hamilton, Hetearcket,

vol. ii. p. 205, ful. ; Kckhel, vol. iii. p. 31; Sestini,

Geo. Sum. p. 48.) The name Iconium led the an­

cients to derive it from thtir, which gave rise to the

fable that the city derived its name from an image

of Medusa, brought thither by Perseus (Eustath. ad

Dionyl. Per. 856) ; hence Stephanos B. maintains

that the name ought to be spelt EureVior, a form

actually adopted by Eustathius and the Byuntine

writers, and also found on some coins. [L. S.J

ICOBIGIUM. [EaoiUGil-K.]

ICOS. [lets.]

ICOSITA'NL [Iuci.]

ICO'SIL'M Clxioior: Algier), ft city on the coast

of Mauret&nia Caesaricnsis, E. of Caesarea, a colony

under the Roman empire, and presented by Vespasian

with the jut Latmmu (/<«'«. Ant. p. 15; Mela, L

6. § 1 j Plin. v. 2. s. 1; PtoL iv. 2. § 6.) Its site,

already well indicated by the numbers of Ptolemy,

who places it 30* W. of the mouth of the Savus, has

been ideutified with certainty by inscriptions dis­

covered by the French. (Pcllissier, in the Explo­

ration Scitntyique de tAlgerit, vol. vi. p. 350.)

Many modern geographers, following Mannert, who

was misled by a confusion in the numbers of the

Itinerary, put this and all the neighbouring places

too far west. [Comp. lot.] [P. S.J

ICTlMU'Ll or VICTIMU'Ll ClxroiyLmKot,

Strab.), a people of Cisalpine Gsul, situated at the

foot of the Alps, in the territory of Vercellae. They

are mentioned by Strabo (v. p. 218), who speaks of

a village of the Ictimuli, where there were gold mines,

which he seems to place in the neighbourhood of

Vercellae; but the passage is so confused that it

would leave us in doubt. Pliny, however, who

notices the gold mines of the Victimuli among the

most productive in Italy, distinctly places them " in

agro Vercellensi." We learn from him that I bey

were at one time worked on so large a scale that a

law was passed by the Roman censors prohibiting

the employment in them of more than 5000 men at

once. (Plin. xxxiii. 4. a. 21.) Their site is not

more precisely indicated by either of the above

authors, but the Geographer of Kavenna mentions

the "civitas, quae dicitor Victimula" a* situated

"near Kpuredia, not far from the foot of the Alps"

(Geogr. Kav. iv. 30); and a modern writer has

traced the existence of the ** Castellum Victimula''

during the middle ages, and shown that it must

have been situated between /ma and Bulla on the

banks of the Elvo. Traces of the ancient gold

mines, which appear to have been worked during

the middle ages, may be still observed in the neich-

bouring mountains. (Durandi, Alpi Graie e /Vaw

ame, pp. 110—112; Walcxenacr, Gtogr. da GauUt,

vol. i. p. 168.) [E.HB.J

ICTIS, in Britain, mentioned by Diudurus Siculus

(v. 22) as aft island lying off the coast of the tin

districts, and, at low tides, becoming a peninsula,

whither the tin was conveyed in waggons. SL.Vi-

ckattt ilomt a the suggested locality for klie

