218 LUSITANIA. LUSITANIA.

presented en an ancient vase. (Millinper, Pemtures

tie Yates, pi. 52; .Miillcr, Itenkm'tUr iter alt. Kunst,

t. II.) I lie ruins, which Dodwell discovered above

Lusi towards the end of the plain, and on the road

to Cynaeth'i, are probably those of the temple of

Artemis J.eake discovered some ancient foundations

at the middle fountain of the three in the more

westerly of the two plains of Sudhend, which he

supposes to bo the remains of the temple. One of

the officers of the French Commission observed a

large cave on the western side of the Aroanian

mountains, in which the inhabitants of Sudhemi wore

a« ustomed to take refuge during war, and which

is probably the one intended in the legend of the

daughter* of Preetus. (Dodwell, Classical Tour,

vol. ii. p. 447: Leake, Morta, vol. ii. p. 109, vol.

iii. pp. 168, 181; Boblaye, Jtecherches, £c. p. 155;

Cortius, Ptlopimnesos, vol. i. p. 375, acq.)

LUSITA'NIA (h AutriToyio,^ AuffiraFut<i,Strab.;

AovuiToWa, Dind. Sic, Ptol., Steph. B.: Eth.hu-

anavol, Lusitani), originally denoted the country of

the Lusitani, but is commonly used in a wider sense,

as the name of one of the three provinces, into

which Hispania was divided by Augustus. (His-

pania, p. 1081, Nun. 3, 4).

1. Extent and Bowularies.— Like the modem

Port'ujtd, it lay on the W. side of the peninsula, ex­

tending from its S\V. point (Sacrum Pr., C. S.

Vincenl\ eastwards to the mouth of the Anas

(Guadiana), and northwards along the W. coast;

but here, as well as in the interior, the boundaries

of the two countries were very different ; Lusitania

occupying only two-thirds of the W. coast, and Por­

tugal more than three-fourths. The former had its

N. boundary at the Ruiuua (A>wro), the latUsr at

the Minius (.1/mo); and the Portuguese province,

called Entre Daunt e Minho, as lying between these

rivers, as well as that of Troy or Monies If. of it,

were anciently the part of Gai.lakcia which be­

longed to the CallaTci Bracarii. But on the E. side,

inland, Lusitania had a much wider extent than

Portugal. Both rest on the same base, as their S.

aide, namely the coast between C. S. Vincent and

the mouth of the Guadiana, and at first the bound­

ary runs N. nearly along the same line, namely the

course of the Guadiana, the slight difference being in

favour of Portugal, which has a slip on the E. side

of the river. But, from a point on the river, a little

below Badajoz, and a little above its intersection

with the Meridian of 7a W. long., the boundaries

diverge ; that of Portugal taking a general direction I

N. with a slight bearing to the Iv, till it strikes the

/Antra at its great bend from SW. to NW. (where

the Aqueda joins it), and running up the river to

its great bend in the opposite direction, below the

Etta; while that of Lusitania continued up the

Anas eastward, towards the middle of the Penin­

sula, to a point considerably alsiv>> Mr.TtxMM'M

(but not very certainly detiued), whence it followed I

a N. direction to the Durius, which it met at a point j

below the river Pistoraca (also not very well de­

fined). Thus, Lusitania contained, on this side, the

X. part of S]<anish Exlrcmadnra, and the S. part of

Ijron; and the part of the province thus lying E. of

Modem Portugal, cbrrcs|ond very nearly to the ter­

ritory of the Vktto.nkh. These an- the boundaries I

of the ltoniau province, as constituted under Augus-

tua ; but there are considerable variations iu tlie'

extent aaaigned to the country by various writer*,

especially according as the word is used, in the ,

wider aenac, for the uruvime, or in Uie narrower

meaning, for the country of the Lusitani. In tbia

6rst and narrowest sense, it included only the di—

trict bctwven the Tagus and the Duriua, from lb*

Atlantic on the W., to about the piwnt frontier isf

Portugal on the E. Next, the supposed or ann.il

connection of these people with their North*™

neighbours, the CallaTci, "Artabri," and A storm,

led to their being, at hast in part, included order

the same name, and accordingly Strabo define* Lusi­

tania as the countrv N. of the Tagus, booDdcd na

the W. & N. by the Ocean. (Strab. iiL p. \i^)

But just above he says, that the greater part of to*

Lusitani, meaning those X. of the Durius, had "l-

tained the name of CallaTci; and elsewhere he ex­

pressly states that the whole region X. of list

Duiius, which was formerly called Lusitania, »■•

now called CallaTca. (iii. p. 166.) On the E-,

says Strabo (i c), it bordered on the Carpetani,

V'ettonea, Vaccaei, and CallaTci, and other tribe* of

less note ; and he adds that these also were *on«-

timea called Lusitani, thus pointing to the ex tens, a

of the name towards the east. Then, again, on the

S. of the Tagus, where the country seems originally

to have belonged to the Tpruktani. with an inter.

mixture of Celtic tribes [Cki.tici], the long and

obstinate wars earned on by the Kotnana drove

many of the Lusitanians and their allies into the

district, which thus came naturally to be included

under the name of Lusitania. (Strab. iii. p. 139.)

Finally, under Augustus, the boundaries were fixed

as above stated.

2. Dimensions.— Agrippa, as quoted by Pliny,

assigned to the province, together with Asturi* aoj

Gallaecia, a width of 536 M. P.; and a length of

540 M. P. (Plin. iv. 21. a. 85.) Strabo make* iu

length 3000 stadia, and its width considerably less

(iii. p. 153, as amended by Xylander: it sh.Kild be

remembered that the width is reckoned, a* Straps*

expressly says, along the E. side. i. e. from S.ti\

in conformity with his general views mulcting tb*

form of the peninsula, which are explained under

Hispaxia).

3. Physical Geography.—Strabo's description of

Lusitania (/. c.) as lofty and rugged on the K. side,

and level towards the sea, with the exceptiiaa of

minor ridges of mountains, is tolerably correct. A

mote exact account of its relation to the whole for­

mation of the surface of the )>eninsulais given under

Hisi-ASIA (§ v. No. 5. pp. 1085, 10S6), together

with a description of the coast and the chief iro-

montories. Its surface is roughly divided by the

■Miins IlK.ltslimrs (Sierra de Eslrella), which rods

in the peninsula of Lisbon, into the two great bavins

of the Tagus and the Durius; but it is also iater-

sectetl by numerous offset* from the (Treat central

chains of the peninsula. Besiiles the great river

Tagl's, which bisects it, there are several other*. ot

more or less importance, which Mow in the ww

general direction, and (tow into toe sea on ton W.

coast; but of these none require special r»<jr*, ex­

cept the Callipus (KaAAivovi, Sadao), which fun

N. from the M. Cuneus in the extreme S^ and fails

into the sea. SK. of the Tagus, and the Mim*v

(Mmulegn) and Vacua ( Vouga), between tli* Tagus

and the Durius.

* The discrepancies among the ancient  
respecting the names of the rivers between ths

Tagus and the Miniua have been notjrvd uodrr

(iali^kcia: the following conspectas, by Gr\s>-

kurd, of their vai iuu* statement*, may be netfuL

