ROMA. 761- r.onA.

lata, till they reached the point opposite to the

s>lt of the Janiculum. Of this hut portion only

lit fragments are now risible,

"t the other side of the Tiher only a few traces

tie ancient wall remain, which extended lower

n the stream than the modem one. Not far

m the river lay the Pokta Portuensis, which

■aea VIIL destroyed in order to baild the present

*-ti Pvrirse. This gate, like the Ostiensis and  
nceatuia, had two arches, and the same inscrip-

b at that over the Tiburtina. From this point

i raS proceeded to the height of the Janicu-

a, »here stood the Porta Ai-reua, so named

it the Via Anrelia (vetus) which issued from it.

i tare already mentioned that its modern name

urto oV S. Pancrazio) waa in use as early as the

• «/ Praropiiu ; yet the ancient one is found in the

itmr.fxis of Einsiedlen, and even in the Liber de

r il<%Unm. The walla then again descended in a

. India] to the river, to the point opposite to that

rare w« commenced this description, or between

firmest Palace and Ponte Sitto. It is singular

• «■ di not find any gate mentioned in this portion

rot. and we can hardly conceive that there should

t bam no exit towards the Vatican. Yet neither

nans (B. G. L 19, 23) nor the writers of the

dm ages recognise any. We find, indeed, a

aataerinr gate mentioned by Spartianus (Srrer.

n Wilt by Septimius Severus, and named after

Vjiniau); but it is plain that this could

bare been, originally at least, a city gate, as

r were no wails at this part in the time of

—a. Kc»ker conjectures (<fc Muru, p. 129,

msV p. 214) that it was an archway belonging

as* H'T*'"!; erected by Severus, and that it

<- «*^o*nlly built into the wall by Aurclius or

waa; of the probability of which conjecture,

t that it is never once mentioned by any

m, ib* rcavier must judge.

III. The CArrroL.

to describe this prominent feature in

ipby of Koine, we are arrested on the

■W u by a dispute respecting it which has long

aad asd still continues to prevail, and upon

.. trf« pn«eding any further, it will be ne-

ry ts declare oar opinion. We have before dc-

r-i jt Capi-.oline hill as presenting three natural

.au. aaaadj, two summits, one at its NE. and

sour at its SW. extremity, with a depression

ra than, thus forming what is commonly called

lulls bar I; bill. Now the point in dispute is,

- J ibrsr? summits was the Capitol, and which  
L'xf Tbe unfortunate ambiguity with which

tarsal are uxxl by the ancient writers, will, it

W aasraa). prevent tbe possibility of ever IX-

• at say complete and satisfactory solution

e H asatiiwi Heme the conflicting opinions

; Lair prevailed upon the subject, and which

rrveu rise to two different schools of topo-

ar«. |«neraDy characterised at present as the

as sad tbe Italian school There is, indeed, a

tuaa of writers, who hold that both the Capitol

Irs trfmf**^ the same, or SW. summit; but

~*saif absurd theory has now so few ad-

ca ifcat it will not be necessary to examine it.

. m' rocapk-uuos scholars of the German school

<'-bahr, and bis followers Bunscn, Becker,

r —»* othrra; and these bold that the temple

I ;~ Gaeab&ijus was seated on the SW. summit

- till Tbe Italian view, which is directly

contrary to Uiis, was first brought into vogue by

Xardini in the last century, and has since been held

by most Italian scholars and topographers. It is

net, however, so exclusively Italian but that it has

been adopted by some distinguished German scholars,

among whom may be named Gbttling, and Braun,

tbe present accomplished Secretary of the Archaeo­

logical Institute at Rome.

Every attempt to determine this question must

now rest almost exclusively on the interpretation of

passages in ancient authors relating totheCapitolinc

bill, and the inferences to be drawn from them;

aitd tbe decision must depend on the preponderance

of probability on a comparison of these inferences.

Hence the great importance of attending to a strict

interpretation of the expressions used by the classical

writers will be at once apparent; and we shall there­

fore preface the following inquiry by laying down a

few general rules to guide our researches.

Preller, who, in an able paper published in Schneidc-

win's Philoltifftu, vol. i., has taken a very moderate

and candid view of the question, consoles himself and

those who with him hold the German side, by re­

marking that no passage can be produced from an

ancient and trustworthy writer in which Capitolium

is used as the name of the whole hill. But if

the question turns on this point—and to a great

extent it certainly does — such passages may be

readily produced. To begin with Varro, who was

both an ancient and a trustworthy writer. In

a passage where he is expressly describing the hills

of Rome, and which will therefore admit neither of

misapprehension nor dispute, Varro says; "Scpti-

montium nominatum ah tot montibu*, quos postea

urbs muris comprehendit, E quit Capitolium dictum,

quod hie, quoin fundamenta fodcrentur aedis Jovis,

caput hnmanum dicitur inventum. Hie mont ante

Tarpeius dictus," &c. (L.L. v. § 41, Mull.) Hero

Capitolium can signify nothing but the Capitoline

hill, just as Palatium in § S3 signifies the Palatine.

In like manner Tacitus, in his description of the

Romulean potnoeriuin before cited: "Furumque Ro-

mauum et Capitolium non a Romulosed a Tito Tatio

additum urbi credidere" (Ann. xii. 24), where it

would he absurd to restrict the meaning of Capito­

lium to the Capitol properly so called, for Tatius

dwelt on the Arx. So Livy in his narrative of the

exploit of Uoratius Cocles: "Si transitum a tergo

reliquissent, jam plus hostium in Palalio Capi-

tolioque, quam in Janiculo, fore" (ii. 10), where its

union with Palatium shows that the hill is meant; and

the same historian, in describing Romulus consecrat­

ing tbe spolia opima to Jupiter Feretrius a couple of

centuries before the Capitoline temple was founded,

says, " in Capitolium escendit" (i. 10). The Greek

writers use to KawtrdAioy in the same man­

ner: 'FuuiAot ulf to noAaTWF naT*xwv — TdrfOf

ti to KbwitwAiok. (Dionys. ii. 50.) Hence we de­

duce as a first general rule that the term Capitolium

is sometimes used of the whole hill.

Secondly, it may be shown that the whole hill,

when characterised generally as the Roman citadel,

was also called Arx: " Atque ut ita munitaarx cir-

cumjectu arduo et quasi circumciso saxo niteretur, ut

etiam in ilia tempestate horribili Gallici adventus in-

columis atquo intacta permanserit." (Cic. Hrp. ii. 6.)

"Sp. Tarpeius Romanae praccrat arci." (Liv. i. 11.)

But there is no need to multiply examples on this

head, which is plain enough.

But, thirdly, we must observe that though the

[ terms Capitolium and Arx are thus used generally

