SUELTERI.

SUESSA POMETIA. 1043

1 AnL p. 40.V) According to inscriptions it

i i KiKun municipium in which libertini had

I settled, (tietnes. pp. 13, 131; Spon, Mitctll. v.

M. Orelii, Inter, no. 3914; Mela, ii. 6; Plin. iii. 1.

1) It is trie modern Futngirvla. (Inter, in

krtt, Orij. Lmg. Call. i. i.) [T. H. I).]

LLTKKI, » people of Gallia Narbonensis, enu-

ilri bj Pliny (iii. 4), between the Camatullici

1 tbe Verrucini. The name Selteri is placed in

Table above Forum Julia (Frejut). Nothing

U afcertained about the poaitiou of this people

umcujci]. [O. L]

itSIA PALUS, a large lake of Germany

tioal tail/ by Pomponius Mela (Hi. 3) along

i tww others, the Kstia and MeUagium, but

i impossible to saj what lake he is alluding

[L.S.]

IT.SSA, sometimes called for distinctions bake

ESSA AUKUNCA (ZiWtra: /.,'/,. Suessanus:

b), & city of Latium in the widest sense of that

\ but previously a city of the Aurunci, .situated

bo SW. ftlope of the volcanic mountain of Itocca

ijhftd, ftboat 5 miles S. of the Liris, and 8 from

mx Though it became at one time the chief

U the Aurunci, it wan not a very ancient city,

*u fuooiWJ as late a* b. c. 337, in consequence  
I* Aurunci having abandoned their ancient city

"1 from tbeir own name Aurunca), which was

• ft good deal higher up, and about 5 miles

«f Suessa, [Acrlnca.] Aurunca was now

n**l by the Sidicini, and Suessa became thence-

i' capital of the Aurunci (Liv. viii. 15).

I pup!* had, after tbeir defeat by T. Manlius in

■ 340. placed themselves under tbe protection of

a\ and we do not know by what means they

rvftrds forfeited it: perhaps, like the neighbour-

AuonUnaof Vescia and Minturnae, their fidelity

fc*a] shaken by the defeat of the Romans at

nlft*: bat it is clear that they had in some

arr incurred the displeasure of the Romans, and

■ lbs latter the right to treat their territory us

[vral land, for in d. c 313 a Roman colony was

-Uifdat Suessa. (Liv. ix. 28; Veil. Pat. i.  
> It wis a colony with Latin rights, and is men-

*l imong those which in the Second Punic War

their inability to furnish their required

ft to the Roman armies. It was punished a few

■ later by tbe imposition of double contributions.

• xxrii. 9, xxix. 15.) It is again mentioned in

Civil Wan of Marius and Sulla, wben it espoused

■ '■: of the latter, but was surprised and occupied

■nurius. (Appian, B. C. i. 85, 108). In tbe

rf Cicero it had passed into the condition of a

■opium by virtue of the Lex Julia, and is

n o( by that orator as a prosperous and flourish-

•wit: it was the scene of a m.issacre by Autonius

number of military captives. (Cic. Phil. iii. 4,

I, XiK. 8.) It received a fresh colony under

Una, and assumed in consequence the titles of

fataa Julia Felix Classic*," by which we find

*tgnated in an inscription. {Lib. Col. p. 237;

ut. 5. a. 9; Gruter, Inter, p 1093.8; Orell.

f. 4047.) Numerous other inscriptions attest its

nuance as a flourishing and important town un-

tw Koman Empire (OrelL Inter. 130, 836.1013,

1.3042; Mommsen, Inscr.R.N. pp. 210—212);

(ait ia confirmed by existing remains: but no

Eisn of it is found in history. Nor is its name

J in tbe Itineraries; but we learn from existing

■ that there was an ancient road which branched

*n tbe Via Appia at Minturnae and proceeded

by Suessa to Teanuin, from which it wsb continued

to Beneventum. (Hoare's Class. Tow. vol. i. p. 145.

This is evidently the same line given in the /(in.

Ant. p. 121, though the name of Suessa is not there

mentioned.)

Suessa Aurunca was the birthplace of the cele­

brated satirical poet Lucilius, whence he is called

by Juvenal "Auruneae alumnus." (Auson. Epiat.

15. 9; Juv. i. 20.)

The modem city of Setta undoubtedly occupies

the ancient site: and considerable ruins are still vi­

sible, including, besides numerous inscriptions and

other fragments, the remains of a temple Incorporated

into the church of the Vetcovado,* remarkable crypto-

porticus, and several extensive subterranean vaults

under the church of S. Benedetto, constructed of reti­

culated masonry. Smie remains of an amphitheatre

are slso visible, and an ancient bridge of 21 arches,

constructed for the support of the road which lesds

into the town at the modern Porta del Sorgo. It is

still called Ponte di Konnco, supposed to be a corrup­

tion of Ponte Attrunco (Hoare, /. c. pp. 145—

147; Giustiniani. Diz. Topogr. vol. ix. p. 28, ore).

The fertile plain which extends from the foot of tho

hills of Se«Mu to the Litis and the sea, now known

as the Itemafuo di Setta, is the ancient " Ager Ves-

cinus," so called from the Ansonian city of Vescia,

which seems to have ceased to exist at an early

period [ Vescia]. The district in question was pro­

bably afterwards divided between the Roman colonies

of Suessa and Sinnessa. | E. H. R.]

COIN OF Sl.KSSA ALKUNCA.

SUESSA POME'TIA (2owo*ffa Uw^vrtiyi),

Dionys.: Etk. Tlvuerrivos), an ancient city of La-

tium, which had ceased to exist in historical times,

and the position of which is entirely unknown, ex­

cept that it bordered on the " Pomptinus ager" or

Pomptinae Paludes, to which it was supposed to

have given name. Virgil reckons it among the

colonies of Alba, and must therefore have considered

it as a Latin city t. I - n. vi. 776): it is found also in

the list of the same colonies given by Diodorus

(vii. Kr, 3); but it seems certain that it had at a

very early period become a Vol.scian city. It was

taken from that people by Tarquinius Superbus,

the first of the Roman kings who is mentioned as

having made war on the Volscians (Liv. i. 53; Strab.

v. p. 231; Vict Vir. IlL 8): Strabo indeed calls it

the metropolis of the Volscians, for which we have

no other authority; and it is probable that this is a

mere inference from the statements as to its great

wealth and power. These represent it as a place of

such opulence, that it was with the booty derived

from thence that Tarqninius was able to commence

and carry on the construction of the Capitoline

temple at Rome. (Liv. I.e.; Dionys. iv. 50; Cic.

de Rep. ii. 24; Plin. vii. 16. s. 15). This was in­

deed related by some writers of Apiolae, another city

taken by Tarquin (Val. Antias, ap. I'lin. iii. 5.

s. 9), but the current tradition seems to have been

3x2

