892 SAMXIUM.

SAMNIUM.

the tract of country from the Silarus to the Sarnus,

which was subsequently occupied by the PioentinL

(Scylax, p. 3. § 11; Niebuhr, vol i' p. 94.) They

certainly were still in possession of this district in

the Second Samnite War; and it is probable that it

was not till the close of their long straggles with

Rome that it, was wrested from them, when the Ko-

mans transplanted thither a colony of Picen tinea,

and thus finally cut off the Samnites from the sea.

On the aide of Apulia the progress of the Samnites

was less definite: and it does not appear that they

established themselves in the permanent possession

of any part of that country, though they were cer­

tainly pressing hard upon its frontier cities; and

it was probably the sense of this and the fear of

the Sainnite arms that induced the Apulinns early

to court the alliance of Koine. [Apvma.]

The Samnite nation, when it first appears in

Roman history, seems to have consisted of four dif­

ferent tribes or cantons. Of these the I'kntki and

the HlBPUfl were much the mast powerful; so much

s<i indeed that it is ditticult to understand how such

petty tribes its the Cabackm and Caldini could

rank on terms of equality with them. The FBKV-

tani are frequently considered as forming a fifth

canton; but though that people was certainly of

Sainnite race, and must have been regarded by

Scylax as forming an integral part of the Samnite

nation, as he describes the Samnites as occupying a

considerable part of the coast of the Adriatic (Peripi.

p. 5. § 15), they seem to have already ceased to form a

part of their political body at the time when they

first came into contact with Koine. [Fkkntani.]

We have no account of the nature and character of

the political constitution that bound together these

different tribes. It seems to have been a mere

federal league, the bonds of which were drawn closer

together in time of war, when a supreme general or

commander-in-chief was chosen to preside over the

forces of the whole confederacy, with the title of

Em brat ur, the Sabellian form corresponding to the

Latin Iinperator. (Liv. ix. 1; Niebuhr, vol. i. p.

107.) But we find no mention, even on occasions

of the greatest emergency, of any regular council or

deliberative assembly to direct the policy of the

nation; and the story told by Livy of the manner in

which Herennius Pontius was consulted in regard

tn the fate of the Koman army at the Caudine Forks

seems to negative the supposition that any such

body could have existed. (Liv. ix. 3; see also

viii. 39.)

The first mention of the Samnites in Koman

liistory, is in B. c. 354, when we are told that they

concluded a treaty of alliance with the republic, the

progress of whose arms was already beginning to

attract their attention (Liv. vii. 19; Diod. xvi. 45).

It is probable that the Sanmites, who were already

masters of Aesernia and the uptter valley of the

Vulturnus, were at this time pushing forward their

arms down the course of that valley, and across the

mountain country from thence to the Liris, then

occupied by the Volscians, Auruncans, and other

tribes, of Ausunian or Oscan origin. It was not loug

before these onward movements brought them into

collision with the Romans, notwithstanding their

recent alliance. Among the minor tribes in this

part of Italy were the Sidicini, who, though situated

on the very borders of Campania, had hitherto pre­

served their independence, and were not included

in the Campanian people [Sidicini]. This petty

people having been assailed by the Samnites, upon

what cause or pretext we know Bat, tad fb&sf.

themselves unable to cope with such powerfal

neighbours, invoked the assistance at theCampwN.

The latter, notwithstanding their coonecuos wna

the Samnites, readily espoused the cao* d the

Sidicini, but it was only to bring the daogv spot

their own heads: for the Samnites now turoed thftf

arms against the Campanians, and after cctjrpyc^

with a strong force the ridge of Sl<*int litata.

which immediately overlooks Capua, they desEiaJat

into the plain, defeated the Campan-ara is tfntcbei

battle at the very gates of Capua, and shot thai

up within the walls of the city (Lit. vii. 29). b

this extremity the Campanians in their turn tp^as

for assistance to Rome, and the senate, after saw

hesitation on account of their recent alliawe wis

the Samnites, granted it 30, 31). Thus bqai

the First Samnite War (b. c. 343), the eommaw*.

ment of that long struggle which was eventually H

decide whether the supremacy of Italy was to

with the liomans or the Samnites.

This first contest was, however, of short darshas.

In the first campaign the two consuls M- VaWriai

Coitus and A. Cornelius Cosaus gamed two deoa»

victories; the one at the fixit of M> unt Gauroatfct

other near Saticula. The first of these, as Nawaat

observes (vol. iii. p. 119), was r*f especial iinprut

it was the first trial of arms between the twori

nations, and might be taken as a sort of <mm

the ultimate issue of the contest. A third hi

near Suessula, where the remains of the army I

had bet-n defeated at Mount Gaurna, after tav

been reinforced, again attacked Valerias, tenuis!

in an equally decisive victory of the R>maa»:

both consuls triumphed over the Samnite? (Li*.

32—38; FtuL Capit.). The next year the l

tary operations of the liomans were checked fcf <

mutiny of their own army, of which the cow

at Koine took advantage; and the city was din

by dissensions. These causes, as well as ifes

creasing disaffection of the Latins, naturally

the Romans to peace, and a treaty was

with the Samnites in the following year. v. C

The account which represents that people is

liated and suing for peace, is sufficiently

the fact that the Romans abandoned the St&cssi

their fate, and left the Samnites free to carry

their aggressive designs against that uafi

people (Liv. viii. 1, 2).

The peace which terminated the First S

War renewed the alliance previously exi-tfiny

the Romans and the Samnites. In amseq

this the latter took part in the great war wttfc

Latins and Campanians, which almost ii

followed, not as the enemies, but as the allam,

Koine; anil the Roman armies were tho* ecabW

reach Campania by the circuitous route thrauffct

country of the Marsi and I'eligni, and dewa 1

valley of the Vulturnus (Liv. viii. 6). Daring 1

fifteen years that followed, down to the renewal

the contest between Kome and Samnium. the cos

of events was almost uniformly favourable to'

former power. The successful terminatiaa rf'

war with the Latins and Campaniana, and the e

solidation of the Roman power in both lho*e ctmrfl

had added greatly to the strength of the repoti

and the latter had followed up this adnttic*

the reduction of several of the smaller issWfsarf

tribes in the same neighbourhood—the Asm

Sidicini, and the IVivernates, who appear m 1

occasion as independent of, and separate fnm M

