114 LUGDUNUM. LUGDUXUM BATAVOBUiL

bidy of Alamanni (Ammian. Mircell. xvi. 11). The

place is entitled Copia Claudia Augusta on some

inscriptions, a name probably given to it in the time

of the emperor Claudius.

In tho angle between the Arar and the Rhodanus

was the Ara Augusti, dedicated to Augustus by all

the Gallic state*. On this large altar there was an

inscription which contained the names of the sixty

states; and there were as many figures, intended to

represent each state. If the figures were not re­

liefs on the altar, they may have oven statues placed

round the altar, or near iu The passage of Strabo

(p. 192) appears to be corrupt; but, as it is ex­

plained by tiroskurd (Trantl. Tol. i. p. 331). there

was also a large statue of Augustus, which may

have been in tho middle of the sixty. There was

an annual solemn celebration at this altar, which

was observed even when Dion Cassius was writing.

(Dion, liv. 32 ) The time when this altar was

built is fixed by the Epitome of Livy (Ep. 1.17) in

the year in which there was a disturbance in Gallia

on account of the census. This year was n. c. 12.

Suetonius. (Claud. 2) fixes the dedication of the

Altar of Augustus in tho consulship of Julius An-

tonius and Kabius Africanus (u. c. 10), on the first

of August, which was the birthday of the emperor

Claudius, who was a native of Lugdunum. The

first priest of the altar was C. Julius Vcrcundari-

dubius, an Aeduan. The celebration at the altar of

Lugdunum is alluded to by Juvenal in the line

(i. 44, and Heinrich's note), —

"Aut Lugduiicnscin rhetor dictunis ad aram."

Lugdunum was the seat of a Christian church at

an early period. In the time of Marcus Aurelius

(about A. n. 172, or jicrliaps a. i>. 177, according to

some computations) there was a furious per.-rcution

of the Christians at Lugdunum. The sufferings of

the martyrs are told by K'isebius with some manifest

absurdities and exaggerations; but, the fact of a

cruel persecution cannot be disputed. The letter of

the churches of Lugdunum and Vienna to the

churches of Asia and I'hrygia is preserved by Ku-

sebius (Hist. Ercles. v. 1); and it states that Au­

relius, who was then at Home, was consulted by the

Gallic governor about the treatment of the Christians.

The answer was that those who confessed to being

Christians should be put to death, and that those

who denied it shonld be set free. We have however

only one version of the story, though no excuse can

be made for the Homan philosophical emperor, if

men were put to death only because they were

Christians. Ircnai-us, one of the Christian fathers,

was bishop of Lugdunum. He is said to have suc­

ceeded 1'othinus, who perished A. D. 177, in the

religious persecutions at I.ugdunum.

The part of Gallia which Caesar called Celtics

became under Augustus Gallia Lugduncnsis, of

which I.ugdunam was the capital; but Lngduncnsis

was contracted within narrower limits than Celtic*

by the extension of the province of Aqnitania [Aqui •

tasia ; Gallia Trass. Vol. I. p. 966].

The Romans covered the soil of Lyon with houses.

temples, theatres, palaces and aqueducts. Nature

made it to 1* the site of a large city. There

arc few remains of Roman I.ugdunum. Time, the

invasion of the barbarian, and the employment of

old materials fur other purposes, have left only scanty

fragments of the works of the most magnificent of

all city-builders. There are tome remains on the

J'laoc ict Mini net which are supplied to have been

a theatre. On the west side of the Snont there are

traces of a camp capable of holding several legions.

It was bounded ami defended on the west by the

hills of the Forez, and on the north by the heights

of Saint-Diditr and of the Mont a"Or. The Saite

defended it on the east side. The camp had no

water, but the Romans found a supply in the chain

of mountains which bounds it on the west. Water

was brought along the valleys and the sides of th«

hills in a regular slojie all the way, sod under

ground through a distance measured along its line

of more than 24 miles. In its course the aqueduct

collected water from seventeen streams or Urge

sources. The height of the channel or passage fur

the water, measured inside, was near five fret; the

vault or roof was semicircular. There were openings

at intervals by which workmen could go in to clean

and repair the channel. It was constructed with

great care, and the two sides were covered with ft

double layer of cement. All this construction was

buried in a cutting six feet ami a half wide and

near ten feet deep; and a great part of this rutting

was made in the solid rock. Another aqneduet was

constructed from Mont Pilot to the site of the hill

of Foitrpiercs, a distance of more than 50 miles along

the course of the aqueduct. There were in all

fourteen aqueduct bridges along tins line: one of

them at the village of Chnmp->no»t still has ninWy

arches well preserved. There was a third aqueduct

from Mont <lOr.

Two bronze tablets were du™ up at Lyon in 1529.

on which is inscribed the Oratio of the emprror

Claudius on the subject of giving the Roman oiuus

to the Galli. (Tacit. Ann. xi. 24: and Oberlin'a

edition of Tacitns, vol. ii. p. 306; Gallia Trass.

Vol. I. p. 968.) There are many modern works on

Lyon and its antiquities. The principal are men­

tioned by Forbiger (flaiuJbuch, d-c. rid. iii. p.

210.) [G. L.]

COIS Or Lt'ODUNL-M.

LUGDUXUM or CO'XVEXAE. [CoxrmiAi ]

LUGDUNUM BATAVOKUM (Aovyatttr**,

Ptol. ii. 9. § 4: Leiden). The two elements Lmg

and dun appear in the name of this remote city aod

in two other Gallic names, which is one evidence of

the Celtic race having once occupied the flat country

about the outlets of the Rhine. The Roman Itim.

have marked a road running from Leiden tiirun;h

Cologne to Vemania (ImmenMtnJt) on the lYp*T

Danube Circle of Bavaria. The routes are n < tl.«

same all throngh, but the commencement of the n»d

and the termination are the same. This route in

fact followed the basin uf the Rhine from th» Lot*

of Conttanx to the low and sandy allures of tu»

A'or th Sea.

The words " Caput Oermaniarnm" placed befrro

the name Lugdunum in the Antonine ltin. probubly

do not mean that it was the capital of the Gvntism-><-.

for this was certainly n>t so, but tliat it was to*

pant where the two proviikea called Germanise)

commenced on this northern HmiL It has bern

•apposed that Leiden in the province of Holland is

not the Roman Lugdunum, because no Roman re­

mains hare been found there, though the absence of

