846 HOMA. ROMA.

inconvenient, from its great length, ami the metae,

and spinae were in the way; whilst the latter,

besides its moral unsuitableness for such a spectacle,

became by decrees so crowded with monuments as

to leave but little space fur the evolutions of the

combatants. The first temporary amphitheatre was

the wonderful one built of wood by Caesar's par­

tisan, C. Scribonius Curio. It consisted of two

separate theatres, which, after dramatic entertain­

ments had been given in them, were turned round,

with their audiences, by means of hinges or pivots,

and formed an amphitheatre (Plin. xxxvi. 24. s.8).

Caesar liimself afterwards erected a wooden amphi­

theatre (Dion Cass, xliii. 22); but that of.

Taurus was the first built of stow, and

to be the only one down to the time of V

We have mentioned that it was in U*

Marti us. It was dedicated in tbefoorth

of Augustus, b.c. .10. (Dion Cast fi. 13;

Aug. 29.) The amphitheatre erected by

the Campus Martius was a temporary oattf

(Suet. Xrro, 12.) The amphitheatre of

which does not appear to hare been *erT~~

(Dion Cass. lix. 10), was probably destnyii

fire of Nero; at all events we bear w> maw

after that event. The AjuuusanuM

COI-OSSKl'M.

erected by Vespasian, appears to have been originally

designed by Augustus. (Suet. Vttp. 9.) It stood

on the site previously occupied by the lake of Nero,

between the Velia and the Esquiline. (Mart. Sped.

2. 5), and was capable of containing 87

sons. (Notitia, Reg. iii.) A complete

of this magnificent building will be

Dictionary of Antiyr/itits, and Deed not

• a • . L . a-*-*"^

GltOUSD PLAN OF THE COLOSSECM.

pe.itcd here. It was not completely finished till

the reign of Domitian; though Titus dedicated it

in the year 80. (Suet. Til. 7; Aur. Vict Caei.

9. 7.) In tlie reign of Hacrinos it was so much

damaged by a (ire, occasioned by lightning, that it

was necessary to exhibit the gladiatorts and retui-

tinnts for several years in the .Stadium. (Dion Cass.

Ixiviii. 25.) The restoration was undertaken by

Elugabalus, and completed by AlexsaaaT

(Lampr. JUL 17, Alex. 2«.) It tv&ni

calamity under Decius (Hieron. CI

but the damage was again made good.

tionet, or combats with wild beaats, 5

in it as late as the 6th century. Ia

ages it was converted into a furtnas; l

period a great part of it was de

