VITELLIA. 1313 ULIA.

wan in Germany they often advanced as tar as its

hanks, and at one time even crossed it; but they

seem to hare been unacquainted with its southern

coarse, and with its real origin; for it is formed by

the confluence of the Werra and the Fulda, while

Ptolemy (ii. 11. § 1) imagined that it bad its

sources in Mons Melibocus. Marcianus ()>. 51)

states that its length amounted to from 1600 to

1780 stadia. The Visurgis flowed into the German

Ocean in the country of the Chauci. (Comp. Pomp.

Mela, iii. 4; Plin. It. 27; Tac. Attn. i. 70, ii. 9;

Veil Pat. ii. 105; Sidon. Apoll. Carm. xxiii. 243;

Strab. rii. p. 291; Dion Cass. xliv. 33, lv. 1, 2, 8,

In. 18.) [L. S.]

VITELLIA (BirsXAfo, Steph. B.: EUi. Bit«\-

Au-or, Vitellicnsis), an ancient town of Latium,

which was, however, apparently situated in the

territory of the Aequi, or at least on their imme­

diate frontiers, so that it is hard to determine

whether it was properly a Latin or an Aequian

town. But the circumstance that its name is not

found in the list of the cities of the Latin League

given by Dionysius (v. 61) is strongly in favour of

the latter supposition. Its name is first mentioned

by Livy (ii. 39) in the account of the celebrated

campaign of Coriolanns, whom he represents as

taking Vitellia at the same time as Corbio, La-

bicnm, and Pedum: but in tho more detailed nar­

ratives of the same campaign by Dionysius and

Plutarch, no notice is found of Vitellia. The name

is again mentioned by Livy in B.C. 393, when the

city fell into the bands of the Aequi, who surprised

it by a night attack (Liv. v. 29.) lie there calls

it " Coloniam Romanam,'* and says it had been

settled by them in the territory of the Aequi; but

we have no previous account of this circumstance;

nor is there any statement of its recovery by the

Romans. A tradition preserved to us by Suetonius

recorded that the Roman colony was at one time

entrusted to the sole charge of the family of the

Yitellii for its defence (Suet. VilelL 1); bnt there

ran be little doubt that this is a mere family

legend. All trace of Vitellia, as well as Tolerium

and other towns in the same neighbourhood, dis­

appears after the Gaulish invasion, and the only

subsequent mention of the name occurs in the list

given by Pliny (iii. 5. s. 9) of the cities of Lutium

which were in his time utterly extinct. The site

il wholly uncertain, though it seems probable that

t may be placed in the same part of Latium as

Ttderium, Bola, Labicum, and other towns on the

ron tiers of the Aequian territory. It has been

.Uced by Gell at Yalmontone, a place which in all

probability occupies an ancient site, and this would

lo very veil for Vitellia, bnt that it is equally

uitable for Tolerium, which must be placed some-

rbers in the same neighbourhood, and is accord-

ugly fixed by Nibby at Yalmontone [Tolxrium.]

Pbe Latter writer would transfer Vitellia to CivittUa

called also Ciritella of Olerano), situated in the

nuuiitaina between Olerano and Subiacv; but this

rem* decidedly too far distant from the other cities

nth which Vitellia is connected. It would be mnch

lore plausible to place Vitellia at Valmonione and

!*-rium at I.w/naHo, about 3 miles NW. of it,

ut that iMgnamo again would suit very well for

Its ait« of Bola, which we are at a loss to fix

vwhere [Bola]. The fact is that the deter-

lination of the position of these cities, which dis-

>pe*rad in such early times, and of which no re-

ird ia preserved by inscriptions or other ancient monu-

rou ix.

ments, must remain in great measure conjectural.

(Gell. Top. of Rome, p. 436; Nibby, Dintorni, vol. i.

p. 467, vol. iii. p. 370.) [E. H. B.l

VITIA (Ourrio, Strab. xi. pp. 508, 514, 531:

Eth. Ovi'tioi), a small district in Media Atro-

patene, noticed by Strabo in bis account of that

province. It appears to have been in tbe north­

ern part near the tribes of the Dribyccs and

Amardi. [V.]

VITIS [Una].

VIT0DURUM or VITUDUBUM, in Gallia, is

mentioned in an inscription, in which it is said that

the emperors Diocletian anil Maxiniianus " itiurum

Vitodurensem a solo instauraverunt" The Antonine

Itin. places it between Vindonissa (Winduch) and

Fines (Pfin) [FtKES, No. 15.] At Wintertltur in

the SwUs canton of Zurich there is in the town

library a collection of Roman coins and cut stones,

most of which have been found in the neighbour­

hood of the town and in the adjacent village of

"/..)■,;■;„i, which is the site of Vitotlurum.

(D'Amille. -Vofice, <fc.) [G. L.]

VITRICIL'M (1'errw), a town or village of the

Salassi, on the high road leading from Eporedia

(/rreo), to Augusta Praetoria (Aotta). It ia

known only from the Itineraries, which place it 25

miles from Augusta, and 21 from Eporedia {ltin.

Ant. pp. 345, 347, 351), but is undoubtedly iden­

tical with term, a large village in the ValdAoita,

at the entrance of the Vol Chaliant. [E. H. B.]

VIVANTAVARIUM (Ou&u^ooiouw, Ptol. iii.

5. § 30). a place in European Sannatia. between the

rivers Axiaces and Tyras. [T. H. D.]

V1VISCI, VIBISCI. [BiTvniOES Vtvisci.]

VIVISCUS, in Gallia. In the Antonine ltin. the

name is Btbincus. The place is I'erriy, or near it,

in the SwUs canton of \Yaadt or 1'ouo!. See the

article Pcnnklocus. [G. L.]

ULCAEI LACL'S (Oi\itaia «A»), a succession

of lakes and swamps in Pannonia, between the moutha

of the Draw and Savus. (Dion Cass. lv. 32 ) They

seem to be the same as the Palus Hiulca mentioned

by Aurelius Victor (EpiL 41) as being near Cilmlaa

in Pannunia. (Comp. Zceim. ii. 18.) Those likes

now bear the name of Laiincte. [L. S.]

ULCI'SIA CASTRA, a fort in Pannonia, on the

road running along the right bank of the Uunubiua

from Aquimum to Bregctio (It. Ant p. 269), is

now call' Sztnt Endrt. [L. S.]

ULIA (OuAia, Strab. iii. p. 141), a town in ii. .

pania Baetica, on a hill, on the road from Gades to

Conluba. (I tin, . t >..'. i.. 11 2 ) It was a Roman

muuiiipium, with the surname of Eidentia, and be­

longed to the jurisdiction of Conluba (Plin. iii. 3.

s. 4; Hirt. B. U. 3, 4, B. Alex. 61; Dion Cass, xliii.

31.) From inscriptions it appears to be the present

Monte Mayor, where there are ruins. (Ct Morales,

AnL p. 5; Florez, Eip. Saor. x. p. 150, xii. p. 5;

coins in Florez, Med. ii. p. 620, iii. p. 130; Mion-

net, L p. 27, Suj.pL i. p. 47.) [T. H. D.]

