ROMA. ROMA. 743

he partner and rival of Constantine, resided at

tax* Airing the six jean of his reign, and affected

b prim the elegance of the ancient metropolis;

'alrt a» lost and tyranny, supported by squander-

■i iti treasures, created more disgust among the

• «nafj than the absence of their former sovereigns,

^ti-ntius, however, adorned the city which he pol­

led by hit Tien, and some of his works are among

» last raon omenta worthy to be recorded. He

the temple of Venus and Home, which had

by a fire, and erected that magnificent

-*i':i»-a. afterwards dedicated in the name of Con-  
i.vM, whose three enormous arches may still be

r»«d with admiration. (Aur. Vict. Caa. c. 40.

M) TV final transfer of the seat *f empire to

by Constantine gave the last fatal blow

greatness of Home. Yet even that

presented the city — we can hardly sny

staaH it—with a few monuments. One of them,

'irt.h which records his triumph over Maxell-

•f-fl subsists, and strikingly illustrates the

|»th "f degradation to which architectural taste

t aJrady rank. Its beauties are derived from

[ Varfavais pillage of former monuments. The

its acalprnrea which illustrated the acts and

Irraa of Trajan, were ruthlessly and nbsurdly

»t liaad to typify those of Constantine; whilst

nrinal sculptures that were added, by being

obi ji juxtaposition with those beautiful works,

■ siTT* to show more forcibly the hopeless decline

tar piaatic arts, which seem to have fallen with

bw m tie Time of Cimttontiwr If. — From

> jwnod tile care of the Romans was directed

b t/.wards the preservation than the adorn-

• i lieu-city. Wnen visited by the Second Con-

a. x>. 357. an honour which it had not

vnd Car two and thirty years, Home could still

■at fear aut-imt glories. The lively description

tkm visit by Ammianus Marcellinus, though

Baa id a autliew hat inflated style, forms a sort of

awl to Strsbos picture of Rome in the age of

Banal, and ia striking and valuable, both as

ra£ ?be condition of tiie eternal city at that

at, sad aa Illustrating the fact that the men of

; a^v regarded it* monuments as a kind of Titanic

a, which it would lie hopeless any longer to

i ef oxntatiajg. 44 Having entered Rome," says

tavanaa, *• the seat of empire and of every virtue,

■antrae wa» overwhelmed with astonishment

i » viewed the forum, that most conspicuous

u«aa «f aaoaot power. On whatever side he

aa eves, he was struck with the thronging

at-i U< add reused the senate in the Curia, the

» bmm the tribunal; and was delighted with

i: Uujt which accompanied his progress to the

m. JUL the Circeraian games which he gave,

leased with the familiar talk of the people,

s-laeot betraying pride, asserted their here-

y Lrartj. He himself observed a proper mean,

tU oat, as in other cities, arbitrarily terminate

ama, bat, as is customary at Rome, permitted

i ts sad aa chance directed. When he viewed

LaVreat parts of the city, situated on the sides

hills and in the valleys between them,

that whatever he first saw must be

to everything else: such as the temple of

arparaa Jove, whose excellence is like divine to

B; the baths which occupy whole districts; the

mra mam of the amphitheatre, built of solid

•or rtaae, the height of which almost baffles

fhe eye; the Pantheon, which may be called a circular

Region, vanltcd with lofty beauty; the high, but

accessible mounds, bearing the statues of preceding

princes; the temple of Rome, the forum of Peace; the

theatre of Pompey, the odeum, the stadium, and

other similar ornaments of the eternal city. But

when he came to the forum of Trajan, which we

take to be a structure unparalleled in the whole

world, be was confounded with astonishment as he

surveyed those gigantic proportions, which can

neither be described nor again imitated by man.

Wherefore, laying aside all hope of attempting any­

thing of the kind, he merely expressed the power

and the wish to imitate the horse of Trajan, on

which that prince is seated, and which stands in the

middle of the Atrium. Hereupon prince Hormisda,

who stood near him, exclaimed with national gesti­

culation; 4 First of all, emperor, order such a stable

to bo made for it, if you can, that the horse you

propose making may lodge as magnificently as the

one we behold.' The same prince being asked his

opinion of Rome said that the only thing which

displeased him was to perceive that men died there

as well as in other places. So great was the em­

peror's surprise at all these sights that he complained

that rumour, which commonly magnifies everything,

had here shown itself weak and malignant, and had

given but a feeble description of the wonders of

Rome. Then, after much deliberation, he resolved

that the only way in which he could add to the

ornaments of the city would be by erecting an

obelisk in the Circus Maximus" (xvi. 10).

The Bame historian from whom the preceding

topographical picture has been transcribed has also

left some lively and interesting notices of the man­

ners of the Romans at this period. These have

been paraphrased in the eloquent language of Gibbon,

to whose work the reader is referred for many inte­

resting particulars concerning the state of Rome nt

this time (vol. iv. pp. 70—89, ed. Smith). We may

here observe with surpriso that whilst Alaric, like

another Hannibal, was threatening her gates, her

nobles were revelling in immoderate wealth, and

squandering the revenues of provinces on objects of

primp and luxury, though, as we have seen, the arts

had fallen to so low an ebb that there was no longer

any hope of rivalling the works of their ancestors.

The poorer citizens, few of whom could any longer

boast a pure Roman descent, resembled the inmates

of a poorhouse, except that their pleasures were

provided for as well as their wants. A liberal dis­

tribution of corn and bacon, and sometimes even of

wine, relieved their necessities, whilst health and

recreation were promoted by gratuitous admittance

to the baths and public spectacles. Yet Rome was

now struggling for her existence. We have already

mentioned the restoration of the walls by Honorius.

It was under the same emperor that the first

example occurs of that desecration by which the

Romans stripped and destroyed their own monu­

ments. If we may credit Zosimus (v. 38), Slilicbo

was the first to lay violent hands on the temple

of the Capitoline Jove, by stripping off the plates

of gold which lined its doors, when the follow­

ing inscription was found beneath them: "Misero

regi servantur." In after times this example was

but too frequently followed; and it may be said with

truth that the Romans themselves were the principal

destroyers of their own city.

The Barbariam at Rome. — After two sieges,

or rather blockades, in 408 and 409, by the Goths

3 B 4

