SCYTHTA. 943 SCYTHIA.

17 vdaleuJe change can be proved, or even reason-'

h rupowed. Who can lie shown to have eliminated

if drnsitt Scythian population from any definite

niuaa occupancy? With the Greeks and Ro-

11 the negative evidence is nearly conclusive to

# urt that no such elimination ever took place,

ill lie Barbarians might have displaced each

*t a admitted; but there is no trustworthy evi-  
?-t to their having done so in any single- instance.

i .ifinioos in favour of such changes rest upon

Ut the loose statements of insufficiently-informed

.i*rs, or the supposed necessity of accounting for

r appearance and change of certain names by

-us of certain appearance and changes of popula­  
te

T:.i bearings of this will appear in the notice of

Ethnology of Scythia. They appear also under

m

Of the Sacae. to nomine, the history is obscure­

ly- sense, indeed, it is a noneutity. There is no

■ieal historian of the Sacae. How far the eth-

aprt can infer tbem is a question which will be

dad in the sequel.

A the history of the populations akin to the

ae. the details are important; but then it is a his-

'<>< the MasaagetAe, Parthi, &c, a history full of

sal pjehmiraries and points of inference rather

5 rotimony.

'be Scythia of all the authors between Herodotus

f^olemy means merely the country of the

Liar, the Scythae being such northern nations

-T-Soat being, eo nomine, Sarmatian, were Ha-  
sou and Hippemolgi; their habits of milking

- lira and travelling in tented wagons being  
r -axt gennine characteristic* These it was

■j determined the views of even Strabo, whose

of Germania and Galatia (already noticed)

i n do room for a Scythia or even a Sarmatia;

una, which is to Ptolemy as Germania was to

be. far the Sannatia of Ptolemy leaves no room

—->'pe tor a Scythia; indeed, it cuts deeply into

be Scythia, the only

triiLi or I*tolkmv.—The Scythia of Ptolemy

rlwrcJ/ Asiatic, falling into, 1. The Scythia

. the Imaus. 2. The Scythia beyond the

a.

n li a geographical division, not an ethno-

L one. Scythae Alauni are especially recog-

i* a population of European Sarmatiu.

i'l-tit-my a Sannatia seems to have been formed

t aa extension of the area of the lleindotcan

c-Aiae, his Scythia seems to have grown out

*■ ruterri Scythae of the Herodotean Si-ythia,  
.!* Scythae of Orenburg. It did not grow out

'mury otf tlie Sacae, inasmuch as they are

uand separately; even as the Jazygcs of the

• were separated from the Saniialians. The

Kau-ir, however, of the Herodotean account

lake the Sacae Scythians. They may be

*>J af first.

x Sacae or Ptolkmy were bounded by the

mm ob tfa* west, the Scythians on the north,

i* S-rra on the east. Tbev wero nomads,

r.t livni, and resident in woods and caves.

iuntain-nujee of the Comedi (tj Ku'UTj5tiv

I) was in their country ; m> was the Stone

p {A*#mrt Tl-yyoi). The populations were:

T:* Caratae and Comari along the Jaxartes.

- Coeiic, on the Comedian mountain. 4.  
IE M^r'ie along the range of tho Ascatancas

zra-Taaf). 5. lu the interjacent country, the

Grynaei Scythae; and, 6, the Toornae; south of

whom, along the Imaus, 7, the Byltae. (l'tol. vi.

13.)

Scythia intiia Imaim.—Bounded on the S.

and K. by Sogdiana, Margiana, and the Sarae; on

the W. by the Caspian and Sannatia Asiatica; on

the N. by a terra incognita; and on the E. by the

northern prolongation of the Imaus. (Ptol. vi. 14.)

Rivers. — The Kliyinmus, the Daix, the Jaxartes,

the Iasrus, and the Polytimetus.

Mountains.— The eastern part of the Montes

Hyperborei, the Montes Alani (observe the reappear­

ance of this name), the Montes Khymmici, the Muni

Nomssus, the MM. Aspisii, Tapyri, Syebi, Anarei,—

all W. of the Imaus.

Populations.—The Alani Scythae (on the con­

fines of the terra incognita), the Suabeni, the Ala-

norsi, S. of whom the Saetiani, and Massaei, and Syebi;

and (along the Imaus) the Tectosaces and (on the

eastern head-waters of the Mia) the Khobosci, S. of

whom the Asmani; and then the Paniardi, S. of

whom, along the river, the district called Canodipsas,

S. of which the Coraxi; then the Orgasi, after whom,

as far as the sea (i. e. the Caspian, in this chapter

called Hyrcanian), the Erymmi, with the Asiotae on

the E. of them, succeeded by the Aorsi; after whom

the Jazartae, a great nation along the river of the

same name; then S. of the Saetiani, the Mologeni

and Samnitae, as far as the MM. Rhymmici. Then,

S. of the Massaei and MM. Alani, the Zaratae and

Sasones; and further W. and as far as the MM.

Rhymmici, the Tybiacae, succeeded by the Tabieni,

S. of the Zaratae, and the Iastae and Machaetegi

along the Mons Norossns; S. of whom the Norosbes

and Norossi, and the Cachagae Scythae along

the Jaxartae. On the W. of the MM. Aspisii, the

Aspisii Scythae; on the E. the Galactophagi Scythae;

E. of tho MM. Tapuri and the Suebi, the Tapurei;

and above the MM. Anarei and the Mons Ascatancas,

the Scythae Anarei, and the Ascatancae and Ariacae

along the Jaxartes, S. of whom the Namastae; then

the Sagarancae, and, along the Oxus, the Rhibii,

with their town Davaba.

Scythia kxtka Ihaum was bounded by Scythia

intra Imaum, the Sacae, the Terra ln:ognita, and

the Seres. It contained the western part of MM.

Auxacii, Cash and Emodi, with the source of tho

river Oechardus. (Ptol. vi. 15.)

Its Populations were the Abii Scythae, the Hippo-

phagi Scythae, the Cliatae Scythae, the Charaunaei

Scythae; the designation Scythae being applied to

each.

Districts.—The Auxacitis, the Cask. (>? KaWa

,\avfl). the Achasa (17 'Ax-wra xwpa).

Towns.—Auxacia, Issedon, Scytliira, Ciiaurana,

Seta.

The remarks that applied to the Sarmatia Asiatlra

of Ptolemy apply here. Few names can be safely

identified. Neither is it safe to say through what

languages the information came. Some words sug­

gest a Persian, some a Turk source, some are Mon­

gol. Then the geography is obscure. That the

range of Pamer was unduly prolonged northwards is

evident [Imaus]; this being an error of the geo­

grapher. The courses, however, of the Oxus and

Jaxartes may themselves have changed.

The prolongation of the Pamer range being carried

in a northern and north-eastern direction, so as to

include not only the drainages of the Oxus and Jax­

artes, but that of the Balkash Lake as well, givoa

us the line of the Imaus ; the terra incognita to the

