932 SCIRITIS. BOORS

The evidence of Jornandes makes them Alans

(" Sciri et Satagariietceteri Alanorum," Ret. Get. 49),

evidence which is important, since Peria, the notary

of the Alan kingCandax,was the writer'sgrandfather.

They are made by Sidonius (CVirm. vii. 322) part of

Attila'a army, by Jornandes subjects of Odoacer,

by Procopina members of the Goth and Alan alli­

ance. They were, almost certainly, a Scythian

tribe of Kherson, who during the period of the

Greek settlements harassed Olbia, and, during the

llyxantine period, joined with the other barbarians

of the Lower Danube agitata Rome. Of these,

the chief confederates were the Heruli and Turci-

lingi; with wliom they found their way as far west

as Bavaria. The present country of Styrvi (Styer-

vwr£)=the March of the Stiri or Sciri, the change

from 5c to St being justified by the Bavarian Count

Von Sehiem in one part of a document of the 10th

century being made a Comet de Slim in another.

Add to this the existence of a Nemus Scirorum in

Bavaria. (See Zeuss, s. c. Sciri).

The Sciri of the later writers were probably a

portion of the Scythians of the parts between the

Danube and J>on, under a newer and more spe­

cific name. The transplantation into Styria along

with an inroad of Uldis, king of the Huns, seems to

have hroken up the name and nation. Sozomenes saw

the remnant« of them labouring as slaves in the mines

of Mount Olympus in Bithynia (ix. 5). [R. G. L.]

SCIRITIS (v 2Ktp7ns: Kth. ^Kiplrns, fern.

^Kipiris), a rugged and barren mountainous dis­

trict, in the north of Laconia, between the upper

Kurotas on the west and the Oenus on the east, and

extending north of the highest ridge of the moun­

tains, which were the natural boundary between

Laconia and Arcadia. The name probably expressed

the wild and rugged nature of the country, for the

word signified hard and rugged {oKipov, <rnupov,

oKkwpov, Hesych.), It was bounded by the Mae-

Daliana on the north, and by the Parrhasians on the

west, and was originally part of Arcadia, but was

conquered at an early period, and its inhabitants

reduced to the condition of Lacedaemonian Perioeci.

(Steph. B. s. v. 2k£?os; Thuc. v. 33.) According

to Xcnophon they were subjected to Sparta even

before the time of Lycurgus. {De Rep, Imc. c. 12.)

They were distinguished above all the other Perioeci

f»r their bravery; and their contingent, called the

^Ktp'irTjs Ad^or, 600 in number, usually occupied

the extreme left of the Lacedaemonian wing. (Thuc.

v. 67, 68.) They were frequently placed in the

post of danger, and sometimes remained with the

king as a body of reserve. (Xen. Cyr. it, 2. § 1,

HeU. v. 2. § 24, v. 4. § 52; Diod. xv. 32.) On the

first invasion of Laconia by the Thebans the Sciritae,

together with the Perioeci of Caryae and Sallasia,

revolted from Sparta, in consequence of which their

country was subsequently ravaged by the Lacedae­

monians. (Xen. HeU. vii. 24. § I.) The only towns

ill the Sciritis appear to have been Sours and

Okum, called lum by Xenophon. The latter is the

only place in the district mentioned in historical

times [Okitm]. Scirus may perhaps have been the

same M Scirtonium (^.Ktprwi'tov), in the district of

Aegytis. (Paus. viii. 27. § 4; Steph. B. t. r.)

The road from Sparta to Tegea, which is the

same as the present road from Sparta to TripolitzA,

led through the Senilis. (Leake, Morea, vol. iii.

p. 28; Boblsje, Recherche*, tfc. p. 75; Ross, Reisen

im Pehponnes, p. 178; Curtius, Pelojtonnesos, vol.

ii. p. 263.)

SCIRO'XIA SAXA. [Mbgara. p. 316, fc.}

SCIRRL [Sciri.]

SCIRTIA'XA, a station on the Epnitua rat

between Ilrucida (Presixt) and CastracrPi

The name is no doubt connected with tiut of tit

Sci rton es ( 2ff IpTovt i), whom Ptolemy (iii. 17. $ I)

couples with the Dassareli&n PiruiJae u

tribes near Macedonia. [LB.J.]

sci'RTONES. [DrmiaBij

SCIRTCXIUM. [Scirito.]

SC1BTUS (2«fproj, Procr.p. de Art. 5,7)

river of Mesopotamia, a western tributary d m

Chaboras (Chabw). It flowed from 25

and ran past Kdessa. (Ckron. K-ku. in

Bibl. Or. i. p. 388.) It* name, which

skipping or jumping (from ataprav). o aunt*

been derived from its rapid coarse and id *

overflowings; and its present name of l*auam

the same thing. [T.Eft]

SCIRUM. [ArncA, p. 326,1.]

SCISSHM. [CisfiA.]

SCI'TTIUM. [Sotiatks.]

SCODRA (h iK&pa, Ptol. ii. 16. (17.) f

2K<Jo>ai, Hierocl. p. 656: Eth. Scodrecsos Lh\

26), one of the more important towns of

Illyricum (Montenegro), the capital of the*

seated at the southern extremity of lb*

beatis, between two rivers, the Clausula ae tb»

and the Barbanna on the W. (Liv. xliT. 31),

a distance of 17 miles from the tea-coast (f^aSj

22. s. 26). It was a very strong place, aid

tius, king of the Ulyrians, attempted to Ad

against the Romans, b. c. 168, but was deAa*

a battle under the walls. Pliny erroneooiJy

it on the Drtfo (L c). At m later peried il ll

the chief city of the province Praevalitnna.

the present Scutari, which is also the nam

lake Labeatis. (Wilkinson, Dalmaiia md J

negro, vol. i. p. 476.) fT- H.

SCOLLIS (2*oAAir), a mountain b«tw<

and Achaia, now called Sandamtriviiko. 331

high, from which the river Laritas rips

forms the boundary between Achaa ■

Strabo describes it as adjacent to Moafit

which was connected with the range rf

thus. (Strab. viii. p. 341.) Strabo also

it with the ''Olenian Rock* of H»*a*.

617; Strab. viii. p. 387: Leake, J/orea,

pp. 184, 230; Petopomftesiaca, p. 203-)

SCOLOTL [Scttuia]

SCOLUS Thoc. v. 18; 81

p. 408), a town of Chalcidice near Ulynta*

tioned together with Spartolua, in the treaty

Athena and Sparta in the tenth year of tl

ponnesian War. [E-

6COLUS (2w£Aoj: Kth. 2»Ai«t, 2n

town of Boeotia, mentioned by Homer (A aV

and described by Strabo as a vittag* of

sopia below Cithaeron (ix. p. 40£X

his description of the route from Platans fee

savs, that if the traveller were, nntseanj at 1

the Asopus, to follow that river for

he would arrive at the ruins of Scoiss,

was an unfinished temple of DemeAer 1

4. § 4). Mardonius in his march firtna

Plataca passed through Scorns. (;

When the Lacedaemonians WW

Boeotia, it. c. 377, the Theoacts

trenchment in front of Scolus, wbiefa

tended from Mr. Cithaemo to the

HeU. v. 4. § 49, AscsiL S.) Scraba

