THKACIA. 1177 THRACIA.

nverwd it liave been almost invariably engaged in

ulitary enterprises, and too much occupied with

tar immeiiiate object* to bave either opportunity

r inclination, even had they possessed the necessary

■;J locations, to observe and describe the natural

iiares of the country. What adds to the difficulty

f ilie writer on the classical geography of Thrace

':hf unfortunate loss of the whole of that por-

■ii of the seventh book of Strabo which was de-

oted to the subject. Strabo, in several parts of

a work, treats incidentally of Thrace: but this is

j--or substitute for the more systematic account of

which ha* perished, and of which little more than

table of contents has been preserved in the meagre

AhtM which alone remains of it.

In modern times, several travellers have en-

iTmired, with various degrees of success, to explore

(T-tiDlnr; and some of them have published the

<<ult» uf their investigations; but it is evident from

nr very frequent disagreement as to the sites of

<■ puces which Uiey attempt to identify with those

ntuawd in ancient writers, that as yet the neces-

rr ilaia have not been obtained ; and the Itincr-

instead of assisting, not seldom add to the

L^oJtv of the task, and render its accomplishment

hopeless. Moreover, the extent of country

Amitml by these travellers was very limited. M The

•jiUioous region of Khodope, bounded on the west

tlte Strrmon. on the north and east by the Hcbrus,

d'« the south by the Aegean, is a terra incognita,

u-pl the few Grecian colonies on the coast. Very few

"^tars have passed along or described the southern

tine* ruad ; while the region in the interior, apart

''u the highroad, was absolutely unexplored until the

* of 11 Viquesnel in 1847. (Grote, L c.)

iht results of this traveller's researches have not

t, w« believe, appeared in a complete and connected

-L His reports to the French minister by whom

*ks commissioned are published in the work  
**iy referred to; hut most of them are mere out-  
ea, written on the sjot from brief notes. They

•Uio much tliat is valuable and interesting; but

u*e except their author could make full use of

*e ; aad it is to be hoped that he may be able to  
ffoy the materials so ably collected in the corn­

el j.»n of a work that would dispel much of the

-arity that at present rests upon the country.

V^uesoel was engaged little more than a year in

rare, a period evidently insufficient for its complete

Juration ; accordingly he seems to have devoted

]miripal attention to its geology, especially of the

[(Maintain systems, above all in the district of

adope.

\ccurding to Ami Bone's chart of the geological

kctnre uf the globe, copied in Johnstons Physical

las, the three principal geological formations in

race are: (l)the crystalline schistous, com pre-

'ling all the granitoid rocks ; this occupies the

jwruoa of the country, and a small district on the

aine, immediately S. of the Harm us: (2) the

iarr, extending over the basin of the Hcbrus:

the primary stratifications, or the transition

f*. including the carboniferous formations; this

-f-ies Lhe SE. part of the country, and a region S.  
tiit? Ha em us, and W. of the tertiary formation

mentioned. Near the sources of the Bourghaz,

oesfiel found volcanic rocks (p. 213).

I be surface of Thrace is, on the whole, decidedly

mtaioons, the vast plains spoken uf by Virgil

sav xu. 13) belonging to Moesia. From the great

.-e of Uaemus, three chains of mountains branch

off towards the SE., and with their various rami­

fications occupy nearly the entire country. The

must westerly of these begins at the NW. extremity

of the boundary line, and soon separates into two

almost parallel ranges, the Pangaeus and Ithodope,

which are separated from each other by the river

Nest us ; the former filling up the whole space be­

tween that river and the Strymon, the latter the

district E. of the Nest us and S\\\ of the Hebrus.

both I'angaeus and Khodope extend down to the

coast of the Aegean, and the latter is continued

parallel to it as far K. as the Hebrus. The central

offshoot of the Haemus branches off between the

sources of the Hebrus and the Tonius, and extends

to their junction near Hadrianopolis, The most

easterly chain diverges from the Haemus about 100

miles W. of the Euxine, to the W. shore of which it

is nearly parallel, though it gradually approaches

nearer to it from N. to S.: it extends as far as the

Bosporus, and with its lateral offshoots occupies

nearly the whole country between the E. tributaries

of the Hebrus and the Euxine. The central and E.

ranges appear to have had no general distinctive

names; at least we are not aware that any occur in

ancient writers : the modern name of the most east­

erly is the Strandja-Dagh. A continuation of tliis

range extends along the shore of the Propontis, and

is now called the Ttkir-Dagh.

The loftiest peaks, among these mountains, belong

to Khodope, and attain an elevation of about 8500

feet (Viquesnel, p. 325); the summits of the

Strandja-Vagk, are 2600 feet high (Id. p.314);

those uf the Tthir-Dagh, 2300 (Id. p. 315); the

other mountains ure from 2000 to 600 feel in

height (Id. pp. 314, 315). The Haemus is not

more than 4000 feet high, in that portion of it which

belongs to Thrace. It is obvious from these measure­

ments that the statements of some of the ancients

I that the summits of the Tliracian mountains were

| covered with eternal snow (ifyntcmv opto. r^o'cPTO,

I Horn. Ji xiv. 227), and that from the highest peak

\ of the Haemus the Adriatic and the Euxine could

be seen, are mere fancies. Strabo(vii. pp. 313.317)

points out the inaccuracy of this notion. An in­

teresting account is given by Livy (xl. 21, 22) of

the ascent of Haemus by Philip V., who shared in

the popular belief in question. Livy states plainly

'enough his conviction that Philip's labour, which was

} far from slight, was thrown away ; but he and his

I attendants were prudently silent upon the subject,

not wishing, says Livy, to be laughed at for their

pains. Yet Florus, who alludes to the same cir­

cumstance (ii. 12), but makes Perseus theinountain-

i climber, assumes that the king's object was accom-

I plished, and that the bird's-eye view of his domi­

nions, obtained from the mountain top, assisted him

in forming a plan for the defence of his kingdom,

with reference to his meditated war with Rome,

j Mela too repeats the erroneous statement (ii. 2).

The main direction of the rivers of Thrace is from

N. to S., as might be inferred from the foregoing de-

; script ion of its mountain system. The Strymon forms

its \V. boundary. In the lower part of its course,

it expands to a considerable width, and was called

Lake Cercinitis, into which Mowed a smaller river, the

Angites (Herod, vii. 113) ; next, towards the E.f

comes the Nestus ; then, in succession, the Travus,

which falls into Lake Bistouis, the Schoenus, the

Hebrus, the principal river of Thrace, and lastly

the Melas. All these rivers fall into the Aegean.

Several small streams flow into the Hellespont and

