1050 ffVSA. souM

§ 5.) Diodorus (xix, 16, xvii. 65) and Ca-ssiodoras

(vii. 15) speak of the strength ami splendour of its

citadel; and the latter writer aifums that tliere was

a splendid palat e there, built fur Cyrus hy Memnon.

Besides this structure, Pliny speaks of a celebrated

temple of Diana (/. c.; see also Mart. Capelia, vi.

dt Indtit, p. 225, ed. Grotius). in all probability

that of the Syrian goddess Anaitis; while St. Jerome

adds, that Daniel erected a town there (Hieronym. is)

Am.), a story which Joseph us narrates, with less

probability, of Kcbatana. {Ant. x. 11.) Sum wis

one of the capitals at which the kings of Fersia were

wont to spend a portion of the year. Thus Cyrus,

according to Xenophon. lived there daring the three

months of the spring. (Cyrop, viii. 6. § 22.)

Strata offers the most probable reason for this

custom, where he states that Stlaiana was peculiarly

well suited for the royal residence from its central

position with respect to the rest of the empire, and

from the quiet and orderly character of its govern­

ment (/. c.) From these and other reasons, Sus:i

appears to have been the chief treasury of the

Persian empire (Herod, v. 49); and how vast were

the treasures laid up tliere by successive kings, may

he gathered from the narrative in Arrian, of the

sums paid by Alexander to his soldiers, and of the

presents made by him to his leading generals,on the

occasion of his marriage at Susa with Barsine and

Parjaatia (Curt. vii. 4, 5): even long after Ales*

Slider's death, Antigonus found a great amount of

plunder still at Susa. (Diod. xix 48.)

With regard to the modern site to be identified

as that of the ruins of Susa, there has been consider­

able difference of opinion in modern times. This

has, however, chiefly arisen from the scarcity of

travellers who have examined the localities with any

sufficient accuracy. The first who did so, Air.

Kinneir, at once decided that the modern ,Sus,

siiuated at the junction of Kerkhah and river of

J>h, must represent the Shushan of Daniel, the Susa

of profane authors. (Travels, p. 99; com p. Mal­

colm, Hist. Persia^ i. p. 256.) Rennell had indeed

susj»ected as much lung before (G'eogr. J/eroilof. i.

p. '102); but Vincent and others had advanced the

rival claim of Sinister. (Anc. Commerce, \. p. 439.)

The question has been now completely set at rest,

by the careful excavations which have been made

during the last few years, first by Colonel (now Sir

W. F.) Williams, and secondly by Mr. Loftus. The

results of their researches arc given by Mr. Loftus in

a paper read to the Royal Society of Literature in

November, 1855. (Transactwiu, vol. v. new series.)

Mr. Loftus found three great mounds, measuring

together more than 3£ miles in circumference, and

above 100 feet in height; and, on excavating, laid

hare the remains of a gigantic colonnade, having a

frontage of 343 feet, and a depth of 244, consisting

of a central square of 36 columns, flanked to the N.,

E,t and W. by a similar number—the whole arrange­

ment being nearly the same as that of the Great

Hall of Xerxes at PersepolU. A great number of

other curious discoveries were made, the most im­

portant being numerous inscriptions in the cuneiform

character. Enough of these has been already

deciphered to show, that some of the works on I

mound belong to tin x'

other important but

the only nv-

dedicated to the godJaaa Tssla

A Greek inscription saaWaajj

the base of a column. u<j sUtiaf t

was the governor of So-iini Tbl

monument in the uei^hboossi,!

and believe to be the twb of IsaV

question, however, tiiat it is i

the Mohammedan time*.

SUSIA'NA (h 2owr<a*ifMU

v. 46; Strab. xv. 729, At: flu

731; i} Zovfiids, Strab. il p.

vine* in the southern part of As

great measure of plain wanny, i

some ranges of ni"unUiu> to^*

ously given by different writers MO

imagine.! to include more*

trict of IVrnis. Generall;, its W

to have been, to the N, Media ■»

Chnrbanns and ('iimbalidos, fart*

I'ar.ichoathraj; to the K. the o<*l

]>arach"arlirns and the rieer Op*

Persian gulf from the moutheft'

of the Tigris: and to the W. the

talma and 15abr Ionia. (Cf. Ital

/. c, who, however, trails Susiaaa i

As a province it appears to haw

I'fpeciaUy in grain, but exposed ft

intense liOHt. (Strab. iv. p. 7S

Macedonians are said to hire il

/.c.) Its printipal moamaial ft

willed by I'iiny Charbanus aod (

s. 31). while a portion of ihe )U

belonged to this proriflce,

called riuAai 2wriJ<i. (Ftt,

Susiana was intersected hy

flowed either to the Tigris or Pft

high mountain water-bed whew

t.lf those Ihe principal «ere the

the Choaspes (Kerkkai). tta

Dii), the UedvjJion or IMvpn

Uroatis (Tali). The inhabit!

apjiear to have borne induflJ

Susii or Sudani, and, as inna

country, to have l«n devoted

ployment.-.: in the mountains,*

robbers, who, from time to tins;

to levy black mail even on thai

ing their fusses. (Strab. If

name, uheieby the people Iff

eai ly times, was Cissii (AMI!

laud" itself Cissia (Strab. IT. f

This name is clearly

the chief tribes of th«

repeatedlv mentioned

xi. p. 522; Arr. lad. 40;

were many different trib»

of Susiana; but it if

to what different

Among these,

robber tribe on

Mcs&abatae, who

now 1: -ti

olyafl

>ynoi

