ZACYNTHUS. ZAI.ECUS. 1335

assisted Dion in bia expedition to Syracuse with the

view of expelling the tyrant Dionysius, b. c. 357.

( Died. xvi. 6, seq.; Plot. Oion, 22, seq.) At the time

of the Roman wars in Greece we find Zacynthns in

the possession of Philip of Macedon. (Polyb. v. 102.)

In B. c. 211 the Roman praetor M. Valerius Lae-

vinus, took the city of Zacynthus, with the exception

of the citadel. (I.iv. xxvi. 24.) It was afterwards

restored to Philip, by whom it was finally surren­

dered to the Romans in B. c. 191. (Id. xxxvi. 32.)

In the Mithridatic War it was attacked by Archelaus,

the general of Mithridates, but he was repulsed.

(Appian, ilitkr. 45.) Zacynthus subsequently

shared the fate of the other Ionian islands, and is

now subject to Great Britain.

The chief town of the island, also named Zacyn-

thtu (I.iv. xxri. 14 ; Strab. x. p. 458; Ptol. iii.

14. § 13), was situated npon the eastern shore. Its

site is occupied by the modern capital. ZmU, but

nothing remains of the ancient city, except, a few

columns and inscriptions. The situation of the

town npon the margin of a semi-circular bay is

very picturesque. The citadel probably occupied

the aite of the modem castle. The beautiful

situation of the city and the fertility of the island

have been celebrated in all ages (a-oAd wi\u a

Zixvrtos, Theorr. Id. iv. 32; Slrab., Plin , 11. cc).

It no longer deserves the epithet of " woody," given

to it by lliimer (L c.) and Virgil (" nemorosa Za-

cyntoos," Aem. iii. 270) ; but its beautiful olive-

gardens, vineyards, and gardens, justify the Italian

proverb, which calls Zante the "flower of the

Levant."

The most remarkable natnral phenomenon in

Zante is the celebrated pitch-wells, which are accu­

rately described by Herodotus (iv. 195), and are

mentioned by Pliny (xxxv. 15. s. 51). They are

situated about 12 miles from the city, in a small

marshy valley near the shore of the Bay of Chieri,

on the SW. coast. A recent observer has given the

following account of them: "There are two springs,

the principal surrounded by a low wall; here the

pitch is seen bubbling np under the clear water,

which is about a foot deep over the pitch itself, with

which it comes out of the earth. The pitch-bubbles

rise with the appearance of an India-rubber bottle

until the air within bursts, and the pitch falls back

and run* off. It produces about three barrels a day,

and can be nsed when mixed with pine-pitch, though

in a pure state it is comparatively of no value. The

other spring is in an adjoining vineyard ; but the

pitch dues not bubble np, and is in fact only discern­

ible by the ground having a burnt appearance, and

by the feet adhering to the surface as one walks

over it. The demand for the pitch of Zante is

now very small, vegetable pitch being preferable."

(Bow en, in Murray's Handbook for Greece, p. 93.)

The existence of these pitcb-wells, as well as of

hot springs, is a proof of the volcanic

cow or ZACTSTIIUS.

agency at work in tho island ; to which it may be

added that earthquakes are frequent.

Pliny mentions Jit. Elatus in Zacynthus (" Mons

Elatus ibi nobilis," Plin. /. c), probably Mt. Siopo,

which raises its curiously jagged summit to the

height of 1300 feet above the eastern extremity of

the bay of Zante. (Dodwell, Tour through Grttct,

vol. i. p. 83, scq.)

ZADRACARTA [Taoae]

ZAGATIS (Zd-verru), a coast river in the E. part

of Pontus, discharging itself into the Euxine about

7 stadia to the east of Athenae; probably the same

river as the modern Sttcha Dere. (Arrian, Peripl.

P.E.p.\7; Anon. Peripl P. £. p. 15.) [L. S.]

ZAGO'RUS, or ZAGO'RL'M {Zayupoy or Zayu-

pov, Marcian. p. 73: Zdyttpa, Ptol. v. 4. § 5; Zd-

y»pa, Arrian, Peripl. P. E. p. 15; Zacoria, Tab.

/'■-.'. i. a town of Paphlagonia, on the coast of the

Euxine, between Sinope and the mouth of the Halys,

from the latter of which it was distant about 400

stadia. [L. S.J

ZAGRUS MONS '& Ziypot, rb Zdypoy bpot,

Polyb. v. 44; PtoL vi! 2. § 4 ; Strab. xi. p. 522),

the central portion of the great chain of mountains

which, extending in a direction nearly N. and & with

an inclination to the W. at the upper end, connects

the mountains of Armenia and the Caucasus with

those of Susiana and Persia. It separates Assyria

from Media, and is now represented by the middle

and southern portion of the mountains of KurduUin,

the highest of which is the well known Jiovandiz.

Near this latter mountain was the great highroad

which led from Assyria and its capital Nineveh into

Media, and, at its base, was in all probability the

site of the pass through the mountains, called by

Ptolemy cu too 7.j> voAtu (vi. 2. § 7). and by

Strabo, r) MnSov)) sriiAij (xi. p. 525). Polybiua

notices the difficulty and danger of this pass (v. 44),

which, from Colonel Rawlinson's narrative, would

seem to have lost none of its dangers (Rawlinson, in

Trans. Geogr. Soc. vol. x., Pau and Pillar of Aefi-

Shm). [V.]

ZAITUA or ZAUTHA (ZaoHo, Zosim. iii. 14), a

small town or fortified place in Mesopotamia, on the

Euphrates, to the SE. of mm. It is said by

Ammianua to have been called Zaitha (or more pro­

perly Zaila) from the olive trees (xxiii. 5. § 7), wiiich

we must suppose grew there, though the climate is

very hot for that tree. He adds that it was celebrated

for the monument erected by the soldiers to the

emperor Gordianus. Zosimus, on the other hand,

places this monument at Dara (/. c), in which

Eutropius agrees with him (ix. 2). Ptolemy calls

it Zeitha (Z«9o, v. 18. § 2). [Dura.] [V.]

ZALACUS (rb ZdAaKor Spot, Ptol. iv. 2. §§ 14,

19), a mountain chain of Mauritania near the river

Chinalaph, the highest and most rugged branch of

the Atlas in this neighbourhood. Now the Wan-

nashreete or Gueneteril. (Cf. Shaw, TrartU, i. p.

74.) [T. H. D.]

ZALDAPA (ZdAfcnro, Proeop. de Aed. iv. 11.

p. 308), a town in the interior of Lower Moesia.

It is called Saldapa by Theophylact (2 'A!a»a,

i. 8), and Zeldepa by Hierocles. (ZiAJVva, p.

637). [T. H. D.]

ZALE'CUS (ZdATixot, or ZdAi<rarof, in Ptol. v. 4.

§ 3), a small river on the coast of Paphlagonia, dis­

charging itself into the Euxine at a distance of 210

stadia west of the Halys. (Marcian. p. 73.) At

its mouth there was a small town of the same name,

about 90 stadia from Zagorus, or Zagorum (Anon.

4«4

