136 LATIUM. LATIUM.

limestone mountains, frequently rising to a great

height, and very abruptly, while in other cases their

sides are clothed with magnificent forests of oak

and chestnut trees, and their lower slopes are well

adapted for the growth of vines, olives, and corn.

The broad valley of the Trerua, which extends from

the foot of the hill of Praeneste to the valley of the

Liris, is bordered on both sides by hills, covered with

the richest vegetation, at the back of which rise the

l«fty ranges of the Volscian and Hernican mountains.

This valley .which is followed throughout by the course

of the Via Latina, forms a natural line of communica­

tion from the interior of Latium to the valley of the

Liris, and so to Campania; the importance of which

in a military point of view is apparent on many occa­

sions in Human history. The broad valley of the

Liris itself opens an easy and unbroken communica­

tion from the heart of the Apennines near the Lake

Fucinus with the plains of Campania. On the other

side, the Anio, which has its sources in the rugged

mountains near 7VeriT not far from those of the Liris,

flows in a S\V. direction, and after changing its

course abruptly two or three times, emerges through

the gorge at Ticoli into the plain of the Roman

Campagna,

The greater part of Latium is not (as compared

with some other parts of Italy) a country of great

natural fertility. On the other hand, the barren and

desolate aspect which the Campagna now presents

is apt to convey a very erroneous impression as to its

character and resources. The greater part of the

volcanic plain not only affords good pasturage for

ftheep and cattle, but is capable of producing con­

siderable quantities of corn, while the slopes of the

hills on all sides are well adapted to the growth

of vines, olives, and other fruit-trees. The wine of

the Alhan Hills was celebrated in tiro days of Horace

(Hot. Carm. iv. 11. 2, Sat ii. 8. 16), while the figs

of Tusculutn, the hazel-nuts of Rraeneste, and the

pears of Crustuminm and Tilmr were equally noted

for their excellence. (Macrob. Sat. ii. 14, 15; Cato,

R. It. 8.)

In the early ages of the Koman history the culti­

vation of com must, from the number of small towns

scattered over the plain of Latium, have been carried

to a far greater extent than we find it at the present

day; but under the Koman Km pi re, and even before

the close of the Republic, there appears to have been

a continually increasing tendency to diminish the

amount of arable cultivation, and increase that of

pasture. Nevertheless the attempts that have been

made even in modern times to promote agriculture

in the neighbourhood of Kome have sufficiently proved

that its decline is more to be attributed to other

causes than to the sterility of the soil itself. The

tract near the sea-coast alone is sandy and barren,

and fully justifies the language of Fabius, who called

it " agrum rnaeerrimuni, liltorusifsimumqne" (Sen'.

ad A en i. 3). On the other hand, the slopes of

the A loan Hills are of great fertility, and are still

studded, as they were in ancient times, with the villas

of Roman nobles, and with gardens of the greatest

richness.

The climate of Latium was very far from being a

healthy one, even in the ma^t nVm rolling times of

Rome, though the greiter amount of population and

cultivation tended to diminish the effects of the

malaria which at the present day is the scourge of

the district. Strabo tells us that the territory of

Ardea, as well as the tract between Antiura and

J.auuviuiii, and extending from thence to the routine

Marshes, was marshy and unwholesome (v. p. 21IX

The I'outine plains themselves are described as ** pes­

tiferous" (Sil. Ital. viii. 379), and all the attempt*

made to drain them seem to have produced but

little effect. The unhealthiness of Ardea is noticed

both by Martial and Seneca as something proverbial

(Mart iv. 60; Seneca, Ep. 105): but, besides! this,

expressions occur which point to a much more

general diffusion of malaria. Livy in one passage

represents the Roman soldiers as complaining that

they had to maintain a constant struggle '* in aride

atque pestilenti, circa urbem, solow(Liv. vii. 3*0;

and Cicero, in a passage where there was moch lea*

room for rhetorical exaggeration, praises the choirs

of Romulus in fixing his city " in a healthy spot ia

the midst of a jicstilential region." (** Locnin oVtegit

in rtgione pestilenti salubrem," Cic. de Rep. ii. 6.)

But we learn also, from abundant allusions in

ancient writers, that it was only by comparison that

Rome itself could be considered healthy; even in

the city malaria fevers were of frequent occurrence

in summer and autumn, and Horace scales of lis*

heats of Bummer as bringing in ** fresh figs and

funerals." (Hor. Ep.\. 7. 1—9.) FrontinusaUoext-U

the increased supply of water as tending to remove

the causes which had previously rendered Rome

nottrriousfvr its unhealthy climate ("causae gravjnr »

coeli, quibus apud vet eras urbis infamis aer fuiL*

Front in. tie Aquaed. § 88). But the great accu­

mulation of the population at Rome itself mast have

operated as a powerful check ; for even at the present

day malaria is unknown in the most densely popu­

lated parts of the city, though these are the lowest

in point of position, while the hills, which were then

thickly peopled, but are now almost uninhabited,

are all subject to its ravages. In like manner in

the Campagna, wherever a considerable nucleus of

population was once formed, with a certain extent

of cultivation around it, this would in itself tend to

keep down the mischief; and it is jm>bable tliat,

even in the most flourishing times of the Roman

Umpire, this evil was considerably greater than it

had been in the earlier ages, when the numerous

free cities formed so many centres of {papulation and

agricultural industry. It is in accordance with tins

view that we find the malaria extending its ravages

with frightful rapidity after the fall of the Roman

Empire and the devastation of the Campagnn; and

a writer of the 11th century speaks of the deadly

climate of Rome in terms which at the present day

would appear greatly exaggerated. (Trims I>»-

miauus, cited by Bunsen.) The unhealt bines*

arising from this cause is, however, entirely coofionl

to the plains. It ia found at lite present day that

an elevation of 350 or 400 feet above their lerel

gives complete immunity; and hence Tibur, To*-

culum, Arina, Lauuvium, and all the other cities

that were built at a considerable height above the

plain were perfectly healthy, and were re**>rtad t<»

during the summer (in ancient as well aa modern

times) by all who could afford to retreat frwn the

city and its immediate neighbourhood. (See on thi*

subject Tournon, hTtudt* Statiitiqves s*r Rom*, lir. i.

chap. 9; Bunsen, Beschreibtmg tier Stadt Rom. vol. i.

pp. 98—108.)

IV. HtsTonr.

1. Origin and Affinities of the Latime.— All

ancient writers are agreed in representing the Latin*,

properly to called, or the inhabitants of Latium in

the restricted oen.se of the term, as a distinct pwjV

