R01IA. ROMA. 747

r,- land, the estimate cf Dureau do la Malic is

u bnbtedlj modi too lgw.

He only secure dtUa which we possess on the

- l in Ui! records of tie number of cithenswho

■ .r.ed the ctMovina or imperial largesses, for it is

t.t uoring the imperial limes that we can profess

.Tike any calculation. We leara from the Mvnu-

^Nryromm that Angustus, in his 12th

<iuiur, distributed a pecuniary gift to 320,000

'H plAit urbana. (" Consul xn. trecentis et

C«n laillibus plebei urbanae eexagenos denarius

-UTi deci," tnb. iii.) The recipients of this  
issiy were all males, and probably formed the

bale free male population of Borne, with the ex-

7. n if the senators, knights, and aliens. Women

J of ■ tender age did not participate in these

tni oites. It had been customary for the latter

U idaaiued to participation after the age of ten;

t Aarastus appears to have extended his liberality

i-i! wanper children.- (" Ne minores quidem

t h prsetehit, quamvis nonnisi ab undecimo aeta-

*»*rcipere consnesseut," Suet Aug. 41.) The  
»'-• uii-jus of corn seem to have been regulated on

nctar principles, as these were regular, not extra-

iajrr like the largesses. From these the chil-

■s ••■!» prubably excluded, and there was, perhaps,

crater inquiry made into the titles of the re.

■» u Thus we leam from the Hon. Ancyranum

- '.tito« who received com in the 13th con-  
..' ■< Augustus amounted to rather more than

'j!'.m (Cf. I>i.m Cass. Iv. 10.) From the same

ii^>: i: appears that three largesses made by

c\»:iu, if 400 sesfcrrc* per man, were never dis-

fcus to fewer than 250.000 (crsons. (" Quae

* «ii\wia prrveiierunt ad hominum millia nun-  
n m.nm quinquaginta et ducenU," /6., where

'k. Kin. Gack. L pt ii. p. 388, by erroneously

^-v Mrferfjvm instead of hominum, has increased

> aoiber of recipients to 625,000.) From a

v ui Sparlian's life of Septimius Severus

i'l") rt would seem that the number entitled to

•i" the dutributiuns of com had increased. That

-' >a'i that Severus left at his death wheat

io but for seven years, if distributed accord-

i' regular canon or measure of 75,000 modii

<?• Saw, if we calculate this distribution ac-

■c-: the system of Augustus, of five modii per

■ manly, and reckon thirty days to the month,

s tliu would Irate the number of recipients

tS.1000 (75,000 x 30 = 2.250,000 + 5 =

><**>). According to these statements we can

* j±*ct the average of the male plebeian popula-

> Hume during the first centuries of the Empire

r, thin 350.0OO: and at least twice as much

■ l j*t be added for the females and boys, thus

ati total of 1,050,000. There are no very ac-

data fat arriving at the numbers of the scna-

i sal knights. Buiisen ( Btxhr. i. p. 184), witb-

ibe grounds of his calculation, sets them

Hading their families, at 10,000. But this

rd*cuy much too low an estimate. We leam

■ ■ '■'tnius llaKcamasaensia (vi. 13) that in the

■a. pruression of the knights to the temple of

tfcry sometimes mustered to the number of

•' But tin must liave been very far from their

• t more. A great many must have been absent

< ''tans, ohl age. and other causes; and a tar

iraber must have been in the provinces and

- csiBtriej, serving with the armies, or em-  
'*- plAicnni. and in other public capacities.

"v families would probably, for the most part,

reside at Some. We see from the complaints of

Horace how the equestrian dignity was prostituted

in the imperial times to liberti and sliens, provided

they were rich enough for it. (A/xw/. iv. in Menam;

cf. Juv. i. 28.) We should, perhaps, therefore be

below the mark in fixing the number of knights and

senators at 15,000. If we allow a wife and one

child only to each, this would give the number of

individuals composing the senatorial and equestrian

families at 45,000, which is a small proportion to

1,050,000 freemen of the lower class. It may

be objected that marriage was very much out of

fashion with the higher classes at Rome during

the time of Augustus; but the omission was sup­

plied in another manner, and the number of kept

women and illegitimate children, who would count

as population just as well as the legitimate ones,

must have been considerable. In this calcula­

tion it is important not to underrate the numbers

of the higher classes, since they are very im­

portant factors in estimating the slave population,

of which they were the chief maintainers. The

preceding sums, then, would give a total of 1,095,000

tree inhabitants of Rome, of all classes. To these

are to be added the aliens residing at Rome, the

soldiers, and the slaves. The first of these classes

must have been very numerous. There must have

been a great many provincial persons settled at

Rome, for purposes of business or pleasure, who did

not possess the franchise, a great many Greeks, as

tutors, physicians, artists, &c, besides vast numbers

of other foreigners from all parts of the world. The

Jews alone must have formed a considerable popula­

tion. So large, indeed, waa the number of aliens at

Rome, that in times of scarcity we sometimes read of

their being banished. Thus Augustus on one oc­

casion expelled all foreigners except tutors and phy­

sicians. (Suet Aug. 42.) According to Seneca, the

greater part of the inhabitants were aliens. "Nul­

lum non hominum genus concurrit in urbem et vir-

tutibus et vitiis magna praemia pnnentem. Unde

domo quisque sit, quaere; videbis majorem partem

ease, quae relictis sedibus Buis venerit in maximum

quidem et pulcherrimam urbem, non tamen suam."

(Cons, ad Jlelv. c. 6.) In this there is no doubt

some exaggeration; yet we find the same complaints

reiterated by Juvenal:—

"Jam pridem Syrus in Tiberim delimit Orontes."

"Hie alia Sicyone, ast hie Amydor.e relicta.

Hie Andro, illc Saino, hie Trallihus nut A1.1-

bandis,

Ksquilias dictumque petunt a Yimine collcm,

Viscera nmgnarum doniuuni, dominique fa-

tali' (iii. 62, seq.).

It would perhaps, then, be but a modest estimate

to reckon the aliens and foreigners resident at Rome,

together with their wives and families, al 100,000.

The soldiers and the vigibs, or police, we can

hardly estimate at less than 23.0O0; and as many

of these men must have been marriisj, we may

reckon them, with their families, at 50,000. Henco

100,000 aliens and 50,000 military, &c, added to

the foregoing sum of 1,095,000, makes 1,245,000

fur the total miscellaneous free population of Rome.

There are great difficulties in the way of estimating

the slave population, from the total absence of any

accurate data. We can only infer generally that it

must have been exceedingly numerous—a fact that

is evident from many passages of the ancient authors.

