NEAPOLIS. NEAPOLIS. 409

Bee is throughout the long wars of the Republic.

(Pol. i. 20; Lit. un. 16.)

Though Neapolis thus passed gradually into the

condition of a mere provincial town of the Roman

stale, and, after the passing of the Lex Julia, became

an ordinary municipal town (Cic pro Balb. 8, ad

Fam. xiii. 30), it continued to be a flourishing and

populous place, and retained, to a far greater extent

than any other city in this part of Italy, its Greek

culture and institutions; while its population was

still almost exclusively Greek. Thus Strabo tells

us that, in bis time, though they had become Roman

citizens, they still had their gymnasia and quin­

quennial games, with contests of music and gym­

nastic exercises after the Greek fashion; and retained

the division into Phratries, a circumstance attested

al*> bv inscriptions still extant- (Strab. v. p. 246;

Xvr.'L.L. v. 85; Boeckh, C. I. vol. iii. p. 715.)

Before the close of the Republic,the increasing love of

Greek manners and literature led many of the upper

dashes among the Romans to resort to Neapolis for

education, or cultivation of these pursuits; while

niany more were attracted by the delightful and luxu­

rious climate or the surpassing beauty of the scenery.

It possessed also hot springs, similar to those of

Bajae. though inferior in number (Strab. 7. c); and

all these causes combined to render it one of the

favrmrite resorts of the Roman nobility. Its pros­

perity received a rude shock, in B. c. 82, during the

Civil War of Minus and Sulla, when a body of the

partisans of the latter, having been admitted by

treachery into the city, made a general massacre of

the inhabitants (Appiau, B. C. i. 89); but it seems

to have quickly recovered this blow, as it was cer­

tainly a flourishing city in the time of Cicero, and

continued such throughout the period of the Roman

Empire. It is not improbable that it received a

holy of fresh colonists under Sulla, but certainly

di 1 not then assume the title of a Colonia, as it is

repeatedly alluded to by Cicero as a Municipium.

(Cic ad Fan. xiii. 30, ad Alt. x. 13.) Under the

Empire we find it in inscriptions bearing the title of

a Colonia (Gruter, Inter, p. 110. 8, p. 373. 2);

but there is much doubt as to the period when it

obtained that rank. It is, however, noticed as such

by Petronius, and would seem to have first received

a colony under Claudius, to which subsequent addi­

tions were made under Titus and the Antonines.

(Lib Colon, p. 235; Zumpt, de Colon, pp. 259,

384: Petron. Satyr. 44, 76; Boeckh, C. I. voL iii.

jp.717,'718.)

Besides its immediate territory, Neapolis had

formerly possessed the two important islands of Ca-

prrae and Aenaria (Itdiiti); but the latter had been

wrested from it by force of arms, probably at the

peri'd of its first war with Rome. Capreae, on the

other hand, continued subject to Neapolis without

interruption till the time of Augustus, who, having

taken a fancy to the island, annexed it to the impe­

rial domain, giving up to the Neapolitans in ex­

change the richer and more important island of

Anuria. (Suet. Aug. 92; Dion Cass. Hi. 43.)

The same attractions which had rendered Neapolis

a favourite residence of wealthy Romans under the

IVpuMic operated with still increased force under the

Empire. Its gymnasia and public games continued

to be still celebrated, and the emperors themselves

corj|»cended to preside at them. (Suet yl tio\ 98.

Srr. 40; Veil. Pat. ii. 123; Dion Cass, lxiii. 26.)

Its ►trong tincture of Greek manners, which caused

U to be frequently distinguished as "the Greek

city," attracted thither many grammarians and

others; so that it came to acquire a reputation for

learning, and is called by Martial and Columella

"docta Parthenope" (Martial, v. 78. 14; Colum.

x. 134); while its soft and luxurious climate rendered

it the favourite resort of the indolent and effeminate.

Hence Horace terms it " otiosa Neapolis;" and Ovid,

still more strongly, "in otia natam Parthenopen."

(Hor. Epod. 5. 43; Ovid, Met. xv. 711; Stat Sib.

iii. 78—88; Sil. Ital. xii. 31.) The coasts on both

sides of it were lined with villas, among which the

most celebrated was that of Vedius Pollio, on the

ridge of hill between Neapolis and Puteoli, to which

he had given the name of Pausilvpus (naualAvros);

an appellation afterwards extended to the whole hill

on which it stood, and which retains to the present

day the name of Monte PosUipo. (Dion Cass. liv.

23; Plin. ix. 53. s. 78.) Neapolis was a favourite

residence of the emperor Nero, as well as of his pre­

decessor Claudius; and it was in the theatre there

that the former made his first appearance on the

stage, before he ventured to do so publicly at Rome.

(Tac. Ann. xiv. 10, xv. 33; Dion Cass. Ix. 6.) It

is well known also that it was for a considerable

period the residence of Virgil, who composed, or at

least finished, his Georgics there. (Virg. Georg. iv.

564.) Thither, also, his remains were transferred

after his death; and his tomb was still extant there

in the time of the poets Statins and Silius Italicus,

who paid to it an almost superstitious reverence.

The last-named poet himself died at Neapolis, where

he bad a villa, which was his favourite place of resi­

dence, as it was also that of Statius, who, in several

passages, appears to allude to it as the place of his

birth. (Donat I'it. Virg.'; Plin. Ep. iii. 7; Mar­

tial, xi. 49; Stat. Silv. iii. 5. 13, iv. 4. 51—55.)

It is clear that Neapolis was at this period a pro­

vincial city of the first class; and though we meet

with little historical mention of it during the later

ages of the Empire, inscriptions sufficiently prove

that it retained its consideration and importance.

It appears to have escaped the ravages of the Goths

and Vandals, which inflicted such severe blows upon

the prosperity both of Capua and Nola (But. Mis-

cell, xv. p. 553); and under the Gothic king The-

odoric, Cassiodorus speaks of it as still possessing a

numerous population, and abounding in every kind

of delight, both by sea and land. (Cassiod. Var. vi.

23.) In the Gothic wars which followed, it was

taken by Belisarius, after a long Biege, and a great

part of the inhabitants put to the sword, A. i>. 536.

(Procop. B. G. i. 8—10.) It was retaken by To-

tila in A. D. 542 (lb. iii. 6—8), but again recovered

by Narses soon after, and continued from this time

subject to the supremacy of the Byzantine Empire,

as a dependency of the exarchate of Ravenna, but

under the government of its own dukes. In the

eighth century Paulus Diaconus still speaks of it as

one of the "opulentissimae urbes" of Campania.

(Ui»t. Lang. ii. 17.) It was about this period that

it threw off the yoke of the Byzantine emperors, and

continued to enjoy a state of virtual independence,

until it was conquered in A. D. 1140 by the Normans,

and became thenceforth the capital of the kingdom

of Naples.

It is certain that the ancient city of Neapolis did

not occupy nearly so great a space as the modern

Naples, which is the largest and most populous city

in Italy, and contains above 400,0(10 inhabitants.

It appears to have extended on the E. as far as the

river Sebethus, a small stream still called the Sebeto,

