S40 MACRA. MACR0B1L

(-casus was taken, and tlie number found to be

12.000 men, women, and children." In earlier time*

the population was much more considerable; for

"wben Abou Dbaker Miked Mekka in A. II. ,114

(a. v. 926) 30.000 of the inhabitants were killed by

hisferocious soldiers." AH Bey'sestimatcin a.d. 1807

U much lower than Burckhardt's in A. I>. 1814.

Yet the former says " that the population of Mekka

diminishes sensibly. This city, which is known to

have contained more than 100,000 souls, does net at

present shelter mm than from 16,000 to 18,000;"

and conjectures th.it "it will be reduced, in the

course of a century, to the tenth part of the size it

now is.*1 The celebrated Kaaba demands a cursory

notice. It is situated in the midst of a great court,

which forms a parallelogram of about 536 feet by

356, surrounded by a double piazza. This sanc­

tuary, called, like that of Jerusalem, El-Hararn. is

situated near the middle of the city, which is built

in a narrow valley, having a considerable slope from

north to south. In order to form a level area for

the great court if the temple, the ground lias evi­

dently been hollowed out, subsequently to the

erection of the Kaaba, which is the only ancient

edifice in the temple. The building itself (called

by the natives BeU-VUah, the House of God), pro­

bably the most ancient sacred building now existing,

is a quadrilateral tower, the sides and angles of

which are unequal. Its dimensions are 38 feet by

29, and its height 34 feet 4 inches; built of square-

liewu but unpolished blocks of quartz, schorl, and

mica, brought from the neighbouring mountains.

The black stone, the most sacred object of vene­

ration, is built into the angle formed by the NE.

and SK. sides, 42 inches above the pavement. It

is believed by the Moslems to have been presented

to Abraham by the angel Gabriel, and is called " the

heavenly stone.'' Ali Bey says that "it is a frag­

ment of volcanic basalt, sprinkled throughout its

circumference with small, pointed, coloured crystals,

and varied with red feldspath upon a dark black

ground like coal." The famous well of Zenizem, in

the great mosk, is 56 feet deep to the surface of the

water, fed hy a co[aous spring ; but its water, says

Burckhardt, "however holy, is heavy to the taste,

and impedes digestion." Ali Bey, on the contiary,

says that it is wholesome, though warmer than the

air ever, in that hot climate. The town is further

supplied with rain-water preserved in cisterns: but

the best water in Mekka is brought by a conduit

frum the Ticinity of Asa at, six or seven hours

distant." (Ali Bey, Travels, vol. ii. pp. 74—114;

Burckhardt, TraveUin Arabia, pp. 94, &c.)[G.W.J

11ACKA (o Mo*oi)s, Strab.; Ptolemy has the

corrupt form MaxpaAAa: Matjra), a considerable

river of Northern Italy, rising in the Apennines and

flowing into the Tyrrhenian Sea near Luna. It was

under the Unman dominion the established limit be­

tween I.iguiia and Etruria (l'lin. iii. 5. s. 7; Klor.

ii. 3. § 4; Strab. v. p. 222; Vib. Scq. p. 14): but

at an earlier period the Ligurian tribe of the Apuani

occupied the country on both sides of it, and it was

not till after a lung struggle with that people that

the Komans were able to carry their anus as far as

the bunk* of the Macra. (Lie. xxxix 32, xl. 41.)

The Macra is one of the m<«t considerable of the

rivers on the l.igurian coast, but it still retains the

character of a mountain torrent, at times very vio-

^*. And impetuous, at others so shullow as to be

^■w unlit for navigation (Luran, ii. 426). The

t Lima arc situated un the left bauk of the

Magra, about a mile from the tea, while the cele­

brated Port of Luna (the Gulf of Sjkmm) a soma

miles distant to the \V., and separated from it by

an intervening range of hills [LukaJ. About lO

miles from its mouth the Magra receives firttn it*

\V. bank the waters of the Vara, also a formidable

torrent, which is in all probability the Boatks .if

Ptolemy (iii. 1. § 3). [E. H. B.]

MAC!;A COME, a place mentioned by Lrry

(xxxii. 13) along with Sperchiae. Its position is un­

certain, but it was perhaps a town of the Aeniaue*.

MACHIS, an island off the coast of Attica, also

called Helena. [Hki.kxa.]

MACKO'BII (Herod, iii. 17—25; Pirn. ri. 30.

s. 35, vii. 1. a. 2; Solin. 30. § 9 ; Mela. iii. 9. § 1 \

or the long-lived, might have been briefly enuris—

rated among the numerous and obscure tribes * liich

dwelt above Philae and the second cataract of list

Nile, were it not for the conspicuous position as­

signed to them by Herodotus. He describe* the

Macrobii as a strong and opulent nation, remarkable

for its stature, beauty and longevity, and, in smie

respects, as highly civilised. According to this his­

torian, a rumour of the abundance of gold in the

Macrobian territory stimulated the avarice of the

Persian king, Cambyses, who 1,-d a great artuj

against them: but in his haste he omitted to pro­

vide his host with food and water, and the city waa

distant many days' journey, and between the Macro­

bian land und Egy]*t lay sandy wastes, and the Per­

sians perished through drought and hunger, Cam­

byses alone and a small residue of his army returainft;

to Egypt. In the description of Herodotus, the must

important point is the geographical position assigned

to them. It is in the farthest south (J»l »p 'or.17

daAdo-cn, c. 17, To^{,7xaT« TV' Tri', e. 25) tl»«

limits of the habitable world, according to the know­

ledge of Herodotus. The Macrobian land was ac­

cordingly beyond the Arabian Gulf, on the •bore» of

the Indian ocean, and in that undefined and illimit­

able region called Barbaria by the ancient coomo-

graphers.

Travellers and writers on geography have advanorj

several theories respecting their jMisition in Afiwa.

Bruce (TVarrb, vol. iv. p. 43) supposes the Ma­

crobii to have been a tribe of Shangalla or lowlaisj

blacks. Itennell {Gtogr. System of Ii trod, ii- P-S9(

2nd edit,) identifies them with the Abyaaunana;

Heeren {AJrican Nation*, vol. ii. pp. 321—358)

believes them to have been a branch of the SeU'iW h

who occupied the maritime district around Capa

Guardafui: while Niebuhr {Dissertation on the G>og.

of IItrod. p. 20), objects to all these surmi»r», aa

taking for granted too much knowledge in Herodotus

himself. In the story, as it stands, there is una in­

surmountable objection to the position in the tar

south assigned to them by the historian, and tua

readily accepted by his modern commentators. No

army, much less an oriental anny with its many

incumbrances, could have marched from E;ryj<t into

Abyssinia without previously sending forward maga­

zines and securing wells. There were ncitlirr n*d«,

nor tanks of water, nor com land nor herbage to l»

found in a considerable portion of the route (¥&>***',

o. 25). Even at the present day no direct comniu-

nication exists between Aegypt and the land <4~ to*

Nubians of Somaleh. No single traveller, no caravan,

could adventure to proceed by land from the cata­

racts to Cape Guardafui. An army far inferior ia

numbers to the alleged host of Cambyses would m

a lew days exlutust the grass and the millet of Nu­

