793 ROMA. ROMA

which Atticus had m often admired. However

this may be, we see through the obscurity of

Cicero's letter tlic rough sketch of a magnificent

design of Caesar's, which had not yet been per­

fectly matured. The whole space from the back

of the Basilica Aemilia as far as the Septa Julia in

the Campus Martius was to be thrown open; and

perhaps even the excavation of the extremity of the

Qoirinal, ultimately executed by Trajan, may have

been comprised in the plan. Cicero is evidently half

ashamed of this vast outlay in favour of Caesar, and

seeka to excuse it with Atticus by leading htm to

infer that it will place his favourite monument in a

better point of view. When Cicero wrote the plan

was evidently in a crude and incipient state.

The first pretence put forth was probably a mere

extension of the Forum Kouianum; but when Caesar

a few years later attained to supreme power the new

foundation became the Forum J it limn. In his

position some caution was requisite in these af­

fairs. Thus the curia of Faustus was polled down

under pretence of erecting on its site a temple of

FelicitM—a compliment to the boasted good for­

tune of .Sulla, and his name of Felix. But instead

of it rose the Curia Julia. The discrepancy in the

sums mentioned by Cicero and Suetonius probably

arose from the circumstance that as the work pro­

ceeded it was found necessary to buy more houses.

If this buying up of private houses was not for the

Forum Julium, for what pur]>osc could it possibly

have been? The Curia Julia stood on the site of

the Curia Hostilia, the Basilica Julia on that of the

Sempronia, and we know of no other buildings de­

signed by Caesar about the forum.

With regard to the situation of tho AXBIOM Ll-

Hertatis, to which Cicero says the forum was to be

extended, we are inclined to look for it, with Becker,

on that projection of the Quirinal which was sub-

aequentlj cut away in order to make room for the

forum of Trajan. The words of Livy, u Censores

externplo in atrium Libertatia (scenderunt" (xliii.

16), seem to point to a height. A fragment of

the CapitolilM plan, bearing the inscription i,ibeic-

TATls, seems to be rightly referred by Carina to

the Basilica Ulpia. {Foro Horn. p. 185; cf. Becker,

Antirnrt, .('c. p. 29.) Now, if our conjecture re­

specting the site of the Atrium Libertatis is cor­

rect, it would have been occupied by the forum of

Trajan and it.s appurtenances; and it therefore

appears probable that the Atrium was comprehended

in the Basilica Ulpia. Nor is this a mere unfounded

guess, since it appear! from some lines of Sidonius

Apollinarifl (A/jm/. 2), that in his time the Basilica

Ulpia was the place where slaves received their manu­

mission. And that the old Atrium Libertatis was de­

voted to manumission and other business respecting

slaves appears from several passages of ancient

authors. Thus Livy: "Postremo eo deseensum est, ut

ex quatuor urbants tribubus unam palam in Atria

Libertatis sortirentur, in quam omnes, qui servitutcm

serviasent, conjicerent" (xlv. 15). And Cicero:

u Sed quaestiones urgent Milunem, quae sunt babitae

nunc in Atrio Lilwrtatis: Quibusnam de servis?" &c.

{Mil. *J2). Lastly, it may be mentioned that the

following fragment of an inscription was found near

the church of S. Martina, and therefore near litis

t.pot;

SEXATVS • rOPVLVSQVK [p.OM.VNVs]

UBKRTATL

(Camna, Foro Horn, p. 391).

The preceding letter of Cicero's points to the

Forum Julium as closely adjoining the KuT'«s At*

milia, and there are other circumstances this aaf

l>e adduced in proof of the same site. 0*~A ( Fa*

i. 258) alludes to the temple of Janus a* lyaf few

tween two fora, and these must hare ntea aaf

Forum Romanum and the Forum Caeaaro.

story (xvi. 86) of the lotns-tne on the Vahafl

the roots of which penetrated to the fri J

Caesar, whatever may be its absolute truth, aamV

all events have possessed sufficient prubaaUfeyifl

not actually incredible; and there is no uaana^l

Caesar's forum which tallies with that story I

than that here assigned to it with

site of the Vulcanal. as established in the ]

pages. Our Vulcanal need not bare

more than about 30 yards from the Ftrmn J

that of Becker lies at about five tunc* that J

from it, and would render Pliny'i accoann

Improbable.

Palladio mentions that in his time cam

remains of a temple were discovered behind t

where the statue of Marforio then tvxd.:

church of S. Martina, whicbt from the I

adorned with sculptures of dolphins and Ual

took to be one dedicated to Neptune,

have no accounts of a temple of Septa

neighbourhood, and as these emblem* I

suit tlte sea-born goddess, it seems prbaSie;

remains belonged to the temple of V«

Tliis is still more strikingly confirmed by 1

account of its style of architecture,

pyenostyle, as we know that of Venus to I

(Archil, lib. iv. 31; comp. Vitruv. iii. |'

We can hardly doubt, therefore, that tat f

Caesar lay on this spot, as is indicated ef t*

various circumstances. The only objerfiaal

been urged against it is the followine

Senius, which places the A - -ii.irrra. t

which undoubtedly adjoined the Forum

quite a different ]>art of the town: *

belli portae—Sacrarium lwc Noma Pa

circa imum Argiletum juxta

quod fuit in duobus brevi&simts itxpos.

autem propter Janum bifrocitem. Tm

Faliscis, civitate Tusciae, inveotum «

Jani cum frontibus qiutuor. UnoV

stituerat transiatum est ad forum Tr

quatuor portarum unum temjdum est

{ad Virg. Am. vii. 607). Thai the

adjoined the fomm of Caesar is evident J

following epigram of Martial'* (L 117

"Qnnd quaeris propius petas licrbxt

Argi nempe soles subire letum:

Contra Caesaris est forum 1

Script is postibus hinc et inde to

Omnes ut cito perieyas poeraa.

Itlinc me pete, ne mges AtreeteBB^i

Hoc nomen dominus gent 1

Hence, if Servius is right, the forum of i

not have been where we have placed it, I

S. side of the Capitoline hill; and thia <

found some defenders (Mormnscn,

fiistit. vol. xvi. p. 311, set}.) We I

the situation of the small temple at •

belli pacisque, has been clearlv t

we have said in the former part

Servius is evidently confounding th

with the larger one near the LliesUr* at j

and indeed the whole passage is a b

For bow can we connect such remote

