MAKITIMA INSULA. 277 MARMARICA.

there las been found at Citit or Samt-Blaite, on the

borders of the same lake, an inscription which

mentions "Curator Maritimae, Sextumvir Augustalis

Avaticornm," and he would fix the Maritima Avati-

corum of Pliny at this place. But he thinks that

the Maritima Colonia of Ptolemy is a different

place from the Maritima Avaticorum of Pliny; and

he says that the measures of Ptolemy for Maritima

Colonia fix the Anatili, whose capital this town was,

between the mouths of the Rhone. Pliny also speaks

cf the Anatili (iii. 4), and Walckenaer says that he

places them where Ptolemy does, or rather where he

My* that Ptolemy places them. But this is not so.

Pliny places them east of the eastern branch of the

Rhone, if his text can be understood. Nor is it true

that Ptolemy places the Anatili or Avatici, what­

ever may be the true name in his text, between the

mouths of the Rhone; for Ptolemy places them east

of the eastern branch of the Rhone, where Pliny

places the Avatici. Walckenaer can find no place for

Ptolemy's Maritima Colonia, except by hazarding a

poem that it may have been Heraclea [Heraclka]

at the mouth of the Rhone; but Ptolemy places the

ilaritima Colonia half a degree east of the eastern

mouth of the Rhone. Walekenaer's examination of

this question is very badly done. The site of

Maritima at Samt-Blaite seems probable, for it is

certain that a Roman town was there. Many re­

mains, Roman bricks, and coins have been found at

Samt-Blaite; and " there are wharves on which there

are still iron rings to fasten ships by " (Ukert, Gal-

Hen, p. 421). Ukert's authority seems to be the

Statistupte du Depart, det BoucJtet-du-Rhone; but

oce ian hardly suppose that any man can believe

that iron rings exposed to the weather could last

■a long. [G. I., j

MAKITIMA INSULA. [Aeoates.]

MAKITIMAE STATIO'NES ("Tcpa\oi 8>uoi,

Ptui. iv. 4. § 3), a place on the coast-line of the

Great Syrtis, a little to the N. of Automala

(Braiga). The psition of Tabilba. where there

are ruins, and inscriptions in the running hand of the

Greeks of the Roman Empire, corresponds exactly

with these naval stations. (Beechey, Expedition to

tkt X. Coast of Africa, pp. 230—237.) [E.B.J.]

MA'RIUM. [Arsi.nob, p. 225, b.]

M.VKIUS (Ma^ioi), a town of Laconia, belonging

in the time of Pausanias to the Eleuthero-Lacones,

•as situated 100 stadia east of Geronthrae. It

eoouined a sanctuary of all the gods and one of

Artemis, and in each there were copions springs of

«ster. It is represented by Mari, which stands on

the road from Gherdki (Geronthrae) over the moun­

tains to Krematti; but, according to the French

C-xntnissioo, its real distance from Geronthrae is from

7 > to 80 stadia, and not 100, as is stated by Pau-

uaiaj. There are ruins of the ancient town about

a mile and a half to the south of the modern village,

nil the place is still characterised by its abundant

fflLtiita, (Pans. iii. 21. §7,22. §8; Boblaye,

Aedin-cAea, <fc. p. 96; Leake, Pelopomtetiaca,

f- 3*2; Curtius, Peloponneiot, vol. ii. p. 303.)

MAltMAHlCA (v Mao/iociKif), the sandy and

tarren district, which extends along the S. coast of

the Mediterranean, from the valley of the Nile to

U<e Cyrenaica, and is now called the Dttert of

for&ah, and divided by no certain line of demarca-

ti'in between the Pasha of Aegypt and the ruler

•f Tripoli. The Marmakidak (o! MapfiaplSai),

a Libyan tribe, gave their name, which Niebuhr

(iact on Anc. Ethnog. and Geog. vol. ii. p. 336)

derives from the word "Mar" = salt, with a re­

duplication common to these languages, to the

region they occupied. They appear as the principal

indigenous tribe to the W. of Aegypt, between the

age of Philip of Macedon, and the third century of

the Christian aera (Scylax, c. 107, ed. Klausen;

Strab. ii. p. 131, xvii. pp. 798, 825, 838 ; Plin.

v. 5; Joseph. B. J. ii. 16. § 4; Vopisc. Vit. Prob.

c. 9), but are not mentioned by Herodotus; it is

probable that they were pushed into the interior of

the country, by the Greek colonists of Cyrene, and

afterwards recovered their ancient seats. In the

reign of Magas of Cyrene, the Marmaridae revolted,

and compelled that prince to give up his intention of

attacking Ptolemy Philadelphia, and the Aegyptian

frontier. (Paus. i. 7. §§ 1, 2.) The ancients dif­

fered considerably in the limits they assigned to the

Marmaridae: Scylax (I. c.) places them between

Apis, and the Gardens of the Hetperides; Pliny

(J. c.) between Paraetoninm, and the Greater Syrtis;

while Strabo (xvii. p. 838) extends their frontier to

the S. as far as the Oasis of Ammonium (Sivah).

Ptolemy (iv. 5. §§ I—10) bounds the district

Marmarica, on the E. by the Plinthinetic gulf, and

on the W. by a line which is drawn through the

town of Damis (Dermi); he divides this region —

according to the arrangement made by the Ptolemies

when Cyrenaica became a dependency of Aegypt—

into two parts, the E. of which was called Libycus

Nomos (AiSinjr vinos, § 4) and the W. Mai:-

maricus Nomos (Mapuapiicijs vofnos; § 2); the

line of separation was made by the Catabathmus

Magnus (KarrdSatftos ^i-yai, Polyb. xxxi. 26:

Strab. pp. 791, 798, 825, 838; Stadiatm. p. 440;

Sail. Jug. 19; Mela. i. 8. § 2; Plin. v. ft; Oroa.

i. 2; Steph. B.) This elevation, which rises to

the height of 900 feet, according to some authors

separated Aegypt from Cyrenaica, and extends from

the coast in a SSE. direction towards the Oasis of

of Ammonium. Edrisi (vol. i. p. 125, ed. Jaubert.)

calls it 'Ahdbah el Svllom, or staircase descent,

whence the port Solom and Soloume of most of the

earlier " Portulani ;" the modern name is 'Abiltah

el Kibir. Further to the E., near Paraetonium,

was the smaller inclination Catabatiimi s Minor

(Strab. p. 838; Solin. 30), now called 'Akdbuh el

Sgir, the height of which is 500 feet. Shooting out

into the sea, in the headland Jias el Kanait, it takes

a direction from N. to S. to the Oasis of Ghara. In

the sea-board of this arid space, following the coast

from E. to W., were the promontories of Dkris (el

Ileyf); Hermaeum (RatelKaanis); the harbour of

Gyzis or Zygis (Mahadah); Paraetonilm (Has

el I/arzeit); Apis (fioun Ajoubuh) ; the little rocks

called ScoPL'LI Tyndarei (el Chairy); Plyni

Ps. (Rat J/alem); Panormus (ilartah Salonm);

Aiidams Prom. (AW el Mellah), with the adjoin­

ing harbour Menelai Ps.; Antipyrgos (Tobi-uk);

Petkas Parvus (Magharat el lleabit), with its

harbour Batrachus; Aedonia Pa. (Am el Gha-

zdh), with the islands Aedonia and Platra

(Bomba), and Chersonesus (Rat et Tin.) Along

the whole of this coast a road ran, the stations on

which are given in the Peutinger Table. (Segm.

viii.) One river, the Paliurus (naAioopoi,

PtoL iv. 5. § 2: el Zemminih), watering the district

of Aziitis, discharges itself into the sea at the Gulf

of Bomba. The interior, which was occupied by

the tribes of the Adyrmachidak and iln.i-

uahmae, is described nnder Oasis. Taposiris,

Apis, and Paraetoniuh were the chief towns, of

T 3

