ROMA. 773 ROMA.

rw uotbfT pi red stmt, enclosing the area of the

nm, which tu distinguishable by its being paved

irJi (libs of* the ordinary silex. This street con-

rwi fMiwxrd*, put the rain of the three co­

nn or temple of Castor, as was shown by a

i ir piece of street pavement having been dis-

nnd 10 front of them From this spot it must

in proceeded eastwards, past the church of Sta.

'aru L&eratrvx, till it met that portion of the

Sacra Via which ran in a southerly direction op*

posite the temple of Faustina (S. Loernzo in

Miranda), and formed the eastern boundary of

the forum. Hence, according to the opinion now

generally received, the forum presented an oblong or

rather trapezoidal figure, 671 English feet in length,

by 202 at its greatest breadth under the Capitol,

and 117 at its eastern extremity. (Bunsen, Lts

Forum de Jiome, p. 15.)

f 9 9 fJ tJP

Hi]

l m -t i ,i i

■ ■■■

If If

L 'II^J1

m ' rl > ^

11

a.

T1IE FORUM IX ITS PRESENT STATE.

rSa,—The Sacra Via was thus intimately

vita the forum; said as it waa both one of

Kbent and ooe of the most important

MaVine, it will demand a particular description.

Ik* is lost in obscurity. According to some ac-

• fctta* bare been already in existence when

Mb boson Alluded to was fought, since it is

fcfcwt derived its name of the *' Sacred Way"

tmtv concluded upon it between Romulus

I**- (Dionya, ii. 46; Festus, p. 290, Mull.)

•Wsew, wwmi highly improbable; not only

■ tbt road could hardly have existed at so

*fmod, when the site of the forum itself was  
a state, bat also because a public high-

• ** *Jfc*rther the place in which we should

I s tmty of peace to be concluded. The name

• natutrcm lias alao been derived, perh:i[«

*0*ntr probability, from the same event.  
■** leery that the road took ita origin at a

'faer period, when the Sabine and Roman

kad bscoine mnsolalated. IU name of Sacra

■■■ ■ have been derived from the sacred

» ** which it waa used. Thus we learn

from Varro (L. L. § 47, Mull.) that it began at the

sacellum of the goddess Strenia, in the Carinae;

that it proceeded thence as far as the arx, or citadel

on the Capitoline hill; and tliat certain sacred offer­

ings, namely, the white sheep or lamb (uvis idulis),

which was sacrificed every ides to Jove (Ovid, F.

i. 56; Macrob. S. i. 15; Paul. Diac. p. 104, Mull.),

were borne along it monthly to the arx. It waa

also the road by which the augurs descended from

the arx when, after taking the auguries, they pro­

ceeded to inaugurate anything iu the city below. It

likewise appears that Titus Tntius instituted the

custom that on every new year's day the augurs

should bring him presents of verbenae from the

grove of Strenia, or Streuua, to hit* dwelling on the

arx ("ab exortu poene urbis Msrtiae Streniarum

usus adolevit, auctoritate regis Tatii, qui verbenaa

felicis arboris ex luco Strenuae anni novi auspicia

primus accepit," Symm. Epist. x. 35). This cus­

tom seems to have been retained in later times in

that known as the augurium salntis. (Cic. Ltg. ii.

8; Tac. Ann. xii. 23; Lucian, Fstudol. 8.) Hence

perhaps the appellation of 'sacra;" though the

Si) 3

