KOMA. 751

iS Vcncaa, as Urlicbs assumes (Btschr. vol.

i p. 17), mk» in that can the portico must hare

■ n—t the road leading ont of the Porta Ratumena.

A liab beyond the last named gate the wall must

an joined the Capitoline hill, along which, as we

Mid, there was no other fortification but the

fri^ium nature of the ground, rendered here and

srre aS more abrupt bj escarpment. At the S\V.

lrrrirarr of the hill the wall most have been re-

. i«t, and most undoubtedly have ran in a direct

cramn the abort space between the Capitoline hill

-a the Tiber. Between this spot and the Arentine  
:» wall was discontinued; and this is the part

'»i «» by IHonyaiuj (i. c.) as sufficiently defended

> tin am. The piece of wall just mentioned

have that oat the Forum 01 i tori urn and Circus

.uiduoa, since Aaonriua (ad Cic. Tog. Cand. p. 90,

red.) ejections a temple of Apollo, which was

•■■•sled between those places, as being outside the

XIX I .iiKuniK This gate lay just at the foot

'Ji Capitol, and is one of the most certain entrances

<ar Servian city. It was named after a fane or

lar of Canornia. the motlier of Evander, which

**i tame h_ This altar is mentioned by Dionysios

32 i, and appears to have existed long after his

x. >.we it was seen by A. Gellius (xviii. 7) and

Vraii (ad Virg. Am. viii. 337.) The street

*d Cm Jugarius ran from the Porta Carmentalis  
ra* the base of the Capitoline to the Forum, as

ban frecnLivy sdescription(xxvii.37)of the pro-

raaa af the virgins to the temple of Juno Regina

Mm Aventine, when two white heifers were led

n tii« temple of Apollo before mentioned through

i Pwta Carmentalis and Vicus Jngarius to the

m. The exact site of the gate was probably a

t to the KW. of the church of S. Omotxmo.

r.-» pracipaJ gales of Rome had commonly more

-a or thoroaghfare These arcliways, or passages,

> aJied Furnicea and Jani. Cicero's etymology

ta* aUter word ebows the meaning attached

oneujfa the etymology itself is absurd (" Ab

somen est ductum: ex quo transitiones

raw Jani, foreaqoe in bminibus profanamm

an jmmmae numinantur," Xat. JJeor. ii. 27).

hat* already said that the right Janus of

f«ta Certoentahs, on going out of the town,

frardnJ as ill-omened, and branded with the

a> sf Porta SccJcrala, from its having been that

sarb wn-t li the Fabti passed on their fatal expe-

■ t> tka Cnrmera. (Lav. ii. 49.) So Ovid {Fust

r—»-ntis) prsrtae dextro via proxima Jano est:

• yer banc noli, quisquis es, omen babel,"

■a (p. 284,31011). Servius (.(.«.viii.,337),and

■at ^i. 5) hare completely misunderstood these

ajare a a|»plying *"* *pitbet sceleralu to the

P p*. ns we bare before remarked.

l>. .burt piece of wall between the Capitoline

aaj that Tiber there mast have been at least

>er g-— besides the Carmentalis, namely the

la Fix-auucTASA. It is mentioned by Cicero

u ri- 3). and ita situation near the river may

ptmrj not only from its name, but also from

—* in Livr, w hich mention it in connection with

y.. _ (axvrr. 9, 21). Plutarch also (Utho, 4)

IJB M ^ftmt jsursoation which had caused much

(•? in that corn-market, at that time held in the

— • afr"""* Frumentaria, near the Forum

(AeC Reff. ix,); bat the words of Paulus

'- who says that a rurt

of the Tiber once actually Bowed through this gale

(" Flumentana Porta Komae appellata, quod Tiber is

partem ea fluxisae affirmant," p. 89, Mull.) The site

is further confirmed by a passage in Varro alluding

to the populousness of the suburb just outside the

gate: " Nam quod extra urbem est aedificium, nihilo

magis ideo est villa, quum eorum aedificia qui

habitant extra portam Flumentanam, aut in Aemi-

lianis" (R. R. iii. 2). This neighbourhood had

early become very thickly inhabited, as is evident

from the many porticoes, theatres, temples and other

buildings, which are mentioned there (see Preller,

Regiontn, p. 156, seq.) But Livy's narrative of the

trial of Manlius (vi. 20) is one of the most striking

proofs of the situation of the P. Flumentana, though

it is a stumbling-block to those who hold that tho

temple of Jupiter was on the SW. summit of tho

Capitoline hill. A spot near the place where the

Circus Flaminius afterwards stood was at that time

used for the assemblies of the Comitia Centuriata, by

which Manlius was tried. From this place both the

Capitol and the Arx were visible; and Manlius hud

produced a great effect upon his judges by calling

upon them to pronounce their verdict in the sight

of those very gods whose temple he had preserved:

"Ut Capitolium atque arcem intuentes, ut nd dcos

immortales versi, de se judicarent." In order to

deprive him of this appeal the tribunes adjourned

the assembly to a spot just outside the Porta Flu­

mentana, called "lucus Poetelinus," whence the

Capitol could not be seen (" unde conspectus in Ca­

pitolium non esset"). A glance at any map of Romo

will Bhow that this was the only spot in the Campus

Martins where the temple, from its lieing hidden by

the SW. summit, which we assume to have been tha

Arx, was concealed from view. The tribunes would

doubtless have been glad to conceal the Arx also,

had it been in their power; but an appeal to tho

Arx alone would have lacked the effect of the rt-

Ugw which swayed so much with tho superstitious

Romans. They were no longer in the presence of

those rescued deities in whose sight Manlius had

invoked their judgment. There is no occasion

therefore to try, with Becker, to alter Livy's text,

by reading Frumentaria for Flnmentana, or seek to

place the scene of the trial at another spot, since

the Comitia Centuriata were usually assembled in

the Campus.

The ancient topographers, as well as the modem

Italians (Nibby, Mura, <fc. p. 132 ; Canina, Indi'

cmionc Topognifica, pp. 34, 632, ed. 1850), place

another gate, the Porta TmuuriiALls. between

the Carmentalis and the Flumentana. That there

was such a gate is certain, since it is frequently

mentioned in classical authors, but unfortunately io.

Buch a manner that no decided inference can be

drawn respecting its situation. Hence various

theories have been advanced on the subject, which

have led to warm controversies. The German school

of topographers, tliough not united among them­

selves, have agreed in departing from the Italian

view, chiefly because it apjjrars to them absurd to

imagine that there could have been three gales in

so short a piece of wall. If, however, as it M ill be

shown to be probable, the Porta Triumphalis was

opened only ou occasions of state, there really seems

to bo very little force in this objection. Bunsen

and his followers allow that it formed a real entrance

into the city, but strangely enough make it lead

into the Circus Maximus; whilst Becker, on tho

other hand, holds that it was no gate at all properly

