VIA LAURENTINA.

VIA PRAENESTINA. 1303

from Some, but it U not clear whether he measured

the distance by the Vis Latin* or the Labicana (v.

p. 237). The actual distance of Ferentinum (con­

cerning which there is no doubt) from Rome U 49

mile*; and the Compitum Anagninum is correctly

placed 8 miles nearer the city, which would exactly

agree with the point on the present highroad where

tbe branch to Anagnia still turns off. Both the

Itinerary and the Tabula place Ad Pictas 15 miles

from the Compitum Anagninnm, and this distance

woeJd fix it 10 miles from Roboraria,or 26 from Rome,

thus agreeing closely with the statement of Strabo.

We may, therefore, feel sure that the position above

assigned to Ad Pictas, a point of importance, as that

where the two roads joined, is at least approximately

correct.

The next stations admit of no doubt, and the dis­

tances are correct. It was at tbe Compitum Anag­

ninum, 15 miles beyond Ad Pictas, that the Via

Praenestina joined the Latins, which was carried

thence down the valley of the Sacco, nearly in

the line of the present highroad, by Ferentinum and

Fruaino, both of which still retain their ancient

names, to Fregellanuin (Ctprano) on the Litis,

whence it turned S. to Fabrateria Nova (the

rains of which are still visible at 5. Giovanni in

Carieo), on the right bank of the Liris. Here it

crossed that river by a bridge, of which the ruins

are still extant, whence the course of the ancient

road may be traced without difficulty through Aqui-

num, Casinum, Teanum, and Cales to Casilinum

on the Vulturnus, where it fell into the Via Appia.

Portions of the ancient pavement, sepulchres, and

other ruins mark the line of the ancient way through-

oat the latter part of its course. At a station

given in the Tabula under the name of Ad Flexum

(9 miles from Casinum) a branch road turned off

to Venafrum, whence it ascended the valley of

tbe Vulturous to Aesemis, and thence into the

heart of Samninm. The Antonine Itinerary repre­

sents the Via Latina as following this cross-road,

and making a bend round by Venafrum, but there

can be no doabt that tbe regular highroad proceeded

direct to Teanum. Tbe remains of the ancient road

may be distinctly traced, proceeding from Teanum

nearly due N. through Cajantllo and Tora to &

1'ietro in Fine, which was probably the site of the

station Ad Flexum. This would be 18 miles from

Tesuunn. The Tabula gives the distance as viiL,

for which there is no doubt we should read xviii.

Tbe branch of the Via Latina, already alluded to,

which was carried to Beneventuin, quitted tbe main

rrssd at Teanum, crossed the Vulturnus to Allifae,

and thence was carried up the valley of the Calor

by Telesia to Beneventum. The distances are thus

riven in the Antonine Itinerary (p. 304):—

Teanum to Allifae (Ali/e) - - xvii. M P.

Telesia (7>fcw) - - xxv.

Beneventum - - xvii.

(Tbe first part of the Via Latina from Rome to

the valley of the Liris is examined and discussed in

iletail by Westphsl, Horn. Kamp. pp. "8—97; and

Nibby, Vie degli Aniichi, pp. 110—119.) I E.H.B.]

VIA LAURENTINA [Laukkntum.J

VIA NOMEXTANA [Nomentum.]

VIA OSTIENSIS, was, as its name imports, tbe

■oad leading from Rome to Ostia, which must na-

arally have been an extremely frequented route when

he citj was at the height of its prosperity. It fol-

•need in its general direction the left hank of the

[ iber, bat cutting off the more considerable bends

and windings of the river. It issued from the Porta

Ostiensis, now called the Porta S. Paolo, from the

celebrated basilica of St. Paul, about I .J mile out­

side the gate, and situated on the line of the ancient

road. Three miles from Rome it passed through a

village, or suburb, known as the Vicus Alexandri

(Ammian. xvii. 4. § 14): it was at this point that

the Via Laureatina struck off direct to Laurentum,

16 miles distant from Rome [ Laurentum]; while

the Via Ostiensis, turning a little to the right, pur­

sued thenceforth nearly a straight course all the way

to Ostia. On this line, 11 miles from Rome, is the

Osteria di Mala f'ede, where a mad branches off to

Pordgliano, which undoubtedly follows the same

line as that mentioned by the younger Pliny, by

which bis Lauren tine villa could be approached as

conveniently as by tbe Via Lanrentina. (Plin. Hp.

ii. 17.) Five miles farther the highroad reached

Ostia, which was 16 miles from Rome. (/tin. Ant.

p. 301.) [Ostia]. [E. H. B.]

VIA POP1LIA. [Vu Appia, No, 5.]

VIA PORTUENSIS, was the road that led from

Rome to the Portus Trajani, or the new port of the

city constructed under the Empire on the right bank

of the Tiber. [Ostia.] Tbe name could not, of course,

have come into use until after tbe construction of this

great artificial port to replace the natural harbour of

Ostia, and is only found in the enumeration of the

Viae in the Curinsutn Urbis and Notilia (pp. 28,29,

ed. Preller). But tbe line of tbe road itself may

still be traced without difficulty. It issued from the

Porta Portnensts, in tbe walls of Aurelian, and fol­

lowed, with little deviation, the right bank of the

Tiber, only cntting off the minor windings of that

river. The Antonine Itinerary places tbe city of Portus

19 miles from Rome (p. 300); but this is certainly a

mistake, the real distance being just about the same

as that of Ostia, or 16 miles. (Nibby, Dintomi, vol.

iii. p. 624.) From Portus a road was carried along the

coast by Kregenae (9 miles) to Alsium (9 miles),

where it joined the Via Auheua. (/fin. Ant.

p. 300.) [K. H. B.]

VIA POSTUMIA, was, as we leam from an in­

scription (Orell. /riser. 3121), the proper name of

the road that crossed the Apennines direct from Der-

tona to Genua, But it appears to have fallen into

disuse; at least we do not find it mentioned by any

ancient writer, and the road itself is included by the

Itineraries under the general name of the Via Au.

re] is. It has therefore been considered more conve­

nient to describe it in thst article. [K. M. B.]

VIA PRAENESTINA (i rUxuwoTirn. Mis,

Strab.), was tbe name of one of the highroads that

issued from tbe Porta Esqoilina at Rome, and led (as

its name implies) direct to Praeneste. The period

of its construction is unknown; but it is evident that

there must have been from a very early period a

highway, or line of communication from Rome to

Praeneste, long before there was a regular paved

road, such as the Via Praenestina ultimately became.

Tbe first part of it indeed, as far as the city of Gabii,

13 miles from Rome, was originally known as tbe Via

Gamma, a name which is used by Livy in the history

of the early ages of the Republic (Liv. ii. 11), but

would seem to have afterwards fallen into disuse,

so that both Strabo and the Itineraries give the

name of Via Praenestina to the whole line. (Strab.

v. p. 238; /fin. Ant. p. 302.) In tbe latter period

of the Republic, indeed, Gabii had fallen very

much into decay, while Praeneste was still an

important and flourishing town, which will suf­

4 o 4

