1202 VIA APPIA. VIA APPIA.

is evidently the station Ad Medias of the Jerusalem

Itinerary. A short distance from Terracina the

Via Appin at length deviated from the direction it

had bo long pursued, and turning to tin: left as­

cended the steep hill on which the ancient city stood

[Tarracina], while the modern road is carried

round the foot of this hill, close to the sea. The

distance of Tarracina from Rome is correctly given

at 61 miles in the Antonine Itinerary.

From Terracina the line of the ancient road may

still be traced distinctly all the way to Fotidi, and

is flanked by ruins of villas, dilapidated tombs, &c,

through a preat part of its course. It first as­

cended the lull above tlie city as far as the convent

of San Francesco, and afterwards descended into

the valley beneath, joining the modern highroad

from Home to Naples about 3 miles from Terracina,

just before crossing the frontier of the Papal States.

The narrow pass at the foot of the mountains, which

the road here follows, between the rocks and the

marshy lake of Fondi, is the celebrated defile of

Lautulae, or Ad Lautulas, which more than once

bears a conspicuous part in Roman history. [Lau­

tulae.] The distance from Tarracina to Fundi

is overstated in the Antonine Itinerary: the true

distance docs not exceed 13 miles, as correctly given

in the Jerusalem Itinerary. From Fundi to For-

miae (Mola d% Gaeta), a distance of 13 miles, the

road passed through a rugged and mountainous

country, crossing a complete mountain pass: the

substructions of the ancient way are in many places

f-tiil visible, as well as portions of the pavement,

and numerous ruins of buildings, for the most

part of little interest. The bridges also are in se­

veral instances the ancient ones, or at least rest upon

ancient substructions. The ruins of Formiaeaod of

the numerous villas with which it was adorned line

the shores at Mola di Gacta, and bound the road

for a space of more than 2 miles: other ruins, prin­

cipally sepulchral, are scattered along its line al­

most all the way thence to Minitknae. The

ruins of this latter city stand on the right bank of

the Liris (Garigliano), a short distance from its

month, and about a mile and a half below the village

of Traghetto. The line of the ancient road from

Mola thither is clearly traced and susceptible of no

doubt: the distance is correctly given as 9 miles.

Here the Via Appi'a crossed the Liris, and was con-

tinned nearly in a straight line through a level and

marshy district along the sea-coast to Sinuessa, the

ruins of which are found near the village of Man-

tlraffone. The distance of 9 miles between the two

(s;iven in both Itineraries) is somewhat less than the

truth. It was at Sinuessa that the Appian Way

finally quitted the coa.it of the Tyrrhenian sea

(Strab. v. p. 233), and struck inland towards Ca­

pua, passing by the stations of Pons Campanus and

Ad Octavum. But this part of its course has not

been very distinctly traced, and there is some diffi­

culty as to the distances given. The three sub­

divisions of the Jerusalem Itinerary would give 26

miles for the total distance from Sinuessa to Capua;

and the coincidence of this sum with the statement

of the Antonine Itinerary, as given by Wes^eling, is

a strong argument in favour of the reading xxvi

il. P. instead of xvi. adopted by Pinder. The latter

number is certainly too small, for the direct distance

between the two points is not less than 21 miles,

and the mad must have deviated from the straight

ine on account of the occurrence of the marshes of

he Savo, as well as of the river Vulturnus. It is

probable, therefore, that it made a ctsy^niig

bend, and that the distance was thus pMSEei:

but the question cannot be settled nntil this ?ar. <i

the road lias been more accuraK-ly traced this m

hitherto been done. The distances pvt» is u»

Tabula are too inaccurate to be of a£y us*: &s r.

appears probable from that document tint the

Campanus was a bridge over the littie river Hn.

and not, as might have been suspected, over the

turnus, which the Appian Way dhl not era* *_j

it arrived at Casilinum, 3 miles from Cncs. I:

was here that it united with the Va Lt-a.

(Strab. v. p. 237; Tab. Peut.)

The total distance from Rome to Capua (if ti

adopt 26 miles as that from Sinuessa) vastier**

131 miles. This portion of the Via Ajfi* as tar*

Minturnae has been traced with mock ears ;t

Westphal (Rvmisckc Kamfnu^ne, pp. 22—70i. *

well as by Chaupy (Maison dUoract. vol. m s.

365—461) and Sir R. Hoare (Ctazntvi 7w

vol. i. pp. 81 — 14S); but all these acct<u:r» iff >-

rlcient in regard to the portion between llxtrz«

and Capua.

Several minor branches or cross lise* parted £*e

the Via Appia during this first portion ot A rrjr*.

Of these it may suffice to mention: 1. Tt»\u

Akoeatina, which quitted the Via Appia a: » *£Tt

distance beyond the Almo, jnat after

Osteria dell Acquataccio: it proceeded ia awry

straight line to Ardea, 23 miles from Kan*. [Ai*

dea.] 2. The Via Antiatixa, which braaciai

off from the Appian Way just before mrzz

Bovillae, and proceeded direct to Antium, 3? c^s

from Koine. It probably followed nearly tb« az*

line as the modern road, but its precise <

not been traced. 3. The Via Sinus a qu.n*ii tlx

Appian Way, shortly after passing Trerntirraai.

proceeded in a direct line to Setia (Sazx):

derable portions of the ancient pavement **iJ ^

main. 4. A branch road, the name of wfcieb a o-

known, diverged from the Via Appia at Ustmn.

and proceeded to Teanum (18 miles disCAi:' t

the Via Latina, whence it was continued tartars

Allifae and Telesta to Beneventum. [Via L-ittsj-

5. The Via Domitiana. constructed by ti* ca­

pe ror of that name, of which Statius has left ■ »

pompous description. (Si'/r. it. 3.) It was i »

tinuatiou of the coast-road frum Sinuessa, base

carried across the Vulturnus close to its nmia M »

bridge which must really hare been a work «s

difficulty; thence it followed closely tie k* i

coast as far as Cumae, whence it struck

to Puteoli. The road communicating bri*ecr

city and Xeapolis was previously in ei;>teo«- TV

distances on this ruid, as given in tne A&^t

Itinerary (p. 122). are;—

From Sinuessa to Liternum xxit. m. r. (tiis sxal

be a mistake for nv.)

thence to Cumae - ri.

Puteoli - in.

Neapolis - r.

There was also a direct road from Capaa t* N**?"-

lis (Tab. Pad.), passing through AtcUa, n

midway between the two cities.

2. Prom Capua to Beneventum.

This portion of the road may be very br^y im­

posed of. From Capua it was c*ctieu«< »: ^''

the plain as far as Calatia, the site of wiuti

at Le Galazzc, near Maddaiom * it then ertrwi &

Apennines, and, passing through ih» ni'ff ^

Aricnzo, commonly supposed to be the ax&vp*

