LIMYRA. LINDUS 193

would contain 20,000 spectators, from Which estimate

we most conclude that the dimensions and outline of

the building can be accurately determined. M. Du-

four says: "On the level of the present soil, there

are some vestiges of the corridors or covered por­

ticoes, which led, by means of the vomitoria, into the

different galleries: the part which is least damaged

at present is in the stables of the Hotel d'Evreux. A

principal arch, which led into the arena, is still

nearly entire, though the interior facings have been

ilmost completely, removed." [G. L.]

Ll'MYRA (Aiuvpa or Atfiipa), a town in the

southern part of Lycia, on the river Limyrus, twenty

stadia above its mouth. (Strab. xiv. p. 656; comp.

ScyL p 39; Ptol. v. 3. § 6; Steph. B. s. v.) Vel-

1'ius Paterculus (ii. 102) states that Caius Caesar,

the adopted son of Augustus, died at Limyra. It is

often mentioned by Roman writers, as Ovid (Met.

ix. 546), Mela (i. 15), and continued to exist down

to i late period. (Basil. M. Kpat. 218; Hierocl.

p. 683.) Ruins of Limyra were first discovered by

Captain Beaufort above Cape Fineka; but it was

rewired for Sir Charles Fellows to explore and de­

scribe them more minutely. In his first work

(Journal of an Excursion in Asia Minor, p. 214)

he only says: "two miles across the little valley, at

the foot of the mountains, and up their sides, lay

the rains of the ancient Limyra, its theatre, temples,

sod walls." But in his later work (Account of

Ditmreries in Lycia, p. 205, foil.), he fully enters

into a description of the remains of the place, illus­

trated by fine engravings and copies of some of the

may inscriptions, both Greek and Lycian, in which

Ibr place abounds. In describing the approach to

the town, he says, that first he found a fine stately

fsrcnpbagus, with a bilingual inscription. "Hundreds

of tombs cnt in the rocks, and quite excavating the

l*flg ribs of its protruding strata, as they curved

down the aides of the mountain, soon came in view.

.. -The inscriptions were almost all Lycian,— some few

Grwk, but these were always inferior in execution,

wme bein£ merely scratched upon the surface; while

ute Lycian were cut deeply in the stone, and many

richly coloured, — the letters being alternately red

tad bine, or in others green, yellow, or red." Some

•i these tombs contain beautiful bas-reliefs, repre­

senting stories from Greek mythology. Beyond

these tombs lies the city, "marked by many foun-

listions, and by a loot; wall with towers. Further

r* is a very pretty theatre, ... the size of which

Speaks a small population." The whole neigh*

1-whood, however, is filled with tombs cut in the

rocks. (Comp, Leake, Asia Minor, p. 186.) [L. S.]

LIMYTUCA. [IsniA, p. 47, a.]

LIMYRUS (o Alfivpos"), a river on the south

feast of Lycia, which, after receiving the waters of

its tribntary Arycandus (/Vixifco), becomes navigable

t 'be point where Limyra is situated. It falls into

'be sea. at a distance of 90 stadia west of tho holy

promontory, and 60 stadia from Melanippe. (Scyl.

r »; Strab. xiv. p. 666; Ptol. v. 3. § 3.) Pliny

I'. 28) and Mela (L 15) call the river Li-

"irra, and the Stadiasmus Maris Magni (§ 211)

Aforrru, which is no doubt a mistake. Leake

(I'm Jfmor, p. 187) states that both the Limyrus

**! the Arycandus reach the sea at no great distance  
mm each other; while in the map of Lycia by Sprat t

'k* Limyrus is the smaller river, and a tributary to

lbs Arjcandna. Both these statements are opposed

'-■> 'Jie testimony of Pliny, whose words are: "Limyra

"on unoe in quern Arycandus influit." [L. S.]

VOL. II.

LINDUM (Ah/Joy). 1. A town in Britain; the

modem Lincoln. Ptolemy (ii. 3. § 20) assigns

Lindum and Rage, or Ratae, to the district of the

Coritani. In the list of the anonymous Geographer

of Ravenna it appears as Lindnm Colonia; in the

Itinerary of Antoninus, simply as Lindnm. Among

the prelates who attended the Synod of Aries, A. D.

314, was "Adelfius de civitate colonia Londinen-

sium," which we must read Lindinensium, for at the

same council London was represented by Restitutus;

and that Lincoln was a colony may be accepted from

the authority cited above, and also from the form in

which the word occurs in Beda (Hist. Eccles. ii.

16, "Civitas Lindocolina.") Lindum occurs in

Antoninus in the iter from Londinium to the great

Wall; in that from Ebnracum to Londininm; and

in another from Londinium, in which it is the

terminus.

The Roman remains extant at Lincoln are among

the most important and interesting in this country.

It is perhaps the only town in Kngland which pre­

serves one of the original Roman gateways in use at

the present day. This is the Newport Gate, which

is wholly of Roman masonry, as is also the narrow

side entrance for foot passengers. Originally there

were two of the latter, but one is walled up in a

modern building. Another of the Roman gateways

was discovered, a few years since, near the castle.

There is also £ long extent of the Roman sewer

remaining at Lincoln, and a considerable number of

inscriptions, chiefly sepulchral. The Mint Wall, as

it is called, is a side wall of a Roman edifice, ap­

parently of a public description. From the course

of the remains of the external walls, the Romans

seem to have found it necessary to extend the cir-

cumvallation of Lindum.

2. A town of the Daninii, in the northern part of

Britain, placed by Ptolemy (ii. 3. § 9) a little to the

north of the Clyde. Hursley suggests Kirkintilloch,

on the Wall of Antoninus Pius, as the site of this

Linxlmn. [C. R. S.]

LINDUS (AiVSos : Eth. Alyitos: Lindos), one of

the most important and most ancient towns in the

island of Rhodes, was situated on the eastern coast,

«, little to the north of a promontory bearing the

same name. The district was in ancient times very

productive in wine and tigs, though otherwise it

was, and is still, very barren. (Philostr. Icon.

ii. 24.) In the Homeric Catalogue (//. ii. 656)

Lindus, together with the two other Rhodian cities,

Ialysus and Camirus, are said to have taken part in

the war against Troy. Their inhabitants were Do­

rians, and formed the three Dorian tribes of the island,

Lindus itself being of one the Dorian hexapolis in

the south-west of Asia Minor. Previous to the year

B. c. 408, when Rliodes was built, Lindus, like the

other cities, formed a little state by itself, bnt when

Rhodes was founded, a great part of the population

and the common government was transferred to the

new city. (Diod. xii. 75.) Lindus, however, though

it lost its political importance, still remained an inte­

resting place in a religions point of view, for it con­

tained two ancient and much revered sanctuaries,—

one of Athena, hence called the Lindian, and the

other of Heracles. The former was believed to

have been built by Danaus (Diod. v. 58; Callim.

Fraom. p. 477, ed. Ernesti), or, according to others,

by his daughters on their flight from Egypt. (Herod,

ii. 182; Strab. xiv. p. 655; comp. Plin. II. N.

xxxiii. 23; Act. Apost. xvii. 17.) The temple of

Heracles was remarkable, according to Lactantiiis

