ROMA. KOMA. 7f>l

(■tatnunet ante senatulum,"L 8). This nrast

an two nor the senaculum of the Curia Hostilia,

lit mold hardly hare been the same. If Macrobius

i ri|fct. then Festus is wrong in limiting the sena-

aiilo three; and it does not seem improbable that

k mt near temples, where the senate was ac-

araned to meet, may have been called senacula.

To Aaras Marcins we can only ascribe the Car-

rz AMn:riM s. or prison described by Livy as

reluagiDg the forum ('" media arbe, imminens foro,"

K). It is still to be seen near the arch of

"•"->. under the church of S. Giuseppe dei Fa-

*? kite before remarked that a new architectural  
i t»ki» at Borne with the reign of Tarquinius

ana: and if he had not been interrupted by wars,

I nold doubtless have carried out many of those

mi arhmea which he was destined only to pro-

'. He may almost be called the founder of the

vc, usee it was he who first surrounded it with

ntf booses and shops. According to Varro (ap.

araa. § L 8), be also founded the Temple of

itu an the forum at the spot where the altar

oa, though, according to another account, it was

r« tj Tali us Hostihus. At all events, it does

*-o to have been dedicated before the expul-  
I «f the kings (Macrob. I. «.), and according to

;• (a> 21). in the consulship of Sempronius and

anas, a. c 497. According to Becker (Bandb.

Ill) the rain of the three columns under the

atal an remains of it, and this, he asserts, is a

it Beaded certainty, which can be denied only by

asa who prefer their own opinion to historical

an, or wilfully shut their eyes. It appears to

b^rrer, judging from these very historical

that there is a great deal more authority

im Italian view than for Becker's; according to

A taw temple of Saturn is the ruin of the eight

Baa, at the foot of the clivus. All the writers

(ru of it mention it as being at the lower

at tlaa bill, and beneath the clivus, while the

1 o>ma> are a good way up, and afore the

a. Tana Serrins (Am. ii. 115, viii. 319)

i' the te: .]'..• of .Saturn was " ante clivtim

avai; * mod in the Origo gentis Romanae

\ It is aaad to be " sab clivo Capitolino." In

asraar Varro (£.. L. v. § 42, Mull.) places it

atanafss (moutis Saturni);" and Dionysins,

Tj rev Aoepov, Kara rijy Slvu&ov ttjv

airb rfis ay opus aWpowrw els rb KawiT&jAior (i. 34),

FestuB (p. 322, Mull.) describes the ara as having

been "in imo clivo Capitolino." Moreover, the

miliarium aureum, which stood at the top of the

forum (Plin. iii. 9) was under the temple of Saturn;

"ad miliarium aureum, sub aedem Saturni" (Tac.//.

i. 27); "sub aedem Saturni, ad miliarium aureum"

(Suet. Otho. c. 6.) Further, the JUomtmenlum

Ancyranwn mentions the Basilica Julia as "inter

aedem Castoris et aedem Saturni." Now what has

Becker got to oppose to this overwhelming mass of

the very best evidence? His objections are, first,

that Servius (.Im;. ii. 116) mentions the temple of

Saturn as being "juxta Concordiae templum ; " and

though the eight columns are near the temple of

Concord, yet they cannot, without awkwardness, be

called juxta! Secondly, the KotUiay proceeding from

the Career Mamertinus, names the temples in ths

following order: Templum Concordiae et Saturni et

Vespasiani et Titi. Now, as the three columns are

next to the temple of Concord, it follows that they

belong to the temple of Satum. The whole force

of the proof here adduced rests on the assump-

tion that the Notitia mentions these buildings

precisely in the order in which they actually oc­

curred. But it is notorious that the authority of

the Notitia in this respect cannot be at all de­

pended on, and that objects are named in it in the

most preposterous manner. We need no other

witness to this fact than Becker himself, who says

of this work, " Propterea cavendum est diligenter,

ne, quoties plnra simul templa nominantur, eodem

ea online juncta fuisse arbitremur." (Z)e Muris,

&c, p. 12, note.) But thirdly, Becker proceeds:

"This argument obtains greater certainty from the

inscriptions collected by the Anonymous of Ein-

sicdlen. Fortunately, the entire inscriptions of all

the three temples are preserved, which may be still

partly read on the ruins. They run as follows:

'Senatus populusque Romanus incendio consumptum

restituit Divo Vespasiano Augusto[|. s. p. Q. K. impp.

Caess. Severus et Antoninus pii felic Aug. restitue-

ront.j|s.p.Q.R. aedem Concordiae vetustate collspsam

in meliorem faciem opere et cultu splcndidiore re-

stituerunt." Now as the whole of the first inscrip­

tion, with the exception of the last three words,

11 Divo Vespasiano Augusto," are still to be read

over the eight columns, and the letters estitver,

a fragment of " restituerunt" in the second inscrip­

TAatCLaJUL'M AND TEMPLES OF VESPASIAN, SATURN AND CONCORD.

