SELINUS. SELINUS. 957

Iiumtino by ceding without farther contest the

titier district which had been the original sub-

.1 • dispute. Bat the Selinantine9 were not

nsfai with this concession, and continued to press

m with fresh aggressions, for protection against

ikh they tonght assistance from Cartilage. This

li, after some hesitation, accorded them, and a

ail force sent over at once, with the assistance of

urh the Segeatauia were able- to defeat the Selinun-

m m a battle. (Diod. xiii. 43, 44.) But not

But with this, the Carthaginians in the following

mg (a. c 409) sent over a vast army amounting,

ifdng to the lowest estimate, to 100,000 men,

la which Hannibal (the grandson of Hamilcar

t was killed at Himera) landed at Lilybieurn,

I from thence marched direct to Selinus. The

iauntinea were wholly unprepared to resist such

wre; to little indeed had they expected it that

fartiScaticos of their city were in many places

•i repair, and the auxiliary force which had been

eiwd by Syracuse as well as by Agrigentum

I Gelt, was not yet ready, and did not arrive in

a The Selinuntines. indeed, defended themselves

fa the courage of despair, and even after the

h were carried, continued the contest from

■e to house; but the overwhelming numbers

tkr enemy rendered all resistance hopeless: and

r a siege of only ten days the city was tuken,

the greater part of the defenders put to the

ri Of the citiien* of Selinus we are told that

DOO were slain. 5000 made prisoners, and 2600

rr the command of Empcdion escaped to Agri-

raa. (Diod. xiii- 54—59.) Shortly after Han-

i destroyed the walls of the city, but gave

lission to the suniving inhabitants to return

ertupy it, as tributaries of Carthage, an nr-

lenrnt which was confirmed by the treaty sub-

aatly concluded between Dionysiua and the

Juginiana, in B. c. 405. (Id. xiii. 59, 111 )

at interral a considerable numlier of the survi-

and fugitives had been brought together by

narrates, and established within its walls, (/i.

I

brre can be no doubt that a considerable part of

rr!tiros of Selinus availed themselves of this

Mi on. and that the city continued to subsist

r the Carthaginian dominion; but a fatal blow

trr. given to its prosperity, which it undoubtedly

'reciTered. The Selinuntines are again men-

J it B. c 397 as declaring in favour of Dio-

■ during his) war with Carthage (Diod. xiv.

but both the city and territory were again

i ap to the Carthaginians by the peace of

(Id. XT. 17): »nd though Dionysiua recovered

■u of it by arms shortly before his death

XT. 73), it is probable that it soon again

i under the dominion of Carthage. The 11a-

, which was established as the eastern boun-

• f the Carthaginian dominion in Sicily by the

''if 383, seems to have generally continued

'w> recognised, notwithstanding temporary in-

ataett; and was again fixed as their limit by

rcaiy with AgauWles in B. c. 314. (Id. xix.

"1 hit last treaty expressly stipulated that Se-

, »« well as Heracleia and Hiincra, should con- |

■object to Carthage, as btfort. In n. c. 27G,

•er. daring the expedition of Pyrrhus to Sicily,

: ratines voluntarily submitted to that

nh, after the capture of Heracleia (Id. xxii.

Dr. B. p. 498.) During the First l'unic

ws again find Selinus subject to Carthage, and

its territory was repeatedly the theatre of military

operations between the contending powers. (Id.

xxiii. I, 21; Pol. i. 39.) But before the close of

the war (about B.C. 250), when the Carthaginians

were beginning to contract their operations, and

confine themselves to the defence of as few points

as possible, they removed all the inhabitants of

Selinus to Lilybaeum and destroyed the city. (Diod.

xxiv. 1. Exc. 'll. p. 506.)

It seems certain that it was never rebuilt. Pliny

indeed, mentions its name ("Selinus oppidum," iii 8.

s. 14), as if it was still existing as a town in his

time, but Strabo distinctly classes it with the cities

which were wholly extinct; and Ptolemy, though

he mentions the river Selinus, has no notice of a

town of the name. (Strab. vi. p. 272; Ptol. iii. 4.

§ 5.) The Thermae Selinustiae, which de­

rived their name from the ancient city, and seem to

have been much frequented in the time of the Ro­

mans, were situated at a considerable distance from

Selinus, being undoubtedly the same as those now

existing at Sciacca: they are sulphureous springs,

still much valued for their medical properties, and

dedicated, like most thermal waters in Sicily, to

St. Calogero. At a later period they were called

the Aquae Labodes or Larodes, under which name

they appear in the Itineraries, (/fin. Ant. p. 89;

7Vi6. Peut.) They are there placed 40 miles \V. of

Agrigentum, and 46 from Lilybaeum; distances

which agree well with the position of Sciacca. This

is distant about 20 miles to the E. of the ruins of

Selinus.

The site of the ancient city is now wholly deso­

late, with the exception of a solitary guardhouse, and

the ground is for the most part thickly overgrown

with shrubs and low brushwood; but the remains of

the nails can be distinctly traced throughout a

great part of their circuit. They occupied the

summit of a low hill, directly abutting on the sea,

and bounded on the W. by tho marshy valley

through which flows the river Matimm, the ancient

Selinus; on the E. by a smaller valley or depression,

also traversed by a small marshy stream, which

separates it from a hill of similar character, where

the remains of the principal temples are still visible.

The space enclosed by the existing walls is of small

extent, so that it is probable the city in the days of

its greatness must have covered a considerable area

without them; and it has been supposed by some

writers that the present line of walls is that erected

by Hermocrates when he restored the city after its

destruction by the Carthaginians. (Diod. xiii. 63.)

No trace is, however, found of a more extensive

circuit, though the remains of two lines of wall,

evidently connected with the port, are found in the

small valley E. of the city. Within the area sur­

rounded by the walls are the remains of three

temples, all of the Doric order, and of an ancient

style; none of them are standing, but the founda­

tions of them all remain, together with numerous

portions of columns and other architectural frag­

ments, sufficient to enable us to restore the plan and

design of all three without difficulty. The largest

of them (marked C. on the plan) is 230 feet lung

by 85 feet broad, and has 6 columns in front and

18 in length, a very unusual proportion. All these

are hexastyle and peripteral. Besides these three

temples there is a small temple or Aedicula (marked

It ), of a different plan, but also of the Doric order.

No other remains of buildings, beyond mere frag­

ment! and foundations, can be traced within the

