NIXGUM. 437 NINUS.

in Lksu, indeed (Jupiter Tragaed. § 42), the

AfTTftisM sacrificed to the element of water, not

.ojr, tot universally. Pictorially, the Nile was

rn>«t«d under a round and plump figure, of a

iv ctAwr, ud sometimes with female breasts, indi-

am 4 its productive and nutritive powers. On

tfa bast of tbc throne of Amenophis-Memnon, at

rWa, two figures represent the Nile, similar in all

«i#r aspects, except that one is crowned with lotus

Hasan the upper courses of the river, the other

nt patrroA lo designate the lower. [See Aeovp-

TtvaJ".] (ttcarllini. Mom. del Cull.; Kenrick's

.tumlktfjyt, vol. i. pp. 349—463.) [W.B.D.]

MiGCH. (Istoa.J

XIX1VE. [Siu-a.]

S1SXITACL [Mi-xaticum.]

SlSVSd "•»•» °r Hint, Herod i. 193, ii. 150;

I'm. 'i 1. § 3; Nu-or i) *al Nirtvt, Ptol. viii. 21.

{1; Xrat, Joseph. Ant. Jud ix. 10. § 2; Ninus,

Int. Jm. xii 13; Ninive, Amm. Marc xviii. 7,

n : 6: A'tA-'Niriot, Steph. B. $. v.), a great city,

c. isr msoT centuries the capital of ancient Assy-

rm hwilibt convenient to notice here such ac­

hats si we have from the Bible and ancient his-

i-jii. sod then to state succinctly the curious

™as* af the recent discoveries of Mr. Layard,

'x»l Bs.linscn, and other modern travellers.

L Xiaereb is first mentioned in the Bible among

: ' rnmerai cities in Genesis (x.ll), and is

Mated to have been founded either by Nimrod

or. according to another reading, by his

''Js-\ Assur, the'Atraovpas of Joseph. Ant.Jud.

lymus of A ■ jri i The latter

■ ihr mat agreeable to the construction of the

aS»»» teit From this period we have no mention

« : a HqJt Script a re for more than a thousand

janiaii when it is noticed again, on Jonah being

~-'.lrr to preach repentance, it is described as

■'orref three days' journey" (Jonah, iii. 3), and

* peat city wherein axe six bcore thousand  
pirn, tatt cannot discern between their right

ati ud their left hand." {Jonah, IT. 11.) Sub-

^4*7 to this time, it is not referred to by name,

ft*'-* ia 2 Kmc*, xix. 37, and Isaiah, xxxvi. 37,

--.■>-..t r,f Senn:ichcnb, after his return  
aw tat amaion of Judaea; in the prophets Nahum

iephaaiia. who predict its speedy downfal; and

tat ifwoTphaJ books of Tobit and Judith, the

jmm 4 wthac Ions; Ihred in the great city.

& Tot evue*t classical mention of Nineveh is

'Sandotaa, who places it on the Tigris (i. 193,

tttl bm does not state on which bank it stood;

ta W « canfirmed by Arrian {Hist. Ind. c. 42)

n one place calls it the metropolis

V"* la. Assyria (iL p. 84), in another states it to

)0r- ■ city more vast than even Babylon, lying

1 a** of Atoria (a dialectical change of name

gA»yria), beyuod the Lycos (or Grtai Zdb) with

^■"•toaxtola (xrL p. 737). Pliny places it

ft* aut hank of the Tigria "ad aolis occasum

°»»* (ri_ 13. s. 16); Ptolemy, along the Tigris,

*=^vt accurate definition of ita position (vi. 1.  
ML Tat an may be said of the notice in Taci-

pUsaai xii. 13), and in Ammianus, who calls it

^■7 of Adiabene. On the other hand, Dio-

ytftaiin to copy Ctesiaa, places it on the

■•(a. 3, 7), which is the more remarkable,

ft fapaaai of Xiculau* Damascenus, who has

*i « portion of Ctesiaa, is still extant, in  
Aonch area pies its correct position on the

{Frag, hist Grave, vol. iii. p. 858, ed.

Muller.) It may be remarked that in much later

times the name appears to have been applied to more

than one town. Thus Ammianus in one passage

seems to think that Hierapolis was the "vetus

Ninus" (xiv. 8). Philostratus (Vit. Apoll. Tyan.

i. 19) speaks of a Ninus on this side of the Euphra­

tes; and Eusebius, in his Chronicon, asserts, that in

his time it was called Nisibis. No doubt much of

the obscurity in the minds of ancient writers, both

as to its position and the real history of the empire

of which it was the capital, arose from the circum­

stance that its entire overthrow preceded the ear­

liest of the Greek historians by neurly 200 years,

and that it does not appear to have been rebuilt at

any period of the classical ages. So complete was

its destruction, that, though Xenophoo marched

within a few miles of it, he was not aware of its ex­

istence, though, in his allusion to the u Median city

of Mespila,*1 he doubtless is describing one of the

great outworks of the Assyrian capital (Anab. iii. 4.

§ 10); while, with the exception of Arrian, none of

the historians of the campaigns of Alexander, who,

like Xenophon, must have parsed it on his way to

light the battle of Arbela, allude to it. That the

ancients generally believed in its entire destruction,

is clear from Pausanias, who classes it with My­

cenae, Thebae, and other ruined cities (viii. 33. § 2);

from Lucian (Charon, c. 23), and from Strabo

(xvi. p. 737). The last, indeed, has on argument

that Homer, who mentions Thebes in Egypt, and

the wealth of Phoenicia, could not have omitted

Babylon, Nineveh, and Ecbatana, had he ever heard

of them (xv. p. 735). But though so early a ruin,

the ancients generally had a correct idea of the

wonderful greatness of Nineveh, and many passages

are scattered through the classical writers, giving a

manifest proof of this belief of the people. Thus

Strabo himself, as we have seen, considered Nineveh

greater than Babylon (xvi. p. 737); while Piodorus

has a long and exaggerated narrative of tlie vast

extent of Ninus's capital (which, as we Mated be­

fore, he places incorrectly on the Euphrates, ii.

p. 7). Some curious incidental facts are preserved.

Thus, the vast mound Semiramis erected as a tomb

for her husband Ninus, by the river-hide, is almost

certainly the Pyramid at Nimrud, though the re­

sults of Mr. Layard's last excavations have not

proved that this structure was a tomb. (Diod. ii. 7;

comp. with Layard, Nineveh and Babylon, p. 128).

Again, Amyntas (as quoted by Athenueus) states,

that at the town of Ninus was a high mound, which

was thrown down by Cyrus when he attacked the

city, that this was traditionally the tomb of Sard a-

napalus, and bad a stele on it inscribed with Chal-

daic (i. e. Assyrian) letters. (Amynt. Fragin p.

136, ed. MUller; cf. also Polyaen. vii. 25.) Nor

must we omit the presence of what has been held by

all numismatists to be a traditional representation of

this celebrated tomb on the Tetradrachms of Anti-

ochus VIII., king of Syria, which were struck at

Tarsus, and on the imperial coins of Anchialus

(both places connected with the name of Sarda-

napalus). Again we have the legend of Diodorus,

that the Assyrians sent assistance to the Trojans

against the Greeks (ii. 22; cf. Plat. lea. p. 296,

ed. Bekker), — the "busta Nini" of Ovid (Ale-

tank iv. 88), though referred by him wrongly to

Babylon.— and the occurrence, in several of the

poets, of the name of Assaracus (now known through

Colonel Rawlinaons interpretations to be a Graecized

form of the genuine Assyrian Assaiac, the 'Av&pax

f K 3

