516 PALAERUS. PALAESTINA.

rALAEKUS (UaKaifxis: Eth. UaXaiptus), a

town on tlie W. eo:ist of Aearnania, on the Ionian

sea, which is placed by Strabo between Lcucjis and

Aly/.ia. Its exact site is unknown. Leake places

it in the valley of Livddhi In the first year of the

Pelupon.ne.sian War (u. c. 431) Palacrus was in al­

liance with the Athenians; and when the latter

people took the neighbouring town of Sol hum,

which was a Corinthian colony, they cave both it

ami its territory to the inhabitants of Palaerus.

(Time, ii. :ti>; Strab. x. pp. 450, 459.)

PALAKSCEPSIS. 1 Scepsis.]

PALAES1MUNDUM ( Plin. vi. 22. s. 24), a great

town in the ancient Taprobane (Ceylon), an account

of which was tiven to the Romans by Annius Plo-

camus, who spent six mouths there during the reign

of the emperor Claudius. According to him, it was

situated on a river of the same name, which, flowing

from a great internal lake, entered the sea by three

mouths. It is probable that it is represented by the

present Triricumalce, in the neighbourhood of which

an- the remains of enormous ancient works for the

regulation of the course of the river—now called the i

Mahtti-i lla-Ganya. (Brooke, Geogr. Joum. vol,

iii. [i 223.) The name occurs under the form 1

Palaesimundu in the Periplus Mar. Erythr., and in

Marxian's PerijU. Maris Extort as the name of the

island itself. Thus the hr.it S]>eaks of vrjjos \(-

yopitvT) YlaKauripovSbov, but anciently Taprobane

(c. 61, ed. Mulb-r); and the second states that the ,

island of Tnpri'bane was formerly culled Palaesi­

mundu, but is now called Salice (c. 35. ed. Muller).

Ptolemy, and Stephaiius, who follows him, state that

the island IlaAcu fitv tKaAtiro "XindvfXav, rvv 5*

SaAiKTj (vii. 4. § 1). It is very probable, however, 1

that this is in both cases to be considered as an

erroneous reading, and that the true name was

Palaesiinundum. Lassen considers that it is de­

rived from the Sanscrit words Pali SimanUi, the

Head of the Holy haw. (Uusert. de Insula Tapro- I

banc, p. 14.) [V.]

PALAESTE, a town upon the coast of Chaonia [

in Epeirus, at the southern foot of the Acroccraunian

peak, where Caesar lauded from Brundusium, in

order to carry on the war against Pompey in Illyria.

(I,m an, Phars. v. 460.) In this vicinity there is a

modern village, called Palma; and-there can there- [

fore be little doubt that I.uenn has preserved tlie real

name of the place where Caesar landed, and that |

there is a mistake in the MSS. of Caesar, where the

name is written Pbarsalus. (Caes. Ii. C. iii. 6;

com p. Leake, Sortkem Grrtce, vol. i. p. 5.)

PALAESTI'XA (naA.oK7TiVrj : Eth, riaAai-

trrtvAs), the most commonly received and classical

name tor the country, otherwise called the Land of

Canaan, Judaea, the Holy Land, &c. This name

has the authority of the prophet Isaiah, among the

sacred writers; and was received by the earliest

secular historians. Herodotus calls the Hebrews

Syrians of Palestine; and states that the sea-border

of Syria, inhabited, according to him. by Phoenicians'

from the lied Sea, was called Palaestina, as far as

lv-'vpt (vii. 89). He elsewhere places Syria Palaes-

tina between Phoerdce and Egypt; Tyre and Sidon

in Phoenice; Ascalon,Cadytis, Ienystis in Palaestina

Svriae; elsewhere Ih' plat es Cadytis and Azotus

siinplv in Svria (iv. 39, iii. 5, ii. 116, 157, i. 105,

Hi. 4

Hie name, as derived from the old inhabitants of

the land, originally describe only the sea-border

Mouth of Mount Carmel, occupied by the Philistines

from the very earliest peril*!, and during tbe tin* o

the Israelite kingdom {Exod. xiii. 17); altboae.nl

would appear tliat this district was patul!y -»ra

pied by the cognate branches of the C&uaWUi

{Gen. x. 14, 19.) It afterwards came to be twd<

the inland parts likewise, and that not only * tfc

west of the Jordan, but also to the fist, as fr i

the limits of the children of Israel; and in ta

wider acceptation it will lie convenient here to ^

it: although it deserves to be noted that even ic is

as Joseph us the name Palaestina was oocaoi'.cii

used in its more restricted and projer s*^*-. n

of that part of the coast inhabited of old try ti

Philistines. (See the passages referred to id Erin

p. 41, who devotes the nine first chapter! U 1

work to the named of Palestine, pp. 1—51.)

I. General Boindariks, Soil, Cumvtl

The general boundaries of Palestine, is this*™

acceptation of the name, are clearly definM hj i

Mediterranean on the vest, and the great fl*w

now called the Ifauran, on the east. [H-irx*!

The country, however, on the cast of Jordan i

not originally designed to form part of the iaad

Israel; which was to have been bounded by:

Jordan and its inland lakes, (Xutnb. im.

10—12; comp. xxxii.) The northern and »

era boundaries are not so clearly defined; but d

probable that a more careful inTestigalion

more accurate survey of the count/7 tLm

hitherto been attempted might lead to the rr^

of many of the sites mentioned in the sacre4 i-«

and of natural divisions which might help w

elucidation of the geography of Palestine. UB

south, indeed, recent investigations hare led V*

discovery of a well-defined mountain harrier. fVa

a natural wall along the south of Palestine. fr<D

southern bay of the Dead Sea to the Meuiterras

along the line of which, at intervals, may be fi

traces of the names mentioned in the borders b

books of Moses and Joshua, terminating on tSe

with the river of Egypt ( Wady-tl-A risk ) ±1 B'

rnra. (Numb, xxxiv, 3—5; comp. J' - -■. xt. 1-

Williams, Hvly City, vol. i., appendix i., ix-te 1. f

—46S.) (>n the northern border the irieati

Mount Hor is perplexing; the point 00 the cm

"the great sea" is not fix'-d; n<>r are the hi

Hamath or Zedad determined. (A'—ia. xxxjt.

comp. Eiek. xlvii. 15, 16.) But wltatever mo

may l>e given of the name H«»r in the o«

Ixirders of Palestine, the mention of Hcnum a

northern extremity of the Lcraelitoa' con^tn

Deuteronomy (iii. 9, v. 48) would potat w

rather than to Lebanon, which Rekand cr»ev«

as the mountain in question: while the ra-l

Sidon is assigned to the tr.be of A^her {J* «

21) would prove that the }^iint on the <--

be fixed north of thai border town of th* Cutat

{Gen. x. 19; Ja*h. xix. 28.) The pre»nt M

near to Ihmut (Kim'sa), is much tio far r> 1

fall in with the boundary of Palestine, ar>d »:

be concede"! that we have not at present mmi

data to enable us to determine its nortber?!

(Reland, lib. i. cap. 25, pp. 113—123.) To I

must be added that the limits of I*alestixr-e

at different periodi of its historr, at.d *c.-s~

the views of ditl'ereut writers (ih. cap. 2?*, %

—127"), and that the common error ol" cr*rfi.4

the limits of the possessions of the LsneJc«

those assigned to their conquests hai *tj_",:

embarrassed the question. Assuming, i.

