ROMA. ROMA. 7S6

«M 5 Sain now stand. It arena probable that it

uiast, at all errata, bare included a considerable

prua of it, since, had it proceeded along the

vmiar/, it would have been commanded by the hill;

snJ ualnd the matt natural supposition is that it

wtaatd the whole, since the more extended line it

w\«Jtl thai hare described affords room for the

in era! fttn which we find mentioned between the

fterta Trigemina and the Porta Capena near the

bate/the'Caeban.

Aaaone; these we must, perhaps, assume a Porta

ioocu or Mixutla, which is twice mentioned by

'atlas (pp. 122, 147), and whose name, he says,

■at arrival from an ara or sacellum of Minucius,

>a«a the Romans beld to be a god. We bear

• •aen else of such a Roman deity; but we learn

r»* Pliny (xriii. 4) that a certain tribune of the

*-\.»e, named Minutius Auguriuus, had a statue  
r*ried to him, by public subscription, beyond the

"arts Tormina, for baring reduced the price of

«ra. This occurred at an early period, since the

at«7 is narrated by Livy (ir. 13—16)

• . 436. with tlia additional information that it

v Mumlioa who procured the condemnation of

"great corn monopoliser, Maelius, and that the

-U5* alluded to was a gilt bull. It is possible  
■men that the gate may bare been named after

-i; sad that from the extraordinary honours paid  
k.SL he may hare come in process of time to be

tirvly mistaken for a deity. If there is any truth

i ts^a view, the gate may be placed somewhere on

■ & aio of* the Aventine.

k the mutilated fragment which we possess of

description of the Roman gates (L.L. v. §

U, Mull.) be closes it by mentioning three, which

-> impossible to place anywhere except in the line

•vi between tlie Arentine and Caehan. He had

w~. tpaakiog of a place inhabited by Ennius, who

■a <m the Arentine (Hieron. Citron. 134, vol. i.

'■ti. Kuic.), and then mentions consecutively a

arrs Xaxvxa, Pocta Raldusclxa, and Porta

DiEXAUa. He must therefore be enumerating

e C*te» ia 'Jie order from W. to E., since it would be

fw.iie to find room for three more gates, besides

at already mentioned, on the Aventine. The 1'.

w j. therefore, probably lay in the valley between

• tt& aad the adjoining height to the K. It

s-j tit. hat* been situated on the Aventine itself,

as Um Bant Cafritolina, mentions in the 12th

do, or 1'ncina Publics, a vicus Porta Naevia, as

i at s&-<Lrr of Porta Raudusculana. But the

»l p-irTr— of the latter gate, as well as of the

rta Lanrnaiia, it ia impossible to determine fur-

- -js that they lay in the line of wall between  
'Ateaune and Caelian.

tiir to much oncertainty it is refreshing to

;n at but at a gate whose site may be accurately

d. Tha Poarxa Capkxa lay at the foot of the

daa hill, at a short distance W. of the spot

n tae Via Latina diverged from the Via Appia.

• Utur navd issued from the P. Capena, and

u^arrry of the first milestone upon it, in a

rtt-t a abort distance outside of the modem

u i £ Scbastiano, lias enabled the topographer

&atr;T to determine its site to be at a spot now

tat by a peat with the letters p. c, 300 yards

■fel the Vim <SL Grtgorio, and 1480 within the

an gate That it was seated in the valley,

■an man the fact that the Rivns Herculaneua,

airy a branch of the Anna Marcia, passed over

•Lkb, aa an expressly told, lay too low to

supply the Caelian hill. (Front. Aq. 18.) Hence

Juvenal (iii. 11):—

"Substitit ad rcteres arena madidamque Capcnam,"

where we learn from the Scholia that the gate,

which in later times must have lain a good way

within the town, was called " Arcus Stillaus." So

Martial (iii. 47)..-—

"Capena grandi porta qua pluit gutta."

A little way beyond this gate, on the Via Appia,

between its point of separation from the Via Latins

and the P. S. Scbaetiano, there still exists one of the

most interesting of the Roman monuments — the

tomb of the Stipios, the site of which is marked by

a solitary cypress.

From the Porta Capena the nail must have

ascended the Caelian hill, and skirted its southern

side; but the exact line which it described in its

progress towards the agger can only be conjectured.

Becker (/landb. p. 167), following Piale and Bunsen,

draws the line near the OtptilaU di S. Giovanni,

thus excluding that part of the hill on which the

Laterun is situated, although, as Canina observes

(Indicazione, p. 36), this is the highest part of the

hill. There was perhaps a gate at the bottom of the

present Piazza di Xavi&lla, but we do not know its

name; and the next gate respecting which there is

any certainty is the Porta Cakumontas a. Bunsen

(Besc/ir. i. p. 638) and Becker, in conformity with

their line of wall, place it by the hospital of 5.

Giovanni, now approached by the ria 5. 5. Quattro

Coronaii, the ancient street called Caput Al'ricae.

The Porta Qukrcji etuhna, if it was really a dis­

tinct gate and not another name for theCacliaiontana,

must have stood a little to the N. of the latter, near

the church of 5. 5. Pietro e Marcellino, in the

valley which separates the Caelian from the Esqui-

line. This gale, which was also called Queniue-

tuluria, is several times mentioned, but without any

more exact definition. (I'lin. xvi. 15; Festus, p.

261.) The Caelian hill itself, as we have before

remarked, was anciently calied Querouctulanus.

From this point the wall must have run northwards

in a tolerably direct line till it joined the southern ex­

tremity of the agger, where the Porta Escji ilina

was situated, between which and the Querquetulana

there does not appear to have been any other gate.

The Flsquilina, like the others on the agger, is

among tho most certain of the Roman gates. We

learn from Strabo (v. p. 237) that the Via Labicana

proceeded from it; whilst at a little distance the

Praenestina branched off from the Labicana. It

must therefore have lain near the church of S. I'iVo

and the still existing arch of Gallienus; but its

exact site is connected with the question respecting

the gates in the Aurelian wall which corresix>nded

with it, and cannot therefore at present be deter­

mined. The site of the Porta Collina, the point

from which we started, is determined by the fact

mentioned by Strabo (/&. p 228) that both the Via

Salaria and Via Nomeutana started from it; and it

must consequently have stood near the northern

corner of the baths of Diocletian at the commence­

ment of the present I'ia del Macao. We learn

from Paulus Diaconus (p. 10) that this gate was

also called Agoncnsis and Quiiinalis. Agonus, as

we have said, was the ancient name of the Quirinal

hill.

The Porta Collina, then, and the Porta Esquilina

were seated at the northern and southern extremities:

3c 2

