4 70 OEUM. OGYRIS.

of the Messenlnn gulf, represented by the modern

town of Yitylo, which has borrowed its name from

it. Pausanias .says that it was 80 stadia from

Thalamus and 150 from Messa; the latter distance

is too great, hut there is no doubt of the identity of

Oetylus and Vitylo; and it appears that Pausanias

made a mistake in the names, as the distance between

Oetylus and Caenepolis is 150 stadia. Oetylus is

mentioned by Homer, anil was at a later time one of

the Eleathero-Laconian towns. It was still governed

by its c|<hors in the third century of the Christian

era. Pausanias saw at Oetylus a temple of Sarapis,

and a wooden statue o£ Apollo Cameius in the

agora. Anions the modem houses of Vitylo there

are remains of Hellenic walls, and in the church a

beautiful tinted Ionic column supporting a beam at

one end of the aisle, and three or four Ionic capitals

in the well of the church, probably the remains of

the temple of Sarapis. (Horn. //. ii. 585; Strab. viii.

p. 360; Paus. iii. 21. § 7, 25. § 10, 26. § 1; Steph.

15. s. v.; Ptol./.t*.; But kh, /. c.; Morritt, in Walpole's

Turkey, p. 54; Leake, .\forea, vol. i. p. 3 J 3; Boblaye,

lierfierches, <Jc. p. 92; Curtius, PttoponncsoSj vol. ii.

p. 283.)

OEUM (O7oi'), a mountain fortress situated in

eastern Locris, above Opus, and destroyed by an

earthquake. (Strab. i. p. CO.) According to Gell

its ruins are to be seen on a steep hill, 25 minutes

above Livanitit. (/fin. p. 232.)

OEUM or IUM (OioV, Olov, *IdV: Eth. O/dVij*,

'IaT7js), the chief town of the district Sciritis in La-

conia, commanded the puss through which was the

r«>ad from Tegea to Sparta. It probably stood in the

Ktisura, or narrow pass through the watershed of the

mountains forming the natural boundary between

Laconia and Arcadia. When the Theban army

under Kpaminondas first invaded Laconia in four

divisions, hy tour different passes, the only division

which encountered any resistance was the one which

marched through the pftSS defended hy Oeum. But

the Spartan Ischolaus, who commanded a body of

troops at this place, was overpowered by superior

numbers; and the invading force thereupon pro­

ceeded to Sellasia, where they were joined by the

other divisions of the army. (Xen. Hell, vi. 5.

24—26.) In Xenophon the town is called *\6v

anil the inhabitants 'Iorcu; but the form O.'oe or

Olov is probably more correct. Such towns or villages,

situated upon mountainous heights, are frequently

called Oeum or Oea. (Coinp. Harpocrat s. v. Ohv.)

Probably the Oeum in Sciritis is referred to in Ste­

ph anus under Olos' iroh'ixviov Ityias. Afox^Aos

Mi/(To*s' ol TroKirat OiOTOl.

Oeum is not mentioned subsequently, unless we

suppose it to be the same place as Iasl'S ("Iaaoj),

which Pausanias describes as situated within the

frontiers of Laconia, but belonging to the Achaean*.

(PaUS. \ii. 13. § 7; com p. Said. $. r. "Iarro?; Leake,

Murea, vol. Hi. p. 30; Ross, ReUen m Pelopottnei^

p. 179; Curtius, Pclopomusos, vol. ii. p. 2(34.)

OEUM CERAMEICUM. [Attica, p. 326, a.]

OEUM DECELE1CUM. [Attica, p. 330, a.]

(KiDAKMI. [Makmakh \.]

OGLASA, a small island in the Tyrrhenian or

IJgurian sea, lietween Corsica and the coast of

Etrnria. (I'tin. iii. 6. s. 12.) It is now called

J/cmfc Crista. [E. 11. B.J

OGY'GIA ('Clyvylrf) is the name given by Homer

in the Odyssey to the island inhabited by tlie nymph

Calypso. He describes it as the central point or

navel of the sea (vij.<pa\os daAdao-qs), far from a'U

other lands ; and the only clue to its positko iWk

he gives us is that Ulysses reached it ifierteaj

borne at sea for eight days and nights after hfki

escaped from Charybdis; and that when h« qinnai

it again he sailed fur seventeen days and nights ifl

a fair wind, having the Great Bear on his left bad

(i.e. in an easterly direction), until he can* in crfs.

of the land of the Phaeacians. (Mom. "-In: L 30,

85, v. 55. 268—280, xii. 448.) It is hardly ■«■>

sary to observe that the Homeric geography iia>

gard to all these distant lauds must be confident!

altogether fabulous, and that it is unpojoaail

attach any value to the distances above siven. m

are wholly at a lass to account fur the

assigned by the Greeks in later days to the

of the Odyssey: it is certain that nothing a

accord with the data (?-uch as they are) stipplad

Homer than the identifications they adopted,

the island of Calypso was by many fixed

coast of Bruttium, near the Lacinian

where there is nothing but a mere rock of vert

size, and close to the shore. (Plin. iii- 10. a,

Swinburne's Travels, voL i. p.225.) Oihera,

placed the abode of the goddess in the

Gaulos (or Goto), an opinion apparently

vanced by CalUmachns (Strab. i. p. 44. vii. p.

and which has at least some semblance of

bility. But the identification of Phaeacia witfc

cyra. though more generally adopted in

has really no more foundation than that of QfM

with Gaulos: so that the only thing apprad|

to a geographical statement fails on c

It is indeed only the natural desire to gift

creations of poetic fancy a local habitation as

gible reality, that could ever have led to tba

dating the scenes in the Odyssey with pa

spots in Sicily and Italy; and the view of

stheoes, that the geography of the voyage of EW

was wholly the creation of the poet's fancy,"

tainly the only one tenable. At the same 1

cannot lie denied that some of the fables then

were founded on vague rumours brought by v«_

probably Phoenicians, from these distant lands,

the account of Scylla and Chary bdis,

aggerated, was doubtless based on truth. 1

very character of these marvels of the far«

the tales concerning them, in itself excludes 1

that there ffil any accurate geographical ka

of them. The ancients themselves were ati

as to whether the wanderings of Ulysses U

within the limits of the Mediterranean, arl

tended to the ocean beyond. (Strab. i. pp. >

The fact, in all probability, is that Homer

conception of the distinction between the I

is at least very doubtful whether he was 80

even with the existence of Italy; and ta

expanse of the sea beyond it was tmdesA

him a region of mystery and fable.

The various opinions pot forth bv and

'modern writers concerning the Homeric 0

| are well reviewed by Ukert {Geographic anH

u. Homer, vol. i. part ii. pp. 310—319);

inferences that may n-ally l»e drawn from

'guage of the poet himself are clearly stated

(/&. part i. pp. 19—31.) [E.1

0GYKIS(En7vp(J, Strab. xvi p. 766%i

off the southern coast of Carmania

stadia, which was traditionally said to

tomb of king Erytbras, from which the

supposed to have derived its name. It wsa3

by a huge mound planted with wild palms. 1

