MESSEXIA. 345 MESSEXIA.

iv. 43.) That these districts were those of Alagonia,

Grrenia, Cardamyle, and Leuctru, situated north­

ward of the smaller Pamisus, which flows into the

Messenian golf just below Leuctra, we may conclude

from the statement of Strabo (viii. p. 361) that

this river had been the subject of dispute between

the Messenians and Lacedaemonians before Philip.

The Messenians appear to have maintained that

their territory extended even further south in the

lust ancient times, since they alleged that the

island of Pephnus had once belonged to them.

(Pans. ir. 26. § 3.) [Pephni's.] At a later time

the Messenians joined the Achaean League, and

fought along with the Achaeans and Antigonus

Down at the battle of Sellasia, B. C. 222. (Paus.

ir. 29. § 9.) Long before this the Lacedaemonians

appear to bare recovered the districts assigned to

the Messenians by Philip; for after the battle of

Sellasia the boundaries of the two people were

a?sin settled by Antigonus. (Tac Ann. I. c.)

Shortly afterwards Philip V. sent Demetrius of

Pharos, who was tben living at his court, on an

expedition to surprise Messene; but the attempt was

uranccefcful, and Demetrius himself was slain.

(Polyb. iii. 19; Paus. iv. 29. §§ 1—5, where this

attempt is erroneously ascribed to Demetrius II.,

kin* «f Macedonia.) Demetrius of Pharus had ob­

served to Philip that Jit. Itbome and the Acroco-

rijithus were tjie two horns of Peloponnesus, and

that whoever held these horns was master of the

bulL (Strab. viii. p. 3C1.) Afterwards NabiA,

tyrant of Lacedaenion, also made an attempt upon

Messene, and had even entered within the walls,

when he was driven back by Philopoemen, who

cwne with succours from Megalopolis. (Pans. iv.

29. § 10.) In the treaty made between Nabis

and the Romans in B.C. 195, T. Quintius Flamininus

compelled him to restore all the property he had

taken from the Messenians. (Liv. xxxiv. 35 ; Plut.

Flumn. 13.) A quarrel afterwards arose between

the Messenians and the Achaean League, which ended

in open war. At first the Achaeans were unsuc­

cessful. Their general Philopoemen was taken

prauier and put to death by the Messenians, B. c.

1S3; but Lycortas, who succeeded to the command,

not only defeated the Messenians in battle, but cap-

tared their city, and executed all who had taken

put in the death of Philopoemen. Messene again

j^oed the Achaean League, but Abia, Thuria, and

H>*ne now separated themselves from Messene, ana

bfcame each a distinct member of the league. (Paus.

iv. SO. §§ 11, 12; Liv. xxxix. 49; Polyb. xxiv. 9,

Kq, xxv. 1.) By the loss of these states the ter­

ritory of Messene did not extend further eastward

tW the Pamisus; but on the settlement of the

affairs of Greece by Mummius, they not only re­

wired their cities, but also the Dentheliates Ager,

vhtch the Lacedaemonians had taken possession of.

(T»e. Ann. iv. 43.) This district continued to be

» soiject of dispute between the two states. It

»u again assigned to the Messenians by the Mile-

"ao*. to whose arbitration the question had been

sabrnitted, and also by Atidius Geminus, praetor of

Attaia. (Tac. i c.) But after the battle of Ac­

tum Augustus, in order to punish the Messenians

for laving espoused the side of Antony, assigned

Tharia and I'narae to the Lacedaemonians, and

•"•nequectly the Dentheliates Ager, which lay cast

« these states. (Paus. iv. 31. § 2, comp. iv. 30.

J 2.) Tacitus agrees with Pausanias, that the

wothehates Ager belonged to the Lacedaemonians

in the reign of Tiberius; but he differs from the

latter writer in assigning the possession of the

Lacedaemonians to a decision of C. Caesar and M.

Antonius (" post C. Caesaris et Marci Antonii sen-

tentia redditum "). In such a matter, however, the

authority of Pausanias deserves the preference. We

learn, however, from Tacitus (/. c), that Tiberius

reversed the decision of Augustus, and restored the

disputed district to the Messenians, who continued

to keep possession of it in the time of Pausanias;

for thi* writer mentions the woody hollow called

Choerius, 20 stadia south of Abia, as the boundary

between the two states in his time (iv. 1. § 1, iv. 30.

§ 1). It is a curious fact that the district, which

had been such a frequent subject of dispute in an­

tiquity, was in the year 1835 taken from the go­

vernment of Misthra (Sparta), to which it had

always belonged in modem times, and given to that

of Kalamdta. (Ross, Reisen im Peloponnnei, p. 2.)

IV. Towns.

1. In the plain of Stenyclervg. — Andania, the

capital of the Messenian kings before the Dorians.

Oechalia, at the distance of 8 stadia from Andania,

the reputed residence of Eurytus, occupied, according

to Pausanias, the grove of cypresses called Carnasium.

Am I'M i-:i A.in the mountains on the borders of Arcadia.

Two roads led into Arcadia: the more northerly ran

along the river Charadrus past Carnasium (Paus.

viii. 35. § I); the more southerly started from

Messene, and was a military road made by Epami-

nondas, to connect more closely the two newly

founded cities of Messene and Megalopolis. (Paus.

viii. 34; comp. Leake, Aforea., vol ii. p. 296.)

Stenyclarus, the capital of the Dorian conquerors,

and which gave its name to the plain, was also on

the borders of Arcadia. Ira or ElKA, where the

citizens maintained themselves during the Second

Messenian War, was situated upon the mountain of

this name, to the north of the plain above the river

Neda. At the extreme south of this plain, com­

manding also the entrance of the plain Macaria, was

Messekk, with its citadel Ithome. To the west

part of the plain, on the road from Andania to

Cyparissia, were Policiine and DoKii'M.

2. Jn die plain of Macaria. — Pherae, the

modern Kalamdta, situated about a mile from the

sea, on the left bank of the river Nedon, was in

antiquity, as it is at present, the chief town in the

plain. Three roads lead from Pherae: one south­

wards along the coast to Abia, said to be the Ho­

meric Ira; a second up the valley of the Nedon,

across Mt. Taygetus to Sparta, one of whose gates

was hence called the gate towards Pharae (" porta

quae Pharas ducit," Liv. xxxv. 30); while the third

road ran across the Nedon in a north-easterly direc­

tion to Calamae, the modern Kalami, where it

divided into two, the one to the west going across the

Pamisus, and the other to the north leading to

Thuria, of which there were two towns so called,

and from thence to the sources of the Pamisus. To the

east of Pherae was the mountainous district called

the Ager Dentheliates, and containing Limnae,

which has been already described.

3. In the western peninsula and on the westei-n

coast.—Corone and AsiNEwere on the Messenian

gulf, and consequently on the east coast of this

peninsula. The situation of C'oix)NI»es is un­

certain, some placing it on the Messenian gulf, and

others near the harbour Phoenicus, NW. of the

promontory Acritas. At the extreme southern point

