LIGURIA.

is: LIGURIA.

them with the Romans, that these leagues were ex­

tremely variable and partial. The names of many

i>f the different tribes have been transmitted to us;

bat it is often difficult, or impossible, to determine

with any decree of certainty the situation or limits

of their respective territories. It is probable, as

pointed out by Pliny, that these limits themselves

varied much at different times (Plin. iii. 5. s. 6),

and many of the minor tribes, whose names are

mentioned by Livy in the history of the Roman

comment of Liguria, seem to have at a later period

disappeared altogether.* The only tribes concerning

whom we have any tolerably definite information are:

— 1. the Afuani, in the valley of the Macra, and

about the Portus Lunae ; but the greater part uf the

territory which had once belonged to this powerful

tribe was not included in Roman Liguria, 2. The

Fkimatks, who may be placed with much probabi­

lity in the upper valley of the Scultenna, or Panaro,

i>n the N. slope of the Apennines towards Mutina

(% district .still called Frtgnano); so that they also

were excluded from Liguria in the later sense of the

term. 3. The literalatks may perhaps be placed

in the vailey of the Vara, the most considerable

ronflnent of the Magra, called by Ptolemy the

Iifictes. 4. The Gkkuateh, known to us only

fn-tti an inscrip'ion [Genua], were obviously the

inhabitants of Genua and its immediate neighbour­

hood. 5. The Vktlrit, mentioned in the same in-

firriplion, adjoined the Oenuates on the W.. and were

apparently separated from them by the river Porci-

ftra. or Polcevf-ra 6. The more powerful and cele-

braied tribe *•{ the lxoAUNI may be placed With

certainty on the coast near Albenga (Albium In-

^amiom), though we cannot fix their limits with any

precision. 7. Tlie Intkmeui occupied the coast

W. of the Ing.iuni: their chief town was Albium

hitemelium, now Vintimiglia. 8. The Vkdiakth

inhabited the country on both sides of the Varus, as

their name is evidently retained by the town of

Peace, some miles W. of that river ; while Cemene-

Fram, about A miles to the E. of it, also belonged to

them. (Plin. iii. 5. s. 7.)

r*f the tribes N. of the Apennines, or inhabiting

the talieys of that range which slope towards the

Paritw, the most conspicuous were ;—1. The Vagi-

Dnn, whose capital was Augusta Vagiennorum,

now Bene, between the Stura and the Tanaro,

*\i\\* their confines appear to have extended as far  
xt the Monte \"i*o and the sources of the Po.

2. The Statikmj, whose pmition is marked by

the celebrated watering-place of Aquae Staticllae,

*.«■ Acqui. 3. The Taurini, whose capital was  
Ati^osta Taurinoruin, now Turin, and who appear

13 have occupied the whole country on both sides of

tbe Padua, from the foot of the Cottian Alps to the

bi&lLs of the Tartarus. 4. The Euburiates (Flor.

u. 3; Plin. iii. 5. s. 7) may be placed, according to

* l"al antiquary, in the hills of the Astiyiana.  
(liurandi, Pitmonte Cutpadano, cited by Walckenacr,

CVopr. nes Gaulet, vol. i. p. 161.) 5. E. of these

wast be placed several smaller tribes mentioned by

Ijvy in the history of the Roman wars with Liguria,

aadbf which we know only that they were situated

• The same thing is the case with the names of

thrw Lipurian tribes, cited by Stephanas of Byxan-

ti*m («. r.) from Theophrastus,—the Arbaxani,

Kat4L, and Ipsicuri. Of these we do not know even

vtuther they dwelt in Italy or ou the southern coast

tfGnL

on the N. side of the Apennines. These are the

Celelates, Cerdiciates, and apparently tlic Ilvatcs

also. (Liv. xxxii. 29, 31.) 6. The Efanterii

are mentioned also by Livy (xxviii. 46) as a tribe

who occupied the mountains above the Ingauni; but

no subsequent mention of them occurs.

In addition to these, Livy notices the Garuli,

Hercates, and Lapicini, as situated on the S. side of

the Apennines (xli. 19). but we have no further

clue to their position. Pliny also enumerates (iii. 5.

s. 7) among the Ligurian tribes on the Italian side

of the Alps, the Veneni, Bim belli, Magelli, Cas-

monates, and Veleiates, of which the last doubtless

occupied the country around Veleia, the ruins of

which still remain about eighteen miles S. of

Placentia. The others are wholly unknown, and

the names themselves vary so much in the Mfc>S. as

to be of very doubtful authority.

The coast of Liguria, as already described, is

bordered closely throughout its whole extent by the

ranges of the Maritime Alps and Apennines, which

for the most part rise very abruptly from the sea­

shore, in other places leave a narrow strip of fertile

territory between their foot and the sea, but nowhere

is there anything like a plain. This steep coast

also affords very few natural ports, with the ex­

ception of the magnificent bay called the Portus

Lunae (now the Gulf of Spezia) near its eastern

extremity, which is one of the most spacious and

secure harbours in the Mediterranean. The port of

Genua also caused it to be frequented from the

earliest times as a place of trade (Strab. iv. p. 202),

while the Portus Herculis Monoeci (J/onaco), though

small, was considered secure. It is singular that

the much more spacious and secure harbour of

ViUafrtmca, in the same neighbourhood, is not

mentioned by any ancient writer, though noticed in

the Maritime Itinerary under the name of Portus

Olivulae. The same Itinerary (pp. 503, 504) notices

two small ports, which it places between this last

and that of Monaco, under the names of Auao and

Avisio, which may probably be placed respectively at

S. Ospizio and Eza. [Nicaea.] The Portus

Maukici of the same Itinerary is still called Porto

Maurizio, a small town about two miles W. of

Oneglia.

The rivers of Liguria are not of much importance.

From the proximity of the mountains to the S. coast,

the streams which descend from them to the sea are

for the most part mere mountain torrents, altogether

dry in summer, though violent and destructive in

winter and after heavy rains. Almost the only ex­

ceptions are the two rivers which formed the extreme

limits of Liguria on the E. and \V,, the Macra and

the Vaucs, both of which are large and perennial

streams. Next in importance to these is the Rutuba

or lioja, which flowed through the country of the

Intcmvlii. It rises at the foot of the Col di Tenda,

in the Maritime Alps, and has a couise of above 36

miles from thence to the sea at Vintimiglia. The

smaller streams on the S. coant were:—the Paulo

(Paglione), which flowed by the walls of Nicaea

(Plin. iii. 5. a. 7 ; Mel. ii. 4. § 9): the Tavia {Itin.

Marit. p. 503) still called the Taggia, between S.

Remo and Porto Maurizio; the Mkjui.a (Plin.

/. c), which still retains its name, and fulls into the

sea between Onefflia and Albenga; the PoRClFEltA

of Pliny {I. c), now called the Polctvera, which

flows a few miles to the W. of Genoa ; iIicFeritor

(/A.), on the E. of the same city, now the Bisagno;

the Enti.l.i-a (PtoL iii. I. § 3), which is probably

