802 ROMA.

3. There are evident traces that Trajan's forum

extended still farther to the NW., though it is

donbtfnl whether this extension was owing to Trajan

himself or to Hadrian. Excavations in tliis direc­

tion have brought to light enormous granite pillars

belonging probably to the temple which Hadrian

dedicated to Trajan (Spart. IJadr. 19), and which

TEMTLE OF TKA.1AN.

TEMPLE OF Tlt.UAX.

is mentioned in the Xotitia in conjunction with the

column. This is further confirmed by some in­

scriptions bearing the name of Hadrian which have

been discovered in this quarter. (Bnnsen, fos Fo­

rum Romaint, iid* partie, p. 35.) Thus the space

occupied by these noble structures extended from

the fori of Caesar and Augustas almost to the Via

Lata, or to the modern Piazza degH Apo$to8.

How long the forum of Trajan existed is un­

certain. The Anonymous of Kinsiedlcn mentions it

in the way from Porta Nomentana to the Forum

Romannm. In the Mirabiiia it seems to be spoken

of as a thing that has disappeared.

VI. Tiif. Palatine and Vei.ta.

After the Capitol and forum, the Palatine hill is

undoubtedly the most interesting sjwt at Home, both

from its having been the cradle of the eternal city,

and also the seat of its matured power — the resi­

lience of the emperors when those emperors ruled

the world, or, in the words of Tacitus, " ipsa imperii

nrx" (II. iii. 70),—a circumstance from which it

has given name to the residences of subsequent

princes. (Dion Cass. liii. 16.) In treating of the

topography of this region, and indeed of that of the

remainder of the city, we shall not endeavour to ob-

>erve a chronological order, as was desirable in treat­

ing of the forum, in order that the reader might

gain a clear idea of its appearance in the various

|>eriod* of Itoman history; but shall follow the most

convenient method without regard to the dates of the

different objects mentioned. We hive s'nadT t*.

scribed the situation and height of the til Thl

latter, however, cannot l>e very aecuratel; nv!m»»

the soil is covered to a great depth with i

the sole remains of those magnificent edifice* i

once stood upon it. On the side of the Grew!

mus, indeed, in the Vigim del Colltgio /a^fcat,!!

ruins assume something of a i

but the gigantic arches and terraces at I

though they may still excite our wonder,

sufficiently perfect to enable us to trace isjj

of the buildings which they once fanned,

ever, they must all have been sabsaqcMt

time of Nero; since the ravages of the fin 1

that emperor were particularly de*!nirO*t ■

Palatine hill. Hence the chief topographically

rest attaches to the declivities of the hiU, i

present more facilities for ascertaining fptfi I

nected with and sanctified by the early t

the city,— of which several hare already fa

cussed, as the Porta Komanula and Clin* \

the Porta Mugionis, the Curiae Veteres.4

We have already Men that the dexirntyti

the Capitoline hill was called Gi

CERatALUS; but though in ancient times t

regarded as a separate hill, the ream i

clear, since it by no means presents ■

features, like the Velia. Here was the I

according to tradition a grotto sacred to I

since the time of the Arcadians (Dioxrys. L1

and near it the Ficus Pi minaijs. or sacred I

under which Komulus and Hernus were i

suckled by the wolf. It is difficult to <

exact spot of the Lupercal. Evandev \

to Aeneas as lying "gelida sub rape" (Vn)

viit 3-13), and Dionysius (L c.) describes kj

the road (kcito tijv S5or) leading to 1

Maximus; and his authority is preferable tot

S'rvius, who describes it as "in Ctrco"*(afJ

viii. 90). Its most probable site tbetrfjrei

western angle of the hill, towards the

situation is in some decree connected with I

the Casa Koxtru. The description of I

Kegio, or Palatine, in the Xotitia begin

RomuH, and proceeding round the base af t

to the X. and K. ends, in coming from the t

with the Lupercal; whence it is plain tbanafjf

Pomuli must have stood a little to the atfl

Plutarch notices the Casa Romaii, which t|fl

called Tuguhum Faustuli, in the t*V4k>«iaganH

'PwfivXos hi (v*e») *af.a rovs *i r)njileeail

Ka\T;s 'Akttjj • qvtoi St «/r; wept i fri mt P^B

Bpofiov tup fiiyav in TlaXavrtov «arai^c*r (M

20). Here the expression KaAi; 'Arra is pun]

as an equivalent name d<«s not occur in anJal

author. Properly arHf Minifies the m

cannot therefore be applied to the t

Tiber; nor, in prose at least, to an

Hence Preller is inclined to think that it ie

Plutarch's awkward translation of the KdnaanJ

for a place called Pulcra Rupes, wuecki

this appellation after the Lupercal had beeai

by Augustus and adorned with architect

rations. (A'eytonea, p. 181.) Bat Pin

surely master of his own language; and Ti

may not have been a very profound

yet as he lived some time in Roane and

himself with studying the history and

the people, we may per ha pa pre has <

knowing the difference between

It seems more probable

