452 NUCEU1A. NUUS.

that it received a fresh accession of veteran sol­

diers as colonists under Xcro. (Tac. Ann. xiii. 31.)

It was not long after this new .settlement that

a violent quarrel broke out between the colonists of

Pompeii and Nuceria, which ended in a .serious tu­

mult, not without bloodshed (hi. xiv. 17). This

is the last mention of Nuceria that we rind in his­

tory under the Etonian Empire; but its name appears

in I he Itineraries, and is incidentally mentioned by

Procopius. The decisive battle between Nurses and

Telas, which put an end to the Gothic monarchy in

Italy, a. i>. 533, was fought in its neighbourhood, on

the banks of the Sarnus, culled by Procopius the

Draco. (Pmcop. B. G. iv. 35.) We learn also that it

was an episcopal see in the early aged of Christianity,

a dignity that it has retained without interruption

down to the present day. Its modern appellation of

Xocera dei Pagani is derived from the circumstance,

that in the 13th century a body of S:iraccns were es­

tablished there by tlte emperor Frederic II. There are

no remains of antiquity at Xocera, except a very old

church, which is supposed to hare been originally an

ancient temple. (Romanelli, vol. iii. p. 602.)

It was at Nuceria that the great line of high-road,

which, quitting the Appian Way at Capua, proceeded

directly S. to Ehegiuin, began to ascend the range of

hills that separate the Bay of Naples from that of

Salerno, or the Posidonian gulf, as it was called by

the ancients. Strabo reckons the distance from Pom­

peii, through Nuceria to Marcina, on the latter bay,

at 120 stadia (15 Homan mile*) (Strab. v. p. 251),

which is less than the truth; Nuceria being, in fact,

7 geographical miles, or 70 stadia, from Pompeii,

and the same distance from the sea near Salerno.

The inscription at PoUa (Forum PopUlii) gives the

distance from theuee to Nuceria at 51 M. 1'.; while it

reckons only 33 from thence to Capua. The Itine­

rary gives ItJ from Nweria to Nola, and 21 from

Noia to C.ip'ia. (Orel). Inscr. 3308; Moiumaeu,

Inter. U. X, G27G; /tin. Ant. p. 109).

COIN OP NOCKRIA IN CAMPANIA.

2. (Xocera), a town of Umbria, situated on the

Flaminian Way. between Forum Flaminii and the

actual pass of the Apennines. It is mentioned by

Strabo as a town of considerable population, owing to

its situation on so frequented a line of road, as well

as to a manufacture of wooden vessels for household

utensils. Pliny designates the inhabitants as " Ntt-

cerini cognomir.e F ivonienses et Camellani,1' but the

origin of both appellations is quite unknown. Pto­

lemy terms it a Colonia. but it is not mentioned as

such by any other writer. If this is not a mistake,

it must have been one of those settled by Trajan or

Hadrian. (Zumpt, dt Colon, p. 41)1.) The modern

city of Xocera, a small place, though an episcopal see

of gre;it antiquity, undoubtedly retains the ane'ent

site. It was situated 12 miles from Forum Flaminii

and 15 from Fulginium (Foligno)* (Strab. v. p. 227;

Plin. iii. 14. s. 19; Ptol. iii. 1. §53; Jtin. Ant.

p. 311 ; I tin. I Her. p. 614.)

3. A town of Cispadaue Gaul, mentioned only by

Ptolemy (iii. I. §46), from whom we learn that it

was situated in the neighbourhood of Kegium Le-

piduin and Mutina; but was not on the linr of the

Via Aemiha. It is probably represented by the tJ-

lage of Lnzzara, near GuagtaUa, on the right taik

of the Po. (Cluver. Ital. p. 281.)

4. A city of Brutthtm, in the neighbourhood a*

Terina, not mentioned by any ancient author, traita)

existence of which is clearly established by itkcosa,

which have the Gre*k inscription NOTKPlNflX

(those of Nuceria Alfatema having uniformly 0«a

legends), and indicate a close connection witb Tola

and Khegium. Its site is marked by tlx medal

town of Nocera, situated on a hill about 4 milafret

the Tyrrhenian sea and the mouth of the rue Si-

vuto. Considerable remains of an ancient city an

still risible there, which have been regarded byae*/1

writers as those of Terina (MiUingen, Ancitht Cass,

p. 25, Xumisniatique de VAnc. Italic, p. 5S\ Uil

not improbable that the NovKpia cited by NriJuass

of Byzantium from Philistus is tlie city in quolis\

though he terms it a city of Tyrrhenian »bka aa*l

in any cose be erroneous. [K. H. B.]

:b»M

[Som

COIN OF NCCEUIA IN nniTTUN.

NUDIONNUM, in the Table, is probably the

place as Noeodunum of the DUbiu • [

dl mm.] [G-H

XU'DIUM (Noo5u»'), a town f.-unded If I

Minyae, in Triphylia in Kits, but which was liestraj

by the Kleians in the time of Herodotus (iv. 14H

* NUITHONES, a German tribe, mentioaaij  
Tacitus (tierm. 40) as inhabiting the Uuik»ef|

Albis (Elbe), to the S\V. of the Lonpobardi. II

in common with other neighbouring tribes w*>aiU

Krtha, that is, the Earth. Jn some edit*a»J

name is written Kurt ones; so that nothing 6ml

ran be said either in regard to the import S^H

name i>r to the exact locality they inhabited. \Jm

NT1US (Noofov 4k€oXoI\ Ptol. iv. 6. § 6:

Latin translation, " Nunii ostia''), a river of faM

Libya, which discharged itself into the sea

of Mauretania Tin si tana. It has been >dsaa

with that which is called in the SLp jjurJ

Hanno, Lixis (At{os, Geog Graoe. Mm pwaj

Miiller), and by ScylaJt of Caryartda (if the pa

text be correct), Xion (Hivr. p. 53"). and by 1

bius (ap. J'liu. v. 1), Cosescs. The Lybtanl

must not be confounded with the Mauretaniaafl

and town of the same name, mentioned \>? 9|

(/. c; romp. Artemidorus, ap Strab. xml fvl

Steph. Ii. s. V. Ai>£; Aifo Hecat. />.

Ptol. iv. 1. §§2, 13; Pomp. Mela, ui. lOt

Plin. v. 1), and which is now represent rd IJ

river called by the Arabs Wady-ei-Kkos. fallsa]

the sea at El-Arhch, where bartli ( \ \ -ir-ierm

pp. 23—25) found ruins of the ancient I ttt*

Lixus of Hanno, or Nuius of Ptolemy, i* the 4

Dra (W'ady-Drti), which the S. declivity 4

Atlas of Morocco sends to the Sa/ujra iu U&.|

river for the greater part of the year uearr/ mM

which Keuou (Esplor. de I'Alg. /Jut. eft 1

vol. viii. pp. 65—76) considers to be a sixlbl

than the Rhine. It tlows at brst fruro N I >.

in N. lat 29° and W. long. 5°, it turns almost«

