316 MEGARA. MEGARA.

Spratt further supposes that he has discovered re­

mains of the ancient causeway. "Between the

}j:im» of the hill on its north side, and the opposite

bank of the dry bed of a former river, there are

three platforms of heavy buildings, one of which

lies immediately at the foot of the hill, another on

the edge of the opposite bank, and the third nearly

central ; and a* the course of that former river-bed

clearly and indisputably passes between them, it is

mare than probable that the bridge of communica­

tion may be recognised in these ruins.* He also

says, " that distinct remains of an ancient mole are

to be seen extending from the south-eastern end of

the hill, and curving to the eastward, so as to have

formed a harbour between the hill and those ruins,"

which is in accordance with the statement of Strabo,

that the port of Nisaca was funned by the promon­

tory of Minoa.

IV. Territory of Megara.

Megaris occupied the greater part of the large

Isthmus, which extends from the foot of Mt. Cithae-

ron to the Acrocorinthus, and which connects North­

ern Greece with the Peloponnesus. The southern

part of this Isthmus, including the Isthmus properly

so called, belonged to Corinth; but the boundaries

of Megaris and Corinth differed at an earlier and a

later period. Originally Megaris extended as far

as Crommyon on the Saronic, and Thermae on the

Corinthian, gulfs, and a pillar was set up near the

Isthmus proper, marking the boundaries between

Peloponnesus and Ionia; but subsequently this pillar

was removed, and the territory of Corinth reached as

far as the Scirunian rocks and the other passes of the

Geraneian mountains. (Strab. ix. pp. 392, 393.)

Towards the N., Megaris was separated from Boeotia

by Mt. Cithaeron, and towards the E. and NE. from

Attica by some high land, which terminates on the

west side of the bay of Eleusis in two summits,

formerly called Kerata or The Horxs (t& K<-

para), and now Kandtli, (Strab. ix. p. 395; Diod.

xiiL 65; Plut. Them, 13.) Here there is an im­

mense deposit of conthiferous limestone, which Pau-

sanias also noticed (i. 44. § 6). The river lapis,

Which flowed into the sea a little to the W. of the

Horns, was the boundary of Megaris and Attica.

[Attica, p. 323, a.] The extreme breadth of

Megaris from Pagae to Nisaea is estimated by

Strabo (viii. p. 334) at 120 stadia; and, according

to the calculation of Clinton, the area of the country

is 143 square miles.

Megaris is a rugged and mountainous country,

and contains no plain, except the one in which its

capital, Megara, was situated. This plain was called

the " White Plain" (to Atvtthv wtiiov, Schol. ml

Ham, Otl v. 333, ed. Mai; Etymol. M. s. v. A«i/-

k6$*o), and is the same as Cuioma (KtpwA/o,

Diod. xi. 79), which produced the Creta Chnolia or

fullers' earth, and which Leake erroneously regards

as a place (Xurthtrn Greece, vol. u. p. 413). The

main range of Alt. Cithaeron runs from W. to E-,

forming the boundary between Boeotia and Attica;

but it is also prolonged southwards along the shores

of the Corinthian gulf, and gradually rises into a

new chain, which stretches across Megaris from

W. to E., parallel to ML Cithaeron. This chain is

highest on the western side, where it attains the

height of 4217 feet (Paris), and gradually sinks

down on the eastern side towards the Saronic gulf.

On its western side it runs out into the promontory

AkuU'Ljucctls {MyiwKayKTos, Aescb. Again,

303, with Schol.), and also into those of Outus

and Hkraeum in the Corinthian territory. [Co-

RiNTiius, p. 685.] On its eastern side the ubud

of Salamis and the surrounding rocks are only a

continuation of this chain. The mountains wen

called Gkiiankia in antiquity (!>?*>*:«, That L

105; Pans. i. 40. § 7), and are said to hare re­

ceived this name because, in the deluee of Dcucahor,

Megarus, the son of Zeua and a Sit nomas armpit,

was led by the cries of cranes {yipavoi) to tike

refuge upon their summit. (Pans. L c) Towards

the south the Geraneian mountains sink down iate

the plain of the Isthmus, while to the south of lb*

Isthmus there rises another chain of mountain

called the Oneian. Strabo (viii. p. 380) cctxfrunda

the Geraneia with the Oneia; and erroneously repre­

sents the latter extending as far as Boeotia and

Cithaeron. His error has misled many modem wri­

ters, who, in consequence, speak of the Geraneia as

a portion of the Oneia. (Curtius, Ptl>fK*uv*M,

vol. i. p. 25.)

The Geraneian mountains are almost, if not en­

tirely, calcareous. They form the true boundary of

Northern Greece, and rise above the Isthmus </

Corinth like a vast wall from sea to sea. Three

roads lead across these mountains into Peloponnesus.

One runs from the western coast of Megaru, aervs

the rocky peninsula of Perakhora, the ancient Pev-

raeum of Corinth, down to the Corinthian gulf. H

was the road by which armies frequently mar bed

from Peloponnesus into Northern Greece, bat in

ordinary intercourse was not much used on accuort

of its length. The second road passes throng b the

centre of the Geraneia, and is called the road of the

great Dervenia from the narrow pass (Turk. Ar*

rent), which leads between two masses of rock,

and where guards were stationed in Turkish times.

According to Gell the (op of this pass was anciruily

fortified with a wall. The same writer says that,

from the top of this pass to Corinth the distance ■•

8 hours 37 minutes, and to Megara 2 hoars 33

minutes. This road is now little used. The third

road, which leads along the eastern coast of Me^sm.

is the shortest way between Megara and Corinth,

and therefore has been the chief line of cotnmuro-

cation between Peloponnesus and Northern Greece

from the earliest times to the present day. This

road, soon after leaving Megara, runs for semml

miles along a narrow ledge or terrace, cut in tfc*

rock half-way up the sides of the cliffs. Oo hi*

right hand the traveller lias the preci|>itotn rork,

while on his left it descends perjendicularry to ib*

sea, which is 600 or 700 feet beneath him. 1h*

road, which is now narrow and impracticable for

carriages, was made wide enough by the enijrr?**

Hadrian for two carriages to pass abreast. Frotn U-e

higher level the road descends to the brink of the wafer

by a most rugged and precipitous path rut bet*«*n

walls of rock. This pass is the celebrated Scincuui

rocks of autfquity, now called Kake-tkaJa, or bsi

ladder (At Z«fip*»W8«* virpat, 'Strab. tx. p. 991;

at 'ZxtprnviUft and al 2*ipolo«T, Polyb. xvi 1*;

ImlfML'voi ajtroi, Eur. UippaL 1208; the rml

itself h XKtpwvls oWt, Herod, viii 71; Seinau*

saxa, Plin. iv. 7. a. 11). According to a Mejrsnsn

tradition, these rocks derived their name from Sei-

ron, a polcmarch of the Mcgarians, who was the

first to make a footpath along tlie rucks (Psaa.

i. 44. § 6); but, according to the more ciaximm tra­

dition, they were so called from the robber S.-ina*.

Near the southern end of the pass, where the raai

