SALANIAXA. SALAWA. 879

i.r» a the annexed plan. The Grecian fleet Was I

i«n Dp in the small bar in front of' the town

i \»:inim, and the Persian Meet opposite to litem

f \m oast of Attica. The battle was witnessed

t \mm from the Attic coast, who bad erected

t bmelf a lofty throne on one of the projecting

•ivuas of Mt. Aegalcos. Colonel Leake has dis-

wti tt ragth all the particulars of the battle,

u Mr. Blakealej has controverted many of his

**\. Uikming (lie authority of Aeschylus in pre-  
T'ttr lo ihat of Herodotus. In opposition to Col.

avb and all preceding authorities, Mr. IJlakesley

iff*e\ that though the hostile fleets occupied

lit afternoon before the battle ttie position dc-'

Bated m the plan annexed, yet that on the morn-

C d tbt battle the Greeks were drawn up across |

t ■■ n entrance of the strait, between tlie 1

fr of SL Barbara and the Attic coast, and that |

f fVrnaorwere in the more open sea to the south,

u the discussion of this question our limits pre- i

a ta uom entering; and we must refer our ■

4a» tor particulars to the essays of those writers

it the clone of this article. There is, how-

i. aoe difficulty which must not be passed orer

i Wtre. Hrrwdotus says (viii. 76) that on the

i i •"•fore the battle, the Persian ships stationed

■t Ceos and Cynosura moved up, and beset the

a* Unit as far as Munychia. The only known

» those names are the island of Ceos, distant

t thiTi 40 geographical miles from Salamis, and

;<- montorr of Cyniaura, immediately N. of the

'T.ralh'jn. and distant more than 60 geogra-

miles from Salamis. Both of those places,

rv<e especially Cynosura, seem to be too distant

• -r the roorement practicable in tlie time

vmL Accordingly many modern scholars apply

ana Ceos and Cynosura to two promontories,

■nithr-rninost and south-easternmost of the island

daraia, and they are so called in Kieperts maps,

there ia do authority whatever for giving those

a to two promontories in the island; and it is

ra from the narrative, as Mr. Grote has ob-

i. that the names of Ceos nod Cynosura must

t to aome points in Attica, not in Salamis.

jrute doom not attempt to indicate the position

w places; bat Mr. B lakes ley maintains that

aad Cynoaura are respectively the well-known

! and cape, and that the real difficulty is occa-

i. cut by their distance, but by the erroneous

. (.ooceired bjr Herodotus of the operations of

«man fleet. (Leake, Demi of Attica, p. 166.

aad Appendix 1L On tie Battle of Salamis;

lary, £aramu on Herodotus, viii. 76, vol. ii.

K aao.; Grate, BisL of Greece, vol. t. p. 171,

: v OF SALAMIS.

_AXIA"NA* » town of the Catlaici Rracarii

kwcaa flttaa. AnL p. 427.) Variously iden-

n»h C*la A"o*Wt J^'fftnenta. and Portela de

m [T. H I).]

APIA (SaAorwia: Eth. XaXar7yos ; S ila pinna:

4 of the moat considerable cities of Apulia,

j on the coaat «* the Adriatic, but separated

from the open sea by an intervening Isgune, or salt­

water lake, which was known in ancient times as the

Salapina PaLUI (Lncan, v. 377: Vib. Seq. p. 26),

and is still called the I ago di Salpi. This lagune haa

now only an artificial outlet to the sea through the

hank of sand which separates them; hut it is pro­

bable that in ancient times its communications wens

more free, as Salapia was certainly a considerable

sea-port and in Strabo'i time served as the port

both of Arpi and Canusium (Strab. vi. p. 284). At

an earlier period it was an independent city, and

apjiarently a place of considerable importance. Tra­

dition ascribed its foundation, as well as that of the

neighbouring cities of Canusium and Arpi, to Dio-

medes (Vitruv. i. 4. § 12); or, according to others,

to a Khodian colony under LI pi as (Id. ib.; Strab. xiv.

p. 654).* There is no trace (4' its having received a

Greek colony in historical times, though, in common

with many other cities of the Daunian Apulians, it

seems to have imbibed n large amount of Hellenic

influence. This was probably derived from the

Tarentines, and did not date from a very early

period.

The name of Salapia is not mentioned in history

till the Second Tunic War. in which it bears a con­

siderable part. It was evidently one of the cities of

Apulia which revolted to Hannibal after the battle

of Cannae (Liv. xxii. 61); and a few years after

we find it still in his possession. It was apparently

a place of strength, on which account he collected

there great magazines of corn, and established his

winter quarters there in B.C. 214. (Id xxiv. 20.)

It remained in his hands after the fall of Arpi in the

following year (Id. xxiv. 47); but in ii. c. 210 it

wus betrayed into the power of Marcellus by Blasius,

one of its citizens, who had been for some time the

leader of the Koman party in the place, and the

Nuiuidian (puritan was put tit the sword. (Id. xxvi.

88; AppiaD, Annib. 45—47.) Its loss seems to have

been a great blow to the power of Hannibal in this

part of Italy; and after the death of Marcellus, n.c.

208, he made an attempt to recover possession of it

by stratagem ; but the fraud was discovered,and the

Carthaginian troops were repulsed with loam. (Liv.

xxvii. 1, 28; Appian, A nnib. 51.) No subsequent

mention ot it is found till the Social War, in tho

second year of which, when the tide of fortune was

beginning to turn in favour of Koine, it was taken

by the Roman praetor C. Cosconius, and burnt to

the ground (Appian, U. C. i. 51). After Una time

it appears to have fallen into a state of decay, and

suffered severely from malaria in consequence of the

exhalations of the neighbouring lagune. Vitrnvius

tells us, that at length the inhabitants applied to

M. Hostilius, who caused them to remove to a more

healthy situation, about 4 miles from the former site,

and nearer the sea, while he at the same time o|*ned

fresh communications between the lagune and the sea

(Vitruv. i. 4. § 12). We have no clue to the time

at which this change took place, but it could hardly

have Wen till after the town had fallen into a de­

clining condition. Cicero, indeed, alludes to Salapia

as in his day notorious for its pestilential climate

{de Leg. Agr. ii. 27); hut this may be understood

as relating to its territory rather than the actnal

town. Vitruvius is the only author who notices the

change of site; but if his account can be depended

* Lycophron, on the other hand, seems to assign  
it a Trojan origin; though the passage, as usual, is

somewhat obscure. (Lycoplir. Alex. 1129.)

