378 MUTINA. MUTINA.

possession shortly after, at the commencement of the

Second Punic War, B.c. 218. At that period

Mutina must have already been a considerable place

and well fortified; as we are told that, when the

sudden outbreak of the Oauls interrupted the po-

ceedings of the triumvirs who were appointed to

found the new colony of Placentia, and compelled

them to fly for safety, they took refuge within the

walls of Mutina, which afforded them an effectual

protection against the arms nf the barbarians. (Liv.

xxi. 25, 26, xavii. 21; Pol. iii. 40.) Polybius

calls it at this period a Roman colony; but it seems

probable that this is a mistake; for we have no ac­

count of its foundation as such, nor does Livyever

allude to Mutina as a colony, where he expressly

notices those of Cremona and Placentia (xxvii. 10).

L*ut whether it had been fortified by the Romans, or

was a regular walled city previously existing (in

which case it must have been, like its neighbour

Bononia, of Etruscan origin), we have no means of

determining, though the latter supposition is per­

haps the more probable. In any case it continued

to be held by the Romans not only during the Second

Tunic War, but throughout the long wars which

Followed with the Cisalpine Gauls and Ligurians.

(Lit. xxxv. 4, 6.) It was not till after the final de­

feat of the Boians in n.c. 191, <>n which occasion

they were deprived of a large portion of their hinds,

that tiie Romans determined to secure the newly

acquired territory, by planting there the two colonies

of Parma ami Mutina, which were accordingly es­

tablished in b.c. 183. (Liv. xxxix. 55.) They

were both of them ucoloniae cirium so that their

inhabitants from the first enjoyed the full rights of

Roman citizens: 2000 settlers were planted in each,

and these received 5 jugera each for their portion.

(Liv. I. c.) The construction of the great military

high road of the Via Aemilia a few years before,

B.C. 187 (Liv. xxxix. 2), must have greatly facili­

tated the foundation of these new colonics, and

became the chief source of their prosperity.

lint shortly after its foundation Mutina sustained

n severe disaster. The Ligurians, who still oc­

cupied the heights and'valleys of the Apennines bor­

dering on the lioian territory, in n.c. 177 made a

sudden descent upon the new colony, and not only

ravaged its territory, but actually made themselves

masters of the town itself. This was, however, re*

covered with little difficulty by the consul C. Clau­

dius, 8000 of the Ligurinns were put to the sword,

and the colonists re-established in the ptssession of

Mutina. (Liv. xli. 14. 16.) For a considerable

period after this, we do not again meet witli its

name in history; but it appears that it must have

risen rapidly to prosperity, and become one of the

most flourishing of the towns along the line of the

Via Aemilia. Hence it bears a conspicuous part in

the Civil Wars. When Lepidus, after the death of

Sulla, n.c. 78, raised an insurrection in Cisalpine

Gaul against the senate. Mutina was almost the

only place which w;ls able to offer any resistance to

the arms of Pumpeius, and was held against him by

Brutus for a considerable period. (Tint. Pomp,

10.) lint it was the siege which it sustained, and

the battles fought in its neighbourhood after the

death of Caesar, n.c. 44, that have rendered the

name of Mutina chiefly celebrated in history, and

arc referred to by Suetonius under the name of

u It el him Mutinense." (Suet. Aug. 9.) On that

occasion I), llrutus, to whom the province of Cisal­

pine Caul had been decreed by the senate, threw

'himself into Mutina with three legions and liar*

I body of auxiliary troops. Here lie was bfjtertd kj

M. Antonins with a numerous army; but the ttute

having declared against the latter, the two etftia,

Hirtins and Pansa, as well as tite young Oclaviss,

were despatched to the relief and succuorof Bratm

(Jan. B.C. 4.').) Antouius at thin lime occapM

Bononia, as well as Parma and Regium, with ail

garrisons, while he himself, with the bulk of I

forces, maintained the siege, or rather sImMI st

Mutina. Hirtius on his arrival seized on Cbtas^

while Octavian occupied Korum Cornelii (/•***^

From thence they advanced after considerable is>

lays, took possession of ltononia, and api^acW

Mutina itself, but were unable to oj<en cciumiuics*

tions with Brutus. Meanwhile the other tanaal

C. Pans*, was advancing with a force of 4 newjj

rai.-ed legions to their support, when he wisifr

tacked by Antouius, at a place cnllrd Fvram GsV

lorum, about 8 miles from Mutina on the roadl

Bononia. [Forum Gallobum.] A severe ea>

test ensued, in which Pansa was mortally woonaai

hut the other consul. Hirtius, having fallen ou Aa

tony's army in the rear, completely defeat*! it, Si

compelled him to retire to his camp before Matins, i

second battle took place some days afterwaaj

(April 27, ii. c. 4.'!)- under the walls of that cir/,1

which Hirtius was slain; but the forces ot Antasii

were acain worsted, and that general found hiam

compelled to abandon the siege (which had a*

lasted for above four months), and retire westwi

with a view of crossing the Alps. (Appian, B.i

iii. 49—51, 61, 65—72; Dion Cass. sjvi. 3i-i

Cic. «</ Fam, x. 11, 14, 30, S3,

Veil Pat. ii. 61; Suet. Aug. 10.)

Mutina was evidently at this period m flcuraht

and important town, as well as fctronjly fortiM

Cicero calls it "firmissima et splendidiseima pi

Romani colonia" (I*hil. v. 9); and these prauat

confirmed by Appian (Z>. C. iii. 49), who est

"a wealthy city," as well as by the fact, that

capable of supporting so large an army as tfcl

Brutus for so long a time. Mela, also, nnglsi

Mutina, together with Bononia and Patanam,a

most opulent cities in this part of Italy. (Mela,]

§ 2.) The same inference may fairly be 4

from the circumstance, that it was at Mats*

numerous body of senators who had accomai

the emperor Ot ho from Rome, in a. u. 69, Ten*

while Otho himself advanced to meet the gaaas

Vitelline, and where they very nearly fell rienji

the animosity of the soldiery, on the first new**

defeat and death. ('I'ac. Ili*t. ii. 52 — 54.)

with this exception, we meet with scarcdy

mention of Motion under the Roman empire

a late period, though the still extant inscri)

attest the fact of its continued prosperity,

of these give to the city the title of Cokoi

do aKoM.li and'Pliny. (Mela, /. c..; Pfcn. i

s. 20; Cavcdoni, Mar mi Modmesi, pp. 120,!

We learn also from Pliny and Strabo, that i

famous for the excellence of the wool prodM

its territory, as well as for its wine, SBkJ

city itself possessed considerable manofart*

earthenware, as well as woollen goods, (Mr

p. 218; Plin. xiv.3. s. 4, xxxv. IS. a. 46; O

vii. 2. § 3.)

In a. i>. 312, Mutina was taken by Const]

during his war with Maxentius, but appear* fen

I suffered but little on this occasion. (Xaxar. f

27.) before the close uf the century, buwerer*

