502 OSTrA, OSTIA.

port.mt was the trade or Ostla become, especially on

account of the supplies of corn which it furnished to

the capital, that it was made the phut- of residence of

one of the four quaestors of Italy, and gave name to

one of the '* provineiae quaestoriac" into wliieh that

country was divided. (Cie. pro Murvn. 8. pro S?st.

17 ; Suet. CUtwL 24.) But the increasing com­

merce of Ostia rendered its natural disadvantages

:ts a (H>rt only the more sensible; and there can he

lit lie doubt that those disadvantages were them­

selves continually increasing. It had been origin­

ally founded, as we are expres>ly told, close to the

niouth of the Tiber, frum which it is now distant

above three miles; and the process of alluvial <1c]h>-

hition, which has wrought this change, Las been

undoubtedly going on throughout the intervening

perh>d. Hence Nt,-abo describes in strong terms the

disadvantages of Ostia in his day, and calls it "a

city without a port, on account of the alluvial depo­

sits continually brought down by the Tiber, which

compelled the larger class of vessels to ride at

anchor in the open roadstead at great risk, while

their cargoes were unloaded into boats or barges, by

which they were carried up the river to Home.

Oilier vessels were themselves towed up the Tiber,

after they had been lightened by discharging a part

of their cargoes.'' (Strab. v. pp. 231, 'I'.S'l.) Diony-

sius gives a more favourable view, but which does

not substantially differ from the preceding account.

(Oionys. iii. 44.) These evils had already attracted

the attention of the dictator Caesar, and among the

projects ascribed to him, was one for forming an

artificial port or basin at Ostia (Pint. Cues, 58):

but this was neglected by his successors, until the

increasing difficulty of supplying Rome fill rfl

compelled Claudius to undertake the work.

That emperor, instead of attemptin; \n rfetai

and restore the original ]*irt of o>t.a at '■'< -

of the Tiber, determined on the coostnwti* tf ■

entirely new basin, which was eicaiat* I in! tta

shore about two miles to the N. of < >sUa, ui I -

was made to communicate with the r'.*rr i\ u Jfl

ficial cut or canal. This port was p'trrtwi fl

enlarged by two moles projecting out into tbe m,

as to enclose an extensive space, while in the riffl

bctw.cn them a breakwater or irUDcia tlafldi

thrown tip, crowned by a lighthouse. (IVcCi

lx. 11; Suet. Claud. 20; Plin. ii. o, ivi. 40 :.'

■ fuv. xii. 75—81 ) This great work was called I

I'ortus At'ousn, on which account i:.- umrtria

or at least commencement, is by wei* »n:m

ferred to ihe emj*ror Augustus ; but the e u

tliority for this; and Dion Ca^ius uistiixlij w

the commencement as well as cuinjleti'ja • I

Claudius. Nero, however. appears to bare f*

finishing hand to the work, and id rnwqi

struck coins on which he claims i: fur hia i

(Kckhel, vol. vi. p. 276.) After this il "«

siderably augmented by Trajan, who »a'

basin or dock, of a hexa^onul form, sumxaai

-juays and extensive ranges of buildings ■  
zmes and storehouses. This port was cai-ei^

TtHiTLs Tkajasi; and hence we attenwris ■

inscriptions with the "I'ortus Aucusti et Tiq

and sometimes " I'ortus utenjue"' in the

(.Juv. /.<*., et Schol. ad loc.; Gruter./&*>t. »

10, p. 440.3.) At the same time be euia^

repaired the artificial channel of cummankaiw

