STOBORRUM PROM. STRATONICEIA. 1037

i n imperfectly known that there is a difficulty in

^fKifying its site: in Kiepcrt's map (Europalsche

r%ria) the rains of Stobi are marked to the W. of

'rvurkapi, or the pass of the " Iron Gate." (Leake,

Ferricm Greet, vol. iii. pp. 306,440.) [E. B. J.]

STOBORRUM PROM. (Sro*V/W tutpov, Ptol.

t. 3. § 5), a headland of Numidia, between the

ranaotcrr of Hippos and the town of Aphrodisinm,

i the E. point of the Sinos Olchacites. Now Cap

'moot Rat Hadid. [T. H. D.]

STOE'CHADES (ai Si-oixdifr r!)<roi) or STI-

HADES, on the S. coast of Gallia. Strain (ir. p.

H) *peaks of the Stoechades islands lying off the

v: of Narbonen^ five in number, threo larger

two mailer. They were occupied by the Massa-

4k Strph. B. (». v. jrotx«U«s) says, " inlands near

tasalia; and they are also named Ligystides." Pto-

m (u. 10. § 21) also mentions five islands Stoe-

bJes, which he places in tho meridian of the

I'.haristes Promontorium [ClTiiAniSTEs].

i'hny(iii. 5) mentions only three Stoechades, which

■ mts were so named from being in a line

r»wr»t), and he gives to them the Greek names

»l*rtively Prote, Mese or Pomponiana, and Hy-

ri Tnese must bo the islands now named Islet

'Biera, of which the most westerly is Porquerotet,

• central is Portcroz, and the most easterly is

tat dm Levant or du Titan, opposite to the town of

Tom, in the department of Far. These islands

» mere barren rocks. Besides the three larger

haU, which have be*>n enumerated, there arc two

lim at least, mere rocks, VEsquillade and Bagneau,

make np the number of five. Coral was got

i the tea about the Stoechades (Plin. xxxii. 3), and

•nil IT* on this part uf the French coast.

A;i!hemerus(Gfeoj. Alin. ii. p. 13, ed. Hudson)

wtt the Stoechades along the coast which was

Tcpini by the settlements of the Massaliots; but

> $xes the two small Stoechades near Massilia.

■■H are the two dismal rocks named Jiatoneau

si Pumegve which are seen as soon as yon get out

tte port of Marseille, with some still smaller

eii near them [Massilia, p. 292], one of which

•tains the small fort named Chateau d~lf.

The Stoechades still belonged to the Massaliots in

•r.tiu' time (Hist, iii. 43). The Romans who

et exiled from Rome sometimes went to Massi-

i as L. Scipio Asiaticus did; if he did not go to

» .Stoechades as the Scholiast says (Cic. pro Sett.

J); but the Roman must have found the Stoe-

sdw a dull place to live in. When Lucan (iii.

It) bays" Store had os arva/he uses a poetic license;

d Vuiiianus (xv. 11) as usual in his geography

«aJer» when he places the Stoechades about Ni-

« and Antipolis (Sizza, Antibei). [G. L.]

tTOEDX [Eraim]

STOMA, AO, a pluce in Mnesia on the Southem-

i»t arm of the Danube. (Tab. Peut.; Geogr. Rav.

• i) Manoert (vii. p. 123) places it by the

•LmZof. [T.H.D.]

STOMAL1MNE. [Fossa Mariana.]

STKADELA, a town of Palestine mentioned only

the Iuoeraritun Hierosolyinitanum as x. M.P. from

•ximianopolia, ami xii. M.P. from Sciopolis (i. e.

7'lnpilis), and identified by tho writer with the

ace where Ahab abode and Elias prophesied, and

-oi a strange confusion—where David slew Goliath  
^ i*6, ed. Wesseling). The name is undoubtedly

"irruption of Esdraelo, tho classical form of the

»i?tnral Jezreel. [Esdraf.i.a.] [G. W.]

fcfRA'GONA (2i ocryoW), a town in tho south­

eastern part of Germany, cither in the country of

the Silingac or in that of the Didnni, on the nor­

thern slope of Mons Ascibnrgius. (Ptol. ii. 11. § 28.)

If the resemblance of names be a safe guide, we

might identify it with Strigau, though this hardly

agrees with tho degrees in which it is placed by

Ptolemy; whence others suppose it to have been

situated at Strehlen, between Schtceidniiz and

Brieq. [L. S.]

STRAPELLUM. [Apulia, p. 167.]

STRATI A. [Enispk.]

STRATONI'CE (STparoi-firn, Ptol. iii. 13. § 11),

a town of Chalcidice in Macedonia, which Ptolemy

places on the Singitic gulf. Leake (Northern Greece,

vol. iii. p. 160) considers that there is here the same

mistake as in the case of Acanthus [Acanthus] , and

refers it to the Hellenic remains on the coast of the Stry-

monic gulf in the confined valley of StraUmi. [E.li.J.]

STRATONICEIA (StootoWmki or 2tdotok(k>),

Ptol. v. 2. § 20: Eth. ^.TparoviKtvs'), one of tho

most important towns in the interior of Cariu, was

situated on the south-east of Mylasa, and on the

south of the river Marsyas. It appears to have

been founded by Antiochus Sotcr, who named it

after his wife Stratonice. (Strab. xiv. p. 660 j

Steph. B. *. t>.) The subsequent Syro-Macedonian

kings adorned the town with splendid and costly

buildings. At a later time it was ceiled to

the Rhodians. (Liv. xxxiii. 18,30.) Mithridates

of Pontus resided for some time at Stratoniceia,

and married tho daughter of one of its principal

citizens. (Appian, Mithr. 20.) Some time after

this it was besieged by Labienus, and the brave re­

sistance it offered to him entitled it to the gratitude

of Augustus and the Senate (Tac Ann. iii. 62;

Dion Cass, xlviii. 26). The emperor Hadrian is

said to have taken this town under his special pro­

tection, and to have changed its name into Hadriano-

polis (Steph. B. /. c), a name, however, which

does not appear to have ever come into use. Pliny

(v. 29) enumerates it among free cities in Asia.

Near the town was the temple of Zens Chrysaoreus,

at which the confederate towns of Caria held their

meetings; at these meetings the several states

had votes in proportion to the number of towns

they possessed. The Stratoniceans, though not of

Carian origin, were admitted into the confederacy,

because they possessed certain small towns or

villages, which formed part of it. Mcnippus, sur-

named Catochas, according to Cicero (Brut. 91)

one of the most distinguished orators of his time,

was a native of Stratoniceia. Stephanua B. (t e>.

'ISptdr) mentions a town of Idrias in Caria, which

had previously been called Chrysaoris; and as

Herodotns (v. 118) makes the river Marsyas, on

whose banks stood tho white pillars at which the

Carians held their national meetings, flow from a

district called Idrias, it is very probable that

Antiochus Soter built the new city of Stratoniceia

upon the site of Idrias. (Leake, Atia Minor, p.

235.) Etkihittar, which now occupies the place of

Stratoniceia, is only a small rillago, the whole neigh­

bourhood of which is strewed with marble fragments,

while some shafts of columns are standing single.

In the side of a hill is a theatre, with the seats re­

maining, and ruins of the proscenium, among which

are pedestals of statues, some of which contain

inscriptions. Outside the villago there are broken

arches, with pieces of massive wall and marble

coffins. (Chandler, Traeelt in Asia Minor, p. 240;

Leake, Asia Minor, p. 229; Fellows, Alia Minor,

