THESSALONICA.

1173 THESSALONICA.

■16 Odyssey, and of theological works, which have

*n recently published by Tafel. A list of tie  
*;in archbishops of Thessalonica fmm 1205 to  
419, when a Koman hierarchy was established along

Ha Western feudalism, is given by Le Quien

(hiem Chrigtiamu, ni. 1089). Even to the last

1 dot tide city connected with question:) of reii-

uu interest. Symeon of Thessalonica, wbo is a

tief latiiority in the modern Greek Church on

:iul subject*, died a few months before the fatal

r-;r uf 1430; and Theodore Gaza, who went to

aJy torn a;: •■; this siege, and, as a Latin ecclesiastic,

uint the translator of Aristotle, Theophraslus,

d Hippocrates, was a native of the city of Deuie-

m and Eitotathius.

i. Remains of AjiTiQLiTT. — The two monu-

»U of greatest interest at Thessalonica are two

tin cuonected with the line of the Via Egnatia.

a» course of this Koman road is undoubtedly pre-

rvad in the long street which intersects the city

"ii east to west. At its western extremity is the

nLr gale, which is nearly in the line of t he modern

di, mi which has received its present name fmm

r dmunatance of its leading to the river Varddr

Alius. This is the Koman arch believed by

aujoor, Holland, and others to have been erected

u.v peuple of Thessalonica in honour of (X tavius

i Anionius, and io memory of the battle of

idippi. The arch is constructed of large blocks

.' V, and is about 12 feet wide and 18 ieet high;

1 s tutisiderable portion of it is buried deep below

furface of the ground. On the outside face are

» b'ts-reiiefa of a Koman wearing the toga and

uling before a horse. On this arch is the abovc-

suorwd inscription containing the names of the

itarrJu of the city. Leake thinks from the style

Lie Mrulpture, and Tafel from the occurrence of the

Futius in the inscription, that a later date

rat in be assigned to the arch. (A drawing of it

;i<n by CouaineYy). The oilier arch is near the

irro (said in Clarke's Travels, iv. p. 359, by

lake, to be near li e western) extremity of the

lb street. (A drawing of this arch also is given

Cvuaine'ry and an imaginary restoration by Po­

ke.) It is built of brick and faced with marble,

erly consisted of three arch ways. The

i^tuml camels give an oriental aspect to the

.ument; and it is generally supposed to coni-

.-.i.Tat< tlie vic.ory of Cons tan tine over Licinius

■i-t the Sannatians.

tear the hue of the main street, between the two

0- ioeotj arches are four Corinthian columns

furting an architrave, above which are Carya-

x TbU monumeut is now part of the liou.se of

r*; and, from a notion thai the figures were

ified by magic, it is called by the Spanish Jews

/%CB3ssodfi*. The Turks call it Suretk-MaUh.

tut will be found in Con 1 .1 a more correct

with architectural details, in Stuart and Kevett's

u Antisj. vol, iii. ch. 9. p. 53). This colonnade

fined by some to have been part of the Pro-

sa> uf the Hippodrome, the position of which is

rred by Beaujour and Clarke to have been in

•noth-eastern part of the town, between the sea

a, building called the Rotunda, now a mosque,

1- jualj tiie church E*ii-Metropolis but t'or-

ii a temple, and in construction similar to the

:b*oa at Rome. (Pococke has a ground plan

Jom building.) Another mosque iu Thessa-

a, called Eski-Djuma, is said by bean jour to

a temple consecrated to Venus Thermaea.

The city walls are of brick, and of Greek construc­

tion, resting on a much older foundation, which

consists of hewn stones of immense thickness.

Everywhere are broken columns and fragments of

sculpture. Many remains were taken in 1430 to

Constantinople. One of the towers in the city wall

is called the Tower of the Statue, because it contains

a colossal figure of Thessalonica, with the repre­

sentation of a ship at its feet. The castle is partly

Greek and partly Venetian. Some columns of verd

antique, supposed to be relics of a temple of Hercules,

are to be noticed there, and also a shattered tri­

umphal arch, erected (as an inscription proves) in

the reign of Marcus Aurelius. in honour of Antoninus

Pius and his daughter Faustina.

In harmony with what has been noticed of its

history, Thessalonica has many remains of eccle­

siastical antiquity. Leake says that in this respct

it surpasses any other city in Greece. The church

of greatest interest (now a mosque) is that of St.

Sophia, built, according to tradition, like the church

of the same name at Constantinople, in the reign of

Justinian, and after the designs of the architect

Anthemius. This church is often mentioned in tho

records of the Middle Ages, as in the letters of Po|«

Innocent III. and in the account of the Norman

siege. It remains very entire, and is fully described

by Beaujour and Leake. Tho clmrch of St. De­

metrius (apparently the third on the same site, and

now also a mosque) is a structure of still greater size

and beauty. Tafel believes that it was erected about

the end of the seventh century ; but Leake con­

jectures, from its architectural features, that it was

built by the Latins iu the thirteenth. Tafel has

collected with much diligence the notices of a great

number of churches which have existed in Thessa­

lonica. Dapper says, that in his day the Greeks

had the use of thirty churches. Walpole (iu Clarke's

Travels^ iv. p. 349) gives the number as sixteen.

All travellers have noticed two ancient pulpits, con­

sisting of "single Mocks of variegated marble, with

small steps cut in lhem," which are among the most

interesting ecclesiastical lemains of Thessalonica.

6. Authorities. — The travellers who have

described Thessalonica are numerous. The most

important are Paul Lucas, Second Voyage, 1705;

Pococke, DetcriptUm of the East, 1743 — 1745;

Beaujour, Tableau du Commerce de la Crice, trans-

j lated into English, 1800 ; Clarke, TrareU in Eu­

rope, gY. 1810—1823; Holland, Travel* in the

Ionian Isle* 1815; CousineYy, Voyage dans la,

Mace'doine. 1831; Leake, Northern Greece, 1835;

Zacharia, Heise in tlen Orient, 1840; G rise bach,

h'eise durch Jiumelien, 1841; Bowen, Mount Athvsy

Thessaly, and Epint*, 1852.

In the Me moire* de IWcademie de* Inscrip­

tion*, torn, xxxviii. Sect. hist. pp. 121 —146, is

an essay on the subject of Thessalonica by tho

Abbe' ltelley; but the most elaborate work 011

1 he subject is that by Tafel, the first |«art of which

was published at Tubingen in 1835. This was

CUIS OF TIlESbALOMCA.

4 ¥ 3

