.VI INDIA. INDIA.

Ganges, commencing with Taxila near the Indus,

or Ijthort on that river, and panning thence to

Palilxtthrx. This was called the Knyal Knad. It

U remarkable that the Ramayana describes a road

from Ayodhiya ((>«&), over the Ganges and the

.Jumna, to Hasthiapura'■ and Lahore, wliirh must bo

nearly identical with that mentioned in the Greek

geographer*. The commerce, which appears to hare

existed between the interior of Asia, India, and the

land of the Sinae and Serica, is very remarkable.

It is stated that from Thina (the capital of the

Sinae) fine cottons and silk were sent on font to

Bactra. and thence down the Ganges to Limyrica,

(Peripl. p. 36.) The IVriphis speaks of a sort of

annual fair which was held within the territory of

the Thinae, to which mnlahathron (betel) was im­

ported from India. It is not easy to make out

wherealtouts Thina itself was situated, and none of

the rri'.ideni attempts at identification appear to us

at all satisfactory: it is clearly, however, a northern

town, in the direction of Ladakh in Thibet, and not,

as Ptolemy placed it, at Sf alarm in Tena.*$erim, or,

as Vincent (Voyage- of Xearchus, vol. ii. p. 735)

conjectured, at Arraoan. It is curious that silk

should be so constantly mentioned as an article of

import from other countries, especially Serica, as

there is every reason to suppose that it was indigenous

in India; the name for silk throughout the whole of

the Indian Archipelago being the Sanscrit word

Mrro. (Colebmoke, Asiat. Rf*. vol. v. p. 61.)

It is impossible to give in this work nny de­

tails as to the knowledge of ancient India ex­

hibited in the remains of native poems or histories.

The whole of this subject has been examined with

great ability by I-A*sen in his Irulische Altertfiumjt-

htnde; and to his pages, to which wc are indebted

for mast of the Sanscrit names which we hare from

time to time inserted, we must refer our readers.

From the careful comparison which has been made

by La*M*n and other orientalist* (among whom Pott

deserves especial mention) of the Indian names pre­

served by the Greek writers, a great amount of

evidence lias been adduced in favour of the general

faithfulness of those who recorded what they saw or

heard. In many instances, as may be seen by the

names we have already quoted, the Greek writers

have been content with a simple adaptation of the

sounds which they beard to those best suited for

their own pronunciation. When we consider the

tturbamus words which have come to Europe in

Hi'-nlern times as the European representations of the

names of places and peoples existing at the present

time, wc have reason to be surprised at the accuracy

with which Greek ears appreciated, and the Greek

language preserved, names which must have ap­

peared to Greeks far more barbarous than they would

have seemed to the modern conquerors of the country.

The attention of modern scholars has detected many

words of genuine Indian origin in a Greek dress;

and an able essay by Prof. Tychsen on such words

in the fragments of Cteaias will repay the perusal of

those who are interested in such subjects. (Sec

Heeren, Asiatic Nations, vol ii. Append. 4, ed.

Lond. 1846.)

The generic name of the inhabitants of the whole

country to the E. of Persia and S. of the 1/im.ilaya

mountains (with the exception of the Seres) was, in

ancient times, IifDl (Iroof), or Indians. It is true

that the appellation referred to a much wider or much

h**s extensive range of co'intry, at different periods

of history. There can, however, be no doubt, that

when the ancient writers speak of the Iwn?. titer

menn the inhabitants of a vast territory in the SE.

part of Asia. The extension of the meaning of the

name depended on the extension of the knowledj^e of

India, and may be traced, though less completely, in

the same manner as we have traced the gradual pro­

gress of knowledge relative to the land itself. The

Indi are mentioned in more than one of the fragments

of HecaUcus (HecaU Fragm. 17"), 178), and are

stated by Aeschylus to have been a jeople in the

neighbourhood of the Aethiopians, who made uw of

camels. (Suppl, 284—287.) Herodotus is the first

ancient author who may be said to give any real

description of them; and he is led to refer to them,

only because a portion of this country, which ad­

joined the territory of Dareius, was included in on*

of the satrapies of his vast empire, and, therefore,

paid him tribute. Some part of his narrative (iii.

94—106, iv. 44, vii. 65) may be doubted, as clearly

from hearsay evidence; some is certainly fabulous.

The sum of it is, that the Indians were the m<**t

populous and richest nation which he knew of (iii.

94), and that they consisted of many different tribes,

speaking different languages. Some of them, he

states, dwelt in the immediate neighbourhood of the

Aethiopians, and were, like them, black in colour

(iii. 98, 101); some, in the marches ami desert

land still further K. The manners of these tribe*,

whom he calls Padaei, and Callaliae or Calantiae,

were in the lowest grade of civilisation,—a wandering

race, living on raw flesh and raw fish, and of can­

nibal habits (Cf. Strnb. xv. p. 710, from which

Munnert, v. I, p. 3, infers that the Padaei were not

after all genuine Indians, but Titan.) Others (ami

these were the most warlike) occupied the ntore

northern districts in the neighbourhood of Caspatyrua

(Cashmir) in the Itegio Pactyict. Herodotus places

that part of India which was subject to Dareius in

the 20th patrapy, and Mates that the annual tribute

from it amounted to 360 talents (iii. 94). Xen«>ph"ti

speaks of the Indians as a great nation, and one

worthy of alli.mce with Cvaxares and the Mcdes (i. 5.

§ 3, iii. 2. § 25, vi. 2. § 1 ), though he does not njn-it'y

to what part of India he refers. That, however, it

was nearly the frame as that which Herodutus de­

scribes, no one can doubt.

From the writers subsequent to Alexander, tl.f*

following particulars relative to the people and tlirir

manners may be gathered. Tlie ancients considered

that they were divided into M-v.n caste*:—1. 7Vir#f»,

the royal counsel lorn, and nearly connected with,if not

the same as, the Bpaxf*aefi or Itrahmiiu. (Strab,

xv. pp. 712—716; Arrian, Jnd. 11.) With the*«

Stralm (/. c.) makes another class, whom lie calls

rapfinvts. These, as Grossknrd (iii. p. 153) has

suggested, would seem, from the description of thrir

habits, to have been fakirs, or penitents, and the

same aa the GymnosophiMae so often mentioned by

Strabo and Arrian. This caste was exempted frotn

taxes and service in war. 2. Iftubaadmrn, who

were free from war-service. They were the rm»t

numerous of the seven caste*. (Strab. xv. p. 704 )

The land itself was held to belong to the king, who

farmed it out, leaving to tin cultivator one-fourth

of the produce as his share. 3. I/unttr* ami sJtep-

Aerds, who lead a wandering life, their office bring

to rear rattle and beasts of burden: the horse ami

the elephant were held to be fur the kings *n!y.

(Strab. /. c) 4. Artiaama and hanth'crnflsntm, of

all kinds. (Strab. xv. p. 707.) 5. U'nrrtW'.

(Strab. L r.) 6. J'vitticttt ojfkrrs (ffofot, Mm1,

