ROMA. 7S!> ROMA.

frjuiu ad aciinst the wall of the Tabnlarium, t

nth i bindsceie though now ruined portico before 1

'icii, fram which there was an entrance into each

rfanti dumber. From tho fragments of the <

mum in inscription conld still he deciphered

. :«!.* dedicated to the twelve Dei Consented. )

Idem, Fan Htm. p. 207, Bullet, d. Inst. 1835.)

Hbiiiacoferr tallies remarkably with the following i

iis-t^ in Vsrro: "Et quoniam (ut aiunt) Dei i

v..(to adjuvant, prius invocabo eos; nec nt ]

■ r mi et Lnnitu, Musas, sed xn. deos consentis; t

k<.v taiwn eta urbtnos, quorum imagine* ad Jorum 1

itata\ gex marts et feininae totidem, sed i

*h ill deos, qui maxime agricolarum daces sunt" i  
»lt Hi 1) We may, however, infer that the in- I

wvoJui wai pvterior to the time of Varro, pro-

ail; Jta some restoration of the building; since in

inl*Lmgm Latino (viii. § 71) he asks: "Item t

juamun, li tit analogia. cur appellant omnes acdes j

/tssi Gauentam et non Deorum Consentium?" i

tvrau in the inscription in question we find it 1

wren "Consentiom." We may farther remark i

uat the Jonner of these jiassages would sanction

js mdudiag of the whole Clivus Capitolinus under ■

It tfpulauon of " forum."

Ban nupert to the Jani on the forum, it seems

rrobleTuatical whether there were three of

aau. There appear to have been two Jani before

*• Jbuhca Paulli, to which the money-lenders  
btW newted. (Schol. ad Uor. Ep. i. 1. 54.) But

ranBoiot (Sot u 3.18) says —

"— postqoam omnia res mea Janum

Ai medium fracta est,"

'r'tiMy means, as we said before, the middle

'tie stmt, and not a Janus which lay between

>««bn, as Becker thinks must necessarily follow

• -. tb use of the word mediae. (Uandb. p. 327,

«»■)

Ferwm under the Empire. — The import-

B alterations made by Julius Caesar in the dis­

mal of the forum were the foundation of its

■»i»wt appearance under the Empire. These

■fw wire not mere caprices, but adaptations

n* t> the altered state of political society and

Canara own political views. But the dagger

'-• aansKB terminated his life before they could

'arrH oat, and most of them were left to be

by his successor Augustus. One of the

Tpwtaot of these designs of Caesar's was the

*uo? af a new curia or senate-house, which was  
■at ha Dame. Such a building would be the

1* 4 the senate's servitude and the symbol of

despotic power. The former senate-house

I »■ erected by one of the kings; the new one

■* b the gift of the first of the emperors. We

"Mtiuned the destruction of the old curia by

1 * t!a time of Sulla, and the rebuilding of it by

n Fsutu; which structure Caesar caused to

?»W down under a pretence, never executed, of

Bar. an its site a temple of Fellcitas.

IW, curia founded by Pompey near his theatre in

Qini-u Manius—the building in which Caesar

i ifeucnated — seems to have been that com-

"?aa«e; and Ovid (Met. xv. 801), in describing

I mat, calls it simply Curia:—

'neque enim locus nllus in urbe

U licicbi luramque placet, nisi Curia, caedem."

tit tstpoat that when Caesar attained to

no Barer be was not well pleased to see the

meetings of the senate held in a building dedicated

by his great rival.

A new curia was voted a little before Caesar's

death, but he did not live to found it; and the

Monumentum Ancyranum shows that it was both

begun and completed by Octavianus.

Respecting the site of the CtiKIA Julia the most

discordant opinions have prevailed. Yet if we ac­

cept the information of two writers who could not

have been mistaken on such a subject, its position is

not difficult to find. We learn from Pliny that it

was erected on the comitium: "Idem (Augustus)

in Curia quoque quam in Comitio consecrabat,

dnas tabulas imprcssit parieti" (xxxv. 10); and

this site is confirmed by Dion Cassius: to £ou-

Kturiipiov to 'louAior, Aw' airou K\i)Biv rapa ts/

KoiUTi'af u'n<uurTu(Vti. i>KoS6fjLOvyt urr-rp t^tpiaro

(xlvii. 19). It is impossible to find any other spot for

it on the comitium than that where the old curia

stood. Besides the author last quoted expressly in­

forms us that in consequence of some prodigies that

occurred in the year before Caesar's murder it had

been resolved to rebuild the Curia Hostilia («al Sia

touto to" Tf QovKfUT-tipiov to 'OorlAiop arooco-

ooiinoVai tyvQtathi, lb. xlv. 17.) At the time

when this decree was made Caesar was himself pon-

tifex maximus; it would have been a flagrant breach

of religion to neglect a solemn vow of this description;

and we cannot therefore accept Beckers assertion

that this vow was never accomplished. (Ilandb.

p. 331, note 608.) We cannot doubt that the

curia erected by Augustus was in pursuance of

this decree, for Caesar did not lire even to begin it

(" Curiam et continens ei Chalcidicum — feci," Mon.

•kneyr); but though the senate-house was rebuilt, it

was no longer named Hostilia, but, after its new

founder, Julia. Now what has Becker got to oppose

to alt this weight of testimony? Solely a passage in

Gellius,— which, however, he misapprehends,— in

which it is said, on the authority of Varro, that the

new curia had to be inaugurated, which would not

have been the case had it stood on the ancient s]«t

('* Turn adscripsit (Varro) de locis in quibus senatus

consultum fieri jure posset, docuitque confirmavitque,

nisi in loco per augures constituto, quod tcniplum

appellaretur, senatusconsultum factum esset, justum

id non fuisse. Propterea et in Curia Hostilia et in

Pompeia. et pott in Julia, cum profana ea looa fuis-

sent, templa esse per augures constituta," xiv. 7. § 7.)

But Becker has here taken only a half view of these

augural rites. As a temple could not be built without

being first inaugurated, so neither could it be pulled

down without being first exaugurated. This is evident

from the accounts of theexauguration of the fanes in

order to make room for the temple of tlic Capitoline

Jupiter. (" Et, ut libera a cacteris religiouibus area

esset tota Jovis templique ejus, quod inaedificaretur,

exaugurare funa sacellaque statuit, quae aliquot ibi

a Tatio rege, consecreta inaugurataque postca fue-

rant," Liv. i. 55, cf. v. 54; Dion. Hslic. iii. 69.)

When Caesar, therefore, pulled down the curia of

Faustus he first had it exaugurated, by which the

site again became a local profamu, and would of

course require a fresh inauguration when a new

temple was erected upon it. The enria in use in

the time of Propertius (v. 1. 11) must have l*ea

tho Curia Julia; and the following lines seem to show

that it had risen on the site of the ancient one:—

"Curia praetexto quae nunc ni'.et alta Senalu.

I'cllilos habuit, rusticu corda, Pat res."

3 k a

