VEIL 1205 VEIL

in hare no notices of Veii except in the Tab. Peu-

tiogeriana and the Geographer of Ravenna. It

WMi probably destroyed by the Lombards. At the

beginning of the 11th century a castle was erected

mi the precipitous and isolated hill on the S. side

of Veii, which was called la /tola, and is now

known by the name of the Itola Famese.

Sir William Gell was the first who gave an exact

[>Un of Veii in the Memorie deldstituto (Fuse, i.),

uv! afterwards in his Topography of Rome and its

Virixite. He traced the vestiges of the ancient

rails, which were composed of irregular quadrilateral

ni«es of the local tufa, some of which were from 9

u 11 feet in length. Mr. Dennis, however, failed to

lumerany traces of them (Etruria, vol. i. p. 15), and

[escribes the stone used in the fortifications of Veii,

i being cut into smaller pieces than usual in other

Ctnucan cities. These remains, which are princi-

■ally to be traced in the N. and K., as well as the

trraini and the outline of the cliffs, determine the

Kent of the city in a manner that cannot be mis-

ikra. They give a circumference of about 7 miles,

ftiii h agrees with the account of Dionysius, before

pferred to, when he compares the size of Veii with

lint of Athens. It has been debated whether the

»lat«d rock, called the Itola Farntte, formed part of

be city. Nibby (M'slonii, vol. iii. p. 424) and others

re of opinion that it was the arx or citadel. On

■e other hand Sir William Gell and Mr. Dennis

>U that this could not have been the case ; and it

rait be confessed that the reasons advanced by the

Iter (vol. i. p. 42, note 5) appear decisive ; namely,

. the Itola is separated from the city by a deep

I'n, to that, had it been the citadel, Caiuillus by

■ capture would not have obtained immediate pos-

sti'io uf the town, as we learn from Livy's narrative,

( ire referred to, that he did : 2, the remains of

nitran tombs on the Itola show that it must have

•en a cemetery, and consequently without the walls,

te two authorities last cited identify the citadel

ith the hill now called the ISazza d Armi at the

EL extremity of the town, in the angle formed by

junction of the stream called Fotto de' due Fosti

■:h that called Fotto di Formello. These two

ramx traverse the southern and eastern bowl­

ines of ancient Veii. The latter of these streams,

Fotto di Formello, is thought to be the ancient

einera. The other rivulet rises at La Torretta,

■nit 12 miles from Rome. Near Veii it forms a tine

tonict. precipitating itself over a rock about 80

>'• high. From this spot it runs in a deep channel

long precipices, and separates the Itola from the

*t of V«i. It then receives the Hivo del JHno or  
ill Startu, whence its name of Fotto de' due Foui.

•tr joining the Fotto di Formello, or Crcmera,

'united stream is now called La Valca, and

i» into the Tiber about 6 miles from Rome, near

> Via Flaminia.

I opngraphera have discovered 9 gates, to which

rj bare assigned imaginary names from local cir-

itstanees. It would be impossible to explain the

"t sites of these gates without the assistance of

i'lan, and we shall therefore content ourselves with

urrierating them in the order in which they occur,

'inuing only that all writers do not call them

The westernmost gate, called the Porto de'

tf Paji, from its being supposed to have led to the

•rict called the Srptem Pagi, is situated near the

dttt Itola. Then proceeding round tlte S. side

[he city, the next gate occurs near the Fotto dell' I

•I". and, from it* leading to the rock of I sola, which, I

voi. n.

as we have seen, was thought by some topographers

to be the ancient citadel, lias been called the Porta

dell' Arce. The next gate on the E. is the Porta

Campana; and after that, by the Piazza a* Armi, is

the Porta Fidenate. Near this spot was discovered, in

1840, the curious staircase called La Scaletta. Only

eight steps of uncemented masonry, seated high in the

cliff, remain, the lower part having fallen with the

cliff. After passing the Piazza of Armi, in traversing

the northern side of the city by the valley of the

Cremera, the gates occur in the following order: the

Porta di Pietra Pertuta; the Porta delle Are

Muzie; the Porta Captnate; the Porta del Colom-

bario, so named from the columbarium near it;

and lastly the Porta Sutrina, not far from the Ponte

di Formello.

The Municipium Veiens, which succeeded the

ancient town, was undoubtedly smaller; for Roman

sepulchres and columbaria, which must have been

outside the Municipium, hare been discovered within

the walls of Etruscan Veii. It was perhaps not

more than 2 miles in circumference. On the spot

probably occupied by the Forum, were discovered

the colossal heads of Augustus and Tiberius, and

the colossal statue of the latter, crowned with oak

and in a sitting posture, which are now in the Vati­

can, in the corridor of the Muteo Chiamnwnte.

Several other fragments of statues bare been found,

as well as 24 marble columns, 12 of which now

adorn the Piazza Colonna at Rome, and the rest are

employed in the Chapel of the Sacrament in the new

Basilica of St Paul.

The remains of Etruscan Veii are portions of the

walls, the bridge near the Porta di Pietra Pertuta,

the bridge, or tunnel, called Ponte Sodo, and the

tombs and sepulchral grottoes. Of the wails we have

already spoken. The remains of the bridge consist

of a piece of wall about 20 feet wide on the bank

of the stream, which seems to have formed the pier

from which the arch sprung, and some large blocks

of hewn tul'o which lie in the water. The piers of

the bridge called Ponte Formello are also possibly

Etruscan, but the arch is of Roman brickwork. The

Ponte Sodo is a tunnel in the rock through which

the stream flows. Nibby (Itintorni, vol. iii. p. 433),

describes it as 70 feet long., 20 wide, and 15 high:

but Mr. Denuis, who waded through it, says that it

is 240 feet long, 12 to 15 wide and nearly 20 hiirh

(Ftnria, vol. i. p. 14). It is in all probability an

Etruscan excavation, or has at all events been enlarged

by art. An ancient road ran over it ; and from above

it is scarcely visible. No trare remains of the cuni-

cuius of Caiuillus. The vicinity of Veii abounds

with tombs excavated in the rock, and sepulchral

tumuli, some of which are Roman. Among the

tombs is a very remarkable one, discovered in the

winter of 1942, and still open to inspection. It

consists of a long passage in the tumulus, or mound,

called Pvggio Aiichele, leading to a door in the mid­

dle of the mound, and guarded at each end by sculp­

tured lions. This is the entrance to a low dark

chamber, hewn out of the nx k, the walls of which

are covered with paintings of the most grotesque

character, consisting of horses, men, sphinxes, dogs,

leopards, he. On either hide a bench of rock, about

2} feet high, projects from the wall, on each of

which, when the tomb was first opened, a skeleton

reposed ; but these soon crumbled into dust. One

of them, from the arms lying near, was the remains

of a warrior ; the other skeleton was probably that of

his wife. On the tioor were large jars containing

4 x

r

