1098 TARENTUM. TAKEXTUM.

the land side by drawing a double line of fortifica­

tions across the isthmus, and made himself master

of the sea by drawing a part of the fleet which was

shut up within the inner port (or Mare Piccolo'),

across the narrowest part of the isthmus, and

launching it again in the outer bay. (Pol. rift.

34—36; Liv. Mr. 11.) This state of things con­

tinued for more than two years, during the whole of

which time the Carthaginians continued masters of

the city, while the Roman garrison still maintained

possession of the citadel, and the besiegers were

unabla altogether to prevent them from receiving

supplies from without, though on one occasion the

Romans, having sent a considerable fleet under D.

Quintiua to attempt the relief of the place, this was

met by the Tarentincs, and after an obstinate con­

flict the Koman fleet was defeated and destroyed.

(Liv. xxv. 15, xxvi. 39, xxvii. 3.) At length in

K. c. 209 Fabius determined if possible to wrest

from Hannibal the possession of this important post;

and laid siege to Tarentum while the Carthaginian

genera! was opposed to Marcellus. He himself en-

eamped on the N. of the port, close to the entrance,

so that he readily put himself in communication

with M. Lirins, the commander of the citadel. But

while he was preparing his ships and engines for the

assault, an accident threw in his way the oppor­

tunity of surprising the city, of which he made

himself master with Uttls difficulty. The Cartha­

ginian garrison was put to the sword, as well as a

large part of the inhabitants, and the whole city

was given up to plunder. (Id. xxvii. 12, 15, 16;

l'lut. Fob. 21—23.) Livy praises the magna­

nimity of Fabina in not carrying off the statues and

other works of art in which Tarentum abounded

(Liv. xxvii. 16; l'lut. Fab. 23); but it is certain

that he transferred from thence to Rome a celebrated

statue of Hercules by Lysippus, which long con­

tinued to adorn the Capitol. (Strab. vi. p. 278;

Plin. xxxiv. 7. s. 18.) The east quantity of gold

and silver which fell into the bands of the victors

sufficiently bears out the accounts of the great

wealth of tiie Tarontines. (Liv. /. c.)

Tarentum had already suffered severely on its

capture by Hannibal, and there can be no doubt that

it sustained a still severer blow when it was retaken

by Fabius. (Strab. vi. p. 278.) It was at first

proposed to degrade it to a condition similar to that

of Capua, but this was opposed by Fabius, and the

decision was postponed till after the war. (Liv.

xxvii. 25.) What the final resolution of the senate

was we know not; but Tarentum is alluded to at a

fiubsequ-'nt period, as still retaining its position of

an allied city, "urbs foedernta." (Liv. xxxv. 16.)

It is certain that it still remained the chief place in

this part of Italy, and was the customary residence

of the praetor or other magistrate who was seat to

the S. of Italy. Thus we find in b. c. 185, L.

Postnmins sent thither to carry on investigations

into the conspiracies that had arisen out of the

Bacchanalian rites, as well as among the slave

population. (Liv. xxxix. 29, 41.) But it is never­

theless clear that it was (in common with the other

Greek cities of this part of Italy) fallen into a state

of great decay; and hence, in D. c. 123, among the

colonies sent out by C. Grucchns, was one to Taren­

tum, which appears to have assumed the title of

Colouia Neptunia. (Veil. Pat. i. 15; Plin iii. 11.

S. 16; see Mommsen, in BerichU der S<h:hsutchen

<U-selhchaft for 1849, pp. 49—51.) According to

Stiabo this colony became a flourishing one, and the

city enjoyed considerable prosperity ia bu day ft*

it was greatly fallen from its furaBsr fpVadnff.ari

only occupied the sits of the ancient atadfi. *3i ■

small part of the adjoining isthmus, (y.rai r. a.

278.) It was, however, one of the it* cCm ehefc

still retained the Greek language and taiasaia

common with Neapolis and Khtgium. (ft. a IS.)

The salubrity of its climate, as well as tW fcrtiBf

of its territory, and, above all. the impentact d m

port, preserved it from the complete daca? lotevfcsfc

so many of the cities of Magna Gr=ecm feQ

Roman government. It is repeatedly

during the civil wars between Octavun,Aow.i

Sex. Pompeius as a naval station of importm as

it was there that in b. c 36 a fresh

was come to between Octavian arid Acta?,

we find alluded to by Tacitus as the * Ivm

foedus." (Appian, B. C. il 40, r. 50,

—99; Tac Ann. i. 10.)

Even under the Empire Tarentum eBnti^nad wto

one of the chief seapwts of Italy, tkeua c

measure eclipsed by the growing impcay* d |

Brundusium. (Tac. Ann. xit. 12. i/ut a, U) J

An additional colony of veterans was tent lien

der Nero, but with little effect, mast of then ss

soon again dispersed. (Tac, An*, xrr. 27.)

subsequent mention of TarentQm is found ta saSsB

until after the fall of the Western En fast, MH

then appears as a considerable town, sad bs

important part in the Gothic Wars es acrmata'tej

strength as a fortress, and the excellence of o*|

(Procop. B. G. iii. 23, 27, 37, iv. 26, 34.) B

taken by Belisarins, but retakeu by Tatiliisi

549, and continued in the hands of tht GabiiMR

was finally wrested from them by Kaneb. fnaj

that time it continued subject to the Byusaat

pire till a. d. 661, when it was taken trrtfafl

bard itomoaldus, duke of Beneveotas (P. 1

vi. 1); and afterwards fell eocussihtJ ■*

hands of the Saracens and the Greek erEpefoa.

latter did not finally lose their hold hc£s

taken by Robert Guiscard in 1063. It ka

since formed part of the kingdom of Napa*,

modern city of Tarentum has a popalatka d

20,000 souls; it is the see of an

still ranks as the most important city in that

Italy. But it is confined to the space ores?

the ancient citadel, the extremity of tht pi

or promontory between the two ports: this a

island, the low Isthmus which connected il a

mainhind having been cut through by kisf

nand 1., for the purpose of strengthen^ '*>

cations.

Scarcely any remains arc now extant of tttS^

hrated and opulent city of Tarentntn.

(says Swinburne) was a place mart saasfclfl

swept oil" the face of the earth/ Smnt sift* J

mains of an amphitheatre (of course it

are visible outside the walls of the

while within it the convent of the Csksfjnas)

on the foundations of an ancient temple. £*■

extent of the ancient city can be very est*

determined. A few slight vestige* rf tht J

walls are, however, visible near an old ebaeck

bears the name of Sta Maria tM jtfartesa,

miles from the pates of the modern city

is uo doubt that the walls extended fro

the one side to the Mart. Piccolo, oa ti

to the outer sea. The general form of

thus triangular, having: the citadel i

which ia now joined to the oppuoiic

m

