341 MESSENIA MESSENIA.

session of the western slopest but how far their terri­

tory extended on this si«lc has been a matter of dis­

pute. The confines of the two countries was marked

by a temple of Artemis Limnatis, at a place called

Limnae, where the Messenians and Laconians offered

sacrifices in common; and it was the murder of the

Spartan king Telechu at this place which gave oc­

casion to the First Messenian War. (Paus. hi. 2. §6,

iv. 4. §2, iv. 31. §3; comp. Strab. vi. p. 257, viii.

p. 362.) The exact site of Limnae is not indicated

by Pausanias: and accordingly Leake, led chiefly by

the name, supposes it to have been situated in the

plain upon the left bank of the Pamisus, at the

marshes near the confluence of the Aris and Pamisus,

and not far from the site of the modern town of Xisi

(Nijffl, island), which derives that appellation from

the similar circumstance of its position. (Leake,

MoretL, vol. i. p. 361.) But Ross has discovered the

ruins of the temple of Artemis Limnatis on the west­

ern slope of Mt. Taygetus, on a part of the moun­

tains called Volimnos (Bu>\tfivo$\ and amidst the

ruins of the church of Panaghia Volimniattssa (Jia-

vayla hw\ifiyidrttnra). Volimnos is the name of a

hollow in the mountains near a mountain torrent

flowing into the Nedon. and situated between the vil­

lages of Sitzara and Poliani, of which the latter is

about 7 miles NE. of Katanvita, the ancient Phe-

rac. The fact of the similarity of the names, Bt£-

Xtfjivot and Af/ivoi, and also of Uavayla Ba>\ifivtd-

rtcffa and 'Aprtfits At^rdrts, as well as the ruins

of a temple in this secluded spit, would alone make

it probable that these are the remains of the cele­

brated temple of Artemis Limnatis; but this is ren­

dered certain by the inscriptions found by Ross

upon the spot, in which this goddess is mentioned by

name. It is also confirmed by the discovery of two

boundary stones to the eastward of the ruins, upon

the highest ridge of Taygetus, upon which are in­

scribed "Opos haKtbatunvi *pbs Mfaerftrnv. These

pillars, therefore, show that the boundaries of Mes-

senia and Laconia must at one period have been at

no great distance from this temple, which is always

represented as standing near the confines of the two

countries. This di-trict was a frequent subject of

dispute between the Messenians and Lacedaemonians

even in the times of the Roman Empire, as we shall

see presently. Tacitus calls it the "Dentheliates

Ager" {/list, iv. 43); and that this name, or some­

thing similar, was the proper appellation of the dis­

trict, appears from other authorities. Stephanas It.

speaks of a town "Denthalii" (AtvddKim, #. v.:

others read A<A0dVtoi), which was a subject of

contention between the Messenians and Lacedae­

monians. Alcman also (op. A then. i. p. 31), in enu­

merating the different kinds of Laconian wine, men­

tions also a Denthian wine (A<V0i$ olvoi), which

came from a fortress Dcnthiades (l«r A«F0idoW ipv-

fiarSs Tirol), as particularly good. Ross conjectures

that this fortress may have stood up<in the moun­

tain of Su George, a little S. of Sit&tru, where a few

ancient remains arc said to exist. The wine of this

mountain is still celebrated. The position of the

above-mentioned places will be best shown by the

accompanying map.

But to return to the history of Messenia. In

each of the two wars with Sparta, the Messenians,

after being defeated in the open plain, took refuge

in a strung fortress, in Ith<>me in the first war, and

in Kira or Ira in the second, where they maintained

themselves for several years. At the conclusion of

the Second Measenian War, many of the Mvaseuuuu

left their'country, and settled in various parti «f

Greece, where their descendants continued to d*- 1

as exiles, hoping for their restoration to their native

land. A large number of them, under the tw0 »ri

of Aristomenes, sailed to Rhegium in Italy, and

afterwards crossed over to the opposite coast of Sicily,

where they obtained possession of Zancle, to which

they gave their own name, which the city baa re­

tained down to the present day. [Muvu**.]

Those who remained were reduced to the conditio

of Helots, and the whole of Messenia was incor­

porated with Sparta. From this time (a. ci 66$)

to the battle of Leuctra (b. c. 371), a period of nearly

300 years, the name of Messenia was blotted out of

history, and their country bore the name of Lacor.a,

a fact which it is important to recollect in read in;

the history of that period. Once only the Mesaeniani

attempted to recover their independence. The great

earthquake of B.C. 464, which reduced Sparta to a

heap of ruins, encouraged the Messenians and other

Helots to rise against their oppressors. They took

refuge in their ancient stronghold of Ithome; and

the Spartans, after besieging the place in rain fv

ten years, at length obtained possession of it, by

allowing the Messenians to retire unmolested from

Peloponnesus. The Athenians settled the exiles at

Naupactus, which they had lately taken from the

Locri Ozolae; and in the Peloponnesian War thry

were among the most active of the allies of Athens.

(Thuc. i. 101—103; Paus. iv. 24. § 5, acq.) The

capture of Athens by the Lacedaemonians comprlW

the Messenians to quit Naupactus. Many of tLe-n

took refuge in Sicily and Rhegium, where some V

their countrymen were settled; but the greal**r fart

sailed to Africa, and obtained settlements annxig 'he

Kuesperitae, a Libyan people, (Pans. iv. 26. § 2 )

After the power of Sparta had been broken by the

battle of Leuctra (B. c. 371), Kpaminondas, in orc>r

to prevent her from regaining her former iuflcroce

in the Peloponnesus, resolved upon forming an Ar­

cadian confederation, of which Megalopolis was t) be

the capital, and at the same time of restoring the

Messenian state. To accomplish the latter objrrt, he

not only converted the Helots into free Mr-^nians,

but he despatched messengers to Italy, Sicily, and

Africa, where the exiled Messenians had settled, ir.-

viting them to return to their native land. His

tmmmons was gladly resporded to, and in a.C 369

the new town of Messene was built. Its cHada* at

acropolis was placed upon the summit of Ml Ithomt,

while the town itself was situated lower down on

the slope, though connected with its acrofuli* b* a

continuous wall. (Diod. xv. C6; Paus. W. 17.)

[Messenk.] During the 300 years of exile, the

Messenians retained their ancient customs and EVwic

dialect; and even in the time of Pausanias they

spoke the purest Doric in Peloponnesus. (Pans.

iv. 27. § 11 ; comp. Mtiller. Dor. vol. iL p. all,

transl.) Other towns were also rebuilt, but a grrat

part of the land htill continued uncultivated »:»i

deserted. (Strab. viii. p. 302.) Under the \r\t**~

tion of Thebes, and in close alliance with the Arca­

dians (comp. Polyb. iv. 39), Meuene maintained tt»

independence, and the Lacedaemonian* lost Mf»«*«a

for ever. On the downfall of the Theban Miprtmnry,

the Mchsenians courted the alliance of pin: y •(

Macednn, and consequently took no part with the

other Greeks at the battle of Chaeroneta. a. c. SSft-

(Paus, iv. 28. § 2.) Philip rewarded them by <

pel ling the Lacedaemonians to cede to them f'

and certain districts. (Polyb. ix. 18; Tac -aaav

