NABATAEI.

393 NABATAEI.

the captivity. They were the friends and allies of

the Jews in their straggle for independence; for

when Judas Maccabaeus, with his brother Jonathan,

found them 3 days S. of the Jordan (cir. n. c. 164),

they received him amicably, and gave him informa­

tion which led to the deliverance of the oppressed

Jews in Gilead from the Ammonites, under Timo-

theus (Joseph. Ant. xii. 8. § 3; 1 Maccab. v. 24,

Ac); and when preparing for an engagement with

Bavchides (cir. B. c. 161), the same Jonathan pro­

posed to place all their moveable property in their

custody. (lb. xiii. 1. § 2; 1 Maccab. ix. 33.) Hut

the earliest and fullest notice of this people and of

their country occurs in Diodorus Siculus, who men­

tions them frequently. In B.C. 312, Antigonus,

having recovered Syria and Palestine out of the

hands of Ptolemy, resolved on an expedition against

the Nabataei, and detached his general Athenaeus

on this service, with 4000 light-armed troops and

600 light cavalry. The manners of these Arabs

and their country is described by the historian in

this connection. They inhabited tents in a vast

desert tract, which offered neither streams nor

fountains to an invading army. Their institutions,

as described by him, bear a striking resemblance to

those of the Rechabites in every particular, "to

drink no wine, nor to build houses, nor to have vine­

yard, nor field, nor seed, but to dwell in tents."

(Jer. vxxv. 6—11.) Diodorus mentions that the

violation of any of these customs was a capital

crime. Their occupations were chiefly pastoral;

some possessing camels and others sheep in much

greater abundance than the other Arabs, although

their number did not exceed 10,000; but they also

acted as carriers of the aromatic drugs of Arabia

Kelix, which were discharged at their great mart at

Petra, and by them transported to the Mediter­

ranean, at Hhinocorura. The love of liberty was a

passion with thein; and their custom, when attacked

by a more powerful enemy, was to retire to the wil­

derness, whither the invaders could not follow thein

for want of water. They themselves had provided

for such emergencies vast subterranean reservoirs of

rain water, dug in the clayey soil, or excavated in

the soft rock, and plastered, with very narrow

mouth-*,—which could be easily stopped and con­

cealed from sight, but which were marked by indi­

cations known only to themselves,—but gradually

expanding until they attained the dimensions of 100

feet square. They lived on flesh and milk, and on

the spontaneous produce of the country, such as

pepper and wild honey, which they drank mixed

witl> water. There was an annual fair held in their

country, to which the bulk of the males used to

resort for purposes of truffle, leaving their flocks

with their most aged men, and the women and

children at Petra, naturally a very strong place,

though unwalled, two days distant from the inha­

bited country. Athenaeus took advantage of the

absence of the Nabataeans at the fair, to attack

Petra; and making a forced march of 3 days and 3

nizhts from the eparchy of Idumaea, a distance of

2200 stadia, he assaulted the city about midnight,

slaughtered and wounded many of its inhabitant1),

and carried off an immense booty in spicery and

silver. [Pktka.] On his retreat, however, he

was surprised by the Nabataei, and all his forces

cut to pieces, with the exception of 50 horsemen.

Shortly afterwards Antigonus sent another expedi­

tion against Petra, under the command of Demetrius;

but the inhabitants were prepared, and Demetrius

was glad to withdraw his army on receiving such

gifts as were most esteemed among them. (Diod.

xix. 44—48, comp. ii. 48.) In the geographical

section of his work the author places them on the

Laianites Sinus, a bay of the Aelanitic gulf, and de­

scribes thein as possessing many villages, both on

the coast and in the interior. Their country was

most populous, and incredibly rich in cattle; but

their national character had degenerated when he

wrote (cir. u. c. 8). They had formerly lived ho­

nestly, content with the means of livelihood

which their Hoiks supplied; but from the time that

the kings of Alexandria had rendered the gulf navi­

gable for merchant vessels, they not only practised

violence as wreckers, but made piratical attacks

from their coasts on the merchantmen in the passage

through the gulf, imitating in ferocity and lawless­

ness the Tauri in Pontus. Ships of war were sent

against them, and the pirates were captured and

punished. (lb. iii. 42, comp. Strabo, xvi. p. 777.)

The decrease of their transport trade and profits, by

the new channel opened through Egypt, was doubt­

less the real cause of this degeneracy. The trade,

however, was not entirely diverted; later writers

still mention Petra of the Nabataei as the great en­

trepot of the Arabian commerce (Arrian, Periplus,

p. 11, ap. Hudson, vol. i.), both of the Gerrhaei

of the west, and of the Minaei of the south of that

peninsula. (Strabo, xvi. p. 776.) The account given

by Strabo agrees in its main features with the earlier

record of Diodorus Siculus; and he records at length

the deception practised on his friend Aelius Gallus

by Syllaeus, the procurator (e'wiTpoirof) of the Na­

bataei, under the king Obodas; a false friend of the

Romans, through whose territory he first led them

on leaving Leuce Come, where they had landed.

The policy of Syllaeus illustrates the remark of

Strabo (xvi. p. 783), that the Nabataeans arc prudent

and acquisitive; so much so, that those who wasted

their property were punished, and those who in­

creased it rewarded by the state. They had few

slaves among them; so they either waited on them­

selves, or practised mutual servitude in families,

even in the royal family. They were much ad­

dicted to feasting, and their domestic manners

marked considerable progress in luxury and refine­

ment, from the rude simplicity of the primitive times

described by the more ancient author (p. 783,

scq.). He mentions that they were fire-worship­

pers, and sacrificed duily to the sun on their

house-tops Their government may be styled a

limited monarchy, as the king was subject to be

publicly called to account, and to have to defend

himself before the people. Their cities were un­

walled, and their country fruitful in everything

but the olive. The limits of their country are not

clearly defined; Strabo places them above the

Syrians, with the Sabaei, in Arabia Felix (xvi. p.

779); but this must be a corrupt reading, and is in­

consistent with his other notices of them. Thus he

speaks of the promontory near Seal Island — the

peninsula of Mount Sinai — as extending to Petra

of the Arabs called Nabataei (p. 776), which he

describes as situated in a desert region, particularly

towards Judaea, and only three or four days'

journey from Jericho (p. 779). The approach to

Egypt from the east, towards Phoeiiice and Judaea,

was difficult by way of Pelusium, but from

Arabia Nabataea it was easy. All these and

similar notices serve to show that, from the age of

Antigonus to this period, the Nabataei had in­

