382 MYOEXAE. MTCENAE.

cuit, with the exception of a small open space above

the precipitous cliff on the southern side, which per­

haps was never defended by a wall The walls are

more perfect titan those of any other fortress in

Greece; in some places they are 15 or 20 feet high.

They are built of the dark-coloured limestone of the

surrounding mountains. Some parts of the walls

are built, like those of Tiryns, of huge blocks of

stone of irregular shape, no attempt being made to

fit them into one another, and the gaps being filled

up with smaller stones. Ii.it the greater part of the

walla consists of polygonal stones, skilfully hewn and

fitted to one another, and their faces cut so as to

give the masonry a smooth appearance. The walls also

present, in a few parts, a third species of masonry,

in which the stones are constructed of blocks of

nearly quadrangular shape; this is the case in the

approach to the Gate of Lions. This difference in

the masonry of the walls has been held to prove

that they were constructed at different ages; but

more recent investigations amidst the ruins of Greece

and Italy has shown that this difference in the style

of masonry cannot be regarded as a decisive test of

the comparative antiquity of walls; and Col. Mure

has justly remarked that, as there can be no reason­

able doubt that the approach to the Gate of Lions is

of the same remote antiquity as the remainder of the

fabric, it would appear to have been the custom with

these primitivo builders to pay a little more atten­

tion to symmetry and regularity in the more orna­

mental portions of their work.

The chief gate of the Acropolis is at the NW.

angle of the wall. It stands at right angles to the

adjoining wall of the fortress, and is approached by a

passage 50 feet long and 30 wide, formed by that

wall and by another wall exterior to it. The opening

of the gateway widens from the top downwards; but

at least two-thirds of its height are now buried in

ruins. The width at the top of the door is 9) ftrt

This door was fonned of two massive uprights,

covered with a third block, 15 feet long, 4 feet aide,

ami 6 feet 7 inches high in the middle, but di­

minishing at the two ends. Above this block is s

triangular gap in the masonry of the wall, formed by

an oblique approximation of the side course* of ■

continued from each extremity of the lintel to i

apex above its centre. The vacant space is occupied

by a block of stone, 10 feet high, 12 broad, and I

thick, upon the face of which an sculptured two

lions in low relief, standing on their hind-legs, upon

cither side of a covered pillar, upon which they rat

their fore-feet. The column become* broader to*

wards the top, and is surmounted with a capital,

formed of a row of four circles, enclosed between two

parallel fillets. The heads of the animals are pose,

together with the apex of the cone that surmounted

the column. The block of stone, from which the

linns are sculptured, is said by Leake and ether

accurate observers to be a kind of green basalt: bat

this appears to be a mistake. We leant from Mare

(Tour in Greece, vol. ii. p. 324) that the block is

of the same jxdombino, or dove-coloured limestone, af

which the native rock mainly consists, and that the

erroneous impression has been derived from the

colour uf the polished surface, which has received

from time and the weather a blueish green hue.

The column between the lions is the customary

symbol of Apollo Agyieus, the protector of doors and

gates. (Miiller, Dor. ii. 6. § 5.) This is also prated

by the invocation of Apollo in the Agamemnon of

Aeschylus (1078, 1083, 1271), and the Electra of

Sophocles (1374), in both of which tragedies the

scene is laid in front of this gate.

GATE OF THE UUK8 AT MYCEXAE.

It has been well observed that this pair of lions

stands to the art of Greece somewhat in the same

relation as the Iliad and the Odyssey to her litera­

ture; the one, the only extant specimens of the

plastic skill of her mythical era, the other, the only

genuine memorials of its chivalry and its song. The

best observers remark that the animals are in a style

of art peculiar to themselves, and that they have little

or nothing of that dry linear stillness which charac­

terises the earlier stages of the art of sculpture in

almost every country, and present consequently as

| little resemblance to tho Archaic style of the Hrl-

! lenic works of a later period as to those of IVypt

it-elf. "The special peculiarities of their neru.

tion are a certain solidity and rotundity amounting

lo clumsiness in the limbs, as compared with the

bodies. Tbe hind-legs, indeed, are more like those

of elephants than lions; the thighs, especially, are

of immense bulk and thickness. This unfavour­

able feature, however, is compensated by mix a

natural case and dignity of attitude. The turning

of the body and shoulders is admirable, combining

