STRACUSAE. lOfil SYRACUSAE.

Turn was undoubtedly a powerful prince, and Sy-

uuse seems to have risen, during this long period

( pace and tranquillity, to a high state of wealth

w prosperity. Its commercial relations with fo-

'irn countries, especially with Egypt, were assidu-

blj eultirated and extended, while the natural

n-jurres »f its fertile territory were developed to

i- utmost by the wise and judicious regulations of

. <tt). which, under the name of the Lex Hieronica,

m subsequently introduced into all parts of Sicily,

11 continued to be observed by the Romans, in

inr administration of that province. At the same

i.'.* the monarch adorned the city with many

::'..c works and buildings, including temples, gym-

ait, &c, while he displayed his wealth and

unificence by splendid offerings, both at Rome

1 iht meat noted sanctuaries of Greece. On the

boh it may probably be assumed that the reign

IWrMi II. was the period when Syracuse attained

i oigheet degree of splendour and magnificence, as

.< u of wealth and population.

Hut this state of things was abruptly changed

'x: the death of Hieron. His grandson, Hierony-

who succeeded him, deserted the alliance of

u fur that of Carthage, and though the young

Br, was shortly after assassinated, the Carthagi-

hi party continued to maintain its ascendency at

:srtu« under two leaders named Hippocrates and

4;rdes, who were appointed generals with bu­

rn power. They shut the gates against Mar-

h. who was in command of the Roman armies

tticily, and having refused all terms of accommo-

ticjii, compelled that general to form the siege of

raeuse, B. c »14. (Liv. xxiv. 21—33.) The

trprise proved far more arduous than the Roman

■■irrul seems to have anticipated. He established

<»'i p, as the Carthaginians had repeatedly done,

height of the Olympieum ; but bis principal

sets wen directed against the northern walls, in

'trvhbuurh'iod of Hexapylum (the outlet of the

* t iwards Leontini and Megara), as well as  
i-J>t the defences of Achradina from the sea.

powerful fleet gave Marcellus the complete

nuuial of the sea, and he availed himself of this

mas; mp his ships with powerful battering cn-

f« wider the very walls which bordered the rocks

Vhrsdina; but all his efforts were baffled by the

tror skill and science of Archimedes; his engines

tbips were destroyed or sunk, and after repeated

•^'fris. both by sea and land, he found himself

iprjjed to abandon all active assaults and con-

the siege into a blockade. (Liv. xxiv. 33,34.)

>u.-iEg the winter he left the camp and army at the

rpwum, under the command of T.Quinctius Cris-

<a, while he himself took up his winter-quarters

^tsbliahad a fortified camp at Leon, on the K. side

n city. But he was unable to maintain a strict

kade by sea, and the Carthaginians succeeded

fluently throwing in supplies, so that the

kade was prolonged for more than two years;

^Ureclius began to entertain little prospect of

n*, when in the spring of B.C. 212 an accident

w in liu way the opportunity of scaling the walls

tight, at a place called by Livy the Portus Tro-

uiu (evidently the little cove called Scala

Co) ; and having thus surprised the walls he

'.'.iinstif master of the gate at Hexapylum, as

as of a great part of the slope of Epipolae. But

>tn og fi n of Kuryalua, at the angle of Epipolae,

»; t.it erlurts, ar>J the walls of Achradina, which

rrtunoi iu separate fortifications, enabled the

Syracusans to hold possession of that important

part of the city, as well as of the island and fortress

of Ortygia. The two quarters of Tycha and Nea-

polis were, however, surrendered to him, and given

up to plunder, the citizens having stipulated only

for their lives ; and shortly after Philodemus, who

commanded the garrison of Euryalus, having no

hopes of relief, surrendered that important post also

into the hands of Marcellus. (Liv. xxv. 23—25.)

The Roman general was now in possession of the

whole heights of Epipolae, and being secured from

attacks in the rear by the possession of Euryalus, he

divided his forces into three camps, and endeavoured

wholly to blockade Achradina. At the same time

Crispinus still held the old camp on the hill of the

Olympieum. (So. 26.) In this state of things a

vigorous effort was made by the Carthaginians to

raise the siege: they advanced with a large army

under Himilco and Hippocrates, and attacked the

camp of Crispinus; while Bomilcar, with a fleet of

150 ships, occupied the Great Harbour, and took

possession of the shore between the city and the

mouth of the Anapus, at the same time that Epi-

cydes made a vigorous sally from Achradina against

the lines of Marcellus. But they were repulsed at

all points, and though they continued for some time

to maintain their army iu the immediate neighbour­

hood of the city, it was soon attacked by a pestilence,

arising from the marshy nature of the low grounds

in which they were encamped, to which both Hip­

pocrates and Himilco fell victims, with a great part

of their troops. Bomilcar, also, who had quitted

the port with the view of obtaining reinforcements

from Carthage, never returned, and Epicydea, who

had gone out to meet him, abandoned the city to its

fate, and withdrew to Agrigentum. The defence of

Syracuse was now entrusted to the leaders of the

mercenary troops, and one of these, a Spaniard

named Mericus, betrayed his post to Marcellus. A

body of Roman troops was landed in the night at

Die extremity of the island, near the fountain of

Arethusa, and quickly made themselves masters of

the whole of Ortygia; while Marcellus, having at the

same time made a gener.il assault on Achradina,

succeeded in carrying a portion of that quarter also.

The remaining part of the city was now voluntarily

surrendered by the inhabitants; and Marcellus, after

taking precautions to secure the royal treasures, and

the houses of those citizens who had been favourable

to the Romans, gave up the whole city to be pillaged

by his soldiers. Archimedes, who had contributed

so much to the defence of the city, was accidentally

slain in the confusion. The plunder was said to be

enormous; and the magnificent statues, pictures,

and other works of art which were carried by Mar­

cellus to Rome, to adorn his own triumph, are said

to have given the first impulse to that love of Greek

art which afterwards became so prevalent among the

Romans. (Liv. xxv. 26—31, 40; 1'lut. .Vorc. 14

— 19 ; Diod. xxvi. Kr. 18—20.)

From this time Syracuse sank into the ordinary

condition of a Roman provincial town; but it con­

tinued to be the unquestionable capital of Sicily, and

was the customary residence of the Roman praetors

who were sent to govern the island, as well as of

one of the two quaestors who were charged with its

financial administration. Even in the days of Cicero

it is spoken of by that orator as "the greatest of

Greek cities, and the most beautiful of all cities."

(Cic. Verr. iv. 52.) Its public buildings had ap­

parently suffered little, if at all, from its capture by

3 Y 3

