380 MUZIRIS. MYCENAE.

tome i. p. 349); as indeed he maintains, that some

of the maritime towns of the coast of lleiljaz and

Yemen date more than 400 or 500 rears from their

foundation, and that the towns whose walls were

once washed by the waters of the gulf, and which

owed their existence to their vicinity to the sea, have

disappeared since its retirement, with the exception

of those whose soil was sufficiently fertile to maintain

their inhabitants. In a sandy and arid country these

were necessarily few, so that there are not more than

six or seven that can be clearly identified with ancient

sites. Among these Mat a still exists under its an­

cient name unchanged (lb. pp. 238, 239, 284) at

the required distance from the Straits of Bab-eU

Mandeb, viz. 300 stadia, reckoning MX) stadia to a

degree. (lb. pp. 2G9, 270.) Vincent makes it

short of 40 miles. (1'eriplus, p. 319.) In the

iniddle ages when the sea had already retired from

Musa, another town named Mosek or Mausldj was

built as a seaport in its stead, which seems to have

usurped the name of the more ancient town, and to

liave been mistaken for it by some geographers. This

Mosek still exists, in its turn abandoned by the sea;

but about 25' north of the true position of Mtua.

(lb. p. 270.) "The mart of Yemen at the present

day is Mokha. . . . Twenty miles inland from

Mokha Niebuhr discovered a Mvosa still existing,

which he with great probability supposes to be the

ancient mart, now carried inland to this distance by

the recession of the coast." (Vincent, I. c. p. 315.)

There is a circumstance mentioned by Ilrucc of the

roadstead of Mokha. which coincides with a state­

ment cited from Arrian with regard to Muza. Bruce

Bays that '' the cables do not rub, because the bottom

is sand, while it is coral in almost every other port."

(lb. p. 313. n. 142.) Moorn itself Xicbuhr found to

be 6J hours = 4.J German miles, due east of Mokha,

at the commencement of the mountain country, the

intervening space being extremely dry and thinly

peopled. It is an ordinary village, badly built, only

recommended by its water, which is drunk by the

wealthier inhabitants of Mokha. ( Vtryage en Arahie,

tome i. pp. 296, 297; Uencriptiun de fArable,

pp. 194, 195.) [G. W.]

MUZ1KIS (Mouf.pft, reript. M. F.rythr. c. 54,

p. 297, ap. Geogr. Oraec. Mm. ed. Mullcr,|1855), a

port on the west coast of llindostan, situated between

Tyndis and Nelrynda, and at the distance of 500

stadia from cither, where, according to the author of

the Periplus, ships came from Ariaca and Greece

(that is, Alexandria). Ptolemy calls it an empo­

rium (vii. 1. § 8), and places it in I.imyrica. There

can be little doubt that it is the place which is now

called Mangnlorc, and which is still a considerable

port. [V.]

in' CALF. (MuKaAn), the westernmost branch of

Alt. Mcsogis' in Lydia; it forms a high ridge and

terminates in a promontory called Trogylium, now

cape & Maria. It runs out into the sea just oppo­

site the island of Samos, from u hic-li it is separated

only by a narrow channel seven stadia in breadth. It

was in this channel, and on the mainland at the foot

of Mount Mycale, that the Persians were defeated,

in B. c. 479. It is probable that at the foot of

Mount Mycale there was a town called Mycale or

Mycallessus, for Stcphanus Ilyz. (*. v.) and Scylax

(p. 37) speak of a town of Mycale in (,'aria or

Lydia. The whole range of .Mount Mycale now

bears the name of Sunaum. (Horn. Ii ii. 869;

Herod, i. 148, vii. 80, ix. 96; Thuc. i. 14, 89;

viii. 79 ; Diod. ix. 34; Paus. v. 7. § 3, vii. 4. § 1;

Strab. xiii. pp. G21,629; PtoL v. 2. § 13; Agathem.

p. 3.) [L.S.]

MYCALESSUS (MoraA^rail: Etk. MuiraAsW-

trioj), an ancient town of Boeotia, mentioned by

Homer. (//. ii. 498, Hymn. ApolL 224.) It was

said to have been so called, because the cow, whuh

was guiding Cadmus and his comraies to Thebes,

lowed (i',uo>c7JjaTo) iD this place. (Paus. ix. 19.

§4.) In b.c. 413, some Thracians, whom tin

Athenians were sending home to their own country,

were landed on tbe Euripus, and surprised Myca-

lessus. They not only sacked the town, but put all

the inhabitants to the sword, not sparing even tbe

women and children. Thueydides says that this

was one of the greatest calamities that had rrrr

befallen any city. (Thuc. vii. 29 ; Paus. L 23. § 3.)

Strabo (ix. p. 404) calls Mycalessus a village in

the territory of Tanagra, and places it upon the

road from Thebes to Chaleis. In the time of P»n-

sanias it had ceased to exist; and this writer taw

the ruins of Harma and Mycalessus on his road to

Chaleis. (Paus. ix. 19. § 4.) Pausanias meutiuos

a temple of Demeter Mycalessia, standing is tbe

territory of the city upon the sea-coast, and situated

to the right of the Kuripus, by which be evidently

meant south of the strait. The only other indication

of the position of Mycalessus is the statement of

Thucydides (I.e.), that it was 16 stadia distant

from the Hermaeum, which was on tbe sea-shore

near the Euripus. It is evident from these account*,

that .Mycalessus stood near the Euripus; anil Leak*

places it, with great probability, upun the height

immediately above the southern bay of Kgrlptx,

where the mined walls of an ancient city still re­

main. (Northern Greece, vol. ii. pp. 249, ssvf^

2G4.) It is true, as Leake remarks, that this posi­

tion does not agree with the statement of Strabo,

that Mycalessus was on the road from Thebes to

Chaleis, since the above-mentioned ruins are nearly

two miles to the right of that road; but Strabo

writes loosely of places which he had never icro,

Mycalessus is also mentioned in Strab. ix. pp. 405,

410; Paus. iv. 7. a. 12.

MYCE'NAE, a town in Crete, the foundation of

which was attributed by an historian of tbe Augustan

age (Veil. Paterc. i. 1) to Agamemnon.

Harduin (ad Plln. iv. 12) proposed to read

Mycenae for MmiNA, which is mentioned as a city

of Crete in the text of Pliny (L c). Siebw (Kritr,

vol. ii. p. 280) believed that he had discovered lbs

remains of this city at a place called Maca at

Maiit, on the river Armyro. (Hock, Kreia, vol i.

p. 435.) [E.B.J.]

MYCE'XAE, sometimes MYCE'XE (MVarMu:

Mo*r^»T7,Hom.y/.iv.52: FAh. MuJrnyoiof, Mycenaeus

Mycenensis: Kharcatl), one of the most ancient

towns in Greece, and celebrated as the residence \4

Agamemnon. It is situated at the north-eastern ex­

tremity of the plain of Argos upon a nigged height,

which is shut in by two commanding summits of U>«

range of mountains which border this side of tbe

Argeian plain. From its retired position it is de­

scribed by Homer (Ud. iii. 263) as situated in a rv-

cess (u>vx$) of the Argeian land, which is supposed

by some modern writers to be the origin of the name.

The ancients, however, derived the name from aa

eponymous heroine Mycene, daughter of lnachus, or

from the word p.wtnt. for which various reasons vnr*

assigned. (Paus. ii. 17. § 3; Strph. B. #. r.) lbs

position was one of great important*. In the ir%z

place it commanded the upper jart of the great Ar­

