JERUSALEM,

17 JERUSALEM.

attached, perhaps, to two neighbouring sites after-

wards incorporated into one. The sacred narrative,

by implication, and Josephas, explicitly, recognise

from the first a distinction between the Upper and

the Lower city, the memorial of which is supposed to

be retained in the dual form of the Hebrew name

Dv«?W. The learned are divided in opinion as

to whether the Salem of Melchizedek is identical

with Jerusalem. St Jerome, who cites Josephus

and a host of Christian authorities in favour of their

identity, himself maintaining the opposite conclusion,

savs that extensive ruins of the palace of Melchizedek

were shown in his day in the neighbourhood of

Seythopolis, and makes the Salem of that patriarch

identical with "Shalem, a city of Shechem" {Gen.

xxxiii. 18); the same, no doubt, with the Salim near

to Aenon (SL John, iii. 23), where a village of the

same name still exists in the mountains east of

Xablit. Certain, however, it is that Jerusalem is

intended by this name in Psalm Ixxvi. 2, and the

almost universal agreement of Jews and Christians

in its identity with the city of Melchizedek is still

further confirmed by the religions character which

seems to have attached to its governor at the time of

the coming in of the children of Israel, when we find

it under the rule of Adonizedek, the exact equivalent

to Melchizedek ("righteous Lord"). Regarding,

then, the Utter half of the name as representing the

ancient Salem, we have to inquire into the origin of

the former half, concerning which there is consider­

able diversity of opinion. Josephus has been under­

stood to derive it from the Greek word Xtpov, prefixed

to Salem. In the obscure passage {Ant. vii. 3. § 2)

he is so understood by St. Jerome; but Isaac Vossius

defends him from this imputation, which certainly

would not raise his character as an etymologist

Lightfoot, after the Kabbies, and followed by Whiston,

regards the former half of the name as an abbre­

viation of the latter part of the title Jehovah-jireA,

which this place seems to have received on occasion

of Abraham offering up his son on one of the moun­

tains of " the land of Moriah." (Gen. xxii. 8, 14.)

Belaod, followed by Raumer, adopts the root BH^

yaratk, and supposes the name to be compounded of

CV1 and aVff, which would give a very good

sense, " hereditas," or " possessio hereditaria pacis."

Lastly, Dr. Wells, followed by Dr. Lee, regards the

former part of the compound name as a modification

of the name Jebus, C13\ one of the earlier names

of the city, from which its Canaanitish inhabitants

were designated Jebusites. Dr. Wells imagines that

the 3 was changed into 1, for the sake of euphony;

Dr. Lee, for euphemy, as Jebosalem would mean

• the trampling down of peace" — a name of ill

omen. Of these various interpretations, it may be

said that Lightfoot's appears to have the highest

authority; but that Reland's is otherwise the most

satisfactory. Its other Scripture name, Sum, is

merely an extension of the name of one particular

quarter of the city to the whole. There is a further

question among critics as to whether by the city

Cadytis, mentioned in Herodotus, Jerusalem is in­

tended. It is twice alluded to by the historian: once

as a city of the Syrians of Palaestine, not much

•mailer than Sardis (iii 5); again, as having been

takes by Pharoah-Necho, king of Egypt, after his

victory in Magdolum (ii. 159). The main objections

urged against the identity of Cadytis and Jerusalem

in these passages, are, that in the former passage

VOL II.

Herodotus is apparently confining his survey to the

sea-border of Palaestine, and that the fact narrated in

the second is not alluded to in the sacred narrative.

But, on the other hand, there is no mention in sacred

or profane history of any other city, maritime or

inland, that could at all answer to the description of

Cadytis in respect to its size: and the capture of

Jerusalem by Nccho after the battle of Megiddo, —

which is evidently corrupted by Herodotus into Mag­

dolum, the name of a city on the frontier of Egypt

towards Palaestinc, with which he was more fa­

miliar,— though not expressly mentioned, is implied

in Holy Scripture; for the deposition and deportation

of Jehoahaz, and the substitution and subjugation of

Jehoiakim, could not have been effected, unless Necho

had held possession of the capital. (2 Kings, x.\iv.

29—35; comp. 2 Chron. xxxvi. 3.) It may, then,

safely be coucluded that Cadytis is Jerusalem; and

it is remarkable that this earliest form of its classical

name is nearly equivalent to the modern name by

which alone it is now known to its native inhabit­

ants. El-Khiuh signifies "the lloly (city)," and

this title appears to have been attached to it as early

as the period of Isaiah (xlviii. 2, hi. 1), and is of

frequent recurrence after the Captivity. (Nehem.

xi. 1, 18; St. Malth. iv. 5, xxvii. 53.) Its pagan

name Colonia Aelia Capitolina, like those imposed on

many other ancient cities in Palaestine, never took

any hold on the native population of the country,

nor, indeed, on the classical historians or ecclesi­

astical writers. It probably existed only in state

papers, and on coins, many of which are preserved to

this day. (See the end of the article.)

IL General Site.

Jerusalem was situated in the heart of the moun­

tain district which commences at the south of the

great plain of Esdroelon and is continued throughout

the whole of Samaria and Judaea quite to the

southern extremity of the Promised Land. It is

almost equidistant from the Mediterranean and from

the river Jordan, being about thirty miles from each,

and situated at an elevation of 2000 feet above the

level of the Mediterranean. Its site is well defined

by its circumjacent valleys.

Valleys.— (1) In the north-west quarter of the

city is a shallow depression, occupied by an ancient

pool. This is the head of the Valley of Hinnom,

which from this point takes a southern course, con­

fining the city on the western side, until it makes a

sharp angle to the east, and forms the southern

boundary of the city to its south-east quarter, where

it is met by another considerable valley from the

north, which must next be described.

(2) At the distance of somewhat less than 1500

yards from the " upper pool" at the head of the

Valley of Hinnom, are the "Tombs of the Kiugs,"

situated at the head of the Valley of Jehotlmphat,

which runs at first in an eastern course at some

distance north of the modern city, until, turning

sharply to the south, it skirts the eastern side of the

town, and meets the Valley of Hinnom at the south­

east angle, as already described, from whence they

run off together in a southerly direction to the Dead

Sea. Through this valley the brook Kedron is sup­

posed once to have run; and, although no water has

been known to flow through the valley within the

annals of history, it is unquestionably entitled to the

alias of the Valley of the Kedron.

The space between the basin at the head of the

Valley of Hinnom and the head of tie Valley of

C

