NERULUM. 421 NESTUS.

The territory of the Nervii did not extend beyond

the limits of the old diocese of Cambrai, which was,

however, very Urge. The capital of the Nervii was

Bagacum (Bavai), bat Cambrai was also a town of

the Nervii. [Cajjaracum.]

NERULUM, a town in the interior of Lucania,

mentioned by Livy during the wars of the Romans

in that country, when it was taken by assault by the

consul Aemilius Barbula, B. c. 317 (Liv. ix. 20).

The only other notice of it is found in the Itineraries,

from which we learn that it was situated on the high­

road from Capua to Rhegium, at the point of junc­

tion with another line of road which led from Vcnu-

sia by Potentia and Grumentum towards the fron­

tiers of Bruttium (/(«. Ant. pp. 105, 110; Tab.

Pcui). The names and distances in this part of the

Tabula are too corrupt and confused to be of any

service: the Itinerary of Antoninus places it 14

miles (or according to another passage 16 miles) N.

of Muranum, the site of which is clearly ascertained.

If the former distance be adopted as correct, it must

have been situated at, or in the neighbourhood of,

La Rotonda, near the sources of the river Lao

(H»L-ten. \ot. ad Clue. p. 293; Romanclli, vol. i.

p. 389). [E.H.B.]

NEKU'SII (N«pouo-ioi). This name of a people

occurs in the Trophy of the Alps (1'lin. iii. 20. s.

24). between the Oratelli and Velauni. Ptolemy (iii.

1. § 41) places them within his Italy among the

Maritime Alps. Their chief town was Vintium,

which is Venct, on the west side of the Var, and

not far from Nicaea (Atzza). [G. L.]

NESACTIUM (NwdVroi-, Ptol.), a town of Istria,

situated to the E. of l'ola, on the Flanaticus Sinus,

and not far from the river Arsia, which was the

boundary of Istria on this side. Hence Ptolemy calls

it the last city of Italy. It is mentioned by Livy us

a city of the Istrians before their conquest by Rome,

and a strong fortress, so that it stood a long siege,

and was only taken by the Roman consul C. Clau­

dius Pulcher, by cutting off its supply of water (Liv.

xli. 11). It afterwards appears both in Pliny and

Ptolemy as a municipal town of Istria under the

Romans, and seems to have survived the full of the

Western Empire, but the period of its destruction is

unknown (Pun. iii. 19. s. 23; Ptol. iii. 1. § 27( Tab.

I'eut; Anon. Rav. iv. 31). The fact of its proxi­

mity to the Arsia (/Irso), combined with Livy's

mention of a river Jhwing by the vails, render it pro­

bable that it was situated immediately on the right

bank of the Areia; but its exact site has not been

determined. [E. H. B.]

XESAEA (Njjoofa), a district mentioned in two

places in Strabo, with slightly differing descrip­

tions: I. as a country belonging to Hyrcania, and

watered by the Ochus, now Tedjen (xi. p. 509);

2. at a distinct and independent land (xi. p. 511).

1 he geographer probably meant to imply a narrow

strip of land, whose boundaries were Hyrcania,

Ariana, and Parthia respectively, and correspond­

ing with the present Khordtan. It may be iden­

tified with the existing Aitsa, a small town to tho

X. of the A llmrz chain of mountains, between At-

Imiijdd and itethtd. (Wilson, Ariana, pp. 142—

148.)

There has been some doubt as to the orthography

of the name, which, in some of the editions, is called

Ktcmla; but, on the whole, the above is probably

the best. It is not unlikely that the place called

by lttdorus J'artkaynisa, "whieh the Greeks call

Xtsafa," must also be identified with the present

Ifma. The same district answers to the " regio

Nisiaea Parthyenes nobilis" in Pliny (vi. 25. s.

29). [V.]

NESCANIA, a municipal town in Hispania Bae-

tica, stood on the site of the modern village El Valle

de A bdelaciz, 2 leagues W. from Antequera. It is

still famed for its mineral springs, the existence of

which in ancient times is attested by inscriptions.

(Ukert, vol. ii. pt 1. p. 363.) [T. H. I).]

NESIO'TIS (Nno-iiTir x*V=, Ptol. v. 9. § 17),

a district of Asiatic Sarmatia, formed by the windings

of the river Rha,and occupied by the Asaei, Mateki,

and Phtheikofhagi. [E. B. J.]

NESIS (Nisida), a small island on the coast of

Campania, between Puteoli and Neapolis, and di­

rectly opposite to the extremity of the ridge called

Mons Pausilypus (Seneca, Ep. 53). It may be con­

sidered as forming the eastern headland of the bay

of Baiao or. Puteoli, of which Cape Misenum is the

western limit. The island is of small extent, but

considerable elevation, and undoubtedly constituted

at a remote period one side of the crater of a vol­

cano. This must, however, have been extinct before

the period of historical memory; but it appears that

even in the days of Statius and Lncan it emitted

sulphureous and noxious vapours, which has long

ceased to be tho case (Stat. Silv. ii. 2. 78; Lucan,

vi. 90). It was nevertheless, like the adjoining hill

of Pausilypus, a pleasant place of residence. Brutus

had a villa there, where he was visited by Cicero

shortly after the death of Caesar, and where they

conferred, together with Cassius and Libo, upon

their future plans (Cic. ad Alt. xvi. 1—4). Pliny

tells us that it was famous for its asparagus, a

celebrity which it still retains (Plin. xix. 8. s.

42); but the wood which crowned it in the days

of Statius (Sile. iii. 1. 148), has long since disap­

peared. [E. H. B ]

NESIS (Nj><m, Arrian Peripl. p. 18), a small

river, 60 stadia from the Borgys, whieh discharges

itself into the Euxine by the Prom. Hcrculis, Cape

Constantiouski( CapeAdler of Gauttier's map), where

there is now a river called Mezioumta. [E. B. J.J

NESSON. [Nessonis Lacus.]

NESSO'NIS LACUS (>| Ntno-aids \turn), a

lake of Pelasgiotis in Thessaly, lying east of La-

rissa, now called Karatjair or Wavpo\iftvrj. In

summer it is only a marsh, and contains very little

water, but in winter it is filled by the overflowing

of the Peueius. When the basin is filled, its su­

perfluous waters are conducted by a channel into

the lake Bocbeis, now called Karla. (Strab. ix.

p. 440; Leake, Northern Greece, vol. i. p. 445,

vol. iv. p. 403.) Strabo regarded the lakes Nes­

sonis and Boebeis as the remains of the great lake

which covered Thessaly, before the waters found un

outlet through the vale of Tempe to the sea; but lie

is mistaken in saying that Nessonis is larger than

Boebeis. (Strab. ix. p. 430.) Nessonis received its

name from a town Nesson, which is mentioned only

by Stephanus B. (». t>. Niaaun).

NESTAEI. [Nesti.]

NESTANE. [Mantineia, Vol. II. p. 264, b]

NESTI, NESTAEI (NtaToi, Scylax, p. 8: Nf-

araim, Eratosthenes, ap. Sdiol. Apollon. Rhod. iv.

1296), a people of lllyricum, with a town of the

same name, near the river Nestus (N«rror, Scylax,

l.x.; Artemidorus, ap. Steph. B. J.r.), which has been

identified with the A'eria. [E. B. J.]

NESTUS or NESSUS (NtVrof, Scyl. pp. 8,

29; Seymn. 672; Pomp. Mela, ii. 2. §§ 2, 9; Plin,

e k 3

