150 LAUS POMPEIA. LAZI.

about 10 miles from the sea, is the town of I.aino.

supposed by Cluverinsto represent the ancientLata;

but the latter would apjieur, from Strata's descrip­

tion, to liavc been nearer the sea. Romaneili would

place it at Scalta, a small town with a pood port,

about three miles N. of the mouth of the river; but

it is more probable that the ancient city is to be

looked for between this and the river Lan. (Clover.

Ital p. 1262; Romaneili, vol. i. p. 383.) Accord­

ing to Strabo there was, near the river and city, a

temple or Heroum of a hero named Dracon, close to

which was the actual scene of the great battle be­

tween the Greeks and Lucanians. (Strab. L c)

Strata speaks of a gulf of Laiis, by which he can

hardly mean any other than the extensive bay now

called the C'rff of Polirnstro, which may be con­

sidered as extending from the promontory of Pynos

{Capo degli fnfrttchi) to near Cirelta. There

exist coins of Laiis, of ancient style, with the in­

scription AAINON: they were struck after the de­

struction of Sybaris, which was probably the most

flourishing time in the history of Laiis. [E. H. B.]

coin ok laOs.

LAUS POMPEIA, sometimes also called simply

La is (Ktn. Laudcnsis : Lodi Vecehio), a city of

Gallia Transpadana, situated 16 miles to the SE.

of Milan, on the highroad from that city to l'la-

centia. {Itin. Ant. pp. 98, 127.) According to

1'liny it was an ancient Gaulish city founded by the

Boians soon after they crossed the Aljis. (Plin.

iii. 17. s. 21.) It afterwards became a lioinan

municipal town, and probably assumed the epithet

of Pompeia in compliment to Pomjieiiis Strabo, who

conferred the rights of Latin citizens upon the mu­

nicipalities of Transpadana Gaul; but we find no

special mention of the fact. Nor does any his­

torical notice of Laus occur under the Roman Em­

pire: though it seems to have been at that period a

considerable town, and is termed in the Itineraries

"Laude civitas," and by P. Diaconus "Laudensis

civitas." (Itin. Ant. p. 98; Itm. Hirr. p. 617;

P. Diac. v. 2.) In the middle ages Lodi became

an iin|*irtant city, and an independent republic; but

was taken and destroyed ill A. D. 1112 by the Mi­

lanese, and in 1158 the emperor Frederic Barta-

rossa baring undertaken to restore it, transferred

the new city to the site of the modem Lodi, on the

right bank of the Atlda. The ancient rite is still

occupied by a large village called Lodi Ytochio,

about 5 miles due W. «f the modern city. It

u correctly placed by the Itineraries 16 M. P.

from Mediolanum, and 24 from 1'lacentia. (/fin.

Ant. p. 98.) [E. II. B.]

LAL'SC/NIUS LACUS, in the courtry of the

Helvetii. The Antonine Itin. has a road from Me­

diolanum {Milan) through Geneva to Argentoratum

(Strattburg). Sixteen Roman miles from Geneva,

on the rued to Strattburg, the Itin, baa Enucstris,

which is Colonia Equestris or Koviodunum (A'yon);

and the next place is I.arus Lausonius, 20 Roman

n.iles from F.questris. To tlio next station, Urba

(Orbe), is 18 Roman miles. In the Table the

is u Lactim Losonne," and the distances from Genera

to Colonia Kqnestris and Lacum Losonne are respec­

tively 18 M. 1'., or ,16 together. The Lacua Lanao-

nius is supjiosed to be Aai&Kinae, on the Lair • f

Genera; or rather a place or district, as D'Anvu*-

calls it, named Vitli. The distance from GVn-'va to

jVr/on, along the lake, is about 15 English miles;

and from A'yon to Lausanne, about 22 or 23 miles.

The distance from Geneva to Aywi ia nearly exact;

but the 20 mill's from Equeatris to the Lacos Laa-

sonius is not enough. If I'm/i, which U west of Los-

gannr, is assumed to be the place, the mcasurea w ul

agree better. IVAnvillc cites M. Bocbat as authority

for an inscription, with the name Lousonnensea, hav­

ing been dug up at f'idi, in 1739; and he add* that

there arc remains there. (Comp. Ukert'a note. (ioL

Urn, p. 491.) [G. L.]

LAUTULAE or AD LAU'TULAS (ai fuJn-

aoi. Diod.), is the name given by Livy to the pass

between '1 arracina and Fundi, where the road winJ*

round the foot of tiie mountains, between them and

the sea, so as to fonn a narrow pass, easily defensible

against a hostile force. Tliis spot figures on two oc­

casions in Roman history. In n. <*. 342 it was here

that the mutiny of the Roman army under C. Mar-

eius Kulilus tirst broke out; one of the discontented

cohorts having seized and occupied the pass at 1 j»u-

tulac, and thus formed n nucleus around which the

rest of the malcontents quickly assembled, until

they thought themselves strong enough to inarch

upon Rome. (Liv. vii. 39.) At a later period, ia

H. c. 315, it was at Lautulac tliat a great battle

was fought between the Koinans. under the dictator

Q. Fabius, and the Samnites. Livy represents thia

as a drawn tattle, with no decisive result-; ImiI Lr

himself admits that some annalists related it as a

defeat on the part of the Icunans, in which the

master of the horse, Q. Aulius, was slain (ix_ 23).

Diodorus has evidently followed the annalists thus re­

ferred to(xix. 72), and the incidental remark of Livy

himself shortly after, that il caused great agitation

throughout Campania, and led to the revolt of the

neighbouring Ausonjau cities, would seem t» prove

that the reverse must really have been much mere

serious than be has chosen to represent it, (Liv. is.

25: Niebuhr.vol. iii. pp.228—231.) The locality is

always designated by Livy as " ad Lautulas:' it a

probable that this was the name of the pas*, bat

whether there was a village or other puur called

Lautulas, we are unable to telL The nam* was

probably derived from the existence of warm simrg»

upon the spot- (Niebnhr, I. c, note 399.) It is

evidently the same pass which was occupied by

Minucius in the Second Punk War, in order to

guard the approach to Latium from Cami*n.a

(Liv. xxii. 15), though its name is 1*4 there men­

tioned. The spot is now called Potto di Parulii,

and is guarded by a tower with a gate, forming its*

barrier between tlio Roman and Neapolitan terri­

tories. (Eustace, voL ii. p. 309.) fE. IL B.]

LAXTA. [Ckltibeiua]

LAZI (Adfoi, Arrian, J'tripL p. U; Plin. vL 4;

Aafoi, Ptol. v 10. § 5), one among the many triors

which composed the indigenous population whata

clustered round the great range of the Caacara*.

'i his people, whose original seats were, according Us

l'rocopiua (B. (1. iv. 2), on the N. side of the river

i'hosia, gave their name, in later times, to the eixiiary

which was known to the Greeks and Romans a*

Cole his, but which henceforth waa calkd "Krrm

Laxica," They are frequently mentioned ia ths>

