MENAPII. 327

HENAPIA.

late period. There is little doubt that it is the city

meant bv Oiodorus (xiv. 78, where the editions have

lure*.*', a name certainly corrupt), which was re­

duced by Dionysius in B.C. 396, together with

Morgantis and other cities of the Siculi. It is men­

tioned more then once by Cicero among the muni­

cipal towns of Sicily, and seems to have been a

tolerably flourishing place, the inhabitant* of which

carried on agriculture to a considerable extent.

(Cic rerr. iii. 22, 43.) It is enumerated also by

Siliua Italicus among the cities of Sicily, and by

Plinr among the stipendiary towns of that island,

and "its name is found also in Ptolemy. (HI. Ital.

liv. 266; Plin. iii. 8. s. 14; Ptol. iii. 4. § 13.) This

is the last notice of it that occurs; but there is no

d.mbt that the modern town of M'mio retains the

name, and probably the site, of Menacnum. It is

situated on a lofty hill, forming part of a range

which sweeps round from Falagonia to Caltagirone,

and forms the boundary of a deep basin, in the

centre of which is a small plain, with the volcanic

like now called Logo di A'qflia, which is unques-

ti.>nably the ancient Lacus Palicorum. No ruins

are now extant at Mtnco; but the coins of Me-

roenum, which are numerous, though only of copper,

attest the consideration which it anciently en­

joyed. [E- H- B.]

COTS OF MEXAEKEM.

MEXA'PIA (MfKairia, Ptol. vi. 11. § 8), a

mull place in Bactriana in the immediate neigh-

fc.urhot<l of Eucratidia. It is probably the same

as that called Mksapila by Ammianus (xxiii.

6> [V-]

MEXA'PII, a people of North Gallia. In Caesar's

time (B. G. iv. 4) the Menapii were on both sides

of the lower Rhine, where they had arable farms,

buildings, and small towns. Tiie Usipetes and

and Tenctheri, who were Germans, being hard pressed

by the Suevi, came to the Rhine, surprised and mas­

sacred the Menapii on the east bank, and then cross-

inc over spent the winter on the west side, and lived

at free cost among the Menapii. The history of

these marauders is told elsewhere. [Usipetes.]

On tbe west side of the Rhine the Eburones were

the immediate neighbours of the Menapii (B. G.

vi. 5). and they were between the Menapii and the

Trtriri. The Menapii were protected by continuous

twinips and forests. On the south and on the coast

tbe lienapii bordered on the Morini. Caesar docs

a* state this distinctly; but he mentions the Me

a»fii (B. G. a. 4) among the Belgian confederates

ont to the Morini; and the Menapii were said to be

able to raise 7000 fighting men. As the Veneti

wujhl the aid of the Morini and Menapii in their war

«nh Caesar, we mast conclude that they had ships,

«r their aid would have been useless (B. G. iii. 9).

Caesar describes all Gallia as reduced to obedience

at tbe close of the summer of B. c. 56, except the

Mtrini and Menapii (B. G. iii. 28), who were pro­

tected agunst the Roman general for this season by

thrtr i.rt«u and the bad weather. The next year

(a. c 55), iamiediately before sailing for Britannia,

Caesar sent two of his legati to invade the country

of the Menapii and those Pagi of the Morini which

had not made their submission (B. G. iv. 22).

After his return from Britannia Caesar sent La-

bienus against the Morini with the legions which

had been brought back from Britannia. The summer

had been dry, and as the marshes did not protect

the Morini, as in the year before, most of them were

compelled to yield. The troops which had been

sent against the Menapii under the two legati ra­

vaged the lands, destroyed the corn, and burnt the

houses; but the people fled to the thickets of their

forests, and saved themselves from their cruel enemy.

(B. G. iv. 38.)

In b. c. 53 Caesar himself entered the country

of the Menapii with five legions unincumbered with

bassrage. The Menapii were the only Galli who had

never sent ambassadors to Caesar about peace, and

they were allies of Ambiorix, king of the Eburones,

Caesar's enemy. Trusting to the natural protection

of their country, the Menapii did not combine their

forces, but fled to the forests and marshes, carrying

their property with them. Caesar entered their

country with his army in three divisions, after

having with great rapidity made his bridges over

the rivers, but he does not mention any names. The

buildings and villages were burnt, and a great

number of cattle and men were captured. The Me­

napii prayed for peace, gave hostages, and were told

that their hostages would be put to death, if they

allowed Ambiorix to come within their borders.

With this threat Caesar quitted the country that ho

had ravaged, leaving Conim the Atrebat, one of his

slavish Gallic tools, with a body of cavalry to keep

watch over the Menapii. (B. G. vi. 5, 6.)

It appears from Caesar's narrative that this people

had farms.arablcUnd.and cattle; and probably ships.

They wero not savages, but a people with some

civility. Caesar's narrative also leads us to infer

that the Menapii on the coast bordered on the Morini,

as Strabo (iv. pp. 194, 199) says. Pliny (iv. 17) also

makes the Menapii and Morini conterminous on tho

coast, but he makes the Scaldis (Scheldt) tho

northern limit of the Menapii; and he places the

Toxandri north of the Schelde. D'Anville (Notice,

<fc., Strrii) attempts to show, against the authority

of the ancient writers, that the Nervii extended to

the coast, and consequently were between the Morini

and the Menapii. But it is here assumed as proved

that the Morini on the coast bordered on the Menapii,

who in Caesar'* time at least extended along the

coast from the northern boundary of the Morini

to the territory of the Batavi. [Batavokum

Insula.] ,

Walckenacr proves, as he supposes, that the river

Aas, from its source to its outlet, was the boundary

between the Morini and the Menapii. Tho Au» is

the dull stream which flows by St. Oiner, and is

made navigable to Grarelints. Accordingly ho

makes the hill of Cause I, which is east of the A m,

to be the Castellum Menapiorum of the Table. This

question is examined under Castellum Mom-

NOHUM. The boundary on the coast between tho

Morini and Menapii is unknown, but it may, per­

haps, have been as far north as fltmienpie. As the

Eburones about Tongern and Spa were the neigh­

bours of the Menapii of Caesar on the east, wo

obtain a limit of the Menapii in that direction. On

the north their botmdnry was the Rhine; and on tho

south the Nervii. Under Augustus some German

peoples, Ubii, Sicambri [Guokbsi], and others,

