THERAE AEGYl'TL 1141 THKBAE AKGYPTI.

f tbe kings,"— whose sculptures so copiously illus-

»:< the history, the arts, and the social life of

\f;jyt On this side there are also the remains

( temples, palaces, and halls of assembly or judi-

atore, with their vast enclosure of walls and their

<v avenues of sphinxes. But the western quarter

( Tbebts was reserved principally for the dead,

rii t.<r the service of religion and the state, while

:t mass of the population was contained in the

tttmi. Yet the numbers who inhabited the western

lip i>f the city must have been considerable, since

*l temple had its own establishment of priests,  
a«i each palace or public edifice its proper officers

! servants. Still we shall probably be correct in

scribing the eastern quarter as the civil, and tbe

«Merti as the royal and ecclesiastical, portion of

bebea. At present no obelisks have been discovered

Il>e western quarter, but, with this exception, the

i iments of Govrnth and Mcdmet-Aboo yield

:tW ia grandeur, beauty, or interest to those of

i.tt and Karnak, and in one res[«ct indeed are

- more important of the two, since they afford the  
it existing specimens of Aegyptian colossal or

limit statues.

Be-inning then with the western quarter,—the

rT.mioeia of the Ptolemaic times,—we find at the

irtSern limit of the plain, about three quarters of

n.J« from the river, tbe remains of a building to

»h I'lompoilion has given the name of Maieph-

'»'«, because the name of Setei-Menephtbah is in-

r -tJ upon its walla. It appears to have been both

temple and a palace, and was approached by a

fi«* of 128 feet in length. Its pillars belong

t.-.e oldest style of Aegyptian architecture, and

baa-rebels are singularly fine.

The next remarkable ruin U the Memnoneium of

rshu (xvii. p. 728), the tomb of Osyniandyas of

•i'U-aa, now commonly called the Rameteion on

- atitb'jrity of its sculptures. The situation, the  
teat, and the beauty of this relic of Thebes are

tquallv striking. It occupies the first base of

bills, as they rise from the phi in; and before the

inal mil had encroached on the lower ground, it

at have been even a more conspicuous object from

p city titan it now appears. The inequalities of

fnnind ou which it was erected were overcome

flirbte of steps from one court to another, and

- ICuvusrwH actually stood on a succession of na­  
il terraces improved by art. The main entrance

tv ihe city ia flanked by two pyramidal lowers:

■ first court is open to the sky, surrounded by

d.eiUe colonnade, and WO feet in length and

n breadth. On the left of the staircase

•- ascends to the second court still stands the

«tsj of tbe statue of lUiiiesea, the largest, ac-

lujjf to Diodorus (i. 49), of the colossi of Aegypt.

n liie dimensions of its foot, pails of which still

ausx, it ia calculated that this statnc was 54 feet

hr\|rlit and 22 feet 4 inches in breadth across

> Louidcrs. The court is strewn with its trug-

tt*. How it was erected, or how overthrown

* Und not liable to earthquakes, are alike subjects  
w.-nder; since, without uiecbaiiical aids wholly

> fisl the reach of barbarians, it must have been

has* m difficult to cast it down from its pedestal

to transport it originally from the quarries.

• valla of the second court are covered with

area representing the wars of ltameses III., a

uatiurt and complement of the historical groups

*. the interior walls of the pylon. Diodorus  
47) iptaJu of "mouolitluU figures, 1G cubits

high, supplying the place of columns," and therm

are probably the pillars of this second court. He

also mentions the attack of a city surrounded by a

river; and this group of sculpture, still extant, iden­

tifies the Memnoneium with the monument of Osy-

mandyas. A third flight of stairs conducts from

the court to a hall, which, according toChampollion

was used for public assemblies. A sitting statue of

Barneses flanked each side of ihe steps, and the

head of one of them, now called the young Memnon

adonis the British Museum. The columns and walls

of the court are covered with sculptures partly of a

religious, partly of a civil character, representing the

homage of the 23 sons of Kameses to their parent

and his offerings to the gods. Nine smaller apart­

ments succeed to the hall. One of these was d«uU-

less the library or ** Dispensary of the Mind"

(t^X^5 tarrpuov) of which Diodorus (i. 49) speaks,

since in it are found sculptures of Thoth, the inven­

tor of letters, and his companion Saf, the "lady of

letters " and 44 President of the Hall of Books." This

chamber had also at one time an astronomical ceil­

ing adorned with the figures or symbols of the-

Aegyptian months; but it was carried off by the

Persians, and the Greek travellers, Diodorus,

Hecataeos &c, knew of it only from hearsay. Of

the nine original chambers, two only remain, the

one just described, and a second, in which Iian;c&cs

is depicted sacrificing to various divinities of the

Theben Pantheon. Beneath the upper portion of

the Memnoneium rock-sepulchres at.d brick graves

have been discovered, both coeval with the liamo-

seian dynasty (Lepsius, Rev. Arch. Jan. 1845).

The entire area of the Memnoneium was enclosed by

a brick wall, in the double arches of which are occa­

sionally imbedded fragments of still more ancient

structures, the remains probably of the Thebes

which the 18th dynasty of the Pharaohs enlarged

and adorned. A drotnos NW. of the Memnoneium,

formed of not less than 200 sphinxes, and at least

1600 feet in length, led to a very ancient temple in

a recess of the Libyan hills. This was probably a

place of strength before the lowlands on each side

of the Nile were artificially converted by drainage

and masonry into the solid area upon which Thebes

was built

The next object which meets the traveller's eye U

a mound of rubbish, the fragments of a building one*

occupying the ground. It is called by the Arabs

Koum-cUlIattam, or mountain of sandstone, and is

composed of the ruins of the Amenopheion, the palace

or temple of Amunoph HI.—the Memnon of the

Greeks. About a quarter of a mile distant from tbe

Amenophcion, atid nearer to the Nile, are the two

colossal statues called Tama and Ckaitia by the

natives, standing isolated ou the plain and eminent

above it. The most northerly of these statues is the

celebrated vocal Memnon. Their present isolation,

however, is probably accidental, and arises from the

subsidence or destruction of an intermediate droinos,

of which they formed the portals, and which led to

the Ainenopheion. These btatues have already been

described in the Dictionary of Biography, t. v. M i ii-

HON [Vol. II. p. 1028.] It may be added here that

the present height of these colossal figures, inclu­

sive of the peJestal, is 60 feet. The alluvial toil,

however, rises to nearly one half of the pedestal, and

as there is an inscription of tbe age ot' Antoninus

Pius, A. d. 139, foil., i. e. about 1720 years old, we

obtain some measure of the amount of de]io>i(i<>n

in so many centuries. The blocks from which

4 i> 3

