SCYTHIA. SCYTHIA. 937

fiat opon which Strabo enlarges (vii. 3. §§ 7,8).

tin ut Hsinaxobii (ir iwi)yats 0U1' fxon-ei), and

Aeschylus mentions them as tCvofxut. Tlie

,v*mt simplicity of their milk-drinking habits

((Lrni the credit of being men of mild and inno-

-t\ ippetil«5 with Ephorus (Strab. vii. p. 302), who  
r:svti them with the cannibal Sarmatae. There

uik> u apparent confusion arising out of the

[•:»* of SiiuJts to N6utoi (from ro)u>i - law).

v Fnmetbetu of Aeschylus is bound to one of

i radu of Caucasus, on the distant border of the

rti, sod tbe inaccessible desert of the Scythians.

>i'3 tie the Scythae of Aeschylus and Hesiod.

* writers of the interval, who knew them as the  
>in of Asia, and aa historical agents, must have

. wry different notion of them. Fragmentary

2» a» to the evils inflicted during their inroads

> u found in Callinus, Arch i loch us, &c. The

»f them, however, belongs to the criticism of

iiiitoriral portion of the account of

TtAxs-DAsr/BLAX Scythians op Herodotus:

»u/ti: SrrniiAns or Hippocrates.—Much

IV Uerodotean history is simple legend. The

itory of an intermarriage of the females

■. whilst their husbands were in Asia, were left

u*l *ith the slaves, and of the rebellion therein

:uiing having been put down by the exhibition,

j*rt of the returning masters, of the whips

k vaica the backs of the rebels had been prc-

»h bat too familiar, belongs to tho Herodotean

iijm (iv. l—6). So do the myths concerning

nriti of the nation, four in number, which may

floated aa follows:—

■ 7k Account of the Scythians themsehet.—

'a to the effect that Targitaus, the son of Zeus

i daughter of the river Borysthenes, was the

a* sf Leiocusau, Arpoxais, and CoUxais. In

'Ufa, there fell from heaven a yoke, an axe

l*#»), » plough-share, and a enp, all of gold,

tvnelder failed in taking them up; for they

'• »uen they approached them. But the younger

ft* fail ; and ruled accordingly. From Lei-

» descended the Auchaetae (7«Voi) ■ from Ar-

-> the Catiari and Traspies; from Colaxais  
I'inlatai. Tbe general name for all is " Sco-

* l*m the Greeks call Scythae." This was  
3* 1000 years before the invasion of Darius,

feki vm sacred; the country large. It ex-

<l m far north that the continual fall of feathers

'I prevented things from being seen. The

cf the kingdoms was three, the greatest of

l Usui charge of the gold. Of this legend, the

■*> astro partly Scythian, and partly due to

ewatry in which the Scythians settled. The

it tntn the Borysthenes belongs to this latter

The story of the sons of Targitaus is found,

1 rcaia features, amongst the present Tartars.

*vi'-»tu more than one commentator has found

* Twk. The threefold division reminds us  
•j-at. Middle, and Little Hordes of the A'ir-

snl u must be observed that the words yreat-

ii niddie (uryiorn and- fuffw) are found in

rraiotean account. They may be more tech-

uw detiiiite than is generally imagined. In

there ia no Epuuymus, no Scytha, or

There is also the statement that

^liusns are the youngest of all nations. This

i c.'ii be, aa immigrants.

The Aeammt of Ike Pontic Greeks.—1\m is to

f-: titat Agatbyrsus, Gelonus, and Scythes

t) were the sons of Hercules and

Kcliidna, the place- where they met being the Hylsea-

The son that could draw the bow was to rule. This

was Scythes, owing to manoeuvres of his mother.

He stayed in the land: the others went cnt. The

ctip appears here as an emblem of authority.

3. The Second Greek Account—This is historical

rather than mythological. The Massagetae press

the Scythians upon the Cimmerii, the latter flying

before them into Asia. This connects the history

of the parts about the Bosporus with Medio. The

inference from the distribution of the signs of Cim­

merian occupancy confirms this account. There

were the burial-places of tbe Cimmerii on the Tyras;

there was the Cimmerian Bosporus, and between

them, with Cimmerian walls, Scythia (>) 2in/fiicV)).

This is strong evidence in favour of Scythian ex­

tension and Cimmerian preoccupancy.

4. The Account of Aritteas of Proconncsus.—

This is a speculation rather than either a legend or a

piece of history. Aristeas (Mure, History of Greek

Literature, vol. ii. 469, seq.) visited the country

of the Issedones. North of these lay tlie Ari-

maspi; north of the Arimaspi the Monophthalmi;

north of the Monophthalmi the Gold-guarding Grif­

fins (rpuwer xpoffo^aAoxoi); and north of these, the

Hyperborei. The Hyperborei made no movements;

but the Griffins drove the Monophthalmi, the Mono­

phthalmi the Arimaspi, the Ariinas):i the Issedones,

the Issedones the Scythians, the Scythians the Cim­

merians, the Cimmerians having to leave their land;

but they, as we learn elsewhere, attack the Medes.

(Herod, iv. 5—16). No one had ever been further

north than Aristcas, an unsafe authority. The in­

formation of Herodotus himself is chiefly that of the

Greeks of the Borysthenes. He mentions, however,

conversations with the steward of one of the Scythian

kings.

The Emporium of the Borystheneitae was central

to the Scythia of the sea-coast. In the direction of

the Hypanis, i. e. west and north-west, tho order

of the population was as follows: the Callipidao

and Alazones ("EAAnvcs invOai), sowers and con­

sumers of com; to the north of whom lay the

Scythae Aroteres, not only sowers of com, but sel­

lers of it; to the north of these the Neuri; to the

north of the Neuri cither a desert or a terra incog­

nita (iv. 17, 18.) The physical geography helps

us here. The nearer we approach the most fertile

province of Modern Russia, Podolia, wherein wo

place the Scythae Aroteres, the more the Scythian

character becomes agricultural. The Hellenes Scy­

thae (Callipidae and Alazones) belong more to

Kherson. That the Hellenes Scythae were either a

mixed race, or Scythicised Greeks, is unlikely. Tho

doctrine of tho present writer is as follows: seeing

that they appear in two localities (viz. the Govern­

ments of Kherson and Caucasus); seeing that in

each of these the populations of the later and more

historical periods arc Aluni (Ptolemy's form for tlioso

of Kherson is Alauni); seeing that even the Aluni

of Caucasus are by one writer at least called dAidi-

cmi 'AAaDpot; seeing that the root AAa* might have

two plurals, one in -ut and one in -cf, he ends in

seeing in tlie Hellenic Scythians simply certain Scy­

thians of the Alan name. Neither does be doubt

about Geloni being the same word,—forms like Chuni

and Hunni, Arpi and Carpi being found for these

parts. At any rate, tbe locality for the Callipidae

and Alazones suits that of Ptolemy'B Alauni, whilst

that of tlie Scythian Greeks and Geloni of Caucasus

suits that of the Alans of the fourth and fifth centuries.

