INDIA. 47 rNDIA.

on the E. coast rf the Golden Chersonestu. (in the

oeisrhl>oarhood of Malacca); Taenia (perliaps Taxai

or Tatoy); Triglyphon, in the district of the Cyrrha-

diae, »t the month of the Brahmaputra (now Tiperah

or Tripura); and Cattipara, the exact position of

which has been much disputed among geographers,

but which Lassen has placed conjectural])- in Borneo*

Northward of Triglyphon are a number of small dis­

tricts, shoot which nothing certain is known, as

Chalcitis, Basanarae, Cacobte, and Aminacbae, the

ladraprathae, and Iberiogae; and to the W., along

the swamp-land at the foot of the Himdlaya chain,

are the Tiladae, Passalae,Corancali,nnd the Tacaraei.

All the abore may be considered as belonging to

India extra Gangem.

Again, from the line of coast from E. to W., the

first people along the western months of the Ganges

are called the Gangaridae, with their chief town

Gange (in the neighbourhood of the modern Cal­

cutta); the Calingae, with their chief towns Par­

tialis and Dandagula (the latter probably Calina-

paltana, about halfway between Mahunadi and

Goddvan); the Maesoli and Maesolia, occupying

nearly the same range of coast as that now called

tie Ctrcart, with the capital Pitynda, and Conta-

csssyla (MatuUpattana t) and Alosygna on the sea-

eosst; W. of the Maesolns (Goddvari), the Arrarni,

with the chief town Malanga (probably Manda-

riaja, the present Madraiy Then follow the So-

ringi and Bati, till we come to the land of Pandion

(IliuoWor x»pa), which extends to the southern

extremity of the peninsula of Jlindustdn, and was a

district of great wealth and importance at the time

of the Periplus. (PeripL pp. 31, 33.) There can

be no doubt that the land of Pandion is the same as

the Indian Pdndja, and its capital Modura the

praent Mathura. Within the same district were

Argara (whence the S. Argaricus derives its name),

the Carci, and the Colchi. At the SW. end of the

peninsula were Cot tiara (Cochin), and Comaria,

whence the promontory Comoria derives its name.

Following the western coast, we arrive at Limyrica

(PeripL pp. 30, 36), undoubtedly in the neighbour­

hood of Manoalore, with its chief towns Carura

(most likely Coimbatort, where a great quantity of

Roman coin* have been dug up during the last fifteen

yean) and Tyndia (in the neighbourhood of Goa);

aod then Mosopale, Nitrae, and Mandagara; all places

on the sea-coast, or at no great distance from it.

Somewhat further inland, within the district known

genetically at the time of the Periplus by the name

of Dachinahades (Dakhmabhada, or Deccan), was

the district of Ariaca ('Af iaxa 2a5araw, Ptol. vii.

1. §§ 6, 82: cf. PeripL p. 30), with its chief town

UiuDacara(A*ai«oVra or Hydrabad,\( not,asRitter has

imagined,the sea-port Mangalore); Baetana, Simylla

(on the coast near Boutin), Omenagara (undoubtedly

the celebrated fortress Akmed-nagar), and Tagara

(PeripL p. 19), the present Dtoghir. Further N.,

tie rich commercial state of Larice appears to have

•xlended from the Namadus (Narmadd or Ner-

hidaVi) to Barygaxa (Beroach) and the Gulf of

Camtom. Its chief town was, in Ptolemy's time,

Ozene (Ovjein or Ujjayini), a place well known to

the antiquaries of India for the vast numbers of the

earliest Indian coinage constantly found among its

rains; Muinagara, the position of which is doubtful,

•ad Barygaza, the chief emporium of the commerce

of Western India, North of Larice was Syrastrene

(oWuttatm), to the west of the Gulf of Cambay;

ud still farther to the westward, at the mouths of

the Indus, Pattalene (Lower Scinde, and the neigh­

bourhood of Karachi), with its capital Pattala

(Potala.)

It is much more difficult to determine the exact

site of the various tribes and nations mentioned in

ancient authors as existing in the interior of the

country, than it is to ascertain the corresponding

modern localities of those which occupied the sea-

coast. Some, however, of them can be made out

with sufficient certainty, by comparison of their

classical names with the Sanscrit records, and in

some instances with the modern native appellations.

Following, then, the course of the Indus northwards,

we find, at least in the times of Ptolemy and of the

Periplus, a wide-spread race of Scythian origin, occu­

pying both banks of the river, in a district called,

from them, Imdo-Scythia. The exact limits of

their country cannot now he traced; but it is pro­

bable that they extended from Pattalene on the S.

as far as the lower ranges of the Hindu-Kuah, — in

fact, that their empire swayed over the whole of

modern Scinde and the Punjab; a view which is

borne out by the extensive remains of their Topes

and coinage, which are found throughout these dis­

tricts, and especially to the northward, near the head

waters of the three western of the Five Rivers. A

great change had no doubt taken place by the suc­

cessful invasion of a great horde of Scythians to­

wards the close of the second century B. c, as tbey

are known to havo overthrown the Greek kingdom of

Bactriana, at the same time effacing many of the

names of the tribes whom Alexander had met with

two centuries before, such as the Aspasii, Assa-

ceni, Massiani, Hipposii; with the towns of Aca-

dera, Daedala, Massaga, and Embolinia, which are

preserved in Arrian, and others of Alexander's his­

torians.

Further N., along the bases of the Paropamisus,

Imaus, and Emodus, in the direction from W. to

E., we find mention of the Sampatae, the district

Suastene (now Sewad), and Goryaea, with the

towns Gorya and Dionysopolis, or Nagara (now

Nagar); and further E., between the Suastus and

the Indus, the Gandarae (one, doubtless, of the ori­

ginal seats of the Gandhdrat). Following the

mountain range to the E., we come to Caspiria (now

Cashmir, in earlier times known, as we have seen,

to Herodotus, under the name of Caspatyrns). South­

ward of Cathmir was the territory of Yarsa, with its

capital Taxila, a place of importance so early as the

time of Alexander (Arrian, v. 8), and probably indi­

cated now by the extensive remains of Manikydlu

(Burucs, Travels, vol. i. p. 65), if, indeed, these are

not too much to the eastward. A little further S.

was the land of Pandous (Tlavouou x^po, doubtless

the representative of one of the Pandava dynasties of

early Hindu history), during the time of Alexander

the territory of the king Porus. Further eastward

were the state Cylindrine, with the sources of the

Sutledge, Jumna, and Ganges; and the Gangani,

whose territory extended into the highest range of

the Himalaya.

Many small states and towns are mentioned in the

historians of Alexander's campaigns along the upper

Panjub, which we cannot here do more than glance at,

as i\'Uce\nolia(Puslckaldvati), Nicaea,Buccphala, the

Glaucanitae, and the Sibae or Sibi. Following next the

course of the Ganges, we meet with the Daetichae, the

Nanichae, Pratdaca; and the Mandalac, with its cele­

brated capital Pa!ibothra(beyond nil doubt the present

Pdtaliputra. or Patna), situated at the junction of

