NISYBUS 441 NITBIAE.

i f OS; Sffk. B. ». r.) It mlso bore the name of

trfcrt, <■ mount of its rocks of porphyry. The

uia > itoal circular, and ia only 80 stadia in

•.i=afffwft; it ia aaid to have been formed by

! *mU, with bii trident, knocking off a portion of

i i. ui throwing it upon the giant Polybotes.

\nS.i.p.tV' L 6. §2: Paus. i. 2. §4;

iwai.tdDim.Pmrg. 530, ad Horn. 11. ii. 676.)

i ■. a>i is svidretly of volcanic origin, and was

fTtflwUr funned by volcanic eruptions of lava from

i niter, which in the end collapsed, leaving

• xi top i kit itnngly impregnated with sulphur.

TW htfbnt mooctain in the north-western part is

If / a«t m height; another, a little to the north-

■j.-. j 1«00. sad a third in the south is 1700 feet

Bjl Tht hot springs of Nisyrus were known to

-»I'mn'j, u veil as its quarries of millstones  
at ill exelkat wine. The island has no good

»>nr;h>t mar its north-western extremity it had,

ainiiau, • tolerable roadstead, and there, on a

asd bn, was situated the town of Nisyrus. The

■at aotk still occupied by a little town, at a dis-

nr^tbat JO minutes' walk from which there are

remnants of the ancient acropolis,

of mijhty walls of black trachyte, with

•a** sftoj and gates. From the acropolis two

wsia na down towards the sea, so as to embrace

&f.»*town, which waa built in terraces on the

■p a*tht ML Of the town itself, which possessed

»»*>• ofPoseidon, very little now remains. On

at sat si the town is a plain, which anciently was

• an mi was separated from the sea by a dike, of

aa aaaaraaa remains are still seen. The hot

SB (baaa) still exist at a distance of about

'a or i walk riat of the town. Stephanus B.

kv 1 aettsaw another small town in the south-west

'awra, tailed Argos, which still exists under its

• ■' - ' a:. J irj ti.c nri^lilnmi'liiKA of which

apaa are constantly issuing from a chasm in

■ BO.

** wnrds the history of Nisyrus, it is said ori-  
<* have been inhabited by Carians, until

■**•, a aa of Heracles, occupied the island

■atZanaas, who were governed by the kings

*» (Osatv. M; Horn. II ii. 676.) It is pos-

■ aa, (fur Agamemnon's return from Troy,

■ aalffj in the inland, aa they did in Calymnus,

■•aid account for the name of Argue occurring

•lava; Herodotus (vii. 99), moreover, calls

UofKisyrusEpidaurians. Subsequently

hat aaat of its inhabitants during repeated

*v tut the population was restored by in­  
fra Cos and Khodes settling in it. During

•'"'as War, Nisyrus, together with Cos and

^■as. was governed by queen Artemisia (Herod,

tt la the tine of the Peloponnesian War it be-

:. u» tributary allies of Athens, to which it

»(«v loo drachmae every month: subsequently

l^shevsrtorajqa Lacedaemonians; but after the

an I Caidoa, m. c. 39*, Conon induced it to

J* wa» Sparta. (Diod. xiw. 84.) At a later

fc a »■> It a tune pmbably governed by the

|aa» a* Ecypt. Throughout the historical

■a u» iahaktants of Nisynis were Dorians; a

''waa a attested by the inscriptions found

P aaai, all of which are composed in the Doric

jac Aa excellent account of Nisyrus, which still

■ :. \i(7tpor <■> Kicv^a. is found

Has, itmr* auf dm Griech. /rutin, vol. ii.

[L.S.]

»lawn in tlie L=bnd of Caiuwtiius.

NITAZI {It Ant. p. 144), NlTAXO (Geogr. Rav.

ii. 17; Tab. Peut.), or Nitalis (It. Bieros. p. 576), a

town in Cappadocia, on the road between Mocissus

and Archelais, but its site is uncertain. [L. S.J

N1TIOBKIGES (NiWutyryci), a people of Aqui-

tania. In Pliny (iv. 19) the name Antobroges

occurs: "rursus Narbonensi provineiae con termini

Ruteni, Cadurci, Antobroges, Tarneque amne discreti

a Tolosanis Pctrocori." Tliere is no duubt that

Antobroges is an error, and that the true reading is

Nitiobroges or Kitiobriges. The termination briges

appears to be the same as that of the word Alio

broges. The chief town of the Nitiobriges, Aginnum

(Agen), is mentioned by Ptolemy (ii. 7. § 4), who

places them next to the Pctrocorii on one side, and

to the Vasatii on the other. Strabo enumerates

them between the Cadurci and the Petrocorii (Strafe

iv. p. 190): "the Petrocorii, and next to them the

Nitiobriges, and Cadurci, and the Bituriges, who ait

named Cubi." The position of the ISitiobriges i.s

determined by these facts and by the site of

Aginnum, to be on the Garonne, west of the Cadurci

and south of the Petrocorii. D'Anville makes their

territory extend beyond the then limits of the diocese

of Agen, and into the diocese of Condom.

When Caesar (B. G. vii. 46) surprised the Galli

in their encampment on the hill which is connected

with the plateau of Gergovia, Teutomatus king of

the Nitiobriges narrowly escaped being made pri­

soner. The element Teut in this king's name is tho

name of a Gallic deity, whom some authorities suppose

to be the Gallic Mercurius ('.actant. De JalsuJielig.

i. 21; and the Schol. on Lucan, i. -I •,."». ed. Ouden-

dorp). Others have observed that it is the same

element as Teut in the Teutonic language, and as

Dim, from whom the Galli pretended to spring (Pel-

kratier, Hist, des Celtes, Liv. i. c. 14). The Nitio-

briges sent 5000 men to the relief of Alesia when it

was blockaded by Caesar (B. G. vii. 75). [G. L.]

N1TRA (Nirpa), a place which Ptolemy calls

an ipxupiov, on the W. coast of Hindostdn, in the

province of Limyrica. There can be no doubt that

it is the same as that called by Pliny Nitrias (vi

23. s. 26), which he states was held by a colony of

pirates. The author of the Periplus speaks of a place,

in this immediate neighbourhood, named ISaura,

and which is, in all probability, the same as Kitrae.

(Periph Mar. Erythr. § 58, ed. Miiller.) It is

mobt likely the present Ilonaver. [V.]

NITBIAE (NiTpfa., Strab. xvii. p. 803; Sozomen,

H. aE.Ti.31; SocraU li. E. iv. 23; Steph. B.#. ».;Nl-

rptanat, Ptol. W. 5. §25; Nitrariae, Plin. xxxi. 10. s.

16: Eth. fiirplrr}s and NiTpuirrTjj), the Natron Lakes

(Birket-el-Duarak)t were six in number, lying in a

valley SW. of the Aegyptian Delta. The valley, which

is bounded by the limestone terrace which skins t L

edge of the Delta, runs in a NW. direction for about

12 miles. The sands which stretch around these

lakes were formerly the bed of the sea, and were

strongly impregnated with saline matter, e. g. mu­

riate, sulphate, and carbonate of soda. lUin, though

rare in Aegypt, falls in this region during tho

months of December, January, and February; and,

con>equently, when the Nile is lowest, the lakes are

at high water. The salt with which the sands are

encrusted as with a thin coat of ice (Yitruv. viii. 3),

is carried by the rains into the lakes, and held there

in solution during the wet season. But in the sum­

mer months a strong evaporation takes place, and a

glaze or crust is deposited upon the surface and edges

of the water, which, when collected, is employed by

