1202 TIBUR. TIBUR.

it away when he deprived the rest of the muni­

cipal cities of it, with tlie exception of Anagnia

(Cio. pro Dovi. 30), hut it wu probably regained

on the abdication of tlie dictator. The treasure

deposited at Tibur in the temple of Hercules was

appropriated by Oct avian during his war against

Lucius Antonius, when so many other temples

were plundered at Rome and in its neighbourhood.

(App. It. C. v. 24.) From this period we have no

notices of Tibur till the time of the Gothic war

in the 6th century of oar era. During the siege of

Rome by Vitiges. Belisarius placed 500 men in it,

find afterwards garrisoned it with Isaurians. (Pro-

cop. Ji. G. ii. 4.) Rut under his successor Totjla a

party of the Tiburtines having introduced the Goths

by night into tlie city, the lsaurians fled, and the

Goths mnrdcred many of the inhabitants with or

eumstnnces of great cruelty (lb. iii. 10.) Great part

of tlie city must have been destroyed on this occasion

since it appears further on (c 24) that Totila having

relired to Tivoli, after a rain attempt upon Rome,

rebuilt the fortress.

At present there are but few traces of the boun­

daries of the ancient city; yet there are certain

points which, according to Nibby (l)intorm, iii. p.

186, seq.), enable us to determine the course of the

walls with some degree of accuracy, and thus to es­

timate it-* circumference, at all events during the

time of its subjection to the Romans. These points

are determined partly by tlie nature of the ground,

partly by existing remains, and partly by positive tes­

timony. The nature of the ledge upon which the town

is built shows that the walls must have traversed

the edge of it towards the N. and K.; and this as­

sumption is confirmed by some remains. The two

temples commonly known as those of the Sibyl and

of Druailla in tlie quarter called Castro Vetere, and

tin1 evident pains taken to isolate this part, indicate

it to have been the ancient acropolis or arx, and

probably the Sieelion of Pionysius. On the W. tlie

boundary is marked by some remains of the walls

and of the gate opening on the road to Rome, On

investigating ibis track, we find that it inclined

inwards towards the church of the AnnuruUita,

leaving out all that part now occupied by the Villa

dEite and its appurtenances. From that church it

proceeded towards the modern gate of Santa Croce

and the citadel built by 1'ope Pius II. on the site of

the ancient amphitheatre. Thence to the Anio

two points serve to fix the direction of the walls:

first, the church of S. Clcmetite, which was cer­

tainly outside of them, since, according to the

testimony of Marzi, some sepulchral stones were

discovered there; second, the church of S. Vm-

crnzo, which was certainly within them, as vestiges

of ancient baths may still be seen at that spot.

From the f >rtress of Pius II, the wall seems to have

proceeded in an almost direct line to the Anio be­

tween the church of S. Bartohnnmeo and the mo­

dern cate of S. Giovanni. It did not extend to the

opposite bank, as a small sepulchre of the imperial

times has recently been discovered there, at the spot

where the tunnel for diverting the Anio was opened;

w here al>o were found remains of an ancient bridge.

Thus the plan of the city, with the abatement of

some irregularities, formed two trapeziums joined

together at their smallest sides. The arx also

t 'lmed a tra|>ezium completely isolated, and was

connected with the town by a bridge on the same

pile as the present one of S. Martitio. The cir­

cumference of the city, including the arx, was about

8000 Roman feet, or 1J miles. The

wall which still exist are of three difcw. mm

The rarest and most ancient consl-t et tnpaibj

masses. Others, near the Porta Rtmm* c

ColU, are of opus incertam, and belong tttbasi

of Sulla. The gate itself, though coapandd' «s»

drilateral masses, is of the style of the ran i

Rome of the age of Justinian. Fran tbtuftai'

the place and the direction of the sua ssfc

Tibur must have had five gates; nunelT, ism to­

wards the \V., one towards tbe S., sod gm isssi

the £., without counting that which comaiHKSsi

with the citadel; but with the exeeptkn of utfc

atina, where the aqueduct called A cio Ve* be*

their names are unknown, and even with n£W>

that the reading is doubtful. (Front. .-If d *«i

The ancient remains existing at TimM,**)

them by tlie names under which tbry

pass, are, the temple and portico of Hercaiaoi

temples of Vesta and Sibylla, tbe therms* «

the two bridges and the 111tie tomb recHtth"

vered, the temple of Tussis, the riUss of

of Varus, &c.

Tibur was famed for tbe worship of HrmHsi

hence the epithet of Herculean, so freqasi**•

plied to it br the Roman poets (Pros, it SI h s»

It. ir. il4; Msrt i. 13. 1, &c; cf. Stst Ski.

1. 183.) Tbe temple of that demigod st

with tbe exception of the vast temple of Farisa* 1

Praeneste, the most remarkable presented * <

city in the neigbourhood of Rone. Tits aa

(£. c.) mentions tlie Heracle-um and tb* witasi

tbe distinguishing features of Tibur, jat si

alludes to the temple of' Fortune is the

object at Praeneste. And Juvenal (an*, st,

censures the extravagance of Cetrooios is

by 6aying that his villas at Tibur sod"

outdid the fanes of Hercules and Fortooe si

places. The name of Heracleom used by

the former, as well as the term Tc^rwifsjsst

it by Stephanas Byzantinus, show that it

a large tract of ground, and as Augustas

have frequently administered jnslkr in its

(Suet. Oct 72), they must have beet of

size. It possessed a library, which,'

time of the Antonines appears to ban

decay. (A. Gell. A' A. xix. 5.) We la

seen that it had a treasury. There wm

oracle, which, like that at Praeneste, g*n

by means of sortes. (Stat. Sil*. L 3.

antiquaries seek this vast temple besasf

bune of tbe present cathedral, where tlsst

remains of a circular cella competed of

of a rbomboidal shape, thus narks*, tsf

sition in the mode of building »hxfc

about tlie age of Augustus from tb*

to the opus retieulatum. But it was*1 se

to regard these vestiges as forming part oft

150 feet in circumference; dot ws* it ■■■

the principal Christian church oa tbe

a heathen temple. Nibby therefore (/'

193), after a careful investigation,and s

of the remains at Palestruta with taa*

called villa of Maecenas at TitoO, ■ s

gard the latter, which will be described

as belonging to the celebrated tempk «f

It is probable, however, that there

plea to that deity at Tibur. just as tsere

Rome, The principal one wa* doubtse*

cated to Hercules Victor Tiburs; bat tsa

one of Hercules Saxanus, which will be

