14B LAURENTUM. LAVINIUM.

ceived a fresh colony, which for a short time raised

it again to a degree of prosperity. On this occasion

it would appear that the Laurentines and Lnvinians

were united into one community, which assumed

the name of Lauro-Lavotxum, and the citizens

that of Laurentes Lavinates, names which

from henceforth occur frequently in inscriptions.

As a tribute to its ancient sacred character, though

a fresh apj>ortionment of lands necessarily attended

the establishment of this colony, the territory still

retained its old limits and regulations (lege et con-

tecratione vekri manet, Lib. Colon, p. 234.) This

union of the two communities into one has given

rise to much confusion and misconception. Nor

can we trace exactly tlio mude in which it was ef­

fected : but it would appear that Lavinium becamo

the chief town, while the " populus " continued to be

often called that of the Laurentes, though more

correctly designated as that of tho Laurentes Lavi­

nates. The effect of this confusion is apparent in

the commentary of Servius on the Aeneid, who

evidently confounded the Laurentum of Virgil with

the Lauro-Lavinium of his own day, and thence,

strangely enough, identities it with the Lavinium

founded as the same city. (Serv. ad Aen. i. 2.)

Uut, even at a much earlier period, it would seem

ns if the " ager Laurens,'' or Laurentine territory,

was regarded as comprising Lavinium; and it is

certainly described as extending to the river Numi-

cius, which was situated between Lavinium and

Ardea. [Ntnuciva.] Inscriptions discovered at

Praiica enable us to trace the existence of this

new colony, or revived Lavinium, down to the end

of the 4th century; and its name is found also in

the Itineraries and the Tabula, (/tin. Ant. p. 301;

Tab. Peut.; Orell. Inter. 1063,2179,3218. 3921.)

We learn also from a letter of Symnutchus that it

was still subsisting as a municipal town as late as

a. D. 391, and still retained its ancient religious

character. Macrobius also informs us that in his

time it was still customary for the Kotnan consuls

and praetors, when entering on their office, to repair

to Lavinium to offer certain sacrifices there to Vesta

and the Pcnatea,—a custom which appears to have

been transmitted without interruption from a very

early period. (Macrob. Sat. ii. 4. § 11; Val. Max.

i. 6. §7; Symmach. Ep. i. 65.) The final decay

of Lavinium was probably produced by the fall of

paganism, and the consequent extinction of that

religious reverence which had apparently been the

principal means of its preservation for a long while

before.

The position of Lavinium at Praiica may be con­

sidered as clearly established, by the discovery there

of the numerous inscriptions already referred to re­

lating to Lauro-Lavinium : in other respects also

the site of Pratica agrees well with the data for that

of Lavinium, which is placed by Dionysius 24

stadia, or 3 miles, from the coast. (Dionys. i. 56.)

The Itineraries call it 16 miles from Rome; but this

statement is below the truth, the real distance being

little, if at all, less than 18 miles. The most direct

approach to it from Rome is by the Via Ardeatina,

from whence a side branch diverges soon after

pasting the Solfatara,—a spot supposed to be the site

of the celebrated grove and oracle of iaunus, referred

to by Virgil [Ahdea], which is about 4 miles from

Pratica. The site of this latter village, which still

possesses a baronial castle of the middle age*, re­

sembles those of most of the early Latin towns: it

is a nearly isolated hill, with a level summit of no

I great extent, bounded by wooded ravines, with i

I hanks of tufo rock. These banks hare probaMy

been on all sides more or less scarped or cut away

artificially, and some slight remains of the ancient

walls may be still traced in one or two places. Bc-

J sides the inscriptions already noticed, noma frag­

ments of marble columns remain from the Imperial

period, while broken pottery and terra cottaa of a

rude workmanship found scattered in the (will are

the only relics of an earlier age. (Nibby, DuiUrmi,

I voL ii. pp. 206—237.) [E. H. B-]

LAVISCO or LABISCO, in Gallia Narboneneis,

appears on a route from Mcdiolanum (,l/i/<in) throeru

Darar.tasin (Moutiert tn Tareniui&e) to Vienna ( I's-

enne) on the lihone. Lavisco is lietwecn Len.iDcu&i

(Lcmens, or Chambery au Mvnt lj-miw) ar.d A'J-

gustum (Aotte or Aoustr), and 14 M. P. from eath.

D'Anvillc supposes that lavisco was at the furd of

the little river Ltiute. near its source ; but the dis­

tance between Lcmincum and Au:;ustum, 28 M. P.

is too much, and accordingly he would alter the

figures in the two parts of this distance on em* h tiir

of Lavisco, from xiiii. to viiiL [G. L.J

LAUMELLUM (Aa»>«AAoi', Ptol. iiL 1. § 36:

Lomellv), a town of Gallia Transpadau, not mo­

tioned by Pliny, but placed by Ptolemy, together

with Vercellae, in the territory of the Libici. 1l>-

Itin. Ant. (pp. 282, 347) places it on the r aid from

Ticinum to Vercellae, at 22 M. P. fr>un the former

and 20 from the latter city: these distances acres-

well with the position of Lamella, a small town on

the right bank of the Affogna, about 10 mil™ from

I its confluence with the Po. According to the same

Itinerary (p. 340) another road led from thence by

Kigomagus and Quadratae to Augustae Taariiinruni.

and in accordance with this Ammianus Marcvllinu

(xv. 8. § 18) mentions Laumellum as an the direct

road from Ticinum to Taurini. It seems not to

have enjoyed municipal rank in the time of Pliny,

but apparently became a place of more consideration

in later days, and under the Lombard rule was a

, town of importance, as it continued during li'«

■ middle ages; so that, though now but a poor de-

| caved place, it still gives to the surrounding dss-

| trict the name of Lumcllina. [E. 11. U.]

LAUREATA, a place on the coast of Ualmatim.

which was taken by the traitor Ilaufns, fur Tuila

and the Goths, in A. D. 548. (Prueop. B. (J. iiL 35;

Le Beau, Bat Empire, voL ix. p. 182.) [E. fi J.]

LAURENTUM (Aoifosrvor, Strab. et aL; Aae-

ptrrir, Dion. Hal.: Etk. Aewptrrtms, Laurentinaa:

I Torre diPaUrnb),m ancient city of Latium. titsalni

near the sea-coast between CMia and Lavininm.

at<out 16 miles from Koine. It was repr**rnu>i by

the legendary history universally adopted by K 4i-»a

I writers as the ancient capital of Latium, and the

residence of king Latinus, at the timo. when Aei>^i»

and the Trojan colony landed in that country. Ail

writers also concur in representing the latter a* first

landing on the shores of the Laurentine trrrivey.

(Liv. i. 1; Dionys. i. 45, S3; Strab. v. p. SaW;

Appian. Horn. i. 1; Vict. Orig. tint. Bam. 13;

I Virg. ^en. vii. 45, &c.) But the same leceodary

history related that after the death of Latin us. the

seat of government was transferred first to Lavinium.

and subsequently tn Alba; hence we cannot wander

that, when Laurentum appears in historical time*, it

holds but a very subordinate place, an>l appears tn

have fallen at a very early period into a slate nf

'comparative insignificance. The hwtnrkal

[ of the city are indeed extremely few and scanty.

