MARATHON. 207 MARATHON.

M.VRATHON (Mapaduv: Kth. MapaB&iHos), a

small plain in the NE. of Attica, containing four

places, named Makatiiox, Probalinthls {TlpoSd-

Airtfos: Eth.Tlpo€a\t<rtos), TRicoRYTiits(Tp»e<i-

pv#at, or Tpuvopvvdor. Tpued^i^of: £/A. Tpucopv-

ffioi). and Oesok (Otrrf*: £fA. Olvmos), which

originally formed the Tetrapolis. one of the 12 dis­

tricts into which Attica was divided before the time

of Theseus. Here Xnthns, who married the daughter

of Erec lit bens, is said to have reigned; and here the

Heracleidae took refuge when driven out of Pelorwn-

n**Mis, and defeated Eurysthcus. (Strab. viii. p. 383:

Steplu B. *. r. TtrydwoKts.) The Marathonii claimed

to be the first people in Greece who paid divine ho­

nours to Hercnles, who possessed a sanctuary in the

plain, of which we shall speak presently. (Pans. i.

15. § 3, i- 35. § 4,) Marathon is also celebrated in

the legends of Thrseus, who conquered the ferocious

ball, which used to devastate the plain. (Pint. Thes.

14; Strah. is. p. 399: Pans. i. 27. § 10.) Marathon

is mentioned in the Homeric poems in a way that

imp!:** that it was then a place of importance. (Od.

vii. 80.) Its name was derived from an eponymous

hero Marathon, who is described by Pausamas as a

•on of Epopeus, king of Sicyon, who fled into Attica

in conse*juence of the cruelty of his father (Paus.

n. I- § I, ii. 6. § 5, i. 15. § 3, i. 32. § 4). Plu­

tarch calls him an Arcadian, who accompanied the

LH.*curi in their expedition into Attica, and volun­

tarily devoted himself to death before the battle.

{Tka. 32.)

After Theseus united the 12 independent districts

•f Attica into one state, the name of Tetrapolis

gradually fell infci disuse; and the four places of

which it consisted became Attic demi, — Mara­

thon. Tricorythus. and Oenoe belonging to the tribe

AeantU, and Probalinthus to the tribe Pandionis;

but Marathon was so superior tn the other three, that

its name was applied to the whole district down to

the latest times. Hence Luvian speaks of u the

parts of Marathon about Oencw" (MapaBwvos rd

wfpl t^f Oir6ijvy Icaro-Memp. 18).

Few places have obtained such celebrity in the

history of the world as Marathon, on account of the

victory which the Athenians here gained over the

Persians in b. c. 490. Hence it is necessary to give

a ik-toilcd account of the topography of the p'ain, in

which we Khali follow the admirable description of

Colonel Leake, drawing a little additional information^

from Mr. Finlay and other writers.

The plain of Marathon is open to a bay of the sea

on the east, and is shut in on the opposite side by

ths heights of Brilcssus (subsequently called Pente-

Lcu-v) and Diacria, which send forth roots extending

to the sea. and bounding the plain to the north and

aoath. The principal shelter of the bay is afforded

by a long rocky promontory to the north, anciently

called Cy?ro«CRA (Kvvfoovpa, Hesych.. Phot., *. r.)

xrwl now Stomi. The plain is about 6 miles in length

and half that breadth in its broadest part. It is

somewhat in the form of a half-moon, the inner

carve of which U bounded by the hay, and the outer

by the ranre of mountains already described. The

plain, d^cribed by Aristophanes as the "pleasant

end d( Marathon" (A#»/uuea rot- ip6(vra Mapa-

•*»*». Aers, 246), is a level green expanse. The

bat, which shot in the plain, were covered in an­

cient times with olives and vines (Nonn. Diovt/s.

xm. 84, xlviii. 18). The plain is bounded at

a: ru southern and northern extremities by two

cunhw, of which the southern is not large and

is almost dry at the conclusion of the great heats;

while the northern, which is much larger, offers

several parts which are at all seasons impass­

able. Both, however, have a broad, firm, sandy beach

between them and the sea. A river, now called the

river of Marathdna, flows through the centre of the

plain intevthe sea.

There are four roads leading out of the plain.

1. One runs along the coast by the south-western ex­

tremity of the plain. (Plan, aa.) Here the plain of

Marathon opens into a narrow maritime plain three

miles in length, where the mountains fall so gra­

dually towards the sea as to present no very defensible

impediment to the communication between the Ma­

rat honia and the Mesogaea. The road afterwards

passes through the valley between Pentelicns and

Hymettus, through the ancient demus of Pallene.

This is the most level road to Athens, and the only

one practicable for carriages. It was the one by

which Peisistratus marched to Athens after landing

at Marathon. (Herod, i. 62.) 2. The second road

runs through the pass of Vrand, so called from a

small village of this name, situated in the southern

of the two valleys, which branch otf from the in­

terior of the plain. (Plan, 66.) This road leads

through Cephisia into the northern part of the plain

of Athens. 3. The third road follows the vale of

Marafhdna, the northern of the two valleys already

named, in which lies the village of the same name,

the largest in the district. (Plan, cc.) The two

valleys are separated from one another by a hill

called Kotroni (Plan, 3), very rugged, but of no

great height. This third road leads to Aphidna,

from which the plain of Athens may also bo

reached. 4. The fourth road leaves the plain on

the north-east by a narrow pass (Plan, dd)

between the northern marsh and a round naked

rocky height called Ml. Kordki or Stavrokordki.

(Plan, 4.) It leads to Rhamnus; and at the en­

trance of the pass stands the village of Lower Stilt.

(Plan, 12.)

Three places in the Marathonian district particu­

larly retain vestiges of ancient demi. 1. Vrandf

which Leake supposes to be the site of the demus of

Marathon. It lies upon a height fortified by the

ravine of a torrent, which descends into the plain

after flowing between Mts.ArgaliHs.uA AJbrismo,

which are parts of Mt. Brilcssus or Pentelicus.

(Plan. 1,2.) A little below Vrand are seen four

artificial tumuli of earth, one considerably larger

than the others; and in a pass at the back of the

hill of Kotr*mi, which leads from the vale of Vrand

into that of Marathona, there are some remains of

an ancient gate. Near the gate are the foundations

of a wide wall, 5 feet in thickness, which are

traced for nearly 3 miles in circumference, en­

closing all the upper part of the valley of Vrand.

These ruins are now known by the name of 17

fidrSpa rijy ypalas (the. old woman's sheepfold).

Near the ruined gate Leake observed the remains

of three statues, probably those which were erected

by Herodes Atticus to throe favourite servants.

(Philostr. Soph. ii. 1. §10) Marathon was the

demus of Herodes, who also died there. The wall

mentioned above was probably built by Herodes, to

enclose his property; for it would seem from Pliny

that Marathon no longer exi.-ted as a town or

village a century before the time of Herodes.

(" Rhamnus pagus, locus Marathon," Plin. iv. 7.

s. 11.) The early disappearance of the ancient town

of Marathon would easily cause its name to he

