MASDORANUS. 2 S3 MASSAVA.

MASDORA'NUS (MaaSiipains), a chain of

mountains which divided Parthia from Cannania

Ifesrrta, extending in a S. direction. They must

ht considered as spurs of the Sariphi mountains

(Ilazarai), which lie to the N. of Parthia (Ptol.

Ti.5.§l). [V.]

MASKS (MdVnf, v Micrnros, Steph. B.: Eth

Mcwrfrnoj), an ancient city in the district Hermionis,

in the Argolic peninsula, mentioned by Homer

along with Aegica. In the time of Pausanias it

wm used as a harbour by Hermione. (Horn. //. ii.

562; Strab. viii. p. 376; Paus. ii. 36. § 2; Steph. B.

» r.) It was probably situated on the western coast

of Hermionis, at the head of the deep bay ofKiladhia,

which is protected by a small island in front. The

jouesskin of this harbonr on the Argolic gulf must

lave been of great advantage to the inhabitants of

Hermione, since they were thus saved the navigation

mood the peninsula of Kranidhi. The French Com­

mission, however, place Mascs more to the south, at

[art Kktli, which we suppose to have been the sile

if Hslice. [Halice.] (Leake, Morea, vol. ii.

p.463, Peltiponnesiaca, p. 287; Boblaye, Recherches,

•ft. p. 61; Curtins, Petoponnesos, vol. ii. p. 462.)

MASICES. [Maoretania.]

MA'SIUS (to Mimor floor, Strab. xi. pp. 506,

527; PtoL v. 18. § 2), a chain of mountains

which form the northern boundary of Mesopotamia,

«*1 extend in a direction nearly east and west.

They may be considered as connecting the great

western mountain known by the name of Amanus,

between Cilicia and Assyria, and the Niphates, on

the eastern or Armenian side. The modern name

is Karja Baghlar. Strabo states, that M. Masius

» in Armenia, because he extends Armenia some-

whit more to the VV. and S. than other geographers.

A southern spur of the Masian chain is the mountain

district round Singara (now Sir/jar). [V.]

MA'SPII (Mdrnrioi, Herod, i. 125), one of the

three tribes mentioned by Herodotus, as forming the

frst snd most honourable class among the ancient

Pt-sisns. [V.]

MASSA (MoVrtro, Ptol. iv. 6. § 6; Masatat,

Pchb. ap. PUn. v. 1), a river of Libya, which joined

the sea not far to the N. of the Dares (Senegal), and

ts the S. of Soloeis (Cape Blanco) in K. long. 10°

W, N. lat 16° 30'. [E.B.J.]

MASSA, sumamed Massa Vetkrnensis, a town

of Etruria, situated about 12 miles from the sea,

«t hill overlooking the wide plain of the Maremma:

km* it is now called Afassa Marittima. In the

FiMlr ages it was a considerable city and the see of

i bisfcop; but it is not mentioned by any ancient

a^tW earlier than Ammiunus Marcellinus (xiv. 11.

§ £), who tells us that it was the birthplace of

tl* emperor Constantius Callus. From the epithet

Werwnsis, it would seem probable that there was

« Etruscan city of the name of Veternum in its

bafhbMirbood; and, according to Mr. Dennis,

iIitv ire signs of an Ktrusoau population on a hill

°W the Poggio di i'tlrela, a little to the SE.

■f i« modern town. (Dennis, Etruria, vol. ii. p.

«»-) [E. H. B.]

MASSABATICA. [Messabatak.]

MASSAEI (Moffffoibi), a people placed by

ft*ray (vi 14. §§ 9, 11) in the extreme N. of

kytbia. Dear the mountains of the Alani, or the N.

P« of the Ural chain. [ E. B. J. ]

MASSAESYL1. [Xumidia.]

MASSAGA (to Mdtraaya, Arrian, A nab, iv. 25,

3»), a strongly fortified town in the NE. part of

India, between the Cophes and the Indus. It is

stated by Arrian (/. c.) to have made a desperate

defence, and to have withstood Alexander for four

days of continued assault. It had been the re­

sidence of the Indian king Assacanns, who was re­

cently dead when Alexander arrived there. (Curt,

viii. 10). This name is written differently in diffe­

rent authors. Thus, Strabo writes it Maoiya (xv.

p. 698); Steph. Byz. and Diodorus, Kaaaixa (xvii.

Prooem.); and Curtins, Mazaga (/. c). It is doubt-'

less the same as the Sanscrit, Macaka, near the

Guraeus (or Court). Curtins himself mentions

that a rapid river or torrent defended it on its

eastern side. (Lassen's Map of India.) [V.]

MASSA'GETAE (Maffffo/yrreu), a numerous and

powerful tribe who dwelt in Asia on the plains to

the E. of the Caspian and to the S. of the Iscdones,

on the E. bank of the Araxes. Cyrus, according to

story, lost his life in a bloody fight against them

and their queen Tomyris. (Herod, i. 205—214;

Justin, i. 8.) They were so analogous to the

Scythians that they were reckoned as members of

the same race by many of the contemporaries of

Herodotus, who has given a detailed account of their

habits and manner of life. From the exactness of

the geographical data furnished by that historian,

the situation of this people can be made out with

considerable precision. The Araxes is the Jaxartes,

and the immense plain to the E. of the Caspian is

that " steppe" land which now includes Sungaria

and Mongolia, touching on the frontier of Eygur,

and extending to the chain of the Altai. The gold

and bronze in which their country abounded were

found in the Altai range. Strabo (xi. pp. 512—

514) confirms the statements of the Father of

History as to the inhuman practices and repulsive

habits of these earliest specimens of the Mongolian

race. It may be observed that while Niebuhr

(Klein Schrift. p. 362), Bikkh (Corp. luscr. Grate.

pi. xi. p. 81)andSchaf'arik(Sfap. All. vol.i. p. 279)

agree in assigning them to the Mongol stock, Von

Humboldt (Asie Centrale, vol. i. p. 400) considers

them to have belonged to the Indo-European

family.

Alexander came into collision with these wander­

ing hordes, during the campaign of Sogdiaim, n. c.

328. (Arrian, Anab. iv. 16,17.) The Massagetae

occur in Pomponius Mela (i. 2. § 5), Pliny (vi. 19),

and Ptolemy (vi. 10. §2, 13. § 3): afterwards

they appear as Alani. [Alani.] [E. B. J ]

MASSA'LIA (Moo-aoAio), a river of Crcte.which

Ptolemy (iii. 17. § 3) places to the W. of Psychium

(Kastri),novi'the Megalo-potavio. (Hock, Kreta, vol.

i. p. 393.) [E. Ii. J.]

MASSA'LIA. [Massiua.]

MASSALIO'TICUM OSTIUM [Fossa Ma­

riana.]

MASSANI (Mao-<riW, Diod. xv. 102), a people

of India, who are said by Diodorus to have lived

near the mouths of the Indus, in the district called

Pattalene. [V.]

MASSAVA, in Gallia, is placed by the Table

between Brivodurum (Briare) and Ebinium, whkh

is Nevirnum (Nevert) on the J*oire. The distance

is marked the same from Massava to Brivodurum

and to Ncvimum, being xvi. in each case. Massava

is Mesve or Meves, a place where the small river

Mnsau flows into the Loire; but the numbers iu the

Table do not agree with the real distance. !is

D'Anville says, and he would correct them in bis

Usual way. [G. I..]

VOL It

