426 NICOPOLIS. NICOPOLIS.

§ 3; Itin. Ant. pp. 183, 207, 215; Hieroel p. 703;

Steph. B. s. ».). Most travellers and antiquaries are

agreed, that Nicopolis is represented by the modern

Turkish town of Devriki; but as this place is situ­

ated on a tributary of the Euphrates, the opinion is

opposed to the statements of our authorities, espe­

cially the " Acta Martyrum." Others are inclined to

regard Kara-Jiissar,on the Lycus,as marking the site

of Nicopolis; but still the routes indicated in the Iti­

neraries are in favour of Devriti; whence D'Anville

too identifies this place with Nicopolis, assuming that

the error lies with the author of the "Acta Mar­

tyrum," who expressly places Nicopolis on the river

Lycos,

3. An episcopal see of uncertain site, in Lydia or

Ionia, mentioned by Hierocles (p. 660). [L. S.]

4. A town in Cilicia. [Issus.]

5. A town in Palestine. [Emmaub, No. 2.]

NICOPOLIS. II. la Africa. A town in

Aepypt, founded by Angnstus Caesar, in n. c. 24,

on the field where he defeated, for the last time,

M. Antonius, and in commemoration of the surrender

of Alexandria. (Strab. xvii. p. 795 ; Joseph. B.

Jud. iv. 11; Dion Cass. li. 18; Steph. IS. t. r.) The

conqueror was at the moment highly incensed with the

Alexandrians; and, by the foundation of a Roman

town in their immediate neighbourhood, Bought to

intlict a permanent blow on their political and com­

mercial supremacy. Nicopolis was built a little W.

of the Delta proper, on the banks of the canal

which connected Canopus with the capital, and

about three and a half miles from its eastern gate.

That it was intended for a city of the first rank ap­

pears from its ground plan, which, however, was never

executed. Its founder built an amphitheatre and

a diaulos, and established there Ludi Quinquennales,

in honour of his victory ('AAc(aropfia, Spanheim,

Epitt. v. § 3, ed Morell.); and coins bear on their

obverse the legend NIKOriOAIZ. 2EBA3T. KTI2T.

He also designed to erect several temples, and to

transfer to them the principal sacrifices and priest-

colleges of the Macedonian capital. lint the whole

scheme was a failure; the natural advantages of

Alexandreia were incontestable; and the Roman

"City of Victory" was never more than than a subnrb

of its rival. Within less than a century after its foun­

dation, the name of Nicopolis disap[iears from history.

A town called Juliopolis, mentioned by Pliny alone

(vi. 23. s. 26), as seated on the same canal, and

about the same distance (20—30 blades) from

Alexandreia, is apparently Nicopolis (see Mannert,

vol. x. p. 626). [W. B. D.]

NICO'POLIS. III. In Europe. 1. AcityofEpeirus,

erected by Augustus, in commemoration of tiro victory

of Actiutn, B.C. 31. It was situated near the entrance

of the Ambraciot gulf, on the promontory of Epeirus,

which is immediately opposite that of Actium in

Acaniania. The extremity of the Epeirot promon­

tory is now occupied by the town of Prettta; and

Nicopolis lay 3 miles to the N. of this town, on a low

isthmus separating the Ionian sea from the Ambraciot

gulf. It was upon this isthmus tliat Augustus was

encamped before the battle of Actium. Ilis own tent

was pitched upon a height immediately above the

isthmus, from whence he could see both the outer

sea towards Paxi, and the Ambraciot gulf, as

well as the parts towards Nicopolis. He fortified

the camp, and connected it by walls with the outer

port, called Comarus. (Dion Cass. I. 12.) After

the battle he surrounded with stones the place where

his own tent had been pitched, adorned it with naval )

trophies, and built within the enclosure a tasrraxrv

of Neptune open to the sky. (Dion Cass. li. li.)

But, according to Suetonius {Aay. 18). be dedicated

this place to Neptune and Mars. The city was

peopled by inhabitants taken from Ambrecia, Acae-

torium, Thyrinm, Argos AmpbiMchicum, and Cely-

don. (Dion Cass. li. 1; Suet. Awg. 12; Strah. riL

pp. 324, 325; Pans. v. 23. § 3, vii. 18. § 8, x. 3*.

§ 4.) Augustus instituted at Ntcopoiis a quin­

quennial festival, called Actia, in commemoratu rf

his victory. This festival was sacred to Apollo, and

was celebrated with music and gymnastic ran.e-.

horse-racing and sea-fights. It was probably ib*

revival of an old festival, since there was an aivciect

temple cf Apollo on the promontory of Aniom.

which is mentioned by Thucydides (i. 29), and was

enlarged by Augustus. The festival was declared

by Augustus to be a sacred contest, by which it was

made equal to the four great Grecian games; it was

placed under the superintendence of the Lacedae­

monians. (Dion Cass., Suet., Strab., U. ec) Aa-

gustus caused Nicopolis to be admitted into the

Amphictyonic council (Pan*, x. 38. § 3). and nude

it a Roman colony. (Plin. iv. 1. s. 2; Tar. A**.

v. 10.) A Christian church appears to have beea

founded at Nicopolis by the Apostle PauL sinre Le

dates his letter to Titus from Nicopolis of Mace­

donia, which was most probably the colony of Au­

gustus, and not the town in Thrace, as sutne surra

supposed. Nicopolis continued to be the chief city

in Western Greece for a long time, but it had al­

ready fallen into decoy in the reign of Julian, share

we find that th« emperor restored both the tKj

and the games. (Mamertin. Julian. 9.) At the be­

ginning of the fifth century it was plundered by the

Goths. (Procop. B. Goth. iv. 22.) It was apsis

restored by Justinian (d* Atdif. iv. 2), and was still

in the sixth century the capital of Kptirua. (Hjerad.

p. 651, ed. Weasel.) In the middle ages Nicopohe

sunk into insignificance, and the town of Prrrtmm,

built at the extremity of the promontory, at Ircrth

absorbed all its inhabitants, and was doobtle*. aa at

similar cases, chiefly constructed oat of the roina ef

the ancient city.

The ruins of Nicopolis are still very considerable.

They stretch across the narrowest part of the

isthmus already described. Strabo (til p. Sj4)

erroneously describes the isthmus as 60 stadia ui

breadth; but the broadest part, from the emitb-

eastern extremity of the lagoon called ilAsomm ta

MytikOy is only three miles; while the ranvvma

part is less than half that distance, since the

eastern hnlf of the isthmus is occupied by the lectsei

of Mazoma. This lagoon is separated frum the

Ambraciot gulf only by a narrow thread of latj.

which is a mile long, and has openings, where tl«

fish are caught in great numbers, as they enter \im

lagoon in the winter and quit it in the summer. Dm

illustrates the statement of an ancient re.-era (*»»*.

that fish was so plentiful at Nicopolis at t« t*

almost disgusting. (Geogr. Grate. JUim. vol. ni p.

13, ed. Hudson.) Nicopolis hail two harbour*, •4'

which Strabo (vii. p. 324) says that the nearer aad

smaller was called Comarus (K«Vaoei), while the

further, and larger, and better one, was near the

mouth of the gulf, distant about 12 stadia frra

Nicopolis. It would appear, that Strabo r»«jrt-.T-l

both the ports to have been on the wrstrni reaK

outside .the gulf; but it U evident from the aetase

of the western coast that this cannot have hc»i the

case. Moreover, Dion Cassius (1.12) calls Ctxnaraa

