JERUSALEM. JERUSALEM. »

IIL Waixs.

I. Cpper City and OU Wall —" Of the three

walla, the old one was difficult to be taken, both on

account of the ravines, and of the eminence above

them on which it was situated, lint, in addition to

the advantage of the position, it was also strongly

built, as David and Solomon, and the kings after

tbetn, were very zealous about the work. Beginning

towards the north, from the tower called Hippicus,

and passing through the place called Xystus, then

Joining the council chamber, it was united to the

western cloister of the Temple. In the other di­

rection, towards the west, commencing from the same

place, and extending through a place called Bethso

to the gate of the Essenes, and then turning towards

the south above the fountain Siloam, thence again

bending toward the east to the Poo] of Solomon, and

running through a place which they called Ophla, it

was joined to the eastern cloister of the Temple."

To understand this description, it is only necessary

to remark, that the walls are described, not by the

direction in which they run, but by the quarter which

they face | i. e. the wall" turning towards the south"

i» the south wall, and so with the others; so that the

liippic Tower evidently lay at the NW. angle of the

Upper City; and, as the position of this tower is of

the first importance in the description of the city

walls, it is a fortunate circumstance that we are able

to fix its exact site.

(1) The Hippie Tower is mentioned in connection

with two neighbouring towers on the same north

wall, all bnilt by Herod the Great, and connected

with his splendid palace that occupied the north-

west angle of the Upper C ity. "These towers," says

the historian, " surpassed all in the world in extent,

beauty, and strength, and were dedicated to the

memory of his brother, his friend, and his best loved

wife.

* The Hippiau, named from his friend, was a  
square of 25 cubits, and thirty high, entirely solid.

Above the part which was solid, and constructed with

massive stones, was a reservoir for the rain-water,

20 cubits in depth; and above this a house of two

stories, 25 cubits high, divided into different apart­

ments; above which were battlements of 2 cubits, on

a parapet of 3 cubits, making the whole height 80

cubits.

(2) " The TowerPhasaeltu,-which was named from

his brother, was 40 cubits square, and solid to the

height of 40 cubits; but above it was erected a

cloister 10 cubits high, fortified with breastworks

and ramparts; in the middle of the cloister was

carried up another tower, divided into costly cham­

bers and a bath-room, so that the tower was in

nothing inferior to a palace. Its summit was adorned

with parapets and battlements, more than the pre­

ceding. It was in all 90 cubits high, and resembled

the tower of Pharos near Alexandria, but was of

much larger circumference.

(3) " The Tower Mariamne was solid to the height

of 30 cubits, and 20 cubits square, having above a

richer and more exquisitely ornamented dwelling.

Its entire height was 55 cubits.

M Such in size were the three towers; but they

looted much larger through the site which they

occupied; for both the old wall itself, in the range of

which they stood, was bnilt upon a lofty eminence,

and likewise a kind of crest of this eminence reared

itself to the height of 30 cnbits, on which the towers

bring situated received much additional elevation.

The towers wero constructed of white marble, in

blocks of 20 cubits long, 10 wide, and 5 deep, so

exactly joined together that each tower appeared to

be one mass of rock."

Now, the modern citadel of Jerusalem occupies the

N\V. angle of Mount Sion, and its northern wall

rises from a deep fosse, having towers at either angle,

the bases of which are protected on the outside by

massive masonry sloping upward from the fosse.

The NW. tower, divided only by the trench from the

Jaffa gate, is a square of 45 feet. The NE., con>

monly known as the Tower of David, is 70 feet

3 inches long, by 56 feet 4 inches bnmd. The

sloping bulwark is 40 feet high from the bottom of

the trench; but this is much choked up with rubbish.

To the tower part there is no known or visible en­

trance, either from above or below, and no one knows

of any room or space in it. The lower part of this

platform is, indeed, the solid rock merely cut into

shape, and faced with massive masonry, which rock

rises to the height of 42 feet. This rock is doubt­

less the crest of the hill described by Josephus as

30 cubits or 45 feet high. Now, if the dimensions

of Hippicus and Phasaelus, as already given, are

compared with those of the modern towers on the

north side of the citadel, we find that the dimensions

of that at the NW. angle—three of whose sides are

determined by the scarped rock on which it is based—

so nearly agree with those of Hippicus, and the

width of the NE. tower—also determined by the cut

rock—so nearly with the square of Phasaelus, that

there can be no difficulty in deciding upon their

identity of position. Mariamne has entirely dis­

appeared.

"To these towers, situated on the north, was

joined within —

(4) " The Jiogal Palace, surpassing all powers of

description. It was entirely surrounded by a wall

30 cubits high, with decorated towers at equal in­

tervals, and contained enormous banquetting halls,

besides numerous chambers richly adorned. There

were also many porticoes encircling one another,

with different columns to each, surrounding green

courts, planted with a variety of trees, having long

avenues through them j and deep channels and re­

servoirs everywhere around, filled with bronze sta­

tues, through which the water flowed; and many

towers of tame pidgeons about the fountains."

This magnificent palace, unless the description is

exaggerated beyond all licence, must have occupied

a larger space than the present fortress, and most

probably its gardens extended along the western

edge of Mount Sion as far as the present garden of

the Armenian Convent; and the decorated towers of

this part of the wall, which was spared by the Ro­

mans when they levelled the remainder of the city,

seem to have transmitted their name to modem

times, as the west front of the city wall at this jjart

is called Abrot/i Ghazzeh, i. e. Tlie Towers of Gaza.

(5) As the Xystus is mentioned next to the

Hippicus by Josephus, in his description of the north

wall of the Upper City, it may be well to proceed at

once to that; deferring the consideration of the Gate

Gennath, which obviously occurred between the two,

until we come to the Second Wall. The Xystus is

properly a covered portico attached to the Greek

Gymnasium, which commonly had uncovered walks

connected with it. (JJitL Ant. p. 580.) As

the Jerusalem Xystus was a place where publie

meetings were occasionally convened {Bell. Jud. ii.

6. § 3), it must be understood to be a wide public

C2

