NUBAE.

at tkamjn, lad reinforced by their kindred from

St, ririiiird akn in Mine measure by the intro-

tamva of Cari>titnity among them, these wander-

K **:roe> brunt an agricultural race, maintained

faaMrfti «c»inst the ruder trihea of the eastern

imtrn, sad a the sixth century a. o. were firmly

eaaaamd a» far S. perhaps as the Second Cataract

(Tssaa. Btl Pertic. L c 15.) In the following

r the Subae were for a time overwhelmed by

-fa, sod their growing civilisation wag  
Their employment as caravan-guides was

i by the introduction of the camel, and

—has were thinned by the increased activity

aTtat tkve-trade; since the Arabian invaders found

• aanrr sod docile negroes a marketable com­

mas lit opposite shore of the Bed Sea. But

s s errmry and a half the Nuhae again appear

» •ndtnuaaot race on the Upper Kile and its

■am. The entire valley of the Nile, from

a) ar latin down to the frontier of Aegypt, is

t ktodt. and the name Nubia appears for the

■ (Ttojrraphy.

t ancient Nuhae were rarttled in the hills

i, SW. of Meroe. (KUppell, Reiten in

k ft a.) The language of the Nubians of

I Be st this day b radically the same with

*1 *f awthero Kordoftm; and their numbers  
I amaUy underrated by the Greeks, who were

*""1af with such tribes only as wandered north-  
1 fatst of service with the caravans from

■I Phils* to the harbours of the Red Sea.

gturttphett, indeed, mention the Nu-

■ s altered race. Puny, Strabo, and Ptolemy

..Its them a different position. Ptolemy

[I J It) ififvm them from the Nile, doubtless

slj. tod places them W. of the Abyssinian

t sear the river Gir and in close contact

Strabo (xvii. p. 819) speaks

bsjs great nation of Lybia, dwelling in nu-

I iairprndenl crnmiinitiei uetntBU the J.ili-

raWet and the great bends of the Nile,—

■ Jfcatsa* Lastly, Pliny (vi. 30. s. 34)

sat S days W. of the island of the Semberritae

w). All these accounts, however, may be

U by steaming Kordofa* to have been the

■ seme of the Nuba*, whence they stretched

> N. and VY. accordingly as they found

'ttkre, caravan routes, or weaker tribes of

1 fssrtnlu made many settlements in N'nt.ia.

•aaaferable Aegyptian population was intro-

•tsmj the Dative Aethiopian tribes as far

seeaammi ef Gagaodea (Argo), or even Cebel-

(LaL 18° 25' N.) It is not certain

■y of the present race* of Nubia can be

'met of these colonists. Their

attested hy m series of monu-

ncarly the whole period of Aegyptian

These monuments represent three

•a^samtsHml history. (1) The first com-

1 samples cot in the sides of the mount-

st anottd, the temples which are de-

tht tasks, but emulate in their massive

taair original types; (3) the third

at analler and more frraceful edifices,

aavtf Gariaat and lhm<l»nr, in which

■aet ef the first style are wholly laid

* lent structures, however, though seated  
■**. the Kuhae were not the authors; and

■ hi regarded either at the works of a race

etsat Im ii if who spread their civi-

NUCEBIA. 451

ligation northward through the Nile-valley, or of

colonists from the Thebaid, who carved upon the

walls of Jpmmbiil. Semneh, and Soleh the titles

and victories of Rameses the Great. [W. B. I).]

NUCE'KIA (Nouxepio: Klh. NowtepiVot or Noo-

xpivos: Nucerinus). 1. Surnamed Ai.rATEitNA

(AV>octh dei Pagani), a considerable city of Campa­

nia, situated 16 miles SE. from Nola, on the banks

of the river Sarnus, about 9 miles from its mouth.

(Strab. v. p. 247; Plin. iii. 5. s. 9; itin. Ant. p. 109.)

The origin of its distinctive appellation is unknown;

the analogous cases of Teanum Sidicinum and others

would lead us to suppose that the Alfaterni were a

tribe or people of which Nuceria was the chief town;

but no mention is found of them as such. Pliny,

however, notices the Alfaterni among the " populi"

of Campania, apart from Nuceria (Plin. iii. 5. s. 9);

and we learn from their coins tliat the inhabitants

themselves, who were of Oscan race, used the desig­

nation of Nuccrini Alfaterni (u Nufkrinum Alsfa-

temura"), which we find applied to them both by

Greek and Roman writers (NouKepfa ri 'AJ^tpartpv-n

KaAoujutrt), Diod. xix. 65; Nuceria Alfaterna, Liv.

ix. 41; Friedlander, Otkitche Mun2tn, p. 21). The

first mention of Nuceria in history occurs in B.C. 315,

during the Second Samnite War, when its citizens,

who were at this time on friendly terms with the

Romans, were induced to abandon their all nnce, and

make common cause with the Samuites (Diod. xix.

65). In B.C. 308 they were punished for their de­

fection by the consul Fahius, who invaded their ter­

ritory, and laid siege to their city, till he compelled

them to an unqualified submission. (Liv. ix. 41.)

No subsequent notice of it occurs till the Second

PunicWar, when,in B.C. 216, Hannibal, having been

foiled in his attempt upon Nula. turned his arms

against Nuceria, and with much better success; for

though the citizens at first offered a vigorous resist­

ance, they were soon compelled by famine to sur­

render: the city was given up to plunder and totally

destroyed, while the surviving inhabitants took re­

fuge in the other cities of Campania. (Liv. xxiii.

15; Appian, Pun. 63.) After Hannibal had been

compelled to abandon his hold on Campania, the fu­

gitive Nucerians were restored (b.c. 210); but, in­

stead of being again established in their native city,

they were, at their own request, settled at Atella,

the inhabitants of that city being transferred to Ca-

latia. (Liv. xxvii. 3; Appian, Annib. 49.) How

Nuceria itself was repeopled we are not informed,

but it is certain that it again became a flourishing

municipal town, with a territory extending dowu to

the sea-coast (Pol. iii. 91). and is mentioned by

Cicero as in his day one of the iirf[»rtant towns of

Campania. (Cic. de Leg. Agr. ii. 31.) Its territory

was ravaged by C.Papius in the Social War, b.c. 90

(Appian, B. C. i. 42); and if we may trust the state­

ment of Floras, the city itself was taken and plun­

dered in the same war. (Flor. iii. 18. §11.) It

again suffered a similar calamity in b.c. 73, at the

hands of Spartacus (Id. iii. 20. § 5); and, according

to Appian, it was one of the towns which the Tri­

umvirs assigned to their veterans for their occu­

pation (Appian, B. C. iv. 3): but from the Liber

Coloniarum it would appear that the actual colony

was not settled there until after the establishment

of the Empire under Augustus. (Lib. Colon.

p. 235.) It is there termed Nuceria Constantia, an

epithet found also in the Itinerary, (/tin. Ant.

p. 129.) Ptolemy also attests its colonial tank

(Ptol. iii. 1. § 69); and we learn from Tacitus

ft O 1

