ROMA.

of F»lisd, or rather Falerii, and tlie erfction

Qrjadrifrons on the Forum Transitorium,

not exist till many centuries afterwards?

» indicates the Janus-temple of Numa as

the Argiletam (" Janum ad infimum Ar-

todicem pacis belliqua fecit," i. 19); whence

conclude that it was a district lying on the

'the Jorum. We do not think, however,

(Handb. p. 261), that any proof can be

the words of Virgil (Aen. viii. 345, seq),

—. with a poetical license, tho various places are

without regard to their order

t called Argitetum may hare

hy the imperial for* it is

ls> say.

of Caesar most have been very splendid,

temple of Venus stood a statue of the

- which would suffer nobody but  
lim, and whose fore-feet are said

those of a human being (Suet.

CI; Plin. riii. 64). The temple was

with pictures by the best Greek artists,

d with many precious offerings (Plin.

•rt. ex. 57, xxxrii. 3, .v.). It was one of the

> f-wa drr.ftrd to legal business, the other two

■ t.w Koran Bomanum and August!: —

_, inquis, agam Cicerone disertius ipso

Atxjor erit in triplici par mihi nemo foro."

(Mart. iii. 38. 2.)

aar it was mr used for assemblies of the

i ueaajaa doubtful; at all events the passage

r» backer (Hamuli, p. 369) from Tacitus (Ann.

E I |«aiai nothing, as the word curia there

to point to the Curia Julia. Of the subsequent

r af tbm Forum Caesaria but little is known,

aara to ban* escaped the fire of Nero; but it is

mni asncang the buildings restored by Diocletian

Qbf Srai Busier Cannua (" Opera publics arse-

.-smtajn. forum. Caesaris patriiiHMiium, Basi-

lauaaa et Graecostadium, fatal. Imp. Yimn.

——to Preller, Reg. p. 143, we must

} —-mm Caesaris, Atrium Minenrae.") It is

tod aa tike Ordu Romania, in the year 1143,

7 then bavre been a ruin,

■a J ay ft".— This forum was constructed for

.11 *\- * -f ;*ir.'rjnij mi.rc ammnii"<l:itiun

trad baaineaa, which bad now increased to

i extent that the Forum Roman am and Forum

- i- for ::. It included in its area  
ptt oar Mails Ui.tor, vowed by Augustus

i» 1 tar which he bad undertaken to avenge

ROMA. 799

shape (Palladio, Archil, iv.), with porticoes, in which

Augustus erected the statues of the most eminent

Roman generals. On each side of the temple were

subsequently erected triumphal arches in honour of

Germanicos and Drusua, with their statues (Tac.

Ann. ii. 64). The temple is said to have been very

splendid (Plin. zxxvi. 54), and was adorned,

as well as the forum, with many works of art (/6.

vii. 53, xxxiv. 18, xxxv. 10; Ov. Fast. v. 555, &c).

The Salii were accustomed to banquet here; and an

anecdote is recorded of the emperor Claudius, that

once when he was sitting in judgment in this forum,

he was so attracted by the savoury odour of the

dinner preparing for these priests, that he quitted

the tribunal and joined their party. (Suet. Claud.

33.) This anecdote has partly served to identify

the site of the temple, an inscription having been

discovered on one of the remaining walls in which

the Salii and their Mansiones are mentioned (Canina,

Foro Rom. p. 150).

The remains of three of the columns, with their

entablature, of the temple of Mars Ultor are still to

be seen near the place called the Arco de Pantani.

It must therefore have adjoined the back of the

Forum Caesaris. These three columns, which are

tall and handsome, are of the Corinthian order. All

we know respecting the history of the Forum

Augnsti is that it was restored by Hadrian (Spart.

Hadr. 19). The church of S. Basilio was probably

built on the site of the temple (Onto Horn. 1143;

Mabill. A/us. Jtal. ii. p. 143>

WARS ULTOR.

aW, et aaiia scelerato sanguine ferrum,

*'taa ffavror cauisa pro meliore tnus.  
yt. fanes, et, me victore, vocaberis Ultor.

ewat, ct fuso laetus ab hoste redit."

(Or. Fast v. 575, seq.)

ly* was appointed to be the place where

* timid consult aboot wars and triumphs,  
cam irpperio should be conferred,

nerals should deposit the in-

(Saet.Aug.39). The forum

smaller scale than Augustus

I ai, banaaae be could not obtain the consent

-■^fcarnaff householders to part with their  
(/Lift). It was opened for business before

- »u finiaiaad, which was dedicated B. c.  
>. Veil Pas. ii. 100). The forum ex-

ata sad* at the temjJe in a semicircular

Forum Transitorium or Forum A'errae.—This

forum was begun by Domitian, but completed and

dedicated by Nerva (Suet. Ann. 5; Aur. Vict. Caer.

1- ). We have said that LXimitian had a particular

predilection for Minerva, and he founded a large

Akdks Mimervak in this fornm (" bedicato prius

furo, quod appellatur Pervium, quo aedes Minervae-

eminentior consnrgit et mognificentior," A. Vict. lb.).

From this circumstance it was also called Forum

Palladium (*'Liinina post Pacis Palladiumque furuni,"

Mart. i. 2. 8); besides which it also had the name

of Pervium or Transitorium, apparently because it

was traversed by a street which connected the N.

| and S. sides of the city, which was not the ease

with the other font (Siebuhr, in the Beschreibtmg

Rams, iii. p. 282). Thus Lampridius (A lex. Sev. 28):

"In foro Divi Nervae, quod Transitoriuin dicitur;"

and Aurellus Victor in the passage just cited. From

the line of Martial's before quoted, it appear?* to have

adjoined the temple of Peace, erected by Vespasian,

which we shall have occasion to describe in another

section. There appears to have stood upon it a

temple, or rather perhaps fourfold archway of Julius

(Juodrifrons, probably somewhat resembling that

which still exists near 5. Georgio in I'tUibrtt, con­

necting the roads which led to the four different

forums, namely, the Forum llomantim, Forum Cae­

saris, Forum Nervae, and Forum Pacis, as Vesi«sian's

temple of Peace was sometimes called. The juxsaage

