VIA FLAMINIA

1299 VIA FLAMINIA.

of the Itinerary, though there are several variations

in the route.

Now, if we apply what has been sail] to the

remark of Strabo, that the distance from Thessa-

lonica was the same whether the traveller started

from Epidamnns (I)yrrachium) or from Apollonia,

it is difficult to perceive how such could have

been the esse if the junction of the two branches

existed in his time also at Clodiana; since, as we

have already seen, it was 16 miles farther to that

place from Apollonia than from Dyrracliium ac­

cording to the Itin. Ant.; and the Itin. Hierosol.

makes it 24 miles farther. Indeed the maps would

seam to show that if the two branches were of equal

length their junction moat have taken place to the

E. of Lake Lychnitis; the branch from Dyrracliium

passing to the N. of that lake, and that from Apol­

lonia to the S. But, although Burmeister, in his

review of Tafel's work (in Zimmerman's ZeUschrift

fur die AUerVammcitsemchaJl, 1840, p. 1148).

adopted such an hypothesis, and placed the junction

at Heraclcia, it does not appear that the assumption

ran be supported by any authority.

Clodiana, where the two branches of the Via

, or Candaria, united, was seated on the river

i (the Tjrrma or Skumbi). From this point

the valley of the river naturally indicated the course

of the road to the E. (Leake, Northern Greece,

voL iii. p. 313.)

We will now proceed to consider the second, or

eastern, portion of the Egnatian Way, viz., that be­

tween Tbessalonica and Cypsela.

The whole length of this route, according to

Strabo, was 268 Roman miles; and the distances set

down in the Itin. Ant. amount very nearly to that

anna, or to 265, as follows, (find, and Parth. p.

157; Wess. p. 330, seq.)

Apollonia -

- 36 miles.

Amphipolia

- 32

»

Philippi ...

. 32

n

Acontisma

- 21

Otopiaus (Topims)

• 18

If

Stabulum Dioinedis

• 22

„

Maxinuanopolis - •

• 18

"

Brixice or Brendice

- 20

11

Trajanopolis

- 37

II

Cypnela ...

- 29

265

n

Another roots given in the same Itinerary (Wess.

p. .320, seq.) does not greatly vary from the above,

iat im not carried on to Cypsela. This adds the

r-.llowing stations:—Melisaurgis, between Thessalo-

tuzM su*d Apollonia, Neapolis, between l'hilippi and

4.ct*ntisma, Cosintas, which according to Tafel (pars

i. p. 21) is meant for the river Cossinites, be-

«tvn Topirus and Maximianopolis, anil Milolitnm

in I Tempyra, between Brendice and Trajanopnlis.

"he ltio. Hierosol. makes the distance only 250

of the Egnatian Way are said to

still traceable, especially in the neighbourhood of

[ 111 n— wlnnira (Beaujour, Voy.mUUairt dam t E'm-

•rw Odman. vol. i. p. 205.) [T. U.D.]

VIA FLAMINIA (>) ♦AomWo. His), one of the

-lost ancient and important of the highroads of  
Imly. which led from Home direct to Ariminnm,

nd nasiv be considered as the Great A'ortA Road of

Roensna, being the principal and most frequented

me oaf communication with the whole of the north

I tally. It was also one of the first of the great

highways of which we know with certainty the period

of construction, having been made by C. Flaminius

during his censorship (b. c. 220), with the express

purpose of opening a free communication with the

Gaulish territory, which he had himself reduced to

subjection a few years before. (Liv.rTpir.xx.) It is

therefore certainly a mistake, when Strabo ascribes it

to C. Flaminius (the son of the preceding), who was

consul together with M. Aetnilius Lepidus, the

author of the Aemilian Way, in B. c. 187, and him­

self constructed a road from Bnmmia to Arretium.

(Liv. xxxix. 2 ; Strab. v. p. 217.) It is certain

that the Flaminian Way was in existence long be­

fore, and its military importance was already felt

and known in the Second Funic War, when the

consul Sempronius proceeded by it to Ariminum, to

watch the movements and oppose the advance of

Hannibal. (Liv. zzii. 11.) Throughout the period

of the Republic, as well as under the Empire, it was

one of the best known and most frequented of the

highways of Italy. Cicero, in one of the Philippics,

says there were three ways which led from Rome to

Cisalpine Gaul: the Klamiiiian by the Upper Sea (the

Adriatic), the Aurelian by the Lower, and the Cas-

sian through the midst of Etruria (/'Aft xii. 9).

During the contest between the generals of Vespa­

sian and Vitellius (a. d. 69) the military importance

of the Flaminian Way was fully brought out, and it

was felt that its possession would be almost decisivo

of the victory. (Tac. Hut. L 86, iii. 52, Ac.)

Tacitus alludes to the extent to which this great

highway was at this period frequented, and the conse­

quent bustle and crowding of the towns on its course

(/6. ii. 64). Most of these, indeed, seem to have

grown up into flourishing and populous places, mainly

in consequence of the traffic along the line of ruad.

So important a highway was naturally the object

of much at!ention.and great pains were taken not only

to maintain, but to restore and improve it. Thus, in

B.C. 27, when Augustus assigned the care of the other

highways to different persons of consular dignity, he

reserved for himself that of the Via Flaminia, and

completely restored it throughout its wlude length

from Rome to Ariminum, a service which « as acknow­

ledged by the erection of two triumphal arches

in his honour, one at Rome, the other at Ariminum,

the latter of which is still standing. [AntMUil'M.]

Again, at a later period, Vespasian added materially

to the convenience of the road by constructing a

tunnel through the rock at a place called Interns*,

now known as fl r'urlo, a work which still subcista

in its integrity. [Isttkiuha.] This remarkable

passage is jtarticularly noticed by the poet Claudian,

who has left us a general description of the Flami­

nian Way, by which the emperor Honorius proceeded,

in A. D. 404, from Ravenna to Rome. (Claudian,

els VI. Com. Uon. 494—522.) Indeed, it is evi­

dent that in the latter ages of the Empire, when the

emperors for the most part took up their residence

at Mediolanum or Ravenna, the Flaminian Way,

which constituted the direct line of communication

between those cities and Rome, must have become of

still greater imjwrtance than before.

One proof of the important influence exercised by

this great line of highway, is afforded by the circum­

stance that, like the Aemilian Way, it gave name to

one of the provinces of Italy in the later division of

that country under tlie Empire; though, by a strange

confusion or perverseness, the name of Flaminia was

given, not to the part of I'mbria which was actual iy

by the Via Flaminia, but to the eastern

4 o 2

