stria. 1073 SYRIA.

f *)>icb has been described by RurckhinH, ami its

atJari by the no less enterprising and more aan-

Mi I'urter. in more recent times. (Barckhardt,

yria, p. 1.1. Ac; Porter, /kimascus, vol. ii. p.

SO, Ac)

Tik northern part of Syria is now comprehended in

* radial ic of Aleppo, It is bounded on the east  
'the Euphrates, and on the north and west by the

mntais chains of Taurus and Amanus, the former

'*hich throws off other diverging branches to the

eta, until they ultimately Hunk the valley of the

r»ntrs on the east, so continuing the connection

•:*tn Antilibanus and its parent stock. Aleppo

*lf is situated in a rich and extensive plain, sepa-  
>l (Vi the east by undulating hills from the almost

-■i-apieal country, which consists of a level bl<ecp-  
>< k, extending from thence to the Euphrates. The

*ti level of this Syrian d evert is, however, diver­  
ted by occasional ranges of hills. and the plateaus

} of various elevation, rising a little wwt uf the

n.iun of Aleppo to a height of 1500 feet ulmvo the

xtiirrninean, and thence declining suddenly to the

it and much more gradually to the west, it is on

[of these ranges in the heart of the desert, north-

*Damascus, that Palmyra U situated, the only  
i.vable point in all the dreary waste, which has

■i described in an article of its own [Palmyra].

* tract between Damascus and Palmyra has been  
jTCtly explored by modern travellers, as well as

i ruins themselves; but there is no better account

t< riaind of them tlian in Mr. Porter's book,

**y so frequently referred to (vol. i. pp. 149—  
I: compare Irby ami Mangles, pp. 257—276).

111. Ancient aetyrapJuad divisions.—The ear^

t classical notice of Syria, which could be ex-

i«l to rnter into any detail, is that of Xenophon

Anabasis. Unhappily, however, this writer's

"ubi of the march of Cyrus through the north of

\* ia Ttry brief. The following notes are all that

'tfrs for the illustration of its ancient geography.

u> he mention!* as the last city of Cilicia, towards

is. One day's march of 5 parasangs brought

amy to the galea of Cilicia and Syria: two

V, 3 f>udia apart, — the river Census (Keotrur)

.i c between,—drawn from the sea to the preripi-

i forks, fitted with gales, allowing a very narrow

ach along tlie coast, and so difficult to force,

i afminst inferior numbers, that Cyrus had

r\t it necessary to send for the fleet in order to

> him to turn the flank of the enemy; but the |

U«i was abandoned by the general of Aria-

tea. One day's march of 5 parasangs brought

d t» Myriandrus (Mvpioyftpov), a mercantile city

he Phoenicians, ou the sea. Four days' march,

20 parasangi, to the river Chains (XaAos),

•iiiing in a fish held sacred by the Syrians,

•leys, or 30 parasangs, to the fountains of the

tdax (mL Danles, Aopoiit), where were palaces

park* uf Bclesys, governor of Syria. Three

. 15 favmsmngs, to the city Thapsacus on the

Sra&ea (Amnk i. 4. §§ 4 — 18). It is to be

irked that the 9 days' march of 50 jnrasangs

'A Uit* ia said by Xenophon to have led through

i where he use* that term of the Aram Naha-

, "f trie Scriptures, equivalent to Mesopotamia.

V* places named by the historian in Syria Pro-

l-.n* tuts been fully described [torn*]. The

im of the Cilician and Syrian gates is marked

w» narrow ^suaage left between the btisc of the

mm and the sea, where the ruins of two wall*,

■afrit by an interval of about 600 yards, still

preserve the tradition of the fortifications mentioned

in the narrative. The Census, however, now called

the Merkez-su, appears to have been diverted from

its ancient channel, and runs to the sea in two

email streams, one to the north of the northern wall,

the other to the south of tho southern. The site

of Myriandrus has not yet been positively determined,

but it must have been situated about half-way

between Iskttnderun (Alexandria) and Anus (Rho-

eus), as Strabo also intimates (see below). From

this point the army must have crossed the Amanus

by the BeVan pass, and have marched through the

plain of 'L'nik, north of the lake of Antioch, where

three fonlabie rivers, theLabotas(A'aro-iw).theOeno.

paras (AswdU), and the Arceuthus ('AJfrm), must

have been crossed on their inarch; which, however,

are unnoticed by the historian. The river Chains,

with its sacred fish, is identified with the Chaltb or

Koireik, the river of Aleppo, the principal tributary

to which in the mountains is still called liatokhi-

su, or Fish-river. The veneration of fish by the

Syrians is mentioned also by Di odor us, I.ncian, and

other ancient writers. (Ainsworth, Travel* m the

Track of the Ten Thousand, pp. 57— 65.) The

source of the river I>aradax, with the palaces and

parks of Belesys, 30 parasangs, or 90 geographical

mile--, from Chains, is marked by an ancient site

called to the present day Ha lis," peculiarly positioned

with regard to the Euphrates, and at a point when*

that river would be first approached on coming acn*s

Northern Syria in a direct line trending a little south­

ward, and corresponding at the same time with the

distances given by Xenophon." (Ainsworth, /. c. p.

66.) The ruins of a Roman castle, built upon a

mound of ruins of greater antiquity, doubtless pre­

serve the site of thesutmp's palace; while the rich and

productive alluvial soil of the plain around, covered

with grasses, flowering plants, jungle, and shrubs, and

abounding in game, such as wild boars, frant-oliii,

quails, landrails, Ac, represents '* the very large and

beautiful paradise:" the river Daradax, however, is

reduced to a canal cut from the Kuphrates, about a

mile distant, which separated the large park from

the mainland; and Mr. Ainsworth thinks that the

fact of the fountain being 100 feet wide at its source,

"tends to show that the origin of a canal ts meant,

rather than tho source of a liver" (p. 67. n. IX

Thapt-acus is described in a separate article. [Thap­

sacus.]

Par more full, but still unsatisfactory, is the de­

scription of Syria given by Strabo, a comparison

of which with the later notices of Pliny and Ptolemy,

illustrated by earlier histories and subsequent Itine­

raries, will furnish as complete a view of the c lassi­

cal geography of the country as the existing mate­

rials allow. The notices of Phoenicia, necessarily

intermingled with those of Syria, are here omitted as

having been considered in a separate article [Phoe­

nicia]. On the north Syria was separated front

Cilicia by Mons A man us. From the sea at the

gulf of Issus to the bridge of the Euphrates in

Commagene was a distance of 1400 stadia. On tin*

east of the Kuphrates, it was bounded by the Scenite

Arabs, on the south by Arabia Felix and Egypt, on

the west by the Egyptian sea as far as Issns

(xvi. p. 749). He divides it into the following dis­

tricts, commencing on the north: Commagene;

Seleucis of Syria; Coelcsyria; P hoe nice on the coast;

Jmlaca inland. Commagene was a small terri­

tory, having Samosata for its capital, surrounded

by a rich country. Sclcucis, the fortress nf Mexipe-

'i 7.

