LEMANIS PORTUS. 1J5 LEMNOS.

town called Pedasus at the foot of Mount Ida. (77.

xxi. 86.) Strabo relates that Leleges and Carians

onre occupied the whole of Ionia, and that in the

Milesian territory and in all Caria tombs and forts

of the Leleges were shown. He further says that

the two were so intermingled that they were fre­

quently regarded as the same people. (Strab. vii.

p. 321, xiii. p. 611.) It would therefore appear that

there was some close connection between the Le-

lege-. and Carians, though they were probably diffe-

mit peoplt-s. The Leleges seem at one time to

have occupied a considerable part of the western

coast of Asia Minor. They were the earliest known

inhabitants of Samoa. (Athen. xv. p. 672.) The

connection of the leleges and the Carians was pro­

bably the foundation of the Megarian tradition,

that in the twelfth generation after Car, Lelex came

over from Egypt to Megara, and gave his name to

the people (Pans. i. 39. § 6) ; but their Egyptian

origin was evidently an invention of later times,

when it became the fashion to derive the civilisation

of Greece from that of Egypt, A grandson of this

Lelex is said to hare led a colony of Megarian

Leleges into Messenia, where they founded Pylus,

ami remained until they were driven out by Neleus

and the Pelasgians from Iolcos; whereupon they

took possession of Pylus in Elis. (Paus.v. 36. § 1.)

The Lacedaemonian traditions, on the other hand,

represented the Leleges as the autochthons of La-

coma ; they spoke of Lelex as the first native of

the soil, from whom the people were called Leleges

and the land Lelegia; and the son of this Lelex is

sail to have been the first king of Messenia. (Pans,

hi. 1. § I, iv. 1. §§ 1, 5.) Aristotle seems to have

regarded Leu cadia, or the western parts of Acar-

nanla, as the original seats of the Leleges : for, ac­

cording to this writer, Lelex was the autochthon of

Leucadia, and from him were descended the Tele-

boans, the ancient inhabitants of the Taphian

islands. He also regarded them as the same people

as the Locrians, in which he appears to have followed

the authority of Hesiod, who spoke of them as the

subjects of Locrus, and as produced from the stones

with which Deucalion repeopled the earth after the

deluge, (Strab. vii. pp. 321,322.) Hence all the

inhabitants of Mount Parnassus, Locrians, Phocians,

Boeotians, and others, are sometimes described as

Ledges. (Comp. Dionys. Hal. i. 17.) (See Thirl-

wall. Hut. of Greece, vol. i. p. 42, seq.)

LEMANIS PORTUS (Kairoi \tphv, Ptol. ii. 3.

| 4), one of the chief seaports of Britain, situated

io the territories of the Cantii; the site near Ijymne,

ta Kent. The road from Dnrovemum to Portus

i*roamj (/fm. Anton, iv.) is extant nearly its entire

length, and known by the name of Stone Street.

The harbour or port is no longer to be traced,

owing to the silting up of the sea; but it must have

b*en situated opposite to West Hythe and Lymne.

The remains of the castmm, called Stutfall Castle,

tn the west of Wert Hythe, and below Lymne, indi­

cate the quarters of the Turnacensian soldiers sta­

tioned there in defence of the Littus Saxotiicnm.

(Ac*. Dig,') Recent discoveries have shown that a

Wj of marines (Classiarii Britannici) were also

located at the Portus Lemanis, and at Dubris

(Ihrrr). An altar was also found, recording the

tame of a prefect of the British fleet. {Report

<*i Excarations made at Lymne.') The Portus

Ltnanis is laid down in the Peutingerian Tables,

«od H u mentioned by the anonymous Geographer of

KtTenca,

The Roman station was situated on the slope of a

hill. Like that of Richbor&ugh (Rutupiae), it was

walled on three sides only; the side facing the sea

being sufficiently defended by nature in a steep

bank, such as we see at other Roman castra where

the engineers have availed themselves of a natural

defence to save the expense and labour of building

walls. The fortress enclosed about 10 acres. Tho

walls, in part only now standing, were upwards of

20 ft. high, and about 10 ft, thick; they were further

strengthened by semicircular solid towers. The

principal entrance was on the east, facing the site of

the village of West Hythe. It was supported by

two smaller towers, and, as recent excavations prove,

by other constructions of great strength. Opposite

to this, on the west, was a postern gate, of narrow

dimensions. At some remote period the castrum

was shattered by a land-slip, and the lower part was

carried away, and separated entirely from the upper

wall, which alone stands in its original position. To

this cause is to be ascribed the present disjointed

and shattered condition of the lower part. Parts of

the wall and the great gateway were completely

buried. The excavations alluded to brought them

to light, and enabled a plan to be made. Within tho

area were discovered the walls of one of the barracks,

and a large house with several rooms heated by a

hypocaust [C. B. S.]

LEMANUS or LEMANNUS LACUS (A^oeos,

Affidmrj Atpvr}: Lemon Lake or Lake of Geneva).

Caesar says (B. G. i. 8) that he drew his rampart

against the Helvetii "from the Lacus Lemannus,

which flows into the Rhone, as far as the Jura;" a

form of expression which some of the commentators

have found fault with and altered without any

reason. The name Aipivn Aifivn in Ptolemy's text

(ii. 10. § 2) is merely a copyist's error. In the

Antonine Itin. the name Lausonius Lacus occurs;

and in the Table, Losannensis Lacus. Mela (ii. 5),

who supposes the Rhodanus to rise not far from the

sources of the Rhenus and the Ister, says that,

"after being received in the Lemannus Lacus, the

river maintains its current, and flowing entire through

it, runs out as large as it came in." Strabo (p. 271)

has a remark to thesame purpose, and Pliny (ii. 103),

and Ammianus Marcellinus (xv. 11). This is not the

fact, as we may readily suppose, though the current

of the Rhone is perceptible for some distance after

the river has entered the east end of the lake of

Geneva. Ausonius (De Clar. Urb. Narbo) makes

the lake the chief source of the Rhodanus:—

Qua rapitur pracceps Rhodanus genitore Lemanno;

but this poetical embellishment needs no remark.

The Lake of Geneva is an immense hollow filled

by the Rhone and some smaller streams, and is

propcrlv described under another title. [Riiopa-

KU8.] [G. L.]

LEMA'VI. [Gam.akcia.]

LEM1NCXJM, in Gallia Narbonensis, is placed in

the Table and the Antonine Itin. on a road from the

Alpis Grain {Little St. Bernard) to Vienna ( Vienne).

Lemincum is Tremens, near Chambery, and there is

also, according to some authorities, a Mont Leminc.

The next station to Lemincum on the road to Vienna

is Labiscum. [Labiscum.] [G. L.]

LEMNOS {Arifivos: Eth. A-hpvtos), one of the

larger islands in the Aegaean sea, situated nearly

midway Iwtween Mount Athos and the Hellespont-

According to Pliny (iv. 12. s. 23), it lay 22 miles

SW. of Imbros, and 87 miles SE. of Athos; but the

