MARRUCINI. 279 MARRUVIUM.

(Lir. TiiL 29; Xiebuhr, vol. i. p. 101): and hence

we find the Marrucini generally following the lead

•ml sharing the fortunes of the Marsi and Peligni.

But in b. c 311 they appear to have taken part

with the Samuites, though the other confederates

remained neuter; as in that year, according to

Diudoru, they were engaged in open hostilities with

Bime. (Diod. xiz. 105.) No mention of this is

land in Livy, nor is their name noticed in B. c. 308,

when the Marai and Peligni appear in hostility to

kVme; but a few years after, b. c. 304, all three

nations, together with the Frentani, united in send­

ing amba**adors to sue for peace, and obtained a

treaty of alliance on favourable terms. (Liv. ix. 41,

45; Diod. xx. 101.) From this time the Marru-

rini became the firm and faithful allies of Rome;

and are repeatedly mentioned among the auxiliaries

sming in the Roman armies. (Dionys. xx. Fr.

Didst; Pol. ii. 24; Lix.xliv. 40; Sil. Ital. viii. 519.)

During the Second Punic War their fidelity was

anthaken, though their territory was repeatedly tra-

Twed and ravaged by Hannibal (Liv. xxii. 9, xxvi.

11; PoL iii. 88); and we find them, besides furnish­

ing their usual contingent to the Roman armies,

providing supplies for Claudius Nero on his march

to the Metaurus, and raising a force of volunteers

to soiist Scipio in his expedition to Africa. (Liv.

xxrii. 43, xxviii. 45.) In the Social War, however,

they fallowed the example of the Marsi and Peligni,

and, though their name is less often mentioned than

taat of their more powerful neighbours, they appear

to hare borne an important part in that momentous

contest. (Appian, B. C. i. 39,46; Liv. Epit lxxii.;

On*, v. IS.) Thus Herius Asinius, who is called

by Livy " praetor Marrucinoruin," and was slain in

«k of the battles between Marius and the Marsi, is

particularly noticed as one of the chief leaders of the

lultan allies. (Liv. Epit. lxxiiL; Veil. Pat. ii. 16;

Appian, B. C. i. 40.) But before the close of the

yor 89 B, c. they were defeated, and their territory

ravaged by Sulpicius, the lieutenant of Pompeius,

and *ouo after reduced to submission by Pompeius

himself. (Liv. Epit lxxvi.; Oros. V. 18; Appian,

B. C. i. 52.)

The Mamtcini were at this time admitted to the

Bonun franchise, and became quickly merged in the

ordinary condition of the Italian subjects of Rome.

Hence their name is from henceforth rarely found in

history; though it is incidentally noticed by Cicero,

« well as by Caesar, who traversed their territory

<a bis march from Corfinium into Apulia. (Cic.

pro Cluau. 19; Caes. B. C. i. 23, ii. 34.) In B. c.

43. *1m>, they were among the most prominent to

decUre themselves against Antonius. (Cic. 77///.

vii. 8.) From these notices it is evident that they

rill retained their municipal existence as a separate

people; and we learn from the geographers that this

continued to be the case under the Roman Empire

•aw; but the name gradually sank into disuse.

TVir territory was comprised, as well as that of

the Yestini, in the Fourth Region of Augustus; in

the subsequent distribution of the provinces, it is

nrt quite clear to which it was assigned, the Liber

Cblurtiarum including Teste among the "Civitates

Pifeoi," while P. Diaconns refers it, together with

tie 1'ieotani, to the province of Samninm. (Strab. v.

*.Ml; Pun. iii. 12. s. 17; PtoL iii. 1. § 60; Lib.  
CW. p258: P. Diac. ii. 20.)

The territory of the Marrucini (ager Marrncinus,

Pas.: i) Mod^owii'n, Strab.), though of small extent,

»«• fertile, and, from its situation on the E. of the

Apennines, sloping towards the sea, enjoyed a much

milder climate than that of the neighbouring Peligni.

Hence it produced oil, wine, and com in abundance,

and appears to have been noted for the excellence

of its fruit and vegetables, (Plin. xv. 19. b. 21;

Coiumell. x. 131.) It would appear to have been

subject to earthquakes (Plin. ii. 83. s. 85, xv ii. 25.

s. 38); and hence, probably, arose the apprehension

expressed by Statius, lest the mountains of the Mar­

rucini should be visited by a catastrophe similar to

that which had recently occurred in Campania.

(Stat. Silv. iv. 4. 86.)

The only city of importance belonging to the

Marrucini was Tkate, now Ckieti, which is called

by several writers their metropolis, or capital city.

At a later period its municipal district appears to

have comprised the whole territory of the Marrucini.

Interpromii'm, known only from the Itineraries,

and situated on the Via Valeria, 12 miles from

Corfinium, at the Osteria di S. Valentino, was never

more than a village or viens in the territory of Teate.

Pollitium, mentioned by Diodorus (xix. 105) as a

city of the Marrucini, which was besieged by the

Romans in- n. c. 311, is wholly unknown. Atrr-

kum, at the mouth of the river of the same name,

served as the port of the Marrucini, but belonged

to the Vestini. (Strab. v. p. 241.) [E. H. B.]

MARRU'VIUM or MARRU'BIUM (Mapoviov,

Strab.: Elk. Marruvius: & Benedetto), the chief

city of the Marsi, situated on the eastern shore of

the lake Fucinns, and distant 13 miles from Alba

Fucensis. Ancient writers agree in representing it

as the capital of the Marsi; indeed, this is suffi­

ciently attested by its name alone; Marruvii or

Marmbii being evidently only another form of the

name of the Marsi, and being thus used by Virgil as

an ethnic appellation (Momnia de gente, Am.

vii. 750). In accordance with this, also, Silius

Italicus represents Marruvium as deriving its name

from a certain Marrns, who is evidently only an

eponymous hero of the Marsi. (Sil. Ital. viii. 505.)

We have no account of Marruvium, however,

previous to the Roman conquest of the Marsic

territory; but under the Roman Empire it was a

flourishing municipal town; it is noticed as such

both by Strabo and Pliny, and in inscriptions

we find it called "splendidissima civitas Marsomm

Marruvium." (Strab. v. p. 241; Plin. iii. 12. s.17;

Mommsen, Truer. R. N. 5491, 5499; Orell. Inter.

3149.) It seems, indeed, to have been not unfrequently

called "Civitas Marsorum," and in the middle ages

"Civitas Marsicana:" hence, even in the Liber

Coloniarum, we find it called "Marsns mnnicipium."

(Lib. Colon, pp. 229, 256.) It is noticed in the

Tabula, which places it 13 M. P. from Alba; but it

was not situated on the Via Valeria, and must have

communicated with that high-road by a branch

from Cerfennia, (Tab. Pent.) Marruvium con­

tinued through the middle ages to be the see of the

bishop of the Marsi; and it was not till 1580 that

the see was removed to the neighbouring town of

Peseina. The site is now known by the name of

& Benedetto, from a convent erected on the spot.

Considerable ruins of the ancient city still remain,

including portions of its walls; the remains of an

amphitheatre, &c, and numerous inscriptions, as

well as statues, have been discovered on the site.

These ruins are situated close to the margin of the

lake, about two miles below Pescina. (Holsten. ad

Chiver. p. 151 ; Romanelli, vol. iii. p. 180—186;

Kramer, Fuciner See, p. 55; Hoare's Class. Tow,

T4

