VIA APPIA.

VIA AURELIA. 1295

usual to cross the Sicilian straits. The total dis­

tance from Capua to Kbegium, according to the

above description, in 321 miles. The Antonine

Itinerary makes it 337 miles. It is difficult to judge

how far this discrepancy is owing to error* in the

distances as given in our MSS., or to alterations in

the liue of road; for though it is erident that the

road given in the Itinerary followed generally the

same line as that originally constructed by Popi-

lins, it is probable that many alterations bad taken

place in particular parts; and in the wild and moun­

tainous tracts through which the greater part of it

was carried, such alterations must frequently have

been rendered necessary. The determination of the

particular distances is, for the same reason, almost

impossible, without being able to trace the precise

course of the ancient road, which has not yet been

accomplished. The stations and distances, as given

in the Antonine Itinerary, are as follow:—

MP.

From Capua to Kola - - - zxi. (xix.)*

Nuceria (ATocero) - xvi.* (xiv.)

Ad Tanarum - - xxv.

Ad Calorem ... xxiv.

In Marcelliana - - xxv.

Caesariana - - - xxi.

Nerulum (Z.a/<o'«wia) xxiii.

bub Muruno (near

Murano) - xiv.

Caprasiae ( Tartia) - xxi.

Consentia (Coienia) xxviii.

Ad Sabatum uuvium xviii.

Ad Turns ... xviii.

Vibuna (Monte Leone) xxi.

Nicotera (A'icolera) - xviii.

Ad Mallias - xxiv.

Ad Columnam - - xiv.

The stations between Nuceria and Nerulum can*

not be determined. Indeed the only points that can

Iret looked upon as certain, in the whole line from

Nuceria to Rhegium, are Sub Murano, at,the foot of

ttie bill on which stands the town of Mvrono, Con-

leolia (Cinema), Who Valeiitia (Munle Ltune), and

Nicotera, which retains its ancient name. Nerulum

and Caprasiae may be 6xed with tolerable certainty

I,j reference to these known stations, and the dis­

tances in this part of the route appear to be correct.

The others must remain uncertain, until the course

of tl>e road has been accurately traced.

At Nerulum the attove line of road was joined by

one winch struck across from Venusia through Po-

ti-otia (PoUnza) to that place. It was a continu­

ation of tiir cri»ss-road already noticed from Equus

'i uticua to Venusia: this line, which is given in the

Antonine Itinerary (p. 104), wascalled, as we learn

frven the inscriptions on milestones still extant, the

Via Hebculia, and was therefore in all probability

tbat work of the Emperor Maximianus. (Mommsen,

/ /£. A*, p- 348.) The stations mentioned in the Iti­

nerary (<• *-) are: —

Kroxn Venusia to Opinum . - - xv. M. p.

Ad Huv. Bradanum xxix.

• Both these distances are overstated, and should

be corrected as suggested by the numbers

itheses. The aame distances are given in

Tavb. Peut. thus:—

Capua to Suessula - - - ix. >t. p.

Nola - -- -- -- ix.

Ad Teglanum v.

Nuceria ...... ix.

xxiv.

xxiv.

From Venusia to Potcntia (Polenta)

Acidii(?) - - -

Grumentum (Sapo-

nara) ... xxviii.

Semuncla (?) - - xxvii.

Nerulum ... xvi.

None of the above stations can be identified, except

Potentia and Grumentum. and the distances are in

some cases certainly erroneous. The same line of

route is given in the Tabula, but in a very confused

and corrupt manner. The stations there set down are

wholly different from those in the Itinerary, but

equally uncertain. Anxia (Ami), between Potentia

aud Grumentum, is the only one that can be identified.

The principal work on the Via Appia is that of

Pratilli (Mia Via Appia, foL Napoli, 1745); but,

unfortunately, little dependence can be placed upon

it. Parts of the route hare been carefully and accu­

rately examined by Westphal, Chsupy, and other

writers already cited, but many portions still remain

to be explored; and accurate measurements are

generally wanting. Nor does there exist any map of

the kingdom of Naples on which dependence can be

placed in this respect. [E. 11. B.]

VIA AQUILIA. [Via Api-ia, No. 5.]

VIA ARDEATINA. [Akdha.]

VIA AUIiELIA, one of the principal highways

of Italy, which led from Rome to Pisae in Etruria,

and tlienco along tho coast of Liguria to tile

Maritime Alps. It was throughout almost its whole

extent a maritime road, proceeding, in the first in-

stance, from Rome to Alsiuin cn the Tyrrhenian

sea, whence it followed the coast-line of Etruria,

with only a few trifling deviations, the whole way to

Pisae. The period of its construction is quite un­

certain. Its name sufficiently indicates thai it was

the work of some magistrate of the name of Aurelius;

but which of the many illustrious men who bore this

name in the latter ages of the Republic was the au­

thor of it, we are entirely uninformed. We know with

certainty that it was in use as a well-known and fre­

quented highway in the time of Cicero, who mentions

it as one of the three roads by which he might

proceed to Cisalpine Gaul ("ab infero mari Aurelia,"

l'hil. xii. 9). It may also be probably inferred that

it was in existence as far ss Pisae, when the road was

carried from that city to Vada Sabata and Derton.i,

the construction of which is ascribed by Strabo to

Aeniilius Scaurus, in B.C. 1U9 (Str.ib. v. p. 217).

[Via Akmilia Scauki ] This continuation of the

Aurelian Way seems to have been commonly included

under the same general name as the original road;

though, according to Strabo, it was properly called

the Aemilian Way, like its more celebrated namesake

in Cisalpine Gaul. It was apparently not till the

reign of Augustus that the line of road was carried

along the foot of the Maritime Alps, from Vada Sa-

bata to Cetnenelium, and thence into Gaul. It is

certain, at least, that the ancient road, of which the

traces are still visible, was the work of that emperor;

and we know also that the Ligurian tribes who in­

habited the Maritime Alps were not completely re­

duced to subjection till that period. [Liui'ria.]

The Itineraries, however, give the name of Via Au­

relia to the whole line of road from Rome to Arelate

in Ganl; and though little value can be attached to

their authority on this point, it is not improbable

that the name was frequently used in this more ex­

tended sense; just as that of the Via Appia was

applied to the whole line from Rome to Bruudusium,

though originally carried only as far as Capua.

