VADAVEHO. 1253 VALDASUS.

tim nilh a small but secure port about 4 miles N.

at \'aJo. Livy indeed mentions Savo (undoubtedly

the Mine with Sarona) aa a sen-port town of the

I.ijrnriana, where Mago established himself during

the Second Punic War (Liv. xxviii. 46) ; but the

maie dues not occur again in any writer, and

hence Cluverius supposed that tilts was the place

afterwards called Sabbata. There seems, however,

no doubt that Sabbata or Sabatia, Vada Sabbata, or

V*is Sabatia, and Vada simply (as the name is

sntten by Cicero), are all only different forms of tho

urn* name, and that the Roman town of Vada was

lihuted on, or very near, the same site as the pre-

*-iit I'udo, a lonp straggling fishing village, the bay  
at which still afford* an excellent roadstead. The

-ictrnctive epithet of Sabbata or Sabatia was evi-  
'1-r.ilr derived from its proximity to the original

Librarian town of Savo. [K. H. B.]

VADA'VERO. a mountain near Bilbihs in the

>rritory of the Celtiberi, in Hispania Tarraconensis.

I: soprars to be mentioned only by Martial (i. 50. 6),

» U characterises it by the epithet of " sacred," and

aitrrts to its rugged character. [T. H. I).]

VADA VOLATERRANA. [Vouatebrak].

VADICAJ&U (OvaSMdo-trioi), a people of Gallia

I.u^rianensU, whom Ptolemy (ii. 8. § 16) places on

t.ir borders of Uelgica, and next to the Meldae. He

^■m^tis to the Vadicassii a city Noeotnagns. IVAu-

riile conrlodea that following Ptolemy's data we may

;.lice his Vadicassii in VaioU, which is between

M'iimz and Soutoru. He remarks that \'aloi$ is

Vulitus in the capitularies of Charles the Bald, and

Vidensis in the later acts. Other geographers have

AiuVrent opinions. In many of the editions of Pliny

18) we find enumerated " Andegavi, Vidurasses,

Vitdi<pcaases, Unelli;" but only one MS. has " Vadio-

"^vea," and the rest have Bodiocasses or Bodicasses,

ehirh we must take to be the true reading, and they

to be the same as the Baiocassks. (D'An-

rille. Notiet. 4c.; Ukert, GaUien.) [G. L.]

VADIMO'XIS LACUS (v OuiXfutr Xifirn, Po-

> b.: Laghetto di Bassano), a small lake of Etruria,

«»rai tbe Citninian hills and the Tiber, celebrated

n histury as the scene of two successive defeats of

i<e combined Etruscan forces by the Romans. In

l:r first of these battles, which was fought in 8. c.

Ht9. tbe Etruscans had raised a chosen army, enrolled

nth peculiar solemnity (lege sacrata) ; but though

hey fought with the utmost valour and obstinacy,

hey sustained so severe a defeat at the hands of tho

i.Kiian Consul Q. Fabius Maximus, that, as Livy

•marks, this disastrous day first broke the power of

.cruris (Liv. ix. 39). The second battle was

wgbt near 30 years later (n. c. 283), in which the

iited forces of the Etruscans and Gauls were totally

•-(rated by tlieconsul P.Cornelius Dolabclla. (Polyb.

. 20 ; Eutrop. ii. 10 ; Flor. i. 13.) But though

has celebrated in hbtory, the Vadimonian lake is

rery trifling sheet of water, in fact, a mere pool

r ptagraut pond, now almost overgrown with reeds

i.'i bulrushes. It was doubtless more extensive in

orient times, though it could never have been of

in importance, and scarcely deserves the name of a

ike But it is remarkable that the younger PUny

i one of his epistles describes it as a circular basin

founding in Moating islands, which have now all

isappeared, and probably have contributed to fill up

.e ancient basin. Its waters are whitish and highly

ilphureoos, resembling, in this respect, the Aquae

jbulae near Tibur, where the phenomenon of float-

„• uJanda sull occasionally occurs. (Plin. Ep. viii.

20.) It enjoyed the reputation, probably on account

of this peculiar character, of being a sacred lake. But

the apparent singularity of its having been twice the

scene of deceive conflicts is sufficiently explained

by its situation just in a natural jiass between the

Tiber and the wooded heights of the Ciminian forest,

which (as observed by Mr. Dennis) must always

ha%'e constituted a natural pass into the plains of

Central Etruria. The lake itself, which is now

called the Laghetto di Batsano from a neightiouring

village of that name, is only a very short distance

from the Tiber, and about 4 miles above Orte, the

ancient Horta. (Dennis's Etruria, vol. i. pp. 167—

170.) [E. H.B.J

VAGA, a town of the Cantii in Britannia Ro­

mans (Aot. Imp.) fT. H. D.l

VAGA. [Vacca.J

VAGEDRUSA, the name of a river in Sicily, men­

tioned by Silius Italicus (xiv. 229), according to the

old editions of that author; but there ran be no

doubt that the true reading ia that restored by Ru-

perti, "vage Chrysa," and that the river Chrysas is

the one meant (Ruperti, ad I. c.) [E. H. B.j

VAGIENNI (B«7n>'i'o(), a Ligurian tribe, who

inhabited the region X. of the Maritime Alps, and

S. of the territory of the Taurini. According to

Pliny they extended as far to the W. as the Mons

Vesulus or Monte Viio, in the main chain of tho

Alps (Plin. iii. 16. s. 20), while their chief town

or capital under the Roman rule, called Augusta

Vagiennorum, was situated at Bate, between the

rivers Stura and Tanaro, so that they must have

occupied an extensive territory . But it seems im­

possible to receive as correct the statement of Vel-

leius (i. 15) that the Roman colony of Eporedia

(/cr«i) was included within their limits. [Epo­

redia.] It is singular that Pliny more than

once speaks of them as being descended from the

Caturiges, while at the same time he distinctly

calls them a Ligurian tribe, and the Caturiges are

commonly reckoned a Gaulish one. It seems pro­

bable, however, that many of the races which in­

habited the mountain valleys of the Alps were

of Ligurian origin; and thus the Caturiges and

Segu-tiani may very possibly have been of a Li­

gurian stock like their neighbours the Taurini,

though subsequently confounded with the Gauls.

We hare no account of the period at which the

Vagienni were reduced under the Roman yoke,

and their name is not found in history as an inde­

pendent tribe. But Pliny notices them as one

of the Ligurian tribes still existing in bis time, and

their chief town, Augusta, seems to have been a

flourishing place under the Roman Empire. Their

name is sometimes written Ba^ienni (Orcll. Inter.

76), and is found in the Tabula under the corrupt

form Bagitenni. (Tab. Ftut.) [E. H. B.j

VAGXIACAE, a town of the Cantii in Britan­

nia Romans, between Xoviomagua and Durobrivae.

Camden (p. 226) identifies it with Maidstone,

Horsley (p. 424), with more probability, with North-

fleet. Others have sought it near Longfleld, and at

IrVofAam. [T. H. D.J

VAGORITUM (Oi)o7ooito»). [Arvii.J

VAHALIS. [Batavi; Riikkis.]

VALCUM, a place near the coufines of Up-

per and Lower Pannonia, not far from Lake Peiso

(/fin. Ant. p. 233), but its exact site is uncer­

tain. [L. S.J

VALDASUS, a southern tributary of the Savns,

flowing from the mountains of Illyricum, and join-

4 L 3

