852 ROMA. ROMA.

catalogue baa come down to us in various shapes.

One of the simplest ami most genuine seems to be

tlmt entitled Cwriosum Urbis Romae Regumstm

XI111. cum Brtviariis miff, the MS. of which is in the

Vatican. Some of the other MSS. of the Notitta

seem to have been interpolated. The spelling and

grammar betray a late and barbarous age; but it is

impossible that the work can have been composed

at the time when the MS. was written.

Besides these there are two catalogues of the so-

ralleil Hkgionarii, Pi bi.ii s Vktoic, and Skxtus

III IF US, which till a very recent period were regarded

as genuine, and funned the chief basis of the works

of the Italian topographers. Il is now, however,

universally allowed that they are compilations of a

very late date, and that even the names of tiie

writers of them are forgeries. It would be tot) lung

to enter hi this place into the reasons which have

led to this conclusion: and those readers who are

desirous of more information will find a full and

clear statement of the matter in a paper of Mr. Bun-

bury's in the Classical Museum (vol. iii. p. 373,

seq.).

The only other authorities on Roman topography

that can be called original are a few notices by

travellers and others in the middle ages. One of

the principal of these is a collection of inscriptions,

and of routes to the chief churches in Home, dis­

covered by Mabillon in the monastery of Kinsiedlen,

whence the author is commonly cited as the A.\o-

nymus Eiksikdlensis. The work appears to

belong to the age of Charlemagne, and is at all

events older than the Leonine city, or the middle of

the 9th century. It was published in the 4th vol.

of Mabi)Ion's Analevta; but since more correctly,

according to the arrangement of Gustav Haenel,

in the Archie fur Philologie uad P&dagogi*\

vol. v. p. 115, seq. In the Routes the principal

objects on the right and left are mentioned, though

often lying at a considerable distance.

The treatise called the MlKABlLIA RoMAE, pre­

fixed to the Ckronicon Romualdi Sofernitnni in a

MS. preserved in the Vatican, and belonging ap­

parently to the 12th century, seems to have been

tho first Attempt at a regular description of ancient

Rome. It was compiled from statistical notices,

narratives in the Acta Marti/rum, and popular

legends. It appears, with variations, in the Liber

Censunm of Ccneius, and in many subsequent ma­

nuscripts, and was printed as early as the 16tfa

century. It will be found in MontfaUCOO, Diari'nm

ftttf. p. 283, seq., and in Nibby's Ejfemeridi F.*t-

terarie, Rome, 1820. with notes. A work ascribed

to Maktini s POLONUS, belonging probably to the

latter part of the 13th century, seems to have been

chiefly founded on the Mirabilia. Accounts of

some of the gates of Rome will be found in William

OP Malmesuuky's work De (iestis Regum An-

glorum (book iv.).

The Florentine Pocgio, who flourished in the

15th century, paid great attention to Roman an­

tiquities. His description of Rome, as it existed in

his time, is a mere sketch, but elegant, scholar-like,

and touching. It is contained in the first book of

his Work entitled Dc 1 tirii Uite Fortunae I'rbis

RamM. and will be found in Sallengre, Nov. The-

sour. Ant. Rom. vol. i. p. 501. A separate edition

of his work was also published in Paris, 1723.

His predecessor, Petrarch, has given a few par­

ticulars respecting the state of the city in his time;

but he treats the subject in an uncritical manner.

The traveller Kyriaci's, called from bis taWf

town Anconitanus, *ho accom named tbt mssstt

Sigismund, passed a few days in Bene darn* da

time that Poggio was also there, which bf

collecting inscriptions, and noting down km a*

marks. His work, entitled A'yrwei Ji^fMBsa

Jtincmrium. was published st Floreivce is 17*t ^

Such arc the chief original sources <* StfH

tojMigraphy. The literature of the ?utjectb &ttt^

autly copious, but our space will permit i

little more than present the reader with s fottftf

principal works. The first regular trratw astl

antiquities of R"ine was tlmt ol Bioudo Flati* (1

dus Klaviu>) (138S—1463). who «a» st m

man of bu&incss and a man si letters. H*» i

entitled lioma Instanratn. a ^igai-t'n <<\ 1U

topography, was published by Kroben a! I

1513, fol. An Italian translation by LueWfia

hut imperfect, appeared at Venice in T*

the end of the 15th century. Julius Pwf

Laetus fonnded the Koman Academy. La r»

an enthusiastic collector of inscriptions, but IjmB^

nos for them was such that he sometimes i

what he failed in discovering, and he i

having forged the inscription t" the sU

dian found in the f<>rum of Trajan. (Ti

Storia aella Lett. vol. ii. lib. iv.) Ha b«*

Romauae Urbis vetusUste, is uncritical, and rf

value. Janus Parrhasius had a little [jtt

published the p>eudo-Victor. To the same ]

belong the De VrbeRoma Collectanea rftat

Kabricius Varranus, a compilation chiidy

from Biondo, ami published, like the work cf

in the collection of Mazocihi, Rome, 151J.

Bernardo Buecellai, a friend of Lorenzo dt*

commenced a description of Rome, by way**

nieiitury on the s«-calU*d Victor. Il was

completed, and the M.S., which U of co

value, was first printed among the

"Scriptores," in an Appendix to Murattsis

tion (vul. ii. p. 755).

The next work that we need men'ion is tfcafl

qmtatcs I'rbis Romae of Andreas Fulwas, M

1527, fol. Bresc. 1545, 8vo. This prwhaetij

great step in advance. Kulvius prxarat J

llaphael a sketch of the 14 Kegkns.

the restoration of them by himself, bat

seem to have been preserved. In 1534

nese knight Baitholomaens Marlianus f*

I'rbis Romae Topographia, a work m mmaT

still unsurpassed. An augmented and cari|

proved edition was published in 1544: bat

1588 is a mere reprint of the first. It vfl

found in the Thesauru* of Graevins, rtlsi.

liano was the first to illustrate bi» work wtt

and drawings, though they are not of a vett

rior kind. Lucio Fauno's belie A nticiuSs

Citta di Roma appeared at Venice in 1^44. k

tains a few facts which had been oreriookai.'

predecessors. The celebrated hermit

rutins of Verona, published at Venice

Ottnmentarium Rcipvblica* Roma

first book, entitled Antiyuae I'rbis /noyo,

the topographical part, is written with much

and acuteness. It was intended merely as a

to a complete description of

Beg ions of Augustus, but the early

vinius preventeil the execution \£ th

work is contained in the culle<ctiao

vol. iii. It was Panvinios who

tus Kufus, uud he also

