SYBARIS. 105:? STCAMIXA.

srnimstances of which we are very imperfectly

h u.n'ed. It appears that the government had

rrrioasly been in the hands of an oligarchy, to

i Mich persons a> Smindy rides and Alcimenes

ranlly belonged; but the democratic )>arty, headed

tl t demagogue named Telys, succeeded in over-

brewing their power, and drove a considerable

rmfaer of the leading citizens into exile. Telys

*mipoa seems to have raised himself to the position  
i "tepot or tyrant of the city. The exiled citizens

■«i refuge at Crotona; but not content with their

viory, Telys and his partisans called upon the

"rdoniata to surrender the fugitives. This they

rf«aed to do, and the Sybarites hereupon declared

'iron them, and marched upon Crotona with an

r.sr said to have amounted to 300,000 men. They

i«t met at the river Traeis by the Crotoniats,

itos army did not amount to more than a third of

f-rr numbers; notwithstanding which they obtained

* r |il*t* victory, and put the greater part of the  
vlantes to the sword, continuing the pursuit to

U§ very gates of the city, of which they easily irihde

>rrielres masters, and which they determined to

etfroy so entirely tbat it should never again be

•■•tiled. F<<r this purpose they turned the course

r {;»« river Crathis, so that it inundate) the site of

• buried the nuns under the deposits that

[ brought down. (I)iod. xii. 9, 10; Strab. vi. p.

IM; Herod, v. 44; Athenae. xii. p. 521; Scymn.

i 337—360.) This catastrophe occurred it: B. c.

10, and seems to have been viewed by many of

Isf Greeks as a divine vengeance upon the Sybarites

f iheir pride and arrogance, caused by their exc$s-

"v prosjj*rity, more especially for the contempt they

*t ithown for the great festival of the Olympic  
■i •-, which they are said to have attempted to

ffkat by attracting the principal artists, athletes,

^, to their own public games. (Scymn. Ch. 350— i

6U;Atben. /. c.)

It is certain that Sybaris was never restored.

V surviving inhabitants took refuge at Laus and

Liirui, on the shores of the Tyrrhenian sea. An

tSnript was indeed made, 58 years after the de-

nvtum of the city, to establish them anew on the

fcmit site, but they were quickly driven out by

v Crotoniats, and the fugitives afterwards enm-

whh the Athenian colouists in the foundation

r Thurii. [T hit an.] At the present day the

Or 14 utterly desolate, and even the exact position

'the ancient city cannot be determined. The

ftali plain watered by the rivers Cosciie and Cratt

V ancient Sybaris and C rat his), so renowned in

VMit times fur its fertility, is now a desolate

tiaipy tract, pestilential from malaria, and fre­

tted only by vast herds of buffaloes, the usual

ri«Tipanimeiit in Southern Italy of all such pesti-

«n* regions. The circumstance mentioned by

irato that the river Crathis had been turned from

i course to inundate the city, is confirmed by the

rvlrntal mention in Herodotus of the dry channel

the Crathis " (wapit rbv ^rjpov Koa&r, lierod. v.

I), and this would sufh'iieutly account for the

■appearance of all traces of the city. Swinburne

ie#d tells oa that some "degraded fragments of

wducts and U»mbs" were still visible on the

■miaul* formed by the two rivers, and were pointed

S as the niins of Sybaris, but these, as he justly

Krves, bein? built of brick, are probably of Roman

nes, and have no connection with the ancient city.

rpf"*l Craven,on the other hand, speaks of "a wall

iiietunea visible in the bed of the Crathis when the

waters arc very low" as being the only remaining

relic of the ancient Sybaris. (Swinburne's Trarels,

vol. i. pp. 290—292;" Craven's Soutfitrn Tour, pp.

217, 218.) The ruins marked on Zannoni's large

map as tAnticn Sibari are probably those of Thurii

[Tnm] But it is certain that the locality has

never yet been thoroughly examined, and it is pro­

bable that some light may even yet be thrown upon

the site of this celebrated city: especially if the

mar*hy plain in which it is situated should ever be

reclaimed and cultivated. There is no doubt that if

this were done, it would again be a tract of surpass­

ing fertility: it is cited as such by Varro, who tells

ns that ''in Sybaritano" wheat was said to produce

a hundred-fold. (Vmr. H. R. i. 44.) Kven at tliH

present day the drier spots produce very rich crops

of corn. (Swinburne, L c.)

The river Sybaris was said to be so named by the

Greek colonists from a fountain of that name at

Bura in Achaia (Strab. viii. p. 3S6): it had the

property, according to some authors, of making horn's

shy that drank of its waters, (Pseud. Arist. Mi-

rub. 109; Strab. vi. p. 263.) It is a considerable

stream, and has its sources in the Apennines near

Mur.iif, tlows beneath CastrociUort, and receives

several minor tributary streams before it joins the

Crathis. [E. H. B.]

COIN OF STBARIS.

SY'BOTA. [Corcyba, p. 670.]

SYBKITA (2vSprra, Scyl. p. 18; 2oteptTr,

Ptol. tii. 17. § 10; 2ov€ptTOS, literacies; HSvpros,

Polyb. op. Steph. B. $. r.; Eth. 2t€pintos, Biickh,

Corp. hutcr. vol. ii. p. 637), a town of Crete, 8 M. P.

from Kleulhema (/'rut. 7«6.), and famous for its

numerous and beautiful silver coins, which, though

some of them belong to a very early period, are the

finest specimens of the Cretan mint; the types are

always connected with the worship of Dionysus or

Hermes. (Eckhel, vol. ii. p. 320.) [K. B." J ]

SYCAM1NA (2Lwaptw»r miAij), a city of Pales­

tine, placed by Strabo between Acre ("Ami) and

Caesareia Palaestinae (Xrpdrwvos -wvpyot),the name

of which alone remained in his time. There were, he

Bays, many such ; of which he specifies this and Bu-

colou (Bovk6\o>v) and Crocodeilon (Kptnco&*l\t*y).

(Strab. xvi. p. 758.) It was here that Ptolemy La-

thyrus, son of Cleopatra, landed the army of 30,000

men whom he had brought from Cyprus to besiero

Ptolemais, which would impiy that it was not far

distant from Acre (Josephus, lib. xiii. 13. § 3).

The Itinerary of Antoninus makes it xxiv. M I1, from

Ptolemais, xx. M. P. from Caesareia; the Jerusalem

Itinerary xv. 51.P. fmm Ptolemaic, xvi. from Caesareia.

(Wesseling, pp. 149,584.) The last-named authority

places it at Mount Carmel, thereby justifying its iden­

tification with the modern Kaipha ox Haifa, followed

by Keichard, Manitcrt, and Kiepert, rather than with

Atlit, suggested by Lapie. Indeed the testimony of

Kuscbius would seem to be conclusive on this point,

