SAIS. 875 SAIS.

icfcwnt brick which surrounded the princip.il

tm iiogs of the cily was "0 feet thick, and pro-

eakly therefore it least 100 feet high. It enclosed

•a area 2325 fret in length by 1960 in breadth.

Bet >od this enclosure were also two large cemeteries,

«r t.c the citizens generally, and the other reserved

ix lim nobles and priests of the higher orders. In

■* respect the Saites differed from the other Ae-

rrptjans in their practice of interment. They buried

heir kings within the precinct* of their temples.

Tu tncoti of Amasis attracted the attention of He-

'-tin (ii. 169). and Psammitichus, the conqueror

t*.' i Kceasirof that monarch, was also buried within

>• walls of the temple of Neith.

>*a was one of the sacred cities of Aegypt: its

* i x ipal deities were Keith, who gave oracles there,  
04 Isii. The mysteries of the latter were cele-

nied annually with unusual pomp on the evening

* r'east of Lamps. Herodotus tenns this fes-  
wsi (ii. 59) the third of the great feasts in the

ir.-tjrfxn calendar. It was held by night; and

*r v >>ne intending to be present at the sacrifices  
ia» rr<iuired t« light a number of lumps in the open

lt around hi.s house. The lamps were small sau-

n> S.led with tall and oil, on which a wick floated,

*J afiirh continued to bum all night. At what  
■•mi of the year the feast of burning lamps was

•H fated Herodotus knew, but deemed it wrung to

C (ii. 68); it was, however, probably at either the

arnal or autumnal equinox, since it apparently had

■rrmce to one of the capital revolutions in the solar

i-rt. An itucription in the temple of Neith declared

v to he the Mother of the Sun. (Plutarch, It.A Orir.

154, ed. Wyttenbach; Proclus, in Timatum, p. 30.)

ria thus: " I am the things that have been, and

at are, and that will be; no one has uncovered my

iru; the fruit which I brought forth became the

in.* It is prxtbable, accordingly, that the kindling

the lamps referred to Neith as the author of light.

i trie **jne night apparently were performed what

* .Ve-rypiianf* designated the *4 Mysteries of Isis."  
.. »-n <nve of the supposed places of the interment

Uttris, for that is evidently the deity whom He-

utu will not name (ii. 171) when he says that

i« a burial-place of Aim at Sais in the temple

A'heoe. The mysteries were symbolical repre-

i'.i:.on» of the sufferings of Osiris, especially his

rurrnberxnent by Typhon. They were exhibited

ta* lake behind the temple of Neith. Portions

iv Uke may be still discerned near the hamlet

So. *i-Had jar.

tma was alternately a provincial city of the first

t-v tad the capital of Lower Aegypt. These

news in it» rank were probably the result of

i«..-»l revolutions in tlie l)elta. The nome and

J art aiud by Manetho to have derived their

I'LatioB from Saites, a king of the xviUh dynasty.

* xxmh dynasty was that of Bocchoris of Sais.  
a with dynasty contained nine Suite kings;

<./ law xjtriiitb Amyrtaeus the Saite is the only

a»n h: with him expired the Saite dynasty, B. c

a.

brrharh* the Wise, the son of Tnephactus (Diodor.

11 § 1, 79. <| 1), the Technatis of Plutarch {It.

Mr. p. 394; com p. At hen. x. p. 418; Aelian,

A. si. 11). and the Aegyptian I'thor, was re-

nab*" as a judge and legislator, and introduced,

cruitur to Diodorua, some important amendments

> ta* iwramercial laws of Sais. He was put to

ii w burning after revolting from Sabaco the

■» y i- During the Aetbiopian dynasty Sais

seems' to have retained its independence. The period

of its greatest prosperity was between B. c. 697—

524, under its nine native kings. Tlie strength of

Aegypt generally had been transferred from its

southern to its northern provinces. Of the Saite

monarchs of Aegypt Psammitichus and Amasis were

ths most powerful. Psammitichus maintained him­

self on the throne by his ("reek mercenaries. He

established at Sais the class of interpreters, caused

his own sons to be educated in Greek learning, and

encouraged the resort of Greeks to his capital. The

intercourse between Sais and Athens especially was

promoted by their worshipping the same deity —

Neith-Athene; and hence there sprung up, although

in a much later age, tlie opinion that Cecrops the

Saite led a colony to Athens. The establishment

of the Greeks at Cyrcne was Indirectly fatal to the

Saitic dynasty. Uaphris, Apriea. or Huphra, was

defeated by the Cyreniaiis, u. c 569; and his dis­

contented troops raised their commander Amasis of

Sionph to the throne. He adorned Sais with many

stately buildings, and enlarged or decorated the

temple of Neith; for he erected in front of it pro-

pylaea, which for their height and magnitude, and

the quality of tho stones employed, surpassed nil

similar structures in Aegypt. The stones were

transported from the quarries of El-Mokattam near

Memphis, and thence were brought also the colossal

figures and androsphinxes that adorned the Dromos.

To Sais Amasis transported from Klephantine a

monolithal shrine of granite, which Henxlotus espe­

cially admired (ii. 175). Though the ordinary

passage from Elephantine to Sais was performed in

twenty days, three years were employed in conveying

this colossal mass. It was, however, never erected,

and when Herodotus visited Aegypt was still lying

on the ground in front of the temple. It measured,

according to the historian, 30 feet in height, 12 feet

in depth from front to back, and in breadth 21 feet.

After the death of Amasis, Sais sank into comparative

obscurity, and does not seem hi have enjoyed the

favour of the Persian, Macedonian, or I'ornau masters

of Aegypt.

Sais indeed was more conspicuous as a seat of

commerce and learning, and of Greek culture gene­

rally, than as the seat of government Nechepsus,

one of its kings, has left a name for his learning

(Auson. Epigram. 409), and his writings on astro­

nomy are cited by Pliny (ii. 23. s. 21). Pythagoras

of Samos visited Sais in the reign of Amasis (comp.

Plin. xxxvi. 9. s. 14); and Sulon the Athenian con­

versed with Sunchis, a Saite priest, about the same

time (Plut. c"oton,26; Herod, ii. 177; Clinton, Fait.

Helkn. vol. ii. p. 9). At Sais, if we may credit

Plato t 7(,...«.(.., iii. p. 25), Solon heard the legend

of Atlantis, and of the ancient glories of Athens

some thousand years prior to Phoroneus and Niobo

and Deucalion's flood. The priests of Sais appear

indeed to have been anxious to ingratiate them­

selves with the Athenians by discovering resem­

blances between Attic and Aegyptian institutions.

Thus Diodorus (i. 28), copying from earlier nar­

ratives, says that the citizens of Sais, like those of

Athens were divided into eupatrids, or priest-nobles;

geomori, land-owners liable to military service;

and craftsmen or retail traders. He adds that in

each city the up[>er town was called Aslu. The

Greek population of Sais was governed, according to

Manetho, by their own laws and magistrates, and had

a separate quarter of the city assigned to them. So

strong indeed was the Hellenic clement in Sais that

