194 LINGONES. LIPARA.

(i. 31), on. account of the vituperative and injurious

language with which the worship was conducted.

This temple contained a painting of Heracles by

Parrhasius; and Lindus appears to have possessed

several other paintings by the same artist. (Atheu.

xii. p. 543, xv. p. 687.) Lindus also was the native

place of Cl.ubulus, one of the Seven Sages of Greece;

and Atlicnaeus (viii. p. 3G0) has preserved a pretty

poem ascribed to Cleubulus, and which the Lindian

boys used to sing as they went round collecting

money for the return of the swallows in spring.

The site of Lindus, as described by Strabo. " on

the side of a hill, looking towards the south and

Alexandria," cannot be mistaken ; and the modern

neat little town of Lindtw is exactly the sp 't oc­

cupied by the ancient Dorian city. The place ami

its many ancient remains have often been visited and

described, and most recently by Ross in his Iteistti

aufden Giiih. lutein, vols. iii. and iv., from which

it appears that ancient remains arc more and more

destroyed. There are many tombs cut in the rocks,

some of which have had beautiful architectural

ornaments; the remains of a theatre at the foot of

the hill; and on the acropolis are seen the ruins uf

two Greek temples, which, to judge from inscrip­

tions, belonged to the Liudian Athena and Zeus Po-

lieus. The number of inscriptions found at Lindus

is very considerable. (Comp. Ross, I. c. vol. iii. pp.

72, &c, vol iv. pp. 68. &c.; Hamilton, Raearchts,

vol. ii. pp. 55, &c.; Ji/iein. Museum, for 1845, pp.

161, &c.) [L. S.]

LTKGOXKS (\iyyovii). The form Aoyyvvts in

Ptolemy (ii. 19. § 9) may probably be a copyist's

error. In Polybius (ii. 17, ed. Bekker), A177t.nr is

a correction of AXyvvts, which appears to be the

MSS. reading, and was doubtless intended to be At-

yurts. In the old text of Strabo (p. 186) it is said

that the Arar (.Sat/ne) separates the Sequani from

the Aedui and Lincasii (Acytcatn'ot); but it is agreeu

that we ought to read Lingones, for Strabo names

the people Lingones in two other passages (pp. 193,

808).

The Lingones occupied the country about the

sources of the Marne and Stinr, and extended east­

ward to the Vosegus ( Yunji .1) (13. G. iv. 10). Caes;ir

does not state expressly whether they belonged to

Ccltica or to Belgica, but we may infer from what he

says that he considered them as included in Celtics

fGai.ua Ti-.ansalpisa, Vol. I. p. 962]. Strabo

p. 19.1) says: "Above n beyond the Helvetii and

Sequani, tlie Aedui and Lingones dwell to the west;

and beyond the Mediomatrici dwell the Leuci and

part of the Lingones." But the Leuci, whose capital

was Tullum (J'uul), are between the Mediomatrici

and the Lingones, and there is some error in this

pasiage of Strabo. The chief town of the Lingones

was Andomatunum, afterwards named Lingones, and

in the old French, I^angone or Lantjomne, and now

Langrtt, near the source of the Marne,. Dibio (/>i-

jon) was also in the territory of the Lingones, which

corresponded to the diocese of Langres, before the

diocese of Dijon was taken from it.

Ptolemy (ii 8) and Pliny (iv. 17) place the Lin­

gones in Belgica, which was true of the tiros when

they wrote.

The Lingones were one of the Celtic nations,

which, according to Roman tradition, sent a de­

tachment to settle in North Italy. [See the next

article.] Lucau (i. 397) represents the Lingones as

warlike, or fond of 6ghting, for which there is no

evidence in Caesar at least:—

"Castraque quae Vosegi curvam super ardoa rupea

Pugnaces pictis cohibebant Lingones arruie."

After Caesar had defeated the Helvetii in the gnat

battlo near Bibracte, the survivors fled into tbt

country uf the Lingones; "to whom Caesar aval

letters and a message to inform them that they must

not supply the Helvetii with corn, or help the:u ia

any way; and that if they did, he would treat tbem

like the Helvetii." (Ii. 0. i. 26.) It is plain fan

Caesar's narrative that this insolent order was obeyed.

When Caesar was at Vesontio (Ztesnnciw) on Lis

march against Ariovistus, the Sequani, Leuci, aad

Lingones supplied him with corn (B, G. i. 40).

During tho winter which followed the campa'.ra <*

B. c. 53, Caesar placed two legions in the coui.txy if

the Lingones, not to keep them in obedience, for they

never rose in arms against him, but because it was a

good position (B. G. vi. 44).

It is stated in Tacitus (Hist. i. 78) that Otbe

gave the "civitas Romans" to all the Lingones: bat

this passage is not free from difficulty. Galea l.s>i

lost the fidelity of the Treviri, Lingones. arid some

ot her Gallic states, by harsh measures or by depriving

them of part of their lands; and the Linguoe* and

others supported the jiarty of \'itellins in Gallia by

offering soldiers, horses, arms and money (Tacit. L

53, 59). It seems that Otho made the Lingooes a

present of the " civitas" in order to effect a divers**)

in his favour; but it remains to be explained, if

Tacitus's text is right, why he omitted the Tmiri

and others. Pliny calls the Lingones " Foederali."

Tliis nation, which during the whole Gallic war wa*

tranquil, even in tilt* year of Vercingetorix's great

struggle (B. G. vii. 63), liecamc very restleaa under

the Kmpire, as we see from Tacitus (/list. iv. 67*.

[Gallia Tbansau-lsa, Vol. I. p. 969.] [G. L.]

LINGONES (Aty/axei, Pol.), a tribe of Cisalpu*

Gauls, without doubt a colony or offset of the atorr

powerful Transalpine tribe of Uie same name, win.

according to Livy, migrated into Italy together witj

the Boii, and settled with them in the plains be­

tween the Apennines and the Padua. We lean

from Polybius, that they dwelt between the Boii and

the St'nones, apparently occupying the country ilui:

Hononia and as far eastward as the river Utis ( M<m-

tone), which was the northern limit of the Secooes.

(Liv. v. 35; Pol. ii. 17.) They seem to have been

in later times so closely associated with the B*u u

to be commonly considered as one nation; bc-Lce vr

do not meet with any separate mention of their

name in history, nor are they noticed by the geo­

graphers, [e! h. B.J

LINTOMAGUS. [Littomaoi'sJ

LINL'S (Aixoj). a place on the coast of Mysta.

on the Propontis, between Priapus and Parhun; it

is noticed only by Strabo (xiii. p. 588), as the spot

where the best snails («ox*'ai) were found. [L. N]

LrPARA(iAiwdfw: iii. AiTOfatei, Li]oren>u:

l.ipari), the largest and most important ot lite gri«jf>

of the Aeolian islands, between the roast of Sriii

and Italy. It had a town of the same name, and

was the only one i-f the whole group which was

inhabited, or at least that had any cotuideratl*

population. Hence the other islands ware aJ«»<»

de{icndent on it, and were swnetiuici ral.rvi ti

ancient times, as they habitually are at the jrarsi

day, tlie Liparaeau islands (at Atwapaim rs}wea,

Strab. vi. p. 275). Strabo correctly tells us that u

was the largest of the seven, and lite nearrat u» li.-

coast of Sicily except Tbermrsaa or Ultra (1 as­

