SCYTIHA. 941 SCVTHIA

•vr <i the Servile War of Whips belongs to this

ml

Vlxn the approach of Darius becomes threaten.

T, tfce (rtiooi, Bndini, and Sanromatae join with

» Srrthius in resisting it; the Agsthyrsi, Neuri,

:.cro|<up, Melanchlaeni, and Tauri reserving

iwItw foe the defence of their own territory if

xiri (vi. 119). To the three constituents of

t roafederscy there are three kings, Scopasis,

jab Trias, and Taxacis, each with an allotted

Krkt to defend. This was done by destroying the

m ind tillage, driving off the flocks and herds, and

Ttp6ag (we can scarcely translate trvyxov by

»«•;) the wells. The points whereon attack was

»paled were the frontiers of the Danube and

i Om. These they laid waste, having sent their

n >iret and children northwards. The first

nt <( the war fell upon the Budini, whose

»in CKy was burnt. Darius then moved south-

ti and westward, pressing the other two divi-

i> opm the countries of the Melanchlaeni, Neuri,

I Ar*thyrsi. The latter warn the Modes against

ruH'hiog on the frontier. Idanthyrsus answers

m Jlieally to a defiance of Darius. Scopasis tam-

■ with the lonians who have the custody of the

in ever the Danube. The Medea suffer from

nh, and determine to retreat across the Danube,

i Srrthiins reach the passage before them, and

ins the Ionian to give it up. And now ap­

es, for lbs first time, the great name of Miltiades,

i is one of the commanders of the guard of the

ire. He advises that the Scythians should be

niuted, Darius weakened. A half-measure is

|t-d. by which the Scythians are taught to dis-

t the lonians, and toe Medea escape into Thrace

• rating the Scythian invasion of Darius. (Herod.

U0-U1.)

'attorn of the fferodotean Accounts.—The

o» of H erode* da upon the Scythae, thongh full,

<xairare rather than systematic. Part of their

■7 appears aa Lydian, part as Scythian Proper,

st n tnuih legend in his accounts; but the chief

vitas are in the geograpliy. Even here the de-

1 ire irregular. One notice arises out of the

• S-rtbae, another oat of the geography of their

it, t third oat of the sketch of Tauris. [See

t>» and Tafrosctthae.] In this we hear

vrthia is bounded first by the Agathyrsi,

sy the Kenri, then by the Androphagi, and

J by the Melanchlaeni. The area is four-

■rsd; the longest sides being the prolongations

E U.e coast and towards the interior. From the

'Is the Boryslhenes is 10 days: 10 days more

- lUaxis; from the coast to the Melanchlaeni,  
!»»•;—200 stadia to each day's journey. If

s>-*«uremtnt be exact, it would bring Tula,

•W, Kiamrn, Sec, within tlie Scythian area,—

>> .< coing too far. The days' journeys inland

■f nimbly shorter than those along the coast.

>• Agathyrsi were in Trunxylcania, on the

■"• The evidence, or want of evidence, as far

• text hi* Herodotus goes, is the same as it is

the Neuri. Their frontagers were known as

bae Aracerea, i. e.. the generic name was with

1 ipxific Hence any Scythians whatever with a

A- name must have been contrasted with them;

'■Im mm to have been the case with the Aga-

*■ [Hcmn, p. 1097.] Assuming, how-  
'•hf Agathvrsi to have been Scythian, and to

•*n an the JUaroe, we carry the Herodotean

^- is far west as the Thau; nor can we ex­

clude them from any part of WaUachia and ifol.

davia. Yet these are only known to Herodotus as

the country of the Sigynnes. The frontier, then,

between the Scythae and Getae is difficult to draw.

Herodotus has no Getae, eo nomine, north of the

Danube.- yet such there must have been. Upon

the whole, we may look upon the Danubian Princi­

palities as a tract scarcely known to Herodotus, and

make it Scythian, or Getic, or mixed, according to

the evidence of other writers, as applicable at the

time under consideration. It was probably Getic in

the East, Sarmatian in the West, and Scythian in

respect to certain districts occupied by intrusive

populations.

Thucydides mentions the Getae and Scythians

but once (ii. 96), and that together. The great

alliance that Sitalces, king of Thrace, effects against

Perdiccas of Macedon includes the Getae beyond

Mount Haemua, and, in the direction of the Euxine

sea, the Getae who were conterminous (S^opoi) with

the Scythians, and whose armour was Scythian

(o/xdirKcvoi). They were each archers and horse­

men (iwiroTo|oTeu); whereas the Dii and the moun­

taineers of Rhodope wore daggers. According to Ovid

(7 ru/. v. 7. 19), the occupants of the level country

do so too :—

"Dextera non segnis fixo dare vulnera cnltro,

Quem vinctum lateri barbara omnis habet"

The Scythians of the Macedonian Pebiod.

— Passing over tho notices of Xenophon, which

apply to Thrace Proper rather than to the parts

north of Mount Haemns, and which tell us nothing

concerning the countries beyond the Danube,—

passing, also, over the notices of a war in which

Philip king of Macedon was engaged against Athcas,

and in which he crossed Mount Haemus into the

country of the Triballi, where he received a wound,

— we come to the passage of the Danube by Alex­

ander. In the face of an enemy, and without a bridge,

did the future conqueror of Persia cross the river,

defeat the Getae on its northern bank, destroy a (own,

and return. (Arrian, Anab. i. 2—7.) This was

an invasion of Scythia in a geographical sense only;

still it was a passage of the Danube. The Getae of

Alexander may have been descendants of the Sigynne*

of Herodotus. They were not, eo nomine, Scythians.

When Alexander was on the Danube the famous

embassy of the Galutac reached him. They hail

heard of his fame, and came to visit him. They

were men of enormous stature, and feared only that

the heavens should fall. This disappointed Alex­

ander, who expected that they would fear Aim.

Much has been written concerning the embassy as

if it came from Gaul. Yet this is by no means ne­

cessary. Wherever there is a Jfalicz or Galaez in

modem geography, there may have been a Galat-inn

locality in ancient; just as,wherever there is a Ker~

man or C<irman~\:\. there may have been a German

one, and that without any connection with the Galli

or Germani of the West. The roots G-l-t and

K-ron-n, are simply significant geographical terms

in the Sarmatian and Turk tongues — tongues to

which the Getic and Scythian may most probably

be referred.

Such is the present writer's opinion respecting

the origin of the statements that carry certain

Galatae as far as the Lower Danube, and make the

liasternae, and even the occupants of the Tanais,

Germans — not to mention the Caramanians of A*ia

Minor and Carmaniaus of Persia. In the present

