liOMA. 843 HOMA.

v riraVns of the Domitian family arc frequently

■tueed in inscriptions; and those who are curious

erring tbfir history will find a long account of

r. is I'rrller's Reniosxn (p. 207, seq.). They

mi to hare existed under the same name in the

'of AnreUan. (Vopisc. Aurel. 49.) In the

r liatrirt were also the Horti Aorippinae.

came into the possession of her son, Ca-

.1. who built a circus in them, afterwards

-.' the Circus Xeronis. It will be treated of in  
her action; and we shall only mention here

tin was the place in which the Christians,

sc previously been wrapped in the tunica

*ta or picata, were burnt, to serve as torches  
ti? midnight games. (Tac. Ann. xv. 44.)

the gardens mentioned came into the possession

crj. aiid may therefore hare also been called

in Xerosis. (Tac. lb. and c. 39.)

be aeirbbnurhood seems to have been a chosen

fst the sepulchres of the great. One of them,

maid larger than the still existing monument

«:.na, existed till the end of the 15th century,

«*, absurdly regarded sometimes as the »e-

RjmuJt, sometimes as the sepulcrwn Sci-

ir A/ricomi. It appears from notices belonging

» cuddle ages that on or near the spot where

iter's now stands, there was anciently a Tkm-

I AroLUSIB, or more probably of Sol. (Anas-

l, fit SUoestri, p. 42; Montf. Diar. L p.

ir-j;; thai gone over the various districts of

ay, and noted the principal objects of interest

: tfcey contained, wc shall now proceed to give

roast of certain objects which, from tlieir

usee, their general similarity, and the small-

of their number, may be most conveniently

s together and treated of in distinct sections,

are, —(1) the structures destined for public

i and spectacles, as the Circi, Theatres, and

: iealres; (2) the Thermae or Baths; (3) the

■; sad, (4) the Aqueducts.

( rroeral characteristics of these objects have

m rally described in the Dictionary of A ri­

ms that it will be unnecessary to repeat the

bum here, and we shall therefore confine

to what may be called their topographical

y. that is, an account of their origin and

■a, their situation, size, and other similar

tan.

'. Tax Cirxt, Tnr.ATR.Es, A.-»n A.Mrin-

THBATRES.

and charuit races were the earliest kind of

>-w known at IConie. The principal circus in

theaa sport* were exhibited, and which by

'Cfr-emtnence over the others caine ultimately

iv.mzuitheai by tiie title of Cmcrs Maxi-

ras fVwmifd, ms we have already related, by

Irr Tanraia, in the valley between the I'alatine

ttat That king, however, probably did little

am keel sod mark out the ground; for certain

irnatl il were assigned to the patricians and

B, aaal to the 34> curiae, on which, at tho time

ruas. tLey erected their own seats or scaf-

caliol tptetaetUn ami fori. (Liv. L 35 : cf.

k ui. 68.) According to Livy, the same

i rsatisned to prevail under 1'arquinina Su-

(A c 5*); though Dionysius represents

xnuch as surrounding the circus with por­

ticoes (iv. 44). It was not till the year B. c. 228

that carceres for the chariots were built. (Liv.

viii. 20.) We cannot tell what the original number

of carceres may have been, but it was probably

adapted to that of the chariots which started in the

race. According to Tertullian (dc Spect 9) there

were originally only two Circensian factions, or

colours, the albata and russata—that is, winter

and summer; but these distinctions of colours and

factions do not seem to have been known till the

time of the Kinpire. Joannes Lydus (de Mens.

ir. 25, Beck.) states the original number of tho

factions to have been three, the russata, albata and

prasina; and this seems to agree with the following

passage in Cicero—if, indeed, it is to be interpreted

strictly, and is anything more than a fortuitous

coincidence: "Neque enim in qnadrigis eum se­

cundum numeraverim, aut tertium, qui vix e car-

ceribus exierit, cum palmam jam primus acceperit."

{Brut. 47.) However this may be, we know that

in the early part of the Empire there were four

colours, though by whom the fourth, or peneta, was

added, cannot be said. Domitian added two more

the aurora and purpurata (Suct./)om. 7), but these

do not seem to have come into customary use. The

usual mums, or start, consisted of four chariots, as

we leant from Virgil with the note of Servius : —

"Centum quadrijugos agitabo ad flumina currus"

(fieorg. iii. 18);

where the commentator remarks from Varro:—" M

est, unius diei exhibebo circenses ludos, quia, ut

Varro dicit in libris de gente pipuli Romani, olim

xxv. missus fieljant." It appears probable that

the carceres were twice the number of the chariots

which started, in order to afford egress to those

which had fini.-.hed the course, whilst fresh cha­

rioteers were waiting in those which were closed to

begin a new course (v. Becker, de Muris, p. 87).

Thus in the Lyons mosaic eight carceres are repre­

sented; but in the Circus Muximus, after the in­

crease of the factions to six, there were probably

twelve carceres; and such also appears to have

been the number in the circus on the Via Appifl.

(Cf. Cassiod. Far. iii. 51.) Tho Circns Maximus

seems to have remained in a very rude and im­

perfect state till the time of Julius Caesar. He

increased it by adding to both its extremities;

and its site when thus enlarged appears to have

been 3 stadia in length and 1 in breadth. Caesar

also surrounded it with a canal, called Knurrs, in

order to protect the spectators from the fury of the

elephants; but this was filled up by Nero and con­

verted into seats for the equites, whose increased

numbers probably required more accommtxlation.

(Suet. Cats. 39; Plin. viii. 7, xxxvi. 24. a. 1.)

The description of the circus by Dionysius (iii. 68)

is the clearest and longest we possess, but the

measurements which he gives differ from those

of Pliny, as he makes it 3} stadia long and 4

plethra. or jjds of a stade, broad. But perhaps these

authorities may be reconciled by assuming that one

took the inner and the other the outer circumference.

The reader will find a lengthened examination of

these different measures in Canina's Irulicazione

Topogrujica. p. 491, seq. In Caesar's circus it

was only the lower rows of seats that were built of

stone; the upfier rows were of wood, which accounts

for the repeated fires that happened there. The

first of these occurred in B.C. 31, a little before

the battle of Actium, and destroyed a considerable

