526 PALAESTINA. PALAESTINA

neemed to be constantly bubbling and in motion.

(Molyneux, p. 129; Lynch, pp. 288, 289.) And

even the marvellous fact mentioned byJosephua, of

the sea changing its colour three times a day, may

derive some countenance from testimonies already

cited, but more especially from the following notice

of Lieut. Lynch: —" At one time, to-day, the sea

assumed an aspect peculiarly .sombre. . . . The great

evaporation enveloped it in a thin, transparent

vapour, its purple tinge contrasting strangely with

the extraordinary colour of the sea beneath, and,

where they blended in the distance, giving it the

appearance of smoke from burning sulphur. It

seemed a vast caldron of metal, fused but motion­

less" (p. 324): "in the forenoon it had looked like

a sheet of foam;' In the afternoon, of the same day,

it "verified the. resemblance which it has been said

to bear to molten lead;" "at night it had the exact

hue of absinthe" (p. 276). The earlier testimony

of Prince Kadzivil may also he adduced, who, after

citing Joseph us, adds, that he had had ocular proof

of the fact: "Nam mane habebat aquam nigrican-

tetn; meridie, sole intenso (sunt enim calores hie

maximi) instar panni fit caerulea: ante occasum,

ubi vis caloris remittit, tanquam limo permixta,

modice rubet, vcl potius flavescit." (Itrosolymitana

i'eregrituitiOi p. 96.) A familiarity acquired by

three weeks' diligent examination did not remove

the feeling of awe inspired by its marvels: "So

sudden are the changes of the weather, and so dif­

ferent the aspects it presents, as at times to seem as

if we were in a world of enchantments. We are

alternately beside and upon the brink and the sur­

face of a huge and sometimes seething caldron."

(Lieut. Lynch, Bib. Sua: vol. v. p. 768.)

5. Bitumen. — It is to be regretted that the

American expedition has thrown no new light on

the production of the asphalt for which this sea was

once so famous. Along almost the whole of the

west coast numerous fragments of this substance

are found among the pebbles, but there is no record

of any considerable masses or fields of it being seen

by any European travellers in modern times; urdess,

as is suggested by Irby and Mangles, the imaginary

islands may be so regarded. Hut it is curious that

the traditions of the natives still confirm the notice

of Strabo that drops of pitch are distilled from rocks

on the eastern shore;—a story repeated by various

Arab sheikhs to Seetzen, Burckbardt, and Itobinson,

the last of whom also mentions the fact of their be­

lief that the large masses of bitumen appear only

after earthquakes. Thus, after the earthquake of 1B34,

a large quantity was thrown upon the shore near

the south-western part of the sea, of which one tribe

brought about 60 kuntars into market (each k untax

= 98 lbs.); and that after the earthquake of Jim.

1st, 1837, a large mass of bitumen (one said like an

island, another like a house) was discovered Moating

on the sea, and was driven aground on the west side,

not far to the north of Vsdum, The Arabs swam

oil" to it, and cut it up with axes so as to bring it

ashore; as Tacitus tells us was done in his times,

though he mentions what he considered the less pro­

bable account of its flowing as a black liquid into

the ships in a perpetual stream. (Robinson, Bib.

Res. vol. ii. pp. 228—2:11.) That the water of

this sea is destructive of all animal life, as all

the ancients held, seems sufficiently proved; for

although shells have been found on the shore, they

hive been evidently washed down by the Jordan

or other fresh water streams, and their inmates de-

stroyed by the sea water; while the bird*

have been occasionally seen on its surface ci»t m

regarded as denizens of th«we same stmm»: iad w

animal life has been discovered in its waters.

V. Volcanic PkaevomeSj.

Something must now be said of the variocs tie*

ries by which it has been attempted to arena,! tJ

the wonderful phaenomena above recorded rt" tat to

prcsMon of the Ghor, or Valley of the Jordan; m

of the formation and physical ccnttitarm rf U

Dead Sea, All theories suppose volcanic if?^

and it is worthy of observation that. wl,;> n* i'

liest historical and poetical records r<f the pti

bear witness to a familiarity with such ph-^n^n

the existing geological monuments cm linn the

mony. Independently of the igneous aceucy by *,>*

the cities of the plain were destroyed, math '.!

descriptive imagery of the psalmists ard prophea

borrowed from voleanos and earthquakes; «ii

there are evidences of an earthquake of t*tt

and probably destructive violence during the m

of Uzziah, king of Judah, which formed a Vi-i

era in the history of the country, being allavd

after an interval of 300 years. (.-1 m*. \. 1:

riah, xiv. 5.) The existing phaenomena

briefly mentioned, beginning with one recenm I

covered by the American explorers, of wfr m ~ 1

Aultck reports a volcanic formatioil on ti»e *

shore, and brought specimens of lava" (p

The mountain known as Jebrl Afusn. at lb*

east of the Dead Sea, composed entirely of bfc

bituminous limestone, which burns like cm!, fan

been investigated so fully as it deserves: bat

basaltic columns in the vicinity of the sei t*

bcrias have been frequently noticed by tia*s2

The thermal fountains of CallirrhoS, Gaiirx.

Tiberias complete the chain of evidence, ard rvj

it highly probable that the extinct volcano n «

Dr. Robinson at a abort distance north-west vf &

the Frank Mountain, and others, may La":

active during the historical period,and funu.-j*J

poets and prophets with the sublime miaerry df

bible. Having then discovered the ir-st j

geological changes that the country ii-t* '*

through, it may be interesting to hear tr.e t^m

two eminent and scientific writers on the {

problem under consideration.

Kussegger, who has himself carefully rif"^

phaenomena of the country and tested the 4

vations of preceding travellers, thus muss tj

results (Rcisen, p. 205); —

"From its exit from the hike of Tiberias to id

trance into the Dead Sea tlic Jordan ha* i "3

716 Paris feet and thus lies at the l»rt*r

1341 Paris feet below the level of the Mwirt

nean sea. At the southern extremity tfe»

Sea lie the marshy lowlands of tt'acfy-W-Cr**

commencement of W'afly-tLA raba^ and afpftf

very little higher than the IVad SVm i;«it. 1

lowlands join Wady-tt-Aruba, t-lie bed of 1

rises gently to the watershed which sev«raM

water system of the Dead Sea from that <A tot

Sea. As the watershed of \i'a>fy-*l~A naon *

rently of no considerable height above the a*

the sea, the length of this remarkable dtr*

may be reckoned from the northern extrecrutT i

plain BL-Bntihth (to the north of the »ea «f

rias) to this watershed, a distance of fail tfcni

grees. AH the rm*k of this region cor-sist* .J

mal formations, amongst which Lfcosc of tbc Jti

