ICTODURUM.

IDALIA, IDALIUM. 13

Probahlv, however, there is a confusion between the

Isle of Wight, the Isle of Portland, the Scilly Isle*,

and the isle just mentioned; since the name is sus­

piciously like Vectu, the physical conditions heiug

different. This view is confirmed by the text of

Pliny (iv. 30), wiio writes, "Timaeus historicus a

Britannia introrsns sex dierum navigations abesse

dicit insulam Mictim in qua candidum plumbum

prareniat; ad earn BritAnos vitilibus navigiis corio

circuinsutis navigare." [Ii. G. L. 1

ICTODURUM, in Gallia. The Antonine Itin.

places Caturiges (Charges') on the road between

Ebrodunum (Embrun) and Vapincnm (Gap); and

the Table adds Ictodurum between Caturigomagus,

which is also Charge; and Vapincum. We may

infer from the name that Ictodurum is some stream

between Charges and Gap; and the Table places

it half-way. The road distance is more than the

direct line. By following the road from either

of these places towards the other till we come to

the stream, we shall ascertain its position. D'An-

ville names the small stream the Vence; and

Widckenaer names the site of Ictodurum, La

Bastide VicUle. [G. L.]

ICULISMA, a place in Gallia, mentioned by Au-

sonius (Ep. xv. 22) as a retired and lonely spot

where his friend Tetradius, to whom he addresses

this poetical epistle, was at one time engaged in

teaching: —

"Quondam docendi munere adstrictum gravi

Iculisma cum te absconderct."

It is assumed to be the place called Civitas Etolis-

mensium in the Notitia Prov. Gall., which is Atvjou-

Umt, in the French department of Charenle, on the

river Charente. [G.L.]

ICL'S ("hcos: Eth.'lmos), one of the group of

islands off the coast of Magnesia in Thessaly, lay near

Peparethus, and was colonised at the same time by the

Cnouians of Crete. (Scymn. Chius, 582; Strab. ix.

p. 436; Appian, B. C. v. 7.) The fleet of Attalus

and the Ithodians sailed past Seyms to Icus. (I.iv.

xxxi. 45.) Phanodemus wrote an account of this

insignificant island. (Steph. B. s. v.) It is now

called Sarakuio. (Leake, Northern Greece, vol. iii.

p. 312.)

IDA IDAEUS MONS (r, "IS», ISa: Ida), a

range of mountains of Pbrygia, belonging to the sys­

tem of Mount Taurus. It traverses western Mysia

in many branches, whence it was compared by the

ancients to the scolopendra or milliped (Strab. xiii.

p. 583), its main branch extending from the south­

east to the north-west; it ia of considerable height,

the highest point, called Gargarus or Gargaron,

rising about 4650 feet above the level of the sea.

The greater part is covered with wood, and Con­

tains the sources of innumerable streams and many

rivers, whence Homer (IL viii. 47) calls the moun­

tain roAwriSaf. In the Homeric poems it is also

described as rich in wild beasts. (Comp. Strab.

xiii. pp. 602, 604 ; Horn. II. ii. 824, vi. 283, viii.

170, xi. 153, 196; Allien, xv. 8; Hor. Od. iii. 20.

15; PtoL v. 2. § 13; Plin. v. 32.) The highlands

about Zeleia formed the northern extremity of Mount

Ida, while Lectum formed its extreme point in the

south-west. Two other subordinate ranges, parting

fnan the principal summit, the one at Cape Khoe-

teum, the other at Sigeuin, may be said to enclose

the territory of Troy in a crescent; while another

central ridge between the two, separating the valley

of the Scamander from that of the SimoU, gave to

the whole the form of the Greek letter t. (Demetr.

ap. Strab. xiii. p. 597.) The principal rivers of

which the sources are in Mount Ida, are the Siniois,

Scamander, Granicus, Aesepus, Rhodius, Caresus,

and others. (Horn. II xii. 20, foil.) The highest

peak, Gargarus, affords an extensive view over the

Hellespont, Propontis, and the whole surrounding

country. Besides Gargarus, three other high peaks

of Ida are mentioned: viz. Cotylus, about 3500 feet

high, and about 150 stadia above Scepsis; Pytna;

and Ditto. (Strab. xiii. p. 472.) Timosthenes (ap.

Steph. B. t. v. ,AAc{<u'5>«ia) and Strabo (xiii. p.

606) mention a mountain belonging to the range of

Ida, near Antandrus, which bore the name of Alex­

andria, where Paris (Alexander) was believed to

have pronounced his judgment as to the beanty of

the three goddesses. (Comp. Clarke's Travels, ii.

p. 134; Hunt's Journal in Walpole's Turkey, i. p.

120; Cramer's Asia Minor, i. 120.) [L. S.]

IDA 0*J. PtoL iii. 17. § 9 ; Pomp. Mela, ii. 7.

§ 12; Plin. iv. 12, xvi. 33 ; Virg. Aen. iii. 105;

Solin. iig Avien. 676; Prise 528), the central and

loftiest point of the mountain range which tra­

verses the island of Crete throughout the wholo

length from W. to E. In the middle of the island,

where it is broadest (Strab. x. pp. 472, 475, 478),

Mt. Ida lifts its head covered with snow. (Thec-

phrast. II. P. iv. 1.) The lofty summits termi­

nate in three peaks, and, like the main chain of

which it is the nucleus, the offshoots to the N. slope

gradually towards the sea, enclosing fertile plains

and valleys, and form by their projections the nu­

merous bays and gulfs with which the coast is in­

dented. Mt. Ida, now called PsUoriti, sinks down

rapidly towards the SE. into the extensive plain

watered by the Lethaeus. This side of the mountain,

which looks down upon the plain of Mesara, is co­

vered with cypresses (comp. Theophrast. de Vent.

p. 405; Dion. Perieg. 503; Eustath. ad. loo.), pines,

and junipers. Mt. Ida was the locality assigned for

the legends connected with the history of Zeus, and

there was a tavern in its slopes sacred to that deitv.

(Diod. Sic. v. 70.)

The Cretan Ida, like its Trojan namesake, was

connected with the working of iron, and the Idaean

Dactyls, the legendary discoverers of metallurgy, are

assigned sometimes to the one and sometimes to the

other. Wood was essential to the operations of

smelting and forging; and the word Ida, an appella­

tive for any wood-covered mountain, was used per­

haps, like the German berg, at once far a mountain

and a mining work. (Kenrick, Aegypt of Herodotus,

p. 278; Hock, Kreta, vol. i. p. 4.) [E. B. J.]

I'DACUS ("ISami), a town of the Thracian

Chersonese, mentioned by Thucydides (viii. 104) in

his account of the manoeuvres before the battle of

Cynossema, and not far from Akrhiax a. Although

nothing whatever is known of these places, yet. as

the Athenians were sailing in the direction of the

Propontis from the Aegaean, it would appear that

Idacus was nearest the Aegaean, and Arrhiana fur­

ther up the Hellespont, towards Sestus and the Pro­

pontis. (Arnold, ad loc.) [E. B. J.]

IDALIA, IDA'LIUM ('ISoAiov: Eth. 'liaKtvs,

Steph. B.; Plin. v. 31), a town in Cyprus, adjoining

to which was a forest sacred to Aphrodite; the poe;a

who connect this place with her worship, give no in­

dications of the precise locality. (Theocr. Id. xv.

100; Virg. Aen. i. 681, 692, x. 51; Catull. fel. et

Thet. 96; Propert. ii. 13; Lucan, viii. 17.) Engel

(Kypros, vol. i. p. 153) identifies it with Dalin, de-

