1 (2 LATIUM. LATIUM.

where its waters add to the stagnation. But the

principal agents in the formation of those extensive

marshes are the Ufkns and the Amasenus, both

of them flowing from the Volscian mountains and

uniting their waters before they reach the sea. They

still retain their ancient names. Of the lesser .st reams

of Latium, which flow into the'l iber, we need only

mention the celebrated Alma, which falls into that

river about 11 miles above Rome; the Almo, a

still smaller stream, which joins it just below the

city, having previously received the writers of the

Aqua Ferkntina (now called the Marrana ikgli

Ortt), which have their source at the foot of the

Alban Hills, near Marino; and the Kivcs Alba­

nia (still called the Rico Alixtno), which carries otf

the snperHnous waters of the Alban lake to the

Tiber, about four miles below Rome.

The mountains of Latium, as already mentioned,

may be classed into three principal groups:—(I) the

Apennines, properly so called, including the ranges

at the back of Tihur and Praeneste, as well as the

mountains of the Aequians and Hernicans; (2) the

group of the Alban Hills, of which the central and

loftiest summit (the Monte. Cava) was the proper

Mods Albanus of the ancients, while the part which

faced Praeneste and the VoUeian Mountains was

known as the Mons Algidcs; (3) the lofty group

or mass of the Volscian Mountains, frequently called

by modern geographers the Monti Ltpini, though

we have no ancient authority for this use of the

won!. The name of Mons Lepinus occurs only in Co­

lumella (x. 131), as that of a mountain in the neigh­

bourhood of Signia. The Months Cokmci lam

(ra Kopt-ijcAa o^ta, Dhmys. i. lfi) must evidently

have been the detached group of outlying peaks,

wholly separate from the main range of the Apen­

nines, now known as the MonticcHL situated between

the Tiber and the Monte Gennaro. The Mons

Sackk, so celebrated in Roman history, was a lucre

hill of trilling elevation above the adjoining plain,

situated on the right Lank of the Anio, close to the

Via Nomentana.

It only remains to enumerate the towns or cities

which existed within the limits of Latium; but as

many of these had disappeared at a very early period,

and all trace of their geographical position is lost, it

will l)e necessary in the first instance to confine this

li>t to places of which the site is known, approxi­

mately at least, reserving the more obscure names

tor subsequent consideration.

Beginning from the mouth of the Tiber, the hr-t

place is Ostia, situated on the left bank of the

river, and, as its name imports, originally close to its

mouth, though it is now three miles distant from it

A short distance from the coast, and about 8 mile-,

from Ostia. was LauRENTUM, the reputed capital

of the Aborigines, situated probably at Torre di

Patenib, or at least in that immediate neighbour­

hood. A few miles furl her S., but considerably

more inland, being near 4 miles from the sea, was

Lavinu m, the site of which may be clearly re­

cognised at Prat ha. S. of this again, and about

the same distance from the sea, was Aroka, which

retains its ancient name: and la miles further, on a

projecting point of the coast, was Anth'M, still

called Porto <f Anzo. Between 9 and 10 miles

further on along the coa^t, was the town or village of

Astcka, with the islet of the same name; and from

them e a long tract of barren sandy coast, without n

village and almost without inhabitants, extended to

the Circeian promontory and the town of Circkh,

which was generally reckoned the list place in

Latium Proper, Returning to Rome as a centre, we

find N. of the city, and between it and the Sabine

, frontier, the cities of Antemnae, Fipenak, Cri s-

I tumekium, and Momentum. On or around tie

! group of the Montes Corniculaui, were minted

CoitNici'LUM, Medullia, and Amerioia: Ca*

1 MKitlA, also, may probably be placed in the sain*

I neighbourhood; and a little nearer Rome, on the

mad leading to Momentum, was Ficitlea. At tbc

foot, or rather on the lower slopes and underulU

of the main range of the Apennines, were Tim e,

Aesula, and Praeneste, the latter occupying a

J lofty spur or projecting point of the A pennies,

I standing out towards the Alban Hills. This latter

I group was surrounded as it w ere with a cr -wn or

\ circle of ancient towns, beginning with Coebw

I ( Rocca Priore), nearly opposite to Praeneste, and

continued on by Tt'SCtxuM, Alba, and Aricia,

to Lanl'viim and Vklitrak, the hist two situated

on projecting offshoots from the central pronp,

standing out towards the Pontine Plains. On the

skirts of the Volscian mountains or Monti luptti,

were situated Signia, Cora, Norba. and Setia,

the last three all standing on commanding heights,

looking down upon the plain of the Pontine Marshes.

In that plain, ami immediately adjoining the mars he*

themselves, was Ulcbrae, and in all probability

Sl*kssa Pometia also, the city which gave nann

both to the marshes and plain, but the precise site of

which is unknown. The other places within the

marshy tract, such as Fokoi Arrn, Tues Tabei:-

nak, and Thiponticm, owed their existence to the

construction of the Via Appia, and did nut represent

■ or replace ancient Latin towns. In the level tract

I bordering on the Pontine Plains on the and ei-

| tending from the foot of the Alban Hills tuwardj

Antiuin and Ardea, were situated Satrictm,

Longi'LA, PoLLUSCA and CoitioLt: all of tbem

places of which tlie exact site is still a mattrr>>f

; doubt, but which must certainly be sought in this

neighbourhood. Between the Lauremine repioe

(Laurens tractus), as the forest district near the ?**

was often called, and the Via Appia, was an open

level tract, to which (or to a part of which) the

name of Campcs Solo.nivs was given; and within

the limits of this district were situated Teu.enak

and Poutoritm, as well as probably ApiolaK.

Bovillae, at the foot of the Alban lulls, and jost

on the S. of the Appian Way, was at one ex­

tremity of the same tract, while FlOAJfA Stood

at the other, immediately adjoining the Tiber, In

the portion of the plain of the Campaffna extending

from the line of the Via Appia to the foot of the

Apennines, between the Anio and the Alban Hills

the only city of which the site is known was Gami.

12 miles distant from Rome, and the same distance

from PraeneMe. Nearer the Apennines were Scat-

tia and Pedum, as well as probably Qt/ERQir-

tula; while Labickm occupied the hill of La Co-

Imna, nearly at the foot of the Alban pmup. In

tiie tract which extends southwards between the

Apennines at Praeneste and the Alban ildl>, so as

to connect the plain of the Campagna with the laj d

of the Hernicans in the valley of the Trerus or

Sacco, were situated Vitellia, Tolei:ii m, and pro­

bably also Bola and Oktona; though the exact sS:e

of all four is a matter of doubt. KcETRA, w hich ap-

pears in history as a Volscian city, and is never men­

tioned as a Latin one, must nevertheless have bet-n

situated within the limits of the Latin territory, **,>-

