LESS A. 167 LEUCA.

The pastures on this mountain produced good cheese

in Pliny's time (J7.JV.xi. 42), as they do now.

Moml L<izlre gives its name to the Frencli depart­

ment Insert, [G. L.]

LESSA (A^ffo-a), a Tillage of Epidauria, upon

the confines of the territory of Argos, and at the

foot of Mount Arachnaeura. Pausanias saw there

a temple of Athena. The ruins of Lessa are situated

opon a hill, at the foot of which is the village of

Lyhtrio. On the outside of the walls, near the

fixt of the mountain, are the remains of an ancient

pyramid, near a church, which contains some Ionic

crfamns. (Pans. ii. 25. § 10; Leake, Morea,

voL ii. p. 419; Boblaye, Reckerches, $c. p. 53;

Cortius, PeJopontiesos, vol. ii. p. 418.)

LESTADAE. [Naxos.]

LE'SURA, a branch of the Moselln (Motel), men­

tioned by Ausonius (MoteUa, v. 365). He calls it

"•exilis," a poor, ill-fed stream. The resemblance

of name leads us to conclude that it is the Lexer or

Xiue, which flows past Wittlick, and joins the Motel

an tbe left bank. [G. L.]

LETANDROS, a small island in the Aegaean

*ea, near Amorgos, mentioned only by Pliny (iv.  
12. a. S3).

LETE (Arrrrii EtH. Anraios), a town of Mace­

donia, which Stephanus B. asserts to have been the

tatire city of Kowchofl, the admiral of Alexander

the Great; but in this he is certainly mistaken, as

N rare has was a Cretan. (Comp. Arrian, Intl. 18;

Dwd. xix. 19.) [E. B. J.]

COIN OF LETE.

LETHAXUS (Aij&uoj, Strab. x. p. 478; Ptol.

iiL 17. § 4; Eustath. ad Horn. II. ii. 646; Solin.

17; Vib. Seq. 13), the large and important river

•hirh watered the plain of Gortvna in Crete, now

the Mabgmiti. [E. B. J.]

LETHAEUS (Ai)0suot), a small river of Caria,

which has its sources in Mount Pact yes, and after a

abort course from north to south discharges itself

into the Macandcr, a little to the south-east of Mag­

nesia. (Strab. xii. p. 554, xiv. p. 647; Athen. xv.

f»-683) Arundcll (Seven Churches, p. 57) describes

th* river which he identifies with the ancient Lc-

tWus,as a torrent rushing along over rocky ground,

and forming many waterfalls. [L. S.]

LETflES FL. [Galeaecia.]

LETOTOLIS (AtttoOs wo'A*j. Ptol. iv. 5. § 46;

Anrovr, Stepb. B. *. v.; Letus, Itin. Anton, p. 156:

Etk. ArrrQwo^irns), a town in Lower Egypt, near

the apex of the Delta, the chief of the nomc Leto-

fvliies, but with it belonging to the nomos or pre­

fecture of Memphis. (Strab. xvii. p. 807.) It was

probably situated on the banks of the can.il of

Memphis, a few miles SW. of Cercasorum. Leto, from

*h«n the town and the nome derived their name,  
*** an appellation of the deity Athor, one of the  
eifhtfMiMBJoresofAegypt. Lat. 30°N. [W.B.D.]

LETRINI (AVrpirai, Paus.; Aerptvo, Xen.), a

town of PUatis in Elis, situated nr>ar the sea, upon

the Sacred Way leading from Elis to Olvmpia, at

the distance of 180 stadia from Elis, and 120 from

Olvmpia. It was said to have been founded by

Letreus, a son of Pelops. (Paus. vi. 22. § 8.) To­

gether with several of the other dependent town­

ships of Elis, it joined Agis, when he invaded the

territories of Elis; and the Eleians were obliged to

surrender their supremacy over Letrini by the peace

which they concluded with the Spartans in B. c.

400. (Xen. Hell. iii. 2. §§ 25, 30.) Xenophon

(t. c.) speaks of Letrini, Ainphidoli, and Mar-

ganeis as Triphylian plac«s, although they were on

the righf bank of the Alpheius; and if there is no

corruption in the text, which Mr. Grote thinks there

is (FlisL of Greece, vol. ix. p. 415), the word Tri­

phylian must be used in a loose sense to signify the

dependent townships of Elis. The AerptvaXat yvai

are mentioned by Lycophron (158). In the time of

Pausanias nothing remained of Letrini except a few

houses and a temple of Artemis Alphciaea. (Paus.

I. e.) Letrini may be placed at the village and

monastery of St. John, between Pyrgo and the port

of Katdkolo, where, according to Leake, among

many fragments of antiquity, a part of a large

statue was found some years ago. (Leake, Morea,

vol. ii. p. 188; Boblaye, p. 130, &C; Curtius, Pe-

loponne&os, vol. i. p. 72.)

LEVACI, a ]>eople in Caesar's division of Gallia,

which was inhabited by the Belgae. The Levaci,

with some other small tribes, were dependent on the

Nervii. (Ii. G. v. 39.) The position of the Levaci

is unknown. [G. L.]

LEVAE FANUM, in Gallia Belgica is placed

by the Table on the road from Lugdunum Batavorum

(Lmdtn) to Noviomagus (Nymegen). Levae Fanum

is between Fletio (Vleuten) and Carvo; 25 M. P.

from Fletio and 12 from Carvo. [Cakvo.] D'An-

ville, assuming that he has fixed Carvo right, sup­

poses that there is some omission of places in the

Table between Fletio and Carvo, and that we cannot

rely upon it. He conjectures that Levae Fanum

may be a little beyond Ihtrsteede, on the bank

Opposite to that of the Batavi, at a place which he

calls Liven-dael (vallis Levae), this Leva being

some local divinity. Walckenaer fixes Levae Fanum

at Leertum, [G. L.]

LEUCA (t& Aevtcd, Strab.: Letica), a small

town of Calabria, situated close to the Iapygian

promontory, on a small buy immediately to the W.

of that celebrated headland. Its site is clearly

marked by an ancient church still called Sta. Maria

di Letica, but known also as the Madonna di Finis-

terra, from its situation at the extreme point of

Italy in this direction. The Iapygian promontory

itself is now known as the Capo di Letica. Strabo

is the only author who mentions a town of this

name (vi. p. 281), but Lucan also notices the

"secreta Httora Leucae" (v. 375) as a port fre­

quented by shipping; and its advantageous position,

at a point where so many ships must necessarily

touch, would soon create a town upon the spot. It

was probably never a municipal town, but a large

village or borgo, such as now exists upon the spot

in consequence of the double attraction of the port

and sanctuary. (Rampoldi, Corogr. delV Italia,

vol. ii. p. 442.)

Strabo tells us (I c.) that the inhabitants of

Leuca showed there a spring of fetid water, which

they pretended to have arisen from the wounds of

some of tbe giants which had been expelled by Her­

cules from the Phlcgraean plains, and who had taken

refuge here. These giants they called Leutemii,

M 4

