180 LIBYA. LIRYA.

K.:—G&nnaria(rarrapta &npa), probably Cape Non;

Soluentia (2oAu«T<a). Cape Bojador; Arsinarinm

CApffivdpiov). Cape Corveiro, the westernmost point

of the continent, Wing between the mouths of the

Daradus and the Stachir; the headland of Byssa-

dium, Cape Blanco, a continuation of the moun­

tain ridge of that name, and a few miles southward

of Arsinarium; the promontories of Catharon (to

Kadapbv axpop). Cape Darca, near the mouth of the

Nia, and of the Hesperides, celebrated in fable

('Etnripov Kt'pas, PtoL; Hesperion Ceras, Plin. v. 1.

s. 1), the Cape Verde of the Portuguese : lastly,

the term of H.innos voyage, the baaaltic rock en­

titled the headland of Notium (NoVov Ktpas), Cape

koxo, or Red Cape, from the colour of its surface.

Between the two last-mentioned projections lav the

Hesperian bay ('E*nr«pior k6k*o\), which, owing to

their misconception of the extent of this continent,

the ancients regarded as the southern boundary of

Libya, the point from which it crossed towards Asia,

or where the great Southern Ocean commenced.

While enumerating the mountains which con­

cealed their springs, we have nearly exhausted the

catalogue of the Libyan rivers which flow into the

Atlantic It is a consequence of the terraced con­

formation of the interior, that the streams would, for

the mast part, take an easterly or a westerly direc­

tion. Those which ran east wt-rc the tributaries of

the lake*,morasses, and rivers of Aethiopia, and, with

the exception of such as fed the As t a pus and the

Astaboras, have been scarcely explored. On the

western side the most important were (Ptol. iv. 6. §8)

the Sub us (2,ov€at), the modem Sus, and combining,

if not the same, with the Chretes (XpfTijs) and the

Xion (Huvc) (Scylax, p. 53), had its source in Mt.

♦Sagapola, and entered the Atlantic below the fur­

thest western projection of the Greater Atlas. Mt.

Mandrus gave birth to the Salathus, at the mouth

of which stood a town of the same name; to the

Chusarius (Xowrdpios), apjiarently the Cosenus of

Polybius {ap. Plin. v. 1. a. 1); to the Ophiodes

('O^iwSTft) and Novius (Noi/i'os), between the head­

lands of Gannarinm and Solocis; and, lastly, the

Massa orMasasat. (Polyb. L c.) In Mount Caphas

arises a more considerable stream than any of the

above-mentioned, the modern Rio de Ouro, the

aircient Daradus (AcEpaSu*, Aapa/r), which contained

crocodiles, and discharged itself into the Sinus

Magnus. The appearance of the crocodile in this

river, and the dark population which inhabited its

banks in common with those of the Niger, led many

of the ancient geographers to imagine that the Nile,

wherein similar phenomena were observed, took a

westerly course S. of Meroe, and, crossing the con­

tinent, emptied itself a second time into the sea in

the extreme west The Aethiopes Hesperii were

among the consequences of this fiction, and were

Lxdirved to be of the same race with the Aethiopians

of the Nile. Next in order southward was the

Stachir (2tiIx«*/>), which rose in Mt. Ryssadius,

and, after forming the Lake CIonia, proceeded in a

SE. direction to the bay of the Hesperides. The

Stachir is probably represented by the present St.

Antonio river, or Rio de (iuaon, and seems to

answer to the Salsus of pnlybius {ap. Plin. I.e.).

The same bay receives the waters of the Nia, the

Run bolus of Polybius, and the modern Senegal.

The river-horse, as well as the crocodile, inhabit

its streams, and the hides of the former were ex­

ported by the neighbouring tribe of Daratae to Car­

thage. The MastthoJus, the present Gambia, de­

sconds into the Atlantic from the Theou Ochrma, a

little N. of the Hippodrome of the Aethit>uar«

{'\irv6BpofAos Aidioa-i'af), or Cape Roxo, with wh.ch

terminates the geographer Ptolemy's Itinerary <sf

the Libyan coast. He mentions, indeed, a few riven

in the interior which have no outlet to the sra,

but form vast inland lakes. These are, probably,

either tributaries of the Niger, or the upper port»a

of the arms of the Niger itself; buttbecouiseof th*

streams that flow southward to Nigritia and t..e

Right of Benin belongs rather to modern than to

ancient geography. It is worthy of notice, how­

ever, that rumours at least of the dimensions of the

Niger must have reached the ears of the old geo­

graphers (Agathem. ii. 10; Plin. v. 1. a. I), since

they ascribe to the Gcr or Gir ( Tab. Peutmg. Girin)

a course of more than 300 miles, with a farther

curvature to the N. of 100, where it ends in the

lake Chelonides. The direct mainstream was re­

presented as diving underground, reappearing on tie

surface, and finally discharging itself into a lake

called Nuba.

Libya, indeed, " is ft region of extensive lakes: of

which there appear to be a great number on the

lowlands of its east coast, in which many of ti<-

rivers from the edge of the table-hind terminAte."

(Somerville, Physical Geog. vol. ii. p. 9.) In Libya

N. of the equator the following were known to the

ancients:—The Tritonia (Aeschyl. fume*. 2**9;

Pindar, Pyth. iv. 36 ; Scylax, p.49 : Herod, it. 178);

the lake of the Hesperides (Strab. xviii. p. 836);

the Libya Palus, which was connected with the

Niger by one of its tributaries; the Clooia, near the

eastern Hank of the Mount Kyssadium : the Ni;ritrf,

into which the upper portion of the Xigir flowed,

probably the present Dibbeh of the Arabs, or \\x

Black-Water, S\V*. of Timbuctoo: the Nuba, in

which the river Ger terminates, and which ana*era

to Lake Tchad, or Nou in Bornott, and whose di­

mensions almost entitle it to the denomination >>f a

fresh-water sea; and lastly, the cluster uf laVr*

named Chelonides, perhaps the modem AVtfre,

into which an arm of the Ger flows, and which are

surrounded with jungle and pastures celebrated fcr

their herds of elephants. Salt-water lakes abound

on the northern extremity of the -SoArfro, and th*

salt obtained from them has been in every ace an

article of barter w-.th the south, where that ner**.*Arr

of life is wholly wanting. It is obtained either fnsn

these lakes, which, dried up by the summer heat,

leave behind a vast quantity of salt, covering ex­

tensive patches of the earth, or from large bed*. *e

layers, which frequently extend fur many miles. ai*i

rise into hills. The inhabitants of Nigritia rarrttse

salt with gold-dust. A scarcity of talt in A'asAwa

and Timbuctoo is equivalent to a famine in other

lands. At such times the price of salt becomes so

extravagant, that Leo Africanus (p, 250) saw *a

asi's load sold at Timbuctoo for eighty ducats, The

neighbourhood of the lakes is also celebrated fce* the

number and luxuriance of its date trees. To the

borderers of the Desert the date tree is what the

bread-fruit tree is to the South Sea islanders. It*

fruit is food for both men and cattle: it was eaxmUe

of being preserved for a long time, and coot****! x*

great distances; while, from the sap or fruit *sf the

tree (Rennell, Erped. ofCyrua, p. ISO) was) aitrmctstl

a liquor equally intoxicating with wine.

Population.— Herodotus (iv. 168—199) disfc*-

guishes four main elements in tlie popoiatstsa «sf

Libya.—(1) the Libyans, (8) the Aethsoraaaa,

