O'JS scAndila.- SCARPHE.-

Longobardi, originally cum from Scandinavia. It

deserves to be noticed that the southern put of the

supposed island of Scandia, the modern Sw4th*\ still

bears the name Scania, Scone, or Schonen. Pliny

(viii. 16) mentions a peculiar animal called achlis,

um) KMmbliog the alcis, which wai found only in

Scandinavia. For further discussions about the va­

rious tribes of Scandinavia, which all the ancients

treat as a part of Gcrmania Magna, seo Wilhelm,

Gcrnianwn, p. 343, &c; Zeuss, h'te Iteutechen, (fe.

pp. 77, 156, Ac. [L. S.]

SCA'NIHLA, a small Island in the northern part

of the Aegaean sea, between I'eparethus and Seyros,

now Skandole. (Plin. iv. 12. s. 23; Mela, ii. 7.

§8.)

SCANDINAVIA. [Scamma.]

SCAPTE HYLE (Shottt^ v\rj, PhiL dm. 4,

de ExUiOy p. 60">; Marecllin. Vit. Tfatcyd. § 19).

or the " loss wood," situated on the confines of Mace­

donia and Thrace, in the auriferous district of Mt.

Parjgaeum, to which Thucydides was exiled, and

where he oooipoaed his great legacy for all ages —

the history of the war hi which he had served as

general. [E. B. J.]

SCA'PTIA (Eth. ^KairTTjvioi, Scaptiensis: Pa*-

aerano), an ancient city of Latium, which ap|>ears

to have ceased to exist at a very early period. Its

name is found in Dionysius among the thirty cities

of the Latin League (I)ionys. v. 61); and it therefore

.seems probable that it was at that time a considerable,

or at all events an independent, town. No mention

of it is subsequently found in history, but after the

great Latin War it was included in one of the new

RomaB tribes created on that occasion (b. c. 332),

to which it pave the name of Scaptian. (Feet. s. v.

Scaptia, p. 343; Liv. viii. 17.) No subsequent

mention is found of the town, and it is only noticed

by Pliny among the "clara oppida" of Latium,

which in his time had utterly disappeared (Plin. iii

5-s. 9). Silius Italian also allndei to the " Scaptia

pubes," but in a passage from which no inference

can be derived (viii. 395). The Scaptienses no­

ticed by Suetonius {Aug, 40) and elsewhere were

the members of the Scaptian tribe. There is

no real clue to its position; that derived from

the passage of Festus, from which it has been com­

monly inferred that it was in the neighbourhood of

Pedum, being of no value. The words "quant Pe-

dani incolebant," found in all the ordinary editions

of that author, are in fact merely a supplement of

Unions, founded on an inference from Livy (viii.

14, 17), which is by no means conclusive. (See

Muller's note.) Hut supposing that we are justified

in placing Scaptia in this neighbourhood, the site

suggested by Nibby, on the hill now occupied by a

farm or canale called Passerano, is at least probable

enough; the position is a strong one, on the point

of one of those narrow ridges with precipitous sides

between two ravines, which abound in this part of

the Campayna. It is about 3 miles NW. of GaUi-

cano, the presumed sito of Pedum; and the exist­

ence of an ancient town on the spot is attested by

the fragments of ancient walls, the large, roughly-

hewn masses of which are found worked up into

more recent buildings. Its situation closely resem­

bles that of OolUamO itself, as w**ll as that of

Zfifjarolo, about 3 miles further S. (where there are

also indications of ancient habitation); and the iden­

tification of any of the three can be little more than

conjectural. (Nibbv, &uUornit vol. iii. pp. 70,

71.) [E. H. B.J

SCARABATSTTIA (Sra^orria, Ptol it M

5), a town on the western bank of Lake Pes* a

Upper Pannonia, on the road leading from Cannesa

to Saharia. (Plin. iii. 27; iet pp. #3 ttl.

262, 266; Tab. Peut.) According to east mi

inscriptions found at the place, it was i monx.pia

with the surname of Flavia Augusta. H«»« ap­

pears that the reading in Pliny. *'Searabaata JiiaJ*

is not correct, and that we must read wtberSaiv

bantia Flavia. or Scarabantia et Julia. Its a* a

now occupied by the town of Otdewbvrg, « Be>

garian Sopronv or Sopron, (Cump. Muchir. Aav

htm, i. p. 16S; Schiinwisner, Amtiqwtota Sda*

rww, p. 31; Orelli, Itucript. n. 4992.) [US.]

SCA'RBIA, a town in Rhaetia, betwwo Fa*

tenum and Veldidena, on the nad hading I

Augusta Vindelicoram into Italy, occonai 1

site of the modern Schamitz. (ToWa /

rafM.) 1

SCAIiDO'N'A (2<apoWo, Pt 1. ii. 17. | J;"

cop. B. G. i. 7. 16, iv. 23; Plin. Hi. 26;"

Rav. t. 14 ; SfcdpoW, Strab. vii. p. 315;!

Pent. 7n6.),a town in the territory of the I ~

the Titi us, 12 M. P. from where that rim n

sea. From t he circumstance of its having b

the three "conventus" of Dalmatia, it nm±lfe

a place of importance, and was used from«errjti

as a depot for the goods which were trtnaja

by the Titius to the inland Dalmatians, - r. i-')

The modern Scardona in Illyric Sou-dim ar£

retains the name of the old city, though il4

occupy the site, which was probably farther I

W. (Wilkinson, Dalmatia, toL l p. 191.)

lemy (ii. 17. § 13) has an island of the saw:

otTthe Liburnian coast,— perhaps the rocky I

riouslv-shaped island of Pago. [E. F

SCARDUS, SCODRUS, SCORDCS

SwdpSof hpos, Polyb. xxviii. 8; PtoL u. li.^

the desolate heights which are menu

dentally by Livy (xliii. 20, xJiv. 31) as hissj

the way from Stymbara to Scodra, and as

rise to the Oriuns. They seem to bar* <

bended the great summits on either a*Jt

Drilo, where its course is from E. to W. CLaaM

Northern Greece ToL iii. p. 477 ) la I

map (EwopaUcKen Tnrkef) Scardos (S

extends from the Ljubatrin to Shaieatk; I

there is a "col" from KalhnntUle to C

less than 5000 feet above the level of the aa

cording to the nomenclature of Grisebach.S

reaches from the Ljubairxn at its NE. extra

the SW. and S. as far as the Kltsvtmra of 1

of that point Pindus commence* in a <

of the same axis. [E-8L.J

SCARNIUNGA, a river of Pannonia,:

only by Jornandcs (de Reb. GcL 52). wl

impossible to identify from the Tagua ■

which it is spoken of.

SCARPHE {^Kdp<p7j). in Boeotia. [Etsm

SCARPHE or SCARPHEIA (Sanaaaw, 1

2«ap^e(o, Slrab., Paus^ Steph. B.: Etk. T

^Kafxpaitvs). a town of the Locri Easoaaai

tinned by Homer. (//. ii. 532.) Ace

Strabo it was 10 stadia from the sea.

from Thronium, and a little less

place of which Uie nam* is losi,

(Strab. ix. p. 426.) It appeara

that it lay on the direct road fraa

Thermopylae by Thronium (*iii.

likewise from Livy, who states that Q«

tuinuius. marched from ElaUia hj The

