BOMA. BOMA. 825

ttaawate ban been the ipot called by Martial

ttfimmfimoa of tbe Subura (ii. 17):—

'Tisatrix Saburae faucibus sedet primis,

frofota pendent qua fiagella tortnrum

Arriqae letum multua obsidet sutor."

Jmtal (v. 106) represents tbe Cloaca Maxima

s -it.-.- to tlie middle of the Sobura, and

*» (act was established by excavations nude in  
"■: war K43. (Kicoroni, VeiHgia di Roma, ap.

leaker;. Clan. V . vol. t. p. 219.)

Inn iu situation between tbe imperial fora and

> altera hilla, tbe Sahara must bare been one of

■' tat frequented thoroughfares in Borne; and

an *i are not surprised to find many allusions to

■ (it sad noise. It was the peculiar aversion of

bsaai,— a man, indeed, of many aversions (" Kgo

■- I'rxBTtao praepono Suburae," Sot. iii. 5); a

ii a aii friend's character which had not escaped

I of Martial (xii. 18):—

"Dum tu forsitan inquietus erras

Clamusa, Juveaalis, in Subura."

» fptket chmota here probably refers to the

as rf Kiatrant chapmen: for we learn from other

sssrai in Martial that the Sobura was tlie chief

awn which be used to market (rii. 31, x. 94,

M cf. Jar. xL 13G, seq.) It appears also to

* tra the abode of prostitutes (vi. 66; conip,  
» Asoi v. 58). It was therefore what is corn­

er/ called a low neighbour!; -.:: though some

mcmktd families seem to have resided in it,

■ Casaar himself in his early life (Sunt. Cats.

«»l is the time of Martial, L Arruntius Stella

- J > I. The Subura nenses, or inhsbiiants of the  
kwv kept op to a late period some of the ancient

fert which probably belonged to them when

* areas*" a distinct village; especially an annual  
■sat iii the Sacravienses, or inhabitants of the

■ Va, lor tbe bead of the horse sacrificed to

n is the Campos Martins every October. If

Scbsrsnenaea gained tbe victory they fixed tbe

i at a tower in the Subura called Ti'RKIs

Km, whilst the Sacraviensea. if successful,

a it on the Regia- (r'estus, t. r. October Kqum.

M. MfiiL; ran,. Diac p. 131.)

'-■ -■:< "at the time of the Bepublic the Esquiline

sn u have been by no means a favourite or

usable place of residence. Part of it was occu-

Isy tie Campus Ksquiuxvs, a place used as a

»«-cround, principally for tbe very lowest class

■saw.sorb as paupers and slaves; whose bodies

11> have been frequently cast out and left to rot

iwnbtart anv covering of earth. But under the

• • i .i especially the later period of it, many

•a were erected on the Esquiline. Maecenas

Uw Srst to improre it, by converting this field of

h, aaa probablv also part of tbe surrounding

isuorhrjod, — the pauper burial-ground itself

an ta bars been only 1000 feet long by 300

r— as» as agreeable park or garden. Horace

i *. U) mentions the laying out of these ccle-

la* Eat Esnuiliia habitare salubribus atque

torn in aprico apatiari, qua modo triates

aba afanoem • pec ta bant ossibus agrum."

•wan from these lines that the Campus Esqui-

« sevaDed tbe agger of Servius Tullius, which,

0f these gardens, was converted into

which people were no

longer driven by the disgusting spectacle of mould­

ering bones. The Campus Esquilinus being a

cemetery, must of course have been on the outside

of the agger, since it was not lawful to bury within

the pomoerium; and Varro (/,./,. v. § 25) mentions

it as " ultra Exquilias," by which be must mean the

Servian Begion so called, which was bounded by the

agger. Its situation is also determined by a passage

in Strabo (v. p. 237), where the Via Labicana,

which issued from the Esquiline gate at the south­

ern extremity of the agger, is said to leave the

campus on the left. It appears to have also been

the place of execution for slaves and ignoble crimi­

nals (Suet. Claud. 23; Tac. Ann. ii. 32, xv. 60;

Plant. MiL ii. 4. 6, ed. Bitschl.). There does not

seem to be any authority for Becker's assumption

that tlie whole of the Esquiline outside of the Ser­

vian walls was called Campus Esquilinus (Handb.

p. 554), nor that after the laying out of the gardens

of Maecenas the ancient place of execution was trans­

ferred to the Sessorium, near S. Croce in Geruta-

lemtne. Part of the campus was the field given, as

the scholiast on Horace says, by some person as a

burying-place. The Sessorium mentioned in the

Excerpla Valuiana de Odoacre (69) was a palace;

and though Theodoric ordered a traitor to be be­

headed there it can hardly have been the ordinary

place of execution for common malefactors. Besides

tlie Sessorium mentioned by the scholiasts on Horace

(Epod. r. 100, Sal. i. 8. 11) was close to the

Esquiline gate, a full mile from S. Croce, and seems,

therefore, to have been another name for the Campus

Esquilinus, if the scholiasts are right in calling it

Sessorium. The executions recorded in the passages

before quoted from Suetonius and Tacitus took place

long after the gardens of Maecenas were made; yet

when Tacitus uses the words " extra Portam Exqui-

linam," there can be no doubt that he means jtut

without the gate. It would be a wrong conception

of the Horti Maecenatis to imagine that they resem­

bled a private garden, or even a gentleman's park.

They were a common place of recreation for the

Roman populace. Thus Juvenal describes the agger

as the usual resort of fortune-tellers. (S. vi. 588.)

We see from the description of Horace that not even

all the tombs had been removed. Canidia comes

there to perform her incantations and evoke the

manes of the dead; at sight of which infernal rites

the moon hides herself behind the sepulchres (v.

85) r—

"lnnamqnc rubentem,

Ke foret his testis, post magna latere sepnlcra."

Such a place, therefore, might still have been used

for executions; though, doubtless, bodies were no

longer exposed there, as they had formerly been.

These " magna sepulcra" would also indicate that

some even of the better classes were buried here;

and the same thing appears from Cicero. (/'AiV. ix.

7>

The Horti Maecenatis probably extended within

the agger towards the baths of Titus, and it was in

this part that the House op Maecenas seems to

have been situated. Close to these baths, on the

NE. Bide, others, bnilt by Trajan, existed in ancient

times, although all traces of them have now vanished.

They have sometimes been confounded with those of

Titus; but there can be no doubt that they were

distinct and separate foundations. Thus the Sotitia

mentions in the 3rd Begion the " Thermae Titianae

et Trnjanae;" and their distinction is .

