LATIUM. 143 LA'l'MICUS SINUS.

parent]/ at the foot of the Mons Lepinus, or nottlicrn

extremity of the Volscian mountains. [Ecetra.]

Besides these cities, which in the early ages of

L*tium formed members of the Latin League, or are

otherwise conspicuous in Roman history, we find men­

tion in Pliny of some smaller towns still existing in

his time; of which the '' Fabienses in Monte Albuno"

may certainly be placed at Rocca di Papa, the

highest village on the Alban Mount, and the Castri-

nionienfiea at Mariuo, near the site of Alba Longa.

The list of the thirty cities of the League given by

Lil.my.-4tL> (v. 61) has been already cited (p. 139).

Of the names included in it, Bubkstlm is wholly

iLiknown, and must hare disappeared at an early pe­

ri. J. Cakventcm is known only from the mention

of the Arx Carrentana in Livy during the wars with

the Aeouians (iv. 53, 55), and was probably situated

swnewliere on the frontier of that people; while two

of the names, the Fortineii (Qopriveiot) and Tri-

crini (TpiKfiyoi), are utterly unknown, and in all pro­

bability corrupt. The former may probably be the

same with the Forctii of Pliny, or perhaps with the

Forentani of the same author, but both these are

equally unknown to us.

Besides these Pliny has given a long list of towns

or cities (clara oppida. iii. 5. s. 9. § 68) which once

existed in Latium, but had wholly disappeared in his

time. Among these we find many that are well

known in history and hare been already noticed, viz.

Satricum, Pametia, Scaptia. Politorium, Tellenae,

Caeiina, Ficana, Crustumerium, Ameriola, Medul-

lia, Comicnlum, Antemnae, Cameria, Collatia, With

tliese he joins two cities which are certainly of my­

thical character; Saturnia, which was alleged to have

previously existed on the Bite of Rome, and Antipolis,

M the hill of the Janiculum ; and adds three other

tames. Sulmo, a place not mentioned by any other

•titer, but the name of which may probably be recog­

nised in the modern Sermonela; Norbe, which seems

to be an erroneous repetition of the well-known

N.rha, already mentioned by him among the existing

dues of Latium (lb. §64); and Amitinum or Ami-

temom, of which no truce is found elsewhere, except

the well-known city of the name in the Vestini, which

ataat possibly be meant. But, after mentioning

these cities as extinct, Pliny adds another list of

*■ p-jpuli" or communities, which had been accustomed  
to share with them in the sacrifices on the Alban

M-jnnt, and which were all equally decayed. Ac­

cording to the punctuation proposed by Niebuhr and

adopted by the latest editors of Pliny, he classes

these collectively as "populi Albeuses," and enu­

merates them as follows: Albani, Aesulani, Ac­

cuses, Aholani, Bubetani, Bolani, Cusuetani, Co-

nolani, Fidenates, Foretii, Hortenses, LAtinienses,

Lcojmlani, Mauatcs, Macrales, Mutncumensos, Mu-

twnses, Kaminieuaea, Olliculani, Octnlani, Pedani,

Ptdlmtini, Qnerqaetulani, Sicani, Sisuiunses, Tole-

rwses, Talienses, Vimitellarii, Velienses, Venetulani,

t ueHemes. Of the names here given, eleven relate

<» well-known fcrwns (Albn, Aesula, Bola, Corioli,

Fideuae, LooguLa, Pedum, Pollusca, Querquetula,

Toferium and Vitellia): the Bubetani are evidently

'!>- same with the Bnbentani of Dionysius already

•"tieed; the Foretii may perhaps be the same with

the Fortineii of that author; the Hortenses may pro-

b*Uy he the inhabitants of the town called by Livy

Oruxa; the Munienses are very possibly the people

rf ti* town afterwards called Castrimoenium: but

t*re nil! remain sixteen wholly unknown. At the

■one time there are several indications (such as the

agreement with Dionysius in regard to the otherwise

unknown Bubentani, and the notice of Aesula and

Querquetula, towns which do not figure in history)

that the list is derived from an authentic source; and

was probably copied as a whole by Pliny from some

more ancient authority. The conjecture of Niebuhr,

therefore, that we have here a list of the subject or

dependent cities of Alba, derived from a period when

they formed a separate and closer league with Alba

itself, is at least highly plausible. The notice in the

list of the I'diewu is a strong confirmation of this

view, if we can suppose them to be the inhabitants of

the hill at Rome called the Velia, which is known to

us as bearing an important part in the ancient sacri­

fices of the Septimontimn. [Roma.]

The works on the topography of Latium, as

might be expected from the peculiar interest of the

subject, are sufficiently numerous: but the older

ones are of little value. Cluverius, as usual, laid a

safe and solid foundation, which, with the criticisms

and corrections of Holstenius, must be considered as

the basis of all subsequent researches. The special

works of Kircher (1'erus Latium, fol. Amst. 1671)

and Volpi (Vetus Latium Profamtm et Sacrum,

Romae, 1704—1748,10 vols.4to.) contain very little

of real value. After the ancient authorities had been

carefully brought together and revised by Cluverius,

the great requisite was a careful and systematic

examination of the localities and existing remains,

and the geographical survey of the country. These

objects were to a great extent carried out by Sir W.

Gell (whose excellent map of the country around

Rome is an invaluable guide to the historical

inquirer) and by Professor Nibby. (Sir W. Gell,

Topography of Borne and its Vicinity; with a

large map to accompany it, 2 vols. 8vo. Lond. 1834;

2d edit. 1 vol. Lond. 1846. Nibby, Analisi Storico-

Topogrqfico-Antiquaria deUa Carta dei Dintomi di

Roma, 3 vols. 8vo. Rome, 1837; 2d edit, lb. 1849.

The former work by the same author, Viaggio

Antiqnario net" Contorni di Roma, 2 vols. 8vo.

Rome, 1819, is a very inferior performance.) It is

unfortunate that both their works are deficient in

accurate scholarship, and still more in the spirit of

historical criticism, so absolutely necessary in all

inquiries into the early history of Rome. Westphal,

in his work (Die Romische Kampagne in Topo-

graphischer ti. Antiquarischer llinsicht dargestellt,

4to. Berlin, 1829) published before the survey of

Sir W. Gell, and consequently with imperfect geo­

graphical resources, attached himself especially to

tracing out the ancient roads, and his work is in this

respect of the greatest importance. The recent work of

Bormann (Alt-Latinische Chorographie undStadte-

Geschichte, 8vo. Halle, 1852) contains a careful

review of the historical statements of ancient authors,

as well as of the researches of modern inquirers, but

is not based upon any new topographical researches.

Notwithstanding the labours of Gell and Nibbv,

much still remains to be done in this respect, and a

work that should combine the results of such in­

quiries with sound scholarship and a judicious spirit

of criticism would bo a valuable contribution to

ancient geography. [E. H. B.]

LATMICUS SINUS (o AaTiwror irdXwos), a

bay on the western coast of Caria, deriving its name

from Mount Latmus, which rises at the head of the

gulf. It was formed by the mouth of the river

Maeander which flowed into it from the north-east.

Its breadth, between Miletus, on the southern head­

land, and Pyrrha in the north, amounted to 30

