LKVOXI. LIBANUS MONS. 173

LEVCKXI (Aevwoi), a tribe mentioned by Ptolemy

(ii. 11. § 35) as dwelling in the central parts of

tbe island of Scandis. No further particulars are

known about them. (Coinp. Zeuss, die Deitfschen,

p. 158.) [L.S.]

LEUPHAXA (Afi^dVa), a town mentioned by

Ptolemy (ii. 11. § 27) in the north of Germany, on

tiie west of the Kibe ; it probably occupied the site

of the modern Luneburg. (Wilhelm, Oermunien,

p. 161.) [L.S.1

LEUTERNIA or LEUTARN1A. [Lkuca.]

LEUTUOANUM, a place in Pannonia Superior,

12 Roman miles east of Mnrsa, on the road from

Aijuileia to Sirmium (/*. Hiervs. p. 561); hence it

wrms to be identical with the place culled Ad La-

bores in the Peuting. Table. [L. S.]

LEXOA'II (Anfcfeioi, Strab. p. 189; AtfovGtot,

Ptol. ii. 8. § 2), a Celtic people, on the coast of

Gallia, immediately west of the mouth of the Seine.

When the Veneti and their neighbours were pre­

paring for Caesar's attack (b. c. 56), they applied

for aid to the Osismi, Lexovii, Xaunetes, and other**.

(B. G. iii. 9, 11.) Caesar sent Sabinus against the

t'rwlli. Curiosolites, and Lexovii, to prevent their

janing the Veneti. A few days after Sabinus

reached the country of the Unelli, the Aulerci Eu-

bunmces and tiie Lexovii murdered their council or

tenate, as Caesar calls it, because they were against

the war; and they joined Viridovix, the chief of the

Unelli. The Gallic confederates were defeated by

Sabinus, and compelled to surrender. (Ii, G. ill. 17

—19.) The Lexovii took part in the great rising

of tbe Galli against Caesar (». c. 52); but their

force was only 3000 men. (B. G. vii. 75.) Wakke-

naer supposes that the territory of the Lexovii of

Caesar and Ptolemy comprised both the territories

of Luievx and Bayeux, though there was a people

in Bayeux named Baiocasscs; and he further supposes

that these Baiocasses and the Yiducasses were de­

pendent on the Lexovii, and within their territorial

limit*. [Bajocas&ks.] The capital of the Lexovii,

or Ciritas Lexoviorum, as it is called in the Notit.

I'ruvinc., is Lisieux, in the French department of

Calradas. [NovioMaGCS.] The country of the

Lexovii was one of the parts of Gallia from which

the passage to Britain was made. [G. L.]

L1BA (Ai€a). a small place in Mesopotamia,

mentioned by Polybius (v. 51) on the march of

Antbcbus. It was probably situated on the road

between Nisi bis and the Tigris. [V.]

LIBA'KUS MONS (Aifrwos fyos), in Hebrew

Lf.basox (|133?), a celebrated mountain range of

Svria, or, as St. Jerome truly terms it, " rnons Phoe-

nkes altissiuius." (Onomast. t. r.) Its name is

derived from the root 1??, "to be white;" as St

•lerome also remarks, •' Libanns XtvKaafxbs, id est,

'earhior' interpretatur" {Adv. Jovinianum, torn. iv.

cfll 172): and white it is, " both in summer and

winter; in the former season on account of the natural

ciiV-ur of the barren rock, and in the latter by reason

of the snow," which indeed *' remains in some places,

war the'rammit, throughout the year." (Irby and

Mangles, Oct. 30 and Nov. 1.) Allusion is made

t" it* snows in Jer. xviii. 14; and it is described by

TVttus as "tantos inter ardores opacum fidumque

niTibtu." (fJist. v, 6.) Lebanon is much celebrated

bith in sacred and classical writers, and, in parti-

ruitr, much of the sublime imagery of the prophets

*f tbe Old Testament is borrowed from this moun­  
ts (e.g. Ptal xxix. 5, 6, civ. 16—18; Cant. iv.

8, 11, 15, v. 15; ha. ii. 13; Ifos. xiv. 5—7; Zeck.

xi. 1,2). It is, however, chiefly celebrated in sacred

history for its forests of cedar and fir, from which

the temple of Solomon was constructed and adorned.

(I Kings, v.; 2 Ckron. ii.) It is clear from the

sacred history that Mount Lebanon was, in Solomon's

time, subject to the kings of Tyre; but at a later

period we find the king of Assyria felling its timber

for his military engines (ha. xiv. 8, xxxvii. 24;

Ezek. xxsi. 16); and Diodurus Siculus relates that

Antigonus, having collected from all quarters hewers

of wood, and sawyers, and shipbuilders, brought

down timber from Libanus to the sea, to build him­

self a navy. Some idea of the extent of its pine

forests may be formed from the fact recorded by this

historian, that 8000 men were employed in felling

and sawing it, and 1000 beasts in transporting it to

its destination. He correctly describes the mountain

as extending along the coast of Tripoli and Byblius,

as far as Sidon, abounding in cedars, and firs, and

cypresses, of marvellous size and beauty (xix. 58);

and it is singular that the other classical geogra­

phers were wholly mistaken as to the course of this

remarkable mountain chain, both Ptolemy (v. 15)

and Strabo (xvL p. 755) representing the two almost

parallel ranges of Libanus and Antilibanus as com­

mencing near the sea and running from west to east,

in the direction of Damascus,—Libanus on the north

and Antilibanus on the south; and it is remarkable

that the Septuagint translators, apparently under

the same erroneous idea, frequently translate the

Hebrew word Lebanon by *Avrt\i€avos (e. g. JJeut.

i. 7, iii. 25, xi. 24; Josh. i. 4, ix. 1). Their relative

position is correctly stated by Eusebius and St.

Jerome (#. p. Antilibanus), who place Antilibanus

to the east of Libanus and in the vicinity of Da­

mascus. [Antiubanus.]

Lebanon itself may be said to commence on the

north of the river Leontes (el-Kdtimiyeh), between

Tyre and Sidon; it follows the course of the coast of

the Mediterranean towards the north, which in some

places washes its base, and in others is separated

from it by a plain varying in extent: the mountain

attains its highest elevation (nearly 12,000 feet)

about half way between Beirut and Tripoli. It is

now called by various names, after the tribes by

whom it is peopled,— the southern part being in­

habited by the Metowili; to the north of whom, as

far as the road from Beirut to Damascus, are the

Druses; the Maronites occupying the northern parts,

and in particular the district called Kesrawan.

(Robinson, Bibl. Res. vol. iii. p. 459; Burckhardt,

Syria, pp. 182—209.) It still answers, in part at

least, to the description of St. Jerome, being " fer-

tilissimus et virens," though it can be no longer said

**densissimis arborum comis protegitur" (Comment,  
in Osee, c. xiv.): and again,—" Nihil Libano in terra

repromissionis excelsiua est, nee nemorosius atque

condensius." (Comment, in Zacharian, c. xi.) It is

now ehiefiy fruitful in vines and mulberry trees; the

former celebrated from of old (Hot. xiv. 7), the

latter introduced with the cultivation of the silk­

worm in comparatively modern times. Its extensive

pine forests have entirely disappeared, or are now

represented by small clusters of firs of no imposing

growth, scattered over the mountain in those parts

where the soft sandstone (here of a reddish hue)

comes out from between the Jura limestone, which

is the prevailing formation of the mountain. The

cedars so renowned in ancient times, and known to

be tbe patriarchs of all of their species now existing.

