rALAESTIKA.

53] PALAEST1KA.

(rrorrainjf Um two tribes and a halt' beyond

iltlmurh their general disposition has been

■sbcipaled m the arcoant of the nations whom they

fapnntmei. [Ajcorites.]

Arsmem, God, and half Manauek.—The southern

part id the old Amorite conquests on the east of

assigned by Moses to the Keubenites,

seem to haTe been coextensive

toe kingdom of Sibon, kin? of the Amorites,

capital was at Heshbon. [Hesbox.] There

v.some apparent confusion in the accounts;

■ wfcus Reuben is amid to have possessed " from

"-by tbe river Amon,.. .Heshbon,.. .and all the

bnpasmi of SLbon king of the A mi. ritesGad is

■h* amid to bare had " the rat of the kingdom of

"'uut while Gad in said to have held 11 all the

■nam of Gilmmd," Manasseh is raid to have had

'aatf Gtfead." (Josh, xiii. corn p. ver. 21 with 27,

aW 25 with 31); while from Numbers (xxxii. 39

—41) it vMold appear tliat Mmnasseh possessed the

> •-- of Gi&esd. As the Israelites were not per-

mcami to occupy the country which tbey found still

i ^*essaon of the Ammonites, but only so much

'' ■» at mad been taken from tbem by Sihon king of

w Ananiea. the limits of the Israelite possessions

the Ammonites are not clearly defined

rrxx; Ba*han]; and it may be doubted

the distrination of the country among the

sod s half was not regulated rather by

the accident of conquest than by any

limits: certain it is that it would

difficult to draw a line which should

mil the cities belonging to any one tribe, and

bm* Mtea are fixed with any degree of certainty,

I yet eschade all other cities mentioned as be-

trwr to ease of tbe other tribes. Generally it

f far mid that the possessions of Gad and Reuben

's* the mouth and west of the trans-Jordanic

s^m. «kUe thwe of Mana>seh lay in the moun­

ts t» the cssst of the Jordan valley and the lake

Cnr^nc It is plain only that the Jordan was

I mnrssr of the two former, anil that of these the

bsf Gad held tbe northern part of the valley, to

at- sam of Chirmereth." (Josh. xiii. 23, 27.)

r Gadites are said to have built nine cities,

laVmbemites mix, it can only be understood to

thrr restored them after they had been

by their old inhabitants, as in the case

the sua of Manaaseb it is expressly said

I W onufraud tbe cities of the dispossessed

r.VW>. xxxii. 34—42.) It may, per-

a » i iia Imlsil from Deut. iii. t—17 that, while

of Sihon was divided between the

■ of Gsd and Besaben, the whole kingdom of Og

to tbe half-tribe of Manasseh; as, indeed,

rv prntmble that the division of the land on

of Jordan also followed its ancient distri­

ct i-^ir; its farmer inhabitants,

la r-rnarfced by BeJand, that the division of the

1st SsVamwai has been too commonly overlooked,

■d regard only to the provision of

» tsstle, it is calculated to throw consider-

I ss sacred pet"prmphy. Tbe country was

Bass fmJw district it, under superior officers,

sf wfcsssi were allied to the king by mar-

of shii ti districts was made chargeable

time rrtf-*^ during one month in

tfalese divisions bad any further

does not appear, but it is difli-'

that an J merely eumptunry exigences

•chested such an elaborate arrange-

ment The divisions agree for the most part with

those of the tribes. (1 Kings, iv. 7—19.)

3. Third Period.—We have no distinct account of

the civil division of the country on the return of the

\ Jews from the captivity, and during its subsequent

i history, until it was reduced to a lioman province.

J Under the Persians, the title of "governor on this

j side the river," so frequent in the books of Nehe-

1 miah and Kzra, and the description of the strangers,

colonists of Samaria, as "men on this side the

| river" (Euphrates), probably indicates the only

designation by which Palestine was known, as a

comparatively small and insignificant part ot one of

the satrapies of that enormous kingdom. {Ezra,

iv. 10, 17; v. 20, vi. 6, &c; Neh. ii. 7, iii. 8, &c.)

Among the Jews, the ancient divisions were still

recognised, but gradually the larger territorial divi­

sions superseded tbe tribual, and the political geo­

graphy assumed the more convenient form which

we find in the New Testament and in the writings

of Josephus, illustrated as they are by the classical

geographers Pliny and Ptolemy.

The divisions most familiar to the readers of the

New Testament are, Judaea, Galilee, Samaria, I)e-

capolis, and Peraea. in which is comprehended the

whole of Palestine, with the exception of the sea-

border, the northern part of which is called u the

coasts of Tyre and Sidon" by the evangeliMs, and

comprehended under the name of Phoenice by

Josephus and the classical geographers. The three

first-named districts are very clearly descril>ed by

Josephus; and his account is the more valuable as

confirming the descriptions contained in the Bible of

its extreme fertility and populousness, which will,

however, present no difficulty to the traveller who

has had the opportunity of observing tbe natural

fertility of the soil in the parts still rudely culti­

vated, and the numerous traces of tbe agricultural

industry of ancient times.

Galilee, Upper and Lower.—"There arc two

Galilees, one called Lower, the other Upper, which

are surrounded by Phoenicia and Syria. On the

bide of the setting sun they are bounded by the

frontiers of the territory of Ptolemais, and Carmel,

a mountain formerly belonging to the Galileans,

but at present to the Tynan*; which is joined by

Gaba, called tin1 * city of knights/ became the

knights disbanded by Herod dwell there: and on

the south by Samaria and Seythopolis, as far as tbe

river Jordan. On the east it is bounded by Hippene

and Gadaris, and Gaulanitis und the frontiers of

Agrippas kingdom. The northern limit is Tyre

and the Tyrian territory. That which is called

Lower Galilee extends in length from Tiberias t<>

Chahulon, near which on the sea-coast is situated

Ptolemais. Its greatest breadth is from a Tillage

called Xalbth, situated in the great plain, to ller-

base; from which place also the breadth of Upper

Galilee commences, extending to a village named

Baca, which separates the Tyrian territory from

Galilee. In length, Upper Galilee reaches to Merotlt

from Thella, a village near the Jordan.

11 Now the two Galilees, being of such extent, and

surrounded by foreign nations, have always n-iv.e.i

every hostile invasion; for its inhabitants are trained

to arms from their infancy, and are exceedingly

numerous; and neither have the men ever been

wanting in courage, nor the country suffered 1'rum

paucity of inhabitants, vines it is rich, and favour­

able for pasture, and planted with every variety of

tree; *> that by its fertility it invites even those

m >t '2

