JAXARTES. JAZYGES. 7

thians (pp. 514, 517), the principal tribes of which

were the Sacae, Dahae, and Massagetae, and adds

(p. 518) that its "embouchure " was, according to

Patrocles, 80 parasangs from the mouth of the Oxus.

Pliny (vi. 18) says that the Scythians called it

"Silis," probably a form of the name Syr, which it

now bears, and that Alexander and his soldiers

thought that it was the Tanals. It has been conjee-

tared that the Alani, in whose language the word tan

(Tan-als, Dan, Don) signified a river, may have

brought this appellative first to the E., and then to

the W. of the Aralo-Caspian basin, in their migra­

tions, and thus hare contributed to confirm an error

so flattering to the vanity of the Macedonian con­

querors. (<4«'« Centrale, vol. ii. pp. 254, 291;

eomp, Schafarik, Slav. Alt vol. i. p. 500.) Pom no­

nius Mela (iii. 5. § 6) merely states that it watered

the vast countries of Scythia and Sogdiana, and dis­

charged itself into that E. portion of the Caspian

which was called Scythicns Sinus.

Arrian, in recounting the capture of Cyropolis

(Anab. iv. 3. § 4), has mentioned the curious fact,

that the Macedonian army entered the town by the

dried-up bed of the river; these desiccations are

sat rare in the sandy steppes of Central Asia, — as

for instance, in the sadden drying up of one of the

arms of the Jaxartes, known under the name of

Tanghi-Daria, the account of which was first

brought to Europe in 1820. (Comp. Journ. Geog.

Soc. vol. xiv. pp. 333—335.)

Ptolemy (vi. 12. § 1) has fixed mathematically

the sources, as well as the "embouchure," of the

J.ixartes. According to him the river rises in lat.

43° and long. 125°, in the mountain district of the

Comkdi (,v iptivi) Kouinowi', § 3: Muz-TdgK), and

throws itself into the Caspian in lat. 48° and longt

97°, carrying with it the waters of many affluents,

the principal of which are called, the one Bascatis

(BoffKori j, § 3), and the other Demus (Aijpos, § .'!)■

Me describes it as watering three countries, that of

the '■ Sacae," " Sogdiana," and "Scythia intra Imaum."

In the first of these, upon its right bank, were found

the Comari (Kofxapoi) and Cakatak (Kaparai,

vi. 13. § 3); in the second, on the left bank, the

Axikses ('ArKo-fij) and Drkpsiaki (Afit^i-

afQiX who extended to the Oxus, the Tacmoki

(Taxopoi). and Iatii ('Ich-iw, vi. 12. § 4); in

Scythia, on the N. bank of the Syr, lived the Jax-

artak ('lojofrreu), a numerous people (vi. 14. §

10). and near the " embouchure," the Ariacab

('Aatdjrcu, vi. 14. § 13). Ammianus MarcelUnus

(xxiii. 6. § 59), describing Central Asia, in the

upper course of the Jaxartes which falls into the

<Ja«|'ian, speaks of two rivers, the Araxatks and

Dvmas (probably the Demus of I'tolemy), " qui per

juea vallesqne praecipites in campestrem planitiem

decurrentea Oxiam nomine paludem efHciunt longe

btteque diffusam." This is the first intimation,

though very vague, as to the formation of the Sea of

Ami, and requires a more detailed examination.

f_OnA Paws.]

The obscure Geographer of Ravenna, who lived, as

h is believed, about the 7th century a. o., mentions

the river Jaxartes in describing Hyrcania.

Those who wish to study the accounts given by

mediaeval and modem travellers, will find much va­

luable information in the " Dissertation on the River

Jixartes" annexed to Levchine, Horde* et Steppea

d-j Kirghiz-Koxika, Paris, 1840. This same writer

(pp 53—:70) has described the course of the Syr-

Daria, which baa its source in the mountains of

Kachkar-Davan, a branch of the range called by the

Chinese the "Mountains of Heaven," and, taking a

NW. course through the sandy steppes of Kizil-

Kmim and Kara-Koum, unites its waters with those

of the Sea of Aral, on its E. shores, at the gulf of

Kamechlou-Bachi. [E. B. J.]

JAXAMATAE ('Iofaudrai. 'Ia£a/jaT<u, 'IJnuo-

tcu, Ixomatae, Aram. Marc xxii. 8. § 31; Exo-

matae, Val. Flacc Argonaut, vi. 144, 5C9) a people

who first appear in history during the reign of Saty-

rns III., king of Bosporus, who waged war with Tir-

gatao, their queen. (Polyacn. viii. 55.) The ancients

attribute them to the Sarmatian stock. (Scymn. Fr.

p. 140; Anon. Peripl. Eux. p. 2.) Pomponius Mela

(i. 19. § 17) states that they were distinguished by

the peculiarity of the women being as tried warriors

as the men. Ptolemy (v. 9) has placed them between

the Bon and Volga, which agrees well with the po­

sition assigned to them by the authors mentioned

above. In the second century of our era they disap­

pear from history. Schafarik (Slav. Alt. vol. i. p.

340), who considers the Sarmatians to belong to

the Median stock, connects them with the Median

word " mat" = " people," as in the termination Sau-

romatac; but it is more probable that the Sarmatians

were Slavonians. [E. B. J.]

JA'ZYGES, IA'ZYGES ('IaC^er, Steph. B.

Iazyx), a people belonging to the Sarmatian stock,

whose original settlements were on the I'alus

Maeotis. (Ptol. iii. 5. § 19; Strab. vii. p. 306;

Arrian, Anah. 1,3; Amm. Marc. xxii. 8. § 31.)

They were among the barbarian tribes armed by

Mil hriil.it i-s (Appian, Mithr. 69); during the ba­

nishment of Ovid they were found on the Danube,

and in Bessarabia and Waliachia (Ep. ex Pont

i. 2, 79. iv. 7, 9, Tritt. ii. 19. 1.) In A. D. 50,

either induced by the rich pastures of Hungary,

or forced onwards from other causes, they no longer

appear in their ancient seats, but in the plains be­

tween the Lower Theiss and the mountains of Tran­

sylvania, from which they had driven out the

Dacians. (Tac. Attn. xii. 29; Plin. iv. 12.) This

migration, probably, did not extend to the whole of

the tribe, as is implied in the surname " Metanastae;"

henceforward history speaks of the Iazvces Mkta-

5ASTAK ('ld£vyts oi Ktrai'dffrai'), who were the

Sarmatians with whom the Romans so frequently

came in collision. (Comp. Gibbon, c. xviii.) In the

second century of our era, Ptolemy (iii. 7) assigns

the Danube, the Theiss, and the Carpathians us the

limits of this warlike tribe, and enumerates the

following towns as belonging to them: — Uscesum

(OfoKiyovy, Bormamuu or Gdrmasum (Bop/uuw,

at. Tippavov); Abieta or Akinta ('ASfnro, nl.

"ASicTa); TuissuM (Tpicrffoi'); C-andam im (Kar-

tiror); 1'arca (Ilapxa); Peksium (Mooioy); and

Paktisltm (napTio-Kor). These towns were, it

would seem, constructed not by the Iazyges them­

selves, who lived in tents and waggons, hut by the

former Slave inhabitants of Hungary; and this sup­

position is confirmed by the fact that the names are

partly Keltic and partly Slavish. Mannert and

Keichard (Forbiger, vol. iii. p. 1111) have guessed

at the modern representatives of these places, but

Schafarik (Slav. Alt. vol. i. p. 514) is of opinion

that no conclusion can be safely drawn except as to

the identity of Petth with Pessium, and of Potisije

with Partiscum.

The Iazyges lived on good terms with their neigh­

bours on the \V., the German Quadi (Tac. But iii.

5), with whom they united for the purpose of subju­

v 4

