SPARTA. 1027 SPARTA.

• . V ted for a citmdel than any other, as being

from the rest, and at one angle of the

tat Cartioi supposes it to have stood upon the

f&e theatre, as being the only one with a suf-

l't larga surface on tiif summit to contain the

nu buildings which stood upon the Acropolis.

ktltroptmaa appears the more probable; and

inil. cleared from its surrounding rubbish,

mttd witb a wall, and crowned with buildings,

I iuv» presented a much more striking appear-

iiaa it does it present.

ttlwt building on the Acropolis was the tem-

f Athens Chalcioecus, the tutelary goddess of

ty It tu said to liave been begun by Tyn-

i, but was long afterwards completed by

lu, vbo wu celebrated a* an architect, sta­

ted poet. He caused the whole building to

■ -i with plates of bronze or brass, whence

nnpit wu tailed the Brazen House, and the

■ received the surname of Chalcioecus. On

roni* plates there were represented in relief

tw.n of Hercules, the exploits of the Dioscuri,

*i'o* releasing his mother from her chains,  
iitnphs arming Per-eus for his expedition

t Medusa, the birth of Athena, and Amphi-

ad Poseidon. Gitiadas also made a brazen

rf the goddess. (Paus. iii. 17. §§ 2, 3.)

wti House stood in a sacred enclosure of

nta extent, surrounded by a stoa or colon-

>ad containing several sanctuaries. There

•eparata temple of Athena Ergano. Near

ttiwrn stoa was a temple of Zeus Cosmetas,

*we it the tomb of Tyndareus; the western  
•uined two eagles, bearing two victories, de-

• br Lvaander in commemoration of his vie­

wer the Athenians. To the left of the

i thaw wu a temple of the Muses; behind it

of Ares Areia, with very ancient wooden

. and U> its right a very ancient statue of Zeus

K by Learchus of Rhcgium, parts of which

a*ened together with" nails. Here also was

a booth or tent, which Curtius con-

■ to hive been the otrnna ov f**ya, % t^v rov

Thnc. i 134), where Pausanias took refuge

icvfeant. Near the altar of the Brazen

(tool two statues of Pausar.ias, and also

V Aphrodite Ambologe"ra (delaying old age),

the brothers Sleep and Death. The statues

Buuaa were set up by order of the Delphian

-ipiate his being; starved to death within  
*d precinct*. (Paus. iii. 17. § 2—18. § I.)  
ftg-wa wan a spacious place, surrounded, like

market-places, with colonnades, from

■t -treeta issued to the different quarters of

Here were the public buildings of the

H«,— the council-house of the Gerusia and

nd the offices of the Kphori, Nomophylaces,

■*s. The moat splendid building was the Per-

i, which had been frequently repaired and

, sad was still perfect when Pausanias

the city. The Agora contained statues of

«^ar and Augustus: in the latter was a

taliie of the prophet Agias. There was a

■* l Chorus, marked off from the rest of the

•cauie the Spartan youths here danced in

of Apollo st the festival of the Gymno-

Thts place was adorned with statues of the

dertifS, Apollo, Artemis, and Leto; and

*m temples of Karth, of Zeus Agoraeus, nf  
ea, of Apollo, of Poseidon Asplmleius,

In the Agora was a colossal statue

representing the people of Sparta, and a temple of

the Moerae or Fates, near which was the tomb of

Orestes, whose bones had been brought from Tegea

to Sparta in accordance with the well-known tale in

Herodotus. Near the tomb of Orestes was the

statue of king Polydorus, whose effigy was used

as the seal of the state. Here, also, was a Hermes

Agoraeus bearing Dionysus as a child, and the old

Ephoreia, where the Ephorfl originally administered

justice, in which were the tombs of Kpimenides the

Cretan and of Aphareus the Aeolian king. (Paus.

iii. 11. §§ 2—11.)

The Agora was near the Acropolis. Lycnrgus,

it ts said, when attacked by his opponents, fled for

refuge from the Agora to the Acropolis; but was

overtaken by a fiery youth, who struck out one of

his eyes. At the spot where he was wounded, Ly-

curgus founded a temple of Optiletis* or Ophthal­

mitis, which must have stood immediately above the

Agora. Plutarch says that it lay within tho

tcmenos of the Brazen House; and Pausanias men­

tions it, in descending from the Acropolis, on the

way to the so-called Alpium, beyond which was a

temple of Ammon, and probably also a temple of

Artemis Cnagia. (Pint. Lye 11; Apophth. Lac,

p. 227, b.; Paus. iii. 18. § 2.) The Agora may be

j laced in the great hollow east of the Acropolis (Map,

2). Its position is most clearly marked by Pausanias,

who, going westwards from the Agora, arrived im­

mediately st the theatre, after passing only the

tomb of Brasidas (iii. 14. § 1). The site of the

theatre, which he describes as a magnificent build­

ing of white marble, has been already described.

The principal street, leading out of the Agora, was

named Aphctais ('A^erafi), the Corso of Sjarta

(Map. dd). It ran towards the southern wall, through

the most level part of the city, and was bordered by

a succession of remarkable monuments. First rarne

the house of king Polydorus, named Booneta (Bow-

j ->;r;t). because the state purchased it from his

widow for some oxen. Next came the office of the

Bidiaei, who originally had the inspection of the

race-course; and opposite was the temple of Athena

Celeutheia, with a statue of the goddess dedicated

by Ulysses, who erected three statues of Celeutheia

in different places. Lower down the Aphetais oc­

curred the heroa of lope, Ampliiara:is, and Lelex,—

the sanctuary of Poseidon Taenarius,— a statue of

Athena, dedicated by the Tarentini, — the place

called Hellenium, so called because the Greeks

are said to have held counsel there either before the

Persian or the Trojan wars,—the tomb of Talthy-

bius, — an altar of Apollo AcreiUs,—a place sacred

to the earth named Gaseptum,—a statue of Apollo

Maleates, — and close to the city walls the temple- of

Dfctynna, and the royal sepulchres of the Eurypon-

tidae. Pausanias then returns to the Hellenium,

probably to the other side of the Aphetais, where he

mentions a sanctuary of Arsinoe. the sister of tho

wives of Castor and Pollux; then a temple of

Artemis near the so-called Phruria (ipovpta), which

were perhaps the temporary fortifications thrown up

before the completion of the city walls; next the

tombs of the lamidae, the Eleian prophets,— sanc­

tuaries of Maro and Alpheius, who fell at Ther­

mopylae,—the temple of Zeus Tror«eus, built by the

Dorians after conquering the Achaean inhabitants of

Laconia, and especially the Amyclaei,—the temple

* So called, because ottIAoi was the I-accdaemo-  
nian form for wt>0aA/«f, Pint 11.

r

3 u 2

