ROMA. 733 ROMA.

/^■b which eikt prra to the present day ; he im-'

jrrrf tbt Cimu Maximus, planned the temple of

La* CapitoliM Jopiler, and erected the first por-

■ ujJ uitfnue around the forum (Liv. i. 35,

»; Vmyu iii. 67—69; Tac Hist. iii. 72) ; in

i vi-, it must be regarded as the founder of the sub-

architectural splendour of Rome.

The •Afciooal ijare included by Sen'ius Tullius

i -V jm d will which he completed is variously

»*iv] >n Arfrreut authors. Dionysius (iv. 13) and

kvn (r.p 134) relate that be added the Viminal

nd Ejealii* hilts: Liry states that the hills which

V a!dnl wen the Quirinal and Viminal, and that he

or improved the Esquiline (u anget Esqui­

re l. 44); while Victor ( Vir. III. 7) mentions that

wtUsi all three. It is possible that Livy means

! hack or eastern portion of the Quirinal and

► t..: it which run tether into one common ridge,

■i. ■tali wis fortified by the agger of Servius

and in this way we may account for his

:v~vi<i \A "aucet Esqnilias," which alludes to

aiBaian of the hill, and the consequent amal-

estfwe <t its previously separate tongues, tlie Op-

•■■ v-1 r»^us. Hence there is but little real con-

lAma is these apparently divergent statements.

■*r» fat elder Tarquin may dispute with Servius

■ l»**r of having huilt the walls of Rome, yet

■ ■ t*:nrtioo of the agger is unanimously ascribed

v-iin, with the single exception of Pliny (iii.

[ vie attributes it to Tarquin the Proud. The

fcaa, hmm, has prevailed of ascribing not only

* '. j: tie waJla also, to Servius. A description  
- »all» and of their gates, and an inquiry into

* "rrtafaeoce of the Servian city, will be found  
'' part of this article; but there are two

j'*atii, in some degree connected with one

■ V "htch require investigation here, namely,

f bfitm or* Servius and the Septimontium.

•/* Servius. — Servius divided the city

*" r;o^iti/(iihtricts or regions, which, however,

* a* MBtrensurate with its extent. Their num-  
•**a to hart been connected with that of the

'^"•v, bat there are many particulars concerning

11 b racnot be explained. Our knowledge

fca 3 chiefly derived from Varro (L. L. § 45,

* Wall), from whom we learn that they were:

* ^rrwaa, the limits of which cannot be prc-  
!y ^naified, bat which embmccd the Caclian

**w Tii>T ri the Colosseum, and part of the Sacm  
wttfern portion of the southern tongue of

F*v '» (Motw Oppius) known as the Carinac,

i-ewi,—which seen is to have been the valley

*t the valley between the Esquiline and Cae-  
-*H the Suborn, or valley north of the Oppius.  
^■^•feima or Esqviiiae, which comprehended

or N. tcngue of the Enquiline (Mons

■* «^d its eastern buck or ridge, as far as the

m »agger of Servius, and perhaps also the

n *ck ef the Oppius. HI. The Coilina, so

[ Hm iu embracing the Quirinal and Viminal

*-*a, as we have before said, were called  
1 ** ov'radiatinction to the other hills called

K Tat oterremng valleys were, of course,

k"* IV. The Palatum or Palatium, embraced

ail aiti jta two spurs or offshoots, Velia and

we ciXT-pare these1 regions with the map of

1 ** wt immediately struck with some remark-

■waiea. Thus, the Capitoline bill, with the

r tr tot E. (f.*-um). and valley to the S. (Ve-

tM >'.)rum Boariuxxi), together with the

Aventine, are entirely excluded. Various conjec­

tures have been proposed to account for these omis­

sions. Some have imagined that the Capitol was

excluded because the division of Servius regarded

only the plebeian tribes, and that the Capitol was

inhabited solely by patricians. Becker {I/andb. p.

386) rightly rejects this hypothesis; but another,

which he prefers to it, seems hardly better founded,

namely, that the hill, as being the citadel, was oc­

cupied with public buildings to the exclusion of all

private ones, or, at all events, as being common to

all, could not be incorporated with any one region.

But this would have been a better reason for the

exclusion of the Quirinal, which was at that time

the proper capitol of the city ; nor does it seem to be

a fact that private buildings were excluded from the

Capitol. Various reasons have also been assigned for

the exclusion of the Aventine; the princi|«l of which

are, the unfavourable auguries which had appeared

upon it to Remus, and the circumstance of its con-

taining a temple of Diana, which was common to all

the I^atin nation, and therefore prevented the hill

from being made a portion of the city.

But if we attentively read the account given by

Varro of the Servian Regions (L. L. v. §§ 41 — 54,

MUll), we shall perceive that the division was entirely

guided by the distribution of the Argive chapels, in­

stituted probably by Kuina; though Varro does not ex­

plain why they should have had this influence. Thus,

after giving an account of the Capitoline and Aven­

tine, he proceeds to say (§ 45): "Reliqua urbis loca

olim discreta, quom Argeorum sacraria in septem et

xx. partis urbis sunt disposita. Argeos dittos pu-

tant a principibus qui cum Hercule Argivo venere

Romam et in Saturnia subsederunt. E quia prima

est scripta Regio Suburana, sccunda Exquilina,

tertia Coilina, quarta 1'alatina." Ho then proceeds

to enumerate the cacraria or chapels in each regio,

mentioning six in each, or twenty-four in all, though

he had called them twenty-seven in the passage just

quoted.

The obvious meaning of this passage is, that "the

other parts of the city were formerly separated (i. e,

from the Capitoline and Aventine) at the time when

the Argive chapels were distributed into twenty-

seven parts of the city.** It would hardly, perhaps,

be necessary to state this, had not some eminent

scholars put a different interpretation on the passage.

Thus Bunsen (Beschreibung der Stadt Horn, vol. i.

p. 147), whose general view of the matter teems to he

approved of by Becker (Ilandb. p. 127, note 183),

takes Varro's meaning to be, that the remaining parts

of the city did not originally form each a separate

district, like the Capitol and Aventine, but were

divided into smaller parts, with different names.

This view has l>eeii already condemned by Muller

(rtrf toe), and indeed its improbability is btriking;

but it requires a somewhat minute examination («f

the passage to show that it is altogether untenable.

Livy also mentions these chapels as follows : "Multa

alia sacrificia locaque sacris faciecdis, quae Argeos

pontin'ces vocant, dedicavit (Numa)." (i. 21.) Now

Bunsen is of opinion that the statements of Livy

and Varro are inconsistent, and that whilst the

former under the name of Argd means places^ the

latter alludes to men. In conformity with this view

he proceeds to construe the passage in Varro as fol­

lows: "The name of Argive* is derived from the

chiefs who camo with the Argive Hercules to Rome

and settled in Saturnia. Of these jxirts of the city

we find first described (viz. in the Sacris Argeorum)

