PELODES. PELORUS. 57!

u <

issnias (vii. 27). Of these, tlie roost

• a temple of Athena, with a stutiie of

aid To hare been one of the earlier

a temple of Dionvsus Lampter,

i festival. Lampteria, was cele-

nple of Apollo Theoxenius, to whom a

ts celebrated; a gymnasium,

. Sarr Madia from the city was the Mysneum

itmm ), a tempi* of the Mjaian Demeter; and

til Kraaieof Asclepins, called Cyrus (KOpoi):

nil <t tase places there were copious springs,

i rum of Pellene are situated at Ziyr6, and are

i alW 7W«Wi. The two temples of Mysaeum

Cyras an placed by Leake at Trikkala, SE. of

dev. (Leake, iforto, roL iii. p. 215,

:p.wi.)

I Aeciom and Pellene, there was a Tillage

iW Pellfne. celebrated for the manufacture

i pmrahr kind of cloaks, which were given as

a> a Oto ag oni.tie contests in the city. (Strub.

VX; Find. OL is. 146, with Schol.; Aristoph.

Ml. with Schol.; Hesveh. and Phot, a v.

•vol rAoirai.) K. 0. Mttller (Aw. vol. ii.

HI auwviei, questions this second Pellene: be

■as mat Sera bo is describing Pellene as both

V mi vitiate, and he corrects the test, aural

wre(i Ary-.ou ml KvAA^s, instead of rWA-

n. bat tie oootext renders this conjecture im-

at sarfeoar of Pellene was called Aristonai tak

rsasu), and was distant 60 stadia from

a». ass] ISO from Aegeira. It is said to hare

r raOed from tbe Argonauts having landed

its the aSJiu of their voyage. (Paus. vii. 26.

| i It. § 2.) It was probably on the site of

\*s-t Kamiri. (Leake, Morea, vol. Iii. p. 384.)

•r s> tax E-. near tbe coast, was the fortress

r • "oxatvos), dependent upon Pellene; Leake

la at Xjio-autro. It would thus have stood

r in ess ■ of* the gorge leading from the mari-

£n into tb» territory of Pellene, and would

itki

0"<

of great importance to tbe

(Xen. Hell. vii. 14. §§ 17,

iii. 3; Steph. B. ».».; Leake,

Aristonautae was Goju'hsa

i), to which Homer gives

pass a** lorry (aiaws)). According to Pau-

i a> proper nsune was 1)o;iussa (Aovovaaa),

)*m caaaaged by Peisistratns into Gonocssa,

at eaUactcd the poems of Homer. Pausanias

hat at «ts» a fortress belonging to the Sicy-

l aat kay bet wen Aegeira and Pellene; but

■ pattiaa w» miv infer that it was at one

fapafaat upon Pellent. Leake places it at

-I torn Wtj nwontain, at tbe foot of which  
Aristonantae. (Horn. //. ii.

§ 13; Leake. toL iii. p. 385.)

[Pella^a.]

PORTUS. [Bt-rnnoTCM.]

ITClSULAE, nine small islands lying

hacav «• tlw Argolic coast. (Pans. ii. 34.

TWt rat be the islands lying between

o*f which Pityonnesua (An-

ghtotri) is the largest. (Plin. iv. 12. s. 20; Leake,

Morea, ToL ii. p. 455.)

PEL0P0NNF/SUS. [Graecia.]

PELO'RUS, PELCVRIS, or PELOTtl AS (nfavpot

&Kpa, Ptol.; lleAifpwf, Time, Dion. Per ; IfaAafpsttfj

Pol., Strab.: Can© diFaro), a celebrated promontory

of Sicily, forming the NR. extremity of the whole

island, and one of the three promontories which were

considered to give to it the triangular form from

which it derived the name of Trinacria. (Pol. i. 42;

Strab. vi. pp. 265,266; Diod. v. 2; Plin. iii. 8. s. 14;

Dion. Per. 467—472; Ovid. Met xiii. 727.) It

was at the same time the point which projected

furthest towards tl>e opposite coast of Italy; so that

the narrowest part of the Sicilian straits was that

which lay between Cape Pelorns and the coast ad­

joining the headland of Caenys (Punta del Pezzo) on

the coast of Brnttium. [Caknys.] A strange story

is told by some Roman writers that it derived its

name from the pilot of Hannibal, who was put to

death by that general from a suspicion of treachery;

thus overlooking the fact that it was known by that

name to the Greeks for centuries before the time of

Hannibal. (Mel. ii. 7. § 17; Val. Max. ix. 8. § I;

Sal I tut, ap. Serv. ad Aen. iii. 411.) The actual

headland of Pelorns, now called the Capo del Fitro,

is a low, sandy point; but About 2 miles from its ex­

tremity there begins a ridge of hills which quickly

rises into a range of mountains, of no great elevation,

but steep and strongly marked. These continue in

an unbroken range at the back of Messina, near

which they attain a height of about 3000 feet, and

flank the east coast of the island as far as the neigh­

bourhood of Taormina, where they turn abruptly to

the W. and stretch across in that direction without

any real interruption, till they join the more lofty

group of the Monte Madonia. It is to this range

of mountains that the name of Mom NeftcxiU

is applied by Solinus (5. § 12), and which that

author describes as separating the Tyrrhenian and

Adriatic (i. e. Sicilian) seas. But there is no real

geographical line of separation between these moun­

tains and those further W., which were known to

the ancients as the Mons Nkbrodks.

The headland of Pelorus may thus be looked upon

as the extremity of a great mountain promontory,

formed by the range of the Mons Keptunius, and

extending from the neighbourhood of Messina to

that of Milazzo (Mylae), or, in a still wider sense,

from Tauromenium on the E. coast to Tyndaris on

the N. Diodorus calls it 100 stadia from the pro­

montory to Messana, and the distance is still com­

monly reckoned 12 miles, though it docs not really

exceed 8. (Diod. xiv. 56.)

From its proximity to Messana and its position

commanding the passage of the straits, Pelorns w.is

an important naval station, and as such its name is

frequently mentioned in history. Thus, in B.C. 425,

when the Athenian fleet under Laches was established

at Rhegium, the Syracusans and their allies took

post with their fleet at Pelorus, where they were sup­

ported also by a land force. (Time. ir. 25.) In

B.C. 396 the Carthaginian general Himilco took p«*t

at Pelorus with his fleet and army, and, when tlie

Messanians sallied out to attack him, by taking ad­

vantage of a north wind, sent his fleet down suddenly

to Messana, which was surprised and taken before

the troops could return to its defence. (Diod. xiv.

56, 57.) Again, during the siege of Messana by

the Carthaginians at the commencement of the First

Punic War, it was at Pelorus that their fleet was

