RUBRAE. KCBRUM MARE. 857

rifk The name of Itugone, applied to one of tlie

ire branches of tlie Fiumicino, would be of more

i-ur. if it were ceruin that this name h:id not been

0'h*tnJ by antiquarians to suit their own purposes,

•t it appears that old maps and books write the

M /tipwL Two arguments, however, may be

aatord as almost decisive in favour of the Finmi-

ua» compared with the Uuos 1st The distance

><i .11 the Tabula of 12 miles from Ariminom,

n-.-n!M exactly with the distance of the Fiumicino

n last e4y, aa stated by Cluverius, who examined

> ^urstion on the spot; and 2ndly, the redness of

• ;•»••>I in the lied of the stream, from which it

s imposed to have derived its name, mid which is

tjnil; alludtd to by Sidonius Apollinaris, as well

I' Ucao (Sidon. Ep. i. 5; Lucan, i. 214), was

tarked by Cluverius as a character of the Fiu-

r>>w. which was wholly wanting in the Luto.

^ r.:romatance which has beeu relied on by some

tan. that the latter river is a more considerable

. rapid stream than the other, and would therefore

4*sle a better frontier, is certainly of no value,

Luean distinctly speaks of the Rubicon as a

bat stream, with little water in it except when

h-as by the winter ruins.

tat arguments in favour of the Fiumicino or

atrial (if we retain the name of the principal of

'Jiit continents) thus appear decidedly to prc-

■ante; bat the question still requires a careful

aunties on the spot, for the statements of Clu-

ae, though derived from persona) observation, do

U» well with the modern maps, and it is not

ncuole ttwt the petty streams in question may

* s&dergime considerable changes since his time:  
awt probable is it that such changes may have

a plan sines) the time of Caesar. (Cluver. Ital.

36 — 299; Blomdi Klavii Italia llluttrata,

KJ; Albert!, Detcrizione tf Italia, p. 246;

psj. Carta as Jlomagna; Mannert. Oecgrajthie

Jasleas, vol. i. p. 234; Murray's Handbook fur

-il Italy, p. 104. The older dissertations on  
•atjiTt will be found in Graevius and Bur­

ks Tktmnu, vol. vii. part 2.) [K. H. H.J

CBKAE and Al> BUBBAS, a town in His-

s Bartica, now Cabczat Kubiat. (/<- Ant. p.

) [T. 11.1).]

iwacsrs i.acu& [Atax.]

1;BK1CATA ( PooeoiWa, Ptol. ii. 6. § 74),

aland city of the Laee'tani in the NK. part of

sasa Tamconerisis, on the river Uubrieatus;

■i*t to Keicliard, Olaa. [T. H. 1).]

CBUCA'TL'S o«- -UM CPoofiphraToj, l'tol. ii.

IS), a nrer of Hispania Tarracouensis flowing

•a- Mare Internum a little \V. of Barcino, the

ra LUbrtgat. (Mela, ii. 6. § 5; Plitv. iii. 3. s.

[T.H.D.]

rBRIPATUS, in Numidia. [ICmi'ihucatus.]

iUl'M MARE, or ERYTHliAElM MAIM.

'.< oiAa^-rj. Ji- r- • i. ISO, 202, ii. 8, 158,

« 39: I'olvb. r. 54. § 12, ix. 43. § 2; Si rub.

- 3?. 33, AO, 56, xvi. pp. 765, 779, xvii. pp.  
415. Pomp. Mela, iii. 8. § 1; Plin. ti 2. 6. 7).

i -: Erythr* in Herodotus has a wide ex­

it iacliklirtg the Indian Ocean, and its two

il* fad Sea and the Persian Gulf [Pkksicus

*' ■turn latter he d«*» not seem to have con-  
>iyi rait", but as part of a continuous sea-

*?*f Uh /tW Sat specifically U meant it bears  
ua* *** Arabic us Sinus [Aradicus Sinus].

tVark, vail-like masses of coral which form the

» m fringing reefs of the cleft by which the

waters of the Indian Ocean advance through the

8trait8 of Bab-el-Mandeb, with their red and purple

hues, were no doubt the original source of the name.

Thus also in Hebrew (Exod. x. 19, xiii. 18; Ps.

cvi. 7, 9, 22) it was called "yam sftph," or the

** weedy sea," from the coralline forests lying below  
tlie surface of the water. Ramses Miamouin (Sesos-

tris) was the first (from 1388 to 1322, B.C.) — so

said the priests — who with long ships subjected to

his dominion the dwellers on the coast of the Eryth­

raean, until at length sailing onwards, lie arrived nt

a sea so shallow as to be no longer navigable.

Diodorus (i. 55, 56; comp. Herod, ii. 102) asserts

that this conqueror advanced in India beyond the

Ganges, while Strabo (xvi. p. 760) speaks of a

memorial pillar of Sesostris near the strait of Deire

or Bab-el-Mandeb. It appears that the Persian

Gulf had been opened out to Phoenician navigation

as three places were found there which bore similar

if not identical names with those of Phoenicia, Tylus

or Tyros, Aradus, and Dora (Strab. xvi, pp. 760,

784, comp. i. p. 42), in which were temples resem­

bling those of Phoenicia (comp. Kenrick, Phoenicia,

p. 48). The expeditions of Hiram and Solomon,

conjoint undertakings of the Tyrians and Israelites,

sailed from Ezion Geber through the Straits of Bab-

el-Mandeb to Ophir, one locality of which may be

fixed in the basin of tlie Erythraean or Indian Ocean

[Ophik]. The Lagid kings of Aepypt availed

themselves with great success of the channel by

which nature brought the traffic and intercourse of

the Intlian Ocean, within a few miles of the coast of

the Interior Sea. Their vessels visited tlie whole

western peninsula of India from the gulf of liary-

gaza, Guzerat, and Catnbay, along the coasts of

Malabar to the Hrahminical sanctuaries of Cajte

Comorin, and to the great island of Taprnbane or

Cryton. Nearchus and the companions of Alex­

ander were not ignorant of the existence of the

periodical winds or monsoons which favour the

navigation between the E. coast of Africa, and the

N. and \Y. coasts of India. Erom the further know­

ledge acquired by navigators of this remarkable

local direction of the wind, they were afterwards

emboldened to sail from Ocelis in the straits of Bab-

cl-Mawleb and hold a direct coune along the oj>en

sea to Miiziris. the great mart on the Malabar

coast (S. of Mangahrr), to which internal traffic

brought articles of commerce from the E. coast of

the Indian peninsula, and even gold from the remote

Chryse. The Roman empire in its greatest extent

on its E. limit reached only to the meridian of the

Persian Gulf but Stmbo (i. p. 14, ii. p. 118, xvi.

p. 781, xvii. pp. 798, 815) saw in Aegypt with

surprise the number of ships which sailed from

Myos Ilonnos to India. From the Zend and San­

scrit words which have been preserved in the gen-

graphical nomenclature of Ptolemy, his tabular

geography remains nn historic monument of the

commercial relations W-tween tlie West and the most

distant regions of Southern and Central Asia. At

the same time Ptolemy (iv. 9, vii. 3. § 5) did not

give up the fable of the" unknown southern land"

connecting Prasum Prom, with CaHigara and

Thinac (Sinaruin Meln^'lis). and therefore joined

E. Africa with the land of Tsin or China, This

isthmus-hypothesis, derived from views which may

! be traced back to Hipparchus and Marinus of Tyre,

in w hich, however. Slrabo did not concur, made the

Indian Ocean a Mediterranean sea. About half a

century later than Ptolemy a minute, and a* it ap­

