392 MYUS. XABATAEI.

tain. It was probably bat a small town, though

strongly fortified, whence Pbilistus (pp. Steph. B.

». v.) called it "a fortress of Sicily." It is con­

spicuously mentioned during the First Punic War.

when it was in the hands of the Carthaginians, and

was besieged by the Romans, but for some time with­

out success, on account of the great strength of its

position; it was at length taken by the consul A.

Atilius Calatimis in u. c. 258. The inhabitants

were cither put to the sword or sold as slaves, and

the town itself entirely destroyed. (Pol. i. 24;

Diod. xxiii. 9, Exc. lioetch. p. 503; Zonar. viii.)

It was, however, again inhabited at a later period, as

we find the Mutustratiui mentioned by Pliny among

the municijKil towns of the interior of Sicily. (Plin. iii.

8. a. 14.) But no notice of its name occurs in the

interval, ami Cluverios (who has been followed by

many modern geographers) would, therefore, identify

Mytistratus with Amestratus: an assumption for

which there are certainly no sufficient grounds, both

names being perfectly well attested. [Amestka-

TC8.] (Clnver. SicU. p. 383.) [K. H. B.]

MYrS(Muooy: Kth. MoooVios), an Ionian town

in Caria, on the southern bank of tlie Maeander, at a

distance of 30 stadia from the mouth of that river.

Its foundation was ascribed to Cydrelus, a natural

son of Codrus. (Strab. xiv. p. 633.) It was the

smallest among the twelve Ionian cities, and in the

days of Strabo (xiv. p. 636) the ]x>pulati<>n was so

reduced that they did not form a jiolitical commu­

nity, but became incorporated with Miletus, whither

in the end the Myusians transferred themselves,

abandoning their own town altogether. This last

event happened, according to Pausanias (vii. 2. § 7),

on account of the great number of flies which an­

noyed the inhabitants; but it was more probably on

account of the frequent inundations to which the

place was exposed. (Vitruv. iv. 1.) Mytis was one

of the three towns given to Theniistocles by the

Persian king (Thucyd. i. 138; Diod. Sic. xi. 57;

Plut. Them. 29; Athen. i. p. 29; Nep. Them. 10.)

During the Peloponncsian War the Athenians ex­

perienced a check near this place from the Carinas.

(Thucyd. iii. 19.) Philip of Macedonia, who had

obtained possession of Myus, ceded it to the Mag-

nesians. Athen. iii. p. 78.) The only edifice

noticed by the ancients at Myus was a temple of

Dionysus, built of white marble. (Pans. /. c.) The

mmense quantity of deposits carried down by the

Maeander liave considerably removed the coast-line,

so that even in Strabo's time the distance between

Myus and the sea was increased to 40 stadia (xii.

p. 579), while originally the town had no doubt

been built on the coast itself. Tliere still are some

ruins of .Myus, which most travellers, forgetting the

changes wrought by the Maeander, have mistaken

for those of Miletus, while those of lleracleia have

been mistaken for those of Myus. (Comp. I.eakc,

Alia Minor, p. 239, &C.) The mistake is repeated

by Sir C. Fellows (Journal of a Tour in At. Min.

p. 263), though it had been pointed out long before

his time. [L. S.J

N

NAAHDA (Nad>5o, Plol. t. 18. § 7; Steph. B.

*. r.; Ntapta, Joseph. Ant. xviii. 12), a small place  
in Mesopotamia, near Sipphara. It is probably the

same ns that called in the Peutinger Table Naluu'ra.

Josrphus sneaks (/. f.) of Nearda as a place in

»sj7ii *-■;•* no eiiuaiiM insu urn

tance from flaghjLkL f V.j

[Babvloxia, Vol. L p.

Babylonia, possessing an extensive range of territory,

and defended from hostile attack by the Euphrates,

which Mows round it. When Tiberius overthrew

the Jews in the East, the remnant of that people

took refuge iu Nanrda and Kisibis; and the former

city long remained a place of refuge for the Jews.

In the intermediate records of the Christian East

wc find occasional notices of this place, noder the

titles of N'ahardcir and Beth-Xuhadra. Thus, is

A. i>. 421, a bishop of Xsliiirdcir is mentioned ( Aa-

sem. BiU. Orient, iii. p. 264); in A. u. 755, J.ioas

is bishop of Beth-Xuhadra (Assem. ii. p. Ill):

and as late as A. n. 1285. another |*Tson is recorded

as " Kpiscopus Nuhmlrensis.* (A>sem. ii. p. 249.)

During all this period Xearda is included within the

episcopal province of Mosul. Lastly, in the Travels

of Benjamin of Tudela, which took plate towards

the end of the 12th century, the traveller mrottau

going to " Juba, which is Pumbeditha, in Xeharuea,

containing about two thousand Jews" (p. 92.

Asher's edit.); from which it appears that, at that

period, Naarda was considered to comprehend a dis­

trict with other towns in it. Pumbeditha and Lara

were two celebrated Jewish towns situated near «

another, at no great distance 1

NAARMA1.C1IA.

362, a.]

NABAEUS (NaSaTot, Ptol. ii. 3. §1), a;

the extreme north of Britannia Barbara or Caledonia,

probably the Xavern river, east of C. Wratk.

KABALIA, in the text of Tacitus (Hut. t. Sr«).

is a river in or near the Batavorum Insula, o»*r

which tliere was a bridge. During the war hrtw«n

Civilis and the Romans, there was a cunfere&r

lietween Civilis and Cercalis on this bridge, which

had been cut asunder for safety's sake, each party

at the conference keeping on his own side of the

river. It is uncertain if the name Nahalia is right;

and if it is right, it is also uncertain what toe ri*er

is. It must, however, be some stream about the

lower part of the Rhine; and Walckenacr (Oroj.

<jc. vol. i. p. 296) conjectures tliat it is the laws'

or eastern branch of the Rhine which flow* into ibe

ZnyiL-r Zee. Ptolemy (ii. 11. § 28) has a place

Navalia (NauaAia) in Great Get-mania, the position

of which, if wc can trust the,numbers, is on or near

Ptolemy's eastern branch of the Rhine, «hairier

that eastern branch may be. [<j. L_]

NABATAEl (Naffa/roToi, 'AiraroMM, PtoL Tt. 7.

§ 21; NaSdVai, Suid. t. v.; Nauaraioi, I.XX.; Nab*.

thae. Sen. Here. Oel. 160: the country, NasVrsua,

Strab.; HaGaTTirfi, Joseph.), a numerous and un^rt-

ant peo]i)e of Arabia Petraea, celebrated in the < lis-

sical geographers. Josephus describes the coai.try

as comprehending all from tlie Euphrates to the

Red Sea, i. e. the whole of tl>e northern part of tl»

Arabian peninsula ; and inhabited by tlie descftahuirt

of the 12 sons of Ishlnael, from the eldest of *h»>in.

Nebaioth, this territory is sup)iosed to hare den>nl

its name. This is confirmed by tlie authority «/ S.

Jerome, three centuries later, who writes, " Xroa»i:h

omnis regio ab Euphrate usque ad Man Kabnim

Nabathena usque hodie dicitur, quae part Arabia*

est." (Joseph. Ant. i. 13. § 4; liierwi. C'nsknt

fa (lent*, xxv. 13.) Tlie only allusion to this

people in the canonical Scriptures, supposing tiaras

identical, is by their |<itrisrchal deaignattoii; and

the mention of the "rams of KebaiotV in «•-

nrction with tlie "flocks of Kedar* (Im. lx. 7).

intimates that they existed as a dutinrt pastoral

tribe. But they occur frequently in history after

