ISSUS. 71 ISSUS.

s i hi tasted that he cams to Issus first, where he

shamefully treated the sick of the Macedonians who

had been left there. The next day lie moved from

Issus to pursue Alexander (Arrian; Curtius, iii. 8);

that is, he moved towards the Pylae, and he came to

the baiika of the river Pinarus, where he halted.

Is.-us was, therefore, north of the Pinarus, and some

little distance from it, Kiepert's map of Asia

Minor marks a pass in the range of the Syrian

Amanus, which is north of the pass that leads over

the same mountains from the east to Baiae (Bayai),

sad nearly due east of the head of the gulf of Issus.

He calls it Pylae Amanides, by which he means

the Pylae Antanicae of Arrian, not the Amanides of

fctrabo; and he takes it to be the pass by which

Darius crossed the Syrian Amanus and came down

upon the gulf. This may have been his route, and

it would bring him to Issus at the head of the gulf,

which he came to before turning south to the Pinarus

(Ikli TtcJtai). It is certain that Darius crossed

by some pass which brought him to Issus before he

reached the Pinarus. Yet Kiepert has placed Issus

south of the Pinarus, or rather between the two

branches of this river, which he represents as uniting

near the coast. Kiepert also marks a road which

passes over the junction of the two branches of the

Amanus [Auaxus, Vol. I. p. 114] and runs to

Martuh, which he supposes to be Germauicia. This

U the dotted road marked as running north from the

head of the gulf of Issus in the plan [Vol. I. p. 115];

bat even if there be such a road, it was not the road

vH Darius, which must have been the pass above men­

tioned, in the latitude of the head of the gulf of

Iseus; which is not marked in the above plan, but

ought to be. This pass is probably the Amanicae

Pylae of Ptolemy, which he places 5' further south

than Jtsus, and 1C east of Issus.

Alexander, hearing that the Persians were in his

rear, turned back to the Pylae, which he reached at

mtduight, and halted till daybreak, when he moved

on. (Arrian, Anab. ii. 8.) So long as the road

was narrow, he led his army in column, but as the

pass widened, he extended his column into line, part

towards the mountain and part on the left towards

the sea. When he came to the wide part («opfx&jota),

be arranged his army in order of battle, which

Arrian describes very particularly. Darius was

fated on the north aide of the Pinarus. It is plain,

lp'tn this description, that Alexander did not march

very fir from the Pylae before he reached the wider

part of the valley, and the river. As the sea was

on lua left, and the mountains on his right, the river

was a stream which ran down from the Syrian

Amanos; and it can be no other than the Deli

Ttckai, which is about 13 miles north of the Camus

(Merkei), direct distance. Polybius (xii. 17), who

crmd-esCallUthenes's description of the battle, (states,

on his authority, that Darius descended into Cilicia

through the Pylae Amanides, and encamped on the

Pinarus, at a place where the distance between the

mountains and the sea was not more than 14 stadia;

and that the river ran across this place into the sea,

and that in its course through the level part "it

bad abrupt and difficult eminences (Arf^ouj)." This

i* explained by what Arrian says of the banks of

the river being steep in many parts on the north

«d«. (Anab. ii. 10.) Callisthenes further said, that

*hen Alexander, after having passed the defile (to  
"»"), heard of Darius being in Cilicia, he was

1"0 stadia from him, and, accordingly, he marched

b*ck through the defile. It is not clear, from the

extract in Polybius, whether the 100 stadia are to

be reckoned to Issus or to the Pinarus. According

to Arrian, when Alexander heard of Darius being

behind him, he sent some men in a galley back to

Issus, to see if it was so; and it is most consistent

with the narrative- to suppose that the men saw

the Persians at Issus before they had advanced to

the river; but this is not quite certain. The Per­

sian army was visible, being near the coast, as it

would be, if it were seen at Issus.

Strabo (p. 676), following the historians of Alex­

ander, adds nothing to what Arrian has got from

them. Alexander, he -says, led his infantry from

Soli along the coast and through the Mallotis to

Issus and the forces of Darius; an expression whicli

might mislead, if we had no other narrative. He

also says, after Mallus is Aegae, a small town with

a harbour, then the Amanides Pylae [Amanides

Pylae], where there is a harbour; and after Aegae

is Issus, a small town with a harbour, and the river

Pinarus, where the fight was between Alexander

and Darius. Accordingly he places Issus north of,

the Pinarus. Cicero, during his proconsulship of

Cilicia, led his forces against the mountaineers of

the Amanus, and he was saluted as imperator at

Issus, "where," he says, "as I have often heard

from you, Clitarchus told you that Darius was de­

feated by Alexander." There is nothing to be got

from this. (Ad Fain, ii. 10.) In another passage,

he says that he occupied for a few days the same

camp that Alexander had occupied at Issus against

Darius. (Ad Alt v. 20.) And again (ad Fam.

xiv. 20), lie says that, " he encamped for four days

at the roots of the Amanus, at the Arae Alexandria

If this is the same fact that he mentions in his

letter to Atticus, the Arae were at Issus, and Issus

was near the foot of the Amanus.

The battle between Septimius Severus and Niger

was fought (a. l>. 194) somewhere about Issus; but

nothing can be collected from the description of

Herodian (iii. 12), except that the battle was not

fought on the same ground as Alexander's, though

it was fought on the gulf of Issus. Steplmnus (s. v.

'Ioffor) describes it as "a city between Syria and

Cilicia, where Alexander defeated Darius, which was

called, for this reason, Nicopolis by him; and there is

the bay of Issus; and there, also, is a river named

Pinarus." Strabo, after speaking of Issus, men­

tions, on the Issjc gulf, Rhosus, and Myriandrus, and

Alexandria, and Nicopolis, and Mopsuestia, in which

description he proceeds from the Syrian side of the

gulf, and terminates with Mopsuestia on the Py-

ramuB. According to this enumeration, Nicopolis

would be between Alexandria (Scanderoon) and

Mopsuestia; and it may be near Issus, or it may

not. Ptolemy (v. 8. § 7, 15. § 2) places Nicojiolis

exactly one degree north of Alexandria and 50' north

of Issus. He places Issus and Khosus in the same

longitude, and Nicopolis, Alexandria, and Myriandrus

10' further east than Issus. The absolute truth of

his numbers is immaterial. A map constructed

according to Ptolemy would place Issus at the head

of the gulf, and Nicopolis inland. Nicopolis is one

of the cities which he enumerates among the inland

cities of Cilicia Proper.

Issus, then, being at the head of the gulf, and

Tarsus being a fixed point in the march of Cyrus,

we may now see how the matter stands with Xeno-

phon's distances. Cyrus marched 10 parasangs

from Tarsus to the river Psaru8(Sarus), SUiun, and

crossed at a place where it was 300 feet wide

F 4

