612 PHOENICIA. PHOENICIA,

the Phoenicians off Salamis in Cyprus, it. c. 449,

when 100 of their .ships were taken, many sunk,

and the remnant pursued to their own harbuurs.

(Ib. c. 112.) A cessation of hostilities now ensued

between the Greeks and Persians. The Phoenician

navy continued to be employed by the latter, but

was no longer exposed to the attacks of the Athe­

nians. In b. c. 411 the Phoenicians pre) are! a

flwt of 147 ve-scls, to a-sMst the Spartans against

Athens; but after advancing as tar as Aspeudus in

Pamphjrlia it was suddenly recalled, either because

the demonstration was a mere rfwe on the part of

Tis.saphernes, or that the Phoenicians were obliged

to defend their own coast, now threatened by the

Egyptians. (Thucyd. viii. 87, 108; Diod. xiii.

38, 4fi.) They next appear as the auxiliaries of

the Athenians against the Spartans, who had gained

the naval supremacy by the battle of Aegospotami, a

preponderance which had changed the former pdiey

of Persia. The allied Meet was led by Conon and

Pharnabazua, and after tlic defeat of the Spartans

the Phoenician seamen wen- employed in rebuilding

the walls of Athens. (Diod. sir. 8t; Nep. Com,

c. 4.) These events led to a more intimate con­

nection between Phoenicia and Alliens; Phoenician

traders appear to have settled in that city, where

three Phoenician inscriptions have been discovered

of the 'late apparently ot about 380 n. i . (Gescn.

Mon. Pun. t. 111.) A few years later, a decree

was passed by the Athenian senate, establishing a

progenia between Sirato, king of Sidon, and the

Athenians; whilst an immunity from the usual bur­

thens imposed on aliens was granted to Sidoiiians

settling at Athens. (Bockh, Corp, Inter, i. 126.)

About the same time we Hud the Phoenicians, as

the subjects of Persia, engaged in a disastrous war

with Kvagoras, prince of Salamis in Cyprus, who

ravaged their coasts, and, according to Isucratea

(Evag. p. 201) and Diodorua (xiv. <J8, 110, xv. 2),

captured even Tyre itselt. Ulit in 386 B.C. Kvagoras

was defeated in a great naral engagement, and sub­

sequently became a tributary of Persia, (lb. xv. 9.)

I>uriiiij all this period Sidon appears to have been

the most wealthy and prosperous of the Phoenician

cities. (Ib. xvi. 41.) The next important event

in the history of the Phoenicians is their revolt from

Persia, which ended in a disastrous manner. Sidon

had been oppressed by the satraps and generals of

Artaxerxes Ochus; and in a general assembly of the

Phoenicians at Tripoli*, in n. c. 352. it was re­

solved to throw off the Persian yoke. The royal

residence at Sidon was destroyed and the Peruana

massacred. The Phoenicians then fortified Sidon,

and invited Nectanebu>, king of Egypt, to assist

them. In the following year Ochus made great

preparations to quell this revolt, and particularly to

punish Sidon; when Tcnues, king of that city,

alarmed at the fate which menaced him, treache­

rously negotiated to betray it to the Persians. He

inveigled 100 of the leading citizens into the

enemy's camp, where they were put to death, and

then persuaded the Egyptian mercenaries to admit

the Persians into the city. The Sidoniana, who

had burnt their fleet in order to prevent any escape

from the common danger, being thus reduced to

desjialr, shut themselves up with their wives and

children, and set tire to their bouses. Including

slaves, 40,000 persons are said to have perished on

this occasion. Ten DOS, however, suffered the merited

reward of his treason, and was either put to death

by Ochus or committed suicide. This calamity

was a great, but not a fatal, blow to tlx pnsjerti

of Sidon, which even to a much later period ittinal

a considerable portion of her opulence. (1**

xvi. 41, sqq.; Mela, i. 12.)

The cruelty of the Persians left a lastioj rooe»- i

brance, and was not wholly unrequited. When liaet I

twenty years afterwards Alexander entered PbosaS% I

Sidon hastened to open her gates to him. TheoaVat J

of Darius at Issus. n. c. 333. opened the wbulr asA I

of Phoenicia to the Greeks. On his march Akxaeaw" I

waa met by Strato, son of Gen*tratus, kitf all

Aradus, who surrendered thit iidand to him. » w*W

as some towns on the mainland. As he pvnfcU

southwards he received the submission of Btahfjj

and entered Sidon at the invitation of tbe i

He deposed Strain, their king, a vassal of tat I

Mans; and Abdolonimus, who was related tof

but who at that time followed the humble occajS

ot a gardener in the suburbs of the city. w» s

nated to the vacant throne by Alexander's fWftW

Ilephae*tion. (Curt. iv. 4.) The Tynans so*tfl

an embassy, professing submission to ttt!

donians, but without any real design of p^OfJ

their city. (Arrian, ii. 15.) It was i

however, for Alexander to proceed on ha

expedition, whilst so important a place Lty ill

rear, at l*est a doubtful friend, and, in rase off

verses, soon, perhaps, to become a declared *

With a dissimulation equal to that of the Tyi

he sought to gain possession of their t

questing ]>erinission to enter and sacrifi

rules, the progenitor of the royal race of Mat*

as well as the tutelary god of Tyre. i>«

Tyrians j>erceiving his design, directed

another temple of Hercules at Palae-Tvroa, |

he might sacrifice in all liberty and with tiill j

effect, as the func, they asserted, was t

and venerable than that of the new

i>laiid. Alexander, however, etill ;.t: * -mi t

the hater, and made preparations for bessarj

new town, (Arrian, ii. 15, 16; Cart. ie. J

The means by which he succeeded

Tyre will be found described

[Tyri s ] It will suffice here to say, thai by I

of a cau>eway, and after a seven d

city of merchant princes yielded to the

Alexander, who was assisted in the ea

ships of Sidon, Byblus, and Aradus. The i

burnt, and most of lite inhabitants either 1

sold into slavery. Alexander rrj-oopled h\ j

pally, perhaps, with Carians, who seem to I

intimately connected with the Phurnk-iana, I

find C'aria called Phoeniee by Corinna and I

lides. (Athen. iv. p. 174.) Alter the

Arbela, Alexander incor}>orated Phoenicia. I

Cilicia into one province. With the

mercial spirit the Phoenicians availed

his conquests to extend their trade, and

chants, following the track of the J

carried home myrrh and nard fmm tike

Gedrosia. (Arrian, ri. 22, Indie. 18.)

employed them to man the ships which i

down the Hydaspes to the Indian Ocean, I

to build the vessels which were con*

to Thapsacus on the Euphrates, with

descending to Babylon. (/6.) By

intended to colonise the islands and

Persian Gulf; hut his schemes were

his death, B.C 323. After that event

whom Egypt had fallen, annexed

gcther with Syria and Palestine, to

