VIA SALARIA. VIA VALERIA. 1305

and is marked in the Itineraries as 18 miles from

Rome. Here the Via Nomentana again fell into

the Salaria. (Strab. t. p. 228.) Hence to Reate

the latter road traversed a hilly country, but of no

great interest, following nearly the same line as

the modem road from Rome to liicti. The interme­

diate station of Ad Novas or Vicus Korus, as it is

called in the Antoniuc Itinerary is still marked by

ruins near the OiUria Xuova, 32 miles from Rome,

and 16 from /freer. Here an old church still bore at

a late period the name of I'tco A'uoro.

The stations on the original Via Salaria, from

Rome to Keate, are correctly given, and can clearly

be identified.

From Rome to

Eretura (Grotla ifarmzti) - xviii. M.P.

Vicus Novus (Ott. Suova) - xiv.

Keate (Jiieti) - - - - zvL

From Reate the Via Salaria (or the continuation

of it as given in the Itineraries) proceeded nearly

doe E. by Cutiliae, which is identified by its cele­

brated lake, or rather mineral springs, to Interocrea

(Antrodoeo), situated at the junction of two natural

passes or lines of communication through the central

Apennines. The one of these leads from Interocrea

to Amiternum, in the upper valley of the A tern us,

and was followed by a cross-road given in the Tabula,

but of which both the stations and the distances are

extremely confused: the other, which is the main

valley of the Velinus, and bears nearly due N., was

ascended by the Via Salaria as far as Falacrinum,

16 miles from Interocrea, and near the sources of

the Velinus. Thence that road crossed the ridge

of tbe Apennines and descended into the valley of the

J'ronto (Truentus), which river it followed to its

mouth at Caslrum Truentinum, passing on the way by

the strongly situated city of Asculum (Aiculi). The

distances on this line of route are thus correctly

given in tbe Antonine Itinerary (p. 307):

From Reate to

Cutiliae (near Paterno) - - viii. ll. r.

Interocrea (Antrodoeo) - - vi.

Falacrinum (near Cicita HeaW) - xvi.

Vicus Badies - - - - ix.

Ad Centesimum* - • - x.

Ascalum (Ascoli) - xii.

Castrum Truentinum - - xx.

From this last point two roads branclied oft", the

one turning N-, and proceeding along the coast of

the Adriatic to Ancona; the other proceeding S.

along the same coast to Castrum Novum (near

Outiia Atiora), and thence to Adria (Atri). The

Litter branch is given in the Itinerary as a part of

tlie Via SaUria; but it is clear that neither of them

properly belonged to that highway, both being in

£xct only portions of the long line of road which

followed the coast of the Adriatic continuously from

Anruuato Brundusium, and which is given in the An­

tonine Itinerary in connection with the Via Elaininia

(/tin. Ant. pp.313—316). (The course of the Via

* It is clear from the name that this station was  
■ iistant 100 miles from Rome, while the distances

above given would make up only 97 miles : but it

it uncertain at what precise point the deficiency

occurs. The Tabula gives 9 miles from Keate to

Culi&je, and 7 thence to Interocrea: if these dis­

tances be adopted the result is 99 miles, leaving

a, discrepancy of only one mile. In either case the

approximation is sufficient to show the general cor­

rectness of tha Itineraries.

Salaria is examined, and the distances discussed in

detail by D'Anville, Analyte Geographiqut de CItalie

pp. 163—169.) [E. U. B.]

VIA SUBLACENSIS. [Via Valeria.]

VIA TIBEKINA, a name found in inscriptions,

and noticed by the Notitia and CurioMim among the

roads that issued from the gates of Rome, was in all

probability the road that quilted the Via Elaminia

at Saxa Rubra, and followed the right bank of the

Tiber until it rejoined the Via Elaminia, between

Acqua Viva and Bergketto, The existence of such

a road is known from remains of it still visible: and

it is the only one to which the name of Via Tiberina

can well be applied. (Westphal, Hum. Kamp. pp.

134, 138.) [E. H. B.]

VIA TIBUBTINA [Via Valeria.]

VIA TRAJANA. [Via Appia, No. 4.]

VIA VALERIA (h OooAepla *M», Strab.), one

of the most celebrated and important of the Roman

highways, which led from Rome, or, more strictly

speaking, from Tibur, to the lake Eucinus and the

land of the Marsi, and thence was subsequently

continued to the Adriatic, at the mouth of ihe Ater-

nus. The period of its construction is uncertain.

It has indeed been frequently supposed to have de­

rived its name from, and to have been the work of,

M. Valerius Maximus, who was censor with C. Junius

Bubulcus in B. c. 307; but the expression of Livy,

that the two constructed roads " per agros," would

certainly seem to refer to cross-roads in the neigh­

bourhood of Rome; and it is very improbable that

the construction of so celebrated a highway an tho

Via Valeria should not have been more distinctly

stated. (Liv. ix. 43.) The Via Valeria, indeed,

was properly only a continuation of the Via Tibur-

tina, which led from Rome to Tibur; and thuugh

the Itineraries include the whole line of route under

the name of the Via Valeria, it appears that the dis­

tinction was still kept up in the time of Stnibo, who

distinctly speaks of the Valerian Way as btyinnmg

from Tibur, and leading to the Marsi, and to

Corfiniuui, the metropolis of the I'eligni (Strab. v.

p. 238). The expressions of the geographer would

naturally lead us to conclude that the Via Valeria

was iu his tune carried as a regular highway as far

as Corfinium; but we learn from an inscription, that

this was not the case, and that the regularly con­

structed ruad stopped short at Cerfenuia, at the foot

of the Mons Imeus or Forca di Ctirwo, a steep and

difficult pass, over which the highway whs not carried

till the reign of Claudius, who at tbe same time con­

tinued it to the month of the Atenius. (Urell. Inter.

711.) It appears that the portion thus added at

first bore the name of the Via Claudia Valeria {Inter.

i.e.); but tbe distinction was soon lost sight of,and

the whole line of route from Rome to the Adriatio

was commonly known as the Via Valeria, (/tin.

Ant. p. 308.) It will be convenient here to adopt

the same usage, and consider the whole course of the

road under one head.

Tho Via Tiburtina, as the road from Rome to

Tibur was properly called, must undoubtedly have

been of very ancient origin. There must indeed

have existed from the earliest ages of Rome a fre­

quented highway or communication between the two

cities; but we are wholly ignorant as to the time

when a regularly made road, with its solU pavement

and all the other accessories of a Roman via. was con­

structed from tbe one city to tbe other. Tbe road aa

it existed in the time of the Roman Empire may be

distinctly traced by portions still remaining of the

