MESOPOTAMIA. 333 MESPILA.

district of Western Asia, deriving its name from its

yreition between the two great rivers Euphrates and

Tigris. It was hounded on the N. by Armenia and

the S. branch of M. Taurus, on the E. by the

Tigris, on the W. by the Euphrates, and on the

S. bv the Median Wall, which separated it from

rUbylonin. (Strab. xvi. p. 746; Ptol. v. 18.

§ I.) Pliny apparently extends it on the southern

side as far as the Persian Gulf {v. 24. s. 21) : but,

like many other ancient provinces, its limits varied

much at different periods,—it being sometimes ex­

tended so as to comprehend Babylonia, at other times

sa a< lo take in parts of Syria.

Mesopotamia is noticed among the earliest re­

cords of the human race which we have in the

Bible. It is commonly known by three titles in

Holy Scripture: either Aram Naharaim (or

•■Syria of th8 Two Waters"), as in Gen. xxiv. 10;

or Papas Akam ("Syria of the Plain"), as in

Gea. xxxi. 18, xxxiii. 18, xxxv. 9; or Sedeh-

Abam, '• the field of Aram" {Hot. xii. 12), corre­

sponding with the "Campi Mesopotamiae" of

Ctnthis (iii. 2. § 3, iv 9. § 6). There are indeed

places where Akam Mahakadi appears to be used

m a more limited sense for the more northern por­

tion of it (DeuL xxiii. 4); while it is equally cer-

tiin that it was not supposed to comprehend only

the flat country of the plain; for Balaam, who is

*aid to have been a native of Aram Maharaim (Deut.  
xxiii. 4), is also in another place stated to have

been ** brought from Aram out of the mountains of

the East." (A'runA. xxiii. 7.) It is not certain

How soon in history this country acquired its Greek

title, which is, after all, only a modification of the

Honing of the original Hebrew word,—probably,

b-nrever, not till after Alexander's invasion of the

E»L (Cf. Arrian, vii. 7; Tacit Ann. vi. 37.)

The translators of the LXX. render the Hebrew

JKWtirnes MccowoTa^ia 2upicu. and sometimes

BroplT MxrowoTovxio. In the Bible we have men-

two of one ruler who is called a king of Mesopotamia,

Cittkim-Ruhathaim, to whom the children of Israel

»ere rabject for eight years. (Judg. iii. 8, 10.)

Tbr modem Arabic name Al-Jezireh (the island)

•Scribes its locality accurately; but the modern

pr*bte is much less extensive than the ancient.

The whole country (as known at least to the later

writers) appears to have borne much the same cha­

racter as Babylonia, and to have been rich in the

•ame products. It was throughout well wooded,

e*p:-rially in the neighbourhood of the principal

*:reim* ; aiwl some of the timber must have been  
of i Urge size, as Trajan built a fleet in the neigh-

b-artixi of Ni»ibis during the Parthian War

(Dim Cat*, lxviii. 26), and Sererus one in sub-

Mqorot times from the woods along the banks of

ll* Euphrates. (Dion Cass. lxxv. 9.) Its ex­

tensive plains afforded abundant pasturage for cattle

(Cart. v. 1. § 12; Amm. Marc. xxv. 8), and its

viler ud less frequented districts were the haunts

«f um Bon, the wild ass, and the gazelle. (Strab.

*ri. "47; Ammian. xviii. 7.) The same character  
>t psusses now; though, from the scantiness of the

p^alatiorj. and the careless rule of its Turkish

tumors, much that was formerly under culti­

vation has become a deserted wilderness. Among

it" natural products Strabo mentions especially

rajliiba, amomum, and a stone called gangitis or

f>pu« (perhaps a kind of anthracite coal). (Cf.

frW. aJ Nicandr. Thcr. 37; Plin. x. 3. s. 4;

Uacord. v. 146.)

Though Mesopotamia is for the most part a flat

country, the ancients reckoned some mountains

which were along its northern boundary, as be­

longing to this division of Asia, These were Mons

Masius (now Karja Baghlar), one of the southern

outlying spurs of the great range of the Taurus;

and M. Sikgaras (now Sinjar), which may be

considered as an extension to the S. of the M.

Masius. The latter is nearly isolated from the

main ranges on the N., and extends on the NE. to

the neighbourhood of the Tigris. The two most

important rivers of Mesopotamia are, as we have

stated, those which formed its W. and E. boundaries,

the Euphrates and Tigris; but besides these, there

are a number of smaller, but not wholly unimportant

streams, which traverse it as affluents of the former

rivers. These were the Chaboras (Khabtir) ; the

Saocoras, perhaps the same as that which Xcno-

phon calls Mascas (Anab. i. 5. § 4) ; the Hems or

Bilecha ; and the Mvodokius (Hermes.) Under

the Roman Empire, Mesopotamia was divided into

two parts, of which the western was called Osrhnene,

while the eastern continued to bear its ancient

name. It was conquered by Trajan in A. D. 115,

who took Singara and Nisibis, and formed the

three Roman provinces of Armenia, Mesopotamia,

and Assyria, of which Mesopotamia reached as far

as the Persian Gulf. (Dion Cass, lxviii. 22. 23;

Eutrop. viii. 3 ; Euseb. p. 165, ed. Scalig.; Malalas,

p. 274, ed. Bonn ) But even Trajan could not

retain his conquests (Dion Cass, lxviii. 29), and

they were given up by Hadrian of his own accord.

(Spartian,Z/aaV.5; Eutrop.viii.6.) Under M.Aure-

lius, Mesopotamia was again conquered by L. Verus,

as far as the Median Wall (S. Rufus, Brev. 14);

and the conquest was further secured by the found­

ation of the colonies of Carrhae on the Chaboras

and Singara, to which Septimius Severus added

those of Nisibis and Rhesaena. But this province

was a constant cause of war between the Persian

and Roman empires; and at length the greater part

of it was surrendered to the Persians by Jovian in

A. d. 363. After this time Mesopotamia contained

two tirapx'w. Osrhoene, bounded on the south by

the Chaboras, with the capital Edessa; and Meso­

potamia, extending as far south as Dura, and having

Amida as its capital. The province was governed

by a Praeses. (Marquardt, in Becker's Kornisch.

Alterth. vol. iii. pt. i. pp. 204, seq.)

The most important cities of this province were

Batnae or Bathsae; Carrhae; Circesh'm;

Nisibis or Antiocheia Mygdoniae; and Sin­

gara. [V]

ME'SPILA (MfWiAa, Xen. Anal. iii. 4. § 10),

an ancient deserted city of Assyria, noticed by

Xenophon on his retreat northwards from Babylonia.

He describes it as about 6 parasangs from Lurissat

on the same (or left) bank of the Tigris. He men­

tions that the town had been inhabited by the

Medes, and that its walls were of immense size, the

foundations being of polished Bhellv limestone, 50

feet in breadth and height; and the part above,

made of brick, being 100 feet high and 50 broad.

The circumference of the whole work he states to

have been 6 parasangs. He mentions, as a report,

that on the Medians being conquered by the Persians,

the queen, who was a Median, fled to this place;

and that, when subsequently the place was besieged

by the Persians, they would have been unable to

take it, had not Zeus aided them with his lightning.

I There can be little doubt that Mcspila is represented

