ROMA. 787 KOMA.

*)al eanfinnj what has been already said respect­  
ing tat (brum and its environs; except that the

wren M* Ytterihiu show that the bankers' shops

•we not confined to the N. side of the forum. What

!.v osasai was in the middle of the forum is not

bat it was perhaps a drain. The passage is,

r »»ne plans, probably corrupt, as appears from

ti* two obscure lines respecting the mariti Ditit,

t ^' wv-ond if which is inexplicable, though they pro­

bably contain sane allusion to the Sacellum Ditis

eirfc we hare mentioned as adjoining the temple of

Sxara. Mommsen, however (£ c p. 29"), would

mi "dite* damnosos marito," &c, taking these [

'Atei * to be the rich usurers who resorted to the

wi-ra and lent young men money for the purpose

t orroptiag city wives. But what has tended to

. doubts upon the whole passage is the mention

( the basilica, since, according to the testimony

I Cicero (Brut. IS), Plautus died in the very

■er of Catos censorship. Yet the basilica is

as alluded to in another passage of Plautus be-

•t ;ao«»d; so that we can hardly imagine but that

vswA have existed in his lifetime. If we could

lacs the basilica in Cato's aedileship instead of

.fneonbip, every difficulty would vanish; but

r act s view we can produce no authority.

il.Tr.mwo (/&. p. 301) has made an ingenious,

•i »! improbable attempt to show, that Plautus,

Woa a good poet, has mentioned all these

.t'j en the forum in the order in which they ac-

ifly existed; whence he draws a confirmation of

> view respecting the situation of the comitium.

o£ rart of the forum is mentioned first as being

> nest excellent. Then follows on the left

• Sacrum Clnarinae, the Basilica Porcia, and

-ra Ptscaicriurn. and the Forum Infimnm. Re-  
•3Cf by the middle he names the canalis, and

rrmit down the forum again on the right, or

tide. In the " malevoli supra lacum " the

rrilios is alluded to at the top of the Vicus

Then we have the Veteres Tabemae, the

nm of Castor, the Vicns Tuscus. and Velabrnm.

flasibVa Porcia was soon followed by others,

i Srxt in the order of time was the Basilica

Liu, banded in the censorship of M. Aemilius

am. and M. Fnlvius NobQior, B.C. 179. This

ska* post Arzentariaa Novas" (Liv. xl. 51), and

« 'before have been very close to the Basilica

Ex. Fra the two censors it was sometimes

■'■ Sct'uca Aexnilia et Fulvia, (Varr. L.L. vi.

k&a.) All the subsequent embellishments and

nuas appear, however, to have proceeded from

«-« Aemilis. M. Aemilius Lepidus, consul with

. utiz* in B- c "8, adorned it with bronze )

J waring the effigies of his ancestors. (Plin.

14) It appears to have l«en entirely re-

by I- AemiJras Panllus, when sedile, n. c.

7Ve mm to bare been the restoration alluded

r Cm (ad A't. iw. 16), from which passage

.— paaettaitaosi and teat are correct, for it

aaca locos dessperatns — it also appears that

!.' *m it the same time constructing another

rxiyaifiornt basilica. Hence a difficulty arises

rLr; the situation of the latter, which wo are

, v vive, since? only one Basilica Paulu is

ww& be ancient authors; and Plutarch (Com.

asi ipreasly that Paulina expended the large

,. rwtmy which he bad received from Caesar

'» ;b 'building on the forum, in place of the

„ Fabria, a new one which bore bis own

(C£ Aapian, B. C. ii. 26.) It it certain at

least that we must not assume with Becker (Jlandb.

p. 303) that the latter was but a poor affair in compa­

rison with the new one because it was built with the

ancient columns. It is plain that in the words

"nihil gratius illo monuinento, nihil gloriosins,"

Cicero Is alluding to the restoration of the ancient

basilica, since he goes on to mention it as one which

used to be extolled by Atticus, which would not

have been possible of a new building; and the em­

ployment of the ancient columns only added to its

beauty. The building thus restored, however, was

not destined to stand long. It seems to have l>een

rebuilt less then twenty years afterward* by Panllus

Aemilius Lepidus (Dion Cass. xlix. 42); and in

about another twenty years this second restoration

was destroyed by a fire. It was again rebuilt in the

name of the same Puullus, but at the cxfiense of

Augustus and other friends (Id. liv. 24), and re­

ceived further embellishments in. the reign of Ti­

berius, A. D. 22. (Tac Am. iii. 72.) It was

in this last phase that Pliny saw it when he ad­

mired its magnificence and its columns of Phrygian

marble (xxxvi. 24).

basilica AF.Mn.IA. (From a Coin.)

The third building of this kind was the Basilica

SFMrRoNiA, erected by T. Sempronius Gracchus in

his censorship, ji.e. 169. For this purpose he pur­

chased the house of Scipio Africanus, together with

some adjoining butchers' shops, behind the Tabemae

Veteres, and near the statue of Vertumnus, which, as

we have said, stood near the forum at the end of the

Vicns Tuscus. (Liv. xliv. 16.) This, therefore, was

the first basilica erected on the S. side of the fomnj.

We hear no further mention of it, and therefore it

seems probable that it altogether disappeared, and

that its site between the Vicns Tuscus nnd Vicus

Jugarius was subsequently occupied in the imperial

times by the Basilica Julia.

The Lai'tcmiak, of which we have had occasion

to speak when treating of the Basilica Porcia, was

not merely the name of a district near the forum,

but also of a prison which appears to have been

constructed during the Republican period. The*

Lantumiae are first mentioned after the Second

Punic War, and it seems very probuble, as Varro

says (£. /,. v. § 151, M!ill.), that the name was

derived from the prison at Syracuse; though we

can hardly accept his second suggestion, that the

etymology is to be traced at Borne, as well as in

the Sicilian city, to the circumstance that stone

quarries formerly existed at the spot. The older

topographers, down to the time of Bunsen, assumed

that I.autumiae was only another appellation for

the Career Mamertinus, a misconception perhaps

occasioned by the abruptness with which Varro

(/. r.) passes from his account of the Tullianum to

that of the Lautumiae. We read of the latter as a

place for the custody of hostages and prisoners of

war in Livy (xxxii. 26, xxxvii. 3); a purpose to

which neither the size nor the dungeon-like coo,

3 E 2

