RHAPTUM.

RHEGIUM. 703

From Rhapta they exported ivory

An* to that of Adulis), tortoise-shell (the next

rt a qoality to that of India), rhinoceros-horn,

i usplrus (a shell probably used in dyeing).

mm oromrrcial feat area are nearly repeated at

i (n*rat day in this region. The African still

iW and mans the ship; the Arab is the navigator

d nprrrargo. The ivory is still of inferior qna-

t.Wmc for the most part found in the woods,

aaeni by rain, or collected from animals drowned

nt nerftow of the rivers at the equinoxes. The

n>edl tank is still captured in the neighbour-

id* the river Gocind, and on the shore opposite

1 ind ef Palo. (See Vincent, Voyage of

*-am*. vol iL pp. 169—183; Cooler, Claudius  
m~f md tie A*«V, pp. 69—72.) £\V. B. D.]

UUf'TrM PROMONTORIUM. [Rhaita.J

IflArTCS FLUVIUS. [Rhakta.J

6UI.V>TIA ('Piwrria), a town in the country of

1 Trams in Gal at i a, in Asia Minor, which is

mi mW by Ptolemy (t. 4. § 9). [L. S.]

EATOSTATHYBIUS ('PoToffTo^/ffior, Ptol. ii.

}VK a river an the W. coast of Britannia Romans,

nda* m Camden (p. 733) the Taf. [T.H.D.]

ftAPCUS CFnwwi, Scyl. p. 19; Polyb. xxxi.

11. xz&nL 15. § 1: Elk. 'Pawnor, fem. 'Pai/ftia,

Wl R. jl r.l From the story told about the

a* ijrm by Anterior in his "Cretica" (ap.Aelian.

i mi 35. enmp. Diodor. v. 70), it seems that

imi t»o cities of this name in Crete. The

van • f two places so called in the island might

saw v am Mich legend as that which he men-

Bttntrlrr (Crete, enl. i. p. 235) firw the site

Baanmarna at lirighio Mgro, between Cnnsstis

Satjus. and frotn its proximity to Mt. Ida

ithai it at the more ancient, [E. B. J.]

COW or RlIAL'Ct'S.

CP^eTat). a very small river on the

the length of which amounts only

it flow* into the Kuxine. near the

f Bosporus, north-ea»t of Cbalcrdon,

the name of Hiva. (Scylax. p. 34;

7*4: PtoA. v. i. § 5; Am'an, Pcripl

s> M. Marcian, p. 69; Plin. vi. 1; Steph. B.

Ttus liitie rin-r, which is otherwise of no

avana, earns its celebrity to the story of the

Mats. (OrpsV Arg. 7*11; Apollun. Rhod. ii.

79%) It ale* bore the names of Khesaeus

th-MS ([fio. L c.\ Soiio. 43\ the last of

aaeava to have arisen from a confusion with

assat nntinofd by Homer. [L. S.]

i >>xns. [BwKxnan]

LUIl*V ('Pwryw: A'lA.'Piryu'or, Rheginus:

tp am awpertant city of Macua Graecia, situ-

aw tkm southern end of the Bruttian peninsula,

i i- side of the Sicilian straits, and almost

f i f—He in Messana iu Sicily. The distance

a tara two cities, in a direct line, is only about

, avis*, and the distance from Khegium to the

nearest point of the island is somewhat less. There

is no doubt that it was a Greek colony, and we have

no account of any settlement previously existing on

the site; but the spot is said to have been marked

by the tomb of Joeastus, one of the sons of Aeolus.

(Heraclid. PoliL 25.) The foundation of Rhegium

is universally ascribed to the Chak-idians, who had,

in a year of famine, consecrated a tenth part of their

citizens to Apollo; and these, under the direction of

the oracle at Delphi, proceeded to Rhegium, whither

they were also invited by their Chalcidic brethren,

who were already established at Zancle on the oppo­

site side of the strait (Strab. vi. p. 257; Heraclid.

lc\ Diod. xiv. 40; Thuc vi. 4; Scymn. Ch.311.)

With these Chalcidians were also united a body of

Mes.senian exiles, who had been driven from their

country at the beginning of the First Messcnian

War, and had established themselves for a time at

Macistus. They were apparently not numerous, as

Rbegium always continued to be considered a Chal­

cidic city; but they comprised many of the chief

families in the new colony; so that, according to

Strabo, the presiding magistrates of the city were

always taken from among these Messenian citizens,

down to the time of Anaxilas, who himself l>elonged

to this dominant caste. (Strab. vi. p. 257; Paus. iv.

23. § 6; Thuc. vi. 4; Heraclid. /. c. 1.) The date

of the foundation of Rhegium is uncertain; the state­

ments just mentioned, which connect it with the

First Messenian War would carry it back as far as

the 8th century n.c; but they leave the precise

period uncertain. Paosanias considers it as founded

after the end of the war, while Antiochus, who is

cited fcy Strabo, seems to refer it to the beginning;

but his expressions are not decisive, as we do not

know how long the exiles may have remained at

Macistus; and it is probable, on the whole, that we

may consider it as taking place shortly after the

close of the war, and therefore before 720 b. c.

(Paus. /. c.; Antioch. ap. Strab. I. c). In this case

it was probably the most ancient of all the Greek

colonies in this part of Italy. Various etymologies

of the name of Rhegium arc given by ancient authors;

the one generally received, and adopted by Aeschylus

{ap. Strab. I. c), was that which derived it from the

bursting asunder of the coasts of Sicily and Italy,

which was generally ascribed to an earthquake.

(Diod. iv. 85; Justin, iv. 1, Ac.) Others absurdly

connected it with the Latin rtgimm (Strab. f. c),

while Heraclides gives a totally dihVrcnt story, which

derived the name from that of an indigenous hero.

(Heraclid. Mt 25.)

There seems no doubt that Rhegium rose rapidly

to be a flourishing and prosperous city; but we know

almost nothing of its history previous to the time of

Anaxilas. The constitution, as we learn from He­

raclides, was aristocratic, the management of affairs

resting wholly with a council or body of 1000 of the

principal and wealthiest citizens. After the legis­

lation of Chan ndas at Catana, his laws were adopted

by the Rhegians as well as by the other Chalcidic

cities of Sicily. (Heraclid. Lc; Arist. Pol. ii. 12,

v. 12.) The Rhegians arc mentioned as affording

shelter to the fugitive Phocaeans, who had been

driven from Corsica, previous to the foundation of

Velia. (Herod, i. 1G6, 167.) According to Strabo

they extended their dominion over many of the

adjoining towns, but these could only have been

small places, as we do not hear of any colonies of

importance founded by the Rhegians; and their ter­

ritory extended only as far as the Hslex on the V.,

