14 IDUMAEA. IDIMIUM.

scribed by Mnriti ( Viaggi, vol. i. p. 204). situated

to the south of Leucuoia, at the foot of Mmitit

Olytnpna. [E.B. J.]

IDIMIUM, a town in Lower Pannonia, on the east

of Sinnium, according to the Peut. Tab.; in the l.'a-

venna Geographer (iv. 19) it is called ldoininium.

Its site must be looked for in the neighbourhood of

Afunricza. [L S.]

I DIM IS, a town of uncertain site in Upper Moesia,

probably on ihe Morawa in Serria. (It. Ant. 134;

Tab. Pent.) [L. S.]

IDISTAVISUS CAMPUS, the famoua battle­

field where Gcnnanicus, in a. d. 16, defeated Ar-

ininius. The name is mentioned only by Tacitus

(Ann. ii. 16), who describes it as a "campus me­

dio* inter Visurgim et colles," and further says of it,

that" ut ripae fluminis codunt aut prominentia mon-

timn resistunt, inaequallter sinuatur. Pone tergum

insurgebat silva, editis in altum ramis ct pura humo

inter arborum truncos." This plain between the

river H'ejrr and the hills has been the subject of

much discussion among the modem historians of

Germany, and various places have been at different

times pointed out as answering the description of

Tacitus' Idiatavisus. It was formerly believed that

it was tlto plain near Vegtmck, below Bremen;

more recent writers are pretty unanimous in believ­

ing that Germanicus went up the river Wrser to a

point beyond the modern town of Minden, and

crossed it in the neighborhood of Haiuberge,

whence the battle probably took place between Haut-

berge and Kinleln, not far from the Porta Vestpbalica.

(Ledebur, Land u. Volk der Bructerer, p. 288.)

As to the name of the place, it used to be believed

that it had arisen out of a Koman asking a German

what the place was, and the German answering," It

is a wiese" (it is a meadow); but Grimm (Deutsche

ilgthoL p. 372. 2nd edit) has shown that the plain

was prohably called Iditiarito, that is," the maiden's

meadow" (Innn idui, a maiden). [L. S.]

IDO'MI.SK ('llouim, Ptol. iii. 13. § 39 ; ldo-

menia, I'ml. Tab.), a town of Macedonia which the

Tabular Itinerary places at 12 M. P. from Siena,

the pass now called Demirknjn. or Iron Gate, on the

river Vardhdri. Sitalces, on his route from Thrace

to Macedonia, crossed Mt. Cercine, leaving the Pae-

ones on his right, and the Sinli ami Maedi on his

left, and descended upon the Axius at Idomene.

(Time. ii. 98.) It probably stood upon the right

hank of the Axius, as it is included by Ptolemy

(L c.) in Emathia, and was near Doberos, next to

which it is named by Hierocles among the towns of

Consular Macedonia, under the Byuntino empire.

(I.eakn. .YorfA. Greece, vol. iii. p. 444.) [E. B. J.]

IDO'MENK. [Arocw Ampiiiux-iiicum.]

1D11AK ('Ujku, PtoL iii. 3. § 23), a people of

Snnnatia Kuropaea, whose position cannot be made

out from tl« indications given by Ptolemy. (Selia-

farik. Sine. Alt. vol. i. p. 213.) [K. B. J.]

I'DKIAS (Tfyidt), according to Stcphanus B.

(«. r.), a town in Caria which had (• «-merly borne

the name of Chrysaoris. Herodotus (v. 118) de­

scribes I he river Marsyas as flowing from a district

called Idriaa ; and it is conjectured that Stratoniceia,

founded by Antiochus S>tor, was built on the site of

the ancient town of Idriaa. (Coinp. Leake, Alia

Minor, p. 23S ; see Laodicma.) [L. S.]

lDU'BEDA ('liavttba, misspelt by Agalhemerus

'IrSovfoAoa, ii. 9: Sierra dt Oca and Sierra de

lj*r*Hiu), a great mountain chain of IIi>pania,

running ia a SK, direction from the mountains of

the Cantabri to the Mediterranean, almost parallel

to the Kltro, the basin of which it borders on the

W. St ratio makes it also parallel to the Pyreneca,

in conformity with his view of the direction of that

chain from X. to S. (Strab. iii. p. 161; Ptol. ii. 6.

§21.) Its chief offsets were: — M. Cainls, near

Bilbilis (Martial, i. 49, iv. 55), the Sai/TL's Mas-

uakl'9 (Liv. xl. 39: probably the Sterro Molina\

and, above all, M. OitosPKlfrA, which strikes off from

it to the S. long before it reaches the sea, and which

ought perhaps rather to be regarded as its principal

prolongation than as a mere branch. [P. S. J

IDUMAEA ('ISuv/iaTa), the name of the country

inhabited by the descendants of Edom (or Esau),

being, in fact, only the classical form of that ancient

Semitic name. (Joseph. Ant ii. 1. § I.) It is other­

wise called Mount Seir. (Gen. xxxii. 3, xxxvi. 8;

l)eut ii. 5; Jath.ua, xxiv. 4.) It lay between

Mount Horeb and the southern border of Canaan

(fieut. i. 2), extending apparently as far south as

the Gulf of A kola (l)eut. ii. 2—8), as indeed ita

ports, Ezion-geber, and Elnth, are expressly asaigned

to the " land of Edom." (2 Cliron. viii. 17.) This

country was inhabited in still more ancient times by

the Horims (Deut. ii. 12, 22), and derived its more

ancient nanio from their patriarch Seir (Gen. xxxvi.

20; comp. xiv. 6), as is properly maintained by

Iteland, against the fanciful conjecture of Joseph us

and others. (Palaeitina, pp. 68, 69.) The Jewish

historian extends the name Idumaea so far to the

north as to comprehend under it great part of the

south of Judaea; as when he says that the tribe of

Simeon received as their inheritance that part of

Idumaea which borders on Egypt and Arabia. (Ant.

v. 1. § 22) He elsewhere calls Hebron the first city of

Idumaea, i.e. reckoning from the north. (B.J. iv. 9.

§ 7.) From his time the name Idumaea disappears

from geographical descriptions, except as an hie*

torical appellation of the country that was then called

Gehalenc, or the southern desert (h Kara utayp-

fpiav iprjuot, Euseb. Onom. «. t>. Ai'AdV), or Arabia.

The historical records of the Idumaeans, properly so

called, are very scanty. Saul made war upon them;

David subdued the whole country; and Solomon

made Elion-geber a naval station. (1 Sam. xir. 47,

2 Sum. viii. 14; 1 Kingi, xi. 15, ix. 26.) The

Kdumites, however, recovered their national inde­

pendence under Joram, king of Judah (2 Kittgt,

xiv. 7), and avenged themselves on the Jews in

the cruelties which they practised at the capture

of Jerusalem by Nebuchadnezzar. (Psalm*, cxxxvil.

7.) It was probably during the Babylonish cap­

tivity that they extended themselves as far north

as Hebron, where they were attacked and subdued

by Judas Maccabaeus. (1 Maccab. v. 65—68;

Joseph. Ant. xii. 8. § 6.) It was on this account

that the whole of the south of Palestine, about

Hebron, Gaza, and Eleutheropolis (Beit Jebrin),

came to be designated Idumaea. (Joseph. B. J.

iv. 9. § 7, c. Apian, ii. 9; S. Jerom. Comment, in

Obad. ver. 1.) Meanwhile, the ancient seats of the

children of Edom had been invaded and occupied by

another tribe, the Xabatliarans, the descendant* of

the Ishmaelite patriarch Nebaioth [Nabathau],

under which name the country and its capital

[Pktba] became famous among Greek and IEotnan

geographers and historian*, on which acconnt their

description of the district u more appropriately given

under that head. St. Jerome's brief but accurate

notice of its general features may here suffice: —

"Omnia Australia regio ldumaeorum de Eleutbero­

