54 IXGEXA. INTELEXE.

Strabo and Pliny; but we have no means of fixing

tht extent or limits of their territory, which evi­

dently comprised a considerable portion of the sea-

coast on each side of their capital city, and probably

extruded uii the YY. till it met tliat of the Intcmchi.

It must hare included several minor towns, but

their capital, of which the name is variously written

Albium Ingaunum and Albingaunum, is the only

town expressly assigned to them by ancient writers.

[Ai.HitM Inuacklm.J (Strab. iv. p. 202 ; 1'lin.

iii. 5. *. 6.) [E. H. B.]

I'NGENA. [Abhiscatui.]

INI'CKKUM, a town in Lower Pannonia, in the

neighbourhood of which there was a praetorium. or

place of rest for the emperors when they travelled in

throe part*, (/fin. Ant pp. 260, 265.) Some iden­

tify it with the modern J'ossega. [L. S.]

INOTUS. [Delos.]

IXSA'Xl MONTHS (to Matviueva 6>n, Ptol.

iiL 3. § 7), a range of mountains in Sardinia, men­

tioned by Livy (xxx. 39) in a manner which seems

to imply that they were in the NK. j«irt of the

island; and this is confirmed by Claudian, who

(■.peaks of them as rendering the iiurthern part of

Sardinia rugged and ravage, a:id the adjoining mm.-,

stormy and dangerous to navigators. (Claudian,

B. GUd. 513.) Hence, it is evident that the name

watt applied to the lofty and rugged rang'* of moun­

tains in the N. and NE. part of the Uland: and

was, doubtless, given to them by Houian navigators,

on account of the sudden and frequent storms to

which they gave rise. (Liv. /, c). Ptolemy also

places the MairoVcfa W>tj — a name which is obvi­

ously translated from the Ijitin one — in the interior

of the island, aud though he would teem to consider

them as nearer the \V. than the K. coast, the position

which lie assigns them may still be referred to tho

same range or mass of mountains, which extends

from the neighbourhood of Olbia (Terra Sora) on

the K. coast, to that of Cornus on the YV. [Sar-

inxtA.] [E.H.U.]

I'NSUBRES, a people both in Gallia Transalpina

and Gallia Ci»alpinx IVAnville, on the authority of

Livy (v. 34), plates the Insubres of Gallia Trans­

alpina in that part of the territorj of the Aedui

where there was a town Mediolaoum, between Forum

Segusiannrum [Fiuti'M Skoi'hianorum] and Lug-

dunum (Lyon). Thus is the only ground that there

is for supposing that there exited a j«onp!e or a

pugus in Gallia Transalpina named Insubres. Of

the Insubrca in Gallia Cisalpina, an account is given

el.-ewhere [Vol. I. p. 936]. [G. L.]

INSULA, or l'NSULA ALLO'BROGUM.in Gallia

XarbtinethU. Livy (xxi. 31), after describing Han­

nibal's jiusisage lit' tin* Khone, says that he directed

his march on the east side towards the inland parts

of Gallia. At his fourth encampment be came to

the Insula, "where the rivers Arar and the Kho-

danus, bowing down from the Alps by two different

directions, comprise between them some tract of

country, and then unite: it is the level country be­

tween them which is called the Insula. The AJlo-

broges dwell uear.' One might easily see that there

must be some error in the word Arar; for Hannibal

could not have reached the latitude of Lngdonum

(Ayon) in four days from the place where he cmssed

the Khone; and this Is certain, though we do not

know the exact place where he did cross the Khone.

Nor, if he had got to the jit net tun of the Arar and

Ithodanus, could Livy say that he reached a place

near which the Allobrogea dwell; for, if he had

marched from the Isara (hire) to the junction of

the Saune and Khone, he would have passed through

the country of the" Allobroges. [At.utnRooB>.J

Nor does the Arar (Oaone) flow from the Alp*,

though the Isara docs. Besides this, if Hannibal

had gone so far north as the part between the Sa>me

and Klione, he would have gone much further north

than was necessary for his purpose, as Livy describe*

it. It is therefore certain, if we look to the context

only, that we must read "Isara" for " Arar;"' and

there is a reading of one MS., cited by Gronoviua,

which shows that Isara may have once been in the

text, and that it has been corrupted. (Walckenaer,

Geoff. <fc. vol. i. p. 135.) Livy in this pa»aage

copied Poly bin*, in whoso MSS. (iii. 49) the name

of the river is Scoras or Scaras; a name which the

editors ought to have kept, instead of changing it

into I^aras ('ladpcu), as Bekker and others before

him have done, though the Lara or Isere is cer­

tainly the river. In the latest editions of Ptolemy

(ii. 10. § 6) the Isara appears in the farm I?*r

("loop); but it is certain that there are great varia­

tions in the MSS. of Ptolemy, and in the editions.

Walckenaer (vol. i. p. 134) says that the edition <>f

Ulm of 1482 has Siearns, aud that there is "Si-

caros" in the Strassburg editions of 1513, 152u.

1522. The editio princeps of 1475 has "Cisur;"

and others have " Tisar w and "Tisara." The pro­

bable conclusion Ls, that" Isc-ar " is one of tho fonii*

of the name, which is as genuine a Celtic form as

"Is-ar" or " Isara," the form in Cicero (ad Fan. x.

15, Ac). "Isc-ara" may be compared with tlie

British forms " Isaca" (the £xe), Is*a, and Ischsdis;

and Is-ara with the names of the Italian rivers Auaar

and Aesis.

1'olybius compares the country in the angle be­

tween the Rhone and the Isara (Ittit) to the IMia

of Egypt in extent and furm, except that in the Delta

the sea unites the one side and tho channels of tlie

streams which form the two other sides; but hers

mountains almost inaccessible form the third side of

this Insula. He describes it as populous, and a corn

country. The junction of the Isar, as Strabo calls

the river (p. 185), and the Khone, wis, according to

him,opposite the place where the CVrennea approach.

near to the banks of the Rhone.

The /acre, one of the chief branches of the Rhone,

rises in the high Pennine Alps, and flows through

the valleys of the Alpine region by a very winding

course past St. Maurice, Moutiers, Conjfaru, J/oni-

metttan, where it begins to be navigable, Grtiuibie,

the Roman Cularo or Gratianopolis, and joins the

Ithonc a few miles north of Valencia ( Valence). Its

whole course is estimated at about 160 miles. Han­

nibal, after staying a short time in the country about

the junction of the Khone and the /*rre, cxKiiinerxcJ,

his march over the Alps. It is not material to de­

cide whether his whole army crossed over into the

Insula or not, or whether he did himself, though

the words of Poljbius imply that he did. It b

certain that he marched up the valley of the /avrs

towards the Alps; and the way to find out where he

crossed the Alps is by following the valley of the

Isere, [G. L.1

INSURA. [Mtlae.]

INTKLE'NE ('iKnjAnrff), one of the five pro­

vinces W. of the Tigris, ceded, in a, tx 297, by

Naraes to Galeriu* and the K*imana, (Prtr. l*atr.

Fr. 14, Fratjm. Wit. Oraee. ed. Mil Her; <nM* -n,

c. xiii.) St. Martin, in his note to Le Beau (/&i#

Kmpire, vol. L p. 380), would read fur Inirlcor,

