S1TACE. 1015 SITONES.

M pp. 239, 260, 265, 266, 272, 274; Plin.

.) According to Pliny tbe Dame Segestica

«1 only to the island, and the town was called

while Strabo (vii. p. 314) says that Siscia

fort in tbe neighbourhood of Segeetica; but if

■ », it must be supposed that subsequently

it and town became united as one place.

. Strab. it. p. 202, v. p. 214, vii. p. 218;

i, ffijr. 16, 23. &c.) Siscia was from tbe

-troogly fortified town; and after its capture  
•nu&,in tbe reign of Augustus (Appian, Dion

1 ec; Veil. Pat. ii. 113), it became one of the

p>ruiit places of Pannouia; for being situ-

two navigable rivers, it not only carried on

able commerce (Strab. v. pp. 207, 214), but

the central point from which Augustus and

i carried on their undertakings against the

us and Illy ruins. Tiberius did much to

mid embellish tbe town, which as early as

m seems to have been made a colonia, for

enuons it as such: in the time of Septimius

it received fresh colonists, whence in in-

■ it is called Col. Septimia Siscia. The

rtaioad an imperial mint, and the treasury

t was at a later time called the province

it the same time it was tbe station of the

kept so the Savus. Siscia maintained

nance until Sinnium began to rise, for in

n as Stnnium rose, Siscia sank and declined,

loam. ii. 48; Orelli, Itucript. n. 504, 505,

074, 3346, 4993.) The modern town of

ccapying tbe place of the ancient Siscia,

many interesting remains of antiquity.

. Iiamlmu, p. 47; Schonwisner, Antiq.

; p. 52, folk; Mochar, Norilmm, i. p.

[L. S.]

CE (Zrrdrn), a large town, first noticed by

a (Altai, ii. 4. § 13), situated about 8

Si from the Median Wall, and 15 from the

nd tbe month of the Physcus. The exact

w determined, but several

in this neighbourhood, ex-

which may perhaps belong

itf. (Mannert, v. pt. ii. p. 281; Niebuhr,

3; Ives, TravU, <fc p. 133.) [V.]

CVS (SrraitOT, A man, fnd. c. 38), a river

to which Nearchus came in his celebrated

royage. It is in all probability the same as

•i by Pliny Sitiogagus (vi. 23. s. 26);

his statement that, from its month, an

aid be made to Pasargada in 7 days, is

f erroneous. There is no reason to doubt

it present represented by a stream called

nam. (Vincent, Koy. of Nearclmt, i. p.

Vaville, Mem. de CAcad. xxx. p. 158;

ikmde. vii. p. 763.) [V.]

iTflA(3i*jH«, Herod, vii. 123; Steph.

fiml. x. 66; Hor. Carm. i. 18. 9:

tie central of the three prongs which run

lie Aegean from the great peninsula of

. forming a prolongation to the peak

wi or KhoUtmon. The Sithonian penin-

, tboagh not so hilly as that of Acte, is

rug as Pallene, was the first, it appears,

ttd by the Chalcidic colonists. A list of

given in Ciiaixidick. [E. B. J.]

a place in Hispania Baetica. (Plin. iii.

[T. 11. D.]

1 • • Ptol. iv. 2. § 34), a town in

of Mauretarua Caesariensis, situated in

• plain Dot far from the borders of

Nuirudia, and on the road from Carthage to Cirtu.

(I tin. Ant. pp.24, 29, 31, &c.; comp. Alum. Maiv.

xxviii. 6.) At first, uuder the Nuuiidian kings, it

was but an unimportant place: but uuder the Konmn

dominion it became the frontier town of the new

province of Numidio, was greatly enlarged and ele­

vated to be a colony; so that on the subsequent

division of Mauretania Caesar, into two smaller pro­

vinces it became the capital of Mauretania Sitifeusis.

Under the dominion of tbe Vandals, it was the

capital of the district Zabe. (ZdCn, Procop. B.

Vand. ii. 20.) It is still called Setifxai lies upon

an eminence in a delightful neighbourhood. Seine

ruins of the ancient town are still to be seen.

(Shaw's Travels, p. 49.) [T. H. D.]

SI 111.1.1 A, in Gallia, is placed by the Table on a

road from Aquae Bormonis (Bourbon IA rcliambauh)

to Pocrinium, supposed to be Perrigni. Sitillia is

xvi. from Aquae Bonnonis and xiiii. from Pocrinium

Sitillia is probably a place rawed TieL (D'Anville

Notice, #c.) [G. L.]

SITIOGAGUS. [Sitacls.]

S1T0MAGUS, a town of the Iceni or Simeni, in

the E. part of Britannia Komana. (Itin. Ant. p. 480.)

Camden (p. 456) identifies it with Thetford'm Nor­

folk, whilst others seek it at Stowmarket, SoutlucolJ,

and Saxmundliam. In the Tab. Pent it is errone­

ously written u Sinomachus." [T. H. D.]

SITONES, a population conterminous with the

Suiones, from whom they differ only in being governed

by a female: "in tanlum non modo a libertate scd

etiam a scrvitute degenerant. Hie Sueviae finis.''

(Tac. Germ. 45.) The Sitonian locality is some part

of Finland; probably the northern half of the coast

of the Gulf of Bothnia.

The statement that they were under a female nil

is explained as follows. The name by which the

East Botbnian Finlanders designate themselves is

Aatnu-laiset (in the singular Aotnu-lainen). The

Swedes call them Qraene (A'woms). The mediaeval

name for tbeir country is Cajan-iiL. Now qvinna in

the Norse language ~ woman, being our words

queen and quean I and in the same Norse tongiu;

the land of tbe Qcacns would be Cvena-land; as it

actually is, being Cwaen-hnd (Queen-land) iuAu^lo-

Saxon. Hence the statement of Tacitus arises uut

of information concerning a certaiu Ctraen-land,

erroneously considered to be a terra feminarum, in­

stead of a terra Quaenorum. The reader who thinks

this fanciful should be informed tbat in Adam of

Bremen, writing in the 12th century, when the same

country conies under notice, the same contusion

appears, and that in a stronger form. The Sitonian

country is actually ferra feminarum. More than

this, the feminae become Amazon*: "circa hatr

litora Ballici maris ferunt ease Amazonat, quod

nunc terra feminarum dicitur, quaa aquae gustu

aliqui dicunt concipere Hae simul viventes,

spernunc consortia virorum, quos etiam, si adveuerint,

a se viriliter repellunt," c. 228. (Zeuss, lti»

Deutschen, tfv., 9. v. Kieenen.)

It is worth noticing that King Alfred's locality

of the dcenat is, in respect to their relations to the

Sciat, exactly that of Tacitus,— Cwwi-land succeed­

ing 5eea-land.

The Sitones seem to have been the ancient repre­

sentatives of the Finns of Finlaud,— tlic Feniii of

the ancients being the Laps. This is not only what

the words Sitones and QfoM suggest, but the infer­

ence from the word F'enni also. To the Finlaiider,

Fin is a strange name. The Swede calls him (fcutn,­

3 T 4

