112 LACONIA. LACONIA.

given by Lycnrgus, and that .1000 were added by

king Polydorus at the end of the First Me-sscniaii

War; others supposed that the original number of

4500 was doubled by Polydorus. (l'lut. L c.) From

these statements attempts have been made by modern

writers to calculate the population of Laconia, and

the relative numbers of the Syrians and the Perioeci;

but Mr. Grote has brought forward strong reasons

for believing thai no such division of the landed

property of Laconia was ever made by Lycurgua,

and that the belief of his having done so arose in the

third century before the Christian era, when Agis

attempted to make a fresh division of the land of

I.aconia. (Grote, Ilitt. of Greece, vol. ii. p. 521.)

In any case, it is impossible to determine, as some

writers have attempted, the lands which belonged

respectively to the Spartans and the Perioeci. All

that we know is, that, in the law proposed by Agis,

the land bound by the four limits of Pellene, Sellasia,

Malca, and Taygetus, was divided into 4500 lots,

one for each Sprtan; and that the remainder of

Laconia was divided into 15,000 lots, one for each

Perioecus (Plut. Ag'u, 8.)

With respect to the population of Laconia, we

have a few isolated statements in the ancient waters.

Of these the most important is that of Herodotus,

who says that the citizens of Sparta at the time of

the Persian wars was about 8000 (vii. 234). The

number of the Perioeci is nowhere stated; but we

kuow from Herodotus that there were 10,000 of

them present at the battle of Plataea, 5000 heavy-

armed, and 5000 light-armed (ix. 11, 29); and, as

there were 5000 Spartans at this buttle, that is five-

eighths of the whole number of citizens, we may

venture to assume as an approximate number, that

the Perioeci at the battle may have been also five-

eighths of their whole number, which would give

16.000 for the males of full age. After the time of

the Persian wars the number of the Spartan citizens

gradually but steadily declined; and Clinton is pro­

bably right in bis supposition that at the time of

the invasion of Laconia, in B. c. 3G9, the total num­

ber of Spartans did not exceed 2000; and tliat

Isocrates, in describing the original Dorian con­

querors of Laconia as only 2000, has probably

adapted to the description the number of Spartan* in

his own time. (Isocr. Pmath. p. 286, c.) About

50 years after that event, in the time of Aristotle,

they were scarcely 1000 (Aristot. Pol ii. 6. § 11);

and eighty years still later, in the reign of Agis,

B. c. 244, their number was reduced to only 700

(Plut. Agu, 5.) The number of Helots was very

large. At the battle of Plataea there were 35.000

lfclit-arnied Helots, that is seven for every single

S|«rtan (Herod, ix. 28.) On the population of

Laconia, see Clinton, F. II. vol. ii. p. 407, mi).

From B. c. 547 to b. c. 371, the boundaries of

Laconia continued to be the same as we have men­

tioned above. But after the overthrow of her supre­

macy by the fatal battle of Leuctra, the Spartans

were successively stripped of the dominions they had

acquired at the expense of the Messenians, Arca­

dians, and Argires. Epaminondas, by establishing

the independent state of Mcs&enia. confined the

Spartans to the country east of Mount Taygetus;

and the Arcadian city of Megalopolis, which was

founded by the same statesman, encroached npon

the Spartan territory in the upper vale of the

Kurutas. While the Thebans were engaged in the

Sacred War, the Spartans endeavoured to recover

aotne of their territory whkb they had thus lost;

but it was still further circumscribed by Philip, the

father of Alexander the Great, who deprived the

Spartans of several districts, which be auigrwd to

the Argives, Arcadians, and Messenians. (Polyb.

ix. 28; Pans. iv. 28. § 2.) After the estabuJi-

ment of the Achaean League their influence in

the Peloponnesus sank lower and lower. For s

short time they showed unwonted vigour, uodif

their king Cleotnencs, whose resolution bad given

new life to the state. They defeated the Aehaean.

in several battles, and seemed to be regaining

a portion at least of their former power, whto

they were checked in their progress by Antigoaus

Doson, whom the Achaeans called in to their assist­

ance, and were at length completely humbled by thr

fatal battle of Sellasia, B. c. 221. (Diet, of Biogr.

art. CUomena.) Soon afterwards Sparta fell into

the hands of a succession of usurpers; and of

these Nabis, one of the most sanguinary, was corn-

pelled by T. Quinctius Klamininus, to surrender Gy-

thiuin and the other maritime towns, which had

sided with the Romans, ami were now severed fnen

the Spartan dominion and placed under the protec­

tion of the Achaean League, n. c 195. (Strab. viii.

p. 306; Thirlwall, Ilul. of Greece, vol. viii. p. 326.)

Tho Spartans were thus confined almost to the

valley in which their Dorian ancestors bad fir»t

settled, and, like them, were surrounded by a number

of hostile places. Seven years afterwards, B. c. IP?,

Sparta itself was taken by Philopncmen, and annual

to the Achaean League (Plut. Phil. 16 j Liv. xxxviii.

32—34); but this step was displeasing to the

liomans, who viewed with apprehension the further

increase of the Achaean league, and accordingly en­

couraged the party at Sparta opposed to the interests

of the Achaeans. Hut the Iioman conquest of Greece,

which soon followed, put an end to these disputes,

and placed Laconia, together with the rest of Greece,

under the immediate government of Rome. Whether

the I,acedacmonian towns to which Fkunininus had

granted independence were placed again under tl*

dominion of Sparta, is not recorded; but we know

that Augustus guaranteed to them their indepen-

dence, and they are henceforth mentioned under the

name of Eleuthero-Lacones. Pausanias aays these

were originally 24 tonus of the Eleuthcru-Lacooei,

and in his time there were still 18, of which the

names were Gythium, Teuthrone, Las, Pyrrhkus,

Caenepolis, Oetylus, Leuctra, Thahunne, Alagunia.

Gerenia, Aaopus, Acriae, Ooeae, Zarax, Epidural

Limera, Braaiae, Geronthrae, Marios. (I'aus. id. 21.

§ 7.) Augustus showed favour to the Spartans as

well as to the Lacedaemonians in general; he gave

to Sparta the Messenian town of Cardamylc (I'sus.

iii. 26. § 7); he also annexed to Laconia the Mi»-

senian town of Pbarae (l'aus. iv. 30. § 3), and

gave to the Lacedaemonians the island of Cytherx.

(Dion Cass. liv. 7.)

At the end of the fourth century of the Christian

era, Laconia was devastated by the froths under

Alaric, who took Sparta (Zosim. r. 6). Subsequently

Slavonians settled in the country, and retained p>«-

session of it for a long time; but towards tlie end <d

the eighth century, in tlie reign of the em pre-*

Irene, the Byzantine court made an effort to recover

their dominions in Peloponnesus, and finally sur-

ceeded in reducing to subjection the Slavonians m

the plains, while those in Laconia who would not

submit were obliged to take refuge in the fa--lneaee*

of Mt. Taygetus. When the Franks became masters

of Laconia in the 13th century, they found upm

