SELINUS. SELLASIA. 959

M is consecrated to Aesculapius, as indicated

i UK rock which stands below it. The subject of

in IJpe evidently refers to a story related by

tqmm Laertios (viii. 2. § 11) that the Selinun-

[» were afflicted with a pestilence from the

anhr character of the landB adjoining the neigh-

wis^ river, but that this was cured by works of

ur»ie, suggested by Empedocles. The figure

uiaf on the coin is the river-god Selinus, which

i< :hos made conducive to the salubrity of the

[E. H. B.]

COIW OF SELISL'S

StLl'XUS (2«Au*o0s: Eth. 2t\ivovirrios or 2r-

w»j»os: Stlenti), a port-town on the wot coast of

wia, at the mouth of a small river of the same

»», wbkh is now called SeUnti (Scylax, p. 40;

.uxiii.20; Strab. xiv. p. 682; Ptol. v. 8. § 2, 1

. IT. § 42; Plin. t. 22.) This town is memorable

batny as the place where, in A. D. 117, the em- 1

•€ Trajan is said by some authors to have died \

00 Casalxviii. 33). After this event the place for j

we bore the name of Trajanopolis; but its bishops

rwards are called bishops of Selinus. (Hierocl. p. i

>) Basil of Seleucia {Vita S. Theclae, ii. 17)

nbet the place as reduced to a state of insig-

aoce in his time, though it had once been a great

owroal town. (Comp. Staduum. Mar. Mag. §§

1.204; Lucan, viii.260; CArwi./>ajcAafc,p.253.)

■ns was situated on a precipitous rock, sur-

'lal on almost every side by the sea, by which

tarn it was rendered almost impregnable. The

•• the rock, however, was not included in

■acient line of fortifications; inside the walls

• itill are many traces of houses, but on the

lit, and between the foot cf the hill and the

', tie remains of some large buildings are yet

use, which appear to be a mausoleum, an agora,

atir, an aqueduct, and some tombs (Beaufort,

ax»u,p. 186, foil.)

*pn ting the small river Selinus, flowing by  
imam, see Peboamum, p. 575. [L. S.]

tLLA'SIA (2cAAao-ia, Xen. Pohb. Diod.; 2«-

svSteps. B., Hesych. i. v.; the latter is perhaps

omrct form, and may come from o-cAor; the

1 U connected by Hesychius with Artemis

SI: Elk. 2eAAa<ri(i/{, 2*Aair«ci), a town of

ecj. situated in the valley of the Ocnus, on

nul leading from Tcgea and Argos, and one

■ bulwark* of Sparta against an invading

. Its distance from Sparta is nowhere men-

1; but from the description which Puljbii s

: the celebrated battle fought in its neigh-

wil between Antigonus and Cleomencs, it is

i*e that the plain of Krtvatd was the site

• bailie. We learn from Polybius that this

■ took place in a narrow opening of the vale of

Ohzus, between two hills named Evas and

ft, and that the river Gorgylus flowed across

pais into the Evenua. South of the Khan of

Krtvatd is a small plain, the only one in the valley

of the Ocnus, about ten minutes in width and a

quarter of an hour in length, at the end of which

the rocks again approach so close as barely to leave

room for the passage of the river. The mountain,

which bounds this plain on the east, is Olympus, a

continuation of the mountain of Vrtsthtna: it rises

very steep on the left bank of the Oenus. The

mountain on the western side is Evas, now Turlats,

which, though not so steep, is still inaccessible to

cavalry. Towards the north the plain is shut in by

a mountain, over which the road leads to Tegea,

and towards the south by a still higher mountain.

The Oenus, which flows near the eastern edge of

the plain, can be crossed at any point without diffi­

culty. It receives on its right side a small brook,

the Gorgylus, which descends from a ravine on the

northern side of Mt. Evas. On the summit of the

hill, more than 2800 feet above the sea, which shuts

in the plain on the south, and over which the road

leads to Sparta, are the ruins of Sellasia, described

below.

The battle of Sellasia, of which Polybius gives a

detailed account, requires a few words of explanation.

In B.C. 221, Cleomenes, the Spartan king, ex­

pecting that Antigonus, the Macedonian king, and

the Achaeans, would invade Laconia, fortified the

other passes which led into the country, and took

up his own position with the main body of his forces

in the plain of Sellasia, since the roads to Sparta

from Argos and Tegea united at this point. His

army amounted to 20,000 men, and consisted of

Lacedaemonians, Perioeci, allies, and mercenaries.

His left wing,containing the Perioeci and allies, was

stationed on Mt. Evas under the command of his

brother Eucleidas; his right wing, consisting of tho

Lacedaemonians and mercenaries, encamped upon

Mt. Olympus under his own command; while his

cavalry and a part of the mercenaries occupied the

small plain between the hills. The whole line was

protected by a ditch and a palisade. Antigonus

inarched into Laconia from Argos with an army of

30,000 men, but found Cleomenes so strongly in­

trenched in this position, that he did not venture to

attack him, but encamped behind the small stream

Gorgylus. At length, after several days' hesitation,

both sides determined to join battle. Antigonus

placed 5000 Macedonian pcltasts, with the greater

part of his auxiliary troops, on his right wing to

oppose Eucleidas; his cavalry with 1000 Achaeans

and the same number of Megalopolitans in the small

plain; while he himself with the Macedonian pha­

lanx and 3000 mercenaries occupied the left wing, in

order to attack Cleomenes and the Lacedaemonians

on Jit. Olympus. The battle began on the side of

Mt. Evas. Eucleidas committed the error of awaiting

the attack of the enemy upon the brow of the hill,

instead of availing himself of his superior position

to charge down upon them; but while they were

climbing the hill they were attacked upon the rear

by some light troops of Cleomenes, who were sta­

tioned in the centre with the Lacedaemonian cavalry.

At this critical moment, Philopoemen, who was in

the centre with the MegalopoliUn horse, diverted the

attack of the light infantry by charging without

orders the Lacedaemonian centre. The right wing

of the Macedonians then renewed their attack, de­

feated the left wing of the Lacedaemonians, and

drove them over the steep precipices on the opposite

side of Mt. Evas. Cleomenes, perceiving that the

only hope of retrieving the day was by the defeat

