PALAESTINA.

TALAESTINA. 521

tr'vamta.vrtetwetn them. In many places these

ti>& in like nlk. About this port of the Jordan

ut k*w piunmifcht be perhaps 1 j or 2 miles broad,

i^wfalloc the matt rank and luxuriant vegetation,

Lui joajle, tint in a few spots only can anything

ifjruch iti hanks. Below Beisan the higher ter-

m «o ouVr side begin to close in, and to narrow

is 6ri inn below; the hills become irregulur

u. islr partly cultivated; and by degrees the

»u*« liktr resumes its original form. The sug­

ar, aor* of the river is still prettily marked by

jfct cl rrttn foiiace an its banks, as it veers from

[:• (id. od mh tide to those on the other. This

fill cisrictcr of the river and of the Ghor is

■ ■Juno u lit Dead Sea, the mountains on either

»* -A tie upper valley approaching or receding,

m 4* rirer ninding in tie lower valley between

be* tji of joft limestone, in some places not less

ma 300 or 400 fret high, having many shallows

«u m Jarre (ilk The American expedition

juli to the iafi)nnation contained in the paper

4 vr esterpriaing countryman, who only survived

i» irjl« <nr month. Lieut. Lynch's report, how-

w*. tji ananru all Lieut. Molyneux's observa-

»c»: ird be TOiiu up the results of the survey in

itiSirng sentence:—" The great secret of the

asmnn betveen lake Tiberias and the Dead Sea

iuni ky ibe tortuous coarse of the Jordan. In

»•»■« of (0 miles of latitude and 4 or 5 miles

• k.^aJe. the Jordan traverses at least 200 miles.

.. Wt hive plunged down twenty-seven threaten-

• ^ah. besides a great many of lesser magni-

■».' (Lrnch. Narrative of ike United Statu'

bV-A. fa tie Jordan, <fe., p. 265.) It is satis-

s**7 aw to find that tie trigonometrical survey

»lis Am attached to the American expedition

•a*7* tie rendu arrived at by Lieut. Syinonds.

Theological Review for 1848, pp.

■ • 'hnvxt that these phaenomena have an im-

innn? co the historical notices of the river;

• a canons to observe (as Mr. Petermann has

))> :o examining the results of De Bcrtou,

'.and Von VVildenbruch, that the depression

bead Sea and of the lako of Tiberias in-

• 11 c 1 cbrunological order (with only one excep-

M. vuti mar perhaps indicate that a continual

* vxlz on in the level of the entire Ghor, espe-  
!" : .i veil proved that the whole Jordan valley,

a hkn, not only has been bnt still is sub-

ritxitc action; as Uussegger has remarked

> awinuins between Jerusalem and the

La tit valley uf the Jordan itself, and those

Dead Sea, bear unequivocal evidence of

'arwary, ssch as disruptions, upheaving,

**-&e^— pnots of which agency are still  
at b eaauritul earthquakes, hotsprings, and

of uphak.

'lae earliest historical facts connected with

a us periodical overflow during the season

(Jusk. iii. IS; 1 Chron, xii. 15,

L la. 5; see Blunts Undesigned Coin-

FP- 113. 1U); and allusion is made to this

'rap-jvity. (Eeclus. xxiv. 26; Aris-

■* ad PUkcratrm.) The river in the

Ht Jericho was raited by the writer at all

■w'lhsysar, bat he rjever witnessed an over,

■v vvrv Uie Bedouins who inhabit its banks

th» phaenomenon. The American

•eat <iimn the river in the month of

v»aj »we ,g Jericho at Kaster, yet they wit-

nessed nothing of the kind, though Lient. Lynch

remarks, "the river is in the latter stage of a

freshet; a few weeks earlier or later, and passage

would have been impracticable." Considerably

further north, however, not far below Beisan, Lieut.

Molyneux remarked 14 a quantity of deposit in the

plain of the Jordan, and the marks of water in

various places at a distance from the river, from

which it was evident that the Jordan widely over­

flows its banks; and the sheikh informed him that

in winter it is occasionally half a mile across; which

accounts for the luxuriant vegetation in this part of

the Ghor" (2. c. p. 117). It would appear from

this that the subsidence of the basin of the Dead

Sea and the more rapid fall of the Jordan consequent

upon it, which has also cut out for it a deeper

channel, has prevented the overflow except in those

parts where the fall is not so rapid.

Another change may also be accounted for in the

same manner. "The fords of the Jordan" were

once few and far between, as is evident from the

historical notices. (Joth. ii. 7: Judges, iii. 28, vii.

24, xii. 5.) But Lieut. Molyneux says of the upper

part of its course, " I am within the mark when I

say that there are many hundreds of places where

we might have walked across, without wetting our

feet, on the Urge rocks and stones" (p. 115).

The thick jungle on the banks of the river was

formerly a covert for wild beasts, from which they

were dislodged by the periodical overflow of the

river; and "the lion coming up from the swelling of

Jordan" is a familiar figure in the prophet Jere­

miah (xlix. 19, 1. 44). It was supposed until very

recently that not only the lion but all other wild

beasts were extinct in Palestine, or that the wild

boar was the sole occupant of the jungle; but the

seamen in company with Lieut. Molyneux reported

having seen " two tigers and a boar" in their pas­

sage down the stream (p. 118).

The principal tributaries of the Jordan join it from

the east; the most considerable are tho Yarmuk

[Gaoara] and the Zerka [Jabbok],

This river is principally noted in sacred history

for the miraculous passage of the children of Israel

under Joshua (iii.), — the miracle was repeated

twice afterwards in the passage of Elijah and Klisha

(2 Kings, ii. 8, 14),—and for the baptism of our

Lord {St. Matt. iii. &c). It is honoured with

scanty notice by the classical geographers. Strata

reckons it the largest river of Syria (xvi. p. 755).

Pliny is somewhat more communicative. He speaks

of Paneas as its source, consistently with Josephus.

"Jordanis amnis oritur e fonte Paneade, qui nomen

dedit Caesareae ; amnis amoenus, et quatenus lo-

coram situs patitur ambitiosus, accolisque se prae-

bens, velut invitus. Asphaltiden lacnm dirum

natura petit, a quo postremo ebibitur, aquasque

laudatas perdit pestilentibus mistas. Ergo ubi prima

convallium fuit occasio in lacum se fundit, quern

pltires Genesaram vocant, etc." (Hist. Nat. v. 15.)

Tacitus, though more brief, is still more accurate,

as he notices the Bahr llulth as well as the sea of

Tiberias. "Nec Jordanes pelago accipitur: sed

unum atque alteram lacum, integer perfluit: tertio

retinetur." (Hist. v. 6.)

The ancient name for El-Ghor was Aulow, and

the modern native name of the Jordan is Es.

SJiiriah.

(Karl von Raumcr, Palastina, 2nd ed., 1850,

pp. 48—54, 449—452; Hitter, Erdkunde, ifc. West

Asien, vol. 15, pp. 181—556, A. D. 1850, Oer

