824 KOMA.

transaction is clear and graphic, and the best guide

to the topography of the neighbourhood. The aped

monarch had reached the top of the Vicus Cyprius

(*'ad summuin Cyprium vicum") when he was

overtaken and slain. His daughter followed in her

carriage, and, having arrived at the same spot where

stood a temple of Diana a little before the time when

Livy wrote, she was just turning to the right in order

to ascend the Clivus Urdu s, which led to the

summit of the Ksquiline, when the affrighted driver

reined his horses, and pointed out to Tullia the

bleeding corpse of her murdered father; but the

fiend-like Tullia bade him drive on, and arrived at

home bespattered with the blood of her parent.

From this unnatural deed the street which was the

scene of it obtained the name of Vicus Sceleratus

(i. 48). The question that has been sometimes raised

whether Tullia was returning to her father's or to

tier husband's house, does not seem to be of much

importance. Solinus, indeed (i. 25), represents Ser-

vius Tullius as residing "supra clivuin Urbium,"

and Tarquinius Superbus, also on the Esquiline, but,

"Supra clivuin Pullium ad Fagutalem lucum." The

house of the latter therefore must have been upon

the Oppius, on which the Lucus Fagu talis was situ­

ated, and moat probably upon the southern side of it;

but he may not have resided here till after he became

king. On the other hand, as Tullia is represented

as turning to the right in order to ascend the Clivus

Urbioa to the royal residence, it is plain that the

Vicus Cyprius must have lain on the north side of

one of the tongues of the Esquiline ; and as we are

further informed by Dionysius, in a passage before

quoted (iii. 22), that there was a lane which led

down from the Oarinae, or western extremity of the

Oppius, to the Vicus Cyprius, the conclusion is

forced upon us that the palace of Serving Tullius

must have been situated upon the eastern part of

the northern side of the Oppius, and that conse­

quently the Vicus Cyprius must have corresponded

with the modern Via di S. Lucia in Selci. The

Summus Cyprius Vicus was evidently towards the

head of the valley, the lower part of the street run­

ning under the Carinae; and hence the Clivus

Urbius and the residence of Sen-ins may be placed

somewhere near the church of S. Martina. Before

the usurpation of Tarquin, he and his wife may have

resided near his father-in-law, or even under the

game roof; or, what is still more probable, Tullia, as

Ovid represents her patrios initura Penates," Fast.

vi. 60*2), was proceeding to take possession of her

father's palace, since his dejtosition had been effected

in the senate before his murder. Urlichs (Horn.

Topogr. p. 119) admits that the Vicus Cyprius

answered to the Via di S. Lucia, yet holds that

Servius resided on the Cispius; a view utterly ir­

reconcilable with the fact that the Clivus Orbing

and palace lay on the right of that street. The

passages before adduced prove the direction of the

Vicus Cyprius as clearly as any locality in Koine

can be proved which depends for its determination

solely on notices in the classics. Yet Becker shuts

his eyes to this satisfactory evidence, and maintains

that the Vicus Cyprius corresponded with the

modern Via del Colusseo {Anttcort, p. 78); although

in that case also it would have l>eeii impossible for

Tullia to have ascended the Esquiline by turning to

the right. The only ground he assigns for this in­

comprehensible view is an arbitrary estimate of the

distances between the objects mentioned in Regio IV.

of the NoHtittj founded also on the assumption that

these objects are enumerated strictly is the enkr a

which they actually followed one another. Boi ■»

have already shown from Becker himself thattaaa

by no means always the case, and it is endattiT a*

so in the present instance; since, after tneataBBf

the Tigillium Sororium, which lay in er near

Subura, the order of the catalogue 1mm

and proceeds onwards to the Coloaanuo,

again at the end of tlie list revert* to the

The chief objection to placing the Was Cyaa»

under this side of the Oppius is, at Mr. Baceaf

observes {Class. Mus. vol. v. p. 247), that it »a4

thus seein to interfere with the Sobanu Bat lUi

objection is not urged either by Becker or I'rataej

and indeed the Subura, like the Yelabrum, srtmm

have been a district rather than a street. *> Uatvfl

may conceive the Vicus Cyprius to have run t*na|%

it.

The position of the Tigillum Soitoaim a m

termined by what has been already said; sanri*,il

a narrow street leading down from the Carinae a ■

Vicus Cyprius. It seems to hate been a vaM

beam erected across the street. As it * aeaMB

in the Xotitia, this monument, connected wtfial

of Rome's early legends, must have existed mm

to the 5th century; and indeed Livy (i. 26) ai

us that it was constantly repaired at the mm

expense. We learn from Dionysins (io. 22) M

Festus (p. 297, Mull.) that on each side of rfafl

an altar; one to Juno Sororia, the other to Jaaj

CuRlATIUS.

Having had occasion to mention the Suarafl

may be as well to describe that celebrated baa

before proceeding further with the topega^H

the Esquiline. We have already seen fn» aa

that it was one of the most ancient dtsrrioal

Home; and its importance may be iutored ftafl

having given name to the 1st Servian Repam, 1

have also alluded to a passage in the aaaa mm

(L.L. v. § 48. Mull.) which shows it to tanej

originally a distinct village, called Soccsaaoral

Succusanns, lying under the Carinae. Vane 4

that the name still continued to be written *4k

instead of a B; a statement which it corawai

the fact that in inscriptions the Tribes Saa

is always denoted by the abridged form tu*>i

(Cf. Festus, s. r. Subura, p. 309, Hail. . Qi

Just. Or. i. 7. § 29; Mummsen. Dm H

p. 79, seq.) A piazza or place under the cbaal

S. Pietro in Vincoli still bears the namet/Jril

and the church of 5. A gala over the Tiaen

petUi, which skirts the eastern foot of tbe

hill, bore in the middle ages the same rfl

Soburra" or '* super Subnrra." H- nre it ai

probable that the Subura onupied the whofcfl

valley formed by the extremities of" the Qrif

Viminal,and Esquiline, and must cir«sr«^«£cV4

been, not a street but, a region of Mane nai

indeed we find it called by Gregorr the Gal

the 6th century ("in region* nrbts ilia qaaeaq

dicitur." DiaL iii. c 30). Rut that il i i "nutria

word as far as the Forum Trans it on una. taj

tion which seems to rest solely on the enhra

the names in the 4th Region of the A*ocaoa\ai

hardly conceive. We hare shown that taeaa

between the back of the imperial form and tbeaa

extremity of the Ksquiline may perhapa ttawM

part of the Carinae; bat it can hardlv heaa]

called both Carinae and Subura. The attar a!

to have properly begnn at the |

rinalis approaches the e;

• point

