MIMACES. MINAEI. 857

Pfcddia, bordering upon Lycia, that is, the territory

extending from Termeasus northward to the foot of

mount Cadmus. (Polyb. v. 72; Strab. xii. p. 570,

xiii. p. 631, xiv. p. 666.) This district, the western

part of which, bore the name of Cabalia, U after­

wards described, sometimes as a part of I.vein (Ptol.

t. 3. § 7, 5. § 6), and sometimes as part of Pafn-

phylia or Pisidia. (Ptol. r. 2. § 12; Plin. v. 42.)

After the conquest of Antiochus the Great, the Ko-

maus »ra the country to Eumcnes (Polyb. £xc. de

Ltg. 36), though Pisidian princes still continue to be

nvntkoed as its rulers.

The greater part of Milyas was rugged and

mountainous, but it also contained a few fertile

plains. (Strab. xii. p. 570.) The inhabitants

were called Milyae. (MiAiiai, Herod, vii. 77; Strab.

xiv. p. 667; Plin. v. 25, 42.) This name, which

does not occur in the Homeric poems, probably be­

longed to the remnants of the ancient Solymi, the

original inhabitants of Lycia, who had been driven

into ibe mountains by the immigrating Cretans.

The most important towns in Milyas were Cibyra,

Oesoaxda, Baluira, and Bubos, which formed

the Cibyratian tetrapolis. Some authors also men­

tion a town of Slilyas (Polyb. v. 72; Ptol. v. 2.

§ 12; Steph. B. a. v. MiAvu), which must have

been situated N. of Termessus in Pisidia. [L. S.]

MIMACES (Mi'^oJcct), a people in Byzaciuin

(PtiJ. iv. 3. § 26), and also in Libya Interior. (1'toL

iv. 6. § 20.) [E. B. J.]

MIMAS (■) Mi'uas), a mouutain range in Ionia,

traversing the peninsula of Erythrae from south to

nerth. it still bears its ancient name, under which it

a mentioned in the Odyssey (iii. 172.) It is, pro­

perly speaking, only a branch of Mount Tmolos, and

was celebrated in ancient times for its abundance of

wood and game (Strab. xiv. pp. 613, 645.) The

netk at the south-western extremity of the peninsula

funned by Mount Mimas, a little to the north of Teas,

is only about 7 Roman miles broad, and Alexander

theGreat intended to cut a canal through the isthmus,

K u to connect the Caystrian and Hermaean bays;

but it was one of the few undertakings in which he

did not succeed. (Plin. v. 31; Pans. ii. 1. § 5;

eompvii. 4. § 1; Thucyd. viii. 34; O. Met. ii. 222;

Atnm. Marc. xxxi. 42; Callim. llymn. in Del. 157;

SO. ItaL ii. 494.)

Mount Mimas forms three promontories in the

peninsula; in the south Corycenm (Koraka or

Ksrh>y, in the west Argennum {Cape Blanco),

and in the north Melaena(A'aro Burnu"). Chandler

(TrowZi, p. 213) describes the shores of Mount

Minus as covered with pines and shrubs, and

pmi-bed with flWers, He passed many small

pleasant spots, well watered, and green with com or

with myrtles and shrubs. The summit of the moun­

tain commands a magnificent view, extending over

the bays of Smyrna, Clazomenae, and Erythrae, the

UUmds of Samoa, Chios, and several others. [I.. S.j

MINAEI (Mfiraibi), a celebrated people of

1"»wb. in the SW. of Arabia. Strabo names

them first of four great nations situated in this

extremity of the peninsula, and bordering on the

Red Sea: their principal town was Carna or

Carina; next to these were the Sabaei, whose

eajjul was Mariaba. The Catabanes were the

thini, extending to the straits and the passage of

tbe Arabia,, Qulf—tie Straits of Bab-el Mandeb.

Tbeir royal city was Tamna. To the east were the

Chatnmotitae, whose capital was named Cabatanum.

Fnen Dana to the country of tlic Minaei was 70

days'journey. Thus far Strabo (xvi. pp. 768, 776);

consistently with whose account, Ptolemy (vi. 7. §23)

mentions the Minaei as a mighty people (MiwtTot,

fjieya iQyos), bordering on the inner frankincense

country, not far from the Sabaei, and places Carna

Metropolis in long. 73° 30", lat. 23° 15', which would

be on the coast of the Gulf of Arabia, distinct from

the Camus or Carna above named, and identical

with the Cornon of Pliny, a town of the Channaei,

who were contiguous to the Minaei. Pliny represents

the Minaei as contiguous to the Atramitae in the in­

terior; whii.li Atramitae—identical no doubt with the

Chatramotitae of Strabo—he represents as a branch

of the Sabaei, which last tribe extended along both

seas, i. e. the Indian Ocean and the Arabian Gulf;

and as the Camus,which he names as a city of tho

Sabaei, is doubtless the Carna which Strabo makes

the capital of the Minaei, he would seem to imply

that these last were also another division of tho

same principal tribe of the Sabaei. Their country

was reported by Aelius Gallus to be exceedingly

rich. "Minaeis textiles agros palmetis arbustisquc,

in pecore divitias." (Plin. vi. 32.) They are men­

tioned by Diodorus (as Mivyatoi'), in connection with

the Gerrhaei, as transporting frankincense and other

scented wares from Upper Arabia (in ttjs a>w \e70-

(UeVrfi Apa&as), i.e. the interior (iii. 42). All these

notices would son e to fix the seat of this tribe at the

SW. part of the peninsula, in the modem i'tmen. Pliny

says that they were supposed to derive their origin

from Minos, the king of Crete, as their neighbours, the

Rhadamaei, were from his brother Rhadaniauthus

(vi. 32), in which Mr. Forster thinks we may " easily

recognise, under the thin veil of classical fiction, the

important historical fact of the existence of on open

trade between the Greeks and Arabs from very

remote times, and of all the facilities implied by com­

mercial intercommunity." {Arabia, vol. i. p. xxxvii.,

ii. pp. 74, 75.) In his account of the myrrh and

frankincense, Pliny relates that this plant, which

grew in the country of the Atramitae, one canton

(pagus) of the Sabaei, was conveyed by one narrow

path through the neighbouring canton of the Minaei,

who were the first to carry on the trade, and always

the most active in it; from which fact the frankin­

cense came to be called Miunoeum (xii. 30). And

in speaking of the various qualities of myrrh,

he mentions second, " Minaca, in qna Atramitica,''

as most esteemed next to the Troglodytica (xii.

35).

With regard to the position of this important

tribe in the modern map of Arabia, there is a wide

difference of opinion among geographers. D'Anvillo

finds their capital Carana in the modem Alnmka-

rana, which is, ho says, a strong place. {Geoyraph,

Anc. tome ii. p. 221; com p. forster, Arabia, vol. i.

p. liii.) Gossclin contends that Almakarana is too

far south for the Carna of the Minaei, and is dis­

posed to find this capital in Cam-al-Manazil, as

Bochart had suggested (Phafeg, lib. ii. cap. 22.

p. 121); which Edrisi places two days* journey

from Melcka, on the road to Sanaa. (Gossdin,

Recherches sur la Geographic des Ancietis, tome ii.

p. 116.) Dean Vincent thus attempts to fix their

position:—"The site of the Minneans is not easy to

fix; but by a comparison of different accounts, they

were S. of Hedjaz, N. of Hadramaut, and to the

eastward of Sabea; and they were the carriers to all

these provinces: their caravans passed in 70 days

from Nadramaui to Ailat as we learn from Strobo;

and Aila is but 10 miles (?) from Pi'tra." lie re-

a a a

