534 PAL1MB0THRA PALINURUS.

of Leontini. It is a mere pool, being not more than

4^0 feet in circumference, out early attracted atten-

ti"ii train the remarkable phenomena caused by two

jt'ts of volcanic gas, which rist* under the water,

causing a violent ebullition, and sometimes throwing

up the water to a considerable height, On this

account the spot was, from an early period, con-

fddered sacred, and consecrated to tlie indigenous

deities railed the Palici, who had a temple on the

spot. This enjoyed the privileges of an asylum for

fugitive slaves, and was much resorted to also fur

determining controversies by oaths; an oath taken

by the holy spring, or craters as they are called,

being considered to possess peculiar sane! ity, and its

violation to be punished on the spot by the death of

the otlender. The remarkable phenomena of the

locality are described in detail by Diodorua, as well as

by several other writers, anil notwithstanding some

slight discrepancies, leave no doubt that the spot

was the same now called the Layo di Naftia, from

the naphtha with which, as well as sulphur, the

sources are strongly impregnated. It would, how­

ever, seem that in ancient times there were two

separate pools or craters, sometimes termed foun­

tains (Kpyvat), and that they did not, as at the

present day, form one more considerable pool or lake.

Hence they are alluded to by Ovid as Stagna Pali-

C'rum;" while Virgil notices only tho sanctuary or

altar, w pinguis ct placabilis ara Palici." (Diod. xi.

89; Steph. Byz. *. v.Ua\tK-fj\ Pseud.-Arist. Afirab.

58; Maerob. Sat. v. 19; Strab. vi. p. 275; Ovid,

Met. v. 406; Virg. Aen, ix. 585; Sil. Ital. xiv.

219; Norm, Dionys. xiii. 311.) The sacred cha­

racter of the spot as an asylum for fugitive slaves

caused it to be selected for the place where the great

servile insurrection of Sicily in it. o. 102 was lirst

discussed and arranged; and for the same reason

Salvjus, the leader of the insurgents, made splendid

offerings at the shrine of the Palici. (Diod. xxxvi.

7.)

1 here was not in early times any other settlement

besides the sanctuary and its appurtenances, adjoin­

ing the lake of the Palici; but in B.C. 453, Duce-

tius, the celebrated chief of the Siculi, founded a

city cl'we to the lake, to winch he gave the name of

Palica (noAiKTj), and to which he transferred the

inhabitants of Menaennm and other neighbouring

towns. This city rose for a short time to consider­

able prosperity; but was destroyed again shortly

after the death of I) i lectin*, and never afterwards

restored. (Diod. si. 88, 90.) Hence the notices of

it in Stephanus of Byzantium and other writers can

only refer to this brief period of its existence.

(Steph. li. I. c; Polenmn, <tp. Macrob. I. c.) The

modern town of Palagonia is thought to retain the

traces of the name of Palica. but certainly does not

occupy the site of the city of Ducctius, being situ­

ated on a lofty hill, at some distance from the Logo

di Xaftia. Some remains of the temple and other

buildings were still visible in the days of Fuzello in

the neighbourhood of the lake. The locality is fully

described by him, and more recently by the Abate

Ferrara. (Fazell. de Reb, Sic hi. 2; Ferrara,

Campi FUgrei drlla Sicilia, pp.48.105.) [E.H.B.]

PALIMBOTHUA (IlaAmttfya. Ptol. vii. 1. §

73; Steph. B. s. v.), a celebrated city of ancient In­

dia, situated at the junction of the Ganges and

Lrannaboas(Hirdnjavaha), at present known by the

name of Patna. Strabo, who states (ii. p. 70) that

Me<rasthcnes was sent to Paliinbothra its an am-

byssador to the king Sandrocottus {(.'handra<jnpt.i).

describes it as a vast town, in the form of ifanl-

lelogram 80 stadia in length and 15 in breath,

surrounded by a stockade, in which oprn spaces *w»

cut to shoot through, and by a ditch. Hudlwiut

it. was in the country of the Prasii (it. p. TOiV

In another passage he places it, on the authority i*

Megasthenes, at 6000 stadia from the nioutla £

the Ganges; or on that of Patrorles, who iris sr.t

as an ambassador to Aliitrochades, the .*oo of ?*a-

drocottus (ii. p. 70), at 5000 stadia (it. p. 689),

Pliny approaches most nearly to the com put*! t q

of the latter traveller, as he makes the distance fra

Paliinbothra to the sea to be 638 M. W nboot 5100

stadia (vi. 17. § 21). Arrian calls it the pvat**t

of the cities of India, and apparently qu-tta ;»

same description from Megasthenes which gtnfe

must have had before him. {Indie c 10.) lA>

dorus attributes to Hercules the building of its ■""lA

(ii. 39). Where Pliny says " Amnis Jomn** «

Gangem per Palibothros deeurrit," he is er*J«!l?

speaking of the people, and Dot, as some harp ny-

posed, of the town (vi. 19). There seems do reave

to doubt that the ancient Sanscrit name of this v*%

was Pataliputra. (Lassen, IndijcA. Aitertkt*.

i. p. 137; Franklin, Inquiry into the ancient

bothra, Lond. 1815, who, however,places uwTM>sti

at BhagalpurJ) [V.j

PALINDROMIC PROMONTORIUM (IU\i*

Bpoi^os &Kpa), a promontory of the extreme Sw.^

the Arabian peninsula, at the Strait* of B-ifr-et

Mandeb, placed by Ptolemy between Occiis K117*

rium and Posidium Promontorium, in long. T43

lat. 11° 40' (vi. 7. § 7). It now bean tlie rta

name as the strait. (Moresby, Sailing DirtctoK

fur the Red Sen, p. 2.) * [G. W.l

PALINU'RUS or PALIXU'RI PROM«>\'iO

RIUM (lla\lvovpos OKpwr-fjpiov, Strab.: CapeM

uro), a promontory on the coast of Lacuna. » 13

Tyrrhenian sea, between Veil* and Buxentam. I

had a port of the same name immediate!? ad y-.-^m: i

which still bears the name of the Porto di /'uib^

Both headland and port received their name fn

the well-known tradition, recorded by Yirpl, *

alluded to by many other Latin writer*, that it "f

here that Palinurus, the pilot of Aeneas, was ca^i

shore and buried. (Virg. Aen. v. 833—87U

337—381; Dionys. i. 53; Lucan, ix. 42;

4. § 9; Solin. 2. § 13.) We learn fr\*n itrn

that heroic honours were paid him by the Luoju*i

(probably by the citizens of Yelia). and that be h

a cenotaph and sacred grove not tar (rum thai d

(Serv. ml Aen. vi. 278.) It does not appear tj

there was ever a town adjoining the headhunt: *

the port, which is small, though secure aai *

sheltered, is mentioned only by Dionjsiua; bai 1

promontory is noticed by all the geoerapberj <xa

Ptolemy, and is described by Pliny as torrr^ I

northern boundary of a great bay which mi'i-s

conKidered as extending to the Colainna Rfenca,

the headland on the Sicilian strait.-*, Hani

the most salient f*oint of the pn^>ectitie rrm*

mountains which se}<irute the gulf of Poeudonis tl

that of Laiis or Policastro, and form tlte clucr u

ral feature of the coast of Lucania. (Pirn. ux. J

10; Mel. ii. 4. § 9; Strab. vi. p. 252; <>n». it.

Some ruins of ancient buildings are stiU T»iiij

the summit of the headland, which are pa\«J

known as the tomb 'if Palinurus. The prvttv^

still retains its ancient name, though Talgarli

rupted into that of Pahmmdo.

Like most mountain promontories, thai erf 1

