MYCENAE. 381 MYCENAE

.-mi flue, which spread out under its walls towards

!ir "Trt mi loath; and secondly the most import-

is rasas from the Corinthian gulf, the roads from

(iba, Sana, Ctonae, and Corinth, unite in the

i vtttias ibove Mycenae, and pass under the height

-j t thich the city stands. It was said to have  
InUtb Perseus (Strab. viii. p. 377; Pans. B.

II §t S. 16. §3), and its massive walls were be­

ta kite been the work of the Cyclopes. Hence

calls Mycenae v6\tTfm rifpfftws, KokAw-

w rinr x»pi, (Iphig. in Aul. 1500). It was

L* fsrasrits residence of the Pclopidae, and under

.CiraoM! was regarded as the first city in Greece.

Bni its called ToAvYpixro; by Homer (/ivii.180, I

xl M),*bo also gives it the epithets of tvpvdyvia

k S) and ivm'/urov xro\ltepoy (/I ii. 569). j

b rtaiaas belongs only to the heroic age, and it

mm t»k*l place of importance after the return of

iSfflscitsdae and the settlement of the Dorians in |

Irna, vfaich then became the first city in the plain,

hear, however, maintained its independence, and

te mm of its citizens to the assistance of the

t the host of Xerxes, although the Ar-

r-i bpt aloof from the common cause. Eighty

ere present at Thermopylae (Herod.

S"S). and 400 of their citizens and of the Tiryn-

at Plataeae (Herod, ix. 28). In

'& the Dorians of Argos, resolving to bring

wbalc district under their sway, laid siege to

cat; bat the massive walls resisted all their

they were obliged to have recourse to

Famine at length compelled the inha-

Ks to abandon the city; more than half of them

took refuge in Macedonia, and the remainder in Cle-

onae and Ceryneia. (Diod. xi. 65; Strab. viii.

pp.372, 377: I'hus. ii. 16. §5, v. 23. § 3, vii. 25.

§ 3, viii, 27. § 1.) From this time Mycenae remained

uninhabited, for the Argives took care that this

strong fortress should remain desolate. Strabo, how­

ever, committed a gross exaggeration in saying that

there was not a vestige of Mycenae extant in bis

time (viii. p. 372). The ruins were visited by Pan-

sanias, who gives the following account of them (ii.

15, 16):—"Returning to the jiass of the Tretus,

and following the road to Argos, you have the ruins

of Mycenae on the left hand. Several parts of tho

enclosure remain, and among them is the gate upon

which the lions stand. These also are said to be the

work of the Cyclopes, who built the walls of Tiryns

fur Proelus. Among the ruins of the city there is

a fountain named l'erseia, and subterraneous build­

ings (winrycua otVcoctojuTj/saTa) of Atreus and his

sons, in which their treasures were deposited. There

are likewise the tombs of Atreus, of his charioteer

Eurymedon, of Electra, and a sepulchre in common

of Teledamus and I'elops, who are said to have been

twin sons of Cassandra. But Clytaemnestra and

Aegisthus were buried at a little distance from the

walls, being thought unworthy of burial where Aga­

memnon lay."

The ruins of Mycenae are still very extensive,

and, with the exception of those of Tiryns, are mora

ancient than those of any other city in Greece. They

belong to a period long antecedent to all historical

records, and may be regarded as the genuine relics

of the heroic age.

TI.AN Of THE RUINS OK MVCKNAE.

B. Oate of l.lon«.

s building, usually called the Treasury

D. Subterraneous building.

E. Village of Khanati.

- tftsa su

of an Acropolis and a lower | of which the base fronts the south west, and the

by a wall. The Acropolis was apex the cast. On the southern side the cliffs
are

immit of a steep hill, projecting ! almost precipitous, overhanging a deep
gorge; but

ntain behind it. The lower town : on the northern side the descent is less
steep and

-western slope of the hill, on either rugged. The summit of the hill is rather more than  
reus a torrent from east to west. | 1000 feet in length, and around the edge
the ruined

• in form of an irregular triangle, walls of the Acropolis still exist in
their entire cir-

