VOLCI. 1321 VOLSCI.

VOLCI (OMutoi, Ptol.: J?<*. Volciens:

Km near

Pmle delta Badia), a city of Ktruria, situated in the

plain 011 the right bank of the rivor Armina (Fiora),

about 8 miles Iroin its mouth. Very little mention is

found of it in history. The name of the city in

known from Ptolemy as well as from Pliny, who

(numerates, among the municipal towns of Ktruria,

the " Volcentini cognomine Etrusci," an appellation

evidently used to distinguish them from the people of

Vulcentum in Lucauia. (I'mi. iii. 5. >. 8; Ptol. iii.

1. § 49.) The name is quoted also by Stephanus

of Byzantium, who writes it 'OAkiov, from Polybius.

(Steph. B. I. v.) But the only indication that they

had once been a powerful people, and their city a

place of importance, is found in the Fasti Capitolini,

which record a triumph in the year b.c. 280 over the

Volsiniensea and Vulcientes (/"aft Capit. ad ann.

473). This was one of the last struggles ol the

Etruscans for independence, and it was doubtless in

convenience of the spirit shown on this occasion by

the Volcientes that the Romans shortly afterwards

(in R. c 273) established a colony at Cosa, in their

territory. (Veil. Pat. i. 14; Plin. iii. 5. s. 8.) It is

expressly stated on this occasion by Pliny, that Cosa

was a dependency of Volci (Cosa Vulcienlium), a

statement which has been ignored by those modern

writers who hare represented Cosa as an independent

and important Etruscan city. But while this is

very doubtful in the case of Cosa, the evidence,

though scanty, is conclusive that Volci was such;

and there is even reason to suppose, from a monu­

ment discovered at Cerctlri, that it was at one time

reckoned one of the twelvechief cities of the Etruscan

League. (Ann. d. /rut Arc!,. 1842, pp. 37—40.)

But notwithstanding these obscure hints ot its

greatness, the name of Volci was almost forgotten,

and its site unknown, or at least regarded as uncer­

tain, when the first discovery of its necropolis in

1828 led to subsequent researches on the spot,

which have brought to light a number of painted

rases greatly exceeding that which has been dis­

covered on any other Etruscan site. The unprece­

dented number, beauty, and variety of these works of

art have given a celebrity in modern times to the

Daine of Volci which is probably as much in excess

of its real importance in ancient times as in the

■ v.. r. parallel case of Pompeii. It is impossible

In?re to enter into any detailed account of the result

uf these excavations. It is calculated that above

6000 tombs in all have been opened, and the contents

hare been of the most varied kind, belonging to

different periods and ages, and varying from the

coarsest and rudest pottery to the finest painted

rases. The same tombs hare also yielded very

numerous objects and works of art in bronze, as

well as delicate works in gold and jewellery; and

after making every allowance for the circumstance

that the cemetery at Volci appears to have enjoyed

the rare advantage of remaining undisturbed through

ages, it affords incontestable proof that it must have

belonged to a wealthy and populous city. The

necropolis and its contents are fully described by Mr.

Dennis (Etruria, vol. i. pp. 397—427). The re-

of the excavations, in regard to the painted

discovered, are given by Gerhard in his Rap.

i Van VvUxnti, published in the Ammtli

drW Institute for 1831. It is remarkable that only

one of the thousands of tombs opened was adorned

with paintings similar to those found at Tarquinii,

and, in this instance, they are obviously of late date.

The site of the city itself has been carefully ex­

plored since these discoveries have attracted so much

interest to the spot. It stood on the right bank of

the river Armina, just below the point where that

stream is spanned liy a noble bridge, now called the

Pontt delta Badia, undoubtedly a work of Koman

times, though the foundations may be Etruscan.

The few remaining relics of antiquity still visible on

the site of the city, which occupied a plateau of

about 2 miles in circumference, are also of Roman

date, and mostly belong to a late periid. Inscrip­

tions also have been discovered, which prove it to

hare continued to exist under the Roman Empire;

and the series of coins found there shows that it was

still in existence, at least as late as the fourth

century of the Christian era. In the middle ages it

seems to have totally disappeared, though the plain

in which it Htocd continued to be known as the /'ion

di Voci, whence Holsteniug correctly inferred that

this must have been the site of Volci. (Holsten.

iVof. ad Cluver. p. 40.) The necropolis was, for

the most part, on the other side of the river; and it

is hero that the excavations have been carried on

most diligently. The site of Volci (which is now

wholly uninhabited) is about 8 miles from Montallo,

a small town at the mouth of the Fiora, where

that river was crossed by the Via Aurelia. (Den­

nis, tft) [E. H. B.]

Vul.CIANI, a people in Hispania Tarraconensis.

(Liv. xxi. 19.) [T. H. D.]

VOLENOS, a fort in Rhaetia, in the territory of

Tridcntum, which was destroyed by the Franks

(Paul. Diac. lAmgob. iii. 31), and is generally iden­

tified with the modem village of Volano on the

Adige, south of Culiano [I.. S.]

VOI.IBA (OodAiSa, Ptol. ii. 3. § 30), a town of

the Dumnonii in Britannia Romans, near the W.

extremitr of the island. Most prohablv Fabimtith.

(Camden, p. 16.) [T. H. D.]

VOLOBRIGA (OiloAcsJoryu, Ptol. ii. 6. § 41), a

town in Gallaocia in Hispania Tarraconensis belong­

ing to the Nemetatae. [T. H. I).]

VOLOGATIS, in Gallia Narbonen.is. is placed

by the Jerusalem Itin. after Lucus (/.tic), on the

road to Vapincum ( Cap) past Mons Saleucux. The

distance from Lucus is ix.; and D'Anrille supposes

that Vologatis may be a place named Lecke*, but

the distance ix. is too much. Others fix the place

at Zfeatiriere,- and others propose Lethet or Bean-

numt. All this is uncertain. [G. L.]

VOLOGE'SIA (OioKytala, Ptol. r. 20. § 6), a

city built by and named after Vologeses, one of the

Arsacidan kings of Parthia, in the immediate neigh­

bourhood of Seleuceia upon the Tigris. It is called

by Pliny, Vologesocerta (vL 26. s. 30), the latter por­

tion of the name implying the " city of." The ex­

tensive ruins, still existing, on both sides of the

Tigris, are probably those of the two gieat cities of

Seleuceia and Vologcsia. [V.]

VOLSAS (OiioAffai miKwot, Ptol. ii. 3. § 1), a

bay on the W. coast of Britain, prohablv LocA Brey.

(Horsley, p. 378.) £t. II. R]

VOLSCI (i )u'<jAo-sioi, Strab.;Oi)oAoSo-*<m, Di.nys.),

an ancient peoplo of Central Italy, who bear a pro­

minent part in early Rinnan history. Their territory

was comprised within the limits of I.atiutn as that

name was employed at a late period, and under the

Koman Empire ; but there is no doubt that the

Volscians were originally a distinct people from the

Latins, with whom, indeed, they were almost always

on terms of hostility. On the other hand they ap-

I pear as constantly in alliance with the Aequi; and

