SACCASENA. S71 SACRIPORTL'S.

b* mm pared with Min-nagara, a town on the Indus

t»liT^inj to the same people. (Aman, I'tripl. Mar.

trjti. § 38.) fMisnaoara.] [V.]

SACCASLNA, a place in Cappadocia, probably

ia ;i» neighbourhood of the modern Urgub or L'rkup.

{It AmL p. 296.) [L. S.J

SACCC/PODES (SaxKOTooct), according to

Hnimt, a name given to the people of Adiabene in

Aarrra (rrL p. 745). There has been a great

aiming learned men as to this name, which

to be a genuine one. Bochart has

(SaoKooiroScf). On the

it would seem that the emendation

t 1 tarhnkke is the best, who reads 2avAo>ooct.

Grakird, ad Strab. rol iii. p. 225.) [V.]

SACER MONS (to 'Upbv Jpos) was the name

v..n ic a hill about 3 miles from Rome, across the

una and on the right of the Via Nomentana. It is

lrctiaoed only on occasion of the two secessions of

i- ^Vbrtan* from Home: the first of which, in B. c.

'H. »u terminated by the dexterity of Menenius

^rr>fa\t and gave occasion to the election of the

nt nam of the people. (Liv. ii. 32; Dionys. vi.

5. Appian, B. C. i. I.) In memory of this treaty

ad fbe * Lex Sacrata " which was passed there to

* frr-n it, an altar was erected on the spot, which  
>r«rf.«th always bore the name of "the Sacred

least.* (Dionys. vi. 90; Appian, ic). The se­

ed orrasion was during the Decemvirate; when

r [irboans, who had at first seceded only to the

•vstioe, on finding that this produced no effect,

shitew to the Sacred Mount (Liv. iii. 52). Cicero,

tiie contrary, represents the secession on this

nam as taking place first to the Sacred Mount,

i thea to the Aventine (Cic. de R. P. ii. 37).

anily any spot in the neighbourhood of Rome, not

rkad by any existing ruins, is so clearly identified

:y descriptions of ancient writers as the Sacer

i». both Livy and Cicero concur in placing it

antra front Rome, across the Anio ; and the former

irwly tells us that the plebeians, on the second

■an. proceeded thither by the Via Nomentana,

rh was then called Ficulensis (Liv. ii. 32, iii. 52;

l hnu. 14. pro Cornel., ap. Ascon. p. 76). Now

s tr.:rj mile along the Via Nomentana brings us to

ant jo* across the Anio; and on the right of the

ti »! ibis piiint is a hill overlooking the river, in

v drcree isolated from the plateau beyond, with

irz il i*. however, closely connected, while its front

ranii the valley of the Anio ia steep and almost

ripctoaa.

Do ha E. side flows a small stream, descending

i the '"/vale dei Pazzi (apparently the one known

as the Rivus Clmanus): so that the

of considerable strength, especially

ime. The site is now

designated by no peculiar nppeU

ra. (Jtibbv, Viniurni di Roma, vol. iii. pp. 54,

) [E. H. B.]

"ATHALITAE (JoxeArroi). a people upon the

-*ut of Arabia Felix (Ptol. vi. 7. §§ II, 24, 25),  
: .pn the bay called after them Sach.ii.itks

m ^ (2ax*A^'ri*' KaKwoi). Respecting the position

bav then was a difference of opinion among

geographers, Marinus placing it towards

id Ptolemy towards the east, of the pro-

(Rat Forfait). (I't«.l. i. 17. § 2,

$§ I I, 46.) Marcianus (p. 23) agrees

l> Piolemy; ami says that the bav extended from

fnjsnonlory to the mouth of the Persian gulf

* B. *. r. 2axaA'T1f k<Sa*os). Arrian

(Peripl Mar. Erylltr. p. 17. § 29) on the other

hand agrees with Marcian, and places the bay be­

tween Cane and the promontory Syagrus. (See C.

Miiller, ad Arrian, L c.)

SACILI or SACILI MARTIAL1UM (Plin. iii. I.

s. 3; called by Ptolemy 2aictAi'r, ii. 4. § 11), a town

of the Turduli in Hispanin Baetica, at a place near

Perabad, now called Alcorrucen. (Morales, Antig.

p. 96: Florez, Etp. Sagr. p. 147.) [T. H. D.]

SA'CORA (2<o<obo), a town in the interior of

Paphlagonia, is mentioned oniy by Ptolemy (v. 4.

§5). [L.S.]

SACORSA (XiKopaa), a town in the interior of

Paphlagonia, is mentioned only by Ptolemy (v. 4.

§6). '[L.S.]

SACRA'NI, was the name given by a tradition,

probably of very ancient date, to a conquering people

or tribe which invaded Latium at a period long

before the historical age. Festus represents them

as proceeding from Reate, and expelling the Siculi

from the Septimontium, where Rome afterwards stood.

He tells us that their name was derived from their

being the offspring of a " ver sacrum." (Fest. ». v.

Sacrani, p. 321.) It hence appears probable that

the Sacrani of Festus were either the same with the

people called Aborigines by Dionysius (i. 16)

[Aborigines], or were at least one clan or tribe

of that people. But it is very doubtful whether the

name was ever really used as a national appellation.

Virgil indeed alludes to the Sacrani as among the

inhabitants of Latium in the days of Aeneas (So-

cranat acies, Am. vii. 796), but apparently as a

small and obscure tribe. Servius in his commen­

tary on the passage gives different explanations

of the name, all varying from one another, and

from that given by Festus, which is the most

distinct statement we have upon the subject. Iu

another passage (ad Aen. xi. 317) Servius distin­

guishes the Sacrani from the Aborigines, but little

value can be attached to his statements on such

subjects. [E. H. B.]

SACRARIA. [Ci.iti'MNus.]

SACRIPORTUS (4 'Ifpoj ht/xtiv, Appian, B. C. i.

87), a place in Latium, between Signia and Praeneste,

celebrated as the scene of the decisive battle between

Sulla and the younger Marius, in which the latter

was totally defeated, and compelled to take refuge

within the walls of Praeneste, B.C. 82. (Liv. Epit.

Ixxxvii.; Appinn, B. C. i. 87; Veil. Pat. ii. 26, 28;

Flor. iii. 21. § 23; Vict. Vir.Ill. 68,75; Lucan, ii.

134.) The scene of the battle is universally de­

scribed as " apud Sacriportum," but with no more

precise distinction of the locality. The name of

Sacriportus does not occur upon any other occasion,

and we do not know what was the meaning of the

name, whether it were a village or small town, or

merely a spot so designated. But its locality may

be approximately fixed by the accounts of the battle;

this is described by Appian as taking place near

Praeneste, and by Plutarch (Sull. 28) as near Signia.

We learn moreover from Appian that Sulla having

besieged and taken Setia, the younger Marius, who

had in vain endeavoured to relieve it, retreated step

by step before him until he arrived in the neigh­

bourhood of Praeneste, when he halted at Sacriportus,

and gave battle to his pursuer. It is therefore

evident that it must have been situated injhe plain

below Praeneste, between that city and Signia, and

probably not far from the opening between the Alban

hills and the Volscian mountains, through which

must have lain the line of retreat of Marius;

3 k 4

