paxium. PANNONIA. 541

PtXIUM (nbtsr, Hierod. p. 632; Const Porph.

k 1'm.ii. 1. p. 47; Suidas, s. r.), a town on the

not Thro, dot Heracleia; perhaps the modern

imsim. [T. H. D.]

PA'XNOSA(nanwo), a town in the interior of

fate. & at CnoafQS, retaining the name of Panon.

(FiaLail7.§ 10.)

■ i.V (IlsavoWa, Ptol. ii. 1. § 12; or

fens, Zoom. ii. 43), one of the most important

swart* the Boman empire, on the south and

«*v tbf Danube, which forms its boundary in

a* nth and cast; in the south it bordered on

fetna *»d Mcesia, while in the west it was sepa-

ka: rrvsi Koricum by Mount Cetius, and from

h*< •* tie Julian Alps. The country extended

aW lie Danube from V'nidobona (Vienna) to

br^ara, sod sawrdingly comprised the eastern

antfiautrw, Corinth ia, Carhiola, the part of

bHwven the Danube and Sow, jS&zvonta,

a MM of Lroai&sand Bosnia. After its subju-

paw. St the Bomans, it was divided into Pannonia

ifr-u (if &m danvris) and Pannonia Inferior

*t,~u flsrwiaX by a straight line running from  
btaa □ the north to Servitium in the south, so

tat i? part west of this line constituted Upper

faton, ud that on the east Lower Pannonia.

pi i 15. $ 16.) In consequence of this division

itias? eoontnr is sometimes called by the plural

P> /'asfloaiae (Uajvovuu, Ptol. ii. 16. § 1;

Phn. zxxviL 11. a, 2). In the fourth

Jaw*, tie emperor Galenas separated the district

if**r PiDaDtnM. between the Jioob, Danube, and

law, aaa constituted it as a separate province

m le tame of Valeria, in honour of his wife who

V 0a same name. (Aar. Vict, de Caes. 40;

Mm. xvi. 10, xxviii. 3.) But as Lower

■i aremed by this measure to be too much

the Great added to it a part of

riz^ the districts about the Upper

,-and Upper Pannonia was henceforth

Prima, and Lower Pannonia, Pan-

(Amm. Marc xv. 3, xvii. 12.)

tins provinces belonged to the diocese of

It ahooJd be observed, however, that

v*-iiDda is sometimes also called Inter-

rW, nr Bipeasis. (Sext. Ruf. Brtv. 11;

1^) The three provinces into which Pan-

tiia divided were governed by three diflc-

*. » pneaes residing: at Sabaria, a consular  
■fc Srnuum, and a praefect who had his seat

p«* The part bordering upon Germany, which

*■* m oead of protection, had always the  
farrzaoas, though all Pannonia in general

tied by numerous armies, which were gradu-

•***d to seven legions. Besides these troops

Waned at Vindotxma was the strongest

'•anc fleets maintained on the Danube.

(xlix. 36) mentions an unfortunate

< the name of Pannonia from "pannus,"

^* awe of doth," referring to a peculiar article

4 tat inhabitants, though he also states at

»; i« that the natives called themselves Pan-

i *Watt it follows that the name can have

'- 4j with the Latin pannus. As to the

- name with that of Paeonians we shall

to apeak presently.

'^brtieal o/nfiguration, Pannonia forms a

■o n kaml only in the west and south

of any' considerable height, and

*! *;t by hills of a moderate size, which  
w* s—TBatanfa of the Alpine cliaiua in the

west and south, and are for this reason called by

Tacitus (Hist. ii. 28) and Tibullus (iv. I. 109) the

Pannonian Alps. The separate parts of these ramifi­

cations of the Alps are mentioned under the names

of Mount Cakvancias, Cetius, At.hii Mqxtm,

Claudius, and Alma or Almus. The mountains

on the western and southern frontiers contain the

sources of some important rivers, such as the Dka-

vus and Savus, which flow almost parallel and

empty themselves into the Danube. Only one

northern tributary of the Dravus is mentioned, viz.,

the Muiitcs; while the Savus receives from the

south the Nauportus, Carcorus, Colapis, Ok-

MKUSf Urpanus, Valdasus, and Drinus. The

only other important river in the north-west is the

Akkabo. The northern part of Pannonia contained

a great lake called the Peiso or Peiso (the Plat-

tensee), besides which we may notice some smaller

lakes, the Ulcaei Lacus, between the Save and the

Drave, near their mouth. The climate and fertility

of Pannonia are described by the ancients in a manner

which little corresponds with what is now known of

those countries. It is said to have been a rough,

cold, rugged, and not very productive country (Strut >.

vii. p. 317; Dion Cass. xlix. 37; Herodian, i. 6),

though later writers acknowledge the fertility of the

plains. (Solin. 21; com p. with Veil. Pat. ii. 110.)

Both statements, however, may be reconciled, if we

recollect how much the emperors Probus and Ga-

lerius did to promote the productiveness cf the

country by rooting out the large forests and render­

ing the districts occupied by them fit for agriculture.

(Plin. iii. 28; Appian, Mgr. 22; Hygin. de Limit.

Const, p. 206; Aurel. a"e Caes. 40.) As the forests

in those times were probably much more extensive

than at present, timber was one of the principal

articles of export from Pannonia, and great quan­

tities of it were imported into Italy. (Solin. 22.)

Agriculture was not carried on to any great extent,

and was for the most part confined to the rearing of

bailey and oats, from which the Pannonians brewed

a kind of beer, called Sabaia (Dion Cass. xlix. 36;

Amm. Marc. xxvi. 8), and which formed the chief

articles of food for the natives. Olives and vines do

not appear, at least in early times, to have grown at all

in Pannonia, until the emperor Probus introduced the

cultivation of the vine in the neighbourhood of Sir-

mium. (Vopisc. Prob. 1, 18 ; Eutrop. ix. 17;

Aurel. Vict, de Caes. 37.) Among the valuable

productions of the vegetable kingdom, the fragrant

saliuncn is mentioned (Plin. xxi. 20), and among

the animals dogs excellent for the chase are spoken

of by Kemesianus (Cynexj. 126), the cattac by Mar­

tial (xiii. 69), and the cliarax or black-cock by

Athenaeus (ix. p. 398). The rivers must have pro­

vided tlie inhabitants with abundance of fish. The

ancients do not speak of any metals found in Pannonia,

either because the mines were not worked, or be­

cause the metals imported from Pannonia were

vaguely said to come from Noricum, where mining

was carried on to a great extent.

The inhabitants of Pannonia (Pannonii, norroVtoi,

Tldwovts, or Tlaiovfs) were a very numerous race,

which, in the war against the Romans, could send

100,000 armed men into the field. (Appian, JUyr.

2:2.) Appian (/. c. 14) states that the Romans

regarded thein as belonging to lllyricum. Some

have inferred from this that the great body of the

people were Illyrians; and some tribes, such as the

Pyrustae, Mazani, and Daesitiatae, are actually de­

scribed by some as Illyrian and by others as Pan­

