HNI& SINOPE. 1007

dr. II). It would seem to comprehend espe-

JIt tie peat plain land of Babylonia, aa dis-

fiiilvd from Assyria and Elymaia (6'e». xiv. 1),

1 p<A«My extended to the junction of the Tigris

J Eiahrates, if not as far as the Persian gulf.

m lave, without reason, confounded it with Sin-

n, the modem Smgar. [V.]

SI.SIS it..) a itotnan colony in the district of

it«i» in Armenia Minor. (PtoL v. 7. § 5.) The

•»frM mentioned by any other writer, but it is

K»ir that it may be the same place aa the one

•eh Pmcopius (dc ActL iii. 4) simply calls

t» » [L. S.]

5LNXA. 1. (S»a, Ptel t. 18. §§ 11, 12), the

• :two towns in Mesopotamia, one on the S.

inly of M»unt Masius, the other more to the

. «i the Tigria.

1 (Imi, Strab. xvi. p. 755), a mountain fcC-

• ■« Libanon. [T. H. D.]

3N(XX1A (Zamume), was the name given in

n: timea to the smallest of the three islands

'aa the Itolt di Puma. It is situated about

s*s to the XE. of l'ontia (Ponzti), the principal

of the group (Plin. iii. 6. a. 12; Mel. ii. 7. §

i [E. H. B.]

il.WPE (J.wfs-n: F.th. livvxtvi), the most

irtaat of all the Greek colonies on the coast of

Euine, was situated on a peninsula on the coast

'i^ilajnnia, at a distance of 700 stadia to the

rfCapeCarambia (Strab. xii. p. 546; Mnrcian,

J; Ktutath. ad I)wn.Ptr. 775.) It was a very

n\ place, its origin being referred to the Argo-

k ud to Sinope, the daughter of Asopus.

•Han. Kbod. ii. 947 ; Val. Flacc. v. 108.) but

Hr;opiio» themselves referred the foundation of

'dty to Autolycus, a companion of Heracles, and

tf the Argonauts, to whom they paid heroic

an (Strab. /. c). Bat this ancient town was

- %ci powerlcKs, until it received colonists from  
tM. The Milesians were in their turn dis-

bj the Cimmerians, to whom Herodotus (iv.

•mat to assign the foundation of the city;

•ben the Cimmerians were driven from Asia

*. Epheaians (in b. c. 632) recovered posses-  
taeir colory. (Scymn. 204, foil.; Anonym.

fi P. £. p. 8.) i ■ ■ leader of the first Milesian

7 * called Ambron, and the leaders of the

•t Coos and Critines; though this latter state-

•rans to be a mistake, as Eustathius and

tuns B. (a. r.) call the founder Critius, a native

t After this time Sinope soon rose to great

'aod prosperity. About the commencement of

ti"r»moe>ian War theSinopians, who were then

ml by a tyrant, Thnesileon, received assist-

ftira the Athenians; and after the expulsion of

yraot, 600 Athenian colonists were sent to

• (Pin*. PtricL 20). At the time of the

I of the Ten Thou-and under Xenophon, Sinope

• *eaiihy and flourishing city, whose dominion

W to the river Halys, and which exercised

uHuence over the tribes of Paphlau'unta and

■ticia, independently of its colonies of Cerasus,

'». and Trapezus. It was mainly owing to

MuUnce of the Sinopians, that the return -

neks were enabled to procure ships to convey

to Heracieia(Xeno[>h. A nab. r. 5. § 3; Arriau,

IP. £ p. 17; Diod. Sic. xir. 30, 32; Amm.

ixii. 8)l Strain* also acknowledges that the

i the Siaopiatis held a distinguished position

the naraj powers of the Greeks; it was

m of the tux me as far as the entrance

of the Bosporns, and divided with Byzantium the

lucrative tunny fisheries in that sea. In the time

of Ptolemy Soter, Sinope was governed by a prime,

Scydrothemis, to whom the Egyptian king sent an

embassy. (Tac. Hut. iv. 82, foil.) Its great

wealth, and above all its excellent situation, excited

the cupidity of the kings of Pontus. It was first

assailed in b. c. 220. by Mithridates IV., the great­

grandfather of Mithridates the Great, Poly bins

(iv. 56), who is our principal authority for tins

event, describes the situation of Sinope in the follow­

ing manner: It is built on a peninsula, which

advances out into the sea. The ittthmus which

connects the peninsula with the mainland is not

more than 2* stadia in breadth, and is entirely

barred by the city, which comes up close to it. but

the remainder of the peninsula stretches out tow.mis

the sea. It is quite flat and of easy access from the

town; but on the bide of the sea it is precipitous

all around, and dangerous for vessels, and presents

very few spots fit for effecting a landing. This de­

scription is confirmed by Strabo (xii. p. 545), for he

says that the city was built on the neck of the

peninsula; but he adds, that the l itter was girt all

around with rocks hollowed out in the form uf

basins. At high water these basins were filled,

and rendered the shore inaccessible, especially as

the rocks were everywhere so pointed that it was

impossible to walk on them with bare feet The

Sinopians defended themselves bravely against

Mithridates, and the timely aid of the Hhodians in

the end enabled them to compel the agre&sor to

raise the siege. Pharnaces, the successor of

Mithridates IV., was more successful. He attacked

the city unexpectedly, and finding its inhabitants

unprepared, easily overpowered it, B.C. 183. from

this time Sinope became the chief town, and the

residence of the kings of Pontus. (Strab. /. c;

Polyb. xxiv. 10.) Mithridates, sumamed Euergetcs,

the successor of Pharnaces, was 'assassinated ut

Sinope in b. c. 120 (Strab. x. p. 477). His son,

Mithridates the Great, was born and educated at

Sinope, and did much to embellish and strengthen

his birthplace: he formed a harbour on each aide of

the isthmus, built naval arsenals, and constructed

admirable reservoirs for the tunny fisheries. After

his disaster at Cyzicus, the king intrusted ttie

command of the garrison of Sinope to Bacciiides,

who acted as a cruel tyrant; and Sinope, pressed but h

from within and from without, was at last taken

by Lucullus, after a brave resistance. (Strab. L c;

Plut. Lucull. 18; Appian, Bell Mithr. 83;

Memnon, in Phot. Cod. p. 238, ed. Bekker.) Lu­

cullus treated the Sinopians themselves mildly,

having put the Pontian garrison to the sword; and

he left them in jiossessiou of all their works of art,

which embellished the city, with the except

the statue of Autolycus, a work of Slhems, and the

sphere of Billarus. (Strab. Plut. ii cc; Cic prv Ltg.

Man. 8.) Lucullus restored the city to its am ant

freedom and indejtendence. But when Pharrm es,

the son of Mithridates, had been routed at Zeia,

Caesar took Sinope under his protection, and esta­

blished Roman colonies there, as we must infer f rom

coins bearing the inscription Col. Jul. Caes. Pehx

Sinope. In the time of Strabo Sinope was still a

large, splendid, and well fortified city; fur he

describes it as surrounded by strong walls, and

adorned with fine porticoes, squares, gymiiasia. and

other public edifices. Its commerce indeed dec lined,

yet the tunny fisheries formed an inexhaustible

