SAUROMATAE. SAXA KUBBA. 925

Una (An. iii. 5. a. 9), and m crossed by the

\.|us Wey, a few miles from its mouth, by a

/>tr*taD*l the Pons Campanus, from its forming

i» fnotier of that country. [E. H.B.]

SAIWMATAE (ZawpWrou), probably the form

ntrb the root Samtat- took in the languages from

raits the information of the Greeks of the parts

iotrt Olbiopolis was derived. It is the only form

rcfid is Herodotus, who knows nothing of the later

m Sarmatae. When this latter term, however,

*rt into use, Sauromatae, especially with the  
.*-ub writers, became archaic and poetical, or

: tic This is the case in the line —

"Ultra Samromatat, fugere hinc libet," &c.

(Juv. Sat. ii. 1),

►Ifhewhere.

Tie Greeks of the Black Sea would take the

ar» from either the Scythians or the Getae; and it

pnoably to the language of the latter, that the

rsi belonged. Hence, it is a form of Samar-

■. uken from one of the eastern dialects of

■»u by the Greeks (possibly having passed

J-*u;h a Scythian medium as well) as opposed to

raatae, which is from the western parts of the

MM area, and adopted by the Humans. Its first

■! most convenient application is to the Asiatic

nth of the Sarmatians. These may be called

rnatians as well, as they are by Ptolemy. On the

Mary, it is rare, even in a Greek anthor, to

fir Nujromatae to the Sarmatians of the Panno-

■ frontier. The evidence as to the identity of

i words is superabundant. Besides the internal

•whiliry, there is the statement of Pliny—" Sar-

ser. Uraecis Sauromatae" (iv. 25).

eT«h the writers of the Augustan age the use of

two firms fluctuates. It is exceptional, how-

I Greek to write Sarmatae, or a Roman

tr-cnats*. Exceptional, however, as it is, the

■£* is frequent. Diodorus writes Sauromat:ie

44X speaking of the Asiatic branch; Slrabo

aa Sauromatae under the same circumstances;

■ vhen following Greek authorities. For the

Ura tribes be writes Sarmatae.

"rid oars the term that best suits his metre,

a; Sarwatae the preference, caeteris paribus.

,'trmaticae major Geticaeque frequentia gente ."

(7>u<. v. 7. 13.)

Jam dilici Getice Sarmaticeque lnqui."

'Ibid. v. 12. 58.)

*r daU Sauromalet piauatra bubulcus agit."

{Ibid. iii. 12. 30.)

I • .Ssnromatae of Herodotus were the occupants

Aafit. a word evidently used in a technical sense,

^-t^pa the term by which his informants trans-

[ tim Scythian or Sarmatian equivalents to our

i Mxrci; or it may = street The Bashkir

try, at the present moment, is divided into four

'j. romis. or erays, according to the countries

fork they lead. The number of these Admits

two j the fir»t being that of the Sauromatae.

i*>d on the south and west by the Tanais and

Co, and extending northwards fifteen days'

ry. The country was treeless. The second

t. that of the Budini, followed. This was

>*+A country. There is no necessity for con-

the Budini with Sarmatae, on the strength

■ir both being; occupants of a Ai{i». All that

■ ■MX of the text of Herodotus, is, that the

Scythians near Olbiopolis knew of a Ad{is of tho

Sauromatae and a Arf£is of the Budini. The former

seems to have been the north-eastern part of the

Don Kozak country, with a portion of Saratov

(iv. 21).

When Darius invaded Scythia,the Sauromatae, Ge-

loni, and Budini acted together, and in opposition to

the Agathyrsi, Neuri, Androphagi, Melanchlaeni, and

Tauri; the former agreeing to help the Scythians,

the latter to leave them to their fate. This suggests

the probability that, politically, the Admits were con­

federate districts (Herod, iv. 119).

The language of the Sauromatao was Scythian

rrith solecisms, a statement which leads to the

strange story of the Amazons (iv. 110—116), with

whom the Sauromatae were most especially con­

nected (iv. 117). The women amongst them re­

mained unmarried nntil they had slain an enemy.

The account of Hippocrates is substantially that

of Herodotus, except that be especially calls the

Sauromatae European and Scythian; though, at the

same time, different from other nations. He makes

the number, too, of enemies that the virgins must

slay before they can marry, three.

For further details, see Sahmatia. [R. G. L.]

SAVUS (Sdot or Sdovos: Save), a great and

navigable tributary of the Danube; it has its sources

in the Carnian Alps (Piln. iii. 28; Jornand. de

Beb. Get. 56), and, flowing in an eastern direction

almost parallel with the mine northern Dravus,

reaches the Danube at Singidunum. A portion of

its upper course forms the boundary between No-

ricum and Pannonia, but the whole of the lower

part of the river belongs to the southern part of

Pannonia, and some of the most important towns of

that country, as Siscia, Servitiun;, and Sirmium,

were situated on its hanks. (Strab. iv. p. 207, vii.

p. 314; Appian, iii. 22; Ptol. ii. 1.6. § I, iii. 9. § 1;

Justin, xxxii. 3, 8, 16; Claud, de Laud. Stilich. ii.

192.) [L. S.]

SAXA RUBRA (Prima Porta), a village and

station on the Flaminian Way, 9 miles from Rome

It evidently derived its name from the redness of

tho tufo rocks, which is still conspicuous in the

neighbourhood of Prima Porta. The name is

written " Ad Rubra*" in the Tabula, while Martial

calls the place simply " Rubrae;" and this form is

found also in the Jerusalem Itinerary. (Martial,iv. 64.

15; /tin. Hier. p. 612.) But the proper form of it

seems to have been Saxa Rubra, which is used both

by Livyand Cicero. Theformermentions it during the

wars of the Romans with the Veientes, in connection

with the operations on the Cremera (Liv. ii. 49);

and Cicero notices it as a place in the immediate

vicinity of Rome, where M. Antonius halted before

entering the city. (Cic. Phil. ii. 31.) It waa

there also that Antonius, the general of Vespasian,

arrived on his march upon Rome, when he leamt the

successes of the Vitelliuns and the death of Sabinus.

(Tac. Hist. iii. 79.) At a much later period also

(n. c. 32) it was the point to which Maxentius

advanced to meet Constantine previous to the battlo

at the Milvian bridge. (Vict. Caes. 40. § 23.)

We learn from Martial (I. ft), that a village had

grown up on the spot, as would naturally he the

case with a station so immediately iu the neighbour­

hood of the city.

On a hill on the right of the Via Flaminia, a

little beyond lYima Porta, are considerable ruins,

which are believed to be those of the villa of Livia,

known by the name of "Ad Gallinas," which waa

