NAZARETH. NEAPOLIS. 407

tary, and connected, by tradition, -with the tint ha­

bitation of Noah, and the descent of the patriarch

from the ark. (Comp. Joseph. Anliij. i. 35; St.

Martin. J/rst. sur t Armenie, vuLi. p. 131: Hitler,

Erdhmde, vol. z. p. 363 ; Cbesney, Exped. Euphrat.

toL i. p. 145.) "f E. B. J.]

NAZARETH (Nafaptf): Eth. Nafapijvrfj, Na-

(wpdioi), a city of Galilee, celebrated in the New

Testament as the residence of our Lord for thirty

years, before He commenced His public ministry

(S. Mart, i. 9; S. Luke, iv. 16, 29), from which

circumstance he was called a Nazarene. (S. Mark,

L 2-4, xiv. 67; & Matt. xxvi. 71.) It was appa­

rently in bad repute, even among the despised Gali­

leans themselves. {S. John, i. 46.) It was visited by

our Lord immediately on His entering on His ministry,

when an attempt was made upon His life (S. Luke,

iv. 16— 30); and He appears only to have visited it

once subsequently, again to exemplify the proverb,

that "no prophet is accepted in his country."

{S. Matt. xiit. 54—58; S. Mark, vi. 1—6.) Its

site is well described by Eusebius as over against

Lcgio, 15 miles distant from it towards the E.,

near to Mount Tabor. Its site has never been lost

in Christian times, and in all ages travellers have

made mention of it. (Roland, Palaestina, pp. 905—

907.) "* The town of Nazareth, called in Arabic

En-Nasirah, lies upon the western side of a narrow

oblong basin, extending about from SSW. to NNE.,

perhaps 20 minutes in length by 8 or 10 in breadth.

The houses stand on the lower part of the slope of

the western hill, which rises steep and high above

them. Towards the N. the hills are less high; on

the E. and S. tbey are low. In the SE. the basin

contracts, and a valley runs out narrow and winding

to the great plain." The precipitous rocky wall of

this valley is called the Mount of Precipitation. The

deration of the valley of Nazareth is given as 821

Paris feet above the sea, and that of the mountains

abore Nazareth 1500 or 1600 feet; but Dr. Robin­

son thinks this estimate too high. The houses of

the town are well built of stone. The population

amounts to about 780 taxable males, of whom 170

an Moslems; the remainder, Christians of various

denominations. {Biblical lies. voL iii. pp. 183—

185.) [G. W.]

NAZIANZUS (Nofioffiij), a town in the south­

west of Cappadocia, in the district called Gar-

sauria, 24 miles to the south-east of Arcbe-

laia. The place is not mentioned by the early

writers, and owes its celebrity to the fact that it was

the place where Gregory of Nazianzus was edu­

cated, and where he afterwards became bishop.

(Hierocl. p. 700; Socrat. Hist Eccles. iv. 11; Greg.

Naz. Vita Corn. v. 25, Epist. 50; Cone Const,

ii. p. 97; It. Ant. p. 144; It. Hieros. p. 577, where

it is tniswritten Nathiangus; comp.Diocak&arkia.)

Hamilton {Researches, vol. ii. p. 228) is inclined to

believe that the modern place called Euran Sheher,

near Haval Dere, marks the site of Nazianzus,

though others identify the village of Mimisu with

it. [L. S.]

NKAE (N«u), a small island near Lemnos, in

which Pbikctetes, according to some authorities, was

bitten by a water-snake. (Steph. B. s. v.; comp.

Antig. Caryst. Mirab. c 9.) Pliny places it be­

tween Lemnos and the Hellespont (ii. 87. s. 89).

It is called in the charts Stratia, and by the

modem Greeks "A7101 o-rpanryof, the holy war­

rior, that it, St. MichaeL (Walpole, Travels, cfc.

p. 55.)

NEAE PATRAE. [Hyfata.]

NEAETHUS (Neufci, Strab.; N^oiOot,

Theocr.; Nowufloj, Lycophr.), a river on the E.

coast of Bruttium, falling into the gulf of Ta-

rentum about 10 miles N. of Crotona, still called

the Nieto or Neto. Strabo derives its name from

the circumstance that it was here that the Trojan

women who were conducted as captives by a Greek

fleet, set fire to the ships of the victors, and thus

compelled them to settle in this part of Italy. (Strab.

vi. p. 262; Plin. iii. 11. s. 15.) It is well known that

the same legend is transferred by other writers to

many different localities, and appears to have been

one of those which gradually travelled along the

coast of Italy, in the same manner as the myths

relating to Aeneas. The form of the name Navai0o>

employed by Lycophron {Alex. 921) points evi­

dently to the same fanciful derivation (from vain

and aXSai). Theocritus alludes to the rich and va­

ried herbage which grew on its banks {Id. iv. 24),

and for which, according to a modern traveller, it

is still remarkable. (Swinburne, Travels, vol. i. p.

313.) [E. H. B.]

NEANDREIA, NEA'NDRIUM, NEANDRUS

(NedVopfia, NcavSpiov, NcwSpof: Eth. Niar&peit

or N«(w5pi€us), a town in Troas, probably founded by

Aeolians; in the time of Strabo it had disappeared,

its inhabitants, together with those of other neigh­

bouring places, having removed to Alexandreia.

(Strab. xiii. pp. 604, 606.) According to Scylax

(p. 36) and Stephanus Byz. (». r.), Neandreia was

a maritime town on the Hellespont ; and Strabo

might perhaps be suppesed to be mistaken in

placing it in the interior above Hamaxitus ; but he

is so explicit in his description, marking its dis­

tance from New Ilium at 130 stadia, that it is

scarcely possible to conceive him to be in the wrong.

Hence Leake {Asia Minor, p. 274), adopting him

as his guide, seeks the site of Neandreia in the

lower valley of the Scamander, near the modern town

of Ene. [L. S.]

NEANDRIA. [Nea.]

NEANISSUS {Htavuro-6s or Nuwrii), a town

in Armenia Minor, on the south-east of Pbreata, and

between this latter town and Diocaesareia. (Ptol. v.

6. § 14.) No further particulars are known about

the place. [L. S.]

NEA'l'OLIS, i. e. " the New City." I. In Eu­

rope. 1. (N«d»oA.ir: Eth. NfairoAmjy, Strab.

and Steph. B.; but coins hare NeovoAfrns, Neapo-

litanus: Napoli; in French and English Naples'),

one of the most considerable cities of Campania,

situated on the northern shore of the gulf called the

Crater or Sinus Cumanus, which now derives from

it the name of Bay of Naples. All ancient writers

agree in representing it as a Greek city, and a

colony of the neighbouring Cumae; but the circum­

stances of its foundation are very obscurely related.

Scymnus Chi us tells us it was founded in pursuance

of an oracle; and Strabo calls it a Cumaean culony,

but adds that it subsequently received an additional

body of Chalcidic and Athenian colonists, with some

of the settlers from the neighbouring islands of the

Pithccusae, and was on this account called Neapolis,

or the New City. (Strab. v. p. 246; Scymn. Ch. 253;

Veil. Pat. i. 4.) Its Chalcidic or Euboean origin is

repeatedly alluded to by Statius, who was himself a

native of the city {Site. i. 2. 263, ii. 2. 94, iii. 5.12);

but these expressions probably refer to its being a

colony from the Chalcidic city of Cumae. The name

itself sufficiently points to the fact that it waa

D 1> 4

