1100 TARENTUM. TABEXTUM.

I ho climate of Tarentum, though justly praised

by Horace lor its mildness, was generally reckoned

butt and enervating, and was considered as in some

decree the cause of the luxurious and effeminate

habits ascribed to the inhabitants (M molle Taren­

tum," Hor. Sat. ii. 4. 34; M iinbelle Tarentum," Id.

Ep, i. 7. 45.) It is probable that tliis charge,

as in many other cases, was greatly exaggerated;

bii* there is no re:isou to doubt that the 1 arentines,

like almost all the other Greeks who became a

manufacturing and commercial people, indulged in a

degree of luxury far exceeding that of the ruder

nations of Central Italy. The wealth and opulence

t«» which they attained in the 4th century n. c. na­

turally tended to aggravate these evils, and the Ta­

rentines are represented as at the time of the arrival

of Pyrin ua enfeebled and degraded by luxurious in­

dulgences, and devoted almost exclusively to the

pursuit of pleasure. To such an excess was this

carried that we are told the number of their annual

festivals exceeded that of the days of the year.

(Theopomp. ap. A then. iv. p. 166; Clcarch. op.

Atken. xii. p. 522 ; Strab. vi. p. 2S0; Aelian, V.U.

xii. 30.) Juvenal alludes to their love of feasting

and pleasure when he calls it "coronalum ac petu-

lana madidumque Tarentum'' (vi. 297). But it is

certain, as already observed, that they were not in­

capable of war: they furnished a considerable body

of troops to the army of Pyrrhui; and in the

sea-fight with the Roman fleet off the entrance

of the harbour, during the Second Punic War,

they displayed both courage and skill in naval

combat. (Liv. xxvi. 39.) In the time of their

greatest power, according to Strabo, they could send

into the field an army of 30,000 foot and 3000

horse, besides a body of 1000 select cavalry called

Ilipparchs. (Strab. vi. p. 2S0.) The Tarcntine

light cavalry was indeed celebrated throughout

Greece, so that they gave name to a particular

description of cavalry, which are mentioned under

the name of Tarentines (Toporru'Oi), in the armies

of Alexander the Great and his successors; and the

appellation continued in use down to the period of

the. Roman Empire. (Arrian, A nub.; Id. Tact. 4;

I'ol. iv. 7". xi. 12 ; Liv. xxxv. 28; Aelian, Tact.

2. p. 14 : Suidas, s. v. Tapavrivoi.) It is probable,

however, that these may have been always recruited

in great part among the neighbouring Messapians

and Sallentines, who also excelled as light horsemen.

Willi their habits of luxury the Tarentines un­

doubtedly combined the refinements of the arts usu­

ally associated with it, and were diligent cultivators

of the fine arts. The great variety and beauty of

their cuius is, even at the present day, a sufficient

proof of this, while the extraordinary numbers of

them which are still found in the S. of Italy attest

the wealth of the city. Ancient writers also speak

of the numbers of pictures, statues, and other works

of art with which the city was adorned, and of which

a considerable number were transported to Rome.

(Klor.i.18; Slrab.vi.p.278; Liv.xxvii. 16.) Among

these the most remarkable were the colossal statue

of Jupiter, mentioned by Strabo (/. c), and which

was apparently still standing in the Agora in his

time: the bronze statue of Hercules by Lysippus

already noticed; and a statue of Victory, which was

also carried to Home, where it became one of the

chief ornaments of the Curia Julia. (Dion Cass.

Ii. 22.) Nor were the Tarentines deficient in the

cultivation of literature. In addition to Archytas,

the Pythagorean philosopher, celebrated for his

mathematical attainments and discoveries

held at Tarentum a place somewhat smirtsoat

of Pericles at Athens (I>iog. L&ert r£ 4; Sea

s. v. 'ApxvTi* ; Athen. xii. p. 545), -

the celebrated musician and disciple d t

was a native of Tarentum; as wtD as T

the dramatic poet, who became the fjonierrfia

species of burlesque drama which i

cultivated by Sopater and other i

$. v. 'PirtW.) It was from Tarentam alsstbtd

Komans received the first rudiments of tlx n

drama, Livius Andronicoa, their earnest t

poet, having been a Greek of Tirratam, i

taken prisoner when the city fell into \

(Cic. tirut. 18.)

Poly o.us tells us that Tarentnm retiinaii

traces of its Lacedaemonian orieio in kcal ■

and customs, which still subsisted in bis dir.!

was the tomb of Hyacinthus already BHStildj

viii. SO): the river Galaesus also was caliei fed

the Kurotas (lb. 35), though the native atav

mate 1J prevailed. Another custom wbkbfara

as peculiar was that if burying their doi rzsa |

the walls of the city, so that a cuo&ideraak I

within the walls was occupied by a neeraaeia

30.) This custom he ascribes to an crabe, I

may have arisen (as was the c

and Syracuse) from the increase ot the oi% fl

led to the original necropolis being i

the walls.

The name of Tarentum (Taras) i

be derived from a river of the u

(Tdpas). which is noticed by several i

(Sleph. B. #. r. Tdsas ; Pans, x. 10. § !)

is commonly identified with a deep, bei i

stream, which flows into the sem ab ei 4 I

W. of the entrance of the harbour of Ta--eati

is still called Tara, though corrupted fejtltl

santry into Fiume at Terra. (K- xioe.i'

p. 281; Swinburne, vol. L p. 271.) The n

brated stream of the Gala£SI'S flowed intol

Piccolo, or harbour of Tarentum on it* N-

is commonly identified with the small streamt^B

Le Citivzze, an old church near which >ull*sj

the name of Sta Maria di Gakso. [G-UiB^H

Another locality in the immediate DSftgaattJsfc^H

Tarentum, the name of which is

that of the city by Horace, is AtLos. a b2l*s

celebrated for the excellence of its i

identified by local topographers, tboogaaai

slight grounds, with &'sloping ridge on tail

shore about 8 miles SK. of Tarer.tnm, a ]

which bears the name of Monte Melane, •

to be a corruption of Aulone [Avlos].

obscure name, which is repeatedly menti 1

nection with Tarentum, is that of Sa TV Rita (

piov). From the introdaction of this c

oracle alleged to have been given to

(Strab. vi. p. 279), it seems probable that it <

old native name, but it is not clear that f

was a town or eren village of the name. It ■

probable that it was that of a tract or district t

neighbourhood of Tarentum. Stephanos ef I

tium distinctly calls it x*Va wA*>*r P

(s. r. San'jpioi'); and the authority of Serriaa,^

calls it a city (civitaa) near Tarentum, is wt *"*

mucli in comparison. There wj

of the name in historical times. YirjrUa

epithet " Saturiuni" (as an adjective) to T*

itself (Georg. ii. 197; Serr. ad loc.: mas? taw

uieutators, however, consider " aatnri" mxn *sBa*"

