MAURETANIA. 207 MAURETANIA.

§ 3; Sail Jug. 19; Pomp. Mela, i. 4. § 3; Lit. xxi.

22, xxviii. 17; Herat. Corn. i. 22. 2, ii. 6. 3, lit.

10. IS; Tac. Ann. ii. 52, iv. 523, xiv. 28, Hist. i.

78, ii. 58, iv. 50; Lucan, iv. 678; Jut. t. 53, Ti.

337; Flor. iii. 1, it. 2); hence the name Maure-

ta.hu (the proper form-as it appears in inscrip­

tions, Orelli, Inter. 485, 3570, 3672; and on coins,

Erkhel, vol. ti. p. 48; comp. Tzchucke, ad Pomp.

Mela. i. 5. § 1) or Mauritania (Wlavpnavia, Ptol.

iT. 1. §2; Caes. B. C. i. 6, 39; Hirt. B. Afr. 22;

Pomp. Mela, i. 5; Pun. t. 1; Eutrop. iT. 27, viii. 5;

Flor. iv. (the MSS. and printed editions vary be­

tween this form and that of Manretania); tj Mau-

foivuer yfi, Strab. p. 827). These Moors, who

must not be considered as a different race from the

Xumidians, but as a tribe belonging to the same

stock, were represented by Sallust (Jug. 21) as a

remnant of the army of Hercules, and by Procopius

(S. V. ii. 10) as the posterity of the Cananaeans

who fled from the robber (ajjot^s) Joshua; he

quotes two columns with a Phoenician inscription.

Procopius has been supposed to be the only, or at

fea*t the most ancient, author who mentions tills

UBcripti'iin, and the invention of it has been attri­

buted to himself; it occurs, howeTer, in the history

of Mows of Chorene (i. 18), who wrote more than

a century before Procopius. The same inscription

U mentioned by Suidas (*. v. Xaviay), who probably

qontes from Procopius. According to most of the

Arabian writers, who adopted a nearly similar tradi­

tion, the indigenous inhabitants of N. Africa were

the people of Palestine, expelled by David, who

pftssed into Africa under the guidance of Goiiah,

»him they call Djaluut. (St Martin, Le Beau, Bos

Empire, vol. xi. p. 328; comp. Gibbon, c xli.)

Thew traditions, though so palpably fabulous, open

> field to conjecture. Without entering into this, it

swms certain that the Berber* or Berebers, from

wb'-m it has been conjectured that N. Africa received

the name of Barbary or Barbaria, and whose lan-

Eaa^e has been preserved in remote mountainous

tracts, as well as in the distant regions of the desert,

»re the representatives of the ancient inhabitants of

JUnre'ania. (Comp. Prichard, Physical Hist, of

ttmiind. vol ii. pp. 15—43.) Tho gentile name

of the Berbers—Amazigh, " the noble language"—

» fooitd, according to an ebservation of Castiglione,

even in Herodotus (iv. 191, ed. Bahr).— where the

correct fjrm is Mazyes (Mafiies, Hecataeus, ap.

Slrpk B. s. r.), which occurs in the MSS., while

the printed editions erroneously give Mofutj (Nic-

bohr, Led. on Arte. Ethnog. and Geog. vol. ii.

p. 334), — as well as in the later Mazices of Am-

mimns Marcellinus (xxix. 5; Le Beau, Bos Em-

fin, ToL iii. p. 471; comp. Gibbon, c xxv.).

II. Physical Geography.

Fran the extraordinary capabilities of the soil —

«w vast cum plain extending from the foot of Atlas

to the shores of the Atlantic — Mauretania was

formerly the granary of the world. (I'liu. XTiii. 20.)

Under a bigoted and fanatical goTernment, the land

that might give food to millions, is now covered

woh weeds. Throughout the plains, which rise by

•kn* great steps to the mountains, there is great

*«nt of wood; even on tlie skirts of the Atlas, tho  
timber does not reach any great size — nothing to

justify the expression of Pliny (" opacum nemo-

psumqiie v. 1 ; comp. Joum. Geog. Soc. vol. i. pp.

123—155; Barth. Wanderungen).

SUabo(xTii. pp. 826—832) has given an account

of the productions of Manretania, marvellous enough,

in some particulars, as where he describes weasels as

largo as cats, and leeches 10 ft. long; and among

other animals the crocodile, which there can scarcely

be any river of Morocco capable of nourishing, even

if the climate were to permit it. (In Aegypt, where

the average heat is equal to that of Senegambia, the

crocodile is seldom seen so low as Siouf) Pliny

(viii. 1) agrees with Strabo (p. 827) in asserting

that Mauretania produced elephants. As the whole

of Barbary is more European than African, it may

be doubted whether the elephant, which is no longer

found there, was ever indigenous, though it may

have been naturalised by the Carthaginians, to

whom elephants were of importance, as part of their

military establishment. Appian (B. P. 9) says

that when preparing for their last war with the

Romans, they sent Hssdrubal, son of Gisco, to hunt

elephants; he could have hardly gone into AethiopiA

for this purpose. Shaw (Trav. p. 258; Jackson,

Morocco, p. 55) confirms, in great measure, the

statements of Strabo (p. 830) and of Aelian (II. A.

iii. 136, vi. 20) about the scorpion and the "pha-

langium," a species of the "arachnidao." The "so-

litanns," of which Varro (de lie Rusiica, iv. 14. § 4;

Plin. ix. 82) gives so wonderful an account, has

not been identified. Copper is still worked as in

the days of Strabo (p. 830), and the natives con­

tinue to preserve the grain, legumes, and other pro­

duce of their husbandry in "matmoures," or conical

excavations in the ground, as recorded by Pliny

(xviii. 73; Shaw, p. 221).

Mauretania, which may be described generally ns

the highlands of N. Africa,elevates itself like an island

between the Mediterranean, the Atlantic, and the

great ocean of sand which cuts it off towards the S. and

E. This " plateau " separates itself from the rest of

Africa, and approximates, in the form and structure,

the height, and arrangement of its elevated masses, to

the system of mountains in the Spanish peninsula,

of which, if the straits of the Mediterranean were

dried up, it would form a part. A description of

these Atlantic highlands is given in the article

AT1.AS.

Many rivers flow from this great range, and

fall into the Mediterranean, and the Atlantic. Of

these, the most important on the N. coast were,

in a direction from E. to W., the Ampsaoa, Usak,

Chinalaph, and Mulucha; on the W. coast, in a

direction from NE.to SW., the Suecr.Sai^,Phutii,

and Lixus.

The ci»st-line, after passing the Ampsaga ( Wad-

eUKibir) and Sinus Numidicus, has the harbours

Ioii-gius (Jijeli), Saldae Ps. (Bujeiyah), and

Rusuci/rrium (TeiRez). Weighing from Algiers,

and passing Iomnitm (Ras-al~Kanatir), to stand

towards the W., there is a rocky and precipitous

coast, mostly bold, in which in succession were the

ports and creeks Iol (Zershell), Cartenna (Tenez),

MuRt.STAOA (Mostaghanom), Arsenaria (Ar-

zdn), Qijiza (Wahran or Oran); Portus Mag­

nus (Marsa Kibir), within Mktagonium Prom.

(Ras-al Harsbah); and Acra (Ishgiin). The

Muluciia falls into the Gulf of Melilah of tho

charts. About 10 miles to the NW. of this river

lay the Tres Insulae (Zaphran or Ja'ferH

group); about 30 miles distant from these

rocks, on a NW. by W. rhumb, was Rusadir

Prom. (Cup Tres Forcas of the Spanish pilots,

or lias-utl-Dehor of the natives), and in the bight

farmed between it and the Mulucha stood Kisauik

