MARCIUAXA. 271 MARCOMANNI.

Fritigern and the Roman governor of Marcianopolis,

Lapicimu, — which became the signal of a long

and destructive war. (Amni. Marc xxxi. 5. § 4,

Zoaim. iv. 10,11.) Marcianopolis afterwards became

1'eristhlsva or Presthlava (Yl<ptaQ\&6a), the capital

at' the Bulgarian kingdom, which was taken a. d.

971 by Swiatoslaff the Russian, and again reduced j

by John Zimisces, when 8500 Russians were put to

the sword, and the sons of the Bulgarian king

rescued from an ignominious prison, and invested with

a nominal diadem. (Gibbon, c, Iv.; Sehafarik, Slav.

Alt vol. ii. pp. 187, foil. 216; Finlay, Byzantine

Empire, pp. 408—413.) The site of the ancient

town must be sought for in the neighbourhood nfPra-

radt. For coins of Marcianopolis, both autonomous

and imperial, see Eckhel, vol. ii. p. 15. [E. B. J.J

MAKCILIA'N'A, a station on the ViaPopillia, in

Locania, where, according to the Tabula, that road

(which led directly S. from Campania into Brut-

liom) was joined by a branch from Potentia. The

nine is corrupted both in the Tabula and in the

Aiitocine Itinerary; but there can be no doubt that

the place meant is the same called by Cassiodorus

* Narcilianam," which was a kind of suburb of the  
town of Consilinum, where a great fair was annually

held. (ftm. Ant. p. 110; Tab. Pent; Cassiod. Varr.

TiiL 33.) The site is still called Marciliana, in the

railev of the Tanagro, between La Sala and Padula.

(Bamanelli, voL i. p. 405.) [E. H. B.]

MARCI'XA (MapKtva), a town of Campania, in

the district of the Picentini, situated on the N. shore

of the gulf of Posidonia, between the Sireuusae In­

take and the mouth of the :>ilarus. (Strab.v. p. 231.)

It a mentioned by no writer except Strabo, wlio tells

us that it was a colony founded by the Tyrrhenians,

but subsequently occupied, and in his day still in­

habited, by the Samuites. As he adds that the dis­

tance from thence through Nuceria to Pompeii was

not more than 120 stadia (15 Roman miles), he

appears to have regarded this as the point from

whence the passage of the isthmus (as he calls it)

between the two bays began; and it may therefore

be placed with some plausibility at Vietri. (Cluver,

ItaL p. 1190; Romanelli, vol. iii. p. 614.) Some an-

cient remains have been discovered thero, though

these may seem to indicate the site of Roman villas

nther than of a town. [K. 11. It. J

MATJCIUS MONS (to MdpKiov &pos) was, ac­

cording to Plutarch, the name of the place which

*» the scene of a great defeat of the Volscians and  
L«mj bv Camilla? in the year after the taking of

Some by the Gauls B.C. 389. (Plut. Camili 33,

34.) Diodornj, who calls it simply Marcius or

Mareinm (to KaXovpevov VldpKtov, xiv. 107), tells

as it was 200 stadia from Some; and Livy, who

»ri>s the name ** ad Mecium," says it was near

Lvnvium. (Lit. vi. 2.) The exact site cannot be

d*i#mtined. Some of the older topographers speak

•f * hill called Coile Marzo, but no such place is

Mm:l<m modern maps; and Gell suggests the Colle

H Dae Torri as the jnost probable localitv. (Gell,

*«/>. o/A«w, p. 311.) [E.H. B.]

MARCODAVA (Mapwd'oW, Ptol. iii. 8. § 7), a

town of D-wia, the remains erf which have been found

W Thorda. (S"*tini, Yiaggio, p. 105.) [E.B.J.J

MARCODU'RUM, in North Gallia. Some of the

courts rf the Ulm were cut to pieces by the troops

of Cmfis at Marcodurum, which as Tacitus observes

{Hut. it. 28) is a long way from the bank of the

&ut*. The termination durum indicates a place on

* river; rod Marcodurum seems to be Uuren on the

Roei\ The Frank kings are said to have had a

palace there, named Duria Villa or Dura. [G. L.]

MARCOMAGUS, a place in North Gallia on a

road from Augusta Trevirorurn (Treves) to Agrip-

pina Civitas (Cologne*). It appears both in the Anto-

nine ltin. and in the T;ible. Marcomagus is Mar-

niagen. It is 28 or 31 M. P. from Cologne, fur the

numbers are not certain. [G. L.]

MARCOMANNI (MapKOfi&vvoi, MapKOfi(j.&voiy

or MapKOfiauoi), a name frequently occurring in the

ancient history of Germany, sometimes as a mere

appellative, and sometimes as a proper name of a

distinct nation. Its meaning is border-men or

march-men, and as such it might be applied to any

tribe or tribes inhabiting and defending a border

country. Hence we must be prepared to find Mar-

comanni both on the western and southern frontiers

of Germany; and they might also have existed in the

east, or on any other frontier. Marcomanni are first

mentioned in history among the tribes with which

Ariovistus had invaded Gaul, and which were

defeated and driven back across the Rhine by

J. Caesar, b. c. 58 (Caes. Bell. Gall i. 51). These

Marcomanni, therefore, appear to have been the

mafchmen on the Rhenish frontier, perhaps about

the lower part of the Main. They are again

mentioned during the campaigns of Drusus in

Germany, from b. c 12 to 9, by Floras (iv. 12),

who seems to place them somewhat further in the

interior. Only a few years later, we hear of a

powerful Marcomannian kingdom in Boiohemum or

Bohemia, governed by Maroboduus; and we might

be inclined to regard these Marcomanni as quite a

different people from those on the Rhine and Main,—

that is, as the marchinen on the southern frontier,—

were it not that we are expressly told by Tacitus

(Germ. 42), Paterculus (ii. 108), and Strabo (vii.

p. 290), that their king Maroboduus had emigrated

with them from the west, and that, after expelling

the Celtic Boh from Bohemia, he established himself

and his Marcomanni in that country. (Comp.

Ptol. ii. 11. § 25.) If we remember that the

kingdom of the Marcomanni in Bohemia was fully

organised as early as A. i>. 6, when Tiberius was

preparing for an expedition against it, it must bo

owned that Maroboduus, whose work it was, must

have been a man of unusual ability and energy.

Henceforth the name of the Marcomanni appears in

history as a national name, though ethnologically it

was not peculiar to any particular tribe, but was

given to all the different tribes which the Marcoman­

nian conqueror had united under his rule. The

neighbouring nations whom it was impossible to

subdue were secured by treaties, and thus was

formed what may be termed the great Marconiannic

confedcracy, the object of which was to defend

Germany aeainst the Romans in Pannonia. But the

Marcomanni soon also came into collision with

another German confederation, that of the Cherasci,

who regarded the powerful empire of Maroboduus as

not less dangerous to the liberty of the German

tribes than the aggressive policy of the Romans. In

the ensuing contest, A. d. 17. the Marcomanni were

humbled by the Cherasci and their allies, and Maro-

bodu'js implored the assistance of the emperor

Tiberius. The aid was refused, but Drusus was

sent to mediate p?ace between the hostile powers.

(Tac. Ann. ii. 45, 46.) During this mediation,

however, the Romans seem to have stirred up other

enemies against the Marcomanni; for two years laler,

A. v. 19, Catualda, a young chief of the Goth ones,

