TinuR. 12fl.l TIBUR.

ml ky; and the remains at the cathedral may have

tloocnl to a third. It is pretty certain, however,

ill the Koran) of Tibur was near the cathedral, and

rgpied the aite of the present Piazza dell Ormo

ud its environs, as appears from a Ball of Pope

moiict VII. in the year 978, referred to by

ditllt in his llalia Sacra (t. i. p. 1306). and co­

rd by Marini (Paperi Diplomatic!, p. 316). In

ii>. Hull, the object of which was to determine the

this and jurisdiction of the bishop of Tivoli, many

«ra in Ike town are mentioned by their ancient

imts: as the Forum, the Vicus Fatricius, the Ku-

lAu, the Porta Major, the Porta Obscura, the walls,

e patrrn of Vesta, the district of Castrmn Vetus,

r The round temple at the cathedral belonged

trrfote to the Forum, as well as the crypto-por-

mi, now called Porto di Ercole in the street del

*ffio. The exterior of this presents ten closed  
elm about 200 feet in length, which still retain

of the red plaster with which they were co­

red. Each arch has three loopholes to serve as

nuVwt. The interior is divided into two apart-

lots or halls, by a row of twenty-eight slender

krs. Traces of arabesque painting on a black

iund may still be seen. The mode of building

iws it to be of the same period as the circular

mint.

la that part of the city called Castro Vetere,

ic.'i Xibby identifies with the arx, are two temples,

roand, the other oblong, both of which liave

0 variously identified. The round one, a charm-

rWic of antiquity, is commonly regarded as the

.pie of the Sibyl. We know that the tenth and

: of the Sibyls, whose name was Albnnen, was

>Jiipf«d at Tibur (Varro, ap. Lactant. de Falsa

11. 6; cf. Jeifdn; tj Titvvprta vvouan 'AAffou-

a. Said, p. 3302 Gaisf.); and Horace evidently

i<irs to her when lie speaks of the " domus Albu-

r retonantia" at that place. (Od. \. 7.12.) It can

reely be doubted therefore that she had a fane at

ur. Bat Kibby is of opinion that the epithet of

"onsutis," which alludes to the noise of the wa-

*U, is inapplicable to the situation of the round  
pie on the cliff ; for though it immediately over-

1 the fall, before the recent diversion of the stream,

cataract, as before shown, must in the time of

see have been lower down the river. This ob-

i n Inwever, may perhaps be considered as pressing

wiical epithet rather too closely; nor is there

thing to show how far the fall may have been

<vrd by the catastrophe described by the younger

y. Some writers have ascribed the temple to

ta, an opinion which has two circumstances in its

ur: first, we know that Vesta was worshipped

Tiber, from inscriptions recording the Vestal

ins of the Tiburtini; secondly, the temples of

I were roan J. like the celebrated one near the

-an forum. Unfortunately, however, for this  
•thesis, the Bull of Pope Benedict before referred

ww j that the district of Vesta was on the op-

it side of the river. Hence Nibby (Dintomi,

■ 205) regards the building in question as the

« of Hercules Saxanus. We know that round

4es were sometimes erected to that deity, as in the

m Boarium at Rome; and the epithet of Saxanus

j4.rable tu the one in question, from its beingseated

rock. It may be observed, however, that Saxanus

-t a usual derivative form from Saxum; and on  
•bate it may perhaps be as satisfactory to follow

la.irnl tradition which ascribes the temple to the

L It ia of the style called peripteral, or hav­

ing columns all round. These were originally

eighteen in number, but only ten now remain, of

which seven are isolated and three are built into the

wall of a modem structure; but in such a manner

that the sides towards the cell are visible. The

columns are of travertine, of the Corinthian order,

and channelled; hence the temple bears considerable

resemblance to that in the Forum Boarium at ltome.

According to the Bull before quoted, it was, in the

10th century, a church dedicated to the Virgin Mary.

The same was the case with the adjoining temple,

which was dedicated to S. George. This building

is also principally of travertino. It has four columns

in front, now hidden by modern houses, and six at

each side, five of which are built into the walls of the

cells to the extent of two-thirds of their circum­

ference. Hence it was of the style called prostylos

tetrastylos pseudo-periuteros. The columns are of

the Ionic order. From an inscription found near it,

some writers have inferred that the temple was de­

dicated to the worship of Drusilla, the sister of Ca­

ligula: but the style of building is considerably

earlier, and belongs to the age of Sulla. Others have

called it the temple of the SibyL Professor Kibby

(Diatorni, iii. p. 210) started a novel hypothesis,

and regarded it as the temple of Tiburtus, or Ti-

bumus. It is certain that the eponymous founder

of the city enjoyed divine honours in it, as we see

from Horace ('•• Tibnmi lucus," Od. i. 7. 13) and

Statins (" ilia reenbat Tibumus in umbra," Heir. i. 3.

74). But these expressions refer to a sarred grove

or revivor, probably with a shrine, or perhaps merely

an altar, and therefore situated, in all likelihood, in

the outskirts of the town, and not in a narrow crowded

place like the arx. And we must here point out a

little inconsistency into which the learned professor

has fallen: for whilst he objects to the round

temple being called that of Vesta, on the ground that

it was not within hearing of the waterfall, when that

was in its ancient state, yet be regards the square

one, which immediately adjoins it, as the temple

of Tihumus, because it was close to the cataract.

On the whole, therefore, we must for the present

content ourselves with one of the ancient names for

this building, or else, which may perhaps be the

safer course, leave it altogether unidentified.

The catastrophe of 1826 brought to light the re­

mains of a bridge; and another still more perfect

one was discovered in 1832, in the progress of the

works for diverting the course of the river. At llie

same time the workmen came upon a small tomb,

between the Via Valeria and the banks of the river,

containing several skeletons and monumental stones.

Among these was a cenotaph to Senecio, who was

consul for the fourth time A. D. 107, and several

inscriptions. Under this tomb was an ancient aque­

duct, intended to distribute the waters of the Auio

among the adjacent villas.

There are no other remains in the town except

some fine opus reticulatutn et Uterinum, near the

church of S. Andrea. At this spot were discovered,

in 1778, some large and handsome columns with

Corinthian capitals, and also the pedestal of a statue

to Fur. Maecius Graccus, with an inscription con­

necting it with some embellishment of the baths.

Hence we may conclude that the thermae were si­

tuated here.

Outside the city, on the Via Constantiana, is the

building known as the temple of Tussis, for which

appellation, however, no authority exjata. Kxtern-

nlly it is of an octagon form, but round inside.

4 II 2

