224 LYCIA LYCH

son of Pandion, being driven liy his brother Acgens

fi-um Attica, found a place <if refuge in Milyas, the

kingdom of Sarpedou, who now changed the name

of his dominion into Lycia, to honour his friend

Lycos. (Comp. Strab. xiv. p. 667; and Steph. B.

: r. TptuiAT), who states, on the authority of the

historian Alexander, that Bellerophontes changed

the name of Tn-milae into that of Lycians.) In

later times the name Milyas still existed, but was

confined to the northern and more mountainous

jxirts of the country, into which the original inha­

bitants of the country had been driven by the con­

querors, and where tliey were known under the

name of the Milyae. [Milyas.] Strabo, in his

desire to look upon Humer as an infallible authority

in historical and geographical mutters, is inclined to

disbelieve the tradition related by Herodotus, as

irreconcilable with the poet, who, he conceives,

meant by the Solymi no other people than that

which in later times bore the name of Milyae.

Whatever we may think of the cause of the change

of name from Milyas to Lycia, it is probable that it

must have originated in the conquest of the country

by foreigners, and that this conquest belongs to an

earlier date than the composition of the Homeric

poems. But although the inhabitants of the country

had changed their own name, they continued as late

as the time of Herodotus to be called Termilae by

their neighbours.

2. Phyiical Character of the Country.—All Lycia

is a mountainous country, — the range of Mount

Taurus in the north sending forth numerous

branches to the south, which generally slope down

as they approach the sea, and terminate in pro­

montories. The principal of these branches are,

mounts Daeiiala, Craciis, Massicytes (rising in

some parts to a height of 10,000 feet), and Climax.

But, notwithstanding its mountainous cluiracter,

Lycia was by no means an unfertile country, for it

produced wine, com, and all the other lruits of Asia

Minor; its cedars, firs, and plane trees, were par-

ticuLirly celebrated. (Plin. II A*, xii. 5.) Among

the products peculiar to it, we may mention a par­

ticularly soft kind of sponge found near Anti-

phellus, and a K|iecies of chalk, which possessed

medicinal properties. Lycia also contained springs

of naphtha, which attest its volcanic character; of

which other proofs also are mentioned, for, not far

from the rock called Deliktaih, there is a per|ietual

fire issuing from the ground, which is supposed to

have given rise to the story of the Chimaera, but is

ill reality nothing but a stream of inflammable gas

issuing from the crevices of the rocks, as is the case

in several parts of the Apennines. Must of the

rivers of Lycia flow in a southern direction, and the

most important of them are the Xantiu'S, in the

west, and tiic Limykis or Aiucanius, in the east.

It also has two considerable lakes; one, now called

Avian trttle, ia formed by the confluence of several

rivers, another, in the more northern part, situated

in a hollow among high mountains, it called Yauer

Gule.

3. The InhubitanU if I.ycin.— The most ancient

inhabitants of Lycia, as we have seen above, were

the Solymi, who are generally believed to have been

a Phoenician or Semitic race We are not informed

why these Solymi were called Termilae; bat the

probability is that the Solymi and the Termilae

^».two ditfereut tribes occupying different parts

1*ountry at the same time, and that while the

tc driven into the northern mountains by

the invader", the Termilae were subdued, and re­

ceived from their conquerors the name of LycUn*.

This seems clearly to follow from the account of

Herodotus and the fragments quoted by Stephanua

Byzantinus. The Tremilae were no doubt as fbmm

to the Hellenic stock of nations as the S>lvmi. 1 i.<-

conquerors of the Tremibie, that is the Lycians

proper, are said to have come from Crete, which.

before its occupation by the Dorians, was inhabited

by barbarous or non-Hellenic tribes, whence it fallows

that the conquering Lycians must likewise bare

been barbarians. Their strugeles with the Solymi

appear to have lasted long, and to have been T*ry

severe, for Bellcrophon and other mythical berws

are described as having fought against the warlike

Solymi. (Horn. //. vi. 184, 204, Od. r. 283.)

From the recently discovered Lycian inscriptions,

composed in an alphabet partly Greek and l-artly

foreign, it has been inferred that, after the con^uc.:

of Lycia by the Persians, the great body of the ra­

tion changed its character, at least in some part*,

which are supposed to have then been occupied

by Persians; and this theory is believed to derive

support from the Lycian inscriptions, which Mr.

Sharpe and others believe to contain a language akia

to the Zend. But this hypothesis is devoid uf all

foundation, for we never find that the Persians colo­

nised the countries conquered by them, and the Lycian

language is as yet utterly unknown. All we can say

is, that the Lycian alphabet seems to be a variety of

the Gracco-Phocnician or Graeco-Semitic character,

and that there is no evidence to show that in the

historical ages the Lycians changed their character as

a nation. They were and remained barbarians in tl.e

Greek sense, though they adopted and practUnl to

a great extent the arts and modes of civilised fife,

such as they existed among tlieir Greek ceightaora.

4. Imtitutions, <j-c. of the Lyciant. — In the Ho­

meric poems the Lycians appear as governed bv kinc*

(Horn. II. vi. 173 ; Diet, of Uiogr.i. r. Sarpetjox);

but in the historical times we find Lycia as a con­

federation of free cities, with a constitution mote

wisely framed perhaps than any other in all ar:i-

quity. An authentic account of this ronstitutin

has been preserved by Strabo. It was the pohliraj

unity among the towns of Lycia that made the

country strong, and enabled it to maintain its freedom

against the encroachments of Croesus, while all the

surrounding nations were comjielled to own hia sway.

When and by whom this federal constitution »»s

devised, we arc not informed, but it reflects great

credit upon the political wisdom of the Lynns.

They were a peaceable and well-comlucted people,

and took no ]art in the piracy of their maritime

neighbours, but remained faithlul to their ancient

institutions, and on tins account were allowed the

enjoyment of tlieir free constitution by the Romans.

It was under the dominion of Hume that Strabo saw

its working. The confederacy then consisted of S3

towns, from which the deputies met inapUKe fixed cq>4i

each time by common consent. The six largest towns,

Xamtul-s,Patara, Pi»ARA,OLTkiri-a,MrKjL,an»l

Tub, had each three votes at the common diet, lbs

towns of more moderate size had two, and the re­

maining small places one vote each. The executive

of the confederacy was in the hand of a magistrate

called Lyciareh (Aixrisipxn'), whose elertiia was

the first business of the congress, and after wheat

the other officers of the cor.feJersry were chosen.

The judges, also, as well as the magistrates, were

elected from each city according to the number of

