11, 2

between Rome and the East. Cicero speaks of it as

posita in f/remio imperii nostri. It increased in

size and rObC in importance with the consolidation of

the Kmpire. Strabo in the first century, ami Luc i an

in the second, speak in strong language of the

amount of its population. The supreme magistrates

(apparently six in number) who ruled in Thessa-

ionica as a free city of the Empire were entitled

TtoAirapxai, as we learn from the remarkable co­

incidence of St. Luke's language (Act. Ap. xvii. 6)

with an inscription on the Yarddr pate. (Bbckh,

1967. Belley mentions another inscription con­

taining the bum term.) In Ad, Ap. xvii. 5, the

'jf.ii.os is mentioned which formed part of the con­

stitution of the city. Tafel thinks that it had a

($ou\}i also.

During the first three centuries of the Christian

era, Thessalonica was the capital of the whole coun­

try between the Adriatic and tiie Black Sea ; and

even after the founding uf Constantinople it re­

mained practically the metropolis of Greece. Mace­

donia, and Illyricum. In the middle of the third

century, as we learn from coins, it was made a

Human cohmia; perhaps with the view of strength­

ening this position against the barbarian invasions,

which now became threatening. Thessalonica was

the great safeguard of the Empire during the first

shock of the Gothic inroads. Constantios passed

some time here after his victory over the Sannatians;

and perhaps the second arch, which is mentioned

below, was a commemoration of this victory : lie is

said also by Zosirnus (ii. p. 86, ed. Bonn) to have

constructed the port, by which we are, no doubt,

to understand that he repaired and improved it

after a time of comparative neglect. Passing by

the dreadful massacre by Theodosios (Gibbon's

Jiinne, ch. x.wii.), we come to the Sclavonic wars,

of which the Gothic wars were only the prelude,

and the brunt of which was successfully borne by

Thessalonica from the middle of the sixth century

to the latter part of the eighth. The history of

these six Sclavonic wars, and their relation to Thes­

salonica, has been elaborated with great care by

Tafel.

In the course of the Middle Ages Thessalonica was

three times taken ; and its history during this period

is thus conveniently divided into three stages. On

Sunday, July 29th, 904, the Saracen fleet appeared

before the city, which was stormed after a few days1

righting. The slaughter of the citizens was dread­

ful, and vast numbers were sold in the various

slave-markets of the Levant. The story of these

events is tuld by Jo. Cameiiiata, who was crozier-

bearer to the nrclibishop of Thessalonica. From his

narrative it lias been inferred that the population of

the city at this time must have been 22U.UOO. (Ve

Exc'tdio Thessidonircusi, in the volume cntit.

Th< nphmu g Continuutm of thei|fl*JM|L of the B

writers, 1838.) The neoM »stronte

TheasaJonica was

Normans of Sicily.,

round the S

marched by

of the Byz. writers. (Dt ThtunUmica a U

capta, in the same voL with L#o Gubsmb

1842.) Soon after this period follows lie re

history of western feudalism in "I hessiicaci a

Boniface, marquis of Moncferrat, and bu sorwn

during the first half of tbe 13th cetsrT.

city was again under Latin donutioo (brief,

sold by the Greek emperor to the VstctisM) <

it was finally taken by the Turk* war Ae

II., in 1430. This event also U d^m;«i!

writer in the Bonn Byzantine series (Joanne,

gnostes, de 7hrjsaLmicensi Excidio .VarraftM

same volume with I'hranzes and Canara*, 183

For the medieval history ot' TheKaloeia m

Fin lay's works. MeJSmtU 0>wer(l$51),af\.71

135—147; Byzantine and Grtek Empirn,*

(1853), pp. 315—332, Tol. ii. (1854). Bft lit

—266, 607. For its modern condiuue w

refer to the travellers, especially Beaajw,

shie'ry, Holland, and Leake.

4. KcCLESIASTlCAL HlSTORY.—The «■

Thessalonica are so closely cuurtectei wnk ni

that it is desirable to review theso is ■ ■

After Alexander's death the Jews sprraJ ■

ail the large cities of the provinces «sid

formed his empire. Hence then tsMoaSS

in the first century of the Chru-tian cri tar?

settled in considerable numbers at Tbrafalofl

deed this circumstance contributed to the sat

blishment of Christianity there by St-Psal

A p. xvii. 1). It seems probable thataasp

munity of Jews has been found in tba of

Bince. They are mentioned in the jertatk fl

during the Sclavonic wars; and a^ain is tbtt

by Kustathius and Benjamin of Tatf*k

events of the fifteenth century had tat el

bringing a large number of Spanish Jew *

taiouica. l'aul Lucas says that in bis ea)

were 30,000 of this nation here, «itb S

gogucs. More recent a .ithc-rities ran b

10,000 and 20.000. The present Jew A q

is in the south-east p.irt of tbe tows.

Christianity, once established iu TbeM

spread from it in various directions, ia eaeai

of the mercantile relations of the city. (1

i. 8.) During the succeeding centoriai ;s

was the bulwark, not simply of the Bynata

pire, but of Oriental ChrL-lendo-n,—sad

instrumental in the conversion of tbe Seal

and Bulgarians. Thus it received the ess)

of "The Orthodox City." It is trui *

legends of Demetrius, its patron saint (a Sat

the early part of tbe fourth century). a&af)

Christian history uf Thes&aioruca; in cssQ

success or failure seems to have been aatribl

the granting or witldiolding of his airesr: I

has a distinguished place in tasal

Theodujbius was bapuied byistl

ere, in coa>e^u<0£« ef tSB

morose, is chiefly cessMctsi j

esiaatical asKvUtucs- Tfc

became almost a j*tra-"tha*

the withdrawal of tiie pnooa

sdictiun from cutioectioa *ia% i

the reign of Leu baaiies*. banal

