ISTRIA. 73 ISTRIA.

Adriatic, but should assert that its waters entered

that sea with a turbulence and force similar to those

of the Padua. (Mel. ii. 3. § 13, 4. § 4.) In point

of fact, there is no river of any magnitude flowing

into tfae upper part of the Adriatic on its eastern

shore which could afford even the slightest coun­

tenance to such a notion; the rivers in the peninsula

of Istria itself are very trifling streams, and the dry,

calcareous ridges which hem in the £. shore of the

Adriatic, all the way from Trieste to the southern

extremity of Dalmatia, do not admit either of the

fHTostifjn or the outlet of any considerable body of

water. It is scarcely possible to account for the

origin of such a fable; but if the inhabitants of

Istria were really called Istri ("Io-rpot), as their

native name, which is at least highly probable, this

circumstance may have first led the Greeks to assume

their connection with the great river Ister, and the

existence of a considerable amount of traffic up the

valley of the Savus, and from thence by land across

the Julian Alps, or Mount Ocra, to the head of the

Adriatic (Strab. vii. p. 314), would tend to perpe­

tuate such a notion.

The Istrians are generally considered as a tribe of

Ilhrian race (AppUn, Illyr. 8; Strab. vii. p. 314;

Zeoss, [He Deutachen, p. 253), and the fact that they

were immediately surrounded by other Illyrian tribes

Is in itself a strong argument in favour of this view.

Scymnus China alone calls them a Tbracian tribe,

baton what authority we know not. (Scymn. Ch.

398.) They first appear in history as taking part

with the other Illyrians in their piralical expeditions,

and Livy ascribes to them this character as early as

B-C 301 (Liv. x. 2); but the first occasion on

which they are distinctly mentioned as joining in

then; enterprises is just before the Second Punic

War. They were, however, severely punished; the

Human consuls M. Minucius Rufus and P. Cornelius

■"ere sent against them, and they were reduced to

complete submission. (Etitrop. iii. 7; Oros. iv. 13;

Zi«ar. viii. 20; Apptan, Illyr. 8.) The next men­

tion of them occurs in b. c. 183, when the consul

M. Claudius Marcellus, after a successful campaign

aram^t the Omuls, asked and obtained permission to

I«td his legions into Istria. (Liv. xxxix. 55.) It

does not, however, appear that this invasion pro-

ducwl any considerable result; but their piratical

npeditioas, together with the opposition offered by

tlem to the foundation of the Roman colony of

AquileU, soon became the pretext of a fresh attack.

(Id.xl. 18, 26, xli. 1.) In B. c. 178 the consul

A. Manlius invaded Istria with two legions; and

tlwuzh he at first sustained a disaster, and narrowly

tvaped the capture of his camp, he recovered his

jr'Mti<m before the arrival of his colleague, M. Junius,

*ho had b**cn sent to his support. The two consuls  
tow attacked and defeated the Istrians; and their

iQfcessor, C. Claudius, following up this advantage,

ta>k in succession the towns of Nesactium, Mutila,

and Fiveria, and reduced the whole people to sub-

ffiUsiuu. For this success he was rewarded with a

triumph, b. c. 177. (Liv. xli. 1—5, 8—13; Flor.

ii- 10.) The subjection of the Istrians on this

o*a>wn wema to have been real and complete; for,

thtrugh a few years after we find them joining the

Carni and lapydes in complaining of the exactions of

C. Cassius (Liv. iliii. 5), we hear of no subsequent

itrolls. and the district appears to have continued

tranquil under the Roman yoke, until it was incor-

I"*it«l by Augustus, together with Venelia and the

had of the Carni, as a portion of Italy. (Strab. v.

p. 215; Plin. iii. 19. s. 23.) It continued thence­

forth to be always included under that name, though

geographically connected much more closely with

Dalmatia and IMyricum. Hence we find, in the

Notitia Dignitatum, the "Consulates Venetiae et

Histriae" placed under the jurisdiction of the VI-

carius Italiae. (Not. Dign, ii. pp. 5, 65.)

The natural limits of Istria are clearly marked by

those of the peninsula of which it consists, or by a

line drawn across from the Gulf of Trieste to that of

Quarnero, near Fiume; but the political boundary

was fixed by Augustus, when he included Istria in

Italy, at the river Arsia or Arsa, which falls into

the Gulf of Quamero about 15 miles from the

southern extremity of the peninsula. This river has

its sources in the group of mountains of which tho

Monte Maggiore forms the highest point, and which

constitutes the heart or nucleus of the peninsula,

from which there radiate ranges of great calcareous

hills, gradually declining as they approach the

western coast, so that the shore of Istria along the

Adriatic, though hilly and rocky, is not of any con­

siderable elevation, or picturesque in character. But

the calcareous rocks of which it is composed aro

indented by deep inlets, forming excellent harbours;

of these, the beautiful land-locked basin of Pola is

particularly remarkable, and was noted in ancient as

well as modern times. The northern point of Istria

was fixed by Augustus at the river Formio, a small

stream falling into the Gulf of Trieste between that'

city and Capo d"Istria. Pliny expressly excludes

Tergeste from Istria; but Ptolemy extends the

limits of that province so as to include both the river

Formio and Tergeste (Ptol. iii. 1. § 27); and Strabo

also appears to consider the Timavus as constituting

the boundary of Istria (Strab. v. p. 215), though he

elsewhere calls Tergeste "a village of the Carni"

(vii. p. 314). Pliny, however, repeatedly alludes to

the Formio as having constituted the boundary of

Italy before that name was officially extended so as

to include Istria ateo, and there can be no doubt of

the correctness of his statement. Istria is not a

country of any great natural fertility ; but its cal­

careous rocky soil was well adapted for the growth

of olives, and its oil was reckoned by Pliny inferior

only to that of Venafrum. (Plin. xv. 2. s. 8 ) In

the later ages of the Roman empire, when the seat

of government was fixed at Ravenna, Istria became

of increased importance, from its facility of com­

munication by sea with that capital, and furnished

considerable quantities of corn, as well as wine and

oil. (Cassiod. Varr. xii. 23, 24.) This was pro­

bably the most flourishing period of its history. It

was subsequently ravaged in succession by the Lom­

bards, Avars, and Sclavi (P. Diac. iv. 25, 42), but

appears to havo continued permanently subject to

the Lombard kingdom of Italy, until its destruction

in a. d. 774.

The towns in Istria mentioned by ancient writers

are not numerous. Much the most important was

Pola, near the extreme southern promontory of the

peninsula, which became a Roman colony under

Augustus. Proceeding along the coast from Ter­

geste to Pola, were A eg IDA (Capo dlstria),

subsequently called Justinopolis, and Parentium

(Parenzo)\ while on the E. coast, near the mouth

of the river Arsia, was situated Nesactium, already

noticed by Livy among the towns of the independent

Istrians. The two other towns, Mutila and Faveria,

mentioned by him in the same passage (xli. 11). are

otherwise unknown, and cannot be identified. Pto-

