ROMA. 745 ROMA.

Vneaf. A. C. 22; Marcell. Citron, p. 54.) Totila

:r raltaed to destroy Uie finest works of antiquity,

ad evea issued a decree that Rome should be turned

tU a puture. Yet he was not deficient in magna-

tauty aad clemency, and was diverted from these

r»i£iu bv the remonstrances of Itelisarius, who

k-T.nl him not to sally his fame bj such wanton

irbaritv. Upon Totila's marching into Lucania,

at the head of 1000 horse, cut his way

■ch the Goths who had been left to guard

eily. Be repaired with rude and hetero-

materials the walls which had been de-

; whilst the gates, which could not be so

y restored, were guarded by his bravest eol-

ara> TscU returned to Rome bj forced marches,

•t was thrice repulsed in three general assaults,

■i tar.oa, however, being commanded by Justinian

| • sad into Lucania, left a garrison of 30O0 of

I test troops at Rome under the command of

»C asa The city was again betrayed by some

imsM is 549, who opened the gate of St. l'aul

Tetda and bis Goths. Totila. who seems now to

* najsaiered himself as in confirmed possession  
Italy, ao longer exhibited any desire to destroy

■ xhScaa of Rome, which be regarded as the

y sal af his kingdom, and he even exhibited the

matrmM games in the Circus. (Procop. //. G. It,

) But in 552 he was defeated and slain by the

isr» Xanes in the battle of Tagina. Names

- rarefied to Rome, and once more sent its keys  
Axtmsaa. during whose reign the city had been

a>«w than five tiroes taken and recovered. (//>.

—34; Tbeoph. C'knm. vol. i. p. 354, ed. Bonn.)

Aaaaa aiufii the Popes. — Towards the close

iu sixth century Rome had touched the lowest

r. if degradation. The Roman citizens lived

0 xxiaa! fear of the attacks of the Lombards;

xhahitaots of the surrounding country, who

hearer dared to devote themselves to the pur-

• ef apiculture, took refuge within the walls;

1 the Campagna of Rome became a desert,

time iaiectioas vapours. The indigence and

rr^Lacr of a great part of the inhabitants

land a rapid decrease of population, though

r sranty numbers did not protect them from

aw The edifices of Rome fell into decay; and

I -wnsaaulj believed that Pope Gregory the Great,

»SM the papal chair from 590 to 604, purposely

k«1 the temples and mutilated the statues,—a

ass. h—am, which rests on doubtful evidence,

vfcka haa been strenuously repelled by Gregory's

I . ,!;! i up Kivlc, Orri/uire Itr.). Bur-

av ia has vpiatle on the subject (in Graevius,

»- <■!. tbL iv.X says that tbeCircusMaximus,

kataa aasl theatres, were certainly overthrown

rsnfiy, and that this is particularly evident in

salias af Caracalla and Diocletian (p. 1885).

a'tr.batea thitf, as a merit, to Gregory and one

• > KJaaeqaent popes, and assigns as a reason

the asBtaaf were nothing but schools of licen-

aweat (p. 1889, seq.) It seems more probable,

Mf tbax tire destruction of the baths arose

tar fail a re of the aqueducts — a circumstance

k wtadti have rendered them useless — and from

txaaawav <sf keeping them up. Bargaeus himself

balsa the) rain Of 'be aqueducts to the latter

tip, 1891); bat they must also have suffered

srauali ia the Gothic wars. Hence perliaps

ksusw iWralatkais of the thermae, having be-

»ii<rtb<v tweleaa, be ran to be used as stone

wbicb would uccount for

the appearance of wilful damage. That ruin had

made great progress at Rome before the time of

Gregory, is manifest from some passages in his own

works in which he deplores it. Thus in one of his

homilies be says: "Qualis remanserit Roma, con-

spicimus. Immensis doloribus multiplicity attrita,

desolatione civium, impressione hostium, frequently

ruinarvm." And again: "Quid autem ista de

hominibus dicimus, cum minis crebresccntibus ipsa

quoque dust mi aedificia videmus?" (Horn. 18 in

Etech, ap. Donatum, de Urbe Roma, i. 28, sub fin.)

He would hardly have written thus had he himself

been the cause of these ruins. The charge probably

acquired strength from Gregory's avowed antipathy

to classical literature.

Whilst the dominion of Italy was divided between

the Lombards and the exarchs of Itavenna, Rome

was the head of a duchy of almost the same size

as her ancient territory, extending from Vitcrbo to

Terracina, and from Nami to the mouth of the

Tiber. The fratricide Constans II. is said to have

entertained the idea of restoring the seat of empire

to Rome (a. d. 662). (//£<(. Mite. ap. Muratori,

Scrip. R. I. iii. pt. i. p. 137.) But the Lombard

power was too strong; and, after a visit of a few

days to the ancient capital, he abandoned it for ever,

after pillaging the churches and carrying off the

bronxe roof of the Pantheon. (Schloaser, Geich.

d. bitder'iturmenden Kaiser, p. 80.) In the eighth

century the Romans revived the style of the Re­

public, but the Popes had become their chief ma­

gistrates. During this period Rome was constantly

harassed and suffered many sieges by the Lombards

under Luitprand, Astolphus, and other kings. In

846 the various measure of its calamities was filled

up by an attack of the Saracens—as if the former

mistress of the world was destined to be the butt

of wandering barbarians from all quarters of the

globe. The disciples of Mahomet pillaged the church

of St. Peter, as well as that of St. Paul outside the

Porta Ostiensis, but did not succeed in entering the

city itself. They were repulsed by the vigilance

and energy of pope Leo IV., who repaired the an­

cient walls, restored fifteen towers which had been

overthrown, and enclosed the quarter of the Vutican;

on which in 852 he bestowed his blessing and the

title of Citta Leonma, or Leonine city (now the

Borgo di S. Pietro). (Anastasius, V. Leon. IV.)

In the period between 1081 and 1084 Rome was

thrice fruitlessly besieged by the emperor Henry IV,

who, however, by means of corruption at last suc­

ceeded in gaining possession of it; but the ruins of

the SepUzonium, defended by the nephew of Pope

Gregory VII., resisted all the attacks of Henry's

forces. Gregory shut himself up in the castle of

S. Angelo, and invoked the assistance of his vassal,

Robert Guiacard. Henry fled at the approach of the

warlike Xorman; but Rome suffered more at the hands

of its friends than it had ever before done from the

assaults of its enemies. A tumult was excited by

the imperial adherents, and the Saracens in Robert's

army, who despised both parties, seized the oppor­

tunity for violence and plunder. The city was f.red;

a great part of the buildings on the Campus Martins,

as welt as the spacious district from the Lateran

to the Colosseum, was consumed, and the latter

portion has never since been restored. (Mulaterra,

iii. c. 37; Donatus, iv. 8.)

But Rome has suffered more injury from her own

cituens than from the hands of foreigners; and its

ruin must be chiefly imputed to the civil dissensions

