ISSUS. IS™ A.

From the Saras the army marched 5 parasangs to

the Pyramus, which was crossed where it was GOO

Greek feet wide; and tin' march from the Pyramus

to Issus was 1") parasangs. Accordingly, the whole

distance marched from Tarsus to Issus was 30

parusangs. The direct distance from Tarsus to the

head of the gulf is ahout 56 geographical miles; and

these two points are very nearly in the tame lati­

tude. The modern road from Tarsus, through

Adana on the Sarus, and Mopsncstia on the Py­

ramus, to the head of t lie gulf, lias a general direc­

tion from W. to E. The length of Cyrus's march,

from Tarsus to the Sarus, exceeds the direct dis­

tance "ii the map very much, if we reckon the para-

sang at 3 geographical miles; for 10 parasnngs are

30 geographical miles, and the direct distance to

Adana is not more than 16 miles. Mr. Ahisworth

informs us that the Sarus is not fordable at Adana;

and Cyrus probably crossed at some other place.

The inarch from the Sarus to the Pyramus was 5

para-anus, or 15 geographical miles; and this appears

to he 'v ery nearly tlie direct distance from Adana to

JJopsuestia (Muiis), But Cyrus may have crossed

some distance below Mopsuestia, without lengthen­

ing his march from the Sarus to the Pyramus; and

he may have done this even if he had to go lower

down the Sarus than Adana to find a ford. If lie

did not go higher up the Pyramus to seek a ford,

for the reasons which Mr. Ains worth mentions, he

must have crossed lower down than Mopsuestia.

The distance from the point where the supposed old

bed begins to turn to the south, to the NE. end of

the gulf of Issus,is 40 geographical miles; and thus

the distance of 15 parasangs from the passage of

the Pyramus to Issus, is more easily reconciled with

the real distance than the measurement from Tarsus

to the Sarus.

The places not absolutely determined on or near

the gulf of Issus, are: Myriandrus, Nicopolis, Epi-

phaneia [Epiphaneia], Arae Alexandri, and Issus,

though we know that Issus, must have been at the

head of the gulf and on it. The following extract

from Colonel Chesney contains the latest information

oil these sites;—"About 7 miles south-eastward

from the borders of Syria are the remains of a con­

siderable city, probably those of Issus or Nicopolis,

with tlie ruins of a temple, a part of the Acropolis,

an extensive aqueduct, generally with a double row

of arches, running ESE. and WNW. These, in ad­

dition to the walls of the city itself, are entirely built

of lava, and still exist in considerable perfection.

Nearly 14 miles southward from thence, the Deli

ChaV quits the foot of the Amanus in two branches,

which, after traversing the Issic plain, unite at the

foot of tlie mountain just previously to entering the

sea. The principal of these brandies makes a deep

curve towards the NE., so that a body of troop*

occupying one side might see behind and outflank

those posted on the opposite side, in which, as well

as in other respects, tlie stream appears to answer

to the Pinarus of Alexander's historians. A little

southward of this river are the castle, khan, bazar,

baths, and other ruins of Bay as, once Baiae, with

the three villages of Kuretur in the neighbourhood,

situated in the midst of groves of orange and palm

trees. Again. 5 miles southward, is the pass, above

indit ed, of Sukal-tulan, and at nearly the same dis­

tance onward, the fine bay and anchorage of Iskende-

run, with an open but convenient landing-place on a

bold beach; but, in consequence of the accumulation

of the sand by which the mouths of the streams

j descending from this part of the Amanus are choked,

| a pestilential swamp extends from the very edge i>f

the sea almost to the foot of the mountain. In the

marsh towards the latter are some trifling ruins,

j which may possibly he tlie site of ancient Myrian­

drus; and within a mile of the shore are the remains

of a castle and bridge constructed by Godfrey of

Bouillon." (Expedition for the Surrey of the Rittri

Euphrates owl Tigris, vol, i. p. 408.)

There is no direct proof here that these remains

are those of Issus. The aqueduct probably belongs

! to the Roman period. It seems most likely that

I the remains are those of Nicopolis, and that K>us

I on the coast lias disappeared. Colonel Chesney's

\ description of the bend of one of the brandies of

the Deli Tschai corresponds to Arrian's (ii. 2. § 10),

who says, " Darius placed at the fixit of the moun­

tain, which was on the Persian left and ophite to

Alexander's right, about 20.000 men; and some of

them were on the rear of Alexander's army. For

the mountain where they were jested in one place

opened to some depth, and so a part became of the

form of a bay on the sea. Darius then, by ad­

vancing further to the bend, brought the men who

were posted at the foot of the mountain, in the rear

of the right wing of Alexander."

There still seems some doubt about the site of

Myriandrus, which Mr. Ainswoith (Travels in the

Track of the Ten Thousand, tfc. p. 60) places about

half way between Scanderotxi and Hhosus (Arsus);

anil he has the authority of Strabo. in his enumera­

tion of the places on this coast, and that of Ptolemy,

who places Myriandrus 15' south of Alexandria ad

Issum. As to Arsus, he observes, — "there are

many ruins, and especially a long aqueduct leading

from the foot of the mountains." [G. L.]

ISTAEVONES. [Germania and Hillevi-

ONES.]

ISTER. [Dam-ism*.]

I'STHMIA, a small district in Thessaly. [Zela-

SI I'M.]

ISTHMUS. [Cokinthi-s, p. GS2, seq.]

ISTO'NE. [Cokcyra.]

ISTO'NIUM. [Ckltihkuta.]

!'STRIA ('IffTpi'a) or HI'STRIA, was the name

given by the Greeks and Romans to the country

which still bears the same appellation, and forms a

peninsula of somewhat triangular form near the head

of the Adriatic sea, running out from the coast of

Liburnia, between Tcrgeste (Trieste) and the Sinus

Flanaticus, or Gulf if Qustmero. It is about 50

G. miles in length, and 35 in breadth, while the

isthmus or strip of land between the two gulfs of

Trieste and Qtutrnero, by which it is united to the

mainland, is about 27 G. miles across. The name

is derived both by (.Ireek and Latin authors from the

fabulous notion entertained at a very early period

that one branch or arm of the Danube (the Ister of

the Greeks) flowed into the Adriatic sea near its

head. (Strab. i. p. 57; Plin. Hi. 18. s. 22.) The

deep inlets and narrow channels with which the

coasts of the Adriatic are intersected for a consider­

able distance below the peninsula of Istria may have

contributed to favour this notion so long as those

coasts were imperfectly known; and hence we cannot

wonder at Seylax speaking of a river named Istnis

(which he identifies with the Danube) as flowing

through the land of the Istrians (Scyl. p. 6. § 20);

but it seems incredible that an author like Mela,

writing in the days of Augustus, should not only

speak of a river Ister as (lowing into this part of the

