LUCANIA. 'in? LUCANIA.

Lacuna U evidently "the land of the Lu-

ramans :" bat though no territorial designation in

Italy became more clearly marked or generally

adapted than this appellation, it was not till a com­

paratively late period that it came into use. The

once of the Lucanians was wholly unknown to the

Greeks in the days of Thucydides; and the tract

subsequently known as Lucania was up to that

time generally comprised under the vague appellation

of Oenotria, while its coasts were included in the

name of Magna Graecia. Scylax is the earliest

aathor in whom the name of Lucania and the Lu­

canians is found; and he describes them as extending

from the frontiers of the Somnites and Iapygians to

the southern extremity of the Bruttian peninsula.

(Scyl. pp. 3, 4, 5. §§ 12, 13.) We are fortunately

sole to trace with certainty the historical causes of

this change of designation.

The earliest inhabitants of the part of Italy after­

wards known as Lucania, were the Oenotrians and

Clwnes, tribes whom there is good reason to refer

to a Pelasgic stock. [Italia, p. 84. The few

particulars transmitted to us concerning them are

pven under Oknotria.] These races appear to

hare heeu unwarlike, or at least incapable of offering

any material opposition to the arms of the Greeks;

» that when the latter established a line of colonies

along the shores of the Tyrrhenian sea and the

Calf of Tarentum, they seem to have reduced the

barbarians of the interior to a state of at least

nominal subjection with but little difficulty. Thus

Sj-baris extended her power from sea to sea, and

f-unded the colonies of Posidonia, Laiis, and Scidrus

on the western coast of Oenotria; while further to

tl* S. Crotona and Locri followed her example.

It is probable, however, that other means were

employed by the Greeks as well as arms. The

1'tUsgic races of Oenotria were probably assimilated

without much difficulty with their Hellenic rulers;

and there seems reason to believe that the native

races were to a considerable extent admitted to the

jririleges of citizens, and formed no unimportant

fknent in the population of the cities of llagua

liraecia. (Niebuhr, voh i. p. 60.) The history of

tte foundation and rise of the numerous Greek

colonies, which gradually formed as it were a belt,

orirchng the whole southern peninsula of Italy,

are more appropriately reserved for the article

HaoxA Gkaecla. It may here suffice to mention

that the period immediately preceding the fall of Sy-

baris (i: i ■. 51U) may be taken as that during which

the Greek cities were at the height of their power,

and when their dominion was most widely extended.

But though many of those cities suffered severely

from domestic dissensions, we find no truce of any

material change in their relations with the neigh-

tooring barbarians, till the appearance of the Lu-

cinuma at once produced an entire change in the

«p« of affairs.

The Lucanians were, according to the general tes­

timony of ancient writers, a Sabellian race,—an off-

*aoat or branch of the Samuite nation, which, sepa-  
stiit; from the main body of that people, in the

*ame manner as the Campanians, the Uirpini, and  
U* Frentaru hud severally done, pressed on still

farther to the south, and established themselves in

u* country subsequently known as Lucania. (Strab.

vi p- 254; Flin. iii. 5. s. 10.) The origin of their

*ast is unknown: for the derivation of it from a  
leader uf the name <if Lucius (l'lin. xxx. /. c; Etym.

JLitn. ». r. AivKavoi) is too obviously a mere ety-

Biological fiction of late days to deserve attention.

Nor have we any distinct information as to the period

of their first appearance and establishment Strabo

describes them, without doubt, correctly, as first

expelling (or more properly svbdmng) the Oeno­

trians and Chones, and then turning their arms

against the Greek cities on the coast. But it is not

till they come into contact with these last that we

have any account of their proceedings ; and we have,

therefore, no information as to the commencement of

their career. Even their wars with the Greeks are

known to us only in a very imperfect and fragmen­

tary manner, so that we can scarcely trace the steps

of their progress. But it is probable that it was not

till after the conquest of Campania (about B. c. 420)

that the Samnites began to extend their conquests

to the southward. Niebuhr has justly observed

that the tranquil foundation of the Athenian colony

at Thurii, in B. c. 442, and the period of prosperity

which allowed it at first to rise rapidly to power,

sufficiently prove that the Lucanians had not as yet

become formidable neighbours to the Gauls, at least

on that side of the peninsula (Nieb. vol. i. p. 96).

But they seemed to have first turned their arms

ajainst the Greek cities on the W. coast, and esta­

blished a permanent footing in that quarter, before

they came into collision with the mora piwerlul cities

on the Tarentine gulf. (Strab. i. p. 254.) Posidonia

was apparently the first of the Greek cities which

yielded to their arms, though the date of its conquest

is uncertain. [Paestum.J It was probably soon after

this that the Thurians, under the command of Clean-

dridas, were engaged in war with the Lucanians.

in which they appeared to have obtained some con­

siderable successes. (Polyaen, ii. 10.) But the

progress of the hitter was still unchecked; and the

increasing danger from their power led to the forma­

tion, in B. c. 393, of a defensive league among all the

principal cities of Magna Graecia, with a view of

resisting the Lucanians on the N., and the power of

Dionysius on the S. (Diod. xiv. 91.) They might

reasonably suppose that their combined arms would

easily effect this; but only three years later, B. c.

390, the forces of the confederates, among whom

the Thurians took the lead, sustained a great de­

feat near Laiis, in which it is said that 10,000 of the

Greeks perished. (Diod. xiv. 101, 102; Strab. vi.

p. 253.) After this success, the Lucanians seem to

have spread themselves with but little opposition

through the southern peninsula of Italy. The wars

of the elder Dionysius in that region must have in­

directly favoured their progress by weakening the

Greek cities; and though he did not openly support

the Lucanians, it is evident that he looked upon

their successes with no unfavourable eyes. (Diod.

xiv. 102.) Their continued advance towards the

south, however, would soon render them in their

tum a source of umbrage to the Syracusan despots,

who had established a permanent footing in the

Italian peninsula; hence we find the younger Diony­

sius engaged in hostilities with the Lucanians, but

ap|iarent)y with little success; and after a vain

attempt to exclude them from the southernmost

peninsula of Bruttium, by fortifying the isthmus

between the Hipponian and Scyllacian gulfs, he was

obliged to conclude a treaty of peace with them in

B. c. 358. (Diod. xvi. 5; Strab. vi. p. 261.)

This was about the period during which the Lu­

canians had attained their greatest power, and

extended their dominion to the limits which we

find assigned to them by Scylax (pp. 3, 4). They

