MASSILTA. 293 MASSILIA.

his time speaks of the power being in the hands of

the "selecti et principes," or as he calls them in

another place the "optimates;" and though the

administration was equitable, "there was," he says,

"in this condition of the * populus' a certain resem­

blance to servitude." Though the people had little

or no power, so far as we can learn, vet the name

I Mims was in use; and probably, as in most Greek

towns, the official title was Boule and Demus, as at

Kane it was Senat us Populusqne Romanus. The

division of the people was into Phylae. The council

of the 600 probably subsisted to a late period, for

Lacian, or whoever is the author of the ToxarU

(c 24) mentions it in his story of the friendship of

Zenothetnis and Menecrates.

Sane writers have attempted, out of the fragments

<<f antiquity, to reconstruct the whole polity of Mas-

sjiia; an idle and foolish attempt. A few things

■re recorded, which are worth notice; and though

the authority for some of them is not a critical

writer, we can hardly suppose that he invented.

(Yaler. Maxim, ii. 6.) Poison was kept under the

tire of the administration, and if a man wished to

die, he must apply to the Six Hundred, and if he

n*ie out a good case, he was allowed to take a dose;

and * herein," says Valerius, " a manly investiga-

ticn was tempered by kindness, which neither al-

liwwi any one to depart from life without a cause,

aad wisely gives to him who wishes to depart a

spwdy way to death." The credibility of this usage

h*> been doubted on various grounds; but there is

inching in it contrary to the notions of antiquity.

Two coftins always stood at the gates, one for the

the ilave, one for the freeman; the bodies were

Ukeo to the place of interment or burning, which­

ever it was, in a vehicle: the sorrow terminated on

the day of the funeral, which was followed by a

dyrwstic sacrifice and a repast of the relations. The

thing was done cheap: the undertaker would not

grow rich at Massalia. No stranger was allowed

to enter the city with arms: they were taken from

him, and restored when he went away. These and

Hher precautions had their origin in the insecurity

©fr settlers among a warlike and hostile population

rf Mgorians and Galli. The Massaliots also had

dare*, as all Greeks had; and though manumission

»m permitted, it may be inferred from Valerius, if

he has not after his fashion confounded a Greek and

fcmia usage, that the slave's condition was hard.

Asoppjy of slaves might begot from the Galli, who

told their own children. Whether the Ligurian was

*> U*e, may be doubted. We read of Ligurians  
**iing for daily hire for Massaliot masters. This  
tardy race, men and women, used to come down

fr*m the mountains to earn a scanty pittance by

tiffing the ground ; and two ancient writers have

piannsl the same story, on the evidence of Posi-

Aeius, of the endurance of a Ligurian woman, who

waj working for a Massaliot farmer, and being seized

■ith the pains of childbirth, retired into a wood to be

tart-red, and came back to her work, for she would

w l«e her hire, (Strab. iii. p. 165; Diodor. iv. 20.)

^ ■ just to add that the employer paid the poor

*r*n*n her wages, and sent her off with the child.

The temperance, decency, and simplicity of Mas-

•aVwt manners during their best period, before they

**i iene been subjected to Roman rule, are com-  
B?ended by the ancient writers. The women drank

&> "me. Those spectacles, which the Romans called

Mind, coarse, corrupting exhibitions, were pro~

h&tai. Against religious impostors the Massa-

Hot shut his door, for in those days there were men

who made a trade of superstition. The highest

sum of money that a man could get with a woman

was a hundred gold pieces: he must take a wife

for what she was worth, and not for her money.

She had five gold pieces for her dress, and five for

her gold ornaments. This was the limit fixed by

the sumptuary laws. Perhaps the Massaliot women

were handsome enough to want nothing more.

Massalia cultivated literature, though it did not

produce, as far as we know, either poets or histo­

rians. An edition (Stdptfuwti) of the Homeric

poems, called the Massaliot edition, was used by the

Alexandrine critics in settling the text of Homer.

It is not known by whom this ediion was made;

but as it bore the name of Massalia, it may bo

supposed that it came from this city. The name

of Pytheas is inseparably connected with the mari­

time fame of Massalia, but opinions will always

differ, as they did in antiquity, as to the extent of

his voyages and his veracity. (Strab. ii. p. 104.)

That this man, a contemporary of Alexander, navi­

gated the Atlantic Ocean, saw Britain, and explored

a large part of the western coast of Europe, can

hardly be doubted. There was nothing strange in

this, for the Phoenicians had been in Britain cen­

turies before. Pliny (ii. 97) records a statement of

Pytheas as to the high tides on the British coast,

Strabo (ii. p. 71) states that Hipparchus, on the

authority of Pytheas, placed Massalia and Byzantium

in the same latitude. But it appears from another

passage of Strabo (ii. p. 115), that Hipparchus said

that the ratio between the gnomon and its shadow at

Byzantium was the same that Pytheas said it was

at Massalia; whence it appears that the conclusion

is Hipparchus' own, and that the error may have

been either in the latitude of Massalia, or in the

latitude of Byzantium. As for the voyages of

another Massaliot, Euthymenes, there is too little

authority to enable us to say anything certain.

As the Massaliots planted their colonies along

the south coast of Gallia and even in Spain, we may

conclude that all the places which they chose were

selected with a view to commerce. The territory

which Massalia itself had, and its colonies, was in­

significant. Montesquieu (Esprit des I^ois, xx. 5)

justly estimated the consequences of this city's po­

sition : " Marseille, a necessary port of refuge in the

midst of a stormy sea ; Marseille, this place where

the winds, the sea-banks, the form of the coast, bid

the mariner touch, was frequented by maritime

peoples. The sterility of its soil determined com­

merce as the pursuit of the inhabitants." The

Massaliots were noted for their excellent ships and

their skill in constructing machinery. They carried

on a large trade by sea, and we may conclude that

they exported the products of Gallia, for which they

could give either foreign produce or their own wine,

oil, domestic utensils, and arms. The fact that in

Caesar's time the Helvetii used the Greek cha­

racters, is in itself evidence of the intercourse be­

tween the Greeks on the coast and the Galli. When

we consider also that the Greeks were settled all

along the southern coast of Gallia, from which the

access was easy to the basin of the Garonne, it is a

fair conclusion that they exchanged articles, either

directly or through several hands, with tho Galli on

the Western Ocean; and bo part of the trade of

Britannia would pass through the Greek settlements

on the south coast of France. [Gallia, Vol. L

p. 963.]

U 3

