34 ILIUM. ILLIBKRIS.

It is also certain that in the time of Alexander

New Ilium did exist, and was inhabited by Aeoliana.

(Demosth. e. Aristocr. p. 671: Arrinn, Annb. i. 11.

§ 7; Strab. xiii. p. 593, foil.) This new town,

which is distinguished by Strata from the famous

ancient city, was not more than 12 stadia, or less

than two English miles, distant from the sea, and was

built upon the spur of a projecting edge of Ida,

separating the bavins of the Scaniandor and Simois.

It was at first a place of not much importance (Strab.

xiii. pp. 593, 601), but increased in the course of

time, and was successively extended and embellished

by Alexander, Lysimachus, and Juhus Caesar.

During the Mithridntic War New Ilium was taken

by Fimbria, in B. c. 85, on which occasion it suffered

greatly. (Strab. xiii. p. 594; Appi.in, Mit/triL 53;

I.ir. Epit. Ixxxiii.) It is said to have been once

destroyed before that time, by one Charidemus

(Pint. Sertor. I.; Polyaen. iii. 14) : but we neither

know when this happened, nor who this Charidemus

was. Sulla, however, favoured the town extremely,

in consequence of which it rose, under the Romun

dominion, to considerable prosperity, and enjoyed

exemption from all taxes. (Plin. v. 33.) These were

the advantages which the place owed to the tradition

that it occupied the identical site of the ancient and

holy city of Troy: for, it may here be observed, that

no ancient author of Greece or Rome ever doubted

the identity of the site of Old and New Ilium until

the time of Demetrius of Scepsis, and Strata, who

adopted his views; and that even afterwards, the

popular belief among the people of Ilium itself, as

well as throughout the world generally, remained as

firmly established as if the criticism of Demetrius

and Strata had never been heard of. These critics

were led to look for Old Ilium farther inland, because

they considered the space between New Ilium and the

coast far too small to have been the scene of all the

great exploits described in the Iliad ; and, although

they are obliged to own that not a vestige of Old

IKum was to be seen anywhere, yet they assumed

that it must have been situated about 42 stadia from

the sea-coast. They accordingly fixed upon a spot

which at the time bore the name of "IAifW kwmv-

This view, with its assumption of Old and New Ilium

as two distinct places, does not in any way remove

the difficulties which it is intended to remove ; for

the spaec will still be found far too narrow, not to

mention that it demands of the poet what can be

demanded only of a geographer or an historian. On

these grounds we, in common with the general belief

of all antiquity, which has also fonnd able advocates

among modern critics, assume that Old and New

Ilium nrcupird the same site. The statements in

the Iliad which appear irreconcilable with this view

will disappear if we bear in mind that we have to do

with an entirely legendary story, which is little con­

cerned about geographical accuracy.

The site of New Ilium (according to our view,

identical with that of Old Ilium) is acknowledged by

all modern inquirers and travellers to be the spot

covered with ruins now called Kutnrlit, between the

villages of Ktan-kwi KaUifatU, and Tehiblak,

a little to the west of the last-mentioned place, and

not far from the point when* the Simois once j<>ined

the Sramaitder. Those who maintain tliat Old Ilium

was situated in a different li>cality cannot, of course,

be expected to agree in their opinions as to its actual

site, it being impossible to fix upon any one spot

agreeing in every particular with tin poet's descrip­

tion. lle»i«cting the nationality of tlie inhabitant*

of Ilium, we shall have to speak in the article TnoA*.

(Comp. Spohn, de AgroTrojnmo, Lipsiae, 1814, 8vo.;

Rennell, Obmrtnliont on the Typography of the

Plain of Troy, London, 1814.4to.; Choiseul-GonfBer,

Voyage I'ittoretque de la Greet, Paris, 1820, vol ii.

p. 177, 6.11.; Leake, ^1/ia Jtfinor, p. 275. folL; Grote

]Iut. of Greece, vol. i. p. 436, foil.; Eckenbrecher,

iiber die Lage de* /lomeriechen Won, Rhein. Mm.

Neue Fol^c, vol. ii. pp. 1—49, whore a very good plan

of the district of Ilion is given. Sec also, Welcker,

Kleine Schriften, vol. ii. p. I, full.; C. Maclaren.

DtMertation on the Topography of the Trojan War,

Kdinburgh. 1822; Mauduit, Decoueertei diau la

Troiode, rfc., Paris & Lundres, 1840.) [L. S.]

COIN OF ILIUM.

ILI.I'RF.RIS CIAAjftpff, Ptol. ii. 4. § 11), or

ILLIBER1 LIBERINI (Plin. iii. I. s. 3), one of

the chief cities of the Turduli, in Hispania Barlica,

between the Baetis and the coast, is identified by

inscriptions with Granada. It is probably tlie

Klibyrge ('EXitifrpi) of Stephanus Byzautinus.

(Inscr. ap. Gruter, p. 277, No. 3; Klorez, Etp. &.

vol. v. p. 4, vol. xiL p. 81 ; Mentelle, Geoor. Comp.

Kip. Mod. p. 163 ; Coins ap. Florei, Med vol. iii.

p. 75; Mionnet, vol. i. p. 15, SuppL vol. i. p. 28;

Eckhel, vol. i. p. 22.) [P. S.]

coin op ii.ijiif.ius (in spain).

ILLIBERIS or ILI.IBF.RRIS ri)uteplt\ a town

in the country of the Sordones, or Sardone*, or Surdi.

in Gallia Aquitarria. The first place that Hannibal

came to after passing through the Eastern Pyrenees

was Illiberis. (Liv. xxi. 24.) He must have passed

by Jiellegarde, Illiberis was near a small river Illi-

bcris, which is south of another small stream, th»

Ruscino, which had also on it a town named Rum-inn.

(Strab. p. 182.) Mela (ii. 5) and Pliny (Hi. 4)

6{«ak of Illiberis as having once been a great place,

but in their time bring decayed. The road in tlie

Antonine Itin. from Arclate {Ariel) through 'be

Pyrenees to Juncaria passes from Ruscino ( Vattet.

Kirurillon) to Ad Centurionea, and omits Illiberis;

but the Table (.laces Illiberis between Ruscino and

Ad Centrnarium, which is the same place as lbs

Ad Onturioncs of the Itin. [Ckntvrioneh, Aix]

lllibtri* is h'.lne, on tbe river 7VcA.

Illiberis or Illiberris is an Iberian nam*. Then

is another place, Cliniberris, on tlie Gallic aide isf

tbe Pyrenees, which has tin same termination.

[Aim i.| It is said that btrri, in tbe Batqna,

meani "a town." The site of Illiberis is fixed al

Eke by the I tins.; and we find an explanation of

