1 BO LEPOXTIL LEONTIUM.

implore the intervention of Athens. (T)iod. xn. 53;

Plat. Hipp. Maj. p. 282.) [K. H. 11.]

COIN* OF LKONTINI.

LEO'NTIUM (AfoVriov: Kth. teovrfatoi), a

town of Achaia, was originally not one of the

12 Achaean cities, though it afterwards became so,

succeeding to the place of Khypes. It is only men­

tioned by Polybius, and its position is uncertain.

It must, however, have been an inland town, and

was probably between Pharae and the territory oi

Aegium, since we find that the Eleians under the

Aetolian general Euripidas, after marching through

the territory of Pharae as far as that of Aegium.

retreated to Lcontium. Leake places it in the

valley of the Selinus, between the territory of Tri-

taea and that of Aegium, at a place now called Ai

A ndhrca, from a ruined church of that saint near the

village of Guzumutra. Callicratcs, the parti/^in of

the Romans during the later days of the Achaean

League, was a native of Leontium. (Pol. ii. 41,

y. 94, xxvi. 1 ; Leake, Morea, vol. iii. p. 419.)

LEOXTO'POLIS. [NiCKPHomuM.]

LEOXTO'POLIS. [Lkontks.]

LEOXTO'POLIS (AtoVrw wrfAij, Ptol. iv. 5.

§ 51 ; Strab. xvii. pp. 802, 812 ; AfoVrw, Hieronym.

ad Jovian, ii. C; Lcontos Oppiduin, Plin. v. 20.

s. 17), the capital of the Leoutopolite nome in the

Delta of Egypt. It stood in lat. 30° 6' N., about

threo geographical miles S. of Thmuis. Strabo is

the earliest writer who mentions either this nome, or

its chief town: and it was probably of comparatively

recent origin and importance. The lion was nut

among the sacred animals of Aegypt: but that it

was occasionally domesticated and kept in the

temples, may be inferred from Diodorus (ii. 84).

Trained lions, employed in the chase of deers, wolves, I

&c, are found in the hunting-pieces delineated upon

tli'- walls of the grottoes at Btnihatsan. (Wilkinson,

M. and C. vol. iii. p. 1C.) In the reign of Ptolemy

Philoiuetor (n. c. 180—145) a temple, modelled j

after that of Jerusalem, was founded by the exiled

Jewish priest Onias. (Joseph. Ant Jud. xiii. 3. |

§ 3; Hieronym. m Daniel ch. xi.) The Hebrew ]

colony, which was attracted by the establishment

of their national worship at Lcuntojolis, and which .

was increased by the refugees from the opprrs- I

•ions of the Seleucid kings in Palestine, nourished

there for more than three centuries afterwards.

In the reign of Vespasian the I^eontopolite temple

was closed, amid the general discouragement of

Judaism by that ern|>eror. (Joseph. /-'. .///•/. vii.

10. § 4.) Ami {uarians are divided as to the real

site of the ruins of Lcontopulis. According to

D'Anville, they are et>vered by a mound still called

Tzl-Essabe. or the "Lion's Hill" (Comp. Cham-

pollion, CEgypte, vol. ii. p. 110, scq.). Jomard, on

the otlier hand, maintains that some tumuli near the

village of ELMengaleh in the Delta, represent tlw

ancient Lcontopolu. And this supposition agrees

better with the account of the town given by Xe-

nophon of Ephesus. (A/>Aejwca, iv. p. 280, ed.

Bipont.) [W. 11. D.]

LEPETYMNUS (Acvrrvproff, called Lepetbym-

nus or Lcpethymus by Pliny, v. 31. s. 39; the MSS.

vary), a mountain in the northern part of Lesbos, near

Methymna. Plebn states (Lesbuic. Lib. p. 9) that

it is the highest mountain in tho island: but tins

does not appear to be consistent with modern

surveys. Its present name is said to be Mtmt S.

Theodore. The sepulchre and tomb of the ben

Palamedcs are alleged to have been here, (Tzetiea,

Lycophr. Cussandr. 1095; Phila-.tr. Heroic p. 716,

\'il. Apollon. Tyan. iv. 13. 150, also 16. 154.) In

Antigouus of Carystus (c. 17) there is a story given,

on the authority of Myrsilus the Lesbian, concerning

a temple of Apollo and a shrine of the hero Lepe-

tymmis, connected with the same mountain. Here,

also, according to Theophrastus (De Sign. Plue. tt

Vent. p. 783, ed. Schueid.), an astronomer called

Matricetas made his observations. [J. S. 11 j

LEPItfUS MONS is the name given by Columella

(x. 131), the only author in whom the name is

found, to a mountain near Signia in Latiam, pro­

bably one of the undcrfalls or offshoot* of the great

mass of the Volscian Apennines. The name of

Montcs Lepini is frequently applied by modern geo­

graphers to the whole of the lofty mountain group

which sef-arates the valley of the Sacco from th«

Pontine Marshes [ Lai it m j ; but there is no ancient

authority for this. [E. H. B.]

LEPIDO'TONPOLIS (A«TioW£r *> AtirioWrir

w6\is, Ptol. iv. 5. § 72), a town in Upper Egyjt,

situated in the Pauopolite nome, and on the eastern

side of the Kile. It was about four geographical

miles X. of Chcnoboscia. Lat. 26° 2' N. This wa

doubtless, the place at which Herodotus had bra.il

that the fish lepidotu* was caught in great num­

bers, and even received divine honours (ii. 72.

comp. Minutoli, p. 414; Champollion, tEgyyte,

voL i. p, 248). Lepidoton-Polis was probably o*>

nected with the O.-irian worship, for, according

to the legend, Isis, in her search for the limbs of

0>iris, who had been cut into pieces by Typbon,

traversed the marshes in a boat made of papyrus

(Maris), and in whatsoever place she found a member,

there she buried it. In the end idie discovered all

the limbs, excepting one, which liad been devoured

by the fishes phagrtu and lepidohu. No remains of

Lepidotnn*Polis liave been discovered. [W. B. D.]

LEPO'XTII (AiproVnoi, Strab., Ptol.), an Al­

pine people, who inhabited the t alleys cm tbe south

side of the Alps, about the head of the two great

lakes, the Logo di Como and l^iyo Mngyuct.

Strabo tells us distinctly that they were a 1. tiacti

tribe (iv. p. 206), and adds that, like many others of

the minor Alpine tribe*, they had at one time spread

further into Italy, but had been gradually driven back

into tho mountains, (lb. p. 204.) There is some

difficulty in determining the position and limits ■ t

their territory. Caesar tells us that the Rhine took

its rise in the country of the Lepontii (B. 0. iv. 10),

aud Pliny says that tho L'beri (or Viberi), who were

a ti in* of the Lepontii, occupied the sources of tbe

Rhone (Plin. iii. 20. s. 24). Ptolemy, on the con­

trary (iii. 1. § 38), places them in the CoUian

Alps; but this is opposed to all the other statement*,

Strabo distinctly connecting them with the Khae-

Uans. Their name occurs also in the list of tbe

Alpine nations on the trophy of Augustus (<Jp>

/Via. /. i-.), in a manner quite in accordance m'h

the statements of Caesar and Pliny; and on tbe

