6 JAXARTES. JAXARTES.

JAXABTES, IAXARTES (6 'Ia{a>rT,0> the

river of Ontnl Asia which now hears tlie nam*

of Syr-Oaria, or Yellow liiver (Daria u the Generic

Tartar name fur all rirfrs, and iyr=" yellow "),

and which, watering the barren steppes of the

Kirghiz-Cottackt, was known to the civilised world

in the most remote aces.

The exploits of Cyrus and Alexander the Great

hare inscribed its name in history many centuries

before oar sera. If we are to believe the traditionary

statements about Cyrus, the left bonk of this- river

formed the N. limit of the vast dominion of that

conqueror, who built a town, deriving its name from

the founder [Ctkeschata], upon its banks; and it

was upon the right bank that he lost his life in

battle with Tuniyris, Queen of the Massagetae.

Herodotus (i. 201—216), who is the authority fur

this statement, was aware of the existence of the

Syr-Daria ; and although the name Jaxartes, which

was a denomination adopted by the Greeks and fol­

lowed by the Komans, does not appear in his his­

tory, yet the A raxes of Herodotus can be no other

than the actual Syr, because there is no other great

river in the country of the Massagetae. Much has

been written upon the mysterious river called Araxes

by Herodotus; M. De Guitrnes, Fosse, and Gatterer,

suppose that it is the same as the Oxus or Amou-

Ihiria ; M. De la Nauze sees in it the Araxes of

Armenia; while Bayer, St, Croix, and Larcher, con­

ceive that under this name the Volga is to be under­

stood. The true solution of the enigma seems to be

that which has been suggested by DAnville, that the

Araxes is an appellative common to the Atrwm, the

Armenian Artu, the Volga, and the Syr. (Cotnp.

Aiiaxks, p. 188; Mem. de I'Acad, drt Iiucr.ro].

xxxvi. j.p. 69 — 85; Heeren, Altai. Sationt, vol. ii.

p. If, trans.) From this it may be concluded, that

Herodotus liad some vague anmaintance with the

Syr, though he did not know it by name, but con­

founded it with the Araxes; nor was Aristotle more

successful, as the Syr, the Volga, and the Don,

have been recognised in the description of the

Araxes given in his Mrteorologics (i. 13. § 15),

which, it must be recollected, was written before

Alexander's expedition to India. (Comp. IdeJer, Ut-

teorolngia Vet. Grnecor. ei Rom. ad L c, Berol,

1832; St. Croix, A>amen Critique del Hut. a*Alex.

p. 703.)

A century after Herodotus, the physical geo­

graphy of this river-basin became well known to

the Greeks, from the expedition of Alexander to

Bactria and Sogdiana. In n. c. 329, Alexander

reached the Jaxartes, and, after destroying the seven

towns or fortresses upon that river the foundstion of

which was ascribed to Cyrus, founded a city, bearing

his own name, upon its banks, Alexamikeia

Ultima (Kknjend). (Q. Curt, vii. 6; Arrian, A nab.

ir. I. % 3.)

After the Macedonian conquest, the Syr is found

in all the ancient geographers under the form Jax­

artes; while the country to the N. of it bore the

general name of Scylhia, the tracts between the Syr

and Amom were called Transoxiana. The Jaxartes

is not properly ■ Gro-k wool, it was borrowed by

the Greeks from the Barbarians, by whom, as Ar­

rian (Anab. ail. 30. § 13) asserts, it was railed

Orxantes ('Oa^simii). Various etymologies of this

name have been given (St. Croix, Kxamen Critii/ite

drt HUt. J A lex. § 6), but they are too uncertain

'o be relied on: but whatever be the derivation of

i word, certain it is that the Syr appears in all

| ancient writers under the name Jaxartes. Some,

indeed, confounded the Jaxartes and the TanaTs, and

that purposely, as will be seen hereafter. A few

have confounded it with the Oxus; while all, without

exception, were of opinion that both the Jaxartes

and the Oxus discharged their waters into the Cas-

| pian, and not into the Sea of Aral. It seems, at

tint sight, curious, to those who know, the true pi»i-

tion of these rivers, that the Greeks, in describing

i their course, and determining the distance of their

respective "embouchures," should hsve taken the

Sea of Aral for the Caspian, and that their mistake

should have been repeated up to very recent times.

Von Humboldt (Asie Centrale, vol. ii. pp. 162—

297) — to whose extensive inquiry we owe an inva­

luable digest of the views entertained respecting the

geography of the Caspian and Oxus by classical,

Arabian, and European writers and travellers, along

with the latest investigations of Russian scientific

and military men — arrives at these conclusions re­

specting the ancient junction of the Aral, Oxus, and

Caspian:

1st. That, at a period before the historical era,

hut nearly approaching to those revolutions which

preceded it, tlie great depression of Central Asia —

the concavity of 7«rnn — may have been one large

interior sea, connected on the one hand with tlie

Kuxine, on the other hand, by channels more or less

broad, with the Icy Sea, and the Balluuk and its

adjoining lakes.

2nd. That, probably in the time of Herodotus,

and even so late as the Macedonian invasion, the

Aral was merely a bay or gulf of the Caspian, con-

netted with it by a lateral prolongation, into which

the Oxus flowed.

3rd. That, by the preponderance of evaporation

over the supply of water by the rivers, or by dilu­

vial deposits, or by Plutonic convulsions, the Aral

and Caspian were separated, and a bifurcation of

the Oxus developed,— one portion of its waters con­

tinuing its course to the Caspian, the other termi­

nating in the Aral.

4th. That the continued preponderance of evapo­

ration has caused the channel communicating with

the Caspian to dry up.

At present it must be allowed that, in theaWnce

of more data, the existence of this great Aralo-Cas-

pian basin within the "historic period," must be a

moot point; though the geological appesrances prove

by the equable distribution of the same peculiar or­

ganic remains, that the tract between the Aral and

the Caspian was once the bed of an united and con­

tinuous sea, and that the Caspian of the present

day is the small residue of the once mighty Aralo-

Caspian Sea.

Strabo (xi. pp. 507—517) was acquainted with

the true position of this river, and lias ex|«*«l the

errors committed by the historians of Alexander

(p. 508), who confounded the mountains of the 1'a-

ropamisus —or raropanisus, as all the good MSS. of

l'tolcmy read (Atie Centrale, vol. i. pp. 114—118)

— with the Caucasus, and the Jaxartes with the

TanaVs. All this was itiiagined with a view of exalting

the glory of Alexander, so that the great conqueror

might be supposed, after subjugating Asia, to have

arrived at the Ikm and the Caucasus, the *-ene of

the legend where Hercules unbound the chains of

the fire-bringing Titan.

The Jaxartes, according to Strabo (p. 510), took Its

rise in the mountains of India, and he determines it

as the [rutilier between Sogdiana and the nomad Scy-

