ITALIA. ITALIA. 95

dison. Remarks on Italy). (See this question fully

discussed and investigated by Znmpt, uber den

Stand tkr BeciUxrung im AUertkum. 4to. Berlin,

1841.)

Gallia Cisalpina, including Venctia and the part

of LisurU N. of the Apennines, seems to have been

by far the most flourishing and populous part of

Italy under the Roman empire. Its extraordinary

natural resources had been brought into cultivation

at a comparatively late period, and were still unex­

hausted: nor had it suffered so much from the civil

wars which had given a fatal blow to the prosperity

of the re.-t of Italy. It would appear also to have

ken comparatively free from the system of culti­

vation by slave labour which had proved so ruinous

to the more southern regions. The younger Pliny,

nvlml. mentions that his estate near Comum, and all

those in its neighbourhood, were cultivated wholly by

free labourers, (l'lin. Ep. iii. 19.) In the latter

sjes of the Kmpire, also, the establishment of the

imperial court at Mediolanum (which continued

from the time of Maximum to that of Honorius)

must have given a fresh stimulus to the prosperity

of this favoured region. But when the Empire was

no longer able to guard the barrier of the Alps

against the irruptions of barbarians, it was on

Kortlieni Italy that the first brunt of their devas­

tations naturally fell; and the numerous and npu-

leiit cities in the plains of the Padus were plundered

in succession by the Goths, the Huns, and the

Loot bards.

VII. Authorities.

Considering the celebrity of Italy, and the im­

portance which it enjoyed, not only under the Ro-

mans but during the middle ages, and the facility

of access which has rendered it so favourite a resort

of travellers in modern times, it seems strange that

our knowledge of its ancient geography should be

still very imperfect Yet it cannot be denied that

this is the case. The first disadvantage nnder

which we labour is, that our ancient authorities

themselves are far from being as copious or satis-

fa:t/iry as might be expected. The account given

o; Strabo, though marked by much of his usual

p»«t sense and judgment, is by no means sufficiently

ampie or detailed to meet all oar requirements. He

lad aUo comparatively little interest in, and was

probably himself but imperfectly acquainted with,

lit early history of Rome, and therefore did not

eaw to notice, or inquire after, places which had

fibred in that history, but were in his time sunk

hit" decay or oblivion. Mela dismisses the geo-

Crapht of Italy very hastily, as being too well known

to leqaire a detailed description (ii. 4. § 1): while

Piiiiy, on the contrary, apologises for passing but

lightly over so important and interesting a subject,

itf account of the impossibility of doing it justice

(iii. 5. s. 6). His enumeration of the different

PzkiH and the towns they contained is nevertheless

of the greatest value, and in all probability based

upon authentic materials. But he almost wholly

reelects the physical geography, and enumerates the

island towns of each district in alphabetical order,

vi that his mention of them gives us no assistance

ia determining their position. Ptolemy's lists of

tames are far less authentic and trustworthy than

thaw of Pliny; and the positions which he professes

to give are often but little to be depended on. The

Itineraries afford valuable assistance, and perhaps

tbm it op country for which they are more useful

and trustworthy guides; but they fail us exactly

where we are the most in want of assistance,—in the

more remote and unfrequented parts of Italv, or

those districts which in the latter ages of the Em­

pire had fallen into a state of decay and desolation.

One of the most important aids to the determination

of ancient localities is unquestionably the preserva­

tion of the ancient names, which have often been

transmitted almost without change to the present

day; and even where the name is now altered, we

are often enabled by ecclesiastical records to trace

the ancient appellation down to the middle ages,

and prove both the fact and the origin of its altera­

tion. In numerous instances (such as Aletium,

Sipontum, &c.) an ancient church alone records the

existence and preserves the name of the decayed

city. But two circumstances must guard us against

too hasty an inference from the mere evidence of

name: the one, that it not unfrequently happened,

during the disturbed periods of the middle ages,

that the inhabitants of an ancient town would mi­

grate to another site, whether for security or other

reasons, and transfer their old name to their new

abode. Instances of this will be found in the cases

of Abellinum, Aufidena, &c, and the most re­

markable of all in that of Capua. Another source

of occasional error is that the present appellations of

localities are sometimes derived from erroneous tra­

ditions of the middle ages, or even from the misap­

plication of ancient names by local writers on the

first revival of learning.

One of the most important and trustworthy auxi­

liaries in the determination of ancient names and

localities, that of inscriptions, unfortunately requires,

in the ca-e of Italy, to be received with much caro

and caution. The perverted ingenuity or misguided

patriotism of many of the earlier Italian antiquarians

frequently led them either to fabricate or interpolate

such documents, and this with so much skill and

show of learning, that many such fictitious or apo­

cryphal inscriptions have found their way into the

collections of Gruter, Muratori, and Orclli, and have

been cited in succession by numerous modern writers.

Mommsen has conferred a great service upon tho

student of Italian antiquities by subjecting all

the recorded inscriptions belonging to the kingdom

of Naples to a searching critical inquiry, and dis­

carding from his valuable collection {Inscriptionea

Regni Neapolitan* Latinae, fol. Lips. 1852) all

those of dubious authenticity. It is much to be

desired that the same task may be undertaken for

those of the rest of Italy.

The comparative geography of ancient and mo­

dern Italy had more or less engaged the attention of

scholars from the first revival of learning. But of the

general works on the subject, those before the time of

Cluverius may be regarded more as objects of cu­

riosity than as of much real use to the student.

Biondo Flavio (Blondus Flavius) is the earliest

writer who has left us a complete and connected

view of Italian topography, in his Italia JUiutrata

(first published in 1474, afterwards with his other

works at Basle, in 1531 and 1559): after him

came Leandro Alberti, whose Detcrizione di tutta

Italia (Venice, 1551) contains some valuable no­

tices. But the great work of Cluverius {Italia

Antigua, 2 vols. fol. Lugd. Bat. 1624) altogether

superseded those whicb had preceded him, and

became the foundation of all subsequent inquiries.

Cluverius has not only brought together, with tho

most praiseworthy diligence, all the passages of

