I.OCKI. LOCRIS. 201

aderable detail; but Procopius seems to attest its

continued existence in the 6th century (B. G. i. 15),

and it is probable that it owed its complete de­

struction to the Saracens, Its very name was for­

gotten in the middle ages, and its site became a

matter of dispute. This has however been com­

pletely established by the researches of modem

travellers, who have found the remains of the

ancient city on the sea-coast, near the modern town

of Gtraa. (Cluver, Ital.f. 1301; Komanelli, vol. i.

p. 152; Cramer, vol. ii. p. 411; Kiedesel, Voyage

lions la Grande Grcot, p. 148.)

The few ruins that still remain have been care­

fully examined and described by the Due de Luynes.

(A*n.d. Inst. Arch. vol. ii. pp. 3—12.) The site

of the ancient city, which may be distinctly traced

by the vestiges of the walls, occupied a space of

near two miles in length, by less than a mile in

breadth, extending from the sea-coast at Torre di

Gerace (on the left bank of a small stream called

the ftien* di S. llano}, to the first heights or

rkices of the Apennines. It is evidently to these

heights that Strabo gives the name of Mount Esopis

("E<j»t«), on which he places the first foundation of

the city. (Strab. vi. p. 259.) The same heights

art separated by deep ravines, so as to constitute two

separate summits, both of them retaining the traces

of ancient fortifications, and evidently the "two

citadels not far distant from each other" noticed by

I.ny in his account of the capture of the city by

Scipia. (Liv. xxix. 6.) The city extended from

hence down the slopes of the hills towards the sea,

and had unquestionably its port at the mouth of the

little river 5. Ilario, though there could never have

been a harbour there in the modern sense of the

terra. Numerous fragments of ancient masonry are

scattered over the site, but the only distinct vestiges

trfsnv ancient edifice are those of a Doric temple, of

which the basemeut alone now remains, but several

columns were standing down to a recent period. It

is occupied by a farm-house, called the Casino deli

Imperatore, about a mile from the sea, and appears

to have stood without the ancient walls, so that it is

Dot improbable the ruins may be the remains of the

celebrated temple of Proserpine, which we know to

bte occupied a similar position. (Liv. xxix. 18.)

The ruins of Locri are about five miles distant from

the modern town of Gerace, which was previously

rappsed to occupy the site of the ancient city

(Cluver, I c; Barr. de Sit Calabr. iii. 7), and 15

nuies from the Capo di Bruzzano, the Zephyrian

promontory.

The Locrians are celebrated by Pindar (01. x. 18,

xi. 19) for their devotion to the Muses as well as fur

their skill and courage in war. In accordance with this

character we fiud mention of Xenocritus and Kra-

«ippn.«, both of them natives of Locri, as pests of

neae note; the lyric poetess Theano was probably

alw a native of the Epizephyrian Locri. (Schol. ail

P'md. 01. xi. 1"; Boeckh, ad 01. x. p. 197.) The

Pnragorean philosophy also was warmly taken up

•ad cultivated there, though the authorities had

refused to admit any of the political innovations of

taat philosopher. (Porpbyr. ViL Pyth. 56.) But

•rant; his followers and disciples several were

•atite» of Locri (IajnbL Vit. Pyth. 267), the most

aninent of whom were Timaeus, Echecrates. and

Anion, from whom Plato is said to have imbibed

ku knowledge of the Pythagorean tenets. (Cic. de

F*. v. 29.) Nor was the cultivation of other arts

•eglected. Eunomus, a Locrian citizen, was cele.

brated for his skill on the cithara; and the athlete

Euthymus of Locri, who gained several prizes at

Olympia, was scarcely less renowned than Milo of

Crotona. (Strab. vi. pp. 255, 260; Paus. vi. 6.

§§ 4 — 11.)

The territory of Locri, during the flourishing

period of the city, was certainly of considerable

extent. Its great augmentation by Dionysius of

Syracuse has been already mentioned. But previous

to that time, it was separated from that of lihegium

on the SW. by the river Halex or Alice, while its

northern limit towards Caulonia was probably the

Sagras. generally identified with the Alaro. The

river Buthrotus of Livy (xxix. 7), which appears

to have been but a short distance from the town,

was probably the Novito, about six miles to the N.

Thucydides mentions two other colonies of Locri

(besides Hipponium and Medina already noticed),

to which he gives the names of Itone and Melaa,

but no other trace is found of either the one or the

other. (Time. v. 5.) [E. H. B.]

COIN OF THE LOCRI EFIZKPIIYIUI.

LOCRIS (Aoiepts: Eth. Aotcpol; in Latin also

Locri, but sometimes Locrenses). The Locri were

an ancient people in Greece, and were said to have

been descended from the Leleges. This was the

opinion of Aristotle; and other writers supposed the

name of the Locrians to be derived from Locrus,

an ancient king of the Leleges. (Aristot.; Hes. ap.

Strab. fix. p. 3*22; Scymnus Ch. 590; Dicaearch.

71; Plin. iv. 7. s. 12.) The Locrians, however,

must at a very early period have Iwcome inter­

mingled with the Hellenes. In the Homeric poems

they always appear as Hellenes; and, according to

some traditions, even Deucalion, the founder of the

Hellenic race, is said to have lived in the Locrian

town of Opus or Cynus. (Find. 01. ix. 63, seq.;

Strab. ix. p. 425.) In historical times the Locrians

were divided into two distinct tribes, differing from

one another in customs, habits, and civilisation. Of

these the eastern Locrians, called the Opuntii and

Epicnemidii, dwelt upon the eastern coast of Greece,

opposite the isbind of Euboea; while the western

Locrians dwelt upon the Corinthian gulf, and were

separated from the former by Mount Parnassus and

the whole of Doris and Phocis. (Strab. ix. p. 425.)

The eastern Locrians are alone mentioned by Homer;

they were the more ancient and the more civilised:

the western Locrians, who arc said to have been a

colony of the former, are not mentioned in history

till the time of the Peloponncsian War, and are even

then represented as a semi-barbarous people. (Thue.

i. 5.) We may conjecture that the Locrians at one

time extended from sea to sea, and were torn

asunder by the immigration of the Phociuns and

Dorians. (Niebuhr, Lectures on Ancient Kymo­

graphy, vol. i. p. 123.)

1. Locri Epicnemidii and Ofuntii ('Eh-ik-

vquihioi, 'OxoiVr.oi), inhabited a narrow slip upon

the eastern coast of Greece, from the pass of Ther­

mopylae to the mouth of the river Cephissus.

