346 MESSENIACUS SINUS. METAPONTUM.

cf the western coast stood Mkthonk, supposed to

be the Homeric Pedasus. North of Methone, on the

\V. coast, was Pyi.L'8, on the promontory Corypha-

sium, opposite to which was the island Sphacteria.

Further north, was the small town Ekana, and

then the more important Cyfakissia; beyond which

was a place Aulon, at the entrance of the defile of

this name, through which flowed the river Cy-

parissus.

(On the geography of Messerua, see Leake, Morea,

vol. i. pp. 324, seq.; Boblaye, Richerchet, p. 103,

aeq; Curtius, Ptloponncsot, vol ii. p. 121, seq.)

COIH Or MKSSKMIA.

MESSENIACUS SINUS. [Mehsknia.]

MESUA, in Gallia Narboncnsis, is described by

Mela (ii. 5) *' as a hill surrounded by the sea almost

on all sides, and it would be an island if it were not

joined to the mainland by a narrow agger." The

place is supposed to be Mam or Mt-ze.. on the border

of the 1 in--] de Ton, between Agde and ifonl-

pellier. [G. L.]

METAGONITAE (MeTo-yamTa!, Ptol. iv. 2.

§ 10), a people of Mauritania, between the Mulu-

cha and the Pillars of Hercules. Their name re­

calls the t i:i.i •, MKTAOOxrriCAr. (MtTaywtiiTwv

wdAtit, Polyb. iii. 33), or settlements founded by the

Carthaginian? on the NW. coast, and which seem to

have formed a regular chain from their frontier to

the Pillars of Hercules (Scyl. p. 81). These marts

enabled the republic to carry on inland trade with

the nomad tribes, as well as to keep open a commu*

nication by land with Spain. (Heeren, African

NiUif>iu, vol. i. p. 52, transl.) [E. B. .1.]

METAGONTTES PROM. (M.TcrywiTnt &*,*,•>,

Ptol. iv. 1. § 7), a headland of Mauretania Tingi-

tana, W. of the Mulucha, now Cape Tret Forcat or

Jitit~tid-f)ehir of the natives. [E. B. J.]

METAGO'NIUM (MenrycovioK, Strab. xvii. pp.

827—829 ; Pomp. Mela, i. 7. § 1), a headland of

N. Africa, which Strabo (i c.) places over against

Carthago Nova, at a distance of 3000 stadia. He

describes the district about it as being dry and

barren, and bearing the same name ; the headland is

now called Jiat-eUHartbab. (Coup. Shaw, Trur.

p. 94.) [E.B.J.]

METALLI'NUM. [MKTrxuxuM.]

MEIALLUM. [Matalia.]

METAPA (ii M*vowa: Fill. Mtrawaiot, Mera-

vtvj),atown in Aetolia,situateilon the northern shore

of the lake Trichonis, at the entrance of a narrow

defile, and 60 stadia from Thermnm. It was burnt

by Philip, on his invasion of Aetolia, B.C. 218, as

he returned from the capture of Thermnm. Its site

cannot he fixed with certainty, notwithstanding the

description of Polybius. I<eake places it immediately

below Vrakkori, near the eastern extremity of the

lake Hyria, or the smaller of the two lakes; sup­

pling that as these two lakes are connected witb

one another, the larger division may often have given

name to the whole. (Pol. v. 7, 13; Stepli. B. «. ».;

Leake, Northern Greece, vol. i. p. 150, seq. j tan.

TllKKMl'M.)

METAPINUM OSTIUM. [RHonAHra.]

METAPONTUM or METAPONTUM (Mrra-

TOKrtov: Thuc, Strab., and all Greek writers haw

this form; the Latins almost universally Metapue-

tuin: F.th. MeTaroFTirof, Paus., Steph. B-, ana

on coins; but Herod, has MeTaayfrriw; in 1 ■til

Metapontinus: Ru. near Torre di Mart), as bn-

portant city of Magna Graecia, situated on the rail

of Tarentum, between the river Bradanus and lh*

Casuentus. It was distant about 14 miles fran

Heraclea and 24 from Tarentum. Historically

speaking, there is no doubt that Metaponttun was a

Greek city founded by an Achaean colony; but va­

rious traditions assigned to it a much earlier origin.

Strabo ascribes its foundation to a body of Pyiians a

part of those who had followed Nestor to Troy

(Strab. v. p. 222, vi. p. 264); while Justin tells as

it was founded by Epeius, the hero who constructed

the wooden horse at Troy; in proof of which the in­

habitants showed, in a temple of Minerva, the taola

used by him on that occasion. (Justin, xx. 1 )

Another tradition, reported by Ephoros (ap. Sink.

p. 264), assigned to it a Phocian origin, and called

Daulius, the tyrant of Crisa near Delphi, its founder.

Other legends carried back its origin to a still Bora

remote period. Antiochos of Syracuse said that it

was originally called Mctabua, from _a hero of that

name, who appears to have been identified witb the

Mctapontns who figured in the Greek mythical

story as the husband of Melanippe and father of

Aeolus and Boeotus. (Antioch. ap. Strab. L e.;

Hygin. Fab. 186; Eustath. ad Diunye. Ptr. 368;

Diod. iv. 67.)

Whether there may have really been a settlemect

on the spot more ancient than the Achaean colony,

we have no means of determining; but we are toid

that at the time of the foundation of this city the

site was unoccupied; for which reason the Achaean

settlers at Crotona and Sybaris were deairoaj te

colonise it, in order to prevent the Tarentines front

taking possession of it. With this view a

was sent from the mother-country, under the <

mand of a leader named Leucippus, who, I

to one account, was compelled to obtain the te

by a fraudulent treaty. Another and a more

sibie statement is that the new colonists wen at

first engaged in a contest with the Tarrntinea, as

well as the neighbouring tribes of the Oei»«nans,

which was at length terminated by a treaty, leaving

them in the peaceable possession of the territvy

they had acquired. (Strab. vi. pp. 264, 265.) The

date of the colonisation of Metapontum cannot b>

determined with certainty; but it was i liileaali.

from the circumstances just related, subsequent t>

that of Tarentum, aa well as of Sybaris and Crotona:

hence the date assigned by Eusebion, who woaM

carry it back as far as B.C. 774, la wholly un­

tenable; nor is it easy to see bow such an error ran

have arisen. (Euseb. Arm. Ckron. p. 99.) It may

probably be referred to about 700—490 B. c

We hear very little of Metapontum daring the

first ages of its existence; but it seems certain than

it rose rapidly to a considerable amount of nreaprr-.tv,

for which it was indebted to the extreme frrtihry af

its territory. The same policy which had lad to its

foundation would naturally unite it in the bands of n

close alliance with the other Achaean cities. Sybaris

and Crotona; and the first occasion on which at

meet with it* name in history is as jr.

