SABISL 867 SABINI.

«. tad on (heir sacerdotal as well as religious in-

j'Jom. This is in entire accordance with the

nrirr given of the Sabines by Varro and Pliny;

! it u 00 wonder therefore that the traditions of

l:.»n».n generally ascribed to Numa, the Sabine

;. tht whole, or by far the greater part, of the

;'.-n» institutions of their country, in the same

:rnr u they did the military and political ones

ku predecessor Komulus. Numa, indeed, be-

rreat extent the representative, or rather

mprvnatkm of the Sabine element of the

■n people; at the same time that he was so

raBy regarded as the founder of all religious

- «nd institutions, that it became customary to  
is* to mm even those which were certainly not

•bine origin, but belonged to the Latins or were

"J from Alba. (Ambrosch, Stwlien, pp. 141

U; Sehwrgler, R. G. vol. i. pp. 543, 554.)

hnoiriwat these earliest traditions concerning

rrUtuins of the Sabines with Rome, Cures is

aty that appears to take the most prominent

rstius himself was king of Cures (Dionys.

r0: and it was thither also that the patricians

•fler the interregnum, to seek out the wise

■scAeNama. (Lit. i. 18; Dionys. ii. 58.) A

man striking proof of the connection of the

u> Sabine* with Cures was found in the name

x:ritn», which came to be eventually applied to

>i"k Riman people, and which was commonly

i-n-J as immediately derived from that of Cures.

L 13; Varr. L. L. vi. 68; Dionys. ii. 46;

i v. p. 828.) But this etymology is, to say

■at extremely doubtful; it is far more probable

\:» name of Qnirites was derived from44 quiris,"

ir. sari meant merely " spearmen" or " war-

jurt as Quirinos was the "spear-god," or

I «v, closely connected, though not identical

Vlimm or Mara. It is certain also that this

■rity of Carat, if it ever really existed, ceased

*"7 early period. No subsequent allusion to it is  
a' Ktxuan history, and the city itself was in his-

I tinea • very inconsiderable place. [C LIVES-]

<■ clue union thus established between the

■ and the Sabines who had settled themselves

• '/a rioal did Dot secure the rising city from

its with the rest of the nation. Already in

>n "f Tullas Hnstilius, the successor of Numa,

d tin! monarch engaged in hostilities with the

- *l>oee territory he invaded. The decisive  
is said to hare taken place at a forest called

Mtirtraa, the site of which is unknown. (Liv.

hwa iai. 82, 33.) During the reign of

i iUrrius, who is represented as himself of

■ l-"-mt (he was a grandson of Numa), no

with the Sabines occur; bat his successor

-Mjs Prisms was engaged in a war with that  
which appears to have been of a formidable

J' vi. The Sabines, according to Livy, began

*^ Inr crossing the Anio ; and after their final  
>• m tohl that they were deprived of Col-

r-i the adj<iining territory. (Liv. i. 36—38;

1.1:. 3J— 66.) Cicero also speaks of Tarquin

"'■««g the Sabines from the very walls of the

(Cte. ei> Sep. H. 20.) There seems there-

'l«iht that they bad at this time extended

prvrr to the right bank of the Anio, and made

-* masters of a considerable part of the

- > »hirli had previously belonged to the Latins.  
t-„* Time no further mention of them occurs

ljVtt of Home till after the expulsion of the

*ul in b. c. 504. after the repulse of Porseoa,

a Sabine war again broke out. and from this time

that people appears almost as frequently among the

enemies of Rome, as the Veientes or the Volsciana.

But the renewal of hostilities was marked by one in­

cident, which exercised a permanent effect on Roman

history. The whole of one clan of the Sabines,

headed by a leader named Atta Clausus, dissenting

from the policy of their countrymen, migrated in a

body to Rome, where they were welcomed as citizens,

and gave rise to the powerful family and tribe of the

Claudii. (Liv. ii. 16; Dionys. v. 40 ; Virg. Am.

vii. 708;Tacisn»i. xi.24; Appian, Rom. i. Fr. 11.)

It is unnecessary to recapitulate in detail the ac­

counts of the petty wars with the Sabines in the early

ages of the Republic, which present few features of

historical interest. They are of much the same ge­

neral character as those with the Veientes and the

Volsciana, but for some reason or other seem to have

been a much less favourite subject for popular legend

and national vanity, and therefore afford few of those

striking incidents and romantic episodes with which

the others have been adorned. Livy indeed disposes

of them for the most part in a very summary manner;

but they are related in considerable detail by Diony-

sius. One thing, however, is evident, that neither

the power nor the spirit of the Sabines had been

1 roken; as 11 icy are represented in B. c. 469, as

carrying their ravages up to the very gates of Rome;

and even in B. c. 449, when the decisive victory of

M. Iloratius was followed by the capture of the

Sabine camp, we are told that it was found full of

booty, obtained by the plunder of the Roman terri­

tories. (Liv. ii.'l6, 18, &c, iii. 26, 30, 38, 61—

63; Dionys. v. 37—47, vi. 31, &c.) On this, as

on several other occasions, Kretnm appears as the

frontier town of the Sabines, where they established

their head-quarters, and from whence they made in­

cursions into the Roman territory.

There is nothing in the accounts transmitted to us

of this victory of M. Iloratius over the Sabines to

distinguish it from numerous othor instances of simi­

lar successes, but it seems to have been really of

importance ; at least it wis followed by the remark­

able result that the wars with the Sabines, which

for more than fifty years had been of such perpetual

recurrence, ceased altogether from this time, and for

more than a century and a half the name of the

Sabines is scarcely mentioned in history. The cir­

cumstance is the more remarkable, because during

a great part of this interval the Romans were en­

gaged in a fierce contest with the Samnites, the de­

scendants of the Sabines, but who do not appear to

have maintained any kind of political relation with

their progenitors. Of the terms of the peace which

subsisted between the Sabines and Romans during

this period we have no account. Niebuhr's conjec­

ture that they enjoyed the rights of isopolity with

the Romans (vol. ii. p. 447) is certainly without

foundation; and they appear to hare maintained a

position of simple neutrality. We are equally at a

loss to understand what should hare induced them

at length suddenly to depart from this policy, but

in the year B. c. 290 we find the Sabines once more

in arms against Rome. They were, however, easily

vanquished. The consul M'. Curius Dentatus, who

had already put an end to the Third Samnite War,

next turned his arms against the Sabines, and re­

duced them to submission in the course of a single

campaign. (Liv. Epit. xi.; Vict. IVr. 11L 33;

Oms. iii. 22; Flor. i. 15.) They were severely

punished lor their defection; great numbers of pri­

3 K 2

