PEGASEUM. PELASGI. 561

trances from Illyricum into Macedonia by the course

of the river Union. Between the NE. extremity,

Mt. Ljubatrin, and the Klisura of Verdi, there are

in the mighty and continuous chain of Scardu.s

(above 7000 feet high) only two passes fit for an

army to cross, one near the N. extremity of tho

chain from Kalkandelc to Pritrendi or Perurrin,

a very high " col," not less than 5000 feet above the

sea-level; the other considerably to the S , and lower

as well as easier, nearly in the latitude of A 'kridha.

Leake {Northern Greece, vol. iii. pp. 318—322) is of

opinion that the passes of Pelagonia. in which Per­

seus was stationed by his father Philip, were this

latter depression in the chain over which the modern

road from Scvdra or Scutari runs, and the Via

Egnatia travelled formerly. The lllyrian An

atae and Dardani, to the N. of Pelagonia, no doubt

threatened Macedonia from the former ]jass, to the

NE. of the mountain-chain of Scardus. (Comp.

Grote, Greece, c. xxv. and the references there to

Pouqueville, Boue', Grisebach, and Miiller.) Stym-

bara or Stubara, was situated apparently on tho

Erigon, as also were most of the Pelagonian towns.

Polybius (r. 108) speaks of a Pelagonian town

named Pissakiim (nnrffaibi'). Ptolemy (/. c.) as­

signs to the Pelagones the two towns of Andra-

ristus or Euristus (Peut. Tab., the orthography

is not quite certain), and Stobi. [E. B. J ]

PELASGI (nfAewrvo!), an ancient race, widely

spread over Greece and the coasts and islands of the

Aegean sea in prehistoric times. We also find traces

of them in Asia Minor and Italy.

I. The Pclasgiatu in Greece.—The earliest men­

tion of the Pelasgi is in Homer (//. ii. 681), who

enumerates several Thessalian tribes as furnishing

a contingent under the command of Achilles, and

among thein * those who dwelt in Pelasgian Argot."

Homer also speaks of Epirus as a chief abode of tho

Pelasgi; for Achilles addresses Zeus as ActcWaie,

TlthatryiKi. (//. xvi. 233.) And this agrees with

Hesiod's description of Dodona as the "seat of the

Pelasgi." (Fragm. xviii.) So in the Suppliers of

Aeschylus, the king declares himself to be ruler c.f

the country through which the Algus and the

Stryinon flow, and also of the whole of the land of

the Perrhaebi, near the Paeonians, and the Dodom-an

mountains, as far as the sea. (Suppl. 250, sex].).

Herodotus tells us he found traces of the Pelasgi at

Dodona, where he says they worshipped all the gi»i •,

without giving a name to any (ii. 52). Compare

his mythic account of the two priestesses at Dodona

(ii. 56) with Homer's description of the Selli. {II.

xvi. 234, seq.)

Strabo (v. p. 221, C.) says: M Nearly all are agreed

about the PeLisgi, that they were an ancient trilwi

(QtwAoy) spread over the whole of Helta*, and espe­

cially by the side of the Aeolians in Thcssaly. . . .

And that part of Thessaly is called Pelasgian Argon,

which extends from the coast between the outlet of

the Peneius and Thermopylae as far as the mountain

range of Pindus, because the Pelasgians were master*

of that region."*

We also hear of the Pelasgi in Boeotia, where

they dwelt for a time, after having, in conjunction

with the Thracians, driven out the Aones, Tenmrices,

Leleges and Hyalites. Afterwards they were, in

their turn, driven out by the former inhabitants, and

took refuge at Athens under Mt. Hymettus, part of

fUirJooiaj, who in the night had discharged their

it the rock nnder the impulse of Artemis,

-.i.z; it for the enemy. In commemoration of  
ia m.t, there was a brazen statue of Artemis

(an it Parse. (Pans. L 44. § 4.) Pegae is

"CMiti'jMd in the following passages:—Strab. ix.

x400,409; Pans. i. 41. §8; Ptol. iii. 15. § 6;

i|a.L(.r.; Mela. iii. 3. § 10; Plin. iv. 7. s. 11;

•rod p. (45: Tab. Peat., where it is called Pache.

is'.e u now occupied by the port of Psatho, not

r tnm the shore of which are found the remains of

mat Irtrets. (Leake, Northern Greece, vol.

i«7.)

rWASFni STAGNUM, a small lake in the

irttun plain near Ephesus, from which issues

> kilt river Phyrites, a tributary of the Caystrus.

to r. J|.) The district surrounding the lake is

prremt an extensive morass. (Comp. Arundell,

fWdka, p. 23, &c) [L. S.]

rtiiUEEVS. [Athexae, p. 306 ]

PElitAEUS and PEIRAEUM, iu Corinthia. [p.

y

nOAEOi [Ambus.]

fEttrSE PONS. [CouSTBtrt, p. 680, b.]

PUEESIAE. [AaTEtuuM.]

rtttli [Aciiaia, p. 13, b.]

tOsO. [Pino.]

Ell'51 (DW), a fortress of the Tolistoboii, in

■a. "bert Ueiotarus kept his treasures. (Strab.

»M7.)

tUGOTilA (ntAa-yori'o, Strab. vii. pp. 326,

. H^tytmia. Steph. B.). a district of Macedonia,

■" on Dlvricnm, occupied by the Pelagones

*r*n, Strab. vu. pp. 327, 331, Fr. 38—40,  
I Hal ii 13. § 34; Plin. iv.17). Although Livy

tm tte name of Pelagonia, corresponding with

It- ' plains of Bitolia, in his narrative of the

Hr» O* Solptcius, aa that of a large district

Uit htymbara, it is evident, from his account

• •. ti of Macedonia after the Roman con-

'•'»: Pelagonia became the appellation of the

rlo»a of the Pelagones, and the capital of the

talataiaaia, which included all the primitive

Macedonia E. of the range of Pindus and

(Ut. xlr 29.) It was perhaps not spe-

•' r:. ployed as the name of a town until the

'hnauei of Pelagonia were ruined; for that

1*^ <* a portion of it, once contained three,

°" udemd from the adjunct Tripolitis,

iVI srStrabo(rii. p 327). The town, which,

fi* nrrutnxtance of its having been the capital

>I r.i. Macedonia, most have been of some

existed till a late period, as it is noticed

'•Ifwimu of Hierocles, and by the Byzan-

'--' a, Malcbna of Philadelphia, who speaks

'«mj(rth of iu citadel (op. Const. Porph.

T- * Ujat p. 81). From its advantageous

* * was occupied by Manuel Cotnnenus, in

* *cb (jtiaa II. and the Hungarians. (Nicet.  
|u Rfmo. Bat Empire, »ol. xvi. p 141.) The

«' Pclaerana still exists as the designation of

*' -*:rcsulitan bishopric of Bitolia or Ho-  
\ a* tbt chief place of the surrounding

<1 ai tat ordinary residence of the governor

At or near tlie town are many ves-

■afcbaat buildings of Roman times. The dis-

*» expued to invasions from the Dardani,  
*i"*l <■ the N., for which reasons the com-  
■» ("bum Pelagoniae," Liv. xxxi. 34)

■aetSj guarded by the kings of Macedonia,

p mat importance, as one of the direct en-

* Argos probably means a plain, see Krusca  
//ctfus (vol. i. p. 404).

o o

