SCYTHIA. M9 SCYTHIA.

i*» rwirvs of the rireni and at their licad-watcrs)

«* i Tort practicable character.

Moi'XTAi!t&—These were the eastern continuation

«f tfct Carpathians, and the hills of the Crimea or

: ura. These were but imperfectly known to Hero-

Likes, [See Exampaf.cs and Bens.]

Towaa, exclusively Greek colonies. [See Olbi-

orou»; Paxticavaecm.]

fcroad the Saurornatae («. r.) lay "other

*7tbisi», who, having revolted from the Royal,  
n*.:}'M this country,** L e. some part of Orenburg

ft »x

ThitJlr, there were the Sacae, whom we may

l i the Scythians of the Persian frontier. Their

*■-j parry was the parts conterminous with Bactria,  
•■-'j it *u under Darius, the son of Hystaspes, that

*rr, along with the Bactrians, joined in the invasion  
t Greece. Their dress was other than Buctrian,

**4iog of a pointed turban, a bonnet, leggings,  
atrrv bows, daggers, and the axe called odyapit

- n totU which is probably technical. There were  
rrthae Anryrgii, truly, however, Scythae, inasmuch

1 tie Persians called all the Scythians by the name

teas. Under the reign of Cyrus they were in-

~."*Mjt. Under Darius, they, along with the

.■fu. formed the 15th satrapy (iii. 93). This

facets them with their frontagers on the west,

-*r than the east.

TVre m no difficulty, however, in fixing them.

m AUrrabad to Balk they extended along the

rtVre frootier of Persia, in the area, and probably

t « ancestors, of the present Turcomans and

'it The name Amyrgii will be noticed in the

rarl

TV Sacae, if not separated from the " other Sey-

d* by the greater part of Independent Tartary,

% it any rate, a population that presented itself

:t* informants of Herodotus under a different

set. The Sacae were what the Persians found

nVnr northern frontier. The eastern Scythae

ft the Scythians beyond the Saurornatae, aa they'

e&mi to the occupants of the parts about the

mm.

: • not difficult to see the effect of these three

of rww cpon future geographers. With Scy-

m m Transylvania, Scythians in Orenburg, with

fcane (even though called Sacae) in Kkorasan

rnmmiiM, and with a terra incognita between,

tame cannot but fail to take upon itself an in­

ure amount of generality. The three isolated

■ will be connected; and the historical or eth-

peal rarity wi'l give way to a geographical. At

"jt, biwrever, there is a true unity over the

|p of Scjthia in the way both of

^r»ioc*oirr akd Hawnek8.—The physical

,a-ra*ion of the Scythians is not only mentioned

Uttaily by Herodotus, but in a more special

by Hippocrates: "The Scythian 7«Vof

twlrfv different from the rest of mankind,

•% tike to nothing but itself, even as is the

*-Aisjx. Their bodies are thick and fleshy, and  
''^z£+ Ix*b«, without tone, and their bellies the

tfBMMC {t\ ftoftest (?), inoistest (?) (roUiai

wrreu) of ail bellies aa to their lower parts

-<wv «»iAee*r ml arartv); for it is not possible  
a* telly to be dried in such a country, both

tv- m«1 and climate, but on account of the fat

. • icftootlinesa of their flesh, they are all like

<her, the men like the men, the women like

mc*.* (Hippncr. de Aere, &c. pp. 291, 292.)

Coming as this notice does from a physician, it has

commanded considerable attention; it has, however,

no pretensions to be called a description, though this

has often been done. In the hands of later writers its

leading features become exaggerated, until at length

the description of a Scythian becomes an absolute

caricature. We may see this by reference to Am-

mianus Marcellinus and Jornandes, in their accounts

of the Huns. The real fact inferred from the text

of Hippocrates is, that the Scythians had a peculiar

physiognomy, a physiognomy which the modern

ethnologist finds in the population of Northern and

Central Asia, as opposed to those of Persia, Cauca­

sus, Western and Southern Europe.

Their general habit* were essentially nomadic,

pastoral, and migratory; the commonest epithets or

descriptive appellations being 'Aua^i&ui, ♦ff/^oucoi,

'ImroTo'foTai, and the like.

Concerning their Relicjiov, we have something

more than a mere cursory notice (iv. 59). (i.) Tabiti

(Tafffr.): This was the Scythian name for the

nearest equivalent to the Greek I/istia (Vesta), the

divinity whom they most especially worshipped,

(ii.) Papaeus; "Most properly, in my mind, is Zeus

thus called." So writes Herodotus, thinking of the

ideas engendered by such exclamations as Daa-ar.

(iii.) Apia: This is the name for earth: as (iv.) Oeto-

syrus (OiToVi/pos) is for Apollo, and (v.) Ailimpasa

for Aphrodite, and (vi.) Thamimasada fur Poseidon,

the God of the Royal Scythians most especially. To

Oestosyrua we have the following remarkable in­

scription (Gud. Inscrip. Antiq. p. 56. 2; see Zeuss,

s. r. Shjthen): 6EA. 2EAOIT02KTPA (? 5EA-

tjkii) KAI APO LIANA. OIT02KTPn. MI0PA.

M. OTAI1I02. nAOKAMOX NEflKOPOS. ANE0

(»*■*)* Here the connection is with the Persian

god Mtthras.

The Scoloti sacrificed to all their gods, but to

Mars the most especially; for, besides the deities

which have been mentioned under their several

Scythian names, Mars and Heracles were objects of

particular adoration. The Scythian Venus, too,

was the 'Atppo&TTj ovpavln. To Ares, however, they

sacrificed most especially and most generally; for

'there was a place of worship to him in every v6pLot

I (mark the use of this word, which is applied to the

divisions of the Persian empire as well), where

horses, sheep, and captives were sacrificed, and where

the emblem of the god was an iron sword,—even as

it was with the Alani of Ammianus and the Huns

of Priscus.

Human beings were sacrificed, but no swine.

Neither were swine eaten, nor were they tolerated

in the country. This is noticed, because in many of

the nations of Northern Asia, e. g. the Wotiaks and

others, the hog, even now, is held in abomination,

and that by Pagan tribes untinctured with Muho-

metanism.

Notwithstanding the praises of the earlier poets,

the wars of the "just and illustrious" Scythians

were of a piece with the worship of their war-god.

They scalped their enemies, and they used their

skulls as drinking cups (cc. 64—65). Once a

year the monarch of each nome filled a vast vat with

wine and apportioned it to the warriors who had

killed most enemies during the year. Those whose

hands were unstained got none, and were disgraced;

those who had killed many took a double allowance

(c. 66).

Their soothsayers, amongst other superstitions,

practised rhabdomancy, amongst whom the Enarees

