418 NEMORENSIS LACUS. NEONTEICHOS.

NEMORENSIS LACUS. [Aricia.]

NEMOSSUS. [AUGUSTOHEMKXUM.J

NEMUS DIANAE. [Aricia.]

NKNTIDAVA. [Dacia, Vol. I. p. 774, b.]

NEOCAKSAREIA (Nfofcoiffaf»*ia: Kth. Neowat-

aafttvi). 1. A town in Pontus Poletnoniacus, which,

on account of its late origin, is not mentioned by

any writer before the time of Pliny, was situated on

the eastern bank of the river Lycus, 63 miles to the

east of Ama-ia. (Plin. vi. 3; Tab. Pcuting.) It

was tin- capital of the district, and celebrated fur its

size and beauty, and is of historical importance on

account of the ecclesiastical council held there in

A. i». 314. We possess no information about the

date of its foundation; but the earliest coins we have

of it bear the image of the emj*ror Tiberius; whence

it is probable that Xeocaesareia was founded, or at

least received that name, in the reign of Tiberius,

when Strabo. who does not notice it, had already

composed Ins work. It must have rapidly risen in

extent and prosperity, a* in the time of Grcgorius

Thaumaturgua, who was a native of the place, it was

the most considerable town in Pontus. (Greg.

Neoeaes. VU. p. 577; Ainin. Marc, xxvii. 12;

Hier.K.1. p. 702; Basil, Epi*t. 210; Acta Kutych.

c 7; comp. Steph. B. s. V.; Solin. 45; PtoL v. 6.

§ 10.) According to Paulas Diaconns (Hist Hue

ii. 18), the town was once destroyed by an earth­

quake; and from Strphauns l\yz. it seems that at

one time it was called AdrianopoJis. The town still

exists under a corrupt form of its ancient name,

NicMW or Xu-*ara, at a distance of two days' journey

north ot Tukat. As to the sujijxxscd identity of

Caliira and Xrocaesareia, see Cafuka.

2. A town of Ilithynia, of uncertain site. (Steph.

];>.'■. Hierocl. p. 093; Concil. Const, vol. iii. p.

668.) [L. S.]

NKOCLAUDIOPOMS. [ANDitArA.]

NKOCOMUM. [Comom.]

NEON (Nfwv. Etk. Nftci-ios), an ancient town

of Phocis, said to have been built after the Trojan

war (Strab. ix. p. 439), was situated at the foot of

Mr. Tithorea. one of the peaks of Mt. Parnassus.

Herodotus rela'es that, when the Persian army in­

vaded I'hocis, many of the Phocians took refuse in

Titlmn-a near Xemi (viii. '.VI). and that th>' latter

city was destroyed by the Persians (viii. 33). It

was, however, afterwards rebuilt ; but was again de­

stroyed, with the other Phucian towns, at the end

of the Sacred War. (Paus. x. 3. § 2.) In its

neighbourhood, Philomelus, the Phoeian general, was

defeated, and perished in the flight by throwing

himself down from a tofty rock. (Pans. x. 2. § 4.)

Neon now disappear! from history, and in its place

we read of a town TlTHOBKA, which U described by

Pausanias (x. 32. § 8, seq.). This writer regards

Tithorea as situated on the same site as Neon ; and

relates that Tithorea was the name anciently applied

to the irhok district, and that when the inhabitants

of the neighbouring villages were collected in the

city, the name of Tithorea was substituted for that

of Noon. This, however, is not in accordance with

the statement of Plutarch, according to whom Ti­

thorea, in the time of the Mithridatic war, was a

fortress surrounded by precipitous rocks, where the

Phocians took refuge from Xerxes. He further

states that it was not inch a city as the one ex­

isting in bis day. (Plot StUL 15.) If the view of

Plutarch is correct, that the fortress, the site of

which was afterwards occupied by tho city Ti­

thorea, was the place where the Phocians took rc-

fuge from Xerxes, we may conclude tlul Til\nra

and Neon were two different places.

The city, which existed in the time of Hntnei

and Pausanias, was a place of some ■oalM

thoucb it had begun to decline for a gcneratii* t-r-

fore the time of Pausanias. The latter writer no­

tions, however, a theatre, the cr.ch«ure of iniwial

agora, a temple of Athena, and the tomb of Aotirji

and Phocus. A river 8owed by Tilhora, tM

Cacbales (KaxtfATjj), to which the inhabitant* ba

to descend in order to obtain water. Id uSp terriWJ

of Tithorea, but at the distance of 70 btadia frwn tk

city, was a temple of Asclcpius, and al*o, it lh

distance of 4(1 stadia, a shrine of Isis. (Paut. J.8

8—13.) The name is written Ttfl. p«a in Ikf»

dotus and Pausanias, TtBopala in StepUna* B,

Ti0o>a in Plutarch, but Ti66ppa in iracm**

The Ethnic name in Pausanias is Tt6op**is, inS»

phanus TtOopatfvs, but in iiiscriptions TtQoptn.

The mins of Tithorea are situated at l>!ita,i

village at the NE. foot of Mt. Paniassus. The

is fixed by an inscription found at Ytlitzn. iu *W

the name of Tithorea occurs. Two-thinis ol

modern village stand within the ruined walUrfi

ancient city. A considerable portion of the

and many of the towers. Mill remain. TW

was carefully fortified towards the W. and Ntt.

was sufliciently protected towards the NE.

by the j>recipitous banks of the Cachales.

wards the S. by the steep sides of Mt Pi

The walls are almost 9 leet broad. The Cackw

which now bears the name of Kakarruma. «l

evil forre/ir, flows in a ravine below the villaf*,*

tlius illustrates the statement of Pausanias, tl

inhabitants drscetided to it in order to obtaia

Behind \ elitza, ascending the Cachalem

cavern on the steep side of the rock, which,

the last war of independence, received a preatl

of fugitives. It is very spacious, is soppiid*

excellent water, and is quite imprftgnabk. 1*1

probably the place where the inhabitant! rf

and the surrounding places took refuge in"'

sian invasion, as the IMphians did in the Cofl^

cave [see Vol. I. p. 768], more especially

height immediately above Veiitza is not

such a purpose, A difficult mole path h

present through the ravine of the Cachaha

the heights of Parnassus to Delphi- In '<■><

Pausanias there were two roods from Titli

the mountain to Delphi, one direct, the

but practicable for carriages. Pansania*J

stadia as the length of the shorter road

number cannot be correct, as Leake

the direct distance is hardly less than IS

phioal miles.

Moat modern writers have followed Pi

identifying Tithorea and Neon ; but LTrichn,

reasons which have been already stated. ■

them to hare been different cities, and plara

at the Hellenic ruins on the Oephi.vsus, called J

Fira, distant 1) hour. or3.J English mflfla*!

lit-n. (Leake, Xurthern Crrtfr, vol- ii. p 77f1

Ulrichs, in Rheinischfs J/Wum, 184.**, p. 344.1

KEONTE1CUOS (Nwr ruXos). aa

town not far from the coast of Mtsu,

between the Hermns and the town of

which its distance was only 30 stadia. It

have been founded by the Aeoliana,a& a

on their first arrival in Asia. According la |

(xiii. p. 621), the place was more

Cyme; but according to a statement

