ITALIA 85 ITALIA.

wards ailed Sarnniam, until they were expelled, or

rather subdued, by the Sabine colonists, who as­

sumed the name of Samnites. (Id. v. p. 250.)

[Samsium.] Whether they were more widely ex­

tended we have no positive evidence; but there seems

a strong presumption that they had already spread

themselves through the neighbouring districts of

Italy. Thus the Hirpini, who are represented as a

Samnite or Sabellian colony, in all probability found

an Oscan population established in that country, as

did the Samnites proper in the more northern pro­

vince. There are also strong arguments for re­

garding the Volacians as of Oscan race, as well as

their neighbours and inseparable allies the Aequians.

(Niebuhr, vol. i. pp. 7<>—73; Donaldson, Varro-

mujuu. pp. 4, 5.) It was probably also an Oscan

tribe that was settled in the highlands of the Apen­

nines about BsaUi, and which from thence descended

into the plains of Latium, and constituted one im­

portant element of the Latin nation. [Latium.]

It is certain that, if that people was, as already

mentioned, in part of Felasgic origin, it contained

also a very strong admixture of a non-Pdasgic

race: and the analogy of language leads us to derive

this Utter element from the Oscan. (Donaldson, l.c.)

Indeed the extant monuments of the Oscan lan­

guage are sufficient to prove that it bore a very close

relation to the oldest form of the Latin; and Niebuhr

justly remarks, that, had a single book in the Oscan

language been preserved, we should have had little

difficulty in deciphering it. (Niebuhr, vol. i. p. 68.)

It is difficult to determine the precise relation

which this primitive Oscan race bore to the Sabines

or Sabellians. The latter are represented as con­

querors, making themselves masters of the countries

previously occupied by the Oscans; but, both in

Sumnium and Campania, we know that the language

spoken in historical times, and even long after the

Kuman conquest, was still called Oscan; and we

even find the Samnites carrying the same language

with them, as they gradually extended their con­

quests, into the furthest recesses of Bruttium. (Fest.

i. r. Bilingua Brutata, p. 35.) There seems little

di-ubt that the Samnite conquerors were a com­

paratively small body of warriors, who readily adopted

the language of the people whom they subdued, like

the Normans in France, and the Lombards in

Northern Italy. (Niebuhr, vol. i. p. 67.) But, at

the same time, there are strong reasons for sup-

puung that the language of the Sabines themselves,

and therefore that of the conquering Sabellian race,

was not radically distinct from that of the Oscans,

but that they were in fact cognate dialects, and that

the two nations were members of the same family

or race. The questions concerning the Oscan lan­

guage, so far as it is known to us from existing monu­

ments, are more fully adverted to under the article

Uacx*; but it must be borne in mind that all such

nvxiumenut are of a comparatively late period, and

represent only the Sabello-Oscan, or the language

spoken by the combined people, long after the two

races had been blended into one; and that we are

almost wholly without the means of distinguishing

what portion was derived from the one source or the

other.

* See also Mommsen, Oshische Studien, 8vo.  
Berlin. 1845, and Sachtragt, Berl. 1846, and his

Cater Italuchex Ifiolektt, Irfipzig, 1850, pp. 99—

316; Kleme, Philologuclte Abhandltmgen, 8vo.

Berlin, 1839.

3. The Sabellians.— This name, which is

sometimes used by ancient writers as synonymous

with that of the Sabines, sometimes to designate tlio

Samnites in particular (l'lin. iii. 12. s. 17; Virgil,

Georg. ii. 167; Hor. Sat. i. 9. 29, ii. 1. 36; Hein-

dorf. ad he.), is commonly adopted by modern his­

torians as a general appellation, including the Sabines

and all those races or tribes which, according to the

distinct tradition of antiquity, derived their origin

from them. These traditions are of a very different

character from most of those transmitted to us, and

have apparently every claim to be received as histo­

rical. And though we have no means of fixing the

date of the migrations to which they refer, it seems

certain that these cannot be carried back to a very

remote age; but that tbe Sabellian races had not

very long been established in the extensive regions

of Central Italy, where we find them in the historical

period. Their extension still further to the S. be­

longs distinctly to the historical age, and did not

take place till long after the establishment of the

Greek colonies in Southern Italy.

The Sabines, properly so called, had their original

abodes, according to Cato (op. Dionys. ii. 49), in tile

lofty ranges of the central Apennines and the upland

valleys about Amitemum. It was from thence that,

descending towards the western sea, they first began

to press upon the Aborigines, an Oscan race, whom

they expelled from the valleys about lieate, and thus

gradually extended themselves into the country

which they inhabited under the Romans, and which

still preserves its ancient name of La Sabina. But,

while the nation itself had thus shifted its quarters

nearer to the Tyrrhenian Sea, it had sent out at

different periods colonies or bodies of emigrants,

which had established themselves to the £. and S.

of their original abodes. Of these, the most powerful

and celebrated were the Samnites (Sauyrrai), a people

who are universally represented by ancient historians

as descended from the Sabines (Strub. v. p. 250;

Fest. v. Samnites; Varr. L. L. vii. § 29); and this

tradition, in itself sufficiently trustworthy, derives

the strongest confirmation from the fact already no­

ticed, that the Romans applied the name of Sabclli

(obviously only another form of Sabini) to both na­

tions indiscriminately. It is even probable that the

Samnites called themselves Sabini, or Savini, for the

Oscan name "Safinim" is found on coins struck

during the Social War, which in all probability be­

long to the Samnites, and certainly not to the Sa­

bines proper. Equally distinct and uniform are the

testimonies to the Sabine origin of the Piceni or

Picentes (Plin. iii. 13. a. 18; Strab. v. p. 240), who

are found in historical times in possession of the

fertile district of Picenum, extending from the cen­

tral chain of the Apennines to the Adriatic. The

Peligni also, as we learn from the evidence of their

native poet (Ovid, Fatt. iii. 95), claimed to be of

Sabine descent; and tbe same may fairly be as­

sumed with regard to the Vestini, a tribe whom we

find in historical times occupying the very valleys

which are represented as the original abodes of the

Sabines. We know nothing historically of the origin

of this people, any more than of their neighbours the

Marrucini; but we find them both associated so

frequently with the Peligni and the Marsi, that it is

probable the four constituted a common league or

confederation, and this in itself raises a presumption

that they were kindred races. Cato already re­

marked, and without doubt correctly, that the name

i of the .Marrucini was directly derived from that of

o 3

