398 KARBO. NARBASORUM FORUM.

interview with Hannibal, before the great battle of

the 19th of October, B.C. 202 (Liv. xxx. 29, the

reading Mo/>y.~p<v, l'olyb. xv. 5, is falsi). Narag-

gera was 30 or 32 M. P. to the W. of Sicca (12 M.

P. Peul. Tab.), and 20 M. P to the E of Thagiira.

(Anton. Itin.) Shaw (TraV. p. 130) found at

C'ags'r Jebir, some fragments of an aqueduct with

other footsteps of an ancient city, which, with the

fountains close adjoining, and the absence of good

water in the neighbourhood, induced him to believe

that this was the spot near which Scipio is said to

have encamped for the benefit of the water.

These ruins at Kast'r Jebir are marked in the

Cnrte de la province de Comtaniine, Paris, 1837.

Comp. Barth, Karte Von Kurd AfrUcanitchen

Getladeland. [E. B. J.]

NARBASO'RL'M FORUM. [Gaixafxia, Vol.1,

p. 934, a.]

NARBO MARTIUS (b Kifigwv: Elh. NopS.-

Wfinos, Neu»6WiTijy, NapSahs, Narbonensis: Xar-

Jonne), a town of the Provincia or Gallia Nar­

bonensis. Ptolemy (ii. 10. § 9) enumerates it

among the inland towns of the Vulcae Tectosages,

under the name of Narbon Colonia. He places it

fivo minutes south of the latitude of Massalia (Mar­

seille), and in 43° N. lat. It is, however, some

minutes north of 43° N. lat., and more than five

minutes south of Massalia. Hipparchus placed

Narbo and Massalia nearly in the same latitude.

(Strab. ii. p. 106.) Narbo was on the Atax

(Awle), and xii. M.P. from the sea. (Plin. iii. 4.)

Pliny seems to place Narbo in the territory of the

Volcae Tectosages, but his text is obscure. .Strabo

(iv. p. 186) distinctly places Narbo in the territory of

the Volcae Arecomici, but he adds that Nemausus

was their chief city. It seems, indeed, more pro­

bable that the Volcae Arecomici possessed the coast

about Narbo, for the chief city of the Tectosages

was Tolosa (Toulovee), in the basin of the Garonne.

Mela (ii. 5) calls Narbo a colonia of the Atacini

[Atax] and the Decumani. Atisonius (l>e

Claris Urbibut, Narbo) does not say, as some have

supposed, that Narbo was in the territory of the

Tcctosages, but that the Tecto.-agcs formed the

western part of Narbonensis, which is true. The

conclusion from Caesar (B. G. vii. G) is that Narbo

was not in the country of the Arecomici; but Caesar

did not trouble himself about such matters.

The position of Narbo at Sarbonne is easily de­

termined by the name, by the river Atax, and by

the measures along the road from Italy into Spain

The road from Arelate (Aries) through Nemausus

(Simes), Cessero (St. Tiberi), and B.ieterrac (Be-

ziers) to Narbo, is in the Antonine Itin. There is

also a route both in the Antonine Itin. and in the

Table from Bnrdigala (Bordeaux), through Tolosa

(Tonlotue)and Careasso (Corcrmonne) to Narbo.

The name Narbon (ij Naoffwr) was also one

name of the river Atax, for Polybius calls the river

Narbon. [Atax.] Tho form Narbona occurs in

inscriptions; and there is authority for this form

also in the MSS. of Caesar. (B. G. iii. 20, ed. Schn.,

and viii. 46.) According to Stephanus (*. r.) Mar-

cianus calls it Narbonesta; but this is clearly an

adjective form. Hecatacus, who is the authority

for the Ethnic name Nap&uoi, must have supposed

a name Narba or Narbe. The origin of the name

Martins is nut certain. The Roman colony of Naibo

was settled, n. c. 118, in the consulship of Q. Mar-

cius Rex and M. Porcius Cato; but the founder of

the colony was L. Lkinius Crasius. (Cic. Brut.

e. 43.) It has been conjectured that the rum*

Martius was given to the place because of the war­

like natives of the country against whom tbe

settlers had to protect themselves. Bat this i» not

probable. Others, again, have conjectured that its

name is derived from the Login Martin (Veil. Pater.

ii. 8, ed. Bnrmann): and the orthography Martia b>

defended by an inscription, Narbo Mart. (Grater,

cexxix.), and a coin of Golttiim. To this it if eb-

jecled.bya writer quoted by I'kert (Galtim. p. 410),

that tl« I.egio Martia was first formed by Augoirtta.

and that Cicero mentions the title Martins. (Ad

Fam. x. 33.) Forbiger copies Ukert. It appear*

that neither of them looked at Cicero's Mter, hi

which he speaks, not of Narbo Martiua or Mamas,

but of tbe Legio Martia, which existed bef .re ttw

time of Augustus. Cicero, however, does speak of

Nnrlsj Marcius, as it stands in Orelli's text. (Pro

Font. c. 1.) The Latin MSS. write the word U<h

Marcius and Martius; and the same variation occurs

in many other words nf the same termination. Tbe

most probable conclusion is, that the name Martial

or Marcius is the name of the consul Marcius(n-C.

118), who was fighting in this year against a Li-

gnrian people, named Stoeni. The name may har»

been written Narbo Marcius in Cicero's time, and

afterwards corrupted.

Narbo was an old town, placed in a good posftioo

on the read into Spain and into the basin of tbe

Garonne; a commercial place, we may certainly

assume, from the earliest time of ita existence.

There was a tradition that tin country at Xar-

bnnne was once occupied by Bebryces. (l>i»n Cass.

Frag. Volf*. vi. ed. Reim., and the reference to Zo-

naras.) The earliest writer who mentions Narbo is

Hccataeus, quoted by Stephanus; and. accordingly,

wc conclude that Narbo was well known to tbe

Greeks in the fifth century before tbe Christian

aera. The first Roman settlement in South Gallia

was Aquae Sextiae (Aix), on the east aide of tbt

Rhone- The second was Narbo Marcioa, by which

the Romans secured the road into Spain. Cicero

calls Narbo " a colony of Roman citizens, a watch

tower of the Roman people, and a bulwark opf»»*d

and placed in front of tbe nations in th<*e jtii-ta.-

During Caesar's ware in Callia this Roman cokey

was an important position. When P. Craaraa ia-

vaded Aquitania (n. c. 56) he got help from Toioaa,

Carfaso, and Narbo, at all which places there was

a mnster-roll of the fighting men. (B. G. Hi. SO.)

In the great rising of tbe Galli (b. c. 52), Narbo

was threatened by Locteritu, but Caesar eaune te

its relief. (B. G. vii. 7.) A second colony *■

settled at Narbo. or the old one rather strength­

ened by a Mippleuioiilmn under the dictator Caesar

(Suebin. Tiber, c. 4) by Tiberius Claudius Sirrv*,

the father of the emperor Tiberius. Snne *4 the

tenth legion, Caesar's favourite legion, wrre willed

here, as we may infer from the luime I>ecuinan,>rum

Colonia. (Plin. iii. 4.) The name Julia Patera,

which appears on inscriptions and in Martial, if

derived from the dictator Caesar. Tbe estatJitb-

ment of Narbo was the cause of tbe dr^hne of

Massilia, Strabo, who wrote in the time of Ae-

gustus and Tiberius, says (iv. p. 186): " that NarSa

is the port of the Volcae Arecomici, bat it nuffit

more properly be called the port of the rest i4*

Celtice; so much does it surpass oilier town* in

trade." (The latter part of Strain's text is eocniM

here.) The tin of the north-west part of the Spam*h

peninsula and of Britain passed by way of Nuba, a*

