SILO AM. 1001 SIMOIS.

L Jtnxat plmces it xiL M. P. from Neapolis (=Sbe-

i« = .VuWii»), in the toparchy of Acrabattena.

(fwmoMt. t. r.) Its ruins were shown, and the

Tr-iias of the altar among them, in his day. ( Com-

•t in Sophon. i. 14, Epitaph. Paulae.) From

km notes the site is easily identified with the

ritra Silun, on the east of the Nablut road, about

a boars south of that town, situated over against

rilkge named El-Lebban (Lebonah), which lends

i cues also to a Khan on the road-aide. Silun is

wtiy a heap of ruins lying on a hill of moderate

nation at the socth-easteru extremity of a valley

macs which passes the great north road from

uttea to Galilee. M Among the ruins of modern

wj are traces of buildings of greater antiquity,

<: at some distance, towards the east, is a well of

*i water, and in the valleys many tombs ex-  
TUei in the rock.'* (Robinson, Bibl. Re*, vol. iii.

i$6—89.) Among the tombs of Shiloh, if Re-

tfi conjecture is correct, is to be sought the very

bier authority on which the pagans rested their

union that their demigod Silenus was buried in

• country of the Hebrews; and the fact of the

irr of this deity being found on the coins of

mx Neapolis, certainly lends countenance to his

caiwa hypothesis that the fable originated in

r imaginary correspondence between this name

i the town of Ephraim. (Palaettma, p. 1017.)

it the error which he has copied from Benjamin of

■Ma. of placing the tomb of Samuel in Shiloh, is

nowjy attributable to a lapse of memory on the

ft of that writer, as no one has ever identified

flea with the ' modern A'eAi Samicil. The error

corrected by Asher. (Itinerary of R. Benjamin

Tmjrla, ed. A. Asher, vol. i. p. 78, vol. ii. p.

I) [O.W.]

SILOAM. [Jerusalem, p. 28, b.]

MLI'IA, a town in Hispania Baetica, N. of the

stk, and apparentlr in the Sierra Morena. (Liv.

»d, li.) Probably Linares. [T. H. D.]

M'LSILIS (A'or. Imp.), a fort situated on the

bank of tne Nile, between Umbos and Apolli-

Magna in Upper Aegypt. The original

■ of this place is nearly preserved in the modern

Ui The fort of Silailis stood at the foot of the

Wain now called Gebtl Seltilek, or " hill of the

in," and was one of the points which commanded

I passage of the river. For at this spot the

•koa and Libyan hills approach each other so

rn that the Kile, contracted to about half its

Baary width, seems to flow between two perpen-

ttlir walk of sandstone. Silsilis was one of the

"'■;-»] seats for the worship of the Nile itself, and

11. consecrated a temple to it, where it was

under the emblem of a crocodile and the

of Hapimooo. The stone quarries of

el» wen also celebrated for their durable and

BLful stone, of which the great temples and

iamenta of the Thebaid were for the most part

'- (Wilkinson, Mod. Egypt and Thebe*, vol. ii.

BS.) [W. B. D.]

S1LVANECTES. This name occurs in the

ttia of the Provinces of Gallia, where the chief

re is called Civitas Silvanectium. In the Notit.

pi the Sitvanectea are placed in Belgica Secunda,

■ ute name there denotes a town, according to the

w then established of giving to the capital towns

i turn of their people. It appears almost certain

• the fabanecti of Ptolemy (ii. 9. § 11) is the

» name aa Strvanectae or Silvanectes. Ptolemy

»■ the Sohasecti east of the Seine, and makes

Ratomagos their capital. But this Ratoinagus is

conjectured to be the same as the Augustoniagus of

the Itin. and of the Table, which is Setitis [Ai -

aUSTOMAOUs].

Pliny (iv. c. 17) mentions the Ulm&netes in

Gallia Belgica: "Suessioncs liberi,Ulmanetes liberi,

Tungri." It is possible that this too may be a cor­

rupted form of Silvanectes. fur the modern name

Senli* confirms the form Silvanectes, and I lie name

Ulmanetes is otherwise unknown. [G. L.]

SILVIA, a place in lllyria, on the road from

Sirmiutn to Salona. (/(in. Ant. p. 269.) It is

probably the same town as the Salvia of Ptolemy

[Salvia]. It is identified with Keupris by La-

pie. [T. a D.]

SILVIUM (SiAoftor: Eth. Silvinus: Ganujnone),

a town of Apulia in the interior of the country. It

is noticed by Slrabo (vi. p. 283) as the frontier town

of the Peucelii, and its name is noticed by Pliny

among the municipal towns of Apulia (Plin. iii. 11.

s. 1G). But at a much earlier period it is mentioned

by Diodoma as an Apuliun town, which was wrested

from the Samnites by the Romans in i c. 30G

(Diod. xx. 80). Our only clue to its position is

derived from the Itineraries, which place it 20 miles

from Venusia, on the branch of the Appall Way

which led direct to Tarentum. This distance coin­

cides with the site of a town (now destroyed) called

Garagnone, situated about midway between Spmaz~

tola and Pogyio Ortino, and nearly due E. of I'tnoia

(Pratilli, ViaAppia, iv. 6. p. 478; Komanelli, vol. ii

p. 188). [E.H. B.]

SILURA, an island of Britain, separated only by

a narrow strait from the coast of the Dumnuuii, who

inhabited the most S\V. point of Britannia. (Solin.

c. 22.) It is probably the same island which Sul-

picius Severus (ii. 51) calls Sylina, and seetns to

mean the Scilly Islands. [T. H. D.]

SI'LURES (SiAuoer, Ptol. ii. 3. § 24), a powerful

and warlike people in the W. part of Britannia Ro-

mana, whose territory was bounded on the S. by the

estuary of the Sabriua. The important towns of

Isca and Vents belonged to them. Tacitus (Ayr.

11) calls them descendants of the Iberi of Spoilt

and states that they had emigrated from Ireland

into Britain; but there seems to be no foundation

for this opinion. (Cf. Zenss, Die Deutschen, p.

202.) Although subjugated by the Romans, they

caused them continual alarm; aud they were the

only people of Britain who, at a later period, main­

tained their independence against the Saxons.

(Beds, Hist Ecc. i. 12, seq.; cf. Tac. Ann. xii. 2,

31; Plin. iv. 16. s. 30.) [T. II. I).]

SIMK'NA (Sfiinva: Eth. 2oun«ut), a town on the

coast of Lycia, 60 stadia from Aperlae(Plin. v. 27;

Steph. B. s. v.; Stadiasm. Afar. Mag. §§ 239, 240,

where it is called Somena, Sd/xnra ; comp. Leake

Asia Minor, p. 188; Sprattand Forbes, Trarels in

Lycia, vol. i. p. 137, vol. ii. pp. 86, 274.) [L. S.]

SI'MKNI. [Icenl]

SIMEON. [Palaestina, p. 529, b.]

SIMITTU (2iM<o-eoo, Ptol. iv. 3. § 29), called by

Pliny (v. 4. § 4) Simittnense Oppidum, a Roman

colony in the interior of Xumidia, on the road from

Cirta to Carthago, 7 miles to the W. of Bulla Rrgia.

(Itin. Ant p. 43.) There were some mineral waters

5 miles E. of the town (/*.). It lay on the site of

the ]>resent A in Semit, on the Qucd-el- Bull, 2 leagues

to the W. of BkII. [T. H 1X1

SIMOIS (3bt<«W), a small river of Tmss, having

its source in Mount Ida, or more accurately in MmH

