KTSSAD1UH.

SABA. 8til

aWr, not Sndrich; which latter town seems to

m tpronc op under the Saxons, after Kutupiac

kl (*juo to fall into decay, and was indeed pro-

kkir hailt with materials taken from it. Accord-

fctoCamdrn (p. 244) the etymology of the name

f Kutupiat U analogous to that of Sandwich, being

Urnj from the British Rhydlufeth, signifying

fetodr bottoms"; a derivation which seems much

■e probable than that from the Ruteui, a people

nV Tupd tbe district in France now called La

pry«. The territory around the town was

ri Rutupinus Ager (Auson. Parent, xviii. 8)

tbe coast Rutupinus Littua (Luc. /. c). Tbe

■a* raa celebrated for ita oysters, as the coast

m Margate and Re culver is to the present day.

■jr l<ed» c4* oyster-idielU have been found in the

IfbUtarbtul, at a depth of from 4 to 6 feet under

*': ill" I-Tt i> undoubtedly that mentioned  
t Taritua (Agrie. 38), under the erroneous name

Tmtulrnsis Portus, as occupied by the fleet of

rv\U. It wu a wife harbour, and the usual

d mart convenient one fox the passage between

vr» and England. (Amm. Man*, xx. 1, xxvii.

\ 1) The principal Roman remains at Rich*

esses an those of a cast rum and of an amphi-

min. The walls of the former present an exten-

* rain, and on the N. side are in some places  
w SO U 30 feet in height. Fragments of sculp-

bJ marbles found within their circuit show that

> f rtificatwn must have contained some handsome

usagt. The foundation walls of the amphi-

tatrt were excavated in 1849, and are the first

taaas of a walled building of that description

**roJ in England. There is a good description  
IbdAonmgk, as it existed in the time of Henry

lfc, in LeUnd'a Itinerary (vol. vii. p. 128, ed.

wt*X Leland mentions that many Roman coins

» fuund there, which still continues to be the

'- 'itber Roman antiquities of various descrip-

* tare been discovered, as pottery, fibulae, oma­  
sa, knives, tools. Sec. Rutupiae was under the

stViion of tbe Comes litoris Saxon ici, and was

atatauo of tbe Lejrio IMa Augusta. (XotUia,

* ■ A complete account of its remains will bo  
Mia Beach Smith's Antu/uities of Richborough

**.l«a [T.ED.]  
TSUUHLH ('PihtstcUiop Ipos, Ptol. iv. 6. § 8),

fc.si-.tam of Interior Libya, from which flows

>*l«r (Gambia), making near it the lake

-*. tbe middle of the mountain (or lake?)  
E- ton*., 11° X. lat." (Ptol. /. c.) This moun-

tenmoated in the headland also called Ryssa-

'Pwroiior &Kfjor), the position of which is

I by Ptolemy (iT. 6. § 6) at 8° 30' E. long.,

It* W X. laU We assume, with Rcnnell and

■'. that Arsinariain is C. Verde, a conjecture

fceaa be made with more confidence because it

1*1 Chat Ptolemy's difference of longitude be-

r. ArvfLtnum and Carthage is very nearly cor-

—awarding to that assumption this promontory

bt looked for to tbe N. of the mouth of the

sw. Tbe mountain and lake must be assigned

at earrated region in which the Senegal and the

Ma take their rise, forming an appendage to the

al highlands of Africa from which it projects

.»a.-.Ja like a vast promontory, into the Great

ra. [E. B. J.]

S.

SABA, SABAEI (2ae>> or Xa€aii Kth. SafrVor,

fern. Saffaia). were respectively the principal city

and nation in Yemen* or Arabia Felix. [Akaiua.J

Ancient geographers differ considerably as to the

extent of territory occupied by the Sabaeans, Era­

tosthenes assigning to it a much larger area than

Ptolemy. The difference may perhaps be reconciled

by examining their respective accounts.

Our knowledge of the Sabaeans is derived from

three sources: the Hebrew Scriptures, the Greek

historians and geographers, and the Roman poets

and encyclopedists, Pliny, Solinus, \. . The Arabian

geographers, also, throw some light upon this ancient

and far-extending race.

1. In the Hebrew genealogies (Genesis, x. C,

xxv. 3) the Sabaeans are described as the de-

HcendantS of Cush, the son of Ham. This de­

scent was probably not so much from a single

stem, us from several branches of Hamite origin;

and as the tribes of the Sabaeims were numerous,

some of them may have proceeded immediately from

! Cash, and others from later progenitors nf the same

stock. Thus one tribe descended frum Seba, the sou

of Cush, another from Jokahan, Abraham's sou by

Keturah; a third from Sheba, the son of Raamah—

the 'Pryp&of tlie I.XX. (Compare Psalm Ixxii.

10; Isaiah, x\v. 14; h'zekiel, xxvii. 22, 23, xxxviii.

13.) The most material point in this pedigree is

the fact of the pure Semitic blood of the .Sabaeans.

The Hebrew prophets agree in celebrating the

stature and noble bearing, the enterprise and wealth

of this nation, therein concurring with the expres­

sion of Agatharchides, who describes the Sabaeans

as having ra awnaiat a^io\oywr*ffa. Their occu­

pations appear to have been various, as would be the

case with a nation so widely extended (" Sabaei . . .

ad utraque maris porrecti/ Plin. vi. 28. s. 32):

for there is no doubt that in the south they were

actively engaged in commerce, while in the north, on

the borders of Idumca, they retained the predatory

habits of nomades. (Job, ii. 15.) The *' Queen

of the South," i-«• of Yemen or Sabaea. who was

attracted to Palestine by the lame of Solomon, was

probably an Arabian sovereign. It may be observed

that Ytmen and Saba liave nearly the same import,

each signifying the right hand , for a person turning

his face to the rising sun has the south on his right,

and thus Saba or Yemen, which was long regarded as

the southern limit of the habitable zone, is the left-

hand, or southern land. (Comp. Herod, hi. 107 —

113; Footer's Geogr. of Arabia, vol i. pp.24—

38.) A river Sab is, in Caruuvuia (Mela, ii). 8. § 4),

and a chain of mountains Sab>>, at the entrance of

the Persian Gulf (Arrian, Periplus. M. F.rythr., opn

peyiGTa \ty6uffa Xd€a; comp. Ptol. vi. 7. § 23),

apparently indicate an extension of the Sabaeans be­

yond Arabia Proper. That they reached to the

eastern shore of the Red Sea is rendered probable by

the circumstance that a city named Sabu or Sabe

stood there, about 36 miles S. of Podnu, in lat.

14° N. (Ptol. vi. 7. § 38, v. 22. § 14.)

2. The first Greek writer who mentions the

Sabaeans by name is Eratosthenes. His account,

however, represents a more recent condition of this

nation than is described by Artemidorus, or by Aga­

tharchides, who is Strabo's principal authority iu

his narrative of the Sabaeans. On the other hand,

Diudorus Siculua professes to hare compiled his

