MEROE. 331 MERTJS.

loftiest of these pyramids is about 160 feet in

height. Some of these have evidently been royal

tombs. None of the buildings of Men*, indeed,

on claim a remote antiquity. The sculptures as

well as the pyramids bear the impress of the decline

of Aegyptian art, and even traces of Greek archi­

tecture: and this circumstance is one of many in­

dications that Meroe derived its civilisation from

Aegypt, and did not, as has been supposed, transmit

an earlier civilisation to the Nile valley. And yet

it is not probable that Meroe received either its arts

er its peculiar forms of civil polity from Aegypt,

either entirely, or at any very remote epoch of time.

Their points of resemblance, as well as of difference,

forbid the supposition of direct transmission: for,

on the one hand, the architecture and sculptures of

Meroe betjay the inferiority of a later age, and its

civil government is not modelled upon that of the

Pharaohs. One remarkable feature in the latter is

that the sceptre was so often held by female sove­

reigns; whereas in Aegypt we find a queen reg­

nant only once mentioned — Nitocris, in the 3rd

dynasty. Again, the polity of Meroe appears to

save been in great measure sacerdotal long after

Aegypt had ceased to be governed by a pure theo­

cracy. Yet, that the civilisation of Meroe was in­

digenous, the general barbarism of the native tribes

of this portion of Libya in all ages renders highly

improbable. From whatever quarter the ruling

cute of this ancient kingdom may have come, it

bean all the tokens, both in what we know of its

tart, and in what is visible of its arts, of the pre­

tence of a conquering race presiding over a subject

people.

The most probable theory appears to be the fol-

kming, since it will account for the inferiority of the

•its and for the resemblance of the polity of Meroe

to that of Aegypt:—

Strabo, quoting Eratosthenes (xvii. p. 786), says

that the Sembritae were subject to Meroe; and

acain he relates, from Artemidorus, that the Sem­

britae ruled Meroe. The name of Sembritae, he

adds, signifies immigrants, and they are governed by

a qneea. Pliny (vi. 30. s. 31) mentions four

islands of the Sembritae, each containing one or

awre towns, and which, from that circumstance, are

evidently not mere river-islands, but tracts between

the streams which intersect that part of Libya — the

nxdem kingdom of Setmnar. Herodotus, in whom

■ UK earliest allusion to these Sembritae (ii. 30),

catti them Automoli, that is voluntary exiles or

immigrants, and adds that they dwelt as far above

Meroe, as the latter is from Syene, L e., a two

Booths' voyage np the river. Now, we know that,

ia the reign of Psammetichus (b. c. 658—614), the

rmhtiry caste withdrew from Aegypt in anger,

became their privileges had been invaded by that

monarch; srri tradition uniformly assigns Aethiopia,

• ratne came, as their place of refuge. The num­

ber of these exiles was very considerable, enough —

eves rf we reduce the numbers of Herodotus (ii. 31),

itOXXJO, to a tenth — to enable warriors, well armed

•od disciplined, to bring under subjection the scat-

tewi and barbarous tribes of Sennaar. The islands

of the Sembritae, surrounded by rivers, were easy of

**enee: the soil and productions of Meroe proper  
*oold attract exiles acccustomed to the rich Nile  
"Bey; while, at the distance of two month's journey,

•h"? were secure against invasion from Aegypt.

Hiring revolted from a king rendered powerful by

ka army, they would naturally establish a form of

government in which the royal authority was limited;

and, recurring to the era when the monarch was

elected by or from the sacerdotal caste, they ap­

parently reorganised a theocracy, in which the royal

power was so restricted as to admit of its being held

by male or female sovereigns indifferently,—for there

were kings as well as queens of Meroe.

Again, the condition of the arts in this southern

kingdom points to a similar conclusion. The pyra­

mids scattered over the plains of Meroe, though

copied from the monuments of the Nile valley, and

borrowing names from early Egyptian dynasties, are

all of a comparatively recent date; long, indeed, pos­

terior to the age when the arts of Aegypt were

likely either to be derived from the south, or to be

conveyed up the river by conquest or commercial

intercourse. The structures of Meroe, indeed, so far

as they have been explored hitherto, indicate less a

regular than an interrupted intercourse between the

kingdoms above and below Syene, And when it

is remembered that these monuments bear also many

vestiges even of later Greek and Roman times, we

may infer that the original Sembritae were, during

many generations, recruited by exiles from Aegypt,

to whom the government of their Macedonian or

Roman conquerors may have been irksome or oppres­

sive. Finally, the native tribes of Sennaar live

principally on the produce of the chase; whereas the

population of Meroe was agricultural. New emi­

grants from Aegypt wonld naturally revert to tillage,

and avail themselves of the natural productiveness of

its alluvial plains. The whole subject, indeed, is in­

volved in much obscurity, since the ancient Meroe is

in many parts inaccessible; partly from its immen>e

tracts of jungle, tenanted by wild beasts, and partly

from the fevers which prevail in a climate where a

brief season of tropical rain is succeeded by many

mouths of drought. From the little that has been

discovered, however, we seem warranted in at least

surmising that Meroe was indirectly a colony of

Aegypt, and repeated in a rude form its peculiar

civilisation. (See Heeren, African Nations, vol. i.

Aferoe; Coolev's Ptolemy and the Mile; Cailliaud,

title de Mem, &c) [W. B. D."

MEROM. [Palaestina.]

MEItOZ (Mfpcuf), a town of Palestine, mentioned

only in Judges (v. 23), apparently situated in the

vicinity of the battle-field, and in the tribe of Asber.

The tradition of its site was lost as early as the

time of Procopius of Gaza, who had attempted in

vain to recover it. (Reland, Palaestina, 9. v. p.

896.) [G. W.]

MKRVA. [Gallaecia, p. 934, a.]

MERULA (Merula), a river of Liguria, men­

tioned only by Pliny (iii. 5. s. 7), who places it

between Albium Intemelium (Vmtimiglia) and

Albium Ingaunum (Albenga). The name is still

retained (according to the best maps) by a stream

which flows into the Mediterranean near the Capo

delle Mele, about 10 miles W. of Albenga, but more

commonly known as the Fiume dAndvra, from the

village of that name near its mouth. [E. H. II]

MEBUS (Mijpos), a town of Plirygia, which is

mentioned only in the ecclesiastical writers as situ­

ated in Phrygia Salutaris, on the south-east of

Cotyaeum. (Hierocl. p. 677; Socrat /list Kecks.

iii. 15; Sozomen,v. 11: Constant. Porphyr. de Them.

i. 4.) Some believe that the ruins near Dovasldn

(commonly called Doganlu), of which Fellows heard

(Discov. in lycia, p. 134, &c), belong to Merus.

(Cotnp. Leake, Asia Minor, p. 24,&c.) [L. S.]

