298 MAURETANIA. MAURETANIA

(Mtlilah.) W. of Cop Tree Forcas, which is a

terminal ion of an ofishovit of the secondary chain of

the Atlas, was the district of the Mktagonitae,

extending to Abvla (JebeUel-Mina). From here

to Tisois {Tangier) the coast is broken by alternate

cliffs and coves; and, still standing to the W., a bold

shore presents itself as far as the fine headland of

Ami'KI.i sia (Cape S/mrtel; Ras-el-Shukbir of the

natives). From Cape Spartt'l to the SSW. as far

as Zilis (Arzila), the coast-line is a fiat, sandy,

and shingly beach, after which it becomes more bold

as it reaches Lixi'S (Al-Hardtch or Laraiche).

(Smyth, The Mediterranean, pp. 94—99.) A

description of the SYY. coast is (riven in the article

I.ihya. (Comp. C. Miiller, Tab. ad Geog. Graec.

Minores, ed. Didot, Paris, 1855; West Coast of

Africa surveyed, by Ark-tt, Vidal, and Boteler. 1832;

Cute occideniale de CAfrique an Depot de h Ma­

rine, Paris, 1852; Carle dc I'Umpire de Maroc,

jar K. Kenou, 1844; Barlh, Karte vom Nord

Afruianisehen Gestadeland, Berlin, 1849.)

III. History and Political Geography.

The Romans first became acquainted with this

country when the war with Hannibal was transferred

to Africa; Mauretania was the unknown land to the

W. of the Mulucha. In the Jugurthine War, Boc­

chus, who is called king of Mauretania, played the

traitor's part so skilfully that he was enabled to hand

over his kingdom to his two sons Bogudes and Boc-

choris, who were associated upon the throne. These

princes, from their hostility to the Pompeian party,

were confirmed as joint kings of Mauritania by

J. Caesar in B. c. 49. During the civil war between

M. Antonius and Octavius, Bocchus sided with the

latter, while Bogudes was allied with Antonius.

When Bogudes crossed into Spain, Bocchus seized

upon his brother's dominions; a usurpation which

was ratified by Octavius. In B. c 25, Octavius gave

to Juba II., who was married to the daughter of

Cleopatra and Antonius, the two provinces of Mau­

retania (afterwards called Tingitana and Cacsarien-

sis) which had formed the kingdom of Bogudes and

Bocchus, in exchango for Xumidia, now made a

ltoman province. Juba was succeeded by his son

Ptolemy, whom Selene, Cleopatra's daughter, bore

to him. (Strab. xvii. pp. 828, 831, 840.) Ti­

berius loaded Ptolemy with favours on avcount of

the assistance he gave the Romans in the war with

Tacfarinas (Tac. Ann. iv. 23—26); hnt in A. r>.

41 he was put to death by Caligula. (Dion Cass,

lix. 25; Suet. Col. 26; Seneca, de Tranq. 11.)

Kor coins of these native princes, see Eckhel, vol. iv.

pp. 154—101.

In a. d. 42, Claudius divided the kingdom into two

provinces, separated from each other by the river Mu­

lucha, the ancient frontier between the territories of

llocchus and Jugurtha; that to the W. was called

Mauretania Tijioitana, and that to the E. Mau-

KETAXIA CaESAIUKX.318. (Dion Cass, lx. 9; Plin.

v. I.) Both were imperial provinces (Tac. Uisl. i. 11,

ii. 58; Spart, Uadr. 6, " Manretaniae praefectura"),

and were strengthened by numerous Roman ** co­

lonise." M. Tingitana contained in the time of

Pliny (t c) five, three of which, Zius, Babba,

ami Uanasa, as they were founded by Augustus

when Mauretania was independent of Rome, were

reckoned as belonging to Baetica. (Plin. L c; Pomp.

Mela, iii. 10. § 5.) Ti.noi and Ltxts were colo­

nies of Claudius (Plin. /. e.); to which were added

in later times RrgAUlU and Vol.t iiilih (/fin. Ant.)

M. Caesariensis contained eight colonies fnndf 1 !•▼

Augustus, Cautenxa, Glnigi, Ioilgiu. Iii *-

comae, KisAzis, Saldb, Slccabah, TlBUSir-

Tis; two by Claudius, Cakhakkia. funnerly lit,

the capital of Juba, who gave it this name in honour

of his |iatron Augustus, and OpriDUM Norm;

one by Nerva, SiTiris; and in later timet, Atu-

xaria, Biua, Sioa, AyUAE Caudak, Q'txjl,

HlSlCURKIt'M, Al'ZIA, GlLVA, IcnSII'M, and 1 I-

pasa, in all 21 well-known colonies, U*i«!es trrrrA

"inunicipia" and "oppida Latina." The Xuiua

enumerates no less than 170 episcopal towns is the

two provinces. (Comp. Morcelli, Africa Christiana,

vol. i. pp. 40—43.) About A. D. 400, Mauretaua

Tingitana was under a " Praeses," in the dR-o-^e ««"

Spain; while Mauretania Caesariensis, which still re­

mained in the hands of the diocese of Africa, was

divided into Mai kktania I. or Smrrasu, and

Malhetakia II. or Cak&auiexsu. The emperor

Otho had assigned the cities of Mauretania to Bartica

(Tac. Hist. i. 78); but this probably applied only to

single places, since we find the two Maureianiaa re­

mained unclianged down to the time of CcnstantiiK.

Mnrqnardt, in Becker's Uandbuch der Jivm. AU.

pp. 230—232; Morcelli, Africama Christiana, Taj. u

p. 25.)

In A. D. 429. the Vandal king Genseric, at the

invitation of Count Boniface, crossed the straits U

Gades, and Mauretania, with the other African pro­

vinces, fell into the hands of the barbarian con­

querors. Belisarius, " the Africanus of New Borne,*

destroyed the kingdom of the Vandals, and Maure­

tania again became a Roman province under an

Eastern exarch. One of his ablest generals, John

the Patrician, for a time repressed the inroad* of

the Moors upon Roman civilisation; and under his

successor, the eunuch Solomon, the long-lost prr*.

vince of Mauretania Sitifensis was restored to the

empire; while the Second Mauretania, with the ex­

ception of Caesareia itself, was in the hands of Ma>-

tigas and the Moors. (Comp. Gibbon, cc xli. xiiii.;

I,c Bean, Bos Empirt, vol. viii.) At length, ia

A. D. 698—709, when the Arabs made the final

conquest of Africa,— desolated for 300 years since

the first fury of the Vandals,—the Moors or Berbers

adopted tho religion, the name, and the origin uf

their conquerors, and sunk back into their mure

congenial state of Mahometan savages.

Pliny (I. c.) makes out the breadth of the two

Mauretaniae as 467 M. P.; but this will be too mm h

even for Tingitania, where Mount Atlas lies imo to

the S., and inure llian 300 M. P. beyond the utmost

extent of any part of C.ie.-ariensU. The same author

gives 170 M. P., which are too few for Tingitania,

and 879 M. P., which are too many for Cananeoaav.

(Shaw, 7"ror. p. 9.)

The following tribes are enumerated by Pto­

lemy (iv. 2. §§ 17—22) in I. MaURsvtasia

Caksakikssis :—Toi>i:cae (Tooowroi), on the

left bank of the Auipsa«a; to the K. of these,

CoF.DAMt'su (KoiSafAovaioi), and still more to

the N., towards the coast, and to the E. on the

Amj^aga, Mucuni (Movfrovvoi) and Cum as

(Xitovw); to the W. of the latter, Tl'UBcaii (Ta»-

AiJr<noi) and Banil'KI (Box'ovpei); S, uf th«e\

Maciu:rk8 (MoxoOpci), Salasxm (2oAaVr>.o. i,

and Malciiibii (Ma\xoitioi); NW. of the Ti-

i.f.nsii. and to the E. of ZaLACca M, and on the

coast, Macchurebi (Moxx*"?')*01)- W. of tbc-*,

and N. of Zalacus, on the mouth of the CbinaUrh.

Machlsii (Maxevffioi); below them, on the vtiirr

