VIA CIJIIN1A. VIA EGNATIA 1297

The Via Cassia branched off from the Via Fla-

minsa jtut after crossing the Tiber by the Milvian

ilridge, 3 miles from Borne. It then ascended the

table-land, and proceeded over a dreary and mono­

tonous plain to Baccanae (Baccano), situated in the

Ua*in or crater of an extinct volcano. Two inter­

mediate small stations are given in tbe Tabala:

Ad Sextnm, which, as its name imports, was sitnated

5 miles from Borne, and tberefure 3 from the Pons

Miiviiu -t and Veii, 6 miles farther: but it is pro-

kable that the ancient Via Cassia, like the modern

highroad, passed by, but not through, the ancient

:sty ; so that the station indicated was probably that

■There the road turned off to Veii, near the Itola

F"armese. The Via Clodia separated from the Cassia

sbout 3 miles beyond the station Ad Seztum, and

.truck off through Careiae (Gulera) and Sabate

[ /Sracciano) to Forum Clodii. The Tabula again

circa an intermediate station, between Sutrium and

Korum Cassii, called Vicus Matrini, the ruins of

« bich are still risible 7 miles beyond Sutri; and

hat at the Aquae Passeris, now called the Bagni di

Srrpa, 12 miles beyond Forum Cassii. The stations

rireii in that document can thus be identified as far

is Clusium. They are :—

Ad Seztum

Veii (near I tola Farntte)

Baccanae ( Baccuno) -

Sutrium {Sutri)

Vicus Matrini

VI. at. P.

vi.

ix.

ziL

(omitted, but

should be vii.)

Forum Cassii ( Vetralla)

Aquae Passeris (Bagni di Strpa) zi.

Volsinii (Boitena) iz.

Ad Palliam Fluvium (R. Paglia) —

Clusium (Chiuti) - - iz.

tut from Clusinm to Florentia the names of the

rations are wholly unknown, and cannot be identi-

*d. with tbe exception of Arretium; and the entire  
oute is given in so confused a manner that it is

to make anything of it.

Liry tells us that C. Flaminius, the colleague of

il. Aemilius Lepidus in B.c. 187, after having effec-

ually reduced the Ligurian tribes that had infested

lie territory of Bononia, conducted a road from

ioaonia, to Arretium (Lir. zzxiz. 2). But it is re-

larkable that we never hear anything more of this

,ne of road, which would seem to have fallen into

isuse; though this pass across the Apennines,

rhich is still traversed by the modem highroad from

■ t>rrmce to Bologna, is one of the easiest of all.

'icero indeed might be thought to allude to this

iute when he speaks of proceeding into Cisalpine

■aval by the Via Cassia (1 c); but the absence of

nr allusion to its existence during the military

cjt rations st that period, or on any other occasion,

reins to prove conclusively that it had not continued

:i use as s military highway.

(For a careful examination and description of the

nrtion of the Via Cassia near Borne, see Westphal,

w>«a. Kamp. pp. 147—153; Nibby, Vie degli An-

uM, pp. 75-82.) [E. H. B.]

VIA CIMIN1A, a name known only from an in-

triplica of the time of Hadrian (Orell. Inter. 3306),

ras probably a short cut constructed across the range

I the Ciminian hills, leaving the Via Cassia to the

■ft, avrxl following nearly the same line as the

K«lern road over the same hills. (Hulsten. Not.

d Cta*. p. 67.) [Cimctos Mom.] [E. H. B.]

VIA CLODIA, was tbe name of a highroad that

.-inched off from the Via Cassia, to the left, about

VOL- II.

10 miles from Rome, near the inn of La Slorta,

where remains of the ancient pavement, indicat­

ing its direction, may still be seen. The name of

the Via Clodia is known to us only from the Itine­

raries, and from inscriptions of imperial date (Orell.

Inter. 822, 3143); but from the form of the name

there can be no doubt that it dates from the repub­

lican period, though we have no account when or by

whom this line of road was constructed. The Itine­

raries indeed seem to have regarded the Via Clodia

as the main line, of which the Via Cassia was only

a branch, or rather altogether confounded the two;

but it is evident from the passage of Cicero above

quoted, that the Via Cassia was, properly speaking,

the main line, and the Clodia merely a branch

of it At the same time, the occurrence of a Forum

Clodii on tbe one branch, as well as a Forum Cassii

on the other, leave no doubt which were the true lines

designated by these names. The course of the Via

Clodia as far as Sabate (Braeciano) admits of no

doubt, though the distances given in the Tabula are

corrupt and uncertain ; but the position of Forum

Clodii is uncertain, and the continuation of tho line

is very obscure. It appears indeed to have held a

course nearly parallel with that of the Via Cassia,

through Blera, Tuscania, and Saturnia; but from

the latter place the Tabula represents it as proceed­

ing to Succosa (Sub Cusa), which would be an ab­

rupt tum at right angles, and could never have been

tbe direction of tbe principal line of road. It is

probable that this was either carried up the valley

of the Ombrone to Siena (Sena Julia), or proceeded

across the marshy plains of that river to join the Via

Aurelia. But this is mere conjecture. The stations,

as given in the Tabula (the only one of the Itinera­

ries in which the true Via Clodia is found), are as

follow :—

From Home to Ad Sextnm - vi. at. P.

Careiae (Calera) - ix.

Ad Novas - - viii

Sabate ( Braeciano) —

Forum Clodii - —

Blera (Bieda) - zvi. (?)

Marts (Ad Msrtam H.) ix.

Tuscania (TotcaneUa) —

Matemum (I'arnete?) xii.

Saturnia (Saturnia) xviii.

The Antonine Itinerary, without giving the route

in detail, says simply —

A Roma Foro Clodii. si. p. xxxii.

If this distance be correct, Forum Clodii must be

placed either at or a little beyond Oriuvlo, which is

6 miles beyond Sabate (Braeciano). The distance

of Oriuolo from Home by the line of the Via Clodia

(as measured on tiell's map), somewhat exceeds 31

miles. But tbe distance from Blera must, in th.it

case, be greatly overstated; the actual distance fn>in

Oriuolo to Bieda being scarcely more than 10 miles.

(Westphal, Rom. Kampagne, pp. 154—158; Den­

nis's itruria, vol. i. p. 273: but the distances

there cited, in the note from the Tabula, are in­

correct.) [ K. H. U.]

VIA DOMITIAXA. [Via Appia, No. 1.]

VIA EGNA'TIA (4 'Ewot.o itoi, Strab. vii.

p. 322, seq.), a Roman military road, which connected

Ulyria, Macedonia, and Thrace. We are almost

totally in the dark with regard to the origin of this

road. The assumption tbsl it was constructed by ■

certain person named E^nalius, who was likewise

the founder of tho town Egnatia, or Gnatia, between

on the coast of Apulia, is

4 o

