SATION. SATRICTJM. 923

k. <km, by » doing, we involve ourselves in a gnat

natural difficult7; for the rerolt of one of the Latin

rotate* it in itself most improbable, and was cer-

UjJt not an en-nt to be passed over with such

ia;b! ontice. The territory of Saticulam ("ager

VkvIuoi ') is again noticed during the same war

:a ocj'jortioo with that of Trebula (Liv. xxiii. 14);

lit from the end of the Second Punic War all trace

<( it disappears. The name is not fonnd in any of

tl* rvorrapbers, and its site is extremely uncertain.

Bat the passages in Livy (ix. 21, 22) seem to point

kr tt being situated not far from Plistia, which may

"n probably be placed at Prtttia near Sta Agata

laGtH; while the description of the march of Mar-

vl:u in a. c 216, shows clearly that it must hare

•en striated S. of the Vultamua, and probably in the

tUtjt at the back of Mount Tifata, between that

»lft and the underfills of Mount Taburnus. It

uj be added that such a position would be a very

x'ual one for the Roman consul to occupy at the

-m outbreak of the Samnite wars, from its prox-  
■ityu Capua. [E. H. B.l

MTIOS. [Dassahxtae, Vol. I. p. 756, a ]

6ATXI0KIS(Xar>'ui(it: TWaor T<ula), a small

iwr in the southern part of Troas, having its sources

lluant Ida, and flowing in a western direction

rtweea Hamaxilus and Larissa, discharges itself

i!" tbe Aegean. It owes its celebrity entirely to

* Hiraeric poems. (/£ vi. 34, xiv. 445, xxi. 87;  
■ah, xai. pp. 605, 606, who states that at a later

Be it was called Ja^ndtir ) [L. S.]

SATRAE (Zarasr, Herod, rii. 110—112), a

tartan people who occupied a portion of tbe range

Us* I'ang&eua,between the Nestus and the Strymon.

T ilntus states that they were the only Thracian

ii« wbo had always preserved their freedom; a fact

r >bich be accounts by the nature of their country,

-» mountainous region, covered with forests and  
d» —and by their great bravery. They alone of

> Tbxadans did Dot follow in the train of Xerxes,

marching towards Greece. The Satrae were

[imriniinn of an oracle of Dionysus, si touted

:*V the luftiest mountain peaks, and the inter-

nVn of which were taken from among the Bessi,—

brrumataoee which has suggested tbe conjecture

t". the Satrae were merely a clan of the Bessi,—

-<mki which is rendered more probable by the fact  
it Herodotus is the only ancient writer wbo men-

■ them; whereas the Bessi are repeatedly spoken

We may infer from Pliny's expression, ** Bes-

asi nrafta nocnina " (iv. 11. s. 18), that the Bessi

n» divided into many distinct clans. Herodotus

■ ilsit to tbe Satrae belonged the principal part

ti* cold and silver mines which then existed in

Psngswas. [J. R.]

>A TKICUM (.Elk. Sarpuraror, Satricanus: Ca-

1 «V Cru-n) am ancient city of Latinm, situated

frontier of the V'olscian territory, between the

«i lulls and the sea. This position rendered it

tar* of importance during the wars between the

taa> and Volscians, and it is frequently men-

»i m history *>t that period. It appears to have

3 originally a Latin city, as Diodoms mentions

name among; the reputed colonies of Alba, and

ortroa also includes it in the list of the thirty

ei of tbe Latin League. (Diod. vii Fr. 3;

■rya. v. 61.) Bat when it first appears in his-

r it ■ as a Volscian town, apparently a depen-

«7 of Anthrm. It had, however, been wrested

Vthat people by the Romans at the same time

i CcraJi Polioses, &c ; and hence it is one of

the towns tie recovery of which by the Volscisns is

ascribed to Coriolanua. (Liv. ii. 39.) It seems to

have continued in their power from this time till

after the Gaulish invasion, as in n. c 386 it was

made the head-quarters of the Volscians and their

allies on the outbreak of a war with Home, and, after

their defeat by Camillus, was assaulted and taken

by that general. (Id. vi. 7, 8.) It would appear

that it must on this occasion have for tbe first time

received a Roman colony, as a few years later (n. c

381) it is styled a "colonia populi Romani." In

that year it was attacked by the Volscians in con­

cert with the Praenestines, and, after an obstinate

defence, was carried by assault, and the garrison put

to the sword. (Id. vi. 22.) It is subsequently

mentioned on two occasions as affording shelter to

the Volscian armies after their defeat by the Ro­

mans (Id. vi. 22, 32); after the last of these (b. c.

377) it was burnt by the Latins, who considered

themselves betrayed by their Volscian allies. (/A.

33.) It was not till b. c. 348 that tbe city was re­

built by the Antiates, who established a colony there;

but two years later it was again taken by the Ro­

mans under M. Valerius Cottos. The garrison, to

the number of 4000 men, were made prisoners, and

the town burnt and destroyed, with the exception of

a temple of Mater Matuta. (Id. vii. 27; Fast.

Capit.) A few years later it was the scene of a

victory of the Romans, under C. Plautius, over the

Antiates (id. viii. 1), and seems to have been soon

after restored, and received a fresh colony, as it was

certainly again inhabited at the commencement of

the Second Samnite War. In B. c. 320, after the

disaster of the Caudine Forks, the Satricans revolted

from Rome and declared in faTour of the Samnites;

bnt they were soon punished for their defection, their

city being taken by the consul Papirius, and the

Samnite garrison put to the sword. (Liv. ix. 12,

16; Ores, iii. 15.) From this time it seems to have

continued subject to Rome; but its name disappears

from history, and it probably sunk rapidly into de­

cay. It is incidentally mentioned during the Second

Punic War (b. c. 206) on occasion of a prodigy

which occurred in the temple of Mater Matuta,

already noticed (Liv. xxviiL 11); bnt it seems cer­

tain that it ceased to exist before the close of the

Republic. Cicero indeed alludes incidentally to the

name in a manner that shows that the site at least

was well known in his time (ad Q. Fr. iii. 1. § 4);

but Pliny reckons it among the celebrated towns of

Latinm. of which, in his days, no vestige remained

(Plin. iii. 5. s. 9); and none of the other geographers

allude to its name. The site, like that of most of tbe

Latin cities which disappeared at an early period, is a

mutter of much doubt; but several passages in Livy

tend to prove that it must have been situated between

Antium and Velitrae, and its site has been fixed

with much probability by Nibby at the farm or ca-

sale, now called Conca, about half way between

Anto and Yelittri. Tbe site is an isolated hill of

tufa, of somewhat quadrangular form, and about

2500 feet in circuit, with precipitous sides, and pre­

sents portions of tbe ancient walls, constructed in

much the same style as those of Ardea. of irregular

square blocks of tufo. The sites of two gates, one

on the £. tbo other to tbe W., may also be distinctly

traced. There is therefore no doubt that the site in

question is that of an ancient city, and the position

would well accord with the supposition that it is

that of Satricum. (Nibby, Dmtorni at Roma, vol.

iii. p. 64, «.) [£. H. IS.]

