SAMBULOS. SAMINTHUS. 889

&LV8UL0& [Baqistahus Mors.]

sAilBUS (Sopfos), a small river which forms

u the tributaries of the Jumna. It is men-

.iwi bj Arrian in his list of Indian rivers (Ind.

.4> [V.]

.MME or SAMOS (2d>), 2o>os ; Eth. *apa7os:

k-iw), the roost ancient city in Cephallenia, which

itw the Dame of this island in the poems of Homer.

Oii-hallesia. j The city stood upon the eastern

jut. uxl npos the channel separating Cephallenia

i fuaca, (Strab. x. p. 455.) Along with the

iwr Ccpoalknian towns it joined the Athenian

.Mtt 'n B.C. ■431. (Thuc ii. 30.) When M.

L-niu patsed over into Cephallenia in it. c. 189,

i-.w at fint submitted to the Romans along with

r other towni of the island; but it shortly after-

irit revolted, and was not taken till after a siege

bur months, when all the inhabitants were sold

i ilana. (Lit. xxxviii. 28, 29.) It appears from

7 j narrative that Same had two citadels, of

trh tie smaller was called Cyatis; the larger be

>tfuttt simply as the major arx. In the time of

n'tK there existed only a few vestiges of the ancient

J. (Strab. Lc.; comp. I'lin. iv. 12. s. 19.)

Same hu given its name to the modern town of

=*\ and to the bay upon which it stands. Its

n'.wn uA the remains of the ancient city are

»mWd by Leake. It stood at the northern ex-

nily of a wide valley, which borders the bay,

I vtnch is overlooked to the southward by the

t •ammit of Mount Aenus ('Elato). It was

i^i upon the north-western face of a bicipitous

cat, wbirh rises from the shore at the northern

1J the modern town. u The ruins and vestiges of

'ior*ct walls show that the city ocenpied the two

ariu. an intermediate hollow, and their slope as

u tlit tea." On tbe northern of the two summits

it* rain* of an acropolis, which seems lo have

r the major arx mentioned by Livy. On the

ti*ra height there is a monastery, on one side of

icb are some remains of a Hellenic wall, and

>-t mis to be the site of the Cyatis, or smaller

There am considerable remains of the town

2a The whole circuit of the city was barely two

»- (Leake, Northern Greece, vol. iiL p. 55.)

AMIA. [Samicum.]

iAHlCCM (Sojua-oV; Eth. Za/ioMOi), a town

rnpJijba in Elis, situated near the coast about

^viy between the mouths of the Alpheius and

KrU, and a little north of the Anigrus. It

d Bpoa a projecting spur of a lofty mountain,

ib sere approaches so near the coast as to leave

» iurrow pass. From its situation commanding

t*A h is probable that a city existed here

l L* earliest times; and it was therefore identi-

*rth tbe Arene of Homer {II ii. 591, xi.  
I J. wbicb tbe poet places near the mouth of the

'.«,» rirer supposed to be the same as the

■eras [AaxSE.] According to Strabo the city

auftoatty called Samos (XaVor), from its being

■ted open a hill, because this word formerly

ii<d "heights." Samicum was at first the

name of the fortress, and the same name was also

given to the surrounding plain. (Strab. viii. pp. 346,

347; Paus. v. 5. § 3.) Pausanias speaks (v. 6. §

1) of a city Sam: \ (5au*u), which he apparently

distinguishes from Samicum; but Samicum is the

only place mentiuned in history. [See some remarks

under Macistus.] Samicum was occupied by the

A>-t"lian Polysperchon against the Arcadians, and

was taken by Philip, n. c. 219. (Paus. v. 6. § 1;

Polyb. iv. 77, 80.) The ruins of Samicum are

found at Khaidffa (written Xoiowwa), which is only

the name of the guarded pass. The ruined walls

are 6 feet thick, and about 1' mile in circumfe­

rence. They are of the second order of Hellenic

masonry, and are evidently of great antiquity. The

towers towards the sea belong to a later age.

Near Samicum upon the const was a celebrated

temple of the Saniian Poseidon, surrounded by a

grove of wild olives. It was the centre of the

religious worship of the six Triphylian cities, all of

whom contributed to its support. It was under the

superintendence of Macistus, the most powerful of

the Triphylian cities. (Strab. viii. pp. 344, 346,

347.) in a corrupt passage of Strabo(p. 344) this

temple is said to be 100 stadia equidistant from

Lepreum and the Annius (too 'Akc/ov) ; for the

latter name we ought to read Alpheius and not

Anigrus, as some editors hsve done.

In the neighbourhood of Samicum there were

celebrated medicinal springs, which were said to

cure cutaneous diseases. Of the two lagoons which

now stretch along the coast, the larger, which ex­

tends as far as the mouth of tbe Alpheius, begins at

the northern foot of the hill upon which Samicum

stands; the southern extends along the precipitous

siiles of the hill, which were called in antiquity the

Achaean rocks. (Strab viii. p. 347.) The river

Anigrus flows into the lstter of these lagoons, and

from thence flows out into the sea. The lagoon is

deep, being fed with subterraneous sources; in

summer it is said lo be very fetid, and the air ex­

tremely unwholesome. Strabo relates that the

waters of the lake were fetid, and its fish not eat­

able, which be attributes to the Centaurs washing

their wounds in the Anigrus. Pausanias mentions

the same circumstances; and both writers describe

the efficacy of the water in curing cutaneous diseases.

There were two caves, one sacred to the Nymphs

Anigrides (*AviypiS*s, Paus.; *A»*i7/)td3ej, Strab.),

and the other to the Atlantides; the former was Uie

more important, and is alone mentioned by Pau­

sanias. It was in the cave of the Anigrides that

the persons who were going to use the waters first

offered up their prayers to the Nymphs. (Strab. viii.

p. 346, seq.; Pans. v. 5. §§ 7—11.) These two

caves are still visible in the rocks; but they are now

accessible only by a boat, as they are immediately

above the surface of the lake. General Gordon, who

visited these caverns in 1835, found in one of them

water distilling from the rock, and bringing with it

a pure yellow sulphur. (Leake, J/oreo, vol. i. p. 54,

seq., PtUrjKmnesiaca, p. 108; Boblaye, Jiechtrckesf

<fc., p. 133, seq.; Curtius, Felopottnaos, vol. ii.

p. 78, seq.)

SAMINTHUS (idfuveos), a town in the Argent,

on the western edge of the Arrive plain, which was

taken by Agis, when he marched from Phliua into

the territory of Argos in b. c. 418. (Time v. 58.)

Its position is uncertain. Leake, who supp<*e*

Agis to have marched over Mt, Lyrceium and the

adjoining hills, places it at Kutzopddhi (Morta9

