1013 SOGDIAXA. SODOM.

jr. v.; Sodom*, -orum, Tertul. Apolog. 40; Sodoma,

-ae, Sever. Snip, i. 6 ; Sedul- Conn. i. 105; Sxlo-  
niurn, Solin. 45. § 8; Sodmni, Tertull. Carm. de

Sodom. 4), the infamous city of Canaan situated

near the Dead Sea in an exceedingly rich and fruit­

ful country, called in its early history "the plain of

Jordan'' and described as " well watered everywhere,

before the Lord destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah, even

as t ho garden of the Lord, like the land of Egypt, as

thou contest to Zoor." (Gen. xiii. 10—12.) It

is also reckoned one of " the cities of the plain"

(xiii. 12. xix. 29), and was probably the Capital of

the Pentapolis, which consisted ol Sodom, Gomorrah,

Adniah, Zcboiim, and Bela, afterwards Zoar {Dent.

xxix. 23; Gen. xiv. 8, xix. 22), all of which towns,

however, had their several ]»ctty kings, who were

confederate together against Chedorlaomer king of

Elam and bis three allies, Amraphel king of Shinar,

Ariocfa king of Ellasar, and Tidal king of nations.

After Chedorlaomer had succeeded in reducing these

sovereigns to subjection, they served him twelve

years; in the thirteenth year they revolted, and in

the fourteenth year were again vanquished by their

northern enemies, when the conquerors were iu

their turn defeated by Abraham, whose nephew Lot

liad been carried captive with all bis property. The

sacred historian has preserved the names of four of

the petty kings who at this time ruled the cities of

the plain, vis. Bera of Sodom, Birsha of Gomorrah,

Shuiab of Admah, and Shemeber of Zcboiim; and the

scene of the engagement was "the vale of Siddim,

which is the salt sea" (Gen. xiv.), an expression

which seems clearly to imply that the battle-field, at

least, was subsequently submerged; the admission

of which fact, however, would not involve the const*

qnence that no lake had previously existed in the plain;

although this too may be probably inferred from the

earlier passage already cited, which seems to de­

scribe a wide plain watered by the river Jordan, as

the plain of Egypt is irrigated by the Nile: and as

this vale of Siddim WSJ full of slime-pita (beds of

bitumen), its subsidence naturally formed the Asphalt

Lake. The catastrophe of the cities, as described in

the sacred narrative, does not certainly convey the

idea that they were submerged, fur fire and not

water was the instrument of their destruction (Gen.

xix.; S. Jtufa 7); so that the cities need not neces­

sarily have been situated in the middle of the valley,

but on the sloping sides of the hills which confined

the plain, from which they would still be appropri­

ately denominated "cities of the plain.'1 (Roland,

PalaeStina, p. 255.) This is remarked in order to

remove what has been regarded as a fundamental

objection to the hypotheses of a late traveller, who

claims to have recovered the sites of all the cities of

the Pentapolis, which, as he maintains, are still

marked by very considerable rains of former habi­

tations. Whatever value may be attached to the

identification of the other four, there is little doubt

that the site of Sodom is correctly fixed near the

south-western extremity of the lake, where the

modern native name Utdom or Ksdoni, containing

all the radicals of the ancient name, is attached toa

plain and a hill (otherwise called Khashm. or JcbtU

*I-M tilth, i. c. the salt hill), which consequently  
lias long been regarded as marking the site of that

accursed city. This singular ridge has been several

times explored and described by modern travellers,

whose testimony is collected and confirmed by Dr.

Robinson (fiibl. lies, vol. ii. p. 481—483); but it

was reserved for the diligence or imagination of M. de

Saulcy to discover the extensive oi&rv tea av

cient city, covering the small plain and rasas

on the north and north-east of the *;;-ra1e*,

and extending along the bed of Koay/Kw

( l oyaye auUmr de la Mer Marie* L pa. 7

74). On the other side of the question si Vi

Velde is the latest authoritv. ( Syria and Pi'

in 1851 and 1852, pp. 1H. 115, natt>

Lynch, of the American exploring expedaiaa,

given a striking view of ibis salt mcumsia,

tive of his description of the vicinity of I'aesB. (1

peditum to the Dead Sea, pp. 306—

SODRAE (ZEofyai), a tribe met with »J

ander the Great in the lower Panjab, nor

according to Diodorus (xvii. llttV The

probably of Indian origin, and may repraaef

caste of the Swlrat.

SOGDI (2tf~,5wi). one of the smaller

by Arrian (A nab. vi. 15) as encountered

under in the lower Punjab. By their

would appear to represent an inmagraina)

north.

SOGDIA'NA (^ 2<ry5ionk Strah.

p. 51G; Plot vi. 12, &c), a widely

trict of Central Asia, the boundaries of

not consistently laid down by anciest

Generally, it may be stated that Safdisaa

tween the Ox us and the Jaxartes, ss

limits, the former separating it from

Ariana, the latter from the nomad

Scythia. (Strab. xi. pp. 511, 5H;

1.) To the W. the province was extendi

direction of the Caspian sea, but. in early

least, not to it; to the K. were the

Seres. The district comprehended the

of the present Turkestan* with thi

hara, which bears to this day the

The character of the country waa very

some part of it being very moon1

jjart, as the valley of Bokhara, rery

ductive. The larger extent would

been, as at present, a great waste. (,

iv. 16; Curt. vii. 10. § 1.) At the

Alexander visited the country, there

been extensive forests, filled with ail

game, and surrounded, at least in

walls, as preserves. Alexander

hunted down 4000 wild beasts.

§ 19)

The principal mountain chains are

the lfontas Oxii to the N. (at

Mountains,') the Comedaram Muntes

range of the Ai-tagh or Whit* Aft

S., and the Montes Sogdii (the

which is not certain, there beiug

they comprehend the Htlur-tapk

Kara-taghy The two great riven of tasv

were those which formed its

(GiMon or Amu-lterjtt) and the J

Sjfr-Dmrjm). There are, also,

streams, several smaller ones,

rivers, as the Demos, Its scat is, and tie

the latter, doubtless, the stream which

the town of Sogd. The generic

habitants of Sogdiana is Sopdii or

iv. 16, 18; Plin. vL 16 , Curt. iiL *. §

race who, as is stated by Strabo (xL p $\7\

in character at least, to have bonis* a

bianco to their neighbours of Ksctmu.

these. Ptolemy and other writers have fh

of other names.— those, probably, «f 1st

(Oesft

. feeaVrs of i

