978

SICILIA.

SK

and prosperity far surpassing that of either of its

mother cities. Sefinus was the most westerly of the

Greek colonies, and immediately bordered on the ter­

ritory of the Klyrni and the Phoenician or Carthagi­

nian settlements. On the N. coast of the island,

the only independent Greek colony was Himkka,

founded about u. c. 648 by the Zanelaeans; Mvlae,

another colony of the same people, having apparently

continued, from its proximity, to be a mere depen­

dency of Zancle. To the above list of Greek colo­

nies must be added CA LUPOUS and Euboea, both

of them colonies of Naxos, but which never seem to

have attained to consideration, and disappear from

history at an early period.*

Our accounts of the early history of these nu­

merous Greek colonies in Sicily are unfortunately

very scanty and fragmentary. We learn indeed in

general terms that they rose to considerable power

and importance, and enjoyed a high degree of wealth

atid prosperity, owing as well to the fertility and

natural advantages of the island, as to their foreign

commerce. It is evident also that at an early period

they extended their dominion over a considerable

part of the adjoining country, so that each city had

its district or territory, often of considerable extent,

and comprising a subject population of native origin.

At the same time the Sicels of the interior, in the

central and northern parts of the island, and the

Sicaiiians and Ely mi in the W., maintained their

independence, though they seem to have given but

little trouble to their Greek neighbours. During

the sixth century B.C. the two most powerful cities

in the island appear to have been Agrigentum and

Gela, Syracuse not having yet attained to that pre­

dominance which it subsequently enjoyed. Agri­

gentum, though one of the latest of the Greek colo­

nies in Sicily, seems to have risen rapidly to pros­

perity, and under the able, though tyrannical

government of the despot Pbalaris (u. c. 570—554)

became apparently for a time the most powerful

city in the island. But we know very little about

his real history, and with the exception of a few

scattered and isolated notices we have hardly any

account of tLe affairs of the Greek cities before B. O.

500. At or before that period we find that a poli­

tical change had taken place in most of these com­

munities, and that their governments, which had

originally been oligarchical, had passed into the

hands of despots or tyrants, who ruled with uncon­

trolled power. Such were Panaetius at Leontiui,

Oleander at (tela, TeriUus at Himera, and Scythes at

Zancle (Arist. Pol. v. 12; Herod, vi. 23, vii.

154). Of these Cleander seems to have been the

most able, and laid the foundation of a ]>ower which

enabled his brother and successor Hippocrates to

extend his dominion over a great part of the island.

Callipolis, Leontini, Naxos, Zancle, and Camarina

successively fell under the arms of Hippocrates, and

Syracuse itself only escaped subjection by the inter­

vention of the Corinthians (Herod, vii. 154). But

what Hippocrates had failed to effect was accomp­

lished by Gelon, who succeeded him as despot of

Gela, and by interposing in the civil dissensions of

the Syracusaus ultimately succeeded in making

* The above summary of the progress of Greek  
colonisation in Sicily is taken almost wholly from

Thucydides (vi. 3—5). See, however, Scvmnus

Chius (270—299) and Slrabo (vi. pp. 267—272).

The dates are fully discussed by Clinton (Fasti Hel-

lenki, vol. i.)

himself master of that

this time Gelon neglectei

Gela, and directed all h

ment of his new acoui

marina, and removed all

together with a large par

all the principal citizer

Euboea (Herod, vii. 156

Syracuse was thus rai

city in Sicily, which it i

afterwards. A few year

bad established hansel!

sovereign power at Agr

extended his dominion OS

he expelled Terillus, b.

time also Anaxilaus, d<

other side of the straits,

Sicily, where he becanie

he gave the name of M<

afterwards known [M*

appear to have been mer

and liberal views, and tt

diate government appar«

power and prosperity. <

possessed at this period |

no other Greek state ssj

shown by the embassy s

Athens to invoke his as>i

invasion of Xerxes (II

his attention was called

diately at hand. Terill

Himera, had called in tl

ginians, and that people

under a general named

Himera, b. c. 480. Tl

maintain possession of I

Gelon with an army of

to his relief, with whicl

the Carthagiulan forces,

feated the army of Ha

which was contempora

Salamis, raised Gelon to

tion, and became not le&

lian Greeks than those of

their continental bretln

prisoners taken at Hiine

among the cities of Si

wealth and resources, ar

by many of them to ere<

continued to adorn th

(Diod. xi. 25).

Gelon did not long |

Himera: but he tranam

to his brother Hieron.

greatly inferior to Gelon

respects even superior

great naval victory by

maeans in Italy from t

nians and Tyrrhenians (

merited reputation thn

At the same time the n

oppressive to the Chalet

of which he broke by

Naxos and Catana, win

to Leontini, while he re

body of new inhabitant!

changed its name to Ae

to reign at Agrigentum

but his son Thrasydaeus

incurred the enmity i

enabled by the asaiaUn

