•SICAXI. SICILIA. 975

H; Or. Amor. i. 14. 49; Veoant. Fort, tie Ckarib.

Kaje, vi.4; Gregor. Turon. ii. 31; Procop. Bell. Goth.

. 12; Lydu<. de Magutr. i. 50, iii. 36; Zeuss, l)U

T«mOdtm, p. 83, folL; Wilhelm, Germanien, p. 142,

id.) . [L.S.]

bJCAKL [Sicuu.]

SICCA VENEKIA (2'**a or 2fca Over/rota,

HuL r*.3. § 30, \ ;n. 2. § 9), a considerable town of

k'linudia on the river Bagradas, and on the road from

'•tr:bago to Uippo Rep us, and from Musti to Cirta.

A ut. pp. 41, 45.) It was built on a bill, and,

eoordtog to Pliny (v. 3. s. 2), was a Roman colony.

Fa learn from Valerius Maxim us (ii. 6. § 15) that it

tnred its surname from a temple of Venus which

uied there, in which, agreeably to a Phoenician

islam, the maidens of the town, including even

km uf good family, publicly prostituted themselves,

I order to collect a marriage portion; a circumstance

inch shows that the town was originally a Phoeni-

t: t«t lie men t, devoted to the worship of As t arte.

:«mp. Sm\l Jug. 56; Polyb. i. 66, 67.) Shaw

TrnrtU^ p. 87) takes it to be the modern Keff,

\tre a statue of Venus lias been found, and an in-

ripcion, with the words Ordo Siccensiuin. (Comp.

•cati, SuppL The*. Mural, ii. pp. 266. 6; Orelli,

nrr. no. 3733.) [T. H. D.j

SiCELLA. [Ziklao.]

MCHEM. [Nkapolm II.]

ILIA 1 i..!AiJ: /./.■'. Huctkidrw*, Siciliensis:

nt'ji, one of the largest and must important

anas in the Mediterranean. It was indeed gene-

b'y reckoned the largest of all; though some ancient

v.rra considered Sardinia as exceeding it in size,

titw which, according to the researches of modem

craphers, tarns out to be correct. [Sardinia].

I. General Description.

The general form of Sicily is that of a triangle,

rag its shortest side or base turned to the E.,

d M-paraied at its NE. angle from the adjoining

wt of Italy only by a narrow strait, called in

• r:-t times the Kretum SlCULUM or Sicilian

it, bat now more commonly known as the Straits

M'jxma. It was generally believed in antiquity

■t >.t iiv had once been joined to the continent uf

It, and severed from it by some natural convul-

a (Strmh. vi. p. 258; Plin. iii. 8. s. 14; Virg.

a in. 414.) But though this is probably trne

i -logical sense, it is certain that the separation

it hare taken place at a very early period, not

'-u- before the hutorical age, but before the first

rv of tradition. On the other side, the W. extre-

y %4 .s:t i'.y stretches out far towards the coast

t-nra, so that the westernmost point of the island,

. ;im-i uf Lilybaeum. is separated only by ar.

ml of SO geogr. miles from the Uennaean

re mtury, or Cape Bon in Africa,

[bt general triangular form of Sicily was early

Cvawd, and is described by all the ancient geo-

pbtra. The three promontories that may be con-

sad as forming the angles of the triangle, viz.

# Pelorus to the NE., Cape Pachynus to the SE.,

Lilybaeum on the W., were also generally known

received (Poi i. 42; Strab. vi. pp. 265, 266;

l iii. 8. ft. 14; PtoL iii. 4; Mel. ii. 714). Its

■■ u axe variously given: Strabo, on the au-

ut uf Poaidocius, estimates the side from Pelo­

id Lilybaeum, which he reckons the longest, at

10 fcta*iiA (or 170 geogr. miles); and that from

„ to Pelorus, the shortest of the tunc at

M stadia. Pliny on the contrary reckons 186

Roman miles (149 geogr.) from Pelorus to Pachy­

nus, 200 M.P. (160 geogr. miles) from Pachynus

to Lilybaeum, and 170 M.P. (136 geogr.) from

Lilybaeum to Pelorus: thus making the northern

side the shortest instead of the longest. But Strabo's

views of the proportion of the three sides are

entirely correct; and his distances but little exceed

the truth, if some allowance be made for the wind­

ings of the coast. Later geographers, from the

time of Ptolemy onwards, erroneously conceived the

position of Sicily as tending a great deal more to the.

SW. than it really does, at the same time that they

gave it a much more regular triangular form; and

this error was perpetuated by modern geographers

down to the time of D'Anville, and was indeed not

altogether removed till the publication of the va­

luable coast survey of the island by Captain Smyth.

(See the map published by Magini in 16*20, and

that of D'Anville in his Analyse Geographique de

lltalie, Paris 1744.)

A considerable part of Sicily is of a mountainous

character. A range of mountains, which are geolo­

gically of the same character as those in the southern

portion of Bruttium (the group of Asjiromonte),

and may be considered almost as a continuation uf

the same chain, interrupted only by the intervening

strait, rises near Cape Pelorus, and extend* at first

in a SW. direction to the neighbourhood of Taor-

mina (Tauromenium) from whence it turns nearly

due W. and continues to hold this course, running

parallel with the X. coast of the island till it rises

into the elevated group of the Muttte Madonia, a

little to the S. of Cefalii (Cephaloedium.) From

thence it breaks up into more irregular masses of

limestone mountains, which fonn the central nucleus

of the W. portion of the island, while their anus

extending down to the sea encircle the Bay of

Palermo, as well as the more extensive Gulf of

Casteilamare, with bold and almost isolated head­

lands. The detached mass of Mount Ebtx(I/o*sj

di S. Giuliano) rises near 7Vapanialmost at the \f.

extremity of the island, but with this exception the

W. ami SW. coast round to Sciacca, 20 miles be­

yond the site of Selinus, is comparatively low and

shelving, and presents no bold features. Another

range or mass of mountains branches off from that

of the Monte Madonia near Pulizzi, and trends in

a SE. direction through the heart of the island,

forming the huge hills, rather than mountains, on

one of which Enna was built, and whhh extend

from thence to the neighbourhood of Piazza ar.d

Aidtme. The whole of the SE. corner of the. island

is occupied by a mass of limestone hills, never rising

to the dignity nor assuming the forms of moun­

tains, but forming a kind of table-lan>i. with a

general but very gradual slope towards the S. and

SE.; broken up, however, when viewed in detail,

into very irregnlar masses, being traversed by deep

valleys and ravines, and presenting steep escarpments

of limestone rock, so as to constitute a rugged and

difficult country.

None of the mountains above described attain to

any great elevation. The loftiest group, that of the

Monte Madonia, does not exceed 3765 feet, while

the average height of the range which extends fruiu

thence to Cape*' Pelorus, is little, if at all, above

3000 feet high. Monte S. Giuliano, the ancient

Eryx, erroneously considered in ancient times as the

highest mountain in Sicily after Aetna [Khyx], is

in reality only 2184 feet in height (Smyth's Sicily,

p. 242). The ancicut appellations given to these

/

