TARQU1XII. TARRACINA. 1103

irrjiui; but though it n there termed "Colonia

njainii," it is certain that it did not retain the

it ot a colony; Cicero distinctly speaks of it as a

i minpioai," and the Tarquinienses are ranked

Pliny among the ordinary municipal towns of

runs. Its municipal rank is further confirmed

nvriptinns recently discovered on the site. {Lib.

I. p. 819; Cic. pro Cote. 4 ; Plin. iii. 5. s. 8;

i. iiL 1. § 50; Inter, in Bullett. d. Inst. Arch.

TO, pp. 188, 199.) From these last records we

-n that it was apparently still a flourishing town  
:tr bice of the Antonines, and its name is still

id is the Tabula near three centuries later

ii Prut) It is probable, therefore, that it sur-

-I the fall of the Western Empire, and owed its  
U delation to the Saracens.

V: the present day the site of the ancient city is

>!ly desolate and uninhabited; but on a hill about

ius and a half distant stands the modern city of

-wto, the origin of which does not date further  
It than the eighth or ninth century. It was pro-

ly peopled with the surviving inhabitant* of Tar-

c:l The site of the latter is clearly marked: it

Tp~l, like most Etruscan cities, the level summit

i lull, bounded on all sides by steep, though not

-iptoae escarpments, and occupying a space of  
at a mile and a half in length, by half a mile in

greatest breadth. It is still known as Turchina,

:di called also the Piano di Civila. Hardly any

u are now visible, but the outline of the walls

- be traced around the brow of the hill, partly by  
liitions still hi situ, partly by fallen blocks. The

>-*t point of the hill (furthest to the W. and

-»t to the Maria) seems to have served as the  
: or citadel, and here the foundations of some

■J nc*. supposed to he temples, may be traced.

it'u.i fragments of buildings of Roman date are

ru-ible, and though insignificant in themselves,

in conjunction with tlie inscriptions already

timed, that the site was well inhabited in Roman

-. (Dennis's Etruria, vol. i. pp. 371—385.)  
ut by far the most interesting remains now

le it Tarquinii are those of the Necropolis, which

tried almost the whole of the hill opposite to the

, at Lha W. extremity of which stands the

•m town of Coneto. The whole surface of the

t ■ its Dennis) " is rugged with tumuli, or what

cure been such," whence the appellation by

h rt is Bow known of MontarozzL Vast num-

f tbe»e tombs have been opened, and have

i! a rich harvest of rases, ornaments, and other

ts of antiquity. Bat the most important are

rflf* which the walls are adorned with paintings,

u possess a double interest, both as works of art

(ram the light they throw upon Etruscan man-

It may indeed he asserted in general of the

rings ia these tombs that while the influence of

k art ia unquestionably to be traced in their de-

»ad execution, the subjects represented and the

:«! tbey exhibit are purely Etruscan. The

her of these painted tombs found at Tarquinii

i.t exceeds those which have been discovered on

ute of any other city of Etruria; but they still

■tdy a very small proportion to the whole num-

• t<mba opened, so that it is evident this mode

■ -oration was far from general. The paintings

is; of those first opened, which are figured in the

• <-<f Mkaliand Ingbirami, have since been allowed

il into decay, and have in great measure disap-

«L Detailed descriptions of all the most in-

of them, as well as thuso more recently

discovered, will be found in Dennis's Etruria (vol. i.

pp. 281—364.) [E. H. B.]

TARRACI'NA (To/if(Wo, Strab.; To#d«7|ra,

Steph. B.: Eth. Tap^axiyhris, Tarracinensis: Ter-

racina), a city of Latium in the more extended sense

of that name, but originally a Volscian city, situated

on the Tyrrhenian sea, about 10 miles from Circeii,

and at the extremity of the Pomptine Marshes. It was

also known by the name of Ajixlh, and we learn

from Pliny and Uvy that this was its Volscian name,

while Tarracina was that by which it was known to

the Latins and Romans. (Plin. iii. 5. s. 9; Ennius

ap. Fest. «. v. Anxur; Liv. iv. 59.) The name of

Anxur is frequently used at a much later perUxl by

the Roman poets (Hot. .Sat. i. 5. 26; Lucan. iii.

84; Martial, v. 1.6, &c), obviously because Tar­

racina could not be introduced in verse; but Cicero,

I.ivy, and all other prose writers, where they are

speaking of the Roman town, universally call it

Tarracina. The Greek derivation of the latter name

suggested by Straho (v. p. 233), who says it waa

originally called Tpaxirf), from its rugged situation,

is probably a mere etymological fancy. The first

mention of it in history occurs in the treaty between

Rome and Carthage concluded in B. c. 509, in which

the people of Tarracina are mentioned in common with

those of Circeii, Antium, &c, among the subjects or

dependencies of Rome, (PoL iii. 22.) It seems cer­

tain therefore that Tarracina, as well as Circeii, was

included in the Roman dominions before the fall of

the monarchy. But it is clear that it must have

again fallen under the dominion of the Volscians, pro­

bably not long after this period. It was certainly in

the possession of that people, when its name next

appears in history, in n. c 406. On that occasion

it waa attacked by N. Fabius Ambustus, and taken

by a sudden assault, while the attention of the Vol­

scian armies was drawn off in another direction.

(Liv. iv. 57; Died. xiv. 16.) Livy speaks of it as

having at this time enjoyed a long period of power

and prosperity, and still possessing great wealth,

which was plundered by the Roman armies. A few

years afterwards (n. c 402) it again fell into the

hands of the Volscians, through the negligence of

the Roman garrison (Liv. v. 8). In b. c. 400, it

was again besieged by the Roman arms under Vale­

rius Pntitua, and though his first assaults were re­

pulsed, and he was compelled to have recourse to a

blockade, it soon after fell into his hands. (76.12,

13.) An attempt of the Volscians to recover it in

397 proved unsuccessful (lb. 16), and from this

time the city continued subject to Rome. Nearly

70 years later, after the conquest of Pnvemum, it

was thought advisable to secure Tarracina with a

Roman colony, which was established there in u c.

329. (Liv. viii. 21; Veil. Pat. i. 14.)

The condition of Tarracina as a Roman colony ia

not quite clear, for Velleius notices it as if it had

been one of the " Coloniae Latinae," while Livy cer­

tainly does not consider it as such, for be omits its

name among the- thirty Latin colonies in the time

of the Second Punic War, while he on two occa­

sions mentions it in connection with the other mari­

time colonies, Antium, Minturnae, &c. In common

with these, the citizens of Tarracina in vain con­

tended for exemption from military service during

the Second Punic War, and at a biter perind

claimed exemption from naval service also. (Liv.

xxvii. 38, xxxvi. 3.) There ran, therefore, be no

doubt that Tarracina was a "colonia maritima

civium," and it seems to have early become one of

