363 SERIPHOS.

period of several centuries. On the other hand, i

may it not be possible that the product was called

after the people, instead of the people after the pro-

duct? We are not without examples of an analo- |

£ous procedure; its, for instance, the name of the

phasis, or pheasant, from the river Phasis; of our

own w.ird currants, anciently and properly Ctirintfis,

from the place wlience that small species of grape

was originally brought, &C However this may be,

we may refer the reader who is desirous of a further

account of tlie origin and manufacture of silk, to an

excellent dissertation in the Ttxtrinum Antiquarum.

of Mr. Yates (part i. p. 160, seq.), where he will

find all the passages in ancient authors that bear

upon the subject carefully collected and discussed.

Besides its staple article, Seriea also produced a

Tast quantity of precious stones of every kind {Ex­

pos, tot. Mutidi, ap. Hudson, iii. p. 1, seq.), as well

as iron, which was esteemed of a better quality even

than the Parthian (Plin. /. c.) and skins {Per. M.

Erythr. p. 22; Amm. /. c.)

According to Pattsanias (vi. 22. § 2) the Peres

were a mixture of Scythians and Indians. They

are mentioned by Strabo (xv. p. 701), but only in a

cursory manner. It appears from Mela (iii. 7) and

from Pliny (vi. 17. s. 24), compared with Eusta-

thius (ml Dumy$. Per. v. 753, seq.), and Ammianus

Marcellinus (/. c), that they were a just and gentle

people, loving tranquillity and comfort. Although

addicted to commerce, they were completely isolated

from the rest of the world, and carefully avoided all

intercourse with strangers. From these habits, they

were obliged to carry on their commercial transac­

tions in a very singular manner. They inscribed

the prices of their goods open the bales in which

they were packed, and then deposited them in a

solitary building called the Stone Tower; perhaps

the same place mentioned by Ptolemy (vi. 15. §3)

under the name of Hormcterion, situated in a valley

on the upper course of the Jaxartes, and in the

Scythian district of Casia. The Scythian merchants

then approached, and having deposited what they

deemed a just price for the goods, retired. After

their departure, the Seres examined the sum de­

posited, and if they thought it sufficient took it

away, leaving the goods: but if not enough was

found, they removed the latter instead of the money.

In the description of this mode of traffic we still

recognise the characteristics of the modern Chinese.

The Parthian* also traded with the Seres, and it

was probably through the former that the Humans

at a later period procured most of their silk staff*;

though the i'artbiaus passed them off as Assyrian

goods, which seems to bare been believed by the

Romans (Plin. xi. 22. s. 25). After the overthrow

of the Parthian empire by the Persians, the silk

trade naturally fell into the hands of the latter.

(Vopi.sc. Aurti. c. 45; l'rocop. if. Pert. i. 20, &c.)

With regard to their persons, the Seres are de­

scribed as being of unusual size, with blue eyes, red

hair, and a rough voice (Plin. vi. 22. s. 24), almost

totally unacquainted with diseases and bodily infir­

mities (Expos, tut. Mundi, I. a), and consequently

reaching a very great age (Ctes. l.c,\ St rub. xv.

p. 701; Luciau, Macrob. 5). They were armed

with bows and arrows (Hor. Od. L 29. 9; Cliaric.

vi. 3). Ptolemy {11. or.) enumerates several dis­

tinct tribes of them, as the Annibi, in the extreme

N., on the mountains named after them; the Zizyges,

between them and the Auxacian mountains; the

Damnae, to the S. of these; and elill further S.,

down to the river Oeehardes, tbe False: tia

Oechardae, who dwelt about the river cf the mm

name; and the Garenaei and Nabaiinse, to ts* Lrf

the Annibi. To the S. of these again vat the §m

trict of Asmiraea. near tbe mountains cf tie ■

name, and still further in the same direeua

Issedones; to the E. of whom were the

To the S. of the I

S. of the Throani the Lthaguri. Lastly, co 1

extreme southern borders were seated the 1

the Ottorocorrae,—tbe latter, who most doasssstl

the same people called by Pliny Attaceri, <

like-named mountain. To the

must also be ascribed the

Arrian's PeripL M. Erythr. (p. 37), i

broad foreheads and flat noses, and, from toe <

scription of them, evidently a Mongol met.

migrated yearly with their wives and ehiidm I

the borders of Sinae, in order to celebrate

festivals there; and when they liad returned Zr

interior of their country, the reed* which they 1

behind them, and which had served them for*

were carefully gathered up by the Sines*, ia i

to prepare from it the Malabathroo, a i

ointment which they sold in India. (Comp. 1

Erdkunde, ii. p. 179, v. p. 443, 2nd ed.; T

das A tie fndien, ii. p. 173; Heeren'a, /

p. 494). According to Ammianus (L c) tb* t

of Serica were few in number, but lar^e ana i

Ptolemy, in the places cited at the bead d t

article, names fifteen of them, of which tbe I

important seem to have been. Sera, the capital sf 4

nation; Issedon: Throaua, on the E.dediriry«f4

Asmiraei mountains, and on the easternznei

of the Oeehardes; Asmiraea, on the sanr i

but somewhat to the XW. of I

Aspacara, on the left bank of the iUoiisss, I

far from its most western source; and

corra. [T.H.I

SERIMUM (2*>iM<>r. Ptol. iii. 5. § 2SX a I

on the Borysthcues, in the interior of

Sarmatia. [T. H 1

SERl'PHOS or SERI'PHUS (Septet:

2fpi'<£ii>5: Serpko),an island in the Atgaasai

one of the Cyclades, lyinc between CytbasM

Siphnos. According to Pliny (ir. 12- S 13)1

12 miles in circumference. It pas

the same name, with a harbour. (Serial. J

Ptol. iii. 15. § 31.) It is celebrated is'

as the place w here Danae and Perseus i

to shore in the chest in which they had bees «

by Acrisiust where Perseus was brvofbi

where he afterwards turned the inbabkass*^|

>tMii«- wit!i the (ii-r^'h's ].. .i,:. (A, i |1

Pind. Pytk. x. 72, xii. 18; Strab. l p.

Met. v. 242.) Seriphos was tulonbvd by- f

from Athens, and it was one of tbe sew i"

refused submission to Xerxes. (Herod, fin. 4

By subsequent writers Seripbos is alma

mentioned with contempt on account of i

and insignificance (Aristoph. Adun. MS;

Rep. i. p. 329; Plat, dt ExtiL 7. p. €03; \

A'al. Dear. I 31, de Senect, 3); and it ta

reason employed by the Roman emperors ]

of banishment for state criminaK (Tac.

iv. 21; Juv. vi. 564, x. 170; Senec. i

It is curious that the ancient writers l

tion of the iron and copper mines of 5

were, however, worked in antiquity, a

existing traces, and which, one i

would have t

