JERUSALEM. 29 IGILIUM.

furais a small plain, which is cultivated by the

villagers of Sileam.

In the mouth of the southern valley which forms

the continuation of these three valleys towards the

Dead Sea, is a deep well, variously called the Well

of Xrhrmiah, of Job, or Joab; supposed to be

identical with Enrogel, "the well of the spies,"

mentioned in the borders of Judah and Benjamin,

and elsewhere (Josh. xv. 7, xviii. 16; 2 Sam. xvii. 17;

1 Kings, i. 9).

On the opposite side of the valley, over against the

Mount of Offence, is another high rocky hill, facing

Mount Sion, called the Hill of Evil Council,

from a tradition that the house of Annas the high-

priest, father-in-law to Caiaphas (St. John, xviii. 13,

24), once occupied this site. There is a curious

coincidence with this in a notice of Josephus, who,

in his account of the wall of circumvallation, mentions

the monument of Ananus in this part (v. 12. § 2);

which monument has lately been identified with an

ancient rock-grave of a higher class,—the Aceldama

of ecclesiastical tradition,—a little below the ruins

ou this hill; which is again attested to be "the Potter's

Field," by a stratum of white clay, which is still

worked. (Schultz, Jerusalem, p. 39.)

This grave is one of a series of sepulchres ex­

cavated in the lower part of this hill ; among which

are several bearing Greek inscriptions, of which all

that is clearly intelligible are the words THC.

AITAC. ClaN., indicating that they belonged to

inhabitants or communities in Jerusalem. (See the

Inscriptions in Krafft, and the comments on his

decipherments in the Holy City, Memoir, pp. 56

—60).

Higher up the Valley of Hinnom is a large and

very ancient pool, now called the Sultan's (Birketj-es-

Sw/fac).from the fact that it was repaired, and adorned

with a handsome fountain, by Sultan Suliman Ibn-

S*h'm,1520—1566, the builder of the present city-

wall. It is, however, not only mentioned in the medi­

aeval notices of the city, but is connected by Nehemiah

with another antiquity in the vicinity, called Kn-nebi

Daid. On Mount Sion, immediately above, and to

the east of the pool, is a large and irregular mass of

bonding, supposed by Christians, Jews, and Moslems,

to contain the Tomb of David, and of his successors

the kings of Judah. It has been said that M. de

Saufcv has attempted an elaborate proof of the iden­

tity of the Tombs of the Kings, at the head of the

Valley of Jehoshaphat, with the Tomb of David.

His theory is inadmissable ; for it is clear, from the

notices of Nehemiah, that the Sepulchres of David

were not far distant from the Pool of " Siloah," close

to " the pool that was made,"and, consequently, on that

part of Mnuxtt Sion where they are now shown. (Are-

Am. in. 16—19.) The memory of David's tomb

was still preserved until the destruction of Jerusalem

(Joaaphus, Ant. xiii. 8. § 4, xvi. 7. § 1; Acts, ii. 29),

and is noticed occasionally in the middle ages. (See

Hobj City, vol. ii. pp. 505 — 513.) In the same pile

of buildinga, now occupied by the Moslems, is shown

the Coenaculum where our Lord is said to have in­

stituted the Last Supper. Epiphanius mentions that

this charch was standing when Hadrian visited Jeru­

salem (Pond, et Mens. cap. xiv.), and there St. Cyril

delivered some of his catechetical lectures (Catech.

xvi. 4). It was in this part of the Upper City that

Titos spared the houses and city wall to form bar­

racks for the soldiers of the garrison. (Vide sup.)

Above the Pool of the Sultan, the Aqueduct of

Pontius Pilate, already mentioned, crosses the Valley

of Hinnom on nine low arches; and, being carried

along the side of Mount Sion, crosses the Tyropoeon

by the causeway into the Haram. The water is con­

veyed from Etham, or the Pools of Solomon, about

two miles south of Bethlehem. (Josephus, B. J. ii. 9.

§4.)

The mention of this aqueduct recalls a notice of

Strabo, which has been perpetually illustrated in the

history of the city; viz., that it was e>rbs fiiv tvvbpov

itcrbs bi vavrtKws Sii^rjptlc aiirb fiiv tttvbpov,

tV 8c kvk\u> xwpap ex0** \irtrpav Hal &vvbpov.

(xvi. p. 723.) Whence this abundant supply was

derived it is extremely difficult to imagine, as, of

course, the aqueduct just mentioned would be im­

mediately cut off in case of siege; and, without

this, the inhabitants of the modern city are almost

entirely dependent on rain-water. But the accounts

of the various sieges, and the other historical notices,

as well as existing remains, all testify to the fact

that there was a copious source of living water in­

troduced into the city from without, by extensive

subterranean aqueducts. The subject requires, and

would repay, a more accurate and careful investiga­

tion. (See Holy City, vol. ii. p. 453—505.)

Besides the other authorities cited or referred to

in the course of this article, the principal modern

sources for the topography of Jerusalem are the fol­

lowing:— Dr. Robinson's Biblical Researches, vols,

i. and ii; Williams's Holy City; Dr. Wilson's Lands of

the Bible; Dr. E. G. Schultz, Jerusalem; W. Krafft,

Die Topographic Jerusalems; Carl Kittcr, Die Krd-

kunde von Alien, <fc., Palastina, Berlin, 1852, pp.

297—508; Dr. Titus Tobler, Golgotha, 1851; Die

Siloahquelle imd die Oelberg, 1852; Denkbldtter aus

Jerusalem, 1853; F. de Saulcy, Voyage autour de la

Mer Morte, torn. 2. [G. W.]

COINS OF AELIA CAFITOLINA (JERUSALEM).

IESPUS. [Jaccetani.]

JEZKEEL. [Esdbaela.]

1GILGILI CI71A71W, l'tol.: Jijelt), a sea-port of

Mauritania Caesariensis, on the Sinus Numidicus,

made a Roman colony by Augustus. It stands on

a headland, on the E. side of which a natural road­

stead is formed by a reef of rocks running parallel

to the shore; and it was probably in ancient times

the emporium of the surrounding country. (Itin.

Ant. p. 18; Plin. v. 2. s. 1; Ptol. iv. 2. § 11;

Ammian. Marc. xxix. 5; Tab. Peut.; Shaw, Tra­

vels, p. 45; Barth, Wanderungen, cf-c, p. 66.) [P.S.]

IGILIUM (Giglio), an island off the coast of

