MUTINA. MUZA. 379

Be dry and it* territory had began to feel severely

u* niirni;iei that were pressing upon the whole of

lin fertile sad once flourishing tract of country.

h a. D. 377, the remains of the conquered tribe of

ua Taifali were settled, by order of the emperor

Glomus, in the country around Mutina, Regium,

is Puma (Amm. Marc, xxxi. 9. § 4)—a plain

ckauua thai the population was already deficient;

i*J St. Ambrose, writing not long after the same

<». describes Mutina, Kegium, and the other cities

•tag the Aeniilian Way, as in a state of ruin and

tait. while their territories were uncultivated and

feitt (Ambroa. Ep. 39.) The same district

•taa Eijkml severely in A.D. 452, from the ravages

afinjhvwho hud waste all the cities of Aemilia

«t «re and sword. {Hut. MltctU. xv. p. 549.)

L-v. however, survived all these calamities, from

• iii, nevertheless, Mutina appears to have suffered

rvf arrereJy than its neighbours. Under the

Ijraard line*, it became the frontier city of their

catnaines towards the Exarchate; and though taken

tr t* Greek emperor Mauricias in 590, it was

«n;3 annexed by Agilulphos to the Lombard king-

vs <i Italy. (Muratori, Antu/. Ital. vol. i. p. 63.)

t: tin period it fell into a state of great decay.

t bacomn, who mentions Bononla, Parma, and

I-.hub as wealthy and flourishing cities, does not

i the mine of Mutina (II Ut. Lang. ii. 18);

■ witer of the 10th century draws a lament-

it'' pel me of the condition to which it was re-

OtTtL The numerous streams which irrigated its

-—:tory having been then neglected, inundated the  
s; and the site of the city

in great part a mere morass, in which

: * raina that attested its ancient grandeur, were

ad boned in the mud and water. (Mural. Ant.

■i a. jfL 154, 155.)

At a later period of the middle ages, Modena

to prosperity, and became, as it has ever

a flourishing and opulent city,

f troth of the description above cited is con-

t?»d bv the fart, that the remains of the ancient

ar» ar» wholly boried under the accumulations of

uvatl aad on which the buildings of the modern

"are fcxmded, and are only brought to light from

■»t» low by excavations. (Murat. I c.) Large

i of the raius were also employed at various

struction of the cathedral and

I no remains of ancient buildings

r extant. Bat a valuable collection of sar-

and inscriptions, discovered at various

ea the site of the modern city, is preserved

e tie masetnn. These have been fully illustrated

m Cxrwiorj in his Antichi Marmi Afotlcneri (8vo.

a*ai»a», 1828). in which work the facts known

— ■ 11 n the ancient history of the city are well

■■■Eta !*fetber.

*aW-»u is situated between the river Secchia,  
>4a w icrwt aboat 3 miles to the W. of the city,

■at tav Pmmaro, about the same distance on the K.

taaer is enqoestionabry the ancient Scultkhna,

1 ■»■*• *toch it still retains in the upper part of its

"■••a- The Seeckin is probably the Gabellns of

'tay. tnt seem* to have been also known in ancient

■aaal ts the Sects; for the Jerusalem Itinerary

■Mraa a statiua called Pons Secies, 5 miles from

E i" a. wh»rt the Aeniilian Way crossed this river.

*■*• H<t. f. 616.) The Apennines begin to rise  
■>"■■ 19 nuW to the S. of the city; and the ancient

■■"■*? Vatira seems to have included a con-

. ai Pliny notices

a prodigy which occurred "in agro Mutinensi,*

when two mountains were dashed against one

another with great violence, so that they appeared

to recoil again from the shock. (Plin. ii. 83. s. 85.)

This phenomenon, which occurred in b. c. 91

was doubtless the result of an earthquake, and not;

as has been sometimes supposed, of a volcanic out­

break. [E. H. B.]

MUTUSCAE. [Tkkbula Mutusca.]

MUTYCA [Mo-mjA.]

MUZA (Mofo, Arriun; Mowra and Moufa iniro-

plov, Ptol.), an important mercantile town on the

Arabian coast of the lied Sea, not far north of the

Straits of Sab-el-Mandeb, in the country of Elisari:

placed by Ptolemy in long. 74° 30', lat. 14°; or 30'

west, and 2° north of Ocelis ("OktiAis i)uropiov)

close to the straits. (Ptol. vii. 15. p. 152.) He states

that its longest day is 12} hours, that it is 1' east of

Alexandria, and within the tropics (viii. Tab. vi. Asiae,

p. 241); Pliny (vi. 23) names Musa as the third

port of Arabia Felix "quern Indica navigatio non petit,

nec nisi turis odorumque Arabicorum mercatores."

The author of the J'eriphit frequently alludes to it,

and gives a full account of it and its trade. He de­

scribes it as situated in the southernmost gulf of this

coast, a regular mart; inhabited altogether by Arab

mariners and merchants, distant about 12,000 sta­

dia from Berenice to the south, and 300 north

of the straits. (Vincer.t, Ptriplm, p. 296. n. 100:

Gosselin, liicherches, <fc. tome ii. pp. 265, 266.)

It was not only an emporium of Indian merchan­

dise—a manifest contradiction of Pliny's state­

ment already cited—but had an export trade of its

own. It was distant three days' journey from the

city of Save (Sat!?;), which was situated inland, in

the country of Maphoritis. It had no proper harbour,

but a goal roadstead, and a sandy anchorage. Its

principal import trade was in fine and common pur*

pie cloth; Arab dresses with sleeves—probably the

kemu — some plain and common, others embroidered

with needlework and in gold; saffron; an aroma­

tic plant, named cyperus (iciJirfpoj); fine linen;

long robes—the abit»; quilts; striped girdles ; per­

fumes of a middling quality; specie in abundance;

and smnll quantities of wine and grain, for the

country grew but little wheat, and more wine. To

the king and tyrant were given horses, pack-mules ,

vessels of silver and brass, and costly raiment Be­

sides the above named articles of merchandise, which

were chiefly supplied to its markets from Adule, on

the opposite coast, the great emporium of African

produce [Adule], Musa exported a precious myrrh

cf native growth, an aromatic gum, which tli6 author

names otojtH) aSuppivma. and a white marble or

alabaster (AifySos). (Arrian, Peripl. ap. Hudson.

Ceogr. Min. vol. i. pp. 13, 14.) Vessels from this

port visited all the principal mercantile towns of the

south coast of Arabia. Bochart's identification of this

Musa with the Mesha mentioned by Moses, as one

extreme point of the Joktanite Arabs,—Sephar being

the other (Gen. x. 30),—is thought by Mr. Forstcr

to be untenable, on account of the narrow limits to

which it would confine this large and important

race; for the site of Sephar is clearly ascertained.

[Mafhoiutae; Saphokitak.] (fltogr.'of Arabia,

vol. i. pp. 93, 94.) M. Gosselin (liicbercbet, d-c.

tome ii. p. 89) .worts that this once most cele­

brated and frequented port of Yemen is now more

than six leagues from the sen, and is replaced as a port

by il/oMa,the foundation of which dates back no more

than 400 years (Niebuhr, Voyage en Arable,

