1046 SULGAS. sulmo.

pinians (Pans. x. 17. § i»; Claudian. li. 67/</.518),

and it seems to have become under that people one

of tlie most considerable cities of Sardinia, and one

ut' the chief seats uf their power in the island. Its

name was first mentioned in history during the First

Punic War, when the Carthaginian general, Hanni­

bal, having been defeated in a sea-fight by C. Sulpi-

cius, took refuge at Sulci, but was slain in a tumult

by his own soldiers (Zoniir. viii. 12). No other

mention of the name occurs in history till the Civil

War between Potnpey and Caesar, when the citizens

of Sulci received in their port the fleet of Nasidius,

the admiral of Pompey, and furnished him with

supplies; for which service they were severely pun­

ished by Caesar, on hi.s return from Africa, u. o. 46,

who imposed on the city a contribution of 100,000

sesterces, besides heavily increasing its annual tri­

bute of corn (Hirt, IS. A/r. 9S). Notwithstanding

this infliction, Sulci seems to have continued under

the Roman Empire to he one of the most flourishing

towns in the island. Strabo and Mela both mention

it as if it were the second city in Sardinia; and its

municipal rank is attested by inscriptions, as well as

by Pliny. (Strab. v. p. 225;* Mel. ii. 7. § 19: Pfin.

iii. 7. s. 13; PtoL iii. 3. § 3; Inter, sp be la Mar­

mora, vol. ii. pp. 479, 482.) The itineraries give a

line of road proceeding from Tibula direct to Sulci, a

sufficient proof of the importance of the latter place.

(/tin. Ant. pp. 83, 84.) It was also one of the four

chief episcopal sees into which Sardinia was divided,

and seems to have continued to be inhabited through

a great part of the middle ages, but ceased to exist

before the 13th century. The remains of the ancient

city are distinctly seen a little to the N. of the

modern village of A'. Antinco,on the island or peninsula

of the same name: and the works of art which have

been found there hear testimony to its flourishing

condition under the Romans. (l>e la Marmora, vol.

ii. p. 357; Smyth's Sardinia, p. 317.) The name

of Sulds is given at the present day to the whole

district of the mainland, immediately opposite to

S. AntUico, which is one of the most fertile and

best cultivated tracts in the whole of Sardinia.

The Sulcitaui of Ptolemy (iii. 3. § 6) are evi­

dently the inhabitants of this district.

The Itineraries mention a town or village of the

name of Sulci on the B. coast of Sardinia, which

must not be confounded with the more celebrated

city of the name. (/tin. Aid. p. 80.) It was pro­

bably situated at Gira»oit near Torioii. (I)e la

Marmora, p. 443.) [K. H. B.]

SULGAS, river. [GALLIA, p. 954; Yindalu m.]

SU'LIA, SULE'NA {XovKltt, 2,ou\i)va, Stmdiasm.

§§ 324, 325), a promontory of Crete, 65 stadia

from Uatala, where there was a harbour and good

water, identified by Mr. Pashley (Trarels, vol. i.

p. 304) with Udgkio O'iilcne, the chief j«ort 0f

Amdri, on the S. coast of the island. [K. li. J.]

SUMS, in Gallia! is placed in the Table on a

route from Dartoritum, which is Dariorigum [Da­

riorigum] the capital of the Veneti, to Gesocribate

the western extremity of BntagHe. The distance

from Dariorigum to Sulis is xx. By following the

direction of the rout* we come to the junction of a

small river named Svuel with the river of Blavet.

The name and distance, as D'Anville supposes, in­

dicate the position of Sulis. £<i. L.]

SULLONIACAK, a town in Britannia Komana

(/tin. Ant. p. 471), now Brovkky Hill hi Ilcvt-

fordikirc. (Camden, p. 359.) [T. H. D.]

SULMO (Sermoncia^ an ancient city of Latiutn,

mentioned only by Pliny (iii. 5. s. 9)

which were extinct in his lime, and

noticed by Virgil. (.4 en, x. 517.) It i> is iti pro­

bability the MM place with tbe modern 5

which stands on a hill between Nurha ud!

looking over the Pontine Mandies, [E. H. R]

SrLMO(2tf«\uiF: AM. SulmoDetas: >mmm

a city of the Peligni, situated in the vaiW 1

Gino, in a spacious basin formed by thejeaolaw

that river with several minor streams. Tbereisee |

doubt that it was one of the principal (Bin «f 1

Peligni, :w an independent tribe, but no atticeef i

is found in history before the Roman ensnaasf.

tradition ulhided to bv Ovid and Stliai Itaie

which ascribed its foundation to Solyuws, s I

pian and one of the companions uf A*t<aA, ise

denlly a mere etvmulogical fiction (Ow^/sati

79; Sil. ItaL ix.' 70—76.) The 6m i

Stthno OOOUTS in the Second Punic War,

territory was ravaged by Hannibal in rc. Slth

without attacking the city itself. (Ut. xxri. II

Its name is not noticed during the S<-al *ar, I

which the Peligni took so prominent a part;

cording to Floras, it suffered severely is tbe i

quent civil war belweeu Sulla and

been destroyed by the former as % \

its attachment to his rival. (FW. iii. 11)

expressions of that rhetorical writer are oot, haw

to be construed literally, and it is more prabaafc

Sulmo was confiscated and its lands asafis

StiJia to a body of hi.s soldiers. (Zun-.f<. w i

p. 261.) At all events it is certain that Solsai

a well-peopled and considerable town is a.c.4

when it whs occupied by Domitioa witb a rw

of seven cohorts; but the citizens, who wen fil

ably affected to Caesar, opened their galea I

lieutenant M. Am on i us as soon as he appeals

fore the place, (Cars. B.C. L 18; Cic el* J

viii. 4, 12 a.) Nothing more is knows!

of Sulmo, which, however, appears to I

continued to be a considerable

Ovid speaks of it as one of the three 1

towns whose districts composed tbe ternary «f t

Peligni (*• Peligni pars tertia runs " ^sasr.a. Ilf

and tins is continued both by Pliny uA the I

Coloniaruin; yet it docs not seero to bare err b

a large place, and Ovid himself desirt»<ei * • t

small provincial town, (.4mor. iii. 15.) Frea l

Liber Coloniarum we learn also that it bad r

a colony, probably n the time of Autw*» (rwj

iii. 12. s. 17; Lib. C«W pp. 229. 260); f

Pliny does not give it the title of s (

scriptions, as well as the geographers a*

aries, attest its continued existence as a i

town throughout the Roman Effipire, (!&**•* J

241; Ptol. iii. 1. §64; Tab. PevL; Oa./

3856; Mommsen, Jttscr. R.X. pp. 4*7—1

The modern city of Sulmona undoubtedly

the ancient site: it is a tolerably floeriaeiBf pa]

and an episcopal see, having succeeded u> tsst i

nity after the fall of \ ah o. which bad i

ruins of Corfiniuni. (Konianelli, vol ia.

156.)

The chief celebrity of Sulmo is derirri

having been the birthplace of Ovid, wfcsM

alludes to it as such, and celebrates its si

and the numerous streams at clear sad f

water in which its neighbourhood abosnaiad

like the whole district of the Pehgni, > 1

tremely cold in winter, whence CHnd naoMal**

Sill lis Italicus in imitation of him, cull it *

