418 KEOKTEICHOS. KEMORENSIS LACUS.

NEMORENSIS LACUS. [Aricia.1

N K M OSSl JS. [ A no uston km ktum. J

NEMl'S DIANAE. [Aricia.]

NENTIDAVA. [Dacia, Vol. I. p. 774, b.]

XEOCAESAREIA(NeoKOiffapffia: tfrt.Neoicai-

traptvs). 1. A town in Pontus Polemoniacus, which,

on account of its late origin, is not mentioned by

any writer before the time of Pliny, *as situated on

the eastern bank of the river Lycus, 63 miles to the

east of Anuria. (Plin. vi. 3; Tab. Pculing.) It

was the capital of the district, and celebrated for its

size and beauty, and is of historical importance on

account of the ecclesiastical council held there in

a. I>. 314. We possess no information about the

date of it.-* foundation; but the earliest coins we have

of it bear the image of the emperor Tiberius; whence

it is probable that Neocaesareia was founded, or at

least received that name, in the reign of Tiberius,

when Strabo. who does not notice it, had already

coin[msed his work. It must have rapidly risen in

extent and prosperity, a* in the time of Gregorius

Tliaumaturgus, who was a native of the place, it was

the most considemhle town in Pont us. (Greg.

Neocaes. Vit. p. 577; Amm. Marc, xxvii. 12;

Hierucl. p. 702; Basil, Episi. 210; Acta Eutych.

c 7; cotnp. Stepli. B. t. v.; Solin. 45; Ptol. v. 6.

§ 10.) According to Paul us Diaconus {Hist. Misc.

ii. 18), the town was once destroyed by an earth­

quake; and from Stephanus Byz. it raems that at

otic time it was called Adriauopolis. The town still

exitts under a corrupt form of its ancient name,

JVicsnr or Xicsura, at a distance of two days* journey

north ot TnkaL As to the supposed identity of

Cahira and Xeocaesareia, see Camka.

2. A town of Uithynia, of uncertain site. (Steph.

B. i.v.; Hierocl. p. 693; Concil. Const vol. iii. p.

668.) [L. S.]

NEOCLAUDI0P0LIS. [Axdrapa.]

NEOCOJIUM. [Comi'M.J

NEON (Nttbv; Etk. Nfwfio*), an ancient town

of Phot-is, said to have been built after the Trojan

war (Strab. ix. p. 439), was situated at the foot of

Mt. liih«>rea. one of the peaks of Mt. Parnassus.

Herodotus rela*es that, when the Persian army in-

vmled Phocis, many of the Phocians took refuge in

Tithorea near Neon (viii. 32), and that the latter

city was destroyed by the Persians (viii, 33). It

was, however, afterwards rebuilt; but was again de­

stroyed, with the other Phocian towns, at the end

•f the Sacred War. (Paus. x. 3. § 2.) In its

neighbourhood, Philomelua, the Phocian general, was

defeated, and periahed in the flight by throwing

himself down from a lofty rock. (Pans, x. 2. § 4.)

Neon now disappears from history, and in its place

we read of a townTlTHOHKA, which is described by

Pausantas (x. 32. § 8, seq.). This writer regards

Tithurea as situated on the same site as Neon ; and

relates that Tithurea was the name anciently applied

to the whole district, and that when the inhabitants

of the neighbouring villages were collected in the

city, the name of Tithorea was substituted for that

of Neon. This, however, is not in accordance with

the statement of Plutarch, according to whom Ti­

thorea, in the time of the Milhridalic war, was a

fortress surrounded by precipitous rocks, where the

Phocians took refuge from Xerxes. He further

states that it was not such a city as the one ex­

iting in his day. (Pint. Sull 15.) If the view of

Plutarch is correct, that the fortress, the site of

which was afterwards occupied by the city Ti­

thorea, was the place where the Phocians took re-

fuge from Xerxes, we may conclude that Tithorea

and Neon were two different places.

The city, which existed in the time of Plntsrca

and Pansanias, was a place of some imports**,

though it had begun to decline for a general** be­

fore the time of Pansanias. The latter writer mo­

tions, however, a theatre, the enclosure of an artvet

agora, a temple of Athena, and the t«*nb of Asiirpe

and Phocus. A river flowed by Tillwirra, cau>i

Cachales (Kax^Ant), to which the inhabitant* oai

to descend in order to obtain water. In the trm'.iry

of Tithorea, but at the distance of 70 stadia from the

city, was a temple of Asclcpius, and sko, at tU

distance of 40 stadia, a shrine of Iaia. (Pans. x. 32.

§§ 8—13.) The name is written Ti&ofna hi Hero­

dotus and Pansanias, TiBopala in Stephanos B,

Ttotya in Plutarch, but Ti86ppa in inwnf.u>TA

The Ethnic name in Pansanias is Tciapeevf, io Sts-

phanus TtBopaitvt. but in inscriptions Tt6opt+t.

The ruins of Tithorea are situated at 1 Vitas, a

village at the NE. foot of ML Panuusos. The ate

is fixed by an inscription found at Yetitia. in *h*t

the name of Tithorea occurs. Two-thirds of the

modern village stand within the ruined wall* of it*

ancient city. A considerable portion of the walls.

and many of the towers, still remain. The town

was carefully fortified towards the W. and NW., std

was sufficiently protected towards the NE. and i.

by the precipitous banks of the Cschsle*, and to­

wards the S. by the steep sides of alt, Psrnsaru,

The walls are almost 9 feet broad. The CacUW,

which now bears the name of Kakomamta, or the

evii torrent, flows in a ravine below the Tillage, sad

thus illustrates the statement of Psusania*. that the

inhabitants descended to it in order to obtain «at*x.

Behind VeUtza, ascending the Cachales, there is a

cavern on the steep side of the rock, which, duna£

the last war of independence, received a great number

of fugitives. It is very spacious, is supplied w:a

excellent water, and is quite tinpregnablr. This at

probably the place where the inhabitants of Xasa

and the surrounding places took refuge in the Per­

sian invasion, as the Delphians did in the Cory can

cave [see Vol. I. p. 768], more especially as ta#

height immediately above Velitxa is not adapted kt

such a purpose. A difficult mole path lewd* at

present through the ravine of the Cachales auaas

the heights of Parnassus to Delphi In the time J

Pansanias there were two roads from Tithorea arna*

the mountain to Delphi, one direct, the other longer,

but practicable for carriages. Pansanias assigns W

Madia as the length of the shorter road ; bat lbs*

number cannot be correct, as Leake observe** sits*

the direct distance is hardly less than 12 geogra­

phical miles.

Most modem writers hsve followed Psnsamas n

identifying Tithorea and Neon ; but I'lruhs, for tis*

reasons which hsve been already stated, topfc<«a

them to bare been different cities, and plsrv* N»o

at the Hellenic ruins on the Cephissua, railed /We*

Fira, distant 1$ hour, or 3\ English miles, from IV-

litxa. (Leake, A'orfAem Greece, voL iL p 77. My;

LTricha, in Hhrinisckes J/Wwst, 1843, p 544, mi )

NEONTEICHOS (Nssw rt^st). an Amu^e

town not far from the mast of Mvmta, situs!sd

between the Hermns and the town of Lsriasa, fnm

which its distance was only 30 stadia. It ■ »**] t*

hsve been foanded by the Aeobsjts.s* s temporary Ue\

•>n their first arrival in Asia. Accurding to &4r»hv

(xiii. p. 621), the place was more ancient even thss

Cyme; but according to a lUlroataf in ths Vk»

