1162 THERMOPTLAF-

THERMOPYLAE.

tnd E. again is a small stream, named Phoenix,

flowing into the Asopus. From the Phoenix to

'J'hennopylae tlie distance, Herodotus says, is 15

stadia. (Herod, vii. 198—200.) Near the united

streams of the Phoenix and the Asopus, Mt. Oeta

approached so close to the morass of the gulf as

to leave space for only ■ single carriage. In the

immediate vicinity of the pass is the town of

Anthela, celebrated for the temples of Amphictyon

and of the Ampliictyonic Demetcr, containing seats

fir the members of the Amphicytonic council, who

Held here their autumnal meetings. At Anthela

Mount Oeta recedes a little from the sea, leaving a

plain a little more than half a mile in breadth, hut

•gain contracts near Alpcni, the first town of the

Locrian.s, where the spare is again only sufficient for

a single rarrbge. At this pass were some hot

springs, which were con>eu*ated to Hercules (Stral>.

ix. p. 4*28), ami were called bj the natives Chytri

or the Pans, tin account of the cells here prepared

fur the bathers. Across this pass the Phocians had

in ancient times built a wall to defend their country

against the attacks of the Thessalians, anil had let

loose the hot water, so as to render the pass imprac­

ticable, (Herod, vii. 200, 176.) It npjjears from

this description that the proper Thermopylae wat

the narrow paM near the Locrian town of Alpcni;

but the name was also applied in general to the

whole paaaagc from the mouth of the Asopus to

Alpcni. Taking the term in this acceptation,

Thermopylae consisted of the two narrow oj*»nings,

with a plain between them rather more than a Rule

in length and about half a mile in breadth. That

portion of Mt. Oeta. which rises immediately above

Thermopylae is called Calhdromon by Livy and

Strata, but both writers are mistaken in describing

it as the highest part of the range. Livy says that

the pass is fit) stadia in breadth. (Liv. xxxvi. 15;

Strab. ix. p. 428.)

In consequence of the accumulation of soil brought

down by the Spercheius and the other rivers, three

or four miles of new land have been formed, and the

mountain forming the gates of Thermopylae is no

longer close to the sea. Moreover, the S|jercheius,

instead of Howing into the sea in an easterly direc­

tion, considerably W. of Thermopylae, now continues

its course parallel to the pass and at the distance of

a mile from it, falling into the sea lower down, to

the EL of the pass, The rivers Dyras, Melts, and

Asopu?, which formerly reached the sea by differ­

ent mouths, now discharge their waters into the

Spercheius. In addition to this there has been a

copious de|*>sit from the warm springs, and a con­

sequent formation of new soil in the pass itself.

The present condition of the pass has been described

by Colonel Leake with his usual clearness and accu­

racy. Upon entering the western opening, Leake

crossed a stream of warm mineral water, running

with great rapidity towards the Spercheius, and

leaving a great quantity of red deposit. This is

undoubtedly the Phoenix, which probably derived

its name from the colour of the sediment. After

crossing a second salt-spring, which is the source of

the Phoenix, and a stream of cold salt water, Leake

entered upon that which Herodotus calls the plain

of Anthela, which is a long triangular slope, fonned

of a hard gravelly soil, and covered with shrubs.

There is an easy descent into this plain over the

mountains, so that the western opening was of no

importance in a military point of view. Upon reach­

ing the eastern pass, situated at the end of the plain

of Anthela, the traveller reaches a vbit* cir*i>d

soil formed by the deposit of the «h*prinfi 4 iW

proper Thermopylae. There are two priacipal am

of these springs, the upper or wsten bnafiaaa-

diately at the foot of the highest part d uW dL

and the lower or eastern being SOU rsnjj dtiat.

From the lower source the water is catiwadmm

artificial < anal for a distance nf 400 yard* t» »ai

This water emits a strong sulphureous npnar.mi

as it issues from the mill, it poors eat t [as

| volume of smoke. Beyond the hill tnr emm

heights, and in their neighboured irt tw at

ponds, containing cold water; but as tab we* a

of the same composition as the ht<t sjrififACt

probably also hot at its issue. Leake cbaerwa*

the water of these pools, like that of the mMpt

hot source, is of a dark blue colour, thai ilfo&iar,

the remark of Pati.<*anias, that the Woes: wnew

ever saw was in one of ihe baths at Tntnef*e»

(Pans. iv. 35. § 9.) The springs at tiu* pat st

much hotter, and have left a far prafcr mwm,

than those at the other end of the pbc. si I»

opening which may be called the false TbenaBtjat.

Issuing from the pass are foundations of iBeteY

wall, doubtless the remains of works by »fc*a ■»

pass was at one time fortified; and to the late*

tumulus and the foundations of a cimltr asa>

meat Upwards of a mile further i* a dnr-

in which the torrents descending from Nfc-OaV

dromon, are collected into one bed, sad ■oiciiefsa1

the easiest and most direct passage to the seas*

of the mountain. This is probably the r»aaa»

path by which the Persians, under HyasraatV

scended in the rear of Leonidas and hit aaspeam

This path, as well as the mountain smahes*

leads, is called Anopaea (tj 'Arvram) by h^nVBV

who does not use the name of CalaJjasaa. m

tle.srriW's the j«a!h as Winning :it ihepr&ft*

Asopus, passing over the crest of tbe nwiti^eal

terminating near Alpeni and the rock calaitV

lainpygus, and the (teats of the Cenwps. *1

road is narrowest, (Herod, vii. 216.) 1st

of the defence of Thermopylae by Leans* ■

well known to require to be related ben. '»

of the Phocians, which Leonidas repaind. «■

bably built a little eastward of the

spring. When the Spartan kin?

dames wa? descending in his rear, be

yond the wall into the widest part af tat

resolved to sell his life as dearly as f

the arrival of Hydarnes, the Geeefc*

the wall, and took up their position

the pass {xoKetvos 4¥ rjj fitroty), whm a

lion was afterwards erected in hoouor rf"

This hill Leake identify with tbe

two small heights already described,

the position of the Phociin wall, and tat

part of the pea*. The other height

rock Melampygus.

Thennopylae is immortalised by tb» 1

fence of Leonidas ; bat it was also tst

some important struggles in later

279 an allied army of tbe Greek*

pass to oppose the Gauls under

marching into southern Greece with to*

laging the temple of Delphi. The Greeb

ground for several days against the

Gauls, till at length the Heracleota* and

conducted the invaders acmes Modal

by the same path which Hydarors had

centuries before. The Greeks, finding thar

