SICYON. SICYON. 991

inc. it. 70), and in the same Tear they repulsed

-vent of the Athenians under Demosthenes upon  
rrurritary. (Thuc. ir. 101.) In n.c. 419tliey

:rd with the Corinthians in preventing Alcibiades

n erecting a fortress upon the Achaean promon-

r of Rhium. (Thuc v. 52.) About this time

eajorratical revolution appears to have taken

», fine* we 6nd tbe Lacedaemonians establishing

i^arvhical government in Sicyon in B.C. 417.

at t. 82.) In the wars of Lacedaemon against

v!>. B.c. 394, and against Thebes, b. c. 371,

Nryonians espunsed the side of the Lacedaemo-

■. ' (Xen. lltU. iv. 2.§ 14, iv.4. § 7, seq. vi.

id.) Bat in B. c. 368 Sicyon was compelled

'pmminundas to join the Spartan alliance, and to

;l a Theban harmost and garrison into the

Itl Erjphron, a leading citizen of Sicyon,

of these circumstances, and

the Arcadians and Argives, succeeded

democracy, and shortly after-

m made himself tyrant of the city. But being

liad by tbe Arcadians and Thebans, he retired

■ harbour, which he surrendered to Sparta.

Lie assistance of the Athenians he returned

ryan; bat finding himself unable to dislodge

1 .-ban garrison from the Acropolis, he re­

s' to Thebes, in hopes of obtaining, by corrup-

aad intrigue, the banishment of his opponents

lie restoration of his own power. Here, how-

be was murdered by some of his enemies.

BtlL tu. 1—3; Diod. xv. 69, 70 ; Diet of

: art. EcTHROjf.) Sicyon seems, however, to

bsan favorable to tyrants ; for, after a short

ve anin find ths city in their power. The

7 with which ambitious citizens obtained the

Bse power was probably owing to the antago-

Wtween tbe Dorian and old Ionian inhabitants.

arjK-nea mentions two Sicyonian tyrants,

Mo* and Eptcbares, in the pay of Philip (c/e

ft. 243. 324). In the Lamian war, after the

e/ Alexander tbe Great, B.C. 323, the

una joined tbe other Greeks against the

(Diod. xviii. 11.) The city subse-

> fell into the hands of Alexander, the son of

xrenoa ; and after his murder in B. c. 314,

» Crsteaipolia continued to hold the town for

>Vr till B-C 308, when she was induced to

it to Ptolemy. (Diod. xix. 67, xx. 37.) In

03, Sicyon passed out of the hands of I'tolemy,

inrprised by Demetrius Poliorcetes in the

It appears that at this time Sicyon consisted

rt distinct parts, as already mentioned, the

4a, on tbe hill of VatiUtd, the lower city at

t, and the port-town. It is probable that

and the lower city were

with the port-town, by walls extending to the

tf tbe three quarters were now separated from

ttnsr, and there was even a vacant space

I lbs lower town and tbe citadel. Seeing the

iv of defending so extensive a space with the

Led nasuairrwa and p>pulation of the city, and

i to jaw, ore a strongly fortified place, Demetrius

sd the inhabitants to remove to the site of the

Acropolis, which Diodorus describes as " a

y preferable to thst of the former city, the

1 space being an extensive plain, surrounded

r ltd* by precipices, and so difficult of access

I not be possible to attack the walls with

This new city was called Demetrias.

I; Plat Dtmetr. 25; Pans. ii. 7.

L p. 382.) The name Demetrias

soon disappeared; but the city continued to remain

upon its lofty site, which was better adapted than

most mountain heights in Greece fur a permanent

population, since it contained a good supply of water

and cultivable land. Pausanias (£c.) represents the

lower town as the original city of Aegialeus; but

Col. Leake justly remarks, it is more natural to con­

clude that the first establishment was made upon the

hill Vatilikd, which, by its strength and its secure

distance from the sea, possesses attributes similar to

those of the other chief cities of Greece. Indeed,

Pausanias himself confirms the antiquity of the occu­

pation of the hill of Vasilihi, by describing all the

most ancient inonntnents of the Sicyonians as standing

upon it. (Leake, Morea, vol. iii. p. 367.)

After Demetrius quitted Sicyon, it again became,

subject to a succession of tyrants, who quickly dis­

placed one another. Cleon was succeeded in Lbs

tyranny by Euthvdemus and Timocleidea; but they

were expelled by the people, who placed Cleinia.-,

the father of Aratus, at the head of the government.

Cleinias was soon afterwards murdered by Abantidxs,

who seized the tyranny, B. c. 264. Abantidas wa.s

murdered in his turn, and was succeeded by his

father Paseas; but he again was murdered by

Nicocles, who had held the sovereign power only

four months, when the young Aratus surprised the

citadel of Sicyon, and delivered his native city from

the tyrant, B.C. 251. (Paus. ii. 8. §§ 1—3; Plut.

Aral. 2.) Through the influence of Aratus, Sicyuu

now joined the Achaean League, and was one of the

most important cities of the confederacy. (Paus. ii.

8. § 3; Pint Aral. 9; Polyb. ii. 43.) In conse­

quence of its being a member of the league, its ter­

ritory was devastated, both by Cleomenes, B. c. 2M.1

(Plut. Aral. 41, Cleom. 19; Polyb. ii. 52), and by

the Aetolians, B.C. 221. (Polyb. iv. 13.) In tiro

Koman wars in Greece, Sicyon was favoured by

Attalus, who tiestnwed handsome presents upon it.

(Polyb. xvii. 16; Liv. xxxii. 40.) The conquest of

Corinth by the K ana, B. c. 146, was to the ad­

vantage of Sicyon, for it obtained the greater part of

the neighbouring territory and the administration of

the Isthmian games. (Paus. ii. 2. § 2.) But even

before Corinth was rebuilt, Sicyon again declined,

and appears in an impoverished state towards the

end of the Republic. (Cic. ad Alt i. 19, 20, ii. I.)

After the restoration of Curinlh, it still further de­

clined, and its ruiu was completed by an earthquake,

which destroyed a great part of the city, so that

Pausanias found it almost depopulated (ii. 7, § 1 )•

The city, however, still continued to exist in the

sixth century of the Christian era; fur Hienx les

(p. 646, We--.) mentions New Sicyon (Nta 2i-

Kvtir) among the chief cities of Achaia. The

maritime town was probably Old Sicyon. Under

the Byzantine empire Sicyon was called Hellas, and

the inhabitants ilelladici, probably in contradis­

tinction to the surrounding Slavonic inhabitants.

(JZutvuv, fj lie 'EAAdr, Suidas; tuv Son m ■

tuv vvvl Ktyo^irwv 'EAAaotKwtv, Malala, iv. p. 68,

Bonn.) The name Vasiiilai (to. BcuriAnvd) I i.

reference to the ruins of the temples and other public

buildings.

III. Art, cfc.—Sicyon is more renowned in the

artistic than in the political history of Greece. For

a long time it was one of the chief scats of Grecian

art, and was celebrated alike for its painters and

sculptors. According to one tradition painting uas

invented at Sicyon, where Telephanea was the first

to practise the monogram, or drawing in outline

