SPARTARIGS CAMPUS. SPEOS AKTEMIDOS. 1031

■mpticfl of Heptagoniae; but it is more probable

;o2 the Heptagoniae lay further west in the direc-

i t. of MUtrd, as it was evidently the object of

-LTiainus to attack the city in different quarters.  
The small stream which encloses Sparta on the

■«lfc, mm called the Trypiotiko or river of Magula,

• pmhabry the ancient Tiasa (Tiao-a), upon which

tad the sanctuary of Phaena and Cleta, and

r-r>« which was the road to Amyclae. (Paus. iii.

K § 6.) Leake, however, gives the name of Tiasa

» the Pamleleimona, the next torrent southwards

iKac into the Eurotas.

Juth respect to the gates of Sparta, the most im-

"rtazt was the one opposite the bridge of the Eu-

*m: it was probably called the gate to Tberapne.  
rrr mentions two others, one lending to the Mes-

rjin town of Pharae, and the other to Mount Bar-

*irmea (xxxv. 30). The former must have been  
xn the western side of the city, near the village of

taenia. Of the southern gates the most im-

rait was the one leading to Amyclae.

h this article it has not been attempted to give

if account of the political history of Sparta, which

ras a prominent part of Grecian history, and

rout be narrated in this work at sufficient length

*e of any value to the student. A few remarks  
*n the subject axe given under Lacojiia.

The modern authority chiefly followed in draw-

r up the preceding account of the topography

spert* is Cartius, Fefopome$o$t Tot ii. p. 219,

Valuable information has also been derived

a Leake, MoretL, vol. i. p. 150, seq., Pelopvnne-

m p. 129. seq. See also Mure, Tour in Greece,

1 tL p, 220, seq.; Rosa, Wandentngen in Grie-

jbti, vol iL p. 11, seq.; Expetiition identifique

ifovVe, toL ii- p. 61, seq.; Boblaye, Recherches,

. p. 76, seq.; Beule*, E'tudt* sttr It Peloponese,

49. seq.

SPARTAHIUS CAMPUS (Xwaprdptov motor,

rab. iii. p. 160), a district near Carthago Nova in

*jwua Tarraconensis, 100 miles long and 30 broad,  
rb produced the peculiar kind of grass called

•fum, used for making ropes, mats, Ac. (PHo.

. * ) It is the stijxi tenacissima of Linnaeus;

i the Spaniards, by whom it is called esparto, still

ture it fur the same purposes as those de-

*rd by Pliny. It is a thin wiry rush, which is  
: 11 dried like hay, and then soaked in water

L patted. It is very strong and lasting, and the

i'arttrre still employs a large number of women

i • hildren. It was no doubt the material of which

ll**rian whips mentioned by Horace (Epixl. ir. 3)

■* composed. (See Ford, ffandb. of Spain, p.

• ) From this district Carthago Nova itself ob-

*d the surname of" Spartaria," [T. H. 1).]  
^PARTOXUS (2jrdVrwAoi, Thuc. ii. 79, v. 18;

-/j. B.)f a town of the Chalcidic peninsula,  
a-j great distance from Olynthus (Isaeus, de

wyen. Hatred, p. 55), under the walls of which

Athenian forces were routed, B. c. 249. It

. ved to the Bottiaeans, and was perhaps their

rul, and was of sufficient importance to be men-

M in tbe treaty between Sparta and Athens in

irnth year of the Peloponnesian War. [E.B.J.]

(PACTA (3woi>ra), a lake in Media Atropatene,

ch is intensely salt, so as to cause the itch on the

irs of persona who have unwittingly bathed in it,

Ii injury also to their clothes (Strab. xi. p. 523).

present name is the Sea of Urumiah. Its earliest

amian name is said to have been Kaputan, or

pufttfl Chow% whence the Greek fonn would seem

to have been modified. (L. Ingigi, Archaeoh Ar~

men. i. p. 160; St. Martin, Mcnurires, i. p, 59.) It is

probably the same as the MopriofT/ Auu tj of Ptolemy

(vi. 2. § 17). Many travellers have visited it in

modern times, (Tavernier, i. ch. 4; Morier, Sec.

Voy. ii. p. 179.) [V.]

SPELAEUM, a place in Macedonia which lory

says was near Pella (xlv. 33).

SPELUNCA (Spcrfonf/a), a place on the coast of

Latium (in the more extended sense of that name),

situated between Tarracina and Caieta. The em­

peror Tiberias had a villa there, which deri%'ed its

name from a natural cave or grotto, in which the

emperor used to dine, and where he on one occasion

very nearly lost his life, by the falling in of the roof

of the cavern (Tac. Arm. iv. 59; Suet. Tib. 39)

The villa is not again mentioned, but it would appear

that a village had grown up around it, as Pliny

mentions it in describing the coast ("locus, 8pe-

luncae," Plin. iii. 5. s. 9), and its memory is still

preserved by a village nanwd Sperlonga, on a rocky

point about 8 miles \V. of Gaita. Some Roman

remains are still visible there, and the cave belonging

to the I . ial villa may be identified by sonit*

remains of architectural decoration still attache-1

to it (Craven's Abruzzi, vol. i. p. 73). [E. H. B.]

SPEOS ARTE'MIDOS, the present grottoes of

Beni-hassan, was situated N. of Antinoe, in Middle

Aegypt, on the eastern bank of the Nile, in lat. 27°

40' N. The name is variously written: Peos in the

Itinerary of Antoninus (p. 167, Wtaaeung); Pois in

the Notitia Imperii; but Speos is probably the fern*

fonn, implying an excavation (ffw«'uj) in the rocks,

Speos Artemidos was rediscovered by the Frencli

and Tuscan expedition into Aegypt early in the

present century. It was constructed by some of

the Pharaohs of the 18th dynasty in a desert-valley

running into the chain of Arabian hills. The structure

as a whole consists of a temple, and of between thirty

and forty catacombs. The temple is dedicated t<>

Pasht, Bubastis, the Artemis of the Greeks. (Herod

ii. 58.) The catacombs appear to have served a*

the general necropolis of the Hermopolite noma, For

although Hermopolis and its district lay on the

western bank of the Nile, yet as the eastern hills «t

this spot approach very closely to the stream, while

the western hills recede from it, it was more con­

venient to ferry the dead over the river than to

transport them across the sands. Some of these

catacombs were appropriated to the mummies of

animals, cats especially, which were worshipped by

the Hermopolitans. In the general cemetery two of

these catacombs merit particular attention: (1)

the tomb of Neoopth, a military chief in the reign

of Sesortasen I. and of his wife Rotei; (2) that «■;

Amenheme, of nearly the same age, and of very

similar construction. The tomb of Neoopth, or, as it,

is more usually denominated, of Rotei, has in front

an architrave excavated from the rock, and sup­

ported by two columns, each 23 feet high, with six­

teen fluted facelets. The columns have neither bas<-

nor capital; but between the architrave and tin-

head of the column a square abacus is inserted. A

denteled cornice runs over the architrave. The

effect of the structure, although it is hardly de­

tached from the rock, is light and graceful. The

chamber or crypt is 30 feet square, and its roof is

divided into three vaults by two architraves, each of

which was originally supported by a single column,

now vanished. The walls are painted in com­

partments of the most brilliant colours, and the

3 u 4

