MAREOTIS. 273- MARGANA-.

merit of keeping well to a great age; and Horace {(hi.

i. 37) mentions it aa a favourite beverage of Cleopatra.

Mania, from its neighbourhood to Alexandreia, was

so generally known to Roman travellers, that among

toe latin poets, the words Mareia and Mareotic be­

came synonymous with Aegypt and Aegyptian.

Thus Martial (Ep. xiv. 209) calls the papyrus,

"cortex Marcotica" (comp.id. i-p.iv. 42): and Gra-

tius (Cyntgttic. v. 313) designates Aegyptian luxury

as Mareotic: and Ovid {Met. ix. v. 73) employs

"srra Mareotica" for Lower Aegypt. [W. B. D.]

MAREOTIS or MAREl'A (i Mop&rts or Maptia

Xiujh}, Strab. xvii. pp. 789 — 799; Maptia, Steph.

B. #. r.; Mareotis Libya, Plin. v. 10. s. 11; Justin,

ii \\ the modern Bir/xt-d-Marioiit^aa a con­

siderable lake in the north of the Delta, extending

south-westward of the Cauopic arm of the Kile, and

running parallel to the Mediterranean, from which it

was separated by a long and narrow ridge of sand, as

fir as the tower of Perseus on the Plinthinetic bay.

The extreme western point of the lake was about

26 miles distant from Alexandria; and on that side

it closely bordered upon the Libyan desert At its

Durtbern extremity its waters at one time washed the

waiU of Alexandreia on their southern side, and be­

fore the foundation of that city Mareutis was termed

ike Lake above Pharus. In breadth it was rather

more than 150 stadia, or about 22 English miles,

and in length nearly 300 stadia, or about 42 English

miles. One canal connected the lake with the Ca-

Lipic arm of the Kile, and another with the old

harbour of Alexandreia, the PortusEunostus. [Alex-

asdreia.] The shores of the Mareotis were planted

with olives and vineyards ; the papyrus which lined

ii» banks and those of the eight islets which studded

tfa waters was celebrated for its fine quality; and

around its margin stood the country-houses and

gardens of the opulent Alexandrian merchants. Its

creeks and quays were filled with Nile boats, and its

export and import trade in the age of Strabo sur­

passed that of the most flourishing havens of Italy.

Under the later Caesars, and after Alexandreia was

occupied by the Arabs, the canals which fed the

lake were neglected, and its depth and compass were

materially reduced. In the 16th century a. i>. its

*afcr» had retired about 2 miles from the city walls;  
yet it still presented an ample sheet of water, and

its banks were adorned with thriving date-plantations.

Th* Ulce. however, continued to recede and to grow

fiullawer; and, according to the French traveller

feaiary, who visited this district in 1777, its bed was

tW for the most part, a sandy waste. In 1801

the EnglUh army in Aegypt, in order to annoy the

Frvnch garrison in Alexandria, bored the narrow

ttihmm which separates the Birket-eUMariout from

tl* Lake of Madtih or A Ixwkir, and rc-adinitted

the wa-wait-r. About 450 square miles were thus

ftmerted into a salt-marsh. But subsequently

U+hemet Ali repaired the isthmus, and again diverted

tfw sea from the lake. It is now of very unequal

**Ifth. At its northern end, near Alexandreia, it is  
ab«it 14 feet deep, at its opposite extremity not

owe than 3 or 4. Westward it forms a long and

&b!la« lagoon, separated from the sea by a bar of

*wj, and running towards Libya nearly as far as  
tj* Twer of the Arabs. The lands surrounding

the accent Mareotis were designated as the Mareotic

X«e(ICap««T?)j SSuos, Ptol. iv. 5. §§ 8, 34); but

*&» vu probably not one of the established Nuines  
<* Paranoic Aegypt, [W. B. D.]

MAKES (Map«»),a tribe on the coast of Pontus,

Vol ii.

in the neighbourhood of the Mosynoeci. (Uecat.

Fragm. 192; Herod, iii. 94.) Their armour, when

serving in tie army of Xerxes, is described by

Herodotus (vu. 79) as having consisted of helmets

of wicker-work, leather shields, and javelins. Later

writers do not mention this tribe. [L. S.]

MARESHAH (Mapnao, LXX., Euseb.; Mapiaaa,

Joseph.), a city of Judah, ''in the valley," enumerated

with Keilah and Achzib in Joshua (xv. 44). In

Micah (i. 15), where it is again joined with Achzib,

the LXX. have substituted Aa\u'y. Lachish, how­

ever, is found in the list of Joshua, independent of

Maresha (xv. 39), so it could not be a synonym fur

Mareshah. It was one of the cities fortified by

Kchoboam against the Philistines and Egyptians

(2 Chrun. xi. 8); and there it was that Asa encoun­

tered Zerah the Ethiopian, "in the valley of Zepha-

thah at Mareshah" (xiv. 9), and gained a signal

victory over him. In the time of Judas Maccabaeus

it was occupied by the Idumaeans (2 Maccab. xii.

35), but Judas took and destroyed it. (Joseph. Ant.

xii. 8. § 6.) Only a few years later it is again

reckoned to Idumaea; and Hyrcanus I. took it, and

compelled its inhabitants, In common with the other

Idumaeans, to practice circumcision, and conform

to the law, as a condition of remaining in that

country (xiii. 9. § 1, 15. § 4). It was one of the

cities restored to Arctas king of Arabia by Hyrcanus

II., as the price of his services (xiv. 1. § 4): soon after

which it was rebuilt by Gabinius (5. § 3); shortly

after sacked and destroyed by the Parthian-* in their

invasion of the country, in the time of Herod the

Great (xiv. 13. § 9); and probably never recovered

its former importance, as this is the latest historical

notice. It is placed by Kusebius and St. Jerome

2 miles from Kleutheropolis; it was then a ruin.

Dr. Robinson conjectures that "Eleutheropolis (at

first Betogabra) had sprung up after the destruction

of Maresha, and had been built with its materials,"

and that "the foundations which he discovered on

the south-eastern part of the remarkable tell, south

of the place, were remains of Maresha. The spot is

admirably adapted for a fortress; it lies about a

Roman mile and a half from the ruins of Beit

Jeljriii.'n There are no oilier ruins in the vicinity.

{Bib. Res. vol. ii. pp. 422, 423.) [G. W.]

MAREU'RA or MALTHU'BA {Mapioupa **»j-

rpoVoAiS i) Kal MaAOuvpa KaXuvfiitnj, Ptol. vu. 2.

§ 24), a place of some importance in the upper

part of the Aurea Chersonesus in India extra

Gangem. It is not possible now to identify it with

any existing place. [V.]

MATM3ANA or MA'KGALAE (Mdpyava, Diod.;

Mapyavcls, Xeu.; MapyaXai, Strab.; Mdpyaia,

Steph. B. s. r.), a town in the Pisatis, in the dis­

trict Amphiilolia, was supposed by some to be the

Homeric Aepy. (Strab. viii. p. 349.) The Eleians

were obliged to renounce their supremacy over it

by the treaty which they made with Sparta in u. c.

400 (Xen. Hell. iii. 2. § 30), on which occasion

it is called one of the Triphylian towns: as to

this statement, see Lkthini. It is mentioned as

one of the towns taken by the Arcadians in their

war with the Eleians in B. c. 366. (Xen. Iltll. vii.

4. § 14; Diod. xv. 77.) Its site is uncertain, but

it was probably east of Letrini. Leake places it too

far north, at the junction of the Ladon and the

Penclus, which is in all probability the site of the

Eleian Pylos. (Leake, Vdoponnesinca, p. 219;

Boblaye, Recherches,$c. p. 130; Curtius, PcIj/>uh-

nc-sos, vol. i. p. 73.)

