STRIA. SYRIA. 1077

r werfal in the time of Saul and David was ZoKili,

i ipprars from the number of men which that

t>( If brought into the field against David ( lb. viii.

). «nd from the rich booty of which they were

**Jed by the Israelites (/6. v. 7). Even after sus-  
ir.mt; a signal defeat, they were able in a little time

uke the field again with a considerable force (fb.

r>). David nevertheless subdued all Syria, which,

«**rer, recovend its independence after the death

N>l<«non, B.c. 975. From this period Damascus,

r history of which iias been already given [Da-

1-4 is. Vol. I. p. 748], became the most consider-

.« U the Syrian kingdoms. Syria was conquered

I ijbth-IMescr, king of Assyria, about the year

7 it c, and was annexed to that kingdom. Hence

•LHTev-ively furmed part of the llaby Ionian and

run empires; but its history presents nothing

rjirkable down to the time of its conquest hy

■-under the Great. After the death of that con-

'fi< m b.c 323, Syria and Mesopotamia fell to

• -hare of his general Seleucus Nicator. The so~

vigiit/ of SeJeucns, however, was disputed by

lijonax, and was not established till after the

Ik of Ipaua, in 301 b.c, wlien he founded An-

ii on I he Orontea, as the new capital of his king-

n- [AicTiocfiElA, Vol. I. p. 142.] From this

i^i the descendants of Scleucua, known by the

•eihUMO of Seleucidae, occupied the throne of

down to the year 65 b.c. when Antiochus

II. Akiaricus was dethroned by Pompoy, and Syria

j.-;a Roman province. (Plut. Pump. 39; Ap-

d. .Syr. 46; Eutrop. vi. 14.) Into the history of

4 iiDtier the Seleucidae it is unnecessary to

rr, hi ice a table of that dynasty is given in the

i-'«wrry of liutgraphy [Vol. III. p. 769], and the

t vents wiit be found described in the lives of

r»~-ive monarcbs.

[ he tract of which Pompey took possession under

i«rr« of Syria comprised the whole country from

pill' of Issus and the Euphrates to Egypt and

.tcsertw of Arabia. (Appiun, Syr. 50, Mith.

u) The proriiic*, however, did not at first

fre!i«ni tlx! whole of this tract, but consisted

Wy of av strip of land along the sea-coast, which,

i the- jrulf of Issua to lMiuascus, was of slender

but which to the S. of that city spread

'"-it av* far as the town of Canatha. The rest

j-irrelled out in such a manner that put coii-

•i of tl*** territories of a great number of free

*i*J |*art was assigned to various petty princes,  
we absolute dependence upon Rome led to their

iawa* bring gradually incorporated into tho pro-

( Appian, Syr. 50.) The extent of the pro-

t vu> thn.s continually increased during the

. mturv of the Empire; and in the time of Ha-

■> havl become so large, that a partition of it

<!eemexi advisable. Commagene, the most

hero of the ten districts into which, according to

nor fr. 15), the upper or northern Syria was

'-+•■1. had become an independent kingdom before

t.^*# of Foriipey's conquest, and therefore did not

i part of the province established by him. [Com-

Vol. I. p. 651.] The extent of this pro-

- may be determined by tho free cities into  
ji ^ wavi divided by Pompey; the names of

fc known jsirtly from their being mentioned

-»phtu» {A»i. xiv. 4. § 4). and partly from the  
wturli they used, namely that of n.c C3, the

i.. which they received their freedom. In this

»- are enabled to enumerate the following cities

p* original province of Syria: Antiocheiu, 5c-

leuceia in Pieria, Epiphancia, between Arelliusa and

Einesa, Apatneia; nearly all the towns nf the Deca-

polis, as Abila (near Gadara), Anti'icheia ad Hip-

pum or Hippos, Canatha, Dium, Gadara, iVlhi, ;tnd

Philadelphia; in Phoenicia, Tripoli*, Sidun, Tyrua,

Dora; in the north of Palestine, Scythopolis and

Samaria ; on the coast, Turns Stratonis (Caesareia),

Joppe, Iamncia, Ascot us, Gaza; and in the south,

Marissa. The gift of freedom to so many cities is

not to be attributed to the generosity of the Romans,

but must be regarded as a necessary measure of

policy. All these towns had their own jurisdiction,

and administered their own revenues; but they were

tributary to tho Romans, and their taxes were levied

according to the Roman system established on the

organisation of the province. ("Syria turn primtun

facta est stipendiaria," Veil. Pat. ii. 37.) Tho first

governors of Syria, and especially Gabinins, who was

proconsul in the year 57 B.C., took much pains in

restoring the cities which had been destroyed.

(Joseph. Ant. xiv. 5, § 3.) The divisions esta­

blished in Judaea by Gabinius have been noticed in

another article. [Palakstina, Vol. II. p. 532.]

Caesar, during his expedition against Pharnaces,

B.C. 47, confirmed these cities in their rights, and

likewise extended them to others, as Gabala, Lao

diceia ad Marc, and Ptolemais. (Eckhel, vol. hi.

p. 314, sq.; Norisius, Ep. Syrom, pp. 175—213,

450.) Of tho regulations adopted in Syria during

the reign of Augustus we have little information.

The same political reasons which dictated the es­

tablishment of these free cities, where it was possible

to do so, rendered the continuance of dynastic

governments necessary in the eastern and southern

districts of the province, where either the nomadic

character of the population, or its obstinate adherence

to ancient institutions was adverse to the introduc­

tion of new and regular forms of government.

These dynasties, however, like the free cities, were

used as the responsible organs of the Roman ad­

ministration, and were tributaries of Rome. Thus,

in the histories of Commagene and .Judaea, we find

instances in which their sovereigns were cited to ap­

pear at Rome, were tried, condemned, and punished.

The Roman idea of a province is essentially a finan­

cial one. A province was considered as a " praedium

pnunli Romani" (Cic. Verr. ii. 3); and hence the

d} nasties of Syria may be considered as belonging to

the province just as much as the free towns, since,

like them, they were merely instruments for tho

collection of revenue. (Cf. Huschke, Crber dm znr

Ztii der Gtbnrt Jesu Christi gthnltenen Cm*us,

pp. 100—112.) Thus we find these petty sovereigns

in other parts of the world regarding themselves

merely as the agent*, or procurators, of the Roman

i#oplc (Sail. Jug. 14; Maffei, Mtu. Ver. p. 234);

nor were they allowed to subsist longer than was

necessary to prepare their subjects for incorporation

with the province of which they were merely ad­

juncts.

The Syrian dynasties were as follows: I. Chnlcis

nd Return. 2. The dynasty of Arethnsa and Emesa.

3. Abila. 4. Damascus. 5. Judaea. 6. Palmyra.

These states have boon treated of under their re­

spective names, and we shall here only add a few

particulars that may serve further to illustrate the

history of some of them during the time that they

were under the Roman sway. All that is essential

to be known respecting the iirst three dynasties has

already been recorded. With regard to Damascus,

! it may be added that M. Aemilius Saurus, the first

3 z 3

