PLACIA. PLATAEA. 637

iricT.Ml Pliorinii Tacitus giving it that title

(IV Ells. JO; Tac. But. ii. 19): it had pro-

WN* rMind i fresh colony under Augustus. We

■n fan Tacitus (!■ c.) that it was one of the

v* Wishing and pr*pulous cities of the district

I Cdh Cicpsdins; and though of no natural

Si\ts. tmz limited in an open plain, it was well

r.M. fx this reason it was occupied in A. r>.

• l» fcminri, one of the generals of Otho, and

sWijr otfrnded by him against Caecina, the

anl rf Vrttllitu, aho had crossed the Padus, and

it to Plscmtia, but was compelled to abandon

saf titUnnr to Cremona. (Tac. Bitt ii. 17 —

Q Mag the assaults of Caecina, the amphi-

■H <Urh is said to have been the largest pro-

aVJeiiiee nf the kind in Italy, and was situated

r* the walls, was accidentally burnt, (/ft.

) Fran tail time we meet with no further

tVa rf Pbcrntia in history till the reign of An-

■. "bra that emprror sustained a great defeat

s it- Mtrrarnanni, under its walls. (Vopisc.

•f il) Hot the city still continued to be one

h> »tt considerable places on the line of the

iftax; snd though it is noticed by St. Am-

(l«uus the cloeeof the fourth century, as

l^a tat desolation that had then befallen the

t <f taw once flourishing province (Ambros.

9\ a surrivfd all the ravages of the barba.

i; ial fTm liter the fall of the Western Em-

■••ail ammparatiTely flourishing town. It

fcttiat Orestes, the father of the unhappy

■sin. wis pot to death by OJoacer, in A. v.

(P. Due But. MitaU. xvi. p. 558.) Prc-

• sntifini it during the Gothic wars as a

f irtrpM uid the chief city of the province of

la h vat only taken by Totila, in A. D.

► amine. (Procop. B. G. iii. 13, 17.) Con-

sty U^r it U still noticed by P. Macnnus

''opulent cities" of Aemilia (But. ljnntj.

•? s paiiMa which it preserved throughout the

I ajo. At the present day it is still a flou-

I ri papulous place, with about 30,000 in-

lax t!>w;b partially eclipsed by the superior

■at* i, which Parma, has attained since it

• tt< capital of the reigning dukes. There

I annas uf antiquity.

*a«u vis undoubtedly indebted for its pros-  
'tai rapartance in ancient tiroes, as well as

'*>»2* irr*. to its advantageous situation for

■Vk:*t of the Po. Strabo (v. p. 215) speaks

^"ifcitici from thence to Ravenna, as if the

fcagu to be navigable from Placentia

; hot this is not quite correct. The city

a i Jw. distance from the river; but it

or port on the stream itsrlf, pro-

ri c.iiflaenc* with the) Trebia, which was

• eaairrxbh town. This w:is taken and

WW Hinnihal in sc. 218. (Lir. xxi.

mhit ii. 19.)

tbret. a!rwdy mentioned that the Via

as arigiaaDy constructed, led from Ari-

• » PUfentia/a distance of 178 miles. It

^•varts continued from the latter city to

■A fraa wbrcc* ■ branch proceeded across the

u> Gem (Strab. v. p. 17); while another

tvned from Placentia across the Padus

■ distance of 40 miles; and

with the whole of Gallia Trans-

_ (/ak AtL pp. 98, 127. 288; /tin Bier.

Ir-i/Vs*.)" [K. H.B.J

ICU(naaxra: Etk. nArurnu-cit), an ancient

Pelasginn town in Mysia Olympene, at the foot of

Mount Olympns, and on the east of Cyzicus. The

place seems to have decayed or to have been de­

stroyed at an early time, as it is not mentioned by

later writers. (Herod, i. 57; Scylax, p. 35; Dionys.

Hal. i. p 23: Steph. B. i. v. nAd<r».) [L. S.]

PLACUS (iTAaicoi). a woody mountain of Mysia.

at the foot of which Thebe is said to have been

situated in the Iliad (vi. 397, 425, xxii.479); but

Strabo (xiii. p. 614) was unable to learn anything

about snch a mountain in that neighbourhood. [See

Pelecasl] [L. S.]

PLAGIAHIA. [Li-sitania.]

PLANA'RIA INS. [Forti'Natae Insui-ae.]

PLANA'SIA. [Lf.rina; Lkkon.]

PLANA'SIA (riAofao-ia: Nanoiii), a small is­

land in the Tyrrhenian sea, about 10 miles SW. of

llva (Elba), and nearly 40 from the nearest point

on the coast of Etruria. It is about 3 miles Ion?

by 2} in width, and is low and flat, from whence

probably it derived its nnme. (Plin. iii. 6. s. 12;

Ptol. iii. 1. § 79; J tin. Marit. p. 513.) The Mari­

time Itinerary reckons it 90 stadia from Uva, while

Pliny calls the same distance 38 miles; but this is

evidently a mistake for its distance from the main­

land. It is remarkable that Pliny mentions Pla-

naria and Planasia as if they were two distinct

islands, enumerating the one before and the other

after Ilvu; but it is certain that the two names are

only forms of the same, and both refer to the same

island. (Cluvcr. ltal. p. 504; Harduin. Not. ad

I'tin. I. c.) In VaiTo's time it seems to have be­

longed to M. Piso, who kept large flocks of peacocks

there in a wild state. (Varr. R. R. iii. 6.) It was

subsequently used as a place of banishment, and

among others it was there that Postumus Agrippa,

the grandson of Augustus, spent the last years of

his life in exile. (Tac. Ann. i. 3, 5; Dion Cuss. lv.

32; Suet. Avg. 65.) Some ruins of Roman build­

ings still remain in the island: and its quarries of

granite seem to have been certainly worked in an­

cient times. It is now inhabited only bv a few fisher­

men. [E. H. B.]

PLANE'SIA (X\\a>n\ata, Strab. iii. p. 159), an

island in the Sinus Illicitanus, on the SE. coast of

Hispania Tarraconensis, now hoia Pluna. [T.H.D.]

PLATAEA. [Platea.]

PLATAEA or PLATAEAE (nAdraia, Horn.

Herod.; nAaraiai, Thuc. Strab. l'aus, Ac.: Eth.

nAarauvs, Plataeensis), an ancient city of Boeotia,

was situated upon the frontiers of Attica at the foot of

ML Cithaeron, and between that mountain and the

river Asopus, which divided its territory from that of

Thebes. (Strab. ix. p.411.) The two cities were about

6.) miles apart by the road, but the direct distance

was little more than 5 geographical mites. According

to the Thebans Plataea was founded by them (Thuc.

iii. 61); but Pausanias represents the Plataeans as

indigenous, and according to their own account they

derived their name from Plataea, a daughter of Aso­

pus. (Pans. ix. 1. § 1.) Plataea is mentioned in Ho­

mer among the other Boeotian cities. (//. ii. 504.) In

n. c. 519 Plataea, unwilling to submit to the supre­

macy of Thebes, and unable to resist her powerful

neighbour with her own unaided resources, formed a

close alliance with Athens, to which she continued

faithful during the whole of her subsequent history.

(Herod, vi. 108; Thuc. iii. 68.) She sent 1000

men to the assistance of Athens at Marathon, and

shared in the glories of that victory. (Herod. I. c.)

The Plataeans also fought at Arteniisium, but were

