SIDE. . SIDICINI. 995

JS2; Coxa. Const, ii. p. 240.) The cliicf di-

117 of this city was Athena, who is therefore seen

fronted on its coins, holding a pomegranate

J() in her liand. (Sestini, Num. Vet. p. 392,

Lj comp. Xenopb. Anab. i. 2. § 12; Cicero, ad

m.m.t; Allien, viii. p. 350; Paus. viii. 28. § 2;

si t. 5. § 2, viii. 17. § 31.) The exact site of

cnt >i<ie, which is now called Esky Adatia, as

1»its remains, have been described by modern

'dim. Beaufort (Karamania, p. 146, foil), who

nio excellent plan of the present condition of

puce, states that the city stood on a low penin-

i, sad wsj surrounded by walls; the part facing

hed was of excellent workmanship, and much

is U still perfect. There were four gates, one

s the country and three from the sea. The

A, 180 feet in diameter, was surrounded by a

Ut nm of columns. One side of the square is

snxat occupied by the ruins of a temple and

:*u The theatre appears like a lofty acropolis

X fnm the centre of the town, and is by far the

• : sod best preserved of any seen in Asia

sr. The harbour consisted of two small moles,

•tie! with the quay and principal sea gate. At

fitmnity of the peninsula were two artificial

■an for larger vessels. Both are now almost

I whs sand and stones, which have been borne

} lbs swell The earliest coins of Side are ex-

•> ancient; the inscriptions are in very barba-

ekincters, resembling the Phoenician, and the

Til coins exhibit the proud titles of AosuwporciTn

Wjfar. (Eckhel, vol. iii. pp. 44, 161; Span-

■ Cm et Praest. Num. p. 879; Fellows, Asia

», p. SOI; Leake, Asia Minor, p. 195, foil.)

sfntiog Side, the ancient name of Polemonium,

'nUMuSHTH. [L. S.]

I'E (Zlcsj), a town on the eastern coast of

■a, a little N. of the promontory Malea. It

said to have existed before the Dorian con-

L. sad to have derived its name from a daughter

■a The inhabitants were removed by the

b ocqaerors to the neighbouring town of

- It probably occupied the site of the monas-  
i SL George, where there is a port (Scylax,

; Pus. iu. 22. § 11; Boblaye, Recherche*,

Curtina, Pelopounesos, vol. ii. p. 297.)

H'XE (ioVn). 1. A town of Mysis, on

nrr Granicut, which was destroyed by Croesus,

■as never rebuilt, in consequence of a curse

swd m the site by the destroyer. (Slrab. xiii.

i7.601.)

A town in Lycia. mentioned only by Ste-

• B. (a. r.) on the authority of the Lydiaca of

A district on the coast of Pontus, about the

>«f Ike river Sidenus, which derived its name

*• towa of Side, afterwards called Polemonium.  
xaltr put of the district was formed by the

»«f the river (Stnsb. L p. 52, ii. p. 126, xit

3. 548, 556; Plin. wi. 4.) [L. S.]

't SI (ZiSwroi), • people of Arabia Felix,

t' I'toleroy between the Thamyditae on the

sod the Darrae on the south, on the Elanitic

»■ *. | 4). Mr. Forster identifies them with

">wjw« tribe of Burckhardt, in the north of the

:. extending along the coast from Jebel

sj (otriainly identical with the Hippos Mons

• oeuiag Horse-mountain — of Ptolemy), to

i * AU the circumstances, of name, locality,

•il-tnarhood," he asys, " concur to prove their

f.' (ArMa, voLL p. 126.) |G. W.]

SIDE'NI (StSfis-oi, Xttiivol, ZtSnrof), a German

tribe on the coast of the Baltic, between the mouth

of the river Suebus and that of the Viadus. (l'lol ii.

11. § 14.) It is possible that Sibini (XSirot) is

only a corrupt form of the name of this same tribe,

(Zcuss, Die Deutschen, p. 154.) [L. S.]

SIDE'NUS, a small river of Pontus, having its

sources in Mount Paryadres, and flowing through

the district of Sidene into the Euxine; at its mouth

was the town of Side or Polemonium (Plin. vi. 4),

from which the river is now called Poulenian Choi.

(Comp. Hamilton, Researches, i. p. 270.) [L. S.]

SIDEUIS, a river of Hyrcauia, mentioned by

Pliny (vi. 16. s. 18), which flowed into the Caspian

sea. it cannot be now determined to which river

he refers, but be states from it the Caspian sea was

called the Hyrcanian.

SIDE'BL'S (SiSnooCi). according to Scylax (p. 39)

a promontory and a port-town on the coast of I.ycia.

The same place seems to be meant in Steplianus B.

(j. v. Zioopouf), when he calls Sidarus a town and

haibour. Col. Leake {Asia Minor, p. 189) has

shown that the town of Siderus is in all proba­

bility no other than Olympus, on the south of Pha-

selis. [L.S.]

SIDICI'NI (SiSuai-ot), a people of Central Italy

bordering on the Samnites and Campanians. In the

time of the geographers they had disappeared as a

people, or become absorbed into the general appel­

lation of Campanians (Strab. v. p. 237), but at an

earlier period they appear as a wholly independent

people. Their chief city was Teanmn, on the K.

slope of the volcanic mountain group of Rvcca

Munjina: but they had at one time extended their

power considerably further to the N. and up the

valley of the Liris, as the territory of Fregeliae is

said to have been subject to them, before tliey were

dispossessed of it by the VoLscians (Liv. viii. 22).

It is clear however that this extension of their limits

was of short duration, or at all events had ceased

before they first appear in history. Strabo tells us

expressly that they were an Oscan tribe (/. c), and

this is confirmed by the coins of Teanum still extant,

which have Oscan inscriptions. They were there­

fore closely allied to the neighbouring tribes of tho

Campanians on the S. and the Aurunci and Aiisunes

on the W. Hence Virgil associates the inhabitants

of the Sidiciuian plains ('' Sidieina aequora,'' Aen. vii.

727) with the Aunincans and the inhabitants of

Cales. The last city is assigned by Silius Italicus

to the Sidicini, but this is opposed to ail other

authorities (Sil. Ital. viii. 511). The name of

the Sidicini is first mentioned in history in K. c 343,

when they were attacked by the Samnites, who had

been long pressing upon their neighbours the Vol-

scians. Unable to contend with these formidable

assailants, the Sidicini had recourse to the Cam­

panians, who sent an army to their assistance, but

were easily defeated (Liv. vii. 29, 30), and being

in their turn threatened by the whole power of the

Samnites, invoked the assistance of Home. During

the war which followed (the First Samnite War), we

lose sight altogether of the Sidicini, but by the treaty

which put an end to it (in B. c. 341) it was par­

ticularly stipulated that the Samnites should be at

liberty to pursue their ambitious designs against thut

people (Id. viii. I, 2). Thus abandoned by the

K i .his to their fate the Sidicini had recourse to the

Latins (who were now openly shaking off their

connection with Rome) and the Campanians; and

the Samnites were a second time drawn oft* from

3 s 2

