MEGALOPOLIS. 309 MEGALOPOLIS.

only the cohimu remained in the time of Pausanias.

-'-.■:*

AGORA OF MEGALOPOLIS.

A. Sanctwirjr of Zeus.

B. Statu* <>f Apollo.

<". Temple of the Mother of the Godi.

T). Slo* of Philip.

E. Temple of Hermes.

F. Sin* of the Archives.

G. Sc>M of Mytopolis.

H. Statue of Poltbills.

L Stoa of Ari*tander.

L. Temple of Zei^s Soter.

M. S«re*1 I ni losurc of the Great Goddesses.

N. Grnuutlura.

On the northern side of the Agora lay the Stoa of

Philip, the son of Amyntas, which was named

in honour of this king, on account of the services

be had rendered to Megalopolis. Near it were

the remains of the temple of Hermes Acaeesius.

Alongside of the Stoa of Philip, was another smaller

S: a. containing the Archives (ra opx*«0i an<*

consisting of six compartments. Behind the Stoa

of the Archives was a temple of Tyche (Fortune).

The Stoa called Myropolis, where the shops of the

perfumers stood, was probably on the eastern side of

the Agora. It was built from the spoils of the La­

cedaemonians under Acrotatus, when they were de­

feated by Aristodemus. Between itandtiie sanctuary

of Zeus was the statue of Polybius. To the left of

this statue was the Bouleuterium, or Senate House.

Id the south of the Agora may be placed the Stoa

of Aristander, named after its founder. At the

eastern end of this Stoa, wad a Peripteral Temple of

Zeaa Soter, containing a statue of the god seated

between the goddesses Megalopolis and Artemis So-

leira. At the other, or western end of the same

Stoa, was the sacred inclosure of the Great God­

desses Demeter and Core (Persephone), containing

several temples. The Gymnasium stood on the

western side of the Agora.

To the north of the Agora, behind the Stoa of

Philip, there were two .small heights, on one of

which stood the ruins of the temple of Athena Po­

los, and on the other those of Hera Teleia, The

foundations of these temples are still visible. At

the f»)t of the temple of Hera Teleia was the stream

Btihyllus, flowing into the Helisson. Parallel to

the Bathyllus is another stream; and the hill be­

tween these two streams is, perhaps, the Sculeitas

RKntioned by Pausanias (viii. 31. § 7), who says

that it lies within the walls, and that a stream de­

scends from it to the Helisson.

Same excavations were made on the site of Mega-

lopJ'is by Boss in 1834, but nothing of importance

was found.

Pausanias also gives a minute account of the prin­

cipal n«ds leading from Megalopolis. Of these he

mtati'joa eight, leading respectively to Messene, Car-

nasium, Sparta, Methydrium, Maenalus, Pbigaleia,

Tegea and Heraea.

1. The road to Messene passed, at the distance of

7 stadia from the city, a temple of the goddesses

called Maniae, a name of the Eumenides, because

Orestes here became insane on account of the murder

of his mother. A little further was a small heap of

earth, called the Monument of the Finger, because

Orestes, in his madness, here bit off one of his fingers;

still further was a place called Ace*, because Orestes

was here healed of his disorder, containing another

temple of the Eumenides; and lastly a sanctuary

named Cureium, because Orestes here cut off his

hair. These stations lay between the villages Sinano

and St. Beiy in the district where there are four tu­

muli. From the Maniae there was a distance of 15

stadia to the Alpheius, near the place where it re­

ceives the Gatheatas, joined by the Carnion. This

united stream is the Xerilo Potamo. From the Al­

pheius the road led to Cromi, a distance of 40 sta­

dia, and from Cromi to Nymphcs, a distance of 20

stadia. Nymphus was a place abounding in water

and trees, from which there were 30 stadia to the

Hkkmaeim, which marked the boundaries of Me­

galopolis and Messcnia. (Paus. viii. 34.)

2. The road to Carnasium, in Messema, ran north

of the former road, but parallel to it. It crowed the

Alpheius, where it is joined to the united waters of

the Malus (MaAovs) and Scyrls (2«Cpos). The

Mai us is probably the river of Xeokhori, which,a little

westward of Dedebey^ receives a small stream answer­

ing to the Seyms. After proceeding from thence 30

stadia on the right bank of the Malus, you crossed

the river and ascended, by a steep path, to a village

called Phakdkias (♦at&'pfas), which appears to have

stood on the height above Neolchori. Fifteen stadia

further was the Hermakcm, named Despoena, an­

other boundary between the territories of Megalopolis

and Messenia. (Paus. viii. 35. §§ 1, 2.)

3. The road to Sparta was for the most part the same

as the modern road from Leondari toMistra. At the

distance of 30 stadia the road crossed the Alpheius,

where it is joined by the TheiCs (©eiors), now called

Kutufarina. From thence the road followed the left

bank of the Theius for 40 stadia to Piialf.siak

(•VaAauJiat), which was 20 stadia distant from the

1Ii-.kmai.im towards Belemina. About 20 stadia

beyond is the division of the waters flowing south­

ward to the Eurotas, and northward to the Alpheius.

(Paus. viii. 35, seq.)

4. The road to Methydrium was 170 stadia in

length. It ran northwards from Megalopolis through

that portion of central Arcadia which was sur­

rounded by the rivers Gortynius, Alpheius, and He­

lisson. Thirteen stadia from the city was a place

called Scias (2«ids), with a temple of Artemis Sci-

atis, founded by the tyrant Aristodemus. Ten stadia

further lay Chakisiar (Xapitriai), and from thence,

a' the distance of another 10 stadia, was Tricoloni

(T/JiKd'Aewoi). These two cities were in ruins in tho

time of Pausanias. Tricoloni, which was founded by

the sons of Lycaon, still posses&ed a temple of Po­

seidon, standing upon a hill in a grove of trees. We

may place Tricoloni near the modern Karatiila, on

the edge of the plain of Megalopolis. At Methydrium

two side roads branched off from the main road.

The road to the left went by Zoetia (10 stadia). Pa-

roreia (10 stadia), and Thyracum (15 stadia), to

Hypsus. Zoktia (Zom'a, Paus.; Zorrttor, Zof-

raoj Staph. B. *. v.) and Pakorkia (Uapwptta)

were founded by Tricolonus. They were in ruins

x 3

