984 SICILIA.

forward a law to admit them without distinction to

the Roman franchise (Cic. ad AH. xiv. 2), but

neither of these measures was accomplished; and we

learn from Pliny that Messana was in his day the

only city in the island of which the inhabitants

possessed the Itoman citizenship: three others, Cen-

turipa, Xetum, and Segesta enjoyed the Jus Latii,

while all the others (except the colonics already

mentioned) were in the ordinary condition of "eivi-

tates stipendiariae" (Phn. iii. 8. s. 14). We hear

very little of Sicily under the Empire; but it is

probable that it never really recovered from the

state of decay into which it had fallen in Strabo's

time. Almost the only mention of it in history is

that of an outbreak of slaves and banditti in the

reign of Gallienus which seems to have resembled

on a smaller scale the Senile wars that had formerly

devastated it (Treb. Poll. GaUten, 4). The in­

creasing importance of the supply of corn from

Africa and Eeypt renders it probable that that from

Sicily had fallen off, anil the small number of re­

mains of the imperial period still exiting in the

island, though so many are preserved from a much

earlier date, seems to prove that it could not then

have been very flourishing. At a late period of the

Empire, also, we find very few names of towns in the

Itineraries, the lines of road being carried through

stations or "mansiones" otherwise wholly unknown,

a sufficient proof that the neighbouring towns had

fallen into decay. {Itin. Ant. pp. 86—98.) In the

division of the provinces under Augustus, Sicily was

assigned to the senate, and was governed by a pro­

consul ; at a later period it was considered as a

part of Italy, and was governed by a magistrate

named a Consularis, subject to the authority of the

Viearius Urbis Romae. (NotU. D'ujn. ii. p. 64; and

Bucking, ad loc.)

Its insular position must have for a considerable

time preserved Sicily from the ravages of ifae barba­

rians who devastated Italy towards the close of the

Western Empire. Alaric indeed attempted to cross

over the straits, but was foiled by a tempest. (Hist.

Misccll. x:ii. p. 535.) But Genseric, being master

of a powerful fleet, made himself master of the

whole island, which was held by the Vandals for a

time, but subsequently passed into the hands of the

Goths, and continued attached to the Gothic kingdom

of Italy till it was conquered by Belisarius in A. i>.

535. It was then united to the Eastern Empire,

and continued to be governed as a dependency by

the Byzantine emperors till the ninth century, when

it fell into the hands of the Saracens or Arabs.

That people first landed at Mazara, in the W. of the

island in a. d. 827, and made themselves masters

of Agrigentmn; but their progress was vigorously

opposed. They took Messana in 831, and Panormus

in 835, but it was not till 878 that Syracuse, the

last fortress in the island, fell into their hands.

The island continued in the possession of the Sa­

racens till the middle of the eleventh century, when

it was partially recovered by the Byzantine em­

perors with the assistance of the Normans. But in

1061 the Norman Roger Guiscard invaded Sicily on

his own account, and, after a long struggle, wholly

reduced the island under his dominion. It has since

remained attached, with brief exceptions, to the crown

of Naples, the monarch of which bears the title of

King of the Two Sicilies.

The extant remains of antiquity in Sicily fully

confirm the inference which we should draw from

the statements of ancient historians, as to the

SICIL

prosperity and opulence

Greeks, and its compa:

under the Romans. Th

are few, and for the m

exceptions being confine<

which we know to have

while the temples, theatr

the Greek period are n

striking character. No

exception of Athens, cj

vie with those of which 1

at Agrigentum, Selinos i

time the existing relics a

and inscriptions, strong

almost the whole papula

gradually Hellenised. I

line of demarcation whi

Thucydides between the

non-Hellenic or barbariai

degree effaced btfore tl

dominion of Rome. The

mentioned by Cicero in 1

purely Greek where thej

origin, such as Centnripc

Carthaginian cities like

as are those of Syracus

manner we find coins wi

numerous cities which □

Greek colony, such as A

others. It is probable itu

Republic the Language o

the written and cultivi

which must, however, I

Latin under the Einpir

the present day is one

differs but slightly from

Of the language of th<

trace at all, and it is

never used as a written

III. To;

The general descripti.

of Sicily has been alrei

necessary here to descri

more detail. The E. <

Pelorus to Pachynus, c

a very different characte

menium, a distance of;

bordered by the chain oi

Neptunius, the slopes o

the sea, forming a very oj

by numerous small torrei

lands between these vail

names of Drepanum (P

but their identification

Tauromenium, from th<

that of the Symaethna

by beds of lava and ot

have flowed down from

midway between Acium

islets of volcanic origin

pum ScopuU: the name

by the same author to i

but it is impossible so &

sheltered coves on this

designate, S. of the Si

varied, being indented

inlets, separated by proj<

principal of these is

Megarensis) so called

name: it was bounded i

