428 NIGEIR. KIE.

K1E (Ni7i, Isidor. Partk. tf». ed. Miiller), a small

place in Ariana, probably the present Nek. in Ko-

huUin. [V.]

NIGEIR or NIGIK (Nr?€ip, Ptol. iv. 6. § 14;

Ncyip. Agathem. ii. 10; Niger, f/e». Nigris, I'lin.

v. 4, 8, viii. .12), a groat river of Interior Libya,

Wowing from W. to E. It has long been a moot

point among geographers whether tlie Nigeir of

ihe ancients should be identified with the river

now known us the Djolifju or Uunrra, which, after

taking its eour.se through the vast plains or low­

lands »f Central Africa, turns southwards towards

the fiiyhl'of Jitnin, where it enters the sea. For

instance, GosseHn (Geographie des Anciens, vol. i.

pp. 125 —135) came to the conclusion that the an­

cients possessed no knowledge of XW. Africa to the

S. of the river Nun, Walckenaer (Reclierches Geo-

tjrttjfhifjws sur r/nterienr d< VAfriipte Septen-

trutnale, Pails. 1821) also, who has carefully dis­

cussed this point, sums, up the result of his inquiries

by asserting that none of Ptolemy's rivers can be

the same as the hjolibd or any other stream of the ^

Bitetiu-l-Sihldn, as that region was quite unknown |

to antiquity, and was, in reality, discovered by the

Arabs. Following in the same track, Mr. Cooley

{Claudius Ptolemy awl the Nik, London, 1854)

regards the Nigeir as a hypothetical river, repre­

senting collectively the waters of the Riledu-l-Jt rui.

On the other hand, Colonel Leake (Jown. Geog.

Soc. vol. ii. pp. 1—28), whose views are adopted in

the pre-cnt article,considers that Ptolemy's informa­

tion on the J>julil»'t or Quarra, although extremely

imperfect, was real. There seems, indeed, to be

reason for believing that its discovery may be placed

at a much earlier period, and that its banks were

reached by the young Nasamoncs. [Nasamonks.]

Ptolemy's statements (/. c.) are annexed, from which

it will be seen that the arguments in favour of the

identity of his Nigeir with the Quorra are very

strong. lie believed that the earth was spherical;

he divided the great circle into 360°; of these de­

grees he placed the same number in the breadth of

N. Africa, that modern observations confirm; in the

length of the same country lie erred only one-tenth

in excess. While in the interior, proceeding from a

point of the W. coast, where his positions approxi­

mate to modern geography, he placed a gn at river,

fl'ming from W. to E., exactly in the latitude where

the Quorra Hows in that direction.*

In considering the exact meaning of this passage,

* In the interior of Lihya, lays Ptolemy,  
greatest riven are the Geir aud the Nipvir-

K. luiitf.

The (i. ir unites Mount Usargala

wiiti the Ciiam nine I'har.mx. A

river diverge* from it at

And makes (In- Like Chtlonidei, of

which the middle is hi -

This river is said to be lost under­

ground, and to reappear, forming

another river, of which the W. end

Uat«

The I". part of the rivrr forms the

hike Nuba, of which the position is

Tin* Nigeir joins the mountains Man.

dru» and Thai i, ami forms the hike

Nik rites, ot which tlx* position is -

Tliis river has two northerly diver-

gents to the mountains Saga|>ola

and Usargala; to the K, one diver­

gent to tin* lake Libye, the posi­

tion of which lake i*

And to tht- S. on.- divergent to the

rivi r Darai, at two positions -

ami -------

In the Latin -

and

the

N.

42°

0'

16° 0'

4'J°

o/

20= 0'

<y

irp v

S0°

c

15°

c

18° 0'

350

0'

10° 30'

2C°

0'

IT- 0'

24-

n'

1T° 0-

21 o

0'

i;° c

21°

w

Vi° 30'

it should be remembered that the word topri

translated "divergent," simply indicates the fwnl <

junction of two streams, without any referam

the course of their waters. At pre>ent, our «p

quaintancc with the Quorra is too limited to him

t ity any of its divergents; and even were tbm irt

by which to institute a comr-arison, the iinperipc'ja

of Ptolemy's information will probably Wave tta

particulars in obscurity. After having su:ri 'h

the Geir and Nigeir are the two prinrijal nwi

the interior, he describes the one. as V"kmr i-wii

(Itifrvyt'vtDv) the Garamantic 1'ha rani with M

Usargala; and the latter, as uniting in the.csiren

Mt. Mandrus with Mt. Thala. It is plain that 1

considers them to be rivers beginning and coding

the interior, without any connection with the *

If two opposite branches of a river. ri;ir.; in H

very distant mountains, flow to a common rem*w

the whole may be described as joining tl* ti

mountains. Of the general direction of the rim

of the Nigeir there can be no doubt, as tlx latittJ

and longitudes of the towns on its banks

28) prove a general bearing of E. and W.: aua fa

its not being named among the rivers uf lU'

coast T), it must have been suppled to Q

from W. to E. The lake Libye, to which tbftii

an E. divergent, though its position falls 300 P

miles to the NW. of Lake Tschad, may be presoa

to represent this, the principal lake of the Urt*fl

it was natural that Ptolemy, like many <d 1

moderns, should have been misinformed as t«

position, and communication of the river

lake. It is now, indeed, known that the river d

not communicate with Lake Tschad, and tha: «

not a river of the interior in Ptolemy's sense; i

its sources are in a very different latitude froao I

which he has given; and its course varies <

siderably from the enormous extern of direttaa

the E.. which results from his p^ition of the Ii

on its hanks. But recent invest ieations Lavc»i

that the difference of longitude between his mnl

the river and the W. coast is the same as that $

by modern observations, — that ThamoSTVatj

(BaixovBdnaya, § 28), one of his towns on the Nijj

coincides with Timbuktu, as laid down by XL J«

from fail lie, — that the length of the cours* J

river is nearly equal to that of the Quern, as a

the mountain of Kong, with the addition d

Sfiadda or Shary afFunda, — while Ml Thai* »

near that in which it may be supposed tftat;

Shadda lias its origin. In the iniperfect *H

our information ujon the countries berwet^i

and Darfur, it would be hazardous to ideainft

lakes Cheh uides and Nuba, In comparing I'T- 'd

description of the central country between tLr

and Nigeir, there are reasons for concluding ilj

had acquired an obscure knowledge of it, **ttQ

that which had reached Europe before the

of Denham, Clapperton, and Lander. The \

great river, the Geir or GiR {T*tp. § ^1

same as the river called ML<.<- f id by P.rv*

Om Tei/matn, in Arabic, by Bnrckhardt; *tiJ

indigenous name Djyr recalls tltat of Ptt^cn.j

which takes a general course from Sfc* ta

liurckhardt adds, that this country produce »

which agrees with what is stated tr C h

{Idyll, in Ndum, 19), who, as an African. «cq

he an authority, though, like an Afrir*n. ha

founds all the rivers of his countrv wiih

but, in another passage (/. Consul. StihcJL i

he represents the Gir as a separate river, rx\

