SI'J LUCAXIA. LL'CERIA.

be regarded u only the salient points of one large

projecting mass which separates tlie gulf of Paestum

from that of Policastro. The latter seems to have

been known in ancieni times as the gulf of Lalis.

Opposite to the headland called Pisidium was the

amall islet named by the Greeks LjECOOHA, from

which the promontory now derives the name of

Punla di Licota ; and a little further S., off the

coast of Velia, were the two islands (also mere rocks)

called by the Greeks the Oknotiudes. (Strab. vi.

p. 252; Plin. iii. 7. 8. 13.)

The towns of I.ucunia may be conveniently enu­

merated in two classes :—the first comprising those

along the coasts, which were alnnat without excep­

tion of Greek origin; the other containing the towns

of the interior, which were for the most part either

native I,ucanian settlements, or Roman colonies of a

later date. On the W. coast, proceeding along the

shore of the Tyrrhenian sea, from X. to S., were:—

PosinoNiA, afterwards called Paksti'M, a very little

war from the month of the Silarus; Elea or Veua,

at the mouth of the Heles (/Ifcn/o); Prxca, called

by the Romans Buxentim, now Policattro; Sci-

nr.rs. supposed to have occupied the site of Sapri;

I'.i.aM'A. now Maratea ; and Laus, which was at

the mouth of the river of that name, on its right bank.

On the E. coast, bordering on the gulf of Tarentum,

and beginning from the Crathis, stoixi Thurii, re­

placing the ancient city of Sydakis, but not occupy­

ing precisely the same site; Sims, which had in like

manner been succeeded by the more recent settle­

ment of ll> h.m t.i a. a few miles further N.; and,

lastly. Mi i ai'dm in, on the southern bauk of the

river Bradanus.

The principal towns in the interior were:— Po­

tentia, still called Polenza, and the capital of

the province known as the Baiilicala; Atina, still

calUd Atina, in the upper valley of the Tanaper;

Volckium or VoIjCbntum, now Buccino; Nu-

xiistho, of uncertain site, but apparently in the

same neighliourhood; Kmiil (Ebvli), which is ex­

pressly called by Pliny a I.ucanian town, though

situated to the X.of the Silarus ; I'. is 11 i. Bimzi, a

few miles from Venusia, on the very frontiers of

Apulia, so that it was sometimes referred to that

country; Glii'MENTUM (near Sajwimra), one of the

most considerable towns in Lucania; Ni 1:1 i ,i m,

proliably at La Itatonda, and MuBaJICaf, still called

Morano, almost adjoining the frontier of Bruttium.

CoMail.lNUM or Codiumm may probably be placed

at Pa/lula, in the upper valley of the Tanager, and

Tkgianl'M at Diano, in the same neighbourhood;

while I.'i Polla, in the same valley, occupies the

Kite of r'onxM Popiu.il; Sontia, noticed only by

Pliny, is probably the pla■ •• now called Sanza; while

the Tergilani and Ursentiui of the same author are

wholly unknown, unless the former name be cor­

rupted from that of Tegianum, already noticed.

(Plin. iii. 11. a. 15; Lib. Colon, p. 209.) Of the

few names mentioned by Strabo (vi. p. 254), those j

of Vertinae and Calasama are wholly unknown.'

The existence of a I.ucanian Petkija and Pan-

I'hsia, in addition to the liruttian cities of those

names, is a subject of great doubt.

The principal line of highroad through Lncania

was the Via Popillia (regarded by the Itineraries as

a branch of the Via Appia), which, in its curse

from Capua to Uhegium, traversed the whole pro-:

vines from N. to S. The stations on it given in the

Aulonine Itinerary, p. 109, are (proceeding from

Nuceria): —

Ad Tnnagrnin -

Ad Calorem

Marciliana

Cacsa nana

Kerulum -

Sub Murauo

- XXV.

- xxir.

- XXT.

- xxi.

- xxiii.

- xiv.

The Tabula gives a place which it calls Was

Mcmlicolus (?) as the intermediate station between

Mam]una and Kerulum. All these station* are

very doubtful, the exact line of the ancient ned

through this mountain country having never been

traced with accuracy. Another road, given in the

Tabula, led from Potentia by Anxia (.lw;i) and

Grumentum to Xerulum, where it joined the Via

Popillia. The other roads in the interior, given in

the Itinerary and the Tabula, are very corrupt; we

may, however,ascertain that there was a line of pad

proceeding from Venusia through Potentia to He-

raclea and Thurii, and another from Potentia to

join the Via Popillia at Marciliana. being probably

the direct hue of communication between Potentia

and Rome. Lastly, there was always a line of

road along the coast, following its level shores

from Tarentum by Metapontuin and Heracles U

Thurii. [E. H. B-]

COIN OF I.ITANIA.

IXCE'lilA (AouaVa, Pol., Strab.: Elk. Aewt-

pivot, Steph. B.; Lucerinus: I.ucrra), an incint

anil important city of Apulia situatetl in the interior

of that country, about 12 miles W. of Aria, and 9

X. of Accae (Trojii). It is railed by ancient wri­

ters a city of the Oaunians, and the tradition currrnt

among the Greeks ascribed its foundation,in ctsnnvua

with that of Arpi and Cannsium, to Diumed; m

proof of which an ancient statue of Minerva, is taw

temple of that giddess, was slleged to be the true

Palladium brought by l)iomed himself from Tnw.

(Strab. vi. pp. 264. 284; Plin. iii. 11. a. If. i i •:

all the accounts of the city from the time that its

name ap|*ars in history would seem to punt to its

being an Oscan town, and connected rather with it*

Oscan branch of the Apullans than with the Uasv-

nians. Nothing is known of the history of Lort-ria

till the Second Snmnite War, when the I.unmans.

who had apparently joined with the other Apuhana.

in their alliance wilh Rome in no. 326. but bad

refused to partake in their subsequent defection la

the Samnites, were besieged by the Utter ivpl*;

and the Human legions were ou their way torelsna

and succour them, w-heu they sus'ained the free*

disaster at the Caudiue Knrks. (Liv. ix. 2; I .»-

kenborch, ad toe.; Aur. Vict, dt Yir. JUmtL 30.)

It is clear that in consequence of that bl.w ta the

Roman power, Luceria fell into the hands of Use

Samnites, as we are told shortly after that the hos­

tages given np by the R>man» by the treaty at Cam-

dium were depwited for safely in that city. ;I:

ix. 12.) For this reason its recovery was a n.»t

object with the Mutilans; and in n. c. 320, Papihns

Cursor laid siege to Luceria with a large army, aad.

