INDIA. 49 INDIA.

that he crossed the Indus, and obtained by marriage

Anclnteia, Gedrosia, and the Paropamisadae, from

Mrucus. (.Strab. xv. p. 724; Appian, Syr. 55.) It

wis to bis court that Megasthenes (as we have before

>Uted) was sent. Sandrocottus was succeeded by

Amitruchates (Sansc. A mitraghdtas), which is almost

certainly the true form of the name, though Strabo

ait him Allitrochades. He was the contemporary

of Antiochus Soter. (Atlien. xiv. 67.) It is clear,

fruiti Athenaeus (£. c). that the same friendship was

maintained between the two descendants as between

the two fathers. Daimachus was sent as ambassador

u Palibothra. (Strab. ii. p. 70.) Then came the

wars between the Parthians and Bactrians, and the

more complete establishment of the Graeco-Bactrian

kingdom, under Menander, Apollodotus, Eucratides,

and their successors, to which we cannot here do more

than allude. The effect, however, of these wars was

to interrupt communication between the East and the

Wtst; hence the meagre nature of the historical re­

cords of the period. The expedition of Antiochus the

Great to India brought to light the name of another

kinj, Sophagasenns (Polyb. xi. 32), who was, in all

prjoability, king of the Prasii. The Scythians finally

pnt an end to the Bactrian empire about B.C. 136.

(be Guignes, Mem. de FA cad, d. Inter, xxv. p. 17.)

This event is noticed in the Periplus (p. 22), where,

however, Parthi must be taken to mean Scythi.

(x* also PeriptrtSi p. 24 ; Dionys. Perieg. vv. 1087

—1088.) Eustathius adds, in his commentary on

DitAiysius :—Of tcad 'IrBotJKvOai <tvv84tq)s \tyop4-

roc Minnagara was their chief town, a name, as

appears from Isid. Char. ( p 9), which was partly

Scythian and partly Sanscrit. (Of. also De Guignes,

tc)

The Scythians were in their turn driven out of

India by Vicrimaditya, about b. c. 56 (Colebrooke,

J*d. Algebra, Lond. 1817, p. 43), who established

hi* seat of empire at Oujeia ( Ujjayinx). At the time

when the Periplus was compiled, the capital had been

seain changed, as we there read, 'Of^t iv jj xal

ri BaaiXtta vportpoy %v.

It is remarkable that no allusion has been found

in an/ r,f the early literature of the Hindus to Alex­

ander the Great; but the effect of the later expeditions

ef the Bactrian kings is apparently indicated under

U* name of the Yaeana. In the astronomical works,

the Yaeana are barbarians who understood astronomy,

whence it has been conjectured by Colebrooke that

the Alexandrians are referred to. (Ind. Algebra,

p. 80.) Generally, there can be no doubt that the

Yiiraita mean nations to the \V. of India. Thus, in

the ILthabhirata, they make war on the Indians, in

cenjuDctuin with the Puradi (i. e. Parthi), and the

Sacae or Scythians. ( Lassen, Pen/ap. p. 60.) In the

iJrama of the Mudra-Raxasa, which refers to the

war between ChandragtipLa and another Indian King,

it a stated that Cusurnapura (i. e. Palibothra) was

mmiami«l by the Cirratae, Yavani,Cambogi, Persac,

Bactrians, and the other forces of Chandragupta, and

tbe king of the Mountain Regions. Lassen thinks,

with much reason, that this refers to Seleucus, who,

is bis «*r with Chandragupta, reached, as we know,

raobothra. (Plin. vi. 17.)

With regard to the commerce of ancient India,

*hkh we have every reason to suppose was very  
exieotive, it is impot*ibIe in this place to do more than

to indicate a few of the principal facts. Indeed, the

fTmmerceof India, including the northern and the

* cithern dutricta, may be considered as an epitome  
"'tae tornmercc of the world, there being few pro-

vat n.

duct inns of any other country which may not be

found somewhere within its vast area.

The principal directions in which the commerce of

ancient India flowed were, between Western India

and Africa, between the interior of the Deccan and

the out ports of the southern and western coast of

the Indian Ocean, between Ceylon and the ports of

the Coromandel coast, between the Coromandel

coast and the Aurea Chersonesus, and, in the N.,

along the Ganges and into T^tary and the territory

of the Sinae. There appears also to have been a

remarkable trade with the opposite coast of Africa,

along the district now called Zanguebar, in sesamum,

rice, cotton goods, cane-honey (sugar), which was

regularly sent from the interior of Ariai-a (Concan)

to Barygaza (Beroack), and thence westward. (Pe~

rtpL p. 8.) Arab sailors are mentioned who lived

at Muza (Mocha), and who traded with Barygaza.

(Peripl. p. 12.) Banians of India had established

themselves on the N. side of Socotra, called the island

of Dioscorides (Peripl. p. 17): while, even so early

as Agatharchides, there was evidently an active com­

merce between Western India and Yemen. (Aga-

tharch. p. 66, ed. Hudson.) Again, the rapidity with

which Alexander got his fleet together seems to

show that there must have been a considerable com­

merce by boats upon the Indus. At the time of tin:

Periplus there was a chain of ports along the western

coast, — Barygaza (Beroach), Muziris in Limyrica

(Mangalore), Nelkynda (Neliceram), Pattala (once

supposed to be Tatta, but much more probably Hy-

drabdd), and Callicne, now Galium (Peripl. p. 30):

while there were three principal emporia for mer­

chandise, — Ozene (Qujtin), the chief mart of

foreign commerce, (vide an interesting account of

its ruins, Asiat. Be*, vol. vi. p. 36), and for the

transmission of the goods to Barygaza; Tagara, in

the interior of the Deccan (almost certainly I)eu-

ghiror Devanagari near EUora), whence the goods

were conveyed over difficult roads to Barygaza and

Pluthana or Plithana, a place the exact position of

which cannot now be determined, but, from the cha­

racter of the products of the place, must have been

somewhere in the Ghats.

Along the llegio Paralia to the S., and on the

Coromandel coast, were several ports of consequence;

and extensive pearl fisheries in the kingdom of king

Pandion, near Colchi, and near the island of Epio-

dorus, where the mrruroV (a silky thread spun from

the Pinna-fish) was procured. (Peripl. p. 33).

Further to the N. were, — Masalia (Masulipatam),

famous for its cotton goods (Peripl. p. 35); and

Gauge, a great mart for muslin, betel, pearls, &c,

somewhere near the mouth of the Ganges, its exact

locality, however, not being now determinable.

(Peripl. p. 36.) The commerce of Ceylon (Selandib,

i. e. Sinhala-dwipd) was in pearls of the best class,

and precious stones of all kinds, especially the ruby

and the emerald. The notices in Ptolemy and Pliny

shew that its shores were well furnished with com­

mercial towns (Ptol. vii. 4. §§ 3, 4,5), while we know

from the narrative of Cosmas Indicopleustes (up.

\ Montfaucon, Coll. Nova BibL Patr. vol. ii.) that it

was, in the sixth century A,r>., the centre of Hindu

commerce. Besides these places, we learn that there

was an emporium upon the Coromandel coast, wIi-mku

the merchant ships crossed over to Chryse (in all

probability Malacca), in the Aurea Chersonesus; the

name of it, however, is not specified.

It is probable, however, that the greatest line of

commerce was from the N. and W. along the

K

