434 NILUS. NII.US.

continued by Dareius Hystaspis (b. c. 520—527),

but nly completed by Ptolemy Philadelphia (n. c

274). It began in the Pelusiac branch of the Nile,

a little above the city of Bubastus (Tel-Bastu), and

parsing by the city of Thoum or Patumns, was car­

ried by the Persians as far as the Bitter Lakes, NE.

of the Delta. Here, however, it was suspended by

the troubles of both Aegypt and Persia, under the

successors of Dareius, and was, in a great measure,

clinked up with sand. (Herod, ii. 158.) At length

Phtladelphus, after cleansing and repairing the

channel, carried it onward to Andnoe. at the head of

the Sinus Heroopolites. (Plin. vi. 29. s. 33.) The

Ptolemaic canal, however, suffered the fate of its

predecessor, and even beforo the reign of Cleopatra

had become useless for navigation. The connection

by w:»ter between Arsinoe and the Nile was renewed

by Trajan, a. d. 106; but his engineers altered the

direction of the cutting. They brought the stream

from a higher pnrt of the river, in order that the

current mfcht run into, instead of from, the Red

Sea, and that the intervening sandy tracts might be

irricated by fresh instead of partially salt water.

The canal of Trajan accordingly began at Babylon,

on the eastern bank of the Nile, opposite Memphis,

and. passing by Hel'iopolis, Scenae Veteranorum, He-

roopolis, and Serapion, entered the Red Sea about

20 miles S. of Arsinoe, at a town called Klysmon,

from the locks in its neighbourhood. The work of

Trajan was either more carefully preserved than that

of the Mace Ionian and Persian kings of Aegypt bad

been, or, if like them, it fell into decay, it was re-

] tired and reopened by the Mahommedan conquerors

of the country. For, seven centuries after Trajan's

deo'oe, we read of Christian pilgrims sailing along

his canal on their route from England to Palestine.

(I)icueil, de Mensur. Orbit, vi. ed Letronne.)

2. The Canopic canal (tj Kavw&a^ 8iw^u{, Strab.

xvii. p. 800; Strph. B. *. r.) connected the city of

Canopus with Alexandreia and the lake Mareotis.

Its banks were covered with the country houses and

gardens of the wealthy Alexandrians, and formed a

kind of water suburb to both the Aegyptian and

Macedonian cities. [Canoi'US.]

Physical Character of the Nile.

The civilisation of all countries is directly influ­

enced by their rivers, and in none more so than in

Ae^vpt. which has been truly called the gift of the

Nile* (Herod, ii. 5; Strab. xi. p. 493.) To it*

stream the land owed not only its peculiar cultiva­

tion, but its existence also. Without it the Libyan

waste would have extended to the shores of the

Red Sea. The limestone which lies under the

soil of Aegypt, the sands which bound it to E. and

W., were rendered by the deposits of the river fit

for the habitation of man, The Delta, indeed, was

absolutely created by the Nile, Its periodical floods

at first narrowed a bay of the Mediterranean into an

estuary, and next filled up the estuary with a plain

of teeming alluvial soil. The religion, and many of

the peculiar institutions of Aegypt, are derived from

its river; and its physical characteristics have, in

all ages, attracted the attention of historians and

geographers.

Its characteristics may be considered under the

heads of (1) its deposits; (2) the quality of its

waters; and (3) its periodical inundations.

(I.) Its deposits.— Borings made in the Delta to

the depth of 45 feet, have shown that the soil con­

sists ot vegetable matter and an earthy deposit, such

as the Nile now brings down. The ingmiicc*_* *A

this deposit are clay, time, and siliceous *and. bit

their proportion is affected by the soil over wluch ti*

river flows. Calcareous and argillaceous marter

abound in the neighbourhood of Cairo and tie

Delta; silex preponderates in the granitic and *aod-

stone districts of Upper Aegypt. The amount J

this deposit corresponds generally to the slope of the

banks and the distance from the river. In L^wtf

Nubia and Upper Aegypt alluvial cliffs are fanned it

the height of 40 feet; in Middle Aegypt they v.k

to 30; at the point of the Delta to about eights**.

The earthy matter is deposited in a convex forw;

the larger quantity lying close to the stream, las

smaller at the verge of the inundation. As a cld.-*-

quence of this fall from the banks towards the de-en,

the limit to which the inundation reaches U slowly ex-

extending itself; but as the Kile raises its own bee a*

well as its banks,their relative proportion is preserred.

The deposit of the Nile is found to consist «sf(l)

clay, constituting 48 in 100 parts; (2) carbarn, 9

parts; (3) carbonate of lime 18 parta, and 4 part* af

carbonate of magnesia, besides portions of Mlicia a&J

oxide of iron. These form a compost so rich, that Urn

land on which they are [>erennia]ly deposited reqooas

no other manure, and produces without further no­

vation successive harvests of corn. (Albert, ii. 41,42;

Plin. xviii. 19. s. 21.)

(2.) The quality of its vaters.—The water itseif

is not less important to Aegypt than the ingredient*

which it precipitates or holds in solution. Exovat

some short streams in the Arabian bills, torreaU at

one season and dry at another, the Nile t» the aary

river in Aegypt. Natural springs do not exi< in

the upper country; and the wells of the I>elta a&rd

only a turbid and brackish fluid. The river m ac­

cordingly the single resource of the inhabitants; and

the frequent ablutions enjoined by their religion

rendered a copious supply of water more than arii-

narily important to them. Between its highest and

lowest periods, the water of the Nile is dear. Waam

lowest, it is feculent (Athen. ii. 42); and at the

beginning of the inundation is covered with a grcea-

ish vegetable matter, that is said to catue erup­

tive disease. But even when most turbid, it u &4

unwholesome, and is always capable of filtraiaai.

Tho water in its medium state was pure and de­

licious to the taste. The Persian kirvs, after the

conquest of Aegypt, imported it fur their own draw­

ing to Susa and r>batana (Athen. ii. 54, 67); aaJ

the emperor Pescennius Niger replied to hu solu.frV

demand for wine, "Have yon not the water of \im

Nile." (Spartian. ap. August Hist, Script. IV*-

cenn. Niger, c. 7.) These changes in the hac and

quality of the water were ascribed to the overtl •«» j*»

of the Nubian lakes, or to the passage of the ttrvaei

over various strata. But until the channel* *** tht

White and Blue Rivers have been explored t*» thasr

sources, we must be content to remain ignorant if

the real causes of these phenomena.

(3.) Its periodical inundations* — The naaaaa

of the inundation early attracted the car»»ii* «/

ancient ob>ervers; and various tbewriea wrrr •£#-

vised to account for them. It was belwwd t<- trio*

from the melting of the snow on the Abeaaiaaaa

in»nntain< (Schol. in ApolL KhoA* it. S69; Eanm.

Helen, init.); and Herodotus rejects this im­

position, because, as he conceived, although err-t*-

ously, that snow was unknown in Aethiorxa (u. J2V

It was ascril>cd to the Etesian winds, which. W -wiz*

from the N. in summer, force back the waaso

