1102 TARQUINII. TARQUINII.

tion considered as subsisting between tliis Tages and

Tarehon himself, the eponymous hero of Tarquinii.

(Miiller, Etrwkertvo], i. p. 73.) It is impossible here

to discuss the historical bearings of these traditions,

which seem to point to Tarquinii as the point from

whence the power and civilisation of the Etruscans

emanated as from a centre, while on the other hand

there is another body of traditions which seems to

represent that people as gradually extending them­

selves from the north, and Cortona as the first centre

and stronghold of their power. [Etrtkia, Vol. I.

p. 859.] A somewhat different version is giren by

Ju-tin, who states that Tarquinii was founded by the

ThmrWtnt, probably meaning the l'elasgians from

Thessaly, to whom Hellanieus ascribed the colonisa­

tion of Etruria in general. (Justin, xx. lj Hel-

lanic. np f)umt/&. i. 28.)

But whatever value may be attached to these

traditions, they may at least be admitted as proving

the reputed high antiquity and early power of Tar­

quinii as compared with the other cities of Southern

Etruria: and this is confirmed by the important

position it appears to have held, when its name first

appears in connection with the Roman history. Ci­

cero calls it '* urbem Etruriae florentissimam" at

the time when Demaratus. the father of Tarqui-

nius 1'riscus, was said to have established himself

there. (Cic. de Rrp. ii. 19.) It is remarkable

indeed that the story which derived the origin of the

Roman kins Tarquinius from Corinth represented

his father Demaratus as bringing with Mm Greek

artists, and thus appears to ascribe the first origin

ur introduction of the arts into Etruria, as well as

its religious institutions, to Tarquinii. (I'lin. xxxv.

12. s. 43; Strab. v. p. 220.) It is unnecessary to

rervat here the well-known story of the emigration

of an Etruscan Lueuino from Tarquinii to Koine,

where he became king under the name of Lucius

Tarquinius. (Liv. i. 34; Diaojs. iii. 46—4S; Cic.

de Rfp, ii. 19, 20; Strab. v. p. 219.) The con-

iiection with Tarquinii is rejected by Niebuhr, as a

mere etymological fable, but it is not easy to say on

what grounds. The name of Tarquinius, as that of

a gens or family, as well as that of the city, is

undoubtedly Etruscan; the native form being

*■ Tarenas:" and the strong infusion of Etruscan  
influence into the Roman state before the close of

the regal period is a fact which cannot reasonably

be questioned. It is remarkable also that the

hVcnan traditions represented the Tarquinians as

fining with the Wienies in the first attempt to

"restore the exiled Tarquins, B-C. 509, though from

this time fifth we do not again bear of their name

for ta« than a century. (Liv. ii. 6, 7; Dionys.

t. 14.) The story of the emigration of the elder

Tarqain to Rome, as well as that of his father De-

marains from Corinth, may fairly be deemed un-

wwthv of behef ia its prtsemt Jom.-but it is probable

that ia both case* there was a historical foundation

for the brtwa-

Arter the war already mentioned, in the first

tckt c£ taw BtpahaV, do subsequent mention of

CmMI occurs m Roman history till b c. 398,

maon the TnqiiMiw took np amis, and ravaged

the Gwaaa temt^oes. while their army was en-

caetd m the siege of YeiL They were, however,

- ■ iimth hone, and all their booty  
(Lit. t. 16.) Ltvy distinctly

"but from

of the

tii in

B.C. 396, had indeed the effect of Wcrar, tot

Romans into immediate collision »ii tbe ana

which lay next beyond it, and amne uW T»-

quinti and Volsinii seem to bare ukee tat iai

Already in b. c. 389, we find the Tirqiiuai j»-

ing with the other cities of Southern Etrtna a ■

attempt to recover Sutrium: the next tot uar

territory was in its turn invaded by the

took the towns of Cortunta and Ceoteaitn. tat

places otherwise unknown, but which afpear u txi

been dependencies of Tarquinii. (Liv. vl X I)

Emm this time we hear no more of them ul B»C

.158, when the Tarquinians, having rancd ai

Roman territories, the consul C. Fabrci

against them, but was defeated in a pitchec bca,

and 307 of the prisoners takes on the oca*

were put to death in the Forum of Tarqiiau.»»

sacrifice to the Etruscan deities. (Lit. ni. 11, "*

Shortly after, we find the Tarquinians sod

again in arms, and in the first battle vhka

between them and the Romans they are satin

obtained the \-ictory by putting forward their

with flaming torches and serpents ia their

to strike terror into their assailants. (Ur. i

17). But the EtruscAns were defeated ns

turn by C. Marcins Rutilus, who was bc*

tator to oppose them: and two yean kter

354) the Romans took a sanguinary reveaet t»

massacre of their prisoners, by potting to

the Eorum at Rome, 358 of the captives U

the Tarquinians, chiefly i<i noble birth. (A.

Rut the spirit of theTarquiasaan was not yKi

and witli the support of the Falisrant a

who now for a short time took part af

they continued the w«r till B. c 351. whs

sued for pace, and obtained a truce fcr fa?

(lb. 19—22.)

This truce appears to have beei

served, for we hear nothing more of

Tarquinii till b. C 311, when the Ti

appear to have united with the other

cities of Etruria in attacking the Rosso

Sutrium. They were, however, defeated fcf

Roman consul Aemilius Barbula, and apirtail

year by Q. Fubius, who followed np his vmrj

passing the Ciminian forest, and carryitg s»

for the first time into Northern Etruria.

no doubt that the Tarquinians, though ad

by name, bore a part in this contest as weB m

great battle at the Vadimonian lake in the

year (b. c 309), as we find them soon

their submission to Rome, and

of the consul Decius by sending aim

corn. (Liv. ix, 32, 3.W39. 41.) They ii*]

tained a fresh truce for forty years (/ft.41):

from this time we hear no more of theia as s

pendent nation. Whether this long trace,

last, was faithfully observed, or the Taeav

more joined in the final struggles of the

for independence, we know not; bat it a

that they passed, in common with the

cities of Etruna, gradually into the

pendent allies of Rome, which the? retaawi

Social War (b. c. 90), when they as well ■

other Etruscans obtained the full

(Appian, B. C. L 49.) The only m

that occurs in this interval is during ibx

Funic War, when the citizens

nish the expedition of Scipio with sail-cki* fc*

fleet. (Liv. xxviii. 45.) Aoconfisc ta tat"

Coloniarum a body of colorisU was aut taah*

