432 NILL'S. NILUS.

desert now disappear. The rocky banks sink down;

the inundation fertilises the borders to a considerable

distance ; and for patches of arable soil fine pastures

abound, whence both Arabia and Aegypt imported

a breed of excellent horses. (Russegger, Karte von

AhZhVti.) But after quitting Napata (?) no re­

mains of antiquity are found before wo arrive at the

Gagaudes Insula of Pliny (vi. 29. s. 35), lat. 19° 35',

the modern Aryo, a little above the third Cataract.

The quarries of this island, which is about 12 miles

in length, and causes a considerable eddy in the

river, were worked both by Acthiopians and Aegyp-

tians. A little to N. of this island, and below

the third Cataract, the Nile makes a considerable

bend to the E., passing on its right bank the ruins

of Seghi, or Sesche. On its left bank arc found the

remains of the temple of Soleb% equally remarkable

for the beauty of its architecture, and for its pic­

turesque site upon the verge of the rich land, " the

river's gift," and an illimitable plain of sand stretch­

ing to the horizon. (Cailiiaud, V hie de Meroe%

vol. i. p. 375; Hoskins, Travels, p. 245.) The

Nile is once again divided by an island called Sais,

and a little lower down is contracted by a wall of

granite on either side, so that it is liardly a stone's-

throw across. At this point, and for a space of

several miles, navigation is practicable only at the

season of the highest floods.

Below Sais are found the ruins of the small

temple of Am.ira, and at Semneh those of two

temples which, from their opposite eminences on the

right and left banks of the river, probably served as

fortresses also at this narrow joss of the Nile. That

a city of great strength once existed here is the

more probable, because at or near Seninch was the

frontier between Aethiopia and Aegypt. We have

now arrived at the termination of the porphyry and

granite rocks: henceforward, from about lat 21°

N., the river-lianks are composed of sandstone, and

acquire a less nigged aspect. The next remarkable

feature is the Cataract of Wadillalfa, the Great

Cataract of the ancient geographers. (Strab. xvii.

p. 78G.)

In remote ante-historic periods a bar of pri­

mitive rock, piercing the sandstone, probably

spanned the Nile at this point (lat. 22° N.) from

shore to shore. But the original barrier has been

broken by some natural agency, and a series of

islands now divides the stream which rushes and

chafes between them. It is indeed less a single fall

or nhoot of water than a succession of rapids, and

may be ascended, as ticlznni did, during the inun­

dation. {Travels in Nubia, p. 85.) The roar of

the waters may be heard at the distance of half a

league, and the depth of the fall is greater than

that of the first Cataract at Sycne. On the left

hank of the river a city once stood in the immediate

neighbourhood 'of the rapids ; and three temples,

exhibiting on their walls the names of Scsorta*en,

Tbothines III., and Amcnophis II., have been par­

tially surveyed here. Indeed, with the second Ca­

taract, we may be *aid to enter the propylaea of

Aegypt itself. For thenceforward to Syene — a

distance of 220 miles - either bank of the Nile

presents a succession of temples, either excavated

in the sandstone or separate structures, of various

eras and styles of architecture. Of these the most

remarkable and the most thoroughly explored is that

of AbootimM or Ipsambul, the ancient lbsciah,

on the left bank, and two days'journey below the

Cataract This temple was 6rst cleared of the iu-

cumbent sand by Belzoni {Researches, roL i. p. 31*5\

and afterwards more completely explored, and Gra­

tified with the reign of Rameses HI., by Chasi-

pollion and Rosellini. Primis (/fcrtm) is one d*i*»

journey down the stream; and below it the sand*he*

hills compress the river for about 2 miles w-.iho

a mural escarpment, so that the current *erir« to

force itself rather than to flow through this hamer.

(3.) The Nile below Syene.—At Syene {.it-

touan), 24° 5' 23'' N. lat., the Nile eaten AcfTpl

Projier; and from this point, with ocxa&ioLal cur­

vatures to the K. or NW., preserves gener-iliy a

due northerly direction as far as its bifurcate

at the apex of the Delta. Its bed pres^uts It:

a slight declivity, the fall being only from 500 to

§00 feet from Syene to the Mediterranean. Ta«

width of the valley, however, through which it flows

varies considerably, and the geological character of

its banks undergoes several changes. At a #t<n

distance below Syene begins a range of aand>Mae

rocks, which pass into limestone below Lat"p)I.t,

lat 25° 30' N.; and this formation continues w»tb-

otit any resumption of the sandstone, until both the

Libyan and the Arabian hills diverge finally at Cer-

casorum. The river thus flows beneath the prbv

cipal quarries out of which the great structures of

the Nile valley were built, and was the high road by

which the blocks were conveyed to Thebes and Apii-

linopolis, to Sais and Bubast is, to the Great laby­

rinth in the Arsinoite nome, to the Pyramids and

Memphis, and, finally, to the Greek and Komsa

architects of Alexandria and AntinoopoJia, Again,

from Syene to Latopolis, the shores of the river an

sterile and dreary, since the inundation is checked

by the rock-walls E. and W. of the stream, hat

at Apollinopolis Magna, lat. 25°, and at Latvia,

25° 30', the rocks leave a broader verge for the fer­

tilising deposit, and the Nile flows through richly

cultivated tracts. At Thebes, for the first time, lie-

banks expand into a broad plain, which is a^sja

closed in at the N. end by the hilts at (Jvmak.

Here the river is divided by small blinds, and is a

mile and a quarter in breadth. It has hitherto fol­

lowed a northerly direction; but at Coptos, where a

road connected the stream with the ports of the I>d

Sea [Bkkenice], it bends to the NW., and foct<w»

this inclination for some distance. At Pampohs,

however, it resumes its general N. bearing,, and re­

tains it to the fork of the Delta.

Near Piospolis Parva {How), on the left back.

and opposite Chenobosciurn, on the right, be^ic* tte

canal, or, perhaps, an ancient brand) of the XuV,

called the Canal of Joseph {BoJir-Jtisuf). Tlu*

lateral stream flows in a direction nearly (tiraDel to

the main one, through the Arsinoite nome (/V-

Fyoum). From this point the Nile itaetf preirati

no remarkable feature until It reaches Spew-Arte-

inidos, cr the grottos of BcntAassan, where the

eastern hills, approaching close to the riTer, Umt

its inundation, and consequently alto the rultit&^W

land. In lat. 29° N. the Libyan hill*, for m -}*■-*.

recede, and curving at first NW., but i»xei r***:n -^

a SE. direction, embrace the Arsinoite nome. LavlJV,

a little below Memphis, and after paving the hiihi

of Utbel-el'Mokattam, both the eastern andwvrtrra

chains of rocks finally diverge, and the river ex-

isinds upon the great alluvial [bun ei ih* lv;ta_

At Cercasorum, where the bifurcation of th» rrt»r

begins, or, perhaps, at a remoter peri»«i. atill

Memphis, the Nile probably nwt the Mnhtrrr

or at least an estuary, which its annual dcpuuU u

