POTHEBEUS.

PRAENESTE. 063

«ojnl mc In the early apes of Christianity; and

• lane of its decay or destruction seems to be uu-

•m ; but the sit* is now wholly deserted. Con-

ccxbk remains of the ancient city were still visi-

« m the time of Uolstenios in the plain on the

-.■it bank of the I'otensa, near its month; and the  
Of is still retained by an ancient church and

Mi called Sta Maria a Potenza, about a mile

a the /Wto di Jieamati. (Hols ten. Ab<. wi

aw. p. 134.)

(nirrtmo. Ptol.: Elk. Potenlinus: Potenza),

::j >A the interior of Lucania, situated in the

>■«; of the Camientus or Baziento, nut fur from

'wcrce, and above 60 miles from the gulf of

awuai. So mention of it occurs in history, and

aarji it is noticed by Pliny, Ptolemy, and the

if ColonianuTj, among the municipal towns of

sssa, we hare no indication of its superior im-

rtaaca. But from the numerous inscriptions dis-

nmj there, it is evident that it was, under the

nu empire, a flourishing municipal town, and

: it that period have been one of the most con-

m Lucania, the towns of that province

rjj for the most part fallen into great decay.

»Iriaeraries give us two lines of road passing

'.ach lJi<entix, the one from Venusia southwards

'«•■» GrumrDtnm ai.d Nerulum, the other from

mtB and the valley of the Silarus, which appears

'■sir been continued in the direction of Taroutum.

at in. IL a. 15; Ptol. iii. 1. § 70; Lib. Col.

M; Itm. Ant. p. 104; Tab. I'eut.; Mommsen

t .V. pp. 23. 24.) The m«lern city of Potenza

tar capital of the Barilicata, a province which

■-trot* ihe greater part of the ancient Lucania:

k»> aot ocenpy precisely the site of the ancient

a. the remains of which are visible at a place

K La Uwrato, in the valley below the modern

L (Banametli, vol. i. p. 435.) [E. H. B.]

MlfclEKEL'S, a river of Crete mentioned by

nma» (L A\ is identified by some with the Ca-

of itolemy. [Catakbhactes.]

ViTIDAEA. (Cassakdkkia.J

VTLDA'NlA(noTuWn: Eth noTioandnit),a

■ J Aetoiia Epictetus, on the borders of Locris,

-u day s march from Oeneon. (Thuc. iii. 96;  
.iXTitL I; Steph. B. $. v.)

•ilNUt (noiTiai: Et/u. tlorvitit, fein. nor-

\ » riiiage of Boeotia, on the road from Thebes

'a^ca, dutant 10 stadia from the former city.

»- in rains in the time of Pausanias, and con-

sd s rruve sacred to Demeter and Cora (Proser­

in PstmM is celebrated in mythology as the

is torn to pieces by his

(Xen. UelL v. 4. § 51; Paus. ix.

| I. 3; Steph. B. #. r.; Plin. xxv. 8. a. 53;

f. Gmrj. in. 26S; Ov. Ibu, 557; Vict, of

r art- Glai'CUS.) According to Strabo (p.

• M.-nm authorities regarded Potniae as the Hy-

■aw of Homer (IL ii. 505). Gell places Potniae

• tr-rboourbood of the modern village of Taii.

K itmrrary. p. 110; comp. Leake, Nurtltern

aw. ni. ix. p. 323.)

SUASPA. [PlIKAATA.]

KAXTIUS (npArrmi), a small river in the

a at Tr»«. tWing from Mount Ida. and dis-

T3X >?>rlf into tlie Hellespont a little below

Ma. (Baa*. IL ii 835; Strab. ziii. p. 590;

ue, Atta. L 12. § 6.) Some identify it with

»c«b baroru, and others with the Mutkakoi-

[L.S.]

ttLSESTE (IJ/wWrof, Strab. Appiaii;

UpalKOTc, Dion Cass.: Eth. npaivio-TU'Of, or

npaivtoryvos, Praenestinus: Palestrina), one of

the most ancient, as well as in early times one

of the most powerful and important, of the ci­

ties of Latium. It was situated on a projecting

point or spur of the Apennines, directly oppo­

site to the Alban Hills, and nearly due E. of

Rome, from which it was distant 23 miles.

(Strab. v. p. 238; Itin. Ant. p. 302; Westphal,

ROmische Kampagne, p. 106.) Various mythical

tales were current in ancient times as to its founder

and origin. Of these, that adopted by Virgil as­

cribed its foundation to Cneculus, a refuted son of

Vulcan (Virg. Aen. vii. 678); and this, we learn

from Solinus, was the tradition preserved by the

Praenestines themselves (Solin. 2. § 9). Another

tradition, obviously of Greek origin, derived its

name and foundation from 1'raenestus, a son of

Latinus, the offspring of Ulysses and Circe (Steph.

B. t. v.; Solin. I.e.). Strabo also calls it a Greek

city, and tells us that it was previously called

noAuo-re^aKof (Strab. v. p. 238). Another form

of the same name name is given by Pliny (iii. 5.8. 9),

who tells us its original name was Slephane. And

finally, as if to complete the series of contradictions,

its name is found in the lists of the reputed colonies of

Alba, the foundation of which is ascribed to Latinus

Silvius (Vict. Orig. Gent. limn. 17; Diod. vii. 071.

[ Eustb. Arm. p. 185). But there seems no doubt

that the earlier traditions were those which assigned

it a more ancient and independent origin. The

first mention of its name in history is in the list of

the cities of the Latin League, as given by Diony-

sius, and there can be no doubt of its having formed

an important member of that confederacy, (l)ionys.

v. 61.) But as early as B.C. 499, according to

I.ivy, it quitted the cause of the confederates and

joined the Romans, an event which that historian

places just before the battle of Regillus. (Liv. ii.

19.) Whether its separation from the rest of the

Latins was permanent or not, we have no inform­

ation; but on the next occasion when the name of

l'raeneste occurs, it was still in alliance with Rome,

and suffered in consequence from the ravages of the

Aequians and Volscians, b. c. 462 (Liv. iii. 8).

The capture of Home by the Gauls seems, however,

to have introduced a change in the relations of the

two cities. Shortly after that event (b. c. 383) the

Praenestines are mentioned as making hostile in­

cursions into the territories of the Gabians and

LabicanB: the Romans at first treated this breach of

faith with neglect, apparently from unwillingness to

provoke so powerful an enemy; but the next year,

the Praenestines having sent an anny to the support

of the revolted colonists of Velitrae, war was for­

mally declared against them. The Praenestines now

joined their former enemies the Volscians, and, in

conjunction with them, took by storm the Roman

colony of Satricum. (Liv. vi. 21, 22.) The next

year the Volscians were defeated in a great battle

by Cainillus, but no mention is made of the Prae­

nestines as taking part in it. The following season,

however (11. c. 380), they levied a large anny, and

taking advantage of the domestic dissensions at

Home, which impeded the levying of troops, they

advanced to the very gates of the city. From thence

they withdrew to the hanks of the Allia, where Ihry

were attacked and defeated by T. Quintius Cinciu-

natus, who had been named in all haste dictator.

So complete was their rout that they not only fled

in coulusiun to the very gates of Praeneste, but

u u 4

