LATIUM. 141 LATIUM.

which the ancient Latiura is known in modern

times. [Campasia, p. 494.]

V. Political and Religious Institutions.

It is for the most port impossible to separate the

Latin element of the Roman character and insti­

tutions from that which they derived from the Sa­

bine?: at the same time we know that the con­

nection between the Romans and the Latins was so

intimate, that we may generally regard the Roman

sacred rites, as well as their political institutions, in

the absence of all evidence to the contrary, as of

Latin origin. But it would be obviously here out

« place to enter into any detail as to those parts of

the Latin institutions which were common to the

two nations. A few words may, however, be added,

concerning the constitution of the Latin League, as

it existed in its independent form. This was com­

posed, as has been already stated, of thirty cities,

all apparently, in name at least, equal and inde­

pendent, though they certainly at one time admitted

a kind of presiding authority or supremacy on the

part of Alba, and at a later period on that of Rome.

The general councils or assemblies of deputies

from the several cities were held at the Lucus Fe-

reatinae, in the immediate neighbourhood of Alba;

a custom which was evidently connected in the first

instance with the supremacy of that city, but which

was retained after the presidency had devolved on

R*meT and down to the great Latin War of n. c.

340. (Cincius, ap. Fest. v. Praetor, p. 241.)

Each city had undoubtedly the sole direction of its

own affairs: the chief magistrate was termed a

Dictator, a title borrowed from the Latins by the

Romans, and which continued to be employed as the

name of a municipal magistracy by the Latin cities

lung after they had lost their independence. It is

remarkable that, with the exception of the mythical

or fictitious kings of Alba, we meet with no trace of

monarchical government in Latium; and if the ac-

coant given by Cato of the consecration of the

temple of Diana at Aricia can be trusted, even at

that early period each city had its chief magistrate,

with the title of dictator. (Cato, ap. Prixcian. iv.

p. 629.) They must necessarily have had a chief

magistrate, on whom the command of the forces of

the whole League would devolve in time of war, as

is represented as being the case with Mamilius Oc­

tavos at the battle of Reg ill us. But such a com­

mander may probably have been specially chosen

lit each particular occasion. On the other hand,

Lrrj speaks in b. c. 340 of C. Annius of Setia and

L Xmntsius of Circeii, as the two "praetors of the

Latins,'' as if this were a customary and regular

magistracy. (Liv. vlii. 3.) Of the internal govern­

ment or constitution of the individual Latin cities

we have no knowledge at all, except what we may

(rather from the analogy of those of Rome or of their

later municipal institutions.

As the Lucus Ferentinae, in the neighbourhood of

Alba, was the established place of meeting for po-

Otiaii parposes of all the Latin cities, so the temple

of .Jupiter, on the summit of the Alban Mount

(Monte Cavo), was the central sanctuary of the

whole Latin people, where sacrifices were offered on

their behalf at the Keriae Latinae, in which every

c.tj was bound to participate, a custom retained

■^■n to a very late period by the Romans themselves.

(Liv. xxxii. 1; Cic. pro Plane. 9; Plin. in. 6. s. 9.)

is like manner there can be no doubt that the cus­

tom sometimes adopted by Roman generals of ccle-

brating a triumph on the Alban Mount was derived

from the times of Latin independence, when the

temple of Jupiter Latiaris was the natural end of

such a procession, just as that of Jupiter Capitolinus

was at Rome.

Among the deities especially worshipped by the

Romans, it may suffice to mention, as apparently of

peculiarly Latin origin, Janus, Saturnus, Faunus,

and Picus. The latter seems to have been so closely

connected with Mars, that he was probably only ano­

ther form of the same deity. Janus was originally a

god of the sun, answering to Jana or Diana, the

goddess of the moon. Saturnus was a terrestrial

deity, regarded as the inventor of agriculture and of

all the most essential improvements of life. Hence

he came to be regarded by the pragmatical mytho-

logers of later times as a very ancient king of Latium;

and by degrees Janus, Saturnus, Picus, and Faunus

became established as successive kings of the earliest

Latins or Aborigines. To complete the series Latin us

was made the son of Faunus. This last appears as

a gloomy and mysterious being, probably originally

connected with the infernal deities; but who figures

in the mythology received in later times partly as a

patron of agriculture, partly as a giver of oracles.

(Hartung, Religion der Romer. vol. ii.; Schwegler,

R. G. vol. i. pp. 212—234.)

The worship of the Penates also, though not pe­

culiar to Latium, seems to have formed an integral

and important part of the Latin religion. The

Penutes at Lavinium were regarded as the tutelary

gods of the whole Latin people, and as such continued

to be the object of the most scrupulous reverence to

the Romans themselves down quite to the extinction

of Paganism. Every Roman consul or praetor, upon

first entering on his magistracy, was bound to re­

pair to Lavinium, and there offer sacrifices to the

Penates, as well as to Vesta, whose worship was

closely connected with them. (Macrob.Sat. iii. 4;

Varr. L.L. v. 144.) This custom points to Lavinium

as having been at one time, probably before the rise

of Alba, the sacred metropolis of Latium: and it

may very probably have been, at the same early

period, the political capital or head of the Latin con­

federacy.

VI. Topoorapiit.

The principal physical features of Latium have

already been described ; but it remains here to notice

the minor rivers and streams, as well as the names

of some particular hills or mountain heights which

have been transmitted to us.

Of the several small rivers which have their rise

at the foot of the Alban hills, and flow from thence

to the sea between the mouth of the Tiber and

Antium, the only one of which the ancient name is

preserved is the Numicics, which may be iden­

tified with the stream now called Rio Tor'to, between

Lavinium and Ardea. The Astura, rising also at

the foot of the Alban hills near VeUetri, and flowing

from thence in a SW. direction, enters the sea a

little to the S. of the promontory of Astura: it is

now known in the lower part of its course as the

Fiume di Conca, hut the several small streams by

the confluence of which it is formed have each their

separate appellation. The Nymphakus, mentioned

by Pliny (iii. 5. s. 9), and still called La Ninfa,

rises immediately at the foot of the Volscian moun­

tains, just below the city of Norba: in Pliny's time

it appears to have had an independent course to the

sea, but now loses itself in the Pontine Marshes,

