2 If, LUI'IAE. LUNA.

Ac. But it was speedily adopted for statuary pur­

poses also, for which it was esteemed a finer mate­

rial even than tiie Parian, (l'lin. xxxvi. 5. s. 4,

C. 5. 7; Strab. v. p. 222 ; Sii. Ital. viii. 4SU ; Kutil.

/. e.; Stat. Stiv. iv. 2. 29, 4. 23.) Tho buildings

of Luna itself, ami even its walls, are said to have

bt'en constructed wholly of it, whence Hutilius calls

thcin *' camlcutia inoeni.i:" ami Cyriacus, an anti­

quarian of the 15th century, who visited the ruins

of Luna, attests the same fact.

The period of the final decay of Luna is uncertain.

It was taken and plundered by the Normans in 857,

hut was probably not destroyed ; and Dante, writing

after 1300, speaks of Luni as a city that had sunk

gradually into complete decay (Par. xvi. 73); which

was doubtless accelerated by the malaria, from which

the neighbourhood now suffers severely. When it

was visited by Cyriacus of Ancona, the ruins were

still extensive anil in good preservation; but little

nuw remains. Vestiges of an amphitheatre, of a

semi-circular building which may have been a theatre,

of a circus, and piscina, as well as fragments of

columns, pedestals, &c, are still however visible.

All these remains are certainly of Human date, and

no vestiges of Etruscan antiquity have been found on

the spot. The ruins, which are obviously those of

a small town, as it is called by Strabo, are situated

ubotit 4 in. S. of Struma, aid little more than a

mile from the sea. (Dennis's Etiitria, vol. ii. pp.

78—84; Targioni-Tazzetti, Viaf/yia in Totcana,

ml. x. pp. 403 —466; Promis, Memorie delta CUla

di Lima, 4to. Turin, 1838.)

Far more celebrated in ancient times than Luna

itself was its port, or rather the magnificent gulf that

was known by that name (l'mms Li.nak, Liv., l'lin.,

&c.; JfA^nis Aujife, Strab.), now called the Gulf

ofSjxzia. Thus is well described by Strabo as one

of the largest and finest harbours in the world,

containing within itself many minor ports, and sur­

rounded by high mountains, with deep water close in

to shore. (Strab. v. p. 222; Sil. Ital. viii. 482.) He

adds, that it was well adapted for a people that had

so long iiossessed the dominion of the sea.—a remark

that must refer to the Etruscans or Tyrrhenians in

general, as we have no allusion to any naval supre­

macy of Luna in particular. The great advantages

of this port, which is so spacious as to be capable of

containing all the navies of Europe, seem to have-

early attracted the attention of the Homans ; and

long tefu.e the subjection of the mountain tribes of

Liguria was completed, they were accustomed to

make the Lunae Port us the station or rendacoiu of

their Beets which were destined either for Spain or

Sardinia. (Liv. xxxiv. 8, xxxix. 21, 32.) It must

have been on one of these occasions (probably in

company with 1L Cato) that it was visited by i'.n-

nius, who was much struck with it, and celebrated it

in the opening of his Annals (Ennius, op. Peri. Hat.

vi. 9.) At a later period it seems to bare been re­

sorted to also for it* mild and delightful climate.

(Pers. Lc.) No doubt can exist that the port of

Luna is identical with the modem Gulf if Spexia:

but it is certainly curious that it should have derived

that name from the town or city of Luna, which

was situated on the left bank of the Magra, at least

five mile* from the gulf, and separated from it. Dot i

only by tho river Magra, but by a considerable j

range of rocky hills, which divide the Gulf of Spexia

from the valley of the Magra, so that the gulf is not

even within sight of Luna itself. It is this range of

hills which at their cxtre.uily form a prwuwutory,

I called by Ptolemy, Lunao I'romontorium (X»A.^rwv

OKpov, Ptol. iii. 1. § 4), now the 1'untn iiinxca.

It is true that Stralw places Luna on the right b»nk

of the Mncra ; but this is a mere mistake, uku

certainly speaking of the Human town of Luna: it

is possible that the Etruscan city of that name may

not have occupied the same site with the l*uiian

colony, but may have been situated on the neht

bank of the Macra, but even then it would ban

been at some distance from the port. lloUtrniaa

and some other writers have endeavoured to pr^vr

that the port of Luna was situated at the immLh of

the Macra ; and it is probable that the town may

have had a small port or landing-place at ilia:

t»oint ; but the celebrated Port of Lima, described

by Strabo and extolled by Ennius, can certainly be

no other than the Gulf <f Sputa.

The Gulf of Spezin is about 7 miles in depth by

3 in breadth: it contains within itself (as justly un­

served by Strabo) several minor ports, two of which

are noticed by Ptolemy under the names of 1'oKTVa

Veneris ('A^poof-rnj Aijcije), still called Porta Ve­

ntre, and situated near the western extremity of the

gulf; and PoRTi'8 Emcis ('Eoixni nAioi). iw»

Lerici, on the E. shore of the gulf. The former

name is found also in the Maritime Itinerary. (1'luL

iii. 1. § 3; Itin. Marit. ]>. 502.) [E. H. B.]

LUNAE MONIES (2«Ai}k7ij boot Ai'eVowuu,

Ptol. iv. 8. §§ 3, 6), from which mountains, and fruiu

the lakes formed by their melting snows, Plolemy

derives the sources of the Nile. Their [uoiiua

is unknown, and if they liave any real existeis*,

they must be placed S. of the Equator. [W. B. !>.]

LUNAE PORTUS. [Li.ha.]

LUNAE PROMONTO'KIl'M (2tA«r»i ift

attpor, Ptol. ii. 5. § 4), a headland on the W. coast

of Lusitania, placed by Ptolemy 10 minutes N. U

the mouth of the Tagus, and therefore corresis'&U

to the C. da Jioca, near Cititnt, where Horudiui

found ruins of what he took for a temple of the Sio

and Moon, with inscriptions (Anti/j. Luxit. p. *,2).

Others, however, identify it with the more nnrttierQ

C. Carcoeiro; and, in fact, the accounts of the head­

lands on this coast are given in a confused manner

by the ancient writers. [P.N]

LUNA'HIl'M PKOMONTO'RIUM (A.t»a*aw

ixpov, Ptol. ii. 6. § 19: C. Turdtra, NE. of Bar­

celona), a headland on the coast of the Baetoh, in

llispaiiia Tarraconensis, formed by vuo of the .">L-

spurs of the Pyrenees. [P. S.]

LU'NtiONES. [Asti-res.]

LUNNA, in (iallia, was on a road from Lug-

dimum (Lyon) to Augustodunum (Avian), lbe

first station after Lugdunum is Asa Paulini, 15 M. P.

from Lugdunura, and theu Lunna 15 M. P. frun

Asa Paulini, according to the Antouiue Itin. [AaA

I'm uni.] In the Table it is 24 M. P. from Lug-

iliiuuin to Ludnam, as the name is written in the

Table, and Asa Paulini is omitted. Luuna and

Ludnam arc probably the same place; and tlie site ia

uncertain. [Ii. L.J

LU'PIA. [Luppia.]

LU'PIAE (Aoirriai, Strab,; Aoinrio, Pans.: Aev**-

rlai, Ptol.: Kih. Lupiensis; L*cce), an an« irnt city

of the Salentines, in lite Human province of Calabcia,

situated oa the high road from brunduaium to Hy-

druntum, and just about 25 M.P. distant from each

of these cities (/fin. AhL p. 1I8> It was about a

miles from the sea, whence Strabo correctly issscnbas

it as situated, together with Kbudiae, in the uilrnar

of Calabria (Strab. v. p. 382), though both 1'kuj ana

