LEUCAS. LEUCAS. 169

and modelled both by the Turks and Venetians.

(Vita, B.) The fort was connected with the island

by an aqueduct, serving also as a causeway, 1300

yards in length, and with 260 arches. (Plan, 5.) It

was originally built by the Turks, but was ruined

by an earthquake in 1825, and has not since been

repaired. It was formerly the residence of the Vene­

tian governor and the chief men of the island, who

kept here their magazines and the cars (&fia£at) on

which they carried down their oil and wine from the

inland districts, at the nearest point of the island.

The congregation of buildings thus formed, and to

which the inhabitants of the fortress gradually re­

tired as the seas became more free from corsairs,

arose by degrees to be the capital and seat of govern­

ment, and is called, in memory of its origin,

A noiichi CAuatiXivv). (Plan, C.) Hence the fort

alone ia properly called Santa Maura, and the capital

Amarichi; while the island at large retains its an­

cient name of Leucadia. The ruins of the ancient

town of Leucas are situated a mile and a half to

the SE. of AmaxicJii. The site is called Kaligoni,

and consists of irregular heights forming the last

falls of the central ridge of the island, at the foot of

which is a narrow plain between the heights and the

lagoon. (Plan, D.) The ancient inclosure is almost en­

tirely traceable, as well round the brow of the height

on the northern, western, and southern sides, as from

either end of the height across the plain to the

lagoon, and along its shore. This, as Leake ob-

lerves, illustrates Livy, who remarks (xxxiii. 17)

that the lower ports of Leucas were on a level close

to the shore. The remains on the lower ground are

of a more regular, and, therefore, more modern ma­

sonry than on the heights above. The latter are

prubably the remains of Nericus, which continued

to be the ancient acropolis, while the Corinthians

gave the name of Leucas to the town which they

erected on the shore below. This is, indeed, in op­

position to Strmbo, who not only asserts that the

name was changed by the Corinthian colony, but

al«o that Leucas was built on a different site from

that of Neritna. (x. p. 452). But, on the other

hand, the town continued to be called Nericns even

as late as the Pelopcnnesian War (Thuc. iii. 7); and

namerous instances occur in history of different

qnarters of the same city being known by distinct

B«nea. Opposite to the middle of the ancient city

are the remains of the bridge and causeway which

bens crossed the lagoon. (Plan, 1.) The bridge

»u rendered necessary by a channel, which per­

vade* the whole length of the lagoon, and admits

a passage to boats drawing 5 or 6 feet of water,

*hilt the other parts of the lagoon are not more  
than 2 feet in depth. The great squared blocks

*Bleh formed the ancient causeway are still seen  
sfcove the shallow water in several places on cither

ude of the deep channel, but particularly towards

the Acarnanian shore. The bridge seems to have

been kept in repair at a late period of time, there

fceiag a solid cubical fabric of masonry of more

modern workmanship erected on the causeway on

tti* western bank of the channel. Leake, from whom

this description is taken, argues that Strabo could

rerer have visited Leucadia, because he states that

inUifthmus, the ancient canal, the Homnn bridge, and

ti» city of Leacas were all in the same place; whereas

the isthmus and the canal, according to Leake, were

nesr the modern fort Santa Maura, at the distance

<* 3 miles north of the city of Leucan. But K. 0.

Natter, who is followed by Bowen and others, believe

that the isthmus and canal were a little south of

the city of Leucas, that is, between Fort Alexander

(Plan, 2) on the island, and Paleocaglia on the

mainland (Plan, 3). The channel is narrowest at

this point, not being more than 100 yards across;

and it is probable that the old capital would have

been built close to the isthmus connecting the

peninsula with the mainland. It has been con­

jectured that the long spit of sand, on which the

fort Santa Maura has been built, probably did not

exist in antiquity, and mny have been thrown up

at first by an earthquake.

Between the fort Santa Maura and the modern

town Amaxichi, the Anglo-Ionian government have

constructed a canal, with a towing-path, for boats

drawing not more than 4 or 5 feet of water. (Plan,

4.) A ship-canal, 16 feet deep, has also been com­

menced across the whole length of the lagoon from

Fort Santa Maura to Fort A lexander. This work,

if it is ever brought to a conclusion, will open a

sheltered passage for large vesAels along the Acar­

nanian coast, and will increase and facilitate the

commerce of the island. (Bowen, p. 78.)

1-

/

ff? ••

f\

- m.

r:

i \ aVttutitfkw _

111 wrS

HUa^L'-

-.,:-m

$£&•

T

*i

"tn

'1 f

9~)

i".

I

V

h( J.

r / /

/ ■

k^i

a

fe

X'

m\-u 'v4sa

s « =. ■

m

}—'

PLAN.

A. Spft of sand, which I.eake supposes to be the Isthmus.

B. Fort Santa Maura.

C. Amaxichi.

D. City of [.<■'.< .'■■..

E. Site of isthmus, Bccorriing to K. O. Muller.

1. Remains of Homan bridge.

2. Fort Alexander.

3. Paleocaglia.

A. N- u canal.

ft. Turkish aqueduct and bifdge.

Of the history of the city of Leucas we have a

few details. It sent three ships to the battle of

Salamis (Herod, viii.45); and as a colony of Corinth,

it sided with the Lacedaemonians in the Peloponne-

sian War, and was hence exposed to the hostility of

Athens. (Thuc. iii. 7.) In the Macedonian period

Leucas was the chief town of Acarnania, and the

place in which the meetings of the Acarnanian con­

federacy were held. In the war between Philip

and the Komans, it sided with the Macedonian

monarch, and was taken by the Romans after a

gallant defence, B.C. 197. (Liv. xxiiii. 17.) After

the conquest of Perseus, Leucas was separated by

the Romans from the Acarnanian confederacy.

