SEGORUNUM. 951 SEGUSIO.

JEfiODCNTJM (Xeyilowov). Ptolemy (ii. 7.

SI) talk Segndunnm the chief town of the

larai [Ruteji!], a Gallic people west of the

tow, in the Aquitania of Ptolemy. In some

nnu of Ptolemy the reading is, Segodunum or

Wormm. In the Table the name is Segodum,

:fh is probably a corrupt form; and it has the

irk of a chief town. It was afterwards called

Rutrnorum, whence the modem name Rodez,

the Areyron, in the department of Areyron. of

irk it is the chief town. [G. I..]

SEf.UDLUrjM (Sf-yoiWor), a town of sonth-

i (iermany, p: ohably in the country of the Her-

mhiri, it, according to some, the modern WOrz-

V (Ptol. ii. 11. § 29; iOmp. Wilhelm. Germa-

«,p.209.) [L.S.]

SEGOTJTIA. 1. A town of the Celtiberi in

>;a:iu Tarraconensis, 16 miles from Caesarau-

m. (/tm. Ant. pp 437,439.) Most probably iden-

u with the .Seguntia of Livy (xxxiv. 19). The

<?rr. Rmeda. according to Lapie.

!. {liyvrria njpituva. Ptol. ii. 6. § 66), a town

a'Kirdnliin HispaniuTarraconensis. [T. H. D.]

SEGONTIACI. a people in the S. part of Bri-

cu. in Bampthire. (Camden, pp. 84, 146;

n A C. r. 81; Orclli, Inter. 2013.) [T. H. R.]

sEWXTIUM. a city in the KW. part of Bri-

fca Secanda, whence there was a road to Reva.

* Inf. p. 482.) It is the modern Caernarvon,  
lUle river by which is still called Sejont.

mien, p. 798.) It is called Segnntio by the

r Rav.(v. 31). [T.H.D.]

•MORA, in Gallia, appears in the Tablo on a

I from Portus Namnetum (jVawej) to Limunum,

L»inram (Poitiert). D'Anville supposes that

■a b Brtstuire, which is on the road from

*a to J'uititn. [G. L.]

ttf.WA, in Gallia, is placed by the Antonine

.<a a road from Aquae Tarbellicae (Daz) to

•i r»'a (Bordeaux). The first station from Aquae

ktlltae is Mosconnum, or Mostomium, the site of

th a unknown. The next is Segosa, which

:*:]if fixes at a place named Etcontte or Es-

v. Bat he observes that the distance, 28

If. ieagnes, between Aquae and Segosa is less

uW distance in the Itin. [G. L.J

KOVELLAUNI. [Skqallacni.]

IWVIA (ZtyovSia, Ptol. ii. 6. § 56). 1. A

1 of the Areraci in Uispania Tarraconensis, on

fad from Kmerita to Caeaaraugusta. (/(in.

p. 4*5; Plin. iii. 3. a. 4; Flor. iii. 22.) It

exirta under the ancient name. For coins see

■ (iluL H. p. 577), Mionnet (i. p. 51, and

A i. p. 104X and Sestini (p. 196).

A town of Hi-paiiia Baetica, on the river Si-

(Hirt. B. A. 57.) In the neighbourhood

rib or the modem Perabad. [T. H. R.]

SGI'SIA'NI Ciryoauwui or 2f70uo-ia»'o!), a

c peiple. When Cafc-ar (b. c. 58) was leading

■t the Helvetii the troops which he had raised

oih Italy, he crossed the Alps and reached the

I tl - All .!..- gea. From the territory ot

n-*-n,eei he CToased the Rhone into the country

in:: "Hi aunt extra Provinciam trans

■amn primi.* (B. G. i. 10.) He therefore places

1 is the angle between the Rhone and the Savne,

• m following: the Helvetii, who had not yet

«1 tseSaoW. In another plare(vii.64)hespeaks

-e Aedui and Segusiani as bordering on the  
a*ia, and the Segusiani were dependents of the

n (vi 75). Strubo (iv. p. 186) places the

Segusiani between the Rhodanns and the Rubis

(Doubt), on which R'Anville remarks that he

ought to have placed them between the Rhone and

the Loire. But part of the Segusiani at least

were west of the Rhone in Caesar's time, as ho

plainly tells us, and therefore some of them were

between the Rhone and the Doubt, though this is a

very inaccurate way of fixing their position, for the

Doubt ran through the territory of the Sequani.

Lugdunum was in the country of the Segusiani.

[Li'GDUNi'M.] Pliny gives to the Segusiani tho

name of Liberi (iv. 18).

In Cicero's oration Pro P. Quintio (c. 25), a

Gallic people named Sebaguinos, Scbaginnos, with

several other variations, is mentioned. The reading

"Sebnsianos" is a correction of Lambinns. Baiter

(Orelli's Cicero, 2nd ed.) has written " Scgusiavos"

in this passage of Cicero on his own authority; but

there is no name Segusiavi in Gallia. It is probable

that the true reading is " Segusianos." Ptolemy (ii.

8. § 14) names Rodumna (Roanne) and Forum

Segusianoruni as the towns of the Segusiani, which

shows that the Segusiani in his time extended to

the Zot're [Rodumna]; and the greater part of

their territory was probably west of the Rhone and

Sadne. Mionnet, quoted by Ukert (Gallien, p. 320),

has a medal which he supposes to belong to the

Segusiani. [G. L.]

SKGU'SIO (leyoiaiov: Eth. 2eyov<rtav6s, Se-

gusinus : Suta), a city of Gallia Transpadana, situ­

ated at the foot of the Cottian Alps, in the valley of

the Ruria (Dora Riparia), at the distance of 35

miles from Augusta Taurinorum (7urtn). It was

the capital of the Gaulish king or chieftain Cottius,

from whom the Alpes Cottiae derived their name,

and who became, in the reign of Augustus, a tributary

or dependent ally of the Roman Empire. Hence,

when the other Alpine tribes were reduced to sub­

jection by Augustus, Cottius retained the govern­

ment of his territories, with the title of Praefectus,

and was able to transmit them to his son, M. Julius

Cottius, upon whom the emperor Claudius even con­

ferred tho title of king. It was not till after the

death of the younger Cottius, in the reign of Nero,

that this district was incorporated into the Roman

Empire, and Segusio became a Roman mnnicipal

town. (Strab. iv. pp. 179,204; Plin. iii. 20. s. 24;

Amm. Marc. xv. 10.)

It was probably from an early period the chief

town in this part of the Alps ami the capital of the

surrounding district. It is situated just at the

junction of the route leading from the Mont Genevre

down the valley of the Dora with that which crosses

the Mont Cenit; both these passages were among

the natural posses of the Alps, and were doubtless in

use from a very early period, though the latter seems

to have been unaccountably neglected by the Romans.

The road also that was in most frequent use in the

latter ages of the Republic and the early days of the

Empire to arrive at the pass of the Cottian Alps or

Mont Genevre, was not that by Segusio up the valley

of the Ruria, but one which ascended the valley of

Fenettrellet to Ocelum (Uxetm), and from thence

crossed the Col de Sestrieret to Scingomagus (at or

near Cetanne), at the foot of the actual pass of the

Genevre. This was the route taken by Caesar in

B. c. 58, and appears to have still been the one moat

usual in the days of Strabo (Caes. B. G. i. 10; Strab.

iv. p. 179); but at a later period the road by Se­

gusio seems to have come into general u>e, and is

that given in the Itineraries, (/tin. ^4nt. pp. 341,

3 p 4

