LUPODUNUM. 217 LUSI.

Ptolemy wouU lead us to suppose that it was a

maritime town, (l'lin. iii. 11. s. 16; Ptol. iii. 1.

§ 14.) Appian also speaks of Octavian as landing

there on his return to Italy, immediately after Caesar's

<i" itJi. when be halted some days at Lupine without

venturing to advance to Brundusium, until he re­

ceived fresh information from Koine. (Appian,

B. C. iii. 10.) There seems, however, no doubt

tint the ancient Lupiae occupied the same site as

the modem Lecce, though it may have bad a port

or landing-place of its own. The above passage of

Appian is the only mention of it that occurs in his­

tory; but a tradition preserved to us by Julius

Capitulinus (A/. Ant. 1.) ascribed its foundation to

a king of the Salentines, named Malennius, the son

of Dasumus. Then; is little doubt that it was

really a native Salentine city; nor is there any foun­

dation for supposing it to have received a Greek

colony. Pausanias, in a passage which has given ri.se

to much confusion, in treating of the treasury of the

Sybarites at Olympia, tells us that Sybaris was the

same city which was called in his time Lupia, and

was situated between Brundusium and Hydruutum.

(I'ius. vi. 19. § 9.) The only reasonable expla­

nation of this strange mistake is, that he con­

founded Lupia in Calabria (the name of which was

sometimes written Lopia) with the Roman colony of

Copia in Lucania, which had in fact arisen on the

kite of Tburii, and, therefore, in a manner succeeded

to Sybaris. But several modern writers (Romanelli,

Cramer, &c.) have adopted the mistake of Pausa-

uias, and afiinned that Lupiae was previously called

Snaris, though it is evidently of the well-known

city of Sybaris that that author is speaking. We

bear but little of Lupiae as a Roman town, though

it appears to have been a municipal town of some

importance, and is mentioned by all the geographers.

The u ager Lyppiensis" (sic) is also noticed in the

Liber Coloniarum; but it does not appear that it

received a colony, and the inscriptions in which it

bears tbe title of one are, in all probability, spurious.

Nor is there any ancient authority for the name of

Lycium or Lvcia, which is assigned to the city

by several local writers: this form, of which the

modern name of Lecce is obviously a corruption,

being first found in documents of the middle ages.

(Lib. Colon, p. 262; Mel. ii. 4. § 7; Itin. Ant.

t- H8-)

lite modern city of Lecce is a large and populous

place, and the chief town of the province called the

Trrra di OlranUy. No ancient remains are now

•bible; but Galateo, writing in the loth cen­

tury, tells us that there were then extensive sub­

terranean remains of the ancient city — vast arches,

revered galleries and foundations of ancient build­

ing*— upon which the modern city was in great

"leisure built. Numerous vases and other relics of

"utiijaity liave also been brought to light by exca-

tiikios, and an inscription in the Messapian dialect.

((jaUteo, de Hit. lapyg. pp. 81—86; Romanelli,

>J. ii. pp. 83—93; jloiuinsen, Cnter ItaL Dialecte,

P- 49.) [E. H. B.]

LUPUDITXUM,* place on the river Nicer(Aeciar)

ia Ssitliem Germany. (Au.son. MoteL 423; Sym-

unchus, p. 16, ed. Xiebuhr.) It is probably the

tame place as the modern Ixuienbwg on the A'eciar,

tiwagh some identify it with tbe fort which the em­

peror Valentinian built on tbe banks of the Neckar.

(Amm. Marc, xxviii. 2.) [I,. S.]

LUPPHL'RDUM (Aovra>ou0oW), a town in the

&*tb of Germany. (Ptol. ii. 11. § 28.) Its site is

generally identified with Wittenberg or Meissen; but

it seems more probable that it was situated near

l.-eiffzig, on the river Luppa, from which it may

have derived its name. [L. S.]

LU'PPIA or LU'PIA (<S Aoinrios: Lippe),a na­

vigable river in the north-Test of Germany, which

was well known to the Romans, from its sources to

the point where it empties itself into the Rhine. Its

sources are in the interior of Germany, not far from

those of the Amisia. (£mi.) (Veil. Pat. ii. 105;

Tae. Ann. i. 60, ii. 7, Hist. v. 22; Pomp. Mela, iii.

3. §3; Strab. vii. p. 291; Dion Cass. liv. 33.)

Strabo (/. c.) had a very incorrect notion of the

course of the Lupia, for he describes it as flowing

through the country of the Bructcri Minores, and as

discharging its waters, like the Amasia, into the

ocean: he, moreover, places it about 600 stadia from

the Rhine. Tacitus (Ann. ii. 7) mentions a Roman

fort bnilt on its banks. I., S. |

LU'PPIA (Aowroria), a place of considerable im­

portance in the north of Germany, between the rivers

Albis and Visnrgis, above Mons Melibocus. (Ptol.

ii. 11. § 28, viii. 6. § 3.) It is generally identified

with the modern town of Lupta. [L. S.]

LUSI (Aouo-oi, Paus., Steph. B. s. v.; AoDooi,

Aovoffoi, ra Aowrca, Schol. ad Callim. J)ian. 235;

comp. Meineke, ad Steph. B. s. v.: Eth. Aoi/iriov,

Aourreoy, Aovai&T-ns, Steph. B.; Aovattvs, Xeu.

Anab. iv. 2. § 21), a town in the north of Arcadia,

originally independent of, but afterwards subject to,

Cleitor. [Cleitor.] Lusi was situated in the

upper valley of the Aroanius. and probably on the

site of Sudhend. which stands in the NK. corner of

the valley at the foot of Mt. Khehiids (the ancient

Aroanian mountains), and on the road from Tri-

politzd to Kaldivyta. The upper valley of the

Aroanius, now called tbe plain of Sudhend, consists

of two plains, of which the more easterly is the one

through which the Aroanius flows, the waters if

which force their way through a gorge in the moun­

tains into the plain of Cleitor, now Kdtmna, to the

south. The more westerly plain of Sudhend is en­

tirely shut in by a range of hills; and the waters of

three streams which flow into this plain are carried

off by a katavd'thra, after forming an inundation,

apparently the Lacns Clitorius mentioned by Pliny

(x-.;.i. 2. s. 13). The air is damp and cold; and

in this locality the best hemlock was grown (The-

ophr. ix. 15. § 8).

Lusi was still independent in the 58th Olympiad;

since one of its citizens is recorded to have gained

the victory in the 11th Pythiad. (Paus. viii. 18.

§ 8.) Its territory was ravaged by the Aetolians

in the Social War (Polyb. iv. 18); but in the time

of Pausanias there were no longer even any ruins of

the town. (Paus. I. c.) Its name, however, was

preserved in consequence of its temple of Artemis

Lusia or Hemerasia (the "Soother "). The goddess

was so called, because it was here that the daughters

of Proetus were purified from their madness. They

had concealed themselves in a large cavern, from

which they were taken by Melampus, who cured

them by sacred expiations. Thereupon their father

Proetus founded this temple of Artemis Hemerasia,

which was regarded with great reverence throughout

the whole Peloponnesus as an inviolable asylum. It

was plundered by the Aetolians in the Social War.

It was situated near Lusi, at the distance of 40

stadia from Cynaetha. (Pans.; Polyb. /(. cc.; Cal-

lim. Dion. 233.) The interior of the temple, with

the purification of the daughters of Proetus, is re­

