MACEDONIA. 235 MACEDONIA.

Alorus, one of the murderers of Alexander, was

recent, and administered the affairs of the widowed

qunn, and those of her children, against Pausanias,

a man of the royal lineage and a pretender to the

throne. (IHod. xvi. 2; Aeschin. Fate. Legal, pp. 249,

230; Justin, vii. 6.) Iphicrates declared in favour

of Eurydice, who would have been forced to yield

the country to Pausanias, and acted so vigorously

against him as to expel him from Macedonia and

■ecure the sceptre to the family of Amyntas. (Corn.

Nen. Ipkkrat. 3.) When Philip succeeded his

brother Perdiccas, slain in battle with the Illyrians,

B. c. 360—359, no one could have foreseen the

fature conqueror of Chaemneia. and the destroyer of

Grecian liberties. In the very first year of his reign,

though only 24 years old, he laid the foundations of

the fature greatness of a state which was then almost

annihilated. His history, together with that of the

other Macedonian kings, is given in the Dictionary

of Biography. At his death Macedonia had already

become a compact empire; its boundaries had been

extended into Thrace as far as Perinthus; and the

Greek coast and towns belonged to it, while Mace­

donian ascendancy was established from the coasts

of the Propontis to those of the Ionian sea, and the

Ambracian, Messenian, and Saronic gulfs. The

empire of Alexander became a world-dominion. Ma-

c*di<nian settlements were planted almost every­

where, and Grecian manners diffused over the im-

n*nse region extending from the Temple of Ainmon

in the Libyan Oasis, and from Alexandria on the

western Delta of the Nile to the northern Alexandria

oo the Jaxartes,

III. IjaUr History till the Fall of the Empire.

At the death of Alexander a new Macedonian

kingdom arose with the dynasty of Antipater; after

the murder of the king Philippus III. (Arrhidaeus)

and Eurydice by the queen Olympias, Cassander the

son of Antipater, after having murdered the king

Alexaniler Aezus, and his mother, ascended the

throne of Macedon ; at his death his three sons, Phi­

lip, Antipater, and Alexander, successively occupied

the thmne, but their reigns were of short duration.

I'hilip wa* carried off by sickness, Alexander was

put to death by Demetrius Poliorcetes, and Antipater,

*h" bad fled for refuge to Lysimachus, was mur­  
dered by that prince. When the line of Cassander

became extinct, the crown of Macedon was the prize

for which the neighbouring sovereigns struggled, Ly-

simachua and Pyrrhus, kings of Thrace anAKpeirus,

with Demetrius, who still retained Ajjpfcs and

Thessaly, in turns, dispossessed each other of this

dbputed throne. Demetrius, however, at last over-

can* the other competitors ; and at his death trans­

mitted the kingdom to his son Antigonus, and the

-hrnastyof the Antigonidae, after many vicissitudes,  
finally established their power. The three great

irruptions of the Gauls, who made themselves masters

*»f the N, parts, and were established in Thrace and  
l*n*T Macedonia, fell within this period. Antigonus

<>:cuLts recovered the throne of desolated Macedonia;

and now secured from the irruptions of the Gauls,

sad from foreign rivals, directed his policy against

Greece, when the formation of the Aetolian, and yet

ore important Achaean league, gave rise to entirely

new relations. Antigonus, in the latter part of his

f'ign. had recourse to various means, and more espe-

tadly loan alliance with the Aetolians, for the pur*

p* si counterpoising the Achaeans. He died in

ti* eightieth year, and was succeeded by his son

Demetrius II., who waged war upon the Aetolians,

now, however, supported by the Achaeans ; and tried

to suppress the growth of the latter, by favouring

the tyrants of particular cities. The remainder of

the reign of this prince is little more than a gap in

history. Demetrius' son, Philip, was passed over,

and his brother's son, Antigonus II. sumamed Doson,

was laised to the throne. This king was occupied

most of his time by the events in Greece, when a

very remarkable revolution in Sparta, raised up a

formidable enemy against the Achaeans; and so

completely altered the relative position of affairs, that

the Macedonians from having been opponents be­

came allies of the Achaeans. Philippus V., a young,

warlike, and popular prince, was the first to come

into collision with Rome, — the war with the im­

perial city (b. c. 200—197). suddenly hurled the

Macedonian power from its lofty pitch, and by lay­

ing the foundation of Roman dominion in the East,

worked a change in almost all the political relations

there, T. Quinctius Klatninius, by offering the magic

spell of freedom, stripped Philip of his allies, and the

battle of Cynoscephalae decided everything. Soon

after, the freedom of Greece was solemnly proclaimed

at the Isthmian games; but loud ns the Greeks were

in their triumph, this measure served only to transfer

the supremacy of their country from Macedonia to

Rome. On the 22nd of June, b. c. 168, the fate of

Macedon wes decided on the field of Pydna by her

last king Perseus.

According to the system then pursued at Rome,

the conquered kingdom of Macedonia, was not im­

mediately converted into a province, but, by the

famous edicts of Amphipolis issued by the authority

of the Roman senate, the year after the conquest,

was divided into four districts. By this decree

(Liv. xlv. 29), the Macedonians were called free,—

each city was to govern itself by magistrates annu­

ally chosen, and the Romans were to receive half the

amount of tribute formerly paid to the kings, the

distribution and collection of which was probably

the principal business of the councils of the four

regions. None but the people of the extreme fron­

tiers towards the barbarians were allowed to defend

themselves by arms, so that the military power was

entirely Roman. In order to break up more effec­

tually the national union, no person was allowed to

contract marriage, or to purchase land or buildings

but within his own region. They were pernntied

to smelt copper and iron, on paying half the tax

which the kings had received; but the Romans

reserved to themselves the right of working the

mines of gold and silver, and of felling naval timber,

as well as the importation of salt, which, as the

Third Region only was to have the right of selling

it to the Dardani, was probably made for the profits

of the conquerors on the Thermaic gulf. No wonder,

that after such a division, which tore the race in

pieces, the Macedonians should compare their seve­

rance to the laceration and disjointing of an animal.

(Liv. xlv. 30.)

This division into four districts did not last longer

than eighteen years, but many tetradraehms of the

first division of the tetrarchy coined at its capital,

Amphipolis, are still extant. B.C. 149 Andriscua,

calling himself Philip son of Perseus, reconquered

all Macedonia (Lit. Epit. xlix), but was defeated

and taken in the following year, by Q. Caecilius Me-

tellus; after which the Macedonians were made tri­

butary (Porphyr. ap. Euseb. Chron. p. 178), and

the country was probably governed by a "praetor,"

