178 LIBYA. LIBYA.

western chores of India, and the eastern shores of

Africa. The extreme south point of the voyage is

the headland of Khapta, proluibly the modern Qtutoa,

in laU 10° N. (Sec Vincent's Voyage ofNearchus,

vol. ii. p. 7-4. sen;.) With their imperfect ac­

quaintance with Lihya Interior, and their miscon­

ception of its extent, it is not surprising that the

more ancient geographers should have long Instated

to which portion of the old continent Libya should

be assigned. It was sometimes regarded as an in­

dependent division of the earth, and sometimes as

part of Asia, and even of Europe. (Agathemer.

ii.; Herod, iv. 42; Varr. L. L. iv. 5; Sail. Bell.

Jngurth. 17; Lucan, Pharsat. ix. 411; Malte-

brun, Geoff, i. 27.) As the topography of the

interior is very uncertain, we shall examine rather

the general physical phenomena of this region, than

attempt to assign a local habitation to tribes who

roamed over the waste, or to towns of which the

names are doubtful and disguised, even when

genuine, by the Greek or Roman orthography of

their Libyan titles.

I. The Great Desert. — Herodotus (ii. 32, iv.

181) divides Libya N. of the equator into three re­

gions:— (1) The inhabited, which is described under

the several heads <>f Africa, Atlas, CakthA(;f.,

Cvuksk,&c. ; (2) the wildbeastterritory [Atlas];

and (:t) the Desert. These divisions correspond nearly

to the modern districts of Barbary, BUedulgeri/i,

and SahSra. The latter region {6(f>pvrj ^dtaitTjv.

Herod, iv. 181) extends from the Atlantic to Aegypt,

and is continued under the same degrees of latitude

through Arabia, A.«ia, the southern provinces of

1'ersia, to Moultan in Northern India. Contrasted

with the vale of Bitedulyerid, the rich arable districts

of Africa Propria, and especially with the well-

watered Aegypt, the Sahara is one of the most

dreary and inhospitable portions of the world. To

its real barrenness and solitude the ancients ascribed

also many fabulous terrors, which the researches of

modern travellers have dispersed. It was believed

to swarm with serpents, which, by their number and

their venom, were able to impede armies in their

inarch (Lucan, Pharsal. ix. 765): its tribes

shrieked like bats, instead of uttering articulate

sounds (Herod, iv. 183); its pestilential winds

struck with instant death men and animals, who

traversed them (Arrian, Exp. Alex. iii. 3); and its

eddies of sand buried the slain. These descriptions

are, however, much exaggerated. The Khamsin

or fifty-days' gale, as the Copts term it, the Simovm

{semen, poison) of the Arabs, blows at the summer

solstice from S. and SE. over a surface scorched by

an almost vertical sun, ami thus accumulates heat, i

which dries up all moisture, relaxes the muscular i

powers, and renders respiration difficult. But though!

it enfeebles, it does not necessarily kill. The real'

peril of the route, which from very remote ages has

lieen trodden by the caravans, lies in the scanty

supply of water, and in the obliteration of the track

by the whirlwinds of sand. (Bruce, Travels, vol. vi.

p. 458; Burckhardt, A*«Un, vol. i. p. 207.) The

difficulty of passing the Libyan Desert was, in fact,

diminished by the islands or oases, which served

as stepping-stones across it Of these oases a more

particular description is given elsewhere [Oasis],

but they are too important a feature of this region

to be quite omitted from an account of it. He-

rodotns (iv. 181) mentions a chain of these patches

of verdure extending from E. to \V. through Libya.

Sometimes they are little more than halting-

places for the caravans,—a spring of water, sur­

rounded by date-trees and a few acres of brrbs^r:

others, like the oasis of El~Khnrgrhy are s}*>.«

and populous tracts, over which nomad hordes

wander with their cattle, and a few form eiitire

provinces and kingdoms, such as Augila and Ftatm

(Regio Phazania of Ptolemy). One geoli*rkal fea­

ture is common to them all. They are not elevation

of the plain, but depressions of its limestone bi».

Into these hollows, which are composed of liirte?tiL,e

and clay, the subsoil water percolates, the periodical

rains are received, and a rich and varied vegetscwo

springs from the strong and moist earth of the ai-i*.

But even the arid waste itself is not a uniform lev* I.

It has considerable inequalities, and even hill* ttf

gravel. Probably amid the changes which our globe

has undergone, at some period anterior to the history,

if not the existence of man, the S'Juira, whose leurl

even now in not much above that of the Mediter­

ranean, was the bed of an ocean running alhwir.

the continent. Its irregular breadth and o-atlir*

favour this supposition. It is widest in the we»:eni

half of N. Africa, between the present kingdom of

Morocco and the negro country, and narrowest be­

tween the present states of Tripoli and Khassima,

where it is broken up by watery districts. As it ap­

proaches Aegypt it becomes again broader. Libya

is, indeed, a land of terraces, ascending gradually

from the three seas which bound it to central plate*as,

such as the Abyssinian highlands, the Lonae Monies,

and the Atlas chain.

Before the importation of the camel from Arar-ia

— and this animal never appears in monument* «.f

the Phanionic times—the impediments to Urg- com­

panies crossing the Sahara must have been almost

insurmountable. The camel was introduced by the

Persians: Darius succeeded in establishing his gar­

risons in the oases; and in the time of llerudctos

they were the stages of a traffic which penetrated

Libya nearly from east to west. The Desert. l»>*-

ever, was not only a road for commerce, bat itself

also productive. It exported dates, slam, and

mineral salts, which, especially in the district be­

tween El-Siwal; the ancient Ammonium, and the

Xatron lakes, cover the soil with an incruMati n

through which the foot of the camel brak* a*

through a thin coat of ice. The salt was a market­

able article with the inhabitants of Nigritia, S. of the

Sahara. The components of the salt are mnrial**,

carbonate, and sulphate of soda; and these, both m

ancient and modern times, have been extrosi\e>

employed in the operations of bleaching a:*d gU&s-

making. Libya shows few, if any, traces of Tnkraxuc

action ; and earthquakes, except in Aegypt. appear

to have been unknown. Yet, that the comment ban

undergone changes unrecorded in history, is naaiirs;

from the agatised wood found on the eastern extre­

mity of the desert in the latitude of Cairo. The

Bahr-bcta-.yfa, or river without water, is ajMrtber

proof of a change in the elevation of N. Africa.

The streams, which once filled its dry hollow<, U*»»

been violently expelled by subterranean action, and

the silex, agate, and jasper in its neighbuwrhend

indicate the agency of fire, (Newbold, 600*09. of

Aegypt, Proceed of Geolog. Society, IMS.)

It is still an unsettled question whether thm

ancient geographers were acquainted with the twin

tries 8. of the tireat Desert; Le. with the upprr

part of the river Quorra. commonly called the Sfrr

Herodotus (ii. 32) relates, on the authority «f «c«u»

Cy remans, that certain young men of the tube U

