890 MASSIANI. MASSILIA.

MASSIA'XI (Mcuratavoi, Strab. xt. p. 693), a

people who dwelt in the XE. part of India, beyond

tlie Panjiib, between the Coptics and the Indus.

They are mentioned by Strabo in connection with

the Astaceni and Aspasii, and must therefore have

dwelt along tlie mountain range to the N. of the

Kabul river. [V.]

MA'SSICUS MONS (Montt Massico), a moun­

tain, or rather range of hills, in Campania, which

fonned the limit between Campania properly so called

and the portion of Latium, south of the Liris, to

which the name of Latium Novum or Adjectum was

sometimes given. (Plin. iii. 5. s. 9.) The Massican

Hills form a range of inconsiderable elevation, which

extends from the foot of the mountain group near

Sucssa (the Mte. tli Sta, Crocs'), in a SW. direction,

to within 2 miles of the sea, where it ends in the

hill of Mondragone, just above the ancient Sinuessa.

The Massican range is not, like the more lofty

group of the Mte. di Sla. Croce or Rocca Monjina,

of volcanic origin, but is composed of the ordinary

limestone of tlie Ajiennines (Daubeny On Volcanoes,

p. 175). But, from its immediate proximity to the

volcanic formations of Campania, the soil which

covers it is in great part composed of such products,

and hence probably the excellence of its wine, which

v;is one of the most celebrated in Italy, and vied

with the still more noted Falernian. (Virg. Ceorg.

ii. 143, Aen. vii. 724; Hor. Carm. i. 1. 19, iii. 21.

5; Stt.Ital.Tii.20; Martial, i. 27. 8, xiii. Ill; Plin.

adv. 6. s. 8; Columell. iii. 8.) Yet the whole of this

celebrated range of hills does not exceed 9 miles in

length by about 2 in breadth. [E. H. It.]

MASSICYTES, MASSYCITES, or MASSICY-

TUS (MatrffiVuroj), a mountain range traversing

western Lycia from north to south, issuing in the

north, near Xysa, from Mount Taurus, and running

almost parallel to the river Xanthus, though in tlie

south it turns a little to the east. (Ptol. v. 3. § 1;

Plin. t. 28; Quint Smyra. iii. 232.) [L. S.

COIN OF MABKICYTKS.

MASSIE'XA. a town, mentioned only by Avienus

{Or. Marit. 450, seq.), situated on the south coast

of Hisjiania Tarracunenais, from which the Sinus

Massiemis derived its name. It is the bay S. of

Cartagena between C. Polos and C. Gata.

MASSIT.IA (MaffffoAio: Eth. MatHraXivrns,

Ma<rffoAi^r»7J, MaffffaAieuT. in the feminine, Mew-

iraAiwm; Mu*>iliensis: the modern name, Mar­

seille, is from the corrupted Latin. Marsilia, which

in the Provencal became Marsillo). Massalia,

which the Romans wrote Massilia, is a town of

Gallia Xarbonensis, on the coast, east of the Rhone.

Its position is represented by the French city of

Marseille, in the de|»rtment of Bottchcs-du-Rhone.

Ptolemy (ii. 10. § 8) calls Massalia a city of the

Com mi mi, whose territory he extends along the coast j

from Massalia to Forum Julii (Frtjus). He places |

Massalia in 43° 5' N. lat. ; and he makes the length .

of the longest day 15 hours, 15 minutes ; which

does not differ many minutes from the length of the {

longest day a* deduced from the true latitude of!

JtfarstiVJe, which is about 43° 18' N. lat.

The territory of Marseille, though poor, wtv-

duced some good wine and oil, and the sea abounded

in fish. The natives of the country were probably

a mixed race of Celtac and Ligures ; or the Licu-

run popidation may have extended west as tar a*

the Rhone. Stephanus (,*.r. MaaaaXta), whoa* ao-

thority is nothing, except we may understand him

as correctly citing Hecatacus, describes Massalia a? a

city of Ligvbtice in Celtice, And Strabo (it. p. 203)

observes, " that as far west as MassalU, and a liltk

further, the Salves inhabit the Alps that lie abcra

the coast and some parts of the coast itself, minified

with the Hellenes." This is doubtless the meaning

of Strabo'stextjUsGroskurd remarks (Transi. -Sfraa.

vol. i. p. 350). Strabo adds, "and the old Greeks

give to the Salyes the name of Ligyes, and to it*

country which the Massaliots possess the name of

Ligystice ; but the later Greeks name them Celto-

ligyes, and assign to them the plain country as far

as the Rhodanus and the Drueiitia." Massalia. then,

appears to have been built on a coast which waa

occupied by a Ligurian people.

The inhabitants of the Ionian town of Phoraea in

Asia, one of the most enterprising maritime states <<"

antiquity, showed their countrymen the way to the

Adriatic, to Tyrrhenia, Iberia, and to Tarteacoiv

(Herod, i. 163). Herodotus says nothing of tf*eir

visiting Celtice or the country of the Celtac The

story of the origin of Massalia is preserved by Aristotle

(ap.AOtm.xui. p. 576) in his history of the polity of

the Massilienscs. Euxenus, a Phocaean, wa* a frv-Dd

of Xannus, who was the chief of this part of thr

coast. Xannus, being about to marry his daughter,

invited to the feast Euxenus, who happened to

have arrived in the country. Xow the marriage

was after the following fashion. The young wun.aa

was to enter after the feast, and to give a cup of wme-

and water to the suitor whom she preferred ; and th-

man to whom she gave it was to I* her liu-bund.

The maid coming iu gave the cup, either bjr cham

or for some reason, to Euxenus. Her Dame was

Petta. The father, who considered the giving of tha

cup to be according to the will of the deity, consent**!

that Euxenus should havo Petta to wife; and Eu­

xenus gave her the Greek name Aristoxena. It ia

added, that there was a family in Massalia, up to

Aristotle's time, named Protiadae, for Prutia waa a

son of Euxenus and Aristoxcua,

Justin (xliii. 3, &c), the enitomiser of Tragus

Pompeius, who was either of Gallic or Ligurian

origin, for his ancestors were Voeontii, tells the story

in a somewhat different way. He fixes the time of

the Phoeaeans coming to Gallia in the reign of Tar*

quinius, who is Tarquiniua Prisons. The Phoraeana

first entered the Tiber, and, making a treaty with tha

Roman king, continued their voyage to the farthest

bays of Gallia and tlie mouths of the Rhone. Thwj

were pleased with the country, and returning to

Phocaea, induced a greater number of Phoraeana to

go with them to Gallia. The commanders of Use

fleet were Simna and Protis. Plutarch also (£oicsa,

c 2.) names Protos the founder of Mawalia. Simos

and 1'rolis introduced themselves to Nannua, king caf

the Segobrii or Segobrigii, in whose trmtoriea tLvf

wished to build a city. Nannua was busy at that

time with preparing for the marriage of his daughter

Cyptis, and the strangers were politely invited to the

marriage feast. The choice of the young wican

for her husband fell on Protis; but the cup »bua

she offered him contained only water. From this fart,

insignificant in itself, a modem writer deduce* tha

