ROMA. KOMA. 777

*ct*J npoo it (M. ix. 46), &c But that it had |

ahar appears from the circumstance that sacri-

« of lire fish taken in the Tiber were here made

» VaJean, m propitiation fur human souls. (Kestus

i ■ ■ UarU l.wii. p. 238, MM.) Another factwhich

v*> il to have been an open space, and at the same

» Mods to direct us to its site, is the lotus-tree

ad grew upon it, the roota of which are said to

i« pFDrtrated as tar as the forum of Caesar, which,

»r»haJl show in its proper section, lay a little N.

the Forum Roman um, ** Verum altera lotos

Viksaafi, quod Bomuiua constituit ex victoria de

urbt intelligitur, ut auctor est

ejus in forum usque Caesaris

■ tuz»Mw* municipiomm penetrant" (Plin. xvi.

) From which passage — whatever may be

ssjht of the tale of the tree — we deduce these

J - that the Vulranal existed in the time of

b* . that it had occupied the same spot from time

wanonaJ; that it could not have been at any

f press distance from the forum of Caesar, other-

»la* roots of the tree could not possibly have

-tad thither. Let those consider this last cir-  
a'snrv who hold with Canina that the comitiuin

■a taw south aide of the forum; or even with

■es sod Becker that it was on the east. The

ma.it originally have occupied a considera-

wate it is represented as having served for

■at of essvnJtation between Romulus snd Tatius,

i tiasr respective senates. (Dionys. ii. 60; Pint

»- 10.) its extent, however, seems to have been

of time, since the Graecostasis

area; a fact which appears from

Aedea Concordiae, built by Fla-

*i facing ** in area VuIrani " (ix. 46); whilst  
f *ays that it waw on the Graecoatasis ('' aedicu-

aereasa (Concordiae) fecit in Graecostasi, quae

wfra comitium erst," xxxiii. 6); whence the

of the Vulcanal may be further deduced;

r«e know that the Graecostasis adjoined the

isj :h+ latter, as will be shown presently, lay

* S saie of the forum. Hence the Vulcanal  
I **i tare been close to the curia and forum;

m a ran back in a N. direction towards the

if wjimjlfj occupied by the Forum Caesaris.

• t' u further confirmed by the Xotttt'a, which

I Cat Area. Vutaaxu, as well as the Tempi urn

Baa* and Basilica Paulli in the 4th Kegio.

w aaawad says (Retptmen, p. 128), that the

poaaa'hJj be mentiuned in its right place

- iii it stood immediately over the forum in  
-V VMurhotxi of the temple of Faustina, where  
i Carat Hoatilia stood; but his only reason for

saartaai as Becker's dictum respecting the

sni at p. 2S6, of which we have already seen

k > Jige cocnitium, then, would occupy that

f taw from which bay immediately under the

■aJ, Bribe W. part of it»N. side; a situation which

braaal br other evidence. bionysius says that,

w.m«ct-aeax uf Romulus, it was in the most

tjtmm part of tba forum (#V t*> tyaypwrarigt

PBjj, IL 29), a description which corresponds

»ut wsua the* site proposed. Livy (i. 36)

fcu tne stxtoe? of Ai tins Navius was on the

i taw auanitiiup on the Uft of the curia, whence

r a* wawrrnd tbavt the comitiuin extended on

uto ^ ife* curia. Pliny (xxxiv. 11) speak-

LSb, —k> statue, says that it stood before

is, and that its basis was burnt in the same

•.-. cwbumed that building when the body of

Hence, we are led to suppose that the comitiuin

occupied a considerable part of the N. side of the

forum; but its exact limits, from the want of satis­

factory evidence, we are unable to define. It must

have been a slightly elevated place, since we hear

of its having steps; and its fonn was probably cur­

vilinear, as Pliny (xxxiv. 12) speaks of the statues

of Pythagoras and Alcibiades being at its horns (" in

cornibus Comitii"); unless this merely alludes to the

angle it may have formed at the corner of the forum.

It has been sometimes erroneously regarded as

having a roof; a mistake which seems to have

arisen from a misinterpretation of a passage in Livy,

in which that author says that in b. c. 209 the

i omitium was covered for the first time since Han­

nibal had been in Italy (" Eo anno priinum, ex quo

Hannibal in Italiam venisset, cotnitium tectum esse,

memoriae proditum est," xxvii. 36). Hence, it was

thought, that from this time the comitium was

covered with a permanent roof. But Piale (del

Foro Rom. p. 15, seq.) pointed out that in this

manner there would be no sense in the words "for

the first time since Hannibal was in Italy," which

indicate a repeated covering. The whole context

shows that the historian is alluding to a revived ce­

lebration of the Roman games, in the usual fashion;

and that the covering is nothing more than the vela

or canvas, which on such occasions was spread over

the comitium, to shade the spectators who occupied

it from the sun. That the comitium was an open place

is evident from many circumstances. Thus, the pro­

digious rain, which so frequently falls in the nar­

rative of Livy, is described as wetting it (Liv.

xxxiv. 45; Jul. Obseq. c. 103), and troops are re­

presented as marching over it. It was here, also,

that the famous Kuminalis Arbor grew (Tac. Ann.

xiii. 58), which seems to have been transplanted

thither from the Palatine by some juggle of Attius

Navius, the celebrated augur (Plin. xv. 20; ap.

Bnnsen, Let Forum de Rom. p. 43, *eq.), though

we can by no means accede to Bunsen's emendation

of that passage.

The principal destination of the comitium was

for holding the comitia curiata, and for hearing

lawsuits ('' Comitium ab eo quod coibant eo, co-

mitiis curiatis, et litium causa," Var. L. L. v. § 155,

Mull.), and it must, therefore, have been capable of

containing a considerable number of persons. '1 he

comitia centuriata, on the other hand, were held in

the Campus Martius; and the tributa on the forum

proper. The curiata were, however, sometimes held

on the Capitol before the Curia Culabra. The comi­

tium was also originally the proper place for contiones,

or addresses delivered to the assembled people. All

these customs caused it to be regarded as more

honourable and important than the forum, which at

first was nothing more than a mere market-place.

Hence, we frequently find it spoken of as a more

distinguished place than the forum; and seats upon

it for viewing the games were assigned to per­

sons of rank. Its distinction from the forum, as

a place of honour for the magistrates, is clearly

marked in the following passage of Livy, describing

the alarm and confusion at Kome after the defeat at

Trasiinene: "Komae ad primum nnntium cladia

ejus cum ingenti terrors ac tumultu concursus m

forum populi est fact us. Matronae vagae jer vias,

quae repens clades adlata, quaere fortuna cxercitus

esset, obvit* percontantur. Et quum frequeutis

contionis modo turba in comitium et curiam versa

magistrates vocareC &c. (xxil 7). When not oc-

