MESSANA. 337 MESSANA.

calls it a very great and very rich city (" civitas

maxima et locupletissima," Verr. v. 17), and extols

the advantages of its situation, its port, and its

buildings. (/»• iv. 2.) Like all other allied cities,

it had its own senate and magistrates, and was

legally subject to no other contributions than the

furnishing ships and naval supplies in case of vrar,

and the contributing a certain proportion of the com

famished by Sicily to Rome at a given rate of re­

muneration. (/J. v. 17—22.) Nor does Messana

appear to have suffered severely from any of the wars

that caused such ravages in Sicily, though it nar-

iwriy escaped being taken and plundered by Athenion

daring the Servile War, B.C. 101. (Dion Cass.

lr. Val. p. 534.) In the Civil War, B. c. 48, it

was the station of a part of the fleet of Caesar, which

was attacked there by that of Pompey under Cassius,

aad the whole of the ships, thirty-five in number,

Inrnt; but the city itself was protected by the

^raence of a Roman legion. (Caes. B. C. iii. 101.)

At a somewhat later period it was the head-quarters

and chief stronghold of Sextus Pompeius during his

war with Octavian, B. c. 36; and its capacious har­

bour became the station of the fleet with which he

croimanded the coasts of Sicily, as far as Tau-

rsmenium on the one side and Tvndaris on the

other. It was from thence also that Pompeius,

after the total defeat of his fleet by Agrippa, made

Ins escape with a squadron of only seventeen ships.

(Appian, B. C. v. 97, 103, 109, 122; Dion Cass.

ilix. 1—12; Strab. vi. p. 268.)

It w»» in all probability in consequence of this

wjr that Messana lost the privileged condition it had

§o long enjoyed; but its inhabitants received in ex­

change the Roman franchise, and it was placed in

the ordinary position of a Roman municipium. It

«J1 continued to be a flourishing place. Strabo

■peaks of it as one of the few cities in Sicily that

were in his day well peopled ; and though no sub­

sequent mention of it is found in history under the

Roman Empire, it reappears during the Gothic wars

»s one of the chief cities and most important for­

tieses in the island, — a rank it had undoubtedly

held throughout the intervening period. (Strab. vi.

p. 268; Plin. iii. 8. s. 14; Ptol. iii. 4. § 9; Mel. ii.

". § 16: Procop. B. G. i. 8, iii. 39.) The wine of

tfce neighbourhood of Messana, known as Vinum

Mamertinum, enjoyed a great reputation in the days

of Pliny; it was first brought into vogue by the

dictator Caesar. (Plin. xiv. 6. s. 8.)

Throughout the vicissitudes of the middle ages

Vctma continued to be one of the most important

cities of Sicily; and still ranks as the second city in

the iiland. It baa, however, but few remains of

■ :: |oity. The only vestiges arc some baths and

teaaebued pavements, and a small old church, sup-

f«d to have formed part of a Roman basilica.

(Sonth'i Sicily, p. 118.) Another church, called

S Cionmni dt' Fiorentini is believed, but wholly

without authority, to occupy the site of the Sa-

'Mrium or family chapel of Ileitis, from which

Vtrra purloined a bronze statue of Hercules, atta­

inted to Myron, and one of Cupid, which was be-

l*v»d to be the work of Praxiteles. (Cic. Verr. iv.

!,3.)

Tb* celebrated port of Messana, to which the city

"wl it* chief importance in ancient as well as

■■don times, is formed by a projecting spit or

fc*TM *i sand, which carves round in the form of a

ct***M or sickle (whence the name of Zancle was

wpprweri t0 ^ QeriTed^ and constitutes a natuml

mole, rendering the harbour within perfectly secure.

This singular bulwark is called by Diodorus ihe

Acte ('A*T7]), and its construction was attributed

by fable to the giant Orion (Dial. iv. 85), though

there can be no doubt of its being of perfectly

natural formation. The harbour within is said by

Diodorus to be capable of containing a fleet of 600

ships (xiv. 56), and has abundant depth of water,

even for the largest ships of modern days. The

celebrated whirlpool of the Charybdis is situated

just outside the Acte, nearly opposite the modern

lighthouse, but out of the track of vessels entering

the harbour of Messina. (Smyth's Sicily, p. 123.)

Though the city itself is built close to the harbour

on level ground, immediately at the back of it rise

steep hills, forming the underfalls of a range of

mountains which extends from the neighbourhood

of Cape Pelorus to that of Tauromenium. This

ridge, or at least the part of it next to Cape Pelorus,

was known in ancient times as the Mons Neitu-

nius; but a part of the same range forming one of

the underfalls near Messana is called, both by Dio­

dorus and Polybius, the Chalcidic mount (to XoXki-

SiKbv Oftos, Pol. i. 11; 6 \6<pos 6 KaXovfttvos Xa\-

kiSikos, Diod. xxiii. 1), and was the position oc­

cupied by Hieron of Syracuse when he laid siege to

Messana, u. c. 264. But neither this, nor the posi­

tion taken up by the Carthaginians at the same

time at a place called Sunes or Kunes (Xfrtifj

Pol.; Eitvus, Diod.), can be identified with any

degree of certainty.

The coins of Messana are numerous and interest­

ing, as illustrating the historical vicissitudes of the

city. There exist:—1.Coins of Zancle, before the time

of Anaxilas, with the name written in old characters

AANKAE, a dialectic form of the name. 2. Coins

of Messana, with the Ionic legend ME22ENION,

and types taken from the coins of Samos. These

must be referred to the period of Anaxilas imme­

diately after his conquest of the city, while the

Samian colonists still inhabited it. 3. Coins of

Messana, with the type of a hare, which seems to

have been adopted as the ordinary symbol of the

city, because that animal is said to have been first

introduced into Sicily by Anaxilas. (Pollux, Onorn. v.

75.) These coins, which are numerous, and range

over a considerable period of time, show the gradual

preponderance of the Doric element in the city ; the

ruder and earlier ones having the legend in the Ionic

form ME22ENION, the latter ones in the Doric

COINS OF MESSANA.

