412 NEAPOLIS. 'NEAPOLIS.

proximity, translated in erar version, " a teacher of

lies" (ii. 18). The time when it assumed its new

name, which it still retains almost uncorrupted in

Nablits, is marked by the authors above cited and

by the coins. Pliny died during the reign of Titus,

under whom Josephus wrote, and the earliest coins

bearing the inscription +AAOTI. NEAIIOA. 5AMAP.

are of the same reign.

Sichem is an exceedingly ancient town, and is

frequently mentioned in the history of the earliest

patriarchs. It was the first place of Abraham's

sojourn on coming into the land of Canaan, and there

he built an altar to the Lord. {Gen. \ii. 6.) The

connection of Jacob with the place is marked by the

traditionary well still called by his name, and referred

to as an undoubtedly authentic tradition, eighteen

centuries ago, — that is, at the expiration of about

half the period that has elapsed since the time of the

patriarch {Gen. xxxiii. 18, xxxiv.; St. Juhn, iv. 5,

6, 12); nor need the authority of the other local

tradition of Joseph's tomb be questioned, as he waa

certainly deposited there on the coming in of the

Israelites, and the reverence paid by them to their

fathers' sepulchres forbids us to suppose that it

could fall into oblivion. {Gen. 1. 25; Josh, xxxiv.

32.) That tomb was probably situated in the

u parcel of a field" where Jacob had spread his tent,

which he had bought of the children of Hamor,

Sheehcms' father, for a hundred pieces of money, but

which the patriarch himself represents as taken

(probably recovered) " from the Amorites with his

sword and with his bow" {Gen. xlviii. 22), and

which he retained as pasture-ground for his cattle

after his removal from that vicinity (xxxvii. 12—14).

In the division of the land, it fell to the tribe of

Ephraim, and is described as situated in Mount

Ephraim; it was a Levitical city, and one of the

three cities of refuge on the west of Jordan. {Josh.

xx. 7, xxi. 20, 21.) There it was that Joshua

assembled the national convention shortly before his

death (xxiv. 1,25); at which time " he took a groat

stone and set it np there under an oak, that waa by

the sauctoary of the Lord " (ver. 26), proving that the

tabernacle was then at Shechem, probably in the

identical place, the memory of which the Samaritan

tradition has perpetuated to this day. [Ebal;

Qbbizdl] The pillar erected by Joshua continued

to be held in veneration throughout the time of the

Judgea; there the Shechemites "made Abimelech

king, by the plain (|| oak) of the pillar that was in

Sliecliem," — his own birthplace, and the scene of his

father Gideon's victory over the Midianites {Judges,

vii. 1, viii. 31, ix. 6); and there it was that the Is­

raelites assembled to inakeJfehoboam king. (1 Kings,

xii. 1; 2 Chron. x. 1.) The remainder of ita

history is so identified with that of ita sacred Mount

Gerizim that it has been anticipated under that

article. There can be little doubt that this is the

city of Samaria mentioned in the Acts of the Apostles,

where Philip preached with such success, and which

furnished to the Church one of its earliest and

most dangerous adversaries, and its first and most

distinguished apologist. Not that Simon Magna

was a native of Neapolis, but of a village of Samaria

named Gitton (Titti**, Just Mart. ApoL L 36;

comp. Euscb. //. E. ii. 13), but Neapolis was the

principal theatre of his sorceries. Justin Martyr was

a native of tile city, according to Eusebius (airo

*Aaiu'as viai v6\tu\ Svptai rijj naKatmivTji. Hist.  
EccUs. ii. 13). Si h. in is placed by Eusebius and

St. Jerome, x.M.P.froui Shiio, which agrees well with

the interval between Silim and Nablis. (<

s. r. 3n\ti.) Hut it must lie observed, that these

authors distinguish between theSychem of Ephraim,

near the sepulchre of Joseph,— which, having been

destroyed and sown with salt by Abimelech. »u

restored by Jeroboam (comp. Judges, ix- 45, with

1 Kings, xii. 25), who, Josephus says, built hi* palace

there {Ant. viii. 8. § 4),—and the city of refuge a

Mount Ephraim, which they assign to Managers:,

and, with strange inconsistency, immediately identify

with the preceding by the fact that Joseph'a bones

were buried there. (Onomast. s. v. 2vx«V) The

author of the Jerusalem Itinerary places it xL M. P.

from Jerusalem.

The modern town of Nablits is situated in a valley

lying between Mount Ebal on the N., and Mount

Gerizim on the S., giving to the valley a directioa

from E. to W. On the E., the Mabiis valley opens

into a much wider valley, about 2 miles from the

town ; this valley is called Erd-Mukhna Where the

Nablits valley meets the Erd-Mukhna, at the NE.

base of Mount Gerizim, is Jacob's well, and, hard by

the well, is the traditionary site of Joseph's tenth,

both of them close to the Moslem village of Askar,

situated at the SE. base of Mount Ebal. 1'oaeiUy

this Askar may mark the site of ancient Sychar. the

names present only an anagratntnatical vari*i>eL

This would satisfy the language of Eusebius and St.

Jerome, cited at the commencement of the article,

and remove the obvious difficulty of supposing the

well so far distant from the city as is Nabiii, par­

ticularly as Nablits abounds with running stream,

and there are copious- fountains between it and the

well. One of these, not noticed by any traveller,

situated about mid-way between the well and the

town, in the middle of the valley, is called 'Aim

Daphne, so named, no doubt, at the time warn

Greeks inhabited Neapolis, from the iiifamsss)

fountain and grove near Antioch. The modrra

Nablits is a large and well-built town, enntaianssr a

population of from 12,000 to 14,000 souls, almost

entirely Mohammedans; the Samaritans havinsr beast

reduced to something under 200 of all ages ani U*h

sexes. (Haumer, I'alast'ma, pp. 144—14*), notes;

Robinson, Bib. Res. vol. iii. pp. 95—136.)

The coins of Neapolis are very frequent under the

emperors from Titus to Volusianns. The enssssssx

inscription is +A. Nf ACnOA6<z)C, more rarely

♦AAOT, as in the one below, in which is also added.

as in many examples, the name of the regies. The

more usual emblem on the reverse is a temple sib

on the summit of a mountain, to which is i

by many steps. The temple is doubtless that:

tioned bv Damasiua as Aibr 'IMiffTov

ieoir (nil. I'hot. liibl. p. 1055). the steps

alluded toby the Bordeaux Pilgrim in A. D. 333; —

"Ascenduntur usque ad summum montem grades*

nutnero occ." On the coins of Tit us, bowrar,

before the Mount Gerizim was introduced, a palm, ea

in the example below, was the type; or a laurel, with

coix or HEAroLU a r.tusTtxm.

