980

S1CILIA.

time, next to Agrigentum and Syracuse, probably

the most flourishing city in Sicily, but it was wholly

unprepared for defence, and was taken after a siege

of only a few days, the inhabitants put to the sword

or made prisoners, and the walls and public build­

ings razed to the ground (l)iod. xiii. 54—58).

From thence Hannibal turned his amis against Hi-

niera, which was able to protract its resistance some­

what longer, but eventually fell also into his power,

when in order to avenge himself for his grandfathers

defeat, he put the whole male population to the

sword, and so utterly destroyed the city that it was

never again inhabited (Id. xiii. 59—62),

After these exploits Hannibal returned to Carthage

with his fleet and army. But his successes had

now awakened the ambition of the Carthaginian

people, who determined upon a second invasion of

Sicily, and in b. c. 406 sent thither an army still

larger than the preceding, under the command of

Hannibal. Agrigentum, at this time at the very

highest point of its power and opulence, was on

this occasion the first object of the Carthaginian

arms, and though the citizens had made every pre­

paration for defence, and in fact were enabled to

prolong their resistance for a period of eight months

they were at length compelled by famine to surren­

der. The greater part of the inhabitants evacuated

the citv. which shared the fate of Sclinus and Hi-

mum (Diod. xiii. 81, 91).

Three of the principal Greek cities in Sicily had

thus already fallen, and in the spring of B. c. 405,

Hiinilco, who had succeeded Hannibal in the com­

mand, advanced to the attack of Gela. Meanwhile

the power of Syracuse, upon which the other cities

had in a great degree relied for their protection, had

been in great measure paralysed by internal dissen­

sions: and Dionysius now availed himself of these

to raise himself to the possession of despotic power.

Bat his first operations were not more successful

than those of the generals he replaced, and after an

ineffectual attempt to relieve Gela, he abandoned

both that city and Camarina to their fate, the inha­

bitants of both emigrating to Leontini. Dionysius

was able to fortify himself in the supreme power at

Syracuse, and hastened to conclude peace with Hi-

mi leo upon terms which left the Carthaginians undis­

puted masters of nearly half of Sicily. In addition

to their former possessions, Selinus, Himera, and

Agrigentum were to be subject to Carthage, while

the inhabitants of Gela and Camarina were to be

allowed to return to their native cities on condition

of becoming tributary to Carthage (Diod. xiii.

114.)

From this time Dionysius reigned with undisputed

authority at Syracuse fur a period of 38 years

(n. c. 405 — 367), and was able at his death to

transmit his power unimpaired to his son. But

though he raised Syracuse to a state of great power

and prosperity, and extended his dominion over a

large part of Sicily, as well as of the adjoining part

of Italy, bis reign was marked by great and sudden

changes of fortune. Though he had dexterously

availed himself of the Carthaginian invasion to

establish his power at Syracuse, he had no sooner

consolidated his own authority than he began to

turn his thoughts to the expulsion of the Carthagi­

nians from the island. His arms were, however, di­

rected in the first instance against the Chalcidic

cities of Sicily, Naxos, Catana, and Leontini, all of

which successively fell into his power, while he ex­

tended hU dominions over a great part of the Sicel

SIC

communities of the mte

effected these conquests,

parations for war, by e

the fortifications of Syr

mous fleet, that he proc

Carthage,B.C.397. His

sudden : almost all the

added to the Carthagin

favour, and he carried

extreme W. point of Sit

chief strongholds of tl

into his bands after a lo

(b. c. 396) the state t

who landed in Sicily i

recovered Motya and

taken by Dionysius, 1

coast of the island to

assault and utterly des

compelled to shut bur

Syracuse, where he wa:

but a sudden pestilence

thaginian camp reduce

Straits that Himilco w;

capitulation and retir

—76). Hostilities wi

b. c 393, but with

the peace concluded

392) seems to have lei

state as before. In b.

between Dionysias and

two great battles, wit

sides, a fresh treaty w

river Halycus was <

between the two pow

though often infringed

several successive treat

forming from hencefoi

marcation between tin

power in Sicily (Diod.

(For a more detailed

sins and his wars wil

article Dionysus in t

The same events are

vol. x. ch. 81, 82, anc

Several important

origin from the reign

revolutions which th

Among these were T.

the place and not fai

Naxos, which had be

sius: Tyxdaris, foi

on the X. coast of the

principally of Messei

same part of Sicily,

Archonides; and Lu

joining the port and |

miles S. of Motya, tb<

of the principal Cart;

in the island.

The power of Syi

eastern half of Sici

consolidated by the e:

broken up by the feeb

of his son. Only te

father (b.c. 357), Di

of only a few hundre

the standard of revo

of Syracuse soon flo

welcomed into the sj

the citizens, Dionyi

time, but the island-

