SIPIA. SIPYLUS. 1011

lyoum B. sben he speaks of S.'«>iw toti)-

r.

*ptaos possessed a city of the same name (Ptol.  
IS. j 31), and also two other towns, Apollonia

1 lfiooa, mentioned only by Stephanus B. The

ml city occupied the same site as the modern

Lolled Ktutron or Seraglio, which lies upon

*<ltm side of the island. There are some re-  
:i A the indent walls; and fragments of marble

(aid, with which, as we hare already seen, the

in- tuijdingi in antiquity were decorated. A

[t of maintains, about 3000 feet in height, runs

■ Spates from SE. to NW.; and on the high

al between this mountain and the eastern side

»jsuoid, about 10HX) feet above the sea, lie five

•nkets, of which Stavri is the principal. These

(n i.main from 4000 to 5000 inhabitants;

tlx town of Ktutron about another 1000. The

it ii healthy, and many of the inhabitants

.ij i <r«st age. The island is well cultivated,

dies not produce sufficient food for its popu-

» uid accordingly many Siphnians are obliged

if me. sad are found in considerable numbers in

b, Smyrna, and Constantinople. (Toumefort,

if, <ic. vol. i. p. 134, seq. transl.; Fiedler,

>. nd. ii. p. 125, seq.; Bass, Reitc auf den

A liueU, voL i. p. 138, seq.)

cone or sipicios.

1A, in Gallia, is placed by the Table on a

ram Condate ( Rennet) to Juliom.igus(/ln'/enr).

face from Condate to Sipia is xvi. and this

» brings as to a little river Seehe at a place

IVwcae, the Vi being probably a corruption

tun. The same distance xvi. measured from

t» brings na to Combaristam (Combre") on the

iaacrs. But see the article Combaiustum.

ri« is a branch of the Vilaau (D'Anvillc,

•V) [G. L.]

ATVM, or SIPUNTUM, but in Greek al-

UT'S (Itwovs -ovrros: Kth. Xnrovmoi, Si-

• Mo Maria at Siponto), a city of Apulia,

> o the coast of the Adriatic, immediately S.

fr-at promontory of Garganus, and in the

t tie deep bay formed by that promontory

";- loogalion of the coast of Apulia. (Strab.

1) This bay in now called the Gulf of

•"■•a, from the city of that name which is

within a few miles of the site of Sipontum.

taJos, or Crrraro, and the Candelaro fall

> bay a abort distance S. of Sipontum, and

their mouth an extensive lagune or salt-

aj (tTouaXifirn, Strab. /. c.).now called the

•Sodso. Like most places in this part of

he foundation of Si poo turn was ascribed to

Xrab. I c): but with the exception of this

obscure tradition, which probably means

than that the city was one of thine belonging

■sniaa tribe of Apulians, we have no ac-

ita being a Greek colony. The name is

uiegnis in form to others in this part of

Italy (Hydruntum, Butuntum, &c.); and its Greek

derivation from cvprla, a cuttle-fish (Strab. I.e.), is

in all probability fictitious The Greek form Si pus,

is adopted also by the Roman poets. (Sil. Ital. viii.

633; Lucan. v. 377.) The only mention of Sipontum

in history before the Roman conquest is that of its

capture by Alexander, king of Epirus, about n. c

330. (Liv. viii. 24). Of the manner in which it

passed under the yoke of Rome we have no account;

but in u. c. 194 a colony of Roman citizens was

settled there, at the same time that those of Salemum

and Bnxentum were established on the other sea.

(Liv. xxxiv. 45.) The lands assigned to the colo­

nists are said to have previously belonged to the

Arpani, which renders it probable that Sipontum

itself had been merely a dependency of that city.

The new colony, however, does not seem to have

prospered. A few years later (u.c. 184) we are

told that it was deserted, probably on account of

malaria; hut a fresh body of colonist* was sent

there (Liv. xxxix. 22), and it seems from this time

to have become a tolerably flourishing town, and was

frequented as a seaport, though never rising to any

great consideration. Its principal trade was in

com. (Strab. vi. p, 284; Mel. ii. 4. § 7; Plin. iii.

11. s. 16; Ptol. iii. 1. § 16; Pol. x. 1.) It is, how­

ever, mentioned apparently as a place of some im­

portance, during the Civil Wars, being occupied

by M. Antonius in B. c. 40. (Appian, B. C. r.

56; Dion Cass, xlviii. 27.) We learn from in­

scriptions that it retained its municipal govern­

ment and magistrates, as well as the title of a

colony, under the Roman Empire (Mommscn, Inter.

R. If. 927—929); and at a later period Paulus

Diaconus mentions it as still one of the " urbes

satis opulentae" of Apulia. (P.Diac llitU Lung. ii.

21.) Lucan notices its situation immediately at the

foot of Mount Garganus ('■ subdita Sipus montibus,"

Lucan, v. 377). It was, however, actually situated

in the plain and immediately adjoining the marshes

at the mouth of the Candelaro, which must always

have rendered the site unhealthy; and in the middle

ages it fell into decay from this cause, till in 1250

Manfred king of Naples removed all the remaining

population to a site about a mile and a half further

N., where he built a new city, to which he gave the

name of Hanfrtdonia. No ruins of the ancient city

are now extant, but the site is still marked by an

ancient church, which bears the name of Sta Maria

di Siponto, and is still termed the cathedral, the

archbishop of Manfredonia bearing officially the

title of Archbishop of Sipontum. (Craven's Southern

Tour, p. 67; Romanelli, voL ii. p. 209.) The name

of Sipontum is found in the Itineraries (/'.•. Ant.

p. 314; Tab. Pent.), which give a line of road pro­

ceeding along the coast from thence to Barium,

passing by the Salinae at the mouth of the Palus

Salapina, and therefore following the narrow strip of

beach which separated that lagune from the sea.

There is still a good horse-road along this beach; but

the distances given in the Itineraries are certainly

corrupt. [E. H. B.]

SI'PYLUS (Sfwt/Aoi), a mountain of Lydia be­

tween the river Hermus and the town of Smyrna; It

is a branch of Mount Tmolns, running in a north­

western direction along the Hermus. It is a rugged,

much torn mountain, which seems to owe its present

form to violent convulsions of the earth. The

mountain is mentioned even in the Iliad, and was

rich in metal. (Horn. //. xxiv. 615; Stnib. i. p. 58,

xii. p. 579, xiv. p .680.) On the eastern slope of the

3 T 8

