NAXOS. NAXOS. 405

rsltble tlai, tomity to their neighbours at Messana

w i KrunjE motive in inducing them to join the

Attains: mJ during the hostilities that ensued, the

bacons hiving on one occasion, in B.C. 425,

caknuUeo attack upon Naxos both by land and

»'\ the Suians vigorously repulsed them, and in

aw tors inflicted heavy loss on the assailants. (Id.

Oi (cession of the great Athenian expedition to

Srihfac.415), the Naxians from the first espoused

urt tUiicce. even while their kindred cities of

ISyiao ud Catana held aloof; and not only fur-

:«W tbatn with supplies, but received them freely

Hi tto city (Diod. xiii. 4; Thuc. vi. 50). Hence

i m iLXkxoi that the Athenian fleet first touched

itocrating the straits; and at a later period the

'its ud Catanaeans are enumerated by Thu-

«Ua h the only Greek cities in Sicily which

sad wiu, the Athenians- (Thuc. vii. 57.) After

(■» Un of this expedition the Chakidic cities

*n htarally involved for a time in hostilities with  
farat; bat these were suspended in B.C. 409, by

differ which seemed to threaten all the Greek

««• life from the Carthaginians. (Diod. xiii. 56.)

TW pottioa on this occasion preserved the Naxians

fci uW 6tt« which befell Agrigentum, Gela, and

'«raa; bat they did not long enjoy this immu-

*»• In a.c 403, Dionysins of Syracuse, deeming  
wrare from the power of Carthage as well

■ fr« domestic sedition, determined to turn his

*»oirst theChalcidic cities of Sicily; and having  
Ski iasarif master of Naxos by the treachery of

^*p«sn,l Procks, he sold all the inhabitants as

-<y-\ bith the walls and buildings of  
*fifc,»kue be bestowed its territory upon the  
*r**ottriog Sieuli. (Diod. xiv. 14, 15, 66, 68.)  
I h a certain that Naxos never recovered this blow,

r aain to be a place of any consideration:

■J* » ast easy to trace precisely the events which

■■■■1 It appears", however, that the Siculi, to

oW Xirian territnrr wm ftsMtmed. snnn aftpr

assigned, soon after

_ on the hill called Mount

W*»»tadi rises immediately above the site of

that this gradually grew up into a con-

m, which assumed the name of Tauro-

(Dwd. xiv. 58, 59.) This took place about

t^-M^i ud we find the Siculi still in possession

some rears later. (76. 88.) Mean-

'ie txikd and fugitive inhabitants of Naxos

Crte anted, as usual in such cases, a con-

■■a4Wy, who as far as possible kept together.

■ rmp «u made in B. c. 394 by the Rhcgians

,kr-« torn again in a body at Mylae, but without

: l.r Ibry were speedily expelled by the Mes-

• aad from this lime appear to have been

. various parts of Sicily. (Diod. xiv. 87.)

P*Va, ate 358. Andromacbos, the father of

wako Tiroaeus, is said to have collected

apua the Naxian exiles from all parts of

P«.t,uJ otabliahed them on the hill of Tau-

vines thai rose to be a Greek city, and

u* fttooasor of the ancient Naxos. (Diod.

*") Heart Pliny speaks of Taurumenium as  
J"l formerly railed Naxos, an expression

P* » au» strictly correct. (Plin. iii. 8. s. 14.)

p brtaaai of the sew city, which quickly ruse

P*" ' P** of importance, are related in the

TuaoMCnrn, The site of Naxos itself

P''a»«« never again inhabited; but the

^saitariat si Apollo Arcbegetes continued to

~" • :•' '-.r..: had stood, :wl are mentioned

in the war between Octavian and Sextus Pompey in

Sicily, B. c. 36. (Appian, B. C. V. 109.)

There are no remains of the ancient city now

extant, but the site is clearly marked. It occupied

a low but rocky headland, now called the Capo di

Schito, formed by an ancient stream of lava, im­

mediately to the N. of the Alcantara, one of tlie

most considerable streams in this part of Sicily. A

small bay to the N. affords good anchorage, and

separates it from the foot of the bold and lofty hill,

still occupied by the town of Taormina; but the

situation was not one which enjoyed any peculiar

natural advantages.

The coins of Naxos, which are of fine workman­

ship, may almost all be referred to the period from

B.C. 460 to B.C. 403, which was probably the

most flourishing in the history of the city. [E. H. B.J

COIN OF NAXOS IS 8ICILT.

NAXOS or NAXTJS(Nd|oj, Suid. «. t\), a town of

Crete, according to the Scholiast (ad Find. hth. vi.

107) celebrated for its whetstones. Hock (Kreta,

vol. i. p. 417) considers the existence of this city very

problematical. The islands Crete and Naxos were

famed for their whetstones (Plin. xxxvi. 22; comp.

xviii. 28), and hence the confusion. In Mr. PasMcy's

map the site of Naxos is marked near Spina

Ldnga. [E B. J.]

NAXOS or NAXUS(Ni{oi: EtK Ndf.os: Nazta),

the largest and most fertile of theCyclades, situated in

the middle of the Aegean sea, about halfway between

the coasts of Greece and those of Asia Minor. It

lies east of Paros, from which it is separated by a

channel about 6 miles wide. It is described by Pliny

(iv. 12. s. 22) as 75 Roman miles in circumference.

It is about 19 miles in length, and 15 in breadth in

its widest part. It bore several other names in an­

cient times. It was called Strongyle (2Tpo77i''A7j)

from its round shape, Dionysias (Aiopu<rlur) from

its excellent wine and its consequent connection with

the worship of Dionysus, and the Smaller Sicily

(fwepit Sia-cAla) from the fertility of its soil (Fun.

iv. 12. s. 22: Diod. t. 50—52); but the poets fre­

quently give it the name of Dia (Aia; comp. Ov.

Met. ii. 690, viii. 174.) It is said to have been

originally inhabited by Thracians, and then by Ca-

rians, and to have derived its name from Naxos. the

Carian chieftain. (Diod. v. 50, 51; Steph. B. I. v.

Ndfoi.) In the historical ages it was colonised by

Ionians from Attica (Herod, viii. 46), and in con­

sequence of its position, size, and fertility, it became

the most powerful of the Cyclades. The govern­

ment of Naxos was orignally an oligarchy, but was

overthrown by Lygdamis, who made himself tyrant

of the island. (Aristot. ap. Ath. viii. p. 348.)

Lygdamis, however, appears not to have retained his

power long, for we find him assisting l'eisistratus in

his thin! restoration to Athens, and the latter in re­

turn subduing Naxos and committing the tyranny

to Lygdamis. (Herod, i. 61,64; comp. Aristot.

Pol v. 5.) But new revolutions followed. Tha

D d 3

