430 N1LUS. KILUrOLIS.

with Seneca's description of the Hill Faludes as

u immcnsas qnarum exitus nec inoolae noverant nec

sperare qawquun potest." [Nilus.] [W. It. 1).]

NILUTOLIS (N*i\oujroA.iT, PtoL v. 5. § 57;

Staph. U. $.v,: NflAoiroAfriff), wu a city of Middle

Aegypt, built upon an bland of the Nile, in the

Heracleopolite nome, and about eight miles NK. of

Heittcleopolu Magna. Nilupolia is sometimes called

simply Nilus, and appean to he the town mentioned

ander the hitter name by Hecataeoa (Fragment.

277). It was existing as late as the 5th century

a. i>., since it is mentioned in the Acts of the Coun­

cil of Ephetus, a. d. 430. [W. B. D.]

NILUS (6 NcZXof), the river Nile in Egypt Of

all the more important rivers of the globe known to

the Greek and Roman writers, the Nile was that

which from the remotest periods arrested their live­

liest cariosity and attention. It ranked with them

as next in magnitude to the Ganges and the Indus,

and as surpassing the Danube in the length of its

course and the volume of its waters. (Strab. xv.

p. 702.) Its physical phenomena and the peculiar

civilisation of the races inhabiting its batiks attracted

Alike the historian, the mathematician, the satirist,

and the romance-writer: Herodotus and Diodorua,

Eratosthenes and Strabo, Lucian and Holiodorut,

expatiate on its marvels; and as Aegypt was the

resort of the scientific men of Greece in general, the

Nile was more accurately surveyed and described

than any other river of the earth.

The word Nilus, if it were not indigenous, was of

Semitic origin, and probably transmitted to the

Greeks by the Phoenicians, Its epithets in various

languages—e. g. the Hebrew Sihhor (/soiaA, xxiii.

3; Jerem. ii. 18), the Aegyptiau Chemi, and the

Greek /ue'Aas (Servius, ad Virgil* Georg. iv, 291)—

point to the same peculiarity of its waters, the hue

imparted by their dark slime. The Hebrews en­

titled the Nile Nahal-Misraim, or river of Aegypt;

but the natives called it simply p-iero (whence pro­

bably the Nubian tier) or the river (i. c. of rivers).

Lydus (da Men.nbusy ft 8) says that it was some­

times termed Has or dark; and Pliny (v. 9. s. 9;

coinp. Dionys. Perieg. v. 213) observes, somewhat

vaguely, that in Aethiopia the river was called Siris,

and did not acquire the appellation of Nilus before

it readied Syeue. With tew exceptions, however,

the Greeks recognised the Dame of Nilus as far south

as Mere*; and above that meaopotamian region they

merely doubted to which of its tributaries they should

assign the principal name. Homer, indeed (Od. iii.

300, iv. 477, &<•.), calls the river Aegypt us, from

the appellation of the land which it intersects. Hut

Hesiod (Tktog. 338) and Hecalaeus (AVrym. 279—

2S0), and succeeding poets and historian-? uniformly

designate the river of Aegypt as tlie Nile.

It is unnecessary to dwell on a theory at one time

received, but generally discredited by the ablest of

the ancient geographers—that the Nile rose in

Lower Maurelania, not far from the Western Ocean

(Juba, tip, Plin. v. 9. s. 10; Dion Ca-ss. Ixxv. 13;

Solin. e. 35); that it flowed in an easterly direction;

was engulphed by the sands of the Sahara; re­

appeared as the Nigir; again sunk in the earth,

and came to light once more near the Great Lake

of Ihbitya as the proper Nile,

Historically, the Nile derives its principal import­

ance from the civilisation, to which it contributed so

materially, of the races inhabiting its shores), from

the S. of Meroe northwards to the Mediterranean.

But for geographical purposes it is necessary to ex-

amine its course, in the first instance, throaih lea

known regions, and to ascertain, if possible. n*i

of its feeders above Meroe was regarded by tin a>

cients as the true Nile. The course of tbe tfrcti

may be divided into three heads: — (1) the rifle

S. of Meroe; (2) between Meroe and Syeoe; ttj

(3) between Syene, or Thilae, and the Mediter­

ranean.

(1.) The Nile above Meroe. — The sarins

briefly described the Nile as springinc fnxn msfttl

(Nill Palndts) at the foot of the Mnuttaimefl

Moon. Hut as all the rivers which flow northut

from the Abyssinian highlands rise from lips*

and generally expand themselves into broad

tins description is too vague. Neither is it

whether they regarded the White River, or the

or the Astaboras (Tacazze), as the channel of

true Nile. The names of rivers are often ciwt

priciously: it by no means follows that tor/

imposed upon the principal arm or tribatsry;

hence wc can assign neither to the Astspos

the White River, usually considered ss the

stream, the distinction of being absolutely tbs"

Nile."

The Nile, as Strabo Fagaciously remarks (li]

493), was well known because it was tbe cfc

of active commerce; and his observation, if s

to its southern portions, may lead us to the d

which was really regarded as the principal

even in remotest ages. The stream most fit

and accessible to navigation, and whose banks aj

the most thickly peopled, was doubtless the

earliest attracted attention, and this we bel*m

have been the Astapus (Bakr-el-Azrtk, ■

River),

As the sources b»th of the Blue River and

Bahr-tl-Abiad or the White fitter are uDcertaiBj

will be projvr to examine the&c streams

point of junction near the modem military I

at Khartum, kit. 15°37'N., long. 33° E.

Astaboras {Tacazze) may fur the present I

missed, both as an inferior tributary, and at

the meeting of the two main streams.

The White River, which has been often

nated as ** the true Nile," has at no period been

a road for traffic nor favourable to the sctifeotw

man on its banks. It is rather an immense

than a river, is often from 5 to 7 miles in

and its sides are in general so low as to be

at times with alluvial deposit to a

from 2 to 3 miles beyond the stream,

shorts there is neither any town, nor any

of there haying ever been one; nor

many leagues up the stream, do then

spots suited either to the habitation of n

ture, or to tillage. On the contrary, it is

by travellers much in the same terms in

neca (Xatur. Quaest. vi. 8) speaks of

Pallidas, as seen by Nero's surveyors,

are described by the Roman philosopher

inensas paludes, quarum exitus nec

rant, nec sjierare quisquam potest, ita I

aquis hcrbae sunt," &c.: the former by l

plorers as "an interminable tea of grass*'

stagnant marsh," &c. As the Whit*

approaches the higher table-land of tbe > .

become less depressed, and arc

the weedy lagoon* extend nearly 100 a

of Khartum.

Hut it we trace upwards the channel of

River, a totally different spectacle

