4*20 NERVII.

NERIS.

n.jrlh-western coast of Norway, the most important

coiiimenial town in that jnrt still bearing the name

of litrgen. The island of Dumna lastly, which is

mentioned along with those spoken of above, has

been identified with Dunocn, belonging to the abbey

of fJrontheim. But all this is very doubtful, as

Pliny, besides being very vague, may have blundered

here as in other parts of his work; for, according to

some. Bergion seems to have been an ancient name

of Hibcrnia or Ireland (P. Mel. ii. 5. § 4); and

Piunnu is distinctly called by Ptolemy (ii. 3. § 31,

viii. 3. § 10), an island off the north of Britain.

[Cornp. Oi«ai»es.] [L. S.]

NERIS. [Cymkia.]

NE'RITUS. [Ithaca.]

KE'RIUM. [Artabui.]

NKIK/NIA. [Aktaxata.]

NEinKUEANES(N*pT*p«a«j),asmall German

tril>e, which is mentioned at a late period in the

countrv once occupied bv the Chatti, on the east of

Mons Abnoba (Ptol. ii. II. § 22). [L.S.]

NKRTOBRIGA (N«pro6>-ya). 1. A town of

Hispania Baetica (Ptol. ii. 4. § 13), also called by

Pliny (iiu 1. s. 3) Concordia Julia, the modern

Yaiera la rujn. It is named 'EpKofpixa in the

copies of Polvbius (xxxv. 2), by an omission of the

JV*. (Ukert, vol. ii. pt. 1. p. 381.)

2. A town of the Celtiberi in Hispania Tarraco-

nensis, on the r>ad from Emerita to Caesaraugusta.

It ia called by Appian HtpyMpiya (Ilitp. 50), and

by Suidas fitpy6€ptyt%: now Almunia. (Ptol. ii.

6*. § 58; Flom-., ii. 17; Ant. Itin. 437; Ukert, vol.

ii. pt. I. p. 4G0.) [T. H. D.]

NERVA (NtpoCa. Ptol. ii. G. § 7), a small river

in the N. of Hisjwnia Tamtconeni-is, in the territory

uf the Autrigones; according to Ukert (vol. ii. pt. 1.

\\ 300), the modern Ordunna, near Bilbao; though

by other writers it is variously identified with the

Blow* and the AVrrion. [T. H. I)."l

NERYTCANL'S TRACTUS, is mentioned in the

Not. Imp. as a continuation of the Armoricanus

Tract us. There is also a middle age authority for

the expression " Ncrvici littoris tract us." A port on

this coast, named Port us Aepntiaci, was guarded by

some Neman t roups according to the Notitia.

l)'Anvtlle concludes that the Ner\'ii extended from

their inland position to the coast, and had part of it

between the Morini and the mouth of the Scheldt;

a conclusion for which there is little evidence, and a

good deal against it. [Mknai'M; Morini.] [G.L.]

NK'RVIl (NtpoCtot, titpGioi), a nation of Belgiea,

whose capital according' to Ptolemy (ii. 0. § II) was

Bacacum (Hami). When Caesar was preparing

(».c. 57) to march against the Belgian confederates,

he was informed that the Nervii hatl promised to

Mipply 50,000 men for the general defen<*e, and

that they were considered the most savage of all the

eon federates. (B. G. ii. 4.) The neighbours of the

Xtrvii on the south were the Arabiani. (B. G. iL

15.) In Caesar's time the Nervii had not allowed

** toerca tores" to come into their country; they  
would not let wine be imported and other things

which encouraged luxury. When Caesar liad

inarched for three days through their territory, he

learned that he was not more than 10 Roman miles

from the Sabis (Sambre), and the Nervii were

waiting for him on the oilier side with the Atrcliates

and Veromandui, their border jeople. Thus we

ascertain that the Atrcbatcs, whose chief town is

Arras, and the Veromandui, whose chief place was

St. QpaUin, were also neighbours of the Nervii.

The Nervii had no cavalry, «nd their country was

trade almost impenetrable to any attack from the

cavalry of their neighbours by quickset hrdfes

which a man could not get through, and ir«W*

hardly sec through them. (J9.Gr.1i. 17.) On taa

banks of the Sombre. Caesar had a desperate Efbt

with the Nervii, commanded by Boduognatas-

During this invasion the old men, the women, aai

children of the Nervii, were removed to the actuaries

and marshes, somewhere near the coast. The

Nervii lost a great number of men in this battle:

"the nation and the name were nearly destroyed."

(B. G. ii. 27.) Their "senatores" as Caesar calls

them, their chief men, were reduced from 600 to

three, and out of the 60,000 who were in the berth

there were said to be only 500 left capable of bearinr

arms. After this terrible slaughter the Nerrii na*

again in arms against Caesar (b. c 54), when tfcry

joined the Kburones and others in the attack ea

Quintus Ciceros camp. (B. G. v. 38.) Some at tha

commentators have found a difficulty a boat the ap­

pearance of the Nerrii again in B. c. 54, after having

been nearly destroyed in D.C 57. We most sap-

pose that Caesar wrote of the events as they ot-

curred, and that he did not alter what be bad

written. In b. c. 57 he suppled that he had de­

stroyed most of the fighters of the Nerrii. In a. a

54 he found that he was mistaken. In B-c. 53

the Nervii were again preparing to give troobJe ts

the Roman governor; but he entered their coontry

in the winter season, and before they hail time U

rally or to escape, he took many prisoners, drove c£

many head of cattle, and ravaged their land, and w

compelled them to come to terms. (B. C. vi. 2.)

When the meeting of the Gallic states in b. c 53

was settling the forces that each nation should •end

to the relief of Alesia, the contingent of the Nerva

was 5000 men. (fi. G. vii. 75.)

Some of the nations between the .Sruv, the sea,

and the Rhine, were Germans in Caesar's time, but

these Germans were invaders. The Nerrii (Tat.

Germ. c. 28) claimed a Germanic origin, and tbry

may have been a German or a mixed German ana

Gallic race; but there is no evidence whith ran

settle the question. Appian (de BelL (,'alL L 4)

speaks of the Nervii as descendants of the Teti!cv*»

and Cirabri; but this is worth very little. Apeaaa

had pn»bahly no authority except Caesar, wbeca be

used carelessly; and he may bare applied to the

Nervii what Caesar says of the origin of the A«io-

atuci. (Ii. 67. ii. 29.) Strabo (p. 194> also asyi

that the Nervii were a Germanic nation, but b* d<*»

not even know the position of the Nerrii, and ao

misplaces them.

Caesar mentions some smaller tribe* a§ drp^ndv-n.

on the Nen-ii (B. <#. v. Mt>) : these tribes were Great a.

Levari, Pleumoxii, Geiduni, of all whom we ki*j*

nothing.

I'liny (it, 17) mentions in Belcica as mlanrf

people, the Castologi (apparently a corrupted naw),

Atrebatea, Nervii liberi, Veromandtu; an onVr W

enumeration which corres|*md?» with the r<*itr« ef*

the Nenij between the At rebates and the Verotm

dui; for the chief place of the At rebate* i» .4r»-o# <t*

the Nervii Harai, and of the Veromandui SL (Jtmtm.

[Augusta VrnoMANiHTOKiM.] As Pliny cmBa

the Nervii liberi, we must suppose that in has l-ram

they were exempt from the payment of taaes to ti»

Romsns, and retained their own internal c-otvrsv

raent; probably in I'liny's time the Romans t*kl not

yet fully reduced their country,

