66 ISAURrA. ISC A.

mountainous, though the capital, Isaura, was in

the south. Strabo, in a somewhat obscure paa-

na.se (xii. p. 568), seems to distinguish between

'laavpia, the northern part, and 'Itrat/pnc^, the

southern and less known part, which lie regards

as bel<m<rinff to I.yeaonia. Later writers, too, de­

signate by the name Isauria only the northern part

of the country, and take no notice of the south,

which was to them almost a terra incognita. The

inhabitants of that secluded mountainous region of

A-ia, the Isauri or Isaurica pens, appear to have

Iron a kindred race of the PisidUns. Their prin­

cipal means of living were derived from plunder and

rjpine; from their mountain fastnesses they used to

descend into the plains, and to ravage and plunder

wherever they could overcome the inhabitants of the

valleys in Cilicia, Phrygia, and l'Lsidia. These

marauding habits rendered the Isaurians, who also

t<»-.k pirt in the piracy of thcCilieians, so dantrerous

to the neighbouring countries that, in n. r. 78, the

Romans sent against them an army under P. Servi-

lins, who, after several dangerous campnigas, suc­

ceeded in conquering meet of their Btronghulds and

reducing them to submission, in consequence of

which he received the surname of Isauricus. (Strab.

l.e.; Diod. Sic. xviii. 22 ; Zosim. v. 25; Mela, i. 2;

Plin. v. 231 Entrop. vi. 3: Liv. Epit. 93; Dion

Cass. xiv. 19; Flor. Hi. 6; Ptol. v. 4. § 12; Oroe.

T. 23; Amm. Marc. xiv. 2, xzt. 9.) The Isaurians

after this were quite distinct from the I.ycaonians,

for Cicero (ad AtLv. 21; com p. ad Earn, xv. 2)

distinguishes between the Forum Lycaonium anil

the Isaurirum. But notwithstanding the severe

measures of Scrvilius, who had destroyed their

strongholds, and even their capital of Isaura, they

subsequently continued to infest their neighbours,

which induced the tctrarch Amyntas to attempt

their extirpation; but he did not succeed, and lost

his life in the attempt. Although the glorious vic­

tory of Pompey over the pirates hail put an end to

such practices at sea, the Isaurians. who in the

midst of the possessions of Borne maintained their

independence, continued their predatory excursions,

and defied the power of Borne; and the Romans, un­

able to priced their subjects against the bold moun­

taineers in any other way, endeavoured to check

them by surrounding their country with a ring of

fortresses. (Treb. Poll. XXX. Tyr. 25.) In this,

however, the Unmans succeeded but imperfectly, for

the Isaurians frequently broke through the sur­

rounding line of fortifications; and their successes

emboldened them so much that, in the third century

of our sera, they united themselves with their kins­

men, the Cilicians, into one nation. From that

time the inhabitants of the highlands of Cilicia also

are comprised under the name of Isauri, and the

two, united, undertook expeditions on a very large

scale. The strongest and most flourishing cities

were attacked and plundered by them, and they re­

mained the terror of the surrounding nations. In

the third century, Trebellianus, a chief of the Cilician

Isaurians, even assumed the title and dignity of

Roman emperor. The Bomans, indeed, conquered

and put him to death; but were unable to reduce

the Isaurians. The emperor Probna, for a time,

succeeded in reducing them to submission; but they

soon shook off the yoke. (Vopisc. /'rob. 16; Zosim.

i. 69, 70.) To the Greek emperors they were par­

ticularly formidable, for whole armies are said to

hive been cut to pieces and destroyed by them.

(SuiJ. «. r. Bpi'xios and 'HpdxKttOi; I'liilostorg.

IlUt. Eccle*. xi. 8.) Once the Isaurians even had

the honour of giving an emperor to the East in toe

person of Zeno, surnamed the Isaurian; but they

were subsequently much reduced by the emperor

Anastosius, so that in the time of Justinian they had

ceased to be formidable. (Comp. Gibbon, lli*L of

the Decline, tfc., chap, xl.) The Isaurians are de­

scribed as an ugly race, of low stature, and badly

armed; in the open field they were bad soldiers, but

as hardened mountaineers they were irresistible in

what is called guerilla warfare. Their country,

though for the most part consisting of rngced moun­

tains, was not altogether barren, and the vine was

cultivated to a considerable extent. (Amm. Marc.

xiv. 8.) Traditions originating in the favourite pur­

suits of the ancient Isaurians are still current among

the present inhabitants of the country, and an inte­

resting specimen is related in Hamilton's HeeeareheM,

vol. ii. p. 331. [L. S.]

ISCA, the name of two towns in Britain. The

criticism of certain difficulties connected with their

identification is given under Mckiih'M'M. Here it

is assumed that one is Exeter, the other Caerleon-

on- Usk.

1. IscA = A*j:-etcr, mentioned by Ptolemy (ii. 3.

§ 30). In the 12th and 15th Itineraries this s|>j*ars

as Isca Dumnonioruin, 15 miles from Muriminum.

The word Dumnnniorum shows that Itevonehire is

the county in which it is to be sought Name for

name, Exeter suggests itself. Nevertheless, Horsley

gives Uxela as the Roman name fur Kxeter, and

placed I/ca D. at C'Atse/Wo'. After remarking on

! Isaca, that " it is universally sopped to be the river

Ere in Devonshire,'' and that "Isacae ostia must,

therefore, be Ermouth," he adds, " Isca Dumnonio­

ruin has been universally taken for Exeter; I have

placed it near Chutlbom' and South Petherton, Dear

the borders of Somersetshire" (p. 371). His ob­

jections (p. 462) lie in the difficulty of fixing Mu-

ridunum (</. r.); but, beyond this, he considers

himself free to claim Uxela (9. ».) as Exeter. For

considering Isca Dumnoniorum to be Exeter, he sees

no better reason than "general opinion and some

seeming affinity of names.'' Yet the *• affinity of

names" has been laid irreat stress on in the case of

Isacae ostia. The Isca of Ptolemy must be about 20

or 30 miles north-east of the mouth of the Exe,u on

which river Exeter stands. This reaches to the Ax."

Hence he suggests llchetter as Isca Dumn.; but, as be

admits that that town has a claim to be considered

Iscbalis (j. v.), he also admits that some of the

localities about ffnmjxlen Hill (where there are the

remains of a Roman camp), South Ptthrrtim (« here

lioman coins liave been foundX and Chuelboro' (n><

far from the Axe), have better claims. Hence, in hi*

map, Uxela = Exeter, and Isca l>. = ChUtlhuro.

Assuming that some, if not all, these difficulties

are explained under Uxkla and Ml nmtsm, the

positive evidence in favour of Exeter is something

more than mere opinion and similarity of name.

(1) The form Isca is nearer to Ex than Ax, and

that Isaca = Axe is admitted. The i'x- in {.'x-ela

may better = Ax.

(2) There is no doubt as to the other Isca —

Caerleon-on- I'tk. Now, Roger Hoveden, who wrote

whilst the Cornish was a spoken language, state*

that the name of Exeter was the same as Uiat of

Caerleon, in British, i. e. Cumriec b civitaa aquae.

(3) The statement of Horsley, that "he coulj

never hear of any military way leading to or from"

Exeter, misleads, lu I'ulnheie (p. 182) we bare a

