KOMA. KOMA. 829

itntcl tlii lut valley m called Vices Loxous,

ii *» km from tb« Anonymous of Einsiedlen, who

irism the church of S. Vitalis as situated "in

m heft." We find its name recorded in Livy

i tt\ tod Valerius Maximus (ii. 5. § 6). Of the

■Jut! indent divisions of the Collis Quirinalis

t * ttiiongin of its name, we hare already spoken

: rb* tamer put of this article.

Ili> Quirinal abounded in ancient fanes and

Tfn One of the earliest foundations of this

i «n tbt Temple of Qumni's, erected by

u-» to EVnulus after his apotheosis. The first

viiii ootke that we find of it is, however, in

r. 4JJ, when Livy (it. 21) records a meeting of

• >'itt is it; a fact which shows that it must

nt Urn a considerable building. A new one was

ifiifi, probably on the same spot, by L. Pupirius

BW,a.c292. (IJt.x. 46; Plin.vii. 60.) This

rartiit appears to have been burnt in n. c 48, and

'd* tot hear of its re-erection till b. c. 15, when

;rwai trbuilt it, as recorded in the Momtmentum

wmurn, and by Dion Cassius (liv. 19). Vet

!t» ,r.«ml between these dates we find it alluded

■ all existing (Id. xliii. 45; Cic. ad Alt. xiii.

i. »t*nc# we may conclude tliat it had been only

SaJr destroyed. Dion (liv. 19) describes the

'rtrarture of Augustus as having 76 columns,

*i-^r tbe years which he bad lived. Hence,  
irrn to hare been the same building as that

■rei by Vltrovius (iii. 2, 7) as an example of

'H*rng oetattylo$; for that kind of temple had

row of columns all round; namely, two rows

^ 11 at the front and back ; and, without count -

tto eotjtuJe ones of these over again, two rows

II aril at the aides (32 + 44 = 76). This noble

!«• ijfemn to have been the same alluded to by

Eai u tbe resort of the idlers of the vicinity (ix.

d Topographers are universally agreed that it

>:utai on tie height over 5. V'itaie in the neigh-

""i of S. Andrea del Noriziato. (Becker,

►* p. J73; Irliclw. Betehr. ill 2, 366; Ca-

> Me. p. 185.) There appears to have been

• 'iixixni Ql ieihajjs near the Porta Col­

li tl« mm interesting traditions respecting the

sal Moog to the reign of Noma. One of the

ftn of that Sabine monarch was situated on

afi (Plat, A'sam. 14; Solin. i. 21). where he

a citadel, or capitol; and where his

*' Tcdlus Hostilins, in pursuance of a vow  
'■ the Sabine War, repeated, as it were in

■^tr. Noma's peculiar institution of the Saltan

af (Liv- i- 27; Dionya. ii. 70). All these

> ilaw very clearly the distinction between the

c ml Sabine citiee daring the reigns of the

-"-mirhs. On the Quirinal, the Saltan priests  
tin- aocilia were attached to the worship of

Ha, aa. in the Romnlean city, they were to

« Man (•* Quid de ancilibus vestris, Mars

'tiwae Quirine pater (Inqoar)?" Liv. v. 52);

!*• pn»t» were called, by way of distinction,

tmm, or Collini, from the name of the

'" Is kVu Saliorum qnorum cognomen Ago-

or/ Varr. L.L. vi. § 14; cf. Dionys. /. c,

a. an m, he erroneously speaks of a \6$as

«it

■t u tie temple of Quirinns, proceeding in a

»7 Arertioo, aa mav be inferred from the order

tri tbf objects are mentioned in the Curiotum

.W«a aomewhat differs), stood a Statue of

-fai t; and then, after an interval occupied in

later times by the baths of Constantine, — the site

of the present Palazzo Rotpigliori.— followed the

Veti's Capitolium, or citadel of Numa. Whether

Mamnrius was another name for Mamers, the Sabine

god of war, of which, according to Varro (L. L. v.

§ 7.1), the Roman namo of Mars watt only a cor­

ruption, or whether it was the name of tho reputed

maker of the ancilia (Paul. Diac. p. 131, Mull.),

matters but little; the statue is equally connected

with the ancient Salian rites, and therefore one of

the most venerable objects in the city. We find a

Curl's Maml-ri mentioned in the middle ages in

the neighbourhood of 8. Vitale (Anastas. V. Imoc.

/. p. 64, Blanch.), which no doubt took its name

from this statue; whence we may infer that it stood

near the temple of Qnirinus; since the church of

5. Vitale and that of S. Andrea, where the temple

stood, are close together.

We have remarked in the former part of this

article that the ancient Capitol of Kutna probably

stood on the height of MagnanapoH. It contained,

like the Palatine before it and the Capitoline sub­

sequently, a temple to the three divinities, Jupiter,

Juno, and Minerva, as we learn from Varro: " Clivos

proximus a Flora susus versus Capitolium vettis,

quod ibi sacellum Jovis, Junonis, Minervae; et id

antiquius quam aedis, quae in Capitolio facta" (L. L.

v. § 158). Its site may be determined by that of

another ancient sanctuary, the Temple of Flora.

In the order of the Curiotum and Sotiiia that

temple stands between the Capitolium Vetus and

the temple (or temples) of Salus and Serapis. The

temple of Salus must undoubtedly have been

situated near the Porta Salutaris, which, as we have

before remarked, took its name from that sanctuary;

and we must consequently seek for the temple of

Flora on the W. side of the Quirinal, or that which

faced towards the Campus Martius. That it stood

on this side is confirmed by what Martial says

respecting the situation of his house, which, as we

learn from one of his epigrams, lay near the temple

of Flora (v. 22. 2):—

"Sed Tiburtinac sum proximus accola pilae

Qua videt antiquum rustics Flora Jovem."

(Cf. vi. 27.) From which we also leam that the

temple of Flora could not have been very far from

that of Jupiter in Xuma's Capitol; as indeed likewise

appears from the passage of Varro before quoted,

with the addition that it must hare lain on a lower

part of the hill. But as Martial's house is thus

shown to have been near the temple of Flora, so also

that it was on the W. side of the hill appears from

another epigram (i. 108. 2):—

"At mea Vipsanas spectant coenacnla laurus

Factus in hac ego sum jam regione senexv*

It can hardly be doubted that this passage contains

an allusion to some laurel trees growing near the

Porticus Vipsania. erected, as will appear in a sub­

sequent section, near the Via Lata by Agrippa, whose

family name was Vipsanius. This pnrtico is plainly

alluded to in another passage of Martial (iv. 18),

under the name of Vipsaniae Coluninae. There is

nothing surprising in Martial's indicating a locality

by certain trees. In ancient Rome trees were noted

objects, and claimed a considerable share of public

attention, as we hare already seen with regard to

several that grew in or about the forum. Two

laurel trees grew before the imperial palace (Tert.

ApoL 35); and in front of the temple of Quirinua

