PHINTIAS. PHLIUS. 601

I riese to the town of Pbileae. It has

tnracnly identified with /nimal-alc, ilattro-

mtia, mi Arfat (Mela, ii. 2; Plin. iv. 11. s. 18,

t «.a. 43.) [T. H. D.]

PnTXTIAS (wittIm ■ Elh. Phintiensis: Ali-

:■(•), a city en the S. coast of Sicily, situated at

te BMlh of the river Uimera, about midway be-

.Vf ncniani and Gels. It was not an ancient

■n, hat was founded about 280 B. c. by Phintias,

txs: of AgrifeEtarn, who bestowed on it his own

.»», and laid it out on a great scale, with its

aCa, temples, and agora. He then peopled it with

k> olahiiaata of Gela, which he utterly destroyed,

the whole population to migrate to his

I city. (Diod. xxii. 2, p. 495.) Phin-

never rose to a degree of importance

a3 to be compared to that of Gels: it is men-

•ad m the First Punic War (b.c. 249) as aflbrd-

I >fc**tcr to a Roman fleet, which was, however,

hexed aa the roadstead by that of the Cartha-

bbbw. and many of the ships sunk. (Diod. xxiv.

a. AOS.) Cicero also alludes to it as a seaport,

mac an a considerable export trade in corn.

■ I'err. Hi. 83.) But in Strabo's time it seems

hare fallen mto Um same state of decay with the

■a* nit in on tbo S- coast of Sicily, as he does not

■ n it among the few exceptions. (Strab. vi.

171.) Plioy. indeed, notices the Phintienses (or

'-tcjenan as the name is written in some MSS.)

"- the isipeodiary towns of Sicily; and its name

(mad also in Ptolemy (who writes it *$a>6ia)\

>: u itrange that both these writers reckon it

■t Ik* island towns of Sicily, though its mari-

• twittas is clearly attested both by Diodorus

(Vera, Tha Antunine Itinerary also gives a

a -aftal "Plxntia," doobtless a corruption of

■aaa, wfaicfi it places on the road from Agri-

sc. along the roast towards Syracuse, at the

Bant af 23 miles from the former city. (Itin.

L a. i", ) This distance agrees tolerably well

i KMt firuru Girgenti to Alicata, though some-

• wjs the truth; and it seems probable that

bri-r ctr. which is a place of some trade,

(fc ita lauttonr ia a mere roadstead, occupies the

af the ancient Phintias. There Is indeed no

r. fr m exatinp remains on the hill immediately

• i/t-«tn, that the site was occupied in ancient

». sal. though these have been regarded by

!aru;Baruux* as the ruins of Gela, there is little

5 4 lit cucrertness of the opinion advanced by

artaa. that that city is to be placed on the site

-rr^aerti. and the vestiges which remain at  
■ai are tlsoae of Phintias. (Cluver. Sicil. pp.

J14. Sear sbo the article tin la.) The re-

■ Lvwlvn are of little interest. [E. H. B ]

SIX TON or PHLNTOXIS INSULA (+.f-

a rww. J*toi.X ■ small island in the strait

an Sanxinan nod Corsica, mentioned both by

r aca Puaetny. It is probably the one now

I lav Sanaa oV/As Maddalena, the most con-

paw af tan group so situated. (Plin. iii. 6.

kna.au. 3L §8.) [K. H. B.]

ft a (agtaf). an inland in the lake Tritonia in

auraraf Libra (Herod, ir. 178), which Ste­

la U_ cavpwBtaj frurn Herodotus, calls an island

r- (i. craiifooading it with the island of l'hilae

• Vsa.

USAiSJi. [FAtuat.]

U.i.WF.1 CAMPI. [Cami-asia. p. 491, a.]

IL1L4 (•Ajawr Elh. •Aido-ior, the territory

r.ii aa ttJ^petalent city in the north-eastern

part of Peloponnesus, whose territory was bounded

on the N. by Sicyonia, on the W. by Arcadia, on

the E. by Cleonae, and on the S. by Argolis. This

territory is n small valley about 900 feet above the

level of the sea, surrounded by mountains, from which

streams flow down on every side, joining the river

Asopus in the middle of the plain. The mountain

in the southern part of the plain, from which the

principal source of the Asopus springs, was called

Carneates (KapMdrnt) in antiquity, now Pohjfmgo.

(Strab. viii. p. 382.) The territory of Phlius was

celebrated in antiquity for its wine. (Athen. i.

p. 27, d.) According to Strabo (viii. p. 382), the

ancient capital of the country was Araethyrea ('Apai-

Qvpia) on Mt. Celosse, which city is mentioned by

Homer (/£ ii. 571); but the inhabitants subse­

quently deserted it and built Phlius at the distance

of 30 stadia. Pausanias (ii. 12. §§ 4, 5), however,

does not speak of any migration, but says that tho

ancient capital was named Arantia ('Apm-r(a), from

its founder Arss, an autochthon, that it was after­

wards called Araethyrea from a daughter of Aras,

and that it Anally received the name of Phlius, from

Phlias, a son of Ceisus and grandson of Temenus.

The name of Arantia was retained in the time of

Pausanias in the hill Arantinus, on which the city

stood. Hence the statement of grammarians that

both Arantia and Araethyrea were ancient names of

Phlius. (Steph. B. s. m. 4>Aiovs, 'Apairia; Schol.

ad Apull. Rhod. i. 115.) According to Stephanus

B. (s. v. $Atous) Phlius derived its name from Dio­

nysus and Chthonophyle. Phlius was subsequently

conquered by Dorians under Bhegnidas, who

came from Sicyon. Some of the inhabitant- mi­

grated to Samoa, others to Clazomenae; among the

settlers at Samoa was Hippasus, from whom Pytha­

goras derived his descent. (Pans. ii. 13. § I, seq.)

Like most of the other Doric states, Phlius was

governed by an aristocracy, though it was for a time

subject to a tyrant Leon, a contemporary of Pytiia-

goras. (Diog. Laert. i. 12, viii. 8; Cic. Ttac. v. 3.)

Phlius sent 200 soldiers to Thermopylae (Herod,

vii. 202), and 1000 to Plataea (ix. 28). During

the whole of the Peloponnesian War it remained

faithful to Sparta and hostile to Argos. (Thuc. v.

57, seq., vi. 105.) But before B. c. 393 a change

seems to have taken place in the government, for in

that year we tind some of tlio citizens in exile who

professed to be the friends of the Lacedaemonians.

The Phliasiaus, however, still continued faithful to

Sparta, and received a severe defeat from Iphicrates in

the year already mentioned. So much were they weak­

ened by this blow that they were obliged to admit a

Lacedaemonian garrison within their walls, which

they had been unwilling to do before, lest their allies

should restore the exiles. But the Lacedaemonians

did not betray the confidence placed in them, and

quitted the city without making any change in the

government. (Xen. Hell. iv. 4. § 15, seq.) Ten

years afterwards (b. c 383) the exiles induced the

S[nrtan government to espouse their cause; and with

the fate of Mantincia before their eyes, the Phliasiaus

thought it more prudent to comply with the request

of the Spartans, and received the exiles. (Xen.

Ih-it. v. 2. § 8, seq.) But disputes arising between

the returned exiles and those who were in possession

of the government, the former again appealed to

Sparta, and Agesilaus was sent with an army in

D. c. 380 to reduce the city. At this period Phlius

contained 5000 citizens. Agesilaus laid siege to the

city, which held out for a year and eight months.

