1004 SINAI.

must suffice. There seems, then, to be no question

that the site of Horeb via traditionally known to the

Israelites for many centuries after the Exodus (1

Kinys, xix. 8); and if so, it is improbable that it

■was subsequently lost, since its proximity to Elath

and Ezion tieber, which were long in their posses­

sion, would serve to ensure the perpetuity of the

tradition. It is worthy of remark that Joseph us

nowhere uses the name Horeb, but in the passage

parallel to that above cited from the 1st book of

Kings, as uniformly throughout his history, substi­

tutes to Stvutoy o^os, — so far confirming the iden­

tity of locality indicated by the two names, learnedly

maintained by Dr. Lepsius, who holds Horeb to be

an Amalekite appellative equivalent in signification

with Sin, both signifying "earth made dry by

draining off the water." which earth he finds in the

large mounds of alluvial deposit in the l>cd of Wudy

Fariin, at the northern base of Scrbal, his Sinai.

Buztorf, however, cites rabbinical authorities for

another etymology of Sinai, derived from the nature

of the rock in the vicinity. (See Skate's Travels,

4to. p. 443, and note 7.) Joseph us does not in any

way identify the site; but Kusebius and St. Jerome

have been erroneously miiler.stood to describe Serbal

under the name Sina, when they say that Pharan was

south of Arabia, next to the desert of the Saracens,

through which the children of Israel journeyed when

they decamped from Sina (OrumcuL $.v. Pharan.)-,

for they obviously confound the city of Paran with the

wilderness mentioned in Numbers (xii. xiii. 3);

and the description is so vague as to prove only their

ignorance, if not of the true site of the city Pharan

(which they place 3 days east of Alia), at least of

the utter want of nil connection between this and

the desert of Zin, which is Paran; and in this, as in

other passages, on which much reliance has been

placed in this discussion, it is clear that they are not

writing from any local knowledge, but simply draw­

ing deductions from the Scripture narrative.—(See

e. g. Onuriuut. s. v. Raphadim), which we are per­

haps equally competent to do. The earliest Chris­

tian writer, then, who can be quoted as a witness to

the true site of the "Mountain of the Law" is

Cusmas Indicopleustes (circ. a. i>. 530), who un­

doubtedly describes Mount Choreb, in the Sinaic

(desert ?), as near to Pharan,about 6 miles distant;

and this Pharan must be the Pharan of the eccle­

siastical annals, whose ruins at the foot of Mount

Serbal have been noticed above. This then is direct

historical testimony in favour of a hypothesis first

started by Burekhardt in modern times, advocated

by Dr. Lepsius, and adopted by Mr. Forster and

others. But then it appears to be the only clear

historical evidence, and must therefore be compared

with that in favour of the existing tradition, which,

as it is accepted in its main features by Drs. Robin­

son and Wilson, Bitter, Mr. Stanley, and other emi­

nent scholars, is obviously not unworthy of regard.

That the present convent of St. Catharine was ori­

ginally founded by the emperor Justinian (about

a. i>. 556), is as certain as any fact in history; and

it is equally difficult to imagine that, at so short an

interval alter the journey of Cosmas, the remem­

brance of the true Sinai could have been lost, and that

the emperor or the monks would have acquiesced in

what they knew to be a fictitious site; for the

mountain had lone; been regarded with veneration by

the monks, who, however, had erected no monastery

before this time, but dwelt in the mountains and

valleys abrat the bush in which God appeared to

Moses. (Eutychii A

1'rocopius, Dt Aetliju

when their monastei

times, it is clear that

be understood. On tl

Cosmas can hardly i

was not originated, 1

erection of Justinian's

argument in favour of

graphical one may be

rectly placed by Dr.

Faran, at the foot of

contestably that Serb

occasion could there

from liephidim, and;

were at the very bw

1, 2). Dr. Lepsius fc

to remove it by insii

live is not to I* impli

mentioned in connects

a paljuihle difficulty

choice of difficulties i

does least violence to I

By far the stronge

identity of Serbal wit

celebrated inscriptions

mountain and in the s

Not that anything cai

these mysterious recor

them is still in its i

respecting them canm

containing them are i

article: but it may

whole of the earliest t

to offer for their cluck

by an early writer W

looked in this discussi

of Cosmas Indicopleur

l*en instructed in wr

logue given in Horeb

in n quiet school, ir

"from whence it con*

you may see in the

all the stations of tl

those parts, which ha1

tains, engraven with

self, who journeyed i

certain Jews also hi

saying that they \x

grimage (&wfpois) of

in such a year, and si

written in our hosteh

acquired the ai t, prac

so that all those placi

tions, preserved even

the unbelievers, as I t

can visit those places

quire and learn cona

the truth." (Cosmas

v. apud Montfaucon, (

p. 205.) On this it

while it is certain tha'

original nor later Heb

nor Chaldaic,—still t

could decipher them,

the most part simi

(the Hamyantic or

which the whole regio

peninsula teems. If,

and very probable con

rock-hewn inscription

