MARSTABAE. MARSYAS. 285

towns. Now as Strabo describes the latter part of

the retreat through a desert track containing only a

few veils, it is obvious that the coast-road was that

followed by the Kuinans aa far as Yembo, already

identified with Nera Come; "the road-distance

between Sabbia and Yembo (about 800 English

miles) allowing, for the entire retreat, the reason­

able average of little more than thirteen miles a-day."

(Fnrrter, Geogr. of Arabia, vol. ii. pp. 277—332.)

III. Amid these various and conflicting theories

there ia not perhaps one single point that can

be regarded as positively established, beyond all

qneatiun: but there are a few which may be

safely regarded as untenable. 1. And first, with

regard to Leuce Come, plausible as its identification

wi;h EUUaura is rendered by the coincidence of

Dame, there seem to be two inseparable objections to

il: first, that the author of the Periplus places the

harbour and castle of Leuce two or three days' sail

from Myos llormus (for Mr. Forster's gloss is quite

inadmissible), while EUUaura is considerably more

tisn double that distance, under the most favourable

circumstances; and secondly, that the same author,

in perfect agreement with Strabo, places it in the

country of the Nabatbaei, which never could have

extended so far south as Haura. Mr. Forster at­

tempts to obviate this objection by supposing that

t>4h Leuce Come and Nera were sea-ports of the

Nabalhaei beyond their own proper limits, and in

the hostile territory of the Tbamuditea (/. c. p. 284,

note *). But this hypothesis is clearly inconsistent

with the author of the Periplus, who implies, and

*ith Strabo, who asserts, that Leuce Come lay in  
the territory of the Kabathaei (^«* «J Aev/cV

tinijv ttjs HaSaralwv fris, tfurofmor ptya), a state­

ment which is further confirmed by the fact that

Xrra Come, which all agree to have been south of

Leuce. is also placed by Strabo in the territory of Obo-

das, the king of the Nabatbaei {tori 8« rijs 'OSdoa).

Leuce cannot therefore be placed further south than

ilmlah, as Gosselin, Vincent, and Jomard all agree;

til Nera must be sought a little to the south of this,

far Jomard has justly remarked that Strabo, in con­

trasting the time occupied in the advance and in

the retreat, evidently draws his comparison from a

calculation of the same space (/. e. p. 385). 2.

With regard to the site of Marsyabae, it may be re-

narked that its identification with Mariaba, the

jnetr.rpnlis of the Sabaei, the modem M&reb, main­

tained by D'Anville, Fresncl, and Jomard, is inad­

missible' for ttie following reasons: first, that dis­

tinct mention having been made of the latter by

Strabo, it is not to be supposed that he would im-

awdiatelv mention it with a modification of its name,

and assign it to another tribe, the Khamanitne: and

it U an uncritical method of removing the difficulty

suggested by M. Jomard without the authority of

MSS\,—"* il faut lire partout Mariaba; le mot Mar~

nabn est corrompu e"videmment." Secondly, whether

ta» Marisi-a Baramalacum of Pliny be identified with

Strain's Marsyabae or no, and whatever becomes of

tV piattsible etymology of this epithet, suggested

Wt [<ean Vincent (quasi Bahr em-Mulac=the royal

rrtrrrow). the fact remains the same, that the

Mariaba of the Sabaeans was abundantly supplied

»oh water from numerous rivulet* collected in its

rnttwned Tank; and that therefore, as Gosselin

remarks, drought was the last calamity to which

the Romans would have been exposed in such a

Ideality. 3. With regard to Anagrana and Negra,

«■ the identity of which with the modern Nedjran

there is a singular agreement among all commenta­

tors, there seems to bo an insuperable objection to

that also, if Strabo, who it must be remembered

had his information direct from Gallus himself, is a

trustworthy guide; for the Anagrana of the re­

treat (which is obviously also the Negra of Pliny),

nine days distant from Marsyabae, was the place

where the battle had been fought on their advance.

But he had said before that this battle was fought

at the river; and there is no mention of a river

nearer to Nedjran than the Sancan, which is. ac­

cording to Mr. Forster, 170 miles, or twelve days'

journey, distant. It is certainly strange that, of tho

writers who have commented on this expedition, all,

with one exception, have overlooked the only indi­

cation furnished by the classical geographers of the

direction of the line of march,—clearly pointing to

the west, and not to the south. The Mariaba taken

by the Romans was, according to Pliny, that of tho

Calingii, whom he places in the vicinity of the I'er-

tian Gulf; for he names two other towns of the same

tribe, Pallon and Urannimal or Muranima), which

he places near the river by which the Euphrates is

thought to debouche into the Persian Gulf (vi. 28),

opposite to the Bahrein islands. (Forster, vol. ii.

p. 312.) This important fact is remarkably con­

firmed by the expedition having landed near the

mouth of the Elani tic gulf of the Red Sea, and com­

mencing their march through the territory of Obodas

and his kinsman Aretas, two powerful sheikhs of tho

Nabathaei, who inhabited the northern part of tho

Arabian peninsula from the Euphrates to the pe-

ninsula of Mount Sinai [Nabathaei], and there

can be little doubt that the Mariaba of Pliny is cor­

rectly identified with the Merab, still existing at the

eastern base of the Nedjd mountains. [Mariaba,

No. 3.] Whether this be the Marsyabae of Strabo,

or whether future investigations in the eastern part

of the peninsula, hitherto so imperfectly known, may

not restore to us both this and other towns men­

tioned in the lists of Strabo and Pliny, it is impos­

sible to determine. At any rate, the very circuitous

route through Nedjd to Yemen, marked out by Mr.

Forster, and again his line of the retreat, seem to in­

volve difficulties and contradictions insurmountable,

which this is not the place to discuss; and with regard

to the supposed analogy of the modern names, it may

be safely assumed that an equal amount of ingenuity

might discover like analogies in any other parts of

Arabia, even with the very scanty materials that we

at present have at command. In conclusion, it may

be remarked that the observation of Strabo that the

expedition had reached within two days' journey of

the country of the Frankincense, is of no value what­

ever in determining the line of inarch, as there were

two districts so designated, and there is abundant

reason to doubt whether either in fact existed; and

that the reports brought home by Gallus and pre­

served by Pliny, so far as they prove anything,

clearly indicate profound ignorance of the nature

and produce of Yemen, which some authors supjiose

him to have traversed, for we are in a position to

assert that so much of his statement concerning the

Sabaei as relates to their wealth—" silvanun fcrtili-

tate odorifera, auri metallis "—is pure fiction. The

question of the confusion of the various Mariabas. and

their cognate names, is discussed by Ritter with his

usual abilitv. (Erdhmde von Arabian, vol. i.

pp. 276—284.) [G. \\\]

MA'RSYAS (Mapo-uar). 1. A tributary of tho

Maeander, having its sources in the district called

