N1LUS. NILUS.

hippopotamus is represented on tlie monuments of

tii-' Thebaid, but not on those of Middle or Lower

Aegypt. The crocodile was caught with a hook

baited with the chine of .1 pit; (Herod, ii. 68), or

with nets. (Diodor. i. 35.) It was an object of

worship in some nomes [Arsinoe; U.viios], of ab­

horrence in others [Tentyka.]

The boats of the Nile, as represented on the monu­

ments, exhibit a prat variety of size and form.

There wits the canoe, made of a single trunk; the

shall"p of papyrus, rendered water-tight by bitumen;

and there were even vessels constructed of light

earthenware. (Juven. &it. xv. 129.) The most

usual species of craft, however, is a boat whose bow

and stern are high out of the water, square rigged,

with sails either of canvass or papyrus, a single

liia-j that could be lowered in high winds, and a

shallow keel, in order to allow uf easy extrication of

the vessel should it run aground. But the most

striking and capacious boat employed on the Nile

wai tlie large Baris, used for the transportation

of goods. (Herod, ii. 96.) It was built of the

hard wood of the Sunt (Acon(fie); the sails were

made of papyrus, and the seams caulked with an

oakum co:n[rt>sed from the fibres of that plant.

These barges were propelled by as many as forty

rowers ranged on the same level, and their tonnage

amounted to three, four, and even five hundred

tons. These Bans wen- towed up the stream, if the

wind were ti"t strong enough to impel them against

it, or floated down it, with combined action of sail

and oars, and steered by one or more large paddles

at the stern. Parties of pleasure, visits of ceremony,

and marriage processions, alike added to the fioatiug

population of the river; but perhaps the most im­

pressive spectacles which it presented were the

j-omp ami circumstance of funerals. On the tombs

of Speos Artemidos (Bentfiassan) is depictured

the barge of Amenemhe conveying the females

of his house. It has an awning like a gondola,

and is one of the half-decked boats (aKd<pai

j&aAa^Tr>oi) of which Strabo speaks (xvii. p. 800).

In such a vessel Caesar intended, but lor the indig­

nant murmurs of his legions, to have ascended the

Nile with Cleopatra from Alexandria to the first

C itaract. (Sueton. Jul. ">$.) The tomb of Rameses

IV. at Thelws exhibits a royal barge. The hall,

the cabin (-ddAauws). tlie rudder, and the masts are

painted of a gold colour; the sails are diapered and

fringed with various brilliant hues; the phoenix and

the vulture are embroidered upon them. The eye

of 0>iris is painted on the rudder, and its handles

represent the royal emblems—the uracils ami the

p.ickvnt, or head of a divinity. The splendour of

the Bans on the monuments recalls that ot the vessel

which cairied Cleopatra up the Cydnus to meet

M. Antonius at Tarsus. (Plut. Anton, c. 26.)

It was a favourite amusement of the Aegyptians,

in later times especially, to row rapidly in boats,

and hurl and thrust at one another as they passed

blunl javelins or jerufo. Such a scene is repre­

sented on the tomb of Imai at Gizeh, one of the

oldest monuments of Aegypt. They delighted also

in sailing up and down the river-arms and lakes

of the Delta, and feasting under the shadow of the

tall reeds, and Aegyptian bean, which there attains

a height of many feet (Strab. xvii. p. 823, and

generally Rosellini, Monumeiiti Cirili.)

The Nile was also frequently the stage on which

the great religious festivals or panegyrics were

celebrated. On such solemnities the population of

1 entire nomes poured themselves forth. Or, '>

I day of the feast of Artemis at Bubasfc\ t»

inhabitants of the Delta thronged the nrdb mi

main streams, while thousands descend*! bm

1 the middle country and the Thebaid to he fft-

sent at the ceremonies. The decks of th» Bra

were crowded with devotees of either sex, and til

: loud music of the pij# and cymbal was ttw&

I panied by songs and hymns, and clapping of bini*

As they neared any town the passengers ran the br;*i

! along shore and recruited their numbers with frtsl

votaries. As many as 700,000 persona, rtc!a.-ot<i

children, were sometimes assembled at Biibvus,a

1 at the equally popular festival of Isis at Brani

Numerous sacrifices were offered in the temp-**

the goddesses, and, whether in libations or in n

velry, more wine was consumed on these occa*«i

than in all the rest of the year. (Comp. Heroil

61, fi2, with Clemens Alexand. Cohort vol.L a. 1*.

That the Nile should have been an object of «m

I ship with the Aegyptians, and that its imxzt »

phenomena should have entered deeply into uV

! whole religious system, was unavoidable. As n

garded its external aspect, it flowed bet« pen «

] and rock, the sole giver and sustainer of life in t!s

'valley of death: it was, both in its increment n*i i

I decrease, in its course through va*t soiiiutie?-m

thronged populations alternately, the most su^pe*

and expressive of emblems for a religion whiea 1

'presented in such marked contrast, the reaixs

1 creation and destruction, of O&iriss and

I The Nile — as Oceanus, or the watery etaaeaV

| was a member of the first Ogdnad of tl«e Aefypo

I theology (Diodor. i. 6 — 26). the opponent of i'^a

I the elemental fire, and the companion of ih* as

(Demeter), the air (Xeith), Zeus or Amnn, t

quickening spirit, Osiris and Isis, the 5>ufl i

'Moon. It was thus one of the primitive; es^nc

higher than any member of the second Ogdcad. <*1

vi&ible objects of adoration. (Heliod. AftMcp.

9: Schol. in PimL Pt/th. iv. 99.) It had its «

hieratic emblem on the monuments, somefcTT"?*

the Ocean embracing the earth, sometimes, as in 1

l temple of Osiris at l'hilae, as the as>iMant of Ttd

in the creation of Osiris. The wild crocodile «M

j emblem of Typhon (I'lutarch, Is. et Onr.p. 37

'but the tamed crocodile was the symbol ot" the C*

swelling, beneficent Nile. (Eoseb. 1'rasp.

hi. 11.) Osiris i-s sometimes, but incomctiv. i

j (Tibull. Eleg. i. 7, 27) to be the Nile itself (P

'/*. ft Osir. c. 33): there is no doubt, howe^rr, t

j it was personified and received divine bosonn

festival called Niloa was celebrated at the tin

, the first rise of the waters, i. e. about the oor^

solstice, at which the priests were acc-is*;tr'. 1

drop pieces of coin, and the Roman prefect >i

1 Thebaid golden ornaments, into the n\er near P!

(Senee. Nat. Quaest. iv. 2, 7); indeed ther? 1

have been a priesthood specially dedicated la

great river, since, according to Herodotus (n. 1

I none but a priest of the Nile could bary Llje cn

of a person drowned in its waters- Tempies'

1 rarely appropriated to the Nile alone; yet

I cataeus ((*/>. Steph. s. v. KtlXos) speak* m" xt

the town of Neil us, which stood iu the Hrrs

1 polite nome, near the entrance of the f*ye*m.

I the quarries at SilsiUs several stelae jut in**1

I with acts of adoration to the river, who is joirvd

I'hre and l'htah. Its symbol in hirrvy It ^-i

read 3/oow, and the last in the group at* u*e 1

acters composing it, is a symbol of water. Area

