940 SCYTHIA. SCYTHIA.

{av^p'tyovoC) are tbo most famous. They pot

their art from Aphrodite, as they got their ailment.

During the Scythian invasion of Asia, a portion of

the conquerors plundered the temple of the Aphro­

dite Urania in Ascalon, for which sacrilege they and

their children were afflicted with SyXtiavoitoos, the

names of the sufferers being 'L>ap€«i (i. 105, 106).

The nature of tins &j)\eia vovaos has yet to be

f-atisfactorily explained.

The saceniotal and regal relations are curious.

When the king ails he calls his priests, who tell him

that his ailment conies from some one having fore­

sworn himself in the greatest oath a Scythian can

take. This is " by the heart It of the king." Take

it falsely, and the king will sicken. Upon sickening,

however, lie sends for the offender, whom the priests

bare indicated. The charge is denied. Other priests

are sent fur. If their vaticinations confirm the

earlier ones, death and confiscation are the fate of

the perjurer. Otherwise, a third set is culled.

If these agree in the condemnation of the first, a

load of faggots, drawn by bullocks, is brought in,

the lying priests have their hands bound behind

thein, the faggots are set a-Hght to, the beasts are

goaded into a gallop, the flames catch the wind, the

men are burnt to death, and the bullocks scorched,

dinged, or burnt to death also. The sons of the of­

fending perjurer are killed, his daughters left

unhurt.

Their oaths were made over a mixture of wine

and blood. The swearers to them punctured them­

selves, let their blood fall into a vat of wine, drank

the mixture, and dipped in it their daggers, arrows,

javelin, and vdyapts.

The ferocity exhibited in their burials was of the

same kind. The tombs of the kings were on the

Gerrhos. Thither they were brought to be buried,

wherever they might die. They were entombed

with sacrifices both of beasts and men, Hippo-

thimia, Anthrnjxithysia, and Suttee—all these cha­

racterised the funeral rites of the Scythians SiKaioro-

toi avOpwircav.

LANGUAGE.—The specimens of this full into two

divisions, the Proper and the Common Names. The

former are the names of geographic*] localities and

individuals. In one way or the other, they are nu­

merous; at least they apjiear so at first, but we

rarely are sure that the fact itself coincides with

the first presumptions. The names of the rivers

have l>een noticed. Of thoae of the gods, none have

been definitely traced to any known language in re­

spect to their meaning. Neither have they been

traced to any known mythology as Proper Names.

Next come the names of certain kings and other

historical individuals, none of which have given any

very satisfactory place for the old Pythian.

With the Common Names (and under the class of

Common Names we may place such Proper Names

as are capable of being translated) the results im­

prove, though only slightly. Of these terms the

chief are the following:—

(i.) 'E^M/intosbSacred Waytmm\pai OSoc, the

name of a well-head. [See*. ('"■) Oi6prraTa=

ai'5f)oKT6vot= Men-killers, a name applied by the

Scythians to the Amazons. Here olbp = man,

■Karat= kill (ir. 110). (in-) Tevierinda — Mater

Maris, applied to the Kuxine. This is not from

Herodotus, hut from Pliny (vi. 7). (iv.) Arimaspi

= V[<av6<t>Ba\fxni,= one-eyed — By Mia m one, airov=

eye. (Herod, iv. 27 ) These will be considered

under the head of Ethnology.

History.—The Herodotean view of van vr&aa

is incomplete without a notice of the historical pet

of his account; not that the two piru are, fef i

means, on the same level in the wit of t

information. The geography and distriptiaa I

from contemporary sources. The history ■ ■

less traditional. Taking it, however, at vt MI

it falls into two divisions:—1, The Inrasincf J

by the Scythians; and 2, The Urates of I

by Darius.

1. Invasion of Asia by the SeytHans.—hi

reigns of Cy ax ares king of Media and of £

king of Lydia, the Scythians invade AsU. \

directly. They had previously invaded the e

of the Cimmerians, whom they had driven fi

own districts on the Maeolis, and who w»l

thrown southwards. The Scythians pressed taeC

merians, the Massagetae the Scythia

cause and effect of this kind are much 1

historians. It Is only, however, in the c

lions of history that they can pass

The Cimmerians take Sardis during th* art J

of the reign of Ardys (b, c. 629.) They i

pelled by Alyattes, his son. (Herod. L!

It seems that the Cimmerians were folW*i■

their ejectors; inasmuch as fire yi

(b. c. 624) the Scythians themselves are u J

Cyaxares, who was engaged upon the siert ef 1

veh (N'iiius), being called back, to oppose X

is defeated; and the Scythians occupy An I

years, Cyaxares surviving their Heparan*.

Media they direct their eoeurs towards Y

the invasion of which ihey are diverted feyfl

mitichus. Their attack upon the [■•.;>-

Venus Urania, in Ascalon, daring their

though Palestine, along with its iny>terioo»J

has been already noticed. The king wbe i

was named Madyes. (Her. L 1*0.)

ejected B. c. 596.

There was a bund of Scythians, however, s

in the reign of Croesus, b. c. 58o. the i

which is as follows. Cyaxares, still

ceives a company («&w) of Scjtl

pliants, who escape (va-t^r/Atb) from LT«

Media. He treats them well, and

them to learn the use of the bow, aioag i

Scythian language, until lie finds that t

of hunting and robbing are intolerable,

with a particular act of atrocity,

axares to eject them. They fly back to .

who refuses to give them up. But

and the quarrel is entailed upon his

The battle that it led to was foaght Mat |

585, when the eclipse predicted by

rupted it.

The Scythian invasion might easily be I

in its general features to both the Graaka I

and the Jews; and, accordingly. *e £nd I

allusions to an invasion of northern I

in the Scriptures and in the fragments at 1

Greek poets, to justify us in treating k .

fact, however destitute of confirmation

Herodotean details may have i

Critical History, ifc. vol. iiL p. 133, sec.)

further removed from his time than

2. /nvasion of Scythia by Darims.—It is, ]

a more accurate piece of history.

Scythia for the sake of inflicting a

for the previous invasion of Asia. Tnaa i

fallowed, not by any settlement of the i

elsewhere, but by a

