:35G PATAVISSA. PATAVIUM.

the eastward of the river Xanthus, and consist " of a

theatre excavated in tlie northern side of a small

hill, a ruined temple on the side of the same hill, I

and a deep circular pit, of (lingular appearance,

which may have been the seat of the oracle. The

town walls surrounded an area of considerable ex­

tent; they may easily be traced, as well as the j

situation of a castle which commanded the harbour,'

and of several towers which flanked the walls. On

the outside of the walls there is a multitude of stone i

sarcophagi, most of (hem bearing inscriptions, hut I

al« open and empty; and within the walls, temples,

altars, pedestals, and fragment*) of sculpture appear i

in profusion, but ruined and mutilated. The situation

of the harbour is st ill apparent, but at present it is

a swatnp, choked up with sand and bushes." (Beau­

fort, Karmania, pp. *J, 6.) The theatre, of which

a plan is given in Leake's Asia Minor (p. -'120),

was built in the reign of Antoninus Pius; its

diameter is 26j feet, and has about 30 rows of

seats. There are also ruins of thermae, which, ac­

cording to an inscription upon them, were built by

Vespasian. (Comp. Sir C. Fellows, Tour in Asia

Mm. p. 222, fnll.; Diseav. in Lycia, p. 179, foil.;

Texier, Descript. tie I'Asie Min., which contains

numerous representations of the ancient remains of

Patara; Spratt and Forbes, Travels in Lycia. i.

p. 3Uf.ll.) [L.S.]

PATAVISSA (Xlarpovitraa, Ptol. iii. 8. § 7,

wrongly), a small town of Dacia, endowed by the

emperor Severus with the jus coloniae. (Ulpian,

Dig. i. S. 9, where it is called Patavicensium vicus.)

Variously identified with Mar-Vjvar, or with Ptovis

or Tot'is, on the Marosch; also with Bogatz and St.

Kiraly. on a tributary of the same river. [T.H.D.]

PATA'VIUM (Tlaraovioy: Eth. Patavinus: Pa-

dora), one of the most ancient and important cities

of Venetia, situated on the river Medoacus (Brenta),

about 30 miles from its mouth. According to a

tradition recorded by Virgil, and universally received

in antiquity, it was founded by Antenor, whoesca.|*d

thither after the fall of Troy; and I,ivy, himself a

native of ttie city, confirms this tradition, though he

d'>es not mention the name of Patavium, but de­

scribes the whole nation of the Veneti as having

migrated to this part of Italy under the guidance

of Antenor. Me identifies them with the Heneti, who )

were mentioned by Homer as a Paphlagonian tribe.

(Lie. i. I; Virg. A en. i. 247; Si rah. v. p. 212;

Mel. ii. 4. § 2; Solin. 2. § 10.) The national

affinities of the Veneti are considered elsewhere

[Venf.tt]. The story of Antenor may saf<ly be

rejected as mythical; but we may infer from the

general accordance of ancient writers that Patavium

itself was a Venetian city, and apparently from an

early period I he capital or chief place of the nation.

We have very little information as to its history,

before it became subject to Home, and we know

only the general fact that it was at an early period

nn opulent and flourishing city: Strabo even tells

us that it could send into the field an army of

120,(100 men, hut this is evidently an exaggeration,

and probably refers to the whole natiun of the

Veneti, of which it was the capital. (Strab. v.

p 213.) Whatever was the origin of the Veneti,

there seems no doubt they were a people far more

advanced in civilisation than the neighbouring Gauls,

with whom they were on terms of almost continual

hostility. The vigilance rendered necessary by the

incursions of the Gauls stood them in stead on occa­

sion of the unexpected attack of Cleonymus the |

Lacedaemonian, who in n. c. 301 landed it thi

mouth of the Medoacus, bnt was attacked hyJt

Pat avians, and the greater part of his iurm cat *

(Liv. x. 2.)

It was doubtless their continual hostility wii

the Gauls that led the Venetians to becnow u

allies of Home, as soon as that pjww betaa t»«

tend its arms into Cisalpine Gaul. (IM. u.i\

No special mention of Patavium occurs dviiif'J

wars that followed; and we are left to infcf

analogy the steps by which this independent a

passed gradually under the dependence tai 3

tection of Rome, till it ultimately became an ?i

nary municipal town. In n. c. 174 it i? ekai tt

it still retained at least a semblance of inttavaC"*

as we hear that it was distracted with

dissensions, which the citizens appealed to K "w

pacify, and the consul M. Aemilius wis st^t*i

deputy for the purpose. (Liv. xli. 27 ) Bit I

prosperity of Patavium continued uiihrokea:

this it was indebted as much to the manofartaf

industry of its inhabitants as to the natural terti

of its territory. The neighbouring hilU hrk

abundance of wool of excellent quality: and I

supplied the material for extensive w,. .

factures, w hich seem to have been the ftafk a?

of the tiade of Patavium, that city suppling B

in the time of Augustus with all the finer ana l

costly kinds of carpets, hangings. &c-

these, however, it carried on many other fcftfl

of manufactures also; and so ereat was tk* *i

arising from these sources that, accord ir£ to H

Patavium was the only city of Italy, excec* B

that could return to the census not les* lino

jxTsons of fortunes entitling them tneqwstruT''

(Strab. iii. p. 169, v. pp! 213, 218.) We a

wonder, therefore, that both he and Mela *f*i

it as unquestionably the first citv in th» jsl

Italy. (Id. v. p. 213; -Mela. ii. 4. § 2 )

The Patavians had been fortunate in esowa

ravages of war. During the Civil Wars tfarJ

is scarcely mentioned; but we learn fnKn <

that in B. C. 43 they took part writfl tfc* *

against M. Antonins, and refused to rerti^i

emissaries. (Cic. Phil, xii. 4.) It was yn

in consequence of this, that at a later pr >J

were severely oppressed by the exaction? td \

Pollio. (Macrob. Sat. i.' II. § 22.) In a.

Patavium was occupied without oppiutpc I

generals of Vespasian, Primus, and V*ruv,J

their advance into Italy. (Tac. Hist, iii 6)

its good fortune in this respect there eaa

doubt that Patavium continued ck-wTi te I

j>eri'xi of the Empire to be a rl'>urishinir xfg ■

city, though it seems to have be*ti gTadoauN*

by the increasing prosperity of A«>uil-ii a: £ I

lanum. Hence Ausunius, writinc in ti*

century. d<*>s not even assign it a pi»cr m bl

Nohilium Urbium. But its long perx<i >*' p-«a

was abruptly brought to a ch*>e. In a. ia

felt the full fury of Attila, who. after tt« r»s

Aquileia, which had long resisteU hi* %nc

waste almost without opposition The ret-v c|

of Venetia. He is said to have otterjt 4a

and razed to the ground Patavium. m vn, i

rordia and Altinum (P. Diac. Hist M*m^%X

549); and, according to a tradition, whica.

not supported by contemporary t^tdrac* s »

well founded, it was on this occasion \Kai

number of fugitives from the fanner htt t^jj

in the islands of the lag lines, and then fcmjs

