166 LESBOS. LESORA MOXS.

portant (Tlincyd. viii. 5, 22, 23, 32, 100). It wis

near the coast of this Inland that the last great naval

virtory of the Athenians during the war was won,

that of Conon over Callicratidas at Arginusae. On

the destruction of the Athenian force by Lysander

at Acgospotami, it fell under the power of Sparta;

but it was recovered for a time by Thrasybulus

(Xrn. Hell iv. 8. §§ 28—30). At the peace of

Antalcidas it ww declared inde[indent. From this

time to the establishuwnt of the Macedonian empire

it is extremely difficult to fix the fluctuations of the

history of Lesbos in the midst of the varying influ­

ences of Athens, Sparta, and Persia.

After the battle of the Granicus, Alexander made

a treaty with the Lesbians. Memnon the Khodian

took Mytilene and fortified it, and died there. Af­

terwards llegelochus reduced the various cities of

the inland under the Macedonian power. (For the

history of these transaction* see Arrian, ExpetL Ahx.

iii. 2; Curt. Hist. Alex. iv. 5.) In the war of the

Romans with l'erseus, l,abeo destroyed Antissa for

aiding the Macedonians, and incorporated its inha­

bitants with those of Methymna (Liv. xlv. 31. Hence

perhaps the true explanation of Pliny's remark,

I. c). In the course of the Mithridatic War, Mytilene

incurred the displeasure of the lt-^mans by delivering

up M". Aquillios (Veil. Pat. ii 18; Appian, Mithr.

21). It was also the last city which held out after

the close of the war, and was reduced by M. Minucius

Thennus,—an occasion on which Julius Caesar dis­

tinguished himself, and earned a civic crown by

saving the life of a soldier (Liv. EpiU 89; Suet.

Caes. 2; see Cic. contra Hull. ii. 16). Pompey,

however, was induced by Theophanes to make My­

tilene a free city (Veil. Pat. 1. c; Strab. xiii. p.

617), and he left there his wife and son during the

campaign which ended at Pharsalia. (Appian, Ii. C.

ii. 83; Pint. Ptnnp. 74,75.) From this time we

are to regard Le»bos as a part of the Roman province

of Am a, witb Mytilene distingni>hed as its chief

city, and in the enjoyment of privileges more par­

ticularly described elsewhere. We may mention here

that a few imperial coins of Lesbos, as distinguished

from those of the cities, are extant, of the reigns of

M. Anrelius and Commodua, and with the legend

KOINON AECBinN(KckbellvoLu.p.501;Mionnet,

vol. iii. pp. 34. 35).

In the new division of provinces under Constantine,

Lesbos was placed in the Protineia, Insutarum

(HierocL p 686, ed. Wesseling). A few detached

notices of its fortunes during tin* middle ages are all

that can be given here. On the 15th uf August,

a.i>. 802, the empress Irene ended ber extraordinary

life here in exile. (See Le Bean, Hist. </« Bom Empire,

vol. xii. p. 400.) In the thirteenth century, con-

tcinporaneoiL-dy with the first crusade, Lesbos began

to be affected by the Turkish conquests: Tzachas,

Emir o\ Smyrna, succeeded in taking Mytilene, but

failed in his attempt on Methymna. (Anna Comn.

Alex. lib. vii. p. 362, ed. Bonn.) Alexis, however,

sent an eipediiion to retake Mytilene, and was suc­

cessful (lb. ix. p. 425). In the thirteenth century

I^sboK w«a in the power of the Latin emperors of

Constantinople, bat it was recovered to the Greeks

by Joannes Ducas Vatatzes, emperor of Xicaea (see

bis life in the Diet, of Butgraphf). In the fourteenth

century Joannes Palaeologus gave his sister in

marriage to Francisco Gnteliizxin, and the island of

Lesbos as a dowry; and it continued in the possession

of this family till its final absorption in the TurkMi

empire (Ducas, Hut Hyzant. p. 46, ed. lhmn). It

appears, however, that these princes were tributary

to the Turks (lb. p. 328). In 1457. Mahomet II.

made an unsuccessful assault on Methymna, in cud-

sequence of a suspicion that the Lesbians had ii>d

the Catalan buccaneers (lb. p. 338; see also Vert-4,

Hist, de lOrdre de Matte, ii. 258). He did ont

actually take the island till 1462. The history of

the annalist Ducas himself is closely connected with

Lesbos: he resided there after the fall of Constan­

tinople; he conveyed the tribute from the reining

Gateluzzio to the sultan at Adrianople; and the l»>t

paragraph of his history is an unfinished account

of the final catastrophe of the island.

This notice of Lesbos would be very incompltte,

unless something were said of its intellectual emi­

nence. In reference to poetry, and especially poetry

in connection with music, no island of the Grerks i*

so celebrated as Lesbos. Whatever other explana­

tion we may give of the legend concerning the b«d

and lyre of Orpheus being carried by the wave* to

its shores, we may take it as an expression of tat

fact that here was the primitive seat of* the muse of

the lyre. Leeches, the cyclic minstrel, a native of

Pyrrha, was the first of its series of poets. Ter-

pander, though his later life was chiefly connertnl

with the Peloponnesus, was almost certainly a native

of Lesbos, and probably of Antissa: Artoo, of Me­

thymna, appears to have belonged to his Reboot; and

no two men were so closeiy connected with the early

history of Greek music. The names of Alcaeus and

Sappho are the most imperishable elements iu tL«

renown of Mytilene. The latter was aotnetiriii

called the tenth Muse (as in Plato's epigram, lar*-

AtoS6$*y if 5«*dVn); and a school of j«wtR***

(Lesbiadum turba, Ovid, Her. xv.) seems to lisve

been formed by her. Here, without entering into the

discussions, by Welcker and others, concerning the

character of Sappho herself, we must slate that tbe

women of Lesbos were as famous for their proflicary

as their beauty. Their beauty is celebrated by H<>nwr

(//. ix. 129, 271), and, as regards their profligacy,

the proverbial expression k*a€id£*i* affixes a worse

stain to their island than Kfrrrrifrw does to Crete.

I^esbos seems never to have produced any dis­

tinguished painter or sculptor, but Hellanico* and

Theophanes the friend of Pompey are wi-rtby uf

being mentioned among historians; and Pittacas,

Theophrastus, and Cratippus are known in the

annals of philosophy and science. Pittacns w*»

famous also as a legislator. These eminent rwn

were all natives of Mytileue, with the exception of

Theophrastus, who was bom at Kresus.

The fullest account of Lesbos is the treatise of

S. L. Plehn, Lesbiacorum Liber, Berlin, 1826. la

this work is a map of the island; but the Kngh-b

Admiralty charts should be consulted, op»rxillT

Nos. 1654 and 1665. Forbiger refers to reviews of

Plehn s work by Meter in the UalL AUg. Lit /«*

for 1827, and by O. MUllcr in the GoHL GeL Am.

for 1828; also to Lander's Beitntt/f rw AW*

der Insel Lexbos, Hamb. 1827. Information r*?aro-

ing the modern condition of the island will be ob­

tained from Pooocke, Tuurnefort, Kichter, and Pre-

kesch. [J. & R]

LF/SORA MOXS (Mont Lotere\ a summit of

the Ceeennes, above 4800 feet high, it mtrtjeoed by

Sklonius Apolliuarie (Carm. 24, 44) as

the source of the Taraia (Tarn):—

u Hinc te Lesora Caucasum S-ytliarum

Vincent, aaptciet citnjqne Taraia.''

