1148 THEBAE BOEOTIAE. THEBAE B0E0T1AL

the other Boeotian towns. A democratic^! form of

government was established in the different cities,

and the oligarchical leaders were driven into exile,

(Time. i. 1U8; Diod. xi. 81.) This state of things

lifted barely ten years; the democracy est a!») is lied

at Thebes was ill-conducted (Arist. PoL v. 2.

§ 0); and in li.c. 447 the various Boeotian exiles,

combining their forces, made themselves masters of

Orchomenus, Chacroueia, and some other places.

The Athenians sent an army into Boeotia under the

command of Tolmides; but this general was slain in

battle, together with many of his men, while a still

larger number were taken prisoners. To recover these

prisoners, the Athenians agreed to relinquish their

power over Thebes and the other Boeotian cities.

Thedemocratica] irovi-rnments were overthrown; the

exiles were restored; and Theltes again became the

bitter enemy of Athens. (Tbuc. i. 113, iii. C2;

Diod. xii. 6.) The 1 hebans were indeed more anti-

Athenian than were the Startans themselves, and

were the first to commence the I'einponncMan War

by their attempt to surprise 1'lataea in the night,

B.C. 431. The history of this attempt, and of the

sub*eqiient siege and capture of the city, in-longs to

the history of l'lataea. [Pi.ataka.] Throughout

the iVloponnesiun War llie Thebans continued the

active and hitter enemies of the Athenians; and upon

its dose after the battle of Aegospotami they joined

the Corinthians in urging the Lacedaemonians to

destroy Athens, and sell its population into slavery.

(Xen. Hell. ii. 2. § 19.) But soon after this event

the feelings of the Thebans towards Athens became

materially changed in consequence of their jealousy

of Sparta, who had refused the allies all participation

in the spoil* of the war, and who now openly aspired

to the supremacy of Greece. (Plut. I.ys. 27; Justin,

vi. ID.) They consequently viewed with hostility

the Thirty Tyrants at Athena as the supporters of the

Spartan [wwer, and gave a friendly welcome to the

Athenian exiles. It was from Thebes that Thrasy-

buldB and the other exiles started upon their enter­

prise of seizing the l*eiraeeus; and they were sup­

ported u|M»n this occasion by lsmeniaa and other

Theban citizens. (Xen. fhll. ii. 4. § 2.) So im­

portant was the assistance retidered by the Thebans

on this occasion that Thasybulus, after his success,

showed bis gratitude by dedicating in the temple of

Hercules colossal statues of this god and Athena.

(Pans, ix. 11. § 6.)

The hostile feelings of Thebes towards Sparta

continued to im-rcase, and soon produced the moat

important results. When Agesilaus was crossing

over into Asia in b. C. 3'J7, in order to carry on

war against the Persians, the Thebans refused to

take any part in the exjicdition, and they rudely

interrupted Agesilaus when lie was in the act of

ottering sacrifices at Aulis, in imitation of Aga­

memnon; an insult which the Spartan king never

forgave. (Xen. Hell. iii. 5. § 5; Plut. Ayts. 6:

Pans. iii. U. §§ 3—5.) During the absence of

Agesilaus in Asia, Tilhraustes, the satrap of Asia

Minor, sent an envoy to Greece to distribute large

sums of money among the leading men in the

Grecian cities, in order to persuade them to make

war against Sparta. But before a coalition could

be formed for this purpose, a separate war broke

out between Thebes and Sparta, tailed by Diodoras

(xiv. 81) the Boeotian war. A quarrel having

arisen between the Opuntian Locrians and the

Phocians respecting a strip of border land, the

Thebans espoused the cause of the former und

Invaded Phocis. Thereupon the l*boca» -itH

the aid of the Lacedaemonians, who werr frirkal

to have an opportunity of am^ioc ifc* »r«s»

they hail received from the Tbrbans. (I&M

iii. 5. §§ 3—5; Paua. iii. 9. § 9.) TV Lwsav

monians matle active preparations to knot Bad

I.ysander, who had been foremott

the war, was to lay siege to Hahartaa, i

walls of which town Pausanias was t* ]

a given day with tbe united

Pelopoimesian forces. Thus menaced, th* Taaea

applied for assistance to their ancient «Kna\m

Athenians, who readily responded to taar itsat

though their city was still undefended by u*ss)

they had no ships to resist the martn* f*"*'

Sparta. (Xen. Utll iii. 5. § 16; Ben.* (a*}

258.) Orchomenus, however, seized tat <n*j

tunity to revolt from Thebes, and joined L^aoit

in his attack upon Ilaliartus. (Xen.

§17; Plut. Lys. 28.) The death of Lnsrif

under the walls of Hal art us, which vat feifcaaily

the retreat of Pausanias from Boeotia. eabsmu

the enemies of Sjarta; and not only A: s *

Corinth, Argos, and some of the other Gncaaanm

joined Thebes in a league against Sparu. ht b»j

following year (b. <'. 394) the war was truant'

to the territory of Corinth; and so puauislMm

the confeilerates that tbe Lacedar: n..hi* laanv

Agesilaus from Asia. In tbe month of

Agesilaus reached lloeotia on bis bomewxr: ■nnfl

and fuimd the confederate army drawn as is l|

plain of Coroneia to oppose him. The hfttnfl

and centre of his army were victanoaa, tat fl

Thebans completely defeated tbe OrehnsmH

who formed the left wing. The W'-fcrK^ Tan■

now faced about, in order to regain the res: t*nT

army, which had retreated to Monjt Hnn]

Agesilaus advanced to meet them; ami'

which ensued was one of the most terrini

had yet taken place in Grecian warim.

Thebans at length succeeded in fcrdaf

through, but not without great losa. Tsssi

first time that the Thebans had fongil s

battle with the Spartans; and the cafcar

they showed on this occasion was a preiaav

victories which were soon t«» overthrow tat

snpremacv in Greece. (Xen. UdL a\ ll

15—21.)

We have dwelt upon these everts sasesnM

length in order to explain the rise of u»> Tmnl

power; but the subsequent history mast be anfl

more briefly. After the battle of Cun-r«

of events appeaivd at first to deprive Tfc»*w 4

ascendency she had lately acquired. Tbe nsa*

Antaleidas (u. c. 387), which waa ooorinw s*n

the influence of Sparta, guaranteed the ndeanfcfl

of all the Grecian cities; and tboamgh tneTaaumJ

first claimed to take the oath, not in tnesraM

alone, but for the Boeotian coj

they were compelled by their enemy a\g|

swear to the treaty fur their own city i

otherwise they wuuld have had to causes**

handed with the whole power of Sparta sfj

allies. (Xen. IhlL v. 1. §3 32. 3A) B*

the Thebans virtually renounced their ■

over the Boeotian cities: and A^eaiousi na

exert all the Spartan power for the ]

weakening Thebes. Not only was the sad

of the Boeotian cities pr«claunedTaod a bcu

organised in each city ho&uie to Tbtbm M

able to Sparta, but LacedaemtBuar pea

