INCARUS. ISDIA. 43

goddess Eileithyia is said to have been worshipped

here, and to hare obtained one of her epithets from

it. (Callim, Fr. 168; Pashley, Trav. vol. i. p. 289;

Hix-k. Kreta, vol. i. p. 412.) [E. B. J.]

IXCABUS, on the coast of Gallia Narbonensis, is

placed by the Itm. next to Massilia. It is west of

Massilia, and the distance is 12 M. P. The place

b Carry, which retains its name. The distance of

the ltin. was probably estimated by a boat rowing

al<mg the coast; and a good map is necessary to

show how far it is correct [G. L.]

lNCRICNES (lyKpluns), a tribe of the Sigam-

bri, mentioned only by Ptolemy (ii. 11. § 9). They

apparently occupied the southernmost part of the

territory inhabited by the Sigambri. Some believe

tbem to be the same as the Jnhones of Tacitus

(Ann. xiii. 57), in whose territory an extensive con­

flagration of the soil occurred in A. D. 59. Some

place them near the month of the river Lakn and

the httle town of Engers; while others, with less

prt«oability, regard Ingersheim, on the Neclcar, as

the place once inhabited by the Incriones. [L. S.]

IXDAPKATHAE ('Iromrpaflai, Ptol. viii. 2. § 18,

a name, doubtless, connected with the Sanscrit In-

draprastAa'), a people occupying nearly the same

psitinn as the Ibcrim'iak. [V.]

INDIA (fi 'I^Sio, Polyaen. iv. 3. § 30; Plin. vi.

17. s. 20; v rmr 'lptiuy yi\, Arrian, And), v. 4; t\

"Wiirt, Strab. xi. p. 514: Etk. 'Ivl6i), a country of

great extent in the southern part of Asia, bounded

en the north by the great chain of the Himalaya

mountains, which extend, under variously modified

names, from the Brahmaputra river on the E. to the

Indus on the W., and which were known in ancient

times under the names Emodus and Imaus. [Emodi

Mosmsa.] These mountains separated the plain

country of India to the S. of them from the steppes of

Tatary on the K., and formed the water-shed of most

of the great rivers with which India is so plentifully

strpplied. On the E. the Brahmaputra, which sepa­

rates it from Ava and Burmah, is its principal boun­

dary; though, if the definition of India be adopted

which was in rogue among the later classical geo­

graphers, those countries as far as the commencement

of the Chinese empire on the S. must be compre­

hended within the limits of India. On the S. it is

bnonded by the Bay of Bengal and the Indian Ocean,

and on the W. by the Indus, which separates it from

GMroaia, Arachosia, and the land of the Paropami-

s.vlae. Some writers, indeed (as Lassen, Pentap.

Indie. Bonn, 1827), have considered the districts

along the southern spurs of the Paropamisus (or

Hindi-KusK) as part of India; bnt the passage of

Pliny on which Lassen relies would make India com­

prehend the whole of Afghanistan to Beluehistdn on

the Indian Ocean; a position which can hardly be

maintained as the deliberate opinion of any ancient

■other.

It may, indeed, be doubted whetherthe Indians them­

selves ever laid down any accurate boundary of their

country westward (LairsofMarm,ii. v. 22,quoted by

Lassen, Pmtap. Indie, p. 8); though the Saratrati

(Hydraotes) separated their sacred land from Western

India. Generally, however, the Indus was held to

be their western boundary, as is clear from Strnbo's

words (xv. p. 689), and may be inferred from Pliny's

description (vi. 20. s. 23).

It ie necessary, before we proceed to give the prin­

cipal division*, mountain ranges, rivers, and cities of

India, to trace very briefly, through the remains of

clinical literature, the gradual progress of the know-

ledge which the ancient world possessed of Ihii

country; a land which, from first to last, seems to

have been to them a constant source of wonder and

admiration, and therefore not unnaturally the theme

of many strange and fabulous relations, which even

their most critical writers have not failed to record.

Though the Greeks were not acquainted with

India in the heroic ages, and though the name itself

does not occur in their earliest writers, it seems not

unlikely that they had some faint idea of a distant

land in the far East which was very populous and

fruitful. The occurrence of the names of objects of

Indian merchandise, such as Kiuro-tripos, 4\i<pas,

and others, would seem to Bhow this. The same

thing would seem to be obscurely hinted at in the

two Aethiopias mentioned by Homer, the one towards

the setting, and the other in the direction of the

rising sun (Od. i. 23, 24); and a similar inference

may probably be drawn from some of the early notices

of these Aethiopians, whose separate histories arc

perpetually confounded together, many things being

predicated of the African nation which could be only

true of an Indian people, and vice versa. That

there were a people whom the Greeks called Aethic-

pes in the neighbourhood of, if not within the actual

boundaries of India, is clear from Herodotus (vii. 70),

who states in another place that all the Indians (ex­

cept the Daradae) resembled the Aethiopians in the

dark colour of their skins (iii. 101); while abundant

instances may be observed of the intermixture of the

accounts of the African and Indian Aethiopians, as,

for example, in Ctesias (Indie. 7, ed. BHhr. p. 354),

Pliny (viii. 30. 3), who quotes Ctesias, Scylax, in

his description of India (ap. Philostrat, Vil. Apoll.

iii. 14), Taetzes (Chil. vii. 144), Aolian (II. An.

xvi. 31), Agatharchides (de Rvbro A/art, p. 44, ed.

Huds.), Pollux (Onomast. v. 5), and many other

writers. Just in the same way a confusion may be

noticed in the accounts of Libya, as in Herodotus

(iv. 168—199; cf. Ctesias, Indie. 13), where he

intermixes Indian and African tales. Even so late

as Alexander's invasion, we know that the same

confusion prevailed, Alexander himself believing that

he would find the sources of the Nile in India.

(Strab. xv. p. 696; Arrian, Exp. Alex. vi. 1.)

It is not remarkable that the Greeks should have

had but little knowledge of India or its inhabitants

till a comparatively late period of their history, and

that neither Homer nor Pindar, nor the great Greek

dramatists Sophocles and Euripides, should mention

by its name either India or any of its people. It is pro­

bable that, at this early period, neither commerce nor

any other ennse had led the Greeks beyond the shores

of Syria eastward, and that it was not till the Persian

wars that the existence of vast and populous regions

to the E. of Persia itself became distinctly known to

them. Some individual names may have reached

the ears of tho^e who inquired; perhaps some -indi­

vidual travellers may have heard of these far distant

realms; such, for instance, as the physician I)e-

mocedes, when residing at the court of Dareius, the

son of Hystaspes (Herod, iii. 127), and Democritus

of Abdera (b. c. 460—400), who is said by several

authors to have travelled to Egypt, Persia, Aethio-

pia, and India (Diog. Laert. ix. 72; Strab. xvi. p.

703; Clem. Strom, i. p. 304; Suidas, s. v.). Yet

little was probably known beyond a few names.

The fii st historian who speaks clearly on the subject

is Hecataeus of Miletus (B.C. 549—486). In the few

fragments which remain of his writings, and which

have been carefully collected by Klausen (Berl.

