394 NABATAEI. NACOLEIA.

habited the land of Edom, commonly known as

Idumaea, And intimate that there was no connection

whatever between the Idumaeans of Petra in the

Augustine period, and the children of Esan ; they

were, in fact, Nabataeans, and therefore, according

to Joseph us and other ancient authorities, Ishmaelite

Arabs. How or when they had dispossessed the

Edornitcs does not appear in history, nor what hud

become of the remnant of the Edomiles. (Robinson,

Bib. lies. vol. ii. pp. 55S, 559.) Hut while Judas

Maecabaeus was on terms of friendship with the

Nabataei, he was carrying on a war of extermination

against the Edomites. (Joseph. Ant. xii. 8. § 1;

1 JIaccab. v. 3.) It is worthy of remark, however,

that the lduniaeans with whom Hyrcaims was in

alliance, over whom Aretas reigned, and from whom

Herod was sprung-, are expressly said to be Naba-

taeans (Ant. xiv. 2. § 3, 3. §§ 3,4), whose alli­

ance was refused by I'ompey, on account of their

inaptitude for war. And this identity is further

proved by Strabo, who writes that the Idumaeans and

the lake (Asphaltides) occupy the extreme west (?)

corner of Judaea: —u These Idumaeans arc Na-

bataeans ; but being expelled thence in a sedition,

they withdrew to the Jews and embraced their cus­

toms." (xvi. p. 760.) This recognition of the

Nabataean origin of the later Idumaeans, proves

that the name is to be regarded as a geographical,

rather than as a genealogical designation. IMiny

(vi. 32) throws little light upon the subject,

merely making the Nalataei contiguous to the

Scenitc Arabs, with whom they were more probably

identical, and stating that the ancients had placed

the Thimanaci next to them (i. e. on the E.); in

the place of whom be names several other tribes, as

the Tavcni, Suelleni, Arraccni, &c. (Hid.) But the

statement of Joseph uh that the Nabataei extended

from the Euphrates to the Red Sea, is confirmed by

the fact that the name is still to be found in both

those regions. Thus the name Rabat is applied to

a marshy district, described by Gulius as part

of the " jtalustria Chaldacae," between Wasith and

Basra, which was called ** paludes Nabathaeorum,"

(Golius, cited by Forster, (jeog. of Arabia, vol. i.

p. 214 n.*), while at the other extremity the name

Rabat is given to a town two days beyond (i. e.

south) of Kt-lfaura in the Iledjaz.bj an Arabian

geographer (Siiiouti, cited by CJuatreniere, Memoirt

gur les Rabattens, p. 3*), near where Jebel Rdbit fs

marked in modem majis. The existence of this name

in this locality is regarded by M. Quairemcre as an

additioualargument for the identity of ElJIauravc'xih

LeuceCome, proving that the country of the Nabataei

did actuallyextend so far south. The fact of the origin

of the Nabataeans from Ncbaioth the son of Ishmael,

resting as it does on tltc respectable authority of

Joseph us, followed as he is by S.Jerome (Qnaest.

Hthr. in Gene*, torn. ii. p. 530), and all subsequent

writers in the western world, has been called in

question by M. Qtiatremere in the Me'moire above

referred to; who maintains that they are in no

sense Ishmaelites, nor connected by race with any

of the Arab families, but were Aramaeans, and

identical with the Chaldaeans. He cites a host of

ancient and most respectable native Arabic authors

in proof of this theory ; according to whose state­

ments the name Nabats or Nabataeans designated

the primitive and indigenous population of Chaldaea

and the neighbouring provinces, probably those whom

Eusebius designates Babylonians in contradistinction

from tin Chaldaeans. They occupied the whole of

that country afterwards called Irak-Arab, in the

most extended sense of that name, even carnpre-

hending several provinces beyond the Tigris; aod it

is worthy of remark, that Uasoudi mentions a rem­

nant of the Babylonians and Chaldaeans existing in

his day in the very place which is designated the

marshes of the Kahataeans, i. c. in the villages situ­

ated in the swampy ground between Wasith and

Basra. (lb. p. 66.) Other authors merit km Xaha-

taeans near Juthrib or Medina, which would acmam

for the Jebel Ribdt in that vicinity; and antxher

section of them in Bahrein, on the eastern cuevt i/

the peninsula, who had become Arabs, aa the Arab

inhabitants of the province of Oman are said to have

become Nabataeans. (lb. p. SO ) Thia *ettlem**nt *4

Nabatscans in the Persian Gulj'timr be alluded lit by

Strabo, who relates that the Chaldaeans, baniancd

from their country, settled themselves in the town si

(icrrha, on the coast of Arabia (xvi p. 766);

which fact would account for the commercial inter­

course between the merchants of Gerrha and those

of Petra above referred to; the Nabataei of PcVa

being a branch of some family also from Babylui

and perhaps driven from their country by tba

same political revolution that dispossessed the re­

fugees of Gerrha. However this may have been,

it must be admitted that the very ingenious and

forcible arguments of M. (juatretuere leave little

doubt that this remarkable jeople, which apeear*

so suddenly and comparatively late on the stage of

Arabian history, to disappear as suddenly after a

brief and brilliant career of mercantile activity and

success, were not natives of the soil, but a bene U

another race and family into which they were sub­

sequently merged, again to rea] pear in the annab U

their own original seats. (lb. pp. 88—9u.) ReUi-d

gives a different account of the identity of the nan**

in the two quarters. (Palaestina, p. 94.) [G- W.]

NABATHKAE. [Ahcai.tes.]

NABIA'NI (Naffuwof), a tribe of the Caucasus

whom Strabo (xi. p. 506) couples with the Panxani

(Uay^avot), about the Talus Maeotis. [E. B. J.]

NABLIS, a river of Germany, flowing int*» the

Danube from the north, and probably identical with

the Naxib in Bavaria. (Venat. Fort. vi. 11; iJcocr.

Rav. iv. 26, who calls it Nabus or Navua.) f L. &.]

NABKISSA or NKBKIS6A (Noa>r*a, Strafe, m.

pp. 140, 143; Ttol. ii. 4. §12; Nebrieea, in eaa

editt. of Tlin. iii. 1. s. 3, but Sillig reads NaUri***;

Nebrissa, Sit. iii. 393), surnamed Veneria, a town *i

the Turdetaui in Hispania Baetica, situated upon the

aestuary of the river Baeti*. According to fubes

(L c.) it was celebrated for the worship of I)ior.y»«h,

Now fabrija. (Florez, E*p. Soar. xii. p. 60.)

KABItl'AI, a river of Uedro>ia, mentioned by Pli&r

(vi. 23. s. 20). It must have been situated near the

mouth of the Arabia, between this river and the lnda*;

but its exact position cannot be determined. It at

not mentioned in the voTage of Nearcbus. [V.1

NACMl'SH. [MArHKTAKIA.]

NACOLEIA, NACO'LIA (NoaJAeia, Ne*eAJ«.\

a town in 1'hrygia Kpictetus, betwevn Darrtarwaa

and Cotyaeum, on the upper course of the near

Thymbres. (Strab. xii. p. 576; Steph. B- a. r.:

Ptol. v. 2. § 22.) In the earlier timea, the lesaa

does not teem to have been a place of much c*ar-

sequence, but later writers often mention it. It haa

acquired some celebrity frutn the tart that ihr rro-

pemr Valens there defeated the nsuqcr Prucof^ua.

(Amm. Marc, xxvii. 27; com p. Zosim. iv. 6; Secaaft.

Hist. Ecd. ir. 5 \ Soxopi. ir. 8.) 1b the rc%n W

