694 RAVENNA. RAURACt

residence: Ms example was followed by his suc­

cessors; and from the year 404, when Honoring first

established himself there, to the close of the Western

Empire, Ravenna continued to be the permanent

imperial residence and the place from whence all the

laws and rescripts of the emperors were dated.

(Jornand. Get. 29; Gibbon, c. 30.) Even before

this period we are told that it WAD a very rich and

populous city, as well as of trreat strength (Zosim.

ii. 10): it was the capital of Picenum (as that name

was then used) and the residence of the Consularis

or governor of that province. (Orel). Inter* 3649;

Booking, ad Xvt. Digit, ii. pp. 359, 443.) But the

establishment of the imperial court there naturally

added greatly to its prosperity and splendour, while

its inaccessible situation preserved it from the ca­

lamities which at this iieriod laid waste so many

cities of Italy. Yet Ravenna as a place of residence

must always have had great disadvantages. Sidonius

Apollinaris, who visited it late in the fifth century,

complains especially of the want of fresh water, as

well as the inuddiness of the canals, the swarms

of gliata, and the eronking of frogs. (SidotL A poll.

Kp. i. 5, 8.) Martial, at a much earlier period,

also alludes to the scarcity of fresh water, which

lie jestingly asserts was so dear that a cistern was

a more valuable property than a vineyard. (Martial,

iii. 56, 57.)

After the fall of the Western Empire Ravenna

continued to bo the capital of the Gothic kings.

Odoaeer, who had taken refuge there after repeated

defeats by The<jdoric, held out for near three years,

but was at length compelled to surrender. (Jor­

nand. Get.57; Cassiod. Ckron, p. C49.) Theodoric

himself established his residence there, and his ex­

ample was followed by his successors, until, in 539,

Vitigcs was after a long siege compelled by famine

to surrender the city to Relisarius. (Procop. B. (J.

ii. 28 29.) It now became the residence of the

governors who ruled a part of Italy in the name of

the Byzantine emperors, with the title of exarchs,

whence the whole of this province came to be known

as the Exarchate of Ravenna. The Byzantine go­

vernors were in a state of f'reuuent hostility with the

Lombard kings, and were gradually stripped of a

large portion of their dominions; but Ravenna itself

drtied their arms for more than two centuries. It

was besieged by Liutprand about 750, and its im­

portant suburb of Classis totally destroyed (P. l)iac.

vi. 49); but it was not till the reipn of his suc­

cessor Astolphos that Ravenna itself fell into the

hands of the Lombards. Rut the exact date, as

well as the circumstances of its final conquest, are

uncertain. (Gibbon, c. 49.)

The situation of Ravenna at the present day

presents DO resemblance to that described by ancient

writers. Vet there is no doubt that the modern

city occupies the same site with the ancient one,

and that the chanpe is wholly due to natural

causes. The accumulation of alluvial deposits,

brought down by the rivers and driven back by the

waves and titles, has pradually filled up the (agonal

that surrounded and canals that intersected the city;

and the modern Bavenua stands in a fiat and fertile

plain, at a distance of 4 miles from the sea, from

which it is separated by a broad sandy tract, covered

in preat part with a beautiful forest of stone pines.

Though Ravenna is one of the most interestinp

places in Italy for its mediaeval and early Christian

antiquities, it presents few remains of the Roman

jiciiod, and those for the most part belong to the

declining years of the Empire. AtriMuiiai ini

known by the name of Porta Aurea, wseAstrejej

in 1586: it stood near the modern ;» aid

Porta Adrtann. Several of the indent buial

date from the Roman period; as does aU.- it* tffs)

chraJ chapel containing the tomb of Gala llsfl

the sister of Honorius, and mother of Yji r.LcaiB

A portion of the palace of Theodoric:

in its original state, and the niaosol*

monarch, just without the walls, is an

remarkable character, though stripped of iti t

ornaments. An ancient basilica, still aDsi \

ApoUinare in Cfassc about 3 miles frost 1

southern gate of the city, preserves the n

marks the site of the ancient port and i

Classis; while another basilica, whirs

down to the year 1553, bore the name of S.1

in Ctxarea; and thus indicated the sits H

important suburb. It stood about a qaarw I

mile from the south pale of the city. bet*-«l

walls and the bridge now called ftafc i

This bridge crosses the united streams of ti

and Montone, two small rivers which \

held separate courses to the sea, bat *

into one and confined within an artinaal i

by Clement XII. in 1736. The /frwco, i

the southernmost of the two, is probably t

with the Redcsis of Pliny; indeed Claws'

that it was in his time still called Beam*

the Montont must be identified with tail

the same author. The Anemo, vhka st|

next in order, is clearly the same now i

Amone or Lamotie, which Hows under the *

(Plin. iii. 15. s. 20; Cluver. /t*i|

The natural causes which have prod a

changes in the situation and environs of 1

were undoubtedly in operation from so ea"

Already in the fifth century the original f<s^

st rue ted by Augustus was completely filial s|

occupied by orchards. (Jornand. Gd. I

Ravenna at that period liad still a much

port, where the fleets of lieliaarins ■

could rule at anchor. The port of Caus

now separated from the sea by a strip of

marshy plain about 2 miles broad, tl

part of which is occupied by a fatal

pines, which extends for many miles

coast both to the S. and N. v£ Ra

existence of this remarkable strip of

tested as early as the fifth century, the

Pineta being already found in Jomandsa,

us that Theodoric encamped there wfc

sieged Odoaeer in Ravenna. (Jomaad.

it is probable that it has extended its

and shifted its

gained upon the

The territory of Ravenna was always

cept the sandy strip adjoining the sea, am

abundance of wine of pood quality, bat

marked that the vines quickly decayed,

p. 214; Plin. xiv. 2. s. 4.) Its gardes*

noticed by Pliny as growing the finest

while the adjoining sea was noted for

leuce of its turbot. (Plin, ix. 54. a.

19.) [E.

RAV1US ('Paoiiios, Ptol. ii. S. § *

the \V. cuast of Hibernia, according to

1385) the Trobis. Others idtnofr

Qw&mrm.

KAUKACI, or RAURICI

IUurici ..; ;. .ii- • in rtolenij (ii. 9. §

