KICOPOUS.

NIDUM. 427

St crnrr part; and there can be little doubt that the

iral .wboor, intended bj Strabo, was the port of

r«ij nam the irolf, the distance of which from

mrapondj to the 12 stadia of Strabo. and

wkn than iff tome Roman ruiai a little within

•atalfct marra ibore of the creek. The port of

C—m was fcahiiatj at Mytikn. bnt the name of

Qmm a bow given to the wide bay north of

I**

ioi nuu of NicopDin are now called Paleoyre-

am Ob approaching them from Prevrsa, the

taul* fat Nam to tome small arched buildings

4 -> t, which were probably sepulchres, beyond

■kta in tbe remains of a strong wall, probably the

askci admn of the city. Near the south-

of the lagoon Mdzoma, is the

or cast Ir. It is an irregular pentagonal

with walls and with square

nterrak. about 25 feet in height On

the walK are most perfect, and here

•J gate. The extent of the enclosure

of a mile. The variety of marble

sod enn the remains of inscriptions of

tf lav Roman Empire, inserted in the

the whole to hare been a repair,

upon the site of the original acro-

to as to hare been sufficiently large

population of the place. It

as Leake conjectures, the work of

Nicopolis.

Watlred yards westward of the Paleohastron

mf a small theatre but little dilapi-

GcJ. Lake says that it appears to be about

bat Lieut. Wolfe describes it

fret to diameter. Being built upon lerel

* hark or highest part is entirely sup-  
•P* a* arched corridor. Between this

theatre and the shore, are the ruins of a quadran­

gular building of brick, which was perhaps a palace,

as it has numerous apartments, with many niches in

the walls for statues, and some remains of a stone

pavement It stands just within an aqueduct, sup­

ported upon arches, which entered Nicopolis on the

north, and was 30 miles in length. Considerable

remains of it are met with in different parts of

Kpeirus.

Farther north, at the foot of a range of hills, are

the remains of the great theatre, which is the most

conspicuous object among the ruins. It is one of the

best preserved Roman theatres in existence. The

total diameter is about 300 feet. The scene is 120

feet long, and 30 in depth. There are 27 rows of

seats in three divisions. From the back of the

theatre rises the hill of Mxkhalttzi, which was un­

doubtedly the site of the tent of Augustus before the

battle of Actium. Close to the theatre are the

ruins of the stadium, which was circular at both

ends, unlike all the other stadia of Greece, but

similar to several in Asia Minor, which have been

constructed or repaired by the Romans. Below the

stadium are some ruins, which are perhaps those of

the gymnasium, since we know from Strabo (vii. p.

325) that the gymnasium was near the stadium.

The accompanying map is taken from Lieut Wolfe's

survey. (Leake, Northern Greece, vol. i. p. 185,

seq.; Wolfe, in Journal of Geogr. Soc* vol. iii. p.

92, seq.)

COIN OF NICOFOUS IN EPEIRUS.

2. A town of Thrace, not far from the month of

the Nessua, and therefore called by Ptolemy (iii. 11.

§ 13) NWtoAij ij wtpl N^ffffof. It appears

to have been founded by Trajan, as it is sumamcd

Ulpia upon coins. The Scholiast upon Ptolemy

says that it was subsequently named Christopolis;

but it is still called Nicopolis by Socrates (//. E.

vii, 36) and Hierocles (p. G35).

3. A town of Thrace at the foot of Mt Haemns.

(Ptol. iii. 11. § 11.)

4. A town of Thrace, situated at the place where

the Iatrus flows into the Danube, and erected by

Trajan in memory of his victory over the Dacians.

(Amm. Marc. xxxi. 5 ; Jornand. de Reb. Get. c. 18;

Hierocl. p. 636.)

NICOTKRA (Xicotera), a town of Bruttium,

known only from the Antonine Itinerary (pp. 106,

111), which places it 18 M. P. south of Vibo

Valentia, on the road to Rhegium. It is repeatedly

mentioned in the middle ages, and slill exists under

its ancient name as a considerable town and an

episcopal see. [E. H. B.]

NIDUM or NIDUS, a town of Britain, situated

according to the Itinerary (p. 484), on the road from

[aca Dumnuniorum to Isca Silurum.and consequently

in the territory of the Belgae. This site, however,

is in all probability false: and it appears rather to

have been a town of the Silures, the modern Neath,

on the river of that name in Glamorganshire,

(Camden, p. 735.) [T.H.D.]

