756 ROMA. .' ROMA.

of the agger. But besides these, Strabo {lb. p. 234)

mentions another lying between them, tho Porta

Viminalis; which isalso recorded by F est as (p.376)

an<l by Frontinua (Aq. 19). It must have Iain

behind the SE. angle of the baths of Diocletian, where

an ancient road leads to the rampart, which, if pro­

longed, would run to the PoBTA Clal'sa of the

walls of Anrclian, just under the southern side of the

Castra Praetoria. It is clear from the words of

Strabo, in the passage just cited (uiri ficVy oe to?

^uifiart Tp'tTT} <Vt1 ttv\t) 6/j.a>vufxos Tec Qvifiii'a\l(p

\6<ptf\ that there were only three gates in the

agger, though some topographers have contrived to

rind room for two or three inure in this short space,

the whole length of the agger being but 6 or 7 stadia

(Strab. /. e.\ Dionys. ix. 68), or about | of a mile.

Its breadth was 50 feet, and below it lay a ditch

100 feet broad and 30 feet deep. Remains of this

immense work arc still visible near the baths of

Diocletian and in the grounds of the Villa Xegroni.

especially at the spot where the statue of Roma now

stands.

Survey under Vespasian and Circumference of the

City. — In the preceding account of the gates in the

Servian wall we have enumerated twenty, including

the Porta Triumphal!*. Some topographers have

adopted a still greater number. When we consider

that there were only nine or ten main raids leading

out of ancient Koine, and that seven of these issued

from the three gates Capena, Es.juilina, and Collina

alone, it follows that five or six gates would have

sufficed for the main entrances, and that the re­

mainder must have been unimportant ones, destined

only to afford the means of convenient communication

with the surrounding country. Of those enumerated

only the Collina. Viminalis, Esquilina, Caelimontana,

Capena, Trigeminy, Carmentalis, and Batumena

seem to have been of any great importance. Never­

theless it appears from a passage in Pliny (iii. 9)

that in his time there must have been a great

number of smaller ones, the origin and use of which

we Khali endeavour to account for presently. As the

passage, though unfortunately somewhat obscure, is

of considerable importance in Roman topography, we

shall here quote it at length: "Urbcm tres portas

habentem Romulus reUquit, ant (ut plurimas tra-

dentibus credamus) quatuur. Moenia ejus collegers

ainbitu Imperat"ribus Censoribusqne Vespasianis

anno conditae becexxvn. pass. xiiiM.cc Com-

plexa monies sept em, ipsa dividitur in regiones

quatnordecim, compita Lariom cclxv. Ejusdem

spatium, mensura currente a milltario in capita

Romani fori statnto, ad singulas portas, quae sunt

hodie numero triginta eeptem, ita ut duodecim

Kernel numerentur, praetereanturque rx veteribus

septem, quae esse deaierunt, efficit passuum per

directum XXXM.DCCLXV. Ad extrcma vero tec-

tonim cum castris Praetoriia ab eodem mUliario per

vicoa omnium viarum mensura colligit panto ampltns

wptuaginta roillia passuum." Now there seems to

be no reason for doubting the correctness of this

account. Pliny could have had no reason for exag­

geration, against which, in the account of the Bo­

rn u lean gates, he carefully guards himself. Again,

lie seems to have taken the substance of it from the

official report of a regular survey made in his own

time and in the reign of Vespasian. The only room

for suspicion therefore seems to be that his text may

have been corrupted, and that instead of thirty-seven

as the number of the gates we should insert some 1

smaller one. Gut an examination of his figures does I

not tend to show that they are iocormt. Tia

survey seems to have been made with a Tiew to ua

three following objects: 1. To ascertain the rt«l

circumference of the city, including all the Milan*

which had spread beyond the walls of SerriwL ft

is well known that moenia signifies the boiiitsgitf

a city as well as the walls (M mom moenia a»|

est," Flor. i. 4, &c), and therefore this phrase,

has sometimes caused embarrassment, need a*

tain us. Now the result of this first nreas

gave 13.200pasms, or 13J Roman miles—s

to which there is nothing to object, a* it wry

agrees with the circumference of the sol

Aurelian walk. 2. The second object M*

been to ascertain the actual measure of the

street within the old Servian walls. The

this proceeding we do not immediately

It may have been adopted out of mere

more probably it may have been connectes

questions respecting certain privileges, or

taxes, which varied according as a boose wi

ated within or without the walls. Now tie

the measurements of all these street*, whs

together as if they had formed a straight law

directum"), amounted to 30,765 /wjww.or.10

miles and about j. Such we take to hi

meaning of ''per directum;" tboogh sc

hold it to mean that the distance from the

to these gates was measured in a straight

the crow flies, without taking into the

the windings of the streets. But in that

would surely have been put earlier in the

—'' mensura currente per directum ad

portas." This, however, would hare been «T

consequence except for the dUtinetx*

Becker (Jfaadfc p. ISii, note 279), who

the measurement proceeds on two

ciples, namely per directum, or as the

from the milliarium to the Servian gates, ami,'

contrary, by all the windings of the streets

same spot to the furthest buildings outside the

Such a method, as he observes, weald

true ground of comparison, and therefore

hardly think that it was adopted, or that *

Pliny's meaning. Becker was led to this a

because he thought that14 per vice* otnrcom

stands contrasted with "per directum;*

contrast does not seem necessarily to

rtae here Pliny seems to mean all the rati

out of the thirty-seven gates; and by M ad

tectorum per vicos omnium viarumn m

merely that the measure was further

end of the streets which lined the

these roads. Such appears to us to be the rm

this certainly somewhat obscure passage. PI

count may be checked, roughly indeed, hot s

a sufficient approach to accuracy to guars

correctness of his text. If a circurnfrreae

miles yielded 70 miles of street, and if da

30 miles of street within the Servian walls,'

circumference of the tatter wuokl be to the

as 3 to 7, and would measure rather

5$ miles. Now this agrees pretty well with

which we have of the uize of the Servian tit**

following the account of Thm-ydidea (iL 1

without allowing for that part of the'

Athens described as unguarded, with tl

circuit of which walls I>ionrsit» (iv. 13,

f>$) compares those of ancient Rome, sett

latter down at 43 stadia, or 5f miles,

great plan of Koine they are- given at

