PHOENICIA. PHOENICIA. 613

(DuixtiiS.) But in the year 315 n. o. Anti-

:<cv Morning victorious fn>m Babylonia, easily

■:>!!«! ibf gtrriions of Ptolemy from all the Phoe-

toirm «r#pt Tyre, where he experienced an

■'-■.rail rnwanre. Eighteen years had sufficed to

it in ft considerable degree to its ancient

iqJ paver; and although the mole still re-

-ui-rj it »4S almost as impregnable as before, and  
»l wt wdowd till after a siege of fifteen months.

}m [hi? juried down to near the end of the third

floory a. c there was an almost constant sue-

of itrog;les for the possession of Phoenicia

Wf*« the Ptolemies on one side and the Seleucidae

* u* other, Ptolemy Euergetes succeeded in re­  
nte^ it, and it was held by him and his son Phi-

i«.r<J*ni to the year 218 B.C.; when Antiochus

n» Gnat, taking advantage of the indolent and

character of the latter, and the consequent

t*/>n of hi* administration, undertook its re-

Tyre and Ace were surrendered to him by

* ^achrry of Throdotus, the lieutenant of Phi-  
w. tnl the Egyptian army and fleet were dc-

and and driven to take refuge at Sidon. In the

*k»T3£ tw, however, Philopator defeated An-  
>rKit at tUphia near the frontiers of Egypt, and

pz*rj paeeanon of Phoenicia and Syria, which

i maaad tOI Jus death, b. c 205. The reign

'iafant Ion again tempted the ambition of

■staaa. He succeeded in reducing Phoenicia,

■ after rfpohing an attempt of the Egyptians

it in B-c. 198, firmly established bis do-

3 ib4 bequeathed it to his sons.

V:vita4andinff these straggles. Tyre appears to

ft ir.j sijr<ycd a considerable share of commercial

■B*rlT. in which, however, she had now to en-

a formidable rival in Alexandria. At first,

W- tiat city did not much interfere with her

**r*j: f«at the foundation of Berenice on the  
'•^ by Ptolemy PhiUdelphus, the making of a

i tavern that pi are and Coptos, and the re-

k-v J. the canal which connected the gulf of

l vua the PeJmiac branch of the Nile (Strab.

'*!1 indicted a severe blow upon her commerce,

I «*«wtrd Alexandria into the chief emporium

;*oiacta of the East.

&* nril «m of the' Seleucidae, and the suffer-

I «*ra they entailed, induced the Syrians and

*- aaj to place thenwelves under the protection  
fovea, king of Armenia, in the year 83 b. c.

**,«L I; Appian. .Syr. 48.) Ace, or Ptolemais,  
ti» mly cfry which, at the instigation of Selene,

■ «* Aati genua, refused to open its gates to

a« 7aat monarch held Phoenicia during

aaa wan, whan the Sleucidae regained it for a

1' ~* • nooK<)uence of t he victories of Lucullus.

r *«n hler Pompey reduced all Syria to the

I*" rf a Roman province. During the civil

\ 4 aar», Phoenicia was the scene of many

If* Vrween the Koman generals. Just pre-

■> to tW hattit of Pnilippt, Cassias divided

* '■tomwml small principalities, which be sold  
b kfafat bidders; and in this way Tyre had

Mia*; called Marion. Antony presented the

»-«*tt between Eeypt and the river Eleu-

■ to Qanatlra, but, in spite of her intreaties to

^^vnr, aeeurad Tyre and Sidon in their

(J,«eph. Ant, xv. 4. § 1.) But

» Asrura ri«ted the Ea>t, n. c. 20, he deprived

^liberties. (Won Caa*. liv. 7.)

the Bman dominion put an end to the

6»i '.xUtav* of Tyre and iudon, they retained

their manufactures and commerce for a considerable

period. Mela, who probably wrote during the reign

of Claudius, characterises Sidon as11 adhuc opulenta"

(L 12); and Pliny, at about the same period, adverts

to the staple trade of Tyre as being still in a

flourishing condition ('' nunc omnis ejus nobilitas

conchy lio at que purpura constat," v. 17). At the

instance of the rhetorician Paul us, Hadrian, as we

have already mentioned, granted to Tyre the title of

metropolis. It was the residence of a proconsul, and

the chief naval station on the coast of Syria. During

the contest of Septimius Severus and Pescennius

Niger for imperial power, a. i>.193, Beryttis favoured

the cause of Niger, Tyre that of Septimius; in con-

sequence of which, it was taken and burnt by the

light Mauritanian troops of Niger, who committed

great slaughter. (Herodian, iii. 9. § 10.) Severus,

after his success, recruited the population of Tyre

from the third legion, and, as a reward for its

attachment, bestowed on it the Jus Italtcum and

the title of colony. (Ulpian, Dig. Leg. de Cens.

tit 15; Eckhel, vol. iii. p. 387.) In the time of

St. Jerome, towards the end of the fourth century,

it was still the first commercial city of the East

{Comm. ad Ezek. xxvi. 7, xxvii. 2); and after the

destruction of Berytus by an earthquake in the

reign of Justinian, it monopolised the manufacture of

imperial purple, which it had previously shared with

that city. Beyond this period it is not necessary to

pursue the history of Phoenicia. We shall only add

that Tyre continued to flourish under the mild

dominion of the caliphs, and that, in spite of all the

violence which it suffered from the crusaders, its

prosperity was not utterly annihilated till the con­

quest of Syria by the Ottoman Turks, a. d. 1516;

a result, however, to which the discovery of the

New World, and of a route to Asia by the Cape oj

Good Ifope, likewise contributed.

V. Political Constitution.

Phoenicia consisted of several small independent

kingdoms, or rather cities, which were sometimes

united with and sometimes opposed to one another,

just as we find Canaan described at the time when

it was invaded by the Israelites. (Strab. xvi. p. 754;

Joshua, x.) We have but little information re­

specting the constitution of these kingdoms. The

throne was commonly hereditary, but the people

seem to have possessed a right of election. (Justin,

xviii. 4.) The chief priests exercised great power,

and were next in rank to the king. Thus Sicharbas,

or Sichaeus, chief priest of the temple of Hercules,

was the husband of Dido, and consequently the

brother-in-law of king Pygmalion. There seems

also to have been a powerful aristocracy, but on what

it was founded is unknown. Thus a body of nobles,

who are called senators, accompanied the emigration

of Dido. (Justin, /. c.) During the interregnum at

Tyre after the ^e^vile insurrection, the government

was carried on by elective magistrates, called judges

orsnffetes. (Joseph, c. Ap. LSI.) This institution

also obtained at Gades and Carthage, and probably

in all the western colonies of Tyre. (Liv. xxviii. 37;

com p. Movers, ii. pt i. p. 534.) Kings existed in

Phoenicia down to the time of Alexander the GrcaL

(Arrian, ii. 24.) The federal constitution of Phoe­

nicia resembled a Grecian hegemony: either Tyre

or Sidon was always at the head, though Araiius

and Byblus likewise had kings. During the earliest

period of its history, Sidon appears to have been

the leading city; but after its capture by the king.

B it 3

