SEGESTA. SEGESTA. 949

a against Syracuse, and the contest between

:eti tod Selinus in utmost forgotten in the

r* iropurtant struggle between those two great

'in. Id the summer of B. C- 415 an Athenian

1. proceeding along the coast, took the small town

Hrrcara, on the coast, near Segesta, and made it

r to the Segestans. (Thnc vi. 62; Diod. ziii.

The Litter people are Again mentioned on more

11 rne occasion as sending auxiliary troops to

■! their Athenian allies (Thuc, vii. 57; Diod. ziii.

Ir.il do other notice occurs of them. The final

n i< the Athenians left the Segestans again ex-

■1 to the attacks of their neighbours the Scli-

uzq; and feeling themselves unable to cope

i item, they again had recourse to the Cartha-

us, who determined to espouse their cause, and

ihrtn. in the first instance, an auxiliary force

D00 Africans and 800 Campanian mercenaries,

b tofficed to ensure them the victory over their

l B.C 410. (Diod. xiii. 43, 44.) But this

Ulowed the next year by a vast armament

t Usmubal, who landed at Lilybaeum, and,

niuig direct to Selinns, took and destroyed the

(Ik. 54—58.) This was followed by the

->uo of Himera; and the Carthaginian power  
became 6rmly established in the western por-

of Sicily. Selesta, surrounded on all sides by

formidable neighbour, naturally fell gradually

lit [aaition of a dependent ally of Carthage,

u cne of the few cities that remained faithful

i» alliance even in B.C. 397, when the great

lukn of Dionysius to the YY. of Sicily and the

i Motya seemed altogether to shake the power

L-tiisge. Dionysius in consequence laid siege

testa, and pressed it with the utmost vigour,

il.j after the full of Motya; but the city was

U' rfefr his efforts, until the landing of Hi-

aith a formidable Carthaginian force changed

H«t of affairs, and compelled Dionysius to

ti? tiege. (Id. xiv. 48. 53—55.) From this

>r Leu Utile more of Segesta till the time of

»'.f\ under whom it suffered a great calamity.

having landed in the W. of Sicily on his

i from Africa (b. c. 307), and being received

be city as a friend and ally, suddenly turned

Lbt inhabitants on a pretence of disaffection,

it the whole of the citizens (said to amount

DOO in number) to the sword, plundered their

k, and sold the women and children into

He then changed the name of the city to

and assigned it as a residence to the

• and deserters that had gathered around

(Diod. xx. 71.)

t -.-abletlial Segesta never altogether recovered

• » but it soon resumed its original name, and

•,<fari in history as an independent city,

t is mentioned in b. c. 276, as one of the cities

fthti Pyrrhus during his expedition into the

Sicily. (Diod. xxii. la Exc. II. p. 498.) It,

"«oo after fell again under the power of the

Cicians; and it was probably on this occasion

» city was taken and plundered by them, as

I v> by Cicero ( Verr. iv.33); a circumstance of

ve have no other account. It continued subject

- .east dependent on that people, till the First  
War. Ia the first year of that war (b. c. 264)

•-irked by the consul Appius Claudius, but

- •occtm (Diod. xziii. 3. p. 501); but shortly  
^ inhabitants put the Carthaginian garrison

•word, and declared for the alliance of Rome.

f. 502; Zonar Tiil 9.) Tbey were in con-

sequence besieged by a Carthaginian force, and were

at one time reduced to great straits, but were relieved

by the arrival of Duilius, after his naval victory,

B. c. 260. (Pol. i. 24.) Segesta seems to have been

one of the first of the Sicilian cities to set the ezam-

ple of defection from Carthage; on which account,

as well as of their pretended Trojan descent, the in­

habitants were treated with great distinction by the

Romans. They were exempted from all public bur­

dens, and even as late as the time of Cicero continued

to be " sine foedere immnnes ac liberi." (Cic. Kerr.

iii. 6, iv. 33.) After the destruction of Carthage,

Scipio Africanus restored to the Segestans a stutue

of Diana which had been carried off by the Cartha­

ginians, probably when they obtained possession of

the city after the departure of Pyrrhus. (Cic Verr.

iv. 33.) During the Servile War also, in B.C. 102,

the territory of Segesta is again mentioned as one of

those where the insurrection broke out with the

greatest fury. (Diod. xxxvi. 5, Exc. Phot.p. 534.)

But with the exception of these incidental notices we

hear little of it under the Roman government. It

seems to have been still a considerable town in the

time of Cicero, and had a port or emporium of its

own on the bay about 6 miles distant (to tw Ary«r-

riwv ifiw6pu>y, Strab. vi. pp. 266, 272; Itr/Knaydr

ilin6piov, Ptol. iii. 4. § 4). This emporium seems

to have grown up in the days of Strabo to be a more

important place than Segesta itself: but the con­

tinued existence of the ancient city is attested both

by Pliny and Ptolemy; and we learn from the former

that the inhabitants, though they no longer retained

their position of nominal independence, enjoyed the

privileges of the Latin citizenship. (Strab. I.e.;

Plin. iii. 8. s. 14; Ptol. iii. 4. § 15.) It seems,

however, to have been a decaying place, and no trace

of it is subsequently found in history. The site is

said to have been finally abandoned, in consequence

of the ravages of the Saracens, in A. D. 900 (Amico,

ad Fazell. Sic. vii. 4. not- 9), and is now wholly de­

solate ; but the town of Casteil 'a Mare, about 6 miles

distant, occupies nearly, if not precisely, the same site

as the ancient emporium or port of Segesta.

The site of the ancient city is still marked by the

ruins of a temple and theatre, the former of which is

one of the most perfect and striking ruins in Sicily.

It stands on a hill, about 3 miles NW. of Calatqfimi,

in a very barren and open situation. It is of the

Doric order, with six columns in front and fourteen

on each side (all, except one, quite perfect, and that

only damaged), forming a parallelogram of 162 feet

by 66. From the columns not being fluted, they

have rather a heavy aspect; but if due allowance be

made for this circumstance, the architecture is on

the whole a light order of Doric; and it is probable,

therefore, that the temple is not of very early date.

From the absence of fluting, as well as other details

of the architecture, there can be no doubt that it

never was finished,—the work probably being inter­

rupted by some political catastrophe. This temple

appears to have stood, as was often the case, outside

the walls of the city, at a short distance to the YV.

of it The latter occupied the summit of a lull of

small extent, at the foot of which flows, in a deep

valley or ravine, the torrent now called the Firnne

Gaggtra, a confluent of the Fiume di S. Bartolemeo,

which flows about 5 miles E. of Segesta. The latter

is probably the ancient Crimisns [CiUMisusl, cele­

brated for the great victory of Titnoleon over the

Carthaginians, while the Gaggera must probably be

the stream called by Diodarus (xx. 71) theScarnander

3 r 3

