LABNUM. LAS. 129

most be looked for between Tdria and Krainburg, in

Uiyricum. (It. Ant, p. 276; cooip. Aluchar, Nort­

on, p. 247.) [L. S.]

LAfiNUM (Tordera), a small coast river in the

territory of the Laketani, in Hispania Tarra-

conensis, falling into the sea between Iluro and

Blinda. (Plin. iiL 3. s. 4.) It has been inferred

that there was a town of the same name on the

river, from Pliny's mention of the Laknkxsks in

ihe conventus of Caesaraugusta: but it is plain

that the Laeetani belonged to the conventus of

Tarraeo. (Ukert, vol. iL pt 1. p. 456, assigns these

Urnenses to the Arevacae.) [P. S.]

LARTOLAEAETAE. [Laeetani.]

LARYMNA (Adoujiva), the name of two towns

ia Bocotia, on the river Cephissus, distinguished as

I'pper and Lower Larymna, (Strab. ix. pp. 405,

■Vi)6.) Strabo relates that the Cephissus emerged

from its subterranean channel at the Upper Larymna,

and joined the sea at the Lower Larymna; and that

L'pper Larymna had belonged to Phocis until it was

Mnesed to the Lower or Boeotian Larymna by the

Romans. Upper Larymna belonged originally to the

Opantian Locris, and Lycophron mentions it as one

rf the towns of Ajax OTleos. (Lycopbr. 1146.)

Panamas also states, that it was originally Locrian;

aad he adds, that it voluntarily joined the Boeotians

*i the increase of the power of the Thebans. (Pans.  
ix. 23. § 7.) This, however, probably did not take

p&« in the time of Epamuiondas, as Scylax, who

liTed subsequently, still calls it a Locrian town

(p. 23). Ulrichs conjectures that it joined the

Bwotkn league after Thebes had been rebuilt by

Ctesander. In b. c. 230, Larymna is described as

a Boeotian town (Polyb. xx. 5, where Adpvfivav

should be read instead of AaBptvav); and in the

time of Sulla it is again spoken of as a Boeotian

ton.

We may conclude from the preceding statements

tiat the more ancient town was the Locrian La-

Tuina. situated at a spot, called Anchoe by Strabo,

*kre the Cephissus emerged from its subterranean  
channel. At the distance of a mile and a half

lamina had a port upon the coast, which gra­

dually r«e into importance, especially from the time

'bra Larymna joined the Boeotian League, as its

j>rt then became the most convenient communication

*itb the eastern sea for Lebadeia, Chaeroneia, Or-  
ciMmenos, Copae, and other Boeotian towns. The

p<rt Ujwii was called, from its position, Lower

Larrmna, to distinguish it from the Upper city.

TLe former may also liave been called more espe­

cially the Boeotian Larymna, as it became the sea-

F*t of so many Boeotian towns. Upper Larymna,

oWffh it had joined the Boeotian League, continued

to U frequently called the Locrian, on account of its

ttetent connection with Locris. When the Romans

■Bted Upper Larymna to Lower Larymna, the in-

k™taots of the foiner place were probably trans-

^Tfd to the latter; and Upper Larymna was

Uwtfjrth abandoned. This accounts for Pausanias

r>1&w!uiiig lAl\y one Larymna, which must have

*^n the Lower city; for if lie had visited Upper  
Lirvmna, be could hardly have failed to mention

uV emissary of the Cephissus at this Bpot. More-

**"fTt the ruins at Lower Larymna show that it be-  
fa-xe » place of mnch more importance than Upper

Urrmna. These ruins, which are called Kastri,

«* tljw of Delphi, are situated on the shore of the

*fy "J Lames, on a level covered with bushes, ten  
■ana:*! to the left of the mouth of the Cephissus.

\oj_ a

The circuit of the walls is less than a mile. The

annexed plan of the remains is taken from Leake.

cm*

PLAN OF LARYMXA.

1. A small port, anciently closed in the manner here

described.

2. The town wall, traceable all around.

3. Another wall along the sea, likewise traceable.

4. A mole, in the sea.

5. Various ancient foundations in the tower and acro­

polis.

ft. A Sorui.

7. Gltifoner6, or Salt Source.

8. An oblong foundation of an ancient building.

Leake adds, that the walls, which in one place

are extant to nearly half their height, are of a red

soft stone, very much corroded by the sea air, and

in some places are constructed of rough masses.

The sorus is high, with comparison to its length

and breadth, and stands in its original place upon

the rocks: there was an inscription upon it, and

some ornaments of sculpture, which are now quite

defaced. The Glyfonero is a small deep pool of

water, impregnated with salt, and is considered by

the peasants as sacred water, because it is cathartic.

The sea in the bay south of the ruins is very deep;

and hence we ought probably to read in Pausanias

(ix. 23. § 7), AifiV 5* o<plo:v iariv 4yxttfaWj$,

instead of Afj/rn, since there is no land-lake at this

place. The ruins of Upper Larymna lie at Bazaraki,

on the right bank of the Cephissus, at the place

where it issues from its subterranean channel.

(Leake, Northern Greece, vol. ii. p. 287, seq.;

Ulrichs, Reisen in Griechenland, p. 229, beq.)

LARY'SIUM. [Gythium.]

LAS (Aaos, Horn.; Aay, Scyl., Pans., Strab.; An,

Steph. B. s. v.: Etk. Aaos), one of the most ancient

towns of Laconia, situated upon the western coast

of the Laconian gulf. It is the only town on the

coast mentioned by Scylax (p. 17) between Tue-

narus and Gythium. Scylax speaks of its port;

but, according to Pausanias, the town itself was dis­

tant 10 stadia from the sea, and 40 stadia from

Gythium. (Pans, iii. 24. § 6.) In the time of

Pausanias the town lay in a hollow between the

three mountains, Asia, Ilium, and Cnaeadiuin; but

the old town stood on the summit of Alt. Asia.

The name of Las signified the rock on which it

originally stood. It is mentioned by Homer (11. ii

K

