IS4 LIGURIA. LIGURIA.

Iberia, thus pointing to a still wider extension of

their power (Thuc vi. 2.) But while the Ligu­

rian settlements to the W. of the Rhone are more

obscure and uncertain, the tribes thai extended from

that river to the Maritime Alps and the confines of

Italy—the Salyes, Oxybii, and Deciates—are as­

signed on good authority to the Ligurian race.

(Strah. iv. pp. 202, 203; Pol. xxxiii. 7, 8.) On their

eastern frontier, aUo, the Ligurian* were at one time

more widely spread than the limits above described.

Polyhius tells ua that in his time they occupied the

wa-coast as far as Pi.sae, which was the tir»t city of

Etruria: and in the interior they held the mountain

districts as far as the confines of the Arretines. (Pol.

ii. 16.) In the narrative of their wars with Rome

in the 2nd century B.C., as given in Livy, we find

them extending to the same limits: and Lycophron

represents them at a much earlier period as stretch­

ing far down the coast of Ktruria. before the arrival

of the Tyrrhenians, who wrested from them by force

of .inns the site of Pisae and other cities. (Lycophr.

AUx, 1356.) The population of Corsica also

is ascribed by Seneca, and probably with good

reason, to a Ligurian stock. [Corsica.] On the

N. of the Apennines, in like manner, it is probable

that the Ligurians were f:ir more widely spread,

before the settlement of the Gauls, who occupied the

fertile plains and drove them hack into the moun­

tains. Thus the Laevi and Libici, who occupied the

banks of the Ticinus, appo:ir to have been of Ligurian

race (Plin. iii. 17. s, 21; Liv. v. .'35): the Taurit.i,

who certainly dwelt on both banks of the Patlns,

were unquestionably a Ligurian tribe; and there

fieeina much reason to assign the same origin to the

Salassi alio.

In regard to the national affinities or origin of the

Ligurians themselves, we are almost wholly in the

dark. We know only that they were not either

llK-rians or Gauls. Strabo tells us distinctly that

they were of a different race from the Gauls or Celts

who inhabited the rest of the Alps, though they re­

sembled them in their mode of life. (Strab. ii. p.

128.) And the same thing is implied in the marked

distinction uniformly observed by Livy and other

Human writers between the Gaulish and Ligurian

tribes, notwithstanding their close geographical

proximity, and their frequent alliance in war. Dio-

nysius says that the origin and descent of the

Ligurians was wholly unknown, and Cato aptiears to

have arqaieaed in a similar conclusion. (Dionys.

i. 10; Cato. ap. Srrv. ad Am. xi. 715.) But ail

ancient authors appear to have agreed in regarding

them as one of the most ancient nations of Italy;

and on this account Philistus represented the Siculi

as a Liiiurian tribe, while other ant born assigned the

same origin to the Aborigines of Latium. (Dionys.

I. 10. 22.) Several modern writers have maintained

the Celtic origin or affinity of the Ligurians.

(Cluver. Ital. pp. 49 — 51; Grotefend. AU.-ItalUn,

voL ii. pp. 5 — 7.) But the authority of Strabo

seems decisive against any close connection between

the two races: and it is impossible, in the absence of

nil remains of their language, to form even a reason­

able conjecture as to their more remote affinities. A

fact mentioned by Plutarch (J/ar. 19). according to

whom the Ligurians in the army of Marius called

themselves in their own language Ambrones, though

curious, is much too isolated and uncertain to be re­

ceived as reasonable proof of a common origin with

the Gauls of that name.

The name of the Ligurians appears to hare been

obscurely known to the Greeks from a very early

period, for even Hesied noticed them, in conjunction

with the Scythians and Aethiopians,—evidently u

one of the most distant nations of the then kiwwn

world. (Hesiod. ap. Strab. vii. p. 300.) Bat from

the time of the foundation of the flourishing Grtrk

colony of Massilia, which speedily extended ivA only

its commerce but its colonies along the shores of

Liguria, as well as those of Iberia, the name of t!*

Ligurians must have become familiar to the Greeks

and was, as we have seen, well known to Hecaur-..

and Aeschylus. The Ligurians seem also from an

early period to have been ready to engage as mer­

cenary troops in the service of more civilised nation*;

and we find Ligurian auxiliaries already mentioned

in the great army of the Carthaginian general

Hamilcar, in n.c 480. (Herod, vii. 165; Diod.

xi. 1.) The Greek despots in Sicily continued to

recruit their mercenary forces from the same quarter

as late as the time of Agathocles. (Diod. xxi. :\)

The Greeks of Massilia founded colonies along the

coast of Liguria as far as Nicaea and the Port-^s

Herculis Monoeti, but evidently never established

their power far inland, and the mountain tribes of

the Ligurians were left in the enjoyment of nadis-

turl>ed independence.

It was not till the year 237 B. c. that the Ligu­

rians, for the first time, came into contact with the

arms of Home ; and P. Lentulns Candinua, one of the

consuls of the following year, was the first who cele­

brated a triumph over them. (Eutrop. iii. 2; Liv.

Epit. xx.: Fast, Capit.) But the successes of th«

Romans at this period were evidently very partial

and incomplete, and though we find one of this con­

suls for several years in succession sent against il>e

Ligurians), and the name of that people appears three

times in the triumphal Fasti (b. c. 233—223). it

is evident that nothing more was accomplished than

to prevent them from keeping the field and compel

them to take refuge in the mountains (Zonar. viiL

18, 19). The Ligurian tribes with whom tie

Romans were at this time engaged in hostilities

were exclusively those on the X. of the Apennines,

who made common cause with the neighbouring

Gaulish tribes of the Boians and Insubrian*. The**

petty hostilities were for a time interrupted by tlte

more important contest of the Second Punic War.

During that struggle the Ligurians openly aided

with the Carthaginian.*: they sent support to Han­

nibal, and furnished an important contingent to Us*

army with which Hasdruhal fought at the Metauru*.

Again, before the close of the war, when Mac*

landed in their territory, and made it the base of hU

operations against Cisalpine Gaul, the Librarians

espoused his cause with zeal, and jvepared to sup-.

]«>rt him with their whole forces (Liv. xxii 33,

xxvii. 47, xxviii. 46, xxix. 5). After the untimely

fate of Mago, and the close of the war, the Romans

were in no haste to punish the Ligurians and Gauk

for their defection, but those nations were the first

to take up arms, and, at the instigation of the Car­

thaginian Hamilcar, broke out into open hostilities,

(n.c 200), and attacked the Roman colonies) of

Pkueutia and Cremona. (Liv. xxxL 10.)

From this time commenced the long series of wan

between the Romans and Ligurians, which continued

with little intermission for above eighty years. It would

be impossible to give here any detailed accuunt uf

these lung protracted, but desultory hostilities; in­

deed we ]*w>es*, in reality, rt-ry little information reo-

cerning them. So long aa the books of Livy are pre-

