TIERNA. TIFERNUS. 1207

i a.d. 170, in which the Alemanni, who had in-

>dtd Italy, wen finally defeated by the Emperor

[turban (Vict. Epit. 85): the other iu a.d. 352,

rtwern the riral emperors Magnentius and Con-

lantius. (/». 43.) [E. H. B.]

TIERNA (called by Ptol. Alspvo, iii. 8. § 10), a

jwn of Dacia on the Danube, opposite to the castle

f Zeroes (Old Onova) in Moesia. In inscriptions

r find h called Statin Tsiernensis (Marat, p. 332.

; Grisrhni, L p. 265); in the Digest (de Cent.

(), Coknia Zernensium; and in the Not. Imp.

c 3), Tram Diernis. [T. H. D.]

TIFATA (t« Ti^ornvi Sjnj, Dion Cass.: Monte

i MaiUalom), a mountain ridge on the borders of

'impania and Samnium, only about a mile from the

ity of Capoa. It is one of the last outlying masses

f the Apennines, and is a long, narrow ridge of no

teat elevation, but above 12 miles in length from

to W., and presenting a bold and steep mountain

■•tit towards the Campsnian plain, upon which it

fki directly down. The name was derived accord-

ig to Festus from the woods of evergreen oak with

'hich it was covered, "Tifata" being equivalent

) " ilicets," though whether it was an Oacan or old

Mia word, we are not told. (Fest. ». p. Tifata.)

I is first mentioned daring the war between the

amnites and Campanians which immediately pre-

iM the First Ssmnite War. On that occasion the

amnites in the first instance occupied the ridge

-rif with a strong force, and afterwards drew out  
heir main army into the plain below, where they

on defeated the Campanians in a pitched battle.

Lit. vii. 29.) Livy calls it on this occasion "Ti-

imminentes Capuae col lea," and elsewhere

imminentem Capuae" (xxvi. 5), which

its character and situation. It was

liis opportune position with regard to Capua and

surrounding plain, that caused it to be selected

y Hannibal as a post where he established his

i-np in B. c. 215, and from whence he long carried

n his operations against the various cities of Cam-

•nis, (Id. xxiii. 36, 37, 39, 43, xxvi. 5; Sil.

til. iii. 487.) At a later period it was in the

lam at the foot of Tifata that Sulla defeated the

linan general Norbanus, B. c. 83; and in grati-

aiir for this victory, he consecrated a considerable

net of territory to Diana, the tutelary goddess of

he mountain. (Veil. Fat. ii. 25.) We hence learn

hat that divinity bad a celebrated temple on Tifata,

»i the " Dianae Tifatinae fanum" is noticed also

- inscriptions found at Capua. From one of these  
■ learn that the consecrated territory was again

s'ljoed to the goddess by Vespasian. (Orell.

micr. 1460, 3055.) As the Tabula marks a sta­

in " Ad Dianae" near the W. extremity of the

idge, it is probable that the temple was situated in

ha: neighbourhood. (Tab. Peut.) From the same

utharity we learn that Jupiter, who was worshipped

0 » many of the highest points of the Apennines,

ad a temple also on Tifata, to which it gives the

ante of J oris Tifatiiins. It is placed in the Tabula

1 the E. extremity of the ridge. {Tab. Prut.)

igain in s. c. 48 the fastnesses of this mountain

hl^e afforded a shelter to Milo when driven from

'sfua. (Dion Cass. xlii. 25.) This is the last

■me its name is mentioned in history, and it is not

uticed by any of the geographers: in the middle

the name seems to have been wholly forgotten;

M the mountain is now called from a neighbouring

ilUee the Mottle di Maddaloni. But the descrip-

wos of Livy and Silias lulicus leave no doubt of

the identification. It is indeed, from its proximity

to Capua and the abruptness with which it rises

from the plain, one of the most striking natural fea­

tures of this part of Campania. [E. H. B.]

TIFERNUM (Tfytpfw) was the name of two

cities or towns of Umbria, which were distinguished

by the epithets Tiberiuum and Metaurcnse (Flin. iii.

14. s. 19).

1. TirEKNCM Tiberindm, which appears to haTs

been the moat considerable place of the name, was

situated on or near the site of the modern Citta di

CatteUo, in the upper valley of the Tiber, about 20

miles TL of Arezzo. The Tifernates Tiberini are

enumerated among the municipal communities of

Umbria by Pliny (i c.)j but our principal knowledge

of the town is derived from the epistles of the younger

Pliny, whose Tuscan villa was situated in its neigh­

bourhood. For this reason the citizens had chosen

htm at a very early age to be their patron; and in

return for this honour he had built a temple there at

his own expense. (1'lin. Ep. iv. 1.) lie afterwards

adorned this with statues of the various Roman em­

perors, to which he in one of his letters begs leave

to add that of Trajan {lb. x. 24). From the cir­

cumstance that Pliny's villa itself was in Etruria

(whence he always calls it his Tuscan villa), while

Tifernum was certainly in Umbria, it is evident that

the frontier of the two countries ran very near the

latter place, very probably as that of the Tuscan

and Roman States does at the present day, between

Citta di CatteUo and Borgo S. Sepolcro. The po­

sition of Tifernum on nearly the same site with the

former of these cities seems to be well established by

the inscriptions found there and reported by Cluverius

(Cluver. Ital p. 624; Gruter, lutcr. p. 494. 5).

But it was probably situated rather further from

the Tiber, as Pliny describes it as being, like Perugia

and Ocriculum," not far" from that river (Plin. iii.

5. s. 9), while the modern Citta di CatteUo almost

adjoins its banks.

The precise site of Pliny's Tuscan villa cannot be

ascertained, as the terms in which he describes its

position {Ep. v. 6) will apply to many localities on

the underfills of the Apennines in the upper valley

of the Tiber. It is, however, most probable that it

| was situated (as suggested by Cluverius) in the

neighbourhood of Borgo S. Sepolero, about 10 miles

N. of Citta di CatteUo, rather than in the immediate

vicinity of Tifernum. (Cluver. ItaL p. 590.)

2. Tifsrkum Metaurkxsjs was evidently, as

its name implies, situated on the other side of tlio

Apennines, in the valley of the Metaurus. Its name

is mentioned only by Pliny among ancient writers;

but it is found in several inscriptions (in which the

citizens are termed, as by Pliny, Tifernates Metau-

rcnaea), and the discovery of these at 5. Anytlo m

Vado leaves no doubt that Tifernum occupied the

same site as that town, near the sources of the Me­

taurus, about 20 miles above Fottombront. (Forum

Sempronii). (Cluver. Ital. p. 621; Orell. liter.

3049, 3305, 3902.)

It is uncertain which of the towns above mentioned

is the Tifernum of Ptolemy (iii. I. § 53); perhaps

the first has the better claim. [E.H.B.]

TIFERNUS (*iTt^»of, Ptol.: Bi/ermo), one of

the most considerable rivers of Samnium, which has

its sources in the heart of that country, near Bovi-

anum {Bojuno), in a lofty group of mountains, now

known by the same name as the river {Monte Bi-

Jerno). This is evidently the same which is called

by Livy the Tifkbni's Moss, which the (~

4 H 4

