436 NILCS. NILVS.

hippopotamus is represented on the monuments of

the Thebaic], but not on those of Middle or Lower

Aegypt. The crocodile was caught with a hook

baited with the chine of a pig (Herod, ii. 68), or

with nets. (Diodor. i. 35.) It was an object of

worship in some uomes [Arsinoe; Omros], of ab­

horrence in others [Tkntyra.]

The boats of the Nile, as represented on the monu­

ments, exhibit a great variety of size and form.

There was the canoe, made of a single trunk; the

shallop of papyrus, rendered water-tight by bitumen;

and there were even vessels constructed of light

earthenware. (Juven. Sat. xv. 129.) The most

umuiI sjiecies of craft, however, is a boat whose bow

and stem are high out of the water, square rigged,

with sails either of canvass or papyrus, a single

mast that could he lowered in high winds, and a

shallow keel, in order to allow of easy extrication of

the vessel should it run aground. But the most

striking and capacious boat employed on the Nile

was the large Baris, used for the transportation

of goods. (Herod, ii. 96.) It was built of the

hard wood of the Sont (Acanthe); the sails were

made of papyrus, and the seams caulked with an

oakum conijswcd from the fibres of that plant.

These barges were propelled by as many as forty

rowers ranged on the same level, and their tonnage

amounted to three, four, and even five hundred

tons. These Bans wen1 towed up the stream, if the

wind were not strong enough to impel them against

it, or floated down it, with combined action of sail

and oars, and steered by one or more large paddles

at the stern. Parties of pleasure, visits of ceremony,

and marriage processions, alike added to the floating

population of the river; but perhaps the most im­

pressive spectacles winch it presented were the

pomp and circumstance of funerals. On the tombs

of bpeos Artemidos (BenUtassan) is depictured

the barge of Amenemhe conveying the females

of his house. It has an awning like a gondola,

and is one of the half-decked boats (tncdQai

&*Aafirjyoi) of which Strabo speaks (xvii. p. 800).

In such a vessel Caesar intended, but tor the indig­

nant murmurs of his legions, to have ascended the

Nile with Cleopatra from Alexandria to the first

Cataract. (Sueton. Jul. 58.) The tomb of Rameses

IV. at Thebes exhibits a royal barge. The hall,

the cabin (ddAafiot), the rudder, and the masts are

painted of a gold colour; the sails are diapered and

fringed with various brilliant hues; the phoenix and

the vulture are embroidered upon them. The eye

of 0*iris is painted on the rudder, and its handles

represent the royal emblems—the uraeus and the

pichtnt, or head of a divinity. The splendour of

(he Bans on the monuments recalls that of the vessel

which carried Cleopatra up the Cydnus to meet

M. Antonius at Tarsus. (Plut. Anton, c. 26.)

It was a favourite amusement of the Aegyptians,

in later times especially, to row rapidly in boats,

and hurl and thrust at one another as they passed

blunt javelins or jeruls. Such a scene is repre­

sented on the tomb of Im.it at Gizeh, one of the

oldest monuments of Aegypt. They delighted also

in trailing up and down the river-arm a and lakes

of the Delta, and feasting under the shadow of the

tall reeds, and Aegyptian bean, which there attains

a height of many feet. (Strab. xvii. p. 823, and

generally Koselliui, Sfonwnenti Civili.)

The Nile was also frequently the stage on which

the great religious festivals or panegyrics were

celebrated. On such solemnities the population of

entire nomes poured themselves forth- On the

day of the feast of Artemis at Bu bast is tc

inhabitants of the Delta thronged the canal* and

main streams, while thousands descended from

the middle country and the Tbebaid to be j*e-

sent at the ceremonies. The decks of the Bari*

were crowded with devotees of either sex, and tie

loud music of the pipe and cymbal was sceto-

panied by songs and hymns, and clapping of hard*.

As they neared any town the passengers ran the barges

along shore and recruited their numbers with fresh

votaries. As many as 700,000 persons, ear 1 wave of

children, were sometimes assembled at Buba±lK or

at the equally popular festival of Isis at Bo-im.

Numerous sacrifices were offered in the temples of

the goddesses, and, whether in libations or to re­

velry, more wine was consumed on the*e occasion

than in all the rest of the year. (Comp, Herod, a.

61, 62, with Clemens Alexand. Cohort, vol. I p. IT.)

That the Nile should have been an object of wor­

ship with the Aegyptians, and that its una^e and

phenomena should have entered deeply into their

whole religious system, was unavoidable. A* re­

garded its external aspect, it flowed between **s*\

and rock, the sole giver and sustainer of lire tn that

valley of death: it was, both in its increment and its

decrease, in its course through vast solitudes, aid

thronged populations alternately, the most sugre*u»s

and expressive of emblems for a religi'o which re­

presented in such marked contrast, the realm* trf

creation and destruction, of Osiris and Typh>».

The Nile—as Oceanus, or the watery element —

was a member of the first Ogdnad of the Acyrntiam

theology (Diodor. i. 6 — 26), the opponent of Phtah,

the elemental fire, and the companion of the earth

(Demeter), the air (Neith), Zeus or Atnun, the

quickening spirit, Osiris and lsis, the Son and

Moon. It was thus one of the primitive eaMorea,

higher than any member of the second OgdaswL rr lit

visible objects of adoration. (Heliod. Attkiop. ix.

9; Schol. m Pwd. Pyth. iv. 99.) It had its osrn

hieratic emblem on the monuments, sometimes as

the ocean embracing the earth, sometimes, a* In 'J*

temple of Osiris at Philae, as the assistant >A Ptrufe

in the creation of Osiris. The wild crocodile vn an

emblem of Typhon (Plutarch, /a. el Our. p. 371);

but the tamed crocodile was the symbol of the restJy

swelling, beneficent Nile. (Euaeb. Prorp. f'rampt

iii. 11.) Osiris is sometimes, but ineorrectlv. «*/i

(Tibull. EUg. i. 7, 27) to be the Nile it**lf'(rius.

Is. et Osir. c. 33): there is no doubt, however, that

it was personified and received divine honour*. A

festival called Niloa was celebrated at the tirrw ef

the first rise of the waters, i. e. about the tnouw

solstice, at which the priests were arcnsTt-aard t»

drop pieces of coin, and the Roman prefect of the

Thebaid golden ornaments, into the river near rtriast

(Senec. A'af. QuaeiL iv. 2, 7); indeed there nsasC

have been a priesthood specially dedicated to the

great river, Bince, according to Herodotoa (ii- \Q\\

none but a priest of the Nile could burr the rerpei

of a person drowned in its waters. Templet wet

rarely appropriated to the Nile alone; yet Be-

cataeus (ap. Steph. s. r. N«tXof) speaks of one. fee

the town of Ncilus, which stood iu the Heracles

polite nome, near the entrance of the feoww*. la

the quarries at SiUilU several utelae are in*«-nS»d

with acts of adoration to the river, who is joined »i;i

Phrc and Phtah. Its symbol in hsrnyr* \k.tr» a

read Moou, and the last in the group of the riisr.

acters composing it, is a symbol of water. Aixeeduej

