LAODICEIA. 123 LAPATHUS.

seats still perfectly horizontal, though merely laid

upon the gravel), are well deserving of notice. Other

beddings, also, on the top of the hill, are full of

interest; and on the east the line of the ancient

wall may be distinctly traced, with the remains of a

gateway; there is also a street within and without

tie town, Banked by the ruins of a colonnade and

numerous pedestals, leading to a confused heap of

fallen ruins on the brow of the hill, about 200 yards

outside the walls. North of the town, towards the

Lycos, are many sarcophagi, with their covers lying

near them, partly imbedded in the ground, and all

baring been long since rified.

u Amongst other interesting objects are the remains

of an aqueduct, commencing near the summit of a

ltw hill to the south, whence it is carried on arches

of small square stones to the edge of the hill. The

water must have been much charged with calcareous

matter, as several of the arches are covered with a

thick incrustation. From this hill the aqueduct

crossed a valley before it reached the town, but,

instead of being carried over it on lofty arches, as

was the usual practice of the Romans, the water

was conveyed down the hill in stone barrel-pipes;

some of these also are much incrusted, and some

ompletely choked up. It traversed ■ the plain in

pipes of the same kind ; and I was enabled to trace

theai the whole way, quite up to its former level in

the town. The aqueduct appears to have

been overthrown by an earthquake, as the remaining

arches lean bodily oa one side, without being much

broken

"The stadium, which is in a good state of pre­

servation, is near the southern extremity of the city.

The seats, almost perfect, are arranged along two

sides of a narrow valley, which appears to have been

taken advantage of for this purpose, and to have

been closed up at both ends. Towards the west are

considerable remains of a subterranean passage, by

wbirh chariots arid horses were admitted into the

arena, with a long inscription over the entrance.

.... The whole area of the ancient city is covered

with ruined buildings, and I could distinguish the

sites of several temples, with the bases of the

columns still in situ The ruias bear the stamp

of Kotnan extravagance and luxury, rather than of

the stem and massive solidity of the Greeks. Strabo

attributes the celebrity of the place to the fertility

of the soil and the wealth of some of its inhabitants:

amongst whom Hiero, having adorned the city with

many beautiful buildings, bequeathed to it more

than 2000 talents at his death." (Comp. Fellows,

Journal icritten in Aria Minor, p. 280, foil.;

Leake, Asia Minor, p. 251, foil.) [L. S.j

LAODICEIA AD LIBANUM (AaoSlxua i,

vplt \iii-.y). mentioned by Strabo (xvi. p. 755) as

the eemmencement of the Marsyas Campus, which

mended along the west side of the Orontes, near its

Mmre. [Marstas Campus.] It is called Cabiosa

Lt-alieeia by Ptolemy (KaSiWa Aaoo\'«eia, v. 15),

•M gives its name to a district (AooSucnrr}), in

which he places two other towns, Paradisus (Tlapa-

W«t) and Jabruda ('ItfoVouJa). Pliny (v. 23),

aTimj other people of Syria, reckons " ad orientem

I*<hceno». qui ad Libannm cognominantur." [G.W.]

LAODICEIA AD MARE, a city of Syria, south

•f Hejucleia [VoL I. p. 1050], described by Strabo

(m pp. 751, 752) as admirably built, with an ex­

cellent harbour, surrounded by a rich country spe­

cially fruitful in vines, the wine of which furnished

as chief supply to Alexandria. The vineyards were

planted on the sides of gently-sloping hills, which

were cultivated almost to their summits, and ex­

tended far to the cast, nearly to Apatneia. Strabo

mentions that Dolabella, when he fled to this city

before Cassius, distressed it greatly, and that, being

besieged there until his death, he destroyed many

parts of the city with him, a. d. 43. [Diet of Bioij.

Vol. I. p. 1059.] It was built by Seleucus Nicator,

and named after his mother. It was furnished with

an aqueduct by Herod the Great (Joseph. />'.,/. i.:! 1.

§ 11), a large fragment of which is still to be seen.

(Shaw, Travels, p. 262.)

The modern city is named Ixtdikiyeh, and still

exhibits faint traces of its former importance, not­

withstanding the frequent earthquakes with which

it has been visited. Irby and Mangles noticed that

"the Marina is built upon foundations of ancient

columns," and " there are in the town, an old gate­

way and other antiquities," as also sarcophagi and

sepulchral caves in the neighbourhood. {Travels,

p. 223.) This gateway has been more fully de­

scribed by Shaw ((. c ) and Pocockc, as " a remark­

able triumphal arch, at the SE. corner of the town,

almost entire: it is built with four entrances, like

the Forum Jani at Rome. It is conjectured that this

arch was built in honour of Lucius Verus, or of Sep-

timius Severus." {Description of the East, vol. ii.

p. 197.) Shaw noticed several fragments of Greek

and Latin inscriptions,dispersed all over the ruins, but

entirely defaced. Pococke states that it was a very

inconsiderable place till within fifty years of his visit,

when it opened a tobacco trade with Damietta, and

it has now an enormous traffic in that article, for

which it is far more celebrated than ever it was

for its wine. The port is half an hour distant from

the town, very small, but better sheltered than any

on the coast. Shaw noticed, a furlong to the west

of the town, "the ruins of a beautiful cothon, in

figure like an amphitheatre, and capacious enough

to receive the whole British navy. The mouth of

it opens to the westward, and is about 40 feet

wide." [G.W.]

COIN OF LAODICEIA AD MARE.

LAODICEIA (AooSiMia). 1. A town in Media,

founded by Seleucus Nicator, along with the two

other Hellenic cities of Apameia and Heracleia.

(Strab. xi. p. 524; Steph. B. ». r.) Pliny (vi. 29)

describes it as being in the extreme limits of Media,

and founded by Antiochus. The site has not yet

been identified. (Ritter, Erdhmde, vol. viii. p. 599.)

2. A town which Pliny (vi. 30) places along with

Seleuceia and Artemita in Mesopotamia, [E. B. J.]

LAPATHUS, a fortress near Mount Olympus.

[Ascubis.]

LAPATHUS, LAPETHUS (Ad>afloi, Strab.

xiv. p. 682; AaVn0os, Ptol. v. 14. § 4; Plin. v. 31;

Aijwnflis, Scyl. p. 41; AdwiSoj, Hierocl.: Eth. A*.

T-nBiis, Aaw7)0ios : iMpitlm, Lapla),ix town of Cyprus,

the foundation of which was assigned to the Phoeni­

cians (Steph. B. s. v.), and which, according to Xonnus

