476 OLYMPIA. OLYMPIA.

which was covered in the more finished parts by a

surface of stucco, which pave it the appearance of

marble. It waa of the Doric order, ami a peripteral

hexaatyle building. Accordingly it bad six columns

in the front and thirteen on the sides. The co­

lumns were fluted, and 7ft. 4m. in diameter, a size

greater than that of any other existing columns of a

Grecian temple. The length of the temple was 230

Greek feet, the breadth 95, the height to the sum­

mit of the pediment 68. The roof was covered

with slabs of Pentelic marble in the form of tiles.

At each end of the pediment stood a gilded vase,

and on the apex a gilded statue of Nike or Victory;

below which was a golden shield with the head of

Medusa in the middle, dedicated by the Lacedaemo­

nians on account of their victory over the Athenians

at Tanagra in n. c. 457. The two pediments were j

filled with figures. The eastern pediment had a

statue of Zeus in the centre, with Oenomaus on his i

right and Pelopx on his left, prepared to contend in

the chariot-race; the figures un cither side consisted

of their attendants, and in the angles were the two

rivers, Cladeus to the right of Zeus, and Alpheiua

to his left. In the western pediment wis lift s&

test of the Centaurs and the Lapitbae. Perntboa

occupying the central place. On the mttopw m

the doors at the eastern and western end* the asm

of Hercules were represented. In its interior«■

st ruction the temple resembled the Fartheiwn. 71

cella consisted of two chambers, of which the oasj

contained the statue, and the western wis called it

Opusthodomus. The colossal statue of Ztus, u

master-work of Pheidias, was made of irory ■

gold. It stood at the end of the front chamber

the cella, directly facing the entrance, so that iti

once showed it>elf in all its grandeur to a sal

tator entering the temple. The approach to M

between a double row of columns, supporting!

roof. The cod was seated on a macnificrtit tf

adorned with sculptures, a full description of i

as well as of the statue, has been given ins

place. [Diet of BUxjr. Vol. III. p. 252.]

the Opisthodomoa of the temple was the Cai

HUM or wild olive tree, which furnished the (

of the Olympic victors. (Pans. v. 15. § S.)

"3

:!

lit I"

•

• i

•

1

m

GROUND PLAN OF THE OLTMPIEICM.

2. The Pdopmm stood opposite the temple of

Zeus, on the other side of the Pompic way. Its po­

sition is defined by Pansanias, who says that it

Stood to the right of the entrance into the temple of

Zeus and to the north of that building. It was an

enclosure, containing trees and statues, having an

opening to the west. (Palis, v. 13. § 1.)

3. The Ueraeum was the must important temple

in the Altis after that of Zeus It was also a Doric

peripteral building. Its dimensions are unknown.

Pansanias says (v. 1G. § 1) that it was 63 feet in

length: but this is clearly a mistake, since no perip­

teral building was so small; and the numerous

statues in the cella, described by Pansanias, clearly

show that it must have been of considerable dimen­

sions. The two most remarkable monuments in the

llerneum were the table, on which were placed the

garlands prepared for the victors in the Olympic

contests, and the celebrated chest of CypselttS,

covered with figures in relief, of which Pausanias

lias given an elaborate description (v. 17—19). We

learn from a passage of Dion Chrysostom (Oral. si.

p. 163), cited by Leake, that this chest stood in the

opisthodomus of the Heraenm; whence we may

infer that the cella of the temple consisted of two

apartments.

4. The Grtat Altar of Zem is described by

Pausanias as equidistant from the Pelopium and the

Heraeum, and as being in front of them both. I

(Pans. v. 13. § 8.) Leake places the Haw

near the IV-mpic entrance of the Stadium, i

j>o>es that it faced ea>tward; accordingly I

jectures that the altar was opposite to 1"

fronts of the Pelopium and the He

total height of the altar was 22 feet. It i

platforms, of which the upper was made of I

ders of the thighs sacrificed on this and c

5. The Column of Oenomaus slued

great altar and the temple of Zeus. It l

have belonged to the house of Oenocnaua, I

have been the only part of the building mhk

caped when it was burnt by lightning, (h

20. § G.)

6. The .Vetrottm, or temple of the Mother

Gods, was a large Doric building, situ

the Altis (Pans. v. 20. § 9.) It is placed I

to the left of the Pompic Way nearly <

Heraeum.

7. The Piytaneium is placed by ]

the Altis, near the Gymnasium, which j

the sacred enclosure (v. 15. § S.)

8. The Btmleuttrion^ or Council-Ho

have Wen near the Prvtaneium. (P»u

24. § I.)

9. The Philippeinm, a circular bulk

by Philip after the battle of Chaeroneia, 1

left in proceeding from the entrance of l

the Prvtaneium. (Pan*, v. 17. § 4, v. *a j

