TYNDAR15 1247 TYRACIA.

lyndsrii expelled the Carthaginian parnson, anil

joined the Kalian alliance. (Dial, xxiii. p. 505.)

\\c bear bat little of Tyndaris under the Rowan

:ovenuneot, but it ap}«ars to have been a flourishing

iiki considerable city. Cicero calls it "uobilissima

:.tita» " (Vtrr. iii. 43), and we learn from him that

w inhabitants had duplayed their teal and fidelity

>'« vdi the Roman* upon many occasions. Among

itLcn they supplied naval forces to the armament

i Sripio Airicanua tho Younger, a service for which

* mjuited them by restoring them a statue of Mer-  
hit which had been carried off by the Carthagi-

■tiu. aod which continued an object of great vene-

itim in the city, till it was again carried off by the

sjiaaous Verres. (Cic. Verr. iv. 39—42, v. 47.)

< intaris was also one of seventeen cities which had

rra selected by the Human senate, apparently as an

noorsry distinction, to contribute to certain offerings

i the temple of Venus at Eryx. (/6. T. 47;

umpt, ad toe. ; Diod. it, 63.) In other respects

liad no peculiar privileges, and was in the condi-

oo of au ordinary municipal town, with its own

ajtstrates, local senate, &c, bat was certainly in

•e uiue of Cicero one of the most considerable places

toe island. It, however, suffered severely from

is exactions of Verres (Cic. Verr. II. cc.), and the

habitants, to reTcuge themselves on their oppressor,

ibhely demolished his statue as soon as he had

lilted the island, {lb. ii. 66.)

Tyndaris again bore a considerable part in the war

tween Sextos Pumpeius and Octavian (b. c. 36).

»as one of the points occupied and fortified by the

mier, when preparing for the defence of the Sici-

in straits, but was taken by Agripjia after his naval

3ury at Mylae, and became one of his chief posts,

m which he carried on offensive warfare against

anpvy. (Appian, II. C. v. 105, 109, 116.) Sub-

jjfiitly to this we hear nothing more of Tyndaris

lu-tory ; but there is no doubt of its having con.

toed to subsist throughout the period of the Roman

i![>ire. Strabo speaks of it as one of the places

lie N. coast of Sicily which, in Iris time, still de-

ned the name of cilia; and Pliny gives it the

le of a Colouia. It is probable that it received a

'4iy under Augustus, as we find it bearing in au

■criptiao the titles of " Colonia Augusta Tyndarita-

mn." (Strah. vi. p..272 ; Plin. iii. 8. a. 14;

in. 4. § 2 ; Orell. Inter. 955.) Pliny indeed

iitiuos a great calamity which the city had sus-

o«J, when (be tells us) half of it was swallowed

by the sea, probably from an earthquake having

i*d the fall of part of the hill on which it stands,

■ we have no clue to the date of this event;

lin. ii. 92. a. 94.) The Itineraries attest the ex-

■nce of Tyodaris, apparently still as a considerable

cm. in the fourth century, (/(in. Ant. pp. 90,

; Tab. /Vsjs.)

The sits of Tyndaris is now wholly deserted, but

name is retained by a church, which crowns the

»t elevated point of the hill on which the city

merly stool, and is still called the Madonna di

tdaro. It is 650 feet above the sea-level, and

us a conspicuous landmark to sailors. Const­

able ruins of the ancient city are also visible. It

upted the whole plateau or summit of the hill, and

remains of the ancient walls may be traced, at in-

>»!*, all round the brow of the cliffs, except in one

t, facing the sea, where the cliff is now quite preci­

se. It ia not improbable that it is here that a

t uf the cliff fell in, in the manner recorded by

tf (ii. 92. a- 94). Two gates of the city are also

still distinctly to be traced. The chief monuments,

of which the ruins are still extant within the circuit

of the walls, are: the theatre, of which the remains

are in imperfect condition, but sufficient to show that

it was not of large size, and apparently of Roman

construction, or at least, like that of Tauromenium,

rebuilt in Roman times upon the Greek foundations;

a large edifice with two handsome stone arches, com­

monly called a Gymnasium, but the real purpose of

which is very difficult to determine; several other edi­

fices of Roman times, but of wholly uncertain cha­

racter, a mosaic pavement, and some Roman tombs.

(Serra di Falco, Antichita dtlla Sieilia, vol. v. part

vi.; Smyth's Sicily, p. 101; Hoare's Classical Tour,

vol. ii. p. 217, &c) Numerous inscriptions, frag­

ments of sculpture, and architectural decorations, aa

well as coins, vases, &c. have also been discovered on

the site. [E. H B.]

TYNDIS (Tfofit, PtoL vii. 1. § 16), a river of

India intra Gangem, which flowed into the Bay of

Bengal. There is great doubt which of two rivers,

the Manades (Mahandda) or the Maesolus {Gvda-

very), represents this stream. According to Manner*

it was the southern branch of the former river (v. 1.

p. 173). Rut, on the whole, it is more likely that

it is another name for the Ooddeery. [ V.]

TYNIDRUMENSE OPP. [Thi'nudbomo*.]

TYNNA (liwa), a place in Cataonia or the

southern part of Cappadocia, in the neighbourhood

of Faustinopolis, is mentioned only by Ptolemy

(v. 7. § 7). [L. &]

TYPAEUS. [0I.YMFIA.]

TYPA'NEAE (Tvwarku. Polyb. Steph. B.; Tuu.

troWw, Strab.; Tvu.*dVfia, Ptol.: Elh. Towawdrni),

a town of Triphylia in Elis, mentioned by btrsbo

along with Hypana. It was taken by Philip in the

Social War. It was situated in the mountains in

the interior of the country, but its exact site is un­

certain. Leake supposes it to be represented by the

ruins near J'lutiana; but Boblaye supposes these In

be the remains of Aepy or Acpium [Aw*], and

that Typaneae stood on the hill of ilalrysia. (Strab.

viii. p. 343; Polyb. iv. 77—79 ; Steph. B. >. r;

Ptol. iii. 1C. § 18; Leake, ilurta, vol. ii. p. 82;

Boblaye, Recherchti, ije. p. 133; Ross, Reuenim

Pelopotma, p. 105 ; Curtius, I'clopcmncios, vol. ii.

p. 89.)

TYKA'CIA or TYRACI'NA (Twpoiru-w. Steph.

B : Eth. Tyracienais, Plin.), a city of Sicily, of

which very little is known. It is noticed by

Stephanus as " a small but flourishing city; * and

the Tyracienses are mentioned by Pliny among the

municipal communities of the interior of Sicily.

(Steph. B. s. v.: Plin. iii. 8. a. 14.) It is doubtful

whether the "Tyracinus, princeps civitatis," men.

tioned by Cicero (Verr. iii. 56) is s citiien of

Tyracia or one of Helorus who bore the proper

name of Tyracinus. In either case the name was

probably derived from the city: but though the

existence of this is clearly established, we are

wholly without any clue to its {icsition.

Several writers would identify the Tkisacia

(Tpu/aa-la) of Uiodoms (xii. 29), which that writer

describes as having been one of the chief towua of

the Siculi, until it was taken and destroyed by the

Syracusans in B. c. 439, with the Tyracinae of

Stephanus and Tyracia of Pliny. Both mimes

being otherwise unknown, I lie readings are in both

cases uncertain: but Diodorus seems to represent

Trinacia as having been totally destroyed, which

would sufficiently account for iu not being again

