96 ITALICA. ITALIA.

undent authors bearing upon his subject, bat he

had himself travel ltd orer a great part of Italy,

noting the distances and observing the remains of

ancient towns. It is to be regretted that he has not

left us more detailed accounts of these remains of

antiquity, which have in many cases since disap­

peared, or have not been visited by any more recent

traveller. Lucas Holstenius, the contemporary and

friend of Claver, who had also visited in person

nany of the more unfrequented districts of Italy,

has left us, in his notes on Cluverius (Adnotationes

ad Cluverii Italian Antiquum, 8vo. Bomae, 1666),

a valuable supplement to the larger work, as well as

many important corrections on particular points.

It is singular how little we owe to the researches

of modern travellers in Italy. Not a single book of

travels has ever appeared on that country which

can be compared with those of Leake or Dodwell in

Greece. Swinburne's Travel* in the Tiro Sicilies is

one of the best, and greatly superior to the more

recent works of Keppel Craven on the same part of

Italy C Tow through the Southern Province! of the

Kingdom of Saplci, 4to. Lond. 1821; Excursions

in the A bruzzi and Northern Province! of Naplc!,

2 vols. 8vo. Lond. 1838). Eustace's well-known

book (Classical Tour through Italy in 1802) is

almost wholly worthless in an antiquarian point of

view. Sir U. Uoarc's Clanical Tour, intended as a

sort of supplement to the preceding, contains some

valuable notes from personal observation. Dennis's

recent work on Etruria (Cities and Cemeteries of

the Etruscans, 2 vols. 8vo. Lond. 1848) contains a

far more complete account of the antiquities and

topography of that interesting district than we pos­

sess concerning any other part of Italy. Sir W.

Gell's Topograph* of Rome and it! Vicinity (2 vols.

8vo. Lond. 1834; 2nd edit 1 vol. 1846*), taken

in conjunction with the more elaborate work of

Nihby on the same district (Anuliti delta Carta dei

IHnlorni di Roma, 3 vols. 8vo. Rune, 1849), sup­

plies much valuable information, especially what is

derived from the personal researches of the author,

but i* far from fulfilling all that we require. The

work of Weatphal on the same subject (Die Romische

Kumpagne, 4to. Berlin, 1829) is still more imper­

fect, though valuable for the care which the author

bestowed on tracing out the direction and remains of

the ancient roads throughout the district in ques­

tion. Abcken's Mittel Italien (8vo. Stuttgart,

1843) contains a good sketch of the physical geo­

graphy of Central Italy, and much information con­

cerning the antiquities of the different nations that

iuhabited it; but enters very little into the topo­

graphy of the regions he describes. The publi­

cations of the In«tituto Archcolngico at Rome (first

commenced in 1829, and continued down to the

present time), though directed more to archaeo­

logical than to|x>graohical researches, still contain

many valuable memoirs in illustration of the topo­

graphy of certain districts, as well as the still ex­

isting remains in ancient localities.

The local works and histories of particular dis­

tricts and cities in Italy are innumerable. lint

very few of them will he found to be of any real

service to the student of ancient geography. The

earlier works of this description are with few ex­

ceptions characterised by very imperfect scholarship,

an almost total want of criticism, and a blind cro-

• It is this edition which is always referred to in

the present nork.

dulity, or still blinder partiality to the native city

of each particular author. Even on those points i n

which their testimony would appear most likely to

be valuable,—such as notices of ruins, inscription.*,

and other remains of antiquity,—it must too oftwi

be received with caution, if not with sn>pirion. A

striking exception tothis general remark will be found

in the treatise of Galileo, De Situ lapygiae (Svo.

Basel, 1551; republished by Graevius in the Tk*~

saurus Antiquitatum Italiae. vol. ix. part v.);

those of Barrio on Calabria (the modern province of

the name) and Antonini on Lucania (Barrius, oSe

Antiquitate et Situ Calabriae, fol. Bomae, 17.17;

Antonini, La Lucania, 4to. Naples, 1741), though

not without their merit, are of far inferior ralne.

The results of these local researches, and the con­

clusions of their authors, will be for the most part

found, in a condensed form, in the work of the

Abate Romanelli (Antica Topografia Istorica del

Regno di Kapoli, 3 vols. 4to. Naples, 1815), which,

notwithstanding the defects of imperfect scholarship

and great want of critical sagacity, will still li

found of the greatest service to the student for the

port of Italy to which it relates. Cromer, in bia

well-known work, has almost implicitly followed

Romanelli, as far as the latter extendi; as for the

rest of Italy he has done little more than abri.l^o

the work of Cluverius, with the corrections of hi*

commentator Holstenius. Mannert, .on the con­

trary, appears to have composed his Geographie

von Italien without consulting any of the loral

writers at all, and consequently without that de­

tailed acquaintance with the actual geography of

the country which is the indispensable foundation if

all inquiries into its ancient topography. Keichard'a

work, which appears to enjoy some reputation

in Germany, is liable in a still greater degree te>

tho same charge:* while that of Korbiger is a

valuable index of references both to ancient and

modern writers, but aspires to little more. Kra­

mer's monography of the Ijike Kuiinus (Der Fu-

ciner See, 4to. Berlin, 1839) may be mentioned as

a perfect model of its kind, and stands unrivalled

as a contribution to the geography of Italy. Nie-

buhr's Lectures on the Geography of Italy (in hie

1'orfrdoe iber Alt* tender u. Volkcr-hml', pp.

318—576) contain many valuable and Important

views, especially of the physical geography in ha

connection with the history of the inhabitants. aj«l

should be read by every student of antiquity.tb"u;h

by no means free from errors of detail. [E. H. B.J

ITA'LICA eiTiiAHca, Strab. iiL p. Ml; PtoL ii.

4. § 13; 'lTaAurft, Appian, Hisp. 38: Steph. R.

!. e.), a Roman city, in the country of the Tur-

detani, in Uispania Baetica, on the right bank of

the Baetis, opposite Hist'ALlR (Serille\ from which

it was distant only 6 M. P. to the NW. (/(•'». Ant.

p. 413, comp. p. 432.) It was founded by Scipin

Africanus, on the site of the old Iberian town of

Sancios, in the Second Punic War (n. c. 207), ami

peopled with bis disabled veterans; whence it* name,

"the Italian city." It had the rank of a muni-

cipium: it is mentioned more than once in the his­

tory of the Civil Wars: and it was the native piece)

of the emperors Trajan, Hadrian, and Tbeodoius

the Great, and, as some sty, of the poet Silica

Itallcus. (See Did. of Greek and Rom. Iliog. a. s\)

* Some esvere, but well merited, strictures en  
this work ore contained in Niebuhr* lectures on

Roman History (vol UL p. xdv. 3d edit.).

