POLLENTIA. P0LYG1UM. 645

.wrmiptce, bordered by precipitous banks—are

:l« of an ancient Latin city; but whether they

>vt Ibe lite of Pulitorium, as supposed by Gcll,

17 a Irfleaae, as suggested by Nibby and adopted

y A^keu, we are wholly without the means of

iannang. (Gcll, Top. of Rome, p. 280 ; Nibby,

Imini, vol. ii. p. 571, vol. iii. p. 146—152;

AMra, lilltl ItaUen, p. 69.) The ruins at La

(.•*« are more fully noticed under the article

mi. [E. H. B.]

lMaU'NTIA. 1. (noAA«iTfo: Elk. Pollen-

to /Uewsa), a city of Liguria, situated in the

emu J Uul province, at the northern foot of the

if man, near the confluence of the Stura and

Taatro. It was about 7 miles W. of Alba Pompeia.

Jl n» tttbably a Ligurian town before the Roman

m>, ml, aod included in the territory of the

Na>.ii; bat we do not meet with its name in bis­

ter gold near the close of the Roman republic,

it appears as a town of importance. In n. 0.

ii M Asuauai, after his defeat at Mutina, with-

*■ lo Vada Sshata, intending to proceed into  
[aaialttDe Gaul; but this being opposed by his

tafa, at was compelled to recross the Apennines,

nit lie new of seizing on Pollentia; in which he

aw, Iwwerer, anticipated by Deciinua Brutus, who

at occupied the city with fire cohorts. (Cic. ad

'sa.zi.13L) Under the Roman Empire, Pollentia

> %:u>jotd by Pliny among the "nobilia oppida *'

tei adorned the tract of Liguria between the

If-.-jMs aod the Padus. (Plin. iii. 5. s. 7.) It

si cualerable manufactures of pottery, and the

as frvdaced in its territory enjoyed great reputa-

a. teriaf a natural dark colour. (1'lin. rib. 48.

*l uit. 12. a. 46; Sil. Ital. TiiL 597 ; Martial,  
% Ut.) It is incidentally mentioned as a muni-

at turn ander the reigu of Tiberius, having been

>nif paaubed by that emperor for a tumult that

arrrd is its furum. (Suet. Tib. 37.) But its

aw a chiefly noted in history as the scene of a

pat tattle fought between Stilicho and the Goths

AUric, in a. D. 403. The circumstances of

• telle are my imperfectly known to u». and

In treat u rariously related; for while Clau-

• mbratea it aa a glorious triumph, Orosius

*•"••» it as a dubious success, and Cassiodorus  
I J«ruodee boldly claim the victory for the

^ (Ckadian, B. Get 580—647; Prudent,

r^aoa, ii. 696—749: Oros. vii. 37; Prosper.

*■ f. ISO; Caasiod. Citron, p. 450; Jornand.

•' I Bat it teems certain that it was attended

I peat slaughter on both sides, and that it led

I wsttrary retreat of the Gothic king. No

■aam mention is found of it, and we have no

"* of the circumstances of its decay or de-

■ ■ name doea not reappear in the

•tea, and the modern Pollenza is a poor

i jQoilerable remains of the ancient city

be traced, though in a very decayed con-

include the traces of a theatre, an

a temple, and other buildings; and

ascriptions have also been discovered on the

L tea confirming the evidence of its ancient

ywcy aod importance. (Millin, Voyage en

■■*> dt. voL ii. p. 55.) The ruins are situated

from the modern town of Cheratco, but

k>* auk of the Tanaro.

I A taws of picrnam mentioned only by Pliny,

tbt " popali" of that region, enumerates

t'-'Y-u. whom be unites with the Lrbs Salvia

1 a«ta that steins to prove the two comniu-

nities to have been united into one. (Urbesalvia

Follentini, Plin. iii. 14. s. 18.) The Urbs Salvia,

now Urbisaglia, is well known; and the site of

Pollentia must be sought in its immediate neigh­

bourhood, llolstenius places it at Monte Melone,

on a hill on the left bank of the Chienti between

Maecrata and Tolentino, about 3 miles torn t'rfci-

tnglia on the opposite side of the valley. (Holstcn.

Not. ad Cluv. p. 138.) [E. 11. B.]

POLLE'NTIA. [Baleabes.]

POLLUSCA or POLUSCA (IloXoioKa: Eth.

no\WKa.v6i, Polluscinus: Caaal delta Alandria),

a city of Latium, which appears in the early history

of Rome inseparably connected with Longula and

Corioli. Thus, in b. c. 493, we find the three places

enumerated in succession as reduced by the arms of

Postumus Coininius; and again in B. c. 488 all

three were recovered by the Volscians under the

command of Coriolanus. (Liv. ii. 33, 39; Dionys.

vi. 91,viii. 36.) No subsequent mention of Pollusca

occurs, except that its name is found in Pliny,

among the cities of Latium of which all trace had

disappeared. (Plin. iii. 5. s. 9.) As its name is

there given among the places which had once shared

in the sacrifices on the Albun Mount, it is probable

that it was originally a Latin city, and had fallen

into the hands of the Volscians; whence it is

called, when first noticed in history, a Volscian city.

Livy. indeed, appears to regard Longula and Pollusca

as belonging to the Volsci Antiates, and therefore

at that time mere dependencies of Antium. The

position of Pollusca, as well as that of Longula, must

be in great measure matter of conjecture, but the

site suggested by Nibby, on a hill adjoining the

Osteria di Cicita, about 22 miles from Rome, on the

road to Porto of Anzo, has at least a plausible

claim to that distinction. The hill in question w hich

is included in the farm of the Casal delta Muwlria,

stands just at the bifurcation of the two roads that

lead to Porto d' Anzo and to Conca: il was noticed

by Sir YV. Gell as the probable site of an ancient

town, and suggested as one of those which might be

selected for Corioli: if we place the latter city at

Monte Ciore, the site more generally adopted,

Pollusca may very well have been at the Oateria di

Civita ; but the point is one which can never bo

determined with certainty. (Gell, Top of Rome,

p. 183; Nibbv, Dintorni, vol. i. p. 402; Abcken,

Mittel ItaBmf. 72.) [E. II. B.]

POLTYOBRIA. [Aenus.]

POLYAEGUS (noAuacvoj), a desert island in

the Aegaean sea, near Melos. (Ptol. iii. 15. § 28;

Plin. iv. 12. s. 23; Mela, ii. 7.) It is cither Poh/l>os,

or perhaps Antimelos with its wild goats. (Ross,

Reisen auf den Griech. Inteln, vol. iii. p. 26.)

POLYANTHES. [Amantia.]

POLYANUS (Ilo\oo»oi) a mountain in Epeirus

mentioned by Strain) (vii. p. 327) along with To-

inarus.

POLY'BOTL'S (rioAittoToj), a place in the west

of Phrygia Major, a little to the south-east of Syn-

nada, is mentioned only by Hierocles (p. 677) and

a few Byzantine writers (Procop. Hut. Are. 18;

Anna Comnen. p. 324; Concil. Nicaen. ii. p. 358),

who, however, do not give the name correctly, but call

it Polybatus or Polygotus. Col. Leake (Alia .1/in.

p. 53) identifies the site of Polybotus with the mo­

dern Bulwudun, which he regards as only a Turkish

corruption of the ancient name. [L. S.J

POLY'GIUM, a place on the south coast of Gallia

mentioned in the Ora Maritima of Avienus (v. 611):

t t 3

