IONIA. 6] IONIUM MAKE.

xiv. pp. 632T 665.) Towards the inland, or the

east, Ionia extendi-d only a few miles, the towns of

.Magnesia, Larissa, Tralles, Alabanda, and others,

not belonging to it. Ptolemy (v. 2) assigns much

narrower limits to Ionia than his predecessors, for,

according to him. it extended only from the Hermus

in LydU to the Maeander in Caria; so that Phocaca

and Miletus would not belong to Ionia. According

!•:> a generally received tradition, the Ionian colonies

(-it the went coast of Asia were founded after the

death of Counts, the last king of Attica, about is. c.

104*. or, according to others, as early as B.C. 1060,

about 60 years after the conquest of Peloponnesus

by tb«* Dorians. The eons of Codrus, Neleus and

And rod us, it is said, being dissatisfied with the

aii;Jition of royalty and the appointment of their

rke.-t brother Medon to the anhonship, emigrated,

w.ih large numbers of Attic lonians and bands from

other parts of Greece, into Asia Minor. (Strab. xiv.

p. 633. foil.; Paus. vii. 2.) Here, in one of the

most beautiful and fertile parts of the earth, they

founded a number of towns,—partly expelling and

jurtrc subduing the ancient inhabitants, who con­

sisted mainly of Macuirians, Carians, and Pelasgians.

(Herod. L 142; Paus. vii. 2; Pberecyd. Fragm. 26;

D**»ys. Per. 822, &c.) As a great many of the

original inhabitants remained in the country as sub-

;*vta of the conquerors, and as the latter had gone

to Asia a* warriors, without women, the new colonies

were not pure Greek; but still the subdued nations

*m? not «> completely different as to render an  
amalgamation into one nation impossible, or even

very difficult. This amalgamation with different

trib-s also accounts for the fact that four different

dialects were spoken by the lonians. (Herod. I. c.)

The towns founded by the lonians — which,

though independent of one another, yet formed a

kind of confederacy for common purposes—amounted

to twelve (6w3c*cc£irc/A>Js), a number which must not

tw regarded as accidental. These towns, of which

amounts are given in serrate articles, were: Pilo-

'"AF-A, EltlTHKAK, CLAZOMKMAE, TeOS, LKBKDOH,

Cotoraos, Ei'hesis, Pbienk, Myub, Miletus,

ami Samos and Chios in the neighbouring islands.

(Nmb. xiv. p. 633; Aelian, V.ff. viii. 5.) Subse­

quently, about B. c. 700, Smyrna, which until then

bad belonged to Aeolis, became by treachery a mem-

b*r ttf the Ionian confederacy, which henceforth con-

**ted of thirteen cities. (Herod, i. 149; Paus. vii.  
i: Sirab. Lc.} These Ionian colonies soon rose to

a ijitih degree of prosperity, and in many respects

l«t»iripped the mother-country; for poets, philoso-

jVn. historians, and artists flourished in the Ionian

ritiea long before the mother-country attained to any

eminence in these intellectual pursuits. AH the

cities of Ionia formed independent republics, with

'■* i-«rratiral constitutions; but their common affairs

^n; diseased at regular meetings held at Pamo-

tuuin (navuavtov), the common centre of all the

Ionian cities, on the northern slope of Mount My-

c*K near Priene, and about three stadia from the

***t. (Herod. L 141, 148; Strab. xiv. p. 639; Mela,  
i-17; Plin. v. 29.) These meetings at Panioniurn

•Ppear to have given rise to a permanent town, with

» PrrUneani, in which the meetings were held.

(Stejjo. B. «.c.) The political bond which held the

laoun cities together appears to have been rather

t**-*, and the principal objects of the meetings, at

few* in later times, were religious worship and the

^•bration of games. The cities continued to enjoy

Ueir increasing prosperity and their independence

until the establishment of the Lydian monarchy.

The attacks upon the Ionian colonies began even in

the reign of Gyges, so that one city after another was

conquered, until, in the reign of Croesus, all of them

became subject to the Lydians. When Lydia be­

came the prey of the Persian conqueror Cyrus, iu

b. c. 557, Ionia also was obliged to acknowledge the

supremacy of Persia; but the new rulers scarcely

interfered with the internal affairs of the cities and

their confederacy; all they had to do was to pay

tribute, to send their contingents to the Persian

armies, and to submit to satraps and tyrants, the

latter of whom were Greek usurpers who set them­

selves up in their native cities, and were backed by

the Persian monarchs. But the lonians, accustomed

to liberty, were unable to bear even this gentle yoke

for any length of time, and in b. c. 500 a general

insurrection broke out against Persia, in which tho

Athenians and Eretrians also took part. The re­

volt had been planned and organised by Histiaeus,

tyrant of Miletus, and Aristagoras, his son-in-law.

The lonians burned and destroyed Sardes, the resi­

dence of the Persian satraps, but were then routed

and defeated in a bloody battlo near Ephesus. In

B.O. 496 all the lonians were again reduced, and

compelled to assist the Persians with men and ships

in the war against Greece. In the battle of Mycale,

b. c. 479, the lonians deserted from the ranks of the

Persians and joined their kinsmen, and thus took

the first step to recover their independence, which

ten years later was fully secured by the battle on

the Eurymedon. They then entered into a relation

with the Athenians, who were to protect them against

any further aggression from the Persians; but in

consequence of this they became more or Jess de­

pendent upon their protectors. In the unfortunate

peace of Antalcidas, the lonians, with the other

Asiatic Greeks, were again made over to Persia,

B.C. 387; and when the Persian monarchy was de­

stroyed by Alexander, they became a part of tho

Macedonian empire, and finally fell into the hands of

the Komans. The highest prosperity of Ionia be­

longs to the period of the Lydian supremacy; under

the rule of Macedonia it somewhat recovered from its

previous sufferings. Under the Komans the Ionian

cities still retained their importance as commercial

places, and as seats of art and literature; but they

lost their political life, and sank down to the con­

dition of mere provincial towns. The last traces of

their prosperity were destroyed under the barbarous

rule of the Turks in the middle ages. During the

period of their greatest prosperity and independence,

the Ionian cities sent out numerous colonies to the

shores of the Black sea and to the western coasts

and islands of the Mediterranean. (Comp. Thirl-

wall, IJUt of Greece, vol. ii. chap. 12, pp. 94, 115,

120, &c; Grote, Hist, of Greece, vol. ii. pp.229—

253.) [L. S.]

ICNIUM MAKE (Toiw ve\ayos, Ptol.), was

the name given by geographers to the sea which

bathed the western shores of Greece, and separated

them from those of Sicily and Southern Italy. The

appellation would seem to date from a very early

period, when the lonians still inhabited the shores of

the Corinthian gulf, and the part of the Pelopouness

subsequently known as Achaia; but we have no evi­

dence of its employment in early times. The legends

invented by later writers, which derived it from a

hero of the name of Ionius or Ion, or from the wan­

derings of Io(Aesch. Pronu 840; Tzetz.arf Lycophr.

Alex, 630; Steph. B. *. v.; Eustath. ad Div/iys.

