VENETIA. VENETIA. 1273

Ike siege of Troy, and there founded the city of

l'sttvium. (Liv. L I; Virg. Am. i. 242; Serv.

ad loc.) This legend, bo generally adapted by the

Itumans end later Greeks, seems to have been cur­

rent as early as the time of Sophocles. (Strab. xiii.

p. 608.) Some writers, however, omitted all men­

tion of Anterior, and merely represented tlie tribe of

the Ueneti, after baring lost their leader Pylaemenes

in the Trojan War, as wandering through Thrace

to the head of the Adriatic, where they ultimately

ettablished themselves. (Id. xii. p. 543; Scymn.

Ch. 389.) Whether there be any foundation for

this story or not, it is evident that it throws no

light upon the national affinities of the Italian Ve-

Dcti. The other two tribes of the same name would

iwm to lead our conjectures in two different direc­

tions. From the occurrence of a tribe of Veneti

timing the Transalpine Gauls, just as we find among

that people a tribe of Cenomani and of Senones, cor-

rnponding to the two tribes of that name on the

Italian side of the Alps, it would seem a very

natural inference that the Veneti also were a Gaul-

Ui ran, who had migrated from beyond the Alps.

To this must be oppoeed the fact that, while a

distinct historical tradition of the successive migra­

tions of the Gaulish tribes in the N. of Italy has

been preserved and transmitted to ns (Liv. v. 34,

35). no trace is recorded of a similar migration of

the Veneti; but, on the contrary, that people is uni­

formly distinguished from the Gauls: Livy expressly

ipeaks of them as occupying the same tract which

they did in his time not only before the first Gaulish

migration, but before the plains of Northern Italy

■mi occupied by the Etruscans (lb. 33); and Poly­

pus emphatically, though briefly, describes them as

> different people from the Gauls their neighbours,

in-t ruing a different language, thouch resembling:

hem much in their manners and habits (ii. 17).

*trabo also speaks of them as a distinct people  
•" n the Gauls, though he tells us that one ac-

■■unt of their origin derived them from the Gaulish

*ople of the same name that dwelt on the shores of  
be ocean. (Strab. iv. p. 195, v. p. 212.) But

here is certainly no ground for rejecting the distinct

utemenl of I'olybius, and we may safely acquiesce

i the conclusion that they were nut of Celtic or

mulish origin.

On the other hand the existence of a tribe or

rople on tlie southern shores of the Baltic, who weie

nown to the Romans (through their German neigh-

|<U!>) as Venedi or Veneti, a name evidently iden-

-«l «ith that of the Wenden or Wends, by which  
k Slavonian race in general is still known to the

••nr.ana, would lead us to regard the Italian Veneti

<o aa probably a Slavonian tribe : and this seems

i tlie whole the most plausible hypothesis. There

nothing improbable in the circumstance that the

avooiaiu may at an early period have extended

leir migrations as far as the head of the Adriatic,

■ 1 left there a detached branch or offshoot of their

ain stuck. The commercial intercourse of the

meti with the shores of the Baltic, a traffic which

o find already established at a very early period,

ay be the more readily explained if we suppose it

!tare been carried on by tribes of the same origin,

rndotus indeed represents the Veneti as an lllyrian

bo (i. 196, v. 9); but it seems probable that the

roe of lilyrians was applied in a vague sense to all

r mountaineers that occupied the eastern coasts of

• Adriatic, and some of these may in ancient times

re been of Slavonian origin, though the true

lilyrians (the ancestors of the present Albanians)

were undoubtedly a distinct people.

Of the history of the Veneti as an independent

people we know almost nothing ; but what little we

do learn indicates a marked difference between them

and their neighbours the Gauls on one side, and the

Liburnians and lilyrians on the other. They appear

to have been a commercial, rather than a warlike,

people : and from the very earliest dawn of history

carried on a trade in amber, which was brought over­

land from the shores of the Baltic, and exchanged

by them with Phoenician and Greek merchants.

Hence arose the fables which ascribed the production

of that substance to the land of the Veneti, and ul­

timately led to the identification of the Eridanus of

Northern Europe with the Pad us of Northern Italy.

[Ekidaxus.] Herodotus mentions a peculiar custom

as existing among the Veneti in his day, that they

sold their daughters by auction to the highest

bidder, aa a mode of disposing of them in marriage

(i. 196). We learn also that they habitually wore

black garments, a taste which may be said to be re­

tained by the Venetians down to the present day,

but waa connected by the poets and mythographera

with the fables concerning the fall of Phaeton.

(Scymn. Ch. 396.) Another circumstance for which

they were distinguished was the excellence of their

horses, and the care they bestowed on breeding and

training them, a fait which was appealed to by

many as a proof of their descent from Antenor and

"the horsetraining Trojans." (Strab. v. pp. 212,215.)

It is clear that they were a people considerably more

advanced in civilisation than either the Gauls or the

Ligurians, and the account given by Livy (x. 2) of

the landing of Clermymus in the territory of Pata-

rium (b.c.302) proves that at that period Patariura

at least was a powerful and well organised city.

Livy indeed expressly contrasts the Veneti with the

lilyrians, Liburnians, and Istrians, "genles ferae et

magna ex parte latrociniis maritiniia infantes." (Ib.)

On this occasion we are told that the citizens of

Patarium were kept in continual alarm on account

of their Gaulish neighbours, with whom they seem

to liare been generally on unfriendly terms. Thus

at a still earlier period we are informed by Polybius

that the retreat of the Srnonian Gauls, who had

taken the city of Rome, was caused by an irrup­

tion of the Venetians into the Gaulish territory

(ii. 18). It was doubtless this state of hostility that

induced them, as soon aa the Roman anus began to

make themselves felt in Northern Italy, to conclude

an Alliance with Rome against the Gauls (b.c. 215),

to which they appear to have subsequently adhered

with unshaken fidelity. (Pnlyh. ii. 23, 24.) Hence

while we afterward* find the Romans gradually car­

rying their arms beyond the Veneti. and engaged in

frequent Inutilities with the Carni and Istrians on

the extreme \erpe of Italy, no trace is found of any

collision with the Venetians. Nor liave w e any account

of the steps by which the latter passed from the

condition of independent allies to that of subjects of

the Roman Republic. But it is probable that the

process was a gradual one. and grew out of the mere

necessity of the case, when the Romans had con­

quered Istria and the land of the Carni, in which

last they had established, in B.C. 181, the powerful

colony of Aquilcia. It is certain that before the

close of the Republic the Veneti had Kased to hare

any independent existence, and were comprised, like

the Gaulish tribes, in the province of Gallia Cisalpina,

which was placed under the authority of Caesar, B. c

