SUMATIA. 1047 SUN1UM.

ahno" (Ovid, Fait. ir. 81, Triit. iv. 10.3, Amor,

i 16: SiL Ital. riii. 511.) Its territory «.•« fertile,

v.3 in com and wine, undone district of it, the Pagas

filauua, u particularly mentioned by Pliny (xvii.

!i s. 43) f r the care bestowed on the irrigation of

'j» vineyards.

Ilie remains of the ancient city are of little in­

law: as ruins, bat indicate the existence of a con-

Lgtrxble town ; among them are the vestiges of an

- : ■ totre. a theatre, and thermae, all of them

• *i.iot the gates of the modern city. About 2

Iran thence, at the foot of the Monte Morrow,

Aiome ruins of reticulated masonry, probably those

I • Roman rills, which has been called, without the

4;Mest reason or authority, that of Ovid. (Roma-

ali.nL ii>. pp. 139, 161; Craven's Abruczi, vol.

..p. a.)

NUme was distant seven miles from Corfinium, as

t Irani both from the Tabula and from Caesar.

Cars. B. C. i. 18; Tab. Peut.) Ovid tells us that

i vm 90 miles from Home (Triit. iv. 10. 4), a

tairment evidently meant to be precise. The actual

.met by the highroad would he 94 miles; via.

'0 to Cenennia, 17 from thence to Corfinium, and 7

mi Corfinium to Sulrao. (D'Anville. JW. Geogr.

a lllalm, pp. 175,179.) There was, however, pro-

a*iy a branch road to Sulmo. after passing the Mnns

brr.i. avoiding the detour by Corfinium. [E. H. 8.]

HA 11A (S.M-uaTio. Paus. viii. 3. § 4; Steph.

5.1 r.; SoOTiaria. Pans. viii. 36. § 7: Sovitarnnv,

hw. viii. 27. § 3; 2oo/itjTf m, Stepb. B. i. ".), a

■n of Arcadia in the district Macnalia, on the

•aunern slope of Mt. Maenalus. It was probably

a the somniit of the hill now called Sylimna, where

aw* are some remains of polygonal walls, (l^ake,

vVm, voL it p. 51; Koss, Peloponnei. p. 120.)

HMMON'TORIUM, a place in Vindelicia {It.

lal p. 277), where, according to the Notitia Im­

am, the commander of the 3rd legion was stationed.

» rurt site is uncertain. (I.. S.J

SUMMUS PYRENAEUS. One of the passes of

c* name mentioned in the Antonine Itin. and the

fibls was on the road from Narbo (A'aroonne) to

^rxsria (Junqvera) in Spain. The road passed from

>•■•> through Ad Centuriones and Ad Stabulum;

at the distances in the Itins. are not correct; nor is

mi distance in the Itin. correct from Summus Pyre-

m to Juncaria. The pass, however, is well

urked; and it is the Col de Pertui, which is com-

aunicd by the fort of BtUtgardt. This is the rood

J »hich Hannibal entered Gallia, and the ltoman

naies marched from (jalUa into Spain. A second

a* named Summus Pyrenaeusin the Antonine Itin.

won the road from Beneharnum [Bkxeiiar.ni.m]

■ Aqaitania to Caesaraugusta (Saragosa) in Spain.

If road went through Iluro (OUron) and Ah pa

<ra [Aspa Litca] and Forum Ligneuin [Fobum

Jttsara], which is 5 from Summus Pyrenaeas.

hu road follows the Gave dAipe from Oltrron;

«i on reaching the head of the valley there are two

ads, one to the right and the other to the left.

>• ••> the right called Port de Bernere must be

• iJd road, because it leads into the valley of

"J^aei and to Beilo in Spain, which is the

wiinnm of the Itin. on the road from Summus

ir-naroa to Saragoia.

There is a third pass the most western of all also

ttned Sanmina Pyrcnaeua on the road from Aquae

srWhcae (iMx) in A qui tan ia to Pompelon (Pain-

foao) in Spaio. The Summus Pyrenaeus is the

<mmet de CatteUPinon, from which we descend

into the valley of Jtoncesvallei on the road to Pam.

plona [bus Fyresakus]. (D'Anville, Notice,

[G.L.]

SUN A [Aborigines.]

SU'NICI. Tacitus (Hut. iv. 66) mentions the

Sunici in the history of the war with Civilis. Ci-

vilis having made an alliance with the Agrippinenses

(Cob*) resolved to try to gain over the nearest

people to Coin, and ho first secured the Sunici.

Claudius Labco opposed him with a force hastily

raised U&oag the Betasii, Tungri and Nervii, and lie

was confident in his position by having possession of

the bridge over the Mosa. [Pons AIosae]. No

certain conclusion as to the position of the Sunici

can Ihj derived from this; but perhaps they were

between Coin and the Mans. Pliny (iv. 17) men­

tions the Sunici between the Tungri and the Fiuifr*

bones. [G. L.]

SU'NIUM ("Xovviov. Eth. TLouvtfut), the name ot

a promontory and demus on the southern coast of

Attica. The promontory, which forms the most

southerly p in! in the country, rises almost perpen­

dicularly from the sea to a great height, and was

crowned with a temple of Athena, the tutelary

goddess of Attica. (Paus. i. 1. i 1 ; lovvtow ,

Horn. Od. iii. 278 ; Soph. Ajax, 1235; Kurip. Cycl.

292; Vitruv. ir. 7). Sunium was fortified in the

nineteenth year of the Peloponnesian War (n.c 413)

for the purpose of protecting the passage of the corn-

ships to Athens (Thuc, viii. 4), and was regarded

from that time as one of the principal fortreses of

Attica (Comp. Dem. pro Cor. p. 238; Lit. xxxi.

25; Scylsx, p. 21.) Its proximity to the silver

mines of Lanrium probably contributed to its pros­

perity, which passed into a proverb (Anaxand. aj>.

At/ten. vi. p. 263, c.) ; but even in the time ti

Cicerc it had sunk into decay (ad AtL xiii. 10). The

circuit of the walls may still be traced, except where

the precipitous nature of the rocks afforded a natural

defence. The walls which are fortified with square

towers, are of the most regular Hellenic masonry,

and enclose a space of a little more than half a mile in

circumference. The southern part of Attica, ex­

tending northwards from the promontory of Sunium

as far as Thoricus on .the east, and Anaphlystus on

the west, is called by Herodotus the Sumac anple

(rbv yovvhy rip 2ovyiaK6vt iv. 99). Though

Sunium was especially sacred to Athena, we tarn

from Aristophanes (JSaniL 557, Ave*, 869) that

Poseidon was also worshipped there.

The promontory of Sunium is now called Cope

Kolonnes, from the ruins of the temple of Athena

which still crown its summit. Leake observes tliwt

"the temple was a l>oric hexastyle; but none of

the columns of the fronts remain. The original

number of those in the flanks is uncertain; hut

thero are still standing nine columns of the southern,

and three of the northern side, with their archi­

traves, together with the two columns and on- of

the antae of the prouaus, also hearing their archi­

traves. The columns of the peristyle were 3 feet

4 inches in diameter at the base, and 2 feet 7 inches

under the capital, with an infcrcolumniatiou below

of 4 feet 11 inches. The height, including the

capital, was 19 feet 3 inches. The exposed situa­

tion of the building baa caused a great corrosion in

the surface of the marble, which was probably

brought from the neighbouring mountains; for it is

less homogeneous, and of a coarser grain, than the

marble of Pentele. The walls of the fortress were

laced with the some kind of stone. The ■

3x4

