SAGALASSUS. SAGRUS. 873

SAGALASSCS (2o7oXa<r«r<t: Eth. Zaya-

2a-)oAa^oijK)s). an important town

near Uie north-western frontier of

I'ju.iu, or, as Strabo (xii. p. 569) less correctly

>U <9, of Isauria, wliile Ptolemy (v. 3. § 6) erro-

r-4iMlj mentions it among the towns of Lycia.

C"-nB. Steph. 11. ». *.) Alexander the Great

-4 the tuwo by assault, having previously defeated  
a brave Pisalian inhabitants, who met the aggressor

r*»n np on a hill outside their town. (Arrian,

Lao*, i. SS.) Livy (xxxviii. 1J), in his account of

*■ rxprdition of Cn. Manlius, describes Sagalassus

• *.tuxlnl in a fertile plain, abounding in every

of produce; he likewise characterises its in-

ilaas the bravest of the Pisidians, and the

m itatlf as most strongly fortified. Manlius did

• take it, but by ravaging its territory com-

ijr.1 the Sagalassians to come to terms, to pay

oauribution of 50 talents, 20,000 medimni of

irrtu and the same quantity of barley. Strabo

atn tint it was one of the chief to*Da of Pisidia,

•~ lint after passing under the dominion of Atnyn-

s, fttrarch of Lycaonia and Galatia, it became

/ [lie Roman province. He adds that it was

>ne day's march from Apainea, whereas we

tra from Arrian that Alexander was five days on

» road between the two towns ; but the detention

tie- latter was not occasioned by the length of the

at bat by other circumstances, so that Strabo's

awut ia not opposed to that of Arrian. (Comp.

*»». nil. 19; Plin. v. 24.) The town is men­  
us! sUn by Hierocles (p. 693), in the Ecclesi-

taral Notice*, and the Acts of Councils, from which

•;-peara to have been an episcopal see.

The traveller I.ucas (Trois i'oyagei, i. p. 181,

I ,W Voyage, i. c. 34) was the first that re-

'»! the existence of extensive ruins at a place

Agltuotm, and the resemblance of the name

tiTi to identify these ruins with the site of the

r-i: Sai;ala»us. This conjecture has since been

it < a.-inoeJ by Arundell (A Vuit to tie Seven

mrcmet, p. 132, foil.), who describes these ruins

Miffed an the long terrace of a lofty mountain,

V aSure tlie village of AyUuoun, and consisting

it ,4 massy walls, heaps of sculptured stones,

e numerable sepulchral vaults in the almost

p»i>i>i-uLir side of the mountain. A little lower

i lix terrace are considerable remains of a large

aLcc, and a large paved oblong area, full of

ei v Jumrw. pedestal*, &c, about 240 feet long;

artaco nearly 300 feet long and 27 wide; and be-

l llui bow magnificent remains either of a

fir or a gymnasium. Above these rises a steep

• ilk a lew remains on the top, which was pro-

\f Ua* acr.-polls. There is also a large theatre

i torn state of preservation. Inscriptions with

»jrd» laryaXaoatuv t6Kii leave no doubt

l> these noble ruins belonging to tlio ancient

t V Sagala&sus. (Comp. liainilton, Besearchet,

l p. 4*6, foil.; Fellows, Asia Minor, p. 164,

) [L (A]

AGAXUS (Sayavdt, Marcian, PeripL p. 21., ed.

kali), a small river on the coast of Carmania,

[i &M> atsxiia from Harmuza. It is mentioned

try Ptolemy (vi. 8. § 4), and Pliny (vi. 25). It

-..'iiUy lite saxne stream which is called by Am­  
ies MarreUinas, Sagauis (xxiii. 6). Vincent

»• tiavt it may be represented by a small river

a Duera into the Perttan Gulf, near Uomeroon.

f. *f Xemmkmi, rol. i. p. 370). [V.]

lUA'P<-*x.A QXerfd-woAa ul. SayairoAa opot,

Ptol. it. 6. §§ 8,14,16,17), a mountain of Interior

Libya, from which flows the Subiis, the position of

which is fixed by Ptolemy (I. c.) 13° E. long., 22°

N. lut. It may be assumed that the divergent

which Ptolemy describes as ascending to this moun­

tain from the Nigeir is one of the tributaries which

flow into the Djoliba or Quorra, from the high­

lands to the N. of that river (comp. Journ, Geog.

Soc. vol. ii. p. 13.) [E. B. J.]

8AGARAUCAE. [Sacahauu.]

SAGAUIS, a river of European Sarm.it ki (Ov.

ex Pont. iv. 1047), which has been assumed, from

the name, to have discharged itself into the Suius

Sagarils. (Plin. iv. 26.) [E. B. J.]

SAGA'RTH. [Pkrsis.]

SAG1DA (ii-yita or layijSo, PtoLvii. l.§ 71),

a metropolis of Central India, which is perhaps the

I same as the present Sohajpur, near the sources of

the river Sonne [V.]

SACK AS (4 Zdypas, Strab. vi. p. 261), a river of

Bruttium, on the K. coast of the peninsula, to the

S. of Caulonia, between that city and I.ocri. It is

celebrated in history for the great battle fought on

its banks, in which an army of 130,000 Crotoniats

is said to have been totally defeated by 10,000 Ib­

erians: an event regarded as so extraordinary that

it |*ssed into a kind of proverb for something that

appeared incredible, though true. (aAnOfiTf/jci T»»

•VI Za>a, Suid. t.v.; Strab. vi. p. 261; Cir. tie Ar.

D. iii. 5; Justin, xx. 3; Plin. iii. 10. s. 15.) The

victory was ascribed by the Locrians to the direct

intervention of the Dioscuri, to whom they in con­

sequence erected altars on the banks of the river,

which were apparently still extant in the time of

Strabo. It was added that the news of the victory

was miraculously conveyed to the Greeks assembled

at Olympia the same day that the battle wus fought.

(Strab. /. c.; Cic de N. I), ii. 2.) But notwith­

standing the celebrity thus attached to it, the date

and occasion of the battle are very uncertain: and

the circumstances connected with it by Strabo and

Justin would lead to opposite conclusions. [Ctto-

tona.] The date assigned by Hcyne is B c. 560,

while Strabo certainly seems to imply that it took

place after the fall of Sybaris in n. c. 510. (Grotc's

Greece, vol. iv. p. 552, note.) But whatever un­

certainty prevailed concerning the battle, it seems

certain that the Sagras itself wus a well known

stream in the days of Strabo and Pliny; both of

whom concur in placing it to the N. of Locri and S.

of Caulonia, and as the latter city was a colony and

perhaps a dependency of Crotona, it is probable that

the battle would be fought between it and LncrL

Unfortunately the site of Caulonia cannot be de­

termined [Caulonia], and we are therefore quite

at a loss which of the small streams flowing into the

sea between Locri and the Pwita di Stilo should bo

identified with the celebrated Sagras. The Alaro

has been generally fixed upon by local writers, but

has really no better claim than any other. (Iio-

manelli, vol. i. p. 161; Swinburne's Tractlt, vol. i.

p. 340.). [E. H. B ]

SAGKUS (Safffot : Sangro), one of the most

considerable of the rivers of Sauinium, which has its

sources in the lofty group of the Apennines S. of the

iMgo di Facino, and lias a course of above 70 miles

from thence to the Adriatic. It flows at first in a

SE. direction, passes under the walls of AufiJena as

well as of the modern CatUl di Sangro, and in this

part of its course flows through a broad and level,

but upland valley, bounded on both sides by lofty

