402 NACP ACTUS. NAUCRATIS.

into any other port or month of the Nile, they were

compelled either to sail round to Naucratis, or to

transmit their cargoes thither in the country boats.

Besides these commercial privileges, the Greeks of

Nancratis received from Amasis many civil and

religious immunities. They appointed their own

magistrates and officers for the regulation of their

trade, customs, and harbour dues, and were per­

mitted the free exercise of their religious worship.

Besides its docks, wharves, and other features of an

Hellenic city, Naucratis,' contained four celebrated

temples:—(1) That of Zeus, founded by colonists

from Aegina; (2) of Hera, built by tho Samians

in honour of their tutelary goddess; (3) of

Apollo, erected liy the Milesians; and (4) the most

ancient and sumptuous of them all, the federal

temple entitled the Hellenium, which was the com­

mon property of the Ionians of Chios, Teos, l'ho-

caea. and Clazomenae; of the Dorians of Rhodes,

Cnidns, and Halicarnassus;and of the Aetolians of

Mrtilene. They also observed the Dionysiac fes­

tivals; and were, according to Athenaeus (xiii. p. 596,

xv. p. 676), devout worshippers of Aphrodite.

The two principal manufactures of Naucratis

were that of porcelain and wreathes of flowers. The

former received from the silicious matter abounding

in the earth of the neighbourhood a high glaze; and

tho potteries were important enough to give names

to the l'otter's Gate and the Potter's Street, where

such wares were exposed for sale. (Id. xi. p. 480.)

The garlands were, according to Athenaeus

(xv. p. 671, seq.), made of myrtle, or, as was some­

times said, of flowers entwined with the filaments

of the papyrus. Either these garlands must have

been artificial, or the makers of them possessed some

secret for preserving the natural flowers, since they

were exported to Italy, and held in high esteem by

the Roman ladies. (Boettichcr, Sabaut, vol. i. pp.

228, seq.) Athenaeus gives a particular account

(iv. pp. 150, seq.) of the Prytaneian dinners of

the Naucratites. as well as of their general disposi­

tion to luxurious living. Some of their feasts appear

to have been of the kind called "ci/iSoKa,"

where the city provided a banqueting-room and

wine, hut the guests brought their provisions.

At wedding entertainments it was forbidden to

introduce cither eggs or pastry sweetened with honey.

Naucratis was the birthplace of Athenaeus (iii.

p. 73, vii. p. 301); of Julius Pollux, the an­

tiquary and grammarian; and of certain obscure

historians, cited by Athcnacns, e. g. Lyceas, Phylar-

chus, Psychannus, Herostratus, &c Heliodorus

(Aethuip. vi. p. 229) absurdly says that Aristo­

phanes, the comic poet, was born there. Naucratis,

however, was the native city of a person mnch mure

conspicuous in his day than any of the above men­

tioned, viz., of Cleomcncs, commissioner-general of

finances to Alexander the Great, after his conquest

of Aiyypt. But neither the city nor Aegypt in

general had much reason to be proud of him; for he

was equally oppressive and dishonest in his admi­

nistration; and having excited in the Delta a

general feeling of discontent against the Macedonians,

he was put to death by Ptnlomy Lagus. (Arrian,

Ejrj>. Alex. iii. 5, vii. 23; Diodor. xviii. 14; Pseud.

Aristot. Oeconom. ii. 34. s. 40.)

Herodotus probably landed at Nancratis, on his

entrance into Aegypt; but he did not remain there.

It was, however, for somo time the residence of the

legislator Solon, who there exchanged his Attic oil

and honey for Aegyptian millet; and is said to hare

taken sundry hints for his code of laws from tbt

statutes of the Pharaohs. (Plutarch, Solum, 26.)

Naucratis, like so many others of the Drliaie

cities, began to decline after the foundation of Alex-

andreia. Situated nearly 30 miles from the sea, it

could 'not compete with the most extensive sad

commodious haven then in the world; and with lbs

Macedonian invasion its monopoly of the Mediter­

ranean traffic ceased. Its exact site is unknown,

but is supposed to correspond nearly with that of

the modern hamlet of Salhadtchar, where conaklrr-

able heaps of ruin are extant. (Niebohr, Triads

in Arabia, p. 97.) The coins of Nancratia are of

the age of Trajan, and represent on their obverse s

laureated head of the emperor, and on their reverse

the figure of Anubis, or a female holding a spear.

(Rasche, Laic R. Kumar, t. r.) [W. B. D]

NAVILUBIO (1'lin. iv. 20. s. 34; NatwA-

Xoovtttvos worajiov cfcfoAoi, PtnL ii. 6, § 4), a

river on the N. coast of Hispania Tarnoanensia,

now A'aria.

NAU'LOCHUS, an island, or rather reef, off tat

Sammonian promontory, in Crete (Plin. iv. 12). the

same as the Naimachos of Pomponius Mela (ii, 7.

§13; Hock, Krela, vol. i. p. 439.) [K. B. J.J

NAU'LOCHUS or NAU'LOCHA (NaiA^a,

Appian), a place on the N. coast of Sicily, betweea

Mylae and Cape Pelorus. It is known only freta

the great sea-fight in which Sextos Pompcius via

defeated by Agrippa, B. c. 36, aral which was fmrts

between Mylae and Naulochus. (Suet. Amg. 16,

Appian, B. C. v. 116—122.) [MruaK.] Porr-

peius himself during the battle had been fneamred

with his land forces at Naulochus (Appian L e. 121),

and after his victory, Octavian, in his turn, took u»

his station there, while Agrippa and Lepidas ad­

vanced to attack Messana. (lb. 122.) It it dear

from its name that Nauiochos was a place when

there was a good roadstead or anchorage fur flip­

ping; but it is probable that there was no tows «f

the name, though Silius Italicus includes it in hit

list of Sicilian cities. (Sil. Ital. xiv. 264.) from

the description in Appian it is clear that it was

situated between Mylae and Cape Ratocidmo (tbt

Phalacrian Promontory of Ptolemy), and probably

not very far from the latter point; but there it

nothing to fix its site more definitely. [E. H_ B.]

NAU'LOCHUS (NoiiAoxoi), a small port on tie

coast of Thrace, belonging to 3Icaembria. called by

Pliny Tetranaulochua. (Strab. vii. p. 319, is. p- 44U;

Plin.iv. 11. s. 18.)

NAUMACHOS. [NAcxocnra, No. I.]

NAUPACTUS (Noir»o«Tor: Etk. NovaaWnn:

Ppakto by the Greek peasants, Lrponlo by tat

Italians), an important town of the Locri Owbe.

and the best harbour on toe northern coast of t^#

Corinthian gulf, was situated just within the euti ai«.»

of this gulf, a little east of the promontory Aiar-

rhium. It is said to have derived its name from the

Heracleidae having here built the fleet with which

they crossed over to Peloponnesus. (Strab. ix.

p. 426; Pans. x. 38. § 10; Apollod. ii. 8. $ t.)

Though Naupactus was indebted for its historical

importance to its harbour at tbt entrance of th»

Corinthian gulf, it was probably originally ebon*

as a site for a city on account of its strong till,

fertile plains, and copious supply of running water.

(Leake, A'ortAern 6'reeee, vol. ii. p. 606.) After

the Persian wars it fell into the power of tie Athe­

nians, who settled there the Metseuiana, who had brrm

compelled to leave their country at the and «*? law

