ROMA. ROMA. 739-

tarb hint; outride of that gate, to the E. of the

:t* of Astoaimu. It contained 10 Vici, and

>** its principal objects were, the temple of

m, tbt arch of Droso>. and the sepulchre of the

Regio //.. or Caelimumtana, lay to the

rf this and comprehended the whole extent of the

Eoaa hill. It had 7 Vici, and among its monu-

t!« nay be mentioned the A reus Dolabellac and

■ sqacdoct of Nero. Regio III., called I sis and

vpu, Lay to the N. of the Caelimontana, and

arieei the ralley of the Colosseum, and that

iW« portion of the Esquiline anciently known

M<a» Oppu*. H comprehended 12 Vici, and its

r-.jaJ objects were the baths of Titus and the

run amphitheatre or Colosseum. Regio IV.,

«I Tempimm Pacts and Sacra Via, was situated

W W. at* that of Isis and Serspis, and compre-

- : the Vehan ridge and the greater part of the  
re heflu the Palatine, Escjniline, Viminal,

<£xmaai, to the exclusion, however, of that

'to portion which lay immediately under the

itutac. Vet it embraced the buildings on the

fife of* the forum, including the temple of

•--». thr Basilica Paulli, and the Area Vul-

l Its east em boundary ran close to the Colos-

n, tone* is incladed the Colossus and the Meta

Km. both which objects stood very near that build-

la principal monuments, besides those already

tj2*vL, were the temple of Venus and Rome,

u» baulica of Cons tan tine. It embraced the

urn, the gieatei portion of the Sacra Via, and

F«vd Tran&itorium, and contained 8 Vici.

a r_ or /.-,■-. , -w/". included the northern por-

•f Inst Evjuiline (Mons Cispius) and tlie Vi-

l he>ain a east tract of suburbs lying to the

sf the Servian walls and agger. Thus it ex-

H w tar as to embrace the Amphitheatrnm

Bsa, which adjoins the modern clmrch of S.

m Oermsaiemme. and the so-called temple of

W Heilica, near the Porta Maggiore. It had

sad anxjng its remaining principal objects

It* gardens «>f Maecenas, the arch of Gallienus,

ca NyTT phaenim of Alexander Severus. Regio

eai'rd Alta Semita, embraced the Quirinal, and

tM to the E. so as to include the Praetorian

l It had 17 Vici, and its chief objects were

sstaa mf Diocletian, the house and gardens of

at. and the ancient Capitol. Regio VII., or

LsCmx vas bounded on the E. by the Quirinal,

» X. wf the Pincian, on the S. by the Servian

sriai the Quirinal and Capitoline, and on the

J tea road called Via Lata till it joined the Via

■ i ■ point which cannot be accurately asoer-

t The Yis Lata was the southern portion of

ksoera Cormo, and probably extended to the N.

* a* *ar aa the Antonine column. The Region  
ntanaad 15 Vici. Being without the Servian

aart af this district was anciently a burying

wad the tomb of Bi bolus is still extant.

I V111^ or forum Roman urn Magnum, was

'rW Mat important and populous in Koine,

•carat bnun obtained the name of " Magnuin"

ta* vaAixnr of tliat of Caesar. (Dion Cass.

'il i This Kepi mi, which formed the central

of aS the rest, embraced not only the ancient

«-xrept Use baaldings cn its N. side, but also

prrsaj fersw tbe Capitoline hill, and the valley

•a it aad the Palatine as far as the Velabrum.

tevd 34 Wi, among which were the densely

k**J ones Japan us And Tascus. The monu-

3 tits* district are so numerous and well

known that it is unnecessary to specify them.

Regio IX, called Circus Flamimus, comprehended

the district lying between the Via Lata on the K.,

the Tiber on the W., the Capitoline hill and Servian

wall on the S.; whilst on the N. it seems to have

extended as far as the present Piazza Navona and

Piazza Colonna. It contained 35 Vici, and among

its objects of interest may be named the circus from

which it derived its name, the three theatres of

liulbus, Pompey, and Marcel I us, the Pantheon, und

many other celebrated monuments. The Campus

Marti us, or northern jart of the urea between

tbe hills and the Tiber, was not comprehended in.

any of the 14 Regions. Regio X., or Palatiuui,

consisted of the Palatine hill and its declivities. It

hud 20 Vici. Its boundaries are so well marked

that we need not mention its numerous and well-

known monuments till we come to describe its

topography. Regio XI., or Circus Maximus, de­

rived its name from the circus, which occupied the

greater part of it. It comprehended the vall*y be­

tween the Palatine and Avcntine, and also appa­

rel illy the northern declivities of the hitter hill, us

far as the Porta Trigeminy On the N., where it

met the Region of the Forum Romanum, it seems to

have included tbe Velabrum. It contained ID Vici

according to tbe Notitia, 21 according to the Curio-

sum, Regio XII,, called Piscina Publico, was

bounded on the \V. by the Avcntine, on the N. by

the Caelian, on the E. by Regio I. or Porta Capena,

and on the S. it probably extended to the line of tho

Aurelian walls. It had 17 Vici, and its most re­

markable monument was the baths of Caracalla.

Regio XIII,, or Aventinus, included that hill and.

the adjoining banks of the Tiber. It had 17 Vici

according to t\\? Xotitia, 18 according to the Curio-

sum. Regio XIV., Transtiberina, or Transtibtriiit,

comprehended all the suburb on the W., or light

bunk of the Tiber, including the Vatican, the Jm.i-

culuin. with the dUtrict between them and the river,

and the Insula Tiberina. This, therefore, was by

far the largest of all the Regions, and contained 7b"

Vici.

Municipal Regulations of Augustus.—All these

Regions were under the control of magistrates chosen

annually by lot. (Suet. Aug. 30.) The govern­

ment of the Regions was not corporative, liko that

of the Vici, but administrative; and one or more

Regions seem to have been intrusted to a single

magistrate chosen among the aediles, tribunes, or

praetors. (Preller, Rcgionen, p. 77.) The su­

preme administration, however, was vested in the

Pracfeetus Uibi. At a later period other officers

were interposed between the praefect and these

governors. Thus the lias is Capilolinn mentions a

Curator and Denunciator in each Region, Subse­

quently, however, the latter office seems to have

been aUjli.-shed, and the Xotitia and Curiosuw men­

tion two curators in each Region. There were also

subordinate officers, such as praecones or criers, and

a number of imperial slaves, or HU'itini, were ap­

pointed to transact any necessary business concerning

the Regions. (Preller, p. 79.)

One of the chief objects of Augustus in esta­

blishing these Regions seems to have been con­

nected with a reform of the city police. For this

purpose he established 7 Cohortes Vigilum, whose

stations were so disposed that each cohort might be

available for two Regions. Each was under the

command of a tribune, and the whole was superin­

tended by a Pracfectus Vigilum. (Suet. Aug. 30;

