1010

SIPH.

and the Jehusite city afterwards; Josephus repre­

sents him as taking the lower city first, and after­

wards the citadel. There can be no doubt, therefore,

that in Josephus's view, Sum was the lower city,

and the Jehusite city the citadel;" for a comparison

of the 7th with the 9th verse in 2 S<im. v., and of

the 5th with the 7th verse in 1 Chron. xi. can leave

no doubt that the intermediate verses in both pas­

sages relate to the particulars of occupation of Sion,

which particulars are narrated by Josephus of the

occupation of the upper city, here called by him by

the identical name used by the SAC rod writer, of the

•* castle in which David dwelt; therefore they called

it the city of David; " and thisQpovpiov of Josephus

is admitted by Mr. Thrupp to be the upper city (p.

56, note 2). That the name Sion was subsequently

used in a much wider acceptation, and applied par­

ticularly to the sanctuary, is certain; and the fact is

easily explained. The tent or tabernacle erected by

David fur the reception of the ark was certainly on

Mount Sion, and in the city of David (2 Sa-m. vi.

12; 1 Chron. xv. 1,29), and therefore in all the

language of his own divine compositions, and of the

other Psalmists of the conclusion of his and the

commencement of Solomon's reign. Sion was properly

identified with the sanctuary. What could be more

natural than that, when the ark was transferred to

the newly-consecrated temple on the contiguous hill,

which was actually united to its former resting-

place by an artificial embankment, the signification

of the name should be extended so as to comprehend

the Temple Mount, and continue the propriety and

applicability of the received phraseology of David's

and Asaph's Psalms to the new and permanent

abode of the most sacred emblem of the Hebrew

worship? But to attempt to found a topographical

argument on the figurative and frequently elliptical

expressions of Psalms or prophecies is surely (o

build on a foundation of sand. It was no doubt in

order not to perplex the topography of Jerusalem by

the use of ecclesiastical and devotional terminology

that Josephus has wholly abstained from the use

of the name Sion. [G. W.]

SIPH or ZIPH (LXX Alex. Zt>, Vat. "Ojfc:

F.th. Zt(pa7os), a rity of the tribe of Judah, men­

tioned in connection with Maon, Carme], and Juttah

(Jmh. xv. 55). The wilderness of Ziph was a

favourite hiding-place of David when concealing

himself from the malice of Saul. (1 Sam. xxiii. 14,

2*», xxvi. 1; Psalm liv. title.) This wilderness of

Ziph was contiguous to the wilderness of Maon (1

■Sam. xxiii. 25); and this Maon is connected with

Carmel in the history of Nabal and Abigail (xxv. 2).

The three names are still found u few miles south of

Hebron, as Kifniel, Main, Ziph. The ruins lie on

a low ridge between two small wadys. which com­

mence here and run towards the Dead Sea. "There

is here little to be seen except broken walls and

foundations, most of them of unhewn stone, but in­

dicating solidity, and covering a considerable tract of

ground. Numerous cisterns also remain." (Robinson,

Bti>L lien. vol. ii. p. 191). Ziph is placed by St. Je­

rome 8 miles E. of Hebron (S. would be more correct),

and the desert of Ziph is frequently mentioned in the

annals of the recluses of Palestine, while the site of

the town was identified by travellers at least three

centuries ago. (Kiirer. Itinerarinm,p. 68.) [G.W.]

SIPH A K or TIPHA (2^<w, Thuc iv. 76; Scy-

lax, p. 15; Steph. B. «.t\; Ptol. Hi. 15. § 5; Plin.

iv. 3. ft. 4; Ti>a, Pans. ix. 32. § 4: EtH T^aloy,

Tt<f>atfvs), a town of ISocotia, upon the Corinthian

gulf, which was sail

Tiphys, the pilot of

Pausanias the inhaV

spot where the slii

from its celebrated i

tions a temple of

honour an annual

I.e.') Thucydides(l

and Stephanas II. (s

dependency of Thesj

by Muller and Kiep

attention to the fac

lying \V. of Thishe;

port Sardndi, near

Taxiarches, where i

lenic city. On thi

territory of Thisbe I

Siphae, which Leak

of Thespiae over a

Boeotia, whence tl«

part of the Coriuthi

mon acceptation, be<

Xorthmt Greece, v

SIPUNOS or SI1

Siphno Gr.t Siplu

Aegaean sea, one

Seriphos, and NK.

§ 66) describes it i

considerably larger,

island was original

ancient name of Mi

phanus B. (j. r.).

from Athens (Hero

to have derived its

Sunius. (Steph. B.

gold and silver m:

seen, the Siphnianj

were regarded, in t!

as the wealthiest ol

sury at Delphi, in i

the produce of thei

equal in wealth to t

states; and their

with Parian marble

them to pillage; a

the time of Polycral

a contribution of 1

The Siphnians wen

Aegaean who refu

fought with a s'mgl

at Salamis. (Hen

Athenian supremac

tribute of 3600 d

Or. n. 52.) Then

ductive; and Paus

sequence of the Si

tenth of their treasi

their mines by an

time of Strabo the

that atrrp

pression. (Strab. ]

Jtionys. Per. 525;

The moral chantct

and hence to act h

nsed as a term ol

Hesych.) The Si|

tiquity, as they an

skill in pottery,

mentions a particnl

ing cups were mad

was a species of U

