LYDIA. 223 LYDIA.

xiii. p. 621), and, according to Meneeraies the

EUeaii, the whole coast of Ionia, beginning from

Mycale, and of Aeulis." (Xiebuhr, Hut. of Rome,

ToLi. p. 32.) They no doubt extended beyond the

coast into the interior of the country. The existence

of a Pelasgian population is probably also implied

in the statement, that the most ancient royal dy­

nasty of Lydia were Heracleidae, and that Lydus

was a brother of Tyrrhenus. The Lydians, on the

other hand, are expressly stated to have had nothing

in common with the l'elasgians (Dionys. i. 30),

and all we know of them points to more eastern

countries as their original home. It is true that

Herodotus connects the Heracleid dynasty with that

of Assyria, but if any value can be attached to this

statement at all, it refers only to the rulers; but it

may be as unfounded as his belief that most of the

Greek institutions had been derived from Egypt.

The Lydians are described as a kindred people of the

Carious and Mysians, and all three are said to have

had one common ancestor as well as one common lan­

guage and religion. (Herod, i. 171.) The Carians

are the only one of these three nations that are men­

tioned by Homer. It is impossible to ascertain

what country was originally inhabited by the Ly­

dians though it is reasonable to assume that they

occupied some district near the Maeonians; and it

is puneible that the Phrygians, who are said to have

migrated into Asia from Thrace, may have pressed

upon the Lydians, and thus forced them to make

conquests in the country of the Maeonians. The

time when these conquests took place, and when the

Maeonians were overpowered or expelled, is con­

jectured by Xiebuhr (Lect. on Arte. Hist, vol. i.

p. 87) to have been the time when the Heracleid

dynasty was supplanted by that of the Mennnadae,

who were real Lydians. 'This would place the con­

quest of Maeonia by the Lydians about the year

B. G 720. The Maeonians, however, after this,

still maintained themselves in the country of the

Upper Hermns, which continued to be called Mae­

onia; whence Ptolemy ( v. 2. § 21) speaks of Mae­

onia as a part of Lydia. Pliny (v. 30) also

speaks of the Maeonii as the inhabitants of a district

between Philadelphia and Tralles, and Hierocles

{p. 670) and other ecclesiastical writers mention

tijere a small town called Maeonia, which Mr. Ha­

milton (fitsenrckes, vol. ii. p. 139. &c) is inclined

to identify with the ruins of Mvijne, about five

miles west of Sandal. To what branch of the

human family the Lydians belonged is a question I

which cannot be answered, any more than that

about their original seats; all the Lydian words

which have been transmitted to us are quite foreign

to the Greek, and their kinsmen, the Carians, are

described as a people speaking a barbarous lan­

guage.

3. Institution* and Custom*.—Although the Ly­

dians n.ust be regarded as barbarians, and although

tLi-r were different from the Greeks both in their lan­

guage and in their religion, yet they were capable,

like some other Asiatic nations, of adopting or de­

veloping institutions resembling those of the lireeks,

'□ouch in a lesser degree than the Carians and

Lycians, for the Lydians always lived under a mo­

narchy, and never rose to free political institutions.

They and the Carians were both gifted nations;

they cultivated the arts, and were in many respects

title inferior to the Greeks. Previous to their con­

quest by the Persians, they were an industrious,

brate, aud warlike people, nnd their cavalry was

regarded as the best at that time. (Herod, i. 79;

Mimnerm. /. c.) Cyrus purposely crushed their war­

like spirit, forbade them the use of arms, and

caused them to practice dancing and singing, instead

of cultivating the arts of war. (Herod, i. 154;

Justin, i. 8.) Their subsequent partiality to music-

was probably the reason why the Greeks ascribed to

them the invention of gymnastic games. (Herod,

i. 94.) The mode of life thus forced upon them by

their conquerors gradually led them to that degree

of effeminacy for which they were afterwards so no­

torious. Their commercial industry, however, con­

tinued under the Persian rule, and was a source of

great prosperity. (Herod, i. 14, 25, 51, &c.) In

their manners the Lydians differed but little from

the Greeks, though their civilisation was inferior, as

is manifest from the fact of their daughters gene­

rally gaining their dowries by public prostitution,

without thereby injuring their reputation. (Herod,

i. 93.) The moral character of the Lydian women

necessarily suffered from such a custom, and it

cannot be matter of surprise that ancient Greek au­

thors speak of them with contempt. (Strab. xi.

p. 533, xiii. p. 627.) Aa to the religion of the

Lydians we know very little: their chief divinity

appears to have been Cybele, but they also wor­

shipped Artemis and Bacchus (Athen. xiv. p. 636;

Dionys. Perieg. 842). and the phallus worship beemg

to have been universal, whence we still find enormous

phalli on nearly all the Lydian tombs. (Hamilton's

Itejiearches, vol. 1. p. 145.) The Lydians are said

to have been the first to establish inns for travellers,

and to coin money. (Herod, i. 94.) The Lydian

coins display Greek art in its highest perfection;

they have no inscriptions, but are only adorned with

the figure of a lion, which was the talisman of

Sardes. We do not know that the Lydians had any

alphabet or literature of their own: the want of

these things can scarcely have been felt, for the

people must at an early period have become familiar

with the language aud literature of their Greek

neighbours.

4. History.—The Greeks possessed several works

on the history of Lydia, and one of them was the

production of Xanthus, a native of Sardes, the capital

of Lydia; but all have perished with the exception

of a few insignificant fragments. If we had the

work of Xanthus, we should no doubt be well in­

formed on various points on which we can now only

form conjectures. As it is, we owe nearly all our

knowledge of Lydian history to Herodotus. Ac­

cording to him (i. 7) Lydia was successively governed

by three dynasties. The first began with Lydus,

the son of Atys, but the number of its kings is not

mentioned. The second dynasty was that of the

Heracleidae, beginning with Agron, and ending with

Candaules, whom the Greeks called Myrsilus. The

commencement of theHeraeleid dynasty may be dated

about B. c. 1200; they are connected in the legend

in Herodotus with the founder of Xineveh, which,

according to Xiebuhr, means either that they were

actually descended from an Assyrian family, or that

the Heracleid dynasty submitted to the supremacy

of the king of Xineveh, and thus connected itself

with the race of Xinus and Belus. The Heracleids

maintained themselves on the throne of Lydia, in

unbroken succession, for a jieriod of 505 years. The

third d; nasty, or that of the Mcrmnadae, probably

the first really Lydian rulers, commenced their

reign, according to some, in B.C. 713 or 716, and

according to Eusebius,twemv-twoyears later. Gyges,

<J 3'

