soa LUCANIA. LUCAXIA.

had not, however, subdued the Greek cities on the

coasts, some of which fell at a later period under the

joke of the Bruttians; while others maintained their

independence, though for the most part in a decayed

and eufeebled condition, till the period of the Roman

dominion. [Magna Gbaecia.] Shortly afterwards,

the Lucanians lost the Bruttian peninsula, their

most recent acquisition, by the revolt of the Brut­

tians, who, from a mere troop of outlaws and ban­

ditti, gradually coalesced into a formidable nation.

[Bkuttii.] The establishment of this power in the

extreme south, confined the Lucanians within the

limits which are commonly assigned from this time

forth to their territory; they seem to have acqui­

esced, after a brief struggle, in the independence of

of the Bruttians, and soon made common cause with

them against the Greeks. Their arms were now

principally directed against the Tarentines, on their

eastern frontier. The latter people, who had appa­

rently taken little part in the earlier contests of the

Greeks with the Lucanians, were now compelled to

provide for their own defence; and successively

called in the assistance of Archidamus, king of

Sparta, and Alexander, king of Kpirus. The

former monarch was slain in a battle against the

Lucanians in n. c. 338. and his whole army cut to

pieces (Diod. xvi. 63, 88; Strab. vi. p. 280): but

Alexander proved a more formidable antagonist: lie

defeated the Lucanians (though supported by the

Sammies) in a great battle near Paestum, as well

as in several minor encounters, took several of their

cities, and carried his arms into the heart of Brut-

tium, where he ultimately fell in battle near Pan-

dosia, B.C. 326. (Liv. viii. 24; Justin, xii. 2.

xxiii. I; Strab. vi. p. 256.) It would appear as if

the power of the Lucanians was considerably broken

at this period j and in B. c. 303, when we next hear

of them as engaged in war with the Tarentines, the

very arrival of C'leonymiis from Sparta is said to

have terrified them into the conclusion of a treaty.

(Diod. xx. 104.)

Meantime the Lucanians had become involved in

relations with a more formidable power. Already,

in B.c. 326, immediately after the death of Alexander

king of Kpirus, the Lucanians are mentioned as

voluntarily concluding a treaty of peace and alliance

with Rome, which was then just entering on the

Second Samnito War. (Liv. viii. 25.) We have no

explanation of the causes which led to this change

of policy ; just before, we find them in alliance with

the Samnites, and very shortly after they returned

once more to their old allies, (lb. 27.) But though

they were thus brought into a Btate of direct

hostility with Rume, it was not till b. c. 317, that

the course of events allowed the Romans to punish

their defection. In that year the consuls for the

first time entered Lucania, and took the town of

Neruluni by assault. (Liv. ix. 20.) The Lucanians

were evidently included iu the pence which put an

end to the Second Samnite War (b. c. 304), and

from this time continued steadfast in the Roman

alliance; so that it was the attack made on them by

the Samnites which led to the Third Samnite War,

ij. r. 298. (Liv. x. II.) Throughout that struggle

the Lucanians seem to have lieen faithful to Rome;

and were piobably admitted to an alliance on favour­

able conditions at its cIo*>e. But in B. c. 286, they

having turned their anus against Thurii, the Romans

took up the cause of the besieged city, and declared

war against the Lucanians, over whom M'. Curius

ii said to have celebrated an ovation. (Aur. Vict, dt

I't'r Illiut. 33); and four years afterwards («. r.

282) the allied forces of the Lucanians and Samnites,

which had again beleaguered Thurii, were defeated

in a great battle by C. Kabricius. (VaL Max. i. 8.

§ 6.) On the arrival of Pyrrhusin Italy (».c. 281)

the Lucanians were among the first to declare in

favour of that monarch, though it was not till after

his victory at Ueroclea that they actually sent their

contingent to his support. (1'lut. Pyrr. 13, 17;

Zonar. viii. 3.) The Lucanian auxiliaries are espe­

cially mentioned in the service of that prince at the

battle of Asculum (Dionys. xx., Fr. Didot): but wbea

Pyrrhus withdrew from Italy, he left bis allies at

the mercy of the Roman arms, and the Lucanians

in particular, were exposed to the full brunt of their

resentment. After they had seen their armies de­

feated, and their territory ravaged in several suc­

cessive compaigns, by C. Fabricius, Cornelius Ku-

finus, and M'. Curius, they were at length reduced

to submission by Sp. Carvilius and L. Papirri*

Cursor in B. c. 272. (Zonar. viii. 6; Eutrop. ii. 14;

Liv. Epit. xiii. xiv., Ftut. Cajiit.)

From this time the Lucanians continued in undis­

turbed subjection to Rome till the Secoud l*unic

War. In the celebrated register of the Roman f.ircs

in B.C. 225, the Lucanians (including, probably, the

Bruttians, who are not separately noticed) are reck­

oned as capable of bringing into the field 3O.DO0

foot and 3000 horse, so that they must have been

still a numerot-.s and powerful j>eople. (Pol. ii. 24.)

But they suffered severely in the Second Punic War.

Having declared ill favour of Hannibal atter the

battle of Cannae (h. c. 21G), their territory lecaror

during many successive campaigns the theatre of

war, and was ravaged, in turn, by both cimtendiru;

armies. Thus, in n.c. 214, it was the scene uf the

contest between Sempronirjs Gracchus and Hanno;

in the following year Gracchus employed the whole

campaign within its limits, and it was in Locsmu*

that that general met with his untimely death in

the summer of B.C. 212. (Liv. xxii. 61, xxiv. 30,

xxv. 1,16.) At length, in B. a 209, the Lacania"»,

in conjunction with the Hirpini, abandoned the alli­

ance of Hannibal, and betrayed the garrisons wh^cb

lie had left in their towns into the hands of the

Romans; in consideration of which service they

were admitted to favourable terms. (Id. xxvii. 15.)

They did not, however, yet escape the evils of war;

for in the next year their territory was the scene of

the campaign of Marcellus and Crispinus against

Hannibal, in which both consuls perished; and it

was not till after the battle of the Mctaums, in n.c.

207, that Hannibal withdrew his forces into Brut-

tium, and abandoned the attempt to maintain his

footing in Lucania. (Liv. xxvii. 51, xxviii. 11.)

Strain* tells us that the Lucanians were puni-hr*!

by the Romans for their defection to Hannibal. \-r

being reduced to the same degraded condition as tf.r

Bruttians. (Strab. v. p. 251.) But this ran only lw

true of those among them who had refused to j.an en

the general submission of the people in B.C. 209, T-»t

clung to Hannibal to the last: the others were

restored to a somewhat favourable condition, and

continued to form a considerable nation; though, if

we may trust to the statement of Strabo. tbrv

never recovered from the ravages of this war.

But it was the Social War (n.c. 90—88)thatgaTS

the final blow to the prosperity of Lucania. Tb»

Lucanians on that occasion were among the first to

take up arms; and, after bearing an important part

I throughout the contest, they still, in con junction with

