MARIABA.

275 MARIANA.

Questions Proposes, par M. Michaelis, pp. 183—

188.) This catastrophe seems to have happened

about the time of Alexander the Great, though

some chronologies place it subsequently to the Chris­

tian aera. Sale places the city three days' journey

from Sanaa (note, m loc. cit."). The notion of the

identity of Martb with Sheba, mentioned by Abul-

feda, is still maintained by some natives; and Nie-

bobr quotes for this opinion a native of the town

itself (Description de IArabic, p. 252), and justly

murks that the existence of the remains of the

famous reservoir of the Sabaeans in the vicinity of

Martb serves to identify it with the capital of the

Sabaeans. To account for the capital not bearing

the name of the tribe, as was usual, he suggests

that the Sabaeans may have derived their name from

mother town, and then have built this stupendous

reservoir near Mariaba, and there have fixed the

residence of their kings. But a fact elsewhere

mentioned by him, will perhaps lead to a more

(itisfectory solution. It seems that the great re­

servoir is not situated before Mareb, nor close to it,

bat at the distance of an hour, and on the side of it.

This may account for its preservation on the burst­

ing of the embankment. May not the inundation

have occasioned the utter destruction of the neigh­

bouring city of Sheba, as the traditions relate, white

tlw royal residence at March escaped, and formed

the ancleus of the modern town? We have seen

from Abulfeda that some native authorities maintain

that Waarib was the royal residence, while the ca­

pital itself was called Saba. The name Mariaba

(si Mariva) signifying, according to the etymology

flf Puny, "dominos omnium," would well suit the

nsidence of the dominant family (vi. 28. § 32).

Martb is now the principal town of the district

«f Ltoorf 16 German leagues KNE. of Sana, con­

taining only 300 houses, with a wall and three gates;

tad the ruins of a palace of Queen Balkis are

there shown. The reservoir is still much celebrated.

It is described by a native as a valley between two

chains of mountains, nearly a day's journey in length

(=5 German leagues). Six or seven small streams,

flowing from the west and south, are united in this

Ttllcy, which contracts so much at its east end, by

the emergence of the mountains, that it is not more

than 5 or 6 minutes wide. This space was closed

br s thick wall, to retain the superfluous water

Murine and after the rains, and to distribute it over

the field* and gardens on the east and north by

three sluice-gates, one over the other. The wall

wm40 or 50 feet high, built of enormous blocks of

hewn stone, and the ruins of its two sides still

remain, h precisely resembles in its construction

the Bends, as they are called, in the woods of BeU

fravt, near Buhlerie, on the Bosphorus, which

Mppir Constantinople with water, only that the

*wi at Mareb is on a much larger scale, (Nie-  
Wjr.lcpp. 240, 241.)

1 Mari.%ba Bahamalacum. A city of this

ian» in the interior of Arabia is mentioned with

tins distinguishing appellation by Pliny (vi. 32)

m i considerable town of the Charmaei, which

r*» cue division of the Mixaei: he calls it

"ffydnm xvi. mill, pass, . . ., et ipsum non

*J*rwndojn." It is supposed by some to be iden­  
tical with the Baxaba metropolis (E&paSa al. M«-

#4» unTpoxoXts) of Ptolemy (vi. 15, p. 155),

■hith he places in long. 76°, lat. 18° 20'. Forster

h*» t*nd its representative in the modern 7,araba1

wb°M situation corresponds sufficiently well with

the Baraba metropolis of Ptolemy (Geog. of Ara­

bia, vol. i. p. 135, ii. p. 256); but his account of

the designation Barasralacum (quasi Bar-Ama-

lacum, equivalent to " Merab of the sons of Ame-

lek") is inadmissible according to all rules of

etymology (vol. ii. pp. 43, 47). Taraba, pronounced

by the Bedouins Toroba, is 30 hours (about 80

miles) distant from Tayf in the Hedjaz^ still a con.

siderable town, "as large as Tayf, remarkable for

its plantations, which furnish all the surrounding

country with dates; and famous for its resistance

against the Turkish forces of Mohammed Ali, until

January, 1815, when its inhabitants were compelled

to submit. Taraba is environed with palm-

groves and gardens, watered by numerous rivulets."

(Burckhardt, Travels in Arabia, Appendix, No. iv.

]'. 451.) A more probable derivation of Burama-

lacum from Bahr-u-malkim = the Royal Lake,

would identify it with the preceding, No. 1. (Vin­

cent, Periplus, p. 307.)

3. Mariaba, another inland city of Arabia, is

mentioned also by Pliny (I. c.) as the capital of the

Calingii, 6 M.P. in circumference, which was, ac­

cording to him, one of the eight towns taken and

destroyed by Aelius Gallus. He has perhaps con­

founded it with the Marsyabae which Strabo fixes as

the limit of his expedition, and the siege of which

he was forced to abandon; but it was remarked be­

fore that this name was according to Pliny equiva­

lent to metropolis, — though the etymology of the

name is hopelessly obscure: — so that it is very

possible that, besides the Marsyabae mentioned by

Strabo, a Mariaba may have fallen in with the line

of that general's march, either identical with one of

those above named, or distinct from both; possibly

still marked by a modern site of one of several towns

still preserving a modification of the name, as EU

Marabba, marked in Kiepert's map in the very heart

of the country of the Wahibites; and a Merab

marked by Arrowsmith, in the NE. of the Aedjd

country. [Marsyabae.] [G. W.]

MA 1* I AM A {Maptd,ua), an inland city of Arabia,

mentioned only by Ptolemy (vi. 15), who places it in

long. 78° 10' and lat. 17° 10', and therefore not far

south-east from his Baraba or Maraba metropolis

[Mariaba, 2]. Manncrt (Geograpkie, pt. vi. vol.i.

p. G6) suggests its identity with Maribba, marked

in Niebuhr's map towards the north-east of Yemen,

which is, however, the name of a district, not of a

town, its capital being named Aram (Description

de CArabie, p. 228); but this would not agree

with the position above assigned to Mariaba Barama-

lacum. (Ritter, Erdlcunde von Arabien, vol. i.

p. 283.) [Marsyabae.] [G. W.]

MARIAMME (Mafndfifirf), a city of Syria, sub­

ject to Aradus, and surrendered with Aradus and

its other dependencies, Marathus and Sigon, to Alex­

ander the Great by Straton, son of Gerostratus, king

of Aradus. (Arrian, ii. 14. § 8.) It is placed by

Ptolemy in the district of Cassiotis (v. 15), and by

Hierocles in the second eparchy of Syria (ajmd

Wesseling, Itineraria, p. 712). [G. W.]

MARIANA (Mafjiai^, Ptol.), a city on the E.

coast of Corsica, which, as its name imports, Mas a

Roman colony, founded by the celebrated C. Marius.

(Plin. hi. 6.s. 12; Ptol. iii. 2. § 5; Mel. ii. 7. § 19;

Senec Cons, ad Dele. 8.) Nothing more is known.

of its history, but it is recognised as holding colonial

rank by Pliny and Mela, and appears to have been

one of the two principal cities in the island. It is a

plausible conjecture ot'Cluverius that it was founded

t2

