204 L0ND0BRIS. LONGULA.

least wren pates. By the sides of the chief roads

stood the cemeteries, from which enormous quantities

of sepulchral remains have been, and still are, pro­

cured. Among the inscriptions, are records of sol­

diers of the second, the sixth, and the twentieth

legions. (CoL Ant. vol i.) We have no evidence,

however, to show that the legions themselves were

ever quartered at Londininm. The only troops

which may be considered to have been stationed in

this city were a cohort of the native Britons {Oil.

Ant. vol. i.); but it is not known at what particular

period they were here. It is, however, a rather

remarkable fact, as it was somewhat contrary to the

policy of the Romans to station the auxiliaries in

their native countries.

Traces of temples and portions of statues have

also been found in London. The most remarkuble

of the latter is, perhaps, the bronze head of Hadrian

found in the Thames, and the large bronze hand found

in Thames Street. In reference to the statues in

bronze which adorned Londinium and other cities of

Roman Britain, the reader may be directed to a

curious passage in Geoffrey of Monmouth. That

writer relates (xii. 13), tliut, after the death of Cad-

walla, the Britons embalmed his body and placed it

in a bronze statue, which was set upon a bronze

horse of wonderful beauty, and placed over the

western gate of London, as a trophy of victory and

as a terror to the Saxons. All that we are called

upon to consider in this statement is, whether it is

at all likely that the writer would have invented the

details about the works in bronze ; and whether it is

not very probable that the story was made up to

account fur some Roman works of art, which, for cen­

turies after the Romans ha 1 left Britain, remained a

wonder and a puzzle to their successors. Equestrian

statues in bronze were erected in Britain by the

Romans, as is proved by a fragment found at Lin­

coln ; but in the subsequent and middle ages such

works of art were not fabricated.

We have above referred to the " Pracpositus The-

aaurorum Augustensiuin." Numerous coins are

extant of the mint of Londinium. Those which

may be certainly thus attributed are of Carnusius,

Allecttu, Conatantinus, and the Constantino family.

(Akerman s Coins of tltt Iloiuatis rtlating to Bri­

tain.) With respect to the precise position of the

public buildings, and, indeed, of the general distri­

bution of the Roman city, but little is known; it is,

however, very certain, that, with some few exceptions,

the course of the modern streets is no guide to that

of the ancient. This has also been remarked to be

the case at Treren and other ancient cities. [C.R.S.I

LO'NDOBRIS (AoKoogplj, Ptol. ii. 5. § 10; Ao-

foi/irzut, Marc. Heracl. p. 43: Fitrlingwit), a small

island, and the only one, belonging to the province of

Lusitania, lay off the promontory I.inaiuim (C.

Cortwetro.) [P. S.]

LONG AN US (Aoyya*6s), a river in the N. of

Sicily, not far from Mylae (Miluzzv), celebrated

for the victory of Hieron, king of Syracuse, over the

Maraertinea in B. c. 270 (Pol. i. 9 ; Diud. xxii. 13;

Exc. H. p. 499, where the name is written Aoi-

Twor, but the same rirer is undoubtedly meant).

Polybius describe* it as "in the plain of Mylae"

(Ik t^ MvAaup irfSiff), but it is impossible to say,

with cerlaiuty, which of the small rivers that flow

into the sea near that town is the one meant. The

Fium* di Santa Lucia, about three miles south­

west of Milazzo, has perhnpe the beat claim; though

C'laveriua fixea on the Fiume ill Cattro limit, a

little more distant from that citv. (Cluv. Sri

p. 303.) [E. H. a]

LONGATICUM, a town in the S. of Puuunat

Superior, on the road from Aquileia to Emonv Now

J^ogatecz, according to Muchar. {It. Anton.: It.

llieros.; Tab. Pent.; Muchar, Xoricum, p. 232.)

LOXGOBARDI. [ Lanoouaroi. J

LONGONES. [Sakuima.]

LONGOVICUS, a town in Britain, mentioned is

the Xolitia, and nowhere else. It was, pruhaMr. in

the neighbourhood of the Cumberland and West­

moreland lakes; but beyond this it is not safe to go

further in the way of identification; though the M',-

numenta Brilimnica makes it lAuieatter. [R. G. L.]

LO'NGULA (\oyyo\a : Eth. Longulanus : Bman

Mposo), an ancient city of Ijitium, which senna

to have been included in the territory of the Vi4-

siians. It first appears as a Volacian city, winch

was taken by assault by the Roman consul, Poatu-

mus Cominius in u. c. 493. (Liv. ii. 33: Dionya.

vi. 91.) But it was recovered by the Vobcians

under the command of Coriolanus, in B.C AS6 (Liv.

ii. 39; Uionys. viii. 36): in both cases it is described

as falling an easy prey to the invading army, and

was probably not a place of any great importance;

indeed Livy's expressions would lead us to infer tits!

it was u dependency of Aiitium. Afier this ii is only

incidentally mentioned; once, as the place where toe

Roman army under L. Aeuiilius encamped in the war

against the Volacians, B.C. 482(l>ionys.viii.85): and

again, at a much later period in the Santnite Wan,

B. c. 309. (Liv. ix. 39.) Its name is after this

found only in Pliny's list of the cities of Latiuro

which were in his time utterly decayed and deserted.

(Plin. hi. 5. s. 9.) As he enumerates it am<»e the

cities that shared in the sacrifices on the Alton

Mount, it would seem to have been originally a Lavlta

city, though it had fallen into the hands of the Vol-

scians before its name ap[>ears in hi- tory.

All the above passages would lead us to place

Longula in the neighbourhood of Antiiun, while the

two former connect it closely with Pollusca and

Corioli. These are all the data which we have for

determining its position, which must therefore be in

some degree matter of conjecture, especially as that

of Pollusca and Corioli is equally uncertain. Bat

Nibby has pointed out a locality which has at ail

events a plausible claim to be that of Longula, ia

the eaxalr, or farm-house, now called Boon Jiipoao.

on the right of the road from Koine to Antrum,

about 27 miles from limne, and 10 in a straight line

from Porto dAnto* The farm,or ttnula, of Awoa

Jiijioto lies between that of Carroetto on the cue

side, and Ardca on the other; while the site occu­

pied by the catale itself, and which was that <af a

castle in the middle ages, is described as one oi tins*

which is so clearly marked by natural advantages c4"

[losition that it could scarcely fail to have brvn

chosen as the site of an ancient city. No ruins re­

main; but perlmiw these could hardly be expected

in the case of a town that ceased to exist at so early

a period. (Nibby, roL i. p. 326; Abrken, JiUtri-

ltalien, p. I'l.) [E.H.B.]

* The position assigned to Buon Ripoeo on Cell's

msp does not accord with this description of the »n»

given by Nibby; but this part of the map is Terr

imperfect, and evidently not derived from pervoul

observation. Gell's own account of the situatko of

Hum Kipoio (p. 185), though less precise, agrees

with that of Nibby.

