SOLORIUS MONSL SONTIA. 1021

M Tost distinct indication of its locality Is afforded

11 pafrafe of Festus (a, v. Pomonal, p. 250),

ert he tells us ** i'omonal est in agro Sulonio,

tOiueDsi, ad duodecimum lapidem, diverticula a

i.m octavo." It is thence evident that the

c« Solonios" extended westward us fur as the

j'Mitaai-, and probably tiie whole tract border-

l >n the territories of Oslia, Laurentuin, and

rie, was known by this name. It may well

niurt hare extended to the neighbourhood of

sanam »W>. Cicero tells us that it abounded in

un (Ik Dig. ii. 31.) It appears from one of

i Irtferi that lie had a villa there, as well as Ma-

i, Ui which he talks uf retiring in order to avoid

i:«tioQ at Rome (ad Ait. ii. 3).

TU origin of the name is unknown; it tray pro-

hl; osve been derived from some extinct town of

1 usott; but no trace of such ii found. Dionytdus,

rro, speaks of an Ktnucan city of Solonium,

m *hence the Lucuino caine to the assistance of

aulas (Dionys. iL 37); but the name is in all

■ability corrupt, and, at all events, cannot af-

i uy explanation of the Latin district of the

r*. [E. H.B.J

»U/RIUS MOXS, an offi»hoot of Mum Argen­

ts*, running to tlie S\V\, on the borders of His-

j Tarrmcooeosis and Kaetica, and connecting

sot Ortuspeda with Mount Ilipula. (Plin. hi. 1.

LJ tl t* probably the same mountain mentioned

titnbo (hi. p. 156) as rich in gold and other

m, asd the present Sierra Xrvatbt. [T. H. L>.]

IULUS or &OLUNTLM (2oA<J«it, Thuc; 2o-

I I>iad.: Kth. Xakovrrlrtn, I>iod., but coins have

j-t^jj; Suluntinus: SoUinto), a city of Sirily,

i -i an the N. coast of the island, about 12

f K ot Panormus, and immediately to the E. of

Wtd prurrvotory called Capo Zaffaraiuu It

II Phoenician colony, and from its proximity to

arm us was one of the few which that people re­

ad when they pave way before the advance of

ut*rJt c« lui,:es in Sicily, and withdrew to the

'. urnrr of the island. (Time. ri. 2.) It after-

si f<*md together »ith I'auonmis and Motyainto

bands uf the Carthaginians, or at least became a

•sjrncy uf that people. It continued steadfast

fce ' srlhaginiaD alliance evrn in b. c 397, when

fraudable armanent of Dionysius shook the

ity uf most <>{ their allies (Diod. xiv. 48); its

tury was in consequence ravaged by Dionv- in-.

■ tWit etfect. At a later period of the war

.-. 3*J6) it was betrayed into the hands of that

* (lb, 76), but probably soon fell again into

• r of the Carthaginians. It was certainly

■ the cities that usually formed part of their

•-ujCia in the island; and in h. c. 307 it was

a up by them to the soldiers and mercerories of

nodes, who hail made peace with the Cart ha*

as when abamloned by their leader in Africa.

i. ix. 69.) During the First Punic War we

ft <jil subject to Carthage, and it was not till

the fall of 1'anorniM that Soluntum a!>o

ai its gates to the Roman*. (Id. xxiit. p. 505.)

•uiuned to subsist under the Roman dominiou

ipsJ town, but apparently one of no great

as its name ii only slightly and oeca-

J.y mcwti»neU by Cicero ( Yrrr. ii. 42, iii. 43.)

ii is still noticed both by Pliny and Ptolemy

l ui. 8. a. 14; Ptol. iii. 4. § 3, where the name

rrupUy written 'OAovA/f), as well as at a later

■j by the Itineraries, which place it 12 miles

Panorama and 12 from Thermae (Termini).

(Itin. Ant. p. 91; Tab. Pent.) It is probable that

its complete destruction dates from the time of the

Saracens.

At the present day the site of the ancient city is

wholly desolate and uninhabited. It stood on a lofty

hill, now called the Monte Catalfano, at the foot of

which is a small cove or port, with a fort, still called

the Castello di Solanto, and a station for the tunny

fishery. The traces of two ancient roads, paved

with large blocks of stone, which led up to the city,

may still be followed, and the whole summit of the

hill is covered with fragments of ancient walls and

foundation uf buddings. Among these may M

traced the remains of two temples, of which some

capitals, portions of friezes, &c. have been discovered;

but it is impossible to trace the plan and design of

these or a iy other edifices. They are probably all

of them of the period of the Roman dominion.

Several cisterns for water also remain, as well us

sepulchres; ami some fragments of sculpture of con­

siderable merit have been discovered on the site.

(Faze 11, de Heb. Sic. Tiii. p. 352; Amico, Lex, Top.

vol. ii. pp. 192—195; Hoare's Clan. Tow, vol. ii.

p. 234; Serra di Falco, Ant. delta Sicilia, vol. v. pn.

60—67.) [E. H. B.]

COIN OF SOLUS.

SOLYOKIA, SOLYGEIUS. [Corinth to, pp.

684. h, G85, a.]

SOLYMA (ri 2o>vua), a high mountain near

Phaselis in I.ycin. (Strah. xiv. p. 666.) As the

mountain is not mentioned by any other writer, it is

probably only another name for the Chimaera Mors,

the Olympus, or the mountains of the Solymi,

mentioned by Homer. (Od. v. 283.) In the Sta-

diasmus it is simply called the opos urya: it extends

about 70 miles northward from Phaselis, and its

highest point, now called Taghtaht, rises immediately

above the ruins of Phaselis, which exactly corre­

sponds with the statement of Strsbo. (I^ake, Asia

Minor, p. 189.) [L.S.]

SOLYMI. [Ltoa.]

SOMENA. [Simkna.]

SONAUTES, according to Pliny (vi. 1), a river

in Pontus; while, according to Apollonius Khodius

(ii. 747), the Acheron in Bithynia was anciently

called Soonautes (Soao/aufTji). [L. S.]

SONEIUM, a place in Moesia Snperior, on the

bonlers of Thrace, at tl»e pass of Mount Scomiuy,

called Succi. (/tin. Hieros. p. 567.) Identified

with Bagna. [T. H. D.]

SON 1ST A, a town in Upper Pannonia, on the

road from Poetovium to Sisrin. (Geog. Rav. iv. 19;

Tab. Pent.; It. Htero*. p. 561, where it is written

Sunista.) Its exact site is unknown. [L. 8.]

SO'NTIA (Kth. SontinM: Sansa), a town of

Lucania, known only from Pliny, who enumerates

the Sontini among the municipal towns of that pio-

vince (Plin. iii. II. s. 15). It is probable that it is

the same pWce now called Sanza, situated in the

mountains about 12 miles N. of the Gulf of Poli-

IK. H B ]

