TUSCUM MARK. TVBIACAE. 1245

fill remain, the chief of which is one on a kind of

edeital, recording that the object to which it be-

Miged was sacred to Jupiter and Liberty. Other

^■riptions found at Tu>eulum are preserved in the

I ittj KufntUa. One of tliem relates to M. Fulviua

(obilior, the conqueror of Aetolia; another to the

■ Diphilos, mentioned by Cicero in his letters to

Mtieus (ii. 19).

Sear the hermitage at Camaldoli was discovered

n 1C67 a very ancient tomb of the Furii, as recorded

<y Fslconieri, in his Inscrr. Athleticac, p. 143, seq.

! wu cut in the rock, and in the middle of it was a

urcophagua, about 5 feet long, with a pediment-

haped cover. Round it were twelve urns placed in

or coffins. The inscriptions on these urns

me in so ancient a character that it bore a great

neuihlar.ee to the Etruscan and Pelasgic. The

arm of the P resembled that in the sepulchral in-

eri prions of the Scipios, as well as that of the

rh* diphthong OV was used for V, and P for F.

foe inscriptions on the urns related to the Furii,

In! on the sarcophagus to Luc. Turpilius. There

'rre nlso fragments of fictile vases, commonly called

'tni.'can, and of an elegant cornice of terra cotta,

um'.cd with various colours. (Nibby, Vintorni,

ii p. 360.)

We shall only add that the ager Tuaculanus,

!-vj.-h now but scantily supplied with water, for-

nerly contributed to furnish Rome with that element

j means of the Aqua Tepula and Aqua Virgo.

Front. Aj. 8, i>eq.)

itapecting Tnsculum the reader may consult

'uiina, Detcririone dell antico TusaUo; Nibby,

rWomi di Roma, vol. iii.; Gell, Topography of

r.''v* and tat Vicinity, ed. Bunbury; Abeken, Afit-

'l-Italien ; Compagnoni, ilem. itloriche del? antico

rWwfo. On Ciccru's villa, Cardoni, De Tutcul. M.

T. Cicmnis; Zuzteri, Sopra if una antica Villa

ntpertanl Dorm del Tueculo. [T. H. 1).]

TUSCTM MARK. [Tykriiksuh Make.]

TUTA'TIO, a place in Noricnm of uncertain

it* (It Ant. p. 277 i Tab. Prut., where it is called

Uastio.) [L. S.]

TTJ'THOA (Toufloo), a river of western Arcadia,

!"*iug into the Ladon, on the confines of Tbelpusa

-iJ Heraca. It is now called Langddhia, and joins  
'r Ladon opposite to the small village of Reneti.

I'm., viii. 25. § 12; Leake, SI area, vol. ii. p. 95,

■"'pomesiaca, p. 223.)

TITTIA, a small stream in the neighbourhood of

'■j:ne, mentioned only by Livy and Silins Italicus,

'bo inform oa that Hannibal encamped on its

*-iks, when he was commencing his retreat from  
efore the walls of Rome. (Liv. XX vi. 11; SU. ltal.

"'■ 5.) Liry places it 6 miles from the city, and

I is probable that it was on the Salarian Way, by

Inch Hannibal subsequently commenced his retreat:

> this case it may probably be the stream now

abed the Fiume di Conca, which crosses that rood

<i»een 6 and 7 miles from Rome, and lias been

opposed by Gell and Nibby to be the Alli.i.

Ai-UA.] SUius Italicns expressly tells us that it

'»* a very small stream, and little known to fame,

lie name is written Turin in many editions of that

o*% bat it appears that the best MSS. both of

■has and of Livy have the form Tutia. [ K. 11. B.]

TUT1A (Tovrrio, Plut Sert. 19), a place in the

<rnU*j of the Edetani in Hi.tpania Tarraconensis

't tar from Sucm, the scene of a battle between

'urapey and Senoriua (Plut. /. c; Florus, iii. 22.)

t is thought to be the modern Tout. But

the conjecture of TJkert (ii. pt i. p. 413) is correct

that in both these passages we should read

Turia. [T. II. D.]

TUTICUM. [Ecjuus Tuners.]

TUTZ1S (It. Anton, p. 162), a small fortified

town in Aethiopia, situated 12 miles N. of Ta-

chompso. upon the western side of the Nile. The

ruins of Tutzia are snpprced to be near, and NYV. of

the present village of Gyreeh. (Belzoni, TravtU,

vol. i. p. 112.) [VY. B. D ]

TY'ANA (tA Tiara: Elk. Tueunvt or TuaWviji),

also called Thyana or Thiana, and originally Thoana,

from Thoas, a Thracian king, who was believed to have

pursued Orestes and Py lades thus far, and to liare

founded the town (Aman, PeripL P. E. p. 6; Steph.

B. t. v.). Report said that it was built, like Zela in

Punt as, on a causeway of Semiramis; but it is certain

that it wasbitnated in Cappadociaat the foot of Mount

Taurus, near the Cilician gates, and on a small tri­

butary of the Lamus (Strab. xii. p. 537, xiii. p. 587.)

It stood on the highroad to Cilicia and Syria at a

distance of 300 stadia from Cybistra, and 400

stadia (according to the Pent. Table 73 miles) from

Mazaca (Strab. l.c.; Ptol. v. 6. § 18; comp. Plin.

vi. 3; It. Ant. p. 145). Its situation on that nod

and close to so important a pass must have rendered

Tyana a place of great consequence, both in a com­

mercial and a military point of view. The plain

around it, moreover, was extensive and fertile, and

the whole district received from tho town of Tyana

the name of Tyanitis (Tvarins, Strab. i c). From

its coins we learn that in the reigu of Caracalla the

city became a Roman colony; afterwards, having f,.r

a time belonged to the empire of Palmyra, it was con.

querrd by Aurelian, in A D. 272 ( Vupiac. Aurtl. 22,

foil.), and Vukms raised it to the rank of the capital

of Cappaducia Secunda (Basil. Magn. Epitt. 74, 75;

llierocl. p. 700; Malala, Ckron.; Xot. Imp.) Its

capture by the Turks is related by Cedrenus (p.

477). Tyana is celebrated in history as the native

place of the famous iinpostor Apollonius, of whom

we have a detailed biography by Philostiatus. hi

the vicinity of the town there waa a temple of Zeua

on the borders of a lake in a marshy plain. The

water of the lake itself was cold, hut a hot

well, racred to Zeus, issued from it (Philostr. fit.

ApolL i. 4; Amui. Marc xxiii. 6; AristoL Afir.

Ante. 163.) This well was called Asmabucon, and

from it Zeus himself was surnauied Asmalueus.

These details about the locality of Tyana have liil

in modem times to the discovery of the true site »f

the ancient city. It was formerly believed that

Kara Ilitsar marked the site of Tyana; for in

that district many ruins exist, and its inhabitants

still maintain that their town once was the capital

of Cappaducia. But this place is too far north to be

identified with Trana; and Hamilton (Heieurclitt,

ii. p. 302, full.) has shown most satisfactorily, what

others had conjectured before him, that the true

site of Tyana is at a place now called Kiz liistur,

south-west of Xigdeh, and between this place and

Erekli. The ruins of Tyana are considerable,

but tho most consjiicuous is an aqueduct of

granite, extending seven or eight miles to the foot

of the mountains. Tliere are also massy founda­

tions of several large buildings, shafts, pillars, and

one handsome column still standing. Two miles

south of these ruins, the hut spring also still bubbles

forth in a cold swamp or lake, (l.eake, Asia Minor,

61; Eckhel, iii. p. 195; Sestini, p. 6a) [L. S.1

TYBIACAE (TrfuUoi, PtoL vi. 14. § 11), a

