TUSCULTJM. TUSCULUM. 1243

atins. {lb. 33.) Servins Sulpicius and L. Quinc-

u>. both military tribunes, were the Roman com-

uniers on this occasion: and on some rare gold

4iu, still extant, of the former family, are seen on

m obverse the heads of Castor and Pollux, deities

wuliarly worshipped at Tusculum (Cic. Din. i. 43;

t. f estns, a, c>. Stropptu), and on the reverse tho

u«ge of a city with the letters tvscvl on the

•u.

From this period till the time of the great Latin

-u we have little to record of Tusculum except  
ir frustrated attempt of the Veliterni on its terri­

fy (Lir, iv. 3*) and the horrible devastations

ununited on it by the Gauls, when in alliance with

f 1 iburtines, in B. c. 357. (Id. vii. 11.) After

r:r long attachment to Rome we are totally at a

-s to conjecture the motives of the Tuacufans in  
irnnj; the Latin cities against her. The war

fticli ensued is marked by the well-known anec-

•ir of Titus Manhns, who, being challenged by

eminus Metritis, the commander of the Tusculan

ivalry, attacked and killed him, against strict

>lrr» to the contrary; for which breach of military

'iplnie he was put to death by his father. (Id.

■ 7.) The war ended with the complete suhju-

,!i*e> at the Latins ; and by the famous aenaius-

miulmm regulating the settlement of Latium, the

ii-vulans weie treated with great indulgence.

i.nr defection was ascribed to the intrigues of a

*. and their ri^ht of citixenship was preserved to  
mil (/•. 14.) This settlement took place in B.C.

lo. In 321 the Tuscnlans were accused by the

iMiie, U. Flavins, of having supplied the Veliterni

i4 Privet-nates with the means of carrying on war

«irt>t R-ime. There does not appear to liave been

if foundation for this charge; it seems to have

in a mere calumny; nevertheless the Tuscnlans,

in their wives and children, having put on mourn-

t habits, went in a body to Rome, and implored

» tribes to acquit them of so odious an iuiputa-

<i. 'I'his spectacle moved the compassion of the

mans, who, without further inquiry, acquitted

n-n unanimously; with the exception of the tribe

'Ilia, which voted that the men of Tnsculum

mid he scourged and pot to death, and the women

I children sold, agreeably to the laws of war.

lis vote remained indelibly imprinted on the ine­

rt of the Tuscnlans to the very latest period of

■ Roman Republic; and it was found that scarce

» of the tribo Papiria, to which the Tusculan-. bo­

wl, ever voted in favour of a candidate of the

be 1-ollia. (/». 37.)

I turulnm always remained a municipium, and

>e of its families were distinguished at Rome.

I. vi 81—26 ; Orell. Inter. 775, 1368, 3042.)

Long them may be mentioned the gens Mamilia,

'I'orcia, which produced tho two Catos, the

Via, Coruccanla, Jnventia, Fonteia, &c. (Cic

Pine. 8, p. foot 14; Corn. Nep. Cat. 1; VaL

ix. at 4. § 6.)

Hannibal appears to have made an unsuccessful

mint upon, or perhaps rather a mere demonstra-

0 acainst, Tusculum in n. c. 212. (Liv.'xxvi.

rf. SiL It, xii. 534.) In the civil wars of Ma-

• ml Sulla, its territory seems to have been dis­

puted by the latter. (Auct. it Coloniii.) Its

lit were also restored, as well as during the wars

Pcunpey. We have no notices of Tusculum under

1 Kmpire. After the war of Justinian and the in-

ids of the Lombards, Tusculum regained even

re than its ancient splendour. For several ceu-

| furies during tho middle ages the counts of Tus­

culum were supreme in Rome, and could almost

dispose of the papal chair. The ancient city

I remained entire till near the end of the 12th cen-

j tury. At that period there were constant wars

between the Tuaculans and Romans, the former of

whom were supported by the German emperors and

protected by the popes. According to Itomualdus,

archbishop of Salerno (a/W Baronium, vol. xix. p.

340), the walla of Tusculum were raxed in the pon­

tificate of Alexander HI. in the year 1168; but

perhaps a more probable account by Richard do S.

tierraano (ap. Muralori, Script, t, vii. p. 972) as­

cribes the destruction of the city to the permission

of the German emperor in the year 1191.

Towards the end of the Republic and beginning of

the Kmpire, Tusculum was one of the favourite re­

sort* of the wealthy Romans. Strabo (v. p. 239) de­

scribes the hill on which it was boilt as adorned

with many villas and plantations, especially on the

side that looked towards Rome. But though the

air was salubrious and the country fine, it does not

appear, like Tibur, to have been a favourite resort*

of the Roman poets, nor do they speak of it much in

their versos. The Anio, with its fall, besides other

natural beauties, lent a charm to Tibur which would

have been sought in vain at Tusculum. Lucullus

seems to have been one of the first who built a villa

there, which seems to have been on a magnificent

scale, but with little arable land attached to it.

(Pun. xviii. 7. s. 1.) His parks and gardens, how­

ever, which were adorned with aviaries and fish­

ponds, extended to the Anio, a distance of several

miles; whence he was noted in the report of the

censors as making more use of the broom than the

plough, (/4. and Varr. Ji. A', i. 13, iii. 3, seq.;

Columella, i. 4.) On the road towards Romo, in the

Vigna Angrlotti. is the ruin of a large circular mau­

soleum, 90 feet in diameter inside, and very much

resembling the tomb of Cuecilia Mrtclla on the Via

Appia. It evidently belongs to the last period of the

Republic; and Nibby (/Jttttorni, p 344) is inclined

to regard it as the sepulchre of Lucullus, mentioned

by Plutarch ( V'if./.wc43), though that is commonly

identified with a smaller mausoleum between Fras-

cali and the Villa ftttfinella. Besides the villa of

Lucullus, we hear of those of Cato, of Cicero and his

brother Qnintus, of Marcus Brutus, of Q. Hurten-

sius, of T. Anicius, of Balbus, of Caesar, of L.

Crussus. of Q. Metellus, &c. It would now be vain

to seek for the sites of most of these; though it may

perhaps be conjectured that Cato's stood on the hill

to the NK. of the town, which seems to have been

culled Hons Porcins from it, and still bears the

itame of Monte rorzio. So much interest, however, is

attached to the villa of Cicero (Tuscnlanum), as the

favourite retirement in which he probably combur-ed a

great portion of his philosophical works, and especially

the Disputation! which take their name from it. that

we shall here present the reader with the chief par­

ticulars that can be collected on the subject. Re­

specting the site of the villa there have been great

disputes, one school of toiogntphers seeking it at

Grotta f'rrrata, another at the Villa Itnjuurlla.

Both these places lie to the W. of Tusculum, but

the latter nearer to it, and on an eminence, whilst

Grotta r'errata is in the plain. We have seen from

Strabo that the Roman villas lay chiefly on the W.

side of the town; and it will be found further on

that Cicero's adjoined those of Lucullus and <Ia-

binius, which were the most splendid and remarkable,

