698 SAMOS. SAMOS.

this part of the island, has probably given rise to the

name by which it is now called (tj KOTatSarf/).

Tlie position of Samos was nearly opposite the

boundary-line of Curia and Ionia; and its early

traditions connect it, first with Car tans and Leleges,

and then with Ionians. The first Ionian colony is

said to have consisted of settlers from Epidaurus,

who were expelled from thence by the Argives.

However this may be, we find Samos at an early

period in the position of a powerful member of the

Ionic confederacy. At this time it was highly dis­

tinguished in maritime enterprise and the science of

navigation. Thucydides tells us (i. 13) that the

Samiana were among the first to make advances in

naval construction, and that for this purpose they

availed themselves of the services of Ameinocles the

Corinthian shipbuilder. The story of Pliny (vii. 57),

that either they or Pericles the Athenian first con­

structed transports for the conveyance of horses,

though less entitled to literal acceptance, is well

worthy of mention; and Samos will always be

famous for the voyage of her citizen Cohens, who,

"not without divine direction" (Herod, it. 152). fir.-t

penetrated through the Pillars of Hercules into the

Ocean, and thus not only opened out new fields of

commercial enterprise, but enlarged the geographical

ideas of the Greeks by making them for the first

time familiar with the phenomenon of the tides.

Under the despot Polycrates, Samos was in fact

the greatest Greek maritime power. This famous

man, about ten years after the taking of Surd is by

Cyrus, helil Samos in a position of proud independ­

ence, when Lesbue and Chios had submitted to the

Persians. He bad 1000 bowmen in his pay; he

possessed 100 ships of war, and made considerable

conquests both among the islands and the mainland.

He fought successfully against the Milesians and

Lesbians, and made a treaty with Amasis, king of

E^Tpt Whether we are to take the story in the

poetical form in which it is presented to us by He­

rodotus, or to attribute the change to the more

probable motive of self-interest, this treaty was

broken off for an alliance with Cambyses. In con­

nection with this monarch's expedition to the Nile,

some Samian malcontents were so treacherously

treated by Polycrates, that they sought and obtained

assistance from Greece. A joint force of Lacedae­

monians and Corinthians besieged Polycrates in

Samos for forty days; but in this struggle also he

wns successful. At last his own cupidity, acted on by

the fraud of Oroetes, a neighbouring satrap, brought

him to a wretched death on the mainland. The

time which succeeded was full of crime and calamity

for Samos. In the end, Syloson, the brother of

Polycrates (whose association with Cambyses is the

subject of another romantic story in Herodotus),

landed with a Persian army on Samos, and became

a tributary despot; but not till his native island had

been so depopulated as to give rise to the proverb

tKijri "XuXoauti/Tos tvpuxttipirj. For details see the

lives of PoLTCftATBS and Syloson in the Diet of

Biograpkjf. It was at this period that Pythagoras,

who was a native of Samos, left the island to travel

in foreign countries, being partly urged to leave his

home (according to Plutarch, PiadL i. 3) through

discontent under the government of Polycrates,

who. however, was a patron of literature, and had

Anacreon many years at his court. For the chro­

nology of this period sec Clinton, Fast Hell. vol. ii.

note il. pp. 230—2.32.

Samos was now Persian. It was from Samos that

Datls sailed to Marathon, taking Knot ao bis i

Bat the dominion of the Persians did act iafi fa

When their fleet was gathered at Santa s

the battle of Salamis, to the number of 400 i

was in a great measure the urgency of I

voys which induced the commander* of the (

fleet at Delos to go across to the eastern ait of 1

Aegaean. Then followed that battle in the i

which completed the liberation of the Greak*.

In the maritime confederacy which I

soon afterwards under Athenian rule, Sctm i

to have l>een the most powerful of the ihree s

which were exempted from paying tribute, b «

at the instance of her eitiien* that the <

treasure was removed from Delos to Athei

this friendship witpj Athens wu turned iot» I

enmity in consequence of a conflict with V

about the territory of Priene. Samos

volted; and a large force was despatched fr

against it under the command of ten i

of whom were Sophocles and Pericles. Tat J

pronounced in the Cerameicus the funeral (

over those who had fallen in the w&r which, ■

resistance of nine months, reduced Samoa tee

subjection.

From 439 to 412 Samoa remained 1

fications and without a fleet. But about ibis"

date it became the hinge upon which all i

eluding events of the Peloponnesian War really*

The first movements toward* the

an oligarchy at Athens began at Samoa l

intrigues of Alcibiades ; and yet this

practically the home of the Athenian

during the struggle which ensued. It *

that Alcibiades rejoined his fellow-*

from Samos that he finally sailed for:

in 407. Even till after the battle at

Samos was, more than any other place, :> -

quarters and base of operations tur the .""

fleet.

Our notices of the island now become i

mentary. After the death of Alexander*

it was for a time subject to the kinfs of 1

(Polyb. v. 35.) Subsequently, it took the)

Antiochus the Great in his war with

also acted with Mithridates ..; . ..-t Kucne; 1

finally united with the province of Aaia I

After the battle of Actiuin, Augustas

winter there. Under the Roman emperor* its

whole a place of no great importance, 1

the honour of being a free state. (PUn, I

privilege was taken away under Vespeaiac

Corp. 8.) In the diviMon of the Empire t

the Synecdemus we find it placed with f

Chios, &c, in the IVormce of the Id

later division into theme*, it seems to be j

to a distinguished position. It gar*

separate theme, which included a large

the mainland, and was divided into the 1

Kphesus and Adramyttium, the

his residence (apafrayMor) at Surjrnm; j

rangement is spoken of in aoch a way (C

phyrog. de Them. I c.) as distinct!/ to

with the ancient renown of Sairma.

It would be difficult to toikiw the

Samos through the middle ages. ;S

History of the Byumtine and Gmk f

p. 112.) There are some points of <

terest in its modern history. In 1550,

sacked by the Ottomans, it was p*

the Capitan Pacha Ochiali, who introdnoal i

