1W LIMNAE. LIMONUM.

this point it proceeds in a northern direction, under

the name of Teufelshecke (the Devil's Hedge), as

far as Lorch, and is more or less interrupted. From

Lorch onwards it does not present a continuous tine,

its course be inn effaced in many parts; but where it

is visible it generally consists of a mound of between

6 and 7 feet in breadth, sometimes rising to the

height of 10 feet; and oti its eastern side there runs

along it a ditch or trench, which is called by the

people the SchiceinegroJ>en, perhaps a corruption of

Sueeengroben (Ditch of the Suevi). In this state

the limes runs as far as the OJentcabl, from which

point it changes its character altogether, for it con­

sists of a succession of forts, which were originally

connected by palisades. (Spirt. fftulr. 12.) Re­

mains of these forts (caste!la) are seen in many parts.

At Obernhnrg this line of fortifications ceases, as

the river Afuin in its northern course afforded suf­

ficient protection. A little to the e:ist of Aschaffen-

burg, where the Main takes a western direction, the

fortifications recommence, but at first the traces are

not continuous, nntil some miles north of Nidda it

reappears as a continuous mound raised on a founda­

tion of stones. This hist part is now known by the

name of the Pfahlgrab^n, and its remains in some

parts rise to a height of from 10 to 12 feet. It can

bo distinctly traced as far as Jiheittftreitbach, in the

neighbourhood of Bonn, where every trace of a

northern continuali -n di*appears behind the Sieben-

grbirge. It is probable, however, that it was con­

tinued at least as far as Cologne. t where Tiberius

had commenced the construc;it»n of a limes. (Tac.

Ann. i. 50.) Some have supjiosed that it extended

even further north, as far as the river JAppe and

the Caesia forest; but from Tacitus (6Y/vm. 32) it

seems clear that it terminated near the river Sieg.

This enormous line of fortification was the work

of several generations, and the parts which were lirat

built appear to have been those constructed by

Drusus in Mount Tauuus. (Tar, Ann. i. 56; Di'-n

Cass. liv. 33.) Hut Tiberius and the other em­

perors of the first century constructed the greater

part of it, and more especially Trajan and Hadrian.

(Veil. Pat.iL 120; Dion Cass. lvi. 15; Eutrop. viii.

2; Spart. iladr. 12.) Until the reign of Alexander

Severus these limites appear to have effectually pro­

tected the IVcuinates agri; but after that time the

Alemanni frequently broke through the fortifications.

(J. Capitol. Maximin. 13; Flat. Vopi>c. Prob. 13.)

His successors, Posthumus, Lollianus, and Probus,

exerted themselves to repair the breaches; jet after

the death of Probus, it became impossible to prevent

the northern barbarians from breaking through the

fortifications; and about the end of the third cen­

tury the Hot nans for ever lo->t iheir pon.se vs ions in

Germany south of the limes. ((Jump. Wilhelm,

Gcrmanien, p. 290, &c; Buchner, Jieise auf dtr

Teufelsmauer, Regensburg, 1820.) [L.S.]

LIMNAK (AWai), a place on the frontiers of

Messenia and Laconia, containing a temple of Arte*

mis Limnatis, used jointly by the Messenians and

Lacedaemonians. An outrage offered by the Mc*se-

niana to some Lacedaemonian virgins at the festival

of this goddess is taid to have been the cause of the

First Mea-neuian War. (Sirab. vi. p. 257, viii.

p. 3G2; Paus. hi. 2. § 6, iv. 31. § 3.) The pos­

session of this temple, and of the Agcr Den I he li at is,

the district in which it was situated, was a frequent

aub ect of the dispute be'ween the Lacedaemonians

and Meaneniana down to Uie time of the Koman em­

perors. (Tac Ann. iv. 43.) Two ruina of the

temple of Artemis Limnatis have been discovered by

I Joss, near the church of Panaghia BolimniittttMa. tn

the village of BoUmnos; but the tojiography of tin*

district requires a more particular description, ai»i

will be foutid under Mkssknia.

LIMNAE. [Sparta.]

LIMNAKA. 1. (AiMvaia: Eth. Auamubs : Aer-

ttwartf), a town in Acaniania at the SE. corner *d

the Ambraciot gulf, on the very frontier of Acar-

nania towards Argos. There has been a di>pot*

about its site, but the ruin-* at Kervamni are pro­

bacy the remains of Liinnaea : some modern writers

would place it more to the W., eilJier at Lutruki, or

al Ruga. The former supposition, however, ap­

pears to be the more correct, since we learn from

Thucydides that Limnaca lay on the mad from

Aiubracia and Argos Amphilochicuin to Stratus.

which could not have been the case if Limuaea lay

to the W. of Kertasard. Philip III., king «»f Ma­

cedonia, disembarked at Limnaca, when about to

invade Aetolia. There is a marsh near AVrauona,

two miles in length, from which Limnaea appears to

have derived its name. (Time iL 80, iii. 105; PoL

v. 5 ; Leake, Northern Greece, vol. iv. p. 243, sea..)

2. A town of Histiaeotis in The>saly, taken by

the liomahs in n. c. 191, was probably on the site of

Kortikhi. (Liv. xxxvi. 13; Leake, Northern Greece,

vol. iv. p. 512.)

LIMXUS, an island off the coast of Ireland, men­

tioned by Ptolemy (ii. 2), as lying to the *-a>l of

Ireland, and being uninhabited. Pliny aU<» menti-nu

it (iv. 30). It is probably Jxunbay Island. H"W-

ever, the +\fonumenta Britatmica not only sugi;f>u

for Limnos (Ptolemy's Liumus) the modern uain«"-t

of Lambay, Lymen, and Jiani*iyy but they al»o dis­

tinguish it from Limmts (Pliny's Litmus) whit a

they make /toUry. [K. G. L]

LIMONK. [Lkimonk.]

LI'MON'UM or LEMOXL'M (Afuoror. PtoL ii 7.

i § 6: Poitiers), the capital of the Pk tones or Pictar.,

1 one of the Celtic nations south of the Autre. The

name is first mentioned in the eighth b«jk of the

Gallic war (viii. 2G. 27.). At a later time, after lbs

fashion of many other capital towns in Gallia, it took

the name of the people, Pictavi, whence cornea the

modern name Poitiers. (Ammianus Marvel linua, xv.

11.) Though I)e Valoi* and others did not admit

Liinonuin to be Poitiers, and fixed Augustorilum toe

capital of the I^emoviees hi Limoges, the evidence i«"

the roads shows that Limonum mu»t be VWicra.

Magnon, a writer of the 9th ceutury, calls Poitiers by

the name of Pietarus Limonum; and uurnptmns

also found at Poitiers confirm the oilier evidence.

There is a place called Yieux Poitiers, more than 15

Roman miles north of /Wmxs, but though it ecru*

to have been an old town, it is quite a different place

from the Poitiers which is the kite of Limonum.

The conquest of the Pictavi cost the Romans Utile

trouble, we may suppose, for little is said of tana.

In B.C. 51, C. Caninius, a legatus of Caesar, came u

the relief of Duratius, a Gaul and a hV>m.in ally, wfo

was blockaded in Limonum by liumnarua, the rnwf

of the A tales. The siege was raised, and Ifcunnarus

I was subsequently defeated.

The remains of the huge amphitheatre of Limo­

num are described by M. Dufour, in bis //weotnr as

\ PoiUm (quoted in the Guide dm l'oy<y<*r, tnr

i ltnhard el Ilocquart). M. I>ufour found the walls

, of the amphitheatre three feet and a hJl bW..w i. «

present level of the soil. The walls are seven Krrttch

I feet lluck. It is estimated thai this ampoitneaba

