98 ITHACA. ITHACA.

whilo he believes the modern capital town of Bathy

to occupy tho sit* of Oncylcia. (//. /. c.) It ia

true that Strabo (pp. 376. 453) pl:u.es Aegilips and

Crocyleia in Leucas; but this appears inconsistent

with Homer and other ancient authorities. (See

Leake, I. c.)

Plutarch (Quaest. Grate. 43) and Stephanus B.

(*. v.) state that the proper name of the ancient

capital of Ithaca was Alcomenae or Alalcomenae,

and that Ulysses bestowed this appellation upon it

from his having been himself born near Alalcomenae

in Boeotia. But this name is not found in Homer;

and a passage in Strabo tends to identify it with the

ruins on the isthmus of AMs, where the fortrtus

and royal residence of the Itbacan chieftains pro­

bably stood, on account of the advantages of a posi­

tion so e.isily accessible to the sea both on the

eastern and western sides. It is argued by Leake

(L c.) that the Homeric capital city was at Pulis, a

little harbour on the NW. coast of the island, where

some Hellenic remains may still be traced. For the

poet ((A/, iv. 844, seq.) represents the suitors as

lying in wait for Telemaelius on his return from

Peloponnesus at Asteris, "a small island in the

channel between Itliaca and Samos (Cej^tdoniti)"

where the only island is that now called AacriraAioi',

situated exactly opposite the entrance to Port Pulls.

The traditional name jof Pttlls is alone a strong

argument that the town, of which the remains are

still visible there, was that which Scylax (In Acar-

naniii), and still more especially Ptolemy (iii. 14),

mentions as having borne the same name as the

island. It seems highly probable that r) lrikis, or

Oit city, was among the Ithacans the most conunon

designation of their chief town. And if the Homeric

capital was at Palis, it will follow that Mt. Neiuni,

under which it stood ('I0curiir 'Tvomjtou, Od. iii. 81),

was the mountain of Exoge (Jlal. Exui), at the

northern extremity of the island, and that one of its

summits was the Hennaean hill ('Epuoios K6<pos, Od.

zvi. 471) from which Kmnaeus saw the ship of

Telemachus entering the harbour. It becomes pro­

bable, also, that the harbour Kheithrum ('PtlBpor),

which was "under Xcium" but " apart from tl.e

city" (rdcrcbi roK-noi, Od. i. 185), may be identified

with either of the neighbouring bays of Ajales or

Frikia. Near the village of Exoge may be observed

the substructions of an ancient building, probably a

temple, with several steps and niches cut in the

na-k. These remains are now called by tho neigh­

bouring peasants *" the School of Homer."

The Homeric "Fountain of Arethusa" is identi­

fied with a copious spring which rises at the foot of

a cliff fronting the tea, near the SK. extremity of

Ithaca. This cliff is still called A'orar (Kd>a{),

and is, doubtless, that alluded to at Od. xiLL 407,

seq., xir. 5, sc.|., xiv. 398. (See, especially on this

point, Leake, /. c, and Mure, 7our ■'» Greece, vol. i.

p. 67, aeq.)

The most remarkable natural feature of Ithaca

is the Gulf ufitolu, that inlet of the sea which

Dearly divides the island into two portions; and

the most remarkable relic of antiquity ia the so-

called "Castle of Ulysses," placed, as has been

already intimated, on the aides and summit of the

steep hill of Actus, on the connecting isthmus.

Here may be traced several lines of inclosure, testi­

fying the highest antiquity in the rude structure of

massive stones which compose them. The position

of several gates is distinctly marked; there are also

traces of a tower aud of two large subterranean cis-

terns. There can be little donbt that this is the

spot to which Cicero (dt Oral. i. 44) alludes in

praising the patriotism of Ulysses —" ut ltliviin

illam in asjicrrimis saxis tanquam nidulam aiExjm

sapientissimua vir immortalitati anteponeret." The

name of Aetas, moreover, recalls the striking scent

in Od. ii. 146, seq. At the base of this hill there

have been discovered several ancient tombs, sepul­

chral inscriptions, vases, rings, medals, &c. The

coins of Ithaca usually bear the head of Ulysses,

with the pilem, or conical cap, and the legend

'Wax&y; the reverse exhibiting a cock, an emblem

of the hero's vigilance, Athena, his tutelar deity, or

other devices of like import. (Sec Eckhel.)

The Homeric port of Phorcys (Od. xiii. 345) is

supposed to be represented by a small creek now

called Dexia (probably because it is on the right of

the entrance to the harbour of Batlty), or by another

creek now called Skhinos, both on the southern side

of the GulfofMolu. (Leake, /. c.) At a care on

the side of Mount Stephanos or Merortujli, abive

this gulf, and at some short distance from the ses,is

placed the " Grotto of the Nymphs," in which tie

sleeping Ulysses was deposited by the Phi*nicians

who brought him from Scheria. (Od. xiii. 116,

seq.) Leake (/. c.) considers this to be "the only

I»iint in the island exactly corresponding to the port's

data."

The modern capital of Ithaca extends in a narrow

strip of white houses round the southern extremity

of tlie horse-shoe port, or " deep " (RaSv), from which

it derives its name, and which is itself but an inlet of

the Gulf of ifolo, often mentioned already. After

passing through similar vicissitudes to those of its

neighbours, Ithaca is now one of the seven Ionian

Islands under the protectorate of Great Britain, and

contains a population exceeding 10,000 souls, — an

industrious and prroqicrous community. It lias been

truly observed that there is, perhaps, no spot in the

world where the influence of classical associations ia

more lively or more pure; for Ithaca is indebted for no

part of its interest to the rival distinctions of modern

annals, — so much as its name scarcely occurring in

the page of any writer of historical ages, unless with

reference to its poetical celebrity. Indeed, in A. D.

1504, it was nearly, if not quite, uninhabited, having

been depopulated by the incursions of Corsairs; and

record is still extant of the privileges accorded by the

Venetian government to the settlers (probably from

the neighbouring islands and from the mainland of

Greece) by whom it was rcpcopled. (Leake, L e.;

Bowen, Ithaca in 1850, p. 1.)

It lias been assumed throughout this article that

the island still called Ithaca is identical with the

Homeric Ithaca. Of that fact there Is ample testi­

mony in its geographical position, as well as in its

internal features, when compared with the Odyssey.

To every sceptic we may say, in the wurds of Athena

to Ulysses (Od. xiii. 344), —

oAA' ayt toi 8«ifa> 'I0d>r>)i Bor ctyoa wrs-eufc>s.

(The arguments on the sceptical side of the questiun

have been collated by Voliker, Homer. (ie\*jr, 46

COIS or ITHACA.

