24S MAGNA GRAECIA. MAGNA GRAECIA.

as Caulosta on tho E. coast, but considerably more

to the S. Locri, also, liad established two colonies

on the \V. coast, Hmtonm m and Mkdma; neither

of wliich, however, attained to any great importance.

Several other places which at a later period assumed

more or less of a Greek character, were probably

only Ocnotrian towns, which had become gradually

Ilellenised, but without ever receiving Greek colonies.

Such were Pandosia, Petklia, Tkmesa, and pro­

bably Stitli.etu'51 also, though this is frequently

culled an Athenian colony.

We have very little information as to the early

history of these Greek cities in Italy. All accounts

agree in representing them as rising rapidly to a

high state of prosperity, and attaining to an amount

of wealtli and power which far exceeded that enjoyed

at so early a period by any of the cities of the mother

country. The Achaean colonies, Sybaris, Crotona,

mid Metapontum, seem to have been the first to

Attain to this flourishing condition; and Sybaris

especially became proverbial for its wealth and the

luxurious habits of its citizens. [Sybaris.] There

can be no doubt that the extraordinary fertility of

the district in which these colonies were founded

was the primary cause of their prosperity; but they

appear, also, to have carried on an extensive foreign

commerce; and as they increased in power they

sought to extend their territorial possessions, so that

we are told that Sybaris, in the days of its greatness,

ruled over twenty-five dependent cities, and four

nations or tribes of the neighbouring Oenotriaus.

(Strab. vi. p. 263.) It is remarkable how little we

hear of any wars with the barbarians of the interior,

or of any check to the progress of the Greek cities

arising from this cause; and it seems probable, not

only that the Pclasgic origin of these tribes [Oe*

kotkia] caused them to assimilate with compa­

rative facility with the Hellenic settlers, but that

ntany of them were admitted to the full rights of

citizens, and amalgamated into one body with the

foreign colonists. This we know to have been the

case with Locri in particular (Pol. xii. 5); and there

can be little doubt that the same thing took place

more or less extensively in all the other cities.

(I)iod. xii. 9.) It is, indeed, impossible, on any

other supposition, to explain the rapidity with which

the»e rose to an amount of wealth and population at

that time unexampled in the Hellenic world.

It seems certain that the period of about two cen­

turies, which elapsed from the first settlement of the

Greek colonies till after the fall of Sybaris (n.c.710

—510), was that during which these, cities rose to

the height of their power; and probably the half

century preceding the latter event (n.c. 560—510)

may he taken as the culminating point in the pro­

sperity of the Achaean cities (Grote, vol.iii. p. 522.)

Unfortunately, it is precisely for this period that we

are the most absolutely deficient in historical in­

formation. The loss of the early books of Diodorus

is especially to bo regretted, as they would undoubt­

edly have preserved to us many interesting notices

concerning the early fortunes of the Greek cities,

and at the same time have afforded us a clue to the

chronological arrangement of the few scattered facts

that have been preserved to us. The want of this

renders it impossible to connect the extant notices

into anything like a historical narrative.

Among the earliest of these may probably be

placed the league of the three great Achaean cities,

Crotona, Sybaris, and Metapontum, for the expulsion

of the lonians from their colony of Siris,—an union

which appears to have led to the capture, and per­

haps the destruction, of that city. (Justin, xx. S.)

But the date of this event is almost wholly on->

certain [Sims], and scarcely less so is that of the

much more celebrated battle of the Sagras, which

Justin connects with the fall of Siris; while other

authors would bring it down to a much later period.

[Sacra*.] According to all accounts, that (anxnu

battle, in which it is said that 120,000 Crotoniau

were defeated by 10,000, or at most 15,000, rf the

Locrians and Khegians, inflicted for a time a sever*

blow upon the prosperity of Crotona: but Strabo is

certainly in error in representing that city as never

recovering from its effects. [Crotona.] Justin, on

the contrary, describes the period of depression con­

sequent on this disaster as continuing only till tb«

time of Pythagoras (xx. 4); and it is certain that

in the days of that philosopher, Crotona, as well as

the neighbouring Achaean cities, appears in a fetate

of great prosperity.

It was about the year B.C. 530 that the arrival

of Pythagoras at Crotona gave rise to a marked

change in the cities of Magna Graecia. The extra­

ordinary influence which he speedily acquired, was

not confined to that city, but extended to Sybaris

and Metapontum also, as well as to Rhegium and

Tarentum, And it was so far from being limited to

the proper sphere of philosophy, that it led to the

introduction of great political changes, and for a

time threw the chief ascendency in the state into

the hands of the Pythagoreans. [Crotona.] Their

power was ultimately overthrown by a violent rrvu-

lution, which led to the expulsion of Pythagoras

himself and his followers from Crotona; and this

seems to hare been followed by similar distnrbsno-a

in the other cities. We are very imperfectly in­

formed as to the circumstances of these revolutions,

but it seems certain that they gave ri-e to a period

of disorder and confusion throughout the cities of

Magna Graecia from which the latter did not fully

recover for a considerable period. (Pol. ii. 39; Justin,

xx. 4; Iambi. Vit. Pyth. 258—264; Porphyr. V. /*.

54—58.)

It was apparently before the expulsion of tlie

Pythagoreans, and while their influence wm* still

paramount at Crotona, that the final contest air»«

between that city and Sybaris, which ended in tee­

total destruction of the latter, B.C. 510. On that

occasion we are told that the Crotoniats brought

into the field 100,000 men, and the Sybarite* not

less than 300,000; and though these numbers can­

not be received as historically accurate, they suffici­

ently prove the opinion entertained of the opulence

and power of the rival cities. The decisive victory

of the Crotoniats on the banks of the river Traets

was followed by the capture and total destruction «f

Sybaris, — an event which seems to have produced a

profound sensation in the Hellenic world (Herod, ri.

21), and must have caused a great change in the

political relations of Magna Graecia. Unfortunately,

we have no means of tracing these; we know nnjy

that a part of the surviving Sybarites took refuge in

the colonial cities of Lalis aud Scidrus, while another

portion settled themselves on the banks of the Traeta,

where they maintained themselves for a oxuidcrabie

period. (Herod. L e.; Strab. vi. pp. 263, 264.)

The civil dissensions arising from the expulsion of

the Pythagoreans may perhaps have been the cause

of the remarkable circumstance (which we are other-

wise at a loss to account for), that none of the state*

of MagnaGraecia sent assistance to theUreeks at the

