n;4 MOTYA. MOSTENI.

mistake as well U we can. It is possible that both

rivers were called Moaa; and Mosclla or Mosula, as

l'lorus lias it, seems to be a diminutive of Mosa, but

that reading ia somewhat doubtful. (Floras, iii. 10.

ed. Dak.) There is no variation in Caesar's text

in the passage where he speaks of the confluence of

the Rbenm and the Mosa. (Caesar, ed. Schneider.)

Several of the affluents of the Mosel are mentioned

in the ancient writers, and chiefly l>y Ausonius: the

Sura (Sow), Prooaea (/'rum), Nemeaa (A'wni),

Gelbis (A7//), Erubrua (Hnrer), Lesura (£eaer)f

Drahonus (/'rem*), Saravus (.Sa«r), and Saluiona

(jSahn\

The Masella is celebrated in one of the longer

poems nf Ausonius, who wrote in the 4th century

a. i). The vine at that time clothed the slopes of

the hills and the cliffs which bound this deep and

picturesque river valley in its course below Trier:

"Qua sublimit apex longo super ardua tractu,

Kt rapes el aprica jugi, flex usque sinusque

Vitibus adaurgunt naturaUoua thcatro." (v. 154.)

There is a German metrical translation of this poem

by Mocking with notes.

Tht Mos&l rises on tlie western face of the Voggti,

and its upper course is in the hill country, formed

by tlie offsets of the mountains. It then enters the

plain of Lorraine, and after passing Tullum ( Tout),

it is joined by the Sfewthe on the right bank.

From the junction of the Meurih* it is navigable,

and has a general north course past Divodurum

(Mttz\ and ThiimriUe, to Augusta Trevirorum

(7ViVt or Treves). From Trier its general course

is about NXE. with many great bends, and in a

bed deep sunk below the adjacent country, to its

junction with the Rhine at Cobienz. The whole

course of the river is somewhat leasj than 300 miles.

It is navigable for steamboats in some seasons as

far as AUtz.

A Roman governor in Gallia proposed to unite

the Mosella and the Arar (Stu'nte) by a canal, and

thus to effect a navigation from (he Mediterranean

to the North Sea [Gai.i.ia Transalpina, Vol. I.

p. 907.] [II. f,]

MOSTE'Nl (MotfTifvoi), a town of Lydia in the

Hyrcantan plain, south-east of Thyatira, and on the

road between this latter town and Sard is. In A. t>.

17, Mosteoi and many other towns of that country

were visited by a fearful earthquake. (Ptol, v. 2.

§10; Tac. Ann. \i. 17 ; Hierocl. p. 671, where it

is erroneously called Muttt^ or M6rrrtva; Coucil.

Chalo. p. 240. where it bears the name Movffr-f}v7).)

Its exact site is unknown. (Comp. Rasche, Lex,

Num. iii. 1. p. 869, &c) [L. S.]

MOSYCHLUS. [Lkmnos.]

MOSYNOECI, MOSSYNOECI, MOSYNI, MOS­

SY NI (MoffOVoucoi, MoiTvvroiKot, Movvvoi, Moir-

crurot), a tribe on the coast of Pontns,occupying the

district between the Tibareni ami Ifacronea, and con­

taining the towns of CSRASUS and PlfARKACIA.

The M'isynocci were a brave and warlike [K'ople, but

are at the same time said to have been the rudest

and moat uncivilised among all the tribes of Asia

Minor. Many of their peculiar customs are noticed

by the Greeks, who planted colonies in their districts.

They are said to have lived on trees and in towers.

(Strab. xii. p. 549.) Their kings, it is said, were

fleeted by the people, and dwelt in an isolated tower

rising somewhat above the houses of his subjects,

who watched his proceedings closely, and provided

him with all that was necessary; but when he did

anything thai displeased them, they rtopprd taw

supplies, and left him to die of starvation. (X«a,

A nab. v. 4, § 26; Apoll.,n. Rliod. ii. 1027; I Hoi

xiv. 30; Bcymnus, Fraffm. 1Mb) Taey uiei ti

cut off the heads of the enemies they had slain, iai

tarry them about amid dances and songs, (laa

Anab. iv. 4. § 17; v. 4. § 15.) It is afeo rtfed

that they knew nothing of nmrriage (Xen. JaJ

v. 4. § 33; Diod. /. c.), and that they prnenaa;

tattooed their bodies. Kating and drinking H

their greatest happiness, whence the children rftfc

wealthy among them were regularly fattened »a1

salt dolphins and chestnuts, until they were afcttt

as they were tall (Xen. Anab. v. 4. § 32). Taaj

anus consisted of heavy spears, six cubits in kngti

with round or globular handles; large shitsb i

wicker-work covered with ox-hides ; and leatawi

wooden helmets, the top of which was adiroedai

a crest of hair, (Xen. t. c, v. 4. § 12; Heraa.*J

78.) The fourth chapter of the fifth book of Jm

phon'a Anabasis is full of curious information

this singular people. (Comp. also Strab. xi. p.

Hecat. t*ragm. 193; Steph. B. ». r.; Herod."

Sevlax, p. 33.; Amm. Marc. xxri. 8 ; Orph. Aff}

740; Mela, i. 19; Tibull. iv. 1. 146; Curtiejjj

4. 17; Plin. vi. 4; Yal. Place, v. 152; DitmyaJ

766.) [Ui

MOTE'NE. [Oram.]

MO TYA (Morvrj: Eth. MorvaTot: SL

a city on the W. coast of Sicily, between Dreaajj

and Lilybaeum. It was situated on a small

about three quarters of a mile (six stadia)

mainland, to which it was joined by an ai

causeway. (Diod. xiv. 4S.) It was origil

colony of the Phoenicians, who wyre food of

I ing similar sites, and probably in the first i

I merely a commercial station or emporium, bi

dually rose to be a flourishing and important I

I The Greeks, however, according to their

'assigned it a legendary origin, and derived r

from a woman named Motya, whom they ca

I with the fables concerning Hercules. (St«»ph.

It passrd. in common with the other l'r.< *>nictaai

I tlements in Sicily, at a later period under the gal

ment or dependency of Carthage, whence ~"

calls it a Carthaginian colony; but it ia

that this is not strictly correct. (Thuc, vi.

xiv. 47.) As the Greek colonies in Sicily incfll

in numbers and importance the Phoeni

dually abandoned their settlements in the

neighbourhood of the new comers, and

themselves in the three principal colonies oj

Panonnus, and Motya. (Thuc. I. c.) Tba

these, from its proximity to Carthage i i it

! portune situation for communication with Afra

well as the natural strength of its position, h

one of the chief strongholds of the CarthmciaaM

well as one of the most important of I

mercial cities in the island. (Dind. xiv.

appears to have held, in both these rrsncjaj

same position which was attained at

by Lilybaeum. [Lilybaeum.] NotvriJ

these accounts of its early importance an

ing condition, the name of Motya is rarely

in history until just before the |«riod'oaf

inorable siege. It is first mentioned by

(a/>.Steph. B. s. v.). and Thucydides

the chief colonies of the Phoenicians in

still subsisted at the period of the* At

dition, n. c. 415. (Thuc. vi. 2.) A fei

(b. c. 409) when the Carthaginian

