NILUS. ■(.II NILUS.

The river nearly resembles in its natural features

and the cultivation of its banks the acknowledged

Kile below the junction lower down. The current

ii swift and regular: the banks are firm and well

defined: populous Tillages stand in the midst of

clumps of date-trees or fields of millet (dhourra),

and both the land and the water attest the activity

of human enterprise.

A difference corresponding to these features is

observable also in the respective currents of these

rivers. The White River moves sluggishly along,

without rapids or cataracts: the Blue River runs

strongly at all seasons, and after the periodical rains

vith the force and speed of a torrent. The diver­

sity is seen also on the arrival of their waters at the

point of junction. Although the White River is

fed by early rains near the equator, its floods ordi­

narily reach Khartum three weeks later than those

of the Blue River. And at their place of meeting

the superior strength of the latter is apparent. For

while the stronger flood discharges itself through a

broad channel, free from bars and shoals, the White

River is contracted at its mouth, and the more rapid

current of its rival has thrown up a line of sand

across its influx. Actual measurement, too, has

prwed the breadth of the Blue River at the point

of junction to be 768 yards, while that of the

White is only 483, and the body of water poured

down by the former is double of that discharged by

the latter. From all these circumstances it is pro­

bable that to the Bahr-el~Azrek rather than to

the Bahr-cl-Abiad belongs the name of the "true

Nile:" and this supposition accords with an ancient

tradition among the people of Sennaar who hold the

Blue River in peculiar veneration as the "Father of

the Waters that run into the Great Sea."

The knowledge possessed by the ancients of the

upper portions and tributaries of the Nile was not

altogether in a direct proportion to the date of their

intercourse with those regions. Indeed, the earlier

track of commerce was more favourable to acquaint­

ance with the interior than were its later channels.

The overland route declined after the Ptolemies

transferred the trade from the rivers and the roads

across the desert to Axume, Adulis, Berenice, and

the ports of the Red Sea. Eratosthenes and other geo-

grapLera, who wrote while Aethiopia still flourished,

had thns better means of information than their suc­

cessors in Roman times, Strabo, Ptolemy, &c. Dio-

dorus (i. 30), for example, says that a voyage up

the Kile to Meroe was a costly and hazardous under­

taking; and Nero's explorers (Plin. v. 9. s. 10; Senec.

A". Q. vi. 8) seem to have found in that once popu­

lous and fertile kingdom only solitude and decay.

At the close of the third century A. p. the Romans

abandoned every station on the Nile above Philae,

as nut worth the cost and care of defence, — a proof

that the river-traffic, beyond Aegypt, must have

dwindled away. As the trade with Arabia and

Tsprobane (Ceylon) by sea developed itself, that with

Libya would become of less importance; and in pro-

yjnvm as the Red Sea was better known, the

branches and sources of the Kile were obscured.

(2.) The A& below the point of junction.—The

two streams flow in a common bed for several miles

K. of Khartum, without, however, blending their

waters. The Bahr-Abiad retains its white soapy

bue. both in the dry season and during the inun­

dations, while the Bahr-Azrtk is distinguished by

ha dark colour. For 12 or 15 miles below the point

of junction the Kile traverses a narrow and gloomy

defile, until it emerges among the immense plains

of herbage in the mesopotamian district of Meroe.

Beyond Meroe, already described [Meroe], the

■Kile receives its last considerable affluent, the Asta-

boras or Tacazze; the only other accessions to ita

stream in its course northward being the torrents or

wadys that, in the rainy season, descend from the

Arabian hills. From the N. of Meroe to Syene,

a distance of about 700 miles, the river enters

upon the region of Cataracts, concerning which the

ancients invented or credited so many marvels.

(Cic Somn. Sap. 5; Senec. N. Q. iv. 2.)

These rapids are seven in number, and are

simply dams or weirs of granite or porphyry rising

through the sandstone, and, being little affected

by the attrition of the water, resist its action,

divide its stream, and render its fall per mile

double of the average fall below Philae. So far,

however, from the river descending lofty precipices

with a deafening noise, even the steepest of the

rapids may be shot, though not without some dan­

ger, at high water; and at the great Cataract the

entire descent in a space of 5 miles is only 80 feet.

[Philae.] Increased by the stream of the Asta-

boras, the Nile, from lat. 17° 45' N., flows in a

northerly direction for 120 miles, through the land

of the Berbers. Then comes its great SW. elbow

or bend, commencing at the rocky island of

Mogrtb (lat 19° K), and continuing nearly

to the most northern point of Meroe. During

this lateral deflection the Kile is bounded W. by

the desert of Bahiouda, the region of the an­

cient Kubae, and E. by the Arabian Desert, in­

habited, or rather traversed, by the nomade Blem-

myes and Megabari. [Macrobii.] Throughout

this portion of its course the navigation of the river

is greatly impeded by rapids, so that the caravans

leave its banks, and regain them by a road crossing

the eastern desert at Derr or Syene, between the

first and second Cataracts. No monuments connect

this region with either Meroe or Aegypt. It must

always, indeed, have been thinly peopled, since the

only cultivable soil consists of strips or patches of

land extending about 2 miles at furthest beyond

either bank of the Nile.

While skirting or intersecting the kingdom of

Meroe, the river flowed by city and necropolis,

which, according to some writers, imparted their

forms and civilisation to Aegypt, according to

others derived both art and polity from it. The

desert of Bahiouda severs the chain of monuments,

which, however, is resumed below the fourth Cata­

ract at Nouri, Gebel-iUBirkel, and Meraict.

(Lat 20° N.) Of thirty-five pyramids at AWi,

on the left bank of the river, about half are in

good preservation; but the purpose which they

served is uncertain, since no ruins of any cities

point to them as a necropolis, and they are without

sculptures or hieroglyphics. On the western side

of Gebel-eLBirkel, about 8 miles lower down, and

on the right bank, are found not only pyramids, but

also the remains of several temples and the ves­

tiges of a city, probably Napata, the capital of Can-

dace, the Acthiopian queen. [Napata.] (Cail-

liaud, t Isle de Meroe, vol. iii. p. 197; Hoskins,

Travel/, p. 136—141.) About the 18th degree

of N. latitude the Nile resumes its northerly direc­

tion, which it observes generally until it approaches

the second Cataract. In resuming its direct course

to N., it enters the kingdom of Dongola, and most

of the features which marked its channel through the

