584 rETRAs jincon. PKTRA.

from it supplied the inhabitants with water. But

now its banks are overspread with hyacinths, olean­

ders, and other flowers anil shrubs, ami overshadowed

by lofty trees.

Opposite to where the Sik terminates, in a se­

cond ravine-like but broader valley, another mo­

nument, the finest one at Petra, and perhaps in all

Syria, strikes the eye of the traveller. This is the

Khmneh,—well preserved, considering its age and

site, and still exhibiting its delicate chiselled work

and all the freshness and beauty of its colouring.

It has two rows of six columns over one another,

with statues between, with capitals and sculptured

pediments, the upper one of which is divided by a

little round temple crowned with an urn. The Arabs

imagine that the urn contains a treasure,— El Kkut-

neh, whence the name,—which they ascribe to Pharaoh

(Robinson, ii. p. 519). The interior does not correspond

with the magnificence of the fvadf, being a plain

lofty hall, with a chamber adjoining each of its three

sides. It was either a mausoleum, or, more probably,

a temple.

From this spot the cliffs on both sides the Watfy

are pierced with numerous excavations, the cham­

bers of which are usually small, though the fa­

nnies are occasionally of some size and magnifi­

cence; all. however, so various that scarce two are

exactly alike. After a gentle curve the Wtuhj ex­

pands, and here on its left side lies the theatre, en­

tirely hewn out of the rock. Its diameter at the

bottom is 120 feet (Irby and Mangles, p. 428), and

it has thirty-three, or, according to another account,

thirty-eight, rows of seats, capable of accommodating

at least 3000 spectators. Strangely enough, it is

entirely surrounded with tombs. One of these is in­

scribed with the name of Q. Praefectus Plorentinus

(Laborde, p. 59), probably the governor of Arabia

Petraca under Hadrian or Antoninus Pius. Another

has aGrcek inscription,not yet deciphered. A striking

effect is produced by the bright anil lively tints of the

variegated stone, out of which springs the wild tig

and tamarisk, while creeping plants overspread the

walls, and thorns and brambles cover the pedestals

and cornices (/.<<n'o/i, xxxiv. 13). Travellers are

agreed that these excavations were mostly tombs,

though some think they may originally have served

as dwellings. A few were, doubtless, temples for the

worship of Baal, but subsequently converted into

Christian churches.

Proceeding down the stream, at about 150 paces

from the theatre, the cliffs begin to expand, and

soon vanish altogether, to give place to a small

plain, about a mile square, surrounded with gentle

eminences. The brook, which now turns to the VY.,

traverses the middle of this plain till it reaches a

ledge of sandstone cliffs, at a distance of rather more

than a mile. Tins was the site of Petra, and is still

<■ .vered with heaps of hewn stones, traces of jtaved

Streets, and foundations of houses. There are remains

of several larger and smaller temples, of a bridge, of

a triumphal arch of degenerate architecture, and of

the walls of a great public building—Kusr Faron,

or the palace of Pharaoh.

On an eminence south of this is a single column

{Zub Faron, i. e. hastn virilis Pharaonis). con­

nected with the foundation-walls of a temple whose

pillars lie scattered around in broken fragments,

Laborde (p. 59) thinks that the Acropolis occu­

pied an isolated hill on the W. At the NW. ex­

tremity of the cliffs is the Deir, or cloister, hewn

in the rock. A ravine, like ttie Sik, with many

windings, leads to it, and the approach BTarUv*

a path 5 or f> feet broad, with step* cot in th

rock with inexpressible labour. Its fa$adt is loft

than that of the Khuzneh; but. as in thai buttsf

the interior does not answer to it, curs&tine rf i

large square chamber, with a recess itsenibiactfc

niche for the altar in Greek ecclesiastical inlaw

ture, and bearinc evident signs of barinz beo c*l

verted from a heathen into a Christian tempi*. Tl

destruction of Petra, so frequently prepbaial i

Scripture, was at length wrought by the Mabomtal

From that time it remained un visited, except Waal

crusading kings of Jerusalem; and perhip* by i

single European traveller, Thetmar. at thebeensi

of the 13th century. It was discovered by Btrdthd

whose account of it still continues to be lb*

(Robinson, it. p. 527.) Laborde's work is ehsi

valuable for the engravings. See also lrby I

Mangles. TYrtfvk.ch.viii; Robjnson,BihLKtxarm

vol. ii.p. 512,seq. [T.H.DJ

2. A town in the land of the Lizi in Csld

founded by Joannes Tzibus, a general <W Jartisi

in order to keep the Lazi in subjection. U1

situated upon a rock near the coast, and "Ml

strongly fortified. (Procop. B. Ptrs. ii. 15.17.)-

was taken by Chosroes in a. i>. 541. and *»!

sequent siege by the Romans is described by G*\

as one of the most remarkable actions of lbs J

'Die tir.it siege was relieved; but it was aj

attacked by the Romans, and was at length ■

by assault after a lone; protracted rwistanca, i

551. It was then destroyed by the Bunsssu

from that time disappears from hUtory. Its n

which are now called Oudjenar, are describsi

Dubois. (Procop. 21. Ar.«. ii. 17, 20, 30, B.4

iv. 11,12; Gibbon, c. xlii. vol. v. . _•!.-.>.•

Dubois, Vuyagc autour du CavcasCy toL ii. J

seq.)

3. A very strong fiulress in S»gdUna, bat

Arimaxes when Alexander attacked it. (Caaf,

11; comp. Arrian,iv. 19; Strab. xi. p. 517.) Itil

bably the modern Kokiten, near the pass of Asl

or Derbcnd. [See Diet.of Biogr. Vol 1. p. SI

PETRAS MAJOR (Utrpa% o pryas, Scyij

Ptol. iv. 5. § 3 ; Stotluunu § 33), a bafts!

Mannarica, a day's sail from Plyni Port as. ssd

same as the larse harbour which Strmba (

p. 838) places near Ardanis Prom., and dss|

as lying opposite to Chersonesus of Cme. ali

tance of 3000 stadia. It agrees in pantwa

Port Barduih, where there are spring* U* the \

Marsa fibfo—a, [LaJ

PETRAS MIXOR (TU'iycs 6 pi*p6s, Scjt]

Ptol. iv. 5. § 2; Sladiusm. § 39). a Larhsj

Marmariea, half a day's sail from Antiprrgwi

has been identified with Mttykarab-ei-UrtMbet9%

there are a great number of catacombs mass!

for their Graeco-Aegyptian style- Tbes* esj

excavations, of whicli plans are giTen hi |

(Voyage dani la Marmariqttt, Ptaocbea, aj

are to be identified, according to that ua

([.■-■I'.'). "lib tin- -2i. u i - >....r.v < • F«oU

(HofiSaia), resembling the AegyptUn "* brpri

which the Greeks called "Syringes,** aientses!

Synesius (Ep. 104); but lUrth ( M iaira^M

p. 512) has shown that the docript*** m

bishop of Ptolemais cannot be applied fteH

catacombs and their locality. A cud «JtJ

epigraph (IE-PA, which Pellerin refrrml fj

put in Mannarica is by Eckhel (iv. 116) ssfl

to a Cretan mint i i; ,

