VESTINI. 1283 VESUXXA.

rates. (Uv. Epit Ixzt, Ixxvi; Appian, B. C. i. 52;

Urns. v. 18.) There U no doubt thai they at this time

received the Roman franchise, and henceforth be-

ctiM merged in the ordinary condition of Roman citi­

zen*. Hence we hear nothing more of them in history,

tiwogb it is evident that they retained their existence

at a feparate tribe, which is recognised by all the

peoijraphers, a* well as by inscriptions. (Strab. v.

p. 241; Plin. hi. 12. 8. 17; Plol. iii. 1. § 59; Orel).

Inter. 4036.) From the last source we learn that

tbrr were enrolled in the Quirinian tribe. Their

territory was included in the Fourth Region of Au­

gustus (Plin. L c), but in the later division of Italy

il was separated into two, the maritime district being

united with Pieenum, while the inland portion or

valley of tbe Ateraus was included (together with

tlie asbines and Peligni) in the province of Valeria.

(Lii. Colon, pp. 227, 228; Bingham's Ecclet. An-

liq ix. ch. 5, sect. 3.) We learn from Juvenal that

taey continued to retain their primitive simplicity

and rustic habits of life even under the Roman Em­

pire. (Juv. xiv. 181.) Silius Italicus speaks of

them as a race, hardy and warlike, and habituated

■ the chase; their rugged mountains were doubt­

less still the refuge of many wild animals. (SiL

ItaL viii. 513.) The more inland parts of their ter­

ritory abounded in excellent upland pastures, which

produced a kind of cheese that was highly esteemed

at Koine. (Plin. xi. 42. a. 97; Martial, xiii. 31.)

The most important physical feature of the terri­

tory of the Vestini is the Monte Corno or Gran

•mi*. <f Italia, which, as already observed, is the

uigbest summit of the Apennines. This was identi­

fied by Cluver, who has been followed by most

later writers, with the Cunarus Mons of Servius

M Aen. x. 185). But Silius Italicus (viii. 517)

places the Horn Fiscklli's, a name much better

known, among the Vestini; and though this is op­

posed to the statement of Pliny that that mountain

('Stains the sources of the Xar, there seems much

reason to believe that Pliny lias here confounded the

Xarwith it* tributary the Velinus[NAit],whiih really

ru»is io a group closely connected with the (iron

Sajso, and that it was therefore tluit remarkable

mountain range which was known to the ancients as

Ibe Mum; Fiscellus.

The following towns are noticed by ancient writers

■ belonging to the Vestini, Pinna, now called

I icita di Wane, appears to have been the chief of

h ;»e which were situated on the eastern slope of the

.'juntaius. Lower down, and only a few miles from

be sea, was) Angi i • now Cieita S. Angela.

IrEiufux, at the mouth of the river of the same

ane, now Peteara, was the seaport of the Vestini,

ad, being the only one along this line of coast for

•ate distance, served also as that of the M.irrucini.

1 roe valley of the Atemos were: Pbltimnum

AKmedimia), about 14 miles S. of Aqvila; Aveia,

■ remains of which are still visible at f'oua, about

rmlea S. of Aqvila; and Pitinum, still called

'orrt di Pitino, about 2 miles E. of the same city,

hich most have immediately adjoined the territory

'Amiternom. Fi kconm u, the ruins of which

u still visible at Cicita di Bagno, a little to the

at Aqvila, though an important place in the

riy part of the middle ages, is not mentioned

r any writer before Paulus Diacouus (Hut.

<ing. ii- 20), and was certainly not a municipal

wn in the time of the Romans. Pun ki:si m

[.rationed only in the Tab. Pcut.) is of very nn-

rtain aite, but is supposed to have been near At-

tergio. Aqvila, the present capital of this district,

is a wholly modern city, having been founded by the

emperor Frederic II. in the 13tb century, when its

population was gathered together from the surround­

ing towns of Amiternum, Aveia, Furcnnium, &c,

the complete desolation of which apparently dates

from this period. Ai'fina, which according to

Pliny (iii. 12. a. 17) was in his time united for

municipal purposes with Peltuinum, still retains

the name of Ofena, Ct tina and Cingiua, two

towns of the Vestini mentioned by Livy (viii. 29),

are wholly unknown, and the sitea assigned to them

by Romanelli, at Cieita Aquana and Cieita Httenga

respectively, are merely conjectural.

The topography of the Vestini is specially illus­

trated in the work of Giovenazzi (Delia Citta d*

Ateja nei Yettini, 4to. Roma, 1773), as well as by

Romanelli (vol. iii. pp. 241—284). [E. H. B.]

VESUBIA'XI, a people mentioned in the inscrip­

tion of the arch of Suss. Tbe resemblance of name

has led geographers to place the Vesubiani in a

valley through which runs a torrent called Vesubia,

which falls into the Var. The Esubiani, who are

mentioned in the inscription of the Trophy of the

Alps (Pliny, iii. 2n) seem to be the same as the

Vesubiani, for the only difference is a V. But

D'Anvillo places the Esubiani on the Ubaye and the

Vbayette, which two streams unite above Bane-

lonette in the department of BauetAlptt. [G. L.]

VESULUS MONS (Monte Vito), one of the most

lofty summits of the Alps, which, from its prominent

position near the plains of Italy, and its great su­

periority in height over any of the neighbouring

peaks, is one of the most conspicuous mountains of

the whole Alpine range as viewed from the Italian

side. Hence it is one of the very few individual

summits of the Alps of which the ancient name can

be identified with certainty. It is mentioned by

both Pliny and Mela as containing the sources of tbe

Padus; and the forner adds that it was the highest

summit of the Alps, which is a mistake, but not an

unnatural one, considering its really great elevation

(12,581) feet) and its comparatively isolated posi­

tion. (Plin. iii. 16. s. 20; Mela, ii. 4. § 4.) Virgil

also mentions the forests of "the pine-clad Vesu-

lus" as affording shelter to numerous wild boars

of the largest size. (Virg. Aen. x. 708 ; Serv.

ad tie.) [E. H. B.]

VESUXXA (OieVowa), according to Ptolemy

(ii. 7. § 12) the capital of the Petrocorii, a people

of Aquitania. In inscriptions the name is written

Vesunna. The place occurs in the Itins., and its

position is Perigueuz, in the old province of Perigord,

which name as well as I'erigveux is a memorial of

the name of the people, Petrocorii. But it is said

that the remains of the old town are still called La

Ye'sone. Perigueuz is on the I He, a branch of the

Dordogne, and it is the capital of the department of

Dordogne.

There is no Roman city in France of which we

know so little that contains so many remains as

Periguevx. Foundations of ancient buildings, mo­

saics, statues, and ruins of edifices show its former

magnitude. The tour de Vetone, a round building

constructed of small stones and of rough materials,

is supposed to hare been tbe cells of a temple, or a

tomb, as some conjecture. It is about 200 feet

in circumference. There were seven bridges at

Vesunna, four of which have been repaired or re­

built. There are some remains of an amphitheatre

of large dimensions. Several aqueducts supplied the

4 H 2

