MUTINA. MUZ A. 379

the city and its territory had begun to feel severely

the calamities that were pressing upon the whole of

this fertile and once flourishing tract of country.

In a. d. 377, the remains of the conquered tribe of

the Taifali were settled, by order of the emperor

Gratianos, in the country around Mutina, Kegiuin,

ami Parma (Amm. Marc xxxi. 9. § 4)—a plain

indication that the population was already deficient;

and St. Ambrose, writing not long after the same

dire, describes Mutina, Kcgium, and the other cities

along the Aemilian Way, as in a state of ruin and

decay, while their territories were uncultivated and

desolate. (Ambros. Ep. 39.) The same district

ajain suffered severely in A.D. 452, from the ravages

of Attila, who laid waste all the cities of Aemilin

with fire and sword. (Jliit. Miscell. xv. p. 549.)

They, however, survived all these calamities, from

which, nevertheless, Mutina appears to have suffered

more severely than its neighbours. Under the

Lombard kings, it became the frontier city of their

dominions towards the Exarchate; and though taker.

by the Greek emperor Manricius in 590, it was

again annexed by Agilulphus to the Lombard king­

dom of Italy. (Muratori, Antiq. Ital. vol. i. p. 63.)

At this period it feil into a state of great decay.

P. Diaconus, who mentions Bononia, Panna, and

Keginm as wealthy and flourishing cities, does not

even notice the name of Mutina (//»<. Lang. ii. 18);

and a writer of the 10th century draws a lament­

able picture of the condition to which it was re­

duced. The numerous streams which irrigated its

territory having been then neglected, inundated the

whole surrounding tracts; and the site of the city

had become in great part a mere morass, in which

the rains that attested its ancient grandeur, were

half buried in the mud and water. (Murat Ant.

voL ii. pp. 154, 155.)

At a later period of the middle ages, Modena

train rose to prosperity, and became, as it has ever

since continued, a flourishing and opulent city.

Bat the truth of the description above cited is con­

firmed by the fact, that the remains of the ancient

city are wholly buried under the accumulations of

alluvial soil on which the buildings of the modern

city are founded, and are only brought to light from

time to time by excavations. (Murat. /. c.) Large

portions of the ruins were also employed at various

periods, in the construction of the cathedral and

other churches; and no remains of ancient buildings

are now extant But a valuable collection of sar­

cophagi and inscriptions, discovered at various

periods on the site of the modern city, is preserved

in the museum. These have been fully illustrated

by Cavedoni in his Antichi ilarmi Malcneri (8vo.

Modena, 1828), in which work the facts known

concerning the ancient history of the city are well

brought together.

Modems is situated between the river Secchia,

which flows about 3 miles to the W. of the city,

and the I'anaro, about the same distance on the E.

The latter is unquestionably the ancient Scixtknna,

a name which it still retains in the npper part of its

emrse. The Secckin is probably the Gabcllus of

Pliny; but seems to have been also known in ancient

times as the Secia; for the Jerusalem Itinerary

marks a station called Pons Secies, 5 miles from

Mutina. where the Aemilian Way crossed this river.

(/tm. Hier. p. 616.) The Apennines begin to rise

about 10 miles to the S. of the city; and the ancient

territory of Mutina seems to have included a con­

siderable extent of these mountains, as Pliny notices

a prodigy which occurred " in agro Mutinensi,*

when two mountains were dashed against one

another with great violence, so that they appeared

to recoil again from the shock. (Plin. ii. 83. b. 85.)

This phenomenon, which occurred in b. c. 91

was doubtless the result of an earthquake, and not,

as has been sometimes supposed, of a volcanic out­

break. [E. H. B.]

MUTUSCAE. [TitEBiu,A Mltusca.]

MUTYCA. [Motyca.]

MUZA (MA^a, Arriun; Muwa and Mnu'iTa ifx-rra-

plov, Ptol.), an important mercantile town on the

Arabian coast of the Red Sea, not far north of the

Straits of Bab-el- Mantleb, in the country of Elisari:

placed by Ptolemy in long. 74° 30', lttt. 14°; or 30'

west, and 2° north of Ocelis ('OmjAw iniroplov)

close to the straits. (Ptol. vii. 15. p. 152.) He states

that its longest day is 12 J hours, that it is 1' east of

Alexandria, and within the tropics (viii. Tab. vi. Asiae,

p. 241); Pliny (vi. 23) names Musa as the third

port of Arabia Felix u quern Indies navigatio non petit)

nee nisi turis odorumque Arabicorum mercatores."

The author of the l'eripbu frequently alludes to it,

and gives a full account of it audits trade. He de­

scribes it as situated in the southernmost gulf of this

coast, a regular mart; inhabited altogether by Arab

mariners and merchants, distant about 12,000 sta­

dia from Berenice to the south, and 300 north

of the straits. (Vincent, Periplut, p. 296. n. 100:

Gosselin, Jticherches. tfc. tome ii. pp. 265, 266.)

It was not only an emporium of Indian merchan­

dise— a manifest contradiction of Pliny's state­

ment already cited—but bad an export trade of its

own. It was distant three days' journey from the

city of Save (2aujj), which was situated inland, in

the country of Maphoritis. It had no proper harbour,

but a good roadstead, and a sandy anchorage. Its

principal import trade was in fine and common pur­

ple cloth; Arab dresses with sleeves—probably the

kemit — some plain and common, others embroidered

with needlework and in gold; saffron; an aroma­

tic plant, named cyperus (icuVfoor); fine linen;

long robes—the abiti; quilts; striped girdles ; per­

fumes of a middling quality; specie in abundance;

and small quantities of wine and grain, for the

country grew but little wheat, and more wine. To

the king and tyrant were given horses, pack-mules ,

vessels of silver and brass, and costly raiment. Be­

sides the above named articles of merchandise, which

were chiefly supplied to its markets from Adule, on

the opposite coast, the great emporium of African

produce [Adule], Musa exported a precious myrrh

cf native growth, an aromatic gum, which tli6 author

names otokt^ ageiptiivaia, and a white marble or

alabaster (A0700S). (Arrian, Peripl. ap. Jlndton.

Oetiffr. Atin. vol. i. pp. 13, 14.) Vessels from this

part visited all the principal mercantile towns of the

south coast of Arabia. Bochart's identification of this

Musa with the Mesha mentioned by Moses, as one

extreme point of the Joktanite Arabs,— Sepliar being

the other (Gen. x. 30),—is thought by Mr. Eorster

to be untenable, on account of the narrow limits to

which it would confine this laree and important

race; for the site of Sepliar is clearly ascertained.

[Maphokitae; Sai'Mouitae.] (Otogr.'jif Arabia,

vol. i. pp. 93, 94.) M. Gosselin (Richerchtt, cfe.

tome ii. p. 89) asserts that this once most cclc*

brated and frequented port of l'enien is now more

than six leagues from the sea, and is replaced as a port

by.l/oM«,thc foundatiuii of which dates back no more

than 400 years (Niebuhr, Voyage en Arable,

