1110

TAUMCA CHEKSONESUS.

tain oil 3. The NW. portion of the low coun­

try, or that which would lie to the W. of a line

drawn from the isthmus to the mouth of the river

Alma, consists of a sandy soil interspersed with

salt lakes, an evidence that it was at one time

covered by the sea (Pallas, lb. p. G05, Sec); but

the E. and S. part baa a fertile mould. The moun­

tain chain (Taurici Monies) begins to rise towards

the centre of the peninsula, gently at first on the N.,

but increasing in height as the chain approaches the

sea, into which it sinks steeply and abruptly. Hence

the cox^t at this part presents huge elitfs and preci­

pices, and the sea is so deep that the lead often

iinds no bottom at the distance of a mile or two

from the shore. From these mountains, which ex­

tend from Symbolon, or Balaclava, on the \V\, to

Theodoaia, or Caffa, on the E., many bold promon­

tories are projected into the sea, enduing between

them deep and warm valleys open to the S., and

sheltered from the N. wind, where the olive and vine

ilourish, the apricot and almond ripen, and the

laurel creeps among the dark and frowning cliffs.

The most remarkable moon taint of tiiis chain are

that anciently called the Cimmerium at the N.

extremity, and the Trapezus at the S. (Strab.

vii. p. ;j(K>.) The former, which is said to have

derived its name from the Cimmerians, once do­

minant in the Bosporus, is now called Agh'trmlich-

Ihujhi. It lies nearly in the centre of the penin­

sula, to the NW. of the ancient Theodosia, and

near the town of Eski-AVim, or Obi Crim. Some

writers, however, identify Cimmerium with Mount

Opouk. on the S. coast of the peninsula of Ktrtsch.

(Ki.hler, Mini, de FA cad. de St. Peteisb. 1824, p.

640, sei|. ; Dubois de Montperreux, Voyages, ifc.

v. p. 253, acq.) But Trapezus is by far the

highest mountain of Tauricu. Kohl estimates its

height at 5000 German feet (Keintn M Sudruts-

land, i. p. 204); other authorities, make it rather ,

less, or 4740 feet. (Neumann, Die Hellenen vn \

Stytlunlande, p. 448.) According to Mr. Seymour,

it is 5125 English feet high. (Kitssia on the

lihwk Sea, p. 146.) Its form justifies its

ancient name, and is said to resemble that of the

Tabic Mountain at the Cape of Good Hope (Kohl,

lb.). A good idea of it may be obtained from the

vignette in Pallas (ii. p. 196). As it stands some­

what isolated from the rest of the chain, it pre­

sents a very striking and remarkable object, es­

pecially from the sea. At present it is called

Tchatyr-Ihvjh, or the Tent Mountain. The other

mountains seldom exceed 1200 feet. Their geo­

logical structure presents many striking deviations

from the usual arrangement, especially in the ab­

sence of granite. These anomalies are fully

desciibed by Pallai in his second volume of

travels. That part of Taurica which lay to the

E. of them was vailed the Hugged, or Kocky, Cher-

sonesus (jp-nKi-n, Herod. I. c.) It is in these moun­

tains that the rivers which water the peninsula

hare their sources, none of which, however, are con­

siderable. They flow principally from the northern

hide, from which they descend in picturesque cas­

cades. Only two are mentioned by the ancients, the

Thapsil and the Istiianus. At present the most

fertile districts of Taurica are the calcareous valleys

among the mountains, which, though often covered

with only a thin layer of mould, produce excellent

wheat. The nature of the country, however, does

not now correspond with the descriptions of the an­

cients. Strabo(/. c.) praises its fertility in produc-

TAURICA CFIEESOXfcTS.

ing corn, especially in that part whkb ties hmm

Panticnpaemn (Ke.rUch) and Tbtgdoei*

which at present is a desolate and mawtoaciartna*.

But this may probably be accounted for W U* phy­

sical and poliiual revolutions which tbe cocEr* a»

undergone. Taurica yielded a largetribeti e!*aal

to Mithridatcs Eupator, King of Bosform. la*

sovereign took much interest in pr-flwriar 2*a

tivution of the country, especially by the f

trees; but all his care to rear the laarel J

myrtle in the neighbourhood of Pinikapm* »■

to have been vain, though other trees pw f

which required a mild temperature. (Fan. I

59.) Wine was produced in abundance, m *l

present day, and the custom mentioned WS

(p. 307), of covering the vines with esrtk i"

the winter, is still observed, though Faliaa c

it unnecessary (loyoye*, <fc. ii. p. 444.)

The interest connected with the aaoeat anfcffl

the Tanric Chersonese is chiefly derrreitnc'^'i

ritime settlements of the Greeks, and <nr»

thus principally directed to the coasts. All

of the barbarous people who inhabited the ]

at the time when these settlements *

given in a separate article [Tauw}.

like those of the Euxine in general, weree

by the Milesiaus, who planted eonx f

Dies upon it. Besides these we find a Itarual

established near the site of the prej*nt .

and, if we may believe Aeschines {contra i

141, sq.). the Athenians once possessed the l

Nymphaeon on the Cimmerian Bosporus, ■'

cording to him, was betrayeU to the f

by Gvlon, the maternal grandfather of I

(Cf« Crateros in i! i; :i' ■ ■ $. e. Nsj

interior of the peninsula was bat little i

ancients, and we shall therefore best <

connection with it by taking a sorrey i

We shall begin on the XYY. side, aft

Carcina or Tamyraca, which has been i

scribed [Cakcuca; Tamvraca]. Fn

the peninsula stretches to its most i

Cape Tardtan, which presents some kafjk 1

but to the S. of TarcJ$an the coat tnl

dead level as far as the river Aim*, w I

which it again begins to rise in high chaa.

\V. coast, however, presents no place of

ancient history till we come to its extra

point, where a bold plateaa of hu'.s

westerly direction into the sea. On

tract is divided fiom the rest of tfae I

deep and broad valley, into which it

declivities. The harbour of SrbaAy^ t*

of' Aktiar) on the N., which bites into tat 1

about 4 miles in a SE. direction, and

claca on the S. coast of the ]

up towards the N.. furm an

breadth, according to Strabo (p. 30$ \ <

or 5 miles. This measurement

Clarke (Trac. ii. p. 219), who,how»rw,

to have been guided by his eye; far

rather more, or about 6 nnJes. The S. <

little peninsula formed by this

several promontories and tmall b*ys, i

from 500 to 700 feet in height

So barren a spot presented;

Milesians, the chief colonisers of the J

more hardy race of emigrants, fnam that 1

of Ueracleia iu Pontus, found a ne

and founded there the town of Ch

/. c). We learn from Pliny (iv. 12. v S*> |

