270 HARCIAKOPOLIS, MARATHUS.

seized what they considered a favourable opportunity

for the dost ruction of the people of Marathus, sent

privately to Ammonius, prime minister of Alexander

IS.das, the king of Syria, and bribed him with the

offer of 300 talents to deliver up Marathus to them.

The unfortunate inhabitants of the devoted city

attempted in vain to appease their enemies. The

Aradians violaled the common laws of suppliants,

broke the very ancient images of the local deities,

—which the Maratheni had brought to add solemnity

to their embassy,—stoned the ambassadors, and cast

tbcm into prison: according to another account, they

murdered some, and forged letters in their names,

which they sealed with their seals, promising suc­

cour to Marathus, with a view uf introducing their

troops into the city under this pretence. But dis­

covering that the citizens of Marathus were informed

of their dfcign, they desisted from the attempt.

The facts of its final subjugation to Aradus are not

preserved. Pliny (v. 20) places Marathus opposite

to the island of Aradus, which he says was 200

passus (= 1000 Roman feet) from the coast. Dio-

dorus (/. c.) states the distance between Aradus and

Marathus to be 8 stadia; which need not be incon­

sistent with the statement of Pliny, as the latter

may be supposed to measure to the point on the

mainland nearest to Aradus, the former the distance

between that island and the town of Marathus. The

fact, however, is, that even the statement of Diodorus

is too short fur the nearest point on the coast; for

this island is, according to Maundrell (March 7, p.

19), "about a league distant from the shore." And

Pococke, who crossed the strait, says "it is

reckoned to be about two miles from the continent.

(Okvrrrations on Syrui, p. 201.) The 20 stadia of

Strabo is therefore much more correct than either of

the other authorities. He says that the island lay

off an exposed coast (pax.ivSovs Kai aKtutvov),

between it* port (Caranus Ugc Carnos) and Marathus:

and what was the respective situation oi these towns

he intimates in another passage, where, reckoning

from the north, he enumerates Balaiiaca, Carnos,

Enydra, Marathus. Pococke takes Tortosa to be

"without doubt Caranus (Carnos) the port of

Aradus on the continent;" and as this is two miles

north or Aradus, he properly looks for Marathus to

the south, — identifying Enydra with Ein-eUllue

(the Serpent's Fountain), "directly opposite to

Aradus (p. 203), and suggesting that some ruins

which he observed on a raised ground, at the northern

extremity of a plain, about 7 miles south of

Tortosa, "might possibly be Marathus" (p. 204).

These conjectures may be admitted with some

slight modifications. Thus, e. g., instead of iden­

tifying Tortosa with Carnos, this naval arsenal of the

Arvadites must be placed about 2£ miles north of

Tortosa, where a la:e traveller has discovered "ex­

tensive ruins, called by the Arab peasants Carnoon,

— the site, doubtless, of the Carnos or Caranus of

the ancients. The people from Arvad still quarry

stones from these ruins; and below it, on the north,

is a small harbour, which appears to have been forti­

fied like that of Tortosa." ( luoinpson, in Bibliotfteca

Sacra, vol. v. p. 254.) A fresh-water spring in the

sea, is mentioned by Strabo; and a mile to the

south, between Carnoos and Tortosa, "a few

rods from the shore, an immense fountain, called

'Ain Ibrahim (Abraham's fountain); boil* up from

the bottom." Tortosa, then, will be, as many me­

diaeval writers maintained. Antaradus, which 'Aiabic

geographers write An tart Us aud AuUr»u> ; wheutc-

the common Arabic name Tartu*, in Italian Torkm"

(I.e. p.247, n. 1). 'Ain-el-f/h/th, written by Pococke

Ein-el-IIye, is certainly the Enydra of Strabo; the

geographer, or his informant, having in this, u in so

many other instances, retained the finrt half of tie

native name, and translated the latter half. — f'n

being the usual Greek and Latin equivalent for tbe

Semetic 'Ayn ^fountain, and the hydra a sufficiently

close representative of the Semetic Hiyeh=serprmL

South of this fountain are very extensive quarries, Me

or six miles to the south of Titrtosa. "This n-i,*h ■

bourhood is called by the Arabs Amrttd «r ManorH

Amreet' the fane of Amreet.' This name tb»* Greeks

probably changed into Marathus, and the old vault*.

foundations, sarcophagi, &c, near 'Ain-tl~llfyrk

(Serpent's Fountain), may mark the precipe locality

of ancient Marathus." (Thompson, L c. p. 250.)

Pococke describes here a rock-hewn temj4e, and

monolithic house and chambers; besides a kind of

semicircle, which he thinks t4might serve for some

sports to divert the people of Aradus and Ant and as,

or of the ancient Marathus, if that was near. It was

probably a circus" (p. 203).

It wits the more necessary to identify tliese sites,

as D'Auville placed the ancient Marathus at the

modern Maraliah, which is, doubtless, tlte repre­

sentative of " Mutatio Maraccas" of th* JerusataR

Itinerary, on the confines of Syria and Ph«ntce,

13 M. P. south of Balaneas (now Baneasy, and 10

M.P. north of Antaradus: and this error is per­

petuated in Arrowsmiths map. [G. W.J

MARATHUS (VaapaBos). 1. A small town in

Phocis, near Antkyra, mentioned only by Strabo

(ix. p. 423). Perhaps represented by tbe remains

at SiaViiro-l-afkhio. (Leake, Northern Greet*,

vol. ii. p. 549.)

2. A town of Acamania, of unknown site, men­

tioned only by Stephanus H. (*. v.)

MARATHUSA,an inland city of Cretr, mentioned'

by Pliuy (iv. 12; coin p. Tzschucke, ad Pomp. AfeL

ii. 7. § 13; Hock, Kreta, vol L p. 434.) [E.B.J.]

MARATHUSSA (Mopdffowre-a), a wnall island

of the Aegaean sea, off the coast of Ionia, n«r

Clazomenae, (Time. viii. 31 ; Plin. v. 31. s. 38.)

MARCI, a place mentioned in the Not. Imp. astsa

tbe Saxon shore, and as a station of some Dalmatian

cavalry under the command of tbe general «t Betgica

Secunda. D'Anville supposes, with I>e Valub. tliat

it may be Mark between Calais and Gruvtlmc*:

but the site is uncertain. [G. L.J

MARCIAK. [Gallaecia, p. 934. b.]

MARCIA'NA SILVA, a mountain forest hi tbe

south-west of Gennany, probably the whole or a

portion of what is now called the Black Ftrrewi

(Amm. Marc xxi. 8; Tab. Peuting.) Tbe origin

of the name is not known. Oliver regarding Marxian*

as a corruption of sclitcarz, and others con:>ectin£

it with marsh and march, which is still tu*d m tut)

Black Forest as a name for a moor. [L. &.]

MARCIAXO'POLIS (Maawiavova-oAit. Pronop.

de Aed. iv. 7), a city of Moesia, 18 M. P. from

0dessus( Varna) (Itin. Anton,;Peut.Tab.\ Hfcrorl.),

which derived its luune from Marriana, *i-urt of

Trajan. (Amm. Mare, xxvii.6. § 13; Joruand. tU

Htb. Get 16.) Claudius IL signally defeated th«

Goths in several battles near this town. (TmbrU.

Poll. C7at«l9;Zozim. i. 42.) Gibbon (c.xxvi; even p.

Le Beau, Bos Empire, vol. iv. p. 106; Green wwj,

Uisturu of Oie Gtrmans, London, 1836b p> 38J;

Art de ler. Us Dates, vuL L p. 33S) ha* I'M tsm

story uf the accidental quarrel between the Vi^vih

