780 TtOMA. ROMA.

compass, but these are trifles. The correct bearings

are given in Carina's large plan and in Becker's

map, and arc wholly at variance with those laid

down by Mommsen. Again, it is not to be imagined

that Opimitu would have built up his temple of

Concord immediately in front of the ancient curia,

thus screening it entirely from the view of the forum

and comitiuin; a state in which it must have re­

mained for nearly half a century, according to

the hypothesis of Mommsen. Another decisive

refutation of Momra^en's view is that the Basilica

Portia, as we shall sec further on. was situated on

the forum close by the curia, whilst according to

Mommsen the two buildings were separated by a

considerable interval. We hold it, therefore, to be

quite imjKKsible that the curia could have stood

where Mommsen places it; but at the same time we

confess our inability to give a satisfactory expla­

nation of the passage in I,ivy. A word, or several

words, seem to have dropped out, as is the case fre­

quently in the very same sentence, where the gaps

are marked in the editions with asterisks. Such a

corrupt sentence, therefore, does not suffice as au­

thority for so important a change, in the teeth of all

evidence to the contrary.

We shall only further observe that the preceding

passages of Varro and Pliny thus apptar, when

rightly interpreted, mutually to support and ex­

plain one another, and show the Graecostasis to have

stood to the W. of the curia, first from its prox-

imitv to the senaculum and temple of Concord, and

secondly, from the mid-day line falling between it

and the rostra. That the curia was considerably

raised apj«ars from the circumstance that Turquin

the Proad nearly ra-ised the death of Servius Tullius

by hurling him down the steps in front of it, which

led to the comitiuin. (L)ionys. iv. 38; Liv. i. 48.)

It was an inaugurated temple in order that the

senate might huld their meetings in it, but not a

sacred one. (Liv. i. 30; Varr./. c.) In the reign

of Tullus the forum was adorned with the tro­

phy called. Pila IIokatiana, consisting of the

spoils won from the Curiatii; but where it stood

cannot be determined. (Dionys. iii. '22; Liv. i. 26.)

The Sknaculum referred to in the preceding ac­

count apjiears to have been a raised and open area,

adjoining the Graecostasis and curia, on which the

senators were accustomed to assemble before they

entered the curia in order to deliberate. Thus

Varro: "Senaculum vocatum ubi senatus aut ubi

seniores consisterent: dictum ut Gerusia apud

Graecos" (v. § 156, Mull.). Valerius Maximus

gives a still more explicit account: "Senatus assi-

duam stationem eo loci peragebat qui hodieque

Senaculum appellator: nec exspectahat ut edicto

coutraheretur, sed hide citatus protinus in Curiam

vc iiebat " (ii. 2. ij 6). Festufl mentions that there

were three Senacula in all; namely, besides the one

alluded to, another near the Porta Capena, ami a

third by the temple of Bellona, in the Campus Mar-

tius. But as his account is in some ropects con­

tradictory of the two preceding authorities, we shall

here inseit it: ** Senacula tria fuisse Komae, in

qui bus senatus haheii solitus sit, memoriae prodidit

Nicostratus in libro qui inscribitur de senatu ha-

bendo: unum, ubi nunc est aedis Concordiae inter

Capitolium et Forum; in quo solebant magi*tratus

I>. T. cum Senioribus deliberare; alterum ad por-

tam Capenam; terlium, citra aedem Bollonae, in

quo exterarum nation tun legatis, quos in nrbein ad-

mittere nolebant, senatus dabatur" (p. 347, Mull.).

Here the senaculam is represented, twt is a pint

in which the senate assembled prerkmsly to deawv

ration, but as one in which it actually delHeratst,

It is impossible, however, that this couid bait baa

so. For in that case what would have bees tl*a*

of the curia? in which the senate is mnlaia%

representeil as assembling, except in cam ef

they held their sittings in some other temple,

sides we have no accounts of the aenaeiilaal

an inaugurated place, without which it «ceJi

been unlawful for the senate to deliberate i

Nicostratus therefore, who, from bis Dame, sea

have been a Greek, probably confounded ibe i

cula with the curia, and other temples in wha1

senate assembled; and at all events his an

cannot be set against the more probable onerf'

and Valerius Maximus. There is, bower*

part in the account of Festos, which MM 1

the matter in a different point of view. The 1

u in quo swlebant magistratus D.T. nan sesj

deliberare" seem to point to the senacuJoa i

a place where the senators deliberated amoar

selves, but where they conferred with iht 1

trates; such magistrates we may su^p>»r V

not entitled to enter the curia. Such »e

tribunes of the people, who, during the deibe

of the senate, took their seats before the elsas

of the curia; yet as they had to examine ta

the decrees of the Fathers l»efore they beam

we may easily imagine that it wag somefia

cessary for the tribunes and senators so

together, and these conferences may *w

place at the senaculum (" Tribunis plefcis intt

riam non licebat: ante valvas autem pooS

selliis, decreta patrum attentissima can

nabant; ut, si qua ex eis i i .t--ratal

sine rent. Itaque veteribus senatus cornel

litera subscribi solebat: eaqae nota saeaafc

ita tribunos qttoque censuisse/* VaL Max.a.

In this manner the senacula would bare ■

two purjKiscs; as places in which the secal

previously to assembling in the curia, and ■

of neutral ground for conferences with the;

magistrates.

With regard to the precise situation of tJ

culum belonging to the Curia Hoatiiia. we CM

assume, with Mommsen, that it occupied

which the temple of Concord was afterwards I

built; nor do the words of Varro and F<

"Senaculum ubi aedis Concordiae "—seen

quire so very rigorous an mterprefatMB.

sufficient if it adjoined the temple; though at I

improbable that the latter may hare

upon some part of its area. After the 1

erected there still appears to hare been a I

space in front of it, part of the ancient I

but which now seems to have obtained the l

"Area Concordiae." Ita identity with tl

culum apjiears from its adjoining the Vulcan

the latter: *' In area Vulcani et Caward)

guinem pluit." (Liv. zl. 19.) ■ In arte

per biduum, in area Concordiae totidero dad

guinem pluit." (Jul. Obseq. 59.) The a

Concord became a very usual place for as

of the senate, as appears front many

in ancient authors. (Cic. PkiL ia. J;

Ah r. 6, &c.) From the area a flight

led up to the vestibule of the temple:

Komani) qui frequentissimt in grsklihca I

at eternal. (Cic. PhiL viii. 8.) Acoordiaf I

cixibius the temple of Saturn aiso had a i

