PALMYKA. 639 PAMPHIA.

bp granted a pardon, with permission to

sad inhabit their ruined city, and especially

wed much solicitude for the restoration of the

7-xrkof the Sun. But the effects of the blow

wmn fan heavy to be retrieved. From this period

kit 273) Palmyra gradually dwindled into an

nacBcticaat town, and at length became only a

>4w of refuge for a few families of wandering

It •ermi indeed for some years as a Roman

—■. att ttatioo; and Diocletian partially restored

w Wits buildings, as appears from an inscription

r—nsrf by Wood. About the year 400 the first

u* --aii legiua was quartered there (Xot. Imp.); and

tells us that it was fortified by Justinian

** I - L a. 2). But this is the last that we hear of  
aizjyra under the Romans; and the sinking for-

wm «** their empire probably soon led them to

". * remains of the buildings of Palmyra are

nrfr of the Corinthian order, which was the

r=-+ni* style of architecture during the two or

w* centuries which preceded Diocletian; whence

i aiy infer that the splendour which it once ex-

hhri wtt ctivtAf owing to Odenathus and Zenobia.

r iiut centuries even the site of Palmyra re-

unknown except to the roving Arabs

whose magnificent accounts of its ruins

v"J» exerted the cariosity of the English mer­

as* scuied Mt Ahrppo. Under the auspices of the

■ail Coopmny. ao expedition started in 1678 for

> yirp—t of exploring them; but the persons who

■paved it vera robbed and ill-treated by the

ska. sad compelled to return without having ac-

RutLcd their object. In 1691 the expedition

with better success, and an account of

then made was published in the

of the Royal Suciety. (Sellers, Antiqui-

1*. '•:".) Subsequently Palmyra was

1751 by Woud and Dawkius, who pub-

reaulu of their jouniey in a large folio

«uh magnificent engravings. The account

(vol. iL) ss chiefly taken from this work,

the more recent descriptions may be men-

■J that of lrby and Mangles (Travels, ch. v.),

Palmyra in 1816. According to these

the plates of Wood and Dawkins have

than justice to the subject; and although

ptrw of Use rains from a distance, with their

|af 4xuiine; white columns extending between

pt nr» miles, and relieved by the contrast of

sand of the desert, is very striking, yet,

detail, they excite but little

^& Taken separately, not a single column or

ber is worthy of admiration. None

40 feet in height and 4 feet in

lad in the boa*ted avenue they arc little

3U sWt high. The remains of the Tem-

|fist deal Cunn the most magnificent object, and

nic order, relieve the monotony of the

atyle. These columns, which

m. aagfc and 4 fret in diameter, are fluted,

u Jt ur*ly three or four pieces of stone; and

• Lusossa were surmounted by brazen Ionic

Ta* ftVr—^ of the portico consists of 12

.jt. timt at the temple of Baalbcc, besides

„ ajT other point* of resemblance. On

UfWever. the ruins are far inferior to

SUaihec. At the time of Messrs. Irby and

the peristyle court of the Temple of

la *s» acrvpaed by the Arabian Tillage of

Iftr oat with ,ittm exception, and the Turkish

burial ground, the space was unencumbered, and

there was nothing to obstruct the researches of the

antiquary. In some places the linca of the streets

and the foundations of the houses were distinctly

visible. The sculptures are uniformly coarse and

bad; the stone is of a perishable description, and

scarcely deserves the name of marble. The sepul­

chres outside the walls formed perhaps the most

interesting part of the remains. These consist of

square towers, from three to five stories high, funn­

ing sepulchral chambers, with recesses for the recep­

tion of the bodies. In these tombs mummies and

mummy cloths are found, prepared very much after

the Egyptian manner; but ihere are no paintings,

and on the whole they are far from being so in­

teresting as the Egyptian sepulchres. There was a

sculptured tablet in bas-relief, with seven or eipht

figures standing and clothed in long robes, supposed

to represent priests. Several Greek and PaJmyrena

inscriptions, and two or three in Latin and Hebrew,

have been discovered at Palmyra. They will be

found in Wood's Ruins of Palmyra, and the fol­

lowing works may also be consulted: Bernard

and Smith, Inscriptiones Graecae Palmyrenontm,

Utrecht, 1698; Giorgi, De Inscriptionibus Palmjf

rents quae in Musaeo Capitolino adsetrantur

interpretaitdis Epistola, Rome, 1782; Barthe'leiny,

fn Mem de I Academic des Inter, torn. xxiv.; and

Swinton, in the Philosophical Transactions, roL

xlviii.

With regard to the general history and antiquities

of Palmyra, besides the works already cited in this

article, the following may be consulted: Seller,

Antiquities of Palmyra, London, 1696; Huntington

in the Philosophical Transactions, vol. xix. Koi.

217, 218; a Dissertation by Dr. Halley in the same

work; Gibbon's Decline and Fall. ch. si.; St. Mart.

Hist, de Palmyre, Paris, 1823; Addison's Damascus

and Palmyra; Richter, Wallfahrt; Cassas, Voyage

Pittoresque de la Syrie; Laborde, Voyage en Ori- nt;

&c [T.H.D.]

PALMYRE'NE (UaXtivpnvli, PtoL v. 15. § 24),

a district of Syria, so named after the city of Pal­

myra, and which extended S. from Chalybonitis into

the desert. (Cf. Pun. v. 24. a. 21.) [T.H.D.]

PALORUM PORTUS. [Maixus and Ma-

GAKSA.]

PALTTJS (ndAToj: Eth. naArn^s), a town of

Syria upon the coast, subject to the island of Aradut,

which was at no great distance from it. According

to some accounts Memnon was buried in the neigh-

bourhood of Paltus. Pococke places it at Soldo;

Shaw at the ruins at the mouth of the Melltck, 6

miles from Jebilee, the ancient Gabala. (Strab. xv.

pp. 728, 735; Ptol. v. 15. § 3; Cic. ad Fata. xii.

13; Plin. v. 20. s. 18; Mela, i. 12: Steph. 11 r.;

Pococke, vol. i. p. 199; Shaw, p. 324, Oxf. 1738.)

PAMBO'TIS LACUS. [Dodona, p. 784.]

PAMISL'S (naM«roi). 1. The chief river of

Messenia. [Sec Vol. IL pp. 341, 342.J

2. A river in Laconia, forming the ancient boun­

dary between Messenia and Laconia. (Strab- wit.

p. 361.) Strabo speaks of this river as near Leuc-

tram, but it flows into the sea at Pephnus, about 3

miles S. of Lemtrum. [Pephnus.]

3. A tributary of the Peneius in The&saly, pro­

bably the modern Bliuri or Pitiuri. (Herod, vii.

129; Plin. iv. 8. s. 15; Leake, Northern Greece,

vol. iv. pp. 512, 514.)

PA'MPHIA (Ilfui^ta), a village of Aetolia, on

the road from Metnpa to Thermum, and distant 30

