ROMA. 823 ROMA.

taied lit district to u >o embrace the western

:.toiiiT of the Oppius; whilst Urlichs, on the con-

1.7. coonned the Carinae entirely to that hill.

rgl. iii. part ii. p. 119, seq.) That the

iUs view is, at all events, partly erroneous,

a hardly admit of a question. Besides the pre-

h-t ptaoge of Festus, which clearly identifies

1 Cmuu* as part of the Oppius, there are other

«i ia sorieot writers which show that a portion at

* tf tie Jinrict so called lay on a height. Thus  
sons, speaking of the Tigillum Sororium, says

t it wa* situated in the lane which led down

m lit Carinae to the Vicus Cyprius (iVn 5'

*» mwt^c dMpovrt arru Kaplrris nam tois

> w Kswpjor tpx^fMyotf orewwov^ iii. 22).

•is Vsrro (£. i. v. § 48), in describing the

xl'i w f alley at the foot of the Oppius, says that

»t - sob niuro terreo Carinarum;" obviously in-

iLif that the latter place was on a height.

'ur, indeed, maintains that walls of earth or

m nie used in fortification only where the

ni *at lereL But a wall on a height was eer­

ily ia* usual mode of fortification in ancient

J; sad, as Mr. Bunbnry justly remarks {Clou.

a raL T. p. 222), the peculiar appellation of

tru temus" clearly distinguishes this wall

> • oonon *ggtr. Nor, as the Subura lay be-

I lie gsrge between Uie Eaquiline and Quirinal,

1 an to sse bow any murus tcrreus in the dis-

I of tat Cariuae could have been so situated as

»Rhja; the Subura, except upon the hill. The

w.ir WLtds of Varro (/. c.) are even perhaps

■Ti-re conclusive. He identifies the Subura

> lie I'sgai Suecusaiius, — the ancient name of

II inn; Seecusa, by an interchange of 4 and c,

lid Uidt it was thus named 14 quod snccurrit

■>:' where, whatever we may think of his

■mrj. it is plain that he regarded the Carinae

1 bt«nt- It may be added that the western

let the Oppius, where the church of S. Pietro

"mmli sow stands, bore the name of le Carre

u u the 16th century. (And. Fulvitu, de

List*.304; cf. Xiebuhr, Hist. i. p. 390, soq.)

ctxul therefore be doubted that the Carinae

«4 tat extremity of the Oppius; but how far

'-<trirt extended eastwards cannot be said. It

t»r» difficult question to determine whether

•( Um rslley lying at the western foot of the

sm bun toe name of Carinae. Its solution

**t«l with another question respecting the  
■f >bi Temple or Tau-Li s We know that this

f— »bieh was a considerable one, since assem-

4 !ae senate were sometimes held in it — lay

» Cmnae, and that it was built on the site of

a** of Sp. Cassias, which was confiscated

f.M down when that demagogue was con-

* V» design to make himself sovereign of Rome.  
1 i 41; Val. Max. vi. 3. § 1; Plin. xxxiv. 14.)

: mm took place B. c. 485 ; but the temple

w tetm to have been built till B.C. 2C9. Its

» firtarr determined by notices respecting the

* >< i'roper, which subsequently came into the

s of M. Antony, the situation of which is

11> bsvt been in the Carinae, and at the ssme

1 visa to the temple of Tellus: "Docuit (Le-

»! a Csnns. ad Telluris aedein, in qua regione

> cram doinru fiierat." (Suet. Ill Gramm. 15,

U. Ti. 15; VelL Pat. ii. 77; Aur. Vict. Kir.

M; Dm Cass, xlviii. 3*3.) And Servius says

■sly, though in some respects unintelligibly,

1 in Carinarum modum,

quae erant circa templuui Telluris " (ail Aen. viii.

361).

There is nothing in the preceding passages to

exclude the possibility of the Templum Telluris

having been on the summit of the hill ; since it is

not necessary to assume with Urlichs that it stood

on its very edge (Rim. Topogr. p. 117); in which

case, as there was an area attached to the temple,

its back front must have been turned towards the

road leading up to it from the valley, and the urea

have lain befure it on the summit of the hill - a dis­

position which does not appear very probable. Yet

there are some other circumstances tending to the in­

ference that the temple was situated in the valley.

Dionysius mentions it as being, not in the Carinae,

but on the road leading to the Carinae (Kara tt>

f*xl Kapiyas tptpovacw oSoV, viii. 79.) A curious

view, taken by Urlichs (ic.) of the construction of

M in this passage is one of the reasons which led

him to place the temple on the hill. lie thinks that

it must necessarily mean "up to :" but it might

just as well be said that it means " down to," in a

passage quoted a little while ago from the same

author respecting the situation of the Carinae and

the Vicus Cyprius. In both cases it simply means

"to." It will be perceived that Dionysius is here at

variance with the authorities before quoted respecting

the site of the temple. If the appellation of Carinae

extended over some part of the adjacent valley it is

possible tliat Dionysius, as a foreigner, might have

been unaware of that fact, and have attached the

name only to the more striking part of the district

which lay on the hill. And there is a passage in

Varro, a very obscure one indeed, from which it

might be inferred that part of the Ceroliensis, which

seems to have been the name of the valley between

the Caelian, the Esquiline, and the Velian ridge,

had likewise borne the name of Carinae (" Ceroliensis

a Carinarum junctu dictus Carinae, postea Cerolia,

quod hinc oritur caput Sac rue Viae," L.L. v. § 47).

These passages would seem to indicate that the tem­

ple of Tellus lay in the valley between S. Maria de*

Monti and the Tor de' Conti, where indeed we find

traces of the name : since the churches of S. Salca-

lore and of S. Pantaleone, the latter of which still

exists near the Via del Coloueo, bore in the middle

ages the epithet of " in Tellure." Passages are also

adduced from the Acttof the Martt/rt to show that

the temple of Tellus stood opposite to that of Pallas

in the Forum Transitorium. (" Clementianus prae-

cepit ei caput amputari ante templum in Tellure,

corpusque ejus prnjici ante Palladis aedem in lucom

supradictum," Act. S. Gordian.} Hence it seems

not improbable that the district of the Carinae, in

which the temple undoubtedly stood, may have ex­

tended over a considerable part of the valley; but

the passages relating to the subject are far from

being decisive ; anil the question is one of that kind

in which much may be said on both sides.

Two striking legends of early Koman history are

connected with the Esquiliue and its vicinity ; that

of the murder of Servius Tullius by his inhuman

daughter, and that of the Tigillum Sororium, or

typical yoke, by passing under which Horatius ex­

piated the murder of his sister. We have before re­

lated that Servius Tullius resided on the Esquiline,

and that he was the first to clear that hill and make

it habitable. It was on his return to his residence

on it, after bis ejection from the curia by his son-in-

law, Tarquinius Superbus, that he was murdered by

the hirelings of that usurper. Livy's account of the

3 G 4

