632 1 PISAK.

placed a little oast of Olympia, and its acropolis

probably occupied a height on the western side of

the rivulet of Minikn, near its junction with the

Alpbeius. Strabo {I.e.) says that it lay between

tlx; mountains Olympus and Ossa, which can only

have been heights on different sides of the river.

Sec its position marked in the map in Vol. II. p. 477.

(Leake, Morta, vol. ii. p. 21 1, Pelnponntsiaca,

p. 6; Mure, Tow in Greece, vol. ii. j>. 283; (Junius,

PtlitjKrmw.^ox, vol. ii. )>. 51.)

PISAE {riiVat, Strab. Pol.; Uiffffai, PtoL; Tiitraa,

Ljcophr.: Kth. Piaanus: Pita), an important city of

Ktruria, situated on the N. bank of the river Arena, a

IV; vv miles from its mouth. All an thorn agree in repre­

senting it as a very ancient city, hut the accounts

of its early history arc very contused and uncertain.

The identity of its name with that of the city of

Klis naturally led to the supposition that the one

was derived from the other; and hence the founda­

tion of the Italian Pisae was ascribed by some

authors to Peiops himself (PIin. iii. 5. s. 8), while

others assigned it to a body of settlers from the

Peloponneaian Pisa who had accompanied Nestor to

Troy, and on their return wandered to this part of

Italy. (Strab. v. p. 222; Serv. ad Am. x. 179.)

E|ieius, the reputed founder of Metapontuin, was,

according to some writers, that of Pisae also. (Serv.

c.) The Elean, or Alphean, origin of the city is

generally adopted by the Roman poets. (Virg. Aen.

x. 179; Claudian, B. Gild. 483; Rutil. Um. i. 565.)

Cata, however, followed a different tradition, and

represented the city as founded by the Etruscans

tinder Tarchon, though the site was previously pos­

sessed by a people called the Teutanes, who spoke

a Greek dialect. (Cato, np. Serv, I. c.) Virgil also

calls it distinctly an Etruscan city, though he de­

rives its more remote origin from Klis; and the tra­

dition reported by Cato seems to prove at least that

it was one of the cities of which the Etruscans

claimed to be the founders, and which must there-

lore have been at one period a genuine Etruscan

city. On the other hand, Dionysius mentions it

among 1 he cities founded or occupied by the IVIasgi

in conjunction with the Aborigines (Dionys. i. 20);

and there seems to be some reason to regard it as

one of the early Pelasgic settlements on the coast of

Ktruria, which fell at a later period under the power

of the Etruscans,

We know almost nothing of Pisae as an Etruscan

city, nor are there any remains of this period of its

history. Hut Strabo still found vestiges of its past

greatness, and the tradition of its foundation by

Tarchon seems to point to it as one of the principal

cities of Kiruria. Its inhabitants were trained to

arms by frequent contests with their neighbours the

I.igurians. while they appear to have been one of

the principal maritime powers among the Etruscans,

and, like most of their countrymen, combined the

pursuits of commerce and piracy. (Strab. v. p. 22.1.)

We have no account of the period at winch it be­

came a dependency of Rome; but the first historical

mention of its name is in b. c. 225, when the consul

C. Atilius landed there with two legions from Sar­

dinia, with which ho shortly after attacked and

defeated the Gaulish army near Telamon. (Pol. h.

27.) It is clear therefi re that Pisae was at this

time already in alliance with Home, and probably

on the same footing as the other dependent allies of

the republic. Its port seems to have been much

frequented, and became a favourite point of departure

for the Roman fleets and armies whose destination

was Gaul, Spain, or

thence that the cons

at the outbreak of t

21S). and thither aUM

that Hannibal bad air

iii. 43,56; Liv. xxi.3!

of the Romans with t

the importance of Pisa

town of the Roman po

quarters of the geoen

war. (Liv. xxxiii. 4

was not, however, exerr

incident to such a pi

suddenly attacked ar

40,000 Lignrians, an

the arrival of the cor

and on several other

waste its territory. 1

themselves invited the

in their territory, wfc

out, the colonists obta

43.) From this tim<

its colonial condition b

other " coloniae Lathui

by virtue of the Lex ,

but it seems to have

Augustus, as we find i

a celebrated inscriptio

honours paid by the m

to the deceased grant

L. Caesar. (OrelL It

termed "Colonia Obs

also gives it the title

and there seems no dr

one of the most fiouritl

.speaks of it as carryi

timber and marble froti

which were sent to Kr

building materials. I

tile, and produced th

siligo, as well as excel 1

PHn. xiv. 3. s. 4, xvnl

count of the fortunes «.

period of the Roman e

wars of Names it is

importance (Again. B

ages rose rapidly to tx

commercial cities of It;

There is no doubt t

the same site with tl

causes have produced

locality, that it would

site as described by t

of the modern and ai

That author (as well a

describes the ancient

tluence of the rivers

and distant only 20 st

(Strab. v. p. 222; Plii

565—5700 At the

Ii miles from the sea

flow into the Amo at j

to the sea, the two rfv

of 5 or 6 miles in widt

mutation of alluvial *

the sand heaped up b;

mains of the Etrusca

that all such, if they s

siderable depth by the

tiges of Roman antiqi

mean traces of baths, t

