THESSALONICA. THESSALONICA. 1171

■ten Capet Yardar and Kardburnu. On the edge

I this basin it the city, partly on the level shore

hi putiy on the »l«pe of a hill, in 40° 38' 47" N.

L, and 22° 57' 22" E. long. The present appear-

tce ti the city, as seen from the sea, is described

r Leake, Holland, and other travellers as very im­

am;. It rises in the form of a crescent up the

ilmiy, and is surrounded by lufty whitened walls

,th tuwers at intervals. On the K. and W. sides of

t city ravines ascend from the shore and converge

nrdt the highest point, on which is the citadel

timi 'Zvrmriyytar, like that of Constantinople. (A

v of Thessalonica from the sea is given by Cou­

rt). The port is still convenient for large ships,

J the anchorage in front of the town is good.

**x circumstances in the situation of Thessalonica  
l» evidently favourable for commanding the trade

Ita Macedonian sea. Its relations to the inland

Crieis wan equally advantageous. With one of the

I great levels of Macedonia, viz. the plain of the

ii w-flowing Axiua " (Horn. A ii. 849), to the N.

the range of Olympus, it was immediately con-

!fd. With the other, viz. the plain of the Stry-

i and Lake Cercinitis, it communicated by ft pass

as the neck of the Chalcistic peninsula. Thus

r-todouica became tlie chief station on the Roman

i Eoiatta, between the Hadriatic and the Hel-

Its distance from Pella, as given by the

cranes, ia 27 miles, and from Amphipolis (with

m.ediate stations; see Act. A post. xvii. 1) 67

■>. It ia still the chief centre of the trado of the

net It contains a population of 60,000, or

*>>, and (though Adrianople may possibly be  
»r) it ■ the most important town of European

try. next after Constantinople.

Name.—Two legendary names, which Thessa-

ca at said to have borne in early times, are

itbia (Zonar. Hut zii. 26) and Halia (Steph.

. r.), the Utter probably having reference to the

::ine petition of the town. During the first

»J of its authentic history, it was known under

• w of Tiikkma (**<cmi, Aesch.; 8«>fji), Herod.,

ryd.j Bipucu, Mai. Chronog. p. 190, ed. Bonn),

"ad, ia common with the designation of the gulf

•ncaicoa Sinus), from the hot salt-springs, which

:»and on various parts of this coast, and one

L ch especially is described by Pococke as being

Glance of 4 English miles from the modern

(Sao Seylax, p. 278, ed. Gail.) Three stories

old of tile origin of the name Thessalonica. The

(tad by far the most probable) is given by

M (rii. EpU. 10), who says that Therma was

it by Caiiearider, and called after bis wife

alimica, the daughter of Philip: the second is

in Steph. B. (#. r.), who says that its new name

i memorial of a victory obtained by Philip over

Lrisaliaju (see Const. Porphyrog. De Them. ii.

, ed Bonn): the third is in the Ehpn. llagn.

), where it ia stated that Philip himself gave the

in honour of his daughter. Whichever of

atia its is true, the new name of Thessalonica,

kj new eminence connected with the name, are

ctiy associated with the Macedonian period,

»>t at ail with the earlier passages of true

history. The name, thus given, became per-

Tbroogh the Roman and Byzantine pe­

ts remained unaltered. In the Middle Afces

liiana cave it the form of Salonichi or Saioniki,

is still frequent. In I^atin chronicles we find

nil. In German poems of the thirteenth cen-

br name appears, with a Teutonic termination,

as Salnek. The uneducated Greeks of the present

day call the place SaAoWin), the Turks Selanik.

8. Political and Military History.—

Thessalonica was a place of some importance, even

while it bore its earlier name of Tiikkma. Three

passages of chief interest may be mentioned in this

period of its history. Xerxes rested here on his

march, his land-forces being encamped on the plain

between Therma and the Axius, and his ships cruis­

ing about the Thermaic gulf; and it was the view

from hence of Olympus and Ossa which tempted

him to explore the course of the Peneius. (Herod,

vii. 128, seqq.) A short time (b. c. 421) before

the breaking ont of the Peloponnesian War, Therma

was occupied by the Athenians (Thncyd. i. 61);

but two years later it was given up to Perdiccaa

(Id. ii. 29.) The third mention of Therma is in

Aeschines (de Fait. Leg. p. 31, ed. Bekk ), where

it is spoken of ns one of the places taken by I'au-

sanias.

Tho true history of Tiif.ssai.onk a begins, as

we have implied above, with the decay of Greek

nationality. The earliest author who mentions it

under its new name is Polybius. It seems probable

that it was rebuilt in the same year (n. c. 315) with

Cassandreia, immediately after the fall of Pydna

and the death of Olympias. [Cassandkeia.] We

are told by Strabo (/. c.) that Cassander incorpo­

rated in his new city the population, not only of

Therma, but likewise of three smaller towns, vii.

Aeneia and Cissus (which are supposed to hare been

on tho eastern side of the gulf), and Chalastra

(which is said by Strabo (vii. F.pit. 9) to have been on

the further side of the Axius, whence Tafel (p. xxii.)

by some mistake infers that it lay between the Axius

and Therma). It does not appear that these earlier

cities were absolutely destroyed; nor indeed is it

certain that Therma lost its separate existence.

Pliny (L e.) seems to imply that a place bearing

this name was near Thessalonica; but the text is

probably corrupt.

As we approach the Roman period, Thessalonica

begins to be more and more mentioned. From Livy

(xliv. 10) this city would appear to have been the

great Macedonian naval station. It surrendered to

the Romans after the battle of Pydna (lb. xliv. 45),

and was made the capital of the second of the fonr

divisions of Macedonia (lb. xlr. 29). Afterwarils,

when the whole of Macedonia was reduced to one pro­

vince (Flor. ii. 14), Thessalonica was its most import­

ant city, and virtually its metropolis, though not so

called till a later period. [Macedonia.] Cicero,dur-

ing his exile, found a refuge here in the quaestor's

house (pro Plane. 41); and on his journeys to and

from his province of Cilicia he passed this way, and

wrote here several of his extant letters. During the

first Civil War Thessalonica was the head-quarters

of the Potnpeian party and the senate. (Dion Cast,

xli. 20.) During the second it took the side of

Octavius and Antonius (Pint. Brut. 46; Appian,

Ii. C. iv. 118), and reaped the advantage of this

course by being made a free city. (See Plin. /. c.)

It is possible that the word lAeaeVpiar, with the

head of Octaria, on some of the coins of Thes­

salonica, has refcrenco to this circumstance (see

EckheL ii. p. 79); and some writers see in the

Vardtir gate, mentioned below, a monument of the

victory over Brutus and Cassius.

Even before the close of the Republic Thes­

salonica was a city of great importance, in eon-

sequence of its position on the line of communication

4 r 2

