MYCENAE. ."si MYCENAE

geUn i I.iin. which spread out under its walls towards

the west and south; and secondly the most import-

juit roads from the Corinthian gulf, the roads from

Fhlius, Xemea, Cleonae, and Corinth, unite in the

mountains above Mycenae, and pass under the height

upon which the city stands. It was said to hare

been built by Perseus (Strab. viii. p. 377; Paus. ii.

15. § 4, ii. 16. § 3), and its massive walls were be­

lieved to have been the work of the Cyclopes. Hence

Euripides calls Mycenae TriKifffia nepo~ews, KvkKw-

nivv ruvor xff^v (Iphig- in A "1. 1500). It was

the favourite residence of the Pelopidae, and under

Agamemnon was regarded as the first city in Greece.

Hence it is called ito\vxpv<ros by Homer (/£ vii. 180,

xi. 46), who also gives it the epithets of eupvdyvia

(A iv. 52) and tvicrifieyov irroAlfflpov {11. ii. 569).

Its greatness belongs only to the heroic age, and it

ceased to be a place of importance after the return of

the Heracleidae and the settlement of the Dorians in

Argos, which then became the first city in the plain.

Mycenae, howerer, maintained its independence, and

sent some of its citizens to the assistance of the

Greeks against the host of Xerxes, although the Ar-

gives kept aloof from the common cause. Eighty

Mycenaeans were present at Thermopylae (Herod,

vii. 202), and 400 of their citizens and of the Tiryn-

thians fought at Plataeae (Herod, ix. 28). In

B.C 468, the Dorians of Argos, resolving to bring

the whole district under their sway, laid siege to

Mycenae; but the massive walls resisted all their

attacks, and they were obliged to have recourse to

a blockade. Famine at length compelled the inha­

bitants to abandon the city; more than half of them

took refuge in Macedonia, and the remainder in Cle­

onae and Ceryneia. (Diod. xi. 65; Strab. viii.

pp. 372, 377; Pans. ii. 16. § 5, v. 23. § 3, vii. 25.

§ 3, viii. 27. § 1.) From this time Mycenae remained

uninhabited, for the Argives took care that this

strong fortress should remain desolate. Strabo, how­

ever, committed a gross exaggeration in saying that

there was not a vestige of Mycenae extant in his

time (viii. p. 372). The ruins were visited by Pau-

sanias, who gives the following account of them (ii.

15, 16):—"Returning to the piss of the Tretus,

and following the road to Argos, you have the ruins

of Mycenae on the left hand. Several parts of the

enclosure remain, and among them is the gate upon

which the lions stand. These also are said to he the

work of the Cyclopes, who built the walls of Tiryns

for Proetus. Among the ruins of the city there is

a fountain named Perseia, and subterraneous build­

ings (uro7o7a oiKohauriuara) of Atreus and his

sons, in which their treasures were deposited. There

are likewise the tombs of Atreus, of his charioteer

Eurymedon, of Electra, and a sepulchre in common

of Teledamus and Pelops, who are said to have been

twin sons of Cassandra. But Clytaemnestra and

Aegisthus were buried at a little distance from the

walls, being thought unworthy of burial where Aga­

memnon lay."

The rains of Mycenae are still very extensive,

and, with the exception of those of Tiryns, are mora

ancient than those of any other city in Greece. They

belong to a period long antecedent to all historical

records, and may be regarded as the genuine relics

of the heroic age.

l-LAX OK TIIK RUINS OK MVCKNAE.

A. Arropolli. B. Gate of l.ion«.

C. Subterraneous building, usually called the Treasury ,

Mycenae consisted of an Acropolis and a lower

town, each defended by a wall. The Acropolis was

situated on the summit of a steep hill, projecting

from a higher mountain behind it. The lower town

lay on the south-western slope of the hill, on either

side of which runs a torrent from east to west.

The Acropolis is in form of an irregular triangle,

D. Subterraneous building.

E. Village of Kliarvati.

of which the base fronts the sooth-west, and the

apex the cast. On the southern side the cliffs are

almost precipitous, overhanging a deep gorge; but

on the northern sido the descent is less steep and

rugged. The summit of the hill is rather more than

1000 feet in length, and around the edire the ruined

walls of the Acropolis still exist in their entire cir­

