ROMA. ROMA. 757

-runt tonal to 10,230 English yards (Burgess,  
'j^r-ipiy am' Antiquities of Rom*, vol. i. p.

lip), which agrees as nearly as possible with

v ranker above given of 5} miles. Nibby, who

■at i laborious but perhaps not very accurate

caspt t» ascertain the point bj walking round the

"**&r«l line of the ancient walls, arrived at a con-

i-nlli lirrer result, or nearly 8 miles. (Jfura, gV.

>«V ad doubtful Gales. —Hut our present

ii with the gates of the Servian town;

i it would really appear that in the time of

•nun there were no fewer than thirty-seven

«au tram toe ancient walls. The seven old

ivi to which Pliny alludes as liaving ceased to

if. say possibly have included those of the old

•-aksa dry and also some in the Servian walls,

i Lad been closed. In order to account for the

r number recorded by Pliny, we must figure to

*v/vta what would bs the natural progress of a  
'arrronded with a strong wall like that of

n u.wbae population was beginning to outgrow

'«coeunodation afforded within it. At first

< «?< booses would be built at the Bides of the

• Maine from the main gates; but,as at Rome

v i :ei acre often appropriated for sepulchres,

iranuiodation thus afforded would be limited.

nrtu of time, the use of the wall becoming

*7 iir more obsolete, fresh gates would be  
corresponding with the line of streets inside,

• i would be continued by a line of road outside,

•.Tii buutes nould be erected. Gradually the

■ ■ tinnselres began to disappear; but the open-

< :iut hod bees pierced were still recorded, as

kr fiscal or other purposes, the boundary of

words. Hence, though Augustus had divided

ety sad suburbs into fourteen new Regions,

is! the ancient boundary marked by these

t «till recorded and measured in the timo of

•SMS; and indeed it seems to have been kept

'"•long while afterwards, since we find the

■ tjirber of thirty-seven gates recorded both in

J rfi.'ia and Cnriotwn.

*3t* we would n<-t tamper with the text of  
'. at Xibby has done with very unfortunate

x*(U*ra. tfc p. 213, seq)— a remedy that

ewer be resorted to except in cases of the last

■irr. Plinya statement may be regarded as

» ' thou; influence with respect to the original

■v rates, the number of which we should rather

cesd to reduce than to increase. We find,

inert names mentioned than those enu-

iwt some of them were ancient or obsolete

'sai. agaio, we must remember that 11 porta"

a*, ahrays signify a city gate. Of the former

taw Porta Agostessh, which, as we learn

I'uhu l>tao«m* (p. 10), was another appclla-

'tie Porta Collins- The same author (p. 255)

il«u> Porta QriRi*Ai.is as a substantive

'tv^zh possibly, like Agonensis, it was only a

»i» tiome far one of the gates on the Quirinal.

trot * porta" was applied to any arched

.-'rfi.T. and ftomelimes perhaps to the arch of

■duct when it spanned a street in the line of

in which cms*? it was built in a superior

• and had usually an inscription. Among

ii thorough fan* called "portae" were the

- rjLUA oo the Clivus Capitolinus, the Lium-

■ :o the ampliitheatre, the Fesestklla, men-

by Ovid (Fast, vi 569) as that by which

a Tqaleit Ttaiawl, Iir The last of these formed

the entrance to Numa's regia, as we learn from

Plutarch (de Fort. Rom. 10). Among the arches

of aqueducts to which the name of gate was applied,

may perhaps be ranked that alluded to by Martial

(iv. 18): —

"Qua vicina plait Vipsanis porta columnis," &c.

Respecting the gates called Kkhextixa and I'iacit-

I.ARIS we have before offered a conjecture. [See p.

728.] The Porta Mktia rests solely on a false read­

ing of Plautus. (Co*, ii. 6. 2, ./"send. i. 3.97.) On

the other hand, a Pouta Catclaria seems to have

really existed, which is mentioned by Paulus Dia-

conus (p. 45; cf. Festus, p. 285) in connection

with certain sacrifices of red-coloured dogs. This

must be the sacrifice alluded to by Ovid (Fast.

iv. 905), in which the entrails of a dog were

offered by the flamen in the Lurus Robiginis. It

is also mentioned in the Fasti Fraenestmi, vii.

Kal. Mai, which date agrees with Ovid's: "Fe-

riae Robigo Via Claudia, ad miliariutn v., ne ro-

bigo frumentis noceat" But this is at variance

first, with Ovid, who was returning to Rome by the

Via Nomentana, not the Via Claudia, and, secundly,

with itself, since the Via Claudia did not branch off

from the Via Flaminia till the 10th milestone, and,

consequently, no sacrifice could be performed on it

at a distance of 5 miles from Rome. However this

discrepancy is to be reconciled, it can hardly bo

supposed that one of the Roman gates derived its

name from a trifling rustic sacrifice; unless, indeed,

it was a duplicate one, used chiefly with reference

to sacerdotal customs, as seems to hare been some­

times the case, and in the present instance to denote

the gate leading to the spot where the annual rite

was performed. Paulus Diacunu* also mentions (p.

37) a Porta Collatina, which he affirms to have

been so called after the city of Collatin, near Rome.

But when we reflect that both the Via Tiburtina

and the Via Praenestina issued from the Porta

F.sqnilina, and that a road to Collatia must have

run between them, the impossibility of a substantive

Porta Collatina is at once apparent. TheDuoiiECiM

Portae are placed by Bunsen <Beschr. i. p. 633) in

the wall of the Circus Maximus; but as it appears

from Pliny (I c.) that they stood on the ancient

line of wall, and as we have shown that this did not

make part of the wall of the circus, this could not

have been their situation. We do not see the force

of Piale's celebrated discovery that the Duodecim

Portae must hare been a place at Rome, because

Julius Obsequens says that a mule brought forth

there; which it might very well have done at one

of the gates. Becker's opinion (HnHilh. p. 180)

that it was an arch, or arches, of the Aqua Appia

seems as unfounded as that of Bunsen (vide Preller,

Regimen, p. 193). It is mentioned by the Xotitia

iu the 11th Regio, and therefore probably stood

somewhere near the Aventine ; but its exact site

cannot be determined. It seems probable, as Preller

remarks, that it may have derived its name from

being a complex of twelve arched thoroughfares like

the 'EjvfdwvAoi' of the Pelasgicon at Alliens.

7Vowlioen'ne Wall. — Ancus Morcius, as we

have related, fortified the Janicillm, or hill on

the right bank of the Til*r commanding the

city. Some hare concluded from I.ivy (i. 33:

"Janiculum quoque adjectum, non inopia locorum,

sed ne quando ea arx hostium esset. Id non inuro

solum, sed etiam ob commoditatem itineris ponte

Sublicio turn primum in Tiberi facto conjungi urbi

3 c 3

