MARSYABAE. 283 MARSYABAE.

took (hem fifty days to traverse, through the fault

of their guide; when they come to the city of the

Agrani ('Ayparoi'), lying in a peaceful and fruitful

country. This they took; and after a march of six

days, came to the river. Here, after a pitched battle,

is which the Romans killed 10,000 Arabs, with the

loss of only two men, they took the city called Asca

(*A«a). then A thru 11a ("A0pouAAa), and proceeded

to Harsvabae of the Rhamanitae, then governed by

Haunts, from which, as already mentioned, they

commenced their retreat by a much shorter route.

Nine days brought them to Anagrana ('Avciypava),

where the battle had been fought; eleven more

to the Seven Wells ('Ewra gycara), -o called

from the fact; then to a village named Chaalla

(XdaXXa), and another named Malotha (MaAo'&i),

— the latter situated on a river,—and through a

desert with few watering-places to Nera or Negra

Cimie (N*pi K«>tij), on the sea-shore, subject to

Obodas. This retreat was accomplished in sixty

dan; the advance had occupied six months. From

Nera they sailed to Myos Hormus (Mvbs Souos)

b eleven days. Thus far Strabo (xvi. p. 782).

Flir>y is much more brief. He merely states that

Gxlma destroyed towns not mentioned by previous

writers, Negra, Amnestrnm, Nesca, Magusa, Tam-

aiicum. Labecia, the above-named Mariaba (i. c.

the Mariaba of the Calingii, 3), and Caripeta, the

remotest point which he reached. {Hist. Nat.

vi 2S.) The only geographical point mentioned by

Dkm Cassius, who dwells chiefly on the sufferings of

the anny, is that the important city of Athlula

(Ad\ot>Aa) was the limit of this disastrous expe­

dition. (Dion Caaa. liiL 29.)

II. The variations of commentators on this nar­

rative may be estimated by these facts: Dean

Vincent maintains that, " as Pliny says, that places

which occur in the expedition of Gall us are not found

ia authors previous to his time, the same may be

uid of subsequent writers; for there is not one of

torn, ancient or modern, who will do more than

affi-rd matter for conjecture." (PeripL pp. 300,301.)

Mr. Forstcr asserts, "Of the eight cities named by

Hioy, the names of two most clearly prove them

to be the same with two of those mentioned by

Strabo; ami that seven out of the eight stand, with

moral certainty, and the eighth with good proba-

Bilitj, identified with as many Arab towns, still

aetuallj in being." {Geography of Arabia, vol. ii.

a-310.) D'Anville and M. Fresnel (inf. cU.) con­

duct the expedition to Ifadramaut, in the southern

eaxnmity of the ]ieninsula; Gosselin does not extend

it beyond the Hedjaz. (Recherche* tur la Geogra-

ptiede* Ancient, torn. ii. p. 114.) But these va­

rious tbeoriea require more distinct notice. 1. D'An-

viilr, following Buchart (Chanaan, i. 44), identifies

Leuce Come with the modern Hawr or El-IIaura,

« the Red Sea, a little north of the latitude of

sWmo, justifying the identification by the coinci­

dence of meaning between the native and the Greek

name*. Anagrana he fixes at Nageran or Kegran

(AVrfrVoa), a town in the NE. of Yemen; con-

■tcmly with which theory he makes the Marsyabae

of Strabo identical with the Mariaba of the same

pecrspber; though Strabo makes the latter the

capital of the Sabaei, and assigns the former to

the Bhanvimlae. Finally, D'Anville places Chaalla

at KoaoJan(.£7-CAa«i/a*), in the NW. extremity

«t Yemen, and, therefore, as he presumes, on the

fcoian line of retreat between Anagrana and the

•**- (D'Anville Geographic aricienne abregee,

torn. ii. pp. 216, 217, 223, 224). 2. Cossolin, as

before noticed, maintains that the expedition did not

pass beyond Arabia Deserta and the Hedjaz; that

the Negra of Pliny = the Negran of Ptolemy =

the modern Nokra or Maaden en-Nokra (in the

NW. of Nedjd) ; that Pliny's Magusa = Megarish-

uzzir (which he marks in his map NW. of Negra,

and due East of Moilah, his Leuce (pp. 254, 255),

perhaps identical with Dalir eUMaghair'm Hitters

map; that Tammacum in Pliny = Thaema in Pto­

lemy = the modern Tima (which he places nearly

due north of Negra, between it and Magusa) =

Teimd in Ritter, between Maaden en-Nokra and

Dahr el-Maghair; that Labccia = Laba of Ptolemy,

which he does not place ; that Athrulla = Iathrippa

[Lathrippa] in Ptolemy = Mcdineh ; that Ma­

riaba in Pliny = Marsyabae in Strabo,=Macoraba

in Ptolemy = Mecca ; and lastly, that Caripeta, the

extreme point according to Pliny, = Ararene in

Strabo=modern Cariatain, in the heart of El-Nedjd.

(Gosselin, I. c. pp. 113—116.) 3. Dean Vincent's

opinion on the difficulty of recovering any clue to

the line of march has already been stated ; but he

ventures the following conjectures, partly in agree­

ment, and partly in correction, of the preceding.

He adopts the Leuce Come of Gosselin, i. e. Moilah;

the Anagrana or Negra of D'Anville, i.e. AW/rnnof

Yemen; and thinks that the country of the no-

mades, called Ararthie, has a resemblance to the

territory of Medina and Mecca ; and that the space

of fifty days employed in passing it, is some con­

firmation of the conjecture. Marsyabae, he thinks,

could not be Mariaba of the Tank; but takes it as

the general name for a capital,—in this case of the

Mineans,—which he suggests may correspond with

the Caripeta of Pliny, the Carna or Carana of Strabo,

the capital of the MinGans, and the Cami-peta, or

Carni-petra of modern geographers. The fact that

Strabo speaks of Carna as the capital of the Minaei,

and places Marsyabae in the territory of the llha-

manitae, is deposed of by the double hypothesis, that

if llasar is the king of this tribe, whether Calingii,

Rhamanitae. or Elaesari, all three were comprehended

under the title of Mineans. Of Nera, the termina­

tion of the expedition, he remarks, that it being in

the country of Obodas, it must be within the limits

of Petraea; but, as no modern representative offers,

it should be placed as far below (south of) Leuce

Come as the province will admit. (Vincent, Periplw

of the Erythrean Sea, vol. ii. pp. 290—311.) 4.

M. Fresnel, long a resident in the country, thinks

that the Marsyabae of Strabo must be identical with

the Mariaba in Pliny's list of captured cities, the

same writer's Baramalacum, and Ptolemy's Manama;

and that the Khamanitae of Strabo are the Rhamnei

of Pliny, the Manitae of Ptolemy, one of the divi­

sions of the Minaei, to which rather than to the other

division, the Charmaei, Mariaba Baramalacum should

have been assigned. In agreement with Vincent, he

finds the Marsyabae of Strabo in the capital of the

Minaei, i. c. the Carana of Strabo and the Carnan

Regia of Ptolemy, which he however finds in the

modern Al-Ckam in the Wady Doan or Dawim

(Kurein and Grein in Kieperts and Zimmerman's

maps), six or seven days' journey north of Mouk~

a I lull, and in the heart of Iladrumaut. (Fresnel, in

Journal Atiatigue, Juillet, 1840, 3me serie, torn. x.

pp. 83—96. 177, &c.) He fancied that be reco­

vered the Caripeta of Pliny in the site of Khour-

aybah, also in the vicinity of Aloukallah (lb.

p. 196). 5. Dcsvergers prefers the identification

