PAGASAEUS SINUS. PALAEPOLIS. 515

ktiitmiSMtmd Demctrias in 11. c. 290, Pagasae

ns m if the towns, whose inhabitants were trans-

wnd 1o the nrw citf; but after the Roman conquest

?Uia* m mknd. and again became an important

ut Ii th« time of Strabo it was the port of

hat. thick *u the principal city in this part of

TVsa>. Piguse was 90 stadia from Phcrae, and

a (xn lata. (Smb. I. c.) The ruins of the

oca* cCr ire to be seen near Volo, which has

,™ the modem nine to the bay. The acropolis

wenis) the summit of some rocky heights above

fov Atsrufri, and at the foot of the rocks are

k; apnat toarces of water, of which Strabo

nati Bet is thaw springs are rather saline to

Be u-r, the citj was provided in the Roman times

v~ <Vjtr from s distance by means of an aqueduct,

t> .ind pets of which are still a conspicuous

■Vet (Leake, AortAem Greece, vol. iv. p. 368,

■>>

fiCASAECS SINUS. [Paoasab.]

FAGRAE (noypoi), a town of Syria, placed by

h»<»j u the district of Pieria, near the Syrian

('. 15. § 12), bat more particularly de-

hr Stnba, as adjoining Gindarus, the acro-

.fCyrnWice. Pagru he places in the district

tarto, and describes as a strung place near

of the Amanus, on the Syrian aide of the

aba Axaxidu Pylae [Vol I. p. 113], the

files of Ptolemy (i. c). The plain of

Strabo, lies under Pagrae, through

the Arrrathus, the Orontes, and the

fa this plain is also the dyke of Melea-

tbe river Oenoparas. Above it is the ridge

» called from its resemblance to a

i which Ventidius engaged Phranicatcs, ge­

lt < tbt Parthiana, (xvi. p. 751.) The place

in medieval and modern geo-

'vy the aid of Abulfeda and Pococke.

"p*, writes the former, has a lofty citadel, with

v. and gardens; it is said to be

; littiej from Antioch, and as many from

It is situated on a mountain over-

ti» valley of Ckarem, which Chartm is

m »>, (ti£es to (Im east. Jiaghras is

Bka a stage from Darbasak, to the south.

pVw»!,p.l20.) Pococke is still more par-

la ha description. He passed within sight

■cwkb Antioch and Baiaa. After passing

be uraed to the west between the hills,

aio. about 2 miles to the north, the

rf Pogras on the bills; this was the

» of it in the Itinerary [Antooini], in

■ i> paced 16 miles from Alexandria and

AiSjoch; which hitter is a mistake, for the

a Juoroty (calling it Paiigrios) puts it

14 Kuies from Antioch. As I have

wared, a river called Soada rises in the

•» t« the west, runs under this place,... and

At kit of Antioch,"— also called from it

I

otherwise Bohr A (joule, "the White

the colour of its waters. This Souda

the river Arceuthas mentioned by

■waiately after Pagrae, as running through

I wf A ■ . ,;' (Observation* on Syria,

11*1) It is numbered 17 on the map of

•"Una. rVeit p. 114 ] [G. W.]

(Qwrn). a hill of Ionia, a little to the

■affraa, with a chapel of Nemesis and a

o«i«waar. (Pan*, v. 12. § 1.) Modern

1 «Wrae the hill as between 500 and GOO

Ipnad as presenting the form of a cone from

which the point is cut off. (Hamilton, Researches,

i. p. 53, foil.) [L. S.]

PAGYRI'TAE (noryop'Teu, Ptol. iii. 5. § 22), a

people of European Sarmatia, whose position cannot

be made out Schafarik (Slav. Alt. vol. i. p. 211)

connects the termination of their name with the word

"gura," which the Poles and other Rosso-Slavonian

stocks use for " gora," " mountain." [E. B. J.]

PALA'CIUM (TlaAaKiov). a fortress in the Taurio

Chersonese, built by Scilurus, king of the Tauro-

Scythians, to resist the attacks of Milhridates and

his generals. (Strab. vii. p. 312.) The name,

which it seems to have taken from his son Palacus

(Strab. pp. 306, 309), still survives in the modern

Balukldva, which Dr. Clark (Travel), vol. ii. p. 219)

inaccurately supposes to be derived from the Genoese

"Bella Clava," "The Fair Harbour." Its harbour

was the Symbolon Portis (Xv/ig6\uy a<ui>,

Strab. vii. pp. 308, 309; Arrian, I'cripl. p. 20; Ptol.

iii. 6. § 2; Plin. iv. 26), or the Cembaro or Cem­

balo of the middle ages, the narrow entrance to

which has been described by Strabo (/. c.) with such

fidelity to nature. According to him, the harbour,

together with that of Ctenus (Sebastopol), consti­

tuted by their approach an isthmus of 40 stadia;

this with a wall fenced the Lesser Peninsula, having

within it the city of Chersonesns The SiNrs

PoKTUOSUS of Pomponius Meht(ii. 1. § 3), from the

position he assigns to it between Criumetopon and

the nest point to the \V\, can only agree with Bala-

kldva, which is truly " koAos AiuV et promontoriis

duobns induditur." Dubois de Montpereux ( 1 'oynyc

autour du Caucase, vol. vi. pp. 115, 220), in ac­

cordance with his theory of transferring the wander­

ings of Odysseus to the waters of the Euxine,

discovers in Balaklava the harbour of the giant

Laestrygones (Odyts. x. 80—99); and this opinion

lias been taken up by more than one writer. It is

almost needless to say that the poet's graphic pic­

ture of details freshly drawn from the visible world,

is as true of other land-locked basins, edged in by

cliffs, as when applied to the greyish-blue, or light

red Jura rocks, which hem in the entrance to the

straits of Balaildca, [E. B. J.]

PALAE, a town of Thrace, according to Lapse

near Moussaldja. (Itm. Ant. p. 568.) [T. H.D.J

PALAEA. 1. (riaAoia), a place in the Troad

on the coast, 130 stadia from Andeira. (Strab. xiii.

p. 614.)

2. (riaAaia fcc6uT]), in Laconia, [Plkiak.]

PALAEBYBLOS (noAolgi/SAor, Strab. xv. p.

755; naAauSSugAot, Ptol. v. 15. §21), a town of

Phoenicia, which Strabo places alter the Climax

or promontory called Has- Watta-Salan, forming thu

N. extremity of the Bay of Kesruan. The site,

which is unknown, was therefore probably between

the Climax, in the steep cliffs of which it was neces­

sary to cut steps—whence the name—and the river

Lycus, among the hills which closely border the

shore, and rise to the height of 1000 feet Ptolemy

(L c.) calls it a city of the interior, and the Peu-

tinger Table places it 7 M. P. from Berytus, but

does not give its distance from Bybloe. (Kenrick,

Phoenicia, p. 12, London, 1855.) [E. B.J]

PALAEMYNDUS. [Mykdus.]

PAI.AEOBYBLUS. [T'alaebyblus.]

PALAEPHARUS, or PALAEPHAItSALUS,

that is either old Pharac or Pberae or old Pharsalus,

according to the difference of the readings in the

text of Livy (xxxii. 13).

PALAEPOLIS. [NaUroua.]

I. 1. L'

