TAUEOSCYTHAE. TEASUM. 1115

rffcrt, u well as to the interest, of the ruin. From

Lbr fragments of architectural decorations still

i n '. we learn that it was of the Corinthian order,

mi richlj ornamented. In size it ranks next to

Ifca theatre of Syracuse, among those of Sicily.

Sime portions of a temple are also visible, converted

ntn the church of S. Pancrazio, but the edifice is

n imall size and of little interest. The ruins at

Td>ii mma are described in detail by the Duke of

wra di Falco (Antichita delta Sicilia, vol. v. part

t.y ai well as by most travellers in Sicily. (Swin­

dle's Tratelt, vol. ii. p. 380; Smyth's Sicily,

im.ic.) 'tE.U.B.]

OOIX OF TAUROMEXIUM.

TAUBOSCYTHAE (Taupoaxiea,, Ptol. iii. 5.

i2i), tailed by Pliny Tauri Scythae(iv. 12. 8.26),

i f^'i'le of European Sarmatia, composed of a mix-

of TaurUns and Scythians. They were seated

'i tb» W. of the Jazyges, and the district which

iiey inhabited appears to have been called Tauro-

• jtbia. (Cf. Strub. ap. Hudson, p. 87 ; Copit. M.

W 9; Procop. da Atd. iii. fin.) [T. H. U.]

TAUR17NUM (Taupowoi'), a strong fortress in

L »pr Pannooia, at the point where the Savus joins

■a lunuhios, on the road from Sinnium to Sinsi.

■um. It was the station of a small fleet of the

Nubias. (Plin. iii. 28; PtoL ii. 16. § 4; It Ant

ft 131, 241; Tab. /'cut.; Geogr. Kav. iv. 19,

» em it is called Tauryuum.) Its site is now

• ■ p'ed by the fortress of Sanlia, ojipositc to

Ujrwdt. [L. S.]

1A URL'S MOSS (i T«i>oj), one of the great

rmnges of Asia, the name of which is

'•rj to be derived from the Aramaic Tur or

'ura, i. e., a high mountain or Alp, and accordingly

> a reality a common noun applied to all the high

'"-villains of Asia. The name lias even been trans-

*™<l to Europe, for the Tauriau Chersonesus in  
«r:u»ja and the Tanriaci in the Xorican Alps

ijAar to owe their name to the same origin. We

unoc winder therefore when we find that Erato-

■ tran (ap. Strab. xv. 689) and Strabo (ii. pp. 68,

U, i. p. 490) apply the name to the whole range

I mountains extending from the Mediterranean to

eastern ocean, although their connection is often

n4<-x This extent of mountains is, according to

EnW( calculation (si. p. 490), 45,000 stadia in

Ipfc, and 3000 in breadth. But in the narrower

II common acceptation Mount Taurus is the

KVI of mountains in Asia Minor which begins at

>j«- Sacrum or Chelidonium on the coast of Eycia,

■ .fL for this reason is called by Mela (i 15) and

ay (v. 28) Pronionlorium Tauri. It was, bow-

t well known to llie ancients Uiat this promontory

» not the real commencement, hut that in fact the

u.-e extended to the south-western extremity of Asia

'.Jrt. (Strab. ii. p. 129, xi. p. 520, xiv. pp. 651,

This range rises in the W. as a lofty and

Mpiuma mountain, and runs without any inter-

.t-'i-aja, first in a northern direction between Lycia

iaj Pamphylia, then in an eastern direction through

Wis and Irauria as far as the frontiers of CUicia

w Lycaoniv There it separates into two main

branches. The ono proceeds north-eastward under

the name of Antitaurus ('ArrfraupoT), and surpasses

the other in height. It rnns through Cappadocia.

where it forms Mount Argaeus ('Ap7oios), and

Armenia, where it is called Mons Capotes, and

through the Montes Moschici it is connected with the

Caucasus, while a more southerly branch, under the

names of Abus and -Min is or Ma-sis, runs through

Armenia towards the Caspian sea. The second

branch, which separates itself on the frontiers of

Cilicia and Lycaonia, retains the name of Taurus,

and proceeds from Cilicia, where it forms the Portae

Ciliciae, and sends forth Mons Amanus in a southern

direction, while the main branch proceeds through

Cappadocia. After being broken through by the

Euphrates, it again sends forth a southern branch

under the name of Mons Masius. The nanio Taurus

ceases in the neighbourhood of Lake Arsissa. tho

mountains further east having ether names, such as

Niphates, Zagrua, &c Most parts of Mount Taurus,

which still bears its ancient name, were well wooded,

and furnished abundance of timlier to the maritime

cities on the south coast of Asia Minor. [L. S.j

TAUKUS PALUS, an (tang on the coast of

Narbonensis, west of the delta of the Rhone. It is

named in the verses of Avienus, quoted in the

article Fecyi Jigum; and to the verses there

cited may be added the following verse:—

"Taurum paludem namque gentici (gentili) vo-

cant."

Bnt I. Vossins in his edition of Mela (ii. 5, note)

writes the verses of Avienus thus:—

"In usque Taphrum pertinet,

Taphron paludem namque gentili vocant;"

an alteration or corruption which D'Anville jnstly

condemns, for the itang is still named Taur, or

vulgarly Tau. [G. L.]

TAXGAETIUM (Tofv-a/no*), a place assigned

by Ptolemy (ii. 12. § 5) to Rhaetia, but which more

properly helunged to V'indelicia, was situated on the

northern shore of the Lacus Brigantinus, and pro­

bably on the site of the modern Lmdau. [L. S.J

TA'XILA (Ta^iAa, Arrian, .4 na&. v. 8; TofiaAo,

Ptol. vii. 1. § 45), a place of great importance in

the Upper Punjab, between the Indus and Hydaspra,

which was visited by Alexander the Great. It is

said to have been ruled at that lime by a chief

named Taxiles, who behaved in a friendly manner

to the Grecian king. The country around was said

to be very fertile, and more abundant than even Egypt

(Strab. xv. pp. 698—714). There can be littlo

doubt that it is represented by the vast ruins of

Manityala, which has in modern times been the

scene of some very remarkable researches (Elphin-

stone, Cabul, p. 79; Burnes, Tranlt, i. p. 65, ii.

p. 470.) The famous Topes of Manityala, which

were examined by General Ventura and others

(Aiiatic Rn. xvii. p. 563), lie to the eastward of

Raicil-pindi. Wilson con.-iders Taxila to be tho

same as the TaUuatila of the Hindus (Ariana,

p. 196). [V.]

TAV'GETUS [Lacoma, pp. 108, 109.]

TAZUS (Tofor, Ptol. iii. 6. § 6). 1. A town in

the SE. part of the Chersonesus Taurica.

2. A town of Asiatic Sarmatia, on the S. coast of

the Pontus Euxinus. (Ptol. v. 9. § 9.) [T. H. U.]

TEA'SUM (Jiaror: F.tk. Teanensis: C'rritafe),

sometimes also called Teanitm Apui.i:m (Cic. pro

Clumt. 9; Tiaror "AwokAok, Strab.: Elk, Teanenses

Apuli),todi5tinguishitfromtheCampaniancityofthe

