800 ROMA,

ROMA.

before quoted from Servius (ad A en. vii. 607), how­

ever absurd in other respects, may at least lie received

as evidence of the existence of such a Janus here,

especially as it is confirmed by other writers. Thus

Joannes Lydus: «al roiotnov xvtqv &yaApa(TtTpd~

fiopfpov) if T(p <p6p(f> rovNfp€a trl teal vvv Acyerat

<jt<jtoO}itvov (tie Malt. iv. 1). So also Martial; —

u Nunc tua Caesarcis cinguntur Umina donis

Et for* tot nomeros, Jane, quot on gens"

(x. 28. 5).

In the middle ages this Janus-temple appear! to

have borne the name of jVooA'j Ark.

In the time of Pope Paul V. considerable remains

existed of the pronaos, or vestibule of this temple of

Minerva, consisting of several columns with their

entablature, with the following inscription: DIP.

NERVA. CAKSAU. AVO. PONT, MAX. TRIB. POT.

it. imp. n. PROCOS. (Canina, Fwro Horn. p. 171.)

Paul took these columns to adorn his fountain, the

Acqua Paolo, on the Janieulum. In the Via

Ahsmndrina there are still remains of the wall of

peperino which formed the enclosure of the forum,

together with two large Corinthian columns half

buried in the earth, now called the Colonnacce.

Their entablature is covered with mutilated reliefs,

and over them is an Attic, with a figure of Minerva,

also in relief. The situation of the forum of Nerra,

and the remains of it existing in his time, are de­

creed by Palladio (AvchiMtura, lib. iv.), also by

Du Perac (torn, vi.), who observes, that it was then

the most complete ruin of a forum in Koine. The

Cohmtacce are represented by Gamucci, Antichita

tli Roma, p. 55; Desgodetz, p. 159, seq.; Overbeke,

pi. 39. There is a good description of the f»ra of

Augustus and Nerra by Niebuhr in the Beschrdbuny

Horns, vol. iii. p. 275.

Forum Trajani. Thus between the Capitoline

and Palatine hills, the Velian ridge and the ascent

of the Quirinal, the valley was almost filled with a

splendid series of public places, which we might

imagine could hardly be surpassed. Yet it was re­

served for Trajan to complete another forum, still

more magnificent than any of the preceding ones,

for the construction of which the Quirinal itself was

forced to yield up part of its mass. Previously

to the time of Trajan that hill was connected

with the Capitoline by a sort of isthmus, or slen­

der neck; the narrow and uneven defile between

them was covered with private houses, nnd tra­

versed only by a single road of communication

between the forum and Campus Martina. But

on the western side of this defile lay one of the

handsomest quarters of Rome, containing the Septa

Julia, the Flaminian circus, the theatres of Balboa,

Poinpey, and Marcellus, together with those temples

and porticoes which so much excited the admiration

of Strabo, ami which he has described in a passage

quoted in the former part of this article. The de­

sign of the forum of Trajan was, therefore, to con­

nect this quarter of the town with the imperial fora

in a manner not unworthy of the magnificent struc­

tures on cither side of it. Tins gigantic work, a

portion of which still remains, though the greater

part lias disappeared under the united influences of

time and barbarism, is (apposed to have been pro­

jected, and even begun, by DomitUu. (Aur. Vict.

Ctu-K. 13; Uieron. i. p. 443, lionc; Cassiod. Chron.

it. p. 197.) It was, however, executed by Trajan,

with the assistance of the celebrated architect Apollo-

dorus of Damascus. (Dion Cass. Ixix. 4.) But no

ancient author has left us a satisfactory c

of it, and we are obliged to nuke oat Uxftfii

best we may, from what we can trier of then

a ta-sk somewhat aided by the excavitia* I

the French when they had [possession t£ 1

commencement of the present century. (SatTa

Etudes Statist. Itome, torn. u. p. 253, pLl

Pea, Notizie degli scan netf AmjiUatra T

ntl Foro Traiano, Rom. 1813; Bonsai,I«J

de Home, iid* partie, p. 24, seq.) Tba i

work consisted of the following parts:

1. The forum, properly so called. a urp ^

area immediately adjoining the NW.udorftf

of Caesar and Augustus, and filling the' *

between the Capitoline and Quirinal,-moeW

latter hill, indeed, and some of the faraar, I

been cut away in order to nuke room far a

part, which was called the area or atrium fari(

xiii. 24; Amm. Marc. xvi. 10), cooUiaai. I

middle, an equestrian statue of Trajan. aa4 \

adorned with many other statues. The M&4

sides of this square where the ground bad i

away from the hills, was occupied who -

buildings. There are still Urge remainsU

the Quirinal, which are vulgarly called t^e b

Paullus Acmilius. The lower part of laal

which has only been laid open within tbt al

years, consists of quadrangular niche*,i''*

bably served as little shops ; above then was al

portico, with rooms and staircases Jea&af I

upper floors. Piranesi and other to?

jectured that there was another sisulaf \

on the side of the Capitol, at the place <

Chiavi d Oro; but Canina was the first I

strate its existence in hi* Indicaaam Tej

Along the front of each of the crrscenu I

there seems to have been a portico,'

forum its proper rectangular form. Taa i

thus divided into three parts, through I

terior ones of which there was a r\*d far I

as appears from traces of pavement; wtnaatal

or middle division was paved with 1

the middle of the SE. side there!

a triumphal arch, vestiges of which i

in the time of Plain iuio Vacca (Jfa

forming the principal entrance on the j

imperial fora.

FORUM f> HIT

2. Next to the forum on the MW. -lieu

silica Ulpia, which extended acrws it I

and thus served to form ore of ita i

lica was called Ulpia from Trajan's 1

The plan of the middle part is now aaaifl

It seems to have been divided i

of cotumns, thus forming fire i

absitks or chaUidica at each end.

