SPARTA. 1099 SPARTA.

ri the temple of Hera Aegophagns. He

irii Mams to the theatre, and mentions the

d ——h in its neighbourhood; among

ttn a temple of Poseidon Genethlias, heroa

■iirta and Oebalus, a temple of Asclcpius,

kr bVoneta, the most celebrated of all the

14 tfaii god in Sparta, with the heroum of

b * its left; on a height not far distant, an

l tenpie of Aphrodite armed, upon an upper

f which wis a second temple of Aphrodite

i; sl hs neighbourhood was a temple of HU

ud I'boebe, containing their statues, and an

tir:i«i fW*n the roof, said to have been that

l faosanias next mentions a house, named

, ia which was woven the robe for the Amy-

Aplk; and on the way towards the city

lit heroa of Cbeilon and Athenaeus. Near

n.-i w« the hou.se of Phormion, who hospi-

ceruined the Dioscuri when they entered the

*tm£ot (Pans, iii 15.§6—16.§4.) From  
.'. M we may suppose that the Amyclaean

awd from this gate, and it may therefore be

a the •outbern part of the city. Iu that

« 6«i4e temple of Aphrodite probably stood

■t of tb» heights of New Sparta.

m*i Bcxt mentions a temple of Lycurgus;

fi tie tomb of his son Eucoamus, and an altar

kra ted Alexandra: opposite the temple were

■ fa "f Theopompus and Eurybiades, and the

i rf Artrabacus. In the place called Lim-

""d the temples of Artemis Orthia and

Tu< temple of Artemis Orthia was, as we

I"*ly retnarked, the common place of meeting

£«r Tillages of Pitane, Mcsoa, Cynosura, and

l (Paas.iil 16. § 6,seq.) Limnae was partly

n*j»ad partly in the suburbs. Its position

X of the DromuB has been mentioned above;

u emendation in a passage of Strabo be cor-

»1» included a district on the left bank of the

fc in the direction of Mt Thornax (to Aifivcuov

[B^m]ira, Meineke's emendation instead

£«. Strab. viii. p. 364).

t-awt ancient topographical information re-

C Sparta is contained in the answer of the

*■ *vle to Lycurgus. The oracle is reported

* Arreted the lawgiver to erect temples to  
*1 A'hena, and to fix the seat of the senate  
rf> tKween the Babyca and Cnacion. (Plat

■> These names were obsolete in the time of

da He says that the Cnacion was the Oenus,

r a tl'fma; and he also appears to have cou-

I Babyca a river, though the text is not

■ tiisl case the Babyca must be the Trypio-

i*h forms the southern boundary of the city.

however, from the same passage of Plu-

'-'u*. Aristotle regarded the Babyca as a bridge,

*! the Cnacion as a river; whence he would  
■* Utb given the name of Cnacion to the Try-

>. ■■aA that of Babyca to the bridge over the

ft.

Wk, or eastern bank of the Eurotas, was not

*1 lay part of Sparta. When Epaminondas  
d Lscoaia in b. a 370 he marched down the

^ «f the Eurotas till he reached the foot of the

which led through the hollow way into the city.

* 'itd not attempt to force the passage across  
""ta; and be saw on the other side a body of

drawn up in the temple of Athena

He therefore continued his march along the

•flfc of the river till he arrived opposite to

ae, where he crossed the river. (Xen. HtlL

vi. 5. § 27.) The account of Xenophon illustrates

a passage of Pausamas. The latter writer, in de­

scribing (iii. 19. § 7) the road to Therapne, men­

tions a statue of Athena Alea as standing between

the city and a temple of Zeus Plusius, above the

right bank of the Eurotas, at the point where the

river was crossed; and as only one bridge across the

Eurotas is mentioned by ancient writers, there can

be no doubt that the road to Therapne crossed the

bridge which Xenophon speaks of, and the remains

of which are still extant. Therapne stood upon

the Menelaium or Mount Menelaius, which rose

abruptly from the left hand of the river opposite the

south-eastern extremity of Spnrta. (M(vt\&ovt

Polyb. v. 22; M*t't-\d*.t>i\ Steph. B. *. v; Mene­

laius Moris, Liv. xxxiv. 28.) The Menelaium has

been compared to the Janicnlum of Rome, and rises

about 760 feet above the Eumtas. It derived its

name from a temple of Menelaus, containing the

tombs of Menelaus and Helen, whither solemn pro­

cessions of men and women were accustomed to re­

pair, the men imploring Menelaus to grant them

bravery and success in war, the women invoking

Helen to bestow beauty upon them and their chil­

dren. (Paus. iii. 19. § 9; Herod, vi. 61; Isocr.

Encom. Hel. 17; Hesych. 9. v. 'EAeVia, &tpairva-

rfSia.) The foundations of this temple were dis­

covered in 1834 by Ross, who found amongst the

ruins several small figures in clay, representing men

in military costume and women in long robes, pro­

bably dedicatory offerings made by the poorer clasps

to Menelaus and Helen. (Ross, Wanderungen in

Griechenland, vol. ii. p. 13, scq.) The temple of

Menelaus is expressly said to have been situated in

Thkbapne (0ep<£w*% ©epetwfeu; Theramne, Plin.

iv. 5. s. 8), which was one of the most ancient and

venerable places in the middle valley of the Eurotas.

It was said to have derived its name from a daughter

of Lclex (Paus. iii. 19. § 9), and was the Achaean

citadel of the district It is described by the poets

as the lofty well-towered Therapne, surrounded by

thick woods (Pind. hthm. i. 31; Coluth. 225),

where slept the Dioscuri, the guardians of Sparta.

(Pind. Aem, x. 55.) Here was the fountain of

Messeis, the water of which the captive women li.nl

to carry (Paus. iii. 20. § 1; Horn. II. vi. 457); and

it was probably upon this height that the temple of

Menelaus stood, which excited the astonishment of

Telemachus in the Odyssey. Hence Therapne iss-aid

to have been in Sparta, or is mentioned as t-y-

nonymous with Sparta. (©epoWat, *6\is Aaw* vmii,

V rives irrapTTj* <paffiv, Steph. II. *. r.: iv 2*cfpTT;,

Schol. ad Apoll. Rhwl ii. 162, Pind. hthm. i. 31.)

It is probable that further excavations upon this

spot would bring to light some tombs of the heroic

ages. The Phoebaeum, which has been already

described as the open space on the right bank of

the Eurotas [see p. 1028, b.], contained a temple of

the Dioscuri. Not far from this place was the

temple of Poseidon, turnamed Gaeaochus. (Paus. iii.

20. § 2.)

Alter the power of Sparta was destroyed by the

battle of Leuctra, its territory was exposed to inva­

sion and tho city to attack. The first time that an

enemy appeared before Sparta was when Ej*nii-

nondas invaded Laconia in b. C. 390, as already re­

lated. After crossing the river opposite Amyclae. he

marched against the city. His cavalry advance i jih

far as tho temple of Poseidon Gaeaochus, which we

have seen from Pausanias was in the Phoebaeum. We

also learn from Xenophon that the Hippodn me Vat

3 v 3

