808 ROMA. ROMA.

Acdis Victorias is said to be not at the foot of tbc

Velia, but on the summit of the Palatine.

Hut there is another argument brought forwards

by Ciinina against the height in question being the

Velia. He observes that the area on which the

temple of Venus and Rome stands is divided from the

Palatine by the Sacra Via, and hence could not have

belonged to the Velia ; since the Sacra Via, and

all the places on the opposite (northern) side of it,

were comprehended in the 1st Regio of Servius, or

the Suburaua, whilst the Palatine, including the

Velia, were contained in the 4th Regio (Indicax.

Topogr. p. 462, cf.Foro Horn. p. 61). Now if

this were so. it would certainly he a fatal objection

to Niebuhr's view; but we do not think that any

such thing can he inferred from Varro's words. In

describing the 1st Region, in which a place called

Ceroliensis was included, he says, "Ceroliensis a

Carinarum junctu dictns Carinae, pot tea Ccrolia,

qufxl hinc oritur caput Sacrae Viae ab Streniae sa-

cello," &c. (/,. L. v. § 47.) The passage is ob-

hcnre, hut we do not sec how it can be inferred from

it that the Sacra Via formed the boundary between

the 1st and 4th Servian Regions. Varro seems

rather to be explaining the origin of the name Cero-

lia, which lie connects with the Sacra Via, but in

a manner which we cannot understand. The Sacra

Via traversed the highest part of the ridge, and thus

on Canina's own showing must have included some

part of it in the 4th Region, making a division

where no natural one is apparent, which is not at all

probable. Besides, if tin's height was not called Velia,

what other name can be found for it? And it is

not at all likely that an eminence of this sort, which

is sufficiently marked, and lies in the very heart of

the city, should have been without a name.

Assuming the Velia, therefore, to have been that

rising ground which lies between the valley of the

forum on the one hand, and that of the Colosseum on

the other, we shall proceed to describe its monuments.

The AKDES 1'knatitm, before referred to as standing

on the declivity of the ridge, or Sub Velia, and de­

scribed by Dionysius (i. 68), seems to have been

one of the most venerable antiquity. In it were

^ preserved the images of the household gods said to

have been brought from Troy, having upon them the

inscription AENA2, which has given rise to so much

controversy ; namely, whether it is a scribe's error

for IIENA2, that is riENA2I = Penatibus, or whe­

ther it should have been AI2 MArNU (Diis Mag-

nia), &c. &c. (Sec Ambrosch, Stud. u. Andeut. p.

231, seq.; Clausen, Aniens u, die Petmtett, ii. p. 624,

ii. 1116; HerUberg, de Diis AW. Patriis, lib. ii.

c. 18.) We shall here follow our usual rule, and

give l)ionysius credit for understanding what he was

writing about, as there does not appear to be Any

grave objection to doing so ; and as he immediately

adds, after citing the above epigraph, that it referred

to the Penates(AENA2 eVrypo^r fgowai, dr}\ov-

<iav Tour nevdras), we shall assume that this was

really the temple of the Trojan household gods. The

Italian writers regard it as the temple of Remus.

A\e do not find any large buildings mentioned

upon the Velia till the time of Nero, who, as we have

seen, occupied it with the vestibule of his palace.

A considerable part of it had perhaps been a market

previously. Close to its NW. foot, immediately be-

liind the Aedes Penatium just indicated, Vespasian,

after his triumph over Jerusalem, built his celebrated

1 BMPLK of Peace, to which we have already had

occasion to allude, when describing the imperial fora.

(Joseph. B. J. vii. 5. § 7; Suet Yap. 9: Di« Cam

lxvi. 15.) It stood in an enclosed space, mucahtatse

temple of Venus Genitrix in Caesar's forum, •* theft

of .Mars Ultor in the forum of Augustas; and hsHtj

though nut designed like them as aputsrfir lersli

ness, it was nevertheless sometime*called Fa

The temple was built with the greatest

and adorned with precious works of art from ]

palace, as well as with the easily ?j«iU

from the temple of Jerusalem, which made it a

richest and most magnificent sanctuaries that I

world ever beheld. (Joseph. I.e.; 1'hn.xxxiT.8.a

xxxvi. 24; Herodian, i. 14.) Hence its

and notoriety gave a new name to the 4ia 1

in which it stood, which was previously calbe*

era Via," but now obtained the name of ~ Tel

l'acis." The exact site of this temple w,

subject of dispute, the older topographer*

ing that the remains of the three vset;

little to the K. of the spot just described, i

universally allowed to belong to the \

stantine, were remnants of it Piraot^i 1

doubts on the point, but Kibby was th

assigned to these two monuments their tru

(Foro Bom. p. 189, seq.); and his views I

further developed and con6rmed by Cainna.

dicaz. Topogr. p. 131, set].) As Becker I

adopted the same conclusion, it will not be i

to slate the grounds which led to it, as they 1

occupy considerable space ; and we shall

refer those readers who desire more info

the subject to the works just mentioned,

to the temple was a library, in which tkt 1

were accustomed to meet for the purpuA i"

and literary intercourse. (A. GelL t. J I,

Tin.' temple was burnt down a little befow tat 4

of Commodus. (Dion Cass, hi. 24; IT nri—.j

Galen, de Comp. Med, L 1.) It dors not I

have been restored, but the ruins still I

disturbed, and the spot is several times i

later writers under the name at Koran

Forum Vespasian i (Amm. Marc xtl

B. G. iv. 21 ; Symm. Ep. x. 78;

Pas**, p. 243.)

The three arches just alluded toasstav

temple of Peace, and apparently at the c

of a road branching off from the Sacra Via,I

as is almost universally admitted, to the f

Cokstantiki, erected by MaxenUus. and f

after his death in the name of Ojrtslantiaa.

architecture has all the characteristics of a I

and could not possibly have been adapted Is I

pie. (Canina, Indicat. p. 124.) Tbe Sn*|

which we find of this building is in Aurtisaal

{Caesar, 40, 26), who mentions it at havi

erected by MaxenUus; and this account iss

by an accident which happened in 193811

the falling in of a part of an arch

the name of Maxentius was discuverad

sonry. {Besckr. iii. 298.) In tbe Cat. i

p. 243, it is mentioned as occupying ttaei

horrea piperai/iriat or spice

tian (" horrea pipemtaria ubi modo -

sUnt iniana et Furum Vespasiani~), r

houses must have been tbe same that i

Dion Cassius (lxxii. 24) to hare first

flames when the temple of Peace wisbsr

and are described as rat jt,.tt, * a< - ^

teal twv Aiyvrrtuf eopnw; wfcena

spread towards the Palatine, it mar be j

they stood on the site of tue baai]*caw

