ROMA. BOMA, 7S3

ift (strain hid the aignificance of a kind of out­

sat of tbt eitj.

Ai iii tbeorj it evidently framed with a view

11 lix trionfb of Vespasian and Titos, and as the

of tint triumph is also one of the main

uT&TifliU addaced by Becker for his Porta Tri-

■jariiii*, it will be necessary to examine it. The

wna're of Joseph us runs as follows (BelL Jwl.

rs.? $4, p. 1305, Hnds.): M The emperor and his

as film iprot the night preceding their triumph

si talk building in the Campus Martins, near

la vaplt of bis, where the army was assembled

t* unbailed. At break of day the emperors

tw fur-tit tod proceeded to the Porticus Octaviae

uv lb* theatre of Marcellus), where, according to

tasi rutom. the senate were assembled to meet

m Vapcian, after offering the usual prayer,

ij ilriivering a abort address, dismissed the troops

> liar breakfast, whilst he himself returned to the

» uoei after the triumphal processions that

■Its saw through it. Here the emperor break-

«<< aid,baring put on the triumphal dress, and

anicad to the gtds whose shrines were at the

u. ccasd the pageant to proceed through the

ai' Becker concludes from this narrative that

»lJ<fti Triumphalis must have been outside the

n, in tbt Campus Martius, and near the public

adi; when the emperor had slept. A further

M* a, as contends, that the procession went

'••Vi 'be o'rei, which must mean the Circus

•*jm» and Circus Maximua; and that this was

■f br shown from Plutarch {Am. Pavll. 32),

bam that Paullus went through the Circi, and

litter passage expressly relates (Lticull 37)

a Lacdlus adorned the Circus Flaininius with

i arcs, Ac which be had taken, which it would

«!««1 to suppose be would have done unless the

•waia plated through that circus. Then conies

afoartiou we hare already noticed, that the

"aia «f Vespasian passed through the arch

nwftd by bis younger son Domitian some years

? a father a death. After passing through the

ut F'aniniui, Becker thiuks that the pro-

ax trot through the P. Carmentalis, and by

tVii Jugarios to the forum, along tho latter

"rtrnoau, and finally through the Vicus Tuscus,

Tiabnun, and Forum Boarium, into the Circus

'ou Baring conducted the emperors thus

aWiar takes lea re of them, and we remain corr-

■7 u tbt dark as to the manner in which they

« of the cocoa and found their way back

• tube furum and Capitol, the usual destina-

^ Indmphant generals.

^iitur; that Becker has here given a true inter-

awe J tbe text of Joseph us as it stands, we

I . to exarnine the conclusions that have

"»rn from it, beginning witii those of Preller.

1 trcer baa very properly assumed (Jiegionen,

K; that if the triumphal arch did not actually

> pneerium it led at all events into a terri-

«■-'/« to tbe jurisdiction of the city, into which

a aaaaful for a general cum imprrio to puss

■* tie permission of the senate. Had not this

iat tat abole hn«in~» would have been a mere vain

•» ■rreoneiiy. The account of Vespasian's tri­

al awes indeed a little repugnant to this view,

I la Bat the senate in tbe Porticus Octaviae,

■ aaUatiappuiiticci was considerably beyond the

*T and wtuch he had therefore crossed before  
ai stained authority to do so. Still more re-

■at a Diam't account of the triumph of Tiberius,

who, we are told, assembled the senate at the same

place precisely on the ground that it was outside of

the pomoerium, and that consequently he did not

violate their privileges by assembling them there

(fj Tf TO 'OKTaoiieioK tt/k £ooA4)i> IjBpourt 5ia to

f{» too vufirjplov atrrb final, Iv. 8). But as these

instances occurred in the imperial times, when it

may be said with Becker (jlandb. p. 151, note)

that the ceremony no longer had any meaning, we

will go back for an example to the early ages of the

Republic. First, however, we must demand the

acknowledgment that the triumphal gate passed by

Vespasian was the same, or at least stood on the

same spot, as that which had been in use from time

immemorial. We cannot allow it to be shifted

about like a castle on a chessboard, to suit the

convenience of commentators; and we make this

demand on the authority of Josephus himself in

tbe very passage under discussion, who tells us

that it took its name from the circumstance that the

triumphal processions had alwayt passed through it

(dtb too tt(ut((t(Au 8i' aor^r del tovs dptifiSous

ttji wpoffiryopiay At' avraw t*tuxuicw). Now

Livy, in his account of the triumph of the consuls

Valerius and Horatius, relates that they assembled

the senate in the Campus Martius to solicit that

honour; but when the senators complained that

they were overawed by the presence of the military,

the consuls called tbe senate away into the Prata

Flaminia, to the spot occupied in the time of the

historian by the temple of Apollo. (" Consules ex

compusito eodem biduo ad urbem accessere, sena-

tumque in Martium Campuin eroemvre. Ubi quum

de rebus a se gestis agerent, qnesti primores Pat ruin,

senatum inter milites dedita opera tcrroris causa

haberi. Itaque inde Consules, ne criminationi esset

locum, in prata Flaminia, ubi nunc aedes Apollinis

(jam turn Apollinare appellabant) avocavere se­

natum," iii. 63.) This temple was situated close

to the Porticus Octaviae (Becker, llandb. p. 605),

and therefore considerably nearer the city than the

spot indicated either by Becker or Preller. Tbe

consuls therefore must have already passed beyond

the Porta Triumphalis before they began to solicit

the senate for leave to do sol

Becker, however, has been more careful, and has

not extended the jurisdiction of the city beyond the

walls of Servius, at this part of the Campus, before

the time of the emperor Claudius. But what re­

sults from his view? That the whole affair of tbe

Porta Triumphalis was mere farce, — that it led

nowhere, — that the triumphant general, when he

bad passed through it by permission of the senate,

was as much outside the city boundary as lie was

befure. But that it afforded a real entrance into

the town clearly appears from the passage in Cicero's

oration against Piso (c. 23); "Cum ego Caelimon-

tana porta introisse dixissem, sponsione me, ni

rCsquilina introisset, homo promtissimus lacessivit.

Quasi vero id aut ego scire debuerim, aut vestrum

quispiam audierit, aut nd rem pertineat qua tu

porta introieris, modo ne triumphali; quae porta

Macedonicis semper proconsulibus ante te patuit."

The Porta Triumphalis being here put on a level with

the Caelimontana and Esquilina, the natural conclu­

sion is that, like them, it afforded an actual, though

not customary, entrance within the walls. We further

learn from the preceding passage that this same

Porta Triumphalis had been open to every proconsul

of Macedonia before Piso, including of course L, Aemi-

lius Paullus, who triumphed over Perseus B.C. 167

3 c

