19S LOCORITUM. INTERNUM.

D'Anville gave up PontSainte-Maxence, and fixed

Litanobriga at Cr*il on the Otse, and along this line

the distances of the Table agree pretty well with the

real distances. Walckenaer fixes Litanobriga at Pont-

Sainte-MaJt-nce. The solution of this difficulty de-

]#nd» on the position of Augustomagus; or if we are

on tent with the evidence for fixing Litanobriga at

Pont Samte-Maxf nee, we cannot place Augusto-

uiagus at Senlis. [Ai'crsTOMAors.] [G. L.]

LITERNUM (A/T«pKoK, Strab.; Atirtpvov,

Ptol.: Eth. Litcrninus: Tor di Patrui), u town on

the sea-coast of Campania, between the nututh of

the Vulturnus and Cumae.* It was situated at the

month of a river of the same name (Strab. v. p. 243:

Liv. xxxii. 29), which assumed a stagnant cha­

racter as it approached the sea, so as to form a con­

siderable marshy pool or lagoon, called the Literna

Palus (Sil. ItaL vii. 278; Stat. Si/r. iv. 3. 66).

and bordered on either side by more extensive

marshes. It is not quite clear whether there was a

town there at all before the establishment of the

Roman colony: Livy's expression (7. c.) that that

colony was sent ** ad ostia Literni fluminis,** would

seem to imply the contrary; and though the name

of Liternum is mentioned in the Second Punic War,

it is in a manner that does not clearly prove there

was then a town there. (Liv. xxiii. 35.) But the

notice in Festus (r. Prarfvcturae), who mentions

Liternum, with Capua, Cumae, and other Campa-

nian towns, among the Praefecturae, must probably

refer to a period earlier than the Roman settlement.

It was not till the year n. c. 194 that a colony

of Roman citizens was settled at Liternum at the

same time with one at Vulturnutn ; they were l»>th

of the class called "coloniae maritimae eivium,** but

were not numerous, only 300 colonists being sent to

each. (Liv. xxxii. 29, xxxiv. 45.) The situation

of Liternum also was badly chosen: the marshy

character of the neighbourhood rendered it unhealthy,

while the adjoining tract on the sea-coast was sandy

and barren; hence, it never seems to have risen to he

a place of any importance, and is chiefly noted from

the circumstance that it was the place which Scipio

Africanus chose for his retirement, when ho with­

drew in disgust from public life, and where he

ended his days in a kind of voluntary exile. (Liv,

xxxviii. 52, 53; Seneca, Ep, 86; Val. Max. v. 3.

§ 1; Oroa. iv. 20.) At a later period, however,

Augustas settled a fresh colony at Liternum {Lib.

Colon, p. 2.15), and the construction by Domitian of

the road leading along the sea-coast from Sinuessa to

Cumae must have tended to render it more frequented.

But it evidently never rose to be a considerable

place: under the Roman Empire its name is men­

tioned only by tiie geographers, and in the Itine­

raries in connection with the Via Domittana already

n<iticed. (Strab. v. p. 243; Mel ii. 4. § 9; Plin.

iii. 5. s. 9; Ptol. iii. 1. § 6; It'm. Ant p. l'_>2;

Tab. Ptut.) We learn, however, that it still existed

as a "civitas" as late as the reign of Valentinian II.

(Symmaeh. Ep. vi 5); and it was probably destroyed

by tlie Vandals in the fifth c*ntury.

The villa of Scipio, where he spent the latter

* The name is written in many MSS. Lintkb-  
*USf, and it is difficult, in the absence of inscriptions,  
to aay which form is really the more correct; but

I.iTCttxt'M seems to be supported, on the whole,

by the best MSS., as well as by the Greek form of

he name as found both in Strabo and Ptolemy.

Teschucke, ad Mel ii. 4. § 9)

years of his life, was still extant in the day? of

iSeneca, who lias left us a detailed description of it,

and strongly contrasts the simplicity of its arrangi-

ments with the luxury and splendour of those *i

his own time. {Ep. 86.) Pliny also tells us, that

some of the olive trees and myrtles planted by the

hands of Scipio himself were still visible there.

(Plin. xvi. 44. s. 85.) It is certain that his tomb

also was shown at Liternum in the days of Strab:) and

Livy, though it would appear that there was great

doubt whether he was really buried there. The

well-known epitaph which, according to Valerias

Maximus, he caused to be engraved on his tomb.—

'* Ingrata patria, ne ossa quidem mea babes,"—cwuH

certainly not have been extant in the time of Seneca,

who treats the question as one of mere conjecture,

though he inclines to the belief that Africanus was

really buried there, and not in the tomb of the

Scipios at Rome. (Seneca. L c.; VaL Max. v. 3.

§ 1 ; Strnb. /. c.; Liv xxxviii. 56.)

The site of Liternum is now marked by a watch -

tower called Tor iii Patria, and a miserable villace

of the same name; the adjoining Logo di Patria

is unquestionably the Literna Palus, and hence

the river Litem us can be no other than the small

and sluggb>h stream which forms the outlet of this

lake to the sea. At the present day the Imqq di

Patria communicates with the river Ctaniu* or

iMgnO) and is formed by one of the anus of tliat

stream. It is not improbable that this waa the

case in ancient times also, for we have no account

of the mouth of the Clanitis, while the Literna* U

mentioned only in connection with the town at its

mouth. [Clanius.] The modern name of Patrim

must certainly have been derived from some traditufl

of the epitapli of St ipio already noticed, though »t

cannot explain the mode in which it arose; b*xt the

name may be traced back as far as the eighth cen­

tury. There are scarcely any ruins on the site of

Liternum, but the remains of the ancient bridge by

which the Via Domitiana here crossed the river are

still extant, and the road itself may be traced from

thence the whole way to Cumae. [E. H. B.]

LITHRUS (AitJooi), the name of the northern

branch of Mount Paryadrcs in Pont us, which, to­

gether with Mount Ophelimus in the north-west of

Amasia, enclosed the extensive and fertile plain of

Phanaroea. (S;rab. xii. p. 556.) Hamilton (Jfr*

searches, toL i. p. 349) believes that these two

ancient bills answer to the modern Kemer D*gk

and Oktap Dagh. [L. &.]

LIVIANA, in Gallia Xarbonensis, is placed by

the Table and the Jerusalem ltin. between C«rrsv*o

(Co,rcos*<m»e)and Narbo(Aaroowae). It is tbr n*it

station to Carcaso, and xii. from it: the tfatiuo that

follows Liviana is Usuerva, or Lineraa, or Hoaoertsv

The site is uncertain. [G. L. 1

LIX, L1XUS. [Maiketanu].

LIZtZIS. [Azizis.]

LOBETA'NI (Awtfnraroi), one of the lewr

peoples in the NE. part of Hispania Tanaoonsessaw

Their position was SE. of the Cki.tiukki. aid X. ef

the Hastktaxi, in the SW. of Arratfon. The ooW

city mentioned as belonging to them was* Lusrn m

(Awffnrot'), which IVAnville identifies with AeywM.

but Ukert with Albarrnc'm. (PtoL ii. 6. § 60; C<wu

np. Seslini, p. ]G9; Ukert, vol. ii. pt. 1, jp 3JS,

464.) [P. S.]

LOBETUM. [Lobetaki ]

LOCORITUM (Ao*o>rw), a town on the river

Main in Germany, and probably the

