704 RHEGIUM. BHEGrUK

where they adjoined the Loerian territory, while the

Locrial) colonies of Medina and Hipponium prevented

their extension on tlie N. Indeed, from the position

of Khegium it seems to have always maintained

closer relations with Sicily, and taken more part in

the politics of that island than in those of the other

Greek cities in Italy. Between the Khegians and

Locrians, however, there appears to have been n con­

stant spirit of enmity, which might he readily

expected between two rival cities, such near neigh­

bours, and belonging to different races. (Time. iv.

1,24.)

Khegium appeal's to liavc participated largely in

the political changes introduced by the Pythagoreans,

and even became, for a short time after the death of

Pythagoras, the head-quarters of his sect (Iambi.

Fit. Pyth 33, 130, 251); but the changes then

introduced do not seem to have been permanent.

It was under the reign of Anaxilas that lihegium

first ruse to a degree of power far greater than it

had previously attained. We have no account of

the circumstances attending the elevation of that

despot to power, an event which took place, ac­

cording to Diodortis, in B.C. 494 (Diod. xi. 48);

but we know that he belonged to one of the ancient

Mcssenian families, and to the oligarchy which had

previously ruled the state. (Strah. vi. p. 257; Pans,

iv. 23. §6; Arist. Pol v. 12; Thuc. vi. 4.) Hence,

when he made himself master of Zanele on the

opposite side of the straits, he gave to that city the

name of Messana, by which it was ever afterwards

known. [Mrcss.\NA.] Anaxilas continued for some

years ruler of both these cities, and thus was undis­

puted master of the Sicilian straits: still further to

strengthen himself in this sovereignty, lie fortified

the rocky promontory of Seyllaeuni, and established

a naval station there to guard the straits against

the Tyrrhenian pirates. (Strah. vi. p. 257.) He

meditated also the destruction of the neighbouring

city of Locri, the perpetual rival and enemy of

Khegium, hut was prevented from carrying out his

purpose by the intervention of Hieron of Syracuse,

who espoused the cause of the Locrians, and whose

enmity Anaxilas did not choose to provoke. (Schol.

ad J'ind. Pyth. h. 34.) One of his daughters was,

indeed, married to the Syracusan despot, whose

friendship he seems to have sought assiduously to

cultivate.

Anaxilas enjoyed the reputation of one of the

mildest and most equitable of the Sicilian rulers

(Justin, iv. 2), and it is probable that lihegium

enjoyed great prosperity under his government. At

his death, in u.r. 47G, it passed without opposition

under the rule of his two sons; hut the government

was administered during their minority by their

guardian Micythus, who reigned over both lihegium

and Messana for nine years with exemplary justice

and moderation, and at the end of that time gave

up the sovereignty into the hands of the two sons of

Anaxilas. (Diod. xi. 48, 00; Herod.vii. 170; Justin,

iv. 2; Macrob. Sat. i. 1 1.) The^e, liowever, did not

hold it long: they were expelled in B.C. 461, the

revolutions which at that time agitated the cities of

Sicily having apparently extended to lihegium also.

(Diod. xi. 70.)

The government of Micythus was marked by one

great disaster: in n.c. 473, the Khegians, having

sent an auxiliary force of 3000 men to assist the

Ta routines against the Iapygians, shared in the

great defeat which they sustained on that occasion

[Tahkntl m]; but the statement of Diodorus that

the barbarians not only pursued tta uj^tn-* «j

gates of Rhegium, but actually mad? ihtz&l^

masters of the city, may be safely rejectfti

dihle. (Diod. xi. 52; Herod, vii. 170; GrsU»4(

of Greece, vol. v. p. 319.) A story told by Jail

that the Khegians being agitated by dgiae£: 4

sensions, a body of mercenaries, who wm aiM\

by one of the parties, drove out their oppwin*. t

then made themselves masters of the ritt bfi

general massacre of the remaining cituste {im

iv. 3), must be placed (if at all) shortly

expulsion of the sons of Anaiilii; bui Uk »h

story has a very apocryphal air; it is ant e

by any other writer, and it is certain Uatifcij

Chalcidic citizens continued in pr«>esH0D«f E

down to a much later period.

We have very little information as to it*

of Khegium during the period which feQsnij

expulsion of the despots; but it seesa u 1

retained ita liberty, in common with th« ar.:^

cities of Sicily, till it fell under the yob ct I*

In B.C.427, when the Athenians sent a 4* ■

Laches and Charoeades to support lise

against Syracuse, the Khegians e>p"as«i "J* d

of the Chalcidic cities of Sicily, and not ar.r> tiit

their city to he made the head-qnartenolA

nian fleet, but themselves furnished a nasi*

auxiliary force. They were in conseqoec*<*2

in continual hostilities with the Lochias- ift^

54; Thuc. iii. 8G, iv. 1. 24. 25.) Bat uVj pa

a different course on occasion of the grot Aiai

expedition to Sicily in B.C. 415. when tie?"

to take any part in the contest; and tier*

have persevered in this neutrality to the e&i J.j

xiii. 3: Thuc. vi. 44, vii. I, 58.)

It was not long after this that the:

power of Dionysius of Syracuse, who bad ■

in succession the chief Chalcidic cities cf S:

came a subject of alarm to the Rhegusr■

b.c. 399 they fitted out a fleet of 50 inr^

an army of 6000 foot .mil 600 h«rse, to =»U

upon the despot. But the Messenians. »4i a<

made common cause with them, bsnrx 0

abandoned the alliance, they were cnmpeWEr

from the enterprise, and inade peace wita ft^

(Diod. xiv. 40.) The latter, who was

creat war with Carthape, was desirous to

friendship of the Khegians; but ha

matrimonial alliance were rejected with i

in consequence concluded such an alliance i

Locrians, and became from this time th» c?

enemy of the Khegians. (/&. 44, 107.) It*

hostility to the latter that he a few years

394), after the destruction of Messina ttytteC

ginians, restoivd and fortified that city. as*|

command the straits, and from whi«"h to osry

enterprises in Southern Italy. The Rher-^

sought toforestal him; they made an nnj*«d

tack upon Messana, and were foiled in tfanr asn

establish a colony of Naxians at >hlar. •* »

offence against the Mes&eni.ms. (/t. S7.) E

year Dionysius, in his tnrn, made a p>3J*

on Khegium itself, bat did not succeed in^

the city; and after ravaging its ternary.

polled to draw off his forces* (fb. 90.) Bat J

390 he resumed the design on a Urper ^

hud regular siege to the city with a fore**' I

foot, 1000 horse, and a fleet of 120 tnnffl»

Khegians, however, opp»»sed a Tin*0*** ^

the fleet of Dionysius suffered severely im*

and the approach of winter at length ctr^

