374 MOTYA. MOSTENI.

mistiike as mil as w« ran. It is possible that both

rivers were called Mosn; and Mosella or M<»ula, as

Floras has it, seems to be a diminutive of Mosa, but

ttmt reading i9 somewhat doubtful. (Floras, iii. 1U.

cd. Dak.) There is no variation in Caesar's text

in the passage where he speaks of the confluence of

the Rhcnus and the Mosa. (Caesar, ed. Schneider.)

Several of the affluents of the Mosel arc mentioned

in the ancient writers, and chiefly by Ausonius: the

Sura (Sour), Pronaea (Prum), Neniesa (A'ims),

(ielbis {Kill), Krubrus (Rurer), Lesura (Lrsrr),

Drahonus (/>roiw), Saravus (Saar), and Salmona

(.S'rt/m).

The Mosella is celebrated in one of the longer

poems of Ausonius, who wrote in the 4th century

A. u. The vine at that time clothed the slopes of

the hills and the cliffs which bound this deep and

picturesque river valley in its course below Trier:

"Qua sublimis apex lnngo super ardua tractu,

Et rapes et aprica jugi, flexusque sinusque

Vitibus adsurgunt naturalique theatro." (v. 154.)

There is a German metrical translation of this poem

by Hocking with note*.

The Mottl rises on the western face of the Votgrt,

and its upper course is in the hill country, formed

by the offsets of the mountains. It then enters the

plain of Lorraine, and after passing Tullum ( TouT),

it is joined by the Mrurthe on the right bank.

From the junction of the Meuriht it is navigable,

and has a general north course past Divodurum

(.Vete), and Thionritle, to Augusta Trevirorum

(Trier or Treves). From Trier its general course

is about NNK. with many great bends, and in a

bed deep sunk below the adjacent country, to its

junction with the Rhine at C'xMnu. The whole

course of the river is somewhat less than 300 miles.

It is navigable for steamboats in some seasons as

far as Mriz.

A Roman governor in Gallia proposed to unite

the Mosella and the Arar (.Sonne) by a canal, and

thus to effect a navigation from the Mediterranean

to the North Sea [Galua Traxsai.piha, Vol. I.

p. 967.] TO. L.]

MOSTE'NI (Moffrtirof), a town of Lydia in the

Hyrcanian plain, south-east of Thvatira, and on the

road between this latter town and Sardis. In A. D.

17, Mosteni and many other towns of that country

were visited by a fearful earthquake. (IVI. v. 2.

§ 16; Tac. Ann. ii. 17 ; Hirrocl. p. 671, where it

is erroneously called Moo-Mini or MdffTira; Concil.

Chair, p. 240. where it bears the name Moi/o-r^rjj.)

Its exact site is unknown. (Comp. Rasrhe. l*ex.

Num. iii. 1. p. 869, &•■•.) [L. S.]

MOSYCHLVS. [I.kmnos.]

MOSVNOECI, MOS8YN0ECI, MOSYNI, MOS-

SYNI (Moo-woiKoi, MotraiyoiKot, Mwrvvol, Motr-

trwol), a tribe on the coast of Pontus, occupying the

district between the Tibarrni and Macrones, and con­

taining the towns of Crrasis and Pharmacia.

The Mnsynoeci were a brave and warlike people, but

are at the same time said to have been the rudest

and most uncivilised among all the tribes of Asia

Minor. Many of their peculiar customs are noticed

by tho Greeks, »ho planted colonics in their districts.

They are said to have lived on trees and in towers.

(Strab. xii. p. 549.) Their kings, it is said, were

elected by the people, and dwelt in an isolated tower

rising somewhat above the houses of his subjects,

who watched his proceedings cli»<-ly, and provided

him with all that was necessary j but when he did

anything that displeased them, tbey stopped

supplies, and left him to die of starvation. (Xcav.

A nab. v. 4, § 26; Apollon. Rliod. ii. 1027; Iliad.

xiv. 30; Scymnus, h'ragm. 166.) They used to

cut off the heads of the enemies tbey hail slain, and

carry them abont amid dames and songs. (Xa*.

Anab. iv. 4. § 17; v. 4. § 15.) It is also rrtatad

that they knew nothing of marriage (Xen. An*t>.

v. 4. § 33; Diod. I c), and that they generally

tattooed their bodies. Eating and drinking was

their greatest happiness, win nee the children of lb*

wealthy among them were regularly fattened with

salt dolphins and chestnuts, until they were aa thick

as they were tall (Xen. Anab. v. 4. § 32). Tbeir

arms consisted of heavy spears, six cubits in length,

with round or globular handles; large shields of

wicker-work covered with ox-hides ; and leather or

wooden helmets, the top of which was adorned wita.

a crest of hair. (Xen. /. ft, r. 4. § 12; Herod, vii.

78.) The fourth chapter of the filth book of Xruo-

phon's Anabasis is full of curious information about

this singular people. (Comp. also Strab. xi. p. 528;

Hecat. Fragm. 193; Steph. B. 1. v.; Herod, iii. 94;

Scylax, p. 33.; Amm. Marc. xxii. 8 ; Orph. Aryim.

740; Mela, i. 19; Tibull. iv. I. 146; Curtius, vi.

4, 17; Plin. vi.4; Val. Flacc. v. 152; Dionvs. Per.

766.) [L. S.]

MOTK'XE. [Crrant.]

MOTYA (Morvn: Elk. Morvaibf: S.Pantnlco),

a city on the W. coast of Sicily, between Drepanum

and I.ilvbaeum. It was situated on a small i»hrJ,

about three quarters of a mile (six stadia) from the

mainland, to which it was joined by an artificial

causeway. (Diod. xiv. 48.) It was orizinally a

colony of the Phoenicians, who were fond of clink­

ing similar sites, and probably in the first instance

merely a commercial station or emporium, but gra­

dually rose to be a flourishing and important town.

The Greeks, however, according to their custom,

assigned it a legendary origin, and derived its niiM

from a woman named Motya, whom they connected

with the fables concerning Hercules. (Stops. B. » r.)

It passed, in common with the other Phomkian set­

tlements in Sicily, at a later period under the govern­

ment or dependency of Carthage, whence Ihodorns

calls it a Carthaginian colony; but it is probable

that this is not strictly correct. (Thuc. vi. J; \h-xi.

xiv. 47.) As the Greek colonies in Sicily increased

in numbers and importance the Phoenicians rra-

dually abandoned their settlements in the immediate

neighbourhood of the new comers, and cndceritrstej

themselves in the three principal colonies of Sola*.

Panormus, and Motya. (Thuc. L c.) The last of

these, from its proximity to Carthage and its if-

portune situation for communication with Africa, aa

well as the natural strength of its position, herajre

one of the chief strongholds of the Cartliacinians, aa

well as one of the most importsnt of their owr>-

mercial cities in the island. (Dual xiv. 47.) Il

appears to have held, in both these respects, the

same position which was attained at a Later prrwd

by Lilybaenm. [I.ilydaktm.] Notwithstajviina;

these accounts of its early importance and flourish­

ing condition, the name of Motya is rarely mentioned

in history until just before the period of its me­

morable siege. It il first mentioned by Hecataeoe

(np.Steph. B. $. v.), and Tliucydide* notion it anveig

the chief colonies of the Phoenicians in Sicily, whtca

still subsisted at the period of the Athenian expe­

dition, n. r. 415. (Thur. vi. 2.) A few yean -Urr

(n. c. 409) when the Carthaginian army under

