990 SICYON.

SIC\

Corinthian golf. Strabo (yvli. p. 3R2) correctly de­

scribes it as occupying a strong hill distant 20 stadia

from the sea, though he adds that others made the

distance 12 stadia, which may, however, have refer­

ence to the lower town built at the foot of the table-

height. Upon this height the modern Tillage of Ftist-

likd now stands. It is defended on every side by a

natural wall of precipices, which c in be ascended only

by'oneortwo narrow pa>sa::es from the plain. A

river flows upon either side of the height, the one on

the eastern side being the Asopus, and that on the

western side the Ilelisson. When Sicyon was at

tlie height of its pnwer, the city consisted of three

parts, the Acropulis on the hill of Vitsilika, the

lower town at its foot, and a port-town upun the

coast. The port-town was well fortified. (2i»ci»-

oiv'iwv \i^)v, Xen. IlelL vii. 3. § 2; Polyb. v. 27;

Paus. ii. 12. § 2; Strab. /. c.)

II. Ilist'riii. — Sicyun was one of the most an­

cient cities of Greece, and is said to have existed

under the name of Af.giai.kia (AryidAeict, Paus. ii.

5. § G) or ASOIAU (Alytakoi, Strab. viii. p. 382)

long before the arrival of Pclops in Greece. It was

also called Mf.conk. (MTjKa-er;), which was ap[»a-

rently its sacerdutal name, and under which it is

celebrated as the "dwelling-place of the blessed,"

and as the sjxit where Prometheus instituted the Hel­

lenic sacrifices and deceived /.ens. (Steph. B. *. v.

2iKuwr; Strab. viii. p. 382; Cailim. Fragm. 195, p.

5l3,ed. Ernesti; Hesiod. Theog.53bS) Its name Tkl-

ClllNiA (Tt\xiVia) 'Ias reference to its being one of

the e irliest seats of the workers in metal. (Steph. B.

t. v. "XtKvvv). Its name Aegialeia was derived

from a mythical autochthon Aegialeus, and points

to the time when it was the chief city upon the

southern coast of the Corinthian gulf, the whole of

which was called by the same name. Its later

name of Sicyon was said to have been derived from

nn Athenian of this name, who became king of the

lily, and who is represented as a son of either Ma­

rathon or Met ion. (Pans. ii. 6. § 5.) This legend

points to the fact that the early inhabitants of

Sicyun were Ionian*. Aegialeus is said, in some

traditions, to have been the son of Inachns, the

first king of Argos, and the brother of Phoroneus.

A long series of the successors of Aegialeus is given,

among whom one of the most celebrated was the

Argive Adrastus, who, being expelled from his own

dominions, fled to Polybus, then king of Sicyon, and

afterwards succeeded him on the throne. (Kuseb.

Chron. p. 11, seq.; August Civ. JJei, xviii. 2; Pans,

ii. 6. 6, 7.) Homer indeed calls Adrastus first

king of Sicyon (Horn. //. ii. 572); and we know

that in historical limes this hero was worshipped

in the city. (Herod, v. 67.) Sicyon was subse­

quently conquered by Agamemnon, who, however,

left Hippolytns on the throne; but Sicyon became a

tributary city to Mycenae. (Pans. ii. 6. 6, 7;

Horn. II. ii. 572. xxiii. 21)9.) Hippolytns was the

grandson of Phaestus, who was a son of Hercules;

and in consequence of this connection, the inhabit­

ants were not expelled or reduced to subjection

upon the conquest of the city by the Dorians under

Phalces, the son of Temenns; for while the Dorian

Conquerors, as in all other Doric states, were di­

vided into three tribes under the names of Hylleis,

Pamphyli, and Dymanatae, the original Sicyoniani

were formed into a fourth tribe, under the name of

Aegialeis, which possessed the same political rights

as the other three. (Paus. ii. 6. § 7; Strab. viii.

p. 3S9; Herod, v. 68.) Sicyon was now a Dorian

state; and from this tii

It was at first dependent

which was for some time

the Peloponnesus, Sparta

First Measenau War th<

side of the. Messenians a

Arcadians. (Pans, iv.

Messenian War, about

subject to the tyranny

governed the city for i

whose rule is praised by

for its mildness. The I

belonged to the non-D>

tinuance of their power

the fact of their being

population against the I

goras, the founder of tl

been originally a cook.

Phot. cod. 279, p. 530;

Retake ) In other nrejs

as the first of the Sic;

126; Diod. Fragm. Vat

that he is the same jei

two names do not occur

was succeeded by his son

riot victory at Olympia

Aristonymus; and Ad

(Herod, vi. 126; Paus. ii

latter was celebrated fa

cence, and was also di

hatred against Argos, an

to depress and dishouoi

changed the ancient an

three Dorian tribes into t

atae, Oneatae, and Choer

words signifying the so

while he declared the si

by giving it the designat

the people. Cleisthenes

despot till his death, wl

b. c 560. The dynasti

left no son; but his <to

many suitors wooed, wa_-

llsgaclss, of the great fa

and became the mother

of the Athenian deuiocr

the Peisistratidae. The

by Cleisthenes continued

the death of the tyrant, i

the ancient names were

—131; Grute, Hist, of

Diet, of Biogr. art. Clk

A Dorian reaction a[

place, for during a k

Sicyonians were the stei

In the invasion of Greet

the Sicyon ians sent a

Salamis (Herod, viii. 4

hoplites to Plataea. (

interval between the Pers

the territory was twice i

the Athenians, first unc1

(Tone. i. 108; Paus. i. 2

under Pericles, b. c. 454

88). A few years later

supported the Mega . -

(Thuc. i. 114.) In th

sided with Sparta, and be

the Peloponnesian fleet.

b. c. 424 the Sicyoniani

operations against the i

