'SARMATIA. 917 SARMATIA.

Fr Agalkyrsi, see Hunni. The Sargatii arc

:tiooeJ in Ptolemy.

Sutii of tlie Tanaitae came the Osuli (? SuMrzi

Xotor), reaching as far as the Roxolani, i. e.

•iirinr parts of Cherson and Ekaterinoslav.

Ketvam the Roxolani and Hamaxobii the

■itUni and Exobugitae. The statement of Pliny

J the tlamaxobii were Aorsi, combined with sitni-

■' of name between Aorsi and Ersad, will not

f m here. The Ersad are in the governments

/Vua and Tandov; the direction of the Ha-

uAti u more westward. Rhakalani seems but

titr form of Roxolani. In Exo-pt^-itae the

■Us syllable may give us the root Bug, the

:sn name of the Hypanis. It has been surmised

I ttu is tbe case with Sa-6o£-ae, and Costo-ftoc-i.

■ fatality would suit

Ittwceu the Peucini and Bastemae (this differ-

'aetween two nations otherwise identified creates

>t ^ication) lie the Carpiani, above whom the

si aad Budini.

Ik Carpi must bare been near or on the Carpa-

• Mtmttains. They appear as a substantive

* in the later history of Rome, in alliance with  
Ssnmtae. &c. of the Dacian frontier. We have

rt&na Carpica Arpi; Carpiani and Kapvotd-

>bk-h Zeoss renders Carpathian Dacians) are

il forms of this name [CaRi'l]. They, along

lift Costoboci, Armadoci, and Astingi, Hppeur as

e»t important frontagers of Northern Dacia.

tbe Bastemae and Roxolani tbe Chnni,

beir own mountains (fori ra ibta 6prj)

md Kavari, and along tbe lake

•b) of Byke the Torekkadae, and along the

tueui Course ('Ax*AAewr tpdpoy) the Tauro-

ar.and south of the Bastarnae in the direction

eu the Tagri, and south of them the Tyran-

and Tyrangetae, see «. rr. and

trn looks like a modified form of Zagora (tra-

<—). a common Slavonic geographical name,

able to many localities.

t Amadori occupied Ilia Son, or the Mons

■ rat of Ptolemy. There was also a A/jurf

U<a. This jnsta-position of a mountain and

ojJ, or swamp, or fen) should fix their locality

<M*ly than il does. Their history connects

with tbe Coeloboci. (Zeuss, *- nr. Costo-

.tnooori.) The physical conditions, how-

r»«*e out lea* clearly than our present topo-

i> ti knowledge of Podolia, Minsk, &c. explains,

w Xavari see Nkiki.

■ tame Chnni is important. [See HunNl ]

Totk-aad-ae and Kxo-bug-itae we have two

Us of an apparent cornponnd that frequently

> la rKytbo-Sarrnatian geography—Tyn-gtt-ae,

'«!.> ioi-i. Sa-boc-L The geography is quite

i'll lt in the presence of these elements.

lks. —From the Vistula eastwards, the Chro-

i- Khubim, the Turuntus, the Chersinos,—the

the modem names being the Pregel, Memel,

At, and Neva. For the drainage of the

$ra, see Sctthi »•

rnsci*.—Peticw, the Montes Amadoci, the

Ru-imai, the Mons Alaunus, the Mons Car-

s, the Venedic mountains, the Rhipaean moun-

None of these are definitely identified. It is

k to say how Ptolemy named tbe most hu­

ll rang* of so Bat a tract as Russia, viz., tbe

u If usifiii'ai On the other hand, the names of |

his text imply more mountains than really exist.

All his mountains were, probably, spurs of the Car­

pathians, just as in Sarmatia Asiatics they were of

Caucasus.

Towns.—See Scythia.

II. SARMATIA ASIATICA.

The boundaries are—the Tanais, from its sources

to its mouth, European Sarmatia from the sources

of the Tanais northwards, the Maeotis and Cim­

merian Bosporus, the Euxine as far as the river

Corax, the range of Caucasus, the Caspian as far

as the river Soana, the Volga as far as its bend

(Scythia being on the east of that river), — and on

the north an Unknown Land. Without knowing the

point at which this terra incognita begins, it is

impossible to give the northern limits of Sarmatia

Asiatica. It is included, however, in the govern­

ments of Caucasus, Circassia, Astrakhan, lion

Kosaks, Saratov, Simbirsk, Kazan, Vintka, Kos­

troma, Vladimir (?), Nizhni Novogorod, Jiiazan

(?), Tambov, and Penza ; all the governments, in

short, on the water system of the Volga; a view which

makes the watershed between the rivers that empty

themselves into the White Sea and the rivers that

fall into the Caspian and Euxine a convenient pro­

visional boundary.

For the obscure geography of Asiatic Sarmatia,

the bend of the Tanais is our best starting point.

To the north of it dwelt the Pcrierbidi, a great

nation; to the south the Iaxamatae, the former in

Don Kosaks, Voronezh, and Tambftv, Saratov, the

latter in Astrakhan. North of the Perierbidi come

the Asaei, the Snardeni, the Zacatae, the Hip-

pophagi Sarmatae, the Modocae, tbe Royal Sar-

matians, the Hyperborean Sarmatians, the Un­

known Land. In Kazan and Simbirsk we may place

the Cliaenides, and on the east of the Volga the

Phtbeirophagi and Mated. The Nno-iorm \upa

must be at the mouth of the Volga. If so, the

order in which the names have been given is from

north to south, and the Phtbeirophagi are in

Eastern Kazan, the Materi in Saratov.

The remaining populations are all (or nearly all)

in the governments of Caucasus and Circassia. in

the northern spurs of the Caucasian range. They

are the Siraceni, the Psessii, the Thymeotae, the

Turambae, the Asturicani, the Arichi, the Zicchi,

the Conapoeui, the Meieibi, the Agoritae, the

Melanchlaeni, the Sapothmeni, the Scymnitae, tho

Amazones, the Sunani, the Sacani, the Orinaei,

the Vali, the Servi, the Tusci, the Diduri, the

Vodae, the Olondae, the Isondae, the Gerrhi. The

Achaei, Kerketi, Heniochi, Suanocolchi, and Sa-

naraci are truly Caucasian, and belong to the

geography of tlie mountain range rather than the

tSarmatian plains and steppes — for such they am

in physical geography, and such was the view of

Straho, so far as he noticed fannatia at all.

It is difficult to determine the source of Ptolemy's

information, difficult to say in what language we

are to seek for the meaning of his names. The

real populations, as they actually exited, were not

very different from those of the Herodotean Scythia;

yet the Herodotean names are wanting. These were,

probably, Scythian, — the northern populations to

which they applied being Uprian. Are the names

native? For the parts due north of Caucasus they

may be so; indeed it is possible that the greater

numlier of them may be due to a Caucasian source.

At the present time, when wc are fairly supplied with

3 N 3

