LARISSA. LARIX.

retreat of the Ten Thousand Greeks. It appears to

have been situated a little to the north of the junction

of the Lycus (Z<tb) and the Tigris. Xenophon

<loseril)cs it as a deserted city, formerly built by the

Medes, with a wall 25 feet broad, and 100 high,

and extending in circumference two parasangs. Tin:

wall itself was constructed of bricks, but had a

foundation of stone, 20 feet in height (probably a

casing in stone over the lower portion of the bricks).

He adds, that when the Persians conquered the

Modes, they were not at first able to take this city,

hut at last captured it. during a dense fog. Adjoin­

ing the town was a pyramid of stone, one plethron

broad, and two plethra in height. It has been con­

jectured that this was the bite of the city of Resen,

mentioned in Genesis (x. 12); and there can be

little doubt, that these ruins represent those of

Nimrud, now 50 well known by the excavations

which Mr. L ivard lias conducted. [^"0

LARISSA (i\dpt(T-ra), a city of Syria, placed by

Ptolemy in the district of Cassiotis, in which An-

tiiicli was situated (v. 15. § 16), but probably iden­

tical with the place of the same name which,

according to Strabo, was reckoned to Apamia (xvi.

p. 572), and which is placed in the Itinerary

of Antoninus 10 M. P. from Apamia, on the road

to Kniesa. D'Anville identifies it with the mo­

dern Kalant Shyzor, 011 tiie left bank of the

OfOiites, between JI amah and Kalaat el-Mtdgk

or Apamia. [G. \\".]

LAKISSUS or LARISUS, a river of Achaia.

[Vol. I. p. 14, a/]

LA'RIL'S LACUS (y Adpios Xluvy: Logo di

Como), one of tlie largest of the great lakes of

Northern Italy, situated at the foot of the Alps, and

firmed by the river Addua, (Strab. iv, p. 192;

Plin. iii. 19. s. 23.) It is of a peculiar form, long

and narrow, but divided in its southern portion into

two great arms or brandies, forming a kind of fork.

The S\Y\ of these, at the extremity of which is

situated the city of Como, has no natural outlet;

the Addua, which carries off the superfluous waters

of the lake, flowing from its SE. extremity, where

stands the modern town of Lecco. Virgil, where he

is speaking of the great lakes of Northern Italy,

gives to tlie Larius the epithet of "maxiinus"

{Geoff/, ii, 15*j); and Senilis, in his note on the

passage, tells us that, according to Cato, it was

60 miles long. Tins estimate, though greatly

overrated, seems to have acquired a sort of tra­

ditionary authority: it is repeated by Cassiodorus

{Var. Ep. xi. 14), and even in the Itinerary of

Antoninus (p. 278), and is at tlie present day

still a prevalent notion among the boatmen on the

lake. The real distance from Como to tlie head of

the lake does not exceed 27 Italian, or 34 Roman

miles, to which five or six more may be added for

the distance by water to Rica, the Logo di Hint

being often regarded as only a portion of the larger

lake. Strabo, therefore, is not far from the truth in

estimating tlie Larius as 300 stadia (37} Roman

mile>) in length, and 30 in breadth. (Strab. iv.

p. 209.) But it is only in a few places that it at­

tain-, this width; and, owing to its inferior breadth,

it is really much smaller than the Henaeus {Logo

di Gardu) or Verbanus {Lago Maggiort). Its

waters are of great depth, and surrounded on all

sides by hidi mountains, rising in many places

very abruptly from the shore: notwithstanding which

their lower slopes were clothed in ancient times, as

they btill arc at the present day, with rich groves

of olives, and afforded space for ntimerTtlltt.

Among these (he most celebrated are those of tlx

younger Pliny, who was himself a native ofC<>rnum,

and whose paternal estate was situated on the banlu

of the lake, of which last he always speaks with

affection as ''Larius noster." {Ep. ii. 8, vl 24,

vii. 11.) Hut, besides this, he had two villas of a

more ornamental character, of which he gives some

account in his letters {Ep. ix. 7): the one situa'ed

on a lofty promontory projecting out into the waters

of the lake, over which it commanded a very extru­

sive prospect, the other close to tlie water's edge.

The description of the former would suit well with

the site of the modern Villa Serbelloni near Bellaggio;

but there are not sufficient grounds upon which to

identify it. 'Hie name of Villa Plmiana i? given at

the present day to a villa about a mile beyond the

village of Tortio (on the right side of the lake going

from Como), where there is a remarkable intermit­

ting spring, which is also described by Pliny {Ep.

iv. 30) ; but there is no reason to suppose that this

was the site of either of his villas. Claudian briefly

characterises the scenery of the Larius Lac us in a

few line- (if. Get 319—322); and Cas&iodorus giu-s

an elaborate, but very accurate, description of its

beauties The immediate banks of the lake were

adorned with villas or palaces (praetoria), abtve

which spread, as it were, a girdle of olive wood*;

over these again were vineyards, climbing up tltf

sides of the mountains, the bare and rocky summits

of which rose above the thick chesnut-woods that

encircled them. Streams of water fell into the laVe

on all sides, in cascades of snowy whiteness. (Ca>-

fiiod. far. xi. 14.) It would be difficult to de­

scribe more correctly the present aspect of the Lai*

of Como. the beautiful scenery of which is the

theme of admiration of all modern travellers.

Cassiodorus repeats the tale told by the elder

Pliny, that the course of the Addua could 1* traced

throughout the length of the lake, with winch it did

not mix itswaters. (Plin. ii. lOo. *. 106; Cassiod.

I. c.) The same fable is told of the Lacus Lemna-

nus, or Lake of Geneva, and of many other lakes

formed in a similar manner by the stagnation of a

large river, which enters them at one end and flows

out at the other. It is remarkable that we have DO

trace of an ancient town as existing on the ate of

the modern Lecco, where the Addua issues from the

lake. We learn, from the Itinerary of Antoninus

(p. 278), that the usual course in proceeding from

Curia over the Rhaetian Alps to Mediolanum, was

to take boat at the head of the lake and proceed by

water to Coinum. This was the route by which

Stilicho is represented by Claudian as pnxveding

across the Alps (if. Get. 1. c.) ; and Cassiodorus

speaks of Coinuin as a place of great trairic of tra­

vellers (/. c.) In the latter ages of the Roman

empire, a fleet was maintained uj>oti the lake, tba

head-quarters of which were at Cotuum. (Aoi.

&ign. ii. p. 118.)

The name of Lacus Larius seems to have bc#n

early superseded in common usage by that of LaCCI

Comacim's, which is already found in the Itinerary

as well as in Paulas Diaconus, although the lattd

author uses also the more classical appellatKKi

(/fin. Ant. I. c; P. Diac. I/ist. v. 38, 3D.) [E.H.B/

LARIX or LARICE, a place on the souther

frontier of Norieum, at the foot of the Julian Alp"

and on the road from Aquileia to Lauriacum. *1 h

town seems to have owed its name to the forests <

larch trees which abound in that district, and its til

