348 MKTArONTUM. METAUBCS.

ticular honours to Aristeas. who was said to hare

appeared in their city 340 years after he had dis­

appeared from Cyzicua. They erected to him a

statue in the middle of the furum, with an altar to

Apollo surrounded bj a grove of laurels. (Herod, iv.

15; Allien, xiii. p. 605, c.) From their coins they

would appear also to have paid heroic honours to

Leucippus, as the founder of their city. (Millingen,

I. c. p. 24.) Strabo tells us, as a proof of their

Pylian origin, that they continued to perform sacri­

fices to the Neleidae. (Strah. vi. p. 264.)

The it'- and remains of Mctapontum have been

carefully examined by the Due de Luynes, who has

illustrated them in a special work (Mctaponte, fol.

Paris, 1833). It is remarkable that no trace exists

of the ancient walls or the theatre of which Pausa-

nias speaks. The most important of the still existing

monuments is a temple, the remains of which occupy

a slight elevation near the right bank of the Bra­

danus, about 2 miles from its mouth. They arc

now known as the Tavola dti PaUidini. Fifteen

columns are still standing, ten on one side and five

on the other; but the Uvo ends, as well as the whole

of the entablature above the architrave and the walls

of the cella, have wholly disappeared. The archi­

tecture is of the Doric order, but its proportions are

lighter and more slender than those of the celebrated

temples of Pacstum: and it is in all probability of

later date. Some remains of another temple, but

prostrate, and a mere heap of ruins, are visible

nearly 2 miles to the S. of the preceding, and a short

distance from the month of the Biadanus. This

spot, called the Chieta di Santone, appears to mark

the site of the city itself, numerous foundations of

buildings having been discovered all around it. It

may be doubted whether the more distant temple

was ever included within the walls; but it is im­

possible now to trace the extent of the ancient city.

The Torre di Mare, now the only inhabited spot on

the plain, derives its name from a castellated edifice

ot the middle ages; it is situated above 1) mile

from the sea, and the same distance from the river

Jiasiento, the ancient Casucntus. Immediately op­

posite to it, on the sea-shore, is a small salt-water

bisin or lagoon, now called the Logo di Sta, Ptla-

yina. which, though neither deep nor spacious, in

all probability foimed the ancient port of Meta-

pontum.

Mi'tapontum was thus situated between the two

rivers Bradanus and Casucntus, and occupied (with

its port and appurtenances) a considerable part of

the intennediate spare. Appian speaks of " a river

between Metapontum and Tarentum of the game

name" by which he probably means the Bradanus,

which may have been commonly known as the river

of Metapontum. This is certainly tho only river

large enough to answer to the description which he

gives of the meeting of Octavian and Antony which

took place on its banks. (Appian, li. C. v. 93, 94.)

The coins of Metapontum, as already observed,

OOUt or MLTAfOXTfM.

are very numerous; and many of the later ones of

very beautiful workmanship. Those of man an­

cient date are of the style called Mease, like the

early coins of Crotona and Sybaris. The one is the

annexed figure has on the obverse the head of die

hero Leucippus, the founder of the city. But U*

more common type on the obverse is the bead of

Ceres. [E. H. B-]

MKTARIS (Mrrapfr, PtoL ii. 3. § 6), an eatt-

ary in Britain; the Walk between Aorfolt and

Lincolnshire. | i I. -

METAURUM (Mdnupos, Stepb. B.), a city oa

the W. coast of Bruttium, at the mouth of the river

of the same name. According to Stephanas of

Byzantium, it was a colony of the Locrians, bat

seems never to have risen to any importance: at*)

its name is chiefly known because, according to sooe

accounts, it was the birthplace of the poet So-..

chorus, who was more generally regarded as a native

of Himera. (Steph. B. i. v.; Suid. it. !-■.•■■

Xopos.) Stephanos erroneously calls it a city of

Sicily; but Suidas, who writes the name Malanria,

correctly places it in Italy: and there ou be do

doubt that both mean the town at the month of the

Metaurus, which is called by Latin writers Mi-

tanrum. Solinus ascribes its foundation to tl*

Zanclaeans. Mela mentions it as if it were a stul

existing town; bat Strabo speaks only of the river

Metaurus, with an anchorage or roadstead of the

same name: and Pliny also notices the river (" Me­

taurus amnis ") without any mention of a town of

the name. (Strab. vi. p. 256; Plin. iii. S. a. 10,

Mel. ii. 4. § 8: Solin. 2. § II.) [E. H. B ]

METAURUS (MeVaupoj). 1. A river of I'mUia,

flowing into the Adriatic sea, near f'ano, and one of

the most considerable of the numerous stream* whi:h

in this part of Italy descend from the eastern decli­

vity of the Apennines into the Adriatic It is still

called the iletauro ot Metro; and has ill sources is

the high group of Apennines called the Monte Serome,

from whence it has a course of between 40 and 50

miles to the sea. It flows by Fottombrone (Forum

Sempronii), and throughout the latter part of its

court* was followed by the great highroad of tl*

Flaminian Way, which descended the valley of taw

Caniiano, one of the principal tributaries of las

Metaurus, and emerged into the main valley of the

latter river a few miles below the pass of lntmasa

or // Furlo. Its mouth is about 2 miles S. atFmmm

(Fanum Fortnnae), but has no port; and the river

itself is justly described by Silios Italicna a* a

violent and torrent-like stream. (Strab. v. p. 237;

Plin. iii. 14. s. 19; Mel. Li. 4. § 5; Si! ItaLviii. 449;

Lucan, ii. 405.)

The Metaurus is celebrated in history for the great

battle which was fought on its banks in B. c 8t)7,

between Hasdruhal, the brother of Hannibal, and the

Roman consuls C. Claudius Nero and 31. Livius, in

which the former was totally defeated and alam,—a

battle that may be considered as the real twnasj-

point of the Second Punic War, and therefore one */

the most important in history. (Liv. i\ 46—

51; Oros. iv. 18; Eutrop. iii. 18; Viet, sir Yir. 13.

48; Hot. Cam. iv. 4. 38; Sil. lUL rii 4*6.) Un­

fortunately our knowledge of the topngraphy and

details of the battle is extremely imperfect. Bet

we learn from Livy, the only author who has left

us a connected narrative of the operations, that 1L

l.ivius was encamped with his army under the waist

of Sena (i. e. Sena dallies, now Siniynylm). aaal

liasdrubal at a short distance from him. But as

