NIGEIRA. 429 NILI PALL'DES.

fhe Nile in size. Chudian could not have intended

br this river, the Ger of Pliny (v. 1), at the foot of

Mt. Atlas, and a desert of black sand and burnt

nicks (.Yun .'), at which Paullinus arrived in a few

days' journey from the maritime part of Mauretania;

though it is probable that he may have intended,

rrf the Geir of Ptolemy, but the Nigeir. The ter­

mination Ger was pp.bably a generic word, applied

to all rivers and waters in N. Africa, as well as

the prefix Ni; both were probably derived from the

Semitic, and came through the Phoenicians to the

Greets. By a not unnatural error, the word became

connected with the epithet " Niger," and thus the

ns'iie Nigritae or Nigretes was synonymous with

Svh'm ('.he Blacks); the real etymology of the name

tends to explain the common belief of the Africans,

that all the waters of their country flow to the

Nile. It is from this notion of the identity of all

the waters of N. Africa that Pliny received the

absurd account of the Nile and Niger, from the

sreond Jnba of Numidia. He reported that the

Nile bad its origin in a mountain of Lower Maure­

tania, not far from the Ocean, in a stagnant lake

ca W Xilis; that it flowed from thence through

fan.ir deserts, in which it was concealed for several

days; that it reappeared in a great lake in Maure­

tania Caesariensis; that it was again hidden for

t»cctr days in deserts; and that it rose again in the

Kmrces of the Nigris, which river, after having sepa­

rated Africa from Aethiopia, and then flowed through

the middle of Aethiopia, at length became the

Irnnch of the Nile called Astapus. The same fable,

th'ioch without the Nigeir being mentioned, is

alluded to by Strabo (xvii p. 826; comp. Vitrav.

riii 1 § 16); while Mela (iii. 9. § 8) adds that the

river at its source was also called Dara, so that

the river which now bears the name El-Dhara

mmlJ seem to be the stream which was the reputed

wmmencement of the Nile. The Niger of Pliny was

ebviouily a dinerent river, both in its nature and po-

siti<*i, from the Ger of the same author. It was situ­

ated to the S. of the great desert on the line separating

Africa from Aethiopia; and its magnitude and pro-

dnrtMOs, snch as the hippopotamus and crocodile,

cartw be made to correspond to any of the small

rivers of the Atlas. Neither do these swell at the

nine season as the Nile, being fed, not by tropical

ram, falling in greatest quantity near the summer

aeUtice, but by the waters of the maritime ridges,

•Huch are most abundant in winter. The Niger is

a* mentioned by the Geographer of Ravenna, nor

the Arabs, until the work of Joannes Leo Africanus

—a Spanish Moor—which was written at Rome, and

pibliined hi Latin, a. r>. 1556. Though his work is

'■u*x valuable, in being the only account extant of the

knidation of the Negro empires of Sudan, yet he is

is error upon this point, as though he had .sailed on

the river near Timbuktu; lie declares that the stream

dt*s not flow to the E., as it is known to do, but

to the W. to Cento or Jenne. This mistake led

KaroDrana to look for its estuary in the Senegal,

Gambia, and Rio Grande, The true course of the

rnvr. which has now been traced to its mouth, con­

firms the statements of the ancients as to the great

river which thev uniformly describe as flowing from

W. to E. [E. B. J.]

NKiEiBA. [Nigritae.]

NIGEB-PULLUS, Nigropullom, or Nigropullo, in

X-anh Gallia, is placed by the Theodosian Table on

a road from Lugdunum Batavorum (Iseidcn) to No-

vioraju (Aynwyaen). The distance is marked

11 from Albiniana (Alfen), ascending the Rhine.

Ukert (Gallien, p. 533) quotes a Dutch author, who

says that there is a village near Woerden still

called Zwarte Kuikenbuurt. (D'Anville, Notice,

cjo.) [G. L.]

NIGRI'TAE, NIGRE'TES (Xtyphai, Strab. ii.

p. 131, xvii. p. 826; Ptol. iv. 6. § 16; Agathcm.

ii. 5; Mela, i. 4. § 3, iii. 10. § 4; Plin. v. 8;

Nryprjrfj, Strab. xvii. p. 828; Dionys. v. 215;

Steph. B.), an African tribe who with the Pharnsii

were said to have destroyed the Tyrian settlements

on the coast of the Atlantic, and though adjacent

to the W. Aethiopians, were distant only thirty

journeys from Linx or Lixus (ELAraisK). Strabo,

as it appears, had no knowledge, or, at least, placed

no confidence, in any information which may have

reached him as to the countries more to the S. than

Fezzan. But if he was so ignorant of Libya, and

particularly of the position of the W. Aethiopians

(comp. p. 839), no great weight can be attached to

his testimony, that the Nigritae and Pharusii, whom

he expressly states to have been near those Aethio­

pians, were only thirty journeys from Lixus, par­

ticularly when he accompanies the remark with the

doubtful word <patrl, and with his marvellous stories

about the productions of Mauretania. Ptolemy (I.e.')

places them on the N. of the river Nigeir, from-

which they took their name. It may be inferred,

therefore, that they are to be sought in the interior

between the Quorra or Djol'dm and the Sandra in

the Biledu-l-Suddn. Their chief town was called

Nigeira (Niyeipopirrp6vo\is, Ptol. iv. 6. § 27):

the Nigritis Lacls (Nrypms Muvn, § 14) may

be identified with the lake Dibbeh to the SW. of

Timbuktu. [E. B. J.J

NIGRINIA'NA. [Candidiana.]

NIGRI'TIS LACUS. [Nigritae.]

NIGRUS. [Mogrits.]

NILI PALUDES (oi row N«.'aod \turat, Ptol.

iv. 9. § 3; Strab. xvii. p. 786) were described by

the ancient geographers as two immense lagoons,

which received the first floods of the periodical rains

that from May to September fall upon the Abys­

sinian highlands, and swell all the rivers flowing

northward from that table-land. From these lagoons

the Astapus (Bahr-cl-Azrelc, Blue River) and the

Bahr-el-Abiad, or White Rircr, respectively derived

their waters; and since they were the principal

tributaries of the Nile, the lakes which fed them

were termed the Nilotic Marshes. The ancients

placed the Nili Palndes vaguely at the foot of the

Luuae Montes ; and the exploring party, sent by the

emperor Nero, described them to Seneca the philo­

sopher as of boundless extent, covered with flouting

weeds, and containing black and slimy water, im­

passable either by boats or by wading. There is,

however, some probability that this exploring party

saw only the series of lagoons produced by the level

and sluggish stream of the White River, since the

descriptions of modem travellers in that region ac­

cord closely with Seneca's narrative (An*. Outwit.

vi. 8). The White River itself, indeed, resembles

an immense lagoon. It is often from five to seven

miles in width, and its banks are so low as to bo

covered at times with slime to a distance of two or

three miles from the real channel. This river, as

less remote than the Abyssinian highlands from the

ordinary road between Syene and the S. of Meroe

(Sennaar), is more likely to have fallen under the

notice of Nero's explorers ; and the extent of slimy

, water overspread with aquatic plants, corresponds

