SICILIA. 985 SICILIA.

Btory, now Capo di Sta Croc* (Snpaiytas

mrripiir, Sink. vi. p. 267), within which was

'aifhoxiak Port (ai>»V Ei^mioj, Scyl. p.

. evidently the harbour of Augusta, one of the

nt utoral harbours in the island. Between this

d Syracuse ii the remarkable peninsular promon-

7 of Thatocs (Magniri), while immediately S.

Syracuse occurs the remarkable landlocked hay

liri tbe Great Harbour of that city, aud the rocky

tiiaad of Plemmykiitm which bounds it on the

From this point to Cape Pachynns no ancient

net lure been preserved to us of the headlands

atrboura. From Cape Pachynns to the site of

4t the rout is low but rocky. Along this line

■I be placed the port of Ulysses (Portos Odysseae)

atoned by Cicero, and the promontory of Ulysses

Ptolemy, both apparently in the immediate neigh-

iriood of Cape Pachynus [Pachynus.] The

a» promontory (BoiWpa &*pa) of Ptolemy, which

places further W., is wholly unknown, as is also

! port of C&ucana of the same author (Kawtdm

uw, PtoL iii. 4. § 7). The remainder of the

nut of Sicily from Gela to Lilybaeum presents

t&e whole a very uniform character; it has few

sj natural ports, and no remarkable headlands,

u Uiunded for the most part by hills of cluy or

I iinxstone, generally sloping gradually to the

, hit sometimes forming cliffs of no great eleva-

i. The celebrated promontory of Lilybaeum

■ U*t rocky point, and its famous port, though

ei, i* of small extent. X. of Lilybaeum was

jtoiontory of Aeoithallus, with the adjacent

u lands, ou one of which the city Motya was

)!: while the more considerable islands of the

■utgs lay a few miles further to the W., and

prauontory of Dkepajtum adjoining the city of

■ane name formed the NW. point of Sicily. It

-nirkable that no ancient name is preserved to  
far the deep gulf of Castellamare which occurs

tat coast between Trapani and Palermo, though

i one of tbe most remarkable features of the N.

at of Sicily; nor are the two striking headlands

t bound the Bag of Palermo itself known to us

their ancient names. The bold and insulated

Monte Sta Rosalia is, however, the ancient

ere. The northern coast of Sicily is bold and

led, formed by offshoots and ridges of the northern

B of mountains descending abruptly to the sea;

nt k was always a rugged and difficult line of

-i.V-ation. But none of the rocky headlands  
t interrupt it are mentioned to us by their ancient

tea, till we come to that of Mylae adjoining the

> f tbe same name (Mlaao), and the Piia-

bia> Pbomoxtort (Ptol. iii. 4. § 2), ap-

Kily the Capo di Jiatocolmo within a few miles

if» I'elorus.

'rorn the triangular form of Sicily and the confi-

una of the mountain chains which traverse it, it

raiest that it could not have any rivers of import-

>- Most of them indeed are little more than

i mountain torrents, swelling with great rapidity

r tioieot storms or during the winter rains, but

riy, if not wholly, dry during the Bummer months.

> n.i»t important rivers of the island are: 1. The

t vkthus(Simtto or Ciarretta'), which rises in the

hern chain of mountains (the Mons Ncbrodes),

ftswa to tbe S. and SK. round the foot of Aetna,

: into tbe sea about 6 miles S. of Catania. It re­

el several tributaries, of which the Uittaino is cer-

Jy the ancient Chby'sas, that flowed near the

U Aawrus, while the Adiianls of Stephanus can

be no other than the northern or main branch of the

Symnethus itself. The Cyamosorus (Kvandovpoi)

of Polybius, which appears to have been in the

neighbourhood of Centuripa, must probably he the

branch now called Fiume Salso. which joins the

Sirneto just below Centorbi 2. The AcKSINiis or

Asines (f. Conrara), which rises very near the

Symaethus, but flows along the northern foot of

Aetna, and falls into the sea just below Taurome-

nium. 3. The Himera (F. Sal*o~), the most consi­

derable of two rivers which bore the sanio name,

rising in the Monte Madonia (Mons Nebrodes)

only about 15 miles from the N. coast, and flowing

due S.; so that it traverses nearly the whole breadth

of Sicily, and falls into the sea at Alicata (Phintias).

4. The Halycub (Platani), so long the boundary

between the Carthaginian and Greek territories in

tbe island, is also a considerable stream; it rises not

far from the Himera, but flows to the S\V\, and

enters the sea between Agrigentum and Sclinus,

close to the site of Heraclea Minoa. 5. The Hyp-

sas (Belici), falling into the sea on the S. coast, a

few miles E. of Selinus; and 6, the Anatls (Anapa),

which flows under the walls of Syracuse and falls

into the great harbour of that city. It is unlike

most of the rivers of Sicily, being a full clear stream,

supplied from subterranean sources. The samo

character belongs still more strongly to its tributary

the Cyank, which has a considerable volume of

water, though its whole course does not exceed two

miles in length.

The minor rivers of Sicily which are mentioned

either in history or by the geographers are nume­

rous, but in many cases are very difficult to identify.

Beginning at Cape Pachynus and proceeding along

the coast westward, we find: I, the Motychanus

(MoTi)xa"o», Ptol. iii. 4. § 7), evidently so called

from its flowing near Motyca, and therefore pro­

bably the stream now called Fiume di Scicli ; 2,

the Hirminius of Pliny, probably the Fiume di

Ragusa, very near the preceding; 3, the Hii-paris;

and 4, the Oanis, two small streams which flowed

under the walls of Camarina, now called the F. di

Camarana and Frascolari; 5, the Gkla or Gelah,

which gave name to the city of Gela, and must

therefore be the Fiume di Terranova; 6, the Acra-

gas, a small stream flowing under the walls of Agri-

gentum, to which it gave name, and receiving a

tributary called the Hyfsas (Drago), which must

not be confounded with the more important river of

the same name already mentioned; 7, the Camicuh,

probably the Fiume delle Canne, about 10 miles W.

of Girgenti; 8, the Selinus, flowing by the city of

that name, now the Madiuni; 9, the Mazara or

Mazarus, flowing by the town of the same name,

and still called Fiume di Mauara. Besides these

Ptolemy mentions the Isburus and Sosias or Sossius,

two names otherwise wholly unknown, and which

cannot be placed with any approach to certainty.

Equally uncertain is the more noted river AcflATM,

which is placed by Pliny in the s.ime part of Sicily

with the Mazara and Hypsas; but there is great

confusion in his enumeration as well as that of

Ptolemy. It is generally identified with the iJirillo,

but this is situated in quite a different part of Sicily.

The Acithius of Ptolemy, which he places between

Lilybaeum and Selinus, may be the Fiume di Mar-

tola.

Along the N. coast, proceeding from Lilybaeum

to Cape Pclorus, we meet with a number of small

streams, ha\ing for the must put a short torrent

