SOMA. 721 ROMA.

m the southern one ; but they were afterwards

as one hill, in order not to exceed the

i-wnplive number of seven. S. of the Esquiline

n Man Caeiiua, the Urgent of the seven; and to t he

C of at Mora Aventinus, the next largest, the NW.

<.r it which closely borders on the Tiber. In the

sail of tins garland of hills lies the lozenge-shaped

In Palatums, facing on the NW. towards the

«ai»me, on the NE. towards the Etquiline, on the

I luwarox the Caelian, and on the SW. towards

■ Atmine.

;i may be observed that, of the seven hills above

araVe, the Quirinal and Viminal are styled collet,

ntlat the others, though without any apparent reason

r im dnlincti.ni, are called montet. It cannot de-

mi apon their height, since those called collet are

i l/:y as those dignified with the more im|>osing

t~- .1 T*mtfj; whence it 6eems probable that the

aVreact <riginated in the ancient traditions re-

r- imr; the Septimontium. A leas important emi-

■re, tailed Velia, which was not reckoned as

<xt.sKt bill, projected from the NE. side of the

towards the Esquiline, and separated the

n lairys which in after times became the sites of

! i'nza Komanum and of the Colosseum. The

i-.-a^ua was another but still smaller ofishoot, or

nr, *f the Palatine, on its western side.

Oa the of posite bank of the Tiber, Mons Vaticanus

(1 >1 as J.iciculus rise, as before remarked, to a

i ..^ally greater height than the bills just de-

rhni. The former of these lies opposite to the

a. -m. but at a considerable distance from the

r*r thes leaving a level space, part of which was

tiae Agar Vaticanus, whilst the portion nearest

• mar obtained the name of Pratu Quinclia. To

t - A M (is Vaticanus. and close to the river, at

r 'i:rerce western point of its first reach, the

ass Jajucuroa begins to rise, and runs almost

a. rtst to the S. till it sinks into the plain opposite

y. ;j Areotinas. The open space between this

I i-jI the southernmost curve of the Tiber formed

i Lt*» Tmxtttiberina. The sinuous course of the

vr trvm the Pincian to the Capitoliue left a still

n extensive plain between its left bank and the

4 &"tne, the northern and more extcosivc por-

a { which tanned the Campus Martius, whilst its

oaera part, towards the Capitoliue, was called the

iu FlaaiiBha.

} -« the preceding description it will be per-

-] ti_ai the Capitoline, Aventine, Caelian, and

Ul.se were completely isolated hills, separated

rm <*mt aar.ber by narrow valleys. Thoso valleys

c. ~«y nearest the Tiber seein, in their original

la. *o harre formed a niarah, or even a lake. Such

* the Valias Marcia, between the l'alatiue and  
ex*-x<e, m later times the seat of the Circus Max-

■: m well ma the low ground between the Pala-

> aasi river, afterward.-, known as the Velabrum

f warn Bomriom ; and perhaps even part of the

•id Kaanauvujn itself. Thus, in the combat be-

-r. 'j.-* Kenans and Subincis on the spot aflcr-  
e» aocapied by the forum, the affrighted horse

aVrtias Curtius, the Sabine leader, is described

-t .ng him into a marsh. (Liv. L 12.)  
r. Lnrre are ground* for believing that the Tiber,

tm neighbourhood of Borne, fanned at a very re-

<■ ^thW an ann of the sea, as pure marine sand

bra xoand there. (Niebuhr, LtcL on Ethnogr.

a- »- » ■) . , .

-rrVr to aasiat the reader in forming a clear  
i the nature of the Human hills, we shall here

insert a few measurements. They are taken from a

paper by Sir George Schukburg in the "Philoso­

phical Transactions," An. 1777 (vol. lxvii. pt. 2.

p. 594), and have been esteemed the most accurate.

(Becker, Ilcmdhuch, vol. i. p. 83, note.) Other

measurements by Calandrelli are also annexed. The

latter are according to the Paris foot, which equals

12 785 inches Knglish.

Height above the Mediterranean: —

Feet.

Janiculum, near the Villa Spada - 260

Aventine, near Priory of Malta • - 117

Palatine, Boor of imperial palace - - 133

Caelian, near the Claudian aqueduct - 125

Esquiline, floor of & Maria Maggiore 154

Capitoline, YY. end of the Tarpeian ruck 118

Viminal and Quirinal at their junction, in

the Carthusian church, baths of Dio­

cletian ..... 141

Pincian, garden of the Villa Medici - 165

Tiber, above the Mediterranean - 33

Convent of St. Clare in the I'lade'Spec-

cAi 27

Forum, near the arch of Scverus - - 34

Measurements from Calandrelli, in his and Conti's

Opaicoli attronomici e jitici (op. Sachse, Getch.

da- Stadt Rom, vol. i. p. 697): —

Parli feet

Janiculum, floor of the church of S. Pie-

tro in Montorio (not the highest point

of the hill) 185

Aventine, floor of S. A lettio - - 146

Palatine, floor of <S. Bottactntura - 160

Caelian, floor of 5. Giovanni Laternno 158

Esquiline, floor of 5. Maria Maggiore - 177

Capitol, floor of 5. Maria a" Araceli - 151

Viminal, floor of S. Lorenzo - - 160

Quirinal, Palazzo Quirinale - - 148

Pincian, floor of 5. Trinila de' Monti - 150

Vatican, floor of S. J'ietro 93

In ancient times, however, the hills must have ap­

peared considerably higher than they do at present,

as the valleys are now raised in many places from

15 to 20 feet above their former level, and in some

parts much more. (Lnmisden, Ant. of Home, p.

137.) This remark is more particularly appli­

cable to the forum, which is covered with rubbi>h to

a great depth; a-circumstance which detracts much

from tiie apparent height of the Capitoline; whose

sides, too, must formerly have been much more

abrupt and precipitous than they now are. The

much superior heipht of the Janiculum to that of any

of the hills on the W. bank of the Tiber, will have

been remarked. Hence it enjoyed a noble pro-pect

over the whole extent of the city and the Campagna

beyond, to the mountains which bound the eastern

horizon. The view has been celebrated by Martial

(iv. 64), and may be still enjoyed either from tho

terrace in front of S. Pietro in Montorio, or from

the spot where the Pontana Paolina now pours its

abundant waters :—

"Hinc septem dominos videre montes

Et totam licet aestimare Humam,

Albanos quoque Tusculosque colles

Et quudcunque jacet sub urbe frigus."

Cl.IJLVTE.

The climate of Romo appears to have been

much colder in ancient times than it is at pre-

3 A

