OLYMPIA. OLYMPIA. 475

i! hind its bum. (Strab. xii. pp. 571, 576.)

TV inhibiunto of the district were called Olympeni

COlinnia, Smb. xii. p. 574; Ptol. v. 2. § 15) or

fcaaa (tokqnrnirof, Herod, vii. 74; comp.

tau). [L. S.]

KTWU (i 'OAuurfa), the temple and sacred

j-w/Zm oirapius, situated at a small distance

re: Pia in Peloponnesus. It originally belonged

u F it, uj the plain, in which it stood, was called

r Mfl morat limes the plain of Pisa; but after

ti»j-tmriMi of this city by the Eleians in n. c. 572,

Ik sue of Otympii was extended to the whole dis­

ci. Anils tie temple of Zens Olympius, there

«m mail other sacred edifices and public buildings

a tv ami trove and iu immediate neighbourhood;

!:••:-» ru no distinct town of Olympia.

Tta plain of Olympia is open towards the sea on

fc nst, but is surroanded on every other side by

14 rf » rrejl heieht, yet in many places abrupt

ai jnaprtoos. Their surface presents a series of

»x6 tiii of light yellow colour, covered with the

J* it, ud other evergreens. On entering the

»u« fnm the west, the most conspicuous object is

1144 and nearly insulated eminence rising on the

■fii inn tbe level plain in the form of an irregular

ga (Mure, vol iL p. 281.) This is Mount

fcm:u.orihe hill of Cronos, which is frequently

gbd it fWir ami other ancient writers. (*aj)'

»*W tfirut, Pind. 01 i. Ill; wcryor KpdVou,

n. 49; itynXoio vcrpa aXiSaros Kpoviov, OL

l«) Uik iV airi* &x6or, Lycophr. 42; i

■""si.Xeu. UelL vii. 4. § 14; t6 ipos rb Kpi-

I* IW v. 21. § J, vL 19. § 1, vi. 20. § 1;

l& § 14.) The range of hills to which it

»tilled by most modern writers the Olym-

thi authority of a passage of Xenophon.

Pa >i t j M). Leake, however, supposes

'i* oiymptu hill alluded to in this passage

«ter than Cronios itself; but it would

'■ litt the common opinion is correct, since

I'il p. J36) describes Pisa as lying be-

tl* two mountains Olympus and Ossa. The

'iii bound the plain on the south, are higher

ridge, and, like the latter, are covered

with the exception of one bare sum-

about half a mile from the Alpheius.

** the ancient Typakus (Twcuop), from  
»ho frequented the Olympic games,

the river on forbidden davs, were con-

«!obf hnrled headlong. (Paus. v. 6. § 7.)

"^f* of hills closes the vale of Olympia to

**i at tie foot of which runs the rivulet of  
On the west the vale was bounded by the

(KAaJwj), which flowed from north to

•j*; the tide of the sacred grove, and fell into

"saass, (Psns. t. 7. § 1; KAolSooi, Xen. HeU.

}W.) This river rises at Lata in Mount

The Alpheius, which flows along the south-

^ 4 the plain, constantly changes its course,

Med beneath the new alluvi.it plain, or

the river, all the remains of buildings and

vhieh stood in the southern part of the

r"we. In winter the Alpheius is full, rapid,

□ summer it is scanty, and divided into

P avRats flowing between islands or sand-

» «ide gravelly bed. The vale of

l» » sow called Attdilalo (i. e. opposite to

|ad a ranhabited. The soil is naturally

■ i»B«pT hi part, owing to the inundations

"Of the numerous buildings and count-

vhich once covered this sacred spot,

the only remains are those of the temple of Zeus

Olympius. Pausanias has devoted nearly two books,

and one fifth of his whole work, to the description of

Olympia; but he does not enumerate the buildings

in their exact topographical order : owing to this cir­

cumstance, to the absence of ancient remains, and to

the changes'in the surface of the soil by the fluc­

tuations in the course of the Alpheius, the topo­

graphy of the plain must be to a great extent con­

jectural. The latest and most able attempt to

elucidate this subject, is that of Colonel Leake iu his

Pebponnesiaca, whose description is here chiefly

followed.

Olympia lay partly within and partly outside of

the Sacred Grove. This Sacred Grove bore from

the most ancient times the name of Altis (y

"AAtii), which is the Peloponnesian Aeolic form of

&\tros. (Paus. v. 10. § 1.) It was adorned with

trees, and in its centre there was a grove of planes,

(Paus. v. 27. § 11.) Pindar likewise describes it

as well wooded (ITtcrav tt/Stytipov *V 'AAipc'oj &\aost

01. viii. 12). The space of the Altis was measured

out by Hercules, and was surrounded by this hero

with a wall. (Piud. 01. xi. 44.) On the west it

ran along the Cladcus; on the south its direction

may be traced by a terrace raised above the Al­

pheius; on the east it was bounded by the stadium.

There were several gates in the wall, but the prin­

cipal one, through which all the processions passed,

was situated in the middle of the western side, and

was called the Pompic Entrance (t? no/xwuc?? tfaoo'oy,

Paus. v. 15. § 2). From this gate, a road, called

the Pompic Way, ran across the Altis, and entered

the stadium by a gateway on the eastern side.

1. The Olympieium, Olympium, or temple of Zeus

Olympius. An oracle of the Olympian god existed

on this spot from the most ancient times (Strab.

viii. p. 353), and here a temple was doubtless built,

even before the Olympic games became a Pan-Hel­

lenic festival. But after the conquest of Pisa and

the surrounding cities by the Eleians in b. c. 572,

the latter determined to devote the spoils of the

conquered cities to the erection of a new and splen­

did temple of the Olympian god. (Paus. v. 10.

§§ 2, 3.) The architect was Libon of Elis. The

temple was not, however, finished till nearly a century

afterwards, at the period when the Attic school of

art was supreme in Greece, and the Parthenon on

the Athenian Acropolis had thrown into the shade

all previous works of art. Shortly after the dedi­

cation of the Parthenon, the Eleians invited Phei-

dias and his school of artists to remove to Elis, and

adorn the Olympian temple in a manner worthy of

the king of the gods. Pheidias probably remained

at Olympia for four or five years from about B. c.

437 to 434 or 433. The colossal statue of Zeus in

the cells, and the figures in the pediments of the

temple were executed by Pheidias and his associ­

ates. The pictorial embellishments were tbe work

of his relative Panaenus. (Strab. viii. p. 354)

[Comp. Diet of Bioyr. Vol. III. p. 248.] Pausanias

has given a minute description of the temple (v. 10);

and its site, plan, and dimensions have been well as­

certained by the excavations of the French Commis­

sion of the Morea. The foundations are now exposed

to view ; and several fine fragments of the sculp­

tures, representing the labours of Hercules, are now

in the museum of the Louvre. The temple stood in

the south-western portion of the Altis, to the right

hand of the Pompic entrance. It was built of the

native limestone, which Pausanias called poros, and

