258 MANDUBIL MANDUBIL

on the north side of Alesia, and in the narrower

valley at the east end, is the railroad from Paris to

Jfijon. The nearest railway station to Alesia is Les

J^ntmes.

The summit of Alesia is not quite flat; but the

irregularities are inconsiderable. The sides of the

hill beneath the plateau are steep and rocky; and

the upper part of the ascent to the summit is not

easy. Below the plateau, and below this sleep ascent,

there is a narrow level piece of ground, which ap­

pears to have been widened a little by the labour of

man; and below this level part there is another de­

scent, which in some parts is steep. The fine plain

(planities) at the western foot of Alesia, which Caesar

describes, is seen well from the western end of the

level summit- This is the part which Caesar (c. 84)

rails the "Arx Alesiae." The surface of the plateau

rises a little towards the western extremity, and then

falls away abruptly, terminating in a rocky promon­

tory, something like the head of a boat. A cross,

with a small tree on each side of it, stands at the

ed<re of the brow, and exactly marks the place from

which Vercingetorix looked down on the plain of

Alesia (c. 84). Beneath the Arx Alesiae is the

small town of Altse. on the western and south-west­

ern slnpe of the hill. It occupies a different place

from the old town of the Mandubii, which was on the

summit level. The hill is a mass of rock. The pla­

teau has a thin soil, and the few parts which are not

cultivated are covered with a short grass like that on

the Brighton downs. It appears that the town of the

Manduhii occupied all the large plateau, the length

of which is shown by the scale, though we must as­

sume that it was not all built on. The Ant, as al­

ready explained, was at the west end, commanding ft

view of the plain. The city wall seems to have been

carried all round the margin of the plateau. Caesar

says (B. G. vii. 69): " under the wall, that part of

the hill which looked towards the east, all this space

the forces of the Galli had filled, and they had

fanned in their front a ditch and a wall of stones

(maceria) six feet high." This is the place marked

A. in the plan, the only part of the hill of Alexia

which is connected with the neighbouring heights. It

is a small neck of land which separates the valleys

of the Loz*. and the I^ozerain. This is the part

when; the plateau of Alesia is m st accessible, which

Vercingetorix first occupied when he retired to Ale­

sia, and where he constructed the wall of loose stones

(maceria). There are plenty of stones on the spot

to construct another such wall, if it were wanted.

At the eastern end of the plateau, just under the

summit there is a source of water, which is now

covered over with a small building. The water is

now carried in pi[>es round the lull, to supply the

h'wpital of Alise, which is (F.) on the west aide of

the hill on the slope Water is got at Alise by dig-

ping well* in the small level below the plateau; and

as the Galli held this part of the mountain during

the blockade, they may have got water from wells,

as they no doubt did from the spring on the plateau.

Caesar's lines were formed all round the hill of

A)e*ia, and they crossed the neck (A.) which con­

nects this hill with another hill (B.) on the south­

east side. The "castra" of Caesar (cc 69, 80)

were on B. C. D. E., on all the heights around Ale­

sia. These hills have a sleep side turned to Alesia,

and flat tops. They are so near to Alesia that Cae­

sar could not be safe against an attack from the out­

side, unless he occupied them. The valleys between

Alusia and B- C. D. are narrow. On the north and

north-west side the valley is wider. There if a good

source of water on the hill B.

The hill of Alesia is well defined on the onrh

and the south by the valleys of the two stnasms

which Caesar mentions (B. G. vii. 69), and oa the

west side by the plain in which these riven meet.

Caesar estimates the width of this plain from n-^th

to south at three Roman miles; and it is thai width

at least even in the part which is only a little dis­

tance from the foot of the hill. It extends much

further in a N\V. direction on the road to Sftmlbnrd.

This plain is a perfect level, covered in summer with

fine wheat. As we go from the foot of the hill of

Alesia to />* Laumts, the Arx Alesiae ia a con­

spicuous object

Caesar made two lines of circumvallatioo round

Alesia. The circuit of the inner lines was eleven

Knman miles ; and we may infer from his words

that this circumvallation was entirely in the plaia

and the valleys, except that it must have pawed

over the small elevation or neck of land between A.

and B. In making the outer lines, which were

fourteen Roman miles in circuit, he followed the

level as far as the ground allowed (c 74); fmm

which we conclude that some parts of the outer line

were on the high grounds opp-*ite to the hill < f

Alesia; and the form of the surface show* that this

must have been so. The upper part of the bill

west of Crtfftigny, part of which bill appear* in the

north-west angle of the plan, was crossed by the

lines; and the camp of Reginus and Kebilus (c. 83)

was on the slope of this hill which fa<** AU->ia-

One of the ditches (fossae) of the interior lines was

filled with water from the river (c. 72). The use*

of eleven and fourteen miles in circuit are no ex*

nggeration. No less circuit would enclose the hill

and give the Romans the necessary space. The

boldness of the undertaking may be easily conceived

by the aid of numbers; but the sight of the work

that was to be done before Vercingetorix and h:*

troops, to the number of 80.000 men, conM be «hut

in, can alone make us fully comprehend and admins

the daring genius of the Roman proconsul.

There was a cavalry fight in the great plain

before Caesar had completed his works. The Galli

were driven back from the plain to their camp under

the east end of the bill, and took refuge wtthm

Alesia. After this defeat Vercingetorix sent his

cavalry away, and made preparation for holding out

till the Gallic confederates should come to his aid.

(B.G. 70, 71.) When the forces of the confederate*

(vii. 75) came to raise the blockade of Alesia, they

posted themselves on the hills where the name

Miwxy at •{tears; and in the battle which is de­

scribed in vii. 79, the Gallic cavalry filled the pUia

on the west side of the hill of Alesia, while the

infantry remained on the heights about Jfttasy. Tha

Gallic horse were beaten back to their camp(c. PO);

but on the following night they renewed the attack

on that part of the lines which crossed the {tain.

This atta> k also failed The next night the »i-.IIic

confederates sent 60.000 men under Vergasillaono*

to the north, to the back of the bill (EX on tW

south slope of which Reginus and Urbilus had their

camp. Their orders were to fall on the Reman* at

midday. The Galli got to the back of the hill at

daybreak, and waited till near noon, when they

began their attack on the camp. At tha same rim*

the cavalry of the confederates came againat Uw

lines in the plain; and Veningetorix de*ond«-d

from the heights of Alesia to attack the line* fnaa

