32G HEXAEXCM. MEMPHIS.

Psuinmetiehus (Herod, ii. 153; Aelinn, Hint. An.

xi. 10; Clemens Alexand. Patilag. iii. 2; Strab.

xvii. p. 807), .stood opposite the southern portal of

the great temple of Ptah or Hcphaestos, and was

celebrated for its colonnades, through which the pro­

cessions of Apis were conducted. Here was also an

oracle of Apis, in connection with one of Osiris and

Isi.s (Plin. viii. 46; Pausan. vii. 22.) This temple

was the cathedral of Aegypt, and not only esta­

blished there a numerous, opulent, and learned col­

lege of priests, but also attracted thitlter innumerable

worshippers, who combined commercial with reli­

gious purposes.

4. The temple of Scrapis, in the western quarter

of Memphis. This Scrapis was of earlier date than

the Alexandrian deity of similar mme. To the

Memphiiin Serappium was attached a Xilo-meter, fur

gauging and recording the periodical overflows of the

river. It was removed by Constantine as a relic of

paganism, but replaced by his successor Julian.

(Stent, flitt. EccUs. i. 18; Sozomen, v. 2; comp.

Diodor. i. 50, 57; Senec. Quarst Nat. iv. 2 ; Plin.

Tiii. 46.)

5. A temple of Phro, or the Sun, mentioned only

in the Ko-etta inscription (Letronne, Rtcueil des

Inter. Grecques et Lat. de I' Egypte; Brugsch, In-

script HoBfttan.')

6. The temple of the Cabeiri (Herod, iii. 37),

into which none but the high-priest might lawfully

enter. The statues of the pigmy gods were burned

by Cambyses, and the temple mutilated.

7. The temple of Ptah or Hephaestos, the ele­

mental principle of fire, worshipped under the form

of a Pygmy. This was the most ancient shrine in

Memphis, being coeval with its foundation. (Diodor.

i. 45; Herod, ii. 99, iii. 37; Strab. xvii. 807 ; Am-

mian. xvii. 4.) It was enlarged and beautified by

several successive inonarehs, apparently through a

spirit of rivalry with the great buildings at Thebes.

(1.) Moeris erected the great northern court (Herod,

ii. 101; Diod. i. 51). (2.) Kamcses the Great

raised in this court six colossal figures of stone, —

portrait-statues of himself, his queen, and their four

sons. (Herod, ii. 108—110; Strab. xvii. p. 807.)

(3.) Rhampeinitus built the western court, and

erected two colossal figures of summer and winter.

(Herod, ii. 121; Diodor. L 62; Wilkinson, M. and

('. i. p. 121.) (4-) Asychia added the eastern

court (Herod, ii. 136.) It was, in the opinion of

Herodotus, by far the noblest and most beautiful of

the four quadrangles. (5.) Psammetichus, the

Saite king, added the south court, in commemoration

of his victory over the Dodecarchy ( Polyaen. Stratag.

vii. 3; Herod, ii. 153 , Diodor. i 67); and Amasis

(Herod, ii. 176) erected or restored to its basis the

colossal statue of Ptah, in front of the southern

portico. From the priests of the Memphtan temples,

the Greeks derived their knowledge of Aegyptian

annals, and the rudiments also of their philosophical

systems. It was at Memphis that Herodotus made

his longest sojourn, and gained most of his inform­

ation respecting Lower Aegypt. Democritus also

re-sided five years at Memphis, and won the favour of

the priests by hia addiction to astrological and hiero-

glyphieal studies. (Diog. Laert. iMmocrit. ix. 34.)

Memphis reckoned among its illustrious vi-itors, in

early times, the legislator S>lon, the historian Heca-

taeus, the philosophers Thales and Cleobulus of

Lindua; and in a later age, Strabo the geographer,

and Diodorus the Sicilian.

The village of Mitra-nUh, half concealed in a

'grove of palm-trees, about 10 miles & of <7ia*t,

I marks the site of the ancient Memphis. The «a--

cesMve conquerors of the land, indeed, have u*eri us

. ruins as a stone-quarry, so that its exact wtu»t:»n

< has been a subject of dispare. Major Kni*ll

I (Geography of Herodotus, vol. ii. p. 121, te*\.\

! however, brings incontestable evidence of the corre­

spondence of MitrunteA with Memphis. Its re­

mains extend over many hundred acres of groco-i,

which are covered with blocks of granite, brok*-::

obelisks, columns and colossal statues. The prisv

cipal mound corresponds probably with the area \4

the great temple of Ptah.

There are several accounts of the appearance of

Memphis at different eras. Strabo saw the Hcphae*-

teium entire, although much of the city was then n

ruins. In the twelfth centnry a. i>. it was vbdt«d by

the Arabian traveller Ab-dallatif, who was deep>

impressed with the spectacle of grandeur and deso­

lation. "Its ruins ofier," he says, " to the spectator

a union of things which confound him, and which

the most eloquent man in the world would in vain

attempt to describe," He seems to hare seen at least

one of the colossal statues of the group of Ru*ws

in the northern court of the Hephaes-teium. An>*\£

innumerable "idols," as he terms them, be ** nwa»u.r**i

one which, without its pedestal, was more than 30

cubits long. This statue was formed of a sasjefe

piece of red granite, and was covered with a red

varnish." (Ab-dallatif, De &tcy* Tran*lnt*m, *?•.

p. 184.) Sir William Hamilton (Afgyjttiaca* *;<x

p. 303) visited the spot, and says, that "ha«n

mounds enclose a square of 1800 yards from N.

to S., and 400 from E. to W. Tlie entrance u

the centre of each side is still visible, Th* t»«

principal entrances faced the desert and the rivrr"

(that is W. and E.). He entered by the oarer,

and found immediately " thirty or forty large l>l<ck«

of very fine red granite, lying on the ground, eritWntly

forming parts of some colossal statues, the chat

ornaments of the temple."

The district in which these remains are found is

still termed Memfby the Coptic population, and ths>

helps to confirm the identity of the village of Jtitra-

nkh with the ancient capital of Aegypt. [W.fcVD.]

MENAENUM or MENAE (M«wu, Pu>L, i*nh.

B.; Mf'vaivov, Diod.: EtM. M««u*t, Steph ; Kit

coins have Meraipoi; Menaenus, Cic.; MennetmnuL

Plin.: Mineo), an inland city of Sicily, aW^r. ]$

miles W. of Leontini. It was a city of the Soma.

and not a Greek colony, but, according to Ihotiuru*,

was not an ancient settlement of that p**>f>le. bat

first founded by their king Dueetiw, in sue. 459.

(Diod. xi. 78.) It wai situated at a distance at

about 2 miles from the celebrated lake and «■!*--

tuary of the Palici [PAMCnRFM LmX»] (StrjK

B. ». r.); and Ducetius appears, a few ream si rr-

wards, to have removed the inhabitants again fnm

his newly built city, and t-> have founded ancthrr,

in the immediate neighbourhood of the sarred Was,

to which he gave the name of Palica (Dutd. xl. M,

where tbe reading MeVar for N#ai, suggested by

Cluver. and adopted by Weaseling, is at sna*t v*-t

probable, though it is difficult to undrmtan-i h->«»

Diodorus could call H tbe N*i/tre city cf Ducvtius, if

it had, in fact, been only founded by him) That

new city, however, was destroyed soon saW uW

death of Ducetius (Diod. xi. 90), and it ss prahafast

that the inhabitants settled again at Xlvtuarmca.

The latter city, though it never attained to ary

great importance, continned to &ub*ist dusrn to a

