SUAGELA. SUBUS. 1041

i't continues down to the present day, and the

militants of the surrounding villages relate that

rear! will hold the water. It is now called ra

•-..1,1 the Black Waters, and sometimes to

: -rtpia, or the Terrihle Waters. (Leake,

*ra, ral. Hi. p. 160, seq.; Fiedler, Hcise dttrch  
■> inland, vol. i. p. 400, who gives a drawing

la* Styx: Cm-tins, Petop<mnesos, vol. i. p. 195.)

MA'GELA (SouryfAa), a town of Curia, in

• h was shown the tomb of Car, the ancestor of

Uh Carians ; the place was in fact believed to

>t received its name from this circumntance, for

Canan oeva figuified a tomb, and ytkas a king,

vpo. B. #. r.) Strabo, who calls the place

- . i< -v:i. p. 611), states that this towq and  
■xus were preferred at the lime when Mausolus

tfd mx other towns to fonn Halicarnassus. [L.S.]

H.WNA (2ovcvoh Ptol.: F.th. Suunensis: Savant),

nra of Southern Etruria, situated in the valley of

>Fiorn (Arminia), about 24 miles from the sea,

120 W. of Volsuui (liolsena). No mention of it is

r. 1 in history as an Etruscan city, but both Pliny

i Ptolemy notice it as a municipal town of Etruria

tt t.ie ttoman Empire. (Plin. iii. 5. s. 8; Ptol.

I- | 49.) Its site is clearly marked by the

fern town of Sorana or Soana, which was a eon-

raiwe place in the middle ages, and still retains

i title of a city, and the see of a bishop, though

r s very poor and decayed place. It has only

* fclirbt remains of Roman antiquity, but the  
ifi anmnd the town abound with tombs hewn

t* rack, and adorned with architectural facades

»• f t-, Wrongly resembling in character

it at Castrl d Asso and Bicda. These relics,

Eh are pronounced to be among the most interest-

fi tee kind in Etruria, were first discovered by

Auuley in 1843, and are described by him in

ArnnuiidelT Institute di Corrispondenzn Archen-

mfcr 1843 (pp. 223—226); also by Mr. Dennis

r»rit, vol. i. pp. 480—500). [E. EL B.]

ORDONES, a tribe of the Suevi in Northern

many, on the right hank of the Albin. south of

>aiooes, and north of the Langobardi. (Tac.

40.) Zeuas (Die tkutschen, p. 154), de-

V then* name from stutrd or sward (a sword),

mis it as identical with that of the Pharodini,

thmed by Ptolemy (ii. 1 L § 13) as living in

jy the nine part of Germany. [L. S.]

V A l.'XI, a rude people of Asiatic Sarmatia, in the

Ibourbuod of the Portae Caucasiae and the Rha.

fpraeaeed gold mines (Plin. vi. 11. s. 12). They

probably the same people whom Ptolemy calls

tit (2ovporof, V. 9. § 20) and places between

Hippie and Ceraunian mountains. [T. H. IK]

- \ 1 wd -a : Eth. Sua&anus: Ru. near Casttl  
tr), a town of Umbria mentioned both by Ptolemy

Piny, of whom the latter reckons it among the

in pal towns of that country. Ptolemy places it.

Iher wjthtQstra, in the district of the Senones,

u wt*s tlterefore situated w the northern decli-

rf the Apennines. Its site is clearly identified

■ between 8. Lorenzo and Castel Jsone in

•ii>y of the Ccsano, about 18 miles from the

Considerable ruins were still extant on the

a tbe time of Cluver. including the remains of

■alia, gate*, a theatre, &c; and inscriptions

1 there left no doubt of their identification,

rer, itaL p. 620.) [E. EL It.J

"ASTrTNE (Zowrhrn, Ptol. vii. 1. § 42),

rrict in the XW. of India, beyond the Panjdb,

ibove tiie junction of the Kabul river and the

M. IL

Indus. It derives its name from the small river

Suastus (the Suvastu or Suwatf), which is one of the

tributaries of the Kabul river. [GOBTA.] [V.j

SUASTUS. [Suastenk]

SUBANECTI. [Silvankctes.]

SUBATIL [Tubantks.]

SUBD1NNUM. [Cexomani.]

SUBEKTUM, another reading oCSmERTrM.

SUBI, a river on the E. coast of HUpania Tarra-

conensis, which entered the sea near the town of

Subur. (Plin. iii. 3. s. 4.) Probablv the modem

FrancolL [T. H. D.]

SUBLA'QUEUM (Subiaco),a. place in the valley

of the Anio about 24 miles above Tibur (Tivoli).

j It derived its name from its situation below the

lake or lakes formed by the waters of the Anio in

I this part of its course, and called the Simbklina

Staona or SiMBRivit Laci;s. These hikes have

now entirely disappeared: they were evidently in

great part artificial, formed as reservoirs for the

Aqua Marcia and Aqua Claudia, both of which were

derived from the Anio in this part of its course. There

; is no mention of Sublaqueum before the time of Nero,

who bad a villa there railed by Krontinua "Villa Ne-

roniana Sublacensis;'' and Tacitus mentions the name

as if it was one not familiar to every one. (Tac. xiv.

22; Frontin. de Aquaed. 93). It seems certain there­

fore that there was no town of the name, and it

would appear from Tacifua (L c.) that the place

w&4 included for municipal purposes within the

territory of Tibur. Pliny also notices the name of

Sublaqueum in the 4th Region of Augustus, but

not among the municijal towns: as well as the

lakes (" lacus tres amoeuitntenobiles") from which it

was derived. (Plin. iii. 12. s. 17.) It appears from

mediaeval records that these Likes continued to

exist down to the middle ages, and the last of them

did not disappear till the year 1305. (Xibby, Din-

torni, vol. iii. p. 125.) Subiaco obtained a great

celebrity in the middle ages as the place of retire­

ment of St. Benedict, and the cradle of the celebrated

j monastic order to which he gave his name. It

seems probable that the site was in his time quite

, deserted, and that the modern town owes its origin

( to the monastery founded by him, and a castle

, which was soon after established in its neighbnur-

j hood. (Nibby, L c. p. 123.) [K. H. B.]

SURLA'VIO (It. Ant. p. 280) or SUBLA'BIO

(Tab. Pent), a place in Rhactia, on the site of the

j modem convent of St ft *, near the .town of Clausen.

Some suppose the correct name to be Subsavione,

which occurs in a middle age document of the reign

of the emperor Conrad II. [L. S.]

SUBUR (2ov€ovp, Ptol. ii. 6. § 17), a town of

the Laectani in Hispania Tarruconensis lying E. of

Tarraco. (Mela, ii. 6.) Ptolemy (L c) ascribes it

to the Cosetani, and Pliny (iii. 3. s. 4) to the Iler-

getes. It is mentioned in an inscription. (Gruter,

p. 414.) Variously identified with cityt* and VMa-

uiiera. [T. H. I).]

SUBUR (lovtovp, Ptol. iv. 1. § 13). 1. A town in

the interior of Maurctania Tingitana, near the river

of the same name.

2. (Ptol. iv. 1. § 2), a river of Manrrtania Timri-

tana. Pliny (v. 1. s. 1) calls it a fine navigable

river. It fell into the Atlantic near Colonia Bannsa,

50 miles S. of Lixu*. It is still called Subti or Cub*,

nnd rises among the forests of Mount SttU/o in the

province of Sciaus (Graberg of Heinsit, Das Kaisrr-

retch Mnrokko, tr. by Reumont, p. 12). [T H. \).]

SUBUS (XoGGos, Ptol. iv. 6. § 8), a river on tbe

3 x

