ORONTES. OROPUS. 495

rirer rkicg fa Coele-Svria, then sinking beneath

list earth, again issues forth, and, passing through

lie cbatrict of Apamea to Antiocheia, after np-

fnaMag the citj, run* off to the sea towards Se-

sraoaa. It received its name from one Orontes,

».* baill a bridge over it, having been formerly

■•siiai Typcon, from a mythic dragon, who being

n-aca with lightning, fled in quest of a hiding-

r-«. and after marking out the course of the

•"■nam with its trail, plunged into the earth, from

•ae» forthwith issued the fountain.'' He places

.a rxhoochare 40 stadia from Seleuceia (xvi.

. 7S0y lie elsewbere places the source of the

r eer is -re definitely near to Libanus and the 1'ara-

^ and the Egyptian wall, by the country of

A;atsea (p. 756). Its sources have been visited

mi described in later times by Mr. Barker in 1835.

lie mer " is called by the poople El-'A'si, 'the

»»V * from its rtfuial to water the fields without

tie watpolsjon of water-wheels, according to Abul-

hta {Tib. Sgr. p. 149), but according to Mr.

awfav, ■ from its occasional violence and windings,

arsi a course of about 200 miles in a northerly

Ck.U*i, passing through Hems and Uamoh, and

ial.y discharging itself into the sea at Suweidiah

*•-• Aatioch." (Journal of the Grog. Soc. vol.  
si. a. W.) The roost remote of these sources is

at a Irw miles north of Baalbek, near a village

M Ummt\ 'at the foot of the range of Anti-

aatas an the top of a hillock, near which passes

I aaal stream, which has its source in the ad-

saa^r maintains, and after flowing for several

Wen laraogh the plain, falls into the basin from

saves springs Use Oroutes." These fountains are

■at 13 hoars north of Labath, near the vil-

Ip aTay-aW, where is a remarkable monument,

Mas*, aad solid, terminating above in a pyramid

aa W ts 70 feet high. On the four sides hunting

aaa are sculptured in relief, of which the drawing

lea the grotesque.'' (Robinson, Journal of

voL zxir. p. 32.) There can be no

a connecting this monument with the

I it hnnting park mentioned by Strabo near

eaf the Orontes, similar, no doubt, in origin

{ cfcarsrter, to those with which the narrative

fJEavplam abounds, within the territories of the

Pbk mussarchs. The rise and course of this

feraat its various tributaries has been detailed by

■.CteKiry (Expedition, vol. L pp. 394—398),

■ a* auvnie beauty of its lower course between

-hn and the aeav has been described in glowing  
«»» sy Captains Irby and Mangles. (TraveU,

mm. m ) [aw.]

OSTES ("OpoVrny, Ptol. vi. 2. § 4), a moun-

I of Media, which extended in a south-east

the Ecbatana of Greater Media

I most be considered as an outlying

i atiH greater chain of the Zagros. It

t tailed the JErseearf or Elttend. It is pro-

ksaC Use name is preserved in the celebrated

_hit of SmrdUtam, now called Roadndiz. In

I frawraphy this mountain district is called

which is evidently connected with the

tea- (at. Martin, Armenia, vol. ii. pp.

, % people of anciont Assyria, described

) m kefir *° tiir ea*t of Gaugamela (vi. 2G.

7'aers can be no doubt that these are the

Himl mji m tribe living, as in ancient times,

i &m ajuu'itaiii fiaicvndiz, in Kurdistan^

lias cxmuaccted witii the Orootea of Ptolemy

(vi. 2. § 4). They derive their name from Eitcend,

a pure old Persian root, which was usually Hellen-

ized into Orodes or Orontes. (Kawlinson, Jovrn. of

Geog. Soc. x. p. 73.) [V.]

ORO'PUS (6 'npwirtJs, rarely 7) *-ty«iro>, Pans. vii.

11. § 4; comp. Step!., B. s. v.: Eth. 'tlpwirios, and ac­

cording to Steph B. '."Ifia-TT. iiv), a town on the borders

of Attica and Boeotia, and the capital of a district,

called after it Oropia (r) 'flpanrfa.) This district is

a maritime plain, through which the Asopus flows

into the sea, and extends for 5 miles along the shore.

It is separated from the inland plain of Tanagra by

some hills, which are a continuation of the principal

chain of the Diacrian mountains. Oropus was origi­

nally a town of Boeotia; and, from its position in the

maritime plain of the Asopus, it naturally belonged

to that country. (Paus. i. 34. § 1.) It was, however,

a frequent subject of dispute between the Athenians

and Boeotians; and the former people obtained pos­

session of it long before the Pel upon nesian War. It

continued in their hands till B. c. 412, when the

Boeotians recovered possession of it. (Time, viii. 60.)

A few years afterwards (b. c. 402) the Boeotians, in

consequence of a sedition of the Oropii, removed the

town 7 stadia from the sea (I)iod. xiv. 17.) During

the next 60 years the town was alternately in the

hands of the Atlienians and Boeotians (comp. Xen.

IhlL vii. 4. § 1, &c.). till at length Philip after the

battle of Chaeroncia gave it to the Atlienians. (Paus.

i. 34. § 1.) In B-C 318 the Oropians recovered

their liberty. (Diod. xviii. 56.) In b. c. 312 Cas-

sander obtained possession of the city; but Polemon,

the general of Antigonus, soon afterwards expelled

the Macedonian garrison, and handed over the city

to the Boeotians (Diod. xix. 77.) It has been con­

cluded from a passage of Dicaearchus (p. 11, ed.

Hudson) that Oropus continued to belong to Thebes

in the next century; but the expression otxia fchj€uv

is corrupt, and no safe conclusion can therefore be

drawn from the passage. Leake proposes to read

a-o:><\a Qtj€wv, Wordsworth OKia WijCuv. but C.

Miillcr, the latest editor of Dicaearchus, reads ov-

voittia Orfrwv. Dicaearchus calls the inhabitants

Athenian Boeotians, an epithet which he also applies

to the inhabitants of PUtaeae. Strabo also describes

Oropus as a Boeotian town (ix. p. 404); but Livy

(xlv. 27), Pausanias (/. c). and Pliny (iv. 7. f. 11)

place it in Attica. How long the Oropii inhabited

the inland city is uncertain. Pausanias expressly

says that Oropus was upon the sea (^irl OdAcktiujv.

i. 34. § 1); and the inhabitants had probably returned

to their old town long before his time.

Although Oropus was so frequently in the hands

of the Athenians, its name is never found among the

Athenian demi. Its territory, however, if nut the

town itself, appears to have been made an Attic

demus under the name of Graea {v Tpaia). In

Homer Oropus does not occur, but Graea is mentioned

among the Boeotian towns (//. ii. 498); and this

ancient name apjiears to have been revived by the

Atlienians as the official title of Oropus. Aristotle

said that Oropus was called Graea in his time (ap.

Steph. B.«?. v. ,np»7ro'i); and accordingly we find in

an inscription, belonging to this period, the Tpafjs

(rpofis) mentioned as a demus of the tribe Pandionis

(Ross & Meier, JJie Demen ronAttika, p. 6, seq.) In

the passage of Thueydides (ii. 23) wapioyrts 5e

'flponroi* r^v yfyv UftpcuK^y koAoujuVtj*', V rr-

fiiovrai 'Clpwitiot 'A&rivaiuiv tnr^Kooi, ih'ncaay, all

the existing MSS. have UttpoXKijv, but Stephanus,

who quotes the passage, reads rpoiWjF. which Poppo

