ROMA. ROMA. 795

Thr Aacrs Tibkrji, another triumphal arch,

"iatel to Tiberius, was erected at the foot of the

"i™ Capitolinus Dear the temple of Saturn, in

■ ^saturation of the recovery of the Boman stand-

rii Imt with the army of Varua. (Tac. Ann. ii. 41.)

aenae also restored the temple of Castor in the

rf hriiarif and of his brother Drusus, as well

> 'A* lanple of Concord, as we have before had oc-

iubb to remark.

I Ma the fallowing emperors down to the time of

•jutm we do not read of many alterations on the

nx- The fire of Nero seems to have chiefly de.

wyed ha lower part, where the temple of Vesta

-' iA» Kagia lay; the upper portion and the Capitol  
(war to hare escaped. The Curia Julia was

x^jjy barm down in the fire which occurred in

• r^vs of Titaa; at all events it was certainly re-

s.: S; iAnitian. The celebrated Statue of Vic-

<ar, runaecrmted in the curia by Augustus, appears,

vr,*r, to have escaped, since Dion Cassius ex-

mdf aaya that it existed in his time, and we find

ti^iuced even later. (Suet. Aug. 100; Dion

a Lti; Herodian, v. 5.) It was this statue,

am correct Iv perhaps the altar wluch stood be-

• ■ iaJ occasioned so warm a contention between

( ttrwtiaa and heathen parties in the senate in

'.^m of Tbeodoaius and Valentinian II., the

•-n reiag led by Ambroeius, the latter by Sym-

- u. Lie praefectua urbi. (Symmach. Epitt. x.  
: tL Aasbras. £pt*L ad calcem Symm. ed. Far.

1 7*0, 5- pp. 473, 492; Gibbon, Decline ami

i, rei. ui. p. 4W9, seq., ed. Smith.) Ambrose is

. to kasv obtained its removal; though this,

ii r. relates only to the altar, since the statue

-n'«ned br Claadian as still existing in the  
: «f Hawriuj. (De VI. Coat. lion. v. 597):—

Alfcir ipsa saU ales Victoria templU

i. .tuk tuteba topae: quae divite penna

I'a^ca reverend* fovet sacraria coetus."

■jtittaa had a peculiar predilection for two

-» Jaaiu and Minerva He erected so many  
ears all over the city that an ancient pasquiu-

a the Utrai of a Greek pun, was found in-

cpon one of them: "Jauos arcusque cum

»y et inai£Tiibtts triumphorum per fiegioues

^sxos ac toe extruxit ut cuidam Graece in-

torn ait, ifmtZ" (Suet. Aim. 13; cf. Dion

. ax. 1 ) Among other temples of Minerva

i gaai by some authorities to have erected one

it iram between those of Vesta and Castor,

nr. Hamdb. p_ 356.) But there seems to have

bsrdrr room for one at this spot; and, as we

hsfjrc retr^rkexl, the Xutitia does not mention

*»TTr in also built, in honour of his father  
Win the Tkmi'U or Vespasian AND

%SrXt to taw temple of Concord. Tbe three

at m the Ciivus Capitolinus most probably

( U il. The opinion that the eight Ionic

of this temple has been already

wt was tbe atate of the forum when tbe colossal

E uf DoMItian was erected on it

aV Lao* Cunios. Statius (SUvae i. 1) baa

aa small poein on this statue, and his descrip-

ff a asTjrila nuuij interesting topographical

(an. which full/ confirm what has been

)y ...i respecting tbe arrangement of the

at rrjeriaiposito moles

t' j-rr" octoplexa Coram?

Fluxit opus? Sicnlis an conformata caminis

Effigies, lassum Steropem Brontemque reliquit?

Par operi sedes. Hinc obvia limina pandit,

Qui fessus bellis, adscitae mnnere prolis,

Primus iter nostris ostendit in aethera divis.

At latemm paasus hinc Julia tecta tnentur

Illinc belligeri sublimis regia Paulli.

Terga pater blandoque videt Concordia vnltu.

Ipse autem pnrocelsum caput aere septus

Templa superfulges, et prospectare videris

An nova contemptis surgant palatia rlammis

Pulcrius; an tacita vigilet face TroTcns ignis

Atque exploratas jam laudct Vesta ministras," &c.

The statue, therefore, must have faced the east,

with the head slightly inclined to the right, so as to

behold the temple of Vesta and the Palatine. Di­

rectly in front of it rose the temple of Divus Julius;

on the right was the Basilica Julia, on the left the

Basilica Aemilia; whilst; behind, in close juxta­

position, were the temples of Concord and of Vespa­

sian and Titus. The site of the statue near the

Lacus Curtius is indicated in the poem (v. 75, seq.).

The next important monument erected on the

forum after the time of Domitian appears to have

been the Temple of Antoninus and Faustina,

considerable remains of which still exist before and

in the walls of the modem church of 3. Loretao in

Miranda. It stood at tbe eastern extremity of the

N. side of the forum. These remains, which are now

sunk deep in the earth, consist of the pronaoi

or vestibule, composed of eight columns of cipollino

marble supporting an architrave, also part of th»

cella, built of square blocks of piperino. The archi­

trave is ornamented with arabesque candelabra and

griffins. On the front the inscription is still

legible:—

D1VO . ANTOXINO . ET

D1VAE . KAV3T1XAE . 1 V . 3 . C .

TEMPLE OF ANTONINUS AND FAUSTINA.

But as a temple was decreed both to Antoninus

Pius and his wife, the elder Faustina (Capitol.

Anton. P. c. 6, 13), and to tbe younger Faustina,

their daughter (/6. c. 26), and as divine honours

were also rendered after his death to U. Anrelius

Antoninus, the husband of the latter, it becomes

doubtful to which pair the temple is to be referred

(Nibby, Foro Ram. p. 183). It seems, however,

most probable that it was dedicated to Antoninus

Pius and the elder Faustina. It is stated by Pirro

I.igorio (ap. Canina, Furo Ram. p. 192) that in

the excavations made here in 1547, the basis of a

