MOSCHI.

.•ir:i MOSF.LLA.

culty in identifying it with Kesem, the last seaport

westward of Cape Fartask, his "Syagros extreme."

(Gengr. qfArabia,vo\. ii. pp. 164. 178.) The posi­

tion assigned it by D'Anville at the modern Muscat

a certainly untenable. (lb. pp. 167, 168, 224. 233,

234.)

2. A second harbour of this name is mentioned

by the author of the Periplus, on the east of the

Syagros Proroontorium, in the large bay named by

Ptolemy Sachalites Sinus (2axaAiT7js koAttov), and

east of the smaller one, named Omana ("Ojiora), by

the author of the Periplus, who places this Moscha

Partus 1100 stadia east of Syagros. He calls it a

port appointed for the lading of the Sachalite in­

cense (Spuos awoocScry/ieVov toC XaxctKirov \i§d-

rov Tpoi i^iSoAV), frequented by ships from Cane,

and a wintering-place for late vessels from Limyrice

and Barygaza, where they bartered fine linen, and

corn, and oil for the native produce of this coast. Mr.

Forster furnishes an ingenious etymological explana­

tion of the recurrence of this name on the coast of

the Sachalites Sinus. "The Arabic Moscha, like

the Greek ajxdt, signifies a hide, or ikin, or a bag

of skin or leather blwcn up like a bladder. Now,

Ptolemy informs us that the pearl divers who fre­

quented his Sinus Sachalites (unquestionably the

site of Arrian's Moscha Portus), were noted for the

practice of swimming, or floating about the bay,

supported by inflated bides or skins. What more

Dal aril than that the parts frequented by these

divers should be named from this practice? . . .

And hence, too, the name of the Ascitae of Ptolemy

(' hunters on skins'), the actual inhabitants of his

Moscha Portus immediately west of his Suagros." It

is a remarkable fact mentioned by modern travellers,

that this practice still prevails among the fishermen

on this coast; for "as the natives have but few

canoes, they generally substitute a single inflated

akin, or two of these having a flat board across them.

On this frail contrivance the fisherman seats himself,

and either casts his small hand-net or plays his hook

sod line.'' (Lieut. Wellsted, Trarels in Arabia, vol. i.

pp. 79, 80. cited by Forster, Arabia, vol. ii. p. 175,

note*.) The identification of Arrian's Moscha with

the modern Ausera, is complete. Arrian reckons

600 stadia from Syagros across the bay which he

names Omana. This measurement tallies exactly

with that of the Bay of Seger, in Commodore Owen's

chart of tills coast, and from the eastern extremity of

this bay to Moscha Portus, Arrian assigns a dis­

tance of 500 stadia, which measures with nearly

equal exactness the distance to Rn$-al-Sair (the

Ausara of Ptolemy), situated about 60 Roman miles

to the east of the preceding headland. The identity

Of the Moscha Portus of Arrian with the Ausara of

Ptolemy is thus further corroborated. "Arrian states

his Moscha Portus to have been the emporium of

the incense trade; and Pliny proves Ausara to have

been a chief emporium of this trade, by his notice

of the fact that one particular kind of incense bore

the name of Aosaritis." (Plin. xii. 35; Forster,

L e. pp. 176, 177.) [G. W.]

MOSCHI (MAVxoi, Herat. Fr. 188, ap. Slepli. B.

a. r.), a Colchian tribe, who have been identified

with the Mehhech of the prophet Ezekicl (xxvii.

13; KnsenmUller, BibL Alterthumsk, vol. i. pt. i.

p 248). Along with the Tibareni, Mosynaeii,

Macrones, and Manlae, they formed the 19th sa­

trapy of the Persian empire, extending along the

SE. of the Euxine. and bounded on the S. by the

lofty chain of the Armenian mountains. (Herod, iii.

94, vii. 78.) In the time of Strabo (xi. pp. 497

—499) MoscmcE (Mo<rx"rfi) — in which was a

temple of Leucothea, once famous for its wealth, but

plundered by Phamaces and Mithridates — was

divided between the Colchians, Albanians, and

Iberians (comp. Mela, iii. 5. § 4; Plin. vi. 4).

Procopius (fi. G. iv. 2), who calls them MtVxoi,

says that they were subject to the Iberians, and had

embraced Christianity, the religion of their masters.

Afterwards their district became the appanage of

Liparites, the Abasgian prince. (Cedren. vol. ii.

p. 770; Le Bean, Bat Empire, vol. xiv. p. 355;

St. Martin, Memoires sur I'Armenie, vol. ii. p.

222.) [E. B. J.]

MO'SCHICI MONTES (re; KoffXuta Bpi), Strab.

i. p. 61, xi. pp. 492, 497, 521, 527, xii. p. 548,

Pint. Pump. 34; Mela, i. 19. § 13; Ptol. v. 6.

§ 13; Moschicus M., Plin. v. 27), the name applied,

with that of Paryadres, and others, to the mountain

chain which connects the range of Anti-Taurus

with the Caucasus. Although it is obviously im­

possible to fix the precise elevation to which the

ancients assigned this name, it may be generally

described as the chain of limestone mountains, with

volcanic rocks, and some granite, which, branching

from the Caucasus, skirts the E. side of Jmiretia,

and afterwards, under the name of the Perengah

Tdgh, runs nearly SW. along the deep valley of

Ajirah in the district of Tchildir; from whence it

turns towards the S., and again to the \V. along the

valley of the Aeampsis, to the W. of which, bearing

the name of the Kop Tdgh, it enters Lesser Asia.

(Ritter, Erdkunde, vol. x. p. 816; Chesney, Exped.

Euphrat. vol. i. p. 235.) [E. B. J.]

MUSE in Gallia appears in the Table on a road

from Durocortorum (Reims) to Meduantnm. [Me-

duantum.] The place appears to be Mouzon on

the Mima. D'Anville says that the place is called

Mosoniagus in the oldest middle age records. [G.L.]

MOSELLA (Mosel, Moselle), a river of Gallia,

whieh joins the Rhine at Coblenz [Confluemtks].

In the narrative of his war with the Usipetes and

Tenctheri Caesar (£. G. iv. 15) speaks o{ driving

them into the water M ad confluentem Mosae et

Rheni." One of the latest and best editors of Caesar,

who however is singularly ignorant of geography,

supposes this confluence of the Mosa and the Rhenus

to be the junction of the Mosa and a part of the

Rhenus which is mentioned by Caesar in another

place (B. G. iv. 10; Mosa.) But this is impossible,

as D'Anville had shown, who observes that the

Usipetes [Menapii] had crossed the Rhine in the

lower part of its course, and landed on the territory

of the Menapii. Having eaten them up, the invaders

entered the country of the Eburones, which we know

to be between the Rhine and the Mosa, and higher

np than the country of the Menapii. From the

Eburones the Germans advanced into the Condrusi

in the latitude of Lkge; and they were here before

Caesar set out after them. (B. G. iv. 6.) Caesar's

narrative shows that the German invaders were not

thinking of a retreat; their design was to penetrate

further into Gallia, where they had been invited by

some of the Gallic states, who hoped to throw off

the Roman yoke. After the defeat of the Germans

on the river, Caesar built his wooden bridge over the

Rhine, the position of which was certainly some­

where between Coblenz and Andtrnach. The con­

clusion is certain that this confluence of the Rhenus

and the Mosa is the confluence of the Rhenus and

the MoseUa at Coblenz; and we must explain Caesar's

B B 3

