766 ROMA.

two ancient inscriptions from Marini's Atti oV Fra-

UUi ArvaU (p. 212); in which a basilica Opimia is

recorded; and Becker, in his Anttcort (p. 33), con­

fessing that lie had overlooked these inscriptions,

retracted his doubts, and acknowledged the existence

of a basilica. According to Varro, then, the Aedis

Concordiae and basliea of Opimius were close to

the senaculurn; and the situation of the senaculurr.

is pointed oat by FestUS between the Capitol and

forum: "Unum (Senaculurn) ubi nunc est aedis

Concordiae, inter Capitoliura et Forum" (p. 3-47,

Mull.). This description corresponds exactly with the

site where the present remains of a temple of Con­

cord are unanimously agreed to exist: remains, how­

ever, which are supposed to be tiiose of the temple

founded by Camillas, and not of that founded by

Opimius. According to this supposition there must

have been two temples of Concord on the forum.

But if these remains belong to that of Camillas,

■who shall point out those of the temple erected by

Opimius? Where was its site? What its history?

When was it demolished, and its place either left

vacant or occupied by another building? Appian,

as we have seen, expressly says that the temple built

by Opimius was in the forum; where is the evidence

that the temple of Camillus was also in the forum?

There if positively none. Plutarch, the only direct

evidence as to its site, says no such thing, but only

that it looked down upon the forum: tyijeWourre

tj;? fUP 'O/ioWai itphv, wcircp 7jC£aro 6 Kd/uAAo?,

tff T7]v ayopav Kal tis T7/v ^KK\r}(riav Slttovtov £tti

Ttm yeytvrjufi'ots itipvaaadai (C<unUL 42). Now

wpopaw means to view from a distance, and espe­

cially from a height It Ls equivalent to the Latin

protpieertt the very term used by Ovid in describing

the same temple:—

"Nunc bene prospicies Latiam, Concordia, turbam."

These expressions, then, like Ovid's allusion to the

"sublimes gradns" of Moueta, point to the Arx as

the site of the temple. It is remarkable that Lucan

(Phar*. i. 19")) employs the same word when de­

scribing the temple of Jupiter Tonans, erected by

Augustus, also situated upon the Arx, or liupes

Tarpeta:—

"0 magnac qui mocnia prospicis urbis

Tarpeta do rape Tonans."

This temple, indeed, has also been placed on the

clivus, on the authority of the pseudo-Victor, and

against the express evidence of the best authorities.

Thus an inscription in Grutcr (Ixxii. No. 5), con­

sisting of some lines addressed to Fort una, likewise

places the Jupiter Tonans on the Tarpeian rock:—

u Tu quae Tar[>eio coleris vieina Tonanti

Votorum vindex semper fortuna meorum," &c.

Suetonius (Aug. c. 29 and 91), Pliny (xxxri 6)

and the Mon. Ancyranum, place it "in Capi-

tolio," meaning the Capitoline hill. It 1ms been

absurdly inferred that it was on the clivus, be­

cause Dion says that those who were g"ing up to

the great temple of Jupiter met with it first, — Sri

■parrel ol ttVtoVrcs is to KatrnuXiov h'trtf/xavov

(Ht. 4). which they no doubt would do, since the

clivus led first to the western height.

On these grounds, then, we are inclined to believe

that the temple of Concord erected by Camillus stood

on the Arx, and could not, therefore, have had any

steps leading to the temple of Juno Moneta. The

latter was likewise founded by Camillus, as we

learn from Livy and Ovid :—

"Arce qnoque in summa Junoni trmpli 1

Ex voto memorant facta, Camilfe, too:

Ante domus Manli foer&nt" (Fa*, vi. IS});

and thus these two great works of the ocm

stood, as was natural, close together, aU « 4i

temple of Concord and the basilica fabeqenaj1

erected by Opimius also adjoined one mother a *J

near the clivus. It is no objection totaaeJB

that there was another small temple <rfG«

the /Irx, which had been vow«

Manlius in Gaul during a seditk

'Die vow had been almost overt*

lapse of two years it was recollected, acd :bf tflfjl

erected in discharge of it. (Liv. xxii.S3.) ltaaaj

therefore, to have been a small affair, sal all

very well have coexisted on the Arx wfjj oStl

and more splendid temple.

But to return to Becker's arguments. IWfl

proof adduced is Caligula's bridge. "Csaffl

he says, as Binisen ha* remarked. - caa*4 *M|

to be thrown from the Palatine hill ewer tfct vm

of Augustus (and probably the Bauika JafS

the Capitoline temple, which is altoeeftafl

conceivable if the latter was on the haffl

.1 r to ii, as in that case the bridge iccst bsval

conducted over the forum" (p. 393). Im

Becker goes further tkm bis author. *h*4

says that Caligula threw a bridge from the Fafl

hill to the Capitoline: "Super t em pleat aflH

gusti ponte transmisso, Palatium CapiufiaS

conjunxit." (Suet, CaL 22.) Becker oafl

renders Palatium by the ** Palatine hflfl

when he comes to the other hill he caaaaa

into a temple. Suetonius o

of the use of these words in a passage

We had occasion to allude just now, i

temple of Jupiter Tonans : '* Temp!am Af4H

Palatio (extruxit), aedem Tonanti* Jowa Ba^

tolio" (Aug. 29) ; where, if Becker's *T

right, we might by analogy translate.—*fcM

a temple of Apollo in the palace."

The next proof is that a lar^e piece nf ■

down from the Capitol ("ex Capitidio") iniatffl

Jngarirts(Liv. xxxv. 21); and as the V*a»

ran under the S. summit, this shows thai 1

toline temple was upon it. Bat pieces ef I

down from hills, not from building*, *M. I

Capitolium here only means the haSL

manner when Livy says (axxriiL W), *

tionem super Aemiimelium in Capitohu I

loravemnt)," it is plain that be ma

hill; and consequently this passage i» i

of this use of the word. The Aequraesi

by the Virus Jugarius, and o.-uld n<-t, ibefeftaV

been on the Capitol properly so called, e**fle^H

had been on the SW. height. Becker vreaajH

lates this passage,—u a substruction ofdmt

over the Acjuiinelium" (p. 3**3.) Thee eaaaj

passage respecting the statue at Jupiter baeaejl

towards the east, that it might behead aafl

and curia; which Becker maintains to be wtM

of a statue erected on the height of .Iraaaa^H

who have seen the ground will net ba

coincide in this opinion. The rfraa

column (I>ion Cass. xxxviL 9: Cic. Z>m. 1

Id. Cat. iii. 8). and most probably imt

temple — it could hardly have bean paaaeK

it; and, therefore, if the t em pie wata aafl

height, the statue must hare been at taeaaa

of it; a site which certainly would nca 4

veiy good view of the forum. Next the el

e r.eaal

- 1

