MESSENIA. MESSENIA. 341

I. General Description of the Country.

Messenia, in its general features, resembles La­

conia. The Pamisus in Messenia, like the Eurotas

in Laoonia, flows through the entire length of the

country, from north to south, and forms its most

cultivated and fertile plains. But these plains are

much larger than those in Laconia, and constitute

a considerable portion of the whole country; while

the mountains on the western coast of Messenia are

much less rugged than on the eastern coast of

Laconia, and contain a larger proportion of fertile

land. Hence the rich plains of Messenia are often

contrasted with the sterile and rugged soil of Laconia;

and the climate of the former country is praised by

the ancients, as temperate and soft, in comparison

with that of the latter. The basin of the Pamisus is

divided into two distinct parts, which are separated

from each other on the east by a ridge of mountains

extending from Mt, Taygetus to the Pamisus, and

on the west by Mt. It home. The upper part,

called the plain of Stenyclerus or Stenyclarus (t6

2-TfWK\7i(nHby weoiW), is of small extent and

moderate fertility, and is entirely shut in by moun­

tains. The lower plain, which ojens to the Mes­

senian gulf, is much more extensive, and was some­

times called Macaria (Matcapid), or the "Blessed,"

oo account of its surprising fertility. (Strab. viii.

p. 361.) It was, doubtless, to this district that

Euripides referred, when he described the excellence

of the Messenian soil as too great for words to

explain, and the land as watered by innumerable

streams, abounding in fruits and flocks; neither too

hut in summer, nor too cold in winter. (Eurip. ap.

Strab. viii. p. 366.) Even in the present day,

although a part of the plain has become marshy by

neglecting the embankments of the Pamisus, it is

described by travellers as the most fertile district in

the Peloponnesus. It now produces oil, silk, figs,

wheat, maize, cotton, wine, and honey, and presents

as rich a cultivation as can well be imagined.

(Leake. Morea, vol. i. pp. 347, 352.) Besides the

Pamisus, numerous other streams and copious per­

ennial springs gush in all directions from the base

of tbe mountains. The most remarkable feature on

the western coast is the deep bay of Pylos, now

called Satarino, which is the best, and indeed the

only really good harbour in the Peloponnesus.

II. Mountains, Promontories, Rivers, and

Islands.

1. Mountains.— The upper plain, in which are

tbe sources of the Pamisus, was the original abode

of tbe Messenians, and the stronghold of the nation.

H*re was Andania, the capital of the most ancient

Mc**nian kings. Thither tbe Mcssenians retreated,

a* often as they were overpowered by their enemies

is tbe lower plains, for here were their two great

Datura! fortresses, Ithotne and Eira, the former

commanding the entrance to the lower plain, and

tbe latter situated in the mountains, which rise in

the northern part of the upper plain. These moun­

tains, now called Tetrda, form, as has been already

•aid. the watershed of the rivers Neda, Pamisus, and

AifJieius. From this central ridge, which is 4554

feet high, a chain extends towards the west, along

the banks of the Neda, and is also prolonged towards

tV sooth, forming the mountains of the western

pfraiuala, and terminating at the promontory Acritas.

Ynrn tbe same central ridge of Tetrdzi, another

chain extends towards the east, dividing the Mea­

tman plain from the upper basin of the Alpheius,

and then uniting with Mount Taygetus, and form­

ing the barrier between the basins of the lower

Pamisus and the Eurotas. These two mountain

chains, which, issuing from the same point, almost

meet about half-way between Mount Tatrdzi and the

sea, leave only a narrow defile through which the

waters of the Pamisus force their way from the

upper to the lower plain. South of this defile the

mountains again retire to the east and west, leaving

a wide opening for the lower plain, which has been

already described.

Scarcely in any part of Greece have the names of

the ancient mountains been so little preserved as in

Messenia. Tetrdzi was perhaps the mountains

of Eira. Tbe eastern continuation of Tetrazi. now

named Mahypbii, formed part of tbe ancient

Mt, Nomia. (No^iia Spn, Psus. viii. 38. § 11.)

The western prolongation of Tetrazi along the

banks of the Neda was called Elaf.uh ('EAdW),

now Kuvela, And was partly in the territories of

Phigalia. (Paus. viii. 41. § 7.) The mounuins

Ithome and Evan are so closely connected with

the city of Messene that they are described under

that head. [Mkssene.] In the southern chain

extending down the western peninsula, the names

only of Aegaleum, Buphras, Tomeus or Mathia,

and Temathia have been preserved. Akoalkum

(AryaA.e'oi') appears to have been the name of the

long and lofty ridge, running parallel to the western

shore between Cyparissia and Coryphasium (Pylos);

since Strabo places the Messenian Pylos at the foot

of Mt. Aegaleum (viii. p. 359; Leake, Morea, vol. i.

pp. 426, 427). Blpiikas ()'; Bovippis) and

Tomeus (o Tu/ui'v) are mentioned by Thucydides

(iv. 118) as points near Coryphasium (Pylos),

beyond which the Lacedaemonian garrison in the

latter place were not to pass. That they were

mountains we may conclude from the statement of

Stepbanus B., who speaks of the TouaToF opos

near Coryphasium. (Stcph. B. s. v. Topifit.) Te­

mathia (TijpoMa), or Matiiia (Madia, the reading

is doubtful), was situated, according to Pausanias

(iv. 34. § 4), at the foot of Corone, and must there­

fore correspond to Lykotlimo, which rises to the

height of 3140 feet, and is prolonged southward in

a gradually falling ridge till it terminates in the

promontory Acritas.

2. Promontories. — Of these only four are men­

tioned by name, — Acritas (Ahdi'tos), now C.

Gallo, the most southerly point of Messenia [Acri­

tas]; and on the west coast Corvhiasiim,

forming the entrance to the bay of Pylus [Pylus];

Platamodf.3 (TWarapuiSris, Strab. viii. p. 348),

called by Pliny (iv. 5. s. 6) Platanodes, distant,

according to Strabo (f. c), 120 stadia N. of Cory­

phasium, and therefore not far from Aia Kyriake

(Leake, vol. i. p. 427); and lastly Cyparissium

[Cyparissia], a little further north, so called from

the town Cyparissia.

3. Rivers.— The Pamisus (napis-os) is described

by Strabo as the greatest of the rivers within tlio

Isthmus (viii. p. 361); but this name is only given

by the ancient writers to the river in the lower

plain, though the modems, to facilitate the descrip­

tion of the geography of the country, apply this

name to the whole course of the waters from their

sources in the upper plain till they fall into the

Messenian gulf. The principal river in the upper

plain was called Bai.yha (BaKt'pa). It rises near

the village of Sulimd, and flows along the western

side of the plain: two of the streams composing it

z 3

