PELIUM. FELLA. 569

or a afagtareous past for making excursions

i.u tit oror'j territory. [ E. B. J ]

rCllUH (ffl>Aie»), m lofty mountain in Thessaly,

ansae "h"! the coast of Magnesia. It rues to

■■ oati of Osu, and the last falls of the two

. r'Ma ire coioected by a low ridge. (Herod,

n IJJ,) It forms a chain of some extent, stretch-

v 'ros Ml Ossa to the extremity of Magnesia,

*fcnt it terminates in the promontories of Sepias  
■1 AMntimm. It attains its greatest height above

l*m Aronlin; to Ovid it is lower than Ossa

(>"t m. 441), which Dodwell describes as about

feet hiffh. In form it has a brood and ex­

it i<d ratline, and is well contrasted with the

»w ttnieal shape of Ossa. On its eastern

t> Ml Peliuro rises almost precipitously from

* and its rocky and inhospitable shore  
|art oxiauot rh|A(ov, Eurip. Ale. 595) proved

ts tk» fleet of Xerxes. ( Leake, Northern Greece,

* t. (i 384.) Ml Pelium is still covered with ve-  
isvle fvartx, to which frequent allusion is made

a u» itdmt poets. Uomer constantly gives it the

■Ax of urtxrHmkXov (II. ii. 744, &c). Its

aVawiaammit is clothed with oaks, and its eastern

Or tresis with chestnuts; besides which there

rri-^rj <£ beeches, elms, and pines. (Dicaearch.

»«nr* MmL PtL in Geogr. Graee. Min. n. 106,

Ihra, 1855; Or. fast v. 381; Valer. Flacc.

I«>

a. y.-brrn is celebrated in mythology. It plays

in man part in the war of the giants and the

* ante the giants are said to have piled Ossa  
k I'eiram. in order to scale Olympus. It has been

■n«4 last this part of the fable is well explained

it' r-sarcni* forma of Ossa and Pelium. As Pe­

te • nrvad from the south, two summits are seen

6' mjerable distance from each other,—a con-

• btreea them, bat so slight as almost to give

'"*'■« a table-mountain, upon which fiction

» isatDv soppose that another hill of the

./Ossa should recline. (Holland. Tra-

l*4.ka.M.) Mt. Pelium was said to he the

* * at tl.e Centaurs, and more especially of

tie instructor of Achilles, a legend to

■ us rather of medicinal plants found on the

*>"> prrbaps gave rise. (Dicaearch. L c.; Horn.  
I 'O. XTi. 143; Find. Pyth. ii. 83, iii. 7;

t &•"».«.«.)

••tag to Dicaearch us (i c), the cave of

v~ *j| i temple of Zeus Actaeus occupied the

tt 4 the mountain. The same writer relates

i the custom of the sons of the principal

* rf Dttnetrias. selected by the priest, to  
Hrwry year to this temple, clothed with thick

I * aomnrt of the cold, between the two

■* af Ml Pelium there is a fine cavern, now

M* am by the name of the cave of Achilles,

astaroa with the position of the rave of

■L sssfjeasd bv Dicaearchus. The same

•UrnKfpeaks of two rivers of Mt. Pelium,

K' :r i Hr\<!|..Il. tine of them

* *nad Zemkkia, and falls into the gulf  
X'tkiri and St. Georye. ( Leake. Northern

|*i *i iv. p. 384, seq.) Lastly, Pelium

<Bxi with the Ule of the Argonauts,

tester of which their ship was built was

« the forests of this mountain. The

ut» ranrnit of Mt. l'eliain is now named

.' bat the mountain is frequently called

ha the town of this name immediately

■aanut on the eastern side. (Leake, /. c.;

Mrfzieres, ifemoire sur le Pelion et VOssa, Paris,

1853.)

PELLA (n.'AAo, Herod, vii. 123; Time. ii. 99,

100; Strab. vii. pp. 320, 323, 330, Fr. 22, 23:

Ptol. iii. 13. § 39, viii. 12. § 8; Plin. iv. 17; //in.

Anton.; Itin. Ilierosol.; Petit. Tab.; MWr\,

Hierocles), the capital of Macedonia. At the time

when Xerxes passed through Macedon, Pella, which

Herodotus (/. c.) calls a woMxvtov, was in the

hands of the Bottiaeans. Philip was the first t

make Pella, which Amyntas had been obliged to

evacuate (Xen. Ilellen. v. 2. § 13; comp. Diodor.

xiv. 92, xv. 19), a place of importance (Dem. <fe

Cor. p. 247), and fixed the royal residence there:

there was a navigation from the sea by the Lydias,

though the marshes, which was 120 stadia in length,

exclusive of the Lydias. (Scyl. p. 26.) These

marshes were called Borboros (BdpSopot), as ap­

pears from an epigram (Theocrit. Chius, ap. Phil,

de Exit. vol. viii. p. 380, ed. Iieiske), in which Ari­

stotle is reproached for preferring a residence near

them to that of the Academy. Archestratus (ap.

Athen. vii. p. 328, a.) related that the lake pro­

duced a fish called "chromis," of great size, and

particularly fat in summer. From its position on a

hill surrounded by waters, the metropolis of Philip,

and the birthplace of Alexander (Juv. x. 168;

Lucan, x. 20), soon grew into a considerable city.

Had Alexander not been estranged from Macedonia,

it would probably have attained greater importance.

Antipater lived there as regent of Macedonia, but

Cassander spent less of his time at Pella, than at.

Thessalonica and Cassandreia; from the time of

Antigonus Gonatas till that of Perseu9, a period of

nearly a century, Pella remained the capital, and was

a splendid town. (Liv. xxvi. 25, xxxvii. 7, xfii.

41, 51, 67, xliii. 43, xliv. 10.) Livy (xliv. 46) lrns

left the following description, derived undoubtedly

from Polybius, of the construction of the city

towards the lake. "Pella stands upon a height

sloping to the SW., and is bounded by marshes

which are impassable both in winter and summer,

and are caused by the overflowing of a lake. The

citadel" (the word " arx" is wanting in our copies of

Livy, but seems absolutely necessary both to the

sense and the grammar) " rises like an island from

the part of the marsh nearest to the city, being

built upon an immense embankment, which defies all

injury from the waters; though appearing at a

distance to be united to the wall of the city, it is in

reality separated from it by a wet ditch, over which

there is a bridge, so that no access whatever is

afforded to an enemy, nor can any prisoner whom the

king may confine in the castle escape, but by the

easily guarded bridge. In the fortress was the royal

treasure." It was surrendered to Aemilius Paulina

(Liv. xlv. 45), and became, according to Strab)

(p. 323) and the Itineraries, a station on the

Egnatian Way, and a colony. (Plin. Ic.) Dion

Chrysostomus (Oral. Tart. Prior, vol. ii. p. 12. ed.

Reiske) says that Pella was a heap of ruins; but

from the fact that there are coins of the colony of

Pella, ranging from Hadrian to Philip, this must be

an exaggeration. The name of the city is found as

late as the sixth century of our era, as it occurs in

Hierocles. It would seem indeed as if the name

had survived the ruins of the city, and had reverted

to the fountain, to which it was originally attached;

as at a small distance from the village named

Seokh&ri or Yenikiuy, which has been identified

with a portion of the ancient Pella, there is a spring

