PALAESTINA. 523 PALAESTINA.

Urfk (L SO). The mistake is the more unac-

■ u'jiit, u bt not only describes the Dead Sea in

i -tu»r«bich shows that he wag thoroughly ac-

t*.1 ud with its peculiarities, bat also cites the

fciuoi of more indent authors, who had described

m ntsnpisj to explain its phaenomena. His

nn a paraljirly interesting from the accounts

ikkfl at rnmi of the formation of the bitumen, and

i* *ba* indications which he mentions in the vi-

ah rf the operation of volcanic agency, of which

*n will be said in the following chapter. The  
uitf tnditiom of the catastrophe uf the cities of the

pr. idJ the still existing monuments of their over-

Lnt, m tuts not mentioned by the earlier historian.

"Tit like Stroonb is of great extent: some have

i-jv a ciirutttcrencs at 1000 stadia; it stretches

■■w Mr the iti-eoast, in length a little more than

gVitaiia, deep, and with exceedingly heavy water,

• Detailnot necessary to swim, but one whoad-

wsas ib'j it up to hi* waist is immediately borne up.

k i M of tspbalt, which it vomits np at uncertain

ss»a ban the midst of the depth, together with

kcaa lit those of boiling water, and the surface,

en-r* osdf, sHntnes the appearance of a crest,

fcetier with the asphalt there rises much soot,

or.' ix invisible to the sight, by which brass,

e>r oj everything shining, even gold, is tar-

fe*i. tad by the tarnishing of their vessels the

sJuuati of the neighbourhood know the time

earn -ht ssphslt begins to rise, and make prepa-

*~ai f« collecting it by constructing rafts of  
Ike. Sow the asphalt is the soil of the earth

■erf br heat, and bubbling up, and again changed

• aid man by cold water, such as that of the

a that it requires to be cut; it then floats on

*.4xt by reason of the nature of the water,  
■a fc I have said, is such that a person who

■xa it oead not swim, and indeed cannot sink,

a sipported by the water. The people then

p t> • tbf rafts, and cut and carry off as much

[*•" aa of the asphalt: this is what takes place.

states that they being sorcerers use

and consolidate the asphalt by

'<*er it urine and other foul liquids, and

msiog them out. After this they cut it;

prtiini uriiie has the same properties as in

JkUilcr of those who suffer from stone. For

(XfvffMdAfca, borax) is made with the

^■T>- In the midst of the lake the phae-

aay reasonably take place, because the

■i U* Ere. and tiiat of the asphalt, as well as

[untitles of it, are in the middle; and

I uncertain, because the movements

order known to us, as is that of many

P«> (mvpora). This also takes place in

Baa ef Epeirus. There are many other evi-

m of the existence of fire beneath the

a*f. fervent rough burnt rocks are shown

asa [Masada], and caves in several places,

* fared of ashes, and drops of pitch ■listil-  
■» tht rocks, and boiling streams, with an

ta olmr perceptible from a distance, and

•"w-hrown in every direction, so as to give

*.* W the legends of the natives, that tor-  
ibrtea cities stood on this spot, of the

a «bich, namely, Sodoma, ruins still

r~»as: 60 stadia in circumference; that the

a fiRaal by earthquakes and the ebullition

aa bat water impregnated with bitumen and

-". 'ill the rocks took fire; and that some of  
"*t« (wallowed up, and others were dc-

serted by those of their inhabitants who could es­

cape. Eratosthenes gives a different account,

namely, that the country being marshy, the greater

part of it was covered like the sea by the bursting out

of the waters. Moreover, in the territory of Gadara,

there is some pernicious lake-water, which when tho

cattle drink, they lose their hair, hoofs, and horns.

At the place named Tarichiae the lake affords ex­

cellent salt fish; it also produces fruit-trees, re­

sembling apple-trees. Tlte Egyptians use the

asphalt for embalming the dead." (Lib. xvi. pp.

763, 764.)

Another confusion must be remarked at the close

of this passage, where Strabo evidently places Tari­

chiae on the Dead Sea, whereas it is situated, on the

shores of the Eea of Tiberias.

The next writer is the Jewish historian, who adds

indeed little to the accurate information conveyed

by his predecessors; but his account is evidently

independent of the former, and states a few facts

which will be of service in the sequel. Josephus

wrote about A. D. 71.

"It is worth while to describe the character of the

lake Asphaltites, which is salt and unproductive, as I

mentioned, and of such buoyancy t bat it sustains even

the heaviest substances thrown into it, and that even

one who endeavours to sink in it cannot easily do so.

For Vespasian, having come to examine it, ordered

some persons who could not swim to be bound with

their hands behind their backs, and to be cast into

the deep; and it happened that all of them floated

on the surface as if they were bome up by the force

of a blast. The changes of its colour also are re­

markable; for thrice every day it changes its ap­

pearance, and reflects different colours from the rays

of the sun It also emits in many places black

masses of bitumen, which float on the surface, some­

what resembling headless bulls in appearance and

size. The workmen who live by the lake row out,

and, laying hold of the solid masses, drag them into

their boats; but when they have filled them they

do not find it easy to cut the bitumen, for, by reason

of its tenacity, the boat adheres to the mass until it is

detached by means of the menstruous blood of women

or urine, to which alone it yields. It is used not only

tor shipbuilding but also for medicinal purposes ; it

is mixed with several drugs. The length of this

lake is 580 stadia, as it extends as far as Zoara of

Arabia: its breadth is 150 stadia. On the borders

of the lake lies the territory of Sodom, formerly a

flourishing country, both on account of the abund­

ance of its produce and the number of its cities;

now it is all an arid waste. It is said that it was

destroyed by lightning, on account of the wickedness

of its inhabitants. The traces of tho heavenly lire

and the ruins of five cities may still be seen; and

ashes are found even in the fruits, which are of an

appearance resembling the edible kinds, but which,

when plucked, turn into smoke and ashes. Such

confirmation do the legends concerning the land of

Sodom receive from actual observation." (Joseph.

B. J. iv. 8. § 4.)

The Dead Sea and its marveLn was a subject

suited to the inquiring spirit of the naturalist; and

Pliny's account, though brief, is reniHrkably clear

and accurate, except that, in common with all

writers, he greatly overstates its size. He wrote

probably too soon (a. d. 74) after Josephus to avail

himself of his account, end may, therefore, be re­

garded as an independent authority.

"This lake produces nothing but bitumen, from

