POMPEII. 649 POMPEII.

n£ a its alfiml front: they were further for-

si ictrfvah with square towers, which in some

aruumr rtpiiarljr at about 100 yards from each

>-. in ndier parts are added much more spar-

•Ctt. Then toons seem to hare been subsequent

iMtio to the original walls, being of a different

wi km solid (trie of construction. The walls

kawlta ire Terr solidly built of large blocks of

nmtisi, in horizontal courses, but presenting con-

limif imgukritm of construction: the upper

ut u mora regularly finished, and consists of pe-

•rm. Bat both walls and towers are in many

km pursed with coarser masonry and reticulated

«k. ibis showing that they had been frequently

•aiml tod at distant intervals of time.

Tu from! plan of the city is very regular, and

■ rrolcr part of the streets run in straight lines:

I the principal line of street, which runs from the

• 4 liercoJiacam to the Forum, is an exception,

■f irregular and crooked as welt as very narrow,

avb it must undoubtedly have been one of the

Wlkntghhns of the city, and the line followed

U« hirh road from Capua, Neapnlis, and Koine

K it i« not exceed 12 or 14 feet in width,

lata? the raised trottoirs or footpaths on each

L to that the carriageway could only have ad-

le the passage of one vehicle at a time. Some

lit lia streets are broader; but few of them

»i JO feet in width, and the widest yet found

■It about 30. They are uniformly paved with

t* :''v.unal blocks of hard lava or basalt, in

<axc manner as were the streets of ancient

s». asd the V~ia Appia, and other great highways

m part of Italy. The principal street, already

■i nt crossed, a little before it reached the

*». by a long straight line of street which,  
hf ly the temple of fortune, led direct to the

!« Nola. Id the angle formed by the two

t tht public baths or Thermae, and between

Had the temple of Fortune a short broad street

bet to the Forum, of which it seems to have

■d the principal entrance. From the Forum

<abrr parallel streets struck off in an easterly

!»«. which have been followed till they cross

av main line of street that leads from the

t Vomrius directly across the city to the gate

•at the theatres. This last line crosses the

I Brady noticed, leading from the gate of Nola

■K, and the two divide the whole city into

r*t»ra, though of irregular size. Great part

I my (especially the SE. quarter) has not yet

Irflsrul. but recent excavations, by following

■» «f these main streets, have clearly shown

toil plan, and the regularity with which the

'streets branched off at intervals in parallel

Then ia akw little doubt that the part of the

foiiy excavated is the most important, as it

as the Forum, with the public buildings ad*

I — it, the theatres, amphitheatre, &c

■ /eras) was situated in the SW. quarter of

*>. sad was distant about 400 yards from the  
•f Herrulaneum. As was commonly the case

times, it was surrounded by the principal

: 'iiings, and was evidently the centre of

«■ sad novement of the city. The extent of

• M. however, great; the) actual open space

•nv of the porticoes which surrounded it) did

■*>d 160 yards in length by 35 in breadth,

> aw «f this space was occupied by the temple

nc>r U ro surrounded on three sides by a

aa-Urk portico or colonnade, which appears

to have been surmounted by a gallery or upper

story, though no part of this is now preserved. 11

would seem that this portico had replaced an older

arcade on the eastern side of the Forum, a portion

of which still remains, so that this alteration wns

not yet completed when the catastrophe took place.

At the north end of the Forum, and projecting out

into the open area, are the remains of an edifice

which must have been mnch the most magnificent

of any in the city. It is commonly known, with

at least a plausible foundation, as the temple of

Jupiter; others dispute its being a temple at all,

and have called it the Senaculum, or place of meet­

ing of the local senate. It was raised on a podium

or base of considerable elevation, and had a portico

of six Corinthian columns in front, which, according

to Sir W. Cell, are nearly as large as those in the

portico of St. Paul's. From the state in which it

was found it seems certain that this edifice (in

common with most of the public buildings at Pom­

peii) had been overthrown by the earthquake of 63,

or, at least, so much damaged that it was necessary

to restore, and in great part rebuild it. and that this

process was still incomplete at the time of its final

destruction. At the NE. angle of the Forum, ad­

joining the temple of Jupiter, stood an arch which

appears to have been of a triumphal character,

though now deprived of all its ornaments: it was

the principal entrance to the F'orum, and the only

one by which it was accessible to carriages of any

description. On the E. side of the Forum were

four edifices, all unquestionably of a public cha­

racter, though we are much in doubt as to their

objects and destination. The first (towards the N.)

is generally known as the Pantheon, from its having

contained an altar in the centre, with twelve pe­

destals placed in a circle round it, which are sup­

posed to have supported statues of the twelve chief

gods. But no traces have been found of these, and

the general plan and arrangement of the building

are wholly unlike those of an ordinary temple. A

more plausible conjecture is, that it was consecrated

to Augustus, and contained a small temple or

aedicula in honour of that emperor, while the court

and surrounding edifices were appropriated to the

service of his priests, the Augustales, who are men­

tioned in many inscriptions as existing at Pompeii.

Next to this building is one which is commonly

regarded as the Curia or Senaculum; it had a

portico of fluted columns of white marble, which

ranged with those of the general portico that sur­

rounded the Forum. South of this again is a build­

ing which was certainly a temple, though it is

impossible now to say to what divinity it was

consecrated; it is commonly called the Temple of

Mercury, and is of small size and very irregular

form. Between this and the street known as the

Street of the Silversmiths, which issued from the

Forum near its SE. angle, was a large building

which, as we learn from an inscription still existing,

was erected by a female priestess named Eumacbia.

It consists of a large and Bpacious area (about 130

feet by 65) surrounded by a colonnade, and having

a raised platform at the end with a semicircular

recess similar to that usually found in a Basilica.

But though in this case the founder of the edifice

is known, its purpose is still completely obscure.

It is commonly called the Chalcidicum, but it is pro­

bable that that term (which is found in the in­

scription above noticed) designates only a part of

the edifice, not the whole building.

