roxTus. POPULONIUM. 659

the dominion of Persia (Herod, iii. 94, vii.

X *nl • l- governed by hereditary satraps

lo the royal family of Tenia. In the time

the tribes of Pontus governed by native

to have still enjoyed a high degree of

•KK,,r. But in b.c. 363, in the reign of Ar-

mmem II-, Ariobartaiies subdued several of tho

r*-«ts«o tribe*, and thereby laid the foundation of an

» ^|»r»l< nt kingdom in those parts. (L)iod. xv.

►u.) He was succeeded in B.C. 337 by Mithri-

b>*»» I'-, who reigned till b. c. 302, and who, by

*•.fatly availing himself of the circumstances of  
■e timea daring the straggles ainong the successors

'Aleundcr, considerably enlarged his kingdom,

uftrr an toe throne was occupied by Mithridates

II, fraan ft. c 302 to 266; Ariobarzanes III., from

<- 266 probably till 240. The chronology of this

:-i tke tallowing kings, Mithridates IV., Pharnu-

■ L, and Mithridates V, U very uncertain. Under

'-.-iiiatea VI., from o. c. 120 to 63, the kingdom

Poatue attained the height of its extent and

bat hat <rm with the Itomans led to its sub-

tuhm mod dismemberment. Pompey, the con-

• r of llitlirhi.>■• in b. c. 65 annexd the

■■■■-a part of Pontus as far as Ischicopolis and

t fn«uarr» of Cappadocia to Bithvnia (Dion Cass,

a. 42 j Strab. xii. pp. 541, 543'; Veil. Pat. ii.

• Lrr. Kfnt. 1U2X and gave away the remaiu-

: parts to aucne ot the chiefs or princes in the ad-

i**z amxoxriea. A portion of the country betweci:

i Ira* and Italy* was given to the Galatian Deio-

am, which Bras henceforth called Pontns Galaticus

rah mii. p. 5-4 7; Dion Cass. xli. 63, xlii. 45;

£. v. 6- §§ 3, 9 ) The Colchians and other

m in the aotith-east of the Kuxine received a

r nf their own in the person of Aristarchus.

f/m. Midkrid. 114; F.utrop. vi. 14.) Phar-

n IL. the treacherous son of Mithridates, re-

i i lbe Crimea an<i some adjoining districts as an

r_»-.«ient kragdom under the name of Bosporus

fuam, Mitkrid. I lO, <Vc.); and the central part,

• the trie to Pttamacia, was subsequently given

K \ tee . to Pcdernon, the son of Phamaces,

»*» beta iifii Th designated by the name of ran-

■■„* iru* ( I'ud. v. 6. §§4, 10; Eatrop. vii.

jkarrt. Vict- t*e Caes. 15), which it retained

rwaria, even when it bad become incorporated

i iV Roman em pi' c. The eastern part, which

Imat bees ceded to Polemon, was transferred

rythndoris to king Archelaus of Cap

••a. aha married her, and was thenceforth railed

ha Ca^tpadorioa. In 1'ontus Polemoniacus,

Mara a-aa aisu-ecded by her son Polemon II.,

■ aafad hia kingdom into the hands of the

a*r Hero (&uc«. Aer. 18; Eutrop. vii. 14). PoD-

*m then made at Koman province, a.d. 63, under  
aw of Ponlu* I'ofemoniacus, the administration

hah was seaiataTimea combined »ith that of Ga-

■ la the new arrangements under Constantine,

■■■■lis eraa fin divided into two parts; the

t-aeuera one. erhich had home the name of

a* (Waaorna, was called Helenopontus, in ho­

of (fee eapanrs mother Helena , and the east-

K. Wwlurh I'uotoa Cappodocius was added,

r aeawe oaf fosatua Polemoniacus. (,\ ottll.

•■ 1: HaerocL p. T02.) Besides these provin-

laas a , there also e-xtist a number of names of

ar wparate dxatricCa, each as Gazklonitih,

udi TansiatcTacA, Sipex*; and in the in-

r rmAzcatoxi-rxa. yiMOLMuar., DiAcorK.SK,

•"•M*. HuiMoxm*! ZEunus, Xuiue, and

MecvLoroLrris. These, as well as the most im­

portant towns, Ami-is. Polkmonium, Cotyora,

Pharnacia, Cerasus, TraI'KZUS, Apsarus, Ca-

bira, Gaziura, Zela, Comana Pontica, Nko-

CAESARF.1A, SkBASTIA, ThKMISCYKA, PlIAZEMON,

&C are described in separate articles. [L. S.]

PONTUS EUXINUS. [EcxiNL-3 Po.ntus.]

POPliLI or P0P0I.I, a small place in the west

of Pannonia, on the road from Jovia to Aqunviva,

south of the river Dravus. (/<. Ilierot. p. 561;

Geogr. liav. iv. 19; Tab. Putting.) [I„ S.]

POPULO'NIUM or POPULO'NIA (noeAeinov:

Eth. Populoniensis: Papilloma), an ancient city of

Etruria, situated on the sea-coast, nearly opposite

the island of Ilva {Elba), and about 5 miles X of

the modem city of Piombino. It stood on a lofty

hill, rUing abruptly from the sea, and forming the

northern extremity of the detached and almost in­

sulated promontory, the southern end of which is

occupied by the modern town of Piombino. This

promontory (the UowKiiviov txpov of Ptolemy) is

separated from the hills in the interior by a strip

of flat marshy ground, about 5 miles in width,

which in ancient times was occupied in great

measure by lagnnes or paduli; so that its position

is nearly analogous to that of the still more striking

Monte Argenturo. The Maritime Itinerary places

it 30 miles S. of the Vada Volatenana, which is

just about the truth (/tin. Mat-it. p. 501). Strabo

says it was the only one of the ancient Etruscan

cities which was situated on the sea-shore (Strab.

v. p. 223), and the remark is repeated by Pliny;

thus apparently excluding Cosa as well as Pyrgi

and other smaller places from that designation. It

is probable at least that Populonium was the most

considerable of the maritime cities of Etruria; but

there are no grounds for regarding it as one of the

Twelve Cities of the League, or as ever rivalling in

importance the great cities of the interior. Virgil

indeed represents it as one of the Etruscan cities

which sent forces to the assistance of Aeneas (^en.

x. 1 72), a statement that seems to prove his belief

in its antiquity; but other accounts represented it

as a colony of Volaterrae, and therefore of com­

paratively recent date. Servius tells us that it was

first founded by the Corsicans, from whom it was

afterwards wrested by the Volaterrans; and distinctly

represents it as of later date than the twelve chief

cities of Etraria. (Serv. ad Am. I. c.) It pro-

bahly derived its chief prosperity from its connection

with the neightwuring ialand of Ilva, the iron pro­

duced in the latter being all conveyed to Populonium

! to be smelted, and thence exported to other regions.

(Strab. /. c; Pseud. Arist. dt Mirab. 95; Varr. up

\ Sen. ad Aeu. x. Hi.) Hence, in B. c. 205, when

Scipio was fitting out his fleet for Africa, and the

Etruscan cities came forward with their veluntarv

contributions, the Populonians unilertcs>k to supply

him with iron. (Liv. xxviii. 45.) This is the first

occasion on which the name is mentioned in history;

a few vears later (b. c. 202) we are told that tho

consul'Claudius Nero, on his voyage to Sardinia,

took refuge with his fleet in the port of Populonium

from the violence of a storm. (Id. xxx. 39). No-

further meDtion of it occurs in history; but we learn

from Strabo that it sustained a siege from the forces

of Sulla at the name lime with Volaterrae. and it

apnears to have never recovered the blow it theu

received • for in the time of that geographer the city

itself was almost desolate, only the temples and a

The port, however, was still

• u u 2

