132 L ATI DM LATUM.

have any national existence, the name of Latium is

still not unfrequently u»ed, as equivalent to "nomen

Latinum," to designate the whole body of those who

presestsed the rights of Latins, and were therefore

•till called Latiui, though no longer in a national

sense.

The suggestion of a modern writer (Abeken,

Mittel Italian, p. 42) that Latium is derived from

"latos,* broad, and means the broad plain or ex­

panse of the Campagna (like Campania from

"Campos "), appears to be untenable, on account of

the difference in the quantity of the tirst syllable,

notwithstanding the analogy of wAari*, which has

the tirst syllable short.

II. K.XTENT AND BoUNDAUIKS.

The name of Latium was applied at different periods

in a very different extent and signification. Originally,

aaaln5adypointcdout.it meant the land of the Latiui;

and as long as that jieople retained their independent

national existence, the name of Latium could only

be applied to the territory possessed by them, exclu­

sive of that of the Hernici, Aequians, Volscians, &c,

who were at that peri.nl indejindent and often Juts-

tile nations. It was not till these separate nationali­

ties had been merged into the common condition of

subjects and citizens of Kome that the name of

Latium came to be extended to all the territory

which they had previously occupied; and wis thus

applied, tirst in common parlance, and afterwards in

official usage, to the whole region from the borders of

Etruria to those of Campania, or from tlie Tiber to

the Liris. Hence we must carefully distinguish be­

tween Latium in the original sense of the name, in

which alone, it occurs throughout the early Koman

history, and Latium in this later or geographical

sense; and it will be necessary here to treat of the

two quite separately. The period at which the

latter usage of the name came into vogue we have

no means of determining: we know only that it was

fully established before the time of Augustas, and is

recognised bv all the geographers. (Strab. v. pp. 228,

231; Plin.i'ii. 5. s. 9; Ptol. iii. 1. §§ 5, 6.) Pliny

designates the original Latium, or Latium properly

so called, as Latium Antiquum, to which lie opposes

the newly added portions, as Latium Adject urn. It

may, however, be doubted whether these appellations

were cut adopted in common use,though convenient

as geographical distinctions.

1. Latum Antiquum, or Latium in the original

and historical sense, was a country of small extent,

bounded by the Tiber on the N-, by the Apennines

on the E., and by the Tyrrhenian sea on the YY.;

while on the S. its limits were not defined by any

natural boundaries, and appear to have fluctuated

considerably at different periods. Pliny defines it as

extending from the mouth of the Tiber to the Cir-

ceian promontory, a statement ccntirmed by Strabo

(l'lin. iii. 5. a. 9; Strab. v. p. 231); and we have

other authority also fir tho fact that at an early

period all the tract of marshy plain, known as the

Pontine Marshes or " Pomptinus Agcr,* extending

from Vehtrae and Antium to Circeii, was inhabited

by Lattiitf.and regarded as a part of Latium. (Cato,

ap. Fritcian. v. p. 668.) Even of the adjoining moun­

tain tract, subsequently occupied by the Volscians, a

part at least must have been originally Latin, for

Cora, Norba, and Setia were all of them Latin cities

(Dionys-v, 61),—though, at a somewhat later period,

not only had these towns, is well as the plain be-

iteaih, fallen into Uie hands of tlie Volscians, but

that people had made themselves masters of Antium

and Vehtrae, which are in consequence repeatedly

called Volscian cities. The manner in which the

early Roman history has been distorted by poetical

legends and the exaggerations of national vanity

renders it very difficult to trace the coarse of these

changes, and the alterations in the frontiers conse­

quent upon the alternate progress of the WUciai.

and the Koman arms. But there seems no reaxwi

to doubt the fact^that such changes repeatedly took

place, and that we may thus explain the apjareat

inconsistency of ancient historians in calling the

same places at one time Volscian, at another Latin,

cities. We may also clearly discern two different

periods, during the first of which the Volscian ina

were gradually gaining upon those of the Latins, and

extending their dominion over cities of Latin oripn;

while, in the second, the Volscians wen in their turn

giving way before the preponderating power of Rom-.

The Gaulish invasion (b.c. 390) may be taken, ap­

proximately at least, as the turning point between

the two periods.

The case appears to have been Bomewhat sixmTcr,

though to a less degree, on the r.ortbero frontier,

where the Latins ail joined the Sabines, Here, aba,

we find the same place** at different times, and by

different authors, termed sometimes Latin and son.e-

tiines Sabine, cities; and though in some of tbe^e

cases the discrepancy may have arisen from mere in­

advertence or error, it is probable tliat in some in­

stances both statements are equally correct, but

refer to different periods. The circumstance that

the Anio was fixed by Augustus as the boundary of

the First Region seems to have soon led to the r.oti «

that it was the northern limit of Latium alx>; and

hence all the towns beyond it were regarded as

Sabine, though several of them were, according to

the general tradition of earlier time*;,originally La*; i

cities. Such was the confusion resulting from tia»

cause that Piny in one passage enumerates Nocnetv-

tum, Fidcnae, and even Tihur among the ShLc .«

towns, while he elsewhere mentions the two f<»rrr*r

as Latin cities,— and the Latin origin of Tibnr is too

well established to admit of a doubt. (Piin. in. i.

s. 9, 12. s. 17.)

In the absence of natural boundaries it is only by

means of the names of the towns that we cam trace

the extent of Latium; and here fortunately the lists

that have been transmitted to us by LHonysius ai.d

Pliny, as well as those of the colonies of Alba, afford

as material assistance. The Utter, indeed, cam**

be regarded as of historical value, bat they were un­

questionably meant to represent the fact, with which

their authors were probably well acquainted, that

the places there enumerated were properly Lax.it

cities, and not of Sabine or Volscian origin. Taairg

these authorities fur our guides, we may trace tfaa

limits of ancient Latium as follows:—1. From the

month of the Tiber to the confluence of the Anix,

the former river constituted the boundary betw««u

Latium and Etruria. The Romans, indeed, from an

early period, extended their territory bryond ii*

Tiber, and held the Janiculum and Campos Vi t-

canus on its right bank, as well an the to-raiW

Septera Pagi, which they wrested from the Vsiexrta*.

and it is probable that the Etruscans, on the otawr

hand, had at one period extended their power over a

jurt of the district on tlie left hank of the 7jT»-

but that river nevertheless constituted the general]*

recognised geographical limit between Etruria a=*i

Lattum. S. North of the Anio the Latin tomuv

