MANDTJBII. 259 MAXBURIA.

tht inside. The Galli failed to force the lined both

on lb* inside and the outside. But the attack on

the camp of Reginus and RebUus was desperate, and

Labitnus was sent to support them. Neither ram­

parts nor ditches could stop the fierce assault of the

enemy. Labieous summoned to his aid the soldiers

from the nearest posts, and sent to tell Caesar what

be thought ought to be done. His design was to

sally out upon the enemy, as Caesar had ordered

aim to do, if he could not drive tLem off from the

lines.

The place where the decisive struggle took place

is easily seen from the Arx Ale.-dae; and it is accu­

rately described by Caesar {B.C. 83, 85). This is the

bill (E.) which slopes down to the plain of the Loze.

T>ie upper part of the Blope opposite to the Arx

Alfcuw is gentle, or ** leniter declivis" (c. 83); but

tbe descent from the gentle slope to the plain of the

L&e, in which the railway runs, is in some parts

v«t steep. Caesar could draw his lines in such a

wit as to bring them along the gentle slope, and

tttoiprir* the steep and lower slope within them.

Bit there would still be a small slope downwards

from the upper part of the hill to the Roman lines;

aikl thi* is this gentle slope downward which he de­

scribes in c. 85. as giving a great advantage to the

Gallic assailants under Vergasillaunus (" Exiguum

loci ad dectivitatem fastigium magnum habet mo­

ment am *).

Tbe mountain behind which Vergasillaunus hid

fcimtelf after the night's march is the part of the

mountain west of Crestigny. The camp of Reginus

aoJ hVbilo* being on the south face turned to Alesia,

they cmld tee nothing of* Vergasillaunus and his

tten till they came over the hill top to attack the

ii'jts. Vercingetorix, from the Arx Alesiae (c. 84),

t>Miid see the attack on Regiuus' camp, and all that

■m pang on in the plain. He could see every­

thing. Caesar's position during the attack of Verga-

wiliomn WR* one (idoueus locus) which gave him a

vi?w of the fight, lie caw the plain, the *' superiores

nnnitiunes," or tlie lines on the mountain north-west

« Ale>U, the Arx Ah'siae, and the ground beneath.

lie *tood therefore on the hill south of Alesia, and ut

uw western end of it.

Caesar, hearing from Labtenus how desperate was

tbe attack on the upper lines, sent part of lus

OTjJry runnd the exterior lines to attack Verga-

■liaanus in the rear. The cavalry went round by

tfc» east end of Alesia. They could nut go

iwad the wort end, for they would have cros>ed the

po:o miuide of the lines, and the plain was occupied

I* tbe OiUli. Nor could they have got up the hdl

cMtiar Aide without some trouble; and they would

** bar* come on the rear of the enemy. It is cer­  
tain that they went by the east end, and upon the

■■sfhn round Alesia, which would take a much

■•Bw tiine U'au Caesar's rapid narrative would lead

■" tofappoM, nT we did not know the ground.

"fteo Caesar sent the cavalry round Alesia, he

** to tbe aid of Labienus with four cohorts and  
•*»tta»alry. The men from the higher ground

ttuUarc him as he came along the lower ground

(«*. 87, eft). He came from the hill on the south of

**wa,bw»een his lines along the plain, with the Arx  
***ai«B b'u rieht, from which t: e men in the town  
■w kanuz d«wn on the furious battle. The

"■^ckak of the proconsul told his men and the

••aaiwho was coming, lie was received witli a

***& nxm both sides, and the nhout was answered  
fr*«tae ciiuunvallation and all the lines. The

Roman soldier throws his pila aside ; and the sword

begins its work. All at once Caesar's cavalry ap­

pears in the rear of Vergasillaunus: ** other cohorts

approach; the enemy turn their backs; the cavalry

meet the fugitives; there is a great slaughter; "and

the victory is won. The Galli who were on the

outside of the fortifications desert their camp, and

the next day Vercingetorix surrenders Ale.nia. The

fight of Alesia was the last great effort .of the united

Galli against Caesar. They never recovered from

this defeat ; and from this time the subjugation of

Gallia, though not yet quite completed, was near

and certain.

Alesia was a town during the Roman occupation

of Gallia; but the plateau has long since been de­

serted, and there is not a trace of building upon it.

Many medals and other antiquities have been found

by grubbing on the plateau. A vigneron of AlUe

possesses many of these rare things, which he has

found; a fine gold medal of Nero, some excellent

bronze medals of Trajan and Faustina, and the well-

known medal of Nemausus (Shuts), called the " pied

de biche." lie has also a steelyard, keys, and a

variety of other tilings.

The plan of Cassini is tolerably correct; correct

enough to make the text of Caesar intelligible.[G.L.]

MANDUESSEDUM, a Roman station in Britain

{It. Ant. p. 470), the site of which is supposed to be

occupied bv HI ancestor in Warwicksltire. fC. R S.]

MANDU'RIA (May8v>«w,Steph. li.: Eth. Mof-

bvpivos: Manduria), an ancient city of Calabria, iu

the territory of the Valentines, situated at the dis­

tance of 24 miles E. of Tarentum. Its name has

obtained some celebrity from its being the scene of

the death of Archidamus, king of Sparta, the son of

Age?.il.ius, who had been invited to Italy by the

Tarentines, to assist them against their neighbours

the Messapians and Lucaniaus; but was defeated

and slain in a battle under the walls of Maud una,

which was fought on the same day with the more

celebrated battle of Chaeronca, 3rd Aug., u. c. 338.

(Ir'lut. Ages. 3, who writes the name Mavboviov;

Theopomp. ap. A then. xii. p. 536; Diod. xvi. 63,88;

Pans. iii. 10. § 5.) This is the first notice we find

of the name of Manduria: it would appear to have

been a Mcssapian (or rather perhaps a Suleiitinc)

city, and apparently a place of considerable imjjort-

anoe; but the only other mention of it that occurs

in history is in the Second Punic War, when it

revolted to the Carthaginians, but was taken by

assault by Fabius Maximus, just before he recovered

Tarentum, «. c. 2U9. (Liv. xxvii. 15.) We have

no account of its late on this occasion, but it would

seem certain that it was severely punished, and

either destroyed or at least reduced to a degraded

condition; for we find no mention of it as a muni­

cipal town under the Rjiuaus; and Pliny omits its

name in his list of towns in thi> part of Italy, though

he elsewhere (u. 103. s. 10G) incidentally notices it

as uoppiduui in Valentino." The name is again

found in the Tabula, which places it at the distance

of 20 M. P. from Tatenlum, an interval less than

the truth, the actual distance being 20 geog. miles,

or at least 24 Roman miles. (Tub. J'trut.)

The existing ruins are considerable, especially

those of the ancient walls, great part of the circuit

of which is still preserved: they are built of large

rectangular blocks, but composed of the soft and

porous stone of which the whole nei^hbourii.g

country consists; and iu their original stale appear

to have formed a double, circuit of walls, with a

b2

