233 MASADA. MASDOKAKL

collected the property into one heap, and destroyed

it all by fire, they cast lots for ten men, who should

act as executioners of the others, while they lay in

the embrace of their slaughtered families. Oue was

then selected by lot to slay the other nine sur­

vivors; and be at last, having set fire to the palace,

with a desperate effort drove his sword completely

through his own body, and so perished. The total

number, including women and children, was 960.

An old woman, with a female relative of Eleazarand

five children, who had contrived to conceal them­

selves in the reservoirs while the massacre was

being perpetrated, survived, and narrated these facta

to the astonished Komans when they entered the

fortress on the following morning and had ocular

demonstration of the frightful tragedy.

The scene of this catastrophe has been lately re­

covered, and the delineations of the artist and the

description of the traveller have proved in this, as

in ao many other instances, the injustice of the

charge of exaggeration and extravagance so often

preferred against the Jewish historian. Mr. Eli

Smith was the first in modern times to suggest the

identity of the modern Svbbeh with the Masada of

Josephus. He had only viewed it at a distance, from

the cliffs above Engeddi, in company with Dr. Ro­

binson {Biblical Researches, vol. hi. p. 242, n. 1);

but it was visited and fully explored, in 1842, by

Messrs. Woolcot and Tipping, from whose descrip­

tions the following notices are extracted. The first

view of it from the west strikingly illustrates the

accuracy of Strabo's description of its site. "Rocky

precipices of a rich reddish-brown colour sur­

rounded us; and before us. across a scorched and

de.sulate tract, were the cliff of Stbbeh, with its

ruins, the adjacent height with rugged defiles be­

tween, and the Dead Sea lying motionless in its bed

beneath. The aspect of the whole was that of

lonely and stern grandeur.11 So on quitting the

spot they found the ground "sprinkled with volcanic

stones." The base of the cliff is separated from

the water by a shoal or sand-bank; and the rock

projects beyond the mountain range, and is com­

pletely isolated by a valley, even on the west side,

where alone "the rock can now be climbed: the pass

on the east described by Josephus seems to have

been swept away. The language of that historian

res j tec ting the loftiness of the site, is not very ex­

travagant. It requirea firm nerves to stand over its

steepest sides aud look directly down. The depth

at these points cannot be less than 1000 feet

The whole area we estimated at three-quarters of a

mile in length from N. to S.t and a third of a mile

in breadth. On approaching the rock from the

west, the 'white promontory,' as Josephus appro­

priately calls it, is seen on this side near the northern

end. This is the point where the siege was pressed

and carried. Of ' the wall built round about the en­

tire top of the hill by King Herod,1 all the lower part

remains. Its colour ja of the same dark red as the

ruck, though it is said to have been 'composed of

white stone;' but on breaking the stone, it appeared

that it was naturally whitish, and had been burnt

brown by the sun.* The ground-plan of the store­

houses and barracks can still be traced in the found­

ations of the buildings on the summit, and the

cisterns excavated in the natural rock are of enor­

mous dimensions: one is mentioned as nearly 50 feet

deep, 100 long, and 45 broad; its wall still covered

with a white cement. The foundations uf a round

tower, 40 or 50 feet below the northern tuininit,

may have been connected with the palace, -and Uw

windows cut in the rock near by, which Mr. Woolcot

conjectures to have belonged to some large cistern,

now covered up, may pussibly have lighted the rock-

hewn gallery by which the palace communicated

with the fortress. From the summit of the rock

every part of the wmII of circumvallatiun could be

traced,—carried along the low ground, and, wherever

it met a precipice, commencing again on the h;»h

summit above, thus making the entire circuit of the

place. Connected with it, at intervals, were th*

walls of the Hoinan camps, opposite the M\V. *ni

SE. corners, the former being the spot where J-

sephus places that of the Roman general A third

may be traced on the level near the shore. Too

outline of the works, as seen from the height* above,

is as complete as if they had teen bat recently

abandoned. The lEoman wall is G feet broad bull:,

like the fortress walls and buildings above, with

rough stones laid loosely together, and the interstices

filled ill with small pieces of stone. The w&L u

half a mile or more distant from the rock, so aa to

be without range of the stones discharged by the

garrison. No water was to be found in the neigh­

bourhood but such as the recent rains had left in

the hollows of the rocks; confirming the remark of

Josephus, that water as well as food was brought

thither to the Roman army from a distance, lta

position is exactly opposite to the peninsula lint

runs into the Dead Sea from its eastern shore, to­

wards its southern extremity. (Bibltothtca •Sacra,

1843, pp. 62—67; Traill's Jostphus, voL ii. pp.

109—115: the plates are given in vol. i. p. l'Jti.

vol. ii. pp. 87, 238.) It must be admitted that Lhe

identification of Stbbeh with Maxula ia most com­

plete, and the vindication of the accuracy of the

Jewish historian, marvellous as his narrative ap}*"a\rs

without confirmation, so entire as to leave no duut«t

that lie was himself familiarly acquainted with thst

fortress. [G. W.l

MASAITICA (MaffoiTiJcn), a river the *• em­

bouchure" of which is placed by Arrian (PeripL

p. 18) on the S. coast of the Eaxine, 90 stadia from

the Nesia. Itennell (Comp. Gtog. voL ii. p. 3:25)

has identified it with the Kamuslar. [E. B. J.]

If AS AX I (Mao-orof), a people of Arabia Dexrra,

mentioned only by Ptolemy (v. 19. § 2), aittutted.

above the RhaabeoL (Forster, Gtog. of Arabia^

vol. i. pp. 284, 285.) [G. W.J

MASCAS (McuTKas, Xenoph. Anai. L 5. § 4j,

a small river of Mesopotamia, mentioned by X*-

nophon in the march of Cyrus the Younger through

that country. It flowed round a town which ho

calls Corsote, and was probably a tributary of Lls>

Euphrates. Forbiger imagines that it U the sauxst

as the Saocoras of Ptolemy (v. 18. § 3), whiih had

its rise in the neighbourhood of Nisi bis, [V.J

MASCIACUM, a place in Rhaetia, on the i\»s4

leading from Veldidena to ]'>>ns Aeni (/£ A*L p»

259), identified with Gmurul on the /'eoerawr, or

with J/otem, near Rattenbtrg. [L &.]

MASCLIANA or MASCLIANAE, a umn ia

Dacia, which the Peutinger Table fixes at 11 M. P.

from Gagana. The Geographer of Ravenna call* it

Marsclunis; its position must be sought for near

Karansebe*. [E B. J.J

MASDORA'NI (Mao&*paro\ or Mat>swr»), *

wild tribe who occupied the mountain range of

Masdoranus, between Parthiaand Ariana, exlei*din£

SW. towards the desert part of Cannania ie Ktr»

man. (Ptol. vi. 17. § 3.) [V.J

