PK0V1NCIA. 673 PROVINCIA.

/»«. laf the reontrj south of Lyon. The part of

O freradi sooth of Lyon is a valley between the

JUa .1 the fast and the Ceramet on the west,

•ixb btonn wider u we advance south. On the

« oietbt lower Alps and the Alpine valleys cover

tare put of the country. On the west, the Ce-

savj md Uif lower ranges connected with them

kin »nrr narrow tract between the Rhone and the

% :uj» till we come to the latitude of Avignon and

5ma The southern part of the Rhone valley

h"r. Mauilia and the Pyrenees contains a large

W of tm! country. The southern part of this

rntnUrr 0 m,,re Italian than Gallic in position,

fact, aai products. The Rhone, which cnts it

£j t» puts, has numerous branches which join it

« tin Alp*; but the mountain streams which

b» ill it from the Cerennet are few [RiiodanlsJ.

7» riren of the Provincia west of the Rhone

»:m lot Civeimrt and from the Pyrenees into

it Heilemoean. They are all comparatively small.

. t'joiu of Avienus is probably the Caulazon,

■ attcu conclude from the name ; the Ledus

dV Uz, which flows by Montpellier; the Arauris

ami) Sows past Agatbe (Agde); the Libria or

• be the Lirron [LibriaJ; the Obris or

W{'We); the Xarbo or Atax (Aude), which

»» .Virtue*; the Ruscino or Tetis {Tel), and

'Tmxu (TecA). which enters the Mediterranean

wnW north of Portus Veneris {Port Vtndre).

ta» thf Far and the Rhone there are very few

Ml far the form of the surface is such that

it al the drainage runs into the Rhone. There

"A-juceus (Argent), and a few insignificant

»a :cwem the Argenteus and the delta of the

*

^ ntrent western part of the Provincia com-

» portion of the basin of the Carxmiw,

^ vtf is on this river. The valley of the

Ikowu the Cerennet and the Pyrenees forms

»»»jf«arb from the Mediterranean to the waters

and to the Atlantic,— a circumstance

Ib/iiiUted the commerce between the Medi-

w*» sad the Atlantic, and made this a com-

■I w< at a very early period. [NAiino.]

hi out from the Pyrenacum Pnimontoriuin to

• i'r« miles south of Massilia forms a great

th> GaUicn* Sinus: it is generally flat, and

•» pins it is lined by marshes and lakes.

rl "f the coast contains the Delta of the

East of Hauilia the country is hilly and

T» Mt vi Matsilia is natumlly a poor place.

ft ■ the port of Telo Martins ('/'imhn), and

f*hw ports of little value. Mela's remark

• trif: - On the shure of the Provincia there

> p*'«" "ill some name?; but there are few

i there are few ports and all the coast

11» the Auster and the Africus." There

—uids along the eastern coast, the

Ptsoasia, Leron, and other rocky islets,

of the Provincia, according to Agrip-

**&nmt, are said to be 2*0 M. P. in

• •"i J48 M. P. in breadth. But we neither

P tbt measures were taken, nor whether the

** » Piiffv'i text (iii. 4) are correct How-  
fc an that this, like many other parts of the

**» xuvryed and measured under Agrippa's

p*th if the coast of Narbonensis is above

j^a The direct distance from Tonlotite to

•i sf Lbs Tor is near 300 miles; and from

of the Rhone and the Soone, the direct

distance to the sea measured along a meridian is

about 180 miles. But these measures give only an

imperfect idea of the area of the country, because

the outline is irregular. Strabo (iv. pp. 178,179) has

preserved a measurement which has followed a

Roman road from the Pyrenees to the Var. The

distance from the temple of Aphrodite at the Py­

renees to Narbo is 63 Roman miles; thence to

Nemausus 88; from Nemausus through Ugemum

and Tarasco to the warm springs called Sexliae

(Aquae Sextiae), which are near Massilia, 53;

and thence to Antipolis and to the Varus, 73;

the whole making 277 miles. Some reckon, he

says, from the Aphrodisium to the Varus 2600

stadia, and some add 200 more, for they do not

agree about the distance. Two thousand six

hundred stadia are 325 Roman miles. When Strabo

wrote, the distance along the road from Narbo to

the Var was not measured, or he did not know it.

The other great road which he describes is a road

through the Vocontii and the territory of Cottius:

"As far as Ugernum and Tarasco the road from Ne­

mausus is the same as the route just described; but

from Tarasco to the borders of the Vocontii over the

Orucntia and through Caballio (Cavaillon on the

Durance") is 63 miles; and again, from Caballio to

the other limit of the Vocontii toward the land of

Cottius to the village Epebrodunum (Embrodunum,

Entbrun) is 99 miles; then 99 more through the

village Grigantiutn (Briancon) and Scinconiagus

and the passage of the Alpes (the pass of Mont

Genivre') to "Ocelum [Ocklum], the limit of the

land of Cottius; the country from Scincomagus is

reckoned a part of Italy, and from there to Ocelum

is 27 miles." He says in another place (iv. p. 187)

that this road through the Vocontii is the shorter,

but though the other road along the Massiliotic coast

and the Ligurian territory is longer, the passes over

the hills into Italy are easier, for the mountains in

those parts sink lower.

These were the two great roads in the Provincia.

There was a road in the west from Narbo through

Carcaso to Tolusa. There was also a road from

Arelate (J rltt) at the bifurcation of the Rhone

northward on the east side of the Rhone, through

Avenio, Arausio, Valentia, and Vienna ( V'ienne), to

Lugdunum; this was one of Agrippa's roads(Strab. iv.

p. 208). There was no road on the opposite side of

the river, or no great road, the land on that side not

being well adapted for the construction of a road.

There were other roads over the Alps. There was a

ri>ad from Lugdunum and Vienna up the valley of the

Isara (hire) to the Alpis Graia (Little St. Bernard),

which in the time of Augustus was much used

(Strab. iv. p. 208); and there was the road from

Augusta Praetoria (Aosta) in Italy over the Great

St Bernard to Octodurus (Martigny) and Penni-

lucus, at the east end of the Lake of Geneva; and

thence into the country of the Helvetii.

Within the limits of Narbonensis there is every

variety of surface and climate, Alpine mountains

and Alpine valleys, sterile rocky tracts and fertile

plains, winter for nine months in the year and sum­

mer for as many months. Pliny says of it: "Agro-

rum cultu, virorum morumque dignatione, amplitu-

dine opum, nulli provinciarum postferenda breviter-

que Italia verius quam provincia.'' (Pliny, iii. 4.)

The climate is only mild in the south part and in

the lowlands. As we descend the Rhone a differ­

ence is felt. About Arausio (Orange) the olive

appears, a tree that marks a warm climate. "All

—

