THESSALIA. 11G9 THESSALIA.

'the *4dien to take the command. So greatly

m Alexander »trengthened in his power by tins

klon that all tbe Thessalian cities submittal to

m, ind the influence of Thebes in Thessaly wns fur

tone destroyed. Subsequently a second expedition

a tent into Tbessaly under the command of

ToiwYidas, who compelled the tyrant to release

i^Jis and Ismenias, but without restoring Thebes

•ht commanding position which she had formerly

UmTbewUy. (Diod. xv. 71—75; Plot Felnp.

—29; Cornel. Kep. Ptlop. 5; Paus. ix. 15. § 1.)

i» nrcttnued oppressions of Alexander of Pherae

men intolerable that the Thessalian cities once

it implied to Thebes for assistance. Accordingly

lie. .164 Pelopidas was again sent into Thessaly

fiw hetil of a Theban army. In the first engage -

st I'elopidas was slain, but Alexander was de­

led. (Diod. xt. 80, 81; Plut. Ptlop. 31, 32;

ml Nop. Ptlop. 5 ; respecting the different expe-

*m uf IM-ipiiLas into Tbessaly, as to which there  
iwrepancie* in the accounts, see Grote, Hut. of

mot, vol x. p. 361, note, p. 391, note.) The

:h of iM»pida«, however, proved almost fatal to

uairr. Burning to revenge bis loss, the The-

■ teat a powerful army into Thessaly, which

jrlloi him to renounce his supremacy in Thessaly,

.«:-Sne himself to Pherae, and to submit to all

fananda of Thebes. (Plut, Pelop. 35.)

ift#* the death of Epaminondas at the battle of

ithwa (b. c 36*2) the supremacy of Thebes in

■walv was weakened, and Alexander of Pherae

>*rml much of his power, which he continued to

tm with bis accustomed cruelty and ferocity

uis aaau*ination in b. c. 359 by his wife Thebe

Iwr brothers. One of there brothers, Tisiphonus,

Tm\n\ to tbe supreme power, under tbe direction

tirtw; but his reign lasted only a short time, and

ijjt Mlowed in the government by Lycophnm,

i*r brother. (Xen. IltlL vi. 4. § 37; Diod.

14: Pint. Ptlop. 35.) Meanwhile Philip, who

unaided tbe throne of Macedon in B.C. 3G9,

Urn steadily extending his dominions and his

'Ur; and the Aleuodae of Larissa now had re-

to him in preference to Thebes. Accordingly

>a marched into Tbessaly in n. c. 353. Lyco-

•i unable to resist him, invoked the aid of

.ujriiiu and tbe Phocians; and Philip, after a

f ttniggle was driven out of Thessaly. (Diodor.

vj.) In the following year Philip returned

■<&-aIy, and gained a signal victory over

uutiraa and Lycophron. Onomarchus was

■-\ the battle; and when Philip followed up

c!<tv by laying siege to Pherae, Lycophron

ndered tbe city to him, upon being allowed

are to PbocU with bis mercenaries. (Diodor.

37.) Thus ended the powerful dynasty of the

'i vf Pherae. Philip established a popular

umeot at Pherae (Diod. xvi. 38), and gave

=al independence to the Thecal tan cities. But

■ tame time he garrisoned Magnesia and the

4 i'agatae with his troops, and kept steadily in

tii© subjugation of the whole country. An

i< trade in b.c 344 to restore the dynasty of

:v rants at Pherae gave him an opportunity of

ing hie designs into effect. Not only did he

■t. Pherae with his own troops, but he revived

division of th« country into four tetrarchjes

and placed at the bead of each some

; t-bttU of the Alcuadae, who were entirely de-

to oil interests. The result of this arrange-

«u the entire subjection of Thessaly to Philip,

who drew from the country a considerable addition

to his revenues and to his military resources. (Har-

pocrat. s. v. 'VtTpapxla; Dein. Ohjnth. i. § 23; Strab.

ix. p. 440; Thirl wall. Hist, of Greece, vol. vi. pp.

12—14.) Upon the death of Philip the Thessaliana

were the first Grecian people who promised to sup­

port Alexander in obtaining the supremacy of Greece.

(Diod. xvii. 4.) After tbe death r,f Alexander the

Thessalians took an active part with the other Gre­

cian Mates in attempting to throw off the Macedonian

yoke, but by the victory of Antipatcr they were again

united to the Macedonian monarchy, to which they

remained subject till the defeat of Philip by the

Romans at the battle of Cynoscephalae, B.C. 197.

The Roman senate then declared Thessaly free (Liv.

xxxiii. 32); but from this time it was virtually

under the sovereignty of Rime. The government

was vested in the hands of the more wealthy person.'*,

who formed a kind of senate, which was accustomed

to meet at Larissa. (Liv. xxxiv. 52, xxxvi. 8, xlii.

38 )

When Macedonia was reduced to the form of a

Roman province, Thessaly was Incorporated with it.

(Strab. xvii. p. 840.) Under Alexander Severtis it

formed a separate province governed by a procurator

(Grnter, Inter, p. 474. 4); and in the later consti­

tution of the Empire after the time of Constantine,

it also appears as a separate province under the

administration of a praeses. {Sot. Dig. i. p. 7;

Booking, i. p. 151; Marquardt, in Becker's Rom.

Alterth. vol. iii. pL i. p. 117.)

In giving an enumeration of the Thessalian tribes

and cities, we will first describe the four tetrarchies

already mentioned, and then take the other divisions

of the country.

1. Hkhtmeotis or Histiaeotis ('Eoriaiarrn,

'IfTTiawTis), inhabited by the HestiaeoUe ('Eo-n-

atwrai), was the northern part of Thessaly, of which

the Peneius may be described in general as its

southern boundary. It occupied the passes of Olym­

pus, and extended westward as far as Pindus. (Plin.

iv. 1; Strab. ix. pp. 430,437, 438.) It was the seat

of the Perrhaebi (ru^cugui), a warlike and powerful

tribe, who possessed in historical times seveial towns

strongly situated upon tbe mountains. They are

mentioned by Homer (II. ii. 749) as taking part

in the Trojan War, and were regarded as genuine

Hellenes, being one of the Amphictyonic states

(Aeschin. de FaU. Leg. p. 122). The part of Hes-

tiaeotis inhabited by them was frequently called

Perrhaebia, but it never formed a separate Thessalian

province. The Perrhaebi are said at one time to

have extended south of the Peneius as far as the

lake Boebeis, but to hare been driven out of this dis­

trict by the mythical race of the Lapithae. (Strab.

ix. pp. 4'U*. 440.) It is probable that at an early

period the Perrhaebi occupied the whole of Hesthieoti*,

but were subsequently driven out of the plain and

confined to tbe mountains by the Thessalian con­

querors from Thesprotia. Strabo states that lies-

tiaeotis, was formerly, according to some authorities,

called Doris (ix. p. 437), and Herodotus relates that

the Dorians once dwelt in this district at the foot of

MU. Qssa and Olympus (t. 5G). It is said to have

derived the name of Hestiaeotis from the district of

this name in Eutxea, the inhabitants of which were

transplanted to Tbessaly by the Perrhaebi (Strab.

ix, p. 437); but this is an uncertified statement, pro­

bably founded alone upon simiUrity of name. Homer

mentions another ancient tribe in this part of Thessaly

called the Aethices, who arc placed by Strabo upuu

4 r

