74 1STRIAN0RUM PORTUS. ITALIA.

lemy also mentions three towns, which he places in

the interior of the country, and names Pucinum,

Piquentum {TliKov*tnov\ and Alvum or Alvon

('AAoGoi-). Of these, Piquentum may be probably

identified with Pingucnte, a considerable place in the

heart of the mountain district of the interior; and

Alvon with Albona (called Alvona in the Tabula),

which is, however, E. of the A run, and therefore not

strictly within the Roman province of Istria. In

like manner the Pucinuin of Ptolemy is evidently

the same place with the "castcllum, nobile vino,

Pucinum " of Pliny (vii. 18. s. 22), which the latter

place* in the territory of the Carni, between the

Timavus and Tergcste, and was perhaps the same

with the modern Duino. Ningum, a place men­

tioned in the Antonine Itinerary (p. 271) between

Tcrgeste and Parenlium, cannot be determined with

any certainty. The Tabula also gives two names in

the N\V. part of the peninsula, Quaeri and Silvo

(Silvum), both of which are wholly unknown. The

same authority marks three small islands off the

coast of Istria, to which it Rives the names of Sepo-

mana(?), Orsaria, and Pullaria: the last is men­

tioned also by Pliny (iii. 26. s. 30), and is probably

the rocky island, or rather group of islets, off the

harbour of Pola, now known as Li Brioni. The

other two cannot be identified, any more than the

Cissa of Pliny (/. c): the Absyrtides of the same

author are the larger islands in the Gulfo di Quar-

nero, which belong rather to Liburnia than to Istria.

[Absvkti dks.]

The extreme southern promontory of Istria, now

called J'unUi di Promontore, seems to have been

known in ancient times as the Pkomontoiui'm

PoLATICUM (falpwTTipiov n oAotikoV, Steph. R. CO.

Ild.Va). Immediately adjoining it is a deep bay or

harbour, now known as the Golfu di Medulino,

which must be the Portus Planaticus (probably a

corruption of Klanaticus) of the Tabula.

The Geographer of Ravenna, writing in the seventh

century, but from earlier authorities, mentions tlie

names of many towns in Istria unnoticed by earlier

geographers, but which may probably have grown up

under the Roman empire. Among these arc Hu-

mago, still called Umago, Neapolis (Cittii Xuova),

Ituvignio (Rorigno), and Piranon (Pirano), all of

them situated on the \V. coast, with good ports, and

which would naturally become places of some trade

during the flourishing period of Istria above alluded

to. (Anon. Ravenn. iv. 30, 31.) [E. H. B.]

ISTRIANORUM PORTL'S. [Isiacoulm

Portus.]

ISTRIA'NL'S ('I.Trpiardf, PtoL iii. 6. § 3), a

river of iii-' Tauric Chersonese, which has been iden­

tified with the A'uui; Tap. (Forbiger, vol. iii. pp.

1117,1121.) [K. B. J.]

ISTROTOLIS, ISTBIO'POMS, HISTRIOTO-

LIS ('IffrpowoAu, 'larpia toAii, or simply "\atpot:

Jttert), a town of Lower Muesia, at the southern

extremity of lake lUlmyria, on the coast of the

Kuxine. It was a colony of Miletus, and, at least in

Strain's time, a small town, (Strab. vii. p. 319;

Plin. iv. 18. 24: Mela. ii. 2; Eutrop. vi. 8; Herod,

ii. 33. Arrian, Perip. L'ui. p. 24 ; Geog. Rav. iv. 6 j

Lymph. 74; Pt..l. iii. In. § K; S-ymn. t'ragm. 22;

Stcpb. B.JL *.; Aram. Marc. xxii. 8; Hierocl. p. 637.)

But the frequent mention of the place shows that it

must have been a commercial town of some import­

ance; of its history, however, nothing is known.

N modern writers have identified it with AVii-

ttemn or Koitcmbjt, the ancient Coiutanliaoa,

which, however, was in all probability situated to

the south of Istropolis. [L. S.)

ISTBUS ("IffTpoi), a Cretan town which Arte-

miilorus also called Ibtrona. (Staph. B. s. e.) Tl*

latter form of the name is found in an inscription

(up. Chuhull. Antiq. Ariui. p. 110). The site ■

placed near Minoa: "Among the ruined edifices and

columns of this ancient city are two immense marble

blocks, half buried in the earth, and measuring 54

by 15 feet." (Cornelius, CVefej Sacra, vol. i. p. 11;

ap. Mus. Clam. Antiq. voL it p. 273; comp. Hock,

A'reta, vol. i. pp. 17, 421.) [E. B. J.j

COIN OF ISTIIIS.

ISTURGI (Andujar la Vieja), a city of His-

pania Baetica, in the neighbourhood of Ili.i i ii'.i.k

(Inscr. up. Florez, Kip. S. vol. viL p. 137.) The

Ii'Asri koi I ran Mi'ii.iu! of Pliny (iii. I. s. 3) is

probably the same place. (Ukert, vol. ii. pt. 1. pp.

380.381.) [PS-]

1SUBRIGANTUM. [Isuuium.]

ISU'RIUM, in Britain, first mentioned by Pto­

lemy (ii. 3. § 16) as a town of the Brigantea. It

then occurs in two of the Itineraries, the 1st and

2nd. In each, it lies between Cataractonium and

Eboracum (Catterick Bridge and York). Isubri-

gantum, in the 5th Itinerary, does the same.

In the time of the Saxons Isnrium hail already

taken the name of Eaid-burg (Old Tun), out ot

which has come the present name Aldborwgk, near

Btjraui/hbridge, with which it is undoubtedly identi­

fied.

Roman remains, both within and without the walls,

are abundant and considerable at Aldlturough; the

Stodhart (or Studforth), the Red Hill, and the

Borough Hill, being the chief localities. Tesaelated

pavements, the foundations of large and spacious

buildings, ornaments, implements, Samian ware, and

coins with the names of nearly all the emperors from

Vespasian to Constantine, have given to Isurium an

imjiortance equal to that of York, Cirencester, and

other towns of Roman importance. [R. G. I. j

lSl'S f lo-oi), a spot in Boeotia, near Anllx-dm,

with vestiges of a city, which some citfiiiiienta-

tors identified with tile Homeric Nisa. (Strab. n.

p. 405 ; Horn. II. ii. 508.) There was apparently

also a town Isus in Megaris; but the passage in

Strabo iu which the name occurs is corrupt. (Strab.

Lc.)

ITA'LIA ("ItoAio), wm the name given in an­

cient an well a* in modern times to the iMuulnr still

called Italy ; and was applied, from tJie lime \4 Aq-

gustus. both by Greek and Latin writer*, in alrnt»t

exactly tl..- same mom hs at the prest i.t day. It

was, however, at first merely a ge«£raphi<tU term;

the countries comprised under the name, though

strongly defined by natural limits, and common na­

tural features, being from the earlieM ages frutdnft

by different races, which were never politically

united, till they all fell tinder the nomas yoir, anil

were gradually blended, by the |«rvading iiUfloe..* ot

lC*jfiiMii institutions and the Latin language, into ont

common nationality.

