660 rOITLONH'M.

frequented, and a town had grown up around it at

the loot of the hill. (Strab. V. p. 233.) Its name

is Mill mentioned as an existing town by all the

other geographers, and Ptolemy especially not ires

the city as well as promontory of Populoniom (Mel.

ii. 4. § 9; Plin. iii. 5. s, 8; Ptol. iii. 1. § 4); hut

this is the last evidence of its existence; and before

the close of the Western Empire it had fallen into

complete decay. It is described by Rutilius at the

beginning of the fit'th century as entirely desolate,

nothing remaining bnt fragments of its massive

walls and the fallen ruins of other edifices. Gregory

the Great also describes it towards the close of the

sixth century as in a state of complete decay, though

retaining an episcopal see; but at a later period of

the middle ages a feudal castle was erected on the

site, which, with the few adjacent houses, still bears

the name of Popuhmin, and is a conspicuous object

from a distance. (Until, /tin. i. 401—414; Gregor.

Ep. ap. Cluver. Itrii. p. 514.)

The only Etruscan remains now existing at

Populoniuin (with the exception of a few tombs of

no interest) are those of the ancient walls, which

may be traced in fragments all round the brow of

the hill, throughout the entire circuit of the city.

This did not exceed a mile and a half in circum­

ference; it was of an irregular form, adapted to the

requirements of the ground. The walls are con­

structed of rude masses of stone, arranged, like those

of VolUrra, in horizontal layers, but with little

regularity; they are not, however, nearly so gigantic

in character as those of I'vltrrra, Fiesnlr, or Cor-

tona. Within the circuit of the walls are to lie seen

some vaulted chambers, six in a row (which have

been erroneously called an amphitheatre) a mosaic

pavement, and some reservoirs of water, all unques­

tionably ofBoman date. (Dennis's Etrur'm, vol. ii.

p. 236—238.)

On the highest point of the hill, in the days of

Rutilius, stood a lonely watch-tower, serving at the

same time as a b<aeon for ships. (RutiL /tin. i.

407.) It was from this point that, according to

Stniho, the view comprised not only Corsica (which

is visible from many points of the mainland), but

Sardinia also. (Strab. i. c\) But this last as­

sertion, though it has been repeated by many

writers, is certainly erroneous, as, even if the dis­

tance were not too great, the nearer mountains of

Elba would effectually conceal those of Sardinia

from the view. (Dennis, vol. ii. p. 230.)

We learn from the Tabula that there were hot

springs in the territory of Populonium, which had

given rise to a bathing-place called the AQUA!

PoruLuNiAE {Tab. Petti.'). These were evidently

the same now known as Lt Cah?>uu?% at the foot of

CampiffUa, about f» miles from Populonium, which

have been identified by some writers with the*' aquae

calidae ad Vetulonios" mentioned by Pliny (ii. 10.

s. 106); but there is no authority for placing V'etu-

lonia in this neighbourhood. (Dennis, vol. ii. p.

225.) [VlCTULONIA.]

Populonium was the only city of Etruria which

had a silver coinage of its own, of a very peculiar

style, the reverse being generally quits plain, with­

out type or legend, and not incuse or indented, as on

the earliest Greek coins. The ordinary type is a

Gorgon's head or mask, similar to that on many

Etruscan monuments. The copper coins give the

Etruscan name of the city "l'upluna" at full —

mTlATNA. It is not improbable (as suggested by

MUlingen) that the Populoniazu derived the art of

coinage from the Phocsi

certainly no ground for

Phocaean colony nt Pot

jVumwm. fie I'Anc. Itt

Vet. A need. pp. 10—ll

PORC1FERA (Pair

flowing | in to the sea a

The name is written Pi

the only one of the ge

but in a curious inscrij

variously written roR

[Genua.]

PORDOSELE'NE (

(T€\t7i/itt7s), the chief o

small islands lying bet

Asia. It contained a b

lax. p. 36, Hudson; St

s.v.). Strabo says (/.

avoid the dirty aUuak

called it Poroseleue (

form employed by Ptol

31. s. 38), and Aefiai

later time the name \

under which form the

see. (Hierocl. p. GSG;

PORINA& [Phb

POROSELTNE. |

PoRPHY'REoX (1

aVlOf, Uofxpuptwyirris

tioned by Scylax (p. 4

and Sidon, and niarke-

(where it is written Pa

as 8 Roman miles N. I

it a village upon the

lf>4, Bonn.) It is m<

from whose narrative

| neighbourhood of Plata

it seems to be correctl

FtbMf, where Pococke

he saw some broken ]

and ru'ms on each side

the side of the mount,

there are extensive ex(

belonging to an anciei

garded Haifa as thi

there is no authority

stood in the bay of Vli

of the Virgin at Por

v. 9, p. 328); and it

portanee to be made i

pelitan of Tyre. (Ro

vol. iii. p. 432.)

PO'RPHYRIS. [>

