162 LEPTIS MAGNA. LEPTIS MAGNA.

[See below, under Leptis Magna.] Its ruins,

though interesting, are of no great extent. (Shaw,

Travels^ p. 109; Barth, Wamlerungen, o*c. p.

161.) [p. a]

LKPTIS MAGNA (v Atwrts n<yd\y, A«im-

fidyva, Procop B. V. ii. 21 ; also A'srif, pimply;

aft. Neda-uAn; Leptimagnensis Civitas, Cod. Just.

i. 27. 2: Eth. and Adj. Acvrrrturor, Leptitanus:

/>Wa, large Rn.), the chief of tlie three cities

which formed the African Tripolis, in the district

between the Syrtes (Regio Syrtica, aft. Tripoli-

tana), on the N. coast of Africa; the other two

being Oea and Sabrata. I.*pti*was one of the most

ancient Phoenician colonies on this coast, having

been founded by the Sidoniana (Sail. Jug. 19.78);

and its site was one of the most favourable that can

be imagined for a city of the first class. It stood at

ono of those jiarta of the coast where the table-land

of the Great Desert falls off to the sea by asuece>sion

of mountain ridges, enclosing valleys which are thus

sheltered from those encroachments of sand that

cover the shore where no such protection exists,

while they lie open to the breezes of the Mediter­

ranean. The country, in fact, resembles, on a small

scale, the terraces of the Cyrenaic coast ; and its

preat beauty and fertility have excited the admira­

tion alike of ancient and modern writers. (Ainmian.

Mare, xxviii. 6 ; Delia Cella ; Rccchy; Barth, Ac.)

Each of these valleys is watered by its streamlet,

generally very insignificant and even intermittent,

but sometimes worthy of lteing styled a river, as in

the case of the Ciirrrs, and of the smaller stream,

further to the we>t, upon which Leptis stood. The

excellence of the site was much enhanced by the

shelter afforded by the promontory Hkkmakim

(AV«-a/-.l*A/m), W. of the city, to the roadstead in

its front. The ruins of Leptis are of vast extent,

of which a great portion is buried under the sand

which has drifted over them from the sea. From

what cm be traced, however, it is clear that the^c

remains contain the ruins of three different cities.

(1.) The original city, or Old Leptis, still exhibits

in its ruins the characteristics of an ancient Phoenician

settlement ; and, in its site, its sea-walls and quays,

its harbour, and its defences on the land side, it bears

a striking general resemblance to Carthage* It was

built on an elevated tongue of land, jutting out from

the W. bank ot the little river, the mouth of which

formed its port, having been artificially enlarged for

that purpose. The banks of the river, as well as the

seaward face of the promontory, are lined with walls

of massive masonry, serving as sea-walls as well as

quays, and containing some curious vaulted cham­

bers, which are supposed to have been docks for

ships which were kept (as at Carthage) for a last

resource, in case the citadel should be taken by an

enemy. These structures are of a harder stone than

the other buildings of the city; the latter being of

a light sandstone, which gave the place a glittering

whiteness to the voyager approaching it from the

sea. (Stadieum. Afar. Afag. p. 453, G., p. 297,

H.) On the land side the iathmus was defended

by three lines of massive stone walls, the position

of each being admirably adapted to the nature of

the ground; and, in a depression of the ground

between the outmost and middle line, there seems

to have been a canal, connecting the harbour in the

mouth of the river with the roadstead W. of the

city. Opposite to this tongue of land, on the E.

aide of the river, la a much lower, less projecting,

and more rounded promontory, which could not have

been left out of the system of external works, al­

though no part of the city was built upon it. Ac

cordingly we find here, besides the quays along ti#

river side, and vaults in them, which served for

warehouses, a remarkable building, which seems to

have been a fort Its superstructure is of brick,

and certainly not of Phoenician work; but it pro­

bably stood on foundations coeval with the city.

This is the only example of the use of brick in the

ruins of Leptis, with the exception of the waJb

which surmount the sea-defences already described.

From this eastern, as well as from the western point

of land, an artificial mole was built out, to give addi­

tional shelter to the port on either Bide; but, through

not permitting a free egress to the sand which is

washed up on that coast in vast quantities whs

every tide, these moles have been the chief cause of

the destruction, first of the port, and afterwards ef

the city. The former event bad already happened

at the date of the Stndiarmus, which describe* Lep­

tis as having no harbour (aKiptvoi). The harbour

still existed, however, at the time of the restoration

of the city by Septimius Severus, and tmall reaatli

could even ascend to some distance above the city,

as is proved by a quay of Roman work on the

\V. bank, at a spot where the river is still deep,

though its mouth is now lost in the sand-hills.

2. The Old City (inSAjf) thus described beraane

gradually, like the Byrsa of Carthage, the citadel

of a much more extensive New City (NeovoAji),

which grew up beyond its limits, on the W. bank of

the river, where its magnificent buildings now lie

hidden beneath the sand. This Nkw Crrr, a» in

the case of Carthage and several other Phoenician

cities of like growth, gave its name to the place,

which was hence called Neapoi.is, not, Iwnrever. as

at Carthage [comp. Carthago, Vol. I. p, 529. § i ],

to the disuse of the old name. Leptis, which was

never entirely lost, and which became the prevailing

name in the later times of the ancient world, and i«

the name which the ruins still retain {Ltbdo\

Under the early emperors both names are found

almost indifferently; but with a slight indication «f

the preference given to Nf.apous, and it seenw

probable that the name Leptis, with the epithet

Afatjna to distinguish it wi>m Lbptis Parva, pre­

vailed at last for the sake of avoiding any cotrfu>*w

with Nbapous in Zenpitana. (Strab. xtTl p. 8S5,

NfdVoA.u, V koX A*ttiv koAovviv. Mela, however,

i. 7. § 5, has Leptis only, with the epithet atrra:

Pliny, r. 4. e. 4, misled, as usual, by the abundance

of his authorities, makes Leptis and Neapolis difiemrt

cities, and he dir>tingui>hes this from the other

Leptis as Ijtptis altera, qua* cognomitmhtr m**<r»*:

Ptolemy, iv. 3. § 13, has NedwoXir i, mal Ars-nt

j*#7aAn: I tin. Ant p. 63, and Tab. TVs*. Lerai

Magna Colonia;Scyl. pp. 111,118,113, Gronov. Nf«

nrfAtj; Stadiasm. p. 435, Aerm, vulg. ArVret,

the coins all have the name I.f.itis simply, with tW

addition, on some of them, of the epithet CoU«i*

Victrix Julia; but it is Tery uncertain to *h*-h

of the two cities of the name the?* coins belong;

Eckhel, vol. iv. pp. 130,131; Rasche, s.r.) We Wni

from .Sallust that the commercial intercourse of Lenta

with the native tribes had led to a sharing of the etm-

mdmtm,An<\ hence to an admixture of the language ef

the city with the Libyan dialects {Jug. 78). In ftvt,

Leptis, like the neighbouring Tripoli/, which, with

a vastly inferior site, has succeeded to its poaitm,

was the great emporium for the trade with the

Garamantes and Phsiania and the eastern part el

