10.93 TAXA1S. TANAGRA.

mi their return defeat*] the Tanagnteans and Bneo-

tians. (Time. iii. 91.) Dtcacarchus, who visited

Tanagra in the time of Cassander, says that the city

stands on a ragged and lofty height, and has a white

chalky appearance. The houses are Adorned with

handsome porticoes and encaustic paintings. The

surrounding country does not grow much corn, hut

produces the best wine in BoentJa* Dieaemrchosadda

that the inhabitants are wealthy but frugal, being for

the most part landholders, not manufacturers; and

he praises them for their justice, good faith, and hos­

pitality. (He Statu Grate, p. 1*2.) In the time of

Augustus, Tanagra and Tbespiae were the two most

prosperous cities in Bucntia. (Strah. ix. p. 403.)

Tanagra is called by Pliny (iv. 7. s. 12) a free

state; it is mentioned by Ptolemy (iii. 15. § 20);

and it continued to flourish in the sixth century.

(Hierocl. p. 645.) Its public buildings are described

at some length by Pausanias (ix. 2(). § 3, seq.).

The principal temple was that of Dionysus, which

contained a celebrated statue of Parian marble, by

CaJamis, and a remarkable Triton. Near it were

temples of Themis, Aphrodite and Apollo, and two of

Hermes, in one of which he was worshipped as

Criophorua, ami in the other as Promachus. Near

ihe latter was the theatre, and probably at no great

distance the gymnasium, which contained a picture

of Corinna, who was a native of Tanagra. There

was also a monument of this poetess in a conspicuous

part of the city. Pausanias remarks as a peculiarity

in Tanagra, that all their sacred buildings were

placed by themselves, apart from the houses of the

town (ix. 22. § 2.) He likewise notices (ix. 22.

§ 4) that Tanagra was famous for its breed of fight­

ing-cooks, a circumstance which is mentioned by

other writers. (Varr. de lie Rust. iii. 9. § 6; Hesych.

.*>*. r. KeAofe)0v£; Suitlae, j*. v. Tavaypaun oa«/cto-

piVifot.) Tanagra possessed a considerable territory;

ami Strabo (ix. p. 405) mentions four villages be­

longing to it, Kleon or Heleon, Harms, MycaJeanu,

and I'harae. (Pherae, Plin iv. 7. s. 12).

The ruins of Tanagra are situated at an unin­

habited spot, called (Irimadha or (Jrinnila. situated

3 miles south of the village of Skundturi The

►ita is a large bill nearly circular, rising from the

north hank of the Asnpus. The upper part of the

site is rocky and abrupt, looking down upon the town

beneath; and it was probably upon this upper height

that the sacred edifices stood apart from the other

buildings of the town. The walls of the city wliich

embraced a circuit of about two miles, may still be

traced, but they are a mere heap of ruins. About

100 yards below the height already described are the

remains of the theatre, hollowed out of the slope. On

the terrace be!<>w the theatre to the NK. are the

foundations of a public building, formed of marble of

a very dark colour with a green cast. The ground

is thickly strewn in every direction with remains of

<*arl lien ware, betokening the existence of a numerous

Imputation in foriiier times. (Leake. Jivrthwn

i .UN OF TAX AO It A.

Greece t vol. ii. p. 454, seq.; Horhswirta. ^

Attica, p. 14, seq.; coin p. K. 0. MuUeMfotana

p. 20.)

TA'XAIS (TdWf, Ptol. iii. 5. § 14.t. 9. \\ 1

&c), a famous river, which is the coon* 4 o

was universally assumed as the boaniarf lcw« J

Europe and Asia. (Strab. tu. 310, xl 4W. H

i. 3; SejL p. 30. Ac.) The older fitm 4

tiquity tliouglit that it rose front a Wrt sit(IV j

rod. iv. 57; Ephor. ap. Anon. Per. P. Em. -r

which is really the case, its source bang ia latsas]

Iran (hero, in the government of TtmU: »ta»tai

writers held that it had its Mmrca eitbfr a 1

Caucasus (Strah. xi. 493; Aniraian. xskt).*

the Khipaean mountains. (Mela, L 19; 1ji

iii. 272; Procop. B. G. iv. 6. *c.) TW as

these hypotheses was most generally letifMe;I

there was likewise a fourth whkh made it a am

of the Ister (Strab. I c). WMU Su*k*.»ssi

adduces the>e different opinions, he h

that its source was entirely unknown (

is represented as Sawing in so rapid a

it never froze. (Mela, i c.\ cf. S'Smat,

xxiii. 85.) It flows first in s SE- and

SW. direction; and after receiving the H;

Svrgis) as a tributary, empties itself into

Maeotis (Sea of Azof) by two months.

iv. 100.) These mouths, whieb an? at tat

northern point of the Pal as MaeotU, Scnhft

at the distance of KO stadia from one

310), whilst Artcinidorus (a p. Kostalh.

14) makes them only 7 stadia distant. At

however, the Dot* lias 13 mouths. (CUA

i. p. 423.) The etjfwoiogy of tlie name >

by Plutarch (de Flum 14) and Eostubn

but its true derivation is from ti*!

Don or Dun, signifying vater, which

names of other rivers, ss Ifcumbios,

(Forbiger, ffandb. ties Alt. Getqr. p. 3tf.a-

The Tanais is frequently alluded U# ay tat

poets. (Hor. OH. iii. 10. 1 ; Yirg. tf.it. SIX

Ex. Prntt. iv. 10, 55, Ac.) Clarke ff

pp. 33!), 448, note) would identify «

lkumetz, from the similarity of the ume,

thesis also accepted by Lindner (SrytMw*

but there ran scarcely be a> doubt that it

identified with the Ikm. [T.

TA'NAIS (TaWf, Ptol. iii. 5.§26,r

a town of Asiatic Sarmatia. lying on the

crn mouth and between both mouths U

the same name. It may also be described

at tho northernmost point of the Palms

not far from the sea. It was a feraruhior,

the Mile-dans, enjoying ao extensive

being the principal market of the

both of Europe and Asia, who here

and skins for the w ine, apparel, and <<ber

more civilised nations. (Strab, si. :■. 491)

habitants soon reduced a considerable pit

neighbouring coasts to subjection, ant wai

themselves subdued by the kings of tAt

(Id. vii. p. 310. xi. p. 495). An attentat

their independence only ended in the

their city by Polemon I. (Id. p.493),sSuh

time when Siraho wrote. Pliny (ri. 7. a. •)

of Tanais as no lunger existing in his tin;

appears to have be*n subsequently

//. cc; Steph. B. p. 633X though it

its firmer prosperity. Clarke (i. p 415)

cover no trace of it, nor even a probable arte

ruins are said to exist near the

