784 ROMA. ROMA.

Met ell us Dalmaticus (Cic. Scaur. 4f>, et ibi Ascon),

and afterwards rebuilt by Tiberius, and dedicated in

his and Drosuss name, a. D. 6. (Suet. 776.20;

Dion Cass. lv. 27.) Caligula connected it with his

palace by breaking through the back wall, and took

a foolish pleasure in exhibiting himself to be adored

between the statues of the twin deities. (Suet.

Cal 22; Dion Cass. lix. 28.) It was restored to

its former state by Claudius (Id. Ix. 6). We learn

from Dionvsins that the Roman knights, to the

number sometimes of 5000, in commemoration of

the legend respecting the foundation of the temple,

made an annual procession to it from the temple of

Mars, outside of the Porta Capena. On this occa­

sion, dressed in their state attire and crowned with

olive, they traversed the city and proceeded over the

13 I

COLUMNS OF THE TEMPLE OF CASTOR AND

POLLUX.

forum to the temple (vi. 13). Its DRfUmaW

was somewhat contaminated by the offices of artai

persons who trafficked in tUves of bad cauida\

who might be'found there in shoals. (** Xoaraawi

feram si mihi non reddiderit nomen ali^as a ha\

qui ad Cantoris negotiantnr. nequaoc mmup-

vendentesque, quorum Unerase pessimonun

tnrba referlae sunt," Senec. de H

Plaut. Cure. iv. 1. 20.) The three elepnt oai

near the forum, under the Palatine, art nwst|nl

remains of this temple. We hare leeniatat

ceding account that it stood close to the

well as to the temple of Vesta, a pojiMi

precisely agrees with that of the thrtt a

None of the other various appropriation! of la*

will bear examination. Poggio (de r«r.

p. 22) absurdly considered these colamss t»

mains of Caligula's bridge. By the

topographers they were regarded as

temple of Jupiter Stator; but it baa beam

this must have stood a good deal higher**

Velia. Nardini thought they were Tvmaffli

comitinm, and was followed by Nibby (fart

p. 60) and Burgess (Antiq. of Aon*, i. *•

We have shown that the count mm was Mil

side of the forum. Canina takes then ■

belonged to the Curia Julia (f'oro Rm. ]

p. 132), which, however, as will appear in as

place, could not have stood here. Baese

Forum de Rome, p. 58) identifies

temple of Minerva, which, as be

(p. 59), is a u denomination

velle" and indeed, though new. not trae.

from his confounding the Chakidicsaa

in the Munument'tm Ancyranum with 1

Minervae mentioned by the Sotkim i

Region. But we hare already ohaarrti

curia and Chalcidium, which adjoined it,

quite misplaced here. The Curiomam,

the same Region, mentions besides ta*

Minervae a Templum Castorum et

this does not appear in the v .via. Be

more correct in his previous adoption of ti

of Fea, that the columns belonged to u*

Castor. (Bulkuino dell InsL 1835; c£

in Class. Mm, iv. p. 19.)

The capture of the city by the

390, which, as we hare before said,

much injury that the Romans

thoughts of migrating to Veil, most of «

occasioned considerable damage in the i

the forum. The Curia Hostilia, bona

have escaped, since Liry represent* the

debating in it respecting this Terr ma£>

Such shops and private booses as had bean

were probably restored in the fashion im t

had previously existed. It was now tsssl

temple to Alt's LoQrEXs,or Loctttcs, ■

have before alluded, was erected on the

not far from the temple of Vests, (/*. fj

this period the forum must haw

any important alterations down to the

Porcius Cato, when basilica* £nt

erected. During this interval all teat

to adorn it with statues a: i

no building was erected upon it; far

ex voto temple to Concord, which

been made of bronze, erected «a the

the aedile C. Kluvius, b, c 303 (Id.

hardly come under that denotninatx

bably also during this period thai the

