SAMOS. SAMOS. 899

at the

other places; whence the names of

Tillages in the island, Metelinous,

and Vourlote* (Vaurla giving the

■ana to sane islands at the entrance of the bay of

nrrca). Samoa was much injured by the ravages

1 Moraaai. In Toornefort's time the largest part

tii» island was the property of ecclesiastics; and

- namber of convents and nunneries was con-  
irraUe. He reckoned the population to be 12,000;

• is is estimated at 50,000, nearly the whole

ls£ Christian. Samoa performed a distinguished

-n the War of Independence. The Turks often  
to effect a landing; the defences con-

by the Samiotes are still risible on the

aa; ead the Greek fleet watched no point more

Tfiily than this important island. On the ] 7th

Aonut, 1824, a curious repetition of the battle

Formidable preparations for

on the island were made by Tahir-Pacha,

20.000 land-troops encamped on the pro­

of Myotic. Canaris set fire to a frigate

-- Cap* Trogillium, and in the confusion which  
«il tha troops fled, and Tahir-Pacha sailed

rr. At this time the Logotbete Lycurgus was

ww of the island " in the true classical sense

.V word," as is observed by Ross, who describes

caetle built by Lycurgus on the ruins of a

ta*ral fort, adding that be was then (1841) re-

re, with the rank of Colonel at Athens, and that

aaa well remembered and much regretted in

as*. Tliis island was assigned to Turkey by the

ty which fixed the limits of modem Greece;

s> coatiaoed to make struggles for its indepen-

am. Since 1835 it has formed a separate Boy-

onder a Pbanariot Greek named Stephen

vuisa, woo resides in Constantinople with the

'*4 * Prince of Samoa," and sends a governor as

i^poty. Besides other rights, the island has a

Lraie near exhibiting the white Greek cross on a

'rrocEad, with a narrow red stripe to denote de­

face* on tha Porte, It does not appear, how-

; that this government of Greeks by a Greek

Soitan U conducive to contentment.

V» p<-e»es>t inhabitants of this fruitful island are

to be mora esteemed for their industry than'

They export silk, wool, wine, oil, and

If Use word Sammtt is derived from this

t. it ss probable that silk has been an object of

rsitislry for a considerable time. Pliny (xiii.

- tsirsuo* pomegranates among its fruits. At  
ir—vct ©Uy the beans of the carob-tree are

where a cheap spirit for the

is made from them. We might

tmr frt.cn the name of Mount Ainpelus, that the

•4 the island was celebrated in the ancient

•j bat sta«rh a conclusion would be in direct

r»t to the words of Strabo, who notices it

kable fact, that though the wine of the

island* and of the neighbouring parts

k- mainland was excellent, that of Samoa was

nr. lla grape*, however, under the name of

sal Til or iftaftriMits, are commended by

nasaa (xcrr. p. 653; see PolL Onomtut. vi. 11),

> « theV are one of the most valued parts of its

Btms saw these grapes (<7Ta<f>i5a) drying

r.-» <:cuurUtKa in the ran; and other authorities

l hghrf of the Malmsey or sweet muscato

i^nrtad in barge quantities from Samos. Its

.»» si ibnialant; bat it has a greater tendency

art into ems" fragments than that of Pen-

A stone found in the island is

said by Pliny (xxxvi. 40) to have been used for

polishing gold. He also mentions in several places

(/. e., also xxriii. 53, 77, xxxi. 46, xxxv. 19, A3)

the various medicinal properties of its earth. The

Samian earthenware was in high repute at Rome

(" Samia etiamnum in esculentis iaudantur," Plin.

xxxv. 46), and the name has been traditionally

given by modern writers to the "red lustrous pot­

tery * made by the Romans themselves for domestic

use. (See Marryatt's Pottery and Porcelain, London

1850, pp. 286, 290.) For the natural Flora and

Fauna of the island we must be content to refer to

Tou rue fort, who says, among other facts, that tigers

sometimes swim across to it from Mycale, which

Chandler describes as a mountain infested with wild

beasts. The woody flanks of Mount Kerkie still

supply materials for shipbuilding. It is said in

Athenaeus (/. c.) that the roses and fruits of Samos

came to perfection twice a year; and Strabo informs

us that its general fruitfulness was such as to give

rise to the proverb eW/xi koI opvtOuv 7aAo.

The archaeological interest of Samos is slmost en­

tirely concentrated in that plain on the S., which con­

tained the sanctuary of Hera at one extremity and the

ancient city on the other. This plain is terminated at

the SW. by a promontory, which from its white cliffs is

called aVrpo Ka6o by the Greeks, but which received

from the Genoese the name of Cape Colonna. in

consequence of the single column of the Heraeum

which remains standing in its immediate neighbour­

hood. Virgil tells us (Ant. i. 16), that Samos was

at least second in the affections of Juno; and her

temple and worship contributed much to the fame

and affluence of Samos for many centuries. Hero­

dotus says that the temple was the largest he had

seen. It was of the Ionic order; in form it was

decastyle dipteral, in dimensions 346 feet by 189.

(See Leake, Alia Minor, p. 348.) It was never

entirely finished. At least, the fluting of the

columns was left, like the foliage on parts of our

cathedrals, incomplete. The original architect was

Rhoecus, a Samian. The temple was burnt by the

Persians. After its restoration it was plundered by

pirates in the Mithridatic War, then by Verres, and

then by M. Antony. He took to Rome three statues

attributed to Myron: of these Augustus restored

the Athene and Heracles, and retained the Zeus to

decorate the Capitol. The image of the goddess was

made of wood, and was supposed to be the work of

Smilis, a contemporary of Daedalus. In Strabo's

time the temple, with its chapels, was a complete

picture gallery, and the hypaethral portion was full

of statues. (See Orig. c. Celt. 4.) In the time of

Tacitus, this sanctuary had the rights of asylum.

(Aim. iv. 14.) When Pausanina was there,the people

pointed out to him the shrub of Agnus Csstus,

under the shade of which, on the banks of the river

Imbrasus, it was believed that Hera was born,

(Pans. /. c.) Hence the river itself was called Par-

thenias, and the goddess Imbrasia. (Comp. Apull.

Rhod. i. 187, 'luSpaniys «oai "Hprjr.) The anchor-

ape in front of the sanctuary was called ipfiot

'Hpafnjf. (Athen. xv. p. 672.) The temple was

about 200 paces from the shore, according to Ross,

who found its whole basement covered with a mass

of small fragments of marble, among which are

portions of the red tiles with which the temple was

roofed. He discovered hardly anything of interest,

except an inscription with the word vcuntoiai.

The appearance of the watercour>es of the Im­

brasus shows that they are often swollen by rains,

3x2

