1300 VIA FLAMINIA. VIA FLAMINIA.

portion of Gallia Cispadana, which should naturally

have been included in Ae.milia. [Italia, p. 93.]

There is no doubt, from the description of Clau-

dian above cited, compared with the narrative in

Tacitus of the movements of the Vitellian and

Vespasian armies in a. i>. 69, that the main line of

the Via Flaminia continued the same throughout

the Roman Empire, but we find it civen in the Iti­

neraries with some deviations. The principal of

these was between Narnia and Forum Flaminii,

where the original road ran direct from Narnia to

Mevania, while a branch or loop made a circuit by

Interamna and Spoletium, which appears to have

come to be as much frequented as the main line, so

that in both the Antonine and Jerusalem Itineraries

this branch is given, instead of the direct line.

Another mute given in the Antonine Itinerary

(p. 311) follows the line of the old Flaminian Way

as far as Xuceria. but thence turns abruptly to

the right across the main ridge of the Apennines,

and descends the valley of the Potentia to Ancona.

Though given in the Itinerary under the name of

the Via Flaminia, it may well be doubted whether

this route was ever properly so called. Before enu­

merating the stations and distances along this cele­

brated line of road, as recorded in ttie different Iti­

neraries, it will be well to give a brief general de­

scription of its course, especially of that part of it

nearest to Koine.

The Via Flaminia issued from the gate of the same

name, the Porta Flaminia, which was situated nearly

uii the same site as the modern Porta ikl Popolo, but

a little farther from the Tiber, and was carried

thence in a direct line to the Pons Milvius (Ponte

Molk), where it crossed the Tiber. This celebrated

bridge, which so often figures in Koman history,

was reckoned to be 3 miles from Rome, though

only 2 from the Porta Flaminia, the distances being

as usual computed from the ancient gate, the Porta

IUtumena. After crossing the Tiber, the Flaminian

Way turned to the right, keeping pretty close to the

river, while the Via Cassia, which diverged from it

at this point, ascended the table-land and proceeded

nearly due N. The line of the Via Flaminia is

here distinctly marked by the remains of several

ancient sepulchres, with which its course was studded

on both sides, like the Via Appia and Latina, for

some miles from the gates of Koine. The number of

such sepulchres on the line of the Via Flaminia is

particularly noticed by Juvenal (i. 171). One of

these, which was discovered in the 17th century

at a place called Gratia Rossa, obtained much cele­

brity from being supposed to be that of the family

of Ovid, though in reality it belonged to a family of

the name of Nasonius, which could have no connec­

tion with the j>oet, whose cognomen only was Xaso.

Six miles from the Milvian Bridge (at a place

now called Prima Porta) was the station of Saxa

Kabra, or Ad Rubras as it is called hi the Itineraries,

which, from its proximity to Koine, and its position on

the great northern highway, is repeatedly mentioned

in history. [Saxa Rubra.] It was here that the

Via Tiberina parted from the Flaminia, and,

turning off to the right, followed closely the valley

of the river, while the main line of the more impor­

tant highway ascended the table-land, and held

nearly a straight course to the station of Rostrata

Villa, which is placed by the Antonine Itinerary 24

miles from Rome. The exact site of this cannot be

identified, but it must have been a little short of

Rignano. It is not mentioned in the Tabula or Je­

rusalem Itinerary, both of which, en th* tuLHtr,

give another station, Ad Victim tun, which, *s n

name imports, was situated 20 miles fr/n E^o*.

and, therefore, 11 from Ad Rubras. It mat tis*-

fore have been situated a little beyocd tb*

di Gvardia, but was evidently a mere Mt^si -

station for changing horses, and no ruins mark tb»

site. But the course of the Via FUmiria aa fe

traced with certainty across this table-liad to tfc

foot of Soracte, by portions of the ancient piv«^s

still existing, and ruined, tombs by the r«.i-Ji

The nest station set down in the Jerusalem InrfTL-r

and the Tabula is Aqua Viva, 12 miles bfyjed Ai

Vices!mum, and this is identified bey-cai » d^N

with the Osteria dclf Aeq*ta T'ira, whkb if

at the required distance (32 miles) from So

Thence the ancient road proceeded direct t* ibe

Tiber, leaving Cicita Castclltma (the aiicient Feee>-

nium) on the left, and crossed the Tiber aurJe»5««

Boryhetto, where the remains of the anevrn:!*-.:^

are still visible, and still known as the Pifc di A***>-

Thence it proceeded in * straight liz* to Ur-

culum, the ruins of which are siroaied be! **

modern town of OtricolL Ocriculura was It 11 I'-

from Aqua Viva, or 44 from Rome, acccrdi^* la ii*

detailed distances of the Jerusalem ltinerarr.

are exactly correct. The Antonine Itinerary

the distance in one place 43, in another 47 xik^

(Itin. Ant. pp. 125. 311; Itin, Hier. p. 613.

a detailed examination of this first portii* of '-a

Via Flaminia, see Westphal, Romuthe Kumpcc^t.

pp. 133—145; Nibby, Vie degli AiUvrhi, pa i7—

74.)

The remainder of the route must be more hr-z?

described. From Ocricalum it led direct to Sir^-i

(12 miles), where it crossed the Nar by the

bridge, the ruins of which are still the aintnc-*

of travellers, and.quitting altogether tbevaiier

Nar, crossed the hills nearly in a straight k&

N. to Mevania (Btvagna), paxsin<r by a star'soo A;

Martis (16 M. P.), and thence to Merania (16 XI P.*.

whence it proceeded to Forum FlainiEii. a:

foot of the Apennines. But the distances bet*

not been examined in detail, and most of to* lib­

raries (as already mentioned) Cive the cartar:-** x

loop line (nearly coinciding with the moders ~*-'<

by Interamna and Sp>Ietium to Forum Fur

The stations on this road were, according U

Itin. Ant.:—

Interamna (Term") - Tiii- «. r.

Spoletium (SpoUto) - xtuj.

Forum Flaminii - - aria,

but the Jerusalem Itinerary, which civw -

greater detail, makes the total distance ?cy«^

greater. The stations as there set down are .—

Interamna (Terni)

- T-i. JL T.

Tres Tabema« -

- iu.

Fanam Fucitivi

- 1

Spoletium {Spoletc') -

- T2.

Sacraria (Lc \'cne, at the son

of the Clitumnus) -

- ni

Treba (Trevi) -

. kii.

Fulginium (Foligno)

- T.

Forum Flaminii

The position of Forum Flaminii i* w»Jl unrated

at a place called S. Giovanni in foriJSaxma. wyft

its ruins are still visible. This is, howrrar. ^ •

more than 2 miles from Foliffno. bot m ocrreil*

placed by the Itineraries 12 miles fnao Xi--«a

(Xocera). There can be no doabt L3it tit

datiou of the town of Forum Fbuaiaii wascu:'.«io»­

