XAXTIIUS. 1.13.1 XIPHOXIUS PORTUS.

•hick U much too great. (Camp. Slfph. B. s. r.;

ItoL t. 3. § 5; Mela, i. 15; Polyb. xxvi. 7.) This

fitnooi city was twice destroyed, on each of which

iccaaioos iu inhabitants defended themselves with

mdaunted valour. The first catastrophe befell the

itv in the reign of Cjrus, when Harpagus besieged

t with a Persian army. On that occasion the Xan-

hians buried themselves, with all they possessed,

inder the ruins of their city. (Herod, i. 176.) After

Lis event the city must have been rebuilt; for

luring the Roman civil wars consequent upon the

nurder of Caesar, Xanthus was invested by the

timy of Brutus, as its inhabitants refused to open

beir gates to him. Brutus, after a desperate strug­

gle, took the city by assault. The Xanthians con-

inned the fight in the streets, and perished with

heir wives and children in the flames, rather than

nbrnit to the Romans. (Dion Cass, xlvii. 34;

Ippian, B. C. iv. 18, foil.) After this catastrophe,

lie city never recovered. The chief buildings at

iinthus were temples of Sarpedon (Appian, (. a),

od of the Lycian Apollo. (l>iod. v. 77.) At a

uUnce of GO stadia down the river and 10 stadia

rom its mouth, there was a sanctuary of Leto

a the bank of the Xanthus. (Strab. /. c.) The

ito of Xanthus and its magnificent ruins were

irtt discovered and described by Sir C. Fellows in

lis Excursion in Asia Minor, p. 225, foil. (comp.

lis Lycia. p. 164, foil.) These ruins stand near the

illage of Koonik, and consist of temples, tombs,

riumphal arches, walls, and a theatre. The site,

ays Sir Charles, is extremely romantic, upon

fautiful hills, some crowned with rocks, others

ising perpendicularly from the river. The city does

m appear to have been very large, but its remains

how that it was highly ornamented, particularly

he tombs. The architecture and sculptures ot' the

'Uce, of which many specimens are in an excellent

tale of preservation, and the inscriptions in a pecu-

tar alphabet, have opened up a page in the history

t Asia Minor previously qnite unknown. The en-

ravings in Fellows' works furnish a clear idea of

he high perfection which the arts must have at-

aioed at Xanthus. (See also Spratt and Forbes,

'rarels its Lycia, i. p. 5, and ii., which contains an

xcvllrnt plan of the Bite and remains of Xanthus;

'.. Braun, IHe Marmorwerkc von Xanihos in I^ykia,

Ihein. Mus. Neue Folpe, vol. iii. p. 481, folL)

A large collection of marbles, chiefly sepulchral,

iM-overed at Xanthus by Sir C. Fellows, and

rought to England in 1842 and 1843, has been

minted in the British Museum. Of these a full

ccount is given in the Supplement to the Penny

yclopaedin, vol. ii. p. 71.1, toll. [L. S.]

XANTHUS (HdViot), an important river in the

i. of Lycia, which is mentioned even in Homer

IL iu 877, T. 479), and which, according to Strabo

xir. p. 665), was anciently called Sirbes, that is in

'noeviician and Arabic "reddish yellow," so that

M Greek name Xanthus is only a translation of the

emitic Sirbes or Zirba. The Xanthus has its

nireea in Mount Taurus, on the frontiers between

vna and Pisidia, and flows as a navigable river in

SW. direction through an extensive plain (EaVOev

ttiop, Herod, i. 17e>J, having Mount Bragus on the

i. and Maaskytes on the E., towards the sea, into

hirh it discharges itself about 70 stadia S. of the

tv of Xanthus. and a little to the NW. of I'inara.

Hood. L e.; PtoL v. 3. § 2: Dion. Per. 848; Ov.

ttt. ix. 645; Mela, i. 15; Plin. v. 28.) Now the

uJtm or Essaudt. (Fellows, Lycia, pp. 123, 278.)

Respecting Xanthns as a name of the Trojan river

Scamander, see Scamaxdkr. [L. S-]

XANTHUS. [Buthrotux.]

XATHR1 (EdSpoi, Arrian, Anab. vi. 15), a tribe

of free Indians mentioned by Arrian as dwelling along

the banks of the Hydraotes (/ratvfft) in the Panjdb.

There can be little doubt that they derive their

name from the Indian caste of the Kshatriyas. [V.J

XEXAGORAE INSULAE (H«ko.7o>ou iojo-o<),

according to Pliny (v. 35), a group of eight small

islands off the coast of Lycia, which the St ad i asm us

(§ 218) states were situated 60 stadia to the east

of Patara. They are commonly identified with a group

of islands in the bay of Kalamaki. [L. S.J

XENUTA, a small place in the NE. part of

Sogdiana, noticed by Curtius (viii. 2. § 14) ; perhaps

the present Crtifjpa. L^-]

XEROGYl'SUS(Er)p*yi4or, AnnaComn. vii. 11,

p. 378, Bonn), a small river in the SE. of Thrace,

which falls into the Propomis, not far from Perin-

thus. In some maps it is called the Erginus, upon

the authority of Mela (ii. 2). [J. R.J

XERXE'NE (Evil**), Strab. xi. p. 528), a dis­

trict on the Euphrates, in the NW. part of Arme­

nia, more properly, however, belonging to Cappa-

docia. It is called Derxcne by Pliny (v. 24. s. 20),

and this perhaps is the more correct name. (Cf.

Ritter, Erdlc x. p. 769.) [T. H. D.]

XIME'NE (Si/irjrrf), a district in the most southern

part of Pontus, on the Halys, and near the frontiers

of Cappadocia, was celebrated for its salt-works.

(Strab. xii. p. 561.) [L. S.J

XION (Bwr, Scylax, p. 53), a river on the W.

coast of Libra Interior. [T. H. D.]

Xll'HONUJS PORTUS (Ei«W«ioi Ai^v, Scyl.

p. 4: Bay of Augusta'), a spacious harbour on

the E. coast of Sicily, between Catana and Syra­

cuse. It is remarkablo that this, though one of the

largest and most important natural harbours on the

coasts of Sicily, is rarely mentioned by ancient au­

thors. Scylax, indeed, is the only writer who has

preserved to us its name as that of a port. Strabo

speaks of the Xiphonian Promontory (to ttji Eupw-

Woi axpwTT/pior, vi. p. 267). by which he evidently

means the projecting headland near its entrance, now

called the Capo di Santa Croee. Diodorus also

mentions that the Carthaginian fleet, in n. r. 263

touched at Xiphonia on its way to Syracuse (fir

t^, Ei$t»'Iw, xxiii. 4. p. 502). None of these

authors allude to the existence of a town of this

name, and it is probably a mistake of Stephanus of

Byzantium, who speaks of Xiphonia as a city

(». v.). The harbour or bay of Augusta is a spa­

cious gulf, considerably larger than the Great Har­

bour of Syracuse, and extending from the Capo di

Stmta Croce to the low peninsula or promontory of

Magniii (the ancient Thapsus). But it is probable

that the port designated by Scylax was a much

smaller one, close to the modern city of A w/usta,

which occupies a low peninsular point or tongue of

land that projects from near the N. extremity of

the bay, and strongly resembles the pxition of the

island of Ortypia, at Syracuse, except that it is not

quite separated from the mainland. It is very sin­

gular that so remarkable and advantageous a situa­

tion should not have been taken advantage of by the

Greek coloaists in Sicily ; but we have no trace of

any ancient town on the spot, unless it were the site

of the ancient Megara. [Mkoara.J The modern

town of Augusta, or Agosta, was founded in the 13th

eenturyby Frederic 11. [K. H.B.J

