$44 ROMA. ROMA

part of tlie building. (Dion Cass. L 10.) Au­

gustus rebuilt the Pulrirtar, or place on which the

images of the gods were Uud, and erected the first

obelisk between the mttae. (.t/orc. Ancyr.\ Suet.

Awj. 45; Plin. xxxvi. 14. s. 5) The side to­

wards the Aventinc was again burnt in the reign

of Tiberius. (Tac Ann. vi. 4a.) Claudius much

improved the appearance of the circus by substi­

tuting marble carceres for those of tufo, and metae

of gilt bronze for the previous ones of wood. He

nlso appropriated certain seats to the senators.

(Suet. Cloud. 21.) We have seen that the fire of

Nero broke out iu the circus, whence it is natural

to conclude that it must have been completely de­

stroyed. Vet it must have been soon restored, since

Nero caused his ridiculous triumphal procession to

pass through it, and hung his triumphal wreaths

round the obelisk of Augustus. (Dion Cass, Ixiii.

21.) The effects of another tire under Domitian

were repaired with the stone from his iMtimucIiia,

and it was now, perhaps, that 12 carceres were first

erected. (Suet. Dom. 5, 7.) We read of another

restoration on a still more magnificent scale by

Trajan. (Dion Cass, lviii. 7.) During the cele­

bration of the Ludi Apollinares in the rsign of Anto­

ninus Pius, some of the rows of scats fell in and

killed a large number of persons. (Capitol. Anton.

P. 9; Catal. Imp. Yimn. ii. p. 244.) We know

but little more of the history of the Circus Maximus.

Constantino the Great appears to have made some

improvements (Aur. Vict. Cats. 40. § 27). and we

hear 'if the games being celebrated there as late as

the Gth century. (Cassiod. Var. iii. 51.) The

circus was used for other games besides the chariot

races, as lie Lndiu Trojae, Certamen Ct/mnicum.

Vtuafio, Lndi ApoWnares^ Ac. The number of

persons it was capable of accommodating is vari­

ously stated. Pliny (xxxvi. 24. s. 1) states it at

260,000. One codex of the Notitia mentions

485,000, another 385,000 ; the latter number is

probably the more correct. (Preller, Rtgionen, p.

191.) The circus seems to have been enlarged

after the time of Pliny, in the reign of Trajan.

The &KCUS FlamXNIUS was founded in n. c.

320 by the censor of that name. (Liv. Epit. ix.;

Cass. Chron. p. 178.)' Wc have hut few notices

respecting this circus, which lay under the Capito-

line, with its carceres towards the hill, and its cir­

cular end towards the river. The LntHPlebeU, and

those called Taurii, were celebrated here (Val. .Max.

i. 7. § 4; Vurr. L.L. v. § 154), and Augustus af­

forded in it the spectacle of a crocodile chase.

(Dion Cass. lv. l(j.) It also served for meetings of

the people, which had previously been held in the

Praia Flaminia. (Liv. xxvii. 21; Cic. cul Att.

i. 14.) We find no mention of the Circus Flaminhll

after the first century of our era; and in the early

part of the 9th century it had been so completely

forgotten that the Anonymous of Kinsiedlen mistook

the j'iazza Navona for it. Vet remains of it are

said to have existed till the 16th century, at the

church of 5. Caterma <l? Funari and the Palnzzo

Mattel (And. Fulvio, Ant Urb. lib. iv. p. 2C4;

Lucio Fanno, Ant. 0% Roma, iv. 23. p. 138.)

What is sometimes called by modern topographers

the ClRCUS AGON A LIS, occupied, as we have said,

the site of the Piazza Xarona. But the Ago-

lurfia were certainly not celebrated with Circensian

games, and there are good reasons for doubting

whether this was a circus at all. Its form, how­

ever, shows that it was a place of the same kind,

and hence Beckers conjecture s«m5 iu

bable (Handh. p. 670), that it was the Stai

founded by Domitian. The Grecian foot-mei

been introduced at Rime long before tht

of Domitian. Both Cae*ar and Aurastas

built temporary stadia in the Campa*

(Suet. Cacs. 39; Dion Cass, liii. 1). tad

seems to have constructed a more prnnaaefil

(Suet. Dam. 5; Ca&siod. Ckron. t ii. p. 197.)

are not indeed told that it was in the 0

Martins, but this is the most probable pbetffi

and the Notitia after mentioning the three

and the Odeum in the 9th Region names tht:

It is also mentioned in conjunction with the

by Ammianus Marcellinus (xvi. 10. § 14).

discriminated from thecirci by Lampridrat

de circo, de theatro. de stadio—meretriea

(Heli'tfj. 26.) In the middle ages it Mews

been called "Circus Alexandrines." an a

doubtless derived from the neigbbourin*

of Alexander Scvems. By the Anonymn* E

sis it was confounded, as we have said, with

C1IS FlaminiiLS.

Putting this on one side, thereiore,

circus, properly so called, founded at

be that which Caligula built in the

mother Agrippina in the Vatican. (

40, xxxvi. 11; Suet. Claud. 11.) Fnw

place sub>e<|Uemly obtained the r.ar^ <: Cufl(

(Dion Cass. lix. 14), by which we find it a

in the Xotitia. {R?g. xiv.) This circaa

used by Nero, whence it commonly

name of Cmcrs Xekonis. (Plin. Lc;

22; Tac. Ann. xiv. 14.) In the middle

was called Palatium Keronis. Some writers

another circus in this neighbourhood, whid

(Irulic. p. 590) calls Circvs Hapkxasi

the back of the mausoleum of that esptsfl

this seems hardly probable. (Cf. Urlxba, a

Mu». vol. iii. p. 202 ) The chief pass*?**

this assumption is founded is Procriplus, *e

Colh. ii. 1 (Preller, Rtgionen. p. 2 12).

A fourth circus was that of MAXEVmQaH

two miles on the Via Appia, near the I

Caecilia Mctella. It nsed to be comroorJy at)

to Caracalla; but an inscription do* ap i

mentions Romulus, the son of Miimtiaa

friser. 1069); and this agrees with the

/inp*;ratorum Vicnnensu. which a>crib»

ing of a circus to M.ixentius (ii. p. 24

This building is iu a tolerable state of pc

the spina is entire, and great |«rt of tha

walls remains; so that the spectator can

clear idea of the arrangements of

A complete description of it has t*en

bv the Rev. Richard Burgess (Locdoo,

1828.)

The fifth and last of the circuses at R^eeJ

can be assumed with certainty, t» the 4

Hkmogabali, which lay near the Anfi

Caatrense, outside the walls of Auretian.

Rom. Topogr. p. 126, seq.; Becker,

p. 81.) We have already said that the

a Cmrus Florae in the 6th Rejrkc,

invention; and that of a Cmcrs Salu

same district, rests on no satisfactory

Although theatrical entertaintnenta

dmvd at Rome at an early period, the

no permanent theatre before (be

PBlt, built in the second

B. c 55. (Veil. Pat. ii. 48;

1 *

