ROMA. ROMA. 817

p. itt),MKt that building in at some little distance

ha tbe areas, and certainly does not stand on

ti;tn grand. Toe temple of Ceres contained some

frarata works of art (1'lin. xxxv. 10. a. 36. §

») specially a picture of Dionysus by Aristides,

"lubMrabo mentions that lie saw (viii. p. 381),

in which wu afterwards destroyed in a lire which

«j the temple.

I« ak» Sad a Temple or Vents mentioned at

it .ran. founded by Q. Fabias Gurges, n. a 295,

"7 tppnfriately oat of the money raised by fines

mai oa certain matrons for incontinence. (Liv.

. 31.) It stems to hare been at some distance

an the Forum Boarium, Bince the censors M.

™> tod C. Claud ilia contracted for the paving

f tit ned between the two places. (Id. xxix. 37.)

ft aire no meana of defining it) site more

nmtelj, nor can we eren tell whether it may not

M Wca connected with the altar of Venus Murcia

tn BMstioned. Bat the Temple op Flora,

»M by the aediles L. and M. Publicius, the

m was contracted the clivus or ascent to the |

*n'ii» which bore their name, must have lain  
■ u> that ascent, and consequently alio to the

a> » Ceres just described; since Tacitus, after

ti,ii the re-dedication of the latter under Tiberius,

i». ■ eodemque in loco aedem Florae (dedicavit),

lao» ft Marco Pabliciis aedilibus constitatam."

•» i 4>.) The Publicii applied part of the same

aw —raised by fines — with which they had

■rjctad the divas, in instituting floral games in

•tr of the divinity which they had here con-

Mai, at we learn from the account which Ovid

»mo the mouth of the goddess herself (Fatt.

'sent an all the temples that we find mentioned

ha quarter; oat before we leave it there are one

n pints which deserve to be noticed. The Cave

Bnctt was reputed to have been near the Clivus

eons. Salinas mentions it aa being at the

aw. atar the Porta Trigeminy (i- 8); a situa-

•hirh agues with the description in Virgil of

■wsuag of Aeneas and Erander at the Ara

ass of Hercules, from which spot Evander

> au the care on the Avestine t.l.n. viii. 190,

-

Jam prima ro

hanc adspice

» i'troDKTSt Portae mentioned in the .Vo­

le this Begion we have already spoken TPart

TX The Cajcliajc Hill.

'CntEca presents but few ronains of ancient

*f- and as the notices of it in the classics  
M«iss scanty its topography is consequently

■i a considerable obscurity. According to

(v JO) Tullus Hoatilius fixed his residence

hoc ether accounts represent him as re-

tM tat Veba. (Cic. Rrp. ii. 31.) We find a

lara Du.wae mentioned on the Caeliolus —an

sawl (art <i the eastern ridge(o!e Bar. Rttp. 15);

•« the Dca Caksa " in Caelio monte" (Ma-

1111); and a little Temple of Minerva

'* sussied on the declivity of the hill:—

*fca ex alto qua Mons descendit in aequum,  
Re obi Don plana est, bed prope plana via est,

wTa ucrt videaa Captae delubra Minenrae."

(Or. Fait. iii. 837, seq.)

Hence it was probably the same ancient sanctuary,

called "Minervium" in the sacred books of the

Argives, which lay on the northern declivity of the

Caelian towards the Tabernola (" Circa Minervium

qua e Caelio monte iter in Tabernola est," Varr.

L. L. v. § 47), and probably near the modern street

Via delta Navicella.

The most considerable building known on the

Caelian in later times was the Temple of Divus

Claudius, begun by Agrippina, destroyed by Nero,

and restored by Vespasian. (Suet. Vetp. 9; Aur.

Vict. Caet. 9.) The determination of its site de­

pends on the question how far Nero conducted the

Aqua Claudia along the Caelius, since we learn from

Frontinus that the arches of that aqueduct termi­

nated at the temple in question. (Front. Aq. 20,

76.) These Arcus Neroniani (also called Caeli-

montani, Gruter, Jnscr. clxxxvii. 3) extend along

the ridge of the narrow bill, supposed to be the

Caeliolus, from the Porta Maggiore- to the Santa

Scala opposite the Lateran, where they are inter­

rupted by the piazza and buildings belonging to that

basilica. They recommence, however, on the other

side in the Via di S. Stefano Roiondo, and proceed

with a small gap as far as that church. There

are further traces of them on the \V. side of the

arch of Dolabella; and the opinion of Canina seems

probable enough, that they terminated near the

garden of the convent of &S. Giovanni e Paolo,

and that the remains of a huge substruction at this

spot belonged to the temple of Claudius. (Indicaz.

p. 73, seq.) Canina is further of opinion that the

Aqua Claudia was distributed a little beyond this

spot, and that one of the uses to which it was

applied by Nero was to replenish bis lake, which

occupied the site of the Flavian amphitheatre.

Others, however, are of opinion that the aqueduct

did not proceed beyond the church of 6". Stefano

Jiotondo, and therefore that the temple of *Claudius

stood near that spot, or that the church may even

have been built on its foundations. But there are

no sufficient grounds for arriving at any satisfactory

conclusion on these points, and altogether the view

of Canina is perhaps the more probable one.

The Alien of Dolabella, just alluded to, ap­

pears from the inscription on it to have been erected

in the consulship of Dolabella and Silanus, a. d. 10.

Its destination has been the subject of various con­

jectures. Some have imagined it to be a restora­

tion of the Porta Caelimontana; but this can hardly

be the case, since, if the Servian walls had run in

this direction, half of the Caelian hill would hare

been shut out of the city. On the other hand, its

appearance excludes the notion of a triumphal arch;

and it could not originally hare formed part of an

aqueduct, since it was erected previously to the con­

struction of the Aqua Claudia. It seems most pro­

bable therefore that it was designed as an entrance

to some public place; but there are appearances

that Nero subsequently conducted his aqnedoct

over it. (Canina, Indicaz. p. 77.) The road which

led up to it from the Via di S. Grtgorio seems in

ancient times to bare been called Clivus Scauki.

It is ment ioned under that name in the Epistle* of &

Gregory (vii. 13), and the Anonymus Einsicdlensis

calls it Clivus Tauri, which is probably a scribe's

error.

Next to the temple of Clandius, the Notitia men­

tions a Macellum Maonum, probably the maiket

recorded by Dion Cassius as founded by Nero (tJ)»

ayopav rity oi^uv, to ndxtMov wvopaautvov, «a-

3 o

in

