THEBAK AEGYPTL THEBAE BOEOTIAE. ]145

nkn of the stream as far as Hermopolu Magna,

i northern boundary of the Thebaid, generally ex-

-i inland oo tbe K. «ide about oue mile and a half,  
the W. about two mile*. They do not indeed ob­

it ao unbroken line, but the alluvial soil, where

■ mouths of tbe collateral valleys permit, occa-

Mllr stretches much fartlier into the cuuutry.

mil and dykes in tlie IMiaraonic period admitted

I retained the Nile's deposit to an extent unknown

!it iq Grecian, Roman, or modern eras,

v-u fWm tbe river the Thebaid. in the flourishing

tjii of Aegvpt, presented a wide and animated

ttacleof cultivation and industry, wherever the

ib *dmitted of room fur cities or villages. Of the

irrr of the Kile, its teeming population and mul-

bhuou* river-craft, mention has already been made

l:>? article N ill's. Among many others, the lol-

iiy objects were beheld by thoee who travelled

:i Syeu* to Hennopolis. At first the general

*.ir.uice of the shores is barren and dreary.  
%m-Onboi, the ancient Ombi, would first arrest

:ouLm by the brilliant colours of its temples, and,

mam seasons of the year, hy the festivals held

yiMxr of the crocodile-headed deity Scvak. At

<-r> sl>o, if we may credit the Itoman satirist

m.al. Sat. xt.), tlte shore at Oinbi was the

of bloody frays with the crocodile externa-

*i trau Teutyra. Sixteen miles bcluw Ombi was  
«at of the special worship of the Nile, which

bi> point, owing to the escar|«d form of its sand-

* Links, admits of a narrow nod only on either  
, aod teems to occupy the whole breadth of

;i^t- Here too, and on the eastern bank especially

lac rut quarries of stone which supplied the

tiu architects with their durable and beautiful

muh. Various landing-places from the river

r access to those quarries: the names of suc-

itr tovereigns and princes of the xviiith dynasty,

i wan and triumphs, are recorded on the rocks;

I Jocks of stone and inunohtlial shrines are still

t-te in their galleries. Ihe temples of Apollhio-

» ^lagna {Edfu), Uie hypogaea of Kilithya,

occupying either bank, Coptos, long the seat

k*vyptian commerce with India, the temples of

or and laia at Teutyra, the mouth of the ancient

*a of the Nile, the canal of Jusuf at Diospolis  
a,ihe necropolis of Abydos, near which runs the

.rmti to the greater Oasis, the Unen-wurks and

masons' yards of Cheuimis or Panopolis

ium), the sepulchral chambers at Lyeopolis,

Cosily, the superb portico of Hennopolis Magna,

rnare, within a compass of about 380 miles,

*e*hh, enterprise, and teeming population of  
rr Ae^ypt.

x vegetation of this region announces the ap-

iu to tiie tropics. The productions of the desert,

\f-d shrubs and trees, resemble those of the Ara-

and Libyan wastes. But wherever the Nile fer-

*, the trees and plants belong rather to Aethiopia

u» the lower country. The sycamore nearly dis-

: the The ban palm and the date-palm take its

TIw lotus (Aymphaea Lotus and Xympiiaea

■Jnot) is as abundant in the Thebais as the

f;n in tlie Delta. It is the symbol of the

rr Land; its blue and white cups enliven the pools

taoaJs, and representations of them furnished

qaoot and graceful ornament to architecture.

-.. I affirded a plentiful and nutritious diet to  
C<jrer classes. The deserts of the Thebais,

h ia Christian times swarmed with monasteries

bmiatages, contained the wolf, hyaena, and

jackal: but the larger carnivorous animals of Libya

were rarely seen in Aegypt (Herod, ii. 65.) In the

Pharaonic times the hippopotamus was found in the

Nile below the Cataracts: more recently it has sel­

dom been found N. of them. The crocodile, being an

object of worship in several of the Theban nomes,

wmb doubtless more abundant than it is now. From

both papyri and sculjttures we know that tbe The­

ban landowners possessed horned cattle and sheep

in abundauce, although they kept the hitter for their

wool and milk principally; and the chariots of

Thebes attest tlie breeding and training of hones.

From extant drawings on tlie monuments we know

also that horticulture was a favourite occupation in

Upper Aegypt.

Tlie population of the Thebais was probably of a

purer Aegyptian stamp than that of the Delta; at

least its admixtures were derived from Arabia or

Meroe rather than from Phoenicia or Greece. Its

revolutions, too, proceeded from the south, and it

was comparatively unaffected by those of the Lower

Country. Even as late as the age of Tiberius, a d.

14 — 37, the land was prosperous, as is proved by

the extension and restoration of so many of its pub­

lic monuments; and it was not until the reign of

Diocletian that its ruin was consummated by the in­

road of the Blemmyes, and other barbarous tribes

from Nubia and the Arabian desert. [W. B. D.]

TIIEBAE (»rjff<u, orig. 0^«n, Dor. &+,€a; Eth.

©rjffalor, fern. &i}€ats, Thebanus, fern. Thebais), the

chief city in Boeotia, was situated in tlie southern

plain of the country, which is divided from the

northern by tbe ridge of Onchestus. Both these

plains are surrounded by mountains, and contained

for a long time two separate confederacies, of which

Orcbomenus in the north and Thebes in the south

were the two leading cities.

L History.

No city in Greece possessed such long continued

celebrity as Thebes. Athens and Sparta, which

were tlie centres of Grecian political life in the

historical period, were poor in mythical renown;

while Argus and Mycenae, whose mythical annals

are full of glorious reedlections, sank into romru-

rative insignificance in historical times, and My­

cenae indeed was blotted out of the map of Greece

soon after the Persian wars- But in the mythi­

cal ages Thebes shone pre-eminent, while in later

times she always maintained her place as the third

city of Greece; and after the battle of Leuctra "as

for a short period the ruling city. The moat cele­

brated Grecian legends cluster round Thebes as their

centre; and her two sieges, and the fortunes of her

royal houses, were the favourite subjects of the tragic

muse. It was the native city of" the great seer

Teiresias and of the great musician Amphion. It

was the reputed birthplace of the two deities Dionysus

and Hercules, whence Thebes is said by Sophocles to

be ''the only city where mortal women are the mo­

thers of gods (oo 6i) \jJ>vqv r'iKrouaif al i&MfTal

d«ovs, Fragm. ap. Dicaearch, § 17, ed. JIullerj

Mure, Tour in Greece, vol. i. p. 253.)

According to the generally received tradition,

Thebes was founded by Cadmus, the leader of a

Phoenician colony, who called the city Cai»ikia

(KaS^d'a), a name which was afterwards confined

to tbe citadel. In the Odyssey. Amphion and Ix-

tbus, the two sons of Antiope by Zeus, are repre­

sented as the hut founders of Thebes and the first

