TEHAPIIENT.S. 1121 TELIS.

TEHAPHEXES. [Tahpawis.]

1K1CHIUM (TWxuw), a town of AetnHa Epic-

tm, «i the burden* of Locris, and one day's mitrcli

an Crocyleium. (Thoc. lii. 96.)

TEKOAH (Btircr^ \ Maccab. ix. 33; Bricwa or

■tout, Jueph. ViL 75), a town of Palestine in Ju-

ii, to the south of Bethlehem. It was the rest*

ncf of the wise woman who pleaded in behalf of

ulum; wan fortified by nVhoboam; was the birth-

ice i4" the prophet Amos, and gave its name to

f nlj.tcwit desert on the east. (2 Sam. sir. 2;

fin*, xi. 6; Amos, i. 1; 2 Chron. xx. 20;

'/rice, ix 33.) Jerome describe* Tekoah as situated

m a bill, 6 miles south of Bethlehem, from

rfc city it was visible. (Hieron. Prooem. m Amr*.

I Comm. in Jerem. vi. 1.) Its site still bears the

■n« of 7>i:u'a, and is described by Robinson as an

rated bill, not Bleep, but broad on the top, and

nal with ruins to the extent of four or five acres.

cinsist chiefly of the foundations of houses

H "f squared stones; and near the middle of the

'ire tbe remains of a Greek church. (Robin-

, HUn\ H*s. vol. i. p. 486, 2nd ed.)

JELA, a place of the Vaccaei in His pan ia Tarra-

'im* (Itin. Ant, p. 440). Variously identified

h ForriaiUas and Medina de Mo Stco. [T.H.D.]

rt'LAMOX (TcAo/iwF: Telamone), a city nn

>"&>t of El run a, situated on a promontory he­

rn the Hons Argentarius and the mouth of the

»n»(Ombrone), with a tolerable port adjoining

The story told by Diodoros of its having de-

■•i 1:1 name from the hero Telamon, who accom-

'"i the Argonauts on their voyage, maybe safely

itund as an etymological fable (Diod. iv. 56).

-»seems no reason to doubt that it was origi-  
j an Etruscan town, but no mention of its name

in in history during the period of Etruscan in-

-lifoce. It is first noticed in «. c 225, when  
^ut battle was fought by the Romans in its

"lute neighbourhood with an army of Cisalpine

k who had made an irruption into Etruria, but

1 icterrepled by the consuls C. Atiliua and L.

'iliiu in the neighbourhood of Telamon, and

h defeated. They are said to have lost 40.000

vmii, and 10,000 prisoners, among whom was

A their chiefs or kings (Pol. i. 27—31). The

*, «bich ts described by Polybius in consider-  
«i?tail, is expressly stated by him to have oc-

"near Telamon in Etruria:" Front inns, in

ttcg of the same battle, places the scene of it

1' puluoia (Strat. i. 2. § 7). but the authority

«-<f-ia* is certainly preferable. The only other

-ri of Telamon that occurs in history is in  
IT, when Marius landed there on his return

«ile, and commenced gathering an army around

(Prat. Mar. 41.) Hut there is no doubt

n tMilinued tn exist as a town, deriving some

ruor* frwn its port, throughout the period of

iuiian dominion. Its name is found both in

and Pliny, who calls it "partus Telamon,"

Ptolemy notices only the promontory of the

(TiAsyiaW &Kt>avt Ptol. in. 1. § 4; Plin. tii. 5.

Met ii. 4. § 9). Tbe Itineraries prove that

■ suJI in existence as late as the 4th century

■ /Vat; /faV Marit. p. 500, where it is called

las Taiamonis "); but from this time all trace

li'Sppearv till the 14th century, when a castle

sveted ou the site. This, with the miserable

■* winch adjoins it, still bears the name of

u.>*f; and the chores of the bay are lined with

'■>«■*■ Human buildings, but of no great interest;

4-IL

and there are no relics of Etruscan antinnitr. (Den­

nis's Etruria, vol. U. p.258.) [E. H. B.]

TELCHl'NES. [Khodi;s. p. 713.]

TELEBOAE. [Taphiak.]

TELE'BOAS (A TnAsfoai ttoto+l6i, Xen. Anab.

iv. 4. § 3), a river of Armenia Major, a tributary

of the Euphrates. Probably identical with the Ak-

SAMIAA. [T.H.D.]

TELE'PHRIUS HONS. [Ei-boka.]

TELEPTE. [Thaul]

TELE'SIA (TeAwfo: Elk, Tetesinus: TWese), a

considerable city of Samnium, situated in the valley

of the Calor, a short distance from its right bank,

and about 3 miles above its confluence with the

Vulturnus. It is remarkable that its name is never

mentioned during the long wars of the Romans

with the Samnites, though the valley in which it

was situated was often the theatre of hostilities.

Its name first occurs in the Second Punic War,

when it was taken by Hannibal on his first irrup­

tion into Samnium, b. c. 217 (Li v. xxiL 13); but

was recovered by Fabius in B. c. 214. (Id. xxiv.

20.) From this time we hear no more of it till it

became an ordinary Roman municipal town. Strabo

speaks of it as having in his time fallen into almost

complete decay, m common with most of the cities

of Samnium. (Strah. v. p. 2.')0.) But we leant

that it received a colony in the time of tbe Trium­

virate (Lib. Colon, p. 238); and, though not men­

tioned by Pliny as a colony (the name is altogether

omitted by him), it is certain, from inscriptions,

that it retained its colonial rank, and appears to

have continued under the Roman Empire to have

been a flourishing and considerable town. (Orell.

/user. 2626; Romanelli, vol. ii. p. 423; Mommsen,

Inscr. Jt.N. 4840— 4915.) It was situated on the

line of the Via Latina, or rather of a branch of that

raid which was carried from Tcamim in Campania

through Allifae and Telesia to Beneventurn (Itin.

Ant. pp. 122. 304; Tub. J'nd.), and this probably

contributed to preserve it from decay.

The ruins of the ancient city are still visible

about a mile to the NW. of the village still called

Telfte : the circuit of the walls is complete, inclosing

a space of octagonal shape, not exceeding 1} mile

in circumference, with several gates, flanked by

massive towers. The masonry is of reticulated

work, and therefore probably not earlier than the

time of the Roman Empire. The only ruins within

the circuit of the walls are mere shapeless mounds

of brick; but outside the walls may be traced the

vestiges of a circus, anil some remains of an am­

phitheatre. All these remains undoubtedly belong to

the Roman colony, and there are no vestiges of the

ancient Ssmnite city. The present village of 7V7rse

is a very small and poor place, rendered desolate by

malaria; hut in the middle ages it was an episcopal

see, and its princi|*l church is still dignified by the

name of a cathedral. Its walls contain many Latin

inscriptions, brought from the ancient city, the in­

habitants of which migrated to the later site in the

ninth century. (Craven. Abrvzzi,vol. ii. pp.173—175;

(jiuMiniani, Jtizion. Topoyr. vol. ix. pp. 149, 150.)

Telesia was remarkable as being the birthplace

of the ceh-brated Simnite leader, during tbe N* ial

War, Pontius Telesinus; and it is probable (though

there is nn distinct authority for the fact) that

it was also that of the still more celebrated C. Pon­

tius, who defeated the Romans at the Caudme

Forks. [E.H.B.]

TELIS. [RrwiNO.]

4 O

