172 LEUCOTHEES FANUM. LEUKI.

nate all the inhabitants of the country by their na­

tive, or rather Persian name, Cappadoccs ; but it

was applied more particularly to the inhabitants of

the coast district on the Euxine, between the rivers

Halys and Iris. (Herat. Fragm. 194, 200, 350;

Marcian. Heracl. p. 72.) Ptolemy (v. 6. § 2) also

applies the name exclusively to the inhabitants about

the Iris, and treats of their country as a jart of the

province of Cappadocia. The Leucosyri were regarded

as colonists, who had been planted there during the

early conquests of the Assyrians, and were succes­

sively subject to Lydia, Persia, and Macedonia;

but after the time of Alexander their name is

scarcely mentioned, the people having become entirely

amalgamated with the nations among which they

lived. [L.S.]

LEUCOTHEES FANUM (Afiwofftas JcpoV), a

temple and oracle in the district of the Moschi in

Colchis. Its legendary founder was Phryxus; the

temple was plundered by Pharnaccs and then by

Mithridatcs. (Strab. xi. p. 498.) The site has been

placed near Sutxtm, on the frontiers of Imiretia and

Kartuhlia, where two large "tumuli" are now

found. (Dubois de Montpereux, Voyage Autour du

Caucase, vol. ii. p. 349, com p. p. 17, vol. iii. p.

171.) [E.B.J.]

LEUC0THE1UM. [Leucolla.]

LEUCTRA (ra Affwrrpa). 1. A Tillage of

Boeotia, situated on the road from Thespiae to

Plataea (Strab. ix. p. 414), and in the territory of

the former city. (Xen. Hell, vi. 4. § 4). Its name

only occurs in history on account of the celebrated

battle fought in its neighbourhood between the

Spartans and Thebans, B.C. 371, by which the

supremacy of Sparta was for ever overthrown. In

the plain of Leuctra, was the tomb of the two

daughters of Scedasus, a Leuctrian, who had been

violated by two Spartans, and had afterwards slain

themselves; this tomb was crowned with wreaths

by Epaminondas before the battle, since an oracle

had predicted tliat the Spartans would be defeated

at this spot (Xen. I/ell. vi. 4. § 7; Diod. xv. 54;

Paus. ix. 13. § 3; Plut Peiop. cc. 20, 21). The

city of Leuctra, is sometimes supposed to be repre­

sented by the extensive ruins at Lefka (A«i/*a),

which are situated immediately below the modern

village of liimokastro. But these ruins are clearly

those of Thespiae, as appears from the inscriptions

found there, as well as from their importance; fur

Leuctra was never anything more than'a village in

the territory of Thespiae, and had apparently

ceased to exist in the time of Strabo, who calls it

simply a r6iros (x. p. 414). The real bite of

Leuctra, " is very clearly marked by a tumulus and

some artificial ground on the summit of the ridge

which borders the southern side of the valley of

Thespiae. The battle of Leuctra was fought pro­

bably iu the valley on the northern side of the

tumulus, about midway between Thespiae, and the

western extremity of the plain of Plataea. Cleom-

brotus, in order to avoid the Boeotians, who were

expecting him by the direct route from Phocia,

marched by Thisbe and the valleys on the southern

side of Mount Helicon; and having thus made his

appearance suddenly at Crcusis, the port of Thespiae,

raptured that fortress. From thence, be moved

upnn Leuctra, where he intrenched himself on a

rising ground; after which the Tin-bans encamped

on an opposite hill, at no great distance. The

[MMtinn of the latter, thereforr, n-em« to have been

on the eastern prolongation of the height of iiimo-

kastro? (Leake.) The tumulus is probably tl*

place of sepulture of the 1000 I*acedaemoniana wh»

fell in the battle. For a full account of this

celebrated contest, see Grote, //iff. ofGrttcr, vol. x.

p. 239, seq. In ancient times, the neighbouriio>.4

of Leuctra appears to have been well wooded, as w«

may infer from the epithet of "»hady" bestowed

upon it by the oracle of Delphi (Afwrrpa e-xtoirra,

Paus. ix. 14. § 3); but at present there is seanvlf

a shrub or a tree to be seen in the surrouridii *

country. (Leake, North, Greece vol. iL p. 4S0. *c>\.

2. Or Leuctrum (to Atvtcrpa, Paus.; ts A«mc-

rpov, Strab., Plut., Ptol.), a town of Laconia,

situated on the eastern side of the Mcssenian gulf,

20 stadia north of Pephnus, and 60 stadia soutii «f

Cardamyle. Strabo speaks of Leuctrum as near

the minor Pamisus, but this river flows into the sea

at Pephnus, about three miles south of Leuctrum

[Pephnus]. The ruins of Leuctrum are still

called Isflro. Leuctrum was said to have been

founded by Pelops, and was claimed by the Messe-

nians as originally one of their towns. It wis

awarded to the latter people by Philip in a.c 338,

but in the time of the Roman empire it was one uf

the Elcuthero-Laconian places. (Strab. viii. pp.

360, 361; Paus. iii. 21. § 7, iii. 26. § 4, seq.;

Wut.Pclop. 20; Plin.iv.5. s. 8; Ptol. iii. 16-§9.)

Pausanias saw in Leuctra a temple and statue <■*

Athena on the Acropolis, a temple and statue of

Cassandra (there called Alexandra), a marble statue

of Asclepius, another of Ino, and wooden figures

of Apollo Carneius. (Paus. iii. 26. § 4, acq).

(Leake, Aforea, vol. i. p. 331, PtloponnesiocxL,

p. 179; Boblaye, Recherchti, fcc. p. 93; Carttos

Peloponnetos, vol. ii. p. 285.)

3. Or Lkl'CTRL'M (ra A«wrrpa, Thnc Xen.: ts

AtvKTpov, Paus.), a fortress of the districr Aecytis,

on the confines of Arcadia and Laconia, described by

Thurydides (v. 54) as on the confines of Laconia

towards Mt. Lycaeus, and by Xenophon (//e/i. w, it.

§ 24). It was originally an Arcadian town, but

was included in the territory of Laconia. (lime.

/. c.) It commanded one of the passes leading into

Laconia, by which a portion uf the Theban army

penetrated into the country on their first iiivauuc

under Epaminondas. (Xen. Lc.) It was detached

from Sparta by Epaminondas, and added to the

territory of Megalopolis. (Paus. viii. 27. § 4.)

It appears to have stood on the direct road (rata

Sparta to Megalopolis, either at or near LeomUri,

in which position it was originally placed by Leake;

and this seems more probable than the site »u6-

sequently assigned to it by the same writer, who

supposes that both Leuctra and MaJea were on the

route from Megalopolis to Carnasiutn. [Malka.]

(Leake, Mtrrta, vol. ii. p. 322, VtlofMmnttutca,

p. 248; Curtios, Pehponne*os} voL L p. 336.)

LEUCTKUM. [Lkuctka.]

LEl'CUS. [Pydna.]

LEVI. [PALAKSTINA.]

LEUXI (A«u»o(), a tribe of the \lnotiiri, which

Ptolemy (ii. 13. § 1) places between the Kunjra:«»

and C'onsuantae. The form ot the luune ha* t+m

the subject of discussion; Mannert mainUinuaj; that

it ought to be writ ten Aatrrot, and that it is the

general name of several tribes in those part*, »tifh

as the BtrXavyot anil 'AAawof. But nothing? ear-

tain can be said about the matter; and all we know

is, that the Leuni must have dwelt at the foes rf

the Alps of Salzburg, in the south eastern part <*T

Bavaria. [l~£*]

