JERUSALEM,

23 JERUSALEM.

signed to virions uses. The Pronaus was, however,

30 cubits wider, 15 on the north, and 15 on tlie

south, giving it a total length of 1U0 cubits, wbidi,

with a width of only 11 cubits, must have pre­

sented the proportions of a Narthex in a Byzantine

church. Its interior height was 90 cubits, and,

whiie the chambers on the sides of the Temple rose

only to the height of 60 cubits, there was an ad­

ditional story of 40 cubits above the Sanctuary,

also occupied by chambers, rising into a clerestory

of the same elevation as the vestibule.

The front of the Temple was plated with gold,

and reflected back the beams of the rising sun with

duxling effect; and, where it was not encrusted

with gold, it was exceedingly white. Some of the

stones of which it was constructed were 45 cubits

long, 5 deep, and 6 wide.

East of the Altar was the Court of the Priests,

135 cubits long and 11 wide; and, east of that

again, was the Court of Israel, of the same dimen­

sions. Kast of this was the Court of the Women,

l-'l,"* cubits square, considerably below the level of

the former, to which there was au ascent of 15

semicircular steps to the magnificent pates of Corin­

thian brass, 50 cubits in height, with doors of 40

cubits, so ponderous that they could witli diffi­

culty be shut by 20 men, the spontaneous open­

ing of which was one of the portents of the ap-

pnarliing destruction of the Temple, mentioned by

j'sephus (BelL Jud. vi. 5. § 3), and repeated by

Tacitus (But v. 13).

Thus much must suffice for this most venerated

seat of the iiebrew worship from the age of Solomon

until the final destruction of the Jewish polity. But,

in order to complete the survey, it will be necessary

to notice the Acropolis, which occupied the north­

west angle of the Temple enclosure, and which was,

says tlie historian, the fortress of the Temple, as the

Temple was of the city. Its original name was

Bans, until Herod the Great, having greatly en­

larged and beautified it, changed its name to Antonia,

in honour of his friend Mark Antony. It combined

the strength of a castle with the magnificence of a

palace, and was like a city in extent,—comprehend­

ing within its walls not only spacious apartments,

but courts and camping ground for soldiers. It was

Mtuated on an elevated rock, which was faced with

tlabs of smooth stone, upon which was raised a

breastwork of 3 cubits high, within which was the

building, rising to a height of 40 cubits. It had

turrets at its f-iur corners, three of them 50 cubits

high, but that at the south-east angle was 70 cubits,

and commanded a view of the whole Temple. It

communicated with tlie northern and western cloisters

of the Temple at the angle of the area, by flights of

steps for the convenience of the garrison which usually

occuf ied this commanding position; and it is a re­

markable and interesting coincidence, that the site of

the official residence of the Roman procurator and his

gaard is now occupied by the Seraiyah, or official

resident* of the Turkish Pasha and his guard: for

there can be no question of the identity of tlie site,

tince the native rock here, as at Mippicus, still remains

to attest the fidelity of the Jewish historian. The

ruck is here * cut perpendicularly to an extent of

JO feet in some parts: while within tlie area also, in

the direction of the Mosk, a considerable portion of

the rock has been cut away " to the general level of

the enclosure (Bartlett, Walks about Jerusalem,

pp. 156.174,175); so that the Seraiyah, or govem-

•jent bouse, actually "rests upon a precipice of

rock which formerly swept down abruptly, and has

obviously been cut away to form the level below,

which also bears marks of having been scarped."

The fortress was protected towards Bezetha by

an artificial fosse, so as to prevent its foundations

from being assailed from that quarter. This fosse

has only lately been filled in.

It is certain, from several passages, that the for­

tress Antonia did not cover the whole of the northern

front of tlie Temple area; and, as the second wall,

that encircled the Lower City, ended at the fortress,

it is clear that this wall could not hare coincided

with the modern wall at the north-east quarter of

the modern city. It is demonstrable, from several

allusions and historical notices, that there must have

been a considerable space between the second and

third wall on the northern front of the Temple area.

(Williams, Holy City, vol. ii. pp. 348—353.)

V. History.

The ancient history of Jerusalem may he con­

veniently divided into four jieriods. 1. The Ca-

naanitiJi, or Amorite. 2. The Hebrew, or Ante-

Babylonian. 3. The Jewish, or Post-Babyloniiin.

4. Tho Koman, or classical.

1. Of these, the first may claim the fullest

notice here, as the sources of information concerning

it are much less generally known or read than those

of the later periods, and anything that relates to the

reunite history of that venerable city cannot but be

full of interest to the antiquarian, no less than to the

Christian student.

It has been said that the learned are divided in

opinion as to tlie identity of tlie Salem of Melchi-

zedck with the Jerusalem of Sacred History. The

writer of a very learned and interesting Review of

the Second Edition of the Holy City, which appeared

in the Christian Remembrancer (vol. xviii. October,

1849), may be said to have demonstrated that iden­

tity by a close critical analysis of all the passages

in which the circumstances are alluded to; and has

further shown it to be highly probable that this

patriarch was identical, not with Shem, as has been

sometimes supposed, but with Hcber, the son of

Peleg, from whom the land of Canaan had obtained

the name of the " land of the Hebrews" or Heberites,

as earlv as the days of Joseph's deportation to Egypt.

(Gem. xl. 15.)

But the elucidation which the early history of

Jerusalem receives from the monuments of Egypt is

extremely important and valuable, as relating to a

period which is passed over in silence by the sacred

historian; and the*e notices are well collected and

arranged in the review referred to, being borrowed

from Mr. Osburn's very interesting work entitled

Egypt, her Testimony to the Truth. After citing

some monuments of Sethos, and Sesostris his son,

relating to the Jcbusites, the writer proceeds: —

"What glimpses, then, do we obtain, if any, of the

existence of such a city as Jerusalem during the

recorded period? Under that name, of course, we

must not expect to find it; since even in the days of

Joshua and the Judges it is so called by anticipation.

(Hob/ City, vol. i. p. 3, note.) But there is a city

which stands forth with a very marked and peculiar

prominence in these wars of the kings of Egypt with

the Jcbusites, Amorites, and neighbouring tuitions.

We meet with it first as a fortress of the Amorites.

Sethos 11. is engaged in besieging it. It is situated

on a hill, and strengthened with two tiers of ram­

parts. The inscription sets forth that it is in the

c 4

