966 SEQUANI. SERDICA.

united streams of the Seqnana and Matrona entered

the sea near Castra Constantia (Coutances), which

is a preat mistake. In the cosmography of Aethicus

the Seqnana is named Geon or Geobonna, [G. L.]

SE'QUANI (SijKovavo't), a Celtic nation in the

up|«-r vallfy ot ibe Arir or Saotie. Luean {\. 425)

follows the quantity of the Greek form: —

u Optima gens flexis in pyrum Sequana fraen'is."

Caesar fixes the position of the Seqnani. Tiieir

territory extended to the Rhine, (fi. G. i. 1.) The

Jura .separated them on tiie east from the Helvetii;

and the narrow puss between the Jura and 1 lie

RhotM at Fort V Eel use was in the possession of the

Sequani (B. 0. i. C, 8). The southern boundary of

their territory from Fort TEclusc was the Rhotw;

but they did not possess all the country in the anple

between the Rhone and the Sadne, for part of it was

held by the Allubropes (B. G. i. 12), and part by

the Sepusiani (B. G. i. 10) and by the Ainbarri,

who were dependent on the Aedui (B. G. i. 11).

When Caesar describes the march of the Helvetii

from Fort C Ecluse to the Saotie, he says that the

Helvetii first passed through the territory of the

Sequani, and then entered the territory of the Aedui,

which tliey plundered. But they bad not yet reached

the Sating asCasar's narrative shows, and it is clear

from this passage G. i. 11) and those already

cited, that a large tract of country between the

Rhone and tSaone did not belong to the Sequani, for

the line of march of the Helvetii from Fort CEcluse

to the Saotie would probably bring them to the Saone

at a point not much lower down than Macon. The

western boundary of the Sequani was the Arar, also

called the Sauconna, a name which appears to be

the BftllK! as the name of the Sequani. Their neigh­

bours on the west side of the&flOJM were the Aedui,

with whom the Sequani had disputes about the river

tolls(Strab. iv. p. 192). On the north their neighbours

were the Leuci and Lingone*. Strabo (iv. p. 186)

describes the Arar and Dubis (Jhntbs) as Mowing

throuph the country of the Sequani. IVAnville has

an argument to show that the jurt of the dioceses

of Chdhn-.sur-Stwue and Macon which is east of

the Snone belonged to the old territory of the Se­

quani, which may be true; but the towns Matisco

(Macon) and Cabillonuin (Chalon) were on the

west side of the Snone and in the territory of the

Aedui (B. G. vii. 90>

In another ]ia.>sage besides that already referred

to, Caesar ahowa that the Sequani extended to the

Bbine, lor in describing the course of this river from

south to north, lie says that it passes by the terri­

tory of the Helvetii, Sequani, JMliomatrici and

Tribocci (B. G. iv. 10.)

The Sequani belonged to the divi>ion of tlelciea

under the Empire (Plin. iv. 17; Ptol. ii. 9. § 21).

The territory of the Sequani contained much goud

land, some of the best in Gallia. Their chief town

was Vesontio (Besancon) on the Doubs, and they

bad otla?r towns also. They fed hogs, and their

hams and bacon were exported to Ittmc as Strabo

(iv.p.192) say.-.;and Varro (*Ve R.R. ii. 4) may mean

to say the same, when he ipeakl of Gallic bacon.

The Sequani had kings, sometimes at least; fur

Gallic kings were not perpetual. (B. G. i. 3.) liefore

Caesar went into Gallia, the Arverni and Aedui had

bf*en the two most powerful peoples. The Sequani

were in league with the Arverni, who occupied the

centre of all Gallia, but hostile to tiieir neighbours

the Aedui To maintain themselves against the

Aedui, the Arverni and Sequani

come over the Rhine. The

numbers, and in Caesar's time it

there were 120,000 of them in Gallia. Tbiaiatat

historical notice of a permanent settlement rfGen

in these parts. TheSequani with the a^taoeerftaoil

allies defeated and humbled the Aedui.but they pa

nothing by this victory. Aridvanan, to* *aaj

these German mercenaries, took from the

third part of their lands, and

take a second third, when Caesar drove the Get

into the Khine, after defeating tbem war that

If the Germans were all destroyed or drivel

from the territory of the Sequani by C****!

came again, for the country on the west baa*

Khine, which belonged to the Sequani, the 1

Alsace, has been German for many center**.

In b. c. 52, the Sequani were among thti

who sent their contingent to attack Caanw

Alesia. [6

SERA (2^0, Ptol. i. ll.§ 1, IT. § S.yiUjJ

16. § 8, nil 24. § 8), the capital of laneannlj

Serica, and one of the chief conunercUi t*"v4

the Seres. It is the remotest point of Eastea ian

with which the ancients bad any commena. erf

which they possessed any kno* ledge. I

situated on the mountain Ottorocorras at I

era source of the Hautisus. Manner* (it. f.

identifies it either with Singan in the pre*

Schensi, or with Honan on the 2/twwo-a*

cording to Heeren (/oVen, i. 2. p. 66$) it ia

itself. [T.fcLRj

SERACA (2fp«a, PtoL v. 9. § 2S). a a

the S. of Asiatic Sarmatia. [T. IL

SERAXl'SA, perhaps more correctly

a town of the interior of Pontus Poiem

the south-east of Comana Pontic*. (7"e4.

Ptol. v. 6. § 9, where it ia written 2<*n

leptiovya.') --JJ

SEBAPIUM (It. Anton, p. 170; S«rana,«l

rent), a large village seated near the jaai

the canal of the Ptolemies with the Bits*

east of the Delta. Serapium was 18 mJm

from Heroopolis and 50 from Clysma, ai the

the Sinus Heroopolites. Its temple of

its position on the canal that cumwetfd Oat

with the Red Sea. rendered it a place of

able traffic. It was probably founded, a

enlarged, by the Ptolemies after PI

(n.c. 274) had extended the canal uian

Lakes. [W.aV

SERBES (2f>6Trroy U§o\al, Ptoi. iv.

a small river on the N. coast i* Maariuaa

Ml into tlie sea to the W. of Bnauuaiinm

the present J/a«ja/Van, or, more prtiJeJI

fs8t*r. IB. Ski

SKRBIorSIRBI (Xtp€ot or 2«>Cm, P»4

§ 21), a people in Asiatic Sarmatia*

Ptolemy (/. c.) between the Oraonian

and the river Rha, above the Ihduri and

Vali. Pliny, however (vL 7. a. 7), pUcea

the E. shoie of the Maeotia, t*tween tht T<

the Arrechi. (Comp. 25cbaflarik, Star. A'

p. 165.) [T.at

SERBO'N'IS LACCS. [Sir.iu.yi*

SE'RDICA or SA'KDICA (Japawca,

§ 12) (the first of these furvas a At

with the Romans, the latter with the d

considerable town of Upper Moet&ta. which

times was regarded as belonging to Taraae j|

U:)t but which in the third

