186 LIGURIA. LIGUTUA.

Monaco, while the main chain of the same moun­

tains, turning off from the general direction of the

central chain of the Alps near the sources of the

Yar (Varus), is prolonged in a lofty and rugged

range til) it reaches the sea between Noli and Savona.

The lateral ranges and offidioots which descend from

tlicse mountains to the sea" occupy the whole line of

coast from Monaco to Sarorui. Hence this line has

always been one where there has been much diffi­

culty in making and maintaining a practicable road.

It was not till the reign of Augustus that the

ltomans carried a highway from Vail a Sabbata to

Antipolis; and in the middle ages, when the Itoman

roads had fallen into decay, the whole of this line of

coast became proverbial for the difficulty of its com-

munications. (Dante, Purg. iii. 49.) From the

neighbourhood of Vada Sabbata, or Savona, where the

Alps may be considered to end and the A|>cnnines to

begin, the latter chain of mountains runs nearly

jarallel with the coast of Liguria throughout its

whole extent as far as the river Macra; and though

the range of the Apennines is far inferior in elevation

to that of the Maritime Alps, they nevertheless con­

stitute a mountain mass of a rugged and difficult

character, which leaves scarcely any level space be­

tween the foot of the mountains and the sea. The

northern declivity of the Apennines is less abrupt,

ami the mountains gradually subside into ranges of

steep wooded hills as they approach the plains of the

J*o: but for this very reason the space occupied by

the mountainous and hilly tract is more extensive,

and constitutes a broad belt or hand varying from

15 to .'10 miles in width. The narrowest portion of

the range, as well as one of the lowest, is immedi­

ately at the back of Genoa, and for that reason the

pass from that city to Dertona was in ancient as

well as modern times one of the principal lines of

communication with the interior. Another natural

pass is marked out by a depression in the ridge be­

tween the Maritime Alps and Apennines, which is

crossed by the road from Savona to Cera. This line

of road communicates with the plain at the X. foot

of the Maritime Alps, extending from the neighbour­

hood of Cvtti and Mondavi to that of Twin, which

is one of the most extensive tracts of fertile and

level country comprised within the limits of the

ancient Liguria. K. of this, the hills of the Astigi-

ana and Mwf'trrat extend from the foot of the

Alt-unities (of the northern slojies of which they are,

in fact, a mere continuation) quite to the bank of the

J'o; but are of moderate elevation and constitute a

fertile country. Beyond these, again, another tract of

plain occurs, but of less extent; fur though it runs

tar up into the mountains near Aorr, it is soon

hemmed in again by the hills which descend to

7'"rtona (l)ertona), Yitglnra (lria), and CatUyyio

(Clastidium), so aa to leave but a narrow atrip of

plain between them and the hanks of the Pa,

The physical features of Liguria naturally exer-

c'ii*d a marked influence on the character and habits

of its inhabitants. It was with the tribes who occu­

pied the U-fty snd rugged ranges of the A]cnnines

K. of the Macra (where these mountains rise to a

much greater elevation, and assume a much more

Alpine character, than in any part of Liguria proper)

that the Romans waged their longest and most ob­

stinate contests; but all the tribes who inhabited the

upper valleys of the central chain, and the steep snd

rugged declivities of the A) en nines towards the seaT

partook of the same hardy and warlike character.

On the other hand, the Stuticlli, Ya^icuni, and other

tribes who occupied the more fertile hills snd rslierj

on the N. declivity of the ApcimiiteA. were evidri\.t

reduced with comparatively little difficulty. It is la

the former portion of the Ligurian people that tb*

character and description of them which we find ui

ancient writers may be considered almost exclusively

to apply. Strabo says that they dwelt in scsttered

villages, tilling the soil with difficulty, on Seconal of

its rugged and barren character, so that they Ili'

almost to quarry rather than dig it. But their th.«:

subsistence was derived from their herds, which »lj-

phed them with flesh, cheese, and milk ; and tbri

mode a kind of drink from barley. Their mountains

also supplied timber in great abundance and of the

largest size. Genua was their principal empicium,

ami thither they brought, for export, timber, caltV,

hides, and honey, in return for which they received

wine and oil. (Strab. iv. p. 202, v. p. 218; Diod.

v. 39. ) In the days of the geographer they pro­

duced but little wine, and that of bad quality ; but

Pliny speaks of the Ligurian wines with commenia-

tion. (Strab. p. 202; Plin.xiv. 6.s. 8.) The nature

of their country and the life they led inured them to

hardships (" assuetnm malo Ligurem," Virg. G. it

168; "Ligurcs montani duri et agrestes," Cie. aV

Jjfa. Ayr. ii. 35) ; and they were distinpiished for

their agility, which admirably fitted them for tie

cliase, as well as for the kind of predatory wariait

which they so long maintained against the Humane.

Cato gave them the character of being treachtrctm

and deceitful,—an opinion which teem* to have bees

goner ally adopted by the Romans (Serv. ad Aem.xL

700, 71ft), and must naturally have grown up froti

the nature of the wars between them; but tbri

appear to have served faithfully, as well as braver*.

in the service of the Greeks and Carthaginians, *•

mercenaries, and. at a later period, as auxiliaries m

those of Home. (Diod. v. 39; I'lut. Mar. 19 ; Toe.

Hist, ii. 14.) The troops they furnished were almost

exclusively infantry, and, for the most {art, liarbt-

armed : they excelled particularly as slingers^lVad -

Arist. Mirab. 90); but their regular infantry car­

ried oblong shields of brass, resembling those of the

Greeks. (I>iod. I.e.; Strab. iv. p. 202.) Donrr

the period of their independence, they t»ol only matV

plundering incursions by land into the neighUurii-c

countries, but carried on piracy by sea to a cocsidtr-

able extent, and wet* distinguished for their tardi­

ness and dating as navigators, as well as in all laeir

other pursuits. (Diod. v. 39; Liv. xL 18, 28.) Tbr

mountain tribes resembled the Gauls and Gana

in the custom of wearing their hair Ions; ; onwiuiL

account the wilder tril-es, which were the) Last t«

maintain their independence, were known as the

Ligurcs Capillati orOnmti (Aryvir Ko#*irvai, I»*«.

Cass. liv. 24; Win. iii. 20. a. 24; Lucan, L 442);

and the cropping their hair wis regarded as a peW

of their subjection to Home.

Among tic n.ore [4-culinr natural production* <■

Liguria are noticed a breed of dwarf bortrs «i>

mules, called by the Gie»ks yifvoi ; and a kiad «f

mineral resembling amber, called hf}*foip*mw. a L* i

appears to have been confounded by Tbeojiirastu*

with genuine amber. (Strab. iv. p. 202; *llssvfs\r.

de lajiid. §§ 28, 29.)

The Ligurians were divided, like most aattirsst m

a similar state of society, into a number of trie**,

which a]]-ear to have bad little, if any, pnbtw.I

bond of union beyond the temporary alliance* whu .

they might form fur warlike objects ; and it is «ii-

deutt from the account of the wars carried an It

