PALAKSTINA. PALAESTIHA.

el.ffulek, "tlio waters of Merom" of Scripture

(Josh xi. ">. 7), the Skmki'Honitis Talis of

Jospphus (Ant. v. 5. § 1, BelLJtid. iii. 12. § 7, iv.

1.5 1); but the plain between this lake an<l Pa­

ri oa a is hard to be explored, in consequence of nu­

merous fountains and the rivulets into which the

main streams arc here divided. (Robinson, /. c. pp.

353, 35-1; fiibliothrca Sacra, 1843, pp. 12, 13.)

This point wa> investigated by Dr. Robinson in

1852. and lie found that both the l.tdan and the

Hasbany unite their waters with the stream from

/>V«wx, some distance above (he lake, to which they

run in one stream. (Juurmd Ji. Geuy, Si*-, vol. xxiv.

p. 25, 1855.)

This region, now called Merj-ehlfulth, might

well be designated eAos or * Atj tou lopSdfov, " the

marshes of Jordan," by which name, however, the

author of the first book of Maccabees (1 M<tc<: ix.

42) and Joseph us (Ant. xiii. 1. ij 3) Mould seem to

signify the marshy plain to the south of the Dead

Sea. The waters from the three sources above-

mentioned being collected into the small lake, and

further augmented by the numerous land springs in

the Bahr and Ard-el-lluUh, run off towards the

south in one current towards the sea of Tiberias

[TnihiuAS Maui-;], a distance, according to Jo-

sephua, of 120 stadia. They How oil' at the south­

western extremity of this lake, and pa->ing through

a district well described by Joseph us as a great

desert (ttoAAV i^alav. H. ./. iii. 9. § 7), now

called by the natives EUGhor, lose themselves in

the Dead Sea.

Attention has Wn lately called to a peculiar

phenomenon exhibited by this river, the problems

relating to which have Wen solved twice within the

last few years by the enterprise of English and

American sailors. In the spring of the year 1838

a series of barometrical observations by M. Bertou

gave to the Dead Sea a depression of 1374 feet

below the level of the Mediterranean, and to the sea

of Tiberias a depression of 755 feet, thus establish­

ing a fall of 619 feet between the two lakes. At

the close of the same year the observations were

repeated by Russegger, with somewhat different

results-, the depression of the Dead Sea being given

as 1429 feet, the sea of Tiberias 66G feet, and the

consequent fall of the Jordan between the two, 763

feet. Heir von Wildeubrucli repeated the observ­

ations by barometer in 1845. with the following

results;—Depression of the Dead Sea 1446 feet, of

the sea of Tiberias 845 feet, difference 600 feet.

He carried his observations further north, even to

the source at T*U~d-Ka<H, with the following re­

sults:— At Jacob's bridge, about 'i\ miles from the

southern extremity of Bahr //tt/eA, he found the

Jordan 89'9 feet above the Mediterranean; at the

Bahr Huleh 100 feet; and at the source at Tell-eU

Kadi 537 feet; thus giving a fall of 1983 feet in a

direct course of 117 miles:—the most rapid fall

being l**t ween the bridge of Jacob and the sea of

Tiberias, a distance of only 8 miles, in which the

river talis 845 feet, or 116 feet per mile, Itesults

so remarkable did nut find easy credence, although

they were further tested by a trigonometrical

survey, conducted by Lieut. Symonds of the Koyal

Engineers, in 1841, which confirmed the barome­

trical observations for the Dead S-a, but were re­

mark ably at variance with the statement for the sea

of Tiberias, giving to the former a depression of

1312 feet, and to the Utter of 328 feet, and a differ­

ence of level between the two of 984 feet. The

I whole subject is ably treated by Mr. Petrrnunn/a

a paper read before the Geographical Society, ehirii

in answer to the strictures of Dr. liobinsoo, in »coav

tnunicatioumade to the same society.—both rf*ludk

paj>ers were subsequently published in the>uan»H

the society (vol. xviii. part 2. 1848). Ia c«a»»

«]uence of the observations of Dr. Robinvai (Ml

He$. vol. ii. p. 595. n. 4, and vol. iii p. 3U,n.3\

the writer in 1842 followed the coarse th

Jordan from the sea of Tiberias to the sea of /:'-.*.

and found it to be a continuous torrent, ro*. -af

down in a narrow rocky channel between »iam

precipitous mountains. It U well descritrc ry

Ilerr von WiMenbruch. who explored it in IMS. u

a "continuous waterfall " (cited by Petennaui. L fi

p. 103).

The lower Jordan, between the sea of Tib™ m

the Dead Sea, w:us subsequently explored br Lim

Molyneux in 1847. and by an American npeO-M

under Lieut. Lynch in the following vear. The id

lowing extracts from the very graphic accouEi <

Lieut. Molyneux, also contained in tbe number o;Ui

Koyal Geographical Society's Journal (pp. 10*-

123) already referred to, will give the best iAn (

tlie character of this interesting river. hitijert!- 1

little known. Immediately on leaving the sea*iT

bcrias they found the river upwards of 10U

broad and 4 or 5 deep; but on reaching the raw

a bridge, about 2 miles down the stream, they ixs

the passage obstructed by the ruins, and theirs

eulties commenced; for seven hours they setr-s

ever had sufficient water to swim the bia*. 1

100 yards together. In many places the t*i

is split into a number of small streams, and e»«i

quently without much water in any of them, (

casionally the boat bad to be carried upward*

100 yards over rocks and through thorny it a

and in some places they hail hieh, steep. saiiov 13

all along the banks of the river. In other urn

the boat had to be carried on the backs of the cam

the stream being quite impracticable. The o>i

or great valley of the Jordan, is about 8 or 9 b

broad at its upper end; and this space is a»y3

but flat — nothing but a continuation of bur

with yellow dried-up weeds, which look when ca«

like corn stubbles. These hills, howerer, t;cx 1

insignificance when compared, to the ran_-«

the mountains which enclose the Gkor; ami ti

therefore only by comparison that this p«ji >i

Ghor is entitled to be called a valley. Witim 1

broader valley is a smaller one on a lower k

through which the river runs; and its winding an

which is marked by luxurious vegetation, ntwai

a gigantic serpent twisting down the valW.

tortuous is its course, that it would be oust

possible to give any account of its various run

in its way from the lake of Tiberias to tae 1

Sea. A little above Beistm the stream is spaa

by an old curiously formed bridge of three an

still in use, and here the Gkor begins to wear a a

better and more fertile aspect. It apt«s

be composed of two different platforms: tbe -3

one on either side projects from the font *** iJm I

which form the great valley, ami is to±»*nA/T 1

but barren and uncultivated. It then falls

the form of rounded sand-hills, or whitish pa

dicular cliffs, varying from 150 tn 2O0 fe*t n* tic

to the lower plain, which should more prr^»ri

called the valley of the Jordan. The mrr hrti

there washes the foot of the cliffs which *i

smaller valley, but generally it winds in tl*

