KOLA. 443 NOLA.

•iritarinf Opus (Pol. iL 17); thnneh it is most

pkatk that the city already existed from an earlier

'Tba toteneat of Solinus that it was founded

„ tbj Tyrvm is clearly erroneous: perhaps, as

tag,nliil be Xiebuhr, we should read "a Tyrrhenis"

fc-iTrria." (Solin. 2. § 16; Niebnhr, vol. i. p.

Han 133) \Ve hare no account of the manner

■ afccs Xoa afterward* passed into the hands of

at fatcita; bat there can be little doubt that it

ftvaay Minted in this respect the fate of Capua

^Bru];snd it is certain that it was, at the time

Hwlmt wan of the Romans in this part of Italy,

HaspHBU city, occupied by an Oscan people, in

|ea» slate* with the Samnites. (Liv. viii. 23.)

aatiuu ipo intimates clearly that the inhabitants

a si this period, like the Neapolitans, a Greek

faaarh he tells us that tliey were much at-

to the Greeks and their institutions. (Dion vs.

1 p. 2315. B.)

■T probably infer from the above statements,

m originally an Ausonian or Oscan town,

oratly occupied by the Ktruscans, in

It appears to have remained, like Capua,

Was eoaqaered by the Samnites, who subse-

the name of Campanians, about

The evidence in favour of its having

'a Greek colony is very slight, and is

igbed by the contrary testimony of

ell as by the silence of all other Greek

The circumstance that its coins (none of

I of early date) have uniformly Greek in-

(as in the one figured below), may be

mnted for by that attachment to the

is mentioned by Dionysiua as charac-

iiaar.it■ iit*. (Dionys. L c)

aataai of Nola in history occurs in

: before the beginning of the Second

Tar, when the Greek cities of Palaepolis

sa having rashly provoked the hostility of

Nolans sent to their assistance a body of

pa, at the same time that the Samnites

an auxiliary force of twice that amount.

2J-) Bat their efforts were frustrated by

if the Palaepolitans; and the Nolans

■a the city on finding it betrayed into the

a» banana, (/ft. 25, 26.) Nolwithstand-

pawwniion thus given, it was long before

at leisure to avenge themselves on

it was not till B.C. 313 that they laid

Bacjty, which fell into their hands after but

ahaaBca. (Id. is. 28.) It appears certain

annuel fr.Kii this period virtu.diy tobjeet

feaga enjoying, it would seem, the privi-

of an allied city (Liv. xxiii. 44;

aJraaaaamas, p. 127); but we do not meet

easaijuuit notice of it in history till the

ranie War, when it was distinguished for its

feaaBaaBmn cause, and for its successful

t» the arms of Hannibal. That general,

bteawlf master of Capua in b. 0. 216,

tataee Kola in like manner by the co-

af a parry within the walls. Bnt though

pasptt ia the city were ready to invite the

eBaan1, the senate and nobles were

of Borne, and sent in all baste

who threw himself into the

force. Hannibal in consc-

an before the walls; but shortly

Nurrria, he renewed the attempt

sad continued to threaten the city for

mH Marccllua, by a auddeu sally, in-

dieted upon him considerable loss, and led him to

abandon the enterprise (Liv. xxiii. 14—17; Plot.

Marc. 10, 11; Eutrop. iii. 12; Flor. ii. 6. §29.)

The advantage thus obtained, though inconsiderable

in itself, was of importance in restoring the spirits of

the Romans, which had been almost crushed by re­

peated defeats, and was in consequence magnified

into a great victory. (Liv. /. c; Sil. Ital. xii. 270—

280.) The next year (b. c. 215) Hannibal again

attempted to make himself master of Nola, to which

he was encouraged by fresh overtures from the de­

mocratic party within the city; but he was again

anticipated by the vigilance of Marcellus, and, having

encamped in the neighbourhood of the town, with a

view to a more regular siege, was attacked and de­

feated by the Roman general (Liv. xxiii. 39, 42—

46; Plut. Marc. 12.) A third attempt, in the fol­

lowing year, was not more successful; and by these

successive defences the city earned the praise be­

stowed on it by Silius Italicus, who calls it " Poeno

non pervia Nola." (Sil. Ital, viii. 534.)

Nola again bears a conspicuous part in the Social

War. At the outbreak of that contest (n. c. 90) it

was protected, as a place of importance from its

proximity to the Samnite frontier, by a Roman gar­

rison of 2000 men, under the command of the praetor

L. Postumins, but was betrayed into the hands of

the Samnite leader C. Papius, and became from

thenceforth one of the chief strongholds of the Sam­

nites and their allies in this part of Italy. (Liv.

Epit. lxxiii.; Appian, B. C. i. 42.) Thus we find it

in the following year (b. c. 89) affording shelter to

the shattered remains of the army of L. Cluentius,

after its defeat by Sulla (Appian, I. c. 50): and even

afier the greater part of the allied nations had made

peace with Rome, Nola still held out; and a Roman

army was still occupied in the siege of the city, when

the civil war first broke out between Marius and

Sulla. (Veil. Pat. ii. 17,18; Diod. xxxvii. Exc. Phot,

p. 540.) The new turn thus given to affairs for a

while retarded its fall; the Samnites who were de­

fending Nola joined the party of Marius and Cinna;

and it was not till after the final triumph of Sulla,

and the total destruction of the Samnite power, that

the dictator was able to make himself master of tho

refractory city. (Liv. Epit. lxxxix.) We cannot

doubt that it was severely punished: we learn that

its fertile territory was divided by Sulla among his

victorious soldiers (Lib. Colon, p. 236), and the old

inhabitants probably altogether expelled. It is re­

markable that it is termed a Colonia before the out­

break of this war (Liv. Epit. lxxiii.); but this is

probably a mistake. No other author mentions it as

such, and its existence as a municipium, retaining its

own institutions and the use of the Oscan language,

is distinctly attested at a period long subsequent to

the Second Punic War, by a remarkable inscription

still extant. (Mommsen, Unter Ital. Dial. p. 125.) It

afterwards received a second colony under Augustus,

and a third under Vespasian; hence Pliny enumerates

it among the Coloniae of Campania, and we find it in

inscriptions as late as the time of Diocletian, bearing

the titles of " Colonia Felix Augusta Nolana." (Lib.

Colon. I. c; Plin. iii. 5. s. 9; Zumpt, de Colon, pp.

254, 350; Gruter, Inter, p. 473. 9, p. 1085. 14.)

It was at Nola that Augustus died, on his return

from Beneventum, whither he had accompanied

Tiberius, A. D. 14; and from thence to Bovillae his

funeral procession was attended by the senators of

the cities through which it passed. (Suet. Aug. 98;

Dion Cass. lvi. 29,31; Tac. ^nn. i. 5; Veil Pat. ii.

a.

