G54 POMPEII PBAESIDIUM. POMPTI

a sepulchre bearing that name was discovered near

its entrance; a very slight argument, where almost

the whole street is bordered with tombs. In fact,

the approach to the gate of Hereulaueum is bounded

on both sides by rows of tombs or sepulchral mo­

numents, extending with only occasional interruptions

for above 400 yards. Many of them are on a very

considerable scale, both of size and architectural

character; and though they cannot vie with the

enormous mansolea whi< h bonier in a similar manner

the line of the Via Appia near Itome. they derive addi­

tional interest from the perfect state of preservation in

which they remain: and the Street of the Tombs,

as it is commonly called, is perhaps one of the most

interesting scenes at Pompeii The monuments are

for the most part those of persons who had held

magistracies, or other offices, in the city of Pompeii,

and in many cases the site was assigned them by

public authority. U is therefore probable that this

place of sepulture, immediately outside the gate

and on one of the principal approaches to the city,

was regarded as peculiarly honourable.

Besides the tombs and the two villas already no­

ticed, there have been found the remains of shops

anil small houses outside the gate of Herculaneum,

and there would appear to have been on this side of

the city a considerable suburb. This is supposed to

lie the one designated in the sepulchral inscription

of M. Arrius Dion led es as the "Pagiis Augustus

Felix Suburban us." We have as yet no evidence

of the existence of any suburbs outside the other

gates. It is evident that any estimate of the po­

pulation of Pompeii must be very vague and uncer­

tain ; but still from our accurate knowledge of the

space it occupied, as well as the diameter of the

houses, we may arive at something like an approx­

imation, and it seems certain that the population of

the town itself could not have exceeded about

20,000 persona. This is in accordance with the

statements of ancient writers, none of whom would

lead us to regard Pompeii as having lieon more than

a second or third rate provincial town.

The inscriptions found at l'omjieii, which are often

incorrectly given in the ordinary works on the sub­

ject, are carefully edited by Mornm>en. in his In.

scri/ttionrs AV'/hj Xeapolifani ( pp. 1 12—122).

These do not, however, include a clans of much in­

terest, and peculiar to Pompeii, the inscriptions of a

temporary kind which were rudely painted on the

walls, or scratched on the plaster of the houses and

public buildings. It is remarkable that several of

these are in the Oscan dialect, and seem to prove

thai the use of that ancient language must have

continued down to a much later period than is com­

monly supposed. [OsciJ. But the public or

official use of the Oscan seems to have ceased after

the Social War, and the numerous inscriptions of a

public character which belong to the age of Au­

gustus and his successors arc uniformly in the Latin

language. [E. II. B.]

POMPETI PRAESrniUM (Tab. Pent; Pom­

peii, J tin. Ant. p. 134; Ipompei, /tin. Ilieros. p. 566),

a place in Moesia Superior, between Horrcum Margi

and Naistua, identified either with Ktiscknia (liei-

chard) or Btmh>etin (Lapie).

POMPEIO'POLIS (IIo^btjiouVoAis). a town of

Paphlagonia, on the southern bank of the river Am-

nias, a tributary of the Hairs (Strab. xii. p. 562;

Stepb. B. x. v.). Its name seems to indicate that it

was founded by Potnpey the Great. In the Itine­

raries it is marked as 27 miles from Siuopc; accord­

ing to which its site n

of the Amnias, about t

Captain Kinneir (p. *

mains. In the vicini

mine of the mineral

/. c.) Pompeiopolis is (

as an episcopal see of Pi

Uierocl. p. 695; Cor

Justinian, Xonll. xxis

The name Pompeioj

several towns, such as

Eupatorla in Capped

in Tarraconensian Spai

PO'MPELO (Hon*

iii. p. 161, who makes

irTjuJiroAis), the chief

pania Tarraconensia, o

Burdigala (/tin. Ant.

pendiaria in the jur

(1'lin. iii. 3. s. 4.) N<

POMPON IA XA.

poniana is the same as

Stoechades or Xslss o? I

lie close to the, French

ville, following the Mai

Poinponiana between

Caccabaria [Hkraclh

is the peninsula of Gi

western point of Prote |

em of the Stocchades.

of Giens which is on tl

by a lagune, from wh»

sea on both sides, so th

sidered as an island.

POMPONIA'NIS ]

PONIANI9.]

POMPTTNAE PA)

Paludi Pontine) was tl

tract of marshy gronnd

foot of the Volscian m

neighbourhood of CisU

They occupy a space ol

7Of S in breadth: and

the W. by a broad traci

forest, which is also pt

with marshy spots, and

water, so that it is i

regular marsh, and th

prised under the name*

extremely low level of

scarcely any natural c

descend into it from I

gether with the accumi

shore from Actum U

readily accounts for the

marshes; and there cai

of this low alluvial ti

compared with the rest

Still there is the stn

considerations to rejec

entertained by the Kor

that the whole of th

place within the period

idea seems indeed to ha

from the assumption I

the island of Circe me

therefore in the time of

the midst of the oper

But it is far more strai

on the authority of T

imitation had taken pi

