366 MOERIS LACUS. MOERIS LACUS.

king of the same name. This supposition is in­

credible, and runs counter both to local tradition

and actual observation. "Nothing," says a modern

traveller (Browne, Travels in Egypt, p. 169), "can

present an appearance so unlike the works of men.

On the NK. and S. is a rocky ridge, in even' ap­

pearance primeval ;r and Strabo (xvii. p. 112) ob­

serve.* upon the marine confirmation of its shores

and the billowy colour and motion of its waters.

So far as it lias been hitherto surveyed, indeed,

Moeris is known to have been inclosed by ele­

vated lands; and, in early times, the bed of the

Nile was too low to admit of its waters flowing

into the basin of the lake, even if there had been

a natural communication between the river and

Moeris. Strabo believed it to be altogether a

natural reservoir, and that the canal which con­

nected it with the Nile was alone the work of human

art. His opinion is doubtless the correct one, but

admits perhaps of some modification. The whole

of the Arsinoite nome was indebted to human enter­

prise for much of its extent and fertility. Geologi­

cally speaking, it was, in remote periods, a vast

limestone valley, the reservoir of waters descending

from the encompassing hills, and probably, if con­

nected with the Nile at all, the coiumuniciiion was

subterraneous. As the accumulated waters gradually

subsided, the summits and sides of the higher

ground were cultivated. The richness of the soil—

a deposit of clay and muriate of lime, like that of

the Oasts—would induce its occupiers in every age

to rescue the land from the lake, and to run duuis

and embankments into the water. In the dry

season, therefore, Moeris would exhibit the spectacle

of a body of water intersected by peninsulas, and

broken by islands, while, at the period of inundation,

it would wear the aspect of a v:ist basin. Ac­

cordingly, the accounts of eye-witnesses, such as

were Strabo and Herodotus, would vary according

to the season of the year in which they inspected

ir. Moreover, there are grounds for supposing that

ancient travellers did not always distinguish between

the connecting canal, the bahr~Juxuj\ and Moeris

itself. The cmal was unciue.stioiubly constructed

by man's labour, nor would it present any insupc-

rab v ditlicultics to a people so laborious as the

Aegyptians. There was also a further motive for

redeeming the Mocriote district generally, for the

lands opposite to it, on the eastern bank of the Nile,

were generally barren, bein^ either a sandy level

or stone quarries, while the soil of the Arsinoite

nome was singularly fertile, and suited to various

crops, corn, vegetables, and fruit. It' then we dis­

tinguish, as Strabo did, the canal (5i(£pu{) from the

lake (Af/xyij), the ancient narratives may be easily

reconciled with one another and with modern surveys.

Even the words of Herodotus (St* Si x**?0*0''/1"^1

ion kqX bpvKT-rj) may apply to the canal, which

was of considerable extent, beginning at Hcnnopolis

(Adununecn), and running 4 leagues \V., and then

turning from K. to S. for 3 leagues more, until

it reaches the lake. Modern writers frequently

reproach the ancient* with assigning an incredible

extent to the lake; and some of them surmise that

Herodotus and Strabo do not speak of the same

waters. But the moderns Itave mostly restricted

themselves to the canal, and have either not explored!

Moeris itself, the NW shores of which are scarcely j

known, or have not made allowance for its dimi- {

nut ion by the encroaching sands and the detritus!

of (alien embankment* I

We infer, therefore, that the lake Moeris is t

natural lake, about the size of th:»t of Orwra. *>i

was originally a depression of the limestone i4s!r»a.

which intersects in this latitude the rallry of the

Nile. Even in its diminished extent it is still at

least 30 miles long, nnd 7 broad. Its din"rt>si

is from SW. to NK.( with a considerable curve -r

elbow to the E. The present level of its surface is

nearly the same with that of the Mediterranean,

with which indeed, according to a tradition ment>xi*d

by Herodotus, it was connected by a subterranean

outlet into the Syrtes. If the lake", indeed, enr

discharged any portion of its waters into the ki,

it must have been in pre-historic times.

The waters of Moeris are impregnated with tht

alkaline salts of the neighbouring desert, and will

the depositions—muriate of lime — of the «r-

rounding hills. But, although brackish, they are n*4

so saline as to be noxious to fish or to the crocoJ.l*,

which in ancient times were kept in preserve*, and

tamed by the priests of the Arsinoite nome. (Strife,

xvii. p. 112; Aelian, J fist. A. x~ 24.) The fish­

eries of the lake, especially at the point where the

sluices regulated the influx of the Bakr-Jmsuf, were

very productive. The revenue derived from thru

was, in the Pharaonic era, applied to the parrhsat

of the queen's wardrobe and jierfumes*. l"iv>r '.*■#

Persian kings they yielded, during the *ea*i4i of

inundation, when the canal fed the lake, a talent of

silver daily to the royal treasury (150/.) Ihirir^

the rest of the year, when the waters ebbed towanli

the Nile, the rent was 30 minae, or GO/., daily. Is

modern times the right of fishing in the lirrbtt-ft-

Ktrun has been farmed for 13 purses, or about $4/.,

yearly. (Laborde. He cue Fran^aist, 1829. p. 67.)

It is probable, indeed, that a copious infusion uf Nile

water is required to render that of Moeris pslstahis

to man, or salutary for list).

To Thoutmosis III. the Aegyptians were pro­

bably indebted for the canal which connected the

lake of Moeris with the Nile. It may haw been,

in part, a natural channel, but its dykes and em­

bankments were constructed and kept hi repair by

man. There is, indeed, some difficulty respectm?

the influx and reflux of the water, since the level of

the liahr-Jusuf is much higher than tliat of the

Arsinoite nome and the lake; and Herodotus seems

to say (ii. 149) that the waters returned by the

same channel by which they eutered Moeris. As

mention is made, however, of sluices at their prat

of Junction, it is possible that a series of Aoodj^at**

retained or impelled the water. The main dyke

ran between the Memphite and Arsinoite mime*.

Belzoni found remains of ancient cities on lbs

western side of Moeris, and is disposed to place t**

Great Labyrinth in that quarter. But if w« torn?

trust the accounts of the best ancient writers, it

certainly was not on that side of the lake. Its

shores and islands were, however, covered with

buildings. Of the ruins of Arsinoe mem ■« has

been made already, lint Herodotus tells an extra­

ordinary story of pyramids seated in the lake it**./

(/. c):—** About the middle of it are two pyramal*.

each rising 300 feet above the water; thai part

that is under the water is just the same 1m :*bt tn

the top of each is a colossus of st*>ne sntvd i» a

chair.** This account is singular, as implying that

pyramidal buildings were sometimes employed as

the lu>es of statues. Hut it is impomibie to re­

concile this statement with the ascertained d«*j<h vt

the litritt tl-Kc, tin, which uu an average tkra

