MAGNA GRAECIA. 251 MAGNA GRAECIA.

There can be no doubt that the cities of Magna

Grama liad suffered severely during these wars: the

foreign troops placed within their walls, whether

Roman or Greek, appear to have given way to simi­

lar excesses; and the garrisons of Pyrrhus at Locri

and Tarentum were guilty of exactions and cruelties

which aimerst rivalled those of the Campanians at

Rhegium. In addition to the loss of their indepen-

drnre, therefore, it is certain that the war of Pyrrhus

inflicted a mortal blow on the prosperity of the few

Gnvk cities in Southern Italy which had survived

their long-continued struggles with the Lucaiuans

and Rmttiaiu. The decayed and enfeebled con­

dition of the once powerful Crotona (Liv. xxiii. 30)

was undoubtedly common to many of her neighbours

and farmer rivals. There were, however, some ex­

cretions; Ueraclea especially, which had earned the

favour of Home by a timely submission, obtained a

treaty of alliance on unusually favourable terms

(Cic. pro Bulb. 22). and seems to have continued

in a flourishing condition.

But the final blow to the prosperity of Magna

Graecia was inflicted by the Second Punic War. It

m probable that the Greek cities were viewed with

uiifavourable eyes by the Roman government, and

were naturally desirous to recover their lost inde­

pendence. Hence they eagerly seized the opportu­

nity afforded by the victories of Hannibal, and after

the battle of Cannae we are told that almost all the

Greek cities on 'the S. coast of Italy (Graecorum

omttU Jerme ora, Liv. xxii. 61) declared in favour

of the Carthaginian cause. Some of these were,

Inaever, overawed by Roman garrisons, which re-

atrained them from open defection. Tarentum itself

(still apparently the most powerful city in this part

of Italy) was among the number; and though the

city ittelf was betrayed into the hands of the Car­

thaginian commander, the citadel was still retained

hj a Roman garrison, which maintained its footing

•until the city was recovered by Fabius, u. c. 209.

(Liv. xxv. 8—11, xxvii. 15, 16.) Tarentum was

on this occasion treated like a captured city, and

plundered without mercy, while the citizens were

either put to the sword or sold as slaves. Meta-

pontuni was only saved from a similar fate by the

rercnral of its inhabitants and their property, when

Hannibal was compelled to abandon the town ; and

at a later period tf the war Terina was utterly

destroyed by the Carthaginian general. (Liv. xxvii.

51; Strab. vi. 256.) Locri and Crotona were taken

and retaken: Rhegium alone, which maintained its

fidelity to Rime inviolate, though several times

attempted by a Carthaginian force, seems to have

in great measure escaped the ravages of the war.

It is certain that the cities of Magna Graecia

r-rrer recovered from this long series of calamities.

We have very little information as to their condition

nndcB* the government of the Roman Republic, or the

T«rtkular regulations to which they were subjected.

But it ia probable that, until after the complete

KiLjogation of Greece and Macedonia, they were

inked upon with a jealous eye as the natural allies

of U>fir kinsmen beyond the seas (Liv. xxxi. 7);

and even the colonics, whether of Roman or Latin

ritizena, which were settled on the coasts of South­

ern Italy, were probably designed rather to keep

d>wn the previous inhabitants than to recruit the

exhausted population. One of these colonies, that

to Paidonia. now- known as Paestum, had been

established At ft period as early as «. c. 273 (Liv.

EpiL liv.; VelL Pat. i. 14); and Brunduaium,

which subsequently rose to be so important a city,

was also settled before the Second Punic War, b. c.

244. (Veil. Pat /. c.; Liv. EpiL xix.) But, with

these exceptions, all the Roman colonies to the coasts

of Lucania, Bruttium, and Calabria, date from the

period subsequent to that war. Of these, Buxeutum

in Lucania and Tempsa in Bruttium were settled

as early as b. c. 194 ; and in the same year a body

of Roman colonists was established in the once

mighty Crotona. (Liv. xxxiv. 47.) Shortly after­

wards two other colonies were settled, one at Thurii

in Lucania, in b. c. 193, and the other at Hippo-

nium or Vibo, in Bruttium, b. c. 192. (Liv. xxxiv.

53, xxxv. 9, 40.) The last of these, which under

the name of Vibo Valentia became a flourishing and

important town, was the only one of these colonies

which appears to have risen to any considerable

prosperity. At a much Inter period (b. c. 123), the

two colonies sent to Scylacium and Tarentum, under

the names of Colonia Minervia and Keptunia (Veil.

Pat. i. 15), were probably designed as an attempt to

recruit the sinking population of those places.

But all attempts to check the rapid decline of this

part of Italy were obviously unsuccessful. It is pro­

bable, or indeed almost certain, that malaria began to

make itself severely felt as soon as the population

diminished. This is noticed by Strabo in the ea>e of

Posidonia (v. p. 251); and the same tiling must

have occurred along the shores of the Tarentine

gulf. Indeed, Strabo himself tells us, that, of the

cities of Magna Graecia which had been so famous

in ancient times, the only ones that retained any

traces of their Greek civilisation in his day were

Rhegium, Tarentum, and Neapolis (vi. p. 253);

while the great Achaean cities on the Tarentine

gulf had almost entirely disappeared, (lb. p. 262.)

The expressions of Cicero are not less forcible, that

Magna Graecia, which had been so flourishing in the

days of Pythagoras, and abounded in great and opu­

lent cities, was in his time sunk into utter ruin

(nunc quidem deletn est, Cic. de Amic. 4, Tusc. iv.

1). Several of the towns which still existed in the

days of Cicero, as Mttapontum, Heraclea, and Locri,

gradually fell into utter insignificance, and totally

disappeared, while Tarentum, Crotona, and a few

others maintained a sickly and feeble existence

through the middle ages down to the present time.

It has been already observed, that the name of

Magna Graecia was never a territorial designation;

nor did the cities which composed it ever constitute

a political unity. In the earliest times, indeed, the

difference of their origin and race must have effec­

tually prevented the formation of any such union

among them as a whole. But even the Achaean

cities appear to have formed no political league or

union among themselves, until after the troubles

growing out of the expulsion of the Pythagoreans, on

which occasion they are said to have applied to the

Achaeans in Greece for their arbitration, and to have

founded by their advice a temple of Zeus Homorius,

where they were to hold councils to deliberate upon

their common affairs and interests. (Pol. ii. 39.)

A more comprehensive league was formed in

b. c. 393, for mutual protection against the attacks

of Dionysus on one side, and the Lucanians on the

other (Diod. xiv. 91) ; and the cities which com­

posed it must have had some kind of genera) council

or place of meeting. It is probable that it was on

this occasion that the general meetings of tho

Italian Greeks, alluded to by Strabo (vi. p. 280),

were first instituted : though it is highly improbable

