926 SAXETAXUM. SCAMAKDEK.

situated 9 miles from Koine, on the Via Flamiiria.

(Plin. xv. 30. 8. 40; Suet. Galb. 1.) [K. H. B.]

SAXETANUM, a place in Hispania Baetica

(Itin. AnL p. 405), culled Sex (2U£) by Ptolemy

(ii. 4. § 7). Hexi by Mela (ii. 6), and by I'liny (iiL

3) Sexti Finnum Julium. It is the 'Z^iTavCiv

■w6\is of Strabo (iii. p. 156). On the name see

Casaubon (ad Strab. i. p. 50), and Tzschuek (ad

Melam, vol. ii. pt 2. p. 447). It was renowned for

its salt-fish. (Strab. iii. p. 156; Athen. iii. p. 121;

Tlin. xxxii. 11. a. 53; Mart. vii. 78, &c.) Now

most probably MotriL (Cf. Florez, Etp. Sagr. xii.

p. 101.) [T.H. D.]

SA'XONES (2,d£ovfs; Saxons'), a German tribe,

which, though it acted a very promineut part about

the beginning and during the early part of the

middle ages, yet is not even mentioned in ancient

history previous to a. l>. 287. In that year, we are

told by Eutropius (vii. 13; com p. Oros. vii. 25), the

Stxona and Franks infested the coasts of Arraorica

and Belgica, the protection of which was intrusted

to Caruusius. The fact that Pliny and Tacitus do

not mention them in the country in which we after­

wards find them, does not prove that they did not

exist there in the time of those writers. For the

inhabitants of the Cimbriau Chersouesus, where

subsequently we find the Saxons, are mentioned by

those writers only under the general appellation of

the Cimbri, without noticing any special tribes under

separate names. Ptolemy (ii. 11. § 11; comp. Steph.

B. a. v.) is the first authority describing the ha­

bitations of the Saxons, and according to htm they

occupied the narrow neck of the Cimbrian Cherso-

nesus, between the river Albis (Elbe) and Chalusus

(Trave), that is, the country now called llolstein.

Their neighbours on the south of the Albis were the

Chauci, in the east the Suardones, and in the north

the Singulones, Ajngli, and other smaller tribes of

the peninsula. But besides this portion of the

continent, the Saxons also occupied three islands,

called " Saxon islands," off the coast of Hulstrin

(Sc^oWv fj}<to<, Ptol. ii. II. § 31), one of which

was no doubt the modern Helgoland; the two others

must either be supjwsed to have been swallowed

up by the sea, or be identified with the islands of

Dyckumd and Vielschovtl, which are nearer the

coast than Helgoland.

The name Saxones is commonly derived from

Saks or Sachs, a battle knife, but others connect it

with seax (earth) or seat, according to which Saxons

would describe the people as living in fixed seats or

habitations, as opposed to the free or wandering

Franks. The former, however, is the more probable

origin of the name; for the living in fixed habitations

was certainly not a characteristic mark of the ancient

Saxons.

They appear to have gradually spread along the

north-western coast of Germany, and to have gained

possession of a large extent of country, which the

Ravenna Geographer (iv. 17, 18, 23) calls by the

name of Saxon ia, but which WU certainly not in-

habited by Saxons exclusively In a. i>. 371 the

SaXOUa, in ouo of their usual ravaging excursions on

the coasts of Gaul, were surrounded and cut to

pieces by the Roman army under Valentinian (Oros.

vii. 32; Arum. Marc, xxviii. 2, 5; comp. xwi. 4,

xxvii. 8; ZoBUD. iii. 1, G); and about the middle of

the fifth century a band of Saxons led by Hen gist

and llorsa crossed over Into Britain, which had been

completely given up by the Romans, and now fell

into the hands of the roving Saxons, who in con-

nection with other German tribes penmontiy ess*

blished themselves in Britain, and tint ami**!

the great features of their national character. (Beit,

But Eccles. i. 12). As the Ramans omr mM

the original country of the Ssxoos, we ka* rf a>

towns or places in it, with the exeqrtioe perbpef

the town of Treva (Tfrrjvva) mentioned by htauf

(ii. 11. §27). Besides tbr« already roraUonai'

are but few passages in ancient writers is »furh lb

Saxons are mentioned, such as Marrian,p.W;C»at

de Laud. StiL ii. 255; Sidon. ApolL iii. 90.

Among modern writers the reader nuyooGsnltEsnnV

De Sttxonum Origins, Berlin, 1830,8»a, sod tat'

works on the early history of England ud Ge>

manv. [L a]

SA'XONUM TNSULAE. [SAXoro.]

SCAIDA'VA, a town in Moeaia Infenor.tew

Novae ami Trimammium. Ittm. AnL p. 221) I

is called Scedeba (5**3»6a) by Procojini .y Ji

iv. 11). Varionsly identified with Sakmm fl

RustschucL [T.H. a]

SCA'LABIS, a town of Lnsitania, on tta ■

from Olisipo to KmeriU and Bracara. (Jak ii

pp. 420, 421.) Pliny (iv. 21. a. 35)e»lk*al

man colony, with the surname Praesidiom Ja&i

and the seat of one of the three "coaTtanaji

did" of Lusitania. It is undoubtedly tat «

place which Ptolemy (ii. 5. § 7) amaaavl?!

2ria\a€i<TKo?t which is probably a corra)M

2«aAa^i$ koA. (fcoAwria) The modern

(Cf. Wesseting, ad /tin. L c; Isidor. de Fir.

44; Flore*, Esp. Sagr. xiii. p. 69.) [T. K.

SCALDIS (Schelde, Escort) a river is

Gallia. Caesar (B. G. vL 33 \ the first wrin

mentions the Scald is, says, when he was pi

Ambiorix, that he determined to go "at ntf »

Scaldis which flows into the Mosa (Jfaai)

extremity of the Arduenna " (Ardinmnt). it

MSS. quoted by Schneider (B. G. ri. 33) 1

reading "Scaldein," "Schaidem," •Scakiim."

other trifling varieties, except one MS.

"Sambim;" so that, as Schneider

cannot doubt tliat Caesar wrote ■ Scald it

passage. Pliny (ir. 17) describe* the

the boundary between the Gallic and

nations, and says nothing of its on too

Moan: "A Scalde ad Sequanam Belgiea;*n

Scaldi incolunt extera Toxandri ploriboj oasm

Some geographers suppose that the Tabi

Ptolemy is the Scheide. [ 1 .viu i' \.

The passage of Caesar is most eaairy -i:

by supposing that he knew nothing of tat

course of the Schtlde, and only reportfrf d

heard. It is possible that the East

once the chief outlet of the SeJuid*. and it

had some communication with the

the islands between the East Sckemir and 1

course of the Mesa, which oocncnunksuua i

exists. There is at least no reason for U

place of "Scaldim" or "ScaUem," th»

"Sabin" (2a£if)T from the Greek

Commentaries.

The Schchle rises in France, in the

of Aisne, Below Anhrerp it enters tiw #■*]

two a estuaries, the Uimd or West Sehskm

East Sckelde. [I

SCAMANDER (XcAWJper: Memisn

the river of Bwuirbusckiy, s fanwas attlr

in the plain of Troy, which accordiBC »

(//. xx. 74) waa called Xanthua by th» g

Scainandcr by men j though it piubaMy «l

