728 ROMA.

ROMA.

Novam VUn (habitavit)." The site of the tem­

ple of Jupiter Stater roar tlie Summa Sacra Via

is sufficiently certain without adopting the proof

adduced by flecker from the equestrian statue of

Cloelia, the history of which he completely misunder­

stands. The passage from Pliny (xxxiv. 13) which

lie quotes (note 156) relates to another and appa­

rently a rival statue of Valeria, the daughter of

Publico!*, who disputed with Cloelia the honour of

having swum the Tiber, and esea]»ed from the cus­

tody of Porscna. Indeed, the two rival legends seem

to have created some confusion anion}; the ancients

themselves; and it was a disputed point in the

time of Plat&rch whether the dinting statue was

that of Cloelia or Valeria. (I'upl. 19.) Becker

confounds these two statues, and a&serts (note 155)

that Pliny, its well as Dionysius, speaks of the

statue of Cloelia as no longer existing in his time.

But Pliny, on the contrary, in the very chapter

quoted, mentions it as still in being: "Cloeliae

etiam statua est equestris." It was the statue of

Valeria that had disappeared, if indeed it had

ever existed except in the account of Aunius

Fetialis. Pliny, therefore, must share the cas-

tigation bestowed by Becker on Plutarch and

Servius for their careless topography: whose

assertion as to the existence of the statue in their

time he will not believe, though the latter says

he had seen it with his own eyes (ad Aeti. viii.

640). The only ground which Becker has for so

peremptorily contradicting these three respectable

authorities is a passage, in Dionysina (v. 35); who,

however, only says that when he was at Koine the

statue no longer stood in its place (ratT^y vj/acis

fiii' oi/K £ti K(ifi(V7}v tu^ojuev). and that on inquiry

he was told that it had been destroyed (JiipaviaQii)

in a tire that had raged among the surrounding

houses. But Dionysius may have k*en misinformed;

or perhaps ytyaviaQt] is to be taken in its literal

sense, and the statue was only removed for a while

out of sight. We may assume, therefore, that it had

been restored to its original position in the period

which elapsed between Dionysius and Pliny, and

that it continued to adorn the Suimiia Sacra Via fur

some centuries after the time of the former writer.

The preceding passages abundantly establish the

site ot' the Porta Uugiotifc at that spot of the Pala­

tine which faces the Summa Sacra Via, or present

arch of Titus; nor does it seem necessary, by way

of further proof, to resort to the far-fetched argument

adduced by Becker from the nature of the ground

(Ilaudb. p. 113), namely, that this is the only spot

on the NE. face of the hill which offers a natural

ascent, by the road (Via Fuhxriera) leading up to

the Convent of 6". Uumireutura. That road, indeed,

has all the appearance of being an artificial rather

than a natural ascent, and may have been made

centuries afier the time of Romulus. Unfortunately,

too, for Becker's round assertion on this subject

(Handb, p. 109), that we must ab initio embrace as

an incontrovertible principle that gates are to be

sought only where the hill offers natural ascents, we

find that the only other known gate, the Porta Ro-

manula, was, on his own showing, accessible only by

means of steps. For the situation of this gate Varro

is again our principal authority. We have seen in

the passage before quoted from that author that it

opened into the Nova Via, near the Sacellum Vo-

lupiae, by means of steps. Varro again alludes to it

in the following passage: 4t Hoc sacriiiciuin (to

Area harentia) tit in Velabro, qua in Novam Viam

exitur, ut aiunt quidam, ad sepukrum Areas, at

quod ibi prope faciunt Diis Mawbus Servilibto ta»

dotes; qui uterque locus extra urbem antrum fat

non longe a Porta Romanuls, de qua in prwc*Ba)

dixi." (L. L. ti. § 24, Mull.) Tbe sue rf tit

Sacellum Volupiae cannot be determined; bot As

Velabrum is one of the most certain spots in Imm

topography, and is still indicated br tbe cheat

which hears its name, S. Giorgio m FcZo***.

learn from both these passages of Varro—f* San

ligcr's emendation of Nova Via for S'jvilia Mm

former is incontestable — the exact site of ti*M

Romanula; for as t he sacritue alluded to ws ai

formed in the Velabrum near tb* spot*tati

Nova Via entered it, and as the 1*. Riinantlinsl

far from this place, it follows that it must hart*]

at the lower end of the street or in the tajiauX

Via. Varru's account is confirmed by FoOJ

262, Mull.), who, however, calls the pate

instead of Romanula: "Sed porta Romans iadl

est a Komulo intimo clivo Victorias, qui kxat|

dibus in quadram f.-nnatns e>t: appelUU mt

liomana a Sabinis praecijiue, quod ea pr.answi

tus erat Romain." Here the same steps in*»Ji

to that are mentioned by Varro. Tbe CItbsI

toriae was that part of the NW. declivitf afj

Palatine which overhung the Nova Via. It *■

named either from a temple of Victory seatedea

top uf the hill (*' in aedem Victoriae, quae estiaj

latio, pertulere deam," Liv. xxlx. 1 4). or nwn

bably — as this temple was not dedicated ■ L

stuinius till b. c. 2'J5—from an ancient £rv«.ai

to Victory, on this side of the Palati&e. »*sr

Lupercal (Dionys. i. 32), the tradition of ei

though the grove itself had long disappeared,

bably led to the temple being founded then.

The Komulean city must undoubtedly haet

at least a third gate, both from the lesUDfl

Pliny and because it cannot be supposed that 1

maining two sides were without an exit; bet

is no authority to decide where it lay. Beckers'

that it was seated at the southernmost poio: otfthi

but this, though probable enough,is LOthinf nfl

a conjecture. The Porta JanualLs the third gsttfl

tioned by Varro, was most probably as old asdafl

of Romulus, though it certainly never beloogsifl

Palatine city. Its situation and true nature eS

discussed presently. We find, howeTer, a r*!sea

Ferentina mentioned by Plutarch (Rnn. 30)M

relates that Romulus, after the murder of TM

which was followed by visible signs of the mm

anirer, purified Rome and Laurentnm by rite**,

stilt continued to be observed at that (fate. W

find an account in Festus (p. 213) ot a iVcta P%l

ris, which was so called "propter aliqca |

quae ibidem fiebant;" and some have a=a-aa

MUller, ad Fest. I c.) that these two paaaj

identical. It is well known that the Rj naat)

had sometimes two names; and this <ictatl

probable in the case of those which had sueae

gioua ceremony connected with tbetn. 1

(Handb. p. 177) rejects, however, with seal

like indignation the idea that such a cmnt

have belonged to the Komulean city, and tjbM

fore either place it in the Lucns Keren taaa*. ex

the text of Plutarch, his u>ual expedient. J

gether, however, it doc» not seem quite so icanaa

that it may have been the third and misuse M

Romulus, since its name indicates its aiteafaj

S. extremity of the Palatine, just where wed

want of one.

