TEMHSA. TENEA. 1125

in Tempe. This Longinus appears to

ivc been the L- Cassiua Long in us who was sent

y Cicur from Ulyria into Thessaly. (Caes. B. C.

... M ) When Xerxes invaded Greece, n. c. 480,

be Greeks «nt a force of 10,000 men to Teinpe, with

tx intention of defending the pass against the Rer­

an); but having learnt from Alexander, the king

; Hiredonia, that there was another pass across

It Olympus, which entered Thessaly near Gonnus,

a*n the gorge of Tempe commenced, the Greeks

itbdrrw to Thermopylae. (Herod, vii. 173.)

It was believed by the ancient historians and geo-

ru| lwni that the gorge of Tempe had been pro-

itpj by an earthquake, which rent asunder the

oonlauiB, and afforded the waters of the Reneius an

yrm te the sea. (Herod, vii. 129; Strab. ix.

430.) But the Theliums maintained that it was

• c«l Poseidon who had eplit the mountains

Ural. Lc); while others supposed that this had

er. the work of Hercules. (Died, iv. 58; Lucan,

345.)

The pass of Tempe was connected with the wor-

.p«t Apollo. This god was believed to have gone

lier to receive expiation after the slaughter of

i KTprnl I'ytho, and afterwards to have returned

Delphi, bearing in his liand a branch of laurel

ickei in the valley. Every ninth year the Del-

am sent a procession to Tempe consisting of well-

ti youths, of which the chief youth plucked a

inch of laurel and brought it back to Delphi. On

i ixssion a. solemn festival, in which the inha-

*riLA of the neighbouring regions took joirt, was  
rotated at Tempe in honour of Apollo Tetnpeites.

r (-rtx-eMioii was accompanied by a flute-player.

*I»an, V.U. iii. 1; Plut. QuaesL Grace c 11.  
WJ, «b Murica, c. 14. p. 1136; Uockh, fnscr.

■ 1767, quoted by Grote, I/ist. of Greece, vol. ii.

fci)

The name of Tempe was applied to other beautiful

Thus ll»e valley, through which the He-

it flows id Sicily, at called "Heloria Teuijw"

r. /oil iv. 477); and Cicero gives the name of

u« to tlie valley of the Velinus, near Reate (ad

- tv, 15). In the same way Ovid speaks of the  
e,«rooi* Tempe** (Am. i. 1. 15).

U\ke, Surthern Greece, vol. iii. p. 390, seq.;

IwcD, voi. ii. p. 109, seq.; Hawkins, in Walpole's

vrfto% vol. i. p. 517, seq.; Kriegk, Dot Tkesta-

\» Trmpc, Leipzig, 1835.)

> KM PSA. [Tkmesa.]

rtMPYHA (Ov. Trut. i. 10. 21; in Geogr. Rav.

Tympira; iu It. Ant. p. 322, Timpirum; and

t-ltitr. p. 602. Ad Uniinpara), n town in the S.

IKmce. on the Kgnatian Way, between Trajano-

i ir»i M»xiimannpolis. It was situated in a de-

».*iirli rendered it a convenient spot for the

■ationa of the predatory tribes in its neigh bour-

i. Here the Thrausi attacked the Roman army

■ r Cn. Man!ins, on its return, loaded with booty,

i-jii Thrace from Asia Minor (n. c. 1B8); but

**Dt of shelter ex potted their movements to the  
lans, who were thus enabled to defeat them.

xxxviii. 41.) The defile in question is pro-

y the Mine as the KaynriAtw artva mentioned

Vffaan (fl. C. iv. 102), and through which, he

r»T Brut on and CasMus marched on their way

'bilipf* (Tafel, de Viae Egnatiac Parte orient.

M> P»ul Lucas (Trots Yog. pp. 25, 27)

rds it a* corresponding to the modern Gur-

[J. R.]

fK NCTERI or TE'XCHTEKl (Teyartpoi,

TryiCTTjpui, Try»c«po.( and Taryxp'*" orTa^ap*?a.),

an important German tribe, which is first mentioned

by Caesar (B. G. iv. 1, 4). They appear, together

with the Usipetes, originally to have occupied a

district in the interior of Germany ; but on being

driven from their original homes by the Suevi, and

having wandered about for a period of three years,

they arrived on the banks of the Lower Rhiic, and

compelled the Mens pi i who inhabited both sides of

the river to retreat to the western bank. Some time

after this, the Germans even crossed the Rhine, esta­

blished themselveson the western bank, in the country

of the Menapii, and spread in all directions as far as

the districts of the Eburones and Condrusi, who seem

to have invited their assistance against the Romans.

This happened in B.C. 56. The Germans demanded

to be allowed to settle in Gaul; but Caesar, declar­

ing that there was no room for them, promised

to procure habitations for them in the country of

the Ubii, who happened to have sent ambassadors

to him at that time. The Germans asked fur three

days to consider the matter, requesting Caesar not

to advance farther into their country. But, res­

pecting some treacherous design, he proceeded on

his march, and an engagement ensued, in which

the Romans were defeated and sustained serious

losses. On the following day the chiefs of the

Germans appeared before Caesar, declaring that

their people had attacked the Romans without

their orders, and again begged Caesar to stop his

march. Caesar, however, not only kept the chiefs

as his prisoners, but immediately ordered an attack

to be made on their camp. The people, who during

the absence of their chiefs had abandoned themselves

to the feeling of security, were thrown into the great­

est confusion by the unsuspected attack. The men,

however, fought on and among their waggons, while

the women and children took to flight. The Roman

cavalry pursued the fugitives; and when the Ger­

mans heard the screams of their wives and children,

and saw them cut to pieces, they threw away their

anus and fled towards the Rhine; but as the river

stopped their flight, a great number of them perished

by the sword of the Romans, and others were

drowned in the Rhine. Those who escaped acrtpss

the river were hospitably received by the Sigambri,

who assigned to the Tencteri the district between

the Ruhr and the Sitg. (Caes. B. G. iv. 4—16;

Livy, Epit. lib. rxxxviii.; Tac. Germ. 32, 33, Ann.

xiii. 56, Hist iv. 21,64, 77; Plut. Caes. 21;

Dion Cass, xxxix. 47, lit. 20, 21; Flor. iii. Id.

iv. 12 ; Or os. iv. 20; A apian, de Reb. Gall 4, 18;

Ptol. ii. II. § 8.) The Tencteri were particularly

celebrated for their excellent cavalry; and iu their

new country, on the eastern bank of the Rhine, they

possessed the town of Budaris (either Sfotifteim or

]>uaeldurf), and the fort of Divitia (Deutz). In

the reign of Augustus, the Tencteri joined the con­

federacy of the Cherusci (Liv. L c), and afterwards

repeatedly appear joining other tribes in their wars

against Rome, until in the end they appear as a part

of the great confederacy of the Franks. (Greg.

Tur. ii. 9 ; com p. Wilhelm, Germanien, p. 141;

Reich a rd, Germanien, p. 31; Latham, Tacit Germ.

p. 110.) [L.S.]

TE'NEA (Ttvta: Elh. T«r«d>7)>), the most im­

portant place in the Corinlhia after the city of Co­

rinth and her port towns, was situated south of the

capita), and at the distance of 60 stadia from the

Utter, according to Pausanias. The southern pat.

of Corinth was called the Teneatic, from iu leading t»

4 c 3

