250 MAGXA GRAECIA. MAGNA GRAECIA.

rising colony of Thurii at an early period of its

existence (Polyaen- ii. 10); bat ii wis not till after

400 b. c that their power assumed a formidable

aspect tawards the Greeks in general. The terri­

tory of Thurii was the first object of their hos­

tilities, bat the other cities were not insensible to

their danger; and hence the general league of the

Italian Greeks in u. c. 393, as already mentioned,

was directed as much against the Lucanians as

against Dionysius. Unfortunately, their arms met

with equal ill success in both quarters : and in

». c. 3U0 the confederate forces were defeated by

the Lucaniaas with greit slaughter near I.aus.

(Diod. xiv. 101, 102; Strain vi. p. 253.) That

city had already fallen into the hands of the in­

vaders, who now pressed on towards the south, and

seem to have spread themselves with great rapidity

throughout the whole of the Brutlian peninsula. Here

they l>ecame so formidable that the younger Dionysus

was compelled to abandon the policy of his father (who

had courted the alliance of the Lucanians, and even

rendered them active assistance), and turn his anus

against them, though with little effect. A period

of great confusion and disorder appears to have en­

sued, and the rise of the Bruttian people, which

took place at this period (inc. 356), though it in

sotne measure hroko the power of the Lucanians,

was so fur from giving any relief to the Greek cities

that they soon found the Brutlians still more for­

midable neighbours. The flourishing cities of Te-

rina and Hipponium were conquered by the bar­

barians (Diod, xvi. 15; Strab.vi. p. 256): Khegium

and Locri, though they maintained their nationality,

suffered almost as severely from the oppressions and

exactions of the younger Dionysius; while Crotona,

long the most powerful city in this part of Italy,

seems never to have recovered from the blow in­

dicted on it by the elder despot of that name [Cro­

tona], and was with difficulty able to defend itself

from the repeated attacks of the Bruttians. (Diod.

xix. 3, 10.)

Meanwhile, the Lucanians had turned their arms

against the more northerly cities on the Tarentine

gulf. Here the Thuriana seem, as before, to have

borne the brunt of the attack; but at length Ta-

rentum itself, which had hitherto stood aloof, and

had apparently not even joined in the league of

inc. 31)3, was compelled to lake up arms in its own

defence. The Taren tines could have Buffered com­

paratively but little from the causes which had so

severely impaired the prosperity of the other cities

of Magna Graccia; and Taren turn was undoubtedly

at this time the most opulent and powerful of the

Greek cities in Italy. But its citizens were already

enervated by indolence and luxury; and when they

found themselves threatened by the forces of the

Lucanians, combined with their old enemies the

Messapians, tiifjr mistrusted their own resources,

and applied to their parent city of Sparta for assist­

ance. Archidamus, king of Sparta, accepted the

invitation, and proceeded to Italy with a consider­

able force, where he apjears to have carried on the

war for wane years, but was finally defeated and

slain in a battle near Munduria, in c. 338. (Diod.

xvi. 63, 88.) Oidy a few years afterwards, n. c.

332, Alexander king of Kpirus waa invited over to

Italy for the tame purpose. The history of his

expedition is, unfortunately, very impex ectly known

to us; though it ts clear lltat his military operations

were attended witli much success, and mu>t have

exercised considerable influence upon the fortunes of

the Greek cities. Though invited, in the first in­

stance, by the Taren tinea, he subsequently quarrelled

with tliat people, and even turned his anus arainst

them, and took Heraclea, their colony and dependency.

At the same time he defeated the combined f«res

of the Lucanians and Bruttians in several succe**:v«

battles, retook Terina, Consentia, and several other

towns, and penetrated into the heart of Bnstzhxm,

where he was slain by a Lucanian exile, who was

serving in his own army, B.C. 326. (Lit. TiiL 17,

24; Justin, xii. 2.)

After his death, the wars between the Tarentinea

and Lucanians appear to have continued with little

intermission; though we have no further account

of them till the year 303 B. c, when the former

people again sued to Sparta for assistance, and Cleo-

nymus, the uncle of the Spartan king, repaired to

Tarentum with a large mercenary force. So formid­

able did this armament appear that both the xfes-

sa plans and Lucanians were speedily induced to an*

for peace; while Mctapontum, which, for some

reason or other, had oppo?*d the views of CloonyTrras,

was reduced by force of arm*. (Diod. xx, 104.)

The Spartan prince, however, soon alienated all his

allies by his luxury and rapacity, and quitted Italy

the object of universal contempt.

We have very little information as to the wars of

Agaihoclea in Bruttium; though we learn tliat be

made himself master of Hipponium and CruUna,

and occupied the latter city with a garrison, h is

evident, therefore, that his designs were directed aa

much against the Greek cities as their harbarUn

neighbours; and the alliance which lie concluded at

the same time with the lapygians a.id I'eucetiai-j

could only have l>een with a view to the humiliation

of Tarentum. (Diod. xxi. 2,8.) His ambitious de­

signs in this quarter were interrupted by his dent*,

b. c. 289.

Only a few years later than this took place the

celebrated expedition of Pyrrhus to Italy (m. c. 281

— 274), which marks a conspicuous era in the his­

tory of Magna (Jraecia. Shortly before that event,

the Thurians, finding themselves liard pressed and

their city U*elf besieged by the Lucanians, ltad con­

cluded an alliance with the Romans, who raised the

siege and defeated the assailants, n. «*. 282. (Ap|**n,

S<tmn. 7; Val. Mix. i. 8. § 6.) This was the first

occasion that brought the Itouian power down to the

shores of the Tarentine gulf; and here they almost

immediately after came into collision with the Tareo-

tines themselves. [Takknti'si.] That people, er«-

Bcious of their inability to reaist the power of these

pew enemies, now invoked the assistance of PTrrhBe,

king of Kpirus, at the same time that tbey ct«-

eluded a league with the Lucaniam and Saiimitr*,

so long the inveterate enemies of Id-rne. Heme, when

Pyrrhus landed in Italy, he found himself Mippnrte*!

at the same time by all the remaining Greek rinks

in that country, as well as by the barbarian nat-un*

with whom they had been so long at war. It u an-

neceiMtry to enter into a detailed account of hat

campaigns: notwithstanding hia first successes, his

alliance proved of no real advantage to the Greeks,

while his viait to Sicily in a. c 278, and his final

departure in B.C. 274, left them at (be merry of the

victorious Komans. Tarentum itself was token by

the consuls in B.C. 272. Crotona and Lorn wvi

previously fallen into the hands of the Komans;

while Khegium, which was held by a rrvultrd bodj

of Camjiuuiun troop*, originally placed there as a gar­

rison, was finally reduced to subjection in a, c. a*7L

