NEONTEICHOS. NERIGOS. 419

Homeri (c 10), it was built eight years later than

Craw, as a protection against the Pelasgiana of

Larissx (Plin. v. 32; Herod, i. 149; Scyl. p.

28; Steph. B. t. r.) Remains of this town, says

Crainer, ought to be sought for on the right bank of

the Hermos, and above Quiscl-BUtar, on tho road

from Smyrna to Bergamak. [L. S.]

NEONTEICHOS (N«o» tsTxoi), a fortress on the

coast of Thrace, mentioned by Scylax (p. 28) and

bv Xcnophon (Anab. vii. 5. § 8), supposed to be

the modem AinadtjUc [T. H. D.]

NEOPTO'LEJH TI;KRIS(N«ottoA^ouxi^os,

Strab. vii. p. 306), a place on the NW. ooast of the

Euxine, 120 stadia from the river Tyras, and the

same distance from Cremnisci {Anon. Peripl. p. 9),

now Akkerman. [E. B. J.]

NE'PETE (New-era Ptol.; Newira, Strab.: Elh.

Nepeainas: Nepi), a city of Etruria, situated in the

southern part of that province, at a distance of 30

miles from Rome and 8 miles E. of Sutrium. There

is no doubt that it was an ancient Etruscan town,

though certainly not a city of the first rank, and was

probably a dependency of Veii. Hence we meet with

no mention of the name, any more than of its neigh­

bour Sutrium, until after the tall of Veii; but from

that period these two cities became places of much

importance as the frontier fortresses of the Roman

dominion on the side of Etruria (I.iv. vi. 9). The

name of Nepete is first mentioned in b. o. 386, when

it was in alliance with Rome, and being attacked by

the Etruscans, sent to sue for assistance from the

Romans. But before the military tribunes Valerius

and Furius could arrive to their support, the city had

surrendered to the Etruscan arms, and was occupied

with a strong garrison. It was, however, speedily re­

taken, and the leaders of the party who had been in­

strumental in bringing about the surrender were

executed (Liv. vi. 9, 10). A few years later a more

effectual step was taken to secure its possession by

sending thither a Roman colony. The establishment

of this is fixed by Livy in n.o. 383, while Velleins

Faterculus would date it 10 years later, or 17 years

after the capture of Rome by the Gauls (Liv. vi. 21;

Veil. Pat. i. M). It was a Latin colony like most of

those established at this period. In B.C. 297, Ne-

prte U a^ain mentioned as one of the frontier towns

en this side against the Etruscans (Liv. x. 14); but

with this exception we hear no more of it during the

wars of the Romans in Etruria. In the Second Punic

War it was one of the twelve Latin colonies which de­

clared themselves exhausted with the burdens of the

war, and unable to furnish any further supplies:

for which it was punished, before the end of the war,

by the imposition of double contributions (Liv. xxvii.

9, xxix. 15). From this time Nepete seems to have

sunk into the condition of a subordinate provincial

town. Like the other Latin colonies, it obtained the

Roman franchise by the Lex Julia, in 11. c. 90, and

became from thenceforth a municipium; which rank

it appears to have retained under the Empire, though

it is said in the Liber Coloniarnm to have received a

enlony at the same time with that sent to Falerii

(Feat. t.p. JfmicipMim,v. 127; Gruter./nser.p. 308.

2. p. 441. 7; Lib. CoL p. 217; Zumpt, dt Colon,

p. 337). Its existence as a municipal town through-

oat the period of the Roman Empireis proved by in­

scriptions ss well as by Pliny, Ptolemy, and the Ta­

bula (Strab. v. p. 226: Plin. iii. 5. s.8; Ptol. iii. 1.

§50; Tab. Pent.-, Orell. Inter. 879, 3991); but no

mention occurs of it in history till after the fall of

the Western Empire, when it figures in the Gothic

wars as a place of some importance from its strength

as a fortress, and was one of the last strongholds

maintained by the Goths against Nurses (Procop.

B. G. iv. 34). It early became an episcopal sec, r

dignity which it has retained without intermission

till the present time, though now but an insignificant

town with about 1500 inhabitants.

The only remains of antiquity now visible at A'epi

are some ancient sepulchres hewn in the rock, and

some portions of the ancient walls, much resembling

in their construction those of Sutrium and Falerii.

These are considered by Dennis as belonging to the

ancient Etruscan city; but it is more probable that

they date only from the Roman colony. (Dennis's

Etruria, vol. i. p. 111; Nibby, Binlorni, vol. ii.

p. 398.) [E. H. B.]

NE'PHELIS (N«<p«Ait), a small town on the

coast of Cilicia, situated, according to Ptolemy (v. 8.

§ 1), between Antioch and Anemurium; but if, aa

some suppose, it be the same place as the Zea>e'A<oi>

mentioned in the Stadiasmus Maris Magni (§§ 181,

182), it ought to be looked for between Selinus and

Celei ideris. Near the place was a promontory of the

Same name, where, according to Livy (xxxiii. 20),

the fleet of Antiochus the Great was stationed, when,

after reducing the towns of Cilicia as far as Selinus,

he was engaged in the siege of Coracesium, and

where he received the ambassadors of the Rhodians.

(Comp. Leake, Asia Minor, p. 119.) [L. S.]

-M I'll KRIS (Nipepis), a natural fortress situ­  
ated on a rock, 180 stadia from the town of Car­

thage. (Strab. xvii. p. 834.) . [E. B. J.]

NEPTU'NIUS MOSS. [Pelorus.]

NEQUI'NUM. [Narnia.]

SEREAE, a tribe, mentioned with several others,

who are equally unknown, by Pliny, and placed by

him in the neighbourhood of the Insula Pattalene,

the modern Sauraihlrtin (vi. 20. s. 23). [V.]

NERE'TUM, or NERITUM (mipuroi-, Ptol.i

Klh. Neretinus: Nardil), a city of the Sallentini, in

the ancient Calabria, mentioned both by Ptolemy

and Pliny among the inland towns of that people.

Its name is also found in the Tabula, which fixes

its position 29 M. P. from Manduria on the road to

Uxentum (Ugento), and 20 M. P. from the latter

city. These data enable us to identify it with cer­

tainty with the modern town of Nardil, a con­

siderable place about 9 miles S. of Gallipoli. It

is clear from Pliny that it was a town of municipal

rank, and the same thing is confirmed by inscrip­

tions; but there are no ancient remains at Nardo.

(Plin. iii. 11. s. 16; Ptol. iii. 1. § 76; Tab. Peut. ■

Orell. Inter. 3108. Other inscriptions, with the

name of Mutile, herit. published by Muratori,

vol. ii. pp. 1113, 1120, and by Romanelli, vol. ii.

pp. 49, 50, are probably spurious. See Orelli,

138.) [E. H. B.]

NE'RICUS. [Leucas.]

NERIGOS. Pliny (iv. 16. s. 30), in speaking of

the islands in the north of Britain.says that, according

to some, Nerigos was the largest, and that from it

people used to sail to Thule. As besides this pas­

sage we have no other information, it is impossible,

with absolute certainty, to say what island is meant;

but as Norway is in Danish still called Norge, and

in Swedish Norrtge, it is now generally assumed

that Nerigos is the modem Norway; the south­

western headland of which, projecting into the sea,

might easily lead tho ancients to the belief that it was

an island. In the same passage Pliny mentions the

island of Bergi, which may possibly be only the

E E 2

