TOItNADOTUS. 1217 TRACHIS.

ipr»h of the TofxmcriSai u a people in Eoropenn

amatia, who an perhaps the tame as the Turetac

* Tnreatee.

loKXADOTTJP, a small river of Assyria, men-

►«wl by Pliny (vi. 27. s. 31), and a tributary of

he Tigris. It is probably the same stream as that

rticrd by Xenophon under the name of the Physcns.

Iiuii. ii. 4. § 25.) It may be the modem Tornn

r Monaco, Mannert (vi. 2. p. 317) takes it to be

br u/ne as the Adiabas of Ammianns (xxiii. 6); bnt

« Adiabas is more likely to bo that elsewhere

■lied the Zahatus (dow Zab). TV.]

TORXATES, an Aqnitanian people, whose name

premcd in Pliny (iv. 19). There is no indi-

ition tf tbeir position, unless it be the name Tour-

ni a (mall town on the Arms, a branch of the

Jour, and in the diocese of Tarbot, which, under

« name of Turba, was the chief place of the

ifniooes. [Bioerriones.] [G. L.]

ToRON'AICL'S SINUS. [Torosk.]

TORONE (Toparrj: Eth. Tofwvcuoi), a town of

halciilice in Macedonia, situated upon the SW.

»§t of the peninsula of Sithonia. It was said to

i'« derived its name from Tnrone, a daughter of

rmeus or Poseidon ami Phoenice. (Steph. B.

r Taovvii.) It was a Greek colony, founded by

e Chakridians of Eoboea, and appears to hare been

Anally the chief settlement of Ihe Chalcidians in

ne parts. Hence the gulf lying between the pen-

iqIu of Sithonia and Torone was generally called

'Toronaean, now the Gulf of Kassandhra.

•ymixot xiktot, Steph. B. s. t>. Toaivn; Ptol.

13. § 13; Topwutbt koayov, Strab. vii. p. 330;

rmn. Cb. 640; Toronaicum mare, Lit. xliv. 11;

ntiaeos sinus, Tac Ann. v. 10.) Like the other

"It cities in these parts, Torone furnished ships

1 men to the army of Xerxes in his invasion of

we. (Herod, vii. 122.) After the Persian War

'« came under the dominion of Athens. In B.C.

* • party in the town opened the gates to Brasidas,

• it was retaken by Cleon two years afterwards,

hue. It. 110, seq., v. 2.) At a later time it

ma to have been subject to ftljnthrp, niawujl was

nrrrd by the Athenian general Timothens.

• •I t. xv. 81.) It was annexed by Philip, along

i the other Chalcidian cities, to the Macedonian

pne. (Diodor. xvi. S3.) In the war against

mis, at. o. 169, it was attacked by a Roman

•, but without success. (Liv. xliv. 12.) Theo-

astos related that the Egyptian bean grew in a

rsn near Torone (on. Alien, iii. p. 72, d.); and

beetratos mentions a particular kind of fish, for

eh Torone was celebrated (op. Alien, vii. p. 310,

The harbour of Torone was called Gophos

*>»»)■ or " deaf," because being aeparateil from

*xk by two narrow passages, the noise of the  
«■.» was never heard there: hence the proverb

ttraoee tow Toptwaiov AuWvor. (Strab. vii. p.

>; Mela, ii. 3; Zenob. Prov. Craec. cent. iv. pr.

) This port is apparently the same as the one

nl by Tbacydides (v. 2) the harbour of the Co-

."iiiana, which he describes as only a little way

> U>e city of the Toronaeans. Leake conjectures

»e ought perhaps to read Kexpuiv instead of

•oQmr'iv*. Jt is still called Kufo, and Torone

"ii* retains its ancient name. (Leake, Northern

fe. vol. iii. pp. 119, 155, 455.)

OltYNE (Topirn, Pint. Ant. C2; Tooirri, Ptol.

1 *. § 5), a town of Thesprotia in Epeirus, off

h ttie rleet of Augustus was moored a short

leftire the battle of Actium, seems from the

uu n.

order of the names in Ptolemy to have stood in one

of the bays between the month of the river Thy am is

and Sybota, probably at Parga. (Leake, Northern

Greece, vol. i. p. 103, vol. iii. p. 8.)

TOTTAEUM, a place in Bithynia of uncertain

site (/fc Ant. p. 141; It. Ilierot. p. 573, where it is

called Tntaium; ConciL Chalced. p. 98); but some

look for its site near Gekth, and others near Kara-

kaia. [L. S ]

TOXANDRI. These inhabitants of North Gallia

are first mentioned by Pliny (iv. 17) in a passage

which has been interpreted several ways. Pliny's

Belgica is limited on the north by the Scaldis

(JScheUe). [Gallia Trams., Vol. I. p. 960.] Pliny

Bays: u A Scaldi incolunt extent Toxandri pluribns

nominihus. DeindeMenapii,Morini." D'Anvilleand

others explain " extern" to signify beyond the limits

of the Schelde, that is, north and east of this

boundary; and Cluver places the Toxandri in tho

islands of Zetland D'Anvillc supposes that they took

a part of their territory from the Menapii, and that

this newly acquired country was the Campen north

of Brabant and the bishopric of Liege. This con­

jecture is supposed to be confirmed by the passage

of Ammianus Marcellinns (xvii. 8), in which he

says that Julian marched against the Franci named

Salii, who had dared to fix themselves on Roman

ground "apud Toxiandriam locum." The geogra­

phers who are best acquainted with the Netherlands

fix Toxiandri locus at Tessender La, a small place

in the Campen to the north of Brabant. Ukert

(Gallien, p. 372) gives a different meaning to tho

word "extera." He remarks that Pliny, describing

the north coast of Europe (iv. 14), says: "Toto

autem hoc niari ad Scaldim usque flnvinm Ger-

manicae accolunt pontes," and he then enumerates

the peoples as far as the Scaldis. Afterwards

(c 17) he adds "a Scaldi incolunt," &c.; and a

few lines further, a word * introrsus" is opposed to

this " extera"; from which Ukert concludes that

"extera" here means the coast country, a meaning

which it has in two other passages of Pliny (ii. 67,

iv. 13). After describing the nations which occupy

the "extera," or coast, Pliny mentions the people*

in the interior, and in the third place the Germanic

peoples on the Rhine. Accordingly Ukert concludes

that we must look for the Toxandri in the neigh­

bourhood of Ghent and Bruges. [G. L.j

TRACANA (TjxWo, Ptol. iii. 5. § 27), an

inland city of European Sarmatia. [T. H. D.l

TRACHIS or TRACHIN (T,>oxl«. Herod., Thuc,

et alii; Tpaxl", Strab.: Fih. Tpax^iot). 1. A city

of Malis, in the district called after it Trarhinia.

It stood in a plain at the foot of ML Ota, a little to

tho N. or rather W. of Thermopylae, and derived its

name from the rocks which surrounded the plain.

It commanded the approach to Thermopylae from

Thessaly, and was, from its position, of great military

importance. (Herod, vii. 176; Strab. ix. p. 428;

Steph. B. s. r.) The entrance to the Trachinian

plain was only half a plethrum in breadth, but the

surface of the plain was 22,000 plethra, according

to Herodotus. The same writer states that the city

Trachis was 5 stadia from the river Melas, and that

the river Asopus issued from a gorge in the moun­

tains, to the S. of Trachis. (Herod, vii. 198.)

According to Thucydides, Trachis was 40 stadia

from Thermopylae and 20 from the sea (Thuc.

iii. 92.) Trachin is mentioned in Homer as one of

the cities subject to Achilles (IL ii. 682), and is

celebrated in the legends of Hercules as tbe scene of

