Ki.Mi SYRACUSAE. SYRACUSAE.

tlie indent city, from whence the table-land slopes

very gradually to the sea. Though of small eleva­

tion, this plateau is bounded on all sides by pre­

cipitous hanks or cliffs, varying in height, but only

accessible at a few points. It may be considered as

naturally divided into two portions by a slight

valley or depression running across it from X. to

.N., about a mile from the sea: ot these the upper or

triangular portion was known as BnrOLAB, the

eastern portion adjoining the sea bore the name of

AcHRAplNA, which thus forms in some degree a

distinct and separate plateau, though belonging, in

fact, to the same mass with Eptpolae.

The SE. angle of the plateau i.s separated from

the Great Harbour by a small tract of low and level

ground, opposite to which lies the island of Ok-

TVr.i.v, a low islet about a mile in length, extending

across the mouth of the Great Harbour, and ori­

ginally divided by only a narrow strait from the

mainland, whilst its southern extremity was sepa­

rated from the nearest point of the headland of

J'lemmyriutn by an interval of about 1200 yards,

forming the entrance into the Great Harbour. This

last was a spacious bay, of above 5 miles in cir­

cumference; thus greatly exceeding the dimensions

of what the ancients usually understood by a ]M>rt.

but forming a very nearly land-locked basin of a

somewhat oval form, which afforded a secure shelter

to shipping in all weather; and is even at the pre­

sent day one of the finest harbours in Sicily. But

between the island of Ortygia and the mainland to

the N. of it, was a deep bight or inlet, forming

what was called the Lesser Port or Portus Lac-

CUIUS, which, though very inferior to the other,

was still equal to the ordinary requirements of an­

cient commerce.

S. of the Great Harbour again rose the peninsular

promontory of PlRMMTRTUM, forming a table-land

hounded, like that on the N. of the bay, by pre­

cipitous escarpments and cliffs, though of no great

elevation. This table-land was prolonged by an­

other plateau at a somewhat lower level, bounding

the southern side of the Great Harbour, and ex­

tending from thence towards (he interior. On its NK.

angle and opposite to the heights of Epipolae, stood

t lie temple of Jupiter Olympius, or ths Oi.ymtiki m,

overlooking the low marshy tract which intervenes

between the two table-lands, and through which

the river Anapus finds its way to the sea. The

beautiful stream of the Cvane rises in a source

about l.J mile to the N. of the Olympienni, and

joins its waters with those of the Anapns almost

immediately below the temple. From the foot of

the hill crowned by the latter extends a broad tract

of very low marshy ground, extending along the

inner side of the Great Harbour quite to the walls

of the city itself. A portion of this marsh, which

seems to have formed in ancient times a shallow

pool or lagoon, was known by the name of Lyst-

mbleia (Awn/aaAeia, Time. vu. 53; Theocr, Id.

xvi. 84). though its more ancient appellation would

seem to have been SykaCO (2v^a«w), from whence

the city itself was supposed to derive its name.

(Staph. B. s. V. 2vpanovoai; Scymn. Ch. 281.) It

is, however, uncertain whether the names of Syraco

and Ly.siincleia may not originally have belonged to

different portions of these marshes. This marshy

tract, which is above a mile in breadth, extends

towards the interior for a considerable distance, till

it is met by the precipitous escarpments of the

great table-land of the interior. The proximity of

these marshes must always have been prrjadjetil

the healthiness of the situation: sod tat Wjeai,

that when Archias and Myscelltu were aW* s»

found Syracuse and Cn>tona, the latter chat*

while the former preferred wtahii (Steph. B. lt±

points to the acknowledged insalubrity *i" the

even in its most flourishing days. Hot m

other respect the situation was admirable; sad

prosperity of Syracuse wm doubtless owtbj

great degree to natural as well as political est

It was, moreover, celebrated for the niiknesi

serenity of its climate, it being genrr»flr asa

that there was no day on which the m «■

visible at Syrac—0 (Cic. Vrrr. v. 10), as

which it is said still to retain at the preset!

II. HlSTORT.

Syracuse was, with the single exceftvei of

the most ancient of the Gret-k colonies •

It was a Corinthian colony, sent cat from tsar

under a leader named, Archias, son of Euarrtsv

belonged to the powerful family of the"

but had been compelled to expatriate

cording to some accounts the eoloiiy »a*

ened by an admixture of Dorian or Locrssi

with the original Corinthian settlers: bur it is

that theSynicnsans regarded themselves ■ all

of pure Corinthian origin (Theocr. Id. it. 91

maintained relations of the closest amity wrb

parent city. The colony wm frurkled in s.c

and the first settlers established tbem^ehrss a

island of Ortygia. to which it U probable

city was confined for a considerable f*riJ.

vi. 2; Strab. vi. p. 269; Scymn. Ch. 47

Mann. Par.; concerning the date, ae C

F. If. vol. i. p. 164 ) The name of Ortyt»

dently Grevk, and derived from the

epithet ot I>i;«ru*. to whom the i*Und was

as consecrated (Diod. v. 3); but the citf

have assumed from the wry begin oinr, tfc*

of Syraeusae, which was derived, as already

tioned, fmm the name of the aJjoin:r*

lake, Syraco, doubtless an indigences nan*

has no signiticatjon in Greek. It appears

that the form Syraco was used by E|

the name of the city itself, but this

a mere poetic license. (Strab. riii. p. 354.)

As tn the case of most of tbe Greek

Sicily, we have very little in formal k*

the early history and progress of

may infer that it rose steadily, if

prosperity, from the circumstance that it

to extend its power by the frnnilaliai af

colonies: that of Acrae wiihin 70

own establishment (n, c 664),

later (n. c. 644), and Camanrta 43 y-»

wards, or b. c. 599. Nooe of then eaiav

ever, rose to any considerable power: il

riooslj the policy of Syracuse to keep tba

position of mere dependencies; and

having given umbrage to the pared csry,

st roved only 46 years after its

vi. 5; Scymn. Ch. 294—296.) Sj

however, free from internal disserts

tions. An obscure notice preserved to t» K»

cydides indicates the occurrence of thaw as

as b. c. 648, which led to the exp«lsi<« «it

or clan called the Blyletidae, who

exile and jotned in t be f *nndatmn of

(Thuc vi. 5.) Another indication of such

is found in Aristotle {Pol v. 4), but we are

