MODIN. 365 MOEBIS LACUS.

those days a mere village, or at least a dependency

of Mediolanum; but the Gothic king Theodoric

constructed a palace there, and made it his summer

residence. It continued to be a favourite abode of

the Lombard kings, and Queen Theodolinda founded

a Basilica there, which has ever since been one of

the most celebrated churches in the N. of Italy, and

still contains many interesting relics of the cele­

brated Lombard queen. (P. Disc. But. Lang. iv.

22. 49.) [E. H. B.]

MODIN (Mutttu, LXX.; MwSe'1/1, Mwom.V,

Joseph.; M noWp, Euseb.).the residence of Mattathias,

the {mat grandson of Asamonaeus, and the father of

Jodas Maccabaeus and his four valiant brothers, who

ns however only a sojourner at Modin, being a

native of Jerusalem, and a priest of the course of

Joarih. It was probably the native place of the sons, as

it was also their burying-place. Here it was that the

first opposition to the impious edict of Antiochus

Epiphanes was made, when Mattathias slew with

his own band the renegade Jew who had offered

idolatrous sacrifice, and demolished the altar. (Jos.

Ant xii. 8. §§ 1, 2.) Judas was buried there in the

sepulchre of his father (lb. 11. §27); and subse­

quently on the death of Jonathan, Simon erected a

monument of white polished marble over their graves,

which be raised to a great height, so as to be con-

spicaous from afar, and surrounded with a monolithic

colonnade. In addition to this, he raised seven

pyramids, one fir each of the family, remarkable

both for their size and beauty, which remained

until the age of the historian (xiii. 6. § 5, comp.

1 Mace. xiii. 27—30), as indeed Eusebius and S.

Jerome affirm that the sepulchres of the Maccabees

were shown there at their day. (Onomasr. s. ».)

Josephus (xiL 6. § 1) simply calls it a village of

Judaea; but the last-cited authors speak of it as a

village near to Diospolis (Lydda). The author of

the 1st Book of Maccabees writes that upon the pil­

lars which were set about the pyramids, Simon

* made all their armour for a perpetual memory, and  
by the armour ships caned, that they might be seen

of all that sail on the sea." (xiii. 28, 29.) This

would imply that these pyramids were not very far

distant from the sea, and so far confirm the report

of Eosebius and S. Jerome, who place the sepul­

chres in the vicinity of Lydda, and perhaps affords

same countenance to the idea that the name " Mac-

cabee" was derived from the root 3pD the final

radicals of the names of the three patriarchs Abra­

ham, Isaac, and Jacob, which the tribe of Dan, on

whose borders Modin was situated, are said to have

carried on their banner. (Keland, i.v. p. 901.) A

comparatively modem tradition has placed Modin on

a remarkable conical hill, named Svba, i\ hours

fn«n Jerusalem, on the left of the Jaffa road; but

this is, as Dr. Knbinson has remarked "several hours

uutant from the plain, upon the mountains, and

wholly shut out from any view of the sea." {Bib.

foi rii ii. p. 329.) He suggests that it may have

ban at Ldtron, which is also on the Jaffa road, on

toe very verge of the plain (Ibid, note 4, and vol. iii.

r 30, z. 4.) But this is too far from Lydda, and so

*ar t» Nicopolia [F.mhaus, 2.] that Eusebius would  
UKjothss have described it by its vicinity to that

"tj, rather than to Diospolis. Its site has vet to

u »*'ui:bt [G. W.]

MODOGALINGA (Plin.vi. 19. ». 22), one of the

latTK bland* in the Delta of the Ganges. Calinga is

of frequent occurrence in the ancient notices of India.

[Cauxoa.] [V.]

MODOGULLA (MotiyovMa, Ptol. vii. 1. § 83),

a town mentioned by Ptolemy, on the western side

of Hindustan. It is probably the present Modgull,

at no great distance from Calliany. [V.]

MODOMA'STICE (Mo5ojio<7TMCt|, Ptol. vi. 6.

§ 2), one of the four divisions into which Ptolemy

divides the province of Carmania Deserta (now

Kirmdn). [V.]

MODBA (to1 MdJpa), a small town, which, ac­

cording to Strabo (xii. p. 543), was situated in

Phrygia Epictetus, at the Bourees of the river Gal-

lus; but as this river flows down from the northern

slope of mount Olympus, which there forms the

boundary between Phrygia and Bithynia, Strabo

must be mistaken, and Modra probably belonged to

the south-west of Bithynia, and was situated at or

near the modern Aim Gevl. (Paul. Lucas, Sec. Voy.

i. 14.) As Strabo's expression is ix M6Spuv, some

have supposed that Modra was no town at all, but

only a name of a district; but it is known from

Constantine Porpbyrogenitus (rfe Them, vi.) that

the district about Modra was called Modrene. [L S.]

MODUBAE (Plin. vi. 19. s. 22), one of several

unknown tribes or nations placed by Pliny beyond

the Ganges, in that part of India which was anciently

called India extra Gangem. [V.]

MODUTiA (Moooupa, Ptol. vii. 1. § 89.) There

are two places of this name mentioned in the ac­

counts of ancient India: one described by Ptolemy

(I. c.) as fSaaiktiov Tlavtiovos, the Palace of King

Pandion; and the other as MSSovpa tj rvv Sciov,

the Sacred Modoura (vii. 1. § 50). The former of

these towns was in the southern part of HindoMn,

and is most probably the present ruined city, Ma­

dura; the second was in the land of the Cospeiraei

in the NW. part of India, either on the frontier or

in the Panjdb. Its exact position cannot now be

determined. [V.]

MODUTTI (MoSoottou <u*6piov, Ptol. vii. 4.

§ 7), a port in the island of Tapr»bane or Ceylon,

mentioned by Ptolemy. The strong resemblance of

the name makes it extremely probable that it is the

same with the present Mantotte, where there are

still the remains of a great city, and where a great

number of Boman coins of the times of the Antonines

have been dug up. It appears to have been situated

at the northern point of the island. The inhabitants

were called Mo5ovttoi. [V.]

MOENUS (the Main), a navigable river of Ger­

many, which has its sources in the Sudeti Montes,

near the town of Menosgada, and after flowing in a

western direction through the country of the Her-

mundnri and the Agri Decumates, empties itself into

the Bhine,a little aboveMoguntiacum (Plin. ix. 17;

Mela, iii. 3. § 3; Amm. Marc. xvii. 1; Tac. Germ. 28;

Eumcn. Paneg. Constant. 13.) [L. S.]

MOEBIS LACUS (v Mo/o.or \ipnrn, Herod, ii.

13, 148, seq.; Diod. i. 52; MolpiSoj Klurn, Strab.

xviii. p. 810; Ptol. iv. 5. §§ 20, 36; Moeris Lacns,

Mela, i. 9. § 5; Moeridia, Plin. v. 9. s. 9), was the most

extensive and remarkable of all the Aegyptian lakes.

It formed the western boundary of the Arainoite

nome [ARstNOK.] in Middle Aegypt, and was con­

nected with the Nile by the canal of Joseph (Ilahr-

Jusuf). A portion of its ancient bed is repre­

sented by the modern Birket-el- Kert'in. Of all the

remarkable objects in a land so replete with wonders,

natural and artificial, as Aegypt, the lake of Moeris

was the most enigmatical to the ancients. Herodot us

(ii. 149), who is followed by Pliny (v. 9. s. 9),

'regarded it as the work of man, and ascribes it to a

