TACARAEI. 1(K«3 TAENARUM.

nitful, but its harbour mn bad. (Geogr. Nub.

am iii. pt. ii. p. 67.) In earlj times it was sub-

■t to Byxacinm; bat subsequently, as a Roman

leny, brlongrd to the Regio Tripolitana. of which

was tie moiit westerly town. In its neighbour­

ly were warm mineral springs called the Aquae

u-apitante (//«. Ant. p. 78), now El-Ilammah.

t Plin. t. 4. a. 3; I tin. Ant. pp. 48, 50, 59, &c,

i-re it a called Tacapae). Now Gobi, Cabet, or

mOa. [T. H. D.]

TACARAEI (Toxootuoi, Ptol. vii. 2. § 15), a

rintain tribe of India extra Gangem, who lived in

r extreme NW. near the junction of the Imaus

I Kmodus chains, adjoining the Mons llepyrrhus.

!" ma»t have occupied part of the district now

lid Aamn. [V.]

TACHOMPSO (TaXo^iJ, Herod, ii. 29; Ta-

npaos. Plin. vi. 29. a. 33; Mela, i. 9. § 2), a town

tlie Regio Dodecaschoenus, S. of Aegypt and the

taracta. It stood upon an island of the Nile, and

■ inhabited by a mixed colony of Aegyptians and

thinpiana. The Coptic word Tachempsa Minifies

be place of many crocodiles," Tachompso wan

tad ea the E. bank of the river, lat. 23° 12' N.,

irty appaaite the town uf Pselcis. As Pselcis in-

a*ed, Tachompso declined, so that it at last was re-

icd aa merely a suburb of that town, and went by

•urne of Contra- Pselcis. Though supposed by some

bare been near the modern village of Conzo in

rev Nubia, it is impossible to reconcile any known

ihty with the ancient descriptions of this place,

even (African Nations, vol. i. pp. 346, 383)

■>!«*. it to have been either at the island Kalabihe

1 ■;•<) or 20 miles further S as Ghyrshe. He-

'•vi (JL e.) describes the island on which Ta­

mpa* stood as a plain contignons to a vast hike.

1 neither each a lake nor island now appear in

> part of the Nile's course. The lake may have

■ the result of a temporary inundation, and the

mi gradually undermined and carried away bv

p-riolical floods. [W. B. I).]

rACOXA (TdawAo, Ptol. vii. 2. § 5), a place

Die west coast of the Aurea Cbersonesns, iu

s extra Gangem, which Ptolemy calls an ein-

ta. There can be no doubt that it is repre-

ed now by either 7oroy or Ttnasserim. [V.]

TACITBIS (TaKovtii, l'tol. ii. 5. § 7), a place

ositania. [T.H.D.]

APEft, a river on the S. coast of HL-punia Tar-

maria. (Plin. iii. 3. s. 4.) It is probably indi-

d by Ptolemy (ii. 6. § 14) under TipiSos to­

rn* ■ >i. Now the Segura. [T. H. D.]

'ADINUM (ftA. Tadinas: Ru. near Gualdo), a

n uf Cnibria, mentioned by Pliny among the

■opal towns of that region. (Plin. iii. 14. s.

) It is not noticed by any other ancient author

ions to the fall of the Western Empire; but its

le is repeatedly found in the epistles of Gregory

Great, axad it is evidently the same place called

;'i supiua Taginae (TAyiMi, Procop. B. G. iv.

near which the Gothic king Totila was de-

id by Jtairsea in a great battle, in which he was

•elf mortally wounded, A. I). 552. The site is

rty fixed by the discovery of some ruins and

r ancient monuments in 1750 at a place aliout

ile and a half from Gualdo, wheretherc U an old

-a consecrated in the middle ages toSni Maria  
Gualdo is about 9 miles N. of Noctrn

^ rloae to the line of the Flaminian Way:

T there n little doubt that we should substitute

iaaj for "Puma*," a name obviously corrupt,

given in the Jerusalem Itinerary as a station on the

Flaminian Way. (/(in, llier. p. 614; Wesseling,

ad toe.; Cramer, Italy, vol. L p. 267.) [E. H. B.]

TADMOR. [Palmyra.]

TADU (Plin. vi. 29. s. 35; comp. Strab. xvii.

p. 786), a small island of the Nile that formed the

harbour of the city of Meroe. Bruce (Trace!*, vol.

iv. p. 618) supposes Tadu to have been the modern

Cvrgo, N. of Schendy. As, however the site of

Meme is much disputed, that of Tadu is equally

uncertain (Ritter,Erdkund.vol. i. p. 567). |W.B.I)']

TAE'NARUM (Too-apo!-, Herod. Strab. et alii;

t) Taivapla &Kpa, Ptol. iii. 16. § 9), a promontory

at the extremity of Laconia, and the most southerly

point of Europe, now cnlled C. Matapan. Tim

name of Taenarum, however, was not confined to

the extreme point bearing the name of Matapdn.

It has been shown by Leake that it was the name

given to the peninsula of circular form about seven

miles in circumference, which is connected with the

end of the great Taygetic promontory by an isthmus

about half a mile wide in a direct distance. Hence

Taenarum is correctly described by Strabo as an

eWrb iKKUfUirn (viii. p. 363). Leake conjectures

with great probability that Matapan is merely

another form of Mirumov, which may bave been

the name given by the ancients to the southern ex­

tremity of the peninsula. (Morca, vol. i. p. 301.)

On cither side of the isthmus, which connects the

promontory of Taenarum with that of Taygetns, is

a bay, of which the one on the east is called Porto

Quaglio, corrupted into A'aio, and the one on the

west Marinari or Marmdri. The name of Quaglio

was given to the eastern bay by the Venetians, lie-

cause it was the Inst place in Europe at which the

quails rested in the autumn before crossing over to

Crete and Cyrene. Porto Quaylio is one of the

best harbours in Laconia, being sheltered from the

S. and SE.; it is nearly circular, with a narrow

entrance, a fine sandy bottom, and depth of water

for large Bhips. Porto Marmdri is described as

only a dangerous creek. In the Taenarian penin­

sula there are also two porta on its eastern side, of

which the northern, called Vathy, is a long narrow

inlet of the sea, while the southern, called Aivnuitn

or Kistcrne*, is very small and ill sheltered. A

quarter of a mile southward of the inner extremity

of the last-mentioned port, a low point of rock pro­

jects into the sea from the foot of the mountain,

which, according to the inhahitanta of the peninsula,

is the real C. Matapan. The western 6ide of tho

peninsula is rocky and harbourless.

The whole of the Taenarian peninsula was sacred

to Poseidon, who appears to have succeeded to tho

place of Helios, the more ancient god of the locality.

(Horn. Hymn, m ApolL 411.) At the extremity of

this peninsula was the temple of Poseidon, with an

asylum, which enjoyed great celebrity down to a

late period. It seems to have been an ancient

Achaean sanctuary before the Dorian conquest, and

to have continued to be the chief sacred place ot

the Perioeci and Helots. The great earthquake,

which reduced Sparta to a heap of ruins in b. c.

464, was supposed to have been owing to the

Lacedaemonians having torn away some suppliant

Helots from this sanctuary. (Thuc. i. 128, 133;

Paus. iii. 25. § 4; Strab. viii. p. 363; Earip. CycL

292.) Near the sanctuary was a cavern, through

which Hercules is said to have dragged Cerbems to

the upper regions. (Paus. Strab. ll.ee.; Pind. Pylh.

iv. 77; Tacnariae faucet, Virg. Ceory. iv. 467;

