432 NILl'S. NILUS.

desert now disappear. The rocky banks sink down;

the inundation fertilises the borders to a considerable

distance ; and for patches ot arable soil tine pastures

abound, whence both Arabia and Aegypt imported

a breed of excellent horses. (Russegger, Karte ran

Nubien.) But after quitting Napata (?) no re­

mains of antiquity are found before we arrive at the

< iagaudes Insula of Pliny (vi. 29. s. 35), lat 19° 35',

the modern Arr/o, a little above the third Cataract.

The quarries of this island, which is about 12 miles

in length, and causes a considerable eddy in the

river, were worked both by Aethiopians and Aegyp-

tians. A little to X. of this island, and below

the third Cataract, the Nile makes a considerable

bend to the E., passing on its right bank the ruins

uf Segh$\ or Sescke. On its left bank are found the

remains of the temple of Solebt equally remarkable

for the beauty of its architecture, and for its pic­

turesque situ upon the verge of the rich land, " the

river's gift," and an illimitable plain of sand stretch­

ing to the horizon. (Coilliaud, /' Isle de Sferoe,

tol i. p. 375; Hoskins, Travels, p. 245.) The

Nile is once again divided by an island called Sais,

and a little lower down is contracted by a wall of

granite on either side, so that it is hardly a stone's-

throw across. At this point, and for a space of

.several miles, navigation is practicable only at the

season of the highest floods.

Below Sais arc found the ruins of the small

temple of Amara, and at Stmneh those of two

temples which, from their opposite eminences on the

right and left banks of the river, probably served as

fortresses also at this narrow pass of the Nile. That

a city of great strength once existed here is the

more probable, because at or near Semneh was the

frontier between Aethiopia and Aegypt. We have

now arrived at the termination of the porphyry and

granite rocks: henceforward, from about lat. 21°

N., the river-banks are composed of sandstone, and

acquire a less rugged aspect. The next remarkable

feature is the Cataract of Wadi-Halfot the Great

Cataract of the ancient geographers. (Strab. xvii.

p. 7SG.)

In remote ante-historic periods a bar of pri­

mitive rock, piercing the sandstone, probably

spanned the Nile at this point (lat 22° N.) from

shore to shore. But the original barrier has been

broken by some natural agency, and a series of

islands now divides the stream which rushes and

chafes between them. It is indeed less a single fall

or shoot of water than a succession of rapids, and

may be ascended, as Belzoni did, during the inun-

dution. (Travels in Xnlria, p. 85.) The roar of

the waters may be heard at the distance of half a

league, and the depth of the fall is greater than

that of the first Cataract at Syene. On the left

bank of the river a city once stood in the immediate

neighbourhood of the rapids ; and three temples,

exhibiting on their walls the names of Sesorta^en,

Thothmes III., and Amenophis [[., have l>een par­

tially surveyed here. Indeed, with the second Ca­

taract, we may he said to enter the propylaea of

Aegypt itself. For thenceforward to Syene — a

distance of 220 miles either bank of the Nile

presents a succession of temples, cither excavated

in the sandstone or separate structures, of various

cms and styles of architecture. Of these the most

remarkable and the most thoroughly explored is that

of Abonsimbrl or Ij'sambul, the ancient Ibsciah,

on the left bank, and two days* journey l»elow the

Cataract. This temple was first cleared of the in­

cumbent sand by Belzoni {Researches, to! i. p.316),

anil afterwards more completely explored, and hi*-

tified with the rcipi of Rameses III., by C'oao-

pollion anil Rosellini. Primis {Ibrim) is one oar's

journey down the stream; and below it thesandststs

hills compress the river for about 2 miles witfam

a mural escarpment, so that the current seem Is

force itself rather than to flow through this banish.

(3.) 77/c jViYc below Syene. — At Syene

sotuui), 24° 5' 23" N. lat., the Nile enters ArgrjS

Proper; and from this point, with occasional roe-

vatures to the K. or NW., preserves gen**ndjj |

due northerly direction as far as its bifurcausa

at the apex of the Delta. Its bed presents sst

a slight declivity, the fall being only from 5001

£00 feet from Syene to the Mediterranean. I.«

width of the valley, however, thmneh which it flssfl

varies considerably, and the geological charartersl

its banks undergoes several changes. At s shot

distance below Syene begins a ranee of eandslSfl

rocks, which ]>ass into limestone below LaVrpafiq

lat. 25° 30' N.; and this formation continue* ws4j

out any resumption of the sandstone, until botfasK

Libyan and the Arabian hills diverge finally atOsl

casornm. The river thus flows beneath ibe ptfti

cipa] quarries out of which the great structural!

the Nile valley were built, and was the high nail

which the blocks were conveyed to Thebes and AM

linopolis, to Sais and Bubastis, to the Great Lakf

rinth in the Arsinoite nome, to the Pyr&midftSa

Memphis, and, finally, to the Greek and \lxm

architects of Alexandres a and Antinoopoli*. A^SJ

from Syene to LatojK.Iis, the shores of the nverfl

sterile and dreary, since the inundation is cbeeflj

by the rock-walls E. and W. of the stream. ■

at Apollinopolis Magna, lat. 25°, and at Latnpsfl

25° 30', the rocks leave a broader verge far ttoif

tilising deposit, and the Nile flows through

cultivated tracts. At Thebes, for the first

banks expand into a broad plain, which

closed in at the N. end by the hills at

Here the river is divided by small inlands,

mile and a quarter in breadth. It has hi:

lowed a northerly direction ; but at Coptos,

road connected the stream with the ports of the

Sea [Berenice], it bends to the NW., and

this inclination for some distance. At F

however, it resumes its general N. bearing,

tains it to the fork of the Delta.

Near Diospolis Parva (Ilotc), on the ted

and opposite Chcnobosdum, on the right, bi ihaaj

canal, or, perhaps, an ancient branch of the

called the Canal of Joseph (Bahr-Jut»tfy

lateral stream Hows in a direction nearly p

the main one, through the Arsinoite name

Fyouni). From this point the Nile itseif

no remarkable feature until it reaches S

midos, cr the grottos of Benihassa*^

eastern hills, approaching close to the river,

its inundation, and consequently also the ml

land. In lat. 29° N. the Libyan hilU, far a

recede, and curving at first NW., bnt soon

a SE. direction, embrace the Arsinoite nonie.

:i little beli-.v Memphis, and after passing tht>

of (Ubil-el*Mokattam, both the eastern anil

chains of rocks finally diverge, and th* it

pauds upon the great alluvial plain of the

At Cercasoruni, where the bifurcation of lb* a?

begins, or, perhnps, at a remoter period. atiB

Memphis, the Nile probably met the Medit

or at least an estuary, which its annual

3

on -r^«a

