THISOA. 1175 THORICUS.

m one aide of tlic causeway, while that on the other

.-> cultivated. The ruins of Thisbe are found at

Kuhvia. * The position is between two great sam-

ili of the mountain, now called Karamuitghi and

V,%Uumui, which rise majestically above the vale,

<\md with trees, in the upper purt, and covered

<>th snow at Uie top. The modem village lies in a

m»9 hollow surrounded on all sides by low cliffs

xrfinected with the last falls of the mountain. The

rails of Thisbe were about a mile, in circuit, follow-

■ • the crest of the cliffs which surround the village;

Ikt an chiefly preserved on the aide towards

''"hrctkd and the south-east. The masonry is fur

> most part of the fourth order, or faced with

1411a] layers of large, oblong, quadrangular stones on

be uutside, ihe interior as usual being filled with

rubble. On the principal height which lies

<<wi.nl* the mountain, and which is an entire mass

< ruck, appear some reparations of a later date than

he real of the walls, and there are many Hellenic

ftiodations on the face of this rock towards the

In the cliffs outside the walls, to the north-

rwt and south, there are many sepulchral excava-

ian*," (Leake, XortAcr* Greece, vol. ii. p. 506.)

>ake observed the mole or causeway which Pausa-

describes, and which serves for a road across the

itarsh to the port. The same writer remarks that,

u the plain of Thisbe is completely surrounded by

ifijrhta, there is no issue for the river which rises in

ae Ascraea and here terminates. "The river crosses

lie causeway into the marsh by two openings, the

iouof of which in the winter or spring would at

my time cause the upper part of the plain to bo in-

mUtal, and leave the lower fit for cultivation in

Jmminer; but as the river is now allowed to flow

iti-tantly through tbein, the western side is always

it a ktate of marsh, and the ground has become

:>'irh higher on the eastern side."

The port of Thisbe is now called Vathy. The

tare is very rocky, and abounds in wild pigeons, as

-tnbo and Stephanu* have observed; but there is  
tttfi a considerable number at Kakusia itself. The

v rrun poets also allude to the pigeons of Thihbe,

Hence Orid (i/et xi. 3(H)) speaks of the u This,

awe columbae,'* and Statius (Theb. vii. 261) de-

• ribe* Thisbe as ** Dionaeis avibus circunisona."

I>ital« is mentioned both by Pliny (iv. 7. s. 12) and

tokuj (iii. J 5. § 20).

THISOA- [Tukiboa.]

Till US. [ M kqa lopous. ]

THMUIS (t»pouh, Herod, ii. 168; Aristides,

IfypL vol. iii. p. 610; Ptol. iv. 5. § 51), the

nouern Tmai, was a town in Lower Aegypt, aitu-

tfad upon a canal K. of the Nile, between its Tanite

1:1,i MeaoVian branches. It was the capital uf the

[Lnniite Sotoe, in which the Calasirian division of

lw Aesyptian army possessed lands. At the time

■f Herodotua's visit to the Delta the Thmuite Koine

iau been ii)eoq*irated with the Mende&ian. Their

:-o*rp*catioo was doubtless owing, partly to the

luperiorsixe of the latter, and partly to their having

1 "nt rrwn object of worship in the goat Mendes

of whom Thmu was in the old Aegyptian

i»;uage(Hieronym.ia Isaiam, xlvi. l)the appella-

."Q. In the reigns of Valenlinian and Theodosius

n* Great {a. v. 375, foil.) Thmuis was a town of

1 consequence, governed by its own magistrates,

rod exempt from the jurisdiction of the Alexandrian

detect (Arnni. Marc. xxii. 16. § 6). It was also

li rpi*copal s*e, and one uf its bishops, Scrap ion, is

/iY:.iioued by Hcracleanus. {ftp. Plwtium, p. 65, ed.

Bekker.) Remains of the ancient city are supposed

to exist at Tel-etmai or 'Tmai, SW. of Afansoorah,

A monolithal shrine and many sarcophagi of granite

have been found there, and a factitious mound at

the village of Temay, raised above the level of the

inundation, is probably an Aegyptian work. (Cham-

poll ion, Egypte sous les Pharaons, vol. ii. p. 114.)

That dykes were essential to the preservation of the

city appears from the description of it by Aristides

(/. a), who represents Thmuis as standing upon and

surrounded by flat and marshy grounds. [W.B.D.]

THOAE. [Echinades.]

THOANA. [Thana]

TIK/AKIS or THOA'KIUS (Boo^f or eod>or),

a small coast river in Pontus Polemoniacus (Aman,

PeripL P. E. p. 16; Anon. PeripL P. E. p. 11), is

now called Ghsureh, Irmak, or perhaps more cor­

rectly Thureh Irmak. (Hamilton, Researches, i. p.

279.) [L. S.]

THO'CNIA (ewWa, Burma: Eth. Bawfi/*), a

town of Arcadia in the district Parrhasia, situated

upon a height on the river Aminius. which flows into

the Helisson, a tributary of the Alpheius. The town

was said to have been founded by Thocnus, the son

of Lycaon, and was deserted in the time of Pau-

aanias, as its inhabitants had been removed to Me­

galopolis. It is placed by Leake in the position of

Vromose'la, (Pans. viii. 3. § 2, 27. § 4, 29. § 5;

Stcph. B. «.*.; Leake. Morea, vol. ii. p. 293.)

THOMNA. [Tamka.]

TH0XIT1S LACUS. [Tnospms.]

THORAE. [Attica, p. 331, a.]

THOWCUS (Bofuiror: Eth. SopUios: Therik6\

a town of Attica on the SE. coast, and about 7 or 8

milea X. of the promontory of Sunium, was origi­

nally one of the twelve citiea into which Attica is

said to have been divided before the time of Theseus,

and was afterwards a demus belonging to the tribe

Acainanlis. (Sirab. ix. p. 397.) It continued to

be a place of importance during the flourishing

period of Athenian history, as its existing remains

prove, and was hence fortified by the Athenians in the

24th year of the Peloponnesian War. (Xen. Hell. i.

2. § 1.) It was distant 60 stadia from Anaphlystus

upon the western coast. (Xen. de Vect. 4. § 43.)

Thoricus is celebrated in mythology as the residence

of Cepbalus, whom Eos or Aurora carried off to

dwell with the gods. (Apollod. ii. 4. § 7; Eurip.

HtpjHfi 455.) It has been conjectured by Words­

worth, with much probability, that the idea of Tho­

ricus was associated in the Athenian mind with audi

a translation to the gods, and that the ** Thoricimi

stone" (BoptKios wtrpos) mentioned by Stplioolea

(Qed. Col. 1595), respecting which there has been bo

much doubt, probably lias reference to such a migra­

tion, as the poet is describing a similar translation

of Oedipus.

The fortifications of Thoricus surrounded a small

plain, which terminates in the harbour of the city,

now called Porto Mandri. The ruins of the walls

may be traced following the crest of the hills on the

northern and southern sides of the plain, and cross­

ing it on the west. The acropolis peetna to have

stood upon a height rising above the sheltered creek

of Frang6 Ltmiona, which ia separated only by a

cape from Pvrto Mandri. Below this height, on

the northern side, are the ruins of a theatre, of a

singular form, being an irregular curve, with one of

the sides longer than the other. In the [ lain, to the

westward, are the remains of a quadrangular colon­

nade, with Doric columns. (Leake, Demi of A ttica,

4 F 4

