294 BfASSILTA. MASSITHOLTJS.

The medals of Massalia are numerous, and Home

of them are in pood ta>te. It ia probable that they

;tl ■> i i in< -I for the Galli, for the Galli had coined

money of their own long before the Christian aera

with Oraak characters. The common types of the

M • — iii .J medals are the lion and the bull. No

gold coins of Massalia hare yet been found ; but

there are coins of other metal covered owr with gold

or silver, which are generally supposed to be base

coin; and ba^e or false coin implies true coin of

the name kind and denomination. It has been also

supposed that the fraud was practised by the Mas­

saliot* themselves, to cheat their customers; a sup-

]• -itiiMi which gives them no credit for honesty and

little for sense,

Tlie settlements of Massalia were all made very

early: indeed some of them may have been settle­

ments ot the mother City Phocaea. One of the

earliest of these colonics was Tauroeis or Tauroentum

(a doubtful position), which Caesar (B. C. ii. 4)

calls *' Castellum Massiliensium." The other set­

tlements east of Massalia were Olbia (Enubrs or

Eoubo), Athenopolis [Atiiknopolis], Antipolis

(Autibes), Xicaea (.Vista), and the islands along

this const, the Stoechades, and Lero and Lerina.

West of Massalia was Agatha (Agde), on the

Anions (iierauk), doubtful whether it was a colony

settled by 1'hocaea or Massalia, Rhoda (Rosas),

within the limits of Hispania, was either a Rhodian

or Massaliot colony; even if it was Uhodian, it was

afterwanls under Massalia. Kinporiae (Ampurias),

in Hispania, was also Massaliot; or even Phocaean

(Liv. xxvi. 19) originally. [Kmporiak]. Strabo

speaks of three small Massaliot settlements further

south on the const of Hispania, between the river

Sucro (Jucar) and Carthago Nova (iii. p. 159).

The chief of them, he says, was Hemeruscopium.

[Dianum],

The furthest Phocaean settlement on the south

coast of Spain was Maenace (iii. p. 156), where re­

mains of a Greek town existed in Strabo** time.

There may have t>een other Massaliot settlements

on the Gallic coast, such as Heracles. [Hkkaclka].

StepliAims, indeed, mentions some other Massaliot

cities, but nothing can be made of his fragmentary

matter. There is no good reason for thinking that

the Massaliots founded any inland towns. Arelate

(Aries) would seem the most likely, but it was not

a Greek city; and as to Aveuio (Avignon) and Ca­

bell^ CaroiWort), the evidence is ton small to enable

tis to re» kon them among Massaliot settlements.

There is also the great improbability that the Mas-

haliots either wanted to make inland settlements, or

were able to do it, if, contrary to the practice of

their nation, they had wished it. That Massaliot

merchants visited the interior of Gallia long before

the Roman conquest of Gallia, may be assumed as a

fact.

Probably the downfal of Carthage at the end of

the Third Punic War, and the alliance of Massalia

with Rome, increased the commercial prosperity of

this city: but the Massaliots never became a great

power like Carthage, or they would not have called

in the Romans to help them against two small Li-

gurian tribes. The foundation of the Roman colony

of Narbo (Xarbonne), on the Atax (And*), in a

position which commanded the road into Spain and

to the mouth of the Garonne, must have been detri­

mental to the commercial interests of Massalia.

Strabo (iv. p. 186) mentions Narbo in bis time as the

chief trading place in the Provincia, Both before

Caesar's time and after Massalia was a place of

resort for the Romans, and sometime* selected by

exiles as a residence. (Tac. .4nn. iv. 43, xiiL 47.)

When the Roman supremacy was established ia

Gallia, Massalia had no longer to protect itself

against the natives. The people having wealth and

leisure, applied themselves to rhetoric and phiV>-

sophy; the place became a school far the Gain, was*

studied the Greek language, which came into tnch

common use that contracts were drawn np in Greek.

In Strabos time, that is in the time of Augnatu*

and Tiberius, some of the Romans who were fond U

learning went to Massalia instead of Athens. Agri-

cola, the conqueror of Britannia, and a natrrc o/

Forum Julii, was sent when a boy by a careful

mother to Massalia, where, as Tacitus says (Agrie.

c. 4), "Greek civility was united and tempered

with the thrifty habits of a provincial town" (See

also Tac. Ann\ iv. 44.) The Galli, by their ac­

quaintance with Massalia, became fond of rhetoric,

which has remained a national taste to the prater*

day. They had teachers of rhetoric and philosophy

in their houses, and the towns also hired teachers

for their youth, as they did physicians; for a kind

of inspector of health was a part of the economy of

a Greek town. Circumstances brought three lan­

guages into use at Massalia, the Greek, the Latin,

and the Gallic (Isid. xv., on the authority of Varro).

The studies of the youth at Massalia in the Roman

period were both Greek and Latin. Medicine appears

to have been cultivated at Massalia. Crinas, a

doctor of this town, combined physic and astratngy.

He left an enormous sum of money for repairing the

walls of his native town. He made his fortune at

Rome; but a rival came from Massalia, named

Charmift, who entered on his career by condemning

the practice of all his predecessors. Channis in­

troduced the use of cold baths even in winter, »:

plunged the sick into ponds. Men of rank might

be seen shivering for display under the treatment

of this water doctor. On which Pliny ( xxix. a)

well observes that all these men h anted after repu­

tation by bringing in some novelty, while they

trafficked away the lives of their patients.

The history of Massalia after Caesar's time is

very little known. It is said that there are no im­

perial medals of Massalia. Some tombs and iassenp-

tions are in the Museum of MarnUU.

A great deal has been written about the hntney

of Mas-alia, but it is not worth much. The follow­

ing references will lead to other authorities: Kaool-

Rochette, Jiistoire des Culimies Grwcrjum, a very

poor work; H. Ternaux, Uistoria Jteifmbltea* Mm*-

siiiensium a I\inu>rdiis ad Seronis Tempi* it,

which is useful for the references, but far «w«kw»#>

else; Thierry, Uistoire des Gaulois. [Q. L.J

COIX OF MASAIUA.

MASSITH0LTJ8 (MaatrlOo\os\ s rrrer of Libya,

the source of which Ptolemy (iv. 6. § 8), places ta

the mountain called Theon Ochema, and its * sta-

bouchure" (§ 9) in the Hesperian bay, rWw.**i

Hcspcrium Ccras and the Hypodronitis of Atlfcmota,

