NEAPOLIS. NEAPOLIS. 409

J-i thrtghnt the long wars of the Republic.

(ISLLM; Lit.xxxv. 16.)

Thwfi Xapolis thus passed gradually into the

^:*9 of n mere provincial town of the Roman

trivial titer the passing of the Lex Julia, became

u .riiunr municipal town (Cic pro Balb. 8, ad

fm. m. JO), it continued to be a flourishing and

,'xlut pace. «d retained, to a far greater extent

. a iet Mbrr city in this part of Italy, its Greek

rvn> vi iastitations; while its population was

tii ilacst exclosTelr Greek. Thus Strabo tells

•j "in, is hU time, though they had become Roman

they ttill bad their gymnasia and quin-

rams, with contests of music and gym-

aavrmiaai after the Greek fashion; and retained

. .iinka into Phratries, a circumstance attested

u \* tttnuims still extant. (Strab. T. p. 246;

tnr.i.L T.8J; Boeckh, C. I. vol. iii. p. 715.)

r- !fTtiecj(«of the Republic, the increasing love of

txtom and literature led many of the upper

knkjc^ the Unmans to resort to Neapolis for

awn, or cultivation of these pursuits; while

'i f* »tre attracted by the delightful and luxu-

'suit or the earpassing beauty of the scenery.

I. :<**wd alio hot springs, similar to those of

L^-. L*«fh inferior in number (Strab. I. c); and

u causes combined to render it one of the

a-*-* nvjru of tie Roman nobility. Its pros-

anti neaved a rode shock, in B. c. 82, during the

fr* War « Marios and Sulla, when a body of the

►**«» of the latter, having been admitted by

aw>ry jato the city, made a general massacre of

a> uuinb (Appian, B. C. i. 89); but it seems

»hn» ^aickhr recovered this blow, as it was cer-

atni^rijunj city in the time of Cicero, and

* v-i iucb throughout the period of the Roman

It it not improbable that it received a

*" * rmh colijoista under Sulla, but certainly  
|l" thtn suume tbe title of a Colonia, as it is

teaiv alluded to by Cicero as a Muniripium.

M *Fm. xu'i. SO, ad Att. x. 13.) Under the

ar^ n Sad it in inscriptions bearing the title of

(Groter, Inter, p. 110. 8, p. 373.2);

■ 0 much doubt as to the period when it

'-' it rank. It is, however, noticed as such

[h*.- rra«. tod would seem to have first received

* 'aaeer Claudius, to which subsequent addi-  
k v«re nads under Titus and the Antonines.

P Co** p. 233; Zumpt, de Colon, pp. 259,

* ''*■«. SaUr. 44. 76; Boeckh, C. I. voL iii.  
W^718.)

P"a» as immediate territory, Neapolis had

■*v >Meoed the two important islands of Ca­

pe* Aeaaria (faataa); bat the latter had been

P* froai it by force of arms, probably at the

mi tt fnt war with Rome. Capreae, on tbe

':=i continued subject to Neapolis without

w*v. a "jll the time of Augustus, who, having

Wi (avry Is the adaad, annexed it to the impe-

l * '*T rmng up to tho Neapolitans in ex-

P ta» richer and more important island of

■» (Stes. Aug. 92; Dion Cass. Iii. 43.)

•» Kiractions which had rendered Neapolis

|v*rat awioeare of wealthy Romans under the

r*=c writes with atiD increased force under the

^ la rroaaita and public games continued

Pf- -rWs»:rtl. and the emperors themselves

pi M to preside at them. (Suet. Aug. 98.

r*. Ttfl. Pat. u. 123; Dion Cass, lxiii. 26.)

r**; '-artsre of < Jreek manners, which caused

pb uaoneotly distinguished as "the Greek

city," attracted thither many grammarians and

others; so that it came to acquire a reputation for

learning, and is called by Martial and Columella

"docta Parthenope" (Martial, v. 78. 14; Colum.

x. 134); while its soft and luxurious climate rendered

it the favourite resort of the indolent and effeminate.

Hence Horace terms it " otinsa Neapolis;" and Ovid,

still more strongly, "in otia natsm Parthenopen."

(Hor. Epod. 5. 43; Ovid, Met. xv. 711; Stat. Silv.

iii. 78—88; Sil. Ital. xii. 31.) The coasts on both

sides of it were lined with villas, among which the

most celebrated was that of Vedius Pollio, on the

ridge of hill between Neapolis and Puteoli, to which

he had given the name of Pausilypus (nai/<rlAu»oj);

an appellation afterwards extended to the whole hill

on which it stood, and which retains to the present

day the name of Monte Posilipo. (Dion Cass. liv.

23; Plin. ix. 53. s. 78.) Neapolis was a favourite

residence of the emperor Nero, as well as of his pre­

decessor Claudius; and it was in tbe theatre there

that the former made his first appearance on the

stage, before he ventured to do so publicly at Rome.

(Tac. Ann. xiv. 10, xv. 33; Dion Cass. Ix. 6.) It

is well known also that it was for a considerable

period the residence of Virgil, who composed, or at

least finished, his Georgics there. (Virg. Georg. iv.

564.) Thither, also, his remains were transferred

after his death; and his tomb was still extant there

in the time of the poets Statius and Silius Italicus,

who paid to it an almost superstitious reverence.

The last-named poet himself died at Neapolis, where

he had a villa, which was his favourite place of resi­

dence, as it was also that of Statius, who, in several

passages, appears to allude to it as tbe place of his

birth. (Donat ViL Virg.; Plin. Ep. iii. 7; Mar­

tial, xi. 49; Stat. Silv. iii. 5. 13, iv. 4. 51—55.)

It is clear that Neapolis was at this period a pro­

vincial city of the first class; and though we meet

with little historical mention of it during the later

agea of the Empire, inscriptions sufficiently prove

that it retained its consideration and importance.

It appears to have escaped the ravages of the Goths

and Vandals, which inflicted such severe blows upon

tbe prosperity both of Capua and Nola (Hist. Mis-

cell xv. p. 553); and under the Gothic king Thc-

odoric, Cossiodorus speaks of it as still possessing a

numerous population, and abounding in every kind

of delight, both by sea and land. (Cassiod. Var. vi.

23.) In the Gothic wars which followed, it was

taken by Belisarius, after a long siege, and a great

part of the inhabitants put to the sword, A. D. 536.

(Procop. B. G. i. 8—10.) It was retaken by To-

tila in A. D. 542 (lb. iii. 6—8), but again recovered

by Narses soon after, and continued from this time

subject to the supremacy of the Byzantine Empire,

as a dependency of the exarchate of Ravenna, but

under the government of its own dukes. In the

eighth century Paulus Diaconus still speaks of it as

one of the "opulentissimae urbes" of Campania.

(Hist. Lang. ii. 17.) It was about this period that

it threw off the yoke of the Byzantine emperors, and

continued to enjoy a state of virtual independence,

until it was conquered in A. D. 1140 by the Normans,

and became thenceforth the capital of the kingdom

of Naples.

It is certain that the ancient city of Neapolis did

not occupy nearly so great a space as tbe modern

Kaplet, which is the largest and most populous city

in Italy, and contains above 400,000 inhabitants.

It appears to have extended on the E. as far as the

river Scbethus, a small stream still called the Sebeto,

