THKTUU PROM. r.<27 TKEVIDOX.

romcntory of Numidia at the W. point of tin Sinus

lacoita. (Strab. xvii. p. 829, 832.) It probably

shred its name from the numerous cares in the cliffs,

hteli&re still the larking places of the piratical tribes

tlhU coast. Now Sebba Km. [T. H. D.]

TRETUMPROM. (Tprrrii>',Staa*iim. §327), the

IV. promontory of Crete now called Grabuta, the

b»TTCT of Ptolemy. [E. B. J.]

TRETCa [Aroos, p. 201, b.]

TRKVA (Tpnooo), a town of the Saxones in

orth-westem Germany (Ptol. ii. 11. § 27), which

lot: hare been situated somewhere on the Trace,

nun further details are known, it is impossible

i fix its site with any degree of certainty. [L. S.]

TKKVENTUM or TEREVEXTUM (Etk. Tre-

ralinu, I'liru; but inscriptions have Terventinas

id Tereventinas: Trmntu), a town of Samnium,

■ tire country of the IVntri, situated on the right

i.-.k of the Trinius (Triijno), not far from the

'ml iera of the Frentani. Its name is not noticed

i h itory, bnt Pliny mentions it among the muni-

|ul towns of Samnium in his time: and we learn

om the Liber Coloniarum that it receiTed a Roman

'Ifly, apparently nnder the Triumvirate (Plin. iii.

I. s. 17; Lib. Colon, p. 23S). It is there spoken

is having been (hrice besieged (u ager ejus ... post

Hum obsidionem adsignatus est"), probably during

■ Social War and the civil wars that followed;

it we hare no other account of these sieges; and

name is not elsewhere mentioned. But from

lutirir, remains, as well as inscriptions, it appears

■ have been a place of considerable importance, as

'II as of municipal rank. The modern Trecento,

hicli is still the see of a bishop and the capital of

>' surrounding district, stands on a hill above the

vrr Trigno, but the rains of ancient buildings and

a/ments of masonry are scattered to a considerable

ii-n! through the valley below it. (Romanelli,

a, ii. p. 473.) The inscriptions which have been

■emend there are given by Mommscn (Inter.

!(. pp. 269, 270). [E H. B.]

TREVERI or TREVIRI (Tonotipot, TpiSnpoJ,

lei). There is authority for both forms of the

bm. The position of the Treviri is determined

several passages of Caesar. The Treviri bordered

the Rhine (B. G.UL 11, iv. 10), and south of them

■n? the Rhine were the Triboci or Tribooci. Tlie

iuenna Silva extended through the middle of the

ntory of the Treviri from the Rhine to the eom-

ncirinent of the territory of the Remi (B. G. v. 3).

>e Treviri were separated from the Germans by the

me (B. G. vii. 63, viii. 25); the Ubii were their

rbbours on the opposite side of the Rhine (/.'.

29,35). In Caesar's time the Treviri differed little

m the Germans in their way of living and their sa-

T temper. Tacitus remarks (de Mot. Germ. c.

) that the Treviri and Ncrvii affected a Germanic

rin, and it is probable that the Treviri were

[ad with Germans, but Caesar supposed them to

a Gallic people. Mela (iii. 2) calls them the most

'<vrued of the Belgae. When Hieronymua speaks

the resemblance between the language of the

lata* of Asia and of the Treviri, he means to say

>: the Treviri are Galli [Galatia, Vol. I. p. 931].

abo (iv. p. 194) speaks of the Ncrvii as being

rman. He says: "The Nervii are neighbours of

Treviri, and they (the Nervii) are also a German

pie;" which remark about the Ncrvii being also

rman does not refer to the Treviri, but to the Tri-

i, whom be had just spoken of as a German nation

ich had settled on the Gallic side of the Rhine

It seems impossible to determine whether Caesar

includes the Treviri among the Belgae or the Celtae.

Some geographers include them in the Gallia of

Caesar in the limited sense, that is, in the country of

the Celtae, which lay between the Garonne and the

Seine, and between the Ocean and the Rhine. If this

determination is correct, the Mediomatrici also of

course belong to Caesar's Gallia in the limited sense.

[Mkoiohatkici. ]

The Treviri are often mentioned by Caesar, for

they bad a strong body of cavalry and infantry, and

often gave him trouble. From one passage (B. G.

vi. 32) it appears that the Segni and Condrusi,

Gentian settlers in Gallia, were between the Treviri

and the Eburones; and the Condrusi and Eburone*

were dependents i f the Treviri (B. G. iv. 6). Caesar

constructed his bridges over the Rhine in the territory

of the Treviri (B. G. vL 9); and Strabo speaks of a

bridge over the Rhine in the territory of the Treviri.

It appears then that tho Treviri occupied a large

tract of country between the Mosa (Maat) and the

Rhine, which country was intersected by the lower

course of the Mosella (Motel), for Augusta Trevi-

rorum (Trier), on the Mosella, was the chief town

of the Treviri in the Roman imperial period and

probably a town of the Treviri in Caesar's time. It

is not possible to fix the exact limits of the Treviri

on the Rhine, either to the north or the south.

When the Germans were settled on the west side of

the Rhine by Agrippa and after bis time, the

Treviri lost part of their territory; and some modern

writers maintain that they lost ull their country on

the Rhine, a conclusion derived from a passage of

Pliny (iv. c. 17), but a conclusion by no means

certain. Another passage of Pliny, cited by Sueto­

nius (Calig. c. 8), says that Caligula was born

"in Treveris, vico Ambiatino, supra Contiuentes,"

and this passage places the Treviri on the Rhine.

Ptolemy in his geography gives the Treviri no

place on the Rhine: he assigns the land on the

west bank of the river to the Gennania In­

ferior and Gennania Superior. The bishopric of

Trier used to extend from the Moat to the Rhine,

and along the Rhine from the Akr below Andernack

as far south as Bingen. The limits of the old

country of the Treviri and of the diocese may have

been the same, for we find many examples of this

coincidence in the geography of Gallia. The rugged

valley of the Ahr would be a natural boundary of

the Treviri on the north.

Tacitus gives the Treviri the name of Socii (Ann.

i. 63); and in his time, and probably before, they

bad what the Romans called a Curia or senate.

The name of the Treviri often appears in the history

of the war with Civilia (Tacit. Uitt. iv.). The Treviri

under the Empire were in that part of Gallia which

was named Belglca, and their city Augusta Trevi-

rorum was the chief place, and under the later

emperors frequently an imperial residence. [At -

ci'sta Trkviroruk.] [G. il]

TREVIDON, a place in Gallia, mentioned by Si-

donius ApoUinaris (IVopempt.), the position of which

is partly determined by the fact of the poet fixing

Trevidon in the mountainous region of Central

France, and partly by the existence of a place named

Treve on the boundary of the old province of

Kouergne, and on a little river named Tretael.

The mountain in which the Tretetel rises (Let-

perou) is the

"Vicinum nimis hen! jugum Ratenis"

of Sidonius. [Rutehi.] [G. L.]

