SlISUDATA. 1051 SYAGRdfc PROM.

«ts, (here seems to Iihtc been no city of im-

■■laiice in Snsiana, excepting Sasa itself. [V.]

STSUDATA (XowrovftdTa), a place in the south-

rf Germany, probably in the country inhabited

f (he Silingae, at the foot of the Vandalici Monte*.

i*wL u. 11. § 28.) Its exact site cannot be ascer-

md. [L. S.]

HJIUUL, t town and fortress in the interior of

imiidia, where Jugurtha had a treasury. (Sail.

.,.37.) [T.H.D.]

SUTBIUM (loirptov: Fth. Sutriensis: Sutri),

atj of Etruria, situated in the southern part of

ba country. 32 miles from Rome, on the line of

w Via Cassia. There is no doubt that it was

i inrient Etruscan site, but apparently a small

ma, and in all probability a mere dependency of

it of its more powerful neighbours. It was not

II after the fall of Veil that the Romans carried

ssr arms as far as Sutrium, which they first

vk.il in B. c. 391, with what success is uncertain

Mod. xiv. 98); but it must hare fallen into their

oris either in that or the following year, as we

tl it in a state of dependency on Rome immediately

ha the Gaulish invasion. (Liv. vi. 3.) The very

v after that event (it. c. 389) the neighbouring

Inucans laid siege to Sutrium with a large force;

»city fell into their hands, but was recovered (as

• tradition related) by the dictator Camillus on

• mm day. (Liv. vi. 3; Diod. xiv. 117.) Very

wly the same story is told again in B. c. 385,

in tbe city was half taken by the Etruscans, but

wered by Camillas and Valerius. (Liv. vi. 9.)

doubtless with a view to guard against the

petition of these surprises that two years after-

irii Sotrium received a Roman colony, B. c. 383

«ll. PaL i. 14), and henceforth became, in con-

Brtioa with the neighbouring Nepete, one of the

sa'pal frontier fortresses of the Roman terri-

J on this side; hence Livy terms it "claustra

Bjriae." (Liv. ix. 32.) We do not find any

iw[timt mention of it in history till B. c. 311,

■a the Etruscans again laid siege to the city

& their united forces, but were defeated in a

■t battle under its walls by Acmilius Barbnla.

i. L e.) The next year (a. c. 310) they were

• to renew the siege at the opening of the cam-

rn. but were once more defeated by the consul

Fabius Maximus, and took refuge in the Ci-

i:n forest, which lay only a few miles distant,

i 33, 35.) But this barrier was now for the

I t:me passed by the Roman arms, and hence-

a the wars with the Etruscans were transferred

i mure northerly region. From this time, there-

, we hear bat little of Sutrium, which was, how.

', still for a time the outpost of the Roman power

ilie side of Etruria. (Liv. x. 14.) Its name

rxt mentioned after a long interval during the

nd Punic War, as one of the Coloniae Latinae,

lb, in B. c. 209, declared their iuability to bear

longer the burdens of the war. It was in con-

mce punished at a later period by the imposition

till heavier contributions. (Liv. xxvii. 9, xxix.

i Its territory was one of those in which per-

uon was given to the exiled citizens of Capua to

a. (Id. xiTt. 34.)

atrium continued under the Roman government

r a small and unimportant country town: it is

nois again mentioned in history, at the out-

k of tin Perusian War (b. c. 41), when it was

pied by Agrippa, in order to cut off the commu-

lioos of Lucius Antonius with Rome. (Appian,

B. C. v. 31.) But its position on the Cassion Way

preserved it from falling into decay, like so many of

the Etruscan cities, under the Roman Empire: it is

noticed by all the geographers, and its continued

existence down to the close of the Western Empire

is proved by inscriptions as well as the Itineraries.

We learn that it received a fresh colony under

Augustus, in consequence of which it bears in inscrip­

tions the titles " Colonia Julia Sutrina." (Strab. v.

p. 226; Plin. iii. 5. s. 8; PtoL iii. 1. § 50; Ilin. Ant.

p. 286; Tab. Pent; Lib. CuL p. 217; Gruter, Inter.

p. 302. 1; Zumpt, de Col. p. 351.)

The modern town of Sutri is but a poor place

with only about 2000 inhabitants, but retains its

episcopal see, which it has preserved throughout the

middle ages. It occupies the site of the nncient

city, as is shown by many fragments of columns and

other architectural ornaments built into the i

houses, as well as by some portions of the i

walls, which resemble in their 6tyle of construction

those of Nepe and Falerii. The situation is, like

that of most of the towns in this ]«rt of Etruria,

on a nearly isolated hill bounded by precipitous cliffs

or banks of tufo rock, of no great elevation, ami

surrounded by small glens or ravines on all m i. .

In the cliffs which bound these are excavated

numerous tombs, of no great interest. But the

most remarkable relic of antiquity at Sutri is its

amphitheatre, which is excavated in the tufo nn k,

and is in thus respect unique of its kind. It is,

however, of small size, and, though irregular in

construction, its architectural details are all of a

late character: hence it is probable that it is really

of Roman and Imperial times, though great im­

portance has been sometimes attached to it as a

specimen of an original Etruscan amphitheatre. Its

anomalies and irregularities of structure are pro­

bably owing only to the fact that it was worked out

of a previously existing stone-quarry. (Dennis's

Etruria, vol. i. pp. 94—97; Nibbv, Dintirrni,

vol. iii. pp. 142, 143.) [E. H. B.]

SUZAE1 (Sovfaioi), a tribe of ancient Persia,

noticed by Ptolemy (vi, 4. § 3). Lassen considers

from this name that they were connected with the

people of Susa, and that they were of the same

race as the Uxii, one of the mountain races of Sn-

siana. (Ersch. u. Griiber's EncycL iii. sect. vol.

xvii. p. 438.) [V.]

SYAGROS PROMONTORIUM (Joorypoj Skoo),

a promontory of the S. coast of Arabia, at the eastern

extremity of the Adramitae, the westernmost of the

gulf of the Sachalitae, placed by Ptolemy in long.

90°, lat. 14° (vi. 7. § 11). He comments on an

error of his predecessor, Marinus, who, he says, plai es

the gulf > u halites on the W. of Cape Syagros, while

all who had navigated those seas distinctly asserted

that the country Sachalitis and its synonymous bay

were to the E. of Syagros (i. 17. §•} 2, 3). Mara-

anus (p. 23, ap. Hudson Gevgr. Mm. torn, i.) agrees

with Ptolemy. The author of the Periplus ascribed

to Arrian seems, however, to confirm the testimony

of Marinus, by placing the Sinus Sachalitcs next to

Cane Emporium, between that and Syagros Prouion-

tonum, and naming the bay to the E. of Syagros,

Omana, which he reckons as 600 stadia in width;

but as he mentions still further to the E., Moscha

Portus, as a magazine for the spicery of Sachalitis,

which he there more fully describes, it is possible

that he may have included all the country as far E.

as Moscha under this name. It is at least clear that

the Omana Sinus could be no part of the present

