KO.MA. 821

AHCH OF DRUSUS.

inKtimia; a few which were contained within

■Snl buondarie* of the city. They appear to

I mmmi immediately outside the Porta

An to egressu*« porta Capena, cum Ca-

u ^rifMoum. Serviliorum, Metellorum sepulcra

k cm putaa illoa?" Cic. Tuic. i. 7); and

t nan of them were included in the larger

of the walls of Aurelian. The tomb of

*», slain by the hand of her victorious brother,

■ t* bare been situated just outside the gate.

-1-31) Fortunately themoht interesting of those  
tally Cicero—the Tomb or thr Scipios

«di in existence. It was discovered in 1780 in

ftp* Saui, on the left-hand side of the Via

1 i tfttle beyond the spot where the Via

■ tranches off from it, arid about 400 paces

I U« Porta S. Sebastiano. Ita entrance is

M by a single tall cypress tree. In Livy's

lit tab was still adorned with three statues,

to W those of Publius and Lucius Scipio, and

'pan tanias, who waa interred in the sepulchre

I Jaauna. (Hieron. Chron. p. 379, Rone.) It

■rt last the sarcophagus of L. Scipio Barbatus,

I ■ %. C 198, now preserved in the Vatican,

t«T-wrfd, together with several monumental

> *tfb inscriptions relating to other members

'family, or to their connections and freedinen.

■Viuls were carried off to the Vatican and

swrTea in their stead. The most remarkable

■ aurnationi are that of Scipio Barbatus; of

■ Larius Cornelius Scipio, the conqueror of

a\ rami in b. c. 259; of Publius Scipio, son

nruu Majnr, whom feeble state of health is

i »• by Cicero (Cato Maj. 11), and whose

■I fOpk shows that he died young; of L.

hi Sofia, grandson of the conqueror of Spain,

M to a« fathers at the early age of 20; and

of the same name, the son of Asiaticus,

ba* fti S3, wboae title to honour is summed

1 Ibt tannic words, " Pater regem Antiochum

V A eanplete account of this tomb will be

■> Vammi (Von. degli Seipkmi, Rom. 1785)

and in the Beschrtibung Romt (vol. iii. p. 612,

seq.), where the various epitaphs are given.

Also on the left-hand side of the Via Appia in

going from the Porta Capena was the Mausoleum of

Seftimius Severus, which he caused to be erected

for himself in his lifetime, in imitation of his Septi-

zonium, but probably on a reduced scale. (Spart

Geta, 7.) In the same neighbourhood are some of

those Columbaria.or subterranean chambers, which

formed the common resting-places for the ashes of

persons of a lower condition. One of these, not far

from the tomb of the Scipios, is said to contain the

remains of the courtiers and domestics of the

Caesars, from Julius to Nero. Among others there

is an inscription to M. Valerius Creticus, with a

bust The walls, as well as a large pier in the middle,

arc hollowed throughout with vaulted recesses like

large pigeon-holes, — whence the name.— in which

are contained the ashes of the dead. The Mauso­

leum of Caecilia Metella, which stands on

the Via Appia, about 2 miles outside the Porta S.

Sebastiano, though it does not properly belong to

our Bubiect, demands, from the magnificence of its

construction, as well as from Byron's well-known

lines {Childe Harold, canto iv.), a passing word of

notice here.

The remaining part of the district, or that form­

ing the 12th Regio, and lying to the W. of the

Via Appia, does not present many monument* of

interest The most striking one, the Thermae An-

toninianae, or baths of Cararalla, will be spoken of

under its proper head. "We have already treated of

the Bona Dea Snbsaxanea and of the Isium. Close

to the baths just mentioned Caracalla built the

street called Nova Via, reckoned one of the hand­

somest in Rome. (Spart. Carac. 2; Aur. Vict

Caa. 21.) Respecting the Furtuna Mammosa. we

know nothing more than that the Bans Cnpilo/ma

mentions a street of the same name in this neigh­

bourhood. In the later period of the Empire thia

district appears to have contained several splendid

palaces, as the Septem Domus Partiiorum, the

3 c 3

