498 OSCI. ORTOSPEDA.

leading through Bactriana met at this place; hence

the notice in Strabo (/. <•.) of the rj tx BaxTpuiv

TpittSos. Groskurd has (as apjeurs to ns), on no

sufficient ground, identified Ortosnana with the pre­

sent Kandahar. If the reading of some of theMSS.

of Ptolemj be correct, Kabul may be a corruption

of KdSoupa.

It is worthy of note, that in the earlier editions

of Ptolemj (vi. 18. § 3) mention is made of a

people whom he calls KaSnKirat; in the latest

of Kobbe (Tauchnitz, 184*1) thp name is changed

to BmXjtoi. It is not improbable that Ptolemj

here is sneaking of Kabul, as Lassen has observed.

(/W. AUertkturu. vol. i. p. 29.) The three muds

maj be, the pane by liamitin, that by the //*Wii-

Kitxh, and that from Awkrah to Khawar. [V.]

ORTOSPEDA. [Oroapbda].

OKTY'GIA. [Dklos.]

OKTY'GIA. [Stracusb.]

ORU'DH (to 'Opov&ia Zp-n, Ptol. vii. 1, §§ 25.

36), a chain <>f mountains in India intra Gangem,

which were, according to Ptolemy, the source of the

river Tvnna (now Pcnnais). It is difficult now to

identify them with certainty, but Forbiger conjec­

tures that they mav be represented bv the present

Ndla-MelltL' '[V.]

ORYX. [Arcadia, Vol. I. p. 193, a.]

OSCA. 1. ("0<T*a, Ptol. ii. 6. § 08), a town of

the Ilergetes in the N. of Hispania Tarraconentia,

on the road from Tarraeo and Uerda to Caesar-

augusta (/Cm. Ant. pp. 391, 451), and under the

jurtMliction of the last-named city. Pliny alone (iii.

3. s. 4) places the Oacenaea in Yescitania, a dis­

trict mentioned nowhere else. It was a Roman

colony, and had a mint. We learn from Plutarch

{Serf. c. 14) that it was a large town, and the place

where Sertorioj died. It is probably the town called

Ih-oscin ('Wto&Kav) by Strabo, in an apparentlj

corrupt passage (iii. p. 1 r» 1 j r. Ukert, vol. ii. pt 1.

p. 451.) It seems to have possessed silver mines

(Lit, xxxiv. 10, 40, xl. 43). unless the u argenturn

Oscense " here mentioned merely refers to the minted

silver of the town. Florez, however (iferf. ii. 520),

has pointed out the impossibility of one place sup­

plying such vast quantities of minted silver as we

find recorded in ancient writers under the terms

"nrgentum Oscense," " sicnatum Oscense ;" and is

of opinion that Oscense in these phrases means

Spanish, bv a corruption from the national name,

Kus-eara. * (Cf. Caen. B.C. i. 60; Veil. Pat. ii.

30.) It is the modern Ifuesca in Arragon. (Florez,

Meti. ii. p. 513; Seetint, p. 176; Mionnet, i. p. 46,

Suppl. i. p. 92; Murray's Handbook of Spain,

p. 448.)

2. A town of the Tnrdetani in Hispania liaetira,

which some have identified with It tie scar, but

which Ukert (vol. ii. pt. 1. p. 370) thinks must be

sought to the \V. of that place. (Ptol. ii. 4. § 12;

Plin. ii. 1. s. 3.) The pretended coins of this town

are not genuine. (Florez, Med. I. c.; Sestini, p. 78;

Mionnet, i. p. 43, SoppL i. p. 40; Sestini, p. 78;

Ukert, I.e.) [T. H. D.]

COIN OF OSCA.

OSCELA. [Lkpoxtti.]

OSCI or OPICI (in Greek always "Orast: tar

original form of the name was Greets, *hki an

still used by Ennitts, up. Fest. t. r. p. 198). iMB*

of Central Italy, who at a very early penal tvfm

to have been spread over a considerable part of ta

peninsula. So far as we can ascertain thev tenth

original occupants, at the earliest time of whkaa

have anything like a definite account, of the crtn

part of Italy, from Campania and the boriaH

Latinm to the Adriatic; while on the S. thet d

joined the Oenotrians, whom there is pood r-artl

regard as a Pelaagic tribe. Throughout thiscM

they were subsequently conquered and rrtaei1

subjection by tribes called Sabines or Sabellii»,tj

issued from the lofty mountain tracts of the A|C

nines N. of the territory then occupied by tbeOaaJ

The relation between the Sabellians and the (an]

is very obscure; but it is provide that the

were comparatively few in number, and sd*o

language of the conquered people, as we kn

tlie language both of the Ciinpanians and S

in later times was Oscan. (Liv. x. 20.) Vtafcl

remained unmixed, or had been modified

degree by the language of the Sabellians, whanjj

probably a cognate dialect, we have no n

determining, as alt our existing monuments

language are of a date long suose^uent to 1

bellian conquest. The ethnical affinities

Oscans, and their relations to the SabellianM

races of Central Italy, have been already cai

under the article Jtaua: it only remains ta

few words concerning what is known of tat

language.

Niebuhr has justly remarked that **tht

language is by no means an in explicable

like the Etruscan. Had a single book ii

preserved, we should be perfectly able tod

out of itself." (Nieb. vol. i. p. 68.) Even

limited means actually at our command »•

in great part to translate the extant I

; this language, few and mostly brief as I

and though the meaning of many words

uncertain or unknown, we are able to I

distinct conclusions concerning the general onj

and affinities of the language. The

cloeelj connected with the Latin; not

Latin was with the Greek and other

the great Indo-Teutonic family. M

the same original stock, but as connate

allied dialects. This affinity may be t

ont the grammatical forms and in^*-tna»-

langnage not less than in the vocabulary el

words. The Latin was, however, in all

a composite language, derived from a

this "-can element with one more clowly I

the Greek, or of Pelasgic origin (XatutV

while the 0»can doubtless represents the I

Central Italy in its more unmixed firm,

cases the older and rnder specimens of

retain Oscan forms, which were laid aa

more refined stages of the language: *

termination of the ablatice in flj, which Id

the Duilian and other old Latin in^rrrpjai

appears to have been universal in Osoaav i

The few notices of Oscan words which

preserved to us by Latin writers, as Veal

&c, are of comparatively little importance. .

knowledge of the langnage is derivr-d frae

inscriptions; of which the three niT.pert

1. the Tabula Bantina, a bronze table: fam

