a o 1> SAMKIL'M. SAMM0N1UM.

vol. ii. p. 415), and Rom at the village of Phfflia,

on the southern side of Mt. Tricaranon, across

which is tlie shortest pass from the I'hliasia into

the Arrive plain. (jPeJbjxmnet, p. 27.)

SAMMO'NIUM. [Samohium.]

SA'MNIUM (tj 2oWiy, Pol., Strab.: Etk. Sam-

his, pi. Samnites, Zawlrat, Pol., Strab., &.c.;2:iju-

vito.1, l'tol.), one of the principal regions or districts

of Central Italy. The name was sometimes used in

a more extensive, sometimes in a more restricted,

sense, the Sainnites being a numerous and powerful

people, who consisted of several distinct tribes,

while they had founded other tribes in their imme­

diate neighbourhood, who were sometimes included

under the same appellation, though they did not

properly form a part of the nation, llut Samniutn

projKT, according to the more usual sense of the

name (exclusive of the Krentaiii. hut including the

Hirpitii), was a wholly inland district, bounded on

the N. by the Marsi, Peligni, and Frentani, on the

K. by Apulia, on the S. by Lucania, and on the SW.

and \V. by Campania and Latiara,

I. General Description.

The territory thus limited was almost wholly

mountainous, being tilled Dp with the great moun­

tain masses and ramifications of the Apennines,

which in this part of their course have lost even

more than elsewhere the character of a regular chain

or range, and consist of an irregular and broken

mass, the configuration of which it is not very easy

to understand. But as the whole topography of

Samnium depends upon the formation and arrange­

ment of these mountain groups, it will be necessary

to examine them somewhat in detail.

1. In the northern part of the district, adjoining

the Marsi and Peligni, was a broken and irregular

mass of moon tains, containing the sources of the

Sagrus (&tngro), and extending on both sides of

the valley of that river, as far as the frontiers of

the Frentaui. This was the land of the Cakackni.

the most northerly of the Samnite tribes, whose chief

city was Aufidena, in the valley of the Sagrus, about

A miles above Castel rli Sangro, now the chief town

of the surrounding district.

2. The valley of the Sagrus was separated by a

mountain pass of considerable elevation from the val­

ley of the Vulturous, a river winch is commonly con­

sidered as belonging to Campania; but its sources, as

well as the upper part of its course, and the valleys of

all its earliest tributaries, were comprised in Sam­

nium. Aescrn'u, situated on one of these tributaries,

was the principal town in this part of the coun­

try; while Venafrum, about 15 miles lower down

the valley, was already reckoned to belong to Cam­

pania. This portion of Samnium was one of the

richest and most fertile, and least mountainous of

the whole country. From its proximity to Latium

and Campania, the valley of the Vulturnus was one

of the quarters which was most accessible to the

lioinan arms, and served as one of the highroads

into the enemy's country.

3. From Aesernia a pass, which was probably

used from very early times, and was traversed by

a road in the days of the Roman Empire, led to

Borianora in the valley of the Tifernus. This

city was situated in the very heart of the Sam­

nite country, surrounded on all sides by lofty

mountains. Of these the most important is that

on the SW., the Monte Matese, at the present

day one of the most celebrated of the Apennines,

but for which no ancient name has

The name of Mons Tifernus may indeed fcart Uses

applied to the whole group; but it is mar? pnjfat&a

that it was confined, as that of Monte fli/ffwi)tt

the present day, to one of the ofttborta or mmt

summits of the Matese, in which the aciuai svna

of the Tifernus were 6'ituated. The name afafate

is given to an extensive group or mass f-f maaatam

rilling up the whole space between Bt/jam (B«i-

anum) and the valley of the Yulturnui, so that a

sends down its ramifications and underfills qaks

the valley of that river, whence they sweep nai

by the valley of the Calor, and thence by Jfava*

and Sep'mo to the sources of the Tamanu. 1ft

highest summit, the MonU J/t/rtto, SW. rf

j'inoy rises to a height of 6744 feet. TUangsd

gronp of mountains, clothed with extensive ime\

and retaining the snow on its summits for s In

part of the year, must always have been ia

cessible to civilisation, and offered a camjaittk

rier to the arms of an invader. There could ■

have been any road or frequented pass betweea 1

which followed the valley of the Vulturous ind X

which skirts the eastern base of tbe Maietctrm

valley of the Calort to that of the Tarusro. Tto;

is the line followed by the modern road from .Vena

Campobasso.

4. N. of Btjano the mountains are lea

vated, and have apparently no consptcsoas (<

least no celebrated) summits; but the wboJe

from Bojano to the frontier of the Frentani.

up with a mass of rugged mountain*, extending

Aynon-e and the valley of the Sanffrv to tot

bourhood of Campobasso. This irtooataaMi

is traversed by the deep and narrow valleys

Trupto (Trinius) and Bifemo (Tifrroo*

carry off the waters of the central chain,

affording any convenient means of cooum

The mountain tracts extending on all tides «f

anum constituted the country of tbe l'lsn

most powerful of all the Samnite tribes.

5. S. of the Mattse, and h* pa rated from

the valley of the Calor (CoJorr), is the

•>f the Mons Tabi r.ni s, still called Htm*

bti7~no, somewhat resembling the MaUae ia

racter, but of inferior elevation as well m

It formed, together with tbe adjoining

the land of the Caudixi, apparently

smallest of the Samnite tribes, and the

pass of the Caudine Forks was situated i

Closely connected with Mount Taburnoa,

a manner dependent on it, though separated

by the narrow valley of the Isclerv, is

which extends from Arpaja to near G

is of very inferior elevation, bnt rises

steeply from the plain of Campania, of which

to form the natural boundary. The

this ridge nearest to Capua is the Moxs Ti

celebrated in the campaigns of Hannibal,'

he so long looked down upon the plains

6. At the eastern foot of )Ions Ti"

situated Beneventum, the chief town of tbe

and which, from its peculiar position, was i

ner the key of the whole district inhabited

people. It stood in a plain or broad

by the junction of the Calor with its

Sabatus and Tamanis, so that considerable

opened up from it in all directions into tbt

The Calor itself is not only the n*»t

the tributaries of the Vulturous, bnt at tha

its junction with that river, about 20

