ROMA. 827 IiOMA.

rm irmUmed to divert himself with bis court.

, M PoUio, Gall bw>, c. 17.) The temple of Mi-

t-ra Ifediea mentioned in the Notitia may pro-

■41; km stood is the neighbourhood; but the

\-*ao( a question seems too luge to be identified

watt.

Ashoj Ibe profane monuments of this district we

wj oal occasion to mention once or twice an object

xjClhi TkhI'Hiis or Makivs. Valerius Maxi-

2U rtittM thit Marius erected two tropaea (vi. 9.

[ftjissa that these must hare been on the Esqui-

m iffem from a passage of the same author (ii.

L j stated s little while ago respecting the site

iiu titsr of Febris. A building which stands at

* jtudiai of the Via di S. hibuma and Via di  
H.t.yim a little way outside the ancient Porta

^tuiias bore daring the middle ages the name of

'es^im Marii, or Cimbrum, and was adorned with

saw Kolptorad trophies which were removed in

k fn-iftili of Status V. to the balustrade of the

iei Campidoglio, where they still remain.

W> Ana. sn. 1U3, ap. MabilL Mui. ltal ii. p.

tl. l'»fjjo,de Tor. tort. p. 8, ed. Par. 1723.)

ur» an be no doubt, however, that the building

i eaJW was no temple, but tbe caitellum of an

wlstl and is in all probability the object men-

«» in the Xotitia as the Nympheim Divi

ii-tHDai. It must hare been one of the prin-

fsv at alia of the Aqua Julia, and from the tro-

■l vbieh stood in the neighbourhood having

■ sffued to its adornment it was mistaken

i l*»r age for a temple erected by Marius.

ImUcaz. p. 156, seq. : Preller, Regimen,

m.)

btta this Xymphaeum and the Porta Esquilina

=*» the Alters CiALUEM, which must have

""•e1 the ancient Via Praenestina. It is a simple

■ d inrertioe, and we learn from the inscription

■ s% which is still legible, that it was erected by

■Kara M. Aurelius Victor in honour of the em-

* 'juiienua and his consort Salonina. Originally

■ ane smaller arches on each side of it {Spec.

*■ -Vosa. tab. 24), but at present only the middle  
rratns.

to this arch and between it and tbe basilica

'Jfsrio ilaggiore, lay the Fokum Escjiili-

■ a*] Mac Eia.i m Liviaju'm. This position

at oacehom is certain. The basilica just named

> knit "juxta Macellum Liviae." (Anastas.

I^ri and V. Silt. III.) That it was close to

*»h «f liaiheuus appears from the Ordo Ro-

(" Intrana smb arcum (Gallieni) ubi di-

r UscelJam Lunanum (Livianum) progredilur

'nrapiuTu Mara qooti dicitur Cirabrum," Ann.

«Vp. 141.) And the church of 5. Vito close

was designated as "in Macello." (An.

r«a. Am A u. c 6.) But it is a more diffi-

•,"«»Uou to determine whether tlie Forum Es-

ud Macellum Livianum were distinct ob-

I m one and the ean.e. We know that the Fo-

i i^Suiifinm was in existence in B. c. 88, since

> VKUiiaed by Appi»n (B. C. i. 58) as the

* •d the struggle between Marius and Sulla.

■ Sster (Roma neJr Anno 1838, torn. ii. p.

i timing that tbe inacellum and forum were

regarded it as founded by M. Livius Sa-

*- who was rensor with Claudius Nero, B. c.  
L btjt this view is unsupported by any autho-

, sat is it probable that tbe forum bad two

*-*!**»; whence it seems most likely that the

founded by Augustus, and named after his consort

Livia. (Preller, Regional, p. 131.)

There was also a PottTicua Liviae somewhere

on the Exquiline, named in the Notitia in the 3rd

Region after the baths of Titus. It was a qua­

drangular porticus ('fpio-Tfwi'), built by Augustus,

b. cl 14, on the site of the house of Vedius Pollio,

which he bad inherited. (Dion Cass. liv. 23.) As

the same author (lv. 8) calls it a rtuivurua, we

may conclude that it contained the Temple or

Concord mentioned by Ovid. (Fast. vi. 633.) It

is alluded to by Strabo (v. p. 236), and by both

the Plinys. (xiv. 3; Ep. i. 5; cf. Becker, Ilandb.

p. 542, Antic, p. 78.) We also read of a Pokticls

Julia, built in honour of Cains and Lucius Caesar

(Dion Cass. Ivi. 27, as emended by Merkel ad Ov.

Fiut. p. cxli.), but its situation cannot be deter­

mined.

Near the church of S. Croce in Gertualemme,

towards the side of the Porta Maggiore, he the

ruins of a large building already alluded to, which

in the middle ages bore the name of Sessomum.

We have remarked that in the Kxcerpta Valeriana

at the end of Ammianus Marcellinus it is called a

palace (" in palatio, quod appellatur Sessorium,"

it Odoac. 69). It is identified by a passage in

Anastasius stating that the church of S. Croce was

erected there. ( Fit Silrett. p. 45, Blanch.)

Also near the same church, but on the other side

of it, and built into the wall of Aureliun, are the re­

mains of a considerable amphitheatre which are

usually identified as the Ajipihtiikatiu .m Cas-

TKiiNSE of the Xotitia. Becker, however (Ilandb.

p. 552, scq.), denies this identity, his chief objec­

tion being the great space which the 5th Regio

must have occupied if this building is included in

it, and holds that the true Amphitheatrum Cas-

trense must have been near the Castra Praetoria.

There are, however, no traces of the remains of an

amphitheatre in that direction, and Becker acknow­

ledges (Ilandb. p. 558) that he is unable to gire

any name to that by S. Croce. But there could not

have been many structures of this description in

Rome, and on the whole it seems must reasonable to

conclude with Preller (Regionen, p. 132) that the

one in question was the Castrense; especially as we

know from Procopius (B. G. i. 22. seq.) that there

was a vivarium, or place for kipping wild beasts

used in the sports of the amphitheatre, close to the

Porta Praenestina.

In the valley under this amphitheatre were the

Gardens am> Cikcus of Ki.agahalis (Lampr.

Iltliog. 14, 23), where the obelisk was found which

now stands on the promenade on the Pincian (Li-

gorio, Stii Cerchi, p. 3 j Canina, Indie, p. 178).

Just outside the Porta Mungiore is the curious

Monument of El rvsaces the baker, which has

been spoken of above, p. 760.

The remaining monuments in the district under

consideration are few and unimportant. The Atollo

Sandaliaiui s mentioned in the Svtilia in the 4th

Region was one of those statues which Augustus

erected in the different Vici. (Suet. Aug. 57.)

We have said that the temple of Fort una Seta stood

in the Virus Sandaliarius: und as this temple was

included in the domain of the gulden liou-e of Nero

j (Plin. xxxvi. 46) we may conclude that it was in

or near the Carinae. (Becker, Ilandb. p. 561.)

The Coiaishei m will be described in a separate

section. The 3rd Region, in which it was situated,

must doubtless have contained a splendid Temple of

