MAARATH. MACEDONIA. 213

metropolis. It U not now certain where it stood,

but some have identified it with Tamantadawe.

Some MSS. read Naagrammum, but Maagrammum

must be correct, as its form shows its Sanscrit origin.

Lassen has supposed it stood at the SE. end of the

island, and that its ancient name was Maha-

grama. [V.]

MAARATH, a city of Jndah situated in the

mountains, mentioned only in the list in the book

of Joshua (xv. 59). Rcliind (PaheM. s. v. p. 879)

suggests that & lofty mountain, Mardes, near

the Dead Sea, may hare derived its name from this

city. [G. W.]

MAARSARES. [Babylonia, p. 362, a.]

MABOG. [Hierafoms.]

MACAE (MaVcu). a people of Arabia mentioned

by Ptolemy (vi. 7. § 14), immediately within the

Persian Gulf, as inhabiting the shores of the ex­

tensive bay of the Fish-eaters ClxBvoQdywv fcdAirot).

They occupied apparently the western shore of Cape

Miaseldom, as Pliny (vi. 26) states that the width

of the strait from the promontory of Carmania to

the opposite shore and the Macae, is 50 miles.

They were bounded on the east by the Naritae (Na-

pttTOi) [Epimakanitae]. Mr. Forster considers

the Macae of Ptolemy is a palpab'e contraction of

the Naumachaci of Pliny, and that this tribe is re-

ri'vered in the Jowaser Arabs, the most famous

pirates of the Persian Gulf. {Geoff, of Arabia,

voL ii. p. 225.) It is clear that the "Nanma-

chaeornm promontorium" of Pliny (vi. 32) is

identical with the modern Cape Musseldom, at

which he places the Macae. (Conip. Strabo, p.

765.) He mentions a remarkable story in con-

De-lKm with this place: that Numenius, who had

been appointed prefect of Mesenaby King Antiochus,

pained a naval victory over the Persians, and on

the same day, on the tide receding, conquered them

in a cavalry engagement, and erected on the same

•pot two trophies,—one to Neptune, the other to

Jupiter. [G. W.]

MACAE (Miitoi), one of the aboriginal tribes of

the KVgio Syrtica. on the N. Coast of Libya, on the

river Cinyps, according to Herodotus, who describes

their customs (iv. 175; comp. Scvl.p. 46; Diod. iii.

48:Plin. vi.23. s. 26; Sil.iii 275; Ptol. iv. 3. § 27,

calls them Mcuraibi or Maicai, 2upT?icat). Polybitu

mentions Maccaei in the Carthaginian army. (Pol.

in. 33.) [P. S.]

MACAI.LA (MairaAAa), an ancient city of

Bruttium, where, according to Lycophron, was the

sepulchre of Philoctetes, to whom the inhabitants

paid divine honours. (Lycophr. Alex. 927.) The

anth.r of the treatise De JMirabfflbta, ascribed to

Aristotle, mentions the same tradition, and adds that

the hero had deposited there in the temple of Apollo

BaHas the bow and arrows of Hercules, which had,

however, been removed by the Crotoniats to the

temple of Apollo in their own city. We learn from

tins auth r that Macalla was in the territory of

Cmtnoa, about 120 stadia from that city; but its

p^itiwi cannot be determined. It was doubtless an

'Vnotrian town: at a later period all trace of it

disappears. (I'send.-Arist. dr. Mirab. 107; Steph.

B. a r. ; Schol. ad Lycophr. I c.) [E. H. B.]

MACAMTAK. [Macrrtama.]

MACABAS. [Bkaoadas.]

MACATtKAE (Maicapeai; F.th. Moitapifi)!), a

t/miof Arcadia, in the district Parrhasia. 22 stadia

f"*n M^alopolia. on the road to Phigaleia, and 2

•tajia truui the Alpheius. It was in ruins in the

time of Pansanias, as its inhabitants had been re­

moved to Megalopolis upon the foundation of the

latter. (Paus. viii. 3. § 3, viii. 27. § 4, viii. 36,

§ 9; Steph. B. s. r.)

MACA'KIA (MaKapta, Ptol. v. 14. § 4), a town

on the N. coast of Cyprus, E. of Ceryneia. (Engel,

Kypros, vol. i. p. 83.) [E. B. J.]

MACA'RIA (Moiton(a), that is, "the blessed

(island),'* a name given by the poets to several

islands, such as Cyprus, Lesbos, and Rhodes;

but also occurs as a proper name of an island in tlie

south of the Arabian gulf, a little to the nortli of

the gulf of Adule. [L. S.]

MACATUTAE (MoKOToi>To»), a people in the

extreme W. of Cyrenaica, on the border of the pro­

vince of Africa, above the Velpi Montes. (Ptol. iv.

4. § 10.) [P. S.]

MACCHURE'BI. [Maiirktaj-ia.]

MACCOCALINGAE. [Caungae.]

MACCU'RAE. [Maoretania.]

MACEDO'NIA (jj McuttSuWa), the name applied

to the country occupied by the tribes dwelling north­

ward of Thcssaly, and Mt. Olympus, eastward of llio

chain by which Pindus is continued, and westward

of the river Axius. The extent of country, indeed,

to which the name is generally given, embraces later

enlargements, but, in its narrowest sense, it was a

very small country, with a peculiar population.

I. Name, race, and original seats.

The Macedonians (MaxeooVej or WlaicnMvts),

as they are called by all the ancient poets, and in the

fragments of epic poetry, owed their name, as it

was said, to an eponymous ancestor; according to

some, this was Macednus, son of Lycaon, from

whom the Arcadians were descended (Apollod. iii.

8. § 1), or Macedon, the brother of Magnet), or a sou

of Aeolus, according to He-iod and Hellanicus (ap.

Const. Porph. de Them, ii. 2; comp. Aelian. //. A.

x. 48; Eustath. ad IHon. P. 247; Steph. B).

These, as well as the otherwise unsupported state­

ment of Herodotus (i. 56), of the original identity of

the Doric and Maceduiau (Macedonian) peoples, are

merely various attempts to form a genealogical con­

nection between this semi-barbarous people and the

rest of the Hellenic race. In the later poets, they

appear, sometimes, under the name of Macetae

(Sil. Ital. xiii. 878, xiv. 5, xvii, 414, G32; Stut,

Sil. iv. 6. 106; Auson. de Clar. Urb.ii.O; Cell, x.

3). And their country is called Macetia (MaK€Tia,

Hesych. s. v.; Eustath. ad Dion. P. I. c).

In the fashion of wearing the mantle and ar­

ranging their hair, the Macedonians bore a great

resemblance to the Illyrians (Strnb. vii. p. 327), but

the fact that their language was different (Polyb.

xxviii. 8) contradicts the supposition of their Illv-

rian descent. It was also different from Greek, but

in the Macedonian dialect there occur many gram­

matical forms which are commonly called Aeolio,

together with many Arcadian and Thcssalian words;

and what perhaps is still more decisive, several

words which, though not found in the Greek, have

been preserved in the Latin language. (Comp.

Miiller, Dorians, vol. i. p. 3, trans.) The ancients

were unanimous in rejecting them from the true

Hellenic family, but they must not be confounded

with the armed plunderers—Illyrians, Thracians,

and Epirots, by whom they were surrounded, as they

resemble more nearly the Thcssalians, and other

ruder members of the Grecian name.

These tribes, which differed as much in ancient

