ROUATItiUS. 85! BOXOLANI.

hUiiM Desffodets, sent to Rome by Colbert, pub-

at Paris in 1682 his work in folio, entitled Lts

^'dijku antiques de Rum* mesurcs et destines. The

: -a.-L.rro.enU> are very correct, and the work indis-

*£.!*ble to those who would thruroughly study  
:aan architecture, Nulli's great plun ot' Koine,

m fint that can be called an accurate one, appeared

t 1745. In 1784 Piranesi published his splendid

mk tin Aniichita Roman* (Home, 4 vols.fol.), con-

ttxjjf the principal ruins. It was continued by

3 ho, Kranceaco I'irancsi. The work of Mich.

'«>erteke, Les restes de rancienne Rome (it la Have,

173. 9 rok. Urge fol.), is also of prcat value. In

*J appeared the A ntichita Rmnane of Luuji  
tdsvU (Rome, 1822, large fol.). To the plans and

■lorafiaCM of Caruaa in his Edijizi we have already

uird. Ha large map of Hume represents of

mrm baa peculiar views, but will be found useful

- iJ iai-ir. Further information on the literature  
tofo^raphy will be found in an excellent

by the Chevalier Hun-

[T. H. D.]

com or rome.

EuMATI'NTS. [Coscordia.]

brtlEVHll/M, ■ place on llic E. coast of the

peninsula, mentioned only by OviJ, in his

>—ptwn of the voyage of the Epidaurian serpent

(Orid. Utt xt. 705). The geography of the

■a,"* is by no means very precise; but according

kcal topographers tlie name of Romechi is still

Bard by a place on the sea-coast near Roceella,

ml IS miles X. of the ruins of I.ocri (Komanelli,

.up. 156. IJualtronuni, A'of. ad Barrii Cnlabr.

13.) [E. H. B.]

kl'MVLA. a place in Upper Pannonia, on the

A trading from Aemona along the river Savtts to

Bbsm. {It. Ant. p. 274; Tab. real.) It is

it ft the modern Carlttadt, the capital of Cro-

[L. SL]

tfFntxA. rn^ciA, r. 744. i.]

IfMlTLEA ('PvpvAfa, Steph. B.: Buarcia), a

'. { Suuiium, mentioned by I.ivy (x. 17), as

K taken bj tb« Roman consul P. Dea'us, or ac­

inar to others by Fabius, in the Third Sanmite

w, a c 297. It is described as being a large

I -fxleot place; but seems to have afterwards

■a into decay, as the name is not noticed by

I s'Jbrr writer, except Stephanus of Byzantium,

f *i aat fooxsd in any of the geographers. But

luirraries mention a station Sub Romuln, which

• ram on the Appian Way, 21 miles beyond

feasant, and 22 miles from the Pons Aufidi

is. J at p. ]20). Both these stations being

urs, we may fix Bomulea, which evidently occupied

iL afeure the road, on the site of the modem town

lit* ii'ii^ where various ancient remains have been

nnal (Romanelli, voL ii. p. 348; Cluver. Ital.

Pratilli, Fa» Appia, IT. 5). [E. H. B]

bJSCIATfl'M (Awarni), a town of Bruttium,

»»1 en a lull about 2 miles from the sea-coast,

tl» fail of Tarvntmn, and 12 miles from the

I'-'i of the C rath is. The name is not found in

the geographers, or mentioned by any earlier writer;

but it is found in the Itinerary of Antoninus, which

places it 12 miles from Thurii, and is noticed by

Procopius during the Gothic wars as a strong fortress,

anil one of the most important strongholds in this

part of Italy, (/fin. Ant. p. 114; Procop. B. 0.

iii. 30.) It was taken by Totila in a. d. 548, but

continued throughout the middle ages to be a place

of importance, and is still one of the most consider­

able towns in this part of Calabria. [E.U.B.]

ROSTRUM XE.MAVIAE, a place in the central

part of Vindelicia, on the river Virdo. {It. Ant.

pp. 237. 258.) [L. S.]

ROTOMAGUS ('Paro><ryoi), in Gallia Lugdu-

nensis, is mentioned by Ptolemy (ii. 8. § 8) as the

capital of the Veneliocasi, as the name is written

in some editions. [Yfxloca.hses.] In the Table

the name is written Rattomagus, with the mark

which indicates a capital town; and in the Anto-

nine Itin. it occurs in the corrupted form I.atomagus

on the road w-hich runs from a place called Caroco-

tinuin. Ammianus (xt. 11) sjvaks of it in the

plural number Rotomagi. There are said to be

coins with the legend Ratumacos.

Rotomagws is Rouen on the north side of the

Seine, and the capital of the department of Seine

Inferieure. The old Gallic name was shortened to

Rotoinum or Rodomum, and then to Rouen, as Ko-

dumna has been shortened to Roanne. The situa­

tion of Rouen probably made it a town of some im­

portance under the Itoman Empire, but very few

Roman remains have been found in Rotten. Some

Roman tombs havo been mentioned. [G. I..]

ROXOLA'XI ('Po^oAovof), a people belonging to

the Sannatian stock, who first appear in history

about a century before Christ, when they were found

occupying the steppes between the I-hiieper and the

Don.' (Strab. ii. p.214, vii. pp.294,306, 307,309;

Plin. iv. 12; Ptol. iii. 5. §§ 19,24,25.) After­

wards some of them made their footing in Dacia and

behind the Carpathians. Strabo (vii. p. 30C) has

told the story of the defeat of the Roxolani nnd their

leader Tasius by Diophantus, the general of Mithri-

dates, and takes the opportunity of describing some

of their manners which resembled those of the Sar-

matian stock to which they belonged. Tacitus

{Hist. i. 79) mentions another defeat of this people,

when making an inroad into Moesia during Olho's

short lease of power. From the inscription (Orelli,

Inter. 750) which records the honours paid to

Plantins Silvanus, it appears that they were also

defeated by him. Hadrian, who kept his frontier

I quiet by subsidising the needy tribes, when they

complained about the payment came to terms with

their king (Spartian, lladr. 6) — probably the Ras-

[tarasanus of the inscription (Orelli, Inter. 833).

When the general rising broko out among the Sar-

matian, German and Scythian tribes from the Rhine

to the Tanais in the reign of M. Aurelius, the

Roxolani were included in the number. (Jul. Capit.

.'/. Anton. 22.) With the inroads of the Gotbs

the name of the Roxolani almost disappears. They

probably were partly exterminated, and partly united

with the kindred tribes of the Alani, and shared

the general fate when the Huns poured down from

the interior of Asia, crossed the lAm, and oppressed

the Alani, and, later, with the help of these, the

Ostro-Goths.

It has been assumed that the name of the Riia-

t'ALANi ( PokoAoi'oi, Ptol. iii. 5. § 24) is not dif­

ferent from that of the Roxolani, who, according to

3 I 4

