994 SIC YON. SI

X

pTiliT 'io 9%

eiea of Se! "io eaiomii

t'tij Titane wxw sfialiT bn>

followed by the existing foundations of the houses:

they nm with mathematical precision from ME. to

SW., ami from NW. to SE., thus following tlie rule

of Vitruv'ms. Kew of the ruins rise above the

ground; hut there is a Roman building better pre-

herved, in id containing several chambers, which lies

near the ridge separating the two levels of the hill.

Leake supposes that this building was probably the

praetorium of the Roman governor during the period

between the destruction of Corinth by Mummius

and its restoration by Julius Caesar, when Sicyoii

was the capital of the surrounding country; but

more recent observers are inclined to think that the

ruins are those of baths. West of this building are

the theatre and the stadium; and the modern road

which leads from Vaiilibd to Stymphalus runs be­

tween this Roman building and the theatre, and then

through a portion of the stadium. The theatre was

cut out of the rock, separating the two levels of tlie

hill, as already described; its total diameter was

about 400 feet, and that of the orchestra 100. Each

wing was supported by a mass of masonry, pene­

trated by an arched passage. To the NW. of the.

theatre arc the remains of the stadium, of which the

total length, including the seats at the circular end,

is about 680 feet. Col. Leake remarks that " the

stadium resembles that of Messene, in having had

seats which were not continued through the whole

length of the sides. About 80 feet of the recti­

linear extremity had no seats; and this part, instead

of being excavated out of the hill like the rest, is

formed of factitious ground, supported at the end by

a wall of polygonal masonry, which still exists."

There are also, in various parts of the hill, remains

of several subterraneous aqueducts, which supplied

the town with water. The opening of one of them

is seen on the SE. side of the theatre; and there is

another opening now walled up W. of the modern

village. The tyrant Nicocles escaped through these

subterraneous passages when Sicyon was taken by

A rat us. (I'lut. Arat. 9.)

V. Topography of the Sicyonia.— The territory

of Sicyon was very small, and, in fact, was little

more than the valley of the Asopus. In the upper

part of its course the valley of the Asopus is con-

lined between mountains, but near the sea it opens

out into a wide plain, which was called AsoriA.

("Aewrfaj Sirab. viii. p. 382, ix. p. 408; Pans. ii.

1. § 1.) This plain was celebrated for its fertility

(ji^ya typnvt'tv cjrl tw rb Hikvu/viov irt&tov ytwpyui',

Lucian, /carom, c. 18), and was especially adapted

for the cultivation of the olive. ("Sicyoma Dacca,"

Virg. Georg. ii. 519; Or. Kp. ex Punt. iv. 15. 10;

Stat Tktb. iv. 50.) The neighbouring sea supplied

an abundance of excellent fish. (Athen. i. p. 27.)

Ii was separated from the Corinthia on the E. by

the river Nemea, and from the territory of PelletM

i»n the W. by the Sythas; and on the S. it was

liounded by the territories of PhHus and Cleonat.

At one time the territory of Sicyon must have ex­

tended even beyond the Sythas, since Goncssa or

I)onlssa, which lay W. of this river, is described

by Pausanuu as belonging to the Sicyonians, [I'kl-

lkne, p. 571, a.] Between the Helisaon and the

Sythas w'as probably the river Selleeis, with the

neighbouring village of Ephyra, mentioned by

Sirabo (viii p. 338). [EpHTRA, No. 3.] Sixty-

stadia S. of Sicyon, and near the frontiers of Phltasia,

was Titans or Titana, the most important of the

dependencies of Sicyon. [Titane.] Forty stadia

Dryond Titane was 1'hlius; but this road, which

was too narrow for car

road from Sicyon to Phi

to the right of the A-opi

through Titane to the le

these (wo roads, at the i

Sicyon, was a sacred grovi

Eumenides. { I'a - ii. 11

was Epieieia, on the rive

the same direction was i

Xeo. //<//. vii. l. § 22.)

rhoebia, taken by Epi

through the valley of tht

same place as Buphia.

412) mentions a deinu*

(Hagen, Sicyonia, Keg

cyoniacorum Sf#c, Bern

brik, Lh Sicytmuxt Topi

Leake, Aforta, vol. iii

fccherches, 4c. p. 30. &i

ponnes, p. 39, seq.; Cu

p. 482, seq.; Beule", .

p. 343, seq.)

SIDAE (5/5a«), a f

for its pomegranates. ]

this fruit ffi'Sn. though

f>otd. As the A1 •

with the Uoeotians for tl

must have been upon I

its exact site is unkno

651.)

SIDE (2i'5tj: Eth. X

harbour on the coast of I

west of the river Melas,

(Stool Mar. Mag. §!

founded by Cumae in

p. 40; Strab. xiv. p. 66

s. v.; Pomp. Mela, i. 11

who admits the Cumaeai

a tradition current at Sii

the Sidetae were the ma

from Cumae, but soon i

their new home forgot

formed a peculiar idiom

not understood even by!

When Alexander appear

and received a Macedoni

Atitiochus the Great, a l

off Side between the flee

by Hannibal, and that

the former was defeated,

23, 24.) IVlybius (v.

great enmity between t

peudus. At the time w

their highest power in l

Side their principal port

dispose of their prison

(Strab. xiv. p. 664.) 9

considerable importance

and in the ultimate c

became the metropolis ol

tWfaiicraa o^ jo BapiidpirarfciiqGiiqGft o^ jo s;»nu.»pu*f*iiq£n.

