84 ITALIA. ITALIA.

which formed the original population of Greece, as

veil as that of Epiros and Macedonia, and of a part

at least of Thrace and Asia Minor. The statements

and arguments upon which this inference is based

am more fullj discussed under the article Pr-

lasci. It maj here suffice to say that the general

fact is put forward prominently by Dionysius and

Strain, and has been generally adopted by modem

writers from Niebuhr downwards. The Pelasgian

population of Italy appears in historical times prin­

cipally, and in its unmixed form solely, in the

southern part of the peninsula. Bat it is not im­

probable that it had, as was reported by traditions

still current in the days of the earliest historians,

at one timo extended much more widely, and that

the rclasgian tribes had been gradually pressed

towards the south by the successively advancing

waves if population, which appear under the name of

the Oscans or Ausonians, and the Sabellians. At

the time when the first Greek colonies were esta­

blishes! in Southern Italy, the whole of the country

subsequently known as Lucania and Bruttium was

occupied by a people whom the Greeks called Oeko-

tiuans (OlWrpoi), and who are generally repre-

senttsl as a Pelasgic race. Indeed we learn that the

colonists themselves continued to call this people,

whom thpy had reduced to a state of serfdom, Pe-

lasgi. (Steph. B. ». v. Xiot.) We find, however,

traces of the tradition that this part of Italy was at

one time peopled by a tribe called Siculi, who are

represented as passing over from thence into the

island to which they gave the name of Sicily, and

where alone they are found in historical times.

[Siciua.] The name of these Siculi is found also

in connection with the earliest population of Latium

[Latum]: both there and in Oenotria they are

represented by some authorities as a branch of the

Pelasgic race, while others regard them as a distinct

people. In the latter case wc have no clue whatever

to their origin or national affinities.

Next to the Oenotrians come the Messapians or

lapv^Uns, who are represented by the Greek legends

and traditions as of Pelasgic or Greek descent: and

there seem reasonable grounds for assuming that the

conclu ion was correct, though no value can be at­

tached to the mythical legends connected with it by

the logographcra and early Greek historians. The

tribes to whom a Pelasgic origin is thus assigned

are, the Messapians and Salentines, in the Iapygian

peninsnla; and the Peucetians and Daunians, in the

country called by the Romans Apulia. A strong

confirmation of the inference derived in this case from

other authorities is found in the traces still re­

maining of the Mcssapian dialect, which appears to

have borne a close affinity to Greek, and to have

differed from it only in much the same degree as the

Macedonian and other connate dialects. (Moranuen,

lutrr lluluchc Oialekten, pp. 41—98.)

It is Car more difficult to trace with any security

the Pelasgic population of Central Italy, where it

apjiears to have been very early blended with other

national elements, and did not anywhere subsist in

an unmingled form within the period of historical

record. But various as have teen the theories and

sugirestions with regard to the population of Etruria,

there teems to be good ground for assuming that

on" important element, both of the people and lan­

guage, was I'elasgic, and that this element was pre­

dominant in the southern part of Etruria, while it

was more feeble, and had be^n comparatively effac.-d

in the more northern districts. [Etui'kia.] The

very name of Tyrrhenians, universally given by the

Greeks to the inhabitants of Etruria, appears indis-

solubly connected with that of Pelasgians ; and the

evidence of language affords some curious and in­

teresting facts in corroboration of the tame view.

(Donaldson, VarronioHut, 3d edit. pp. 166—170;

Lepsius, Tyrrhm. J'tlasger, pp. 40—43.)

If the Pelasgic element was thus prevalent in

Southern Etruria, it might naturally be expected

that its existence would be traceable in Latium also;

and accordingly we find abundant evidence that oca

of the component ingredients in the population of

Latium was of Pelasgic extraction, though this did

not subsist within the historical period in a separate

form, but was already indissolubly blended with tiia

other elements of the Latin nationality. [Latum]

The evidence of the Latin langnage, as pointed oat

by Niebuhr, in itself indicates the combination of

a Greek or Pelasgic race with one of a different

origin, and closely akin to the other nations which

we find predominant in Central Italy, the Umbriana,

Oscans, and Sabines.

There seems to be also sufficient proof that a Pe­

lasgic or Tyrrhenian population was at an early period

settled along the coasts of Campania, and was pro­

bably at one time conterminous and connected with

that of Lucania. or Oenotria; but the notices of thes*

Tyrrhenian settlements are rendered obscure and

confused by the circumstance that the Greeks ap­

plied the same name of Tyrrhenians to the Eirur—

cans, who subsequently made themselves masters

for some time of the whole of this country. [Cam-

FAIflA.]

The notices of any Pelasgic population in the in­

terior of Central Italy are so few and vague as to ba

scarcely worthy of investigation; but the traditions

collected by Dionysius from the early Greek his­

torians distinctly represent them as having been at

one time settled in Northern Italy, and (specially

point to Spina on the Adriatic as a Pelasgic city.

(Dionys. i. 17—21; Strab. v. p. 214.) Nevertheless

it hardly appears probable that this l'etucic ran

formed a permanent part of the population of thaw

regions. The traditions in question are more fully

investigated under the article Pblasoi. Then ia

some evidence also, though very vague and in­

definite, of the existence of a Pelasgic population mi

the coast of the Adriatic, especially on toe shore* of

Picenum. (These notices are collected by Niebuhr,

vol. L pp. 49, 50, and are discussed under Pics-

MM.)

2. Okca.is. — At a very early period, and cer­

tainly before the commencement of historical record,

a considerable portion of Central Italy appears i<»

have been in the possession of a people who were

called by the Greeks Opicans, and by. the Latin*

Oscans, and whom we are led to identify also with

the Ausonians [Al'aoxm] of the (jreeks, and lbs

Auruncans of Koman writers. From Uieni ns

derived the name of Opkia or Opica, which ap)«ar>

to have been the usual appellation, in the days bKh

of Thucydides and Aristotle, for tlie eenlral purtoci

of the peninsula, or the country north of what was

then called Italy. (Thuc.vi.4) Arist. PoL viL 10.)

All the earliest authorities concur in repres*siUii£

the Opicans as the earliest inhabitants of Campania,

and they were still in possession of that fertile dis­

trict when the Greek colonies were planted there.

(Strab. v. p. 242.) We find also statements, which

linve every character of authenticity, that this i

people then occupied the mountainous region aft*

