SAMOTMRACE. 901 SAMOTHRACE.

/tM river and a safe asylum on the western side."

i v lente ww therefore instructed to seize and bold

»-**ion of Samoiata. (£. J. Tii. 7. § 1.) This

m gave birth to Lucian, and became infamous in

third century in connection with the heretical

•top * Paul of Samosata," who first broached the

m%f of the simple humanity of our Lord; and was

tlmmed in a council assembled at Antioch (a. d.

"J. Eweb. U. E. vii. 27, 28). The modern name

f the town is Semptai or Samitat, about 40 miles

. «f the cataracts of the Euphrates, where it passes

Enat Taurus, but Pococke could hear of no ruins

xre. (Utterraliont on Syria, vol. ii. pt 1, p.

Si) [G.W.]

CODI or SAMOSATA.

SAMOTHRACE, SAMOTHRA'CA, or SAMO-

IEAC1A (20*00(4x71: Elk. 2an66pa(; 2ouo-

fc» in Herodotus, who uses the adjective Sa/xo-

hnwt, mad calls the inhabitants 2a)io9pi)iK's. In

■7 (iv. 23) we find the form Samothrace; in the

k Aut (p. 522, Wess.), Samothraca; in Livy

a IS, SO, xlir. 45, 46), both Samotbraca and

i«aracia. Properly it is "the Thracian Samoa."

f Uomer calls it sometimes 2d/ior QfniiKirj,

minaa simply Zomos. Hence the line in Virgil

a. vii. SOU):

Pirnriamqae Samum quae nunc Samothracia

iertnr-

tte modern Greeks it is called Samothraki, and

2 alao Samandraki (is to /xavopaxi), which is

l? a oocmption of the other, formed in ignorance,

• :be analii^j of Stamboul and Stalimni,—|iav-

t dnsoting "a aheepfold"). An island in the

i c? the Aegaean, opposite the mouth of the He-

,tai lying N. of Imbrus, and NE. of Lemnos.

bstaace from the coast of Thrace is estimated at

ri.es by Pliny (L c). who says its circuit is 32

i. It is of an oval shape, and, according to the

Mh aorrrr, 8 miles in length and 6 in breadth,

■s traditionally said to hare been diminished in

o consequence) of an outburst of waters from

Bc^eapatit; and perhaps some great physical

fm took place in this part of the Aegaean at no

mnoce period. (See Admiral Smyth's Medi-

■vm, pp. 74, 119.) However this may be, Sa-

taci ia remarkable for its extreme elevation. No

x the north of the Archipelago is so conspicu-

unpt 1ft. At ho*; and no island in the whole

j$*Ia£o ia so high, except Candia. The eleva­

te the highest point, called Saoce by Pliny (I.e.),

rked 5240 fact in the Admiralty Chart (No.

) The geographical position of this point (the

r> name of which is ML Fagarte) is 40° 26'

L JaL, and 25° 36' 23" E. long. Though there

nrrxl enchorajres on the coast of Samothrace,

m an entire absence of good harbours, a circum-

r a harmony with the expression of Pliny, who

'L-ipiTtTtrinif im» omnium.'' Scylax, however

(p. 280, ed. Gail), mentions a port, which possihly

was identical with the harbour Demetrium spoken of

by Livy. The ancient city (of the same name as

the island) was on the north, in the place marked

Pataepolit on the chart.

The common name of the Thracian and the Ionian

Samos was the occasion of speculation to Strabo and

Pausanias. The latter (vii. 4. § 3) says that the

Thracian island was colonised by emigrants from

the other. The former (x. pp. 457, 472) mentions

a theory that it might be named from the Saii, a

people of Thrace. Scymnns Chius (692) says, that

aid came from Samos to Samothrace in a time

of famine, and that this brought settlers from

the Ionian to the Thracian Island. The truth

seems to be, that a duos denotes any elevated land

near the sea, and that the name was therefore

given to the island before us, as well as to others.

[CBrHALLE.HA; Samos.] The earlier names of Sa­

mothrace were Dardania, Electris, Melite, and Leu­

cosis. Diodorns Siculus (v. 47) speaks of its in­

habitants as Autochthons,and dwells on peculiarities

of their language as connected with their religious

worship. The chief interest of this island is con­

nected with the Cabeiiu. For these mysterious

divinities we must refer to the Diet, of Biography

and Mythology. Pelasgians are said by Herodotus

(ii. 51) to have first inhabited the island, and to

have introduced the mysteries.

The lofty height of Samothrace appears in Homer

in a very picturesque connection with the scenery of

Troy. He describes Poseidon as gazing from this

throne on the incidents of the war: and travellers

in the Troad have noticed the view of Samothrace

towering over Imbros as a proof of the truthfulness

of the Iliad. Bearing in mind this geographical

affinity (if we may so call it) of the mountain-tops

of Saoce and Ida, we shall hardly be surprised to find

Scymnus Chins (678) calling Samothrace a Trojan

island (rijffM Tovurq). The tradition was that

Dardanus dwelt there before he went to Troy, and

that he introduced the Cabeiric mysteries from

thence into Asia.

A few detached points may be mentioned which

connect this island with Greek and Roman history.

Its inhabitants joined Xerxes in his expedition against

Greece; they are spoken of as skilful in the use of

the javelin; and a Samothracian ship is said to have

sunk an Athenian ship, and to have been sunk in

turn by an Aeginetan one, at the battle of Salami*.

(Herod, viii. 90.) At that time the Samothracians

possessed forts erected on the mainland. (Ib. vii.

108.) Philip of Macedon and his wife Olympias

were both initiated in the mysteries. It would seem

that such initiation was regarded as a preservation

from danger. (Aristoph. Pax, 277, and SrhoL)

Samothrace appears also to have had the rights of

asylum; for Perseus took refuge there, after he was

defeated by the Remans in the battle of Pydna.

(Liv. xlv. 6.) Germanicus sailed to the island with

the view of being initiated: bat he was prevented

by an omen (Tac Ann. ii. 54.) St. Paul passed

the night at anchor here on bis first voyage from

Asia to Europe. (Acl>, xvi. 11.) In Pliny's time

Samothrace was a free state ((. c). In the Synecdemus

we find it, with Thasos, in the province of Illyricum.

(Wess. p. 640.) In the later division described by

Constant. Porphyrog. (De Them. p. 47, ed. Bonn)

it is in the Thracian subdivision of the First Eu­

ropean or Thracian Theme.

Samothrace appears to have no modern history

3m 3

