POMPEII. POMPEII,

653

■rj i inferior rooms, a kind of garrets, probably

amor, foe the sleepiug-rooius of slaves, anil in some

Mi of the females of the family. From the

Stir of detraction of the city the upper stories

Mindeed been slm<st uniformly totally destroyed;

H this circumstance itself, as well as the few

■ta which occasionally remain, seems to prove

ft they sere built wholly of wood, and conld never

M formed an important part of the houses.

Ik oalv oo the W. side of the city, where the

slopes steeply towards the sea, that houses

hich consisted of three stories or more,

the houses had little or nothing of an

character; not a single instance has

of a portico before a private house; and

the street they presented either dead walls,

kerr and there a few small and scanty openings

or ranges of shops, for the most part

mean in character, even when they occupied

oftca the case) the front of dwellings of a

description. The interior of the houses of

kaarr wealthy class was arranged apparently on

NBI model as those at Rome; its disposition is

■ is detail in the Dictionary of Antiquities

m the article DoMt s where a plan is given

jbj Home of Panaa, one of the most exten-

esnptets of those found at Pompeii. In

the single house with its garden and

including as usual several shops,

whole of an insula or the sjiare bounded

t> or alleys; but this was unusual; in

x b insula comprised several houses even

f were of a better description, and must

the residence of persons of some wealth.

■ want remarkable of these may be men-

dwellings known as the House of Sallust,

e Tragic Poet, of Castor and Pollux, of

Ac. The work of Dr. Overbeck

(rives a very interesting series of

selected so ss to afford examples of

of house, from the humblest dwell-

of only two rooms, to the richly de-

spacious mansions of Sallust and Pansa.

of decoration of these houses presents a

uniformity of character. The walls

invariably ornamented with painting, the

atrium and peristyle being decorated with

but these are composed only of a soft and coarse

stone (volcanic tufo) covered with stucco. The

prodigal use of marble, both for columns and slabs

to encrust the walls, which had become so general

at Rome under tho first emperors, apparently not

having yet found its way to Pompeii. The floors

are generally enriched with mosaics, some of which

possess a very high degree of merit as works of art.

The most beautiful yet discovered adorned the house

known as the House of the Faun, from a bronze

statue of a dancing Faun which was also found in

it The illustrations to Gell's Pompeiana (2nd

series, Lond. 1835) will convey to the reader a suf­

ficient idea of the number and variety of the artistic

decorations of the private houses at Pompeii; though

several of the most richly ornamented have been

discovered since the date of its publication.

Outside the gate leading to Herculaneum, in a

kind of suburb, stands a house of a different de­

scription, being a suburban villa of considerable

extent, and adapted to have been the abode of a

person of considerable wealth. From the greater

space at command this villa comprises much that is

not found in the houses within the town; among

others a large court or garden (Xystus), a complete

suite of private baths, &c. The remains of this

villa are of mnch value and interest for comparison

with the numerous ruins which occur elsewhere of

similar buildings, often on a much more extensive

scale, but in a far less perfect state of preservation;

as well as for assisting us to understand the de­

scriptions given by Pliny and Vitruvius of similar

structures, with their numerous appurtenances. (For

the details of their arrangements the reader is re-

ferred to the article Villa, in the Dictionary of

Antiquities, and to the work on Pompeii, Lond. 1832,

vol. ii. ch. 11.) Between this villa and the gate of

the city are the remains of another villa, said to bo

on a larger scale and more richly decorated than

the one just described; but its ruins, which were

excavated in 1764, were rilled up again, and are

not now visible. It has been called, though without

the slightest authority, the Villa of Cicero. The

one still extant is commonly known as the Villa of

Arrius Dioinedes, but for no other reason than that

""I

STREET OK TIIK TUMUs.

