268 MARATHON. MARATHON.

transferred to another site; and it was natural thnt

the celebrated name should be given to tho prin-

cijul place in the district. Three-quarters of a

mile to the south-east of the tumuli of Yrana

there is a risiug ground, upon which are the traces

of a Hellenic wall, apparently the peri bolus of a

temple. This was probably the temple of Her­

cules (Plan, 10), in whose sacred enclosure the

Athenians were encamped before the battle of Ma­

rathon. (Herod, vi. 1U8.)

2. There are several fragments of antiquity

situated at the head of the valley of Marathoaa at

a spot called fnoi> which is no doubt the site of

the ancient Oexok, one of the four deini of the

district. The retired situation of Onoe accounts

for its omission »y Strabo in his enumeration of the

deini situated near the coast (ix. p. 399).

3. There are also evident remains of an ancient

drums situated upon an insulated height in the

plain of Siili, near the entrance of the pass leading

out of the Marathonian plain to Suit. These ruins

are pmbahly those of Tricokythus, the situation

of which agrees with the order of the maritime

deini in Strubo, where Tricorythus immediately

precedes It ham n us. We learn from Aristophanes

and Suidas that Tricorythus was tormented by

gnats from a neighbouring marsh (fawls forty <J5tj

Tptttoputria, Aristoph. I.t/sutr. 1032; Suidas, s. v.

JfiwLs); and at the present day the inhabitants of

JvOtcer StiU in the summer arc driven by this plague

and the bad air into the upjter village of the same

name. The town was probably called Tricorythus

from the triple peak on which its citadel was

built.

The site of pRonALijmirs is uncertain, but it

should probably be placed at the south-west ex­

tremity of the Marathonian plain. This might bo

inferred from Strabo's enumeration, who mentions

first Probalinthus, then Marathon, and lastly Tri-

corythns. Between the southern marsh and Mi.

Argnliki there are foundations of buildings at a

place called I"nfori, which is, perhaps, a corruption

of Probalinthus. Close to the sea, upon a rising

ground in the marsh, there are some ancient re­

mains, which may. perhaps, be those of the temple

of Athena Hellotia (Plan, 11), which epithet the

ptddess is said to have derived from the marsh of

Marathon, where the temple was built, (SchoL ad

Pind. 01 xiii. 56 ; Ktym. M. *. r. 'EAAorris.)

The principal monument in the Marathonian plain

was the tumulus erected to the 192 Athenians who

were slain in the battle, and whose names were

inscribed upon ten pillars, one for each tribe, placed

upon the tomb. There was also a second tumulus

for the Plataeans and slaves, and a separate monu­

ment to Miltiadea. All these monuments were seen

by Pausanias 600 years after the battle (i. 32. § 3).

The tumulus of the Athenians still exists. It stands

in the centre of the plain, about half a mile from

the sea-shore, and is known by the name of Surd (o

2op4i)f the tomb. (Plan, 13.) It is about 30 feet

high, and 200 yards in circumference, composed of

a light mould mixed with sand, amidst which have

been found many brazen heads of arrows, about an

Inch in length, of a trilateral form, and pierced at

the top with a routid hole for the reception of the

abaft. There are also found, in still greater num­

bers, fragments of black flint, rudely nhuped by art.

which have been usually considered fragments of

the arrow-heals used by the Persian archers; but

this opinion cannot be received, as units of Lhe same

kind abound in other parts of Greece, where i»

Persian is reputed to have set his foot; and. on tha

other hand, none have been found either at Thermo­

pylae or Plataea. At a very small distance frwn

this tumulus Leake noticed a small heap of carta

and stones, which is, perhaps, the tomb of Platseam

and Athenian slaves. At 500 yards north of the

great tumulus is a ruin called Pyryo (fliVyot),

consisting of the foundation of a square monumtst,

constructed of large blocks of white marble; it is

apparently the monument erected in honour of 3fil-

tiades. (Plan, 14.)

We learn from Philochorus that there was a tempi*

of the Pythian Apollo at Marathon (np. ixhol. ad

Soph. (ted. Col. 1047); and Demosthenes relates

that the sacred vessel was kept on this coast, and

that once it was carried off by Philip. (/***£ i.

p. 49.)

Pausanias (i. 32. § 3, seq.) mentions in the

plain several natural objects, some of which bare

been noticed already. The lake at the northern

extremity of the plain he describes *• as for the mvi

part marshy, into which the flying barbarians tell

through their ignorance of the ways; and hers it is

said that the principal slaughter of them occurred.

Beyond the lake (uir«p tV \ipjnjv') are seen the

stables of stone for the horses of Artapbernes, to­

gether with vestiges of a tent upon the rock. A

river flows out of the lake which, within the lake,

affords water fit for cattle to drink; but, toward*

the place where it enters the sea, becomes salt and

full of sea-fishes. At a little distance fnsn its

plain is a mountain of Pan, and a cavern worthy U

inspection: the entrance is narrow; but within are

apartments and baths, and that which is called the

goat-stand (oito'A.ioi') of Pan, together with rocks

very much resembling goats." Leake observes that

the marshy lake, and the river, which, becjeuug

salt towards the mouth, produces sea-hMir*, are

precisely as Pau>anias describes them. The marsh

is deepest towards the foot of J//. Ktmiti, wbrr*

several springs issue from the foot of the rocks on

the right side of the road leading from the gnat

plain to Lower StilL These springs are ap[iarvntir

the fountain M.u akia (Plan, 8), which Pausaiiias

mentions ju.it before his description of the mart fr­

it derived its name from Macaria, a dang liter <s"

Hercules, who devoted herself to death in behalf of

4the Hcraclidae before the victory which they gained

over »he Argivea in the plain. (Conip. Strafe, eii.

p. 377.) A small stream, which lias its orijria

in these springs, is traced through the marsh into a

small salt lake (Plan, 9), supplied by subterraneous

sources, and situated on the south-eastern extremity

of the marsh, under a rocky ridge, the continuatiun

of C. Stdmi. Both the ridge and salt laks am

known by the name of Dhmlnmiria (t« A(mrm

rwtn, i. e. the monster-waters, so called from its

size, since 3pcUo is a common expression amour tha

modern Greeks for any marvellous object). On the

eastern side of tho great marsh Leake nntiorO a

small cavern in the side of Mi. DhruhmtTia, which

is perhaps the place called by Pau&axuae "Um

stables of Artaphcrnes." Leake supposes that lbs-

Persian commanders were encamped in the ad/j»n-

ing plain of Tricorythus. lhe mountain and cavern

of Pan have not yet been discovered. They acmld

appear, from the description of Pausanias to hav*

been a little further removed from the plmn than tho

marsh and suit lake. Hence tbsy may be placed ia

ML KvrakL

