404 ODRYSAE. ODIIYSAE

cannot he expected to have had many towns; and

in fact we find none mentioned either by Thucydides

or Xenophon. The first of their towns recorded

is Philippopolis, founded by Philip II. of Mace­

donia, as there will be occasion to relate in the se­

quel; and it may be presumed that all their towns

of any importance were built after they had lost

their independence.

The name of the Odrysac first occurs in history

in connection with the expedition of Dareius Hy-

MastJis a-*ain.st the .Scythians. (Herod. I. c.)

Whilst the Persians oppressed the southern {arts

of Thrace, the Odrysians, protected by their moun­

tain^, retained their independence; and the strength

which they thus acquired enabled Teres to in-

corjxjrate many Thrucian tribes with his subjects.

He extended his kingdom to (he Kuxine. in spite of

a signal defeat which he sustained in that quarter

from the Thyni (Xen. Anab. vii. 2. § 22); and

the dominion of his son Sitalces embraoed the

greater part of Thrace; having been bounded on the

N. by the Danube, and extending from Abderaon the

W. to the Kuxine on the E. (Thucyd.ii. 96—98.)

Indeed, so powerful was this monarch that his al­

liance was eagerly courted both by the Athenians

and Lacedaemonians at the breaking out of the

Peloponnesian War. (Thucyd. ii. '29; Herod, vii.

137; Aristoph, Acham. 136—150.) The expe­

dition which he undertook in b.c. 429, at the in­

stance of the Athenians, and of Amyntas, pretender

to the throne of Macedonia, against Perdiccas II.,

the reigning sovereign of that country, is also a

striking proof of the jKjwer of the Odrysians at that

period ; as the army which Sitalces assembled on

that occasion amounted, on the lowest estimate, to

150.000 men, of which one-third were cavalry.

(Time. ii. 98; Diod. xii. 50.) For the latter force,

indeed, the Odrysians were renowned, and the ex­

tensive plains of the Hebrus afforded pasture for

an excellent breed of horses. (Tbuc. I.e.; Polyb.

xxiv. 0: Liv. xliv. 42.) With this army Sitalces

overran Chalcidice, Anthemus, Crestonia, and Myg-

donia; but the non-appearance of the Athenian

contingent, coupled with the approach of winter,

obliged him hastily to retire after a month's cam­

paign. In n. c. 424 Sitalces fell in an engagement

with the Triballi, and was succeeded by his nephew

Seuthes I. Under his reign the Odrysians attained

the highest pitch of their power and prosperity.

Their yearly revenue amounted to 400 talents, be­

sides an equal sum in the shape of presents and

contributions. (Thue. ii. 97. iv. 101.) But from

this [>eriod the power of the Odrysians began sen­

sibly to wane. After the death of Seuthes we find

his dominions divided among three sovereigns.

Medocus, or Amailocus, who was most probably his

son, ruled t lie ancient seat of the monarchy; Mae-

sades, brother of Medocus, reigned over the Thyni,

MeUnditae, and Tranipsae; whilst the region above

Byzantium called the Delta was governed by Teres.

(Xen. Anab. vii. 2. § 32, vii. 5." § 1.) It was in

the reign of Medocus that Xenophon and the Ten

Thousand passed through Thrace on their return

from the Persian exjiedition. and hel]ied to rest"re

Senthes, .son of the exiled Maosades, to his do­

minions. We gather from this writer that Scathes

exercised only a subordinate power under Medocus, j

with the title of Archon. or governor, of the Coast!

(vii. 3. § 16). Subsequently, however, he appears;

to have asserted his claim to an independent sove­

reignty, and to have waged open war with Medocus, |

til] they were reconciled and gained over to ft*

Athenian alliance by Thrasyhulus. (X«i.

iv. 8. § 25; I Mod. xiv. 94.) When we next bar

of tlie Odrysians, w-e find them enraged ia b»-

tilities with tlie Athenians respecting the Tb-wua

Chersonese. This was under their kir.» C<*t. 1,

who reigned from B. c. 382 to 353. It m in :h»

reien of the same monarch (b.c. 376) th*t tt*

Tribulli invaded their territories, and pairs'i*

far as Abdera. (Diod. xv. 36.) When Or*

bleptes, the son and successor of Cotys, sscpdj-j t>

throne, the Udrysians api«ear to hive stili mirri

possession of the country us far as the ct**t "t ■>

Euxiue. But a civil war soon broke out \*v**n

that monarch and Berisades and Ama^nr-, tJm

were probably his brothers, and to whom Cofys ha

left some portions of his kingdom. The Atii^iwa

availed themselves of these dissensions to eaia j»*

session of the Chersonese, which appears to rj-n

been finally ceded to them in B.C. 357. (I'M

xvi. 34.) But a much more fatal i4ow u>

power of the Odrysians was struck by Philip 11.'

Macedon. After nine or ten years of warfare, Ptefcj

at last succeeded (b. c 343) in conquexinr if^

and reducing them to the condition of tribcarn

(Diod. xvi, 71; Dem. de Chers. p. 105.) Ii

exact nature of their relations with Philip asm

be ascertained; but that their subjurarna t.v

have been complete Appears from the tar: *A ti

having founded colonies in their territory, especui

Philippopolis, on the right bank of the Hehnu-U

in the very heart of their ancient seat. Their *d

jection is further shown by the cirenmstae:* I

their cavalry being mentioned as serving si tl

army of Alexander under Agathon, son of Tjrnrna

(Arrian, iii. 12. § 4.) But a still more d&rju

proof is, that alter Alexander's lieutenant 7.q:yt

had been defeated by the Getae. the Odrysia» n

incited by their king, Seuthes III., to rebel «£*j

the Macedonians. (Curt. x. 1. § 45; Ju*&c 1

1.) After the death of Alexander. Studies W

the field against Ly&imachus, to whom Turn* i

devolved, with an army of 20,000 foot and SI

horse, — a sad falling off from the force* i<rc*

arrayed by Sitalces. (Diod. xviii. 14; P«*a k

§6.) The struggle with Lysimacbus wa> ran

on with varied success. Under Philip III. *i 3

cedon, the Odrysians were still in a state nf r?»

In ii. c. 211 that monarch assembled an am* n

the ostensible design of marching to the nenj

Byzantium, but in reality to overawe the ni-k'd

chieftains of Thrace. (Liv. xxxix. 35.) In 1

we find Philip undertaking an expe*litMi

the Odrysians, Dentheletae, and Bessi. He I

ceeded in taking Philippopolis, which tbr inid

ants deserted at his approach, and where h* «

hlished a garrison, which was expelled short}? i

his departure. (Liv. xxxix. 53; Polyb. £r J

xlviii.) It may be assumed from Livy that

occasion the Odrysians were supported ib ll'-J

volt by the Romans (xlii. 19, xlv. 4'2). Afar

fall of the Macedonian kingdom, the Odryssw

pear to have been treated with conaider&i: e

the Romans, who employed them as useftJ i

against the newly-eonqaered districts, as «el

against the other Thracian tribes; amongst *

the Bes-si had now raised themselves to sk. •

portance. After this period the history *

Odrysians is for some time involved in <ir#f1

though they were doubtless gradually fall'&f I

and more under the KomaD dominion, la th*

