804 ROMA. ROMA.

indeed, they are mentioned in one breath in the

Aotitio. (■' Aedem Matris Deum et Apollinis Rham-

nnsii.") That this Tholus Cybeles may have been

the temple which once occupied the site of the

present circular church of S. Teodoro before referred

to, we can only offer a conjecture; its situation, at

least, admirably corresponds with that of the temple

of the Idaean Mother.

We rind a temple of this deity, as well as one of

Jt'VKNTAs mentioned in the A/onunientum Ancy-

rannm (tab. iv. 1. 8) as erected by Augustus on the

Palatine. The first of these may, however, have

been only a restoration of the ancient temple. We

can hardly conclude from the word feci that it was

an entirely new and separate structure; since we find

the same word used in that record with relation to

other edifices which were among the most ancient in

Rome, and of which it is not likely that there

should have been duplicates: such as the temple of

Jupiter Feretrius on the Capitol, that of Quirinus,

that of Juno Regina on the Aventine, and others.

In these cases it seems probable that the edifices

were in such a ruinous state from long neglect that

Augustus found it necessary to rebuild them from

their foundations; which would justify the use of the

word^/wri instead of rr-feci, but hardly the regarding of

them as entirely new temples. The great care used

by Augii;>tus in restoring the ancient temples is

alluded to by Horace ((hi. hi. G). The temple of

J u vent as may possibly have been new, at all events

it could hardly have been the one dedicated by

C. Licinius Lueullus about the same time as that of

the M;iter Magna Idaea, since the former was in

the Circus Maxitnus. (Liv. xxxvi. 36; cf. Cic.

Brut. 18, ad Att. i. 18.)

What the Pkmtapylum may have been which is

mentioned in the Xntitia between the temple of

Apollo and the palace of Augustus, it is difficult to

say, except that it was probably a building with five

gates. Preller (Reyivnen, p. 183) cites a passage

from an anonymous describer of the Antiquities of

Constantinople in Bauduri (Imp. Orient, i. p. 21),

in which a building in that city called Tetrapylum,

which was used for depositing and bewailing the

corpse of the emperor, or of that of any member of

his family, is mentioned; and as this building is

said to have been imitated from one at Rome, Preller

thinks it highly probable that the Peutapylum in

question may have afforded the model, and been used

for a similar purpose.

Of the temples of JuriTKB VlOTOB and Ji titer

Statok — the former near the Nova Via and Porta

Mugionis, the latter farther off towards the Sacra Via

— we have already spoken when describing the Ro-

mulean city; besides which there seems to have been

a temple of Jupiter Propugnatob, probably of

the time of the Antouines, known only from an in­

scription. (Gruter. ccc. 2; Orel!. 42; Caniaa, In-

diaizi-jiit-, p. JG'J.) We have also had occasion to

mention the Curiae Vktkrbs and the sacellum of

Fohtuna Rkjjpicikxs. Other ancient buildings

and shrines on tiie Palatine, the sites of which

cannot be exactly determined, were the Curia

Sauorum (Palatinoruin), where the ancilia and

the lituus Romuli were preserved, probably not

far from the temple of Vesta (Dionys. ii. 70; Cic.

Die. i. 17 ; Gruter, fiiscr. elxiii. 5; Orel!. 2244);

a f'anum, or Ara Ferris (Cie. Leg. ii. II; Val.

Max. ii. 5. § G; Plin. ii. 5), an ancient sacellum

of the Dea Viriplaca, the appeasing deity of

connubial quarrels (Val. Max. ii. 1. § 6); and an

'Afpotiiutov, or Temj'le of Vtsrs (t)"uo Cm

Ixxiv. 3).

When the Romans began to impror? uVr

mestic architecture, and to build liner hs»euBi

those which had contented their more shtpJ* »»■

tors, the Palatine, from it* excellent and coBiea*

situation, early became a fashionable quarter,

have already alluded slightly to some of tht w»

noted residences on this hill. The boos* of \mti-

viuft Vaci-us is one of the most ancient »Lk:

find mentioned in this quarter. It waspul>»i w«"

ii. c. 330 in consequence of the treasonous snfM

of its owner; after which the site rriniirrrd;

upon, and obtained the name of Yaco 1'eata(L/t

viii. 19; Ps. Cic. p. Pom. 38); but bow mt <

remained in this state it is impossiL>k to »y. Tia

PoRTiCL'S Catch rose on the lr^htinerroro»«EJf

cause. Its site had previously been occupy !n ^»

house of M. Kulvius Flaceus, who per^hei a 'JI

sedition of C. Gracchus: the bouse wastiira rurf,

and the ground on which it stood caued FLAcmsi

AjiEA, till this portico was erected on it b? -'*'■*

tins Catulus, after his Cimbric vktorv. (\x-

vi. 3. § 1 ; Ps. Cic. p. 43.) Sear it fitt ■

House of Cicero which he bought eiCrmm.-1

probably not the celebrated orator. — lbeut?--*

we have already related. It seems to fca*f

the XE. side of the Palatine, as Cicero t> deo*

by Plutarch as traversing the Sacra Vl-v ii I

arrive at the forum (Cic. 22): and Vitus? «l

Cicero " vicinum consults,*1 that is. of Cantr ^

then dwelt in the Regia (ad Att. ii. 24). CiTuJ

House was also on the Palatine, and »so smm

by Augustus to his re^dence, (SuK. liL

17.) Here also was a House of Axrcsrca, «•

Augustus presented to Agrippa and Meau

Cass. liii. 27); and also the HorsB or S

famed for its magnificence. (Cic. Scsur. 27;

xxxvi. 3.)

With the reign of Augustus a new eric

for the Palatine. It was now marked oat

imperial re:>idence; and in process of tint. \

buildings erected by successive tmperors ov&-i4

the hill, and excluded all private |>fe>es&i I

gustus was born in this Region, at a piaoe M

ad Capita Bubula, the situation of wbeft H

unable to determine (Suet. Attg. 5). la ear> 4

hood he occupied the house of the oraiorC la

Calvus *'juxta forum super &caias analm**!

72); hut neither can the site of xh'ta hm ra*i\

n itely fixed. Hence he removed to tie Palata*.«

r. z*i m

mi :s

at first occupied the House or Ho«ts3>

he

a dwelling conspicuous neither far size wr spied

(lb.) After his victory over Sexto* I^tant*^*

appears to have purchased seveml b^a«e« a' I

his own, and to have vowed the Temple or Ari

which he afterwards built (Veil. PaL ii.

Cass. lxix. 15.) This temple, the second oral

to that deity at Rome—the earlier one bfcac %

Circus Flaminius—does not.however.af-fem: tti

been begun till after the battle of „\<tiara, or I

events the plan of it was extended after xitmi

It is well known that after that victory Mm^

dedicated a temple to the Leucadian Ap> >

Actium, and in like manner the new «?r».%

the Palatine was referred to the same bWrr. 4

the phrases '* Actiiis Apollo" (Vine. Am. vmi

Prop. iv. 6. 67), and" Phoebus Xarabs" \-i

Navali stant sacra Palatia Phoebo,* r*rotw w. 1.1

was dedicated in b. c 27. It was stmasd

a portico containuig the L-i. l . ^si

