TLATAEA. PLATAKA. 639

tl rnrmriz for mtk Apace nearly parallel with one

r*Srr, at lencfth unite and flow in a westerly di-

M ieto the pnlf of Corinth. (Herod, ix. 51.)

W oatnre of the ground would thus afford to the

*l* abundance of water, and protection from the  
war* cavalry. Tbe rvtreat, however, though for

rt a dintance. was effected in disorder and eon-

t_ The Greek centre, chiefly composed of Me­

ruit* mad Corinthians, probably fearing that the

mi wooi'i not afford them sufficient protection

vm* the ene-n v s car airy, did not halt till they

ca«d the temple of Hera, which was in front of

m*wn of Plataea. The Lacedaemonians on the

r-. wvre delayed till the day began to dawn,

ta* •obwtinaey of Amompharetus, and then began

harcii aenm the hills which separated them from

Uixul. The Athenians on the left wing began

r aarch at the same time, and pot round the

1w< . >t plain an the other bide on their way to

ti'i-irf After marchinc 10 stadia, Pausanias

c« the back of the Moloeis, at a place called

a temple of the Kleusinian

» joined by Amompharetus,

fearr he had to sustain the attack of the Persians,

m%i rushed acrou the Asopus and up the hill

f n* retreating t"<As soon as Pausanias was

— by the Persians, he sent to the Athenians

-- vi them to hasten to bis aid; but the coming  
i. » .-..I-.- j.i-irn'.i-.i tliL-m tVuiii doing bo.

r; \^>J the Lacedaemonians and Tcgeatans had

^•er the Persians alone without any assist-

Irun the other Greeks, and to them alone be­

lt* ffary of the victory. The Persians were

hmi with £rem& slaughter, nor did they stop in

'I till they had again crowed the Asopus

m mj their fortified camp. The Thebans also

Tombed by tbe Athenian*, hut they retreated

mi orckr to The bos, being covered by their

y fraaa tike? pursnit of the Athenians. The

which was nearly 10 stadia distant,

in the battle; but hearing that the

gaining the victory, they lias-

k* the mm imi of action, and, coming up in con*

. mj aaaer m* €W>> were cut to pieces by the

* i err. Meantime the Lacedaemonians pur-  
.» FW-i*^f to the fortified camp, which, how-

s-w were unable to take until the Athenians,

iat species of warfare, came to their

Laxricader* were then carried, ami a

With the exception of

Arlabazus, only 3000 of

said to have escaped,

the topography of this

Greece, vol. ii. p. 335,

of Ortece, vol. v. p. 2l2,seq

orr had been c

gained on the soil

red especial honour and

:e Greeks. Notonlv was

■ csti;

thm _.

iA SO talents granted to them, whicli

erecting a temple to Athena, but

with the duty of rendering every

to the tombs of the warriors

* fallen to Uw battle, and of celebrating every  
an the •eatrraJ of the Eleutheria in com-

of the oWIjverance of tbe Greeks from

*-s*. jJke. The festival was sacred to Zeus  
erca, t»* whom a tempi* was now erected at

k. fa return fur these services Pausanias and

n-tmmka swore to guarantee the independence

mmhkhxr of the dtj and its territory. (Thuc.

1st .l'rwt c. 19—91 \ Strab. ix. p. 412;

Paus. ix. 2. § 4; for further details see Diet, of Ant.

art. Elkuthkhia.)

Plataea was of course now rebuilt, and its in­

habitants continued unmolested till the commence­

ment of the Peloponnesian War. In the spring of

B.C. 431, before any actual declaration of war, a

party of 300 Thebaic attempted to surprise Plataea.

They were admitted within the walls in the night

time by an oligarchical party of the citizens; but the

Plataeans soon recovered from their surprise, and put

to death 180 of the assailants. (Thuc. ii. 1, seq.)

In the third year of the war (b. c. 429) the Pelo­

ponnesian army under the command of Arehidamus

laid siege to Plataea. This siege is one of the most

memorable in the annals of Grecian warfare, and has

been narrated at great length by Thucydides. The

Plataeans had previously deposited at Athens their

old men, women, and children; mid the garrison of

the city consisted of only 400 citizens and 80 Athen­

ians, together with 110 women to manage their

household affairs. Yet this small fort e set at de­

fiance the whole army of the Peloponnesians, who,

after inany fruitless attempts to take the city by

assault, converted the siege into a blockade, and

raised a circumvallation round the city, consisting

of two parallel walls, 1G feet nsunder, with a ditch

on either side. In the second year of the blockade

212 of the besieged during a tempestuous winter's

night succeeded in scaling the walls of circumval­

lation and reaching Athens in safety. In the course

of the ensuing summer (n. c. 427) the remainder of

the garrison were obliged, through failure of pro­

visions, to surrender to the Peloponnesians. They

were all put to death; and all the private buildings

rased to the ground by the Thebans, who with the

materials erected a sort of vast barrack round the

temple of Hern, both for the accommodation of vi­

sitors, and to serve as an abode for those to whom

they let out the land. A new temple, of 100 feet

in length (cei-y ^KaTOftirc5o?), was also built by

the Thebans in honour of Hera. (Thuc. ii. 71, seq.(

hi. 20, seq., 52, seq.t 68.)

The surviving Plataeans were kindly received by

the Athenians. They would appear even before this

time to have enjoyed the right of citizenship at

Athens (*A0ij*euW (v^i/xaxot Kol woA7toi, Thuc in.

63). The exact nature of this citizenship is un­

certain; but that it was not the full citizenship,

possessed by Athenian citizens, appears from a line

of Aristophanes, who speaks of certain slaves, who

had been engaged in sea-fights, being made Plataeans

(tral nAorroiaj tvQvs «7rou K&m\ HovAcvv Scaworar,

Ran. 706: com p. Schol. ad Aristoph. Han. 33;

Boekh, labile Econ. of Athens, p. 262, 2nd ed.).

Diodoras, in rolating their return to Athens at a

subsequent time, says (xv. 46) that they received

the iVoroAiTfi'o; but that some of them at any rate

enjoyed nearly the full privileges of Athenian citi­

zens appears from the decree of the people quoted

by Demosthenes (c. Seaer. p. 1380). On the whole

subject, see Hermann, Staatsalterth, § 117.

In B. v. 420 the Athenians gave the Plataeans

the town of Scions as a residence. (Thuc. v. 32;

Isocr. Paneg. § 109; Piodor. xii. 76 ) At the close

of the Peloponnesian War, they were compelled to

evacuate Scione (Plut. Lysand. 14), and again found

a hospitable welcome at Athens. Here they were

living at the time of the peace of Antalcidas (b. c.

387). which guaranteed the autonomy of the Gre­

cian cities; and the Lacedaemonians, who were now

anxi his to humble the power of Thebes, took ad-

