NINGTJM. NINUS. 437

to Lacian, indeed (Jupiter Tragaed. § 42), the

Aegvptians sacrificed to the element of water, not

locally, but universally. Pictorially, the Mile was

represented under a round and plump figure, of a

•Woe colour, and sometimes with female breasts, indi­

cative of its productive and nutritive powers. On

the base of the throne of Amenophis-Memnon, at

Thebes, two figures represent the Nile, similar in all

other respects, except that one is crowned with lotus

to denote the upper courses of the river, the other

with papyrus to designate the lower. [See Aeoyp-

tis, p. 37.] (Rosellini, Mon. del Cult.; Kenrick's

Ancient Aegypt, vol. i. pp. 349—463.) [W.B.D.]

NINGUM. [Istria.]

NIN1VE. [Nilcs.]

NINNITACI. [Minaticum.]

NINUS (i N?yos or N[«n, Herod i. 193, ii. 150;

Ptol. vi 1. § 3; Kiyoi n (to! Ni*«/f, PtoL viii. 21.

§ 3; Ninini, Joseph. Ant. Jud ix. 10. § 2; Ninus,

Tacit. Ann. xii. 13; Ninive, Amm. Marc, xviii. 7,

xxiii. 6: Kth'Htvtos, Steph. B. a. v.), a great city,

and far many centuries the capital of ancient Assy­

ria. It will be convenient to notice here such ac­

cents as we have from the Bible and ancient his­

torians, and then to state succinctly the curious

results of the recent discoveries of Mr. Layard,

Colonel Rawlinson, and other modern travellers.

L Nineveh is first mentioned in the Bible among

the eight primeval cities in Genesis (x.ll), and is

there elated to have been founded either by Nimrod

himself, or, according to another reading, by his

lieutenant, Assur, the Affffoupaj of Joseph. Ant. Jud.

i. 6. § 4, and the Eponymus of Assyria. The latter

view is the most agreeable to the construction of the

Hebrew text. From this period we have no mention

of it in Holy Scripture for more than a thousand

years; and when it is noticed again, on Jonah being

sent thither to preach repentance, it is described as

a '• city of three days' journey" (Jonah, iii. 3), and

as - that great city wherein are six score thousand

persons, that cannot discern between their right

hand and their left hand." (Jonah, iv. 11.) Sub­

sequently to this time, it is not referred to by name,

except in 2 Kings, xix. 37, and Iiaiah, xxxvi. 37,

as the residence of Sennacherib, after his return

from the invasion of Judaea; in the prophets Nahum

and Zephaniah, who predict its speedy downfal; and

in the apocryphal books of Tobit and Judith, the

firmer of whom long lived in the great city.

IL The earliest classical mention of Nineveh is

by Herodotus, who places it on the Tigris (i. 193,

ii. 150), but does not state on which bank it stood;

in this be is confirmed by Arrian (11 uL Intl. c. 42)

and Strabo, who in one place calls it the metropolis

of Syria, i.e. Assyria (ii. p. 84), in another states it to

have been a city more vast than even Babylon, lying

in the plain of Aturia (a dialectical change of name

for A»yria), beyond the Lycus (or Great Zdb) with

reference to Arbela (xvi. p. 737). Pliny places it

on the cast bank of the Tigris "ad solis occa.sum

ipectans" (vi. 13. s. 16); Ptolemy, along the Tigris,

but without accurate definition of its position (vi. 1.

§ 3). The same may be said of the notice in Taci-

Ms (Aimnl. xii. 13), and in Ammianus, who calls it

a va»t city of Adiabene. On the other hand, Dio-

dorus. professing to copy Ctesias, places it on the

Euphrates (ii. 3, 7), which is the more remarkable,

as a fragment of Nicolaus Dauiascenus, who has

jires^ned a portion of Ctesias, is still extant, in

wiii.h Nineveh occupies its correct position on the

Tigris. (.Frag. U'ut. Craec. vol. iii. p. 858, ed.

Muller.) It may be remarked that in much later

times the name appears to have been applied to more

than one town. Thus Ammianus in one passage

seems to think that Hierapolis was the "vetus

Ninus" (xiv. 8). Philostratus ( Kit. Apoll. Tyan.

i. 19) speaks of a Ninus on this side of the Euphra­

tes; and Eusebius, in his Chronicon, asserts, that in

his time it was called Nisibis. No doubt much of

the obscurity in the minds of ancient writers, both

as to its position and the real history of the empire

of which it was the capital, arose from the circum­

stance that its entire overthrow preceded the ear­

liest of the Greek historians by nearly 200 years,

and that it does not appear to have been rebuilt at

any period of the classical ages. So complete was

its destruction, that, though Xenophon inarched

within a few miles of it, he was not aware of its ex­

istence, though, in his allusion to the " Median city

of Mespila," he doubtless is describing one of the

great outworks of the Assyrian capital (Anab. iii. 4.

§10); while, with the exception of Arrian, none of

the historians of the campaigns of Alexander, who,

like Xenophon, must have passed it on his way to

fight the battle of Arbela, allude to it. That the

ancients generally believed in its entire destruction,

is clear from Pausanias, who classes it with My­

cenae, Thebae, and other ruined cities (viii. 33. § 2);

from Lucian (Charon, c. 23), and from St ratio

(xvi. p. 737). The last, indeed, has on argument

that Homer, who mentions Thebes in Egypt, and

the wealth of Phoenicia, could not have omitted

Babylon, Nineveh, and Ecbatuna, had he ever heard

of them (xv. p. 735). But though so early a ruin,

the ancients generally had a correct idea of the

wonderful greatness of Nineveh, and many passages

are scattered through the classical writers, giving a

manifest proof of this belief of the people. Thus

Strabo himself, as we have seen, considered Nineveh

greater than Babylon (xvi. p. 737); while Diodorus

has a long and exaggerated narrative of the vast

extent of Ninus's capital (which, as we stated be­

fore, he places incorrectly on the Euphrates, ii.

p. 7). Some curious incidental facts are preserved.

Thus, the vast mound Semiramis erected as a tomb

for her husband Ninus, by the river-side, is almost

certainly the Pyramid at Nimriul, though the re­

sults of Mr. Layard's last excavations have not

proved that this structure was a tomb. (Diod. ii. 7;

comp. with Layard, Nineveh and Babylon, p. 128).

Again, Amyntas (as quoted by Athenaeus) states,

that at the town of Ninus was a high mound, which

was thrown down by Cyrus when he attacked the

city, that this was traditionally the tomb nf Sarda-

napalus, and had a stele on it inscribed with Chal-

daic (i. e. Assyrian) letters. (Amynt. Frogin p.

136, ed. Muller; cf. also Polyaen. vii. 25.) Nor

must we omit the presence of what has been held by

all numismatists to be a traditional representation of

this celebrated tomb on the Tetradrachms of Anti-

ochus VIII., king of Syria, which were struck at

Tarsus, and on the imperial coins of Anchialus

(both places connected with the name of Sarda-

napalus). Again we have the legend of Diodorus,

that the Assyrians sent assistance to the Trojans

against the Greeks (ii. 22; cf. Plat. I*g. p. 296,

ed. Bckker), — the "busta Nini" of Ovid (Me-

tam. iv. 88), though referred by him wrongly to

Babylon,— and the occurrence, in several of the

poets, of the name of Assnracus (now known through

Colonel Kawliuson's interpretations to be a Graecized

form of the genuine Assyrian Assaiac, the Arrdpox

F F 3

