L1SSUS. LITANOBRIGA- 197

in the \V. part of the island agrees very well with

the supposition that its site was on the spot now

called Hdghio Kyrko. This place occupies a small

hollow of the hills facing the sea, like a theatre.

Near the church of the Panaghia are what appear

to be vestiges of an ancient temple, consisting of

granite columns, and white marble fragments, ar­

chitraves, and pediments. Further on, appears to

have been another temple, and a theatre. The tombs

are on the SW. side of the plain. They are worked

independent of the rock, with arched roofs. There

are perhaps fifty of them. (Pashley, Trap, vol. ii.

p. 88; Mm. Class. Ant. vol. ii. p. 298.)

Of all the towns which existed on this part of the

coast, Lissus alone seems to have struck coins, a

fact which agrees very well with the evidence sup­

plied by its situation, of its having been a place of

some trading importance. The harbour is mentioned

by Scykx (p. 11*), and the types of the coins are

either maritime, or indicative of the worship of Dic-

tynns, as might have been expected on this part of

the island The obverse of one coin bears the

impress of the caps and stars of the Dioscuri, and

its reverse a quiver and arrow. On the second coin

the caps and stars are replaced by a dolphin, and

instead of the quiver a female head, probably that

of Artemis or Dictynna. (Comp. Eckhel, vol. ii.

p. 315.) [E. B.J.]

^ LISMJS (A(ff<r«, Strab. vii. p. 316; PtoL ii. 16.

§ 5; Steph. B-; Hierocles; PeuL Tab.), a town of

Illyricum, at the mouth of the river Drilo. Dionysius

the elder, in his schemes for establi>hing settlements

sown? the lllyrian tribes, founded Lissus. (Diod.

xt. 13.) It was afterwards in the hands of the

Hlyrians, who, after they had been defeated by the

Romans, retained this port, beyond which their

vessels were not allowed to sail. (Polyb. ii. 12.)

s. c. 211, Philip of Macedon, having surprised

the citadel Acrolissus, compelled the town to sur­

render. (Polyb. viii. 15.) Genii us, the lllyrian

kin?, collected his forces here for the war against

Eorae. (Liv. xliv. 30.) A body of Roman citizens

was stationed there by Caesar (B. C. iii. 26—29)

to defend the town: and Pliny (iii. 26). who says

that it was 100 M.P. from Kpidaiirus, describes it

as "oppidum civium Romanorum.'' Constant)ne

P'irphyrotreneta (de Adm. Imp. c. 30) calls it *EAi<r-

«S and it now bears the name of Lesck (Leake,

.WtAem Grtece, vol. iii. p. 477; Schafarik, Slav.

Alt. vol. ii. p. 275.) [E. B J.]

LISTA (AiVto), a very ancient city of Central

Italy, which, according to Varro (op. Dion. Hal.

i. 14). was the metropolis of the Aborigines, when

tint people still dwelt hi the mountain valleys

airtond Rcate. It was surprised by the Sabines by

»tight attack from Ami tern um; and the inhabit­

ant* took refuge in Rcate, from whence they made

«*eral fruitless attempts to recover possession of

their city; but failing in this, they declared it, with

the fturrounding territory, sacred to the gods, and

ittfrecated curses on all who should occupy it.

Tlus circumstaj.ee probably accounts for the absence

°f all "tlier mention of it; though it would seem

ikit its ruins still remained in the time of Varro,

<* at lira^t that its site was clearly known. This

has been in modem times a subject of much dispute.

Accwdin* to the present text of Dionysius, it was

stoated 24 stadia from Tiora, the ruins of which

are ^ruhably those at Castore near Sta. Anatolia, in

the upper valley of the Salto, 36 miles from Rieti.

fcutatu accordingly places it at Sta. Anatolia itself,

where there are some remains of an ancient city*

But Holstenins long ago pointed out a site about 3

miles from Beate itself, on the road from thence to

Civita Ditcale, still called Monte dx Lesta, where

there still exist, according to a local antiquarian,

Martelli, and Sir W. Gell, the remains of an ancient

city, with walls of polygonal construction, and a

site of considerable strength. The situation of

these ruins would certainly be a more probable posi­

tion for the capital of the Aborigines than one so

far removed as Sta. Anatolia from their other settle­

ments, and would accord better with the natural

line of advance of the Sabines from Amiternum,

which must have been by the pass of Antrodoco

and the valley of the Vclino. In this case we must

understand the distance of 24 stadia (3 miles), as

stated by Dionysius (or rather by Vnrro, whom he

cites), as having reference to Reate itself, not to

Tiora. (Bunsen, Antichi Stabilimenti Italici, in

Ann. d. Inst. Arch. vol. vi. p. 137 ; Gell's Topo­

graphy of Rome, p. 472; Holsten. Not. in Cluver.

p. 114.) [E.H.B.]

LISTRON (Aurrp&v), a place in Epirus Nova,

mentioned by Hierocles with a fortress Alxstrus

('AAurrpor, Procop. de Aed. iv. 4). It is probably

represented by the village and castle of Klisi'tray

situated on the river Aous (FtVwa), which is men­

tioned by Cantacuzenus (KAcutov/m, ii. 32; comp.

Anna Comneua, xiii. p. 390) in the fourteenth

century, together with other places which are still

to be recognised as having been the chief strong­

holds in this part of Greece. [Aors.] (Leake,

Northern Greece, vol. i. p. 383.) [E. B. J.]

LITA'BRUM. [Vaccaei].

L1TANA SILVA, a forest in the territory of the

Boians in Gallia Cispadana, memorable for the de­

feat of the Roman consul L. Postumius,in b. c. 216.

On this disastrous occasion the consul himself

perished, with his whole army, consisting of two

Roman legions, augmented by auxiliaries to the

amount of 25,000 men. (Liv. xxiii. 24; Frontin.

Stmt. i. 6. § 4.) At a later period it witnessed,

on the other^ hand, a defeat of the Boians by the

Roman consul L. Valerius Flaccus, B. c. 195. (Liv.

xxxiv. 22.) The forest in question appears to have

Iwen situated somewhere between Bononia and Pla-

centia, but its name is never mentioned after the

reduction of Cisalpine Gaul, and its exact site

cannot be determined. It is probable, indeed, that

a great part of the tract between the Apennines and

the marshy ground on the banks of the Padus was

at this time covered with forest. [E. H. B.]

LITANOBRIGA, in Gallia, is placed by the An-

tonine Itin. between Caesaromagus (Beauvais) and

Augustomagus, which D'Anville supposes to be Sen-

lis. According to his reading, the Itin. makes it

xviii. Gallic leagues from Caesaromagus to Litano-

briga, and iiii. from Litanobriga to Augustomagus.

VValckenaer (Gcog. c/c, vol. iii. p. 55) makes the

first distance xvi., and the second iiii.: and he places

Caesaromagus at Verberie, near the river Autone.

The Table mentions no place between Caesaromagus

and Augustomagus, but it makes the whole distance

xxii. We may assume that Litanobriga was situ­

ated at a ford or bridge over a river, and this river is

the Oise. D'Anville first thought that Litanobriga

might be Pont Sainte-Maxence, for a Roman road

from Beaurais, called Brunehaut, passes by Cler­

mont, and joins a road from Pont-Sainte-Maxence.

But the numbers in the Itins. fall short of the dis­

tance between Beaurais and Senlis; and accordingly

o 3

