ITALIA. M ITALIA.

distant from the Tyrrhenian sea, the olive would no

longer flourish (Ovid, Fast. iv. 683); though it

grows with the utmost luxuriance at Tibur, at a

distance of little more than 15 miles, but on the

^:heni slope of the Apennines. The richness and

fertility of the Campanian plains, and the beautiful

shores of the Bay of Naples, were proverbial; while

the Samnite valleys, hardly removed more than a

day** journey towards the interior, had all the

characters of highland scenery. Nor was this con­

trast confined to the physical characters of the regions

in question: the rude and simple mountaineers of the

Saliine or Marsic valleys were not less different from

tin luxurious inhabitants of Etruria and Campania;

and thfir frugal and homely habitsof life are constantly

alluded to by the Roman poets of the empire, when

nothing but the memory remained of those warlike

virtue* for which they had been so distinguished at

an earlier perud.

Central Italy, as the term is hero used, comprised

the countries known to the Romans as Etruria,

Vmbri a (including the district adjoining the Adriatic

previously occupied by the Galli Senones), Pick-

mm, the land of the Sabixi, Vestim, Marsi,

1'eugxi, JIakrlcxni, and Frkntani, all Sam-

mi jt, together witli Latjum (in the widest sense of

the name) and Campania. A more detailed ac-

cuant of the physical geography of these several

leciona. as well as of the people that inhabited them,

will be found in the respective articles.

3. Soi:tiikrn Italt, according to the distino-

ti-Hi above established, comprises the southern part

oi" tlie peninsula, from the river Silams on the W.,

and the f'rento on the E., to the lapygian pro-

ni"ntTT on the Ionian, and that of Leucopetra

towards the Sicilian, sea. It thus includes the four

province* or districts of Apulia, Calabria (in

tb<- Ionian sense of the name), Lucania, and

BRt'TTif m. The physical geography of this region

i* in great part determined by the chain of the

Apennines, which, from the frontiers of Saninium, is

continued through the heart of Lucania in a broad

ma** of mountains, which is somewhat narrowed as

it enters the Brutiian peninsula, but soon spreads

out again sufficiently to fill up almost the whole of

that iii«trict from shore to shore. The extreme

fcratbern mass of the Apennines forms, indeed, a

detached mountain range, which in its physical

characters and direction is more closely connected

*:th the mountains in the NE. of Sicily than with  
the proper chain of the Apennines [Afknninus];

so that the notion entertained by many ancient

writer* that Sicily bad formerly been joined to the

mainland at Khegium, though wholly false with

nrfcrcTKT to historical times, is undoubtedly true in

» geological sense. The name of the Apennines is,

however, universally given by geographers to the

whole range which terminates in the bold pro­

montory uf Leucopetra {Capo delT Armi).

Eart of the Apennines, and S. of the Krento, there

extends a broad plain from the foot of the moun­

tains to the sea, forming the greater part of Apulia,

cr the tract now known as I'uglia piana; while,

& of this, an extensive tract ot hilly country (not,

however, rising to any considerable elevation) branches

«T from the Apennines near Venusia, and extends

•long the frontiers of Apulia and Lucania, till it

■fpruachea the sea between Egnatia and Krundu-

aium. The remainder of the peninsula of Calabria

or Mes&apia, though it may be considered in some

decree as a cuutinuation of the same tract, presents

notliing that can be called a range of hills, much

less of mountains, as it is erroneously represented on

many maps. [Calabria.] Between the central

mass of the Apennines (which occupies the heart of

Lucania) and the gulf of Tarentum, is another broad

hilly tract, gradually descending as it approaches

the shores of the gulf, which are bordered by a strip

of alluvial plain, varying in breadth, but nowhere

of great extent.

The Apennines do not attain to so great an eleva­

tion in the southern part of the Italian peninsula as

in its more central regions; and, though particular

summits rise to a considerable height, we do not

here meet with the same broad mountain tracts or

upland valleys as further northward. The centre of

Lucania is, indeed, a rugged and mountainous

country, and the lofty groups of the Monti dHUi

Maddalenat S. of Potetua, the Mtc. Pollino, on the

frontiers of Bruttium, and the Si/a, in the heart of

the latter district, were evidently, in ancient as well

as modem times, wild and secluded districts, almost

inaccessible to civilisation. But the coasts both of

Lucania and Bruttium were regions of the greatest

beauty and fertility; and the tract extending along

the shores of the Tnrentine gulf, though now wild

and desolate, is cited in ancient times as an almost

proverbial instance of a beautiful and desirable

country. (Archil, ap. Atken. xii. p. 523.) Tho

peninsula of Calabria or Messapia, as already re­

marked by Strabo, notwithstanding the absence of

streams and the apparent aridity of the soil, is in

reality a district of great fertility, as is also tho

tract which extends along the coast of the Adriatic

from Egnatia to the mouth of the Autidus; and,

though the plains in the interior of Apulia are dry

and dusty in summer, they produce excellent corn,

and are described by Strabo as " bringing forth all

things in great abundance," (Strab. vi. p. 284.)

The general form and configuration of Italy was

well known to the ancient geographers. Polybius,

indeed, seems to have had a very imperfect notion

of it, or was singularly unhappy in his illustration;

for he describes it as of a triangular form, having

the Alps for its base, and its two sides bounded by

the sea, the Ionian and Adriatic on the one side, the

Tyrrhenian and Sicilian on the other. (Pol. ii. 14.)

Strabo justly objects to this description, that Italy

cannot be called a triangle, without allowing a

degree of curvature and irregularity in the sides,

which would destroy all resemblance to that figure;

and that it is, in fact, wholly impossible to compare

it to any geometrical figure. (Strab. v. p. 210.)

There is somewhat more truth in the resemblance

suggested by Pliny,—and which seems to have been

commonly adopted, as it is referred to also by Ru-

lilius (Pun. iii. 5. s. 6; Rutil. Itin. ii. 17) —"to the

leaf of an oak-tree, though this would imply that

the projecting portions or promontories on each sido

were regarded as more considerable than they really

are. With the exception of the two great penin­

sulas or promontories of Calabria (Messapia) and

Bruttium, which are attached to its lower extremity,

the remainder of Italy, from the Padua and tho

Macra southwards, has a general oblong form; and

Strabo truly enough describes it, when thus con­

sidered, as much about the same shape and size

with the Adriatic Sea (Strab. v. p. 211.)

Its dimensions are very variously stated by an­

cient writers. Strabo, in the comparison just cited,

calls it little less than 6000 stadia (fiOOgeog. miles)

long, and about 1300 stadia in its greatest breadth;

