MYOXXESCS. 3S7 MYRA.

4, Sab. a <*.), which belonged to Teo«.

TV neb ..f HTonneaus 'an now called Hypsili-

PSw(ff. iV.t. 37) mentions a small island of the

are i llnstu near Ephesus, which, together

til t«o <jm, Acthinae and Diarrheusa. formed

inpoM rWlrati Insulae. [L. S.]

inUOTSCS (M«ij'r>70-oi: Eth. MuorWicrioj),

> ml kloi lying off the coast of Phthiotis in

Tnalt.n tie bar between Larissa Cremaste and

ixxa. (Sin*, ii p. 435; Steph. B. I.e.)

aTiK-HORMOS {A Mi/Jj Sp,uos, Diod.,r. iu. 39;

fink, niji 760—781. xvii. p. 815; PtoL iv. 5.

fit ik\ 11} 18; PtrhpL Mar. Erythr. pp. 1, 6,

Ukafsfiirai fyuot, Agatharch. p. 54; Veneris

fna. fSo. »L 19. § 33) wan founded by Ptolemy

AaJofaa (a. c 174) upon a headland of similar

*m (UtU, ii 8. § 7.) Ha selected it for the  
?n:al Wbotr and station of the trade of Aegypt

w» ii.a, in pnrfrrence to Arsinoi? at the head of

br i>i Set co account of the tedious and difficult

s*DSi<« inn the Heroopolite gulf. The

» If'vHsi-ihb, which Indicates its Greek

•Vk. say lijatfy tlie " Harbour of the Mouse,

si wt pnbiblr mrans " the Harbour "of the

fc« '(dir. to dose, e.g the shell),since on the

*r *tint ea't ihe pearl-muscle or Pinna  
•*■»-. {ovif. the Hebrew pinmim, Job, xxxviii.

"•*». trri, 10) is collected in large quantities.

Is"". Trenail, nl til p. 314, 8vo. ed.) The

P*» afterwards changed, according to Aga-

aad those writers who copied him, to that

''■••ci*-H'imMe; but the elder appellation U

p ia»nfl» retained. Myos Honnos seems to

bw rffa;aei the designation of Aphrodite (foam of

^■s),ftvji the abundance of sea-sponge found in

of M'w-Hormos is fixed by Bruce.

*. 4t, at 17° N. It* situation is detcr-  
'• tioster if islands, called Jaffateen by

»ifttor». of which the three largest lie

'*n in indenture of the Aegyptian coast

islands and on the curve of the shore

''aAnr. Its entrance was oblique (Strab.

T '••); bat h was spacious and sheltered, and

P*"' ow to the land's edge was deep enough

J*i> of remideralle burden.

P^Honnos owed its prosperity, as well as its

«. u> tbt trade with Africa, Arabia, and

TV rer*la bound for Africa or the S. coast

P"» bit this harbour in the month of Septem-

PJ !»■ M in with the wind, which at the

* steadily from NW., and carried  
tie African roast, bringing them hack

*> wris, K,, jfj, furthe»t S. point of the  
■ bias was the town of Bhaptum, in the

► bwWka. 10° S. of the equator. The

P> *«-»i fat iDdia (tlie coast of Malabar or

p k4 Mrw-Bonnoi in July; and if they

tataeiu) of the lied Sea before tlie 1st of

tber lad behind them the monsoon for

rvitAs. The voyage out usually

1 >imi 40 days. We are not informed of

* < tt* Indian trade nnder the Ptolemies;  
^aijEBaf Claudius, when the route through

>• sfn/aiorSrst became really known to the

1 ** hm a (Mailed account of it in Pliny

•'*)• That writer calculated the worth

<im sent yearly from Home to the

c W>.W)(. »t«rling, in exchange for which

'^niwinwi of at least four times tlie value

of that amount, when sold again in Rome or Con­

stantinople. The caravans went up the Nile as far

as Coptos, whence they travelled through the

desert for 7 or 8 days to Berenice or Myos-Hormos,

and exchanged their gold for silk, spices, porcelain,

and perfumes. A pound of silk was considered

equivalent to a pound of gold. Philadelphus first

opened the road between Coptos and Myos- Hormos.

At first the caravans carried their water with them

across the desert, and employed camels for the

transport of merchandise. But afterwards caravan­

saries (orafl/ioi') were built for the use of travellers;

and wells were sunk and cisterns dug for the collec­

tion of rain water; although the supply of the latter

must have been scanty and precarious, since rain in

that latitude seldom falls.

The prosperity of Myos-Hormos as an emporium,

however, seems to have been fluctuating, and it was

finally supplanted as a depot at least by Berenice,

which, being lower down the Red Sea, was yet more

convenient for the southern trade. That it was fluc­

tuating may be inferred from the mention of it by the

geographers. Agatharchides, who composed his work

in the reign of Philometer (u. c. 180—145), in his

account of the Indian trade, makes no mention of

Berenice. Diodortis who wrote in the age of Augus­

tus, speaks of Myos-Hormos, but not of its rival.

Strabo, who was nearly contemporary with Diodorus,

says that Berenice was merely a roadstead, where the

Indian vessels took in their cargo, but that they lay

in port at Myos-Hormos. Pliny, on the other hand,

in his description of the voyage to India does not

notice Myos-Hormos at all, and speaks of it inci­

dentally only in his account of the W. coast of the

Red Sea. Accordingly, in the reigns of Vespasian

and Trajan it must have been on the decline.

There is one difficulty in the relations between

these harbours—their distance from each other.

According to the Periplus, Berenice was 1800 stadia,

or 225 miles, from Myus-Honnos, and even this is

under the mark, if Cape Has-tl-anf be the

Lcpte Promontorium of Ptolemy. As the pretext

for founding either city was the superior convenience

of each, as compared with Arsinoc (Suez), for the

Indian trade, it seems strange that the ships should

have been kept at Myos-Hormos, but the ladings

taken in at Berenice. It is more reasonable to

suppose that the latter became the principal empo­

rium of the Indian traffic; and as that increased in

importance, the port where it was principally carried

on became the more frequented and opulent place of

the two.

It is uncertain whether the ruins at the villaee of

Abuschaar represent the site of the ancient Mvos-

Hormos. [VV. B. D.']

MYRA (to Mt'po or Mupwr: F.tlt. Mvptvs), one

of the most important towns of Lycia, situated on

the river Andracus, partly on a hill and partly on

the slope of it, at a distance of 20 stadia from the

sea. (Strab. xir. p. 666; Steph. B. s r.; Plin.

xxxii. 8; Ptol. v. 6. § 3, viii. 17. § 23.) The small

town of Andriaca formed its port. It is remarkable

in history as the place where the apostle Paul landed

(^4ct>, xxv. 5); and in later times the importance of

the place was recognised in the fact that the em­

peror Thcodosius II. raised it to the rank of the

capital of all Lycia (Hierocl. p. 684.) The town

still exists, and bears its ancient name Mgra, though

the l urks call it Dembre, and is remarkable for its

fine remains of antiquity. Leake (Asia Minor, p.

183) mentions tlie ruins of a theatre 355 feet iu dia­

C r 2

