2fm LOCBL LOCKI.

from the period of their very foundation. (Strab. vi.

p. 259.) On the other hand, they were almost

constantly on terms of hostility with their neighbours

of Rhegium, and, during the rule of Anaxilas, in the

latter city, were threatened with complete destruc­

tion by that despot, from which they were saved by

the intervention of Hieron of Syracuse. (Pind. Pyth.

ii. 35 ; and Schol. (id loc.) In like manner we nnd

thein, at the period of the Athenian expeditions to

Sicily, in close alliance with Syracuse, and on terms

of open enmity with Bhegium. Hence they at first

engaged in actual honlilities with the Athenians

under Laches; and though they subsequently con­

cluded a treaty of peace with them, they still refused

to admit the great Athenian armament, in B.c. 415,

even to anchor on their coasts. (Thuc. iii. 99, 115,

iv. 1, 24, ▼. 5, vi. 44, vii. 1; Diod. xii. 54, xiii. 3.)

At a later period of the Pelopomieaian War they

were among the few Italian cities that sent auxiliary

ships to the Lacedaemonians. (Thuc. viii. 91.)

During the reign of the elder Dionysius at Syra­

cuse, the bonds of amity between the two cities were

strengthened by the personal alliance of that monarch,

who married Doris, the daughter of Xenetus, one of

the most eminent of the citizens of Locri. (Diod.

xir. 44.) He subsequently adhered steadfastly to this

alliance, which secured him a footing in Italy, from

which he derived great advantage in his wars against

the Rbegians and other states of Magna Graecia. In

return for this, as well as to secure the continuance

of their support, he conferred great benefits upon the

Locrians, to whom he gave the whole territory of

Caulonia, after the destruction of that city in

B.C. 389; to which he added that of Hipponium in

the following year, and a part of that of Scylletinm.

(Diod. xiv. 1UO, 106, 107; Strab. p. 261.) Hip­

ponium was, however, again wrested from them by

the Carthaginians in b.c. 379. (Id. xv. 24.) The

same intimate relations with Syracuse continued

under the younger Dionysius, when they became the

source of great misfortunes to the city: for that

desp»t, after his expulsion from Syracuse (b.c. 356),

withdrew to Locri, where he seized ou the citadel,

and established himself in the possession of despotic

power. His rale here is described as extremely

arbitrary and oppressive, and stained at once by the

most excessive avarice and unbridled licentiousness.

At length, after a period of six years, the Locrians

took advantage of the absence of Dionysius, and

drove out his garrison; while they exercised a cruel

vengeance upon his unfortunate wife and daughters,

who had fallen into their hands. (Justin, xxi. 2,3;

Strab. vi. p. 259; Arist. Pol. v. 7; Clearch. ap.

Atke*\ xii. 541.)

The Locrians are said to hare suffered severely

from the oppressions of this tyrant; but it is pro­

bable that they sustained still greater injury from

the increasing power of the Hruttians, who were now

become most formidable neighbours to all the Greek

cities in this part of Italy. The Locrians never ap­

pear to have fallen under the yoke of the bar­

barians, but it is certain that their city declined

greatly from its former prosperity. It is not again

mentioned till the wars of I'yrrhua. At that period

it appears that Locri, as well as iChcgium and

other Greek cities, had placed itself under the pro­

tection of Rome, and even admitted a Koman gar­

rison into its walls. On the approach of Pyrrhus

~ expelled this garrison, and declared themselves

T)ur of that monarch (Justin, xviii. 1); but

id soon cause to regret the change: for the

garrison left there by the king, during his

in Sicily, conducted itself so ill, that the Lot-ham

rose against them and expelled them from their

city. On this account they were severely punished

by Pyrrhus on his return from Sicily; and, not con­

tent with exactions from the inhabitants, he carried

off a great part of the sacred treasures from the

temple of Proserpine, the most celebrated sanctuary

at Locri. A violent storm is said to hare punished

his impiety, and compelled him to restore the trea­

sures. (Appian, Samn. iii. 12; Lir. xxix. 18;

Val. Max. i. l.Ext. § 1.)

After the departure of Pyrrhus, the Locrians

seem to have submitted again to Home, aud too-

tin tied so till the Second Punic War, when ti*-y

were among the states that threw off the Koman

alliance and declared in favour of the Carthaginians,

after the battle of Cannae, B.C. 216. (Lir. xxii.

61, xxiii. 30.) They soon after received a Cartha­

ginian force within their walls, though at the saute

time their liberties were guaranteed by a treaty of

alliance on equal terms. (Liv. xxiv. 1.) When the

fortune of the war began to turn against Carthxcf.

Locri was besieged by tlie Koman cotisul Crisptnus,

but without success; and the approach of Haniub*!

compelled him to raise the siege, B.C. 208. (Id.

xxvii. 25, 28.) It was not till B.c 205, that

Scipio, when on the point of sailing for Africa, was

enabled, by the treachery of some of the citizen*, to

surprise one of the forts which cum maud txl the

town; an advantage that soon led to tlie surmxirr

of the other citadel and the city itself. (Id. xxix.

6—8.) Scipio conBded the charge of the city and

the command of the garrison to his legate, <4> Wsv

minius; but that officer conducted himself with sorb

cruelty and rapacity towards the unfortunate Lo­

crians, that they rose in tumult against him, and a

violent sedition took place, which was only apj*a*ed

by the intervention ot Scipio himself. That general,

however, took the part of Pleminius, whom be con­

tinued in his command; and the Locrians were ex-

jAtocd anew to his exactions and cruelties, nil they

at length took courage to appeal to tlie K"cnaa se­

nate. Notwithstanding vehement opposition on lire

part of the friends of Scipio, the senate pronounced

in favour of the Locrians, condemned I'leiumioa.

and restored to tlie Locrians their liberty and the

enjoyment of their own laws. (Liv. xxix. 8, 16—

22; Diod. xxvii. 4; Appian, Annib, 55.) Plrmi-

nius had, on this occasion, followed the example ./

Pyrrhus in plundering the temple of Proserpine:

but the senate caused restitution to be made, and

the impiety to be expiated at the public cost.

(Diod. L c.)

From this time we bear little of Locri. Not­

withstanding the privileged condition conceded to it

by the senate, it seems to have sunk into a Ten-

subordinate position. Poly bins, however, speaks o/ it

as in his day still a considerable town, which waa

bound by treaty to furnish a certain amount of* naval

auxiliaries to tlie Romans. (I'oL x"L 5.) The

Locrians were under particular obligations to that

historian {lb.) ; and at a later period we tind them

enjoying the special patronage of Cicero (C*c <*>

Ltg. ii. 6), but we do not know tbe oricin of their

connection with the great orator. From S:rabos ac­

count it is obvious that Locri still subsisted as a town

in his day, and it is noticed in like manner by Itury

and Ptolemy (Strab. vi p. 259; Plin. iii. &. a. lOt

1'tol. iii. 1. § 10). Its name is not found in the

Itineraries, though they describe this coa*t in cuu.

