tAMISSA. IAPODES. »

Orychoma was the same as the fort Achaia, which

is said to have been the first settlement of the He-

liadae io the bland (Diod. Sic. T. 57; Allien, viii.

p. 360); at an; rate, Acliaia was situated in the

territory of lalvsus, which bore the name Ialysia.

(Comp.' Horn. //. ii. 656; Pind. 01. vii. 106; Herod.

ii- 182; Thucyd. viii. 44 ; Ptol. v. 2. § 34; Steph.

B. «. r.; Scykx, Ptripl. p. 81; Dionys. Perieg. 504;

Or. Met vii. 365; Pomp. Mela, ii. 7.) The site of

ancient lalvsus is still occupied by a village bearing

the name latino, about which a few ancient remains

are found. (Boss, Rcisen auf den Griech. fnseln,

roL iii. p. 98.) [L. S.J

IAM1SSA. [Thamesis]

IAMNA, IAMNO. [Baleahks, p. 374, b.]

IAMNIA ('IaeV4s, LXX; 'lipyta, 'I«iuvffa

Ituraiy, a city of the Philistines, assigned to

the tribe of Judah in the LXX. of Joshua xv. 45

(ripre); but omitted in the Hebrew, which only

mentions it in 2 Citron, xxvi. 6 (Jabneh in the

English version), as one of the cities of the Philis­

tines taken and destroyed by king Uzziah. It is

celebrated by Philo Judaeus as the place where the

first occasion was given to the Jewish revolt under

Caligula, and to his impious attempt to profane the

temple at Jerusalem. His account is as follows: —

In the city of Iamnia, one of the most populous of

Judaea, a small Gentile population had established

itself among the more numerous Jews, to whom they

occasioned no little annoyance by the wanton vio­

lation of their cherished customs. An unprincipled

government officer, named Capito, who had been

sent to Palestine to collect the tribute, anxious to

pro-occupy the emperor with accusations against the

Jews before their well-grounded complaints of his

boundless extortion could reach the capital, ordered

an altar of mud to be raised in the town for the dei­

fication of the emperor. The Jews, as be had antici­

pated, indignant at the profanation of the Holy Land,

assembled in a body, and demolished the altar. On

bearing this, the emperor, incensed already at what

bad lately occurred in Egypt, resolved to resent this

insult by the erection of an equestrian statue of

himself in the Holy of Holies. (Philo, de Legal, ad

Cairnn, Op. vol. ii. p. 573.) With respect to its site,

it is assigned by Josephus to that part of the tribe

bf Juilah occupied by the children of Dan (Ant. v. 1.

§ 22); and he reckons it as an inland city. (Ant.

xhr. 4. § 4, B. J. L 7. § 7.) Thus, likewise, in

the 1st book of Maccabees (x. 69, 71), it is spoken

of as situated in the plain country ; but the author

of the 2nd book speaks of the harbour and fleet

of the Iamnites, which were fired by Judas Mac-

eabaeus; when the light of the conflagration was

seen at Jerusalem, 240 stadia distant. The appa­

rent discrepancy may, however, be reconciled by the

notices of the classical geographers, who make fre­

quent mention of this town. Thus Pliny expressly

says, " Iamnes duae: altera intus," and places them

between Azotus and Joppa (v. 12); and Ptolemy,

having mentioned 'laprrrrwv, "the port of the Iam­

nites," as a maritime town between Joppa and

Azotus, afterwards enumerates Iamnia among the

cities of Judaea. From all which it is evident that

Iamnia had its Majuma, or naval arsenal, as Gaza,

Azotus, and Ascalon also had. (Le Quien, Orient

Cirut. voL iii. col. 587, and 622.) The Itinerary

of Antoninus places it 36 M. P. from Gaza, and

11 M. P. from Diospolis (or Lydda); and Eusebius

(Onotn. t. r. lifwtta) places it between Diospolis

and Azotus. It* site is still marked by ruins which

retain the ancient name Yebna, situated on a small

eminence on the west side of Wady Rubin, an hour

distant from the sea. (Irby and Mangles, Travels,

p. 182.) "The ruins of a Human bridge," which

they noticed, spanning the Nalir-el-Rubm between

Yebna and the sea, was doubtless built for the pur­

pose of facilitating traffic between the town and its

sea-port. [G. W.]

IAMPHORINA, the capital of the Maedi, in Ma­

cedonia, which was taken n. c. 211 by Philip, son of

Demetrius. (Liv. xxvi. 25.) It is prcbably repre­

sented by Vranid or Icorina, in the upper valley of

the Afordva. (Leake, Nortltern Greece, vol. iii. p.

473.) [E. B. J.]

IANGACAUCA'NI [Mauhetania.]

JANUA'RIA ('layovapia &Koa),a promontory on

the coast of Ciiicia, near Serrepolis, between Mallus

and Acgaea. (Stadiusm. §§ 149, 150.) It is now

called Karadaah. [L. S.]

1 AT IS ('Iawff), a small stream which formed the

boundary between Megaris and the territory of Elcu-

sis. [Attica, p. 323, a.]

IA'PODES, IA'PYDES ('IdiroJfj, Strab. iii.

p. 207, vii. p. 313; 'IdvuJ«j, Ptol. ii. 16. §8;

Liv. xliii. 5; Virg. Georg. iii. 475; Tibull. iv. 1.

108), an lllyrian people to the N. of Dalmatia, and

E. of Libumia, who occupied Iapydia (Plin. iii. 19),

or the present military frontier of Croatia, com­

prised between the rivers Kulpa and Korana to the

N. and !■]., and the Yekbich range to the S.

In the interior, their territory was spread along

Moxs Albius ( Velika), which forms the extremity

of the great Alpine chain, and rises to a great ele­

vation; on the other side of the mountain they

reached towards the Danube, and the confines of

Pannonia. They followed the custom of the wild

Thraciun tribes in tattooing themselves, and were

armed in the Keltic fashion, living in their poor

country (like the Morlacchi of the present day)

chiefly on zea and millet. (Strab. vii. p. 315.)

In ii. c. 129, the consul C. Sempronius Tuditanus

carried on war against this people, at first unsuc­

cessfully, but afterwards gained a victory over them,

chiefly by the military skill of his legate, D. Junius

Brutus, for which he was allowed to celebrate a

triumph at Koine (Appian, Ii. C. i. 19, lllyr. 10;

Liv. Epit. lix.; fasti Capit.) They had a " focdus"

with Koine (Cic. pro Bulb. 14), but were in B.C.

34 finally subdued by Octavianus, alter an obstinate

defence, in which Metulum, their principal town

was taken (Strab. 1. c.; Appian, lllyr. I. «.).

Mktulcm (Mf ToOAor), their capital, was situated

on the river Colapis (Kulpa) to the N., on the

frontier of Pannonia (Appian, /. c ), and has been

identified with Mottling or Mctlika on the Kulpa.

The Antonine Itinerary has the following places on

the road from Senia (Zeugg) to Siscia (Sissek) :—

Avkndone (comp. I'eut. Tab.; Abendo, Geog.

Rav.; Aiitvitdrai, Appian, Illyr. I. c.; Outvios,

Strab. iv. p. 207, vii. p. 314.); Akitium (Arypium,

reut. Tab.; Parupium, Geog. Rav.; 'Apoinriroi,

App. Illyr. 16., perhaps the same as the 'ApovKnia

of Ptolemy, ii. 16. § 9), now Ottochatz. At ISiuicm,

which should be read Bivium (Wesseling, adloc.),

the road divided, taking a direction towards Panno­

nia, which the Itinerary follows, and also towards

Dalmatia, which is given in the Peutinger Table.

Neigebaur (Die Sudtlaven, pp. 224—235) has

identified from a local antiquary the following sites

of the Table:

Epidotium (UselU); Afcus (Chauke); Au-

n 2

