TRAUSI. 1223 TliEBIA.

• Hit. ii. 8; Entrop. iii. 9; Flor. ii. 6. § 13; Onw.

t. 11; V<L Max. L 6. § 6 ; 6H. Iul. i. 49, v. 1,

if.; Orid, Fa*, vi. 770; Strab. v. p. 226.)

The lake U now commonly known as the /."-/"

, l'ngia, though frequently called on maps and

> fuide-books the Lago Trasimcno. [E. II. B.]

TliAl'SI (T/muwoI, Herod. T. 3, 4; Thrausi,

i>. ixxriii. 41), a Thracian people, who appear, in

iter times at least, to have occupied the SK. off-

:uot» of Mount Kbodope, to the W. of the Hebrus,

i<l about Tempyra. Herodotus tells us that the

nui entertained peculiar notions respecting human

K which were manifested in appropriate customs,

ben a child was bom, his kinsfolk, sitting around

in, bewailed hia lot in baring to encounter the

ij««s of mortal existence; whereas when any one

*d, they buried him with mirth and rejoicing, de-  
srisg him to hare been freed from great evils, and

'be now in perfect bliss.*

At to tin Thrausi spoken of by Liry, see I mi -

nLA.

Said** and Hesychiu* («. ».) mention a Scythian

it* called the Trauai, who, according to Steph. B.

1. r), wen the same people as the Agathyrsi. The

t-iumed author speak* of a Celtic race also, bear-

£ this appellation. Ou this slight foundation the

range theory has been built that the Thracian

-iu>i were the original stock of the Celts; and  
'ear of supporting this notion, its propounders ar-

Iruily read Tpovo-of instead of rtpaixroi in Strabo,

. p. 187, where Strabo expressly says that he was

laMe to state what was the original abode of the

nasi: had he been writing about the Thracian

rami we may safely assume that no such ignorance

*itl hare been acknowledged. (Of. Ukert, U. 2.  
S30.) [J. R.]

11UVUS (Tooioi, Herod, vii. 109), a small rirer

the & of Thrace, which falls into the a.uitj

imtt, a shallow aestuary penetrating far into the

»i. NK of Abdera. The Trarus is the principal

she for the drainage of that part of southern

trace which is included between the Nestns and

I Hebrus. [J. K.]

TKEBA or TKE'BIA. 1. (Elk. Trebiaa, litis:

;. a municipal town of Umbria, situated at the

tstemfeot of the Apennines, between Fulgiuinm and

> sources of the Clitumnua, about 4 miles from the

fer. It is mentioned by Pliny among the muni-

ad cities of Umbria, and its name is found in an

<r,ptHjo among the "xv l'opoji L'mbriae:" in

111 these authorities the name of the people is

ittra Trehiatea. The Jerusalem Itinerary, which

ices it on the Via Flaminia, 4 miles from Sacraria

■ the sources of the Clitumnus) and 5 from Ful-

unm, write* the Dame Treris, thus approximating

atly to the modem name of Trevi. The modem

< n is still a considerable place standing on a hill

ich rise* abruptly from the valley of the Clitum-

> (Plin. iii. 14.'*. 19; I tin. }Iier. p. 613; Orell.

- »8).

2. (Toirta, l't ■: .; Elk. Trebanus: 7reW), a city

Lalium, in the upper ralley of the Anio, about

■ ■•» from the sources of that rirer and 10 above

fourtr. It is mentioned both by Pliny and Fto-

i». as well as by Frontinus, who calls it Treba

•fusto (Plin. iii. 6. s. 9; Ptol. iii. 1. § 62; Fron-

* Mela has followed Herodotus very closely in the  
■iwing passage (ii. 2): "Lugentur apud quosdam

-rprria, nalique detientnr: tuners contra fosta sunt,  
irlati aaa

tin. dt Aquatd. 93); and in an inscription, which

proves it to hare been a town of municipal rank

under the Koman Empire. (Orell. Inter. 4101.)

But it* name is not mentioned in history, and it

was apparently never a place of importance, for

which its secluded position is alone sufficient to ac­

count. The ancient name and site are retained by

the modern Tillage of TVert, a poor place, surrounded

on all sides by lofty mountains. [E. H. B.]

TKE'BIA (A Tpffks: Trtibia), a considerable

river of Gallia Cispadana, falling into the Padus

about 2 miles W. of Placentia, From its proximity

to the latter city Pliny designates it as " Trebiaa

Placentinus." (Plin. iii. 16. s. 20; Strab. r. p. 217.)

It has its sources in the Ligurian Apennines near

Monttbruno, and has a courte of above 50 miles

from thence to the Po. Throughout the greater

part of this course it flows through a mountain

ralley, passing under the walls of Bobbiu (celebrated

in the middle ages for its convent, from which some

of the most valuable MSS. of ancient authors have

been derived), and does not emerge from the hills

which form the underfalls of the Apennines till

within about 12 miles of its month. For the re­

mainder of its course it flows through the fertile plain

of the Padus, and crosses the Via Aemilia about 3

miles W. of Placentia. It appears probable that the

Treble was fixed by Augustus as the western limit

of the Eighth Region, and continued from that period

to be regarded as the limit of Gallia Cispadana to­

wards Liguria. This is not distinctly stated, hut

may probably be inferred from the circumstance that

Placentia waa situated in the Eighth Region, while

Iris (Vogkera), the next town to the W., was

certainly in Liguria. (Plin. iii. 5. s. 7, 15. s. 20.)

Like most of the rirers which flow from the

Apennines, the Trebia rariea rery inach according to

the season: in summer it is but a scanty stream,

winding through a broad bed of stones, but in winter

and after beary rains it becomes a formidable torrent.

The chief celebrity of the Trebia is derired from tiro

battle which was fought on its banks in B.C. 2IS

between Hannibal and the Roman consul Semprouius,

and which was the first of the decisire rictories ob­

tained by the Carthaginian general. Unfortunately

the movements which preceded and led to tins

battle, and the exact site on which it occurred, ant

rery difficult to determine. Scipio after bis defeat

on the Ticinus had recrossed the Padus and with­

drawn to Placentia, where the presence of a Roman

colony afforded him a secure stronghold. Hannibal

on the other hand effected his passage of the Padua

higlier up, abore its junction with the Ticinus, and

then adranced along the right bank of the rirer, till

he approached Placentia, and established his camp

within 6 miles of that of Scipio. (Pol. iii. 66.)

The defection of the Boian Gauls baring soon after

giren the alarm to Scipio, he broke up his camp and

withdrew "to the hills that bordered the rirer

Trebia." (/*. 67.) In this morement, it is clear,

from what we are told immediately afterwards that,

he croutd the river Trebia (lb. 68); his former

camp therefore, though in the neighbourhood of

Placentia, most hare been on the VY. side of the

Trebia. In this new position, which was one of

considerable natural strength (lb. 67), Scipio awaited

the arrival of Sempronius with his army, who was

adrancing from Ariminum, and succeeded in effecting

a junction with his colleague, without opposition

from Hannibal, (lb. 68.) The attention of the

Carthaginian general had been apparently drawn off

4 1 4

