18 JERUSALEM. JKRUSALEM.

Jehoshaphat is occupied by a high rocky ridge or

swell of land, which attains its highest elevation a

little without the north-west angle of the present

town. The city, then, occupied the termination of

this broad swell of land, Wing isolated, except on the

north, by the two great valleys already described,

towards which the ground declined rapidly from all

part* of the city. This rocky promontory is, how-

erer, broken by one or two subordinate valleys, and

the declivity is not uniform.

(3) There is, for example, another valley, very

inferior in magnitude to those which encircle the

city, but of great importance in a topographical view,

as being the main geographical feature mentioned

by Josephus in his description of the city. This

valley of the Tyropoeon (cheese -makers) meets the

Valley of Ilinnom at the Tool of Siloam, very near

its junction with the Valley of Jehoshaphat, and ran

be distinctly traced through the city, along the west

side of the Temple enclosure, to the Damascus gate,

where it opens into a small plain. The level of this

Tslley, running as it does through the midst of a

city that has undergone such constant vicissitudes

and such repeated destruction, has of course been

greatly raised by the desolations of so many gene­

rations, but is so marked a feature in modem as in

former times, that it is singular it was not at

once recognised in the attempt to re-distribute the

ancient Jerusalem from the descriptions of Josephus.

It would be out of place to enter into the arguments

for this and other identifications in the topography

ef ancient Jerusalem; the conclusions only can lie

stated, and the various hypotheses must be sought

in the works referred to at the end of the article.

Hills. — Ancient Jerusalem, according to Jo­

sephus, occupied M two eminences, which fronted each

other, and were divided by an intervening ravine, at

the brink of which the closely-built houses termi­

nated," This ravine is the Tyropoeon, already re­

ferred to, and this division of the city, which the

historian observes from the earliest period, is of the

utmost importance in the topography of Jerusalem.

The two hills and the intermediate valley are more

minutely described as follows: —

(1) The Upper City.—" Of these eminences, that

which had upon it the Upper City was by much the

loftier, and in its length the idraitrr. This emi­

nence, then, for its strength, used to be called the

stronghold by king David,.... but by us it was called

the Upper Agora.

(2) The IsOtcer City.—"Theothereminence, which

was called A era, and which supported the Lower

City, was in shape gibbous (oV^<ki>0tos).

(3) The Temple Mtmnt.—* Opposite to this latter

was a third eminence, which was naturally lower

than Acra, and was ones separated from it by another

broad ravine: but afterwards, in the times when the

Asmonaeans reigned, they filled up the ravine,

wishing to join the city to the Temple; and having

1 er«lied the summit of Acra, they made it lower, so

that in this quarter also the Temple might be seen

rising above other objects.

44 But ths ravine called the Tyropoeon (cheese-

makers), which wo mentioned as dividing the emi­

nences of the L'jiper City and the Lower, reaches to

Siliom; for so w« call the nynn», both sweet and

abundant. But on their outer sides the two emi­

nences of the city were hemmed in within deep

ravines, and, by reason of the preei|iices on either

aide, tliert waa no approach to them from any

quarter." (B. JwL v. 4, 3.)

This, then, was the disposition of the ancient citr,

on which a few remarks must be made befiwe we

proceed to the new city. The two-fold division,

which, as has been said, is recognised by Josephs*

from the first, is implied also in the sacred narrative,

not only in the account of its capture by the Israelite*,

and subsequently by David, but in all such passages

ns mention the city of David or Mount Sion aa dis­

tinct from Salem and Jerusalem. (Coinp, Josh. it.

63; Judges, i. 8, 21; 2 Sam. t. 6—9; Psalms,

lxxvi. 2, &c.) The account given by Josephus oil"

tiie taking of the city is this: that '* the Israelites,

having besieged it, after a time took the I-owex

City, but the Upper City was hard to be taken

by reason of the Mrcngth of its walls, and the nature

of its positiun" (Ant. v. 2. § 2); and, subse­

quently, that "David laid siege to Jerusalem, and

took the Lower City by assault, while the citadel

still held out" (vii. 3. § 1). Having at length got

possession of the Upper City also, " he encircled the

two within one wall, so as to form one body1* (§ 2).

This could only be effected by taking in the inter­

jacent valley, which is apparently the part called

Millo.

(4) But wlwn in process of time the city over­

flowed its old boundaries, the hill Bezetlia, or Sew

City, was added to the ancient hills, as is thua

described by Josephus:—"The city, being over-

abundsnt in population, began gradually to creep

beyond its old walls, and the people joining to the

city the region which lay to the north of the temple

and close to the hill (of Acra), advanced consider­

ably, so that even a fourth eminence was surrounded

with habitations, viz. that which is called Uezetha,

situated opposite to the Antonia, and divided from it

by a deep ditch; for the ground had been cut through

on purpose, that the foundations of the Antonia

might not, by joining the eminence, be easy of ap­

proach, and of inferior height."

The Antonia, it is necessary here to add, in anti­

cipation of a more detailed description, was a castle

situated at the north-western angle of the outer

enclosure of the Temple, occupying a precipitous

rock 50 cubits high.

It is an interesting fact, and a convenient one to

facilitate a description of the city, thst the several

parts of thi* ancient city are precisely coincident with

the distinct quarters of modern Jerusalem: for that,

1st, the Armenian and Jewish quarters, with the

remainder of Mount Sion, now excluded from tbw

walls, composed the Upper City; 2dly, the Ma-

hommedan quarter corresponds exactly with the

Lower City; Sdly, that the Haram-ea-Sherif, or

Noble Sanctuary, of the Moslems, occupies the Temple

Mount; and 4thty, that the llaret (quarter) Bab-el-

Hitta is the declivity of the hill Beictha, which

attains its greatest elevation to the north of the

modern city wall, but was entirely included within

the wall of Agripp-i, together with a considerable

space to the north and west of the Lower City, in­

cluding all the Christian quarter.

The several parts of the ancient city were enclosed

by distinct walb, of which J.wephu* eivcs a minute

description, which must be noticed in detail, as fur*

lushing the fullest account we have of the city as it

existed during theKoman period; a description which,

as far as it relates to the Old city, will serve for the

elucidation of the ante-Bahylmtsh rn|utal, — as it is

clear, from the iircount of the rebuilding of the walls

by Kehemiah (iii., vi.). that the new fortifications

followed the course of the ancient enceinte.

