rnAETOBIA AUGUSTA. TRASIACA. 667

i agsiust Camicos in Sicily, in order to

« fall of Minos (Herod, vii. 170). It

I by tilt inhabitants of Hierspvtna.

l x. p. 479.) Agathocles, the Babylonian,

■ tbat the Praesii were accustomed to sacrifice

i Wfcn murine. (Athen. ix. p. 376.) The

: frm .■ ire still called Praetut. (Pashlev,

I wl i. p. 2M), «eq.; Hock, A'reta, vol. i. p.

CIlUt OK rlUFSL'S <>U PRIASSIS.

pinu-RiA

AUGUSTA. [Ai'oun-A Prak-

UBIVil. There were places of this nune

Mb, H"fiftir. and in other countries which

■tons wcapiej. A Praetoriutn is the residence

Ifrartor sod the seat of the supreme court.

Bpai was also used to signify a magnificent

Mantling. The Table marks a l'raetorium

HaVst a r>md from Aueustoritum (Limoges).

Mt Ptsetunam the road divides, one branch

MlAlgaatcoeiDetum {Clermont Ftrrand in

awaiyai) and the other to Avaricum (Bourges).

>»» possible to fix the site of this Praeto-

[G. L.]

sUfrOBH'lf. 1. A town in the territory of

IsMwt, in the NK. of Hispania Tarraconensis,

■ t»» road from Tarracu, in Gaul, to Barcino.

Mat p. 39g.) Usually identified with La

■aW* there are Mill considerable Roman re-

i (Marcs. Hup. ii. 20.)

M'najla, J'tol. ii. 3. § 17), a place in the most

■W bntancua itaiiana, in the territory of the

■■asm there was a separate road from the

■Utolboracum (Itm. AnL pp. 464, 466.)

Waasl by Camden ( p. 8 71) to be Becerhy in

H*> byatbers it baa been variously identified

BHsyfcat, Utbbrrtlotc, Hornsea, Kingston, j

M^aenasjA. S une writers distinguish the Pe-

MlWany Coin the l'nsetorium of the Itine-

pl Gale (Am. p. 24) identifies the former

|M> AM!,, on the /Jerntnt. [T.H.D.]

MlOKlLM, Al) {TlpcuTuotov), a place in

VManu. south of the Savos, on the road

*aa to Sunuam. ( Tab. Ptuting.; I'tol. ii.  
Wb U was probably a pbux where a court

■B •»» held for the inhabitants of the sur-

^awtnit, or it contained an imperial palace

i put up when travelling; in that

[L. S.]

IUM AGBIITI NAE. This Prae-

> in the Table, and is distinguished

tatKC of a Uiyc building. I) Anvilk

it it nay have taken its name from

I daagbter of Ueniuuiicus and the

■. who gave hex name to the. Colonia

Culnynr). Tue l'raetorium is placed

SB tWtaroruui {Leiden) at the dis-

DAarilk ouucludes tliat it is lioom-

antiquities have been found. (Ukert, Gallien, p.

533.) [G. L.]

PRAETO'RIUM I.ATOVICO'RUM, a place in

Upper Pannonia, on the site now ocenpied by AYu-

stadte, on the river Clurk. (It. Ant. p. 259; Tab.

Peuting.. called simply Praetorium.) [L. S.]

PBAETU'TU (n^aiTouTTioi, l'tol: Eth. Xlpat-

TtTTiavis, Pol.j Praetutiauug), a tribe of Central

Italy, who occupied a district of Picenum, bounded

by the river Vomanus on the S. and apparently by

the stream called by Pliny the Albula on the N.

This last cannot be identified with certainty, and the

text of Pliny is probably corrupt as well as confused.

He appeal's to place the Albula N. of the Trucntus;

but it is certain that the Praetutii did not extend

us far to the N. as the latter river, and it is probable

that the stream now called the Salinello was their

northern limit. We have no account of the origin

of the Praetutii, or their relation to the Picentes,

from whom they seem to have been regarded as to

some extent a distinct people, though more frequently

iucluded under the one general appellation. The

"Ager Praetutianus" is mentioned by Livy and Po-

lybius, as well as by Pliny, as a well-known district,

and Ptolemy even distinguishes it altogether from

Picenum, in which, however, it was certainly gene­

rally comprised. (Pol. iii. 88; Liv. xxii. 9, xxvii.

43; Pliu. iii. 13. s. 18; PtoL iii. 1. § 58.) But

the name seems to have continued in general use,

and became corrupted in the middle ages into Pru-

tium and Aprutium, from whence tho modern name

of Abmzo (now applied to all the northernmost pro­

vinces of the kingdom of Naples) is generally thought

to be derived. (Blondi Flavii, Italia Illustrata,

p. 394.) The chief city of the Praetutii was Inter-

atnna, called for distinction's sake Praetutiana, which

under the name of Teramo is still the chief town

of one of the provinces of the Abruzzi Ptolemy

also assigns to thein the town of Beregra. (Ptol.

/. c.) Pliny mentions the "Ager Palmensis" in

close connection with the Praetutii ("Ager Prae­

tutianus Palmensisque," Plin. I.e.); but this appears

to have been only a small district, which was cele­

brated, as was the Praetutiun region generally, for

the excellence of its wines. (Plin. xiv. 6. 8. 8;

Dioscor. v. 19; Sil. Hal. xv. 568.) [E. H. B. j

PRAS (ityas: Eth. Xlpdrrts), a town of Phthiotia

in Thessaly, a little S. of Phar.-alus. For its posi­

tion see Narthaciim. (Xen. Hell iv. 3. § 9,

Ages. 2. § 5; Steph. B. : r.)

PRASIACA (npoffioK^, Ptol. vii. 1. § 53), a

very extensive and rich district in tho centre of

lliiulottan, along the banks of the Ganges and the

Sons, whose chief town was the celebrated Palibo-

thra. The name of its inhabitants, which is written

with slight differences in different author*, is most

correctly given as Prasii by Strnbo (xv. p. 702, 703),

and by Pliny (vi. 19. s. 22), who states that their

king supported daily no less than 150,000 foot,

30,000 horse, and 9000 elephants. Diodonis calls

them Praesii (xvii. 93), as does also Plutarch.

(Alex. 62.) In Curtius again they occur under

the tonu of Pharrasii (ix. 2. § 3). It was to thu

king of the Prasii, Sandrocottus (Chaiulragvpta),

that the famous mission of Mcgasthenes by Seleucua

took place. (Plin. £ c; Curt. ix. 2; Appian, Syr.

55; Plul. Alex. 62; Justin, xv. 4.) All authors

concur in stating that this was one of the largest of

the Indian empires, and extended through the richest

part of India, from the Gauges to the Punjab. There

can be no doubt that Prasii is a Graecised f

*d form for

