BOHA. 801 ROMA.

trxtiaa the bases of these columns were discovered

artiy in their original situation. Bnt it is doubtful

• :.'titr the fragments of columns of gray granite

vm ms there belonged to the interior of the basi-

ra; it is more probable that it had columns of

*t/lo tmtico and paonezzato, remains of which have  
■ra farad (Nibby, For. Trajano, p. 353). The

paved with slabs of the same marbles. It

from the authority of two passages in

to have had a bronze roof (v. 12, x. 5).

- tie aide which faced the forum were three mag-  
a large one in the middle and two

aide, decorated with columns, as may

bounded on its two sides by porticoes

e of the ba-

space

with double columns. In the NW. side

BASIMCA I'U'IA.

- the XW. aide of the basilica stood, and still  
•6a, lk*CoumopTRUAIt,th< finest monument

m kiad in the world. This column was intended

mm mm two purposes: to serve as a sepulchre for

amy and to indicate by its height the depth of

excavated in order to make room for the forum

ili buildings. The latter object is expressed by

^arriptian, which runs as follows :—

• datt's . popvlv&qve . homanvs .

■p. caesaki . divi . nervae . f. nervae

vbaianu . avo. germ, hacico . pontif.

uxw . tub. pot. xvii. imp. vi. cos. vi. p. p.

( . uccuiluidva . qvantae . altitvmnis

i : . locvb . tant[is . operi]bvs . sit

[egestvs.

- Vi. t./>i'r. 13; Dion Cass. Ixviii. 16). The  
i-S of the column, including the pedestal, is 127 \

a»a fact. The diameter at the base is between

ad 13 feet, and rather more than a foot less at

am. The shaft consists of 19 cylindrical pieces

sese Barbie, in which steps are cut for ascending

On the top was a statue of Trajan,

by that of St. Peter, erected by Pope

V. When the tomb beneath was opened by the

povtixf. in 1585, it was discovered to be empty.

-4 the culnmn runs a spiral band of admirable  
«, representing the wars of Trajan against De­

al aad containing no fewer than 2500 human

e*. The height of the reliefs at the bottom is

>" nearly double that size at the

dang »way with the natural effect of

the figures to the spectator

throughout. The best descriptions

a mnrbrent colamn will be found in Klibretti.

Rome, 1690, with plates by

■aatali; Piranesi, Trofto, o tin mag-

Coeiide. ifc., with large folio drawings;

Truj •■ ' daignata.

>d in an open space of no great

feet kog and 56 brood. This

COLUMN OF TRAJAN.

silica,* on either side of the column, were two libra­

ries, the Bibliotheca (jraeca ami Latina, as

indicated by Sidonius:—

"Cum meis poni statuam perennem

Narva Trajanus titulis vidcret

Inter auctores utriugque fixam

Bibliothecae."—(ix. Epigr. 16.)

* It is remarkable, however, that the library is  
called by A. Gellius, "Bibliotheca tcmpli Trajani"

(xi. 17).

3 F

