SAM0X1UM. 897 SAMOS.

mttsA by Diodanu as the scene of the decisive

•■irtetr in b. c. 314 (Di<d. xix. 76); and several

iaoa of which the names are found only in Virgil and

- j j# Irahcus,—Mucbae, Rufrak, Batulum, and  
"> uutXA (Virg. A en. vii. 739; Sil. Ital. viii. 564).

r-"-ch seem to have been situated on the borders of

Vnpania, so that it is doubtful to which country

"<-• affv to be assigned. The minor towns of the

! rpiiu faare been already discussed in that article;

'.cum, or ranoa,aname found in Strabo (v. p. 250)

i thai of a place still existing in his time, is probably

*njpt. but we are wholly at a loss what to substitute,  
i tie other hand, inscriptions attest the existence

<i*r the Roman Empire of a town called Jnvavium,

J^riDum, of municipal rank, which is not men-

by any of the geographers, but is probably

* one meant by the Liber Coloniarum, which  
ricas the ** lobanus ager n among the "civitates

awn." (Ub. Col. p. 260.) It was probably

'u:«d in the neighbourhood of Sta Maria di

**t^», a few miles X. of the Sagrus, and on the  
rr frontiers of the Marrucini. (Mommsen, Inscr.

. X. p. 271.) The existence of a town named

rtroara is Terr doubtful [Tifkrnus]; and that of

1:7 <j( the name of Samnium, though adopted by

say local writers (Rnmam-lli, vol. ii. p. 490), cer-

*tj rata on no adequate authority.

Niaaiom was traversed in ancient times by several

m 1/ highway. One of these, following nearly

• ume line with the modern road from Xaples to

■oil. proceeded up the valley of the Vulturous

n V'esmfrum to Aeaernia, thence crossed the

mtaifl ridge to Autidena in the valley of the

rrn, and fnun thence again over another moun-

t i**4 to Sulrao in the land of the Peligni.

*L*r branch ted from Aesernia to Bovianum,and  
1 tiencv to Kquus Tnticus, where it joined the

1 Atpta or Trajafia. A third followed the valley

tot Vultumua from Aesemia to Allifae, and

m by Telesia to Beneventum. There seems

■ -i have bem a cross line from the latter place

Wpxram to BovUnam. (Itin. Ant. p. 102; Tab.

< ) Bat tiiese different tines are very confusedly

I dawn in the Tabula, and the distances given

of.ea either corrupt or erroneous. The course

'jm Vol Appia, and its branch called the Via

tiU, through the land of the Hirpiui, has been

*ir noticed in that article. [See also Via  
rta.] [E. H. B ]

4M«>*\iriC SAMMOWtUM, SALMO'NIUM,

LaKTNE FROM. (2cvM*rwv, 2a*.n6vtov, Strab.

l 106, x. pp. 474. 475, 478, 489; SaAua-cij.

r. xxni. 7; cotnp. Ptol. iii. 15. § 5; Pomp.

&.UL 7. § 12; Plin. iv. 20. s. 21; Stadiasm.

I*: Etk. XssA>«*nof, SoA/ium. A poll. Kind.

1693; Diuny*. Per. 110; Intcrip. up. BocUt,

jmt vwi. u. p. 409), the E. promontory of Crete,

«bvh the *>e»Jnen of the Alexandrian vessel

r.< cxaireyed 1'avul to Rome, thinking they could

> * their vurjtge under the lee of the island, ran

a> (Jets, L c.y Much difference of opinion has

r.i'.ertained relative to the identification of (his

-rmiai foreland, the ponition of which Mould  
1 \'j be int- introvertibly ascertained by the ex-

of the nrtcideni name C.Salomon. (Comp.

t. ATrefcz, roa. L p- 427.) But though the

■ u certainly in favour of this site, the state-

>i» <d the ancient* as to its position, and of the

■ Mitt* or rucka which surround it, determine

iiarffwlv that it must be C. S. Sidero. It is

'u at by the recent Admiralty survey it is not

iot_ u.

quite so far to the E. as C. Salomon (the difference

is, however, only a few seconds of longitude); but

by its extreme extension from the mainland it would

be considered as the principal promontory at this

end of the island, and known as the "E. fore­

land." (Comp. Museum of Clou. Antiquities, vol. ii.

p. 302.) TE. B.J.]

SAMOS or SAMUS (2<W: F.th. and Adj. 2o-

/uos, Samius, Hapatos,2uma*&r in Steph.: 2auiun-ris

in the language of the modern Greeks, who call the

island Samo, 2o/t»: the Turks call it Susam Adassi)t

a large island in that part of the Aegaean which is

called the I can an sea, and the most important of

the Sporadea next after Rhodes. The word denotes

a height, especially by the sea-shore. (See Const.

Porphyrog. de Them. 16. p. 41, ed. Bonn.) Hence

Samotiikacia, or the Th racial) Samos, which is

said by Pausanias (vii. 4. § 3) to have been colonised

and named by certain fugitives from the Icarian

Samos,—and Same, one of the names of Ccphalonia,

which is inversely connected with it by one of

Strata's conjectures (x. p. 457). How applicable

the idea of elevation is to the island before us may

be seen in the narratives and views given by I)r.

Clarke {Travels, vol. ii. p. 192, vol. iii. p. 366), who

uses the strongest language in describing the conspi­

cuous height of Samos above the surrounding islands.

The following earlier names of Samos are men­

tioned by Pliny (v. 37) and other writers,- Par-

thenia, Anthemus, Melamphylus, Dryusa and Cy-

parissia. Some of these have evidently arisen from

the physical characteristics of the island. Samos

was, and is, well-wooded. It is intersected from E.

to W. by a chain of mountains, which is in fact a

continuation of the range of My tale, being separated

from it only by the narrow channel, hardly a mile

in breadth, which the Turks call the Little Boghat.

Here was fought the decisive victory against the

Persians, b. c. 479. The Great Boghaz, which is

nearly 10 miles in breadth, separates the other ex­

tremity of Samos from the comparatively low isiand

of Icakia. The length of Samos, from E. to W., is

about 25 miles. Its breadth is very variable. Strabo

reckons the circuit at 600 stadia, Pliny at 87 miles,

though he says that Uidorus makes it 100. These

d.{Terences may be readily accounted for by omitting

or including Port Vathy, which is a wild-looking

bay, though a very serviceable harbour, on the north.

Here the modern capital is situated: but in ancient

times the bay of Vuthy seems to have be»n com­

paratively deserted—perhaps, as Tournefort suggests,

because it was peculiarly exposed to pirates, who

infested the straits and bays of an island which lay

in the route of commerce between the h**porua and

Egypt. What Tournefort tells us of his travels

through Samos gives us the idea of a very rugged,

though picturesque and productive, island. (lWihly

the Palinurus and Panomius of Samos. memioned by

Livy, xxxvii. 11, may have been in the bay of Vuthy )

The highest point, Mount Kerkis, the ancient

Cercetcus (Strab. x. p. 488), which is nearly always

covered with snow, and reaches the height of

4725 English feet, is towards the west. A ridge,

which branches off in a south-easterly direction from

the main range, and ends in the promontory of

Poseidium, opposite Mycale, was called Ampelus,

which name seems also to have been given to the v. holo

mountain-system (Strab. xiv. p. 637) The western­

most extremity of the island, opposite Icaria was an­

ciently called Cantharium. Here the cliffs are very

bare and lofty. A landslip, which baa taken place m

3 11

