746 ROMA. KOMA.

of the Romans, ami to the use which they made of

the ancient monuments to serve their own selfish

and mercenary purposes. The factions of the

Guelphs and Gbibelinea, of the Colonna ami Ursini,

which began in tin* tenth century and Listed several

hundred years, must have heen very destructive to

*]ie city. In these sanguinary quarrels tiie ancient  
„ .ifices were converted into castles; and the mul­

titude of the latter may be estimated from the fact

that the senator Brancaleone during bis government

(1252 —1258) caused 140 towers, or fortresses, the

strongholds uf the nobility, to be demolished in Rune

and its neighbourhood; yet subsequently, under

Martin V'., we still hear of forty-four existing in one

quarter of the city alone. (Matthew 1'aris, Hist. Moj.

p. 741, seq.) Some of these were erected on the

most celebrated buildings, as the triumphal monu­

ments of Caesar, Titus, and the Antoninea. (Mont-

faucn, D'tar. Ital. p. 186; Anonymus, ib. p. 285.)

lint still more destructive were the ravage.* com­

mitted on the ancient buildings during times of

peace. The beautiful sculptures and architectural

members, which could no longer be imitated, were

seized upon and appropriated to the adornment of

new structures. We have seen that this barbarous

kind of spoliation was exercised as early as the reign

of Constantino, who applied the sculptures of some

monument of Trajan's to adorn his own triumphal

arch. In after ages Charlemagne carried off the

columns of Rome to decorate his palace at Aix-la-

Chapelle (Sigebert, Ckron. in Bouquet, Hisiorimu

(h France, v. p. 378); and several centuries later

Petrarch laments that his friend and patron, Robert,

king of Sicily, was following the same pernicious

example. ("Itaque nunc, lieu dolor! hen scelus iu-

dignnm ! de reatria marmoreia columnta, de Unuoibua

templorutn (ad quae nnper ex orbe toto coocuraui

devotiaaimua fiebat), de imaginibna Bepulcrorum sub

quibus patrum reatrornm venerabilu cinis crat, ut

reliquaa bileam, desidiosa Napolia adomatur," Petrar.

Opp. p. 530, tan.) It would be endless to recount

the depredations committed by the popes and nobles

in order to build their churches and palaces. The

abbe Bartbe*lemi (Mem. de FA cad. dee Inter, xx v i j i.

p. 5S5) mentions that he had wen at Koine a manu­

script letter relating to a treaty between the chiefs

of the factions which desolated Rome in the 14th

century, in which, among other articles, it is agreed

that the Colosseum shall be common to all parties,

who shall be at liberty to take stones from it. (De

Sa-ie; Vie de Petrarque, i. 328, note.) Sixtus V.

employed the stones of the Septisooium in building

St. Peter's. (Greg. Leti, Vita aV Sitto V. iii. p. 50.)

The nephews of Paul III. were the principal de­

stroyers of the Colosseum, in order to build the

Farnese palace (Huratori, Ann. oT Italia, xiv. p.

371); and a similar reproach was proverbially ap­

plied to those of Urban VIII. (" Quod non fecerunt

Barbari, fecere Barberini," Gibbon, viii. p. 284, note.)

lint even a worse species of desecration than this

wxs the destruction of the most beautiful marble

columns, by converting them into lime. Toggio

complain-, (a.D. 1430) that the temple of Concord,

which was almost perfect when he first came to

Home, had almost disappeared in this manner. (** Ca-

pitolio contigua forum versus lupereat pocticni aedis

C .n«ordiae, quam emu primum ad urbeui accessi,

vidi fere integrum, ojiere marmoreo ndmodum spe-

cioso; Romani puetmodum, ad calcem, aedem totam

et portions partem, disject is colnmnia, sunt demo-

liti," de Var. Fort. p. 12.) And the same practice |

is reprobated in the verso of Aeneas SjH'ias, lita-

wards Pope PSm II.:—

"Sed tuus bic populus, rnurU defossa vetartk,

Calcis in obsequium mannora dun coqtl

Impia tercentum si sic gens egerit smm

Nullum hie indicium nobihtalis frit"

(In Mabillon, .Via. ltd.lt)

The melancholy progress of the desdttat i

Rome might be roughly traced from some i

memorials. The account of the writer calM I

Anonymus Einsiedlensis, who Tisited Ruu* «frs

the 9th century, which has been pobiaeni I

Mabillon (AnaL w. p. 502), and by Hand (J

f, PkUel w. Piidag. i. p. 115), exhibits 11

more copious list ot monuments than that dm

anonymous writer, who compiled a book /* J

bilibus liomae, in the 12th or 13th ceo tan. (U

faucon, friar. Ital. p. 283, seq.; Jubby. If

Lett, di Roma, 1820, Kusc i.—it.) Srt«l |

sages in the works of I'etrarch exhibit tat I

and desolate state of Rome in the 14th ceoaayT^J

consequence of the removal uf the holy mtwi

non. Thus, in a letter to I rion V\, bf I

** Jacent domus, labaut maenia, teinpla muzi. i  
pereunt, calcantur leges.1' And a Unit

*' Late rami in humi jacet et Eoi lesianun mm  
nium tccto carens venits patet ac pJuvus5 At

lib. ix. ep, 1.) Yet the remains ot' aacaell

splendour were still considerable enough to i

the wonder and admiration oi Manuel Cb

at the commencement of the 15th century,

seen in his epistle to the emperor John 1

(subjoined to Codinus, de Antiq. C. P. p- lut.S

Much destruction must have beeu perpetrsJtai

this j«riod to the time, and even during tie I

Poggio. But the progress of desolat**

have been arrested subsequently to that1

whose catalogue of the ruins docs not exhiiat I

many more remains than may yet be h

is now taken to arrest as fax a* prtt&ibb

inevitable influence of time; and the i

baa at present nothing to regret except

active means are not applied to the

the ancient city. The funds devoted to 1

erection of a magnificent basilica far wittl

walls, and on so unwholesome a bite that 4

monks arc forced to desert it during the t

summer, might, in the eye at least of txaaai

taste, have been more worthily devoted to I

object.

VTL PorciAim or Koxl

Before we close this part of the subject at

expected that we should say soateliiinc

the probable amount of the population

The inquiry is unfortunately inv...-. <sj m

scurity, and the vagueness of the data m

any calculation can be founded is such

UBpoaatbla to arrive at any wholly;

elusion. The latitude hence allowed i

from the fact that the estimate* of i

modern scholars are about four

those of others; and whilst Durema de la J

his Kconomie politique de* Homai*%s (i_ p. m

sets down tiie population at 562,UUO aoal

in his liamische Gtsckickte (vol. i, pc m

• ].). estimates it at 2.265.000; nay 1 i\uM

his work Dc Mmjnitudine Romamm (na, jQ]

carried it up to the astounding number at 1

But this is on absurd exaggeration; whiist. I

