664 TRA PRAENESTK.

Ciiunnnatiis, following up his advantage, reduced

eight towns which were subject to Praeneste by |

force of arms, and compelled tlie city itself to suh- 1

mission (Liv. vi. 26—29). There can be little

■ ioiibt that the statement of Livy which represents

this as an unqualified surrender (deditio) is one of

the exaggerations so common in the early Roman

history, but the inscription noticed by him. which

was placed by Cincinnatus under the statue of

Jupiter linpcrator, certainly seems to have claimed

the enpture of Praene.>te itself as well as its de­

pendent tuuns. (Test. a. i*. TritnUm. p. 363.)

Yet the very next year the Praenestines were

again in arms, and stimulated the other Latin cities

against Rome. (Liv. vi. 30.) With this exception

we hear no more of them for home time; but a

notice which occurs in Diodorus that they concluded

a truce with Rome in it. c. 351, shows that they

were still acting an independent part, and kept aloof

from the other Latins. (Died. xvi. 45.) It is, how­

ever, certain that they took a prominent part in the

great Latin War of n. C 3-10. In the second year

<>f that war they sent forces to the assi.-dance of the

Pedant, and, though defeated by the consul Aeinilius,

they continued the contest the next year together

with the Tiburtines; and it was the final defeat of

their combined forces by Camillas at Pedum (n. c.

33S) that eventually terminated the struggle. (Liv.

viii, 12—14.) In the peace which ensued, the

Praenestines, as well as their neighbours of Tibur,

were punished by the loss of a part of their ter­

ritory, but in other respects their position remained

unchanged: they did not, like the other cities of

Latiuin, receive the Roman franchise, but continued

to subsist as a nominally independent state, in al­

liance with the powerful republic. They furnished

like the other "socii" their quota of troops on their

own separate account, and the Praenestine auxili­

aries are mentioned in several instances as funning

a separate body. Even iu the time of Polybius it

was one of the places which retained the Jus Exilii,

and could afford shelter to persuiis banished from

Home. (Pol. vi. 14.)

On the arrival of Pyrrhus in Italy the fidelity of

the Praenestines seems to have been suspected, and

the Romans C'nupclled them to deliver hostages.

(Zonar. viii. 3.) Shortly aflerwards Praeneste was

the point from whence that monarch turned back

on his advance to Koine. There is no probability

that he took the town. Eutropius says merely that

he advanced to Praeneste; and the expression of

Floras that lie looked down upon Rome from the

citadel of Praeneste is probably only a rhetorical

it'urish of that inaccurate writer. (Flor. ii. 18;

Eutrop. ii. 12.) In the Second Punic War a body

of Praenestine troops distinguished themselves by

their gallant defence of Casilhium against Hannibal,

and though ultimately compelled to surrender, they

were rewarded for their valour and fidelity by the

Roman senate, while the highest honours were paid

them in their native city. (Liv. xxiii. 19, 20.) It

is remarkable that they refused to accept the offer

of the Roman franchise; and the Praenestines in

general retained their independent position till the

period of the Social War, when they received the

Roman franchise together with the other allies.

(Appian, B. C. i. 65.)

In the civil wars of Marius and Sulla, Praeneste

bore an important part. It was occupied by Cinna

when he was driven from Rome in b. c. 87 (Appian,

ti. C. i. 05), and appears to have continued in the

hands of the Marian

afforded a shelter to t

remains of his army,

Sacri]>ortus. The nati

been greatly increased

Sulla abandoned all id

arms, mud was conten

vallation round it, and

a blockade, the coinms

Lucretius Ofella. while

lions in the field agai

Marian party. Repeal

these generals to reli

effect; and at length,

Colline Gate and the i

Pontius Tele.-dnus, th

gates to Ofella. Mari

a vain attempt to eseaj

put an end to his own

94; Plut Mar. 46, ,

ii. 26. 27; Liv. Epit.

itselt was severely puni

distinction were put

given up to plunder;

mantled, and a milita

jxts^ession of its terril

ii. 194; Strab. v. p.

town seems to have 1

from the hill to the \

of Fortune with its ap

enlarged as to occupy

ancient city. (Nibbv

but see Ronnann, Ah

429.)

Rut the citadel sti

strength of the poeitioi

place of imjiortauce i

find it mentioned as or

was desirous to oceu]

dionsly guarded by C

at a later period L. An

41, on the first outbre

vian, and from thence

to his rival at Rome,

nittl took refuse there

B. C. v. 21, 23, 29.)

little of Praeneste in

the terms in which it

and Appian, thai it i

flitted on its prospei

Appian, B. C. i. 94); I

at that time rose agai

siderable town. Its f

vated and healthy til

resort of the Romans

poets of the first centi

allusions to it as a coc

urban retirement. (J

x. 30. 7; Stat.Si'/s. iv

Elor. i. 11.) Among (

, by Augustus himself,

retirement of Homce.

iii. 4. 23, Ep. i. 2.

there from a danger

N. A. xvi. 13); and

which, though not con

at Tibur, was apparen

was there that the em]

when he lost his son A

veal's old. (Jul. Capi

Praeneste appears

