SOf> ROMA. ROMA.

as its snccesso:*. the downs auren, seems to have

occupied as large an extent of ground, and t*« have

reached from the Palatine to tlic gardens i>t Maecenas

and tlie agger of Servius on the Esquiline. (Suet.

Aero, 31; Tac. Attn. xv. 39.) The Aubba Domtjs

was a .specimen of insane extravagance. Its atrium

or vestibule was placed on the Velia, on the spot

where the temple of Venus and Hume after­

wards itood, and in it rose the colossal Statue

of Nero, 1*20 feet high, the base of which is

still visible at the NW. side of the Colosseum. We

may train an idea of the vastMSl of this residence

by coTii|>ariitg the prose description of Suetonius with

the poetical one of Martial, when we shall see that

the latter has not a!>u>ed the privilege of his calling.

(Suet. iVero, 31; Mart, dt .Syx.c/. 2). It was never

perfectly finished, and Vespasian, as we have laid,

restored the ground to the public. AVc know but

little of the arrangement of the buildings on the

1'alatine itself under Nero, except that the different

parts appear to have retained their former names.

Dninitian added much to the palace, now again

confined to this hill, and fitted it up in a style of

extraordinary magnificence; but, though we fre­

quently hear of single parts, such its baths, diaetae,

a portico called SivUia, a dining-room dignified with

the appellation of Coeuudo JovU, &c, yet wc are

nowhere presented with a clear idea of it as a

whole (cf. Pint PopL 15; Plin, xxxv. 5. s. 38;

Capit. Pert. 11: Mart. viii. 3G; Stat. Silt: iii. 4. 47,

iv. 2. 18, Sic.) The anxiety and terror of the tyrant

are strikingly depicted in the anecdote told by

Suetonius (Ihnn. 14). that he caused the walls of the

portico in which he was accustomed to walk to be

covered with the stone, or crystallised gypsum, called

pfii-ti'/iir.i, in order that he might be able to see

what was going on behind his back. It is uncertain

where the ADOKAEA, or gardens of Adonis, lay, in

which Domitian received Apollouius of Tyana, and

which are marked on a fragment of the Capitohne

plan (fieUori, tab. xi.) Of the history of the palace

httle more is known. Several accounts mention the

dotnufl aurca as having been burnt down in the reign

of Trajan (Oros. vii. 12; Hieron. an. 105, p. 447.

Hone.), and the palace which succeeded it appears

to have been also destroyed by fire in the reign

of Cuinmodus (Dion Cass, lxxii. 24; Herodian, i.

14.)

At the southern extremity of tlie Palatine, Septi-

mius Severn* built the Septikohium, considerable

remains of' which existed till near the end of the

TIIK BtWlZOMUSC.

16th century, when Papa Sx^us V. causedtat flae

to be carried oft' to the Vatican. &yc*unW*m4

the ruins will be found in I>u Pent (tav. 1J)«I

Gamucci (Antichitii d» AV«wi. p. 83, SprWiw—

ifttffH&qmtiwB, t. 45). The name d tb* bs^te%

which, however, is very variously writtea ■ I

MSS. of different authors, is hy some suypeai

have l>een derived from its form, by others

circumstance of seven roods meeting at tha a*

It seems not improbable that a similar pbet

before the time of Severus, since Suetouios

that Titus was born near the hftfMfep (t

though topographers, but without any

grounds, have assigned this to the 3rd

has been inferred from the name that U#

had seven rows of columns, ooe above

this notion seems to be without foandatkn. I

ruins never exhibited traces of more thaatkw

The tomb of Severus must not be confounded I

which, as we learn from Spartianua, taatl

Appia, and built so as to resemble Um Sej

The same author informs us (Ser. 24) hVtf

of Severus was to make the Septizonium ao

the palace, so that it should be the first

strike the eyes of those coming from Ain**£

native country. But the true nature aod dc*

of the building remain enigmatical.

We know of no other attentions in the

except some slight ones under the

bjtlus and Alexander Severus. The

crated there the Templk op HeiJogabltj

Heitoff. 3; Herodian, v. 5), and opened a p

also destined apparently as a place of Ii

(Lampr. Ib. 8). Of the buildmp of

Severus we hear only of a diaeta. erected

of his mother Julia Mainmaea, and

11 ad Maminam " (Id. .4/. Srv. 26).

were small isolated buildinc*, coiainaaly

and somewhat resembled a modem

or pavilion (Plin. Ep. ii. 17, v. 6).

related of both these emperors that they

streets of the Palatine to be rawed with

and rerde antico (Lampr. HtL 24.

The Palatium was probably inhabited hy

during his short reign, after which »

more of it. That emperor is said to hi

baths tliere. (Catid. Imp. YicmL. t-

Rone.)

The Victoria Gkrmaxiciasa, the

recorded in the Suttiia between the

the Lupercal, and which must tiierel

the side next the circus, was pniahW

numerous monuments erected either i

liermanicus of which Tacitus speaks (

or else to Caracalla, who likewise bnrc

Germanicus (Preller, Regitmrn, p. 137

We have already treated pene-raJlv rf t

Sacra Via, and of some of the principal

nected with them, as well as of the XovaYi

Palatine. The Nova Via was not a ver]

road, and we have little more to add

It seems to have bepin at the Purta Ma

like the Sacra Via, at the same spot,

Siimma Nova Via (Soliu. i- I). Fran

ran almost parallel with the Sacra Ya

it and the hill, as far as its northern

turned to theS., and etill continued ti

base of the Palatine as far at lea*

I!»>nianul* (near & Giorgio im

indeed, carry it on aa tar as tne

(Cauiua, Imlic, Top. p. 331); a

