92 ITALIA. ITALIA.

bishop, and the limits of the diocese in general co­

incided with those of the municipal territory.* But

in the period of decay and confusion that followed,

the episcopal see often remained after the city had

been ruined or fallen into complete decay: hence

the ecclesiastical records of the early ages of Chris­

tianity are often of material assistance in enabling

us to trace the existence of ancient cities, and

identify ancient localities,

4. Political and Administrative Division wider

the Roman Empire. ~— It is not till the reign of

Augustus that any division of Italy for adminis­

trative purposes occurs, and the reason is obvious.

So long as the different nations of Italy preserved

the semblance of independence, which they main­

tained till the period of the Social War, no uniform

system of administration was possible. Even after

that period, when they were all merged in the

condition of Roman citizens, the municipal insti­

tutions, which were still in full force, appear to have

been regarded as sufficient for all purposes of in­

ternal management; and the general objects of the

.State were confided to the ordinary Roman magis­

trates, or to extraordinary officers appointed for

particular purposes.

The first division of Italy into eleven regions by

Augustus, appeara to have been designed in the

first instance merely to facilitate the arrangements

of the census; but, as the taking of this was closely

coupled with the levying of taxes, the same di­

visions were soon adopted for financial and other

administrative purposes, and continued to be the

basis <>f all subsequent arrangements. The divisions

established by Augustus, and which have fortunately

been preserved tit us by Pliny (the only author who

mentions their institution), were as follows; —

I. The First Region comprised Latinm (in the

more extended sense of that name, including the

laud of the Hernicans and Volscians), together with

Campania, and the district of the Picentini. It

thus extended from the mouth of the Tiber to that

of the Silarus ; and the Anio formed its boundary

on the X.

II. The Second Region, which adjoined the pre­

ceding on the SE., included Apulia, Calabria, and

the land of the Hirpini, which was thus separated

from the rest of Samnium.

III. The Third Region contained Lucania and

Bruttium: it was bounded by the Silarus on the

KW. and by the Bradanus on the XE.

IV. The Fourth Region contained all Samnium,

except the Hirpini, together with the Frentani,

Marrucini, Marsi, Peligni, Aequhuli, Vestini, and

Sahini. It thus extended from the Anio to the

frontiers of Picenum,and from the boundary of Fim­

bria on the N. to Apulia on the S, It was sepa­

rated from the latter district by the river Tifernus,

and from Picenum by the Aternus.

V. The Fifth Region was composed solely of the

ancient Picenum (including under that name the

territory of Hadria and of the Praetutii), and ex­

tended along the Adriatic from the mouth of the

Aternus to that of the Aesis.

* A glance at the list of bishoprics existing in  
any of the provinces of Central Italy (Etruria, for

instance, or Umbria), as compared with the names

of the towns enumerated by Pliny in the same dis­

trict, will at once show the connection between the

two. (Bingham's Ecclesiastical ArUttpuities, book ix.

chap. v.

VI. The Sixth Region contained Umbria, to­

gether with the land N. of the Apennines, once

occupied by the Senonian Gauls, and which ex­

tended along the coast of the Adriatic from the

Aesis to the Ariminus. On the W. it was sepa­

rated from Etruria by the Tiber, along the left hank

of which it extended as far as Oericulum.

VII. The Seventh Region consisted of theancimt

Etruria, and preserved the ancient limits of that

country; viz. the Tiber on the E., the Apennines

on the N., and the Tyrrhenian sea on the W.f

from the mouth of the Tiber to that of the Mien.

VIII. The Eighth Region, or Gallia Cisjddaiia,

extended from the frontiers of Liguria near Fa-

cent ia, to Ariminum on the Adriatic, and was

bounded by the Apennines on the S , and by the

Pad us on the X.

IX. The Ninth Region comprised Liguria, ex­

tending along the sea-coast from the Mama to the

Varus, and inland as far as the Pad us, which funned

its northern boundary from the confluence of the

Trebia to its sources in Mt. Vcsulus.

X. The Tenth Region was composed of Venetia,

including the land of the Carni. with the aiding

of Istria, and a part of Gallia Cisalpiua, previously

occupied by the Cenomani, extending as far W. u

the Addua.

XL The Eleventh Region comprised the re­

mainder of Gallia Transpadana, or the whole tract

between the Alps and the Padus, from the sources

of the latter river to its continence with the Auuaa.

It is probable, both from the silence of Pliny, and

from the limited seo]>e with which these divisions

were first instituted, that the regions had origi­

nally no distinctive names applied to them: but

these would be gradually adopted, as the division

acquired increased political imjHirtance. No diffi­

culty could arise, where the limits of the Region

coincided (or nearly so) with those of a previously

existing people, as in the cases of Etruria. Liguria,

Picenum, &c In other instances the name of a

part was given to the whole; thus, the first region

came to be called Regio Campaniae; and hence, in

the Liber Coloniarum, the *' Civitates Campaniae"

include all Latinm also. [Campania.] The name

of Regio Samnii or Samnium was in like manner

given to the fourth region, though perhaps not till

after the northern part of it had been t>eparated Iruru

the rest under the name of Valeria.

The division introduced by Augustus continued

with but little alteration till the time of Coo-

htantine. The changes introduced by Hadrian and

M. Amelias regarded only the administration of

justice in Italy generally (Spartian. Hadr. 22;

Capit. M. Ant. 11); but in this, as wvil at in

various other regulations, there was a marked a;>-

proach to the assimilating the government of Italy

to that of the provinces; and the term "Consu-

laris," applied to the judicial officers ap}»ointed by

Hadrian merely to denote their dignity, toon cantt*

to be used as an official designation fur the governor

of a district, as we find it in the N^titisu But tb«

distinction between Italy and the provinces is fctill

strongly marked by I'lpian, and it was not till tbc

fourth century that the term "Provincia ** came

to be applied to the regions or districts of Iuiy

(Mommsen, ad Lib. CoL pp. 11)3, 194.)

The changes introduced into the divisions of

Augustus, either before tho time of Constantino or

under that emperor, were tho following:—1. The

fourth region was divided into two, the southern

