LECTUM. 153 LEGIO VII. GEMINA.

by the Jerusalem Itin. after Arausio (Orange), and

xiii. M.I\ from it D'Anville says that the distance

k l>o great, for it seems that the place is at the

passage of the small nver Lez. [G. L.]

LECTUM (ri AurreV), a promontory in the

south-west of Troas, opposite the island of Lesbos.

It forms the south-western termination of Mount

Ida. (Horn. II xiv. 294; Herod, ix. 114; Thucyd.

viii. 101 ; PtoLv.2. § 4; Plin. v. 32; Liv. xxxvii.

37.) In the time of Strabo (xiii. p. 605, comp.

p. 553) there was shown on Cape Lectum an altar,

said to hare been erected by Agamemnon to the

twelve great gods; but this very number is a proof

of the late origin of the altar. Under the Byzan­

tine emperors, Lectum was the northernmost point

of the province of Asia. (Hierocl. p. 659.) Athe-

naeas(iii- p. 88) states that the purple shell-fish,

found near Lection as well as near Sigeum, was of

a large sue. The modern name of Lectam is Bala,

or Santa Maria. [L. S.]

LE'CYTH US (AJjkvQos), a town in the peninsula

of Sithoma in Chakidice, not far from Torone, with

a temple to Athena. The town was attacked by

Brcsidas, who took it by storm, and consecrated the

entire cape to the goddess. Everything was de-

rmdUhed except the temple and the buildings con­

nected with it (Thuc. iv. 115, 116.) [E. B. J.]

LEDERA'TA or LAEDEKATA (Aftepdra and

XtTtpard), a fortified place in Upper Moesia, on the

high nod from Viminacium to Dacia, on the river

)i>rgus. It was a station for a detachment of horse

archers. (Proeop. de Aed. iv. 6; Tab. Pent; Notit.

Imp., where it is called Laedenata.) Ruins of

aacitnt fortifications, commonly identified with the

file of Lederata, are found in the neighbourhood of

Rama. [L.S.]

LEDON (A«8^»: Eth. AeSoWioy), a town of

Phocia, north of Tithorea, the birthplace of Philo­

melas, the commander of the Phocians in the Sacred

War. In the time of Pausanias it was abandoned by

the inhabitant's, who settled upon the Cephissus, at

tli? distance of 40 stadia from the town, bat the

ruin* of the latter were seen by Pausanias. Leake

rapposea that the ruins at Paled Fiva are those of

Ledou. (Paus. x. 2. §2, x. 3. §2, x. 33. §1;

Leake, Northern Greece, vol. ii. p. 89.)

LEDRON (Atypov), a place in Cyprus, near Leu-

c-ikj*, which the ecclesiastical writers mention as a

babop's we. (Sozomen,II.E. v. 10; Niceph. Callist.

Tii.42; Enzel, Kyprvs, vol. i. p. 152.) [E. B. J.]

LEDUS, or LEDUM, as Mela (ii. 5) names it, a

aull river of Gallia Narbonensis. Eestus Avienus

("r. .\farit 590) names it Ledus. Mela speaks of

the "Stagna Volcarum, Ledum flutneii, castcllum

Lara." The Lcdus is the Lez, which passes by

Sextantio, to the east of Montpellier, and flows into

the Euwg de Magwlone or Perols below Latera,

am Late* or Latte. Pliny (ix. 8) gives the name

of Stagnant Latera to this E'tang, and he speaks of

it as abounding in mullets, and describes the way of

taking them. The mullet is still abundant there.

Hiny places the Stagnum Latera in the territory of

Xetnaosaft (Stmts), which is at some distance. But

the EUnaa and the Castcllum Latera may be among

the many small places (Plin. hi. 4) which were

Bade dependant on Nemausus (Nemausiensibus

attribota). [G. L.]

LEfiTA-NL [Laektani.]

LEGAE (Arryat, Strab. xi. p. 503; Anyef, Plut.

r\mp. 35), a people on the shores of the Caspian,

eautfed between Albania and the Amazones, and

j belonging to the Scythian stock. (Theophanes, ap.

Strab. I. c.) The name survives, it has been con­

jectured, in the modern Lesghi, the inhabitants of

the E. region of Caucasus. (Comp. Potocki, Voyage

dans les Steps dAstrakhan, vol. i. p. 239.) [E. B.J.]

LEGEDIA, in Gallia, is placed by the Table on

a road from Condate (Jiennes) to Coriallum, perhaps

Oterbourg. It is 49 Gallic leagues from Condate

to Legcdia, and 19 from Legedia to Cosedia. None

of the geographers agree about the position of Le­

gedia. Walckenaer places it at Villebaudon, near

Lezeau, in support of which there is some similarity

of name. [G. L.]

LEGEOLIUM, a town in Britain, mentioned in

the Itinerary. At Castleford, in Yorkshire, the road

from Isurium (Aldborough) crosses the river Aire;

and in this neighbourhood coins and other antiquities

have been dug up. A camp, however, has yet to

be discovered. Castleford is generally identified

with Legeolium.

Lagecium is the first station from York on the

way to London, 21 miles from the former town, and

16 from Danum ( = Doncaster). This is from the

8th Itinerary.

In the 5th Legeolium is exactly in the same po­

sition. This identifies the two. [R. G. L.]

LE'GIO (Aeytdtv), a town of Palestine mentioned

by Eusebius and S. Jerome. Its importance is

intimated by the fact that it is assumed by them as

a centre from which to measure the distance of

other places. Thus they place it. 15 M. P. west of

Nazareth, three or four from Taanach (Onomast.

s. w. Nazareth, Thaanach, Thanaach Catnona,

Apkraim.) Reland (Palaest. s. v. p. 873) correctly

identifies it with the modern village Lcgune or

el-Lejjun, "on the western border of the great plain

of Esdraelon," — which Eusebius and S. Jerome

designate, from this town, f*4ya ir&ov Atytuvos

(Onomast. s. v. raGa$wv),— " where it already be­

gins to rise gently towards the low range of wooded

hills which connect Carmel and the mountains of

Samaria," Its identity with the Megiddo of Scrip­

ture is successfully argued by Dr. Robinson {Bib.

Res. vol. iii. pp. 177—180.) Megiddo is constantly

joined with Taanach, and Lejjun is the requisite

distance from the village of Taann&k, which is

directly south of it. Both were occupied by Ca-

naanitish sheik lis (Josh. xii. 21), both assigned to

the half-tribe of Manasseh, though lying within the

borders of Issachar or Asher (xvii. 11; 1 Chron.

vii. 29); both remained long unsubdued (Judges, i.

27). In the battle between Barak and Sisera "they

fought in Taanach by the Waters of Megiddo,''—whicli

waters issue from a copious fountain, the stream

from which turns several mills, and is an important

tributary to the Kishon (Maundrcll, Journey, March

22, p. 57.) This is probably the place mentioned by

Shaw as the Ras-el-Kishon, or the head of the

Kishon, under the south-east brow of Mount Carmel.

Three or four of its sources, he says, lie within less

than a furlong of each other, and discharge water

enough to form a river half as big as the Isis.

(Travels, p. 274, 4to. ed.) It was visited and de­

scribed by Mr. Wolcott in 1842. He found it to be

an hour and 40 minutes from Taannuk (Bibliotheca

Sacra, 1843, pp. 76—78.) The great caravan road

between Egypt and Damascus passes through Lejjun;

and traces of an old Roman road are to be seen to

the south of the village. [G. W.]

LEGIO VII. GE'MINA (Itin. Ant. p. 395;

Atyiwv £ VepnaviKJ), Ptul. ii. 6. § 30: Lean), a

