STAL IOC ANUS PORTUS.

iW./**, separated from the land by a long, narrow,

a; which widens near Cetie, where the Mons Setius

k The* laguoes are the E'tangs de Tau, de Fron-

fun. At Maguelone, and others. Avicnus (Or.

itrk. 58) mentions the Taunts or E'tang de Tau:

■ Taarom paludcm namqne gentiles vocant."

: ,1 IriifM; LeDUb]. [G. L.]

MALIOCA'NUS PORTUS (i(r)a\ioKcwit Aj­

ar), r'tolerny (ii. 8. § 2) places this port between

mtam Promontorium [Gobaecm] and the month

'the Tetus. on the coast of Gallia Lugdunensis.

fiavule (.Yonee, <fc.) found in a manuscript plan

i f A Me du Conquet the name of Port Sliocan,

I Cap Sl'ihi, at the bottom of the road of Loo-

Irut. Lobinrmu in bis History of Brttagne says

M the name means White Tower, and that there

n traces of a port there, constructed of brirk

at cement. Gosselin places the Staliocanus on the

omit of Brttagne, at the outlet of the river on

»h Vorlaix stands. It is impossible to dcter-

m which of the numerous bays on this irregular

aw u Ptolemy'a Staliocanus. [G. L.]

tiTA.XACUM, a place in Noricum, on the road

aig along the Danube from Augusta Vindeli-

m to Carnuntnm and Vindobona. (/(. Ant.

149; Tab. Pent.) Its exact site is uncertain.

«ip. Muehar, Xoriban, i. p. 285.) [L. S.]

STATIELLI (SrarieAAoi), a tribe of Ligurianj,

s> inhabited the northern slopes of the Apennines,

hath aides of the valley of the Bormida. Their

■aty is dearly fixed by that of the town of Aquae

Heilse, now Acqui, which grew up under the

nn Empire from a mere watering place into a

r» and populous town, and the chief place of the

ir.img district. The Statielli are mentioned

1->y in B.C. 173, as an independent tribe, who

n attacked by the Roman consul, M. Popillius:

it defeating them in the field, he attacked and

k their city, which Livy calls Carystus, and, not

seat with disarming them, sold the captives as

>*•. This proceeding was severely arraigned at

ac by the tribunes, especially on the ground that

featsriai had previously been uniformly faithful

;m Koman alliance; but they did not succeed in

■ong reparation (Liv. xlii. 7, 8, 9, 21). Livy

as taw name Statiellates, while Decitnui Brutus,

t croased their territory on his march from Mu-

l a. c. 44, and addresses one of his letters to

■tv from thence, dates it" finibus Statiellensium"

<• ad Fam. xi. 11). Pliny, who enumerates

• airung the tribes of Ligurians existing in his

t, ealla them Statielli, and their chief town

us Staliellorutn (Plin. iii. 5. s. 7). The site of

r-ta», mentioned only by Livy, in tbn passage

K rrted. ia wholly unknown. [K. H. B.j

TATt/KIA (Sravwia: Eth. Statoniensis), a

i «f Southern Etruria, which is mentioned by

aw among the smaller towns (woKlxftu) in that

of Italy. (Strab. v. p. 226.) Pliny also

!. 3* the Stat ones among the municipalities of

trie, (5. a. 8), but neither author atfords any

tt due to its situation. We learn, however, that

as celebrated for its wine, which was one of the

. noted of those grown in Etruria (Plin. xir.

8 J, and that there were valuable stone-quarries

k territory. (Vilruv. ii. 7. § 3.) From the

a in which Vitruvius sneaks of these, it seems

arjle that the district of Statonia, which he calls

a-ieiiura Statoniensis," adjoined that of Tar­

si; and both I'liny and Seneca allude to the

STKLLATIS CAMPUS.

1035

existence of ft lake " in agro Statoniensi," in which

there were floating islands. (Plin. ii. 95. s. 96;

Senec N. Q. iii. 25.) This can hardly be any other

than the small Logo di Afezzano, a few miles W. of

the more extensive Logo di Bolsena: we must there­

fore probably look for Statonia between this and

Tarquinii. But within this space several sites have

been indicated as possessing traces of ancient habi­

tation; among others, Farncse and Castro, the last

of which is regarded by Cluver as the site of Sta­

tonia, and has as plausible a claim as any other.

But there ia nothing really to decide the point.

(Cln\er, Ital. p. 517; Dennis's Etruria. vol. i. pp.

463 468.) [E. H. B.]

STATUAS (AD), the name of two places

in Pannonia, one of which was situated on the

Danube, a little to the west of Bregetio (It. Ant.

p. 246; Notit. Imp.), and the other further south­

east, in the neighbourhood of Alisca and Alta Ripa

(It Ant. p. 244), which Muchar (.Vorifctiin, i. p.

264) identifies with Suhaard. f L. S.]

STATUAS (AD), a town in the territory of the

Contcstani in Uispania Tarraconensis. (/tin. Ant.

p. 400.) Variously identified with Adsanrta and

Xatica or S. Felipe. [T. H. D.]

STAVANI (StoookoI, Ptol. iii. 5. § 25). a people

in European Sarmatia, at the N. foot of Mons Bo-

dinus. Ukert (iii. 2. § 435) conjectures that we

should read 2rAaucm>i, that is, Slavi, and seeks thetn

on tho />un<iand the Ilmensee. [T. H. D.]

STECTO'RIUM (2Terrdpioi': Eth. Jrea-roprH-oj),

a town of Phrvgia, between Peltae and Svnnaria.

(Ptol. v. 2. § 25; Pans x. 27. § 1.) Kicpert (in

Franz's Fimf Inschriften, p. 36) identifies it with

the modern Afijum Karahissar. (Comp. Sestini,

A'um. let. p. 126.) [L. S.]

STEl'RIA. [Attica, p. 332, a.]

STELAE (2tt}Aoi, Steph. B. s. ».), a Cretan city

which is descrilied by the Byzantine geographer as

being near two towns, which are called, in the pub­

lished editions of his work, Paraesus and Rhi-

thyinna. In Mr. Pashley's map the site is fixed

at the Mohammedan village of Philippo on the

ronte from KasttUand (Inatus) to Haghias Dheka

(Gortyna). [E. B. J.]

STELLA'TIS CAMPUS was the mime given to

a port of the rich plain of Campinia. the limits of

which cannot be clearly determined, but which

appears to have adjoined the "Falernus ager." and

to have been situated likewise to the N. of the

Vulturnus. Livy mentions it more than once during

the wars of the Romans with the Samnites (ix. 44,

x. 31), and again during the Second Punic War,

when Hannibal found himself there by an error of

his guides (Liv. xxii. 13). From his expressions it

would appear to have adjoined the 44 Calenus ager,"

and apparently was the part of the plain lying between

Cales and the Vulturnus. It was a part of tho

public lands of the Roman people, which the tribune

Rullus proposed by his agrarian law to parcel out

among the pooret citizens (Cic. de Leg. Agr. i. 7. ii.

31): this was for the time successfully opposed by

Cicero, but the measure was carried into effect a few

years later by the agrarian law of Caesar, passed in

his consulship, B. c. 59 (Suet. Cats. 20). The

statement of Suetonius that the district thus named

was previously regarded by tho Romans as conse­

crated, is clearly negatived by the language of Cicero

in the passages just referred to. The name of Stel-

latinus Ager seems to have been given to a district

in quite another part of Italy, forming a part of the

