SALONA. 885 SALPIXUM.

«i (Caes. B. C. iii. 9.) The profligate Ga- |

j. J'jrr being cooped up for months in the

iw. dial here. (Auct. B. Alex. 43 ; Dion Cast.

. It) In a. c. 39 Asinius Pollio defeated the i'ar-

i, who bid espoused the cause of Brutus and

fcsi, tod took Salonae, in commemoration of

^bbno Asinius Gallus bore the "agnomen"

am (CotnpVirg. BucoL viii. 7; Hor. Carm. ii. 1.

-16) From the time it received a colony it  
Mai ipou as the great bulwark of the Koman

a m that aide the Adriatic, and was distin-

atd tor iU loyalty, as was shown in the siege it

uumI viinM Bato the native leader, a. u. 6.

'■'-> put Human roads in Oalmatia met at this

'vA alien Uie country was divided in!o three

urates," or assize towns, as many as 382

waw* were convened to it. (Plin. iii. 26.)

r lb* earlier emperors the town was embel-

i «Ki many public buildings, the number of

c •»» greatly increased by Diocletian, who,

"Sag hi Porpbyrogenitus (de A dm. Imp. 29),

rebuilt the city. No great change took

rW nearly two centuries after the death of

•■paw j but if we are to believe Porphy-

aw, (I e.) the "long Salonae" atUined to

IJ« uze of Constantinople. In A. n. 481 Sa-

*u taken by Odoacer, king of the Heruli, but  
*ojr*red from the Goths by tlie Gepid prince  
J'. Ihs general of Justinian. Totila occupied it

■aaa. Little is known of these sieges, except

it >u partially destroyed. (Procop. B. G i.

'.&&) ft soon recovered from these diasters;

> vat from Salonae that Belisarius in 644,

>irv* in 552. set out to rescue Italy from

sad the Goths. (Comp. Gibbon, c xliii.)

'%n invaded Dalmatia in 639, and, advancing

Salome, pillaged and burnt the town, which

Uat time has been deserted and in ruins.

- Porph. L c) The town possessed a dock-  
•kkh. from Strabo's (vii. p. 315) account,

to hare been the only one deserving that

■& the Dalmatian coast. The present state

(We offers many illustrations of past events;

>/*Tng works touch very fully upon the

! «f tLe fortifications and other ruins: Wil-

Inlmeitia, vol. i. pp. 151—164; Neigebaur,

•i-SUtru, pp. 151—164; Lanza, Antiche

•■^vtane inediU, Zm, 1850; F. Carrara,

•Jm « Semri di Salona, Trieste, 1850.

t»ne of Salonae mainly rests upon its neigh-

having been chosen by Diocletian as the

: ita retirement. That emperor, after bis

*«, spent the last nine years of his life in  
ura of the palace which has given its name

a Spalalo, often erroneously called Spa-

I >nc Split, is a corrnpted fonn of Salonae

s or S. Palatium. The building of the

• rjnn the precincts of which the greater

the modern town is constructed, occupied

lean. The atone, which was very little

to marble itself, was brought from the

■rf Tragnriutn, After the death of Dio-

''i*. little is known of the palace or its

a. Part of it was kept by the magistrates

a. as a state palace; and part was occupied

<lartaam," or cloth manufactory, in

xaaan only were employed, — whence the

1*. va* tenanted by the phantom emperors

'art, Crycerina and Julius Nepos, the latter

•u msrdered here. When Salonae was

*7 the Atari, tbe houseless citizens tied to

the massive structure of the palace for shelter: the

settlement swelled by the arrival of their country­

men became a Koman city under the name of

AsPALATUUM, and paid an annual tribute of 21)0

pieces of gold to the Eastern emperors. (Const.

Porph. /. c.)

The palace is nearly a square, terminated at

the four corners by a quadrangular tower. Ac­

cording to the latest and most accurate admeasure­

ments, the superficial content, including the towers,

occupies a space of a little more than eight acres.

(Wilkinson, lialmatia, vol. i. pp. 114—143 ; Neige­

baur. Die Sud-Slaven, pp. 134—151.) The en­

tire building was composed of two principal sec­

tions, of which the one to the S. contained two

temples — one dedicated to Jupiter the other to

Aesculapius — and the private rooms of the em­

peror. Two streets intersected each other at riplit

angles, nearly in the centre of it; the principal one

led from the Porta Aurea, the main entrance on

the N. front, to a spacious court before the vestibule;

the other ran in a direct line from the W. u> the K.

gate, and crossed the main street just below the

court. What remains is not enough to explain the

distribution of the various parts of the interior.

By a comparison of what existed in his time with

the precepts of Vitruvius, Adams (Antiquities of

IHocletians Palace, 1764) has composed his inge­

nious restoration of the palace. (Comp. Gibbon,

c. xiii.) All the gates, except the Porta Argentea,

were defended by two octagonal towers; the princi]*!

or "golden gate" still remains nearly perfect. The

temple of Jupiter is now the "Duomo," and that of

Aesculapius is a baptistery dedicated to St. John.

Diocletian's palace marks an aera; — columnar was

so combined with arched architecture, that the

arches were at first made to rest upon the enta­

blature, and afterwards were even forced imme­

diately to spring from the altacns, in violation of

the law of statics, which requires undiminished and

angular pillars under the arch; at length the enta­

blature itself took the fonn of an arch. (Miiller,

Ancient Art, § 193.) But although this archi­

tecture offends against the rules of good taste, yet

these remains may serve to show how directly the

Saracens and Christian architects borrowed from

Koman models many of the characteristics which

have been looked upon as the creation of their own

imagination. (Comp Hope, Architecture, vol. i.

c viii.; Freeman, JJitt. of Architecture, p. 152.)

A plan of the palace of Diocletian, taken from Adnms,

will be found in Kergusson's J/iauIhook of Architec­

ture, vol. i. p. 356, accompanied by an account of

tbe general arrangements of the building. [K.B J.3

SALIT.SA, a Koman municiiiium in Ilispania

Baetica, SK. of Hispalis, at the mined Faciakauir,

between Utrera and Coronil. (Florei, Ksp.Sagr.

ix. p. 17; Mionnet, Suppl. i. p. 44.) [T. H. I).]

SAL1TNUM (£(A. Salpinas), an ancient city of

Etrnria, mentioned only by Livy (v. 31, 32), who

speaks of the Salpinates as assisting the Volsiniana

in their war against Kome in b. c. 389. It is clear

from the manner in which they are here spoken of

that they were an independent people, with a con­

siderable territory and a fortified city; and the man­

ner in which they are associated with the powerful

Volsiniana would lead to the inference that they also

must have been a people of considerable power.

Yet no subsequent meatien of their name is found,

and all trace of their existence disappears. Niebuhr

conjectures that Salpinum occupied the site of the>

3 L 3

