1014 SIRMIO. SISCIA.

tho Servian kingdom. Stephen Dushan in the 14th

century seized on this large and flourishing city, and

assumed the imperial crown here, where lie esta­

blished a court on the Roman or Byzantine model,

with the title of Eiri]«eror of Romania, Sclavonia, and

Albania. (Niceph. (ireg. p. 467.) After his death

a partition of his dominions took place but the

(m'eks have never since been able to recover their

former preponderance in the provinces of the Stry-

monic valley. Suhau Murad took this town from

the Servians, and when Sigismund, king of Hungary,

was about to invade the Ottoman dominions, Bayezid

(Bajazet Ilderim) summoned the Christian princes

who were his vassals to his camp at Serrhae, pre­

vious to his victory at Nicopolis, .v. t>. 1396. (J.

von Hammer, Gesch. des Oman, AescAev, vol. i.

lip. 193, 246, 600.)

Besides the Macedonian inscriptions of the Roman

empire found by Leake (Inter. 126) and Oousinery,

the only other vestige of the ancient town is a piece

of Hellenic wall faced with large quadrangular

blocks, but composed within of small stones and

mortar forming a mass of extreme solidity. Servian

remains are more common. (Leake, Northern Greece,

vol. iii. pp. 200—210.) [E. B. J.]

SI'RMIO (SermUme), a narrow neck or tongue of

land, projecting out into the Lake Benacus (Logo

tli Gardti), from its southern shore. Though a

conspicuous anil picturesque object in all views of the

lake from its southern shores, it is unnoticed by any

of the geographers, and its name would probably

have been unknown to us, but for the circumstance

that Catullus, who was a native of the neighbouring

Verona, bad a villa on its shores, and has sung the

praises of Sirmio in one of the most charming odes

in the Latin language (GatnIL xxxi.). The name of

Sinnio is, however, found in the Itineraries, which

place a u Sermione roansio" on the road from Biixia

to Verona, and just midway between the two cities,

22 M. P. from each (Itin Ant. p. 127). This must,

however, have been situated at the entrance of the

jKMiinsula, probably where a road turned off to it, as

it is clear that the highroad could never have turned

aside to the promontory itself.

Kxiensive substructions and other remains of an

ancient villa are stiil visible at the extremity of tire

promontory, where it juts out into the lake: but these

undoubtedly belong to an al>ode on a much more

magnificent scale than the villa of Catullus, and

probably belong to some villa of the imperial times,

which had replaced the humbler dwelling of the

poet. [B.H.B.]

SI'RMIUM (Sfjyuor), an important city in the

south-eastern part of Lower Pannonia, was an

ancient Celtic place of the Taurisci, on the left hank

of the Savus, a little below the point where this

river is joined by the Baemitius (Plin. iii. 28.)

Zasiinus (ii. 18) is mistaken when lie asserts that

Siriiiium was surrounded on two sides by a tri­

butary of the I-ster. The town was situated in a

most favourable position, where several roads met

(It. Ant. pp. 124, 131; It. I/kros. p. 563), and

during the wars against the Dacians and other

Danubian tribes, it became the chief depot of all

military stores, and gradual.y rose to the rank of

the chief city in Pannonia. (Herodian, fit 2.)

Whether it was ever made a Roman colony is not

quite certain, though an inscription is said to exist

containing the words Dec. Colon. Sirmicns. It con­

tained a large manufactory of arms, a spacious

forum, an imperial palace, and other public build-

ings, and was tlte residence of the aininl of 1

first Flavian fleet on the Danube. (A

xvii. 13, xix. 11; XatiL Imp.) Tht <

bus was born at Sirmium. (Vopac /Vte.S.1

comp. Strab. ii. p. 134; PtnL ii. 16. § 8. I

§ 6; Steph. B. s e.; Eotrop. ix. 17;

p. 715, ed. Gronov.; Geoff- Bar. iv, 19.) lb «

is mentioned for the last time by Prooopai (B. C

iii. 33, 34), as being in the hands of the Awvl

when and how it perished are qwsftmm wk^a fc

tory does not answer. Extensive nucs it I

still found about the modem towv

(See Orelli, InscripL n. 3617; Marsili,

p. 246. foil.) (LI

SIRNIDES, a group of small islaad* off tatf

inontory Sammonium in Crete. (Pha. r*.

20.)

SIROC (2ipa'«), a town of Parthyene, i

Isidorus. (Sixth* Parih. c. 12, ed. Mulfcr.)

not clear whether there is any <

town; but Rennell tbinks it

present SeraJchs. (Geoff. Herod, p. 297.)

[daces a district which be calls Straecnt i

AsUbeni, a people who occupied part of j

(vi. 9. § 5). It is not impossible that \

Siracene may be thus connected.

SISAPON Strab. iii. p. \*f\'t

siderable town in Hispania Baetka. (Oc f

19; Plin. iii. 1. s. 3.) It lay N. of

tween the Baetis and the Ansa, and «

for its silver mines and veins of cinaaaar

I c.i Vitruv. vii. 9; Plin. xxxni. 7. a. 40; 1

v. 109.) The town of A Imnden in tht I

rena, with which Sisapon is identified, i

a rich mine of quicksilver. ** The m

rently inexhaustible, becoming richer in

as the shafts deepen. The vein of ■

25 feet thick, traverses rocks of quart* i

and runs towards A Irmxdeneja*, Vrnyia <

occurs also in pyrites and hoinatou.*

20,000 and 25,000 quintals of nvrrcr

procured annually." (Ford, H<mAmk

p. 70 ; comp. Laborde, /tin. ii. p ISS; I

Travels, ii. pp. 72, 77.) The name erf thai

variously written It appears on c

(Sestini, p. 87), whilst others hav* 1

(Florez, Med. iii. p. 119; Minnaet^t-f 1

Supp. i. p. 114.) The form u Sismlaa* " (1

(p. 444) is probably corrupt. It i

same town called Sttrarunf by PiatM* (_

59), who, however, places it in the territoFrf

Oretani, in Uispania Tamoonenats, i

it borders, [T.!

SISAR. [I'SAB.]

SISABA (2«rd>o, Ptol. iv. 3. § 17), a 1

Africa Propria, in the neighbourhood of 1

rhytus. Now litnuert or Bizerta. [ T. \

SISARACA (ZwapaKOy Ptol. ii. *. § J

town of the Murbogi or Tnnnodrp m I

racoiitMi^i^. For coins, see S**!>iim, j*. ly7.

SISAURANUM (to TUamn^nw.

ii. 19, de Aedif. ii. 4). a fcrtrm ox"

above Para, noticed by Procojina. It

where mentioned.

Sl'SClA. SEGESTA, or SEGE STICA |

2«7«Vto, 2e7f<TTuc^), a great town i

Upper Pannonia, on the southern bunk irf I

on an island formed by that hrer and ta

the Colapis and Odra, a canal da£ by 1

pleting the island. (Dion Cass. xlix. 37.)

situated on the groat road from Aexaooa to i

