426 NICOPOLIS. NICOPOLIS.

§ 3; Itln. Ant. pp. 183. 207, 215; Hierocl p. 70.1;

Steph. B. s.v.). Most travellers and antiquaries are

agreed, that Nicopolis is represented by the modern

Turkish town of JJevriki; but as 11 lis place is situ­

ated on a tributary of the Euphrates, the opinion is

opposed to the statements of our authorities, espe­

cially the " Acta Martyrum." Others are inclined to

regard Kara-Aissar,on the Lycos,as marking the site

of Nicopolis; but still the routes indicated in the Iti­

neraries are in favour of Itevriki; whence D'AnviJle

too identifies this place with Nicopolis, assuming that

the error lies with the author of the "Acta Mar­

ty rum,*' who expressly places Nicopolis on the river

Lycus.

3. An episcopal see of uncertain site, in Lydia or

Ionia, mentioned by Hierocles (p. OGU). [L. S.]

4. A town in Cilicia. [Issus.]

5. A town in Palestine. [Emmaus, No. 2.]

NICO'POLIS. II. In Africa. A town in

Aegypt, founded by Augustus Caesar, in u. c. 24,

on the field where he defeated, for the last time,

M. Antonius. and in commemoration of the surrender

of Alexandreta. (Strab. xvii. p. 795 ; Joseph. B.

Jud. iv. 11; Dion Cass. li. 18; Steph. B. s. v.) The

conqueror was at the moment highly incensed with the

Alexandrians; and, by the foundation of a Roman

town in their immediate neighbourhood, sought to

inflict a permanent blow on their political and com­

mercial supremacy. Nicopolis was built a little W.

of the Delta proper, on the banks of the canal

which connected Canopus with the capital, and

about three and a half miles from its eastern gate.

That it was intended for a city of the first rank ap­

pears from its ground plan, which, however,was never

executed. Its founder built an amphitheatre and

adiaulos, and established there Ludi Quinquennales,

in honour of his victory (*A\f£avTiptta, Spanheim,

Epist. v. ^ 3, ed Morell.); and coins bear on their

obverse the legend NIKOnOAIX 2EBA2T. KT12T.

He also designed to erect several temples, and to

transfer to them the principal sacrifices and priest-

colleges of the Macedonian capital. But the whole

scheme was a failure; the natural advantages of

Alexandria were incontestable; and the Roman

"City of Victory" was never more than than a suburb

of its rival. Within less than a century alter its foun­

dation, the name of Nicopolis disappears from history.

A town called Juliopolis, mentioned by Pliny alone

(vi. 23. s. 20), as seated on the same canal, and

about the same distance (20—3U Blades) from

Alexandria, is apparently Nicopolis (see Mannert,

vol. x. p. 020). [W. B. D.]

NICO'POLIS. III. In Europe. 1. AcityofEpeirus,

erected by Augustus, in commemoration of the victory

of Actium, b.c. 31. It was situated near the entrance

of the Ambraciot gulf, on the promontory of Epeirus,

which is immediately opposite that of Actium in

Acarnania. The extremity of the Epeirot promon­

tory is now occupied by the town of Prevesa; and

Nicopolis lay 3 miles to the N. of this town, on a low

isthmus separating the Ionian sea from the Anibnudot

gulf. It was upon this isthmus that Augustus was

encamped before the battle of Actium. His own tent

was pitched upon a height immediately above the

isthmus, from whence lie could see both the outer

sea towards Paxi, and the Ambraciot gulf, as

well as the parts towards Nicopolis. He fortified

the camp, and connected it by walls with the outer

port, called Comarus. (Dion Cass. 1. 12.) After

the battle he surrounded with stones the place where i

Ids own tent had been pitched, adorned it with naval j

j trophies, and built within the enclosure a sarVun

, of Neptune open to the sky. (Dion Cass. li. li.)

J But, according to Suetonius {Aug. 18). he (Wki:^

this place to Neptune and Mars. The uii tu

peopled by inhabitants taken from Ambricia. Aar-

torium, Thyrium, Argos Amphilochicum, L»»-

don. (Dion Cass. li. 1; Suet. Awj. 12. Strati

pp. 324, 325 ; Pans. v. 23. § 3, vil. 18. § 8, l 31.

§ 4.) Augustus instituted at Nieopmis i <,tj&-

quennial festival, called Actia, in comn cmont.'j i

his victory. This festival was sacred to Apollo,

was celebrated with music and gymnastic cm*,

horse-racing and sea-fights. It was proUaWj :«

revival of an old festival, since there was an want

temple cf Apollo on the promontory of Adiaa.

which is mentioned by Thucydides (i. 29). **i *»

enlarged by Augustus. The festival wis deebni

by Augustus to be a sacred contest, by which >tm

made equal to the four great Grecian games; it**

placed under the superintendence uf the LiCrtiae*

inonians. (Dion Cass., Suet., Strub., li ce.) Au­

gustus caused Nicopolis to be admitted intn tat

Ampliictyonic council (Paus. x. 3$. § 3\ andmaa

it a Human colony, (l'lin. iv. 1. s. 2; lac. J«.

v. 10.) A Christian church appears to har? ten

founded at Nicopolis by the Apostle Piul. mP'-t -t

dates his letter to Titus from Nieojolis of >b»

donia, which was most probably the coluov A>

custus, and not the town in Thrace, as sxi?

supposed. Nicopolis continued to be the cbjtf c*f

in Western Greece for a long time, bat it tt*i *•

ready fallen into decay in the reign of Julian, iart

we find that this emperor restored both the e*f

and the games. (Mamertin. Julian. 9.) At th» b»»

ginning of the fifth century it was plundered by lb

Goths. (Pmcop. B. Goth. iv. 22.) It was

restored by Justinian (de Aedif. iv. 2). aad was **f

in the sixth century the capital of Epeiros, (il^rti

p. Gjl, ed. Wessel.) In the middle ages XiixpA

sunk into insignificance, and the town of" PrreB

built at the extremity of the promontory, at koji

abs"rbed all its inhabitants, and was doubtless,* i

similar cases, chiefly constructed out of the raiiD*

the ancient city.

The ruins of Nicopolis arc still very roawdtnii

T hey s t re t c 11 ac ros s the narrow e»t part «tf 8)

isthmus already described. Strabo (vii. p. 3i4

erroneously describes the isthmus as 6U I

breadth; but the broadest part, from the

eastern extremity of the lagoon called Jfa>*«;

Mijtika, is only three miles; while the carro**

part is less than half that distance, sum li

eastern half of the isthmus is occupied by thtbc*

of Mdzoma. This Uiroon is separated fr*o t

Ambraciot gulf only by a narrow tiire*i ci tta

which is u mile long, and has openin^i, wb*r* *

fish are caught in great numbers, as tbev tnSrr t

lagoon in the winter and quit it in the summer. Tl

illustrates the statement of an ancient cevzof*

that fish was so plentiful at Nicopolis as t-1

almost disgusting. (Gtoyr, Grarc. Min. vuL A

13, ed. Hudson.) Nicopolis had \wo harbours

which Strabo (vii. p. 324) says that the nnm »

smaller was called Comarus (Kouaf«oi% wfciir'

further, and larger, and better one, was rut 1

mouth of the gulf, distant about 12 tlaJu

Nicopnlis. 1; would appear, that Strabo nxim*

b <lh the ports to have been on the western w

outside the gulf; but it. is evident from the

of the western coast that this cannot have hr**

case. Moreover, Dion Cassius (1. 12) calla Caa*

