944 SCYTHIA. SCYT1IIA.

N. being supposed to begin with the watershed of the

Irtish, Obi, and other rivers falling into the Arctic

Ocean. Within the limits thus described we may

place the A'or-osbi and A*or-ossi, on the eastern

edge, i. e. in the parts where at the present moment

the lakes distinguished by the name Nor occur.

It should be added, however, that the syllable is

generally final, as in Koko-nort &c> Still it is a

prominent element in compound names, and indi­

cates Mongol occupancy. The Byltae may be placed

in Bulti-$tany i. e. the country ot' the Bulti — Little

Tibet, the gloss being Persian,

In Ascatancas (the Greek spelling is the more

convenient Affxavra7*f-as), we have the Turkish

-tagh —mountain just as it actually occurs in num­  
berless com pounds.

Karait is a name of common application, chiefly

to members of the Mongol family.

Mass-agctae is a term full of difficulty. Can it

have arisen out of the common name Mtis-tag?

In Scythia extra Imaum, the Casia and Achats*

(gaps*) may be made one and identified with the

Cesii of Pliny. Tlie most reasonable explanations

of these names is to lie found in the suggestion of

Major Cunningham's valuable work on Ladak (p.

4), where the Achassa Wv^xo — Ladakh, and the

Chatae, and Chauronae Scythae = CJtang-thatigand

Khor respectively.

Roughly speaking, we may say that the country

nf the Sacae was formed by an irregular tract of

land on the head-waters of the Ozoa and the water­

shed between it and the Jaxarles, a tract which

included a portion of the drainage of the Indus. It

is only a portion of this that could give the recog­

nised conditions of Scythian life, viz. steppes and

pasturages. These might be founded on the great

table land of Tamer, but not in the mountain dis­

tricts. These, however, were necessary for u resi­

dences in woods and caves"; at the same time, the

population that occupied them might lie pastoral

rather than agricultural. Still they would not be of

the Scythian typo. Nor is it likely that the Sacae of

Ptolemy were so. They were not, indeed, the Sacae

of Herodotus, except in part, i. e. on thfl desert of

the Persian frontier. They were rather the moun­

taineers of Kaferistan, Wakhan, Shugnan, Roskan,

Astor, Hunz-Nagor, atld Liltte Tibet, partly Per­

sian, partly Bhot (or Tibetan), in respect to their

ethnology.

The Scythians beyond the Imaus.—These must

be divided between Ladakh, Tibet, Chinese Tartar?/,

and Mongolia in respect to their geography. Phy­

sically they come within the conditions of a Scythian

occupancy; except where they are true mountaineers.

Ethnologically they may he distributed between the

Mongol, Bhot, and Turk families — the Turks being

those of Chinese Tartary.

The Turcoman districts of the Oxus, Khiva, the

Kirghiz country, Ferghana, Tashkend, with the

parts about the Balkash, give 01 the Scythia

within the Imaus, It coincides chiefly with Inde­

pendent Tartary, with tlie addition of a small por­

tion of Mongolia and southern Siberia. Its condi­

tions are generally Scythian. In the upper part,

however, of the daxartcs, the districts are agricul­

tural at present; nine-tenths of tins area is Turk,

jart of the population being Nomadcs, part indus­

trial and agricultural.

The Scythia or the Byzantine Authors.—

This means not only liunns, Avars, Aluns, and Sar-

matians, but even Germans, Goths, and Vandals,

It is used, however, but rarely. It n»IW cuami

only in books of geography. Even div»* a tit

Scythian name was known under its sjeofie <naf*

nation,

Ktiinologt.—If any name of uitiqUT bt m

ethnological, rather than a geographical, twiu Uat

name is Scythia. Ptolemy alone applies it to ei

area, irrespective of the races of its otenpuU.

every earlier writer it means a numter d

tions connected by certain ethnological

tics. These were physical and moral—finaa\

as when Hippocrates describes the Srytkaa *

siognomy; moral, as when their nomadic babtva

Hamaxobii and Hippemolgi. are pat fanrariii

tincture. Of language as a test less notice a of

though (by Herodotus at least) it is hj >■ ■

overlooked. The division between Srytiant

non-Scythian is always kept in view by boa,

the non-Scythic populations, the Saoruastat

one; hence the ethnology of Scythia invulmtf

Sarmatia, both being heie treated together.

In respect to them, there is no little daoaj

of opinion amongst modern inveMigaiocv Tai

question respecting them, however, has fasfl

swered unanimously.

Are they represented by any of the

sions of mankind, or are they extinct? It

likely that such vast families as each »«*aj

have been has died out Assuming, the*, tbt

sent existence of the congeners ot beta ua 9

inatae and the Scytbae. in what famDy « oasfl

they to be fonnd? The Scythae wen of tat >]

the Sarmatae of the SUvono-Litfauanic stock.

The evidence of this, along with an

the chief differences of opinion. will new at

Scythia being dealt with first. FrnmaflgSBf

means all the populations whose lanpewgtaw

that of the Ottomans of Constantinople, suit

comprises the Turcomans, the Ind*ptooa*t 1

the Uzbeks, the Turks of Chinese Tartary,*

the Yakuts of the Lena, along with sera

tribes of less importance, we may examaf

priori probabilities of the Scythae Lavj£ I

this extended sense, Turks,

The situs of the nations of Soath-waaW

sia, &c., at the beginning of the proper hi

period, is a presumption in favour of taar a

Of these the best to begin with are the

(12th century) of VoUkynia. That they

we know from special statements, and man

of their language compared with that cc'tbe 1

of Independent Tartary. There is no pre*?

being new comers, however much the da*"

their recent emigration may bare been pa*

assumed. The Uzes were what the Oil

were; and before the Uses, the Paaiaaai

century) of Bessarabia anil the DanabMS

palities were what the Ures were, ferial las]

Patzinaks, the Chazars ruled in Kkermm ausj

rida (7th and 8th centuries) like the

the same category with definitely known

and Uzes. These four populations are al

by writers who knew the true Turks a

and, knowing them, may be relied ceL

ledge, however, dates only from the r

tinian [TrjBCAJc]. From the reign,

tiniao to the loth century (the dale of

of the Cumaninns), the Herodateaa

Turk — Turk without evidence of the 1

being recent.

The Avars precede the Chazars, the

