THEBAE BOEOTIAE. 1149 THEBAE BOEOTIAE.

limed in Orchomenus and Thcspiae for the purpose

rrrnwing Boeotia, and the city of Plataca was re-

.i: t<» serve as au outpost of the Spartan power.

iu. ix. I. § 4). A more direct blow was aimed

tbc independence of Thebes in b. c 382 by the

tan of the Cadmeia, the citadel of the city, by

Sjartan commander, Phoebidas, assisted by

mbades and a party in Thebes favourable- to

«r,.v Though Phoebidas appears to have acted

iff secret orders from the Ephors (Dunl. xv. 20;

AfjtsiL 24), such was the indignation excited

itifbuat Greece by this treacherous art In time

fare, that the Ephors found it necessary to dis-

■m Phoebidas and to remove him from his coin*

••J. but they u**k care to reap the fruits of his

fc> by retaining their garrison in the Cadmeia.

'9. UUL t. 2. $ 25.) Many of tho leading

•■m at Thebes took refuge at Athens, and were

n*l with the ^auie kindness which the Athenian

a experienced at Thebes after the close of the

'j-xiftcMau War. Thebes remained in the hands

tbr Spartan party for three years; but in B. c.

1 the Spartan garrison was expelled from the

iitii-ui, and the party of Lcontiades overthrown by

^fedoa and the other exiles. Tho history of

e events is too well known to be repeated here,

the f. J lowing year (u. c. 378) Thebes formed

u.ufice with Athens, and with the assistance of

•Utr resisted with success the attempts of the

^lATTxmians to reduce tliem to subjection; but

notinned increase of the power of the Thebans,

thfir destruction o 1 the city of Plataea [Pla-

a] provoked the jealousy of the Athenians, and

Ely induce* 1 them to conclude a treaty of peace

Sjedtm, b. r, 371. This treaty, usually called

(Are of Callias from the name of the leading

mion negotiator, included all the parties in the

■ ir with the exception of the Thebans, who

- thus left to contend single-handed with the  
A of Sparta. It was universally believed that

• s was doomed to destruction; but only twenty

after the signing of the treaty all Greece was

■nOcd at tbe news that a Lacedaemonian army

t#4u utterly defeated, and their king Cleom-

fclain, by the Thebans, under the command of

th-.hk1.ta, upon the fatal field of Leuctra (b. c.

This battle not only destroyed the pres-

of Sparta and gave Thebes the ascendency of

t«. bat it atript Sparta of her Peloponnesian

><Ter whom she hud exercised dominion for

in?*, and led to the establishment of two new

/ ii |wrrr« in the Peloponnesus, which threatened

"o independence. These were the Arcadian

•Wratiua and the restoration of the state of

mis, both the work of Epaminondas, who con-

ii Jour expeditions into Peloponnesus, and di-

i tike eouncils of Thebes for the next 10 years.

j to the abilities and genius of this extraordinary

'Lit Thebes owed her position at the head of

ireciaa states; and upon his death, at the battle

AfitinetA (b. c 362). she lost the pre-eminence

vi enjnyeij since the buttle of Leuctra. During

tufremacy in Greece, the Thebans were of

r- undisputed masters of Bueotia, and they

■J tb*w»elves of their power to wreak their

-unre up"« Orthoinemis and Thespiae, the two  
i vtuefa hod been tlie most inimical to their

*nty, the one in tbe north and the other in the

uf Boeotia. Tlie Orcboineiiians had in it. c.

'I«»ly joined the Spartans and fought on their

aijJ tLe Thespians had witbdrawu from the

Theban army just before the battle of Leuctra,

when Epaminondas gave permission to any Boeotians

to retire who were averse to the Theban cause.

(Paus. ix. 13. § 8.) The Thespians were expelled

from their city and Boeotia sum after the battle of

Leuctra [Thkhpiae]; and Orchomenus in B. c.

368 was burnt to the ground by the Thebans; the

male inhabitants were put to the sword, and all the

women and children sold into slavery. [Okcho-

MKNUS.]

The jealousy which Athens had felt towards

Thebes before the jteace of Callias had been greatly

increased by her subsequent victories; and tlie two

states appear henceforward in their old condition of

hostility iill they were persuaded by Demosthenes to

unite their arms for the purpose of resisting Philip

of Maccdon. After the battle of Mantineia their fir>t

open war was for the possession of Euboea. After

the battle of Leuctra this island had passed under the

supremacy of Thebes; but, in B.C. 358, discon­

tent having arisen against Thebes in several of the

cities of Euboea, tlie Thebans sent a powerful force

into the islam). The discontented cities applied for

aid to Athens, which was readily granted, and the

Thebans were expelled from Euboea. (Diod. xvi.

7; Dem. tie Chermm. p. 108, de Cor. p. 259, c.

Ctesiph. p. 397.) Shortly afterwards tlie Thebans

commenced the war against tho Phocians, usually

known as the Sacred War, and in which almost all

the leading states of Greece were eventually involved.

Both Athens and Sparta supported the Phocians, as

a counterpoise to Thebes, though they did not render

them much effectual assistance. This war termi­

nated, as is welt known, by tlie intervention of Philip,

who destroyed the Pbocian towns, and restored to

Boeotia Orchomenus and the other towns which the

Phocians had taken away from them, B.C. 346. The

Thebans were still the allies of Philip,when the latter

seized Elateia in Phocis towards the close of B.C.

339, as preparatory to a march through Boeotia

against Athens. The old feeling of ill-will between

Thebes and Athens still continued: Philip calculated

upon the good wishes, if not the active co-operation,

of the Thebans against their old enemies; and pro-

bably never dreamt of a confederation between the

two states as within the range of probability. This

union, however, was brought about by the eloquence

of Demosthenes, who was sent as ambassador to

Thebes, and who persuaded the Thebans to form an

alliance with the Athenians for the purpose of

resisting the ambitious schemes of Philip. In the

following year (b. c. 338) Philip defeated tho

combined forces of Thebes and Athens at the battle

of Chaeroneia, which crushed the liberties of Greece,

and made it in reality a province of the Macedonian

monarchy. On this fatal field the Thebans main­

tained the reputation they had won in their battles

with the Spartans; and their Sacred Band was cut

to pieces in their ranks. The battle was followed

by the surrender of Thebes, which Philip treated

with great severity. Many of the leading citizens

«ere either banished or put to death; a Macedonian

garrison was stationed in the Cadmeia; «nd the go­

vernment of the city was placed in the bands of 300

citizens, the partisans of 1'hilip. The Thebans were

also deprived of their sovereignty over the Boeotian

towns, and Orchomenus and Plataea were restored,

and again filled with a population hostile to Thebes.

(Diodor. xvi. 87; Justin, ix. 4; Paus. ir. 27. $ 10,

ix. 1. § S.) In tbe year after Philip's death (b c.

335) tbe Theban exiles got poosessioii of the city,

