2-1 JERUSALEM. JERUSALEM.

land of Amor, or the Amorite; And that the con­

queror ' had nude bare his right arm to overcome

the chiefs of many walled cities.' This implies that

the fort in question, the name of which is inscribed

upon it, was the chief stronghold of the nation.

That name, when translated from the hieroglyphics

into Coptic, and thence into Hebrew, U Chadash.

The next notice of Chadash belongs to the reign of

Sesostris, and connects it with the Jebusite nation.

The Ammonites had laid siege to the city, and a

joint embassy of the Jebositcs and Hittites, who

were then tributary to Sesostris, entreat him to come

to their aid. The Kgyptians having accordingly

nailed over the Dead Sea, met with another embassy,

from the /.uzims, which gave further particulars of

the siege. The enemy had seized on the fortified

camps erected by the Egyptians to secure their hold

over the country, and spread terror to the very walla

of Chadash. A great battle is fought on a moun­

tain to the south of the city of Chadash. The in­

scription further describes Chadash as being in the

land of Heth. What, then, do wc gather from these

combined notices? Plainly this, that Chadash was

a city of the first importance, both in a military and

civil point of view; the centre of interest to three or

four of the most powerful of the Canaanitish na­

tions; in a word, their metropolis. We find it

moreover placed, by one inscription, in the territory

of the Amoritcs, by another in that of the Hittites,

while it is obviously inhabited, at the same time, by

the .Tehusitcs. Now, omitting for the present the

consideration of the Hittites, this is the exact cha­

racter and condition in which Jerusalem appears in

Scripture at the time of Joshua's invasion. Its me­

tropolitan character is evinced by the lead which

Adoni-aedek, its king, takes in the confederacy of

the Five Kings; its strength as a fortress, by the fact

that it was not then even attempted by Joshua, nor

ever taken for 400 years after. And while, as the

royal city of Adoni-zedek, it is reckoned among the

Amorite possessions, it is no less distinctly called

Jehus {Josh. xv. 8, xriii. 28; Jutlg. i. 21,xix. 10)

down to the days of David; the truth being, ap­

parently, that the Amorite power having been extin­

guished in the person of Adoni-zedek, the Jebusite

thenceforth obtained the ascendency in the city which

the two nations inhabited in common. Nor is there

any difficulty in accounting, from Scripture, fur the

share assigned by the monuments to the Hittites in

the possession of the city; for, as Mr, Osburn has

observed, the tribes of the Amorites and Hittites

apiiear, from Scripture, to have bordered upon each

other. The city was probably, therefore, situated

at a point where the possessions of the three tribes

met. Can we, then, hesitate to identify the Chadash

of the hieroglyphics with the KdStm* of Herodotus,

the El-Kuds of the Aral*, the Kadatha of the

8yrians, the ' Holy' City? The only shadow of an

objection that appears to lie against it is, that, strictly

speaking, the name should be not Chadash, but

Kadsvh. But when it is considered that the name

is a translation out of Canaanitiah into hieroglyphics,

thence into Coptic, and thence again into Hebrew,

and that the difference between f\ and p is, after all,

but small, it is not too much to suppose that

Kadesh is what is really intended to be represented.

That Jerusalem should be known to the Canaanites

by such a name as this, denoting it' the Holy,' will

not seem unreasonable, if we bear in mind wlmt ltas

been noticed above with reference to the title Adoni-

sedsk; and the fact forms an interesting link, con*

necttng the Arabian and Syrian name for the city

with its earlier nomenclature, and confirming the

identity of Herodotuss Cadytis with Jerusalem.

Mr. Osburn has only very doubtingly propounded

(p. 66, note) the view we have undertaken to defend.

He inclines to identify Chadash with the Hadasbah,

or Addasa, enumerated among the southernmost,

cities towards the border of Edom, given to Judah

{Josh, xv. 21) from among the Amorites' posses­

sions. But it seems incredible that we should never

hear again, in the history of Joshua's conquest, of so

important a city as Chadash evidently was: besides,

Hadashah seems to lie too far south. We presume

Mr. Osburn will not be otherwise than pleased to

find the more interesting view supported by any

arguments which had not occurred to him. And

we have reserved one which we think Aristotle him­

self would allow to be of the nature of a TCJCptrjpier

or * clinching argument.' It is a geographical one.

The paintings represent Chadash as surrounded by

a river or brook on three sides; and this river or

brook runs into the Dead Sea, toward the northern

part of it. Surely, nothing could more accurately

describe the very remarkable conformation of Jeru­

salem; its environment on the east, south, and west,

by the waters of the valleys of Jchoahaphat and

Hinnom, and their united course, after their junc­

tion, through the Wady En-Nar into the north-went

part of the Dead Sea. And there are some diffi­

culties or peculiarities in the Scripture narrative

respecting Jerusalem, which the monuments, thus

interpreted, will lie found to explain or illustrate.

We have already alluded to its being in one place

spoken of as an Amorite city, in another as the chief

seat of the Jebiisites. The LXX. were so pressed

with this difficulty, that they adopted the rendering

'Jebusite' for 'Amorite' in the passage which

makes Adoni zedek an Amorite king. {Josh. x. 5.)

The hieroglyphics clear up the difficulty, and render

the change of reading unnecessary. Again, there is

a well-known ambiguity as to whether Jerusalem

was situated in the tribe of Judah or Benjamin; and

the view commonly acquiesced in is, that, being in

the borders of the two tribes, it was considered

common to both. Pernaps the right of possession,

or the apportionment, was never fully settled; though

the Rabbies draw you the exact line through th*

very court of the Temple, But how, it may be

asked, came such an element of confusion to be in­

troduced into the original distribution of the Holy

Land among the tribes? The answer seems to be,

that territory was, for convenience' sake, assigned,

in some measure, according to existing divisions;

thus, the Amorite and Hittitc possessions, as a whole,

fell to Judah; the Jebusite to Benjamin; and then

all the uncertainty resulting from that joint occu­

pancy of the city by the three nations, which ia

testified to by the monuments, was necessarily in­

troduced into the rival claims of the two tribe*."

{Christian Remrmbmncer, vol. xviiL pp. 457—459.)

The ini[>ortai»re of the powerful Jebusite tribe,

who are represented as having u more than one city

or stronghold near the I>ead .Sea, and are engaged

in a succession of wars with the kings of Egypt in

the neighbourhood of its shores;'* whose rich gar­

ments of Babylonish texture,—deleted in the hiero-

pNphica,—and musical instruments, and warlike

accoutrementa, testify to a higher degree of culture

and civilisation than was found among the neigh­

bouring tribes, with many of whom they were nn

leruu of offensive and defensive alliance:—ail Uua

