MEDIA. 301 MEDIA.

gives little or no description of the country they in­

habited, and perhaps all that could be interred from

his language U, that it must have been a moun­

tainous district between the Halys in Asia Minor

and Persia, fit for raising a warlike and indepen­

dent race of men (i. 72). Again, during the wars of

Alexander, Media had to a considerable extent taken

the place of Persia, and was the great country E. of

Mesopotamia, and extending indefinitely along the

Caspian sea eastwards to Ariana and Bactriana.

Still later, at the close of the Roman Republic and

under the earlier emperors, Media was restricted by

the encroachments of the Parthian empire to its

most mountainous parts, and to the Caspian coast

westwards,—the province of Atropatene forming, in

fact, all that could be strictly called Media. Indeed,

its limits were constantly changing atdifferent periods.

Genera] consent, however, allows that Media was di­

visible into three leading divisions, each of which

from time to time was apparently held to be Media

Proper. These were:—1. A northern territory along

the shores of the Caspian, extending more or less

from Armenia ou the W. to Hyrcania on the E.,

comprehending much of the country now known by

the names of Mazanderan and GUdn; 2. Media

Atropatene, a very mountainous district, to the west

and south of the preceding [Atropatene] : and 3.

Media Magna, the most southern, extensive, and, his­

torically, the most important, of the three divisions,

with its capital Ecbatana (the present Hamadan).

Of the ancient geographers, Ptolemy gives this

country the widest boundaries. Media, says he, is

bounded on the X. by the Hyrcanian (i. e. the Cas­

pian) sea, on the \V. by Armenia and Assyria, on

the S. by Persia and a line drawn from Assyria to

Sasiana, and on the E. by Hyrcania and Parthia

(vi. 2. §§ 1, 3). It is clear from this, and still more

fo fnjm the mention he makes of the tribes and towns

in it, that he is speaking of Media in its most ex­

tended serine: while, at the same time, he does not

rvcoenise the triple division noticed above, and speaks

of Atropatene (or, as he calls it, Tropatene, vi. 2, 5)

as one only of many tribes.

Strata, in the tolerably fall account which he

gives of ancient Media, is content with a twofold

division, into Media Atropatene and Media Magna;

to these he cives nearly the same limits as Ptolemy,

comprehending, however, under the former, the

mountain tiact near the Caspian (xi. pp. 522—

526). Pliny, in stating that what was formerly

•Jje kingdom of the Persians, is now (in his time)

under the Parthians, appears only to recognise Me­

dia Magna as Media Proper (vi. 14. s. 17). Atro­

patene, though subject to Ecbatana, the capital of

Media Magna, he does not seem to consider has

any thing to do vi ith it (vi. 13. b. 1C).

We proceed now to describe Media Magna, the

fiM or most northern part of what was popularly

f*\V-d Media having been fully noticed tinder Atko-

TxTtsv. and Ecbataxa. It is very difficult to dis-

tinjuish the classical accounts of the different divi­

sions to which we have alluded, the name Media

br,r.g used very indefinitely. It may, however, be

fated generally, that Media Magna comprehended

the whole of the rich and fertile plain-country which

wis shut in between the great chain of the Cardu-

ciiuui mountains and of Mt. Zagros in the W. and by

Ht. C<ironus on the N. It appears to have extended

a* Cir eouth as Elymais and Susiana, and to have

hmleTed on the eastern side on Caramania and

Ariana, or on what, in later times, was better known

by the name of Parthia. Some have attempted

to prove that it derived its name from its lying

in the middle part of Asia (Gesenius, The$, ii. p.

768; cf. also Polyb. v. 44, who states, 'H Nrfila

kcitou wepl fi(cr]v rijv 'Aofai'). The derivation,

however, admits of doubt. On the Cuneiform In­

scriptions the name is read Mada (Rawlinson, Behis-

tun Intc. At. Journ. vol. x.). Much of this land

was of a high elevation above the sea, but it

abounded in fertile valleys, famous for their rich­

ness, and in meadow land in which a celebrated

breed of horses, called the Nisaean horses, were

raised. (Herod, vii. 40, iii. 106; Diod. xvii.

100 ; Strab. xi. p. 525 ; Aelian, But. Anim, iii. 2;

Ammian. xxiii. 6.; cf. also the modern travellers,

Ker Porter, vol. i. p. 216, Chardin, and Morier.)

It is comprehended for the most part in the mo­

dern province of Irak Ajem.

The principal town of Media Magna was Ecba­

tana (doubtless the present Hamaddn), which,

during the time of the wars of Alexander, as for

many years before, was the capital of the whole

country. [Ecbatana.] Besides Ecbatana, were

other towns of importance, most of them situated

in the HE. part of the country, on the edge of,

if not within, Atropatene, as Kiiaoae and 11k-

RACLEIA.

It is equally difficult to determine with accuracy

what states or tribes belong to Media Magna. It

is probable, however, that the following may be

best comprehended in this division:—The Sagartii,

who occupied the passes of Mt. Zagros; Choro-

mithrene, in the champaign country to the south

of Ecbatana ; Elymais, to the north of Choromi-

threne — if indeed this name has not been erro­

neously introduced here by Ptolemy and Polybius

[Elymais]; the Tapyri or Tapyrrhi, S. of Sit.

Coronus as far as Parthia and the Caspian Gates;

Rhagiana, with its capital Rhagae; Sigriane, Daritis,

and, along the southern end of the Parachoatras,

what was called Syromedia. (See these places

under their respective names.)

The Medi, or inhabitants of Media, are the same

people as the Madai of the Bible, from which

Semitic word the Greek name is most likely derived.

Madai is mentioned in Genesis, as one of the sons

of Japhet (x. 2), in the first repeopling of the

earth after the Flood; and the same name occurs

in more than one place, subsequently, indicating,

as it would seem, an independent people, subject

to the king of Nineveh (2 Kings, xvii. 6), or in

connection with, if not subject to, the Persians,

as in Dan. v. 28, vi. 15; Etth. i. 3, 14. The

first Greek author who gives any description of

them is Herodotus. According to him, they were

originally called Ann, but changed their name to that

of Medi on the coming of Medeiafrom Athens(vii. 62).

They were divided into six tribes, the Busae (htcph.

Byz.), Paraetaceni (Strab. xi. p. 522, xvi. p. 739,

&c. ; Arriaii, iii. 19), Struchates, Arizanti, Budii

(Steph. Byz.), and the Magi. Von Hammer has

attemped to show that most, if not all, of these

names occur under their Persian form in the Zend-

avesta and Shah-nameh (IFiener. Jahrb. ix. pp. 11,

12), but it may be questioned whether the iden­

tification can be considered as satisfactory. Some,

however, of these names indicate the Eastern origin

of the inhabitants of Media, as Arii and Arizahti

[Ariana; Arizanti]; though it may be doubted

whether others of them, as the Magi, ought to bo

considered as separate tribes. The general evidence

