THEHAE AEGYPTI. TIIKBAE AEGYPTI. 1143

!so terred to Irak the current or the stream. The

»«t remarkable monuments are two obelisks of

iimM I1L. respectively 70 and 60 feet high, one

[ nh'ich still remains there, while the other has

m removed to the J'laet d» fa Concorde at Paris,

heir unequal height was partially concealed from

v spectator by the lower obelisk being placed upon

"higher pedestal. Behind them were two mono-

:s»I statues of that monarch, in red Syenite granite,

hoe lire now covered from the breast downwards

th rubbish and fluvial deposit, but were, originally,

eluding their chairs or bases, 39 feet high. Next

steads a court, surrounded by a corridor of double

.lomr», 190 feet long and 170 broad. It is entered

inurji a portal 51 feet in height, whose pyramidal

tags are iaacribed with the battles of rUmesra. On

w "ppnite side of the court a second portal, erected

'Antinoph III., opens upon a colonnade which

»ii to a smaller court, and this again terminates

itb a portico composed of four rows of columns,

rht in each row. Beyond the third portico follows

considerable number of apartments, Banking a

urinary on the walls of which are represented the

rtli of Atnunoph, and bis presentation to Amun.

A dromos of andro-*phinxa, and various build-

rt new covered with sand and dried mud, formerly

■ir*rt*d the quarter of eastern Theboa, represented

I uxor, with that represented by Karnak. Near

tiie latter place a portion of the dromos still

ft-', and a little to the right of it a second

i«u« of crio-tphinjxi branches otT, which must

• « been one of the moot remarkable structures' in

» nty. It led up to the palace of the kings, and

i*»ted of a double row of statues, sixty or seventy

umber, each 11 feet distant from the next, and

h hiving a lion's body aad a ram's head. The

*. entrance of the palace ia a lofty portal, followed  
f..nr spacious courts with intervening gateways.

Tor grandeur of the palace is, in some degree,

i-ntd by later additions to its plan, for on the

bi tide of the great court was a cluster of

ui! dumber*, while on its left were only two

irtrnenta. Their object ia unknown, but they

IMj mrved as lodgings or offices for the royal

:tMiauta. In the first of the two main courts

iod tare obelisks of Thothines I., one in fragments,

■ i4hrr still erect and uninjured. In a second

on to tike right of the first, there were two obelisks

•': the one which remains is 92 feet high. The

lest portion of the palace of Karnak appears to be

«w chambers, and some polygonal columns bearing

r rhield of Sesortasen I. To these—the nucleus

H e later structures—Thothmes HI. made consi-

"V>le additions; among them a chamber whose

..V. tires compose the great Karnak Tablet, so im-

ti-nt * document for Aegyptian chronology.

Hut the Great Court is surpassed in magnificence

the Great HalL This is 80 leet in height, and 329

t Img by 179 broad. The roof is supported by 134

'imr*, 12 in the centre and 122 in the aisles.

■.' central columns arc each 66 feet high, clear

their pedestals, and each 11 feet in diameter.

>• pedestals were 10 feet high, and the abacus

f tt.cir capitals, on which rested the architraves

the coating, was 4 feet in depth. The columns

re warb about 27 feet apart from one another.

r uc«le-o>lumiia stood in 7 rows, were each 41

■. rurb, and 9 feet in girth. Light and air

re admitted into the building through apertures

ne aide walls. Tlie founder of the palace was

< -. - Meuephthab, of the 18th dynasty; but one reign

cannot have sufficed fur building so gigantic a court,

and we know indeed not only that many of the

historical bas-relief* which cover the walls were

contributed by his son Barneses II., but also tlnit

the latter added to the Great Hall, on its NW.

side, a vast hypetbral court, 27S feet in breadth,

by 329 in length. This, like the hall, had a

double row of columns down its centre, anil »

covered corridor round its sides. Four gateways

opening to the four quarters gave admission into

this court: and to the principal one which fronted

the Nile an avenue of cric-sphinxes led up, headed

by two granite statues of Rameses II.

The purpose for which these spacious courts and

their annexed halls and esplanades were erected was

perhaps partly religious, and partly secular. Though

the kings of the 18th and succeeding dynasties had

ceased to be chief-priests, they still retained many

ceremonial functions, and the sacred calendar of

Aegypt abounded in days of periodical meetings for

religiousobjecta. At such paneyyries the priests alone

were a host, and the people were not excluded. Front

the sculptures also it appears that the Court of Royal

Palaces was the place where troops were reviewed,

embassies received, captives executed or distributed,

and the spoils or honours of victory apportioned.

Both temple* and palaces also served occasionally for

the encampment of soldiers and the administration

of justice. The temperature of the Thebaid ren­

dered vast spaces indispensable for the congregation

of numbers, and utility as well as pomp may have

combined in giving their colossal scale to the struc­

tures of the Pharaohs.

In the Great Hall a great number of the columns

are still erect. The many which have fallen have

been undermined by water loosening the soil below:

and they fall the more easily, because the archi­

trave! of the roof no longer hold them upright.

The most costly materials were employed iu some

parts of the palace. Cornices of the finest marble

were inlaid with ivory mouldings or sheathed with

beaten gold.

These were the principal structures of the eastern

moiety of Thebes: but other drotnoi and gateways

stand within the circuit of its walls, and by their

sculptures or inscriptions attest that the Macedonian

as well as the native rulers extended, renovated, or

adomed the capital of the Vpper Country. The

eastern branch of the dromos which connects Lunr

with Karnak appears from its remains to have

been originally 500 feet in length, and coin-

posed of a double row of ram-headed lions 58 in

number. The loftiest of Aegyptian portals stand*

at its SW. extremity. It is 64 feet high, but

without the usual pyramidal propyla. It is indeed

a work of the Greek era, and was raised by Ptolemy

Euergetes I. Kamesca 1V. and Kainesea Nil I. added

temples and a dromos to the city. Nor was TlicU*

without its benefactors even bo late as the era of the

Roman Caesars. The name of Tiberius was inscribed

on one of its temples; and Hadrian, while engaged in

his general survey of the Empire, directed some re­

pairs or additions to be made u> the temple of Zcus-

Ammon. That Thebes, as Herodotus and Diodorus

saw it, stood upon the site and incorporated the

remains of a yet more ancient city, is rendered pro­

bable by its sudden expansion under the lHth

dynasty of tho Pharaohs, as well as by extant hpeci-

mens of its architecture, more iu affinity with the

monuments S. of the cataracts than with the proper

Aegyptiau style. It seems hardly questionable that

4 l> 4

