ITALIA. 89 ITALIA.

and Bruttians, the latter of whom now occur for the

first time in Roman history (Liv. Epit xii.); but cir­

cumstances soon arose which led the Romans to de­

clare war against the Tarentines; and these called in

the assistance of Pyrrhus, king of Epirus. The war

with that monarch (the first in which the Romans

were engaged with any non-Itaiian enemy) was at

the same time decisive of the fate of the Italian

pnihuula. It was, indeed, the last struggle of the

nations of Southern Italy against the power of

Rime: on the side of Pyrrhus were ranged, besides

the Tarentines and their mercenaries, the Samnites,

Lncanians, and Bruttians; while the Latins, Cam-

ptnian;, Sabines, Umbrians, Volscians, Marrucini,

Pelijrni, and Frentani, are enumerated among the

troops which swelled the ranks of the Romans.

(Moots, ix. Fr. Didot.) Hence, the final defeat of

Prrrhus near Berjeventum (b. c. 275) was speedily

fjlowed by the complete subjugation of Italy. Ta­

n-mom fell into the hands of the Romans in B. c.

272. and, in the same year, the consuls Sp. Carvilius

and I'apirins Cursor celebrated the last of the many

Uoman triumphs over the Samnites, as well as the

Lncanians and Bruttians. Few particulars have

been transmitted to us of the petty wars which fol­

lowed, and served to complete tbe conquest of the

peninsula. The Piccntes, who were throughout the

Samnite wars on friendly terms with Rome, now

appear for the first time as enemies; but they were

defeated and reduced to submission in B. c. 268.

Tlie subjection of the Salleutines followed, B. c.

266, and the same year records the conquest of the

Sarsinateg, probably including the other mountain

tribes of the Umbrians. A revolt of the Volsinians,

in the following year (b. c. 265), apparently arising

out of civil dissensions, gave occasion to the last of

tiiese petty wars, and earned for that people the

credit of being the last of the Italians that sub-

untied to the Romsui power. (Floras, LSI.)

It was not till long after that the nations of

Xortbern Italy shared the same fate. Cisalpine

Gaul and Ligurbk were still regarded as foreign

provinces; and, with the exception of the Senones,

whose territory haul been already reduced, none of

the Gaulish nations had been assailed in their own

abides. In b. c. 232 the distribution of the " Gal-

li'us ager" (the territory of the Senones) became

the occasion of a great and formidable war, which,

fcmeTer, ultimately ended in the victory of the

hutnans, who immediately proceeded to plant the

two colonies of Placentia and Cremona in tho ter­

ritory of the Gauls, b. c. 213. The history of

this war, as well as of those which followed, is

folly related under Gallia Cisalpisa. It may

here suffice to mention, that the final conquest of

tbe Boii, in B. c. 191, completed the subjection of

Gaul, south of the Padus; and that of the Trans-

paaaoe Gauls appears to have been accomplished

mm after, though there is some uncertainty as to

tbe exact period. The Venetians had generally

been the allies of the Romans during these contests

■ i'.h the Gauls, and appear to have passed gradually

a»i quietly from the condition of independent allies

t> that of dependents, and ultimately of subjects.

The Istrians, on the contrary, were reduced by force

«f arms, and submitted in B. c. 177. The last

pbple of Italy that fell under the yoke of Rome

were the Librarians. This hardy race of moun­

taineers was not subdued till after a long series of

campaigns; and, while the Roman arms were over­

throwing the Mated idan and Syrian empires in the

East, they were still constantly engaged in an inglo­

rious, but arduous, struggle with the Ligurians, on

their own immediate frontiers. Strabo observes, that

it cost them eighty years of war to secure the coast­

line of Liguria for the space of 12 stadia in width

(iv. p. 203); a statement nearly correct, for the first

triumph over the Ligurians was celebrated in b. c.

236, and the last in b. c. 158. Even after this last

period it appears to have been a long time before

the people were finally reduced to a state of tran­

quillity, and lapsed into the condition of ordinary

Roman subjects.

2. Italy under the Romans. — It would be a

great mistake to suppose that the several nations

of Italy, from the periods at which they successively

yielded to the Roman arms and acknowledged the

supremacy of the Republic, became her subjects, in

the strict sense of the word, or were reduced under

any uniform system of administration. The rela­

tions of every people, and often even of every city,

with the supreme head, were regulated by special

agreements or decrees, arising out of the circum­

stances of their conquest or submission. How various

and different these relations were, is sufficiently seen

by the instances of the Latins, the Campanians, and

the Hernicans, as given in detail by Livy (viii. 11

—14, ix. 43). From the loss of the second decade

of that author, we are unfortunately deprived of all

similar details in regard to the other nations of

Italy; and hence our information as to the relations

established between them and Rome in the third

century B, c, and which continued, with little

alteration, till the outbreak of the Social War, b. c.

90, is unfortunately very imperfect We may, how­

ever, clearly distinguish two principal classes into

which the Italians were then divided; those who

possessed the rights of Roman citizens, and were

thus incorporated into the Roman state, and those

who still retained their separate national existence

as dependent allies, rather than subjects properly so

called. The first class comprised all those com­

munities which had received, whether as nations or

separate cities, the gift of the Roman franchise; a

right sometimes conferred as a boon, but often also

imposed as a penalty, with a view to break up more

effectually the national spirit and organisation, and

bring the people into closer dependence upon the

supreme authority. In these cases the citizenship

was conferred without the right of suffrage; but in

most, and perhaps in all such instances, the latter

privilege was ultimately conceded. Thus we find

the Sabines, who in b. c. 290 obtained only the

"civitas sine suffragio," admitted in B. c. 268 to

the full enjoyment of the franchise (Veil. Pat. i.

14): the same was the case also, though at a much

longer interval, with Formiae, Fundi, and Arpinuni,

which did not receive the right of suffrage till B. c.

188 (Liv. viii. 41, x. 1, xxxviii. 36), though they

had Ijnrnc the title of Roman citizens for more than

a century. To the same class belonged those of the

Roman colonies which were called "coloniao civinm

Romanorum," and which, though less numerous and

powerful than the Latin colonies, were scattered

through all parts of Italy, and included some wealthy

and important towns. (A list of them is given by

Madvig,de Coloniis, pp.295—303, and by Marquardt,

Handb. der Jtomiichm Alterthiimer, vol. iii. pt. i.

p. 18.)

To the second class, the " Socii" or "Civitates

Fiiederatae," which, down to the period of the Social

War, included by far the largest part of the Italian

