PALAESTINA. PALAESTINA.

Jordan vnd die Besckifiung des Todten Mceres* ein

Vorlrag, tfc, 1850. The original documents, from

which these are chiefly compiled, are:—Comte de

Berton, in the Bulletin de la Soc. Geog. de Paris,

tijin. xii. 18."i9, pp. 166, &c, with chart; Kussegger,

Jieisen in Eitropa, Asian, Afrika, &c, vol. Hi. Stutt­

gart. 1847, pp. 102—109, 132—134; Herr von

Wildcnbruch, Monatsherichte de GetelUchaft fur

£rdhmde zu Berlin, 1845, 1846.)

IV. The Dead Ska.

Of all tin? natural phaenomena of Palestine, the

Ik-ad Sea is that which has most attracted the notice

of geographers and naturalists both in ancient and

modern times, as exhibiting peculiarities and sug­

gesting questions of great interest in a geological

point of view.

Xauies.—The earliest allusion to this sea, which,

according to the prevailing theory, refers to its ori­

ginal formation, is found in the book of Genesis

(xiv. 3), where it is identified with the vale "of

Siddim," and denominated ''the Salt Sea" (7) 3a-

Aaatja. TWV a\u>v, LXX.); comp. Numb, xxxiv.

3, 12); which Suit Sea is elsewhere identified with

"the sen of the plain'' (Dcut. iii. 17, iv. 40; Josh.

iii. 16, xii. 3), SaAaarra "A^a^ci, LXX.; t ailed by the

prophets Joel (ii. 2l»). Zuehariah (xiv. 8), and K/.e-

kiel (xlvii. 18), the "former," or "eastern sea."

Its common name among the classical authors, first

found in Diodorus Siculus (inf. cit.), and adopted by

Joseph us, is '' Asphaltitis Lacus" (aaQaAriTis

AfV'T))' or simply i; 'At^oAt'itii. The name by

which it is best known among Eun>|>cans has the

authority of Justin (xxxvi. 3. § 6) and Pausanias

(v. 7. § 4), who call it ftdXaaaa j) vtKpd, " Mortuum

Mare." Its modern native name is liahr Lit,

"the Sea of Lot,"—therein jH'rpetuating tho me­

morial of the catastrophe to which it may owe its

formation, or by which it is certain that its features

were considerably altered and modified. The name

assigned it by Strabo must be referred to a slip of

the author; for it is too much to assume with Fal­

coner that the geographer had written 2o5iSutjs

\iujt), when all the copies read SfpsWts A.

So copious are the mt>derii notices of this remark­

able inland sea, that it would be vain to attempt

even an abridgment of them; and the necessity lor

doing so is in great measure superseded by the late

successful surveying expedition, conducted by Lieut.

Lynch of the American navy, whose published nar­

rative lias set at rest many questions connected

with its physical formation. The principal ancient

writers will be quoted in detail and in chrono­

logical order, that it may appear how far they have

borrowed one from another, or may be regarded as

independent witnesses. Their notices will then be

substantiated or controverted by modem writers. The

questions relating to the formation of the sea, its

volcanic origin, and the other igneous phaenomena

iu the country, wiil be reserved for anuther chap­

ter.

The earliest extant writer who has noticed at any

length the marvels of the Dead Sea, is Diodorus

Siculus (b. u. 45), who has twice described it; first

in his geographical survey of the country (ii. 48),

and subsequently in his account of the expedition

of Demetrius against the Nabataei (xix. 98), to

which last account a few particulars are added,

which were omitted in the earlier book.

"We ought not to i>aNs over the character of lids

lake (Asphaltites) unmentioncd. It is situated in

the midst of the satrapy of Idunmea, in n-

tending about 500 stadia, and in breadth il>iu: (&

Its water is very salt, and of an extrerrelT &,u< a

smell, so that neither fish nor any of tlw «ss

ordinary marine animals can live in it: andii:b-.n

great rivers remarkable for their sw«:nr>s r.%

into it, yet by its smell it counteract* tbeir

From the centre of it there rises ererr year i Ur?

mass of solid bitumen, sometimes more than '.

plethra in size, sometimes a little less tha* to

plethrum.* For this reason the neigliU^unns a

barians usually call the greater, bull, and the lew

calf. The bitumen floating on the surtarecf u

water appears at a distance like an island. "D

time of the rising of the bitumen is known *lw

twenty days before it takes place; for aroor-d U

lake to the distance of several stadia the srr,til ■

the bitumen spreads with a noxious air, and slit!

stiver, gold, and brass in the neighbourhuui lcseai

proper colour; which, however, returns again u w

as all the bitumen is ejected. The fire which bae

beneath the ground and the stench reiser the i

habitants of the neighbouring country sickly t

very short-lived. It is nevertheless wt-11 fitted I

the cultivation of palms, wherever it is traversed

serviceable rivers or fountains available for tlw pi

poses of irrigation. In a neighbouring vaiWT

the plant called balsam, which yields an abaai

income, as the plant grows in no other pan ct I

world, and it is much used by physician ■

medicine.

"The bitumen which rises to the surface i* i

ried off by the inhabitants of both sides of lb* a

who are hostilely inclined towards each other. 11

carry away the bitumen in a singular manner *i

out boats: they construct large rafts of reeds, «f

they launch into the lake. Upon each of these

more than three can sit, two of whom row wim <

attached to the raft, and the third, armed wit

bow, drives off those who are sailing up froa

opposite side, or who venture to use violence;

when they come near to the bitumen they leai t

with axes in their hands, and. cutting it iik*

stone, they lade their raft, and then return. U

raft break and any one fall off. even though be:

be unable to swim, he does not bink aa is d

water, but floats as well as one who couid

for this water naturally supports any weight aq

of expansion, or which contains air. but do4 i

substances, which have a density like that <rf |

silver, and lead, and the like; but ever t

sink much more slowly in this water tfcaa

would if they were thrown into any other I

This source of wealth the barbarians powers

they transport it into Egypt and there sell it $fl

purposes of embalming the dead ; for nnte*

bitumen is mixed with the other spices, lbs 'J

will not long remain undecayed.'*

It has tx*en mentioned that Straho (or. i

14) describes it under the name of Sirfcuoi* li

a palpable confusion, as regards the name. w*ti

salt lake on the eastern confines oi" Kgypi [i*M

Lacus], as is evident faun his, statement tl

stretched along the sea-coast, as weil sa ir%a

length which he assigns it, corresjojtding a* a

with the 200 stadia given by l>iodoro* Son)

the length of the true Sirbonis Laraa, whr=L<

author properly places between CoriesTT.%

* In book ii he Bays the smaller ma^es

tico plethra iu size.

