PEBUSIA. 579

was anal district; though is later times the name

»t» applatd generally to the subject* of the great

Lev. shot* empire extended, aoder Dareius the son

4 iititatpM. from India to the Mediterranean. In

*» earliest lima* of the Old Testament they are  
«s natkned by name as a distinct people, and

■sea, a the baler days of the eaptirity, their name

ennu they mast be taken as the inhabitants of the

na: enpire above noticed {Estk. xxxriii. 5; Ettk.

U; xSera, rr. 3; 1 Uaocab. i. 1, etc), and not

i»|«y of the muted district of Penis. According

'Hiradntas, the ancient people were divided into

n baiting classes, warriors, hnsbandmen, and

■tarn. In the first class, the Pasargsdae, Ma-

sju. and Maspii, were the most important sub-

vtswsul The Ai li—nsiialai t from whom their

li-caown bne of kings descended, was one of the

aaiss af the Pasargsdae. The tribes of husband-

si Ban the names of Panthialaei, Dernsiaei and

raaao; (hose of the nomades were called, Dai,

na. braced and Sagartii. (Herod. L 125 ) It is

sc ha this account that Herodotus is describing

sc was the state of the Persae but a little while

baa Bat on times, and that his view embraces a

"TMT far mors extensive than that of the small

laaa of* Persia. We must suppose, from his notice

that he extended the Persian

able portion of what is now called

■.- sauced, over much of the conntry which

day farms the realm of Persia. In

. after tsnass, other tribes or subdivisions are met

... ai the Paraetaoeni. Messabalae, htahaei, Suzaei,

as^baci, dec ttc Herodotus states further that

oast aauent same of the people was Artaei

asal Tit. 61), a farm which modern philology has

aa ts ha m csoss connection with that of toe

k the earliest title of their immediate neighbours,

Medea* Both alike are derived from the old

■ sad Sauaacrit Arya, signifying a people of noble

aat. a Bastes still preserved in the modern J'rak

ataV (Mu!>r.-/'i«ra. Amat iii. p. 299: Lassen,

Aturii. is. a. 7.) There can be no doubt that the

■ i'i mi is itself of Indian origin, the earliest

1-a whsch it is found oa the cuneiform inscrip-

i .war /Vast (Lassen, Alt-Pert. KeU-lntcr.

M

Is Persian poofle stem to hare been in all

I acsjsi f-w tike pride and haughtiness of their

Bar* (Aeacfcyi. Pert. 795; Asm Marc, xxiii.

sal, as spate <af this habit of boasting, in their

V aeatearj. aadur Cyms and his irnnwdiate sue-

as. they aappear to bar* made excellent soldiers,

aans arambes folly the arms and aecuutre-

archers, and lancers of

(vis. 61), on which description

Uptons at Persepolis afford a

(Of. also Strab. xv. p. 734;

Car ay vi. 3. § SI.) Their cavalry also was

am (Hcrcd- L c ix. 79, 81; Xen. Cyn>p. vi.

|k farmr*-. wbto for the most part confines

ssjs* est Pasaass to the inhabitants of Persia,

My eVasjihaJ same of the manners and cus-

sf lata sjssifts Oa the subject of tlieir re-

Heradetos and Strabo are not at

ra law

writer gives separate and uneon-

TL* geoerai eancluaion to be drawn

motes* ages, the Persians were pure

f-w4 that by degrees they adopted

a characteristic of tlieir

the IHsalistic arrangement of two

a of good sad evil, Iiormuzd and

Ahriman. (Strab. xv. p. 727—736; Herod, i. 33,

133; Xen. Cyrop. i. 22.) Many of their ancient

religious customs have continued to the present day;

the fire-worshippers of India still contending that

they are the lineal descendants of the ancient

Persians. Tlie language of the ancient people was

strictly Indo-Germanic, and was nearly connected

with the classical Sanscrit: the earliest specimens of

it are the cuneiform inscriptions at Mur</h<ib,— the

site of Pasargada, and the place where Cyrus was

buried,—and those of Dareius and Xerxes at Perse­

polis and Behistdn, which have been deciphered by

Colonel Kawlinson and Professor Lassen. (Kawlinson,

Joum. A s. Soc vol. x.; Lassen, Zeittchriftf. Mor~

gad. vi. 1; Hitsig, Grabtchrifl d. Darmt, Zurich,

1847; Benfey, Pa-t-Keil-Intcrift, Leipzig, 1847.)

The government of Persia was a rigid monarchy.

Their kings lived apart from their subjects in well

secured palaces {Estk. iv. 2, 6), and rejoiced in

great parks (aapdScnroi), well stocked with game

and animals for the chase {Cyrop. i. 3. § 14, viii. 1.

§ 38, ;4na6. i. 2. § 7; Curt. viii. 1. § 11), and

passed (in later times, when tlieir empire was most

widely extended) tlieir summer at Krbatana, tlieir

spring at Sosa, and their winter at Babylon. (Nehtm.

i. 1; Da*, viii. 2; Etlk. i. 2, S; Xen. Anab. iii. 5.

§ 15, Cyrop. viii. 6. § 22.) Like other eastern

monarchs, the Persian kings possessed a well ap­

pointed harem, many curious details of which we

gather from the history of Esther (cf. also Curt,

iii. § 3; A then. xiii. p. 557; Plat Arlax. c 43);

and they were accustomed to receive from their sub­

jects direct adoration (TpoirKoeuois), as the pre­

sumed descendants or representatives of Hormuzd.

(Pint Themut. c. 7; Curt, vi 6. § 2, viii. 5. § 6.)

Their local government was a pure despotism; but

| in souie extraordinary cases a sort of privy council

| was called of the seven chief princes, who stood

around the royal throne, like the Amshaspands round

the throne of Iiormuzd. (Herod, vii. 8, viii. 67;

Etth. i. 14, 19, vii. 14.) Whatever document li.nl

once passed the king and had been sealed by the

royal signet was deemed irrevocable. (Ettk. L 19,

viii. 8; Dan. vi. 9, 16; cf. also Cbardin, Voy. iii.

418.) Over the individual provinces—w hich in the

time of Dareius were said to hare been twenty in

number (Her. iii. 89), but were subsequently much

more numerous {Etth. i. 1), probably from the sub­

division of the larger ones—were placed satrap,

whose business it was to superintend them, to collect

the revenues, snd to attend to the progress of agricul­

ture, (Her. iii. 69, 97; Joseph. Ant. xi. 3, &c.)

Between the satraps and tlie kings was a well or­

ganised system of couriers, who were called Htyyatm

orsVTov&ulPlut. Fort. Alex. vii. p. 294, ed. Beiskr),

who conveyed their despatches from station testation

on horses, and had the power, when necessary, to press

horses, boats, and even men into their service. As

this Mike was very irksome and oppressive, the

word ayyaptvtw came to mean compulsion or de­

tention under other circumstances. (Joseph. Ant.

xiii. 2. § 3; Etth. iii. 13, 15,viii. 10, 14; Bentley's

Mewmdtr, p. 66.)

The history of the Persian empire need not be

repeated here, as it is given under the names of the

respective kings in the Diet of Biogr. [V.]

PERTU'SA, a town of the llergrtes in Hisjmnia

Tarraconeiisis, which still exists under the old name

on the Alcanadre. (/(ra. Aut. p. 391.) [T.H.D.]

PERU'SIA(flrnooo-ia: Eth.Perusinus; J'ervgin),

one of the most important and powerful cities of

P V 2

