UMBRIA. 1315 U.MRRIA.

From the month of the litter stream the frontier moat

hare followed an irregular line extending to the cen­

tral range of the Apennines, so as to include the upper

valleys of the Sapis and Bed eg is; thence it rejoined

the line alrradj traced from the sources of the Tiber.

All ancient authors agree in representing the Um-

brians as the most ancient people of Italy (Plin.

iii. 14. s. 19; Flor. i. 17; Dion vs. i. 19), and the

traditions generally received described tliem as ori­

ginally spread over a much more extensive region

than that which ultimately retained their name, and

occupying the whole tract from sea to sea, including

the territories subsequently wrested from them by

the Etruscans. That people, indeed, was repre­

sented as gaining possession of its new settlements

step by step, and as having taken not less than 300

towns from the Uinbrians. (Flin. L c.) This num­

ber is doubtless fabulous, but there seems to be good

for regarding the fact of the conquest as his-

Herodotus, in relating the Lydian tradition

•rsing the emigration of tho Tyrrhenians, repre­

sents the land as occupied, at the time of their ar­

rival, by the Umbrians. (Herod, i. 94.) The tra­

ditions reported by Uionysius concerning the settle­

ments of the Pelasgians in Italy, all peint to the

same result, and represent the Umbrians as extending

at one period to the neighbourhood uf Spina on the

Adriatic, and to the mouths of the Fadus. (Dionvs.

i. 16—20.) In accordance with this we learn in­

cidentally from Pliny that Butrium. a town not far

from Raveuna, was of L'mbrian origin. (Plin. iii.

15. a. 80.) The name uf the river Umbro (0m-

brcmt), on the coast of Etruria, was also in all pro­

bability a relic of their dominion in that part of

Italy. On the whole we may fairly assume as a

historical fact, the existence of the Uinbrians at a

very early period as a great and powerful nation in

the northern naif of Central Italy, whuee dominion

extended from sea to sea, and comprised the fertile

districts on both sides of the Apennines, as well as

tlie mountains themselves. According to Zonodotus

of Truexem (ap. Dionys. ii. 49), the powerful race of

the Sabines itself was only a branch or offshoot

uf the Umbrians; and this statement Li to a great

extent confirmed by the result of recent philolo­

gical researches. [Sabiki]

If the Umbrians are thus to be regarded as one of

the most ancient of the races established in Italy,

the question as to their ethnological affinities be­

comes of peculiar interest and importance. Unfortu­

nate!/ it is one which we can answer but very im-

i*?rfectly. The ancient authorities upon this point

are of little value. Most writers, indeed, content

themselves with stating that they were the most

ancient people uf Italy, and apparently consider them

u Aborigines. This was distinctly staled by Zeno-

dotus of Troezen, who hsd written a special history

if the Umbrian peojde (Dionys. ii. 49); and the same

dca was probably conveyed by the fanciful Greek

irrmology that they were colled Ombrieans or Um-

M-iam, because they had survived the deluge caused

•j floods of rain (jufiuoi; Plin. iii. 14. s. 19).

Mine writers, however, of whom the earliest seems

o hare been one Boccbus. frequently quoted by So-

.nua, represented the Umbrians as of Gaulish origin

>olin, 2. § II; Serv. ad Am. xii. 758; Isidor.

'rig. ix. 2); and the same view has been maintained

iy several modern writers, as the result of philolo-

icat inquiries. Researches of this latter kind have

nrfeed of late years thrown much light npnn the

of the Umbrian language, of which we

possess an Important monument in the celebrated

tables of Igurium. [Iouvii-m.] They have clearly

established, on the one hand its distinctness from the

language of the neighbouring Etruscans, on the other

its close affinity with the Oscan, as spoken by the

Sabellian tribes, and with the old Latin, so that

the three may fairly be considered as only dialects

of one and the same family of languages. !nm,

p. 86.] The same researches tend to prove that

the Umbrian is the most ancient of these cognate

dialects, thus confirming the assertions of ancient

writers concerning the great antiquity of the nation.

Hut, while they prove beyond a doubt that the Um­

brian, as well as the nearly related Oscan and Latin,

was a branch of the great Indo-Teutonic family,

they show also that the three formed to a great ex­

tent a distinct branch uf that family or an independent

group of languages, which cannot with propriety

be assigned to the Celtic group, any more than to

the Teutonic or Slavonic

The history of the Umbrians is very imperfectly

known to us. The traditions of their power and

greatness all point to a very early period; and it is

certain that after the occupation of Etruria as well

as of the plains of the Padus by the Etruscans,

the Uinbrians shrunk up into a comparatively ob­

scure mountain people. Their own descendants the

Sabines also occupied the fertile districts about Reate

and the valley of the Vclinus, which, according to

the traditions reported by Dionysius, had originally

been held by the Umbrians, but had been wrested

from them by the Pelasgians (Dionys. ii. 49.) At

a much later period, but still before the name of the

Umbrians appears in Roman history, Uiey had been

expelled by the Senonian Gauls from the region on

tho shures of the Adriatic. Livy indeed represents

them as having previously held also a part of the

territory which was subsequently occupied by the

Boians, and from which they were driven by the in­

vasion of that people (Liv. v. 35).

It was not till the Romans had carried their arms

beyond the immediate neighbourhood of the city,

and penetrated beyond the barrier of the Ciminian

forest, that they came into contact with the Um­

brians. Their first relations were of a friendly

nature. The consul Fabius having sent secret en­

voys through the land of the neighbouring Etruscans

into Umbria, received from the tribe of the Camertea

|>romisesof support and assistance if he should reach

their country. (Liv. ix. 36.) But the Umbrian

people seem to have been divided into different tribes,

which owned no common government and look differ­

ent lines of policy. Some of these tribes made common

cause with the Etruscans and shared in their defeat

by Fabius. (/6 37.) This disaster was followed

by two other defeats, which were sustained by the

Umbrians alone, and the second of these, in which

their combined forces were overthrown by the consul

Fabius near Mevauia (n c. 308), appears to have

been a decisive blow. It was lollowed. we are told,

by the submission of all the Umbrian tribes, of

whom the people of Ocriculnm were received into

the Roman alliance on peculiarly favourable terms.

(Liv. ix. 39, 41.)

r'rom this time we hear no more of hostilities with

the Umbrians, with the exception of an expedition

against a mere marauding tribe of mountaineers

(Liv. x. I), till B. c. 2U6. when the Samiiite trailer

Gellius E^uatius succeeded in organising a eeneral

confederacy against Rome, in which the Uu.brians

Gauls took part, as well as the Etrus­

4 p 2

