LUCANIA. LUCANIA. 209

the Samnitcs, preserved a hostile attitude when all

liic other nations of Italy had already submitted and

revived the Human franchise. (Appian, B. C. i.

39, 51. 53.) In the civil war between Marios and

Sulla, which immediately followed, the Lucanians, as

well as the Samnitcs, actively espoused the cause

of the Marian party, and a Lucanian legion fought

in [he great battle at the Colline Gale. They in

cimsequence were exposed to the full vengeance of

the conqueror; and Lucania, as well as Samnium,

wa* laid waste by Sulla in a manner that it never

recovered. The remaining inhabitants were admitted

to the Roman citizenship, and from this time the

I.rjcanians ceased to be a people, and soon lost all

traces of distinct nationality. (Appian, IS. C. i. 90

—9.1, 96; Strab. vL pp. 253, 254.)

Of Lucania under the Roman government we

bur but little; but it is certain that it had fallen

into a state of complete decay. The Greek cities on

iii coasts, once so powerful and flourishing, had

innk into utter insignificance, and the smaller towns

of the interior were poor and obscure places. (Strab.

i c.) Nor is there any appearance that it ever re­

ndered from this state of depression under the

liirnan Kinpire. The Liber Colotiiarum mentions

only eight towns in the whole province, and all

of these were in the subordinate condition of "prae-

ferturae." {Lib. Colon, p. 209.) The malaria

which now desolates its coasts, must have begun to

ict a* soon as the population had disappeared; and

the monntain region of the interior was apparently

then, u at the present day, one of the wildest regions

of Italy. Large tracts were given up to pasture,

while extensive forests afforded subsistence to vast

brnls of swine, the flesh of which formed an import-

aril part of the supplies of the Imperial City. The

mountain forests were also favourite resorts of wild

bars, and Contained abundance of bears, which were

sent from thence to the amphitheatres at Koine.

(Hot. Sot ii. 3. 234, 8. 6; Martial, de Spect. 8;

Van. I.. !,'.. i 100.) Lucania was comprised

together with Bruttium in the third region of

Augustus, and the two provinces continued to be

uniied for administrative purposes throughout the

period of the Roman Empire. Even after the fall

af the Western Empire, we meet with mention of the

"Corrector Lucaniae et Bruttiorum."

LtK-ania long continued to acknowledge the supre-

™<7 of the Eastern Emperors; and the modern

pntime of the Easilicata is supposed to have

dtroed its name from the emperor Basilius II. in the

lfth century. (I'lin. iii. 5. s. 10; A'of. Dign. ii.

a «4; Ore'll. Inter. 1074; Treb. Poll. Jetr. 24;

P. Ihac ii. 17; Cassiod. Var. iii. 8, 46.)

The physical characters of Lucania are almost

wholly determined by the chain of the Apennines,

which enters at its northern frontier, and from thence

tartrses the province in its whole extent. These

ttMmtains form a lofty group or knot immediately

en the frontiers of Samnium, and from thence the

taaio chain is continued nearly due S. to the

fraWim of Bruttium; a little before reaching which,

it rises again into the very lofty group of Monte

JVIiao, the highest summit of which attains an

Nation of above 7000 feet. Throughout its course

this chain approaches considerably nearer to the

waten than the eastern coast; but it is not till after

r*»i»t the frontier of Bruttium that it becomes a

oaf^lete littoral chain, as it continues for a ccn-

■aWmile distance. In the more northern part of

LxiiiU the space between the central chain and

VOL IL

the Tyrrhenian sea is almost filled up with ranges

of lofty and rugged mountains, leaving only here

and there a small strip of plain on the tea-coast:

but towards the eastward, the mountains sink much

more gradually as they approach the gulf of Tareri-

tum,constituting long ranges of hills, which gradually

subside into the broad strip of plain that borders tho

gulf the whole way from the mouth of the Siris

(Sinno) to that of tho Bradanus. It is this tract of

plain, in many places marshy, and now desolate and

unhealthy, that was celebrated in ancient times for

its almost matchless fertility. (Archiloch. up. A then.

xii. 25,) South of the river Siris. the offshoots of

the Apennines, descending from the lofty group of

Monte Pollmo as a centre, again approach close to

the shore, filling up the greater part of the space

between the mouth of the Siris and that of the

Crathis; but once more receding as they approach

the latter river, so as to leave a considerable tract of

fertile plain bordering its banks on both sides.

The lofty group of mountains just noticed as situ­

ated on the frontiers of Lucania and Samnium, sends

down its waters towards both seas, and is the source

of the most considerable rivers of Lucania. Of these

the Silarus (Seta) flows to the gulf of Paestum,

receiving in its course the waters of the Taxageii

{Tanagro) and Cai-or {Colore'), both considerable

streams, which join it from the S. On the other

side, the Bradanus (Brtulano), which rises to the

N. of Potentia, and the Casuentus (Batiento),

which has its source in the Monti delia Maddaletia,

a little to the S. of the same town, flow to the SK.,

and pursue a nearly parallel course the whole way

to the gulf of Tarentum. The AciRts (Agri) and

the Siris (.SVnno), which rise in the central chain

further to the S., have also a general SE. direction,

and flow to the gulf of Tarentum. The Crathis,

further down the same coast, which forms near its

mouth the limit between Lucania and Bruttium,

belongs in the greater part of its course exclusively

to the latter country. But the Sybaris, now the

Coscile, a much less considerable stream, immediately

to the N. of tin1 Crathis, belongs wholly to Lucania.

The AcALANDitts (Calandro), which falls into the

sea between the Sybaris and the Siris, is a vevy

trifling stream. On the W. coast of Lucania, the only

river, besides the Silarus and its tributaries, worthy

of notice, is the Laiis, or Lao, which forms tho

southern boundary of Lucania on this side. Tim

Pyxus (Awenfo), flowing by the town of the same

name (Baxentum), is but a trifling stream; anil the

Melphes (Molpa), which enters the sea by the pro­

montory of Palinnrus, though noticed by Pliny (iii. 5.

s. 10), is not more considerable. The Hkles or

Elees, which gave name to Elea or Velia, is some­

what more important, but by no means a large

stream. [Velia.]

The western coast of Lucania is marked by several

bold and prominent headlands, formed by the ridges

of the Apennines, which, as already stated, here de­

scend quite to the sea, and end abruptly on the coast.

The most northern of these, forming the southern

limit of the extensive gulf of Paestum, is called by

Lycophron Enipeus, but was more commonly known

as the Posidium or Posidonium Promontorinin.

S. of this was the more celebrated promontory of

Palinurus, still called Cajx> di Palinwo, with a

port of the same name; and beyond this, again, tho

promontory of Pyxus (now Capo degli Infreiehi),

which bounds the Culf of J'olicaetro on the W.

Viewed on a larger scale, these three headlands may

r

