OENIADAE. 46; OENOANDA.

tiki uto took; but after holding it for a year,

tary nre itUcxed by the Acarnanians and com-

fU to ahead™ the town. (Paus. iv. 25.) Geni­

al* a repreuoted at that time as an enemy of

.tins. »lith is said to hare been one of the rca-

mu that induced the Mcssenians to attack the

Twenty-three years before the Peloponnesian

*Ws.c. 434) Pericles laid siege to the town, but  
n mtfe to take it. (Tbuc. L 111 j Diod. xi. 85.)

li i» PdopGBDesian War, Oeniadae still continued

■Xiwd to the Athenians, and was the only Aear-

uui ton, with the exception of Astacus, which

u>d with the Lacedaemonians. In the third year

■'■itwar (429) Phormion made an expedition into

Aa-Tana to secure the Athenian ascendancy : hut

twti be took Astacus, he did not continue to

ra-rjj anion Oeniadae, because it was the winter,

a rcjeh Mason the marshes secured the town from

al attack. Ib the following year (428) his son

kpv uflei up the Achelous, and ravaged the

term; of Oeniadae; but it was not till 424 that

fentteia, assisted by all the other Acarnanians,

the town to join the Athenian alliance.

Iii. 7, iv. 77.) It continued to be a

r>: <f great importance during the Macedonian

ax Jem wars. In the time of Alexander the

the Aetolians, who had extended their do-

«the W. bank of the Achelous, succeeded

at ixaiaf possession of Oeniadae, and expelled its

kait'octi ia so cruel a manner that they were

fcr£*.ial with the vengeance of Alexander. (Diod.

Hki) Oeniadae remained in the hands of the

Jfiaa till 219, when it was taken by Philip,

■X' ' Macedonia, This monarch, aware of the

Jf*** of the place, strongly fortified the citadel,

M mmniieed uniting the harbour and the arsenal

*** '■«• citadel by means of walls. (Polyb. iv. 65.)  
I Ueaitdae, together with the adjacent Nesus

Ki w Xasus, was taken by the Romans, under

"sties Lsrrinas, and given to the Aetolians, who

via their allies; but in 189 it was restored to

karsaniuii by virtue of one of the conditions of

}*» Bade between the Romans and Aetolians in

(Pot ix. 39; Liv. xxtL 24; Polyb.

. Liv. xxxviii. 11.) From this period

disappears from history; but it continued

"-lis tie time of Stnbo (x. p. 459).

exact sile of Oeniadae was long a matter of

■ IXdwelJ and Gall supposed the ruins on

stem side of the Achelous to represent

hat tbe*e ruins are those of Pleuron.

•] The true position of Oeniadae has

£xed with certainty by Leake, and his

his been confirmed by Mure, who has since

the spot Its ruins are found at the modern

■■*»». on the W. hank of the Achelous, and

by morasses on every side. To the

•vaipj deepen into a reedy marsh or lake,

c leaata or Katokhi, and by the ancients

is tats lake is a small island, probably the

• « the Saws mentioned above. Thucydides

pate correct in his statement (ii. 102) that

» around the city were caused by the

he appears to take no notice of the

■ Heat, which afforded a much greater pro-

~ *• '•«• city than the Acheloas, and which has

with this river. The city occupied an

fn owdated hill, from the southern extremity

'^we stretches out a long slope in the di-

connecting the hill with the

Tt« eatire circuit of the fortifications still

exists, and cannot be much less than three miles.

The walls, which are chiefly of polygonal construc­

tion, are in an excellent state of preservation,

often to a height of from 10 to 12 feet. Towards

the hi. of the city was the port, communicating with

the sea by a deep river or creek running up through

the contiguous marsh to Petah on the coast

Leake discovered the ruins of a theatre, which

stood near the middle of the city ; hut the most in­

teresting remains in the place are its arched pos­

terns or sallyports, and a larger arched gateway

leading from the port to the city. These arched

gateways appear to be of great antiquity, and prove

that the arch was known in Greece at a much earlier

period than is usually supposed. Drawings of several

of these gateways are given by Mure. (Leake,

Northern Greece, vol. iii. p. 556, seq.; Mure,

Journal of a Tour in Greece, vol. i. p. 106, seq.;

see also, respecting the arches at Oeniadae, Leake,

Peloponnesiaca, p. 121.)

Strabo (x. p. 450) speaks of a town called Old

Ocnia (ij waAaia Oim«*), which was deserted in

his time, and which he describes as midway be­

tween Stratus and the sea. New Oenia (j) viv

OiWa), which he places 70 stadia above the mouth

of the Achelous, is the celebrated town of Oeniadae,

spoken of above. The history of Old Oenia is un­

known. Leake conjectures that it may possibly

have been Erysiche {'Epvalxyi^, which Stephanus

supposes to be the same as Oeniadae; hut this is a

mistake, as Strabo quotes the authority of the poet

Apollodorus to prove that the Erysichaei were a

people in the interior of Acamania. Leake places

Old Oenia at Palea Mani, where he found some

Hellenic remains. (Steph. B. t.v. OiVeidSai; Strab.

x. p. 460; Leake, Northern Greece, vol. iii. p. 524,

seq.)

2. A city of Thessaly, in the district Octaca

(Strab. ix. p. 434; Steph. B. a.».)

COIN OF OENIADAE.

OENIUS (Ofrios), also called Oenoe (OiwoV;,

Arrian, Peripl. Pont. Eux. p. 16), a small river of

Pontus, emptying itself into the Euxine, 30 stadia

east of the mouth of the Thoaria. (Anonym. Perip I.

Pont tux. p. 11.) [L. S.]

OENOANDA (OiVoaVJo), a town in the extreme

west of l'isidia. belonging to the territory of Cibyra,

with which and Balbura and Bubon it formed a

tetrapolis, a political confederacy in which each town

had one vote, while Cibyra had two. (Strab. xiii.

p. 631 ; Steph. B. t. v.; Liv. xxxviii. 37 ; Plin. v.

28; comp. Cibyra.) The town hi mentioned as late

as the time of Hierocles, who, however (p. 685),

calls it by the corrupt name of Enoanda. [L. S.]

* The MSS. of Strabo have Airalo, which Leake  
was the first to point out must be changed into

OiWa. Kramer, the latest editor of Strabo, has

inserted Leake's correction in the text.

II H 2

