384 MYGDONIA. MYLAE.

MYGD07HA(MtryooWa: Eth. MiySovtt, Steph.

B.), a district of Macedonia, which comprehended

the plains round Thessalonica, together with the

valleys of KILmli and Benikia, extending towards

the K. as far as the Axius (Herod, vii. 123), and

including the Lake Bolbe to the E. (Thuc. i. 58.)

To the N. it was joined by Crestonia, for the Echi-

dorus, which flowed into the gulf near the marshes

of the Axius, had its sources in Crcstonia (Herud.

vii. 124). while the pass of Aulon or Arcthusa

was probably the boundary of Mygdonia towards

Bis.iltia. The maritime part of Mygdonia formed

a district called Amphaxitis, a distinction which

first occurs in Polybius (v. 98), who divides all the

great plain at the head of the Thermaic gulf into

Amphaxitis and Botti.iea, and which is found three

centuries later in Ptolemy (iii. 13. § 36). The

latter introduces Amphaxitis twice under the sub­

divisions of Macedonia,—'in one instance placing

under that name the mouths of the Echidorus and

Axius, with Thessalonica as the only town, which

agrees with Polybius, and particularly with Strabo

(vii. p. 330). In the other place, Ptolemy includes

Stagura and Arethusa in Amphaxitis, which, if it

be correct, would indicate that a portion of Am­

phaxitis, very distant from the Axius, was separated

from the remainder by a part of Mygdonia; but as

this is improbable, the word is perhaps an error in

the text. The original inhabitants, the Mygdonians,

were a tribe belonging to the great Thracian race,

and were powerful enough to bequeath their name

to it, even after the Macedonian conquest, (Thuc.

ii. 99.) The cities of this district were Tiikssa-

I/OXICA, SlNlHJS, ClIALASTKA, Al.TL'S, STrtKPSA,

Cissus, Mblusurois, Heraci.f.ustks. Besides

these, the following obscure towns occur in Ptolemy

(/. c):—Cliaetae, Moryllus, Antigoneia, Calindaca,

Boerus. Pln>ea,Trepillus,Carabia, Xvlopolis, Assorus,

Lcte, Phileros. Attn the towns which occupied the

fertile plain between Mt. Cissus and the Axius, their

population was no doubt absorbed by Thessalonica, on

its foundation by Cassander, and remains of them are

not likely to be found; nor are the ancient references

sufficient to indicate their sites. One of these would

worn, from ancient inscriptions which were found at

Khairdt, to have stood in that position, and others

probably occupied similar positions on the last falls

of the heights which extend nearly from Khairdt

to the Axius. One in particular is indicated by

some largo '* tumuli" or barrows, situated at two-

thirds of that distance. (Leake, Sorth. Greece,

vol. iii. p. 448.) [E. B. J.]

MYGDONIA (Minima, Plat Luadl. c 32;

Polyb. v. 31), a district in the NE. part of Mesopo­

tamia, adjoining the country now called the Sinjar.

According to Strabo, tho people who were named

Mygdones came originally from Macedonia, and oc­

cupied the district extending from Zeugma to Tha-

pvicus (xvi. p. 747); as, however, he states in the

same place that Xisibis was called by the Mace­

donians " Antiocheia in Mygdonia," and places it in

the immediate neighbourhood of M. Masius, he

would appear to have thought that it was on the

eastern side of Mesopotamia. Plutarch relates the

U'nc story of the Greek name of Nisibis (LuculL

r. 32). In Stephanus Byx. the name is written

Mvx^ovia. which is probably an error. In many

of the earlier editions of Xenophon, a ]ieople are

spoken of who are called MoySdi'ioi; the later and

better editions read, however, Maptiii'toi, which is

nnxa probable (Anub. iv. 3. § 4). [Y.J

MYGDO'NTUS (M«r>*W, Julian. Oral. p. 27).

the river which flows by the town of Nisibis (now

Nuibin). It lakes its rise, together with the Kka-

biir and one or two other streams, in the M. Masius

(now Karja Baghlar). Its present name is tin

Hcrmei or S'ahr-al-lluali. [V.]

MYLAE (MuAoi: Eth. Mi/Aafrnt, Steph. B.;M»

Xaioi, Diod.: Milium), a city on the N. coast of Sicily,

about 30 miles from Cape Pelorns, and 20 from Tyn-

daris, though Strabo calls it 25 miles from each of

these points. (Strab. vi. p. 266.) It was situated

on the narrow neck or isthmus of a projecting pe­

ninsular headland, about 5 miles in length, the

furthest point of which is only about 15 miles from

the island of Hiera or Vulcano, the nearest to Sicily

of the Lipari islands. Mylae was undoubtedly a

Greek colony founded by the Zanckieans, and appears

to have long continued subject to, or dependent on

its parent city of Zancle. (Strab. vi. p. 272; Seym.

Ch. 2S8.) llcnce Thucydides speaks of Himera as

in his time the only Greek city on the N. coast of the

island, omitting Mylae, because it was not an inde­

pendent city or state. (Thuc. vi. 62.) The peri.J

of its foundation is wholly uncertain. Siefert wooal

identify it with the city called Chcrsonestis by Eu**-

bius, the foundation of which that author assigns to a

period as early as B.C. 716, but the identification is

very questionable. (Euseb. Chron. ad 01.161; Siefert,

ZanLU-Mestana, p. 4.) It is certain, however,

that it was founded before Himera, B. c. 648, as,

according to Strabo, the Zanclaeans at Mylae took

part in the colonisation of the latter city. (Strab. vi

p. 272.) Mylae itself does not appear to have ever

risen to any great importance; and after the revolu­

tion which changed the name of Zancle to that of

Messana, still continued in the same dependent re­

lation to it as la-fore. It was, however, a strong

fortress, with a good port; and these advantages

which it derived from its natural situation, rendered

it a place of importance to the Mcssanians as secur­

ing their communications with the N. coast of tha

island. Scylax speaks of it as a Greek dry and

port (Scyl. p. 4. § 13), and its castle or fortress is

mentioned by several ancient writers. The earliwt

historical notice of the city is found in B. c. 427,

when the Athenian licet uuder Laches which ansa

stationed at Khrgium, made an attack upon Mylae.

The place was defended by the Messanians with a

strong garrison, but was compelled to surrender u»

the Athenians and their allies, who thereupon

marched against Messana itself. (Thuc. iii. 90; D»«i.

xii. 54.) After the destruction of Messana by tha

Carthaginian general Himilion, Mylae appears to

have for a time shaken off its dependence; and

in ii. c. 394. the Rhcgians, becoming alarmed at

the restoration of Messana by Dtonysiu-s which

they regarded as directed against themselves, pro­

ceeded to establish at Mylae the exiles from Naxs

and Catana, with a view to create a countcrrlie<a;

to the rising power of Messana. The scheme, how­

ever, failed of effect; the lihegians were defeated

and the Messanians recovered possession of Mykav

(Diod. xiv. 87.) That city is again notirad dunnf

the war of Tinwleon in Sicily; and in B. r. 915 ic

was wrested by Agathocles, from the Mr>unians,

though he was mun after compelled Ui restore it to

them. (Id. xix. 65: Plat. Timol, 37.) It was ia

the immediate neighbourhood of Mylae also (Jr ry

MuAotV Tt&tifi') that the forces of the Mamiiliasa

were defeated in a great battle, by Hicran of Syra­

cuse, B c. 270(Pol. i. 9; Diod. xxii. 13); IhJufh.

