ROMA. ROMA 613

tm m abo a Velabrum Minns, which it U

rani to mppote wu not far distant from the

•ubrun Majua. V'arro says that there was in

r Vckbrum Jlinus a lake or pond formed from

tutfphna; called Laitolae, near the temple of

. j'nm.nu3 (Ib. § 156); and Panlus Diaconus

ll9)d(Knbes the Latulae as being "locus extra

ml* Hence it would seem that the Janus

mau alluded to by Vairo, must have been the

«Je sear the Porta Carmen talis; bat both the

■ u»l the lake had vanished jin the time of

m, aad (ere no longer anything but matters of

Tu Aires Arorstarius already mentioned as

&car the church of S.Gionjio in Vtlabro ap-

■y from the inscription, to have been erected by

V; f.ualtt and Argeutarii uf the Forum Boarium

taaar of Septimioa Severus and his family,

w, cchv. 2; OrelL 913.) Properly speaking,

v arch, the lintel being horizontal instead of

■'<. It is covered with ill-executed sculptures.

■ to it stands the Urge square building called

n Qcadrifrons, vaulted in the interior, and

■f a large archway in each front. The building

* tipper story, which is said to have been used  
TTToutile purposes. The architecture belongs

oniming period of art, and the arch seems to

> tars constructed with fragments of other build-

■ shown by the inverted bas-reliefs on some

at pieces. (Betckr. iii. p. 339.) The Notitia

0 tot description of Regio xi. by mentioning an

la Coostantini," which cannot, of course, refer

■ triumphal arch on the other side of the

to* The conjecture of Bunscn, therefore

sir .I'll., iii. p. 663), does not seem impro-

,that tins Janus was meant; and from its style

1 in tare it might very well belong to the time

Mafjaa,

■ I kih Boakiim. one of the largest and

eskaratsd places in Rome, apiears to have ex-

i :rau the Velsbrum as far as the ascent to

imrnne, and to have included in breadth the

•pace between the Palatine and Circus Maximus

it aad the Tiber on the W. Thus it must not

omed aa a regular forum or market surrounded

•sib or poj ticoes, but as a large irregular space

tard either hy natural boundaries or by those of

catrjcta. Its connection with the river on the

■ and the circus on the other is attested by the

J{ ones of Ovid (FcuL vu 477):—

antes ct Magoo juncta est celeberrima Circo

-r-ise poaito de bove nutnen huoet."

•a baa been variously derived. The referring

la the cattle of Hercules is a mere poetical

iPrritt v. 9. 17, acq-); and the derivation of

I the statue of a bronze bull captured at

tsal erected in this place, though apparently

aussak, is equally destitute of foundation,

se nana is incontestably much older than

ndauas War. (Plin. xxxiv. 5; Ov. I. e.;

em. xi. J4.) It seems, therefore, most pre­

ss Varo says (£.£. v. § 146; cf. Paul.

. Jo), -hai it deriTed its name from the use

■ < was put. namely, from being the ancient

sarirt; and it would appear from the in-

■ aa tie Arcus Argentarius before alluded

*.;■ traffic still subsisted in the third cen-  
TVa Farana Boarinm was rich in temples

■ i s Hi «/ the ancient times. Amongst the

u«s were those of Hercules, Fortuna, and

Mater Matuta; but unfortunately the positions of'

them are not very precisely indicated. There seems

to have been more than one Temple ok Hercules

in this district, since the notices which we meet with

on the subject cannot possibly be all referred to the

same temple. The most ancient and important one

must have been that connected with the Magna Aka

Hkrcui.18, which tradition represented as having

been founded by Kvander. (" Et magna ara fa-

numque, quae praesenti Herculi Areas Evander sacra-

verat," Tac. Ann. XT. 41; cf. Ib. xii. 24; Solin.

i. 10.) This appears to have been the Hercules

styled triuniphalis, whose statue, during the cele­

bration of triumphs, was clothed in the costume of a

triumphant general; since a passage in Pliny con­

nects it with that consecrated by Evander. (" Hen-

cules ab Evandro sncratus ut produnt, in Foro

Boario, qui triumphalis vocatur atque per triumphos

vestitur habitu triumphali," xxxiv. 16.) It was

probably this temple of Hercules into which it was

said that neither dogs nor flies could find admittance

(Ib. x. 41; Solin. i. 10), and which was adorned with

a painting by Pacuvius the poet (Plin. xxxv. 7). A

Round Temple of Hercules, also in the Forum

Boarium, seems to have been distinct from this, since

Livy (x.23) applies apparently the epithet "rotunda"

to it, in order to distinguish it from the other.

('• Insignem supplicationem fecit certamen in sacello

Pudicitiae Patiiciae, quae in Foro Boario est ad

aedem rotundam Herculis, inter matronas ortum.")

Canina (Indicazione, p. 338) assumes from this

passage that the temple to which it refers must

have been iu existence at the lime of the contest

alluded to, namely, is. c. 297; but this, though a

probable inference, is by no means an absolutely

necessary one, since Livy may be merely indicating

the locnlity as it existed in his own time. The

former of these temples, or that of Hercules Trium­

phalis, seems to be the one mentioned by Macrobius

(Sat. iii. 6) under the name of Hercules Victor;

and it appears from the same passage that there

was anotlicr with the same appellation, though pro­

bably of less importance, at the Porta Trigeuiina.

Besides these we hear of a "Hercules Invictus" by

the Circus Maximus (Fast. Amilern; Prid. Id.

Aug.), and of another at the same place "in aede

Pompeii Magni" (Plin. xxxiv. 8. s. 57), which

seems to refer to some Aedcs Herculis built or

restored by Pompey, though wc hear nothing more

of any such temple. Hence there would appear

to have been three or four temples of Hercules

in the Forum Boarium. The conjecture of Becker

seems not improbable thnt the remains of a round

temple now existing at the church of S. Maria del

Sole, commonly supposed to have belonged to a

TEMPLE OF IIF.ItCU I.KB.

