772 ROMA. ROMA.

bability that among a people like the Romans a public

execution would take place at a public and con­

spicuous spot. The Centi m Gradus, or Hundred

Steps, were probably near it; but their exact situa-

tion it is impossible to point out. Tbe other ajtii |

on the Clivas and slopes of tbe bill will be &xnai

in the next section.

p.''cram La° tnmi fl .

r-——* OOj:

PLAN OF THE FORUM DURING THE REPUBLIC.

1. Bullies Opimin.

2. Aeitei Concordiae.

3. Senaculum.

4. V'ulcanal.

(iraccostasis.

Curia.

BiisMira Pnrrh.

B.isilica Aemilia.

P»>rU Stercoraria.

cbola Xantha.

Templum Sarurni.

13, B;t»ilica Sempronia.

13. Aciles Castoris.

5.

6.

7.

8.

9.

10.

II.

IV. The Forum and its Environs.

The forum, the great centre of Roman life and

business, is so intimately connected with the Capitol

that we are naturally led to treat of it next. Its

original site wxs a deep hollow, extending from the

eastern foot of the Capitoline hill to the spot where

the Velia begins to ascend, by tho remains of the

temple of Antoninus and Faustina. At the time of

the battle between the Romans and Sabines this

ground was in its rude and natural state, partly

swampy and partly overgrown with wood. (Dionys.

ii. 50.) It could, however, have been neither a

thick wood nor an absolute swamp, or the battle

could not have taken place. After the alliance be­

tween the Sabines and Romans this spot formed a

sort of neutral ground or common meeting-place,

and was improved by cutting down the wood and

filling up the swampy parts with earth. We must

not, indeed, look for anything like a regular forum

before the reign of Tarquinius Triscus; yet some of

the principal lines which marked its subsequent ex­

tent had been traced before that period. On the E.

and W. these are marked by the nature of the

ground; on the former by the ascent of the Velia,

on the latter by the Capitoline hill. Its northern

boundary was traced by the road called Sacra Via.

It is only of late years, however, that these bound­

aries have Wn recognised. Among the earlier

topographers views equally erroneous and discordant

14. Regim.

1ft. Font Jc

16. Aedes W»a

17. Putea) Liboatt.

1*. LacuA Curtiu*.

19. Hoitra.

'20. Signum Vertumak,

21. Fornix Fabiaow.

a a. Sacra Via.

bbb. Clivut C*pitaliDu«»

c c. Vicut Jugaxha.

d d. Vicut T

prevailed upon the subject; some aft

the forum lengthways from the ,—

the summit of the Velia, where tbe i

now stands; whilst others, taking the*

the Capitoline and temple of Faustina t»!

its breadth, drew its length in a southerly 4

so as to encroach upon the Velabrom.

theory was adopted by Nardint, and

very recently. Piale {Del Foro AVimn, I

1818, 1832) has the merit of having

correct general view of tbe forum, taoogal

is not always accurate in details. The praparl

of the forum were established by excavabeaajfl

between the Capitol and Colosseom in lt^fl

following years, when M. Fea saw c-jpobtfaW

temple of Antoninus and Faustina, a f*** 4

pavement of the Sacra Via, similar to that m

nins under the arch ot N'. I

Rom. earplique, p. 7.) A similar piece bat J

previously discovered during excawmxtDBB'

the year 1742, before the church of S. Ad

the eastern corner of tbe Via BommUa, <

roni ( Vestigie di Roma antica. p. 75)

sidered to belong to the Sacra Via. A;

longed through these two pieces towaxwa 1

Severos will therefore give the

street, and the boundary of tbe

The southern side was no less

mined by the excavations made in 1835.

Basilica Julia was discovered; and in frofrfl

