LATIUM. 135 LATIUM.

which must at a distant period have been the centre

of volcanic outburst* on a great scale. Besides the

central or principal crater of this group, there are

several minor enters, or crater-shaped hollows, at a

much lower level around its ridges, which were in

all probability at different periods centres of erup­

tion. Some of these have been filled with water,

and thus constitute the beautiful basin-shaped lakes

af Albano and Nemi, while others have been drained

at periods more or less remote. Such is the case

with the Vallis Aricina, which appears to have at

one time constituted a lake [Aricia], as well as

with the now dry basin of Comufelle, below Tus-

col am, supposed, with pood reason, to be the ancient

Lake Regillos, and with the somewliat more con­

siderable Ixtffo di Castiglione, adjoining the an­

cient Gabii, which has been of late years either

wholly or partially drained. Besides these distinct

foci of volcanic action, there remain in several parts

of the Campagna spots where sulphureous and other

vapours are still evolved in considerable quantities,

n) as to constitute deposits of sulphur available for

wonomic purposes. Such are the Logo di Sol-

Jhlara near Ticoli (the Aquae Albulae of the Ko-

tuaiia), and the Solfatara on the road to Ardea,

Mipp«ed to be the site of the ancient Oracle of

Fmnns. Numerous allusions to these sulphureous

and mephitic exhalations are found in the ancient

writers, and there is reason to suppose that they

were in ancient times more numerous than at pre­

sent. But the evidences of volcanic action are not

confined to these local phenomena; the whole plain

<f the Campagna itself, as well as the portion of

Southern Etruria which adjoins it, is a deposit of

volcanic origin, consisting of the peculiar substance

(ailed by Italian geologists te/b, — an aggregate of

vulcanic materials, sand, small stones, and scoriae or

cinder*, together with pumice, varying in consis­

tency from an almost incoherent sand to a stone

lu&iently hard to be well adapted fur building pur­

poses. The hardest varieties are those now called

peprrmo, to which belong the Lapis Gabinus and

Lapis Albanus cf the ancients. But even the com­

mon tufa was in many cases quarried for building

purposes, a* at the Lapidicinae Klibrae, a few miles

from the city near the bank of the Tiber, and many

other spots in the immediate neighbourhood of Rome.

(Vitmv. iL 7.) Beds of true lava are rare, but by

no means wanting: the most considerable are two

?: reams which have flowed from the foot of the

Alban Mount; the one in the direction of Ardea,

the other on the line of the Applan Way (which

runs along the ridge of it for many miles) extending

a» (ar as a spot called Capo di Bove, little more than

two mites from the gates of Rome. It was exten-

areh quarried by the Romans, who derived from

thence their principal supplies of the hard basaltic

lata (called by them $ikx) with which they paved

their high roads. Smaller beds of the same mate­

rial occur near the Logo di Castiglione, and at

other spota in the Campagna. (Concerning the

feological phenomena of Latium see Daubeny On

yolcanoet, pp. 162—173; and an Essay by Hoff­

mann in the Beschrcibwg der Stadt Horn. vol. i.

pp. 45—81.)

The strip of country immediately adjoining the

sea-coast of Latium differs materially from the rest

of the district. Between the borders of the volcanic

Ojxadt just described and the sea there intervenes a

tovad strip of sandy plain, evidently formed merely

bj ftnecessive accumulations of sand from the sea,

and constituting a barren tract, still covered, as it

was in ancient times, almost wholly with wood. This

broad belt of forest region extends without inter­

ruption from the month of the Tiber near Ostia to

the promontory of Antium. The parts of it nearest

the sea are rendered marshy by the stagnation of

the streams, that flow through it, the outlets of

which to the sea are blocked up by the accumula­

tions of sand. The headland of Antium is formed

by a mass of limestone rock, forming a remarkable

break in the otherwise uniform line of the coast,

though itself of small elevation. A bay of about

8 miles across separates this headland from the low

point or promontory of Astura: beyond which com­

mences the far more extensive bay that stretches

from the latter point to the mountain headland of

Circeii. The whole of this line of coast from Astura

to Circeii is bordered by a narrow strip of sand-hills,

within which the waters accumulate into stagnant

pools or lagoon". Beyond this again is a broad sandy

tract, covered with dense forest and brushwood, but

almost perfectly level, and in many places marshy;

while from thence to the foot of the Volscian moun­

tains extends a tract of a still more marshy cha­

racter, forming the celebrated district known as the

Pontine Marshes, and noted in ancient as well as-

modern times for its insalubrity. The whole of this

region, which, from its N. extremity at Cisterna to

the sea near Terracina, is about 30 Roman miles

in length, with an average breadth of 12 miles, is

perfectly flat, and, from the stagnation of the waters

which descend to it from the mountains on the K.,

has been in all ages so marshy as to be almost unin­

habitable. Pliny, indeed, records a tradition that

there once existed no less than 24 cities on the site

of what was in his days an untjeopled marsh, but a

careful inspection of the locality is sufficient to prove

that this must be a mere fable. (Plin. iii. 5. 8.9.)

The dry land ail joining the marshes was doubtless

occupied in ancient times by the cities or towns of

Satricum, Ulubrae, and Suessa Pometia: while on the

mountain ridges overlooking them rose those of Cora,

Norba, Setia and Privernum; but not even the name

of any town has been preserved to us as situated in

the marshy region itself. Equally unfounded is the

statement hastily adopted by Pliny, though obviously

inconsistent with the last, that the whole of this allu­

vial tract had been formed within the historical period,

a notion that appears to have arisen in consequence

of the identification of the Mons Circeius with the

island of Circe, described by Homer as situated in

the midst of an open sea. This remarkable head­

land is indeed a perfectly insulated mountain, being

separated from the Apennines near Terracina by a

strip of level sandy coast above 8 miles in breadth,

forming the southern extremity of the plain of the

Pontine Marshes; but this alluvial deposit, which

alone connects the two, must have been formed at a

period long anterior to the historical age.

The Circeian promontory formed the southern limit

of Latium in the original sense. On the opposite

aide of the Pontine Marshes rises the lofty group of

the Volscian mountains already described: and these

are separated by the valley of the Trerus or Sacco

from the ridges more immediately connected with

the central Apennines, which were inhabited by the

Aequiuns and Hernicans. All these mountain dis­

tricts, as well as those inhabited by the Volscians on

the S. of the Liris, around Arpinum and Atina,

partake of the same general character: they are

occupied almost entirely by masses and groups of

