1290 VIA APPIA. VIA APPIA.

describing his journey from Rome to Captia, com­

plains of the extremely hilly character of the road in

approaching Sotia. (Lucil. Fragm. iii. 6, ed. Ger-

lach.) Even in the time of Horace, as we learn

from his well-known description of the journey to

Brandusium, it was customary fur travellers to con­

tinue their route from Forum Appii by water, em­

barking at that point on the canal through the

Pontine Marshes (Hor. Sat. i. 5. 11, Sec), liutthe

very existence of this canal renders it probable that

there was at that time a road by the side of it, as

we know was the case in Strata's time, notwithstand­

ing which he tells us that the canal was much used

by travellers, who made the voyage in the night,

and thus trained time. (Strab. v. p. 233.)

It will he convenient to divide the description of

the Appian Way, as it existed under the Roman Em­

pire, and is given in the Itineraries, into several

portions. The first of the.se from Rome to Capua

was the main trunk line, upon which all its branches

and extensions depended. This will require to be

described in more detail, as the most celebrated and

frequented of all the Roman highways.

1. Pmm Rome to Capua.

The stations given in the Antonine Itinerary are:—

From Rome to Aricia (Larkcia) - - - xvi. m.p.

Ties Tabernae - xvii.

Appii Forum - x.

Tarracina (Terraeina) - xviii.

Fundi (Fondi) - - - xvi, (xiii.)

Formiae (Mola di Gaeta) xiii.

AIinturnac(near 7Y«y/e7/o) ix.

Sinnessa (Mondragone) - ix.

Captia (Sfa Maria) - - xvi.(xxvi.)

The above stations are for tlie most part well

known, and admit of no doubt. Those in the neigh­

bourhood of the Pontine Marshes have indeed given

rise to much confusion, but are in fact to be easily

determined. Indeed, tlie line of the road being

almost perfectly straight from Rome to Tarracina

renders the investigation of the distances a matter of

little difficulty.

The Jerusalem Itinerary (p, 611) subdivides the

same distance as follows:

Rome to Ad Nonum (mntatio) - - ix. m.p.

Aruia (civitas) - - - - vii.

SponsaeorAd Sponsas (inutatio) xix.

Appii Forum (do.) - - - - vii. (xii.?)

Ad Medias (do.) - - - - ix.

Tarracina (civitas) - x.

Fundi (do.) - - - - xiii.

Formiae (do.) ----- xii.

Minturnae (do.) - - - - ix.

Sinnessa (do.) - - - - - ix.

Pons Campanos (mutatio) - ix.

Ad Octavum (do.) - - - ix.

Capua (civitas) - - - viii.

The intermediate stations were (as they are ex­

pressly called in the Itinerary itself) mere Mutationes,

or posthouses, where relays of horses were kept. The

determination of their position is therefore of no in­

terest, except in connection with the distances given,

which vary materially from those of the other Itine­

rant, though the total distance from Rome to Capua

(I2*> miles) is the same in both.

The Appian Way issued from the Porta Capena,

in the Servian walls of Rome, about half a mile out­

side of which it separated from the Via Latina, so

that the two roads passed through different gates in

the walls of Aurelian. That by which the Via Appia

finally quitted Rome was known as the Porta Appia;

it is now called the Porta S. S*bastia*o. TV

milestone on the road stood about 120 yard*. -y^s>-*

this gate: the distances always continue; *»*

measured from the old Porta Capena. The iwi.«za3

1 and tombs which bordered the Via Appa a ira:

portion of it which lay between the two gates, scr in­

scribed in the article Roma, p. 831. It wu *ra-

rently in this part of its course, just ontwdt m

original city, that it was spanned by three tr.nn^-ra

arches, erected in honour of Drusus (the father*; a»

emperor Claudius), Trajan, and L. Vera*. Oa*

of these still remains, just within the P*ita S.$bm

tiano, which, from its plain and ur.ad-jrned *rn? 4

architecture, is pmbably that of Drusoa. Or.*i«?

the Porta Appia the road descends to a Mrsai! sr^d

or brook, now calW AcowitacruL, which it owa («r

a bridge less than half a mile from the cane: IB

trifling stream is identified, on good etocldos.

the river AI mo, celebrated for the peculiar mr~i

rites with which it was connected [Almo].

distance beyond this the road makes a ct-a.-virrc*

bend, and ascends a bank or ridge before it reacts

the second milestone. Prom that point it is earned

in a straight line direct to the remain* of Bm t

the foot of the Alban Hills, running the ws*xe n*

along a slightly elevated bank or ridge*, fiemea atl

probability by a very ancient current ci u~i r

the Alban Mount. This long, straight hoe «at

stretching across the Campngna. and ^C9vs4

throughout by the remains of tombs and razz* ■»

other buildings, is, even at the present day. g?* «*

the most striking features in the neirhbroraonfi 4

Rome, and, when the edifices which bordered 3 *w

still perfect, must have constituted a nrngaii^s

approach to the Imperial City. The whole usx »

been recently cleared and carefully examinee, ha

described in detail by the Car. Canina ( is rfc*

nali dtll' Institute di Corrifpondenza Arr^oUyn

for 1852 and 1853; and more briery by Des;v-_-*s,

F.&sai sur la Topographic dm /.uttMtm. 4ta fam,

1854, pp. 92— 130. We can here nteouocociTsssa*

of the most interesting of the numerous inosinavu

that have been thus brousbt to lignt, as nt ss

those previously known and celebrated.

On the right of the road, shortly after UWBf

the A lino, are the remains of avast sepnl- hrt. w±±:

now serve to support tlie tavern or Osteria JrUA<^ms-

taccio; this is clearly identified by the insert-as

discovered there in 1773, as the monomer.t -t! Aas-

scantina, a freed man of Domitiaa. and cf hi? v^»

Priscilla, of which Statins has left o§ in a» af mi

poems a derailed description (Stat. SiSc. v. I). Ch

the left of the road, almost exactly 3 eu.Ws r=i

Rome, is the most celebrated of all the m-xx-"--"3

of this kind, the massive sepulchre of Cvc-m *ie-

tella, the dauphter of Q. Meteilus Creticav a*d

of Crassus the triumvir. Converted into a

in the middle ages, this tower-like monument is r.-i

in remarkable preservation, and, from its c t -a

position, is a conspicuous object from all paa» 4

the surrounding country. It u» powtlariT stcwi at

the Capo di Bore, from the bncranmm wLtri »vaa^

as an ornament in the frieze, (A view J

markable nionnment is given in the articie fc^i.

p. 822.) Before reaching the Capo 'h

road passes some extensive remains of b*uicu^% <a

the left, which appear to bare termed part a« a*

imperial villa constructed by the emperor Mixers :ax

attached to which are the remains of a errr/as,

the work of the same emperor, and which, ffjosta*

remarkably perfect condition, have thrown caci feea*

