442 NIVARIA. NOLA.

the bleachers and glassniakrrs of Aogypt. Parallel

with tlu? Natron Lukes, and depurated from them by

a narrow ridge, is the Bahr-bc-la-Ma, or Waterless

River, a name given by the Arabs to this and other

hollows which have the appearance of baring once

been channels for water. It has been surmised that

the lake Moeris (Birkt t-el- Keroum) may have been

connected with the Mediterranean at some remote

period by this outlet. The Bahr-be-la-Ma contains

agatised wood. (Wilkinson, Mod. Egypt ami Thebes,

vol. i. p. 300.)

The valley in which the Natron Lakes are

contained, was denominated the Kitriote nome

(v6pot Ncrpiclms or NirpiaVij*, Strab. xvii. p. 803;

Steph. B. s. v. NiTpfcu). It was, according to

Strabo, a principal seat iff the worship of Serapis,

and the only nome of Aegypt in which sheep were

sacrificed. (Comp. Mac-rob. Saturn, i. 7.) The

Serapeian worship, indeed, seems to have prevailed

on the western side of the Nile long before the Si-

nopic deity of that name (Zeus Sinopites) was intro­

duced from PonttU by Ptolemy Soter, -since there

was a very ancient temple dedicated to him at Kha-

cotis, the site of Alexandreia (Tac. Hist. iv. 83),

and another still more celebrated outside the walls

of Memphis. The monasteries of the Nitriote nome

were notorious for their rigorous asceticism, l'hey

were many of them strong-built and well-guarded

fortresses, and offered a successful resistance to the

recruiting sergeants of Valens, when they attempted

to enforce the imperial rescript (Cot/. Theodos. xii.

tit. 1. lex. 63), which decreed that monastic vows

should not exempt men fr« m serving as soldiers.

(Photios, p. 81, ed. Bekkcr; Dionys. l'erieg. v. 255;

Enstath. ad /or; Pausau. i. 18; Strab. xvii. p. 807;

Clem. Alex. Strom, i. p. 43.) [W. B. D.]

NIVARIA, a city of the Vaccaei in Uispania

Tarraconensis, lying N. of Cauca. (Itln. Ant. p.

435; Ukert, vol. ii. pt. 1. p. 432.) [T. H. 1>.]

NIVARIA INS. [Fortumatae Ins., Vol. I.

p. 9(Hi. b.]

NOAE (NiSai, Steph. B.: Etk. Nocuoy, Noaeus;

Noara). a city of Sicily, the name of which is not

mentioned in history, but is found in Stephanns of

Byzantium (*. v.), who cites it from ApoUndoniS,

and in Pliny, who enumerates the Noaei among the

communities of the interior of Sicily (Plin. iii. 8.

s. 14.) We have no clue to its position, but the re­

semblance of name renders it probable that it is re­

presented by the modern village of Xoara, on the N.

slope of the Neptunian mountains, about 10 miles

from the sea and 13 from Tyndaiis. (Cluver. Sicil.

p. 335.) [E.H.B.]

NOAIiUS (Noapor), a river of Pannonia, into

which, according to Strabo (vii. p. 314), the Dravus

emptied itself in the district of Segeatiee, and which

thence flowed into the Danube, after having received

the Waters of another tributary called the Colapis.

This river is not mentioned by any other writer; and

as it is well known that the Dravus flows directly

into the Danube, and is not a tributary to any other

river, it has been supposed that there is some

mistake in the text of Strabo. (See Groskurd,

Strabo, vol. i. pp. 357, 552.) [L. S.]

NOEtiA (Noi'70), a small city of the Astures, in

Uispania Tarraconensis. It was seated on the coast,

not far from the river Melsus, and from an estuary

which formed the boundary between the Astures and

Cantabri, in the neighbourhood of the present Gi-

jon. Hence Ptolemy (ii. 6. § 6), who gives it the

additional name of L'ccsia (NoiyaovK(j(a), places it

t appean a

ir. 11

in the territorvof the Cantabri. (Strab. in. p. ICI;

Mela, iii. 1; PUa iv. 20. s. 34.) [T. H. D.J

NOELA, a town of the Capon in Uispania Tarnv

conensis, now Noya on the Taptbrt. (Plin. it. Ml

s. 34; Ukert, vol ii. pt, 1. p. 43S.) [T. H. D.]

NOEODITNUM (NrnttavMr), was the chief 07

of the Diablintes [Diablucteb], or of tb< Aalaei

Dianlitae, as the name appears in the Greek tesa

of Ptolemy (ii. 8. § 7). There is no doubt that tat

old Gallic name of the town was exchanged furtsat

of the people, Diablintes; which name in a

age document, 'referred to by D'Anrille, is

Jublcnt, and hence comes the corrupted wot i»V

bkins, a small place a few leagues from Mtymm

There are said to be some lloman remain*

Jtdikim.

A name Nudionnum occurs in the

Table between Araegenns and Subdinnam

and it is marked as a ca[iital town. It

be the Xoeodunum of the Diablintes. [G. L1

NOEOMAGUS (NoioVeryos), a town of Giiial

Lugdonensis, and the capital of the V

(Ptol. ii. 8. § 16). The site is uncertain, D\

supposes that it may be Yez, a name

derived from the Viducasses. Others suppose a%j|

be Xeuville, apparently because XeutUle

same as Xoeomagus. [G.

NOES (Ndnr, Herod, iv. 49) or NOAS (Valj

Flacc. vi. 100), a river which takes its

Mount Haemus, in the territory of the ('.•-l.yii.aa,

flows into the Danube. It lias not been

torilv identified. [T. H. I

NOIODENOLEX, a place in the country 1

Helvetii, which is shown by inscriptions to be I

Cht'itd, near Nc*fck&ttL Foundations of old!

ings, pillars and coins have been found then,

of the inscriptions cited by Vkert (Galiirm, p.

is: " I'ubl. MartiusMiles Veteranua Leg/. xxLG

Noiodenolicis curator." [G. 1

NOIODU'XUM. [Colonia Eqcestkis 1

DIMM.]

NOLA (NiAa: Etk. NatAeww, Xolanns: J

an ancient and important city of Campania, ai

in the interior of that province, in the

Mt. Vesuvius and the foot of the A:

was distant 21 miles from Capna, and 16 frt

ceria (Itin. Ant. p. 109.) Its early history

obscure; and the accounts of its origin are

dictory, though they may be in some degree

tiled by a due regard to the successive

that occupied tins part of Italy. H<

earliest author by whom it is mentioned,

have called it a city of the Ausoues, whom

garded as the earliest inhabitants of this

Italy. (Hecat. ap. Steph. Byz. s. r.) Oo

hand, it must have received a Greek cokarr

Cumae, if we can trust to the authority of

who'Calls both Xola and the neighbouring

Chalcidic colonies (Justin, xi. I); and this

finned by Silius Italicus {Chalcidictrm A'oit

161.) Other authors assigned it a T;

Etruscan origin, though they differed widejT c

to the date of its foundation; some writera 1

it. together with that of Capna. to a dale u

B. c. 800, while Cato brought them both 4

a period as late as b. c. 471. (Veil. Pat. i.

question is more fully discussed under

CAPUA.) But whatever be the dste

establishment of the Etruscans in Cam

seems no doubt that Kola was one of the

they then occupied, in the same

