NICOPOLIS. 427 NIDUM.

the outer port; and there can be little doubt that the

»er>nJ harbour, intended by Strabo, was the port of

I ''. / within the gulf, the distance of which from

Nicopolis corresponds to the 12 stadia of Strabo, and

where there are some Roman ruins a little within

and on the eastern shore of the creek. The port of

Comarns was doubtless at Mytika, but the name of

Comoro is) now given to the wide bay north of

Mytih,

1 he rains of Nicopolis are now called Paleopri-

rests. On approaching them from Prevail, the

traveller first comes to some small arched buildings

of brick, which were probably sepulchres, beyond

which are the remains of a strong wall, probably the

southern enclosure of the city. Near the south­

western extremity of tbe lagoon Mdzoma, is the

Paieiittutro* or castle. It is an irregular pentagonal

enclosure, surrounded with walls and with square

towers at intervals, about 25 feet in height. On

the western side, the walls are most perfect, nnd here

too is the principal gatei The extent of tbe enclosure

K about a quarter of a mile. The variety of marble

fragments and even the remains of inscriptions of

tbe time of the Roman Empire, inserted in the

masonry, prove the whole to have been a repair,

though perhaps upon the site of the original acro-

;••!.-. and restored so as to have been sufficiently large

to receive the diminished population of the place. It

may have been, as Leake conjectures, the work of

Justinian, who restored Nicopolis.

Three hundred yards westward of the Pakokastron

are the remains of a small theatre but little dilapi­

dated. Col. Leake says that it appears to be about

200 feet in diameter; but Lieut. Wolfe describes it

as only 60 feet in diameter. Being built upon level

ground, the back or highest part is entirely sup­

ported npon an arched corridor. Between this

iur or tiik NF.iuunoL'iuiooD or sicopolis.

A .' XlropoIIS.

B. Part Cemarui. Mittta.

C. p»rt »«Mj.

I)

LrSt

La Pwata.

theatre and the shore, are the ruins of a quadran­

gular building of brick, which was perhaps a palace,

as it has numerous apartments, with many niches in

the walls fur statues, and some remains of a stone

pavement It stands just within an aqueduct, sup­

ported upon arches, which entered Nicopolis on the

north, and was 30 miles in length. Considerable

remains of it are met with in different parts of

Epeirus.

Farther north, at the foot of a range of hills, are

the remains of the great theatre, which is the most

conspicuous object among the ruins. It is one of the

best preserved Roman theatres in existence. The

total diameter is about 300 feet. The scene is 120

feet long, and 30 in depth. There are 27 rows of

seats in three divisions. From the back of the

theatre rises the hill of Mikhalitzi, which was un­

doubtedly the site of the tent of Augustus before the

battle of Actium. Close to the theatre are the

ruins of the stadium, which was circular at both

ends, unlike all the other stadia of Greece, but

similar to several in Asia Minor, which hare been

constructed or repaired by the Romans. Below the

stadium are Borne ruins, which are perhaps those of

the gymnasium, since we know from Strabo (vii. p.

325) that the gymnasium was near the stadium.

The accompanying map is taken from Lieut. Wolfe's

survey. (Leake, Northern Greece, vol. i. p. 185,

seq.; Wolfe, in Journal of Geogr. Soc. vol. iii. p.

92, seq.)

com of mcoroijs IS i.rrint .-;.

2. A town of Thrace, not fnr from the month of

the Nessus, and therefore called by Ptolemy (iii. 11.

§ 13) Niko'to\ij ») xtp\ Nfooov. It appears

to have been founded by Trajan, as it is gurnamed

Ulpia upon coins. The Scholiast upon Ptolemy

says that it was subsequently named Christopolis;

but it is still called Nicopolis by Socrates (//". J?,

vii. 36) and Hierncles (p. 635).

3. A town of Thrace at tbe foot of Mt. Haemus.

(Ptol. iii. 11. § 11.)

4. A town of Thrace, situated at the place where

the Iatrus flows into the Danube, and erected by

Trajan in memory of his victory over the Dacians.

(Amm. Marc. xxxi. 5 ; Joniand. rfe Jieb. Get. c. 18;

Hierocl. p. 636.)

NICO'TERA (Nicotera), a town of Bruttium,

known only from the Antonine Itinerary (pp. 106,

111), which places it 18 M. P. south of Vibo

Valentia, on the road to Rhegium. It is repeatedly

mentioned in the middle ages, and .'till exists under

its ancient name as a considerable town and an

episcopal see. [E. H. B.]

NIDUM or NIDUS, a town of Britain, situated

according to the Itinerary (p. 484), on the road from

Isca Dumnnniorum to Isca Silurum.and consequently

in the territory of the Belgae. This site, however,

is in all probability false; and it appears rather to

have been a town of the Silures, the modern Neath,

on the river of that name in Glamorganshire.

(Camden, p. 735.) [T. H. D.]

