444 NOLA. nomi:ntum.

123.) The bouse in which he died Wal afterwards

consecrated as a temple to las memory (Dion Cass.

Ivi. 46). From tin's time we find no historical men­

tion of Xola till near the close of the Roman Empire;

but there is no doubt that it continued throughout

this ]>criixl to he one of the most flourishing and

considerable cities of Campania. (Strab. v. pp. 247,

249; Ptol. iii. t. § 09; Ititi. Ant. p. 109; Orel I. Inter.

2420, .3855, &c; Mommaen, Inscr. R. N. pp. 101

—107.) Its territory was ravaged by Alaric in

A. D. 410 (Augustin, Civ. Dei. i. 10); but the city

itself would Beem to have osea]jed, and issnid to have

been still very wealthy (" urbs ditissima ") as late

as a. i). 455, when it was taken by Geuseric, king

of the Vandals, who totally destroyed the city, and

sold all the inhabitants into captivity. {Hut* Miscrll.

xv. pp. 552, 55.3.) It is probable that Xola never

recovered this blow, and sank into comparative in­

significance in the middle ages; but it never ceased

to exist, and is still an episcopal city, with a popula­

tion of about 10.000 souls.

There is no doubt that the ancient city was

situated on the same site with the modern one. It

is described both by Livy and Silius Italtcus as

standing in & level plain, with no natural defences,

and owing its strength as a fortress solely to its w alls

and towers (Liv. xxiii. 44; Sil. ltal. xii. 103); a

circumstance which renders it the more remarkable

that it should have held out so long against the

Roman arms in the Social War. Scarcely any re­

mains of 1 lie ancient city are now visible; but

Ambrosias Leo, a b>cal writer of the early part of

the 10th century, describes the remains of two am­

phitheatres as still existing in his time, as well us

the foundations of several ancient buildings, which

he considered as temples, beautiful mosaic pavements,

Sec (Ambrosii Leonis tie Vrbe Xolti, i. 8, cd. Venet.

1514.) All these have now disappeared; but nu­

merous inscriptions, which have been discovered on

the spot, are still preserved there, together with the

interesting inscription in the Oscan language, actually

discovered at Abclla, and thence commonly known as

theCippus Abel Ian us [AbklLa]. From this curious

monument, which records the terms of a treatv be­

tween the two cities of Xola and Abelht, we learn

that the name of the former city was written in the

Oscan language " Xuvla." (Mommsen, Vnter. JtaL

D'wlcktc, pp. 119—127.) Hut the name of Ncla is

most celebrated among antiquarians as the place

from whence a countless multitude of the painted

Greek vases (commonly known as Ktruscnn) have

been supplied to almost all the museums of Kur<>pe.

These vases, which are uniformly found in the ancient

sepulchres of the neighbourhood, are in all proba­

bility of Greek origin: it has been a subject of much

controversy whether they are to be regarded as pro­

ductions of native art, manufactured on the spot, or

as imported from some other quarter; but the latter

supposition is perhaps in the whole the most probable.

The great love of these objects of Greek art which

appears to have prevailed at Nola may be sufficiently

accounted for by the strong Greek predilections of

the inhabitants, noticed by Dionysius (A\rc. Leg. p.

2315). without admitting the existence of a Greek

colony, for which (as already stated) there exists no

sufficient authority. (Kramer, iiber deii Sti/l. u. die

Jltrkunjy Grieehischeii Thonge/asse, pp. 145 —159;

Abeken, Mittel lUilkn, pp. 332— 339.)

Nola is celebrated in ecclesiastical history as the

see of St. Paulinus in the 5th century; and also as

the place where, according to tradition, the use of

bells was first introduced iu churches; whence ra»

derived the names of" nola " and " caniptrja."' twully

applied to such bells in the middle ages. (DuCsngt,

(jiossur. i. r.)

The territory of Nola, in common with aQ tit

Campanian plain, was one of great natural frrtnitj;

According to a well-known anecdote related by Aihsl

Gellius (vii. 20). it was originally mentioned afl

great praise by Virgil in the Georgics (ii. 225); H

the people of Xola having given offence to the peat,

he afterwards struck out the name of their city, ad

left the line as it now stands. [K. II. Bj

COIN OF NOLA.

NOLI BA or XOBILI. a town of the Oretsssl

Hispania Tarraconensis, probably situated brtaaf

the Anas and Tagus; but its site cannot be ssal

factorilv determined. It is mentioned onlv by U

(xxxv.22). [T.*H.'D.J

NOMADKS. [Numidia.]

NOMAE (N(!,uai), a town of Sicily, mentioned as*

by Diodorus (xi. 91) as the place where t>>ts)

was defeated by the Syracusans in b, c. 451. 1

site is wholly uncertain. Some authors idessn

with Xuae [Noak]; but there is no auttwriffi

this. [E-H.»f

XuMEXTUM (Hwfitvrov: ArA. Nwuewj)

Steph. Ii.; Komentanns: Mentana), an social

of Latium, situated on the Sabine frontier,

4 miles distant from the Tiber, and 14|

Rome, by the road which derived tr- m I

name of Via Xomcntana. It was icrluassl

the territory of the Sabines, according; to

tension piven to that district in later

hci.ee it is frequently reckoned a Sabine

the authorities for its Latin origin are

Virgil enumerates it among the colonies af

(A en. vi. 773); and I>ionysius also calls it a<

of that city, founded at the same time with

tumcrium and Fidenae, both of which axe

but erroneously, called Sabine cities. (

53.) Still more decisive is the circui

its name occurs among the cities of the

Latini which were reduced by the elder Ti

(Liv. i. 38; Dionys. iii. 50), and is food I

list given by Diony-ius (v. 61) of the cilia*

concluded the league against Rome in a. t

There is, therefore, no doubt that Nomeni

at this period, one of the 30 cities of the %

League (Xiehuhr, vol. ii. p. 17, note); near

appear to have ever fallen into the hands of

liines. It is again mentioned more than oaaa

the wars of the Romans with the V

their Etruscan allies; and a victory was

its walls by the dictator Servilius Prtscssa,

(Liv. iv. 2*2, 30, 32); but the Nomentassi j

selves arc not noticed as taking any part,

however, joined with the other cities <af

the great Latin War of b. c. 338; and b»

which followed it obtained the full right* "of

citizens. (Liv. viii. 14.) From this, timet

no more of Xomentum in history; but it

have continued a tolerably flourishing town-

