NAPATA. NARAGGERA. 397

«r«r, generally placed at the E. extremity of that

gieat bend of the Nile, which skirts the desert of Ba-

kkmda [NlbaeJ, and near Mount Birkel (GeM-et-

Btrket), a site which answers nearly to the descrip­

tion of Napata, in Pliny (/. c). Napata was the

farthest point S. beyond Egypt, whither the arms of

Rome penetrated, and it was taken and plundered by

Petronius, the lieutenant of Augustus, in 11. c. 22.

(Dion Cass. liv. 5.) Nor does Napata seem ever to

have recovered its earlier greatness; for Nero's sur­

veyors found only an inconsiderable town there, and

afterwards all traces of this city vanish. The govern­

ment of Napata, like that of Meroe, was often com­

mitted to the hands of women, who bore the title of

Candace (Acts of A post. viii. 27; Euseb. Hist.

Eedes. ii. 1; Tzetzcs, Chiliad, iii. r. 885); and in the

kingdom of Schendy, Burckbardt found in the present

century a similar regimen. Napata, if not a colony,

was probably at one time among the dependencies of

Meroe. The government and religion were the

wine in both; and from tbe monuments discovered

in either, both seem to have been in a similar state

of civilisation. If Meraice, indeed, represent the

ancient Napata, it seems to follow that the latter

city was the second capital of the Mesopotaniian

region of Meroe.

Napata owed much of its wealth and importance

to its being the terminus of two considerable cara­

van routes: —(1) One crossing the desert of Bahi-

ouda; (2) The other further to the N. running from

the city to the island Gagaudes in the Nile (Plin.

tu 35), the modem Argo. (Russegger, Karte von

.V&oiejt.) Although Napata was surrounded by

Nomade hordes, its proper population was probably

as civilised as that of Meroe, at least its wealth pre-

»opposes settlement and security. Its commerce

consisted in an interchange of the products of Libya

and Arabia, and it was near enough to the marshes

of the Nile to enjoy a share iu the profitable trade

in ivory and hides which were obtained from, the

chase of the hippopotamus and elephant. If the

ruins which are found near Mount Birkel represent

Napata, the city can have been second only to the

golden city of the Aethiopians, Meroe itself. (Dio-

dor. liii. 6.) On the western bank of the Nile are

found two temples and a considerable necropolis.

Tbe former were dedicated to Osiris and Ammon;

and the sculptures respresenting the Ammonian and

(Hirian worship, are inferior in execution and design

to none of the Nubian monuments. Avenues of

sphinxes lead up to the Ammonium, which exhihits in

its ruins the plan of the great temples of Aegypt.

On tbe walls of the Osirian temple, which Calli-

aud {L'liU de Meroe) calls a Typhonium, are re­

presented Ammon-IU and his usual attendants.

Tbe intaglios exhibit Ammon or Osiris receiving

gifts of fruit, cattle, and other articles, or offering

sacrifice; strings of captives taken in war are

kneeling before their conqueror. On the gateway

leading to the court of the necropolis, Osiris was

carved in the act of receiving gifts as lord of the

lower world. The pyramids themselves are of con­

siderable magnitude; but having been built of the

sandstoae of Mount Birkel, have suffered greatly

fr>m the periodical rains, and have been still more

injured by man.

Among the ruins, which probably cover the site

of the ancient Napata are two lions of red granite,

<** bearing the name of Amuneph III. the other of

Amunttionch. They were brought to England by

Lord Prudhoc, and now stand at the entrance to the

Gallery of Antiquities in the British Museum.

The style and execution of theso figures belong to

the most perfect period of Aepyptian art, the xviiith

dynasty of the Pharaohs. Whether these lions once

marked the southern limit of the dominions of

Aegypt, or whether they were trophies brought

from Aegypt, by its Aethjopian conquerors, cannot

be determined. (Hoskins, Travel*, pp. 161. 288;

Calliaud, L'hle de Meroe; Transact, of Royal Soc.

Lit. 2nd Ser. vol. i. p. 54.) [\V. B. D.]

NAPETI'NUS SINUS (o NamjTirai koAitos)

was the name given by some writers to the gulf on

the W. coast of Bruttium more commonly known as

the Terinaeus Sinus, and now called the Gulf of St.

Eufemia. We have no account of the origin of the

name, which is cited from Antiochus of Syracuse

both by Strabo and Dionysius. (Strab. vi. p. 255;

Dionys. i. 35.) Aristotle calls the same gulf the

Lametine Gulf (o Aan-nrtvos koAtov, Arist. Pul.

vii. 10), from a town of the name of Lametium or

Lametini; and in like manner it has been generally

assumed that there was a town of the name of Nape-

tium, situated on its shores. But we have no other

evidence of this; an inscription, which has been

frequently cited to show that there existed a town of

the name as late as the time of Trajan, is almost

certainly spurious. (Mommsen, Inter. Regn. Neap.

App. No. 936.) [E. H. B.]

NAPHTALI. [Palaestina.]

NAPOCA. [Dacia, Vol. I. p. 744, b.]

NAR (6 Nap, Strab.: Aera), a considerable river

of Central Italy, and one of the principal tributaries

of the Tiber. It rises in the lofty group of the

Apennines known as the MoiUl della Sibilla (the

Mons Kiscellus of Pliny), on the confines of Um-

bria and Piccnum, from whence it has a courso of

about 40 miles to its confluence with the Tiber,

which it enters 5 miles above Ocriculum, after

flowing under the walls of Interamna and Narnia.

(Strab. v. pp. 227, 235; Plin. iii. 5. s. 9; Lucan.

i. 475; Vib. Seq. p. 15.) About 5 miles above the

former city, it receives the tributary stream of the

Velinus; a river as large as itself, and which

brings down the accumulated waters of the Lacus

Velini, with those of the valleys that open out at

Rcate. The Nar and Velinus together thus drain the

whole western declivity of the Central Apennines

through a space of above 60 miles. The Nar is

remarkable for its white and sulphureous waters,

which are alluded to by Enuius and Virgil as well

as Pliny. (Ennius, Ann. vii. Fr. 19; Virg. Aen.

vii. 517; Plin. iii. 12. s. 17.) It is singular that

the last writer has confounded the Nar with the

Velinus, and speaks of die former as draining the

Lacus Velini, into which it falls near Rcatc. Both

Cicero and Tacitus, on the contrary, correctly repre­

sent the waters of the lake as carried off into the

Nar, which is now effected by an artificial cut

forming the celebrated Caxcade of the Velino, or

Falls of Terni. This channel was first opened by

M'. Curius, about n. c. 272. but there must always

have been some natural outlet for the waters of the

Velino. (Plin. /. a; Cic. ad AM. iv. 15; Tac.

Ann. i. 79.) The Nar was reckoned in ancient

times navigable for smali vessels; and Tacitus

speaks of Piso, the murderer of Gennanicus, as

embarking at Narnia, and descending from thuire

by tiie Nar and the Til*r to Rome. (Tac. Ann,

iii. 9: Strab. v. p. 227.) [E. H. B.]

NARAGGEliA, a town of Numidia, near which

P. Cornelius Ssipio pitched his camp, and had an

