712 MM A. ROMA.

21): tod the reign of Claudius was distinguished by

the completion of two aqueducts and the construc-

tiuo of several beautiful fountains (Id. Claud. 20).

Tin* factious struggles Irttween Otho and Yitellius

were marked by the ominous burning of the Capitol.

At length the happier era of the public-spirited

Vespasian was distinguished alike by hi.s regard

fur the civil liberties of the Ilomans, and fur their

material comfuru, by the attention which he paid

to the improvement of the city, and by his restoring

to the public use and enjoyment the vast frpace ap­

propriated by Xero for his own selfish gratitication.

The Inunds of the imperial |>alace were again re­

stricted to the limits of the Palatine, and on the site

of Nero's lake rose a vast amphitheatre destined for

the amusement of so many thousands of the Roman

people, whose ruins we still gaze at with wonder

and admiration. Vespasian was likewise the founder

of tlie temple of Peace, near the Korum, and of a

temple to Claudius on theCaelian hill. Titus pursued

the popular designs of his father, and devoted a large

portion of the former imperial gardens on the

Jvuiuilinc to the foundation of public baths, (Suet.

Tit. 7; Mart. iii. 20. 15.) Under this emperor

another destructive fire raged for three dajra and

nights at Koine, and again laid a great pari of the

city in ashes. (Suet. Tit S.) The chief works of

Domitian were the rebuilding of the temple of Jupiter

Capitolinua, which had again been burnt, on the

mere external gilding of w hich he is said to have

expended 12,000 talents, or nearly three millions

steiling; and the foundation of a new forum, winch,

however, was not finished till the time of Xerva,

whose name it bore. (Id.Am.5.) Trajan constructed

the last of the imperial fora, with which was con­

nected the Basilica Ulpia. (Dion Cass. lxix. 4.)

Pome probably attained its highest pitch of archi­

tectural splendour under the reign of his successor

Hadrian, That emperor had a passion for building,

and frequently furnished his own designs, which,

however, were-not always in the best taste. His

most remarkable works were the Mausoleum on the

right bank of the Tiber, now the CasUllo tU S. An-

gthy the Temple of Venus and Rome near the

Colosseum, and the enormous villa whose ruins may

stilt be seen at the foot of the ascent which leads to

TivoH. (Spart. ffadr. 19; Procop. B. G. i. 22.)

It would be tedious and unprofitable to recount

the works of succeeding emperors down to the time of

Aurelian; and it may suffice to mention that those

who most contributed to renovate or ad"rn the city

uciv Septiuiiu.t Sfvents, Caraialla, and Alexander

Severus. During this period Pome betrayed unequi­

vocal symptoms of her approaching decline and tall.

Large bodies of the barbarians had already penetrated

into Italy, and, in the reign of the accomplished but

feeble Gallienua, a horde of the Alemanni had me­

naced and insulted Pome itself. After a lapse of

eight centuries its citizens again trembled for the

safety of their families and homes; and the active

and enterprising Aurelian, whilst waging successful

wars in Egypt and the East, found himself com­

piled to secure his capital by fortifying it with a

wall.

This great undertaking, commenced A. D. 271,

was completed in the reign of Probus, the successor of

Aurelian. (Vopise..lM/\ 21. 39; Aur. Vict.Cost, 35;

Kutrop. ix. 15; Zo>im. i. 49). The accounts of the

circumference of this wall are discrepant and impro.

bable, Vopiscill {Antrl. c. 39) mentions the absurd

mid extravagant measure of nearly SO miles; which,

however, has been adopted by Lipe-ios aai 1

Yossius, as well as by Xibby (A7*ro, -V.

seq.). The walla of Aurelian were rfpaired b

norius. and with the exception of that part i

the Tiber, and some modem additions by tbtf

are substantially the same as those 1

exist, as appears from tbe inscriptions a t!

Without the additions referred to, their c'

would be between 11 and 12 miles.tbwr

city to about the same dimensions as tin

Pliny in the time of Vespasian; dot ii t

reason to believe that, in the sinking stale of tl

pire, the city would have received say i

inhabitants. Another measurement by J

geometrician, jast before tbe siege of un>4

Alaric, gave a circumference of 21!

BAL 80, p. 63, ed. Bekk.);

though adopted by Gibbon, and l

cannot be accepted any more than that oi Vej

(tiibbon, DecL and Fall, vol. iL p. 17, ell

and notes.) Piale suggested that Vu|iiar—j

jwkt instead of passu*, and

both the passages have been proposed; bol*

discussing tbe merit of these, it is i

that the texts are undoubtedly either »

erroneous. This may be briefly bot

shown from the following considerations, i

for the most part, apply to both the state

1st, the incredible extent of the work;

absence of any traces of such walls; 3rd,eft|

buildings within their supposed Units, I

would naturally belong to a city; 4th, tetf

the extant inscriptions ascribe to Ii r

storation of an old line of walls and

constrwetiom of a new one. (Buiibary, I

Mm. iii. p. 368.)

VI. Decline axd Fall of tkx i

The history of the city from tbe tiroeef jfl

presents little more than a propped of *■

decline. The walls of that emperor wees Oafl

its sinking fortunes; but the reign of IfcochfJ^

the Brat marked aera of its decay. Thtl

that emperor and of his collesirtie |

303, was the last ever celebrated at 1

ilistinguished by the trophies of an i

victory. (Eutrop. ix. 27.) The |

had long ceased to be of Roman

cletian, the descendant of slavev, »

ir.atia; Maximian, the son of a

fellow countryman; and

by any ties of birth or;

glories of the eternal city,

emperors who deserted the capital u> txt

dence in the provinces. Maxiunaa

court at Milan, whilst Diocletian

media, on the embellishment uf 1

all the treasures of the East, in

render it a rival worthy uf Rome,

the ancient capital seems to bare 1

sion of his triumph ; it was n*>t

two months, and was closed with

cipitation and abruptness. (Lact.

e. 17.) Yet his reign is distin&raa

conferred upon the city one of the

magnificent of its monuments, — taw 1

Quirinal which bear his name, by tax 1

Rome, whose enormous ruins may s

and aftord room enough for var.oas

vents, and gardens. (Vopisc

Inter, 1056.)

