PHOENICIA. PHOENICIA. 615

i'^!m "liar if the city" wu peculiar to the Ty-

nm H« tpfears in Greek mythology under the

stab; illmd appellation of Melicertes. Cicero

(A. A & 16) alii the Tynan Hercules the son of

Jsa* ul Aneria, that is of Baal and Aahtaroth.

Twnmiftatival at Tyre called44 The Awakening

* Hanks," which seems connected with his cha­  
nter M• HUVfod. (Joseph. Ant. viii. 5.) In

u uaipk st Okies there was do image, and his

tratot tat u mr-borning fire,

.tfifldttr Phoenician deity was Dagon, who had a

Utii tad, ud teems to bare been identical with

Mum of Babjlooia.

fie fbmiciao goddess Onca was identified by

Us tiaaka with Athena. One of the gates of

I »a vai named after her, and she was also wor-

•aat Corinth. ( Kuphor. op. Step*, ijjyz. (,*>.;

h»;ch. t r; Tata, act Lycoph. Cast. 658.) It is

™ prukmbia that the Athena Pulias of Athens

•u tmti from Thebes. The Palladiorn of Troy

t» ika a! Phuenicisn origin.

4< asrht be expected among a maritime people,

* i'lMnadim had sereral marine deities, as Po-  
*** Kemu, and Pontus. Poseidon was wor-

tt Berytus, and a marine Jupiter at Sidon.

T> \rmtt deities of navigation were, however, the

Jawi. da teat of whose worship was also st Bery-

sv ud *ioM images, under the name of Pataeci,

** pUad on the prows of Phoenician ships.

8. 37.) They were the sons of Hephaestos,

11* t<rpa»n Phta, and were represented ss ridi-

«-» jsk pigmaic figures. By the Greeks and

tarv were identified with their Anaces,

s» ai Peutas. Aesculapius, who was iden-

a» r.ii tat air, was their brother, and also had a

'H t: berrtaa. (Pans, vii. 23. § 6.)

»• on but little of the religious rites and

tmtrnim of the Phoenicians. They prac-

al ojiaaaiaWm, which they learned from the

yaas; but owing to their intercourse with the

swa, as rite does not seem to have been very

at? •oatrvtd. (Herod, ii. 104; Aristoph. A v.

t' V* are unable to trace their speculative

Lm'. bat, as far as can be observed, they seem

w*» Was material and atheistic, and. like the

w vsaue nationi, the Phoenicians had no idea

1 ?<w state of existence.

*"H- xLursuca, Litekatube, asd Akt.

at 'otaarcial habits of the Phoenicians did not

u uww wsrhke spirit, and Chariton (vii. 2)

sko the Tyriana as ambitious of military

'Thar reputation for wisdom and enterprise

• on ia the jealous and often ironical bitterness

«t*a they are spoken of by Hebrew writers.

s «-uia and power waa envied by their neigh-

l *t« smW use of their services, and abused

■a. (£snfc, xxxviii. 2, 12; Isaiah,

LU.) Tbs Greeks expressed their opinion of

i toitlety by the proverb Svpot *ol-

l\ which may be rendered by our " Set

i fc catch a thief;" and their reputation for

■> as narked by the saving ^vafia +om-

fc'e ra—i.aia las." (Smb. iii. p. 170.) But

■xaaj eoBmercial raatiun ia always liable to

taa of tku description. In common, and

avaa is confusion, with Syria, Phoenicia was

by the Romans for the corruption of its

»>. saJ at the nursery of mountebanks and mu­

ss, l»ar.fiat. L 2. I; Jot. iii- 62, viii. 159;

BV ». U.) The mimes of Tyre and Berytus

were renowned far ami wide. (Exy. tot Mundi,

Hudson, Geogr. 3/in. iii. p. 6.)

Ancient authority almost unanimously attributes

the invention of an alphabet to the Phoenicians.

Lucan (Phan. iii. 220) ascribes the use of writing

to them before the invention of the papyrus in Egypt.

The Phoenician Cadmus was reputed to have intro­

duced the use of writing among the loniana; and

Herodotus says that be saw the Cad mean letters at

Thebes. (Herod, v. 58, 59; Plin. vii. 57; Diod. r.

24; Tac. Ana. xi. 14; Mela. i. 12, &c.) The in­

scriptions found in Thera and Melos exhibit the oldest

forms of Greek letters hitherto discovered; and these

islands were colonised by Phoenicians. No inscriptions

have been found in Phoenicia itself; but from several

discovered in Phoenician colonies — none of which,

however, are older than the fourth centnry u. c.—

the Phoenician alphabet is seen to consist, like the

Hebrew, of twenty-two letters. It was probably more

scanty at first, since the Greek alphabet, which was

borrowed from it, consisted originally of only sixteen

letters (Plin. I. c.); and, according to Ircnaeus

(a Jr. Jim ret. ii. 41), the old Hebrew alphabet had

only fifteen. The use of hieroglyphics in Egypt

was, in all probability, older. (Tac. /. <-.) The

connection of this Phonetic system with the Phoe­

nician alphabet cannot be traced with any certainty;

yet it is probable that the latter is only a more

simple and practical adaptation of it. The names

of the Phoenician letters denote some natural object,

as aleph, an ox, beth, a house, daleth, a door, &c.,

whence it has been conjectured that the figures of

these objects were taken to represent the sounds of

tho respective letters; but the resemblance of the

forms is rather fanciful.

Babylonian brirks, inscribed with Phoenician cha­

racters, have long been known, and indicate tlie

residence of Phoenicians at Babylon. In the recent

discoveries at Nineveh other bricks have been found

with inscriptions both in the Phoenician and cuneiform

character. Phoenician inscriptions have also been

discovered in Egypt, but in an Aramaean dialect.

(Gesen. Afon. J'hoen. lib. ii. c, 9.) The purest ex­

amples of the Phoenician alphabet are found in the

inscriptions of Malta, Athens, Cyprus, and Sardinia,

and on the coins of Phoenicia and Sicily.

The original literature of the Phoenicians has

wholly perished, and even in Greek translations but

little has been preserved. Their earliest works seem

to have been chiefly of a philosophical and theological

nature. Of their two oldest writers, Sanchoniatho

and Mochus, or Moschus, of Sidon, accounts will be

found in the IHctionary of Biography and My­

thology, as well as a discussion of the question re­

specting the genuineness of the remains attributed

to the former; on which subject the reader may also

consult Lobeck (Aglaopkamut. ii. p. 1264, sq<].),

Orelli (Sanchoniathonit Fragm. p. xiii. sqq.), Creu-

zer (Symbolik, pt i. p. 110, 3rd edit.). Movers

(Die I'honizier, i. p. 120, sqq.; and in the Jahr-

bucher fur Theologie u. chrittt Philotophie, 1836,

vol. vii. pt. i.), and Kenrick (Phoenicia, ch. xi.).

Later Phoenician writers are known only under

Greek names, as Tbeudotus, Hypsicrates, Philo-

stratua, &c, and blend Greek legends with then-

native authorities. We learn from Joarphus (c.

Apion. i. 17) that there were at Tyre publio re­

cords, very carefully kept, and extending throueh a

long series of years, upon which the later histories

seem to have been founded; but unfortunately these

have all perished. Thus we are deprived of the

II 4

