MYONXESUS.

MYKA. 387

(Steph. B., Strab. S. «.), which belonged to Teo*.

The rocks of Myonnesus 'are now called Hypsili-

Pliny (IT. 4V. v. 37) mentions a small island of the

name of Myonnesus near Ephesus, which, together

with two others, Anthinae ami Diarrheusa, formed

• group called Pisistrati Insulae. [L. S.]

MYOXNE'SUS (MooVrno-oj; Eth. Maoviniatos),

a small island lying off the coast of Phthiotis in

Thessaly,in the bay between I.aii-sa Cremaste and

Antron. (Strab. ix. p. 4.15; Steph. B. I.e.)

MYOS-HORMOS (o Moot Spuos, Diodor. iii. 39;

Strab. xri. p. 760—781, xvii. p. 815; Ptol. iv. 5.

? 14, viii. 15. § 18; Peripl Mar. Erythr. pp. 1, 6,

'.'. 1I;'A^oSitt)s Spuot, Asatharch. p. 54; Veneris

I'ortus, Plin. vi. 29. § 33) was founded by Ptolemy

PiiiLvlelphus (b. c. 274) upon a headland of similar

name. (Mela, iii. 8. § 7.) He selected it for the

principal harbour and station of the trade of Aegypt

with India, in preference to Arsinoe at the head of

the Red Sea. on account of the tedious and difficult

mrijation down the Heroopolite gulf. The

lame Mycs-Honnos, which indicates its Greek

origin, may signify the " Harbour of the Mouse,

bnt more prtibably means " the Harbour " of the

Muscle" (uuhk, to close, e.g the shell),since on the

neighbouring coast the pearl-muscle or Pinna

norma (comp. the Hebrew pininim, Job, xxxviii.

18; Prot. xxxi. 10) is collected in large quantities.

(Bruce, TratrU, Tol. vii. p. 314, 8vo. ed.) The

lame was afterwards changed, according to Aga-

tharchliles and those writers who copied him, to that

of Aphrodites-Hormos; but the elder appellation is

wire generally retained. Myos Hormos seems to

liive obtained the designation of Aphrodite (foam of

Ibe sea), from the abundance of sea-sponge found in

its bay.

The latitude of Myos-Hormos is fixed by Brnce,

lyAarille, &c, at 27° N. Its situation is deter­

mined by a cluster of islands, called Jajfateen by

moiem navigators, of which the three largest lie

'■pposite to an indenture of the Aegyptian coast,

behind these islands and on the curve of the shore

*as the harbour. Its entrance was oblique (Strab.  
*vL p. 769); but it was spacious and sheltered, and  
tl* water, even to the land's edge was deep enough

fcr resets of considerable burden.

Myos- Hormos owed its prosperity, as well as its

fmoJation. to the trade with Africa, Arabia, and

India. The vessels bound for Africa or the S. coast

<f Arabia left this harbour in the month of Septem-

l*r. and thus fell in with the wind, which at the

equinox blowa steadily from NW., and carried

th«m down the African coast, bringing them back

io the following May. The furthest S. point of the

African trade was the town of Khaptum, in the

Kejio Barbarica, about 10° S. of the equator. The

•eweU hound for India (the coast of Malabar or

Ciyltm) left Myi«-Hormna in July; and if they

ri'iml the mouth of the lied Sea before the 1st of

September, they had behind them the monsoon for

•early three months. The voyage out usually

occupied about 40 days. We are not informed of

the extent of the Indian trade under the Ptolemies;

lot in the reign of Claudiui, wlien the route through

Aefypt to J/a/a&arfirst became really known to the

llomam, we have a detailed account of it in Pliny

(*i. t\ i. 26). That writer calculated the worth

°f fU and silver sent yearly from Home to the

t*« at 400,000/. sterling, in exchange for which

?*ui were received of at least four times the value

of that amount, when sold again in Rome or Con­

stantinople. The caravans went up the Nile as far

as Coptos, whence they travelled through the

desert for 7 or 8 days to Berenice or Myos-Hormos,

and exchanged their gold for silk, spices, porcelain,

and perfumes. A pound of silk was considered

equivalent to a pound of gold. Philadelphia first

opened the road between Coptos and Myos- Hormos.

At first the caravans carried their water with them

across the desert, and employed camels for the

transport of merchandise. But afterwards caravan­

saries (orafhioi) were built for the use of travellers;

and wells were sunk and cisterns dug for the collec­

tion of rain water; although the supply of the latter

must have been scanty and precarious, since rain in

that latitude seldom falls.

The prosperity of Myos-Hormos as an emporium,

however, seems to have been fluctuating, and it was

finally supplanted as a depot at least by Berenice,

which, being lower down the Red Sea, was yet more

convenient for the southern trade. That it was fluc­

tuating may be inferred from the mention of it by the

geographers. Agatharchides,who composed his work

in the reign of Philometer (b. c. 180—145), in his

account of the Indian trade, makes no mention of

Berenice. Diodorus who wrote in the age of Augus­

tus, speaks of Myos-Hormos, but not of its rival.

Strabo, who was nearly contemporary with Diodorus,

says that Berenice was merely a roadstead, where the

Indian vessels took in their cargo, but that they lay

in port at Myos-Hormos. Pliny, on the other band,

in his description of the voyage to India does not

notice Myos-Hormos at all, and speaks of it inci­

dentally only in his account of the \Y. coast of the

Red Sea. Accordingly, in the reigns of Vespasian

and Trajan it must have been on the decline.

There is one difficulty in the relations between

these harbours—their distance from each other.

According to the Periplus, Berenice was 1800 stadia,

or 225 miles, from Myos-Hormos, and even this is

nnder the mark, if Cape Raselanf be the

Lepte Promontorium of Ptolemy. As the pretext

for founding either city was the superior convenience

of each, as compared with Arsinoe {Suez), for the

Indian trade, it seems strange that the shijis should

have boon kept at Myos-Hormos, but the ladings

taken in at Berenice. It is more reasonable to

suppose that the hitter became the principal empo­

rium of the Indian traffic; and as that increased in

importance, the port where it was principally carried

on became the more frequented and opulent place of

the two.

It is uncertain whether the ruins at the village of

Abuschaar represent the site of the ancient Mvos-

Hormos. [W. B. D.J

MYRA (to. Mvpa or Mvfwv: Eth. Mvptor ), one

of the most important towns of Lycia, situated on

the river Andracus, partly on a hill and partly on

the slope of it, at a distance of 20 stadia from the

sea. (Strab. xiv. p. 666; Steph. B. at:; Plin.

xxxii. 8; Ptol. v. 6. § 3, viii. 1 7. § 23.) The small

town of Andriaca formed its port. It is rrmarkablo

in history as the place where the apostle Paul landed

(Acts, xxv. 5); and in later times the importance of

the place was recognised in the fact that the em­

peror Theodosius II. raised it to the rank of the

capital of all Lycia (Hierocl. p. 684.) The town

still exists, and bears its ancient name Myro, though

the Turks call it Dembre, and is remarkable for its

fine remains of antiquity. Leake (^laia Minor, p.

183) mentions the ruins of a theatre 355 feet in dia-

co 2

