490 ORCHOMENUS. ORCHOMENUS.

in Greece, vol. i. p. 2*J3, seq.; Ulrichs, ReUcn in

Griechenland, p. 178, seq.)

2. An ancient city of Arcadia, called by Thucy-

dides (v. Gl) the ARCADIAN (<S 'Apuaoiwos), to

distinguish it from the Boeotian town. It was

situated in a plain surrounded on every side by

mountains. This plain was bounded on the S. by a

low range of hills, called Anchisia, which separated

it from the territory of Mantineia; on the N. by a

lofty chain, called Oligyrtus, through which lie the

passes into the territories of l'heneus and Stympha-

lus; and on the I£. and W. by two parallel chains

running from X. to S.. which bore no specific name

in antiijuity: the eastern range is in one part 5400

feet high, and the western about 4000 feet. The

plain is divided into two by hills projecting on either

hide from the eastern and western ranges, and which

approach so close as to allow space for only a nar­

row ravine between them. The western hill, on

account of its rough and rugged form, was called

Trachy(Tpaxw) in antiquity; upon the summit of the

western mountain .stood the acropjlis of Orchomenus.

The northern plain is lower than the southern; the

waters of the latter run through the ravine between

Mount Trachy and that upon which Orchomenus

stands into the northern plain, where, as there is no

outlet for the waters, they form a considerable lake.

(Pans. viii. 13. § 4.)

The acropolis of Orchomenus, stood upon a lofty,

steep, and insulated hill, nearly 3000 feet high, re­

sembling the strong fortress of the Messenian lihome,

and, like the latter, commanding two plains. [See

Vol. II. p. 338.] From its situation and its legen­

dary history, we may conclude that it was one of tlie

most powerful cities of Arcadia in early times. Pau-

eanias relates that Orchomonus was founded by an

eponymous hern, the son of Lycaon (viii. 3. § 3);

but there was a tradition that, on the death of Areas,

his dominions were divided among his three sons, of

whom Elatus obtained Orchomenus as his portion.

(Schol. ad. Dionys. Per. 415.) The kings of Orcho­

menus are said to have ruled over nearly all Arcadia.

(Ileraclid. I'ont. ap. J)i<>f/- Lat.H. i. 1*4.) Pausn-

nias also gives a list of the kings of Orchomenus,

whom he represents at the same time as kings of

Arcadia. One of these kings, ArUtoerates, the son

of Aechmis, was stoned to death by his people for

violating the virgin priestess of Artemis Hymnia.

Aristocrates was succeeded by his son Hicetas, and

Hicetas by his son Aristoerates II., who. having

abandoned the Messenians at tlie battle of the Trench

in the second war against Sparta, experienced the

fate of his grandfather, being stoned to death by the

Arcadians, lie apj^ars to have been the last king

of Orchomenus, who reigned over Arcadia, but his

family was not deprived of the kingdom of Orcho­

menus. as is stated in some authorities, since we

find his sen Ai^t'xlenius represented as king of the

city. (Paus. viii. 5; Polyb. iv. 3; Heracl. Pont.

/. c.) It would appear, indeed, that royalty continued

to exist at Orchomenus long after its abolition in

most other Grecian cities, since Theophilus related

that Peisistratus, king of Orchomenus, was put to

death by the aristocracy in the Peloponnesian War.

(Pint. ParalL 32.)

Orchomenus is mentioned by Homer, who gives

it the epithet of ico\vixi}Kos (//. ii. 605); and it is

also called ferns by Ovid ( Mi t. vi. 416), and a<pvtvs

by Apollouius Khodius (iii. 512). In the Persian

wars Orchomenus sent 120 men to Thermopylae

(Herod- viii. 102), and COO to Plataeae (ix. 28). In

the Peloponnesian War, the Lacedaemonims ccpf:"*!

in Orchomenus the hostages they had taken fin

the Arcadians; but the walls of the city wm tlw

in a dilapidated state; and accordingly, wbffi to

Athenians and their Peloponnesian allies artvixw

against the city in u. c. 413, the Orebomenians iara

not offer resistance, and surrendered tlw k*ujw

(Thuc. v. 61.) At the time of the foundaUfl i

Megalopolis, we find the Orchomeruans ei

supremacy over Theisoa, Methydrium, and leTiiici

but the inhabitants of these cities were then trao

fcrred to Megalopolis, and their territ ories t*)^

to the latter.' (Paus. viii. 27. §4.) TheOJia

nians, throng!) their enmity to the Manu.*ia3s, I

fused to join the Arcadian confederacy, and male ■

upon the Muntineians. (Xen. HtU. vi 5. is 11.■

I)iod. xv. 62.) Henceforth < >rehon>ena5 kal

political iuqwirtance; but, from its commarniirxc MB

tion, its jw)sses.-ion was frequently an object of 1

belligerent powers in later times. In tht 1

between Ca>sandcr and Poly^perchoo. it feil mto I

power of the former, B. c. 313. (Diud.x:x.i

It subsequently espoused the side of the AeUiia

was taken by Cleomenes (Polyb. ii. 46). and I

afterwards retaken by Antigomis Dffcon, wiw pi*

there a Macedonian garrison. (PoKb. ii. 54, it,

Pint. Arat. 5.) It was given back by Phihp »

Achaeans. (Liv. xxxii. 5.) Strabo mttitaM

among the Arcadian cities, which had either *

peared, or of which there were scarcely an* ta

left (viii. p. 338); but this appears from

to have been an exaggeration. When tins H

visited the place, the old city npon the Kitran

the mountain was in ruins, and there were oniyi

vestiges of the agora and the town walU; bat il

foot of the mountain there was still as isial

town. The upper town was probably deserted

very early period; for such is the natural streng

its position, that we can hardly suppose ihat

chomeniana were dwelling there in the Pe: oposa

War, when they were unable to resist an ieyi^;::^

Pausanias mentions, as the most remarkahi* «ft

in the place, a sourc<* of water, and temples of S

don and Aphrodite, tvith statue* of stone. Oi

the city was a wooden statue of Artemis, encloi

a great cedar tree, and hence called. Cedt

Below the city were several heaps of stones. tf

have been erected to some persons *l*m a M

(Pans. viii. 13.)

The village of Kalpdki stands on tbe lit* i

lower Orchomenus. On approaching the plart

the south the traveller sees, on his Wft. U

chiefly composed of collections of stort^ asdt*

by Pausanias. Just above Kalj»zki are a

pieces of white marble columns, belor.c.rj

ancient temple. There are also soine re:: *■

temple at a ruined church below the rill»-?

which is a copious fountain, which is evK>a

one described by Pausanias. On the sunn:,-:

hill are some remains of the walls cl tfci

ancient Orchomenus.

In the territory of Orchomenus, bat »3:

that of Mantineia, consequently on the oi

slope of Mt. Anchisia, was the temple of Jl

Hymnia. which was held in high veiieraijoQ

the Arcadians in the most ancient tiro**, i

viii. 5. § 11.) Its site is probably i&dio-*

chapel of the Virgin Mary, which ttma i

LevvDii,

In the southern [lain is an ancient cxrol,

conducts the waters from the surrvundinc rr<i

