MACEOBII. MACRON TEICH0& 241

bia wherein the only productive soil for some hun­

dreds of miles soutJi of Philae consists of narrow

flips of ground adjacent to and irrigated by the Nile.

From the southern frontier of Egypt to the nearest

frontier of Abyssinia the only practical road for an

army lies along the river bank, and the distance to

be traversed is at least 900 miles.

We most therefore abandon the belief that the

Macrobians dwelt in the farthest south. But there

are other suspicious features in the narrative. Similar

length of days is ascribed by Herodotus to the Tar-

tessians (i. 163; comp. Anacreon, ap. Strai. iii. 2),

nor should it be overlooked that the Hyperboreans in

the extreme north are also denominated Macrobii.

We may also bear in mind the mythical aspect of

Homer's Aethiopians (Jliad, i. 423) in which pas­

sage the epithet " faultless" (ap£/u»>ff) implies not

moral but physical superiority (comp. Herod, iii. 20:

suytcrot Km K&Wurroi ayOptbxwy vavrvv). "Men,"

as Dr. Kenrick justly remarks, " groaning under the

burden of the social state, have in every age been

prune to indulge in such pictures of ease and abun­

dance as Herodotus, in the passages cited, and Pin­

dar QJ'yth. x. 57) draw of countries beyond the

limits of geographical knowledge and of times beyond

the origin of history."

If, then, we do not yield up the Macrobii to myth

or fable altogether, we most seek fur them in some

district nearer Aegypt. Whatever tribe or region

Cambyses intended to subdue, gold was abnndant,

and brass, or rather copper, scarce among them.

Now the modern inhabitants of Kordofan (15° 20'—

10° N. lat., 28°—32° E. long.) are commonly called

Nubah, and Nob is an old Aegyptiau word for gold.

Ajain, the Macrobii were singularly tall, well pro-

ptiruuned and healthy; and Kordofan has, from time

immemorial, supplied the valley of the Nile with

able-bodied and comely slaves of both sexes (Hume,

ap. Walpok, Turkey, p. 392). Moreover, the ca­

ravans bear with them, as marketable wares, wruught

and unwrought copper to this district. In 1821

M jhammed Ali achieved what Cambyses failed in

attempting. With less than 7000 men, half of

whom indeed perished through fatigue and the cli­

mate, he subdued all the countries contiguous to the

Nile as far as Sermaar and Kordofan inclusive: and

the objects which stimulated his expedition were

gftid and slaves. We shall therefore perhaps not

greatly err in assigning to the Macrobii of Hero-

d'«oj a local habitation much nearer than Abyssinia

to the scat hern frontier of Aegypt, nor in suggesting

that their name, in the language of the Greeks, is a

etwruption of the Semitic word Magrabi, i. e. the

dwellers in the west. A position west of the Nile

would account also for the knowledge possessed by

tae Icbthyophagi of Klepliantis (Bojah or Bislmrye

Arabs) of the languages of the Macrobii.

The modem Bisharyes occupy the country east of

the Nile from Aegypt to Abyssinia; and their trade

and journeys extend from the Red Sea to Kordofan.

If then we regard the Macrobii (the Magrabi) and

the Icbthyophagi (the Binharye) ss respectively seated

on the east and west banks of the Nile, the latter

people will have been the most available guides

whom Cambyses could employ for exploring the land

ef the Macrubians.

It should be remembered, however, that Herodotus

derived bis knowledge of the Persian expedition

nther frxn the Persian conquerors of Aegypt, or

from tli* Aegyptian priests themselves: neither of

wbnro would bo willing to disclose to an inquisitive

VuL. tt.

foreigner the actual situation of a land in which gold

was so abundant. By placing it in the far south,

and exaggerating the hardships endured by the

army of Cambyses, they might justly hope to deter

strangers from prying into the recesses of a region

from which themselves were deriving a profitable

monopoly.

Upon the wonders of the Macrobian land it would

be hardly worth while to dwell, were they not in

singular accordance with some known features in the

physical or commercial character of that region. In

the southern portion of Kordofan the hills rise to a

considerable height, and iron ore in some districts is

plentiful. The fountain of health may thus have

been one of several mineral springs. The ascription

of extreme longevity to a people who dwelt in a hot

and by no means healthy climate may be explained

by the supposition that, whereas many of the pastoral

tribes in these regions put to death their old people,

when no longer capable of moving from place to

place, the Macrobians abstained from so cruel a

practice. The procerity of the king seems to imply

that the chieftains of the Macrobii belonged to a dif­

ferent race from their subjects (compare Scylax, ap.

Aristot. vii. p. 1332). "The Table of the Sun" is

the market-place in which trade, or rather barter,

was carried on with strangers, according to a prac­

tice mentioned by Cosmas, the Indian mariner, who

describes the annual fairs of southern Aethiopia in

terms not unlike those employed by Herodotus in his

account of the Macrobians (pp'. 138,139). [W. B. D.J

MACROCE'PHALI (Mojcj>Ui«VAoi), that is,

"people with long heads." (Strab. i. p. 43.) The

Siginni, a barbarous tribe about Mount Caucasus,

artificially contrived to lengthen their heads as much

as possible. (Strab. xi. p. 520; comp. Hippocr.

de Aer. 35.) It appears that owing to this custom

they were called Macrocephali; at least Pliny

vi. 4), Pomp. Mela (i. 19), and Scylax (p. 33),

speak of k nation of this name in the north-east of

Pontus. The anonymous author of the Peripl.

Pont. Eux. (p. 14) regards them as the same people

as the Macrones, but Pliny (I. c.) clearly distin­

guishes the two. [L. S.]

MACRO'NES (MOA'fWFcs), a powerful tribe in

the east of Pontus, about the Moschici moun­

tains. They are described as wearing garments

made of hair, and as using in war wooden

helmets, small shields of wicker-work, and short

lances with long points. (Herod, ii. 104, vii. 78;

Xenoph. Anab. iv. 8. § 3, v. 5. § 18, vii. 8.

§ 25; comp. Hecat. Fragm. 191; Scylax, p. 33;

Dionys. Pcrieg. 766; Apollon. Rliod. ii. 22; Plin.

vi. 4; Joseph, c. Apion. i. § 22, who as.-erts

that they observed the custom of circumcision )

Strabo (xii. p. 548) remarks, in pasting, that the

people formerly called Macrones bore in his day the

name of Sanni, though Pliny (/. c.) speaks of the

Sanni and Macrones as two distinct peoples. They

appear to have always been a rude and wild tribe,

until civilisation and Christianity were introduced

among thein in the rei;;n of Justinian. (Procop.

Bell. Pers. i. 15, Bell. Goth. iv. 2, de Aed. iii.

6.) [L. S.]

MACRON TEICHOS (Mtutphy t«xoj), also

called " the wall of Anastasius," was a fortification

constructed in A. D. 507, by the emperor Anasta­

sius I. of Constantinople, as a means of defence against

the Bulgarians: it consisted of a strong wall run­

ning across the isthmus of Constantinople, from the

. coast of the Propoutis to that of the Euxinc.

R

