RAURANCM. REATE. 695

IT), tad in ume inscriptions. Ptolemy mentions

i>> tons of the Rauraci, Rauricorum Augusta and

*--?**ao*»ria [Al'gi sta Raukaoorum ; Abgen-  
uni} Auja-: i is Anytt near Bale, in the

rwaa Canton of Jbile, and Argentoraria may be

Iryiinn. Toe poxitiou of these places helps us

» asra) a measure of the extent of the territory of

it Uiaraci, which may have nearly coincided with

3r kuonpric of Bile.

Tm Kinraci joined the Helvetii in their emigra­

te. B.C. 58. [Hai-vrru.] [G. L.]

iUURANCM, in Gallia, is placed by the Table

» -Ja Antonine [tin. on a direct road from Me-

S« varn (Sait.lt s) t.. Limontun

It is Raurana in the Table, but the name

-vaaaro ocean in a letter of Paulinus to Ausonius  
Fa, IV. ad Anson, r. 249), who places it "Pic-

aass ■ arris.1* The pl.icc is Rom or Raum, near

■**ry, nearly doe south of Poiliers. (D'Anville,

anar, 4V..- Ukert. Galliot, p. 392.) [G. L.]

iU CHAR'S. [AttAUKis.]

KATE (Te^Tf, Strab.; fains, Dionys.: Eth.

anwet, Rratirau: Ritti), an ancient city of the

ac.-s. an J one of the most considerable that be-

•v*i to thst people. It was situated on the Via

n. id :ml» from Rome (Bin. Ant. p. 306), and

. tat banks of the river Velinus. All writers

jm ia s»pre»enung it as a very ancient city: ac-

naa; to one account, quoted by Dionysius from

■aacaa of Troezen, it was one of the original

•aw af list Umbrians, from which tbey were ex.

>J ty the Pelaagi ; but Cato represented it as

t c Vw first places occupied by the Sabines when

- cmzadrd from the neighbourhood of Amiter-  
B, tkeir anginal abode. (Dionys. ii. 49.) Wbat-

- ajtanty Cato may have had for this statement,  
r» ■— no reason to doubt that it was substan-

:» trae. The fertile valley in which Keate was

aM isy in the natural route of migration for a

air itnttodag from the highlands of the central

sua: and there is no doubt that both Reate

I u usxhbuorhood were in historical times occu-

t «r tie Sibine*. It was this migration of the

ai that led to the expulsion of the Aborigines,

> a-r<.*dicg to Dionysius, previously occupied

t trn' of Italy, and whose ancient metropolis,

La was only 24 stadia from Reate. (Dionys. i.

41.) Sliaa Italicus appears to derive its

a iram Rhea, and calls it consecrated to the

ba- of lbs Gods; bat this is probably a mere

aai tancr. (StL ItaL viii. 41 j.) Ko mention

last aneura in history before the period when

a-'-nra bad been subjected to the IComan rule,

to the Roman Franchise (b. c. 290);

at aaoae is more than onoe incidentally noticed

if lav 3a»taiil Punic War. In n. c. 211 Han-

i ta*d under its walls during his retreat from

t. w. arcurding to Coelius, during his advanco

idavt atf (Lir. uti 11); and in u. c. 205 the

a. an apraally mentioned as coming forward,

■ara math the other Sabines, to furnish volun-

a> uat atfnvxment of Scipio. (Id. xxviii. 45.)

■a wholly ignorant of the reasons why it was

as ts the aohordinate condition of a Pracfec-

aaier arnica title it is repeatedly mentioned by

a sal are learn from the great orator himself,

r c^aat especial patronage the inhabitants were

a, Uat a was a flourishing and important town.

as Cat, in. 2, pro Scaur. 2. § 27, de Mat.

a. 1.) Under the Empire it certainly ob-

i \z, QtrLamrj municipal privileges, and had

its own magistrates (Zumpt, de Col. pp. 98, 188;

Gruter, Inter, p. 354. 3, &c): under Vespasian it

received a considerable number of veteran soldiers

as colonists, but did not obtain the rank or title of a

Colonia. {Lib. Col. p. 257; Orell. Inter. 3685;

Gruter, Inter, p. 538. 2 ; &c.)

The territory of Reate included the whole of the

lower valley of the Velinus, as far us the fall- of

that river; one of the most fertile, as well as beau­

tiful, districts of Italy, whence it is called by Cicero

the Reatine Tempe (ad All. iv. 15.) But the pe­

culiar natural character of this district was the

means of involving the citizens in frequent disputes

with their neighbours of Interanina. ( Varr. R. R.iii.

2. § 3.) The valley of the Velinus below Reate,where

the river emerges from the narrow mountain valley

through which it has hitherto flowed, and receives

at the same time the waters of the Salto and Tu-

rano, both of them considerable streams, expands

into a broad plain, not less than 5 or 6 miles in

breadth, and almost perfectly level; so that the

waters of the Velinus itself, and those of the smaller

streams that flow into it, have a tendency to stag­

nate and form marshes, while in other places they

give rise to a series of small lakes, remarkable for

their picturesque beauty. The largest of these, now

known as the Logo di Pie di Lugo, seems to have

been the one designated in ancient times as the

Lacls Velinus ; while the fertile plains which ex­

tended from Reate to its banks were known as the

Rosf.i or more projierly Roseae CAMri, termed by

Virgil the "Rosea rura Velini." (Virg.ylftt.vii.

712; Cic. ad Alt. iv. 15; Varro, R. R. i. 7. § 10,

ii. I. § 16, iii. 2. § 10; Plin. xvii. 4. s. 3.) But

this broad and level valley is at an elevation of near

1000 feet above that of the Nar, into which it pours

its waters by an abrupt descent, a few miles above

Interamna (Terni); and the stream of the Velinus

must always have constituted in this part a natural

cascade. Those waters, however, are so strongly

impregnated with carbonate of lime, that they are

continually forming an extensive deposit of traver­

tine, and thus tending to block up their own chan­

nel. The consequence was, that unless their course

was artificially regulated, and their channel kept

clear, the valley of the Velinus was inundated, while

on the other hand, if these waters were carried otT

too rapidly into the Nar, the valley of tliat river and

the territory of Interamna suffered the same fate.

The first attempt to regulate the course of the Veli.

nus artificially, of which we have any account, was

made by M'. Curius Deutatus, after his conquest of

the Sabines, when he carried off its waters by a deep

cut through the brow of the hill overlooking the

Nar, and thus gave rise to the celebrated cascade

now known as the Falls of Terni. (Cic. ad Alt.

iv. 15; Serv. ad Aen. vii. 712.) From the ex­

pressions of Cicero it would appear that the Locus

Velinus, previous to this time, occupied a much

larger extent, and that a considerable part of the

valley was then first reclaimed for cultivation.

But the expedient thus resorted to did not fully

accomplish its object. In the time of Cicero (n. c.

54) fresh disputes arose between the citizens of

Reate and those of Interamna ; and the former ap­

pealed to the great orator himself as their patron,

who pleaded their cause before the arbiters appointed

by the Roman senate. On this occasion he visited

Reate in person, and inspected the lakes and the

channels of the Velinus. (Cic. pro Scaur, 2. § 27,

oxl All. iv. 15.) The result of the arbitration is

T Y 4

