SELEUCEIA. SELEUCEIA. 933

nt lituated co the sea between Cilicia anil I

• • 'rover against a large mountain called Cory-

mm, the bate of which was washed on it* W.

t bi the tea, towards the E. it dominated the

•Mi of Antioch and Seleucis. Seleucia lay on

S. of this mountain, separated from it by a deep

I r«s«d Taller. The city extended to the sea

cars broken ground, but was surrounded for the

it {art by precipitous and abrupt rocks. On the

i tnranli the sea lay the factory (to! f>xopt7a) nnd

art, uo the level ground, strongly fortified. The

» bolluw (((ret) of the city was likewise strongly

.tflwith fine walls,and temples,and buildings, it

<-« approach on the sea side, by an artifn-ial road

teps »\.wi«»Tw), distributed into frequent and

Bsoouilopes(cuttingH?—•yaAf/tturi) and curves

litis?—€waim$tatrt). TheemAoucAureof theOron-

'i» not far distant—40 stadia, according toStrabo

i. p. 730). It was built by Seleucus Nicator

i a c 180), and was of great importance, in a

ttry view, during the wars between the Seleucidao

tbt Ptolemies. It was taken by Ptolemy

retus on his expedition into Syria, and held by

Egyptian garrison until the time of Antiochus

limt, who, at the instigation of Apollophanes,

c^urixn. resolved to recover it from Ptolemy

■eator (rir. B. c. 220), in order to remove the

u of an Egyptian garrison in the heart of

mod to obviate the danger which it threatened

» operations in Coele-Syria, being, aa it was, a

xad city, and well nigh, so to speak, the proper

i of the Syrian power. Having sent the fleet

ar it, under the admiral Diognetus, he himself

lad with his army frum Apaineia, and encamped

the Hippodrome, 5 stadia from the city.

*r ia vain attempted to win it by bribery, he  
si his force* into thru parts, of which one under

ii made the assault near the gate of Antioch,

=»1 under Hermogenes near the temple of the

tari, the third under Ardys and Diognetus by

>mai and suburb, which was first carried, where-

the garrison capitulated (l'olyb. v. 58—60).

■ afterwards a place of arms i n t he furl her prose-

e of the war against Ptolemy (66). The Mount

aWum of Pulybius ia the Pieria of Ptolemy

*."»>.», from which the town derived its distin­  
ct appellation. Strabo mentions, from Posi-

*, that a kind of asphaltic soil was quarried in  
sate, which, when spread over the roots of the

acted as a preservative against blight (vii. p.

He calls it the first city of the Syrians, from

•. »nd states its distance from Soli, in a straight

I, a Kola lea* than 1000 stadia (xiv. p. 676).

■ <©e of the four cities of the Tetrapolis, which

rrnonym for the district of Seleucis, the others

Antioch, Apaineia, and 1-aodiceia, which were

inter cities, being all founded by Seleucus

and called by the names respectively of him-

u i.tber, his wife, and his mother-in-law; that

t his father's name being the largest, that

[ his own, the strongest (Strab. xvi. p. 749.)

•furies attending its foundation are mentioned

brt Malalas (Ckronographia, lib. viii. p. 254).

ast the port of Antioch, and there it was that

ml tad Bsmabavs embarked for Cyprus, on

lit mission to Asia Minor (Acts, xiii. 4), the

r\ trver having been navigable even as far

Rnch for any but Teasel* of light draught,

calls it "Seleucia libera Pieria," and describe*

striated on a promontory (v. 21) clxxv. M. P.

I trjui Zeugma on the Euphrates (12). He de

sign*tea the Corypbaeum of Polybius, the Pieria of

Strabo, Mount Casius, a name also extended by Strabo

to the mountains about Seleucia, where he speaks of

the Antiocheans celebrating a feast to Triptolemus as

a demigod, in Mount Cassius around Seleucia (xvi.

p. 750). The ruins of the site have been fully ex­

plored and described in modern times, first by

Pococke (Observations on Syria, chap. xxii. p. 182,

&c), who identified many points noticed by Polybius,

and subsequently by Col. Chesney (Journal of the

R. Geog. Society, vol. viii. p. 228, &c). The

mountain range noticed by Polybius is now called

Jcbtl Musa; and the hill on which the city stood

appears to be the "low mountain, called Bin-Kiltstli,"

or the 1000 churches. Part of the site of the town

was occupied, according to Pococke, by the village of

Kej)se, situated about a mile from the sea. The

masonry of the once magnificent port of Selencia is

still in so good a state that it merely requires trifling

repairs in some places, and to be cleaned out; a pro­

ject contemplated, but not executed, by one Ali Pasha,

when governor of Aleppo. The plan of the port,

with its walls and basins, its piers, floodgates, and

defences, can be distinctly traced. The walls of the

suburb, with it* agora, the double line of defence of

the inner city, comprehending in their circumfe­

rence about 4 miles, which is filled with ruins of

houses; its castellated citadel on the summit of the

hill, the gate of Antioch on the SE. of the site,

with its pilasters and towers, near which is a double

row of marble columns; large remains of two

temples, one of which was of the Corinthian order;

the amphitheatre, near which Antiochus encamped,

before his assault upon the city, with twenty-four

tiers of benches still to be traced; the numerous rocky

excavations of the necropolis, with the sarcophagi,

always of good workmanship, now broken and

scattered about in all directions, all attest the ancient

importance of the city, and the fidelity of the his­

torian who has described it. Most remarkable of

all in this view is the important engineering work,

to which Polybius alludes as the only communica­

tion between the city and sea, fully described by

Col. Chesney, as the most striking of the interesting

remains of Seleucia. It is a very extensive excava­

tion, cut through the solid ruck from the NE.

extremity of the town almost to the sea, part of

which is a deep hollow way, and the remainder

regular tunnels, between 20 and 30 feet wide, and

as many high, executed with great skill and con­

siderable labour. From its eastern to its western

extremity is a total length of 1088 yards, the

greater part of which is traversed by an aqueduct

carried along the face of the rock, considerably above

the level of the road. Its termination is rough and

very imperfect, about 30 feet above the level of the

sea ; and while the bottom of the rest of the excava­

tion is tolerably regular, in this portion it is impeded

by large masses of rock lying across it at intervals:

which would imply either that it was never com­

pleted, or that it was finished in this part with

masonry, which may have been earned off for

building purposes. It is, perhaps, in this part that

the stairs mentioned by Polybius mny have been

situated, in order to form a communication with the

sea. There call be no doubt whatever that this ex­

cavation is the passage mentioned by him a* the sole

communication between the city and the sea ; and

it is strange that any question should have arisen

concerning its design. A rou^h plan of the site U

givcu by Pococke (p. 183); but a much more

