280 MARSES. MARSI.

vol. i. pp. 357—361. The inscriptions are col­

lected by Mommsen, /. Ii. X. pp. 290—294.)

The little river Ciotenco, which flows into the lake

close to tlie site of the ancient city, is probably the

stream called by the ancients PiTONirs, concerning

which they related many marvels. [Fccmus

Lacks.]

Dionvsius mentions (i. 14) a town called Maru-

vium (Mapowsi') among the ancient settlements of

the Aborigines in the neighbourhood of Keate, which

is certainly distinct from the above, but is otherwise

whollv unknown. [Aborigines.] [K. H. B.]

MAKSKS. [Bauvi-onia, p. 362.]

MARSI (Mapooi: Adj. Mooo-ikoi, Marsieus), an

ancient nation of Central Italy, who inhabited an

inland and mountainous district around the basin of

the lake Fucinus, where they bordered on the

Peligni towards the K., on the Sabines and Vestini

to the N. and on tbe Aequians, Hernicans, and

Volsnans, to the W. and S. There can be no doubt

that they were, in common with the other inhabitants

of the upland valleys of the central Apennines, a race

of Sabine origin; though we have no direct testimony

to this effect. Indeed the only eipress statement

whieh we find concerning their descent is that which

represents them as sprung from a son of Circe,

obviously a mere mythological fable arising from

their peculiar customs. (Plin. vii. 2; Solin. 2. § 27.)

Another tradition, equally fabulous but obscurely

known to us, seems to have ascribed to them a

Lvdian origin, and derived their name from Marsyas.

(tielliamu.; op. rim. iii. 12. s. 17; Sil. Ital. viii. 503.)

But the close connection of the four nations of the

Marsi, Marrucini, Peligni and Vestini, can leave no

reasonable doubt of their common origin: and the

Sabine descent of the Peligni at least is clearly

attested. [Pkuoni.] It may bo added that the

Marsi arc repeatedly mentioned by the Roman poets

in a manner which, without distinctly affirming it,

certainly seems to imply their connection with the

Sabine race (Hor. F.pod. 17. 29; Juv. iii. 169; Virg.

Gtorg. ii. 167.) That the Marsi and the Marrucini

were closely related is sufficiently evident from the

resemblance of their names, which are itt fact only

two tonus of the same; the old form Marrubii or

JIarruvii. retained by Virgil (Aim. vii. 750) as the

name of the people, as well as preserved in that of

their capital city, Marmbiiun, lieing the connecting

link between the two. (Niebuhr, vol.i. p. 100.) This

connection seems to have been already perceived by

Cato (ap. Prucian. ix. p. 871), though he mixed it

up with a strange etymological fable. But we liave

no historical account, or even tiadition, of the origin

or separation of these closely connected tribes, which

appear in history together with the Peligni and

Vestini, as nearly related, but still distinct, nations.

The llarsi are first noticed in Roman history in

B. c. 340, at which time they, ns well as the Peligni.

were on friendly terms with the Romans, and granted

a free passage to tlie consuls who were proceeding

with their armies through Samnium into Campania.

(Liv, viii. 6.) At the commencement of the .Second

Satnnite War they appear to have remained neutral;

and even when their kinsmen and allies the Vestini

were assailed by tbe Boman amis, they did not, as

had been expected, take up arms in their defence.

(Id. viii. 29.) It was not till B.c. 308 that we first

find them engaged iu hostilities with Rome, and we

have no explanation of the circumstances which tlwn

induced them to take part with the Sammies. (Id.

ix. 41.) It is indeed singular that while Livy notices

this campaign as memorable from its being the firs:

occasion on which the Romans were opposed to the

Marsians, Diodorus gives a wholly different acconnl.

and represents the two nations as in alliance against

the Samnites. (Mod. xr. 44.) There is, however,

every probability that the account given by Livy is

the more correct one, as we find shortly after (n r.

304) a special treaty concluded with tbe M«r»i.

Marrncini, and Peligni, immediately after the defeat

of the Aequians. (Liv. ix. 45; Died. xi. 101.) But

a few years later (n. c. 301) the Marsi again took

up arms (this time apparently single.handed) to

oppose the foundation of t he Roman colony at CarseoK,

on the immediate frontiers of their territory. They

were, however, easily defeated; three of their towns.

Plestina, Milionia,and Fresilia,wcre taken; and they

were compelled to purchase peace by the cession of

a part of their territory. (Liv.jX. 3.) With this

exception, they obtained favourable terms, and the

former treaty was renewed.

From this time the Marsi. as well as their con­

federate tribes, the Marnicini, Peligni, and Vestini,

became the faithful and constant allies of Rome, and

occupied a prominent position among the '* s^oi"

whoso contingents bore so important a share in the

Roman victories. The names of the four natkrjs

are sometimes all mentioned, sometimes one or other

of them omitted; while the Krerttani, who ap;oar.

though of Samnite origin, to have maintained closer

political relations with their northern neighbours,

are, in consequence, often associated with them.

Thus I'olybius, in enumerating the forces of the

several Italian nntions in B. c 225, classes tbe

Marsi, Marrucini, Vestini and Frtnlnni. under one

head, while he omits the name of the Peligni alto­

gether. (Pol. ii. 24.) Dionysius, on the oilier hand,

notices by name only the Marrucini, Peligni, and

Frentani, am< r.g the Roman allies at tbe battle of

Asculum. omitting both the Marsi and Vestini;

while Silius ltalicus enumerates them all among the

Roman allies at the battle of Cannae. (Dionrs. rx.

Fr. Didot; Sil. Ital. viii. 495—520.) Ennius also

associated together the "Marsa manus, rVftrnn

eohors, Vestina virum vis." (Eon. Fr. p. 150.)

During tbe Second Punic War they suffered severely

for their fidelity to Rome, their territory being re­

peatedly ravaged by Hannibal. (Liv. xxii. 9. xxvi.

11.) Nevertheless, towards the close of the some

war, they were among the foremost to offer volun­

teers to the fleet and army of Scipio in B. c SOS.

(Id. xxviii. 45.)

Daring this peri.sl the Marsi appear to hive

earned a high reputation among the Roman allien

for their courage and skill in war; a character wbira

they shared in common with the neighbouring trit—«.

Hut their chief celebrity was derived firm the pro­

minent part which they took iu the great straggle ef

tltc Italian allies against Rome, commonly called the

Social War, but which appears to have Iwn '.***

frequently termed by the Romans themselv^ id*

Marsic War. (Belluiu Marsk-um, Fast. Capit. - \ »?'.

Pat. ii. 21; Cic. de Dh. L 44, Ac.; t Moovmss

aaAoiWro? Tr6\*fivs, Strab. v. p. 241.) Pninpaetxros

Silo, who is termed by Livy one of the chief author*

of this memorable contest, was himself a Martian:

and it was probably at his instigation that tbe Mart:

were the first to take np arms after the outbreak c**

the Picentes at Asculum; thus at once imparting to

the impending contest the character of a nati sal

war. (VeU. Pat. ii. 15; Strah. v. p. 241: D»J.

xxxvii. 2.) Their example was immediately (UkmAl

