LATIUM. 133 LATIUM.

comprised Fidenae, Crustomerium, and Momentum,

ail of which are clearly established as Latin towns,

while Eretum, only 3 milea from Noracntum, is

equally well made out to be of Sabine origin. This

line of demarcation is confirmed by Strabo, who

tpraks of the Sabines as extending from, the Tiber

and Xomentton to the Vestini. (Strab. v. p. 228.)

Kn*m Momentum to Tibur the frontier cannot be

traced with accuracy, from our uncertainty as to

the position of several of the towns in this part of

Latium—Corniculum, Medullia, Cameria, and Ame-

riola; but we may feel assured that it comprised the

outlying group of the Monies Corniculani (Mte. S.

Angtto and Monticelli), and from thence stretched

arruv* to the foot of Monte Gennaro (Mons Lucre-

lilis), anound the lower slopes of which are the ruins

or sites of more than one ancient city. Probably the

whule of this face of the mountains, fronting the

plain of the Campagna, was always regarded as be­

longing to Latium, though the inner valleys and re-

v?n* of t he same range were inhabited by the Sabines.

Tibur itself was unquestionably Latin, though how far

its territory extended into the interior of the moun­

tains is difficult to determine. But if Empulum and

Saasula (two of its dependent towns) be correctly

placed at Ampiglicme and near Siciliano, it must

have comprised a considerable tract of the mountain

country on the left bank of the Anio. Varia, on the

other hand, and the valley of the Digentia, were un­

questionably Sabine. 3. Returning to the Anio at

T:bnr, the whole of the W. front of the range of the

Apennines from thence to I'raeneste (Palestrina)

*a$ certainly Latin ; but the limits which separated  
the La] ins from the Aequians are very difficult to

determine. We know that Bola, Pedum, Tolerium,

and Vitelha, all uf which were situated in this neigh­

borhood, were Latin cities; though, from their prox­

imity to the frontier, several of them fell at one time

cr other into the hands of the Aequians ; in like

manner we cannot doubt that the whole group of

the Alban Hills, including the range of Mount Al-

gwus, was included in the original Latium, though

the Aequians at one time were able to occupy the

heights of Algidus at the opening of almost every

campaign. Valmontone, whether it represent To-

kriara or Vitellia, must have been about the most

adranced point of the Latin frontier on this side.

4. The Volscian frontier, as already observed, ap­

pears to have undergone much fluctuation. On the

<** hand, we find, in the list of the cities forming the

Latin League, as given by Dionysius (v. 61), not

nr.lv Velitrae, which at a later period is called a

Volscian city, but Cora, Norba, and Setia, all of

which were situated on the western front of the

range of mountains which formed in later times the

stronghold of the Volscian nation; but looking on

the Pontine Marshes. Even as late as the outbreak

of the great Latin War, B. c. 340, we find L. Annius

of Sttia. and L. Numicius of Circeii, holding the

rfairf magistracy among the Latins, from whom at

the same time Livy expressly distinguishes the Vol-

•riaas (Liv. viii. 3). These statements, combined

*itl: those of Pliny and Strabo already cited, seem  
tc kav» no doubt that Latium was properly regarded

fa fitrtiding as far as Circeii and the promontory

ut the same name, and comprising the whole plain

'A ti* Pontine Marshes, as well as the towns of

Cora, Norba, and Setia, on the E. side of that plain.

0<i the other hand, Tarracina (or Anxnr) and Pri-

•••cTuiim were certainly Volscian cities; and there can

be no doubt that during the period of the Volscian

power they had wrested a great part of the tract

just described from the dominion of the Latins.

Antium, which for some reason or other did not

form a member of the Latin League, was from an

early period a Volscian city, and became one of the

chief strongholds of that people during the fifth

century b. c.

The extent of Latium Antiquum, as thus limited,

was far from considerable; the coast-line, from the

mouth of the Tiber to the Circeian promontory,

does not exceed 52 geographical or 65 Roman

miles (Pliny erroneously calls it only 50 Roman

miles); while the greatest length, from the Circeian

promontory to the Sabine frontier, near Eretum, is

little more than 70 Roman miles; and its breadth,

from the mouth of the Tiber to the Sabine frontier,

is just about 30 Roman miles, or 240 stadia, as

correctly stated by Dionysius on the authority of

Cato. (Dionys. ii. 49.)

2. Latium Novum. The boundaries of La-

Hum in the enlarged or geographical sense of the

name are much more easily determined. The term, as

thus employed, comprehended, besides the original

territory of the Latins, that of the Aequians, the

Hernicans, the Volscians, and the Aurnncans or

Ausonians. Its northern frontiers thus remained un­

changed, while on the E. and S. it was extended so as

to border on the Marsi, the Samnites, and Campania.

Some confusion is nevertheless created by the new

line of demarcation established by Augustus, who,

while he constituted the first division of Italy out of

Latium in this wider sense together with Campania,

excluded from it the part of the old Latin territory

N. of the Anio, adjoining the Sabines, as well as

a part of that of the Aequians or Aequiculani,

including Carseoli and the valley of the Turano.

The upper valley of the Anio about Subiaco, on the

other hand, together with the mountainous district

extending from thence to the valley of the Sacco,

constituting the chief abode of the Aequi during

their wars with Rome, was wholly comprised in the

newly extended Latium. To this was added the

mountain district of the Hernici, extending nearly

to the valley of the J.in-, as well as that of the

Volsci, who occupied the country for a considerable

extent on both sides of the Litis, including the

mountain district around Arpinum and Atina, where

they bordered on the territory of the Samnites. The

limits of Latium towards the S., where its frontiers

adjoined those of Campania, are clearly marked by

Strabo, who tells us that Casinum was the last Latin

city on the line of the Via Latina,—Teanum being

already in Campania; while on the line of the Via

Appia, near the sea-coast, Sinuessa was the frontier

town of Latium. (Strab. v. pp. 231, 233, 237;

Plin. iii. 5. 6. 9.) Pliny, in one passage,appears to

speak of the Liris as constituting the boundary of

this enlarged Latium (/A. § 56), while shortly

after (§ 59) he terms Sinuessa "oppidum ex t rem urn

in adjecto Latio," whence it has been supposed that

the boundary of Latium was at first extended only

to the Liris, and subsequently carried a step further

so as to include Sinuessa and its territory. (Cramer's

Italy, vol. ii. p. 11.) But we have no evidence of

any such successive stages. Pliny in all probability

uses the tenn "adjectum Latium" only as contra­

distinguished from " Latium antiquum;" and the

expression in the previous passage, "unde nomen

Latii pracessit ad Lirim amnem,'' need not be con­

strued too strictly. It is certain, at least, that, in

the days of Strabo, as well as those of Pliny, Si­

K 3

