MITYI.ENE. 363 MOABITAE

ud pave it to a Galatian prince Bogodiatarns, or

Bragitarus, as he is called on coins. (Strah. xii. p.

56;;S*stini, p. 129.) '[L. S.]

MITYLE'NE. [Mttilesb.]

MITYS, a river of Pieria in Macedonia, which

the Koman army, in the third campaign against

Perseus, under Q. Marcius. reached on the first day

after their occupation of Dium. (Liv. xliv. 7.)

Tiie Mitys was perhaps the river of Katerina.

(Leake, North. Greece, vol. iii. p. 424.) [E. B. J.]

M1ZAGUS. [Mnizi-s.]

MIZPAH v. MIZPEH (Mumprf). This Hebrew

appellative (r. Hrpy), signifying "a commanding

height," "a beacon." "watehtower," and the like

(tuervrrtvifttvov tovto crjfjialvei Kara rijv 'EGuaiwv

7A«ttoi', Joseph. -4nt. vi. 2. § 1), is used as the

proper name of several sites or towns in Palestine,

doubtless from their positions.

1. The most important was Mizpah (once

written Mizpeh, Josh, xviii. 26), in the tribe of Ben­

jamin, where a convocation of the tribes of Israel

was hell on important occasions, dnring the times

of the Judges, and was one of the stations in

Samuels annual circuit. (Judges,xx. 1, 3, xxi. 1;

1 Sam. vii. 5—17, x. 17, &c.) It was strengthened

by Asa, king of Judah, as a frontier garrison against

Israel, and he used for his works the materials

brought from the neighbouring Ramah, which

Bi&sha, king of Israel, had built on his southern

frontier, " that he might not suffer any to go out or

to come in to Asa. king of Judah." (1 Kings, xv.

17—22; comp. 2 Chron. xvi. 6.) After the de-

itruction of Jerusalem by Nebuchadnezzar it be­

came, for a short time, the seat of the government,

«nd there it was that Gedaliah and his officers were

barbarously murdered by Ishmael and his company.

(2 Kmgr, xxv. 22—25; Jeremiah, xl. xli.) It is

clear from this narrative that it was situated on the

highroad between Samaria and Jerusalem (xli.

5.6); and it is evident from the narrative in Judges

that it could not be far distant from Gibeah of

Benjamin, as the head quarters of the Israelites

*erc at Mizpah while they were besieging Gibeah.  
It was restored and inhabited soon after the cap­

tivity (Xehem. ii. 7, 15), and is mentioned in the

b»k of Maccabees as situated over against Jeru­

salem (Maff<rr/£a Karivami 'lepowra\fo\ and as

hariog been formerly an oratory of Israel; and there

it was that Judas Maccabaeus and his brothers

truuOTrated their great work with fasting and

farer. (1 ifaccab. iii. 46.) It is frequently men­

tions! by Josephus in his narrative of the Scripture

history, but his orthography is far from uniform.

Martini (vi 2. § 1), Mcur^ofla (vi. 4. § 4, x. 9.

H *. 4, 5), Mtur-pd (viii. 13. § 4). In the last

rtoi passage he informs us that Mizpah was in the

«roe pl«e as Ranathon (or Ramah), which he

pkces 40 stadia from Jerusalem (§ 3). Eusebius

•rsl !>:. Jerome most unaccountably confound this

Mopah with the Mizpah of Gilead (infra, No. 3).

They place it near Kirjathjearim. ( OnomasL s. v.

Iwitfti) Its site has not been satisfactorily

KW.liftea'. Dr. Robinson thinks that either Tell-el-

M (Bean-bill), lying about an hour south of Er-

*» (Ramah) towards Jerusalem, or Ntby Samwil,  
•T**bat further distant from Er-R&m, to the west

^ the former site, would correspond to the site of

Miiiah. He inclines strongly to the latter site

(£"'■ Res. toL it p. 144); which, however, seems

t" h» t/o far removed from the highroad between

Jcnoalem and Samaria, on which Mizpah was cer-

tainly situated. Possibly the modem village of

Shaphat, identical in meaning with Mizpah, situated

on that road, near to Tell-el-Ful, may mark this

ancient site; or another site, between this and Er~

Ram, on the east of the road, still called 'Ain Nus-

peh, may mark the spot. It is worthy of remark

that the high ground to the north of Jerusalem is

called by a name of kindred signification with Miz­

pah, and doubtless derived its name Sitoirds from

that town. It is on this ridge that Shaphat lies.

2. Mizpeh (LXX., Morripri) is mentioned among

the cities of Judah (Josh. xv. 38); and this must

be either the one which Eusebius mentions as still

existing under the same name, in the borders of

Eleutheropolis to the north, or the other in the tribe

of Judah, on the way to Aelia. The former of these

is probably Tell-es-Sa/ieh, the Alba Specula of the

middle ages; the latter may be Beit-Safa, a little

to the south of Jerusalem, between that city and

Bethlehem.

3. Mizpah, in Mount Gilead, probably identical

with Ramath-Mizpeh in Gad (Josh. xiii. 26), de­

rived its name from the incident mentioned in Ge~

nesis, xxxi. 44—55, and was apparently the site of

the rough monument of unhewn stones called by

Lnban in Chaldce, " Yegar-sahadutha," and by Ja­

cob in Hebrew, "Galeed," both signifying "the

heap of witness." The site was called "Mizpah;

for, he said, The Lord watch between me and thee,

when we are absent one fiom the other." This is

doubtless the Mizpah of Jephtha tire Gileadite,

which seems to have had somewhat of a sacred

character, and to have served for the national con­

ventions of the trans-Jordanic tribes, as its name­

sake in Benjamin did in Palestine Proper. (Judges,

x. 17, xi. 11, 34.) Eusebius notices it as a Lcvitical

city in the tribe of Gad. (Onomast. s. v. Matnpo.)

4. A fourth Mizpeh is named in Josh. xi. 3,

more to the north of Peraea, where we read of " the

Hivite under Hermon, in the land of Mizpeh;" and

presently afterwards of " the valley of Mizpeh east­

ward" (vcr. 8), which cannot be identical with the

Gileadite Mizpeh, but must have been at the south­

ern base of Mount Hermon.

5. Mizpeh of Moab is mentioned (in 1 Sam.

xxii. 3) in a manner which seems to intimate that

it was the capital of that country in the time of

David, as it was certainly the residence of its king.

(Euseb. Onom. s. v. Mao-oTjfpti.) [G. W.]

MNI/.US, orMINIZUS, a small town in Galatia,

between Lagania and Ancyra, where the Eni]ieror

Anastasius must have resided for some time, as

several of his constitutions are dated from that place,

both in the Codex Theodosiantrs and the Codex

Justiniancus. (ftin. i/rrroj. p.575 j ft Ant. p. 142;

Notit. Episc, where it is called MiTJfos; Hierocl.

p. 697, where it bears the name 'PfyeVfi"0': Tab.

Pent, calls it Mizagus; Cod. Tlicod. tk his qui ad

Eceles. i. 3; de. Epist. i. 33; de J'oen. i 16.)

Mniztis was the see of a bishop, as we know from

several councils at which its bishops are mentioned.

Kiepert identifies the place with the modern

Ajas. [L. S.]

MOAB (Muds), vallis, regio, campesiria, &c

[Moabitae.] The notice of Eusebius may be here

introduced (OmmiasL s. v. MudS):—"A city of

Arabia, now called Areopolis. The country also is

called Moab, but the city Kabbath Moab." [AitE-

opous.] [G. W.]

MOABITAE (Maagirai: the country Moot?-

tis), the people descended from Moab, the sou of

