SARUATIA. SARMATIA. 915

mb Wag inordinate. He carries it as Tar as

i country of the Bast am ae.

Tbe German; of Tacitus is bounded on the east

'•i Siraiatae and Daci. The Sarmatae here are

politico of a comparatirely smtill area between

1 Ansae and TLeiss, and on the boundaries of

•wry, Moldavia, and Gallicia. But they are

rtbmt more. They are the type of a large

* wUtly ipread both eastward and northward;  
lu nf equal value with that of the Germani.

o, obrioosr/, subtracts something from the vast

ail of the Germania of Strabo (which nearly

lot Northern Europe); but not enough. The

!»o of the Baatarnae, Peucini, Venedi, and Finni,

nil in epan question. [Sctthia.]

rh» prepares us for something more systematic,

1 it ii a Ptolemy that we find it The Sarma-

t uf Ptolemy fall into (1) the European, and

the Asiatic

L SABMATIA EUROPAEA.

V western boundary is the Vistula; the nor-

t the Baltic, aa far as the Vmedic gulf and

net of unknown country; the southern, the

but of the Jazygea Metanastae and Dacia; the

wa, the isthmus of the Crimea, and the Don.

i urns as parts of Poland and Gallicia, Li­

ma, IMonia, and Western Russia. It in-

l» tbe finni (probably a part only), and the

tti. vbo are Scythians to nomine ('AAoupoi

**). It includes the Baatarnae, the Peucini,  
am especially the Venedi. It also includes

■on pit Juygee, as opposed to the Jazygea

uutae, who form a small section by them-

n. All these, with the exception of the Finni,

npedally stated to be the great nations of Sar­

is (ta which add the Roxolani and Hamaxobii),

} ysei to the smaller ones.

(tile greater nations of Samatia Europaea, the

era and Baatarnae of Ptolemy are placed further

0 lata the Peucini and Bastamue of his pre-

wvr By later writers they are rarely mentioned.

5> ot.j Neither are the Jazygea, who are

iuTcra Sarmatae of Strain. These, along

il* Sdxobmi, lay along the whole aide ({Anr

•Knpi*) of the Maeotis, say in Kherson,

*w sol Ekatermoslae. [RoxoLArn.] Ha-  
axl is merely a descriptive term. It probably

tpplied to some Scythian population. Pliny

4 Hamaxobii aut Aorai, a fact of which fur-

Mice is taken below. The Alauni, notwith-

Ittr, an 'AAoiVor Spot, and other coraplica-

. on scarcely be other than the Alani of Can-

i; tba iAtrftwres "AAowroi of the Periegesia

W) are undoubted Scythians. Nestor, indeed,

■ peculation otherwise unknown, called E7tezi,

a being non-radical, which is placed on the

It does not, however, remove the difficulty.

L* Peorini were beat known aa the occupants of

'tbt Blsnds at the mouth of the Danube.

'nay alas, however, have extended far into

vntta. So manifold are the changes that a

1 with Sannattan or Scythian inflexion can

Ti, that it is not improbable that Peuc-ini

* the modern words Budjack and Best, in  
tibia. The following are the actual forma

i the name of the />ats-inacka, exactly in the

try of the/Vae-ini, undergoes in the mediaeval

ftrcaatine writers, nerrfirajcrroi, Pecenatici,

Piacenates, Postinagi, Peczenjezi (in

■ac), Pttaa, Ptcinei (the nearest approach to

Peucini.) Then, in the direction of Budziak and

Bessi, BeJinaJSje, Petscknakije, /tetna-vollr (in

Norse), Bisseni and Bessi, (Zeuss, Die Deutschen,<fc.

s. vv. Pecinaci and Cumani). The Patzinaks were

Scythians, who cannot be shown to be of recent

origin in Europe. They may, then, have been the

actual descendants of the Peucini; though thia is

not necessary, for they may have been a foreign

people who, on reaching the country of the Peuc­

ini. took the name; in such a case being Peuc-mi

in the way that an Englishman is a Briton, i.e. not

at alt. The difference between the Peucini and

Bastaxnae was nominal. Perhaps the latter were

Moldavian rather than Bessarahian. The Atmnni

and Siaones of Strabo were Bastaraae.

The geography of the minor nations is more

obscure, the arrangement of Ptolemy being some­

what artificial. lie traces them in two parallel

columns, from north to south, beginning, in both

cases with the country of the Venedi, and taking

the eastern bank of the Vistula first. The first

name on this list is that of the Gythonea, south of

the Venedi. It is not to be understood by this that

the Venedi lay between the Gythonea and the Baltic,

so as to make the latter an inland people, but simply

that the Venedi of the parts about Memel lay north

of the Gythones of the parts about Elbing. Neither

can thia people be separated from the Guttones and

Aestyii, i. e. the populations of the amber country,

or East Prussia.

The Finni succeed (TiBurfs tfoa ♦hroi). _It is

not likely that these Finns (if Finns of Finland) can

have laid due south of East Prussia; though not

impossible. They were, probably, on the east.

The Bulanes (Sulone* ?), with the Phrugun-

dionea to the south, and the Avareni at the head

of the Vistula, bring us to the Dacian frontier.

The details here are all conjectural. Zeuss has

identified the Bulanes with the Borani of Zosimus,

who, along with the Goths, the Carpi, and the

Urugundi, attacked the empire under Gallua. In

Nestor a population called 5uf-iczi occupies a locality

between the Dnieper and Dniester: but thia is too

far east. In Livonia, Henry the Lett gives pro­

minence to the nation of the Selones, a likelier iden­

tification.

For Bulanes (supposing this to be the truer

reading) the word Polyane gives us the most plau­

sible signification. Nestor uses it frequently. It ia

Pole, primarily meaning occupants of plains.

Wherever, then, there were plains they might he

Poli/ane; and Nestor actually mentions two divi­

sions of them; the Lekhs, or Poles of the Vistula,

and the Polyane of the Dnieper.

The Phrugundiones of Ptolemy have alwaya

been a crux geographica. Name for name, they

are so like Burgundiones as to hare auggested the

idea of a migration from Poland to Burgundy.

Then there are the Urugundi and Burgundi of

the Byzantine writers (see Zeuss, s. vv. Borani, Uru­

gundi), with whom the Ptolemaean population ia,

probably, identical. The writer who is unwilling to

assume migrations unnecessarily will aak whether

the several Burgundys may not be explained on the

principle suggested l>y the word J'olyane, L c.

whether the word may not be the name of more

than one locality of the same physical conditions.

Probably, thia is the case. In the German, and

also in the Slavonic languages, the word Fairguni,

Fergund, Vergunt, Firgunda, Virgunndin, and

hu% range, forest, elevated

3H 2

