ROMA. 93.') ROMA.

w.fi On the Forum Olitorium also stood the

Mtai lactaria, so called because children

n pvrided with milk at that spot. (Paul,

•c f. 118.) The supposition that there was

i'm ■ KuacM 1'i.hcarium in this neighbour­

ed Kit otily ou a doubtful reading in Varro.

.£.».§ 146.)

R« Culpa* Flaminius began at an early period

1» (icupicd with temples and other public build-

r- Ow of tbe most ancient and renowned of the

i» Tu die Temple or Apulia. The site

an ki hive been sacred lo that deity from very

.' lass, and was called Apolunare, probably

0 ung altar which stood there. (Lir. iii. 63.)

1 Unpb was dedicated in b. c 430, in conse-

aa af a row made with the view of aTerting a

Warn. (Lit. iv. 25, 29.) It remained down to

-it* of Augustus the only temple of Apollo at  
^ iliI most have been of considerable size,

i tit senate frequently assembled in it. It lay

lie Forum Olitorium and Circus Fla-

i^, or, according to Pliny's designation, which

c-i to tbe same thing, close to the Porticus

mat. (Ascon. ad Ck. in Tog. Cand. p. 90,

1, Plia. xxivi. 5. a. 34.)

'-'Ui celebrated and important temple was the

u Belloxak, since it was tbe chief place for

dblm of the senate when it was necessary for

''- meet outside of the pomocrium; as, for

«ben generals aim imperio were soliciting

• fcr a triumph, for the reception of foreign

»uJ-iri whom it was not advisable to admit

'-a city, and other similar occasions. Close to

« of the three Sen act LA mentioned by

■ (p. 347). Tbe temple of Bellona is said to

bw* built in pursuance of a vow made by

w ( Uudius Caecus, in the battle against the

m, a. c 297 (Liv. x. 19); but accord-

• Pliny (zzxt. 3) it was built by Appius

a» Kegilleiuis two centuries earlier, who

. ■> iuufea of his forefatliers in it, B. c. 494;

->:i isse tiie vow of Appius Claudius Caecus

imt been accomplished by restoring the

':*tnple. In front of the temple lay a small

i «aich stood the Columna Bkllka, so

^'*ok it was Uie spot whence the Fetialis

* ivtct in the ceremony of declaring war.

u» war with Pyrrhus broke out this custom

M be obaerved in tbe usual manner by

« Me lance into tbe enemy's country; wherc-

'-s^ured Mikiier of Pyrrhua's was made to buy

'* cround near the temple, which symbolised

M<rr of the enemy; and into this tho lance

aaf un all subsequent occasions of declaring

K a people whose country lay beyond the

3tv. ad Aen. ix. -j3.) This custom was

u lite as the time of Marcus AureliuB.

Cast. Ixxi. 33.) There are two points in

> stoat this temple; first, whether the area

*H the Column* iiellica stood before or behind  
i MmaUy, whether the temple itself stood at

■'~ or western end of the Circus Flaminius;

*i:er question also concerns the site of the  
'Hiki l Lts Cistos, as will be seen from

'-^■■'4 Lues of Chid (fast. vi. 206): —

• templo snmmurn brevis area Circum:

ibi boq pmrvae tssnra columna notae.

'"«1 hasta manu. belli praenuntia, mitti,

r*Tra et (rentes qoum placet anna capi.

pi pars Circi custode sub liercule tuta est

/'•i i!eu Euboico carmine muniis habet."

In the first line Becker (llandb. p. 607) reads

'• a tergo," with Merkel, instead of "a templo,"

which is the reading of Heiusius, and of most

editions, and thus places the area behind the

temple. Rut this was not the usual situation for

an area, and there is express authority that the

column stood before the temple. (Paul. Diac. p.33;

Scrv. /. c, where Becker admits that we should

read ''ante aedem" for "ante pedem.") The other

point respecting the site of the temple depends on

whether "summus circus" means the pail where

the carceres were, or the circular end. Becker

adopts the former meaning, and consequently places

the temple of Bellona at the eastern end of the

circus, and that of Hercules Custos at the western

end. Urlichs reverses this order, and quotes in

support of his view Sahnasius, ad Solin. p. 639, A.:

"Pars circi, ubi metae ultimae superior dicitnr;

inferior ad carceres." (Antw. p. 31.) This is a

point that is nut altogether established; but Becker's

view seems in this case the more probable one, as

will appear a little further on, when we come to

treat of the Villa Publica.

The Circus Flaminius itself, which will be

described in another section, lay under the Capitol,

on which side its carceres were, and extended in a

westerly direction towards tbe river. Between it

and the theatre of Marcellus lay the Pouticus

Octaviae,— which must be carefully distinguished

from the Porlicus Octavia, built by Cn.Octavius,—

enclosing Tkmpi.es of JuriTtK Statok and Jl.no.

This portico occupied the site of a fonner one built

by Q. Caecilius Metellus, after his Macedonian tri­

umph, and called after him Poktici 3 Mktki.u.

It seems most probable that tho two temples before

alluded to were in existence before the time w hen

Metellus erected his portico; but the notices on this

subject in ancient authors are obscure and contra­

dictory. (Becker, llandb. p. 608, seq.) There

can be no doubt, however, that the Porticus Oc-

taviae superseded that of Metellus. (Plin. xxxiv.

14 j cf. Plut, C. Cracch. 4.) It was erected

by Augustus, and dedicated in the name of his

sister; but at what date is uncertain. (Suet. Aug.

29 ; Ov. A. A. iii. 391.) It contained a library,

which was destroyed in the great fire in the reign of

Titus, with all its literary treasures. (Dion Cass,

xlix. 43, lxvi. 24; Suet. III. Gramm. 21.) This

library was probably in the part called the "SchoU

in porticibus Octaviae," and, like the Palatine library,

was sometimes used for assemblies of the senate.

(Plin. xxxv. 10. a. 114, xxxvi. 5, e. 22. s. 28;

Dion Cass. lv. 8.) Hence, it was even called Octavia

Curia, and sometimes Octaviae Opera. The chinch

of S. Angela in I'escaria now stands opposite to its

principal entrance towards the river.

Close to the Porticus Octaviae, on its western

side, lay the Pokticts Philippi, enclosing a tem­

ple of Hercules Musarisi. This templo was

built by M. Fulvius Nobilior, the conquepir of the

Aetolians (Cic. p. Arch. 11), and rebuilt by L. Mar-

cius Philippus, the step-father of Augustus, who also

surrounded it with the portico. (Suet. Aug. 29.)

The name of the temple does not signify, as Becker

supposes (llandb. p. 613), that it was dedicated to

Hercules ami the Muses, but to Hercules as leader of

the Muses (Mooffo-yeTiji), the genitive, Musarum,

depending on Hercules, as appears from coins of

the Gens Pomponia, where he is represented in

that character, with the legend iieucvi.es misa-

itVM,as well as from an inscription in (jruter (inlxx.

3 it

