ILLTB1CUM. ILVA. 39

who were stationed in the strong links of the chain

of military posts which was scattered along the

frontier of the Danube. Inscriptions are extant

on which the records of its occupation by the 7th

and 11th legions can still be read. (Orelli, nots.

3452,3553,4995,4996; comp. Joseph. B.J. ii.

16; Tac Ann. iT. 5, Hist. ii. 11. 85.) There was

at that time no seat of government or capita] ; but

the prorince was divided into regions called " con­

vening :" each region, of which there were three,

named from the towns of Scahdona, Salona, and

Nakosa, was subdivided into numerous "decu-

riae," Thus the " conventus" of Salona had 382

"deeuriae." (Plin. Hi. 26.) Iadera, Salona,

Kaboka, and EriDAURLS, were Roman "eoloniae;"

Apollonia and Corctra, "civitates Uberae."

(Appian, Iltgr. 8; Polyb. ii. 11.) The jurisdiction

of the " pro-praetor," or " legatus," does not appear

to bare extended throughout the whole of Illyricum,

bat merely over the maritime portion. The inland

district either had its own governor, or was under

the praefect of Pannonia. Salona in later times be­

came the capita] of the province (Proeop. B. (J. i. 15;

Hierocles), and the governor was styled " praeses."

(Orelli. no*. 1098, 3599.) The most notable of

lone were Dion Cassius the historian, and his father

Cassias Apronianus.

The warlike youth of Pannonia and Dalmatia

afforded an inexhaustible supply of recruits to the

legions stationed on the banks of the Danube; and

the peasants of Illyricum, who had already given

Claudius. Aurelian, and Probus to the sinking em­

pire, achieved the work of rescuing it by the eleva­

tion of Diocletian and Maximian to the imperial

purple. (Comp. Gibbon, c. xiii.)

After the final division of the empire, Marcellinus,

41 Patrician of the West," occupied the maritime

portion of \V. Illyricum, and built a fleet which

claimed the dominion of the Adriatic. [Dalma­

tia.] E. Illyricum appears to have suffered so

much from the hostilities of the Goths and the op­

pressions of Alaric, who was declared, A. i>. 398,

its master-general (comp. Claudian, in Eutrop. ii.

216, de Bell. Get. 535), that there is a law of

Theodosius II. which exempts the cities of Illyricum

from contributing towards the expenses of the public

spectacles at Constantinople. (Theod. cod. x. tit 8.

a 7.) But though suffering from these inroads,

casual encounters often showed that the people were

not destitute of courage and military (kill. Attila

himself, the terror of both Goths and Romans, was

defeated before the town of Aziinus, a frontier for­

tress of Illyricum. (Priscus, p. 143, ed. Bonn;

comp. Gibbon, c xxxiv.; Finlay, Crtece under the

Htmnn*. p. 203.) The coasts of Illyricum were

considered of great importance to the court of Con­

stantinople. The rich produce transported by the

caravans which reached the X. shores of the Black

Sfa. was then conveyed to Constantinople to be dis­

tributed through W. Europe. Under these circum­

stances, it was of the utmost consequence to defend

the two points of The&salonica and Dyrrhachium,

the two cities which commanded the extremities of

the usual road between Constantinople and the

Adriatic (Tafel, de Thessalonka, p. 221; Hull-

man, GesehicJi. des Btpantischen Handtls, p. 76.)

The open country was abandoned to the Avars and

the ri Slaves, who made permanent settlements

even to the & of the Via Egnatia; but none of

thew settlements were allowed to interfere wit i th ■

hues of communication, without which the trade of

the West wonld have been lost to the Greeks. IIc-

raclius, in his plau for circumscribing the ravages

of the northern enemies of the empire, occupied tie

whole interior of the country, from the borders of

Istria to the territory of Dyrrhachium, with colonies

of the Serbs or W. Slaves. From the settlement of

the Servian Slavonians within the bounds of the

empire we may therefore date, as has been said

above, the earliest encroachments of the lllyrian or

Albanian race on the Hellenic population of the

South. The singular events which occurred in the

reign of Heraclius are not among the least of the

elements which have gone to make up the con­

dition of the modern Greek nation, [E. B. J.]

ILORCI. [Eliocroca.]

ILU'CIA. [Oretani.]

ILURATUM Cl^ovparoy, Ptol. iii. 6. § 6), a

town in the interior of the Tauric Chersonese, pro­

bably somewhat to the N. of Kaffa. [E. B. J.]

ILURCA'ONES. [Ileucaonks.]

ILURCIS. [Gracciuris.]

1LURGEIA, 1LURGIS. [Illituugis.]

ILU'RGETAE. [Ilehgktks.]

1LURO, in Gallia Aquitaniu, is placed by the

Antonine hiu. on the road from Caesaraugusta, in

Spain, to Beneharmum. [Benehakmum.] Iluro

is between Aspaluca [Aspaluca] and Beneharmum.

The modern site of Iluro is OUron, which is the

same name. Olcron is in the department of Bogies

Pyrenees, at the junction of the Gave aVAspe, the

river of Aspaluca, and the Gave dOssau, which by

their union form the Gore dOlcron. Gave is the

name in these parts for the river-valleys of the Py­

renees. In the Kotitia of Gallia, Iluro is the Civitas

Elloronensium. The place was a bishop's see from

the commencement of the sixth century. [G. L.J

I'LURO. 1. (Alora), a city of Baetica, situated

on a hill. (Inscr. ap. Carter, Travels, p. 161; Ukert,

vol. ii. pt. 1. p. 358.)

2. [Laeetani.] [P-S.]

ILU'ZA (to "IAoofo), a town in Phrygia Paca-

tiana, which is mentioned only in very late writers,

and is probably the same as Aludda in the Table of

Peutinger; in which case it was situated between

Sebaste and Acmonia, 25 Roman miles to the east of

the latter town. It was the see of a Christian

hi.-hop. (Hierocl. p. 667; Condi. Constant, iii. p.

534.) [L. S.]

ILVA ('ttoi/a, Ptol.: Elba), called by the Greeks

Aethalia (AifoAio, Strab., Diod.; Ai'fdAfia, I's.

Arist., Philist. ap. Steph. B.), an island in the

Tyrrhenian Sea, lying off the coast of Etniria, oppo­

site to the headland and city of Populonium. It

is much the most important of the islands in this

sea, situated between Corsica and the mainland,

being about 18 miles in length, and 12 in its

greatest breadth. Its outline is extremely irregular,

the mountains which compose it, and which rise in

some parts to a height of above 3000 feet, being

indented by deep gulfs and inlets, bo that its breadth

in some places does not exceed 3 miles. Its circuit

is greatly overstated by Pliny at 100 Roman miles:

the same author gives its distance frutn Popu­

lonium at 10 miles, which is just about correct;

but the width of the strait which separates it from

the nearest point of the mainland (near Piombino')

does not much exceed 6, though estimated by

Dioclorus as 100 stadia (12 j miles), and by Strabo,

through an enormous error, at not less than 300

stadix (Strab. v. p. 223; Diod. v. 13; Plin. iii. 6.

s. 12; Mel. ii. 7. § 19; Scyl. p. 2. § 6; Apoll. Rhod.

D 4

