TAUE1CA CHERSONESUS.

TAUHICA CIIERSOXESUS. lltl

11 at first called Megarice, apparently from tlio

.numstance tlut Mepara was the mother city of the

'titio Heracleots. From these settlers the little

mnwla ire have jost described obtained the name of

!' CiieR9o!icstrs Heracleotica, or Heracleotic

uwnfw, sometimes also called " the small Chor-

jceias" (v putpd, Strab, I c), by way of distinction

v. the great, or Tauric, peninsula.

The original city of Chersonesus seems to hare

tn foioded at the westernmost point of the penin-

ii. otae to the present Cape Fanary. The date

ni occasion of its foundation are not ascertained;

at Xenmanu conjectures that it may have been

•ih about the middle of the fifth century B.C. (Die

fffiram, fe. p. 383). Considerable remains of the

xient city were visible so late as the end of the last

story (Clarke, Trav. 11 pp. 292,seq.; Pallas, ii.

p 70, »eq); but every trace of them bad vanished

hra Manwiew Apostol visited the spot (Reise

wrA Taurirn, p. 62). They were destroyed by a

rtt.n Lieut- Kruse. who used the stones for build-

C and eoDverted the ground into a vineyard (L)u-

• de Montperreax, Voyages. ice. vi. p. 133). The

i sn\ Ctiersonesus, however, had fallen into decay

'fore the time of Strabo; but the new town was

ttrUhtng and appears from the ruins to have been

aud so the W. aide of what is now the Quarantine

arbour of Sebastopol (Neumann, p. 392). The

set vat much damaged towards the end of the

jr*.e*nth century by Olgierd, sovereign of Lithuania,

*t* which time it has been gradually falling into  
r* (Karamsin, Huss. Gesch. v. 13. Germ. tr.).

tw Turks carried away many of its sculptures and

■liLi.tis to adorn Constantinople. Nevertheless, the

ill hough almost entirely deserted, remained for

>■ centuries in so perfect a state that a plan might

ivt been drawn of it at the time when it came into

';>i^rHion of the Russians; but its ruin was soon

i ; i<:ed by its new masters, who blew up the walls

Strayed the graves and temples. (Clarke, ii.

2<»r.) Pliny (iv. 12. s. 2G) gives the circumference

iti walls at b miles; but their outline could still

traced in 1820, and according to Dubois tie Mont-

rreox (vi. 138), was only about a quarter of that

'. It is probable that Pliny may have confounded

* tuwn walls with the wall or rampart which ex-  
kird across the isthmus, which, as we have already

Mrabo describee as being 40 stadia, or 5 miles,

*d. The same writer sjwaks of it in another place  
■US) as being fortified with a wall. This wall

i Cram Ctenua, at the E. extremity of the harbour

S*?*utt,pol to Symbolon (Balaclava) on the S.

■1. md appears to have been made by the Bos-

t:< Lines at a defence against the Scythians. An

wnt of its remaining vestiges is given by Clarke

. fu285, seq.; cf. Seymour, p. 149.)- The whole

ilmttre was anciently covered with gardens and

and the foundations of houses and of the boun-

? t*ILi of fields and gardens may still be traced,

as many remains of the town on the promon-

Utween Quarantine Bay and Streletsha Bat;.

"age* of the principal street show it to have been

1 broad. The town wall on the land side was

v 2 miles long, built of limestone, and 5 or 6

t thick, with 3 towers (Seymour, p. 150).

'■v antiquities and coins have been found in the

of Chersonesus. In the neighbourhood aro

>rn of the most simple kind, hewn in the rock.

*7 are easy of access, and present in this respect  
f ■writable contrast to those at Panticapaeum;

'-, from this cause, nothing but bones have been

found in them, whilst those at Panticapaeum have

yielded valuable antiquities. According to Clarke

(ii. 201, 210), the town of Eupatorium stood close

to Chersonesus, though others have identified it with

Inkerman. About the latter place, the ancient

Ctenus, the rock is pierced all over with the subter­

ranean dwellings of the ancient Tauri. On the top

are the ruins of the castle built by Diophantes,

general of Mithrjdates, to defend the Chersonese

against the Tauro-Scythians. These caverns or

crypts ire now rapidly falling in. (Seymour, p.

140.) Similar caves are found in other parts of the

peninsula.

The Heracleotic Chersonese was noted as the seat

of the savage worship of Diana Tauropolis. The

natives, or Tauri, themselves had a worship of a

similar kind [Tauri] ; but whether it was indige­

nous among them, or whether they borrowed it from

the Dorian Ueracleots who settled here, cannot be

ascertained. The account of the Tauri themselves,

that their virgin goddess was Iphigenia, the daughter

of Agamemnon, would seem to lead to the latter con­

clusion ; though it is well known that the nations of

pagan antiquity readily adopted one another's deities

when any similarity was observable in their rights

and attributes; and from the account of Herodotus

(iv. 103) it might perhaps be inferred that this

horrible worship existed among the Tauri before the

arrival of the Greeks. Artemis was a peculiarly

Dorian deity, and was worshipped in several parts of

Greece with human sacrifices. There was a tradi­

tion that the town of Chersonesus was founded by

Artemis herself. The Heracleot Chersonites erected

a famous temple on a headland which took the name

of Parthenium from it. Strabo however merely calls

the Parthenium '* the temple of the virgin, a certain

daemon'* (p. 308), and does not mention Artemis.

Opinions vary as to which is the real promontory of

Parthenium. Many seek it at cape Fanary or

Chersonese, which seems too near the town of Cher­

sonesus, as Strabo places the temple at the distance

of 100 stadia from the town, though Fanary answ ers

to his description in other re>pects. Clarke and

Pallas identify it with the A ia Bartm or " Sacred

Promontory** (Clarke, ii. p. 286, and note), between

Cape Fioltnteand Balaclara,\rh\cht besides its name,

has also a ruin to recommend it; though the latter

claim to notice ia shared by C. FioUnte. Dubois de

Montperreux (vi. p. 194, sq.) thinks that the temple

limy have stood on the spot now occupied by the

monastery of St. George; whilst Neumann, apain

places it on the headland a little to the NW. of C.

FioUnte. It will be seen that these opinions rcr-t

on little more than conjecture. On the coins of the

Heracleotic Chersonese the image of Artemis occurs

by far the most frequently. She sometimes apj>ears

with Apollo, sometimes with Hercules, the patron

hero of the mother city, but more generally alone,

and always as the goddess of the chase, never as

Selene (Von Kohne, in the Memoirs of the Ar­

chaeology, and Numism. Society of St. Pttersbtny,

vol. ii. ap. Neumann, p. 420). On other coins a tish

is frequently seen ; and one has a plough on the

obverse, and an ear of corn between two fishes on the

reverse (/6.). The bays of the Heracleotic penin­

sula abound with fish, which formed a great part of

the riches of the country.

Of the history of the Heracleotic Chersonesus

we know but little, but it may perhaja be in­

ferred from tlie Inscription of Agancles that

its constitution was republican. It was iinpor-

4 B 4

