ROMA. 7!«7 ROMA.

Blanch; " In ecclesia vera beatonim Cosmae ct

is tribus Fatis," 4c. Id. V. lladr. ib. p. 254.)

rre perhaps the name of lemplum fatale applied

la* temple of Janus.

Tit last object which we shall hare to describe

tie farum ii the Colih.x of Phocas. Whilst the

rues monuments of Julius and Augustus, the

! in* of the empire, have vanished, this pillar,

.••»! in the Tear 608 by Smaragdus, exarch of

1 ii. to one of the meanest and most hateful of

r unami, still rears its head to testify the low

■ to which Rome had fallen. It appears from

..■tription, which will be found in Canina (/'..«.

-- p. ZI3) and Bunsen (Betrkr. vol. iii. p. 271),

a nit ataroe of Phocas stood upon the summit.

Tir* of Pbocaa has been erased from this co-

a, probably by Heraclius; but the date suffl-

'j* «bowa that it must have been dedicated to

Previously to the discovery of this inscription,

a happened in 1813, it was thought that the

■ a betaged to some bnilding ; and indeed it

.m mktf taken from one, as the workmanship

it anperior to what could have been executed

■ - tune of Phocas. Byron alludes to it as the

aetSM column with a buried base." In the ex-

Ma made in 1816, at the expense of the

rm of Devonshire, the pedestal was discovered

an a raised basis with steps of very in-

(Murrav's Handbook of Home,

t) It may be remarked that this column

i the (arum to have been in its ancient state,

■rarambered with rubbish, at the cotnmence-

af the 7th century. Between this pillar and

vyk *f the Basilica Julia are throe large bases

mt far statues.

V. Tux Imperial Fora.

-m Jmbmrm.—As Rome increased in size, its  
l-exm is no longer capable of accommodating

Uitsdes that resorted to it on mercantile or

imaaeas; and we have seen that attempts were

saalt to afford increased accommodation by

r Tariosa baucilicae around it. Under the

.. r^rc Kome had attained to enormous great-

■w- thr>e did not suffice, and several new fora

a#trocte«l by various emperors; as the Forum

is <x Julium. the Forum Augusti, the Forum

er Tranaitorinm, and lastly the Forum Tra-

TW f4rtr~*l business, however, was still con-

• n* ancient forum, and tho principal use of

w fas was aa courts of justice. Probably

^raqra of them was that they should be

; arsmaesits of their founders. In most

-T «bo not ao much assume the aspect of a  
a'taat of a temple within an enclosed space,

■n, the bum of Trajan being the only one

„- 1Mnf a basilic*. From this characteristic

. r.rt. the magnificent temple of Peace,

a* I »l assail without any design of its being

acrd rx> the ptirpoMs of a forum, obtained in

-«-> the names of Forum Vespasiani and

iV-u.

-

after

at m

n B-

y \tml

is- tfa

I the

■ of tbia kind was that of Caesar,

or Vests Gemitiiix, which

I before) the breaking out of the Civil

the battle of Pbarsalus the whole plan

ranged- It was dedicated after his

C. 45. before it was finished, and indeed

it was necessary to substitute a plaster

ie of Venus, which afterwards

of the temple. (PUn. xxxv.

45.) Caesar did not live to see it completed, and

it was finished by Augustus, as we leam from the

Motaaneatum Ancyranum. We are told by Appian

(B. C. ii. 102) that tho temple was surrounded

with an open space, or rfatvos, and that it was not

destined for traffic but for the transaction of legal

business. As it stood in the very heart of the city

Caesar was compelled to lay out immense sums in

purchasing the area for it, which alone is said to

have cost him "super H. 8. millies," or about

900,000/. sterling. (Suet. Cats. 26; Plin. xxxvi.

24.) Yet it was smaller than the ancient forum,

which now, in contradistinction to that of Caesar,

obtained the name of Forum Magnum. (Dion Cass,

xliii. 22.)

No vestige of the Forum Julium has survived to

modern times, and very various opinions have been'

entertained with regard to its exact site; although

most topographers have agreed in placing it behind

the N. side of the Forum Romanum, but on sites

varying along its whole extent. Nardini was the

first who pointed to its correct situation behind the

church of Sta Martina, but it was reserved for

Canina to adduce the proof.

We must here revert to a letter of Cicero's (ad

Alt. iv. 16), which we had occasion to quote when

speaking of the restoration of the Basilica Aemilia

under the forum of the Republic. It has an im­

portant passage with regard to the situation of the

Forum Julium, but unfortunately so obscurely worded

as to have proved quite a crux to the interpreters.

It appears to have been written in n. c. 54, and

runs as follows: "Paullus in medio foro basilicam

jam paene texuit iisdem antiquis columnis; illam-

autem quam locavit facit magnificentissimam. Quid

quaeris? nihil gratius illo monumento, nihil glo-

riosius. Itaque Caesaris amici (me dico et Oppium,

dimmparis licet) in monumentum illud, quod tu

tollere laudibus solebas, ut forum laxaremus et

usque ad atrium Libertatis explicaremus, contem-

psimus sexcenties it. s. Cum privatis non potent

transigi minors pecunia. Efficiemus rem glorio-

sissitnnm: nam in Campo Martio septa tributis

comitiis marmorea sumus et tecta fact mi eaque

cingemus excelsa porticu," &c. Of these words

Becker has given two different interpretations.

He first imagined (Handb. p. 302, scq.) that Cicero

was speaking only of two buildings: the Basilica

Aemilia, which Paullus was restoring, and a new

basilica, which the same person was building with

Caesar's money, and which was afterwards named

the Basilica Julia. But before he had finished his

work he altered his mind, and at p. 460 pronounces

his opinion that Cicero was speaking of no fewer

than four different edifices: 1st, the Basilica Paulli

(" Paullus—Columnis"); 2nd, the Basilica Julia(''il­

lam—gloriosius "); 3rd, the Forum Julium (" Itaque

—pecunia"); 4th, the Septa Julia (•' Efficiemus,"

&c). With all these views, except the second, we are

inclined to agree; but we do not think it probable

that Paullus would be constructing two basilicao at

the same time; nor do we perceive how a new one

only then in progress could have been a monument

that Atticus had been accustomed to praise. The

chief beauty of the basilica of Paullus was derived

from its columns (" Nonue inter magnifica dicanms

basilicam Paulli columnis e Phrygibus mirabilem,"

Plin. xxxvi. 24. s. 1); and though it had undergone

two or three subsequent restorations before the time

of Pliny, we arc nevertheless inclined to think that

I tho columns praised by him were the very same

