PHOENICIA.

PHOENICIA. 617

A; ifota. <W xir. 285.) The importation of

■iy triakeU, &c, in Phoenician ships, is con-

iiladed to in the Homeric poems; but the

.cRffoa* ire as constantly described as a crafty

seal iw, who were ever bent on entrapping the

w. (A vi. 290. xxiii. 743, &c.) It would

ikurd, Werer, to suppose that they were always

talent in their dealings. Ezekiel (xxvii.)

w* t glowing picture of their commerce and of

1 ^tuuur of their vessels. From his description

ui fith«r the following particulars. Tho trade

iu I'lweoiciani with the Erythraean sea, com-

*i myrrh, frankincense, precious stones,  
! r&saud. The coast of Africa S. of Bab-el-

jic-daced frankincense and spices superior

i-w rf Arabia. The cotton garments mentioned

t:- pnrpLrf were probably Indian fabrics, and

"Shfbt irun" Indian steel. Ezekiel mentions

'. -ra u forming their trade with Egypt, but

* > * that tbey aiw drew their supplies of corn  
i lirag. (Isaiah, xxiii. 3.) In return for these

i ■ Urt, the Phoenicians supplied the Egyptians

. * v. with asphalt for their embalmments, and

*4f with incense fur their temples. (Herod.  
I, Dial xix. 99.) Their traffic with Syria and

'r'UT-i», he&ules the indigenous products of

't-ci^riw, probably included Indian articles,

ta <an» by that route. Babylon, which is called

Laid (xrii. 4) a city of merchants, must have

i1 fjore of peat trade, and besides the traffic

I l rxrried on by means of its canal communi-

a »ck the Tigris, had manufactures of its own,

T*i'f eaibn«dr-nt>. With Nineveh also, while

vjW, the Phoenicians must have had an ex-

t't aTOmerre. The neighbouring Judaea fur-

eJ *j*q with wheat, grape-honey, oil, and balm;

'-n the pastoral nations of Arabia they pro-

: urrp jflj goats. Proceeding to more northern

•« tnd Damascus supplying them with

'»-W and the precious wiue of Helbon. Ar-

j. iii the countries bordering on the southern and

otm of the Euxine—the modern Georgia

t^tjifia— furnished horses, mules, and slaves;

t'.-:*r and the tunny fish. Phoenicia had

■ttatty great commercial intercourse with

la a is evident from the fact that the Grecian

* lr the principal objects of oriental commerce,  
avrr tpkes and perfumes, were derived from

iw^tcmii. (Herod, iii. 111.) In the time

>'•."<.* a Phoenician vessel seems regularly to

**fia4 the Peiraeeua. (Xenopt). Otcon. c. 8.)  
- «r Tsrtessu.*, the modern Andalusia, was

* -i- abenoe the Phoenicians der.ved their  
-• c, uo. and lead. Silver was so abundant

ta cdQBtry tliat tbey substituted it for the

« <ic*l which served as anchors. At a later

i pncored their tin from Britain. They

if iw tu have trailed on the NW. coast of

■ s> fir u Senegal, as well as to the Fortunate

^ * (tmaries. They must also, of course,

■rru^i ic «treat trade with their many colonies,

i tam will be occasion to enumerate in the

* v teflon. It is remarkable that Ezekiel  
"! ^<rihea tbe nations a--* bringing their wares

* -«xiriaiu. and the latter are not mentioned  
ank to fetch them. The caravan trade

^ tfeai *hae hare been in the hands of the

k *frm and Arabian tribes by whom the

r*-w wtre surrounded, and the business of

how esamsted ta distributing by voyages to

--ci cauls of the Mediterranean tbe articles

I which haa thus been brought to them overland.

(Herod, i. 1.) At a later period, however, they

■ seem to have themselves engaged in the caravan

trade, and we have already mentioned their journeys

in the track of Alexander. Their pedlars, or retail

dealers, probably traversed Syria and Palestine from

the earliest times. (Proverbs, xxxi. 24; JsaiaK,

xxiii. 8.) In some foreign towns the Phoenicians

had factories, or settlements for the purposes of

trade. Thus the Tynans had a tish-market at

Jerusalem (Nehemiah, xiu. 16), chiefly perhaps for

the salted tunnies which they brought from the

Euxine. They had also a settlement at Memphis

(Herod, ii. 112), and, after the close of the wars

between the Greeks and Persians, at Athens, as

already related, as well as in other places.

In their original seats on the Persian Gulf the

Phoenicians used only rafts (Plin. vii. 57); but on

the coasts of the Mediterranean they constructed

regular vessels. In their early voyages, which

combined piracy with trade, they probably employed

the penteconter, a long and swift vessel of 50 oars.

(Comp. Herod, i. 163.) The trireme, or ship of war,

and gaulos, or tub-like merchantman adapted for

stowage, which took its name from a milk-pail,

were later inventions. (Ibid. iii. 136.) The excel­

lent arrangements of a Phoenician vessel are de­

scribed in a passage of Xenophon before cited.

(Oecon. 8 ; cf. Heliodor. v. 18 ; Isaiah, ii. 16.) We

have already described the Paiaeci, or figure-heads

of their vessels. The Phoenicians were the first to

steer by observation of the stars (Plin. vii. 56;

Manil. L 297, sqq-); and could thus venture out to

sea whilst the Greeks and Konians were still creeping

along the coast. Astronomy indeed had been pre­

viously studied by the Egyptians and Babylonians,

but the Phoenicians were the first who applied

arithmetic to it, and thus made it practically u>eful.

i (Strab. xvi. 757.) Herodotus (iv. 42) relates a

story that, at the instance of Neco, king of Egypt, a

Phoenician vessel circumnavigated Africa, netting

off from the Red Sea and returning by the Mediter­

ranean; and though the father of history doubted

the account himself, yet the details which he gives

are in themselves so probable, and the assertion of

the circumnavigators that they hud the sun on their

right hand, or to the N. of them, as must really

have been the case, is so unlikely to have been in­

vented, that there seems to be no good reason for

doubting the achievement. (Comp. Ropnell, Geogr. of

Herodotus, p. 682, sqq.; Grote, Hist, of Greece,

iii. pp. 377, sqq.)

IX. Colonies.

The foundation of colonies forms so marked a

feature in Phoenician history, that it is necessary to

give a general sketch of the colonial system of the

Phoenicians, although an account of each settlement

appears under its proper head. Their position made

them a commercial and maritime people, and the

nature of their country, which would not admit of

a great increase of inhabitants, led them to plant

colonies. Before the rise of the maritime power of

the Greeks they had the command of the sea for

many centuries, and their colonisation thus proceeded

without interruption. Their settlements, like those

of the Greeks, were of the true nature of colonies,

and not, like the Roman system, mere military occu­

pations , that is, a portion of the population migrated

to and settled in these distant possessions. Hence

they resembled our own colonies in America or

