310 MEGALOPOLIS. MEGARA.

in the time of Pausanias, bat in Zoetia there still

remained & temple of Deinetcr and Artemis. Paro-

rcia probably occupied the site of I\iUomiri. Titv-

kaki.'M (©4/ooioi*) was founded by a son of Lycaon,

and may be placed at Palamdri, at the foot of the

mountain. The other side road branched off from

Methydrium to the right, ascending to the fountain

Cui'Xi (Kpoyfof). and from thence descending 30

stadia to tlie tomb of Callisto, a lofty mound of earth,

upon which was a temple ot Artemis Calliste. Here

Pausanias turned to the left, and at the distance of

25 stadia from this tnmb he reached Ankho9A

('Avf^wtra), on the direct road from Megalopolis to

Methydrium. As Anemosa was 100 stadia from

Tricoloni and 57 from Methydrium. it may be placed

at Ziboviti. Beyond Anemosa the road passed over

the mountain Phalanthum, upon which were the

ruins of the town I'liALANTItrs (♦oiA<u»flor). On

the other side of this mountain was the plain of

l'olus, and near it Schoexps (3x°"'<,''')i which

was called from a Boeotian of this name : near Schoe-

nus were the race-grounds of Atalanta. Methydrium

was the next phice. [Methydhil'm.] (Paus. viii.

35 §5. seq.)

5. The road ti Maenalus, led along the Ilelisson

to the foot of Mt. Maenalus. In leaving the city it

first ran through a marshy district, which was here

called Hclos; it then entered a narrow valley, in

which was a place called Paliscius (IloAio-icioj),

where a mountain torrent, named Elaphus, flowed

into the Ilelisson on the left: this is the torrent

which flows from Valtctzi. Here a side road ran

along the left bank of the Elaphus, for 20 stadia,

to Pkkaktiieis (n«piu8tij), where was a temple of

Pan; it must have stood near Rakhamyta. But

the direct road crossed the Elaphus, and entered the

Maenalian plain, at the distance of 15 stadia from

the Elaphus. This number, however, is much too

small, as it is 5 geographical miles from the junc­

tion of the Elaphus with the Hclisson into the Mae­

nalian plain. (I,rnke, J'eloponneiiaca, p. 242;

Paus. viii. 36. § 5, seq.)

6. The road to Pliiiraloia crossed the Alpheius

at the distance of 20 stadia from Megalopolis. Two

stadia from the Alpheius were the ruins of Maca-

keae, 7 Btadia further those of Dabkae, ud

again 7 stadia the hill Acacesius, upon which

stood the city Acacesil'M. At the distance of 4

stadia from Acacesium, was the temple of Despoena,

one of the most celebrated sanctuaries in the Pelo­

ponnesus, and of which Pausanias has given a parti­

cular description. Adjoining, was the temple of

Pan, above which stood the ancient city of l.vco-

fci'KA. Between Lycosura and the river Plalaniston,

which was 30 stadia from Phigaleia, Pausanias

mentions no object, though the direct distance be­

tween Lycosura and this river is 9 geographical

miles. (Paus. viii. 30. §§ 9—39.)

7. The road to Palhintium and Tegea, passed

first through Ladoceia, a subuib of Megalopolis,

next by the ruins of Haemoniak [see Vol. I.

p. 192, b.] ; beyond which, to the ri^'lit of the road,

were the ruins of Okestiiasiim; while upon the

direc: road were the villages of Apiutontsii'M and

Atiiksaei'M; and 20 stadia beyond the Utter the

ruins of Aska, near which were the sources of the

Alpheius and the Eurotaa. Kroin Asea there was

an ascent to the mountain called Borcium, upon

which was the Choma, marking the boundaries of

Megalopolis, Pallantiuin, and Tegca. (Paus. viii.

44.)

8. The rood to Heraea was the one by which

Pausanias travelled to Megalopolis, and conse-

quently is described by him in an inverse direction

to that of the others. This was the great Rerr-aa

road through the Peloponnesus, which occurs in the

Peutioger Table. After leaving Heraea, the tint

place was Melaeneae, which in the time of Pso-

sanias was deserted and covered with water. Kory

stadia above Melaeneac was Bi/ritAOIt'M, ai tlst

sources of the river Buphagns, near which were lb*

boundaries of Heraea and Megalopolis. Next to

Buphagium came the village Makatiia, and then

Gortys. Further on was the sepulchre of tins*

slain in battle against Cleomenes, and called Pa-

raebahil'M (riapaigaTioi'), because Cleomenes vi.w

lated his covenant with them. On the right ot the

road were the ruins of Bbkkthk, and on the other

side of the Alpheius the ruins of TkaI'F-71 s. De­

scending from thence towards the Alpheius was a

place called Bathos. Ten stadia further was Ka­

hilis; beyond which, after crossing the Alpliriua,

the traveller came to Thocnia, a descried city

standing upon a height above the Aminius. a tri­

butary of the Helisson. (Paus. viii. 26 § 8, Tifi.

2—8.)

(Leake, Morta, vol. ii. p. 29. seq. p. 289, aeo^,

Peloponnetiaca, p. 231, seq.: Bolilaye, /kVAeisrA**,

ffc. p. 167, seq.; Koss, Reisen im J'tlvpcimrt. p.

74, seq.; Curtius, Pelopomtna, vol. i. p. 281,

seq.)

COIN OF MEGALOPOLIS.

MEGALOPOLIS. l.InCaria. [AriiBommaj.]

2. In Pontus. [Sebartia.]

ME'GAItA, sometimes calfed, for distincti-«i»

sake, MEGARA HYBI.AEA(TAMr7as«: Elk. *.-

yaptvi or MrycuTcvf 'TtfAaTof, Megarrnsis). a citj of

Sicily, situated on the E. coast of the island, be­

tween Syracuse and Catana, in the deep bay fanned

by the Xiphonian promontory. It was unques­

tionably a Greek colony, deriving its origin {nan

the Megara in Greece Proper; and Um cirraun-

stances attending its foundation are related in detail

by Thucydidea. He tells us that a colony from Me­

gara, under the command of a leader named l.au>ii\

arrived in Sicily about the time that Leontini ii>

fotinded by the Chalcidic colonists, and settled

themselves first near the mouth of the river Pac-

tagias, at a place called Trotilus. Krom thence they

removed to* Leontini itself, where tbey dwelt fur a

time together with the Chalcidians; but were m>«i

afterwards expelled by them, and next established

themselves on the promontory or peninsula taf

Thapsus, near Syracuse. Hence they again removtsl

after the death of Lam is. and, at the suggestion <<

llyblon, a Sicilian chief of the surrounding country,

finally settled at a place afterwards called the lly-

blaean Megara. (Thuc. ri. 4.) Srymnna Ch.as

follows a different tradition, as he descrile* lb* eata-

blishment of the Chalcidians at Xaios and that (

the Mrgarians at Hybla as contemporary, and b.cfi

preceding the fotaidation of Syracuse, B. c 734.

Strabo also adopts the winie view of the sut>_ect_ as

he represents Megara as founded about the

