IRIS. ISAURIA. 65

now called YecJal or Yeldl Irmalc. (Hamilton, Re­

searches, vol. i. p. 340.) [L. S.]

IRIS. [Iernk.]

I KITS or IRA ("Ipot or'Ipd), a town of Malis, of

uncertain site, (Steph. B. *. w. ; Lycophr. 903.)

IS ("It, Herod, i. 179), a town of Mesopotamia,

f i*ht days' journey N. of Babylon, situated, accord­

ing: to Herodotus, on a stream of the same name,

which brought down the bitumen which was used in

the construction of the walls of Babylon. There is

no reason to doubt that it is represented by the

lO'xlern Hit. There does not appear to be any river

at present at Hit, but a small stream may have been

easily blocked up by the sand of ages. There are

still bitumen springs in the neighbourhood of this

place. It has been conjectured that the 'l£avvwir6-

ro\tf of Isidorus (p. 5) refers to the same town.

(Kilter, Erdhunde, vol. ii. p. 148; Kennell, Geogr.

of Herod, p. 552.) [V.]

1SACA, in Britain, a river mentioned by Ptolemy

(ii. 3. § 4) as lying west of the outlet of the Ta-

marus (Tamar). In the Monumenta Britannica,

Isacae ostia are identified with Weymouth, and also

with pxmouth; most probably the latter, name for

nan*, as well as place for place. In the Geographer

of Ravenna the form is Isca, which is preferable.

[Isca.] [R. G. L.]

ISAllICI (EiiaJiKOi), a people whom Strabo

(ii. p. 506) couples with the Troglodytae and other

tribes of the Caucasus. The name may imply some

ilellrtuc fancy about savage justice and virtue.

(Coinp. Groskurd, adloc.) [E. B. J.]

ISAJIN'IUM, in Ireland, mentioned by Ptolemy

(ii. 2. j S) m a promontory north of the Bubinda

(river Bo*me) = St. Johns Foreland, Clogher Head,

Ihmany Point, BalUuhan Point (?). [R. G. L.]

ISANNAVATIA, in Britain, mentioned in the

6th Itinerary as lying between Lactodurum and

TnprtUium. It is a name of some difficulty, since

neither of the places on each side of it has been

identified. (See tw.) In the Geographer of Ra­

venna we find a Bannovallum, and in the 8th Itine­

rary a Bannovantum. Probably these two names

are identical. At any rate, Bannovantum = Isanna­

vatia, i-inee each is 28 miles from Magiovinium.

Thus, in the 6th Itinerary, we have:—

Magiovinio M. P.

Lactodoro - -' xvi.

Isannavatia - - xii=xxviii.

And in the 8th :— M. P.

Bannavanto

Magiuvinio - - xxviii.

It is only safe to say that Isannavatia was a town in

the southern part of Northamptonshire, probably

Itor+ntry. The Itinerary in which it occurs has

only two names beyond doubt, viz. Verulamium and

Lindnm (St. A tban's and Lincoln). Daventry, how­

ever, is Horsley's identification. In more than one

map of Roman Britain, Bannovallum is placed in

Lincolnshire- This is because it is, in the first place,

■rparated fmin Bannovantum, and then fixed on the

rivrr Bum, a Lincolnshire river. This is the meaning

< f Uvnicuslle being given as its equivalent. The

rlian-re, however, and the assumption, are equally

gratuitous. [R. G. L.]

rSARA, the river. 1. [Insula.]

2. The Lsara, which was a branch of the Seqnana,

has its name preserved in the Celtic name of a place

which was on it, named Briva Isarae. [Bkiva

Isabae.] Tlie Celtic element /* has become Oise,

the modern came of the river, which is the same

vol. n.

word as the English Owe. D'Anvillc says that the

name Isara in the middle ages became Esia or Aesia.

Vibius Sequester mentions a river Esia which flows

into the Sequana; but D'Anville suspects the passage

to be an interpolation, though it is impossible to

judge what is interpolation in such a strange book as

Vibius Sequester. Oberlin, the editor of Vibius

Sequester, maintains the passage to be genuine (p.

110). [G. L.]

3. [Lutu.]

ISARCI, a Rhaetian tribe dwelling about the

mouth of the river Isarus (Plin. iii. 24), from which

it appears to have derived its name. [L. S.]

ISARGUS. [Ilargus.]

ISARUS ("lo-aooi : the Isar), a river of the

Rhaetian Alps, flowing from an Alpine lake, and in

a southern direction until it joins the Athesis near

Pons Drusi. (Strab. iv. p. 207, where the "laapos

(or o) is said to receive the Atagis (Athesis); either

a mistake of Strabo himself, or by a transcriber

transposing tho names. Coinp. Ilakus.) [L. S.]

ISAURA (t4 "laavpa: Eth. 'Io*«up*us), the ca­

pital of Isauria, situated iu the south-west of the

country; it was a wealthy, populous, and well-forti­

fied city at the foot of Mount Taurus. Of its earlier

history nothing is known; but we learn from Dio-

dorus (xviii. 22) that when it was besieged by Pcr-

diccas, and the inhabitants were no longer able to

hold out, they set fire to the city, and destroyed

themselves with all they possessed. Large quantities

of molten gold were found afterwards by the Mace­

donians among the ashes and ruins. The town was

rebuilt, but was destroyed a second time by the Ro­

man Servilius Isauricus, and thenceforth it remained

a heap of ruins. Strabo (xii. p. 568) states that

the place was ceded by the Romans to Amyntas of

Galatia, who built out of the ruins of the ancient

city a new one in the neighbourhood, which he sur­

rounded with a wall; but he did not live to complete

the work. In the third century of our nera isaura

was the residence of the rival emperor Trebellianus

(Trebell. Poll. XXX. Ttjran. 25); but in the time

of Amrnianus Marccllinus (xiv. 8) nearly all traces

of its former magnificence had vanished. At a later

period it is still mentioned, under the name Isauro-

polis, as a town in the province of Lycaonia. (Hierocl.

p. 675; Concil. Chalced. p. 673; comp. Strab. xiv,

p. 665; Ptol. v. 4. § 12; Steph. B. s. v.; Plin. v.

27.) Of Old Isaura no ruins appear to be found,

though DAnvillc and others have identified it with

the modern Bei Shcher; they also believe that Seidi

Shelter occupies the site of New Isaura, while some

travellers regard Serki Serai as the representative

of New Isaura; but Hamilton (Researches, vol. ii.

pp. 330, foil.) has given good reasons for thinking

that certain ruins, among which are the remains of

a triumphal arch of the emperor Hadrian and a gate­

way, on a hill near the village of Olou Bounar mark

the site of New Isaura. The walls of the city can

still be traced all around the place. The Isaurians

were a people of robbers, and the site of their city

was particularly favourable to such a m<«le of life.

[Isauria.] [L. S.]

ISAU'KIA (h \aavfia), a district in Asia Minor,

bordering in the east on Lycaonia, in the north on

Phrygia, in the west on Pisidia, and in the south on

Cilicia and Pamphylia. Its inhabitants, living in a

wild and rugged mountainous country, were littlo

known to the civilised nations of antiquity. The

country contained but few towns, which existed

especially in the northern part, which was less

