MACISTUS. 213 MACORABA.

•a heavy and foggy, showery and hot. but pro­

ducing excellent fruit. The cultivation of the vine

was peculiar. They were planted in the marches,

the soil necessary for their sustenance being placed

in wicker baskets. They would sometimes drift

from their moorings, and were thrust back to their

places with poles. [G. W.]

MACISTUS or MACISTUM (McWtos, to

Kiiturror -. £th. Maxfo-Tios), a town of Triphylia,

in Elis, said to have been also called Platan istus.

(nXccrartoTovs, Strab. viii. p. 345.) It was origi­

nally inhabited by the Paroreatae and Caucones,

who were driven out by the Minyae. (Strab. /. c.;

Herod, iv. 148.) It was afterwards subdued by the

Kleians, and became one of their dependent town­

ships whose history is given under Lkpkkum. In

the time of Strabo, it was no longer inhabited (viii.

p. 349). Macistus was situated upon a lofty hill

in the north of Triphylia, and appears to have been

the chief town in the north of the district, as

Lepreum was in the south. That Macistus was in

the north of Triphylia appears from several circum­

stances. Strabo describes its territory, the Macistia,

as bordering upon Pisatis. (Strab. viii. p. 343.)

Agis, in his invasion of the territory of Elis, in B. c.

400. wlien he entered Triphylia through the Anion

of Messenia, was first joined by the Lepreatae, next

by the Macistii, and then by the Epitalii on the

Alpheiua. (Xen. Htll. iii. 2. § 25.) Stephanus

places Macistus to the westward of the Lepreatis

(Stepli. B. t. ».); but this is obviously an error, as

Arcadia bordered upon the Lepreatis in that direc­

tion. Macistus would appear to have been in the

neighbourhood of Sainicum upon the coast, as it had

the superintendence of the celebrated temple of the

Simian Poseidon at this place. (Stiab. viii. p. 343.)

From these circumstances there can be little doubt

that Macistus was situated upon the heights of

KhaMJfa.

It Li worthy of notice that Pausanias and Polybius

mention only Samicum, and Xenophon only Macistus.

This fact, taken in connection with the Macistians

laving the superintendence of the temple of the

Simian Poseidon, has led to the conjecture that upon

the decay of Samoa upon the coast, the Minyani

built Macistus upon the heights above; but that the

ancient name of the place was afterwards revived in

the form of Samicum. The Macistians had a temple

«f Hercules situated upon the coast near the Acidon.

(Strab. viii. p. 348.)

(Lrf-ake, Morea, vol. ii. p. 206; Pelopormesuica,

p. 217; Boblaye, Hecherchei, <fc., p. 135; Curtius,

I'elnprrmiaoa, voL ii. p. 83.)

MACJJA (Macro), an inland town of Arabia

Felix, according to Ptolemy (vi. 7.), who places it

in Ut. 67°, long. 28° 45', near the Aelanitic gulf

of the Bed Sea, now the GulfofAkaba. [G. W.]

MACORABA (MaxopASa), an inland city of

Arabia Felix, placed by Ptolemy in lat. 73° 20',

king. 22°, universally admitted to be the ancient

classical representative of the modern Mekka or

Mecca, which Mr. For-ter holds to be an idiomatic

abbreviation of Macboraba, identical with Arabic

"Mecharab," "the warlike city," or "the city of

the Harb." {Grog, of Arabia, vol. i. pp. 265, 266.)

A very high antiquity is claimed for this city in

the native traditions, but the absence of all authentic

notices of it in the ancient geographers must be

allowed to disprove its claim to notoriety on account

tf its sanctity at any very remote period. The

terrilury of MtkJca was, according to universal

Arabian history or tradition, the central seat of the

kingdom of Jorham and the Jorhamites, descendants

of the Johtamite patriarch Sherah, the Jerah of the

book of Genesis (x. 26), who in the earliest times

were the sovereigns of Mekka, the guardians of the

Caaba, and the superintendents of the idolatrous

sacrifices in the valley of Mina, from whence they

derived their classical synonym Minaki. It is

quite uncertain when they were superseded by the

Ishmaelite Arabs of the family of Kedar, whose

descendants, according to immemorial Arabic tra­

dition, settled in the Hedjaz; and one tribe of whom

was named Kortisk (collegit undique), " quod circa

Meccam, congregati degerentr (Canus ap. Golium,

in voc., cited by Forster, Geog. of Arabia, vol. i.

p. 248, n.) This tribe, however, from which Mo­

hammed sprung, had been for centuries the guardians

of the Caaba, and lords of Mekka, prior to his ap­

pearance : for if the very plausible etymology and

import of the classical name, as above given, be cor­

rect, and the Beni-Harb was, as Mr. Forster has

elaborately proved, a synonym for the sons of Kedar,

it will follow that they had succeeded in fixing

their name to the capital some time before it ap­

peared in Ptolemy's list, nor can any traces of a

more ancient name be discovered, nor any notices

of the ancient city, further than the bare mention

of its name by the Alexandrian geographer.

"Mekka, sometimes also called Bekka, which

words are synonymous, and signify a place of great

concourse, is certainly one of the most ancient cities

in the world. It is by some thought to be the Mesa

of Scripture (Gen. x. 30), a name not unknown to

the Arabians, and supposed to be taken from one of

lshmael's sons" (Gen. xxv. 15). (Sale's Koran,

Preliminary Discourse, sect. i. p. 4.) Its situation

is thus described by Burckhardt: —" The town is

situated in a valley, narrow and sandy, the main

direction of which is from north to south; but it

inclines towards the north-west near the southern

extremity of the town. In breadth this valley

varies from one hundred to seven hundred paces,

the chief part of the city being placed where the

valley is most broad. The town itself covers a

space of about 1500 paces in length ; .... but the

whole extent of ground comprehended under the

denomination of Mekka" (i. e. including the suburbs)

"amounts to 3500 paces. The mountains enclosing

this valley (which before the town was built the

Arabs had named Wady Mekka or Bekka) are from

200 to 500 feet in height, completely barren and

destitute of trees Most of the town is situated

in the valley itself; but there are also parts built

on the sides of the mountains, principally of the

eastern chain, where the primitive habitations of

the Koreysh and the ancient town appear to have

been placed." It is described as a handsome town;

with streets broader, and stone houses more lofty,

than in other Eastern cities: but since the decline of

the pilgrimage "numerous buildings in the outskirts

have fallen completely into ruin, and the town itself

exhibits in every street houses rapidly decaying."

Its population has declined in proportion. The results

of Burckhardt's inquiries gave "between 25,000

and 30,000 stationary inhabitants for the population

of the city and suburbs, besides from 3000 to

4000 Abyssinians and black slaves: its habitations

are capable of containing three times this number."

This estimate, however, shows a considerable increase

within the last three centuries; for "in the time of

Sultan Selym I. (in A. II. 923, i. e. A.D. 1517) a

