OLYMPIA. 477 OLYMPIA.

7) > TiucAon, a building belonging to the

«HptrinttmiCTts of the sacrifices (Paus.

8). lu poutna is uncertain.

ir llywlamiun, named frum Hi|>pc«l.imri.i.

benVd here, was within the Altis near the

fit. (Pais. vi. 20. § 7.)

Til temple of Ike Olympian EUeithyia

J i: ,'ir- to have stood on the neck of

Cnam. (Psas. it 20. § 2.)

Tmpltof the Olympian Aphrodite was

rfKleilhyia. (Paus. vi. 20. § 6.)

Tkmri or Treasuries, ten in number,

bm at Delphi, built by different cities,

of their dedicator)' offerings. They

br Paasanias as standing to the north

at the foot of Mount Cronius, upon

of the stone pore* (Paus. vi. 19. § 1).

aloe* of Zeus, erected from the pro-

levied open athletae. who had violated

of the games. They stood upon a

at the foot of Mount Cronius, to the

• fenm going from the Metroum to the

I (Pwu. v. 21. § 2.)

Tie Studio of rheidias, which was outside

fc,«td near the Pom pic entrance. (Paus. v.

|

TyUanlanm, bnilt by Leonidas, a native,

tat Stabo of Pheidiaa. Here the Roman

xn lodged in the time of Pausanias

TW CjnmsnaK, also outside the Altis, and

feMrtliero entrance into it. (Pans. vi. 21.

r the Gymnasium was (19) the Pataettra.

11. The Stadium and the Hippodrome

Nsf the most important sites at Olympia, as

f&rjbmed the place of exhibition for all

b*pc contests. Their position cannot be

mi mi certainty; but as they appear to

mml aeontinoed area from the circular end

Whan to the further extremity of the Hip-

% ttt position assigned to them by Leake is

stfnoable. He places the circular end of

at the foot of the heights to the NE.

of the summit of Mount Cronius, and the further

end of the Hippodrome on the bank of theAlpheius.

The Stadium is described by Pausanias as a

mound of earth, upon which there was a seat for the

Hellanodicae, and over against it an altar of marble,

on which sat the priestess of Demeter Chamvne to

behold the games. There were two entrances into

the Stadium, the Pompic and the Secret. The

latter, through which the Hellanodicae and the ago-

nistae entered, was near the Zanes; the former pro­

bably entered the area in front of the rectilinear

extremity of the Stadium. (Paus. vi. 20. § 8, seq.)

In proceeding towards the Hippodrome from that

part of the Stadium where the Hellanodicae sat was

the Hippaphesi* or starting place of the horses (i\

atptoit ivv iTrwuv). In form it resembled the prow

of a ship, the embolus or beak being turned towards

the racecourse. Its widest part adjoined the stoa

of Agnaptus. At the end of the embolus was a

brazen dolphin standing upon a pillar. Either side

of the Hippaphesis was more than 400 feet in

length, and contained apartments, which those who

were going to contend in the horse-races obtained by

lot. Before the horses a cord was extended as a

barrier. An altar was erected in the middle of the

prow, on which was an eagle with outstretched

wings. The superintendent of the race elevated this

eagle by means of machinery, so as to be seen by all

the spectators, and at the same time the dolphin

fell to the ground. Thereupon the first barriers on

either side, near the stoa of Agnaptus, were removed,

and then the other barriers were withdrawn in like

manner in succession, until all the horses were in

line at the embolus.

One side of the Hippodrome was longer than the

other, and was formed by a mound of earth. There

was a passage through this side leading out of the

Hippodrome; and near the passage was a kind of

circular altar, called Taraxippus (Topa^iiriro!), or

the terrifier of horses, because the horses were fre­

quently seized with terror in passing it, so that cha-

PLAIN OK OLYMPIA.

3. Village Miraka.

