LACONIA. 113 LACONIA.

the ate of ancient Sparta a town still called Jjace-

Haimonia; bot in A. D. 1248, William Villehardoin

built a fortress on one of the rocky hills at the foot

nf Ml Taygetus, about three miles from the city of

Ltrcdacmoma. Here he took up his residence;

and on this rock, called Misithra, usually pronounced

Miitra, a new town arose, which became the capital

of Laconia, and continued to be so till Sparta began

to be rebuilt on its ancient site by order of the

] resent Greek government. (Finlay, Medieval Greece,

p. 230; Curtius, Pelopormesoa, vol. ii. p. 214.)

V. Towns.

1. In the Spartan Plain. — The three chief towns

rtre Sparta, Amyclae, and Pharis. all situated

near one another, and upon some of the lower

heights close to the Eurotas. Their proximity

would Mem to show that they did not arise at the

same time. Amyclae lay only 2J miles south of

i-iarta, and appears to have been the chief place in

uie country before the Dorian invasion. South of

Amyclae, and on the road from this town to the sea,

**s Pharis, also an Achaean town in existence  
before the Dorian conquest. Therapne may be

re^nlsd as almost a part of Sparta. [Sparta.]

On the slopes of Mr, Taygetus, above the plain,

there were several places. They were visited by

Paasn.ias (iii. 20. §§ 3—7), but it is difficult to

dv:ennine the road which he took. After crossing

toe river Phellia, beyond Amyclae, he turned to the

ri:ht towards the mountain. In the plain was a

unctMry of Zeus Messapeus, belonging, as we learn

from Steplianus, to a village called Messapeae

(MnriTtti«oi), and beyond it, at the entrance into

the mountains, the Homeric city of Bryseae. In the

mountains was a sanctuary of Demeter Eleusinia,

anl 15 stadia from the latter Lapithaeum, near

which was Derriiicm, where was a fountain called

Anonus. Twenty stadia from Derrhium was Har-

floa, which borders upon the plain. Pausanias

gives no information of the direction in which he

proceeded from the Eleusinium to Harpleia. Leake

supposes that he turned to the south, and accord­

ingly places Harpleia at the entrance into the plain

by the bridge of Xerokampo; while Curtius, on the

contrary, imagines that he turned to the north, and

came into the plain at MUtrd, which he therefore

identifies with Harpleia. It is impossible to de­

termine which of these views is the more correct.

The antiquities and inscriptions discovered at Mistrd

prove that it was the site of an ancient town, and

Loire conjectures that it represents the Homeric

HesSE.

2. In the Vale of the Upper Eurotas.—The­

rmo from Sparta to Megalopolis followed the vale of

the Enrotas. On thU road Pausanias mentions first

several monuments, the position of one of which, the

|«nb of Laiias, may still be identified. This tomb

is described as distant 50 stadia from Sparta, and

as utruted above the road, which here passes very

r.ear to the river Eurotas. At about this distance

fr*n Sparta, Leake perceived a cavern in the rocks,

*r.K two openings, one of which appeared to have  
ten fasiuoned by art, and a little beyond a semi-

fire alar sepulchral niche: the place is called by the

feasanU o-rofa 4>oi>pvovs. (Leake, Morea, vol. iii.

p. 13.) Further on was the Characoma (Xapax»/xa),

a fortification, probably, in the narrow part of the

T»ury; above it the town Pf.lt.asa, the frontier-

fjr.ress of Sparta in the vale of the Eurotas; and 100

•tadia from Pellana, Beleuixa. (Pans. iii. 20. § 8

—21. § 3.) In the neighbourhood of Belemina

was Aegys, originally an Arcadian town, which

was conquered at an early period by the Spartans,

and its territory annexed to Laconia. In the upper

vale of the Eurotas was the Lacedaemonian Tri-

polis. (Liv. xxxv. 27.) Pellana was one of the

three cities (Polyb. iv. 81); Belemina was un­

doubtedly another; and the third was either Aegys

or Carystus.

The road to Tegea and Argos ran along the vale

of the Oenus. (Paus. iii. 10. §§ 6—8.) After

crossing the bridge over the Eurotas, the traveller

saw on his right hand Mount Thornax, upon which

stood a colossal statue of Apollo Pythaeus, guarding

the city of Sparta, which lay at his feet. (Comp.

Herod, i. 69; Xen. Hell. vi. 5. § 27.) A little

further on in the vale of the Ocnus, was Sei.lasia,

which was the bulwark of Sparta in the vale of the

Oenus, as Pellana was in that of the Eurotas.

Above Sellasia whs a small plain, the only one in

the vale of the Oenus, bounded on the east by Mt.

Olympus and on the west by Mr, Evas: a small

stream, called Gorgylus, flowed through the western

side of the plain into the Oenus. This was the site

of the celebrated battle in which Cleomenes was

defeated by Antigonus. [Sellasia.] In this plain

the road divided into two, one leading to Argos and

the other to Tegea. The road to Argos followed

the Oenus; and to the west of the road, about an

hour distant from the modern Ardkhova, lay Ca-

I'.vak. From this place to the confines of the

Thyreati3 in Argolis, was a forest of oaks, called

Scotitas (SkotItcis), which derived its name from

a temple of Zeus Scotitas, about 10 stadia west of

the road. (Paus. iii. 10. § 6; Polyb. xvi. 37.) On

the ridge of Mt. Parnon the boundaries of Argolis

and Laconia were marked by Uermae, of which,

three heaps of stones, called oi ipovtvptvot (the slain),

may perhaps be the remains. (Ross, /»»■< im Pelo-

ponnes, p. 173.) There was also a town Oesus,

from which the river derived its name.

The road to Tegea, which is the same as the

present road from Sparta to Tripolitzd, after leaving

the plain of Sellasia, passes over a high and moun­

tainous district, called Sciritis in antiquity. The

territory of Laconia extended beyond the highest

ridge of the mountain; and the chief source of the

Alpheius, called Sarantopotamosf formed the boun­

dary between Laconia and the Tcgeatis. Before

reaching the Arcadian frontier, the rood went

through a narrow and rugged pass, now called

Klisitra. The two towns in Sciritis were Scirus

and Oeum, called Ium by Xcnophon.

3. In the southern part of Laconia. — On the

road from Sparta to Gythium, tho chief port of the

country, Pausanias (iii. 21. § 4) first mentions

Croceae, distant about 135 stadia from Sparta,

aud celebrated for its quarries. Gythium was 30

stadia beyond Croceae, Above Gythium, in the

interior, was Akgiae, to which a road also led

from Croceae. Opposite Gythium was the island

Cranak. After giving an account of Gythium,

Pausanias divides the rest of Laconia, for the pur­

poses of his description, into what lies left and what

lies right of Gythium (iv apttrrtp^ Vv6iou} iii. 22.

§ 3 T<t iv Se£i$ ruflioi;, iii. 24. § 6).

Following tho order of Pausanias, we will first

mention the towns to the left or east of Gythium.

Thirty stadia above Gythium was Trinasus, si­

tuated upon a promontory, which formed the NE.

extremity of the peninsula terminating in Cape

voi- a

