MAEBA. 245 MAGDALA

kt 15°, the capital, no doabt, of the Maphoritae,

whom he places above the Homeritae and Adramitae

of the soul hern coast [Maphoritae.] The

situation of this tribe b still marked by the wide

and very fruitful Wady Mayfah, in the midst of

which " the very extensive village named itayfah,

situated at the eastern base of the Hummarees,"

perhaps marks the site of the Maepha metropolis.

Mr. Forster, however, identities it with the ruined

site of Sakab-eUHajar, discovered and described

by Lieut. YYellstead in 1834, the situation of which

is thus stated by that officer:—" Nakab-el-Ilajar is

situated north-west, and is distant forty-eight miles

front the village of 'A in [on the coast], which is

marked on the chart in latitude 14° 2' north, and

kn^itude 46° 30' east, nearly." It stands in the

centre of the IVady Meifah, nearly 20 miles north

of the village of that name, and was evidently a

(J»ce of considerable importance in ancient times.

The inscription over the gateway, in the ancient

Arabic character, commonly known as the Hadrau-

matic, would doubtless throw light on the history of

this castle; and it is curious that while the at­

tempted decipherments of Professor Boediger and

Mr. Charles Forster have so little in common, both

would agree in identifying it with Mnepha; for

while the former discovers the name Mf'fa twice in

the first line of the inscription, the latter, who pro­

nounces that this name " has no existence in the in­

scription,'' compensates for this disappointment by

discovering a list of proper names, which serve to

connect it with several historical personages, among

•horn are an Arabian patriarch, Mohareb, son of

Kwrish, "belonging to a period certainly prior to

the Christian era;" and Charibacl, " that king of

the Homerites and Sabaeans celebrated by Arrian

(Ptrriplus Maris Eryth. pp. 13, 14, apud Hudson

Geographki Alinort)), whose alliance in the reign

of Claudius was assiduously courted by the Ro­

mans. The inscription further mentions many of the

buildings described by Lieut. Wellstead. (Forster,

10I. ii. pp. 193—204, 383—393.) [G. W.]

MAERA [Mantixkia.]

MAESIA SILVA, a forest of Etruria, in the ter­

ritory of the Veientines, which was conquered from

than by Ancus Marrius. (Liv. i. 33.) Its site

cannot be determined with certainty, but it was pro­

bably situated on the right bank of the Tiber,

between Rome and the sea-coast, Pliny also no-

tin it as abounding in dormice. (Plin. viii. 58. s.

«3.) [E. H. B.]

MAESOXIA (h Moio-aAfa, Ptol. vii. 1. § 15;

in Ptripl. p. 35, Mao-aAia), a district on the eastern

coast of Ilindostun, along the Bay of Bengal, corre-

tpoding to that now occupied by the Circars and

toe upper part of the Coromandel coast. Ptolemy

mentions two towns in its territory which he calls

Emporia, namely. Contacossyla (probably the pre­

sent ifamlipattana) and Allosygna. The district

«u traversed by a river of considerable size, the

Maesotus (now Godarari), which flows into the

Aij of Bengal, after giving its name to the sur­

rounding country. It was from one of the ports of

Musolia that merchants were in the habit of taking

•hip and crossing the Bay of Bengal to the Aurea

CherwMitts. The people were called Maesoli (Mai-

v«A«). (Vincent, Peripl. vol. ii. p. 521.) [V.]

MAESOXUS (oM<uo-«Aor, Ptol. vii. I. §§ 15,

37), t river of considerable size, which rises in

tre Deccan or midland part of Ilindostdn, and

n»n in a course at 6r»t SE., and then nearly E.,

till it falls into the Bay of Bengal in lat. 18°. N.

There has been some dispute among geographers as

to its modern representative, some making it the

same as the Kistna, and some as the Goddrari.

The latter is probably the most correct supposition.

Ptolemy places its source in the Orudii or Aruedi

mountains, which would seem to bo part of tho

chain of tho western Ghats. [V.]

MA'GABA (Kurgh Dagh), a considerable moun

tain in the central part of Galatia, W. of the river

Halys, and E. of the city of Ancyra, which was only

10 Roman miles distant from it In B. c. 189, when

Manliiu) was carrying on war ngainst the Galatians,

the Tectosagi and Trocmi took refuge on Mt. Magaba,

and there defended themselves against the Romans,

but were defeated. (Liv. xxxviii. 19,26; Flor.i.ll.)

According to Rufus Festus (11), this mountain was

afterwards called Modiacus. [L. S.]

MAGABULA, a place mentioned in the Peuting.

Table in Pontus Polemoniacus, on tho road from

Comana to Nicopolis, at a distance of 21 miles from

the former city. There can be no doubt but that it

is the same place as Megalula (Mc^dAouAa) men­

tioned by Ptolemy (v. 6. § 10); but its exact site

cannot be ascertained. [L. S.]

MAGARSA, MAGARSUS, or MEGARSUS (Md-

yapaa. Miyapaus, Miyapaos), a town in the eastern

part of Cilicia, situated on a height close to tho

mouth of the river Pyramus. (Strab. xiv. p. 676.)

Alexander, previous to the battle of Issus, marched

from Soli to Megarsus, and there offered sacrifices to

Athena Megarsis, and to Amphilochus, tho son of

Amphiaraus, the reputed founder of the place.

(Arrian, Annb. ii. 5.) It seems to have formed the

port of Mallus (Steph. Byz. s. v. Mdyapoos; Lycoph.

439; Plin. //. N. v. 22). The hill on which the

town stood now bears the name of Karadash, and

vestiges of ancient buildings are still seen upon it.

(Leake, Asia Minor, p. 215, foil.) [L. 6.]

MAGDALA (MaySali: Eth. Mo/ySaAnKOs), a

town of Galilee, chiefly noted as the birthplace of

that Mary to whom the distinguished name of Mag­

dalene is ever applied in the Gospel. The place itself

is mentioned only by S. Matthew (xv. 39), where

we find the words to opia MaryoaAa, which are repre­

sented in the parallel passage in S. Mark (viii. 10)

as to. fifprj Aa\navov8a. As neither does this namo

occur elsewhere, we have no clue to the situation

of the town; although, a modem writer says, " it

seems to follow from the New Testament itself that

it lay on the west side of the lake." The argument

is, that, on leaving the coast of Magdala, our Lord

embarked again, and " departed to the other side"—

"an expression which in the N. T. is applied al­

most exclusively to the country east of the hike and

of the Jordan." (Robinson, Bib. Res. vol. iii. p. 278.)

There can, however, be no difficulty in identifying it

with the site of the modern village of Mejdel in tho

SE. corner of the plain of Gennesaret; where there

certainly existed an ancient town of the name, no­

ticed in the Jerusalem Talmud, compiled in Tibe­

rias, from which it is not more than 4 or 5 miles

distant, on the north: probably identical also with

Migdal-el, in the tribe of Naphtali. (Josh. xix. 38.)

It is a small and insignificant village, " looking

much like a ruin, though exhibiting no marks of

antiquity." (Robinson,/, c.) Pococke's argument

against this identification is unintelligible:—" This

does not seem to be Magdalum mentioned in Scrip­

ture, because that is spoken of with Dalmanutha,

which was to the east of the sea." (Observations

s 3

