STRACUSAE. 1057 SYRACUSAE.

) xt?ign any definite place in chronology to the

rjrrwn* there alluded to. At a later period we

r..l tne government in the hands of an exclusive

.^wvlir called tbe Geomori or Gamori, who, from

*ir nanis, would appear to have been the descend-  
in t-f tbe original colonist*, around whom there

ltamllv grew up a democracy or plebs, composed of

t c.uieu* derived from otlier sources. At length,

»:i a. c. 486, a revolution took place; and tho

r;-"<racT succeeded in expelling the Geomori, who

neupon withdrew to Casrnenae. (Herod, vii. 155;

ri. 62.) But this revolution quickly led

jri/.her; Gelon, the powerful despot of Gela, having

>ju**J the cause of the exiles. Gela was at thus

:t st leant equal, if not sujierior, to Syracuse in

'•r. liijipoerates, its late despot, had extended

i [wwer over many of the other cities in the east

i^ictlj, and defeated the Syracusans themselves in

[real battle'at the river ilehrus. lie would pro-

ilt itdred have made himself master ot Syracuse

n this occasion had it not been for the inter-

auofl of the Corinthians and Corcyraeans, who

'■i;jit about a peace upon equitable terms. (Herod.

1j4.) But the expulsion of the Geomori opened

ma opportunity to Gelon, who, putting himself

t tr bead of the exiles, easily effected their re-

■x- m, while the people of Syracuse readily ad-

■■ ■ Gelon himself as their ruler with despotic

Hariiy. (Ib. 155.)

f!u» revolution (which occurred in b. c. 485)

■ ><i it tint likely to render Syracuse subordinate

jfla, bat it ultimately produced a directly con-

y eject. Gelon seems to have been fully alive

tat superior advantages of Syracuse, and from

rr.tvnent be had established his power in that

. mad* it the chief object of his solicitude, and

iini ill bis efforts to the strengthening and

his new capital. Among other measures,

moved timber ihe whole body of the citizens of

aaria* (which had been rc peopled by Hippo-

•**). and subsequently more than half of those

iUclf, admitting them all to the full rights

yrjcu&an citizens. Afterwards, as he directed

•nns successively against the Sicilian Megara

luix-ca, be removed the wealthy and noble citi-

of both those cities also to Syracuse, (/&. 156.)

t ciiy now rose rapidly to a far greater amount

*« and prosperity than it had previously en-  
and became, under the fostering care of

«o, unquestionably the first of the Greek cities

*iiy. It was probably at this period that it  
extended itself beyond the limits of the island,

■ npied tho table-land or heights of Aehra-

. wfaich were adapted to receive a far more

eruas population, and had already become

L'J peopled before the time of Thucydides.

f. vl 3.) This portion of the city now came

• fttwu as the Outer City (/j {£« while

t ind of Ortygia was called the Inner City,

■'h still frequently designated as '' the Island.''

»peaking, however, it had ceased to merit

tfrnj, being now joined to the mainland by an

a) dike or causeway. (Thuc. /. c.)

rusi the time of Gelon the history of Syracuse

nea inseparably blended with that of Sicily in

nJ; its position in the island being so im-

i -i that, as Strabo justly remarku, whatever

etudes of fortune betel the city were shared in

he whole is land. (Strab. vi. p. 270.) Hence

4ild be useless to recapitulate the events of

b i brief »ummary has been already given in

>L u.

the article Sicilia, and which are more fully de­

tailed by all the general historians of Greece. The

following summary will, therefore, be confined to

those historical events which more immediately

affected the city itself, as distinguished from the

political vicissitudes of the state.

There can be no doubt that Syracuse continued to

flourish extremely throughout the reign of Gelon

(b. c. 485—478), as well as that of his successor

Hieron (b. c. 478—467), who, notwithstanding the

more despotic character of his government, was in

many respects a liberal and enlightened ruler. His

patronage of letters and the arts especially rendered

Syracuse one of the chief resorts of men of letters,

and his court afforded shelter and protection to

Aeschylus, 1'indar, and Bacchylides. Nor was Sy­

racuse itself deficient in literary distinction. Kpi-

charm us, though not a native of the city, spent all

the latter years of bis life there, and Sophron, the

celebrated writer of mimes, was a native of Syracuse,

and exhibited all his principal works there. The

care bestowed upon the arts is sufficiently attested

by the still extant coins of the city, as well as by

the accounts transmitted to us of other monuments;

and there is every probability that the distinction of

Syracuse in this respect commenced from the reign

of Hieron. The tranquil reign of that monarch was

followed by a brief period of revolution and disturb­

ance; his brother Thrasybulus having, after a short

but tyrannical and violent reign, been expelled by the

Syracusans, who established a popular government,

b. c. 466. This was for a time agitated by fresh

tumults, arising out of disputes between the new

citizens who had been introduced by Gelon and the

older citizens, who claimed the exclusive possession

of political power; but after some time these dis­

putes were terminated by a compromise, and the

new citizens withdrew to Mcssana. (Diod. xi. 67,

68, 72, 73, 76.)

The civil dissensions connected with the expulsion

of Thrasybulus, which on more than one occasion

broke out into actual hostilities, show how great was

the extent which the city had already attained.

Thrasybulus himself, and afterwards the discontented

citizens, are mentioned as occupying the Island and

Achradina, both of which were strongly fortified,

and had their own separate walls (Diod. xi. 68,

73); while the popular party held the rest of the

city. It is evident therefore that there were already

considerable spaces occupied by buildings outside the

walls of these two quarters, which are distinctly

mentioned on one occasion as "the suburbs" (tA

-,ir,u,jTf tci, lb. 68). Of these, one quarter called  
Tycha, which lay to the YV. of Achradina, adjoining

the N. slope of the table-land, is now first mentioned

by name (Jlrid.); but there can be no doubt that the

plain between the heights of Achradina and the

marshes was already occupied with buildings, and

fonned part of the city, though it apparently was

not as yet comprised within tbe fortifications.

The fiual establishment of the democracy at Sy­

racuse was followed by a period of about sixty years

of tree government, during which we are expressly

told that the city, in common with the other Greek

colonies in Sicily, developed its resources with great

rapidity, and probably attained to its maximum of

wealth and power. (Diod. xi. 68,72.) Before tbe

close of this period it had to encounter the severest

danger it had yet experienced, and gave abundant

proof of its great resources by coming off victorious

in a contest with Athens, then at the very height of

3 T

