2f,f> HANTIKEIA MAX1M1.

broad street or way between the two, and a ditch

on the outside. At present they arc nowhere more

than six feet in height. The modern town of Man-

duria (a flourishing place, with about 6000 inha­

bitants) does not occupy the site of the ancient city;

the latter having been destroyed by ttie Saracens,

the few remaining inhabitant* settled at a place

called Canal A'uoro, which appellation it retained

till towards the close of the eighteenth century, when,

having grown into a considerable town, it resumed,

by royal licen.se, its ancient name of Manduria.

(Swinburne, Trarels, vol. i. p. 222; Komanelli, voL i.

p. 53; Giustiniani, l>iz. Geogr. vol. v. p. 338.)

Pliny mentions the existence at ManUuria of a

well or spring of water, which was always full to

the brim, and could not be either increased or

diminished in quantity. This natural curiosity is

still t»h»wn by the inhabitants of Manduria, and

has been described by several recent travellers; it

is said that it preserves a constant equality in the

level of its waters, notwithstanding any addition

that may be made to them or any quantity that

may be withdrawn,—a statement exactly coinciding

with that of Pliny. (Plin. ii. 103. s. 106; Swin­

burne, Trarels, vol. i. p. 223; K. Craven, TraceU,

pp. 165—167.) The expression used by that author,

who calls the basin or reservoir of the water " lacus,"

has given rise to the erroneous notion that there

existed a lake in the neighbourhood of Manduria,

for which there is no foundation in fact [E. H.B.]

MANIMI, a tribe of the Lygii, in the north east of

Germany (lac. Germ, 43). They occupied the

country south of the Burgundiones, and appear to be

the same as the Onianni ('Ouawol) of Ptolemy (ii.

11. § 18; Zeu.ss, Die DeutscKen, p. 124). [L.S.]

MAXl'TAK (Mafircu), an inland tribe of Arabia

Frlix, situated we»t of the Thanuetae. an 1 south of

the Sal ape j ii, north of the "inner Frankincense"

country (^ ivrhs 1fxvpvo$6pos, Ptol.vi. 7. §23). The

position of Ptolemy's "Manitae," west of his Kata-

nitae, and of Zames Mons, together with the near

resemblance of name, implies their being the same

with the Mazryne of Burclchardt, the most eastern

of the llarb tribes, situated on the borders of Karytn

in the line of country between Medina and Derayth.

(K.irwter, Geog. of Arabia, toI. ii. p. 249.) [G. W.]

MA'NIUS SINUS (Manor k6\vqi, Scyl. p. 8),

that part of the *>ea off the coa^t of I>almatia into

which (he river Naro discharged itself, and in which

the Libumian group of islands is situated. In

modern times it bears no distinctive name. [K. B.J.J

MANMA'NA) MavKiava * Map\iava, I'tol. IT.

2. § 25), an inland town of Mauritania, upon the

position of which there is a great disagreement be­

tween Ptolemy and the author of the Itinerary. The

fir>t place? it lu' to the W. of Oitidlm Novum,

iiml the latter 18 M. P. to the K. of that ]>lace. The

modern Miliana, on the slopes of the I^esser Atlas,

preserving the ancient name, may be presumed to

represent the old town, both of Ptolemy and the

Jtir.erary, in which a Christian community was

est ibli-hfd. (Aug lis tin. Kp. cexxxvi.; Morcelli,

Africa Christiana, vol. i p. 211.) Shaw {Tra­

vels, pp. 62—64) found remains of Itoman archi-

tectnre, and a "cippu*" with an inscription

whirl, he refers to some of the descendants of

Cn. Pompeius (Bartb, Wanderungen, pp. 58,

807.) [E. B.J.]

MAKLIA'KUS SALTCS. [Idubkda.]

MANNABUTUM, in north Gallia, U placed by

the Aulonine kin. on a road which lea-1* from

1 Lngdunam through Trajectnm (Utreent") to Cam»

[Carvo]. It is 15 M. P. from Trajwtuin to Maa-

naritium.and 16 M. P. from Mannaritium to Carvo.

Mannaritium may be Maaren. But other places

have been suggested. [G. L.]

MANKALI (MorooAoi, Ptol. v. 10. § 6), a

people on the coast of Colchis, whose name baa been

traced in the modern MingreOa. [fcL B. J.]

MANTALA, a place in Gallia Karbotwrwi*. on

the road from Vienna(I'leane) to Darantasia {M*m-

tiers en Tarentaise'). It is the next station after

Lemincum [Lemimcum], and 16 M. P. from it.

The Antonine Itin. and the Table agree a* to

the position of Mantala. The site of the station

Mantala may be, as D'Anville suggests, at a pUre

on the I sere, named Gressi, which is command**! by

an old building named Montailleu. |"G. L.J

MANTIANA LACUS. [Arstma.]

MANTINEIA (Mayrtma: Eih. MoKTiF«vt,lUn-

tinensis: Palevpoli), one of the moat anrtenx and

powerful towns in Arcadia, situated on tbe borders

of Argolis, S. of Orchomenus, and N. of Tegem. Its

territory was called Maxttnicx (Morrwurs;). The

city is mentioned in the Homeric catalogue as Mar-

Tivt-n dpartirij, and, according to tradition, it de­

rived its name from Mantineus, a son of Lycam.

(Horn. //. ii. 607; Pol ii. 56; Paus. riii. 8." J 4.)

Mantineia originally consisted of four or five distinct

villages, the inhabitants of which were coHerted

into one city. (Xen. Hell. v. 2. § 6, seq.; Strab. viii.

p. 337; Diod. xv. 5.) If Strabo is correct in statin*

that this incorporation was brought about by tbt

Argives, we may conjecture, with Mr. Grute, that the

latter adopted this proceeding as a means of pmrtd-

ing some check upon their powerful neichboun of

Tegea. The political constitution of Mantineia is

mentioned by Polybius as one of the be*t in anti­

quity; and tbe city had acquired so great a repu­

tation at an early period, that the Cyrvnaeam. ia

the reign of Battas III. (b. a 550-^-5.10), when

weakened by internal seditions, were recommended to

apply to the Mantineians, who sent to them I>emonax

to settle their constitution. (PoL vi. 43; H«nJ. iv.

161.) Some time before the Persian wars, JUnti-

neia, like the other Arcadian towns, had ac know-

ledged the Spartan supremacy; and accordingly il»e

Mantineians fought against the Persians as tU

allies of Sparta. Five hundred of their cituena

fought at Thermopylae, but their contingent im'id

on the field of Piataea immediately after the battle.

(Herod. viL 202, ix. 77.) In the Prlopnnnrvaa

War, Mantineia was at first a meml-er of lb* Pefto-

ponnesian confederacy; but several caiuea tended to

estrange her from the Spartan alliance, Mantineia

and IVgea were, at this time, the two most im^v-

taut Arcadian states, and were frequently enraged

in hostilities. In b c. 423, they fought a Li«»iy

and indecisive battle, which U mentiuned by Thu-

cydides (iv. 134). Tegea, being olig*rvhi<-aJlv

governed, was firmly attached to Sparta. wberr**

Mantineia, from her possessing a democrat teal o«-

stitution, as well as from her hat ml to True*, was

disposed to desert Sparta on tlie first favourable op-

portunity. In addition to this, the Maiiiuwnaai kit

recently extended their dominion over tbe Parrba-

sians and had garrisoned a fortress at Cyj^ela. «*•*

the site where Megalopolis wu afterward* t«iX.

Well aware that tbe Lacedaemonians wooid srf

allow them to retain their recent acquisition*, a* st

was the policy of Sparta to prevent the iacnatsv of

any j-'litical jaiwer in the Pelojionneiua, tha hlauC*­

