130 LILYBAEUM. LILYBAKUM.

thaginians from all ttieir other strongholds. Bnt1

they continued to throw in supplies and reinforce- |

meuts by sea to Lilybaeum, so that the kin?, after a

siege of two months, was compelled to abandon the

enterpri.se as hopeless. (Diod. xxii. 10. Exc.

Hoesch. pp. 498, 499.) But it is the memorable

siege of Lilybaeum by the Romans in the First

Punic War which has [riven to that city its chief

historical celebrity. When the Komans first com­

menced the siege in the fifteenth year of the war,

B. o. 254), they were already masters of the whole of

Sicily, with the exception of Lilyhaeum and Dre-

jianum; and hence they were able to concentrate all

their efforts and employ the armies of both consuls

in the attack of the former city, while the Cartha­

ginians on their side exerted all their energies in

its defence. They had just before removed thither

all the inhabitants of Selinus (Diod. xxiv. 1. p. 500),

and in addition to the citizens there was a garrison

in the place of 10,000 men, (Pol. i. 42.) The

city appears to have occupied the whole of the pro- J

montory, and was fortified on the land side by a

wiill flanked with towers and protected by a deep j

ditch. The Romans at first attacked this vigorously,

bnt all their efforts were frustrated by the courage

and activity of the Carthaginian commander Himilco;'

their battering engines were burnt by a sally of the

besieged, and on the approach of winter the consuls

were compelled to convert the siege into a blockade.

This was easily maintained on the land side, but the

Romans in vain endeavoured to exclude the besieged

from succours by sea. A Carthaginian fleet under

Hannibal succeeded in making good its entrance into

the port; and the skilful Carthaginian captains

were able to elude the vigilance of the Roman

cruisers, and keep np free communications witli the

besieged. The R>inan consuls next tried to block

up the entrance of the port with a mound, but this

was soon carried away by the violence of the waves;

and soon after, A1 herbal, the Carthaginian com­

mander-in-chief, who lay with a large fleet at Dre-

panuin, totally defeated the Roman fleet under the

consul P. Claudius, B.C. 249. This disaster was

followed by the almost total loss of two Roman

fleets in succession by shipwreck, and these accu­

mulated misfortunes compelled the Romans to aban­

don the very attempt to contest the dominion of the

sea. Hut though they could not in consequence

in iintain any efficient blockade, they still continued

to hem in Lilybaeum on the land side, and their

armies continued encamped before the city for several

years in succession. It was not till the tenth year

of the siege that the victory of C. J.utatius Catulus

at the Aegate*. I». r. 241, compiled the Cartha­

ginians to conclude peace, and to abandon the pos­

session of Ldybaeuiu and Drepnnum, which up to

that time the continued efforts of the Romans had

failed in wresting from th«*ir hands. (poL i, 41—

54, 59 -62; Diod. xxiv. 1, 3, 11, Kxc. II. pp. 506

— 509, Kxc. VsJes. p. 565; Zonar. viii. 15—17;

Oros. \r. 10.)

Lilybaeum now josscd into the condition of a

Roman provincial town: but it continued to be a

flourishing and populous pi;tee. Its (position rendered

it now as important a point to the Romans for the

invasion of Africa, as it had previously been to the

Carthaginians for that of Sicily; and hence its name

is one of frequent occurrence during almost all

periods of Roman history. Thus, at the outbreak of

the Second Punic War, B.c. 218, Lilybaeum was

the station of the Roman fleet under the praetor M.

Aemilins, who defeated a Carthaginian fare that

had attempted to surpri.se that important p>->r.

(Liv. xxi. 49, 50.) During the course of the same

war it was the point from whence Roman com­

manders repeatedly made predatory descents with

small squadrons upon the coast of Africa; and

towards the close of the same memorable contest,

B.C. 204, it was from thence that Scipio sailed *irh

the fleet and army which were destined for the r<-ti-

quest of Africa. (Liv. xxv. 31, xxvii. 5, xxix. 24.)

In like manner it was at Lilybaeum that the

younger Scipio Africanus assembled his fleet and

army in b. c 149, preparatory to passing over into

Africa (Diod. xxxii. 6); and in the Civil Wars

Caesar made it his headquarters when preparing for

his African campaign against Scipio and Juba, b.c

47. (Hirt. B. A/r. 1, 2, 37; Appian, B C. ±

95.) It was also one of the chief naval stations of

Sextus Pompeius in his war with Augustus, a. r.

36. (Appian. B. C. v. 97, 122; D.on Cass. xHx.

8.) Nor was the imjwrtance of Lilybaeum confine 1

to these warlike occasions: it is evident that it was

the habitual port of communication between Sicily

and Africa, and must have derived the greatest pros­

perity from the constant traffic which arose from

this circumstance. Hence we find it selected as the

habitual place of residence of one of the two qu*-.-

tors of Sicily (Pseud. Ascon. in Y'err. p. 100); aj.i

Cicero, who had himself held that office at Lily­

baeum, calls it "splendidisaima civitas" (Terr.

v. 5.) It was one of the few cities of Sicily whkh

still retained some importance in the time of Stmt**.

(Strab. vi. p. 272.) Its continued prosperity under

the Roman Empire is sufficiently attested by inscrip­

tions: from one of these we learn that ita population

was divided into twelve tribes; a rare mode of muni­

cipal organisation. (Torremuzza Inter. SiciL pp.

7, 15, 49; Orell. Inter. 151, 1691, 3718.) In

another inscription it bears the title of a colon: the

time when it became such is uncertain; but probably

not tilt the reign of ll.idrian, as Pliny does not

mention it among the five colonies founded by

Augustus in Sicily. (I'lin. iii. 8. s. 14; PtoL ui. 4.

§ 5; I tin. Ant. pp, 80, 89, 9C; Zampt, tfc CotW.

p. 409.)

After the fall of the Roman Empire Lilyhaenm

still continued to be one of the most important

cities of Sicily. It is mentioned as snch nnder the

successive dominion of the Goths aikl Vandals (Pro-

cop. B. V. i. 8, ii. 5); and during the period of the

Arabian dominion in Sicily, that pwiple at tat bed so

much value to its port, th.it they gave it the name of

A farm AUa,—the port of God,—from whence has

come its modern appellation of Martnla. It was cut

till the loth century that this celebrate*! p*t w*s

blocked up with a mole or mound of Minken shears

by order of the Kmperor Charles V.t in order to pro­

tect it from the attacks of the Barbary corsairs.

From that period Trapani has taken ita place as

the princijail port in the W. of Sicily; but .t/ArsoJe

is still a considerable town, and a place of mwnm

trade, especially in wine. (Smyth's SirUy, p. 132.)

Very few vestiges of the ancient city remain, but

numerous fragments of sculpture, vase*, and other

relics, an well as coins, have been discovered *m the

site; and some portions of an ancient aqueduct are

still visible. The site of the ancient port, though

now filled with mud, may be distinctly traced, but it

is of small extent, an J could never have had a depth

of more than 12 or 14 feet. The rocks and shunts,

which even iu ancicut tiutes rendered it diiiauit of

