MEDIOLANUM. 303 MEDIOLANUM.

difficult to see where Mediolanuin should be. The

next position to Mediolanum on the road to Cologne

is Sablunes; which is also uncertain.

4. Mediolanum was the chief town of the Aulerci

Eburovices (Ptol. ii. 8. § 11), or Mediolanium, as it

u in Ptolemy's text. The name occurs in the An-

tonine ltin. and in the Table. In the Notitia of

the Gallic provinces it is named Civitas Ebroicorum;

and in the middle ages it was called Ebroas, whence

the modem name Evreux, a town in the French

department of £ure.

Ammianus Marcellinus (xv. 11) mentions Medio-

lioum as one of the chief cities of Secunda Lugdu-

nensis. There was a Roman town a few miles

south-east of Evreux, at a place called Vieil Evreux.

There are the remains of a lurge theatre here, the

foundations of a building which is supposed to

have been a temple, and remains of baths. A great

number of amphorae, household utensils, articles of

luxury, and imperial medals have been dug up here,

and deposited in the Museum of Evreux. This

Vieil Eereux may be the site of Mediolanum.

5. Mediolanum was the chief town of the Santones

or Santoni, now Samtes, in the French department

of CkartnU In/crirure. Strabo (iv. p. 190) writes

the name Mediolanium, and also Ptolemy (ii. 7. § 7).

Marcellinus (xv. 11) speaks of this place under the

name of Santones, from which it appears that in his

time the name of the people had, as in many in­

stances, been transferred to the town. There is no

doubt about the site of this Mediolanum, which is

Samlet on the Chartnte. It was once a considerable

RoQian town. There is an arch in honour of Ger-

maokus Caesar, which appears to be built on the

middle of the bridge over the Ckarente, which joins

the town to the faubourg, but the arch rests on the

bed of the river, and the bridge has been built to it

from each bank. The most probable explanation of

this singular circumstance is that the arch stood

cnginally on one bank of the river, and that the

rirer changed its course. The bridge, of course,

most have been built after this supposed change.

The amphitheatre is outside of the town, at the

bottom of a valley. It is an ellipse, about 436 feet

loa; and about 354 feet wide. Water was brought

to the town from a source several miles to the north

by an aqueduct, of which there are still some

remains. In one of the valleys which it crossed

there are traces of 25 arches, of which three are

standing. One of them is nearly 50 feet high. [G.L.]

MEMOLA'NUM (MeSidAoyoy.Pol.; MfSioAoj/iov,

Scrab., PtoL: Eth. Mcdiolanensis: Milano, Milan),

the chief city of the Insubres in Cisalpine Gaul, and

Si a loop period the capital of Cisalpine Gaul itself.

It was situated about midway between the rivers

Tk-inns and Addua, in a broad and fertile plain,

abwt 28 miles from the foot of the Alps at Comum,

and the same distance from the Padus near Ticinum

(Pwia). All ancient writers concur in ascribing

its foundation to the Gauls, at the time when that

people first established themselves in the plains of

Vrthcm Italy. Livy, who has given the most de­

tailed account of the settlement of the Cisalpine

Gaols. ttlU us it was founded by the Insubres, who

•ailed it after a village of the same name in their

«ati»« settlements in Transalpine Gaul (Liv. v. 34;

Strab. v. p. 213; Plin. iii. 17. s. 21; Justin, xx.

5) There can be little doubt that Strabo is correct

in saying that, previous to the Koman conquest, it

*m rather a village than a town, as were indeed all  
Ua other Gaulish settlements. It was nevertheless

the chief place of the Insubres, and is mentioned as

such several times in the history of the wars of that

people with the Romans. Thus, in the campaign of

B.C. 222, after the battle of Clastidium, it was

attacked and taken by the Roman consuls Claudius

Marcellus and Cn. Scipio. (Pol. ii. 34; Eutrop. iii.

6; Oros. iv. 13.) On this occasion it was taken by

assault with apparently but little difficulty, and this

confirms the statement of Strabo that it was an open

town. Again, in b. c. 194, a battle was fought near

it, between the Roman proconsul L. Valerius Flac-

cus and the combined forces of the Insubrians and

Boians, under a chief named Dorylacus, in which the

Gauls are said to have lost 10,000 men. (Liv.

xxxiv. 46.)

No other mention of Mediolanum occurs previous to

the Roman conquest, nor have we any precise account

of the time at which it passed under the Roman

yoke, or that at which it was admitted to the Roman

"civitas." We can only infer that it must have sub­

mitted, together with the rest of the Insubres, about

190 B.C.: its citizens doubtless received the Latin

franchise, together with the other Transpadane Gauls,

in B. c. 89, and the full Roman franchise in B. c. 49.

[Gallia Cisalpisa, Vol. I. p. 945.] Mediolanum

thus passed into the condition of a Roman munici-

pium, bat it did not as yet enjoy that degree of im­

portance which it subsequently attained. Strabo

calls it in his time a considerable city (TrdAir a(ui-

A070J, v. p. 213), and Tacitus reckons it among

the "finnissima Transpadanae regionis municipia;"

but neither he nor Pliny give any indication of its

possessing any marked superiority over the other

municipal towns with which they associate its name.

(Plin. iii 17. s. 21; PtoL iii. 1. § 33; Tac. Hut.

i. 70.) It is evident, however, that under the Roman

Empire it increased rapidly in prosperity, and became

not only the chief town of the Insuhres, but the most

important city in Northern Italy. We learn from

the younger Pliny that it was a place where litera­

ture flourished, and young men from the neigh­

bouring towns were sent for their education. (Plin

Ep. iv. 13.) It was the native place of the emperor

Didius Julianas, as well as of Septimius Gets.

(Dion Cass, lxxiii. 11; Spartian. Did. Jul 1, Get. 3.)

At a later period, A. i>. 268, it was there that the

usurper Aureolus took refuge after his defeat by Gal-

lienus on the Addua, and was for some time besieged

by the emperor, till a sedition in his own camp ended

in the death of Gallienus, and his brother Valerianus.

(Eutrop. ix. 11 ; Treb. PolL Gall. 14 ; Vict Caei.

33, Epit. 33.) Shortly after Aureolus was com­

pelled to surrender the city to Claudius, who had

been elected to succeed Gallienus, and was put to

death by order of the new emperor. (Treb. Poll.

Claud. 5.)

But it was the establishment of the imperial resi­

dence at Mediolanum that raised that city to the

highest pitch of prosperity. Its central position,

which rendered it a peculiarly suitable head-quarters

from which to watch the movements of the barba­

rians, and the progress of the wars with them,

whether in Gaul, Germany, or Pannonia, was un­

doubtedly the cause of its selection for this purpose.

Augustus himself is said to have sometimes repaired

to Mediolanum with the same view (Suet. Aug. 20);

and the constantly increasing dangers from these

quarters led subsequent emperors from time to time

to follow his example; but ilaximiau appears to have

been the first of the Roman emperors who perma­

nently fixed his residence there (about a. d. 303),

