:* ITALIA ITALIA.

banks of the Padus; so that Aritninnm (/?iWnf),

where their lowest slopes 6ret descend to the sea­

shore, is distant nearly 60 geo;. miles from the

mouth of that river, and it is almost as mnch more

from thence to the foot of the Alps. It is this vast

plain, together with the hill-country on each side of

it, formed by the lower slopes of the mountains, that

constitnted the country of the Cisalpine G.tuls, to

which the Romans gave the name of Gal.ua Cisal-

pika- The westernmost part of the same tract,

including the upper basin of the Po, and the exten­

sive hilly district, now called the Afon/errato, which

stretches from the foot of the Apennines to the south

bank of the Po, was inhabited from the earliest

periods by Ligurian tribes, and was included in

Liockia, according to the Roman use of the name.

At the opposite extremity, the portion of the great

plain E. and N. of the Adigt (Athesis), as well as

the district now called the Friuli, was the land of

the Veneti, and constituted the Roman province of

Yknktm. The Romans, however, appear to have

occasionally used the name of Gallia Cisalpina, in a

more lax and general sense, for the whole of Northern

Italy, or everything that was not comprised within

the limits of Italy as tliat name was understood

prior to the time of Augustus. At the present

day the name of /.ombtirdy is frequently applied to

the whole basin of the Pv, including both the proper

Gallia Cisalpina, and the adjacent parts of Liguxia

and Veoetia.

The name of Northers Italy may be con­

veniently adopted as a geographical designation for

the name tract of country; but it is commonly under­

stood ns comprising the whole of I.iguria, including

the sea-coast; though this, of coarse, lies on the S.

side of the dividing ridge of the Apennines. In this

sense, therefore, it comprises the provinces of Liguria,

Gallia Cisalpina, Venetia and Istria, and is limited

towards the S. by the Macra (ilagrii) on the YV.

coast, and by the Rubicon on that of the Adriatic.

In like manner, the name of Ck.ntrai. Italy is

frequently applied to the middle portion, comprising

the northern half of the peninsula, and extending

along the W. coast from the mouth of the Macra to

that of the Silarus, and on the E. from the Rubicon

to the Frento: while that of SoiTiiEiut Italy is

given to the remaining portion of the peninsula,

including Apulia, Calabria. Lncania, and brutlium.

But it mast be borne in mind that these names are

merely geographical distinctions, for the convenience

of description and reference, and do not correspond

to any real divisions of the country, either natural

or jtolitical.

2. Central. Italy.—The country to which

this name is applied differs essentially from that

which lies to the N. of the Apennines. While the

latter presents a broad level basin, bounded on both

sides by mountains, and into which the streams and

rivers converge from all sides, the centre of the

Italian peninsula is almost wholly filled op by the

broad mass of the Apennines, the offsets and lateral

brandies of which, in some parts, descend quite to

the sea, in others leave a considerable intervening

space of plain or luw country: but even the largest

of these level tracta is insignificant as compared with

the great plains of Northern Italy. The chain of

the Apennines, which from the neighbourhood of

Ariininum assumes a generally t-K. direction, is very

fir from being uniform and regular in its character.

Nor ran it be regarded, like the Alps or Pyrenees,

a* funning ou* continuous ridge, from which there

branch off lateral arms or ranges, separated by deep

intervening valleys. This is, indeed, the case, with

tolerable regularity, on the eastern side of Lbs

mountains, and hence the numerous rivers which

descend to the Adriatic pursue nearly parallel

courses at right angles to the direction of the main

chain. But the central mass of the mountains,

which comprises all tho loftiest summits of List

Apennines, is broken up and intersected by deep

longitudinal valleys, sometimes separated only by

narrow ridges of moderate elevation, at others by

rugged ranges rising abruptly to a height equal to

that of the loftiest summits of the chain. The

number of these valleys, occurring in the very heart

of the Apennines, and often almost entirely enrlused

by the mountains, is a feature in the physical

geography of Italy which has in all ages exercised

a material influence on its fortunes. The upland,

valleys, with their fine summer pasturages, were a

necessary resource to the inhabitants of the dry

plains of the south; and the peculiar configuration uf

these valleys opened out routes through the beirt

of the mountain districts, and facilitated mutual

communication between the nations of the peninsula.

It is especially in the southern part of the district

we are now considering that the Apennines assume

this complicated and irregular structure. Uetwren

the parallels of 44° and 42° 30' N. lat. they may U>

regarded as forming a broad mountain chain, wliii h has

a direction nearly parallel with the line of coast of Um

Adriatic, and the centre of which is nowhere dUtat t

more than 40 geog. miles from the shore of that

sea, while it is nearly double the same distan. e f. ..m

that of the Tyrrhenian. Hence there remain* on

the W. side of the mountains an extensive tract of

country, constituting the greater part of Etruria and

the & of Umbria, which is wholly distinct from the

mountain regions, and consists in part of fertile

plains, in part of a hilly, but still by no means

mountainous, district. The great valleys of the

Amo and the Tiber, the two principal rivers at

Central Italy, which hare their sources very near

one another, but flow the one to the W. the other to

the S., may be considered as the key to the geo­

graphy of this part of the peninsula. Between them

lies the hilly tract of Etruria, which, notwithstand­

ing the elevation attained by some isolated luinn if.

has nothing of the character ot a mountain country,

and a largo part of which, as well as the jxrtions ct"

Umbria bordering on the valley of the Tiber, may

be deservedly reckoned among the most fertile dis­

tricts in Italy. South of the Tiber, again, the bnu.1

volcanic plains of Latium expand between the Ala­

nines and the sea; and though these are interrupted

by the isolated group of the Alhan hills, and still

more by the rugged mountains of the Volsciai.s,

which, between Ttrracma and Gafto, descend quite

to the sea-shore, as soon as these are passed, the

mountains again recede from tlie ?ea-coast, and leave

a considerable interval which is filled up by the luxu­

riant plain of C-impama.

Nothing can be more striking than the ruritratl

presented by different parts of the countries thus

comprised under the name of Central Italy. The

snow still lingers in the upland pastures of Sunniom

and the Abnari, wlwn the corn is nearly ripe in

the |Jains of the Roman Campagma. The elevated

districts of the 1'rligiii, the Veslini, and the Marti,

were always noted for their cold and cherrlra

climate, and were better adapted (ur pasturec* tiiaa

the growth of corn. Kren at C'arseori, only 40 nub*

