VAHIANA. 1259 VASIO.

in to be navigable (Plin. ii. 3. s. 4), anil where

ka the main road through Spain crossed the river,

rt*«n Calagurra and Tritium, (/tin. Ant p.

<J.'I, where, under the name of V' rela, the name

•ii is undoubtedly meant.) Usually identified

iili Korea (cf. Flora, Cantabr. p. 198), though

•me have sought it at Logrtmo, and others at Mu-

iUo at Mo Leza. [T. H. D.]

VAKIA'NA (BapidVa), a town in Lower Moesia

n the Danube, was the garrison of a portion of the

lih legion and of a squadron of horso. (/*. Ant.

. 221); Procop. de Atd. iv. 6; A'ofii/. Imp., where

is called Variuiana and Variru.) Its site is

urknl by the town of Orcaja or Orcam. [L. S.]

\ AkIANAE, a place in Pannonia, on the road

iiiiiing along the left bank of the Savus from Siscia

> Sinnium. (It Ant. pp. 260, 265.) Its exact

ite is only matter of conjecture, [I* S-]

VAKl'Nl, a German tribe mentioned by Pliny

iv. 28) aa a branch of the Vindili or Vandali,

•oil* Tacitus (Germ. 40) speaks of them as be­

ting to the Suevi. But they must have occupied

disLricl in the north of Germany, not far from

Im ceast of the Baltic, and are probably the same

i the rbarodini (*apoStivol) of Ptolemy (ii. 11.

11), in the country between the Chalusus and

aebus; it is highly probable, also, that the Varni

Uwvv«) of Prucopius (B. Goth. ii. 15, iii. 35,

.'. 20, &c.) are the same people as the Varini.

lie Virani (OtUpovroi) of Ptolemy (ii. II. § 17),

rbo dwelt norlli of tlie Albia, seem to have been a

nnrh of the Varini. (Comp. Cassiod. far. iii. 3,

lirre tlicy are called Guami; Wersebe, Betchreib.

rr Gun zteitcken Kibe, Saale, ifc. p. 70.) [L. S.]

VA1UST1. [Narisci.]

VAKL'6 (OCapor), a river which the ancient

wgnpbrrs make the boundary of Gallia and Italia,

< it is now the boundary of France and Italy.

Mela, a. 4; Ptol. ii. 10. § 1.) It is only the lower

art 14* tlie l*ur which forms the boundary between

iii and France. The river gives its name to the

t?!N-k department of far, tlie eastern limit of which

toe lower course of the river Var. The larger

in of the I'or is in the Sardinian territory. It is

>U the mouth of tho Var which Ptolemy names

l«i he fixe* the limit between Italy and Gallia

irbonrnsi*. U'Anville remarks on the line of La-

» (L 404) —

"Finis et Hespcriae promote limito Varus "—

tat be alludes to tlie extension of the boundary of

sir westward from the summit of the Alois Mari-

tiis, which U Italy's natural boundary. lie adds

.it the dependencies of the province of the Alpes

aritiinae comprehended Cemenelium (Cimiez) and

i district, wliicli are on the Italian side of tlie I ar

■ leastof Nicaea(A'ici). [Ckhf.mkijlm]. But

Anville may hare mistaken Lucan's meaning, who

ems to allude to the extension of the boundary of

sly from the Kubicon to the Varus, as Vibius Se-

mtrr says: "Varus nunc Galliam dividit, ante

!l>iron " (eH. Olierl.). However, the critics are not

:wl about this passage. (D'AnviUe, Aotice, ifc.;

kert, Colts**, p. 81.) [G. L.]

VASADA (OodVooa), a town of Lycaonia, a

tile to tlie south-west of Laodiceia (Ptol. v. 4.

10; Hierocl. p. 675; Cone Choked, p. 674,

nrrw it is miswrittcn Of*aa5a,- Cone. Const, iii.

674, where it bears the name of 'Adnata). Its

r is probably marked by the ruins near Chtmnvr

..imoA, between llgm and Ladik. (Hamilton,

Researches, ii. p. 190, in the Journ. of the Roy.

Geogr. Soe. viii. p. 144; Kicpert, in Franz, Fin/

Inschriften, p. 36.) [L. S.]

VASALAETUS (Ouoo-dAouToy or Oi>ao-<lA<Tov

6pot, PtoL iv. 3. §§ 18, 26), a mounuin at the

S. boundary of the Kegio Syrtica. [T. H. D.]

VASATAE. [Cossio or Cossium.J

VASATKS. It is probable that the name Va-

sarii in Ptolemy (ii. 7. § 15) should be Vasatii, a*

IVAnville says, and so it is printed in some Greek

texts. But Ptolemy makes them border on the Ga-

bali and places them farther north than Bordeaux,

though be names their chief town Cossium. The Vo-

catcs are enumerated by Caesar (B. G. iii. 23, 27)

among the Aquitanian peoples who submitted to P.

Crassus in n. c. 56. [Cossio or Cossium.] [G.L.]

VA'SCONES (OidffitaiMr, Strab. iii. pp. 155,

116; ObiaKons, Ptol. ii. 8. §§ 10, 67), a people in

the NE. part of Hispania Tarraconensis, between the

Iberus and the Pyrenees, and stretching as far as the

N. coast, in the present Kavarre auil Guiputcoa.

Their name is preserved in the modem one of the

Basques; although that people do not call themselves

by that appellation, but Evscatdmac, their country

Kuscaltna, and their language Kuscara. (Ford's

Handbook qf Spain, p. 557; cf. W. v. Humboldt,

Untertuch. &c. p. 54.) They went into battle bare­

headed. (Sil. Ital. iii. 358.) They passed among

the Koinaus for skilful soothsayers. (Lamp. Alex.

Sev. 27.) Their principal town was Pompelo

(Pamplona). (Cf. Malte-brun, Moewrt et Usages des

ancient Habitant dEspagne, p. 309.) [T. H. D.]

VA'SCONUM SALTUS, the W. offshoot of tho

Pyrenees, running along the Mare Cantabricum, and

named after tlie Vascones, in whose territory it was.

(Plin. iv. 20. s. 34; Auson. Ep. 15.) It may be

more precisely defined as that portion of the chain

now called Sierra de Vrcamo, S. de Augana, and

S. Sejus, forming the E. part of the Cantabrian

chain. [T.H. D.]

VASIU (Oinaui*: Etk. Vasiensis), a towu of

the Vucontii in Gallia Karboneiisis, and tlie only

town which Ptolemy (ii. 10. § 17) assigns to them.

Vasio is mentioned by Mela (ii. 5) as one of the

richest towns of the Narboneusis; and Pliny (iii.

4) names Vasio and Luc us Augusti at the two

chief towns of the Vocontii. The ethnic name

Vasiensis appears in the Noiitia of the Gallic Pro­

vinces (Civitas Vasiensium), and in inscriptions.

The place is Vniton in the department of Vauclnse,

on the Ouvese, a branch of the Khone. It is now a

Mnall, decayed place; but there are remains which

show that it may have been what Mela describes it

to have been. The ancient remains are spread over

a considerable surface. There is a Roman bridge

of a single arch over the Ouctxe, which still forma

the only communication between tlie town and the

faubourg. The bridge is built on two rocks at that

part of the river where the mountains which shut in

the bed of the river approach nearest. There are

also the remains of a theatre; the semicircle of tho

cavea is clearly traced, and the line of the proscenium

is indicated by some stonet which rise above the

earth. There are also the remain* of a quay on the

banks of the river which was destroyed by an inun­

dation in 1616. The quay was pierced at consider­

able intervals by sewers which carried to the river

the water and filth of the town: these sewers are

large enough fin- a man to stand in upright. There

are also traces of the aqueducts which brought to

the town the water* of the great spring of Urvtcau.

