ROMA. ROMA.

mi It it supported by any authority. The lower

trtrfit, both on the side of the forum and of the

tatron, wait called Infima Nova Via. (Varro, v.

il Miill.) Ovid describes it as touching the forum

'(Jas Nor» Romano nunc Via juncta foro est,"

at vi.M9); whence we must conclude that not

'ib« open space itaelf, but also the ground

mil it on which the temples and basUicae stood,

ti iwladed under the appellation of forum. A

u ifpan, however, to have led from the Nova

• ti tie forum between the temples of Vesta and

■tor, n is shown by remains of pavement disco­

id tbwv; and this may have been the junction

■■■M u> by Ovid, which from his words would

Mihitt been comparatively recent. The Luci'S

>t\i most have lain behind the Nova Via, towards

i'ulioe, and indeed on the very slope of the

ippeari from the following passages: " Ex­

tra nx est a luco Vestae, qui a PaUtii radice in

<en Vain it veins eat" (Cic. Die. i. 45); " M.

<ir.a< it plebe nuntiavit tribunis, se in Nova Via,

•act ucetlum est supra aedem Vestae vocem

j >:leutio aodisse clahorem hnmana"(Liv. v.

. Tie sacellnin here alluded to was that of

> LniMos. (Cic L e. and ii. 32.) It is described

i'trro Gtll. xvi. 17) as "in infima Nova

*; whence we must conclude that it was in the

?m the forum that Caedicius heard the voice.

IC» eaJW .Voro, the road must have been of

t-.ti.(nity, since Livy mentions that Tarquinius

I in it (i. 47); and perhaps it received its

> front it* newness in comparison with the

i Va.

<V» we proceed to describe the monuments on

• r ma. we must observe that some writers,

-[►rally the Italian school of topographers

i F'ir'o Rum. p. 60, se<]., Indie. Top. p. 462),

£ ill -w that the Velia consisted of that height

!■«• between the Palatine, the Esquiline, and

''■■m **le of the forum, but confine the ap-

taa to the northern angle of the Palatine,

'■ A is contended, like the Germalus, was in

I :un*s considered as distinct from the re-

-f tfie hill. Indeed it appears that Niebuhr  
«'ri>»>f the name of Velia to the ridge in

• (BitL L p. 390, Eng. trans.), in which

« wa» of coarse followed by Bunsen (Beschr.

*I l One of the chief arguments adduced  
■ tt ia the account given of the bouse of

- Publicola. Valerius is said to have begun  
it a boose on the same spot where Tnllus

f Sad prt-rionr-ly dwelt (Cic. Rep. ii. 31);

• residence of Tullus Hostilius again is re-

Bo have been on the Velia, on the spot

■Tru occupied by the Aodis Deum Penatium

. tf. Stmt. xii. 51, p. 363, Gerl.; " Tullus

i. .n Velia. ubi postea Deum Penatium aedes

«.* Sufcn. L M> Now Bunsen (lb. p. 85),

bjE Beiker (de -Vurw, p. 43, Ilnndk. p.

but! that the Aedes Deum Penatium here

u. ra» that mentioned by Dionysius Halicar-

eWL 68) as standing in the short cut which

r ii* forum U> the Carinae, in the district

TviAauir. The MSS. vary in the spelling

\irr; \nt we think with Becker that the

» nnW " Sub Velia," •« meant, as Cujacius

-*.a>U the word: and Casanbon (ad Mon.  
) reada OMamu- But, whatever opinion

ratcrtamrd en that point, the other part of

:*h*> of I>Mjnvsius. namely, that the temple

. the abort cot between the forum and the

Carinae, sufficiently indicates the locality; and we

are of opinion, with Becker, that Bunsen arrived at

a very probable conclusion in identifying this temple

with the present circular vestibule of the church of

55. Cosma e Damiano. Yet, if we assume with

those writers that this was the only temple of the

Penates on the Velia, and consequently the spot on

which the house of Publicola stood, then we must

confess that we see considerable force in the objection

of Carina, that such a situation does not correspond

with the descriptions given by Cicero, Livy, and

other writers. All those descriptions convey the

idea that Publicola's house stood on a somewhat

considerable, though not very great, elevation. Thus

Dionysius characterises the spot as \6tput- ortpxti-

utvov T7/f ayopas tyn\bv iirieiKtis Ktd wtpho/ior

iKKt^dutvos (v. 19). And Cicero says of the house:

"Quod in excelsiore loco coepisset aedificare " (AVp.

ii. 31). A still more decisive passago is that of

Livy: " Aedificabat in summa Velia " (ii. 7). For

how can that spot be called the top of the Velia,

which was evidently at the bottom, and, according

to Becker's own showing, in a district called tub

Velia? His attempts to evade these difficulties are

feeble and unsatisfactory (tfe Maris, p. 45). Yet

they are not incapable of solution, without abandon­

ing Niebuhr's theory respecting the Velia, which we

hold to be the true one. There were in fact two

temples of the Penates on the Velia, namely, that

identified by Bunsen with SS. Cosma e Damiano,

and another " in Summa Velia," as Livy says; which

latter occupied the site of the residence of Tullus

Hostilius, and of the subsequent one of Valerins

Publicola. Thus Solinus: "Tullus Hostilius in

Velia (habitavit), ubi postta Deum Penatimn aedes

facta est" (i. 22). We cannot determine the length

of this postta; but it was most probably after the

time of Publicola, and perhaps a great deal later.

But the other temple was certainly older, as it is

mentioned in the sacred books of the Argives (ap.

Varro, L.L. v. § 54: u In Velia apud aedem Deum

Penatium"); and thus it is plain that there must

have been two temples. The one in the Summa

Velia is the Sacellum I.arum mentioned by Tacitus,

in describing the pomoerium of Romulus (.4r,n. xii.

24): and this is another proof that there were two

temples; for it is impossible to imagine that the

pomoerium could have extended so far to the N. as

the church of SS. Cosma e Damiano. The situa­

tion of this sacellum would answer all the require­

ments of the passages before cited. For there is

still a very considerable rise from the forum to the

arch of Titus, near to which the sacellum must

have stood, which rise was of course much more

marked when the forum was in its original state,

or some 20 feet below its present level. Indeed the

northern angle of the Palatine, which Canina supposes

to have been the Velia, does not present any great

difference of height: and thus the objections which

he justly urges against the aedes near the temple of

Faustina do not apply to one on tlw site that we

have indicated. Besides it ap]>ears to us an insn-

perable objection to Canina's view that he admits

the spot near the temple of Faustina to have been

called Sub Velia, thongh it is separated by a con­

siderable space, and by the intervening height, from

the N. angle of the Palatine. The account of As-

couius (ad Cic. Pis. 22) of a house of P. Valerius

14 sub Velia, ubi nunc aedis Victoriae est," is too

confused and imperfect to draw any satisfactory

conclusion from it. By all other authorities the

3 P 4

