HOMA. sio BOMA.

It Una MATtrmn'8 et Gaiaicus (or Dacicus),

i Srouumw, Sakiarium, and Armamknta-

i I. «m evidently gladiatorial schools witli their

fcnmam, situated apparent!/ on the northern

««f the CselUn, not far from the amphitheatre.

hm ittscbed to these institutions are frequently

■Uimi is inscriptions. The Spoliarium and Ar-

.wtiarirun roeak for themselves. The Saniarium

i vwd that does not occur elsewhere, and is

«ris ky Preller to denote a hospital (a sanie)

n The wounded gladiators were received. For

'.man soconnt of these institutions see Preller,

tow. pp. 120—122. Lastly, the Mica Aurea

ki from an epigram of Martial's to have been

opamg room of Domitian's (iL 59): —

)f*i wor; quid sim cemis; coenatio parra.

fa me Cseureum prospicis, ccce, tholum."

a il» mentioned, along with the Meta Sudans,

buJt by Ilomitian in the Chronica Regia Colo-

■M. in Eccard's Corpus Hutoricum (vol. i.

iil)

Tnt DmRtn to the S. of the Caeuan.

U tat S. of the Caelian lies a somewhat hilly

ntt. bounded on the W. by the Aventine, and

^heading the 1st and 12th Regions of Au­

to, or those called Porta Capena and Piscina

fca. The Utter of these is decidedly the least

«uct district of Rome, but the former presents

ni rejects of considerable interest. Of the

:• Citxoa itself we have already treated. In

atmdiate vicinity stood the double Temple of

»« aid Viamn, vowed by Marcellus in bis

it van, but not erected till after his conquest of

c* It was the first intention of Marcellus

ktfi the deities should be under the same roof;

*Wd. the temple seems to have been a mere  
ttt/ n of an ancient one dedicated to Honos by

ii:u Verrucosus many years before. (Cic Ar. D.

I) Bat when Marcellus was about to dedicate

*l to introduce the statue of another deity  
= '-■» sanctnary, the pontitices interposed, and

V tin to do so, on the ground that the

"■'io, or expiation of any prodigy occurring

vnpie so constructed, would be difficult to

(Liv. xxvii. 25.) Hence, Marcellus was

•vrwri u> add another temple of Virtus, and to

"** images of the deities "separatis aedibus;"

"■th tie work was pressed on in haste, he

« eve to dedicate them. (Liv. I.e.; Val. Max.

je.) Nevertheless, we frequently find the

'xAtjooed in the singular number, as if it

»n«d only one building (" ad aedera Honoris

^inma,' Cic Verr. iv. 54; cf. Ascon. ad Cic.

• It; also the Sotitia and Curionan.) Hence,

». ir» mnst natural conclusion is that it con-

J too cellar under the same roof, like the

> <f Vrnns and Rome, a form which agrees

uV aaaiipliuu of Symmachus: "Majores

—tnin Uijuori ac Virtuti gemella facie junctim

(F.puL L 21.) The temple was adorned

-> <pttli of Grecian art brought by Marcellus  
Vnmse: an instance noted and condemned

*y » the first of that kind of spoliation,  
<* obwjves was srobeequently inflicted upon

ri. teropks themselves, and especially upon

•n Maple of Marcellus; for, in Livy's time,

1 tin* omamenta remained, which had pre-

nitni it an object of attraction to all

>*i who visited Rome (xxv. 40, cf. xxxiv. 4).

i They probably disappeared during the Civil Wars,

in which the Roman temples seem to have suffered

both from neglect and spoliation; for in the time of

Cicero the Syracusan spoils still existed in the

temple (in Verr. iv. 54). It appears to have been

burnt in the fire of Nero, since it is mentioned as

having been restored by Vespasian. (Plin. xxxv.

37.)

According to Aurelius Victor (Vir. III. 32) the

annual procession of the Roman knights to the

temple of Castor started from this temple of Honoa

and Virtus, whereas Dionysius (xi. 13) names the

temple of Mars as the starting-place. Becker

(Ilandb. p. 311) regards the discrepancy between

these accounts as tending to prove the correctness

of his assumption that the temples must have lain

close together. That one of the accounts is er­

roneous is a more probable conclusion, and it is a

certain one that it is fallacious to draw any topo­

graphical deductions from such very shadowy pre­

mises. The true site of the Temple of Mars has

been ascertained as satisfactorily as that of any of

the monuments which do not actually speak for

themselves; such, we mean, as the Colosseum,

Trajan's column, the Pantheon, and others of the

like description. There can be no doubt that the

temple of Mars, instead of being close to the Porta

Capena, or at & Auto, as Becker places it (Hundb.

p. 513), lay on the Via Appia, at the distance of

about l.J miles from that gate. The proofs are

overwhelming. In the first place an inscription,

still preserved in the Vatican, recording the level­

ling of the Clivus Martis, was found in the Vigna

Nari, outside of the Porta Appia (the modern

5. Sebaitiano). Secondly, another inscription, in the

Palazzo Barberini, recorded by Fabretti {Inter.

p. 724, no. 443), Marini (f ratr. Arv. p. 8), and

others, testifies that Salvia Marcellina gave a piece

of ground to the Collegium of Aesculapius and

Hygia for a small temple, close to the temple of

Mars, between the first and second milestone on the

Via Appia, on the left-hand side in going from the

city. Thirdly, both the Notitia and Curiosum

place the Aedes Martis at the extremity of the first

Hegio, close to the Flumen Almonis. The Almo

flows outside the Porta Appia, near the Vigna

Nari .*—■

"Est locus ante urbem, qua primum nascitur ingens

Appia, quaque Italo geniitua Alinone Cybebe

Ponit, et Idaeos jam nun reminiscitur atnnes.1'

(Stat Sib. v. 1. MS.)

A brook now flows between the Porta S. Sebas-

tiano and the church of Itomme quo radii, which,

with great probability, has lwen identified with

the Almo. (Cluver, Ital. Ant. p. 718; Westphal,

Rom. Campagna, p. 17.) Fourthly, the same locality

is indicated by several documents uf the middle ages.

Thus, in the Acts of the Martyrs: " Tunc B. Ste-

phanus ductus a militibus foros muros Appiae portae

ad T. Martis" {Act of S. Stephanas and S. Julius').

"Diacones duxerunt in clivum Martis ante templum

et ibidem decollatus est" {Act of S. Siztvs). And

the Mirabilia (in Mostfaucnn, JMar. Ital. p. 283):

"Haec sunt loca quae inveniuntur in passionibus

sanctorum foris portam Appiam, ubi beatus Syxtus

decollatus fuit, et ubi Dominus apparuit Petro,

Domine quo raditt Ibi templum Martis, intua

portam, arcus Syllae." Now, the passages in the

classics which relate to the subject do not run

counter to these indications, but, on the contrary,

3 o 2

