VIADUS. VICUS AQUARIUS. 1307

from Borne to that sea, served to connect the Valerian,

Salarian, and Flaminian Ways. Fur this reason it may

be nscful to set down here the stations and distances

along this line of coast, from the mouth of the Aterrms

to Anemia. They are tbos given in the Antonine

Itinerary (p. 313):—

From the Ostia Aterni (Pescara") to

lla.lris (Atri) ... xvi. M.r.

Castrnm Novum (near Giulia

A'noro) ... xv.

Castrnm Truentinm (at the month

of the Tronto) ... xii.

Castellum Firmanum (Porto di

Fermo) .... xxiv.

Potentia (J\>tema) - xxii.

Ninnauflpbiit/nui) - - X.

Anc0l^»^ - viii.

Here coast-road joined one branch of the Via

^£fl^kia; and the distances from Ancona to Arimi-

^P'11 he found in the article on that road. [Via

^^ne Via Valeria, like the Aemilia and Flaminia,

pave name to one of the later divisions or provinces

nf Italy under the Roman Empire, which was called

Valeria. It comprised the land of the Marsi, Peligni,

and Vestini, through which the road really passed, as

well as the land of the Sabines, which was traversed

by the Via Salaria. [Italia, p. 93.] [E. H. B.]

VIADUS (Ovi'aJot), a river of Germany, west

of the Vistula, mentioned by both Ptolemy (ii. 11.

§ 2) and Marcianus (p. 53) as flowing into the

Mare Suevicum or Baltic Neither of these authors

mentions either its source or its course, but it is

generally assumed to he the Oder. Ptolemy in

another passage (ii. 11. § IS) mentions, according

to the common reading, a river 'looofa, which

eome regard as a tributary of the Viadus, and others

as a name of the upper Viadus; but Wilberg, the

latent editor of Ptolemy, treating 'IaSova as a corrupt

n^idlnjr. has altered it to Ovt'aoor. [L. S.]

VIANA (Oiliara), a place in Rhaetia, on the

road from Vemania to Augusta Vindelicorum (Ptol.

ii. IS. §4); it is marked in the Peutinger Table as

Vtaca, and its site is now occupied by a place called

Wageck. [L. S.]

VIATIA. [Beatta.]

VIBI FORUM. [For™ Vibii.]

VIBINUM, or VIBOXIUM ('HMnor: Botim),

m town of Apulia, in the interior of that country, 7

miles S. of Aecae (7'ro/a) and 15 from Luceria.

Irs correct name is given by Pliny, who enumerates

the Vibinates among the municipal communities of

Alalia, and by inscriptions which are still extant at

liorvto, an episcopal town situated on one of the

lower elopes of the Apennines, on the richt of the

rirer Cemrro (Cerbalus). (Plin. iii. 11. a. 16;

H^'lAtrn, Sot. ad Clwer. p. 272.) There is no

i>, tibt that it is the plaee of which the name

i* cormptly written in Ptolemy, Vibamum (Owl­

et apro*. iii-1. § 72), and which is called by Polvbius

Vibonium ('lgiipior, for which we should probably

resul Oviftivtor. Schweigh. a/l loc.). The latter

siithnr distinctly places it among the, Daunian Apu-

li-iris, and mentions that Hannibal established his

caemp there, and thence laid waste the territory

uf Arpi and other neighbouring cities. (Polvb. iiL

SS.J [K. H. U.]

VIBIOXES (OiiisWer or ICfamt, Ptol. iii. 5.

s S3). ■ people of European Sarmatia, on the N. side

rf Moant liodinns, probably on the river /a-n or

/efixa in Volhynia. [T. H. D.]

VTBO, VIBO VALENTIA. [Hiitokium.]

VIBONENSIS SINUS, another name of the Hip-

poniates Sinns. [Hippoxhtm.]

VICENTIA or V1CETIA (OJfcrrfa: Etk. Vi-

centinus: Yicmm), a city of Venetia in the N. of

Italy, situated between Patavium and Verona,and dis­

tant 22 miles from the former and 33 from the latter

city (Itin. Ant. p. 128 ; Itin. Titer, p. 559). No

mention is found of Vicentia before the Roman con­

quest of this part of Italy, and the earliest record of

its existence is an inscription of the republican period

which informs us that the limits between its territory

and that of the Atestini were fixed and determined

by the proconsul Sex. Atilius Saranus in B.C. 136.

(Orel!. Inter. 3110.) It is also incidentally men­

tioned as one of the municipal towns in the N. of

Italy, in B.c 43. (Cic ad Fam. xi. 19.) Strabo

notices it as one of the minor towns of Venetia, and

Tacitus tells us that it was taken by Antonius, the

general of Vespasian, on his advance from Patavium

to Verona, in a manner that sufficiently proves it not

to have been a town of any great importance. (Tac.

Hilt. iii. 8 ; Strab. v. p. 214.) But it always con­

tinued to be a municipal town, and the younger Pliny

mentions a cause in which the Vicentini were

engaged before the Roman Senate in defence of their

municipal rights. (Plin. Ep. v. 4. 14.) Wo learn

also from Suetonius that it was the birthplace of the

grammarian Remmius Palaemon. (Suet. Gramm.

23.) It is noticed also by both Pliny and Ptolemy,

as well as in the Itineraries, and evidently continued

till near the cloee of the Roman Empire, to be a mu­

nicipal town of some consideration, though very in­

ferior to its opulent neighbours, Verona and Pata­

vium. (Plin. iii. 19. s. 23 ; Ptol. iii. 1. § 30;

Orell. Inter. 3219). It sufTered severely in common

with most of the cities of Venetia from the invasion

of At'ila (a.d. 452), by whom it was laid waste

with fire and sword (Ilitt. Mitctll. xv. p. 549), but

it recovered from this catastrophe, and appears again

under the Lombards as a considerable city of Venetia

(P. Diac. ii. 14, v. 39). During the middle ages

it became for some time an independent republic, and

is still a populous city with about 30,000 inhabit­

ant", but has no remains of antiquity.

The name is written in inscriptions Vicctia, which

has been restored by recent editors as the true read­

ing both in Pliny and in Tacitus, but it is certain

that before the close of the Roman Empire the name

Vicentia (which has been retained in the modern

Vieema) was already in use. [E. H. B.]

VIC1ANUM, a place in Moesia (Tab. rent),

probably the Bf'pfara of Procopius (de Aid. iv. 4.

p. 281), and the present Nova lierda, [T. H. D.]

VICTORIA (Ouorritpta, Ptol. ii. 3. § 9). the

most eastern place belonging to the Damnonii in

Britannia Barbara. Camden (p. 1190) thinks that

it is Bode's Caer Gvidi. and that it stood on Inch~

keilh Itlaml, in the Frilk of Forth; but Horsley is

of opinion that it is Abernethy, near Perth. [T. 1I.I>.]

VICTO'RIAE MONS, a mountain in Hispania

Citerior, near the Iberus. (Liv. xxiv. 41.) [T. H. D.]

VICTO'RIAE PORTUS, a haven belonging to

•Tnliobriga, a town of the Cantabri in Hispania Tar-

raconensis. (Plin. iv. 20. s. 34.) Now Snnttmna.

(Cf. Florex, Ftp. Soar. xxiv. p. 9.) [T. H. D.]

VICTUMVIAE. [Ticisia].

VICUS ALEXANDRI. [Via OsTtiarew.]

VICUS AMBIATINUS. [Ambiatisus.]

VICUS AQUA'RIUS, a place in the territory of

the Vaccaci in Hispania Tarraconcnsis (/(m. AnL

