SINAI. SINDA SARMATICA. 1005

fittl by Abderakhman from the southern coast of

>nbis, preserved and translated by Schultens, be

rrert, it will follow that the old Adite character

is decipherable even two centaries later than the

i> Milled to Cosmas, who could scarcely have

uad to discover the Christian origin of these in­

flations, if they had been really Christian. Indeed

out wall be questioned whether any Christians

*#J hart been sufficiently conversant with this an­  
al character to use it as freely as it is used on

a racks of the peninsula. Certainly if the hypo-

eb if this place having been resorted to as a

jra of pilgrimage by the pagan tribes of Arabia,

4 10 having acquired a sanctity in the very

. ."-t times, could be established, the fact might

nub a clue to the future investigation of this

*nl; interesting subject, and, as Hitter has sug-  
fcUd. might scire to remove some difficulties in the

>ovd Narrative. Now the journal of Antoninus

serotinus does in fact supply so precisely what

u wanting, that it is singular that his statement

■ *:tracted so little notice in connection with the

which, however, he does not

or even allude to. But what we

him is not unimportant, viz., that be-

t the time of Islam, in " the ages of ignorance,"

tit Mohammedans call tbem, the peninsula of

wnt Sinai was a principal seat of the idolatrous

petition of the Arabians; and that a feast was

si there in honour of their miraculous idol, which

a retorted to by Ishmaelilca, as he calls them,

n all porta; the memorial of which feast seems

il'-' be preserve*! by the Bedawin. (Burckhardt,

no, pp. 566, SC7.) Now when it is remembered

it the eastern commerce of Greece and Rome,

stated by the Arabs of i'emtn and Iladramant,

tt have brought their merchants and sailors to

1 vicinity of this ancient sanctuary at Arsinoe or

Eitna, the pilgrimage becomes almost a matter

ujrte; and the practice which we know prevailed

tlair earn country of graving their memorials

-l an iron pen in the rock for ever, was naturally  
by them, and imitated by the Christian

rr.ms in after times. Undue stress has been laid

tne frequency of the inscriptions about Serbal,

trasted with t heir rarity about Jebel Misa ; bnt it

ol 1 be remembered that they are executed almost

irely in the soft sandstone which meets the

nit* an and around Serbal, but which is scarcely

ad in the interior, where the hard, primitive rock

ISA encourage the scribbling propensities of the

rrl>r», as the softer tablets in the more western

I. where the blocks of trap-stone (which are also

yir interspersed with the granite, and which

wit a black surface without, but arc lemon-

within) were studiously selected for the

rip'iona, which, in consequence, come out with

fieri of a rubricated book or illuminated manu-

pt. the Mack surface throwing out in relief the

ea-cujonred inscriptions.

rbai account of the peninsula must not be con-

led without a brief notice of the very remarkable

y\» of ~arbut cl-Chiidem, and the stelae which

•.r.l in such numbers, not only in the temple,

in other western parts of the peninsula, where

• masses of copper, mixed with a quantity of

-r. were and still are found in certain strata of  
aaaadwtone rocks along the skirts of the prime-

chain, and which gave to the whole district the

m still found in the hieroglyphics, Maphat, " the

;er land,' which was under the particular pro-

tection of the goddess Hathor, Mistress of Maphat.

The temple, dedicated to her, stands on a lofty sand­

stone ledge, and is entirely filled with lofty stelae,

many of them like obelisks with inscriptions on both

sides; so crowded with them in fact, that its walls

seem only made to circumscribe the stelae, although

there are several erected outside it, and on the ad­

jacent hills. Tho monuments belong, apparently, to

various dynasties, but Dr. Lepsius has only specially

mentioned three, all of the twelfth. The masshc

crust of iron ore covering the hillocks, 250 yards

long and 100 wide, to the depth of 6 or 8 feet, and

blocks of scoriae, prove that the smelting furnaces of

the Egyptian kings were situated on these airy

heights; but the caverns in which lite ore was

found contain the oldest effigies of kings in exist­

ence, not excepting the whole of Egypt and tho

pyramids of Gizeh.

The chief authorities for this article, besides those

referred to in the text, are Niebuhr (Yoyagt tii

Aralrie, vol. i. pp. 181—204); Seetzen (rYetsen, vol.

iii. pp. 55 — 121). For the physical history and

description of the peninsula, Russegger is by fur the

fullest and most trustworthy authority (Beisen, vol.

iii. pp. 22—58). Dr. Robinson has investigated the

history and geography of the peninsula, with his

nsual diligence (Trarels, vol. i. §§ 3, 4. pp. 87—

241); and Dr. Wilson has added some important

observations in the way of additional information or

correction of his predecessor (Lands of the Bible,

vol. i. chapters vi.—viii. pp. 160—275). Lepsius's

Tour from Thebes to the Peninsula of Sinai

(letters, pp. 310—321,556—562), which has been

translated by C. II. Cottrell (London, 1846), argues

for Serial as the true Mountain of the Law; and his

theory has been maintained with great learning and

industry by Mr. John Hogg (Remarks on Mount

Serbal, dx. in Transactions of the Royal Society of

Literature, 1849). The graphic description of the

country from Mr. A. P. Stanley's pen is the latest

contribution to the general history of the penin­

sula (Sinai and Palestine, 1856). The decipher­

ment of the inscriptions has been attempted by the

learned Orientalists of Germany, Gesenius, Roediger,

Beer, and others (Ch. Bunsrn, Christianity and

Mankind, vol. iii. pp. 231—234); and Mr. Forster

has published a vindication of his views against the

strictures of Mr. Stanley on his original work (The

Voice of Israel from the Hocks of Sinai, 1851;

The Israelitish A uthorship of the Sinaitic Inscrip­

tions, 1856). [G. W.]

SINCHI, a sub-division of the Sarmatian tribe of

the Tauri. (Amm. Mar. xxii. 8. § 33.) [T. H. D.]

SINDA (MvSa: Eth. Sindensis), a town which

seems to hare been situated on the western frontier

of Pisidia, in the neighbourhood of Cihyra and the

river Canlaris (Liv. xxxviii. 15; Strabo, xii. p.

570, xiii. p. 630). Stephanus B. (t. r. 2ir2i'a), who

speaks of Sindiu as a town of Lycia, is probably

alluding to the same place. (Comp. Hierocl. p. 6X0;

Polyb. Excerpt, de Leg. 30.) Some writers have

confounded Siuda with Isionda, which is the Mr)

surprising, as Livy mentions the two as different

towns in the same chapter. (Leake, Asia Minor,

p. 152.) [L. a]

SINDA SARMATICA (2lvSa mi^n, I'tol. v. 9.

§ 8), a town or village in Asiatic Sarmatia, in tho

territory of the Sindi, with an adjoining harbour

(XirSxbs \tuvr, Ptol. lb.), 180 stadia E. of the

mouth of the Bosporus Cimmerius at OotDBOBdwHaj

and, according to Arrian (Per. P. Eux. p. 19), 500

