THEBAE BOEOTIAE. THEBAE BOEOTIAE. 1151

I it 1 peat distance from it. But as Boeotia lies

Iwtrn two seas, the founders of Thebes chose a

4 in the centre of the country, where water was

7 plentiful, and where the nature of the ground

» admirably adapted for defence. The hill, upon

urb the town stands, rises about 150 feet above

> j liin, and lies about 2 mile* northward of the

;ir?t part of the ridge. It is bounded on the cast

I west by two small rivers, distant from each other

■j! 6 or 7 stadia, and which run in such deep

■<na as to farm a natural defence on either side

iIk city. These rivers, which rise a little south

tot city, and flow northward into the plaia of

rixs. are the celebrated streams of Ismenus and

tt. Between them flows a smaller stream, which

drd the city into two parts, the western division

String the Cadmeia*, and the southern the hill

wiitis and the Ampheion. This middle torrent

alM Cnopus by Leake, but more correctly Strc-

» [t'allim. Hymn, m Dtl. 76) by Eorchhaminer.

> I'ttopus is a torrent flowing from the town

tyu, and contributing to form the Ismenus, whence

* (Mrrectly described by the Scholiast on Nicander  
IV ume as the Ismenus. (Strab. ix. p. 404;

xi.i. Thrriae. 889, with Schol.) The three

a iv of Kmenus, l>irce, and Strophia unite in

|4jin hel»w the city, to which Calliuiachus

:.) appears to allude:—

I'T^rou xlpa WUTpof.

h- middle torrent is rarely mentioned by the

writers; and the Ismenus and Dirce are the

mi alluded to when Thebes is called ttwdra/ws

it. (Eurip. SupyL 622; comp. J'lwen. 825.

ri. 5, litre. Fur. 572.) Both the Ismenus

Lhrve, though so celebrated in antiquity, are

■ :ri£ hot torrents, which are only full of water in

» mter after heavy rains. The Ismenus is the

-m stream, now called Ai Idtmi, which rises  
i a clear and copious fountain, where the small

rvli of St. John stands, from which the river de-

■ ita name. This fountain was called in anti-

v Melia, who was represented as the mother of

im and Tenerus, the hero of the plain which

l;i*nus inundates. It was sacred to Ares, who

to Iiave stationed a dragon to guard it.

..:Tiach. Hymn, in Ikl. 80; Spanheitn, ad loc.;

I. Pytk. xi. 6; l'aus. ix. 10. § 5; Korchhammer,

loam, p. 113.) The Dirce is the western stream,

•-ailed I'tatziotutQi which rises from several

*iics, aud not from a single one, like the Is-  
na. A considerable quantity of the water of the

.=Wum is now diverted to supply the fountains

d* town, and it is represented as the purest of

Thrlaui streams; and it appears to have been

vi'^ed in antiquity likewise, judging from the

•■r:\ brstuwrd upon it by the poets, ^tiyniiv

; ISnd. Isthm. ri. 109, xaAAi^oor. hlhm. vili.

r^wp Atptatuy *vrpaQi<rraJov ww/jultuv, Aescb.

e. Theb. 307; aoAAnriro^ot, Eurip. 1'hoen.

Cuprni rutin \tvniy. Here. Fur. 578.)

■urh the position of Thebes and of ita cele-

i ttreams is certain, almost every point con.

*1 with its topography is more or less doubtful.  
m other cities of Greece, which have been inha-

ontiauuusiy. most of the ancient buildings

Tn* western division contains two eminences,

question as to which of them was the Cad-

• will be discussed beluw.

have disappeared; but nowhere has this taken place

more completely than at Thebes. Not a single trace

of an ancient building remains; and with the ex­

ception of a few scattered remains of architecture

and sculpture, and some fragments of the ancient

walls, there is nothing but the site to indicate where

the ancient city stood. In the absence of all ancient

monuments, there must necessarily be great uncer­

tainty; and the three writers who have investigated

the subject upon the Bpot, differ so widely, that

Leake places the ancient city to the south of the Cad­

meia, and Ulrichs to the north of it, while Korch-

hainmer supposes both the western heights between

the Strophia and tile Dirce to have been in a certain

sense the Cadmeia, and the lower city to have stood

eastward, between the Strophia and the Ismenus.

In the great difficulty of arriving at any independ­

ent judgment upon the subject without a personal

inspection of the site, we have adopted the hypo­

thesis of Korchhammer, which seems consistent with

the statements of the ancient writers.

The most interesting point in Theban topogra|>hy

is the position of the seven celebrated Theban gates.

They are alluded to by Homer (e>^(»nr foot ttt r awi ■

kvio, Od. xi. 2C3) and Hesiod (iirrdwvAof S^Sn,

Op. 161); and their names are given by seven diffe­

rent authors, whose statements will be more easily

compared by consulting the following table. The

numeral represents the order in which the gates arc

mentioned by each writer. The first line gives the

names of the gates, the second the names of the Ar­

rive chiefs, the third the emblems upon their shields,

and the fourth the names of the Theban chiefs.

Nonnus designates five of the gates by the names

of the gods and the planets, and to the other two, to

which he gives the names of Electrae and Oncaea,

he also adds their position. Hyginus calls the gates

by the names of the daughters of Amphion; and

that of Ogygia alone agrees with time in the other

writers. But, dismissing the statements of Non­

nus and Hyginus, whose authority is of no value

upon such a question, we find that the remaining five

writers agree as to the names of all the seven gates,

with two or three exceptions, which will be pointed

out presently. The position of three of the gates

is quite clear from the description of I'ausanias alone.

These are the Klkctuak, Proetidks, and Nei-

TAE. Pausonios says that Electrae is the gate

by which a traveller from Plataca enters Thebes (ix.

8. § 6); that there is a hill, on the right hand of

the gate, sacred to Apollo, called the Ismenian, since

the river Ismenus runs in this direction (ix. 10. § 2);

and that on the left hand of the gate are the ruins

of a house, where it was said that Amphitryon lived,

which is followed by an account of other ancient mo­

numents on the Cadmeia (ix. 11. § 1). Hence it is

evident that the gate Electrae was in the south of the

city, between the hills kmenius and Cadmeia. The

gate Proetides was on the north-eastern side of the

city, since it led to Chains (ix. 18. § 1). The gate

Ncitac was on the north-western side of the city, since

it led to Oncbestus and Delphi; and the river which

I'ausanias crossed, could have been no other than

I the Dirce (ix. 25. §§ 1, 3, ix. 26. § 5). The names

of these three gates are the same in all the five

writers: the manuscripts of Apollodorus have the

corrupt word 'Oxittat, which has been altered by

the editors into 'Orxattas, instead of N^Itoi, which

was the reading suggested by Porson {ad. Eurip.

Pkoen. 1150), and adopted by Valckenacr. (See

L'nger, Thebaua J'aradoxa, vol. i. p. 313.)

