SINUS AD GRADUS. 1009 SION.

wmd by Pliny u well as the I.iher Coloniarum

t in "oppidam," or ordinary municipal town,

it. E 5. i. 9; /.•'.. Col. L c.) It whs the fur-

■: urn in Latium, as that term was understood

h day* of Strabo and Pliny, or " Latium adjec-

i,' u the latter author terms it; and its territory

rafcd to the river Sam, which formed the limit

■m Latinm and Campania. (Strab. v. pp. 219,

. Mi Plin. iii. 5. a. 9; Mel. ii. 4. § 9.) At

■far period indeed Polybins reckoned it a

a af Campania, and Ptolemy follows the same

uScation, as he makes the Lin's the southern

t at Latium (Pol. iii. 91; Ptol. iii. 1. § 6); but

Ansicm adopted by Strabo and Pliny is probably

But correct. The Itineraries all notice Sinuessa

i 'till existing town on the Appian Way, and

11: 9 miles from Mintumae, which is, however,

Jnbly below the truth. (Itin. Ant. p. 108;

nW. p. 611; Tab. Pent.) The period of its

rvcuon is unknown.

at miat of Sinuessa are still visible on the sea-

I ja»t below the hill of Mondragone, which

■ the last underfall or extremity of the ton;;

i af llontt Mauico. The most important are

laf an aqueduct, and of an edifice which ap-

> to have been a triumphal arch; but the

■ plain is covered with fragments of ancient

lap. (Clnver. Ital. p. 1080; Romanelli, vol.

1a abort distance from Sinuessa were the baths

irrnul springs called Aquak Sinuessanae,

• appear to have enjoyed a great reputation

't tat Romans. Pliny tells us they were

cwi a remedy for barrenness in women and for

t:r in men. They are already mentioned by

ai early as the Second Punic War; and though

ine was eclipsed at a later period by those of

i ici other fashionable watering-places, they

■ - aued in use under the Kinptre, and were

a! u» among others by the emperor Claudius.

uil IS; Tac. Ann. xii. 66; Plin. xxxi. 2. s.

|[ *u there, also, that the infamous Tigellinus

> il-J to put an end to his own life. (Tac.

L ft; Pint. Oth. 2.) The mild and warm

u of Sinuessa is extolled by some writers as

Mug to the effect of the waters (Tac ,4nn.

. Hence it is called " Sinuessa tepens" by

1 luliras, and "mollis Sinuessa" by Martial,

hi no. 528; Mart. vi. 42.) The site of the

• u still called / Bagni, and the remains of

■ buildings still exist there. [E. II. B.]

RS AD GRADUS or AD GRADUS. [Fossa

XI A.]

R, II. (SiaV), originally the name of a

»Ur fortress or hill of Jerusalem, but often

• poetical and prophetic books extended to

"We city, especially to the temple, for a

\ which will presently be obvious. Sion pro­

as been always assumed by later writers to

> SW. hill of Jerusalem, and this has been

fa granted in the article on Jerusalem

rnuut, p. 18]. The counter hypothesis of

"writer, however, maintained with great

ar. demands some notice under this head.

• Pp {AiUUnt Jerusalem, 1855) admits the

al aieatiry of Sion and the city of David, but

» bulb to have been distinct from the upper

Ui-epbas, which latter he identifies with the

15ioa\ in agreement with other writers. The

■»» of the name and position of Sion he

a» far hack as the return from the Babylonish

captivity, believing that the Jews had lost the tra­

dition of its identity with the city of David; so

that, while they correctly placed the latter, they

erroneously fixed the former where it is still found,

viz., at the SW. of the Temple Mount, which mount

was in fact the proper " Sion," identical with " the

city of David;" for it is admitted that the modem

Sion is identical not only with that recognised by

the Christian (he might have added the Jewish) in­

habitants of Jerusalem, and by all Christian (and

.Jewish) pilgrimB and travellers from the days of

Constantine, but with the Sinn of the later Jewish

days, and with that of the Maccabees. The elabo­

rate argument by which it is attempted to remove

this error of more than 2000 years' standing from

the topography of Jerusalem, cannot here be stated,

much less discussed; but two considerations may be

briefly mentioned, which will serve to vindicate for

the SW. hill of the city the designation which it has

enjoyed, as is granted, since the time of the Baby­

lonish captivity. One is grounded on the language

of Holy Scripture, the other on Josephus. Of the

identity of the original Sion with the city of David,

there can be no doubt. Mr. Thrupp (pp. 12, 13)

has adduced in proof of it three conclusive passages

from Holy Scripture (2 Sam. v. 7; 1 Kings, viii. 1;

1 Chron. xi. 5). It is singular that he did not see

that the second of these passages is utterly irrecon­

cilable with the identity of the city of David with the

Temple Mount; and that his own attempt to recon­

cile it with his theory, is wholly inadequate. Ac-

cording to that theory Mount Sion, or the city of

David, extended from the NW. angle of the present

Haram, to the south of the same enclosure; and the

tombs of David, which were certainly in the city of

David, he thinks might yet be discovered beneath

the south-western part of the Haram (p. 161). That

the temple lay ou this same mount, between these

two points, is not disputed by any one. Now, not to

insist upon the difficulty of supposing that the

Utreshing-fioor of Araunah the Jebusite, where the

temple was undoubtedly founded (2 Chron. iii. I),

lay in the very heart of the city of David, from

which David had expelled the Jebusites, it is demon­

strable, from the contents of the second passage

above referred to, that the temple was in no sense in

the city of David; for, after the completion of the

temple, it is said in that and the parallel passage (

Chron. v. 2, 5, 7) that Solomon and the assembled

Israelites brought up the ark of the covenant of the

Lord out of the city of David, which is Sion, into

the temple which he had prepared for it on what

Scripture calls Mount Moriah (2 Chron. iii. 1 )■

Again, in 2 Samuel, v. 6—9, we have the account

of David's wresting " the stronghold of Sion, the same

is the city of David,'' out of the hands of the Jebu-

sites; after which " David dwelt iu the fort, and

called it the city of David." Josephus, in recording

the same events, states that David 11 laid siege to

Jerusalem, and took the lower city by assault, while

the citadel still held out." (-•!»/. vii. 3. § 2.) This

citadel is clearly identified with the upper city, both

in this passage and in his more detailed description

of the city, where he says 11 that the hill upon which

the upper city was built was by far the highest,and

on account of its strength was called by King David

the fortress" (ippovpiov). (BelL Jud. v. 4. § 1.)

We are thus led to a conclusion directly opposite to

that arrived at by Mr. Thrupp, w ho says that " the

accounts in the books of Samuel and Chronicles re­

present David as taking the stronghold of Sion first

LB. 3t

