SIHAt. SINAI. 1003

irophifi mil the Sinae Ichlhyophagi. Among

Belies mentioned by Ptolemy, namely, Bramma,

km, Cattigira, Acadra, Aspithra, Cocconagra,

u, and Thinae or Sinae, the last was un-

aedlT the most important, and was regarded by

•ad others as the capital of the nation. It has

i conjectured to be Thin, in the province of

ia\ or (Ten Sankin itaelf. It may be remarked

the Sinae were anciently called Tbinae (Sikou);

Kh it is atid that this form of their name only

tfrom the Arabic pronunciation of Sinae. (See

Jer.i p. 518; Ueaenius,//e6. Lex. p. 788.) The

turn in point of importance was Calligara,

h both Ptolemy and Marcianus regard as the

'placeof trade. [Cattioara.] [T.H.D.]

MAI (lira Spot), the celebrated mountain of

a Fetraea. It, lion ever, lent its name to the

e prainsula in which it was situated, which

therefore first be described. It is formed by

tforcalion of the Red Sea at its northern ex-

ty, and is bounded by the Ileroopoliticus Sinus

m of Suez) on the west, and the Aelaniticus

l:ht Gvlfof Akaba) on the east, ending in the

inni Promoutoriurn (Ras Mohammed). At the

wn extremity of the Sea of Suez stood Arsinoe

\ tod Aelana (Akaba), at the extremity of the

that bears its name. The caravan road of the

Haj, which joins tbeae two towns, traverses a

.eland of desert, now called Et-Tib—" the

■r>*s of the Wandering,'* part of ancient

■ol To the south of this road, the plateau

dk formation is continued to Jtbel Tib, the

'oot\ of Ptolemy, extending from the eastern

I western gulf, in a line slightly curved to the

, and bounded in that direction by a belt of

toe, consisting of arid plains, almost without

or signs of vegetation. To this succeeds the

rt of primitive granite formation, which tx-

qnite to the southern cape, and runs into the

•/ Akaba on the east, but is separated by a

r strip of alluvial soil called El-Kda from the

'f Sua. The northern part of the Tih is

u> Scripture "the wilderness of I'aran"

4 xii. 16, xiii. 3, xxxii. 8, &c), in which

raclitas abode or wandered during great part of

Ity years; although Eusebius and St. Jerome,

I be presently seen, identify this last with the

ana of Sin. This wilderness of Sin is com-

■oppesed to be connected, in name and situa-

tith Mount Sinai; but as the Israelites

1 on the wilderness of Sin on leaving their en-

wst by the Red Sea, the next station to

'.tad. xvL I; Xumi. xxxiii. 10, 11), and

•d it between Klim and Rephidim, where

led apparently left it (Exod xviL 1),—for

ah and Aluah are inserted between the two in

vt xxxiii. 12—14,— and yet bad not arrived

■ (ver. 15; Exod. xvi. 1), it may be ques-

ohrther the identification rests on solid ground,

as and St, Jerome, who distinguish between

eru of Sin and Sinai, yet appear to extend

mer too far eastward. "The desert of Sin,"

"extends between the Red Sea and the

< Sine; fur they came from the desert of Sin

kidus, and thence to the desert of Sinai, near

Sua, where Hoses received the dispensation

Law; bat this desert is the same as that of

I according to the Hebrew, but not according

L.V.V The confusion indicated by this last

Buy be explained by the observations, 1 st,

n, abich is a synonym" for the wilderness of ,

Kadesh" (A*um6. xx. 1, xxxiii. 36), is identical

in Greek with the Sin (i. e. Xlv); the 2 representing

both the y (tsadi) of |y and the Q (sameili) of

I'D ; and, 2dly, that instead of making Zin iden­

tical with Kadesh, as it is in the Hebrew, the LXX.

read so as to make "the desert of Paran," which

they identify with " the desert of Kadesh," an in­

termediate station between Sin and Mount Hor.

(iVumA. xxxiii. 36, in LXX.)

The wilderness of Sin, then, must be fixed to the

northwest part of the granite district of the }»enin-

sula between Serbal and the Red Sea, while Zin is

north of Ezion Gcber, between it and Mount Hor,—

the southern extremity in fact of Wady Musa, or

the Arabah, north of Akaba,

With respect to Sinai, it is difficult to decide be­

tween the rival claims of the two mountains, which,

in modem as in ancient times, have been regarded

as the Mountain of the Law. The one is Serbal

above-mentioned, situated towards the NW. ex­

tremity of the granite district, towering with its five

sharp.pointed granite peaks above the fruitful and

agreeable oasis of Wady Pharan, still marked by

extensive ruins of the churches, convents, and build­

ings of the old episcopal town of Paran; the other

between 30 and 40 miles south-east of Serbal, in

the heart of the granite district, where native tra­

ditions, of whatever value, have affixed to the

mountains and valleys names connected with the

inspired narrative of the giving of the. Law, and

where the scenery is entirely in unison with the

events recorded. Emerging from the steep and

narrow valley Xakba Uawa, whose precipitous sides

rise to the perpendicular height of 1000 feet, into

the wide plain called HWy Mima, at the northern

base of the traditionary Horeb, Russegger describM

the scene as grand in the extreme. "Bare granite

mountains, whose summits reach to a height of moro

than 7000 Paris feet above the level of the sea;

wonderful, I might say fabulous, forms encompass a

plain more than a mile in length, in the background

of which lies the convent of St. Catharine, at the

foot of Jebel .Vita, between the holy Horeb on the

west, and Ebestimmi on the east." In this valley,

then, formed at the base of Horeb by what may be

called a junction of the Wady-er-Rahiih and Waily-

eth-Sheiib, but which, according to Russcgger's ex­

press testimony, bears in this place the native name

of Wady Aftua, must the children of Israel have

encamped before Jebel Musa, whose nigged northern

termination, projected boldly into the plain, bearj

tbe distinctive name of Rom Sasafah. Jebel Sliua

rises to the height of 5956 Paris feet above the

sea, but is far from being the highest of the group.

Towering high above it, on the south, is seen the

summit of Horeb, having an elevation of 7097 Paris

feet, and south of that again Jebel Kalberina, more

than 1000 feet higher still (viz. 8168 Paris feet),

all outtopped by Jtbel-om-Shomer, the high

this remarkable group, whirh attains an altitude of

8300 Paris feet. Over against Jebel Mita on tho

north, and confining the valley in that direction, is

the spur of a mountain which retains in its name,

Jebel Sena, a memorial of the ancient Scripture ap­

pellation of the Mountain of the Law. To attempt

anything like a full discussion of the questions at

issue between the advocates of the conflicting tradi­

tions or hypotheses, would be as inconsistent with the

character of such an article as this, as with the

limits which must be assigned it: a very few remarks

