SARDINIA. 909' SARDINIA.

i tin aha!. (Id. xix. t.) The chronology of

a*:* does not claim much confidence; bat it seems

"Jallc that in this butane* it ia not far from cor-

and that we may place the Carthaginian con-

nttateatSOO—480B.C. It can hardly bare taken

>Kt much earlier, aa the Ionian Greeks still looked

[■n the island as open to colonisation in the reign

I trios Hyitaspis.

•if the details and circumstances of the Cart na­

tion aaquest we have no account; but we are

fcJ to general terms that they made themselves

of the whole island, with the exception of

'rcfjnsd mountain districts which were held by

r liioues and Corsi. (Pans, x. 17. § 9; PoL

1ft) They founded many towns, and from their

fenue cmlisstion struck such deep root into the

ittrj, that eren in the time of Cicero the man-

n, character, and institutions of the Sardinians

"still essentially Punic. It even appears that a

disable part of the population was of Panic

pa, though this was doubtless confined to the

*m sod the more settled districts in their imme-  
iit wagbbourbood. (Cic pro Scaur. §§ 15, 42,

) Hot notwithstanding these clear evidences of

'riteot of the Carthaginian influence, we have

fly any account of the long period of above two

tana and a half, daring which they continued

*cn of all the more important portions of the  
L*i. An isolated notice occurs m 11. c. 379 of a

at revolt in Sardinia, the inhabitants of which took

'image of a pestilence that had afflicted the Car-

ciaiana, and made a vigorous effort to shake off

* yak*, hot without success. (Diod. xv. 24.)  
'tarn also that already at this period Sardinia

> shit to export large quantities of corn, with

at it supplied the fleets and armies of Carthage.

'Ju xiv. 63, 77.) The story current among the

»rj, of the Carthaginians having systematically

Pirated agriculture in the island (Pseud. Arist.

Ifraw, 104), ia therefore, in all probability, with-

tvodation. During the First Punk War (b. c.

I L. Oroeliaa Scipio, after the conquest of

ns in Corsica, directed his course to Sardinia,

he defeated the Carthaginian fleet near Olbia,

'M not venture to attack that city. (Zonar.

II) Having, however, received reinforcements

• Kuan*, be landed in the island, totally defeated

'inhaginian general Hanno, and took the city

■Ma, an wWl as several minor towns. The next

'C Sulptooa followed up this advantage, and

fed tin) greater part of the island, apparently

UsJe oppoaitiia. (Zonar viii. 11, 12; Pol. i.

Onav ir. 7, 8; Flor. ii. 2. § 16; Val. Max. r.

'rral footing was, however, gained by the Ro-

■ a Sardinia during the First Punic War; and

r^ace which put a close to that contest left the

fwhjeet to Carthage as before. But a few

i srWwards the Carthairinian mercenaries in

u> Mhnred the example of their brethren in

a, and raised the standard of revolt; they were

«i overpowered by the natives, and driven out of

■ -and, but their cause was espoused by toe Ro-

t, »bo uiidertook to restore them, and threatened

Carthaginians with war if they attempted the

-if ion of their own dominion in Sardinia. The  
r wen exhausted with the long and fierce con-

nth their mercenary troops in Africa, and were

- ecodition to resist. They consequently sub-  
■i to the demands of the Romans, and agreed

natty to abandon all claims to Sardinia, u. c.

238. (Pol. i. 79, 88; Appian, Pun. 5; Liv. xxi.

1.) But the Carthaginians could cede no more

than they possessed, and the whole island was at

this time in the hands of the natives. Its subjuga­

tion was not effected by the Romans till alter several

campaigns; and though in B.C. 235 T. Manliua

Torquatus triumphed over the Sardinians, and is

said to hare reduced the whole island to subjection

(Eutrop. iii. 3; Oros. ir. 12; Veil. Pat. ii. 38;

Fast. CapU.), it is clear that this statement must

be understood with considerable limitation, as the

consuls of the two succeeding years, Sp. Carvilius

and Pomponins Matho, were still able to earn the

distinction of a triumph "de Sardis." (Fail. CapU.")

The conquest of the island was now considered

complete; and it was reduced to the condition of a

province, to which a praetor was annually sent.

Corsica was soon after annexed to bis jurisdiction.

But it is certain that the wilder mountain tribes of

the interior, though they may have tendered a

nominal submission, were not really subdued, and

continued long after to molest the settled parts of

the island by their depredations, as well as to find

employment for the arms of the praetor by occa­

sional outbreaks of a more serious description.

During the Second Panic War, Sardinia was natu­

rally watched with considerable jealousy, lest the

Carthaginians should attempt to regain possession

of what they had so long held. Bat the war which

broke out there ia B. c. 215, under a native chief

named Hampsicora, is attributed by the Roman

writers themselves in great measure to the severity

of taxation and the exactions of their governors.

T. Manliua Torquatus, the same who as consul

had already triumphed over the Sardinians, was ap­

pointed to quell this insurrection. He defeated the

Sardinians under Hiostua, the sou of Hampsicora,

in the neighbourhood of Cornus; but the arrival of

a Carthaginian force under Hasdrubal gave fresh

spirit to the insurgents, and the combined armies

advanced to the very gates of Caralis. Here, how­

ever, they were met by Torquatus in a pitched

battle and totally defeated. Hasdrubal was taken

prisoner, Hiostus slain in the battle, and Hampsi­

cora in despair put an end to his own life. The

remains of the defeated army took refuge in the

fortress of Comus; but this was soon reduced by

Manliua, and the other towns of Sardinia one after

the other made their submission. (Liv. xxiiL 32,

40, 41.)

From this time we hear no more of any general wan

in Sardinia; and the large supplies of corn which the

island began to furnish to Rome and to the armies in

Italy (Liv. xxr. 22. xxx. 24) sufficiently prove that a

considerable part of it at least was in the peaceable

possession of the Ruman authorities. The mountain

tribes were, however, still unsubdued ; and in b. c.

181 the Iliensea and Balari broke out into a fresh

insurrection, which assumed so formidable a cha­

racter that the consul Tib. Sempronius Gracchus

was expressly sent to Sardinia to carry on the war.

He defeated the insurgents with heavy loss, and fol­

lowed up his victory with such vigour that he put

to the sword or took prisoners not less than 80,( 00

persons. (Liv. xl. 19, 34, xli. 6, 12, 17, 28.) The

number of captives brought to Rome on this occasion

was so great that it is said to have given rise to the

proverb of "Sardi venales" for anything that was

cheap and worthless. (Vict. fir. 10. 65.) Another

serious outbreak occurred in Sardinia aa late as b. c.

114, to repress which M. Caeciliua Metellua was »

