10 JERUSALEM. IERXE.

porUnt than these scant/ notices, and, indeed, more

important than nil the notices of Ireland pot together,

is the text of Ptolemy. In this author the details

fur Ireland ('Iouayta) are fuller, rather than scantier,

than those for Great Britain. Yet, as Ireland was

never reduced, or even explored bj the Romans, his

authorities must have been other than Latin. Along

with this fact must be taken another, viz., that of the

earliest notice of IreUnd('Uovi)) bciog full as early as

the earliest of Britain; earlier, if we attribute the

Argonantic poem to Onomacritus; earlier, too, if we

suppose that Hanno was the authority of Avienos.

If not Roman, the authorities for Ierne must bare

been Greek, or Phoenician, — Greek from MartciJks,

1'hoenician from either the mother-country or Car­

tilage. The probabilities are in favour of the Utter.

On the other hand, early as we may make the first

voyage from Carthage (via Spain) to Ireland, we

find no traces of any permanent occupancy, or of any

intern future of blood. The name Jerne was native;

though it need not necessarily liave been taken from

the Italians themselves. It may been Iberian

(Spanish) as well. Some of the names in l'tolemv

— a large proportion — are still current, e.g. Li-

bum*. Semis, Oboe*, Birgus, Eblana, Nagnatae, &c,

es Liffy, Shannon, A voca, Barrow, Dublin, Con-

naught, &c. Ptolemy gives us chiefly the names of

the Irish rivers and promontories, which, although

along a sea-board so deeply indented as that of Ire­

land not always susceptible of accurate identification,

are atill remarkably true in the general outline.

What is of more importance, inasmuch as it shows

that his authorities liad gone inland, is the fact of

seven towns being mentioned : — " The inland towns

are these, Rhigia, Rhaeba, Lavenis, Macolicum,

Dunum, another Rhigia, Tumis."

The populations are the Vennicnii and Rhobogdii,

in L'Uter; the Nagnatae, in Connaught; the Knlini

and Erpeditani, between the Nagnatae and Ven­

nicnii; the Utemi and Vodiae, in if tauter; and the

Auteri, Gangani, the Vcliborae (or Ellebri), between

the Uterni and Nagnatae. This leaves I^einttrr for

the Brigantes, Coriondi, Menapii, Cauci, Blanii,

Voluntii. and Damii, the latter of whom may liave

been in UUitr. Besides the inland towns, there was

a Menapia (veAis) and an Eblana (wJa.ii) on the

coast.

Tacitus merely states that Agricola meditated the

conquest of Ireland, and tliat the Irish were not very

different from the Britons: — "Ingcnia,cultusque ho-

lniriuin haud multum a Britannia uillerunL" (Agric.

24.)

It is remarkable that on the eastern coast one

British and two German names occur,— Brigantes,

Cauci, and Menapii. It is more remarkable tliat

two of these names are man or less associated on

the continent. The Chauci lie north of the Me­

napii in Germany, though not directly. The inference

from this is by no means easy. Accident is the last

resource to the ethnographical philologist; so that

more than one writer has assumed a colonisation.

Such a fact is by no means improbable. It is not

much more difficult for Germans to have been in

Wexford in the second century than it was for

Northmen to have been so in tho eighth, ninth, and

tenth. On the other hand, the root m-n-p seems to

have been Celtic, and to have been a common, rather

than a proper, name; since Pliny gives us the inland

hhmapin == A ngltta. No opinion is given u to the

nature of these coincidences.

Of none of the Irish tribes mentioned bj Ilolcmy

do we meet any separate substantive notice, a notice

of their playing any part in history, or a notice of

their having come in contact with any other nation.

They appear only as details in the list of tho popu­

lations of Ierne. Neither do the lerni appear col­

lectively in history. They lay beyond the pale of

the classical (Roman or Greek) nations, just as did

the tribes of Northern Germany and Scandinavia;

and we know them only in their geography, not in

their history.

But they may have been tribes nnmentioned by

Ptolemy, which do appear in history; or the names

of Ptolemy may have been changed. Ptolemy

says nothing about any Scott; but Claudian does.

He also connects them with Ireland: —

'• maduerunt Ssxone fuso

Orcades; incaluil Pictorum sanguine Thule

Scotorum cumnlos flevit glacialia /erne."

(Dt TerL Contnl. Uonorii, 72—74.)

Again: —

"totuin quum Scotus lernen

Movit."

(In Prim. Consul Stilich. ii. 252.)

The extent to which the current opinions as to the

early history of the Gaels of Scotland confirm the

ideas suggested by the text of Claudian is considered

under Scoti. At present it may be said that Scoti

may easily have been either a generic name for some

of the tribes mentioned in detail by Ptolemy, or else

a British instead of a Gaelic -name. At any rate, the

Scoti may easily have been, in the time of Ptolemy,

an Irish population.

Two other names suggest a similar question, —

Belgae, and Attacotti. The claim of the latter to

liave been Irish is better than that of the former.

The Attacotti occur in mora than one Latin writer;

the Belgae (Fir-bolgs) in the Irish annals only.

[See Attacotti, and Bkixiae of Britannia.]

The ethnology of the ancient Ierne is ascertained

by that of modern Ireland. The present population

belongs to the Gaelic branch of the Celtic stock; a

population which cannot be shown to hare been

introduced within the historical period, whiUt the

stock of the time of Ptolemy cannot be shown to

have been ejected. Hence, the inference tliat the

population of Ierne consisted of the ancestors of the

present Irish, is eminently reasonable, — so reason­

able that no objections lie against it. That English

and Scandinavian elements have been introduced

sinee, is well known. That Spanish (Iberic) and

Phoenician elements may have oeen introduced in the

ante-historical period, is likely; the extent to which

it took place being doubtful. The most cautious

investigators of Irish archaeology have hesitated to

pronounce any existing remains either Phoenician or

Iberian. Neither an there any remains referable to

pagan Rome. [R. G. L.]

IEKNUS, in Ireland, mentioned by Ptolemy (ii.

2. § 4) as the most southern of two rivers (the

Durus being the other) lying between the Sen us

(A'Aannon) and the Southern Promontory (Stizrn

Html) = cither the Kenmart or the Ban try Bay

River. [R. G. L-]

JERUSALEM, the ancient capital of Palaealine,

and the seat of the Hebrew kingdom.

I. Names.

The name by which this ancient capital is m<vt

commonly known was not its original appellation,

but apparently compounded of two earlier i

