512 PAESTUM. PAEONES.

(HaiovitL, Time. ii. 99; Polyb. v. 97, xxiv. 8;

Strab. rii. pp. 313, 318, 329, 331; Ptol. iii. 13.

§ 2S; Liv. xxxiii. 19, xxxviii. 17, xxxix. 54, xl. 3,

xlv. 20; Plin. iv. 17, vi. 39) was curtailed of its

dimensions, on every side, though the name still

continued to be applied in a general sense to the

great belt of interior country winch covered Upper

and Lower Macedonia to the N. and NE., and a

portion of which was a monarchy nominally inde­

pendent of Macedonia until fifty years after the

death of Alexander the Great. The banks of the

"wide-flowing Ax ins " seem to have been thecentre

of the Paeonian power from the time when Pyraechines

and Asteropaeus led the Paeonians to the assistance of

Priam (Horn. //. cc), down to the latest existence of

the monarchy. They appear neither as Macedo­

nians, Thraeians, or Illyrians, but professed to be

descended from the Teucri of Troy. When Mega-

bazus crossed the river Strymon, lie conquered the

Paeonians,of whom two tribes, called the Siropaeones

and Paeoplae, were deported into Asia by express

order of Dareius, whose fancy had been struck at

Sard is by seeing a beautiful and shapely Paeonian

woman carrying a vessel on her head, leading a

horse to water, and spinning flax, all at the same

time. (Herod, v. 12—16.) These two tribes were

the Paeonians of the lower districts, and their

country was afterwards taken possession of by the

Thrae.ians. When the Temenidae had acquired

Emathia, Almopia, Crestonia, and Mygdoma, the

kings of Paeonia still continued to rule over the

country beyond the straits of the Axius, until Philip,

son of Amyntas, twice reduced them to terms, when

weakened by the recent death of their king Agis; and

they were at length subdued by Alexander (Diodor.

xix. 2. 4, 22, xvii. 8); alter which they were pro­

bably submissive to the Macedonian sovereigns. An

inscribed marble which has been discovered in the

acropolis of Athens records an interchange of good

offices between the Athenians and Audoleon, king of

Paeonia, in the archon.-dnp of Diotimus, B.C.354, or a

few years after the accession of Philip and Audoleon

to their respective thrones. The coins of Audoleon,

who reigned at that time, and adopted, after the

the deatli of Alexander, the common types of that

prince and his successors, — the head of Alexander ,

in the character of young Heracles, and on the ob- j

verse the figure of Zeus Aetopborus,— prove the ci­

vilisation of Paeonia under its kings. Afterwards

kings of Paeonia are not heard of, so that their im­

portance must have been only transitory; but it is

certain that during the troublous times of Macedonia,

that is, in the reign of Cassauder, the principality of

the Paeonians existed, and afterwards disappeared.

At the Roman conquest the Paeonians on the \V". of

the Axius were included in Macedonia Secunda.

Paeonia extended to the Dentheletae and Maedi of

Thrace, and to the Dardani, Penestae, and Dassaretii

of Illyria, comprehending the various tribes who

occupied the upper valleys of the Erigon, Axius.

Strymon and Augitas as far S. as the fertile plain

of Siiis. Its principal tribes to the E. were the

Odomanti, Ae^traei, and Agrianes, parts of whose

country wen- known by the names of Parstrymoiiia

and Paroreia, the former containing probably the

valleys of the Upper Strymon, and of its great tribu­

tary the river of Strumitza, the latter the adjacent

mountains. On the W. frontier of Paeonia its sub­

divisions burderiug on the Penestae and Dassaretii

wore Deuriopus and Pelagonia, which with Lyn-

cestis comprehended the entire country watered by

the Erigon and its branches. (Leake, .Vertken

Greece, vol. iii. pp. 212, 306, 462. 470.) [E.B.J.]

PAEO'XIA. [Paeoxes.]

PAEO'NIDAE. [Attica, p. 326, t.]

PAEOPLAE. [Paeohes.]

PAESIC1. [AsTt REs, p. 249.1

PAESTANUS SIM'S. [Paestvm.]

PAESTUM (ndiarov, Ptol.; nattrros, Soiki

Eth. Uata-TaviU, Paes'anus: Kuins at /V*nl*(iN

of Lucania, on the Tyrrhenian sea, about i nuT»S

of the mouth of the Silarus. It was orirun.*'

Greek coiony, named Posii»onia (n<xrnW.8: £ii

riyotifiwi'taTT}1;), and was founded by a col fnB

Sybaris, on the opposite coast of Lucania. (Sti? 1

p. 251: Seynm. Ch. 245; Scyl. p. 3. § 11) Th

date of its foundation is uncertain, but it miy p"

bably be referred to the period of the chief pn»}*ri

of Sybaris, when that city ruled over the 1

Lucania, from one sea to the other, or from

510 b.c [Sybaris.] It may be observed,

that Snlinus calls Posidonia a I>oric col ny: ■

though his authority is worth little in itfrit*.C

confirmed by the occurrence of Doric forms 121

of the city: hence it seems probable that tfcf lM

settlers from Troezen, who formed part of ti* •

ginal colony of Sybaris, but were snb^equra'-rt t

pclled by the Achaeans(Arist. PoL v. 3). rmj b

mainly contributed to the establi>ln:e:it *: ■ s

colony. According to Strabo it was onginalW i«ufl

close to the sea, but was subsequently removd I

ther inland (Strab. I.e.); the change, bowser, 1

not considerable, as the still existing nuns d'

ancient city are little more than half a mile i

the coast.

We know scarcely anything of the early h-.iff!

Posidonia. It is incidentally mentioned by Utr^t

(i. 107) in a manner that proves it to havr I

I already in existence, and apparently as a

, rable town, at the period of the foundatk* <*

neighbouring Velia, about b.c. 540. But this ■

only notice of Posidonia until after the fail 4

parent city of Sybaris, B.C. 510. It ha» beea 1

posed by some modern writers that it re«T*t<

great accession to i:s population at that pnvid:

Herodotus, who notices the Sybarites as, setilai

that occasion at Latis and Scidrus, does m4 ij

to Posidonia, (Her*l. vi. 21.) There are. nJ

few among the cities of Magna GraeciA

hear less in history; and the only evidence d

flourishing condition and prosperity of Ptaod-ai

to l>e found in the numbers of its coins aoj a

splendid architectural remains, so well kuevo ■

temples of Paestum. From its northerly p>fia

must have been one of the first cities thai *ai

from the advancing power of the Lucajiian-.

was certainly one of the first Greek cotoose*

fell into the hands of that people. (Strab. v_ p.:

The date of this event is very uncertain; but u t

bable that it must have taken place before iw<5

when the city of Laiis was besieged by tb* L.---*,

and had apparently Ijeeome the bulwark: uf 1

Graecia on that side. [Mauna Grakcia.J

from a curious passage of Aristoaenus (<ia. J

xiv. p. 6't2) that the Greek inhabitant* were a

polled, but compelled to submit to the atjrjvi

the Lucaniaus. and receive a bar ban .\3 ■

their walls. They still retained many of

toms, and for ages afterwanbt continued to a

at a certain festival every year witii fcrae

purpose of bewailing their captivity, aavi

the traditions of their prosperity. It 1

