SYBACUSAE. 1U59 SYRACU&AE.

-•]>:ibts or forts, each of them occupied with a  
troug garrison, at intervals along the bloping pla-

ao of Epipolae, while a fort had been also erected

t tbe important post of Karyalus, at the extreme

of the heights. (Thuc. vii. 43.) So strong

was their position that Demosthenes despaired

f carrying it bj day, and resolved upon a night

Sack, in which he buccccded in carrying the fort

: Euryalus, but was foiled in his attempt upon the

b-r uatworks, and repulsed with heavy loss.

J-»S.)

V;\» fail ore of this attack was considered by De-

*:iien*3 himself as decisive, and he advised the ira-  
ftlute abandonment of the siege. But the contrary

Ivice of Nicias prevailed; and even when increasing

-'cr.ru in the Athenian camp had induced him  
*< to consent to a retreat, his superstitious fears,  
"if^i by u eclipse of the moon, again caused them

ftKlpone their departure. The consequences were

u!. The Syracusans now became rather the be-

1'iri than the besieged, attacked the Athenian

»t in the Great Harbour, and cut off and de-

'jni the wh-'le of their right wing under Eury-

i-imi, in the bay of Dascon. Elated with tliis

they sought nothing less than the capture

tijfl whole armament, and began to block up the

u:h of the Great Harbour, from Ortygia across to

fr.mvrium, by mooring vessels across it. The

->M*ns were now compelled to abandon all their  
1 foots and lines on the heights, and draw together

f;.- trnjH as close to the naval cainp as possible;

i!* they made a final effort to break through the

■Tier at the entrance of the harbour. But this

t-.iipt proved unsuccessful, and led to a complete

of the Athenian fleet. There was now no

■me but to retreat. The army under Nicias and

:. Athene* broke up from its camp, and at first

rctrd their course along the valley of the Anapus,

. ti*7 came to a narrow puss, commanded by a

supttoos ridge called the Acraean ltock ('Anpaiov

rat, Thuc. vii. 78), which had been occupied in

by tbe Syracusans. Failing in forcing this

:K ibe Athenians changed their line of retreat,

1 f.>Ui»we*i the road to Helorus, but after forcing

»aa'-e*sion, though not without heavy loss, the

targe of tbe two rivers Cacyparis and Erineus,

1 rrai hing the banks of the Asinarus, the last

ur irs of the Athenian army were compelled to

<i"wn their anna. The whole number of pri­

ori wag said to amount to 7000. A trophy was

r.n{ by the Syracusans on the bank of the Asi-

*nd a festival culled the Asinaria instituted  
nxnnmnonite their victory. (Thuc. vii. 78—87;

■Lxai. IS, 19.)

1 Irf failure of the Athenian expedition against

utiar «eemed likely to secure to that city the

pnttKuble superiority among the Greek colonies

Ncilr. But a new and formidable power now

wand—the Carthaginians, who were invited by

Srftatans to supjiort them against the Sclinnn-

!t, bat who, not content with the destruction of

bits and iiimera (b. c 410), and with that of

- _'Ttum (». r. 406), pushed forward their  
t'.-ts with a view of making themselves mas-

i <4 the whole Liland. Dionysius, then a young

i. fouk advantage of the alarm and excitement

Md by tliis danger to raise himself to des-

t pTwrr at Syracuse (b. c. 405), and he soon

t concluded a peace with the Carthaginians,

» career of victory had been checked by a pesti-

*. The history of the reign of Dionysius at

Syracuse, which continued for a period of 38 years

(b. c. 405—387), cannot be here related: it is briefly

given in the Jiiogr. Diet., art. Dionysius, and very

fully in Grote's history of Greece, vols. x. and xi.;

but its influence and effects upon the city itself must

be here noticed. From a very early period ho turned

his attention to the strengthening and fortification of

the city, and constructed great works, partly with a

view to the defence of the city against external inva­

sion, partly for the security of his own power. One

of his first operations was to convert the island of

Ortygia into a strong fortress, by surrounding it with

a lofty wall, fortified with numerous towers, especially

on the side where it adjoined the land, where he

raised a strongly fortified front, called the Penta-

pyla; while, for still further security, he constructed

an interior fort or citadel within the island, which

became the acropolis of Syracuse, and at the same

time the residence of Dionysius and his successors

in the despotism. Adjoining this he constructed

within the lesser port, or Portus Lacceius, docks for

his ships of war on a large scale, so as to be capable

of receiving CO triremes: while they were enclosed

witli a wall, and accessible only by a narrow en­

trance. But not content with this, he a few years

afterwards added docks for 160 more ships, within

the Great Port, in the recess or bight of it which

approaches most nearly to the Portus Lacceius, and

opened a channel of communication between the two.

At the same time he adorned the part of the city

immediately outside the island with porticoes and

public buildings for the convenience of the citizens.

(Diod. xiv. 7.) But his greatest work of all was

the line of walls with which he fortified the heights

of Epipolae. The events of the Athenian siege had

sufficiently proved the vital importance of these to

the safety of the city; and hence before Dionysius

engaged in his great war with Carthage he deter­

mined to secure their possession by a line of perma­

nent fortifications. The walls erected for this pur­

pose along the northern edge of the cliffs of Epipolae

(extending from near Sta Panagia to the hill of

Euryalus, or Mongibellisi) were 30 stadia in length,

and are said to have been erected by the labour of

the whole body of the citizens in the short spate of

20 days. (Diod. xiv. 18.) It is remarkable that

we hear nothing of the construction of a similar

wall along the southern edge of the plateau of Epi­

polae ; though the table-land is at least as accessible on

this side as on the other; and a considerable suburb

called Neapolis had already grown up on this side

(Diod. xiv. 9), outside of the wall of Achradina,

and extending over a considerable jKirt of the slope,

which descends from the Temenitis towards the

marshy plain of the Anapus. But whatever may

have been the cause, it seems certain that Syracuse

continued till a later period to be but imperfectly

fortified on this side.

The importance of the additional defences erected

by Dionysius was sufficiently shown in tho course

of the war with Carthage which began in B. c.

397. In that war Dionysius at first carried his

arms successfully to the western extremity of Sicily,

but fortune soon turned against him, and he was

compelled in his turn to shut himself up within

the walls of Syracuse, and trust to the strength of

his fortifications. The Carthaginian general Hi-

milco entered the Great Port with his fleet, and

established his head-quarters at the Olympieum,

while he not only ravaged the country outside the

walls, but made himself master of one of the suburbs,

3 Y 2

