TIBURES. I i»nr, TICINTM.

e pavement are in complete preservation. Under

rack on the right is an ancient artificial care, called

the local antiquaries // Tempio del Mondo, but

hied was probably either a sepulchre, or one of

mr cares consecrated by the ancients to the rustic

iHsry deities. This mad joins the Via Constan-

i before mentioned, leading up to the ruins of the

-rilled villa of Maecenas.

Outside the Porta S. Crocs is a district called

irciamo, a corruption of the name of Cassianum

tuch it bore in the 10th century, derived from a

tenificent rilla of the gens Cxssia which was si-

«ted in it. In the time of Zappi, in the 16th

nrory, a great part of this building was extant.

^ tplmdour of this residence is attested by the

iwim beautiful statues found there, many of

lieh were acquired by Pope Pius VI. and now

on the Vatican. In the neighbourhood of Tibur

» •!*> the remains of several aqueducts, as the

w Vettta, the Aqua Marcia, and the Aqua Claudia.

m ruins of the sumptuous villa of Hadrian He

nt 'i mi lea S. of the town. A description of it

mid be too long for this place, and it will suffice

ay that, in a circuit of about 8 miles, it embraced,

tides the imperial palace and a barracks for the

anl. a Lyceum, an Academy, a fac-simile of the

ecOe at Athens and of the Sera pen in at Alexan-

*, s rale of Tempe, a Tartarus, a tract called the  
man Fields, a stream called the Kuripus, numerous

Ac. (Cf. N'lbby, Viaggio Antitptario, vol. i.;

w-'i/i deila Carta de' IHntorni di Roma, v. viiL;

T(rp**Jrnphy of Rome and its vicinity, od.

isbury; Ant. del Re\ Antichita Tibvrtine; Ca­

ll* and F. del Kc. Delia Villa e def Monumenti

Rati dtlla Citta e del Territorio di Tivoli; Santo

4s, Storia di Tivoli; Keller, De vetert cum novo

comparalo : cuncerninc the villa of Hadrian,

"*> I.igorio, Pumta della Villa Tiburtina; Fea,

Winrhlmann. ii. p. 379.) [T. H. D.]

IlHURESor TIBIIHI (T«to£pm> in gen., Ptol.

6. § 37), a branch of the Astures in Hispania

TTaocmensia, whose principal town was Netueto-

rs. [T. H. 1).]

TICHIS (Tech), a river of Gallia Narbonensis,

«d by jlela (ii. 5) in the "Ora Sardonum"

*KtM>si»]. The Tichis is the Tecum of Pliny

4). The Tet and the Tech, two small rivers,

« the territory of Roussillon from west to east

m Tichis is named llliberis or Illeris by other

iters. [Iixibf.ria.] [G. L.]

VICHIUM. [Teiciucm.]

TICRJUtvSA (T«iX"»iwffo), i« mentioned twice

Tbacydidea (viii. 26, 28) as a fortified place

(**r;» in the territory of Miletus. Stephanus B.

*** of it under the name of T«iX'^*ff(ra» Hn^  
fceiaeus knew it under the name of Tttxiovs (viii.!

331.) It seems to have been situatM on the

TA coast of the bav of Iassus. [I.. >;

T1CUOS or TEICHOS. [Dtmk.] |

IinSTM (TUiswr: Eth. Ticinensis: Paria), a

* of Gallia Transpadana, situated on the river  
"-aft, from which it derived its name, about 5

above the junction of that stream with the'

-m. According to Pliny it was founded by the  
a tribes of the Lnevi and Marici, at the period of

Gaulish immigrations into this pnrt of Italy,

an. ui. 17. s. 21.) Bat it is remarkab'e that no

tt*o ii found of any town on the site during

'>~ati.>n* of P. Scipio against Hannibal in n, c-

"UMQch ha must hare crossed the Ticinus in

■ itntnediate npighbourhoui of the spot where the!

city afterwards stood. It is probable, indeed, that

in this, as in many other cases, the rise of a town

upon the spot was mainly owing to the existence of

a convenient passage across the river. There seems

no reason to doubt that under the Itoman eovern-

ment Ticinum had grown up into a considerable

municipal town before the close of the Republic,

though its name is not noticed in history. But

it is mentioned by all the geographers, and repeat­

edly figures in history during the Roman Empire.

It is included by Ptolemy among the cities of the

lnsubres, and would naturally be so reckoned, though

not of Insubrian origin, as soon as the river Ticinus

came to be considered as the bonndsrv of that

people. (Strab. v. p. 217; Plin. iii. 17. s.*21; Ptol.

iii. 1. § 36.)

The earliest mention of Ticinum in history is on

occasion of the death of Drusus, the father of Ger-

manicus, when we are told that Augustus advanced

as far as Ticinum to meet his funeral procrs.-inn.

(Tac. Ann. iii. 5.) Its name is also repeatedly

mentioned during the civil wars of a.i>. 69. when

its position on the great highroad that led from the

foot of the Alps to join the Acniilian Way at Pla-

centia, rendered it an important post. It was the

scene of a serious sedition among the troops of

Vitellius, while that emperor halted there. (Id. //i>f.

ii. 17, 27, 30, 68, 88.) At a later period it was at

Ticinum that the emperor Claudius (the second of

the name) was saluted with the imperial title, while

he was commanding the garrison of the city. (Vict.

Caes. 33, Epti. 34.) It was there also that Con-

stantius took leave of his nephew Julian, whom he

had just raised to the rank of Caesar. (Ainmian.

xv. 8. § 18.) From these frequent notices of Tici­

num it seems probable that it had already risen

under the Roman Empire into a flourishing muni­

cipal town, and derived importance from its position,

the great highroad which formed the continuation

of tbe Aemilian Way from Placentia to the foot of

the Alps passing through Ticinum, until the in­

creasing importance of Mediolamim, which became

the second capital of Italy, made it customary to

proceed through that city instead of following the

direct route, (/tin. AnL pp. 283, 340, 347.)

But though Ticinum was undoubtedly a con­

siderable town under the Roman Empire, it was not

till after the fall of that empire that it rose to the

position it subsequently ocenpied. In a. d. 452,

indeed, it had unstained a great calamity, having

been taken and devastated by Atttla (Jomand. Get

42); but the Gothic king Theodoric, being struck

with the importance of its position, not only raised it

from its ruins, but erected a royal palace there, and

strengthened the city with fresh fort ificst ions, until

it became one of the strongest fortresses in this p.irt

of Italy. It consequently bears an important jwrt

in the Gothic wars, that people having made it their

chief stronghold in the north of Italy (Procop. B. G.

ii. 12, 25, iii. 1, iv. 32, &c), in which the royal

treasures and other valuables were deposited. At

the time of the Lombard invasion, it ottered a pro­

longed resistance to the arms of Alboin, and was not

taken by that monarch till after a siege of more

than three years, a. p. 570 (P. IHac. Mitt. Lang. ii.

26, 27). It thenceforth lieeatne tbe residence of

the Lomlard kincs. and the capital of the kingdom

of Italy, and continued to hold this position till

A. D. 774, when De»iderius, the last of the Lombard

kings, was compelled to surrender the city to Charle­

magne, after a blockade of more than 15 months.

4 tt 3

