TARENTUM. TARENTUM.

lire of seven arches. This w«s already the case

>[Tibo'» time;, though no mention of it is found

lie time of the siege by Hannibal,

rbe general form and arrangement of the city

snot be better described than they are by Strabo.

i says: "While the whole of the rest of the

[ratine gulf is destitute of ports, there is here

rery large and {air port, closed at the entrance

s large bridge, and not less than 100 stadia

urrumrerence. [This is beneath the truth: the

sr* Piccolo is more than 16 miles (128 stadia)

arcoit] On the side towards the inner recess of

> p>tt it forms an isthmus with the exterior sea,

:lul the city lies upon a peninsula; and the neck

the i-thmus is so low that ships can easily be

ivn over the bind from one side to the other.

im whole city also lies low, but rises a little

rjrjj the citadel. The ancient wall comprises a

iuit of great extent; but now the greater part of

? rpace adjoining the isthmus is deserted, and

i t tual part still subsists which adjoins the mouth

the port, where also the Acropolis is situated.

* pftkui still remaining is such as to make up a  
w.erable city. It has a splendid Gymnasium,

>! * good-sixed Agora, in which stands the bronze

• *wl statue of Jupiter, the largest in existence

it to that at Khodes. In the interval between

■ A^ora and the mouth of the port is the Acropolis,

:> ti retains only a few, remnants of the splendid

Tju-ncnts with which it was adorned in ancient

m_ For the greater part were either destroyed

tbs Carthaginians when they took the city, or

nrd off as booty by the Romans, when they made

■nudres masters of it by assault. Among these

tiif colossal bronze statue of Hercules in the

pitol, a work of Lysippos, which was dedicated

t as an ortering by Fabius Maximus, who took

retry." (Strab. ri. p. 278.)

In the absence of all extant remains there is very

h to be added to the above description. lint

Ijbroa, in his detailed narrative of the capture of

city by Hannibal, supplies as with some local

m sad details. The principal gate on the E.

- .< the city, in the outer line of walls, seems to  
i > been that called the Temenid Gate (ai vukat

^ulai. PoL viii. 30); outside of which was a

ml or tomulos called the tomb of Hyacinthus,

mm worship had obviously been brought from

ma. A broad street called the Batheia, or Low

r-x led apparently from this gate towards the in-

•r of the city. This from its name may be con-

tared to have lain close to the port and the

lev's edge, while another broad street led from

an to the Agora, (/4. 31.) Another street

ej the Soteira (Itrrt'tpa) was apparently on the j

■ •ate aide of the city from the Batheia, and must

Twin have adjoined the outer sea. (/A. 36.)

:a*«uatery adjoining the Agora was the Museum

u*rilar\ a public building which seems to have |

red for festivals and public banquets, rather than

any purposes connected with its name. (Ib.

t>.) There is nothing to indicate the site of

theatre, alluded to by Polybius on the same

lawn, except that it was decidedly vithin the

'. which was not always the case. Strabo does

aoties it, bat it must have been a building of

>e ana, so as to be adapted for the general assent-

u ef the people, which were generally held in it,

mm the case also at Syracuse and in other Greek

-V This is particularly mentioned on several  
•aijoj; it was there that the Roman ambassadors

received the insult which finally led to the ruin of

the city. (Flor. i. 18. § 3; Val. Max. ii. 2. § 5;

Appian, Samait. 7.)

Livy inaccurately describes the citadel as standing

on lofty cliffs ("praealtis rupibus," xxv. 11): the

peninsula on which it stood rises indeed (as observed

by Strabo) a little above the rest of the city, and it

is composed of a rocky soil; but the whole site is

low, and no part of it rises to any considerable ele­

vation. The hills also that surround the Mare Pic­

colo are of trifling height, and slope very gradually

to its banks, as well as to the shore of the outer sea-

There can be no doubt that the port of Tarentum,

properly so called, was the inlet now called the Mar*

IHccolo or " Little Sea," but outside this the sea on

the S. side of the city forms a bay or roadstead,

which affords good shelter to shipping, being par­

tially sheltered from the SW. by the two small

islands of S. Pietro and S. Paolo, apparently the

samo which were known in ancient times as the

Chokrapes. (Thnc. vii. 33.)

Tarentum was celebrated in ancient times for the

salubrity of its climate and the fertility of its terri­

tory. Its advantages in both respects are extolled

by Horace in a well-known ode (Carat, ii. 6), who

says that its honey was equal to that of Hymettus,

and its olives to those of Venafrum. Varro also

praised its honey as the best in Italy (op. Macrob.

Sat. ii. 12). Its oil and wines enjoyed a nearly

equal reputation; the choicest qnslity of the latter

seems to have been that produced at Aulon (Hut.

(. c; Martial, xiii. 125; I'lin. xiv. 6. s. 8), a val­

ley in the neighbourhood, on the slope of a hill stm

called Monte Melone [Auix>m]. But the choicest

production of the neighbourhood of Tarentum was

its wool, which appears to havo enjoyed an acknow­

ledged supremacy over that of all parts of Italy.

(Plin. xxix. 2. s. 9; Martial, /. a; Vsrr. R. H. ii.

2. § 18; Strab. vi. p. 284; Colura. vii. 2. § 3.)

Nor was this owing solely to natural advantages, as

we learn that the Tarentines bestowed the greatest

care upon the preservation and improvement of

the breed of sheep. (Coluin. vii. 4.) Taren­

tum was noted likewise for its breed of hordes,

which supplied the famous Tarentine cavalry, which

was long noted among the Greeks. Their territory

abounded also in various kinds of fruits of the

choicest quality, especially pears, figs, and chestnuts,

and though not as fertile in corn as the western

shores of the Tarentine gulf, was nevertheless well

adapted to its cultivation. At the same time its

shores produced abundance of shell-fish of all de­

scriptions, which formed in ancient times a favourite

article of diet. Even at the present day the in­

habitants of Toronto subsist to a great extent upon

the shell-fish produced in the More Piccolo in a

profusion almost incredible. Its l'ectens or scallops

enjoyed a special reputation with the Roman epi­

cures. (Hor. Sat. ii. 4. 34.) But by far the moat

valuable production of this class was the Murex,

which furnished the celebrated purple dye. The

Tarentine purple was considered second only to the

Tyrian, and for a long time was the most valuable

known to the Romans. (Corn. Nep. op. Plin. ix.

39. s. 63.) Even in the time of Augmtus it con­

tinued to enjoy a high reputation. (Hor. £p. ii. I,

207.) So extensive were the manufactories of this

dye at Tarentum that considerable mounds are still

visible on the shore of the Mare Piccolo, composed

wholly of broken shells of this species. (Swinburne's

TrarcU, vol i. p. 239.)

