PELIGNI.

rf Orid, that they were of Sabine descent (Ovid,

fat. is. 9J.) The authority of the poet, himself a

satire tf the district, U strongly confirmed by the

■Mai pnosaib'lies of the case, there being little

daiat that all these upland valleys of the Central

Aaanoes vara peopled by the Sabines, who, radi-

atjay bom Amiternum as a centre, spread themselves

awards the S. and K. in the same manner as they

tatmied towards the valley of the Tiber on the W.

•ad SW. Utnce the Peligni were of kindred race

Utah mmr neighbours, the Vestini, Marrucini, and

Ibni, sad this circumstance, coupled with their

>tii(lmal proximity, sufficiently explains the close

enaa which we find subsisting in historical times

Astawen the four nations. It is probable, indeed,

Abb* fear tribes formed a kind of league or

ry among themselves (Liv. viii. 29), though

mast have been somewhat lax, as we find

nasally engaging in war or concluding

smelt, though more frequently all four would

1m same policy.

first mention of the Peligni in Roman history

at B. c 343, when we are told that the

who had been threatening war with Rome,

sat their arms against the Peligni (Liv. vii. 38);

law eat* do account of the causes or result of

^PaV. boon after we find the Peligni, as well as

aaghboore, the Marsi. on friendly terms with

^^naana, so that they afforded a free passage to

^Bhaai army which was proceeding through

BWaW into Campania (Liv. viii. 6); and even

rh boors the Vestini declared them-

of the Samnites, tbey seem to have

m the example. (Id. viii. 29.) In

ver, they joined the Mai si in their

lane, and share. 1 in their defeat by

41); bat a few yeHrs afterwards

were induced to sue for peace, and

~ apparently on favourable terms

Ini * » * •

PELIGNI. 5C7

Epit. lxxii; Oros. v. 18; Veil. Pat. ii. 16- Diod

T™ choic« »• Corfinium was probably

determined bv its itm il .» - <■„.. r »u»uiy

I period they

of Rome

I Daring

« aWetoa

r chief eii'

i, and'

Rome, and

their zeal in b. o. 295, by

army on its retreat from the

i,and cutting to pieces 1000

30.) After the subjection

the Peligni are seldom

it is certain that they

regularly their contingents to

"* notwithstanding their small

itin^uished position among

Pelignian cohorts being on

'withdistinction. (Diunys.

nn. viii. It. 6; ur, xxv.

is omitted by Polybius

forces of the Italian allies in

Mil this is probably by mere

Second Punic War they main-

fidelity to Rome, though their

ravaged by Hannibal; and

usual quota to the Koman

1 able in b. c. 205 to raise

ment of Scipiu, (Liv. xxii. 9,

Kt the outbreak of tlie Social

njunctiuii with their neigh-

the Marsi, were among the

«s against Rome; and the

, Corfinium, to be the capital

therefore the destined capital

proved successful, at once

the nations

i.

among t

B. C. i

„„ vuivo ui v ui innnin was probably

determined by its strength as a fortress, as well as

by its central position in regard to the northern con­

federates; at a later period of the war it was aban­

doned by the allies, who transferred their senate and

capital to Aesernia. (Diod. /. c) The name of the

Peligni is not often mentioned during the war,

though it is certain that they continued to take an

active part in it throughout, and it is probable that

they were almost uniformly associated with the

Marsi. But in b. c. 90 we are told that they sus­

tained a severe defeat by Ser. Sulpicius Gallia (Liv.

Eptt. Ixxiii.); and before the close of the following

year they were receive*, to submission, together with

the Marrucini and Vestini, by Cn. Pompeius Strabo,

b. c. 88. (Liv. Epit. lxxvi.) It is certain that the

Peligni, as well as their neighbours, were at this

time, or very soon after, admitted to the Roman

franchise, for the sake of which they had originally

engaged in the war: they were enrolled in the Str-

gian tribe, together with the Marsi and Sabines.

(Cic. in Vatin. 15; Schol. Bob. atl he ) Tlie

Peligni again figure in the history of the Civil War

between Caesar and Pompey, b. c. 49, when their

chief town, Corfinium, was occupied by Domittus

Ahenobarbus with twenty cohorts, which he had

raised for the most part among the Marsi and

Peligni, and with which he at first checked the ad­

vance of Caesar; but the rapid spread of disaffection

among his own troops quickly compelled him to

surrender. (Caes. £. C. i. 15—23.) Sulmo, which

had been also garrisoned by Domhius, yielded without

resistance to Caesar. (/&. 17.) The Peligni, in

common with the other mountain tribes, seem to

have retained to a considerable extent their national

character and feeling, long after tbey had become

merged in the condition of Roman citizens, and as

late as the civil war between Vespasian and Vitel-

lius (a. d. 69) they are mentioned as declaring

themselves, as a people, in favour of the former.

(Tac. Hist. iii. 59.) This is the last notice of them

which occurs in history; but they are described by

all the geographers as a distinct people, retaining

their separate nationality. (Strab. v. p. 241; Plin.

iii. 12. s. 17; Ptol. iii. 1. § 64.) For administrative

purposes they were included in the Fourth Region of

Augustus (Plin. /. c); and in the later division of

this part of Italy, their territory was comprised,

together with that of the Marsi, in the province

called Valeria. {Lib. Colon, p. 228). It now forms

a part of the province of Abnazo Ulteriore.

The position of the Peligni, surrounded on all

sides by the loftiest ranges of the Apennines, while

the valley of the Gizio itself is at a considerable

elevation above the sea, naturally rendered the climate

one of the coldest in Italy. Horace uses the ex­

pression " Peligna frigora," as one almost proverbial

for extreme cold; and Ovid, who was a native of

Sulmo, repeatedly alludes to the cold and wintry

climate of his native district, (Hor. Carm. iii. 19.

8; Ovid, Fast iv. 81, 685, TrisL iv. 9.) On the

other hand, it derived from the same cause the ad­

vantage of being watered by numerous and perennial

streams, fed by the snows of the neighbouring moun­

tains, where they are said to linger throughout the

summer. (Ovid, Amor. ii. 16, East. iv. 685.) The

broad valley of the Gizio was, however, sufficiently

fertile; it produced considerable quantities of corn,

and wine in abundance, though not of superior

quality, and a few sheltered spots would even admit

o o 4

