118S TIIRACIA.

THRACIA.

sued for peace, which was at length granted to bin

(n.c. 188) on condition of his abandoning all bit

dominions vv&,t of the Taurus (Liv. xxxviii. 36).

The Romans pave the Chersonesus and its depend­

encies to their ally Eumenes (ib. 39). As indica­

tive of tho internal condition of Thrace, even along

the great southern road, the account which Livy (16.

40, seq.) gives of the march of the consul Manlius'

army through the country on its return from Asia

Minor, is highly interesting. The army was loaded

with booty, conveyed in a long train of baggage-

waggons, which presented an irresistible temptation

to the predatory tribes through who«e territories its

route lay. They accordingly attacked the army

in a dWile, and were not beaten off until they had suc­

ceeded in tbeir object of sharing in the plunder of Asia,

The possession of the Chersonesus by Kumenes

soon led to disagreements with Philip, who was

charged by Kumenes (n.c. l$.j) with having seized

u\*>n Maroneia and Aenus, places which he coveted

for himself. (Liv. xxxix. 24, 27). The Romans

insisted upon the withdrawal of the Macedonian

garrisons (n.c. 184), and l'hilip, sorely against his

will, was obliged to obey. He wreaked his anger

opon the defenceless citizens of Maroneia, by con­

niving at, if not actually commanding, the massacre

of a great Dumber of them (ib, 33, 34). In the

course of the disputes about these cities, it was

stated (bat at the end of the war with Philip, the

Roman commissioner, Q. Fabius Labeo, had fixed

upon the king's road, which is described as nowhere

approaching the sea, as the S. boundary of Philip's

pOBteadOBl in Thrace; but that Philip had after­

wards formed a new road, considerably to the 8.,

anil had thus included the cities and lands of the

MaronitM in his territories (ib. 27).

In the same year, Philip undertook an expedition

into the interior of Thrace, where he was fettered

by no engagements with the Romans. He defeated

the Thracians in a battle, and took their leader

Anudocui prisoner. Before returning to Mace­

donia lie sent envoys to the barbarians on the

Danube to invite them to make an incursion into

Italy (ib. 35). Again in B.C. 183, Philip marched

against the Odrysae, Denthcletae and ttessi, took

Philippopolis, which its inhabitants had abandoned

at his approach, anil placed a garrison in it, which

the Odrysae, however, soon afterwards drove out

(ib. 53), In u.c. 182, Philip removed nearly all

the inhabitants of the coast of Macedonia into the

interior, and supplied their places by Thracians

and other barbarians, on whom he thought he could

more safely depend in the war with the Romans,

which he now saw was inevitable (Liv. eL 3). He

had done something of the same kind a few years

before (Id. xxxix. 24).

Philip's ascent of the Haemus, already referred to,

took place in u.c. 181: on the summit he erected

altars to Jupiter and the Sun. On his way back his

army plundered the Dentheletae; and in Maedica he

took a town called Petra. (Liv. xl. 21. seq.)

Philip died in b. c. 179, and his successor

Perseus continued the preparation! which his

father had made for renewing the war with Rome,

which did not begin, however, till B* c. 171. The

Romans had formed an alliance the year before with

a number of independent Thraeian tribes, who had

sent ambassadors to Rome for the purpose, and who

were likely to be formidable foes to Perseus. The

Romans took tare to send valuable presents to the

priucipal Thracians, their ambassadors having no

doubt impressed upon the scute the anas*W

compliance with this national etataL. (L* tu. iS ■

The advantage of this alliance mw «

Cotya, king of the Odrysae, in iQj «* Feast

and marched with bim to meet the Rot a

Thessaly, but with only 1000 horse isd 1000 H

a force which shows how greatly tlx p«f 41

Odrysiau monarchy had dec lined sine* thr tap •*

SitaJces (ib. 51). Cotya oenMadti ill tit Ib-

cians in Perseus's army in the first teppatf

with the Roman cavalry, which wis defneai [k

57, seq.). When Perseus retreated into Sweat

a report was brought that the Tbracic iQa i

Rome had invaded the dominions of C*ryt, nai

Perseus was therefore obliged to dismiss iar

protection (ib. 67), and he does not seem tehraa*

sonally taken any further part in the *n.

he probably sent part of his forces to sa« Peaa

(xliv. 42). His son Bitis fell into uVaeW

the Romans, after the battle of Prdis (ae

168), which put an end to the lUceioaa tif

dom. Cotys sent ambassadors to Boa* *

vour to ransom his son, and to excoae hbarffcf

having sided with Perseus. The senate

his offers of money, but liberated bis

a considerable sum to each of the Thraoai

sadors. The reason it assigned for tab

was the old friendship which had exai&i I*- I

Rome and Cotys and his ancestors. Tt*

were evidently unwilling to encase is

tlie Thraeian people at this time; and

to secure friends among them for thf ate***

peace of Macedonia, which, though not yet at

made a province, was completely in il***

They sent (d. c. 167) three cHntroasaeaea

duct Bitisand the other Thracians home;

same time, no doubt, to make ofcarriBaw"'

state of that country. (Liv. xlv. 42).

After the fall of Perseus, the senate inae* I

dominions into fuur districts (rfyiwaef), ^* ^*

which included the territory tetween tttNrrtai ]

and the Nest us, and all the Macedonias ,

east of the latter, except Aer.ua, Maruooa. aC 1

dera: Bisaltica and Sintice, west of ti»

also belonged to this district, the capital «f »■■

was Amphipolis. (lb. 29.) It is imporEaat *i

collect that the Thrace spoken of by l*t

historians subsequently to this tin* does a* i

the territories here specified, which tbeesaiW^

stituted an integral part of Macedonia

From the year b. c 143, when the

undertook the direct government of th"*

they were brought into contact with the «

barbarous nations on its frontiers, and w*t

tinually at war with one or another of tkei ri

some years, however, their chiel occopsnat***

the Scordisci, a people of Celtic on£tn ****

settled south of the Danube, and often

ting incursions into the more ciriused

south. They are sometimes catted Tfcrw»»

by Florae, iii. 4 ; cf. Amm. urn 4. \ *\ ■*

the less surprising when we ranewkr Uat

numbers of Celts had settled in SsalatB

and would soon be confounded under■

with the other occupants of the

tory of all this period, up to the tia» ■

is very obscure, owiug to the Joss of s» g

of Livy s work ; enough, however, sff**3 *

writers to show that Thrace was WftaBs*

to its native rulers, the Romans rare!; a

it except when provoked by the preiiWT 1

