102 JULIAX0P0LIS. JUKCAK.

Juliarnm, and from Juliacum through Tiberiacum

to Cologne. On this road also Juliacum is placed

18 leagues from Cologne. Juliacum is Julitrs, or

Julich, us the Germans call it, on the river Boer, on

the carriage road from Cologne to A ix-la- Ckapelle.

The first part of the word seems to be the Human

name Juli-, which is rendered more probable by

finding between Juliacum and Colonia a place Ti-

beriacum (Berchcim or lierg^tn). A cum is a

common ending of the names of towns in North

Gallia. [G. L.]

JULIAXO'POLIS ('lov\tayoi*o\n), a town in

Lydia which is not mentioned until the time of

llicrocles (p. 670), according to whom it was situ­

ated close to Maeonia, and must bo looked for in

the southern parts of Mount Tmolus, between Phila­

delphia andTrallcs. (Comp. I'lin. v. 29.) [L. S.]

JULIAS. [Bethsaida.]

JULIO'BONA ClovKioSora), a town in Gallia

Bclgica, is the city of the Caleti.or Calcitae as Pto­

lemy writes the name (ii. 8. § 5), who occupied the

Payt de Cnux. [Cai.eti.] The place is LUlebone,

on the little river Bolkec, near the north bank of the

Seine, between Havre and Caudebec, in the present

de]iartment of Seine /n/crieute. The Itins. show

several roads from Juliobona; one to Ilotomagus

( Rouen), through Breviodurum; and another through

Breviodurum to Noviomagus (Liiietu), on the south

side of the Seine. The road from Juliobona to the

west terminated at Carocotinnm. [Carocxitinum.]

The place has the name Juliabuna in the Latin

middle ape writings. It was a favourite residence

of the dukes of Nonnandie, and William, named the

Conqueror, had a castle here, where he often resided.

The name Juliobona is one of many examples of

a word formed hy a Koman prefix (Julio) and a

Celtic termination (Bona), like Augustobona, Julio-

magus. The word Divona or Itibona [Divona] has

the same termination. It appears from a middle age

Latin writer cited by D'Anvillc (Notice, <)'•<?., Julio­

bona), that the place was then called Illebona, from

which tho modern name Lillebonne has come by

prefixing the article; as the river Oltis in the south

of France has become LOU, ami Lot.

The name Juliubona, the traces of the old roads,

and the remains discovered on the site of Lilltbonne

prove it to have been a Human town. A Koman

theatre, tombs, medals, and antiquities, have been

discovered. [G. L.]

JULIOBRTGA C\ov\i6Gptya), the chief city of

the Cantabri, in Hispaaia Tarraconensis, belonging

to the conventus of Clunia, stood near the sources of

the Euro, on the eminence of Hetortillo, S. of liey-

no»n. Five stones still mark the bounds which

divided its territory from that of Legio IV. It had

its port, named Port us Vicloriae Juliobrigensium,

at Santimmt. (I'lin. ill 3. s. 4, iv. 20. s. 3-1; Ptol.

ii. 6. § 51; Inscr. an. Gruter, p 354; Morales,

Antig. p. 68; ¥lorm,Etp.S. vol. vi. p.417; Cantnbr.

p. C4; Ukert, vol. ii. pt. 1. p. 443.) [P. S.]

JULIOMAGUS (lov\i6nayai), a town of the

Andecavi, in Gallia Lugdnnensis, and their capital, j

(Ptol. ii. 8. § 8.) It is named Juliumagus in the'

Table, and marked as a capital. It is now Angeri. j

[Andecavi.] [G.1..]

JULIO'POLIS. [GoiumiM and Tabsi's.]

JULIO'POLIS AEGYPTI. Pliny (vi. 23. «. 26)

Alone among ancient geographers mentions this place

among the towns of Lower Argypt From t he silence

of his predecessors, and from the name itself, we

may reasonably infer ks recent origin. According

to Pliny, Juliopolis stood about 20 miles distant

from Alexandria, upon the banks of the canal which

connected that city with the Canopic arm of the

Nile. Some geographers suppose Juliopolis to have

been no other than Nicnpolis, or the City of Victory,

founded by Augustus Caesar in B. c. 29, partly to

commemorate his reduction of Aegypt to a Koman

province, and partly to punish the Alexandrians for

their adherence to Cleopatra and M. Antonio*.

Mannert, on the contrary (x. i. p. 626), beheies

Juliopolis to have been merely that suburb of Alrx-

andreia which Strabo (xvii. p. 795) calls Elrusis.

At this place the Nile-boats, proceeding up the river,

took in cargoes and passengers. [\V. B. D.J

lU'LIS. [Ckos.]

JU'LIUM CA'RNICUM ('IoiiA.o* Kd>r.«or,Ptol:

Zuglio), a town of the Carni, situated at the foot of

the Julian Alps, which, from its name, would seem

to have been a Koman colony founded either by

Julius Caesar, or in his honour by Augustus. If

Paulus Diaconus is correct in ascribing the foun­

dation of Forum Julii to the dictator himself (P.

Diac. But. Lang. ii. 14), there is little doubt that

Julium Carnicum dates from the same period: bat

we have no account of its foundation. Ptolemy in

one place distinctly describes it as in Xoricum

(viii. 7. $ 4), in another more correctly as situated

on the frontiers of Noricnra and Italy (jirra^u t^i

'IraAJat fral NwoikoO, ii. 13. § 4). But Pliny ex­

pressly includes it in the territory of the Carni and

the tenth region of Italy (" Julienses Camorum," iii.

19. s. 23), and its position on the S. side of the Alps

clearly entitles it to be considered in Italy. Its

position is correctly indicated by the Itinerary of

Antoninus (p. 219), which places it CO M. P., front

Aqiiileia, on the road leading nearly due N. from

that city over the Julian Alps. The first stage on

this road, " Ad Tricesimum," still retains the name

of Trigesimo, and the sito of Julium Carnicum is

marked by the village of Zuglio (where some Kotnaa

remains have been discovered), in a side valley open­

ing into that of the Tagliamento, about 4 miles abor*

Tulmezzo. The pass from thence over the M<mU

di Sta. Croce into the valley of the Gail, now prac­

ticable only for mules, follows the line of the ancient

Koman road, given in the Itinerary, and therefore

probably a frequented pass under the Humana

[Alprs, p. 110, No. 7J: but the inscription on

the faith of which the construction of this road has

been ascribed to Julius Caesar is a palpable furgrrv.

(Clover. Ital. p. 200.) [R R B]

JUNCAKIA, JUNCAKIUS CAMPUS. [I»-

DIOETBS.]

JUNOXIA INSULA. [Fortlsatab Lw.]

JURA. [Hr.i.vBTii j Gai.ua, p. 941.1

JUKCAb C'lvpKOt), mentioned by Herodotus

(iv. 22) as lying contiguous to the Thyuagrtae.

who lay beyond the Uudini, who lay beyond tij*

Sauromatae of the Palus Maeotis and Lower Tanais.

Their country was well-wooded. They were hunters,

and had horses. This poiuts to some portion of

the lower I'ralian range. They were probably

tribes of the I'grian stock, akin to the prnrnt

Morduint, T$herimi*s, Tthuvathe*, of which they

were the most southern portion. The reason for

for this lies in the probability of the name bring a

derivative from the root -ir- (as in limit* and

Carin-thm) = honier, or boundary, some form J

which gave the Slavonic population their equivalent

to ths Germanic name ifarconuiwti = J/orr4.

asm. [K. G. I_]

