074 SIBARIA.

the junction of the Hy das pes and Acesines, en­

countered by Alexander in his attempt to invade

India. They are described as a rude, warlike people,

armed only with clubs for defensive weapon*. The

Greeks noticed this use of the club, and that the

people were in the habit of branding the representa­

tion of a club on the backs of their cattle, and that

they were clothed in the skins of wild animal*.

From these facts they inferred that they must be

descendants of Hercules. There can be doubt that

they are the same race as are called Sobii in

Cattius (ix. 4. § 2). A tribe of similar character,

called Sittpnl or Siiipurft, still exists in that country,

who use the club, and wear the skins of goats tor

clothing. (Ritter, vii. p. 279, v. p. 467; Boblen,

Alte-ftulien. i. p. 208.) It is possible that they

have derived their name from the pod Siva. [V.]

SIBA'RIA, a town of the Vettones in Hiapania

Tarraeniieir-is, X. of Sahnantiea, and on the road

from Kinerita to Caesaraugusta. {/tin. A nt. p.

4-'t4.) Variously identified with Santiz, Fvente de

Sabwra, Penttu$end$, and Zamoewa, [T. H. I>.]

SIBDA (Ziefia: Kth. SnSoaeoy, ZiGStT-ns), a

place in Caria, and one of the six towns which were

pi veil by Alexander the (Ireat to Ada, a daughter of

king Hecatomnus of Halicamassus, and thus became

subject to Halicamassus. (Steph. B. s. r.; 1*1 in. v.

29.) Its exact site cannot be ascertained. [L. S.]

SIBERE'NA (2t€tp7]vri: Sta Stveri*a\ a town of

Brnttiam situated in the mountains about 15 miles

NW. ofCrotona. The name is mentioned only by

Stephanus of Byzantium (&. p.), who calls it an

Oenotrian city, but it is probable that it is the same

place which is now called Santa Stverimt. an sppel-

lation that is already noticed by Constantino Por-

phyrogenitos in the tenth century. It was at that

time apparently a place of importance, hut is now

much decayed. (Const, Porph. de Adin, Imp. ii. 1U;

Holsten. Obi. in Steph. Byt, s.»;.) [E. H. B.]

SI'liKIMS (2tt«jM>)< a river of Galatia, a tri-

butary of the Sangarius; it flowed in a south­

western direction, and joined the main river near the

little town of Syceon, not far from Juliopolis.

(Procop. dc A'-d. v. 4.) I'ntcopius al-o mentions

that this river frequently overflowed its banks, a fact

which is perhaps alluded to in the name of a station

called Ilyerou I'otamon, about 13 miles east of Julio-

jNtlis {It. Uterus, p 574); though it is possible also

that the name may be misspelt for Hieron Potamoo,

which is only another name for the Hieras of Pliny

(v. 43), and unquestionably identical with the Siberis

which now bears the name of Kirtnir. [I.. S.]

SIBUZA'TES, an Aquitanian people, who sub­

mitted t<» P. Craseus, Caesar's legatus in u. C 56.

(Ji. G. iii. 27.) There are many varieties in the

manuscript readings of this name. It is merely by

conjecture founded on resemblance of name, that

they have been placed about Sauhusse or Sobusse,

on the Adour, between Aquae Tsrbellicae (Dax)

and Bayonne. [G. L.]

SIBYLLA'TES, one of the Aquitanian tribes

mentioned by Pliny (iv. 10). D'Anville conjectures

that the name is preserved in that of the Vallis

Subola, mentioned by Fredegarius. He argues that

they cannot be the same people as the Sibusates

who submitted to I*. Crassus, because Caesar speaks

of a few of the remotest Aquitanian tribes which did

not submit to the Roman general, trusting to the

approaching winter season (Zf. (J. iii. 27); from which

remark we may infer that these remotest tribes were

in the valleys of the Pyrenees. "The people of the

SICAMB

valley of SouU might derive

situation, which is shut h

and the high part of Beam

SIBYBTU& [Sybiut.

SICAMBRI, SYCAMK

GAMBRI.or SUGAMBBI<

or 'S.oLKa.^poi). a powerful

in the time of Caesar the ei

and extending from the 6

generally assumed that th:

from the little river Sirg, w

a little below Bonn, and du

called Sega, Segaha, but i

ancient writer; this assuin]

only a probable conjecture, U

that in the time of Caesart

north and south of the Sift,

Ubii. (Caes. B. G. iv. 16

pp. 290. 291; Dion Cass

20, 32, 33, 3G.) When t.

were defeated by Caesar, th

took refuge in the counti

took them under their prut

manded their surrender; a

built his famous bridge a

terror into the Germans. T

not wait for his arrival, bat

petes and Tencteri, qui He

withdrew into forests sfl|

whither Caesar neither woi

A few years later, B.C. 51

the Kburones, we rind Sica

army of Caesar on the lei

nearly defeating the Komju

had been in another part t

legions. The Scambri we

across the Khine. In b. i

the Usipetes and Tencteri.,

gica, and M.! •. wh<

barians, sustained a seriou

tack which was made a fe\

by Drusua, who pursued th

country. After the withdi

Sicambri formed a confedera

men against the common c

who had received the cot

right bank of the Rhine,

Sicambri made wax upon

their own territory unprot

through it into the interior

death of Drama, Tiberius

of his plans against Germ

offered a more vigorous resi

but in the end they wen

40.000 Sicambri and Sue

Gaul, where as subjects of

moots between the lower

the Rhine. In that coi

formed an important part

racy of the Franks. Thos

transplanted into Guul seen

the hills of Mons lietico,

are not mentioned in histt

time of Ptolemy (ii. 11. § |

of as neighbours of the Br

cambri are described as ho

we hear nothing of towm

seem in fact to have lived

farms. (Caes. & G. jr.

26, ir. 47, xii. 39; Suet..

vii. 9; Oros. vi. 21; Hon

