412 NEAPOLIS, NEAPOLIS.

proximity, translated in our version, " a teacher of

lies" (ii. 18). Tiro time when it assumed its new ,

inline, which it still retains almost uncorrupted in I

Nablus, is marked by the authors above cited and

by the coins. Pliny died during the reign of Titus,

under whom Joseph us wrote, and the earliest coins

bearing the inscription 4AAOTI. NEAnOA. 2AMAP.

are of the same reign.

Sichem is an exceedingly ancient town, and is

frequently mentioned in the history of the earliest |

patriarchs. It was the first place of Abraham's

sojourn on coming into tJie land of Canaan, and there

he built an altar to the Lord. (Gen. xii. 6.) The

connection <>f Jacob with the place is marked by the

traditionary well still called by his name, and referred

to as an undoubtedly authentic tradition, eighteen

centuries ago, — that is, at the expiration of about

hall'the period that has elapsed since the time of the

patriarch (Gen. xxxiii. 18, xsxiv.; St. John, iv. 5,

6, 12); nor need the authority of the other local

tradition of Joseph's tomb be questioned, as he was

certainly deposited there on the coming in of the

Israelites, nnd the reverence paid by them to their

fathers' sepulchres forbids us to suppose that it

could fall into oblivion. {Gen. L 25; Josh, xxxir.

32.) That tomb was probably situated in the

"parcel of a field" where Jacob bad spread his tent, \

which he had bought of the children of Harnor, ■

Shechems' father, for a hundred pieces of money, but

which the patriarch himself represents as taken

(probably recovered) '* from the Amorites with his

sword and with his bow" {Gen. xlviii. 22), and

which he retained as pasture-ground f"r his cattle

after his removal from that vicinity (xxxvii. 12—14).

In the division of the land, it fell to the tribe of

Epbraim, and is described as situated in Mount

Ephraim; it was a Levities) city, and one of the

three cities of refuge on the west of Jordan. (Josh.

xx. 7, xxi. 20, 21.) There it was that Joshua

assembled the national convention shortly before his

death (xxiv. 1, 25); at which time " he took a great

stone and set it up there under an oak, that was by

the sanctuary of the Lord" (ver.26), proving that the

tabernacle was then at Shechem, probably in the

identical place, the memory of which the Samaritan

tradition has perpetuated to this day. [Ebal;

GRRIZIM.] The pillar erected by Joshua continued

to be held in veneration throughout the time of the

Judges ; there the Shechemites "made Abimelech

kiniz, by the plain (|] oak) of the pillar that was in

Shechem," —his own birthplace, and the scene of his

father Gideon's victory over the Midianites (Judt/es,

vii. I, viii. 31, ix. 6); and there it was that the Is­

raelites assembled tomake^lehoboamking. (1 Kings,

xii. 1; 2 Chron. x. 1.) The remainder of its

history is so identified with that of its sacred Mount

Gerizim that it has been anticipated under that

article. There can he little doubt that this is the

city of Samaria mentioned in the Acts of the Apostles,

where Philip preached with such success, and which

furnished to the Church one of its earliest and

most dangerous adversaries, and its first and most

distinguished apologist. Not that Simon Magus

was a native of Neapolis, but of a Tillage of Samaria

named Gilton (Tittw*', Just. Mart. ApoL i. 36;

com p. Euseb. II. K. ii. 13), but Neapolis was the

principal theatre of his sorceries. Justin Mat tvr w.is

a native of the city, according to Eusebius (airb

frAavfai y4&tw6\w$ Xvpiat r%\ riaAaif-nV^s, J/i.<(.

Eccles. ii. 13). Sichem is placed by Eusebius ami

St. Jerome, x.M.P.froui Shilo, which agrees well with

:i xLJLF.

d in mI

and aUsal

a diractafl

vails) opal

the interval between S'dun and Xahlits. (^wmaA.

s. r. 2^\w.) But it must be observed, that then

authors distinguish between theSychein of Ephnaa,

near the sepulchre of Joseph.— which, having beet

destroyed and sown with salt by Abimelech. wa

restored by Jeroboam (comp. Judges, ix. 43. *nb

1 Kings, xii. 25), who, Josephussays. built his pita*

there {Ant. viii. § 4), — and the city of refugesi

Mount Ephraim, which they assign to Maoasaa,

and, with strange inconsistency, immediately identify

with the preceding by the fact th:it Joseph's bsafl

were buried there. {OnomasL *. r. 1 \ffi ) Hi

author of the .Jerusalem Itinerary places it xL M. P.

from Jerusalem.

The modern town of Nablits is situated

lying between Mount Ebal on the N., and

Gerizim on the S., giving to the valley

from E. to W. On the E., the Xabius valiey

into a much wider valley, about 2 miles from us

town ; this valley is called Erd-Mukfma Whereth

Nablfo valley meets the Erd-Mukkma, at the 39

base of Mount Gerizim, is Jacob's well, and, hard ta

the well, is the traditionary site of Joseph'* ftsaa

botli of them close to the Moslem village of A

situated at the SK. base of Mount Ebal P«

this Asknr may mark the site of ancient Syi bar, ts

names present only an anagram ma tical

This would satisfy the language of Eusebius anafl

Jerome, cited at the commencement of the srtai

and remove the obvious difficulty of supposing (J

well so far distant from the city as is A <ii4its, SSI

ticulariy as Xublus abounds with running

and there are copious-fountains between it and■

well. One of these, not noticed by any

situated about mid-way between the well ana^

town, in the middle of the valley, is called

Daphne, so named, no doubt, at the time

Greeks inhabited Neapolis, from the i

fountain and grove near Antioch. The

Xaid its is a large and well-built town, conl

population of from 12,000 to 14.0U0 souls,

entirely Mohammedans; the Samaritans, havingIfl

reduced to something under 200 of all ages an i t*j

sexes. (Kaumer, AzJdsfrao, pp. 144—14$,

Robinson, Bib. Res. tc4. iii. pp. 95—136.)

The coins of Neapolis are very frequent under I

emperors from Titus to Volusianus. The oos

inscription is 4>A. N€ACnOA€&)C, mar* 1

♦AAOT, as in the one below, in which is also a

as in many examples, the name of the rvgiuej.

more usual emblem on the reverse is a temple ail

on the summit of a mountain, to which is ma s

by many steps. The temple is doubtless that

tioned by Dsmasius as Atos 'Tiitorow

Upov (up. PhoL BibL p. 1055). the >tepa

alluded toby the Bordeaux Pilgrim in S.D.

"Ascenduntnr usque as! Minimum muntem

numero ccc." On tlie coins of Titus,

before the Mount Gerizim was introduced, a

in the example below, was the type; or a

COIN OF NEAPOLIS IX l*ALESTT3taV

