■TOG MEDLLL1A. mi:ih)bi:ic.a.

talks, and destroyed a considerable part of his fleet.

(Liv. x. 2 ) [K. II. B.]

MKPOBRIGA, a town in Lusitaniu (Hirt. B.

Alex. 48), the inhabitants of which are called by

Pliny (iv. S3, s. 85) Meiluhriccnses Plumbarii, is

the Name place as Mimiobriga, or Muntobkiua,

which is placed in the Antonine Itinerary (p. 420)

on the road from Scalabis to Emcrita. There are

ruins of the ancient town at Marcao, on the frontiers

of Portugal. (Hesendi, Ant. tut. p. 58; Florex,

E$p. Sttar. xiii. p. 66.)

MEDUSLANIL'M (M«5oir^dVio»),a town in the

southernmost part of Germany (Ptol. ii. 11. § 30),

which must have been situated a few miles to the

north of Vienna. Its exact site is only matter of

conjecture. [L. S.}

MKMUCl'S. [Medoacits.]

MEDUAXA (M(iyrnnr). a Branch of the Lifer,

in Gallia. The name may be ancient, but the

Terse of Lucan in which it occurs is spurious.

[LioKtt] [G. L]

MEDUANTL'M. in Gallia, is placed in the Table

on a road from Durocurtorum (/teinw) through No-

viomagus, Mosc or Mosa (.)/ou»on), to Meduautum,

an unknnwTi site. [G. L.]

ME'DL'LI, a Gallic people on the coast south of

the Garumna (Garonne). Ausonius (£p. 4) says

to Theon :—

"Quum tamen exerces Medulorum in litore vitam."

He says in another Epistle to Theon (Ep. 5): —

"Units Domnotoni te litore perferet aestus

Condatem ad portum, si modo deproperes."

[As to this Cnndatis Portus, see Condatk, No. 6.]

Ausonius (£'/). 7) thanks Theon for sending him

some of tiic oysters, equal to those of Baiae. which

were fattened in the "stagna Medulorum." The

country of the Meduli corresponds to Medoc in the

French department of the Gironde. [G. L.]

MEDULLI (M«8ouoAAoi, Strabo), an Alpine

people, whose name occurs in the inscription

on the arch of Susa and on the Trophy of the Alps

(Plin. iii. 20), where they are placed between the

AciUvones and Uceni. Ptolemy (ii. 10. § 11)

places the Allobroges "under the Meduli," as the

name is there written, by which be means that the

Meduli occupy the country nearer to the Alps.

Strain's description of the position of this people is

clear (iv. p. 203) :—" After the Vocontii are the 8i-

conii (Icouii), and Tricorii, and then the Medualli,

who occupy the highest summits (of the Alps) ; now

they say that the highest part of their country has

an ascent of one hundred stadia, and thence to the

borders of Italy the descent is as much: and above,

in certain hollows, there is a great lake, and two springs

not fir from one another, and from one of these Hows

the Drueutius (Ourance), a torrent stream which

flows down to the Uhodantis, and the Durias (Doria)

runs in the opposite direction, for it joins the Padus

(/'o), flawing down through the country of the

SaUs>i into Celtice south of the Alps.*' When

Strabo says further (iv. p. 204) that the Medulli " lie

as near as may be (/utAnrra) above the confluence

of the lsara and the Khone," he is not speaking of

distance, but of direction or position; for he adds

"and tin- other side of the mountaiu country above

described, the part that slopes towards Italy, is

occupied by the Tauriui, a Ligurian people, and other

Liirures." The conclusion is easy that the Medulli

w«re in the Mauriame, north and south of the town

of 5. Jean de Maurienne, and enclosed brtwtn tb

TarenUiisc and Dau/ihine. The lake is mppaal

by D'Anville and by Walckenaer (Geog. nLu.

p. 31) to be that on Mont Cenit; and Wtlcimier

aihls "that it is exactly 200 Olympic stadia frm

Scez to the termination of the descent, 7 nnln

west of Aorta." But this is a false conclusion, ar­

rived probably from Strabo'a remark about ti*

Durias flowing through the country of the Salsa;

the stream which flows through the country of tit*

Salassi is the Doria Baitea, but the stream ahica

rises near the Durance ia the Doria Riparia.

DAnville supposed that Strabo made the Alps

in the country of the Medulli 100 stadia in perpen­

dicular height, which absurd mistake has been fal­

lowed by the French translators of Strabo. Walcke­

naer has corrected it; but he bu erroneously mads

Ptolemy place the Medulli immediately north <t

the Allobroges, instead of to the southeast. Vi-

truvius (viii. 3) speaks of the goitre* of the Medulli.

a disease supposed to arise frum the water whaa

thev drank. [G. L-j

MEDU'LLIA (M«8oAA/a: Eth. M.Ju\Au».i. Me-

dullinus), an ancient city of Latium, whidi is re­

peatedly mentioned in the early history of Borne;

but, like many others, had disappeared at a oita-

paratively early period. According to Dionysus it

was one of the colonies of Alba; and Diudorus also

includes it among the cities of which be ascribes the

foundation to Latinus Silvius. (Dionys. Hi. 1; Diiai

vii., ap. Etutb. Arm. p. 185.) VS'e are told that it

fell into the power of Homulus by the voluntary

submission of the inhabitants after the fail of Cru--

tumerium, and many of it* citizens migrated to

Koine, among whom was the father ot 7'ullus Ilo»-

tilius. (Dionys. ii. 36, iii. 1.) But in the reign J

Ancus Marcius it was again conquered by the Lai tu,

who held it for above three years, when the K-maa

king a second time reduced it. (Id. iii. 38.) Livy,

however, says nothing of this reconqoest, but treats it

throughout us a Latin city, and enumerates it ir/wie

those of the Prisci Latini which were taken by Tar-

quinius Priscus (i. 33, 38). At a somewhat later

period it is mentioned for the last time, in B. c 484,

as abandoning the Roman alliance, and joimng the

Sabines. (Dionys. vi. 34.) We have no account t«

the period of its ilestruclion, but it is not notice*! by

any of the geographers, and Pliny tells us that it

was no longer in existence in his time (iiL 5. a. *>

The name of Medullia is found in Livy associated

with those of Comiculnm, Ficulea, Crnstunichutr.

and Nomentum, of which the site ia approximately

known, as well as with Ameriola and Caiueria, -A

which the position is as uncertain as that erf Me­

dullia itself. All three were probably situated in

the neighbourhood of the cities just mentioned, but

this is all that can be asserted with any cotdidewe.

Gell and Nibby have described the rema'ns of a»

ancient city, at a spot called Mareellma, ahoU

4 miles from Palombara, at the foot of the Urfiy

Montr Gennaro, which the former writer tup(no

to be Medullia. The remains in question, cu»»i»tiac

of considerable portions of walls of polygt«ial oo-

struction, enclosing a triangular area, are unques­

tionably those of an ancient city: but its idrnttnrs-

tion is wholly uncertain; the situation woctld «uit

equally well for Cameria or Ameriola. as i<* Me-

duliia. Nibby and Abekcn would place liia Uttf

at 5 Angtlti di Ciijmccia, on the highcat summit *rf

the Comkulan hills; where there also remain ancicat

walls, supposed by Gell to be those of i

