ROMA. 723 ROMA.

ltd ao the Piltfine hill seems also to have been

t^inws accepted by those who referred the real

tiiiiifm of Row to a much later period. The

if!»Q respecting this settlement is interesting to

t^wfripoer, u the names of certain places at

■ itn said to be derived from circumstances

vttftl vita it Toe Palatium, or Palatine hill,

t! *u tbooght to hare been named after the Ar­

an wri of Palladium, the » and one I having

t in toe course of time; though others

H tot apprhalioa in different ways, and espe-

tj fr>«n Pallas, the grandson of Evander by his

|shr Dyna sod Hercules (Paus. viii. 43;

ru L it.) So, too, the Porta Carmen falls of

Seman city derived its name from a neighbour-

i.ur of Carmentis, or Carmenta, the mother of

i»fr. (Diooys. L c; Virg. Aen. viii. 338.)

:jc ioVtd can be a more striking proof of the

ffjBj of tou tradition, as well as of the deep root

n s tnost have taken among the Roman people,

it .rmmstance that to a late period divine

■r> MBthroed to be paid to Carmenta, as well

* ttinder himself. Another indication of a  
J trDtenry was the belief which prevailed

i! "'■ Romans, and was entertained even by

enteif as Livy and Tacitus, that letters and

>tf civilisation were fir»t introduced among

»■» Etander. (Lit. i. 7; Tac Ann. xi. 14;

&M.H.)

a freaaer part of those who held the second

* rr^arued Aeneas, or one of his immediate  
Marts, at the founder of Rome. This theory

*n.niLHy current among Greek writers.

the Trojans alone were regarded as the

bn: awetimea they are represented as uniting

1 'wk with the Aborigines. Occasionally, how-

G-wfca are substituted for Trojans, and the

fen* is ascribed to a son of Ulysses and

say, in one case Aeneas is represented as

- auo Italy in compam with Ulysses. But

* lit'm rirw was more particularly Grecian, it  
■Tied by some Latin writers of high repute.

■ i,' tf. 6) ascribes a Trojan origin to Rome;

^yntiw (ir. I), without expressly naming

■ u the bonder, evidently refers its origin to

« ^oainmqae vides, hospes,qua maxima Roma

Si iVygem Aenean coins et herba fuit;"

> ft tht same passage he also refers to the

rjf the Palatine hill by Evander. One

r"*«at form of this tradition, which appears

» bean known to Aristotle (Dionys. i. 72),

•v» cither a matron or a female slave, named

a* timing the ships after the Trojans had

. TVy were thus compelled to remain; and

^iJement became a flourishing city, they

r after the woman who had been the cause

ttrri form of tradition, which ascribed the

■ litnt to Rom u las, was by far the most

1 nestred among the Romans. It must

r** ultimately forming the national tra-

l*<4 there is every probability that it was of

r**ih, aa many of its incidents serve to ex-

-'■aa rites and institutions, such as the wor-  
't**ta, tl^ Luperralia, La rental ia, Lemuria,

: -r-f-v *c (Lewis, voL i. p. 409.) The

"a* rf high antiquity among the Romans,

rsokriariiitfaBi rwpect to some of the Greek

accounts. It was recorded in its present form by

Fabius Pictor, one of the earliest Roman annalists,

and was adopted by other ancient antiquarians and

historians (Dionys. i. 79). Nay, from the testimony

of Livy we may infer that it prevailed at a much

earlier date, since he tells us (x. 23) that an image

of the she-wolf suckling the two royal infants was

erected near the Ficus Ruminalis by the curule aedilcs,

B. c 296.* The story is too well known to be re-

THE CAriTOUNE WOLF.

peatcd here. We shall merely remark that although

according to this tradition Aeneas still remains the

mythical ancestor of the Romans, yet that the building

of two cities and the lapse of many generations in­

tervene between his arrival in Italy and the founda­

tion of Rome by his descendant Romulus. Aeneas

himself founds Lavinium, and his son Ascanius

Alba Longa, after a lapse of thirty years. We are

little concerned about the sovereigns who are sup­

posed to have reigned in the latter city down to the

time of Numitor, the grandfather of Romulus, ex-

* It has been conjectured that this was probably  
the same statue mentioned by Cicero (</e Dt9. i. 12,

Cat. iii. 8), and described as having been struck by

lightning; but this can hardly be the case, as the

image described by Cicero stood in the Capitol.

A bronze statne answering Cicero's description is

still preserved in the Capitoline Museum at Rome,

which is regarded by Niebuhr as a genuine relic

(Hut. vol. i. p. 210), and has been immor­

talised in the verse of Byron. A modern critic

finds it a production too clumsy for the state of Ro­

man art at the time assigned by Livy, and thinks

that the holes in the hind-leg of the wolf were not

produced by lightning, but arise from a defect in

the casting. (Braun, Ituins and Museums of Home,

p. 81.) Kabius Pictor, however, who mentions this

statue in the passage cited from his work by

Dionysius (L c), expressly remarks the primitive

nature of its workmanship,— xaX,<(a wonj/iara

TraAa.cn ipyaurlas,— though considerably less than

acentnry must have elapsed between his time and the

date of its erection. It was rude, therefore, even

when compared with the state of Roman art towards

the end of the third century n. c, though it hnd

been erected only at the beginning of that century.

Mommsen is inclined to believe that the Capitoliue

wolf is the genuine one erected by the Ogulnii and

described by Livy, from the circumstance of its

having been found near the arch of Severus. (De

Comitio Horn., in the Annali dell' Institute^ 1844,

vol. xvi. p. 300.) Whoever has seen the group will

perhaps at all events agree with Winckelmann that

the twins are evidently of a different period from

the wolf.

3 a 9

