TBESPfiOTI.

THESSALIA. 1165

Kiaiarari rising here. I^ftlte noticed the

.....ations of an oblong or ova] enclosure, built of

rry (olid masonry of it regular kind, about half a

-If in circumference; but he observes tliat all the  
:jir*nt ground to the SE. is covered, like the

:tnor of the fortress, with ancient foundations,

[aared stones, and other renviins, proving that

the enclosure was the only fortified part of the

many of the public and private edifices stood

itiiout the walls. The site of some of the ancient

Tple» ia probably marked by the churches, whirh

«•-do fragments of architraves, columns, and other

fr.ent remain* (Leake, Northern Greece, vol. ii.

479, aeq.; Dodwell, vol. i. p. 253.)

COIX OF THESP1AB.

TtTESPROTI, THESPF.O'TIA. [ErF.mcs.]

THESSA'LIA (9»ffffa\Ia or 0«ttoA/o: Elk.

- ta'.t or ©rrraAiSt, Thessalns, fern. ©f<r<roAi'y.

• TToAif, Thessalis: Adj. QetrffaXiK^s, 0*TTaA»t(iyf

-sdims, Tbessalius), the largest political divi.  
a of Greece, was in its widest extent the whole

ii 'rj lying N. of Thermopylae as far as the

uubunian mountains, and bounded upon the W.

the range of Pindus. But the name of Thcs-

ly was more specifically applied to the great

sia, by far the widest and largest in all Greece,

rinwd by the four great mountain barriers of Pin-

i«, Othrra, Osa and Pelion. and the Cambunian

unZaitu. From Mount Pindus,—the Apennines

Uck-bone of Greece, — which separates Thes-

!t from Epeirus, two Urge arms branch off towards

* eastern sea, running parallel to one another at  
f distance of 60 miles. The northern, called tho

< .! nr.lari mountains, forms the boundary between

t -Jv and Macedonia, and terminates in the Bum-

: of Olympus, which is the highest mountain in

Greece [OLVMrt's]. The southern arm, named

separates the plain of Thessaly from Malis,

d reaches the sea Ivtween the Malian and Pnga-

■sn gulfs [Otiikys], The fourth barrier is the

i ce of mountains, first called Ossa and afterwards

1 -<n, which run along the coast of Thessaly upon

- K . oesrly parallel to the range of Pindus [OssA;  
cum]. The plain of Thessaly, which is thus

'losed by natural ramparts, is broken only at the

E. corner by the celebrated vale of Tempe, which

(antes Ossa from Olympus, and is the only way

entering Greece from the N., except by a pass

t «s the Cambunian mountains. This plain, winch

:r i.ned by the river Peneius and its ailluents, is

jj to have been originally a vast lake, the waters

which were afterwards carried off through the

iW of Tempe by some sudden convulsion, which

■ft tha rocks of the valley asunder. (Herod, vii.

rV.) [Tioiit] The lakes of Nessonis and Boe-

■ •. which are connected by a channel, were sup-

»«l by Strabo (ix. p. 430) to have been the re-

tmn this vast lake. In addition to this plain

are two other districts included under the ge-

- ruinc of Thessaly, of which one is the long and

narrow slip of rocky coast, called Magnesia, extending

from the vale of Tempe to the gulf of Pagasae, and

lying between Mounts Ossa and Pelion and the sea;

while the other, known under the name of Malis,

is quite distinct in its physical features from the rest

of Thessaly, being a long narrow valley between

Mounts Olhrys and Oeta, through which the river

Spercheius flows into the Maliac gulf.

The plain of Thessaly properly consists of two

plains, which received in antiquity the name of

1'pper and Lower Thessaly; the Upper, as in similar

cases, meaning the country near Mount Pindus mast

distant from the sea, and the Lower the country-

near the Thermaic gulf. (Strab. ix. pp. 430, 43".)

These two plains are separated by a range of hills be­

tween the lakes Nessonis and Boebeis on the one hand,

and the river Enipcus on the other. Lower Thes­

saly, which constituted the ancient division Pelas-

giotis, extends from Mounts TiUrus and Ossa on the

N. to Mount Othrys and the shores of the Pagasaean

gulf on the S. Its chief town w as Larissa. Upper

Thessaly, which corresponded to the ancient divi­

sions Thessaliotig and llistiaeotis, of which the chief

city was Pharsalus, stretches from Aeginium in the

N. to Thautnaci in the S.. a distance of at least

50 miles in a straight line. The road from Ther­

mopylae into Upper Thessaly entered the plain at

Thautnaci, which was situated at the pass called

CoeU, where the traveller came in sight of a plaiu

resembling a vast sea. (Liv. xxxii. 4.) [Thai -

MACI.]

The river Peneius, now called the SeUamvria or

Snlambria (2aAaii6V>hu, ZaAa>tTpl<u), rises at the

NW. extremity of Thessaly, and is composed of

streams collected in the valleys of Mount Pindus

and the offshoots of the Cambunian mountains. At

first it flows through a contracted valley till it

reaches the perpendicular rocks, named the Melarn,

upon the summits of which several monasteries are

perched. Below this spot, and near the town of

Aeginium or StafftU. the valley opens out into the

vast plain of Upper Thessaly, and the river flows in

a general southerly direction. At Tricca, or Trik-

kala, the Peneius makes a bend to the E., and

shortly afterwards reaches the lowest point in the

plain of Upper Thessaly, where it receives within a

very short space many of its tributaries. Next

it passes through a valley formed by a range of

hills, of which those upon the right divide the

plains of Upper and Lower Thessaly. It then

emerges into the plain a few miles westward of

Larissa; after passing which city it makes a sudden

bend to the X., and flows through the vale of Tempe

to the sea. Although the Peneius drains the

greater part of Thessaly, and receives many tribu­

taries, it is in the greater part of its course

a shallow and sluggish river, except after the melt­

ing of the snows, when it sometimes floods the

surrounding plain. Hence on either side of the

river there is frequently a wide gravelly uncultivable

space, described by Strabo as rrora^ioaAiio-Tot (ix. p.

430; Leake, Northern Greece, vol. i. p. 420).

When the river is swollen in the spring, a channel

near Larissa conducts the superfluous waters into

the Karatjafr or Mat>po\l/u»i), the ancient Nessonis;

and when this basin is filled, another channel conveys

the waters into the lake of Karln, the ancient

Boebeis. (Leake, iv. p. 403.) In the lower part of

its course, after leaving larissa. the Peneius flows

with more lapidity, and is full of small vortices,

which may have suggested to Horoer the epithet

