LIBOUA. 175 LIBYA.

tint fall, into S%o Bay T Killala Bay t Black Sod

ftig t Clew Bay? For the elements of uncertainty see

Vexkicnii, Rhoboodii, and Ibersia. [R. G. L.l

LIIIOliA. [Aebura.]

LIBKIA or LIRIA, a river of Gallia Narbonensis,

which Pliny (iii. 4) mentions after the Arauris

(Ilrrault), and his description proceeds from west to

east It is said (Hardnin's Pliny) that all the MSS.

hare the reading w Libria." Hardnin takes the Li-

bria to be the Lex, but this is the Ledus. [Ledus.]

It has been conjectured that the Libria is the Uvron,

tfaoagh this river is west of the Arauris. [G. L.]

LIBUI. [Libici.]

LIBUM (Ai*o»), a town in Bithynia, distant ac­

cording to the ltin. Anton. 23, and according to the

ltin. Hier. 20 miles N. of Xicaena. (Liban. Vit. suae.

p-2*.) [L.a]

LIBUXCAE. [Gallafcia, p. 934, b.]

LIBl'KXI (AiSvpyat, Seyl. p. 7; Strab. vi. p. 269,

rii. p. 317; Appian, III. 12; Steph. B.; Schol. ad

Xkaad. 607: Pomp. Mela, ii. 3. § 12; Plin. iii.

25; Flor. ii. 5), a people who occupied the N. part

of Illyricum, or the district called Libuknia

(AiA^rix x^P*** Scyl. p. 7: AtSovpvia, Ptol. ii. 16.

§ 8, viii. 7. § 7; Plin. iii. 6,23,26; Pent. Tab.; Orelli,

Inter, n. 664). The Libumians were an ancient

people, who, together with the Siculians, had occu­

pied the opposite coast of Picenum; they had a city

there, Truentum, which had continued in existence

•mid all the changes of the population (Plin. iii. 18).

Kiehnhr (//tit of Rome, vol. i. p. 50, trans.) has

conjectured that they were a Pelasgian race. How­

ever this may be, it is certain that at the time when

tbe historical accounts of theiie coasts begin they

were very extensively diffused. Corcyra, before the

Greeks took possession of it, was peopled by them.

(Smb. vi. p. 269.) So was Issa and the neighbour­

ly tdands. (Schol. ad Apollon. iv. 564.)

They were also considerably extended to the N.,

f» Noricum, it is evident, had been previously in­

habited by Liburnfaui tribes; for the Vindelicians

vert Libumians (Serv. ad Virg. Aen. i. 243), and

S:r»r>. (iv. p. 206) makes a distinction between

them and the Breuni and Genauni, whom he calls

lilyrians. The words of Virgil (/. c), too, seem

distinctly to term the Veneti Libumians, for the

"■innermost realm of the Libumians" must have

been the goal at which Antenor is said to have

arrived.

Driven out from the countries between Pannonia

and the Veneti by the Gallic invasion, they were

expressed within the district from the Titius to

the Arsis, which assumed the title of Libumia. A

v Id and piratical race (Liv. x. 2), they used pri-

riteers. (" Unnbi," u naves Libumicae") with one

W7 Urge lateen sail, which, adopted by the Romans

in tlwir straggle with Carthage (Kutrop. ii. 22) and

in the Second Macedonian War (Liv. xlii. 48), sup-

pUnted gradually the high-bulwarked galleys which

lad iinmerly been in use, (Caes. B. C. iii. 5; Hor.

fyd. i. 1.) Liburnia was afterwards incorporated

vtth the province of D.ilmatia, ami Iadera, its capital,

vuniade a Koman colony. In A. D. 634 Heraclius

Mvhed the Chorvates or Chrobati, who lived on the

N.iide of the Carpathians, in what is now S. Poland

fv OaUicvt. to occupy the province as vassals of the

IVdr* (Const. Porph. de Adm. Imp. c. 31). This

raowrtim with the Byzantine Court, and their oc-

cuiatit.n of countries which had embraced Chris-

l«nitj in the Apostolic age (Titus was in Dalmatia

n the time of St. Paul, //. Kp. Tim. iv. 10), na-

turally led to the conversion of these Slavonian

strangers as early as the 7th century. (Coinp.

Schafarik, Slav. Alt. vol. ii. pp. 277—309; Neige-

baur, Die Sud-Slaven, pp. 224—244.) Strabo (vi.

p. 315) extends the coast-line of Liburnia as far as

1500 stadia: their chief cities were Iadf.ua and the

"conventus" or congress of Scardona, at which

the inhabitants of fourteen towns assembled (Plin.

iii. 25). Besides these, Pliny (I. c.) enumerates the

following: — Alvona, Flanona, Tarsatica, Seniu, Lop-

sica, Ortopula, Vegium, Argyruntuin. Cnrinium,

Aenona, and Civitas Pasini. [E. B. J.]

LIBU'RNICAE 1'NSULAE. [Illyricum.]

LIBURNUM or L1BURNI PORTUS, a seaport

on the coast of Etruria, a little to the S. of the 1'or-

tus Pisanus, near the mouth of the Arnus, now called

Livorno. The ancient authorities for the existence

of a port on the site of this now celebrated seaport

are discussed under Portus Pisanus. [E. H. B.]

LIBUUNUS MONS, a mountain in Apulia, men-

tioned only by Polybius, iu his description of Han­

nibal's march into that country, B. c. 217 (Pol.

iii. 100), from which it appears to have been the

name of a part of the Apennines on the frontiers of

Samnium and Apulia, not far from Luceria; but it

cannot be more precisely identified. [E. H. B.]

LI'BYA (ri AiSvn), was the general appellation

given by the more ancient cosmographers and his­

torians to that portion of the old continent which lay

between Aegypt, Aethiopia, and the shores of the

Atlantic, and which was bounded to the N. by the

Mediterranean sea, and to the S. by the river Ocea-

nus. With the increase of geographical knowledge,

the latter mythical boundary gave place to the equa­

torial line: but the actual form and dimensions of

Africa were not ascertained until the close of the

15th century ad.; when, in the year 1497, the Por­

tuguese doubled the Cope of Good Hope, and verified

the assertion of Herodotus (iv. 42), that Libya, ex­

cept at the isthmus of Suez, was surrounded by water.

From the Libya of the ancients we must substract

such portions as have already been described, or

will hereafter be mentioned, in the articles entitled

Aegyptus, AETinoriA. Africa, Atlas, Barca,

Carthage, Cyrene, Marmarica, Mauritania,

the Oases, Syrtes, &c Including these districts,

indeed, the boundaries of Libya are the same with

those of modem Africa as far as the equator. Tbe

limits, however, of Libya Interior, as opposed to

the Aegyptian, Aethiopian, Phoenician, Grecian,

and Roman kingdoms and commonwealths, were

much narrower and less distinct. The Nile and

the Atlantic Ocean bounded it respectively on

the cast and west ; but to the north and south its

frontiers were less accurately traced. Some geogra­

phers, as Ptolemy, conceived that the south of

Libya joined the east of Asia, and that the In­

dian Ocean was a vast salt lake: others, like

Agatharchides, and the Alexandrian writers gene­

rally, maintained that it stretched to the equator,

and they gave to the unknown regions southward of

that line the general title of Agisymba. We shall

be assisted in forming a just conception of Libya

Interior by tracing the progress of ancient discovery

in those regions.

Progress of Discovery. — The Libya of Homer

(Od. iv. 87, xiv. 295) and Hesiod (Tbeog. 739;

eomp. Strab. i. p. 29) comprised all that portion of

the African continent which lay west of Luwer and

Middle Aegypt They knew it by report only, had

no conception of its form or extent, and gave its in-

