VOLATERRAE.

VOLATERRAE. 1310

able situation oo the summit of a hill, which

required a steep ascent of IS stadia from what­

ever side it was approached, while the summit itself

a level surface of considerable extent,

on all sides by precipices, and crowned by

the walls of the ancient city, (Strab. t. p. 223.)

The hill on which it stands is, according to modern

measurements, more than 17(H) English feet in height

above the sea, arid completely overlooks all the sur.

munding heights, so that the position of the city is

extremely commanding. It is indeed themoststriking

instance of the kind of position which the Etruscans

seem to have generally preferred for their cities.

There can be no doubt of the great antiquity of

Volaterrae, nor that it was, from the earliest

period of Etruscan history with which we hare any

acquaintance, one of the twelve principal cities of the

Etruscan confederation: this conclusion, to which

we should be irresistibly led by the still existing

proofs of its ancient greatness, is confirmed by the

earliest notice of it that we find in history, where it

appears as one of the five Etruscan cities which

furnished support to the Latins in their war with

Tarquinius Primus. (Dinnys. iii. SI.) But from

this time we find no subsequent mention of Vola­

terrae in history till a much later period. Its re­

moteness from Kome will indeed sufficiently account

for the fact that its name never figures in the long

protracted wars of the Romans with the southern

Etruscans ; but even after the Roman arms had been

carried into the heart of Etniria, and the cities of

i'erueia and Arretiom took active part in the wars,

we find no mention of Volaterrae. In u c. 298,

however, we are told that the Roman consul L. Scipio

was encountered near Volaterrae by the combined

forces of the Etruscans (Liv. x. 12), among which

there is little doubt that those of the Volatorrans

themselves were included, though tins is not ex­

pressly stated. But we do not again find their name

noticed in the extant accounts of these wars, and the

terms on which they were finally reduced to sub­

mission by the Romans are unknown to us. We

ham only that in common with most of the Etrus­

cans they were received on the footing of dependent

allies, and they appear among the "socii" who in

the JSecond Punic War came forward to furnish

stippliew for the fleet of Scipio, B.C. 20S. On that

occasion the Volaterrans provided materials for ship­

building as well as corn. (Liv. xxviii. 45.) From

tliis time we hear no more of Volaterrae till the

civil wars between Mantis and Sulla, when the city

e> routed the cause of the former, and from its great

natural strength became the last stronghold of the

Marian party in Etruria, and indeed in Italy. It was

It-sieged by Sulla himself long after every other city

in Italy bad submitted, snd did not surrender till

after a siege or rather blockade of two years' du­

ration. (Strab. v. p. 223; Liv. lxxxix.; Cic.

pro Hot. Amur. 7, pro Care. 7.) As a punish­

ment for its obstinacy, its territory was confiscated

by the conqueror; but it appears tliat it was never

actually divided, and the citizens who had survived

the calamities of the war remained in possession of

:heir lands, as well as of the rights of Kounin ci-

iieos, which bad been doubtless conferred upon them

n common with the other Etruscans by the Lex

lulia in ». o. 89. (Cic pro Bom. 30, ad /'am.

uii. 4 *.. .-•/ Alt. i. 19.) It appears that another

tte-mjjt waa made to dispossess them by an agrarian

aw in the consulship of Cicero, but this calamity

i aa averted from them by the efforts of the gteat

orator, to whom the citizens in consequence became

warmly attached (Id. ad Fam. xiii. 4), and it ap­

pears probable that Caesar subsequently confirmed

them in the possession both of their lands and mu­

nicipal privileges, (/&■)

Volaterrae, however, certainly received a colony

under the Triumvirate {Lib. Col. p. 214), but does

not appear to have retained the tide of a Colonia: it

is expressly included by l'liny among the municipal

towns of Etruria. (I'lin. iii. 5. s. 8; l'tol. iii. 1.

§ 48.) We find no mention of the name in history

under the Roman Empire; bnt it is certain that the

city continued to exist; and it appears again, after

the fall of the Western Empire, as a place of im­

portance during the wars of the Goths with Nurses

(Agath. B. G. i. 11). It continued to subsist

throughout the middle ages, and still retains the

title of a city and its episcopal see; though it ban

little more than 4000 inhabitants, and occupies only

a small portion of the area of the ancient city. The

latter is clearly marked out, having comprised the

whole level surface of the lull, a very irregular space,

abore a mile and a half in length and more than

1000 yards in its greatest breadth: the whole circuit

of the ancient walls is above three miles and a quarter.

Very large portions of these walls are still visible, and

these massive fortifications are incontestably the

finest specimens of the kind now existing in Etruria:

they resemble in their general style of construction

those of Faesulae and Cortona, but are composed of

a different material, a soft, arenaceous limestone,

which composes the whole summit of the bill on

which Volttrra stands. This stone, however, like

the macigiio of FiesoU and Cortona, lends itself

readily to the horizontal structure, and is wholly

distinct from the hard Apennine limestone of which

the polygonal walls of Cosa and other cities are com­

posed. These walls may be traced, at intervals, all

round the brow of the bill, following the broken and

irregular outlines of its summit, and frequently taking

advantage of projecting points to form bold salient

angles and outworks. Two of the ancient gates are

still preserved ; of which the one called the I'urta alt

Arco still serves as the principal entrance to the city.

It is of very massive construction, but regularly built,

and sunnounted by an arch of perfectly regular form

and structure, adorned with three sculptured heads,

projecting in relief from the keystone and two of the

principal voussoirs. The antiquity of this arch has

been a subji-ct of much dispute among antiquariuns;

some maintaining it to be a specimen of genuine

Etruscan architecture, others ascribing it to the

Roman period. The arguments in favour of the

latter view seem on the whole to prejimderate;

though there is no reason to doubt that the Etrus­

cans were acquainted with the true principles of the

construction of the arch. (l>ennis's fjruria, vol. ii.

pp. 146—ISO; Alkali, Antichi Ptipoli ItaUnni, vol.

iii. pp. 4, S.*) The other gate, on the N. side of

the Etruscan walls, now known as the J'urta di

Diana or J'ortone, is of similar plan and construc­

tion to the Porta alt Arco; but the arch is wanting.

No other remains of ancient edifices are now ex­

tant on the site of Volaterrae, except some portions

of Thermse, of Roman date and little interest; but

the sepulchres which have lieen excavated on all sidea

of the city, bnt partirulaily on the N. slope of the

hill, have yielded a rich harvest of Etruscan autiqui-

* The gate itself is figured by Micali, pi. 7, 8;  
and by Abekeu, ilittel-Jtalicn, pi. 2, fig. 4.

presented

Umrided

4 r 4

