202 LOCRIS.

L0CRIS.

Tbrir northern frontier town was Alpeni, winch

bordered upon the Malians, and their southern fron­

tier town was Larymna, which at a later time be­

longed to lioeotia. The Locrians, however, did not

inhabit this coast continuous]/, but were separated

by a narrow slip of Phocis, which extended to the

Kuboean sea, and contained the Phocian seaport

town of Daphnus. The Locrians north of Daphnus

were called Kpicnomidii, from Mount Cnemis; and

those south of this town were named Opuntii, from

Opus, their principal city. On the west the Locrians

were separated from Phocis and Boeotia by a range of

mountains, extending from Mount Oeta and running

parallel to the coast. The northern part of this

range, called Mount Cneinis (Strab. ix. pp. 416,

425), now Tdlanda, rises to a considerable height,

and separated the Epicnemidii Locri from the Pho-

cians of the upper valley of the Cephissus; the

southern portion, which bore no specific name, is not

so lofty as Mount Cnemis, and separated the Opun-

tian Locrians from the north-eastern parts of Boeotia.

Lateral branches extended from thene mountains to

the coast, of which one terminated in the promontory

Cnemides [Cnkmiiiks], opposite, the islands called

Lichades; but there were several fruitful valleys,

and the fertility of the whole of the Locrian coast is

praised both by ancient and modern observers.

(Slrab. ix. p. 425; Korchhatnmer, Htllenika, pp. 11

—12; Grote, Hist, of Greece, vol. ii. p. 381.) In

consequence of the proximity of the mountains to

the coast there was no room for any considerable

rivers. The largest, which, however, is only a

mountain torrent, is the Boacku'S (Bodyptos),

called also Manes (Mamfs) by Strata, rising in

Mount Cnemis, and Ho wing into the sea between

Scarpheia and Thronium. (Horn. //. ii. 533; Strab.

ix. p. 426; Ptol. iii. 15. § 11; Piin. iv. 7. s. 12;

Leake, Sorihern Greece, vol. ii. p. 67.) The only

other river mentioned by name is the Pi-atanius

(nKardvtos, Paus. ix. 24. § 5). a small stream,

which Hows into the Opuntian gulf near the Boeotian

frontier: it is the river which flows from the modern

village of Protlynd. (Leake, vol. ii. p. 174.) The

Opuntian gulf (6 'Oirovvrios k6\vos, Slrab. ix.

pp. 416, 425, 42C), at the head of which stood the

town of Opus, is a considerable bay, shallow at its

inner extremity. In this bay, close to the coast, is

the small island of Atalanta. [Atalanta, No. I.]

There are three important passes across the Locriu

mountains into Phocis. One leads from the territory

of the Epicnemidii, between the summits of Mount

Callidmrnus and Mount Cnemis, to Tithronum, in

the upper valley of the Cephissus; a second across

Mount Cnemis to the Phocian town of Klateia; and

a third from Opus to Hyampolis. also a Phocian

town, whence the rood ran to Abac and Orcho-

inenos.

The eastern Locrians. as we have already said,

are mentioned by Homer, who describes them as

following Ajax, the son of Oileus, to the Trojan

War in forty ships, and as inhabiting the towns of

Cynoa, Opus, Calliarus, Besa, Scarphe, Augetac,

Tarphe, and Thronium. (/£ ii. 527—535.) Neither

Homer, Herodotus, Thucydides, nor Poly bins, make

any distinction between the Opuntii and Kpicne-

inidii; and, during the nourishing period of Grecian

history, Opus was regarded as the chief town of the

eastern Locrians. Kvcn Strabo, from whom the

distinction is chiefly derived, in one place describes

opus :i, the metropolis of the Kpicnemidii (ix.

•\ 41G); and the same is confirmed by Pliny (iv.

7. s. 12) and Stephanus (*. v. 'OadVtf; from Leaks

vol. ii. p. 181). In the Persian War the Optimum

Locrians fought with Leonidaa at Thermopylae, and

also sent seven Bhips to the Grecian fleet (Herod.

vii. 203, viii. 1.) The Locrian* fought on the side

of Sparta in the Pelopnnnesian War. (Thnc. ii. 9.)

The following is a list of the Locrian towns: —

1. Of the Epicnemidii: along the coast from N. to

S., Ai.pksus; Nicaea ; Scakmu or Scarthkxa;

Tiikonr'm; Cnemis or Cnemides; more inhuv!.

Tauphk, afterwards Phakyuae; Augeiak.—2.

Of the Opuntii; along the coast from N. to SL,

Alope; Cystcs; Opi'S; Halae; Lakymxa, which

at a later time belonged to Boeotia; more inland,

Caluabus; Nakyx; Corseia.

COIN OF THE LOCBI OPUNTII.

II. Lociti Ozoi.ak ('OfoAoi). inhabited a dis­

trict upon the Corinthian gulf, bounded on the north

by Doris and Aetolia, on the east by Phocis, and on

the west by Aetolia. This district is mountainous,

and for the most part unproductive. The declivities

of Mount Parnassus from Phocis, and of M'-oct

Corax from Aetolia. occupy the greater part of it.

The only river, of which the name is mentioned, is

the Hyi-aethcs, now the J/omo, which runs in a

south-westerly direction, and falls into the Corinthian

gulf near Nan partus. The frontier of the Locri

Ozolae on the west was close to the promontory

Antirrhium, opposite the promontory Khiuin on ihm

coast of Achaia. Ant rrhium, which was in the

territory of the Locri, is spoken of elhewbere. [VoL

I. p. 13.] The eastern frontier of Lorris. oa the

coa»t, was close to the Phocian town of Crissm; and

(he Crissaean gulf washed on its western aide the

Locrian, and on its eastern the Phocian coast. The

origin of the name of Oxolae is uncertain. Yarioos

etymologies were proposed by the ancients. (Pan*,

x. 38. § 1, seq.) Some derived it from the vera

v^cif, ** to smell," either from the stench arising

from a spring at the foot of Mount Taphiasaoa, be*

neath which the centaur Ncssus is said to have be*a

buried, and which still retains this property («t.

Slrab. ix. p. 427), or from the abundancv of aspho­

del which scented the air. (Cf. Arciiytas. ap.

PluL Quaett. Gram. 15.) Others derived it from

the undressed skins which were worn by the anrirnt

inhabitants; and the Locrians themselves from the

branches (o(ot) of a vine which was pruduord in

their country in a marvellous manner. The Locri

Ozolae are said to have been a colony from the

Opuntian Locrians. They first appear in history la

the time of the Peloponnesian War, as has been men­

tioned above, when they are mentioned by Tbory-

dides as a semi-barbarous nation, along with the

Aetolians and Acarnanians. whom they renemasa,

in their armour and mode of fighting. (Tbac. i. 5,

iii. 94.) In n. c. 426 the Locrians promised ta

assist Demosthenes, the Athenian commander, ia

his invasion of Aetolia; but, after tbe oVfmt ««*

Demosthenes, most of the Locrian tribes sohmitieU

