MVLAE. 385 MYLASSA.

Ik/iraLatinos, on the banks of which the ac­

tus fufoa'ht, cannot be identified with certainty.

h e probable that, even after the Roman conquest

4s.ii, Mrlae continned to be a dependency of

H^.-iia, u km; as that city enjoyed its privileged

(featanisaMoederata civitas: " hence no mention

. tad of its name in the Verrine orations of Cicero;

it ic tot time uf Pliny it had acquired the ordinary

axxijal prink^ei of the Sicilian towns. (Plin. iii.

t a I4t FtuL Hi. 4. § 2.) It never, however, seems

• air Ufn & place of importance, and was at this

t*ni ihuii; crliraed by the neighbouring colony of

l-t-.i Bit the strength of its position as a

■ "7w oajeJ it in the middle ages to be an object

4 fclatiia to the Norman kings of Sicily, as well

a h tar naperor Frederic II.; and though now

: *i opriertnl, it is still a military position of import­

s'-^ Ike Ciodero city of Miiaso is a tolerably

la-jimr, (bee, with about 8000 inhabitants; it is

tat l» tie not part on a low sandy neck of land,

rn^tjjj top peninsula, which is bold and rocky,

Hi tto jraitiaiid. Bat the old town, which pro-

"MipW the same site with the ancient city,

•> rocky hill, forming the first rise of the

>i' Et,-e that constitutes the peninsula or hcad-

j -J i Capo <£ MSaao. The modern castle on a

•3 4 pm!rr deration, commanding both the upper

aw1 i«r ton, is probably the site of the ancient

*=«<•». (Ttaie, Hi. SO; Smyth's Sicily, pp. 103,  
Ban, Clinical Tour, vol. ii. p. 215.)

■» Frooolory of Mylae, stretching out abruptly

*» tar tea, ferns the western boundary of a bay  
«'*«.-i«r»H* fitent, affording excellent anchorage.

fckwn» memorable in ancient history as the

feat tws peat naval actions. The first of these

*» U« victory obtained by the Roman fleet under  
t falsa, over that of the Carthaginians in the

^* hak War, a. c 260, in which the Roman

kr a«aM of the engines called Corvi (then

W far tit (rat tone), totally defeated the enemy's

»i •» Uk fifty of their ships. (Pol. i. 23.) More

a* cestones later, it was in the same bay that

»bo commanded the fleet of Octavian,

•«•»: laatnf Status Pompeius, B. c. 36. Agrippa

(rum the ifiland of liiera, where his fleet

* an Wee stationed, while the ships of Pompey  
■« «aor»» of the bay of Mylae. After their

>•* fi»y took refuge at the mouths of the nume-

■■•aili ritara, or rather mountain torrents, which

n xrw^ tije After this battle, Agrippa

"* a^i master of Mylae as well as Tyndaris;

"»-• taw afterwarda again defeated the fleet

I - v. u a second and more decisive action,

JlrUe and a place called Xaulochus. The

I**""** ■ otherwise unknown, but it seems to

*» ^ tituated somewhere in the neighbourhood  
I fa* ftix/rmlmo, the Phalacrian promontorv of

(Ayaaan, A C. T. 195—109, 115—122;

■ CtjsvxJix. J—11; Veil. Pat, ii. 79; Suet.

a mrxxt of this campaign Appian speaks

[*•» <m aarneil Artkmisii'M, which is no-

Duo Ca»ias and must have been situ-

"» t»the K. of Mylae, but is not mentioned

!■? -t tat f ojtraphers. (Appian, B.C. v. 116;

Csta. xia. 8.) It ia, however, obviously the

asm aliaded to by Siliaa ltalicus as the

rankaa DiaDae" (Sil. Jtal. xiv. 260), and

of his satires,

Sat. iii. 13.)

El«ii.ia Ihanae" (Sil. Jtal.:

Ltntiaa, m a fragment i

iatrrta laanac." (Lucil.

Vibius Sequester also mentions a river which lie

calls Phaceuxcs, and describes as "juxta Pe-

lorideni, confinis templo Dianae." (Vib. Seq. p. 16.)

It is, however, obvious, from Appian, that the templo

was not situated in the neighbourhood of Pelorus,

but at a short distance from Mylae, though tho

precise Bite cannot be determined. It was desig­

nated by popular tradition as the spot where the*

sacred cattle of the Sun had been kept, and were

slaughtered by the companions of Ulysses. (Appian,

Lc; Plin. ii. 98. s. 101.) The Mons Thorax,

mentioned by Diodorus in his account of the battle

of the Longanus (Diod. xxii. 13), must have been

one of the underfalls of the Neptunian Monntains,

which throughout this part of Sicily descend close to

the sea-shore; but the particular mountain meant is

wholly uncertain. [E. H. B.]

MYLAE. Pliny (iv. 12) speaks of two islands

of this name, lying off the coast of Crete. They

belonged to the group of three islands off Phalasama

(A'urW), called by the Anonymous Coast-describcr

Jusagoka, Mkse, Myle (Sladiasm). Petalidha

is the name of the northernmost of the three little

islands; the second, opposite to which is Kaviri, is

called Megaloneri, in spite of its very moderate size;

and the third Pnuoneri. (Pashlev, Trav. vol. ii. p.

61) "[E. B.J.]

MYLAE (Mi/Am: EtA. MuWoi),a town of Per-

rhaebia in Thessaly, taken by Perseus in b. c. 171.

(Liv. xlii. 54; Steph. B. s. r.) As Livy describes

it as a strong place near Cyretiae, it is placed by

Leake at Dlutmdsi, " which is not only strong in

itself, but very important, as commanding the pnss

of the Titaresius, leading into Pcrrhacbia from the

Pelasgiotis." (Noriliem Greece, vol. iv. p. 311.)

MYLAS, or MYLE (MuAar), a promontory on

the coast of Cilicia, between cape Aphrodisias in

the west and cape Sarpedon in the east. On or close

to it was a small town of the same name (Plin.

v. 22; Stadiasm. Mar. Mag. §§ 165,166.) As the

Stadiasmns calls Mylas a cape and chersonese,

Leake (Aria Minor, p. 205) is inclined to identify

it with cape Cavaliere, which answers exactly to

that description. [L. S.]

MYLASSA or MYLASA (to; Mi\aaaa, or Mu-

Kaaa: Kth. MuXa/reo'v), the most important town of

Caria, was situated in a fertile plain, in the west of

the country, at the foot of a mountain, abounding in

beautiful white marble, of which its buildings and

temples were constructed. Hence the city was ex­

ceedingly beautiful on account of its white marble

templesand porticoes,and many wondered that so fino

a city was built at the foot of a steep overhanging

mountain. The two most splendid temples in the

city were those of ZeusOsogos and Zeus Labrandenus,

the latter of which stood in the neighbouring village

of Labranda, on a hill, and was connected with the

city by a road called the sacred, CO stadia in length,

along which the processions used to go to the temple.

The principal citizens of Mylassa were invested with

the office of priests of Zeus for life. The city was

very ancient, and is said to have been the birthplace

and residence of the Carian kings before Halicar-

nassus was raised to the rank of a capital. Its

nearest point on the coast was Physcus, at a dis­

tance of 80 stadia, which was the port of Mylassa;

though Stephanus B. calls Passala its port-town.

(Strab. xiv. p. 658, &c; Aeschyl. Fragm.48, where

it is called Mylas; Steph. B. t. v. ; Herod, i.

171. Ptol. v. 2. §20; Plin. v. 29; Paus. viii. 10.

§ 3.) The splendour of Mylassa is attested by an

c c

