370 MORGANTIA. MOrsiUM.

It is 24 It P. from Vapincum to Mora Seleuctis,

and 26 M. P. from Moils Selcucus to Lucus i / ■■■ ).

The Jerusalem It in. has two Mutationes (Ad Fines,

and Davianutn) between Vapincum and the Mansio

Mons Seleucus, and the whole distance is 31 M. P.

The distances would not settle the position of Mons

Seleucus, but the name is preserved in Stilion. The

Bati Mont >'•'■'■ "ii is only an abbreviation of the

Biutula Alontit Stleuci, a name that appears in

some of the old documents of Dauphini'. Many

remains exist or did exist at Mons Seleucus; certain

evidence that there was a Koman town here.

M:igncntius was defeated a. i). 353 by Constantius

at Mons Seleucus. (Tillemont, Hutoire de* Ein-

pcreura, vol. iv. p. 383 ) The memory of the Iwtllc

h preserved in several local names, as Le Champ

VImptirig, and /-- Champ Batailles. (Ukert, Gal­

ium, p. 448.) [G. L.]

MU'PSIUM (Mo'd-iov: Eth. Mo+um, Steph. B.,

M4nii'f) a dialectic form of Mot^ict'rs), a town of

Pclasgiotis in Thessaly, situated upon a hill of the

same name, which, according to I.ivy, was situated

midway between Larissa and Tempe. Its ruins are

still conspicuous in the situation meutioned by I.ivy,

near the northern end of the lake Karatjair or

Kcssonis. (Steph. B. *. V.; Strab. ix. pp. 441, 443;

Liv. xlii. 61, 67; Leake, Northern Greece, voL in.

p. 377.)

MOPSO'PIA. [Pamphyua.]

M< 'I'-il'i'iA (Moifioirla), an ancient name of

Attica, derived from the hero Mopsopus or Mopsops.

(Strab. iv. p. 397; Lyeophr. 1339; Steph. B. «.r.)

MOPSUCRE'NE (MiiJ/ou Kpnjini), a town in the

eastern part of Cilicia, on the river Cydnus, and not

far from the frontier of Cataonia to which Ptolemy

(v. 7. § 7), in fact, assigns it. Its site was on the

southern slope of Mount Taunts, and in the neigh­

bourhood of the mountain pass leading from Cilicia

into Cappadocia, twelve miles north of Tarsus. It

is celebrated in history as the place where the em­

peror Constantius died, A. D. 361. (Sozom. T. 1;

Philostorg. vi. 5 ; Eutrop. x. 7; Amm. Mire. xxi. 29;

/(in. Ant p. 145, where it is called Namsucrone;

It. IIiti <:<. p. 579, where its name is mutilated into

Mansvrrine.)

MOPSUE'STIA (Mifyou iarta or Mmpovtaria:

Eth. Mo^forjjj). a considerable town in the extreme

east of Cilicia, on the river Pyramus, and on the

road from Tarsus to Issus. In the earlier writers

the town is not mentioned, though it traced its

origin to the ancient soothsayer Mopsas; but Pliny

(v. 22), who calls it Mopsos, states that in

his time it was a free town. (Comp. Strab. xjv.

p. 676; Cic. ad Earn. iii. 8; Steph. B. .<. r.;

Procop. de AeiL v. 5: Amm. Mare. xiv. 8.; Phot.

Cod. 176; l'tol. v. 8. § 7; It Ant. p. 705; Hicrocl.

p. 705; It. Hierot. p. 680, where it is called Man-

sista.) A splendid bridge across the Pyramus was

built at Mopsuestia by the emperor Constantius.

(Mulula, Chron. xiii.) It was situated otUy 12

miles from the coast, in a fertile plain, called 'AAifior

vttuiv. (Arrian, Anab. ii. 5; Eustath. ad Ditmys.

COM OF MOriUESTIA-

Per. 872.) In the middle ages the name of tie

place was corrupted into Mamista ; its present Mas*

is Mtuis or ileiuu. Ancient remains ax* not rean-

tioned, and travellers describe Mensis as a dirty and

uninteresting place. (I.eake, Atia Minor, p. 217;

Otter's Reitcn, i. c 8.) [L. &■]

MURBIUM, in Britain, is mentioned in the Xutitia

as the quarters of a body of horse Cataphraetara

(" praefectus equitum Cataphractarioram Morbid").

We are justified by an inscription in placing Mor-

bium at Moreiby near Whittlutten, when the re­

mains of a Homan camp are yet to be traced. Tba

inscription, preserved in a MS. of Dr. Stukrley, bat

not read by him, is upon a monument to the mr-

mory of a soldier of the Cataphrartarii, which was

fuund within the precincts of the Camp. [CJLH.]

MORDULAMXE (MopSooAaVvz;, Pu.Lrii.4. Ji),

a port on the eastern coast of Taprobane (Cento* ^

The name is probably a corruption of the MS&, end

ought to be Mip&ov Ai^tjy or M6pKov\a Xi^hr. It

is, perhaps, represented by the present Kattrfom,

where there are still extensive ruins. (Hitter. Erd-

hunde, vi. p. 22; Davy, Account of Ceflum. p.

420.) [V.]

MOKGA'NTIA, MURGA'MTA. or UQKGA'K-

T1UM (Mopyan-iov, Strab.; Mo/ryajrirn, Died.:

Eth. MopyavTwos. The name is variously writlea

by Latin writers Murgantia, Murgeutia, and Mcr-

gentia; the inhabitants are called by Cicero and

Pliny, Murgentini), a city of Sicily, in the interior

of the island, to the SW. of Catasa. It was a city

of the Siculi, though Strabo assigns its foundatxt

to the Morgetes, whom he supposes to have crossed

over from the southern part of Italy. (Strab. vi

pp. 257, 270.) But this was probably a mere

inference from the resemblance of name; Stephanas

of Byzantium (». r), who is evidently alluding u

the same tradition, calls Morgentium, or Mcrgentia

(as he writes the name), a city of Italy, bat no mek

place is known. [Moiigktes.] Strabo is the eatj

author who notices the existence of the Morjretea ra

Sicily; and it is certain that when Morgantium first

appears in history it is as a Siculian town. It is first

mentioned by Diodorus in B. c. 459, when he calk

it a considerable city (woAir UtiKoyar, Died. xi-

78): it was at this time taken by Ducetioa, who is

said to have added greatly to his power and

by the conquest; but after the fall of that

it became again independent. We next hear of it

in n. c. 424, when, according to Thucydides, it waa

stipulated, at the peace concluded by Heiiuwiatea,

that Morgantia (or Morgantina, as he

name) should belong to the Camarin

paying for it a fixed sum to the Syiacoaaaa. (Tane.

iv. 65.) It is impossible to understand this arrange­

ment between two cities at such a distanre trans

one another, and there is probably some mistake at

the names.* It is certain that in n.c 396. Mor­

gantia again appears as an independent city of the

Siculi, and was one of those which fell under the

arms of Diony.Mus of Syracuse, at the same tan*

with Agyrium, Mruaenum, and other pnri (tana.

xiv. 78.) At a later period it affmled a rrfinr* as

Agathoclea, when driven into exile from Syisinaa,

* It lias been suggested that we should rant  
Kartmuoii for Ka^apiralon: but the em* is mora

probably in the other and less-known name. Pnr-

haps we should read MOT-iirar** for Mop>n»T«»*>

lie the district of Motyca immediately ad>*nad that

of Camarina.

