VfA APPIA. VIA APPIA. I!i93

valley of the Caudlne Forks, reached Candium,

which must have been situated about 4 miles beyond

Arpaja, on the road to Benevcntum. The distances

given along this line are :—

From Capua to Calatia - - - vi. m. f.

Ad Novas - - - vi.

Candium - - - Is.

Benevcntum - - xi.

(/tm. Ant. p. 111; /(in. //iff. p. 610; Tab. Pent.)

It was at Benevcntum, as above shown, that the two

main branches of the Appian Way separated : the

one proceeding by Venusia and Tarentum to Brun-

dusium; the other by Equus Tuticus and Canusium to

Barium, and thence along the coast of the Adriatic.

We proceed to give these two branches separately.

3. Fmm Beneventum to Brundusium, through

Venusia and Tarentum.

The line of this road is given in the Antonine Itine­

rary (p. 120) as well as in the Tabula; bat in this last

it appears in so broken and confused a form that it

would be unintelligible without the aid of the other

authority. But that this line was the original Via

Appia is proved not only by the dUtinct testimony

of Sirabo. and by incidental notices which show that

it was the frequented and customary route in the

time of Cicero (Cic. ad Alt. v. 5, 7), but still more

clearly by an inscription of the time of Hadrian, in

which the road from Beneventum to Aeculanuin is

distinctly called the Via Appia. The greater part

of the line from Beneventum to Venusia, and

thence to Tarentum, was carried through a wild

and mountainous country; and it is highly pro­

bable that it was in great measure abandoned after

tlie more convenient line of the Via Trajana was

opened. It appears that Hadrian restored the por­

tion from Beneventum to Aeculanuin, but it is

doubtful whether he did so farther on. Neverthe­

less the general conge of the road can be traced,

though many of tile stations cannot be fixed with

certainty. The latter are thus given in the

Antonine Itinerary :—

From Beneventum to

Aeculanum ----- XT. af. P.

Sub Kumulea - xxi.

Tons Aufidi ----- xxii.

Veuusia (t'rnosa) - xviii.

Silvium (Garaijnone) • - xx.

Blent (Gravitia) ... xiii.

Sub Lupatia .... xir.

Canales ------ xiii.

Tarentum (Toronto) - - xx.

Aeculanum, or Kclanum as the name is written in

the Itineraries, is fixed beyond a doubt at Lt Grotte,

near Mirabrlla, just 15 miles from Beneventum,

where a town grew up on its ruins in the middle

apes with the name of Quintndecimum. [Akcula-

stm.] The site of Koniulea is much less certain,

but may perhaps be placed at Buaccia, and the sta­

tion Sub Romulea in the valley below it- The Pons

Aufidi is the Pimte Sla Kenrre, on the road from

Ijictdogna to IVn/ua, which is unquestionably au

ancient bridge, and the distance from Vcnnsia agrees

with that in the Itinerary, which is confirmed also in

this instance by the Tabula. The latter authority

gives as an intermediate station between Sub Romu­

lea and the Pons Aufidi, Aquilonia, which is pro­

bably Lacedngna; but the distances giren are cer­

tainly incorrect. In this wild and mountainous

country it is obviously impossible at preseut to de­

termine these with any accuracy. From Venusia again

the Via Appia appears to have-passed, in as direct

a line as the nature of the country will allow, to

Tarentum; the first station, Silvium, may probably

be placed at Garagnow, and the second, Plera, or

Blera, at or near Gravina; but both determinations

are very uncertain. Those of Sub Lupatia and

Canales are still more vague, and, until the course

of the ancient road shall have been traeed upon the

spot by some traveller, itis idle to multiply conjectures.

From Tarentum to Brundusium the Antonino

Itinerary gives 44 M. P., which is nearly correct; but

the intermediate stations mentioned in the Tabula,

Mesochoron, Urbius, and Scamnum, cannot be iden­

tified. Urbiu* may perhaps be a corruption of Urium

or Hyriuin, the modern Oria, which is nearly mid­

way between the two cities.

Besides the main line of the Via Appia, as above

described, the Itineraries mention several branches,

one of which appears to have struck off from Ve­

nusia to Potentia, and thence to have joined the

highroad to Rhenium, while another descended

from Venusia to Hcraclea on the gulf of Tarentum,

and thence followed the K. coast of the Bruttian

peninsula. These lines are briefly noticed in the

articles Lucania and BitUTni, but they are very

confused and uncertain.

4. From Beneventum by Canusium and Barium

to Brundusium.

It waa this line of road, first constructed by Trajan,

and which was originally distinguished as the Via

Tkajana, that became after the time of that em­

peror the frequented and ordinary route to Brundu­

sium, and thus came to be commonly considered as

the Via Appia, of which it had in fact taken the

place. Its line is in consequence given in all the

itineraries, and can be traced with little diiSculty.

It passed at first through a rugged and mountainous

country, as far as Aecae in Apulia, from which place

it was carried through the plains of Apulia to Ba­

rium, and afterwards along the sea-coast to Brun­

dusium; a line offering no natural difficulties, and

which had the advantage of pasting through a

number of considerable towns. Even before the

construction of the Via Trajana it was not uncom­

mon (as we learn from the journey of Horace) for

travellers to deviate from the Appian Way, and gain

the plains of Apulia as speedily as possible.

The first part of this mad from Beneventum to

Aecae may be traced by the assistance of ancient

milestones, bridges, Ac. (Momnisen, Topogr. dcgli

Irpini, in the Bulkt. dtlC /tut. Arch, for 1848,

pp. 6, 7.) It proceeded by the villages of 7'odWi,

Buonalbergo, and Camlburt, to a place called 8.

Eleuterio, about 2 miles S. of Castel/ranco, which

was undoubtedly the site of Equus Tuticus, a much

disputed point with Italian topographers- [Equus

TiTICfs.] This is correctly [laced by the Anto­

nine Itinerary 21 miles from Beneventum ; the Je­

rusalem Itinerary, which makes it 22 miles, divides

the distance at a station called Forum Novum, which

must have been situated at or very near Btumalbergo.

From Equua Tuticus, the road followed a NE.

direction to Aecae (the aite of which is clearly

knuwn as that of the modern Troja), and thence

turned in a direction nearly due E. to Herdonia

(OrdWi). The object of this great bend was pro­

bably to open a communication with Luceria and the

other towns of Northern Apulia, as well as perhaps

to avoid the defile of the Cerroro, above Borino,

through which the modern road passes. At Aecae

the Via Trajana descended into the great plain of

Apulia, across which it was carried in a nearly

