J182 THRACIA. THBACIA.

concert. The same author (xiii. p. 590) points out

the similarity of many Thracian names of places to

those existing in the Trojan territory. Finally, the

names of the places mentioned by Strabo(vii. p. 321)

as common to Pieria and the southern Thracians. are

evidently Greek (see Mttilcr's Dorians, i. p. 501);

and, as we have seen, the name Thrace itself is in

all probability a significant Greek word.

These considerations appear to us to lead to the

conclusion already .stated, namely, that the mythical

Thracian?!, as well as those spoken of by Homer, were

Pelasgiani ; and hence lh.it that race once occupied

the northern as well as the other shores of the Aegean,

until, at a comparatively late period, its continuity

Was broken by the irruption of the historical Thra­

cians from the north into the country between the

Strymon and the Eitxine. The circumstance that

the Greeks designated these barbarians by the name

which had been borne by those whom they sup­

planted, admits of easy explanation, and history

abounds in instances of a similar kind. But it

may be doubled whether the Thracians had any

general designation in their own language: they pro­

bably called themselves Edooos, Denseletae, Thyni,

Natrae, and so on; but we have no evidence that

they really were all branches of a common stock.

Under these circumstances, it was inevitable that

the Greeks should bestow upon them the name of

the earlier possessors of the country; and those

Thracians who were brought in contact with the

more civilised race would probably adopt it. (On

the foregoing question, see Niebuhr, Lect. on Am:

II'tsL i pp. 142, 212; Led. on Ethnug. and (]eog.

i. ]). 287 ; Wachsmuth, Hist. Ant. i. p. 44, seqq.)

Respecting the historical Thracians we have tole­

rably lull information, but not of that kind which will

enable us to arrive at any very definite conclusions as

to their ethnological relations. That they belonged

to an extensively diffused race, whose early abodes

were in the far northern regions, may be regarded

as sufficiently proved by the concurrent testimony

of the ancient writers. Herodotus, in a well-known

passage (v. y), says that the Thracian nation is the

greatest in the world, after the Indians, and that its

subdivisions, of which the Getae are one, have many

names, according to the countries which they severally

occupy. Strata too (vii. p. 2'J5) states that the

Getae and the Mysi were Thracians (as to the Mysi,

see also i. p. 6). who extended north of the Danube

(vii. p. 2%). In confirmation of his assertion that

the Getae were ethnologicaliy akin to the Thracians,

he adduces the identity of their language (vii. p.

303). He adds (vii. p. 305) that the Daci also

spoke this language. From Ins remark (vii. p. 315)

about the lapodes, it would seem that he regarded

the lllvrians also as nearly allied to, if not actually

a branch of, the Thracians. In another passage (x.

p. 471) he says that the Phrygians were colonists of

the Thracians ; to which race also the Saraparae, a

nation still farther towards the wist, north of Armenia,

were reported to belong (xi. p. 531). "The liithyni,

previously called Mysi, were so named, as is admitted

by most authorities, from the Thracian liithyni and

Thyni, who emigrated to that country (i. e. Asia

Minor ; cf. Herod, vii. 75). And I conjecture that

tl»' Bebryces, who settled in Hysia before the liithyni

and Mysi, were also Thracians. The Mysians them­

selves are said to be colonists of those Thracians who

are now called Mysi. As the Mariandvui are in all

respects like the liithyni, they too are probably

Thracians." (Stmb. xii. pp. 541, 542.) Justin

li

couples the Thracians with the IUyraraind Druu

(xi. 1). In the west and south-wot it n iapoa*

to define the Thracian boundary: wt Lite sac Efi*

Mela describes the whole of the Chalndic yeamx

as part of Thrace (cf. Thucyd. ii. 79); sad tests

no doubt that they extended as tar wuth a* Oirasa,

though mixed up witJi Macedonians, «to «w tfc

preponderating race in that quarter. Is UtetoB

the intrusive and undoubtedly distinct nos rtsl

were mingled with the Thimcuns nesr tbt Cent*

were sometimes confounded with then. TbuFsm

(iii. 4) calLs the Soutdstti the most uvtfisfslfc

Thracians.

Of the language of the ThracitM tcaroSr I

trace exists. They were too Urban** to ss» ■

literary or artistic memorials, so tint the ycaai

guides of the ethnologist are wanting. Stab (4

p. 819) states that bria, which occurs ■ ut S>

initiation of several names of Thrscua ura, dei­

fied "city" or u town." Tim and s fee paff

names constitute all that remain* uf their bccss>

The following is the account wluch 1

gives of the customs of the Thrsciao*

their children into foreign slavery. Tat*

unmarried enjoy perfect freedom in the* i

course with men; but after marrap tarf i

strictly guarded. The men pay large amd I

for their wives to the parents of the latter. 'Is a

tattooed is considered an indispensable asrxsfsjB

birth. (Cf. Strab. vii. p. 315.) IdleDBssi

bono arable; the cultivator of the soil is reran***)

the meanest uf men; to live by war sod f»a^a*

is most noble. The only pods they r

Ares, Dionysus, and Artemis. But ihor kiss

differ in this respect from their sabjecb; f* a«

worship Hermes especially, and hwear by fcasaa,

from whom they say that they are daaof"1

When a wealthy man dies, his corpse Kb a*

for three days: his friends then make a gn* aa\

at which, after bewailing the departed, tbet iUflav

victims of every kind: the body is tbeabsnsile>

ing sometimes been previously bornt. Af

raised above the grave, upon which alMeilj

are celebrated (v. 6—8; cf. Xea UriL is. if ft

Besides these customs, which were caaaas »•

the Thracians, Herodotus mentions some ■asfcaf

peculiar to certain tribes; as, for instanos,is* wia

prevailed among the people to the oorih of U»

tonians. "Among them, each man has rnaiy«a*

When any man dies, a great contest stub ■aaj

his widows on the question ss U> whira d aal

was most beloved by their husband; sb! ■ ■»

their relations take a very sctrre part ■

whohc favour the point is decided, recenw tat«•>

gratulations of botli men and toomu, sal a esa

slain upon her husband's pave by her MB* saw

relation. The other widows regard >*•*■•**

extremely unfortunate, for they am isoa*****1

disgraced." {Ib. 5.) Heruiotn ben

speak of polygamy as confined tosceran

Thracians; but 5>trabo (vii. p. 297)rtjse*

custom as general among them. In a navspa

passage, C.isaubon qaotss from Heracsnaa

to the effect that Thracians often hid »

thirty wives, whom Ussy sasjftsssj

practice still common in many euios w"

Xenophon furnishes us wiih an uJgtfrsn*" ™

Thracian custom of puahasing aim. H**"

that at his first interview with Seutr*s,UwI

prince proposed to give his daugaU* ra «

to Xenophon; and if the Greek lens* * »

