VALVA. 1257 VAKDUARA.

iirectioni to competent persons to make an accurate

snd complete surrey of the whole line of the barrier,

fnm sea to sea. Whether any results of this inves-

li^tiun hare yet been published, we are nut aware.

(X the identified stations the most extensive ami

rn;«runt are Vindobala, Cilurnum, Procolitia, and

Itirmricns. At the first, great numbers of coins and

4in*r antiquities have l>een found. Tire fecond has

tn vn of 8 acres, and is crowded with ruins of stone

mildinp. A great part of the rampart of Procolitia

* entire, and its northern face, which is funned of  
a* main line of wall, is in excellent preservation.

".rr.-vicuJE, however, surpasses all the other stations

nuuijrnitude and in the interest which attaches to

i* rfmains. It is 15 acres in extent, besides a large

liiuid on the 8. Within it no less than 20 streets

mv 1* traced ; and it seems to have contained a

>ric temple, port of a Doric capital and fragments

I the shafts of columns having been discovered in it,

~i<le* a great number of altars, inscriptions, and j

•:ln*r antiquities.

The remaining portions of this great fortification

r.ar be briefly described.

'I'lje Castkia.a, or mile-castles as they are called,

ii account of being usually a Roman mile from one

anther, are buildings about GO or 70 feet square.

*iiu two exceptions, they are placed against the  
) fare of the wall ; the exceptions, at Portgate and

» ir Aesica, seem to have projected equally N. and

v «t the wall. The castella have usually only one

"-.trance, of very substantial masonry, in the centre

■( the S. wall; bat the most perfect specimen of them

ww existing has a N. as well as a S. gate.

Between each two castella there were four smaller

m'ldings, called turrets or watch-towers, which were

<:t!e more than stone sentry-boxes, about 3 feet thick,

nd from 8 to 10 feet square in the inside.

The line of the wall was completed by military

•■ails, keeping up the communications with all its

Jirt>and with the southern districts of the island. As

■ipse were similar in theirconstruction to other Ko-

>a:i roads, it is not necessary to say more respecting

o«n in this place.

The following works contain detailed information

'f-vpry kind connected with the Roman Wall :—

I"i>lry a Britannia Homana; War burton's Vallum

■ •numum, 4to. Loud. 1753; W. Mutton's History

t the Roman Wall, 1801; Roy's Military Antiqui-

» i ,f the Romans m Britain; the 3rd vol. of Hodg-

n '* History of Xorthumberland; and last ly, The Ro-

*na Wall; an Historical awl Topographical De-  
•-.-ifttion of the Barrier of the lower Isthmus, if-c.

'"ittceri from numerous personal Surveys. Ity the.

trr. J.C. Bruce, M. A., 2nd edit. Loud. 1853, 4to.

!'!;!* work contains full descriptions of all the anti-

intiea hitherto discovered along the line of the wall,

nd great nnmbers of well executed engravings of

most interesting objects, besides maps and plans

4 the works. [J. R-]

VALVA (OtoAowo, Ptol. iv. 2. § 16), a moun-

tin in Mauretania Caesarien&is. [T. H. D.]

VAMA (OCa^a, Plot ii. 4. § 15), a town of the

-Vltiei in Hispania Baetica. [T. II. D.]

VANCIAN1S. [Batiana.]

VANDABANDA (Ofrai*a«dVoo, Ptol. tL 12.

: 4), I district of Sogdiana, between the Mons

mcasus (f/indu-Kush) and the I ma us (liimdlrh).

it is probablv nearly the same as the present Ba-

uikkskin (W'ilson, Ariana, p. 164). [Vr.]

VANDALI, VANDALII, VINDILI, or VAN-

i '1 1,1 (CWJaAei, BarSijAoi, toat>bi\oi), » powerful

branch of the German nation, which, according to

Procopius {Bell. Goth. i. 3). originally occupied the

country about th» Pal us Maeotis, but afterwards

inhabited an extensive tract of country on the

south coast of the Baltic, between the rivers Vistula

and Viadrus, where Pliny (iv. 28) mentions the

Burgundiones as a tribe of tho Vinditi. At a some­

what later period we find them in the count 17 north

of Bohemia, about tho Riesengekirge. which derived

fn<m them the name of Vandaliri Montes (Ouar-

5aAnca t>pn; Dion Cass. Iv. I.) In the great Mar-

comannian war, they were allied with the Marco,

manni, their southern neighbours, and in conjunction

with them and the Quadi attacked Pannonia. (.Jul.

Capitol. M. AureL 17: Eutrop. viii. 13; Vopisc.

Prob. 18; Dexippns, Exc. de Leg. p. 12.) In the

reign of Constantino they again appear in a different

country, having established themselves in Moravia,

whence the emperor transplanted them into Pan­

nonia (Jornand. Get. 22), and in tho reign of

Probus they also appear in Daeia. (Vopisc. /Yo6.

38.) In A. D. 406, when most of the Roman troops

had been withdrawn trom Gaul, the Vandals, in

conjunction with other German tribes, crossed the

Rhine and ravaged Gaul in all directions; and their

devastations in that country and afterwards in Spain

have made their name synonymous with that of

savage destroyers of what is beautiful and venerable.

Three years later they established themselves in Spain

under their rhief Godigiselus. Here acain they

plundered and ravaged, among many other places,

Nova Carthago and llispalis, together with the

hnlrarian islands. At last, in A. D. 429, the

whole nation, under king Genseric, crossed over into

Africa, whither they had been invited by Bonifacius,

who hoped to avail himself of their assistance

against his calumniators. But when they were

once in Africa, they refused to quit it They

not only defeated Bonifacius, but made themselves

masters of the whole province of Africa. This in­

volved them in war with the Empire, during which

Sicily and the coasts of Italy were at times tearfully

ravaged. On one occasion, a. n. 455, Genseric and

his hordes took possession of Rome, which they

plundered and sacked for fourteen days. And not

only Rome, but other cities also, such as Capua and

Kola, were visited in a similar way by these bar­

barians. Afterwards various attempts were made

to subdue or expel them, but without success, and

tho kingdom of the Vandals maintained itself in

Africa for a period of 105 years, that is, down

to a. d. 534, when Belisarius, tho general of the

Eastern Empire, succeeded in destroying their

power, and recovered Africa for the Empire. As

to the nationality of the Vandals, most German

writers claim them for their nation (Zeuss, IHe

l)eutschen, p. 57; Wilhelm, Gtrmanien, p. 87);

but Dr. Latham (on 'Vac. Epileg. p. Ixxxviii. foil.)

and others prefer regarding them as a Slavonic

people, though their arguments are chiefly of an

etymological nature, which is not always a safe

guide in historical inquiries. (Papencordt, Gesck.

fler VandaL Herrsehaft in Africa, Berlin, 1837;

Hansen, Wer veranlasste die Bervftmg der Vandalen

nach Africa? Dorpat, 1843; Friedlander, /He

Munzen der Vandalen, Leipzig, 1849.) [L. S.]

VANDALICI MONTES. [Vawdau.]

VANDUARA, or VANDOGARA {OiwZoiapa,

Ptol. ii. 3. § 9), a town of the Damnonii in Bri­

tannia Barbara. Now Paisley. (Cf. Camden, p.

1214.) [T.H.D.]

