PALAESTINA.

5x7 TALAKSTJNA.

Ik atrial prevail. It is in the northern part of

country alone that volcanic format ions arc

si in considerable quantities. Nevertheless much

he laud in which volcanic rocks are not found

-s evident narks of frequent volcanic action,  
i as hot-springs; the crater-like depressions, such

i of Tiberias, and that of the Dead Sea, with

rocks , the frequent and visible disturb-

■ of the strata of the normal rocks, the numerous

mm, and especially the frequent and violent cart li­

ra. The line of earthquakes in Syria includes

• c. Jerusalem, A'oWw, Tiberias, Sofed, Baalbek,

from thence takes a direction from south-

to r> etb-east, follows the direction of the central

i of >yria. runs parallel to that of the valley of

'. - iae, ud lias its termination northwards, in

<oJoanic country on the slope of Taurus (Giaur

\\ sad southwards in the mountain land of

■a 1'etraca. At several places branches of this

voscaosc crevice appear to stretch as far as

ea, and to touch Jaffa, Acre, Beirut, Antioch,

. there be a second crevice, parallel to

: along the coast, and connecting tbe

I am of opinion that such is the

and tbat there exists also a third crevice, coin-

: *na the direction of the valley of the Jordan,

~t*d to the principal crevice above mentioned

aonhem extremity. This supposition will uc-

fcr the ilsunaaiiai of the valley of the Jordan.

■ time of tbe destruction of Sodom and Go-

a tbs surface of the crevice opened, and the

arenasiii of tbe ground from JeM-es-Skeich

watershed in Wody eUAraha followed. The

•rw of tbe resistance arising from local circum-

a, tbe volcanic eruptions connected with this

= cata, tbe local form of tbe land, and tbe dif-

> xhs of tbe chasm then formed, caused a more

i extensive depression, and created along the

crater-like bellows, some of extraordinary

at tbe faauin of Tiberias and that of tbe Dead

Tieae boUows. as is usual in such cases, became

with water, and formed a system of lakes.

t_» water* from the sides of Jebel-es-Sheich

. -J.r principal stream of Jordan connecting

b*vin£ overflowed them successively,

was not the case wilb the Dead Sea.

I of Wadf-el-Araba is probably much

nt tbam tbe depression; and as the Red

bj tbe geognostic nature of Wady-tl-

meriv seems to have extended so far

must have existed at tbe time

i otherwise the Bed Sea would

e hollow formed by the sinking of the

H kmmt nr. there existed before the time of

Tnim a regular fall throughout the whole

to tbe Rrd Sea, it is natural to suppose that

t tbe? Jordan flowed into the Red Sea,

tbe depression took place its course

However this may have been,

tbe filling of the basin of the

until it became of such super-

i of the water was equal to

box. Tbe appearance of its shores proves that,

eajfc*/ to a greater influx of water during

aw^as. or to a less copious evaporation caused

antsocas of temperature, the sea at one time

Bmebwabv bigber than at present-"

baser Omubevr introduces his theory with other

i W nai nil agency collected from modem

mf ua*el (Dr. iJaubeny, A Description of ac-

ii rsarf 1'ihV—ntf.jfr °nrl ed.pp.350—363.)

11 If we proceed southwards, from the part of Asia

Minor we have just been considering, in the direc­

tion of Palestine, we shall meet with abundant evi­

dences of igneous action to corroborate the accounts

that have been handed down to us by ancient wri­

ters, whether sacred or profane, from both which

it might be inferred that volcanos were in activity

even so late as to admit of their being included

within the limits of authentic history. (Nahum, i.

5, 6; Micah, i. 3, 4; Isaiah, lxiv. 1—3; Jer. li.

25, 26.)

u The destruction of the five cities on the borders

of the lake Asphaltitis or Dead Sea, can be attri­

buted, I conceive, to nothing else than a volcanic

eruption, judging both from the description given by

Moses of the manner in which it took place (Gen.

MX. 24, 25, 28; Deut. xxix. 23), and from the

present aspect of the country itself.

"Volney's description of the piesent state of this

country fully coincides with this view. (Travels in

Egypt and Syria, vol. i. pp. 281, 282.)

*** The south of Syria/ be remarks,' that is, the  
hollow through which the Jordan tlows, is a country

of volcanos: the bituminous and sulphureous sources

of the lake Asphaltitis, the lava, the pumice-stones

thrown upon its banks, and the hot-baths of Ta-

baria, demonstrate that this valley has been the

seat of a subterraneous fire, which is not yet extin­

guished. Clouds of smoke arc often observed to

issue from the lake, and new crevices to be formed

upon its banks. If conjectures in such cases were

not too liable to error we might Buspect that the

whole valley has been formed only by a violent

sinking of a country which formerly poured the

Jordan into tbe Mediterranean. It appears certain,

at least, that the catastrophe of five cities destroyed

by fire must have been occasioned by the eruption of

a volcano then burning.

M * The eruptions themselves have ceased long since,

but the effects which usually succeed them still con­

tinue to be felt at intervals in this country. The

coast in general is subject to earthquakes; and

history notices several which have changed the

face of Antioch, Laodicea, Tripoli, Bcrytus, Tyre,

and Sidon. In our time, in the year 1759, there

happened one which caused the greatest ravages.

It is said to have destroyed in tbe valley of Baal bee

upwards of 20,000 persons; a loss which has never

been repaired. For three months the shock of it

terrified the inhabitants of Lebanon so much as to

make them abandon their houses and dwell under

tents.'

"In addition to these remarks of Volney, a recent

traveller, Mr. Legh (sec his account of Syria, at­

tached to Macmichael's Journey from Moscow to

Constantinople), states that, "on the south-east side

of the Dead Sea, on the right of the road that leads

to KeraJc, red and brown homstone, porphyry, in the

latter of which the felspar is much decomposed,

syenite, breccia, and a heavy black amygdaloid,

containing white specks, apparently of zeolite, are

the prevailing rocks. Not fur from Shobec, where

there were formerly copper mines, he observed por­

tions of scoriae. Near the fortress of Shobec, on

the left, are two volcanic craters; on the right, one.

The Roman road on the same side is formed of

pieces of lava. Masses of volcanic rock also occur

in the valley of Ellasar.

"The western side of the valley of the Jordan, ac­

cording to Russegger, is composed of Jura limestone,

intersected by numerous dykes and streams of basalt,

