720 KOMA. ROMA.

seven liills—the site on which the eternal city itself

was destined to rise — stands on tlie left bank of the

Tiber. To the N. of tliein is another hill, tin1 Mons

rincius or Coll is Hortorum, which was excluded from

the ancient city, but part of it wis enclosed in the

walls of Aurelian. The Tiber, at its entrance into

Koine, very nearly approaches the foot of this hill,

and then describes three bold curves or reaches;

fust to the SW., then to the SE., and again to the

MY. The distance from the spot where the Tiber

enters the city to the SW. point of the Aventine is,

in a direct line, about 2 miles. At the extremity of

the second, or most eastern reach, it divides itself for

a short space into two channels and forms an island,

called the Insula Tiberina. At this spot, at about

3U0 paces from its eastern bank, lies the smallest

but most renowned of the- seven hills, the Mons Ca-

pitolinus. It is of a saddle-back shape, depressed in

the centre, and rising into two eminences at its

6. and N. extremities. On its N. or rather NE.

side, it must in ancient times have akvst tcop't

the Col lis Quirinalix, the most northerly of the^s,

from which a large portion was cut away by Inn,

in order to construct his forum. The CJuirmaiis a

somewhat in the shape of a honk, rumiing first :o

the SW., and then curving its extreme jmn: u> !t»

S. Properly speaking, it is not a distinct bill, '-n

merely a tongue, projecting from the sin^ ■—- -

ridge which also throws out the adj"inim: Yincni

and the two still more southern projections <i Eta

Esquiline. It will l>e seen from the anneal jaia,

without tlie help of which this description max t*

understood, that the Qiurinal. and the boutheniaas

and most projecting tongue of the Esquiline, aiax»'.

meet at their extremities, and enclose a eonaimiti

hollow — which, however, is nearly filled op by li*

Vimraa], and by the northern and smaller tanned

the Esquiline. These two tongues ot :\\* \l- i ■

were originally regarded as distinct hills, imdrr at

names of Cispius, the northern projection, isd Op.

FLAH OF THE ROMAN hills.

A. Mons Capltollnuii

B. Mont Palatlnus.

<". Mom Avf-mfmis.

J). Mom Caellua.

K. Mniis Esquilinui.

F. Col lis VimiiuilU.

G. Collii Quinnnlis,

H. Collia Hortorum (or Mons Tincius).

I. Mom Jiiuiculus.

a. Velia.

b. Gcrmalus.

c. Oppius.

rf. Ci.|iiu-.

re. TiberU Fl.

1. Praia Quinrtia.

2. Praia FUmiuia.

3. Subura.

4. Carinas.

5. Carroliemla.

6. Velabrum.

7. Forum Boarinm.

8. VaUis Murcla.

