SPOLETIUM. STABIAE. 1033

• b. c. 217, just after the battle at the Lake

v tikqua, Hannibal advanced to the gates of

f»*tinm, and made an assault upon the city, but

u repulsed with so much vigour by the colonists,

m be drew off his forces and crossed the Apen-

i:i into Picenum. (Lit. xxii. 9.) A few years

ser (B.C. 209) Spotetium was one of the colonies

i--fi distinguished themselves by their fidelity and

al is tbs service of Rome, at the most trying

- nt of the war. ( Id. xxvii. 10.) For some  
a after this we hear but little of Spoletium,

•neb it seems to have been a flourishing muni-

fui town. In ii. c. 107 it was selected by the

as the place of confinement of Gcntius, king

ulvria, and his sons; but the citizens declined to

k» charge of them, and they were transferred to

iriam (Liv. xlv. 43). But in the civil war between

inns and Sulla it suffered severely. A battle

■ ftught beneath its walls in b. c. 82, between

snprius and Crassus, the generals of Sulla, and

mrutas, the lieutenant of Carbo, in which the latter

■ defeated, and compelled to take refuge in the

if. (Appian, B. C. i. 89.) After the victory of

[Us, spoletium was one of the places severely

Bulled, all its territory being con6scated, appa-

Mlj for the settlement of a military colony. (Flor.

■ SI; Zampt, de Colon, p. 254.) Florus calls

isfetium at this time one of the "municipia IUliae

^tdisshna;'* but this is probably a rhetorical

V£f ration. Cicero, however, terms it, in reference

i tomewhat earlier period, " colonia Latina in

ani* nrma et illustris." (Cic pro Balb. 21.) It

ume a rnunicipium (in common with the other

Us colonies) by virtue of the Lex Julia; and does

lippear to have sub.se/juenily obtained the title of

v..ir. though it received a fresh accession of set-

m (Lib. Col p. 225; Zumpt, I. c.) It is again

niiuQcd during the Perusian War (b.c. 41), as

Wing a retreat to Muitalius Plancus when he

« defeated by Octavian (Appian, B. C. v. 33);

i ttnxa to hare continued under the Empire to

i fi"tiri*hing municipal town, though rarely men-

mi in history. (Strab. v. p. 227; Plin. iii. 14.

Hi Ptoliii. 1. § 54; Orell. In$cr. 1100, 1103,

C6.) U was at or near Spoletium that the em-

*' Amu lianas was encamped, when the death  
tii rivals Gallus and Volusianus gave him

fp'Tsry possession of the empire; and it was there

• that he was himself put to death by his soldiers,

ffi reign of only three months. (Vict. EpiL 31.)

"JeUani is again mentioned during the Gothic

ft, after the fall of the Western Empire, when

ni taken by the Gothic king Total* (Procop.

f*. iii. 12), who partially destroyed its fortifica-

»; bat these were restored by Narscs {lb. iv.

)• It was at this time regarded as a strong

cms, and was a place of importance on that ac-

nt> Under t lie Lombards it became the capital

• duchy (about a. D. 570), the dukes of which

t rendered themselves altogether independent of

Lombard kings, and established their authority

r s considerable part of Central Italy. The

of Spoieto did not cease to exist till the 12th

tan.

>f <le;ium was not situated on the Via Flammia,

ferly to called. That line of highroad proceeded

u> Xamia to Mevania {Bevogna) by a more direct

tr*e through Carsulac, thus leaving on the right

■i the two important towns of Interamna and

<*>tiam. (Strab. v. p. 227.) We learn from

aim that this continued to be the line of the

Flaminian Way as late as the time of Vespasian (Tac.

Hist. iii. 60); but at a later period the road through

Interamna and Spoletium cume into general use,

and is the one given in the Itineraries, {Itin. Ant.

p. 125; Itin. flier, p. 613.) This must have

followed very nearly the same line with the modern

road from Home to Pervgia, which crosses a steep

mountain pass, called Monte Somma, between Spo­

ieto and Terni; and this was probably the reason that

this line was nvoided in the first instance by the Via

Flaminia. But there must always have been a

branch road to Spoletium. and from thence, as we

learn from Suetonius {Vetp. 1), another branch

led to Nursia in the upper valley of the Nar.

Spoltto is still a tolerably flourishing place, with

the rank of a city. It has several Roman remains,

among which the most interesting is an arch com­

monly called the Porta dAtmibale, as being sup­

posed to be the gate of the city from whence that

general was repulsed. There is, however, no foun­

dation for this: and it is doubtful whether the arch

was a gateway at all. Some remains of an ancient

theatre are still visible, and portions of two or three

ancient temples are built into the walls of modern

churches. A noble aqueduct, by which the city is

still supplied with water, though often ascribed to

the Romans, is not really earlier than the time of

the Lombard dukes. Some remains of the palace

inhabited by the latter, but first built by Theodoric,

arc also visible in the citadel which crowns the hill

above the town. [E. H. B.]

SPO'RADES (Xwop&ts), or the "Scattered," a

group of islands in the Aegaean, Cretan, and

Carjtathian seas, so called because they were scattered

throughout these seas, in opposition to the Cyclades,

which lay round Delos in a circle. But the dis­

tinction between these groups was not accurately

observed, and we find several islands sometimes

ascribed to the Cyclades, and sometimes to the

Sporades. The islands usually included among the

Cyclades are given under that article. [Vol. I. p.

723.] Scylax makes two groups of Cyclades; but

his southern group, which he places off the coast of

Laconia and near Crete, ore the Sporades of other

writers: in this southern group Scylax specifies.

Melos,Cimolos, 01iaros,Sicinos,Thera, Anaplic, Auty-

palaca (p. 18, cd. Hudson). Strabo first mentions

among the Sporades the islands lying off Crete,—

Then, Anaphe, Therasia, Ios, Sicintw, Lagusa, Pbo-

legandros (x. pp. 484, 485). Then, after de­

scribing the Cyclades, he resumes his enumeration

of the Sporades,—Amorgos, Lehinthos, Lena, Pat-

mot, the Cora&siae, Icaria. Astypalaea, Telos,Chalcia,

Nisyros, Casos, the Calydnae (x. pp. 487—

489). Pliny (iv. 12. s. 23) gives a still longer lilt

An account of each island is given under its own

name.

STABA'TIO, in Gallia, a name which occurs in the

Table on a road from Vienna ( Vienne) past Cularo

(Grenoble) to the Alpis Cottia {Mont Genevre).

Stabatio is placed between Durotincuin and Alpis

Cottia, D'Anville fixed Stabatio at Monettier or

Monetier near Briancon. [G. L.]

STA'BIAE (ZraSuu: Etk Stabianus; Ru. near

Ciutell 'a Mare), & city of Campania, situated at tho

foot of the Mons Lactarius, about 4 miles S. of Pom­

peii,and a mile from the sea. The first mention of it

in history occurs during the Social War (b. c. 90),

when it was taken by the Samnitc general C. Papius

(Appian, B. C. i. 42). But it was retaken by Sulla

the following year (u. c. 89), aud entirely destroyed

