BOMA. 835 ROMA.

re ipp&ti were twofold; it wired for gymnastic

a! nrlika exercises, and also for larpe political as-

»cibj» of the people, as the cow*itin and contiones.

At fat it must have been a completely open field

rat <ah/a few Mattered sacred places upon it;

n! J «u not till the 6lh century of the city that

irtjr temples began to be built there. By de-

pn il became covered with buildings, except in

an i«rt devoted to the public games and exercises,

laiwfecisUy the eowrva, or horse-races, instituted

n tanohu in honour of Mars. (Varr. L. L. vi.

[13; hoL Diac p. 81.) The spot where these

stytia'it indicated by Grid {Fait. iii. 519): —

* Afcera jroimneo spectabis Equina campo  
Quoa Tiberis ranis in latus urgct aquis.

Qui tames rjecta si forte tenebitur unda

Csrliua arcipiet pulverulentus equus."

Tli put of the Campus the side of which may

r aid to be "pressed upon " by the stream of the'

«r, it that lying between IHazut Navona and

r 'M^k of S. A ngela, where the ground forms an

<:* dtfnM to the descending waters. Here also

u tfct bathing-place of the Roman youth. (Uor.

Hi. 7.14; Com p. Cic. pro Coel 19.)

lax writers hare assumed that this spot was

fvdnt as forming a distinct division called Cam-

:< uixox, whilst the remainder of the plain

■ a/led C ah its Major. (Preilcr, Regional,

1W; Urlichs, Rom. Manfeld, p. 19; Canina,

*. fp.384, 412.) But this dUinction does  
> 'ppur to rest on adequate authority. It is

n«i frum a passage in Catullus: "Te campo

a»v tores minore" (liii. (lv.). 3); and from

1 'W in Strabo, quoted in the former part of this |

tei;. where, is describing the Campus Marti us,

•t»b of soother field, or plain, near it (wAn-

w t mrti rev rtSlov rovrov cat &AAo rtliov, ko!

'mi rtuiwA»0«7», a. t. A.). But, as Becker

■rm (Bmdb. p. 599), Strabo has already dc-

the Campus Marti us aa the usual place for

saatfic exercises, and therefore his &AAo nthiov

uw bt the part of it just described. It seems

■ probable that be meant the Campus Flaminius,

tr-i nil rrtained its ancient name, though for the

* fart covered with the porticoes and other build.

* *bch be describes ; just as we have a Moor-  
«■ ud Goodman's Fields in the heart of London,

i I'uipas Minor of Catullus may have been the

n?ta Martialia on the Caelian ; or, as Preller

wto,the punctuation may be:—

* Te campo quaesiviinus, minore  
Te in circo.

T» tacieat loci religion on the Campus Martius

"lit following: — The I'alus Cafreae, or

rtAX. ahere Kornulua is said to have disappeared

*t to» holding of an assembly of the people: its  
Bum a unknown; but it does not seem im-

htfe, aa PreUer suggests (Regional, p. 137),

»i» she any have been marked by tlte Aedicula

■nuttu, mentioned in the Sotitia in the 7th

Doc, taui th»t it may consequently have lain

fcwtwn aader the Quirinal. (Liv. i. 16; Ov.

■t h. 441, Ac.) A place called Takentum, or

scma. which appears to have been volcanic

eaau ipafc), with a subterranean Aka Di ns

<m< rr I'iuktbtixae, where the ludi saecularee

■ aatforaMd. The legend of Valesius and his

were, sad an account of the institution of the

••a. »Ui be found in the IHciionary of Antiqvi-

hies, p. 716. We are here only concerned for the situ­

ation of the place, which is very variously assigned

by different writers. Urlichs placed it in the Forum

Boarium, which, however, mnst be wrong, as it was

undoubtedly in the Campus Martius (Val. Max. ii.

4. § 5; Festus, p. 329), though at one extremity of

it. (Zos. ii. 4.) Hence Becker placed it near the

mausoleum of Augustus, being led to this conclusion

by the Sibylline oracle recorded by Zosimus (i t.):—

'Pc'ff fv eV ittiltf wood QiftSptoos iirKtrov Vowp

"Oirwp ffTeuvoVoTOK.

Becker refers the word o-T«o»oVaToi' in this pas­

sage to weStov, and hence selects the northern part

of the Campus for the site of Tarentum, as being

the narrowest. But it may equally well refer to

HSup; and the narrowest part of the Tiber in its

course through the Campus Martius — taking that

appellation in its more extended sense—is where it

is divided by the Insula Tiberina. Other passages

adduced are undecisive, as those of Ovid (Fail, i.

501) and Seneca (de Morte Claudii, 13); and

therefore though Preller (Reyionen, Anhang, p. 241)

pronounces against Becker's site, we must leave the

question undetermined.

The Aha Martis, near which, when the comitia

were ended the newly-elected censors took their

seats in curule chairs, was probably the earliest holy

place dedicated to the god on the Campus which

bore his name. We liave already observed, when

treating of the Porta Fontinalis, that it must have

been near that gate, and that it was perhaps erected

by Numa. There was also an Agues Martis on

the Campus, probably at the spot where the equina

were celebrated. (Dion Cass. lvL 24; Ov. Fast. ii.

855.) It seems to have been a distinct temple

from that already mentioned in the Circus Fla­

minius. The site of the Tkmtle of the Lares

Permakim, dedicated by the censor M. Aemilins

Lepidus, B.C. 179, in pursuance of a vow made by

L. Aemilius Itegillus after his naval victory over the

fleet of Antiochus, cannot be determined (Liv. xL

52; Macrob. SaL i. 1U); but it may probably have

stood, as Preller conjectures, near the Navalia.

Tbe Aei>RS Jittknak, built by Q. Lutatius Cs-

tulus towards the end of the Republic, stood near

the arches of the Aqua Virgo, and consequently

near tin- Septa. (Serv. ad A en. xii. 139; Ov.FaiL

i. 403; Cic. pro fluent. 36.)

Such was the Campus Martins down to the im­

perial times; when the great works undertaken

there by Julius Caesar and Augustus gave it quite

a new appearance. But, before we proceed to de­

scribe these, we must say a few words respecting the

Navalia, or government dockyards. The older

topographers placed them under the Aventine, from

confounding them with the Emporium or commercial

docks. Piale first pointed out the incorrectness of

this view; but cried himself in placing the Navalia

on the opposite bank of the Tiber, from his ignorance

of certain passages which determine them to have

been in the Campus Martins. These passages,

which were first adduced by Becker (de Muris. rtc.

p. 96, Handb. p. 159), are the. following: "Spea

unica imperii popnli Hmnani, L. Quinctius, trans

Tilierim contra eum ipsum locum, ubi nunc Navalia

sunt, quatuor jugerum colebat agrum, quae pruta

Quinctia vocantur." (Liv. iii. 26.) This pusNige

shows the Navalia to have been on the left bank of

the Tiber, oppttsite some fields called pnrta (Juinctia;

and the following one from Pliny fixes the situation

3 il 2

