264 MANTINEIA. MAXTIXEIA.

biiw (xi. 11. § 4, compared with xi. 14. § 1).

Here commenced the ditch, which is said by Pnly-

biiw to have led across the Maiitineian plain to the

mountains bordering upon the district of the Elis-

phasii (?j ra>v 'EAurfairfafK X"Pa» l'u'- *»• H. § 6,

com p. 15. § T, xvii. G).* Beyond the temple of

Poseidon was a forest of oaks, called Pblagi's

(n«A.a>oi), through which ran the mail to Tegea.

On turning out of the road to the left, at the temple

of Poseidon, one found at the distance of 5 stadia

tlie tombs of the daughters of Pcliaa. Twenty

stadia further on was a place called Phokzon

(♦offwf). This was the narrowest part of the plain

between Tegea and Mantineia, the road being

shortened by the hill Scope on the \\\ and a similar

projecting rock on the E. Here was the tomb of

Areithous, who was said to have been slain in a

narrow pass by Lycurgua (oTttvwinf iv o5«, Horn.

IL vii. 143).J This narrow valley, shut in by the

two projecting ridges already mentioned, formed the

natural frontier between the territories of Mantineia

and Tegea. The boundary between the two states

was marked by a round altar on the road, which

was about four miles distant from Mantineia, and

about six miles from Tegea. It was here that

the Lacedaemonian army was posted, over which

Kpamiuondas gained his memorable victory. He

had marched from Tegea in a north-westerly direc­

tion, probably passing near the site of the modern

Tripotitzii, and then keeping along the side of Mt-

Maenatus. He attacked the enemy on their right

flank, near the projecting ridge of Mt. Maenalus,

already described. It was called Scoja? (2*oirn,

now Myrtikas), because Kpaininondas, after re­

ceiving his mortal wound, was carried to this height

to view the battle. Here he expired, and his tomb,

which Pansanias saw, was erected on the spot.

(Paus. viii. 11. §§ 6, 7; for an account of the

battle &ee Grote, vol. xi. p. 464, seq.)

The road from Mantineia to Pallantium ran

almost parallel to the road to Tegea till it reached

the frontiers of Tegcatis. At the distance of one

stadium was the temple of Zeus Cbarmon. (Paus.

viii. 10, 11, 12. § I.)

Two roads led from Mantineia eastwards to Argos,

* This ditch must have terminated in a kata-  
vothra, probably in one of the katavothra on the \V.

side of the plain at the foot of the Maenahan moun­

tains. On the other side of these mountains is the

village and river named Helisson; and as the Elis-

phaMi are not mentioned in any other passage, it

has been proponed to read 'EXunrovrictv instead of

'F.\ic<paaib>y. (Ross, p. 127.) Leake has con­

jectured, with some probability, that Klisphasii may

be the corrupt ethnic of Klymia ('EAv/ua), a

place only mentioned by Xenophon {Iftil, vi. 5.

§ 13), who places it on the confines of Orrhornenus

and Mantineia. Although Leake places Ely mm at

Levidhi, on the NW. frontier of Mantinice, he con­

jectures that the whole plain of Alcimedon may

hsve belonged to it. (Leake, Pebtponwsiaca, p.

380.)

"| Leake imagines that Phoezon was situated on

a *ide road, leading from the tombs of the daughters

of Pelias. But Hoss maintains that Plnvzon was

on the high-road to Tegea, and that Pau>anias has

only mentioned by anticipation, in viii. 11. § 1, the

altar forming the boundary between Mantinice and

Tegeatis, the more proper place for it being at

the close of § 4.

called Piuses (Jlplvot) and Climax (KAijiaO. or

the "Ladder," respectively. (Paus. viii. 6. § 4.)

The latter was so called from the stejs cut oat of

the rock in a part of the road; and the Prions nru-

bably derived its name from parsing by a Ur^r

holm-oak (wpnvoj), or a small wood of holm-oaks;

but the roads do not appear to have borne Ukm

names till they entered Mantinice. There are only

two passes through the mountains, which separate

the Argive plain from Mantinice, of which the

southern and the shorter one is along the coarse of

the river Charadrus, the northern and the hunger atm

along the valley of the Inachus. Both Koas anu

Leake agree in making the Prinus the southern

and the Climax the northern of these two road*,

contrary to the conclusions of the French surveyors.

Both roads quitted Argos at the same gat*, at the

hill called Deiras, but then immediately parted in

different directions. The Prjxcs, after ending th-

Charadrus, passed by Oenoe, and then ascended

Mount Artemisiurn (Afalevos), on tl>e summit cf

which, by the road-side, stood the temple of AjtemU.

and near it were the sources of the Inachus. Here

were the boundaries of Mantinice and Argolia.

(Paus. ii. 25. §§ I—3.) On descending thU muun-

tain the road entered Mantinice, first crossing through

the lowest and most marshy part of the " Argon,'*

or "Uncultivated Plain," so called because the

waters from the mountains collect in the plain and

render it unfit for cultivation, although then is a

katarothra to carry them off. On the left of the

plain were the remains of the camp of Philip, son cf

Ainyntas, and a village called Nestajse (Nfo-roVp),

probably now the modem village of TdpiaMta.

Near this spot the waters of the plain entered

the katavothra, and are said not to liare made

their exit till they reached the sea off the coast of

the Argeia. Below Nestane was the ** Dancing-

place of Maera" (Xopos Malpas), which was only

the southern arm of the Argon Plain, by means if

which the latter was connected with the great Man-

tineian plain. The road then crossed over the foot

of Mount Alesium, and entered the great Mantineian

plain near the fountain Arne at the distance uf 12

stadia from the city. From thence it pas*ed into

the city by the south-eastern or Tegcatan gate.

(Paus. viii. 6. § 6—viii. 8. § 4.)

The other road, called Climax, ran from Argos

in a north-westerly direction along the course of the

Inachus, first 60 stadia to Lyrceia, and again 6U

stadia to Orneae, on the frontiers of Siryonia anJ

Phliasia. (Paus. ii.25. §§ 4—6.) It then erased

the mountain, on the descent of which into Mantinur

were the steps cut out of the rock. The iv*d en­

tered Mantinice at the upper or northern corner if

the Argon Plain, near the modern village of S*m$a.

It then ran in a sonth-westerly direction, al<<ig the

western side of Mount Alesium, to a place tnl'.-d

Melangkia (tA M*Aa*y?«<a), from which drinking-

water was conducted by an aqueduct to Mantineia,

of which remains were observed by Ross. It oe-

responds to tlie modern village of J'iirmi, which i*

COIN OF MAXTtXUA.

