542 PANOPEUS. 1WXN0X1A.

nonian tribes. The fact Hint must Greek writers

called them Paeonians, anil that Tacitus (Germ. 43)

speaks of the Pannonian language as different from

that of the German tribes, seems to favour the sup­

position that they were a branch of the Thracian

Paeonians, who had gradually spread to the bunks

of the Danube and the confines of Italy. It must

however be observed that Dion Cassias (xlix. 36),

who knew the people well, denies that they were

Paeonians. There can, however, be no doubt that

Celtic tribes also existed in the country, and in the

early part of the Roman empire Roman civilisation

and the Latin language had made considerable

progress. They are described as a brave and war­

like people, which, at the time when the Romans be­

came acquainted with them, lived in a very low

state of civilisation, and were notorious for cruelty and

love of bloodshed (Dion Cass. I.e.; Appian,/tfyr. 14;

Strab. vii. p. 318; .Stat. Silo. iii. 13), as well as for

faithlessness and cunning (Tibull. iv. 1. 8). Hut

since their subjugation by the Romans, the civilisa­

tion of the conquerors produced considerable changes

(Veil. Fat. ii. 110); and even the religion of the

I'annonians (some uf their gods, such as Latobias,

La bums, Chart us, are mentioned in inscriptions)

gave, way to that of the Romans, and Pannonian divi­

nities were identified with Roman ones (Spart. Sever.

15; Lamprid. Alex. 7). The Romanisation of the

country was promoted and completed by the esta­

blishment of colonies anil garrisons, so that at the

time of the migration of nations, the country was

completely Romanised.

The following art; the principal tribes noticed by

the ancients in Pannonia ; some of them, it must be

observed, arc decidedly Celtic. In Upper Pannonia

we meet with the Azali, Cytni, Boil, Cole-

T1ANI, OSERIATKS, SeKRKTES, SeRRAPILLI, SaN-

drizktes, Latobtci, and Varciani, and perhaps

also the Iapodes or Iapydes, the Colapiani and

Scordisci, though some of these latter may have

extended into Illyricum. In Lower Pannonia, we

have the Arauisci, Hercuniatae, Andi antes,

Iasii, Breitct, Amantini (Asiantes), and Cor-

nucates. Besides these, Pliny (iii. 2G) mentions

the Arivates, Bei-GITEs, and Catari, of whom it

is not known what districts they inhabited. Towns

and villages existed in tlie country in great numbers

even before its conquest by the Romans (Dion Cass.

Iv. 2**; Jornand. Get 50); and Appian's statement

(flfyr. 22), that the Pannonians lived only in vil­

lages and isolated farms, probably applies only to

some remote and more rugged parts of the country.

The most important towns were Vindobona, Car-

NI NTL'M, SCARBANTIA, SABARIA, AllKABO, PaE-

tovis, Siscia, Aemona, Naupoktus; and in

Lower Pannonia, BREOETIO, AqUINCI-M, McRSIA,

Ciralae, Acimincum, Taurunum, and Sihmium.

The history of Pannonia previous to its conquest

by the Romans, is little known. We learn from

Justin (xxiv. 4, xxxii. 3, 12) that some Celtic

tribes, probably remnants of the hosts of Brennus,

settled in the country. Most of the tribes seem to

have been governed by their own chiefs or kings.

(Veil. Pat. ii. 114; Sext. Kuf. lirev. 7; Jornand.

de iieg. Sue. 50.) The obscurity which hangs

over its history begins to be somewhat removed in

the time of the triumvirate at Koine, b.c. 35, when

Octaviauus, for no other purpose but that of giving

his troops occupation and maintaining them at tho

expense of others, attacked the Pannonians, and by

conquering the town of Siscia broke the strength uf

1 the nation. (Dion Cass. xlix. 36; Apfaaa.i%jj

13, 22, foil.) His general Yibius afterwards am*

pleted the conquest of the country. Bat c<*m*f

years after this, when a war between Marutwa^

king of the Marco manni, and the Roman* m <a Ai

point of breaking out, the Pannonian.*, toeitfatr *m

the Dalmatians and other lllyrian tribe*, ru* SI

great insurrection against their opprevwn, «d i

was not till after a bloody war of several year* •

ration that Tiberius succeeded in rwiuciug 'drc

and changing the country into a Roman \r.tr^a

A.i). 8. (Dion Cass. Iv. 24. 28, 29; Suet. /A. U

20; Veil. Pat. ii. 110, foil.) Heuctj'orta ioa

siderable army was kept in Pannonia to mcwi a

submission of the people. When the soldiers m.zM

the news of the death of Augustus, they brotf ■

in open rebellion, but were reduced by Dru=o?-

Ann. i. 15, foil. 30; Dion Cass. Irii. 4.) Iww

the first century Pannonia formed only one pnrarf

under the administration of a lieutenant of ii* «

peror. Respecting its division in the second m'^

we have already spoken. Until the time m a"

migratiou of nations, Pannonia remained a tart

the Roman empire; many colonies aiid irx-ra

were established in the country, and farirc--«s

built for its protection; military reads air** «

constructed, especially one alone the Danate. sad

second through the central part of the coaxiiry w

Vindobona to Sirmium. The Romans dju

much to civilise the Pan not dan but they at l

same time derived great benefits from tfcrm. 1

military valour of the natives was of grtw *n

to them, and formed always a considrrabi* V

tion of the Roman legions. About tiie m**ub

the fifth century Pannonia was kart to lift

in consequence of the conquests made by ii* Hi

to whom the emperor Theudmius II. wi*

formally to cede Pannonia. (Prise, £ze. « I

p. 37, ed. Paris.) On the dissolution ot ii* esfl

of the Huns by the death of Attila. th* rasa*

into the hands of the CM mouths (JtiraaneL t-tf-l

from whom it passed, about a.d. 5O0, into tV*<

the Longobardi, who in their turn had u» ffi** i

to the Avari in a.i>. 568.

The ancient authorities for the reornanhT 1

nonia arc Ptolemy (ii. 15 and 16). Pliny (a,!

Strabo (iv. p. 206, foil, t. p. 213. ML rn. f 1

foil.), Dion Cassias (xlix. 34—38, K. I

Velleius Paterenlus (ii. 110. foil), Tacitus (Am

16, foil.), Appian, Jorrmndes (U. cr.\ Aa

modem writers the following deserve to be cns&xi

Schonleben, Camiola antiyua tt tutn, and Am

Com it/he ant 'tqiuie tt tutvae, haras, 16^1.

Katanesich, Comment, in C. Piinii '11 ■■ ai i

noniam, Buda. 1829; Niebuhr, Lect cm 4ai

Hist vol. i. p. 164, toll.

PANOPEUSor PHANOTKDS (n«nrm I

Strab. Pans.; Havom}. Hes. ap. Strvh. ix. |l a

Steph. B. s.v.; Or. Met iii. 19; Stat. Tt\m\

344; nwoireai, Herod, viii. 34; taiarna

by Strab., ix. p. 423, to be its name in feu*:

but the form also occurs in Thuc. ir. 89; +mwm

Steph. B. s. p.; Phanotea, Liv. xxxii. %h •

riacoTTfus, QavoTfv?) an ancient town ctf 1**

near the frontier of Boeotia, and on tb*:

Daulis to Chaeroneia. Paus-intas smys thms 1

pens was 20 stadia from Ctiuenwia, ao^ 7"

Daulis (ix. 4. §§ 1.7); but the latter tri .'

obviously a mLtake. The mins at tu* *ti'ia

A to Vlasi (fryios BAotrn), which arr tlrar-*-

of Panopeus, arc distant about 20 Madia

