458 OASES. OASES.

KhargeX) and the Lesser (EUDakhd) were both

accounted Domes of Aegypt, we may Curly infer

that tlie ten days1 journey to Ammonium is com­

puted from one of tbem, i. e. from a point con­

sidered as proper Aegyptian ground. Now, not only

does the road from Thebes to Ammonium He through

or beside the Greater and Lesser Oasis, but their re­

spective distances from the extremities of the journey

will give nearly the number of days required. For

El-Khargth, the Great Oasis, is seven days'journey

from Thebes; and thirty hours, or(15 x 2) nearly two

days more, are required for reaching the Lesser Oasis;

from whence to Ammonium is a journey of eight

days, which, allowing two days for passing through

the Oases themsolves. give just the twenty days re-

quitiite for performing the distance. There were two

roads which led from Thebes to Oasis Magna. The

shorter one bearing N. by Abydus. the other bear­

ing S. by Latopolis. For the former forty-two

hours, for the hitter fifty-two, were required, to

reach the Great Oasis. (Cailliaud, Voyage it I Oasis

de Tkebes, 1813.) The Oasis of Ammonium is

about six miles in length, anil three in breadth. The

soil is strongly impregnated with halt of a lino

quality, which was anciently in great request, both

for religious purposes and the tables of the Persian

kings. (Arrian, Annb. iii. 41.) but notwithstand­

ing its saline ingredients, the ground is abundantly

irrigated by water-springs, one of which, "the

Fountain of the Sun," attracted the wonder of Hero­

dotus, and ancient travellers generally (iv. 1S1;

Com p. Wilkinson, Mod. Egypt and Thebes, vol. ii. p.

358). It rises in a grove of dates, S. of the Temple of

Amnion, and was probably one of those tepid springs,

found in other Oases also, the high temperature of

which is not observed during the heat of the day,

but which, by night, are perceptibly warmer than

the surrounding atmosphere. A small brook running

from this fountain flows soon into another spring,

also arising in the date-grove; and their united

waters run towards the temple, and, probably be­

cause their ancient outlets are blocked up. end in

a swamp. The vicinity of these brooks confirms the

statement of Herodotus, that in Ammonium are

many wells of fresh water (iv. 181).

The early and high cultivation of this Oasis is

still attested by the abundance of its dates, pome­

granates, and other fruits. The dates are obtained

in vast quantities, and are of very fine flavour. In

favourable seasons the whole area of Ammonium is

covered with this fruit, and the annual produce

amounts to from 5000 to 9000 camel-loads of

300 piunds each. Oxen and sheep are bred in con­

siderable numbers; but the camel di»es not thrive

in Ammonium, probably because of the dampness of

the soil. The inhabitants accordingly do not export

their own harvests, but await the caravans which

convey them to Aegypt and the Mediterranean ports.

(MinutoU, pp. 89, 90, 91, 174, 175, Sec.) The pre­

sent population of this Oasis is about 8000; but an­

ciently, when it was at once the seat of an oracle,

the centre of attraction to innumerable pilgrims, and

one of the principal stations of the Libyan land-

trade, the permanent as well as the casual population

mu^t have been much more considerable. The ruins

of the Temple of Amman are found at Umnubi'da,

sometimes called Birbe,— the Ummesogcir of Horne-

mann (7Vurt /.«, vol. i. p. 106), about 8 miles from the

principal village and castle. Its style and arrange­

ment bespeak its Aegyptiafl origin and its appropria­

tion to the worship of Amftn, the ramheaded god of

Thebes; yet the buildings (the oracle itself was mi

older) are probably not earlier than the Persian en

of Aegypt. The remains of the Ammonium oosssfl

of two jiarts — a pronaos and a sekos, or tauoonrj

proper. The walls are entirely composwi of bM

stones, obtained from quarries tbout 2 miVs off Tk

surface of the temple, both within and wiihr>Qt,n8J

covered with hieroglyphics emblematic of tbeSSB]

and transfigurations ot Zeus-Ammon. The phi

surface of the walls was hiebly coloured; m

though many of the sculptures are murh cc&tfd

the blue and green colours are btill bright. 11

temple itself was of moderate size, and tht otf

tilage or enclosure of the whole is not mure lias 7

paces in length and 66 in breadth.

The population of this Oasis was, in the

Herodotus (ii. 32), partly Aegyptian and nan

Aethiopian,—both nations agreeing in their

to Zens-Amnion. The Greeks, indeed, who

have become acquainted with Ammonium soas

their colonisation of Cyrene in the seventh «

n. c. put in their claims to a share, at hast,

foundation. According to one tradition,

a colony thither (I)iodor. xvii. 50); i

another, its oracle was established contem]

with that at Dodona, the most ancient

Greece, (llerod. ii. 54.) The name of the

Ktearchus, mentioned by Herndotna in his

the Nasamones, if the f »rm be correctly

also a Greek aspect. (Herod, ii. 32.)

be no doubt, however, that Ammonium

from the East, and not by colonist* from

the North.

At the present day El-Sitcah contains f.«r

towns, of which the principal is Ktbir; and

2 miles from Ktbir is an ancient fortrws

Shnrgith, old enough to have been ocr npissl

Roman garrison. (Minntoli, pp. 165—167).

governed by its own chiefs or shieks, wb»

small annual tribute to the viceroy of AegyyL

Oasis, though known to Arabian writers of t

teenth century a. p., was first reopened to Ei

by the travels of Browne and Hornemaxui in

century.

2. Proceeding in a BW, direction, and i

nearer to Aegypt, we come to the Oaaav

El-Furaj'rth, but of which the ancient mm

recorded. It lay nearly N. of Oasis Minor,

tance of about m> miles, and served u aa

diate station Iwth to Ammonium and Oases

3. Oasis Minor ("Ooo-ir M**prf. Pfa4. iv. 5.

ri Ztvripa, Strab. xvii. p. 813; O. Minor,/

Or. c. 143: the modern El-DaUxl\ wa

SE. of Ammonium, and nearly dae W. of

Oxvrvnehus and the Arsinotte name (

lat" 29° 1U' N. Like El SiicaA, the

contains warm springs, and is well irricaxed.

the Komnus it was celebrated for its

now its chief productions are dates, oltv«a,

nates, and other fruits. It has a temple

of the Ptolemaic era. The Lesser Oaau s

from the (ireater by a high calcareous

station between them was probably a!

temple of Ain Amour. (Cailliaud,

Oasis Minor wins to be the same with

by some Christian writers (e. p

CkrysosL p. 195) % ytfns* r«r M

"Oasa, ubi gens est Mazicorum** (J,

Patrum, c. 12), the Mazyci of the Regio

being the people indicated.

4. Oasis I kinytiieos. or the? Oasis of

