ROMA ROMA. 735

pruhnble that Suburae may be the redundant word;

unless indeed we might suppose that there were two

Fagutals or groves of Jupiter, and that Suburae was

inserted here to define the place of the one which

overhung it.

Becker regards the Septimontium not as a proper

city festival, but as commemorating traditions con­

nected with the site of Rome long previous to the

building of the city. In confirmation of this he

refers (Handb. p. 125) to a passage in Varro

(L.L.v. § 41, MUU.) and to another in Festus

(p. 321), where it is said that a people of Keate,

called Sacrani, drove the Lignriaris and Sicilians out

of Septimontium; and a third passage is adduced

from Servius (ad A en. xi. 317) to prove that the

Sicilians once occupied the site of Rome; that they

were expelled thence by the Ligurians, and the

Ligurians in their turn by the Sacrani. Now,

without entering into the historical questions con­

nected with these obscure traditions, it may be al­

lowed in general to be probable enough that such

traditions were afloat; and when, as we have ven­

tured to assume, Nnma instituted the festival, ho

made them the basis of it; just as he instituted the

Argive chapels and the twenty-four mannikins to

commemorate the tradition of the Argive chiefs and

their abolishment of human sacrifices. But the fes­

tival, nevertheless, was a proper city festival. Becker

urges (Handb. p. 124) that the Septimontium de­

scribed by Labeo could not have been in commemora­

tion of a city union immediately preceding that of

Servius, because it included the Oppins and Cispius,

which were first added to the city by Servius. A

great deal depends upon what we understand by the

words "added to the city " (" lur Studt geiogen").

To say that they were not included in the wall and

agger afterwards completed by Servius would be a

mere puerility; but they must have been inhabited

and formed part of the city before his time, since

there were Argive chapels upon them (Varr. v.

§ 50); and these chapels, as we have seen, formed

the basis of the city union formed by him. The

festival must certainly have been pott-KomuItan,

since some of the names of places where it was ce­

lebrated were not known before the time of Romulus.

Caelius occupied the Caelian hill in his reign;

the name of Germalus is said to be derived from

the twins (gennani) Romulus and Remus, who were

landed there (Varr. v. § 54); whilst Oppins and

Cispius are said by Festus (p. 348, MUII.). on the

authority of Varro, not to have been so named till

the reign of Tullus Hostilius. But as they are

mentioned by those names in tho sacred books of'

the Argives (Varr. v. § 50) it is probable that

they were so called at least as early as the time of

Noma.

Such, then, was the ancient Septimontium. The

walls of Servius included a different group of seven

hills which came to be regarded by the later Romans

as the real Septimontium. They are those already

described at the beginning of this article, namely,

the Quirinnl, Viminal, Esquiline, Caelian, Aventinc,

Capitoline, and Palatine.

» bra on a Bright Servius bad occupied a

M far from it, over the Clivus Urbiua

.; Lit. L 48), and it was probably situated at or

r spit now occupied by the church of S.

■•m. There is not the slightest ground for

in r • aaainptMn (UisL L 390) that the Fagu-

na what be calls "the plain" between the

bu iod Palatine. Tbe Cermalus or Germalus

r uririaillT e ami g were the same letter—was,

\ta Wlia, only adistinct portion of the Palatine

{"Unic (Psiatio) Cermalum et Velias con-

run," Varr. v. § 64, HUH.) Prellcr (/iegionen,

*u) wonders the Germalus to be that side of  
i'lUrine which overhangs the Velabrum between

twkni churches of 5. Giorgio in Velabro and

wrtuia; and it is not improbable, as Becker

ruiw (p. 418), that the hill formerly projected

f :u tbe W. than it now does, and descended

iii'ei or ledces. It does not appear on what

kii Virbuhr (/. c) assumed the Germalus to be

(nt nr (Ae fuol of the Palatine.'' It contained

Luptrcal, which, being a cave or grotto, must

1—ti eictrated in a bill or cliff, as indeed

| "j •tatei in his description of it: fir li rb

»», if Arjrmu tnrt\Kjcuov iiwb t£ \6<fia

(i»>

i fdaces, then, enumerated by Labeo appear

•» *m heights, with the exception of tho Su-

Boc on counting the names, we find that he

*i orht places instead of seven, or one more

* Twined to make a Septimontium. Hence  
A* (/*. p 389) omitted the Subura,— not,

•". >rtnM it was situated in the plain,— and

«V"w«d by Bonarn (BeacAr. L 141). who after-

urrad his mind, and struc k out the Caelius

* ^5): and this last opinion is also followed

* (ffawjft. p. 124) and M tiller (ad Fat.  
I) The chief reason assigned for this view is

i ]r.Kifki part of the first regio (Suburana)

>■** CwUmootium.— a name afterwards pre-

» Li.it at one of the regions of Augustus;

tv-npving this name with that of Septimon-

: ii inferred that, like tbe latter, it must have

"• ifcrioct and independent city union, and

k thtnfvf* have been included in any ante-

* nja. But if there had been any distinct  
tWndent township of this kind, we must

iai» heard of it in some of the ancient

^ ft* do not know when the term Cntii-

n riit came into use; but it is not improliablc

w from another small hill, the Caelius

* '-VUoror/i, having been annexed to the  
■ Martial mentions them both in tbe fol­

ia* >-

ban per Efnina te potentiorum

Wstrix toga ventilat, vmgumque

■ajar Caelius et minor fatigaL*—(xii. 18.)

* (ran Varro that the junction of these two  
1 '^kra place in or before his time: "Caeli-

c Caalio aw conjunctum " (i. A. v. § 46,

popular use, as we see from the lines

* ometimea still continued to regard them  
'"• *» can we tell for what purpose they

* iiUrd. Little can be inferred from tbe  
'hub the hills are mentioned in the text

a, as lata] sequence is entirely disregarded;

tilt drtu.-rntance that Cispius is called

•>!0ppiia not,unless vre leave out "Caelio;"'

■* mi viirm of Caelius in tow* of the MSS.

ti Ii^ojous. On the whole it sceuis most

IV. Progress of the City till the Time or

Augustus.

Having thus brought down the history of the city

to the foundation of the Servian walls, we shall pro­

ceed to sketch its progress to the time of Augustus,

und then till the walls of Aurelian. The former walls

marked the rise and consolidation of a city, which,

