THURII. THURII. 1193

al«o to I f nn hostile, or at least unfriendly,

nn» with Dionysius of Syracuse, and was in con-

•jmr.ce chosen as a place of retirement or exile by

> brother Lrptines and his friend Philistns (I)iod.

r. "X The rise of the Brottian people about B. a

16 probably became the cause of the complete decline

Ttarii, but the statement of Diodorua that the city

u naqucrtd by that people (xvi. 15) must be re-

with conaiderable donbt It is certain at least

n il reappears in history at a later period as an in-

jrodrnl Greek city, though much fallen from its

nner greatness. No mention of it is found during

• wus of Alexander of Epirus in this part of Italy;

1 si ■ later period it was so hard pressed by the

Iranians that it had recourse to the alliance of

roe; and a Roman army was sent to its relief

Jt C. Fabriciu*. That general defeated the

Iranians, who had actually laid siege to the city,

■ pitched battle, and by several other successes

t gnat extent broke their power, and thus re-

ted the Thurians from all immediate danger from

i:quarter. (Lir. Epit. xi.; Plin. xxxiv. 6. s. 15;

i Max. i. 8. § 6.) But shortly after they were

■fc-led on the other side by the Tarentines, who

i said to have taken and plundered their city

Ipiui, Sam*. 7. § 1); and this aggression was

'cf the immediate causes of the war declared

lie Romans against Tarentum in B. c. 282.

Thorn now sank completely into the condition of

ally of Rome, and wxs protected by a

No mention is found of its nurne

raig tat wan with Pyrrhus or the First Panic

ir. tat it plays a considerable part in that with

uimbaL It was apparently one of the cities which

idled to the Carthaginians immediately after the

i» of Cannae, though, in another passage, I.ivy

tn to place its defection somewhat later. (Liv.

i. CI, xxr. I.) But in B.C.213,the Thurians

arottl to their alliance w ith Rome, and received a

man cvriann into their city. (Id. xxt. 1.) The

y next year, however, after the fall of Taren-

a, they changed sides again, and betrayed the

man troops into the hands of the Carthaginian

srral Hai.no. (Id. xxv. 15; Appian, Harm. 34.)

few years later (b. c. 210), Hannibal, finding

unable to protect his allies in Campania, re­

nd the inhabitant* of Atella who had survived

fall of their city to Thurii (Appian, Harm. 49);

it was not long before he was compelled to

r.rlon the latter city also to its fate; and when

himself in H. c. 204 withdrew his forces into

itlium, he removed to Crotona 3500 of the prin-

citizens of Thurii, while he gave up the city it-

to the plunder of his troops. (Appian, L c 57.)

> evident that Thurii was now sunk to the lowest

it rfdecay; but the great fertility of its territory

-rtrd it desirable to preserve it from utter deso-  
ii: hence in n. c. 194, it was one of the places

wed for tbe establishment of a Roman colony

h Latin rights. (Lir. xxxiv. 53; Strab. rt p.

L) The number of colonist* was small in pro-

tun lo the extent of land to be divided among

n, bus they amounted to 3000 foot and 300

rhta. (Lit. xxxv. 9.) Livy says merely that

o4ony waa sent "in Thurinum agrom," and

i not mention anything of a change of name;

Strabo telb us that they gave to the new colony

name of Copiak, and this statement is confirmed

> by Stephanos of Byzantium, and by the evi-

■ of eoins, on which, however, the name is written

fx*. (Strab. L c; Steph. Byz. «. r. rJoopioi;

Eckhel, vol. i. p. 164.) But this new name did not

continue long in use, and Thurii still continued to

be known by its ancient appellation. It is men.

tioned as a municipal town on several occasion*

during the latter age* of the Republic. In b. c. 72

it was taken by Spartacos, and subjected to heavy

contributions, but not otherwise injured. (Appian,

B. C. i. 117.) At the outbreak of the Civil Wars

it was deemed by Caesar of sufficient importance to

be secured with a garrison of Gaulish and Spanish

horse; and it was there that M. Coeliu* was put to

death, after a vain attempt to excite an insurrection

in this part of Italy. (Can. B. C. Hi. SI, S3.) In

B. c. 40 also it was attacked by Sextos Pompcius,

who laid waste it* territory, but waa repulsed

from the walls of the city. (Appian, B. C. r.

56, 58.)

It is certain therefore that Thurii was at this

time still a place of some importance, and it is

mentioned as a still existing town by Pliny and

Ptolemy, as well as Strabo. (Strab. vi.'p. 263;

Plin. iii. ll.s. 15; ltol. iii. 1. § 12.) It was pro­

bably, indeed, the only place of any consideration

remaining on the coast of the Tarentine gulf, be­

tween Crotona and Tarentum; both Metapontum

and Heraclea having already fallen into almost com­

plete decay. Its name is still found in the Itineraries

(ftm. Ant. p. 114, where it is written u Turios;"

Tab. PeuL); and it is noticed by Procopins as still

existing in the 6th century. (Procop. B. G. i. 15.)

The period of its final decay is uncertain; but it

seems to have been abandoned during the middle

age*, when tbe inhabitanta took refuge at a place

called Terranora, about 12 miles inland, on a hill

on the left bank of the Crathis.

The exact site of Thurii has not yet been identi­

fied, but the neighbourhood has never been examined

with proper care. It is clear, from the statement*

both of biodorns and Strabo, that it occupied a site

near to, but distinct from, that of Sybaria (l)iod.

xii. 10; Strab. /. c): hence the position suggested

by some local topographers at the foot of the hill of

Terranora, is probably too far inland. It is more

likely that the true site is to be sought to the N.

of the Cotcile (the ancient Sybaria). a few miles from

the sea, where, according to Zannoni s map, ruins still

exist, attributed by that geographer to Sybaria, but

which are probably in reality those of Thurii. Swin­

burne, however, mentions Roman ruins as existing

in the peninsula formed by the rivers Crathis and

Sybaris near their junction, which may perhaps be

those of Thurii. (Swinburne, Travels, roL i. pp.

291, 292 ; Romanelli, vol. i. p. 236.) The whole

subject is very obscure, and a careful examination

of the localities is still much needed.

The coins of Thurii are of great beauty; their

number and variety indeed gives us a higher idea

of the opulence and prosperity of the city than

cow or Til D KB.

