THERA. 1159 THERA.

c a. c 23", is absurd, u tbey are mentioned t>y

sltinus and Herodotus, and must have existed even

ag before the time of those writers; but if we sup-

as; a slight error in the numerals in the text of

Imr (reading "Olympiadia exxxxv anno quarto"

Mad of " Olympiadis exxxv anno quarto"), we

irt the very year (u.c. 197) in which Eusebius

■ Justin place the appearance of Hiera. There

■ b Utile doubt, therefore, that Pliny's authorities

fend to this event, and that it was only through

aajsaness that lie spoke of the appearance of Tbera

sj Tberssia in that year. Thus the first state-

MR of Pliny may be reconciled with the accounts

Eastuiu*. Justin, and the other writers. The

Balance of the second island, to which be falsely

asters the name of lliera from the earlier occur-

Ka, must be placed in B.C. 67, according to the

meted chronology. This island no longer exists;

i it must therefore cither have been thrown up

I sfisaputared again immediately, as was the case

in the eruption of 1650, or it was simply an addition

to the ancient Hiera, of which there are some in­

stances at a later period. It ia apparently to this

eruption that the statement of Posidonius. quoted by

Seneca, refers. The last statement of Pliny that a

new island, named Tbia, was thrown up 2 stadia

from 'I liia in the consulship of M. Junius Silanus

and L. tialbus, on the 8th of July, is so exact that it

Beems hardly possible to reject it; but here again ia

an error in the date. If we take the numbers aa

they stand, tbia event would have happened in A.n.

3, or, according to the corrected numbers, in a. d. 43,

whereas we know that M. Junius Silanus and I,.

Balbus were consuls in a.i>. 19. No other writer,

however, speaks of an eruption of an island in this

year, which, if it actually happened, must again

have disappeared. Moreover, it is strange that Pliny

should have passed over the eruption of the real

Thia, or MUcra Kammeni, which occurred in his life­

time, in the consulship of Valerius Asiaticus, and in

OA

• OK TIIKKA AND THE 8l'BltOl«maO ISLAJtDSJ.

Shoal formed hjr the submarine volranic el upturn

In ISM

F.ntram-e to the crater,

t / i.ii

- 1 , i. ■ ■ and ruined rltjr. rrobablT Thera.  
In nilns at Kimari, irobably Oea.

I Prrilta.

O. C. Eromili.

H. Ruins, prohablr of Eleuslt.

K. Promontory of Sirrro.

M. Eptmomrria.

N. I. A'ofsnaoo.

4 R 4

