4 IAPYGIA. JAS0N1UM.

sascamo (Yutueh, near I'dbbia); Ct.fMnETAE

{Grarluilz\ [E. B. J.]

IAPV'GIA Clainryia), was the name given by

the Greeks to the SE. portion of Italy, bordering on

the Adriatic Sea, but the term was used with con­

siderable vagueness, being sometimes restricted to

the extreme SK. point or peninsula, called also Mcs-

sapia. and by the Romans Calabria; at other times

extended so as to include the whole of what the

Romans termed Apulia, Thus Scylax describes tbe

whole oast from I.urania to the promontory of

Drion (Mt. Gargsnus) as comprised in lapygia, and

erru includes under that appellation the cities of

Metapontum and Heraclea on tbe gulf of Tarentum,

which arc usually assigned to Lncania. Hence be

states that their coast-line extended for a space of

six days and nights' voyage. (ScyL § 14. p. 5.)

Polvhius at a Utter period used the name in an

eigiiullv extended sense, so at to include the whole

of Apulia (iii. 88), as well as the Messapian penin­

sula; but he elsewhere appears to use the name of

Iapygians as equivalent to the Roman term Apulians,

and distinguishes them from the Measapians (it

24). This is, however, certainly contrary to the

usage of earlier Greek writers. Herodotus distinctly

applies the term of lapygia to the peninsula, and

calls the Measapians an Iapygian tribe; though he

evidently did not limit it to this portion of Italy,

and must have extended it, at all events, to tbe

land of the Peucetians, if not of tbe Daunians also.

( Herod, iv. 99, vii. 170.) Aristotle also clearly iden­

tifies the Iapygiani with the Messapians (I'oL v.

3), though the limits within which be applies the

name of lapygia (lb. vii. 10) cannot be defined.

Indeed, the name of the Iapygian promontory (ji

o«va i\ larvyia), universally given to the headland

which formed the extreme point of the peninsula,

suftk iently proves that this was considered to belong

to lapygia. Strabo confines the term of lapygia to

the peninsula, and says that it was called hy some

lapygia, by others Messapia or Calabria. (Strab.

vi. pp. 281, 282.) Appian and Dionysiua I'erie-

getes, on the contrary, follow Polybius in applying

the name of lapygia to the Roman Apulia, and tbe

latter expressly says that the Iapygian tribes ex­

tended as far as Hyrium on the N. side of Mt.

Garganus. (Appian, Aim. 45; Dionys. Per. 379.)

Ptolemy, as usual, follows the Roman writers, and

adopts the names then in use for tbe divisions of

this part of Italy: hence he ignores altogether the

name of lapygia, which is not found in any Roman

writer as a geographical appellation; though the

Latin poets, as usual, adopted it from the Greeks.

(Virg. An. xi. 247; Ovid, Met. xv. 703.)

We have no clue to tbe origin or meaning of tbe

name of lapygians, which was undoubtedly given

to the pniple (Iai-voks, 'Idsvyu) before it was

applied to the country which they inhabited. Nie-

bulir (vol. i. p. 146) considers it as etymologically

connected with tbe Latin Apulia, but this is very

doubtful. The name appears to liave been a general

one, including several tribes or nations, among

which were the Measapians, Sallentiui, and Peuce­

tians: hence Herodotus calls tbe Measapians, lapy­

gians flifsvyei Mtaeiwm, vii. 170); and the two

names are frequently interchanged. The Greek

niylhngraphers, as usual, derived the name from a

hero, Iapyx, whom they represented at a son of

l.vraon, a descent probably intended to indicate the

IVLwgic origiii of the lapvgians. (Anton. Liberal.

•1; PliailL ILa, 16.) For a further account of

the national affinities of the different tribes in this

part of Italy, as well as for n description of its phy­

sical geographv, see the articles Ari'LiA and Cala­

bria. [E. H. n.]

lAPY'GHTM PROMONTO'RIUM ('Aroo lan-

71a: Capo Sta. Maria di Aeuca), a headland which

forms the extreme SE. point of Italy, as well as

the extremity of the long peninsula or promontory

that divides the gulf of Tarentum from the Adriatic

sea. It is this long projecting strip of land, com­

monly termed the ketl of Italy, and designated by

tbe Romans as Calabria, that was usually termed

by the Greeks lapygia, whence the name of the pro­

montory in question. The latter is well described

by Strabo as a rocky point extending far out to sea

towards the SE., but inclining a little towards the

Lacinian promontory, which rises opposite to it, and

together with it encloses the gulf of Tarentum. He

states the interval between these two headlands, ami

consequently the width of the Tarentine gulf, at

its entrance, at abont 700 stadia (70 G. miles),

which slightly exceeds the truth. Pliny calls the

same distance 100 M. P. or 800 stadia; but the real

distance does not exceed 66 G. miles or 660 stadia.

(Strab. vi. pp. 258, 281; Plin. iii. 11. s. 16; Pud.

iii. 1. § 13; Polyb. x. 1.)

The same point was also not nnfrcquently termed

theSalentine promontory (I'nnxoNTomcM Sai.kn-

ttni'M, Mel. ii. 4. § 8; Ptnl. £ c), from the people

of that name who inhabited the country immediately

adjoining. Sallust applies tbe same name to the

whole of the Calabrian or Messapian peninsula.

(Sail. ap. Strv. ad Am. iii. 400.) Its modem name

is derived from the ancient church of Sta. Maria di

Leuca, situated close to the headland, and which has

preserved tbe name of the ancient town and port of

Leuca; tbe latter was situated immediately on the

W. of tbe promontory, and afTorded tolerable shelter

for vessels. [Leuca.] Hence we find tbe Athenian

fleet, in B. c. 415, on its way to Sicily, touching at

the Iapygian promontory after crossing from Cor-

cyra (Thue. vi. 30, 44); and there ran be no doubt

that this was the customary course in proceeding

from Greece to Sicily. [E. H. B.]

lA'RHASl.'S ClipSarot), a river on the N. coast

of Crete, near the banks of which the Cydonians

dwelt. (Horn. Od. iii. 292.) It is identified with

the rapid stream of the Platanid, which rises in the

White Mountains, and, after flowing between the

HhiziU villages of Therito and lAIci or Ldtus, runs

through a valley formed by low hills, and filled with

lofty platanes; from which it obtains its name. Tbe

river of Plntaniii falls into the sea, nearly opposite

tlie islet of lldghiot Thtodhorot, where there is good

anchorage. (Pashley, 7"rar. voL U. p. 22 : Hock,

Krtta. voL i. pp. 23,' 384.) (E. B. J.]

IARDANLS, a river of Elia. [Phkia.]

JARZETHA. [LmrA.]

IASI. [Uean.J

JASONIUM ('laa-eVur Ptnl. vi. 10. $ 3), a town

in Margiana, at the junction of tbe Margus (.If m-oA-

db) and some small streams which flow into it. (Cf.

also Ammian. xxiii. 6.) [V. 1

JASO'NR'M (re WoVior, Plol. vi. 2. §4;

Strab. xi. p. 526), a mountain in Media, which ex­

tended in a NW, direction from the M Parai hoatras

(M. Elireml), forming the connecting link between

the Taurus and the outlying sjiurs of tlie Antitaurua.

It is placed by Ptolemy U-twicn the Orontes ami the

Coronna, [*'•]

JASU'N'IL'M ('lafafttor), a promontory on tow

