93S SCVTIIIA. SCYTHIA.

The Scythian aflinities of the Neuri are implied

rather than categorically stated; indeed, in atirtther

I»art there is the special statement that the Tyras

rises out of a great lake which separates- tlie Scythian

and Neurid Countries (ryv ZxvdtKijv teal tt/c Neu-

ptba yT)f). This, however, must not be made to

prove too touch; since the Scythians that WW

conterminous with the Neuri were known bj no

special name, but simply by the descriptive term

Scythae Aroteres. [Kxampaeus; Nbubl] In

iSiberiati geography Xarytn = marsh. Hence Xeuri

may b<" a Scythian gloss. There may also have been

more Neuri than one, e. g. on the Xnn/m of the head­

waters of tho Dnieper, i.e. of Pittsk. A fact in

favour of the Neuri being Scythian is the following.

The occupants of I'uUujnui, when its history com­

mences, which is as late as the 13th century, are of

the same stock with the Scythians, i. e. Cumanian

Turks. Not only is there no evidence of their iutro-

duction being recent, hut the name Omani (Xygu

Omani) appears about the same parts in Ptolemy.

East of the Borysthenes the Agricultural Scythae

occupy the country as far as the Panticapet, 3 days

distant. Northwards they extend 11 days up the

Ilorysthenes, where they are succeeded by a desert;

the desert by the Androplia^'i, a nation peculiar

and by no means Scythian (c. 19). Above the

Androphagi is a desert.

The bend of the Dnieper complicates the geo­

graphy here. It is safe, however, to make Kka-

terinoslav the chief Georgic area, and to add to it

parts of Kiev, K/ierson, and 2\>ltara, the agricul­

tural conditions increasing as we move northwards.

The two deserts (^prjaoi) command notice. The

fir>t is, probably, a March or political frontier, such

its the old Suevi used to have between themselves

and neighbours; at least, there is nothing in the

Conditions of the soil to make it a natural one. It

is described as tytjuos ^tt! roAAoV. The other is

ip^fios a\t}8iws, — a distinction, apparently, of some

value. To be natural, however, it must be inter­

preted forest rather than steppe. Kursk and Tsher-

niyov give us the area of the A:)dn>phagi; Kursk

having a slight amount of separate evidence iu fa­

vour of its having been " by no means Scythian"

(c. 18).

The Uylaea, or wooded district of the Lencer

Dnii-per, seems to have bean common ground to the

Scythae Georgi and Scythae Nomades; cr, perhaps,

it was uninhabited. The latter extend 14 days east­

ward, i. e. over Taurida, part of Ekateriwslar, and

Don Kosuks, to the Gerrhus.

The Palaces (to aaAetfyieni f3a.ai\i)ia) succeed;

their occupants being the Royal Scythians, the best

anil most numerous of the name, who look upon the

others as their slaves. They extend, southwards,

into the Crimea (ri)v TauptK-rji'), and, eastwards, as

far as the ditch dug by the offspring of the blind

slaves (the statement that the Scythians blinded

their slaves on account of the milk being one of

the elements of the strange Servile legend previously

noticed), and the Maeotie Emporium called Kremni.

Some touch the Tanais.

North of the Royal Scythians lie the Melanchlaeni

(a probable translation of Karakatpak = black

bonnet), a different nation and not Scythian (c. 20),

with marshes, and either a desert or a terra incog-

liita above them. This distinction is, almost cer­

tainly, real. At the present moment a population,

to all appearances aboriginal, and neither Slavonic

nor Scythian (but Ugrian or Finn), occupies parts of

Feuza and Tainloc having, originally, rrtod-ji

further west and further sooth. Tolbeimaut

forest districts attain their nannin defeaeawaV

[Mklanchlaf.ni.] The Boyal Scrthiaai car

have occupied parts of Voronezh.

Kast of the Tanais it was do hnrer Smba, aw

the Admits of the Sauromatae. [See S^rawum;

BUDLNI; GbLOXI; ThYSSAGETAE. 1 '■- Ifct

want of definite boundaries makes it 6j&mll II

say where the lurcae end. Beyond then t» an

east lay other Scythians, who, ha ring rrrolirt BeSjl

the Royal, settled there. Up to their distnrti SSL

soil was level and deep, beyood it nujb a-iaaf,

with mountains beyond. These are ocrapwd fcft

nation of Bald-heads, Hat-nosed and bt*rU<d,Snw;

thians in dress, peculiar in language, collect**sTM

substance called &trxv a tree called ia '■»*>

(c.23). Their flocks and herds are few; thririaewsJJ

so simple that noone injures their?, &c [Aa&irriaw

IsSEDONES; HvrEKBOKEI; AEISLVSPt.] is UW

parts about the mountains of Uie Argippta ad

was carried on by means of seven interpreter*. I

this be the caravan trade of Ortnburff, nesrSBl

minus on the Volga, and we shall nod tiatsrw,

about the number of languages thai coaid St I

present moment be brought together a; t tat

the centre uf Orenburg. For the moiera I

sian take the language uf the SmrouWae: fir!

Scythian that of the modern Tartars. To lass

can add four Ugrian forms of speech,— the X

wash, the Mordwin, the Tshereruisa, and the Vs

with the two forms of speech akin to theOatisI

I'ennian to choose the fifth fnim. The Tsbjwei

Kazan and the Bashkirs of Omtbmry a*** ■

characters at the present time,—Turk and Can

lit vers. —The chief river of the Him « —

thiawas the Ister [Dandbics], with its £r*mm

and then the Tyras (Dniester), the Hypaais (at

the Borysthenes (Dnieper), the Panttcapes [saeaM

theHypacyris [seeCARCWA], theGen-bus [*•**■

and the Tanais (Don); the feeders of* the btivfl

the rivers of the present Danubian rViiiaaaSas

being the Fcrata (Scythic. in Greek ParecasM

Tiarantos, the Aran*, the N'aparis, and the tkwam

(cc. 47, 43). To these add, from the conatrySaJ

Agatbyrsi, the Maris (c. 49), or modern JfavefJ

Transylvania. The difference betweea the assfl

and modem names of rivers is nowhere greaawfl

here,—the Mams being the only name djw Sam

which represents the original one; unless we ekm

to hold that, word for word. Aluta = Ararat Saw

for word, indeed, Xaparis is Dnieper; but tawew

rivers are different. This creates a gra%e diAaw

in the determination of the language to waabaj

names of the Scythian rivers sJraold he reaasl

Yet the question is important, inasmuch aw

the names, as they come down to us, we Bawl

many glasses of some lai.guage or other. Ufssaw

whole, however, the circumstances under — t

reached Herodotus suggest the notion thai taawl

Scythian: e. g. the express statement tnoi f3

is a Scythian form. Again; Hypsuiis is, wwav

word, Kuban.— a word of which the anpeasWafl

both Asia and Europe is best explained br ^oassaj

it to be Scythian. On the other hand, tbew saw

little significant in the language which. «aass|

tho^e at present existing. Lest explains tl*r wssswasi

Scythian glosses, as they are in the Siawjc, tA)

or (Jreek.

The jihysical ge*>graphy of Herndotean $+fd

was a steppe, with occasional distrkia (i hasla m\\

