SMYRKAEUS SINUS. 1017 SODOM.

a'iooH of their city, on the little river Meles,

Mr (lie poet wu mud to have composed his works,

mas was at all times not only a great commercial

Kt. bat its schools of rhetoric and philosophy also

n in great repute. Tbe Christian Church also

trubxl through tbe zeal and care of its first

ttop Polycarp, who is said to have lieen put to

eta is the stadium of Smyrna in A. D. 166 (Imi.

p. 176). Under the Byzantine emperors the city

wvored great vicissitudes: having been occupied

Tzachas, a Turkish chief, about the close of the

!i century, it was nearly destroyed by a Greek

it, commanded by John Uucas. It was restored,

itw, by tbe emperor Comncnus, but again sub-

lid to severe Bufterings during the siege of Ta-

rlsm. Not long after it fell into the hands of

• Turks, who have retained possession of it ever

■a It is now the great mart of the Levant

■V Of Ohl Smyrna only a few remains now

a m the north-eastern side of the bay of Smyrna;

> tsBi of the acropolis are in the ancient Cyclopean

». The ancient remains of New Smyrna are

ft numerous, especially of its walls which are of

Usl and massive construction; of the stadium

«•*» the western gate and the sea, which, how-

ir, is stripped of its marble seats and decorations;

i of the theatre on the side of a hill fronting the

'These and other remains of ancient buildings

rt teen destroyed by the Turks in order to obtain t he

tenaU for other buildings; but numerous remains

ncient art have been dug out of tbe ground at

Traa. (Chandler's Travtli in Atia, pp. 76, 87;

inch, DaJacirdigkeittH, i. p. 515, foil.; Ha­

iti. Kttmrches, i. p. 46, foil.; Sir C. Fellows,

■ Jfiior, p. 10, foil.) [L. S.]

COM OV UIVK.VA.

MYRNAECS SINUS (Zuvpvalwv *f*A»o*), also

a! the bay of Ilermus ("Ep>j<<o! aoAiroi). from

irm Hrrmus, which flows into it, or the bay of

■ (MfAtjrev k.\ from the little river Melc*, is

hay at tbe head of which Smyrna is situated.

« its entrance to tbe head it is .350 suulia in

ism, hut is divided into i larger und a smaller

a, which hare been formed by the deposits of tlie

ssas, which hare at the same time much nar-

<t the whole bay. A person sailing into it

•a kk right the promontory of Celacnae, and on

kA the headland of Phocaea; the central part of

hay contained numerous small islands. (Strab.

645; I'omp. Mela, i. 17; VU. Hum. 2;

Li.lt Ju.v.a ) [L. S-]

DUUIAS (Zodi-af, Ptol. vii. 4. § 3), a small

tef Taprobane (Ceyfon). which floweii into the

en the western aide of the island. I.asson (in

Mf) calls it tbe Kitau. On its banks lived a

at of tbe same name, the Soani. (I'tol. vii.

9.) [V.]

OAKDA or SOANPUM (2<W8a or Zduvoov),

MTIe of Cappawiocia, between itieruui and

ruav (Strab. xiv. p. 663; IL Ant. p. 202.) Tbe

same place seems to be Alluded to by Frontinus (iii.

2. § 9), who calls it Suenda, Hamilton {Researches,

ii. p. 286, foil.) identifies it with Ssoghanli Dete, a

plare situated on a rock, about 8 miles on the

south-west of Karahissar, but other geopraphers

place it in a different locality. [L. S.]

SOAS. [SoNtTS.]

SOATRA (2daTpo), or probably more correctly

Savatra (Zaittrpa), as the name appears on coins,

was an open town in Lycaonia, in the neighbour-

Irood of Apameia Cibotus, on the road from thence

to Laodiceia The place was badly provided with

water (Strab. xiv. p. 668; Ptol. v. 4. § 12; Hierocl.

p. 672; Tab. Pent ), whence travellers are inclined

to identify ita site with the place now called Su Ver­

mes*, that is, " there is no water here." [L. S-]

SOATRAE, a town in Lower Moesia {/tin. Ant.

p. 229), variously identified with Pravadi and

Kiopikeni. In the Tab. Pent, and by tire Geogr.

Rav. (iv. 6) it is called Scatrae [T. U. P.]

SOBU'RA (Zo&u'pa* ifurSpioi V a place on the

eastern coast of Jlindostan, mentioned in the Pert-

plus (p. 34). It is probably the same as the modern

Sabras, between Pundichtrry and Madras. (See

I^asscn's map.) [V.]

SOCANAA or SOCANDA {XccKovia or 2«koV-

5a), a small river of Hyrcania, noticed by Ttolemy

(vi. 9. § 2). It is probably the present Gurgan. Am-

mianus Marcellinus sjteaks of a place called Socun-

da, on the shores of the Uyrcanian or Caspian sea

(xxiii. 6). [V.]

SO'CRATIS I'NSULA {^pdrovs rh<ro\), an

island of the Sinns Arabicus {Red Sea), placed by

Ptolemy (vi. 7. § 44), who alone mentions it, in

long. 70°. fat 16° 40', and therefore off tire N. coast

of his Klisari, the Sabaei of other geographers.

30* east of his Accipitrum Insula {'Upixwv) and

2° 20' south of Uiem. They are probably identical

with the Farsan islands, of the E. I. Company's

Chart, described by commanders Moresby and Elwon,

in their Sailing Directions for the Red Sea, as " the

largest all along this coast, situated upon the ex­

tensive banks west of Gheesan. They are two in

number, but may be considered as forming oi

island, being connected by a sandy spit of shoal-

water, across which camels frequently pass from

one to the other." The westernmost is Farsan

Ktbeer{= the greater), 31 miles in length, extend­

ing from Iat, 16° 35' long. 42° 13' to lat 16° 54'

long. 41° 47'. Farmn Seggeer (=the smaller) is, on

its NK. side, 18 miles in length, and extends to lat.

17° H': their whole breath is only 12 miles. The

land is of considerable height, interspersed with some

plains and valleys: the hilly parts are coral rock (pp.

38,39; C.Muller, Tabulae in Geog. Grtiec. iVm.tah.

viii). In other comparative atlases, adopted by

Arrowsmith, the modern name is given as Kvfvmbul

/«., considerably tothe N.of the Farsan,described by

the same writers as lyiug only 2 miles from the

main, a small island about \ a mile in length and

therefore not likely to have been noticed by Ptolemy,

who obviously mentions only the more important.

{Sailing Directions, p. 50.) Mannert identities the

Socratis Insula with NiebuliVs Firan, where the

traveller says the inhabitant* of Loheia have a pearl

fishery. This name does not occur in the "Sailing

Directions," but is probably the same as Farsan.

(Mannert, Geographic von Arabien, p. 49; Niebuhr,

Description de CArabie, p. 201.) [G. W.]

SOCUNPA. [Socanaa.]

SODOM (fa 2<tfo/.a)Strab.xv.p. 764; Steph. 11.

