PALAETYRUS. 53.3 PALICORUM LACUS.

He calls it Palaestina of Syria, otherwise

Judaea, and describes it as bounded by Syria

oc the Bonn, by Arabia Petraea on the east and

Independently of the coast of the Mediter-

be reckons the districts of Galilee, Samaria,

and Idumaea, bat describes the Peraca, by a

arrpbnuii. as the eastern side of Jordan, which may

feaaJy that the name was no longer in vogue. He

— ■■ also the principal cities of these several

AriaiBas (v. 16).

The most valuable contributions to the ancient

Cncranhy of Palestine are those of Eusebius and

hat penmen tator S. Jerome, in the Onomasticon,

owipceed by the former, and translated, with im-

agraat additious and corrections, by the latter, who

has aaw> interspersed in his commentaries and letters

aawwosa geographical notices of extreme value.

TWy ate Dot, however, of such a character as to be

■■■id si under this general article, but are fully

•serf anrfer the names of the towns. See. (See

Isaii Paiaest. lib. ii. cap. 12, pp. 479, &c)

h rwnaine only to add a few words concerning

tfc» partition of Palestine into First, Second, and

Tani which is first found at the commencement of

- *.-:. ■ e: of t he Christian cm, in the Oodf of  
Taeedaaine (a. d. 409); and this division is observed

to that day in the ecclesiastical documents of the

Chnrrh, by which it was adopted from the

ae it is recognised in the Notitiae, political and

ti the fifth and following centuries,

fairy by firlend, / c. capp. 34,35, pp. 204—

In this division Palaestina Prima compre-

the old divisions of Judaea and Samaria;

Secnnda,tbe two Galilees and the western

; Palaestina Tertia, otherwise called

wnnea end Arabia Petraea; while the

of the ancient Peraea was comprehended

une of Arabia.

Kirce* of geographical information for

> Car too numerous for citation, it may

tm refer to the copious list of authors appended

fesohweas invaluable work (BibL Res. vol. iii.

A., pp. 1—28), end to the still more

of Carl Kilter (Erdhmde. Polos-

ft. 1 AbC I860, pp. 23—91), who in his

the peninsula of Mount Sinai,

■4 Syria, has with his u>ual ability

and digested the voluminous records

completely exhausted a subject

odd oenreely be touched within the limits

tn a general article in such a work as the

[0. W.]

nana [tt«l«.]

SC!> (n«Aa^»of, ScjfL p. 10), * river of

which flowed into the sea near Kpidam-

rircr bai been identified with ttie Pa-

()tm 4k*.. Ptol. iii. 13. § 3); but

better with the (taisis

i): the Palamnus is probably the

or Spirnatia, to the S uf Iht-

[K B. J.]

\> (S naAaVSai). a small stream

by Ptolemy in the Chersoncsus Aurea

It u suppoeed by Forbigcr that it is

a* that which tlows into the gulf of Mar-

Tarv*. Ptolemy notices also a town in

which be calls Palanda (vii.

[v.]

in the nou'-h of Germany, on

the Alenuuini and Burgnndii;

jlpf CspeiUtiuin; but as it is men-

tioned onlj by Ammianus Marcellinns (xriii. 2). it

is impossible with any degree of certainty to iden­

tify it. | [.. S.

PALATIUM. a place in the Rhaetian Alps, on

the road from Tridentum to Verona, still bears its

ancient name in the form of Palazzo. (It. Ant.

p. 275.) [L.S.]

PALE (IldA*: Eth. naAely, IlaA^j, Time; Pa-

lenses: the city itself is usually called noAeiy:

also i} Tla\ai*uv *6\ts, Polyb. v. 3), a town in

Cephallenia on the eastern side of a bay in the

north-western part of the island. It is first men­

tioned in the Persian wars, when two hundred of its

citizens fought at the battle of Plataea, alongside of

the Leucadians and Anactorians. (Herod, ix. 28.)

It also sent four ships to the assistance of the

Corinthians against the Corey wans just before the

commencement of the Peloponnesian War (Time. L

27); from which circumstance, together with its

fighting alcng with the Corinthian Leucadiuns and

Anactorians at the battle of Plataea, it hits U-t-n

conjectured that Pale was a Corinthian colony.

But whether this was the case or not, it joined the

Athenian alliance, together with the other towns of

the island, in B.C. 431. (Time. ii. 30.) At a later

period Pale espoused the side of the Aetolians against

the Achaeans, and was accordingly besieged by

Philip, who would have taken the city but for the

treachery of one of his own officers. (Pol. v. 3, 4.)

Poly hi us describes Pale as surrounded by the t-ea,

and by precipitous heights on every side, except the

one looking towards Zacyntbus. He further states

that it possessed a fertile territory, in which a con­

siderable quantity of corn was grown. Pale sur­

rendered to the Romans without resistance in B. c.

189 (Liv. xxxviii. 28); and after the capture of

Same by the Romans in that year, it became the

chief town in the island. It was in existent e in the

time of Hadrian, in whose reign it is called in an

inscription 4\§v$tpa teal aurovofios. (Bockh, laser.

No. 340.) According to Phcrecydes, Pale wa> the

Homeric Dulichium: this opinion was rejected by

Strabo (x. p. 456), but accepted by Pausanias (vi.

15. § 7>

The remains of Pale are seen on a small height,

about a mile and a half to the north of the modern

LixurL Scarcely anything is left of the ancient

city; but the name is still retained in that of Pulio

and of Paliki, the former being the name of the

plain around the ruins of the city, and the latter

that of the whole peninsula. (Leake. Northern

Greece, vol. iii. p. 64.)

COIN OF PALE.

PALFURIA'NA, a town of Hispania Tarmco--

nensis, by Ukert (vol. ii. pt. i. p. 420) and others

placed in the territory of the Ilereaones; by Eor-

biger (vol. iii. p. 73) in that of the Co-«tar.i. It

was on the road from Rarcinn to Tarraco, and is

usually identified with VendrelL (Marra, I/isp. ii.

c 11. p. 141; Florei, Esp.S. xxiv. 43.) [T.H.D.]

PALICO'lU'M LACUS (h twc HoAtW Al>nj:

Lago di Xaftia), a small volcanic lake in the it,in­

terior of Sicily, near PaLujvnia, about Iff miles W.

KM I

