LYCIA. LYCIA. 225

its rotes; tuition and other public duties were

regulated on the same principle. In former times,

the deputies constitu: ing the congress had also de­

cided upon peace, war, and alliances; but this of

course ceased when Lycia acknowledged the supre­

macy of Rome. This happy constitution lasted

until the time of the emperor Claudius, when

Lvcia became- a Roman province, as is mentioned

below. (Strab. xiv. p. 664, &c.) The laws and

customs of the Lycians arc said by Herodotus to

hive been partly Carian and partly Cretan; but in

one point they differed from all other men, for they

derived their names from their mothers and not

from their fathers, and when any one was asked to

give an account of his parentage, he enumerated his

mother, grandmother, great grandmother, &c, (Herod,

i. 173.) Herudotus (vii. 92), in describing their

armour, mentions in particular, hats with plumes,

preaves, short swords, and sickles. Respecting the

religion of the Lycians nothing is known, except

that they worshipped Apollo, especially at Patara;

but nhether tliis was the Greek Apollo, or a Lycian

god identified with him, cannot be said with cer­

tainty; though the former is more probable, if we

attach any value to the story of Patarus. [jWct of

B'ttj>jr. s. t\] This would show that the Greeks of

A^ia Minor exercised considerable influence upon

the Lycians at a very early period.

5. Literature and the A rts. — Although we hare

do mention of any works in the Lycian language, it

cannot be doubted that the Lycians either had, or

at least might have had, a literature, as they had a

peculiar alphabet of their own, and made frequent

im of it iu inscriptions. The mere fact, however,

that many of these inscriptions are engraven in two

languages, the Lycian and Greek, shows that the

litter language had become so familiar to the people

that it was thought desirable, or even necessary, to

employ it along with the vernacular in public decrees

and laws about and after the time of the Persian

wars; and it must have been this circumstance that

stopped or prevented the development of a national

literature in Lvcia. The influence of Greek litera­

ture is also attested by the theatres which existed

in almost every town, and in which Greek plays

nmst hare been performed, and have been under­

stood and enjoyed by the people. In the arts of

sculpture and architecture, the Lycians attained a

<!«»rt* of perfection but little inferior to that of the

Greeks. Their temples and tombs abound in the

finest sculptures, representing mythological subjects,

or events of their own military history. Their

architecture, especially that of their tombs and

harcophagi. has quite a peculiar character, so much

» that travellers are thereby enabled to distinguish

whrther any given place is really Lycian or not.

These sarcophagi are surmounted by a structure

with painted arches, and richly decorated with sculp­

tors. One of these has been brought to this country

by Sir C. Fellows, and may now be seen in the

bViti&h Museum. The entrances of the numerous

lumbs cut in the faces of lofty rocks are formed in

the same way, presenting at the top a pointed arch,

wbich has led Sir C. Fellows to compare them to

Gothic or Elizabethan architecture. If we examine

the remains of their towns, as figured in the works

of SirC. Fellows, Texier, and Forbes and Spratt, we

cannot avoid coming to the conclusion that, in all the

arts of civilised life, the Lycians, though barbarians,

were Utile interior to the Greeks.

6. llutory.—Lvcia and the Lycians act rather a

VOL. II.

prominent part in the Homeric account of the Trojan

War, where they are described as the allies of the

Trojans. Sarpedon and Glaucus, are the two

Lycian heroes in the war; but the poet was familiar

also with the earlier legends of Lycia,—as that about

Bellerophon, which he introduces into the parley

between Glaucus and Diomede. Pandarus, another

hero on the side of the Trojans, came from a district

about the river Aesepus, which was likewise called

Lycia, and which was supposed by the ancient com­

mentators to have been peopled by colonists from

Lycia, the subject of this article (//. ii. 824, &c, iv.

91, v. 105; comp. Strab. xii. p. 572, xiii. p. 585);

but both history and tradition are silent as to the

time when, and the circumstances under which,

Lycians settled in Troas. During the period from

the Trojan times down to the Lydian conquests

under Croesus, the Lycians are not mentioned in

history ; but that conqueror, who was successful in

all other parts of Asia Minor, failed in his attempts

npon the Lycians and Cilicians. (Herod, i. 28.)

When Cyrus overthrew the Lydian monarchy, and

his genera] Harpagus invaded the plain of the

Xanthus, the Lycians offered a determined resis­

tance; but when, in the end, they found their

situation hopeless, the men of Xanthus assembled in

the citadel their women, children, slaves, and trea­

sures, and then set fire to it. They themselves then

renewed the fight against the enemy, but all perished,

except a few Xanthians who happened to be absent

during the battle. [Xanthus.] Lycia thus became

a part of the Persian monarchy, but, like all Per­

sian provinces, retained its own constitution, being

obliged only to pay tribute and furnish its contin­

gents to the Persian army. The Lycians joined in

the revolt of the Asiatic Greeks, but afterwards were

reduced, and Darius made the country a part of his

first satrapy(Herod.iii.90); thefact that the Lycians

furnished fifty ships to the fleet of Xerxes (Herod, vii.

92) shows.that they still continued to be a prosperous

and powerful people. Their armour on that occasion

is described by Herodotus, and was the same as that

noticed above. During the Peloponnesian War the

Lycians are not mentioned; but as Rhodes was tri­

butary to Athens, and as contributions were often

levied as far as Aspendus, it is not improbable that

Lycia may have been compelled to pay similar con­

tributions. Alexander traversed a part of the

country on his march from Caria into Pisidia and

Phrygia, and reduced it under his sway. The

Lycians on that occasion offered little or no resist­

ance to the young conqueror; the cities of Xanthus,

Pinara, Patara, and about thirty other smaller towns,

surrendered to him without a blow. (Arrian, Anab.

i. 24.) In the division of the Macedonian empire,

Lycia successively came under the dominion of the

Ptolemies and the Seleucidae; and then, after a brief

interval, during which the Lycians enjoyed their

full freedom, they fell under the dominion of Rome:

for after the defeat of Antiochus the Great, Lycia

was ceded by the Roman senate to the Rhodians;

but the Lycians, indignant at being considered the

subjects of the islanders, and being secretly sup­

ported by Eumenes, resisted the Rhodian authorities

by force of arms. In this contest they were over­

powered; but the Romans, displeased with the Rho­

dians for their conduct in the Macedonian War,

interfered, and restored the Lycians to independence.

(Polyb. xxii. 7, xxiii. 3, xxvi. 7, xxx. 5; Lir. xlv.

25; Appian, Mithr. 61, &c, Sgr. 44.) It was

apparently during the period which now followed,

Q

