POECILASIUM. POLA. 643

peat /WiJorjr (written in the Tamil language

/Vla-Wfrji). Ptolemy mentions another place of

■ *n» mat in the northern port of the bland of

lyniau (rii. «. § 10). [V.]

POECILASrU SI, POECtLASSUS (noiKiAnW,

fninll5.§3; ntxiXturoot.Stadium. HogniMar.

iJ/V.rJ. Hoffmann), a town on the S. coast of Crete,

fW by Ptolemy E. of Tarrba, between this plate

cMU'jmm.mtTvllerrnaea; but in the Stadiasrnus

■ "f Tirrijj, between this place and Syia, 60 stadia

'•« ibr former ami 50 from the latter. It is prc-

Uk'itprented bjtbe rains near Trypete,situated

Win the places mentioned iu the Stadiasrnus.

Twin. Crete, vol ii. p. 264.)

PuECILE (IloutiXT)), a rock on the coast of Ci-

irn. Mr tie mouth of the Calycadnus, and on the

M <i Capo Sarpedon, across which a flight of steps

It in the r.., led from Cape Zephyrium to Seleuceia.

5e»k. bt. p. 670; Sladiasm. Mar. M. § 161.)

■ Intaaa of 40 stadia from the Calycadnus will

tn I about Pmhendi. Instead of any steps in

k wk, Beaufort here found extensive ruins of a

■Wi town, with temples, arcades, aqueducts, and

bout round a small level, which had some

•moe* of having once been a harbour with a

r"" "peeing to the sea. An inscription copied

P»«t.irt from a tablet over the eastern gate of

"w accounts for the omission of any notice of

• ton by Strata and others; for the inscription

to it to bare been entirely built by Fluranius,

toi «f the eparchia of I sauna, in the reigns of

•*»«. Valens, and Gratian. [L. S.]

PUIWLUM (n»«i'AoF, l'aos. i. 37. § 8). a

asm ia Attica, on tlie Sacred Way. [See Vol.

► tts.a.]

MMCCU [Pkucetti.]

IWUICI'M (riotJuroV), a place mentioned only

rV**i» (ii. U. § 3) as situated in the south-

IrfSorirum; it is commonly identified with the

(■-! l-lrltbrrg. on the river I'oijL [L. S.]

WrXSSA [CB..S.]

W3USB7TUS (noi^a»B»<ij), a town in the

■ ^ Cjaetm, and on the south-west of lake

•2*. which is mentioned only by very late

b». It belonged to the territory of Cyzicus,

•J (alhW. and possessed a celebrated temple

i»*>i«a (Steph. B. «. r. iTouiaWoi'; Nicet.

■> Chm. p. 296; Concil. Constant. III. p.

: C*oJ. Xicaen. IL p. 572; Hierocl. p. 662,

^•t ■ called Poemanentus.) Its inhabitants are

'IViianrni (T\ot^ana*ui, Plin. v. 32). Ha-

■'.'•'•iewreiej, ii. p. 108. &c.) identities it with

Mtmiyas, near 11 : lake bearing the same

L p. s.]

P>L fCAI.TTf.%CO.]

■M'XAE AI.PES. [Auks, p. 108, a.]

Via [Pbtovio.]

■"V [Inotznt.]

"U (OiXa: Eth. XIo\Jltvs: Polo), one of

P^'l*' towns of Istria, situated near the S.

*J <i that peninsula, on a landlocked buy,  
m sa oortlrat port, whirh was called the

iNauraa. (MeLii. 3. § 13.) According to

a~_t wUm! by several ancient authors, its

w» ascribed to a band of Colchians, who

Pa anker ia punoit of Medea, and afterwards

■ U» eeuntry. (Strab. i. p. 46, v. p. 216;

?'»■ a 23; Mel. I c; Tzetz. ad Lyeopkr.

■ f iaposaible to explain the origin of

nentioncd by Callimachus

jiiav be received as proving

»uirh ij already mentioned by Callimachus

*»kle.); but it I

that the city was considered as an ancient one, and

certainly existed before the Roman conquest of Istria

in is. c. 177, though its name is not mentioned on

that occasion. It was undoubtedly the advantages

of its excellent port that attracted the attention of

the Romans, and led Augustus to establish a colony

there, to which he gave the name of Pietas Julia.

(Mel. L c.; Plin. iii. 19. s. 23.) Several of the still

existing remains prove that he at the same time

adorned it with public edifices; and there is no

doubt that under the Roman Empire it tiecaine a

considerable and flourishing town, and, next to

Tergeste (7>m'*/c), the most important city of Istria.

(Strab. /. c.; Ptol. iii. 1. §27; Gruter, /titer.

p. 263. 7, p. 360. 1, p. 432. 8.) It is mentioned in

history as the place where Crispus, the eldest son

of Constantino the Great, was put to death by order

of his father; and again, in A. I>. 354, the Caesar

Gallus underwent the same fate there by order of

Constantius. (Ammian. Marc xiv. 11.) After the

fall of the Roman Empire in the West it continued

to be a place of importance, and in A. D. 544 it was

there that Belisarius assembled the fleet and army

with which he was preparing to cross over to Ra­

venna, (Procop. B. C. iii. 10.) It probably partook

of the prosperity which was enjoyed by all Istria

during the period that Ravenna became the seat of

empire, and which was continued throughout the

period of the Kxarchatc; we learn from the Itineraries

that it was connected by a road along the coast with

Tergeste, from which it was 77 miles distant, while

the direct communication by sea with Indent (/Jara)

seems to have been in frequent nse, though the

passage was 450 stadia, or 56 Roman miles, (//in.

Ant. pp. 271,496.)

Pola is remarkable for the importance and pre­

servation of its ancient remains. Of these by far

the most important is the amphitheatre, one of the

most interesting structures of the kind still extant,

and remarkable especially for the circumstance that

the external circumference, usually the part which

has suffered the most, is in this case almost entirely

perfect. It is built on the slope of a hill, so that on

the E. side it has only one row of arcades, while on

the opposite side, facing the bay, it has a double tier,

with an additional story above. It is 436 Engfoh

feet in length by 346 in breadth, so that it exceeds in

size the amphitheatre of Nismet, though considerably

smaller than that at Verena. But its position and

the preservation of its more architectural portions

render it far more striking in aspect than either of

them. Considerable remains of a theatre were also

preserved down to the 17th century, but were

destroyed in 1636, in order to make use of the ma­

terials in the construction of the citadel. There

still remain two temples; one of which was dedicated

to Home and Augustus, and though of small size, is

of very elegant design and execution, corresponding

to the Augustan ape, at which period it was un­

doubtedly erected. It has thence become a favourite

model for study with Italian architects from the

time of l'alladio downwards. The other, which was

consecrated to Diana, is in less complete preservation,

and has been converted into a modern habitation.

Besides these, the Porta Aurea, a kind of triumphal

arch, but erected by a private individual of the

name of Sergius, now forms the S. gate of the city.

Another gate, and several portions of the ancient

walls arc also preserved. The whole of these monu­

ments are built of the hard white limestone of the

country, closely approaching to marble, which adds

T T 2

