ROMA. ROMA. 815

hriagttalht temple of PvuicmA Patricia, it

r.tk it objecwd that there was in fact no such

top*, avi that we are to assume only a statue

<rj aa ilur (Stelae, Gach. d. S.Rom, i. p. 365).

ri.u Better remarks (llaiulb. p. 4S0, note 100),

Lm himxJf (i. 23) not only calls it a taceltum, a

uu Jim applied to small temples, but even in

the same chapter designates it as a templum (" Quum

se Virginia, et patriciam ft pudicam in Patriciae

Pudicitiae templum ingrcssam vero gloriaretur ");

and Propertius (ii. 6. 25) also uses the same ap­

pellation with regard to it On the other hand

some have fixed on S. Maria in Cotmedin as tho

site of this temple, but with little appearance of

tevpi.k of PTTDicrnA rATnu iA.

laUirr. Becker seeks in the church just

as tU temple of Fortuna built by Sen'ius

fa a the Forum Boarium. The church appears

•*» V*n erected on tbe remains of a considerable

p* of which tight columns are still perceptible,

I Mi lie walls. This opinion may be as pro-

lit say other on the subject; but as on the one

L from oor otter ignorance of the site of the

■a, n are unable to refute it, so on the other

■Bt nmttm that Becker's long and laboured

ftnt od the subject is fur from being convincing

•At tal.seq). The site of the Temple of

n MiTLTA is equally uncertain. All that we

> ttaut it is that it was founded by Servius

H sad restored by Camillus after the conquest

i(Lrt. t. 17), and that it lay somewhere on

■« B.«nom (Orid, fail. vi. 471). If we

Maal to conjecture, we should place both it and

wait of Fortuna near the northern boundary

■ Win; as Liry a description of tbe ravages

■rv by the fire in that quarter seems to indicate

bij lay at no great distance within the Porta

(xi.r. 47, xxv. 7). The.later history

Inaples is unknown.

aFonun Barium, near the mouth of the

■ also the place called DoUOLA,

■ the former part of this article as re-

religioa* awe on account of some sacred

Wen boned there, either during the

(flat Gauls, or at a still more ancient period,

Varr. L.L. r. § 157, Mull.) When

aX)ACA MAXIMA.

tho Tiber is low, the mouth of the Cloaca Maxima

may be seen from the newly erected iron bridge con­

necting the /We Ratio with the left lank. The place

called Ai) Bi sta Gallica where it is said that the

bodies of the Gauls were burnt who died during or

after the siege of the Capitol, has also been assumed"

to have been in this neighbourhood because it is

mentioned by V'arro {lb.) between the Aequimelium

and the Roliola (cf. I.iv. v. 48, xxii. 14). But such

an assumption is altogether arbitrary, as Varr©

follows no topographical order in naming places.

Lastly, we shall mention two objects named in the

Notitia, which seem to have stood on thej^orum-

Boarium. Thesearc the Apollo CoEUsi'EX.andthe

Hkkci i.es OuVARirjs, apparently two of those sta­

tues which Augustus dedicated in the different Vici.

Becker (ffandb. p. 493) places them in the Vela-

brum, and thinks that the epithet of Olivarius was

derived from the oil-market, which was established

in the Velabrum (Plaut. Capt. iii. 1. 29), but it

seems more probable that it denoted the crown of

olive worn by Hercules as Victor (Preller, Regional,

p. 194). The Forum Boarium was especially devoted

to the worship of Hercules, whence it seems probable

that his statue stood there; besides both that and

the Apollo are mentioned in the Notilia in coming

from the Porta Trigemina, before the Velabrum.

Before we quit the Forum Boarinm we most

advert to a barbarous custom of which it appears to

have been the scene even to a Lite period of Roman

history. Livy relates that after the battle of Cannae

a Gallic man and woman and a Greek man and

woman were, in accordance with the commands of

the Sibylline books, buried alive in a stone sepulchro

constructed in the middle of tlte Forum Boarium,

and that this was not the first time that this bar­

barous and un-Ruman custom had been practised

(xxii. 57). Dion Cassius adverts to the same in­

stance in the time of Fabius Maximus Verrucosus

(rr. Vales. 12), and Pliny mentions another which

had occurred even in his own time (" Boario vero in

foro Graecum Graecamque defosso*, aut aharum

gentium, cum quibus turn res csset, etiam nostra

aetas vidit," xxviii. 3; cf. Plut. Q. R. 83). It

may also be remarked that the first exhibition

