SYRACUSAE. 1065 SYRACUSAE.

borb oa the kite, which must otherwise hare ma-

mllj interfered with tin- Athenian lines of cir-

vilUuon. while the Syracusans woald naturally

it attempted to protect it, as they did that of

ntrnitu, by a special outwork. Yet it in remark-

.r -Jut Diodorus notices the name, and even

nks of it a* a distinct quarter of the city, as

nr u b. c. 466, daring the troubles which led

li t expulsion of Thrasybulus (Died. xi. 68). It

driVolt to reconcile this with the entire bilence of

: nerd ides. Tycha probably grew up after the

rml vail erected by Dionysius along the northern

reef the plateau bad completely secured it from

. ( Its position is clearly shown by the state-

■ni of Livy, that Marcellus, after he had forced

■ lifxspylum and scaled the heights, established

• »'-ip hetvxm Tycha and Neapolis, widi the view

earning on his assaults upon Achradina. (Liv.

>. 35.) It is trident therefore that the two

ultra were not contiguous, but that a ronsider-

• ritent of the table-land W. of Achradina was

!J unoccupied.

4. Nr.Aroua (NedVoAis), or the New City,

ku it* name implied, the last quarter of Syracuse

*& m inhabited, though, as is often the cose,  
'New Town seems to have eventually grown up

"one of the most splendid portions of the city,

may, howerer, well be doubted whether it was

f*t more recent than Tycha ; at least it appears

>: »4ne portion of Neapolis was already inhabited

lie time of the Athenian invasion, when, as

ml? mentioned, we have no trace of the existence

i suburb at Tycha. But there was then already

uHurb called Temenitis, which had grown up

and the sanctuary of Apollo Temenites. The

: if of Apollo, who was worshipped under this

ct, stood as we learn from Cicero, within the

of the quarter subsequently called Neapolis;

>u placed, as we may infer from Thucydides, on

above the theatre (which he calls axon

twrV(t), forming a part of the table-hind, and

*Wy not far from the southern escarpment of  
fiarean. A suburb had apparently grown up

:»i r, which was surrounded by the Syracusaus

!• a wall just before the commencement of the

v, and this outwork bears a conspicuous part in

'^rations that followed. (Thuc vi. 75). But this

i: i> n uf the fortifications does not appear to

• been permanent, for we find in n.c. 396 the

j-rs of Ceres and the Cora, which aLso stood on the

•ati not far from the statue of Apollo, described

titoaled in a suburb of Achradina, which was

n. and the temples plundered by the Carthaginian

rrai Humlco. (Diod. xir. 63.) The name of

-. j (rf N*o tiJaii) is indeed already mentioned

• years before (Id. xiv. 9), and it appears pro-

t iWefore that the city had already begun to

rod itself over this quarter, though it as yet formed

aa unfortified suburb. In the time of Cicero,

• evident from his description, as well as from

'tr.c remains, Neapolis had spread itself over the

h of the southern slope of the table-land, which

• forme a kind of second step or underfall, rising

oierahly above the low grounds beneath, though

w°;ara£ed from the heights of Temenitis by a

• ^j hne of cliff or abrupt declivity. The name

'• tnit is for the district on the height seems to

• Wo lost, or merged in that of Neapolis, winch

rradaally applied to the whole of this quarter

it city. But the name was retained by the ad-

gate, which was called the Temenitid Gate

(Plut. Dion. 29, where there seems no doubt that

we should read TtfitvhiZas for M« Wrioas), and seems

to have been one of the principal entrances to the

city.

Of the buildings described by Cicero as existing

in Neapolis, the only one still extant is the theatre,

which he justly extols for its large size ("theatrum

maximum," Verr. iv. 53). Diodorus also alludes

to it as the largest in Sicily (xvi. 83), a remark

which is fully borne out by the existing remains.

It is not less than 440 feet in diameter, and ap­

pears to have had sixty rows of seats, so that it

could have accommodated no less than 24,000

persons. The lower rows of seats were covered with

slabs of white marble, and the several cuuei are

marked by inscriptions in large letters, bearing the

name of king Hieron, of two queens, Phi list is and

Nereis, both of them historically unknown, and of

two deities, the Olympian Zeus and Hercules, with

the epithet of Lixppwv. These inscriptions evidently

belong to the time of llieron II., who probably deco­

rated and adorned this theatre, but the edifice itself

is certainly referable to a much earlier period, pro­

bably as early as the reign of the elder Hieron. It

was used not merely for theatrical exhibitions, but

for the assemblies of the people, which are repeatedly

alluded to as being held in it (Diod. xiii. 94; Plut.

Dion, 38, Ttmol 34, 38, &c), as was frequently

the case in other cities of Greece. The theatre, as

originally constructed, must have been outside the

walls of the city, but this was not an unusual ar­

rangement.

Near the theatre have been discovered the re­

mains of another monument, expressly mentioned by

Diodorus as constructed by king Hieron in that

situation, an altar raised on steps and a platform

not less than 640 feet in length by 60 in breadth

(Diod. xiv. 83). A little lower down are the re­

mains of an amphitheatre, a structure which un­

doubtedly belongs to the Roman colony, and was

probably constructed soon after its establishment by

Augustus, as we find incidental mention of gladia­

torial exhibitions taking place there in the reigns

of Tiberius and Nero (Tac. slnn. xiii. 49; Val. Max.

i. 7. § 8). It was of considerable ai/.c, the arena,

which is the only part of which the dimensions can

be distinctly traced, being somewhat lareer than that

of Verona. No traces have been discovered of the

temples of Ceres and Libera or Proserpine on the

height above : the colossal statue of Apollo Teme­

nites had apparently no temple in connection with

it, though it had of course its altar, as well as its

sacred enclosure or Tintvos, The statue itself,

which Verres was unable to remove on account of

its large size, was afterwards transported to Kuina

by Tiberius (Suet Til. 74).

Immediately adjoining the theatre are extensive

quarries, similar in character to those already mm*

tioned in the cliffs of Achradina. The quarries of

Syracuse (Latomiae or Lautumiae) are indeed fre­

quently mentioned by ancient authors, and especially

noticed by Cicero among the most remarkable objects

in the city. (Cic. Verr. t. 27; Aelian, V.ti. xii.

44.) There can be no doubt that they were ori­

ginally designed merely as quarries for the extraction

of the soft limestone of which the whole table-land

consists, and which makes an excellent building

stone; but from the manner in which they were

worked, being sunk to a considerable depth, without

any outlet on a level, they were found places of such

security, that from an early period they were era­

