TARTESSUS. TARUSCONIENSES. 1107

ii it like dinner the word Tartessns, and its deriva-

n adjectives, are employed by Latin writers as sy-

eatbmoi with the West (Ovid,Afef. xiv.416; SiL

iL nL 399; Claud. £)>wf. iii. v. 14). Tarshish

;«irs in Scripture as a celebrated emporium, rich

.r n, lit}, lead, silver, and other commodities; and

* Phoenicians are represented as sailing thither in  
rje ahipg (F.xek. xxvii. 12, xxviii 13; Jerem.x.

). Iniah speaks of it as one of the finest colonies

Tyre, ami describes the Tyrians as bringing its

ilnrta to their market (xxiii. 1, 6, 10). Among

U i? writers the antiquity of Tartessus is indicated

r the myths connected with it (Strab. iii. p. 149;

aim, iliv. 4). Hut the name is used by them

a rery loose and indefinite way. Sometimes it

Ukii rW Um whole of Spain, and the Tagus is re­

routed a* belonging to it (Rutilius, Itin. i. 356;

rut. n Bt^n.1 101; Sil. Ital. xiii. 674, &c).

U in general it appears, either as the name of the

n fUttu, or of a town situated near its mouth, or

;rKy of the country south of the middle and lower

am of the Baetis, which, in the time of Straho,

a inhabited by the Turdnli. The Buetis is called

.tfxfas by Susi chorus, quoted by Strabo (iii. p.

") and by Aviennj (Ora MariL i. 224), a* well

the town situated between two of its mouths ; and

«<(«rf Herod, iv. 152) is of opinion that the mo-

■a town of S. Lucar de Baraineda stands on its

The country near the lower cuur.se of the

fUi was called Tartessis or Tartesia, either from

1 river or from the town; and this district, as

i m otber> in Spain, was occupied by Phoenician

tJements, which in Strabos time, and even later,

■erred their national customs. (Strab iii. p. 149,

*.p-83t; Arr. Exp. Alex. ii. 16; App. IIUp.  
C "est. PorphyTOg. de Them. i. p. 107, ed. Bonn.)

iw was a temple of Hercules, the Phoenician

if.h, at Tartc&sus, whote worship was also

r*J amongst the neighbouring Iberians. (Arr. I.e.)

>il the middle of the seventh century n. c. some

ii« sailors were driven thither by stress of

diet; and this is the first account we have of

iotercottne of the Greeks with this distant

enician colony (Herod, iv. 152). About a cen-

f later, some Greeks from Phoeaea likewise

! ;:, and f'<nned an alliance with Arganthonius,

; of the Tartessians, renowned in antiquity for

pvat age which he attained. (Herod, i. 163;

Li ui p. 151.) These connections and the vast

Tierce of Tartessus, raised it to a great pitch of

tyritj. It traded not only with the mother

itrt, but also with Africa and the distant Cas-

and bartered the manufactures of Phoenicia

ELe productions of these countries (Strab. L p. 33;

•L rv. 196; cf. Heeren, Ideen, i. 2. §§ 2, 3).

riches and prosperity had become proverbial, and

them alluded to in the verses of Anacreon

Stan. iii. p. 151). The neighbouring sea

rtnm Tarteaaiara, Avien. Or. Mar. 64) yielded

k-nprey, one of the delicacies of the Roman

* (Oell. vii. 16); and on a coin of Tartessns are  
wuted a fish and an ear of grain (Mionnet, Med.

'. i p. 36)i We are unacquainted with the cir-

••taoces which led to the fall of Tartessns ; but

*j prohaUy have been by the hand of Hamilcar,  
< Vtbaginian general. It must at all events have

r**rd at an railv perioil, since Strabo (iii. pp.

. 1MX Pliny (iii 1, iv. 22, vii. 48), Mela (ii. 6),

*jt {Wat Fr. ii.). and others, confounded it with  
e nrccnt Phoenician colonies, or took its name to

aaaen: appellation of them. [T. H. D.]

TARUALTAE (TopoikATcu, PtoL iv. 6. § 19),

a people of Libya Interior. [T. H.D.]

TARVEDUM. [Orcas.]

TARUENNA or TARUANNA (TooooWo,

PtoL iL 9. § 8), a town in North Gallia, and

according to Ptolemy an inland town of the Morini.

[Mokini.] It is written Teruanna in the Table,

where it is marked a capital town, and the modern

name is Terouenne. It is mentioned in several

Roman routes. The distance between Gesoriacum

(Boulogne) in the Antonine Itin. and Taruenna does

not agree with the true distance; nor does the dis­

tance in the same Itin. between Taruenna and Cas­

te! lum (Cassel) agree with the actual measurement.

In both instances we must assume that there is an

error in the numerals of the Itin. D'Anville says

that the Roman road appears to exist between

Terouenne and the commencement of the BouUnoie,

or district of Boulogne, near Deere, where it passes

by a place culled La Chaussee. There are also said

to be traces of a Roman road from Itius Portus

(Wissant) to Terouenne. [G. L.]

TAKVESEDE (/t Ant. p. 279) or TARVES-

SEDO, according to the Peuting. Table, was a place

in Rliaetia on the road from Mediolunum leading by

Comum to Augusta Vindelicorum. Its exact site is

now unknown, though it seems to have been situated

near Torre di Vercelh. [L. S.]

TARYI'SIUM (J*p€l<nov: Fth. Tarvisianus:

Trerwo), a town of Northern Italy, in the province

of Venetia, situated on the left bank of the river

Si lis (Stlt), about 15 miles from its mouth. The

name is not mentioned by any of tho geographers,

though Pliny speaks of the Silis as Bowing ** ex

montibus Tarvisanis," in a manner that would lead

us to suppose it to have been a municipal town

(Plin. iii. 18. s. 22), and this is confirmed by an

inscription given by Muratori (Inscr. p. 328).

After the fall of the Western Empire it appears as a

considerable city, and is repeatedly noticed by Pro-

copius during the Gothic Wars, as well as by Cassio-

dorus and Paulus IHaconus. (Cassiod. Var. x. 27;

Procop. B. G. ii. 29, iii. 1, 2; P. Diac. Hut. Lang.

ii. 12, iv. 3, v. 28, &c) It retained this considera­

tion throughout the middle ages, and is still a flou­

rishing city under the name of Treviso. [E. IL B.]

TARLiS (7Yrro), a river of Gallia Cispadana,

one of the southern tributaries of the Pod us, which

crosses the Aemilian Way between 5 and 6 miles

west of Parma. (Plin. iii. 16. a. 20; Geogr. Rav.

iv. 36.) [E. H. B.]

TARUSATES are mentioned by Caesar (B. G.

iii. 27) among the Aquitanian peoples who sub­

mitted to P. Crassus: "Vocates, Tarusates, Elu-

sates." After Crassus had defeated the Sotiatoa

[Sotiates] he entered the territory of the Vocates,

and Tarusates, a statement which gives some indi­

cation of their position. Pliny (iv. 19) places the

Tarusates between the Succa^scs and Basubocates;

but the MSS. reuding in Pliny seems to be Latu-

sates, which probably should be Tarusates, There

appears to be no variation in the name in the MSS.

of Caesar. D'Anville conjectures that the name

Tarusates is preserved in Tursan, or Tew$un, a

part of the diocese of Ave. The town of Aire is

on the Aturis (Adour). [G. L.]

TARUSCONIENSES, as the name stands in

Harduin's edition of Pliny (iv. 4), but the read*

ing is doubtful. Harduin found Taracunonienscs in

five MSS., and there are other variations. BesiJea

Tarascon on the Rhone, there is Tamtam on tl.e

4 B 2

