0P1TEBG1UM. 0PPIDUM NOVUM. 485

tie river Tigris flowed by it Xenophon, in the

Eetraai of the Ten Thousand, speaks of it as a large

a:y situated npaa the Physcas (now Adhem). and ap-

faianiJy at sane distance from its junction with the

Tens. Anian, describing the return of Alexander

maw the East, state* that he sailed up the Tigris to

• foa. destroying on his way the dams which (it was

Lid) the Persians had placed across the river to

rfrwent any naval force ascending the stream. At

< 'ail he is said to have held a great assembly of all

cj« troops, and to have sent home those who were

i .; Msetx £t to serve. (^ nab. vii. 7.) Strabo speaks

r>. u as m his time a small village, but places it, like

Hr.t4.cas and A man, upon the Tigris (ii. p. 80,

xl p. 529, xvi. p. 739). Captain Lynch, in his

of the Tigris between Baghdad and Sarnar-

thal some extensive ruins be met with

■ar the angle formed by the A diem and Tigris,

ssi the remains of the Xahr-atodn canal, mark

'» site of Opi*. Bat the change in the course of

la» Tigris there observable has led to the de-

• •rsrton of great part of the ancient city. (Lynch,

'*"*jr. Jam. ix. p. 472; com p. Rawliu&on, Geogr.

•Wa. x. p. 95.) [V.]

OPITE'BGIL'M ('Owirsjryior: Eth. Opiterginus:

ftsw m ). a city of Venetia, situated about 24 miles

a>w the sea, midway between the rivers Plavis

(raw) and Liquentia (Lirensa), on a small stream

tax called the Fratta) flowing into the latter.

Jkm xwatira of it is found before the Roman con-

fkae <d Veeetia; but it appears to have under their

Mar become a considerable municipal town, and is

by Strabo as a nourishing place, though

• esry of the first class. (Strab. v. p. 214.) In

Cirj War between Caesar and Pompey a body

rasps furnished by the Opitergini is mentioned

the most heroic valour, and offering a

pie of self-devotion, in a naval com-

tleeU of the two parties. (I.iv. Ep.

Iser. ir. 2. § 33; Lucan, iv. 462 — 571.)

■s also notices it as one of the more considcr-

sxras ixt this part of Italy which were occupied

p wnais of Vespasian, Primus, and Varus.

Btt. iii. 6 ) It is mentioned by all the geo-

■a, aa well as in the Itineraries ; and though

aaas tells as it was taken and destroyed by

of the Quadi and Marcomanni in a. r>.

this blow, and was still a

the Lombards. (I'lin. iii. 19.

rasL ii- 1. § 30; /tin. Ant. p. 280; Tab.

msan. 6. § I; P. Disc iv. 40.)

prion of the reign of Alexander Sever us,

bears the) title of a Colonia; as it is not j

either by Pliny or Tacitus, it probably

■ N.t rank tinder Trajan. (OrelL Inter. 72;

p. 402.) It was destroyed by the

Kothavris in A. V. 641, and again, in

warn afterwards, by Grimoaldus (P.

47 w. 28); but seems to have risen again

rsafa* so tb*> middle ages, and is still a con-

kn and an episcopal see.

itself stood quite in the plain; but its

have been extensive, com-

of the adjoining Alps, as

Use river Liquentia as rising "ex

(Plin. in. 18. s. 22). The

of cross-road which pro-

by f'eltria (Keltre) and

to Tridentum (Trent), (/tin. Ant.

[E. H. B.]

I COwmwi), ■ small port-town on the ca

of Pontus, probahly on or near the mouth of the

river Ophis. (Ptol. v. 6. § 6; Tab. Patting.) It

is placed 120 stadia west of the river Khizius,

although its name seems to indicate that it was

situated further west, near the river Opbis. [L. S.]

OPO'NE ('Oirwnj;'Oirwn) ifixipiov, Ptol. iv. 7.

§11; PeripL Mar. Erythr. p. 9), the modem lla-

fvon or Afun, was a town situated upon the eastern

coast of Africa, immediately N. of the region called

Azania (Khazayin), lat. 9° N. The author of the

Periplus, in his account of this coast, says that

Opone stood at the commencement of the highland

called by the ancients Mount Elepbas. He

further defines its position by adding that since

there was only an open roadstead at the Aromatum

Emporium — the cape Guardafui or Jerdaffoon of

modern charts — ships in bad weather ran down to

Tabae for shelter,—the promontory now known as

Rat Hannah, where stood the town called by Ptolemy

(i. 17. § 8, iv. 7. § 11) IJiwwv Kuifin, the Hannah

of the Arabians. From thence a voyage of 400

stadia round a sharply projecting peninsula termi­

nated at tbe emporium of Opone. Here ended to

S. the Regio Aromuta of tbe ancients.

Opone was evidently a place of some commercial

importance. The region in which it stood was from

remotest ages the seat of the spice trade of Libya.

Throughout the range of Mount Elephas the valleys

that slope seawards produce frankincense, while

inland the cassia or cinnamon of the ancients at­

tained jierfection. But the Greeks, until a com­

paratively late period, were unacquainted with this

coast, and derived from the Arabians its distinctive

local appellations. Opone, which doubtless occu­

pied the site, probably, therefore, represents also

the Arabic name of a town called Afun or /fo/bon,

1. e. Afaon, fragrant gums and spices; which, again,

is nearly equivalent to the Greek designation of the

spice-land of Eastern Libya — Aromata. And this

derivation is rendered the more probable, when

taken in connection with the neighbouring bluff or

headland of Guardafui or Jerdaffoon, since Afun

enters into the composition of both names, and Jerd

or Guard resembles the Punic word Karttui, a

headland. Thus Jerd-Affoon is the promontory of

Opone. Ptolemy (iv. 7. § II) places Opone too far

S. of cape Jerdaffoon. The author of the Periplus

more correctly sets it a degree further N., six days*

voyage from a river which runs at the southern base of

Wady Haifa, or Mount Elephas. The character­

istics of the entire tract, of which Opone formed one

extremity, are those of an elevated ridge lying be­

tween two seas,—the Red Sea and the ocean,—and

which, from its elevation and exposure to the NE.

monsoon, is humid ana fertile^ffording a marked con­

trast to the generally sterile and arid shore aliove and

below the highland of Elephas. S. of 0]»ne there

is no trace of ancient commerce. The articles of

export from this emporium were, according to the

author of the Periplus, cinnamon, distinguished as

"native," aroma, fragrant gums generally, motb,

or cinnamon of inferior quality; slaves of a superior

kind (AouAixd Kptioaom), principally for the

Aegyptian market; and tortoise-shell of a superior

quality and in great abundance. (See Vincent,

Commerce and Navigation of the Ancientt, vol. ii.

p. 152—157.) "[W. B. D.]

OPPIDUM NOVUM (*Oinrioor N«"> Ptol. iv.

2. § 25), a town of Mauretania, colonised in tbe

reign of the emperor Claudius, by the veterans (Plin.

v. 1), which Ptolemy 'I. c s places 10' to the E.

I I 3

