TANAITAE. TAXIS. 10S9

f GrSfc, Men. <fe lAc. des Sc. a St. Petersb. vi.

er. fL p. 24; Stempowakv, Sow. Jour. Asioi.

p.55; Bockh. Inscr. ii. p.* 1008). [T. H. D.)

TANA1TAB (Toron-ai, Ptol. iii. 5. § 24), a peo-

It of European Sarmatia, dwelling NE. of the ftoxo-

itt, iml between them and the Tanais. [T. H. D.]

TAS'AKUS (Tanaro'), a river of Liguria, the

*: important of all the southern tributaries of  
>i I'atlas. It rises in the Maritime Alps above

rra (CebaX ^0WB ft first due N., receives near

ktnuco the waters of the Stura, a stream as eon-

imble as itself, then turns to the NE., passes

'iur, a few miles of Pollcntia (Pollenza), flows

idtr the walls of Alba Pampeia and Asta (Asti),

J discharges its waters into the Po about 15

Leitiw IWensa (Forum Fulvii). It receives

a r considerable tributaries besides the &ura

«ttiv mentioned, of which the most important is

: livrmula, the ancient name of which has not

m preserved to us; but the Orba, a minor stream

tch fans into it a few miles above its junction

La tbe Tanaro* is evidently the river Urbs, men-

oal by Claudian (B. Get. 555), the name of

ka had given rise to an ambiguous prophecy,

n had misled tbe Gothic king Alaric. The Btlbo,

. I tails into the Tanaro a few miles above the

<^tiida, has been identified with the Fevus of the

lu.'i; but the names of rivers given in that do­

om! in this part of Italy are so corrupt, and their

iu*os so strangely misplaced, that it is idle to

nnpt their determination. Though the Tansrus

uk of the most important rivers of Northern

If, its name is not mentioned by any of the

irspbera except Pliny; nor does it occur in

jxj until long after the fall of the Western

jare. (Pun. iii. 16. a. 20 j P. Disc. Hist. Lang.

W.) [E.H. B.]

TANATIS, according to Solinus (c 12), an

mi to th« neighbourhood of Britain. It is un-

Ufdly tbe same which Beds (Hist. Keel i. 25)

■ lanaloa, and which still bears the name of

met [T. H. D.]

ANATIS. [Tali a.]

ANAC& [Aroos, Vol. I. p. 201, a.]

A-NKTCM or TANNE'TUM (Terror, Ptol.:

Isnetanus, Plin.: S. Ilario), a small town of

is Cispadana, on the Via Aemilia, between

J"n LepkJum and Parma, and distant 10 miles

i the former and 8 from the latter city. (/tin.

J» 287; It**- Bier. p. 616; Tab. Pent.) It

*■ iU aed in history before the Roman conquest  
<: part of Italy, as a Gaulish village, to which

; n*!or L. ManUus retired after his defeat by

in a. c. 218, and where he was surrounded

<-^ed by that people, (Pol. iii. 40; Liv. jxi.

] o tuiine is not again noticed in history, but

mentioned both by Pliny and Ptolemy as a

rip*] town of Gallia CUpadana, though it ap-

> to haro never risen to be a place of importance.

L iu. IS. a. 20; Ptol. iii. 1. §46; Phlegon,

^6. I.) Livy calls the Gaulish town "vicos

fropiaauos,** an expression which would lead

i erroneous idea of its position; for we learn

Um Itineraries that it certainly stood on tbe

at a distance of more than 10 miles from

f'sia*. The site is still occupied by a large

jv, which is now called, from the name of its

-j«J church, Stmt Ilario; but a hamlet or  
r» shout a mile to the X. still retains the

'Tflnrfo It i» distant about 2 miles from

the Nicia of Pliny (iii. 16. 8. 20),

x. tx.

which flows into the Po, about 12 miles from tbe

point where it crosses the Aemilian Way. [E. H. B.]

TANIS (TdV«, Herod, ii. 166; Strab. xvii.

p, 802; Ptol. iv. 5. § 52; the Zoan of the Hebrews,

Numb. xiii. 23; the Coptic Tam or Athennks, and

the modern San), was a city of Lower Aegypt,

situated, in lat. 30° 59', on the Tanitic arm of the

Nile. [Nilus, Ostium Taniticum.] It was the ca­

pital of the Tanitic Nome. Although the name of

Tanis does not appear in Aegyptian annuls earlier

than the xxi-st dynasty, which consisted of 21 Tanite

kings, it had long previously been among the mont im­

portant cities of the Delta. The branch of the Nile on

which it stood was, with the exception of the Pe-

lusiac, the most easterly, and the nearest to Palestine

and Arabia. It is described in tbe Book of Numbers

(/. c.) as founded only seven years later than He­

bron; and Hebron, being extant in the time of Abra­

ham, was one of the oldest towns in Palestine. Tanis

owed its importance partly to its vicinity to theses,

and partly to its situation among the Deltaic

marshes. It probably was never occupied by the

Hyksos, but, during their usurpation, afforded refuge

to the exiled kings and nobles of Memphis. It was

a place of strength during the wars of the early

kings of the New Monarchy—the xviiith dynasty—

with the shepherds; and when the Aegyptian*, in

their turn, invaded Western Afia, the position of

Tanis became of the more value to them. For

after Aegypt became a maritime power, in its wars

with Cyprus and Phoenicia, a city at no great dis­

tance from the coast would be indispensable for

its naval armaments. To these purposes Tanis

was better adapted than the more exposed and

easterly Pelusiuin. The eastern arms of the Nile

were the first that silted up, and the Pelusiac

mouth of the river was at a very early period too

shallow for ships of war. The greatness of Tanis

is attested in many passages of the Hebrew writers.

In the 78th Psalm the wonders that attended the

departure of the Israelites from Aegypt are said to

have been ** wrought in the plain of Zoan." This

Psalm, indeed, is somewhst later than David (B.C.

1055—1015); but it proves the tradition that Tanis

was the capital of that Pharaoh who oppressed the

Hebrew people. Iu the age of Isaiah (six. 11, foil.),

about 258 years later, Tanis was still reckoned the

capital of the Delta, since the prophet speaks of the

princes of Zoan and the primes of Nopli (Memphis)

as equivalent to the nobles of Aeeypt. Again,

Isaiah (xxx. 4) describes the ambasoadors who

were sent to Aegypt to form an alliance with its

king as repairing to Zoan and llanes, or Ileraeleo-

polis; and the desolation of Zoan is threatened by

Ezekiel as the consequence of Nebuchadnezzar s

invasion. Tanis probably declined as Sais and

Memphis rose into importance; yet twenty years

before the Chiistian era it was still a large town

(Strab. xvii. p. 802); nor did it shrink into insigni­

ficance until nearly 80 a.d. (Joseph. B. Jud. iv.

11, § 4.) Its linen manufacture probably long sus­

tained it. The marshy grounds in its environs were

well suited to the cultivation of flax; and Pliny

(ix. 1) speaks of tbe Tanitic linen as among

the finest in Aegypt.

No city in the Delta presents so many monu­

ments of interest as Tanis. The extensive plain

uf San is indeed thinly inhabited, and no village

exists in the immediate vicinity of tbe buried

city. A canal passes through, without being

able to fertilise, the field of Zoan, and wild beasts

4 A

