MYLAE. 385 MYLASSA.

Uh river Longanus, on the banks of which Ihe ac­

tion ns fought, cannot be identified with certainty.

[LoXGAKUS.]

It is probable that, even after the Roman conquest

of Sicily, Mylae continued to be a dependency of

Messina, as long as that city enjoyed its privileged

condition as a " foederata civitas: " hence no mention

is fonnd of its name in the Verrine orations of Cicero;

but in the time uf Pliny it had acquired the ordinary

municipal privileges of the Sicilian towns. (Plin. iii.

8. s. 14; Ftol. iii. 4. § 2.) It never, however, seems

to have been a place of importance, and was at this

period wholly eclipsed by the neighbouring colony of

Tyndaiis. Bat the strength of its position as a

fortress caused it in the middle ages to be an object

of attention to the Norman kings of Sicily, as well

as to the emperor Frederic II.; and though now

much neglected, it is still a military position of import-

tance. The modern city of MUazzo is a tolerably

nourishing place, with about 8000 inhabitants; it is

bait for the most part on a low sandy neck of land,

connecting the peninsula, which is bold and rocky,

with the mainland. But the old town, which pro­

bably occupied the same site with the ancient city,

stood on a rocky hill, forming the first rise of the

rocky ridjjc that constitutes the peninsula or head­

land of Capo di Alilazzo. The modern castle on a

hill of greater elevation, commanding both the upper

and lower town, in prubably the site of the ancient

Acropolis. (Thuc iii. 90; Smyth's Sicily, pp. 103,

104; Hoare's Classical Tour, vol. ii. p. 215.)

The promontory of Mylae, stretching out abruptly

into the sea, forms the western boundary of a bay

of considerable extent, affording excellent anchorage.

This bay was memorable in ancient history as the

Kent of two great naval actions. The first of these

was toe victory obtained by the Roman fleet under

C. Duillius, over that of the Carthaginians in the

First Panic War, B. c. 260, in which the Roman

consul, by means of the engiues called Corvi (then

used (or the first time), totally defeated the enemy's

fleet, and took fifty of their ships. (Pol. i. 23.) More

than two centuries later, it was in the same bay that

A»ripp», who commanded the fleet of Octavian,

dafeaied that of Sextus Pompeius, B. c. 36. Agrippa

advanced from the island of Hieru, where his fleet

bad been before stationed, while the ships of Pompey

lined the shores of the bay of Mylae. After their

defeat they took refuge at the mouths of the nume­

rous small rivers, or rather mountain torrents, which

here descend into the sea. After this battle, Agrippa

nude himself master of Mylae as well as Tyiidaris;

»r<i tome time afterwards again defeated the fleet

<i Pompeius in a second and more decisive action,

between Mvlae and a place called Naulochus. The

latter name is otherwise unknown, but it seems to

Lave been situated somewhere in the neighbourhood

«f Cape Rasoculmo, the Phalacrian promontory of

Huleiny. (Appian, B. C. v. 195—109, 115—122;

J>*o Cass. xlix. 2—11; Veil. Pat. ii. 79; Suet.

Avg. 16.)

In the account of this campaign Appian speaks

of a small town named ArtemisiI'M, which is no­

ticed also by Dion Cassias, and must have been situ-

*Ui a little to the E. of Mylae, but is not mentioned  
b; any of the geographers. (Appian, B. C. v. 116;

Dwi Cam. xlix. 8.) It is, however, obviously the

same place alluded to by Silius ltalicus as the

""Jei Faeelina Dianae" (Sil. Ital. xiv. 260), and

tailed by Lucilius, in a fragment of his satires,

"FartliU tempU Dianae." (Lucil. Sal. iii. 13.)

Tot. n.

Vibius Sequester also mentions a river which he

calls Phackunus, and describes as"juxta Pe-

loridem, confinis templo Dianae." (Vib. Seq. p. 16.)

It is, however, obvious, from Appian, that the temple

was not situated in the neighbourhood of Pelorus,

but at a short distance from Mylae, though the

precise site cannot be determined. It was desig­

nated by popular tradition as the spot where tbo-

sacred cattle of the Sun had been kept, and were

slaughtered by the companions of Ulysses. (Appian,

Lc; Plin. ii. 98. s. 101.) The Mons Thokax,

mentioned by Diodorus in his account of the battle

of the Longanus (Diod. xxii. 13), must have been

one of the underfalls of the Neptunian Mountains,

which throughout this part of Sicily descend close to

the sea-shore; but the particular mountain meant is

wholly uncertain. [E. H. B.]

MYLAE. Pliny (iv. 12) speaks of two inlands

of this name, lying off the coast of Crete. They

belonged to the group of three islands oft" Fhalasarna

(Kutri), called by the Anonymous Coast-describer

JusAGOKA, Mkse, Myle (Stadiasm). Petalidha

is the name of the northernmost of the three little

islands; the second, opposite to which is Kaviisi, is

called Megalonesi, in spite of its very moderate size;

and the third Prasonesi. (Pashlev, Trav. vol. ii. p.

61.) [E. B.J.]

MYLAE (MvAtu: Eth. MoAo?oi), a town of Per-

rhaebia in Thessaly, taken by Perseus in B. c. 171.

(Liv. xlii. 54; Steph. B. s. t>.) As Livy describes

it as a strong place near Cyretiae, it is placed by

Leake at Dhanuiti, " which is not only strong in

itself, but very important, as commanding the pass

of the Titaresius, leading into Pcrrhaebia from the

Pelasgiotis." (NorUtern Greece, vol. iv. p. 311.)

MYLAS, or MYLE (MiiAos), a promontory on

the coast of Cilicia, between cape Aphrodisias in

the west and cape Sarpedon in the east. On or close

to it was a small town of the same name (Plin.

v. 22; Stadiasm. Mar. Mag. §§ 165,166.) As the

Stadiusmus calls Mylas a cape and chersonese,

Leake (Asia Minor, p. 205) is inclined to identify

it with cape Cavuliere, which answers exactly to

that description. [L. S.]

MYLASSA or MYLASA (t4 Mu'Aaoo-o, or Mu-

Aao-a: Eth. MoAatreiis), the most important town of

Caria, was situated in a fertile plain, in the west of

the country, at the foot of a mountain, abounding in

beautiful white marble, of which its buildings and

temples were constructed. Hence the city was ex­

ceedingly beautiful on account of its white marble

templesand porticoes, and many wondered that so fino

a city was built at the foot of a steep overhanging

mountain. The two most splendid temples in the

city were those of ZeusOsogos and Zeus Labrandenus,

the latter of which stood in the neighbouring village

of Labranda, on a hill, and was connected with the

city by a road called the sacred, 60 stadia in length,

along which the processions used to go to the temple.

The principal citizens of Mylassa were invested with

the office of priests of Zeus for life. The city waa

very ancient, and is said to have been the birthplace

and residence of the Carian kings before Hulkar-

nassus was raised to the rank of a capital. Its.

nearest point on the coast was Physcus, at a dis­

tance of 80 stadia, which was the port of Mylassa;

though Stephanus B. calls Passala its port-town.

(Strab. xiv. p. 658, &c; Aeschyl. t'ragm. 48, where

it is called Mylas; Steph. B. s. v.; Herod, i.

171. Ptol. v. 2. §20; Plin. v. 29; Pans. viii. 10.

§ 3.) ' The splendour of Mylassa is attested by an

c c

