PALAESTINA. FALAKSTLNA.

whirl], with its deep fissures, the earthquakes to

which it is subject, and the saline .sulphureous

springs, which have a temperature of 46° cent., at­

test the volcanic origin of this depression.

"The other substances met with in the neighbour­

hood are no less corroborative of the cause assigned.

On the shore of the lake .Mr. Maundrell found a

kind of bituminous stone, which I infer from bin

description to be analogous to that of Radusa in

Sicily.

"It would appear that, even antecedently to the

eruption mentioned in Scripture, bitumen-pits

abounded in the plain of Siddim. Thus, in the ac­

count of the battle between the kings of Sodom and

Gomorrah and some of the neighbouring princes

((hit. xiv.), it is said, 'And the vale of Siddim

was full of slime-pits,' which a learned friend as­

sures me ought to be translated fountains of bitumen.

"But besides this volcanic eruption, which brought

about the destruction of the cities, it would appear

that the very plain itself in which they stood was

obliterated, and that a lake was formed in its stead.

This is collected, not only from the apparent non­

existence of the valley in which these cities were

placed, but likewise from the express words of

Scripture, where, in speaking of the wars which

took place between the kings of Sodom and Go­

morrah and certain adjoining tribes, it is added that

the latter assembled in the vale of Siddim, which is

the Silt 0'. e. the Dead) Sea.

"It is therefore supposed that the lake itself occu­

pies the site of this once fertile valley, and that it

was produced by the waters of the Jordan, which,

being without an outlet, would fill the hollow until

the surface over which they spread themselves

proved sufficiently large to cause the loss arising

from evaporation to bo equivalent to the accessions it

received from the rains and snows of the mountains

in which it took its rise.

■' This hypothesis assumes that previously to the

existence of the Dead Sea the Jordan must have had

an outlet, either into the Mediterranean or into the

Red Sea; and accordingly when it was discovered by

Burekhardt, that there actually existed a longi­

tudinal valley, parallel to the course which the Jor­

dan took before it reached the Dead Sea, as well us

to the larger axis of that expanse of waters, running

from north to south, and extending from the south­

ern termination of the Dead Sea to the extremity of

the gulf of Akaba, it was immediately concluded

that this valley was in fact the former bed of the

Jordan, which river, consequently, prior to the ca­

tastrophe by which the Dead Sea was produced, had

flowed into this arm of the Red Sea.

"Briefly, then, to recapitulate the train of phe­

nomena by which the destruction of the cities might

have been brought about, I would suppose that the

river Jordan, prior to that event, continued its course

tranquilly through the great longitudinal valley

called El-Arabak, into the gulf of Akaba; that a

shower of stones and sand from some neighbouring

volcano first overwhelmed these places; and that its

eruption was followed by a depression of the whole

of the region, from some point apparently inter-

mediate between the lake of Tiberias and the moun­

tains of Lebanon, to the watershed in the parallel of

30°, which occurs in the valley of Et-Arabah above

mentioned. 1 would thence infer that the waters of

the Jordan, jjent up within the valley by a range of

mountains to the east and west, and a barrier of

elevated table-land to the bouth, could find ho outlet.

and consequently by decrees formed alike ^A

most depressed |>ortion; which, however, did iM <im

at once, and therefore is not recorded by Scnfco

as a part of the catastrophe (see the [nvsi^ i

Ezekhf, xlvii. 8. indicating, if it be inkrpoii

literally, the gradual manner in which the Ivuj .>

was formed, and likewise perhaps the tinted*

a tradition that its waters once hail tbeir eik id li

Red Sea), though reference is made in arK*l*ra

sage to its existence in what was before tlw ndkj

Siddim.

"If, as Robinson states, extensive bedsofakoet

immediately round its margin, the solution U I

contents of these by the tvaters of the lutf T«

account for their present comp-^itiun, its silti

increasing nearly to the point of saturiti'-n,

the gradual accession of waters from !ibotf,«w

on evaporating, would leave their salt behind; rt

the bitumen might either have existed then J

viously as a consequence of antecedentvoUaokW

tions, or have been produced by the very ooe

reference is hen; made.

I do not, however, see what is pained l*

tributing the destruction of these cities, as •

have preferred to do, to the combustion uf the«l

i f bitumen, as the latter could have been iri*

by no natural agent with which we are icqati

except the volcano itself, which therefore maH

any case be supposed instrumental.and, being in")

will alone enable us to explain all the facts rw«

"It must at the same time be confessed thi! ■

remains to be done before this or any otbr 4

nation can be received as established: and I vt

appointed to find that amongst the crowds of tn*

who have resorted to the Holy Land within Um

twenty years, so few have paid that attention t

physical structure of the country which id-''* I

place the subject beyond the limits of aoai*

controversy.

11 The geologist, for instance, would still fbd ii i

his while to search the rocks which bound \he

Sea, in order to discover if possible whether tts

any crater which might have been in a *

eruption at the period alluded to; he should uo

whether there are any proofs of a sinking i

ground, from the existence of rap tils anywiio*

the course of the river, and whether south I

lake can be discovered traces of the ancml

the Jordan, ;is well as of a barrier of lava strt

across it, which latter hypothesis Von Burii.

ccive, is still inclined to support; nor .-' i

omit to examine whether vestiges of these J

cities can he found, as some have stated, sate

beneath the waters, and buried, like Pompeii*

heaps of the ejected materials.**

VI. Historical Geogkatht.

1. Earliest period. — The first notice wi

of the inhabitants of Palestine is in iht 4

Abraham's immigration, when the Canaar.it*

, the land, from whom it receive,! its e > --:

I lation, " the land of Canaan.** ((Jen. xit- i,

7, llf, &c.) The limits of their country an-

defined in the genealogy of Canaan; bat tu

bution among the various families of thai p»

is nowhere clearly stated. "Canaan > ji!

his first-born, and Heth, and the Jtrbns-ite, I

Anionic, and the liirgasite, and the Hn I

Arkite, and the Sinite, and the Arrant r. i

Zeniarite, and the Hamathite: and aftrrwas

the families of the Cauaamtcs spread abnatj

