f,2 JOITA. IONIUM MAKE.

Per. 92), are obviously mere etymological fancies.

No trace of the name is found in the Homeric p«s-ins:

and it ocean for the first time in Aeschylus, though,

from the poetic diction of that writer, it is not clear

in what precise svnse he employs the term woVtcoj

cu>x°i 'liyiot. (Ae-<h. /. c.) Herodotus evidently

employs the name 'lovios k6\tos, the Ionian (ptlf,

jus synonymous with the Adriatic; and Thucydides

likewise uses the term in the same sense, as is evi­

dent from his expression, that " Epidamnus is h city

on the right hand as you sail into the Ionian gulf"

(i. 24). He also repeatedly uses the term o '\6viot

(with KcfXiroi understood) in speaking of the passage

from Curcyra to the lapygian promontory (vi. 30,34,

vii. 33); but in all these cases ho refers only to the

narrow sea, which mitrht be considered as jjart of the

name gulf or inlet with the entrance of the Adriatic.

Sylax also, and even Scymnus Chins, employ the

name of the Ionian pulf in the same sense, as sy­

nonymous with the Adriatic, or at least with the

southern part of it (Scyl. §§ 14, 27; Scymn. Ch.

133, 361) [AimiATici'M Makk]; while the name

of the Ionian sen, in the more extended sense given

to it by later geographers, ns indicated at the com­

mencement of this article, is not found in any early

Greek writer. Pulybius is the first extant author

who uses the term in this sense, and gives the name

of TdVios wopor to the sea which extended from the

entrance of the Adriatic along the coast of Italy as

far as the promontory of Corinthus, which he con­

siders as its southern limit (I'ol. ii. 14, v. 110.)

Even here the peculiar expression of the Ionian

ttrrtit sufrk-iently shows that this was a mere ex­

tension of the name from the narrow sea or strait at

the entrance of the Adriatic to the more open sea to

the S. nf it. Hence we have no proof that the name

was ever one in common use among the (ireeks until

it came to be established by the geographers; and

even Ktrabo, who on these points often follows earlier

authors, gives the name only of the Ionian gulf to

the i art of the sea near the entrance of the Adriatic,

while he extends the appellation of the Sicilian sea

(SotcAiirof WAtryos) from the eastern shores of

Sicily to those of the Peloponnese. He, u well as

I'olybios and Scymnus Chios, fixes the Acmce-

raunian promontory as the limit between the Ionian

and the Adriatic seas. (Strab. ii. p. 123, vii. pp.

31G, 317.) l'liny uses the name of Ionium Mare

very widely, or rather very vaguely; including under

that appellation the Mare Siculum and Creticum of

the Greeks, as well as apparently the lower part of

the Adriatic (Plin. iii. 8. s. 14. 26. a. 29, 30, iv. 11.

s. 18), and this appears to have been the usage

common in his day, and which is followed by the

Latin poets. (Virg. Atn. iii. 211, 671; Ovid, Fait.

iv. 565, &e.) Mela distinguishes the Ionian pea

from the Sicilian, and applies the former name, in the

sense now generally adopted by geographers, as that

portion of the broad sea between the shores of Greece

and those of Sicily, which lay nearest to the former.

(Mel. ii. 4. § 1.) But all these names, given merely

to portions of tho Mediterranean which had no

natural limits, were evidently used very vaguely and

indefinitely; and the great extension given at a later

period to the name of the Adriatic swallowed op

altogether those of the Ionian and Sicilian seas

[AimiATicm Mark], or led to the employment of

the former name in • vague and geneial sense,

wholly different from that in which it was originally

applied. Thus Servius, commenting on the expres­

sion of Virgil, " Iusulae loniu in niegno," where the

trite Ionium Mare is meant by the poet, says •—

"Sciendum, Ionium siuum esse imniciisum, ;ib 1< nu

uscjue ad Siciliam, et hujus partes esse Adriaticuin,

Achaicum et Epiroticuin." (Serv. ad A en. iii. 211.)

On the other hand, the name of the Ionian gulf (o

TcWi koAi-oj) was still given in late times (at leatt

by geographers), in a very limited sense, to thai

portion of the Adriatic immediately within the strait

at its entrance. (Eustath. ad Ilionyt. Per. 92,

389.) Ptolemy even applies the name of the Ionian

sea ('\iiviov wi\«yos, iii. 1. §§ 14, 15) in the same

restricted manner.

Krom the name of the Ionian sea has been deri\e>l

that of the Ionian islauds, now given to the group

of seven principal islands (besides several smaller

ones) which constitute an independent republic under

the protectorate of Great Britain; but there is no

ancient authority for this appellation. [E. H II.]

JUl'PA (Ioinrn.LXX.; Stmb.xvi.p. 759; I'll*,

v. 16. § 2. The form' Icfirn, Steph. B.; Dicnys. v.

910; Joseph. ;lnl% ix. 10. § 2; Solin. 34, better

suits the Phoenician original, which signifies "an

eminence;" comp. Mover's Phimizier, yL ii. p. 177;

Hitzig, /He PhiluUier, pp. 131 — 134: Etk. "U-

wi'ttjt, 'Iotm'tijj, 'Ioi-a-fa, 'Ithrfia, 'Ioircvr, 'lovir.

The Hebrew name Jatho is still preserved in the

Arabic Yafa or Jaffa). A seaport town and haven

on the coast of Palestine, situated on an eminence.

The ancients asserted that it had existed before the

Deluge (Pomp. Mela. i. 11. § 3; Plin. v. 14), and

according to legend it was on this shore that An­

dromeda was rescued by I'ersens (Strab. /. c.; Plin.

I. c.; comp. Hieron. in Jim. i.) from the monster,

whose skeleton was exhibited at Home by SI. Ae-

milius Scaurus during his famous curule aedile-liip

(Plin. ix. 4). When the Israelites invaded Canaan

it is mentioned as lying on the border of the tribe of

Dan {Josh. xix. 40). and whs the only port pos­

sessed by the Jewish people, till Herod made the

harbour at Caesarea. The timber from Lebanon

intended fur both the first and second temples was

landed here (1 Kings, v. 9; 2 Citron, ii. 16; fos,

iii. 7); and Jonah went to Joppa to find a ship

going to Tarshish (Jon. i. 3). Judas Maccabaruai

set the shipping oti tire, because of the inhabitants

having drowned 200 Jews (2 Mace. xii. 3—7).

The town was afterwards taken by Jonathan

(1 Mare. x. 74—76), but was not long retained,

as it was again captured by Simon (xii. 34), and

was strongly fortified by him (xiv. 5, xt. 28). It

was annexed by Pimipcius to the Iloman province

of Syria, along with other towns which the Jews

had held by grants from the predecessors of An-

liochns (Joseph. Antiq. xiv. 4. § 4, cunip. xiiL S»

§ 2), and was afterwards given U llcnxl by Julia*

Caesar (xv. 7. J 3), and remained part of llie do­

minions of Archelaus (xvii II. §4).

In the New Testament Joppa is mentioned in con­

nection with the Apostle Peter (Act*, ix. 36—13.

X. 5, 18. xi. 5). During the Jewish war, this

place, which had become a receptacle fur pint'-s

(Strab. xvi. p. 759), was taken by Ostitis,an,I Mini

of the inhabitants were put to the sword. (Jos*i.x

B.J. ii. 18. § 10.) Vespasian afterwards utterly

demolished the ruins of Joppa, to which great num­

bers of persona had fled, and taken to piracy fur

subsistence. (B. J. iii. 9. §§ 2—5.) In the time

of Corutantine Joppa was the seat of a buhnp. as

well as when taken by the Arabians under tiiiiar,

A. ii. 636; the name of a bishop oc<nrs in tlie

council held at Jerusalem A. L>. 536. At the prrwd

