RHODUS. 715 RHOCONIS.

tti'ej teal for literature, philosophy, and art. The

fiitetoal activity maintained itself in Rhodes

at after it had died away in most other parts of

flu bland of Rhodes, which appears even in the

rrst taditkn as extremely wealthy (Horn. II

, CO; Pind. Otfmp. vii. 49; Philostr. Imag. ii.

!\ it in many parts indeed rough and rocky, cspe-

iilt the oast near the city of Rhodes, and the

•oirt iboat Lindas, but on the whole it was er­

ror!; fertile: its wine, dried raisins and figs, were

un Bteentd, and its saffron, oil, marble, achate,

><:a, ud i-h, are often spoken of. The most

I'T.int productions of Rhodian industry were

i'ja. anna, and military engines. Besides the

kn already mentioned, the ancients notice Ilia

i Mnaiyriiun, two forts in the south, and a place

W Achaia.

t< far the most important place was the city of

naa at lbs north-eastern extremity of the island,

ns oailt in b. c 408 upon a regular plan formed

tbt architect Hippodamus, the same who built

I nlli of Peiraeeus. (Strab. xiv. p. 654; Diod.

I »5, xi - . Harpocrat. ». r.; 'ImroJoUifio.) It

■ outracted in the form of an amphitheatre

ia; fan the coast, and was protected by strong

h mi towers, while nature provided it with two

nrilent harbours. The acropolis rose at the south­

ern extremity, and on the slope of it was the

»trt According to Strabo, Rhotlus surpassed all

ar citiea for the beauty and convenience of its

V itretts, walls, and public edifices, all of which

b adorned with a profusion of works of art both

putting and sculpture. The principal statues

» a the temple of Dionysus and the gymnasium;

I the most extraordinary statue, which is de-

'ari u one of the seven wonders of the ancient

*i, was the brazen statue of Helios, commonly  
•d the Colossus of Rhodes. It was the work of

■ra of Lindas, who employed upon its execu-

I tirlre yean. It cost 300 talents, and was

e»*«t» ia height: its gigantic size may be in-

ni frtan the fact that few men were able to

wapaw one of its thumbs with their arms. (Plin.

nr. 18; Strab. t c.) The Colossus stood at the

me of one of the ports, but the statement that

''•■! astride over the entrance, and that the

f* diipa could sail between its legs, is in all

ahftty a mere fable. It was overthrown by an

ijrnte, 56 years after its erection, that is, in

* H4. or according to others a few years later,  
hny promised the Rhodians, among other things,

0 talents far its restoration (Polyb. v. 89), but

1 aal not to have been attempted in consequence

>T»c!e(Strab. L c). Later authorities, however,

* «f it aa standing erect; the emperor Com­  
bs ia said u have ordered his own bust to be

•F<*> H; and Cedrenns relates that a king of the

hva sold the fragments to a merchant who

■*ir& upwards of 900 camels to carry them

* Notwithstanding the great splendour of the  
:U number of its inhabitants does not appear

fart bam very great, for during the siege of

atrial Poliorcetes no more than 6000 citizens

d1*- of bearing arms are mentioned. (Diod. xx.

I Bat Rbodoa has nevertheless produced many

I af eminence in philosophy and literature, such

''aurtiua, Stratocles, Andronicus, Eudemus,

rr».Tmua, Peisander, Simniias, and Aristides;

a Poaeidonias, Dionysins Thrax, and Apollonius,

lined the Rhodian, resided in the island fur a

considerable time. The present town of Rhodes

contains very few remains of the ancient Greek city.

(Comp, P. D. Paulsen, Descriptio Rkodi MacetL

A.!<■',-, GBttingen, 1818; H. Rost, Hhodut, an

Hist. Arch. Fragment. Altona, 1823; Th. Menge,

Vorgeschichte ron Khodus, Coin, 1827; Rottier,

Descript. des Monuments de Rhodes, Bruxclles,

1828; Ross, Reisen auf den Grieck. I no In. iii. pp.

70—113, which, contains a good account of the

middle-age history and the present condition of the

island and city with maps and plans; Sestini, Mon.

Pet, p. 91.) [L.&]

COIN OF KHODUS.

RHODUSSA, an island off the southern coast of

Caria, near the entrance of the port of l'anonnns.

(Plin. v. 35 ; Staditum. Mar. Mag. p. 248, where

the name is written 'PoiroDcra.) It is marked in

modem charts by the name of Limosa or Kara*

gash. [L. S.]

ItHODUSSAE, a group of small islands in the

Propontis, south of Pityussa, is mentioned only by

Pliny (v. 44). [L. S.]

RHOE (Piv), a place on the coast of Bithynia,

20 stadia to the east of Calpe, on a steep promon­

tory, contained a road fit only for small vessels.

(Arrian, Peripl. P. E. p. 13; Anonym. Peripl. P. E.

p. 3.) [L. S.]

RHOETACES. [Auusia, p. 89, b.]

RHOETEUXI (to 'Pohetov or 'Porrior S«v>oi<), a

promontory, or rather a rocky headland, runuing out

in several points in Mysia or Troas, at the entrance

of the Hellespont, north of Ilion; it contained a

small town of the same name situated on an emi­

nence. The place is very often mentioned by the

ancients. (Herod, vii. 43 ; Scylax, p. 35 ; Strab.

xiii. p. 595; Steph. B. s. v.; Pomp. Mela, i. 18;

Plin. v. 33; Thucyd. iv. 52, viii. 101 r Apollon.

Rhod. i. 929; Tryphiod. 216; Virg. Aen. vi. 595;

Liv. xxxvii. 37.) The promontory is now called

fntepeh, and the site of the ancient town is believed

to be occupied by Paleo Castro, near the village

of It-ghelmcs. (Richter, Wallfahrten, p. 475;

Leake, Asia Minor, p. 275.) [L. S.]

RHOGANA ('Pdyartt, l'tol. vi. 8. § 7; Marcian,

Peripl. i. § 28, cd. Miiller), a small place on the

coast of Carmania, between the promontories of

Carpella and Alambater. It is perhaps the same

place as the Gogana of Arrian. [Gocana.] [V.]

RHOGANDA'JTI (TVyoyoaiw, PtoL vii. 4. § 9),

a tribe of ancient Ceylon, at the southern end of the

island. Ptolemy mentions that in this part of the

island were the best pastures for the elephants,

which is the case, too, at the present time. [V.]

RHOGE CVJryri), an island off the coast of

Lycia, not far from the entrance of the Phoenicus

Portus. (Plin. v. 35: Steph. B. s. r.; Stadiasm.

Mar. Mag. §§ 217, 218, where it is called Rhope,

•Pdmj.) [L. S.]

RHO'GONIS CVdryovit, Arrian, Ind. c. 39), a

river of ancient I'ersis, which flows into the Persian

