3R4 MODICIA. MOABITAE.

Lot, the fruit of his incestuous connection with his

eldest daughter. (Gen. xix. 37.) Moses has pre­

served the very early history of their country in

Deuteronomy (ii. 9—11):—"The Lord said unto

me. Distress not the Moabites, neither contend with

them in battle, for I will not give thee of their land

for a possession; because I have given Ar unto the

children of Lot for a possession. The Kmims

dwelt there in times past, a people great, and many,

and tall, as the Anakims." The Moabites, having

dispossessed these gigantic aborigines, held pos­

session of their country, which was bounded on the

north by the river Arnon, which separated tbem

from the Amorites. At an earlier period, indeed,

they had extended their conquests far to the north

of the Amon, but had been forced to retire before

the Amorites, to whom they had ceded their north­

ern conquests, even before the children of Israel came

into their coasts; and several fragments of the an­

cient war-songs relating to these times are preserved

by Moses. (Xumb. xxi. 13—15, 26—30.) The

boundary question was revived subsequently, in the

days of Jephthah, when the Amorites demanded

the restoration of the conquests that Israel had made

between the Arnon and the Jabbok south and north,

and to the Jordan westward, as of right belonging

to them, their title not having been invalidated by

300 years' occupation by the Israelites. It appears

from Jephthah's historical review of the facts, that

the Israelites had neither invaded nor occupied any

part of the territories of which Moab and Ammon

were in actual possession at the period referred to;

but only so much of their ancient possessions as

Sihon king of the Amorites had already forced

them to abandon (Judga, xi. 12—28); and it is

remarkable that the memorial of the occupation of

the territory north of Amon by the Moabites has

been preserved, through the Mosaic records, even to

this day, in the name that is popularly assigned to

that remarkable mountain district east of the Dead

Sea, which forms bo conspicuous and remarkable a

feature in the distant view from Jerusalem towards

the east, still called " the mountains of Moab,'' as in

Deuteronomy that high table land is described as

the "plains of Moab" (Dent, xxix. 1, xxxii. 49);

and JosephuK occasionally uses the name with the

same latitude, of the country north of the Arnon,

describing the Moabites as still a mighty nation of

Coelesyria (Ant i. 11. § 5); and reckoning among

the Muabite cities occupied by the Jews under Alex­

ander Jannaeus, Chesbon (Heshbon), Medaba, Pel las,

and others that lay considerably north of the Amon

(Ant. xiii. 15. § 4), although in other passages he

makes that river divide the Moabites from the

Amorites (Ant. iv. 5. § 1), and describes the

country of Moab as the southern limit of I'eraea

{II. II. Jud. ill. 3. § 3), consistently with which

notices he compares the country of the Amorites to

an inland, bounded by the Arnon on the S., the

Jablxik on the N., and the Jordan on the K.

{Ant. iv. 5. § 2.) It is then justly remarked

by Keland (PaUuttina, p. 102), that by "the plains

of Mo;il)," where the Israelites were encamped be­

fore they crossed the Jordan (Svmb. xxxiii. 48,

49, 50), which is described as being over against

Jericho, and by the "land of Moab," in which

mount Nebo is said to lie situated (l)rut. xxxii. 49,

comp. xxxiT. 1.5.6.8), it is not to be understood as

though that district was actually in possession of the

Moabites at that time; but is so called because

they formerly held it uuder their dominion. (A'uimo.

xxi. 26.) It may be added, that after it bad beta

occupied by the tribes of Gad and Keuben. to wrn-n

Moses assigned it(.\'umo. xxxii.3.33—3$).theM<«b-

iles again conquered it for a time, as it is clear tail

Eglon must have subjugated that district east of the

Jordan, before he could have possessed himself <A

Jericho, on the west of that river. (Judges, in. 11—

30.) Their long and undisturbed tenure of taeir

own proper country is forcibly described by lot

prophet Jeremiah. "Moab hath been at ease from

his youth, and he hath settled on his lees, and hub

not been emptied from vessel to vessel, neither ba!a

he gone into captivity: therefore his taste remind

in him, and his scent is not changed" (xlvuL II);

and the enumeration of its prosperous cities, in his

denunciation, indicates the populousneas and rich*

ness of the country, to which the Israelites resorted

when suffering from famine in their own must

fruitful districts (Ruth, LI), and which supplied

the market of Tyre with grain. (Eieh. xxvii. 17.)

[Minnitii.] The country is described by JoMpata

as fertile, and capable of supporting a number J

men on its produce. (Ant. iv. 5. § 1.) This account

both of its populousness and fertility is remarkably

confirmed by modem travellers, and the existing

monuments of its numerous cities. Thus Irby sal

Mangles, proceeding south from Kerek, " ascended

into a country of downs, with verdure so close as tt)

appear almost like turf, and with cornfields at inter­

vals." They passed many ruined si tea, the names

of several of which they obtained; " in short,™ iney

add, " the whole of the fine plains in this quarter

are covered with sites of towns, on every eraitisnc*

or spot convenient for the construction of one; sal

as all the land is capable of rich cultivation, then

can be little doubt that this country, now so deserted,

once presented a continued picture of plenty and

fertility n ( Travth, p. 371, compare under Juot 5,

p. 4S6); and it is to this quarter that the Arsis

referred, when they reported to Volney " that theft

are to the SK. of the lake Asphaltes, within three

! days' journey, upwards of three hundred ruined tfwas

| absolutely deserted; several have large edifices with

columns." (lb. p 310.) He indeed assigns the

country to " the Xabathaeans, the most potent of ths

Arabs and of the Idumaeans;" but the nuns art

more probably to be referred to the earlier inhabi­

tants of the country, who, we know, lived iu vttied

habitations, while the Nabathaei were a Bedcwi

tribe, living for the most part iu tents. In any case

the present aspect of the country furnishes a sink­

ing commentary on Jeremiah xlviii., e. g. "Joy ana

gladness is taken from the plentiful field, and fnaa

the land of Moab; and I have caused wine u> fad from

the wine-presses: none shall tread with »a»-a'i<j-:

their shouting shall be no shouting." (G.W.J

MOCISUS, or MOCISUM (Mawrrrar, Ma-uwl

a fort in the north western part of CappadoeU. whsca

the Kniperor Justinian, at the time when he drcn-vd

the country into three provinces, raised to the rank

of the capital of Cappadocia 11L On that occsassc

the place was considerably enlarged, and iu Bast*

was changed into Justioianopoli*. (l*mcop.<fV A*d.

v. 4; IlierocL p. 701, where it is muwritten Ti|i

Kovnovais, for 'P«7t*40u«io~o'f; Const. J'orpii. •>

Them. i. 2; Stcph. B. t. r. Mowcurirn; Cobc C'-sbs.

ii. p. 96.) It modem name is A'ir SktJtr. [V. S ]

MODICIA (-tfonw), a city of Cmlpirat Gasi.

situated on the river Lambrus, about 12 bust* X. *

Milan, the name of which is not found dons?, if*

period of the Human Empire, and it was prut-afc.* u

