N5AENESTE. 605 PRAENESTE.

inalmk lal coalition. Cicero mentions it by | conjectural. A detailed account
of tlie existing

SiolkofsCok*iia(C>c. tn Cat i. 3); and though remains, and of all that can be
traced of the plan

tin HinT nor the Liber Coloniarutii give it that | and arrangement, will be
found in Nibby. (/>iu-

torm, vol. ii. p. 494—510.)

The celebrity of the shrine or sanctuary of For­

tune at Praeneste is attested by many ancient

writers (Ovid, Fast vi. 61; Sil. Ital. viii. 366;

Lucan, ii. 194; Strab. v. p. 238), and there is no

doubt that it derived its origin from an early

period. Cicero, who speaks of the temple in his

time as one of great antiquity as well as splendour,

gives us a legend derived from the records of the

Praenestines concerning its foundation, and the in­

stitution of the oracle known as the Sortes Prae-

nestinae, which was closely associated with the

worship of fortune. (Cic. efe Div. ii. 41.) So ce­

lebrated was this mode of divination that not only

Romans of distinction, but even foreign potentates,

are mentioned as consulting them (Val. Max. i.

3. §1; I.iv. xlv. 44: Propert. iii. 24. 3); and

though Cicero treats them with contempt, as in his

t>J iflta id modem appellation of Palcstiina. I day obtaining credit only with
the vulgar, we are

lit adeni city is built almost entirely upon \ told by Suetonius that Tiberius
was deterred by

religious scruples from interfering with them, and

Domitian consulted them every year. Alexander

Severus also appears, on one occasion at least, to

• 4 the hill the summit of which was crowned i have done the same. (Suet. Tib.
63, Domit 15;

I* loaent citadel. This bill, which is of very 1 I.amprid. Alex. Sev. 4.)
Numerous inscriptions

•ImLIt elevation (being not less than 2400 | also prove that they continued to
be frequently con-

•!"v» tbe sea, and more than 1200 above its suited till a late period of the
Empire, and it was

not till after the establishment of Christianity that

the custom fell altogether into disuse. (Inscr. ap.

Bormann, pp. 212,213; Orelli, Itucr. 1756—1759.)

The Praenestine goddess seems to have been spe-

«i tome. It is this position, combined with dally known by the name of Kortuna
Priniigenia,

p»£ Oresgtli of the citadel arising from the and her worship was closely
associated with that of

the infant Jupiter. (Cic. efe I)h. L c. \ Inscr. ut

«ap.) Another title under which Jupiter was spe­

cially worshipped at Praeneste was that of Jupiter

linpemtor, and tbe statue of the deity at Rome

which bore that appellation was considered to have

been brought from Praeneste (Liv. vi. 29).

The other ancient remains which have been dis-

of wall covered at Palestrina belong to the later city or the

) to the ' colony of Sulla, and are situated in the plain at

>«t, which they evidently served to connect some distance from the foot of tbe
hill. Among

these are the extensive ruins of the villa or palace

of the emperors, which appears to have been built

by Hadrian about A. D. 134. They resemble much

tziliMo, in colonial dignity under the Empire

itodiotl.v attested by numerous inscriptions,

bap, it Coin. p. 254; Lib. Colon, p. 236;

mi/tax 1*31, 3051, etc.) A. Gellius indeed

t i >krjr tint the Praenestines applied to Tiberius

i > iiwnr to he changed from a colony into a

'£t:ium; bat ii their request was really granted,

u werts, the change could have lasted for but

■bet tine. (GelL N. A. xri. 13; Zumpt, /. c.)

lir anil souvely any mention of Praeneste to­

ut u» decline of the Western Empire, nor does

aw Spire in the Gothic wars which followed:

: i ifym t£iia ander tbe Lombard kings, and

n i cSKpicuoos part in the middle ages. At

»uaui it w»s commonly known as the Civitas

«a>'jaa, sad it is this form of the name—which

limit found in an inscription of A. D. 40S

n- /mct. 105)—that has been gradually cor-

modem appellation of Palcstiina.

city is built almost entirely upon

n ud gigantic substructions of the temple of

tsy. void), af.er its restoration and enlarge-

I b/ Sella, occupied the whole of the lower

(being not less than 2400

ri»rt tbe sea, and more than 1200 above its

Mate hue), projects like a great buttress or

k tram Oie angle of tbe Apennines towards

i^u Hills, so that it looks down upon and

» ft ranuiaud the whole of the Campagna

tod steepness of the hill on which it

k cm rendered Praeneste a position of such

■oca. Tbe site of tbe ancient citadel, on the

a: tl \lt bill u now occupied by a castle of

kite ages called Castel S. Pietro: but a con­

's* jart of tbe ancient walls still remains,

nvtai in a very massive style of polygonal

u luaeauoe, and two irregular

Da nladel above. The lower, vr modern town,

■' mewhat pyramidal manner on successive

*■ mppmed by walls or facing* of polygonal

that of the walls of the in their general style those of his villa at Tivoli,

i be no doubt that these successive > but are much inferior in preservation as
well as in

at one time belonged to the temple extent. Near them is an old church still
called

bat it is probable that they are of Sta Maria delta Villa.

It was not far from this spot that were discovered

in 1773 the fragments of a Roman calendar, sup­

posed to be the same which was arranged by the

"ter date than the time of Sulla, and pre-

!■ traad part of tbe ancient city, the streets

t aiay hare occupied these lines of terraces

as those of the modern town do grammarian Verrius Place ua, and set up by him

lanat m

'»Jrwnt day. There are in all five successive

■> Ok higbest of which was crowned by the

s«" Koruue properly vo called,—a circular

f *tta a vaulted ruof, tbe ruins of which

uli the end of the 13th century, when

termed by Pope Itoniface VIII. Below

*» a bemicyrle, or semicircular building,  
a {Mtie*, the plan of which may be still

Ii Ml fa on* of the inferior terraces there

*u» s mosaic, celebrated as one of the most  
* av atensring in existence. Various at-  
» but beta made to restore the plan and

'** -i the temple, an edifice wholly unlike any

< » kbd; but they are all to a great extent

in the forum of Praeneste. (Suet. Gramm. 17.)

They are commonly called the Kasti Praenestini, and

have been repeatedly published, first by Koggini

(fol. Romae, 1779), with an elaborate commen­

tary; and again as an appendix to the edition

of Suetonius by Wolf (4 vols. 8vo. Lips. 1802);

also in Orelli (Inscr. vol. ii. p. 379, &c). Not­

withstanding this evidence, it is improbable that

the forum of Praeneste was so far from the foot of

the hill, and its site is more probably indicated by

the discovery of a number of pedestals with honorary

inscriptions, at a spot near the SW. angle of the

modem city. These inscriptions range over a period

from the reign of Tiberius to the fifth century, thu*

