SCAMANDBIA.

SCANDIA 927

ia> Xanthoi to the yellow or brownish colour of

-a oiler (romp. It vi. 4, xxi. 8). Notwithstanding  
aa datiiict declaration of the poet that the two

un belonged to the ura« river, l'liny (v. 33)

cation* the Xanthua and Scamander as two distinct

<<s>, and describes the former as flowing into the

'rtai Achaeomm, after having joined the Simoeis.

I regard U the colour of the water, it was believed

i im even the power of dyeing the wool of sheep

ask diuk of it. (Ariatot llitL A mm. til 12;

>~ Hut. Anim. rU], 21; Plin. ii. 106; Vitruv.

a- J.I4.) Homer(/i. xxii.147, &c) sutes that the

ter had two sources dose to the city of Ilion, one

■•lief forth hot water and the other cold, and that

ur Uicae springs the Trojan women used to wash

ej rJutbes. Strabo (xiii. p. 602) remarks that in

• bme so hot spring existed in those districts; he

nher assert* that the river had only one source;

at this was far away from Troy in Mount Ida;

i lastly that the notion of its rising near Troy

'at fan the circumstance of its Sowing for some

-h under ground and reappearing in the oeigh-  
jrboud of Ilion. Homer describes the Scamander

a large and deep river (//. xx. 73, xxi. 15, xxii.

4\ and states that the Simoeis flowed into the

anandrr, which after the junction still retained tlie

a» of Scamander (ft v. 774, xxi. 124; comp.

'u. ii. 106; Herod, v. 65; Strab. xiii. p. 595).

.iai^b Homer describes the river as large and deep,

rfeiotua (vii.42) atatesthatits waters were not suf-

rti u anurd drink to the army of Xerxes. Tho

oaoder after being joined by the Siinoeis has

I s cuorse of about 20 stadia eastward, before it

^ies the eta, on the east of Cape Sigeum, the

nan .V, , Kalt, Ptolemy (v. 2. § 3), and ap-

nxly Pomp. Mela (i. 18), assign to each river its

) xouih, the Simoeis discharging itself into the

•t a point north of the mouth of the Scamander.

areonnt for these discrepancies, it must be

aaed that even at that time the physical changes

i» aspect of the country arising from the muddy

aaal* of the Scamander had produced these

Ha, or alas that Ptoleiny mistook a canal for the

under. Even in the time of Strabo the Sca-

jd>r reached the sea only at those seasons when

ra> swollen by rains, and at other times it was lost

ayihes and sand. It was from this circumstance,

I oex, before its junction with the Simoeis, a canal

which flowed in a western direction into

sea. south of Sigeum, so that the two rivers

si each other only at times when their waters

■ hifh. Plinj, who call* the Scamander a Ra­

ta rim, U in all probability thinking of the

■ canal, which is still navigable for small barges,

past at which the two rivers reach the sea is

fruity -*>~**E"^. "wing to the deposits at

ajuth, the cuast has made great advances into

an, and the Port us Achaeorum, probably a con-

rue bar, baa altogether disappeared. (Comp.

u, Aim Motor, p. 289, foil., and the various

u aaa tiaatiaea on the site and plain of ancient

t.) P«SJ

LAJIA'NDBIA, a small town of Myaia, no

« u: oated on the river Scamander in the plain

rrt (plin. *. 33; HierocL p. 662, where it is

1 -v^auaadras). Leake {Asia Minor, p. 276)

Ktsrea that it stood on a hill rising below Bu-

ascai An inacriptioa referring to this town is

rmi is the museum at Paris (Choiaeul-Gouffier,

ye Acsoreaow, torn. ii. p. 288.) [L. S.]

..01WSil>A£. [AxiutsAjt, p. 302, a.]

SCAMPAE. [IixTRiouM, VoL IL p. 36, b.]

SCANDARIUM. [Cos.]

SCANDEIA. [Cytiikra.]

SCA'NDIA (J«o*«lo) or SCANDINAVIA.

Until about the reign of Augustus the countries

north of the Cirabrian Cbersonesus were unknown

to the ancients, unless we assume with some modern

writers that the island of Thule, of which Pytheas

of Msssilia spoke, was the western part of what is

now sometimes called Scandinavia, that is Sweden

and Norway. The 6rst ancient writer who alludes

to these parts of Europe, Pomp. Mela, io the reign

of Claudius, states (iii. 3) that north of the Alois

there was an immense bay, full of large and small

islands, between which the sea fluwed in narrow

channels. No name of any of these islands is men­

tioned, and Mela only states that they were inha­

bited by the lienniones, the northernmost of the

German tribes. In snother passage (iii. 6) the

same geographer speaks of an island in the Sinus

Codanus, which, according to the common reading,

is called Codanonia, or Candanovia, for which some

have emended Scandinavia. This island is described

by him ss surpassing all others in that sea both in

Bize and fertility. But to say the least it is very doubt­

ful as to whether he alludes to the island afterwards

called Scandia or Scandinavia, especially as Mela

describes his island as inliabited by the Teutones.

The first writer who mentious Scandia and Scandi­

navia is Pliny, who, in one passage (ir. 27), like­

wise speaks of the Sinus Codanus and its numerous

islands, and adds that the largest of them was

called Scandinavia; its size, he continues, is unknown,

but it is inhabited by 500 pagi of Helleviones, who

regard their island as a distinct part of the world

(<i//< r terrarum orbit). In another passage (iii.

30) he mentions several islands to the east of Bri­

tannia, to one of which he gives the name of Scan­

dia. From the manner in which he speaks in this

latter passage we might be inclined to infer that he

regarded Scandinavia and Scandia as two different

islands; but this appearance may arise from the

fact tliat in each of the passages referred to he fol­

lowed different authorities, who called the same island

by the two names Scandia and Scandinavia. Pto­

lemy (u. 11. §§ 33, 34,35) speaks of a group of four

islands on the east of the Cimbrian Chersonesus,

which he calls the Scandiae Insulae(2*ai'o'fat J^aoi),

and of which tho largest and most eastern one is

called Scandia, extending as far as the mouth of

the Vistula. In all these accounts there is the

fundamental mistake of regarding Scandinavia as

an island, lor in reality it is connected on the north­

east with the rest of Europe. Pliny speaks of an

immense mountain, Sevo, in Scandinavia, which may

possibly be Mount Kjvlen, which divides Sweden

from Norway, and a southern branch of which still

bears the name of Seve-Itj/ggen. The different

tribes mentioned by Ptolemy as inhabiting Scandia

are the Chaedini (Xcudco'of), Phavonae (vat/drat),

Phiraesi {Qipduroi), Gutae (Toinai), Dauciones

(Aavjuwj'es), and Levoui (Aeowvot). At a later

time, Jurnandes (as Keb. Get. p. 81, &c.) enume­

rates no less than twenty-eight different tribes

in Scandinavia. Tacitus does not indeed mention

Scandia, but the Sitones and Suiones (whence the

modern name Swede*) must unquestionably be con­

ceived as the most northern among the German

tribes and as inhabiting Scandia (Germ. 44, 45).

It is well known that according to Jornandes the

Goths, and according to Paulus Diaconua (v. 2) tho

