726 ROMA.

lioarium." Bunsen, however, has assumed from the

omission that the line of wall never proceeded be­

yond the Sacellum Larnm, and that, indeed, it was

not needed; the remaining space being sufficiently

defended by a marsh or lake which surrounded

it. (Besckr. vol. i. p. 13S.) But, as the Sacellum

Larum Jay on high ground, on the top of the Yelian

ridge, this could not have been a reason for not

carrying the wall farther; and even if there was

a marsh lower down, we cannot but suppose, as

Becker observes (de Mur. p. 14), that the pomoe-

riuni must have been earned on to its termination.

Indeed the Porta Romanula, one of the gates of the

Romalean city. lay, as we shall presently see, on the

N\V. side, a Utile to the N. of the spot whence

Tacitus commences his description; and if there was

a gate there, a fortiori there was a wall.

The line described by Tacitus is that of the fur­

row, not of the actual wall; but, in the case at least

of a newly founded city, the wall must have very

closely followed this line. The space between them

— the wall being inside — was the pomoerium,

literally, " behind the wail" (post moerum — mu-

rum); and this space could not be ploughed or cul­

tivated. The line of the furrow, or boundary of the

]K>inoerium, was marked by stones or cippi. The

name pomoerium was also extended to another open

space witiiin the walls which was kept free from

buildings. The matter is very clearly explained by

I.ivy in the following passage:—" Pomoerium. verbi

vim solum intuentes, postmoerium interpretantur

esse. Est autem magis circa murum locus, quern

in condendis uibibus olim Etrusci, qua murum due-

turi casent, certis circa terminis inaugurato conse-

crabaut: ut ncque interiore parte aedifieia moetiibus

continuareiitur, quae nunc vulgo etiam coujtingunt;

et extrin>eeus pun aliquid ab liumano cultu pateret

soli. Hoc spatium, quod nequc li.itatari neque

arari fas erat, non magis quod post murum esset,

quum quod munis post id, pomoerium Romani ap-

pellarunt: et in utbis incremeuto semper, quantum

moenia processura erant, tantum termini hi eonse-

crati pi'oferebantur" (i. 44). Every city founded,

like Rome, after the Etruscan manner, had a po-

inoerium. The rites observed in drawing the boun­

dary line, called "primigenius sulcus" (Paul. Diac.

p. 2.'1G, Mllll.), were as follows: the founder, dressed in

Gabinian fashion (cinctu Galium), yoked to a plough,

on an auspicious day, a bull and a cow, t tie former

on the off »ide, the latter on the near side, and, pro­

ceeding always to the left, drew the furrow marking

the boundary of the pomoerium. There was a mys­

tical meaning in the ceremony. The bull on the

out-ide denoted that the males were to be dreadful

to external enemies, whilst the cow inside typified

the women who were to replenish the city with in­

habitants. (J..ann. I.ydus, de Mens, iv. 50.) The

furrow represented the ditch; the clods thrown up,

the wall; and persons followed the plough to throw

inwards thane cludfl which had fallen outwards. At

the plates left for the gates, the plough was lifted

up and carried over the piotane space. (Van*. /,. L.

v. § 143, Mttll.; Plut Q.R. 27, Horn. 11.) The

whole process has been summed up in the following

vigorous words of Cato: — " Qui urbem novam con-

det, tauro et race* aret; ubi araverit, murum faciat;

ubi i>ortam vult esse, aratrum sustollat et ]*>rtct,

et j«»rtam vocet." (<ip. Isidor. xv. 2, .'J.)

The religious use of the poniociiuin was to define

the boundary of the auspicia urbana, or city au­

spices. (Varr. I c.) So Gellius, from the books of

the Roman augurs: "Pomoerium est lxu3 na

agrum eiTatum per totius urbis circuit urn pa* tram

regionibus certis detennmatus, qui Cidt UuH

urbani auspicii" (z'ui. 14). From this fwort i

j appears that the pomoerium itself stood

another district called the ** agtr effatua"

was also merely a religious, or augural, drnsa

territory, and was of five .-. viz. the ager 1

man us. Gabinus. peregrinus, bosticus, and i

or the Roman, Gabinian, foreign, hostile, mid i

territories. (Varr. r. § 33, WiilL) Theat

territories were called " effati," because the

declared (effati sunt) after this manner tort

of the celestial auguries taken beyond the j

num. (Id. vi. § 53, Mull.) Hence in this »

Ager I Ionian us is merely a religions or:

division, and must not be confounded with the i

'Komanus in a political sense, or the territory i

belonging to the Roman people. It was that

declared by the augurs as that in which j

auguries might be taken respecting foreigna

tary affairs; and hence the reason why we find so mM

accounts of generals returning to Borne to taktfl

| auguries afresh. (Liv. via. 30, z. 3, ixii. 19,J

It is impossible to determine exactly how ■

space was left for the pomoerium between tatll

row and the wall. In the case of the Laaai

city, however, it was probably not Terr oJsm

as the nature of the ground, especially on the j

of Mons Caelius, would not allow of acy d

divergence from the base of the hill. Beddta^

boundaries already laid down on the N.

Sacellum Larum and Aedes Vestae, show that atafl

ran very close under the Palatine. This <p*4

depends upon another, which there is no erJaua]

determine satisfactorily, namely, whether ta* 9J

crowned the summit of the hill or ran aku£ it* *

The former arrangement seems the

both because it was the most natural and i

of fortification, and because we should <

some parts hardly find room enough for the p

Besides, one at least of the gates of the Ba

city, as wc shall see further on, was appnaat

steps, and must therefore hare stood upon a <

There seems to be no good authority for SfidH

assumption (IIUt. vol. i. p. 287, set}.) that tb» <■

city of Romulus was defended merely by the m

of the hill being escarpe>l, and that the Uncefl

pomoerium was a later enlargement to mfM

suburb which had sprung up round mboattalfl

It is surprising how Niebuhr, who bad «■!

ground, could imagine that there wis room ftrfl

a suburb with a pomoerium. Beside*, we *rt j

pressly told by Tacitus (/. c.) that the l.rse ail

pomoerium which he describes wa» tie Vpjoafli

building the city (iuitium condeDdi). Ir.Jcodl

buhr seems to have had some cx.;ra»ri;ury 1

respecting the nature of the ground aboaftl

Palatine, when lie describes the spare betweesj

hill and the Caelius, now occupied by taatl

called Via di S. Grtgorio, u ht wide an! I

venient plain!" (Hist i. 390, cf. ju 39l.)_J

obscure tradition is mentioned indeed fcv fl

writers, according to which there waa a Jj

Quadrata distinct from and older than the el

Romulus (wpo 5t rqs ^iryoAni Tai/rajr Twum

tuTiiK 'PwuvKos irtpl ttji' eawrriiXM mmxt

opti UaXar'uff, TeTpaVj-wror ht,;^ 'P»-?

'PtM^iOV f) 'PlL-flOVS WaAOiOTffMV TSVTM*,

Ca«s. Fr. Votes. 3, 5, p. 10, St; cf. T^ataei

Lycophr. v. 1232). But, as Becker oUerrea (A

