KTLUS.

433 NILUS.

Slime have, in the coarse of ages, converted into

Lower Aegypt. In all historical periods, however, the

river has discharged itself into the sea by two main

arms, forming the aides of an isosceles triangle, the

boundaries of the Delta proper, and by a number of

branches, some of which ran down to the sea, while

others discharged their waters into the principal

arms of the main stream. The Delta is, indeed, a

net-work of rivers, primary and secondary; and is

further intersected by numerous canals. The pri­

mary channels were usually accounted by the an­

cients srven in number (Herod, ii. 17; Scylax,

p. 43; Strab. xvii. p.801,seq.; Diodor. i. 33; Ptol.

iv. 5. § 10; Plin. v. 10. s. 11; Mela, i. 9. § 9;

Ammianos, xxii. 15, 16; Wilkinson, M. 4 C, Mod.

Egypt and Thebes. Sfc), and may be taken in the

ord*.T following. They are denominated from some

principal city seated on their banks, and are enume­

rated from E. to W.

1. Beginning from the E.. was the Pelusian

arm (to ntKowriatcbv <rr6fia. Strab. xvii. p, 801;

Ostium Pelusiacum, Plin. v. 9. s. 9). This has

now become dry; and even when Strabo wrote a

hale before the first century a. d., Pelusium, which

etood on its banks, and from which it derived its

name, was nearly 2 J miles from the sea (xvii. p.

806). The remains of the city are now more than

four times that distance, Upon the banks of the

Pelusian arm stood, on the eastern side, and near

the apex of the Delta, Heliopolis, the On of Scrip-

itire; and 20 miles lower down, Bubastus (Tel

Barta).

21 The Tanitic arm (to TaviTUchv irr6fia, or to

ZaiTiif&r, Herod, ii. 17; comp. Strab. xvii. p. 802;

>IpU, i. 9. § 9. Catapystum). The present canal of

Moneys probably coincides nearly with the Tanitic

branch; which, however, together with the Ostium

Bacolicum, has been absorbed in the lower portion

of its course by the lake Menzaleh. It derived its

name from Tanis, the Zoan of Scripture, the modern

Ana, in lat. 31°, one of the oldest cities of the Delta.

3. The Mendesian ann (to M«'67;*t(o*' m<>f.ia,

StraK, &c.) was a channel running from the Seben-

nytie Nile-arm. It is now lost in the lake Men-

mkk.

4. The Phatnitic or Pathmetic arm (to *ot-

rrrurOF arofia, Strab.; ♦aTTiaov, Diod. i. 33;

naBinrruchv, Ptol. iv. 5. §§ 10, 40; Pathmeticum,

Mela, i. 9. § 9.) This was the Bovko\ikuv arofux

of Herodotus (ii. 17); but it seems doubtful whether

it wtre an original channel, and not rather a canal.

It ewTf^poods with the lower portion of the present

Iktmiftta branch of the Nile.

5. The Sebennytic arm (to "2.i$*vvvTiKbv ar6/ui)

derived, its name from the city of Sebennytus, the

present Semenhoud. As far as this city the Dami-

*tu% branch represents the ancient Sebennytic; but  
northward of this point, lat. 31°, the earlier channel

is lost in the marshes or sands, which separate the

present Delta from the Mediterranean; and its mouth,

which was nearly due N. of Memphis, is now covered

fey the lake of Bovrhs. The Sebennytic arm, con­

tinuing in the direction of the Nile before its divi-

mm, L e. running nearly in a straight course from

K-, has some claims to be regarded not so much as

ene of the diverging branches as the main stream

h*elf. This channel, together with the most easterly,

tb* Peluiian, and the most westerly, the Canopic,

wfre the three main amis of the Nile, and carried

dowrn to the sea by far the greater volumes of

waier.

VOL IL

6. The Bolbitic or Bolbitine arm (rb Bo\6tTtKby

o-to/ux, Strab. xvii. p. 803; Scyl. p. 43; or BoXSirtrbv,

Herod, ii. 17; Diodor. i. 33; BoMirivov, Ptol. iv.

5. §§ 10, 43; Bolbiticuin, Mela, i. 9. § 9; Am-

mian. xxii. 15), was, like the Phatnitic, originally

an artificial canal, and seems in the time of Hero­

dotus to have been a branch connecting the Seben­

nytic with the Canopic channels (ii. 17), having,

however, an outlet of its own, probably as a back­

water during the inundation, to the Mediterranean.

The Bolbitic arm is now represented by so much of

the Rosetta branch of the Nile as runs between the

sea and the ancient course of the Ostium Cano­

pic urn.

7. The Canopic arm (to KavotSucbv <rr6fiat Strab.

/. c; comp. Aristot. Meteorol. i. 14; Ostium Cano-

picum, Mela, i. 9. § 9; Plin. v. 10. s. 11) was also

termed the Naucratic arm of the Nile, Ostium Nau-

craticum (Plin. /. c), from the city of Naucratis,

which was seated on its left bank. This was the most

westerly, and one of the three great branches of the

Nile (see Pelusian, Sebennytic). In the first portion

of its descent from the point of the Delta the Canopic

arm skirted the Libyan desert. At the city of Tere-

nuthis (Teranieh), a road, about (38 miles in length,

through the calcareous ridge of hills, connected it

with the Natron Lakes. On its right bank, below

this point, stood the ancient city of Sais, and a few

miles lower down, Naucratis. From its vicinity, at

first, to this city, the Canton of Aegypt, and after­

wards, by means of the canal which connected it

with the lake Mareotis on the one hand, and Alex­

andria on the other, the Canopic branch retained

its importance; and its embankments were the cure

of the government of Aegypt long after its rival

branches, the Sebennytic and Pelusian, were deserted

or had been suffered to flow uselessly into the

marshes. It is now represented in the upper por­

tion of its channel by the Rosetta branch of the ^ile.

But they diverge from each other at lat. 31°, where

the elder arm turned off to the W., and discharged

itself into the Mediterranean near the present bay and

foreland of Aboukir. Its mouth is now covered by a

shallow lagoon, intersected by strips of sand and allu­

vial deposit, called the lake of Madieh. The Ca­

nopic arm of the Nile, although not actually the

western boundary of Aegypt, was, at least, in the

Pharaonic era, the limit of" its commerce on the NW.

base of the Delta, since beyond it, until the building

of Alexandria, there was no town of any importance.

The canals which were derived from the Nile for

the convenience of local intercourse and irrigation,

were very numerous; and the prosperity of Aegypt,

especially on the Arabian side of the river, depended

in great measure upon their being kept in good re­

pair, and conveying to the arid waste a sufficient

supply of water. Hence the condition of the canals

was almost synonymous with the good or bad admi­

nistration of Aegypt; and we find that among the

first cares of Augustus, after adding this kingdom to

his provinces, in b. c, 24, was to repair and rehabi­

litate the canals, which had fallen into decay under

the misrule of the later Ptolemies. (Suet. Avg. 18;

Dion. Ii. 68; Aurel. Vict. Epit. i. 5.) For national

commerce, however, there were only two of these

artificial channels upon a large scale between Syene

and the sea. (1.) The canal called, in different

ages, the river of Ptolemy (nToAt^oTos woruft6st

Diodor. i. 33; Plin. v. 29. s. 23), and the river of Tra­

jan (Tpai'avbs trora^os, Ptol. iv. 5. § 54). This had

been commenced by Pharaoh Xecho II. (is. c.480), was

T P

