828 ROMA. ROMA.

Isis and Sebapis, from which the Region derived

its name, but tlie history of tlie temple is unknown.

The same remark applies to the Moneta men­

tioned in this Region, which seems to have been

the imperial mint. (Preller, Reg. p. 124.) It is

mentioned in inscriptions of tlie lime of Trajan.

(Marini, Attt, <jc. p. 488.) The Summum Cho-

kagu m is inexplicable. The Lacus Pastokum

or Pastoris was a fountain near the Colosseum,

as appears from the Acta Sanctorum (in Etue-

bio). The Do.mus Bkctti Phaesentis probably

lay on the Esquiline. Marcus Aurolius affianced

Commoduswith the daughter of a Bruttus Praesens.

(Capitol. M. Anton. Ph. c. 27.) A Porticus Clau­

dia stood at the extremity of Nero's golden house,

not far from the colossus of that emperor:—

"Claudia dirlusas ubi porticos explicat umbras

Ultima pars aulae deficient is erat."

(Mart, de Spec. 2.)

It is mentioned by the Anonym us Einsiedlensis and

in the Mirabilia under the name of "Palatium

Claudii," between the Colosseum and S. Pietro in

Vincoli. The Ludcs Magncs was a gladiatorial

school apparently near the Via di S. Giovanni.

(Canina, Indie, p. 108.) The Schola Ql'AEstorum

et Caplatori'M or Capclatokum seems to have

been an office for the scribes or clerks of the quaes­

tors, as the Schola Xantha on the Capitoline was for

those of the curule aediles. The Capulatores were

those officers who had charge of the capides or capu-

lae, that is, the bowls with handles used in sacrifices

(Van*. L.L. v. § 121); but where this schola may

have been cannot be said. The Castra Misena-

tium were the city station for what we may call the

marines, or soldiers attached to the fleet and naval

station at Misenmn, established by Augustus. (Tac.

Ann. iv. 5: Suet. Aug. 49.) This camp appears

to have been situated near the church of S. Vito and

Via MtvuJana, where also there was an aedicnla of

Neptune. (Canina, Indicaz, p. 110.) The Balneum

Daphnidis, perhaps alluded to by Martial (iii. 5. 6),

was probably near tlie Subura and Carinae. Lastly

the Lacus Orphki, or fountain of Orpheus, seems to

have lain near the church of S. Lucia, which bore

the epithet in Or/to, or, as the Anonymous calls it,

in Orthea. It is described in the lines of Martial,

in which he desires Thalia to carry his book to

Pliny (x. 19. 4, acq.):—

"I, pcrfer, brevis est labor peractae

Altum vincere tramitem Suburae.

Illic Orpliea protenus videbis

Udi vert ice lubricum theatri,

Mirantesque feras avemque regis

Kaptum tjuae Phryga pertulit Tonanti.

Illic parva tui domus Pedonis

Caelata est aquilae minore penna."

From this description it would appear that the

fountain was in a circular basin — for such seems to

be the meaning of" udutn theatrum/' because a

statue of Orpheus playing on the lyre stwul high in

the midst of the baMn, wet and shining with spray,

and surrounded by the fascinated beasts as an

audience. (Becker, Jlandb. p. 559, note.) The

Mtiuitioii of the fountain near the church mentioned

is very clearly indicated in these line*. As Martial

lived on the bouthern extremity of the Quirinal the

way frum his house to that spot would of course lie

through the Subura. At the top of the street lead­

ing through it, which, as we have seen, tmiBt bi**

been the Vicus Cyprins, a short bat steep vm.

brought the pedestrian to the top of the LV.d:*.

where the first object that met his ej« L»

fountain in question. The locality b ider-.t-.6ad tf

another poem of Martial* addressed to IWov «a»

also lived on tlie Esquiline (v. 22. 4 ):—

"Alta Suburani vincenda est semiu clhi

Et nunquam sicco sordida uu erado;*

where we must not take Clivus Saburtm» to

the name of a road, like Clivus CapitcTjus. FV.»

cius, &c, but merely a synonymous apf»iiaun «-i

what Martial calls "alt us trames" id tie <um

poem. It may be further observed that tLa

tion of the fountain agrees with the erar- i

NotitiOy where it is named immediately be:« U*

Macellum Livianum. Close to it lav tbe a

house formerly inhabited by Pedo Albjncrusa wi

in Martial's time tlie residence of hi* fnsai tit

younger Pliny.

XII. The Coli.es. or the VnrrxAi. ijoEXUL

AND PlKClAS HlLLS.

We have already remarked that the three a**-

ernmost hills of Kome were called t\»tf«. in oceaa-

distinction to the othei's. which were ca/.ed J^m

Only two of the former, the Viminal and ifL:tsa*

were enclosed within the walls of Serv:os In^m

and considered as pmperly belonging to the czr

but part of the Piocian was included woLa ^

walls of Aurelian.

The Colus Viminalis, the smallest cf ta

three hills, is separated from the Fscailine fc* a

valley through which ran the Vicus. Patn.c:;» a

by a hollow running towards the rampart of Seevai

On the other side, towards tbe Ljuirinal. »

valley, which divides it from that hill, at fraei

traversed by the streets called Via de S^rpemum

Via di S. Vitale. Tlie most northern part a -

valley, through which the latter street rnca, m

the ancient Vallts C>l*lRI?(i (Jur. ii. I33i IS

hill derived its name from the osiers with ii

was anciently covered ("dictum a viimne r>*jts

Id. iii. 71); and upon it was an Altai: or Jir*n

ViMiNALis, answering to the Jupter FaraUJii

the K.squiline, (Varr. L. L. v. § 51; Fes*, v

The Viminal was never a district of rou-i. it ^

ance, and seems to have been chierh inbaair*, \

the lower classes. The only rerusrWai-ie *c_«.a

which we find recorded on it is the spieooJ fi

LACE of C. AquiUL'S (Plin. xvii. 2\ 14 *

ence of some baths of ALrnpj«nji uj>tn it rwo fl

on traditions of the middle ages. The

Diocletian, which lav on the ridge wtnrh untftil

Viminal and Quirinal, will he described a t

section on the thermae. The Sackli.i it or N*

NLA lav without the Porta Viminaiii. (F*a*

p. 163.)

After the Palatine and Capitoline bilk, i» ^

rinal was the most ancient qtarter erf ta- ej

As the seat of the Sabine part of tbe paqu&m

Rome, it acquired imptirtaiKW in the pcr»c t

early history, which however it did do* retail *<

tlie two nations had become thorvuchlr .1: i'^trac

The Quirinal is separated from the IHrvtiai m i

N. by a deep valley; its wpstern t*ie H

the Campus Marti us; the manner in w h*. <

I parted from the Viminal by tbe Vallta t^n: n t

I been already described. Tbe street wlm I

