KTS80& OASES. 457

l h Eabcn, where the vine was said to put

M bm and bear fruit the same day. (Steph.

lit)

4 Is the island of Xaxos. (Steph. B. *. r.)

XftfiOS, [Ntoa, in Europe, No. 2.]

0.

'AEKECM, a town of the Penestae, situated on

i -m ifidine into the country of the Labeates,

vUkffwinked a narrow pass, formed by n moun-

'i . tad the riTcr Aktatls. It was taken by

Arm a the campaign of b. c 169. (Liv. xliii.

tt.) [K. B.J.]

UAEOXES (Mela, iii. 6- § 8; Solin. 19. § 6) or

fr'.ViE (Pan. ir. 13. a. 27), islands in the Baltic

rf tie cost of Sarmatia, the inhabitants of which

w to lire on the eggs of birds and wild oats.

OAATS ('flam, Pind. 01 v. 25: Frascolari),

11 mi rmr oo the S. coa*t of Sicily, flowing beneath

fc«*a»rfCaoiarina. [Camakina ] [E. H. B.]

'■mCTA. [Ogyku.]

wkTi [Rha.]

visES fOaVtn or Audffm, Strab. ii. p. 130,

J': ;i 'SO— 79I: A/Soots w^Aij Ait^ttov, Stepb.

*4t.: Awtffrr/f or Auatrrris), was the gene-  
U vputtioQ among ancient writers given to spots

'u^jWidb' cultivable land lying in the midst of

■ai; *wrta; but it was more especially applied to

a» Tcoaat and well-watered tracts of the Libyan

■■^ 'Atci connect Uke stepping-stones Eastern

^ «:wa and Southern Africa. The word Oasis

l4nr»d Iran the Coptic Ouah (mansio), a restiog-

^ (ftynai. Laic. Ling. Copt. t. e.) Kant,

p(/V.C«y. toL ii. pt. I. p. 349), traces it,

W ^» probabibtT, to the Arabic Ifawa, a habita­

ts, a; A (f /i a wilderness (comp. the Uebrew

«*i Tber physical circumstances, rather than

w '• ra,««, or position, constitute an Oasis; and

P *ra a applied indifferently to kingdoms like

awl phaiauia (/eezem) and to petty.slips of

^ ttcfa at the Oasis of El-Gerah. which is

'' w ar fiv» ouiei in circumference. The ancient

tacribed them as verdant islands, rising

* ue ocean of sand, and by their elevation  
l"l ton being buried by it with the rest of the

*** wL Herodotus, for example (iv. 182),

» tir from rising above the level of the

V* <_tus are actually depressions of its sur-

F** feaOows in the general bed of lime-

* '-^ f-jfnsi its basis. The bottom of the  
P • ^ eadatece. on which rests a stratum of

and these retain the water, which

to them tiirough the surrounding

from the edges of the limestone

1 weuties these isolated spots, like a

Within these moist hollows springs a

'x**eotifig the most striking contrast to

*1 tarpenneas of the encircling wilderness.  
1 TiruM kinds and considerable girth,

and fruit trees, flourish in the

with their verdant pastures

'-' tam the spallation of " the Islands of

(Herod, iii. 26.) Both commercially

jjfrpt?. tin Quaes were of the greatest im-

» Arhiojaa and Aegypt, which they con-

|l*wfc the gftid aitd ivory regions of the south,

aetivt traffic of Carthage in the west.

E*^<a these kingdoms lost no opportunity of

pushing their emporia or colonies eastward towards

the Red Sea and the Regio Aromatum, there is no

positive monumental proof of their having occu­

pied the Oases, at least while under their native

rulers. Perhaps the difficulty of crossing the desert

before the camel was introduced into Aegypt—and

the camel never appears on the Pharaonic monu­

ments—may have prevented them from appropria­

ting these outposts. The Persians, after their con­

quest of Aegypt in n. c. 523, were the first permanent

occupants of the Oases. Cambyses, indeed, failed in

his attempt to reach Ammonium (SrirnA); but his

successor Dareius Hystaspis established his authority

securely in many of them. At the time when

Herodotus visited Aegypt, the Oases were already

military or commercial stations, permeating Libya

from the Ked Sen to the Atlantic Ocean. Under the

Ptolemies and the Cnesars, they were garrisoned

by the Greeks and Romans, and were the seats of a

numerous fixed population, as well as the halt­

ing-places of the caravans; under the persecu­

tions of the Pagan emperors, they afforded shelter to

fugitives from the magistrate; and when the church

became supreme, they shielded heretics from their

orthodox opponents.

The natural productions of these desert-islands

will be enumerated under their particular names.

One article of commerce f indeed, was common to

them. Their alum was imported by the Aejryptians,

as essential to many of their manufactures. Amasis,

according to Herodotus (ii. 180), contributed 1U00

talents of alum towards the rebuilding of the temple

at Delphi; and the alum of U-Khargeh (Oasis

Magna) still attracts and rewards modern .specula­

tors. Herodotus describes the Oases as a chain ex­

tending from E. to \Y. through the Libyan Desert.

He indeed comprehended under tuls term all the

habitable spots of the Sahara, and says that they

were in general ten days' journey apart from one

another (iv. 181). But it is more usual to consider

the following only as Oases proper. They are. with

reference to Aegypt, five in number; although, in­

deed. Strabo (xviii. p. 1168) speaks of only three,

the Great, the Lesser, and that of Ammon.

1. Ammonium (El-Siwah'), is the most northerly

and the most remote from the Kile. There seem to

have been two roads to it from Lower Aegypt; for

when Alexander the Great visited the oracle of

Ammon, he followed the coast as far as Paraetonium

in Libya, and then proceeded inland almost in a

direct northerly line. (Arrian. Anab. iii.4; Quint.

Curt. iv. 33.) He appears, however, to have re­

turned to the neighbourhood of Memphis by the

more usual route, viz. a WSW. road, which passes

the Natron Lakes [MmOAl] and runs to Teranieh,

on the Rosetta branch of the Nile. (Minutoli, Jour­

ney to the Temple of Jupiter Ammon.) There is

some difficulty in understanding llerodotus's account

of the distance between Thebes and Ammonium.

He says that they are ten days' journey apart.

(Kennell, Geogr. of Herod, vol. i. p. 577.) But the

actual distance between them is 400 geographical

miles; and as the days journey of a caravan never

exceeds twenty, and is seldom more than sixteen

of these miles, double the time allowed by him —

not ten, but twenty days—is required for performing

it. Either, therefore, a station within ten days'

journey of Upper Aegypt has been dropt out of the

text of Herodotus, or he must intend another Oasis,

or El-SitcaJi is not the ancient Ammonium. If we

bear in mind, however, that the Greater Oasis (£.7-

