as JERUSALEM. JERUSALEM.

city into .the four quarters by which it is usually

di>tinguished.

These four quarters are: — (1) The Armenian

Quarter at the S\V.; (2) the Jew's Quarter at the

SE.,—both these being on Mount Sion ; (3) the

Christian Quarter at the N\V.; (4) the Mahometan

Quarter, occupying the remainder of the city on

the west and north of the great Haram-es-Sherif,

the noble Sanctuary, which represents the ancient

Temple area. The Mosk, which occupies the

grandest and once most venerated spot in the world,

is, tn its architectural design and proportions, as it

was formerly in its details, worthy of its site. It

was built for Abd-el Melik Ibn-Marwan, of the

house of Oinmiyah, the tenth khalif. It was com­

menced in a. l). 688, and completed in three years,

and when the vicissitudes it has undergone within

a space of nearly 1200 years are considered, it is

perhaps rather a matter of astonishment that the

fabric should have been preserved so entire than

that the adornment should exhibit in parts marks

of ruinous decay.

The Church of Justinian, — now the Mosk El-

Aksa,—to the south of the same area, is also

a conspicuous object in the modern city; and the

Church of the Holy Sepulchre, with its appen­

dages, occupies a considerable space to the west.

The greater part of the remaining space is occupied

with the Colleges or Hospitals of the Moslems, in

the vicinity of the Mosks, and with the Monasteries

of the several Christian communities, of which the

Patriarchal Convent of St. Constantino, belonging to

the Greeks, near the Church of the Holy Sepulchre,

and that of the Armenians, dedicated to St. James,

on the highest part of Mount Sion, are the most

considerable.

The population of the modern city has been

variously estimated, some accounts stating it as

low as 10,000, others as high as 30,000. Il may

be safely assumed as about 12,000, of which num­

ber nearly half are Moslems, the other half being

composed of Jews and Christians in about equal

proportions. It is governed by a Turkish pasha,

and is held by a small garrison. Most of the Eu­

ropean nations arc there represented by a consul.

VI. Envihons.

A few sites of historical interest remain to be

noticed in the environs of Jerusalem: as the valleys

which environ the city have been sufficiently de­

scribed at the commencement of the article, the

mountains may here demand a few words.

The Scopus, which derived its name, as Joseph us

informs us, from the extensive view which it com­

manded of the surrounding country, is the high

ground to the north of the city, beyond the Tombs

of the Kings, 7 stadia from the city (B. J. ii. 19.

J 4t v. 2. § 3), where both Ostitis and Titus first

encamped on their approach t» the city (//. cc.):

this range is now occupied by a village named

SMa/tkdt, — the Semitic equivalent to the Greek

aK<rr6i. On the east of the city is the Mount of

Olives, extending along the whole length of its

eastern wall, conspicuous with its three summits, of

which the centra is the highest, and is crowned with

a pile of buildings occupying the spot where Helena,

the mother of Constant me, built a Basilica in cora-

imrn-jration of the Ascension of our Lord. (Ku-

aebiua, Vita Conttamtmi, iii* 12, Loudtt, § 9.)

A little below the southern summit is a remarkable

gallery of sepulchral chambers arranged in a semi-

circle concentric with a circular funnel-shaped hall

24 feet in diameter, with which it is connected by

three passages. They are popularly called ** the

Tombs of the Prophets," but no satisfactory account

has been given of these extensive excavations.

(Plans are given by Schultz, Kraft, and Tobler, in

the works referred to below.) Dr. SchulU was in­

clined to identify this with the rock ntptaTfipun*,

mentioned by Joseph us in his account of the Wall

of Circumvallation (B. J. v. 12), which he supposes

to be a translation of the Latin Columbarium. (See

Vict. Ant. art. Funus, p. 561, b.)

In the bed of the Valley of Jehoshaphat, inv

mediately beneath the centre summit of Mount

Olivet, where the dry bed of the brook Kedron is

spanned by a bridge, is tbe Garden of Gethscmane,

with its eight venerable olive-trees protected by a

stone wall; and close by is a subterranean church,

in which is shown the reputed tomb of the Virgin,

who, however, according to an ancient tradition,

countenanced by the Council of Ephesus (a. d. 431),

died and was buried in that city. (I^abbe, Concilia,

torn. iii. col. 573.)

A little to the south of this, still in the bed of

the valley, arc two remarkable monolithic sepul­

chral monuments, ascribed to Absalom and Zeclianah,

exhibiting in their sculptured ornaments a mixture

of Doric, Ionic, and perhaps Egyptian architecture,

which may possibly indicate a change in the original

design in conformity with later taste. Connected

with these are two scries of sepulchral chambers,

one immediately behind the Pillar of Absalom, called

by the name of Jehothaphat; the other between the

monoliths, named the Cant of St. James, which last

is a pure specimen of the Doric order. (See A

General View in Holy City, vol. it. p. 449, and

detailed plans, Ac. in pp. 157, 158, with Professor

WillU's description.)

To the south of Mount Olivet is another rocky

eminence, to which tradition has assigned the name)

of the Mount of Offence, as " the hill before Jeru­

salem" where king Solomon erected altars for idola­

trous worship (I King*, xi. 7). In the rocky lose

of this mount, overhanging the Kedron, is tbe rock-

hewn village of Siloam, chiefly composed of sepul­

chral excavations, much resembling a Columbarium,

and most probably the rock Periston urn of Joseph us.

Immediately below this village, on the opposite >idr

of the valley, is the intermitting Fountain of the

Virgin, at a considerable depth below the bed

of the valley, with a descent of many steps

hewn in the rock. Its supply of water is very

scanty, and what is not drawn off here runs through

the rocky ridge of Opbel, by an irregular passage,

to the Pool of Siloam in the mouth of the Tyro-

poeon. This pool, which is mentioned in the New

Testament {St. John, ix. 7, &&), is now filled with

earth and cultivated as a garden, a small tank with

columns built into its side serves the purpose of a

po«>l, and represents the '* quadriportirurn * of the

Bordeaux Pilgrim (a. d. 333), who also mentions

"Alia piscina grand is forma." This was probably

identical with Hezekiaha Pool "between the two

walls" (/*. xxii. 11), as it certainly is with the

"Pool of Siloah by tbe king's garden" in Nehemiah

(iii. 15, ii. 14; com p. 2 Amos, xxr. 4. Tbe argu­

ment* are fuliy stated in the Holy City, vol. ii.

pp. 474— 48a M. do Saub-y accepts the identifi­

cation.) The king's gardens are still represented

in a verdant spot, where the concurrence of the

three valleys, liinnom, Jeboabsphat, and Tyroputon

