MESSANA. 835 MESSANA.

subjection by Anaxilas must have occurred some

years prior to his death in B. a. 476. It is certain

that «t that period he had been for some time rnler

both «t Rhegium and Zancle, the latter of which,

according to one account, he had placed under the

nominal government of his son Cleophron or Lco-

pbroo. (Diod. xi. 48; Schol. ad Piml Pyth. ii. 34.)

It is certain, also, that before the close of his reign

Zancle had assumed the name of Messene or Mes-

sana, by which it has ever since been known. The

error of Pausanias, who carries back the whole set­

tlement, and with it the reign of Anaxilas to the

close of the Second Mcssenian War, B. c. 668, has

been sufficiently refuted by Bentley (Diss, on Pha-

laris, pp. 204—224.) It is probable that he con­

founded the Second Measenian War with the Third,

which was really contemporaneous with the reign of

Anaxilas (Clinton, F.H. vol. i. p. 257); ar.d it is

not unlikely that some fugitives from the latter were

imonj the fresh settlers established by Anaxilas at

the time of the colonisation of Messana. It is pro­

bable also that the Samians were by no means

absolutely expelled, as stated by Thucydides, but

continued to inhabit the city together with the new

colonists, thongh deprived of their exclusive ascend -

mcT. (Herod, rii. 164; Siefert, ZancU-Masana,

p. 16.)

The Messanians for some time followed the for­

tunes of their neighbours of Rhegium: they passed,

after the death of Anaxilas, under the government

of Micythus, and subsequently of the two sons of

Anajilaj: but, after the death of Hieron, and the ex­

pulsion of his brother Thrasybulus from Syracuse,

tbey took the opportunity, in conjunction with the

other cities of Sicily, to drive out their despots and

«-*rt their freedom and independence, B. c. 461.

(Dial xi. 59, 66, 76.) A large body of the

fcrripi settlers, who had been introduced into Sicily

by the tyrants, were upon this occasion established

io the territory of Messana, a proof that it was at

ticis period still thinly peopled; but the city seems

to Dare participated largely in the prosperity which

the Sicilian republics in general enjoyed during the

p-riod that followed, B.C. 460 — 410. The great

fertility of its territory, and the excellence of its

pst, were natural advantages which qualified it to

become one of the 6rst cities of Sicily: and this ap­

pears to have been the case throughout the jieriod in

ijuestion. In b. c. 426, their tranquillity was, how­

ever, interrupted by the arrival of the Athenian fleet

onder Laches, which established itself at Khegium,

a: the opposite side of the straits; and from thence

rraje an attack on Mylae, a fortress and dependency

of the Messanians, which, though occupied by a

strong earrUon, was compelled to surrender. Laches,

v:th bis allies, hereupon marched against Messana

Hath", which was unable to resist so large a force,

and was compelled to accede to the Athenian

allicnee. (Thuc iii. 86, 90; Diod. xii. 54.) But

t» aeit year (b. c. 425) the Messanians hastened

to desert their new alliance, and join that of the

Sytvasans; and from thenceforth their port became

"« chief naval station of the combined Syracusan

ami Locrian fleets. (Thuc. iv. 1, 24, 25.) They

thrnjeltea, also, on one occasion, took courage to

Kale a vigorous attack on their Chalcidic neigh-

»wjn> of Xaios, and were able to defeat the Na-

*-"* themselves, and shut them up within their  
»>'j; but were in their turn defeated by the Sicu-

hata ind Leontines, who had hastened to the relief

<i Kara, and who for a short time laid siege, but

without effect, to Messana itself. (Thuc. iv. 25.)

The Messanians were included in the general pacifi­

cation of Sicily, B. c. 424; but were themselves still

divided by factions, and appear at one time to have

for a short period passed under the actual dominion

of the Locrians. (Id. v. 5.) At the time of the

Athenian expedition to Sicily (b. c. 415) they were

again independent, and on that occasion they per­

sisted in maintaining a neutral position, though in

vain solicited by the Athenians on one side, and

the Syracusans on the other. An attempt of the

former to make themselves masters of the city by

treachery proved wholly ineffectual. (Diod. xiii. 4;

Thuc. vi. 48, 74.) A few years later, the Messa­

nians afforded a hospitable refuge to the fugitives

from Himera, when that city was taken by the

Carthaginians, B. c 409 (Died. xiii. 61), and sent

an auxiliary force to assist in the defence of Agri-

gentum against the same people. (Id. 86.)

It appears certain that Messana was at this

period, one of the most flourishing and considerable

cities in Sicily. Diodorus tells us, that the Messa­

nians and Khegians together could equip a fleet of

not less than 80 triremes (xiv. 8); and their combined

forces were viewed with respect, if not with appre­

hension, even by the powerful Dionysius of Syracuse.

(Id. 44.) 'But though unfavourably disposed

towards that despot, the Messanians did not share in

the strong sympathies of the Khegians with the

Chalcidic cities of Naxos and Catana [Khegium],

and pursued an uncertain and vacillating policy.

(Diod. xiv. 8, 40, 44.) But while they thus

sought to evade the hostility of the Syracusan

despot, they were visited by a more severe calamity.

Himilcon, the Carthaginian general, who had landed

in Sicily in b. c. 396, having compelled Dionysius to

fall back upon Syracuse, himself advanced with a

large army from Panormus, along the N. coast of

the island. Messana was the immediate object of

the campaign, on account of the importance of its

port; and it was bo ill prepared for defence, that

notwithstanding the spirited resistance of its citizens,

it was token by Himilcon with little difficulty.

Great part of the inhabitants made their escape to

the surrounding country; but the rest were put to

the sword, and not only the walls of the city levelled

to the ground, but all its buildings so studiously

destroyed as, according to the expression of Diodorus,

to leave scarcely a trace of where it had formerly

stood. (Diod. iiv. 56—58.)

After the defeat and expulsion of the Cartha-

ginans, Dionysius endeavoured to repeople Messana

with the fugitive citizens who survived, to whom

he added fresh colonists from Locri and Medina,

together with a small body of Messanian exiles, but

the latter were soon after transferred to the newly

founded city of Tyndaris. (Diod. xiv. 78.) Mean­

while, the Khegians, who viewed with dissatisfaction

the footing thus established by Dionysius on the

Sicilian straits, endeavoured to obtain in their turn

an advanced post against the Messanians by forti­

fying Mylae, where they established the exiles from

Naxos, Catana, and other cities, who had been

driven from their homes by Dionysius. (Id. xiv.

87.) The attempt, however, proved abortive: the

Messanians recovered possession of Myltte, and con­

tinued to support Dionysius in his enterprises against

Khegium. (Id. 87, 103.) After the death of

that despot, we hear but little of Messana, which

appears to have gradually, but slowly, risen again to

a flourishing condition. In B. c. 357 the Mess*­

