008 SARDINIA.

nawrwiaa

Cic. ad (I Fr, ii. 3; Tac. Uist. ii. 85; SSL IUl.

xii. 371.) There can be no doubt that this was

mainly owing to the extensive marshes and lagunes

on the coast, formed at the mouths of the rivers;

and as these naturally adjoined the more level tracts

and plains, it was precisely the most fertile parts of

the island that suffered the moat severely from ma­

laria. (Strab. I. <•.) The more elevated and moun­

tainous tracts in the interior were doubtless then, as

now, free from this scourge; but they were inhabited

only by wild tribes, and rarely visited by the more ci­

vilised" inhabitants of the plains and cities. Hence

the character of unhcalthiuess was naturally applied

to the whole island.

II. History.

The statements of ancient writers concerning the

origin of the population of Sardinia are extremely

various and conflicting, and agree only in represent­

ing it as of a very mixed kind, and proceeding from

many different sources. According to Panaanias,

who lias given these traditions in the greatest detail,

its first in habitant! were Libyans, who crossed over

under the command of Sard OS, the son of a native

hero or divinity, who was identified by the Greeks

with Hercules. (Pans. x. 17. § 2.) This Sardus

was supposed to have given name to the island,

which was previously called, or at least known to

the Greeks, by that of Ichnusa (Tx^icra), from the

resemblance of its general form to the print of a

man's foot. (Paus. I. c. § 1; Sil. Ital. xii. 35S—

360; Pseud. Arist. Mirab. 104.) Timaeus, ac­

cording to Pliny, called it Sandaholis from the same

circumstance (Pirn, iii. 12. s. 17); but it is clear

that neither of these names was ever in general use.

Tiie fact that the earliest population came from

Africa is intrinsically probable enough, though little

value can be attached to such traditions. Pausanias

indeed expressly tells us (/. c. § 7) that the popu­

lation of the mountain districts (the people whom

ho calls Ilienses) resembled the Libyans both in

their physical characters and their habits of life.

The next settlers, according to Pausanias, were a

Greek colony under Aristaeus, to whom some writers

ascribe the foundation of Caralis; and these were

followed by a body of Iberians under a leader named

Norax, who founded the city called Nora in the

SW. part of the island. Next to these came a body

of Greeks fr m Thespiae and Attica, under the

command of Iolaus, who founded a colony at Olbia

in the NE. corner of the island. After this came a

body of Trojans, a part of those who had escaped

from the destruction of their city, and established

themselves in the southern part of the island. It

wss not till long afterwards that they were expelled

from thence by a fresh body of Libyans, who drove

them up into the more rugged and inaccessible parts

o; the island, where they retained down to a late period

the name of Ilienses {'l\ius, Paus. x. 17. 2—7;

Sil. Ital. xii. 360—368). The existence of a moun­

tain tribe of this name is a well attested fact, as

the/ are mentioned by Livy as well as by the geo­

graphers; and it is probable that the casual resem­

blance of name gave occasion to the fable of their

Trajan origin. [Ilienses.] The Iolai or Iolaenses,

on the other hand, bad lost their name in the time

ot Strsbo, and were called, according to him, Dis>

gheabians (ftmyejefra, v, p. 225), a name which is,

however, not found in any other ancient author.

Another tribe, whose name is found in historical

times, ii that of the Baiari, who, according to Pau-

sanias, derived their origin from a bnh 4 merce­

naries in the service of Carthage, that bd nVi mr

refuge to the mountains. (Pass. L t § 9.) T

these must be added the Corsi, whose orina a sd

ciently indicated by their name. Tbev dwtk aa 1

mountains in the N. of the island (the Mimtmgm

Limbarra), and had evidently erased tro fna« 1

adjacent island of Corsica, as they are dtmftaa1

Pausanias as having done. | V ..-. Lc)

It is idle to attempt to criticise such tra&lirai

these; they are related with many w

other writers, some of whom term tbe

others tbe Ilienses, the most ancient

the island (Diod. iv. 29, v. 15: Mel n. 7- J

Strab. v. p. 225; Sil. Ital. ('..-.■■

that the different mountain tribes were 4mm

founded with one another. Strata ake» I

statement that the earliest inhabitants *£ Sas

(before the arrival of Iolaus) were Ti

p. 225), by which he must probably neaa fl

gians, rather than Etruscans. We have a* aea

of any Greek colonies in Sardinia dunnf the

torical period; though the bland was certainty

known to them, and seems to hare been knkri |

as affording a tempting field fir cokinaiiTwa

we are told by Herodotus that when Pboraea

were taken by Harpagus (b. c. 545) the

suggested that all the remaining locians

ceed in a body to Sardinia, and establish

in that island. (Herod, i. 170.) A.^jk.

Histiaeus of Miletus promised Darius to sdmm

whole island for him; and it appears that the pi

of emigrating there was seriously eotertaawaV

v. 106, 124.) Pausanias indeed

seniaus as thinking of emigrating then

earlier period, j ust after the dose of the

nian War, b. c. 668 (Paus. iv. 23. § 5);

these projects were realised, and it seems

there were no Greek settlements in tbe i

time when it fell into the hands of tbe

The Carthaginian conquest is indeed tbe

iu the history of Sardinia that can to i

as resting on any sure historical foundation

of this the date cannot be fixed with eat

is probable indeed that at a much earlier penai^

Phoenicians had not only visited tbe coast* of

dinia for commercial purposes, but had eattM

trading stations or factories there, Diodoraai

expressly tells us that they planted colonies ii

dinia, as well as in Sicily, Spain, and Africa (

v. 35); and there seems some reason to sea

them the first foundation of tbe imj

Caralis, Nora, and Sulci. (Movers, die

vol. iii. pp. 55S, 573.)- But in this

many others, it is impossible to

what was done by the Phoenicians

what by their descendants tbe

is, however, certain that it was

latter to form extensive and pennaiient sen

in the island, of which they reduced the.

part under their authority. According tat

the first Carthaginian expedition took pW

a leader named Malchus, who was, hmmm

feated in a great battle by the native hm

(Justin, xviiL 7.) The next inra*ka «

ducted by Hasdrubal, the son of Ma^o, t

elder brother (if we may trust to the maa

Justin) of Hamilcar, who was killed ax 1

b. c. 480. Hasdrubal himself, after mm

cesses, was shuu in battle; but the O

seem to have from this time ■ lintai—d

