JERUSALEM. 21 JERUSALEM.

J. Tie Second Wall, and the Lower Citg.—The

account of the second wall in Josephus, is very

meagre. He merely says that it began at tbe Gate

Geunath, a place in the old wall; and, after en­

compassing tbe Lower City, had its termination at

the Fortress Antonia."

There is here no cine to the position of the Gate

Gennath. It is, however, quite certain that it was

between the Hippie Tower and the Xystus: and the

north-west angle of the Upper City was occupied by

the extensive palace of Herod the Great, and its

imposing towers stood on the north front of this old

wall, where a rocky crest rose to the height of 30

cubits, which would of course preclude the possibility

of an exit from the city for some distance to the east

of tbe tower. Other incidental notices make it clear

that there was a considerable space between the

t hird and the second wall at their southern quarter,

comparatively free from buildings, and, consequently, a

considerable part of the north wall of the Upper City

unprotected by the second wall: — e.g. Cestius,

baring taken the outer wall, encamped within the

New City, in front of the Royal Palace (B.J. ii. 19.

§ 5); Titos attacked the outer wall in its southern

part, "both because it was lower there than else­

where, inasmuch as this part of the New City was

thinly inhabited, and afforded an easy passage to

the third (or inmost) wall, through which Titus

had hoped to tike the Upper City" (v. 6. § 2).

Accordingly, when the legions had carried the outer

and the second wall, a bank was raised against the

northern wall of Sion at a pool called Amygdalon,

and another about thirty cubits from it, at the high-

priest's monument." The Almond Pool is no doubt

identical with the tank that still exists at no great

distance from the modern fortress; and the monu­

ment must, therefore, have been 6ome 50 feet to

the east of this, also in the angle formed by tbe

north wall of tbe Upper City and the southern part

of tbe second wall.

There is the head of an old archway still existing

above a heap of ruins, at a point about half way

between the Hippie Tower and the north-west angle

of Mount Sion, where a Blight depression in that

hill brings it nearly to a level with the declivity

to the north. This would afford a good starting-

point for the second wall, traces of which may still

be discovered in a line north of this, quite to the

Damascus gate where are two chambers of ancient

and very massive masonry, which appear to have

hanked an old gate of the second wall at its weakest

part, where it crossed the valley of the Tyropoeon.

from this gate, the second wall probably followed

the line of the present city wall to a point near the

Gate of Herod, now blocked up; whence it was

carried along the brow of the hill to the north-east

angle of the fortress Antonia, which occupied a con­

siderable space on the.north-west of the Temple area,

in connection with which it will be described below.

3. TU Third Wall, and the New City. — The

third wall, which enclosed a very considerable space

to the north of the old city, was the work of Herod

A^ripps the Elder, and was only commenced about

thirty years before the destruction of Jerusalem, and

never completed according to the original design, in

conseqaence of tbe jealousy of the Roman govern­

ment The following is Josephus's account: —

"This third wall Agrippa drew round the super­

added city, which was all exposed. It commenced

at the Tower Hippicua, from whence it extended to

tie northern quarter, as far as the Tower Pscphinus;

then, passing opposite to the Monuments of Helena,

and being produced through the Royal Caves, it

bent, at the angular tower, by the monument called

the Fuller's, and, joining the old wall, terminated at

the valley of the Kedron." It was commenced with

stones 20 cubits long and 10 wide, and was raised

by the Jews to the height of 26 cubits, with the

battlements.

(1) As the site of the Hippie Tower has been

already fixed, the first point to be noticed in this

third wall is the Psephme Tower, which, Josephus

informs us, was the most wonderful part of this

great work, situated at its north-west quarter, over

against Hippicus, octagonal in form, 70 cubits in

height, commanding a view of Arabia towards the

east, of the Mediterranean towards the west, and of

the utmost limits of the Hebrew possessions. The

site of this tower is still marked, by its massive

foundations, at the spot indicated in the plan; and

considerable remains of the wall that connected it

with the Hippie Tower are to be traced along the

brow of the ridge that shuts in the upper [art of

the valley of Hinnom, and almost in a line with the

modern wall. At the highest point of that ridge

the octagonal ground-plan of the tower may be seen,

and a large cistern in the midst of the ruins further

confirms their identity, as we are informed that the

towers were furnished with reservoirs for the rain

water.

(2) The next point mentioned is the Monuments

of Helena, which, we are elsewhere told, were three

pyramids, situated at a distance of 3 stadia from

the city. (Ant. xx. 3. §3.) About a century later

(a. d. 174) Pausanias speaks of the tomb of Helena,

in the city of Solyma, as having a door so con­

structed as to open by mechanical contrivance, at a

certain hour, one day in the year. Being thus

opened, it closes again of itself after a short in­

terval; and, should you attempt to open it at another

time, you would break the door before you could suc­

ceed. (Paus. viii. 16.) The pyramids are next men­

tioned by Eusebius (Hist. Eccles. ii. 12), as remark­

able monumental pillars still shown in the suburbs

of Jerusalem; and St. Jerome, a century later, tes­

tified that they still stood. (Epist. ad Eustochium,

Op. torn. iv. pars ii. p. 673.) The latest notice is

that of an Armenian writer in the 5th century, who

describes the tomb as a remarkable monument before

the gates of Jerusalem. (HisLArmen. lib. ii. cap. 32.)

Notwithstanding these repeated notices of the sepul­

chral monuments of the queen of Adiabene, it is not

now possible to fix their position with any degree of

certainty, some archaeologists assigning them to the

Tomhs of the Kings (Robinson, Bib. Res. vol, i.

pp. 465, 535—538), others to the Tombs of the

Martyrs, about J of a mile to the west of the

former. (Schultz, Jerusalem, pp. 63—67; Do

Saulcy, torn. ii. pp. 326, 327.) A point halfway

between these two monuments would seem to answer

better to the incidental notices of the monuments,

and they may with great probability be fixed to a

rocky court on the right of the road to NebiSamtcil,

where there are several excavated tombs. Opposite

the Monuments of Helena was the Gate of the

Women in the third wall, which is mentioned more

than once, and must have been between tbe Nablus

road and the Psephine Tower.

(3) The Koyal Caves is the next point men­

tioned on the third wall. They are, donbtless, iden­

tical with the remarkable and extensive excavations

still called the Tombs of the Kings, most probably

c 3

