PQOEXICIA. 019 rnoENicus.

, ;is Mai, where Clandian (BeU. Cfltt 520)

vtijoss Canlis is founded hy the Tyrians, in con-

:.t .Juetiui to Sold, founded by the Carthaginian*,

.ttj [hf ootni of Aec-osus (/pica) seem to denote

I* .<rjpiiioo of it by the Phoenicians, since they

ten nikus of the Csbiriac worship.

Tit my airly iotercoone between Phoenicia and

u* rata *f Sfain is attested by the mention of

f tanesiua, in the 10th chap, of Genesis,

b » ub> purport U tlie legend of the expedition

•'grainmine Chrysanr, the father of Ueryon,

iu of eoarse naval, and which sailed from

Dn (Hiroi ir. S; Died, iv. 17, sqq. v. 1", &c.)

IV mad of Diolocus leads us to conclude that

ks «a so earlier colony than some of the inter-

The Phoenicians had no

ccri-d on a commercial intercourse with

i lug before the foundation of Gadeira or

Sab. The date of the latter event can be ascer-

eah very remarkable accuracy. Velleius

i (I 2J informs as Uiat it was founded a

'jva Wore Utica; and from Aristotle (</e

W Amil, c 146) we learn that Utica was

■aw) tt" years before Carthage. Now as the

aw ciy meat have been founded at least 800

S9s.uk follows that Gadeira must hare been

hi isovt eleven centuries before our aera. The

i Hercules, or Melcarth, at this place re-

isti. ma o»d to the time of Silius Italicus, the

> i.« nt» of Phoenician worship; tlie fane liad

■tsars, sad the only risible symbol of a god was

r»*-t,irrjsjj fire; the ministering priests were

■ate! sad dsd in linen, and the entrance of

■»* sal swine was prohibited. {Punic iii. 22,

I t«i before this period, however, it had

s» to Be s Phoenician colony; for tlie Phocaeans

*ea«i to Tsrteatus in the time of Cyrus, about  
I ■ C loud it aa independent state, governed

a> «>s king Argantbonins. (Herod. L 163.)

■ rsm towns were doubtless founded in tlie

I* xu by the Phoenicians; but tlie subsequent

a«.a of the country by the Carthaginians

k*i i*. iiTruli to determine which were Punic

firs genuine Phoenician. It is probable,

■w that those in which the worship of Her-

■« of the Cabiri, can be traced, as Carteia,

■a ^iti, Ac., were of Tyrian foundation. To

sad long continued connection witli Phoc-

i »- nay perhaps ascribe that superior civili-

■ ** rjsseraorable use of writing which Strabo

l&i otaerrai among tlie Tunluli and Tur-

is the Atlantic, it is possible that the

at tansy hare had settlements in the Cosai-

sv w tia districts on the coast of Cornwall and

■»"» MraaV,' and that northwards they may

'their voyages as far as tlie Baltic in

eater. [Bbjtasxicae Iks. Vol. I. p. 433,

I 'C**f Hasten, Researches, dx. ii. pp. 53,68.)

has pants rest principally on conjecture,

v m wi decided traces of Phoenician occu-

• •« the KW. at Atlantic wast of Africa,

a, Sai Csraa, was one of the Pillars of Hercules,

*■ traps at Lixus in Mauritania was said to  
m •■■a than that at Gadeira. (Plin. xix. 4.

1 Tsip was founded by Antaeus, with whom

■"» ■ Ussd to have combated (Mela, i. 5;

AWOT

coast of

the

of the Phoenicians, (.'erne

■» a tttai to hare combated (Mela, i.

■*• r 140); and the Sinus Emporicus («-oA«-

Sixb. xvii. 827), on the W. coast

"-^a lecst to have been so named from t

was trie limit of their voyages on this coast; hut the

situation of Came is still a subject of discussion.

[Ckrsk.]

With regard to their colonies on the N. or Medi­

terranean coast of Africa, Strabo (i. p. 48) tells us

that the Phoenicians occupied the middle parts of

Africa soon after the Trojan War, and they were

probably acquainted with it much sooner. Their

earliest recorded settlement was Itace, or Utica, on

the western extremity of what was afterwards called

the gulf of Carthage, the date of which has been

already mentioned. Pliny (xvi. 79) relates that the

cedar beams of the temple of Apollo at Utica bad

lasted since its foundation, 1178 years before his

time; and as Pliny wrote about 78 years after the

birth of Christ, this anecdote corroborates the date

before assigned to the foundation of Gades and

Utica. The Phoenicians also founded other towns

on this coast, as Hippo, Hadrumetum, Leptis, See.

(Sail. Jug. c. 19), and especially Carthage, on

which it is unnecessary to expatiate here. [Car­

thago.]

The principal modern works on Phoenicia arc,

Bochart's Geoyraphia Sacra, a performance of un­

bounded learning, but tlie conclusions of which, from

the defective state of critical and ethnographical

science at the time when it was written, cannot

always be accepted; Gesenius, Monumtnta Phoe­

nicia; Movers, article Phonizien, in Ersch and

Gruber 8 Encyclopddie, and especially his work Itie

Phonizier, of which two volumes are published, but

which is still incomplete; snd Mr. Kenrick's Phoe­

nicia, 8vo. London, 1855, to which the compiler of

this article is much indebted The reader may slso

consult with advantage Ilengstenberg, IM Rebut

Tyriorum, Berlin, 1832, and Beitrage zur Einlei-

tung in das A lie Testament; Heeren, Historical Re­

searches, d-c. vol. ii. Oxford, 1833; Grote, HUtory

of Greece, vol. iii. ch. 18; Forbiger, Ilandbuch dir

alien Geographie, vol. ii. p. 659, sqq.: Russegger,

Reisen; Burckhardt, Syria; Robinson, Biblical

Researches, &c. [T. H. D.]

PHOENI'CE. [Phila.]

PHOENI'CIS. [Medbon, No. 3.]

PHOENI'CIUS MONS. [Boeotia, p. 412, a ]

PHOENTCUS (Oomaouj). 1. A port of Ionia,

at the foot of Mount Mimas. (Thucyd. viii. 34.)

Livy (xxxvi. 45) notices it in his account of the

naval operations of the Romans and their allies

against Antiochus (comp. Stcph. B. s. v.); but its

identification is not easy, Leake {Asia Minor, p. 263)

regarding it as the same as tlie modem port of

Tihesme, and Hamilton (Researclics, ii. p. 5) as the

port of Egri-Limen.

2. A port of Lycin, a little to the east of Fatara;

it was scarcely 2 miles distant from the latter place,

and surrounded on all sides by high cliffs. In the

war against Antiochus a Roman fleet took its station

there with a view of taking Patara. (Liv. xxxvii.

16.) Beaufort {Karamania, p. 7) observes that

Livy's description answers accurately to the bay of

Kalumahi. As to Mount Phoenicus in I.ycia, see

Olympus, Vol. II. p. 480. [L S.]

PHOENl'CUS. [Phtcus ]

PUOEM'CUS (*oif«oi;i AiVijf, Strab. xvii.

p. 799; Ptol. ir. 5. § 7; Stadiasm. § 12), a har­

bour of Marmsrica, off which there were tlie two

islands 1)ii>ymae. which must not be confounded

with those which Ptolemy (iv. 5. § 76) places off

the Chersonesus Parra on the coast of Aegypt. Its

position must be sought between Psigkus ix\»rytvs,

