VIENNA. ■ VIGES1MUM, AD. 1309

Table. It is remarked, too, that Seneca (De Morte

Clnndii, c. 6) says that Claudius was bom at Lug­

dunum (I;,-:, "ad sextum decimnm lapidem a

Vienna." The real distance from Vienna to the

Rhone at Lyon is about 17 M. P.; but D'Anville

suggests that the territory of Lugdunum mar have

had a narrow strip on the south side of the Rhone.

There can be no road of 23 M. P. from Lug­

dunum to Vienna, unless it be one on the west bank

of the Rhine. Strabo (iv. pp. 184, 186) makes the

distance between Lugdunum and Vienna 200 stadia

or 20 M. P., which is too much.

Vienna is first mentioned by Caesar (B. G. vii. 9),

and only once mentioned. lie had crossed the Ce-

mmes into the Amergne in the depth of winter,

and be went a«rain over the .mountains to Vienna to

meet a newly-levied cavalry force, which some time

l^fore be had seut on thither. Under the Empire

Vienna was a great city, and there was rivalry and

enmity between it anil Lugdunum. (Tacit. Hist.

i. 65.) Mela speaks of it as a flourishing place;

and under the Empire it was a Colonia ( Plin. iii. 4;

Tacit. Hist, i. 66), before the time of Claudius, who

speaks of it in his Omtio (super Civitate Gallis danda);

"Orcatisaiina ecce Colonia valentissimaque Vien-

censium, quam longo jam tempore senatores huic

curiae ounfert." (J. Lip-sius, Excurg. ad Tacit Ann.

lib. xi.) This passage shows that Vienna had

already supplied members to the Roman senate, and

it must have been a Koinana Colonia. Martial (vii.

68) calls it "pulcra" :—

■ Fertur habere mens, si vera est fuma, libellos,

Inter delicias pulcra Vienna suas."

So Pliny says that his works were in the booksellers'

shops at Lugdunum. [Lwjdusum.] These facts

present a curious contrast between the book trade in

a French provincial town under the Empire and at

the present day, when a man would not find much.

Vienna was also noted for the wino (Martial, xiii.

107) that grew in the neighbourhood; and some

of the best wines of the Rhone are still made about

t'imne. This town afterwards gave name to the

subdivision of Narbonensia named Vienncnsis.

The modem town of Vienne is in the department

of /sere, on the little river Gere, which Hows through

('testae to the Rhone. The modem town U in the

narrow valley of the Gere, and extends to the banks

»f the Rhine. The Roman town was placed on two

terraces in the form of amphitheatres. There still

BxUt the foundations of the massive Roman walls above

19.000 feet in circuit which enclosed Vienna. Then

walla, even in the weakest parts, were about 20 feet

thick ; and it appears that there were round towers

intervals. There are at Vienne the remains

>f some arcades, which are supposed to have formed

lie entrance to the Thermae. They are commonly

'ailed triumphal arches, but there is no reason for

hi.-* appellation. One of the arcades beam the name

if the emperor Gratian. There is a temple which

H. Schneider has conjectured to have been dedicated

a Augustus and Livia, if his deciphering of the

nacription may be trusted. This is one of the best

ireftrrved Roman monuments of its kind in France

iftor the liaison Carrie of Stmts [XemaI'RI's].

t is now a Museum, and contains some valuable

ncient remains and inscriptions. This building is

f the Corinthnin order, with six columns in front

.nd wight on each side; the columns are above 3

ft in diameter, and 35 feet high, including the

aaw of the capitals.

There is a singular monument near Vienna, some-

times called Pontius Pilate's tomb, there being a

tradition that Pilate was banished to Vienna. But

even if Pilate was sent to Vienna, that fact will not

prove that this is his monument. It is a pyramid

supported on a quadrangular construction, on the

sidesof which there are four arcades with semicircular

arches at the top; and there are columns at each of

the angles of the construction. Each side of the

square of this basement is about 21 feet long, and the

height to the top of the entablature of the basement

is nearly 22 feet. The pyramid with its smaller

base rests on the central part of the quadrangular

construc tion ; it is about 30 feet high, and the whole

is consequently about 52 feet high. The edifice is

not finished. It has on the whole a very fine ap­

pearance. There is a drawing of it in the Penny

Cyclojmedia (art. Vienne), made on the spot in

1838 by W. B. Clarke, architect.

The remains of the amphitheatre have been found

only by excavation. It was a building of great

magnitude, the long diameter being above 500 feet

and the smaller above 400 feet, which dimensions

are about the same as those of the amphitheatre of

Verona. It has been used as a quarry to build the

modem town out of. Three aqueducts supplied

Vienna with water during the Roman period. These

aqueducts run one above another on the side of the

hill which borders the left bank of the Gere, and

they are nearly parallel to one another, but at dif­

ferent elevations. The highest was intended to

supply the amphitheatre when a naumachia was

exhibited. There are also remains of a fourth

aqueduct large enough for four persons to walk in

upright and abreast. These aqueducts were almost

entirely constructed under ground, with a fall of

about one in a thousand, and for the most part lined

inside with a red cement as high up as the spring

of the arches.

The Roman road, sometimes called the Via Do-

mitia, ran from Arelate (Aries') along the E. side

of the river to Lugdunum (Lyon). Where it enters

1'i'enne, it is now more than 3 feet below the surface

of the ground, and this depth increases as it goes

farther into the town. It is constructed of largo

blocks of stone. Another road went from Vienna

to the Alpis Graia (Little St. Bernard) through

Bkhginthum; and it is an interesting fact to find

that several villages on this road retain names given

to them in respect of the distance from 1'ieime:

thus Septeme is 7 miles, Oytier 8 miles, and DU-

mox 10 Roman miles from I'l'enne. Another road

led from Vienne through Ci'I.ako (Grenoble) to

the Alpis Cottia (Mont St. Genevre). (See Richard

et Hocquart, Guide du Voyageur, for references to

modem works on the antiquities of I'ienne, and par­

ticularly M. Mermct's work, 8vo. Vienne, 1829,

which contains the answers to a series of questions

proposed by the Academic des Inscriptions et Belles

Lettres; also the references iu Ukert, Gallien,

p. 458.) [G.L.]

V1GKSIMIJM, AD. 1. A station in GallU

Xarbonen&is, the distance of which from a given

point determined its name, as we see in the caw of

other names of plares derived from numerals. [Dro-

decimi m. Ah; Vienna.] The place is xx. M. I\

from Narbo (Xarbonne) on the road to Spain, and

may be at or near a place called Jjx Palme.

S. There is another Ad Vipesiinum which occurs

in tile I tin. of Bordeaux to Jerusalem, on the road from

Toulouse. These numerals show that such cities

