NAPATA. 397 NARAUGEliA.

rtt, fawilry placed at the E. extremity of that

pal trod of tiii Nile, which skirts the desert uf Ba-

■•vi [NrBAEj.mod near Mount Birkel (Geoei-et-

ArM), i lite which answers nearly to the descrip-

ir. if Xapala. in Pliny (/. c). Napata was the

!i"Ji£st pant S. beyond Egypt, whither the amis of

li'.sc pmetrated, and it was taken and plundered by

jVjroiiD, the lieutenant of Augustus, in n. c. 22.

Cass, liv. 5.) Nor does Napata seem ever to

iire recovered its earlier greatness; for Nero's sur-

."<.-) {Lund only an inconsiderable town there, and

Li?r*ardi all tracea of this city vanish. The govcrn-

»ett ist Napata, like that of Meroe, was often coin-

to the hands of women, who bore the title of

'atdaca (Actt of Apott. viii. 27; Euseb. Hut.

lain. a. \ ; Tutaca, Chiliad, iii. r. 885); and in the

> rum cf Schauiy, Burckbanlt found in the present

oafery a areolar regimen. Napata, if not a colony,

ru proa*:*!/ at one time among tlio dependencies of

Jt:*. The government and religion were the

tine ia both; and from the monuments discovered

ether, both seem to have been in a similar state

< ciruisation. If Mtrrawe, indeed, represent the

XapaU, it seems to follow that the latter

•-; in the second capital of the Mesopotamian

iviuo v( Meroe.

Xipua owed much of its wealth and importance

Is beiBg the terminus of two considerable cara-

'u nets: — (1) One crossing the desert of Bahi-

(2) The other further to the N. running from

tie cky to the'»land Gagandes in the Nile (Plin.

Ji). the modern Arpo. (Rnssegger, Karte con

tsfciem.) Although Napata was surrounded by

^ -~»ir hordes, its proper population was probably

r.TLi^d a* that of Meroe, at least its wealth pre-

:.<jar? settlement and security. Its commerce

in an interchange of the products of I.iliya

i»i AraSia, and it was near enough to the marches

■j» N i« to enjoy a share in the profitable trade

- tvj aod hides which were obtained from the  
'last of the hippopotamus and elephant. If the

'.xj wfck-h are found near Mount Birkel represent

S 7-*i, the city can have been second only to the

rstkn eicy of the Aethiopians, Meroe itself. (Dio-

tr. LtL&) On the western bank of the Nile are

:»j teropln and a considerable necropolis.

7a» fn>r were dedicated to Osiris and Ammon;

fc"_ :2a* sculptures respreaenting the Ammonian and

*tts3 worship, are inferior in execution and design  
<• taa> af the Nubian monuments. Avenues of

>-*zr-i iad up to the Ammonium, which exhibits in

a njis the plan of the great temples of Aegypt.

Est the vaOa of the Osirian temple, which Calli-

■st (L'U* «fe Merot ) calls a Typhonium, are re-

»W/J Ammoc-Ra and his usual attendants.

TW .i-agfiae exhibit Ammon or Osiris receiving

'i frail, cattle, and other articles, or offering

strings of captives taken in war are

*£jre their conqueror. On the gateway  
to the court of the necropolis, Osiris was

. ia 'at act of receiving gifts as lord of the

The pyramids themselves are of con-

; but having been built of the

! «f Mount Birkel, have suffered greatly

lass •!* prrviiical rains, and have been still more

',•»« W saaa.

Aat«»v; tie ruins, which probably cover tho site

a* tas» asnr-.*. S'spaia are two lions of red granite,

; the name of Amunepli III. the other of

Tbey were brought to England by

Praia*, ud now stand at tlie entrance to the

Gallery of Antiquities in tho British Museum.

The style and execution of these figures belong to

the most perfect period of Aegypt ian art, the xviiilh

dynasty of the Pharaohs. Whether these lions once

marked the southern limit of the dominions of

Aegypt, or whether they were trophies brought

from Aegypt, by its Aethiopian conquerors, cannot

bo determined. (Hoskins, Travels, pp. 161. 288;

Calliaud, IS hie de Meroe; 1'rantact. of Royal Soc.

Lit. 2nd Ser. vol. i. p. 54.) [W. B. D.]

NAPETl'NUS SINUS (4 Nowt)tT»oi koXwos)

was the name given by some writers to the gulf on

the W. coast of Brattium more commonly known as

the Terinaeus Sinus, and now called the Gulf of St.

Eufemia. We have no account of the origin of the

name, which is cited from Antiochus of Syracuse

both by Strabo and Dionysius. (Strab. vi. p. 255;

Dionys. i. 35.) Aristotle calls the same gulf the

Lametine Gulf (6 AaurjTiioi k6\itos, Arist. Pol.

vii. 10), from a town of the name of Lamctium or

Lametini; and in like manner it has been generally

assumed that there was a town of the name of Nnpc-

tium, situated on its shores. But wo have no other

evideuce of this; an inscription, which has been

frequently cited to show that there existed a town of

the name as late as the time of Trajan, is almost

certainly spurious. (Mommsen, Inter. Regn. Neap.

App. No. 936.) [E. II. B.]

NAPHTAU. [Palaestina.]

NAPOCA. [Dacia, Vol. I. p. 744, b.]

NAR (4 Hap, Strab.: A'era), a considerable river

of Central Italy, and one of the principal tributaries

of the Tiber. It rises in the lofty group of the

Apennines known as the Monti dtlla Sibilla (the

Mons Fiscellus of Pliny), on the confines of Um-

bria and Picenum, from whence it has a course of

about 40 miles to its confluence with the Tiber,

which it enters 5 miles above Ocriculum, alter

flowing under the walls of Interamna and Narnia.

(Strab. v. pp. 227, 235; Plin. iii. 5. s. 9; Lucan.

i. 475; Vib. Seq. p. 15.) About 5 miles above the

former city, it receives the tributary stream of the

Vklisus; a river as large as itself, and which

brings down the accumulated waters of the Lacus

Velini, with those of the valleys that open out at

Reate. The Nar and Velinus together thus drain the

whole western declivity of the Central Apennines

through a space of above 60 miles. The Nar is

remarkable fur its white and sulphureous waters,

which arc alluded to by Enuius and Virgil as well

as Pliny. (Eunius, ^4nn. vii. Fr. 19; Virg. Am.

vii. 517; Plin. iii. 12. s. 17.) It is singular that

the last writer has confounded the Nar with the

Velinus, and speaks of the former as draining tho

Lacus Velini, into which it falls near Reate. Both

Cicero and Tacitus, on the contrary, correctly repre­

sent the waters of the lake as curried off into the

Nar, which is now effected by an artificial cut

forming the celebrated Casrade of the lY/mo, it

Falls of Tern*. This channel was first opened by

M'. Curius, about u. c. 272. but there must always

have been some natural outlet for the waters of the

Yclino. (Plin. I c; Cic ad AM. iv. 15; Tac

Ann, i. 79.) The Nar was reckoned in ancient

times navigable for small vessels; and Tacitus

speaks of Piso, the murderer of Gcnnanieus, as

embarking at Nuniia, and descending from tluuce

by the Nar and the Tiber to Rome. (Tac. Ann.

iii. 9; Strab. v. p. 227.) [E. H. B.]

NARAGGERA, a town of Nutnidia, near which

P. Cornelius Seipio pitched his camp, and hud an

