MYCEKAE. MYGDONES. 3b3

strength with elegance in the happiest proportions.

The bellies of both are slender in comparison with

the rest of the figure, especially of the one on the

right of the beholder. The muscles, sinews, and

joints, though little detailed, are indicated with

much spirit. The finish, both in a mechanical and

•rustical point of view, is excellent; and in passing

the hand orer the surface, one is struck with the

smooth and easy blending of the masses in every

portion of the figure." (Mure, vol. ii. p. 171.)

Besides the great Gate of Lions, there was a

smaller gate or postern on the northern side of the

Acmpulis, the approach to which was fortified in

the same manner as that leading to the great gate.

It U constructed of three great stones, and is 5 feet

4 laches wide at the top.

Near the Gate of Lions the wall of the lower

city may be traced, extending from N. to S. In

the lower town arc four subterraneous buildings,

which are evidently the same as those described by

Puuaniaa, in which the Atreidae deposited their

treasures. Of these the largest, called by the learned

the " Treasury of Atreus," and by the Greek ciceroni

the "Grave of Agamemnon," is situated under the

si)neduct which now conveys the water from the

stream on the northern side of the Acropolis to the

village of Kharmti. (See Flan, C.) This building

is in nearly a perfect state of preservation. It is

approached by a passage now in ruins, and contains

two chambers. The passage leads into a large

chamber of a conical form, about 50 feet in width

and 40 in height; and in this chamber there is a

doorway leading into a small interior apartment.

The ground-plan and a section of the building are

figured in the Diet. ofAntiq. p. 1127. The doorway

terminating the passage, which leads into the large

chamber, is 8 feet 6 inches wide at the top, widen­

ing a little from thence to the bottom. "On the

outside before each door-post stood a semi-column,

having a base and capital not unlike the Tuscan

order in profile, but enriched with a very elegant

sculptured ornament, chiefly in a zigzag form, which

was continued in vertical compartments over the

whole shaft. Those ornaments have not the smallest

resemblance to anything else found in Greece, but

they have some similitude to the Persepolitan style

of sculpture." (Leake, Morea, voiii. p. 374.) There

are remains of a second subterraneous building near

thf Gate of Lions (Plan, D); and those of the two

others are lower down the hill towards the west.

There lias been considerable discussion among

modem scholars respecting the purpose of those sub­

terraneous buildings. The statement of Pausanias,

that they were the treasuries of the Atreidae, was

generally accepted, till Mure published an essay in

the HhcmUchtt Mmeum for 1833 (vol. vi. p. 240),

in which he endeavoured to establish that all such

buildings were the family vaults of the ancient

heron by whom tbey were constructed. In the

great edifice at Mycenae he supposes the inner apart-

Bent to have been the burial-place, and the outer

vault the heroum or sanctuary of the deceased. This

opinion has been adopted by most modern scholars,

but has been combated by Leake, who adheres to

the ancient doctrine. (I'eluponnt*iuea,\>. 256.) The

two opiniuns may, however, be to some extent recon­

ciled by supposing that the inner chamber was the

burial-place, and that the outer contained the arms,

jewels, and other ornaments most prized by the de­

ceased, it was the practice among the Greeks in all

ages lor the dead to carry with them to their tombs

a portion of their property; and in the heroic ages

the burial-places of the powerful rulers of Mycenae

may have been adorned with such splendour that

the name of Treasuries was given to their tombs,

There is, indeed, good reason fur believing, from the,

remains of brazen nails found in the large chamber

of the "Treasury of Atreus," that the interior sur­

face of the chamber was covered with brazen plates.

At the foot of the lower town stands the modern

village of Kharviti. (Leake, Morea, vol. ii. p. 365,

seq.; Mure, Tour in Greece, voL ii. p. 163, seq.;

Curtius, J'eloponnetoi, vol. ii. p. 400, seq.)

MYCE'NI. [Maurktama.]

MYCHUS. [Bum.]

MY'CONUS (MiWos: Eth. MvkoVios: Myko-

no), a small island in the Acgaean sea, lying E. of

Dclos, and N. of Naxos. Pliny says (iv. 12. s. 22)

that it is 15 miles from Delos, which is much greater

than the real distance; but Scylax (p. 55) more

correctly describes it as 40 stadia from Rheneia, the

island W.of Delos. Myconus is about 10 miles in

length, and 6 in its greatest breadth. It is in most

parts a barren rock, whence Ovid gives it the epithet

of hmiilit (Met. vii. 463); and the inhabitants had in

antiquity a bad reputation on account of their ava­

rice and meanness (Allien, i. p. 7 ; hence the pro­

verb MuKoVior ytirup, Zenob. Prov. v. 21; Suidas,

Hesch., Phot.). The rocks of Myconus are granite,

and the summit* of the hills are strewn with im­

mense blocks of this stone. This circumstance

probably gave rise to the fable that the giants sub­

dued by Hercules lay under Myconus; whence came

the proverb, "to put all things under Myconus,"

applied to those who ranged under one class things

naturally separate. (Strab. x. p. 487; Steph. If.

». ».) The tomb of the Locrian Ajax was also

shown at Myconus. (Tzetz. ad Lycophr. 401.) Of

the history of the island we have no account, except

the statement that it was colonised from Athens, by

the Nelide Hippocles. (Zenob. v. 17; SchoL ad

Itionyt. Per. ap. Geogr. Min. vol. iv. p. 37, Hud­

son.) Myconus is mentioned incidentally by Hero­

dotus (vi. 118) and Thueydides (in. 29). Ancient

writers relate, as one of the peculiarities of Myco­

nus, that the inhabitants lost their hair at an early

age. (Strab. I. c.; Plin. xi. 37. s. 47; " Myconi

calva omnis juventus," Donat. ad Ter. Uecyr. iii. 4.

19.) The highest mountain, which is in the northern

part of the island, has a summit with two peaks,

whence it is called Dimastus by Pliny (iv. 12. s. 22).

The promontory of l'uoi'.nia (4>opS/a, l'tol. iii. 15.

§ 29) was probably on the eastern side of the

bland. Scylax mentions two cities (Mokovoj, alrti

SixoAir, p. 22). Of these one called Myconus

occupied the site of the modem town, which presents,

however, scarcely any ancient remains. The name

and position of the other town are unknown. The

coins of Myconus are rare; and in general very few

remains of antiquity are found in any part of the

island. (Iioss, HeUm au/den Griechischen Irueln,

vol. ii. p. 28, seq.)

MY'GDONES (MuyoWfj), » Inbe dwelling in

Bithynia, about the river Odrysses and the coast of

the Propontis, but extending into Mysia, where they

occupied the district about Mount Olympus and

lake Dascylitis. They had immigrated into Asia

Minor from Thrace, but were afterwards subdued

or expelled by the Bithynians. (Strab. vii. p. 295,

xii. pp. 564, 575.) The district inhabited by them

was called Mygdonia. (Strab. xii. pp. 550, 558, 576;

Plin. v. 41; Solin. 40, 42.) [L. S.]

