SCYTHIA. SCYTHINL 945

.Inn, the Alani the Huns. [Hukmi; Avarks].

!m migrations that make the latter, at least, re­

sit occupant! being entirely hypothetical. The

"■Jrnre of the Hans being in the same category as

t'f Avars, and the Avars being Turk, is conclusive.

The same applies to the Alani — a population which

flr.pi ui to the period of the later classics.

The conditions of a population which should,

! Me and the same time, front Persia and send an

3»t round the Caspian into Southern Russia, &c,

n br§t satisfied by the present exclusively Turk

rva of Independent Tartary.

['losing from tire presumptuous to the special

»\tm, we find that the few facta of which we are

f»»»e»ion ail point in the same direction.

Piysical Appearance.— This is that of the

r.-yie and Uzbeks exactly, thongh not that of the

n ans of ftumelia, who are of mixed Wood. Al-

»ttg iigr the change effected by Mahomet, the

EM remark applies to their

Maaxen, which arc those of the Kirghiz and

trr&inanj.

l<mjmagc.—The Scythian glosses have not been

ij'irtorily explained, i. e. Temerinda, Arimaspi,

d Kiampaeus bare yet to receive a derivation

it any one but the inventor of it will admit.

j ni,r-, however, in Oior patu is exactly the er,

r. •• mm, &c, a term found through all the

i'l dialect*. It should be added, however, that

» Latin and Keltic as well (nr. fear, gwr).

51 it ia Turk, and that unequivocally.

Tb» evidence, then, of the Scythae being Turk

aits in a series of small particulars agreeing

t the a pritrri probabilities rather than in any

b.t* point of evidence. Add to this the fact

; rj» lAber class gives us the same result with

i-!ially small amount of hypothesis in the way

i tgration and change. This will be seen in a

of the opposite doctrines, all of which imply

necesisary amount of unprnven changes.

rV M<mgoi Hypothesis.—This is Niebuhr's, de-

-^nj in his Researches into the History of the Sey­  
ms, 4c.; awl also Neumann's, in his Hellenen im

»«W(. It accounts for the manners and phy-

• «ny, as well as the present doctrine; but not for

ttung else. It violates the rule against the unnc-

multiplication of causes, by bringing from a

■at are*, like Mongolia, what lies nearer, i. e. in

tarr. With Niebuhr the doctrine of fresh migra-

f to accoant for the Turks of the Byzantine pciiod,

is" the extirpation of the older Scythians, takes

luiani development, the least allowance being

• fat charters of name. "This" (the time of

r_jfau»)"i»the last mention of the Scythian na-

ai tba> rvgioci of the later; and, at this time, there

i ioIt be a remnant of it in Budzack " (p. 63).

I* fmm Hypothesis. —This is got at by making

.v^thians what the Huns were, and the Huns

: rrvt Magyars were—the Magyars being Finn,

out of a wrong notion of the name, Hun-

mi fa4la to account for the difference between

iThtara and the nations to their north,

i- ''infusion Hypothesis.—This assumes an ex-

of the more limited area of the northern

;«nLa of Caucasus in the direction of Russia and

ftey. Sadi *n extension is, in itself, probable.

. jt. however, to explain any one fact in the

>'iun» of Scythia, though valid for some of the

;k potations.

r 1ndo-Eanropean Hypothesis.—This doctrine

niasy forma, and rata on many bases. The

•u n.

-get- in words like Massa-jet-ae, &c, is supposed to  
= Goth - German. Then there are certain names

which are Scythian and Persian, the Persian being

Indo-European. In the extreme form of this hy­

pothesis the Sacae - Saxons, and the 1'ucAe of the

Chinese authors = Goths.

If the Scythians were intruders from Inde­

pendent Tartary, whom did they displace? Not the

Sarmatians, who wire themselves intruders. The

earlier occupants were in part congeners of the

Northern Caucasians. They were chiefly, however,

Ugrians or Finns; congeners of the Monlvins,

Tsheremess, and Tshuwashes of Penza, Saratov,

Kazan, tec: Dacia, Thrace, and Sarmatia being the

original occupancies of the Sarmatae.

If so, the ethnographical history of the Herodo-

tcan Scythia runs thus :— there was an original

occupancy of Ugrians; there was an intrusion from

the NE. by the Scythians of Independent Tartary,

and there was intrusion from the SW. by the Sar­

matians of Dacia. The duration of the Scythian or

Turk occupancy was from the times anterior to

Herodotus to the rxtinction of the Cumanians in the

14th century. Of internal changes there was plenty;

but of any second migration from Asia (with the

exception of that of the Avars) there is no evidence.

Such is the history of the Scythae.

The Sacae were, perhaps, less exclusively Turk,

though Turk in the main. Some of them were,

probably, Mongols. The Sacae Amyrgii may have

been Ugrians; the researches of Norris upon the

second of the arrow-headed alphabets having led

him to the opinion that there was at least one in­

vasion of Persia analogous to the Magyar invasion

of Hungary, i. e. effected by members of the Ugrian

stock, probably from Orenburg or Kazan. With

them the root m~rd = man. History gives us no

time when the Turks of the Persian frontier, the

Sacae, were not pressing southwards. Sacastene

(= Segcttun) was one of their occupancies ; Car-

mania probably another. The Parthians were of the

Scyth an stock ; and it is difficult to believe that,

word for word, Persia is not the same as Partliia.

The history, however, of the Turk stock is one thing;

the history of the Scythian name another. It ia

submitted, however, that the two should be connected.

This being done, the doctrine of the recent diffusion

of the Turks is a doctrine that applies to the name

only. There were Turk invasions of Hungary,

Turk invasions of Persia, Turk invasions of China,

Assyria, Asia Minor, and even north-eastern Africa,

from the earliest period of history. Arid there were

Sarmatian invasions in the opposite direction, in­

vasions which have ended in making Scythia Slavonic,

and which (in the mind of the present writer) began

by making parts of Asia Median. Lest this bo taken

for an exaggeration of the Turk influence in the

world's history, let it be remembered that it is only

a question of date, and that the present view only

claims for the Turk conquests the place in the ante-

historical that they are Anoirn to have had in the

historical period. With the exception of the Mongol

invasions of the 13th century and the Magyar occu­

pancy of Hungary, every conqniat in Southern Asia

and Europe, from the North, has been effected by

members of the stock under notice. [See Sakmatia;

Vemki>i ; Fknni ; Sitonks : Turcak.] [It. G. L.]

SCYTUl'NI (2«u0i?o;, Xen. Anab. iv. 7. § IS;

Smiitfinu, Diod. xiv. 29 ; Jicuflni'oi, Steph. B. $. v.),

an Asiatic people dwelling on the borders of Ar­

menia, between the rivers Harpasus on the E. and

3 r

