LOGI. 203 LONDINIUM.

without opposition to the Spartan Eurylochtis, who

marcbeii through their territory from Delphi to

Nsupactus. (Thnc iii. 95, seq.) They belonged at

i liter period to the Aetolian League. (Polyb. xviii.

30.)

The chief and only important town of the Ozolae

ns Ampiilssa, situated on the borders of Phocis.

The other towns, in the direction of W. to E., were:

HoLTCRElA; Nautactus; Oeneon; AjiTICIRRHA

or Asticyra; ElTALICM; Erythkae; Tolo-

rno.w; Htsst'3: Oeauthkia or Okantbe; Ipnus;

Ciialaecm; more inland, Aegitii'M; Potidania;

Cboctlkium; Teichium; Olpae; Messapia;

HrLE; Tkitaea; Myoma.

On the geography of the Locrian tribes, see Leake,

Xorthem Grace, vol. ii. pp.66, seq., 170, seq.,

587,seq.

LOGI or LUGI (Adyoi or Aoiryoi), a people in

Xorth Britain, mentioned by Ptolemy (ii. 3. § 12)

is a population to the south of the Mertae, and west

of the ComabiL This gives the part about the

Dornoch, Cromarty, and Murray Firths. [R. G. L.]

L0G1A, a river in Ireland, mentioned by Ptolemy

u between the Vinderius and the Rhobogdian pro­

montory. Probably [see Vinderius] the Lagan,

filling into Belfast Lough, name for name, and place

for place. * [R. G. L.J

LONCIUM {Liens), a place in the south of

Norieum. on the right bank of the river Dravns, at

the point where it receives the feel. (/tin. Ant.

p. 279.) The whole district about Lienz abounds

in Roman antiquities. (Gruter, Inscript. p. 267.

9; Murhar, Norieum, p. 254.) [L. S.]

LONDI'XIUM (AokSuvio*. Ptol. ii. 3. § 27; \a>-

SoViov. Stepb. B. s. v.; Londinium, Tuc. Ann. xiv.

33; Oppidum Londiniense, Eurnen. Paneg. Const. 17;

Londinium, Amm. Marc, xx. 1), the capital of Roman

Britain, l'tolemy (Z. c.) places Londinium in the

district of the Cantii; but the correctness of this

position has very naturally been questioned. Modern

discoveries have, however, decided that the southern

limits of the city, in the time of Hadrian and Anto-

fcinos Pius, extended a considerable distance into the

territory of the Cantii; and Ptolemy, therefore, was

not altogether unwarranted in placing Londinium in

this division of Britain. In earlier times the city

was confined to the northern bank of the Thames.

The earliest mention of it is by Tacitus, in his

wfll-known account of the insurrection of the Britons

in the nHjn of Xero. As Britain was only fully

inbiusated by Claudius, Londinium must have m-

p*ily advanced U» the importance it assumes in the

narrative of this historian. Although it is not men­

tioned by Julius Caesar or by other early writers, the

pfldiar natural advantages of the locality point it

<«t as one of the chief places of resort of the mer-

caina and traders who visited Britain from the

<iaaliih ports and from other parts of the continent.

A: the comparatively early period in the Roman

domination referred to, Londinium is spoken of as

» place of established mercantile reputation. The

tbr» chief cities of Britain at this period were

\ffolamium, Camulodunum, and Londinium. At

Ctnulodunum a colony of veterans had been esta-

bl»hed ; Verulamium had received the rights and

privileges of a municipium ;Londinium, without such

<£*nctions, had attained by home and foreign trade

tint pre-eminence which ever marked her as the me­

tropolis of Britain: — " Londinium .... cognomento

Stjdem eolimiae non insigne, sed copia negotiatorum et

cauuneatnom maxime celebre." (Tac. Ann. xiv. 33.)

At this period wo must infer that Londinium was

without external walls; and this absence of mural

defences appears to have been common also to Voru-

lamium and to Camulodunum. The Britons passed

by the fortified places and attacked at once tha

rich and populous cities inadequately defended.

Camulodunum was the first to fall; Londinium

and Verulamium speedily followed in a similar

catastrophe.

The Itinerary of Antoninus, which is probably

not later thnn the time of Severus, affords direct

evidence of the chief position which Londinium held

among the towns and cities of Britain. It occurs in

no less than seven of the itinera, and in six of these

it stands either as the place of departure or as the

terminus of the routes; no other town is introduced

so conspicuously.

The next historical mention of Londinium occurs

in the panegyric of Eumenius addressed to Con-

stantius Caesar (c. 17), in which it is termed "oppi-

dum Londinicnse." After the defeat of Allectus, the

victorious Romans marched directly on Londinium,

which was being plundered by the Franks and other

foreign mercenaries, who made up the greater part of

the usurper's forces.

Ammianus Marcellinus, who wrote at a later

period, states that, in his time, Londinium was called

Augusta, an honourable appellation not unfrequently

conferred on cities of distinction. In this writer we

find the word written ns it is pronounced at the present

day: —" Egressus, tendensque ad Lnndinium vetus

oppidum, quod Augustam posteritas appellavit"

(xxvii. 8, comp. xxviii. 3). In the Notitia Digni-

tatum we find mention of a " Praepositus Thesau-

rorum Augustensium in Britanniis;" and in the

Chorography of Ravenna the complete form, Londi­

nium Augusta, is given.

Munumental remains show that Londinium con­

tained buildings commensurate in grandeur and ex­

tent with its historical claims. The foundations of

the wall which bordered the river, when laid open

a few years since, was almost wholly composed of

materials used in buildings which were anterior to

the period when the wall was built ; but it was

impossible to decide the dates of either. The stones

of which this wall was constructed were portions of

columns, friezes, cornices, and also foundation stones.

From their magnitude, character, and number, they

gave an important and interesting insight into the

obscure history of Roman London, in showing the

architectual changes that had taken place in it.

Similar discoveries have been made in various parts

of the modern city which more fully developed the

debris of an ancient city of importance : other

architectural fragments have been found ; walis of

vast strength and thickness have been noticed; and

within the last twenty years, at least thirty tessel­

lated pavements have been laid opt-n, of which some

were of a very fine kind. (Arrhaeologia, vols.

xxvii. xxviii. et seq.) Londinium, unenclosed at

first, was subsequently in early times walled; but

it occupied only part of the site it eventually co­

vered (Archaeologia, vol. xxix.). The line of the

wall of Roman London is well known, and can still,

in parts, be traced. Where it has been excavnted to

the foundation, it appears based upon a bed of clay

and flints; the wall itself, composed of rubble anil

hard mortar, is faced with small squared stones and

bonding tiles; its thickness is about 12 feet;

its original height was probably between 20 and

30 feet; it was flanked with towers, and had a

