MIGRON. 355 MILETUS.

MTGRON, a town in the tribe of Benjamin, men­

tions! in 1 Samuel, xiv. 2 (where the LXX. reads

Ksyiiiy) as in the extreme bonier of Gibeah,

celebrated for its pomegranate tree; and connected

with Aiath (probably Ai) in Isaiah, x. 28 (where

the LXX. reads MayytSii'). Its site has not been

recovered in modern times. Dr. Robinson remarks,

"Micron mitt have been situated between Deir

IHxtn and ilichmash ;" and so the line of the

Assyrian march in Isaiah would seem to require.

Bat the passage in Samuel implies that it was

S. of Michmash, which was then occupied by

the Philistine garrison, watched by the Israelites in

Gibeah, which lay to the S. of " the passage of

Michma.-i," and with which Migron is connected.

(Vinson, BibL Res. vol. ii. p. 149.) [G. W.]

MILETOTOLIS (MiAwrdiroAtr), a town in the

north of Mysia, at the confluence of the rivers Ma-

cestus and Rhyndacus, and on the west of the lake

which derives its name from it. (Strab. xii. p. 575,

liv. p. 681; Steph. B. s. v.; Plin. v. 32, 40.)

Sane modern geographers, as D'Anville and Man­

ia-it. have identified Milctopolis with the modern

Btli Kessr or Balikesri, but this place is situated

too far S. Leake, too, seems to place Milctopolis

tra far S\V. of the lake, and identifies it with Mi-

%iu, which others regard as the site of the ancient

P'*maneiram. The most probable view is, that the

site of Milctopolis is marked by the modern Moaliuh

or Mvhaliitch, or by the place Hamamli, near

which many ruins of an ancient town are found.

(Hamilton, Researches, tfc., vol. i. p. 81.&c, vol. ii.

p. 91.) [L.S.]

MILETOPOLI'TIS LACUS (M.Xi)to</jtoA:tij

Xi'jinij, a lake in the north-west of Mysia, deriving

fc name from the town of Miletopolis, near its

western shore. (Strab. xii. pp. 575, 576.) Ac­

cording to Pliny (v. 40) the lake also bore the name

Artrnia, and probably confounding the river Tar­

sias with the Rhyndacus, he erroneously describes

the latter river as having its origin in the lake,

whereas, in fact, the Rhyndacus enters the lake in

the south, and issues from it in the north. It now

bears the name of the lake of Maniyas (Hamilton,

Hrttonkts, ifr., vol. ii. p. 105. &c.) [L. S.]

MILETUS (MiAijrot: Eth. MAfaios, Milesius),

once the most nourishing city of Ionia, was situated

ra the northern extremity of the peninsula formed,

ia tbe sooth-west of the Latmicus Sinus, by Mount

Orion. The city stood opposite the mouth of the

Maunder, from which its distance amounted to 80

stadia.

At the time when the Ionian colonies were

jliated on the coast of Asia Minor, Miletus already

'listed as a town, and was inhabited, according to

Henjdotus (i. 146), by Carians, while Ephorus (ap.

Stnb.xiv. p. 634) related that the original inhabitants

tad been Leleges, and that afterwards Sarpedon in­

troduced Cretan settlers. The testimony of Hero-

dotas is born out by the Homeric poems, in which

(/I ii. 867) Miletus is spoken of as a place of the

Cariaas. That the place was successively in the

Wis of different tribes, is intimated also by the

net mentioned by Pliny (v. 30), that the earlier

wnes rf Miletos were LelegeTs, Pityusa, and Anac-

teia. (Comp. Paus. vii. 2. § 3; Steph. B. *. v.)

Ontbe arrival of the Ionians, Neleus, their leader,

iih a band of his followers, took forcible possession

ef the town, massacred ail the men, and took the

»»ra*n frir their wives, — an event to which certain

regulating the intercourse between

the sexes, were traced by subsequent generations.

It appears, however, that Neleus did not occupy the

ancient town itself, but built a new one on a site

somewhat nearer the sea. (Strab. /. c.) Tombs, forti­

fications, and other remains, attributed to the ancient

Leleges, were shown at Miletus as late as the time

of Strabo (xiv. p. 611; comp. Herod, ix. 97). As

in most other colonies the Ionians had amalgamated

with the ancient inhabitants of the country, the

Milesians were believed to be the purest representa­

tives of the Ionians in Asia. Owing to its excellent

situation, and the convenience of four harbours, one

of which was capacious enough to contain a fleet,

Miletus soon rose to a great preponderance among

the Ionian cities. It became the most powerful

maritime and commercial place; its ships sailed to

every part of the Mediterranean, and even into the

Atlantic; but the Milesians turned their attention

principally to the Euxine, on the coasts of which, as

well as elsewhere, they founded upwards of 75

colonies. (Plin. v. 31; Senec. Cons, ad Helv. 6;

Strab. xiv. p. 635; Athen. xii. p. 523.) The most

remarkable of these colonies were Abydos, Lamp-

sacus, and Parium, on the Hellespont; Proconnesus

and Cyzicus on the Propontis ; Sinope and Amisus

on the Euxine; while others were founded in Thrace,

the Crimea, and on the Borysthenes. The period

during which Miletus acquired this extraordinary

power and prosperity, was that between its occu­

pation by the Ionians and its conquest by the Per­

sians, i'.. c. 494.

The history of Miletus, especially the earlier por­

tion of it, is very obscure. A tyrannis appears to

have been established there at an early time; after

the overthrow of this tyrannis, we are told, the city

was split into two factions, one of which seems to

have been an oligarchical and the other a demo­

cratic party. (Plut, Quaest. Gr. 32.) The former

gained the ascendant, but was obliged to take ex­

traordinary precautions to preserve it. On another

occasion we hear of a struggle between the wealthy

citizens and the commonalty, accompanied with

horrible excesses of cruelty on both sides. (Athen.

xii. p. 524.) Herodotus (v. 28) also Bpeaks of a

civil war at Miletus, which lasted for two genera­

tions, and reduced the people to great distress. It

was at length terminated by the mediation of the

Persians, who seem to have committed the govern­

ment to those landowners who had shown the

greatest moderation, or had kept aloof from the

contest of the parties. All these convulsions took

place within the period in which Miletus rose to the

summit of ber greatness as a maritime state. When

the kingdom of Lydia began its career of conquest,

its rulers were naturally attracted by the wealth and

prosperity of Miletus. The first attempts to con­

quer it were made by Ardys, and then by Sadyattes,

who conquered the Milesians in two engagements.

After the death of Sadyattes, the war was continued

by Alyattes, who, however, concluded a peace, be­

cause he was taken ill in consequence, it was be­

lieved, of his troops having burnt a temple of Athena

in the territory of Miletus. (Herod i. 17, &c.) At

this timo the city was governed by the tyrant Thra-

sybulus, a friend of Pcriander of Corinth (Herod, v.

92), and a crafty politician. Subsequently Miletus

seems to have concluded a treaty with Croesus,

whose sovereignty was recognised, and to whom

tribute was paid.

After the conquest of Lydia by the Persians,

Miletus entered into a similar relation to Cyrus

A A 2

