MYTILENE. MYTISTKATUS. 391

The first passage in which the history of Mvtilene

comes prominently into view is in the struggle be­

tween the Aeolians and Athenians for Sigeum (b.c.

606), at the NW. comer of Asia Minor. The place

and the time are both remarkable,, as illustrating the

early vigour with which Mytilene was exercising its

maritime and political power. We see it already

grasping considerable possessions on the mainland.

It was in this conflict, too, Hut Pittacus, the sage

and lawgiver of Mytilene, acted so noble a part, and

th.it Abacus. Iter great poet, lost his shield. The

treutiou at these two names reminds us that this

time «f rivalry with Athens coincides with the

famous internal contests of the nobles and commons

in Mvtilene. For the history and results of this

struggle, see the lives of AsXABUB, Pittacus, and

Sappho, in the Did. of Biography.

It may be difficult to disentangle the history of

the Xlytilenaeans frum that of the Aeoliaiis in ge­

tters!, during the period of the Persian ascendancy

on these coasts. But we have a proof of their mer­

cantile enterprise in the fact that they alone of the

Aeuiians took part in the building of the Hellenium

at Naocratis (Herod, ii. 178); and we find them

taking a prominent port in the invasion of Egypt by

Carabyses, (lb. iii. 13, 14.) They supplied a con­

tingent to Darius in his Scythian expedition (lb. iv.

97). They were closely connected with the affairs

of Histiaeus (lb. vi. 5); and doubtless, though they

are not separately mentioned, they were the best

portion of those Aeolians who supplied sixty ships to

Xerxes in bis invasion of Greece. (lb. vii. 95.)

The period of the Athenian supremacy and the

Peloponnesian War is full of the tame of Mytilene.

The alliance of its citizens with those of Athens

began soon after the final repulse of Persia. They held

a very distinguished position among the allies which

formed the Athenian confederacy; but their revolt

from Athens in the fourth year of the Peloponncsian

War brought upon them the most terrible ruin.

Though the first dreadful decision of the Athenian

assembly was overruled (Thucyd. iii. 36), the walls of

Mytilene were pulled down, and her fleet given up;

ber territory was divided among Athenian share­

holders, and she was deprived of her possessions and

furts on the mainland..(lb. iii. 50.)

Towards the close of the Peloponncsian War, Conon

was defeated by Callicratidasotf Mytilene, and block­

aded in the luurbour. (Xen. /Jell. i. C.) We pass now

to the period of Alexander, with whose campaigns this

city was conspicuously connected. The Lesbians made

a treaty with Macedonia. Menmon reduced the

other cities of the island; and his death, which in­

flicted the last blow on the Persian power in the

Aegean, took place in the moment of victory against

Myulene. It was retaken by Hcgesilochus, in the

course of his general reduction of the islands, and

receTed a large accession of territory. Two Myti-

Imaeans, Laomedon and Erigy ius, the sons of Larichus,

were distinguished members of Alexander's start'.

Tbe latter fell in action against the liactrians; the

farmer was governor of .Syria even after Alexander's

oVath.

The first experience of the Roman power in the

Aegean was disastrous to Mytilene. Having espoused

the cause of Mithridates, and having held out to the

last, it was sacked by M. Thermits, on which oc­

casion J. Caesar honourably distinguished himself.

1'umpey's friendship with Theophanes led to tbe

recognition of Mytilene as a free city. (Plin. v. 31.)

After the defeat of Pharsalia, Pouipey touched there

for the last time to take Cornelia on board. His son

6exJ.ua met with a friendly reception there, after his

defeat at sea, by Agrippa. (Diun Cass. xlix. 17;

App. B. C. v. 133.) Agrippa himself resided there

for some time in retirement, ostensibly on account of

his health, but really through mortification caused

by the preference shown to M. Marcellus (Tac. Ann.

xiv. 53; Suet. Aug. 66, Tib. 10); and this resi­

dence is commemorated by an inscription still

extant. (See Pococke.) The last event which we

need mention in the imperial period is the crossing

over of Germanicus with Agrippina from Euboca |o

Lesbos, and the birth of Julia. (Tac. Ann. ii. 54.)

This event, also, was commemorated both by coins

and inscriptions. (See Kckhel and Pococke.) It

appears that the privilege of freedom was taken

away by Vespasian, but restored by Hadrian.

(Plehn, Lesbiac. p. 83.)

Mytilene is one of the few cities of the Aegean,

which have continued without intermission to flourish

till the present day. In the course of the middle

ages it gradually gave its name to the whole island.

Thus, in the Mnecdemus of Ilietocles, MrruMfvi]

and MtAJfUW are both mentioned under the Pro­

vince of the Islands; but in the later Byzantine

division, Mytilene is spoken of as an island, like

Lemooe and Chios, in the Theme of the Aegean Sea.

(Const. Porpbyxog, de Them. i. pp. 42,43, ed. Bonn.)

The fortunes of Mytilene during the first advances

of the Mahometans in the Levant, and during the

ascendancy of the Venetians at a later period, are

noticed in Finlay's History of the Byzantine and

Greek Kmpiresy vol. ii. pp. 72, 171, 223. The

island of Lesbos was not actually part of the Ma-

homedan empire till nearly ten years after the

fall of Constantinople.

With tlie exception of the early struggles of the

time of Alcaeus and Pittacus, there is little to be

said of the internal constitutional history of Mytilene.

It shared, with all Greek cities, the results of tho

struggles of the oligarchical and democratical parties.

We find a commonalty (Sauos) and a council (#<iAAa)

mentioned on coins of the period of Alexander; and

the title of magistrates, called ffTpar7iy6s (praetor),

appears on coins of Lucius Verus. In connection

with this part of the subject we may allude to two

creditable laws; one which enacted (doubtless in

consequence of the great quantity of wine in tho

island) that offences committed by the drunk should

be more severely punished than those committed by

the sober (Arist. Pol. ii. 9. 9); the other making

a singular provision for the punishment of faithless­

ness in tributary allies, by depriving them of the

privilege of educating their children. (Aelian, Far.

Hut. vii. 15.) [J. S. H.]

COIN OK MVTILENE.

MYTI'STRATUS (Mvriarparos, Step*. B.,

Diod.; Moi/Tfo*TpaTOi, Zonar.; to Muttbrrporer,

Pol.: Eth, Mutustratimis, Plin.), a town in the inte­

rior of Sicily, the position of which is wholly uncer-

c c 4

