PHOENICIA. PHOENICIA. 611

».• the Egyptian maaarchs, and an extensive com-

rra> 11 pern to lure been carried on with the port

i \Merui4, The next wars in which we find the

h,t.' villi the Babyktuansj

woco the account of Berosus, that Nabopalassar,

'!»/ mrstd towards the end of the seventh century

- i -, held Phoenicia in subjection, and that his son  
waWcfcaawaaawg reduced it when in a state of revolt,

sat at regarded as doubtful. At all events, bow-

•sr. it appears to have been in alliance with the

"ii'iatm at this period; since we find it related

king of Egypt, when at war with that

Crpra* and Phoenicia. (Herod.

1*1; Died. L 68.) When Nebuchadnezzar as.

card toe throne, we find that, after quelling a

•wit eff Um Jews and redncing Jerusalem (b. c

>7X lie marched into Phoenicia, took Sidon appa-

aUJ it assault, with dreadful carnage, and pro-

alad to iaveat Tyre. (Etdciel, xxvi.) For an

•at of the siege, one of the most memorablo in

history, we are again indebted to Josephus

11 \ who extracted it from Tyrian annals. It

aasi to have lasted thirteen years. Another

-»*1 was at this time king of Tyre. The de-  
tftmm of the siege by Ezekiel would seem to

V '■» I'alae-Tyrus, though it is probable that

Law Tyre was also attempted. (Grote, Uigt. of

mi. f 355, note.) The result of the siege is

Berosos, indeed, affirms (op.

i. 20) that Nebuchadnezzar sub-

* *L Svna and Phoenicia; but there is no evi-  
a» of aa assault upon Tyre, and the words of

taw (wis 17) stem to imply that tlie siege

i ■»hi in ■ fill The same dynasty continued to

i ltrmrnal was aorceeded by Baal; and the

>vee9t changes in the government indicate iu-

■I reweiatan, but not subjection to a foreign

■r. Toe kiags wen superseded by judges or

- -i. and miter m tew years the royal line ap-  
■ to tare been restored; but whether by the

taneswe met of the Tynans, or by compulsion of

list* iauas, ia a disputed point.

smjwTs description of Tyre at the breaking out

>■ LWiylsuan war exhibits it as the head of the

aaeaws r**'— Sidon and Aradus are repre-

% ss fmmmbmg soldiers and mariners, and the

sas af BrbJns a* working in its dockyards,

e xxvi. 8.9, I i.) But that war was a severe

ij tbe puwer uf tiie Tynans, which now began to

Ss Cypa mm wmm wrested from them by Amasis,

«/ Egypt, though a branch of the regal family

• r~ stfcasn to have retained the sovereignty of

ass far samf generations, (Herod, v. 104;

79. 1, 2, 28.) Herbal us was suc-

srutlier Einmus. or Hiram, during

. i'jn« conquered Babylon (538 B.C.).

I sla> bxrvsr monarch pennitted the Jews to

jA liaaiaV m. we find Tyre and Sidon again

(f'zra, iii, 7), a proof that

aa still in a nourishing state.

mmmm (Cyrvpaed. i. 1. § 8) represents Cyrus as

I <w«r Pbuexacis as well as Cyprus and Egypt;

t»^h tlaa is not confirmed by any collateral

. -mrj asosw. at all eventa have very soon sub-

si is has son Cambyses. (Herod, iii. 19.)

I nia wuh Persia seem, however, to have

■1mm of a wluxitary alliance rather than of a

| swassztiasi; sinew, though the Phoenicians

»-. '.citiiai acpunst the Egyptians, they re-

i a* warwe srain^t their colonists the Cartha-

sw. Tawar flraC wax of great assistance to the

P-

Persians, and enabled Darius to make himself master

of the islands off the coast of Asia Minor. (Thucyd.

i. 16; Plat, ifenex. c. 9.) Phoenicia, with Palestine

and Cyprus, formed the fifth of the twenty nomes

into which the empire of Darius was divided. (Herod,

iii. 91.) These nomes were, in fact, satrapies; but

it does not appear that they interfered with the con­

stitutions of the several countries in which they

were established; at all events native princes con­

tinued to reign in Phoenicia. Although Sidon be­

came a royal Persian residence, it still had its native

king, and so also had Tyre. (Herod, viii. 67.)

When Darius was meditating his expedition against

Greece, Sidon supplied two triremes and a storeship

to enable Demooedes to explore the coasts, (lb.

iii. 136.) Subsequently the Phoenicians provided

the Persians with a fleet wherewith to reduce not

only the revolted Ionian cities, but even their own

former colony of Cyprus. In the last of these en­

terprises they wero defeated by the Ionian fleet

(lb. v. 108, 112); but they were the chief means of

reducing the island of Miletus (lb. vi. 6), by the

defeat which they inflicted on the Ionians off Lade,

(lb. c. 14.) After the subjugation of the Asiatic

islands, the Phoenician fleet proceeded to the Thra-

cian Chersonese, where they captured Metiochus,

the son of MUtiades (lb. c. 41), and subsequently

appear to have scoured the Aegean and to have

ravaged the coasts of Boeotia. (Ib. c. 118.) They

assisted Xerxes in his expedition against Greece,

and along with the Egyptians constructed the bridge

of bouts across the Hellespont. (Ib. vii. 34.) They

helped to make the canal over the isthmus of Mount

Athos, in which, as well as in other engineering

works, they displayed a skill much superior to that

of the other nations employed. (Ib. c. 23.) In

the naval review of Xerxes iu the Hellespont they

carried off the prize from all competitors by the

excellence of their ships and the skill of their mari­

ners; whilst among the Phoenicians themselves the

Sidonians were far the most distinguished (Ib. cc.

44, 96), and it was in a vessel belonging to the

hitter people that Xerxes embarked to conduct the

review, (lb. c. 100.) The Phoenician ships com­

posed nearly half of the fleet which Xerxes had col­

lected; yet at the battle of Arteinisiuin tbey do not

appear to have played so distinguished a part as the

Egyptians. (Ib. viii. 17.) When routed by the

Athenians at Salamis they complained to Xerxes,

who sat overlooking the battle on his silver-footed

throne, that their ships had been treacherously

sunk by the Ionians. Just at this instant, however,

extraordinary skill and valour were displayed by a

Samothracian vessel, and the Great King, charging

the Phoenicians with having falsely accused the

Ionians in order to screen their own cowardice and

ill-conduct, caused many of them to be beheaded,

(lb. c 90.) At the battle of the Eurymedon (u. c

466), the Phoenician fleet was totally defeated by

the Athenians under Cimon, on which occasion 100

of their vessels wero captured (Diod. xi. 62), or

according to Thucydides (i. 100) 200, who, how­

ever, is probably alluding to the whole number of

their fleet- Subsequently the Athenians obtained

such naval superiority that we find them carrying

on maritime operations on the coast of Phoenicia

itself; though in their unfortunate expedition to

Egypt fifty of their triremes were almost entirely

destroyed by the Phoenicians. (Thucyd. i. 109.)

This disgrace was wiped out by the Athenians

Anaxicratcs in a great victory gained over

B H 2

