INDUS. INGAUNI. 53

of these mouths, in a direction from W. to E., are: —

I. layma <rr6fui (the Pitti or Lohari), not impro­

bably in the arm of the stream by which Alexander's

nWt pained the Indian Ocean; 2. livhuv <rr6f*a

(the Hi kola); 3. Xpuerovv ffrofia (the Uagamari or

Kuhtrari), whereby merchandise and poods ascended

to Tatta; 4. Xd?i<poy or6pa ((he Mala f); 5. 2a-

-ia: 6. -a§oAa or 2a&£Acura (the Pinyari or  
Sr); 7. Awwfiapij (probably Lonivdri, the Purana,

Darja or A'on"). For the conjectural identifications

of these mouths, most of which are now closed, ex­

cept iu high floods, see Lassen's Map of Ancient

India. The principal streams which flowed into the

Indus are:—on the right orwestern bank of the river,

the Choaspcs, called by Arrian the Guraeus, and by

Ptolemy the Suastus (the Attok); and the Cophen

(Cdbul river), with its own smaller tributary the

Chow (the A'oir); and, on the left or eastern bank,

the greater rivers, — which give its name to the Pan-

jdb (or the country of the Five Rivers),— the Acesines

{Ckmab), the Hydaspes or Bidaspes (./e/um), the

Ihdntotes (/far*); and the Hypanis or Hyphasis

(the SutUdge). [See these rivers under their re-

tpective names.] As in the case of the Ganges, so

in that of the Indus, it has been left to modern

researches to determine accurately the real sources

of the river: it is now well known that the Indus

rL«w at a considerable distance on the NE. side of

the Himalaya, in what was considered by the Hindus

their most sacred land, and which was also the dis­

trict in which, on opposite sides of the mountains,

the Brahmaputra, the Ganges, and the Jumna, have

their several sources. From its source, the Indus

fiWs SW. to ful-ardu, and thence W. and S\V., till

it bursts through the mountain barriers, and descends

into the plain of the Panjdb, passing along the

western edge of Cashmir. (liittcr, Erdkunde, vol. v.

p. 216: Moorcroft, Travels in Ixtdakh and Cashmir,

1841.) The native name Sindhu has been pre­

served with remarkable accuracy, both in the Greek

writers and in modern times. Thus, in the Peri-

plo-s we find 2Eir0& (p. 23); in Ptolemy, 1tv€uv

(vii. 1. § 2), from which, by the softening of the Ionic

pronunciation, the Greeks obtained their form "i^Sos.

(Ct Pun. vi. 20; Cosmas, Indie, p. 337.) The

present name is Sind or Sindhu. (Ritter, vol. v. pp.

W, 171.) [V.]

IXDl'S, a river of the 6onth-east of Caria, near

the town of Cibyra, On its banks was situated, ac­

cording to Livy (xxxviiL 14), tho fort of Thabusion.

Pliny (v. 29) states that sixty other rivers, and up­

wind of a hundred mountain torrents, emptied them­

selves into it This river, which is said to have

mmed its name from Rome Indian who had been

thrown iuto it from an elephant, is probably no other

than the river Calbis (K&fcr, Strab. xiv. p. 651;

Ptol. v. 2. § 11; Pomp. Mela, i. 16), at present

called Qfangi, or Tavas, which has its sources on

SIiHint Cadmus, above Cibyra, and passing through

Cuts empties itself into the sea near Caunus, oppo­

site to the i>land of Rhodes. [L. S.J

IXDl'STKIA, a town of Liguria, situated on the

rizht bank of the Pad us, atwut 20 miles below

Tmruu It is mentioned only by Pliny, who tells us

that ks ancient name was Boimncomaous, which

he connects with Bodincus, the native name of the

Pados [Pai>c»], and adds that it was at this point

that river first attained a considerable depth. (Plin

iu. 16. s. 20.) Its site (which was erroneously fixed

by earlier writers at Casale) lias been established

beyond que*tion at a place called Monttit di Po, a

few miles below Chivasso, but on the right bank of

the river, where excavations have brought to light

numerous coins and objects of ancient art, some of

them of great beauty, as well as several inscriptions,

which leave no doubt that the remains thus dis­

covered are those of Industria. They also prove

that it enjoyed municipal rank under the Roman

empire. (Ricolvi e Rivautella, 11 sito delP antica

citta a"Ittdustria, ($-c.,'l\)ri\\o. 1745,4to.; Millin, Voy.

en Piemont, vol. i. pp. 308—311.) [E. H. B.]

INESSA. [Aetna.]

INFERUM MARE. [Tyukiienum Make.]

IXGAEVOXES. [Germania and Hellevio-

NES.]

INGAUNI ("Iyyawoi), a Ligurian tribe, who

inhabited the sea-coast and adjoining mountains,

at the foot of the Maritime Alps, on the W. side of

the Gulf of Genoa. Their position is clearly iden­

tified by that of their capital or chief town, Albium

Ingaunum, still called Albtnga. They appear to

have been in early times one of the most powerful

and warlike of the Ligurian tribes, and bear a pro­

minent part in the long-continued wars of the Ro­

mans with that ]«opIe. Their name is first men­

tioned in b. c. 205, on occasion of the landing of

Mago, the brother of Hannibal, in Liguria. They

were at that time engaged in hostilities with the

Epanterii, a neighbouring tribe who appear to have

dwelt further inland: the Carthaginian general con­

cluded an alliance with them, and supported them

against the mountaineers of the interior; he subse­

quently returned to their capital after his defeat by

the Romans in Cisalpine Gaul, and it was from

thence that he took his final departure for Africa,

B.C. 203. (Liv. xxviii. 46, xxx. 19.) After the

close of the Second Punic War, n, c. 201, a treaty

was concluded with the Ingauni by the Roman

consul, C, Aelius (Id. xxxi. 2); but sixteen years

later (in b. c. 185) we find them at war with the

Romans, when their territory was invaded by tho

consul Appius Claudius, who defeated them in se­

veral battles, and took six of their towns. (Id.

xxxix. 32.) But four years afterwards, b. c. 181,

they were still in arms, and were attacked for the

second time by the proconsul Aemilius Paullus.

This general was at first involved in great perils,

the Ingauni having surprised and besieged him in

his camp; but he ultimately obtained a great and

decisive victory, in which 15,000 of the enemy were

killed and 2500 taken prisoners. This victory pro­

cured to Aemilius the honour of a triumph, and was

followed by the submission of tho whole people of

the Ingauni (" Ligurum Ingaunorum omne nomen "),

while all the other Ligurians sent to Rome to sue

for peace. (Liv. xl. 25—28,34.) From this time

we hear nothing more of the Ingauni in history, pro­

bably on account of the loss of the later books of

Livy; for that they did not long remain at peace

with Rome, and that hostilities were repeatedly re­

newed before they were finally reduced to submis­

sion and settled down into the condition of Roman

subjects, is clearly proved by the fact stated by

Pliny, that their territory was assigned to them, and

its boundaries fixed or altered, no less than thirty

times. (" Liguribus Ingaunis agro tricies dato,'"

Plin. iii. 5. s. 6) They appear to have been much

addicted, in common with other maritime Ligurian

tribes, to habits of piracy, a tendency which they

retained down to a late period. (Liv. xl. 28, 41;

Vopisc. Procul. 12.) We find them still existing

and recognised as a separate tribe in the davs of

£3

