.-ins MEGALOPOLIS. MEGALOPOLIS.

insisted upon preserving the former dimensions of

the city. The former party, through the mediation

of Aratus, appear to have prevailed, and the city

whs unfortunately rebuilt in its original magnitude.

(Polyb. v. 93.) The fortifications were sufficiently

strong to resist the attack of the tyrant Nabis

(I'lut. PkSap. 13); but they were again suffered to

fall into decay; and even as soon as B.C. 175, we

find that Antiochus IV. Kpiphanes promised the

Megalopolitans to surround their city with a wall,

and gave them the greater part of the necessary

money. (Liv. xli. 20.) Pnlybius remarks (ix. 21)

that the population of Megalopolis in his time was

only the half of that of Sparta, although it was two

stadia greater in circumference. So much was it

reduced, that a comic poet, quoted by Strabo, de­

scribed "the Great City as a great desert" (ipritiia

fityi\rt VtIk r\ M«7aA?j woAir, viii. p. 388). Ac­

customed as rausania* was to the siizht of fallen

cities, the ruined condition of Megalopolis appears to

have particularly impressed him, and gave rise to

the reflections which he has inserted after his de­

scription of the city (viii. 33). Megalopolis was

the birthplace of Pbilopoemen, and of the historian

Polybius.

Megalopolis was situated in the middle of a plain,

and, unlike the generality of Grecian cities, possessed

no height, which might be converted into an acro­

polis. Mantineia, which was also rebuilt about the

same time, was placed in a level situation, instead of

its old position upon a hill. A level situation ap­

pears to have been chosen as more convenient for a

large population than the rocky heights upon which

the old Greek cities were built; while the improve­

ments which had been made in the art of fortifying

cities enabled their inhabitants to dispense with

natural defences. The city lay upon either bank of

the Helisson, which flowed through it from cast to

west, and divided it into nearly two equal parts.

RUINS OF MfcOAUll'OUS.

A A. Orettla,

B R. The Helluon.

C. Theatre.

D. Staillum.

K. Thrr«lllum.

K. Agora.

O. Temple of Athena Pollaj.

II. Tempi* of Hera Teleia.

I. The II,,ihj Ihi,.

The Helisson flows into the Alpheins about 2\

English miles from the city. The southern half of

the city was called Okkstia ('Optima), from an

ancient settlement of the Maenalians upon this spot.

(Steph. U. t. v. Ktya\n roAii.) The ruins of Me-

galopnlis are near the modem village of Soufcia ; hot

almost all trace of the walls has disappeared, be­

cause they were probably built, like those of Man­

tineia (Xen. HelL v. 2. § 5; Pans. viii. 8. § 5\ of

unburnt bricks. Pausanias has given a particular

description of the public buildings (viii. .TO—3-2). the

site of some of which may still be fixed by the exrst-

ing remains. The two most important building? were

the theatre, on the left or southern side of the rirer,

and the Agora on the right. The colossal remains isf

the theatre are conspicuous in the whole plain.

Several of the seats remain, and a part of the wall

of the cavca. It is described by Pausanias (viii 32.

§ 1) as the greatest theatre in Greece, and was 480

feet in diameter. Pausanias says that in the theatre

there was a perennial fountain, which Leake could

not find, but which Ross noticed in the Orchestral it

is now covered with rubbish, so that it is nut visible,

but in dry seasons it makes the ground quite moist

and slippery. On the eastern side of the theatre

was the stadium, the position of which is abdicated

in the shape of the ground near the river. Here is

a fountain of water, which Pausanias says was in

the stadium, and was sacred to Dionysus. On the

eastern side of the stadium was a temple of IKony-

sus; and below the stadium, towards the river, were

a sanctuary of Aphrodite, and an altar of Area.

Ross supposes a circular foundation close to the bank

of the rirer to be the altar of Ares, and a quadran­

gular foundation between this and the theatre to ha

the temple of Aphrodite. East of the temple of

Dionysus there is another source of water, also men­

tioned by Pausanias, by which we can fix the posi­

tion of the temple of Asclepins the Boy; atom

which, on a gently sloping hill, was a temple of

Artemis Agrotera. West of the theatre was the

Thersilium, named from the person who built it. in

which the Ten Thousand were accustomed to meet;

and near it was a house, built originally by Use Me­

galopolitans for Alexander, the son of Philip, la

this same locality there were a few foundations of a

temple sacred to Apollo, Hermes, and the Mmici

Opposite the western end of the theatre there are,

on both sides of the river, but mors especially on the

northern bank, large masses of square stones. The**

are probably the remains of the principal bridge over

the Helisson, which led from the theatre to the

Agora on the northern side of the river. The Ann

was built on a magnificent scale, and extended aVer;

the river close to the western walls of the city; sinre

Pausanias, who entered Megalopolis upon this sad*.

immediately came upon the Agora. As I'lamiiu

has given a fuller description of the Agora of Mea-a-

lopolis than of any other in Greece, the full.*nnf

restoration of it (taken from Curtins) may be foonsl

useful in understanding the general form and ar­

rangement of such buildings.

In the centre of the Ag <ra was an inrlorare tarred

to Zeus Lycaeus, who was the tutelary deity of sJa

Arcadia. It had no entrance; but the objects it

contained were exposed to public view; here was*

seen two altars of the god, two tables, two esurtra,

and a statue in stone of Pan. Before the sacred m-

cltaure of Zeus there wss s statue of ApuUo in brass*,

12 feet high, which was brought from Bawaat by

the Phigalians, to adorn the new capital; it ssar-

rived the destruction of the city, and is rep

on coins of Septimius Severus. This colossal

tue probably stood on the west side of the

luary of Zeus. To the right of the colossal ■

was the temple of the Mother of the Gods, of •

