340 MESSENE. MESSENIA.

The masonry was not in general such as has been

described at the towers near the pate of Megalopolis,

but, as in most Greek works of defence, consisted of

an exterior and interior facing of that kind of ma­

sonry filled up with rubble.

In describing Messcne, Pausanias first mentions

the Agora, which contained a fountain called Ar-

t-inoe, supplied by a subterraneous canal from the

source named Clepsydra. In the Agora, probably in

the centre, was a statue of Zeus Soter. The various

temples, which he then proceeds to enumerate,

either surrounded the Agora, or were in its imme­

diate neighbourhood. These were temples of Poseidon

and Aphrodite; a marble statue of the mother of the

god*, the work of Damophon, who also made the

Mntue of Artemis Laphria; a temple of Eileithyia,

a sacred building of the Curetes, and a sanctuary of

Demeter, containing statues of the Dioscuri. But

the temple of Asclepius contained the greatest num­

ber of statues, all of which were made by Damo­

phon. The temple of Messene contained her statue

in gold and Parian marble, while the back: part was

adorned with pictures representing the Messenian

heroes and kings. A building, called Hierosythium,

contained statues of all the gods worshipped by the

<ireeks. Pausanias next mentions the gymnasium,

with statues made by Aegyptian artists, a pillar

Waring a figure of Aethidas in relief, and the monu­

ment of Aristomenes,—the stadium containing a

brazen statue of Aristomenes ; and lastly, the theatre,

with the adjoining temple of Serapis and Isis. The

fountain called Clepsydra occurs in ascending to the

summit of It home. On the summit was a temple

of Zeus Ithomatas; and an annual festival, called

Ithomaca, was celebrated in honour of the god.

(Paus. iv. 31. § 6 —iv. 33. § 2.)

The Agora must have stood near the modern

village of Marromdti, in the neighbourhood of which

most of the foundations of the ancient buildings are

found. The rivulet, which now runs u neon fined

through the village, was in ancient times conducted

through a subterraneous canal, and formed the

fountain Arsinoe mentioned above. The modern

village has derived its name from the Bpring,—

Mavromdti meaning Black Spring or Black Ere.

South of the site of the Agora are the ruins of the

stadium, of which the upper or circular end and

more than half of one of the sides still remain.

The rivulet of Mavromdti now runs through the

length of the stadium. "The stadium was sur­

rounded by a colonnade, which was double at the

upper end: here the lower parts of the columns are

in their original places; there were about twenty in

each row, 1 foot 10 inches in diameter, with Doric

flu tings. Part of the colonnade, on the right side of

the stadium, is likewise in its place, and on the left

side is the foundation of a public edifice, where arc

many pieces of columns of the same description as

the colonnade round the stadium. Perhaps this

was the Hiorothysiuin. The stone seats of the sta­

dium did not extend its whole length, but about two-

thirds only; at the circular end, they are most perfect."

(I,e:ike.) Immediately south of the stadium is a

wall, which appears to have been part of the walls of

the city. In this wall a small temple is built, like

a kind of tower. Between the stadium and the village

of .\farrtmuitiy to the west of the rivulet, are the re­

mains of a small theatre, about 60 fi-et in diameter.

North of the stadiutn the slope is divided into terraces,

of which the supporting walls still remain. Here some

of the temples mentioned by Pausaulas probably stood*

In ascending Mount Ithome, there is about half

way up a terrace of considerable sire, which com­

mands a fine view of the Messenian gulf. Here the

French Commission discovered some ruins over­

grown with shrubs, which appear to have bees

an Ionic temple facing the east, containing a ponh

with two columns and a cella. This was probably a

temple of Artemis, as an inscription here found con­

tains the names of Measenians, who had held the

priesthood of Artemis Limnatis, and the remains of

the statue discovered in the cella appear to be those

of this goddess. Below the temple are two smaller

terraces ; and 60 feet further sideways, VVSW. of the

temple, is a kind of grotto cut out of the ruck, with

a portico, of which there are remains of five pillars.

This was, perhaps, intended to receive the water of

the fountain Clepsydra, which Pausanias mexttins

in his ascent to the summit of the mountain. Tbs

summit itself is a small hat surface, extending from

SE. to N W. On the northern and eastern aides the

wall runs along the edge of the perpendicular cliff*.

and some remains of a more ancient masonry may be

perceived, which probably belonged to the earlier

fortifications of Messcne. At the northern abd

broader end of the summit are the deserted buildings

of the monastery of Vurkano; this was undoubtedly

the site of the temple of Zeus Ithomatas. There is

a magnificent view from the summit. Along tbs

northern boundary of the horizon the Lycaean range

extends ; to the east are seen the mountains now

named MaJeryplai, which unite with the range of

TaVgetum; to the north-west the sea-coast between

the rivers Cyparissceis and Neda is visible; while to

the south the mouth of the Pamisus and the Mes­

senian gulf are spread open to view.

The similarity of Ithome to Acrocorinthos m no­

ticed by Strabo (viii. p. 361). He observe*, that

both are lofty and precipitous mountains, overhang­

ing their respective cities, but connected with them

by a common line of fortifications. Messcne conti­

nued to exist in the later times of the Koman em­

pire, as we learn from inscriptions; but in the

middle ages it had ceased to be a place of any im­

portance ; and hence the ancient remains bav* been

less disturbed by the hands of man than in ni.»t

other parts of Greece. (Leake, J/crta, vol. i. p. 366.

seq.; Mure, Tour in Greece, vol. ii. p. 264; Bub-

laye, Recherche*, $c., p. 107, seq.; Curtiua, /V**o»

potiMMts, voL ii. p. 138, seq.)

MESSE'NIA(M*ir*iji'i«, Herod., Thuc, in clter

writers, MWa^jKij, Horn. Otl. xxi. 15; M«rca#«,

Pind. Pyth. iv. 126; shortened M«r<rij, Me<rw,

Steph. B. i. r. Mtafryjyia; MfffOTji-lr y^r Thux. iv.

41 : AM. and Adj. Mtoafyios: Adj. M*<7o-nriaK»i\

the south-westerly district of Peloponneaoa, buejndnl

on the east by Laoonia, on the north by Eh* and

Arcadia, and on the south and west by llw sea. It

was separated from Laconia by lit. Taygetm, l«at

part of the western slope of this mountain bp|»if.r*J

to Laconia, and the exact boundary between lb* r«*

states, which varied at different times, will be men­

tioned presently. Its southern frontier was the knot

of mountains, which form the watershed of tba>

rivers Neda, Pamisus and AJpbeius, On the *outh

it was washed by the Me>senian gulf (•* M*ff<nvri*«*«

koAwoi, Strab. viii. p. 335). called al»» the Cor->-

naean or Asinaean gulf, from the towns of Corona «r

Asinc, on its western shore, now the Gmty of K+-

roni. On the east it was bounded by the Sicilian ar

Ionian sea. The area of Mc»*rida, ae calcuUled by

Clinton, from Arrowsmith'b map is 1162 square tn.ar*w

