THRACIA. 11S5 THRACIA.

eyeing to liim was emptied, the stones were Be-

.jr.iiely rented, and his life pronounced to have

"ru happy or the reverse, as the white or the black

\tn mure numerous.

V. H&toky.—Thrace is one of those countries

i :if«e jieople, not being sufficiently civilised to esta-

>h a national government or to possess a na-

kli! literature, cannot have histories of their

•a. We become acquaint**] with the Thraeians

: second hand, as it were, through the narrations

( f'-rrtcners, who necessarily make them subordinate

• tLcir uwn countrymen; and therefore it is only

i connection with foreign states that their history

a* been recorded. Hence it is fragmentary, and,

.vwequeotly, often obscure; nor would its import-

aor, indeed, repay the labour that might be em-

. -«1 iu elucidating it, even if we possessed the

Mu.wte materials. Destitute of union, the Thra-

i;.*. notwithstanding tlieir numbers, their wide

;r ;Hij*i, their powers of endurance, and their con-

rtij* of death, exerted no perceptible influence

[-n the general course of history; but were re-

*ni, in spite of their wild love of independence,

i-^ist, as bumble allies or subjects, in the ag­

in .i>ftnent of the more civilised or politic races

■ "ij which they came in contact. These were the

-ks, the Persians, the Macedonians, and the  
cTkios, with the successors of the last in the

ultra Empire. We shall now briefly state the

idnig points of their history, as connected with

uf the nations just mentioned ; referring the

» Vr for details, especially as to the little that is

-■■ «n of their purely internal affairs, to the articles

tiiii work which relate to the Bkssi, Odrysak,

■1 other prominent Thracian tribes.

\\ t f«sa over the alleged conquest of Thrace by

M«uis (Herod, ii. 103; Diod. i. 53), and that

! u> have been effected by the Teucri and Mysi

'rr the Trojan War (Herod, vii. 20; cf. Eurip.

War. 406, acq.), and come at once to the strictly

iti-ncaJ periods.

I*be first connection of the Greeks with Thrace

ia through colonics planted upon its various

■ !k, the original object of which seems generally

asve been of a commercial kind. Only an ap-

uuution to the date of most of these can be

■de. since the majority were established long be-

v the ossnmencentent of authentic history, lty-

: *.iin and N.']yiubria, colonies of Megara, belong

tae seventh century B. c, the year 675 ii. c.

a&»i£ned fur the foundation of the former.

<'.'*1 u. c. an unsuccessful attempt is said to

— been made by settlers from Chuomenae to

themselves at Abdera (Solin. x. 10); but

ii city was not actually founded till 5G0 B. c,

J then by emigrants from Tens. (Herod. L 168.)

MUioria, on the Euxine, was a colony of the

xastian* and Chalcedonians, who abandoned their

on the approach of the Phoenician fleet, u. c.

1 (Id. ri. 33). When Dicaea, Maronea, and

■ i\ all on the south coast, were established, is

. k-oovn; which is the case also with Cardia and

Oaa ia the Chersonesos. That these settlements

* friterallr exposed to the hostility of their  
raciaa neighbours, there can be no doubt, though

rarely have their infant struggles so fully re­

ded as in the instance of Amphipolis. The

--1:1113 sent no less than 10,000 men (n. c.  
-■) to found a colony there; and they succeeded

ir;ting off the Edonians who occupied the

-v.r;, but having advanced into the interior, they  
roL. U.

were defeated at Drabescus by the natives, and com­

pelled to abandon the country. About thirty years

afterwards, however, the Athenians returned, and

this time overcame all resistance. Sometimes the

relation between the Greeks and the Thraeians was

of a more friendly description. Thus, in the time of

Peisistratus, the Dolonci, who dwelt in the Clicrso-

nesus, invited Miltiades (the elder) to rule over

them, as they were unable to cope with their neigh­

bours the Apsinthii; and this led to the Athenians

obtaining a firm footing in that most important and

valuable district. (Herod, vi. 34, seq.) By these

various means, the Greeks had obtained possession

of nearly the whole coast of Thrace, a considerable

period before the commencement of the great contest

between themselves and the Persian empire. Of the

interior they appear to have known scarcely any­

thing whatever; and although in some cases the

surrounding barbarians may have been brought into

subjection (Byzantium is said to have reduced the

Ilitliynian Thraeians to tiie condition of tributary

perioeci), yet this was rarely the case. On the con­

trary, it is clear from Thucydides (ii. 97), that the

Greeks sometimes paid tribute to the native kings.

The Greeks, even when dwelling among hostile

strangers, showed their tendency to separation rather

than to union; and hence their settlements on the

Thracian coast never gained the strength which

union would have conferred upon them. Each city

had a government and to a great extent a history of

its own; and we must therefore refer the reader

for information respecting those states to the sepa­

rate articles in this work devoted to them.

The first Persian expedition to Thrace was that

of Darius, who crossed the Bosporus with his army

about b. c. 513 (or 508. as some authorities hold).

As the principal object of Darius was to chastise the

Scythians for their invasion of Asia in the reign of

Cy ax a res, he took the shortest route through Thrace,

where he met with no opposition. The Greeks

whom he found there were required to follow in his

train to the Danube: among them was the younger

Miltiades, the destined hero of Marathon, who then

ruled over the Chersonesus, as bis ancle had for­

merly done, and who had married the daughter

of a Thracian king. (Herod, vi. 39.) * On re­

turning from the north, Darius directed his inarch

to the Hellespont, and before crossing from Septus

into Asia, erected a fort at Doriscus, near the mouth

of the Ht brus. (Herod, iv. 89—93. 143. 144, vii.

59.) Megabazus was left with 8<>,(MHt men to

subdue the whole of Thrace, a task which he began

by besieging Perinthus, which, though previously

weakened by the altaiks of the Paeonians, made

a brave but fruitless resistance. After this, Mega­

bazus reduced the country into subjection, though

perhaps only the districts near the sea, (Herod, v.

I, 2, 10.) That his conquests extended as far

as the Strymon appears from Ihirius's grant of

a district upon that river to Histiaeus, who

founded there the town of My rein us. (Herod, v.

II. ) Megabazus soon returned to Asia; and it

seems probable that he took with him the greater

part of his army; for if the Persians had maintained

* Instances occur in later times of the intermar­  
riage of Greeks with Thraeians: thus the wife of

Sitalces was a daughter of Pythee, a citizen uf Ab­

dera (Thucyd. ii. 29); and Iphicrates married a

daughter of the Thracian king Cotys. (Nep. Jph.

i

