578 PEUSIS. PEKSEPOLIS.

PERSETOLIS (nepffe'iroAis, Diod. xvii. 70;

Ptol. vi. 4. § 4; Curt. v. 4. 6; UfpaaliroXts. Strab.

xv. 729: Kth. rifp(T«TroXiTTji), the capital of Persia

at the time of the invasion of Alexander, and the

teat of the chief palaces of the kinga of Persia. It

was situated at the opening of an extensive plain

(now called Mnr(hisht'), and near the junction of

two .streams, the Araxes (Btnilamir) and the MM us

(/W«*<in). The ruins, which are still very exten­

sive, bear the local name of the Chtl Mirutr, or

Forty Columns. According to Diodorus the city

was originally surrounded by a triple wall of preat

strength and beauty (xvii. 71). Strabo statM that

it was, after Susa, the richest city of the Persians,

and That it contained a palace of great beauty (xv.

p. 729), and adds that Alexander burnt this building

to avenge the Greeks for the similar injuries which

had been indicted on them by the Persians (xv. p.

730). Arrian simply states that Alexander burnt

the royal juilace, contrary to the entreaty of Pnr-

menion, who wished him to spare this magnificent

building, but does not mention the name of Perse-

jtolis. {Anab. iii. 18.) Curtius, who probably

drew Jus account from the many extant notices of

Alexander's expedition by different officers who had

accompanied him, has fully described the disgraceful

burning of the city and palace at Pvrsepolie by the

Greek monarch and his drunken companions. He

adds that, as it was chiefly built of cedar, the fire

spread rapidly far and wide.

Great light has been thrown upon the monuments

which still remain at Persepolis by the researches of

Niebuhr and Ker Porter, and still more so by the

interpretation of the cuneiform inscriptions by

Colonel Rawlinson and Prof. Lassen. From the

result of their inquiries, it seems doubtful whether

any portion of the present ruins ascend to so high a

period as that of the founder of the Persian mo­

narchy, Cyrus. The princijia.1 buildings are doubt­

less due to Darcius the son of Hystaspes, and to

Xerxes. The palace and city of Cyrus was at

Pasargada, while that of the later monarch* was at

Pcr>> polis. (Itawlinson. Jourti. of Roy. As, Soc.

vol. x; Lassen, in Ersch and Gruher's EncycL s.v.;

Fergusson, Palaces of AmkMh ami Pn'sepolis Res­

tored, Lend. 1851.) It has been a matter of some

doubt how far PersejKilis itself ever was the ancient

site of the capital; and many writers have supposed

that it was only the high place of the Persian

monarchy where the great palaces and temples were

grouped together. On the whole, it seems most

probable that the rock on which the ruins are now

seen wa-» the place where the palaces and temples

were placed, and that the city was extended at its

feet along the circumjacent plain. Subsequent to

the time of Alexander, Persepolis is not mentioned in

history except in Ukj second book of the Maccabees,

where it is stated that Antiochus Epiphancs made a

fruitless attempt to plunder the temples. (2 Maccab.

ix. 1.) In the later times of the Mohammedan

rule, the fortress of Istnkhr, which was about 4

miles from the ruins, seems to have occupied the

place of Persepolis; hence the opinion of some

writers, that I&Utkhr itself was part of the ancient

city. (Niebuhr, ii. p. 121: Chard in, Yoyayes, viii.

p. 245; Ker Porter, vol. i. p. 576; Ouselev, Travel*,

ii. p. 222.) * [V.]

PE'RSICUS SINUS (6 (tyttffof kA\tos, Strab.

ii. p. 78, xv. p. 727; Ptol. vi. 3. § 1. 4. § 1. pvxdf,

Ptol. vi. 19. § 1; i) Karh Elcpcai Sba\aaaa, iStrab.

xvi. p. 765; ?/ VltpaiK^ SaAavca, Agathem. i. 3;

Mare Persicum, Plin. vi. 13. s. 16), tb» rm» p

which, extending in a direction nearly KV.flU

separated the provinces of Sosiana and Penis, ■

the western portion of Carmania from the <^*ai

shores of Arabia Felix. There are great difftm

and great errors in the accounts which the iw»

have left of this gult; nor indeed are the fU'.ns

of the same author always consistent the ooM

the other. Thus some writers pare to it the ■

of the human head, of which tbe nam)* ops

towards the SE. formed the neck (Mela, iii. 'j!

vi. 24. s. 28.) Strabo in one place states thai

the entrance, it was only a day's sail acres (H

727), and in another (xvi. p. 765) that freeal

muza the opposite Arabian shore of Mace wasffc

in which Ammianus (xxiii. 6) agrees with him.

appears to have thought that the Persian Gin

little inferior in size to the Enxine sea {ic\

reckons that it was about 20.000 stadia b hi

(Cf. Agathem. i. 3.) He placed it also, ace*

to u certain system of parallelism, doe & ei

Caspian (ii. p. 121, cf. al»o xi. p. 519). Tbeej

mention of the Persian Gulf would appear toil

of Hecataeus (Steph. B.J. r. Kepu); but a d«fc

been thrown upon this passage, as scree MS&

■Karros instead of k6\-wos.

PEBSIS (v rUpffis, Aesrhrl. Per*. 60; 1

iii. 19; Plin. vi. 23. s. 25; Ainm. Marc. xxol|

7j UfpfTiK-h, Herod, hr. 39: F.th. n*p<nrr. Perea

province of Persia, which must be considered I

centre of the ancient realm of Persia, and Intel

from which the arms of the Persians <f

the neighbouring nations, was bounded an '.be

Media and part of the chain of tbe Paraebal

M.; on the \V. by Susiana, which U separated

Persis by the small stream Aroris orOroatis;<

S. by the Persian Gulf, and on tbe E. by tea

waste of Carmania. In the earlier period of!

this province was altogether unknown, and 1

not till the wars of Alexander and of his -■>■»

that the Greeks formed any real ctoceptwo.'

position anil character of the land. ftr*n whad

ancient and most formidable enemies tank

name. The whole province was wry iscaaal

with few extended plains; it y<o*i<ess#<d. nf

several valleys of ereat beauty an<l fertility, ai

for instance in the neighbourhood of t>*

(Stnh. xv. p. 727; Arrian, JmL c. 40: V - t

xxiii. 6; Chardin. Yog. iii. p. 255); tiw cej

appears to have been, as it is now, sandy af

and uninhabitable, owinp to the [-■:-■ r-V.vrmj

(Plin. 20.) The principal mountain thai

the names of I'aruchoathras (£7«rr*^) mad

(perhaps Xnkhiht), and were, in fart, priHq

to the sea of the still higher ran-.^ -4 Had

was watered by no preat rirrr. bu! a * ua

smaller streams are mentioned, some of tfcflaa

less little more than mountain torrents. H

of tli'-M' wm> tlif Ar:i\.-> ( />• n<V-r>vajr.) • be

(/Wituh). and the Cyrus (A"i.-rV in the m —

part of the country; and alone; tbe coast, tbe B

Padargns, Heratemis, Uhogouts, Oroatat, aW

vi. 23. s. 26; Airian. hul. c. 39; A mm. Mas

6; Strab. xvi. p. 727. Ac.) The principal ei

Persis were, Pasai;»;aha. its earliest c~&pafi

the site of the tomb of its first ror-r^rr^,

Persepous, the far-famed seat of the ym3m

temples of Dareins the son of Hy»:i?jvs *■

successors; Gabae, one of the rr lihan aa

Persian kings; Taoce, and Am-ah *s %.

The Persae were properly the native ixJm

