IiOMA. ROMA.

tion, over the three columns, Becker regards the

order of the Notitia as fully confirmed, and the three

temples to be respectively those of Concord, Ves­

pasian and Titus, and Saturn.

With regard to the.se inscriptions all are agreed

that the third, as here divided, belongs to the temple

of Concord; but with regard to the proper division

of the first two, there is great difference of opinion.

Bunsen and Becker divide them as above, but

Canina {Foro Rom. p. 179) contend* that the first

finishes at the word "restituit," and that the

words from '* DJro Vespasiano" down to " rest it ue-

rur.t:> form the second inscription, belonging to the

temple of Vespasian and Titus. In the original

codex containing the inscriptions, which is in the

library of Kinsiedlen, they are written consecutively,

without any mark where one begins and another

ends; so that the divisions in subsequent copies are

merely arbitrary and without any authority. Now

it may be observed that the first inscription, as di­

vided by Canina, may still be read on the architrave

of the eight columns, whicli it exactly fills, leaving no

space for any more words. Becker attempts to evade

this difficulty by the following assertion: "There is

no room," he says (Hatuib. p. 357), "for the de­

dication 1 Divo Vespasiano,' on the front of the

temple; and although it is unusual for one half of

an inscription to be placed on the back, yet on this

occasion the situation of the temple excuses it!"

We are of opinion, then, that the whole of the

words after " restituit " down to the beginning of the

inscription on the temple of Concord, belong to the

temple of Vespasian, or that of which three columns

still remain. Another proof that the words " Divo

Vespasiano Augusto" could never have existed over

the temple with the eight columns is that Poggio

(rfd VarieL Fort. p. 12), in whose time the build­

ing was almost entire, took it to be the temple of

Concord, which he could not have done had the de­

dication to Vespasian belonged to it. (Bunbury, in

Class. Mu$. iv. p. 27, note.) Thus two out of

Becker's three arguments break down, and all that

he has to adduce against the mass of evidence,

from the best classical authorities, on the other

side, is a stiff and pedantic interpretation of the

proposition jnj-ta in such a writer as Servius! Thus

it is Becker himself who is amenable to his own

charge of shutting his eyes against historical evi­

dence. His attempt to sejtaiate the altar from the

temple (fhiudb. p.313), at least in locality, is equally

unfortunate.

fa

NATVS PCFVLVSQE UHANVS

fr.cEvprq corir'/MPTvtfl -hestjtvit

11

TKMPI.E OF SATURN.

The remains of the temple of Saturn, at tri ■

tico with the eight columns at the head of uV f-na,

are in a rude and barbarous style of art.Mwitb

columns being larger in diameter than rnhfri. Has

Canina infers that the restoration wia i ren ti ar,

and probably subsequent to the removal of tk a*

of empire to Constantinople. Fmm tbe most uasl

times the temple of Saturn served

or state treasury, where the public

tary ensigns, and important documents

served (Liv. iii. 69; Plut Q, R. 43;"

Solin. i. 12, &c). On account of it* Gnats

sacrifices were performed at the altar <rf S

the Greek rite, that is, capite aperta,

capite velato as among the Romans (Mat

Adjoining the temple of Saturn wis ■

or Aedks of Ops. which served as i fc

public money. The Fasti J mt/rmmi aod

cvrttm mention it as being" ad Forms.'

Vico Jugario," which determines its

(Calend, A mil. Ike.; CmL Caprtm. Aif-\

several times alluded to by Cicero: " Penis*

ad Opis maneret" {PlriL L 7. cf. U. 14).

the temple stood a statue of Si 1 vinos and s

fig-tree, which it was necessary to

493, as its roots began to upset tbe

xv. 20). Behind the temple, in I

or Angiportus, and about midway op tbr

the clivus, was the Porta Sterooraiia,

a place where the ordure from the tempo;

was deposited on the 15th of Jane t*

(Varr. L. L. vi. § 32, Mull.; Festus, p. 3

custom seems to have been connected wrti

of Stercutus applied to Saturn by the

inventor of applying manure to tlx fie

Sat i. 7.) Close to the Ara Saturni

Saoklixm -Dms, in which wa* masks

pended during the Saturnalia, (/ft. 11.)

But the most important altera* ice ma*

quinius Priscus with regard to the tVrum

causing of porticoes and shops to he erertoi

it (Liv. i. 35; Dionys. iii. 67). Tbis

forum a fixed and unalterable shape.

wonder at the smallness of its are* wba

that this was the great centre of

business for the mistress of the wor

must recollect that its bounds wen

when she herself was not yet secure

attempts of surrounding nations. As b

population gradually increased

adopted for procuring more

by the erection of spacious

the imperial times, by the construct**

{bra. But at first, the structures that

forum were rather of a useful than

and the tabernae of Tarquin

shops, schools, and other places of a Bh

as we leani from the story of Virginia.

berxae were distinguished by the muncs

and Norat, whence it seems probssbte

former were erected in the time of ~

sides of the forum, lengthways, derived

from them, one being called jW> V

sub Xoris. A passage iu Cicero, wha

these tabernae with the old and new

ables us to determine their re&pectiw

qui subNovis solem non fenrot,

arct, vetermn, ut Maenianorum,

umbram secutus est" (Acad, it.

upjears that the A'oroe, being exx»*rf

must have been on the northern <J

