70G RHEGIUM.

and Bruttium, laying waste those provinces on his

march, and made himself master of Rhegium, from

whence he tried to CTOSS over into Sicily, but, being

frustrated in this attempt, retraced his steps as far

as Consentia, where he died. (Hist. Misccll. xiii.

p. 535.) Somewhat later it is described by Cas-

nodorua as still a nourishing place ( Var. xii. 14),

and was still one of the chief cities of Bruttium in

the days of l'aulus Diaconns. (Hist. Lang. ii. 17.)

During the Gothic wars after the fall of the West­

ern Empire, Rhegium bears a considerable part,

and was a strong fortress, but it was taken by

Totila in a. r>. 549, previous to his expedition to

Sicily. (Procop. B. G. i. 8, iii. 18,37, 38.) It

subsequently fell again into the hands of the Greek

emperors, and continued subject to them, with the

exception of a short period when it was occupied by

the Saracens, until it passed under the dominion of

Robert Guiscard in a. d. 1060. The modern city of

JReggio is still a considerable place, with a popu­

lation of about 10.000 souls, and is the capital of

the province of Calabria Ultra; but it has suffered

severely in modern times from earthquakes, having

been almost entirely destroyed in 1783, and again

in great part overthrown in 1841. It has no re­

mains of antiquity, except a few inscriptions, but

numerous coins, urns, mosaics, and other ancient

relics have been brought to light by excavations.

Rhenium Wis celebrated in antiquity as the birth-

plate of the lyric poet Ibycus, as well as that of Lycus

the historian, the father of Lycophron. (Suid.a. t\

v\€ukos; Id. s. r, Avkos.) It gave birth also to the cele­

brated sculptor Pythagoras (Diog. Lae'rt. viii. 1. § 47;

Paus. vi. 4. § 4); and to several of the minor Pytha­

gorean philosophers, whose names are enumerated

by lamblicbua (I'if. Pytk. 2G7), but none of these

are of much note. Its territory was fertile, and

noted for the excellence of its wines, which were

especially esteemed for their salubrity. (Athen. i.

p. 2G.) Cassiodorus describes it as well adapted

fur vines and olives, but not suited to corn. (Var.

xii. 14.) Another production in which it excelled

WIS its breed of mules, so that Anaxilas the despot

was repeatedly victor at the Olympic games with

the chariot drawn by mules (aTnrjrrj), and his son

Leophron obtained the same distinction. One of

these victories was celebrated by Sinionides. (He-

raclid. Polit. '25; Athen. i. p. 3 ; Pollux, Onomast.

v. 75.)

Rhegium itself was, as already mentioned, the

termination of the line of high-road which traversed

the whole length of Southern Italy from Capua to

the Sicilian strait, slid was first constructed by the

praetor Popilius in B.C. 134. (Orell. inter. 3308;

Mommsen, Inscr. R. N. 6276; Ritschel, Mon. Epigr.

pp. 11, 12.) But the most frequented place of passage

for crossing the strait to Messana was, in ancient

as well as in modern times, not at Rhegium itself,

but at a spot about 9 miles further N., which was

marked by a column, and thence known by the name

ofCoLUMNA RBSGIKA. (Itm. Ant. pp. 98, 106,

111; Plin. iii. 5. s. 10; $ Pwyuw arv\h, Strab.

v. p. 257.) The distance of this from Rhegium is

given both by Pliny and Strabo at V2\ miles or 100

stadia, and the latter places it only 6 stadia from

the promontory of Caenys or Punta rf*:l Ptzzo. It

must therefore have been situated in the neighbour­

hood of the modern village of Villa San Giovanni,

which is still the most usual place of passage. But

the distance from Rhegium is overstated by both

geographers, the Punta del Pczzv itself being less

than 10 miles from Reggio. On u» fejlfl tsa)

the inscription of La Polla (Forom PopJii) m

the distance from the place of ptsaare, w lues J

designates as "Ad Statuam," at only $ i

(Mommsen, Inter. R. X. 6276 ) Yet it is

bable that the spot meant is rally the

both cases, as from the strong current is

straits the place of embarkatioo most alwiyi I

been nearly the same. [L U. B.J1

fM

COIN* OF RI1EGIIH.

RHEGMA fFajVssa), the name of i

gone formed by the river Cydnas at 1

mouth, about 5 stadia below Tsrsas; tsti

ants of this city used it as their P«i

xiv. p. 672; Stadititm. Afar. Mao. lSs\J

where it is called 'Ptryfjuoi\ It. Hiem.r.\

The two last authorities place the RbfcraSOsI

from Tarsus, which may possibly refer tee"

cular point of it, as the Rhegma wu «7<

sive. [1*8

R H E G MA. [ Epimarasitae.]

RHEI'MEA (*P«o*«a, Bocih, Inter, sal

a town of Auranitis, as appears from to i

found by Burckhardt (Trartis, p. 69) it J

Lcbtn, situated three-quarters of an I

modern village of Rima-el-LvJ\f, where I

a building with a flat roof and three I

the dead, with an inscription over the <3

Inter. 4587 — 4589; comp. B»

Tribes, p. 256.)

RHEITHRUM. [Ithaca, p. 99,*.]

RHEITI. [Attica, p. 328, a.]

RHKNI. [Reml]

RHEXEIA. [Dklos, p. 76a]

RHENUS ('Pijvos), one of lh«

Europe, is not so long as the I

commercial channel it in the 6rstcf i

and as a political boundary it has

ancient and modem times the most i

tier in Europe. The Rhine rises in'

which belong to the gr >up of the*

Switzerland, about 46° 3tf N. laL 1

branches. The Vorder- Rhein and the J

meet at Dlssentis, which is only a fe» I

their respectire sources. The united (

an east by north course to Rcickrmt*, <

joined by the IIinter-JttsaB. At

which is below the junction of the j

the river becomes navigi

northern conrse to the Bodemttm or *

statu, the Lac us Brigantinua or Va

lake consists of two porta, of which

part or Inter tee, is about 30 fcet

chief [art, called the Lake of Cot*

of the Rhine from the Z~nUr*ee is i

navigable as far as the Calls of »

are not mentioned by any of the i

It is interrupted by a stnaJJer fall I

and there is a rapid near .

below Lauftnburg. The course ts i

