THESSALIA. 1167 THESSALIA.

rtes (fl^t itAe*. vi. p. 265), this can only be true

i * put of them tribe*, as we know that the Penestae

tit entirely distinct from the subject Perrhaebians,

la^arlea, and Achaean*. (AristoU Polit ii. 6. § 3.)

v iVorttae, like the Laconian Helots, frequently

w ia revolt against their masters.

Jn tlie Homeric poems the names of Perrhaebi,

Ucnrte*, Achaeaus, and Do)opes occur; ami Aehaea

f.Uiiotb was the residence of the great hero Acliiltes.

",m district was the seat of llellen, the founder of

,e Hrlknic race, and contained the original Hellas,

hi which the Hellenes gradually spread over the

-i J Greece. (Horn. 11 ii. 683; Time. i. 3;  
;r»k ix, p. 431; Dicaearch. p. 21, ed. Hudson;

■ryh. B. #. c. 'EAAotf)- The Achaean* of Phthi-

it nay fairly be regarded as the same race as the

rosesns of Peloponnesus.

I'hrvaly Proper was divided at an early period

:>j four districts or tetrsxehies, named Thessaliotis,

•kviotia, Hibtiaeotia and Phthiotis. When this

ruioo was introduced is unknown. It was older

->n Ilecatseus (Steph. B. a. v. Kpavvwv), and was  
<T.t»d to Aleuas, the founder of the family of the

>-uulae, (Hellenic Fraym. 28, ed. Didot; Jlar-

ml.».r. T«Tpapxia; Strsb. ix. p. 430.) This

xJruple division continued to the latest times, and

'".«to have been instituted for political purposes;

respecting the internal government of each we

<e no precise information. The four districts

tv nominally united under a chief magistrate,

l«l Tagus; but he seems to have been only ap-

i'Ued in war, and his commands were frequently

-Vyed by the Tbessalian cities. "When Thessaly  
tiinJer a Tagus," said Jason, despot of Pherae,

its* can send into tlie field an army of 6000

'dry ami 10.000 hoplitcs.** (Xen. Hell. vi. 1.

). But Thessaly was rarely united. Tlie

f-rrnt cities, upon which the smaller towns were

1' odent, not only administered their own affairs

i-prndnit of one anotlter, but the three most

rwrtant, Larinsa, Pharsalus and Pherae, were

ipently at feud with one another, and at the same

■* t.irn with intestine faction. Hence they were

in to (tfer little resistance to invaders, and never

tapted that position in Grecian history to which

nr population and wealth would seem to have

'•t>d them. (Respecting the Thessalians in

■serai, ace sir. Grote's excellent remarks, Hist.

Irrrrce, vol. U. p. 363, f«|.)

lit* hUtsry of Theasaly may be briefly dismissed,

it* most important events are related under the

vite cities. Before the Persian invasion, the

had extended their power as far as

ireatened to overrun Phocis

d the country of the Locrians. The Phocians

ill a wall across the pass of Thermopylse to keep

the Tbeasalians; and though active hostilities

as to bare ceased before the Persian invasion, as

■ wall wss at that time in ruins, the two nations

tinned to cherish bitter animosity towards one

•*a#r. (Herod, vii. 176.) When Xerxes invaded

-"^e. tlie Tnessalians were st first opposed to tlie  
-tins. It is true that the powerful family of  
» Akruadas, whom Herodotus calls (vii. 6) kings

r>nasaly. had urged Xerxes to invade Greece,

i Itssi promised tlie early submission of their

■o trims; but it is evident that their party was

it is probable that they were

in exile, like the Athenian Peisistratidue.

of the Thessalians sent envoys to the

at the Isthmus, urging them to

send a force to the pass of Tempo, and promising

them active co-operation in the defence. Tlieir re­

quest was complied with, aud a body of 10,000

heavy-armed infantry was despatched to Thessaly;

but the Grecian commander.-, upon arriving at

Tempe, found that there was another pass across

Mount Olympus, and believing it impossible to

make any effectual resistance north of Thermopylae,

retreated to their ships and abandoned Thessaly.

(Herod, vii. 172, seq.) The Thessalians, thus de­

serted, hastened to make their submission to Xerxes;

and under the influence of the Alcuadae, who now

regained the ascendency in Thessuly, they rendered

zealous and effectual assistance to the Persians.

Afier the death of Leonidas and his heroic com­

panions at Thermopylae, the Thessalians gratified

their enmity against the Phocians by directing tlie

march of tlie Persians against the Phucian towns

and laying their country waste with fire and sword.

Prom tlie Persian to the PelopouneMan wars the

Thessalians are rarely mentioned. After the battle

of Oenophyta (u. c. 456) had given the Athenians

the ascendency in Boeotia, Locris, and Phocis, they

endeavoured to extend their power over Thessaly.

With this view they marched into Thessaly under

the command of Myronides in ». c 454, for the

purpose of restoring Orestes, one of tlie exiled no­

bles or princes of Pharsalus, whom Thucydidcs calls

son of the king of the Thessalians. Tlie progress

of Myronides was checked by tlie powerful Thes-

saiiau cavalry; and though he advanced as far

as Pharsalus, he was unable to accomplish any.

thing against the city, and was compelled to re­

treat. (Time. i. Ill; Diodor. xi. 85.) In the

Peloponnesi.w War the Thessalians took no jart;

but the mass of the population wus friendly to the

Athenians, though the oligarchical governments

favoured the Spartans. With the assistance of the

Utter, combined with his own rapidity and address,

Brasidas contrived to march through Thessaly in

n. c 424, on his way to attack the Athenian de­

pendencies in Macedonia (Thuc. iv. 78); but

when tlie Lacedaemonians wished to send rein­

forcements to Brasidas in the following year, the

Thessalians positively refused them a passage

throngh tlieir country. (Thuc. iv. 132.) In b. c

395 the Thessalians joined the Boeotians and their

allies in the league against .Sparta; and when

Agesilaus marched through their country in the

following year, having been recalled by the Spartan

government from Asia, they endeavoured to intercept

him on his return; but their cavalry was defeated

by the skilful manoeuvres of Agesilaus. (Xen.

UtU. vi. 3. § 3, seq.)

About this time or a little earlier an important

change took place in the political condition and re­

lative importance of the Tbessalian cities. Almost

down to the end of the Peloponnesian War the

powerful families of the Aleuadae at Larissa, of tlie

Scopadae at Crannon, and of the Creondac at

Pharsalus, possessed the chief power in Thessaly.

But shortly before the close of thia war Pherae rose

into importance under the administration of Lyco-

pliron, and aspired to the supremacy of Thessaly.

Lycophron overthrew the government of tlie nobles

at Pherae, and made himself tyrant of the city. In

prosecution of his ambitious schemes he attacked

Larissa; and in B.C. 404 he gained a great victory

over the I-arissaeans and the other ThessslianV

who were opposed to him. (Xen. I/tlL ii. 3. § 4.)

In n. c. 395 Lycouhron was blill engaged in a aw*-

