MEDIOLANUM. 30r, MEDOACUS.

tenth Itin. it forms the terminus of a route from

Gtoiorent*. [C. R. S.]

MEDIOLA'NUM (MffcoXdyiov, Ptol. ii. 11. § 28),

i town in the north-west of Germany, mentioned

only by Ptolemy; its site must in all probability be

itienrined with the modern Meltln, on the river

YttJu. As the name Mediolanum is found only in

countries inhabited by Celts, it has been supposed

that Ptolemy is wrong, and that he by mistake

placed this town on the right bank of the Rhine;

but there is no good reason for doubting that the

country about the Vecht was at one time occupied

by a Celtic people. [L. S.]

'MEDIOMATRICI (M«oioudVp«er, ptol. ii. 9.

$ 12), a people of Gallia, who belong to the division

of Belgica. Caesar (.B. G. iv. 10) shows their posi­

tion iu a general way when he says that the Rhine

flows along the territories of the Sequani, Medio­

matrici, Triboci or Tribocci, and Treviri. Ptolemy

places the Mediomatrici south of the Treviri. 1 >i-

Todurum (ifelz) was their capital. [Divodubum.]

The diocese of Metz represents their territory, which

•a accordingly west of the Votget. But Caesar

wakes the Mediomatrici extend to the Rhine, and

euteqnently they bad in his time the country

between the Yotgct and the Rhine. And this agrees

with Strabo (p. 193), who says that the Sequani

and Mediomatrici inhabit the Rhine, among whom

are settled the Tribocci, a German nation which had

crwsed over from their own country. It appears

then that part of the territory of the Mediomatrici

had been occupied by Germans before Caesar's time;

and as we know that after Caesar's time the German

tribes, Xemetes, Vangiones, and Caracates occupied

the Gallic side of the Rhine, north of the Triboci

as far as Mainz, and that north of Mainz was the

territory of the Treviri, we may infer that all these

tribes were intruders on the original territoiy of the

Mediomatrici. [G. L.]

-MEDION. [Meteon.]

MEDITERRA'NEUM MARE. [Internum

M.uee]

MEDMA or MESMA (M<8>q, Stepb. B.; Mi5.ua,

Strab., Scymn. Ch.; but Vliaua on coins, and so

Af> Jl'.lorus, cited by Stepb. B.; Scylax has Me'oa,

evidently a corruption for Mttrpa: JSth. Mtouahs,

M«<ruau»), a Greek city of Southern Italy, on the

W. coast of the Bruttian peninsula, between Hip-

posimn and the mouth of the Metaurus. (Strab. ri.

f- z56: Scyl. p. 4. § 12.) It was a colony founded

by the Euiiephyrian Locrians, and is said to have

derived its name from an adjoining fountain. (Strab.

I c; Scymn. Ch. 308 ; Steph. B. ». v.) But though

it ii repeatedly noticed among the Greek cities in

thu part of Italy, it does not appear ever to have

attained to any great power or importance, and its

came never figures in history. It is probable, how­

ever, that the Medimnaeans (MeSi^ivaioi), who are

nriciced by Diodorus as contributing a body of co-

Vaults to the repeopling of Mcssana by Dionysius in

a.c,39o,are no other than the Medmaeans, and that

we should read Meouaun in the passage in question.

(l)iod. xiv. 78.) Though never a very conspicuous

(tax, Medina seems to have survived the fall of

many other more important cities of Magna Graecia,

a»i it is noticed as a still existing town both by

S*r»bo and Pliny. (Strab. /. c.; Plin. iii. 5. s. 10.)

hat the name is not found in Ptolemy, and all sub­

sequent trace of it disappears. It appears from

^*nd» that the town itself was situated a little

ukai, and that it bad a port or emporium on tie

sea-shore. The exuct site has not been determined,

but as the name of Mesima is still borne by a river

which flows into the sea a little below Nicotera,

there can be no doubt that Medina was situated

somewhere in the neighbourhood of that town, and

probably its port was at the mouth of the river

which still bears its name. Nicotera, the name of

which is already found in the Antonine Itinerary

(pp. 106, 111), probably arose after the decline of

Mesma. ' [E. II. B.]

COIN OF MEDMA.

MEDMASA (MfSfiaaa or M<8/iwr>0, a town

of Caria, situated somewhere in the peninsula

between the Ceramian and Iasian gulf, not far

from Myndus. (I'lin. v. 29; Steph. B. ». v.;

Hecat Fragm. 230.) It is probably the same town

as the one which Stephanos elsewhere calls At'S-

ixaaa: its site is unknown. [I.. S.j

MEDOACUS or MEDUACUS (MfOdWi:

Brenta). a river of Northern Italy, in the province

of Venetia, falling into the extensive lagnnes which

border the coast of the Adriatic, in the neighbour­

hood of the modern Venice. According to Pliny

(iii. 16. s. 20), there were two rivers of the name,

but no other author mentions more than one, and

Livy, a native of the region, mentions the "Me-

duacus amnis" without any distinctive epithet.

(I.iv. x. 2.) There can be no doubt that this is the

river now known as the Brenta, which is a very

considerable stream, rising in the mountains of the

Val Sugana, and flowing near Padua (Patavium).

A short distance from that city it receives the waters

of the Bacckiglione, which may probably be the

other branch of the Medoacus meant by Pliny.

Strabo speaks of a port of the same name at its

mouth (Meooaffor \tfifiv, v. p. 213), which served

as the port of Patavium. This must evidently be

the same to which Pliny gives the name of Portus

Edro, and which was formed by the "Medoaci duo

ac Fossa Clodia:" it is in all probability the one

now called Porto di Lido, close to Venice. The

changes which have taken place in the configuration

of the lagnnes and the channels of the rivers, which

are now wholly artificial, render the identification of

the ports along this coast very obscure, but Strabo's

statement that the Medoacus was navigated for a

distance of 250 stadia, from the port at its mouth

to Patavium, seems conclusive in favour of the

Porto di Lido, rather than the more distant one of

Chiozza. At the present day the Brenta flows, as

it were, round the lagunes, and enters the sea at

Brondolo, evidently the Portus Brundulus of Pliny

(/. c.) ; while a canal called the Canale di Brenta,

quitting the river of that name at Doh, holds a

more direct course to the lagunes at Fugma. This

canal may perhaps be the Fossa Clodia of l'liny.

Livy tells us that, in B.C. 301, Cleonymus the

Lacedaemonian arrived at the mouth of the Me­

doacus, and having ascended the river with some of

his lighter vessels, began to ravage the territory of

the Pataviui, but that people repulsed his at­

VOL IL

