XILUS. NILUS. 435

from the month of the river upon the plain of

the Delta. (Diodor. i. 38—40.) This, however,

though partially true, will not account for the inun­

dation of Upper Aegypt, or for the periodical rising

of the rivers N. of Aethiopia, It was attributed

to the connection of the Nile with the great South­

ern Ocean, whose waters, from long exposure to the

sun, were deprived, it was thought, of their saline

ingredients in their course through the Nile-valley.

(Diodor. i. 40.) By Ephoras (ed. Man, p. 23) it

was derived from exudation through the sands; while

Herodotus suggested that the vertical position of the

sun in winter reduced the waters of Southern Libya

to the lowest ebb. But this hypothesis kept out of

richt their overflow in summer. Agatharchides of

Oiidus, who wrote in the second century b. c, was the

first to divine the true cause of the inundation.. The

rains which fall in May upon Aethiopia occasion the

rise of the rivers that flow northward from it. As the

sun in his progress from the equator to the tropic of

Cancer becomes successively vertical over points N. of

the equator, the air is heated and rarified, and the

cold currents set in from the Mediterranean to restore

the equilibrium. They pass over the heated plains

of Aegypt; but as soon as they reach the lofty

mountains ot Abyssinia, they descend in torrents of

rain. Sheets of water fall impetuously from their

northern slope upon the grand tableau, from the

grand tableau upon the plains which contain the

sources of the White and Blue Rivers, and through

their channels and confluents pass into the Nile. In

the hut days of June, or at the beginning of July,

tba rise is risible in Aegypt: about the middle of

August the dykes are cut, and the flood drawn off

K- and W. by innumerable canals; and between

the 20th and 30th of September the maximum

height is attained. For a fortnight the flood re­

mains stationary: about the 10th of November, it

has perceptibly diminished, and continues to decrease

slowly until it attains its minimum; at this time

its depth at Cairo is not more than 6 feet, and in

the Delta its waters are nearly stagnant. In the

time of Herodotus (ii. 13) the height of a good Nile

was 15 or 16 cubits; and around the statue of the

Kile, which Vespasian brought from Aegypt and set

up in the Temple of Peace, were grouped sixteen

diminutive figures emblematic of these measures.

(Piin. xxxvi. 9. e, 14.) The rise of the Nile was

carefully noted on the Kilometers at Primis (Jbrim),

Elr-phantine, and Memphis; and the progress or de­

cline of the inundation was reported by letters to diffe­

rent parts of Aegypt, in order that the farmers might

calculate on the time when sowing might commence.

A flood of the height of 30 feet is ruinous,—under­

mining houses, sweeping away cattle, and destroying

the produce of the fields. The land, also, is rendered

too spongy for the ensuing seed-time; the labours of

tillage are delayed; and epidemic diseases arise from

tie lingering and stagnant waters. On the other

haad, if the waters do not rise 24 feet, the harvest

b scanty; and if they are below 18, terrible famines

are the consequence, such as that of which Diodorus

speaks (i. 84). and which are not unknown in more

recent times (Volney, Voyage en Syrie et en Egypte,

Tci L ch. 11; Abdallatiphs Hist, of Egypt, p. 197,

White's edit.), during which the starving population

lure been driven to feed on human flesh.

Upper and Middle Egypt during the inundation

prt?*nt the appearance of a vast inland lake, bounded

ty mountains. But the usual moans of intercourse

•re not interrupted, since the immediate banks of the

river are seldom under water, which is discharged

through the frequent apertures of the dykes, at first

upon the verge of the desert, and afterwards upon

the land nearer the flood. The Delta, however, being

devoid of hills,is,during an extraordinary ri.se, laid en­

tirely under water, and the only means of communi­

cation between the towns and villages arc boats and

rafts- Herodotus (ii. 97) compares the appearance

of Lower Aegypt at this season to the Aegean sea,

studded by the Sporades and Cyclades.

As the direct highway between the Mediterra­

nean and Mcroe, the Nile, in all periods, at least

during the prosperous ages of Aegypt, presented

a busy and animated spectacle. The Aegyptians,

who shunned the sea as the element of the destroy­

ing Typhon, regarded their river with affection and

reverence, as the gift and emblem of the creating

and preserving Osiris. Its broad and capacious

bosom was in all seasons of the year studded with

river-craft, from the raft of reeds to the stately

Baris or Nile barges. Up the Nile to the markets

of Diospolis passed the grain and fruits of the Delta;

and down the stream came the quarried limestone of

the Thebaid to the quays of Sais and Canopus. -No

bridge spanned the river during its course of 1500

miles; and the ferrying over from bank to bank was

an incessant cause of life and movement. The

fishers and fowlers of the Nile diversified the scene.

Respecting the qualities of the fish there is con­

siderable discrepancy among ancient writers — tome

describing it as coarse or insipid, others as highly

nutritive and delicate in its flavour. (Athen.

vii. p. 312.) Fifty-two species of fish are said to

be found in the Nile. (Russegger, Reisen, vol. i.

p. 300.) Of these the genus Stlurus was the most

abundant. Fish diet is well suited to the languid

appetites of a hot climate; and the Israelites, when

wandering in the desert, regretted the jbth as well

as the vegetables of Aegypt. (Numbers, xi. 5.)

They were caught in greatest abundance in the

pools and lakes during the season of inundation.

In the marshy districts of the Delta, where grain,

owing to the spongy and bibulous character of the

soil, could not be raised, the inhabitants lived prin­

cipally upon fish dried in the sun ; and, in later

times at least, they were salted, and exported in

great quantities to the markets of Greece and Syria.

The modes of catching them are represented in

the paintings, and were the line, the net, and tho

prong. (See Abdallatiph, ap. Rosellini, M. C. vol. i.

p. 230.) The great extent of marsh land in Aegypt,

and the long continuance of the inundation, caused

it beyond all other countries to abound in water­

fowl. The fowlers are represented in the paintings

as spreading nets, or as rowing in their boats among

the aquatic plants, in which the birds nestled,

and knocking them down with sticks. The uso of

decoy-birds was not unknown; and smoked or salted

wild-fowl were an article of export. The edible

water-fowl are mostly of the goose and duck {anas)

tribe; the quail also is mentioned by Herodotus (ii.

77) as among tho Bpecies that were dried in tho

sun and slightly salted for home consumption and

export.

The Fauna of the Nile were the hippopotamus

and the crocodile, with many lesser species of tho

saurian genus. In the more remote ages both

were found through the whole course of the river

(Diodor. i. 35), although at present the hippopo­

tamus rarely descends below the second Cataract,

or the crocodile below 27° N. hit. The chase of tile

FF 2

