OSTIA. 503 OSTIA.

ft Tie, whkh to* assumed the name of Fossa

uau,ut is undoubtedly the same which still

•lau ladtr lie same of Fiumicino, and forma the

/:! arra 0/ tin Tiber, from which it separates

cmi 1 six tod a half above the site of Ostia.

[ti or* port thus constructed soon gave rise to

ii prtb if 1 WW town around it, whicli was

rmllT luorn by the name of PoRTf8 Ostiknsis,

nxtan alto Portus Urbis or Portus Romae, but

m (mfwntlt, at least in later times, simply

roxtn. It seems to have been designed more por-

L-iiri; far the importation of corn for the supply

il i» capital, an object of which the importance

lanvsa kk more and more, as the population of

Ia< aauaaed to increase, while it became more

aWatriy dependent upon foreign produce. The

*?ant cutrict on the right bank of the Tiber  
■» warned cot among a body of colouists before

fciaatof Trajsn (IJi.C ■ p. 222); and a new

k / rad fu constructed along tlie right bank of

la Tiber from Borne to the Dew port, whicl) ob-

fcifcd lie name./ Via Portuensis. In the reign of

(With* the cily of Portns was erected into an

<r"H>i nt (Anaatas. Vit. Sileatr. 34); and the

to ijiperor surrounded it with strong walls and

<i« are still in considerable part extant.

Manvbue Ostia itself was far from sinking into

r*' aVpated notiies of it during the earher

fa <f the Buman Empire show it to hare been

■ ■ iauuaiag and populous city, and successive

ywimeeorred in improving it and adorning it

• jUiit boiahnga. It was particularly indebted

jtis o»of Hadrian (Gruter, Inter, p. 249. 7)

U itftmum Sevrroa, numerous inscriptions in

Mr of wbom have been discovered among its

^ (Kiev, Dimtormi, toI. B. pp. 434, 468.)

•*na. aar\ are are told, adorned it with a Forum,

P* tore baa name, and which was decorated by

I Wan Tacitus with 100 columns of Kumidic

»* (Vopjte. Amrtl. 45; Tac 10.) The exist-

j'Baoa confirm the inference which we should

► rnaa theae accounts, and show that Ostia must

to be a flourishing town till towards

of tiie Roman Empire, and fur superior in

and apkndour of its public buildings to

^l^oanajr ttfwn of Portus. But the security

latter place, which was well fortified, while

*» *bUly unprotected by walls (Procop.  
MX n.u.-t have cuntrihuted greatly to the

w* Porttu; and the artificial port seems to

ffied an increasing preference over the

aath uf the Tiber. Kutilius says that in

(ahatt •. d. 414) the left ami, or main

<f the river, was so obstructed with sand as

deserted (/(nt. L 181); but this would

"»k exaggerated statement, as Procopius

1 a oratury later describes them as both

(Procop. Le.y. Ostia was, however, in

*hnay in a state of great decay, and the  
«* lad man theace to Rome (the Via Os-

') *af setlected and abandoned, while the Via

a» the other side of the Tiber was still

<f aaauderable traffic. The importance of

ere developed when Rome itself

*tfmd to the attacks of hostile barliarians.  
Aaaric, king of the Goths, made himself

prfat pvt. and with it of the stores of com

■J" of the capital, which compelled the

P* "p'slatt on the terms that he chose to

(Z—a vi. 6); and again during the wars

P*»»t«i Vitigee (in 537) the Gotliic king,

by making himself master of Portus, was able to

reduce his adversary to severe distress (Procop.

B. G. i. 26, &c.). The decline of Ostia continued

throughout the earlier part of the middle ages; in

827 it is described as altogether in ruins, and the

continued incursions of the Saracens throughout that

century seem to have completed its desolation.

But meanwhile the artificial ports of Claudius

and Trajan were beginning in their turn to suffer

from the deposit of sand which is constantly going

on along these shores; and no attempt being made

in these ages of confusion and disorder to arrest the

progress of the evil, they were both gradually filled

up so as to be rendered altogether useless. In the

10th century, the port of Trajan was already reduced

to a mere lake or pool, altogether cut off from the

sea, and only communicating by a ditch with the

Tiber. (Ughelli, Italia Sacra, vol. i. p. 134.) The

consequence was that for a tune the trade was again

forced to have recourse to the left arm of the river;

and the modern Ostia, where a castle or fort had

been founded by Pope Gregory IV., a little above

the ruins of the ancient city, became again for a

period of some centuries the landing-place of tra­

vellers and the port of Rome. It was not till 1612

that Pope Paul V. once more caused the canal of

Trajan to be restored and cleared out, and continued

to the present line of sea-coast, where a small port

called Fiumicino was constructed; and from this

time the whole traffic carried on by the Tiber with

Rome (which is however but inconsiderable) has

been confined to this ami of the river. The maiu

channel, on the other hand, having been completely

neglected, has become so obstructed with sand near

the mouth as to be wholly impracticable.

The modern village of Ottia is a very poor place,

with the ruins of an old castle, but retains little more

than 50 permanent inhabitants, who are principally

employed in the neighbouring salt-works. Its climate

in summer is extremely unhealthy. The ruins of

the ancient city begin about half a mile below il,

and extend along the left bank of the Tiber for a

space of near a mile and a half in length, and a mile

in breadth. Though extensive, they are for the most

part in a very dilapidated and imperfect state, so as

to have little or no interest as architectural monu­

ments; but among them may be distinctly traced

the remains of a theatre, a temple of the Corinthian

order, the forum, with several of the public buildings

that surrounded it; and near the Torre Boracciana,

close to the Tiber, are the ruins of buildings that

appear to indicate this as the site of the actual port

or emporium of Ostia in the imperial period. The

great number and beauty of the statues and other

works of art, which have been brought to light by

the excavations carried on ut successive periods on

the site of Ostia, are calculated to give a high notion

of the opulence and prosperity of the ancient city.

The ruins of Portus, which are also very consi­

derable, are of an entirely different character from

those of Ostia. They are found on the right bank

of the Tiber, about 2 miles from the present line of

sea-coast at Fiumicino, and are still known as Porto;

while the inner basin of Trajan, the hexagonal form

of which may be distinctly traced, though it is in

great part filled with sand, is still popularly known

by the name of II Trajtmo. The quays of solid

masonry that surrounded it are still well preserved;

while extensive, though shapeless, masses of ruins

adjoining it appear to have been those of the inago-

attached to the port. The

K K 4

