SABINL 865 SABINt.

*Hprjpotni attempt to identify Sabbaths with Ma­  
il* (if are2>). but the proofs of their identity are

satisfactory; and it may even bo questioned

irthtr Sibbatha be nut an elongated form of Saba,

cmmon appellation for cities in Arabia Felix.

V KaCaraFov of Strabo (xvi. p. 768) is sup-

wl by liu translator Grogkurd (vol. iii. p. 287)

* an error for ZaSoravoy. and the latter to be  
fan of Sabbatha. [See Maui ABA. Vol. II. p.

•I [W. B. !>.]

SABI'Nl (laSTeoi). a people of Central Italy,

»iahabited the rugged mountain country on the

. V the central chain of the Apennines, from the

irrn of the Xar and Velinus to the neighbourhood

lint'-, and from thence southward!) as far as the

W «nd the Anio. They were bounded on the N.

i W. by the Umbrians and Etruscans, on the NE.

fVnram, from which they were separated by the

it ridge uf the Apennines; on the E. by the

v r... the Marsi and Aequiculi, and on the S. by

Sam. Their country thus formed a narrow strip,

•wi.iij about 85 miles in length from the lofty

■y,-'.( the Apennines above Nursia, in which the

r tales it* rUe (now called the Montidelta Sibilla),

:ie jir.ction of the Tiber and Anio, within a few

at of Ran*. The southern limit of the Sabines

I. !■.:>« ever, undergone many changes; in Pliny's

• i'. was fixed as above stated, the Anio being

<nHy received as the boundary between them

i-atiam; hence Pliny reckons Fidenae and No-

"t:im Sabine cities, though there is good ground

twinning them both in earlier times to the

am. and Ptolemy again includes them both in

sua. Strabo, on the other hand, describes the

i» territory as extending at far at Nomentum,

he probably means to include the latter

; wkUe Eretum, which was only about 3 miles

i Konaratum, seems to have been universally

aderM as a Sabine city. (Strab. v. p. 228; Plin.

: ". 9. 12. s. 17; Ptol. iii. 1. § 62.) In like

a*r Puny includes the important city of Tibur

nr the Sabines, though it was certainly coin-

tf reckoned a Latin city, and never appears in

•tri; ha-tory of Koine in connection with the

• •-i- The fact appears to be, that the frontier

—n the Sabines and Latins was in early times

(amir fluctuating, as the Sabines on the one

"*<re pressing down from the N.,*and on the

r vere driven hack in their turn by the arms of

Latins. But on the division of

by Augustus, the Anio was esta-

»: »• the boundary of the First Region, and for

:>iw>n was considered by Pliny as the limit

u-.»em the Latins and Sabines. (Plin. I c.)

rmarkahle that no name for the country is

- tt am-ient writers, standing in the same re-

• to that of the people which Samnium does to

son, Latium to Latini, Sec.: it is called only

> .and of the Sabines " (Sabinorum ager, or Sa-

i arer. Lit. L 36. ii. 16, tec; Tac Hist. iii. 78),

t>»tn writer* would say" in Sabinis versari, in

• praficisci." Ac The Greeks indeed used r\

rv ! ir t be name of the country (Strab. v. pp.219,

*r-; Stepo. Byz. ». e.), which is called to the  
M day by t lie Human peasantry ha Sabina, but we

i tz.i any currespofiding form in Latin authors.

Ii saxaeoc anthers agree in representing the

'■ u one uf the moat ancient races of Italy,

j -vtitutingoneof the elements of the Koman

» »: the same time that they were the pro-

'<f titc far more numerous races which had

spread themselves to the E. and S., under the names

of Picentes, Peligni, and Samnites, the last of whom

had in their turn become the parents of the Frentani,

the Lucanians, Apulians and Bruttians. The minor

tribes of the Marsi, Marrucini and Vestini, were also

in all probability of Sabine origin, though we have

no distinct testimony to this effect [Maiisi]. These

various races are often comprehended by modem

writers nnder the general name of Sabellian, which

is convenient as an ethnic designation; but there is

no ancient authority for this use of the word, which

was first introduced by Niebuhr (vol. i. p. 91). Pliny

indeed in one passage says that the Samnites were

also railed Sabelli (Plin. iii. 12. s. 17), and this is

confirmed by Strabo (v. p. 250). Sabellus is found

also in Livy and other Latin writers, as an adjective

form for Snmnite, though never for the name of the

nation (Liv. viii. 1, x. 19); but it is frequently also

used, especially by the poets, simply as nn equivalent

for the adjective Sabine. (Virg. G. ii. 167, Aen.

vii. 665; Hor. Carm. iii. 6. 37; Juv. iii. 169.)

But notwithstanding the important position of the

Sabines in regard to the early history and ethno­

graphy of Italy, we have very little information as

to their own origin or affinities. Strabo calls them

a very ancient race and autochthons (v. p. 228),

which may be understood as meaning that there

was no account of their immigration or origin which

he considered worthy of credit. He distinctly rejects

as a fiction the notion that they or tueir Samnite

descendants were of Laconian origin (/4. p. 250);

an idea which was very probably suggested only by

fancied resemblances in their manners and institu­

tions to those of Sparta (Dionys. ii. 49). But this

notion, though not countenanced by any historian of

authority, was taken up by the Human poets, who

frequently allude to the Lacedaemonian descent of

the Sabines (Ovid. Fait. i. 260, iii. 230; Sil. Ital.

ii. 8, viii. 412, Sc.), and adopted also by some prose

writers (Plut. Horn. 16; Hygin. ap. Serr. ad A en.

viii. 638). A much more important statement is

that preserved to us by Dionysius on the authority

of Zenodotus of Troezen, which represents the Sabines

as an offshoot of the Umbrian race (Dionys. ii. 49).

The authority of Zenodotus is indeed in itself not

worth much, and his statement as rejiorted to us is

somewhat confused; but many analogies would lead

us to the same conclusion, that the Sabines and

Umbrians were closely cognate races, and branches

of the same original stock. We learn from the

Eugubine tables that Sancus, the tutelary divinity of

the Sabine nation, was an object of especial worship

with the Umbrians also; the same documents prove

that various other points of the Sabine religion,

which are spoken of as peculiar to that nation,

were in fact common to the Umbrians also (Klenze,

PkUol. Abkandl. p. 80). Unfortunately the Sabine

language, which would have thrown much light upon

the subject, is totally lost; not a single inscription

has been preserved to us; but even the few words

recorded by ancient writers, though many of them,

as would naturally be the case in such a selection,

words peculiar to the Sabines, yet are abundantly

sufficient to show that there could be no essential

difference between the language of the Sabines and

their neighbours, the Umbrians on the one side, and

the Oscans on the other (Klenze, /. c.; Donaldson,

Varronianut. p. 8). The general similarity between

their dialect and that of the Oscan was probably the

cause that they adopted with facility in the more

southern regions of Ilnlv, which they had conquered,

3 K.

