816 ROMA. ROMA.

of gladiatorial combats at Hume took place on the

Forum Boarium, at the funeral of the father of

Marcus and Decimal Brutus, u. c. 264. (VaL

Max. ii. 4. § 7.)

The valley between the Palatine and Aventine,

occupied by the Circus Maximus was, as we have

bad occasion to mention in the former part of this

article, in earlier times called Vallis Mcrcia, from

an altar of the Dea MuTCM, or Venus, which stood

there. He who mounts the enormous mam of ruins

which marks the site of the imperial palace on the

S. side of the Palatine hill may still trace the extent

and configuration of the circus, the area of which is

occupied by kitchen gardens, whilst a gas manufac­

tory stands on the site of the carceres. The de­

scription of the circus itself will be reserved for a

separata section devoted to objects of the same

description, and we shall here only treat of the

different monuments contained in it as a Region or

district. The whole length of the circus was

stadia, or nearly half a mile, the circular end being

near the Septtzonium, and the carceres or starting

place nearly uuder the church of S. Anastitsui, where

the circus adjoined the Forum Boariuin. Its prox­

imity to the latter is shown by the circumstance that

the Maxima Ara Hercults before alluded to is some­

times mentioned as being at the entrance of the Circus

Maximus, and sometimes as on the Forum Boarium

(*' Ingens ara Herculis (xis januas Circi Maximi"

Serv. ad Am. viii. 271; cf. Dionys. i. 40; Ovid, Fast.

i. 581; Liv. i. 7, &c.) The large TttfPLB ok Hkr-

CULEI must undoubtedly have been close to this

altar, but on the Forum Boarium.

The Vallis Murcia contained several old and

famous temples and altars, some of which were in­

cluded in the circus itself. Such was the case

with the altar or SACELLUM of Mum ia herself

(*' Intumus Circus ad Murcim vocatur — ibi sacelluin

etiam nunc Murteae Veneris," Varr. L. L. v. § 154,

Mull.); but its exact site cannot be determined.

CoMSUI had also a subterranean altar in the circus,

which was opened during the games and closed at

other times. It is described by Tertullian as being

"ad primas metas," and therefore probably at a dis­

tance of about one-third of the whole length of the

circus from the carceres, and near the middle of the S.

sideof the Palatine kill. (Tart. de$pect.5; \\tt.L.L.

vi. § 20, HUH.; Tac Ann. xii. 24; Hut. Rom. 14.)

But the chief temple on the circus was the Tkmple

of THK Si n, to which deity it was principally conse­

crated (''Circus Soli principaliterconsecratur: cujus

acdea medio spatio et effigies de fastigio aedis

tmicat," Tert. Spect 8). Tacitus mentions the same

ancient temple as being "apud Circum" {Ann. xv.

74); and from a comparison of these passages we

may conclude that it stood in the middle of one of

its sides, and probably under the Aventine. The

Xotitia and Curiosnm mention it ambiguously in con­

junction with a TEMPLE OF Lrx.v, so that it might

possibly be inferred that both deities had a common

temple (" Templum Solis et Lunae," Reg. xi.). It

seems, however, more probable that there were two

distinct temples, as we frequently find them men­

tioned separately in authors, but never in conjunction.

It is perhaps the same temple of Luna which we

liave already mentioned on the Aventine. in which

case it might have been situated on the declivity of

that hill facing the circus, and behind the temple

of BoL Luna, like Sol, was a Circensian deity,

both performing their appointed circuits in qua­

drigae. (Job. Ljdut, de Mais. i. 12; Tert. Spcct.

9; Cass. Var.'m. 51.) The situation of "he!

of Mkrciry, mentioned next to the two |

ones in the Curiosum, may be determined i

accuracy, if we may believe an account i

Xaidiui (Rom. Ant lib. vii. c. 3) on uSe i

of a certain Francesco Passeri, r^pectisf, t

covery of the remains of a small temple d tan*

in a vineyard between the Circus!

Aventine. The remains were those of t Irfthl

style temple, which was identified as tbal of I

from an altar having the caduonu sod I

sculptured on it. The temple is repre*ala4<

medal of M. Aurelius, who appears to am I

it. The site agrees with that described bj(

{Fast. v. 669):—

"Templa tibi posuere patres spcctunaC

Idibus: ex illo est haec tibi festa tit*-*

A comparison of this passage with Lrrv,'

Mercurii dedicata est Idibus Mi-" (ii.

that the same ancient sanctuary is i

dedication of which caused a dispute 1

consuls, b. c. 495 (lb. c 27). We next I

tioned in the Xotitia an Akues Matku I

another of Jo vis Arboratukis, forwhidn

probably read "Liberatoris." The - J

was one of the Circensian divinities, fieri

was exhibited on the spina (Tert. Spect

would appear that she had also

vicinity. Of a temple of Jupiter Lib-

nothing further, though Jove was

shipped at Home under that name (T«

64, xvi. 35), and games celebrated in hail

the month of October. (CalcmL Vmdakq^

Reg. p. 192.)

Next to these an A t r>i - Drrrs Pat

in the Xvttiia, but does not appear is the ^

Some writers would identify lh*pater 1

masts, quasi Sumuius Maniam( v. unir.)

Mart. Capell. ii. 161); but there

fere nee of opinion respecting this old

and even the Romans themselves could 1

cisely who he was. Thus Ovid (Aoat til

a Heddita, quisquis is est, Summano I

Tunc cum Romania, Pyrrhe, 1

The temple to him here alluded to

certainly near the Circus Maxim as,

mentions some annual sacrifices of «

u inter aedem Juventatis et

4); and that the Tkmi-le or Jet

the Circus Slaximus we learn from

tatis acdetn in Circo Maximo C. Lk

triumvir dedicavit" (xxxvii. 36; c£

XII. Kat. JuL: M Summano ad Circ 1

temple of Summanus, therefore, maat

dedicated during the war with Prrrfatta, j

Juventas in B. c. 192.

Close to the \V. extremity of the

towering as it were over the carries I

built apparently on the slope of the Ac

• - !•. i&pvfxtvos Tots aC'*«-T« ^. Dionys. vi. 1

famous Temple of Cere.% dedicated i

and Lihkra. Thus Tacitus, relating f

of the temple by Tiberias, it having

by Augustus, says: "Libero, Liberaoqvt) i

juxta Circum Maximum, quam A.'

tator voverat (dedicavit)" (.4im. ii. 49^

tioned by other writers as ■ ad Cii

whence Carina's identification of it witft 1

of S. Maria in Cosmcdm seems imp

