SYRIA. 1071 SYRIA.

i Mir Ayas, and again in larger masses at

..Uk distance from the KE. side of the chain.

;^wanl of Beilan the chain becomes remarkable

wrrated sides and numerous summits, of

:he Akhma Tayh shows about fifteen between

\at and the valley of the Orontes." The sharp

JcUlHhoms terminates in the rugged and ser­

ais of Cc^wAVmnztr, which overhangs the sea,

urates the Gulf of Jskanderun from the Bay

xxk. South of this is Jebcl Musa, the Mons

i classic writers, a limestone offset from

Rhomt, and itself imperfectly connected with

lier classical mount, Casius, by the lower

of Jebel Sim6n. A little to the south of

•bouchure of the Orontes, Mount Casius

• an elevation of 5699 feet, composed of

mateoos limestone, on the skirts of which,

the birch and larch woods, are still to be

? ruins of the temple, said to have been con-

~i by Cronus or Ham (Ammianns Marccll.

14), while the upper part of its cone is entirely

d rock, justifying its native modern name

*UAkra (the bald mountain). From this  
'fie mountain chain continues southward, at a

■imvr elevation, and receding further from the

throws oat its roots both east and west,

's th« Orontes on the one aide and the Medi-

on the other. This range has the general

of Jebel Anzarieh from the tribe that in*

it. but is distinguished in its various parts

inches by local names, chiefly derived from

wns and villages on its sides or base. The

»rn termination of this range must be the in*

uii* plains which Pliny places between Libanus

\i L'ylus (" interjacentes cam pi r), on the north

former. (PUn. v. 20.) These plains Shaw

in the Jetme (fruitful), as tho Arabs call

tparatively level tract, which "commences a

•oath of Maguzzel, and ends at Sumrah, ex-

itself all the way from the sea to the east-

s->metimes five, sometimes biz or seven leagues,

i ia terminated by a long chain of mountains.

MYm to be the Mons Bargylus of Pliny."

ast be identifies with Simyra,— which Pliny

% in C«ele>yria at tho northern extremity of

.t Libanus,—but remarks that, as Sumrah lies

Ji-une, 2 leagues distant from that mountain,

circumstance will better fall in with Area,

'Mount Libanus is remarkably broken off and

btinned. (Shaw, Travels in Syria, pp. 268,

4U> «d.) We here reach the confines of Phoe-

1o which a separate article has been devoted,

*o to Mount Lebanon, which continues thecoast-  
■ * The southern extremity of Syria.

* urlesyria, and the valley of the Orontes. —  
•j^b the name of Coelesyria (Hollow Syria)

■retimes extended so as to include even the

4.4 the Mediterranean—as in the passage above

fr»*n Pliny—from Scleucis to Egypt and Arabia

mt infra"), and especially the prolongation of

, -citiwrn valley along the crevass of the Jordan

- X*adSea(f«e Reland, Palaestina, pp. 103,  
607, 774), yet, according to Strabo, the name

: I v describes the valley between Libanus and

i: *nus (xvi. 2. § 21), now known among the

as El-Buk&'a (tiie deep plain). "Under

.mjzu* is embraced the valley between Lebanon

A-nti-Lebanon, from Zahleh southward; in-

\g the villages on the declivities of both moun-

er rather at their foot: for the eastern dc-

r of Lebanon is so steep as to have very few

villages much above its base; and the western side

of Anti-Lebanon is not more inhabited. Between

Zahleh and its suburb, Mu'allahah, a stream called

El-Burdony descends from Lebanon and runs into

the plain to join the Litany. The latter river di­

vides the Buhaa from north to south ; and at its

southern end passes out through a narrow gorge,

between precipices in some places of great height,

and finally enters the sea north of Sur, where it is

called Kasimeyeh* [Leoktks]. To the south of

the Buhi a is the Merj 'Ayvn {meadow of the

springs), " between Beldd Beshdrah and Wddy-et-

Teim, on the left of the Lttdny. Here Lebanon and

Anti-Lebanon come together, but in such a manner

that this district may be said to separate rather

than to unite them. It consists of a beautiful fertile

plain, surrounded by hills, in some parts high, but

almost every where arable, until you begin to descend

towards the Litany. The mountains farther south

are much more properly a continuation of Lebanon

than of Anti-Lebanon." (Dr. Eli Smith, in Biblical

Researches, vol. hi. Appendix B. pp. 136, 140.)

This then is the proper termination to the south of

Coele.syria. The Merj 'Ayun terminates in the

Erd-el-Huleh, which is traversed by the several tri­

butaries of the Jordan, and extends as far south as

the Bahr-el-IIuleh. [Samachoniti8 Lacus; Pa-

lae-stina, pp. 521, 522.]

To return now to the watershed. Baalbek gives

its name to tho remainder of the Bukaa, from the

village of Zahleh northward (Smith, ul sup. p. 143),

in which direction, as has been stated, the re­

motest sources of the Orontes are found, not far

from Baalbek, which lies in the plain nearer to the

range of Antilibanus than to Lebanon. [Okontks;

Hkuopoi.is.] The copious fountain of Latnceh

is about 10 miles north-east of Baalbek; and this

village gives its name to the stream which runs for

J 2 miles through a rocky desert, until it falls into

the basin of a much larger stream at the village of

Er-Ras or 'Ain Zerka, where is the proper source

of the Orontes, now El-Azi. The body of water

now " becomes at least threefold greater than before,

and continues in its rugged chasm generally in a

north-easterly course for a considerable distance,

until it passes near Ribleh" then runs north through

the valley of Horns, having been fed on its way by

numerous streams from the slopes of Lebanon and

Antilibanus, draining the slopes of Jebel Anzerieh,

and forming as it approaches Horns the BaJir-tl-

Kadts. which is 6 miles long by about 2 wide.

(Chesney, ut sup. p. 394; Robinson, Journal of the

R. G. S. vol. xxiv. p. 32.) Emerging from the lake,

it waters the gardens of Horns about a mile and a

half to the nest of the town, then running north to

Er-Rustan, where is a bridge of ten arches, it is

turned from its direct cour.Mj by Jebel A rbdyn on

its left bank, round the mots of which it sweeps

almost in a semicircle, and enters Hamah, where it

is crossed by a bridge of thirteen arches. It now

continues its course north-west for about 15 miles

to Kaluat-es-Sejar (Larissa), then due wc>t for 8

miles, when it turns duo north, and so continues to

the Jisr Hadid mentioned below. About 20 miles

below Larissa it passes KaU'tat-em-Medaik (Apa-

meia) on its right bank, di.ttant about 2 miles; a

little to the north of which it receives an affluent

from the small lake Et-Taka, remarkable for its

abundance of black-fish and carp (Burckliardt, Syria,

p. 143; Chcsney, p. 395), then, running through

Wwly-el- Ghab, enters the Birlxt-el-Hoicosh, 8 miles

