TLA. 31 ILERGETES

perfect state of our knowledge of the inscriptions in

question, it is somewhat hazardous to draw from

tbem positive conclusions as to proper names; bnt it

■terns that we may fairly infer the mention of several

small towns or communities in the immediate neigh­

bourhood of Iguvium. These were, however, in all

probability not independent communities, but pagi,

or village* dependent upon Iguvium itself. Of this

description were: Akerunia or Acerrouia (probably

answering to the Latin Aqnilonia), CLavernia (in

Lat, Clavenna), Curia or Cureia, Casilum, Juviscum,

Museia, Pierium ( ?), Tarsina, and Trebla or Trepla.

The last of these evidently corresponds to the Latin

name Trebia or Trebula, and may refer to the Um-

brian town of that name: the Cureiati of the inscrip­

tion are evidently the same with the Curiates of

Pliny, mentioned by him among the extinct com­

munities of Umbria (Plin. iii. 14. s. 19); while the

names of Museia and Casilum are said to be still

retained by two villages called Museia and Canto in

the immediate neighbourhood of Gubbio. Chiaserna,

another neighbouring village, is perhaps the Clavcrna

of the Tables.

The coins of Iguvium, which are of bronze, and of

large size (so that tbey must be anterior to the re­

duction of the Italian As), have the legend iky vim,

which is probably the original form of the name, and

is found in the Tables, though we here meet also

with the softened and probably later form " Ijovina,"

or " Iiovina." [E. H. B.]

ILA, in Scotland, mentioned by Ptolemy (ii. 3.

§ 5) as the first river sooth of the Berubium Pro-

montorium = Firth of Dornoch. [R. G. L.]

ILARAU'GATAE. [Hispania; Ileroetks.]

ILARCUTUS. [Carpetasi.]

1LAKGUS, a river of Kbaetia Secunda, flowing

from west to east, and emptying itself into the

Danube. (Pedo Albinov. Eleg. ad Liv. 386, where

the common reading is Itargus; others read Isargus,

and regard it as the same as the river Atagis

CAva-yu) mentioned by Strabo, iv. p. 207, with

Groakurd's note, vol. i. p. 356.) It would, however,

appear that llargus and Isargus were two different

rivers, since in later writers we find, with a slight

change, a river Ililara ( Vita S. Magm. 18), answer­

ing to the modem flltr, and another, Ysarche (Act.

S. Cassiani, ap, Rescb. Anmai. Sabion. iv. 7), the

modern Eisach, which flows in a southern direction,

and emptier itself into the Athesis. [L. S.]

ILATTIA (lAarrla, Polyb. ap. Steph. B. t. v.),

a town of Crete, which is probably the same as the

Eijltcs of Pliny (iv. 12). Some editions read

C'bUos, incorrectly classed by him among the inland

towns. (Hock. Kreta, vol. i. p. 432.) [E. B. J.]

ILDUM. [Edetahi.]

11.1.1. [Hekmione.]

ILEOSCA. [Osca.]

ILEBCAONES (lAfpnforcs, Ptol. ii. 6. §§ 16,

64; liercaonenses, Liv. xxii. 21; Ulnrgavonenses,

Caes. B. C. \. 60: in this, as in so many other

Spanish names, the c and g are interchangeable), a

pwpfe of Hispania Tarracpnensis, occupying that

portion of the sea-coast of Edktania which lay

between the rivers Uddba and Iberus. Their

exact boundaries appear to have been a little to the

N. of each of tbese rivers. They possessed the town

of Dertosa (Tortosa), on the left bank of the Iberus,

sad it was their chief city. [Dertosa.] Their

other towns, according to Ptolemy, were: — Adeba

('Mttx: Ampotta f), Tiariuua (TiapiooAlo:

Teari Julienses, ap. Plin. iii. 3. s. 4: Trayguera),

BiscAECls (BttTKapryis; Biscargitani civ. Rom.,

Plin.: Berrtu), Sigarra (Ziyajiia: Segarra,

Marra, Hup. ii. 8), Carthago Vetus (KapXTjowK

7raAaia: Carta Vieja, Marea, ibid.), and Theava

(0fai'»a). Ukert also assigns to them, on the N. of

the Iberus, Traja Capita, Oleasttbum, Tarraco,

and other places, which seem clearly to have belonged

to the Cosbtaxi. The name of their country,

Ilercavonia, occurs on the coins of their city

Ibera. [P. S.]

ILERDA Cl\ipSa. and rarely EiAf'o&a; Hilerda,

Auson. EpisU xxv. 59: Eth. 'lKepSirat, llerdenses:

Lerida), the chief city of the Ilergktes, in His­

pania Tarraconensis, is a place of considerable im­

portance, historically as well as geographically. It

stood upon an eminence, on the right (W.) bank of

the river Sicoris (Segre), the principal tributary of

the Ebro, and some distance above its confluence

with the Ctnoa (Cinca); thus commanding the

country between those rivers, as well as the great

road from Tarraco to the NW. of Spain, which here

crossed the Sicoris. (Itin. Ant pp. 391, 452.)

Its situation (propter ipsius loci opporttmitatem,

Caes. B. C. i. 38) induced the legates of Pompey in

Spain to make it the key of their defence against

Caesar, in the first year of the Civil War (b. c. 49).

Afranius and Petreius threw themselves into the

place with five legions; and their siege by Caesar

himself, as narrated in his own words, forms one of

the most interesting passages of military history.

The resources exhibited by the great general, in a

contest where the formation of the district and the

very elements of nature seemed in leagne with his

enemies, have been compared to those displayed by

the great Dnke before Badajoz; but no epitome can

do justice to the campaign. It ended by the capitu­

lation of Afranius and Petreius, who were conquered

as much by Caesar's generosity as by his strategy.

(Caes. B. C. i. 38, et seq.; Flor. iv. 12; Appum,

B. C. ii. 42; Veil. Pat. ii. 42; Suet. Cats. 34;

Lucan, Pharsal. iv. 11, 144.) Under the empire,

Uerda was a very flourishing city, and a muni-

cipium. It had a fine stone bridge over the Sicoris,

on the foundations of which the existing bridge

is built. In the time of AuBonius the city hud

fallen into decay; but it rose again into importance

in the middle ages. (Strab. iii. p. 161; Horat.

Epitt. i. 20. 13; coins, ap. Florez, Med. ii. pp.451,

646, iii. p. 73; Mionnet, vol. i. p. 44, Snppl. vol. i.

p. 89; Sestini, pp. 161, 166; Eckhel, vol. i. p.

51.) [P. S.]

COIX OF ILERDA.

ILERGE'TES CYKifrrrtfrn, Ptol. ii. 6. § 68; Liv.

xxi. 23, 61, xxii. 22; Plin. iii.3. s. 4; "IKoupy^Tit,

Polyb. iii. 35) or ILE'RGETAE CWtpyiriu, Strab.

iii. p. 161: doubtless the'iAapaoyaVai of Hecataeus,

077. Stepb. B. s. v.), a people of Hispania Tarraco.

nensis, extending on the N. of the Iberus (Ebro)

from the river Gallicus (Gallego) to both banks of

the Sicoris (JSegre), and as far E. as the Rubri­

cate (Llobregat); and having for neighbours the

