311 MEGARA. MKGARA.

On the ascent to the citadel Alcathne, Pausanias

saw, on the right hand, the sepulchre of Megareus,

and near it the hearth of the gods called Prodomeis,

to whom Alcathous sacrificed when he was going to

build the walls. Here was the stone upon which

Apollo laid his lyre, when he was assisting Alca­

thous, and which, on being struck, returned a sound

like that of a harp. (Coinp. Thcogn. 771 ; Ov.

ilet. viii. 14.) Beyond was the council-house

(flouXfvr^piov) of the Megarians, formerly the se­

pulchre of Timalcus ; and on the summit of the

Acropolis was a temple of Athena, containing a

statue of the goddess, entirely gilded, with the ex­

ception of the face, hands, and feet, which were of

ivory. Here, also, were temples of Atbena Nice,

or Victory, and Aeantis. The temple of Apollo

was originally of brick, but had been rebuilt of white

marble by Hadrian. Here, also, was a temple of

DcnieterThesinophorus, in descending from which oc­

curred the tomb of Callipolis, daughter of Alcathous.

On the road leading to the Prytaneiuni the tra­

veller passed the heroum of Ino, the heroum of

Iphigeneia, and a temple of Artemis said to have

been erected by Agamemnon. In the l'rytaneium

were tombs of Menippus, son of Megareus, and

Kchepolis, son of Alcathous ; near which was a stone

called Anaclethra, because here Demeter sat down

and called her daughter. Pausanias next mentions

the sepulchres of those Megarians who had fallen in

battle against the Persians, and the Aesymnium, so

named from its founder, which contained a monu­

ment of the heroes of Megara. There were .several

sepulchral monuments on the way from the Ae­

symnium to the heroum of Alcathous, in which the

public records were preserved in the time of Pau­

sanias. Beyond was the Dionysium or temple of

Dionysus; close to which was the temple of Aphro­

dite, containing several statues by Praxiteles. Near

the latter was a temple of Fortune, with an image

of the goddess by Praxiteles. A neighbouring

temple contained statues of the Muses, and a Jupiter

in brass, by Lysippus.

In the Agora stood the tombs of Cornelius and of

the athlete Orsippus, the former of which was orna­

mented by some of the most ancient specimens of

sculpture which Pausanias had seen in Greece, On

descending from the Agora by the street called

Straight, there stood, a little to the right, the temple

of Apollo Prostaterius, with a statue of the god of

great merit, as well as other statues by Praxiteles.

In the ancient gymnasium, near the gates called

Nymphadc*. was a pyramidal stone, called by the na­

tives Apollo Carinus, and a temple of the Eileithyiae.

On the road to the port of Nisaea was a temple of

Demeter Maluphorus. The Acroi«>lis of Nisaea still

remained ; on descending from the Acropolis there

was the tomb of I.clex on the sea-side. Near Nisaea

was a small island, called Minoa, where the Meet of the

Cretans was moored during the war against Nisus.

Megara still retains its ancient name, but it is a

miserable place. It occupies only the western of the

two ancient citadels, and as this was probably Alca-

thoe, the town on the summit is on the site of the

temple of Athena. There are hardly any remains of

antiquity at Mcgara. On the eastern acropolis thi-re

are a few remains of the ancient walls. None of the

numerous temples mentioned by Pausanias can be

identified; and only one of them is marked by the

frusta of some Ionic columns. The magnificent

aqueduct of Thcagenes has disappeared; and some

imperfect foundations and a large fountain on the

northern side of the town are the only remains of tka

celebrated fountain of the Sithnide nymph*.

Of the Long Walls, uniting Megara with XUaea, v»

have already spoken. They are noticed by Aristophaies

under the name of to. Mtyaputa. omi\n (l^mtr.

1172). They were destroyed by the Mrganans

themselves, as we have already seen, in the rirbtb

year of the Peloponnesian War, but they were subse­

quently restored by Phocion. Slrmbo speaks <i tbsm

as if they still existed in his time (ix. p. 391). bot

they would seem to have fallen to ruin before that rf

Pausanias, as he makes no mention of them. Ac­

cording to Thucydides (iv. 66) they were 8 stadia

in length, but according to Strabo (i c) 18 stadia.

The position of Nisaea and Minoa has given rise

to much dispute, as the localities described by

Thucydides do not agree with the present features

of the coast. The subject has been briefly dtsruwd

by Colonel Leake (Northern Gretct, vol. ii. p. 401),

and more fully by Dr. Arnold (T/iucyd. ml. ii.

p. 393) and Lient. Spratt. {].<milon Gtograpkiail

Journal, vol. viii. p. 205.) Thucydides represent*

Minoa as an island close to Nisaea, and united to the

latter by a bridge over a morass. On Mima tte

Megarians had built a fortress (Thuc. iii. 51 \

Strabo (ix. p. 39) calls Minoa a promontory (&ras).

He says that, " after the Scironian rocks, we cume to

the promontory Minoa, forming the harbour of

Nisaea." Pausanias (i. 44. § 3), however, »£r*e»

with Thucydides in calling it an island ; but it

may be observed that the expiession of Strabo (&rsa)

is not inconsistent with its being an island, as stated

by Thucydides and Pausanias. The ditii.-ulty in

determining the site of Minoa and Nisaea arivs

from the fact, that there is at present no island off

the coast which can be identified with Minoa. At

the distance of nearly a m le and a half from Me­

gara there is a small rocky peninsula, and further

off two islands, the inner one of which affords

shelter to a few of the small class of coasters.

Hence it has been supposed that the inner island

was Minoa, as it forms the port of the Megarians of

the present day. But this island is distant from th*

promontory about 200 yards, with 7 fathoms of

water between them ; consequently they could wvtt

have been connected by a bridge. It might, indeed,

bo argued, that the peninsula was once an island:

but this is disproved by the fact that its isthmus is

of equal height with its extremity. Moreover there

are no ancient remains, either on this island or the

peninsula.

Other writers, among whom are Colonel Leake and

Dr. Arnold,suppose the promontory of TiMn (see map.

No. 6), further to the east, at the entrance of the stra. t

of Salamis, to have been Minoa, since it may at one

time have been an island. Accordingly, the state­

ment of Strabo respecting the length of the Long

Walls, is preferred to that of Thucydides. But th s

promontory is nearly 3 miles in length, whirh is

larger than is implied in the description of Thucy­

dides (iii. 51), who speaks of it as fortified only by si

single fort. Moreover, Pausanias calls Minoa a s'mal

island. Lieutenant Spratt has offered a more probable

solutif n of the difficulty. He supposes Minoa to hv

a rocky hill, surmounted by a ruined fortress, and

standing on the margin of the sea south of Megara,

at the distance of little more than a get^rraphie

mile, thus agreeing with the 8 stadia of Thucy­

dides. "Tlutt this hit] was once a peniinula. appi-sn

evident from the dry beds of two rivers, which f«-s

cluoe to its base ; one on each aide. The eastern

