ROMA. ROMA. 729

IL, rcoGuai or the City nix TH2 Timk

or Stir, i - Tulul's.

Ve txn only pretend to give a probable account

the progiess of the city under tlie first five kings.

a» statements on the subject in ancient authors are

*»nrent, though the contradiction is often rather  
.uarast than real. In the course of his reign Rc-

uJas added to his original city on the Palatine, the

-lice hill, then called Sutumius, the Caeliun,  
. j-..<->! i; .tniuotulanus, and the Aveiitioe, li;it

: tu! distinguish the nature of these additions.

*yei«a (ii. 37) represent* the Capitoline and  
tnMae m enclosed by Romulus with a strong for-

T~»t»i consisting of a ditch and palisades, chiefly as

fur herdsmen and their flocks, and not

with a wall, like the i'alatine. Vet

at Trident from the account of the attack by tlx

! M on the Capitoline (Liv. i. 11) that it must

it been regularly fortified, and have had a gate.

B '~!aa had already marked it out as the arx or ci-

M of has future city; and when he had defeated the

r t.-uoaes and slain their king, he carried thither

i ini.e^stesl the first spolia opima at an oak-tree

a! sacred by the shepherds, but which now became

fJM of the temple of Jupiter Feretrius (lb. c. 10).

■ a Lvi telU us that this was the first temple

tra:«i at Bume, he probably means with the

ixk of those which were usually erected at the

i"ir^ of* every city. That the Capitoline was

rjtfi more important hill in the time of Romulus

.t tae Arentine and Caelian is also shown by the

: <4 kia opening upon it the asylum for slaves and

cures, m order to increase the population of his

Thai aaylum was situated somewhere in the

■ n t«'M eminences of the Capitoline,

ti» akc retained till a late period the name of

!>r Jaoa locum" (lb. c. 10; Dionys. ii. 15; Strab.

JO Pmt- Rom*. 9; Ov. Fast. iii. 431, &c).

[":» Capitoline hill, or Mons Satuniius, appears

• tj hare been a real addition to the Romulean

the Arentine seems to have remained

t fi» the time of Ancus Martius a mere rudely

Smc eaclramre for the protection of the shepherds,

-as etyrraologiea, all perhaps equally unaatis-  
ary, Lav* been invented for the name of Aven-

"ae legend derived it from an Alban king

aCad, who waul buried on the hill (Lir. i. 3;

r L. L. w. § 43. MD11.; Paul. Diac. p. 19, Mull.),

bar frjrn a descendant of Hercules, mentioned

""j-a (Jest. wii. 656). Servius in his coinmen-

v. tits | f- makes Aventinus a king of the

rrjmm, bwl avdds from Varro that the Arentine

aa^rjed by Komulu* to the Sabiues. who named

S- :]m Arens, one of tlieir rivers. This account

.- fxiad in the remains which wo possess of

>s vha, bowev er (i. e ), adds a few more ety-

ps ia that already given. One of them, taken

, Xarrinaa, derives the name of the hill from the

, (tics) that resorted thither from the Tiber, to

: V_---l also terms to allude (Am. riit. 233).

h.™ehf th;"fc« that it was so called "ab

. • ore^stLse. bt-in^ formerly separated from the

r kill* by a> marah or lake, it was necessary to

j t ob boata: whilst others derived the name

iirmmxa hofninum," because, having upon it

of [Havna. common to all the Latin people,

— s phacc of great resort. But these various

, -r— only prove that nothing certain was

r».

i. ferpooderance of authority tends to show that

the Caelian hill was also colonised in the time of

Romulus. Caelius Vibennus, or Carles Vibenna, an

Etruscan general who came to the assistance of Ro­

mulus against Tatius and the Sabines, had this hill

assigned to him and settled upon it with his army;

whence it derived its name of " Caelius," it having

been previously called Querquetulanus from its woods

of oak. (Varr. L. L. v. § 46, Miill.; Dionys. ii. 36;

Paul. Diac. p. 44, Miill.) The traditions respecting

the incorporation of this hill are, however, very va­

rious. Some authors relate that it was added by

Tullus Hostilius (Liv. i. 30; Eutrop. i. 4; Aur.

Vict Vir. 111. 4). others by Ancus Martius (Cic.

Rep. ii. 18; Strab. v. p. 234); whilst some, again,

place the arrival of Caeles as low down as the reij:n

of Tarquinitis Priscus. (Tac..inn. iv. 65; Festus,

p. 355, MUI1.) The last account probably arose

from some confusion between the arrival of the Tus­

cans under Romulns, and a subsequent one under

the Tuscan king Tarquinius. But the sacred books

relating to the Argive chapels established by Numa

mention the hill under the name of Caelius (Varr.

ib. § 47), and it therefore seems probable that the

arrival of Vibenna must be placed under Romulus.

This Tuscan settlement appears, however, not to have

been permanent. After the death of their leader a

portion of his followers incurred the suspicion of the

Romans, and were removed from the hill to a less

defensible position on the plain, apparently between

the Palatine and Capitoline, where they founded the

Vicus Tuscus; whilst the remainder were transferred

to the adjoining hill called Caeliulus (Varr. ib. §

46). Whence also Propertius:—

"Et tu, Roma, meis tribuisti pracmia Tuscis

Uude hodie vicus nomina Tuscus habet;

Tempore quo sociis venit Lyconiedius armis,

Atquo Sabina feri contudit arma Tati."—

(iv. 2. 49.)

Here the Tuscan general is named Lycomedius,

which seems to be derived from Lucumo, the name

given to him by Dionysins (ii. 42, 43), and which

was probably only an appellative for an Etruscan

prince. The hill having been vacated by this re­

moval of the Tuscans, was again colonised under a

subsequent king, which in some degree reconciles the

conflicting accounts ; but all we shall say further

about it at present is, that in the reign of Tiberius

an attempt was made to change its name again, and

to call it Mons Augustus, either because Tiberius

had laid out a great deal of money there in repairing

the damage occasioned by a fire, or from a decree of

the senate, which appointed that name to be used

because a statue of Tiberius had been saved from the

flames. (Tac. Ann. iv. 64; Suet. Tib. 48.) But

this name never came into common use.

Legend of Tarpeia.—Pvrta Janualit and Temple

of Janus.—The story of Tarjeia involves two or three

joints of topographical interest. It shows that the

Capitoline hill was regularly fortified, and had a gate.

The deed of Tarpeia, whether treacherous or patri­

otic, for there are two versions of her history, occa­

sioned a change in the name of the hill. It had

previously been called Mons Satumius, from Saturn,

to whom it was sacred (Fest. p. 322); and there

was a tradilion that some Eleans, who had obtained

their dismissal from the army of Hercules on his

return from his westernexpedition, had been attracted

to settle upon it by the resemblance of its name to

that of Kpiii'iof, a mountain of tlieir own country.

(Dionys. i. 34.) After the foundation of the Copilol

