.124 MEMPHIS. MELPIS.

liimrus (Plm. Hi. 5. 8. 10). It is now called the

Molpa. [K.H.B.]

MELPIS or MELFIS (o Mf'Airiy: Mel/a), a small

river of Latium, falling into the Litis (GarigHano),

about 4 miles below its junction with the Trerus

(.Sncrw). It crossed the Via Latina about 4 miles

from A-juintim, though Strabo erroneously speaks

of it as Jlncing by that city. It is a still greater

mistake that he calls it a great river (vorafibs

Hf-yan, Strab. v. p. 237), for it is in reality a very

inconsiderable stream: but the text of Strabo is, in

this jias^age, very corrupt, and perhaps the error

is not that of the author. The name appears in

the Tabula, under the corrupt form Melfcl, for

which we should probably read Ad Melpein. (Tab,

Peut.) [K.H. B.]

MELPUMta city of Cisalpine Gaul, of which the

only record preserved tons is that of its capture and

destruction by the combined forces of the Insubrians,

Boiaus, and Senones, which took place according to

Cornelius Nepos on the same day with the taking

of Veii by Camillus, n.c 396 (Corn. Nep. ap. Plin.

in. 17. s. 21). He calls it a very wealthy city

("opulentia praecipuum"), and it therefore seems to

have been one of the principal of the Etru>can set­

tlements in this part of Italy. All trace of it sub­

sequently disappears, and its site is a matter of mere

conjecture. [E. H. B.]

MELSIAGUM, a lake or marsh in Germany

(Mela, iii. 3. § 3), the site of which is unknown; it

is perhaps one of the lakes of Mtckhmlturg. [L. S.]

MELSUS (MrAcos), a small river of Ilispaiiia

Tarraconenis, flowing into the sea through the ter­

ritory of the Asttires, not far from the city Noega

(Noiyo). Perhaps the modern Narcea. (Strab, iii,

p. 167; Florez, Enp. Sagr. xv. p. 47.)

MEMBLIARUS. [Axaphe.]

MKMBRK'SA (Mfufono-o.), a town of the pro­

consular province, the position of which is fixed by

Procopius (B. V. ii. 15) at 350 stadia from Car­

thage. Menibressa (Membris>a, Peut, Tab.), as it

is called in the Ant mine Itinerary, was a station be­

tween Musti, and Siliciblia, and a place of some

importance in ecclesiastical history. (Morcelli, Africa

Christiana, vol. i. p. 223.) [E. B. J.]

MKMINI. [Carpehtoracte]

MEMNONENSES (MfUForeTi), « tribe of

Aethiopians, who dwelt between the Nile and the

Astapus, north of the peninsular region of Meroe.

(Ptol. iv. 8. § 114.) The name was not an indige­

nous one, but given by the Greek geographers to

one of the Nubian tribes, among whom they placed

their legend of Memnon, son of Aurora. [W.B.D.]

MKMPHIS (M«>^i, Herod.ii.99.114,136, 154;

Polyb. v. 61; l>iod. i. 50, sen.: Steph. B. $. v.:

Kth. M*n<pirj}s), the Norn of the Old Testament

(foaiah, xix. 13; Jerem. ii. 16, xliv. 1), was the

first capital of the entire kingdom of Aegypt, after

the Deltaic monarchy at Heliopolis was united to

the Thebaid capital at This or Abydos. It Btood

on the western bank of the Nile, 15 miles S. of

Cercasorus, in Int. 30° 6' N.

The foundation of Memphis belongs to the very

earliest age of Aegyptian history. It is ascribed (1)

to Mcnea, the first mortal king; (2) to Uchoreus, a

monarch of a later dynasty; and (3) to Apis or

Kpaphus. (Hygin. Fab. 149 ) But the two latter

may be dismissed as resting on very doubtful autho­

rity.(Diod.i.51.) The only certainty is that Memphis

was of remote antiquity, as indeed is implied in the

Ascription of its origin to Mencs, and that It was

the first capital of the united kingdom of Tpfwr

and Lower Aegypt, The motives which indnceo1

its fonnder to select such a site for his capital *r*

obvious. Not far removed from the bifurcation of the

Nile at Cercasorus, it commanded tlie & entrant*

to the Delta, while it was nearer to the TlnrbajJ

than any of the Deltaic provincial cities o( im­

portance, Heliopolis, Bubastis, and Saia. It is aisa

dear why he placed it on the western hank of tb«

Nile. His kingdom had little to apprehend from

the tribes of the Libyan desert; whereas the eastern

frontier of Aegypt was always exposed to attack

from Arabia, Assyria, and Persia, nor indeed was it

beyond the reach of the Scythians. (Henri i. 1(>5>

It was important, therefore, to make the Nile a bar­

rier of the city; and this was effected by placing

Memphis W. of it. Before, however, Mene* cnuld

lay the foundations of his capital, an artificial area

was to be provided for them. The Nile, at that remote

period, seems ta have had a double bifurcation: on*

at the head of the Delta, the other above the *ite of

Memphis, and parallel with the ArMnotte Ntane.

Of the branches of its southern fork, the wraiern

and the wider of the two ran at the foot of the

Libyan hills; the eastern and lower wms the present

main stream. Between them the plain, though

resting on a limestone basis, was covered with

marshes, caused by their periodical overflow. Tina

plain Mencs chose for the area of Memphis. Ha

began by constructing an embankment about 100

stadia S. of its site, that diverted the main body of

the water into the eastern arm; and the marshes !«•

drained off into two principal lakes, one to N„ th*

other to W. of Memphis, which thus, on every side

but S.t was defended by water.

The area of Memphis, according to Diodoru«(i_50\,

occupied a circuit of 150 stadia, or at least 15 mile*.

This j-jaie, doubtless, included much open grooml.

laid out in gardens, as well as the courts requires!

for the barracks of the garrison, in the quarter

denominated "the White Castle." and which was

successively occupied, under the Pharaoh*, by the

native militia; in the reign of Psamtnctit-hu* (*-C.

G58—614), by Phoenician and Greek meroenaiiea;

by the Persians, after the invaskm of Camhyea

(b. c. 524); and finally by the Macedonian arid

Human troop*. For although Memphis wmj i*<

always a royal residence, it retained always two

features of a metropolis: (1) it was the seat *af Use

central garrison, at least until Alexandres w«

founded ; and (2) its necropolis—the pyramid*—-

was the tomb of the kings of every native dynasty.

The mound which curbed the inundation* of tba

Nile was so essential to the very existence of Mem­

phis, that even the Persians, who ravaged er

neglected all other great works of the country,

annually repaired it (Herod. iL 99.) Tbe tlixn*:*

was of remarkable salubrity; the toil cxtrvrnvfy

productive; and the prospect rrotn its walk at­

tracted the notice of the Greeks and Romans, »bo

seldom cared much for the picturesque. D*ud«.*-tis>

(i. 96) mentions its bright green meadows, inter.

sected by canals, jar en with tbelotus-Huwvr. I*lmy

(xiii. 10, xvi. 21) speaks of trees of such girth that

three men with extended arms could not span tl*-vt.

Martial (vi. 80) says that the"navita Memphitkcan*

brought roses in winter to Borne (rump, Lcfia,

Pharttal. iv. 135); and Athenaeus (i 20. p, I I)

celebrates its teeming soil and its wine, (fussm,

Joseph. Antiy. ii. 14. §4; Horace, Od. iU- »$. la)

And these natural advantages were seconded by iu

