HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXXI. 313

the country; and the guard, which they had left, was

very insufficient; but he was apprehensive that his men

were too much fatigued by their hasty march. The

Gauls, recalled from the fields by the shouts of their

party, returned to the camp without seizing the booty

within their reach, and, next day, marched out to offer

battle; the Roman did not decline the combat, but had

scarcely time to make the necessary dispositions, so

rapidly did the enemy advance to the fight. The right

brigade (for he had the troops of the allies divided

into brigades) was placed in the first line, the two Ro­

man legions in reserve. Marcus Furius was at the

head of the right brigade, Marcus Caecilius of the le­

gions, and Lucius Valerius Flaccus of the cavalry:

these were all lieutenants-general. Two other lieute­

nants-general, Cneius Laetorius and Publius Titinnius,

the pretor kept near himself, that, with their assistance,

he might observe, and take proper measures against

any sudden attack. At first, the Gauls, bending their

whole force to one point, were in hopes of being able

to overwhelm, and trample under foot, the right brigade,

which was in the van; but not succeeding, they en­

deavored to turn round the flanks, and to surround

their enemy's line, which, considering the multitude

of their forces, and the small number of the others,

seemed easy to be done. On observing this, the pre­

tor, in order to extend his own line, brought up the

two legions from the reserve, and placed them on the

right and left of the brigade which was engaged in the

van; vowing a temple to J.upiter, if he should on that day

prove victorious. To Lucius Valerius he gave orders

to make the horsemen of the two legions on one flank,

and the cavalry of the allies on the other, charge the

wings of the enemy, and not suffer them to come round

to his rear. At the same time, observing that the centre

of their line was weakened, from having extended the

wings, be directed his men to make an attack there in

close order, and to break through their ranks. The

wings were routed by the cavalry, and, at the same

time, the centre by the foot. Being worsted in all

