380 LIVY.

ships, and fifty lighter open ones, and thirty Issean

barks, shall begin to lay waste our coasts, and attack,

the cities which stand exposed, almost on the very

shore,—shall we then retreat into the inland towns, as

if we were not afflicted with an intestine war, though

in truth it is rankling in our very bowels? When

Nabis and the Lacedaemonians by land, and the Roman

fleet by sea, shall press us, where must I implore the

support due from the king's alliance; where the suc­

cors of the Macedonians .' Shall we ourselves, with

our own arms, defend, against the Roman forces, the

cities that will be attacked? Truly, in the former war,

we defended Dymse excellently well! The calamities

of others afford us abundant examples; let us not seek

to render ourselves an example to the rest. Do not,

because the Romans voluntarily desire your friend­

ship, contemn that which you ought to have prayed

for, nay, labored with all your might to obtain. But

it is insinuated that they are impelled by fear, in a

country to which they are strangers; and that, wishing

to shelter themselves under your assistance, they have

recourse to your alliance in the hope of being admitted

into your harbors, and of there finding supplies of pro­

visions. Now, at sea, they are absolute masters, and

instantly reduce to subjection every place at which

they land. What they request they have power to en­

force. Because they wish to treat you with tender­

ness they do not allow you to take steps that must

lead you to ruin. Cleomedon lately pointed out, as

the middle and safest way, to maintain a neutrality;

but that is not a middle way; it is no way: for, be­

sides the necessity of either embracing or rejecting the

Roman alliance, what other consequence can ensue

from such conduct than that, while we show no steady

attachment to either side, as if we waited the event

with design to adapt our counsels to fortune, we shall

bscome the prey of the conqueror? Contemn not,

then, when it is offered to your acceptance, what you

ought to have solicited with your warmest prayers.

The free option between the two, which you have this

