HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXVII. 3

death. The Romans who escaped the slaughter of this

disastrous day fled, half armed, by different roads into

Samnium, to the consul Marcellus.

2. Marcellus, not too much dismayed by so great a

disaster, wrote to Rome to the senate an account of the

general and army being lost at Herdonea; adding, that

notwithstanding this misfortune, ' he, who had quelled

the haughty spirit of Hannibal, when his confidence

was at the highest, in consequence of his victory at

Cannae, was now going against him, with the same

degree of resolution, and would take effectual care

that his present joy and exultation should be short.'

At Rome, as people's grief for the past was great, so

were their fears of the future. The consul, passing

over from Samnium into Lucania, pitched his camp at

Numistro, on level ground, within view of Hannibal,

who was posted on a bill. He gave, besides, another

proof of confidence in his own strength, for he was the

first to offer battle: nor did Hannibal, on seeing the

standards advance through the gates, decline the chal­

lenge. However, they drew up their forces in such

a manner, that the right wing of the Carthaginians

stretched up the hill, and the left wing of the Romans

was brought close to the town. From the third hour

the action had lasted until night, and the fatigue of

fighting for such a length of time had overpowered the

foremost lines, consisting, on the side of the Romans,

of the first legion and the right wing of allies; on

Hannibal's side, of the Spanish infantry, Balearic

slingers, and the elephants, which, at the beginning of

the engagement, had been brought into the field. And

now the fight flagged for a considerable time, neither

party having gained any advantage, when the third

legion advanced into the place of the first, and the left

wing of the allies into that of the right; on the side of

the enemy, likewise, the wearied were relieved by

fresh troops. On this, both parties being in full spi­

rits and vigor, instead of the former languid efforts, a

furious conflict at once arose; but night separated the

combatants before the victory could be decided. Next

