122 LIVY.

assured that every one whom they saw going out to

battle would meet death in the engagement. They

then besought them, by the deities celestial and infer­

nal, that mindful of their liberty, which must termi­

nate on that day either in an honorable death or dis­

graceful slavery, they would leave no object on which

the enraged enemy could vent their fury. That they

had fire and swords at their command; and that it

were better that their friendly and faithful hands

should consume those things which must necessarily

perish, than that the foe should insult over them with

haughty scorn.' To these exhortations they added

dreadful imprecations against any who should be di­

verted from their purpose, either by hope or tender­

ness; and then with rapid speed and violent impe­

tuosity they rushed out through the open gates. There

was none of the outposts strong enough to withstand

them, because nothing could have been less appre­

hended than that they should dare to come out of the

fortifications; a very few troops of horse, and the

light infantry, despatched in haste from the camp,

threw themselves in their way. The encounter was

furious, owing more to their impetuosity and resolu­

tion than to any regular disposition. The horse, there­

fore, which had first engaged, being discomfited, com­

municated the terror to the light infantry; and the

battle would have reached to the very rampart, had

not the main body of the legions drawn out their line,

though there was very little time allowed them for

forming. Even among their battalions there was some

confusion; while the Astapans, blinded with fury,

rushed on against men and weapons with the most

daring insensibility of danger. But in a short time

the veteran soldiers, too steady to be disturbed by

such rash attacks, by killing the foremost, stopped the

advance of the next. Afterwards, when they endea­

vored to gain on them, finding that not a man gave

way, but that they were obstinately determined to die,

they extended their line, which their numbers enabled

them to do with ease; they then surrounded the flanks

