HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXXI. 331

a regular battle. Wherefore, recalling his son, and

the guard posted at the pass of Pelagonia, in order to

strengthen his army by the addition of those troops, he

thereby opened a passage into Macedonia for Pleura-

tus and the Dardanians. Then, taking deserters for

guides, he marched towards the enemy with twenty

thousand foot, and four thousand horse, and, at the

distance of somewhat more than two hundred paces

from the Roman camp, and near Ithacus, he fortified

a hill with a trench and rampart. From this place,

taking a view of the Roman station in the valley be­

neath, he is said to have been struck with admiration,

both at the general appearance of the camp, and the

regular disposition of each particular part, distin­

guished by the order of the tents, and the intervals

of the passages, and to have declared, that, certainly,

that was not a camp of barbarians. For two days, the

consul and the king, each waiting for the other's mak­

ing some attempt, kept their troops within the ram­

parts. On the third day the Roman led out all his

forces and offered battle.

35. But the king, not daring to risk so hastily a ge­

neral engagement, sent four hundred Trallians, who

are a tribe of the Illyrians, as we have said in another

place, and three hundred Cretans; adding to this body

of infantry an equal number of horse, under the com­

mand of Athenagoras, one of his nobles honored with

the purple, to make an attack on the enemy's cavalry.

When these troops arrived within a little more than

five hundred paces, the Romans sent out the light in­

fantry, and two cohorts of horse, that both cavalry and

infantry might be equal in number to the Macedonians.

The king's troops expected that the method of fighting

would be such as they had been accustomed to; that

the horsemen, pursuing and retreating alternately,

would at one time use their weapons, at another time

turn their backs; that the agility of the Illyrians would

be serviceable for excursions and sudden attacks, and

that the Cretans might discharge their arrows as they

advanced eagerly to the charge: but this plan of fight-

