HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXXII. 359

Gauls, was, with almost the whole of his army, at­

tacked at disadvantage and overthrown. He lost above

six thousand six hundred men,—a severe blow from an

enemy who had for some time ceased to be considered

as being formidable. This event called away the con­

sul, Lucius Lentulus, from the city; who, arriving in

the province, which was in general confusion, and

taking the command of the army, which he found dis­

pirited by its defeat, severely reprimanded the pretor,

and ordered him to quit the province, and return to

Rome. Neither did the consul himself perform any

considerable service, being called home to preside at

the elections, which were obstructed by Marcus Ful-

vius and Manius Curius, plebeian tribunes, who wished

to hinder Titus Quintius Flamininus from standing can­

didate for the consulship, after passing through the of­

fice of questor. They alleged that 'the edileship and

pretorship were now held in contempt, and that the

nobility did not make their way to the consulship

through the regular gradations of offices; but, passing

over the intermediate steps, pushed at once from the

lowest to the highest.' From a dispute in the field of

Mars, the affair was brought before the senate, where

it was voted 'that when a person sued for any post,

which by the laws he was permitted to hold, the peo­

ple had the right of choosing whoever they thought

proper.' To this decision of the senate the tribunes

submitted, and thereon Sextus jElius Paetus and Titus

Quintius Flamininus were elected. Then was held the

election of pretors. The persons chosen were Lucius

Cornelius Merula, Marcus Claudius Marcellus, Marcus

Porcius Cato, and Cains Helvius, who had been ple­

beian ediles. These repeated the plebeian games, and,

on occasion of the games, celebrated a feast of Jupiter.

The curule ediles, also, Caius Valerius Flaccus, who

was flamen of Jupiter, and Caius Cornelius Cethegus,

celebrated the Roman games with great magnificence.

Servius and Caius Sulpicius Galba, pontiffs, died this

year: in their room, in the college, were substituted

Marcus jEmilius Lepidus and Cneius Cornelius Scipio.

