270 LIVY.

other, Carthage, having exhausted her ]ast resources,

seemed to be threatened with immediate ruin. Next

day advanced two by far the most illustrious generals,

and two most puissant armies, of the two most power­

ful states, to complete the splendid fabric of glory

which they had erected, and which each was desirous

of securing to himself. The minds of all were anxi­

ously suspended between hope and fear; and, whilst

they viewed at one time their own, at another the

enemy's army, estimating their powers either by the

eye or judgment, they met with objects both of encou­

ragement and of dread. Such as did not occur to their

own thoughts were suggested by the generals in their

admonitions and exhortations. The Carthaginian re­

counted the exploits of sixteen years in the heart of

Italy; so many Roman generals, so many armies ut­

terly destroyed; and when he came to any soldier

who had been distinguished for his behavior in a for­

mer battle, he reminded him of the honors which ha

had received. Scipio called to his men's recollection

Spain, the late engagements in Africa, and the ac-

knowlegement of the enemy, that they had been com­

pelled by their fears to sue for peace; which, yet, the

natural perfidy of their disposition would not allow

them to establish. He related also his conference with

Hannibal; which, as it had passed in secret, he might

have misrepresented at his pleasure. He mentioned,

as an encouraging omen, that, as they were coming

out to battle, the gods had shown them the same por­

tents, under the auspices of which their fathers had

fought at the islands /Egates. 'The end of the war,

and of all their toils,' he said, 'was now at hand;

they had within their reach the plunder of Carthage:

and might speedily return home to their country, to

their parents, their children, their wives, and their

household gods.' These words he uttered in an erect

attitude, and with a countenance so animated with joy,

that he seemed as if he had already obtained the vic­

tory.

S3. He then drew up the spearmen in the van, be-

