160 LIVY.

of one man, a Spartan, to produce such important

consequences 1 But we are also told of the Athenians

neglecting a war at home, and passing inconsiderately

into Sicily. Why do you not rather, since you have

leisure to recount Grecian fables, mention Agathocles,

king of Syracuse, who, when Sicily was for a long

time wasted by a Punic war, by passing over into this

same Africa, averted that war to the place from whence

it came?

44. ' But what need is there either of ancient or

foreign examples to remind us how useful it is to

spread terror among the enemy by a sudden attack;

and after removing the danger to a distance from our­

selves, to make him abide the hazard? Can there be

any greater or more striking instance than is found in

Hannibal? Between wasting the territories of others,

and seeing our own destroyed with fire and sword, the

difference is immense. The assailant has ever more

spirit than the defendant; and people's apprehensions

are the greater in the latter case. When you have

entered an enemy's territories, you can then see more

distinctly the advantages and disadvantages which per­

tain to the same. Hannibal never entertained a hope

that so many nations in Italy would revolt to him as

did, and which was induced by our misfortune at

CannEB. How much less can any firm and steady sup­

port in Africa be expected by the Carthaginians, who

are themselves faithless allies, severe and haughty

masters? As to ourselves, even when deserted by

confederates, we stood firm in our own natural strength,

the soldiery of Rome. This the Carthaginians do not

possess; besides, their soldiers are procured for hire,

—Africans, with Numidians, of all men the most un­

steady in their attachments. If no obstruction be

thrown in my way at home, you shall shortly hear,

that I have made good my descent, and that Africa is

in a blaze of war; that Hannibal, in returning thither,

comes but to experience a defeat, and that Carthage is

besieged: in fine, expect confidently more frequent

and more joyful dispatches from that continent than

