218 LIVY.

fleet. Hanno, having received the newly raised body

of cavalry, (which, so far from being strong enough

to make any attempt on the enemy, was not even suffi­

cient to protect the country from devastation,) made it

his first care to increase their number by pressing.

Those of other nations were not rejected; but he col­

lected mostly N umidians, who are by far the best horse­

men in Africa. Having got together four thousand horse,

he took up his quarters in a city called Salera', fifteen

miles from the Roman camp. When this was told to

Scipio, he said, with surprise, ' What! cavalry lodg­

ing in houses during the summer! Let them be even

more in number, while they have such a commander.'

The less they showed of activity, the less time he

thought should be lost by himself; he therefore sent

forward Masinissa with the cavalry, giving them di­

rections to ride up to the gates, and entice the enemy

out to battle. That when their multitudes should pour

out, and become too powerful in the contest, he

should give way by degrees; and that he would him­

self come up in time to support the fight. When the

advanced party had, as he supposed, effected his pur­

pose, he followed with the Roman horse, and pro­

ceeded, without being observed, under cover of some

rising grounds which lay very conveniently round the

windings of the road. Masinissa, according to the

plan laid down, acted at one time as if threatening an

assault, at another as if seized with fear; now riding

up to the very gates, and now retreating with dissem­

bled haste, which gave such boldness to the enemy,

that they were at length tempted to come out of the

town, and pursue him, with disorder, in his counter­

feited flight. All however had not come forth; and

with these remaining numbers the commander was not

a little perplexed. Some, overpowered with wine and

sleep, he had to compel to the taking of arms; others

he had to stop who were running out by the gates

without their standards, and in scattered parties,

wholly regardless of order or ranks. Masinissa with­

stood them at first, while they rushed rashly to the

