HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXXII. 381

day, you will not always have. The same opportunity

will not last long, nor will it frequently recur. You

have long wished to deliver yourselves out of the hands

of Philip, although you have not dared to make the

attempt. Those have now crossed the sea, with large

fleets and armies, who are able to set you at liberty,

without any trouble or danger to yourselves. If you

reject such allies, the soundness of your understand足

ings may be called in question; but you must, unavoid足

ably, have to deal with them, either as friends or foes.'

22. This speech of the pretor was followed by a

general murmur; some declaring their approbation,

and others sharply rebuking those who did so. And

now, not only individuals, but whole states engaged in

altercation; and at length the magistrates, called de-

miurguses, who are ten in number, took up the dispute

with as much warmth as the multitude. Five of them

declared that they would propose the question concern足

ing an alliance with Rome, and would take the votes

on it; while five insisted that there was a law, by

which the magistrates were prohibited from proposing,

and the council from decreeing, any thing injurious to

the alliance with Philip. This day, also, was spent in

contention, and there remained now but one day more'

of the regular time of sitting; for, according to the

rule, the decree must be passed on the third day; and

as that approached, the zeal of the parties was kindled

into such a flame, that scarcely did parents refrain from

offering violence to their own sons. There was present

a man of Pallene, named Rhisiasus, whose son Mem-

non was a demiurgus, and was of that party which op足

posed the reading of the decree and taking the votes.

This man, for a long time, intreated his son to allow

the Achaeans to take proper measures for their common

safety, and not, by his obstinacy, to bring ruin on the

whole nation; but, finding that his intreaties had no

effect, he swore that he would treat him, not as a son,

but as an enemy, and would put him to death with his

own hand. By these threats he forced him, next day,

to join the party that voted for the question being pro-

