390 LIVY.

was ordered to be sent into Macedonia to Quintius,

together with three thousand seamen. Lucius Quintius

Flamininus was continued in the command of the fleet.

To each of the pretors, for the two Spains, were

granted eight thousand foot, of the allies and Latines,

and four hundred horse; and they were ordered to

discharge the veteran troops in their provinces, and

also to fix the bounds which should divide the hither

from the farther province. Two additional lieutenants-

general were sent to the army in Macedonia, Publius

Sulpicius and Publius Villius, who had been consuls

in that province.

29. It was thought necessary that before the con­

suls and pretors went abroad some prodigies should be

expiated: for the temples of Vulcan and Summanus,'

at Rome, and a wall and a gate at Fregellas, had been

struck by lightning. At Frusino, during the night, a

light like day shone out. At Asculum, a lamb was

born with two heads and five feet. At Formiae, two

wolves entering the town tore several persons who fell

in their way; and, at Rome, a wolf made its way, not

only into the city, but into the capitol. Caius Acilius,

plebeian tribune, caused an order to be passed that

five colonies should be led out to the sea-coast; two to

the mouths of the rivers Vulturnus and Liternus; one

to Puteoli, and one to the fort of Salernum. To these

was added Buxentum. To each colony three hundred

families were ordered to be sent. The commissioners

appointed to make the settlements, who were to hold

the office for three years, were Marcus Servilius Ge-

minus, Quintus Minucius Thermus, and Tiberius Sem-

pronius Longus. As soon as the levies, and such other

business, religious and civil, as required their personal

attendance, was finished, the consuls set out for Gaul.

Cornelius took the direct road towards the Insubrians,

who were then in arms, and had been joined by the

Caenomanians. Quintus Minucius turned his route to

the left side of Italy, and leading away his army to

i Fluto, Summus Manium.

