116 LIVY.

ships, intrusting himself, in an enemy's country, to the

power of the king, and to his fidelity, as yet untried.

Scipio had formed the scheme of subduing their peo­

ple, had long entertained this design, and had openly

expressed his regret that he was not carrying on war

in Africa, as Hannibal was in Italy.' The league, how­

ever, being ratified with Syphax, Scipio set sail; and

after being tossed a good deal during the voyage, by

variable and generally boisterous winds, he made the

harbor of New Carthage on the fourth day.

19. As Spain had now rest from the Carthaginian

war, so it was manifest that some states remained

quiet rather through fear, arising from the conscious­

ness of misbehavior, than through sincere attachment.

The most remarkable of these, both in greatness and

in guilt, were Illiturgi and Castulo. The inhabitants

of Castulo, allies of the Romans while they were suc­

cessful, had, on the destruction of the first Scipios and

their armies, revolted to the Carthaginians. Those of

Illiturgi, by betraying and killing such as had fled to

them after that calamity, had added barbarity to re­

volt. To have executed severe vengeance on those

states, at Scipio's first coming, when affairs in Spain

were in a precarious state, would have been more

suited to their demerits than agreeable to principles of

sound policy; but now, when affairs were in a state

of tranquillity, the proper time for inflicting punish­

ment seemed to have arrived. He therefore sent for

Lucius Marcius from Tarraco, and despatching him

with a third part of the forces to besiege Castulo, he

went himself with the rest of the army against Illi­

turgi, where he arrived on the fifth day. The gates

there had been already shut, and every precaution

taken, and preparation made for repelling an attack;

so far had their consciousness of what they merited

served them instead of a declaration of war. Hence

Scipio took occasion to represent, in an exhortation to

his soldiers, ' that the Spaniards themselves, by shut­

ting their gates, had shown what, in justice, they had

reason to apprehend; that they ought, therefore, to

