364 LIVY.

military discipline, while their arms were of a kind

well calculated for pressing close on the Macedonians,

who had indeed the advantage of ground, with balistas

and catapultas disposed on almost every rock as on

walls. After many wounds given and received on both

sides, and numbers being slain, as in a regular engage­

ment, darkness put an end to the fight.

11. While matters were in this state a herdsman,

sent by Charopus, prince of the Epirots, was brought

to the consul. He said, that' being accustomed to feed

his herd in the forest, then occupied by the king's

camp, he knew every winding and path in the neigh­

boring mountains; and that if the consul thought proper

to send some troops with him, he would lead them by a

road, neither dangerous nor difficult, to a spot over the

enemy's head.' Charopus sent a message to the Ro­

man, to give just so much credit to this man's account

as should still leave every thing in his own power, and

as little as possible in that of the other. Though the

consul rather wished than dared to give the intelligence

full belief, and though his emotions of joy were strongly

checked by fear, yet being moved by the confidence

due to Charopus, he resolved to put to trial the favor­

able offer. In order to prevent all suspicion of the

matter, during the two following days he carried on

attacks against the enemy without intermission, draw­

ing out troops against them in every quarter, and

sending up fresh men to relieve the wearied. Then,

selecting four thousand foot and three hundred horse,

he put them under the command of a military tribune,

with directions to advance the horse as far as the na­

ture of the ground allowed; and when they came to

places impassable to cavalry, then to post them in some

plain; that the infantry should proceed by the road

which the guide would show; and that when, accord­

ing to his promise, they arrived on the height over the

enemy's head, then they should give a signal by smoke,

but raise no shout, until the tribune should have rea­

son to think that, in consequence of the signal received

from him, the battle was begun. He ordered that the

