384 livY.

posted at all the gates, and that the sallies of the be­

sieged could not easily be withstood, be came over to

the opinion of Attains. Thus baffled in their design,

they dismissed the Acbaeans, and returned to their

ships. Attalus steered to Piraeus, the Romans to Cor­

ey ra.

24. While the naval forces were thus employed, the

consul, having encamped before Elatia, in Pbocis, first

endeavored, by conferring with the principal inhabi­

tants, to bring them over, and by their means to effect

his purpose; but on their answering that they had no­

thing in their power, because the king's troops were

more numerous and stronger than the townsmen, be

assaulted the city on all sides at once with arms and

engines. A battering-ram shattered a part of the wall

that reached from one tower to another, and this fall­

ing with a prodigious noise and crash, left much of the

town exposed. On this a Roman cohort made an as­

sault through the breach, while at the same time the

townsmen, quitting their several posts, ran together

from all parts to the endangered place. Others of the

Romans climbed over the ruins of the wall, and brought

up scaling-ladders to the parts that were standing. As

the conflict attracted the eyes and attention of the enemy

to one particular spot, the walls were scaled in several

places, by which means the soldiers easily entered the

town. The noise and tumult which ensued so terrified

the enemy, that quitting the place which they had

crowded together to defend, they all fled in panic to

the citadel, accompanied by the unarmed multitude.

The consul having thus become master of the town,

gave it up to be plundered, and then sent a messenger

into the citadel, offering the king's troops their lives,

on condition of their laying down their arms and de­

parting. To the Elatians he offered their liberty;

which terms being agreed to, in a few days after he

got possession of the citadel.

25. In consequence of Philocles, the king's general,

coming into Achaia, not only Corinth was delivered

from the siege, but the city of Argos was betrayed into

