HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXXII. 397

force, but assisted my friend and ally, Prusias, who

was besieging it, and Lysimachia I rescued from the

Thracians. But since necessity diverted my attention

from the guarding of it to this present war, the Thra­

cians have possession of it. So much for the jEtolians.

To Attalus and the Rhodians I in justice owe nothing;

for not to me, but to themselves, is the commencement

of hostilities to be attributed. However, out of respect

to the Romans, I will restore Perae to the Rhodians,

and to Attalus his ships, and such prisoners as can be

found. As to what concerns Nicephorium, and the

temple of Venus, what other answer can I make to

those who require their restoration, than what I should

make in case of woods and groves cut down; that, as

the only way of restoring them, I will take on myself

the trouble and expense of planting, since it is thought

fit that, between kings, such kinds of demands should

be made and answered?' The last part of his speech

was directed to the Achaeans, wherein he enumerated,

first, the kindnesses of Antigonus; then, his own to­

wards their nation, desiring them to consider the de­

crees themselves had passed concerning him, which

comprehended every kind of honor, divine and human;

and to these he added their late decree, by which they

had confirmed the resolution of deserting him. He in­

veighed bitterly against their perfidy, but told them

that nevertheless he would give them back Argos.

'With regard to Corinth, he would consult with the

Roman general; and would, at the same time, inquire

from him, whether he demanded only that he, Philip,

should evacuate those cities which, being captured by

himself, were held by the right of war; or those, also,

which he had received from his ancestors.'

35. The Achaeans and JEtolians were preparing to

answer, but, as the sun was near setting, the conference

was adjourned to the next day; and Philip returned

to his station whence he came, the Romans and allies

to their camp. On the following day, Quintius re­

paired to Nicaea, which was the place agreed on, at the

