IS LIVY.

set sail from Tarraco, arrived at Rome, and passing

through the streets, with the train of prisoners whom

he hrought, attracted a vast concourse of people. Next

day, being introduced to the senate, he delivered the

advices with which he was charged, that Carthage, the

metropolis of Spain, had been reduced in one day,

several revolted cities brought back to obedience, and

new alliances formed with others. From the prisoners

information was gained, corresponding, in general, with

that contained in the letter of Marcus Valerius Mes-

sala. What gave the greatest uneasiness to the senate

-was Hasdrubal's intended march into Italy, which was  
scarcely able to withstand Hannibal, and the force

which he had already with him. Laelius also, coming

out into the general assembly, gave a similar account.

The senate, in consideration of the services performed

by Publius Scipio, decreed a supplication for one day,

and then ordered Caius Laelius to return with all expe­

dition to Spain, with the ships which he had brought

thence. On the authority of a great many historians,

I have fixed the taking of Carthage in this year, al­

though I am not ignorant that several have placed it in

the year following; but it appeared to me very impro­

bable that Scipio should have passed a whole year in

Spain without doing any thing. [A. U. C. 543. B. C.

209.] The consulate of Quintus Fabius Maximus, a

fifth time, and Quintus Fulvius Flaccus, a fourth, com­

mencing on the ides of March, a decree was passed on

the same day, appointing Italy the province of both,

but they were to command separately in different quar­

ters; Fabius to conduct the operations of the war at

Tarentum, Fulvius in Lucania and Bruttium. Marcus

Claudius was continued in command for a year. The

pretors then cast lots for their provinces: Caius Hos-

tilius Tibullus obtained the city jurisdiction; Lucius

Veturius Philo the foreign, with Gaul; Titus Quintius

Crispinus, Capua; and Caius Arunculeius, Sardinia.

The troops were distributed among the provinces in

this manner: to Fulvius were decreed the two legions

which Marcus Valerius Laevinus had in Sicily; to

