HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXIX. 177

them,) with orders to lead three thousand men from

Rhegium to Locri, and for Quintus Pleminius, pro-

pretor, to give assistance in the business. These set

out as commanded, carrying scaling ladders fitted to

the height of the citadel, according to their informa­

tion, and about midnight they gave the signal from the

place appointed, to those who were to betray that

fortress. These were prepared, and on the watch ; and

letting down from their side machines made for the

purpose, received the Romans as they climbed up in

several places at once. They then fell on the Cartha­

ginian sentinels, who, not apprehending any danger,

were fast asleep; their dying groans were the first

sound heard. A sudden consternation followed as the

remainder awoke, with a general confusion from being

wholly ignorant of the cause of alarm. At length, the

greater part of them being roused from sleep, the truth

was discovered. And now every one called loudly to

arms; that the enemy were in the citadel; that the

sentinels were slain. The Romans, being much in­

ferior in number, would certainly have been over­

powered, had not a shout, raised by those who were at

the outside of the citadel, prevented the garrison from

discerning on what side the danger threatened, while

the darkness of the night aggravated every fear. The

Carthaginians, supposing that the citadel had been sur­

prised and taken, without attempting a contest, fled to

another fortress not far distant from this. The inhabi­

tants held the city which lay between these strong­

holds as a prize for the conquerors, slight engagements

happening every day. Quintus Pleminius commanded

the Roman, Hamilcar the Carthaginian garrison, both

of whom increased their forces daily, by calling in aid

from the neighboring places. At length Hannibal pre­

pared to come thither, so that the Romans could not

have kept their ground had not the principal part of

the Locrensians, exasperated by the pride and avarice

of the Carthaginians, inclined to their side.

7. As soon as Scipio was informed that the danger

increased at Locri, and that Hannibal was approach-

LIV. VOL. V. M

