HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXIX. 201

men's natural disposition was such, that they showed

rather a dislike to the commission of faults, than suffi­

cient resolution to punish them, when committed.' This

relieved the pretor and council from a heavy hurden,

that of inquiring into the conduct of Scipio. They con­

demned Pleminius, with thirty-two others, whom they

sent in chains to Rome; and then proceeded to Scipio,

that, witnessing all matters, they might carry certain

information to Rome as to the truth of those reports

which had been propagated concerning his manner of

living, inactivity, and total relaxation of military dis­

cipline.

22. While they were on their way to Syracuse, Sci­

pio prepared, not words, but facts, to clear himself of

any charges in the remission of duty. He ordered all

the troops to assemble in that city, and the fleet to be

got in readiness, as if, on that day, there was to be an

engagement with the Carthaginians both on land and

sea. On the arrival of the commissioners, he gave

them a kind reception and entertainment, and next

day showed them both the land and naval forces, not

only marshalled in exact order, but the former per­

forming their evolutions, and the fleet in the harbor

exhibiting a representation of a naval combat. The

pretor and deputies were then led round to take a view

of the armories, granaries, and other warlike prepara­

tions: and with such admiration were they struck, of

each in particular, and of the whole together, as to be­

come thoroughly persuaded that the Carthaginians

would be vanquished by that general and that army,

or by no other. They desired him to set out on his

voyage, with the blessing of the gods; and to fulfil, as

soon as possible, the hopes of the Roman people,—

those hopes which they had conceived on that day,

when all the centuries concurred in naming him first

consul: saying this, they left the place, and with as

much joy as if they were to carry to Rome the news of

a victory, not of a grand preparation for war. Ple­

minius, and those who were in the same circumstances

with him, were, on their arrival at Rome, immediately

