HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXVIII. 107

infantry, according to some, there were seventy thou­

sand led to the city of Silpia. There the two Cartha­

ginian generals sat down in an extensive plain, deter­

mined not to avoid a battle.

13. When Scipio received the account of the army

being assembled, he saw plainly that, with the Roman

legions alone, he could not oppose so great a multitude;

nor without using the auxiliary troops of the barba­

rians, at least for the purpose of making a show of

strength; but that, at the same time, it was highly

improper that they should compose such a proportion

of his force as might enable them, by changing sides,

to produce consequences of importance—an event which

had caused the destruction of his father and uncle.

Sending forward therefore Silanus to Colca, who was

sovereign of twenty-eight towns, to receive from him

the horse and foot which he had engaged to raise during

the winter, he set out himself from Tarraco, and, col­

lecting small bodies of auxiliaries from the allies who

lay near his road, proceeded to Castulo. Hither Sila­

nus brought three thousand auxiliary foot and five

hundred horse. From thence he advanced to the city

of Bascula, his army amounting, in the whole, of his

countrymen and allies, horse and foot, to forty-five

thousand. While they were forming their camp Mago

and Masinissa, with the whole of their cavalry, made

an attack on them, and would have dispersed the work­

men, had not some horsemen whom Scipio had con­

cealed behind a hill, conveniently situated for the pur­

pose, suddenly rushed out as they advanced to the

charge. These, at the first onset, routed all who had

pushed on foremost against the men employed in the

fortification. The contest with the rest, who advanced

on their march drawn up in regular order, was longer,

and for some time doubtful. But the light cohorts

from the outposts, the soldiers called off from the

works, and afterwards greater numbers, who were or­

dered to take arms, came up fresh, and engaged the

wearied enemy. At the same time a large body rushed

in arms from the camp to battle. The Carthaginians

