HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXXII. 401

should keep it himself. Accordingly, he wrote to Phi-

locles, who had the command in Corinth and Argos,

to have a meeting with the tyrant. Philocles, besides

coming with a valuable present, added to that pledge

Of future friendship between the king and the tyrant,

that it was Philip's wish to unite his daughters in

marriage to the sons of Nabis. The tyrant at first

refused to receive the city on any other terms than

that of being invited by a decree of the Argives them­

selves: but afterwards, hearing that in a full assembly

they had treated his name not only with scorn, but

even with abhorrence, he thought he had now a suffi­

cient excuse for plundering them, and he accordingly

desired Philip to give him possession of the place.

Nabis was admitted into the city in the night, without

the privity of any of the inhabitants, and, at the first

light, seized on the higher parts of it, and shut the

gates. A few of the principal people having made

their escape during the first confusion, the properties

of all who were absent were seized as booty: those

who were present were stripped of their gold and

silver, and loaded with exorbitant contributions. Such

as paid these readily were discharged without personal

insult and laceration of their bodies; but such as were

suspected of hiding or reserving any of their effects,

were mangled and tortured like slaves. He then sum­

moned an assembly, in which he proposed the passing

of two laws; one for an abolition of debts, the other

for a distribution of the land, in shares, to each man—

two firebrands in the hands of the enemies of govern­

ment, for inflaming the populace against the higher

ranks.

39. The tyrant, when he had the city of Argos in his

power, never considering from whom, or on what con­

ditions, he had received it, sent ambassadors to Elatia,

to Quintius, and to Attalus, in his winter quarters at

jEgina, to tell them that ' he was in possession of

Argos; and that if Quintius would come hither and

consult with him, he had no doubt but that every thing

liv. vol. v. 2 c

