HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXX. 227

which would probably be against whatever part was

destitute of forces for its defence: for that fleet, in

pursuance of a decree of the senate, the consuls en­

listed three thousand men, and also two city legions,

for the exigences of the war. Spain, with the armies

there, and the command, was decreed to the former

generals, Lucius Lentulus and Lucius Manlius Acidi-

hus. The Romans employed in their service, for that

year, in all, twenty legions, and a hundred and sixty

ships of war. The pretors were directed to repair to

their provinces; and orders were given to the consuls

that, before their departure from the city, they should

celebrate the great games, which Titus Manlius Tor-

quatus, in his dictatorship, had vowed to be exhibited

in the fifth year, if the condition of the state remained

unaltered. Religious apprehensions were raised in

men's minds by relations of prodigies brought from

several places. It was believed that crows had not

only torn with their beaks some gold in the capitol,

but had even eaten it. At Antium, mice gnawed a

golden crown. A vast quantity of locusts filled all

the country round Capua, though it could not be dis­

covered from whence they came. At Reate a foal was

produced with five feet. At Anagnia there appeared

in the sky, at first scattered fire, and afterwards a pro­

digious blaze. At Frusino a circle encompassed the

sun with a narrow line; then the orb of the sun, in­

creasing in size, extended its circumference beyond

the circle. At Arpinum, in a level plain, the earth

sunk into a vast gulf. When one of the consuls sa­

crificed the first victims, the head of the liver was

wanting. These prodigies were expiated by the

greater victims, the college of pontiffs directing to

what gods the sacrifices should be made.

3. As soon as this business was finished, the consuls

and pretors set out for their respective provinces.

They directed their chief attention to Africa, as if it

were allotted to them, either because they saw that

the grand interests of their country, and of the war,

depended on the proceedings there, or from a desire

