HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXIX. 209

omen is pleasing; steer your ships thither.' The fleet

ran down accordingly, and all the forces were disem­

barked. I am inclined to follow the accounts of very

many Greek and Latin authors; which are, that the

voyage was prosperous, and without danger or con­

fusion. Coelius alone (except that he does not repre­

sent the ships as being lost) gives a narration of every

other dreadful occurrence, which could be occasioned

by wind or waves; that, at last, the fleet was driven

from Africa to the island jEgimurus ; that from thence,

with difficulty, they recovered their course; and that

the men had, without orders from the general, escaped

to land in boats from the almost foundering vessels,

just, in short, as from a shipwreck, without arms and

in the utmost disorder.

28. The troops being landed, formed their camp on

the nearest rising grounds. The sight of the fleet, with

the bustle of landing, spread consternation and terror,

not only through the parts adjoining the sea, but even

among the cities: for not only crowds of women and

children, mixing with the bands of men, filled up all

the roads, but the country people also drove their

cattle before them, so that it seemed as if they were all

at once forsaking Africa. Those caused much greater

terror in the cities than they had felt themselves, par­

ticularly at Carthage, where the tumult was almost as

great as though the enemy were at its gates; for, since

the consulate of Marcus Attilius Regulus and Lucius

Manlius, a space of nearly fifty years, they had seen

no Roman army, except those predatory squadrons,

from which some troops had made descents on the ad­

joining coast, seizing whatever chance threw in their

way, but who had always made a hasty retreat to their

ships, and before the peasantry had taken the alarm:

for this reason, the consternation and panic was now

the greater; and, in fact, they had neither a powerful

army at home, nor a general whom they could oppose

to the invaders. Hasdrubal, son of Gisgo, was by far

the first person in the city, not only in character and

wealth, but also by reason of his affinity with the king.

liv. vol. v. o

