388 LIVY.

tages should be confined within doors, and not at any

time allowed the liberty of going into public; and

that the prisoners should be kept bound with fetters,

of not less than ten pounds weight, and confined in the

common jail.

27. In this year ambassadors from king Attalus

made an offering, in the capitol, of a golden crown of

two hundred and fifty-six pounds weight, and returned

thanks to the senate, because Antiochus, complying

with the requisitions of the Romans, had withdrawn

his troops out of Attalus' territories. During this

summer two hundred horsemen, ten elephants, and

two hundred thousand pecks of wheat, were furnished

by king Masinissa to the army in Greece. From Sicily

also, and Sardinia, large supplies of provisions were

sent, with clothing for the troops. Sicily was then

governed by Marcus Marcellus, Sardinia by Marcus

Porcius Cato, a man of acknowleged integrity and pu­

rity of conduct, but deemed too severe in punishing

usury. He drove the usurers intirely out of the

island; and restricted or abolished the contributions,

usually paid by the allies, for maintaining the dignity

of the pretors. The consul, Sextus jElins, coming

home from Gaul to Rome to hold the elections, elected

consuls, Caius Cornelius Cethegus and Quintus Minu-

cius Rufus. Two days after was held the election of

pretors; and this year, for the first time, six pretors

were appointed, in consequence of the increase of the

provinces, and the extension of the bounds of the em­

pire. The persons elected were Lucius Manlius Vulso,

Caius Sempronius Tuditanus, Marcus Sergius Silus,

Marcus Helvius, Marcus Minucius Rufus, and Lucius

Atilius. Of these Sempronius and Helvius were at

the time plebeian ediles. The curule ediles were

Quintus Minucius Thermus, and Tiberius Sempronius

Longus. The Roman games were four times repeated

during this year.

28. When the new consuls, Caius Cornelius and

Quintus Minucius, entered into office [A. U. C. 555.

B.C. 197], the chief business was the adjusting of the

