HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXX. 229

4. In the retinue of the embassy to Syphax he sent,

instead of the common attendants, centurions of the

first rank, of approved courage and prudence, dressed

as servants; who, while the ambassadors were engaged

in conference, might ramble through the camp, and

observe all the approaches and outlets; the situation

and form, both of the whole and of the several parts of

it; where the Carthaginians lay, where the Numidians; .

what distance there was between Hasdrubal's station

and the king's; and, at the same time, discover their

method of fixing outposts and watches, and whether

they were more open to surprise by night or by day.

Many conferences being held, care was taken to send

different persons at different times, in order that the

greater number might be acquainted with every cir­

cumstance. These frequent conversations had led Sy­

phax, and through him the Carthaginians, to entertain

daily more confident expectations of a peace, when the

Roman ambassadors told him that 'they were ordered

not to return to the general without a definitive an­

swer; therefore, if his own determination was fixed,

he should declare it; or if Hasdrubal and the Cartha­

ginians were to be consulted, he should do it without

delay. It was time that either the terms of peace

should be adjusted, or the war carried on with vigor.'

While Syphax was consulting Hasdrubal, and Has­

drubal the Carthaginians, the spies bad time to take a

view of every thing, and Scipio also to make the pre­

parations necessary to his design. From the mention

of accommodation, and their expectation of it, the

Carthaginians and Numidians took not the necessary

precautions against any attempt which the enemy might

make. At length an answer was returned, in which,

as the Romans appeared exceedingly anxious for peace,

the Carthaginians took the opportunity of adding some

unreasonable conditions, which afforded a plausible

pretence to Scipio, who now wished to break the truce.

Accordingly, telling the king's messenger that 'he

would take the opinion of his council on the affair,'

he answered him next day, that ' he alone had labored

