266 LIVY.

both from prosperity and adversity, that I wish to fol­

low reason rather than fortune. But your early time

of life and uninterrupted flow of prosperity, both apt

to inspire a degree of warmth ill suited to peaceful

plans, excite in my mind very serious apprehensions.

He whom fortune has never deceived, rarely considers

the uncertainty of future events. What I was at Thra-

symenus and at Cannae, that you are at present. Ap­

pointed to a command at an age scarcely fit for service,

though your enterprises were of the boldest nature,

you were ever successful. By avenging the death of

your father and uncle, you acquired a distinguished

character for uncommon bravery and filial duty. You

recovered Spain, which had been lost, and drove out of

it four Carthaginian armies. On being elected consul,

when others wanted spirit sufficient to defend Italy,

you passed into Africa, and, by there destroying two

armies, by taking and burning two camps in one hour,

by making a captive of Syphax, a most powerful king,

and by seizing on so many of his cities, and so many

of ours, you compelled me to relinquish the possession

of Italy, which I had continued to hold for sixteen

years. Perhaps your wishes tend rather to conquest

than to peace. I know the spirit of you Romans, that

it ever aims at grand rather than useful objects. For­

tune once shone on me with the same benign counte­

nance. But if, along with prosperity, the gods would

grant us a sound judgment, we should consider not

only what had already happened, but what may pos­

sibly happen hereafter. Although you should forget

all other instances, I am a sufficient example of every

kind of fortune. Me, whom you formerly saw pitching

my camp between the Anio and your city, and on the

point of scaling the walls of Rome, you now behold

here, under the walls of my native city, which is threat­

ened with a siege; deprived of my two brothers, gene­

rals of consummate skill and valor ; deprecating, in be­

half of my own city, those calamities by which formerly

I struck terror into yours. The most exalted state of

fortune is ever the least to be relied on. A peace con-

