HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXXI. 349

might have limited the decree in such a manner, that

not the pretor, but the consul, should have the manage­

ment of it: or else the consul had acted wrong, who after

ordering the army to remove from Etruria into Gaul,

did not meet it at Ariminum, in order to be present at

operations, which were not allowed to be performed

without him. But the exigences of war do not wait for

the delays and procrastinations of commanders; and

battles must be sometimes fought, not because com­

manders choose it, but because the enemy compels it.

The fight itself, and the issue of the fight, is what ought

to be regarded now. The enemy were routed and slain,

their camp taken and plundered, the colony relieved

from a siege, the prisoners taken from the other colony

recovered and restored to their friends, and an end

put to the war in one battle. And not only men re­

joiced at this victory, but the immortal gods also had

supplications paid to them for the space of three days,

on account of the business of the state having been

wisely and successfully, not rashly and unfortunately,

conducted by Lucius Furius, pretor. Besides, the

Gallic wars were, by some fatality, destined to the

Furian family.'

49. By means of discourses of this kind, made by

him and his friends, the interest of the pretor, who

was present, prevailed over the respect due to the

dignity of the absent consul, and the majority decreed

a triumph to Lucius Furius. Lucius Furius, pretor,

during his office triumphed over the Gauls. He carried

into the treasury three hundred and twenty thousand

asses,i and one hundred and seventy thousand pounds'

weight of silver. There were neither any prisoners

led before his chariot, nor spoils carried before him,

nor did any soldiers follow him. It appeared that

every thing except the victory belonged to the consul.

Publius Scipio then celebrated in a magnificent man­

ner the games which he had vowed when consul in

i 1033/. 6s. 8d.

