HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXVIII. 97

Thebes in Phthiotis, who, when their own was taken

by the Macedonian, had fled for protection to the

./Etolians, and had obtained from them a settlement in

this place, which had been laid waste and deserted in

the former war with the same Philip. After recover­

ing Thronium in the manner related, he continued bis

route; and, haying taken Tritonos and Drymae, incon­

siderable towns of Doris, he came thence to Elatia,

where he had ordered the ambassadors of Ptolemy

and the Rhodians to wait for him. While they were

deliberating there on the method of putting an end to

the jEtolian war, (for the ambassadors had been pre­

sent at the late assembly of the Romans and JStolians

at Heraclea,) news was brought that Machanidas

intended to attack the people of Elis while they

were busied in preparations for solemnising the Olym­

pic games. Judging it incumbent on him to prevent

such an attempt, he dismissed the ambassadors with a

favorable answer, that ' he had neither given cause for

the war, nor would give any obstruction to a peace,

provided it could be procured on just and honorable

terms:' then, proceeding through Boeotia by quick

marches, he came down to Megara, and from thence

to Corinth; and, receiving there supplies of provision,

repaired to Phlius and Pheneus. When he had ad­

vanced as far as Heraea, intelligence was brought him

that Machanidas, terrified at the account of his ap­

proach, had retreated to Lacedaemon; on which he

withdrew to yEgium, where the Achaeans were assem­

bled in council, expecting at the same time to meet

there a Carthaginian fleet which he had sent for, in

order that he might be able to undertake some enter­

prise by sea. But the Carthaginians had left that

place a few days before, and were gone to the Oxean

islands, and from thence, (on hearing that the Romans

and Attalns had left Oreum,) to the harbors of the

Acarnanians; for they apprehended that an attack

was intended against themselves, and that they might

be overpowered while within the straits of Rhios (so

the entrance of the Corinthian bay is called).

LIV. VOL. V. G

