98 livv.

8. Philip was filled with grief and vexation when he

found that, although he had, on all occasions, made

the most spirited and speedy exertions, yet fortune

had haffled his activity, by snatching away every ad­

vantage when he had it within his view. In the as­

sembly, however, concealing his chagrin, he spoke

with great confidence, appealing to gods and men, that

'at no time or place had he ever been remiss; that

wherever the sound of the enemy's arms was heard,

thither he had instantly repaired; but that it could

hardly be determined whether, in the management of

the war, his forwardness or the enemy's cowardice was

more conspicuous; in such a dastardly manner had

Attains slipped out of his hands from Opus; Sulpicius

from Chalcis; and in the same way within these few

days, Machanidas. That flight however did not al­

ways succeed; and that a war should not be accounted

difficult, in which victory would be certain if the foe

could be brought to a regular engagement. One ad­

vantage, however, and that of the first magnitude, he

had already acquired—the confession of the enemy

themselves that they were not a match for him; and

in a short time,' he said, ' he should have to boast of

undoubted conquest; for whenever the enemy would

meet him in the field, they should find the issue no

better than they seemed to expect.' This discourse of

the king was received by the allies with great plea­

sure. He then gave up to the Achaeans Heraea and

Triphylia. Aliphera he restored to the Megalopoli-

tans, they having produced sufficient evidence that it

belonged to their territories. Having received some

vessels from the Achaeans, three galleys of four, and

three of two banks of oars, he sailed to Anticyra;

from thence, with seven ships of five banks, and above

twenty barks, which he had sent to the bay of Corinth

to join the Carthaginian fleet, he proceeded to Erythrae,

a town of the jEtolians near Eupalium, and there

made a descent. He was not unobserved by the Mio-

lians; for all who were either in the fields, or in the

neighboring forts of Apollonia and Potidania, fled to

