212 LIVY.

to his own and his father's friends, about five hundred

Numidians assembled about him. He then sent back

the Moors according to his engagement; and although

the numbers that joined him were short of his expecta­

tions, and not such as might encourage him to under­

take an affair of moment; yet, believing that by enter­

ing on action, and making some effort, he should gather

strength for a more important enterprise, he threw

himself in the way of the young king Lacumaces, as he

was going to Syphax at Thapsus. The attendants of

Lacumaces flying back in consternation, Masinissa took

the city at the first assault, received the submission of

some of the king's party who surrendered, and slew

others who attempted to resist; but the greatest part

of them, with the boy himself, escaped during the

tumult to Thapsus, whither they had at first intended

to go. The success of Masinissa in this small exploit,

and on the first commencement of his operations, drew

the regards of the Numidians towards him, while the

old soldiers of Gala flocked from all parts of the coun­

try and the towns, inviting the young prince to proceed

to the recovery of his father's kingdom. Mezetulus

was superior in number of men; for, besides the army

with which he had conquered Capusa, he was strength­

ened by some troops who had submitted, after the king

was slain ; the boy Lacumaces having likewise brought

succors from Syphax. Mezetulus had fifteen thousand

foot, ten thousand horse, with whom Masinissa engaged

in battle, though much inferior in number. The valor,

however, of the veteran soldiers prevailed, aided by the

skill of their leader, who had gained experience in the

war between the Romans and Carthaginians. The

young king, with his guardian and a small body of

Massylians, escaped into the territories of the Cartha­

ginians. Masinissa thus recovered his father's throne;

yet, foreseeing that he should have a much more

severe struggle to maintain against Syphax, he thought

it best to come to a reconciliation with his cousin-ger-

man. Proper persons were accordingly sent to give

Lacumaces hopes that if he put himself under the pro-

