HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXVIII. Ill

linued to fight, they quickly turned their backs, and

all betook themselves to a hasty flight. They halted

however for a time at the foot of the hills, endeavoring

to restore order, while the Romans hesitated to ad­

vance their line against the opposite steep. But, when

they saw the battalions pressing forward briskly, they

renewed their flight, and were driven in a panic within

their works. The Romans were not far from the ram­

part; and continuing their efforts, had nearly sur­

mounted it, when such a quantity of rain poured sud­

denly down, that it was with difficulty they regained

their camp. The sun, too, had been excessively hot,

as is usually the case when shining forth from among

clouds surcharged with water; which added greatly to

the fatigues of the day. Some were even seized with

a religious scruple against attempting any thing farther

at that time. Though both night and the rain invited

the Carthaginians to take the repose so necessary to

them, yet fear and the impending danger would not

admit of it; and as they had reason to expect an as­

sault from the enemy at the first light, they raised the

height of the rampart with stones collected from the

adjacent valleys, endeavoring to secure themselves by

fortifications, since they found no protection in their

arms. But the desertion of their allies soon gave them

reason to think that it was the safer way to fly. The

beginning of this revolt arose from Attanes, prince of

the Turdetans, who deserted with a great number of

his countrymen; and afterwards, two fortified towns,

with their garrisons, were delivered to the Romans by

their commanders. Hasdrubal, dreading, since a dis­

position to throw off the Carthaginian yoke had onoe

seized their minds, that the evil might spread farther,

decamped during the silence of the ensuing night.

16. At the first light, the outgitards having brought

intelligence of the enemy's departure, Scipio, sending

forward the cavalry, gave orders to the army to march;

and these were executed with such expedition that,

bad they directly pursued the track of the fugitives,

they had certainly overtaken them; but they were

