HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXVII. 85

senate from their house; and the people thronged to­

gether with such impatience and tumult to the door,

that the messenger could not approach, but was

dragged about amid a multitude of questions, and all

demanding, with much vociferation, that the letter

should be read from the rostrum even before it was

submitted to the senate. At length they were reduced

to order by the magistrates, and obliged to make room,

that the joyful tidings might be regularly imparted to

the public, who were unable to govern their trans­

ports. The dispatch was accordingly read, first in

the senate, then in the assembly of the people; some

embracing the joyful news as certain, while others

refused to credit any thing until they should hear it

from the deputies, or the letters of the consuls.

51. After some time an account was brought that

deputies were really coming, and not far off. On this,

people of all ages ran out eagerly to meet them, each

coveting to receive, from his own eyes and ears, con­

vincing proofs of the reality of such a happy event.

One continued train reached all the way to the Mul-

vian bridge: the deputies were, Lucius VeturiusPhilo,

Publius Licinius Varus, and Quintus Caecilius Me-

tellus. Surrounded by a vast multitude of every sort,

they went on to the forum, while some inquired of

them, others of their attendants, concerning what had

been done; and as soon as any one heard that the

enemy's general and army had been cut off, that the

Roman legions were safe, and the consuls unhurt, he

immediately communicated his own joy to others.

When the deputies had, with much difficulty, reached

the senate-house, and the crowd was, with much

greater difficulty, obliged to retire, that they might

not mix with the senators, the letters were read in the

senate; and then the deputies were brought out into

the general assembly. Lucius Veturius, after reading

the dispatches, gave, in bis own words, a fuller detail

of all that had passed; which was heard with the

greatest delight, and was at last followed by a uni­

versal shout from the whole assembly, who were un­

