306 LIVY.

meeting success in either engagement. But, besides

the natural presumptuousness of his temper, he ac­

quired confidence from a treaty which he had formed

with Antiochus, king of Syria, in which they had di­

vided the wealth of Egypt between them; an object

which, on hearing of the death of Ptolemy, they were

both eager to secure. As to the Athenians, they had

entangled themselves in a war with Philip on too tri­

fling an occasion, and at a time when they retained

nothing of their ancient dignity but pride. During

the celebration of the mysteries, two young men of

Acarnania, who were not initiated, unapprised of its

being an offence against religion, entered the temple

of Ceres along with the rest of the crowd: their dis­

course quickly betrayed them, by their asking ques­

tions which discovered their ignorance; whereon, be­

ing carried before the presidents of the temple, although

it was evident that they went in through mistake, yet

they were put to death, as if for a heinous crime. The

Acarnanian nation made complaint to Philip of this

barbarous and hostile act, and prevailed on him to

grant them some aid of Macedonian soldiers, and to

allow {hem to make war on the Athenians. At first

this army, after ravaging the lands of Attica with fire

and sword, retired to Acarnania with booty of all

kinds. This was the first provocation to hostilities.

The Athenians afterwards, on their side, entered into

a regular war, and proclaimed it by order of the state:

for king Attalus and the Rhodians, having come to

JEgina in pursuit of Philip, who was retiring to Mace­

donia, the king crossed over to Piraeus, for the purpose

of renewing and strengthening the alliance between

him and the Athenians. On entering the city he was

received by the whole inhabitants, who poured forth

with their wives and children to meet him; by the

priests, with their emblems of religion; and in a man­

ner by the gods themselves, called forth from their

abodes.

15. Immediately the people were summoned to an

assembly, that the king might treat with them in per­

son on such subjects as he chose; but afterwards it

