43 LIVY.

of two hundred sail. The business of Sicily was di­

vided thus: the troops of Cannas were given to Sextus

Caesar; Marcus Valerius Laevinus (for he also was

continued in authority) was to have the fleet of seventy

ships, which lay on the coast of that island. To these

were joined the thirty ships which had been at Taren-

tum the year before; and with this fleet of one hun­

dred sail, if he thought proper, he was to pass over

and make depredations on Africa. Publius Sulpicius,

also, was continued in command for the year, that he

might hold the province of Macedonia and Greece with

the same fleet which he had before. With respect to

the two legions which remained in the city of Rome,

no alteration was made. Leave was given for the con­

suls to raise recruits, to complete the troops wherein.

there was any deficiency of numbers. Twenty-one le­

gions were employed this year in the service of the

Roman empire. A charge was given to Publius Lici-

nius Varus, city pretor, to repair thirty old ships of

war, which lay at Ostia, and to furnish twenty new

ones, with their full complement of men, that he might

have a fleet of fifty sail to guard the sea coasts in the

neighborhood of Rome. Cains Calpurnius was for­

bidden to remove his army from Arretium before the

arrival of his successor. Both he and Tubero were

ordered to be particularly watchful on that side, lest

any new schemes might be formed.

23. The pretors went to the provinces, but the con­

suls were detained by business respecting religion;

for they could not readily effect the expiation of se­

veral prodigies which had been reported. From Cam­

pania accounts were brought that two temples at Ca­

pua, those of Fortune and Mars, and several tombs,

were struck by lightning; and at Cumw, mice gnawed

some gold in the temple of Jupiter; so apt is supersti­

tious weakness to introduce the deities into the most

trivial occurrences; that at Casinum, a very large

swarm of bees settled in the forum; at Ostia, a wall

and gate were struck by lightning; at Caere, a vulture

flew into the temple of Jupiter; and that at Vulsinii

