HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXXI. 339

ing beset on all sides by so many nations, was in danger

of being invested by sea also.

41. These reasons had brought back Damocritus and

the jEtolians to the interest of the Romans. Marching

out, therefore, in conjunction with Amynander, king

of the Athamanians, they laid siege to Cercinium. The

inhabitants here had shut their gates, whether of their

own choice or by compulsion is unknown, as they had

a garrison of the king's troops. However, in a few

days, Cercinium was taken and burned ; and after great

, slaughter had been made, those who survived, both

free men and slaves, were carried off amongst other

spoil. This caused such terror, as made all those

who dwelt round the lake Boebius abandon their cities,

and fly to the mountains: and the jEtolians not find­

ing booty, turned away from thence, and proceeded

into Perrhaebia. There they took Cyretias by storm,

and sacked it without mercy. The inhabitants of Mal-

loea, making a voluntary submission, were received

into alliance. From Perrhaebia, Amynander advised

to march to Gomphi, because that city lies close to

Athamania, and there was reason to think that it might

be reduced without any great difficulty. But the jEto-

lians, for the sake of plunder, directed their march to

the rich plains of Thessaly, Amynander following,

though he did not approve either of their careless

method of carrying on their depredations, or of their

pitching their camp in any place where chance di­

rected, without choice, and without taking any care to

fortify it. Therefore, lest their rashness and negli­

gence might be the cause of some misfortune to him­

self and his troops, when he saw them forming their

camp in low grounds, under the city Phecadus, he

took possession, with his own troops, of an eminence

about five hundred paces distant, which could be ren­

dered secure by a slight fortification. The jEtolians

seemed to have forgotten that they were in an enemy's

country, excepting that they continued to plunder,

some straggling in small parties without arms, others

spending whole days and nights in drinking and sleep­

