HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXIX. 173

Africa, and the siege of Carthage; and when they

possessed not by any means such a degree of strength

as the Romans had enjoyed to support them under

those calamities. The latter had received, from the

commonalty of Rome, and from Latium, continually

increasing supplies of young men in the room of so

many legions destroyed: but the citizens of Carthage

were unwarlike, and equally so in the country. Auxi­

liaries, indeed, they had procured for pay from among

the Africans; but they were a faithless race, and veer­

ing about with every blast of fortune. Then, as to the

kings: Sypfaax, since his conference with Scipio, was

apparently estranged from them: Masinissa had openly

renounced their alliance, and was become their most

inveterate enemy; so that they had no hope, no sup­

port on any side. Neither did Mago raise any com­

motions on the side of Gaul, nor join his forces to

Hannibal's: and Hannibal himself was now declining

both in reputation and strength.' Their minds, which,

in consequence of the late news, had sunk into these

desponding reflections, were again recalled, by dread

of the impending evils, to consult how they might op­

pose the present dangers. They resolved to levy

soldiers with all haste, both in the city and the coun­

try; to hire auxiliaries from the Africans ; to strengthen

the forts; to collect oorn; to prepare weapons and ar­

mor; to fit out ships, and send them to Hippo against the

Roman fleet. While they were thus employed, news at

length arrived that it was Laelius, and not Scipio, who

had come over; that his forces were no more than what

were sufficient to make plundering incursions; and that

the main force of the enemy was still in Sicily. Thus

they got time to breathe, and began to despatch em­

bassies to Syphax and the other princes, to endeavor

to strengthen their alliances. They also sent to Philip,

with a promise of two hundred talents of silver,i on con­

dition that he invaded Sicily or Italy. Others were

sent to Italy, to their two generals there, with orders

"38,750(,

