72 LIVY.

42. Hannibal bad not yet come out of bis camp,

when he heard the shouts of the troops engaged:

alarmed at this, he led his forces with all speed to足

wards the enemy. The charge of the Roman cavalry

had already distressed his van, and, of their infantry, the

first legion and the right wing were coming into action,

while the Carthaginians, without any regular order,

began the fight just as chance threw each in the way of

either horseman or footman. The combatants on both

sides were sustained by reinforcements; and Hanni足

bal, in the midst of the terror and tumult, would have

formed his line while fighting, which is no easy matter,

unless to a veteran commander, and in the case of ve足

teran troops, but that the shout of the cohorts and

companies, running down from the hills, and which

was heard on their rear, struck them with the fear of

being cut off from their camp; and had it not been

near, (seized as they were with a panic, and flying in

every part,) very great numbers would have been

slain: for the cavalry stuck close to their rear, and

the cohorts, running down the declivity of the hills,

over clear and level ground, assailed them in flank.

However, upwards of eight thousand men were killed,

more than seven hundred men made prisoners, and

nine military standards were taken. Even of the ele足

phants, which in such a sudden and irregular action

had been of no use, four were killed, and two taken.

Of the Romans and their allies there fell about five

hundred. Next day the Carthaginian kept himself

quiet. The Roman brought his army into the field,

and when he saw that none came out to meet him, he

ordered the spoils of the slain to be collected, and the

bodies of his own men to be brought together and

buried. After this, for several successive days, he

pushed up so close to the enemy's gates, that he

seemed to intend an assault; but, at length, Hannibal

decamped, at the third watch of the night, and made

towards Apulia, leaving a great number of fires and

tents on the side of the camp which faced the enemy,

and a few Numidians, who were to show themselves

