HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXVIII. 105

those colonies; and then, in the beginning of the spring,

they set out to carry on the war. Quintus Ciecilius,

consul, received his army from Caius Nero; Lucius

Veturius, his from Quintus Claudius, propretor, he

filling it up with the new levies which himself had

raised. They led their forces into the territory of

Consentia. Here, having made great ravages, the

troops, now loaded with spoil, were thrown into such

confusion, in a narrow pass, by some Bruttians and

Numidian spearmen, that not only that spoil but them­

selves were in extreme danger. However, there was

more tumult than fighting; the booty was sent for­

ward, and the legions without loss made their way to

places of safety. From thence they advanced against

the Lucanians, which whole nation returned without a

contest into subjection to the Roman people.

12. No action took place during that year between

them and Hannibal; for the Carthaginian, after the

deep wound so lately given both to his own private

and to the public welfare, cautiously avoided throwing

himself in their way; and the Romans did not choose

to rouse him from his inactivity: such powers did they

suppose that leader possessed of, in his single person,

though all things round him were falling into ruin.

In truth, I know not whether he was more deserving

of admiration in adversity or in prosperity; consider­

ing that, though he carried on war for thirteen years,

and that in an enemy's territory so far from home,

with various success, with an army not composed of

his own countrymen, but made up of the refuse of all

nations, who had neither law, nor custom, nor language

in common; who were of different stature, had dif­

ferent garb, different arms, different rites, and almost

different gods; yet he so bound them together by some

common tie, that neither among themselves nor against

their commander did any sedition ever appear, al­

though, in a hostile country, he often wanted both mo­

ney to pay them and provisions also,—wants which, in

the former Punic war, had occasioned many distress­

ful scenes between the generals and their men. Butt

