HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXVIII. 135

tendants. During these transactions on the Baetis,

Laelius, sailing through the strait, came with the fleet

to Carteja, a city situated on the coast, and where the

sea begins to expand itself. There had been hopes of

gaining possession of Gades without a contest, by

means of a conspiracy of the inhabitants, some of

whom came of their own accord to the Roman camp

with promises to that effect, as has been mentioned

before; but the plot was discovered before it was ripe;

and Mago having seized all the conspirators, gave

them in charge to Adherbal the pretor, to be con­

ducted to Carthage. Adherbal put them on board a

ship of five banks, and sending it off before him, be­

cause it sailed slower than any one of three banks,

followed himself at a small distance with eight three-

banked vessels. The quinquereme was justenteringthe

strait, when Laelius, who had sailed in a quinquereme

also from the harbor of Carteja, attended by seven

triremes, bore down on Adherbal and the triremes;

taking for granted that the quinquereme, once caught

in the rapid current of the narrow pass, would not be

able to tack about. The Carthaginian, alarmed by

this unexpected affair, hesitated for some time whether

he should follow the quinquereme, or face the enemy.

This delay put it out of his power to avoid an engage­

ment, for they were already within a weapon's cast,

and the Roman pressing him closely on all sides. The

force of the stream, too, had rendered it impossible to

manage their ships; nor was the fight like a naval en­

gagement, for nothing was effected either by skill or

prudence. The tide, indeed, might be said to have

the intire command, for it bore them down, sometimes

on their own, sometimes on the Roman vessels, while

they were endeavoring in vain to row in a contrary

direction; so that a ship which was flying might be

seen whirled round by an eddy, and carried full

against the conqueror; while another, engaged in pur­

suit, if it happened to fall into a contrary current,

would be turned about as if for flight. Thus one ship

aiming a violent stroke of its beak against the hull of

