HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXXII. 355

old under arms in Sicily, Africa, and Macedonia; they

were now, in short, worn out with labor and fatigue, and

had lost the best part of their blood by the many

wounds which they had received.' The consul told

them, that ' the grounds on which they demanded their

discharge appeared to him to be reasonable, if the de­

mand had been made in a moderate manner; but that

neither on that, nor on any other grounds, could mu­

tiny ever be justified. Wherefore, if they were con­

tented to adhere to their standards, and obey orders,

he would write to the senate concerning their release;

and that what they desired would more easily be ob­

tained by modest behavior than by turbulence.'

4. At this time, Philip was pushing on the siege of

Thaumaci, with the utmost vigor, by means of mounds

and engines, and was ready to bring up the ram to

the walls, when he was obliged to relinquish the un­

dertaking by the sudden arrival of the jEtolians, who,

under the command of Archidamus, having made their

way into the town between the posts of the Macedo­

nians, never ceased, day or night, making continual

sallies, sometimes against the guards, sometimes against

the works. They were at the same time favored by

the nature of the place; for Thaumaci stands near the

road from ThermopylEe, and the Malian bay, through

Lamia, on a lofty eminence, hanging immediately over

the narrow pass called Caele. After passing through

the craggy grounds of Thessaly, the roads are ren­

dered intricate by the windings of the valleys, and on

the near approach to the city, such an immense plain

opens at once to view, like a vast sea, that the eye can

scarcely reach the bounds of the expanse beneath.

From this surprising prospect it was called Thaumaci.

The city itself is secured, not only by the height of its

situation, but by its standing on a rock, from the sides

of which, all round, the projecting parts had been

pared off. In consequence of these difficulties, and

the prize not appearing sufficient to recompense so

much toil and danger, Philip desisted from the at­

tempt. The winter also was approaching; he there-

