HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXIX. 205

and what number of men he should carry to Africa;

with orders also to all the sea-coast that the ships of

burden should be all seized, and brought thither.

When the troops and vessels had assembled at Lily-

baeum, neither could the city contain the men, nor the

harbor the ships; and such an ardent desire to pass

into Africa possessed them all, that they appeared, not

as if going to be employed in war, but in receiving the

rewards of victory already secured; especially those of

the army of Cannae; for they expected, by exerting

themselves on the present occasion, and under the

then general, to put an end to their ignominious ser­

vice. Scipio showed not the least inclination to re­

ject soldiers of that description, knowing that the mis­

fortune at Cannae had not arisen from their want of

spirit, and that, besides, there were none in the Ro­

man army who had served so long, or who had ac­

quired so much experience, both in a variety of battles,

and in attacking towns. The legions of Cannse were

the fifth and sixth. After giving notice that he would

carry these to Africa, he reviewed them, man by man,

and leaving behind such as he thought unfit for the

service, he substituted in their places those whom he

had brought from Italy, and filled up those legions

in such a manner, that each contained six thousand

two hundred foot, and three hundred horse; the horse

and foot of the allies, of the Latine confederacy, he

chose also out of the army of Cannae.

25. Authors differ widely with regard to the number

of men carried over to Africa. In one I find ten

thousand foot, and two thousand two hundred horse;

in another sixteen thousand foot, and one thousand six

hundred horse; while others augment them more than

half, and assert that thirty-five thousand horse and

foot were put on board the ships. Some have not

stated the numbers; and among these, as the matter is

uncertain, I choose to place myself. Coelius, indeed,

avoids specifying the same; but he magnifies to an im­

mense extent the idea that he gives of their multitude:

he tells us that birds fell to the ground, stunned by the

