HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXXI. 299

tachment to the Carthaginians, which they had formed

during the war, and in consequence, swelling with re­

sentment. The state was to employ during that year

six Roman legions.

9. In the midst of the preparations for war ambassa­

dors came from king Ptolemy, with the following mes­

sage :—that' the Athenians had petitioned the king for

aid against Philip; but that although they were their

common allies, yet the king would not, without the

direction of the Roman people, send either fleet or

army into Greece, for the purpose of defending or at­

tacking any person: that he would remain quiet in his

kingdom, if the Romans were at leisure to protect their

allies; or, if more agreeable to them to be at rest,

would himself send such aid as should effectually se­

cure Athens against Philip.' Thanks were returned

to the king by the senate, and this answer:—that ' it

was the intention of the Roman people to protect their

allies: that if they should have occasion for any assist­

ance towards carrying on the war, they would acquaint

the king; and that they were fully sensible that, in the

power of his kingdom, their state had a sure and faith­

ful resource.' Presents were then, by order of the

senate, sent to the ambassadors, of five thousand asses i

to each. While the consuls were employed in levying

troops, and making other necessary preparations, the

people, prone to religious observances, especially at

the beginning of new wars, after supplications had been

already performed, and prayers offered up at all the

shrines, lest any thing should be omitted that had ever

been practised, ordered that the consul who was to

have the province of Macedonia should vow games,

and a present to Jove. Licinius, the chief pontiff, oc­

casioned some delay in the performance of it, alleging

that ' he could not properly frame the vow, unless the

money to discharge it were specified: for as the sum

to be named could not be applied to the uses of the

war, it should be immediately set apart, and not to be

> 16(. 2s. Id.

