56 LIVY.

behavior; for, laying aside his diadem, purple robe,

and other royal apparel, he set himself, with respect to

appearance, on a level with the rest; than which no­

thing can be more grateful to the people of free states.

This conduct would have afforded very strong hopes

of general liberty had he not debased and dishonored

all by intolerable debauchery: for, night and day, with

one or two attendants, he ranged through the houses of

married people. He had lowered his dignity to the

common level, consequently the less conspicuous he

appeared the less restraint he was under; and thus the

liberty of which he had given others an empty pros­

pect, he stretched to the utmost in the gratification of

his own unlawful desires. Money and seductive dis­

courses were not always sufficient for his purposes; he

even employed violence in aid of them, and dangerous

was it for husbands and parents to show inflexible

strictness in obstructing the brutal passions of the

king. He took from Aratus (a man of distinction

among the Achaeans) his wife, named Polycratia; and,

deluding her with the hope of being married to a so­

vereign prince, carried her into Macedonia. After

spending the time of the celebration of the games, and

several days after they were finished, in this scanda­

lous manner, he marched to Dymae, with design to

dislodge a garrison of the jEtolians, who had been

invited by the Eleans, and received into that city.

At Dyma? he was joined by the Achssans, under Cy-

cliades their chief magistrate, who were inflamed with

hatred against the Eleans, because they refused to unite

with the other states of Achaia, and highly incensed

against the jEtolians, whom they believed to be the

authors of the war carried on against them by the

Romans. Leaving Dymas, and uniting their forces,

they passed the river Larissus, which separates the

territory of Elis from that of Dymes.

32. The first day on which they entered the enemy's

borders they spent in plundering. On the next, they

advanced to the city in order of battle, having sent

forward the cavalry, to ride up to the gates, and pro­

