182 LIVY.

state that the army of Quintns Caecilius should be dis­

banded, as it could be of no use at present, Hannibal

having already retired into winter quarters; and, be­

sides, so powerful was the distemper in that camp, that

unless they were speedily separated, not one of them

probably would survive.' The senate left it with the

consul to determine those matters, in such manner as

he should judge best for the good of the nation and

his own honor. The city was at that time suddenly

engaged in a consideration respecting religion. Fre­

quent showers of stones having fallen, the Sibylline

books were on that occasion inspected; in which were

found certain verses, importing that ' whensoever a fo­

reign enemy shall have carried war into the land of

Italy, he may be expelled and conquered, if the Idaean

Mother be brought from Pessinus to Rome.' These

verses, discovered by the decemvirs, affected the se­

nate the more, because the ambassadors, who had car­

ried the offering to Delphi, affirmed also that they had

performed sacrifice, and consulted the Pythian Apollo;

and that the oracle had answered that the Romans

would soon obtain a much greater victory than that

which gave them the spoils of which their offering was

composed. They considered as a confirmation of the

same that Scipio's mind was impelled, as it were, by

some presages of an end to the war, when he had so

earnestly insisted on having Africa for his province.

In order, therefore, that they might the sooner ac­

quire the enjoyment of this triumph, portended to

them by the fates, omens, and oracles, they set about

considering how the goddess might be transported to

Rome.

11. The Romans were not in alliance with any of

the states of Asia. However, recollecting that jEscu-

lapius had formerly, on occasion of a pestilence, been

brought from Greece before any connexion with that

country; that they had already commenced a friend­

ship with king Attalus, on account of their being united

in the war against Philip, and that he would probably

do any thing in his power to oblige the Roman people,

