206 LIVY.

shouts of the soldiers: and that it might have been well

imagined that there was not a man left hehind either in

Italy or in Sicily. Scipio took on himself the charge

of embarking the men in a regular manner. The sea­

men were kept in order on board the ships by Caius

Laelius, who had the command of the fleet. The care

of shipping the stores was allotted to Marcus Pompo-

nius, the pretor. A quantity of food sufficient for forty-

five days was put on board: as much of it ready-dressed

as would serve for fifteen days. When all were em­

barked, the general sent round boats to bring the pilots

and masters, with two soldiers out of each ship, to the

forum, to receive orders. Being there assembled, he

first inquired whether they had put water on board for

men and cattle, and for as many days as they had

corn: they answered that there was water on board

for forty-five days. He then charged the soldiers that,

attentive to their duty, they should behave themselves

quietly, so that the seamen might perform their busi­

ness without interruption; informed them that he and

Lucius Scipio, with twenty ships of war, would protect

the transports on the right division ; and Caius Laalius,

commander of the fleet, and Marcus Porcius Cato, the

quest or, with the same number, those on the left: that

the ships of war would carry each a single light, the

transports two; that the signal by night, on board the

ship of the commander-in-chief, would consist of three

lights. The pilots had orders to steer to Emporium,

where the land is remarkably fertile; consequently

the country abounds with plenty of all things. The

inhabitants are unwarlike, as is generally the case

where the soil is rich; and Scipio supposed that they

might be overpowered before succor could arrive from

Carthage. Having issued these orders, he commanded

them to return to their ships, and on the signal being

given next day, with the favor of the gods, to set

sail.

26. Many Roman fleets had sailed from Sicily, and

from that same harbor; but never did any equipment

afford so grand a spectacle, either in the present war

