HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXIX. 199

sians arose from the orders or with the approbation of

Publius Scipio, that they should then command him to

quit the province. If Publius Scipio should have al­

ready passed over into Africa, that in such case the

tribunes of the commons and the edile, with two of the

deputies whom the pretor should judge fittest, should

immediately proceed thither: the tribunes and the

edile to bring back Scipio from thence; the deputies

to command the forces until a new general should be

appointed. But if Marcus Pomponius and the ten

deputies should discover that those severities had not

been committed, either by the order or with the ap­

probation of Publius Scipio, that then Scipio should

remain with the army, and carry on the war as he had

proposed.' A decree of the senate having passed to

this effect, application was made to the tribunes of the

commons to settle among themselves, or choose by lot,

which two were to go with the pretor and deputies.

The college of pontiffs was consulted about the expia­

tions to be performed on account of the spoliation in

the temple of Proserpine at Locri. Marcus Claudius

Marcellus and Marcus Cincius Alimentus, tribunes of

the commons, accompanied the pretor and the ten de­

puties; with whom an edile of the commons was also

sent. The instructions were, that should Scipio (whe­

ther in Sicily or Africa) refuse to obey the orders of

the pretor, the tribunes were to give directions to the

edile to apprehend and bring him home, under the au­

thority of their inviolable office. It was intended that

they should proceed first to Locri, and then to Messana.

21. Concerning Pleminius, there are two different

accounts: some say, that on hearing what had passed

at Rome, he was going to Naples into exile, when he

happened to meet Quintus Metellus, one of the depu­

ties, and was by him forcibly carried back to Rhegium;

others, that Scipio himself had sent a lieutenant-gene­

ral, with thirty of the most distinguished among the

cavalry, to throw Pleminius into chains, and also the

principals in the mutiny. All these, however, either

by the orders of Scipio before, or of the pretor now,

