102 LIVY.

point them consuls for the next year; and that both

.Livius and Nero added their authority to this recom­

mendation, representing next day in the assembly the

bravery and fidelity which the said lieutenants-general

had manifested in the service.

10. When the time of the elections arrived, as it

had been determined that they should be held by a

dictator, the consul Caius Claudius nominated his col­

league Marcus Livius to that office. Livius appointed

Quintus Caecilius master of the horse. By Marcus Li­

vius were elected consuls, Lucius Veturius and Quin­

tus Caecilius, who was then master of the horse. The

election of pretors was next held: there were ap­

pointed Caius Servilius, Marcus Caecilius Metellus,

Tiberius Claudius Asellus, and Quintus Mamilius Tu-

rinus, at that time plebeian edile. When the elections

were finished, the dictator, having laid down his office

and dismissed his army, set out for his province of

Etruria, in pursuance of a decree of the senate, in

order to make inquiries what states of the Tuscans or

Umbrians had, on the approach of Hasdrubal, formed

schemes of revolting to him from the Romans; or who

had afforded him men, provisions, or any kind of aid.

Such were the transactions of that year at home and

abroad. The Roman games were thrice repeated by

the curule ediles, Cneius Servilius Caspio and Servius

Cornelius Lentulus. The plebeian games also were

once repeated intire by the plebeian ediles, Manias

Pomponius Matho and Quintus Mamilius Thurinus.

[A.U. C. 646. B.C. 206.] In the thirteenth year of

the Punic war, when Lucius Veturius Philo and Quin­

tus Cheilius Metellus were consuls, they were both

appointed to the province of Bruttium, to conduct the

war against Hannibal. The pretors then cast lots for

their provinces: the business of the city fell to Mar­

cus Caecilius Metellus; the jurisdiction in relation to

foreigners, to Quintus Mamilius; Sicily, to Caius

Servilius; and Sardinia, to Tiberius Claudius. The

armies were thus distributed: to one of the consuls,

that which had been under Caius Claudius, the consul

of the former year; to the other, that which had been

