162 LIVY.

harassed, enjoy at length some repose: let Africa, in

its turn, feel fire and sword. Let the Roman camp

press on the very gates of Carthage, rather than that

we, a second time, should behold from our walls the

rampart of that of the enemy. Let Africa, in short,

be the seat of the remainder of the war: thither be

removed terror and flight, devastation of lands, revolt

of allies, and all the other calamities with which, for

fourteen years, we have been afflicted. It is sufficient

that I have delivered my sentiments on those matters

which affect the state, the dispute in which we are in­

volved, and the provinces under consideration: my

discourse would be tedious and unsuitable to this au­

dience, if, as Quintus Fabius has depreciated my ser­

vices in Spain, I should, on the other hand, endeavor

in like manner to disparage his glory, and extol my

own. , I shall do neither, conscript fathers; but young

as I am, I will show that I excel that sage, if in no­

thing else, yet certainly in modesty and temperance of

language. Such has been my life and conduct, that I

can, in silence, rest perfectly satisfied with that cha­

racter which your own judgments have formed of me.'

45. Scipio was heard the less favorably on account

of a rumor which prevailed, that if he did not carry

the point in the senate, of having Africa decreed to

him as his province, he was determined immediately

to submit the business to public decision. Therefore

Quintus Fulvius, who had been consul four times, and

censor, demanded of the consul, that he should declare

openly in the senate, whether ' he meant to abide by

the determination of the fathers in regard to the pro­

vinces, or whether he intended to bring the matter be­

fore the people.' Scipio having answered, that he

would act in such a manner as he should deem most

advantageous to the state, Fulvius replied, ' I did not

ask the question through ignorance of what you would

answer, and what you intended to do. It is thus plainly

seen, that you are rather sounding the senate, than

consulting them; and have an order ready to be pro­

posed to the people, if we do not immediately decree

