HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXVII. 63

36. The public anxiety respecting Hasdrnbal's march

into Italy increased daily. At first, envoys from the

Massilians brought information that he had passed

into Gaul, and that the inhabitants of that country

were in high spirits on the occasion; because it was

reported that he had brought a vast quantity of gold

for the purpose of hiring auxiliaries. In company

with these envoys, on their return, were sent from

Rome, Sextus Antistius and Marcus Retius, to inquire

into the matter; who brought back an account that

they had sent persons with Massilian guides, who, by

means of some Gallic chieftains, connected in friend­

ship with the Massilians, might procure exact intel­

ligence of every particular; and that they had dis­

covered with certainty that Hasdrubal, having already

collected a very numerous army, intended to pass

the Alps in the following spring, and that nothing

prevented his doing it immediately, but the passes of

those mountains being shut up by the winter. Publius

jElius Pastus was elected and inaugurated into the

office of augur, in the room of Marcus Marcellus; and

Cneius Cornelius Dolabella into that of king in reli­

gious matters, in the room of Marcus Marcius, who

had died two years before. In this year, the first

time since Hannibal's coming into Italy, the lustrum

was closed by the censors, Publius Sempronius Tudi-

tanus and Marcus Cornelius Cethegus. The number

of citizens rated was one hundred and thirty-seven

thousand one hundred and eight, a number much

smaller than it had been before the war. It is re­

corded that in this same year the comitium was co­

vered, and the Roman games once repeated by the

curule ediles, Quintus Metellus and Caius Servilius;

and the plebeian games twice, by the plebeian ediles,

Quintus Mamilius and Marcus Caecilius Metellus.

These also erected three statues in the temple of Ceres,

and there was a feast of Jupiter on occasion of the

games. [A. U. C. 645. B. C. 207.] Then entered on the

consulship Cains Claudius Nero and Marcus Livius,

