HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXVII. IS*

and there, among the many other important services

which those colonies had performed to them and their

ancestors, to make proper mention of this recent in­

stance of their meritorious conduct towards the com­

monwealth. Even now, and after so many ages, their

names should not be lost in silence, nor should they be

defrauded of their due praise: they were these—Signia,

Norba, Saticulum, Brundusium, Fregellae, Luceria,

Venusia, Atlria, Firma, Ariminum; on the coast of the

other sea, Pontia, Paestum, and Cosa; and in the in­

land parts, Beneventum, jEsernia, Spoletum, Placen-

tia, and Cremona. Supported by these, the Roman

empire was enabled to stand; and they received every

mark of gratitude both in the senate, and in the as­

sembly of the people. The former ordered that no

mention should be made of the other twelve depend­

encies, which had refused to furnish their quota for

the war, and that the consuls should neither dismiss

nor detain their ambassadors, nor hold any communi­

cation with them: such a tacit proof of displeasure was

judged the most suitable to the dignity of the Roman

people. While the consuls were busy in expediting

the other necessary preparations for the campaign, it

was resolved to draw out of the treasury the vicesimary

gold (that is to say, a fund formed of the twentieth

part of the value of slaves enfranchised), which was re­

served for exigences of the utmost necessity. There

was drawn out accordingly, to the amount of four

thousand pounds weight of gold. Of this were given

to the consuls, to Marcus Marcellus and Publius Sul-

picius, proconsuls, and to Lucius Veturius, the pretor,

to whom the lots had given the province of Gaul, five

hundred pounds each; and besides this there were

given, in particular charge, to the consul Fabius, one

hundred pounds of gold to be carried into the citadel

of Tarentum. The remainder they employed in making

contracts, with ready money, for clothing the army,

who were then serving in Spain, with so much honor

to themselves and to their commander.

; 11. It was also resolved, that before the consuls set

