LIVY.

ing in the camp, neglecting even to fix guards, when

Philip unexpectedly came on them. His approach

being announced by those who had fled out of the

fields in a fright, threw Damocritus and the rest of the

officers into great confusion. It happened to be mid­

day, and when most of the men, after a hearty meal,

lay fast asleep. Their officers roused them, however,

as fast as possible; ordered them to take arms; de­

spatched some to recall those who were straggling

through the fields in search of plunder; and so violent

was their hurry, that many of the horsemen went out

without their swords, and but few of them put on their

corslets. After marching out in this precipitate man­

ner, (the whole horse and foot not amounting to six

hundred,) they met the king's cavalry, superior in

number, in spirit, and in arms. They were therefore

routed at the first charge; and, having scarcely at­

tempted resistance, returned to the camp in shameful

flight. Several were slain; and some taken, having

been cut off from the main body of the runaways.

42. Philip, when his troops had advanced almost to

the rampart, ordered a retreat to be sounded, because

both men and horses were fatigued, not so much by

the action, as by the length of their march, and the

extraordinary celerity with which they had made it.

He therefore despatched the horsemen by troops, and

the companies of light infantry in turn, for water;

after which they took refreshment. The rest he kept

on guard, under arms, waiting for the main body of

the infantry, which had marched with less expedition,

on account of the weight of their armor. As soon as

these arrived, they also were ordered to fix their stan­

dards, and, laying down their arms before them, to

take food in haste; sending two, or at most three, out

of each company to provide water. In the mean time

the cavalry and light infantry stood in order, and

ready, in case the enemy should make any motion.

The jEtolians, as if resolved to defend their fortifica­

tions, (the multitude which had been scattered about

the fields having, by this time, returned to the camp,)

