250 . Liyy.

mand of the cavalry, and having ordered them to

mount their horses, led them on instantly to the

charge. The confusion occasioned by these was in­

creased by the shouts of the legions; nor would the

Carthaginian line have stood their ground, bad not

Mago immediately brought up the elephants to the

fight, having kept them in readiness against the

first motion which the horse should make. By the

snorting and sight of these animals, the horses were

frightened to such a degree, as rendered the aid of the

cavalry of no effect. As the Roman horseman had the

advantage in point of strength, when in close fight,

and when he could use his javelin and sword hand to

hand; so the Numidian had the better in darting jave­

lins at him from a distance, and when his horse's fright

would not suffer him to advance. Among the infan­

try, the twelfth legion having lost the greater part of

their number, kept their ground, rather through shame,

than that they had strength to maintain it. They

must soon however have fallen back, had not the thir­

teenth legion, led up from the reserve to the front,

supported the doubtful conflict. Mago at the same

time brought up to oppose this fresh legion the Gauls,

drawn also from his reserve. These being routed

without much difficulty, the spearmen of the eleventh

legion formed themselves into a circular body, and at­

tacked the elephants, which were now throwing the

line of the infantry into confusion; and by discharging

their spears at them, hardly any of which were thrown

in vain, as the beasts were close together they turned

them all on the line of their own party. Four of them,

overpowered with wounds, fell. On this the first line of

the enemy began to give way; when all the infantry,

seeing the elephants turning about, rushed on in order

to increase the terror and confusion. As long how­

ever as Mago stood at the head of the troops, the

ranks, retreating leisurely, kept up the spirit of the

battle; but when they saw him fall on receiving a

wound through his thigh, and carried lifeless out of

the field, instantly all betook themselves to flight.

