264 LIVY.

every particular, he gave them an escort back to Han足

nibal. Hannibal received no pleasure from any of

their accounts. They informed him that Masinissa hap足

pened to arrive that very day with six thousand foot,

and four thousand horse; and he was particularly

struck by the confidence of the enemy, which, he well

knew, was not conceived without reason. Wherefore,

although he was himself the cause of the war, and had,

by his coming, occasioned the violation of the truce,

and the breaking off the negotiations; yet, thinking

that he might obtain-more reasonable terms, by suing-

for peace while his strength was intire, than after being

discomfited, he sent a message to Scipio, requesting a

conference. Whether he took this step on his own

judgment or by the order of the government, I cannot

take on me to affirm. Valerius Antias says that after

he had been defeated by Scipio in the first engagement,

in which twelve thousand fighting men were slain, and

one thousand seven hundred taken, he came as ambas足

sador, with ten others, into the camp to Scipio. Scipio

did not decline the conference; and the two generals,

by concert, moved forward their camps, in order that

they might (he more conveniently meet. Scipio sat

down at a small distance from the city Nedagara, in a

spot every way commodious, besides having water

within a javelin's cast: Hannibal took possession of a

hill, four miles distant; safe and convenient in all re足

spects, except that there was no water near. In the

space between them a spot was chosen open to view

on all sides, that there might be no room for treachery.

30. Their armed attendants having retired to an

equal distance on both sides, here met (each attended

by a single interpreter) the two greatest generals, not

only of the age they lived in, but of all who have been

recorded in any former time, and equal to any of the

kings or commanders of any nations whatever. On

sight of each other they both stood for some time

silent, struck dumb as it were by mutual admiration.

At length Hannibal began thus: ' Since it has been so

ordered by fate, that I, who first commenced hostilities

