HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXXI. 337

in order to take possession of the defiles, and prevent

the enemy from making their way, where the roads are

confined in narrow straits. There, with much labor,

he fortified some places with a rampart, others with a

trench, others with stones heaped up, instead of walls,

others with trees laid across, according as the situation

required, or as materials lay convenient; and thus a

road, in its own nature difficult, he rendered, as he

imagined, impregnable by the works which he drew

across every pass. The adjoining ground, being mostly

covered with woods, was exceedingly incommodious to

the phalanx of the Macedonians, which is of no manner

of use except when they extend their very long spears

before their shields, forming as it were a pallisade; to

perform which they require an open plain. The Thra-

cians, too, were embarrassed by their lances, which

also are of a great length, and were entangled among

the branches that stood in their way on every side.

The body of Cretans alone was not unserviceable; and

yet even these, though in case of an attack made on

them, they could to good purpose discharge their ar­

rows against the horses or riders, where they were

open to a wound, yet against the Roman shields they

could do nothing, because they had neither strength

sufficient to pierce through them, nor was there any

part exposed at which they could aim. Perceiving,

therefore, that kind of weapon to be useless, they an­

noyed the enemy with stones, which lay in plenty in

all parts of the valley: the strokes made by these on

their shields, with greater noise than injury, for a short

time retarded the advance of the Romans ; but quickly

learning to despise these weapons also, some closing

their shields in form of a tortoise, forced their way

through the enemy in front; others having, by a short

circuit, gained the summit of the hill, dislodged the

dismayed Macedonians from their guards and posts,

and even slew the greater part of them, the difficulties

of the ground preventing their escape.

40. Thus, with less opposition than they had ex­

pected to meet, they passed the defiles, and came to

LIV. VOL. V. Y

