HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXX.

Italy. Afterwards, on the pretov's assuring them that

Servilius would pay no regard to his letter, Publius

Sulpicius, being created dictator for the purpose, re­

called the consul, by virtue of his superior authority;

and then, with Marcus Servilius, master of the horse,

he spent the remainder of the year in going round to

the cities which had forfeited their allegiance during

the war, and examining into the conduct of each.

During the continuance of the truce a hundred trans­

ports, with stores, under the convoy of twenty ships of

war, sent from Sardinia by Lentulus, the pretor, ar­

rived safe in Africa, without meeting any obstruction

either from the enemy or bad weather. Cneius Octa-

vius, who sailed from Sicily with two hundred trans­

ports and thirty ships of war, had not the same good

fortune. His voyage was prosperous until he came

almost within sight of Africa, when the wind at first

subsided into a calm; then springing up heavily from

the south-west, his ships were dispersed on all sides.

He himself, with the ships of war, struggling through

the opposing waves, with excessive toil to the rowers,

made the promontory of Apollo: the transports were

most of them driven to jEgimurus, an island stretch­

ing across the mouth of the bay on which Carthage

stands, distant from the city about thirty miles; the

rest towards that part of it where the hot-baths are

found. All this happened within view of Carthage,

and occasioned a concourse of people from all parts in

the forum. The magistrates assembled the senate;

the multitude in the porch of the senate-house ex­

pressed aloud their uneasiness, lest so great a booty

should be allowed to escape out of their hands. Al­

though some objected that their faith was pledged in

having sued for peace, others in their having agreed to

a truce, and which had not yet expired, yet the assem­

bly, being composed of nearly ,an equal number of the

populace as of senators, came to a resolution that Has-

drubal should go to jEgimurus with a fleet of fifty

sail, and proceed from thence to pick up the scattered

ships of the Romans in the several harbors and along

liv. vol. v. R

