HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXVII. 73

on the ramparts and at the gates. As soon as day ap­

peared the Roman army came up to the trenches, the

Numidians, as, directed, showing themselves for some

time on the ramparts: having imposed on the enemy

as Jong as possible, they rode off at full speed, until

they overtook the body of their army» The consul,

perceiving the camp perfectly silent, and no longer

seeing any where even the small number who had pa­

raded in view, at the dawn of day despatched two

horsemen to examine the state of the works; and

when he learned with certainty that all was safe, he

ordered his army to march in. Here he delayed no

longer than while his men collected the plunder; then,

sounding a retreat, long before night, he brought back

his forces into their tents. Next day, at the first light,

he set out, and following by long marches the tracks

of the Carthaginians by such intelligence as he could

procure, overtook them not far from Venusia. Here

likewise an irregular kind of battle was fought, in

which above two thousand of the fugitives fell. From

thence, Hannibal, marching in the night, and taking

his way through mountains, that he might not be

forced to an engagement, proceeded towards Meta-

pontum: from which place Hanno, who commanded

the garrison of the town, was sent with a small party

into Bruttium to raise fresh forces; while Hannibal,

with the addition of the garrison to his own troops,

went back to Venusia by the same roads through

which he had come, and thence to Canusium. Nero

had never quitted the enemy's steps, and when he was

going himself to Metapontum, had sent orders to

Quintus Fnlvius to come into Lucania, lest that coun­

try should be left without defence.

43. In the mean time Hasdrubal, having raised the

siege of Placentia, sent four Gallic horsemen, and two

Numidians, with a letter for Hannibal; these after

traversing almost the whole length of Italy, through

the midst of enemies, in order to follow him on his

retreat to Metapontum, mistook the road, and went to­

wards Tarentum, where they were seized by some

