HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXVIII. 131

were no wonder if the army were weary of my com­

mand: yet, what had your country deserved of you,

that, by uniting your counsels with Mandonius and In-

dibilis, you were going to betray it? What had the

Roman people merited, when you took away the

power from the tribunes appointed by their common

suffrage, and conferred it on private men? when, not

even content with having them for magistrates, you, a

Roman army, bestowed the badges of your generals

on men who never had been possessed of so much as a

single slave? Albius and Atrius dwelt in the general's

pavilion, the trumpets sounded by their orders, the

word was taken from them, they sat on the tribunal of

Publius Scipio, they were attended by lictors, the way

was cleared for them, the rods and axes were carried

before them. That it should rain stones, that light­

nings should be darted from heaven, and that animals

should produce monstrous births, you look on as pro­

digies. This is a prodigy that can be expiated by no

victims, by no supplications, without the blood of

those who dared to commit such enormous crimes.

28. 'Now although no wickedness proceeds on

any grounds of reason, yet, in a transaction of such

atrocity as this, I should be glad to know what was

your intention, what your scheme. Formerly, a le­

gion, which had been sent as a garrison to Rhegium,

wickedly put to death the principal inhabitants, and

kept possession of that opulent city for ten years; for

which offence the whole legion, four thousand men,

were beheaded in the forum at Rome. These, how­

ever, did not put themselves under the command of an

Atrius, a man no better than a scullion, whose very

name was ominous; but of Decius Jubellius, a mili­

tary tribune: nor did they join themselves to the ene­

mies of the Roman people, either to the Samnites or

Lncanians. You united in counsels with Mandonius

and Indibilis, with whom you intended to have united

also your arms. Besides, those men expected to hold

Rhegium as a lasting settlement, as the Campaniam

held Capua, after taking it from the ancient Tuscan

