58 LIVY.

also got into his hands some towns of the Dassare-

tians, and was besides endeavoring to persuade the

Dardanians to take arms. In consequence of this in­

telligence, dropping the prosecution of the war be­

tween the Achaeans and iEtolians, but leaving how­

ever two thousand five hundred soldiers, of one sort or

other, under the command of Menippus and Polyphan-

tas, to assist his allies, he marched away from Dymae,

through Achaia, Boeotia, and Euboea, and on the tenth

day arrived at Demetrias in Thessaly. Here he was

met by other couriers, with accounts of still more dan­

gerous commotions; that the Dardanians, pouring into

Macedonia, had already seized on Orestis, and marched

down into the plain of Argestee, and that a report pre­

vailed among the barbarians that Philip had been

slain. This rumor was occasioned by the following

circumstance:—In his expedition against the plunder­

ing parties near Sicyon, being carried by the impetu­

osity of his horse against a tree, a projecting branch

broke off one of the side ornaments of his helmet,

which being found by an iEtolian, and carried into

jEtolia to Scerdilaedus, who knew it to be the cogni­

sance of the king, it was supposed that he was killed.

After Philip's departure from Achaia, Sulpicius, sail­

ing to jEgina, joined his fleet to that of Attalus. The

Achasans gained the victory in a battle with the JEto-

lians and Eleans, fought near Messene. King Attalus

and Publius Sulpicius wintered at jEgina.

33. Towards the close of this year the consul Titus

Quinttus Crispinus, after having nominated Titus JVIan-

lius Torquatus dictator, to preside at the elections, and

solemnise the games, died of his wounds, according to

some writers, atTarentum, according to others in Cam­

pania. Thus was there a concurrence of events, such

as had never been experienced in any former war,

while the two consuls being slain, without having

fought any memorable battle, left the commonwealth,

as it were, fatherless. The dictator Manlius appointed

Cains Servilius, then curule edile, his master of the

horse. The senate, on the first day of its meeting,

