HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXIX. 187

command of that province in the same manner as they

had held it the year before. The consuls gave direc­

tions for a levy of soldiers, out of whom they might at

once form the new legions for Brnttium, and fill up

the numbers of the other armies; for such were the

orders of the senate.

14. Africa had not yet been publicly declared a pro­

vince—the senate, I suppose, keeping the matter se­

cret, lest the Carthaginians should get intelligence of

it. The city, however, was filled with sanguine hopes

that a decisive blow would soon be struck on that

shore, and that there would be an end to the Punic

war. From this cause arose abundance of supersti­

tious notions; and the minds of the people became

disposed both to believe and to propagate accounts of

prodigies, of which a very great number were re­

ported: 'that two suns had been seen, and that in the

night-time light had suddenly appeared: that at Setia

a blaze like that of a torch had been observed, ex­

tending from east to west: that at Tarracina a gate,

and at Anagnia, both a gate and several parts of the

wall had been struck by lightning: that in the temple

of Juno Sospita, at Lanuvium, a great noise had been

beard, succeeded by a dreadful crash.' For the ex­

piation of these, there was a supplication of one day's

continuance; and nine days were set apart for reli­

gious offices, on account of a shower of stones that

had fallen. In addition to these matters, they had to

consult on the reception to be given to the Ideean

mother. For, besides the account brought by Marcus

Valerius, (one of the ambassadors who had come be­

fore the rest,) that the goddess would soon be in Italy,

a late account had been received that she was at Tar­

racina. The senate also was engaged in the decision

of a question of no trifling importance—who was the

best man in the city? A well-grounded preference in

that point, every one would certainly value much

more highly than any honors which could be conferred

by the votes either of the senate or the people. They

gave their judgment, that Publius Scipio, son of

