HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXIX. 215

both the booty of cattle and the prisoners, and also a

part of his forces, which were more numerous than the

remainder of the business required. Then, with no

more than five hundred foot and two hundred horse,

pursuing Masinissa, who had gone down from the top

of the mountain, he shut him up in a narrow valley,

securing the entrance at each end. Great slaughter

was there made of the Massylians; Masinissa, with

not more than fifty horsemen, effected a retreat through

the intricate passes of the mountain, with which the

pursuers were unacquainted. Bocchar, however,

closely followed his steps, and overtaking him in au

open plain, near the city Clupea, surrounded him

in such a manner that he slew every one of his fol足

lowers except four horsemen: Masinissa with these,

and after receiving a wound, slipped out of his hands,

as it were, during the tumult. Their flight was in full

view, a body of horse being spread over the whole

plain, some of whom pursued these five remaining

enemies, while others, in order to meet them, pushed

across their route. A large river lay in the way of the

fugitives, into which they plunged their horses with足

out hesitation, being pressed by greater danger from

behind. Hurried away by the current, they were car足

ried down obliquely; and two of them being swal足

lowed by its violent rapidity in sight of the enemy,

they believed that Masinissa himself had perished:

but, with the two other horsemen, he landed among

some bushes on the farther bank. This put an end to

Bocchar's pursuit, for he durst not venture into the

river; and besides, he was persuaded that the object

of it no longer existed; he therefore returned to the

king with the ill-grounded report of Masinissa's death.

Messengers were despatched with the joyful news to

Carthage; though in its spread over Africa men's

minds were variously affected by it. Masinissa, while

healing his wounds by the application of herbs, and in

a secret cave, lived for several days on what the two

horsemen procured by pillage. As soon as it was

cicatrised, and he thought himself able to bear the mo-

