HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXXII. 395

those places in Illyricum of which he had possessed

himself by force, since the peace concluded in Epirus;

and to Ptolemy, king of Egypt, the cities which he

had seized since the death of Ptolemy Philopater.

These were the terms which he required, on behalf of

himself and the Roman people: but it was proper that

the demands of the allies also should be heard. The

ambassador of king Attalus demanded 'restitution of

the ships and prisoners taken in the sea-fight at Cius:

and that Nicephorium, and the temple of Venus, which

Philip had pillaged and defaced, should be put in a

state of thorough repair.' The Khodians laid claim to

Peraea, a tract on the continent, lying opposite to their

island, which from early times had been under their

jurisdiction; and they required that 'the garrisons

should be withdrawn from Tassus, Bargylii, and Eu-

roma, and from Sestus and Abydos on the Hellespont;

that Perinthus should be restored to the Byzantians,

in right of their ancient title; and that all the seaport

towns and harbors of Asia should be free.' The

Achseans asserted their right to Corinth and Argos.

Phasneas nearly repeated the demands made by the

Romans, that the troops should withdraw out of

Greece, and the jEtolians be put in possession of the

cities which had formerly been under their dominion.

He was followed by Alexander, a man of eminence

among this people, aud, considering his country, not

uneloquent. He said that ' he had long kept silence,

not because he expected that any business would be

effected in that conference, but because he was unwill­

ing to interrupt any of the allies in their discourse.'

He asserted that ' Philip had neither treated of peace

with sincerity, nor waged war with courage, at any

time: that in negotiating he was insidious and fraudu­

lent: while in war he never fought on equal ground,

nor engaged in regular battles; but, skulking about,

burned and pillaged towns, and, when likely to be

vanquished, destroyed the prizes of victory. But not

in that manner did the ancient kings of Macedon be­

have; they decided the fate of the war in the field,

