251 LIVY.

ing such departure, though they had received orders

to that purpose from the senate. They had also much

anxiety concerning the final issue of affairs, now that

the whole weight of the war fell on one general and

his army. About the same time ambassadors arrived

from Saguntum, bringing with them some Carthagi­

nians who had come over to Spain to hire auxiliaries,

and whom they had seized, together with .their money.

They laid down in the porch of the senate-house two

hundred and fifty pounds weight of gold and eighty of

silver. The agents were thrown into prison; the gold

and silver were returned, and thanks given to the Sa-

guntines; presents were made to them besides, and

ships provided to convey them home to Spain. Some

of the older senators then observed, that ' Men had

less lively sensations of good than of evil. Did they

remember what terror and consternation Hannibal's

coming into Italy had excited? What losses they had

sustained, and what lamentations had followed? When

the Carthaginian camp was seen from the walls of the

city, what vows were then offered up by each particu­

lar person and by the whole body of the people!

How often, in their assemblies, were their hands

stretched out towards heaven, and exclamations heard

—O! will that day ever arrive, when we shall see

Italy cleared of the enemy, and blessed once more

with the enjoyment of peace? That now, at length, in

the sixteenth year, the gods had granted their wish,

and yet not the slightest proposal had been made of

returning thanks to the gods. So deficient are men in

gratitude, even at the time when a favor is received;

and much less are they apt to retain a proper sense of

it afterwards.' Immediately, a general exclamation

broke forth from every part of the senate-house, that

Publius jElius the pretor, should take the sense of the

senate on the subject; and a decree passed, that a sup­

plication should be solemnised in all the temples for

five days, and a hundred and twenty of the greater

victims offered in sacrifice.

• 22. After Laelius and Masinissa's ambassadors were

