HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXVII. 43

blood flowed from a lake. On account of these por­

tents there was a supplication performed of one day's

continuance. During many successive ones, sacrifices

were offered of victims of the larger kinds, and yet no

favorable omens appeared, nor, for a long time, was

there any indication of the gods becoming propitious.

The baneful events, thus foreboded, affected not im­

mediately the safety of the state, but fell on the per­

sons of the consuls. The Apollinarian games had

been first celebrated by the city pretor, Cornelius Sulla,

in the consulate of Quintus Fulvius and Appius Clau­

dius; and, thenceforward, all the city pretors in suc­

cession had performed them; but they vowed them

only for one year, and fixed no particular day for their

observance. This year a grievous epidemic disorder

fell both on the city and country: however, the sick­

ness was rather tedious than mortal. On account of

this malady, a supplication was performed in all the

streets of Rome, the city pretor, Publius Licinius Va­

rus, being at the same time ordered to propose to the

people to enact a law, that a vow should be made for

the perpetual celebration of those games on a stated

day. Accordingly he himself first engaged for it,

holding the games on the third day of the nones of

July, which day has ever since been observed as an

anniversary festival.

24. The rumors concerning the Arretians grew

every day more and more alarming, and greatly in­

creased the anxiety of the senate; wherefore orders

were despatched to Caius Hostilius, not to defer taking

hostages from that people; and Caius Terenlius Varro

was sent with a commission to receive them from him,

and conduct them to Rome. On his arrival, Hosti­

lius immediately ordered one legion, which was en­

camped before the gates, to march into the city; and

then, having posted guards in proper places, he sum­

moned the senate to attend him in the forum, and

make a demand of hostages. The senate requested

two days' time to consider the matter; but he insisted

that they should give them instantly, or he would next

