164 LIVY.

weight of silver. Although Scipio had not obtained

nor earnestly solicited authority to levy soldiers, he

yet was permitted to iurol volunteers; and as he had

declared that the fleet should be no expense to the

public, so he might receive such contributions as

should be offered by the allies for building new ships.

The states of Etruria first promised to give assistance

to the consul proportioned to the respective abilities of

each; the people of Caere engaged to bring corn and

provisions of all kinds for the seamen; the Populo-

nians, iron; the Tarquinians, canvass for sails; the

Volaterrans, tackling and corn; the Arretians, thirty

thousand shields, the same number of helmets; of

javelins, short pikes, and long spears, each an equal

number, amounting in the whole to fifty thousand; to

Supply axes, mattocks, bills, buckets, and millstones,

sufficient for forty ships of war, with one hundred and

twenty thousand pecks of wheat; they also promised

to contribute to the expense of the decurionsi and

rowers. The people of Per'^ium, Clusium, and Ru-

sella gave assurance of fir lor building ships, and a

large quantity of corn. The states of Umbria, with

the people of Nursia, Reate, and Amiternum, and the

whole country of the Sabines, engaged to furnish sol­

diers. Fir however he took out of the woods belong­

ing to the state. Great numbers of the Marsians, Pe-

lignians, and Marrusinians, voluntarily gave in their

names to serve in the fleet. The Camertans, though

confederated with the Romans on equal terms, sent a

cohort of six hundred men and arms. Having laid

the keels of thirty ships, twenty quinqueremes, and

ten quadriremes, Scipio pressed forward the work by

his personal attendance in such a manner, that on the

forty-fifth day after the timber had been brought

from the woods, the ships were rigged, armed, and

launched.

46. The consul proceeded to Sicily with thirty ships

of war, having embarked about seven thousand volun-

i Officers who had the command of the rowers.

