HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXIX. 175

tude of both nations present), and told them that he

had been sent for the purpose of restoring them to

liberty, and, as they themselves saw, aid was now af­

forded him from home. But with what force, with how

great an army the war was to be carried on, was a

matter that depended intirely on them. That there

were two Roman armies, one in Gaul, another in Etru-

ria; and he was well assured that Spurius Lucretius

would join his forces to those of Marcus Livius; where­

fore they on their side must arm many thousands, to

enable them to oppose two Roman generals and two

armies.' The Gauls answered, that 'they had the

strongest inclination to act as he advised; but as they

had one Roman army in the heart of their country, and

another in the next adjoining province of Etruria, al­

most within their sight, if it should be publicly known

that they gave aid to the Carthaginians, those two

armies would immediately commence hostilities against

them on both sides.' They requested him to ' demand

such assistance only as the Gauls could supply in

secret. The Ligurians,' they said, ' were at liberty

to determine as they thought fit, the Roman camps

being far distant from their lands and cities; besides,

it was reasonable that they should arm their youth,

and take their part in the war.' This the Ligurians

did not decline; they only required two months time

to make their levies. Mago, having sent home the

Gauls, hired soldiers privately in their country; pro­

visions also of all kinds were sent to him secretly by

their several states. Marcus Livius led his army of

volunteer slaves from Etruria into Gaul, and having

joined Lucretius, kept himself in readiness to oppose

Mago, if he should move from Liguria towards the

city; intending, if the Carthaginian should keep him­

self quiet under that corner of the Alps, to continue in

the same district, near Ariminum, for the protection of

Italy.

6. After the return of Caius Laelius from Africa, al­

though Scipio was urged to expedition by the repre­

sentations of Masiuissa, and the soldiers, on seeing the

