HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXVII. 65

sent from Etruria, denounced this to be a portent par­

ticularly horrid, that ought to be exterminated from

the Roman territories, and without being suffered to

touch the earth, drowned in the sea. Accordingly,

they shut it up alive in a chest, and threw it into the

deep. The pontiffs likewise issued a mandate, that

thrice nine virgins should go in procession through the

city, singing a hymn. While they were employed in

the temple of Jupiter Stator, learning this hymn,

which was composed by the poet Livius, the temple

of Imperial Juno, on the Aventine, was struck by

lightning. The aruspices, having delivered their judg­

ment that this prodigy had respect to the matrons, and

that the goddess ought to be appeased by an offering,

the curule ediles, by an edict, summoned together into

the capitol all those matrons who had houses in the

eity of Rome, or within ten miles of it; and from this

number they chose twenty-five, to whom they paid in

a contribution out of their own effects. With this mo­

ney a golden basin was made, and carried to the Aven­

tine, where the matrons, with every demonstration of

purity and sanctity, immolated to the goddess. Im­

mediately after, the decemvirs, by proclamation, ap­

pointed a day for another sacrifice to the same divi­

nity, which was conducted in the following order:—

from the temple of Apollo, two white heifers were led

into the city, through the Carmental gate; after them

were carried two cypress images of imperial Juno;

then followed the twenty-seven virgins clad in long

robes, singing the hymn in honor of that deity. This

hymn might perhaps to the uninformed judgments of

those times, appear to have merit, but, if repeated at

present, it would seem barbarous and uncouth. The

train of virgins was followed by the decemvirs,

crowned with laurel, and dressed in purple-bordered

robes. From the gate they proceeded through the Ju-

garian street into the forum: here the procession

halted, and a cord was given to the virgins, of which

tbey all took hold, and then advanced, beating time

with their feet to the music of their voices. Thus they

LIV. VOL. V. E

