HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXX. 241

the conqueror's mind was not only subdued to pity, but,

as all the Numidians are extremely amorous, the vic­

torious king became the slave of his captive ;1 and

giving his right band, as a pledge for the performance

of what she had requested, he went into the palace.

Immediately he began to consider within himself by

what means he might fulfil his engagement; and not

being able to devise any, he adopted a rash and shame­

ful resolution, suggested by his love. He gave orders

that every thing should be instantly prepared for a

marriage on that same day, in order that he might

leave no room for Laelius, or Scipio himself, to pro­

ceed against her as a captive, since she would then be

his wife. After the marriage was concluded Laelius

arrived; and so far was he from dissembling his dis­

approbation of the proceeding, that at first he even re­

solved to drag her from the nuptial bed, and send her

with Syphax to Scipio: but he was afterwards pre­

vailed on by the intreaties of Masinissa, who besought

him to leave it to the Romans to determine which of

the two kings should have Sophonisba a sharer of his

fortune. Sending away, therefore, Syphax and the

other prisoners, he reduced, with the assistance of

Masinissa, all the cities of Numidia which were held

by the king's garrisons.

13. When it was announced that the detachment

was bringing Syphax to the camp, the whole multitude

poured out, as if to the sight of a triumph. He pre­

ceded the rest in chains, and was followed by a number

of noble Numidians. On this occasion every one spoke

in the most exalted terms of the greatness of Syphax,

and the fame of his nation; thus exaggerating the re­

nown of their victory. 'That was the king,' they said,

'to whose dignity the two most powerful states in the

l Sophonisba had been formerly betrothed to Masinissa, and

being afterwards given to Syphax, was one reason of his

quarrelling with the Carthaginians, and joining the Romans.

Another was, that in the contest between him and Mezutu-

lus for the throne, his rival had been aided by the Cartha­

ginians.

LIV. VOL. V. «

