HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXX. 261

of obtaining Africa: they therefore wished that Italy

and Africa should be disposed of by lot: but this was

opposed, though by Quintus Metellns chiefly. The

consuls were ordered to apply to the tribunes, to take

the sense of the people as to who should conduct the

war in Africa. All the tribes concurred in appointing

Publius Scipio. Nevertheless the consuls put the pro­

vince of Africa to the lot, for so the senate had de­

creed, and it fell to Tiberius Claudius, who was to

carry to Africa a fleet of fifty ships, all quinqueremes,

with authority equal to that of Scipio. Marcus Servi-

lius obtained Etruria; and in the same province the

command was continued to Caius Servilius, if the se­

nate thought proper that the consul should remain in

the city. Of the pretors, Marcus Sextius obtained

Gaul, where Publius Quintilius Varus was fo deliver

to him two legions with the province; Cains Livins,

Bruttium, with the two legions which Publius Sem-

pronius, proconsul, had commanded the year before;

Cneius Tremellius, Sicily, with directions to receive

from Publius Villius Tappulus, pretor of the former

year, the province and two legions; Villius, as pro-

pretor, was appointed to protect the coast of Sicily

with twenty ships of war and one thousand troops;

Marcus Pomponius, to convey from thence to Rome,

with the remaining twenty ships, one thousand five

hundred soldiers. The city jurisdiction fell to Caius

Aurelius Cotta: the rest were conlinued in their pro­

vinces, and with the armies to which they were first

appointed. Not more than sixteen legions were em­

ployed that year in the service of the empire. In

order to conciliate the favor of the gods to all their

undertaking's and proceedings, it was ordered that the

consuls should, before they set out to the campaign,

celebrate those games, and with the greater victims,

which Titus Manlius, dictator, in the consulate of Mar­

cus Claudius Marcellus and Titus Quintius, had vowed,

provided the commonwealth should for the next five

years continue in the same state. The games were

exhibited in the circus during four days, and the

