19G LIVY.

with a wall, and which they had raised to some height,

it suddenly fell down in ruins. Thus it is seen that

not only now, but at several other times, the goddess

has either secured her own habitation—her sacred

fane, or has exacted heavy atonements from those who

dared to violate it. Our injuries she cannot avenge;

conscript fathers, it can alone be done by you. To

you, and to your honor, we fly, and, as suppliants,

implore relief. For whether you sutler Locri to con­

tinue under the present lieutenant-general and garri­

son, or deliver our countrymen up to Hannibal and

the Carthaginians, to be punished as their anger may

direct, it will be equally fatal to them. We do not

require that you should, at once, give credit to us,

and to charges made in the general's absence, or with­

out allowing him to make his defence: let him come,

let him hear them in person; let him clear himself of

them, if he can. In fine, if there be any act of iniquity

which one man can commit against others, that he has

not committed against us, we consent, if it be possible,

again to endure our griefs, and that he shall be ac­

quitted of all guilt towards both gods and men.'

19. When the ambassadors had concluded their dis­

course, being asked by Quintus Fabius whether they

had laid those complaints before Publius Scipio, they

answered, that ' an embassy had been sent to him, but

that he was taken up with the preparations for the

war; and that, either before this time he had passed

over into Africa, or would do so in a very few days.

That they had experienced what great interest the

lieutenant-general had with the commander, when,

after hearing the cause between him and the tribunes,

he threw the tribunes into chains, and left the lieute­

nant-general, who was equally guilty, or rather more

so, in possession of the same power as before.' The

ambassadors being ordered to withdraw, the principal

senators inveighed severely not only against Plemi-

nins, but against Scipio also; but, above all, Quintus

Fabius, who asserted that 'he was born for the cor­

ruption of military discipline; that, through such con-

