34 LIVY.

valry were driven within their works, whither they

tied in Confusion, pressed almost to the very gates.

The action of that day having only whetted their ardor

for a contest, the Romans pitched their camp. Has-

drubal, during the night, drew back his army to a hill,

the summit of which was spread out into a level plain;

on the Tear of the hill was a river, and on the front and

on either side it was encircled by a kind of steep bank:

at some distance below this lay another plain, sloping

downwards, the circumference of which was likewise

bounded by another bank of equally difficult ascent.

Into this lower plain Hasdrubal, next day, on seeing

the enemy's line formed in front of their camp, sent

down his Numidian cavalry and the light-armed Ba-

learians and Africans. Scipio, riding round the com­

panies and battalions, desired them to observe that

'the enemy, renouncing at once all hopes of being

able to oppose them on plain ground, endeavored to

secure themselves on hills; waiting within sight, and

confiding in the strength of their posts, not in their

valor and their arms. But Roman soldiers had mounted

the higher defences of Carthage. Neither hills, nor a

citadel, nor the sea itself, had stopped the progress of

their arms. Those heights which the enemy had seized

would answer no other purpose than that of compelling

them, in their flight, to leap down crags and preci­

pices; but he would prevent their escaping even in

that way.' Accordingly he gave orders to two co­

horts, that one of them should secure the entrance of

the valley through which the river ran; and that the

other should block up the road, which led from the

city into the country, across the declivity of the hill.

He then put himself at the head of the light troops,

which had the day before beaten the enemy's advanced

guards, and led them against the light-armed forces

posted on the brink of the lower descent. For some

time they proceeded over rough ground, without meet­

ing any other obstacle than the difficulty of the way;

afterwards, when they came within reach, vast quanti­

ties of weapons of every sort were poured down on

