84 LIVY.

off in a body, without any certain leader, without

standards, without order or subordination, and that

they might all be cut off, if one squadron of horse were

sent against them, he answered, 'Let some be left

alive, to carry home accounts of the enemy's losses,

and of our valor.'

50. On the night which followed the battle Nero

set out on his return; and by marches even speedier

than he had made in coming, on the sixth day after

reached his former post opposite the enemy. The

crowds of people attending him were less than before,

because no messenger had preceded him; but these

exhibited such demonstrations of joy, as to seem trans­

ported almost beyond their reason. It is impossible

to express or describe the emotions that agitated the

minds of all persons at Rome, either while waiting in

doubtful expectation of the event, or when they re­

ceived the news of the victory. The senators never

quitted the senate-house, nor the magistrates, nor the

people, the forum, from the rising to the setting sun,

during the whole of Claudius' march; so eager were

they to greet him. The matrons, incapable themselves

of contributing aid, had recourse to prayers and sup­

plications; and going about from one temple to ano­

ther, wearied the gods with their intreaties and their

vows. While the public were in this painful sus­

pense, first an unauthenticated rumor spread that two

Narnian horsemen had come from the field of battle to

the camp which stood on the frontiers of Umbria,

with intelligence that the enemy were utterly defeated.

For some time this news, though listened to, was but

little credited, as being too great, and too joyful, for

the people's minds to admit, or readily believe; and

even the quickness of the conveyance was urged as an

objection to the truth of it; as the account said that

the battle was fought only two days before. Soon

after this a letter was brought from the camp by Lu­

cius Manlius Acidinus, confirming the arrival of the

Narnian horsemen. This letter being carried through

the forum to the pretor's tribunal, brought out the

