HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXVIII. 12i>

to set out. A little before day the troops moved also,

but stopped in a body at the gate, whence guards were

sent round to all the other avenues, to prevent any one

going out of the city. Those who had arrived the day

before were then summoned to an assembly, and they

ran together into the forum to the general's tribunal in

the most turbulent manner, intending to excite terror

by their tumultuous shouts. Just as the general was

taking his seat the troops, who had been recalled from

the gates, spread themselves round, under arms, be­

hind the unarmed assembly. On this all the arrogance

of the latter sunk at once; and, as they afterwards

confessed, nothing terrified them so much as the unex­

pected vigor and complexion of the general, whom

they ha.d expected to see in a sickly state—his counte­

nance showing more sternness, they said, than they

had ever remembered to have seen even in battle. He

sat silent for a short time, until he was told that the

authors of the mutiny were brought into the forum,

and that all things were prepared.

27. Then, a herald having commanded silence, he

began thus: 'Never did I imagine that I should be in

want of language to address my own army: not that I

ever gave more attention to words than to business;

for, having lived in camps almost from my childhood, I

was ever well acquainted with the soldier's way of think­

ing. But, with what sentiments, or in what terms, I

should speak to you, I am intirely at a loss. I know

not even what appellation I ought to give you. Can I

call you countrymen, who have revolted from your

country; or soldiers, who have renounced obedience

to command, and broke through the obligation of

your oath; or enemies? I behold, indeed, the per­

sons, faces, habit, mien of my fellow-citizens; but I

perceive the actions, words, schemes, dispositions of

foes: for what other object did your hopes and wishes

aim at, than the same which was proposed by the

Illergetians and Lacetans? They however chose for

leaders in their mad enterprise Mandonius and Indi-

bilis, men of royal distinction: you conferred su-

LIV. VOL. V. I

