260 LIVY.

from Spain, was delivered out to the inhabitants at the

easy rate of four asses a bushel, by the curule ediles,

Marcus Valerius Falto and Marcus Fabius Buteo. In

the same year died Quintus Fabius Maximus, in ex­

treme old age, if it be true, as some writers affirm, that

he had been augur for sixty-two years. He was cer­

tainly a man worthy of the great surname which he

bore, even if he were the first to whom it was applied.

He surpassed his father, and was equal to his grand­

father, in the honorable posts which he filled. His

grandfather, Rullus, was distinguished by a greater

number of victories, and greater battles; but the ac­

tions of Fabius, having such an antagonist as Hannibal,

may be considered as equivalent to them all. He was

deemed to possess more caution than spirit: but though

it may be doubted whether the dilatoriness of his con­

duct arose from his natural disposition, or from a con­

viction that it was best suited to the war in which he

was engaged, yet nothing is more certain than that this

man alone, as the poet Ennius says, by his delays re­

trieved our affairs. Quintus Fabius Maximus, his son,

was consecrated augur in bis place, and Servius Sulpi-

cius Galba pontiff, in his place also; for he held two

offices in the college of priests. The Roman games

were repeated for one day; the plebeian thrice re­

peated intire, by the curule ediles, Marcus Sextius

Sabinus and Caius Treniellius Flaccus. Both these

were elected pretors, and, with them, Cains Livius

Salinator and Caius Aurelius Cotta. The different ac­

counts given by writers render it uncertain whether

Caius Servilius, consul, presided at the elections that

year, or Publius Sulpicius, nominated dictator by him,

because he himself was detained in Etruria, being em­

ployed, pursuant to a decree of the senate, in holding

inquisitions relative to the conspiracies of the principal

inhabitants.

27. In the beginning of the following year, [A.U. C.

550. B.C. 202] Marcus Servilius and Tiberius Clau­

dius, summoning the senate to the capitol, consulted

them concerning the provinces. Both were desirous

