HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXXI. 345

the coast of that state; and, intending from thence to

double the promontory, and bring round the fleet to

the very walls of the city, they were near being buried

in the waves by a furious storm. However, after being

dispersed, and a great part of the ships having lost

their rigging, they escaped on shore. This storm at

sea was an omen of the kind of success which they

were to meet on land; for, after collecting their ves­

sels together, and landing their forces, having made

an assault on the city, they were repulsed with con­

siderable loss, there being a strong garrison of the

king's troops in the place. Being thus obliged to re­

treat without accomplishing their design, they passed

over to Canastrum in Pallene, and from thence, dou­

bling the promontory of Torona, conducted the fleet to

Acanthus. There they first laid waste the country,

then stormed the city itself, and plundered it. They

proceeded no farther, for their ships were now heavily

laden with booty, but went back to Sciathus, and

from Sciathus to Euboea, whence they had first set

out.

46. Leaving the fleet there, they entered the Malian

bay with ten light ships, in order to confer with the

jEtolians on the method of conducting the war. Si-

pyrrhicas, the jEtolian, was at the head of the embassy

that came to Heraclea, to hold a consultation with the

king and the Roman lieutenant-general. They de­

manded of Attalus that, in pursuance of the treaty, he

should supply them with one thousand soldiers, which

number he had engaged for on condition of their taking

part in the war against Philip. This was refused to

the yEtolians, because on their part they had formerly

showed themselves unwilling to march out to ravage

Macedonia, at a time when Philip, being employed

near Pergamus in destroying by fire every thing sacred

and profane, they might have compelled him to retire

from thence, in order to preserve his own territories.

Thus, instead of aid, the jfitolians were dismissed with

hopes, the Romans making them large promises. Apus-

tius and Attalus returned to their ships, where they

