206 LIVY.

field of Mars, before he called on the centuries to give

their votes, required their attention, and addressed

them thus :—' Citizens, you seem to me not to under­

stand that the question before you is not whether you

choose to have peace or war; for Philip, having al­

ready commenced hostilities wilh a formidable force,

both on land and sea, allows you not that option. The

question is, whether you choose to transport your le­

gions to Macedonia, or to suffer the enemy to come

into Italy? How important the difference is between

these two cases, if you knew it not before, you have

sufficiently learned in the late Punic war: for who en­

tertains a doubt, but if, wben the Saguntines were be­

sieged, and implored our protection, we had assisted

them with vigor, as our fathers did the Mamertines,

we should have averted the whole weight of the war on

Spain; which, by our dilatory proceedings, we suf­

fered to our extreme loss to fall on Italy? Nor does

it admit a doubt, that what confined this same Philip

in Macedonia, (after he had entered into an engage­

ment with Hannibal*, by ambassadors and letters, to

cross over into Italy,) was, our sending Laevinus with

a fleet to carry the war home to him. And what we

did at that time, when we had Hannibal to contend

with in Italy, do we hesitate to do now, after Hannibal

has been expelled Italy, and the Carthaginians sub­

dued? Suppose for an instant that we allow the king

to experience the same inactivity on our part, while

he is taking Athens, as Hannibal found while he was

taking Saguntum: it will not be in the fifth month, as

the Carthaginian came from Saguntum, but on the

fifth day after the Macedonian sets sail from Corinth,

that he will arrive in Italy. Perhaps you may not

consider Philip as equal to Hannibal, or the Macedo­

nians to the Carthaginians: certainly, however, you

will allow him equal to Pyrrhus. Equal, do I say?

what a vast superiority has the one man over the

other—the one nation over the other! Epirus ever

was, and is at this day, deemed but an inconsiderable

accession to the kingdom of Macedonia. Philip lias

