232 livy.

thousand men: taken, above five thousand; many Car­

thaginian nobles, eleven senators; military standards,

a hundred and seventy-four; Numidian horses, above

two thousand seven hundred; six elephants were taken,

and eight destroyed. A great quantity of arms was

taken, all which the general dedicated to Vulcan, and

committed to the flames.

7. Hasdrubal, with a small number of Africans, had

directed his flight to the nearest city; and thither all

who survived, following the steps of their general, had

assembled; but, dreading lest he should be delivered

into the hands of Scipio, he soon after quitted it. The

Romans, who were immediately after received there,

committed no act of hostility, because the surrender

was voluntary. Two other cities were taken and

plundered; and the booty found in them, together

with what had been saved when the camps were burned,

was given up to the soldiers. Syphax halted in a

fortified post, at about eight miles distance. Has­

drubal, lest any timorous measures should be adopted

through the violent apprehensions occasioned by the

late disaster, proceeded to Carthage, where such con­

sternation had seized the people, that they made no

doubt but Scipio would leave Utica, and instantly lay

siege to Carthage. The senate was therefore assem­

bled by the suffetes, who are invested with the same

authority as our consuls. Three different opinions

were offered on the occasion: one proposed sending

ambassadors to Scipio, with proposals of peace; ano­

ther, the recalling of Hannibal, to defend his country;

the third showed Roman firmness in adversity, recom­

mending to recruit the army, and to intreat Syphax

not to abandon the war. This latter opinion prevailed,

because Hasdrubal, who was present, and all of the

Barcine faction, were disposed to fight to the last. On

this they began to levy troops in the city and the coun­

try, and sent ambassadors to Syphax, who was himself

most vigorously employed in making preparations for

the renewal of hostilities. His queen had prevailed,

not on this occasion as formerly, by her allurements,

