HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXX. 251

There were five thousand Carthaginians slain on that

day, and twenty-two military ensigns taken. Nor was

the victory bloodless on the side of the Romans: two

thousand three hundred men of the pretor's army were

lost, by far the greater part of whom were of the

twelfth legion; of which legion also fell two military

tribunes, Marcus Gosconius and Marcus Maenius. Of

the thirteenth legion, likewise, which had shared the

latter part of the engagement, Cneius Helvius, mili­

tary tribune, was slain while employed in restoring the

fight. There perished, besides, thirty-two horsemen

of some distinction, who were trodden down by the

elephants, together with some centurions. Probably

the contest would not have been so. soon ended, had

not the wound of their general made the enemy retire

from the field.

19. Mago, setting out during the silence of the next

night, and making as long journeys as his wound al­

lowed him to bear, arrived at the sea-coast, in the

country of the Ingaunian Ligurians. There the depu­

ties from Carthage, who had a few days before arrived

with the ships in the Gallic bay, waited on him, and

delivered orders to him to pass over to Africa as soon

as possible; informing him that his brother Hannibal,

to whom messengers had been also sent, would do the

same, for the affairs of the Carthaginians were not in

a condition to hold possession of Gaul and Italy by

arms. Mago was not only moved by the commands

of the senate and the danger that threatened his coun­

try, but dreaded lest, if he delayed, he might be hard

pressed by the victorious enemy; and also, lest the

Ligurians themselves, seeing that the Carthaginians

were about to relinquish Italy, might revolt to those

under whose power they must speedily fall. He at

the same time entertained hopes that his wound might

be less irritated on board a ship than on land, and that

he might there be able to attend to the cure of it with

more convenience. Embarking therefore his troops,

he set sail, and had scarcely passed Sardinia when he

died; on the coast of which island, several Carthagi­

