8 LIVY.

ple, were introduced to the senate; who, to fulfil the

engagements of the consul, bestowed rewards on them

all. Mutines was even made a Roman citizen, an

order for that purpose being proposed to the commons

by a plebeian tribune, in pursuance of directions from

the senate. While these matters passed at Rome,

Marcus Valerius Messala, with fifty ships, arriving on

the coast of Africa before day, made an unexpected

descent on the lands of Utica, which he ravaged to a

great extent; and, after taking many prisoners and

other booty of every kind, reimbarked, set sail for

Sicily, and returned to Lilybasum, on the thirteenth

day after he had left it. On examining the prisoners,

the following particulars were discovered, and all, in

order, communicated by letter to the consul Laevinus,

that he might know the real state of affairs in Africa.

That 'there were at Carthage five thousand Numi-

dians, commanded by Massinissa, son of Gala, a young

man of a very enterprising spirit; and that people

were employed in all parts of Africa, in hiring other

troops, which were to be sent to Spain, to Hasdrubal,

in order that, with the most numerous army which he^

could muster, and with all possible expedition, he

might pass over into Italy and join Hannibal. That

on this measure the Carthaginians placed all their

hopes of success. That, besides this, they were fitting

out a very great fleet for the recovery of Sicily, and

that the prisoners believed it would sail thither in a

very short time.' When the letter containing this in­

formation was read, it made so great an impression on

the senate, that they all concurred in opinion that the

consul ought not to wait for the elections, but to nomi­

nate a dictator to hold them, and return without delay

to his province. This plan was obstructed by a dis­

pute which arose; for the consul declared that he

would nominate dictator Marcus Valerius Messala,

who was then in Sicily commanding the fleet; but the

senate insisted that a dictator could not be nominated

who was in any place out of the Roman territory,

which extended not beyond the limits of Italy. Mar-

