26 LIVY.

witness of their behavior. On Hannibal's side, the

front line was composed of the Spanish troops, who

were the main strength of his army. When the fight

had long continued doubtful, Hannibal ordered the

elephants to be brought up to the van, hoping by their

means to occasion fear and disorder. At first they

broke the ranks, and by treading down some, and ter­

rifying others, on either side, so as to put them to

flight, made an opening in the line in one part; and

the alarm would probably have spread farther, had

not Caius Decimius Flavus, a military tribune, snatch­

ing the standard of the first band of spearmen, ordered

that company to follow him. He then led them to the

spot where the elephants were throwing all into con­

fusion, with directions to discharge their javelins at

them. Every weapon took place, for there was no

difficulty in hitting, at a small distance, bodies of such

huge bulk, especially as they were crowded close

together. But though they were not all of them

wounded, yet those, in whose flesh the javelins stuck,

as they are creatures whose motions cannot be de­

pended on, betaking themselves to flight, drove back

even those that were unhurt. And now, not any

particular company alone, but every soldier who could

come np with the retreating elephants, with all his

might hurled javelins at them. Thus attacked, the

more violently did the animals rush on their owners,

and made so much the greater carnage of them, than

they had made of the enemy, as one of them, when

frightened or hurt, is hurried on more forcibly than

he could be driven by the manager sitting on his back.

While the enemy's line was in this great disorder, in

consequence of those beasts breaking through it, the

Romans made a brisk onset, and without much oppo­

sition from troops so scattered and confused, drove

them off the ground. Marcellus ordered his cavalry

to charge them as they fled, and the pursuit did not

cease until they were driven, in consternation, into

their camp: for besides other circumstances which

caused terror and tumult, two elephants bad fallen in

