274 livy.

pursuing the enemy, as each could find a passage

through the heaps of carcases and weapons and

streams of blood, disordered both their battalions and

ranks. The battalions of the first rank men also, seeing

the line before them in confusion, began to waver;

which, as soon as Scipio observed, he instantly ordered

a retreat to be sounded for the spearmen, and carrying

off the wounded to the rear, brought up the first rank

men and veterans to the wings, in order that the line

of the spearmen in the centre might be the more se­

cure and firm. Thus was a new battle begun, for they

had now come up to their real antagonists, who were

on an equality with them, both in respect to the kind

of arms which they used, of their experience in war,

the fame of their exploits, and the greatness both of

their hopes and dangers. But the Romans had the ad­

vantage in number, and also in spirit, as having already

routed the cavalry and the elephants, and, after having

defeated the first line, engaging now with the second.

35. Laelius and Masinissa, who had pursued the

flying cavalry to some distance, returning at this cri­

tical juncture, fell on the rear of the enemy; and by

this charge effectually routed them. Many were sur­

rounded in the field and slain; many, being dispersed

in flight through the open country adjoining, where

the cavalry were intirely masters, perished in various

places. Of the Carthaginians and their allies there

were slain on that day above twenty thousand; about

the same number were taken, with a hundred and

thirty-three military standards, and eleven elephants.

Of the conquerors there fell two thousand. Hannibal,

escaping during the confusion with a few horsemen,

fled to Hadrumetum, having left no effort untried to

rally his troops before he left the field. Scipio him­

self, and all who were skilled in the military art, al­

lowed him the merit of having made the disposition of

his forces with singular judgment; placing the ele­

phants in the front, in order that their ungoverned onset

and insupportable violence might put it out of the

power of the Romans to follow their ensigns, and pre­

