HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXXI. 321

remaining whole, they should give a degree of gran-

deur to the ruins; and then, his rage not being sa­

tiated, but no object remaining on which it could be

exercised, he retired into Boeotia, without having per­

formed in Greece any thing else worth mention.

27. The consul, Sulpicius, who was at that time en­

camped on the river Apsus, between Apollonia and

Dyrrachium, having ordered Lucius Apustius, lieute­

nant-general, thither, sent him with part of the forces

to lay waste the enemy's country. Apustius, after

ravaging the frontiers of Macedonia, and having, at

the first assault, taken the forts of Corragos, Gerru-

nios, and Orgessos, came to Antipatria, a city situated

in a narrow vale; where, at first inviting the leading

men to a conference, he endeavored to prevail on

them to put themselves under the protection of the

Romans; but finding that from confidence in the size,

fortifications, and situation of their city, they paid no

regard to his discourse, he attacked the place by force

of arms, and took it by assault: then, putting all the

young men to the sword, and giving up the intire

spoil to his soldiers, he rased the walls, and burned

the buildings. This proceeding spread such terror,

that Codrion, a strong and well fortified town, sur­

rendered to the Romans without a struggle. Leaving

a garrison there, he took Ilion by force, a name better

known than the town, on account of that of the same deno­

mination in Asia. As the lieutenant-general was return­

ing to the consul with a great quantity of spoil, Athe-

nagoras, one of the king's generals, falling on his rear,

in its passage over a river, threw it into disorder.

On hearing the shouting and tumult, Apustius rode

back in full speed, ordered the troops to face about,

and drew them up in order, with the baggage in the

centre. The king's troops could not support the on­

set of the Roman soldiers: so that many of them were

slain, and more made prisoners. The lieutenant-gene­

ral, having brought back the army without loss to the

consul, was ordered to return immediately to the fleet.

liv. vol. v. x

