294 livy.

a vast quantity of com, which Scipio had sent from

Africa, was distributed by them to the people, with

strict impartiality and general satisfaction, at the rate

of four asses a peck. The plebeian games were thrice

repeated intire by the plebeian ediles, Lucius Apus-

tius Fullo and Quintns Minucius Rufns; the latter

of whom was, from the edileship, elected pretor.

There was also a feast of Jove on occasion of the

games.

5. In the year five hundred and fifty-two from the

building of the city, [A.U.C. 552. B.C. 200] Publius

Sulpicius Galba and Caius Aurelius being consuls,

within a few months after the conclusion of the peace

with the Carthaginians, war began against king Philip.

This was the first business introduced by the consul,

Publius Sulpicius, on the ides of March, the day on

which, in those times, the consuls entered into office;

and the senate decreed that the consuls should per­

form sacrifices with the greater victims to such gods as

they should judge proper, with prayers to this pur­

pose :—that ' the business which the senate and people

of Rome had then under deliberation, concerning the

state, and the entering on a new war, might be attended

with success and prosperity to the Roman people, the

allies, and the Latine confederacy ;' and that, after the

sacrifices and prayers, they should consult the senate

on the state of public affairs and the provinces. At

this time, very opportunely for promoting a war, the

letters were brought from Marcus Aurelius, the am­

bassador, and Marcus Valerius Laevinus, propretor.

An embassy likewise arrived from the Athenians, to

acquaint them that the king was approaching their

frontiers, and that in a short time not only their lands,

but their city also, must fall into his hands, unless

they received aid from the Romans. When the con­

suls had made their report that the sacrifices had been

duly performed, and that the gods had accepted their

prayers; that the aruspices had declared that the en­

trails showed good omens, and that enlargement of

territory, victory, and triumph were portended, the

