HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXVIII. 89

if in Tellers, to slaughter. The targeteers of the Celti-

berians being thus almost intirely cut off, the light

troops and the Carthaginians, who had come from the

other camp to support them, were quickly routed and

put to the sword. About two thousand foot and all

the cavalry fled with Mago at the very onset. Hanno,

the other general, and those who came up last, after

the battle was decided, were taken alive. Almost the

whole of the cavalry, and what veteran infantry they

bad, following Mago in his flight, came on the tenth

day to Hasdrubal in the province of Gades: the Celti-

berian soldiers, being newly levied, dispersed into the

neighboring woods, and thence escaped to their re­

spective homes. By this seasonable victory was sup­

pressed a war, which was not of so much importance

on account of its present magnitude, as of its being a

foundation from which one much more considerable

might have arisen, had the enemy been allowed, after

having roused the Celtiberians to arms, to persuade

the other stales to join in the same cause. Scipio,

therefore, having bestowed liberal commendations on

Silamis, and seeing reason to hope that he might be

able to finish the dispute at once by exerting himself

with proper activity, advanced into Farther Spain

against Hasdrubal. The Carthaginian (who happened

at that time to have his army in Baetica, for the pur­

pose of securing the fidelity of his allies in that coun­

try), decamping hastily, led it away, in a manner much

more resembling a flight than a march, quite to the

ocean and Gades. He was fearful, however, that as

long as he kept bis forces together, he should be con­

sidered as the primary object of the enemy's opera­

tions. Before he passed over the strait to Gades, he

therefore dispersed them into the different cities; in

the view, likewise, that they might provide for their

own safety by help of walls, and for that of the towns

by their arms.

3. When Scipio found that the enemy's troops were

thus widely scattered, and that the carrying about

his own to each of the several cities would be a very

