HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXX. 233

which were sufficiently powerful over the mind of her

lover, but by prayers and appeals to his compassion;

with tears having beseeched him not lo forsake her

father and her country, nor suffer Carthage to be

burned as the camps had been. Add to this, some

new ground of hope, which offered itself very season­

ably, the ambassadors acquainting him that they had

met, near the city called Abba, four thousand Celtibe-

rians, able young men, who had been enlisted by their

recruiting parties in Spain, and that Hasdrubal would

speedily arrive with a body of troops far from con­

temptible. Syphax not only gave a favorable answer

to the Carthaginians, but showed them a multitude of

Numidian peasants, to whom he had, within a few

days, given arms and horses; and assured them also,

that he would call out all the youth in his kingdom;

observing, that 'their loss had been occasioned by

fire, not by battle; and that he only who was defeated

by arms ought to be deemed inferior to his enemy.'

Such was his reply; and, a few days after, he and

Hasdrubal again joined their forces, when their whole

army amounted to about thirty thousand fighting men.

8. While Scipio gave his whole attention to the

siege of Utica, as if no farther hostilities were to be

apprehended from Syphax and the Carthaginians, and

was employed in bringing up his machines to the walls,

he was called away by the news of the war being re­

vived. Leaving, therefore, only a small number of

men on sea and land, to keep up the appearance of a

siege, he set out himself with the main body of the

army to meet the enemy. At first he took post on a

hill, distant about four miles from the king's camp.

On the day following, descending into the great plains,

as they are called, which lie under that hill, with a

body of cavalry, he spent the day in advancing fre­

quently to the enemy's posts, and provoking them by

slight skirmishes. For the two succeeding days, how­

ever, though irregular excursions were made by both

parties in turn, nothing worth notice was performed.

On the fourth day both armies came out to battle. The

