HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXX. 283

whose lot Italy fell, should receive two legions from

Marcus Sextius, pretor.

41. Publius Scipio's command in the province of

Africa was prolonged, with the armies which he then

had. To Marcus Valerius Falto, pretor, were decreed

the two legions in Bruttium, which Caius Livius had

commanded the preceding year. Publius jElius, pre­

tor, was to receive two legions in Sicily from Cneius

Tremellius. One legion, which had been under Pub­

lius Lentulus, propretor, was decreed to Marcus Fa-

bius, for Sardinia. The command in Etruria was con­

tinued to Marcus Servilius, consul of the former year,

with his own two legions. With regard to Spain, the

senate ordered, that whereas Lucius Cornelius Lentu­

lus and Lucius Manlius Acidinus had remained in that

country for several years, the consuls should therefore

make application to the tribunes, that, if they thought

proper, they should ask the people, whom they would

order to have charge in Spain; and that the person so

ordered should collect such a number of Romans out

of the two armies as would make up one legion, and

as many of the allies of the Latine confederacy as

would form fifteen cohorts; with which he should

conduct the business of the province; and that Lu­

cius Cornelius and Lucius Manlius shall lead home

the veteran soldiers to Italy. To the consul Cornelius

was decreed a squadron of fifty ships out of the two

fleets, one of which was under Cneius Octavins in

Africa, the other under Publius Vellius, guarding the

coast of Sicily; with liberty to take such of those ves­

sels as he might please. It was also decreed that Publius

Scipio should keep the fifty ships of war on his station

as before; and that if Cneius Octavius chose to conti­

nue in the command of these as heretofore, he should

have it for that year as propretor: that if Laelius

should be set at the head of the fleet, then Octavius

should return to Rome, and bring home such ships as

the proconsul had not occasion for. Ten ships of war

were also decreed to Marcus Fabius for Sardinia; and

the consuls were ordered to enlist two legions for the

