HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXXI. 297

the intire Peloponnesus under Lis dominion; even Ar-

gos itself, not more celebrated for its ancient glory

than for the death of Pyrrhus. Now compare our

situation. How much more florishing was Italy when

Pyrrhus attacked it! How much greater its strength,

possessing so many commanders, so many armies, which

the Punic war afterwards consumed! Yet was he able

to give it a violent shock, and advanced victorious al­

most to the gates of Rome: and not the Tarentines

only, and the inhabitants of that tract of Italy which

they call the greater Greece, whom you may suppose

to have been led by the similarity of language and

name, but the Lucanian, the Bruttian, and the Sam-

nite revolted from us. Do you believe that these

would continue quiet and faithful if Philip should

come over to Italy, because they continued faithful

afterwards, and during the Punic war? Be assured

those states will never fail to revolt from us, except

when there is no one to whom they can go over. If

you had disapproved of a Roman army passing into

Africa, you would this day have had Hannibal and the

Carthaginians to contend with in Italy. Let Macedo­

nia, rather than Italy, be the seat of war. Let the

cities and lands of the enemy be wasted with fire and

sword. We have already found, by experience, that

our arms are more powerful and more successful

abroad than at home. Go, and give your voices with

the blessing of the gods; and what the senate have

voted do you ratify by your order. This resolution is

recommended to you, not only by your consul, but

even by the immortal gods themselves; who, when I

offered sacrifice, and prayed that the issue of this war

might be happy and prosperous to me and to the se­

nate, to you and the allies and Latine confederates,

granted every omen of success and happiness.'

8. After this speech of Sulpicius, being sent to give

their votes, they declared for the war as he had pro­

posed. On which, in pursuance of a decree of the se­

nate, a supplication for three days was proclaimed by

the consuls; and prayers were offered to the gods at

