HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXX. 267

eluded at a juncture wherein your affairs florish, and

ours are distressed, reflects splendor and dignity on

you who grant it: to ns who request it, it is rather ne­

cessary than honorable. A certain peace is better and

safer than a victory in expectation: the former is in

your own disposal, the latter in that of the gods. Risk

not, on the chance of one hour, the happy successes of

so many years. When you consider your own strength,

recollect at the same time, the chances of war. Arms

there will be on both sides; but, on both sides, the

bodies that contend will be but human. Events less

correspond to men's expectations in war, than in any

other case whatever. Even supposing that you should

gain the victory in battle, the proportion of glory which

you would thereby acquire, in addition to what yon

may now securely enjoy on granting peace, would bo

by no means commensurate to that which you must lose,

should any misfortune happen to you. The chance of

but a single hour may destroy at once both the honors

which you have attained, and those for which you hope.

In the adjusting of matters, every thing, Publius Scipio,

will be in your own power; in the other case, you must

abide by the pleasure of the gods. Formerly, Marcus

Atilius, in this same land, would have been celebrated

among the few most extraordinary examples of bravery

and success, had he, when possessed of victory, granted

peace to the request of our fathers; but by setting no

bounds to his ambition, by laying no restraint on his

passions; in proportion to the height of glory to which

he had attained, was his fall dishonorable. Certainly

it is his right who grants peace, not his who sues for it,

to prescribe the terms; yet, perhaps, we might not be

deemed altogether inadequate to the estimation of what

degree of punishment should be inflicted on us. We

are ready to give up to you the possession of all those

places, on account of which the war was begun: Sicily,

Sardinia, Spain, with all the islands that lie in any

part of the sea between Africa and Italy. Let us, Car­

thaginians, confined within the shores of Africa, behold

you, since such is the will of the gods, extending your

