HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXVII. 53

plete victory. After taking eighteen ships, and dis­

persing the rest, he returned to Lilybaeum with abun­

dance of booty, acquired both on land and sea.

30. Philip, during this summer, brought assistance

to the Achieans, in compliance with their earnest jn-

treaties; for, on one side, Machanidas, tyrant of the

Lacedasmonians, harassed them continually by irrup­

tions from his territories, which lay contiguous to

theirs; and on another the jEtolians, transporting an

army in ships through the strait which runs between

Naupactus and Patrae, called by the neighboring inha­

bitants Rhios, had spread devastations through the

country. A report also prevailed that Attalus, king

of Asia, intended to come over into Europe, because

the jEtolians, in their last general council, had consti­

tuted him chief magistrate of their state. While Phi­

lip was, for all these reasons, marching down into

Greece, he was met at the city of Lamia by the JEto-

lians, under the command of Pyrrhias, who had been

created pretor for that year, conjointly with Attalus,

on account of the latter's absence. Besides their own

forces they had a body of auxiliaries sent by Attalus,

and about one thousand men from the Roman fleet of

Publius Sulpicius. Against this commander, and these

forces, Philip fought twice with success; and, in each

battle, slew at least one thousand. The jEtolians be­

ing so greatly dismayed as to keep themselves close

under the walls of Lamia, Philip led back his army to

Pbalara. This place, being situated on the Malian

bay, was formerly thickly inhabited, on account of its

excellent harbor, the safe anchorage on either side,

with other commodious circumstances, to which both

the sea and the land contributed. Hither came am­

bassadors from Ptolemy, king of Egypt, the RhodianS,

Athenians, and Chians, with intent to compose the dif­

ferences between Philip and the jEtolians. The jEto-

lians also invited a mediator from among their neigh­

bors, Amynander, king of Athamania. But the con­

cern of all was engaged, not so much by their regard

for the ^Etolians, who were remarkable for an arro-

