HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXVIII. 127

pio, well practised in wars, but utterly unacquainted

with the storms of intestine commotions, was filled with

anxiety on the occasion, fearing lest the army should

exceed all bounds in transgressing, or himself in pu­

nishing. For the present, he resolved to proceed as

he had begun, by gentle measures: having therefore

despatched collectors through the tributary states, he

received reason to hope to be soon able to discharge

the arrears. An order was then published, that the

troops should come to Carthage to receive their pay,

either in separate divisions or in one body, as they

should choose. The mutiny, of itself abating in vio­

lence among the Romans, was reduced to a state of

perfect tranquillity by the measures which the rebel­

lious Spaniards suddenly adopted. Mandonius and

Indibilis, on receiving information that Scipio was

alive, desisted from their undertaking, and returned

into their own country, as there was now remaining

neither countrymen nor foreigner to whom they could

look, up for a concurrence in their desperate scheme.

The soldiers, after revolving every plan, were of opi­

nion that they had nothing left, except (what is not

always the safest retreat from bad counsels) the sub­

mitting themselves either to the just anger of the ge­

neral, or to his clemency, of which it was thought they

need not despair. 'He had pardoned even enemies,

with whom he had been engaged in battle: their mu­

tiny had not been attended with any serious conse­

quences; no lives had been lost, nor had any blood

been shed: therefore, as it had not in itself been vio­

lent, it merited not a violent punishment.' Men's

minds are generally ingenious in palliating guilt in

themselves. They only hesitated, then, whether they

should go and demand their pay in single cohorts or in

a body. The majority voted that, as the safer way,

they should proceed in a body.

26. Whilst they were employed in these delibera­

tions a council was held at Carthage concerning them;

the members of which were divided in opinion, whether

the authors only of the mutiny, who were not more

