374 LIVY.

jEtolia and Acarnania; and on their sides, Locris

and Boeotia. Phanotea in Phocis he took without

difficulty at the first assault. The siege of Anticyra

gave him not much delay. Then Ambrysis and Hyam-

polis were taken. Daulis, being situated on a lofty

eminence, could not be reduced either by scalade or

works: he therefore provoked the garrison by missile

weapons to make sallies from out the town. Then by

flying at one time, pursuing at another, and engaging

in slight skirmishes, he led them into such a degree

of carelessness, and such a contempt of him, that at

length the Romans, mixing with them as they ran

back, entered by the gates, and stormed the town. Six

other fortresses in Phocis, of little consequence, came

into his hands, through fear rather than by force of

arms. Elatia shut its gates, and the inhabitants seemed

determined not to admit within their walls either the

army or the general of the Romans, unless compelled

by force.

19. While the consul was employed in the siege of

Elatia, a prospect opened to him of effecting a business

of much more importance; of being able to prevail on

the Achaeans to renounce their alliance with Philip,

and attach themselves to the Romans. Gycliades, the

head of the faction that favored the interest of Philip,

they had now banished; and Aristainus, who wished

for a union between his countrymen and the Romans,

was pretor. The Roman fleet, with Attalus and the

Rhodians, lay at Cenchrea, and were preparing to lay

siege to Corinth with their whole combined force. The

consul therefore judged it prudent that, before they

entered on that affair, ambassadors should be sent to

the Aohasan state, with assurances that if they came

over from the king to the side of the Romans, the latter

would consign Corinth to them, and annex it to the

old confederacy of their nation. Accordingly, by the

consul's direction, ambassadors were sent to the Achas-

ans, by his brother Lucius Quintius, by Attalus, and

by the Rhodians and Athenians—a general assembly

being summoned to meet at Sicyon to give them audi­

