HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXXI. 295

letters of Valerius and Aurelius were read, and audi­

ence given to the ambassadors of the Athenians. After

which a decree of the senate was passed, that thanks

should be given to their allies, because, though long

solicited, they had not been prevailed on, even by'

dread of a siege, to depart from their engagements.

With regard to sending assistance to them, they re­

solved that an answer should be given as soon as the

consuls should have cast lots for the provinces, and

when the consul to whose lot Macedonia fell should

have proposed to the people to declare war against

Philip, king of the Macedonians.

6. The province of Macedonia fell by lot to Publius

Sulpicius; and he proposed to the people to declare,

'that they chose and ordered, that on account of the

injuries and hostilities committed against the allies of

the Roman people, war should be proclaimed against

king Philip and the Macedonians under his govern­

ment.' The province of Italy fell to the lot of the

other consul, Aurelius. The pretors then cast lots:

to Cneius Sergius Plancus fell the city jurisdiction;

to Quintus Fulvius Gillo, Sicily; to Quintus Minucius

Rufus, Bruttium; and to Lucius Furius Purpureo.

Gaul. At the first meeting of the people the proposal

concerning the Macedonian war was rejected by al­

most all the tribes. This was occasioned partly by the

people's own inclinations, who, wearied by the length

and severity of the late war, longed to be freed from

toils and dangers; and partly by Quintus B;ebius, tri­

bune of the people, who, pursuing the old practice of

criminating the patricians, charged them with multi­

plying wars one after another, so that the people could

never enjoy peace. This proceeding gave great offence

to the patricians, and the tribune was severely repre­

hended in the senate, where all earnestly recommended

it to the consul to call a new assembly for passing the

proposal; to rebuke the backwardness of the people;

and to prove to them how highly detrimental and dis­

honorable it would be to decline engaging in that war.

7. The consul having assembled the people in the

