124 LIVY.

and one five-banked galley, that they might act in con­

cert both by land and sea in the execution of the busi­

ness.

24. Scipio was seized with a severe fit of sickness;

and the danger being magnified by report, (every one,

through the natural propensity to exaggeration, add­

ing something to what he had heard,) the whole pro­

vince, more especially the distant parts of it, were

thrown into disorder; which showed what important

consequences must have attended the real loss of him,

when the rumor of his illness alone could excite such

storms. Neither the allies continued faithful, nor the

army obedient to command. Mandonius and Indibilis,

who had entertained confident expectations that, on the

expulsion of the Carthaginians, the dominion of Spain

would fall into their hands, being intirely disappointed

in all their hopes, called together their countrymen of

Laceta and Illiturgi; sent for the young men of Celti-

beria to assist them, and carried hostilities and devas­

tation into the territories of the Suessetanians and Se-

detanians, allies of the Roman people. Another com­

motion arose in the camp at Sucro, where there were

eight thousand Romans stationed to secure the obedi­

ence of the nations bordering on the Iberus. Their

disposition to mutiny did not take its rise from the un­

certain accounts of the general's life being in danger;

it had sprung up some time before, from the licentious­

ness incident to a long state of inaction, and partly

from their circumstances being straitened during peace,

having been accustomed during the war to live more

plentifully on plunder. At first they only expressed

their dissatisfaction in private discourses: 'If there

was a war in the province, what business had they

there, among people who were at peace? If the war

was already ended, why were they not carried back to

Italy?' They also demanded their pay with a peremp-

toriness unbecoming the condition of soldiers, while

those on guard used to throw out abuse on the tribunes

as they went their nightly rounds. Favored by the

darkness, some bad even gone out and plundered the

