44 LIVY.

day take all the children of the senators. He then di­

rected all the military tribunes, prefects of the allies,

and centurions, to guard the gates carefully, that no

one might go out of the city in the night. This was

not performed with proper care and diligence; for,

before the guards were posted at the gates, or night

came on, seven principal senators made their escape

with their children. At the first light, on the day

following, the senate being summoned into the forum,

they were missed, and their property was sold. From

the rest of the senators one hundred and twenty hos­

tages were received, who were their own children, and

they were delivered to Caius Terentius to be con­

ducted to Rome. He represented every thing to the

senate in such a light as greatly increased their suspi­

cions; wherefore, as if the hostile intentions of the

Etrurians were no longer to be doubted, an order was

given to Caius Terentius himself to lead one of the

city legions to Arretium, and to keep it there, as a

garrison to the city. It was at the same time deter­

mined that Caius Hostilius, with the rest of the troops,

should make a circuit through the whole province;

that those who wished to excite disturbances might

have no opportunity of putting their designs in exe­

cution. When Caius Terentius, with the legion, ar-^

rived at Arretium, and demanded from the magistrates

the keys of the gates, they told him that they were

not to be found; but he believing rather that they had

been put out of the way through some evil design,

than lost through negligence, put on new locks, mak­

ing use of every precaution to keep all things under

his own power. He earnestly cautioned Hostilius not

to expect to retain the Etrurians in quiet by any other

means than by putting it out of their power to stir.

25. About this time the business of the Tarentines

occasioned a warm debate in the senate, where Fabius

was present, exerting himself in favor of those whom

he had subdued by arms, while others spoke of them

with much asperity, charging them as equal in guilt,

and deserving equal punishment with the Campanians,

