HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXVII. 27

the very entrance of the gate, so that the men were

obliged to make their way over the trench and ram­

part. Here the slaughter of the enemy was the great­

est. There were killed no less than eight thousand

men, and five elephants. Nor did the Romans gain

the victory without loss of blood: of the two legions,

about one thousand seven hundred were killed, and of

the allies above one thousand three hundred. Great

numbers, both of Romans and allies, were wounded.

In the following night Hannibal decamped, and though

Marcellus wished to pursue him, he was prevented by

his wounded, which were in great number. Scouts,

who were sent to observe his march, brought intelli­

gence next day that Hannibal had taken the road to­

wards Bruttium.

15. About the same time the Hirpinians, Lucanians,

and Volscians, surrendered themselves to the consul

Quintus Fulvius, delivering up Hannibal's garrisons

which they had in their cities, and were mildly re­

ceived by the consul with only a verbal reproof for

their past errors. Hopes of similar gentle treatment

were held out to the Bruttians also, through two bro­

thers, Vibius and Pactius, of the most illustrious fa­

mily of any in that nation, who came to request the

same terms of capitulation which were granted to the

Lucanians. The other consul, Quintus Fabius, took

by assault Manduria, a town in the territory of Sal-

lentum. Here he made four thousand prisoners, and

gained much booty of other kinds. Proceeding thence

to Tarentum, he pitched his camp at the very mouth of

the harbor. Of the ships, which Livius had kept here

for the purpose of protecting convoys, he loaded part

with machines and implements fit for assailing walls;

the rest he furnished with engines, stones, and missile

weapons of every kind; the storeships also, not con­

fining himself to such only as were moved by oars, be

fitted out in the same manner, in order that some might

bring out the machines and ladders to the walls, while

the others, from their ships at some distance, should

annoy with missile weapons the men employed in de-

