330 LIVY.

Neither doubted, as soonas the noise of men and horses

was heard at a distance, that an enemy approached:

therefore before they came within sight of each other,

they got their arms in readiness, and the moment they

met, both hastened eagerly to engage. As they hap­

pened to be nearly equal in number and valor, being

picked men on both sides, they fought during several

hours with vigor, until fatigue, both of men and horses,

put an end to the fight, without deciding the victory.

Of the Macedonians, there fell forty horsemen; of

the Romans thirty-five. Still, however, neither party

was able to carry back any certain information in what

quarter the camp of his enemy lay. But this was soon

made known to them by deserters; of whom, either

through restlessness, or the prospect of reward, a suffi­

cient number are found, in every war, to discover the

affairs of the contending parties.

34. Philip, judging that it would tend considerably

towards conciliating the affections of his men, and in­

duce them to face danger more readily on his account,

if he bestowed some pains on the burial of the horse­

men, who fell in that expedition, ordered them to be

conveyed into the camp, in order that all might be

spectators of the honors paid them at their funeral.

Nothing is so uncertain or so difficult to form a judgment

of, as the minds of the multitude. The very measures

which seem calculated to increase their alacrity, in ex­

ertions of every sort, often inspire them with fear and

timidity. Accordingly those, who, being always ac­

customed to fight with Greeks and Illyrians, had only

seen wounds made with javelins and arrows, seldom

even by lances, came to behold bodies dismembered

by the Spanish sword, some with their arms lopped off,

or, the neck intirely cut through, heads severed from

the trunk, and the bowels laid open, with other shock­

ing circumstances which the present warfare had

wrought: they therefore perceived, with horror,

against what weapons and what men they were to

fight. Even the king himself was seized with appre­

hensions, having never yet engaged the Romans in

