226 LIVY.

creed in regard to the province of Bruttium, was or­

dered to be followed in respect of Etruria and Liguria.

Marcus Cornelius was ordered to deliver the army to

the new consul; and, his command being continued,

to hold the proviuce of Gaul, with those legions which

Lucius Scribonius, pretor, had commanded the year

before. The consuls then cast lots for the provinces:

Bruttium fell to Caspio, Etruria to Servilius Geminus.

The provinces of the pretors were next put to the lot:

Paetus iElius obtained the city jurisdiction; Cneius

Lentulus, Sardinia; Publius Villius, Sicily; Quin-

tilius Varus, Ariminum, with two legions, which had

been under Lucretius Spurius. Lucretius remained

on his station, in order that he might rebuild the city

of Genoa, which had been'demolished by Mago the

Carthaginian. Publius Scipio's command was conti­

nued, not for a period limited by time, but by the bu­

siness, until an end should be put to the war in Africa;

and it was decreed that a supplication should he per­

formed, to obtain from the gods, that his having

passed into Africa might prove happy to the people, to

the general himself, and to the army.

2. Three thousand men were raised for Sicily; and

because whatever strength it had possessed was car­

ried over to Carthage, it was resolved that the coast

of that island should be guarded by forty ships, lest

any fleet should come thither from Africa. Villius

carried with him to Sicily thirteen new ships; the rest

were old ones repaired there. Marcus Pomponius,

pretor of the former year (his command of this fleet

being continued), took on board the new soldiers. An

equal number of ships were decreed by the senate to

Cneius Octavius, pretor likewise of the former year,

with the same right of command, in order to protect

the coast of Sardinia. Lentulus, pretor, was ordered

to supply the fleet with two thousand soldiers. The

defence of the coast of Italy was intrusted to Marcus

Marcius, pretor of the former year, with the same

number of ships; because it was uncertain to what

place the Carthaginians might direct their attack,

