HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXX. 247

peace. That, however, although he had conquest within

his reach, yet he did not reject peace; that all nations

might know that the Roman people were guided by the

principles of justice, both in undertaking and concluding

wars. That these were the terms of peace which he

prescribed:—that they should give up the prisoners,

deserters, and fugitives; withdraw their armies from

Italy and Gaul'; renounce all pretensions to Spain;

retire from all the islands which lie between Italy and

Africa; deliver up all their ships of war, except twenty,

and furnish five hundred thousand measures of wheat,

and three hundred thousand of barley.' What sum of

money he demanded, authors are not agreed. In some,

I find five thousand talents;i in others, five thousand

pounds weight of silver; while it is also said that

double pay of the troops was imposed. 'Three days,'

said he, ' shall be allowed you to consider whether you

approve of peace on these conditions. If you do ap­

prove of it, then make a truce with me, and send am­

bassadors to Rome to the senate.' The Carthaginians,

thus dismissed, thought it advisable to submit to any

terms, as the only object they had in view was to gain

time, until Hannibal should come over to Africa; and

therefore they sent ambassadors to Scipio, to conclude

a truce, and others to Rome to solicit peace. These

carried with them a few prisoners, deserters, and fugi­

tives, to make a show of obedience, and that they might

attain their object with the less difficulty.

17. Laalius with Syphax and the principal Numidian

prisoners arrived at Rome several days before them,

and related, in order, to the senate the several trans­

actions which had passed in Africa. Great was the

rejoicing on account of the present state of affairs,

and the most sanguine hopes were entertained with re­

spect to the future. The senate then, on the business

being proposed, ordered that the king should be sent

prisoner to Alba, and that Laelius should be detained

until the arrival of the Carthaginian ambassadors. A

'1,968,750/.

