HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXIX. 183

they came to a resolution of sending as ambassadors to

him Marcus Valerius Lasvinus, who had been twice

consul, and had commanded in Greece; Marcus Cae-

cilius Metellus, who had been pretor; Servius Sulpi-

cius Galba, who had been edile; and two who had

been questors, Caius Tremellius Flaccus and Marcus

Valerius Falto. A convoy of five quiuqueremes was

ordered for them, that they might appear with suit­

able grandeur in those countries where they wished to

procure a respect for the Roman name. The ambassa­

dors in their way to Asia, having landed and gone to

Delphi to the oracle, inquired what hopes might be

entertained of accomplishing the business on which

they had been sent: they were answered, it is said,

that ' they would obtain what they were in search of

by means of king Attalus; and that when they should

have carried the goddess to Rome, they were to take

care that the best man in the city was the exerciser of

the laws of hospitality towards her.' On coming to

the king at Pergamus, he received them kindly, con­

ducted them to Pessinus in Phrygia, delivered to them

the sacred stone, which the natives said was the mo­

ther of the gods, and desired them to convey it to

Rome. Marcus Valerius Falto, being sent homeward

before the rest, brought an account that they were re­

turning with the goddess; and that the best man in

Rome must be sought out to pay her the due rites of

hospitality. Quintus Caecilius Metellus was, by the

consul in Bruttium, nominated dictator, for the pur­

pose of holding the elections, and his army was dis­

banded. Lucius Veturius Philo was made master of

the horse. The elections were held by the dictator:

the consuls elected were Marcus Cornelius Cethegus

and Publius Sempronius Tuditanus, the latter absent,

being employed in the province of Greece. The pre-

tors were then elected: Tiberius Claudius Nero, Mar­

cus Marcius Rolla, Lucius Scribonius Libo, and Mar­

cus Pomponius Matho. As soon as the elections were

finished, the dictator resigned his office. The Roman

games were repeated thrice, the plebeian seven times.

