HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXXII. 377

proposed to our consideration) the speeches of the am­

bassadors delivered yesterday; supposing, for a mo­

ment, the speakers not to have required what was use­

ful to themselves, but to have recommended what they

thought most conducive to our advantage. The Ro­

mans, the Rhodians, and Attalus, request an alliance

and friendship with us; and they demand to be assisted

in the war which they are now engaged in against

Philip. Philip reminds us of our league with him,

and of the obligation of our oath: he requires only

that we declare ourselves on his side; and says he

will be satisfied if we do not intermeddle in the opera­

tions of the war. Who is there so short-sighted as not

to perceive the reason why those, who are not yet our

allies, require more than he who is? This arises not

from modesty in Philip, nor from the want of it in the

Romans. The Achaean harbors show what it is, which,

while it bestows confidence to requisitions on one side,

precludes it on the other. We see nothing belonging

to Philip but his ambassador: the Roman fleet lies at

Cenchrea, exhibiting to our view the spoils of the ci­

ties of Eubosa. We behold the consul and his legions,

at the distance of a small tract of sea, overrunning

Phocis and Locris. You were surprised at Philip's

ambassador, Cleomedon, showing such diffidence yes­

terday in his application to us to take arms on the side

of the king against the Romans. But if we, in pursu­

ance of the same treaty and oath, the obligation of

which he inculcated on us, were to ask of him that

Philip should protect us, both from Nabis and his La­

cedaemonians, and also from the Romans, he would be

utterly unable to find, not only a force for the purpose,

but even an answer to return. As much so, in truth,

as was Philip himself, who endeavored, by promises of

waging war against Nabis, to draw away our youth

into Euboea: but finding that we would neither decree

such assistance to him, nor choose to be embroiled with

Rome, forgot that alliance on which he now lays such

stress, and left us to the Lacedaemonians to be spoiled

and plundered. Besides, to me the arguments of Cleo­

