224 LIVY.

person twice in the treasury list, he would have in­

serted his name particularly. The contest between

the censors, thus mutually reproaching each other,

was shameful; while the rebuke given to the giddi­

ness of the people was highly becoming a censor, and

the strict principles of that age. The censors having

fallen into disrepute, Cneius Baebius, tribune of the

people, thinking that their situation afforded him an

opportunity of gaining notice, summoned them both to

a trial before the people; but the senate interfered,

and stopped any farther proceedings, lest the office af

censor should in future be subjected to the humor of

the populace.

38. During the same summer the consul took Clam-

petia in Bruttium by storm. Consentia and Pandosia,

with other towns of small consequence, surrendered

voluntarily; and, as the time of the elections drew

near, it was thought more expedient to call home Cor­

nelius from Etruria, where there was no employment

for his arms. He elected Cneius Servilius Caapio and

Cneius Servilius Geminus. The election of the pre-

tors was then held: there were chosen Cneius Corne­

lius Lentulus, Publius Quintilius Varus, Publius

jElius Partus, and Publius Villius Tappulus; al­

though the two latter were ediles of the commons.

The consul, as soon as the elections were over, returned

into Etruria to his army. The priests who died that

year, and those who were substituted in the places of

others, were Tiberius Veturius Philo, flamen of Mars,

elected and inaugurated in the room of Marcus JEmi-

lius Regillus, deceased the year before. In the room

of Marcus Pomponius Matho, augur and decemvir,

were elected, as decemvir, Marcus Aurelius Cotta;

as augur, Tiberius Sempronius Gracchus, who was

then very young; an instance in those times extremely

rare in the disposal of a priest's office. Golden cha­

riots, with four horses, were that year placed in the

capitol by the curule ediles, Caius Livius and Mar­

cus Servilius Geminus. The Roman games were re­

peatedly exhibited for two days. In like manner the

