16 LIVY.

and, with the other, he himself took charge of the rest

of it, separated formerly by the boundaries of the Ro­

man and Carthaginian dominions. He likewise made

division of the fleet, which consisted of seventy sail, in

order that they might extend their protection of the

coasts round the whole circumference of the island.

Attended by the cavalry of Mutines, he went in person

through e-'ery part of the province, to view the lands,

observe-' hat parts were cultivated, and what were not,

comnr'i' ing or reproving the owners accordingly. In

conseC'ence of his care in this particular, such an

abundance of corn was produced that, besides sending

a quantity to Rome, he conveyed to Catana a sufficient

supply for the army, which was to be employed during

the summer at Tarentum.

9. But the transportation of those soldiers into Sicily,

the greater part of whom were Latines and allies, was

very near proving the cause of formidable disturbances;

so true it is, that the issues of great affairs often depend

on trivial circumstances: for the Latines and allies, in

their meetings, began to murmur that ' they had now

for ten years been drained by levies and contributions.

That generally every year they suffered great losses in

the war. Many were slain in the field, many were

cut off by sickness; and that every one of their coun­

trymen, enlisted as a soldier by the Romans, was more

effectually lost to them, than if he were taken prisoner

by the Carthaginians; because the latter was sent back,

without ransom, to his country, whereas the other was

ordered by the Romans out of Italy, into banishment

indeed, rather than to military service. The troops of

Cannae were now growing old in that situation, having

been in it nearly eight years, and would end their lives

before the enemy, whose strength was at the present in

a state particularly florishing, would retire out of Italy.

Jf veteran soldiers were not to return home, and still

new ones to be enlisted, there would not, in a short

time, be one of that description remaining. Where­

fore it was become necessary, before they should be

reduced to the last degree of desolation and want, to

