244 LIVY.

curbed and reduced his passions to subjection has

really acquired to himself much greater glory, and a

far more honorable victory, than that which we now

enjoy in our conquest of Syphax. The instances of

courage and conduct, which you displayed while I was

not present, I have mentioned with pleasure, and I re­

tain a proper sense of them. As to other matters, I

rather wish that you would review them in your own

mind, than that you should blush at my recital of them.

Syphax has been subdued and taken under the auspices

of the Roman people: therefore he, his wife, his king­

dom, his territories, his towns, and the inhabitants of

them; in short, whatever was the property of Syphax

is now the prize of that people. Both the king and his

wife, even though she were not a citizen of Carthage,

and we had not seen her father heading the enemy's

army, ought to have been sent to Rome, where the

Roman state should have had the power of judging aud

determining concerning her-—a woman who is said to

have seduced a king in alliance with us, and to

have precipitated him into the war. Restrain your

feelings. Beware, lest by one vice you disparage a

number of good qualities, and destroy the credit of so

many meritorious deeds by a fault, too great to be

palliated, even by the occasion of it.'

15. On hearing this discourse, not only Masinissa's

countenance was suffused with blushes, but he even

burst into tears; and after declaring that 'in future

he would be directed intirely by Scipio,' and intreat-

ing him, ' as far as the affair would permit, to consider

the obligation into which he had rashly entered, not to

give the queen into the power of any one,' he retired in

confusion from the general's tent to his own. There,

dismissing his attendants, he spent some time in sighs

and moans, which could be heard distinctly by those

who stood without. At last, having uttered a deep

groan, he called one of his servants, in whom he con­

fided, and who had the charge of the poison, which,

according to the custom of kings, is kept against the

uncertainties of fortune, and ordered him to mix some

