24 LIVY.

them, 'as matters have turned out, I praise and thank

the immortal gods, that the victorious enemy did not

assault our camp itself, while you were hurrying into

the gates and over the rampart in such utter dismay.

You would certainly have abandoned that, through the

same panic that made you give up the battle. What

fright is this? What terror, what forgetfulness both

of your own character and that of your adversaries,

has at once seized your minds? Surely they are the

same enemies, in defeating and pursuing of whom you

spent the whole of the last summer; who for some

days past have fled before you night and day, white

you pressed on their rear; whom yesterday you did

not allow either to continue their march, or to form

their camp. I say nothing of the advantages on which

you ought to pride yourselves; but will mention what,

of itself, ought to fill you with shame and remorse:

yesterday you fought it out to the end on equal terms.

What alteration has last night, what has this day

made? Have your forces been diminished; have theirs

been augmented? I cannot persuade myself that I am

speaking to my own army, or to Roman soldiers. The

arms and appearances of the men are such as usual.

But, if yon had possessed the usual spirit, would the

enemy have seen your backs? Would he have carried

off a standard from any one company or cohort? Hi­

therto, he has boasted of putting our legions to the

sword; you, this day, have been the first who have

conferred on him the glory of putting a Roman army

to flight.' On this the troops universally besought

him to pardon their behavior of {hat day; and in-

treated him, whenever he pleased, to make another

trial of the courage of his soldiers. 'I will try you,

soldiers,' said he, ' and to-morrow will lead you into

the field, that in the character of conquerors, not of

vanquished men, you may obtain the pardon which

,you desire.' He then ordered that the cohorts which

bad lost their standards should receive barley for their

allowance, and the centurions of the companies whose

standards had been lost he deprived of their swords;

