HISTORY OF ROME.— BOOK XXXI. 325

their country; adding, that ' they did not complain on

account of having, from an enemy, suffered hostile

treatment; for there were certain rights of war, ac­

cording to which, as it was just to act, so it was just

to endure. Their crops being burned, their houses

demolished, their men and cattle carried off as spoil,

were to be considered rather as misfortunes to the

sufferer, than as ill treatment. But of this they had

good reason to complain, that he who called the

Romans foreigners and barbarians, had so atrociously

violated, himself, all rights both divine and human, as,

in his former inroad, to have waged an impious war

against the infernal gods, in the latter against those

above. That every sepulchre and monument within

their country was demolished, the graves torn open,

and the bones left uncovered. There had been seve­

ral temples, which, in former times, when their an­

cestors dwelt in the country in their separate districts,

had been consecrated in each of their little forts and

villages, and which, even after they were incorporated

into one city, they did not neglect or forsake. Every

one of these sacred edifices had Philip destroyed by

fire, and left the images of the gods lying scorched and

mutilated among the prostrated pillars of the temples.

Such as he had rendered the country of Attica, for­

merly opulent, and adorned with improvements, such,

if he were suffered, would he render jEtolia and every

part of Greece. That Athens, also, would have been

reduced to the same ruinous state, if the Romans had

not come to its relief: for he had shown the same

wicked rage against the gods, who are the guardians

of the city, and Minerva, who presides over the

citadel; the same against the temple of Ceres at

Eleusis; the same against Jupiter and Minerva at

Pirasus. In a word, having been repelled by force of

arms, not only from their temples, but even from their

walls, he had vented his fury on those sacred edifices,

which had no defence but in the respect due to reli­

gion. They therefore intreated and besought the

jEtolians, that, compassionating the Athenians, and

. following the guidance of the gods, and, under them,

