HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXVII. 26

commanding that all, both infantry and cavalry, should

be ready under arms on the following day. The as­

sembly was now dismissed, all acknowleging that the

reproofs which they had received were not more se­

vere than they deserved; for that no person in the

Roman army had, that day, behaved like a man, ex­

cept the general alone, to whom they ought to make

atonement, either by their death or by a glorious vic­

tory. On the day following they attended according

to orders, armed and accoutred. The general then

commended them, and said, that ' he would bring for­

ward, into the first line, those who had fled first the

day before, and the cohorts which had lost their stan­

dards; that he now gave notice, that it was incumbent

on them to fight and to conquer, and to exert them­

selves vigorously, one and all, to prevent the news of

yesterday's flight reaching Rome before that of the

present day's triumph.' They were then ordered to

refresh themselves with food, that in case the fight

-should last longer than usual, they might have strength  
to go through it. After every thing had been said and

done to rouse the courage of the soldiers, they marched

out to the field.

14. When this was told to Hannibal, he said, ' We

have to deal with an enemy who can neither bear good

fortune nor bad: if he gets the better, he pursues the

vanquished with presumption and vehemence: if he is

worsted, he renews the contest with the victors.' Hie

then ordered the signal to be sounded, and led out

his forces. Both parties fought now with much more

vigor than the day before; the Carthaginians strug­

gling to maintain the glory acquired yesterday, the

Romans to remove their disgrace. On the side of the

Romans, the left wing and the cohorts which had lost

their standards, fought in the front line; while the

twentieth legion was drawn up on the right wing.

Lucius Cornelius Lentulus, and Cains Claudius Nero,

lieutenants-general, commanded the wings; Marcellus

himself took the charge of the centre, that he might

animate the men by his presence, and be an immediate

