HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXVII. 71

his camp at the distance of about fifteen hundred paces

from the enemy. From hence the rampart of the Car­

thaginians seemed to be almost close to the wall of

Grumentum; the actual distance, however, was five

hundred paces. Between the Carthaginian and Ro­

man camps the ground was level; and on the left-

hand side of the Carthaginians, and right of the Ro­

mans, stood some naked hills, from which neither

party apprehended any mischief, because there were

no woods, nor any covering for an ambuscade. Par­

ties sallying from the advanced posts fought several

skirmishes of little consequence. It appeared plainly

that the Roman general had no other object in view

than to hinder the enemy from quitting the place;

while Hannibal, wishing to get away, frequently drew

out bis whole strength, and offered battle. On this

occasion the consul adopted the crafty genius of his

adversary; and, as there could be little apprehension

of a surprise, the hills being open, and having been

examined by his scouts, he ordered five cohorts, with

five additional companies, to pass over their summit

in the night, and conceal themselves in the valleys on

the other side. The time when they were to rise from

their ambush he settled with Tiberius Claudius Asel-

lus, military tribune, and Publius Claudius, prefect

of the allies, whom he sent at their head. He him­

self, at the dawn of day, drew out all his forces, both

foot and horse, into the field. In a short time after

Hannibal also, on his side, displayed the signal for

battle, and a great noise ensued in his camp, while the

men ran hastily to arms. Then all, both horse and

foot, rushed eagerly out of the gates, and scattering

themselves over the plain, advanced hastily to attack

the enemy. The consul, observing them in this dis­

order, commanded Caius Aurunculeius, tribune of the

third legion, to make his cavalry charge them with all

possible fury, remarking, that ' they had spread them­

selves like cattle over the plain, and in such confusion

that, before they could be formed, they might be ridden

down and trodden under foot.'

