HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXIX. 211

according to the custom of the Numidians, came to the

king's brother iEsalces, who was far advanced in years.

In a short time after, jEsalces also dying, Capusa, the

elder of his two sons, the other of whom was very

young, got possession of his father's dominions: but

his title being supported, more by the regard paid to

the right of descent, than from any respect to his cha­

racter, or any strength which he possessed, there stood

forth a person called Mezetulus, related by blood in

some degree to the royal family. His progenitors,

however, had always opposed their interests, and their

issue had, with various success, disputed the throne

with the branch then in possession. This man, having

roused his countrymen to arms, among whom his in­

fluence was great, by reason of their dislike to the

reigning dynasty, levied open war; so that the king

was obliged to take the field, and fight for the crown.

In that battle Capusa fell, together with a great number

of the principal men of the kingdom; while the whole

nation of the Massylians submitted to the dominion

and government of Mezetulus. He did not however

assume the regal title; but satisfied with the modest

one of Protector, gave the name of king to the boy

Lacumaces, the surviving son of him whom he had

slain. In hopes of procuring an alliance with the Car­

thaginians, he took to wife a Carthaginian woman of

distinction, daughter of Hannibal's sister, formerly

married to king jEsalces; and sending ambassadors to

Syphax, renewed with him an old connexion of hospi­

tality, endeavoring, by all these measures, to secure a

support against Masiuissa.

30. On the other hand, Masinissa, hearing that bis

uncle was dead, and afterwards that his cousin-german

was slain, came over from Spain into Mauritania. The.

king of the Moors at that time was Bocchar: applying

to him as a suppliant, he obtained, by the humblest in-

treaties, four thousand Moors to escort him on his

journey, not being able to prevail for any aid in the

war. When he arrived with these on the frontiers of

the kingdom, as he had before despatched messengers

