HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXXII. 353

many years in Spain, Sicily, and Sardinia; to Quintus

Minucius, that he might finish the inquiries concerning

the conspiracies in Bruttium, which, while pretor, he

had managed with care and fidelity. That he should

also send to Locri, to suffer punishment, those who

had been convicted of sacrilege, and who were then in

chains at Rome; taking care, at the same time, that

whatever had been carried away from the temple of

Proserpine should be replaced, and proper atonements

made. The Latine festival was repeated in pursuance

of a decree of the pontiffs, because ambassadors from

Ardea had complained to the senate, that during the

said solemnity they had not been supplied with meat

as usual. From Suessa an account was brought, that

two of the gates, and the wall between them, were

struck with lightning. Messengers from Formiae re足

lated, that the temple of Jupiter was also struck by

lightning; from Ostia, likewise, news came of the like

accident having happened to the temple of Jupiter

there; it was said, too, that the temples of Apollo and

Sancus, at Veliternum, were struck in like maimer;

and that in the temple of Hercules, hair grew on the

statue. A letter was received from Quintus Minucius,

propretor, from Bruttium, that a foal had been born

with five feet, and three chickens with three feet each.

Afterwards a letter was brought from Macedonia, from

Publius Sulpicius, proconsul, in which, among other

matters, it was mentioned, that a laurel-tree had

sprung up on the poop of a ship of war. On occasion

of the former prodigies, the senate had voted, that the

consuls should offer sacrifices with the greater victims,

to such gods as they thought proper. On account of the

last prodigy, alone, the aruspices were called before

the senate, and, in pursuance of their answer, the peo足

ple were ordered by proclamation to perform a suppli足

cation for one day, and worship was solemnised at all

the shrines.

2. This year the Carthaginians brought to Rome the

first payment of the silver imposed on them as a tri足

bute; and the questors having reported that it was not

liv. vol. v. z

