368 LIVY.

fort conveniently situated on the confines of Dolopia.

All this the /Etolians performed within the space of a

few days.

14. Amynander and the Athamanians, when they

heard of the victory obtained by the Romans, conti­

nued not inactive. Amynander, having little confi­

dence in his own troops, requested aid from the con­

sul; and then advancing towards Gomphi, he stormed

on his march a place called Pheca, situate between

that town and the narrow pass which separates Thes-

saly from Athamania. He then attacked Gomphi,

and though the inhabitants defended it for several

days with the utmost vigor, yet, as soon as he had

raised the scaling-ladders to the walls, the same ap­

prehensions which had operated on others, made them

capitulate. This capture of Gomphi spread the great­

est consternation among the Thessalians: their for­

tresses of Argenta, Pherinus, Thimarus, Lisinae, Sti-

mon, and Lampsus, surrendered, one after another,

with several other garrisons equally inconsiderable.

While the Athamanians and iEtolians, delivered from

fear of the Macedonians, converted to their own profit

the fruits of another's victory, and Thessaly, ravaged

by three armies at once, knew not which to believe its

foe or its friend, the consul marched on, through the

pass which the enemy's flight had left open, into the

country of Epirus. Though he well knew which

party the Epirots, excepting their prince Charopus,

were disposed to favor, yet as he saw that even from

the motive of atoning for past behavior, they obeyed

his orders with diligence, he regulated his treatment

of them by the standard of their present rather than of

their former temper, and by this readiness to pardon,

conciliated their affection for the future. Then, send­

ing orders to Corcyra, for the transport ships to come

into the Ambrician bay, he advanced by moderate

marches, and on the fourth day pitched his camp on

Mount Cercetius. Hither he ordered Amynander to

come with his auxiliary troops; not so much because

he wanted such addition of his forces, as with design

