LIVY.

gance unbecoming a Grecian state, as by their wishes

to prevent Philip from interfering in any of the affairs

of Greece; an interference which would be highly

dangerous to the general liberty. The deliberations

concerning a pacification were adjourned to the meet­

ing of the council of the Achaeans, and a certain time

and. place were fixed for that assembly. In the mean

time a truce for thirty days was obtained. The king,

proceeding thence through Thessaly and Boeotia, came

to Chalcis in Euboea, with design to exclude Attalus

from the harbors and coasts, for intelligence had been

received that he intended to come to Euboea with a

fleet. .Afterwards, leaving there a body of troops to

oppose Attalus, in case he should happen to arrive in

the mean time, and setting out himself with a few

horsemen and light infantry, he came to Argos. Here

the superintendence of the games of Haerean Juno and

Nemasan Hercules being conferred on him by the suf­

frages of the people, because the kings of the Macedo­

nians affect to derive the origin of their family from

that city, he performed those in honor of Juno; and,

as soon as they were finished, went off instantly to

jEgium, to the council summoned some time before.

In this assembly several schemes were proposed for

putting an end to the iEtolian war, that neither the

Romans nor Attalus might have any pretence for en­

tering Greece. But every measure of the kind was

defeated at once by the jEtolians, when the time of

the truce had scarcely expired, on their hearing that

Attalus was arrived at iEgina, and that the Roman

fleet lay at Naupactus: for being called into the coun­

cil of the Achasans, where were likewise present the

same ambassadors who had treated of a pacification at

Phalara, they at first complained of some trifling acts

committed during the truce, contrary to the faith of

the convention, at last declaring that the war could

not be terminated on any other terms than by the

Achaeans giving back Pylus to the Messenians, Atin-

tania to the Romans, and Ardyasa to Scerdilaedus and

Pleuratus. Philip, conceiving the utmost indignation

