HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXVII. 23

on both sides were engaged; but night coming on, they

separated, without any advantage being gained on either

side. They then hastily, before it grew dark, fortified

their camps, at a very little distance from each other.

Next day, as soon as light appeared, Marcellus led out

his forces to the field; nor did Hannibal decline the

contest, but in a long speech exhorted his men to

'remember Thrasymenus and Cannae, and to crush the

presumption of the foe, who pressed so closely on

their steps; not suffering them either to march or en­

camp in quiet, or even to breathe, or look about them. -

Every day the rising sun and the Roman army ap­

peared together on the plains. But if the enemy should

once be compelled to quit the field, especially with

some loss of blood, they would afterwards conduc.t

their operations with less turbulence and violence.'

Irritated by such expressions, and at the same time

vexed at being continually harassed, on quitting their

camp they began the fight with great fury. The battle

was maintained for more than two hours; then, on the

Roman side, the right wing and the chosen band, called

extraordinaries, began to give ground; on observing

which Marcellus brought up the eighteenth legion to

the front. But, while the others were retiring in con­

fusion, and these advancing with but little alacrity

into their place, the whole line was disordered, and in

a little time totally broken: at last, fear getting the

better of their shame, they fairly turned their backs.

In this battle, and the flight which followed, there fell

no less than two thousand seven hundred of the Ro­

mans and allies; among these four Roman centu­

rions, and two military tribunes, Marcus Licinius and

Marcus Fulvius. Four military standards were lost

by the wing which first fled, and two by the legions

which advanced in the place of the flying allies.

13. After the army had retired into the camp, Mar­

cellus reprimanded them in terms so harsh and bitter,

that they felt more from the discourse of their incensed

commander, than from all they had suffered in the un­

successful fight through the whole day. He said to

