HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXXII. 389

provinces of the consuls and pretors. Those of the

pretors were the first settled, because that could be

done by the lots. The city jurisdiction fell to Ser-

gius; the foreign to Minucius; Atilius obtained Sar­

dinia; Manlius, Sicily; Sempronius, the Hither Spain,

and Helvius, the Farther. When the consuls were

preparing to cast lots for Italy and Macedonia, Lucius

Oppius and Quintus Fulvius, plebeian tribunes, ob­

jected to their proceeding, alleging that 'Macedonia

was a very distant province, and that the principal

cause which had hitherto retarded the progress of the

war was that, when it was scarcely entered on, and

just at the commencement of operations, the former

consul was always recalled. This was the fourth year

since the declaration of war against Macedonia. The

greater part of one year Sulpicius spent in seeking the

king and his army; Villius, on the point of engaging

the enemy, was recalled. Quintius was detained at

Rome, for the greater part of his year, by business

respecting religion; nevertheless, he had so conducted

affairs, that had he come earlier into the province, or

had the cold season been at a greater distance, he

might have put an end to hostilities. He was then just

going into winter quarters; but, by all accounts, he

had brought the war into such a state, that if he were

not prevented by a successor, there was a reasonable

prospect of being able to put an end to it in the course

of the ensuing summer.' By such arguments the tri­

bunes so far prevailed, that the consuls declared that

they would abide by the directions of the senate, if the

cavillers would agree to do the same. Both parties

having, accordingly, referred the determination in-

tirely to those magistrates, a decree was passed, ap­

pointing the two consuls to the government of the pro­

vince of Italy. Titus Quintius was continued in com­

mand, until a successor should be found. To each

two legions were decreed; and they were ordered

with these to carry on the war with the Cisalpine

Gauls, who had revolted from the Romans. A rein­

forcement of five thousand foot and three hundred horse

