378 LIVY.

medon appeared utterly inconsistent. He made light

of the war with the Romans; and asserted, that the

issue of it would be similar to that of the former which

they waged against Philip. If such be the case, why

does he, at a distance, solicit our assistance, rather

than come hither in person, and defend us, his old al­

lies, both from Nabis and from the Romans? Us, do

I say? Why, then, has he suffered Eretria and Ca-

rystus to be taken? Why so many cities of Thessaly?

Why Locris and Phocis? Why does he at present

suffer Elatia to be besieged? Did he, either through

compulsion, or fear, or choice, quit the straits of Epi-

rus, and those impregnable fastnesses on the river

Aous: and why, abandoning the possession of the pass,

did he retire into his own kingdom? If, of his own

will, he gave up so many allies to the ravages of the

enemy, what objection can he make to these allies,

after his example, taking care of themselves? If

through fear, he ought to pardon the like fear in us:

if his retreat was in consequence of a defeat, let me

ask you, Cleomedon, shall we, Achasans, be able to

withstand the Roman arms, which you, Macedonians,

have not withstood? Are we to give credit to your

assertion, that the Romans do not employ, in the pre­

sent war, greater forces or greater strength than they

did in the former, or are we to regard the real facts?

In the first instance, they aided the iEtolians with a

fleet; they sent not to the war either a consul as com­

mander, or a consular army. The maritime cities of

Philip's allies were in terror and confusion; but the

inland places so secure against the Roman arms, that

Philip ravaged the country of the JEtolians, while they

in vain implored succor from those arms. Whereas,

in the present case, the Romans, after bringing to a

final conclusion the Punic war, which, raging for six­

teen years in the bowels, as it were, of Italy, had given

them abundance of trouble, sent not auxiliaries to the

jEtolians in their quarrels, but, being themselves prin­

cipals, made a hostile invasion on Macedonia with land

and sea forces at once. Their third consul is now,

