146 LIVY.

reans universally excel all others. Such a quantity,

therefore, of stones was poured, like the thickest hail

on the fleet as it approached the land that, not daring

to enter the harbor, the Carthaginians tacked about

to the main. They then passed over to the smaller of

the Baleares, which is equally fertile in soil, though,

as already noted, of lesser strength. Here they landed,

and pitched their camp in a strong post, over the har­

bor, taking possession of the city and country without

a contest. Then, having enlisted two thousand auxili­

aries, and sent them to Carthage for the winter, they

hauled their ships on shore. After Mago had departed

from the coast, the people of Gades surrendered to the

Romans.

38. Such were the transactions in Spain under the

conduct and command of Publius Scipio; who, having

committed the charge of the province to Lucius Lentu-

lus and Lucius Manlius Audinus, returned to Rome

with ten ships; and having obtained an audience of

the senate in the temple of Bellona, without the city,

made a recital of his services in Spain, how often he

had engaged the enemy in pitched battles, how many

towns he had taken, and what nations he had reduced

under the dominion of the Roman people; that 'he

had gone into Spain against four generals, and four

armies, who were elated with victory; and that he had

not left a Carthaginian in all that country.' On ac­

count of these exploits, he rather made trial how far

he might hope for a triumph than pushed for it with

any earnestness; because it was well known that no

one had ever been honored with it for achievements

performed, unless invested with a public office. When

the senate was dismissed he proceeded into the city,

and carried before him to the treasury fourteen thou­

sand three hundred and forty-two pounds weight of

silver, and of coined silver a great sum. Lucius Ve-

turius Philo then held the assembly for electing con­

suls; and all the centuries, with extraordinary marks

of attachment, named Publius Scipio consul. The col­

league joined with him was Publius Licinius Crassus,

