HISTORY OF ROME 103 .—BOOK XXVIII.

under Quintus Claudius, propretor; they consisted each

of two legions. It was decreed that Marcus Livius,

proconsul, whose command had heen prolonged for a

year, should receive two legions of volunteer slaves

from Caius Terentius, propretor in Etruria; and that

Quintus Mamilius should transfer his judicial employ­

ment to his colleague, and take the command in Gaul

with the army which had belonged to Lucius Porcius,

propretor; orders at the same time being given him to

lay waste the lands of the Gauls, who had revolted on

the approach of Hasdrubal. The protection of Sicily

was given in charge to Caius Servilius, with the two

legions of Cannae, as Caius Mamilius had held it.

From Sardinia, the old army which had served under

Aulus Hostilius, was brought home; and the consuls

levied a new legion, which Tiberius Claudius was to

carry with him. Quintus Claudius and Caius Hos­

tilius Tubulus were continued in command for a year,

that the former might hold Tarentum as his province,

the latter Capua. Marcus Valerius, proconsul, who

had been intrusted with the defence of the sea-coasts

round Sicily, was ordered to deliver thirty ships to

Caius Servilius, and to return home with all the rest

of the fleet.

11. While the public was under much anxiety, on

account of the great danger and importance of the war,

and ever apt to refer to the gods the causes of all their

successes and disappointments, accounts were propa­

gated of a number of prodigies: that at Tarracina, the

temple of Jupiter; at Satricum, that of Mother Ma-

tuta, had been struck by lightning; the people being

also greatly terrified by two snakes creeping into the

former unperceived through the very door. From An-

tium it was reported that ears of corn had appeared

bloody to the reapers. At Caere a pig had been littered

with two heads, and a lamb yeaned which was of both

sexes. It was said also, that two suns had been seen

at Alba, and that light had burst forth on a sudden

during the night-time at Fregellae. An ox, it was-as­

serted, had spoken in the neighborhood of Rome; and

a profuse sweat had flowed from the altar of Neptune,

