HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXIX. 217

a decided victory to Syphax; nor was there even room

for the enemy to escape, inclosed as they were on both

sides: the rest, therefore, horse and foot, were either

slain or taken. Masinissa collected round himself, in

close order, about two hundred horsemen, whom he

divided into three squadrons, with orders to break

through the enemy, having appointed a place where

they should reassemble, after being separated in their

flight. He himself made his way through the midst

of their weapons, as he had proposed; the other two

squadrons failed in the attempt; one surrendering

through fear, the other, after a more obstinate resist­

ance, being overwhelmed with darts, and cut to pieces.

Vermina followed close on the steps of Masinissa, who

baffled him by frequently turning out of one road into

another; and whom he at length obliged, harassed with

extreme fatigue, to desist from the pursuit, and ar­

rived himself with sixty horsemen at the lesser Syrtis.

There, with the honorable consciousness of having

often attempted the recovery of his father's kingdom,

lie rested until the coming of Caius Laelius and the

Roman fleet to Africa, between the Carthaginian Em­

poria and the nation of the Garamantians. From these

circumstances, I am inclined to believe that Masinissa

came afterwards to Scipio, rather with a small body

of forces than a large one: for the very great number,

which has been mentioned by some, suits the condition

of a king on a throne; the smaller that of an exile.

34. The Carthaginians having lost a large party of

horse, together with their commander, made up ano­

ther body of cavalry by a new levy, and gave the com­

mand of it to Hanno, son of Hamilcar. They sent

frequently for Hasdrubal and Syphax by letters and

messengers, and at length by ambassadors. Hasdru­

bal was ordered to come to the aid of his native city,

which was threatened with a siege; while Syphax was

intreated to bring relief to Carthage, and to atl Africa.

Scipio was at that time near Utica, above five miles

from the city; having removed from the sea-coast,

where for a few days he had a camp adjoining the

