HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXVII. 5

tion. One hundred and seventy Campanians, at the

head of whom were two brothers of the name of Blo-

sius, had conspired to set fire to all these at one hour

of the night. But the design was discovered by some

slaves belonging to the Blosii; whereon, the gates be­

ing instantly shut by order of the proconsul, and the

soldiers having, on the signal being given, assembled

under arms, all who were concerned in the conspiracy

were seized, and after undergoing a severe examina­

tion by torture, condemned and put to death. The

informers were rewarded with their freedom, and ten

thousand asses' each. The Nucerians and Acerrans,

having complained that they had no place of habita­

tion, as Acerra was partly burned, and Nuceria demo­

lished, Fulvius sent them to Rome to the senate.

Permission was granted to the Acerrans to rebuild

what had been thus destroyed; and the Nucerians,

agreeably to their own choice, were transplanted to

Atella, the inhabitants of the latter being ordered to

remove to Calatia. Among the multiplicity of im­

portant affairs, (some prosperous, others adverse,)

which occupied the thoughts of the public, even the

citadel of Tarentum was not forgotten: Marcus Ogul-

uius and Publius Aquilius being commissioned for the

purpose, went into Etruria to purchase corn, which

was to be conveyed to Tarentum; and, together with

the corn, were sent thither, as a reinforcement to the

garrison, one thousand men out of the city troops,

consisting of equal numbers of Romans and allies.

4. The summer was now nearly elapsed, and the

time of the consular election drew nigh: but a letter

received from Marcellus, affirming that it would be in­

jurious to the public interest, if he were to depart a

step from Hannibal, who was retreating before him,

while he, by a close pursuit, distressed him materially,

threw the senate into some perplexity, as they were

unwilling either to call home the consul, at a time

when he was most actively employed against the ene-

'321.5s. iOd.

