258 livy.

the coasts. First, the transports from ^Egimurus, aban­

doned by the mariners, who effected their escape, were

towed to Carthage; afterwards those from the baths.

35. The ambassadors had not yet returned from

Rome, nor was it known what were the sentiments of

the Roman senate concerning war or peace; neither

was the term of the truce expired. Scipio, on this

account, more highly resented the injury offered by

those who had petitioned for peace and the truce;

and, considering it as breaking off the negotiations,

and an infraction of the truce, he instantly sent Mar­

cus Baebius, Lucius Sergius, and Lucius Fabius, am­

bassadors to Carthage. These, having narrowly escaped

suffering violence from the populace, and still appre­

hending themselves exposed to danger, applied to the

magistrates, who had protected them from ill treat­

ment, for a guard of ships on their return. Two tri­

remes were assigned them; which, as soon as they

came to the river Bagrada, from whence there was a

view of the Roman camp, returned to Carthage. There

was a Carthaginian fleet stationed at Utica, from which

two quadriremes were sent, either in consequence of

private orders from Carthage, or Hasdrubal, who com­

manded that fleet, (for the infraction was unauthorised

by the public,) and which suddenly attacked the Ro­

man quinquereme as it came round the promontory.

The Carthaginian vessels attempted to strike the Ro­

man with their prows, but which they could not effect

by reason of its activity, nor could the fighting men

leap from those lower ships into the higher ones. The

quinquereme was gallantly defended, as long as wea­

pons lasted. These, however, spent, there was nothing

that could save them but the land being near, and the

multitude which poured out from the camp to the

coast. They therefore pressed forward, using their

utmost efforts with their oars; and running on shore,

the men escaped, but the ship was intirely lost. After

the truce had been thus broken, by outrage after out­

rage, Laelius and Fulvius arrived from Rome, with the

Carthaginian ambassadors. To these Scipio declared,

