HISTORY OF ROME. 101 .—BOOK XXVIII.

four horses, attended by the troops; Caius Claudius

Nero, on horseback, without troops.' As the uniting

of their triumphs in this manner enhanced the glory of

both the consuls, so it reflected peculiar honor on him

who condescended to appear in the procession, as

much inferior to his colleague in magnificence, as he

was superior to him in merit. People said, that ' the

commander on horseback had, in the space of six days,

traversed the extent of Italy, and had fought a pitched

battle with Hasdrubal in Gaul, on the very day when

Hannibal imagined he was lying in his camp opposite

to him in Apulia; that thus this single consul (equal

to the defence of both extremities of Italy against two

armies and two generals) had opposed against one, bis

skill; against the other, his person. That the very

name of Nero had been sufficient to confine Hannibal

to his camp; and as to Hasdrubal, by what other

means than by the arrival of Nero had he been over­

whelmed and cut off? The other consul, therefore,

might proceed in his stately chariot: he was drawn,

indeed, by a number of horses, but the real triumph

belonged to him who had only one; and that Nero,

though he should go on foot, deserved to be for ever

celebrated, both for having acquired so much glory in

the war, and shown so much indifference to the pomp­

ous display of it in the present procession.' With

such encomiums did the spectators attend Nero

through his whole progress to the capitol. The con­

suls carried to the treasury three hundred thousand

sesterces' in money, and eighty thousand asses2 of

brass; to the soldiers, Marcus Livius distributed fifty-

six asses3 each. Caius Claudius promised the same

sum to his absent troops, as soon as he should return

to the army. It was remarked that the soldiers, on

that day, directed more of their military songs and

verses to Caius Claudius than to their own com­

mander; that the horsemen distinguished Lucius Ve-

turius and Quintus Coecilius, lieutenants-general, by

extraordinary praises, exhorting the commons to ap-

« 24,218/.15s. 3 2561.6s. Sd. 3 3s. 7\d.

