14 LIVY.

.lEmilius, revived an old dispute ; for the patricians in足

sisted that Caius Mamilius Vitulus, the only plebeian

candidate, ought not to be allowed to stand, because

none but a patrician had ever held that office of the

priesthood. The tribunes being appealed to, referred

the business to the senate. The senate voted that the

people might act therein as they should think proper.

Thus Caius Mamilius Vitulus was elected chief curio,

being the first plebeian admitted into that office. Pub-

lius Licinius, chief pontiff, compelled Caius Valerius

Flaccus, against his will, to be inaugurated flamen of

Jupiter. Caius Lsetorius was created decemvir for the

performance of religious rites, in the room of Quintus

Mucius Scaevola, deceased. I should willingly pass

over in silence the reason of the flamen being forced

into the office, laboring as he then did under a bad

character, had he not afterwards acquired a very good

one. Caius Flaccus had spent his youth in idleness

and debauchery, and his vicious courses had drawn on

him the displeasure of his own brother Lucius Flaccus,

and of his other relations; and Publius Licinius was

in hope of reclaiming him. Indeed, when his thoughts

became engaged in the care of the sacrifices and re足

ligious performances, he quickly made such a complete

alteration in his conduct, from what it had hitherto

been, that, among all the young men of the time, no

one was held in higher esteem, or more intirely ap足

proved by the principal patricians, by his own family,

and by all. This universal good character inspiring

bim with a proper sense of his own worth, he asserted

a privilege which had for many years been laid aside,

on account of the unworthiness of former flamens, that

of having a seat in the senate. On his coming into the

senate-house, the pretor, Lucius Licinius, led bim out;

on which he appealed to the tribunes of the commons,

alleging that he only claimed an ancient privilege of

his priesthood, which was conferred on the office of

flamen, together with the purple-bordered robe and the

curule chair. The pretor argued that such a right de足

pended not on the copies of annals, rendered obsolete

