284 LIVY.

city, so that the state should have in its service, for

that year, fourteen legions, and one hundred and ten

ships of war.

42. The next business attended to was that of the

envoys of Philip and the Carthaginians. It was

thought proper that the Macedonians should be first

introduced. Their discourse comprehended a variety

of subjects: they first endeavored to clear themselves

of those matters, of which the ambassadors sent from

Rome to the king had complained, relative to the de­

predations committed on the allies. Then, on their

part, they remonstrated on the conduct of the allies

of the Romans, and particularly on that of Marcus

Aurelius, who, they said, being one of the three am­

bassadors sent to them, had stayed behind the rest,

levied soldiers, committed hostilities against them, and

fought several pitched battles with their commanders.

They afterwards demanded that the Macedonians, and

their captain, Sopater, who had served for pay under

Hannibal, and having been made prisoners were still

detained, might be restored to them. In opposition to

this, Marcus Furius, who had been sent from Macedo­

nia to Aurelius for the purpose, asserted, that ' Aure­

lius had been directed to take care, lest the allies,

wearied out by insults and depredations, should go

over to the king: that he had not gone beyond the

boundaries of the confederated states, but had endea­

vored to prevent devastations being committed with

impunity within their territories : that Sopater was one

of the king's particular favorites, one of those distin­

guished with the purple: and that he had been lately

sent with four thousand men and a sum of money into

Africa to the assistance of Hannibal and the Carthagi­

nians.' The Macedonians being interrogated on these

points, and not giving any clear answers, the senate,

without farther discussion, told them that 'the king

was seeking war; and, if he persisted, would quickly

find it. That the treaty had been doubly violated by

him: first, in offering injury to the allies of the Ro­

man people, assaulting them in open hostilities; se-

