366 LIVY.

mor. The king at first fled with precipitation, and

without looking behind him; but afterwards, when he

had proceeded as far as five miles, he began, from re­

collecting the unevenness of the road, to suspect (what

was really the case) that the enemy could not fol­

low him; and halting, he despatched his attendants

through all the hills and valleys to collect the strag­

glers together. His loss was not more than two thou­

sand men. The rest of his army coming to one spot,

as if they had followed some signal, marched off in a

compact body towards Thessaly. The Romans, after

having pursued the enemy as far as they could with

safety, killing such as they overtook, and despoiling

the slain, seized and plundered the king's camp; to

which, even when there were no troops to oppose

them, they could not easily make their way. The

following night they were lodged within their own

trenches.

13. Next day the consul pursued the enemy through

the same defiles, following the course of the river as it

winds through the valleys. The king came first to the

camp of Pyrrhus, a place so called in Triphylia, a dis­

trict of Melotis; and on the following day, by a very

long march, his fears urging him on, he reached

Mount Lingos. This ridge of mountains belongs to

Epirus, and stretches along between Macedonia and

Thessaly; the side next to Thessaly faces the east,

that next to Macedonia the north. These hills are

thickly clad with woods, and on their summits have

open plains and springs of water. Here Philip re­

mained encamped for several days, being unable to de­

termine whether he should continue his retreat until

he arrived in his own dominions, or whether he might

venture back into Thessaly. At length, he resolved to

direct his route into Thessaly; and, going by the

shortest roads to Tricca, he made hasty excursions

from thence to all the cities within his reach. The in­

habitants who were able to accompany him he carried

away, from their habitations, and burned the towns,

allowing the owners to take with them such of their

