112 LIVY.

persuaded by their guides that there was another and

a shorter road to the river Bastis, and where, it was

said, they might attack them in their passage. Has-

drubal finding the ford in possession of the enemy,

changed his course, directing it towards the ocean ; his

army now retreating with precipitancy, so that the Ro­

man legions were left at some distance behind. How­

ever, the horse and the light infantry harassed and de­

layed them, by attacking sometimes their rear, some­

times their flanks; and as they were obliged to halt

frequently, on occasion of these interruptions, and to

support the attacks, at one time of the horse, at another

of the infantry and auxiliary foot, they were overtaken

by the legions. The consequence was, not a fight, but

a carnage as of cattle; until at length the general him­

self, setting the example of a flight, made his escape

to the adjacent hills with about six thousand men half

armed: the rest were either slain or taken prisoners.

The Carthaginians hastily fortified an irregular camp

on the highest part of the ground, and defended them­

selves there without difficulty, the enemy in vain at­

tempting to climb so difficult an ascent. But a block­

ade, in a place naked and destitute, was hardly to be

supported, even for a few days: desertions to the Ro­

man, therefore, were frequent. Hasdrubal having at

length procured some ships, and the sea being not far

distant, left his army in the night, and fled to Gades.

When Scipio was informed of the flight of the general,

leaving ten thousand foot and one thousand horse with

Silanus for the blockade of the camp, he returned him­

self with the rest of the forces to Tarraco, where he

arrived after a march of seventy days; during which

he was employed in examining into the conduct of the

petty princes and states, in order that their rewards

might be proportioned according to a just estimate of

their merits. After his departure, Masinissa having

held a private conference with Silanus, passed over

with a few of his countrymen into Africa, in order to

bring his own nation to participate in the design which

be had newly formed. The cause of his sudden change

