392 livy.

should any occasion offer, would even assist the Ro­

mans. The Insubrians knew not that such an agree­

ment had been concluded, but they harbored in their

minds some kind of suspicion that the fidelity of their

confederates was wavering. Wherefore, in forming

their troops for battle, not daring to intrust either

wing to them, lest, if they should treacherously give

ground, they might cause a total defeat, they placed

them in reserve behind the line. At the beginning of

the fight the consul vowed a temple to Juno Sospita,

provided the enemy should on that day be routed,

and driven from the field; on which the soldiers

raised a shout, declaring, that they would insure to

their commander the completion of his vow, and at

the same time attacked the enemy. The Insubrians

did not stand even the first onset. Some writers affirm

that the Casnomanians, falling on their rear, during the

heat of the engagement, caused as much disorder

there as prevailed in their front; and that, thus

assailed on both sides, thirty-five thousand of them

ivere slain, five thousand seven hundred taken pri­

soners, among whom was Hamilcar, a Carthaginian

general, the original cause of the war; and that a hun­

dred and thirty military standards, and above two hun­

dred waggons were taken. On this, the towns, which

had joined in the revolt, surrendered to the Romans.

31. The other consul, Minucius, had at first spread

his troops through the territories of the Boians, com­

mitting violent depredations every where; but after­

wards, when that people left the Insubrians, and came

home to defend their own property, he kept his men

within their camp, expecting to come to an engage­

ment with the enemy. Nor would the Boians have

declined a battle if their spirits had not been de­

pressed, by hearing of the defeat of the Insubrians.

This so deeply affected them, that, deserting their

commander and their camp, they dispersed themselves

through the several towns, each wishing to take care

of his own effects. Thus they obliged the enemy to

alter their mode of carrying on the war: for, no lonJ

