HISTORY OF RQME.—BOOK XXVII. 17

deny to the Romans that which particular circum­

stances alone would shortly render it impossible to

grant. If that people saw the allies cordially uniting

in such a measure, they certainly would think of making

peace with the Carthaginians: otherwise, as long as

Hannibal lived, Italy would never be free from war.'

Thus did they argue in their assemblies. The Roman

colonies were at this time thirty in number; a.%, of whom

had ambassadors at Rome; and twelve of \ pre­

sented a remonstrance to the consuls, stating > it they

had not the means of furnishing the suppl' 'S _f men

and money. These were Ardea, Nepete, Sutrium,

Alba, Carseoli, Cora, Suessa, Circeii, Setia, Cales,

Narnia, and Iuteramna. The consuls, surprised at such

an extraordinary declaration, and wishing to deter them

from the meditated secession, to which end they sup­

posed that censure and reproof would be more effectual

than gentle measures, answered, that ' the expressions

which they had dared to use were such as the consuls

could not prevail on themselves to repeat in the senate:

for they contained not a refusal of military duty, but

an open defection from the Roman people. They ad­

vised them., therefore, to return home instantly to con­

sult with their respective countrymen, as if no step

had yet been taken; since their infamous design,

though disclosed in words, had not proceeded to ac­

tion; and to remind them that they were not natives

of Campania, or of Tarentum, but of Rome. That

from thence they derived their origin, and from thence

were sent out into colonies, into lands taken from ene­

mies, for the purpose of increasing population; and

that, consequently, whatever duties children owe to

parents, these they owed to the Romans, if they had

any remains of natural affection, or any regard for

their mother country. They desired them, therefore,

to confer on the matter anew; for that, as to the mea­

sures which they had inconsiderately mentioned, their

tendency was to betray the Roman empire, and to give

up the conquest of it to Hannibal.' Though the con­

suls, one after the other, reasoned with them in this

liv. vot. v. B

