370 Liw.

the enemy, he sent up reinforcements as occasion re*

quired.

16. About the time that Quintius first pitched his

camp opposite to Philip's, and at the entrance of Epi-

rus, Lucius, the consul's brother, whom the senate had

commissioned both to the naval command and to the

government of the coast, sailed over with two quinque-

remes to Corcyra; and when he learned that the fleet

had departed thence, thinking any delay improper, he

followed, and overtook it at the island of Zama. Here

he dismissed Luci us Apustius, in whose room he had been

appointed, and then proceeded to Ma lea, but at a slow

rate, being obliged, for the most part, to tow the vessels

which accompanied him with provisions. From Malea,

after ordering the rest to follow with all possible expe足

dition, himself, with three light quinqueremes, hastened

forward to the Piraeus, and took under his command the

ships left there by Lucius Apustius, lieutenant-general,

for the protection of Athens. At the same time two fleets

set sail from Asia; one of twenty-four quinqueremes,

under king Attalus; the other belonging to the Rhodians,

consisting of twenty decked ships, and commanded by

Agesimbrotus. These fleets, joining near the island of

Andros, sailed for Euboea, to reach which place they

had only to cross a narrow channel. They first ravaged

the lands belonging to Carystus ; but, judging that city

too strong, in consequence of a reinforcement hastily

sent from Chalcis, they bent their course to Eretria.

Lucius Quintius also, on hearing of the arrival of king

Attalus, came thither with the ships which had lain at

the Pirasus, having left orders that his own ships

should as they arrived foll6w him to Euboea. The

siege of Eretria was now pushed forward with the ut足

most vigor; for the three combined fleets carried ma足

chines and engines of all sorts, for the demolition of

towns, and the adjacent country offered abundance of

timber for the construction of new works. At the be足

ginning the townsmen defended themselves with a

good degree of spirit; afterwards, when they felt the

effects of fatigue, a great many being likewise wounded,

