304 LIVY.

not be distinguished; and another was found sixteen

years old, whose sex also was doubtful. At Frusino a

lamb was born with a swine's head; at Sinuessa, a pig

with a human head; and in Lucania, in the land be­

longing to the state, a foal with five feet. All these

were considered as horrid and abominable, and as if

Nature were straying from her course in confounding

the different species. Above all, the people were par­

ticularly shocked at the hermaphrodites, which were

ordered to be immediately thrown into the sea, as had

been lately done with a production of the same mon­

strous kind, in the consulate of Caius Claudius and

Marcus Livius. Not satisfied with this, they ordered

the decemvirs to inspect the books in regard of that

prodigy; and the decemvirs, from the books, directed

the same religious ceremonies which had been per­

formed on an occasion of the same kind. They or­

dered, besides, a hymn to be sung through the city by

thrice nine virgins, and an offering to be made to im­

perial Juno. The consul, Caius Aurelius, took care

that all these matters were performed according to the

direction of the decemvirs. The hymn was composed

by Publius Licinius Tegula, as a similar one had been,

in the memory of their fathers, by Livius.

13. All religious scruples were fully removed by

expiations: at Locri, too, the affair of the sacrilege

had been thoroughly investigated by Quintus Minu-

cius, and the money replaced in the treasury out of the

effects of the guilty. When the consuls wished to set

out to their provinces, a number of private persons, to

whom the third payment became due that year, of the

money which they had lent to the public in the consu­

late of Marcus Valerius and Marcus Claudius, applied

to the senate. The consuls, however, having declared

that the treasury being scarcely sufficient for the exi­

gences of a new war, in which a great fleet and great

armies must be employed, there were no means of

paying them at present. The senate could not avoid

being affected by their complaints, in which they al­

leged, that 'if the state intended to use, for the pur­

