HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXXI. 305

pose of the Macedonian war, the money which had

been lent for the Punic war, as one war constantly

arose after another, what would be the issue, but that,

in return for their kind assistance to the public, their

property would be confiscated, as if they had been

guilty of some crime V The demands of the private

creditors being equitable, and the state being in no

capacity of discharging the debt, they determined to

pursue a middle course between equity and conveni­

ence; and accordingly they decreed, that 'whereas

many of them mentioned that lands were frequently

exposed to sale, and that they themselves wished to

become purchasers; they should therefore have liberty

to purchase any belonging to the public, and which lay

within fifty miles of the city. That the consuls should

make a valuation of these, and impose on each acre a

quit-rent of one as, as an acknowlegement that the

land was the property of the public, in order that when

the people should become able to pay, if any one chose

rather to have the money than the land, he might re­

store it.' The private creditors accepted the terms

with joy; and that land was called Trientius and Ta-

bulius, because it was given in lieu of the third part of

their money.

14. Publius Sulpicius, after making his vows in the

capitol, set out from the city in his robes of war, at­

tended by his lictors, and arrived at Brundusium;

where, having formed into legions the veteran soldiers

of the African army who were willing to follow him,

and chosen his number of ships out of the fleet of the

late consul, Cornelius, he set sail, and next day ar­

rived in Macedonia. There he was met by ambassa­

dors from the Athenians, intreating him to relieve

their city from the siege. Immediately Caius Clau­

dius Centho was despatched to Athens, with twenty

ships of war and a small body of land forces: for it

was not the king himself who carried on the siege of

Athens; he was at that time intently occupied in be­

sieging Abydus, after having tried his strength at sea

against Attalus, and against the Rhodians, without

liv. vol. v. v

