HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXX. 243

his misfortunes, from seeing that pestilent woman re­

moved into the house and family of his bitterest enemy.

Adding, that Masinissa possessed neither more pru­

dence nor firmness than himself. His youth, indeed,

had made him incautious; but there was evidently more

folly and rashness in the latter marriage than in his.'

14. These words, dictated not merely by animosity

towards his enemy, but by anguish on seeing the woman

whom he had loved in the possession of his rival, im­

pressed the mind of Scipio with no small degree of

solicitude. He was however the more induced to listen

to Syphax, from the marriage having been hurried for­

ward, in the midst of arms, without either consulting or

waiting for Laelius; and from Masinissa's haste, for on

the very day in which he had seen Sophonisba made pri­

soner, he had contracted matrimony with her, and per­

formed the nuptial sacrifice, in presence of the house­

hold gods of his enemy. These proceedings appeared

to Scipio the more heinous, because he himself, when

in Spain, and when a very young man, had not allowed

himself to be moved by the beauty of any captive what­

ever. • While he was revolving these circumstances in

his mind Laelius and Masinissa arrived, to both of

whom he gave the same kind reception ; and afterwards

made known their conduct, with the highest praises, in

a full assembly. Then retiring with Masinissa to a pri­

vate place, he thus addressed him: 'I suppose, Masi­

nissa, that in first coming to Spain for the purpose

of contracting a friendship with me, and afterwards in

Africa, submitting yourself, and all your concerns, to

my protection, you must have been influenced by some

good qualities which I was said to possess. Now, of

those virtues which made you think my favor worth

soliciting, there is not one on which I value myself so

much as temperance and the government of my pas­

sions. I wish, Masinissa, that to your other excellent

qualifications you had added this one also. There is

not so much danger, believe me there is not, to persons

of our time of life, from armed foes, as from the plea­

sures which every where surround us. He who has

