HISTORY OF ROME.^-BOOK XXVIII. 119

most drawing up by the hand those who followed, and

the hindmost lifting up those before them, they made

their way to the summit; and from thence, with loud

shouts, poured down into the city, which had been

already taken by the Romans. Then it plainly ap­

peared that resentment and hatred had been the mo­

tives of the assault: no one thought of taking pri­

soners, no one thought of booty, though the objects lay

before their eyes. The armed and unarmed were

slain without distinction, women and men promiscu­

ously; the cruel rage of the soldiers proceeded even to

slaying of infants. They then set fire to the houses,

and what could not be thus destroyed, they levelled to

the ground; so earnest were they to erase every trace

of the city, and to abolish every mark of the enemy's

residence. Scipio from thence led his army to Cas-

tulo, which was defended by a great concourse of Spa­

niards, and also by the remains of the Carthaginian

army, collected from the places whither they had dis­

persed in their flight. But the news of the calamities

of the Illiturgians had preceded the arrival of Scipio,

and thrown the garrison into fright and despair; and

as they were differently circumstanced, while each

party wished to provide for their own safety, without

regard to the rest, at first silent suspicion, afterward's

open discord, ensued, and caused a separation between

the Carthaginians and Spaniards. Cerdubellus openly

advised the latter to surrender. Himilco commanded

the Carthaginian garrison auxiliaries, who, together

with the city, were delivered up to the Romans by

Cerdubellus, after he had privately made terms for

himself. This victory was not followed with so much

severity; the guilt of this people not having been so

great as that of the former, and their voluntary sur­

render mitigating, in some degree, the resentment

against them.

21. Marcius proceeded from thence, in order to re­

duce to obedience such of the barbarians as had not

been completely subdued. Scipio returned to New

Carthage, in order to pay his vows to the gods, and to

