272 livy.

plains of Italy were pointed out as the reward of suc­

cess. The Moors and Numidians he terrified with the

prospect of cruel tyranny under Masinissa. Different

objects of hope and fear were proposed to each; but

to the Carthaginians, nothing but extremes, either on

the side of hope or of fear, was presented to view;

the walls of their native city, their household gods,

the sepulchres of their ancestors, their children, pa­

rents, and wives distracted with terror; in a word,

utter ruin and abject slavery, or the empire of the

world. While the general was thus employed among

the Carthaginians, and the commanders of the several

nations among their respective countrymen, (many of

them speaking by interpreters, being intermixed with

foreigners,) the trumpets and cornets sounded on the

side of the Romans; and such a shout was raised,

that the elephants, particularly in the left wing, turned

about against their own men, the Moors and Numi­

dians. Masinissa, charging them while in disorder,

easily drove them in, and stripped their line on that

flank of the cover of the cavalry. However, a few of

these beasts unaffrighted, being driven forward on the

Romans, made great slaughter among the light troops,

but not without receiving many wounds; for springing

back to the companies, and to avoid being trodden

under foot, opening a passage for the elephants, they

discharged their spears at them from both sides, being

intirely exposed as they passed through ; nor did the

javelins from the first line of troops cease until, being

driven away from the Roman line by the weapons

,showered on them, they put to flight even the Cartha­

ginian cavalry in their own right wing. Ltelius, see­

ing the enemy in this confusion, charged their dis­

ordered troops, and put them to flight.

34. The Carthaginian line was exposed on both

flanks, not having cavalry to cover them, when the

infantry began to engage; but no longer on an equa­

lity with the Roman, either in hope or in strength.

There was another circumstance, which, though trifling

in appearance, is yet of great consequence in action.

