40 LIVY.

the annulling of his commission was negatived, but, on

the day following, every one of the centuries, with the

greatest unanimity, concurred in electing him consul.

The colleague joined with him was Titus Quintius Cris-

pinus, then a pretor. Next day were elected pretors,

Publius Licinius Crassus Dives, then chief pontiff,

Publius Licinius Varus, Sextus Julius Cassar, Quintus

Claudius, flamen. During the very time of the elec­

tions the public were much disturbed with apprehen­

sions of a revolt in Etruria. That some scheme of that

kind had been set on foot by the Arretians was asserted

in a letter of Caius Calpurnius, who, in the character

of propretor, held the government of that province.

Wherefore Marcellus, consul elect, was immediately

despatched thither, with orders to inquire into the affair,

and, if he should see occasion, to send for his army,

and remove the war from Apulia to Etruria. The fear

of this gave the Etrurians such a check as kept them

quiet. Ambassadors from the Tarentines came to so­

licit a treaty of peace, requesting that they might be

allowed to live in freedom under their own laws;

but the senate desired them to come again, when the

consul Fabius would have returned to Rome. Both

the Roman and plebeian games were this year repeated

for one day. The curule ediles were Lucius Cornelius

Caudinus, and Servius Sulpicius Galba; the plebeian,

Caius Servilius and Quintus Caecilius Metellus. Many

people insisted that Servilius could not legally have

held the office of tribune, nor could now hold that of

edile, because it was well known that his father, who,

for ten years, was supposed to have been killed by the

Boians near Mutina, when triumvir for the distribu­

tion of lands, was still living, and in the hands of the

enemy.

22. In the eleventh year of the Punic war com­

menced the consulate of Marcus Marcellus, a fifth time,

(reckoning the consulship, which, because of an irregu­

larity in the election, he did not hold,) and Titus Quin­

tius Crispinus. It was decreed that both the consuls

should be employed in Italy, as their province; and

