80 LIVY.

the signal was sounded a second time. Though he

received account of all these particulars, yet the cir­

cumstance of the camp's not being enlarged led to a

false conclusion: they were two, as before the arrival

of the second consul; one belonging to Marcus Livius,

the other to Lucius Porcius; and no addition had been

made to the trenches of either, to make more room for

tents within. One thing particularly struck that vete­

ran commander, long accustomed to act against Roman

armies, which was, that according to the information

of his scouts, the signal was sounded once in the pre-

tor's camp, and twice in the consuls'. Hence he con­

cluded that the two consuls must be there; but how to

account for Nero's having left Hannibal behind per­

plexed him extremely. Of all things, he could the

least suspect what had really happened, that Hannibal

could be so blinded, and in a business of such magni­

tude, as not to know where the general was, and where

the army whose'camp stood facing his own. He sup­

posed that some disaster of no ordinary kind must

have hindered him from following; and he began to

fear greatly that he himself had come too late with

succor, that his affairs were too desperate to be re­

trieved, and that the same fortune which the Romans

had met in Spain awaited them now in Italy. He

even conjectured that his letter had not reached his

brother; and that, in consequence of its being inter­

cepted, the consul had hastened thither to overpower

him. Distracted by these doubts and fears, he extin­

guished all his fires; and, at the first watch, ordered

his troops to strike their tents in silence, and to march.

In the hurry and confusion of a movement by night

the guides were not watched with the necessary care

and attention; one of them, therefore, stopped in a

place of concealment, which he had before fixed on in

his mind, and the other swam across the river Me-

taurus, at a pass with which he was acquainted. The

troops, thus left destitute of conductors, strayed for

some time through the country; and many, overcome

by drowsiness and fatigue, stretched themselves on the

