154 LIVY.

The whole day would not be sufficient, were I to re­

count to you all the kings and generals who, by pass­

ing rashly into an enemy's country, have brought the

greatest calamities on themselves and their armies.

The Athenians, for instance, a state remarkable for

prudence, having, at the instigation of a youth who

was distinguished as much by his active spirit as by

his nobility, neglected a war at home, and sent over

a large fleet to Sicily (their commonwealth at that

time in a most florishing condition), suffered, in one

naval engagement, such a blow as could never be re­

trieved.

42. 'But, not to bring examples from distant coun­

tries, and times of such remote antiquity, Africa itself,

and Marcus Atilius (a remarkable instance of both ex­

tremes of fortune), may serve as a warning to us.

Be assured, Publius Cornelius, that, when yon shall

have a view of Africa from the sea, all your exploits

in Spain will appear to you to have been only matter

of sport and play. For in what circumstance can they

be compared? After sailing along the coasts of Italy

and Gaul, where there was nothing to oppose you, you

carried your fleet into the harbor of Emporiae, a city

belonging to our allies; and, having landed your

men, you led them through countries intirely free

from danger to Tarraco, to the friends and allies of the

Roman people. From Tarraco you passed amid Ro­

man garrisons. It was on the Iberus, indeed, that the

armies of your father and uncle were exasperated by

the loss of their generals, their new commander being

Lucius Marcius, irregularly appointed, it is true, and

chosen for the time by the suffrages of the soldiers;

but, except that he wanted a noble birth, and a regu­

lar course of promotion, equal to many celebrated

captains in every military accomplishment. The siege

of New Carthage you carried on quite at your leisure,

while neither of the three Carthaginian armies attempted

to relieve the place. As to the rest of your exploits,

I am far from wishing to lessen their merit, but they

are certainly by no means to be compared with a war in

