316 LIVY.

had shut up there were set at liberty. They next pulled

down and mutilated the statues of the king; and then,

on a signal being given for a retreat, reimbarked and

returned to Piraus, from whence they had set out. If

there had been a sufficient number of Roman soldiers

to have kept possession of Chalcis, without stripping

Athens of a proper garrison, that city and the com足

mand of the Euripus would have been a most important

advantage at the commencement of the war; for as the

pass of Thermopylae is the principal barrier of Greece

by land, so is the strait of the Euripus by sea.

24. Philip was then at Demetrias, and as soon as the

news arrived there of the calamity which had befallen

the city of his allies, although it was too late to carry

assistance to those who were already ruined, yet anxi足

ous to accomplish what was next to assistance, revenge,

he set out instantly with five thousand foot lightly

equipped, and three hundred horse. With a speed

almost equal to that of racing, he hastened to Chalcis,

not doubting but that he should be able to surprise the

Romans. Finding himself disappointed, and that his

coming answered no other end than to give him a

melancholy view of the smoking ruins of that friendly

city, (so few being left, that they were scarcely suffi足

cient to bury those who had fallen by the sword of the

enemy,) with the same rapid haste which he had used

in coming, he crossed the Euripus by the bridge, and

led his troops through Boeotia to Athens, in hopes that

a similar attempt might be attended by a similar issue:

and he would have succeeded, had not a scout (one of

those whom the Greeks call day-runners,i because they

run through a journey of great length in one day), des足

crying from his post of observation the king's army in

its march, set out at midnight, and arrived before them

at Athens. The same sleep, and the same negligence,

prevailed there which had proved the ruin of Chalcis a

few days before. Roused, however, by the alarming

intelligence, the pretor of the Athenians, and Dioxip-

Hemerodromoi.

