286 LIVY.

had enlarged their empire more hy their lenity to the

vanquished, than by their victories.' The discourse of

the others was more calculated to excite compassion:

they represented, ' to what a low state, from an exalted

height, the affairs of the Carthaginians had fallen.

That they who had lately extended the power of their

arms over almost the whole world, had now little left

them except the walls of Carthage. Shut up within

these, they could see nothing, either on land or sea,

that they could call their own. Even of the city itself,

and of their habitations, they had no other tenure,

than the Romans not choosing to wreak their ven­

geance on those also, when no other object for it now

remained.' When it appeared that the fathers were

moved by compassion, one of the senators, it is said,

incensed at the perfidy of the Carthaginians, called

out to them, and asked, ' What gods they would now

invoke as witnesses in the pending treaty, having

broken faith with those in whose name the former one

was concluded.'—' The same,' said Hasdrubal, 'who

now show such resentment against the violators of

treaties.'

43. The minds of all inclining to peace, Cneius Len-

tulus, consul, whose province was the fleet, protested

against the senate passing a decree. On which the tri­

bunes, Manius Acilius and Quintus Manucius, put the

question to the people, ' Whether they would choose

and order the senate to decree that peace should be

made with the Carthaginians; whom they would order

to grant peace, and whom to conduct the armies home

from Africa?' All the tribes unanimously passed the

question as it was put, and ordered Publius Scipio to

grant the peace, and also to conduct the armies home.

In consequence of this order of the people, the senate

decreed that Publius Scipio, in consort with the ten

ambassadors, should conclude a peace with the people

of Carthage, on such terms as he should judge proper.

The Carthaginians, then, after returning thanks to the

senate, requested that they might be permitted to enter

the city, and to converse with their countrymen, who,

