HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXXI. 323

that, 'as no change of circumstances had occurred,

they had nothing new to introduce; for the same rea­

sons which had induced the ./Etolians to make peace

with Philip, after experiencing the unprofitableness of

an alliance with the Romans, should engage them to

preserve it, now that. it was established. Do you

rather choose,' said one of the ambassadors, ' to imi­

tate the inconsistency, or levity, shall I call it, of the

Romans, who ordered this answer to be given to your

ambassadors at Rome: 'Why, jEtolians, do you ap­

ply to us, when, without our approbation, you have

made peace with Philip V Yet these same people

now require that you should, in conjunction witli

them, wage war against Philip. Formerly, too, it

was pretended that they took arms on your account,

and in your defence against Philip: now they do not

allow you to continue at peace with him. To assist

Messana, they first embarked for Sicily; and a second

time to vindicate the liberty of Syracuse, oppressed

by the Carthaginians. Both Messana, and Syracuse,

and all Sicily, they hold in their own possession, and

have reduced it into a tributary province under their

axes and rods. You imagine, perhaps, that in the

same manner as you hold an assembly at Naupactus,

according to your own laws, under magistrates of

your own appointment, at liberty to choose allies and

enemies, and to have peace or war at your own option,

so the assembly of the states of Sicily is summoned to

Syracuse, or Messana, or Lilybaeum. No; a Roman

pretor presides at the meeting; at his command they

assemble; they behold him, attended by bis lictors,

seated on a lofty throne, issuing his haughty edicts.

His rods are ready for their backs, his axes for their

necks, and every year they are allotted a different

master. Neither ought they, nor can they wonder at

this, when they see all the cities of Italy bending

under the same yoke,—Rhegium, Tarentum, Capua,

not to mention those in their own neighborhood, out of

the ruins of which their city of Rome grew into power.

Capua indeed subsists, the grave and monument of the

