HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXVIII. 159

any greater misfortune befallen us in Africa than had

at that time been experienced in Spain? Are there

now on that continent more numerous armies or better

generals than there were then in Spain? Was I fitter

at that time of life for conducting a war than I am

now? Is a contest with a Carthaginian enemy less

difficult in Spain than in Africa? It is an easy matter,

after four Carthaginian armies routed and intirely dis­

persed; after so many cities taken by force, or terri­

fied into a surrender, while all places, even as far as

the ocean, have been brought under intire subjection;

while so many princes, so many savage nations have

been wholly reduced; in a word, after all Spain has

been reconquered, and in such a manner as that no

trace of war remains ;—it is easy, I say, to depreciate

the value of my services ; just as easy, in truth, as it

will be, if I shall return victorious from Africa, to

make light of those very circumstances which are now

so greatly aggravated, and painted in such terrible

colors, for the purpose of detaining me here. It is

affirmed that no entrance can be found into Africa;

that there are no harbors open to us; that Marcus Ati-

lius was taken prisoner there, as if Marcus Atilins had

miscarried on approaching that coast. But Fabius

does not recollect that this commander (afterwards,

indeed, unfortunate) found the harbors of Africa open,

and during the first year performed extraordinary ser­

vices; and as far as concerned the Carthaginian gene­

rals, remained unconquered to the last. The example

which you produce, therefore, does not in the least

deter me. If that loss had even been sustained in the

present war, and not in the former; if lately, and

not forty years ago, yet why should I not as well

pass into Africa after Regulus was made prisoner, as

into Spain, after the Scipios were slain; nor suffer it

to be said that the birth of Xanthippus, a Lacedaemo­

nian, was, by the defeat of our consul, more fortunate

to Carthage, than mine to my own country? and why

might not I assume additional confidence from that

very circumstance, that it was possible for the bravery

