220 livy.

ships, heavily laden, a second time, with all kinds of

spoil. From that time laying aside small expeditions

and predatory excursions, he turned the whole force

of the war to the siege of Utica; intending, if he

should take it, to establish his head-quarters there for

the future, in order to the better execution of the rest

of his designs. While the marine forces made their

approaches on that side of the city which is washed by

the sea, those of the land advanced from a rising

ground hanging almost over the walls. Engines and

machines had been sent from Sicily with the stores;

and many were made in the armory, where a number of

artificers, skilled in such works, were retained for the

purpose. The people of Utica, attacked on all sides by

such a powerful force, had no hopes but from the Car­

thaginians; nor the Carthaginians any but from Has-

drubal, and from him only, as he should be able to in­

fluence Syphax. But all measures proceeded too slowly

for their anxious desire of aid, of which they stood so

much in need. Hasdrubal, though he had, by the most

diligent press, made up the number of thirty thousand

foot, and three thousand horse, yet durst not move to­

wards the camp of the enemy before the arrival of Sy­

phax. Syphax soon came with fifty thousand foot, and

ten thousand horse; and immediately decamping from

Carthage, sat down at a small distance from Utica, and

the intrenchments of the Romans. Their approach pro­

duced at least this consequence, that Scipio, after hav­

ing besieged Utica for near forty days, and tried every

expedient for its reduction, in vain, was obliged to

retire from it, as the winter was now at hand. He

fortified his winter camp on a promontory, joined to

the continent by a narrow isthmus, and which stretches

out to some length into the sea; and included the

naval camp within the same intrenchment. The le­

gions were stationed on the middle of the isthmus;

the ships were hauled on shore, and the seamen occu­

pied the coast which faces the north; the cavalry a

valley on the south. Such were the transactions in

Africa to the latter end of autumu.

