HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXXII. 867

effects as they were able to carry; the rest became the

prey of the soldiers; nor was there any kind of cruelty

which they could have suffered from an enemy that

they did not suffer from these their confederates. The

infliction of such hardships was irksome to Philip,

even while he authorised it; but as the country was

soon to become the property of the foe, he wished to

rescue out of it their persons at least. In this manner

were ravaged the towns of Phacium, Iresia, Euhy-

drium, Eretria, and Palasphatus. On his coming to

Pherae the gates were shut against him, and as it

would necessarily occasion a considerable delay, if he

attempted to take it by force, and as he could not

spare time, he dropped the design, and crossed over

the mountains into Macedonia; for he had received

intelligence that the JEtolians too were marching to­

wards him. These, on hearing of the battle fought on

the banks of the river Aous, first laid waste the near­

est tracts round Sperchia, and Long Come, as it is

called, and then, passing over into Thessaly, got pos­

session of Cymine and Angea at the first assault.

From Metropolis they were repulsed by the inha­

bitants, who, while a part of their army was plunder­

ing the country, assembled in a body to defend the

city. Afterwards, making an attempt on Callithere,

they were attacked by the townsmen in a like manner;

but withstood their onset with more steadiness, drove

back into the town the party which had sallied, and

content with that success, as they had scarcely any

prospect of taking the place by storm, retired. They

then took by assault and sacked the towns of Theuma

and Calathas. Achorrae they gained by surrender.

Xynias, through similar apprehensions, was abandoned

by the inhabitants. These having forsaken their

homes, and going together in a body, fell in with a

party of Athamanians employed in protecting their

foragers; all of whom, an irregular and unarmed mul­

titude, incapable of any resistance, were put to the

sword by the troops. The deserted town of Xyniae

was plundered. The jEtolians then took Cyphara, a

