234 LIVY.

Romans placed their first-rank men behind the front

battalions, consisting of the spearmen, and the veterans

in reserve; posting the Italian cavalry on the right

wing, the Numidians and Masinissa on the left. Sy-

phax and Hasdrubal, having placed their Numidians

opposite to the Italian cavalry, and the Carthaginians

opposite to Masinissa, drew the Celtiberians into the

centre of the line, facing the battalions of the legions:

in this order they began the engagement. On the first

encounter both wings, Numidians and Carthaginians,

were forced to give way: for neither could the Numi­

dians, most of whom were undisciplined peasants, with­

stand the Roman cavalry, nor the Carthaginians, who

were also raw soldiers, withstand Masinissa, who, be­

sides other circumstances, was rendered terrible by his

late victory. The line of Celtiberians, (although, hav­

ing lost the cover of the wings, they were exposed on

both flanks,) yet resolutely kept their ground ; for nei­

ther could they see any safety in flight, being unac­

quainted with the country, nor had they any hope of

pardon from Scipio, having come into Africa to fight

against him for the sake of hire, notwithstanding the

favors which he had conferred on them and their na­

tion. Surrounded therefore on all sides, they died

with determined obstinacy, falling in heaps one over

another; and, while the attention of all was turned on

them, Syphax and Hasdrubal availed themselves of

this opportunity, and gained a considerable space of

time to effect their escape. Night came on the con­

querors, who were fatigued more with killing than

from the length of the contest.

9. Next day Scipio sent Latins and Masinissa, with

all the Roman and Numidian cavalry, and the light

infantry, in pursuit of Syphax and Hasdrubal. He

himself, with the main body of the army, reduced all

the cities in that part of the country which belonged to

the Carthaginians, some by offering them hopes, others

by threats, others by force. At Carthage the conster­

nation was excessive: they expected nothing less than

that Scipio, who was extending his operations on every

