HISTORY OF ROME.— 221 BOOK XXIX.

36. Various stores were imported from Sicily and

Italy; and besides the corn collected from all quarters

of the adjacent country, Cneius Octavius, propretor,

brought a vast quantity out of Sardinia from Tiberius

Claudius, the pretor: in consequence of which, not

only the granaries already built were filled, but new ones

were erected. Clothing was wanted for the troops:

that matter was given in charge to Octavius, with di­

rections to apply to the pretor, and to try if any could

be procured by him; a business which he carefully

attended to, for in a short time twelve hundred gowns

and twelve thousand jackets were sent. During the

same summer in which these things passed in Africa,

Publius Sempronius, consul, who had the province of

Bruttium, on his march in the district of Croton,

engaged Hannibal in a tumultuary battle, or rather

a kind of skirmishing. The Romans were worsted;

and one thousand two hundred of the consul's army

slain. The rest returned in confusion to the camp,

which however the enemy did not dare to assault.

During the silence of the following night Sempronius

marched away; and, having sent directions to Pub­

lius Licinius, proconsul, to bring up his legions, he

made a junction of their forces: thus two commanders

and two armies returned on Hannibal. Neither party

declined an engagement; the consul deriving confi­

dence from his forces being doubled; the Carthagi­

nian, from his late victory. Sempronius led up his

own legions into the first line, those of Licinius were

placed in reserve. In the beginning of the battle the

consul vowed a temple to Fortuna Primigenia, if he

should defeat the enemy on that day; and the object

of his vow was accomplished. The Carthaginians

were routed and put to flight: above four thousand

fell, somewhat less than three hundred were made

prisoners, with whom were taken forty horses, and

eleven military standards. Hannibal, dismayed by

this overthrow, drew oft' his army to Croton. At the

same time Marcus Cornelius, consul, not so much by

force of his arms as by the terror of his judicial pro­

