HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXVIII. 139

as these should be engaged in skirmishing, he should

charge with the cavalry from a place of concealment.

A conveniently projecting mountain covered the am­

bush of the cavalry, and the battle began without de­

lay; for the Spaniards rushed on the cattle as soon

as they saw them at a distance, and the light infantry

attacked them, occupied with their booty. At first,

they endeavored to terrify each other with missive

weapons; afterwards, having discharged their light

darts, which were fitter to provoke than to decide the

fight, they drew their swords, and began to engage

foot to foot. The contest between the infantry was

doubtful; but the cavalry came up, who, charging

straight forward, not only trod down all before them,

but some also, wheeling round along the foot of the

steep, fell on the enemy's rear, inclosing the greater

part of them: so that the number slain was far more

considerable than is usual in such kind of engagements.

This discomfiture served rather to inflame the rage of

the barbarians than depress them. In order therefore

to show that they were not dispirited, at the first light

on the day following they led out their troops to battle.

The valley being narrow, as has been mentioned, could

not contain all their forces; so that only about two-

thirds of the infantry and all their cavalry came down

to the engagement. The remainder of the foot they

posted on a hill on one side. Scipio, judging that the

narrowness of the ground was a favorable circumstance

to him, both because fighting in a confined space seemed

better suited to the Roman than the Spanish soldier,

and also because the enemy could not completely form

their line, turned his thoughts to a new scheme. Find­

ing that he could not extend his cavalry on the wings,

and that those of the enemy, whom they had brought

out with the infantry, would be useless, he ordered

Laelius to lead the cavalry round the hills by the most

concealed roads, and to keep separate as much as pos­

sible the fight of the cavalry from that between the in­

fantry. He himself led forward the battalions of in­

fantry, placing four cohorts in front, for he could not

