HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXX. 27V

hind them the first-rank men, and closed the rear with

the veterans. He did not, as usual, form the cohorts

in close order each before their own colors, but placed

the companies at some distance from each other, that

there might be room to admit the elephants of the

enemy, without disturbing the ranks. Laelius, who

formerly served under him as lieutenant-general, but

that year as questor, by particular appointment, in

pursuance of a decree of the senate, he posted with

the Italian cavalry on the left wing; Masinissa and

the Numidians on the right. The openings between

the companies of the cohorts he filled up with light-

armed troops, and gave them directions on the attack

of the elephants, either to retire to the rear of the files,

or, opening to right and left, to form along with the

cohorts, so as to leave a passage for those beasts,

through which they might advance exposed on both

sides to their weapons. Hannibal, in order to strike

terror, placed his elephants in the front; of these there

were eighty (a number greater than he had ever before

brought into the field); next to them the auxiliary Li-

gurians and Gauls, with the Balearians and Moors in­

termixed. In the second line he placed the Carthagi­

nians, Africans, and the legion of Macedonians; and

then, leaving a moderate interval, he formed the line

of reserve, consisting of Italian soldiers, chiefly Brut-

tians, a greater number of whom followed him on his

departure from Italy by compulsion and through ne­

cessity, rather than from inclination. He also covered

the flanks with cavalry, the Carthaginians being posted

on the right, the Numidians on the left. Various were

the methods of encouragement made use of among

such a number of men, differing from each other in

language, in manners, in laws, in arms, in garb, in

temper, and in their motives for engaging in the ser­

vice. To the auxiliaries was held out present gain, and

that to be greatly increased by future plunder. The

Gauls were inflamed by rousing their peculiar and na­

tural hatred to the Romans. To the Ligurians, who had

been brought down from craggy mountains, the fertile

