10 LIVY.

Lucius Arennius, interposed. They asserted that' the

re-electing of the same person to the supreme magis­

tracy was not easily reconcilable to the principles of a

republic; and much more pernicious would the pre­

cedent be, if the very person who presided at the elec­

tion were himself to be chosen. If therefore the dic­

tator admitted his own name in the list of candidates,

they would protest against the election; but if he re­

ceived on the list any other except himself, they would

give no obstruction to the business.' The dictator

maintained the propriety of the proceedings of the as­

sembly, on the grounds of a vote of the senate, an

order of the people, and several precedents: for ' in

the consulate of Cneius Servilius, wheu the other con­

sul Cains Flaminius had fallen at the Thrasymenus,

the question was, by direction of the senate, proposed

to the people, and the people ordered that so long as

the war continued in Italy it should be lawful for

them to re-elect to the consulship, and that as often as

they should see proper, any of those who had already

held that office. As to precedents in point, he had one

of ancient date, in the case of Lucius Postumius Me-

gellus, who, while be was interrex, was, in the assem­

bly where he himself presided, created consul, with

Caius Junius Bubulcus; and a recent one, in the case

of Quintus Fabius, who certainly would never have

suffered himself to be re-elected if it were inconsistent

with the public good.' After long dispute, maintained

by these arguments, an agreement at last took place

between the dictator and the tribunes to abide by the

determination of the senate. The senators were of

opinion that the present state of the commonwealth

was such as required that the administration of its

affairs should be in the hands of experienced com­

manders, skilled in all the arts of war; and they

therefore disapproved of any opposition to the pro­

ceedings of the assembly of election. The tribunes

then acquiesced, and the election proceeded. Quintus

Fabius Maximus a fifth time, and Quintus Fulvius

Flaccus a fourth, were declared consuls. The follow-

