HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXIX. 207

(which was not surprising, as most of these fleets had

only gone in quest of plunder), or even in any former

one. And yet his force could not be fully estimated

from a view of the present armament, for not only two

consuls with their armies had passed from thence be­

fore, but there had been almost as many war-vessels in

their fleets as there were transports attending Scipio.

These, it is true, were not less than four hundred, but

of ships of battle he had only fifty. But the Romans

had more alarming apprehensions from one war than

from the other; from the second, than from the former;

as well by reason of its being waged in Italy, as of the

dreadful destruction of so many armies, together with

their commanders. Scipio, however, had attracted an

extraordinary degree of attention. He had acquired a

high degree of renown, partly by his bravery, partly

by the happy success which had attended it, and which

gave room to expect from him the most glorious

achievements. Besides, the very object proposed of

passing into the enemy's country, which had not been

attempted by any general during that war, strongly

roused men's feelings; for he had on all occasions

publicly declared that his intention was to draw Han­

nibal away from Italy, to transfer the war to Africa,

and to finish it there. Not only the whole of the in­

habitants of Lilybaeum crowded together to the harbor

to get a view of them, but also deputies from all parts

of Sicily; who came for the purpose of showing that

mark of respect, not only to Scipio, but to Marcus

Pomponius, pretor of the province. The legions like­

wise, which were to be left on the island, quitted their

quarters in compliment to their fellow-soldiers. In a

word, the fleet exhibited a grand prospect to those on

land, and the land to those on ship-board, it being

covered all round with the admiring multitude.

27. As soon as day appeared, a herald having com­

manded silence, Scipio, in the admiral's ship, spoke

thus: 'Ye gods and goddesses, who preside over the

seas and lands, I pray and beseech you that whatever

affairs have been carried on, or shall hereafter be car­

