HISTORY OF ROME.- BOOK XXXII. 371

and a part of the wall demolished by the enemy's works,

they became disposed to capitulate. But they had a

garrison of Macedonians, of whom they stood in no

less dread than of the Romans; and Philocles, the

king's general, sent frequent messages from Chalcis,

that he would bring them succor in due time, if they

could hold out the siege. The hope of this, in con足

junction with their fears, obliged them to protract the

time longer than was consistent either with their wishes

or their strength. However, having learned soon after

that Philocles had been repulsed in the attempt, and

forced to fly back in disorder to Chalcis, they instantly

sent deputies to Attalns to beg pardon and protection.

While intent on the prospect of peace, they remitted

their diligence in the duties of war, and kept armed

guards in that quarter only where the breach had been

made in the wall, neglecting all the rest; Quintius

made an assault by night on the side where it was least

apprehended, and carried the town by scalade. The

townsmen, with their wives and children, fled into the

citadel, but soon after surrendered themselves pri足

soners. The quantity of money, of gold and silver

taken, was not great. Of statues and pictures, the

works of ancient artists, and other ornaments of that

kind, a greater number was found than could be ex足

pected, either from the size of the city, or its opulence

in other particulars.

17. The design on Carystus was then resumed, and

the fleets sailed thither; on which the whole body of

the inhabitants, before the troops were disembarked,

deserted the city and fled into the citadel, whence they

sent deputies to beg protection from the Roman general.

To the townspeople life and liberty were immediately

granted; and it was ordered that the Macedonians

should pay a ransom of three hundred drachmas' a

head, deliver up their arms, and quit the country.

After being thus ransomed, they were transported, un足

armed, to Boeotia. The combined fleets having, in the

'91.13s. 9d.

