HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXIX. 219

charge; but soon after greater numbers pouring out,

and their whole force of cavalry joining in the conflict,

they could no longer be resisted. Yet Masinissa did

not betake himself to a hasty flight, but retired lei足

surely, until he drew them on to the hills which con足

cealed the Roman cavalry. These immediately rising

up, their strength unimpaired, and their horses fresh,

spread themselves round Hanno and the Africans, who

were fatigued in the pursuit; and Masinissa, suddenly

wheeling about, returned to the charge. About one

thousand, who composed the first division, and who

could not easily retreat, were, together with Hanno

the commander, surrounded and slain; the rest, terri足

fied principally by the death of their general, fled in

confusion, and were pursued for thirty miles by the

conquerors, who took or slew two thousand more of

the cavalry. It appeared that there were among the9e

not less than two hundred Carthaginian horsemen,

several of them of the richest and most distinguished

families.

35. It happened that the same day on which this

battle was fought the ships which had carried the

booty to Sicily, returned with stores, as if they had

foreseen that they were to bear away another cargo as

before. All writers do not mention two generals of

the Carthaginians of the same name being slain in two

battles of the cavalry; apprehending, I suppose, that

there was a mistake, occasioned by the same fact being

related twice. Nay, Coelius and Valerius even assert

that Hanno was taken prisoner. Scipio made presents

to the officers and horsemen, according to the behavior

of each; and, above all, he paid extraordinary honors

to Masinissa. Having placed a strong garrison in

Salera, he set out with the rest of the army; and not

only laid waste the country wherever he marched, but

also took some cities and towns, and thereby widely

diffused the terror of his arms. Scipio returned to

the camp on the seventh day after he had left it, bring足

ing with him a great number of men and cattle, and a

vast quantity of plunder. He then dismissed the

