152 LIVY.

years? No: with that glory which I have already

acquired 1 am to live and die. I stopped the career of

Hannibal's conquests, that you, whose powers are now

in vigor, might be able to gain conquests over him.

41. 'As I never, in my own case, regarded the opi­

nion of the world when set in competition with the ad­

vantage of the state, it will be but reasonable that you

pardon me, Publius Cornelius, if I do not consider

even your fame in preference to the public good. If

either there were no war in Italy, or the enemy here

were such that a victory over him would be produc­

tive of no glory, he who should attempt to retain you

in Italy, notwithstanding that he consulted therein the

general welfare, might seem to intend, while he re­

strained you from removing the war, to deprive you of

a subject of future glory. Yet Hannibal, a powerful

enemy, with an army unimpaired, maintains a footing

in Italy for the fourteenth year. Would you then have

reason to be dissatisfied, Publius Cornelius, with your

share of fame, if you should in your consulate expel

such a foe from out of Italy; a foe, who has been the

cause of so much mourning, of so many calamities to

us 1 In fine, should you not be content to enjoy the

reputation of having finished the present Punic war,

as Caius Lutatius did that of finishing the former?

Unless, indeed, you will say that Hamilcar is a gene­

ral more formidable than Hannibal; or that a war in

Africa is of greater importance than it would be in

Italy; that a victory there, supposing it should be our

good fortune to obtain such while you are consul,

would be more profitable and illustrious than one here.

Would you choose to draw away Hamilcar from Dre-

panum or Eryx, rather than to expel the Carthaginians

and Hannibal out of Italy? Although you should look

with a more partial regard on the renown which you

have acquired, than on that which you have in pros­

pect, yet surely you would not pride yourself so much

in having freed Spain, as in freeing Italy. Hannibal

is not yet in such a condition, that he who prefers en­

gaging with another general must not evidently ap-

Ik

