118 LIVY.

ment which they must all expect, with a disgraceful

death, were before their eyes. Farther, their courage

was inflamed by mutual emulation in toil and danger,

and even by the sight of each other. Thus animated,

they opposed the enemy with such determined bravery,

that the army which had subdued all Spain was often

repulsed from the walls, and began, in a contest with

the youth of a single town, not much to their honor,

to abate of their ardor. Scipio perceiving this, and

dreading lest by these unsuccessful attempts the cou足

rage of the enemy should be raised, and his own men

dispirited, thought it necessary to exert himself in

person, and take a share in the danger. Whereon,

reprimanding the troops for their want of spirit, he

ordered ladders to be brought to him, threatening to

mount the wall himself, since the rest were backward;

and, accordingly, he had already advanced near it,

and not without danger, when a shout was raised on

all sides by the soldiers, alarmed at the situation of

the general, and the scalade was attempted at once.

Laslius, too, pressed on at the other side. The inha足

bitants were then no longer able to make opposition,

and those who defended the walls being beaten off, the

Romans took possession of them.

20. The citadel, too, during the tumult, being at足

tacked on that side where it was thought impregnable,

was taken. While the inhabitants were engaged in

defence of those places where the danger appeared,

and the Romans, in making greater approaches where

they found it practicable, some African deserters, who

were then among the Roman auxiliaries, observed,

that the most elevated part of the town, though pro足

tected by a very high rock, was neither secured by

any works, nor provided with men for its defence. As

they were light of body, and very active from constant

exercise, carrying iron spears along with them, they

climbed up, by means of the irregular prominences of

the rock; and when they met with a cliff too high and

smooth, by driving in the spikes at moderate distances,

they formed a kind of steps. In this manner, the fore-

