LIVY.

ditary kingdom, submitted to him with joy, as to a

prince whom they had long and earnestly wished to

hail. Syphax, seeing all his commanders and garri­

sons expelled from thence, retired within his own ori­

ginal dominions, but in no disposition to remain quiet.

In his ambitious views he was spurred on by his queen

and father-in-law; and indeed he possessed such abun­

dance of men and horses, that a mind less barbarous

and violent than his might well assume confidence;

and when reflecting on the great strength of a king­

dom, which had enjoyed prosperity for a long course

of years. Wherefore, collecting together all who were

able to bear arms, he distributed among them horses

and weapons: he divided the horsemen into troops,

and the footmen into cohorts, as he had formerly

learned from the Roman centurions; and thus, with

an army not less numerous than that which he had

before, but composed almost intirely of raw undisci­

plined men, he advanced towards the enemy, and

pitched his camp at a small distance from theirs. At

first a few horsemen advanced from the outposts to

make observations; these, being attacked with jave­

lins, retreated to their friends. Skirmishing parties

then came forth from both sides; and whichever of

these were repulsed, their fellows, being inflamed with

indignation, came up in greater numbers to their sup­

port. This is generally the prelude to engagements

between the cavalry; hope encouraging the party which

prevails, and rage exasperating that which is worsted.

Thus, on the present occasion, the fight having com­

menced between small divisions, the eagerness of the

dispute drew out at length the whole force of cavalry

on both sides. While the contest lay intirely between

these, the Massesylians, whom Syphax sent out in im­

mense bodies, could hardly be withstood. Afterwards

the Roman infantry rushing in suddenly between their

own cavalry, who opened passages for them, gave

firmness to their line, and terrified the enemy, who

were advancing furiously to the charge. The barba­

rians at first pushed on their horses with less brisk­

