HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXVII. 83

animals began to grow furious, and to rush on their

own party, the manager of each, fixing this instrument

between its ears, on the joint which connects the head

with tbe neck, drove it in with the strongest blow that

he could give. This had been found the speediest me­

thod of killing animals of that great size, when they

had become so unruly as to leave no hope of managing

them; and it had been first brought into practice by

Hasdrubal, whose conduct in the command of an army,

as on many other occasions, so particularly in this

battle, merited very high encomiums. By his exhor­

tations, and by taking an equal share in the dangers,

he supported the spirits of his men ; and at one time

by intreaties, at another by reproofs, he reanimated

the wearied, when, from the length and labor of the

action, they were disposed to lay down their arms.

He called back the ffying, and restored the battle in

many places where it had been given up. At last,

when Fortune evidently declared for the Romans, un­

willing to survive so great an army, which had fol­

lowed his standard on the credit of his reputation, he

set spurs to his horse, and plunged himself into the

midst of a Roman cohort; where, as became the son

of Hamilcar, and the brother of Hannibal, he fell fight­

ing. In no one action, during that war, were so great

numbers of the enemy slain; so much so, indeed, that

the damage retorted on him was deemed equivalent to

that sustained at Cannse. Fifty-six thousand of them

were killed, and five thousand four hundred taken.

The other booty was great of every kind, as well as of

gold and silver. Besides which, there were recovered

above four thousand Roman citizens, prisoners, which

was some consolation for the soldiers lost in the battle;

for the victory was far from a bloodless one, nearly

eight thousand of the Romans and allies being killed.

And so far were even the victors satiated with blood

and slaughter, that next day, when the consul Livius

was told that the Cisalpine Gauls and Ligurians, who

had either not been present in the battle, or had made

their escape from the general carnage, were marching

