HISTORY OF ROME.— BOOK XXXII. 393

ger hoping to decide the matter by a single battle, he

began again to lay waste the lands, burn the houses,

and storm the villages. At this time Clastidium was

burned, and the legions were led thence against the

Ilvatian Ligurians, who alone refused to submit. That

state also, on learning that the Insubrians had been

defeated in battle, and the Boians so terrified that they

had not dared to risk an engagement, made a submis­

sion. Letters from the consuls, containing accounts

of their successes, came from Gaul to Rome at the

same time. Marcus Sergius, city pretor, read them

in the senate, and afterwards, by direction of the

Fathers, in an assembly of the people; on which a

supplication, of four days' continuance, was decreed.

■—By this time winter had begun.

32. During the winter, while Titus Quintius, after

the reduction of Elatia, had his troops cantoned in

Phocis and Locris, a violent dissension broke out at

Opus. One faction invited to their assistance the

jEtolians, who were nearest at hand; the other the

Romans. The jEtolians arrived first; but the other

party, which was the more powerful, refused them ad­

mittance, and, despatching a courier to the Roman

general, held the citadel until he arrived. The citadel

was possessed by a garrison belonging to the king,

and they could not be prevailed on to give it up, either

by the threats of the people of Opus, or by the com­

mands of the Roman consul. What prevented their

being immediately attacked was the arrival of an en­

voy from the king, to solicit the appointing of a time

and place for a conference. This request was readily

complied with; not that Quintius did not wish to see

war concluded under his own auspices, partly by

arms, and partly by negotiation: for he knew not

yet whether one of the new consuls would be sent to

take the government in his room, or whether he

should be continued in the command; a point which

he had charged his friends and relations to labor with

all their might. But he thought that a conference

would answer this purpose: that it would put it in his

