HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXVIII. 147

chief pontiff. We are told that this election was at­

tended by a greater concourse of people than any

during that war. They had come together from all

parts, not only for the purpose of giving their votes,

but of getting a sight of Scipio; and ran in crowds,

both to his house and to the capitol, while he was per­

forming sacrifice, by offering to Jupiter a hundred

oxen, which he had vowed on occasion of the mutiny

of the soldiers in Spain. Strong expectations were at

the same time entertained, that as Cains Lutatius had

finished the former Punic war, so Publius Cornelius

Scipio would finish the present; and that, as he had

already expelled the Carthaginians from every part of

Spain, he would in like manner expel them from Italy.

They therefore destined Africa to him as a province,

as if the war in Italy were at an end. The election of

the pretors was then held: two were appointed, who

were at the time plebeian ediles, Spurius Lucretius

and Cneius Octavius; and, of private rank, Cneius

Servilius Caepio and Lucius jEmilius Papus. In the

fourteenth year of the Punic war, as soon as Publius

Cornelius Scipio and Publius Licinius Crassus entered

on the consulship, the provinces for the consuls were

named; for Scipio, Sicily, without drawing lots, with

the consent of his colleague, because the necessary

attendance on religious matters required the presence

of the chief pontiff in Italy; for Crassus, Bruttium.

The provinces of the pretors were then disposed of by

lot; that of the city fell to Cneius Servilius; Arimi-

num (so they called Gaul) to Spurius Lucretius; Si­

cily to Lucius iEmilius; and Sardinia to Cneius Octa­

vius. The senate was held in the capitol; there, on

the matter being proposed by Publius Scipio, a decree

was made, that the games which he had vowed during

the mutiny of the soldiers in Spain should be exhibited,

and the expense defrayed out of the money which him­

self had conveyed to the treasury.

39. He then introduced to the senate ambassadors

from Saguntum, the eldest of whom addressed them in

this manner: 'Conscript fathers, although there is no

