276 livy.

of Hannibal to sue for peace. These coming under

the stern of the general's ship, holding out the badges

of supplicants, besought and implored the favor and

compassion of Scipio: but they received no other an­

swer, than that they should come to Tunes, to which

place he intended to remove his camp. Then, after

taking a view of the situation of Carthage, not so

much for the sake of any present use which he in­

tended to make of his knowlege of it, as of dispiriting

the enemy, he returned to Utica, and at the same time

recalled Octavius thither. As they advanced towards

Tunes, an account was brought that Vermina, son of

Syphax, with a greater number of horse than of foot,

was coming to the aid of the Carthaginians. A de­

tachment of the army, with all the cavalry, attacking

this body of Numidians on their march, on the first

day of the Saturnalia, routed them without much diffi­

culty; and every possibility of flight being cut off by

the surrounding cavalry, fifteen thousand men were

slain, one thousand two hundred taken, together with

fifteen hundred horses, and seventy-two military

standards. The prince himself, with very few attend­

ants, made his escape during the tumult. The camp

was then pitched near Tunes, in the same place as be­

fore, whither thirty ambassadors came from Carthage

to Scipio, and the behavior of these was much more

calculated to excite compassion than that of the former,

as their distress was still increasing. But, from the

recollection of their late perfidy, they were heard with

the less pity. In the council, though all were stimu­

lated by just resentment to pursue Carthage to de­

struction, yet, when they considered how great an un­

dertaking it was, and what a length of time the siege

of a city, so strong and so well fortified, would re­

quire, (Scipio himself also being uneasy, under the

apprehension of a successor being appointed in his

place, who might claim the glory of having terminated

the war, though it had been actually brought to an

issue by the labors and dangers of another,) they all

became inclined to peace.

