HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXXII. 403

ing their city by force, which was put into his hands

by the treachery of Philocles; while Nabis insisted,

that he had been invited by the Argives themselves to

afford them protection. The king required a general

assembly of the Argives to be convened, that the truth

of that matter might be known. To this the tyrant did

not object; but the king alleged that the Lacedaemo­

nian troops ought to be withdrawn from the city, in

order to render the assembly free; and that the people

should be left at liberty to declare their real senti­

ments. This was refused, and the debate produced no

effect. To the Roman general six hundred Cretans

were given by Nabis, who agreed with the pretor of

the Achaeans to a cessation of arms for four months,

and then the conference broke up. Quintius proceeded

to Corinth, advancing to the gates with the cohort of

Cretans, in order to show Philocles, the governor of

the city, that the tyrant had deserted the cause of

Philip. Philocles came out to confer with the Roman

general; and, on the latter exhorting him to change

sides immediately, and surrender the city, he answered

in such a manner as showed an inclination rather to

defer, than to refuse the matter. From Corinth, Quin­

tius sailed over to Anticyra, and sent his brother thence

to sound the disposition of the people of Acarnania.

Attalus went from Argos to Sicyon. Here, on one

side, the state added new honors to those formerly

paid to the king; and, on the other, the king, besides

having on a former occasion redeemed for them, at a

vast expense, a piece of land sacred to Apollo, un­

willing to pass by the city of his friends and allies

without a token of munificence, made them a present

of ten talents of silver,i and ten thousand bushels of

corn, and then returned to Cenchreae to his fleet.

Nabis, leaving a strong garrison at Argos, returned to

Lacedaemon; and, as be himself had pillaged the men,

he sent his wife to Argos to pillage the women. She

i 19371.10s.

