170 LIVY.

they were among friends, they arrived at the place

where the enemy lay, and pitched their tents at three

miles' distance from the Spanish camp. By sending

ambassadors they endeavored to prevail on them to

lay aside their arms, but in vain. Afterwards, the

Spanish horsemen having made a sudden attack on the

foragers of the Romans, and the latter sending some

troops to support them from one of their outposts,

there ensued a battle between the cavalry, in which

neither side gained any considerable advantage.

3. At sunrise next day the whole force of the enemy

appeared in arms, and drawn up in order of battle, at

the distance of about a mile from the Roman camp.

The Ausetanians were in the centre, the Illergetians

formed the right wing, and people of several inconsi足

derable Spanish states the left: between the wings and

the main body they had left very wide intervals, through

which the horse might charge on occasion. The Ro足

mans drew up their army in the usual manner, yet so

far following the example of the enemy as to leave

passages open for the cavalry between the legions.

Lentulus, however, considering that the horse could

be of use only to that party which should first make

an attack on the enemy's line, divided by the intervals,

commanded Servius Cornelius, tribune of the soldiers,

to order them to charge through the same. The fight

between the infantry being rather unfavorable to the

Romans at the beginning, he was obliged to delay for

a time, while the thirteenth legion from the reserve

was brought up to the first line, so as to support the

twelfth, which had been posted in the left wing against

the Illergetians, and which began to give ground. The

fight being restored Scipio hastened to Lucius Manlius,

who was exerting himself among the foremost batta足

lions, encouraging and supporting his men by a supply

of fresh troops wherever occasion required, and ac足

quainted him that matters were safe on the left wing,

and that Cornelius Servius, whom he had despatched

for the purpose, would quickly assail the enemy on all

sides with his cavalry. Scarcely had he uttered these

