94 LIVY.

lighted, might be seen from afar. He fixed a beacon

on Tisaeum, a mountain whose summit is of an immense

height, that, by means of lights on these eminences,

whenever the enemy made any attempt, he might,

though distant, receive instant intelligence of it. The

Roman general and king Attalus passed over from Pe-

parethus to Nicaea, and from thence sailed to the city

of Orcus, which is the first city of Euboea on the left,

on the way from the bay of Demetrias to Chalcis and

the Euripus.

6. It was concerted between Attalus and Sulpicius

that the Romans should assault the town on the side

next the sea, and at the same time make an attack on

the king's forces on the land side. Four days after

the arrival of the fleet the operations began. The in­

termediate time had been spent in private conferences

with Plator, who had been appointed by Philip to the

command of the place. There are two citadels, one

hanging over the coast, the other in the middle of the

town, and from this there is a subterraneous passage

to the ocean, the entrance of which, next to the sea, is

covered with a strong fortification, a tower five stories

in height. Here the contest first commenced, and that

with the utmost violence, the tower being well stored

with all kinds of weapons; these, with engines and

machines for the assault, having been landed from the

ships. While the attention and eyes of all were drawn

to that side, Plator, opening one of the gates, received

the Romans into the citadel next the sea, of which

they became masters in a moment. The inhabitants,

driven thence, fled to the other citadel in the middle

of the city; but troops had been posted there to keep

the gates shut against them; so that, being thus ex­

cluded and surrounded, they were all either slain or

taken prisoners. In the mean time, the Macedonian

garrison making no resistance, stood in a compact body

under the walls. These men Plator (having obtained

leave from Sulpicius) embarked in some ships, and

landed them at Demetrias in Phthiotis; he himself

withdrew to Attalus. Sulpicius, elated by his success

