HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXX. 279

not send ambassadors to any other place than to Rome;

and that if any such should come to Carthage, they

should not dismiss them until the Roman general was

made acquainted with their business. With the Car­

thaginian ambassadors were sent to Rome Lucius Ve-

turius Philo, Marcius Ralla, and Lucius Scipio, the

general's brother. From that time the great supplies

from Sicily and Sardinia caused such cheapness of

provisions, that the merchant often furnished corn to

the mariners for the freight. At Rome there had been

some uneasiness on the first account of the Carthagi­

nians having recommenced hostilities, and Tiberius

Claudius had been ordered to conduct the fleet to

Sicily with all expedition, and to pass over from

thence to Carthage; and the other consul, Marcus

Servilius, to remain in the city, until the state of affairs

in Africa should be known. Tiberius Claudius pro­

ceeded slowly in every step towards the equipment

and sailing of the fleet, being offended at the senate

having voted that Scipio, in preference to the consul,

should have the honor of prescribing the terms of

peace. Accounts of prodigies also, arriving a little

before the news of the revival of hostilities, had raised

people's apprehensions. At Cumae, the orb of the sun

seemed to be diminished, and a shower of stones fell;

and in the district of Veliturnum, the earth sunk in

great chasms, in which trees were swallowed. At Ari-

cia, the forum, and shops round it; at Frusino, several

parts of the wall, and a gate, were struck by lightning.

On the Palatine hill, too, a shower of stones fell. This

prodigy, according to the method handed down by tra­

dition, was expiated by a nine days' solemnity; the

others by the greater victims. Among the rest, an

unusual overflowing of the rivers was also considered

as a prodigy; for there was such an inundation of the

Tiber, that, the circus being filled with water, prepa­

rations for the games of Apollo were made on the out­

side of the Colline gate, near the temple of Venus

Erycina. But on the very day of the games, the

weather suddenly clearing up, the procession, which

