216 livy.

tion, he set out again with wonderful resolution to

make another effort for the recovery of his kingdom.

He collected in his way not more than forty horse­

men; but, as soon as he arrived among the Massy-

lians, and made himself known to them, they were so

powerfully actuated both by their former affection and

the unhoped-for joy at seeing him in safety, whom

they believed to have perished, that in a few days six

thousand armed foot and four thousand horse repaired

to his standard; and he not only got possession of his

father's kingdom, but laid waste the countries in al­

liance with the Carthaginians, and the frontiers of the

Masaesylians, the dominion of Syphax. Having thus

provoked the Numidians to war, he took post between

Cirtha and Hippo, on the tops of mountains, in a

situation convenient for all his purposes.

33. Syphax, thinking this an affair of too much im­

portance to he intrusted to the management of his

generals, sent a part of his army with his son Ver-

mina, then a youth, with orders to march round in a

circuit, and fall on the enemy's rear when he himself

should have attracted their attention to his side. Ver-

mina set out by night, so as to be concealed until he

should begin the attack; but Syphax decamped in the

day, and marched openly, as he was to engage in a

regular pitched battle. When he thought that suffi­

cient time had been allowed for those who had been

sent round to have arrived at their station, he led his

forces by a gentle acclivity directly up the mountain,

for he relied both on his numbers and the ambuscade

which he had prepared on his enemy's rear. Masi-

nissa, on the other side, drew up his men, depending

chiefly on the advantage of the ground; although, had

it been much less in his favor, he would not have de­

clined the fight. The battle was furious, and for a

long time doubtful: Masinissa being favored by his

situation and the bravery of his men; Syphax by his

numbers, which were more than abundant. This great

multitude being divided, one part pressed on in front,

while the other part surrounded the rear; which gave

