64 LIVY.

a second time; and as they had already, when consuls

elect, cast lots for their provinces, they now ordered

the pretors to do the same. To Caius Hostilius fell

the city jurisdiction, to which the foreign was added,

in order that three pretors might go abroad to the pro足

vinces. To Aulus Hostilius fell Sardinia; to Caius

Mamilius, Sicily; and to Lucius Porcius, Gaul. The

whole of the legions, amounting to twenty-three, were

distributed in such manner that each of the consuls

should have two, Spain four, the three pretors, in

Sicily, Sardinia, and Gaul, two each; Caius Teren-

tius, in Etruria, two; Quintus Fulvius, in liruttium,

two; Quintus Claudius, about Tarentum and Sallen-

tum, two; Caius Hostilius Tubulus, at Capua, one;

and two were ordered to be raised for the city. For

the first four legions the people elected tribunes; for

the rest they were appointed by the consuls.

37. Before the consuls left home the nine days'

solemnity was performed, on account of a shower of

stones having fallen from the sky at Veii. The men足

tion of one prodigy was, as usual, followed by reports

of others; that the temple of Jupiter at Miuturnae, a

grove at Marica, a wall and a gate of Atella, had been

struck by lightning. The people of Minturntc said,

what was still more terrifying, that a stream of blood

had flowed in at one of their gates: at Capua, too, a

wolf came into one of the gates, and tore the sentinel.

These prodigies were expiated with victims of the

greater kinds; and a supplication of one day's con足

tinuance was ordered by the pontiffs. The nine days'

solemnity was afterwards performed a second time, on

account of a shower of stones seen to fall during the

armilustrum. The people's minds were no sooner

freed from religious apprehensions than they were

again disturbed by an account that at Frusino an in足

fant was born of a size equal to that of a child four

years old, and wonderful, not only for its bulk, but

for its sex being doubtful; as had been the case of the

one born two years before, at Sinuessa. Aruspices,

