LIVY.

briskly approaching the walls, were particularly terri­

fying to the Greeks, insomuch, that they immediately

fled into the citadel, leaving the city in the power of

the enemy. After holding out for two days in the

citadel, relying more on the strength of the place than

on their arms, on the third both they and the garrison

capitulated, on condition of their being transported to

Delium in Boeotia, and being each of them allowed a

single suit of apparel. The island was yielded up by

the Romans to king Attalus; the spoil, and the orna­

ments of the city, they themselves carried off. Attalus,

desirous that the island, of which he had got posses­

sion, might not be quite deserted, persuaded almost all

the Macedonians, and several of the Andrians, to re­

main there; and, in some time after, those who, ac­

cording to the capitulation, had been transported to

Delium, were induced to return from thence by the

promises made them by the king, in which they were

disposed the more readily to confide, by the ardent

affection which they felt for their native country. From

Andros the combined army passed over to Cythnus:

there they spent several days to no purpose, in at­

tempting to get possession of the city ; when, at length,

finding it scarcely worth the trouble, they departed.

At Prasiae, a place on the main land of Attica, twenty

barks of the Issrcans joined the Roman fleet. These

were sent to ravage the lands of the Carystians, the

rest of the fleet lying at Geraestus, a noted harbor in

Euboea, until their return from Carystus: on which,

setting sail together, and steering their course through

the open sea, until they passed by Scyrus, they arrived

at the island of Icus. Being detained there for a few

days by a violent northerly wind, as soon as it abated,

they passed over to Sciathus, a city which had been

lately plundered and desolated by Philip. The sol­

diers, spreading themselves over the country, brought

back to the ships corn and many other kinds of pro­

visions. Plunder there was none, nor had the Greeks

deserved to be plundered. Directing their course to

Cassandrea, they first came to Mendis, a village on

