312 LIVY.

just and advantageous.' The terms were then settled,

and he was ordered to send ambassadors to Rome to

procure a ratification of the treaty.

20. About the same time Lucius Cornelius Lentu-

lus, proconsul, came home from Spain; and having

laid before the senate an account of his brave and suc­

cessful conduct, during the course of many years, de­

manded that he might be allowed to enter the city in

triumph. The senate, on this, gave their opinion, that

'his services were, indeed, deserving of a triumph;

but that they had no precedent left them by their an­

cestors, of any person enjoying a triumph, who was

not, at the time of performing the service, on account

of which he claimed that honor, either dictator, con­

sul, or pretor; that he had held the province of Spain

in quality of proconsul, and not of consul, or pretor.'

They determined however that he might enter the city

in ovation. Against this Tiberius Sempronius Lon-

gus, tribune of the people, protested, alleging, that

such proceedings would be no less unprecedented, and

contrary to the practice of their ancestors, than the

other; but, overcome at length by the unanimous de­

sire of the senate, the tribune withdrew his opposition,

and Lucius Lentulus entered the city in ovation. He

carried to the treasury forty-four thousand pounds

weight of silver, and two thousand four hundred pounds

weight of gold. To each of the soldiers he distributed,

of the spoil, one hundred and twenty asses.i

21. The consular army had by this time removed

from Arretium to Ariminum, and the five thousand

Latine confederates had gone from Gaul into Etruria.

Lucius Furius therefore advanced from Ariminum, by

forced marches, against the Gauls, who were then be­

sieging Cremona, and pitched his camp at the distance

of one mile and a half from the enemy. Furius had

an excellent opportunity of striking an important blow,

had he, without halting, led his troops directly to attack

their camp; they were scattered and dispersed through

i 7s. 9d.

