HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXX. 289

were terminated. Much I dread lest you quickly feel

that the subject of your tears this day is the lightest of

your misfortunes.' Such were Hannibal's sentiments

which he delivered to the Carthaginians. Scipio, hav­

ing called an assembly, bestowed on Masinissa, in ad­

dition to his paternal kingdom, the city of Cirtha, and

the other cities and lands belonging to the territories

of Syphax, which had fallen into the hands of the Ro­

man people. He ordered Cneius Octavius to conduct

the fleet to Sicily, and deliver it to the consul Cneins

Cornelius; and the ambassadors of the Carthaginians

to go to Rome, in order that the terms stipulated for

by him might be ratified by the authority of the senate

and the order of the people.

45. Peace being established by sea and land, he em­

barked his army, and carried it over to Lilybasum in

Sicily; and from thence, sending a great part of his

troops round by sea, he himself landed in Italy. As

he proceeded through the country, he found it no less

delighted at finding there was an end to the war, than

at the success in it; not only the inhabitants of the

cities pouring out to show their respect to him, but

crowds of the country-people also filling up the roads:

and thus he arrived at Rome, where he entered the

city in the most splendid triumph which had ever been

beheld. He carried into the treasury a hundred and

twenty-three thousand pounds weight of silver, and

out of the spoil distributed to each of his soldiers four

hundred asses.i The death of Syphax caused some

diminution in the splendor of the show, but none in

the glory of the general who triumphed. He died a

short time before at Tibur, to which place he had been

removed from Alba. His death, however, made some

noise, for he was honored with a public funeral. Po-

lybius, a writer of no contemptible authority, asserts

that this king was led in triumph. Quintus Terentius

Culleo followed Scipio in his triumph, with a cap on his

head ;s and through his whole life after, as became him,

i 11.5s. lOd. 2 The symbol of liberty.

LIV. VOL. V. T

