192 livy.

revolt, and if it also appeared that our return to obe­

dience, and to acknowlegement of your authority, was

not only voluntary, but effected by our own co-opera­

tion and courage, you would see the greater indigna­

tion at such grievous and unmerited injuries being in­

flicted on good and faithful allies, by your lieutenant-

general and his soldiers. But I think it better to de­

fer the subject of our changes of party to another

time; and that for two reasons: first, that it may be

discussed in the presence of Publius Scipio, who re­

gained possession of Locri, and was a witness of our

behavior, whether good or bad; and secondly, that,

let our conduct have been what it may, we ought not

to have suffered the evils which have been poured on

us. We cannot, conscript fathers, disown, that while

we had a Carthaginian garrison, we suffered many

cruelties and indignities, as well from Hamilcar the

commander there, as from' the Numidians and Afri­

cans. But what are these, when compared with what

we this day endure? I request, conscript fathers, that

you will hear, without being offended, what I unwill­

ingly mention. All mankind are in suspense whether

they are to see you or the Carthaginians sovereigns of

the world. Now, if an estimation were to be formed

of the Roman and Carthaginian governments from the

treatment which we of Locri have borne on the one

hand, and from that which on the other we at this pre­

sent time bear, without remission, from your garrison,

there is no one who would not rather choose Africans

than Romans for his masters. Yet, observe what dis­

positions the Locrensiaus have, notwithstanding, shown

towards you. When we were ill treated by the Car­

thaginians in a much less degree, we had recourse to

your general for redress. Now, when we suffer from

your garrison worse than hostile cruelty, we have car­

ried our complaints to no other but to you. Conscript

fathers, you will consider our desperate situation, or

we are left without any resource for which we can

even pray to the immortal gods. Quintus Pleminius,

lieutenant-general, was sent with a body of troops to

