HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXX. 273

The shout on the side of the Romans was composed of

the same sounds uttered by every one; consequently

it was the stronger and more terrible: on the other

side, the sounds were dissonant, uttered in the dis­

cordant languages of many different nations. Be­

sides, the Roman manner of fighting was steady,

being accustomed to press against the enemy with

their own weight, and that of their arms. That of the

Carthaginian was more loose, with greater agility than

strength. Immediately, therefore, at the first onset,

the Romans made the line of the enemy give way;

and then, thrusting against them with their elbows and

the bosses of their shields, and stepping forward into

the place from which they had pushed them, they

rapidly gained ground. The rear ranks also, on per­

ceiving the enemy's line shrink, pushed forward those

who were before them, which greatly increased their

force in repelling the enemy. On the other side, the

Africans and Carthaginians, so far from supporting the

auxiliaries, who were giving way, drew back; fearing

lest, if that first line made an obstinate resistance, the

enemy in cutting through those, might close with them.

The auxiliaries therefore quickly turned their backs,

and facing about to their own party, some of them re­

treated into the second line; others, who were not re­

ceived there, made use of their arms against them,

enraged at not having been supported before, and at

being now excluded. So that there were, in a man­

ner, two battles carried on together; the Carthagi­

nians being obliged to engage in fight, and at the same

time, both with their mercenaries and with the Ro­

mans. They did not, however, admit those craven

soldiers into their line, which was still firm and fresh;

but, closing the ranks, drove them off to the wings,

and to the open plains round the field of battle. The

place where the auxiliaries had lately stood was filled

up with such a number of slain, and such a quantity

of arms, that it was rather more difficult to make way

through them, than it had been through the body of

troops; the spearmen, however, who were in the van,

liv. vol. v. s

r

