396 Livv.

and spared the towns as far as they were able, in order

to possess the more opulent empire. For, what sort

of conduct was it to destroy the objects, for the posses­

sion of which the contest was waged, and thereby

leave nothing to himself but fighting? Philip had, in

the last year, desolated more cities of his allies in

Thessaly than all the enemies that Thessaly ever had.

On the jEtolians themselves he had made greater de­

predations, when he was in alliance with them, than

since he became their enemy. He had seized on Ly-

simachia, after dislodging the pretor and garrison of

the jEtolians. Cius also, a city belonging to their

government, he rased from the foundation. With the

same injustice, he held possession of Thebes in Phthi-

otis, of Echinus, Larissa, and Pharsalus.'

84. Philip, provoked by this discourse of Alexander,

pushed his ship nearer to the land, that he might be

the better heard, and began to speak with much vio­

lence, particularly against the jEtolians. But Phameas,

interrupting him, said that 'the business depended not

on words; he must either conquer in war, or submit to

his superiors.'—' That, indeed, is evident,' said Philip,

'even to the blind,' sneering at Phaeneas, who had a

disorder in his eyes; for he was naturally fonder of

such pleasantries than became a king; and even in the

midst of serious business, he indulged a turn to ridicule

farther than was decent. He then expressed great in­

dignation at the ' /Etolians assuming as much import­

ance as the Romans, and insisting on his evacuating

Greece; people who knew not even its boundaries:

for, of jEtolia itself, a large proportion, consisting of

the Agraeans, Apodeotians, and Amphilochians, was

no part of Greece. Have they just ground of com­

plaint against me, for not refraining from war with

their allies, when themselves, from the earliest period,

follow, as an established rule, the practice of suffering

their young men to carry arms against those allies,

withholding only the public authority of the state;

while very frequently contending armies have jEtolian

auxiliaries on both sides? I did not seize on Cius by

