HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXX. 237

time, and saw that no motion was made by the enemy,

they attacked the transports. The affair bore no re­

semblance to a naval engagement; it was more like an

attack made by ships against walls. The transports

bad some advantage in their height; for the Cartha­

ginians, being obliged to throw their weapons upward,

discharged most of them to no purpose against the

higher places; whereas those from the transports fell

with greater force, at the same time gaining additional

power from their own weight. The scouts and lighter

Roman vessels, which pushed out through the open­

ings under the bridges of communication between their

ships, were at first run down by the weight and bulk

of the Carthaginian ships of war; and afterwards they

became an obstruction to those who defended the line,

because, as they were mixed among the enemy's ships,

they often obliged them to stop the discharge of their

weapons, lest, missing their aim, they should hit their

friends. At length the Carthaginians threw among the

Romans beams furnished at the ends with iron hooks,

which the soldiers call harpoons. They could neither

cut the beams, nor the chains by which they were

raised in order to be thrown, so that as soon as any of

the ships of war, hauling back, dragged a transport

entangled by the hook, the fastenings of these vessels

broke, and in some places several were dragged away

together. By this means, chiefly, were all the bridges

torn asunder; and scarcely had the defenders time to

make their escape into the second row of ships. About

six were towed away to Carthage, where the joy of the

people was greater than the occasion merited. But

they were the more sensibly affected because this gleam

of good fortune, however small, had unexpectedly

shone on them, in the midst of a continued course of

losses and lamentations. It appeared that the Roman

fleet would hardly have escaped destruction had not

their own commanders been dilatory, so that Scipio

had time to bring in relief.

'11. Laelius and Masinissa having, about the fifteenth

day, arrived in Numidia, Massylia, Masinissa's here-

