402 LIVY.

might be adjusted between them.' Quintius glad of

an opportunity of depriving Philip of that strong­

hold, along with the rest, consented to come: accord­

ingly, sending a message to Attalus to leave jEgina,

and meet him at Sicyon, he set sail from Anticyra with

ten quinqueremes, which his brother Lucius Quintius

happened to bring a little before from his winter sta­

tion at Corcyra, and passed over to Sicyon. Attalus

was there before him, who, representing that the tyrant

ought to come to the Roman general, not the general

to the tyrant, brought Quintius over to his opinion,

which was, that he should not enter the city of Argos.

Not far from it, however, was a place called Mycenica;

and there the parties agreed to meet. Quintius came

with his brother and a few military tribunes; Attalus,

with his royal retinue; and Nicostratus, the pretor

of the Achasans, with a few of the auxiliary officers:

and they there found Nabis waiting with his whole

army. He advanced, armed and attended by his

guards, almost to the middle of the interjacent plain;

Quintius, unarmed, with his brother and two military

tribunes; the king was accompanied by one of his

nobles, and the pretor of the Achasans, unarmed like­

wise. The tyrant, when he saw the king and the Ro­

man general unarmed, opened the conference, with

apologising for having come to the meeting armed him­

self, and surrounded with armed men. 'He had no

apprehensions,'he said, 'from them; but only from the

Argive exiles.' When they then began to treat of the

terms on which friendship was to be established be­

tween them, the Roman made two demands: one, that

the Lacedaemonian should conclude a peace with the

Achasans; the other, that he should send him aid

against Philip. He promised the aid required; but,

instead of a peace with the Achaeans, a cessation of hos­

tilities was obtained, to last until the war with Philip

should be ended.

40. A debate concerning the Argives also, was set

on foot by king Attalus, who charged Nabis with hold­

