104 LIVY.

in the Flaminian circus; and also, that the temples of

Ceres, Safety, and Romulus, were struck by lightning.

These prodigies the consuls were ordered to expiate

with the greater victims, and to perform a solemn sup­

plication to the gods during one day; all which was

strictly observed, in pursuance of a decree of the se­

nate. But what struck more terror into men's minds

than all these ominous and preternatural appearances,

at home or abroad, was the extinction of the fire in the

temple of Vesta, and for which the vestal who had the

watch for that night was whipped to death by order of

the pontiff Publius Licinius. Although this extinction

was occasioned, not by the gods directing it as a por­

tent, but by the negligence of a human being, yet it

was thought proper that it should be expiated by the

greater victims, and that a supplication should be so­

lemnised at the temple of Vesta. Before the consuls

set out to the campaign they received directions from

the senate to 'take measures to make the common

people return to their lands in the country, where they

might now reside in safety, as, by the favor of the

gods, the war had been removed to a distance from the

city of Rome, and from Latium; for it was quite in­

consistent to pay more attention to the cultivation of

Sicily than to that of Italy.' It was however no easy

matter to obtain a compliance with this injunction:

the laborers of free condition were most of them lost

in the war, slaves were searce, the cattle had been

carried off in booty, and their dwellings thrown down

and burnt. Nevertheless a great number, compelled

by the authority of the consuls, returned as directed.

The mention of this affair had been occasioned by de­

puties from Placentia and Cremona, who complained

that incursions were made on them by the neighboring

Gauls; that a great part of their settlers had dispersed;

that their cities were thinly inhabited, and their terri­

tory waste and deserted. A charge was given to the

pretor Mamilius to protect the colonies from the ene­

my. The consuls, in pursuance of the decree of the

senate, issued an edict, that all the citizens of Cremona

and Placentia should return before a certain day to

