HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXIX. J85

laid waste the lands of the Apollonians, and, marching

his forces up to the city, offered the Romans battle;

they, however, remained quiet, only defending the

walls, while his force was insufficient for laying siege to

the place. He was yet desirous of concluding a peace

with the Romans, as with the vEtolians; or, if that

could not be accomplished, of obtaining a truce; and,

not choosing to provoke their resentment farther by a

new contest, he withdrew into his own kingdom. At

the same time the Epirots, wearied by the length of

the war, having first tried the disposition of the Ro­

mans, sent ambassadors to Philip concerning a general

peace; affirming that they were very confident it

might be brought about, if he would come to a confer­

ence with Publius Sempronius, the Roman general.

They easily prevailed on him to pass into Epirus, for the

king himself was not averse from the measure. There

is a city in Epirus called Phoenice ; there Philip, having

conferred with Eropus, and Dardas, and Philip, pre-

tors of the Epirots, had afterwards a meeting with

Publius Sempronius. Amynander also, king of the

Athamanians, was present at the conference together

with other magistrates of the Epirots and Acarnanians.

Philip the pretor spoke first, and intreated both the

king and the Roman general to put an end to hostili­

ties; and to consider, in a favorable light, the liberty

which the Epirots took in mediating between them.

Publius Sempronius dictated the terms of peace:—

That the Parthinians, and Dimallum, and Bargulum,

and Bugenium, should be under the dominion of the

Romans; that Atintania should be ceded to the Mace­

donian, if, on sending ambassadors, he should obtain

it from the senate. Peace being agreed to on these

terms, the king included in the treaty Prusias, king of

Bithynia, the Achaean!, Boeotians, Thessalians, Acar­

nanians, and Epirots. On the side of the Romans

were included the Ilians, king Attalus, Pleuratus,

Nabis, tyrant of the Lacedaemonians, the Eleans,

Messenians, and Athenians. The conditions were

committed to writing, and signed by both parties, a

