HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXVII. 49

allies, Marcus Aulius was killed, and Lucius Aren-

nius taken: of the lictora of the consuls five fell alive

into the enemy's hands; of the rest, some were slain,

the others fled with the consul. Forty-three horse­

men fell in the fight and pursuit, and eighteen were

made prisoners. The troops in camp had taken the

alarm, and were going fo succor the consuls, when

they saw one consul, and the other consul's son, both

wounded, and the small remains of the unfortunate

party on their return. The death of Marcellus, un­

happy in other respects, was no less so in this, that by

conduct, ill becoming either bis age (for he was now

above sixty years old), or the prudence of a veteran

commander, he had so improvidently precipitated

himself, bis colleague, and, in some measure, the

whole commonwealth, into such desperate hazard. I

should engage in too many and too long discussions on

a single event, if I were to recite all the various rela­

tions given by different writers of the death of Mar­

cellus. To omit other authors, Lucius Caslius pre­

sents us with three different narratives of that occur­

rence; one received by tradition: another written and

contained in the funeral panegyric, delivered by his

son, who was present in the action ; and a third, which

he produces as the real state of the fact, discovered by

bis own inquiries. But how much soever reports vary,

most of them, notwithstanding, concur in stating that

he went out of his camp to view the ground, and all,

that be was slain in an ambuscade.

28. Hannibal, supposing that the enemy must be

greatly dismayed by the death of one of their consuls,

and the wounds of the other, and wishing not to lose

any advantage which a juncture so favorable might

afford, removed his camp immediately to the hill on

which the battle had been fought. Here he found the

body of Marcellus, and interred it. Crispinus, dis­

heartened by his colleague's death and his own wounds,

decamped in the silence of the following night, and on

the nearest mountains that he could reach, pitched

his camp in an elevated spot, secure on all sides. On

liv. vol. v. D

