HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXX. 231

not begin his operations until he should see the fire in

that of the king.' The business was not long delayed;

and as the huts all stood contiguously, the flames

spread rapidly through every part of the camp. The

alarm was great, by reason of its being night, and

from the widely-extended blaze; but the king's troops,

thinking it an accidental calamity, rushed out unarmed,

in order to extinguish the flames, and met the enemy

in arms, particularly the Numidians, whom Masiuissa,

being well acquainted with the king's station, had

posted at the openings of the passes. Many perished

in their beds while half asleep; while many, in their

precipitate flight, crowding on one another, were trod足

den to death in the narrow passages of the gates.

0. When the Carthaginian sentinels, awakened by

the tumult of the night, beheld the fire, they also sup足

posed it to be accidental; while the shout, raised amidst

the slaughter and wounds, was so confused, (the alarm,

too, being in the dark,) that they were unable to dis足

cover the cause or extent of the evil which assailed

them. Running out therefore in the utmost hurry, by

all the gates, without arms, as not suspecting an enemy

to be near, and carrying nothing with them but what

might serve to extinguish the flames, they rushed

against the body of Romans. All of these were slain,

not merely to gratify hostile animosity, but in order to

prevent any one escaping with intelligence as to the

truth of the affair. Scipio, immediately after, attacked

the gates, which were neglected, as may be supposed,

during such confusion, and set fire to the nearest huts;

which soon communicating to the others, the whole

was enveloped in one general conflagration. Half-

burned men and cattle stopped up the passages, first

by the hurry of their flight, and afterwards with their

carcases. Those who had escaped the flames were cut

off by the sword, and the two camps were, by one fatal

blow, involved in utter ruin. However, the two com足

manders, with two thousand foot and five hundred

horse, half armed, and a great part wounded or scorched,

got away. There were destroyed by fire or sword forty

