398 LIVY.

appointed time; but neither Philip, nor any message

from him, came for several hours. At length, when

they began to despair of his coming, his ships sud­

denly appeared. He said that 'the terms enjoined

were so severe and humiliating that, not knowing what

to determine, he had spent the day in deliberation.'

But the general opinion was, that he had purposely

delayed the business, that the Achseans and jEtolians

might not have time to answer him: and this opinion

he- himself confirmed, by desiring, in order to avoid

altercation, and to bring the affair to some conclusion,

that the others should retire, and leave him to converse

with the Roman general: for some time, this was not

admitted, lest the allies should appear to be excluded

from the conference. Afterwards, on his persisting in

his desire, the Roman general, with the consent of all,

taking with him Appius Claudius, a military tribune,

advanced to the brink of the coast, and the rest retired.

The king, with the two persons whom he had brought

the day before, came on shore, where they conversed a

considerable time in private. What account of their

proceedings Philip gave to his people is not well

known: what Quintius told the allies was, that ' Philip

was willing to cede to the Romans the whole coast of

Illyricum, and to give up the deserters and prisoners,

if there were any. That he consented to restore to

Attalus his ships, and the seamen taken with them;

and to the Rhodians the tract which they call Peraea.

That be refused to evacuate Iassus and Bargylii. To

the jUtolians he was ready to restore Pharsalus and

Larissa; Thebes he would keep: and that he would

give back to the Achasans the possession, not only of

Argos, but of Corinth also.' This arrangement pleased

none of the parties; neither those to whom the conces­

sions were to be made, nor those to whom they were

refused; 'for on that plan,' they said, ' more would

be lost than gained; nor could the grounds of con­

tention ever be removed but by his utterly evacuating

every part of Greece.'

