356 LIVY.

fore retired from thence, and led back his troops into

winter quarters in Macedonia.

5. There, whilst others, glad of any interval of rest,

consigned both body and mind to repose, Philip, in

proportion as the season of the year had relieved him

from the incessant fatigues of marching and fighting,

found his care and anxiety increase the more, when he

turned his thoughts towards the general issue of the

war. He dreaded, not only his enemies, who pressed

him hard by land and sea, but also the dispositions,

sometimes of his allies, at others of his own subjects.

The former, he thought, might be induced, by hopes

of friendship with the Romans, to change sides, and

the Macedonians themselves be seized with a desire of

innovation. Wherefore, he despatched ambassadors

to the Achasans, both to require their oath, (for it had

been made an article of their agreement that they

should take an oath of fidelity to Philip every year,)

and at the same time to restore to them Orchomenes,

Heraa, and Triphylia. To the Megalopolitans he de­

livered up Aliphera; which city, they insisted, had

never belonged to Triphylia, but ought to be restored

to them, having been one of those that were incorpo­

rated by the council of the Arcadians for the founding

of Megalopolis. These measures had the desired effect

of strengthening his connexion with the Achaeans. The

affections of the Macedonians he conciliated by his

treatment of Heraclides: for finding that, from having

countenanced this man, he had incurred the general

displeasure of his subjects, he charged him with a

number of crimes, and threw him into chains, to the

great joy of the people. In his preparations for war,

he exerted the most vigorous efforts; exercised both

the Macedonian and mercenary troops in arms, and, in

the beginning of spring sent Athenagoras, with all the

foreign auxiliaries and light troops, through Epirus

into Chaonia, to seize the pass at Antigonia, which the

Greeks called Stena. He followed, in a few days, with

the heavy troops; and having viewed every situation

in the country, he judged that the most advantageous

