HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXVII. 33

new: nor did he blame men for this manner of think­

ing; provided only that the merits of the case, and not

the mere name, were made the grounds of this double

aversion.' He then enumerated his services to the

Carthaginian generals; and, on the other hand, their

avarice, tyranny, and ill-treatment of every kind heaped

on him and his countrymen. 'For these reasons,' he

said, ' his body only had, hitherto, been on their side;

his mind had long been on that side where, he be­

lieved, that respect was paid to laws divine and human.

To the gods themselves people have recourse with sup­

plications for redress, when they can no longer endure

the violence and injustice of men. He intreated Sci-

pio not to consider their conduct as deserving either

punishment or reward, but to form his judgment on a

trial of them from that day forward, and by that stan­

dard to estimate the recompense which they might

hereafter be thought to deserve.' The Roman an­

swered that he would comply with their desire in every

particular; and would not consider them in the light

of deserters, because they had not thought themselves

bound to adhere to such an alliance, when the other

party scrupled not to violate every obligation divine

and human. Then their wives and children, being

brought into the assembly, were restored to them, and

received with tears of joy. That day they were enter­

tained in lodgings prepared for them ; and, on the next,

the terms of association were ratified, and they were

dismissed to bring up their forces; afterwards they

encamped in conjunction with the Romans, until they

conducted them to the spot where the enemy lay.

18. The nearest army of the Carthaginians was that

commanded by Hasdrubal, which lay near the city of

Baecula. In the front of this camp he had posted ad­

vanced guards of cavalry. On these the Roman light

infantry, the front rank, and those who composed the

vanguard, instantly, as they arrived, and without wait­

ing to choose ground for a camp, made an attack, and

with such apparent contempt, as plainly demonstrated

what degree of spirit each party possessed. The ca-

LIV. VOL. V. C

