324 LIVY.

Campanian people, who were either cut off or driven

into banishment; the mutilated carcass of a city,

without senate, without commons, without magis­

trates; a sort of prodigy, the leaving which to be in­

habited in this manner showed more cruelty than if it

had been rased to the ground. If foreigners^ who are

separated from us to a greater distance by their lan­

guage, manners, and laws, than by the length of sea

and land, are allowed to get footing here, it is madness

to hope that any thing will continue in its present

state. Does your liberty appear to be in any degree

of danger from the government of Philip, who at a

time when he was justly incensed, demanded nothing

more of you than peace; and at present requires no

more than the observance of the peace which he

agreed to? Accustom foreign legions to these coun­

tries, and receive the yoke; too late and in vain will

you look for an alliance with Philip, when you will

have become a property of the Romans. Trifling

causes occasionally unite and disunite the JEtolians,

Acarnanians, and Macedonians, men speaking the

same language. With foreigners, with barbarians, all

Greeks have, and ever will have, eternal war; be­

cause they are enemies by nature, which is always the

same, and not from causes which change with the

times. I conclude my discourse with the same argu­

ment with which I began. Three years since, the

same persons, assembled in this same place, deter­

mined on peace with the same Philip, contrary to the

inclinations of the same Romans, who now wish that

the peace should be broken, after it has been ad­

justed and ratified. In the subject of your delibera­

tion fortune has made no change; why you should

make any, I do not see.'

30. Next, after the Macedonians, with the consent

iind at the desire of the Romans, the Athenians were

introduced; who, having suffered grievously, could

with the greater justice inveigh against the cruelty and

inhumanity of the king. They represented in a de­

plorable light the miserable devastation and ruin of

