HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXX. 281

out reflecting dishonor on the edile Lucullus. Publius

yElius Tubero and Lucius Lsetorius, plebeian ediles, on

some irregularity being discovered in their election,

abdicated their office, after they bad celebrated the

games, and, on occasion thereof, a feast to Jupiter;

having also erected in the capitol three images, formed

of silver raised by fines. The dictator and master of

the horse, in pursuance of a decree of the senate, cele­

brated the games of Ceres.

40. When the Roman deputies, together with the

Carthaginian ambassadors, were come to Rome from

Africa, the senate assembled in the temple of Bellona.

Lucius Veturius Philo acquainted them (to the great

joy of the fathers), that a battle had been fought with

Hannibal, in which the Carthaginians were finally

overpowered, and an end put at last to that disastrous

war; he added, as a small accession to that great

and happy event, that Vermina, son of Syphax, had

also been vanquished. He was then ordered to go out

to the general assembly, and to communicate the joy­

ful news to the people. On this, after mutual congra­

tulations, a public thanksgiving being ordered, all the

temples in the city were thrown open, and a supplica­

tion for three days decreed. The ambassadors of the

Carthaginians, and of king Philip, for they also had

arrived, requesting an audience of the senate, the dic­

tator answered, by order of the fathers, that the new

consuls would procure them an audience. The elec­

tions were then held. [A. U. C. 051. B. C. 201.] The

consuls elected were Cneius Cornelius Lentulns and

Publius jElius Pa?tus; the pretors, Marcus Junius

Pennns, to whom the city jurisdiction fell; Marcus

Valerius Falto acquired by lot Bruttium ; Marcus Fa-

bius Buteo, Sardinia; Publius jElius Tubero, Sicily.

With respect to the provinces of the consuls, it was

determined that nothing should be done until the am­

bassadors of king Philip and the Carthaginians were

heard; for it was plainly foreseen that the conclusion

of the one war would be quickly followed by the com­

mencement of another. The consul Cneius Lenlulus

