ys LIVY.

Laving gone from Demetrias to Scotussa, and setting

out thence at the third watch, dislodged the guard,

routed the ^Etolians who kept possession of the pass

of Thermopylae, and drove the dismayed enemy to

Heraclea, accomplishing in one day a march of above

sixty miles to Elatia in Phocis. About the same time

the city of Opus was taken and plundered by Attalus.

Sulpicius had given it up to the king, because Oreum

had been sacked a few days before by the Roman sol­

diers, and his men had received no share. After the

Roman fleet had retired to Oreum, Attalus, not ap­

prised of Philip's approach, wasted time in levying

contributions from the principal inhabitants; and so

unexpected was his coming, that, had not some Cre­

tans, who happened to go in quest of forage farther

from the town than usual, espied the enemy, he might

have been surprised. Without arms, and in the ut­

most confusion, he fled precipitately to his ships. Just

as they were putting off from the land, Philip came

up, and though he did not advance from the shore, yet

his arrival caused a good deal of confusion among the

mariners. From thence he returned to Opus, inveigh­

ing against gods and men for his disappointment in

having the opportunity of striking so important a blow

thus snatched from him, and when almost within reach

of his arm. The Opuntians, also, he rebuked in angry

terms, because, although they might have prolonged

the siege until he arrived, yet they had immediately,

on sight of the enemy, made almost a voluntary sur­

render. Having put affairs at Opus in order, he pro­

ceeded thence to Thronium. On the other side, At­

talus at first retired to Oreum, but having heard there

that Prnsias, king of Bithynia, had invaded his king­

dom, he laid aside all attention to the affairs of

the Romans and the jEtolian war, and passed over

into Asia. Sulpicius, too, withdrew his fleet to Mgi-

na, from whence he had set out in the beginning of

spring. Philip found as little difficulty in possessing

himself of Thronium, as Attalus had met at Opus.

This city was inhabited by foreigners, natives of

