HISTORY OF ROME.— BOOK XXX. 265

against the Roman people, and have so often been on

the point of making a conquest of them, should volun­

tarily come to sue for peace, I am glad that it is to

you, rather than to any other person, that I am to ap­

ply. On your part, too, among the many illustrious

events of your life, it ought not to be reckoned the

least glorious, that Hannibal, to whom the gods granted

victory over so many Roman generals, has yielded to

you; and that you put an end to this war, which was

first rendered remarkable by the calamities of your

country, before it was so by those of ours. Here also

we may observe the sport of fortune in (he disposal of

events, that, in the consulate of your father, I took up

arms. He was the first Roman general with whom I

engaged in battle, and to his son I now come unarmed

to solicit peace. It were indeed above all things to be

wished that the gods had so disposed the minds of our

fathers, that your countrymen had been contented with

the dominion of Italy, and ours with that of Africa;

for, even on your side, Sicily and Sardinia are not an

adequate compensation for the loss of so many fleets, so

many armies, so many excellent generals. But what

is past, however it may be blamed, cannot be retrieved.

Our attempts on the possessions of others have ended

in our being necessitated to fight in defence of our

own. Thus we not only brought war home to you in

Italy, but to ourselves in Africa. You beheld the arms

and ensigns of an enemy almost within your gates and

on your walls; and we now, from the ramparts of Car­

thage, hear the din of a Roman camp. The event, there­

fore, for which we ought most earnestly to pray, and

you to wish, above all things, now comes in view: you

are negotiating a peace in the midst of a successful

career. We who negotiate are the persons most in­

terested in its establishment, and whose stipulations,

whatever they may be, will certainly be ratified by our

respective states. We want nothing but a disposition

not averse from pacific counsels. For my part, so much

instruction have 1 received from age, returning now an

old man to my country, which I left a boy, and also

