36 LIVY.

session of the roads both on the right and left; add to

this that their commander and principal officers, in en­

deavoring to make their escape, filled up the gate of

the camp, while the disorderly rout of the frightened

elephants were as terrible to them as were the enemy.

There were slain, therefore, not less than eight thou­

sand men.

19. Hasdrubal had, before the battle, hastily sent

off* his treasure; and now, forwarding the elephants,

he collected the flying troops, directing his course

along the river Tagus towards the Pyrenees. Scipio

took possession of the Carthaginian camp; and having

bestowed on the soldiers all the booty, except the per­

sons of free condition, he found, on taking an account

of the prisoners, ten thousand foot and two thousand

horse. Of these he sent home all the Spaniards with­

out ransom, the Africans he ordered the qnestor to

sell. On this the multitude of Spaniards who stood

around, both those who had formerly surrendered,

and those taken the day before, unanimously saluted

him by the title of king. But Scipio, ordering the

crier to command silence, told them, that 'to him the

highest title was that of general, which his soldiers

had conferred on him: that the title of king, in other

places highly respected, was at Rome deemed odious.

They might, indeed, within their own breasts, judge of

him as possessing the spirit of a king, if they deemed

that the most honorable perfection in a human mind,

but they must refrain from the application of the name.'

Even these barbarians were sensibly affected by the

greatness of his mind, that could look down contemp­

tuously on a title which, from the rest of mankind, at­

tracts wonder and admiration. He then distributed

presents among the petty princes and chieftains of the

Spaniards, desiring Indibilis to choose, out of the

great number of horses taken, three hundred, such as

he liked. While the questor, in pursuance of the ge­

neral's order, was selling off the Africans, he observed

among them a boy of extraordinary beauty; and, hear­

ing that he was of royal blood, he sent him to Scipio.

