HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXXI. 307

was judged more suitable to his dignity to explain his

sentiments in writing than, being present, to be forced

to blush, either at the recital of his extraordinary fa­

vors to the state, or at the immoderate applause of the

multitude, which would overwhelm his modesty with

acclamations and other signs of approbation. In the

letter which he sent, and which was read to the assem­

bly, was contained, first, a recapitulation of the seve­

ral acts of kindness which he had shown to the Athe­

nian state, as his ally; then, of the actions which he

had performed against Philip; and lastly, an exhorta­

tion to 'enter immediately on the war, while they had

him, (Attalus,) the Rhodians, and the Romans also, to

assist them:' not omitting to warn them, that 'if they

were backward now, they would hereafter wish in vain

for the opportunity which they neglected.' They then

gave audience to the ambassadors of the Rhodians, to

whom they were under a recent obligation for having

retaken and sent home four of their ships of War,

which had been lately seized by the Macedonians.

War was determined on against Philip with universal

consent. Unbounded honors were conferred on king

Attalus, and then on the Rhodians. At that time men­

tion was made of adding a tribe, which they were to

call Attalis, to the ten ancient tribes; the Rhodian

state was presented with a golden crown, as an ac-

knowlegement of its bravery, and the inhabitants with

the freedom of Athens, in like manner as Rhodes had

formerly honored that people. After this, king Atta­

lus returned to jEgina, where his fleet lay. From

jEgina the Rhodians sailed to Cia, and thence to

Rhodes, steering their course among the islands, all

of which they brought to join in the alliance, except

Andros, Paros, and Cythnus, which were held by Ma­

cedonian garrisons. Attalus, having sent messengers

to jEtolia, and expecting ambassadors from thence,

was detained at jEgina for some time in a state of in­

action; failing also in his endeavors to excite the

jEtolians to arms, for they were rejoiced at having

made peace with Macedon on any terms. Had Attains

