300 LIVY.

intermixed with other money; and that, unless this

were done, the vow could not be fulfilled.' Although

the objection, and the person who proposed it, were

both of weight, yet the consul was ordered to consult

the college of pontiffs, whether a vow could not be un­

dertaken without specifying the amount to discharge

it? The pontiffs determined that it could; and that it

would be even more in order to do it in that way.

The consul, therefore, repeating after the chief pontiff,

made the vow in the same words in which those made

for five years of safety used to be expressed; only that

he engaged to perform the games, and make the offer­

ings, at such expense as the senate should direct by

their vote, at the time when the vow was to be put in

act. Before this the great games, so often vowed,

were constantly rated at a certain expense: this was

the first time that the sum was not specified.

10. While every one's attention was turned to the

Macedonian war, and at a time when people appre­

hended nothing less, a sudden account was brought of

an inroad made by the Gauls. The Insubrians, Caeno-

manians, and Boians, having been joined by the Saly-

ans, Ilvatians, and other Ligurian states, and putting

themselves under the command of Hamilcar, a Cartha­

ginian, who, having been in the army of Hasdrubal,

had remained in those parts, had fallen on Placentia;

and, after plundering the city, and in their rage burn­

ing a great part of it, leaving scarcely two thousand

men among the flames and ruins, passed the Po, and

advanced to plunder Cremona. The news of the cala­

mity, which had fallen on a city in their neighborhood,

having reached thither, the inhabitants had time to

shut their gates, and place guards on the walls, that

they might at least try the event of a siege, and send

messengers to the Roman pretor. Lucius Furius Pur-

pureo, who had then the command of the province,

Lad, in pursuance of the decree of the senate, dis­

banded the army, excepting five thousand of the allies

and Latine confederates, and had halted with these

troops in the nearest district of the province about

