360 LIVY.

8. The new consuls, Sextus JElius Pastus and Titus

Quintius Flamininus, on assuming the administration,

[A. U. C. 554. B. C. 198] convened the senate in the

capitol, and the fathers decreed, that 'the consuls

should settle between themselves, or cast lots, for the

provinces Macedonia and Italy. That he to whom

Macedonia fell should enlist, as a supplement to the

legions, three thousand Roman footmen, and three

hundred horse; and also five thousand footmen, and

five hundred horsemen, of the Latine confederates.'

The army assigned to the other consul was to consist

intirely of new-raised men. Lucius Lentulus, consul

of the preceding year, was continued in command, and

was ordered not to depart from the province, nor to

remove the old army, until the consul should arrive

with the new legions. The consuls cast lots for the

provinces, and Italy fell to JElim, Macedonia to Quin足

tius. Of the pretors, the lots gave to Lucius Cornelius

Merula the city jurisdiction; to Marcus Claudius, Si足

cily; to Marcus Poroius, Sardinia; and to Caius Hel-

vius, Gaul. The levying of troops was then begun;

for besides the consular armies, they had been ordered

also to enlist men for the pretors: for Marcellus, in

Sicily, four thousand foot and three hundred horse of

the Latine confederates; for Cato, in Sardinia, three

thousand foot and two hundred horse of the same

country; with directions that both these pretors, on

their arrival in their provinces, should disband the ve足

terans, both foot and horse. The consuls then intro足

duced to the senate ambassadors from king Attalus.

These, after representing that their king gave every

assistance to the Roman arms on land and sea, with

his fleet and all his forces, and had hitherto executed

with zeal and alacrity every order of the consuls,

added, that 'they feared it would not be in his power

to continue so to do, as he was much embarrassed by

Antiochus, who had invaded his kingdom when the sea

and land forces, which might have defended it, were

removed to a distance. That Attalus therefore in-

treated the conscript fathers, if they chose to employ

