HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXVII. 57

voke the jEtolians, who were ever well inclined to

embrace an opportunity of sallying out from their

works. They did not know that Sulpicius, with fifteen

ships, had come over from Naupactus to Cyllene. and

landing four thousand soldiers, had, in the dead of

night, lest his march should be observed, thrown him­

self into Elis. When therefore they perceived, among

the yEtolians and Eleans, the Roman standards and

arms, an appearance so unexpected filled them with

the greatest terror. At first the king had a mind to

order a retreat, but the jEtolians being already en­

gaged with the Trallians, a tribe of Illyrians so called,

and his party appearing to have the worst of the con­

test, he himself, at the head of his cavalry, made a

charge on a Roman cohort. Here the horse of Philip,

being pierced through with a spear, threw him forward

over his head to the ground, which gave rise to a fu­

rious conflict between the contending parties; the Ro­

mans pressing hard on the king, and his own men pro­

tecting him. His own behavior on the occasion was

remarkably brave, although he was obliged to fight on

foot, among squadrons of cavalry. In a short time,

the dispute becoming unequal, great numbers being

killed and wounded near him, he was forced away by

his soldiers, and, mounting another horse, fled from the

field. He pitched his camp that day at the distance of

five miles from the city of Elis; and, on the next, led

all his forces to a fort called Pyrgus, where, as he had

heard, a multitude of the country people with their

cattle had run together through fear of being plun­

dered. This irregular and unarmed crowd were so

utterly dismayed at his approach, that he at once made

himself master of the whole, and by this seizure gained

compensation for whatever disgrace he had sustained

at Elis. While he was distributing the spoil and pri­

soners, the latter amounting to four thousand men,

and the cattle of all kinds to twenty thousand, news

arrived from Macedonia that a person called Eropus

had, by bribing the commander of the garrison and

citadel, gained possession of Lychnidus; that he had

