22 ; LIVY.

he could retreat for safety, he would not have even a

pretence for staying longer in Italy. He likewise sent

an express to Rhegium, to the commander of the body

of troops, which the consul Laevinus had placed there,

to act against the Bruttians, and which consisted of

eight thousand men, all accustomed to live by plunder,

the greater part of whom had been brought out of

Sicily from Agathyrna, as was mentioned above. To

these were joined many natives of the country, who

deserted from the Bruttians, equally daring, and under

equal necessity to dare every thing. He ordered this

band to be led, first, to ravage the lands of Bruttium,

and afterwards to besiege the city of Caulon. These

orders they executed, not only with diligence but with

avidity; and after plundering the country, and dis­

persing the inhabitants, attacked the city with their

utmost vigor. Marcellus, incited by his colleague's

letter, and also by an opinion which he had himself

conceived, that he was the only Roman general able to

cope with Hannibal, quitted his winter-quarters as

soon as forage could be found, and met him at Canu-

sium. The Carthaginian was at this time employed in

endeavoring to entice the Canusians to a revolt, but on

hearing of Marcellus' approach, he decamped and re­

tired. The country was open, affording no cover for

an ambuscade, for which reason he resolved to draw

back into more woody tracts. Marcellus pressed close

on his steps, encamped within view of him, and, as

soon as the trenches were finished, drew out his legions

and offered battle. Hannibal sent out single troops of

cavalry, and the light spearmen from his infantry, to

skirmish with the enemy, but did not think it advisable

to risk the issue of a general engagement. He was

however drawn into a contest of that sort which he

wished to avoid: for although, by marching away in

the night, he gained some ground of the enemy, yet

Marcellus overtook him in an open country, and, as

he was forming his camp, put a stop to his works, by

attacking the workmen on all sides. In consequence

of this a pitched battle ensued, in which all the forces

