376 livy.

in their full force. At length Aristssnus, the pretor of

the Achaeans, not to dismiss the council without any

business being introduced, said: 'Acheeans, where are

now those violent disputes, in which, at your feasts

and meetings, whenever mention was made of Philip

and the Romans, you scarcely refrained from blows?

Now, in a general assembly, summoned on that single

business, when you have heard the arguments of the

ambassadors on both sides, when the magistrates de­

mand your opinions, when the herald calls you to de­

clare your sentiments, you are struck dumb. Although

your concern for the common safety be insufficient for

determining the matter, cannot the party zeal which

has attached you to one side or the other extort a word

from any one of you? especially when none is so blind

as not to perceive that the time for declaring and re­

commending what each either wishes or thinks most

advisable, must be at the present moment; that is, be­

fore we make any decree. When a decree shall be

once passed, every man, even such as at first may have

disapproved the measure, must then support it as good

and salutary.' These persuasions of the pretor, so far

from prevailing on any one person to declare his opi­

nion, did not excite in all that numerous assembly, col­

lected out of so many states, so much as a.murmur or

a whisper.

21. Then the pretor, Aristaenus, proceeded thus:—

'Chiefs of Achaea, you are not more at a loss what ad­

vice to give than you are for words to deliver it in; but

every one is unwilling to promote the interest of the

public at the risk of danger to himself. Were I in a

private character, perhaps I too should be silent; but,

as pretor, it is my duty to declare that I see evidently,

either that the ambassadors ought to have been refused

an audience of the council, or that they ought not to be

dismissed from it without an answer. Yet how can I

give them an answer, unless by a decree of yours?

And, since not one of you who have been called to this

assembly either chooses or dares to make known his

sentiments, let us examine (as if they were opinions

