HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXXI. 347

and, arriving unexpectedly, made himself master of

Larissa, except the citadel,—not that celebrated city

in Thessaly, but another, which they call Cremaste.

Attalus also surprised jEgeleos, where nothing was

less apprehended than such an enterprise during the

siege of another city. The works at Oreus had now

begun to take effect, while the garrison within were

almost spent with unremitted toil (keeping watch both

by day and night), and also with wounds. Part of the

wall being loosened by the strokes of the ram, had

fallen down in many places; and the Romans, during

the night, broke into the citadel through the breach

which lay over the harbor. Attalus, likewise, at the

first light, on a signal given from the citadel by the

Romans, assaulted the city on his side, where great

part of the walls had been levelled; on which the gar­

rison and townsmen fled into the other citadel, and

even that they surrendered in two days after. The

city fell to the king, the prisoners to the Romans.

47. The autumnal equinox now approached, and the

Euboean. gulf, called Coela, is reckoned dangerous by

mariners. Choosing therefore to remove thence before

the winter storms came on, they returned to Piraeus,

from whence they had set out for the campaign. Apus-

tius, leaving there thirty ships, sailed by Malea to

Corcyra. The king was delayed during the celebration

of the mysteries of Ceres, immediately after which he

also retired into Asia, sending home Agesimbrotus and

the Rbodians. Such, during that summer, were the

proceedings by sea and land of the Roman consul and

lieutenant-general, aided by Attalns and the Rhodians,

against Philip and his allies. The other consul, Caius

Aurelius, on coming into his province, and finding the

war there already brought to a conclusion, did not dis­

semble his resentment against the pretor for having

proceeded to action in his absence; wherefore, sending

him away to Etruria, he led on the legions into the

enemy's country, where their operations, having no

other object than booty, produced more of it than

glory. Lucius Furius, finding nothing in Etruria that

