HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXXII. 399

36. These expressions, delivered with eagerness and

vehemence by every one in the assembly, reached the

ears of Philip, though he stood at a distance. He

therefore requested of Quintius that the whole business

might be deferred until the next day; and then he would,

positively, either prevail on the allies to accede to his

proposals, or suffer himself to be prevailed on to accede

to theirs. The shore at Thronium was appointed for

their meeting, and all the parties assembled there early.

Philip began with intreating Quintius, and all who were

present, not to harbor such sentiments as must tend to

obstruct a pacification ; and then desired time while he

could send ambassadors to Rome, to the senate, de­

claring that ' he would either obtain a peace on the

terms mentioned, or would accept whatever terms the

senate should prescribe.' None approved of this: they

said, he only sought a delay, and leisure to collect his

strength. But Quintius observed, ' that such an ob­

jection would have been well founded, if it were then

summer and a season fit for action: as matters stood,

and the winter being just at hand, nothing would be

lost by allowing him time to send ambassadors: for,

without the authority of the senate, no agreement which

they might conclude with the king would be valid;

and besides, they would by this means have an oppor­

tunity, while the winter itself would necessarily cause

a suspension of arms, to learn what terms were likely

to be approved by the senate.' The other chiefs of the

allies came over to this opinion; and a cessation of

hostilities for two months being granted, they resolved

that each of their states should send an ambassador

with the necessary information to the senate, and in

order that it should not be deceived by the misrepre­

sentations of Philip. To the above contention was

added an article, that all the king's troops should be

immediately withdrawn from Phocis and Locris. With

the ambassadors of the allies Quintius sent Amynander,

king of Athamania; and, to add a degree of splendor

to the embassy, a deputation from himself, composed

