HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXXII. 369

to use them as guides into Thessaly. With the same

purpose, many volunteers of the Epirots also were ad­

mitted into the corps of auxiliaries.

15. Of the cities of Thessaly, the first which he at­

tacked was Phaleria. The garrison here consisted of

two thousand Macedonians, who made at first a most

vigorous resistance, availing themselves, to the utmost,

of every advantage that their arms and works could

afford. The assault was carried on without intermis­

sion or relaxation, either by day or by night, because

the consul thought that it would have a powerful

effect on the spirits of the rest of the Thessalians, if

the first who made trial of the Roman strength were

unable to withstand it; and this at the same time sub­

dued the obstinacy of the Macedonians. On the re­

duction of Phaleria, deputies came from Metropolis

and Piera, surrendering those cities. To them, on their

petition, pardon was granted: Phaleria was sacked,

and burned. He then proceeded to yEginium; but

finding this place so circumstanced that, even with a

moderate garrison, it was safe, after discharging a few

weapons against the nearest advanced guard, he di­

rected his march towards the territory of Gomphi;

and thence, into the plains of Thessaly. His army

was now in want of every thing, because he had spared

the lands of the Epirots; he therefore despatched mes­

sengers to learn whether the transports had reached

Leucas and the Ambracian bay; sending the cohorts,

in turn, to Ambracia for corn. Now the road from

Gomphi to Ambracia, although difficult and embar­

rassed, is very short: so that in a few days provisions

were brought up from the sea in abundance. He then

marched to Atrax, which is about ten miles from La-

rissa, on the river Peneus. The inhabitants came ori­

ginally from Perrhasbia. The Thessalians here were

not in the least alarmed at the first coming of the Ro­

mans; and Philip, although be durst not himself ad­

vance into Thessaly, yet, keeping bis station in the

vale of Tempe, whenever any place was attempted by

liv. vol. v. 2 a

