78 livy.

another. It was judged best that they should join hitri

secretly in the night.

46. Orders were previously given by the consul Li-

vius, that, on their arrival, each tribune should be

accommodated with a lodging by a tribune, each cen­

turion by a centurion, each horseman by a horseman,

and each footman by a footman. He considered that

it would not be prudent to enlarge the camp, lest the

enemy might discover the coming of the second cou-

sul; while the crowding together of additional num­

bers, into lodgings in a narrow space, would be at­

tended with the less inconvenience, as the troops of

Claudius had brought with them hardly any thing ex­

cept their arms. Claudius had augmented his army

with a number of volunteers; for many, both veteran

soldiers discharged from service, and young men, of­

fered themselves on his march; and, as they eagerly

pressed to be employed, he enlisted such of them as,

from their personal appearance, seemed fit for the

service. The camp of Livius was near Sena, and

Hasdrubal lay about five hundred paces beyond it.

Wherefore Nero, to avoid entering it before night,

halted when he came nigh, and where he was con­

cealed behind mountains. As darkness came on, his

men, marching silently, were conducted into tents,

each by a person of his own rank; where they were

hospitably entertained, amid mutual congratulations

and unbounded joy. Next day a council was held, at

which was also present the pretor Lucius Porcius Li-

cinus. At this time his camp was joined to that of the

consuls. It should however be noticed, that before

their coming he had often baffled and perplexed the

enemy, leading his troops along the high ground;

sometimes seizing narrow defiles to arrest his march,

sometimes harassing him by attacks on his rear or

flanks, and putting in practice, indeed, every art of

war. He now assisted at the council. Many were of

opinion that an engagement should be deferred until

Nero might refresh his men, who were fatigued by

their long march, and want of sleep; and also, that he

