HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXVIII. 161

you received from Spain. These hopes are suggested

to me by the fortune of the Roman people, the gods

who witnessed the treaty which the enemy have vio­

lated, and the friendship of the kings, Syphax and

Masinissa, to whom I shall look for aid while securing

myself against perfidy. The war will disclose many

things which do not appear now; and it is the business

of a general not to fail of improving the overtures of

fortune, and to convert casual occurrences to the ac­

complishment of his designs. I shall, Quintus Fabius,

have the antagonist whom you assign me, Hannibal:

I shall compel him to fight in his own country, and

Carthage rather shall be the prize than the half-ruined

forts of the Bruttians. With respect to the security

of the state, and that it should suffer no injury while

I am on my passage; while I am landing my army in

Africa; while I am marching forwards to Carthage;

be careful in any assertion as to what you, Quintus

Fabius, were able to accomplish, at a time when Han­

nibal was pursuing a rapid career of victory through

all parts of Italy; be mindful, I say, lest it be consi­

dered as an insult, that you do not too freely affirm of

him, that, shaken and almost broken in pieces, his

overthrow by Publius Licinius the consul were easy,—

a man, by the way, of the most consummate valor, and

who declined the lot of so distant a province as Africa,

only because, being chief pontiff, he must not be ab­

sent from his religious duties. In fact, even though

the war were not to be brought to a speedier conclu­

sion by the method which I propose, still it would

concern the dignity of the Roman people, and their

reputation among foreign kings and nations, that we

should appear to have spirit, not only to defend Italy,

but to carry our arms into Africa; and that it should

not be spread abroad, and believed, that no Roman

general dared what Hannibal had dared; and that, in

the former Punic war, when the contest was about

Sicily, Africa had been often attacked by our fleets

and armies; but that now, when the contest is about

Italy, Africa should enjoy peace. Let Italy, so long

Liv. vol. v. I.

