33G LIVY.

rounded on all sides, there was reason to think that

the Roman might put an end to the war without stirring

from his seat. Philip, however, considered, that after

his cavalry had been defeated in two engagements, he

could with much less safety continue in the same post;

accordingly, wishing to remove from thence, and at

the same time to keep the enemy in ignorance of his

design, he sent a herald to the consul a little before

sunset, to demand a truce for the purpose of burying

the horsemen; and thus imposing on him, he began

his march in silence, about the second watch, leaving

a number of fires in all parts of his camp.

39. The consul had already retired to take refresh­

ment, when he was told that the herald had arrived,

and on what business: he gave him no other answer

than that he should be admitted to an audience early

the next morning: by which means Philip gained what

he wanted, the length of that night and part of the fol­

lowing day, during which he might march his troops

beyond the enemy's reach. He directed his route

towards the mountains, a road which he knew the Ro­

mans, with their heavy baggage, would not attempt.

The consul, having at the first light dismissed the he­

rald, with a grant of a truce, in a short time after dis­

covered that the enemy had gone off; but not knowing

what course to take in pursuit of them, he remained in

the same camp for several days, which he employed in

collecting forage. He then marched to Stubera, and

brought thither, from Pelagonia, the corn that was in

the fields. From thence he advanced to Pellina, not

having yet discovered to what quarter the Macedonian

had bent his course. Philip having at first fixed his

camp at Bryanium, marched thence through cross­

roads, and gave a sudden alarm to the enemy. The

Romans, on this, removed from Pellina, and pitched

their camp near the river Osphagus. The king also

sat down at a small distance, forming his intrenchment

on the bank of the river Erigonus. Having there re­

ceived certain information that the Romans intended

to proceed to Eordaea, he marched away before them.

