HISTORY OF ROME.- 387 .—BOOK XXXII.

selves masters of the city in the sudden confusion;

and then to seize on Norba and Circeii. Information

of this atrocious plot was brought to Rome, to Lucius

Cornelius Merula, the city pretor. Two slaves came

to him before day, and disclosed the whole proceedings

and intentions of the conspirators. The pretor, order­

ing them to be guarded in his own house, summoned a

meeting of the senate; and having laid before them

the information of the discoverers, he was ordered to

go himself to the spot, and examine into, and crush

the conspiracy. Setting out, accordingly, with five

lieutenants-general, he compelled such as he found in

the country to take the military oath, to arm., and

follow him. Having by this tumultuary kind of levy

armed about two thousand men, before it was possible

to guess his destination he came to Setia. There the

leaders of the conspiracy were instantly apprehended;

on which, the remainder fled from the city; but parties

were sent through the country to search them out.

The services of the two who made the discovery, and

of one free person employed, were highly meritorious.

The senate ordered a present to the latter of a hundred

thousand asses:i to the slaves, twenty-five thousand

asses3 each, and their freedom. The price was paid

to the.ir owners out of the treasury. Not long after,

intelligence was received, that others, out of the re­

maining spirit of the conspiracy, had formed a design

of seizing Prameste. The pretor, Lucius Cornelius,

went thither, and inflicted punishment on near five

hundred persons concerned in that wicked scheme.

The public were under apprehensions that the Car­

thaginian hostages and prisoners fomented these plots:

watches were, therefore, kept at Rome in all the

streets, which the inferior magistrates were ordered to

go round and inspect; while the triumvirs of the pri­

son, called the Quarry, were to keep a stricter guard

than usual. Circular letters were also sent by the

pretor to all the Latine states, directing that the hos-

1 322/. 18s. id. * 80/. 14s. Td.

