184 LIVY.

The curule ediles were Cneius and Lucius Cornelius

Lentulus. Lucius held the province of Spain, and

being elected while there, continued absent during the

whole time of his office. Tiberius Claudius Asellus

and Marcus Junius Pennua were plebeian ediles. In

that year Marcus Marcellus dedicated the temple of

Virtue, at the Capuan gate, seventeen years after it

had been vowed by his father at Clastidium in Gaul,

during his first consulate. Marcus jEmilius Regillus,

flamen of Mars, died that year.

12. During the two last years the affairs of Greece

had been neglected; a circumstance which enabled

Philip to reduce the jEtolians, thus forsaken by the

Romans, on whose aid alone they relied. They were

therefore obliged to sue for, and agree to a peace

on such terms as the king should impose: but had

he not used every effort to hasten the conclusion

of it, Publius Sempronius, proconsul, who succeeded

Sulpicius in the command, would have fallen on him

(while engaged in settling the treaty) with ten thou­

sand foot, one thousand horse, and thirty-five ships of

war; no small force in support of an ally. The peace

was scarcely concluded, when news was brought to

Philip that the Romans had come to Dyrrachium;

that the Parthinians, and other neighboring nations,

seeing a prospect of changing their situation, were in

motion, and that Dimallum was besieged. The Ro­

mans had turned their operations to that side, instead

of going forward to the assistance of the jEtolians,

whither they had been sent, provoked at the peace thus

made with the king without their concurrence, and

contrary to the treaty. On the receipt of this news,

Philip, fearing lest some greater commotions might

arise among the neighboring nations and states, pro­

ceeded by long marches to Apollonia, to which place

Sempronius had retired, after sending his lieutenant-

general. Laetonus, with part of the forces and fifteen

ships, to jEtolia, that he might take a view of the

situation of affairs, and, if possible, annihilate the

compact of that people with the Macedonian. Philip

