328 livy.

nature, if possible, than his cruelty, you, as being

nearer to Macedonia, are better acquainted with. As

to what concerns you, jEtolians, we entered into a war

with Philip on your account: you made peace with

him without consulting us. Perhaps you will say, that

while we were occupied in the Punic war, you were

constrained by fear to accept terms of pacification

from him who possessed superior power; and that on

our side, pressed by more urgent affairs, we suspended

our operations in a war which you had laid aside. At

present, as we, having, by the favor of the gods,

brought the Punic war to a conclusion, have fallen on

Macedonia with the whole weight of our power, so

you have an opportunity offered you of regaining a

place in our friendship and alliance, unless you choose

to perish with Philip, rather than to conquer with the

Romans.'

32. After this discourse of the ambassador, the in­

clinations of all leaning towards the Romans, Damo-

critus, pretor of the jEtolians, (who, it was reported,

had received money from the king,) without seeming

to favor either party, said, that 'in consultations

wherein the public safety was deeply interested, no­

thing was so injurious as haste. That repentance, in­

deed, generally followed, and that quickly, but yet too

late and unavailing; because designs carried on with

precipitation could not be recalled, nor matters brought

back to their original state. The time however for

determining the point under consideration, which, for

his part, he thought should not be too early, might yet

immediately be fixed in this manner. As it had been

provided by the laws, that no determination should be

made concerning peace or war, except in the Panae-

tolic or Pylaic councils; let them immediately pass a

decree, that the pretor, when he chooses to treat of

either, may have full authority to summon a council;

and that whatever shall be then debated and decreed,

shall be, to all intents and purposes, legal and valid,

as if it had been transacted in the Panaetolic or Pylaic

assembly.' And thus dismissing the ambassadors,

