HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXVII. 31

have lost Tarentum through the same arts by which

we acquired it.' That he might not, however, seem to

have turned back as in flight, he encamped on the spot

where he had halted, about five miles from the city;

and, after staying there a few days, retreated to Me-

tapontum. Prom hence he sent to Tarentum two Me-

tapontines, with letters from the principal men in that

state to Fabius, to receive his promise of impunity for

what was past, on condition of their delivering Meta-

pontum and the Carthaginian garrison into his hands.

Fabius, supposing the offer to be made with sincerity,

appointed a day on which he would come to Metapon-

tum, and gave letters in answer, which were delivered

to Hannibal, who, overjoyed at the success of his stra­

tagem, and at finding that even Fabius was not proof

against artifice, formed an ambuscade at a small dis­

tance from Metapontum. As Fabius was taking the

auspices, previous to his departure from Tarentum,

the birds repeatedly refused the favorable signs; also,

when he consulted the gods by sacrifice, the aruspex

warned him to beware of treachery and plots. As he

did not come on the appointed day, the two Metapon-

tines were sent back, to remove any scruple that re­

tarded him, but being suddenly seized, and dreading

an examination by torture, they disclosed the whole

plot.

17. In Spain, in the beginning of the summer, there

came over to Scipio, who had spent all the preceding

winter in conciliating the affections of the barbarians,

partly by presents, and partly by sending home their

hostages and prisoners, a person named Edesco, a dis­

tinguished commander among the Spaniards. This

man's wife and children were in the hands of the Ro­

mans; but, besides this motive, he was also actuated

by that almost unaccountable propensity which had

brought over all Spain from the Carthaginian interest

to that of the Romans. Led by the same motive, In-

dibilis and Mandonius, unquestionably the two first

men in Spain, with the whole body of their country­

men, deserted Hasdrubal, and withdrew to an emi-

