280 LIVY.

had begun to advance towards the Colline gate, was

recalled, and conducted to the circus, on its being

known that the water had retired from thence. Its

own proper place being thus restored to this solemn

exhibition gave much joy to the people, and added

considerably to the splendor of the games.

39. The consul Claudius, having at last set out from

the city, was overtaken by a violent storm between

the ports of Cosa and Laureta, and brought into immi­

nent danger; however, having got as far as Populonii,

where he continued until a change of weather, he pro­

ceeded to the island Ilva; from Ilva to Corsica, and

from thence to Sardinia. There, as he was sailing by

the Mad Mountains, a still more furious tempest sur­

prised him, and dispersed his fleet. Many ships were

damaged, and lost their rigging, and several were

wrecked. In this harassed and shattered condition the

fleet arrived at Carales, where the winter came on

them, while they were employed in docking and re­

pairing the ships. Meanwhile the year coming to a

conclusion, and it not being proposed to continue him

in command, Tiberius Claudius, after he had ceased

to hold any public office, brought home the fleet.

Marcus Servilius, having nominated Caius Servilius

Geminus dictator, lest he might be recalled on account

of the elections, set out for his province. The dictator

named Publius jElius Paetus master of the horse.

The elections, though many days were appointed for

the purpose, were still prevented by storms; so that

the magistrates of the former year going out of office,

on the day preceding the ides of March, and no suc­

cessors being appointed, the state was without curule

magistrates. Lucius Manlius Torquatus, a pontiff,

died that year; in his place was substituted Caius

Sulpicius Gallia. The Roman games were thrice re­

peated intire by the curule ediles, Lucius Licinius Lu-

cullus and Quintus Fulvius. Some of the inferior

officers belonging to the ediles, being convicted, on the

testimony of a discoverer, of having secretly conveyed

money out of the treasury, were condemned, not with-

