186 LIVY.

truce being made for two months to allow time for

ambassadors to be sent to Rome, in order that the

people might ratify the whole. Every one of the

tribes assented to it, because, having turned their

efforts against Africa, they wished to be eased for the

present from every other enemy. When all was settled,

Publius Sempronius went home to Rome to attend to

the duties of his consulship.

13. In the consulate of Marcus Cornelius and Pub­

lius Sempronius, which was the fifteenth year of the

Punic war, [A. U. C. 548. B. C. 204] the provinces

were thus decreed :—to Cornelius, Etruria, with the

old army; to Sempronius, Bruttium, with power to

levy new legions. Of the pretors, to Marcus Marcius

fell the city jurisdiction; to Lucius Scribonius Libo,

the foreign, and to the same person, Gaul; to Marcus

Pomponius Matho, Sicily; and to Tiberius Claudius

Nero, Sardinia. Publius Scipio's command was pro­

longed for a year, with the same army and the same

fleet he then had: as was also that of Publius Licinius,

who was ordered to hold Bruttium, with two legions,

as long as the consul should judge it to be for the in­

terest of the state that he should continue in that pro­

vince. Marcus Livius, and Spurius Lucretius, also held

on their commissions, with the two legions with which

they had protected Gaul against Mago; and likewise

Cneius Octavius, who, after delivering up Sardinia

and the legion to Tiberius Claudius, was, with forty

ships of war, to defend the sea-coast, within such

limits as the senate should appoint. To Marcus Pom­

ponius, pretor in Sicily, two legions of the forces that

had been at Canua; were decreed; and it was ordered,

that, of the propretors, (Titus Quintius and Caius Hos-

tilius Tubulus,) the former should hold Tarentum, the

latter Capua, as in the former year, each with the old

garrison. With respect to Spain, it was referred to

the people to determine on the two proconsuls who

should be sent thither; when all the tribes agreed in

ordering Lucius Cornelius Lentulus and Lucius Man-

lius Acidinus, in quality of proconsuls, to hold the

