HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXIX. 193

recover Locri from the Carthaginians, and was left

with those troops to garrison the town. In this your

officer, conscript fathers, (the extremity of our mise­

ries gives me spirit to speak freely,) there is nothing

of a man but the figure and appearance; nor of a Ro­

man citizen, but the features, the dress, and the sound

of the Latine language. He is a pestilent and savage

monster; such as fables tell us formerly lay on each

side of the strait which divides us from Sicily, causing

the destruction of mariners. If however he had been

content with practising his own atrocities alone against

us your allies, that one gulf, however deep, we should

patiently have filled up. As the case at present stands,

he has made every one of your centurions and soldiers

a Pleminius; so much does he wish to render licen­

tiousness and wickedness universal. All rob, spoil,

beat, wound, slay; ravish both matrons and virgins;

while free-born children are torn from the embraces

of their parents. Our city is every day stormed,

every day plundered; all parts of it resound with the

lamentations of women and children, who are seized

and dragged away. Whoever knows our sufferings

cannot but be surprised that we still subsist under

them, and that our persecutors are not yet wearied.

It is neither in my power to recapitulate, nor ought

you to be troubled with hearing the particulars of our

calamities; I shall comprise them in general terms.

I affirm that there is not one house, that there is not

one man in Locri, exempt from injury; I affirm that

there is no instance of cruelty, lust, or avarice, which

has not been put in practice against every one capa­

ble of being the object of it. It is scarcely possible to

estimate which was the more lamentable disaster to

the city, its being taken in war by the enemy, or its

being crushed under the violence and arms of a tyrant

sent to protect it, yet bent on its destruction. Every

evil, conscript fathers, which cities taken by storm

suffer, we have suffered, and still continue to suffer,

without remission. Every kind of barbarity which

the most merciless and unreasonable tyrants practise

LIV. VOL. V. N

