HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXX. 249

the senate ratified and approved it.' They then or­

dered the pretor to prepare the following presents for

the king:—two purple rohes with a golden clasp and

vests, with broad purple borders; two horses with

trappings; two suits of horseman's armor, with coats

of mail; with tents and camp furniture, such as is

customary to provide for a consul. Donatives were

also voted for the ambassadors, not less than five thou­

sand asses i to each; for their attendants a thousand

asses;2 two suits of apparel to each of the ambassa­

dors, one to each of their attendants, and the same to

the Numidians, who were to be freed from imprison­

ment, and sent back to the king. Besides which, they

ordered intire suites of apartments and entertainment

for the embassy.

18. In the course of the summer, during which those

transactions passed in Africa, and these decrees at

Rome, Publius Quintilius Varus, pretor, and Marcus

Cornelius, proconsul, fought a pitched battle with Ma-

go the Carthaginian, in the country of the Insubrian

Gauls. The pretor's legions were in the first line;

Cornelius kept his in reserve, placing himself in the

front. The pretor and proconsul exhorted the soldiers

to make the attack with the utmost vigor. Finding

that they made no impression on the Carthaginian

line, Quintilius said to Cornelius, ' The battle flags, as

you may perceive; and the enemy, finding themselves

able to make resistance beyond what they had hoped,

are hardened against fear, and it is well if they do not

assume boldness: we must bear down with the ca­

valry, if we expect to disorder or drive them from

their ground. Do you therefore support the battle in

front, and I will bring up the horse; or I will take

care of matters here, while you charge with the ca­

valry of the four legions.' The proconsul offering to

undertake either part of the business, as the pretor

should direct, Quintilius the pretor, with his son Mar­

cus, a youth of a high and ardent spirit, took the com-

i 16/. 2s, lid.

2 SI. 4s. 7d.

