82 LIVY.

bal a furious conflict began, and dreadful slaughter

was made on both sides; for here were both the gene­

rals; here the greater part of the Roman infantry and

cavalry; here the Spaniards, veteran troops, and ac­

quainted with the Roman manner of fighting; and the

Ligurians, a race of hardy warriors. To the same part

the elephants were driven, which, at the first onset,

disordered the van, and made even the battalions give

ground; but afterwards, the contest growing hotter,

and the shouts louder, they soon became disobedient

to the directions of their riders, rambling up and down

between the two lines, without distinguishing their

own party, and ranging to and fro, not unlike ships

without rudders. Claudius in vain attempted to ad­

vance up the hill, often calling out thus to his men :—

'To what purpose then have we, with so much speed,

marched over such a length of way V However, see­

ing it impracticable to reach the enemy's line in that

quarter, he drew away some cohorts from his right

wing, where the troops would not be able to act, and

led them round behind the line. Then, to the surprise

not only of the enemy but of his friends also, he made

a brisk attack on their right flank; and so quick were

his motions, that almost at the same instant when his

men appeared on the flank they likewise attacked the

rear. Thus the Spaniards and Ligurians were cut to

pieces on all sides, in front, and flank, and rear; and

the havoc in a short time reached the Gauls. These

made very little opposition ; for great numbers of them

were absent from their posts, having slipped away in

the night, and lain down in the fields; while those who

were present, being exhausted by fatigue and want of

sleep, and being naturally ill qualified to endure toil,

had scarcely strength remaining sufficient to support

their armor. By this time it was mid-day; and while

they were panting with heat and thirst, they were slain

or taken at the will of the Romans.

49. Of the elephants, more were killed by their

guides than by the enemy. These carried a knife, like

that used by shoemakers, with a mallet; and when the

