HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXXI. 329

without coming to any resolution, he said, ' that there­

in he acted most prudently for the interest of the state;

for the jEtolians would have it in their power to join

in alliance with whichever of the parties should be

more successful in the war.' Nothing farther was done

in the assembly.

33. Meanwhile Philip was making vigorous prepa­

rations for carrying on the war both by sea and land.

His naval forces he drew together at Demetrias in

Thessaly; supposing that Attalus, and the Roman

fleet, would move from jEgina in the beginning of the

spring. He gave the command of the fleet and of the

sea-coast to Heraclides, to whom he had formerly in­

trusted it. The equipment of the land-forces he took

care of in person; and thought that he had deprived

the Romans of two powerful auxiliaries, the jEtolians

on the one side, and the Dardanians on the other, by

making his son Perseus block up the pass at Pela-

gonia. The consul was employed, not in preparations,

but in the operations of war. He led his army through

the country of the Dassaretians, leaving the corn un­

touched which he had brought from his winter quar­

ters, for the fields afforded supplies sufficient for the

consumption of the troops. The towns and villages

surrendered to him, some through inclination, others

through fear; some were taken by assault, others

were found deserted, the barbarians flying to the

neighboring mountains. He fixed a standing camp at

Lycus near the river Beous, and from thence sent to

bring in corn from the magazines of the Dassaretians.

Philip saw the whole country filled with consternation,

and not knowing the designs of the consul, he sent a

party of horse to discover his route. Sulpicius was in

the same state of uncertainty; he knew that the king

had moved from his winter quarters, but in what di­

rection he had proceeded, he knew not: he also had

sent horsemen to gain intelligence. These two par­

ties having set out from opposite quarters, after wan­

dering a long time among the Dassaretians, through

unknown roads, fell at length into the same road.

