298 LIVY.

all the shrines, that the war which the people had or­

dered against Philip might be attended with success

and prosperity. The consul Sulpicius, inquiring of the

heralds whether they would direct the declaration of

the war against king Philip to be made to himself in

person, or whether it would be sufficient to publish it

in the nearest garrison within the frontiers of his king­

dom, they answered that either would do. The consul

received authority from the seuate to send any person

whom he thought proper, not being a senator, as am­

bassador, to denounce war against the king. They

then proceeded to arrange the armies for the consuls

and pretors. The consuls were ordered to levy two

legions, and to disband the veteran troops. Sulpicius,

to whom the management of this new and highly im­

portant war had been decreed, was allowed permission

to carry with him as many volunteers as he could pro­

cure out of the army which Publius Scipio had brought

home from Africa; but he was not empowered to com­

pel any veteran soldier to attend him. They ordered

that the consul should give to the pretors, Lucius Fu-

rius Purpureo and Quintus Minucius Rufus, five thou­

sand of the allies of the Latine confederacy; with which

forces they should hold, one, the province of Gaul, the

other, Bruttium. Quintus Fulvius Gillo was ordered,

in like manner, to select out of the army which Pub­

lius tEHus, late consul, had commanded, such as had

been the shortest time in the service, until he also

made up five thousand of the allies and Latine confe­

derates, for guarding his province of Sicily. To Mar­

cus Valerius Falto, who, during the former year, had

held the province of Campania, as pretor, the command

was continued for a year; in order that he might go

over in quality of propretor to Sardinia, and choose

out of the army there five thousand of the allies of the

Latine confederacy, who also had been the shortest

time in the service. The consuls were at the same

time ordered to levy two legions for the city, which

might be sent wherever occasion should require; as

there were many states in Italy infected with an at-

