HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXXII. 391

the lower sea, to Genoa, opened the campaign with an

invasion of Lignria. Two towns, Clastidium and Li-

tubium, both belonging to the Ligurians, and two

states of the same nation, Celela and Cerdicium, sur­

rendered to him. And now, all the states on this side

of the Po, except the Boians among the Gauls, and

the Ilvatians among the Ligurians, were reduced to

submission: no less, it is said, than fifteen towns

and twenty thousand men. He then led his legions

into the territory of the Boians.

30. The Boian army had, not very long before,

crossed the Po, and joined the Insubrians and Caeno-

manians; for, having heard that the consuls intended

to act with their forces united, they wished to increase

their own strength by this junction. But when infor­

mation reached them that one of the consuls was ra­

vaging the country of the Boians, a dispute instantly

arose. The Boians demanded that all, in conjunction,

should carry succor to those who were attacked;

while the Insubrians positively refused to leave their

country defenceless. In consequence of this dissen­

sion, the armies separated; the Boians went to defend

their own territory, and the Insubrians, with the Cae-

nomanians, encamped on the banks of the river Min-

cius. About five miles below this spot the consul

Cornelius pitched his camp close to the same river.

Sending emissaries hence into the villages of the Cae-

nomanians, and Brixia, the capital of their tribe, he

learned with certainty that their young men had taken

arms without the approbation of the elders; and that

the Caenomanians had not joined in the revolt of the

Insubrians, by any authority from the state. On

which he invited to him the principal of the natives,

and endeavored to contrive and concert with them the

means of inducing the younger Caenomanians to for­

sake the party of the Insubrians; and either to march

away and return home, or to come over to the side

of the Romans. This he was not able to effect; but

so far, he received solemn assurances that, in case

of a battle, they would either stand inactive, or,

