HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXVII. 61

punishments and honors on the same object. If they

deemed him an honest man, why had they condemned

him as wicked and guilty? If they had discovered

proofs of his guilt, after seeing such reason to repent

of having trusted him with the consulship once, why

intrust him with it a second time V While he uttered

these, and such like reproaches and complaints, he

was checked by the senators, who bade him recollect

that 'Camillus, though exiled by his country, yet re­

turned at its call, and re-established it, when shaken

from the very foundations; that it was the duty of a

man to mollify by patience, and to bear with resigna­

tion, the severity of his country, like that of a parent.'

By the united exertions of all, Marcus Livius was

elected consul with Caius Claudius Nero.

35. Three days after the election of pretors was

held, and there were chosen into that office Lucius

Porcius Licinus, Caius Mamilius Aulus, and Caius

Hostilius Cato. As soon as the elections were con­

cluded, and the games celebrated, the dictator and

master of the horse resigned their offices. Caius Te-

rentius Varro was sent, as propretor, into Etruria, in

order that Caius Hostilius might go from that province

of Tarentum to take the command of the army which

had acted under the late consul, Titus Quintius; and

that Titus Manlius might go beyond sea, in the

character of ambassador, to observe what business

was going on abroad; and also, as during that sum­

mer the Olympic games were to be exhibited, which

were also attended by the greatest concourse of the

people of Greece, that he might go to that assembly,

if not prevented by the enemy, and inform any Sici­

lians whom he should find driven there, and any citi­

zens of Tarentum, banished by Hannibal, that they

might return to their homes, and might be assured

that the Roman people meant to restore to them the

whole of the property which they possessed before the

war began. As the approaching year seemed to

threaten the greatest dangers, and there were, as yet,

no magistrates for the administration of public affairs,

