228 uvy.

to gratify Scipio, who was then the ohject of universal

favor among all the members of the state. Therefore

thither were sent not only from Sardinia, as was men­

tioned before, but from Sicily also, and Spain, cloth­

ing, corn, and arms, with every other kind of stores;

while Scipio relaxed not his diligence during any part

of the winter in the operations of war, for which he

found abundant occasion on every side. He was en­

gaged in the siege of Utica; Hasdrubal's camp was

within sight; the Carthaginians had launched their

ships, and kept their ffeet equipped, and in readiness

to intercept his convoys. Amidst so many objects

which required his attention, he did not neglect en­

deavoring to recover the friendship of Syphax; hoping

that he might now perhaps be cloyed with love in the

full enjoyment of his bride. The answers of Syphax

contained, chiefly, proposals for an accommodation

with the Carthaginians on the terms of the Romans re­

tiring from Africa, and the Carthaginians from Italy;

but afforded scarcely any hopes that he would relin­

quish his present engagements. I am more inclined to

believe that this business was transacted by messen­

gers, as most authors affirm, than that Syphax came in

person to the Roman camp to a conference, as Antius

Valerius writes. At first, the Roman general hardly

permitted those terms to be mentioned by his people;

but afterwards, in order that they might have a plau­

sible pretext for going frequently into the enemy's

camp, he softened his refusals, even seemingly in­

clining to a negotiation. The winter huts of the Car­

thaginians were composed almost intirely of timber,

which they had hastily collected from the fields: those

of the Numidians were formed of reeds interwoven,

and most of them covered with mats, and dispersed up

and down without any regularity, some of them even

on the outside of the trench and rampart, for they

were left to choose their own ground. These circum­

stances being related to Scipio, gave him hopes that

he might find au opportunity of burning the enemy's

camp.

