HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXVMI. 163

pear to be actuated by fear of him, rather than by

contempt. Why, then, do you not direct your efforts

to this point, and carry the strength of the war imme­

diately to the place where Hannibal is, and not by

that circuition, presuming that, when you shall have

passed into Africa, Hannibal will follow you thither?

Do you wish to be crowned with the distinguished

honor of having finished the Punic war? In the very

nature of things, you are to defend your own pro­

perty, before you attack another's. Let peace be re­

stored in Italy before hostilities commence in Africa.

Let us be delivered from fear ourselves before we at­

tempt to make others afraid of us. If both can be ac­

complished under your conduct and auspices, it will be

well. After you have vanquished Hannibal at home,

then go and lay siege to Carthage. If one or the other

of these conquests must be left to succeeding consuls,

the former, as it will be the more important and the

more glorious, will be also the cause of the subsequent

one: for in the present state of affairs, besides that

the treasury cannot maintain two different armies, one

in Italy, and another in Africa; besides that we have

nothing left us wherewith we could equip fleets, or be

able to supply provisions; who does not see what dan­

ger must be incurred? Publius Licinius will wage

war in Italy, Publius Scipio in Africa. What if Han­

nibal, having gained a superiority, should advance to

the city (may all the gods avert the omen! my mind

is shocked even at mentioning it; but what has hap­

pened, may happen again), will that be a time for us

to be obliged to send for you, the consul, from Africa,

as we sent for Quintus Fulvius from Capua? Besides,

are we to suppose that in Africa the chances of war

will not be the same with both parties? Let your fa­

ther and your uncle be a warning to you, cut oflF,

together with their armies, in the space of thirty days;

and after having, during a course of several years, by

their great services, as well on land as at sea, rendered

the name of the Roman people, and of your family, in

the highest degree illustrious among foreign states.

