HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXVII. 77

light moment frequently impelled men's minds to hope

or fear. That themselves would reap almost the whole

fruits of the glory acquired by success; for, in all

cases, the last addition made to the acting force is sup­

posed to be most decisive of the business. That they

saw, by the concourse of people attending, with what

admiration, and with what warm attachment of all

ranks, their march was honored.' And, in fact, all

the roads through which they passed were lined with

men and women, who crowded thither from all parts

of the country, uttering vows and prayers for their

success; intermixing praises of their glorious enter­

prise; calling them the safeguard of the commonwealth,

the champions of the city, and of the empire of Rome;

on whose arms, and on whose valor, were reposed the

safety and liberty of themselves and of their children.

They prayed to all the gods and goddesses to grant

them a prosperous march, a successful battle, and

speedy victory: that they themselves might be bound

by the event to pay the vows they offered in their be­

half; and that as they now, with minds full of solici­

tude, accompanied them on their way, so they might,

in a few days, go out with hearts overflowing with joy

to meet them in triumph. Every one gave them warm

invitations, offered them every accommodation, and

pressed them with the most earnest intreaties to take

from him, rather than from another, whatever was re­

quisite for themselves or their cattle; in a word, every

thing that was wanted they with cheerfulness supplied

in abundance. Tbeir kindness was equalled by the

moderation of the soldiers, who would not accept of

any matter whatever beyond their necessary occasions.

They never halted on any account, nor quitted their

ranks to take their victuals, but marched day and night,

scarcely allowing themselves rest enough to answer the

calls of nature. Couriers were sent forward to the

other consul, to give notice of their coming, and to

know from him whether he chose that they should ap­

proach secretly or openly, by night or by day; whether

they should lodge in the same camp with him or in

