256 LIVY.

consul who was the nearest home, should be sent for,

to be present at the proceedings; for as no subject of

greater importance than the present could ever come

under their consideration, so he did not think it con­

sistent with the dignity of the Roman people, that an

affair of such magnitude should be transacted in the

absence of both the consuls.' Quintus Metellus, who

three years before had been consul, and had also been

dictator, proposed, that 'whereas Publius Scipio, by

destroying the armies of the enemy, and wasting their

country, had reduced them to such necessity, that they

sued for peace. No person whatever could be a more

competent judge of their intention in making the ap­

plication, and therefore they should be wholly directed

by the advice of that general, who was carrying on

the war under the walls of Carthage.' Marcus Vale­

rius Laeviuus, who had been twice consul, charged

those men with being come as spies, and not as ambas­

sadors; and advised, that ' they should be ordered to

depart from Italy; that guards should he sent with

them to their ships; and that orders should be sent to

Scipio, not to intermit his operations.' Laelius and

Fulvius added, that ' Scipio had grounded his hopes of

success on Hannibal and Mago not being recalled from

Italy. That the Carthaginians would feign a compli­

ance with any measures, while they waited for the ar­

rival of those generals and their armies; and would

afterwards, forgetting all gods and all treaties, how­

ever recent, pursue the war.' This observation made

them more readily concur in the opinion of Laevinus.

The ambassadors were therefore dismissed, and almost

without an answer.

24. About the same time the consul, Cneius Servi-

lius, not doubting bat that he should enjoy the glory

of having restored peace to Italy, passed over into

Sicily in pursuit of Hannibal, (as if he himself had

compelled him to retreat,) intending to proceed from

thence to Africa. As soon as this became known at

Rome, the senate at first voted that the pretor should

write to the consul that they required him to return to

