HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXVIII. 113

was not at that time well known; but the inviolable

fidelity which he ever afterwards preserved towards

Rome, through the whole course of a very long life, is

sufficient proof that he did not, even then, act without

a reasonable motive. Mago went to Gades in the ships

which had been sent back by Hasdrubal. Of the rest,

thus abandoned by their generals, some deserted,

others fled and dispersed through the neighboring

states; no detachment remaining, considerable either

for number or strength. These were the principal

events, in consequence of which, under the conduct

and auspices of Publius Scipio, the Carthaginians

were compelled to relinquish all footing in Spain, in

the thirteenth year from the commencement of hostili­

ties, the fifth from Scipio's having received the com­

mand of the province and of the army. Not long

after, Silanus returned to Scipio at Tarraco, with in­

formation that the war was at an end.

17. Lucius Scipio was employed in conveying to

Rome a great many prisoners of distinction, and in

carrying the news of the reduction of Spain. While

this was considered by all others as a most joyful and

glorious event, he alone, by whose means it had been

accomplished, insatiable in his pursuit of glory, con­

sidered it as a trifle in comparison with those designs

which his aspiring mind and sanguine hopes prompted

him to conceive. He now directed his views to Africa,

regarding the subjugation of Carthage, in all her

grandeur, as the consummation of his renown. Deem­

ing it necessary, therefore, to conciliate the friendship

of the several African kings and people, he resolved to

make the first trial of Syphax, king of the Massaesy-

lians,—a nation bordering on Mauritania, and lying

opposite to that part of Spain, particularly where New

Carthage stands. There was an alliance at that time

subsisting between this monarch and the Carthaginians.

Supposing him, however, not more firmly attached than

barbarians usually are, whose fidelity always depends

on fortune, Scipio despatched Laelius to him as envoy,

with proper presents. Syphax, highly delighted with

LIV. VOL. V. H

