346 livy.

began to concert measures for the siege of Oreus.

This city was well secured by fortifications; and also,

since the attempt formerly made on it, by a strong

garrison. After the taking of Andros, the combined

fleet had been joined by twenty Rhodian ships, all

decked vessels, under the command of Agesimbrotus.

This squadron they sent to cruise off Zelasium, a pro足

montory of Isthmia, very conveniently situate beyond

Demetrias, in order that, if the ships of the Macedo足

nians should attempt to come out, they might be at

hand to oppose them. Heraclides, the king's admiral,

kept his fleet there, rather with a view of laying hold

of any advantage which the negligence of the enemy

might afford him, than with a design of employing open

force. The Romans and king Attalus carried on their

attacks against Oreus on different sides; the Romans

against the citadel next to the sea, the king's troops against

the lower part of the town, lying between the two cita足

dels, where the city is also divided by a wall. As their

posts were different, so were their methods of attack:

the Romans made their approaches by means of covered

galleries, some carried by men, others moving on wheels,

applying also the ram to the walls; the king's troops,

by throwing in weapons with the balista, catapulta, and

every other kind of engine. They cast stones also of

immense weight, formed mines, and made use of every

expedient, which, on trial, had been found useful in

the former siege. On the other side, the Macedonian

garrison, in the town and the citadels, was not only

more numerous than on the former occasion, but ex足

erted themselves with greater spirit, in consequence of

the reprimands which they had received from the king

for their former misconduct, and also from remembrance

both of his threats and promises with regard to their

future behavior; so that there was very little hope of

its being speedily taken. The lieutenant-general

thought that, in the mean time, some other business

might be accomplished; wherefore, leaving such a

number of men as seemed sufficient to finish the works,

he passed over to the nearest part of the continent,

