HISTORY OP ROME. BOOK XXXI. 341

posted bodies of armed men at the gates, and on the

rampart, and from this safe situation looked with a

degree of confidence on the enemy, as long as they

continued quiet. But, as soon as the troops of the

Macedonians began to move, and to advance to the

rampart, in order of battle, and ready for an assault,

they all quickly abandoned their posts, and fled through

the opposite part of the camp, to the eminence where

the Athamanians were stationed. During their flight

in this confusion many of the jEtolians were slain,

and many made prisoners. Philip doubted not that,

had there been daylight enough remaining, he should

have been able to make himself master of the camp of

the Athamanians also; but the day being spent in the

fight, and in plundering the camp afterwards, he sat

down under the eminence, in the adjacent plain, de­

termined to attack the enemy at the first dawn. But

the jEtolians, under the same apprehensions which

had made them desert their camp, dispersed, and fled

during the following night. Amynander was of the

greatest service; for, by his directions, the Athama­

nians, who were acquainted with the roads, conducted

them into jEtolia, whilst the Macedonians pursued

them over the highest mountains through unknown

paths. In this disorderly flight a few, missing their

way, fell into the hands of the Macedonian horsemen,

whom Philip, at the first light, on seeing the eminence

abandoned, had sent to infest them on their march.

43. About the same time also, Athenagoras, one of

the king's generals, overtaking the Dardanians in their

retreat homeward, at first threw their rear into dis­

order: but these unexpectedly facing about, and form­

ing their line, the fight became like a regular engage­

ment. When the Dardanians began again to advance,

the Macedonian cavalry and light infantry harassed

those who had no troops of that kind to aid them, and

were, besides, burdened with unwieldy arms. The

ground too favored the assailants: very few were

slain, but many wounded; none were taken, because

they rarely quit their ranks, but both fight and retreat

