278 LIVY.

When this sight, unusual in a free state, raised a mur­

mur among the citizens, he being accustomed to mili­

tary manners, and disconcerted by their reception of

him, said to them: 'At nine years of age I left this

city, at the end of the thirty-sixth I have returned.

The rules of war, I think, I perfectly understand,

having from my childhood been continually supplied

with opportunities of learning them, at some times by

the state of my own affairs, at others, by that of the

public. The privileges, laws, and manners of the city

and of the forum you ought to teach me.' Having

thus apologised for his imprudence, he spoke at large

concerning the peace, showing how necessary it was,

and that the terms were not unreasonable. The great­

est difficulty of all was that of the fleet, which had

been captured during the truce; nothing was to be

found but the ships themselves, nor was it easy to col­

lect the effects, those who were charged with having

them in their possession making opposition to all that

was proposed. It was at length resolved, that the

ships should be restored, that the men at all events

should be collected, and that the other matters which

could not be produced, should be left to the valuation

of Scipio, according to which the Carthaginians should

make compensation in money. Some say that Han­

nibal, having gone from the field to the sea-coast,

sailed immediately in a ship which had been prepared,

and went to king Antiochus; and that when Scipio

made it a principal demand that Hannibal should be

given up to him, he was told that Hannibal had quitted

Africa.

38. On the return of the ambassadors to Scipio, the

questors were ordered to give in a return, extracted

from the public accounts, of the public property which

had been on board the ships; and the owners to make

a return of the private property: for the amount of

the value, twenty-five thousand pounds weight of sil­

ver were required to be immediately paid, and a truce

for three months was granted to the Carthaginians.

A clause was added, that during the truce, they should

