HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXXII. 383

tions with any great degree of vigor, because they had

hopes of a dissension breaking out between the towns­

men and the king's troops: but afterwards, learning

that they all co-operated with unanimity; that the

Macedonians exerted themselves as if in defence of

their native country; and that the Corinthians sub­

mitted, to the orders of Androsthenes, commander of

the garrison, as if he were their countryman, elected

by their own suffrages, and invested with legal autho­

rity,—the assailants had no other hopes but in force,

arms, and their works. They therefore brought up

their mounds to the walls, though by very difficult ap­

proaches. On that side where the Romans attacked

their ram demolished a considerable part of the wall;

and the Macedonians having run together to defend

the, place, thus stripped of its works, a furious conflict

ensued. At first, by reason of the enemy's superiority

in number, the Romans were quickly repulsed; but

being joined by the auxiliary troops of Attalus and the

Achaeans, they restored the fight to an equality; so

that there was no doubt of their easily driving the

Macedonians and Greeks from their ground, but that

there were in the town a great multitude of Italian de­

serters; some of whom, having been in Hannibal's

army, had, through fear of being punished by the Ro­

mans, followed Philip; others, having been sailors,

had lately quitted the fleets, in hopes of more honor­

able employment: despair of safety, therefore, in case

of the Romans getting the better, inflamed these to a

degree which might rather be called madness than

courage. Opposite to Sicyon is the promontory of

Juno Acrsea, as she is called, stretching out into the

main, the passage to Corinth being about seven miles.

To this place Philocles, one of the king's generals, led,

through Boeotia, fifteen hundred soldiers; and there

were barks from Corinth ready to take these troops on

board, and carry them over to Lechasum. Attalus, on

this, advised to burn the works, and raise the siege

immediately. Quintius was inclined to persevere in the

attempt. However, when he saw the king's troops

