132 LIVY.

inhabitants, and as the Mamertines held Messana in

Sicily,—never entertaining a thought of making war

on the Roman people or their allies. Did you intend

to settle your habitations at Sucro? a place in which,

if I your general at my departure, after finishing the

business of the province, had left you, and there to

remain, you ought to have appealed to gods and men,

on not being allowed to return to your wives and chil­

dren. But supposing that you had banished out of

your minds all recollection of them, as you did of

your country and of me, let us examine what could be

your design, and whether it can be accounted for on

the supposition of a depravity of principle, without in­

cluding also the utmost degree of folly. While I was

alive, and the other part of the army safe, with which

I took Carthage in one day, with which I vanquished,

put to flight, and drove out of Spain, four generals,

with four armies of the Carthaginians; could you ex­

pect that you, who were but eight thousand men, (all

of you of course inferior in worth to Albius and At-

rius, since to their command you submitted your­

selves,)—could you imagine, I say, that you should

be able to wrest the province of Spain out of the

hands of the Roman people? I lay no stress on my

own name, I put it out of the question, supposing my-

self no farther ill treated, than in your easily and joy­

fully giving credit to the report of my death. What!

If I were dead; was the state to expire along with

me? was the empire of the Roman people to fall with

Scipio? Jove, supremely great and good, forbid that

the city built for eternity, under the favor and direc­

tion of the gods, should last no longer than this frail

and mortal body! Although so many illustrious com­

manders, Flaminius, Paulus, Gracchus, Posthumius,

Albinus, Marcus Marcellus, Titus Quintius Crispinus,

Cneius Fulvius, my relations the Scipios, have all

been lost in one war, yet the Roman people still sur­

vive, and will survive, whilst a thousand others perish,

some by the sword, some by disease: and must the

Roman state have been carried out to burial along

