HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXVII. 11

ing persons were then elected pretors: Lucius Veturius

Philo, Titus Quintius Crispinus, Caius Hostilius Tu-

bulus, Caius Arunculeius. As soon as the appoint­

ment of magistrates for the year was finished, Quintus

Fulvius resigned the dictatorship. Towards the end

of this summer a Carthaginian fleet of forty ships,

under the command of Hamilcar, sailed over to Sar­

dinia, and committed great depredations in the dis­

trict of Olbia. Afterwards, on the pretor Publius

Manlius Vulso appearing there with an army, they

proceeded to the other side of the island, and ravaged

the lands of Caralita, from whence they returned with

booty of all kinds to Africa. Several Roman priests

died this year, and others were substituted in their

places. Caius Servilius was made a pontiff, in the

room of Titus Otacilius Crassus; Tiberius Sempro-

nius Longus, son of Tiberius, an augur, in the room of

Otacilius Crassus; and the same Tiberius Sempronius,

a decemvir for directing religious rites, in the room of

Tiberius Sempronius Longus, son of Caius. Marcus

Marcius, king in religious matters, and Marcus jEmi-

lius Papus, chief curio, died, but their places were

not filled up during this year. Lucius Veturius Philo,

and Publius Licinius Crassus, chief pontiff, were cre­

ated censors for the year. Licinius Crassus had not,

before this appointment, been either consul or pretor,

but was advanced, at one step, from the edileship to

the censorship. However, these censors neither chose

a senate, nor transacted any public business, being

prevented by the death of Lucius Veturius, on which

Licinius abdicated the office. The curule ediles, Lu­

cius Veturius and Publius Licinius Varus, repeated

the exhibition of the Roman games once. The plebeian

ediles, Quintus Catius and Lucius Porcius Licinius,

out of the money accruing from fines, erected brazen

statues in the temple of Ceres, and exhibited games

with much magnificence and splendor, considering the

circumstances of those times. ,

7. At the end of the year, Caius Laelius, Scipio's

lieutenant-general, on the thirty-fourth day after he

