174 LIVY.

to use every effort to raise the apprehensions of the

enemy, so that Scipio might be induced to return home.

To Mago they sent not only deputies, but twenty-five

ships of war, six thousand foot, eight hundred horse,

seven elephants, and also a large sum of money to hire

auxiliaries, whose support might encourage him to ad­

vance his army nearer to the city of Rome, and effect

a junction with Hannibal. Such were the preparations

and plans at Carthage. Whilst Laelius was employed

in carrying off immense booty from the country, which

he found destitute of arms and protection, Masinissa,

roused by the report of the arrival of a Roman fleet,

came to him attended by a few horsemen. He com­

plained that 'Scipio was dilatory in the business;

otherwise before that time he would have brought over

his army into Africa, while the Carthaginians were dis­

mayed, and Syphax engaged in wars with his neigh­

bors. That the latter was irresolute and undetermined;

and that if time were allowed him to settle his own af­

fairs as he liked, it would be seen that he had no sin­

cere attachment to the Romans.' He desired him to

'exhort and stimulate Scipio to activity;' assuring him

that 'he himself, though driven from his kingdom,

would join him with no contemptible force, both of

horse and foot.' He said that ' Lnelius ought not to

make any stay in Africa: that he believed a fleet had

sailed from Carthage, which it would not be very safe

to encounter in the absence of Scipio. After this dis­

course Masinissa departed; and next day Laelius set

sail from Hippo, having his ships laden with spoil; and,

returning to Sicily, delivered Masinissa's message to

Scipio.

5. About the same time, the ships which had been

sent from Carthage to Mago arrived on the coast be­

tween the country of the Albingannian Ligurians and

Genoa, near which place the Carthaginian happened at

that time to lie with his fleet. On receiving orders

from the deputies to collect as great a number of

troops as possible, he immediately held a council of

the Gauls and Ligurians (for there was a vast multi-

