140 LIVY.

greatly extend his line, and without delay began the

engagement, in order to divert the enemy's attention,

by the hurry of the conflict, from Laelius' detachment,

who were advancing from among the hills. In this

they succeeded, for the Spaniards were unconscious of

their coming, until they heard the tumult of the fight

between them and their own cavalry on the rear. Thus

there were two different battles; two lines of foot, and

two bodies of horse, were engaged along the extent of

the plain, the circumscribed ground not allowing them

to be composed of both together. On the side of the

Spaniards, as neither the foot could assist the horse,

nor the horse the foot, the latter, who had rashly ven­

tured into the plain, relying on the support of their

cavalry, were cut to pieces; and the cavalry being sur­

rounded, could neither withstand the Roman infantry

in front (for by this time their own was intirely cut

off), nor the cavalry on their rear; but, having formed

in a circle, and defended themselves a long time with­

out changing their position, they were all slain to a

man. Thus not one of those who were engaged in the

valley, either horse or foot, survived the fight. The

third company, which had stood on the hill rather to

view the engagement securely, than to take any part in

it, had both room and time to make their escape. The

two princes also fled with them during the tumult, and

before the army was intirely surrounded.

34. The same day the camp of the Spaniards was

taken, together with about three thousand men, be­

sides other booty. Of the Romans and their allies,

there fell one thousand two hundred; above three

thousand were wounded. The victory would have

been less bloody, if the battle had happened in a more

extensive plain, so as to have allowed the enemy an

easy flight. Indibilis, renouncing his project of pro­

ceeding farther in the war, and seeing no better pro­

spect of safety in this desperate state of his affairs than

in the honor and clemency of Scipio, which he had al­

ready experienced, sent his brother Mandonius to him;

who, prostrating himself at his feet, lamented 'the

