48 LIVY.

case, the entrails, being imperfect and foul, offered

no very happy presages.

27. But the consul Marcellus was possessed with

such a passionate desire for a trial of strength with

Hannibal, that he never thought his own camp close

enough to his; and on this occasion, as he was passing

the rampart, he left directions that every soldier

should be ready in his place, in order that, if the hill

which they were going to examine, should be approved

of, the whole might strike their tents, and follow them

thither. In front of the camp was a small plain, and

the road, leading thence to the hill, was open on all

sides, and exposed to view. A watchman whom the

Numidians had posted, not in expectation of an oppor­

tunity so important as this, but with the hope of cut­

ting off any party that might straggle too far in search

of wood or forage, gave them the signal to rise at once

from their concealments. Those who were to come

forth from the summit and meet the enemy in front

did not show themselves until the others, who were

to inclose them on the rear, had got round. Then all

sprung forward from every side, and raising a shout,

made a furious onset. Though the consuls were so

situated in the valley that they could neither force

their way up the hill, which was occupied by the

enemy, nor, surrounded as they were, effect a retreat,

the dispute might nevertheless have been protracted

for a longer time, bad not the Etrurians began to fly,

and thereby filled the rest with dismay. However, the

Fregellans, though abandoned by the Etrurians, did

not give up the contest, as long as the consuls re­

mained unhurt; who, by their exhortations, and their

own personal exertions, supported the spirit of the fight j

but, afterwards, seeing both the consuls wounded, and

Marcellus pierced through with a lance, and falling

lifeless from his horse, then the few betook themselves

to flight, carrying with them Crispinus, who had re­

ceived two wounds from javelins, and young Marcel­

lus, who was also hurt. One of the military tribunes,

Aulus Manlius, was slain: of the two prefects of the

