HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXVIII. 123

of these desperates, who, forming into a circle, and

continuing the fight, were slain to a man.

23. This severity, executed by an enraged enemy

on those who opposed them in arms, especially as they

were at the time engaged in hostilities with another

people, was not inconsistent with the laws of war.

But the more shocking havoc was in the city, where

a weak unarmed crowd of women and children were

assailed by their own countrymen, who tossed their

almost lifeless bodies on the burning pile, while streams

of blood kept down the rising flames, and who at last,

wearied with the wretched slaughter of their friends,

cast themselves with their arms] into the midst of the

fire. Just as the carnage was completed the victorious

Romans arrived. On the first sight of such a horrid

transaction, they were for a time struck motionless

with astonishment; hut afterwards, on seeing the gold

and silver glittering between the heaps of other mat­

ters, with the greediness natural to mankind, they

wished to snatch them out of the burning heap. In

attempting this, some were caught by the flames,

others scorched by blasts of the heat, the foremost

finding it impracticable to make a retreat against the

press of so great a crowd. Thus was Astapa utterly

destroyed by fire and sword, and without enriching the

soldiers with booty. All the other inhabitants of that

district, terrified at this event, made their submissions.

Marcius led back his victorious army to join Scipio

at Carthage. Just at the same time some deserters

arrived from Gades, who promised to deliver up the

city, the Carthaginian garrison, and the commander of

the garrison, together with the fleet. Mago had halted

there after his flight; and haVing collected a few ships

from the ocean adjoining, and, with the assistance of

Hanno his lieutenant, assembled others from the near­

est parts of Spain, had brought some supplies from

the coast of Africa. Terms being adjusted with the

deserters, and ratified on both sides, Marcius was

despatched thither with some cohorts equipped for ex­

pedition, and Laelius also, with seven three-banked

