HISTORY OF ROME.^BOOK XXVII. 79

should take a few days to himself to gain some know-

lege of the enemy. Nero, with the utmost earnestness,

iutreated them not, 'by delays, to render his enter­

prise rash in effect, when dispatch would insure its

success. In consequence of a deception, which could

not last long, Hannibal lay yet, in a manner, motion­

less; he neither assailed his camp, left as it was with­

out its commander, nor moved a step in pursuit of

him. Before he should stir Hasdrubal's army might

be cut off, and he himself might return into Apulia.

Whoever, by procrastination, allowed time to the ene­

my, would thereby betray the other camp to Hannibal,

and open for him a road into Gaul, so as to enable

him at bis leisure to effect a junctioti with Hasdrubal,

and whenever he pleased. They ought to give the sig­

nal instantly, march out to battle, and to take every

advantage of the delusion under which the enemy lay,

both the party in their neighborhood, and the other at

a distance, while the latter knew not that their oppo­

nents were decreased in number, nor the former that

theirs were become more numerous and powerful.'

Accordingly the council was dismissed, the signal of

battle was displayed, and the troops immediately

marched out to the field.

47. The Carthaginians were already drawn up in

order of battle before their camp. The only thing that

prevented an immediate engagement was, that Hasdru­

bal having, with a few horsemen, advanced before the

line, remarked among the enemy some old shields,

which he had not seen before, and horses leaner than

any he had hitherto observed; their number also seemed

greater than usual. On which, suspecting what was

the case, he hastily sounded a retreat; sent a party to

the watering place at the river, with orders to pick up,

if possible, some prisoners; also to observe attentively

whether there were any whose complexions were more

sun-burned than usual, as from a journey lately made:

at the same time, ordering another party to ride round

the camp, at a distance, to mark whether the rampart

had been extended on any side, and to watch whether

