222 LIVY.

ceedings, kept Etruria in obedience; though it was

almost intirely devoted to Mago, and to the hope of

obtaining, by his means, a change of government. The

inquisitions, directed by the senate, he executed with

the utmost impartiality; and many of the Tuscan no­

bles, who had either gone themselves, or sent deputies

to Mago, about the revolt of their states, stood trial,

and were found guilty. Others, from a consciousness

of guilt, went into voluntary exile; and by thus with­

drawing, though condemned in their absence, could

suffer only in a confiscation of their effects.

37. While the consuls were thus employed in diffe­

rent parts, the censors at Rome (Marcus Livius and

Cains Claudius) called over the list of the senate.

Quintus Fabius Maximus was again chosen principal;

seven were disgraced; not one, however, of those who

had sat in the curule chair. The orders for repairing

public buildings were enforced with the greatest strict­

ness. A road was contracted for, to be made from the

ox market to the temple of Venus, with public seats;

and a temple to be built for the Great Mother on the

Palatine hill. A new tax, from the sale of salt, was

established. This article had been sold at the sixth

part of an ass, both at Rome and in all parts of Italy;

and it was now directed to be supplied at the same rate

at Rome, at a higher in the country towns and mar­

kets, and at various prices in different places. People

were firmly persuaded that Livius had contrived this

tax in resentment, and on account of a sentence hav­

ing been formerly passed on him, which he had consi­

dered as unjust; and that, in fixing the price of salt,

the greatest burden had been laid on those tribes by

whose influence he had been condemned: hence the

surname of Salinator was given to him. The lustrum

was closed later than usual; because the censors sent

persons through all the provinces to bring them a re­

turn of the number of Roman citizens in each of the

armies. Including these, there were rated in the sur­

vey two hundred and fourteen thousand men. Caius

Claudius Nero had the honor of closing the lustrum.

