HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXVIII. 121

22. While Scipio was thus employed, operations

were carried on by his lieutenant Marcius, who, hav­

ing passed the river Baetis, which the natives call Cer-

tis, got possession of two wealthy cities, by surrender

without a contest. There was another called Astapa,

which had always taken part with the Carthaginians;

but that circumstance did not so much call for resent­

ment, as from their having acted towards the Romans

with an extraordinary degree of animosity, beyond

what the exigences of the war could warrant. This

was the more surprising, as they had no city so se­

cured, either by situation or fortification, as that it

might encourage such fierceness of temper; but the

disposition of the inhabitants delighting in plunder,

led them to make incursions into the neighboring

lands belonging to the allies of the Roman people, and

even to seize on small parties of soldiers, together with

the sutlers and traders. A large detachment also,

which was attempting to pass through their territory,

was surrounded by an ambuscade, and put to death in

a place where they could not defend themselves. As

soon as the army approached to besiege the city, the

inhabitants, conscious of their crimes, saw no prospect

of safety in surrendering to a people so highly pro­

voked; and as their fortifications were in such a state

that they could not greatly hope to defend themselves

by arms, they contrived a plan of the most shocking

and savage nature, which they agreed to execute on

themselves and their families. They fixed on a part

of the forum, into which they brought together all their

most valuable effects, and having made their wives

and children seat themselves on this heap, they piled

up timber all round it, and threw on it abundance of

faggots. They then gave a charge to fifty young men

in arms, that ' as long as the issue of the fight should

be uncertain, they should carefully guard in that spot

the fortunes of all, and the persons of those who were

dearer to them than their fortunes. Should they per­

ceive that their friends were worsted, and that the

city was likely to be taken, that then they might be

