362 LIVY.

swine with a human head. On occasion of these ill

omens a supplication of one day's continuance was

performed; the consuls employed themselves diligently

in the worship of the gods, and as soon as these were

appeased set out for their provinces. jElius, accom­

panied by Caius Helvius, pretor, went into Gaul,

where he put under the command of the pretor the

army which he received from Lucius Lentnlus, and,

which he ought to have disbanded, intending to carry

on his own operations with the new troops which he

had brought with him; but he effected nothing worth

recording. The other consul, Titus Quintins, setting

sail from Brundusium earlier than had been usual with

former consuls, reached Corcyra, with eight thousand

foot and eight hundred horse. From this place he

passed over, in a quinquereme, to the nearest part of

Epirus, and proceeded by long journeys to the Roman

camp. Here he dismissed Villius; and waiting a few

days, until the forces from Corcyra should come up

and join him, held a council, to determine whether he

should endeavor to force his way straight forward

through the camp of the enemy; or whether, without

attempting an enterprise of so great difficulty and dan­

ger, he should not rather take a circuitous and safe

road, so as to penetrate into Macedonia by the country

of the Dassaretians and Lycus. The latter plan would,

have been adopted had he not feared that, in removing

to a greater distance from the sea, the enemy might

slip out of his hands; and that if the king should re­

solve to secure himself in the woods and wilds, as he

had done before, the summer might be spun out with­

out any thing being effected. It was therefore deter­

mined, be the event what it might, to attack the enemy

in their present post, disadvantageous as it would seem

to an assailant. But it was easier to resolve on this

measure than to devise any safe or certain method of

accomplishing it.

10. Forty days were passed in view of the enemy,

without making any kind of effort. Hence Philip

conceived hopes of bringing about a treaty of peace,

