HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXXI. 315

fleet to give security to the Athenians, it was as much

as could be expected at present. Fortune threw in his

way an opportunity of accomplishing an enterprise of

greater moment.

23. Some exiles driven from Chalcis, by ill treat­

ment received from the king's party, brought intelli­

gence that the place might be taken without even a

contest; for the Macedonians, being under no imme­

diate apprehension from an enemy, were straying idly

about the country; and the townsmen, depending on

the Macedonian garrison, neglected the guard of the

city. Claudius, in consequence of this, set out, and

though he arrived at Sunium early enough to have

sailed forward to the entrance of the strait of Euboea,

yet fearing that, on doubling the promontory, he might

be descried by the enemy, he lay by with the fleet

until night. As soon as it grew dark he began to

move, and favored by a calm, arrived at Chalcis a little

before day; and then, approaching the city, on a side

where it was thinly inhabited, with a small party of

soldiers, and by means of scaling ladders, he got pos­

session of the nearest tower, and the wall on each

side. Finding in some places the guards asleep, and

other parts left without any watch, they advanced to

the more populous parts of the town, and having slain

the sentinels, and broke open a gate, they gave an

entrance to the main body of the troops. These im­

mediately spread themselves through all parts of the

city, and increased the tumult by setting fire to the

buildings round the forum, by which means both the

granaries belonging to the king, and his armory, with

a vast store of machines and engines, were reduced to

ashes. Then commenced a general slaughter of those

who fled, as well as of those who made resistance; and

after having either put to the sword or driven out every

one who was of an age fit to bear arms, (Sopater also,

the Acarnanian, who commanded the garrison, being

slain,) they first collected all the spoils in the forum,

and then carried it on board the ships. The prison, too,

was forced open by the iihodians, and those whom Philip

