2 LIVY.

fore lightly equipped for expedition, he hastened to

Herdonea by such long marches, that he almost anti­

cipated the report of his approach; and, to strike the

greater terror, he advanced in order of battle. The

Roman commander, fully equal to him in boldness,

but inferior in judgment and strength, hastily led out

his forces, and engaged him. The fifth legion, and

the left wing of allied infantry, commenced the fight

with vigor. But Hannibal gave directions to his ca­

valry that, as soon as the lines of infantry should have

their thoughts and eyes intirely occupied on the con­

test between themselves, they should ride round; that

one half of them should fall on the enemy's camp, and

the other on the rear of their troops that were engaged.

With a sneer on the name of Fulvins, he assured them

that, as he had utterly defeated him in the same coun­

try two years before, the present battle would have a

similar issue. Nor was this expectation ill-grounded:

for, after many of the Romans had fallen, in the close

conflict between the lines of infantry, (the companies

and battalions nevertheless still maintaining their

ground,) the tumult raised by the cavalry in the rear,

and the enemy's shout from the camp, which was

heard at the same time, put to flight the sixth legion,

which, being posted in the second line, was thrown

into disorder by the Numidians; as were afterwards

the fifth, and those in the van. Some fled in hurry

and confusion, the rest were surrounded and slain;

among whom fell Cneius Fulvius himself, with eleven

military tribunes. How many thousands of the Ro­

mans and allies were slain in that battle, who can posi­

tively affirm, when I find in some historians thirteen

thousand, in others not more than seven? The con­

queror possessed himself of the camp and the spoil.

Having discovered that Herdonea was disposed to re­

volt to the Romans, and would not continue faithful to

him after his departure, he removed the inhabitants to

Metapontum and Thurium, and burned the city to the

ground. The leaders of the party who were found to

have held secret conference with Fulvius he put to

