HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXXII. 363

through the mediation of the people of Epirus; and a

council, which was held for the purpose, having ap­

pointed Pausanias the pretor, and Alexander the mas­

ter of the horse, as negotiators, they brought the con­

sul and the king to a conference, on the banks of the

river Aous, where the channel was narrowest. The

sum of the consul's demands was, that the king should

withdraw his troops from the territories of the several

states; that to those whose lands and cities he had

plundered he should restore such of their effects as

could be found; and that the value of the rest should

be estimated by a fair arbitration. Philip answered,

that 'the cases of the several states differed widely

from each other: that such as he himself had seized

on he would set at liberty; but he would not divest

himself of the hereditary and just possessions which

had been conveyed down to him from his ancestors.

If those, with whom hostilities had been carried on,

complained of any losses in the war, he was ready to

submit the matter to the arbitration of any state with

whom both parties were at peace.' To this the consul

replied, that 'the business required neither judge nor

arbitrator: for who did not see clearly that every in­

jurious consequence of the war was to be imputed to

the first aggressor? And in this case Philip, unpro­

voked by any, had first commenced hostilities against

all.' When they next began to treat of those nations

which were to be set at liberty, the consul named,

first, the Thessalians: on which the king indignantly

exclaimed, 'What harsher terms, Titus Quintius, could

you impose on me, if I were vanquished?' With these

words he retired hastily from the conference; and they

were prevented only by the river, which separated

them, from assaulting each other with missile wea­

pons. On the following day many skirmishes took

place between parties sallying from the outposts, in a

plain sufficiently wide for the purpose. Afterwards

the king's troops drew back into narrow and rocky

places, whither the Romans, keenly eager for fighting,

penetrated also. These bad in their favor order and

