LIVY.

those of their friends. Two of their commanders, Nico

and Democrates, fell fighting courageously. Philo-

menus, who had been the author of the plot for be­

traying the city to Hannibal, rode away from the fight

at full speed; his horse was not long after seen stray­

ing through the city without a rider, but his body was

never found, and the general opinion was that he fell

from his horse into an open well. Carthalo, as he was

coming to the consul unarmed, to remind him of their

fathers being connected by- ah intercourse of hospi­

tality, was slain by a soldier who met him in the way.

The rest were put to the sword without distinction,

armed and unarmed, Carthaginians and Tarentines

alike. Many even of the Bruttians were killed, either

through mistake, or through the inveterate hatred

borne towards them by the Romans, or with design to

discountenance the report of the place being betrayed,

and that it might rather appear to have been taken by

force of arms. After this carnage, the victors pro­

ceeded in several parties to plunder the city. We are

told that there were here thirty thousand persons in a

state of servitude, a vast quantity of silver wrought

and coined, eighty-seven thousand pounds weight of

gold, together with statues and pictures in such num­

bers, as almost to rival the decorations of Syracuse.

But Fabius, with more greatness of mind than was

shown by Marcellus, refrained from meddling with

booty of that sort; and when his secretary asked him

what he would have done with the statues of their

gods, which were of gigantic size, and habited like

warriors, he ordered him to 'let the Tarentines keep

their angry gods to themselves.' Then the wall, which

separated the citadel from the town, was demolished

and rased. Amid these transactions Hannibal, having

made prisoners the party employed in the siege of

Caulon, who capitulated, hearing of the siege of Ta-

retitum, marched night and day with all expedition to

relieve it: but while he was hastening thither, he re­

ceived the news of its being taken. On this he ob­

served, 'the Romans, too, have their Hannibal: we

