HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXX. 235

side, should quickly subdue all the neighboring places,

and then immediately invest their city. They there­

fore repaired the walls, and strengthened them with

outworks; every one exerting himself, in bringing in

from the country such things as were requisite for

sustaining a long and powerful siege. Little mention

was made of peace; very many advised that a deputa­

tion should be sent to recall Hannibal; but the greater

number were earnest for despatching the fleet, (which

liad been equipped for the purpose of intercepting the

convoys,) to surprise the ships stationed at Utica,

where no attack was expected; alleging the probabi­

lity that they might, at the same time, make them­

selves masters of the naval camp, which had been left

with a slight guard. This latter scheme met general

approbation; but, at the same time, they determined

to call Hannibal home, because, should the fleet meet

with all possible success, Utica would, indeed, be re­

lieved from some part of the pressure of the siege;

but, for the defence of Carthage itself, there was now

no general remaining but Hannibal, and no army but

his. The ships were therefore launched on the follow­

ing day; at the same time the deputies set out for

Italy, and, the juncture being critical, every measure

was executed with the utmost despatch; each man

thinking, that if he were in any degree remiss, he was

so far a betrayer of the public safety. Scipio led on

his forces by slow marches, as they were heavily

loaded with the spoils of many cities. After sending

the prisoners and other booty to his old camp at Utica,

directing his views to Carthage, he seized on Tunes,

which was defenceless, the garrison having fled. This

city was very strong, both by nature and art: it may

be seen from Carthage, from which it is distant about

fifteeu miles, and at the same time affords a prospect

of that city and the adjacent sea.

10. The Romans, while busily employed in raising

a rampart at Tunes, descried the fleet which was steer­

ing to Utica. On this the work was instantly dropped,

and orders to march were issued. The troops set out

