400 LIVY.

of Quintus Fabius, the son of bis wife's sister, Quintus

Fulvius, and Appius Claudius.

37. On their arrival at Rome, the ambassadors of

the allies were admitted to audience before those of

the king. Their discourse, in general, was filled up

with invectives against Philip. What produced the

greatest effect on the minds of the senate was, that,

by pointing out the relative situations of the lands and

seas in that part of the world, they made it manifest to

every one that if the king held Demetrias in Thessaly,

Chalcis in Euboea, and Corinth in Achaia, Greece

could not he free; and they added, that Philip him­

self, with not more insolence than truth, used to call

these the fetters of Greece. The king's ambassadors

were then introduced, and, when they were beginning

a long harangue, they were stopped by a short ques­

tion, Whether he was willing to yield up the three

above-mentioned cities? They answered, that they had

received no specific instructions on that head: on which

they were dismissed, without having made any pro­

gress towards a peace. Full authority was given to

Quintius to determine every thing relative to war and

peace. As this demonstrated clearly that the senate

were not weary of the war, so he who was more

earnestly desirous of conquest than of peace, never

afterwards consented to a conference with Philip; and

even gave him notice that he would not admit any em­

bassy from him, unless it came with information that

his troops were retiring from Greece.

38. Philip now perceived that he must decide the

matter by arms, and collect his strength about him

from all quarters. Being particularly uneasy in re­

spect to the cities of Achaia, a country so distant from

him, and also of Argos, even more, indeed, than of

Corinth, he resolved, as the most advisable method, to

put the former into the hands of Nabis, tyrant of Lace-

daemon, in trust as it were, on the terms, that if he

should prove successful in the war, Nabis should re­

deliver it to him; if any misfortune should happen, he

