208 LIVY.

ried on, during my command, may all conduce to the

happiness of myself, the stale, and people of Rome; of

the allies, and the Latine confederates, who follow my

party, command, and auspices, and those of the Roman

people on sea, on land, and on rivers. Lend your

favorable aid to all those measures, and farther them

by happy advancements; bring us all home, unhurt

and victorious, decorated with spoils, laden with booty,

and exulting in triumph. Grant us the opportunity of

taking vengeance on our foes; and whatever attempts

the Carthaginian people have made to injure our state,

grant to me, and to the Roman people, power to re­

taliate the same evils on the state of Carthage.' After

these prayers, he threw into the sea, according to cus­

tom, the raw entrails of a victim which had been slain,

and gave by a trumpet the signal for sailing. The wind

being favorable and blowing fresh, when they set sail,

they were soon carried out of sight of land; but about

noon a fog arose, which made it difficult to keep the

ships from running foul of each other. As they ad­

vanced into the open sea, the wind abated: during the

following night the haziness continued, but at the

rising of the sun it was dispersed, and the wind fresh­

ened. The pilot soon after told Scipio that ' Africa

was not above five miles distant; that he saw the pro­

montory of Mercury; and that if he gave orders to

steer thither, the whole fleet would be immediately in

harbor.' As soon as Scipio came within sight of land,

he prayed to the gods that his seeing Africa might be

happy for the state, and for himself: he then gave

orders to make sail for another landing-place. They

proceeded with the same wind ; but a fog arising, as on

the day before, hid the land from their sight; and in­

creasing as the night came on, involved every object in

obscurity. They therefore cast anchor, lest the ships

should run foul of each other, or be driven on shore.

At daybreak, however, the wind sprung up, dispersed

the fog, and discovered the coast of Africa. Scipio,

inquiring the name of the nearest promontory, and

being told that it was called Cape Fair, said, 'the

