HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXXII. 385

his bands by some of the principal inhabitants, after

they had first sounded the minds of the populace. They

bad a custom, that, on the first day of assembly, their

pretors, for the omen's sake, should pronounce the

names Jupiter, Apollo, and Hercules; in addition to

which, a rule had been made, that, along with these,

they should join the name of king Philip. After the

conclusion of the alliance with the Romans the herald

omitted so to honor him; on which a murmur spread

through the multitude, and they soon became clamor­

ous, calling out for the name of Philip, and insisting

that the respect, due by law, should be paid as be­

fore; which at length being complied with, universal

approbation ensued. On the encouragement afforded

by this favorable disposition, Philocles was invited,

who seized in the night a strong post called Larissa,

seated on a hill which overhangs the city, and in which

he placed a garrison. At the dawn of day, however,

and as he was proceeding in order of battle to the

forum, at the foot of the hill he was met by a line of

troops, drawn up to oppose him. This was a body of

Achaeans, lately posted there, consisting of about five

hundred young men, selected out of all the states.

Their commander was iEnesidemus, of Dymae. The

king's general sent a person to recommend to them to

evacuate the city, because they were not a match for

the townsmen alone, who favored the cause of Philip;

much less when these were joined by the Macedonians,

whom even the Romans had not withstood at Corinth.

This at first had no effect, either on the commander, or

his men: and when they, soon after, perceived the Ar-

gives also in arms, coming, in a great body, from the

opposite side, and threatening them with destruction,

they yet seemed determined to run every hazard, if

their leader would persevere. But jEnesidemus, un­

willing that the flower of the Achasan youth should be

lost, together with the city, made terms with Phi­

locles, that they should have liberty to retire, while

himself remained armed with a few of his dependents,

and without even stirring from his station, To a per-

liv. vol. v. 2 b

