92 LIVY.

to Rome, he himself retired to Tarraco. During the

same year the Roman fleet, under Marcus Valerius

Laevinus, proconsul, sailing over from Sicily to Africa,

made extensive devastations in the territories of Utica

and Carthage, carrying off plunder from the remotest

bounds of the Carthaginian territory, even from under

the very walls of Utica. On their return to Sicily

they were met by a Carthaginian fleet, consisting of

seventy ships of war; seventeen of these they took,

and sunk four; the rest were beaten and dispersed.

The Romans, victorious by land and sea, returned to

Lilybaeum, with immense booty of every kind. The

sea being thus cleared of the enemy, abundance of

provision was brought to Rome.

5. In the beginning of the summer during which

these transactions passed Publius Sulpicius, procon­

sul, and king Attalus, after having wintered at JEgina

as mentioned above, united their fleets, consisting of

twenty-three Roman five-banked gallies, and thirty-

five belonging to the king, and sailed from thence to

Lemnos. Philip also, that he might be prepared for

every sort of exertion, whether he should have occa­

sion to oppose the enemy on land or sea, came down to

the coast of Demetrias, and appointed a day for his

army to assemble at Larissa. On the news of the

king's arrival embassies from his allies came to Deme­

trias from all sides; for the jEtolians, elated both by

their alliance with the Romans, and by the approach of

Attalus, were ravaging the neighboring states. Not

only the Acarnanians, Uoeotians, and Euboeans, were

under violent apprehensions, but the AchKans also

were kept in terror, as well by the hostilities of the

.iEtolians as by Machanidas, tyrant of Lacedaemon,

who had pitched his camp at a small distance from the

borders of the Argives. All these, representing the

dangers both on land and sea with which their several

possessions were threatened, implored the king's as­

sistance. Philip, even from his own kingdom, received

accounts that affairs there were not in a state of tran­

quillity; that both Scerdilaedus and Plcuratus were in

