HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXIX. 179

sending directions to those who were in the lesser cita­

del to take care of themselves, he decamped by night.

On which, setting fire to the houses there, in order to

obstruct any operations of the enemy, they hastened

away, as if flying from a pursuit, and overtook the

main body of their army at the close of day.

8. When Scipio saw both citadel and camp de­

serted by the enemy, he summoned the Locrensians to

an assembly, rebuked them severely for their revolt,

inflicted punishment on the chief promoters of it, and

bestowed their effects on the leaders of the opposite

faction, as a reward for their extraordinary fidelity to­

wards the Romans. As to the community of the Lo­

crensians, he said, ' he would neither make any grant

to them, nor take any thing from them. Let them

send ambassadors to Rome, where they would obtain

such a settlement of their affairs as the senate should

judge reasonable. Of this he was confident, that,

though they had deserved harsh treatment from the

greatly provoked Romans, they would yet enjoy a

better state in subjection to them, than under their

professed friends the Carthaginians.' Then, leaving

Quintus Pleminius, lieutenant-general, with the troops

which had taken the citadel, to defend the city, he re­

turned to Messana with the forces which he had

brought from thence. The Locrensians, after their

revolt from the Romans, had been treated by the Car­

thaginians with such haughtiness and cruelty, that

they could now have endured a lesser degree of seve­

rity not only with patience, but almost with content.

But in all excesses, so much did Pleminius surpass

Hamilcar, who had commanded their garrison, and the

Roman soldiers the Carthaginians, that there seemed

to be a greater emulation between them in vices than in

arms. Not one of those acts, which render the power

of a superior odious to the helpless, was left unprac­

tised on the inhabitants by the commander or his troops:

the roost shocking insults were offered to their persons,

to their children, and to their wives. Nor did their

avarice refrain even from the plundering of things sa-

