188 LIVY.

Cneius who bad fallen in Spain, (a youth who had not

yet obtained a questorship,) was the best of all the good

men in Rome. If the authors who wrote in the times

nearest to this transaction, and when the memory of it

was fresh, had mentioned the particular merits which

induced them to make this determination, I should

gladly have handed down the information to posterity:

but I will not obtrude any opinion of my own, formed,

as it must be, on conjecture, when relative to a matter

buried in the obscurity of remote antiquity. Publius

Cornelius was accordingly ordered to repair to Ostia,

to meet the goddess, attended by all the matrons; to

receive her himself from the ship, and then to deliver

her to the said matrons, to be transported to the city.

Scipio, falling down the river Tiber, as had been or­

dered, received the goddess from the priests, and con­

veyed her to the land. She was there received by the

above-mentioned women, and who were the principal

of the city, among whom the name of Claudia Quinta

alone has been distinguished; for her character, as is

said, having at one time been dubious, the share which

she had in this solemn act of religion rendered her

chastity no longer questionable, and she became illus­

trious among posterity. Tlrese, relieving each other

in succession, carried this saving divinity into the

temple of Victory, on the Palatine hill, whilst all the

city poured out to meet her, censers being placed be­

fore the doors, wherever the procession passed, and

incense burned in them; all praying that she would

enter the city with good-will, and a favorable disposi­

tion. This happened on the day preceding the ides of

April; and which was appointed a festival. The peo­

ple in crowds carried presents to the goddess, and

there was a religious feast ordained, with games called

Megalesian.

15. When they came to consider of the supplies for

the legions that were in the provinces, it was suggested

by certain of the senators that there were some things

which, however they might have been tolerated in times

of distress, ought not to be any longer endured;

