LIVY.

thrown into prison. When first produced by the tri­

bunes, the people found no room for mercy, prepos­

sessed as they were by the calamities of the Locren-

sians. However, after having been repeatedly brought

forward, and the odium abating through length of time,

the public resentment was softened; while the maimed

condition of Pleminius, and the respect they had for

Scipio, even in his absence, conciliated for them some

degree of favor. Nevertheless, Pleminius died in con­

finement, and before his trial was finished. Clodius

Licinius, in the third book of his Roman history, re­

lates, indeed, that this Pleminius, during the votive

games which Africanus, in his second consulate, ex­

hibited at Rome, made an attempt, by means of some

persons whom he had bribed, to set fire to the city in

several places, that he might have an opportunity of

breaking the prison, and making his escape; and that

on the discovery of his wicked design, he was com­

mitted to the dungeon by order of the senate. Con­

cerning Scipio, there were no proceedings but in the

senate, where the encomiums made by all the deputies

and the tribunes on that general, his fleet, and army,

induced them to vote that be should pass over into

Africa as soon as possible; with liberty to make his

own choice from out the forces then in Sicily, which

to carry with him, and which to leave for the defence

of the province.

23. During these transactions at Rome, the Cartha­

ginians, on their side, passed the winter in extreme

anxiety. They fixed beacons on every promontory;

kept scouts in incessant motion, every messenger filling

them with terror. They had acquired, however, an ad­

vantage of no small moment towards the defence of

Africa,—an alliance with king Syphax; an assistance,

on which they supposed the Romans to have relied,

and as being their great inducement to set foot on

Africa. Hasdrubal, son of Gisgo, was not only con­

nected with the king in hospitality (as has been men­

tioned above, when he and Scipio happened to come to

him at the same time from Spain), but mention had been

