230 LIVY.

to put an end to the war, none of the other parties, in

tact, showing any disposition towards it: that Syphax

must entertain no hopes of entering into any treaty

with the Romans, unless he renounced the party of the

Carthaginians.' Thus he dissolved the truce, in plans.

Launching his ships, (for it was now the beginning of

spring,) he put on board engines and machines, as if

an attack on Utica were intended by sea; at the same

time sending two thousand men to take possession of

the hill which commanded that place, and which he

had formerly occupied, with a view, at once to divert

the attention of the enemy from his real design, and to

prevent any sally being made from the city, while he

should be employed at a distance against Syphax and

Hasdrubal. He likewise feared an attack should bis

camp be left with only a small force to defend it.

5. Having taken these preparatory steps, he sum­

moned a council, ordering the spies to give an account

of the discoveries which they had made; at the same

time requesting Masinissa, who was as well acquainted

with every circumstance of the enemy, to deliver his

opinion ; and, lastly, he informed them of a plan which

he intended to execute on the following night. He

gave orders to the tribunes that, as soon as the trum­

pets had sounded on the breaking up of the meeting at

the pretorium, they should march the legions out of

the camp. In pursuance of these orders the troops

began to move a little before sunset: about the first

watch they formed their line of march; and about

midnight, (for the way was seven miles,) proceeding in

a moderate pace, they arrived at the enemy's camp.

He there gave Laelius the command of a part of the

forces, to whom were joined Masinissa and the Numi-

dians, with orders to fall on the camp of Syphax, and

set it on fire. Then, taking Laelius and Masinissa

apart, he intreated each separately, that 'as the night

would be apt to impede the best concerted measures,

they should make up for the difficulties by their dili­

gence and care;' telling them also, that ' he meant to

attack Hasdrubat and the Carthaginian camp, but would

