HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXVIII. 133

with my single body? You yourselves, here in Spain,

when my father and uncle, your two generals, were

slain, chose Septimus Marcius your leader against the

Carthaginians, exulting in their late victory. I men­

tion this as if Spain would have been without a leader;

but would Marcus Silanus, who was sent into the pro­

vince, invested with the same privileges, the same

command with myself; would my brother Lucius Sci-

pio, and Caius Laelius, lieutenants-general, be wanting

to avenge the majesty of the empire? Could either

the armies, or the leaders, or their dignity, or their

cause, admit of a comparison? And even if you were

superior to all these, would you bear arms on the side

of the Carthaginians, against your country, against

your countrymen? Would you wish that Africa

should rule over Italy, Carthage over the city of

Rome? And for what fault, I would ask, of your na­

tion?

29. ' Coriolanus, provoked by a grievous and unde­

served banishment to take up arms against his oppres­

sors, yielded, however, to the call of duty to a parent,

and refrained from committing parricide on his country.

What grief, what anger had incited you? Was the

delay of your pay for a few days, and while your ge­

neral was sick, sufficient reason for declaring war

against your native land? to revolt from the Roman

people to the Illergetians? to leave no obligation, di­

vine or human, unviolated? Soldiers, the truth is,

you have been mad; nor was the disorder which

seized my body more violent than that which seized

your minds. It shocks me to mention what such men

believed, what they hoped, what they wished. But

let all those matters be buried in oblivion, if possible;

if not, let them however be covered in silence. I

doubt not but my language may appear to you severe

and harsh; yet how much more harsh your actions

than my words! Do you think it reasonable that I

should bear the facts which you have committed, and

that you should not have patience to hear them men­

tioned? But even with these things you shall be re­

