HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXVIII. 166

Africa; where there is not a single harbor open to onr

fleet; no part of the country at peace with us; no

state our ally; no king our friend; no room, any­

where, either to stand or advance. On whatever side

you turn your eyes, all things are hostile and threaten­

ing. Will you depend on Syphax and the Numi-

dians? Suffice it to say that they were once trusted.

Rashness is not always successful; and hypocrisy, by

acquiring a foundation of credit in smaller matters,

prepares for itself the opportunity of deceiving with

greater advantage. The foe did not get the better of

your father and uncle by arms until their Celtiberian

allies had first got the better of them by treachery.

Nor were you yourself brought into so much danger

by Mago and Hasdrnbal, the enemy's generals, as by

lndibilis and Mandonius, whom you had received into

your protection. Can you, who have experienced a

defection of your own soldiers, place any confidence in

Numidians? Both Syphax and Masinissa are desirous

of becoming the greatest powers in Africa, to the ex­

clusion of the Carthaginians; but still they prefer the

interest of those people to that of any other state. At

present, mutual emulation embitters them against each

other, and which arises from their feeling no imme­

diate apprehensions from any foreign force. The mo­

ment they behold the Roman arms they will instantly

unite, as if to extinguish a fire equally threatening

them both. The efforts which these same Carthagi­

nians made in support of Spain were widely different

from what they will exert in defence of the walls of

their native city, of the temples of their gods, their

altars, and their dwellings; when their wives, dis­

tracted with fear, shall accompany them as they go to

battle, and their helpless children gather round them.

Besides, what if the Carthaginians, thinking them­

selves sufficiently secured by the harmony subsisting

in Africa, by the faith of the kings their allies, and by

their own fortifications, should, on seeing Italy de­

prived of your protection, either send over a new army

from Africa into Italy, or order Mago (who, we know,

