HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXIX. 171

words when the Roman horse, pushing forwards into

the midst of their ranks, threw the line of infantry

into confusion, and at the same time closed up the

passes by which the Spanish horse were to have ad­

vanced to a charge. The Spaniards, therefore, quitting

all thoughts of fighting on horseback, dismounted, in

order to engage on foot. When the Roman generals

perceived the enemy's disorder, that they were con­

fused and terrified, and their battalions wavering, they

encouraged, they intreated their men, to 'push them

briskly while they were dismayed, and not to suffer

their line to be formed again.' The barbarians could

not have withstood so furious an onset had not their

prince, Indibilis, dismounting with the cavalry, thrown

himself into the front of the foremost battalions of in­

fantry. There the contest was supported for some

time with great fury. At length those who fought

round the king fell, overwhelmed with darts, and he

himself, continuing to make resistance, though ready

to expire, was pinned to the earth with a javelin; on

which their troops betook themselves to flight in all

■ parts. The number of the slain was the greater, be­

cause the horsemen had not time to remount their

horses, being vigorously pressed by the Romans, who

did not relax in the least until they had driven them

from their camp. There fell on that day, of the Spa­

niards, thirteen thousand, and about eight hundred

were taken. Of the Romans and their allies, little

more than two hundred were killed, most of them on

the left wing. The Spaniards who were beaten out of

the camp, or who had escaped from the battle, at first

dispersed about the country, and afterwards returned

to their respective homes. They were soon after sum­

moned thence to an assembly by Mandonius, where,

after complaining heavily of their losses, and severely

censuring the advisers of the war, they came to a reso­

lution that ambassadors should be sent to Scipio with

proposals to make surrender of themselves. These

laid the blame on Indibilis and the other chiefs, most

of whom had fallen in battle, offering to deliver up

