HISTORY OF ROME 317 .—BOOK XXXI.

pus, commander of a cohort of mercenary auxiliaries,

called the soldiers together in the forum, and ordered

the trumpets to sound an alarm from the citadel, that

all might be informed of the approach of the enemy.

On which the people ran from all quarters to the gates,

and afterwards to the walls. In a few hours after, and

still some time before day, Philip approached the city;

and observing a great number of lights, and hearing

the noise of the men hurrying to and fro, as usual on

such an alarm, he halted his troops, and ordered them

to sit down and take some rest; resolving to use open

force, since his design of surprise had not succeeded.

Accordingly he advanced on the side of Dipylos, or

the double gate, which being the principal entrance of

the city, is somewhat larger and wider than the rest.

Both within and without the streets are wide, so that

the townsmen could form their troops from the forum

to the gate, while on the outside, a road of about a

mile in length, leading to the school of the academy,

afforded open room to the foot and horse of the enemy.

The Athenians, who had formed their troops within

the gate, marched out with Attalus' garrison, and the

cohort of Dioxippus, along that road. This Philip ob­

served, and thinking that he had the enemy in his

power, and might now satisfy his revenge in their de­

struction, and which he had long wished for, (being

more incensed against them than any of the Grecian

states,) he exhorted his men to keep their eyes on him

during the fight, and to take notice, that wherever the

king was, there the standards and the army ought to

be. He then spurred on his horse, animated not only

with resentment, but with a desire of gaining honor,

reckoning it a glorious opportunity of displaying his

prowess in the view of an immense crowd which

covered the walls, many of them for the purpose of

beholding the engagement. Advancing far before the

line, and with a small body of horse, rushing into the

midst of the enemy, he inspired his men with great

ardor, and the Athenians with terror. Having wounded

many with his own hand, both in close fight and with

