342 livy.

in a close body. Thus Philip, having checked the

proceedings of those two nations by these well-timed

expeditions, gained reparation for the damages sus­

tained from the operations of the Romans; the enter­

prise being as spirited as the issue was successful.

An accidental occurrence lessened the number of his

enemies on the side of iEtolia. Scopas, a man of

considerable influence in his own country, having been

sent from Alexandria by king Ptolemy, with a great

sum of gold, hired and carried away to Egypt, six

thousand foot and some horse; nor would he have

suffered one of the young jEtolians to remain at home

had not Damocritus, (it is not easy to say, whether

out of zeal for the good of the nation, or out of oppo­

sition to Scopas, for not having secured his interest

by presents,) by sometimes reminding them of the war

with which they were threatened, at other times, of

the solitary state in which their country would be left,

detained some of them. Such were the actions of the

Romans and of Philip during that summer.

44. In the beginning of the same summer the fleet

under Lucius Apustius, lieutenant-general, setting sail

from Corcyra, and passing by Malea, formed a junc­

tion with king Attalus, ofl" Scyllaeum, which lies in the

district of Hermione. The Athenian state, which had

for a long time, through fear, restrained their animo­

sity against Philip within some bounds, assuming con­

fidence from the support now afforded them, gave full

scope to it without any reserve. There are never

wanting in that city orators, who are ready on every

occasion to inflame the people; a kind of men, who,

in all free states, and more particularly in that of

Athens, where eloquence florishes in the highest de­

gree, are maintained by the favor of the multitude.

These immediately proposed a decree, and the com­

mons passed it, that 'all the statues and images of

Philip, with their inscriptions, and likewise those of

all his ancestors of both sexes, should be removed

and defaced; that the festival days, solemnities, and

priests, which had been instituted in honor of him or

