HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXXII. 357

post for fortifying himself was on the river Aous. This

river runs in a narrow vale, between two mountains,

one of which the natives call the river Asnaus, afford­

ing a passage of very little breadth along the bank.

He ordered Athenagoras, with the light infantry, to

take possession of Asnaus, and to fortify it. His own

camp he pitched on iEropus. Those places, where the

rocks were steep, were defended by guards of a few

soldiers only; the less secure he strengthened, some

with trenches, some with ramparts, and others with

towers. A great number of engines, also, were dis­

posed in proper places, that, by means of weapons

thrown from these, they might keep the enemy at a

distance. The royal pavilion was pitched on the out­

side of the rampart, on the most conspicuous emi­

nence, in order, by this show of confidence, to dis­

hearten the foe, and raise the hopes of his own men.

6. The consul received intelligence from Charopus

of Epirus, that the king, with his army, had posted

himself in this pass. As soon therefore as the spring

began to open, he left Corcyra, where he had passed

the winter, and, sailing over to the continent, led on

his army. When he came within about five miles

of the king's camp, leaving the legions in a strong

post, he went forward in person with some light troops

to view the nature of the country; and, on the day fol­

lowing, held a council, in order to determine whether

he should, notwithstanding the great labor and danger

to be encountered, attempt a passage through the de­

files occupied by the enemy, or lead round his forces

by the same road through which Sulpicius had pene­

trated into Macedonia the year before. The delibera­

tions on this question had lasted several days, when

news arrived that Titus Quintus had been elected con­

sul; that he had obtained, by lot, Macedonia as his

province; and that hastening his journey, he had al­

ready come over to Corcyra. Valerius Antias says

that Villius marched into the defile, and that, as he

could not proceed straight forward, because every pass

was occupied by the king, he followed the course of a

