142 Ll VY.

and Silamis back to Tarraco, delayed only a few days,

until the Illergetians had paid the fine demanded of

them. Then, with some troops lightly equipped, he

followed Marcius, whom he overtook at a small dis­

tance from the ocean.

35. The negotiation, some time before commenced

with Masinissa, had been delayed by various causes:

the Numidian choosing to confer only with Scipio him­

self, and from his hand to receive the ratification of the

compact. This was Scipio's reason for undertaking at

that time so long a journey, and to places so distant

from his quarters. When Masinissa received notice at

Gades from Marcius that he was drawing nigh, com­

plaining that his horses were injured by being pent up

in the island; that they not only caused a scarcity of

every thing among the men, but felt it themselves;

and besides that the horsemen were losing their spirits

through want of exercise; he prevailed on Mago to

allow him to pass over to the continent, to plunder the

adjacent country of the Spaniards. On landing he

sent forward three chiefs of the Nuniidians, to fix a

time and place for a conference, desiring that two of

them might be detained by Scipio as hostages, and the

third sent back to conduct him to the place appointed.

They came to the conference with but few attendants;

the Numidian had long been possessed with admiration

of the man he was about to meet, from the fame of his

exploits, and had formed a perfect idea of the grandeur

and dignity of his person. But on seeing him, his

veneration increased; for the elegance of his appear­

ance, naturally majestic, was added to by his flowing

hair, and by his becoming dress, not decorated with

ornaments, but in a style truly manly and military;

by his age also, as he was in full vigor, aided by the

bloom of youth, renewed as it were after his late ill­

ness. At their meeting, the Numidian, struck with a

degree of astonishment, first ' thanked him for having

sent home his brother's son; assured him that ever

since the transaction he had sought for the present op­

portunity, which being at length offered Ly the favor

