HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXXI. 351

Lucius Villius Tappulus, and Cneius Baebius Tam-

philus.

50. During that year provisions were remarkably

cheap. The curule ediles, Marcus Claudius Marcel-

lus and Sextus jElius Paetus, distributed among the

people a vast quantity of corn brought from Africa, at

the rate of two asses a peck. They also celebrated the

Roman games in a magnificent manner, repeating them

a second day; and erected in the treasury five brazen

statues out of the money paid as fines. The plebeian

games were thrice repeated intire, by the ediles, Lu­

cius Terentius Massa, and Cneius Baebius Tamphilus,

who was elected pretor. There were also funeral games

exhibited that year in the forum for the space of four

days, on occasion of the death of Marcus Valerius

Lajvinus, by his sons Publius and Marcus, who gave

also a show of gladiators, in which twenty-five pairs

fought. Marcus Aurelius Cotta, one of the ten com­

missioners for keeping the books of the Sibyl, died,

and Manius Acilius Glabrio was substituted in his

room. It happened that both the curule ediles, lately

chosen, were persons who could not immediately un­

dertake the office: for Caius Cornelius Cethegus was

absent when he was elected, being then commander in

Spain; and Caius Valerius Flaccus, who was present,

being flamen Dialis, could not take the oath of ob­

serving the laws; and no person was allowed to hold

any office longer than five days without taking the.

oath. Flaccus petitioned to be excused from comply­

ing with the law, on which the senate decreed that if

the edile produced a person approved of by the con­

suls, who would take the oath for him, the consuls, if

they thought proper, should make application to the

tribunes, that it might be proposed to the people. Lu­

cius Valerius Flaccus, pretor elect, was produced to

swear for his brother. The tribunes proposed to the

commons, and the commons ordered that this should

be as effectual as if the edile himself had sworn. With

regard to the other edile, likewise, an order of the

commons was made. On the tribunes putting the

