314 LIVY.

parts with great slaughter, the Gauls quickly turned

their backs, and fled to their camp in hurry and con足

fusion. The cavalry pursued them; and the legions,

coming up in a short time after, assaulted the camp,

from whence there did not escape so many as six

thousand men. There were slain and taken above

thirty-five thousand, with eighty standards, and above

two hundred Gallic waggons laden with booty of all

kinds. Hamilcar, the Carthaginian general, fell that

day, and three distinguished generals of the Gauls.

The prisoners taken at Placentia, to the number of

two thousand free men, were restored to the colony.

22. This was an important victory, and caused great

joy at Rome. On receipt of the pretor's letter, a sup足

plication for three days was decreed. In that battle

there fell of the Romans and allies two thousand, most

of them in the right brigade, against which, in the first

onset, the most violent efforts of the enemy had been

directed. Although the pretor had brought the war

almost to a conclusion, yet the consul, Cneius Aure-

lius, having finished the business which required his

attendance at Rome, set out for Gaul, and received

the victorious army from the pretor. The other con足

sul arriving in his province towards the end of autumn,

passed the winter in the neighborhood of Apollonia.

Caius Claudius, and the Roman triremes which had

been sent to Athens from the fleet that was laid up at

Corcyra, as was mentioned above, arriving at Piraeus,

greatly revived the hopes of their allies, who were be足

ginning to give way to despair. Their arrival not only

put a stop to the inroads by land, which used to be

made from Corinth through Megara, but so terrified

the pirates from Chalcis, who had been accustomed to

infest both the Athenian sea and coast, that they dared

not venture round the promontory of Sunium, nor even

trust themselves out of the straits of the Euripus. In

addition to these came three quadriremes from Rhodes,

the Athenians having three open ships, which they had

equipped for the protection of their lands on the coast.

While Claudius thought, that if he were able with his

