HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXVII. 81

ground in various places, leaving the standards thinly

attended. Hasdrubal, until daylight should discover

a road, ordered the army to proceed along the bank of

the river; and as he wandered along the turnings and

windings, with which that river remarkably abounds,

he made but little progress; still intending, however,

to cross it, as soon as the day enabled him to find a

convenient passage. But the farther he removed from

the sea the higher did he find the banks; so that not

meeting with a ford, and wasting the day in the search,

he gave the enemy time to overtake him.

48. First, Nero, with all the cavalry, came up; then

Porcius, with the light infantry. While they harassed

his wearied army by frequent assaults on every side, and

while the Carthaginian, now stopping his march, or

rather flight, had a mind to encamp on a high spot of

ground, on the bank of the river, Livius arrived with the

main body of infantry armed, and marshalled for imme­

diate action. When the Romans had united all their

forces, and the line was drawn out in array, Claudius

took the command of the right wing, Livius of the left;

that of the centre was given to the pretor. Hasdrubal,

laying aside the design of fortifying a camp, when he

saw the necessity of fighting, placed his elephants in

front, before the battalions, and, beside them, on the

left wing, he opposed the Gauls to Claudius; not that

he had much confidence in them, but thinking that

they were much dreaded by the enemy. The right

- wing, which was to oppose Livius, he took to himself,  
together with the Spaniards; on whom, as being vete­

ran troops, he placed his principal reliance. The Li-

gurians were posted in the centre, behind the elephants;

but the line was too long in proportion to its depth.

A rising ground in their front protected the Gauls;

and while that part of the line which was composed of

the Spaniards engaged the left wing of the Romans,

their right wing stretching out beyond the extent of

the fight, stood idle; for the eminence between them

and the enemy prevented their making an attack either

on their front or flank. Between Livius and Hasdru-

liv. vol. v. F

