52 LIVY.

himself, with his own legions, set out for Capua, being

scarcely able to endure the motion of a litter, his

wounds were so very painful. But he first despatched

a letter to Rome, with an account of Marcellus' death,

and of his own dangerous situation. 'It was not in his

power,' he said, 'to go to Rome to attend the elec­

tions, because he was sure he should not be able to

hear the fatigue of the journey; and besides, that he

was uneasy about Tarentum, lest Hannibal might march

thither from Bruttium. It was therefore necessary that

some persons should be commissioned to come to him

in his quarters, men of prudence, to whom he could

with freedom speak his thoughts on the present state

of affairs.' The reading of this letter caused great

sorrow for the death of one consul, and apprehensions

for the safety of the other. The senate therefore sent

Quintus Fabius the younger to Venusia, to take the

command of the army there; and deputed three per­

sons to wait on the consul, Sextus Julius Caesar, Lu­

cius Licinius Pollio, and Lucius Cincius Alimentus,

who had a few days before come home from Sicily.

These were ordered to deliver a message to the con­

sul, that if he could not come himself to Rome, to hold

the elections, he would, within the Roman territories,

nominate a dictator for that purpose; and directions

were given, that in case the consul should have gone

to Tarentum, then Quintus Claudius, the pretor, should

lead the army from its present quarters into that part

of the country where he could afford protection to the

greatest number of the cities of the allies. In the

course of this summer Marcus Valerius passed from

Sicily to Africa with a fleet of one hundred sail; and,

making a descent near the city of Clupea, ravaged the

country to a great extent, meeting scarcely any one in

arms. After which, the troops employed in these de­

predations made a hasty retreat to their ships, in con­

sequence of a sudden report that the Carthaginian fleet

was approaching. This fleet consisted of eighty-three

ships, with which the Roman commander came to an

engagement not far from Clupea, and gained a com-

