HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXVIII. 93

motion; and that some of the Thracians, particularly

the Maedians, would certainly make incursions into

the adjoining provinces of Macedonia, if the king

should be employed in a distant war. The Boeotians,

indeed, and the people of the inland parts of Greece,

informed him that, in order to prevent them from pass­

ing to the assistance of the allied states, the straits of

Thermopylae, where the road is confined, and con­

tracted to a very narrow breadth, had been shut up by

the jEtolians with a ditch and a rampart. Sueh a

number of disturbances on all sides were sufficient to

rouse even an indolent leader: he dismissed the am­

bassadors with promises of assisting them all, as time

and circumstances would permit. He sent to Pepare-

thus a garrison for the city; a business which required

the utmost dispatch, accounts having been received

from thence that Attains had sailed over from Lemnos,

and was ravaging all the country round. He de­

spatched Polyphantas, with a small number of forces,

to Boeotia; and likewise Menippus, one of the officers

of his guards, with one thousand targeteers, (the target

is not unlike the common buckler,) to Chalcis. Agria-

num was reinforced with five hundred men, that all

parts of the island might be secured. He himself went

to Scotussa, ordering the Macedonian troops to be

brought over thither from Larissa. He was there in­

formed that the /Etolians had been summoned to an

assembly at Heraclea, and that king Attalus was to

come to consult with them on the conduct of the war.

Resolving to disturb this meeting by his sudden ap­

proach, he led his army by forced marches to Hera­

clea, and arrived there just after the assembly had

been dismissed. However, he destroyed the crops,

which were almost ripe, particularly round the jEnian

bay. He then led back his forces to Scotussa, and,

leaving there the body of his army, retired with the

royal guards to Demetrias. That he might be in rea­

diness to meet every effort of the enemy, he sent peo­

ple from hence to Phocis,and Euboea, and Peparethus,

to choose out eleyated situations, where fires being

