HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXXII. 365

troops should march by night, (the moon shining

through the whole of it,) and employ the day in taking

food and rest. The most liberal promises were made

to the guide, provided he fulfilled his engagement; he

bound him, nevertheless, and delivered him to the tri­

bune. Having thus sent off this detachment, the Ro­

man general exerted redoubled vigor in every part to

make himself master of the posts of the enemy.

12. On the third day the Roman party made the sig­

nal by smoke to notify that they had gained possession

of the eminence to which they had been directed; and

then the consul, dividing his forces into three parts,

marched up with the main strength of his army

through a valley in the middle, and made the wings

on right and left advance to the camp of the enemy.

Nor did these betray any want of spirit, but came out

briskly to meet him. The Roman soldiers, in the ar­

dor of their courage, long maintained the fight on the

outside of their works, for they had no small superiority

in bravery, in skill, and in the nature of their arms;

but when the king's troops, after many of them were

wounded and slain, retreated into places secured either

by intrenchments or situation, the danger reverted on

the Romans, who pushed forward, inconsiderately, into

disadvantageous grounds and defiles, out of which a

retreat was difficult. Nor would they have extricated

themselves without suffering for their rashness, had

not the Macedonians first, by a shout heard in their

rear, and then by an attack begun on that quarter,

been utterly dismayed and confounded at the un-

thought-of danger. Some betook themselves to a

hasty flight; some keeping their stand, rather because

they could find no way for flight, than that they pos­

sessed spirit to support the engagement, were cut off

by the Romans, who pressed them hard both on front

and rear. Their army might have been intirely de­

stroyed had the victors continued their pursuit of the

fugitives; but the cavalry were obstructed by the nar­

rowness of the passes and the ruggedness of the

ground; and the infantry by the weight of their ar-

