HISTORY OF ROME,—BOOK XXVII. 61

with ropes to such a height, that men might come'in

without stooping. Scarcely was the passage suffi­

ciently opened, when the deserters rushed in eagerly

through the gate; and, when about six hundred had

entered, the rope by which it was kept suspended be­

ing loosened, the portcullis fell down with a great

noise. Part of the Salapians now attacked the de­

serters, who, as if among friends, carried their arms

carelessly on their shoulders, as on a march; while the

rest, from the tower adjoining- the gate and from the

walls, beat off the enemy with stones, and pikes, and

javelins. Thus Hannibal, ensnared by an artifice wor­

thy of himself, was obliged to retire, and went thence

to raise the siege of Locri, which Cincius was pushing

forward with the utmost vigor, having constructed va­

rious works, and being supplied with engines of every

kind from Sicily. Mago, who almost despaired pf being

able to hold out and maintain the defence of the city,

received the first gleam of returning hope from the news

of Marcellus' death. This was soon followed by an ex­

press, acquainting him that Hannibal, having sent for­

ward the Numidian cavalry, was hastening after, at

the head of the main body of infantry, with all the

speed he could make. As soon, therefore, as he un­

derstood, by signals made from the watch-towers, that

the Numidians were drawing nigh, he with his own

forces, suddenly throwing open a gate, rushed out fu­

riously on the besiegers. The suddenness of his

attack, rather than inequality of strength, at first made

the dispute doubtful; but afterwards, when the Numi­

dians came up, the Romans were struck with such dis­

may, that they fled in confusion towards the sea and

their ships, leaving behind their works and machines

which they used in battering the walls. In this man­

ner did the approach of Hannibal raise the siege of

Locri.

29. When Crispinus learned that Hannibal had gone

into Bruttium, he ordered Marcus Marcellus, military

tribune, to lead away to Venusia the army which had

beeo under the command of his colleague; and he

