394 LI VY.

power to give matters a turn towards war, in case he

remained in the province, or towards peace, if he were

to be removed. They chose for the meeting a part of

the sea-shore, in the Malian gulf, near Nicasa. Thi­

ther Philip came from Demetrias, with five barks and

one ship of war: he was accompanied by some princi­

pal Macedonians, and an Acheean exile, named Cycli-

ades, a man of considerable note. With the Roman

general Were king Amynander, Dionysidorus, ambas­

sador from king Attalus, Agesimbrotus, commander of

the Rhodian fleet, Phaeneas, pretor of the jEtolians, and

two Achaeans, Aristaenus and Xenophon. Attended

by these, the Roman general advanced to the brink of

the shore, and the king came forward to the prow of

his vessel, as it lay at anchor; when the former said,

'If you will come on the shore we shall converse with

greater ease.' This the king refused; and on Quin-

tius asking him, ' Whom do you fear?' With the

haughty spirit of royalty, he replied, 'Fear I have

none, but of the immortal gods; but I have no confi­

dence in the faith of those whom I see about you, and

least of all in the Jitolians.'—' That danger,' said the

Roman, ' is equal in all cases; when men confer with

an enemy, no confidence subsists.'—' But, Titus Quin-

tius,' replied the king, 'if treachery be intended, the

prizes of perfidy are not equal: Philip and Phwneas.

For it will not be so difficult for the jEtolians to find

another pretor, as for the Macedonians to find another

king in my place/—Silence then ensued.

33. The Roman expected that he who solicited the

conference, should open it; and the king thought that

he who was to prescribe, not he who received terms

of peace, ought to begin the conference. At length

the Roman said that ' his discourse should be very

simple; for he would only mention those articles,

without which no pacification could be admitted.

These were that the king should withdraw his garri­

sons from all the cities of Greece. That he should

deliver up to the allies of the Roman people the pri­

soners and deserters; should restore to the Romans

