120 UVY.

exhibit a show of gladiators, which he had prepared in

commemoration of the death of his father and uncle.

The combatants exhibited on this occasion were not of

that sort which the lanistae are wont to procure, a col­

lection of slaves, or such free men as are base enough

to set their blood to sale. Every champion here gave

his service voluntarily, and without reward; for some

were sent by the princes of the country to show a spe­

cimen of the bravery natural to their nation; some

declared that they would fight to oblige the general;

some were led by emulation and a desire of supe­

riority to send challenges; and those who were chal­

lenged, from the same motive, did not decline them;

some decided by the sword controversies which they

could not, or would not, determine by arbitration,

having agreed between themselves that the matter in

dispute should be the property of the conqueror. Not

only people of obscure condition, but men of charac­

ter and distinction; Corbis and Orsua, for instance,

cousins-german, having a dispute about the sove­

reignty of a city called Ibis, determined to decide it

with the sword. Corbis had the advantage in regard

to years. The father of Orsua, however, had been last

on the throne, having succeeded to it on the death of

his elder brother. Scipio endeavored to accommodate

the matter by calm discussion, and to assuage their

resentment; but they both affirmed that they had re­

fused to submit it to their common relations, and that

they would have no other judge, neither god nor man,

but Mars. They severally preferred death in fight to

a submission to the other's authority, the elder confi­

dent in his strength, the younger in his activity; and

so determined was their rage, that it was impossible to

reconcile them. They afforded an extraordinary spec­

tacle to the army, and a striking example of the evils oc­

casioned by ambition. The elder, by experience in arms

and superior skill, easily vanquished the ill-managed

valor of the younger. To this exhibition of gladiators

were added funeral games, conducted with as much mag­

nificence as the province and the camp could supply.

