386 LIVY.

son, sent by Philocles to inquire what he meant, he

only answered, standing with his shield held out be­

fore him, that he meant to die in arms in defence of

the city intrusted to his charge. Philocles then or­

dered some Thracians to throw their javelins at him

and his attendants; and they were, every man of them,

slain. Thus notwithstanding the alliance concluded

by the Achaeans with the Romans, two of their cities,

and those of the greatest consequence, Argos and Co­

rinth, were still in the hands of Philip. Such were

the services performed in that campaign by the land

and sea forces of Rome employed in Greece.

20. In Gaul, the consul Sextus jElius did nothing

worth mention, though he had two armies in the pro­

vince; one, which he had retained under their stand­

ards, although it ought to have been disbanded; and

of this, which had served under Lucius Cornelius, pro­

consul, he had given the command to Caius Helvius,

the pretor: the other he had brought with him. He

spent nearly the whole summer in compelling the peo­

ple of Cremona and Placentia to return to their colo­

nies, from whence they had been driven to various

places by the calamities of war. While Gaul, beyond

expectation, remained quiet through the whole year,

an insurrection of the slaves was very near taking

place in the neighborhood of the city. The hostages,

given by the Carthaginians, were kept in custody at

Setia: as they were the children of the principal fa­

milies, they were attended by a great multitude of

slaves; to this number many were added, in conse­

quence of the late African war, and by the Setians

themselves having bought, from among the spoil, se­

veral of those which had been captured. Having con­

spired together, they sent some of their number to en­

gage in the cause their fellows of the country round

Setia, with those at Norba and Circeii. When every

thing was fully prepared, they determined, during the

games which were soon to be solemnised at the first-

mentioned place, to attack the people while intent on

the show, and, putting them to death, to make them-

