LIVY.

posed. These, having now become the majority, pro­

posed the question accordingly, while almost every one

of the states, openly approving the measure, showed

plainly on which side they would vote. Whereon the

Dymaeans, Megalopolitans, with several of the Argives,

rose up, and withdrew from the council; which step

excited neither wonder nor disapprobation: for when,

in the memory of their grandfathers, the Megalopoli­

tans had been expelled their country by the Lacedae­

monians, Antigonus had reinstated them in their native

residence; and, at a later period, when Dymas was

taken and sacked by the Roman troops, Philip ordered

that the inhabitants, wherever they were in servitude,

should be ransomed, and not only restored them to

their liberty but their country. As to the Argives,

besides believing that the royal family of Macedonia

derived its origin from them, the greater part were at­

tached to Philip by personal acts of kindness and fa­

miliar friendship. For these reasons, when the coun­

cil appeared disposed to order an alliance to be con­

cluded with Rome, they withdrew ; and their secession

was readily excused, in consideration of the many and

recent obligations by which they were bound to the

king of Macedon.

23. The rest of the Achaean states, on their opinions

being demanded, ratified, by an immediate decree, the

alliance with Attalus and the Rhodians. That with

the Romans, as it could not be perfected without an

order from the people, they deferred until such time as

they could hear from Rome. For the present, it wa9

resolved, that three ambassadors should be sent to Lu­

cius Quintius; and that the whole force of the Achae-

ans should be brought up to Corinth, which city Quin­

tius, after taking Cenchrea, was then besieging. The

Achaeans accordingly pitched their camp opposite to

the gate that leads to Sicyon. The Romans made

their approaches on the side of the city which faces

Cenchrea; Attalus having drawn his army across the

isthmus, towards Lechssum, the port on the opposite

sea. At first they did not push forward their opera­

