322 LIVY.

28. The war commencing thus brilliantly with this

successful expedition, several petty kings and princes,

whose dominions bordered on Macedonia, came to the

Roman camp: Pleuratus, son of Scerdilsedus and Amy-

nander, king of the Athamanians; and from the Dar-

danians, Bato, son of Longarus. This Longarus had

in his own quarrel supported a war against Demetrius,

father of Philip. To their offers of aid, the consul

answered that he would make use of the assistance of

the Dardanians and of Pleuratus, when he should lead

his troops into Macedonia. To Amynander he allotted

the part of exciting the jEtolians to war. To the am­

bassadors of Attalus (for they also had come at the

same time) he gave directions that the king should

wait at jEgina, where he wintered, for the arrival of

the Roman fleet; and when joined by that, he should,

as before, harass Philip by such enterprises as he

could undertake by sea. To the Rhodians, also, an

embassy was sent, to engage them to contribute their

share towards carrying on the war. Nor was Philip,

who had by this time arrived in Macedonia, remiss in

bis preparations for the campaign. He sent his son

Perseus, then very young, with part of his forces to

block up the pass near Pelagonia, appointing persons

out of the number of his friends to attend him, and

direct his unexperienced age. Sciathus and Pepare-

thus, no inconsiderable cities, he demolished, fearing

they might fall a prey to the enemy's fleet; despatch­

ing at the same time ambassadors to the jEtolians,

lest that restless nation might change sides on the

arrival of the Romans.

29. The assembly of the jEtolians, which they call

Panaetolium, was to meet on a certain day. In order

to be present at this, the king's ambassadors hastened

their journey, and Lucius Furius Purpureo also ar­

rived, being sent in like capacity by the consul. Am­

bassadors from Athens, likewise, came to this assem­

bly. The Macedonians were first heard, as with them

the latest treaty had been made; and they declared

