148 LIVY.

degree of evil beyond what we have endured, in order

that we might preserve our faith towards you inviolate

to the last, yet so highly has your behavior, and that

of your commanders, merited at our hands, that we do

not repent of having exposed ourselves to sufferings.

On our account you undertook the war, and although

it is now the fourteenth year since it began, yet you

still maintain it with such persevering spirit as to en­

danger yourselves, while having often brought the Car­

thaginians to the very brink of ruin. At a time when

you had so grievous a contest to maintain, and with

such an antagonist as Hannibal, you sent your consul

with an army into Spain, to collect as it were what

remained of us after a shipwreck. Publius and Cneius

Cornelius, from the moment of their arrival in the pro­

vince, never ceased to pursue measures favorable to

us and destructive to our enemies. They first of all

regained and gave back to us our city; and sending

persons to search for our countrymen, who had been

sold and dispersed through every part of Spain, they

restored them from slavery to liberty. When, after

experiencing the utmost wretchedness, we were near

being happily settled, your commanders, Publius and

Cneius Cornelius, fell, more to be lamented in some

measure by us even than by you. Then, indeed, it ap­

peared as if we had been called from distant places to

our original residence only that we might be a second

time ruined; only that we might see a second destruc­

tion of our country. That, to accomplish this, there

was no occasion for an army of Carthaginians; we

might be utterly destroyed by our oldest and most

inveterate enemies, the Turdulans, who had also been

the cause of our former calamity. In which conjunc­

ture you speedily, and beyond our expectations, sent

to us this Publius Scipio, the author of our well-being,

the supporter of all our hopes; of whose election to the

consulship our having been eye-witnesses, and our

being able to carry home the joyful news to our coun­

trymen, render us the happiest of the Saguntines.

He, having taken a great number of the towns of your

