90 LIVY.

tedious if not difficult work, he marched hack his army.

Unwilling, however, to leave the possession of all that

country to the Carthaginians, he sent his brother, Lu­

cius Scipio, with ten thousand foot and one thousand

horse, to lay siege to the most considerable city in

those parts, called by the barbarians Orinx, situate on

the borders of the Milesians, a Spanish nation so

called—a desirable spot, the adjacent parts affording

mines of silver, and the soil being fruitful. This place

served Hasdrubal as a fortress, whence he used to

make incursions on the states around. Scipio en­

camped near to it. Before raising his works of cir-

cumvallation, however, he sent some persons to the

gates to try the disposition of the inhabitants in a con­

ference, and to recommend to them rather to make

trial of the friendship than the power of the Romans.

As their answers showed no inclination to peace, he

surrounded the city with a trench and a double ram­

part; breaking his army into three parts, in order that

one division might always carry on the attack while

the other two rested. When the first of these began

the assault, the contest was furious and desperate: it

was with the greatest difficulty that they could ap­

proach, or bring up the ladders to the walls, on ac­

count of the showers of weapons which fell on them;

and even of those who had raised them, some were

tumbled down with forks made for the purpose, others

found themselves in danger of being caught by iron

grapples, and of being dragged up on the wall. When

Scipio saw that his men were too few to make an im­

pression, and that the enemy, from the advantage of

their works, had even the better of the dispute, he

called off the first division, and attacked with the two

others at once. This struck such terror into the be­

sieged, already fatigued, that not only the townsmen

quickly forsook the walls, but the Carthaginian gar­

rison, fearing that the town had been betrayed, like­

wise left their posts and collected themselves into a

body. The inhabitants, on this, were seized with ap­

prehensions lest the enemy, if they broke into the

