3o4 LIVY.

of the proper standard, and that on the assay it wanted

a fourth part, they borrowed money at Rome, and

made up the deficiency. On their requesting that the

senate would be pleased to order their hostages to be

restored to them, a hundred were given up, with as­

surances in regard to the rest, if they continued to ob­

serve the treaty. They then farther requested, that

the remaining hostages might be removed from Norba,

where they were ill accommodated, to some other place,

and they were permitted to remove to Signia and Fe-

rentinum. The request of the people of Gades was

likewise complied with: that a governor should not be

sent to their city; being contrary to their stipulation

with Lucius Marcius Septimus, when they came under

the protection of the Roman people. Deputies from

Narnia, complaining that they had not their due num­

ber of settlers, and that several who were not of their

community had crept in among them, and assumed the

privileges of colonists, Lucius Cornelius, consul, was

ordered to appoint three commissioners to adjust those

matters. The three appointed werePublius and Sextus

jElius, both surnamed Paetus; and Caius Cornelius

Lentulus. The favor granted to the Narnians, of fill­

ing up their number of colonists, was refused to the

people of Cossa, who applied for it.

3. The consuls, having finished the business that

was to be done at Rome, set out for their provinces.

Publius Villius, on coming into Macedonia, found the

soldiers in a violent mutiny, signs of which had ap­

peared some time before. There were two thousand

concerned in it. These troops, after Hannibal was

vanquished, had been transported from Africa to Si­

cily, and in about a year after, into Macedonia, as vo­

lunteers: they denied, however, that this was done

with their consent, affirming, that they had been put

on board the ships by the tribunes, contrary to their

remonstrances; but, in what manner soever they had

become engaged in that service, whether by compul­

sion or not, the time of it was now expired, and it was

reasonable that some end should be put to their toils.

For many years they had not seen Italy, but had grown

