HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXX. 239

ness; then halted, disconcerted somewhat by this new

manner of fighting; at last, they not only gave way to

the infantry, but did not dare to withstand even the

horse, emboldened as they were by the support of the

foot. And now the battalions also of the legions ap­

proached, when the Masaesylians, so far from daring

to meet their first attack, could not support even the

sight of their engines and arms; so strongly were they

affected, either by the recollection of their former ca­

lamities, or by the present danger. At this juncture

Syphax, galloping up to try if, either by shame or by

the danger to which he was exposed, he could stop the

flight of his men, being thrown from his horse, which

was grievously wounded, was overpowered and taken,

and dragged alive to Laelius ;—a sight grateful to Ma-

sinissa above all others. To Cirtha, the capital of

Syphax's kingdom, a vast multitude fled. The num­

ber of slain in that battle was less than in proportion

to the greatness of the victory, because the cavalry

only had been engaged. Not more than five thousand

were killed; less than half that number taken, in an

attack on their camp, to which the multitude had re­

tired in dismay at the loss of their king. r

12. Masinissa declared that ' nothing could be more

highly gratifying to him, now that he was victorious,

after so long a struggle, than to revisit his paternal

kingdom: but that the present happy situation of bis

affairs required activity, as much as his former mis­

fortunes. If Laelius would permit him to go on before

him to Cirtha, with the cavalry, and Syphax as his

prisoner, he would strike such terror, while the enemy

were in confusion and dismay, as would crush all oppo­

sition; and that Laslius might follow with the infantry

by easy marches.' Laslius assenting, he went forward

to Cirtha, and ordered the principal inhabitants to be

invited to a conference. But, as they were ignorant of

their king's misfortune, neither his relation of what

had passed, nor his threats, nor persuasions, wrought

any effect, until Syphax was produced to their view in

chains. This shocking sight excited a general lamen­

