HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXVIII. 91

town, should put to the sword every one they met

without distinction, whether Carthaginian or Spaniard.

They instantly, therefore, threw open one of the gates,

and rushed out of the town in crowds, holding their

shields before them, lest any weapons should be cast

at them, and stretching out their right hands expanded,

to show that they had thrown away their swords.

Whether this latter circumstance was unobserved on.

account of the distance, or whether some stratagem

was suspected, is uncertain; but the deserters were

attacked as enemies, and put to death. Through this

gate the troops marched into the city in hostile array.

The other gates were broken open with axes and

sledges, and as soon as the horsemen entered, they

gallopped forward to secure the forum, for such were

the orders; the veterans also were joined to the horse

to support them. The legionary soldiers spread them­

selves all over the city, but neither slew nor plundered

any, except those who stood on their defence. All the

Carthaginians were put into confinement, with above

three hundred of the inhabitants who had shut the

gates; the rest had the town delivered up to them,

and their effects restored. There fell in the assault,

of the enemy, about two thousand; of the Romans,

not more than ninety.

4. As the capture of this city afforded matter of

much exultation to those engaged in it, so it rendered

their approach to the camp a magnificent spectacle to

the general and the rest of the army, on account of the

immense crowd of prisoners which they drove before

them. Scipio having declared his approbation of his

brother's conduct, and in the highest strains extolled

his taking of Orinx as equal to his own taking of Car­

thage, led back his forces into Hither Spain. The

approach of winter put it out of his power either to

make an attempt on Gades, or to pursue the army of

Hasdrubal, now dispersed in all parts of the province.

Dismissing therefore the legions to their winter quar­

ters, and sending his brother Lucius Scipio with Hanno,

the enemy's general, and other prisoners of distinction,

