246 livy.

crown ; and on others of the military he conferred gifts

suitable to the services which they had performed. By

these honors conferred on him, the king's mind was

soothed, and encouraged to hope that he should soon

be in possession of the whole extent of Numidia, now

that Syphax was removed out of his way.

• 16. Scipio, sending Caius Laelius, with Syphax and

the other prisoners, to Rome, with whom went also

ambassadors from Masinissa, led back his troops to

Tunes, and completed the fortifications which he had

begun some time before. The Carthaginians, who had

been filled with a short-lived joy, on account of their

success in the attack on the Roman fleet (and which in

their then circumstances they had considered as im­

portant), on hearing of the capture of Syphax, in whom

they had placed more of their hopes than in Hasdrubal

and their own army, were struck with dismay, and

would listen no longer to any who advised to continue

the war; but sent, as their agents to sue for peace,

thirty of the principal elders. These.compose the as­

sembly of the highest dignity among them, having the

principal control over the senate itself. Arriving at

the general's tent, they prostrated themselves, like

those who humbly fawn on kings, having learned that

mode, I suppose, from the country whence they de­

rived their origin. Their discourse was suitable to

such servile adulation, not attempting to apologise for

their conduct, but transferring the blame on Hannibal,

and the favorers of his violent measures. They im­

plored pardon for their state, which bad been twice

ruined by the rashness of its citizens, and would a

second time be indebted for its restoration to the

generosity of an enemy: they observed that ' the Ro­

man people sought dominion over the conquered, not

their destruction; and declared themselves ready to

pay implicit obedience to any commands which their!

subjugators should be pleased to impose.' Scipio told

them that ' he had come into Africa with the expecta-i

tion, which had been farther encouraged by the happy

fortune of his army, of carrying home conquest, no|

