HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXVIII. 145

Cimbis at a little distance, and from thence sent am­

bassadors, complaining of their having shut their gates

against an ally and friend. While they apologised for

this act, alleging that it had been done by a part of the

multitude, who were offended because some of their

effects had been carried off by the soldiers when they

were embarking, he enticed their suffetes,i which is the

name of the chief magistracy among the Carthaginians,

and their treasurer to a conference; and then ordered

them to be crucified, after they had been mangled with

stripes. From thence he sailed to the island Pityusa,3

about one hundred miles from the continent, inhabited

at that time by Carthaginians, where the fleet was re­

ceived in a friendly manner, and supplied not only

with abundance of provisions, but with a reinforce­

ment of young men and arms. Emboldened by these

succors, the Carthaginian proceeded to the Balearic

islands, about fifty miles distant. There are two of the

Baleares ;3 one larger and more powerful in men and

arms than the other, and which has also a harbor,

where he believed he might pass the winter commodi-

ously, as it was now the latter end of autumn. But

here he met with an opposition as violent as if the in­

habitants of that island had been Romans. As they

now mostly use slings, so at that time these were their

only weapons; in the skilful use of which the Balea-

i These were two magistrates chosen annually, and invested

with power similar to those of the Roman consuls. The Car­

thaginians had a senate also like that of the Romans. There

was one peculiarity in their proceedings which deserves no­

tice: when the members were unanimous, there was no ap­

peal from their decision; hut when opinions were divided,

the business devolved to the community at large. For a very

long time the people interfered but little with the administra­

tion of public affairs; but afterwards, by means of factions

and cabals, they almost intirely engrossed it to themselies,

which proved a principal cause of their ruin. They had a

council consisting of one hundred and four members, called

the tribunal of the hundred, to which the commanders of

armies were responsible for their conduct.

* Iviea. 3 Majorca and Minorca.

1IV. VOL. V. K

