HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXXII. 375,

etice. Now the minds of the Achwans labored with a

complication of difficulties. They feared the Lacedae­

monians, their constant and inveterate enemies; they

dreaded the arms of the Romans; they were under

obligations to the Macedonians, for services both of

ancient and of recent date; but the king himself, on

account of his perfidy and cruelty, they looked on with

jealous fear, and not judging from the behavior which

he then assumed for the time, they knew that, on the

conclusion of the war, they should find him a more

tyrannic master. So that every one of them was not

only at a loss what opinion he should support in the

senate of his own particular state, or in the general

diets of the nation; but, even when they deliberated

within themselves, they could not with any certainty

determine what they ought to wish, or what to prefer.

Such was the unsettled state of mind of the members

of the assembly when the ambassadors were intro­

duced to audience. The Roman ambassador, Lucius

Calpurnius, spoke first; next the ambassadors of king

Attalus; after them, those of the Rhodians; and then

Philip's. The Athenians were heard the last, that

they might refute the discourses of the Macedonians.

These inveighed against the king with the greatest

acrimony of any, for no others had suffered from him

so many and so severe hardships. So great a number

of speeches succeeding each other, took up the whole

of the day; and about sunset the council was ad­

journed.

20. Next day the council met again; and when the

magistrates, according to the custom of the Greeks,

gave leave, by their herald, to any person who chose

to deliver his sentiments, not one stood forth; but.

they sat a long time, looking on each other in silence.

It was no wonder that men, revolving in their minds

matters of such contradictory natures, and who found

themselves puzzled and confounded, should be involved

in additional perplexity by the speeches continued

through the whole preceding day; in which the diffi­

culties, on all sides, were brought into view, and stated

