HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXIX. 181

to humanity, after having cruelly abused his lictors,

they assaulted the general himself; and having sur­

rounded and separated him from his party, they dread­

fully mangled him, cutting off his nose and ears, and

leaving him almost without life. Accounts of these

transactions being carried to Messana, Scipio, a few

days after, sailed over to Locri in a ship of six banks

of oars; and having brought Pleminius and the tri­

bunes to trial before him, he acquitted Pleminius, and

continued him in the command of the place; adjudged

the tribunes guilty, and threw them into chains, that

they might be sent to Rome to the senate: he then re­

turned to Messana, and went from thence to Syracuse.

Pleminius, giving a loose to his rage, because he

thought that the injury done him had been treated too

lightly by Scipio, and that no other person was quali­

fied to rate the penalty in such a case but he who had

suffered the wrong, ordered the tribunes to be dragged

before him. After having made them undergo the ut­

most degree of torture which the human body is ca­

pable of enduring, he put them to death; and not sa­

tisfied with the punishment thus inflicted, he cast them

out without burial. The like cruelty he used towards

the chiefs of the Locrensians, who, as he heard, had

complained to Scipio of the treatment they had re­

ceived at his hands. But the extreme severities which

he had formerly practised on those allies through lust

and avarice, he now multiplied through rage and re­

sentment, bringing infamy and detestation not only on

himself, but on the general also.

10. The time of the elections was now drawing near,

when a letter was brought to Rome from Publius Lici-

nius the consul, stating that 'he and his army were

afflicted with a grievous sickness, and that they could

not have stood their ground had not the disorder at­

tacked the enemy with the same or even greater vio­

lence. As therefore he could not come to the elec­

tions, he would, if the fathers approved of it, nominate

Quintus Ccccilius Metellus, dictator, for the purpose

of holding them. That it was for the interest of the

