156 LIVY.

has sailed over from the Baleares, and is now cruising

on the coast of the Alpine Ligurians) to join his forces

to those of Hannibal? We should then be seized with

the same terror which we felt lately, on hearing of the

approach of Hasdrubal, and whom you, (who are to

shut up with your army, not only Carthage, but all

Africa,) allowed to slip through your hands into Italy.

You will say that he was defeated by you: the less,

for that very reason, can I wish that be should be per­

mitted, after being defeated, to march into this coun­

try; and that, not only on the account of the public,

but your own also. Allow us to ascribe to your good

conduct all those events in your province which were

favorable to you and to the state, and to impute such

as were unfavorable to fortune, and to the chances of

war. The more merit and bravery you possess, the

more is your country and all Italy concerned to keep

at home so powerful a protector. You cannot but ac-

knowlege that wherever Hannibal is, there the main

stress and head of the present war must be looked for:

yet the reason you give for passing over into Africa is,

that you may draw Hannibal thither. Whether the

Carthaginians, therefore, be in this country or in that,

your business is to oppose him. Now, I pray you,

whether will you be better able to cope with him

in Africa, where you are to stand alone, or here,

with the army of your colleague joined to your own?

Is not the importance of this consideration sufficiently

evinced by the recent fate of the consuls Claudius and

Livius? What! is Hannibal to be feared here, as re­

ceiving an augmentation of men and arms from the re­

motest corner of the country of Bruttium, (and which

he in vain solicits from home,) or with Carthage at his

back, and all Africa confederated with him? What

is this plan of choosing to fight there, where your

forces must be less by half, and those of the enemy

considerably greater, rather than here, at the head of

two armies against one, and that one impaired in

strength by so many battles, and by such long and la­

borious service? Consider well how far this plan of

