HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXVII. 69

considered not only how tedious the siege of a city is,

but also how ineffectually he himself, going back vic­

torious from the Trebia, .had attempted that same

colony.

40. The consuls, taking different routes, when setting

out to open the campaign, drew the anxiety of the pub­

lic in opposite directions, as if to two distinct wars at

once; for, besides their recollection of the heavy cala­

mities which Hannibal's first coming had brought on

Italy, people were farther distressed by doubts of the

issue. 'What gods,' said they to themselves, ' would

be so propitious to the city, and to the empire, as to

grant success to their arms in both quarters at the same

time? Hitherto the business had been protracted by a

counterpoise of successes and misfortunes. When in

Italy, at the Thrasymenus and Cannae, the Roman power

had been crushed to the earth, a number of successful

efforts in Spain had raised it up from its fallen state:

when afterwards, in Spain, a succession of defeats, in

which two excellent commanders were lost, had, in a

great measure, ruined the two armies, the many ad­

vantages gained by the Roman arms in Italy and Si­

cily had afforded shelter to the shattered vessel of the

state. Besides, even the distance of place, one war

being then carried on in the remotest extremity of the

world, allowed room to breathe: but now, two wars

had penetrated into the very heart of Italy; two com­

manders, of the most distinguished reputation, stood

on the opposite sides of the city of Rome; and the

whole mass of danger, the intire burden, pressed on

one spot. Whichever of these commanders should

first gain a battle, he would, in a few days after, join

his camp with the other.' The preceding year, also,

having been saddened by the deaths of the two consuls,

served to augment the general apprehensions. Such

were the melancholy forebodings which perplexed the

minds of the people, as they escorted the commanders

on their departure to their provinces. Historians have

mentioned, that Marcus Livius, when setting out for

the campaign, being still full of resentment against his

>

