HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXVII. 39

rose higher every day. The taking of Tarentum, though

effected by artifice rather than by courage, yet gave

some degree of glory to Fabius. The lustre of Fulvius'

character began to fade. Marcellus was even spoken

of with displeasure, because, besides the failure in his

first battle, he had in the middle of summer, while

Hannibal was carrying his excursions through various

parts of Italy, drawn off his army to Venusia, to lodge

them in houses. He had a bitter enemy in Caius Pub-

lius Bibulus, a plebeian tribune: this man, ever since

the battle which proved unfortunate, had, in frequent

harangues, represented Claudius in a dishonorable

light, endeavoring to render him odious to the com­

mons; and he now proposed to deprive him of the

command. The friends of Claudius nevertheless pro­

cured an order that Marcellus, leaving at Venusia a

lieutenant-general, should come home to Rome, to

clear himself of those charges, on which his enemies

fouuded the resolutions which they proposed; and

that, during his absence, no step should be taken to­

wards divesting him of the command. It so happened

that Marcellus came to Rome to rescue his character

from disgrace, and the consul Quintus Fulvius to hold

the elections at the same time.

21. The business respecting Marcellus' commission

was debated in the Flaminian circus, amidst a vast

concourse of plebeians, and people of all ranks. The

tribune of the commons brought forward heavy charges,

not only against Marcellus, but against the whole body

of the nobles. * To their treacherous and dilatory con­

duct,' he said, ' it was owing, that Hannibal now held

possession of Italy, as his province, for the tenth year,

and passed more of his life there than in Carthage.

The Roman people now enjoyed the fruits of continuing

Marcellus in command: his army, after being twice

routed, was spending the summer at Venusia, and

dwelling in houses instead of the camp.' These and

such like invectives of the tribune, Marcellus so tho­

roughly refuted, by a recital of the services which he

had performed, that not only the question concerning

