HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXX. 255

dismissed, accounts were brought, that the Carthagi­

nian ambassadors, who were coming to treat of peace,

had been seen at Puteoli, and would proceed from

thence by land; on which the senate resolved, that

Caius Laelius should be recalled, in order that he might

be present at the proceedings. Quintus Fulvius Gillo,

a lieutenant-general under Scipio, conducted the Car­

thaginians to Rome, but they were forbidden to enter

the city. Apartments were provided for them in the

Villa Publica, and an audience of the senate was

granted them in the temple of Bellona. Their dis­

course was nearly the same with that which they had

made to Scipio, throwing off all the blame of the war

from the community, and laying it on Hannibal. They

affirmed, that ' he had acted contrary to the orders of

the senate, not only in passing the Alps, but even in

crossing the Iberus; and that he had, without any au­

thority from them, made war not only on the Romans,

but before that on the Saguntines; that, if the facts

were duly considered, the senate and people of Car­

thage had, to that day, inviolably observed the treaty

with the Romans. Therefore they had nothing farther

in charge, than to request, that they might be allowed

to abide by the terms of the peace which had been

lately concluded with the consul Lutatius.' The pre-

tor, according to the established custom, giving per­

mission to the senators to make such inquiries of the

ambassadors as any of them thought proper; the older

members, who had been present at the concluding of

the treaties, asked various questions relative to them.

The Carthaginians replied, that they were not of an

age to remember particulars (for almost all of them

were young): on which, the house resounded with ex­

clamations, that Punic faith was evident, in appointing

such men as these to solicit the renewal of a former

peace, with the terms of which they were themselves

unacquainted.

23. The ambassadors being ordered to withdraw,

the senators proceeded to give their opinions. Mar­

cus Livius recommended, that' Cneius Servilius, the

