252 livY.

nian ships which had been dispersed were taken by

the Roman fleet. Such were the occurrences by land

and sea, on that side of Italy nearest to the Alps. The

consul Cneius Servilius performed nothing memo­

rable in Etruria, or in Gaul (for he bad advanced into

that country), except that he rescued from slavery,

which they had endured for sixteen years, his father,

Cains Servilius, and his uncle Caius Lutatius, who

had been taken by the Boians at the village of Tane-

tum. He returned to Rome accompanied by these on

each side of him, distinguished rather by family-

badges than public services. It was proposed to the

people, that ' Cneius Servilius should not be subject

to penalty, for having, contrary to the laws, during

the life of his father (a circumstance of which he was

at that time ignorant), and who sat in the curule chair,

accepted the offices of tribune of the commons, and

plebeian edile;' this being admitted, he returned to

his province. Consentia, Uffugum, Vergae, Besidiae,

Hetriculum, Sypheum, Argentanum, Clampetia, and

many other small states, perceiving that the Cartha­

ginians grew languid in their operations, came over to

Cneius Servilius the consul, then in Bruttium; and

who had fought a battle with Hannibal in the district

of Croton, of which we have no clear account. Va­

lerius Autias says that five thousand of the enemy

were slain. This is a circumstance of such impor­

tance, that either it must be an impudent fiction, or

they were guilty of great negligence who omitted

mentioning it. It is certain that Hannibal made no

farther efforts in Italy, for deputies came to him from

Carthage, recalling him to Africa, nearly at the same

time with Mago.

20. Hannibal is said to have been thrown into the

most violent agitation, and scarcely to have refrained

from shedding tears, on hearing the words of the de­

puties. When they had delivered the orders which

they had in charge, he said,—' Now indeed, they

recall me, not in ambiguous terms, but openly, who

have, for a long time past, been dragging me home,

