88 LIVY.

solving to charge this division first, ordered the troops

to direct their course a great way to the left, so as not

to come within view of the posts of the Carthaginians;

and having despatched scouts before him, he advanced

in a brisk march to attack the enemy.

2. He had arrived within about three miles, and not

one of the enemy had yet descried him; craggy rocks,

interspersed with thick bushes, covered the hills.

Here, in a valley so deep as to be out of the way of

observation, he ordered his men to halt, and take re­

freshment: the scouts in the mean time arrived, con­

firming the intelligence given by the deserters. On

this the Romans, collecting the baggage into the centre,

armed themselves, and moved forward in regular order.

At the distance of a mile they were perceived by the

enemy, among whom their appearance immediately

created much hurry and confusion. On the first shout,

Mago rode up in full speed from his camp. Now there

were, in the Celtiberian army, four thousand targeteers,

and two hundred horsemen: this regular legion (and

it was almost the whole of their strength) he placed in

the first line; the rest, who were lightly armed, he

posted in reserve. While he was leading them out of

the camp in this order, and when they had scarcely got

clear of the rampart, the Romans discharged their

javelins at them ; these the Spaniards stooped to avoid,

and then the enemy rose to discharge their own ; which,

when the Romans, in close array, had received on their

conjoined shields, in their accustomed manner, they

immediately closed foot to foot, and had recourse to

their swards to determine the contest. But the nneven-

ness of the ground, at the same time that it rendered

their agility useless to the Celtiberians, who practise a

desultory method of fighting, was no disadvantage to

the Romans, accustomed to a steady fight, except that

the narrow passes, and the bushes interspersed, dis­

ordered their ranks, and obliged them to engage one

against one, or two against two, as if they had been'

matched for the combat. The same circumstance which

prevented the enemy from flying delivered them up, as.

