HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK. XXVII.

aide of the city facing the east. The trumpets then be­

gan to sound at once, from the citadel, from the port,

and from the ships which had been brought to the shore

on the side next to the open sea. At the same time a

shout was raised, and a prodigious tumult purposely

made, on every side where there was very little danger.

Meanwhile the consul kept his men quiet and silent.

Democrates therefore, who had formerly commanded

the fleet, and who happened now to command there,

perceiving every thing near him quiet, while other

parts resounded with tumult and shouting like that of

a city stormed, fearful lest, while he hesitated, the.

consul might force a passage and march in his troops,

carried off his party to the citadel, because the most

alarming noise proceeded from that quarter. Fabius,

from the length of time, and likewise from the silence

which prevailed, (for where, a little before, there was

an uproar among the men rousing each other, and call­

ing to arms, now not a word was heard.) imagined that

the guard was withdrawn ; he therefore ordered the

ladders to be brought up to that part of the wall

where, according to the information of the contriver of

the plot, the cohort of Bruttians held the guard. In.

this place, favored and assisted by the Bruttians, the

Romans first gained possession of the wall, over which

they climbed into the city; and then the nearest gate

was broken open, that the troops might march through

in a body. These entering the town a little before day,

raised a shout, and without meeting any one in arms,

proceeded to the forum, having drawn on themselves

the attention of the combatants in every quarter, whe­

ther at the citadel or the harbor.

16. At the entrance of the forum a vigorous oppo­

sition was made, but it was not persevered in. A Ta-<

rentine was no match for a Roman, either in spirit, in

arms, in warlike skill, nor yet in vigor or bodily

strength. They only discharged their javelins, and

then, scarcely waiting till the fight began, turned their

backs; and as they were acquainted with the streets

of the city, ran different ways to their own houses, or

