HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXXII. 361

his army and navy in the Macedonian war, then to

send a body of forces to protect his territories; or if

that were not agreeable, to allow him to go home for

that purpose, with his fleet and troops.' The following

answer was ordered to be given to the ambassadors:

that 'the senate retained a due sense of Attalus' friend­

ship, in aiding the Roman commanders with his fleet

and other forces. That they would neither send suc­

cors to Attalus against Antiochus, the ally and friend

of the Roman people, nor would they detain the troops

which he had sent to their assistance, to his inconve­

nience. That it was ever a constant rule with the

Roman people to use the aid of others, so far only as

was agreeable to the will of those who gave it; and

even to leave those who were so inclined at full liberty

to determine when that assistance should commence,

and when it should cease. That they would send am­

bassadors to Antiochus, to represent to him that Atta­

lus, with his fleet and army, were at the present em­

ployed by the Roman people against Philip, their

common enemy; and that they would request Antio­

chus to leave the dominions of Attalus unmolested,

and to refrain from all hostilities; for that it was much

to be wished that kings, who were allies and friends

to the Roman people, should maintain friendship be­

tween themselves also.'

9. When the consul Titus Quintius had finished the

levies, in making which he chose principally such as

had served in Spain or Africa, that is, soldiers of ap­

proved courage, and when hastening to set forward to

his province, he was delayed by reports of prodigies,

and the expiations of them necessary to be performed.

There bad been struck by lightning the public road at

Veii, a temple of Jupiter at Lanuvium, a temple of

Hercules at Ardea, with a wall and towers at Capua;

also the edifice which is called Alba. At Arretium the

sky appeared as on fire; at Velitrae the earth, to the

extent of three acres, sunk down so as to form a vast

chasm. From Suessa Aurunca an account was brought

of a lamb born with two heads; from Sinuessa, of a

