HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXX. 287

having been made prisoners, were still kept so: among

whom some of them had relations and friends, men of

distinction, and to others they had messages from their

relations. After a meeting with their friends, on making

a second request, that liberty might be allowed them

to ransom such of them as they chose, they were or­

dered to give in a list of their names; and when they

had given in about two hundred, a decree of the senate

was passed, that' the Roman ambassadors should carry

two hundred of the prisoners, such as the Carthagi­

nians should select, into Africa, to Publius Cornelius

Scipio, and give him directions, that if peace were

concluded, he should restore them without ransom to

the Carthaginians.' The heralds being ordered to go

to Africa to ratify the treaty, at their desire the senate

passed a decree in these words: that 'they should

carry with them flint stones of their own, and vervain

of their own: that the Roman commander should give

them the order to strike the treaty, and that they

should call on him for the herbs.' This was a kind of

herb brought from the capital, and given to the heralds

on such occasions. The deputies being dismissed from

Rome in this manner, as soon as they came to Scipio

in Africa, concluded a peace on the terms before men­

tioned. The Carthaginians delivered up the ships of

war, elephants, deserters, fugitives, and four thousand

prisoners, among whom was Quintus Terentius Culleo,

a senator. The ships Scipio ordered to be carried

out into the deep, and burned. Some say that they

amounted to five hundred, of all sorts, which were

worked with oars; and that the sudden sight of these

in flames was as great a shock to the Carthaginians, as

if Carthage itself had been set on fire. The deserters

were treated with more severity than the fugitives;

those who were of the Latine confederacy were be­

headed, the Romans were crucified.

44. The last peace with the Carthaginians had been

made forty years before this, in the consulate of Quin­

tus Lutatius and Aulus Manlins. The late war began

twenty-three years after, in the consulate of Publius

