HISTORY OF SOME. BOOK XXX. 253

by refusing me supplies both of men and money. It

is not the Roman people, so often discomfited, and

routed, that has conquered Hannibal, but the Cartha­

ginian senate, through the malicious suggestions of

envy; nor will Scipio exult and pride himself so

much in this my disgraceful retreat, as will Hanno;

who, unable to do it by any other means, has crushed

our family under the ruins of Carthage.' As he had

for some time foreseen this event, he had ships already

prepared: dismissing therefore a useless crowd of

soldiers, under the appearance of garrisons, into the

towns of Bruttium, a few of which adhered to him ra­

ther through fear than affection, he carried over to

Africa such of the troops as were fit for service. A

great number of natives of Italy, refusing to follow

him to Africa, and flying to the sanctuary of Juno

Lacinia, which, till that day, had never been violated,

were barbarously put to death within the walls of the

temple. We are told, that hardly any person ever

showed more grief on leaving his native soil to go into

exile, than Hannibal on his departure from the coun­

try of his enemy; that he often looked back on the

coasts of Italy, inveighing against gods and men, ut­

tering curses on his own head for not having led his

men to Rome, yet reeking with blood from the slaugh­

ter at Cannx: reflecting, with the bitterest vexation,

that Scipio, who since his appointment to the consul­

ship, had not looked in the face of the Carthaginian

enemy in Italy, had yet spirit to go and attack Car­

thage; while he, who had slain a hundred thousand

fighting men at Thrasymenus and Cannae, had suffered

bis strength to moulder away about Casilinum, Cuma?,

and Nola. In the midst of such self-reproaches and com­

plaints, he was forced away from Italy, in which he had

so long maintained a divided power with the Romans.

21. News was brought to Rome at the same time

that both Mago and Hannibal had departed for Africa.

But the exultation of the people was diminished by

the reflection, that the Roman commanders had shown

a want either of spirit or of strength, in not prevent-

