214 LIVY.

routed and dispersed the Massylians. Masinissa fled

from the field, attended only by a few horsemen, to a

mountain which the natives call Balbus. A number of

families with their tents and cattle, which is all their

wealth, followed their king; the rest of the Massy­

lians submitted to Syphax. The mountain of which

the fugitive took possession abounds with grass and

water; and as it was thus well adapted to the grazing of

cattle, it supplied abundance of food to feed men living

on flesh and milk. Excursions from henee were made

through all the neighboring parts; at first secretly and

by night; afterwards openly. The lands of the Car­

thaginians suffered most, because there was greater

plenty of spoil there than among the Numidians, and

it was carried off with less danger. At length they be­

came so bold as to carry down their booty to the sea,

and sell it to merchants, who brought their ships thi­

ther for the purpose; and on these occasions greater

numbers of the Carthaginians were slain and made

prisoners than often happens in a regular engagement.

On this subject the Carthaginians made heavy com­

plaints to Syphax, earnestly pressing him to crush this

remnant of the foe. To this he was himself well in­

clined, but thought it rather beneath the dignity of a

king to pursue a vagrant robber, as he styled him,

through the mountains.

32. Bocchar, a spirited and enterprising general,

was chosen by the Numidian for that employment.

Four thousand foot and two thousand horse were given

him; with a promise of immense reward if he should

bring back the head of Masinissa; or rather if be

should take him alive, for that the latter would be to

him a matter of inexpressible joy. Falling unex­

pectedly on Masinissa's men, when they were scat­

tered about and off their guard, and who were in con­

siderable numbers, he shut them out, together with

their cattle, from the protection of those who were in

arms, driving Masinissa himself, with his few fol­

lowers, to the summit of the mountain. On this, con­

sidering the war as nearly finished, he sent to the king

