308 LIVY.

and the Rhodians pressed Philip vigorously, they might

have acquired the illustrious title of the deliverers of

Greece; hut by suffering him to pass over again into

Hellespontus, and to strengthen himself by seizing the

advantageous posts in Greece, they increased the diffi­

culties of the war, and yielded up to the Romans the

glory of having conducted and finished it.

16. Philip acted with a spirit more becoming a

king; for, though he had found himself unequal to

the forces of Attalus and the Rhodians, yet he was

not dismayed, even by the prospect of an approaching

war with the Romans. Sending Philocles, one of his

generals, with two thousand foot and two hundred

horse to ravage the lands of the Athenians, he gave

the command of his fleet to Heraclides, with orders to

sail to Maronea, and marched thither himself by land,

with two thousand foot lightly equipped, and two

hundred horse. Maronea he took at the first as­

sault; and, afterwards, with a good deal of trouble,

got possession of jEnus, which was at last betrayed to

him by Ganymede, who commanded there for Pto­

lemy. He then seized on other forts, Cypselus, Do-

riscos, and Serrheus; and, advancing from thence to

the Chersonesus, received Elaeus and Alopeconnesus,

which were surrendered by the inhabitants. Callipo-

lis also and Madytos were given up to him, with se­

veral forts of but little consequence. The people of

Abydus shut their gates against him, not suffering

even his ambassadors to enter the place. The siege

of this city detained Philip a long time; and it might

have been relieved, if Attalus and the Rhodians had

acted with any vigor. The king sent only three hun­

dred men for a garrison, and the Rhodians one quadri-

reme from their fleet, although it was lying idle at

Tenedos: and afterwards, when the besieged could

with difficulty hold out any longer, Attalus, going over

in person, did nothing more than show them some

hope of relief being near, giving not any real assist­

ance to these his allies either by land or sea.

17. At first the people of Abydus, by means of

