HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXVII. 21

•the gods gave a person the lot of appointing, they gave

him at the same time full freedom of choice: that he

would act in this case agreeably to his own judgment,

and would name, to the honor contended for, Quintus

Fabius Maximus, whom he could prove to be the first

of the whole Roman state, even in Hannibal's opinion.

After a long dispute his colleague gave up the point,

and Sempronius chose the consul, Quintus Fabius

Maximus, prince of the senate. Then the list of the

new senate was read, in which eight were left out,

among whom was Lucius Caecilius Metellus, infamous

for having, after the defeat at Cannes, advised the

abandonment of Italy. In their review of the eques­

trian order also, they censured every one concerned

with him; but the number disgraced on that account

was very small. From all the cavalry of the legions

of Cannae then in Sicily, and their number was great,

their horses were taken away. To this they added

another punishment in point of time ; ordering that the

campaigns which those men had served on horses given

by the public should not intitle them to release, but

that they should serve during ten others on horses of

their own. They also searched for, and discovered, a

great number, who ought to be ranked in the cavalry;

and all of these who had been seventeen years old at

the beginning of the war, and had not served, they

disfranchised. They then contracted for the repairs

of the buildings round the forum, which had been de­

stroyed by the fire,—seven shops, the shambles, and

the royal palace.

12. Having finished the necessary business at Rome,

the consuls set out for the campaign. Fulvius, first,

went forward to Capua; in a few days after Fabius

followed, and he earnestly intreated his colleague in

person, and Marcellus by letter, to make the most

vigorous efforts to keep Hannibal employed, while he

should carry on the siege of Tarentum; observing

'that, when that city should be taken from the enemy,

who was already repailsed in every quarter, and would

then have no place where ;he conld rest, or to which

