20 LIVY.

out from the city they should expiate several prodigies

which had happened. On the Alban mount a statue

of Jupiter, and a tree, standing near the temple; at

Ostia, a grove; at Capua, a wall, and the temple of

Fortune; and at Sinuessa, a wall and gate, were struck

by lightning. Farther, it was reported that the Alban

water flowed in a bloody stream; that, at Rome, in the

cell of the temple of Fors Fortuna, an image, which

was in the crown of the goddess, fell from her head

into her hands; that an ox spoke at Privernum; that

a vulture, while the forum was crowded, flew down

into one of the shops; and that, at Sinuessa, an infant

was born whose sex was doubtful, such as are com­

monly called in Greek (a language more manageable

than ours, particularly in the compounding of words,)

Androgynes; that a shower of milk fell; and that a

boy was born with the head of an elephant. These

prodigies were expiated with the larger kind of vic­

tims. Orders were given for a supplication to be per­

formed at all the shrines, and prayers to be offered

during one day, for the averting of misfortunes; and

a decree passed that the pretor, Caius Hostilius, should

vow and celebrate the games of Apollo, in like manner

as they had of late years been vowed and celebrated.

At the same time, the consul Quintus Fulvius held an

assembly for the election of censors. The censors

chosen were men who had never yet been consuls,

Marcus Cornelius Cethegus and Publius Sempronius

Tuditanus. By direction of the senate the question

was proposed to the people; and the people ordered

that these, by their censorial authority, should let to

farm the lands of Campania. The choosing of the se­

nate was delayed by a dispute between the censors

about the nomination of the prince of it: the making

the choice had fallen, by lot, to Sempronius; but Cor­

nelius alleged that he ought to observe the practice

handed down from their ancestors, which was to ap­

point as prince the person who in the list of censors

stood the first of any then living, and this was Titus

Manlius Torquatus. Sempronius maintained, that when

