HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXXI. 293

from Sicily, and pass over to Macedonia. Accord­

ingly, Marcus Valerius Laevinus, propretor, was sent;

and, receiving thirty-eight ships from Cneius Octa-

vius, near Vibo, he sailed to Macedonia, where, being

met by Marcus Aurelius, the ambassador, and in­

formed what numerous forces and what large fleets

the king had prepared, and how busily he was em­

ployed in prevailing on divers states to join him,

applying to some in person, to others by agents, not

only through all the cities of the continent, but even in

the islands. Laevinus was convinced from this that

the war required vigorous exertions on the side of the

Romans; for, should they be dilatory, Philip might

be encouraged to attempt an enterprise like to that

which had been formerly undertaken by Pyrrhus, who

possessed not such large dominions. He therefore de­

sired Aurelius to convey this intelligence, by letter,

to the consuls and to the senate.

4. Towards the end of this year the senate, taking

into consideration the lands to be given to the veteran

soldiers, who under the conduct and auspices of Pub-

lius Scipio had finished the war in Africa, decreed

that Marcus Tunius, pretor of the city, should, if he

thought proper, appoint ten commissioners to survey

and distribute among them that part of the Samnite

and Apulian lands which was the property of the Ro­

man people. For this purpose were appointed, Pub-

lius Servilius, Quintus Caecilius Metellus, Caius and

Marcus Servilius, both surnamed Geminus, Lucius

and Aulus Hosfilins Cato, Publius Villius Tappulus,

Marcus Fulvius Flaccus, Publius JElius Partus, and

Quintus Flaminius. At the same time Publius /Elius

presiding at the election of consuls, Publius Sulpicius

Galba and Caius Aurelius Cotta were elected. Then

were chosen pretors, Quintus Minucius Rufus, Lucius

Furius Purpureo, Quintus Fulvius Gillo, Cneius Ser-

gius Plancus. The Roman stage-games were exhi­

bited, in a sumptuous and elegant manner, by the

curule ediles, Lucius Valerius Flaccus and Lucius

Quintius Flaminius, and repeated for two days; and

