130 LIVY.

preme authority and command on the Umbrian Atrins,

and the Calenian Albius. Soldiers, deny that it was

the act of you all, or that you all approved of it:

assert that it was the madness and folly of a few. I

shall willingly give credit to your disavowal; for the

crimes committed are of such a nature, that did the

guilt of them extend to the whole army, it could not

be expiated without very extraordinary atonements.

I unwillingly touch those matters, as I should wounds;

but unless such are touched and handled, they cannot

be cured. After the Carthaginians were expelled from

Spain, I really believed that there was not, in the whole

province, any one place, or any description of men, to

whom my life was not a matter of concern : such had

been my conduct, not only towards the allies, but

even towards the enemy. And yet even in my own

camp, so much was I deceived in my opinion, the re足

port of my death was not only readily believed, but

longed for. Not that I wish this behavior should be

imputed to you all: I assure you, if I could believe

that my whole army wished my death, I would here,

this instant, die before your eyes; nor could life afford

me any pleasure if it were displeasing to my country足

men and soldiers. But every multitude, like the sea,

is incapable of moving itself; the winds and gales put

it in motion: thus, when either calms or storms appear

in you, all the madness lies in the first advisers. This

you have caught by infection: and even this day, you

do not seem to me to be sensible to what a pitch of

folly you have proceeded, or how heinous your at足

tempts have been with respect to me, how heinous

with respect to your country, your parents, and your

children; how heinous with respect to the gods, who

were witnesses of your oath; how heinous against the

practice of the service, the discipline of your an足

cestors, and the majesty of the supreme authority and

rule! With regard to myself, I say nothing. Be it,

that you believed the report rather through want of

thought, than through a wish that it should be true;

and let me even be supposed such a person, that it

