108 LIVY.

and Numidians then fairly turned their hacks; and

though at first they retreated in troops, and without

breaking their ranks, yet when the Romans fell furi­

ously on their rear they thought no more of order, but

fled precipitately, and dispersed into such places as

each found convenient. Although by this battle the

spirits of the Romans were somewhat raised, and those

of the enemy depressed, yet for several following days

the horsemen and light troops were continually en­

gaged in skirmishes.

14. After making trial of their strength in these

slight engagements, Hasdrubal led out his forces to

the field; then the Romans marched out. Both armies

stood in order of battle under their respective ram­

parts, neither party choosing to begin the attack ; when

it was near sunset, the Carthaginians first, and then the

Romans, marched back into camp. They acted in the

same manner for several days, the Carthaginian al­

ways drawing out his troops first, and first giving the

signal of retreat, when they were fatigued with stand­

ing. Neither side advanced in the least, nor was a

weapon discharged, nor a word uttered. The centre

divisions of their lines were composed, on one side, of

Romans; on the other of Carthaginians and African

auxiliaries: the wings were formed by the allies, who

on both sides were Spaniards. In front of the Cartha­

ginian line the elephants at a distance appeared like

castles. It was now generally said in both camps that

they were to engage in the same order in which they

had stood before; and that their centres, consisting of

Romans and Carthaginians, who were principals in

the war, would no doubt encouuter each other with

equal courage and strength of arms. When Scipio

understood that this opinion was firmly entertained, he

took care to alter the whole plan against the day on

which he intended to fight. On the preceding evening,

therefore, he gave out orders through the camp that

the men and horses should be refreshed and accoutred

before day; and that the horsemen, ready armed, should

keep.their horses bridled and saddled. Before it was

