46 LIVY.

At length he set out, with a number of recruits, to

join the army, which he had left the year before at

Venusia. Crispinus, observing the great degree of

fame which the taking of Tarentum had procured to

Marcelhis, prepared to lay siege to Locri in Bruttium,

sending to Sicily for engines and machines of all sorts,

and calling over a fleet from thence, to attack that

quarter of the city which stretched down to the sea.

But he laid aside his design of the siege, because

Hannibal had advanced to Licinium: he heard, too,

that his colleague had led out his army from Venusia,

which made him wish to unite their forces. Crispinus

therefore withdrew from Bruttium into Apulia, and

the two consuls sat down in separate camps, distant

from each other less than three miles, between Venu­

sia and Bantia. Hannibal also returned into the same

country, as soon as he had saved Locri from a siege.

And now the consuls, being both impatient for action,

offered battle almost every day; not doubting but

that, if the enemy would hazard an engagement with

the two consular armies united, they might effectually

put an end to the war.

26. As Hannibal, of the two battles which he had

fought with Marcellus the year before, had gained one

and lost the other, he might now, in case of an en­

gagement with the same antagonist, find reasonable

grounds both of hope and fear; but he could, by no

means, believe himself equal to a contest with the two

consuls together. Applying himself, therefore, wholly

to his old artifices, he watched an opportunity for an

ambuscade. However, several skirmishes were fought

between the camps with various success, and the con­

suls began to think that the summer might be spun out

in this manner. They were of opinion, however, that

the siege of Locri might, nevertheless, be prosecuted;

and they wrote to Lucius Cincius to come over with

the fleet from Sicily to that place; and to carry on the

siege on the land side, they ordered half the troops in

garrison at Tarentum to march thither. Hannibal,

having received previous intimation from some Thu-

