334 livy.

the road, being deceived by the various shouts raised

in several quarters. Some of them met with the ene­

my, and battles began in many places at once. The

hottest part of the action was at the station where the

king commanded; for the guard there was, in numbers

both of horse and foot, almost a complete army; and,

as they were posted on the middle road, the greatest

number of the Romans fell in with them. The Mace­

donians had also the advantage in this, that the king

himself was present to encourage them; and the Cre­

tan auxiliaries, fighting in good order, and in a state

of preparation, against troops disordered and irregular,

wounded many at a distance, where no such danger

was apprehended. If they had acted with prudence in

the pursuit, they would have secured an advantage of

great importance, not only in regard to the glory of

the present contest, but to the general interest of the

war; but, greedy of slaughter, and following with too

much eagerness, they fell in with the advanced cohorts

of the Romans under the military tribunes. The horse­

men who were flying, as soon as they saw the ensigns

of their friends, faced about against the enemy, now in

disorder; so that in a moment's time the fortune of the

battle was changed, those now turning their backs who

had lately been the pursuers. Many were slain in

close fight, many in the pursuit; nor was it by the

sword alone that they perished; several being driven

into morasses were, together with their horses, swal­

lowed up in the deep mud. The king himself was in

danger; for his horse falling, in consequence of a

wound, threw him headlong to the ground, and he very

narrowly escaped being overpowered before he could

recover his feet. He owed his safety to a trooper,

who instantly leaped from his horse, on which he

mounted the affrighted king; himself, as he could not

run so fast as to keep up with the horsemen, was slain

by the enemy, who had collected about the place where

Philip fell. The king, in his desperate flight, rode

about among the morasses, some of which were easily

passed, and others not; at length, when most men

