HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK X. 217

those who had with difficulty gained the walls, the

most formidable obstruction, in their way, fought with

ease on equal ground against an enemy inferior in

strength, they all forsook the towers and strongholds,

and were driven to the forum. There for a short time

they tried, as a last effort, to retrieve the fortune of

the fight; but, soon throwing down their arms, sur­

rendered to the consul, to the number of fifteen thou­

sand four hundred ; four thousand three hundred and

eighty being slain. Such was the course of events at

dom1nium ; such at Aquilonia. In the middle space

between the two cities, where a third battle had been

expected, the enemy were not found ; for, when they

were within seven miles of Cominium, they were re­

called by their countrymen, and had no part in either

battle. At night-fall.when they were now within sight

of their camp, nnd also of Aquilonia, shouts from both

places reaching them with equal violence, induced

them to halt: then, on the side of the camp which had

been set on fire by the Romans, the wide-spreading

flames discovered with more certainty the disaster

which had happened, and prevented their proceeding

any farther. In that same spot, stretched on the ground

at random nnder their arms, they passed the whole

night in great inquietude, at one time wishing for, at

another dreading the light. At the first dawn, while

they were still undetermined to what quarter they

should direct their march, they were obliged (unpro­

tected as they were either by a rampart or advanced

guard) to betake themselves hastily to flight, being

descried by the cavalry who had gone in pursuit of the

Samnites that left the town in the night. These had

likewise been perceived from the wails of Aquilonia,

and the legionary cohorts now joined in the pursuit.

The foot were unable to, overtake them, but the cavalry

cut off about two hundred and eighty of their rear

guard. The rest, with less loss than might have been

expected in such a disorderly rout, effected their escape

to Bovianum, leuving behind, in their consternation,

