264 LIVY.

such a vast number of soldiers being brought by tbe

ships, and another army quite unexpected pressing on

their rear. The Gauls finding that, instead of being the

assailants, as they had intended, they were even driven

from their own ground, made off hastily through the

clearest opening that they could find, and in the utmost

confusion dispersed to their several towns. Hannibal

now looked with contempt on the boisterous menaces

of this people, and bringing over the rest of his forces

at leisure, encamped on the spot. Various plans I

should suppose were projected for conveying the ele­

phants across the river, at least the accounts trans­

mitted of the manner in which it was performed are

various. Some relate, that being brought all together

to the river side, the fiercest among them was provoked

to anger by his keeper, who pursued him by swimming

as he fled into the water; that this drew down the rest

of the herd ; and that each, as soon as he lost the bot­

tom, was by the mere force of the stream hurried to the

opposite bank. But it is more generally agreed that

they were carried over on rafts; and as this must have

appeared the safer method, it is now more easy to be­

lieve that the business was so effected. One raft, of

two hundred feet in length, and fifty in breadth, was

extended from the bank into the river, the upper part

of it being firmly fastened to the shore with several

strong cables, to prevent its being carried down with

the stream, and this was covered with a layer of earth,

like a bridge, in order that the beasts might without

fear walk on it as on solid ground. Another raft of

equal breadth, and one hundred feet long, was fastened

to this, and when the elephants, being driven over the

fixed raft as on a road, the females going foremost,

passed over to the smaller one which was joined to it,

then the ropes with which this latter had been slightly

tied were instantly loosed, and it was towed away by

several light vessels to the other bank. When the first

were thus landed, it was brought back for the rest. As

long as they were driven, as it were, on a bridge con­

nected with the land, they showed no signs of fear:

