168 LIVY.

own prowess: so that the Roman troops in the van

would not have been able to support the contest had

not the second line, by the consul's order, come

up into the place of the first. These fresh troops

checked the progress of the Samnites, who had now

began to gain ground ; and, at this seasonable juncture,

their comrades appearing suddenly on the mountains,

and raising a shout, occasioned in the Samnites a fear

of greater danger than really threatened them: Fabius

called out aloud that his colleague Decius was ap­

proaching ; on which all the soldiers, elated with joy,

repeated eagerly that the other consul was come, the

legions were arrived! This artifice, while it produced

a happy effect on the Romans, filled the Samnites with

such dismay, that they thought of nothing but flight;

for they dreaded above all things, lest, fatigued as they

were, they should be overpowered by another army

fresh and unhurt. As they dispersed themselves on

every side, there was less effusion of blood than might

have been expected, considering the completeness of

the victory. There were three thousand four hundred

slain ; about three hundred and thirty made prisoners,

and twenty-three military standards taken.

15. The Apulians would have joined their forces to

the Samnites before this battle had not the consul,

Publius Decius, encamped in their neighborhood at

Maleventum; and, finding means to bring them to an

engagement, put them to the rout. Here, likewise,

there was more of flight than of bloodshed. Two thou­

sand of the Apulians were slain ; but Decius, despising

such an enemy, led his legions into Samnium. There

the two consular armies, overrunning every part of the

country during the space of five months, laid it intirely

waste. There were in Samnium forty-five places where

Decius, and eighty-six where the other consul, en­

camped. Nor did they leave traces only of having

been there, as ramparts and trenches, but other dread­

ful mementos of it—general desolation and regions de­

populated. Fabius also took the city of Cimetre, where

he made prisoners two thousand four hundred soldiers;

