222 LIVY.

writer, nor indeed could he in so short a time have

finished the building of it,) the son, in the office of

consul, dedicated and adorned with military spoils.

And of these, so great was the abundance, that not

only that temple and the forum were decorated with

them, but quantities were also distributed among the

allies and colonies in the neighborhood to serve as or­

naments to their temples and public places. Immedi­

ately after his triumph he led his army into winter

quarters in the territory of Vescia, that country being

exposed to the inroads of the Samnites. Meanwhile,

in Etruria, the consul Carvilius first laid siege to Troi-

lium, when four hundred and seventy of the richest

inhabitants, offering a large sum of money for permis­

sion to leave the place, he suffered them to depart:

the town with the remaining multitude he took by

storm. He afterwards reduced by force five forts

strongly situated, wherein were slain two thousand

four hundred of the enemy, and not quite two thou­

sand made prisoners. To the Faliscians, who sued

for peace, he granted a truce for a year, on condition

of their furnishing a hundred thousand asses in weight,1

and a year's pay for his army. This business com­

pleted, he returned home to a triumph, which, though

it was less illustrious than that of his colleague, in re­

spect of his share in the defeat of the Samnites, was

yet raised to an equality with it, the whole honor of

the campaign in Etruria belonging solely to him. He

carried into the treasury three hundred and ninety

thousand asses in weight.2 Out of the remainder of

the money accruing to the public from the spoils he

contracted for the building of a temple to Fors Fortu-

na, near to that dedicated to the same goddess by king

Servius Tullius; and gave to the soldiers, out of the

spoil, one hundred and two asses3 each, and double

that sum to the centurions and horsemen : this dona­

tive was received the more gratefully on account of

the parsimony of his colleague.

1 3221.18». id. s 1259/. 7s. 6d. » 6$. Td.

