HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXI. 267

than the summits of the Pyrenees, surely no part of

the earth reached to the heaven, nor was of a height

insuperable by mankind. These eminences in reality

were inhabited, cultivated, produced and supported

animals. Were they passable by small parties, and

impassable by armies? Those very ambassadors before

their eyes had not been carried aloft on wings over the

Alps. Neither had their ancestors been natives of the

soil, but settlers, who came from other countries into

Italy, and who crossed with safety those same hills,

often in vast bodies, with their wives and children, aa

other colonies emigrate. To a soldier carrying nothing

with him but the implements of war what could be im­

passable or insuperable ? In order to gain possession

of Saguntum, what toils, what dangers did they not

undergo, for the space of eight months 1 Now, when

their object was Rome, the capital of the world, what

difficulty or danger should be deemed capable of re­

tarding the enterprise ? The Gauls formerly made

themselves masters of those very places which the Car­

thaginians despaired of approaching. Either, there­

fore, they must yield the superiority in spirit and cou­

rage to that nation which, during a short time past,

they had so frequently overcome, or they must look,

for the termination of their march in the field lying

between the Tiber and the walls of Rome.'

31. When by these exhortations he had re-animated

their courage, he ordered them to take refreshment,

and prepare for a march. On the following day, he

proceeded upwards along the bank of the Rhone, di­

recting his route towards the interior parts of Gaul;

not because that was the more direct road to the Alps,

but because he thought that the farther he withdrew

from the sea, the less probability there would be of

his meeting with the Romans, with whom he did not

intend to come to battle until he should have arrived

in Italy. After a march of four days, he came to the

Island. Here the rivers Isara and Rhone, which run

down from different parts of the Alps, after encom­

passing a pretty large tract of ground, unite their

