HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK X. 210

the field, they had only one mode of operation to pur­

sue, the besieging of the cities ; by the destruction of

which they might be enabled to enrich their soldiers

with the spoil, and at the same time utterly to destroy

the enemy, reduced to the necessity of fighting, their

all being at stake. The consuls, therefore, after de­

spatching letters to the senate and people of Rome,

containing accounts of the services which they had

performed, led away their legions to different quarters,

Papirius going to attack. Sepinnm, Carvilius to Vo-

lana.

45. The letters of the consuls were heard with ex­

traordinary exultation, both in the senate-house and

in the assembly of the people ; and, in a public thanks­

giving of four days' continuance, individuals concurred

with hearty zeal in celebrating the public rejoicings.

These successes were not only important in themselves,

but peculiarly seasonable ; for it happened that at the

same time intelligence was brought of the Etrurians

being again in arms. The reflection naturally occurred,

how it would have been possible, in case any misfor­

tune had happened in Samnium, to have withstood the

power of Etruria ; which being encouraged by the con­

spiracy of the Samnites, and seeing both the consuls,

and the whole force of the Romans, employed against

them, had made use of that juncture, in which the Ro­

mans had so much business on their hands, for reviving

hostilities. Ambassadors from the allies being intro­

duced to the senate by the pretor Marcus Atilius, com­

plained that their countries were wasted with fire and

sword by the neighboring Etrurians, because they had

refused to revolt from the Romans ; and they besought

the conscript fathers to protect them from the violence

and injustice of their common enemy. The ambassa­

dors were answered, that ' the senate would take care

that the allies should not repent their fidelity:' that

' the Etrurians should shortly be in the same situation

with the Samnites.' Notwithstanding which, the bu­

siness respecting Etruria would have been prosecuted

with less vigor had not information been received that

