LIVY.

the lieutenant-generals, questors, and military tribunes

to join them. Let it not then be demanded of me, why

I entered into such a compact, when do such power

was lodged in a consul, and when I could not, either

to them insure a peace, of which I could not command

the ratification ; or in behalf of you, who had given me

no powers. Conscript fathers, none of the transactions

at Caudium were directed by human wisdom. The

immortal gods deprived of understanding both your

generals and those of the enemy. On the one side, we

acted not with sufficient caution ; on the other, they

threw away a victory, which through our folly they

had obtained, while they hardly confided in the places

by means of which they had conquered; but were in

haste, on any terms, to take arms out of the hands of

men who were born to arms. Had their reason been

sound, would it have been difficult, during the time

which they spent in sending for old men from home to

give them advice to send ambassadors.to Rome, and to

negotiate a peace and treaty with the senate and with

the people? It would have been a journey of only

three days to expeditious travellers. In the interim

matters might have rested under a truce, that is, until

their ambassadors should have brought from Rome

either certain victory, or peace. That would have

been really a compact on the faith of sureties, for we

should have become sureties by order of the people.

But neither would you have passed such an order, nor

should we have pledged our faith ; nor was it the will

of fate, that the affair should have any other issue,

than that they should be vainly mocked with a dream,

as it were, of greater prosperity than their minds were

capable of comprehending, and that the same fortune

which had entangled our army should effectuate its

deliverance ; that an ineffectual victory should be suc­

ceeded by a more effectual peace ; and that a conven­

tion on the faith of a surety should be introduced,

which bound no other person besides the surety: for

what part had you, conscript fathers? what part had

the people in this affair? Who can call on you ? Who

can say that he has been deceived by you i Can the

