68 LIVY.

favor of the people, the support of the tribunes, and

regard for the absent army. On the other side were

urged the inviolable authority of the Roman govern­

ment and military discipline ; the edict of the dictator,

always observed as the mandate of a deity ; nor was

the severity of Manlius forgot, and his postponing

even parental affection to public utility. ' The same

also,' said the dictator, ' was the conduct of Lucius

Brutus, the founder of Roman liberty, in the case of

his two sons. But now, such is the indulgence of fa­

thers, and the easiness of temper in the aged, that in

this case of contempt of the dictatorial authority they

indulge the young in the subversion of military order,

as if it were a matter of trifling consequence. For his

part, however, he would persevere in his purpose, and

would not remit the smallest part of the punishment

justly due to a person who fought contrary to his

orders, while the rites of religion were imperfectly

executed, and the auspices uncertain. Whether the

majesty of the supreme authority was to be perpetual,

or not, depended not on him ; but Lucius Papirius

would not diminish aught of its rights. He wished

that the tribunitian office, inviolate itself, would not

by its interposition violate the authority of the Roman

government; nor the Roman people, in his case par­

ticularly, annihilate the dictator, and the rights of the

dictatorship, together. But, if this should be the

case, not Lucius Papirius, but the tribunes and the

people, would be blamed by posterity ; though then

too late, when military discipline being once dis­

solved, the soldier would no longer obey the orders

of the centurion, the centurion those of the tribune,

the tribune those of the lieutenant-general, the lien-

tenant-general those of the consul, nor the master of

the horse those of the dictator. No one would then

pay any deference to men, no, nor even to the gods.

Neither edicts of generals nor auspices would be ob­

served. The soldiers, without leave or absence, would

straggle at random through the lands of friends and of

foes; and, regardless of their oath, would, merely to

