HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK VIII. 63

peared neither the author nor cause of the alarm could

be discovered. This year, in pursuance to the advice

of Flavius, a tribune of the commons, the Tusculans

were brought to a trial before the people. He pro­

posed that punishment should be inflicted on those of

the Tusculans ' by whose advice and assistance the

Veliternians and Privernians bad made war on the

Roman people.' The Tusculans, with their wives and

children, came to Rome ; and in mourning habits, like

persons under accusation, went round the tribes, throw­

ing themselves at the feet of the citizens with humble

supplications. This excited a degree of compassion,

which operated more effectually towards procuring

them pardon than all the arguments they could urge

did towards clearing themselves of guilt. Every one

of the tribes, except the Pollian, negatived the propo­

sition. The sentence of the Pollian tribe was, that the.

grown-up males should be beaten, and put to death,

and their wives and children sold by auction, accord­

ing to the rules of war. It appears that the resent­

ment which arose against the advisers of so rigorous a

measure was retained in memory by the Tusculans

down to the age of our fathers ; and that hardly any

candidate of the Pollian tribe could, ever since, gain

the votes of the Papirian.

38. In the following year, [A. U. C. 432. B. C. 320]

which was the consulate of Quintus Fabius and Lucius

Fulvius, Aulus Cornelius Arvina being made dictator,

and Marcus Fabius Ambustus master of the horse,

troops were levied with greater exertion than ordinary,

under the apprehension of having a more powerful op­

position than usual to encounter in the war with the

Samnites; who, it was reported, had procured from

their neighbors a number of young men for hire: an

army therefore of extraordinary force was sent against

them. Although in a hostile country, their camp was

pitched in as careless a manner as if the foe were at a

great distance ; when suddenly the legions of the Sam­

nites approached with so much boldness as to advance

their rampart close to an outpost of the Romans. Night

