84 LJW.

marched to Caudium. The heralds, who went before,

on coming to the gate, ordered the sureties of the peace

to be stripped of their clothes, and their hands to be

tied behind their backs. As the apparitor, out of re­

spect to his dignity, was binding Postumius in a loose

manner, ' Nay,' said he, ' draw the cord tight that the

surrender may be regularly performed.' Then, when

they came into the assembly of the Samnites, and to

the tribunal of Pontius, Aulus Cornelius Arvina, a

herald, pronounced these words : ' Forasmuch as these

men here present, without orders from the Roman peo­

ple, the Quirites, entered into surety that a treaty

should be made, whereby they have rendered them­

selves criminal; now, in order that the Roman people

may be freed from the crime of impiety, I here sur­

render these men into your hands.' On the herald

saying thus, Postumius gave him a stroke on the thigh

with his knee, as forcibly as he could, and said with a

loud voice, that ' he was now a citizen of Samnium,

the other a Roman ambassador; that the herald had

been by him violently ill treated, contrary to the law

of nations ; and that the people he represented would

therefore have the more justice on their side in the

war which they were about to wage.'

11. Pontius then said, ' Neither will I accept such a

surrender, nor will the Samnites deem it valid. Spu-

rius Postumius, if you believe that there are gods,

why do you not undo all that has been done, or fulfil

your agreement? The Samnite nation is intitled,

either to all the men whom it had in its power, or, in­

stead of them, to a peace. But why do I make a de­

mand on yon, who, with as much regard to faith as

you are able to show, return yourself a prisoner into

the hands of the conqueror? I make the demand on

the Roman people. If they are dissatisfied with the

convention made at the Caudine forks, let them re­

place the legions within the defile where they were

pent up. Let there be no deception on either side. Let

all that has been done pass as nothing. Let them re­

ceive again the arms which they surrendered by the

