2G6 LIVY.

a chieftain called Magalus, who, assuring him that

they would he his guides on the march, and companions

in the dangers, recommended him to reserve the first

essay of his intire force for the attack of Italy, and not

previously to hazard-any diminution of his strength.

His troops feared indeed the enemy, for the memory

of the former war was not yet obliterated; but much

more did they dread the extreme difficulty of the march,

and the passage of the Alps, a matter exceedingly for­

midable, at least by report, and to people unacquainted

with those mountains.

30. Hannibal, therefore, as soon as he had determined

to proceed forward, and direct his operations against'

Italy, called an assembly of the soldiers, and endea­

vored, by the different methods of reproof and exhor­

tation, to mould their minds to his purpose. ' He won­

dered,' he said, ' what sudden terror could have taken

possession of breasts hitherto always undaunted. Du­

ring such a number of years in which they carried arms,

they were constantly victorious; nor had left Spain

until all the nations and countries comprehended be­

tween the two opposite seas were under subjection to

Carthage. Then, seized with indignation at the Roman

people demanding that every person concerned in the

siege of Saguntum should be delivered into their hands

as criminals, they had passed the Iberus, resolved to

exterminate the Roman race, and to set the world at

liberty. No one at that time thought the march too

long, though they were to continue it from the setting

place of the sun to that of its rising. Now, when they

saw by far the greater part of the journey accom­

plished, after conquering the obstructions of the Pyre-

nean forests, in the midst of the fiercest nations ; after

effecting their passage over so great a river as the

Rhone, in the face of so many thousands of Gauls op­

posing them ; nay, when they had the Alps within view,

the other side of which was a part of Italy, just in the

gates of their enemy's country, they grew weary and

halted—was it that they conceived the Alps to be any

thing more than high mountains? Suppose them higher

