92 LIVY.

if it be true, as I find in some annals, that Pontius, son

of Herennius, the Samnite general, was sent under the

yoke along with the rest, to atone for the disgrace of

the consuls. I think it indeed less strange to find un­

certainty, with respect to the treatment of the Samnite

general, than that there should be a doubt whether it

was Lucius Cornelius, in quality of dictator, (Lucius

Papirius Cursor being master of the horse, who acted

at Caudium, and afterwards at Luceria, as the single

avenger of the disgrace of the Romans, enjoying the

best deserved triumph, perhaps next to that of Furius

Camillus, which had ever yet been obtained,) or whe­

ther that honor belongs to the consuls, and particularly

to Papirius. This uncertainty is followed by another,

whether at the next election [A.U.C. 435. B.C. 317]

Papirius Cursor was chosen consul a third time, with

Quintus Aulus Cerretanus a second time, being re­

elected in requital pf his services at Luceria; or whe­

ther it was Lucius Papirius Mugillanus, the surname

being mistaken.

16. From henceforth the accounts are clear that the

other wars were conducted to a conclusion by the con­

suls. Aulius, by one successful battle, intirely con­

quered the Ferentans. The city, to which their army

had retreated after its defeat, surrendered on terms,

and was ordered to give hostages. Similar fortune at­

tended the other consul in his operations against the

Satricans ; who, though Roman citizens, had, after the

misfortune at Caudium, revolted to the Samnites, and

received a garrison into their city. The Satricans,

however, when the Roman army approached their

walls, sent deputies to sue for peace, with humble in -

treaties, to whom the consul answered harshly, that 'they

must not come again to him, unless they either put

to death, or delivered up the Samnite garrison :' which

words struck greater terror into the colonists than the

arms with which they were threatened. The deputies,

on this, several times asking the consul how he thought

that they, who were few and weak, could attempt to

use force against a garrison so strong and well armed,

