HISTORY OF ROUE.—BOOK X. 221

great, the whole substance of the Samnites being col­

lected in a few cities, was given up to the soldiers.

46. The snow had now intirely covered the face of

the country, and rendered the shelter of houses abso­

lutely necessary: the consul therefore led home his

troops from Samnium. While he was on his way to

Rome a triumph was decreed him with universal con­

sent : and accordingly he triumphed while in office,

and with extraordinary splendor, considering the cir­

cumstances of those times. The cavalry and infantry

marched in the procession, adorned with the honorable

presents which they had received. Great numbers of

crowns were seen, which had been bestowed as marks

of honor, for having saved the lives of citizens, or for

having first mounted walls or ramparts. People's cu­

riosity was highly gratified in viewing the spoils of the

Samnites, and comparing them, in respect of magni­

ficence and beauty, with those taken by his father,

which were well known, from being frequently exhi­

bited as ornaments of the public places. Several pri­

soners of distinction, renowned for their own exploits,

and; those of their ancestors, were led in the cavalcade.

There were carried in the train two millions and thirty-

three thousand asses in weight,1 said to be produced

by the sale of the prisoners ; and of silver, taken in

the. cities, one thousand three hundred and thirty

pounds. All the silver and brass were lodged in the

tieasury, no share of this part of the spoil being given

to the soldiers. The ill humor which this excited in

the commons was farther exasperated by their being

obliged to contribute by a tax to the payment of the

army ; whereas, said they, if the vain parade of con­

veying the produce of the spoil to the treasury had

been disregarded, donations might have been made to

the soldiers, and the pay of the army also supplied out

of that fund. The temple of Quirinus, vowed by his

father, when dictator, (for that he himself had vowed it

in the heat of battle, I do not find in any ancient

> 49401.13s. 6d.

