28 Ll W.

fortifications were demolished by the Sidicinians. The

senate, highly displeased with the consuls, in conse­

quence of whose dilatory proceedings their allies had

been disappointed of support, ordered a dictator to be

nominated. Caius Claudius Regillensis being accord­

ingly appointed, chose Caius Claudius Hortator master

of the horse. A scruple afterwards arose concerning

the dictator, and the augurs having declared his crea­

tion informal, both he and the master of the horse ab­

dicated their offices. This year Minucia, a vestal,

falling at first under suspicion of incontinence, because

of her dressing in a style of elegance beyond what

became her situation, and being afterwards prosecuted

before the pontiffs, on the testimony of a slave, was, by

their decree, ordered to refrain from meddling in sa­

cred rites, and to retain her slaves under her own

power.1 Being afterwards brought to trial, she was

buried alive, at the Colline gate, on the right hand of

the causeway in the Field of Wickedness, which was

so denominated, I suppose, from her crime. The same

year Quintus Publilius Philo was the first plebeian

elected pretor. He was opposed by the consul Sulpi-

cius, who refused to admit him as a candidate ; but the

senate, having failed of carrying their point with re­

spect to the highest offices, showed the less earnestness

about the pretorship.

16. The following year, [A. U. C. 419. B.C. 333]

wherein Lucius Papirius Crassus and Caeso Duillius

were consuls, was distinguished by a war with the

Ausonians, which deserves notice rather as they were

a new enemy than on account of its importance. This

people inhabited the city Cales: they had united their

arms with their neighbors the Sidicinians, yet the

forces of the two nations were defeated in a single

battle without any great difficulty. Their cities, being

near at hand, induced them to quit the field the earlier,

and also afforded them shelter after their flight. How­

ever, the senate did not, on this, desist from the prose-

1 For if she had made them free, they could not have been

examined by the torture.

