HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK IX. 97

cated by prosperity, the seductions of which no man

was less capable of withstanding. But, if a judgment

is to be formed of him from the tenor of his conduct,

in the new state of his fortune, and from the new dis­

position, as I may say, which he put on after his suc­

cesses, he would have entered Italy more like Darius

than Alexander; and would have brought thither an

army who had forgotten Macedonia, and were degene­

rating into the manners of the Persians. It is painful

in speaking of so great a king to recite his ostentatious

pride in the frequent changes of his dress; his re­

quiring that people should address him with adulation,

prostrating themselves on the ground; a practice in­

supportable to the Macedonians had they even been

conquered, much more so when they were victorious ;

the shocking cruelty of his punishments ; his murder­

ing his friends in the midst of feasting and wine ; with

the folly' of his fiction respecting his birth. What

must have been the consequence, if his love of wine

had daily increased ? If his fierce and uncontrollable

anger ? and as I mention not any one circumstance of

which there is a doubt among writers, do we consider

these as no disparagements to the qualifications of a

commander? But then, as is frequently repeated by

the silliest of the Greeks, who are fond of exalting the

reputation, even of the Parthians, at the expense of

the Roman name, it was to be apprehended that the

Roman people would not have had resolution to face

the splendor of Alexander's name, who, however, in

my opinion, was not known to them even by common

fame; and while in Athens, a state reduced to weak­

ness by the Macedonian arms, which at the very time

saw the ruins of Thebes smoking in its neighborhood,

men had spirit enough to declaim with freedom against

him, as is manifest from the copies of their speeches,

which have been preserved ; is it to be supposed that

out of such a number of Roman chiefs no one would

have freely uttered bis sentiments? How large soever

the scale may be on which our idea of this man's great­

ness is formed, still it is the greatness of an individual,

LIV. VOL. III. G

