HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK IX. 11?

while the public attention was deeply engaged by two

most important wars.

31. The consuls adjusting the provinces between

them, the Samnites fell by lot to Junius, the new war

of Etruria to /Emilias. In the country of the former,

the Samnites finding themselves unable to take Cluvia,

a Roman garrison, by force, had formed a blockade,

and reduced it by famine to capitulate; and, after

torturing with stripes in a shocking manner the towns­

men who surrendered, had put them to death. En­

raged at this cruelty, Junius determined to postpone

every thing else to the attacking of Cluvia; and, on the

first day that he assaulted the walls, took it by storm,

and slew all who were grown to man's estate. The

victorious troops were led from thence to Bovianum ;

this was the capital of the Pentrian Samnites, by far

the most opulent of their cities, and the most powerful

both in men and arms. The soldiers, stimulated by

the hope of plunder, soon made themselves masters of

the town: where, their resentment being less violent,

there was less severity exercised on the enemy; but a

quantity of spoil was carried off, greater almost than

had ever been collected out of all Samnium, and the

whole was liberally bestowed on the assailers. The

Samnites now perceiving that the Romans possessed

such a superiority in arms, that no force in the field,

no camp, no cities, could withstand them, bent their

whole attention to find out an opportunity of acting by

stratagem. They conceived that the enemy, proceeding

with incautious eagerness in pursuit of plunder, might,

on such occasion, be caught in a snare and overpowered.

Some peasants who deserted, and some prisoners who

were taken, (part of them being purposely thrown in the

way, while others were met by accident,) concurred in

their report to the consul, which at the same time was

true, that a vast quantity of cattle had been driven to­

gether into a certain defile of difficult access, and by

which he was induced to lead thither the legions lightly

accoutred, in order to seize the prey. Here a-very

numerous army of the enemy had posted themselves

