248 LIVY.

endure, rather than to suffer yourselves to be slaugh足

tered, and your wives and children seized and dragged

into slavery before your eyes, according to the practice

of war.'

14. The surrounding crowd, gradually approaching

to hear this discourse, had formed an assembly of the

people conjoined with the senate, when the men of

principal distinction, withdrawing suddenly before any

answer was given, collected all the gold and silver both

from their private and public stores, into the forum,

threw it into a fire hastily kindled for the purpose, and

then most of them cast themselves headlong in after it.

While the dismay and confusion which this occasioned

filled every part of the city, another uproar was heard

from the citadel. A tower, after being battered for a

long time, had fallen down, and a cohort of the Car足

thaginians having forced their way through the breach,

gave notice to their general that the place was destitute

of the usual guards and watches. Hannibal, judging

that such an opportunity admitted no delay, assaulted

the city with his whole force, and instantly making

himself master of it, gave orders that every person of

adult age should be put to the sword : which cruel

order was proved, however, by the event, to have been

in a manner induced by the conduct of the people ; for

how could mercy have been extended to any of those

who, shutting themselves up with their wives and chil足

dren, burned their houses over their heads; or who,

being in arms, continued fighting until stopped by

death ?

15. In the town was found a vast quantity of spoil,

notwithstanding that the greater part of the effects had

been purposely injured by the owners ; and that, during

the carnage, the rage of the assailants had made hardly

any distinction of age, although the prisoners were the

property of the soldiers. Nevertheless, it appears that

a large sum of money was brought into the treasury

out of the price of goods exposed to sale, and likewise

that a great deal of valuable furniture and apparel was

sent to Carthage. Some writers have asserted that Sa足

