HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK IX. 103

relieving Saticula, sat themselves down before Plistia,

which was in alliance with the Romans, that they might

if possible retort equal vexation on their enemy.

22. The year coming to a conclusion, the war was

thenceforward conducted by a dictator, Quintus Fa-

bius. [A.U. C. 439. B.C. 313.] The new consuls,

Lucius Papirius Cursor and Quiutus Publilius Philo,

both a fourth time, as the former had done, remained

at Rome. Fabius came with a reinforcement to Sati­

cula, to receive the command of the army from jEmi-

lius. The Samnites had not continued before Plistia ;

but having sent for a new supply of men from home,

and relying on their numbers, had encamped in the

same spot as before; and, by provoking the Romans '

to battle, endeavored to divert them from the siege.

The dictator, so much the more intently, pushed for­

ward his operations against the fortifications of the

enemy; considering the taking of the city as the only

object of the war, and showing an indifference with

respect to the Samnites, except that he placed guards

in proper places to prevent any attempt on his camp.

This encouraged the Samnites, so that they rode up to

the rampart, and allowed him no quiet. These now

coming up close to the gates of the camp, Quintus

Aulius Cerretanus, master of the horse, without con­

sulting the dictator, sallied out furiously at the head

of all the troops of cavalry, and drove them back. In

this desultory kind of fight Fortune exerted her power

in such a manner as to occasion an extraordinary loss

on both sides, and the remarkable deaths of the com­

manders themselves. First, the general of the Sam­

nites, filled with indignation at being repulsed, and

compelled to fly from a place to which he had advanced

with such confidence, prevailed on his horsemen, by

intreaties and exhortations, to renew the battle. As

he was easily distinguished among the horsemen, while

he urged on the fight, the Roman master of the horse

galloped up against him in such a furious career that,

with one stroke of his spear, he tumbled him lifeless

from his horse. The multitude however were not, as

