HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXI. 275

by aid of the hands or knees, these slipping, they fell

again : add to this, that there were neither stumps nor

roots within reach, on which they could lean for sup­

port ; so that they wallowed in the melted snow on one

intire surface of slippery ice. This the cattle some­

times penetrated as soon as their feet reached the lower

bed ; and sometimes, when they lost their footing, by

striking more strongly with their hoofs in striving to

keep themselves up, they broke it intirely through ; so

that the greatest part of them, as if caught in traps,

stuck fast in the hard and deep ice.

37. At length, after men and beasts were heartily

fatigued to no purpose, they fixed a camp on the sum­

mit ; having with very great difficulty cleared even the

ground which that required, so great was the quantity

of snow to be dug and carried off. The soldiers were

then employed to make a way down the steep, through

which alone it was possible to effect a passage ; and as

it was necessary to break the mass, they felled and

lopped a number of huge trees which stood near, which

they raised into a vast pile, and as soon as a smart

wind arose, to forward the kindling of it, set it on

fire; and then, when the stone was violently heated,

made it crumble to pieces by pouring on vinegar.

When the rock was thus disjointed by the power of

the heat, they opened a way through it with iron in­

struments, and inclined the descents in such a manner,

that not only the beasts of burden, but even the ele­

phants, could be brought down. Four days were spent

about this rock, during which the cattle were nearly

destroyed by hunger; for the summits are for the most

part bare, and whatever little pasture there might have

been was covered by the snow. In the lower parts are

valleys and some hills, which, enjoying the benefit of the

sun, with rivulets at the side of the woods, are better

suited to become the residence of human beings. There

the horses were sent out to pasture, and the men, fa­

tigued with their labor on the road, allowed to rest for

three days. They then descended into the plains,

