HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK X. 171

tions, and intriguing at Etruria, the operations of the

Romans in their own territories distressed them se­

verely : for Publius Decius, when informed by his

scouts of the departure of the Samnite army, called a

council, and there said, ' Why do we ramble through

the country, carrying the war from one village to ano­

ther?. Why not attack the cities and fortified places?

No army now guards Samnium. They have fled: they

are gone into voluntary exile.' The proposal being

universally approved, he marched to attack Murgantia,

a city of considerable strength ; and so great was the

ardor of the soldiers, resulting from their affection to

their commander, and from their hopes of richer trea­

sure than could be found in pillaging the country

places, that in one day they took it by assault. Here,

two thousand one hundred of the Samnites making

resistance, were surrounded and taken prisoners; and

abundance of other spoil fell into the hands of the vic­

tors. Decius, not choosing that the troops should be

incumbered in their march with such heavy baggage,

ordered them to be called together, and said to them,

' Do you intend to rest satisfied with this single vic­

tory, and this booty? or do you choose to cherish

hopes proportioned to your bravery 1 All the cities of

the Samnites and the property left in them are your

own ; since, after so often defeating their legions, you

have finally driven them out of the country. Sell those

effects in your hands ; and allure traders by a prospect

of profit to follow you on your march. I will from

time to time supply you with goods for sale. Let us

go hence to the city of Itomulea, where no great labor,

but greater gain awaits you.' They accordingly sold

off the spoil; and warmly adopting the general's plan,

proceeded to Romulea. This town likewise was taken

without works or engines, and plundered ; for as soon

as the battalions approached it, nothing could hinder

the soldiers from mounting the walls ; but .hastily ap­

plying ladders, they forced their way over the fortifi­

cations. Two thousand three hundred men were slain,

six thousand taken prisoners, and abundance of spoil

