HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXI. 309

sure, relieved from the burden of religious apprehen­

sions.

63. Flaminius, one of the consuls elect, to whom had

fallen by lot the legions which wintered at Placentia,

sent an edict and letter to the consul, desiring that

those troops should be ready in camp at Ariminum on

the ides of March. His design was to enter on the

office of consul in his province ; for he remembered

his old disputes with the patricians, the contests in

which he had engaged with them when tribune of the

commons, and afterwards, when consul, first about the

consulship, his election to which they wanted to annul,

and then about a triumph. He was besides hated by

the patricians on account of a new law, prejudicial to

the senators, introduced by Caius Claudius, a plebeian

tribune, to which Caius Flaminius alone, of all the pa­

tricians, had given his support, that no senator, or son

of a senator, should be owner of a ship fit for sea-

voyages, which contained more than three hundred

amphoras.1 This size was thought sufficient for con­

veying the produce of their farms, and every kind of

traffic was deemed unbecoming a senator. This busi­

ness had been contested with the utmost degree of heat,

and had procured to Flaminius, the advocate for the

law, great hatred among the nobility, but as great popu­

larity among the commons, and, in consequence of

this, a second consulship. For these reasons, sus­

pecting that they would, by falsifying the auspices, by

the delay of celebrating the Latine festival, and other

impediments to which a consul was liable, detain him

in the city, he pretended a journey, and, while yet in

a private capacity, went secretly into the province.

This step, when it became known, added fresh resent­

ment to the animosity which, before this, possessed

the breasts of the senators; they exclaimed, that

' Caius Flaminius now waged war, not only with the

senate, but with the immortal gods. That formerly,

1 About ten tons.

