HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK IX. 81

surrender us as unsanctified persons, which you may

do without offence to religion; those sacred and in­

violable personages, the tribunes, you will deliver up

as soon as they go out of office : but if you listen to

me, they will be first scourged with rods, here in the

Comitium, by way of interest for their punishment, on

account of the delay of payment: for as to their de­

nying that the people are acquitted of the religious

obligation by our being given up, who is there so

ignorant of the laws of the heralds, as not to know that

those men speak in that manner to prevent themselves

from being surrendered, rather than because the case

is really so? Still I do not deny, conscript fathers,

that compacts on sureties given are as sacred as trea­

ties in the eyes of all who regard faith between men

with the same reverence which is paid to duties re­

specting the gods : but I insist that without the order

of the people nothing can be ratified that is to bind

the people. Suppose that out of the same arrogance

with which the Samnites forced from us the convention

in question, they had compelled us to repeat the esta­

blished form of words for the surrendering of cities,

would you, tribunes, say that the Roman people had

surrendered ? and that this city, these temples and

consecrated grounds, these lands and waters, were be­

come the property of the Samnites? I say no more of

the surrender, because our having become sureties is

the point insisted on. Now suppose we had become

sureties, that the Roman people should quit this city;

that they should set it on fire ; that they should have

no magistrates, no senate, no laws ; that they should

in future be ruled by kings : the gods forbid, you say.

But the enormity of the articles lessens not the obliga­

tion of a compact. If the people can be bound in any

one instance, it can in all. Nor is there any impor­

tance in another circumstance, which weighs, perhaps,

with some: whether a consul, a dictator, or a pretor,

be the surety. And this indeed was the judgment,

even of the Samnites themselves, who were not satis­

fied with the security of the consuls, but compelled

LIV. VOL. ill. F

