270 LIVY.

where the climate, and likewise the temper of the in­

habitants, were of a still milder cast.

38. In this manner, as nearly as can be ascertained,

they accomplished their passage into Italy, in the fifth

month, according to some authors, after leaving New

Carthage, having spent fifteen days in crossing the

Alps. As to what number of forces Hannibal had,

when he arrived in Italy, writers by no means agree.

Those who state them at the highest make them amount

to one hundred thousand foot and twenty thousand

horse; while those who state them at the lowest say

twenty thousand foot and six of horse. The authority

of Lucius Cincius Alimentus, who writes that he was

taken prisoner by Hannibal, would have the greatest

weight with me, did he not confound the number hy

adding the Gauls and Ligurians. He says that, in­

cluding these, (who, it is more probable, however,

flocked to him afterwards, and so some writers assert,)

there were brought into Italy eighty thousand foot and

ten thousand horse; and that he heard from Hannibal

himself, that from the time of his passing the Rhone

he had lost thirty-six thousand men, together with a

vast number of horses and other beasts of burden, be­

fore he left the country of the Taurinians, the next

nation to the Gauls as he went down into, Italy. That

he came through this state is agreed on by all. I am

therefore the more surprised at its remaining doubtful

by what road he crossed the Alps, and that the opi­

nion should commonly prevail that he passed over the

Pennine hill, and that from thence that summit of these

mountains got its name. Coelius says that he passed

over the hill of Cremo. Either of these passes would

have led him, not into the territory of the Taurinians,

but through that of the mountaineers, called Salassians,

to the Libuan Gauls. Nor is it probable that those

\ roads into Hither Gaul should, at that time, have been

open : those, especially, which lead to the Pennine

hill would have been blocked up by nations half Ger­

man. And besides, if the assertions of the inhabitants

