HISTORY OF ROME. 191 .—BOOK X.

on chariots and cars, made towards them with such a

prodigious clatter, from the trampling of the cattle and

rolling of wheels, as affrighted the horses of the Ro­

mans, unaccustomed to such tumultuous operations.

By this means the victorious cavalry were dispersed,

through a panic, and men and horses, in their headlong

flight, were tumbled promiscuously on the ground.

The same cause produced disorder even in the batta­

lions of the legions : through the impetuosity of the

horses, and of the carriages which they dragged through

the ranks, many of the soldiers in the van were trodden

or bruised to death ; while the Gallic line, as soOn as

they saw their enemy in confusion, pursued the advan­

tage, nor allowed them time to take breath. Decius,

calling aloud ' Whither were they flying, or what hope

could they have in running away V strove to stop them

as they turned their backs; but finding that he could

not, by any efforts, prevail on them to keep their

posts, so thoroughly were they dismayed, he called on

the name of his father Publius Deciu,s, and said, ' Why

do I any longer defer the fate entailed on my family?

It is the appointment of destiny to our race that we

should serve as expiatory victims to avert the public

danger. I will now offer the legions of the enemy,

together with myself, a bloody sacrifice to Earth, and

the infernal gods.' Having thus said, he commanded

Marcus Livius, a pontiff, whom, at his coming out to

the field, he had charged not to stir from him, to dic­

tate the form of words in which he was to devote him­

self, and the legions of the enemy, for the army of the

Roman people, the Quirites. He was accordingly de­

voted with the same imprecations, and in the same

habit, in which his father Publius Decius had ordered

himself to be devoted at the Veseris in the Latine war.

After this he added, that ' he carried along with him

dismay and flight, slaughter and blood, and the wrath

of the gods celestial and infernal: that, with the con­

tagious influence of the Furies, the ministers of death,

whose victim he was, he would infect the standards,

the weapons, and the armor of the enemy; and on the

