HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXI. 263

for carrying over the men, horses, and other weighty-

matters. As to the Spaniards, they took no trouble

about any means of conveyance, but thrusting their

clothes into leathern bags, and resting their bodies on

their bucklers placed under them, swam over the river.

The rest of the troops, having also passed over on the

rafts joined together, they encamped near the river,

and being fatigued by the march during the night, and

by the labor of the work, refreshed themselves with

rest for one day, while their leader was earnestly stu­

dying how to execute the design in proper season.

Next day, having marched from thence, they made a

signal, by raising a smoke, that they had effected their

passage, and were not far distant; which being per­

ceived by Hannibal, he gave the signal for his troops

to pass the river. The infantry had the boats equipped

and in readiness, and a line of larger vessels, with the

horsemen, most of whom had their horses swimming

near them, crossed higher up the river, in order to

break the force of the current, and thereby render the

water smooth for the boats passing below. The horses

for the most part were led after the sterns by collars,

those only excepted which had been put on board the

ships bridled and accoutred, in order that the riders,

on their landing, might have them ready for instant

use.

28. The Gauls ran down to the bank to meet them,

with various kinds of cries and songs, according to their

custom, tossing their shields above their heads, and with

their right hands brandishing their javelins, notwith­

standing the terrible appearance of such a vast number

of ships, together with the loud roaring of the river,

and the confused clamors of the mariners and soldiers,

both of those who were struggling to force their way

through the violent current, and of those who, from the

opposite bank, encouraged their friends on their pas­

sage. While they saw sufficient cause of terror on their

front, a more terrifying shout assailed them from behind,

where their camp was taken by Hanno. Presently he

came up ; so that they were encompassed by dangers;

