HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXI. 241

guntines forming with their bodies a bnlwark to their

native city, instead of its wall, of which it had been

stripped ; not one of them giving ground, lest be should

make room for the enemy to enter by th'e space. The

greater therefore the eagerness of the combatants, and

the closer their ranks, the more wounds consequently

were received, no weapon falling without taking effect

either in their bodies or armor.

9. The Saguntines had a missile weapon called fa-

larica, with a shaft of fir, round, except towards the

end, to which the iron was fastened : this part, which

was square, as in a javelin, they bound about with tow

and daubed with pitch : it had an iron bead three feet

long, so that it could pierce both armor and body toge­

ther : but what rendered it most formidable was, that

being discharged with the middle part on fire, and the

motion itself increasing greatly the violence of the

flame, though it struck in the shield without penetra­

ting to the body, it compelled the soldier to throw

away his arms, and left him without defence against

succeeding blows. Thus the contest long continued

doubtful; and the Saguntines, finding that they suc­

ceeded in their defence beyond expectation, assumed

new courage ; while the Carthaginian, because he had

not obtained the victory, deemed himself vanquished.

On this the townsmen suddenly raised a shout, pushed

back the enemy among the ruins of the wall, drove

them off from that ground, where they were embar­

rassed and confused, and, in fine, compelled them to

fly in disorder to their camp.

10. In the mean time an account was received that

ambassadors had arrived from Rome; on which Han­

nibal sent messengers to the sea-shore to meet them,

and to acquaint them that it would not be safe for them

to come to him through the armed bands of so many

savage nations; and besides, that in the present critical

state of affairs, he had not leisure to listen to embassies.

He saw clearly that on being refused audience, they

would proceed immediately to Carthage: he therefore

despatched messengers and letters beforehand to the

LIV. VOL. III. Q

