HISTORY OF ROME.— BOOK IX. 131

rius dictator. When the deputies returned him thanks

for so very meritoriously subduing bis passion, be still

persevered in obstinate silence, and dismissed them

without any answer, or mention of what he had done ;

a proof that he felt an extraordinary degree of resent­

ment, which it cost him a violent struggle to suppress.

Papirius appointed Caius Junius Bubulcus master of

the horse; and, as he was proceeding in an assembly

of the curiae,1 to get an order passed respecting the

command of the army, an unlucky omen obliged him

to adjourn it; for the curia which was to vote first

happened to be the Faucian, remarkably distinguished

by two disasters, the taking of the city, and the Cau-

dine peace ; the same curia having voted first in those

years in which the said events are found. Licinius

Macer supposes this curia ominous also, on account of

a third misfortune, that which was experienced at the

Cremera.

39. Next day the dictator, taking the auspices anew,

obtained the order;° and, marching out at the head of

the legions lately raised on the alarm occasioned by

the army passing the Ciminian forest, came to Lon-

gula; where, having received the troops of the consul

Marcius, he led on his forces to battle; nor did the

enemy seem to decline the combat. However, they

stood under arms until night came on, neither side

choosing to begin the fray. After this they continued

a considerable time encamped near each other, without

coming to action, neither diffident of their own strength

nor despising the adversary. Meanwhile the army in

Etruria was fully employed ; for a decisive battle was

fought with the Umbrians, in which the enemy was

routed, but lost not many men ; for they did not main­

tain the fight with the vigor with which they began it.

1 The comitia curiata, or assemblies of the curiae, alone had

the power of conferring military command; no magistrate

therefore could assume the command without the previous

order of their assembly. In time, this came to be a mere

matter of form; yet the practice always continued to be ob­

served.

