258 LIVY.

his eyes: he then saw behind him a serpent of immense

size, moving along and felling all the bushes and trees

in its way; and after it followed a dark cloud, with

loud thundering in the air. On which, asking what

was the nature of this great commotion, or what it

portended, he was told that it meant the devastation of

Italy: he was then ordered to proceed in his course,

and not to inquire farther, but let the decrees of the

destinies remain in obscurity.

23. Overjoyed at this vision, he led his forces in

three divisions over the lberus, having sent forward

emissaries to conciliate by presents the friendship of

the Gauls, through whose country the army was to

pass, and to explore the passes of the Alps. The

number of forces which he brought across the lberus

was ninety thousand foot, and twelve thousand horse.

He then reduced the Ilergetans, the Bargusians, the

Ausetanians, and the province of Lacetania, which lay

at the foot of the Pyrenean mountains. The govern­

ment of all this tract he gave to Hanno, with inten­

tion to retain the command of the narrow passes which

lead from Spain into Gaul; and, to enable him to

secure the possession of it, assigned him a body of

forces, consisting of ten thousand foot and one thou­

sand horse. When the army began to pass the defiles

of the Pyrenees, and a rumor spread with greater

certainty among the barbarians that the war was in­

tended against the Romans, three thousand of the Car-

petan foot left him, and marched away, actuated, as

clearly appeared, not so much by dread of the enemy,

as of the great length of the march, and the insu­

perable difficulty of crossing the Alps. Hannibal,

considering that to recall or detain them by force

might be attended with dangerous consequences, and

wishing to avoid every thing that might irritate the

ferocious tempers of the rest, sent home above ten

thousand men, in whom he had discovered an equal

aversion from the service, pretending that he had in

like manner dismissed the Carpetans.

24. Then, lest delay and idleness should inspire

