IIVY.

than to abandon the Sidicinians, yield obedience to the

commands, not only of the Romans, but of the Sam-

nites, saying in answer to the former that, whenever

they intimate their pleasure, we are ready to lay down

our arms? But, on the other hand, if our minds are

at length penetrated by an ardent desire of liberty; if

there be a confederacy subsisting; if alliance be equality

of rights; if the Romans have now reason to glory ia

a circumstance, of which they were formerly ashamed,

our being of the same blood with them; if they have,

in our troops, such an army of allies that, by its junc­

tion with their own, they double their strength ; such

a one, in short, as their consuls, either in commencing

or concluding their own wars, would, very unwillingly,

disunite from their party; why is there not a perfect

and settled equalisation ? Why is it not permitted that

one of the consuls should be chosen from among the

Latines ? and that they who supply an equal share of

strength should be admitted to an equal share in the

government? This, indeed, considered in itself, would

not redound to our honor in any extraordinary degree ;

as we should still acknowlege Rome to be the metropolis

of Latium; but that it may possibly appear to do so, is

owing to our tame resignation for such a length of time.

But, if you ever wished to acquire a participation in

the government, the opportunity now presents itself,

afforded to you by the bounty of the gods and your

own resolution. You have tried their patience by re­

fusing the supply of troops: who can doubt that they

were incensed to the highest degree when we broke

through a practice of more than two hundred years'

continuance ? Yet they thought proper to smother their

resentment. We waged war with the Pelignians in our

own name: those who formerly would not grant us

liberty to defend our own frontiers interfered not

then. They heard that we had received the Sidicinians

into our protection ; that the Campanians had revolted

from them to us ; that we were preparing an army to

act against the Samnites, their confederates; yet they

stirred not a step from their city. What but a know­

