48 LIVY.

people, moved by compassion for his early age, and

indignation at his barbarous treatment, reflecting at

the same time what might be the lot of themselves,

and of their children, flocked together into the forum,

and from thence in a body to the senate-house. When

the consuls were obliged by the sudden tumult to

rail a meeting of the senate, the people falling at the

feet of each of the senators as they were going into the

senate-house, presented to their view the back of Caius

torn with stripes. On that day, in consequence of the

outrageous conduct of an individual, one of the strong­

est bonds of credit was broken ; and the consuls were

commanded to propose to the people that no person

should be held in fetters or stocks, except convicted

of a crime, and in order to punishment; but that for

money due the goods of the debtor, not his person,

should be answerable. Thus the confined debtors

were released; and provision made for the time to

come that they should not be liable to confinement.

29. In the course of this year, while the war with the

Samnites was sufficient in itself to give full employ­

ment to the senate, besides the sudden defection of the

Lucanians, and the intrigues of the Tarentines, by

which it had been effected, they found another source

of uneasiness in a union formed by the state of the

Vestinians with the Samnites. Which event, though

it continued during the present year to be the general

subject of conversation, without coming under any

public discussion, appeared so important to the con­

suls of the year following, [A. U. C. 430. B. C. 322]

Lucius Furius Camillus a second time, and Decius

Junius, that it was the first business which they pro­

posed to the consideration of the state. Notwithstand­

ing it had yet produced no effects, it threw the senate

into great perplexity, as they dreaded equally the con­

sequences either of passing it over or of taking it up ;

lest on the one hand, if that people's conduct passed

with impunity, wantonness and arrogance might ex­

cite other states in their neighborhood to follow their

example ; and, on the other, if an attempt should be

