LIVY.

of fixed and settled principles, deduced from the prac­

tice of the kings; and afterwards, of the expellers of

those kings, the Junii and Valerii ; with all the im­

provements made in it by the Fabii, the Quintii, the

Comelii, and particularly Furius Camillus, who was

an old man in the earlier years of those with whom

Alexander must have fought. Manlius Torquatus

might, perhaps, have yielded to Alexander had he

met him in the field ; and so might Valerius Corvus ;

men who were distinguished soldiers, before they be­

came commanders. The same too might have been

the case with the Decii, who, after devoting their per­

sons, rushed on the enemy; or of Papirius Cursor,

though possessed of such powers, both of body and

mind. The counsels of one youth, it is possible, might

have baffled the wisdom of a whole senate, composed

of such members, that he alone, who said it was an

assembly of kings, conceived a just idea of it. But

then there was little probability that he should, with

more judgment than any one of those whom I have

named, choose ground for an encampment, provide

supplies, guard against stratagems, distinguish the

season for fighting, form his line of battle. or strengthen

it properly with reserves. He would have owned that

he was not dealing with Darius, who drew after him a

train of women and eunuchs; saw nothing about him

but gold and purple; was incumbered with the bur­

densome trappings of his state, and should be called

his prey, rather than his antagonist; whom therefore

he vanquished without loss of blood, and had no other

merit, on the occasion, than that of showing a proper

spirit in despising empty show. Italy would have ap­

peared to him a country of a quite different nature

from Asia, which he traversed in the guise of a re­

veller at the head of a crew of drunkards, if he bad

seen the forests of Apulia and the mountains of Luca-

nia, with the vestiges of the disasters of his house, and

where his uncle Alexander, king of Epirus, had been

lately cut off.

18. I am here speaking of Alexander, not yet intoxi­

