HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK X. 203

more steady than theirs. As soon therefore as these

beheld the Roman standards, a murmur spread from

front to rear of the Samnites, that, as they had feared,

* the Romans were coming out to oppose their march ;  
that there was no road open through which they could

even fly thence: in that spot they must fall, or else

cut down the enemy's ranks, and make their way over

their bodies.'

36. They then threw the baggage in a heap in the

centre, and, with their arms prepared for battle,

formed their line, each falling into his post. There

was now but a small interval between the two armies,

and both stood waiting until the shout and onset

should be begun by their adversary. Neither party

had any inclination to fight, and they would have sepa­

rated and taken different roads without coming to ac­

tion, but that each had a dread of being harassed, in

retreat by the other. Notwithstanding this reluc­

tance, an engagement unavoidably began, but without

any vigor, and with a shout which discovered neither

resolution nor steadiness ; nor did any move a foot

from his post. The Roman consul, then, in order to

ipfuse life into the action, ordered a few troops of

cavalry to advance out of the line and charge : most of

whom being thrown from their horses and the rest put

in disorder, several parties ran forward, both from the

Samnite line to cut off those who had fallen, and from

the Roman to protect their friends: this roused some

little spirit in the combatants; but the Samnites had

come forward with more briskness and also in great

numbers, and the disordered cavalry, with their af­

frighted horses, trod down their own party who came

to their relief. These were, consequently, the first

who fled ; and their example was followed by the

whole Roman line. And now the Samnites had no

employment for their arms but against the rear of a

flying enemy, when the consul galloping on before his

men to the gate of the camp, posted there a body of

cavalry, with orders to treat as an enemy any person

who should make towards the rampart, whether Roman

