13G LIVY.

Etruria, and march away to besiege Rome ; which de­

sign of theirs being reported to the consul Decius, he

removed by long marches from Etruria towards their

city, and sat down in the district of Pupinia, in readi­

ness to act according to the intelligence which he might

receive of the enemy's motions. Nor was the insur­

rection of the Umbrians slighted at Rome: their very

threats excited fears among the people, who had expe­

rienced, in the calamities suffered from the .Gauls, the

insecurity of the city wherein they resided. Deputies

were therefore despatched to the consul Fabius with

directions that, if he had any respite from the war of

the Samnites, he should with all haste lead his army

into Umbria. The consul obeyed the order, and by

forced marches proceeded to Mevania, where the forces

of the Umbrians then lay. The unexpected arrival of

the consul, whom they had believed to be sufficiently

employed in Samnium, far distant from their country,

so thoroughly affrighted the Umbrians, that several ad­

vised retiring to their fortified towns; others, the laying

aside their arms. However, one district, called^ by

themselves Materina, prevailed on the rest not only to

retain their arms, but to come to an immediate engage­

ment. They fell on Fabius while he was fortifying his

camp. When the consul saw them rushing impetu­

ously towards his rampart, he called off his men from

the work, and drew them up in the best manner which

the nature of the place and the time allowed ; en­

couraged them by displaying, in honorable and just

terms, the glory which they had acquired, as well in

Etruria as in Samnium, and bade them finish this in­

significant appendage to the Etrurian war, and take

vengeance for the impious expressions in which these

people had threatened to attack the city of Rome. Such

was the alacrity of the soldiers on hearing this that,

raising the shout spontaneously, they interrupted the

general's discourse, and, without waiting for orders,

advanced, with the sound of all the trumpets and cornets,

in full speed against the enemy. They made their attack

not as on men, or at least men in arms, but, what must

