272 LIVY.

bush. Some men of advanced age, governors of their

forts, came to the Carthaginian as ambassadors, with

humble representations, that ' as the calamities of

others had afforded them a profitable lesson, they

wished to make trial of the friendship, rather than of

the strength of the Carthaginians. That they were

therefore resolved to yield obedience to all his com­

mands, and requested him to accept of provisions and

guides on his march, and hostages to insure the per­

formance of their engagements.' Hannibal neither

hastily crediting, nor yet slighting their offers, lest, if

rejected, they might declare openly against him, after

returning a favorable answer, accepted the hostages,

and made use of the provisions which they had, of their

own accord, brought to the road ; but followed the

guides, not as through a friendly country, but with

the strictest order in his march. The elephants and

cavalry composed the van, and he himself followed

with the main body of the infantry, carefully inspect­

ing every particular. On their coming into a road

narrower than the rest, confined on one side by an

impending hill, the barbarians rising up on all sides

from places where they had lain concealed, assailed

them in front and rear, in close and in distant fight,

rolling down also huge rocks on the troops. The most

numerous body pressed on the rear. There the main

force of infantry was ready to oppose them ; but had

not that been very strong, it must undoubtedly, in such

a difficult pass, have suffered very great loss : even aa

the case stood, it was brought to the extremity of dan­

ger, and almost to destruction : for whilst Hannibal

hesitated to lead down his horsemen into the narrow

road, though he had left no kind of support at the back

of the infantry, the mountaineers, rushing across and

breaking through between the two divisions of the

army, took possession of the pass, and Hannibal spent

one night separated from his cavalry and baggage.

35. Next day, the barbarians having relaxed the

violence of their attacks in the centre, the troops were

reunited, and carried through the defile, but not with­

