182 LIVY.

of a size sufficient for a small chapel, and there erected

an altar. Then, calling together the plebeian matrons,

and complaining of the injurious behavior of the pa­

tricians, she said, ' This altar I dedicate to plebeian

chastity, and exhort you that the same degree of emu­

lation which prevails among the men of this state, on

the point of valor, may be maintained by the women

on the point of chastity ; and that you contribute yonr

best care, that this altar may have the credit of being

attended with a greater degree of sanctity, and by

chaster women than the other.' Solemn rites were

performed at this altar under the same regulations

nearly with those at the more ancient one; no person

being allowed the privilege of taking part in the sacri­

fices, except a woman of approved chastity, and who

was the wife of one husband. This institution, being

afterwards debased by the admission of vicious cha­

racters, and not only by matrons, but women of every

description, sunk at last into oblivion. During this

year the Ogulnii, Cneius and Quintus, being curule

ediles, carried on prosecutions against several usurers ;

and these being condemned to pay fines out of the pro­

duce and for the use of the public, the ediles made

brazen thresholds in the capitol; utensils of plate for

three tables, which were deposited in the chapel of

Jupiter ; a statue of Jupiter in a chariot drawn by four

horses placed on the roof; and images of the founders

of the city, in their infant state under the teats of the

wolf, at the Ruminal fig-tree. They also paved with

square stones the roads from the Capuan gate to the

temple of Mars. The plebeian ediles likewise, Lucius

^Elius Pectus, and Caius Fulvius Corvus, out of money

levied as fines on farmers of the public pastures, whom

they had convicted of malpractices, exhibited games,

and consecrated golden bowls in the temple of Ceres.

24. Then came into the consulship Quintus Fabius, a

fifth time, and Publius Decius, a fourth. [A. U. C. 457.

B. C. 205.] They had been colleagues in the censorship,

and twice in the consulship, and were celebrated not

more for their glorious achievements, splendid as these

