HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK VIII. 35

20. While the two consular armies were employed

in the siege of Privernum, one of the consuls was re­

called to Rome, to preside at the elections. This year

gaols were first erected in the circus. While the at­

tention of the public was still occupied by the Priver-

nian war, it was forcibly attracted by an alarming re­

port of the Gauls being in arms, a matter at no time

slighted by the senate. The new consuls, therefore,

Lucius jEmilius Mamercinus and Caius Plautius, on

the calends of July, [A.U.C. 426. B.C. 326] the very

day on which they entered into office, received orders

to settle the provinces immediately between themselves.

Mamercinus, to whom the Gallic war fell, was directed

to levy troops, without admitting any plea of immu­

nity : nay, it is said, that even the rabble of handi­

crafts, and those of sedentary trades, of all the worst

qualified for military service, were called out; by

which means a vast army was collected at Veii, in

readiness to meet the Gauls. It was not thought pro­

per to proceed to a greater distance, lest the Gauls

might by some other route arrive at the city without

being observed. In the course of a few days it was

found, on a careful inquiry, that every thing on that

side was quiet at the time; and the whole force, which

was to have opposed the Gauls, was then turned against

Privernum. Of the issue of the business there are

two different accounts : some say that the city was

taken by storm, and that Vitruvius fell alive into the

hands of the conquerors; others, that the townsmen,

to avoid the extremities of a storm, presented the rod

of peace, and surrendered to the consul, and that Vi­

truvius was delivered up by his troops. The senate,

being consulted with respect to Vitruvius and the Pri-

vernians, sent directions that the consul Plautius should

demolish the walls of Privernum, and, leaving a strong

garrison there, come home to enjoy the honor of a

triumph ; at the same time ordering that Vitruvius

should be kept in prison until the return of the consul,

and that he should then be beaten with rods, and put to

death. His house, which stood on the Palatine hill,

