HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK VIII. 33

that expiation, the minds of men, which were distracted

by discord, had been restored to their proper state, it

was resolved that a dictator should be nominated for

the purpose. Cneius Quintus being accordingly created,

appointed Lucius Valerius master of the horse; and,

as soon as the nail was driven, they abdicated their

offices. [A. U. C. 424. B. C. 328.]

19. Lucius Papirius Crassus and Lucius Plautius

Venno were the consuls for the next year [A.U.C. 425.

B. C. 327] ; in the beginning of which ambassadors

came to Rome from Fabrateria and Polusca, two Vol-

scian stntes, praying to be admitted into alliance ; and

promising that, if they were protected against the arms

of the Samnites, they would ever continue faithful and

obedient subjects to the government of the Roman

people. On this ambassadors were sent by the senate,

to require of the Samnites that they should offer no

violence to the territories of those states ; and this

embassy produced the desired effect, rather because

the Samnites were not yet prepared for war than that

they were desirous of peace. This year war broke out

with the people of Privernum: these were supported

by the inhabitants of Fundi, of which country was also

the commander-in-chief, Vitruvius Vaccus, a man of

considerable note, not only at home but at Rome also.

He had a house on the Palatine hill, on the spot which,

after the buildings were rased and the ground thrown

open, was called Vacciprata.1 He was committing

great depredations in the districts of Setia, Norba, and

Cora; to oppose him therefore Lucius Papirius began

his march, and took post at a small distance from his

camp. Vitruvius neither took the prudent resolution

of remaining within his trenches, in the presence of an

enemy, his superior in strength, nor had he the cou­

rage to fight at any great distance from them. With­

out either judgment in forming, or boldness in exe­

cuting his plan, he entered on an engagement while

the last of his troops had scarcely got out of the gate

1 Or the field of Vaccus, from pratum, a field.

LIV. VOL. III. C

