HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXI. 301

nation in Rome that people supposed the enemy would

come directly to attack the city; and they could see

no hope nor aid to enable them to repel an assault

from the walls and gales. One consul had been de­

feated at the Ticinns, the other recalled from Sicily;

and now that both the consuls, and two consular armies

had been defeated, what other commanders, what other

legions were there whom they could call to their sup­

port ? While they were possessed by such desponding

fears the consul Sempronius arrived: for though the

enemy's cavalry were scattered over the whole face of

the country in search of plunder, yet he had passed

through the midst of them with the utmost hazard, and

with a greater degree of boldness than of prudence ; or

of hope either of escaping notice, or of being able to

make resistance in case he were discovered. After

holding the election of consuls, the only business which

rendered his presence particularly necessary at the

time, he returned to his winter quarters. The consuls

elected were Cneius Servilius and Caius Flaminius.

Even in their winter quarters the Romans were not

allowed to rest, the Numidian cavalry spreading them­

selves round on every side ; the Celtiberians and Lusi-

tanians doing the same where the ground was too diffi­

cult for the horse; so that no provisions of any kind

could be brought in, except what were conveyed on

the Po in ships. There was near Placentia a maga­

zine, fortified with strong works, and supplied with a

numerous garrison. In hopes of gaining possession of

this stronghold, Hannibal marched at the head of his

cavalry and light infantry; and judging that the suc­

cess of the enterprise would depend principally on the

design being kept secret, made the attack by night;

but he did not escape the vigilance of the guards, as a

shout was instantly raised so loud that it was heard

even at Placentia. In consequence of this the consul

came to the spot before day with his cavalry, having

ordered the legions to follow in order of battle. Mean­

while the action began between the cavalry, in which

