HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK IX. 113

hundred men, but found affairs on that side in a very

different posture; the Romans driven from their

ground, and the victorious enemy pressing on their

disordered battalions. However, the arrival of the

consul effected a speedy change in every particular ;

for, on the sight of their leader, the spirit of the sol­

diers was revived, and the bravery of the men who

came with him rendered them a more powerful rein­

forcement than even their number; while the news of

success in the other wing, of which they soon had visi­

ble proof, restored the vigor of the fight. From this

time the Romans became victorious through the whole

extent of the line, and the Samnites, giving up the

contest, were slain or taken prisoners, except such as

made their escape to Maleventum, the town which is

now called Beneventum. Thirty thousand of the

Samnites were slain or taken, according to accounts

of historians.

28. The consuls, after this important victory, led

forward the legions to lay siege to Bovianum; and

there they continued during part of the winter, until

Cains Petilius being nominated dictator, with Marcus

Foslius master of the horse, received the command of

the army from the new consuls, Lucius Papirius Cursor

a fifth, and Caius Junius Bubulcus a second time.

[A.U.C. 441. B.C. 311.] On hearing that the citadel

of Fregellas was taken by the Samnites, be left Bovia­

num, and proceeded to that city, of which he recovered

possession without any contest, the Samnites abandon­

ing it in the night: he then placed a strong garrison

there, and returned to Campania, directing his opera­

tions principally to the recovery of Nola. Within the

walls of this place the whole multitude of the Sam­

nites, and the inhabitants of the country about Nola,

shut themselves up on the approach of the dictator.

Having taken a view of the situation of the city, in

order to open the approach to the fortifications, he set

fire to all the buildings which stood round the walls,

which were very numerous; and, in a short time after,

Nola was taken, either by the dictator Petilius, or the

LIV. VOL. III. H

