120 LIVY.

greatest courage; nor did victory declare itself until

the second line of the Romans came up fresh to the

front, in the place of the first, who were much fatigued.

The Etrurian line not being supported by any fresh

reserves, all before and round the standards were

slain, and in no battle whatever would have been seen

a nobler stand, or a greater effusion of human blood,

had not the night sheltered the Etrurians, who were

resolutely determined to resist to death ; so that the

victors, not the vanquished, were the first who desisted

from fighting. After sunset the signal for retreat was

given, and both parties retired in the night to their

camps. During the remainder of the year nothing

memorable was effected at Sutrium ; for of the enemy's

army, the whole first line had been cut off, the re­

serves only being left, who were scarce sufficient to

guard the camp ; and, among the Romans, a greater

number died of their wounds than had fallen in the

field.

33. Quintus Fabius, consul for the ensuing year,

[A.U. C. 444. B.C. 308] succeeded to the command

of the army at Sutrium : the colleague given to him

was Caius Marcius Rutilus. On the one side, Fabius

brought with him a reinforcement from Rome, and on

the other, a new army had been sent for, and came from

home to the Etrurians. Many years had now passed

without any disputes between the patrician magistrates

and plebeian tribunes, when a contest took its rise from

that family, which seemed raised by fate as antagonists

to the tribunes and commons of those times ; Appius

Claudius being censor, when the eighteen months had

expired, which was the time limited by the /Emilian

law for the duration of the censorship, although his

colleague Caius Plautius had already resigned his

office, could not be prevailed on by any means to give

up his. There was a tribune of the commons, Publius

Sempronius, who undertook to enforce the termination

of the censorship within the lawful time by means of a

legal process, which was not more popular than just,

nor more pleasing to the people generally than to

