HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK X. 175

from me to act with spirit, than I from you to speak

with elegance: I now make you a final proposal,

which will demonstrate, not which is the better orator,

for that is not what the public wants, but which is the

better commander. The provinces are Etruria and

Samnium : make your choice ; I, with my own army,

will undertake to manage the business of either.' The

soldiers then, with loud clamors, requested that they

would in conjunction carry on the war in Etruria ;

when Volumnius, perceiving that it was the general

wish, said, ' Since I have been mistaken in apprehend­

ing my colleague's meaning, I will take care that there

shall be no room for mistake with respect to the pur­

port of your wishes. Signify by a shout, whether you

choose that I should stay or depart.' On this', a shout

was raised, so loud, that it brought the enemy out of

their camp: they snatched up their arms, and marched

forward in order of battle. Volumnius likewise or­

dered the signal to be sounded, and his troops to take

the field. It is said that Appius hesitated, perceiving

that, whether he fought or remained inactive, his col­

league would enjoy the honor of the victory; and

that, afterwards, dreading lest his own legions should

follow Volumnius with the rest, he gave the signal at

the earnest desire of his men. On neither side were

the forces drawn up to advantage : for, on the one,

Gellius Egnatius, the Samttite general, had gone out

to forage with a few cohorts, and his men entered on

the fight, as the violence of their passions prompted,

rather than under any directions or orders. On the

other, the Roman armies neither marched out toge­

ther, nor had time sufficient to form : Volumnius be­

gan to engage before Appius came up, consequently

their front in the battle was uneven ; and by some ac­

cidental interchange of their usual opponents, the

Etrurians fought against Volumnius ; and the Sam-

nites, after delaying some time on account of the ab­

sence of their general, against Appius. We are told

that Appius, during the heat of the fight, raising his

Lauds towards heaven, so as to be seen in the foremost

