30 LlVY.

dictator, for the purpose of holding the elections, Lu­

cius jEmilius Matnercinus, who named Quintus Publi-

lius Philo master of the horse. [A. U. C. 421. B. C.

331.] The dictator presiding at the election, Titus

Veturius and Spurius Postumius were created consuls.

Notwithstanding the war with the Sidicinians remained

unfinished, yet being desirous to prevent, by an act of

generosity, the wishes of the commons, they proposed

to the senate the sending a colony to Cales; and a de­

cree being passed that two thousand five hundred men

should be inrolled for that purpose, they constituted

Caeso Duillius, Titus Quintius, and Marcus Fabius,

commissioners for conducting the colony, and distri­

buting the lands.

17. The new consuls, receiving from their predeces­

sors the command of the army, marched into the ene­

my's country, and carried devastation even to the walls

of their capital. There, because it was expected that

the Sidicinians, who had collected a vast body of forces,

would make a vigorous struggle in support of their last

hope, and a report also prevailing that Samnium was

preparing for hostilities, the consuls, by direction of

the senate, nominated dictator Publius Cornelius Ru-

finus, who appointed Marcus Antonius his master of

the horse. A doubt afterwards arose with respect to

the regularity of their creation, on which they abdi­

cated their offices; and a pestilence ensuing, recourse

was had to an interregnum, as if the auspices of every

office had been infected by that irregularity. Under

Marcus Valerius Corvus, the fifteenth interrex from

the commencement of the interregnum, consuls were

at last elected ; Aulus Cornelius a second time, and

Cneius Domitius. [A. U. C. 422. B. C. 330.] While

things were in a state of tranquillity, a report, which

was spread that the Gauls were in arms, produced the

same effect which a war with that people usually did,

a resolution to create a dictator: Marcus Papirius

Crafsus was nominated to that office, and Publius Va­

lerius Publicola to that of master of the horse; and

while they were busy in levying troops, with greater

