290 LIVY.

he had by this time heard that be was recalled from

Sicily,) chose a spot near the river, which seemed the

safest for a fixed station, and there fortified -his camp.

Hannibal took post at a small distance; and though he

felt much joy at the success of his cavalry, yet finding

no less cause of anxiety in the scarcity of necessaries,

daily increasing as he marched through an enemy's

country without magazines prepared, he sent a detach­

ment to the small town of Clastidium, where the Ro­

mans had collected a large store of corn. Here, while

the troops were preparing for an assault, a prospect

offered of the town being betrayed to them, and accord­

ingly the commander of the garrison, one Dasius, a

Brundusian, for a bribe of no great amount, only four

hundred pieces of gold,1 surrendered Clastidium to

Hannibal. This served the Carthaginians as a granary

while they lay encamped on the Trebia. The prisoners,

who fell into his hands on the surrender of the garrison,

he treated without severity, being desirous that, at the

commencement of his proceedings, a good opinion

should be conceived of his clemency.

49. While the operations of the land forces on the

Trebia were at a stand, much was effected by land and

sea in and round Sicily, and the other islands adjacent

to Italy, both by Sempronius the consul, and before his

arrival. Of twenty quinqueremes, sent by the Cartha­

ginians with one thousand soldiers, to ravage the toast

of Italy, nine arrived at Liparae, eight at the island of

Vulcan, and three were driven by the current into the

strait. As soon as these were seen from Messana

twelve ships were despatched by Hiero, king of Syra­

cuse, who happened to be then in that city waiting for

the Roman consul, and these took them without oppo­

sition, and brought them into port to Messana. From

the prisoners it was discovered that, besides the fleet

of twenty ships to which they belonged, and which had

been sent against Italy, another of thirty-five quinque­

remes was on its way to Sicily, to rouse their ancient

25i. 16s. 8d.

