HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK IX. 85

convention ; let them return into their camp. What­

ever they were in possession of the day before the con­

ference, let them possess again. Then let war and

resolute counsels be adopted. Then let the conven­

tion and peace be rejected. Let us carry on the war

in the same circumstances and situations in which we

were before peace was mentioned. Let neither the

Roman people blame the convention of the consuls,

nor us the faith of the Roman people. Will you never

want an excuse for violating the compacts which you

make on being defeated ? You gave hostages to Por-

sena: you clandestinely got them back. You ran­

somed your state from the Gauls for gold : while they

were receiving the gold they were put to the sword.

You concluded a peace with us, on condition of our

restoring your captured legions: that peace you now

annul; in fine, you always spread over your fraudu­

lent conduct some show of right. Do the Roman peo­

ple disapprove of their legions being saved by an igno­

minious peace? Let them take back their peace, and

return the captured legions to the conqueror. This

would be conduct consistent with faith, with treaties,

and with the laws of the heralds. But that you should,

in consequence of the convention, obtain what you de­

sired, the safety of so many of your countrymen, while

I obtain not what I stipulated for on sending you back

those men, a peace; is this the law which you, Aulus

Cornelius, which you, heralds, prescribe to nations?

But for my part, I neither accept those men whom you

pretend to surrender, nor consider them as surren­

dered ; nor do I hinder them from returning into their

own country, which stands bound under an actual con­

vention, carrying with them the wrath of all the gods,

whose authority is thus despised. Wage war, since

Spurius Postumius has just now struck with his knee

the herald, in character of ambassador. The gods are

to believe that Postumius is a citizen of Samnium, not

of Rome ; and that a Roman ambassador has been vio­

lated by a Samnite ; and that therefore you have just

grounds for a war against us. That men of years and

