HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK IX. 79

pointment, there was substituted in their room Marcus

yEmilius Papus, dictator, and Lucius Valerius Flac-

cus, master of the horse. But neither did these hold

the elections: and the people being dissatisfied with

all the magistrates of that year, an interregnum en­

sued. The office of interrex was held by Quintus Fa-

bius Maximus; afterwards by Marcus Valerius Cor-

vus, who elected consuls Quintus Publilius Philo, and

Lucius Papirius Cursor a second time [A. U. C. 434.

B.C. 318]; a choice universally approved, for there

were no commanders at that time of higher reputation.

8. They entered into office immediately on being

elected, for so it had been determined by the fathers.

When the customary decrees of the senate were passed

they proposed the consideration of the Caudine peace;

and Publilius, whose duty it was to open the business,

said, ' Spurius Postumius, speak.' He arose with just

the same countenance with which he had passed under

the yoke, and delivered himself to this effect: ' Con­

suls, doubtless I am to be called up first with marked

ignominy, not with honor; and am ordered to speak,

not as being a senator, but as a person who has to an­

swer for an unsuccessful war and disgraceful peace.

However, the question propounded by you is not con­

cerning our guilt or our punishment: waving there­

fore a defence, which would not be very difficult before

men who are not unacquainted with the casualties to

which mankind are subject, I shall briefly state my

opinion on the matter in question; which opinion will

testify whether I was actuated by tenderness to myself

or to your legions, when I engaged as surety to the

convention, be it of what kind it may, whether disho­

norable or necessary : by which, however, the Roman

people are not bound, inasmuch as it was concluded

without their order; nor is any thing liable to be for­

feited to the Samnites, in consequence of it, except our

persons. Let us then be delivered up to them by the

heralds, naked, and in chains. Let us free the people

of the religious obligation, if we have bound them un­

der any such; so that there may be no restriction,

