HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXI. 251

Cornelius was less numerous, because Lucius Manlius,

a pretor, was also sent into Gaul with a considerable

force. Of ships, particularly Cornelius' share was

small: sixty quinqueremes only w.ere given him, for it

was not supposed either that the enemy would come

by sea, or that he would exert himself on that element.

Two Roman legions, with their regular proportion of

cavalry, and of the allies fourteen thousand foot and

sixteen hundred horse were assigned to him. In this

year the province of Gaul, though not yet threatened

with a Carthaginian war, had posted in it two Roman

legions, and ten thousand confederate infantry, with

one thousand confederate horsemen and six hundred

Roman.

18. These adjustments being made, they yet deter­

mined, previous to the taking up arms, to send Quin-

tus Fabius, Marcus Livius, Lucius iEmilius, Caius Li-

cinius, and Quintus Baebius, men venerable on account

of their age, into Airica, as ambassadors, to require an

explanation from the Carthaginians, whether Hanni­

bal's attack on Saguntum had been authorised by the

state ; and in case they should acknowlege it, as it was

expected they would, and defend that proceeding, then

to declare war against the people of Carthage. When

the Romans arrived at Carthage, and were introduced

to an audience of the senate, Quintus Fabius, without

enlarging on the subject, simply proposed the question

as stated in their instructions; on which one of the

Carthaginians replied, ' Romans, in your former em­

bassy you were too precipitate, when you demanded

that Hannibal should be delivered up, as attacking

Saguntum of his own authority. But your present

proceeding, though hitherto milder in words, is, in

effect, more unreasonably severe. A charge was made

against Hannibal, only when you required him to be

delivered up: now you endeavor to extort from us a

confession of wrong committed, and at the same in­

stant, as if we had already pleaded guilty, insist on re­

paration. For myself, I am of opinion that the ques­

tion proper to be asked is, not whether Saguntum was

