LIVY.

attacked by public authority or private, but whether

justly or unjustly ? for with respect to a subject of our

government, whether acting under direction of the

public authority, or. not, the right of inquiry, and of

punishing, is exclusively our own. The only point,

then, that comes into discussion with you is, whether

the act was allowable according to treaty ? Where­

fore, since you chose that a distinction should be

made between what commanders do by public autho­

rity, and what of their own will, there is a treaty sub­

sisting between us, concluded by your consul Lutatius,

in which provision is made for the interest of the allies

of both nations. But there is no clause in favor of the

Saguntines ; for they were not at the time in alliance

with you. But then, in the treaty entered into with

Hasdrubal, the Saguntines are expressly exempted

from hostilities. In answer to which, I shall urge

nothing but what I have learned from yourselves : for

you asserted that the treaty which your consul Caius

Lutatius at first concluded with us, inasmuch as it

had been concluded without either the approbation of

the senate, 'or an order of the people, was not binding

on you ; and that for that reason another treaty was

ratified anew, under the sanction of public authority.

Now if your treaties do not bind you, unless sanc­

tioned by your approbation and order, surely the

treaty of Hasdrubal, under the same circumstances,

cannot be binding on us. Cease therefore to talk, of

Saguntum, and the Iberus; and let your minds at

length give birth to the burden of which they are long

in labor.' The Roman then, folding up a corner of

his robe, said, ' Here we bring you peace, and war;

take which you choose.' Which proposal they an­

swered with an equal degree of peremtory heat, call­

ing out, that ' he should give whichever he chose.'

He then threw open the fold again, and said that' he

gave war:' they with one voice replied, that ' they ac­

cepted it; and with the same.spirit with which they

accepted it, would prosecute it.'

19. This mode of a direct demand and declaration

