HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK IX. 129

the enemy were slain or taken. Some affirm that this

famous battle was fought on the farther side of the

Ciminian forest, at Perusia; and that the public had

been tinder great dread lest the army might be inclosed

in such a dangerous pass, and overpowered by a gene­

ral combination of the Etrurians and Umbrians. But

on whatever spot it was fought it is certain that the

Roman power prevailed ; and in consequence thereof

ambassadors came from Perusia, Cortona, and Arre-

tium, which were then among the principal states of

Etruria, to solicit a peace and alliance with the Ro­

mans ; and they obtained a truce for thirty years.

38. During these transactions in Etruria the other

consul, Caius Marcius Rutilus, took Allifae by storm

from the Samnites; and many of their forts and smaller

towns were either destroyed by his arms or surren­

dered intire. About the same time also the Roman

fleet, having sailed to Campania under Publius Corne­

lius, to whom the senate had given the command on

the sea coast, put into Pompeii. Immediately on land­

ing the marine soldiers set out to ravage the country

about Nuceria; and after they had quickly laid waste

the parts which lay nearest, and whence they could

have returned to the ships with safety, they were al­

lured by the temptation of plunder, as it often happens,

to advance too far, and thereby roused the enemy

against them. While they rambled about the country

they met no opposition, though they might have been

cut off to a man ; but as they were returning, in a

careless manner, the peasants overtook them, not far

from the ships, stripped them of the booty, and even

slew a great part of them. Those who escaped were

driven in confusion to the ships. As the news of Fa-

bius having marched through the Ciminian forest had

occasioned violent apprehensions at Rome, so it had

excited joy in proportion among the enemy in Sam-

mum : they talked of the Roman army being pent up

and surrounded, and of the Caudine forks, as a model

of what they were to undergo. ' Those people,' they

said, ' ever greedy after farther acquisitions, were now

Liv. vol. ill. I

