HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK X. 197

in the same situation with themselves; hut although

destitute of support, either in their own or in foreign

resources, yet did they not desist from the prosecution

of hostilities. So indefatigably, though unsuccess­

fully, did they struggle in defence of liberty, and

rather than not aspire after victory, chose to subject

themselves to repeated defeats. Who does not find his

patience tired, either in writing or reading of wars of

such continuance, and which yet exhausted not the

resolution of the parties concerned?

32. Quintus Fabius and Publius Decius were suc­

ceeded in the consulship by Lucius Postumius Megel-

lus and Marcus Atilius Regulus. [A. U. C. 458. B. C.

294.] The province of Samniutn was decreed to both

in conjunction; because intelligence had been received

that the enemy had embodied three armies; one for

the recovery of Etruria ; another, to repeat their ra­

vages in Campania ; and the third, intended for the

defence of their frontiers. Sickness detained Postu-

mius at Rome, but Atilius set out immediately, with

design to surprise the enemy in Samnium, before they

should have advanced beyond their own borders; for

such had been the directions of the senate. The Ro­

mans met the enemy, as if by mutual appointment, at

a spot where, while they could be hindered, not only

from ravaging, but even from entering the Samnite

territory, they could likewise binder the Samnites

from continuing their progress into the countries which

were quiet, and the lands of the allies of the Roman

people. While they lay opposite to each other, the

Samnites attempted an enterprise, which the Romans,

so often their conquerors, would scarcely have ven­

tured to undertake ; such is the rashness inspired by

extreme despair; this was an assault on the Roman

camp. And although this attempt, so daring, suc­

ceeded not in its full extent, yet it was not without

considerable effect. There was a fog, which continued

through a great part of the day, so thick as to exclude

the light of the sun, and to prevent not only the view

'of any thing beyond the rampart, but scarcely the

