HISTORY OF HOME.—BOOK X. 157

slay a victim, or take an augury in the citadel? When,

in the inscription on a person's statue, the consulship,

censorship, and triumph, shall be read with patience,

will the eyes of readers be unable to endure the addi­

tion of the office of augur or pontiff? In truth (with

deference to the gods I say it) I trust that we are,

through the kindness of the Roman people, qualified

in such a manner, that we should, by the dignity of

our characters, reflect back on the priesthood as much

lustre as we should receive ; and may demand, rather

on behalf of the gods, than for our own sakes, that

those whom we worship in our private, we may also

worship in a public capacity.

8. ' But why do I argue thus, as if the cause of the

patricians respecting the priesthood stood on untouched

ground? and as if we were not already in possession of

one sacerdotal office of the highest class ? We see

plebeian decemvirs for performing sacrifices, interpre­

ters of the sibylline prophecies, and of the fates of the

nation; we also see them presidents of Apollo's festi­

val, and of other religious performances. Neither was

any injustice done to the patricians when, to the two

commissioners for performing sacrifices, an additional

number was joined in favor of the plebeians; nor is

there now, when a tribune, a man of courage and acti­

vity, wishes to add five places of augurs, and four of

pontiffs, to which plebeians may be nominated : not,

Appius, with intent to expel you from your places, but

that men of plebeian rank may assist you in the ma­

nagement of divine affairs with the same zeal with

which they assist you in matters of human concern­

ment. Blush not, Appius, at having a man your col­

league in the priesthood whom you might have a col­

league in the censorship or consulship; whose master

of the horse you yourself may be when he is dictator,

as well as dictator when he is master of the horse. A

Sabine adventurer, the first origin of your nobility,

either Attus Clausus or Appius Claudius, which you

will, was admitted by the ancient patricians of those

days into their number: do not then, on your part,

