HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK VIII. 39

23. The senate received information from both the

consuls that there waj very little hope of peace with

the Samnites. Publilius informed them that two thou­

sand soldiers from Nolae, and four thousand of the Sam­

nites, had been received into Palrepolis, a measure

rather forced on the Greeks by the Nolans, than agree­

able to their inclination. Cornelius wrote that a levy

of troops had been ordered, that all Samnium was in

motion, and that the neighboring states of Privernum,

Fundi, and Formiae, were openly solicited to join them.

It was thought proper that, before hostilities were com­

menced, ambassadors should be sent to expostulate on

these subjects with the Samnites, who answered in a

haughty manner; they even went so far as to accuse

the Romans of behaving injuriously towards them ; but,

nevertheless, they took pains to acquit themselves of

the charges made against them, asserting that ' their

state had not given either counsel or aid to the Greeks,

nor used any solicitations on their behalf to the Fun-

dians, or Formians: for, if they were disposed to war,

they had not the least reason to be diffident of their

own strength. However, they could not dissemble that

it gave great offence to the state of the Samnites,

that Fregelhe, a town which they had taken from the

Volscians, and demolished,- should have been rebuilt

by the Romans; and that they should have established

a colony within the territory of the Samnites, to which

their colonists gave the name of Fregellae. This injury

and affront, if not done away by the authors, they were

determined themselves to remove by the most effectual

means in their power.' One of the Roman ambassa­

dors proposed to discuss the matter before their com­

mon allies and friends ; on which their magistrate said,

'Why do we disguise our sentiments? Romans, no

conferences of ambassadors, nor arbitration of any per­

son whatever, can terminate our differences; but the

plains of Campania, in which we must fight: let our

armies, therefore, meet between Capua and Suessula ;

and there let us decide, whether the Samnite, or the

Roman, shall hold the sovereignty <}f Italy.' To this

