104 LIVY.

is generally the case, dismayed by the fall of their

leader, but rather roused to fury. All who were within

reach darted their weapons at Aulins, who incautiously

pushed forward among the enemy's troops; but the

chief share of the honor of revenging the death of the

Samnite general was reserved for his brother, who,

urged by rage and grief, dragged down the victorious

master of the horse from his seat, and slew him. As

he fell in the midst of their troops, the Samnites were

also near keeping possession of his body: but the Ro­

mans instantly dismounting, the Samnites were obliged

to do the same; and thus were lines formed suddenly,

and a battle began on foot, round the bodies of the ge­

nerals, in which the Romans had manifestly the advan­

tage ; and recovering the body of Aulius, carried it

back in triumph to the camp, with hearts filled with a

mixture of joy and grief. The Samnites having lost

their commander, and made a trial of their strength in

this contest between the cavalry, left Saticula, which

they despaired of relieving, and returned to the siege

of Plistia: within a few days after which the Romans

got possession of Saticula by capitulation, and the

Samnites of Plistia by force.

23. The seat of the war was then changed. The le­

gions were led away from Samnium and Apulia to

Sora. This city had revolted to the Samnites, and put

to death the Roman colonists. The Roman army hav­

ing arrived here first, by forced marches, with the pur­

pose of revenging the murder of their countrymen, and

recovering possession of the colony, and the scouts who

were scattered about the roads bringing intelligence,

one after another, that the Samnites were following at

no great distance, they marched to meet the enemy,

and at Lautulae fought them with doubtful success.

Neither loss nor flight on either side, but the night,

separated the combatants, uncertain whether they were

victorious or defeated. I find in some historians that

the Romans were worsted in this battle, and that here

Quintus Aulius, the master of the borse, fell. Caius

Fabius, substituted master of the horse in the room of

