306 LIVY.

of the camp, for that also was stormed, and the general

himself, and many principal officers made prisoners.

The town of Scissis too, which stood not far from the

camp, fell into the hands of the conquerors. The spoil

of this town consisted of articles of trifling value ; the

furniture was mean, suiting harbarians, and the slaves

of little price. But the camp amply enriched the sol­

diers with the effects, not only of the army just now

conquerors, but likewise with those of the army serv­

ing under Hannibal, who, to avoid being incumbered

on their march with heavy baggage, had left almost

all their valuable substance on that side of the Pyre­

nees.

61. Hasdrubal, before any certain account of this

disaster reached him, had crossed the Iberus with eight

thousand foot and one thousand horse, intending to

meet the Romans at their first arrival: as soon as he

was informed of the ruin of affairs at Scissis, and the

loss of the camp, he turned his route towards the sea.

Not far from Tarraco, meeting the soldiers belonging

' to the fleet, and the mariners scattered and straggling

through the country, among whom success, as is usual,

had begotten negligence, he detached his cavalry in

several parties against them, and with great slaughter

and greater affright drove them to their ships. But not

daring to continue longer in that quarter, lest he might

be surprised by Scipio, he withdrew to the other side

of the Iberus. On the other band Scipio, on hearing

of this new enemy, hastened to the spot with all expe­

dition, and after punishing a few of the commanders of

ships, and leaving a small garrison at Tarraco, returned

with the fleet to Emporiae. Scarcely had he departed

when Hasdrubal arrived, and having prevailed on the

state of the Illergetans, which ,had given hostages to

Scipio to change sides, he, with the young men of that

state, ravaged the lands of those who adhered with

fidelity to their alliance with the Romans. Afterwards,

on finding that Scipio was roused thereby from his

winter quarters, he again intirely evacuated the coun­

