256 tlVY.

and whatever is dear to you, if any choose to visit

your friends, I now give you leave of absence. At the

beginning of spring I charge you to attend here, in

order that, with the aid of the gods, we may enter on

a war, from which we shall reap abundance both of

honor and riches.' This voluntary offer of leave to

revisit their homes was highly pleasing to almost every

one of them ; for they already longed to see their

friends, and foresaw a longer absence from them likely

to happen. This interval of rest renewed the powers

of their minds and bodies, enabling them to encounter

every hardship anew; for the fatigues they had al­

ready sustained, and those they were soon to undergo,

appeared to be little thought of. At the beginning of

spring they therefore assembled, according to orders.

Hannibal, after reviewing the auxiliaries of the several

nations, went to Gades, where he fulfilled his vows to

Hercules, and bound himself in new ones, in case his

future operations should be crowned with success.

Then dividing his attention between the measures re­

quisite for annoying the enemy and those necessary

for defence, lest, while he should be making his way

to Italy by land through Spain and Gaul, Africa should

be naked and open to an attack of the Romans from

Sicily, he resolved to provide for its security by send­

ing thither a strong body of forces. In the room of

these he required a reinforcement to be sent to him

from Africa, consisting chiefly of light-armed spear­

men. This he did with the view that the Africans

serving in Spain, and the Spaniards in Africa, where

each would be better soldiers at a distance from

home, they might be, as it were, mutual hostages

for the good behavior of each other. He sent into

Africa, of infantry, thirteen thousand eight hundred

and fifty targeteers, with eight hundred and seventy

Balearic slingers ; of cavalry, collected from many na­

tions, one thousand two hundred. Part of these forces

he ordered to garrison Carthage, the rest to be distri­

buted through Africa. At the same time he ordered

four thousand chosen young men, whom he had en­

