HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK IX. 93

lie desired them to ' seek counsel from those by whose

advice they had received that garrison into the city.'

They then departed, and returned to their countrymen,

having obtained from the consul, with much difficulty,

permission to consult their senate, and bring back their

answer to him. Two factions divided the senate; the

leaders of one had been the authors of the defection

from the Roman people ; the other consisted of the citi­

zens who retained their loyalty ; both however showed

an earnest desire that every means should be used to­

wards effecting an accommodation with the consul for

the restoration of peace. As the Samnite garrison,

being in no respect prepared for holding out a siege,

intended to retire the next night out of the town, one

party thought it sufficient to discover to the consul at

what hour, through what gate, and by what road, his

enemy was to march out. The other, who had opposed

the going over to the Samnites, went farther, and

opened one of the gates for the consul in the night,

secretly admitting him into the town. In consequence

of this twofold treachery the Samnite garrison was

surprised and overpowered by an ambush, placed in

the woody places near the road; and, at the same time,

a shout was raised in the city, which was now filled

with the besiegers. Thus, in the short space of one

hour, the Samnites were put to the sword, the Satricans

made prisoners, and all things reduced under the power

of the consul; who, taking proper measures to discover

who were the'instigators of the revolt, scourged with

rods and beheaded such as he found to be guilty ; and

then, disarming the Satricans, he placed a strong gar­

rison in the place. On this, Papirius Cursor proceeded

to Borne to celebrate his triumph, according to the re­

lation of those authors, who say that he was the gene­

ral who retook Luceria, and sent the Samnites under

the yoke. Undoubtedly, as a warrior, he was deserv­

ing of every praise, excelling not only in vigor of mind,

but likewise in strength of body. He possessed extra­

ordinary swiftness of foot, surpassing every one of his

age in running, from whence came the surname into

