HISTORY OF ROME.— BOOK VIII. 23

cution of the war, being provoked at the Sidicinians

having so often taken arms against them, either as

principals or auxiliaries. They therefore exerted their

utmost endeavors to raise to the consulship, the fourth

time, Marcus Valerius Corvus, the greatest general of

that age. [A. U. C. 420. B. C. 332.1 The colleague

joined with him was Marcus Atilius Regulus; and, lest

chance might frustrate their wishes, a request was

made to the consuls that, without casting lots, that

province might be assigned to Corvus. Receiving the

victorious army from the former consuls, he marched

directly to Cales, where the war had its rise ; and

having at the first onset routed the enemy, who were

disheartened by the recollection of the former engage­

ment, he directed his operations against the town itself.

Such was the ardor of the soldiers, that they wanted

to proceed directly up to the walls with ladders, assert­

ing that they would quickly scale them ; but that being

a hazardous attempt, Corvus chose to effect his purpose

by the labor of his men rather than at the expense of

so much danger to them ; he therefore formed a ram­

part, prepared machines, and advanced towers up to

the walls. But an opportunity which accidentally pre­

sented itself prevented his having occasion to use them ;

for Marcus Fabius, a Roman, who was prisoner there,

having broken his chains, while his guards were inat­

tentive on a festival day, by. fastening a rope to one of

the battlements, let himself down among the Roman

works, and persuaded the general to make an assault

on the enemy, while, in consequence of feasting and

drinking, they were disqualified for action. And thus

the Ausonians, together with their city, were captured

with as little difficulty as they had been defeated in

the field. The booty found there was immense; and

the legions, leaving a garrison at Cales, returned to

Rome. The consul triumphed, in pursuance of a de­

cree of the senate; and, in order that At1lius should

n.ot be without a share of honor, both the consuls were

ordered to lead the troops against the Sidic1nians.

But first, in obedience to the senate, they nominated

