HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK VIII. 19

shall choose to devote himself as Decius did, then ' if

he who devotes himself die not, he shall not be capa­

ble of performing with propriety any act of worship

in behalf either of himself or of the public. Let him

have a right to devote his arms to Vulcan, or to any

other god, he shall do it, either by a victim, or in any

other mode. The enemy should, if possible, be hin­

dered from getting possession of the weapon on which

the consul stood when he uttered his imprecation : but

if they chance to attain it, an atonement must be made

to Mars by the sacrifices called Suovetaurilia.' Al­

though the memory of every divine and human rite

has been obliterated through the preference given to

what is new and foreign, above that which is ancient

and the growth of our own country, yet I thought it

not amiss to recite these particulars as they have been

transmitted to us, and even in the very words in which

they were expressed.

11. Several authors relate that the Samnites, having

waited to see the issue of the fight, came up, at length,

with support to the Romans, after the battle was

ended. In like manner a reinforcement from Lavi-

nium, after wasting time in deliberation, set out to the

aid of the Latines, after they had been vanquished ;

and when the first standards and part of the army had

passed the gates, receiving information of the over­

throw of the Latines, they faced about and returned to

the city ; on which their pretor, named Millionius, is

reported to have said, that ' a high price must be paid

to the Romans for so short a journey.' Such of the

Latines as survived the fight, after being scattered

through different roads, collected themselves in a

body and took refuge in the city of Vescia. There

their general Numisius insisted,.in their meetings,

that ' the variable chances of war had ruined both

armies, by equal losses, and that the name only of vic­

tory was on the side of the Romans; and that they

were, in fact, no better than defeated. The two pa­

vilions of their consuls were polluted ; one by the

parricide committed on a son; the other by the death

