Livr.

act under the direction of the gods, displayed the sig­

nal for battle. Just as He was going out to the field

be happened to receive intelligence fronj a deserter

that twenty cohorts of Samaites, consisting of about

four hundred each, had marched towards dominium.

Lest his colleague should be ignorant of this, he in­

stantly despatched a messenger to him, and then or­

dered the troops to advance with speed, having already

assigned to each division of the army its proper post,

and appointed general officers to command them. The

Command of the right wing he gave to Lucius Volum-

nius, that of the left to Lucius Scipio, that of the ca­

valry to the other lieuteaants-general, Caius Caedicius

and Caius Trebonius. He ordered Spurius Nautius to

take off the panniers from, the mules, and to lead them

round quickly, together with his auxiliary cohorts, to

a. rising ground in view, and there to show himself

during the heat of the engagement, and to raise as much

dust as possible. While the general was employed in

making these dispositions a dispute arose among the

keepers of the chickens about the auspices of the day,

which was overheard by some Roman horsemen, who,

deeming it a matter too important to be slighted, in­

formed Spurius Papirius, the consul's nephew, that

there was a doubt about the auspices. The youth born

in an age when that sort of learning which inculcates

contempt of the gods was yet unknown, examined into

the affair, that he might not carry an uncertain report

to the consul; and then acquainted him with it. Hia

answer was, ' I very much applaud your conduct and

zeal. However, the person who officiates in taking the

auspices, if he makes a false report, draws on his own

head the evil portended; but to the Roman people and

their army the favorable omen reported to me is an

excellent auspice.'- He then commanded the centurions

to place the keepers of the chickens in the front of the

line. The San>nites likewise brought forward their

standards followed by their main body, armed and

decorated in such a manner as to afford a magnificent

show. Before the shout was raised, or the battle begun,

