HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK IX. 127

main body of the army before night. At the first light, on

the following day, he had gained the summit of Mount

Ciminius, from whence having a view of the opulent

plains of Etruria, he let loose his soldiers on them.

When a vast body had been driven off, some tumul­

tuary cohorts of Etrurian peasants, hastily collected

by the principal inhabitants of the district, met the Ro­

mans ; but in such disorderly array, that these res-

ouers of the prey were near becoming wholly a prey

themselves. These being slain or put to flight, and

the country laid waste to a great extent, the Romans

returned to their camp victorious, and enriched with

plenty of every kind. It happened, that in the mean

time five deputies, with two plebeian tribunes, had

come hither to charge Fabius, in the name of the se­

nate, not to attempt to pass the Ciminian forest.

These, rejoicing that they had arrived too late to pre­

vent the expedition, returned to Rome with the news

of its success.

37. The consul, by this expedition, instead of bring­

ing the war nearer to a conclusion, only spread it to a

wider extent; for all the tract adjacent to the foot of

Mount Ciminius had felt his devastations ; and, out of

the indignation conceived thereat, had roused to arms,

not only the states of Etruria, but the neighboring

parts of Umbria. They came therefore to Sutrium,

with such a numerous army as they had never before

brought into the field ; and not only ventured to en­

camp on the outside of the wood, but earnestly desirous

of coming to an engagement as soon as possible, marched

down to the plains to offer battle. The troops being

marshalled, stood at first, for some time, on their own

ground, having left a space sufficient for the Romans

to draw up opposite to them ; but perceiving that these

declined fighting,they advanced to the rampart; where,

observing that even the advanced guards had retired

within the works, they at once began to iusist clamor­

ously on their general's ordering provisions for that

day to be brought down to them: ' for they were re­

solved to remain there under arms; and either in the

