HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK VIII.

415. B.C. 337.] The latter elected consuls, Titus Man-

lius Torquatus a third time, and Publius Decius Mus.

It is agreed on all hands that, in this year, Alexander,

king of Epirus, made a descent with a fleet on Italy, in

which expedition, had his first attempts been crowned

with success, he would, without doubt, have carried his

arms against the Romans. This period was also dis­

tinguished by the exploits of Alexander the Great, son'

to the other's sister, who, in another quarter of the

globe, after showing himself invincible in war, was

doomed by fortune to be cut off by sickness in the

prime of life. Now the Romans, although they enter-,

tained not a doubt of the revolt of their allies, and of

the Latine nation, yet, as if they acted in behalf of the.

Samnites, not of themselves, summoned ten of the

chiefs of the Latines to appear at Rome, and receive

their orders. The Latines had at that time two pre-

tors, Lucius Annius, a native of Setia, and Lucius Nu-

micius, of Circei, both Roman colonists ; through whose

means, besides Signia and Velitra:, which belonged to

the Romans, the Yolscians also had been engaged to

join in the war. It was thought proper that these two

should be particularly summoned; every one clearly

perceived on what account they were sent for: the pre-

tors, therefore, before they set out for Rome, called a

general assembly, whom they informed that they were

called to attend the Roman senate, and desired their

opinion with respect to the business which they sup­

posed would be the subject of discussion, and to make

known to them the answers which they chose should

be given on the occasion.

4. After several different opinions had been advanced

Annius said, ' Although I myself proposed the question,

of what answer should be made, yet, in my judgment,

the general interest requires that you determine how

we are to act, rather than how we are to speak. When

your designs shall be clearly unfolded, it will be easy

to adapt words to the subject; for if we are still capa­

ble of submitting to slavery, under the shadow of a

confederacy between equals, what have we more to do

