HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK IX. 83

enemy ? Can a citizen ? To the enemy you engaged

nothing. You ordered no citizen to engage on yonr

behalf. You are therefore no way concerned, either

with us, to whom you gave no commission ; nor with

the Samnites, with whom you transacted no business.

We are sureties to the Samnites ; debtors, whose abili­

ties are sufficiently extensive over that which is our

own, over that which we can offer—our bodies and our

minds. On these let them exercise their cruelty;

against these let them whet their resentment and their

swords. As to what relates to the tribunes, you will

consider whether the delivering them up can be imme­

diately effected, or if it must be deferred to another

day. Meanwhile let us, Titus Veturius, and the rest

concerned, offer our worthless persons as atonements

for the non-performanco of our engagements, and by

our sufferings liberate the Roman armies.'

10. These arguments, and still more, the person by

whom they were delivered, powerfully affected the se­

nators ; as they did likewise every one, not excepting

even the tribunes of the commons, who declared that

they would be directed by the senate. They then in­

stantly resigned their office, and were delivered toge­

ther with the rest to the heralds to be conducted to

Caudium. On passing this decree of senate, it seemed

as if some new light had shone on the state: Postu-

mius was in every mouth : they extolled him to hea­

ven ; and pronounced him to have equalled in glory

even the consul Publins Decius, who devoted him­

self. * Through his counsel and exertions,' they said,

' the republic had raised up its head, after being sunk

in an ignominious peace. He now offered himself to

the enemy's rage, and to torments, and was suffering

in atonement for the Roman people.' All turned their

thoughts towards arms and war, and the general cry

was, ' When shall we be permitted with arms in our

hands to meet the Samnites?' While the state glowed

with resentment and rancor, the levies were composed

almost intirely of volunteers. Legions, composed of

the former soldiers, were quickly formed, and an army

