HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK X. 165

sought not the employment at first, and afterwards,

when he discovered their wishes, even declined it.

' Why,' said he, ' should they impose such a difficult

task on him, who was now in the decline of life, and

had passed through a full course of labors, and of the

rewards of labor? Neither the vigor of his body, nor

of his mind, remained the same ; and he dreaded For­

tune herself, lest some god should think her too bounti­

ful to him, and more constant than the course of human

affairs allowed. He had himself succeeded, in gradual

succession, to the dignities of his predecessors; and he

beheld, with great satisfaction, others rising up to suc­

ceed to his. There was no scarcity at Rome, either of

honors suited to men of the highest merit, or of men of

eminent merit suited to the highest honors.' This dis­

interested conduct, instead of repressing, increased,

while in fact it justified their zeal. But thinking that

this ought to be checked by respect for the laws, he

ordered that clause to be read aloud by which it is for­

bidden that the same person shall be re-elected consul

within ten years. Such a clamor now arose, that the

law was scarcely heard ; and the tribunes of the com­

mons declared that this ' decree should be no impedi­

ment ; for they would propose an order to the people,

that he should be exempted from the obligation of the

laws.' Still he persisted in his opposition, asking, ' To

what purpose were laws enacted, if they were eluded

by the very persons who procured them ? The laws

now,' he said,1 instead of being rulers, were overruled.'

The people, nevertheless, proceeded to vote; and, as

soon as each century was called in, it immediately

named Fabius consul. Then at length, overcome by

the universal wish of the state, he said, ' Romans, may

the gods approve your present, and all your future

proceedings. But since with respect to me you intend

to act according to your own wills, let my interest find

room with you with respect to my colleague. I ear­

nestly request that you will place in the consulship

with me Publius Decius; a man with whom I have

already experienced the utmost harmony in our joint

