234 LIVY.

and succeed to the power of his father. Hanno, the

leader of the other faction, said, ' Although what Has-

drubal demands seems reasonable, nevertheless, I do

not think that his request ought to be granted;' and,

when all turned their eyes on him with surprise at this

ambiguous declaration, he proceeded: ' Hasdrubal

thinks that he is justly intitled to demand from the

son the bloom of youth which he himself dedicated to

the pleasures of Hannibal's father. It would however

be exceedingly improper in us, instead of a military

education, to initiate our young men in the evil prac­

tices of generals. Are we afraid lest too much time

should pass before the son of Hamilcar acquires no­

tions of the unlimited authority, and the parade of his

father's sovereignty ; or that after he had, like a king,

bequeathed our armies as hereditary property to his

son-in-law, we should not soon enough become slaves

to his son ? I am of opinion that this youth should be

kept at home, where he will be amenable to the laws

and to the magistrates ; and that he should be taught

to live on an equal footing with the rest of his coun­

trymen ; otherwise this spark, small as it is, may

hereafter kindle a terrible conflagration.'

4. A few, particularly those of the best understand­

ing, concurred in opinion with Hanno ; but, as it ge­

nerally happens, the more numerous party prevailed

over the more judicious. Hannibal was sent into

Spain, and on his first arrival attracted the notice of

the whole army.' The veteran soldiers imagined that

Hamilcar was restored to them from the dead, ob­

serving in him the same animated look and penetrating

eye; the same expression of countenance, and the

same features. Then, such was his behavior, and so

conciliating, that in a short time the memory of bis

father was the least among their inducements to esteem

him. Never man possessed a genius so admirably

fitted to the discharge of offices so very opposite in their

nature as obeying and commanding: so that it was not

easy to discern whether he were more beloved by the

general or by the soldiers. There was none to whom

