34 LIVY.

of the camp, and his men were in a disposition rather

to fly back thither than to face the enemy. After some

slight efforts he was compelled to give up the contest

intirely; but, by reason of the shortness of the dis­

tance, and the ease with which he could regain his

camp, he saved his army without much difficulty from

any great loss, few falling either in the action or in the

retreat. As soon as it grew dark they removed in

haste and disorder to Privernum, choosing to intrust

their safety to walls rather than to a rampart. The

other consul, Plautius, after wasting the country on

every side, and driving off the spoil, led his army from

Privernum into the territory of Fundi. On entering

the borders he was met by the senate of that state,

who declared that ' they came not to intercede for Vi-

truvius, and those who had followed his faction, but

for the peopl? of Fundi, who, in the judgment of Vi-

truvius himself, were clear from all blame of the war,

as he showed by repairing for safety after his defeat to

Privernum, and not to Fundi, his native city. At

Privernum, therefore, the enemies of the Roman peo­

ple were to be sought and punished; who, regardless

of their duty to both countries, had revolted at once

from Fundi and from Rome. The Fundians were in a

state of peace, their minds were Roman, and impressed

with a grateful remembrance of the privilege of citizens

imparted to them: they besought the consul that he

would not treat as enemies an unoffending people ; as­

suring him that their lands, their city, and their per­

sons, were, and ever should be, in the disposal of the

Roman people.' The consul commended their con­

duct ; and, despatching letters to Rome, that the Fun­

dians had preserved their allegiance, turned his march

to Privernum. Claudius writes that he first inflicted

punishment on those who had been the principal abet­

tors of the conspiracy; that three hundred and fifty

were sent in chains to Rome; but that the senate did

not accept their submission, because they thought that

the people of Fundi meant, by consigning to punish­

ment these men, who were mean and indigent, to se­

cure impunity to themselves.

