HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXI. '257

listed by means of commissaries sent among the several

states, to be conducted to Carthage, both as an addi­

tion of strength and as hostages.

22. Judging also that Spain ought not to be neglected,

in which opinion he was not the less confirmed by hav­

ing been acquainted with the tour made through it by

the Roman ambassadors, for the purpose of engaging

the friendship of the chiefs, he allotted that province

to Hasdrubal his brother, a man of talents and acti­

vity ; and he formed his strength mostly of the troops

from Africa, giving him eleven thousand eight hundred

and fifty African foot, with three hundred Ligurians,

and five hundred Balearians. To these bodies of in­

fantry were added four hundred and fifty horsemen of

the Liby-Phoenicians, a race composed of a mixture of

Phoenicians with Africans ; of Numidians and Mauri-

tanians, who inhabit the coast of the ocean, to the

number of oue thousarid eight hundred ; a small band

of the Ilergetans, a Spanish nation, amounting to two

hundred horsemen ; and, that he might not be desti­

tute of any kind of force which might be useful in

operations on land, fourteen elephants. Also, for the

defence of the sea coast, because, as the Romans had

been formerly victorious at sea, it was probable that

they would now likewise exert themselves in the same

line, a fleet was assigned him of fifty quinqueremes,

two quadriremes, and five triremes; but of these only

thirty-two quinqueremes, and the five triremes, were

fully equipped and manned with rowers. From Gades

he returned to Carthage, the winter-quarters of the

army. Then putting his troops in motion, he led them

by the city of Etovissa to the Iberus and the sea coast.

Here, as is said, he saw in his sleep a youth of divine

figure, who told him that he was sent by Jupiter to

guide him into Italy, and bade him therefore to follow,

and not turn his eyes to any side. Filled with terror,

he followed at first without looking to either side, or

behind ; but afterwards, out of the curiosity natural to

mankind, considering what that could be at which he

was forbidden to look back, he could no longer restrain

uv. vol. ill. R

