HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXI. 299

nians, the only Gallic state that continued faithful to

their cause. This was the force employed in that en­

gagement. The battle was begun by the Balearians;

who being too powerfully opposed by the legions, the

light-armed troops were hastily drawn off to the wings;

which circumstance proved the cause of the Roman ca­

valry being quickly overpowered ; for being in number

but four thousand, they had before been hardly able to

maintain their ground against ten thousand; especially

as they were fatigued, and the others- mostly fresh;

but now they were overwhelmed under a cloud, as it

were, of javelins thrown by the Balearians. Besides

this, the elephants, advancing in the extremities of the

wings, so terrified the horses, as to occasion a general

rout. The fight between the infantry was maintained

by an equality of spirit rather than of strength : for,

with respect to the latter, the Carthaginians had

brought theirs fresh into the battle, invigorated by

food ; the Romans, on the contrary, were enfeebled by

fasting and fatigue, and their limbs stiffened and be­

numbed with cold. They would, notwithstanding, have

maintained their ground by dint of courage, had the

conflict rested solely between them and the infantry.

But the Balearians, after the discomfiture of the ca­

valry, poured darts on their flanks, and the elephants

had now made their way to the centre of the line of

the infantry; while Mage, with his Numidians, as soon

as the army had passed by their lurking place without

observing them, started up at once, and caused dread­

ful confusion and terror in the rear.

56. Encompassed by so many perils, the line, not­

withstanding, stood for a long time unbroken, even

(which was most surprising to all) by the attack of the

elephants. The light infantry, stationed for that pur­

pose, plying these briskly with iron javelins, made

them turn back ; and then, following them behind,

darted their weapons into them under the tails, in

which part, the'skin being softest, it is easy to wound

them. When they were by these means put into dis­

order, and ready to vent their fury on their own party,

