HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXI. 297

whom he employed as spies, (because they were the

better fitted for it, especially as men of that nation

served in both camps,) brought intelligence that the

Romans were prepared for battle; ,on which the Car足

thaginian began to look about for a place where he

might form au ambuscade.

54. In the middle, between the camps, ran a rivulet,

whose banks were uncommonly steep; the adjacent

ground was covered with such herbs as grew in marshes,

with bushes and brambles, which usually overspread

uncultivated ground. On examining the place him足

self, and finding it to be capable of concealing even

horsemen, he said to Mago his brother, ' This is the

spot which you must occupy. Choose out from the

whole number of horse and foot a hundred men of

each, and come with them to me at the first watch. It

is now time to take refreshment.' Thus the attending

officers were dismissed. In some little time Mago

came with his chosen band, and Hannibal said, ' I see

you are very able men; but that you may be strong,

not only in spirit but in number, let each of you choose

nine like yourselves out of the troops and companies :

Mago will show you the place where you are to lie in

wait. You will have to deal with an enemy who is

blind with respect to these stratagems of war.' Hav足

ing thus sent off this detachment of one thousand horse

and one thousand foot under Mago, Hannibal ordered

the Numidian cavalry to cross the river Trebia at the

first light; to ride up to the enemy's gates, and, dig-

charging their weapons against their men on guard, to

draw them out to battle ; and then, as soon as the fight

should be commenced, to retreat leisurely, and by that

means draw them on to the other side of the river.

These were his orders to the Numidians. To the other

officers, both of cavalry and infantry, he gave direc-

' tions to cause their men to take refreshment; and then,

under arms, and with their horses accoutred, to wait

the signal. On the alarm first given by the Numi足

dians, Sempronius, eager for action, led out, first, all

