268 LIVY.

streams, and the plain inclosed between them is called

The Island. The adjacent country is inhabited by the

Allobroges; a nation, even in those times, inferior to

none in Gaul in power and reputation, but at that

juncture weakened by discord. Two brothers dis­

puted the sovereignty. The elder, who had been in­

vested with the government, by name Brancus, was

dispossessed by the younger brother, and a combina­

tion of the younger men ; on which side, though there

was less justice, there was more strength. Most op­

portunely, the parties in this dissension referred their

pretensions to the judgment of Hannibal, who being

appointed arbitrator of the disputed'sovereignty, gave

a decision agreeable to the sense of the senate, and of

the principal men in the state : that the government

should be restored to the elder. In requital of which

favor, he was assisted with a supply of provisions, and

plenty of all kind of necessaries, particularly of cloth­

ing, which the terrible accounts of the cold of the

higher regions made it necessary to provide. After

settling the disputes of the Allobroges, though now

bent on proceeding to the Alps, he took not the direct

road thither, but turned to the left into the country of

the Tricastines ; thence, through the extreme bounda­

ries of the Vocontian territory, he advanced into that

of the Tricorians, meeting no obstruction until he^came

to the river Druentia. This also, deriving its source

from the Alps, is, of all the rivers in Gaul, the most

difficult to pass ; for though conveying a vast body of

water, it admits not the use of ships ; because, being

confined by no banks, it flows in several, and not al­

ways the same channels, continually forming new shal­

lows, and new whirlpools, so that a person is in dan­

ger of missing his way ; and besides rolling down loose

gritty stones, the footing is unsteady. Happening too,

at that time, to be swelled by rains, it caused the ut­

most disorder amo^ig -the troops on their passage, and

which was much increased by their own hurry and

confused clamors.

32. In about three days after Hannibal's moving

