1.34 LIVY.

off to the cavalry, posted on the extremities of the line,

and, exhorting them to join in putting in for a share of

the honor, charged the enemy on the flanks. The Ro­

man legions, on observing the confusion of the Sam­

nites, by being thus assailed on both sides, renewed

the shout, and rushing forcibly on them, they began to

fly. And now the plains were quickly filled with heaps

of bodies and splendid armor. At first their camp re­

ceived the dismayed Samnites; but they did not long

retain even the possession of that: before night it was

taken, plundered, and burnt. The dictator triumphed,

in pursuance of a decree of the senate ; and the most

splendid spectacle by far, of any in his procession, was

the captured arms : so magnificent were they deemed,

that the shields, adorned with gold, were distributed

among the owners of the silver shops, to serve as em­

bellishments to the forum. Hence, it is said, arose the

custom of the forum being decorated by the ediles,

when the grand processions are made, on occasion of

the great games. The Romans, indeed, converted these

extraordinary arms to the honor of the gods : but the

Campanians, out of pride, and in hatred of the foe,

gave them as ornaments to their gladiators, who used

to be exhibited as a show at their feasts, and whom

they distinguished by the name of Samnites. During

this year the consul Fabius fought with the remnants

of the Etrurians at Perusia, which city also had vio­

lated the truce, and gained an easy and decisive vic­

tory. After this he marched up to the walls of the

town, and would have taken it, had not deputies come

out and capitulated. Having placed a garrison at Pe­

rusia, and sent on before him to the Roman senate the

embassies of Etruria, who solicited friendship, the con­

sul rode into the city in triumph, for successes more

important than those of the dictator. Besides, a great

share of the honor of reducing the Samnites was attri­

buted to the lieutenant-generals, Publius Decius and

Marcus Valerius: whom, at the next election, the

people, with universal consent declared the one con­

sul, the other pretor.

