HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK. VIII. 'J I

punishment, as were the Campanian horsemen, he-

cause they had not joined in the revolt. An order was

made that the treaty should be renewed with the Lau-

rentians, and from that time this has been annually

done on the tenth day after the Latine festival. The

privileges of citizens were granted to the Campanian

horsemen ; and as a monument thereof they hung up a

tablet in the temple of Castor at Rome. The people

of Campania were also enjoined to pay them a yearly

stipend of four hundred and fifty denarii1 each ; their

number amounted to one thousand six hundred.

12. The war being thus brought to a conclusion,

Titus Manlius, after distributing rewards and punish­

ments, according to the merits and demerits of each,

returned to Rome. On his arrival there, it appeared

that none but the aged came out to meet him, and that

the young, both then and during the whole of his life,

detested and cursed him. The Antians, having made

inroads on the territories of Ostia, Ardea, and Solonia,

the consul Manlius, unable on account of the ill state

of his health to act against them in person, nominated

dictator Lucius Papirius Crassus, who happened at the

time to be pretor, and he constituted Lucius Papirius

Cursor master of the horse. Nothing worth mention

was performed against the Antians by the dictator, al­

though he kept his army in a fixed camp in the terri­

tory of Antium during several months. To this year,

which was signalised by conquest over so many and

such powerful nations, and besides, by the glorious

death of one of the consuls, and the other's unrelent­

ing severity in command, by which he has been ren­

dered for ever memorable, succeeded, as consuls, Ti­

berius jEmilius Mamerrinus and Quintus Publilius

Philo, [A.U.C. 416. B.C. 336] who found not equal

opportunity for the display of abilities ; and were, be­

sides, more attentive to their private interests, and the

parties which divided the state, than to the public

good. The Latines taking arms again, out of resent-

» 141.10s. 7\d.

