174 LIVY.

lotted to yourself, you should vaunt of coming hither

to succor others.' To this Volumnius rejoined, ' May

Hercules direct all for the hest! for his part, he was

better pleased that he had taken useless trouble, than

that any conjuncture should have arisen which bad

made one consular army insufficient for Etruria.'

19. As the consuls were parting, the lieutenants-

general and tribunes of Appius' army gathered round

them. Some intreated their own general that he

would not reject the voluntary offer of his colleague's

assistance, which he ought to have solicited: the

greater number used their endeavors to stop Volum足

nius, beseeching him ' not, through a peevish dispute

with his colleague, to abandon the interest of the com足

monwealth ; and represented to him that in case any

misfortune should happen, the blame would fall on the

person who forsook the other, not on the one forsaken ;

that the state of affairs was such, that the credit and

discredit of every success and failure in Etruria would

be attributed to Lucius Volumnius : for .no one would

inquire what were the words of Appius, but what the

situation of the army. Appius indeed had dismissed

him, but the commonwealth and the army required his

stay. Let him only make trial of the inclinations of

the soldiers.' By such admonitions and intreaties

they, in a manner, dragged the consuls to an assembly.

There, longer discourses were made to the same pur足

port, as had passed before in the presence of a few.

As Volumnius had the advantage of the argument, so

- did he show himself not deficient in oratory, in despite  
of the extraordinary eloquence of his colleague. On

which Appius observed with a sneer, that' they ought

to acknowlege themselves indebted to him, in having a

consul, who, among his other qualifications, possessed

eloquence also, instead of being dumb and speechless

as he was in their former consulate; when, particu足

larly during the first months, he was not able so much

as to open his lips ; but now, in his harangues, even

aspired after popularity.' Volumnius replied, ' How

much more earnestly do I wish that you had learned

