S14 LIVY.

the servants of the camp, mounted on the mules, drag­

ging boughs of trees, full of leaves, along the ground.

Through this obscuration arms and standards were

seen in front, with cavalry closing the rear. This ef­

fectually deceived not only the Samnites but the Ro­

mans themselves: and the consul confirmed the mis­

take by calling out, among the foremost battalions, so

that his voice reached also the enemy, that ' Cominium

was taken ; and that his victorious colleague was ap­

proaching :' bidding his men ' now make haste to com­

plete the defeat of the enemy before the other army

should come in for a share of the glory.' This he said

as he sat on horseback, and then ordered the tribunes

and centurions to open passages for the horse. He

had given previous directions to Trebonius and Caedi-

cius that, when they should see him waving the point

of his spear aloft, they should cause the cavalry to

charge the enemy with all possible violence. Every

particular, as previously concerted, was executed with

the utmost exactness. The passages were opened be­

tween the ranks; the cavalry darted through; and,

with the points of their spears presented, rushed into

the midst of the enemy's battalions, breaking down the

ranks wherever they charged. Volumnius and Scipio

seconded the blow, and, taking advantage of the ene­

my's disorder, made a terrible slaughter. Thus at­

tacked, the cohorts called linteatae, regardless of all

restraints from either gods or men, quitted their posts

in confusion ; the sworn and the unsworn all fled alike,

no longer dreading aught but the Romans. The re­

mains of their infantry were driven into the camp at

Aquilonia. The nobility and cavalry directed their

flight to Bovianum. The horse were pursued by the

Roman horse, the infantry by their infantry, while the

wings proceeded by different roads; the right to the

camp of the Samnites, the left to the city. Volumnius

succeeded first in gaining possession of the camp. At

the city Scipio met a stouter resistance; not because

the conquered troops there had gained courage, but

because walls were a better defence against armed men

