ICO LIVV.

rule edile with Lucius Papirius Cursor. This I cannot

aver as certain, because Piso, a more ancient writer of

annals, asserts that the curule ediles of that year were

Caius Doinitius Calvinus, son of Cneius, and Spurius

Carvilius Maximus, son of Caius. I am of opinion

that this latter surname caused a mistake concerning

the ediles ; and that thence followed a story, conform足

able to this mistake, patched up out of the two elec足

tions of the ediles and of the consuls. The general

survey was performed this year by Publius Sempro-

nius Sophus and Publius Sulpicius Saverio, censors;

and two tribes were added, the Aniensian and Teren-

tine. Such were the occurrences at Roige1^

10. Meanwhile, after much time had' been lost in

the tedious siege of Nequinum, two of the townsmen,

whose houses were contiguous to the wall, having

formed a subterraneous passage, came by that private

way to the Roman advanced guards; and, being con足

ducted thence to the consul, offered to give admittance

to a body of armed men within the works and walls.

The proposal was thought to be such as ought neither

to be rejected, nor yet assented to without caution.

' With one of these men, the other being detained as a

hostage, two spies were sent through the mine; and

certain information being received from them of the

practicability of the design, three hundred men in

arms, guided by the deserter, entered the city, and

seized by night the nearest gate ; which being broken

open, the Roman consul and his army took possession

of the city without any opposition. In this, manner

came Nequinum under the dominion of the Roman

people. A colony was sent thither as a barrier against

the Umbrians, and called Narnia, from the river Nar.

The troops returned to Rome with abundance of spoil.

This year the Etrurians made preparations for war in

violation of the truce. But a vast army of the Gauls

making an irruption into their territories, while their

attention was directed to another quarter, suspended

for a time the execution of their design. They then,

relying on the abundance of money which they pos足

