HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK VIII. G?

ing him, a decree was made ' that Brutulus Papius

should be delivered into the hands of the Romans; and

that, together with him, all the spoil taken from the

Romans and the prisoners should be sent to Rome,

and that the restitution demanded by the heralds, in

conformity to treaty, should be made, as was agreeable

to justice and equity.' In pursuance of this determi­

nation heralds were sent to Rome, and also the dead

body of Brutulus; for, by a voluntary death, he avoided

the punishment and ignominy intended for him. It

was thought proper that his goods also should be de­

livered up along with the body. But none of all those

things were accepted, except the prisoners, and such

articles of the spoil as were recognised by the owners.

The dictator obtained a triumph by a decree of the

senate.

40. Some writers affirm that the consuls had the con­

duct of this war, and that they triumphed over the Sam-

nites; and also, that Fabius advanced into Apulia, and

carried off from thence abundance of spoil. But that

Aulus Cornelius was dictator that year is an undis­

puted fact. The question then is, whether he was ap­

pointed for the purpose of conducting the war, or on

occasion of the illness of Lucius Plautius, the pretor,

in order that there might be a magistrate to give the

signal for the starting of the chariots at the Roman

games. This latter is asserted of him ; and that after

performing the' business, which in truth reflected no

great lustre on his office, he resigned the dictatorship.

It is not easy to determine between either the facts or

the writers, which of them deserves the preference : I

am persuaded that history has been much corrupted by

means of funeral panegyrics, and false inscriptions on

monuments; each family striving by false representa­

tions to appropriate to itself the fame of warlike ex­

ploits and public honors. From this cause, certainly,

much confusion has taken place, both in the memoirs

of individuals, and in the public records of events. Nor

is there extant any writer, contemporary with those

events, on whose authority we can with certainty rely.

