HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXI. 281

have kept them shut up at Eryx until they perished

with hunger, the severest suffering that man can un­

dergo ; we might have carried over our victorious fleet

to Africa; and in the space of a few days, without op­

position, have demolished Carthage. At tbeir suppli­

cations we granted pardon: we gave them liberty to

depart from the place where we held them confined:

after conquering them we made peace with them: af­

terwards, when they were distressed by a war in Africa,

we considered them as infilled to our protection. In

return for these favors they follow the lead of a hot-

brained youth, and come to invade our country. I

wish that on our side this contest was merely for

glory, and not for safety. We are not to fight about

the possession of Sicily and Sardinia, the subjects of

the former dispute, but in defence of Italy ; neither is

there another army behind us, which, if we fail to

conquer, might withstand the enemy ; nor are there

other Alps, during his passage over which new forces

might be procured. Here, soldiers, we must make a

stand, as if we were fighting under the walls of Rome.

Let every one persuade himself that he is protecting

with his arms, not only his own person, but his wife,

and liis infant children. Nor let him consider solely

his own domestic concerns, but frequently reflect that

the senate and people of Rome look for safety at our

hands ; that our strength, and our courage, are now to

determine what will henceforth be the condition of

that city and of the Roman empire.'

42. Thus, on the side of the Romans, was the con­

sul employed. Hannibal, choosing to rouse the cou­

rage of his soldiers by the exhibition of facts bef ore he

made use of words, formed his troops in a circle, and

then placed in the middle the prisoners taken on the

mountains, bound in fetters; when, such arms as are

used by the Gauls being thrown at their feet, he or­

dered an interpreter to ask whether any of them were

willing, on the condition of being released from bonds,

—and, in case of proving victorious, of receiving each

