HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXI. 235

Hasdrubal rather wished to intrust the command in

any case where courage and activity were required;

nor did the soldiers ever feel a greater degree of con­

fidence and boldness under any other commander.

With perfect intrepidity in facing danger, he pos­

sessed, in the midst of the greatest, perfect presence of

mind. No degree of labor could either fatigue his

body or break bis spirit: heat and cold he endured

with equal firmness: the quantity of his food and

drink was limited by natural appetite, not by the plea­

sure of the palate. His seasons for sleeping and

waking were not distinguished by the day, or by the

night; whatever time he had to spare, after business

was finished, that he gave to repose, which however

he never courted, either by a soft bed or quiet retire­

ment : he was often seen, covered with a cloak, lying

on the ground in the midst of the soldiers on guard,

and on the advanced posts. His dress had nothing

particular in it beyond that of others of the same

rank; his horses and his armor he was always re­

markably attentive to: and whether he acted among

the horsemen, or the infantry, he was eminently the

first of either, the foremost in advancing to the fight,

the last who quitted the field of battle. These great

virtues were counterbalanced in him by vices of equal

magnitude; inhuman cruelty ; perfidy beyond that of

a Carthaginian ; a total disregard of truth, and of

every obligation deemed sacred : utterly devoid of all

reverence for the gods, he paid no regard to an oath,

no respect to religion. Endowed with such a disposi­

tion, a compound of virtues and vices, he served under

the command of Hasdrubal for three years, during

which he omitted no opportunity of improving himself

in every particular, both of theory and practice, that

could contribute to the forming of an accomplished

general.

5. But, from the day on which he was declared

chief, he acted as if Italy had been decreed to him as

his province, and he had been commissioned to wage

war with Rome. Thinking every kind of delay im»

