132 LIVY.

Besides this, the Etrurians having made a levy of

troops, enforced by the sanctions of the devoting law,

each man choosing another, came to an engagement at

the Cape of Vadimon, with more numerous forces,

and, at the same time, with greater spirit than they

had ever shown before. The battle was fought with

such animosity that no javelins were thrown by either

party: swords alone were made use of; and the fury

of the combatants was still higher inflamed by the long-

continued contest; so that it appeared to the Romans

as if they were disputing, not with Etrurians, whom

they had so often conquered, but with a new race.

Not the least intention of giving ground appeared in

any part; the first lines fell; and, lest the standards

should be exposed without defence, the second lines

were formed in their place. At length, even the last

reserves were called into action ; and such was the ex足

tremity of the difficulty and danger, that the Roman

cavalry dismounted, and pressed forward, through

heaps of arms and bodies, to the front ranks of the in足

fantry. A new army, as it were, thus starting up,

disordered the battalions of the Etrurians; and the

rest, weak as their condition was, seconding this at足

tack, broke at last through the enemy's ranks. Their

obstinacy then began to give way: some companies

quitted their posts, and, as soon as they once turned

their backs, betook themselves to open flight. That

day first broke the strength of the Etrurians, now

grown exuberant through a long course of prosperity;

all the flower of their men were cut off, and the Ro足

mans, without halting, seized and sacked their camp.

40. Equal danger, and an issue equally glorious,

soon after attended the war with the Samnites; who,

besides their many preparations for the field, made no

little glitter with new decorations of their armor. Their

troops were in two divisions, one of which had their

shields embossed with gold, the other with silver. The

shape of the shield was this: broad at the middle to

cover the breast and shoulders, and flat at top, sloping

off gradually so as to become pointed below, that it

