HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK X. 215

than a rampart. From these they repelled the enemy

with stones. Scipio considering that unless the busi­

ness were effected during their first panic, and before

they could recover their spirits, the attack of so strong

a town would be very tedious, asked his soldiers ' if

they could endure, without shame, that the other wing

should already have taken the camp, and that they,

after all their success, should be repulsed from the

gates of the city V Then, all of them loudly declaring

their determination to the contrary, he himself ad­

vanced the foremost to the gate, with his shield raised

over his head : the rest, following under the like cover

of their shields conjoined, burst into the city, and dis­

persing the Samnites, who were near the gate, took

possession of the walls, but were deterred from push­

ing forward by the smallness of their number.

42. Of these transactions the consul was for some

time ignorant, and was busily employed in calling

home his troops, for the sun was now hastening to set,

and the approach of night rendered every place suspi­

cious and dangerous, even to victorious troops. Hav­

ing rode forward a considerable way, he saw on the

right the camp taken, and heard on the left a shouting

in the city, with a confused noise of fighting and cries

of terror. This happened while the fight was going on

at the gate. When, on riding up nearer, he saw his

own men on the walls, and so much progress already

made in the business, pleased at having gained through

the precipitate conduct of a few an opportunity of

striking an important blow, he ordered the troops

whom he had sent back to the camp to be called out,

and to march to the attack of the city: these, having

made good their entrance on the nearest side, pro­

ceeded no farther, because night approached. Before

morning, however, the town was abandoned by the

enemy. There were slain of the Samnites on that day,

at Aquilonia, thirty thousand three hundred and forty;

taken, three thousand eight hundred and seventy, with

ninety-seven military standards. One circumstance

respecting Papirius is particularly mentioned by his­

