HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK X. 181

together with one mind and one spirit.' Observed that

' they were men qualified by nature for military com­

mand : great in action, but unpractised in the strife of

words, their talents were such as eminently became

consuls. As to the artful and the ingenious lawyers

and orators, such as Appius Claudius, they ought to

be kept at home to preside in the city and the forum ;

and to be appointed pretors for the administration of

justice/ In these proceedings that day was spent, and,

on the following, the elections both of consuls and pre-

tor were held, and were guided by the recommendations

suggested by the consul. Quintus Fabius and Publius

Decius were chosen consuls ; Appius Claudius pretor;

all of them absent; and, by a decree of the senate, fol­

lowed by an order of the commons, Lucius Volumnius

was continued in the command for another year.

23. During that year many prodigies happened. To

avert the evils which they might portend, the senate

decreed a supplication for two days : the wine and

frankincense for the sacrifices were furnished at the

expense of the public; and numerous crowds of men

and women attended the performance. This supplica­

tion was rendered remarkable by a quarrel which broke

out among the matrons in the chapel of patrician chas­

tity, which stands in the cattle market, near the round

temple of Hercules. Virginia, daughter of Aulus, a

patrician, but married to Volumnius the consul, a ple­

beian, was on that account excluded by the matrons

from sharing in the sacred rites: a short altercation

ensued, which was afterwards, through the intempe­

rance of passion incident to the sex, kindled into a

flame of contention. Virginia boasted with truth that

she had a right to enter the temple of patrician chastity,

as being of patrician birth, and chaste in her character,

and, besides, the wife of one, to whom she was be­

trothed a virgin, and had no reason to be ashamed

either of her husband, or of his exploits or honors: to

her high-spirited words she added importance by an

extraordinary act. In the long street, where she re­

sided, she inclosed with a partition a part of the house,

