HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK IX. 77

eyes: so deeply were they affected by shame and

grief, that they shunned the conversation of these their

friends. Next day, when some young nobles, who had

been sent from Capua to escort them on their road to

the frontiers of Campania, returned, they were called

into the senate-house, and, in answer to the inquiries

of the elder members, said, that ' to them they seemed

deeply sunk in melancholy and dejection ; that the

whole body moved on in silence, almost as if they

were dumb ; the former genius of the Romans was

struck mute, and that their spirit had been taken from

them, together with their arms. Not one gave answer

to those who saluted them ; as if, through fear, they

were unable to utter a word; and that their necks

still carried the yoke under which they had been sent.

That the Samnites had obtained a victory, not only

glorious but lasting; for they had subdued, not Rome

merely, as the Gauls had formerly done, but what was

a much more warlike achievement, the Roman cou­

rage.' These discourses were attentively listened to,

and lamentations made in this assembly of faithful al­

lies, as if the Roman name were almost extinct. We

are told that Ofilius Calavius, son of Ovius, a man

highly distinguished both by his birth and conduct,

and at this time farther respectable on account of his

age, declared that he entertained a very different opi­

nion in the case. ' This obstinate silence,' said he;

' those eyes fixed on the earth ; those ears deaf to all

comfort, with the shame of beholding the light, are

indications of a mind calling forth, from its inmost re­

cesses, the utmost exertions of resentment. Either he

was ignorant of the temper of the Romans, or that si­

lence would shortly excite, among the Samnites, la­

mentable cries and groans; for that the remembrance

of the Caudine peace would be much more sorrowful

to the Samnites than to the Romans. Each side would

have their own native spirit, wherever they should

happen to engage, but the Samnites would not, every

where, have the glens of Caudium.'

7. People at Rome were, by this time, informed of

