292 LIVY.

boldened by the recollection of their former successes

near that very spot, and by confidence in the number

and bravery of their men.

50. When they got info the open sea, the Romans

showed a desire of coming up with the enemy, and

trying their strength with them in close fight. The

Carthaginians, on the contrary, wished to elude their

attacks, to effect the business by skill, not by force,

and to make it a contest of ships, not of men or arms:

for there was on board their fleet an abundance of

mariners, but a scarcity of soldiers, and when a ship

was grappled, their number of fighting men to defend

it was by no means equal to that of the enemy. This

circumstance being discovered, the Romans assumed

additional courage from the fulness of their numbers ;

and while the others were dispirited by their deficiency

in that respect, seven Carthaginian ships were quickly

surrounded, and the rest betook themselves to flight.

In the captured ships, there were of soldiers and mari­

ners one thousand seven hundred, among whom were

three Carthaginian nobles. The Roman fleet without

loss returned into the harbor, one ship only being

bulged, and even that brought into port. Very soon

after this battle, before those who were at Messana had

heard of it, Tiberius Sempronius, the consul, came to

that city. On his entering the strait, king Hiero,

with a fleet completely equipped, sailed to meet him,

and going from the royal galley on board that of the

consul, congratulated him on his safe arrival with his

ships and army. After praying for a successful and

happy issue to his expedition into Sicily, he repre­

sented to him the state of the island and the attempt

lately made by the Carthaginians, assuring him that, as

he had in the early part of his life supported the Roman

people in the former war, so would he now, advanced

as he was in years, support them still with the same

degree of spirit; that he would, at his own expense,

furnish the consul's legions, and the crews of his ships,

with corn and clothing; and then, acquainting him that

