HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK X. 205

slain or taken prisoners. The number of the prisoners

was seven thousand three hundred, who were all sent

under the yoke ; the killed amounted to four thousand

eight hundred. The victory was not obtained without

loss of blood on the side of the Romans: when the

consul took an account of the loss sustained in the two

days, the number returned of soldiers lost was seven

thousand three hundred. During these transactions

in Apulia, the Samnites attempted to seize on Inte-

ramna, a Roman colony situated on the Latine road,

but being disappointed in their design on the town, em­

ployed their troops in ravaging the country ; whence,

as they were driving off spoil, consisting of men and

cattle, together with the colonists who fell into their

hands, they met the consul returning victorious from

Luceria, and not only lost their booty, but marching

in disorder, in a long train, and heavily encumbered,

were themselves cut to pieces. The consul by procla­

mation summoned the owners to lnteramna, to claim

and receive again their property, and leaving his army

there, went to Rome to hold the elections. On his ap­

plying for a triumph, that honor was refused him, be­

cause he had lost so many thousands of his soldiers ;

and also, because he had sent the prisoners under the

yoke without imposing any conditions.

37. The other consul, Postumius, finding no employ­

ment for his arms in Samnium, led over his forces into

Etruria, where he first laid waste the lands of the Vol-

sinians: and afterwards, on their marching out to pro­

tect their country, gained a decisive victory over them

at a small distance from their own walls. Two thou­

sand two hundred of the Etrurians were slain ; the rest

owed their safety to the city being so near. The army

was then led into .the territory of Rusella, and there,

not only were the lands wasted, but the town itself

taken. More than two thousand men were made pri­

soners, and somewhat less than that number killed on

the walls. But a peace effected that year in Etruria,

was still more important and honorable than the war

had been. Three very powerful cities of Etruria,

