HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK X. 185

a commander. Seeing so great a multitude collected

round him, he said, 'My intention is to enlist only four

thousand foot, and six hundred horse: such of you as

give in your names to-day and to-morrow I will carry

with me. I am more solicitous to bring home all my

soldiers rich than to employ a great multitude.' Ac­

cordingly, with a competent number of men, who pos­

sessed greater hopes and confidence, because a nume­

rous army had not been required, he marched to the

town of Aharna, from which the enemy were not far

distant, and proceeded to the camp of the pretor Ap-

pius. When be came within a few miles of it, he was

met by some soldiers sent to cut wood, attended by a

guard. Observing the lictors preceding him, and learn­

ing that he was Fabius the consul, they were filled with

joy; and expressed warm thanks to the gods, and to

the Roman people, for having sent them such a com­

mander. Then, as they gathered round to pay their

respects, Fabius inquired whither they were going ;

and on their answering they were going to provide

wood; 'What do you tell me,' said he; 'have you

not a rampart raised about your camp?'—' They had,'

they replied, ' a double rampart and a trench ; and,

notwithstanding, were in great apprehension.' ' Well,

then,' said he, ' you have abundance of wood ; go back

and level the rampart.' They accordingly returned to

the camp; and there levelling the rampart, threw the

soldiers who had remained in it, and Appius himself,

into the greatest fright, until, with eager joy, each

called out to the rest that ' they acted by order of the

consul, Quintus Fabius.' Next day they decamped,

and the pretor Appius was dismissed to Rome. From

that time the Romans had no fixed post; the consul

affirming that it was prejudicial to an army to lie in

one spot; and that by frequent marches, and changing

places, it was rendered more healthy, and more capa­

ble of brisk exertions: and this he practised as long as

the season permitted, tlie winter being not yet ended.

Then, in the beginning of spring, leaving the second

legion near Clusium, which they formerly called the

