HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXI. 243

they are in beginning a warfare, so much the more un­

relenting, I fear, will prove the fury of their resent­

ment when they do begin. Place before your eyes

the islands jEgates and Eryx, the calamities which you

underwent on land and sea, during the space of twenty-

four years; nor were your troops then led by this boy,

but by his father Hamilcar, another Mars, as those men

choose to call him. But at that time we had not, as we

were bound by treaty, avoided interfering with Taren-

tum in Italy, as at present we do not avoid interfering

with Saguntum. Wherefore gods and men united to

conquer us, and the question which words could not

determine, ' Which of the nations had infringed the

treaty?' the issue of the war made known, as an equi­

table judge, giving victory to that side on which justice

stood. Hannibal is now raising works and towers

against Carthage; with his battering rams he is shaking

the walls of Carthage. The ruins of Saguntum (oh !

that I may prove a false prophet!) will fall on our

heads: and the war commenced against the Saguntines

must be maintained against the Romans. Some will

say, ' Shall we then deliver up Hannibal?' I am sensi­

ble that, with respect to him, my authority is of little

weight, on account of the enmity between me and his

father. But as I rejoiced at the death of Hamilcar,

for this reason, that had he lived, we should now have

been embroiled in a war with the Romans, so do I hate

and detest this youth as a fury and a firebrand kindling

the like troubles at present. Nor is it my opinion,

merely, that he ought to be delivered up, as an expia­

tion for the infraction of the treaty, but that, if no one

demanded him, he ought to be conveyed away to the

remotest coasts, whence no accounts of him, nor even

his name, should ever reach us, and where he would

not be able to disturb the tranquillity of our state. I

therefore move you to resolve that ambassadors be

sent instantly to Rome, to make apologies to the senate;

others, to order Hannibal to withdraw the troops from

Saguntum, and to deliver up Hannibal himself to the

Romans, in conformity to the treaty ; and that a third

