148 LIVY.

two thousand men ; many of whom, at the last, in at­

tempting to make their way out, rushed into the very

flames. [A.U.C. 451. B.C. 301.] The two Marci,

Livius Denter and iEmilius, succeeding to the con­

sulship, war broke out again with the iEquaus, who,

being highly displeased at the colony established with­

in their territory, as if it were a fortress to keep them

in awe, made an attempt with their whole force to

seize it, but were repulsed by the colonists themselves.

They caused however such an alarm at Rome, that to

quell this insurrection, Caius Junius Bubulcus was

nominated dictator: for it was scarcely credible that

the jEquans, after being reduced to such a degree of

weakness, should by themselves alone have ventured

to engage in a war. The dictator taking the field with

Marcus Titinius, master of the horse, in the first en­

gagement, reduced the oEquans to submission; and

returning into the city in triumph on the eighth day,

dedicated in the character of dictator the temple of

Health, which he had vowed when consul, and con­

tracted for when censor.

2. During this year a fleet of Grecians, under the

command of Cleonymus, a Lacedaemonian, arrived on

the coast of Italy, and took Thuriae, a city in the ter­

ritory of the Sallentines. Against this enemy the consul

jEmilius was sent, who in one battle completely defeated

them, and without farther opposition drove them on

board their ships. Thuriae was then restored to its

old inhabitants, and peace re-established in the coun­

try of the Sallentines. In some annals I find that

Junius Bubulcus was sent dictator into that country,

and that Cleonymus, without hazarding an engagement

with the Romans, retired out of Italy. He then sailed

round the promontory of Brundusium, and steering

down the middle of the Adriatic gulf, because he

dreaded on the left hand the coasts of Italy destitute

of harbors, and on the right the Illyrians, Liburnians,

and Istrians, nations of savages, and noted in general

for piracy, he passed on to the coasts of the Venetians.

Here, having landed a small party to explore the

