52 LIVY.

would wish the Samnites in possession of victory ra­

ther than the Romans. He talked much of contempt

of orders; as if his prohibition of fighting were not

dictated by the same motive whrch caused his vexa­

tion at the fight having taken place. He wished to

shackle the valor of others, and meant to take away

the soldiers' arms when they were most eager for ac­

tion, and that no use might be made of them in his

absence : he was farther enraged too, because Quin-

tus Fabius considered himself as master of the horse,

not as a beadle to the dictator. How would he have

behaved had the issue of the fight been unfortunate ;

which, through the chances of war and the uncertainty

of military operations, might have been the case; since

now, when the enemy has been vanquished, (as com­

pletely indeed as if that leader's own singular talents

had been employed in the matter,) he yet threatens

the master of the horse with punishment ? Nor is his

rancor greater towards the master of the horse than

towards the military tribunes, towards the centurions,

towards the soldiers. On all he would vent his rage ;

and because that is not in his power, he vents it on

one. Envy, like flame, soars upwards ; aims at the

summit, and makes its attack on the head of the busi­

ness, on the leader. If he could put him out of the

way, together with the glory of the service performed,

he would then triumph like a conqueror over van­

quished troops; and without scruple practise against

the soldiers what he had been allowed to act against

their commander. It behoved them therefore in his

cause to support the general liberty of all. If the

dictator perceived among the troops the same una­

nimity in justifying their victory, that they had dis­

played in gaining it, and that all interested themselves

in the safety of one, it would bend his temper to

milder counsels. In fine,' he told them, ' that he com­

mitted his life and all his interests to their honor and

to their courage.'

32. His speech was received with the loudest accla­

mations from every part of the assembly, bidding him

