HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK X. 177

their recent ravages ; and the people of that town in­

formed him that the enemy carried with them such a

quantity of spoil, that they could scarcely observe any

order in their march ; and that the commanders then

directed publicly that the troops should go immedi­

ately to Samnium, deposit the booty there, and return

to the business of the expedition, as an engagement

must not be hazarded while they were so heavily

laden. Notwithstanding that this account carried

every appearance of truth, he yet thought it necessary

to obtain more certain information: accordingly he de­

spatched some horsemen to seize on some of the strag­

gling marauders: from these he learned, on inquiry,

that the enemy lay at the river Vulturnus ; that they

intended to remove thence at the third watch ; and

that their route was towards Samnium. On receiving

this intelligence, which could be depended on, he put

his troops in motion, and sat down at such a distance

from the enemy, as was sufficient to prevent their dis­

covering his approach, and, at the same time, left it in

his power to surprise them, as they should be coming

out of their camp. A long time before day he drew

nigh to their post, and sent persons who understood

the Oscan language, to discover how they were em­

ployed : these, mixing with the enemy, which they

could easily do during the confusion in the night,

found that the,standards had gone out thinly attended;

that the booty, and those appointed to guard it, were

then setting out, a contemptible train : each busied

about his own affairs, without any concert with the

rest, or much regard to orders. This the consul

judged the fittest lime for the attack; and, daylight

now approaching, he gave orders to sound the charge,

and fell on the enemy as they were marching out.

The Samnites being embarrassed with the spoil, and

very few armed, were at a loss how to act. Some

quickened their pace, and drove the prey before them ;

others baited, deliberating whether it would be safer

to advance, or to return again to the camp ; and while

they hesitated, they were overtaken and cut off. The

liv. " vol. in. M

