HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOR X. 223

47. The favor of the consul saved from a trial, be­

fore the people, Postumius; who, on a prosecution

being commenced against him by Marcus Scantius,

plebeian tribune, evaded, as was said, the jurisdiction

of the people, by procuring the commission of lieute­

nant-general, so that he could only be threatened with

it. The year having now elapsed, new plebeian tri­

bunes had come into office ; and even these, in conse­

quence of some irregularity in their appointments,

had, within five days after, others substituted in their

room. The lustrum was closed this year by the cen­

sors Publius Cornelius Arvina and Caius Marcius Ru-

tilus. The number of citizens rated was two hundred

and sixty-two thousand three hundred and twenty-two.

These were the twenty-sixth pair of censors since the

first institution of that office ; and this the nineteenth

lustrum. In this year persons who had been presented

with crowns, in consideration of meritorious behavior

in war, first began to wear them at the exhibition of

the Roman games. At the same time was first intro­

duced from Greece the practice of bestowing palms on

the victors in the games. In the same year the curule

ediles, who exhibited those games, completed the

paving of the road from the temple of Mars to Bovillae,

out of fines levied on the farmers of the public pas­

tures. Lucius Papirius presided at the consular elec­

tion, and returned consuls Quintus Fabius Gurges,

son of Maximus, and Decius Junius Brutus Scacva.

Papirius himself was made pretor. The many pros­

perous events of this year were scarcely sufficient to

aflford consolation for one calamity, a pestilence, which

afflicted both the city and country, and caused a pro­

digious mortality. To discover what end, or what re­

medy was appointed by the gods for that calamity,

the books were consulted, and there it was found that

jEsculapius must be brought to Rome from Epidaurus.

However, as the consuls had full employment in the

wars, no farther steps were taken in that business dur­

ing this year, except the performing a supplication to

jEsculapius of one day's continuance.

