32 Ll VY.

shall relate the matter as it has been handed down to

us. While the principal persons of the state died by

disorders of the same kind, and which were attended

with the same issue in every case, a certain maid ser­

vant undertook, before Quintus Fabius Maximus, cu-

rule edile, to discover the cause of the general malady,

provided security were given ber, on the public faith,

that she should not be a sufferer in consequence. Fa­

bius immediately reported the affair to the consuls, and

the consuls to the senate ; and, by order of that body,

the public faith was pledged to the informer. She

then stated to them that the calamity which afflicted

the nation was caused by the wicked contrivances of

certain women ; that some matrons were, at the time,

preparing drugs for the purpose; and that, if they

would be pleased to go along with her without delay,

they might detect them in the fact. Accordingly they

followed the informant, and found several women pre­

paring drugs, and also quantities of the same laid up;

which being brought into the forum, and the matrons

in whose custody they were found, to the number of

twenty, being summoned by a beadle, two of them,

Cornelia and Sergia, both of patrician families, asserted

that those drugs were wholesome ; while the informant

maintained the contrary, and insisted on their drinking

them, in order to convict her of having invented a

falsehood. On this, having taken time to confer toge­

ther, and in the open view of all, a space being cleared

for them, they drank off the preparation, and all pe­

rished by means of their own wicked device. Their

attendants, being instantly seized, gave information

against a great number of matrons, of whom no less

than one hundred and seventy were condemned. Until

that day no person had ever been tried at Rome for

poisoning. The affair was deemed a prodigy, and

seemed more the result of madness than of vicious de­

pravity. Wherefore, mention being found in the an­

nals that formerly, on occasion of the secessions of the

commons, a disastrous time, the ceremony of driving

the nail had been performed by a dictator, and that by

