HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXI. 287

valry to reconnoitre the adjacent grounds. For some

time neither party descried the other. Afterwards the

dust being raised in thicker clouds by the moving of so

many men and horses, gave notice of approaching ene­

mies: both detachments halted, and made ready for

battle. Scipio placed his spearmen and Gallic ca­

valry in front, keeping the Romans and the body of

allies which accompanied him as a reserve. Hannibal

drew the bridled cavalry into the centfe, strengthening

his wings with the Numidians. The shout was scarcely

raised before the spearmen fled to the second line; then

the battle was maintained by the cavalry, for a con­

siderable time with doubtful success; but afterwards,

in consequence of the confusion caused among the

horses by the footmen being intermixed with them,

many of the riders fell from their seats, and others, on

seeing their friends surrounded and distressed, dis­

mounted to assist them; so that the fight was now car­

ried on mostly on foot, until the Numidians, posted on

the wings, taking a small compass, showed»themselves

on the rear. This terrified and dismayed the Romans,

whose fears were augmented by a wound received by

the consul, who was rescued from farther danger by

the speedy intervention of his son, just arrived at the

age of maturity. This is the same youth who is after­

wards to enjoy the renown of terminating this war, and

to receive the title of Africanus, on account of his glo­

rious victory over Hannibal and the Carthaginians.

However, very few fled precipitately, except the spear­

men, on whom the Numidians made the first charge.

The rest formed a compact body of cavalry; who,

taking the consul into their centre, and covering him,

not only with their arms, but with their bodies, without

any disorder or precipitation in their retreat, brought

him back to the camp. Coelius attributes the honor of

saving the consul to a slave, by nation a Ligurian: but

I rather wish the account to be true which gives it to

his son ; and so the fact is represented by most authors,

and generally believed.

