I43 LIVY.

in the Campanian territory. Both the consuls were

therefore sent into Samnium, and proceeded to different

regions, Postumius to Tifernum, Minucius to Bovia-

num. The first engagement happened at Tifernum,

where Postumius commanded. Some say that the

Samnites were completely defeated, and twenty thou­

sand of them made prisoners. Others, that the army

separated without victory on either side; and that

Postumius, counterfeiting fear, withdrew his forces

privately by night, and marched away to the mountains;

whither the enemy also followed, and took possession

of a stronghold two miles distant. The consul, having

created a belief that he had come thither for the sake

of a safe post, and a fruitful spot, (and such it really

was,) secured his camp with strong works. Furnishing

it with magazines of every thing useful, he left a strong

guard to defend it; and at the third watch led away

the legions lightly accoutred, by the shortest road which

he could take, to join his colleague, who lay opposite

to his foe. There, by advice of Postumius, Minucius

came to an engagement; and when the fight had con­

tinued doubtful through a great part of the day, Post­

umius, with his fresh legions, made an unexpected

attack on the enemy's line, spent by this time with

fatigue : thus, weariness and wounds having rendered

them incapable even of flying, they were cut off to a

man, and twenty-one standards taken. The Romans

then proceeded to Postumius' station, where the two

victorious armies falling on the enemy, already dis­

mayed by the news of what had passed, routed and dis­

persed them : twenty-six military standards were taken

here, and the Samnite general, Statius Gellius, with a

great number of other prisoners, and both the camps,

fell into the hands of the conquerors. Next day Bovia-

nuui was besieged, and soon after taken. Both the

consuls were honored with a triumph, and with high

applause of their excellent conduct. Some writers say

that the consul Minucius was brought back to the camp

grievously wounded, and that he died there ; that Mar­

cus Fulvius was substituted consul in his place, and

