HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK IX. 99

himself to casualties ; the Romans would have had

many equal to Alexander, both in renown, and in the

greatness of their exploits; the life or death of any

one of whom would have affected only his own con­

cerns, without any material consequence to the pub­

lic.

19. It remains to compare the forces together, with

respect to their numbers, the different kinds of troops,

and their resources for procuring auxiliaries. Now, in

the general surveys of that age, there were rated two

hundred and fifty thousand men : so that, on every

revolt of the Latine confederates, ten legions were en­

listed almost intirely in the city. It often happened

during those years that four or five armies were em­

ployed at a time, in Etruria, in TJmbria, the Gauls

also being at war, in Samnium, in Lucania. Then as

to all Latium, with the Sabines and Volscians, the

^Equans, and all Campania ; half of Umbria, Etruria,

and the Picentians, the Marsians, Pelignians, Vesti-

nians, and Apulians ; to whom we may add the whole

coast of the lower sea, possessed by the Greeks from

Thurii, to Neapolis and Cum a;; and the Samnites

from thence as far as Antium and Ostia: all these he

would have found either powerful allies to the Ro­

mans, or deprived of power by their arms. He would

have crossed the sea with his veteran Macedonians,

amounting to no more than thirty thousand infantry,

and four thousand horse, these mostly Thessalians.

This was the whole of his strength. Had he brought

with him Persians and Indians, and those other na­

tions, it would be dragging after him an incumbrance

rather than a support. Add to this, that the Romans

being at home, would have had recruits at hand:

Alexander, waging war in a foreign country, would

have found his army worn out with long service, as

happened afterwards to Hannibal. As to arms, theirs

were a buckler and long spears: those of the Romans,

a shield, which covered the body more effectually,

and a javelin, a much more forcible weapon than the

spear, either in throwing or striking. The soldiers,

