HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK X. 199

they not only prevented the Romans from marching

forward jnto their country, but even from procuring

forage from their lands ; and the foragers were obliged

to go back into the quiet country of Sora. News of

these events being conveyed to Rome, with circum­

stances of alarm magnified beyond the truth, Lucius

Postumius, the consul, though scarcely recovered from

his illness, was obliged to set out for the army. How­

ever, before his departure, having issued a proclama­

tion that his troops should assemble at Sora, he dedi­

cated the temple of Victory, for the building of which

he had provided, when curule edile, out of the money

arising from fines; and, joining the army, he advanced

from Sora towards Samnium, to the camp of his col­

league. The Samnites, despairing of being able to

make head against the two armies, retreated from

thence, on which the consuls, separating, proceeded

by different routes to lay waste the enemy's lands, and

besiege their towns.

34. Postumius attempted to make himself master of

Milionia by storm ; but not succeeding with regular

works, he carried his approaches to the walls, and

thus gained an entrance into the place. The fight was

continued in all parts of the city from the fourth hour

until near the eighth, and for a great part of the time

without any decisive advantage: the Romans at last

gained possession of it. Three thousand two hundred

of the Samnites were killed, four thousand two hun­

dred taken, besides the other booty. From thence

the legions were conducted to Ferentinum, out of

which the inhabitants had, during the night, retired in

silence through the opposite gate, with all their effects

which could be either carried or driven. The consul,

on his arrival, approached the walls with the same or­

der and circumspection as if he were to meet an oppo­

sition here equal to what he had experienced at Mili­

onia. The troops, perceiving a dead silence in the

city, and neither arms nor men on the towers and ram­

parts, were eager to mount the deserted fortifications;

out he restrained them, lest they might fall into a

