HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK X. 187

than guarded against any danger to himself or the

public. ' But if they chose,' he said, ' to give him an

assistant and associate in command, how could he over­

look Publius Decius the consul, with whom he was

perfectly acquainted, as a colleague, on so many occa­

sions ? There was no man living whom he would ra­

ther wish to be joined in commission with him : with

Publius Decius he should have forces sufficient, and

never too many enemies. If, however, his colleague

preferred any other employment, let them then give

him Lucius Volumnius as an assistant.' The disposal

of every particular was left intirely to Fabius by the

people and the senate, and even by his colleague ;

while Decius, having declared that he was ready to go

either to Etruria or Samnium, such general congratu­

lation and satisfaction took place, that all men antici­

pated victory, and felt as if a triumph, not a war, had

been decreed to the consuls. I find in some writers

that Fabius and Decius, immediately on their entering

into office, set out together for Etruria; and no men­

tion is made of the casting of lots, or of the disputes

which I have related. Others, not satisfied with re­

lating those disputes, have added charges of miscon­

duct, laid by Appius before the people against Fabius,

when absent; and a stubborn opposition, maintained

by the pretor against the consul, when present; and

also another contention between the colleagues, Decius

insisting that each consul should attend to the care of

his own separate province. Certainty, however, be­

gins to appear from the time when both consuls set out

for the campaign. Now before these arrived in Etru­

ria the Senonian Gauls came in a vast body to Clu-

sium, to attack the Roman legion encamped there.

Scipio, who commanded in that post, wishing to re­

medy the deficiency of his numbers by an advantage

in the ground, led his men up a hill, which stood be­

tween the camp and the city: but having, in his haste,

neglected to examine the place, when he came near

the summit, he found it already,possessed by the ene­

my, who had ascended on the" other side. The legion

