LIVY.

fell into the hands of the soldiers. This they were ob­

liged to sell in like manner as the former; and though

no rest was allowed them, they proceeded, never­

theless, with the utmost alacrity to Ferentinum. But

here they met a greater share both of difficulty and

danger: the garrison made a vigorous defence, and

the place was strongly fortified both by nature and art.

However, the soldiers, now inured to plunder, over­

came every obstacle. Three thousand of the enemy

were killed round the walls, and the spoil was given to

the troops. In some annals the principal share of the

honor of taking these cities is attributed to Maximus.

They say that Murgantia was taken by Decius; Ro-

mulea and Ferentinum by Fabius. Some ascribe this

honor to the new consuls: others not to both, but to

one of these—Lucius Volumnius, whose province they

say Samnium was.

18. While things went on thus in Samnium, and

whoever it was that had the command and auspices,

another powerful combination, composed of many

states, was formed in Etruria against the Romans, the

chief promoter of which was Gellius Egnatius, a Sam-

nite. Almost all the Etrurians had united in this hos­

tile design. The neighboring states of Umbria were

drawn in, as it were, by contagion ; and auxiliaries

were procured from the Gauls for hire: all their seve­

ral numbers assembled at the camp of the Samnites.

When intelligence of this sudden commotion was re­

ceived at Rome, the consul, Lucius Volumnius, had

already set out for Samnium, with the second and

third legions, and fifteen thousand of the allies ; it

was therefore resolved that Appius Claudius should,

without loss of time, go into Etruria. He took with

him two Roman legions, the first and fourth, and

twelve thousand allies, and encamped at a small dis­

tance from the enemy. However, his early arrival,

though productive of one good effect, the restraining,

by dread of the Roman name, several states of Etru­

ria who were inclined to war, yet was not followed by

any very judicious or successful enterprise. Several

