112 LIVY.

sides of the defiles, the roads being dangerous to either

party. Then the Samnites, making a short circuit

through an open tract, marched down their troops into

level ground in the Campanian plains, and there the

hostile camps first came within view of each other.

Both armies then made trial of their strength in slight

skirmishes, more frequently between the horse than

the foot; and the Romans were no way displeased

either at the issue of these, or at the protraction of

the war. The Samnite generals, on the contrary, were

uneasy that their battalions should be weakened daily

by small losses, and the general vigor abated by inac足

tion. They therefore marched into the field, disposing

their cavalry on both wings, with orders to give more

heedful attention to the camp behind than to the bat足

tle ; for that the line of infantry would be able to pro足

vide for their own safety. The consuls took post, Sul-

picius on the right wing, Petilius in the left. The

right wing was stretched out wider than usual; the

Samnites also on that side being formed in thin ranks,

either with design of turning the flank of the enemy,

or to avoid being themselves surrounded. On the left,

besides that they were formed in more compact order,

an addition was made to their strength by a sudden

act of the consul Petilius: for the subsidiary cohorts,

which were usually reserved for the exigences of a

tedious fight, he brought up immediately to the front,

'and, in the first onset, pushed the enemy with the

whole of his force. The Samnite line of infantry giving

way, their cavalry advanced to support them ; and, as

they were charging in an oblique direction between

the two lines, the Roman horse coming up at full

speed, disordered their battalions and ranks of infantry

and cavalry, so as to oblige the whole line on that side

to give ground. The left wing bad not only the pre足

sence of Petilius to animate them, but that of Sulpi-

cius likewise ; who, on the shout being first raised in

that quarter, rode thither from his own division, which

had not yet engaged. When he saw victory no longer

doubtful there, he returned to his own post with twelve

