HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK IX. 125

with such haste and eagerness, that in order to come

the sooner to a close engagement, they threw away

their javelins, drew their swords, and rushed on. On

the other side, the Romans poured down on them,

sometimes javelins, and sometimes stones, which the

place abundantly supplied; so that the blows on their

shields and helmets, confusing even those whom they

did not wound, kept them from closing with their foe ;

and they had no missive weapons with which to act at

a distance. While they stood still exposed to blows

against which they had no sufficient defence, some even

giving way, and the line growing unsteady and waver

ing, the Roman spearmen and the first rank renewing

the shout, poured down on them with drawn swords.

This attack the Etrurians could not withstand, but

facing ahout fled precipitately towards their camp ;

when the Roman cavalry getting before them hy gal­

loping obliquely across the plain, threw themselves in

the way of their flight, on which they quitted the road,

and hent their course to the mountains. From thence,

in a body, almost without arms, and debilitated with

wounds, they made their way into the Ciminian forest.

The Romans, having slain many thousands of the

Etrurians, and taken thirty-eight military standards,

took also possession of their camp, together with a

vast quantity of spoil. They then began to consider

of pursuing the enemy.

36. The Ciminian forest was in those days deemed

as impassable and frightful as the German forests have

been in latter times ; not even any trader having ever

attempted to pass it. Hardly any, besides the general

himself, showed boldness enough to enter it; so fresh

was the remembrance of the disaster at Caudium in

every one's mind. On this, Marcus Fabius, the con­

sul's brother, (some say Caeso, others Claudius, born

of the same mother with the consul,) undertook to ex­

plore the country, and to bring them in a short time

an account of every particular. Being educated at

Caere, where he had friends, he was perfectly ac­

quainted with the Etrurian language. I have seen it

