HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK VIM. 45

part of the city which was possessed by the Samniles,

which detachment was commanded by Lucius Quintius,

military tribune.

26. In the mean time Nymphius, on his part, art­

fully addressing himself to the commander of the Saro-

nites, prevailed on him, as all the troops of the Ro­

mans were employed either about Palaepolis, or in

Samnhim, to allow him to sail round with the fleet to

the territory of Rome, where he undertook to ravage

not only the sea-coast, but the country adjoining the very

city. But in order to avoid observation, it was neces­

sary, he told him, to set out by night, and to launch

the ships immediately. To effect this with the greater

despatch, all the young Samnites, except the necessary

guards of the city, were sent to the shore. While

Nymphius wasted the time there givipg contradictory

orders, designedly to create confusion, which was in­

creased by the darkness, and by the crowd, which was

so numerous as to obstruct each other's operations,

Charilaus, according to the plan concerted, was ad­

mitted by his associates into the city ; and having filled

the higher parts of it with Roman soldiers, he ordered

them to raise a shout; on which the Greeks, who had

received previous directions from their leaders, kept

themselves quiet. The Nolans fled through the oppo­

site part of the town by the road leading to Nola. The

flight of the Samnites, who were shut out from the

city, was easier, but had a more disgraceful appear­

ance ; for they returned to their homes without arms,

stripped of their baggage, and destitute of every thing;

all, in short, belonging to them being left with their

enemies ; so that they were objects of ridicule, not

only to foreigners, but even to their own countrymen.

I know that there is another account of this matter,

which represents the town to have been betrayed by

the Samnites ; but I have chosen to follow the writers

most worthy of credit: besides, the treaty of Neapolis,

for to that place the seat of government of the Greeks

was then transferred, renders it more probable that the

renewal of friendship was voluntary on their side.

