304 LIVY.

as if pent up by an enemy. Great numbers of men

and cattle perished, and likewise seven of the elephants

which had survived the battle at the Trebia.

59. Descending therefore from the Apennines, he di­

rected his route back towards Placentia; and, having

marched ten miles, pitched his camp. Next day he

led out against the enemy twelve thousand foot and

five thousand horse. Nor did the consul Sempronius

(for he had by this time returned from Rome) decline

a battle ; and, during that day, the armies lay en­

camped within three miles of each other. On the fol­

lowing, they fought with the greatest bravery and with

variable success. At the first onset the superiority

was so great on the side of the Romans, that they not

only had the better in the fight, but drove the enemy

from their ground, pursued them to their camp, and

presently attacked the camp itself. Hannibal, after

posting a few to defend the rampart and gates, collected

the rest in close order in the middle of the camp, or­

dering them to watch attentively the signal for sallying

forth. It was now near the ninth hour of the day,

when the Roman, having fatigued his troops without

effect, and seeing no prospect of success, gave the sig­

nal for retreat. As soon as Hannibal perceived that

they slackened their efforts, and were retiring from the

camp, be instantly sent out bis cavalry against them

on the right and left; and he himself, at the head of

the main body of infantry, rushed out in the middle.

Seldom has there been a fight more desperate, and

never perhaps one more remarkable for the loss on

both sides than this would have been, had the daylight

allowed it to continue; but night put a stop to the

battle, while its fury was at the highest. The num­

bers slain therefore were not great, in proportion to

the violence of the conflict; and as both parties had

met nearly equal success, so they separated with equal

loss. On neither side fell more than six hundred foot,

and half that number of horse. But the loss of the

Romans was more considerable in regard of the qua­

