HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK VIII. 49

made to punish them by force of arms, resentment and

dread of immediate danger might produce the same

effect. And the whole body of Vestinians, too, was at

least equal in strength to the Samnites, being com­

posed of the Marsians, the Pelignians, and the Mar-

rusinians ; against all of whom they would have to

contend if any steps were taken against that nation.

However, that opinion prevailed, which might at the

time seem to have more spirit than prudence ; but the

event afforded a proof that fortune assists the brave.

The people, in pursuance of the direction of the senate,

ordered war against the Vestinians, which province

fell by lot to Junius ; Samnium to Camillus. Armies

were led to both places, which by carefully guarding

the frontiers, prevented a junction of the forces of their

enemies. But Lucius Furius, on whom the principal

weight of the business rested, was deprived of his

share in the management of it, being seized with a

severe sickness. He was therefore ordered to nomi­

nate a dictator to conduct the war, and he nominated

Lucius Papirius Cursor, the most celebrated general,

by far, of any in that age, who appointed Quintus Fa-

bius Maximus Rullianus master of the horse. These

commanders were remarkable for their exploits in war ;

but more so for a quarrel which arose between them­

selves, and which proceeded almost to violence. The

other consul in the territory of the Vestinians carried

on operations of various kinds; and in all was uni­

formly successful. He utterly laid waste their lands,

and by spoiling and burning their houses and corn,

compelled them to come to an engagement; when, in

one battle, he reduced the strength of the Vestinians

to such a degree, though not without loss on his own

side, that they not only fled to their camp, but fear­

ing even to trust to the rampart and trench, dis­

persed from thence into the several towns, in hopes of

tmding security in the situation and fortifications of

their cities. At last he undertook to reduce their

towns by force ; and so ardent were the soldiers, and

such their resentment for the wounds which they had

MV. V0L- D

