300 .i LIVY.

Hannibal ordered them to be driven away from the

centre towards the extremity of the left wing against

the auxiliary Gauls. These they instantly put to open

flight, which spread new terror among the Romans.

They were now obliged to fight in the form of a circle;

when about ten thousand of them, having no other

means of escape, forced their way, with great slaugh足

ter, through the centre of the African line, which was

composed of the Gallic auxiliaries ; and as they could

neither return to their camp, from which they were

shut out by the river, nor, by reason of the heavy

rain, discover in what part they could assist their

friends, they proceeded straight to Placentia. After

this several similar irruptions were made from all

quarters; and those who pushed towards the river were

either drowned in the eddies, or, hesitating to enter

the water, were cut off. Some, who in their flight

dispersed themselves over the country, falling in with

the tracks of the body of troops which had retreated,

followed them to Placentia ; others, from their fears of

the enemy, assumed boldness to attempt the stream,

and, accomplishing their passage, arrived at the camp.

The rain, mixed with snow, and the intolerable seve足

rity of the cold, destroyed great numbers of men and

horses, and almost all the elephants. The Carthagi足

nians continued the pursuit no farther than the river

Trebia, and returned to their camp so benumbed with

the cold, as to be scarcely capable of feeling joy for

the victory ; insomuch that though, during the follow足

ing night, the guard of the Roman camp, and a great

part at least of their soldiers, passed the Trebia on

rafts, the Carthaginians either perceived nothing of the

matter through the noise made by the fain, or being,

by weariness and wounds, disabled to move, pretended

that they did not perceive it; and 4b.e enemy lying

quiet, the consul Scipio led the troops in silence to

Placentia, and thence across the Po to Cremona, lest

the two armies, wintering in one colony, should be too

great a burden.

. 57. The news of this disaster caused such conster-

