286 LIVY.

bly, with promises of several kinds of rewards to be

conferred on them, that the certain hope of these

might animate their exertions in the fight. ' He would

give them land,' he told them, ' in Italy, Africa, or

Spain, wherever they should choose, exempt from all

charges, to the person who should receive it, and to

his children. Should any prefer money to land, he

would give him an equivalent in silver. To such of the

allies as wished-to become citizens of Carthage, that

privilege should be granted. With regard to those

who chose rather to return to their native homes, he

would take care that they should not have cause to

wish for an exchange of situation with anyone of their

countrymen.' To the slaves also who attended their

masters he promised liberty, engaging to give the

owners two slaves in the room of each of these. Then,

to give them full security for the performance of all

this, holding in his left hand a lamb, and in his right

hand a flint stone, he prayed to Jupiter and the rest of

the gods, that if he did not fulfil these engagements,

they would slay him, in. like manner as he slew that

lamb; and, after this imprecation, he broke the ani­

mal's head with the stone. This had such an effect

that all the soldiers, as if they had now received the

surety of the gods for the ratification of their hopes,

and thinking that nothing delayed the enjoyment of

their wishes, but the battle not being begun, with one

mind, and one voice, demanded the fight.

46. Nothing like the same alacrity appeared among

the Romans, who, besides other matter, were dispirited

by some late prodigies. A wolf had entered the camp,

and after tearing such as he met, made his escape un­

hurt. A swarm of bees also had pitched on a tree

which hung over the general's tent. After expiating

these prodigies, Scipio at the head of his cavalry and

light spearmen, set out towards the camp of the enemy,

in order to discover, by a near view of their forces,

how great and of what kind they were; and was met

by Hannibal, who had likewise advanced with his ca­

