122 LIVY.

against the latter : this is a name more hostile to your

liberty by far than that of the Tarquinii. I pray you,

Appius Claudius, this being now the hundredth year

since the dictatorship of Mamercus jEmilius, during

which period so many men of the highest characters

and abilities have filled that office, did none of these

ever read the twelve tables ? None of them know,

that whatever was the last order of the people, that

was law? Nay, certainly they all knew it ; and they

therefore obeyed the jEmilian law rather than the old

one, under which the censors had been at first created ;

because it was the last order ; and because, when two

laws are contradictory, the new always repeals the

old. Do you mean to say, Appius, that the people

are not bound by the jEmilian law? or, that the peo足

ple are bound, and you alone exempted? The jEmilian

law bound those violent censors, Caius Furius and

Marcus Geganius, who showed what mischief that

office might do in the state ; when, out of resentment

for the limitation of their power, they disfranchised

Mamercus jEmilins, the first man of the age, either in

war or peace. It bound all the censors thenceforward,

during the space of a hundred years. It binds Caius

Plautius your colleague, created under the same aus足

pices, with the same privileges. Did not the people

create him with the fullest privileges with which any

censor ever was created? Or is yours an excepted

case, in which this singularity peculiarly takes place ?

Shall the person whom you create king of the sacri足

fices, laying hold of the style of sovereignty, say that

lie was created with the fullest privileges with which

any king was ever created at Rome ? who then do you

think would be content with a dictatorship of six

months? Who with the office of interrex for five days ?

Whom would you, with confidence, create dictator for

the purpose of driving the nail, or of exhibiting games?

How foolish, how stupid, do you think, those must ap足

pear in this man's eyes, who, after performing most

important services, abdicated the dictatorship within

the twentieth day ; or who, being irregularly created,

