14 LIVY.

tervals between them. A company had twenty light-

armed soldiers, the rest bearing shields ; those were

called light, who carried only a spear and short iron

javelins. This body, which formed the van in the field

of battle, contained the youth in early bloom, who

were advancing to the age of service ; next to them

followed the men of more robust age, in the same

number of companies, whom they called principes, all

bearing shields, and distinguished by the completest

armor. This band of twenty companies they called

antepilani, because there were, at the same time, ten

others placed behind them with the standards. Of

these companies, each was distinguished into three

divisions, and the first division of each they called a

pilus. Each company had three ensigns, and con足

tained one hundred and eighty-six men. The first

ensign was at the head of the triarii, veteran soldiers

of approved courage ; the second, at the head of the

rorarii, men whose age and course of service afforded

less ability ; the third, at that of the accensi, the body

in whom they placed the least confidence of all, for

which reason also they were thrown back to the last

line. An army being marshalled according to this

disposition, the spearmen first began the fight: if these

were unable to repulse the enemy, they retreated lei足

surely, and the principes received them into the in足

tervals of their ranks. The fight then rested on the

principes, the spearmen following in their rear. The

veterans continued kneeling behind the ensigns with

their left leg extended forward, holding their shields

resting on their shoulders, and their spears fixed in

the ground, with the points erect; so that their line

presented an appearance of strength, like that of a

rampart. If the principes also failed in making an

impression on the enemy, they fell back slowly from

the front to the veterans. Hence cape into use the

proverbial expression, denoting a case of difficulty,

that the affair had come to the triarii. These then,

rising up, received the principes and spearmen into

the intervals of their ranks, and immediately closing足

