HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK IX. 109

same device. But as the generals were not present

when the attacks were made, there were no bounds to

the carnage which ensued; and the nation of the Au-

sonians, when there was scarcely any clear proof of

the charge of its having revolted, was utterly de­

stroyed, as if it had supported a contest through a

deadly war.

26. During this year Luceria fell into the hands of

the Samnites, the Roman garrison being betrayed to

them. The actors in this treachery did not long go

unpunished : the Roman army was not far off, by

whom the city, which lay in a plain, was taken at the

first onset. The Lucerians and Samnites were to a

man put to the sword ; and to such a length was re­

sentment carried, that at Rome, on the senate being

consulted about sending a colony to Luceria, many

voted for the demolition of it. Their hatred was of

the bitterest kind, against a people whom they had

been obliged twice to subdue by arms ; the great dis­

tance also made them averse from sending their citi­

zens as colonists among nations so ill affected towards

them. However, the resolution was carried that such

should be sent; and accordingly two thousand five

hundred were transported thither. This year, disaffec--

tion to the Romans becoming general, conspiracies

were formed among the leading men at Capua, as well

as at other places ; which being reported to the senate,

they deemed it an affair by no means to be neglected.

They decreed that inquiries should be made, and re­

solved that a dictator should be appointed to enforce

these inquiries. Caius Maenius was accordingly no­

minated, and he appointed Marcus Foslius master of

the horse. People's dread of that office was very

great, insomuch that the Calavii, Ovius, and Novius,

who were the heads of the conspiracy, either through

fear of the dictator's power, or the consciousness of

guilt, previous to the charge against them being laid

in form before him, chose, as appeared beyond doubt,

to avoid trial by a voluntary death. As the subject of

the inquiry in Campania was thus removed, the pro-

