LIVY.

toriaos—that hardly ever was any general seen in the

field with a more cheerful countenance ; whether this

was owing to his natural temper or to his confidence

of success. From the same firmness of mind it pro­

ceeded that he did not suffer himself to be diverted

from the war by the dispute about the auspices; and

that, in the heat of the battle, when it was customary

to vow temples to the immortal gods, he vowed to Jo-

piter the victorious, that if he should defeat the le­

gions of the enemy, he would, before he tasted of any

generous liquor, make a libation to him of a cup of

wine and hoaey. This kind of vow proved acceptable

to the gods, and they conducted the auspices to a for­

tunate issue.

43. Like success attended the operations of the other

consul at Cominium : leading up his forces to the walls

at the first dawn, he invested the city on every sidei

and posted strong guards opposite to the gates to pre­

vent any sally being made. Just as he was giving the

signal, the alarming message from his colleague, touch­

ing the march of the twenty Samnite cohorts, not only

caused him to delay the assault, but obliged him to call

off a part of his troops when they were formed and

ready to begin the attack. He ordered Decjus Bru­

tus Scaeva, a lieutenant-general, with the first legion,

twenty auxiliary cohorts, and the cavalry, to go and

oppose the said detachment; and in whatever place he

should meet the foe, there to stop and detain them,

and even to engage in battle, should opportunity offer

for it: at all events, not to suffer those troops to ap­

proach Cominium. He then commanded the scaling-

ladders to be bronght up to the walls on every side of

the city ; and, under a fence of closed shields, advanced

to the gates. Thus, at the same moment, the gates

were broken open, and the assault made on every part

of the rampart. Though the Samnites, before they

saw the assailants on the works, had possessed courage

enough to oppose their approaches to the city, yet now,

when the action was no longer carried on at a distance,

nor with missile weapons, hut in close fight; and when

