HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK IX. 145

to every quarter, occasioned perplexity at first. After­

wards discovering their design by means of scouts, they

attacked their cities, one after another, and within the

space of fifty days took, intirely by force, forty-one

towns, most of which were rased and burnt, and the

race of the .<Equans almost extirpated. A triumph was

granted over the ^Equans. The Marrucinians, Mar-

sians, Pelignians, and Ferentans, warned by the ex­

ample of their disasters, sent deputies to Rome to so­

licit peace and friendship ; and these states, on their

submissive applications, were admitted into alliance.

46. In the same year Caius Flavius, son of Cneius,

grandson of a freedman, a notary, in low circumstances

originally, but artful and eloquent, was appointed

curule edile. I find in some annals that, being in at­

tendance on the ediles, and seeing that he was voted

edile by the prerogative tribe, but that his name would

not be received, because he acted as a notary, he threw

down his tablet, and took an oath that he would not,

for the future, follow that business. But Licinius Ma-

cer contends that he had dropped the employment of

notary a considerable time before, having already been

a tribune, and twice a triumvir, once for regulating the

nightly watch, and another time for conducting a co­

lony. However, of this there is no dispute, that to the

contempt thrown by the nobles on the meanness of his

condition, he opposed much firmness. He made public

the rules of proceeding injudicial causes, hitherto shut

up in the closets of the pontiffs; and hung up to public

view, round the forum, the calendar on white tablets,

that all might know when business could be transacted

in the courts. To the great displeasure of the nobles,

he performed the dedication of the temple of Concord,

in the area of Vulcan's temple ; and the chief pontiff',

Cornelius Barbatus, was compelled by the united in­

stances of the people, to dictate to him the form of

words, although he affirmed that, consistently with the

practice of antiquity, no other than a consul, or com­

mander-in-chief, could dedicate a temple. This occa­

sioned a law to be proposed to the people, by direction

LIV. VOL. III. K

