HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK VIII.

' have courage ; for while the Roman legions were in

being, no man should offer him violence.' Not long

after the dictator arrived, and instantly summoned an

assembly by sound of trumpet. Then silence being

made, a crier cited Quintus Fabius, master of the

horse, and as soon as, on the lower ground, he had

approached the tribunal, the dictator said, ' Quintus

Fabius, I demand of you, when the authority of dic­

tator is acknowleged to be supreme, and is submitted

to by the consuls, officers endowed with regal power ;

and likewise by the pretors, created under the same

auspices with consuls ; whether or no you think it

reasonable that it should not meet obedience from a

master of the horse ? I also ask you whether, when I

knew that I set out from home under uncertain aus­

pices, it was for me, under that consideration, to ha­

zard the safety of the commonwealth, or whether my

duty did not require me to have the auspices newly

taken, so that nothing might be done while the will of

the gods remained doubtful? And farther, when a re­

ligious scruple was of such a nature as to hinder the

dictator from acting, whether the master of the horse

could be exempt from it, and at liberty ? But why do

I ask these questions, when, supposing that I had gone

without leaving any orders, your own judgment ought

to have been regulated according to what you could

discover of my intention? Why do you not answer?

Did I not forbid you to act, in any respect, during my

absence ? Did I not forbid you to engage the enemy ?

Yet, in contempt of these my orders, while the aus­

pices were uncertain, while the omens were confused,

contrary to the practice of war, contrary to the disci­

pline of our ancestors, and contrary to the authority of

the gods, you dared to enter on the fight. Answer to

these questions proposed to you. On any other mat­

ter utter not a word. Lictor, draw near him.' To

each of these particulars Fabius, finding it no easy

matter to answer, at one time remonstrated against

the same person acting as accuser and judge, in a

cause which affected his very existence; at another,

