LIVY.

47. Such was the first battle with Hannibal, in which

it manifestly appeared that the Carthaginian was supe­

rior in cavalry; and, consequently, that open plains,

such as those between the Po and the Alps, were un­

favorable to the Romans in their operations. Where­

fore the consul, on the night following, ordering his

men to prepare in silence for a march, decamped from

the Ticinus, and hastened to the Po, in order that, be­

fore the rafts sl1ould be loosened, of which he had

formed the bridge over that river, he might carry over

his forces without tumult or interruption from the

enemy's pursuit. They got as far as Placentia before

Hannibal received any certain information of their de­

parture from the Ticinus. Nevertheless, he made pri­

soners six hundred men, who delayed on the hither

bank, spending too much time in unbinding the raft.

He could not pass over the bridge, because, as soon as

the extremities were untied, the whole collection of

rafts floated down with the current. Coelius relates

that Magcwith the cavalry and the Spanish infantry,

immediately swam over the river, and that Hannibal

himself led over the rest of the army, through fords

somewhat higher up, forming the elephants in a line

above them, to break the force of the current. These

accounts can hardly gain credit with people ac­

quainted with the river Po j for it is not credible that

the cavalry could stem such a violent current without

losing their arms and horses, even allowing that all the

Spaniards were conveyed over on leathern bags in­

flated ; besides, that it would have cost a circuit of

many days' march to find fords in the Po, through

which an army, heavily incumbered with baggage,

could make a passage. Those authors seem to me more

worthy of credit who relate that, with difficulty, after

two days' search, a place was found where a bridge of

rafts could be constructed ; and that over this the ca­

valry and light-armed Spaniards were sent forwards

under Mago. While Hannibal, who waited on the

same side of the river to give audience to embassies

