HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK IX. 101

able. Our soldiers, heavy laden with arms, may rea­

sonably fear a body of cnvalry, or arrows; defiles of

difficult passages, and places impassable to convoys.

But they have defeated, and will defeat a thousand

armies more formidable than those of Alexander and

the Macedonians, provided that the same love of peace

and zeal to promote domestic harmony, which at pre­

sent subsist among us, shall continue to prevail.

20. Marcus Foslius Flaccinator and Lucius Plau-

tius Venno were the next raised to the consulship.

[A.U.C.436. B.C. 316.] In this year ambassadors came

from most of the states of the Samuites to procure a

renewal of the treaty ; and, having moved the compas­

sion of the senate by the humility with which they

prostrated themselves before them, were referred to

the people, with whom they found not their prayers so

efficacious. Their petition, therefore, with regard to

the treaty, was rejected; but, after a supplication of

several days, they obtained a truce for two years. The

Teaneans likewise, and Canusians of Apulia, worn out

by the devastations of their country, surrendered them­

selves to the consul, Lucius Plautius, and gave hos­

tages. This year prefects first began to be created for

Capua, and a code of laws was given to that nation by

Lucius Furins the pretor; both in compliance with

their own request, as a remedy for the disorder of

their affairs, occasioned by intestine dissensions. At

Rome two additional tribes were constituted, the Ufen-

tine and Falerine. On the affairs of Apulia falling

into decline, the Teatians of that country came to the

new consuls, Caius Junius Bubulcus and Quintus

/Emilius Barbula, suing for an alliance [A. U. C. 437.

B.C. 315], and engaging that peace should be observed

towards the Romans through every part of Apulia.

By pledging themselves boldly for this they obtained

the grant of an alliance, not however on terms of equa­

lity, but of their submitting to the dominion of the

Roman people. Apulia being intirely reduced, (for

Junius had also gained possession of Forentum, a town

of great strength,) the consuls advanced into Lucania;

