HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK IX. 116

called after him, the Appian, and for having conveyed

water into the city. These works he performed alone ;

for his colleague, overwhelmed with shame by reason

of the infamous and unworthy choice made of senators,

had abdicated his office. Appius possessing that in­

flexibility of temper which, from the earliest times,

had been the characteristic of his family, held on the

censorship by himself. By direction of the same Ap­

pius the Potitian family, in which the office of priests

attendant on the great altar of Hercules was hereditary,

instructed some of the public servants in the rites of

that solemnity, with the intention to delegate the same

to them. The consequence, as related, is wonderful to

be told, and sufficient to make people scrupulous of

disturbing the established modes of religious solemni­

ties : for though there were at that time twelve branches

of the Potitian family, all grown-up persons, and not

fewer than thirty, yet they were every, one, together

with their offspring, cut off within the year ; so that the

name of the Potitii became extinct, while the censor

Appius also was pursued by the wrath of the gods;

and, some years after, deprived of sight.

30. The consuls of the succeeding year [A.U.C. 443.

B. C. 309] were Caius Junius Bubulcus a third time,

and Quintus jEmilius Barbula a second. In the com­

mencement of their office they complained before the

people that, by the improper choice which had been

made of members of the senate, that body had been

disgraced, several having been passed over who were

preferable to the persons chosen in ; and they declared

that they would pay no regard to such election, made,

without distinction of right or wrong, merely to gratify

interest or humor: they then immediately called over

the list of the senate, in the same order which had

taken place before the censorship of Appius Claudius

and Caius Plautius. Two public employments, both

relating to military affairs, came this year into the dis­

posal of the people; one being an order that sixteen of

the tribunes, for four legions, should be appointed by

the people; whereas hitherto they had been generally

