HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXI. 285

You must not pass the Iberus ; you must not meddle

with the Saguntines ; Saguntum is on our side of the

Iberus; you must not stir a foot. Is it not enough

that you take Sicily and Sardinia, provinces which

have been mine from the earliest times? Will you

take Spain also ? when I shall have retired thenee

you will pass over into Africa. Will pass, did I say ?

of the two consuls of the present year they have sent

one to Africa, the other to Spain. There is nothing

left to us any where, unless we make good our claim

by arms. They may be timid and dastardly, who can

look for refuge behind them, who can fly through safe

and quiet roads, and be received into their own terri­

tories and their own lands. For your part, necessity

obliges you to be brave ; and, since every mean be->

tween victory and death is sunk out of reach, you

must resolve to conquer, or should fortune be unfa­

vorable, to meet death in battle rather than in flight.

If this determination be firmly fixed in'every one of

your breasts, I affirm again, you are conquerors. The

immortal gods never gave to man a more invigorating

incentive to conquest.'

45. The courage of the soldiers on 'both sides being

animated to the contest by these exhortations, the Ro­

mans threw a bridge over the Ticinus, and erected a

fort on it for its security. While they were employed

in this work the Carthaginians sent Maharbal, with a

squadron of five hundred Numidian horse, to ravage

the lands of the allies of the Roman people. He or­

dered him to spare the Gauls as much as possible, and

to endeavor, by persuasion, to bring over their chiefs

to his side. When the bridge was finished, the Ro­

man army marched over into the country of the Insu-

brians, and sat down at the distance of five miles from

Victumviae. At this place lay Hannibal's camp, who,

perceiving the approach of a battle, hastily recalled

Maharbal and the horsemen, and thinking that he

could never apply too many arguments and encourage­

ments to inspirit his soldiers, called them to an assem­

