HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK X. 183

were, than for the unanimity which had ever subsisted

between them. The interruption which this afterwards

suffered was, in my opinion, owing to a jarring be­

tween the opposite parties rather than between them­

selves ; the patricians endeavoring that Fabius should

have Etruria for-bis province, without casting lots, and

the plebeians insisting that Decius should bring the

matter to the decision of lots. There was certainly a

contention in the senate, and the interest of Fabius

being superior there, the business was brought before

the people. Here, between military men who laid

greater stress on deeds than on words, the debate was

short. Fabius said ' that it was unreasonable that after

he had planted a tree another should gather the fruit

of it. He had opened the Ciminian forest, and made a

way for the Roman arms through passes until then

impracticable. Why had they disturbed his repose at

that time of his life, if they intended to give the manage­

ment of the war to another?' Then, in the way of a

gentle reproof, he observed, that ' instead of an asso­

ciate in command, he had chosen an adversary; and

that Decius thought it too much that their unanimity

should last through three consulates.' Declaring, in

fine, that ' he desired nothing farther than that, if

they thought him qualified for the command in the

province, they should send him thither. He had sub­

mitted to the judgment of the senate, and would now

be governed by the authority of the people.' Publius

Decius complained of injustice in the senate ; and as­

serted that ' the patricians had labored as long as pos­

sible to exclude the plebeians from all access to the

higher honors; and since merit, by its own intrinsic

power, had prevailed so far as that it should not in any

rank of men be precluded from the attainment of them,

they sought every expedient to render ineffectual, not

only the suffrages of the people, but even the decisions

of fortune, converting all things to the aggrandisement

of a few. Former consuls had disposed of the provinces

by lots; now, the senate bestowed a province on Fa­

bius at their pleasure. If this was meant as a mark of

