110 LIVY.

bestowed by the dictators and consuls, and very few of

the places were left to be filled by vote. This order was

proposed by Lucius Atilius and Caius Marcius, plebeian

tribunes. Another was, that the people likewise should

constitute two naval commissioners, for the equipping

and refitting of the fleet. The person who introduced

this order of the people was Marcus Decius, plebeian

tribune. Another transaction of this year I should pass

over as trifling, were it not for the relation which it

bears to religion. The flute players taking offence be­

cause they had been prohibited, by the last censors,

from holding their repasts in the temple of Jupiter,

which had been customary from very early times, went

off in a body to Tibur; so that there was not one left

in the city to play at the sacrifices. This affair gave

uneasiness to the senate on account of its consequences

to religion ; and they sent envoys to Tibur with in­

structions, to endeavor that these men might be sent

back to Rome. The Tiburtines readily promised com­

pliance, and first calling them into the senate-house,

warmly recommended to them to return thither; and

then, finding that they could not be prevailed on,

practised an artifice not ill adapted to the dispositions

of that description of people: on a festival day, they

invited them separately to their several houses, ap­

parently with the intention of heightening the pleasure

of their feasts with music, and there plied them with

wine, of which such people are always fond, until they

laid them asleep. In this state of insensibility they

threw them into waggons, and carried them away to

Rome: nor did they know any thing of the matter

until the wnggons having been left in the forum, the

light surprised them, still heavily sick from the de­

bauch. The people then crowded about them, and, on

their consenting at length to stay, privilege was granted

them to ramble about the city in full dress, with music,

during three days in every year. And that license,

which we see practised at present, and the right of

being fed in the temple, was restored to those who

played at the sacrifices. These incidents occurred

