74 LIVY.

country: in this spot, the whole of the Roman legions:

and unless these choose to rush on death for their own

gratification, what is there which can be preserved by

their death? The houses of the city, some may say,

and the walls of it, and the crowd who dwell in it.

But, in fact, in case of the destruction of this army, all

these are given up to ruin, instead of being saved from

it: for who will protect them ? An unwarlike and un­

armed multitude, shall I suppose? Yes, just as they

defended them against the attack of the Gauls. Will

they call to their succor an army from Veii, with Ca-

millus at its head ? Here, on the spot, I repeat, are

all our hopes and strength; by preserving which we

preserve our country ; by delivering them up to death,

we abandon and betray it. But a surrender is shame­

ful and ignominious. True : but such ought to be out

affection for our country, that we should save it by our

own disgrace, if necessity required, as freely as by our

death. Let us therefore undergo that indignity, bow

great soever, and submit to that necessity to which

even the gods themselves are seen to yield. Go, con­

suls, ransom the state for arms, which your ancestors

ransomed with gold.'

5. The consuls accordingly went to Pontius to con­

fer with him; and when he talked in the strain of a

conqueror, of a treaty, they declared that such could

not be concluded without an order of the people, nor

without the ministry of the heralds and the other cus­

tomary rites. So that the Caudine peace was not rati­

fied by settled treaty, as is commonly believed, and

even asserted by Claudius in. his history, but by con­

vention, wherein the parties became sureties. For

what occasion would there be either for sureties or

hostages in the former case, where the ratification is

performed by the imprecation, ' that whichever nation

shall give occasion to the said terms being violated,

may Jupiter strike that nation in like manner as the

swine is struck by the heralds.' The consuls, lieute­

nants-general, questors, and military tribunes, became

sureties; and the names of all these are extant in the

