144 LIVY.

suffer themselves to be made Roman citizens. But how

much that condition was to be wished for, they had

been taught by the Hernicians; who, when they had

the option, preferred their own laws to the freedom of

the Roman state. To people who wished for liberty to

choose what they judged preferable, the necessity of

becoming Roman citizens would have the nature of a

punishment.' In resentment of these declarations,

uttered publicly in their assemblies, the Roman people

ordered war to be made on the jEquans ; and, in pro­

secution of this new undertaking, both the consuls

marched from the city, and sat down at the distance of

four miles from the camp of the enemy. The troops of

the jEquans, like tumultuary recruits, in consequence

of their having passed such a number of years without

waging war on their own account, were all in disorder

and confusion, without established officers and without

command. Some advised to give battle, others to de­

fend the camp ; the greater part were influenced by

Concern for the devastation of their lands, likely to take

place, and the consequent destruction of their cities,

left with weak garrisons. Among a variety of proposi­

tions, they however heard one which tended to transfer

every man's attention from the public interests to the

care of his private concerns. It recommended that, at

the first watch, they should depart from the camp by

different roads, and carry all their effects into the cities,

where they might be secured by the strength of the

fortifications: this they all approved and warmly cele­

brated. When the enemy were now dispersed through

the country, the Romans, at the first dawn, marched

out to the field, and drew up in order of battle, but no

one coming to oppose them, they advanced in a brisk

pace to the camp. Perceiving neither guards before

the gates, nor soldiers on the ramparts, nor the usual

bustle of a camp,—surprised at the extraordinary si­

lence, they halted in apprehension of some stratagem.

At length, passing over the rampart, and finding the

whole deserted, they proceeded to search out the tracts

of the enemy. But these, as they scattered themselves

