HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK X. 211

deities, they never were more hostile to any army than

to that which, in its abominable sacrifice, was polluted

with human blood, mingled with that of cattle ; which

was in all events devoted to the wrath of the gods,

dreading, on the one hand, the deities, who were wit­

nesses to the treaties concluded with the Romans ; on

the other, the imprecations comprised in the oath which

they took, in contradiction to those treaties which they

had before sworn to observe; an oath which, taken

through compulsion, they no doubt abhorred; while

they as certainly feared, at once the gods, their coun­

trymen, and their enemies.'

40. The rage of the soldiers was inflamed to a high

degree before; but, when the consul had recounted to

them all these circumstances, which he had learned

from deserters, they then, filled with confidence in both

divine and human aid, with one universal shout, de­

manded the battle ; were vexed at the action being de­

ferred ; impatient under the intended delay of a day

and a night. Papirius, at the third watch, having re­

ceived his colleague's letter, arose in silence, and sent

the keeper of the chickens to take the auspices. There

was no one description of men in the camp who felt

not earnest wishes for the fight: the highest and the

lowest were equally eager; the general watching the

ardor of the soldiers, and the soldiers that of the gene­

ral. This universal zeal spread even to those employed

in taking the auspices ; for the chickens having refused

to feed, the auspex ventured to misrepresent the omen,

and reported to the consul that they had fed voraci­

ously.1 The consul, highly pleased, and giving notice

that the auspices were excellent, and that they were to

1 When the auspices were to he taken from the chickens

the keeper threw some of their food on the ground, in their

sight, and opened the door of their coop. If they did not

come out; if they came out slowly; if they refused to feed,

or ate in a careless manner, the omen was considered as bad.

On the contrary, if they rushed out hastily and ate greedily,

so that some of the food fell from their mouths on the ground,

this was considered as an omen of the best import.

