106 LIVY.

tor had ordered,) was no small incitement: rushing on

therefore like madmen, they disordered the enemy's

battalions at the very first onset; and the master of

the horse, when he saw at a distance the fire of the

oamp, which was a signal agreed on, made a season­

able attack on their rear. The Samnites, thus assailed

on every side, fled different ways. A vast number,

who had gathered into a body through fear, yet from

confusion incapable of acting, were surrounded and

cut to pieces. The enemy's camp was taken and plun­

dered ; and the soldiers being laden with the spoil, the

dictator led them back to the Roman camp, highly re­

joiced at the.success, but still more at finding, contrary

to their expectation, every thing there safe, except a

small part only, which was injured or destroyed by the

fire.

24. They then marched back to Sora [A. U. C. 440.

B.C. 312]; and the new consuls, Marcus Petilius and

Cains Sulpicius, receiving the army from the dictator

Fabius, discharged a great part of the veteran soldiers,

having brought with them new cohorts to supply their

place. ' Now while, on account of the difficulties pre­

sented by the situation of the city, no mode of attack

could be devised which promised any certainty of suc­

cess, and the taking of it must either he done at the

expense of a great deal of time, or at a desperate risk,

a townsman deserting, came out of the town privately

by night, and, when he had got as far as the Roman

watches, desired to be conducted instantly to the con­

suls : which being complied with, he made them an

offer of delivering the place into their hands. From

his answers to their questions respecting the means by

which he intended to accomplish his design, it appeared

to be not ill formed ; and he persuaded them to remove

the Roman camp, which was almost close to the walls,

to the distance of six miles; alleging that this would

render the guards by day and the watches by night

the less vigilant. He then desired that some cohorts

should post themselves the following night in the woody

places under the town, and took with himself ten chosen

