LIVY.

the Faliscians likewise, who had for many years lived

in friendship with Rome, had united their arms with

those of the Etrurians. The consideration of the near

vicinity of that nation quickened the attention of the

senate; insomuch, that they passed a decree that he足

ralds should be sent to demand satisfaction : which

being refused, war was declared against the Faliscians

by direction of the senate and order of the people ;

and the consuls were desired to determine, by lots,

which of them should lead an army from Samnium

into Etruria. Carvilius had, in the mean time, taken

from the Samnites Volana, Palumbinum, and Hercu-

laneum : Volana after a siege of a few days, Palumbi足

num the same day on w hich he approached the walls.

At Herculaneum, it is true, the consul had two regular

engagements without any decisive advantage on either

side, and with greater loss than was suffered by the

enemy: but afterwards, encamping on the spot, he

shut them up within their works, besieged, and took

the town. In these three towns were taken or slain

ten thousand men, of whom the prisoners composed

somewhat the greater part. On the consuls casting

lots for the provinces, Etruria fell to Carvilius, to the

great satisfaction of the soldiers, who now found the

cold too severe in Samnium. Papirius was opposed at

Sepinum with a more powerful force : he was obliged

to fight often in pitched battles ; often on a march,

and often under the walls of the city, against the ir足

ruptions of the enemy; and could neither besiege nor

engage them on equal terms; for the Samnites had not

only the advantage of walls, but likewise of numbers

of men and arms to protect their walls. At length,

after a great deal of fighting, he forced them to submit

to a regular siege. This he carried on with vigor, and

made himself master of the city by means of his works

and by storm. The rage of the soldiers on this occa足

sion caused the greatest slaughter in the taking of the

town ; seven thousand four hundred fell by the sword ;

the number of the prisoners did not amount to three

thousand. The spoil, of which the quantity was very

