MVY.

administration of that office ; a man worthy of you,

worthy of his father.' The recommendation was deemed

well founded, and all the remaining centuries voted

Quintus Fabius and Publius Decius consuls. This

year great numbers were prosecuted by the ediles, for

having in possession larger quantities of land than the

state allowed: and hardly any were acquitted: by

which means a very great restraint was laid on exor­

bitant covetousness.

14. Whilst the new consuls, [A.U.C. 455. B.C. 297]

Quintus Fabius Maximus, a fourth, and Publius De­

cius Mus, a third time, were settling between them­

selves as to which should command against the Sam-

nites, and which against the Etrurians, and what num­

ber of forces would be sufficient for this and for that

province, and which would be the fitter commander

in each war, ambassadors arrived from Sutrium, Ne-

pete, and Falerii, with intelligence that the states of

Etruria were holding assemblies on the subject of suing

for peace. In consequence of this information, the

whole force of their arms was directed against Sam-

nium. The consuls took different routes, in order to

secure the more ready supply of provisions, and to

leave the enemy in the greater uncertainty on what

quarter the war would fall. Fabius led his legions to­

wards Samnium through the territory of Sora, and De­

cius his through that of Sidicinum. As soon as they

arrived at the frontiers, both advanced briskly, spread­

ing devastation wherever they came ; but still took care

to explore the country, to a distance beyond where the

troops were employed in plundering. The enemy had

posted themselves in readiness for battle, in a retired

valley near Tifernum ; intending, as soon as the Ro­

mans should enter it, to fall on them with advantage of

the ground ; but they escaped the snare. Fabius send­

ing away his baggage to a place of safety, and setting

a small guard over it, gave notice to his soldiers that

a battle was at hand, and advanced to the place where

he had been told the enemy lay in ambush. The Sam-

nites, disappointed in the hope of making an unex-

