HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXI. 305

lity than of the number of their slain ; for among the

killed were several of equestrian rank, five military

tribunes, and three prefects of the allies. Immedi­

ately after this battle Hannibal removed into Liguria ;

Sempronius to Luca. On Hannibal's arrival among

the Ligurians, that people, in order to convince him of

their sincerity in the treaty of peace and alliance which

they had concluded, delivered into his bands two Ro­

man questors, Caius Fulvius and Lucius Lucretius,

with two military tribunes, and five persons of eques­

trian rank, mostly the sons of senators; all of whom

they had seized in a treacherous manner.

60. While these transactions passed in Italy, Cneius

Cornelius Scipio, who was sent with the fleet and army

into Spain, after his departure from the mouth of the

Rhone, sailing round the Pyrenean mountains, put into

Emporiae, where he disembarked his army; and begin­

ning with the Lacetans, partly by renewing old treaties,

partly by forming new ones, he brought under the do­

minion of the Romans the whole coast, as far as the

river Iberus. The reputation of clemency which he

acquired by these means had the most powerful effect,

not only on the maritime states, but on the more bar­

barous nations in the interior and mountainous parts;

insomuch that, besides agreeing to terms of peace, they

concluded also an alliance with him, and several strong

cohorts of auxiliaries were raised among them. The

country on this side the Iberus was the province of

Hanno, whom Hannibal had left behind for the defence

of that tract. Seeing, therefore, a necessity, before the

whole country should join the enemy, of exerting him­

self to obviate that evil, he encamped his forces within

sightxif them, and offered them battle: this offer the

Roman did not hesitate to accept; for, knowing that

he must fight Hanno and Hasdrubal, he was better

pleased to engage each of them separately than to

have to deal with both together. Nor was the dispute

very strongly contested. Six thousand of the enemy

were slain and two thousand taken, besides the guard

liv. vol. in. u

