100 LIVY.

on both sides, were used to steady combat, and to pre­

serve their ranks. But the Macedonian phalanx was

unapt for motion, and composed of similar 'parts

throughout: the Roman line less compact, consisting

of several various parts, was easily divided, as occa­

sion required, and as easily conjoined. Then what

soldier is comparable to the Roman in the throwing

up of works ? who better calculated to endure fatigue?

Alexander if overcome in one battle could make no

other effort. The Roman, whom Caudium, whom

.Cannae, did not crush, what fight could crush? In

truth, even should events have been favorable to him

at first, he would have often wished for the Persians,

the Indians, and the effeminate tribes of Asia, as op­

ponents ; and would have acknowleged that bis wars

had been waged with women, as we are told was said

by Alexander, king of Epirus, after receiving his mor­

tal wound, in relation to the battles fought in Asia by

this very youth, and when compared with those in

which himself had been engaged. Indeed, when I re­

flect that in the first Punic war a contest was main­

tained by the Romans with the Carthaginians at sea

for twenty-four years, I can scarcely suppose that the

life of Alexander would have been long enough for the

finishing of one war with either of those nations. And

perhaps, as the Punic state was united to the Roman

by ancient treaties, and as similar apprehensions might

arm against a common foe those two nations the most

potent of the time, he might have been overwhelmed in

a Punic and a Roman war at once. The Romans have

had experience of the boasted prowess of the Macedo­

nians in arms, not indeed when they were led by

Alexander, or when their power was at the height, but

in the wars against Antiochus, Philip, and Perses;

and so far were they from sustaining any losses, that

they incurred not even danger. Let not the truth give

offence (o any, nor our civil wars be brought into men­

tion ; never were we worsted by an enemy's cavalry,

never by their infantry, never in open fight, never on

equal ground, much less when the ground was favor-

