HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK VIII. 43

the crowd, (who expressed a degree of barbarous rage

which could scarce be conceived to exist in human

breasts,) prevailed on them to stop for a moment. She

then told them, with tears in her eyes, that she had a

husband and children, prisoners among the enemy ; and

that she hoped to be able, with the king's body, (if they

would grant it to her,) however disfigured, to ransom

her friends: this put an end to their outrages. The

remnants of his limbs were buried at Consentia, intirely

through the care of the woman; and his bones were

sent to Metapontum, to the enemy, from whence they

were conveyed to Epirus, to his wife Cleopatra, and

his sister Olympias ; the latter of whom was the mother,

the former the sister, of Alexander the Great. Such

was the melancholy end of Alexander of Epirus; of

which, although fortune did not allow him to engage in

hostilities with the Romans, yet, as he waged war in

Italy, I have thought it proper to give this brief ac­

count. This year, the fifth time since the building of

the city, the Lectisternium was performed at Rome,

for procuring the favor of the same deities to whom it

was addressed before.

25. The new consuls having by order of the people

declared war against the Samnites, exerted themselves

in more formidable preparations of every kind than

had been made against the Greeks; and about the

same time received a new accession of strength from

a quarter where they had no such expectation. The

Lucanians and Apulians, nations who until that time

had no kind of intercourse with the Roman people,

proposed an alliance with them, promising a supply

of men and arms for the war: a treaty of friend­

ship was accordingly concluded. At the same time

their affairs went on successfully in Samnium. Three

towns fell into their hands, Allifae, Callifae, and

Ruffrium; and the adjoining country, to a great ex­

tent, was on the first arrival of the consuls laid in­

tirely waste. As the commencement of their opera­

tions on this side was attended with so much success,

so the war in the other quarter, where the Greeks were

