HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK X. 193

great many who were unhurt yet fell as if thunder­

struck. Such were the changes of fortune on the left

wing of the Romans : on the right, Fahius had at first

protracted the time, as we mentioned above, in slow

operations; then as soon as he perceived that neither

the shout, nor the efforts of the enemy, nor the wea­

pons which they threw, retained their former force,

ordered the commanders of the cavalry to lead round

their squadrons to the wing of the Samnites, and, on

receiving the signal, to charge them in flank, with all

possible violence, he commanding at the same time

his infantry to advance leisurely and drive the enemy

from their ground. When he saw that they were un­

able to maintain their posts, and manifestly spent with

fatigue, drawing together all his reserves, whom he

bad kept fresh for that occasion, he made a brisk push

with the legions, giving the cavalry the signal to

charge. The Samnites could not support the shock,

but fled precipitately to their camp, passing by the

line of the Gauls, and leaving their allies to fight by

themselves. These stood in close order under cover

of their shields : Fabius, therefore, having heard of

the death of his colleague, ordered the squadron of

Campanian cavalry, in number about five hundred, to

fall back from the ranks, ride round, and attack the

rear of the Gallic line, sending the chief strength of

the third legion after these, with directions that wher­

ever they should see the enemy's troops disordered by

the charge, to follow the blow, and cut them to pieces

before they recovered from their consternation. After

vowing a temple and the spoils which might fall into

his hands to Jupiter the Victorious, he proceeded to

the camp of the Samnites, whither all their forces

were hurrying in confusion. The gates not affording

entrance to such very great numbers, those who were

necessarily excluded attempted resistance just at the

foot of the rampart, and here fell Gellius Egnatius the

Samnite general. These however were soon driven

within the rampart; the camp was taken after a slight

dispute ; and at the same time the Gauls were attacked

LIV. VOL. III. N

