HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK VIII. 17

the gods, to avert destruction from his friends, and

transfer it to the side of their enemies : accordingly,

all the terror and dismay went along with him ; at first

disturbed the battalions of the Latines, and then

spread universally over their whole line. This ap­

peared most evidently, in that wherever he was carried

by his horse, there they were seized with a panic, as

if struck by some pestilent constellation: but where

he fell, overwhelmed with darts, manifest consternation

took, possession of the cohorts of the Latines, so that

they fled from the spot, leaving it void to a consider­

able extent. At the same time the Romans, their

minds being delivered from the dread of the gods,

exerted themselves with fresh ardor, as if they were

then rushing to the first onset, on receiving the signal.

Then even the rorarii pushed forward among the an-

tepilani, and added strength to the spearmen and

principes ; and the veterans, resting on their right knee,

waited for the consul's nod to rise up to the fight.

10. Afterwards, in the course of the battle, the La­

tines had the advantage in some places, on account of

their superior numbers. The consul Manlius, who

had heard the circumstances of his colleague's death,

and, as was justly due to him, expressed his sentiments

of the glorious manner in which he died, both by tears

and by the praises to which it was intitled, hesitated a

while whether it were yet time for the veterans to

rise : then, judging it better to reserve them fresh for

the decisive blow, he ordered the accensi to advance

from the rear, before the standards. On their moving

forward, the Latines immediately called their veterans,

thinking their adversaries had done the same; and

when these by fighting furiously for a considerable

time had fatigued themselves, and either broken off

the points of their, spears, or blunted them, yet con­

tinuing to drive, back..their opponents, thinking that

the fate of the battle was nearly decided, and that they

had come to the last line, then the consul called to the

veterans, ' Now arise, fresh as you are, against men

who are fatigued, and think on your country, your

LIV. VOL. III. B

