LIVY.

Cneius Fulvius. This temptation not inducing any

one to stir from his station, one of the herdsmen, ad­

vancing close to the works, called out that others were

driving out those cattle at their leisure from the ruins

of the town ; why did they remain idle, when they

might safely drive them through the middle of the Ro­

man camp ? This being interpreted to the lieutenant-

general by some natives of Csere, and great impatience

prevailing through every company of the soldiers,

who, nevertheless, dared not to move without orders,

he commanded some who were skilled in the language

to observe attentively whether the dialect of the

herdsmen resembled that of rustics or of citizens:

these reported that their accent in speaking, their

manner and appearance, were all of a more polished

cast than suited such description of persons. ' Go

then,' said he, ' tell them that they may uncover the

ambush which they vainly conceal; that the Romans

understand all their devices, and can now be no more

taken by stratagem than they can be conquered by

arms.' When these words were heard, and carried to

those who lay in ambush, they immediately arose from

their lurking place, and marched out in order into the

plain, which was open to view on every side. The

lieutenant-general, thinking their force too powerful

for his small band to cope with, sent in haste to Vale­

rius for support, and in the mean time, by himself,

sustained the enemy's onset.

5. On receiving his message, the dictator ordered

the standards to move, and the troops to follow in

arms. But every thing was executed more quickly,

almost, than ordered. The men in an instant snatched

up their standards, and were with difficulty restrained

from running impetuously on, being stimulated both

by indignation at their late defeat, and by the shouts

striking their ears with increasing vehemence as the

contest grew hotter. They therefore urged each other,

and pressed the standard bearers to quicken their

pace. The dictator, the more eagerly he saw them

push forward, took the more pains to repress their

