LIVY.

has since been found who would follow his example ;

all censors having, in case of the death of a colleague,

abdicated the office. As for you, neither the expira­

tion of the time of your censorship, nor the resignation

of your colleague, nor law, nor shame restrains you.

Your fortitude is arrogance ; your boldness is a con­

tempt of gods and men. Appius Claudius, in consi­

deration of the dignity of that office which you have

borne, and of the respect due to it, I should be sorry

not only to offer you personal violence, but even to

address you in language too severe. With respect

to what I have hitherto said, your pride and obstinacy

forced me to speak. And now, unless you pay obe­

dience to the iEmilian law, I shall order you to be led

to prison. Nor, since a rule has been established by

our ancestors, that in the election of censors, unless

two shall obtain the legal number of suffrages, neither

shall be returned, but the election deferred,—will I

suffer you, who could not singly be created censor, to

hold the censorship without a colleague.' Having

spoken to this effect, he ordered the censor to be

seized, and borne to prison. But although six of the

tribunes approved of the proceeding of their colleague,

three gave their support to Appius, on his appealing

to them, and he held the censorship alone, to the great

disgust of all ranks of men.

35. While such was the state of affairs at Rome, the

Etrurians had laid siege to Sutrium, and the consul

Fabius, as he was marching along the foot of the

mountains, with a design to succor the allies, and at­

tempt the enemy's works, if he should see it practica­

ble, was met by their army prepared for battle. The

wide extended plain below showing the greatness of

their force, the consul, in order to remedy his defi­

ciency in point of number by advantage of the ground,

changed the direction of his route a little towards the

hills, where the way was rugged and covered with

stones, and then formed his troops facing the enemy.

The Etrurians, thinking of nothing but the multitude

of their men, on which alone they depended, advanced

