HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXI. 273

out loss; the destruction however was greater among

the beasts of burden than among the men. Thence­

forward the mountaineers made their attacks in smaller

parties, more like robbers than an army; at one time

on the van, at another on the rear, just as the ground

happened to afford them an advantage, or as stragglers

advancing before the rest, or staying behind, gave them

an opportunity. As the driving the elephants through

the narrow roads, even with all the haste that could be

made, occasioned much loss of time, so wherever they

went they effectually secured the troops from the ene­

my ; who, being unaccustomed to such creatures, dared

not to come near them. On the ninth day the army

completed the ascent to the summit of the Alps, mostly

through pathless tracts and wrong roads; into which

they had been led, either by the treachery of their

guides, or, when these were not trusted, rashly, on

the strength of their own conjectures, following the

courses of the valleys. On the summit they remained

encamped two days, in order to refresh the soldiers,

who were spent with toil and fighting; and in this time

several of the beasts which had fallen among the rocks,

following the tracts of the army, came into the camp.

Tired as the troops were, of struggling so long with

hardships, they found their terrors very much increased

by a fall of snow, this being the season of the setting

of the constellation of the Pleiades.1 The troops were

put in motion with the first light; and as they marched

slowly over ground which was intirely covered with

snow, dejection and despair being strongly marked in

every face, Hannibal went forward before the stan­

dards, and ordering the soldiers to halt on a projecting

eminence, from which there was a wide extended

prospect, made them take a view of Italy, and of the

plains about the Po, stretching along the foot of the

mountains; then told them that ' they were now scaling

the walls, not only of Italy, but of the city of Rome:

1 The beginning of November.

LIV. VOL. III.

S

