20 LIVY.

of a devoted consul: every part of (heir army had suf­

fered great slaughter: their spearmen and their first

rank were cut to pieces; and, both before and behind

their standards, multitudes were slain, until the vete­

rans at last restored their cause. Now, although the

forces of the Latines were reduced in an equal propor­

tion, yet still, for the purpose of procuring reinforce­

ments, either Latium, or the territory of the Volscians,

was nearer than Rome. Wherefore, if they approved

of it, he would with all speed call out the youth from

the states of the Latines and Volscians ; would march

back to Capua, with an army prepared for action, and,

while the Romans thought of nothing less than a bat­

tle, strike them with dismay by his unexpected arri­

val.' The misrepresentations contained in his letters,

which he despatched round Latium and the Volscian

nation, were the more easily credited by the people,

as they had not been present at the battle, and in con­

sequence a tumultuary army levied in haste assembled

from all quarters. This body the consul Torquatus

met at Trisanum, a place between Sinuessa and Min-

turnaj. Withput waiting to choose ground for camps,

both parties threw down their baggage in heaps, and

immediately began an engagement, which decided the

fate of the war: for the strength of the Latines was so

intirely broken fljat, on the consul leading his victo­

rious army to ravage their country, they all submitted

themselves to his mercy, and their submission was fol­

lowed by that of the Campanians. A forfeiture of a

portion of their territory was exacted from Latium and

Capua. The Latine lands, to which the Privernian

were added, and -also the Falernian, which had be­

longed to the people of Campania, as far as the river

Vulturnus, were distributed to the Roman commons.

Of two acres, the portion allotted to each, three-fourths

were assigned them in the Latine ground, the comple­

ment to be made up out of the Privernian. In the

Falernian, three acres were given to each, the addition

of one being made in consideration of the distance.

' Of the Latines, the Laurentians were exempted from,.A

