HISTORY OF ROME.— BOOK XXI. 303

was attempting to cross the Apennines, he was encoun­

tered by a storm so furious, that its effects almost

equalled in severity the disasters of the Alps. The

rain, which was attended with a high wind, being

driven directly into the men's faces, they at first

halted, because they must either have cast away their

arms, or, if they persisted to struggle forward, would

be whirled round by the hurricane, and thrown on the

ground. Afterwards, scarcely able to respire, they

turned their backs to the wind, and for a while sat

down. But now the whole atmosphere resounded

with loud thunder, and lightnings flashed between the

tremendous peals, by which all were stunned, and re­

duced by terror nearly to a state of insensibility. At

length, the violence of the rain abating, and the fury

of the wind increasing, the more necessary it was

judged to pitch their camp on the very spot where

they had been surprised by the tempest. But this was

in a manner beginning their toils anew; for neither

could they well spread their canvass nor fix the poles;

and such tents as they did get raised they could not

keep standing, the wind tearing and sweeping off every

thing in its way. And soon after, the water being

raised aloft by the force of the wind, and congealed by

the cold which prevailed above the summits of the

mountains, came down in such a torrent of snowy hail,

that the men, giving over all their endeavors, threw

themselves flat on their faces, buried under, rather

than protected by, their coverings. This was followed

by cold so intense, that when they wished to rise from

among the wretched crowd of prostrated men and cat­

tle, they were for a long time unable to effect it, their

sinews being so stiffly frozen that they were scarcely

able to bend their joints. In some time, when, after

many efforts, they at length regained the power of mo­

tion, and recovered some degree of spirits, and when

fires began to be kindled in a few places, every one

who was unable to assist himself had recourse to the

aid of others. Two days they remained in that spot,

