HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK X. 201

As he was marching his legions towards Luceria, to

which he was informed that the Samnites had laid

siege, the enemy met him on the border of the Luce-

rian territory. Rage supplied them, on this occasion,

with strength to equal his : the battle was stubbornly

contested, and the victory doubtful: the issue how­

ever proved more calamitous on the side of the Ro­

mans, both because they were unaccustomed to defeat,

and that on leaving the field they felt more sensibly

than during the heat of the action the number of their

wounds, and the loss of men which they had sustained.

In consequence of this, such dismay spread through

the camp as, had it seized them during the engage­

ment, must have occasioned their overthrow. Even as

the matter stood, they passed the night in great anx­

iety, expecting every instant that the camp would be

assaulted by the Samnites; or that at the first light

they should be obliged to stand a battle with an ap­

parently powerful foe. On the side of the enemy,

however, although there was less loss, yet there was

not greater courage. As soon as day appeared they

wished to retire without any more fighting ; but there

was only one road, and that leading close by the post

of their enemy ; so that on their march it seemed as

if they were advancing directly to attack the camp.

The consul therefore ordered his men to take arms,

and to follow him to the field, giving directions to the

lieutenants-general, tribunes, and the prefects of the

allies, in what manner he would have each of them

pet. They all assured him that ' they would do every

thing in their power, but that the soldiers were quite

dejected ; that, from their own wounds and the groans

of the dying, they had passed the whole night without

sleep ; that if the enemy had approached the camp

before day, so great were the fears of the troops, that

they would certainly have deserted their standards.

Even ftt present they were restrained from flight

merely by shame ; and in other respects were little

better than vanquished men.' This account made the

consul judge it necessary to go himself among the sol­

