HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK X. 189

of battle was fixed. The part of maintaining the fight

was committed to the Sainnites and Gauls ; and the

Etrurians and Umbrians were ordered to attack the

Roman camp during the heat of the engagement. This

plan was frustrated by three Clusian deserters, who

came over by night to Fabius ; and after disclosing the

above designs were sent back with presents, in order

that they might discover and bring intelligence of any

new scheme which should be formed. The consuls

then wrote to Flavins and Postumius to move their

armies; the one from the Faliscian, the other from the

Vatican country, towards Clusium ; and to ruin the

enemy's territory by every means in their power. The

news of these depredations drew the Etrurians from

Sentinum to protect their own region. The consuls,

in their absence, practised every means to bring on an

engagement. For two days they endeavored, by seve­

ral attacks, to provoke the enemy to fight; in which

time, however, nothing worth mention was performed.

A few fell on each side ; but still the minds of the Ro­

mans were so irritated as to wish for a general engage­

ment, yet nothing decisive was hazarded. On the third

day both parties marched out their whole force to the

field : here, while the armies stood in order of battle,

a hind, chased by a wolf from the mountains, ran

through the plain between the two lines: there the

animals turned their' courses to different sides ; the

hind towards the Gauls, the wolf towards the Romans.

Way was made between the ranks for the wolf; the

Gauls slew the hind with their javelins : on which one

of the Roman soldiers in the van said, ' To that side,

where you see an animal sacred to Diana lying pros­

trate, flight and slaughter are directed ; on this side

the victorious wolf of Mars, safe and untouched, re­

minds us of our founder, and of our descent from that

deity.' The Gauls were posted on the right wing, the

Samnites on the left: against the latter Fabius drew

up, as his right wing, the first and third legions ;

against the Gauls, Decius formed the left wing of the

fifth and sixth. The second and fourth were employed

