HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXI. 289

1 from the Gauls, was bringing over the heavy troops,

Mago and his horsemen, in one day's march after

P™ passing the river, came up with the enemy at Pla-

mt centia. In a few days after Hannibal fortified a

"tf camp within six miles of Placentia ; and next day,

■f" drawing up his forces in the enemy's view, offered

lf™ them battle.

v| 48. On the night following there was a violent out-

e Is rage committed in the Roman camp by the auxiliary

Gauls ; which, however, was attended with greater

I * tumult than loss of lives. A number of them, amount­

ed ing to two thousand foot and two hundred horse, kill-

ffr ing the guards at the gates, deserted to Hannibal. The

Pn' Carthaginian received them with expressions of much

kindness; and after animating their zeal by prospects

of vast rewards, dismissed them to their respective

i' states, to engage the rest of their countrymen in his

II interest. Scipio, apprehending that this outrage was

a signal for a general revolt of the Gauls; and that, in-

'.' fected with the same treacherous spirit, they would run

* like madmen to arms, though still very ill of his wound,  
i marched away in silence at the fourth watch of the

following night, toward the river Trebia, and removed

i his camp to higher grounds, and hills less advantageous

to the operations of cavalry. His departure was not so

secret as at the Ticinus; Hannibal, therefore, sending

on first the Numidians, afterwards all his cavalry, would

have caused great disorder, at least in the rear of the

army, had not the Numidians, out of their greediness

for plunder, turned aside into the forsaken camp of the

Romans. While searching narrowly every part of it,

without finding any prize to compensate for the loss of

time, they let the enemy slip out of their hands. After­

wards, coming within sight of the Romans, when they

had already passed the Trebia, and were pitching their

camp, they cut off a few, who loitered behind the rest

on that side of the river. Scipio, unable to endure any

longer the pain of his wound, which was exasperated

by the rough motion in travelling, and at the same

time judging it prudent to wait for his colleague, (for

LIV. VOL. III. T

