218 LIVY.

a great quantity of arms, and eighteen military stan­

dards.

44. The joy of one Roman army was enhanced by

the success of the other. Each consul, with the ap­

probation of his colleague, gave to his soldiers the

plunder of the town which he had taken ; and, when

the houses were cleared, set them on fire. Thus, on

the same day, Aquilonia and Cominium were both re­

duced to ashes. The consuls then united their camps,

where mutual congratulations took place between them

and between their soldiers. Here, in the view of the

two armies, Carvilius bestowed on his men commenda­

tions and presents according to the desert of each ; and

Papirius likewise, whose troops had been engaged in a

variety of actions, in the field, in the assault of the

camp, and in that of the city, presented Spurius Nau-

tius, Spurius Papirius, his nephew, four centurions,

and a company of the spearmen, with bracelets and

crowns of gold:—to Nautius, on account of his beha­

vior at the head of his detachment, when he had»terri­

fied the enemy with the appearance as of a numerous

army; to young Papirius, on account of his zealous

exertions with the cavalry, both in the battle and in

harassing the Samnites in their flight by night, when

they withdrew privately from Aquilonia; and to the

centurions and company of soldiers, because they were

the first who gained possession of the gate and wall of

that town. All the horsemen he presented with gor­

gets and bracelets of silver, on account of their distin­

guished conduct on many occasions. A council was

then held to consider of the propriety either of re­

moving both armies, or one at least, out of Samnium ;

in which it was concluded that the lower the strength

of the Samnites was reduced, the greater perseverance

and vigor ought to be used in prosecuting the war until

they should be effectually crushed, that Samnium might

be given up to the succeeding consuls in a state of per­

fect subjection. As there was now no army of the

enemy which could be supposed capable of disputing

