254 Ll VY.

terred the other states from joining in alliance with

Rome. For thus the oldest member of their assembly-

replied, ' Where is your sense of shame, Romans,

when you require of us that we should prefer your

friendship to that of the Carthaginians ? The Sagun-

tines, who embraced it, have been abandoned by you :

in which abandonment you, their allies, have shown

greater cruelty than the Carthaginians, their enemy,

showed in destroying them. What I recommend is,

that you seek connexions where the fatal disaster of

Saguntum is unknown. To the states of Spain the

ruins of that city will be both a melancholy and forci­

ble warning, not to confide in the faith or alliance of

Rome.' They were then ordered to depart immedi­

ately from the territories of the Volscians ; nor did

they afterwards meet from any assembly in Spain a

more favorable reception ; therefore, after making a

circuit through all parts of that country without effect­

ing any thing, they passed over into Gaul.

20. At Ruscino they encountered a new and terrify­

ing spectacle; the people coming in arms to the assem­

bly, for such is the custom of that country. After

displaying in magnificent terms the renown and the

valor of the Roman people, and the greatness of their

empire, they requested that the Gauls would not grant

a passage through their cities and territories to the

Carthaginian, who was preparing to invade Italy. On

which, we are told, such a laugh was raised, accompa­

nied by a general outcry of displeasure, that the ma­

gistrates and the elder members of the assembly could

with difficulty bring the younger men into order, so

unreasonable and so absurd did it appear to require

that the Gauls should not suffer the war to pass into

Italy, but should draw it on themselves, and expose

their own lands to devastation, instead of those of

strangers. When the uproar was at length appeased,

an answer was given to the ambassadors, that ' the

Gauls had never received either any kindness from

the Romans, or ill treatment from the Carthaginians,

that should induce them to take arms either in favor of

