HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK X. 103

chose Lucius Cornelius Scipio and Cneius Fulvius.

In the beginning of this year ambassadors came from

the Lucanians to the new consuls, with complaints that

' the Samnites, finding that they could not, by any

offers, tempt them to take part in the war, had marched

an army in a hostile manner into their country, which

they were now laying waste ; intending, by these vio­

lent measures, to force them into a compliance. They

declared that the nation of the Lucanians thought their

former errors too many, and were so firmly fixed in

their resolution, that they would rather undergo every

kind of suffering and hardship than ever again violate

the reverence due to the Roman name: besought the

senate to take the people of Lucania into their protec­

tion, and defend them from the injustice and outrage

of the Samnites; and that, on their part, though the

undertaking a war with the Samnites imposed on them

a necessity of being faithful to the Romans, they were

nevertheless willing to give hostages.'

12. The deliberation of the senate was short. They

all, to a man, concurred in opinion that a compact

should be entered into with the Lucanians, and satis­

faction demanded from the Samnites: accordingly, a

favorable answer was returned to the Lucanians, and

the alliance concluded. Heralds were then sent to re­

quire of the Samnites that they should depart from the

country of the allies, and withdraw their troops from

the Lucanian territory. These were met by persons

despatched for the purpose by the Samnites, who gave

them warning, that ' if they appeared at any assembly

in Samnium they must not expect to depart in safety.'

As soon as this was heard at Rome the senate voted,

and the people ordered, that war should be declared

against the Samnites. The consuls then, dividing the

provinces between them, Etruria fell to Scipio, the

Samnites to Fulvius; and they set out by different

routes, each against the enemy allotted to him. Sci­

pio, while he expected a tedious campaign, like that of

the preceding year, was met near Volaterra by the

Etrurians, in order of battle. The fight lasted through

