274 LIVY.

that all the rest would be plain and smooth; and after

one, or at most a second battle, they would have the

bulwark and capital of Italy in their power and dispo­

sal.' The army then began to advance, the enemy

now desisting from any farther attempts on them, ex­

cept by trifling parties for pillaging, as opportunity

offered. But the way was much more difficult than it

had been in the ascent; the declivity on the Italian

side of the Alps being in most places shorter, and con­

sequently more perpendicular; while the whole way

was narrow and slippery, so that the soldiers could not

prevent their feet from sliding, nor, if they made the

least false step, could they, on falling, stop themselves

in the place: and thus men and beasts tumbled pro­

miscuously over one another.

36. They then came to a ridge much narrower than

the others, and composed of rock so upright, that a

light-armed soldier, making the trial, could with much

difficulty, by laying hold of bushes and roots, which

appeared here and there, accomplish the descent. In

this place the precipice, originally great, had by a

late falling away of the earth been increased to the

depth of at least one thousand feet. Here the cavalry

stopped, as if at the end of their journey, and Hanni­

bal, wondering what could be the cause of the troops

halting, was told that the cliff was impassable. Then

going up himself to view the place, it seemed clear to

him that he must lead his army in a circuit, though

ever so great, and through tracts never trodden before.

That way, however, was found to be impracticable.

The old snow indeed had become hard, and being co­

vered with the new of a moderate depth, the men

found good footing as they walked through it; but

when that was dissolved by the treading of so many

men and beasts, they then trod on the naked ice be­

low. Here they were much impeded, because the foot

could take no hold on the smooth ice, and was besides

the more apt to slip, on account of the declivity of the

ground; and whenever they attempted to rise, either

