178 LIVY.

Romans had by this time passed over the rampart, and

filled the camp with slaughter and confusion: the

Samnite army had their disorder increased by a sud­

den insurrection of their prisoners; some of whom,

getting loose, set the rest at liberty, while others

snatched the arms which were tied up among the bag­

gage, and being intermixed with the troops, raised a-

tumult more terrible than the battle itself. They then

performed a memorable exploit; for, making an attack

on Statins Minacius, the general, as he was passing

between the ranks and encouraging his men, they dis­

persed the horsemen who attended him, gathered

round himself, and dragged him, sitting on his horse,

a prisoner to the Roman consul. This brought back,

the foremost battalions of the Samnites, and the bat­

tle, which seemed to have been already decided, was

renewed : but they could not support it long. Six

thousand of them were slain, and two thousand fire

hundred taken, among whom were four military tri­

bunes, together with thirty standards, and, what gave

the conquerors greater joy than all, seven thousand

four hundred prisoners were recovered. The spoil

which had been taken from the allies was immense,

and the owners were summoned by a proclamation to

claim and receive their property. On the day ap­

pointed, all the effects, the owners of which did not

appear, were given to the soldiers, who were obliged

to sell them, in order that they might have nothing to

think of but their duty.

21. The depredations committed on the lands of

Campania had occasioned a violent alarm at Rome;

and it happened that about the same time intelligence

was brought from Etruria that, after the departure of

Volumnius' army, all that country had risen up in

arms, together with Gellius Egnatius, the leader of the

Samnites; that the Umbrians were invited to join in

the insurrection, and the Gauls tempted with high

offers. Terrified at this news, the senate ordered the

courts of justice to be shut, and a levy to be made of

men of every description. Accordingly, not only free­

