284 LIVY.

if any one, taking away the ensigns from both, should

•how this day the Carthaginians and the Romans, I

am confident that he would not know of which army

he was consul? On my part, soldiers, I esteem it a

circumstance of no trivial import that there is not

one of you who has not often been an eye-witness of

my performing some military exploit; and to whom,

on the other hand, I cannot, as having been a specta­

tor and witness of his bravery, recount his own honor­

able acts, with the marks of time and place. At the

head of troops whom I have a thousand times honored

with praises and presents, I, who have been a pupil to

you all, before I became your commander, shall enter

the field against-men unknowing and unknown to each

other.

44. ' On whatever side I turn my eyes I see spirit

and firmness; a veteran body of infantry, cavalry

composed of the most gallant nations: you, our most

brave and faithful allies, and you, Carthaginians, ready

to fight in the cause of your country, and at the same

time with the justest resentment. We are the assail­

ants in the war, and are carrying an invasion into

Italy; we shall fight therefore with so much the

greater boldness and courage, as he who makes the

attack has ever more confidence and spirit than he

who stands on the defensive. Besides, we are inflamed

and stimulated by reflections on past sufferings, by in­

juries and indignities; for, first, they insisted that I,

your leader, should be delivered up to punishment,

with every one concerned in the siege of Saguntum.

Had we been put into their hands, there is no degree

of torture which they would not have made us suffer.

That nation, so unbounded are its cruelty and arro­

gance, would have the whole world at its disposal;

thinks it has a right to impose regulations on us, and to

prescribe with whom we are to have peace, with whom

war; circumscribes and shuts us up within bounda­

ries of mountains and rivers, which we must not pass ;

yet observes not itself the limits which it establishes.

