HISTORY OF ROME. G'J .—BOOK IX.

restoration of their own, nor by additional neaps of

other men's property ; whose inhuman rage is not sati­

ated by the death of the guilty, by the surrender of

their lifeless bodies, and by their goods accompanying

the surrender of the owner; who cannot be appeased

otherwise than by giving them our blood to drink, and

our entrails to be torn. Samnites, war is just when it

becomes necessary, and arms are clear of impiety when

men have no hope left but in arms. Wherefore, as the

issue of every human undertaking depends chiefly on

men's acting either with or without the favor of the

gods, be assured that the former wars you waged in

opposition to the gods more than to men ; in this, which

we are now to undertake, you will act under the im­

mediate guidance of the gods themselves.'

' 2. After uttering these predictions, not more favor­

able than true, he led out the troops, and placed his

camp about Caudium, as much out of view as possible.

From thence he sent to Calatia, where he heard that

the Roman consuls were encamped, ten soldiers, in the

habit of shepherds, and ordered them to keep some

cattle feeding in several different places, at a small dis­

tance from the Roman posts; and that, when they fell

in with any of their foragers, they should all agree in

the same story, that the legions of the Samnites were

then in Apulia, besieging Luceria with their whole

force, and very near becoming masters of it. Such a

rumor had been industriously spread before, and had

already reached the Romans; but these prisoners caused

them to give it greater credit, especially as they all

concurred in the same report. The Romans did not

hesitate to resolve on carrying succor to the Lucerians,

because they were good and faithful allies ; and for this

farther reason, lest all Apulia, through apprehension

of the impending danger, might go over to the enemy.

The only point which came under deliberation was, by

what road they should go. There were two roads lead­

ing to Luceria, one along the coast of the upper sea,

wide and open ; but, as it was the safer, so it was pro-

portionably longer: the other, which was shorter,

