8 LIVY.

pendency of Latium, will yet pay so much regard td

the connexion subsisting between us, as to offer an as­

sociation on terms of equality, as it has pleased the

gods that the strength of both should be, as it is, com­

pletely balanced. One of the consuls must be chosen

out of Latium, the other out of Rome; the senate must

consist of an equal number of each nation ; we must

become one people, one republic; and, in order that

both may have the same sea. of government, and the

same name, as one side or the other must make the

concession, let this, to the happiness of both, have the

advantage of being deemed the mother country, and

let us all be called Romans.' The Romans happened

to have a consul, Titus Manlius, of a temper as vehe­

ment as that of Annius, who, so far from restraining

his anger, openly declared that if the conscript fathers

should be so infatuated as to receive laws from a man

of Setia, he would come into the senate, with his sword

in hand, and put to death every Latine that he should

find in their house ; then turning to the statue of Jupi­

ter, he exclaimed, 'Jupiter, hear these impious de­

mands; hear justice and equity. O Jupiter, are you

as if overpowered and made captive, to behold in your

consecrated temple a foreign consul and a foreign se­

nate ? Are these, Latines, the treaties which the Roman

king, Tullus, made with the Albans your forefathers,

or which Lucius Tarquinius afterwards concluded with

yourselves? Does not the fight at the lake Regillus

recur to your thoughts? Are your calamities of old,

and our recent kindnesses towards you, intirely ob­

literated from your memories V

6. These words of the consul were followed by ex­

pressions of indignation from the senators; and it is

related, that in reply to the frequent addresses to the

gods, whom the consuls often invoked as witnesses to

the treaties, Annius was heard to express contempt of

the divinity of the Roman Jupiter. However, being

inflamed with wrath, and quitting the porch of the

temple with hasty steps, he fell down the stairs, and

was dashed against a stone at the bottom with such

