10 LIVY.

ready described, they marched forth to battle. Man-

lius commanded the right wing ; Decius the left. At

the beginning the conflict was maintained with equal

strength on both sides, and with equal courage. After­

wards, the Roman spearmen on the left wing, unable to

withstand the violent push made by the Latines, re­

treated to the principes. On this disorder happening,

the consul Decius called to Marcus Valerius, with a

loud voice, ' Valerius, we want the aid of the gods:

as public pontiff of the Roman people, dictate to me

the words in which I may devote myself for the le­

gions.' The pontiff then directed him to take the

gown called pretexta, and with his head covered and

his hand thrust up under the gown to his chin, stand­

ing on a spear laid under, his feet to repeat these

words: ' O Janus, Jupiter, Father Mars, Quirinus,

Bellona, you Lares, you gods Novensiles,1 you gods

Indigetes, you divinities, under whose dominion we

and our enemies are, and you gods of the infernal re­

gions, I beseech you, I adore you, I implore of you,

that you may propitiously grant strength and victory

to the Roman* people, the Quirites, and affect the

enemies of the Roman people, the Quirites, with

terror, dismay, and death. In such manner as I have

expressed in words, so do I devote the legions, and the

auxiliaries of our foes, together with myself, to the

infernal gods, and to earth, for the republic of the Ro­

mans, for the army, legions, and auxiliaries of the

Roman people, the Quirites.' After he had uttered

these solemn words, he ordered his lictors to go to

Titus Manlius, and to inform his colleague without

delay that he had devoted himself for the army. Then

girding himself in the Gabine cincture, and taking his

arms, he leaped on his horse, and plunged into the

midst of the enemy. He appeared in the view of both

armies much more majestic than one of the human

race, as if sent from heaven to expiate all the wrath of

1 The Novensiles were nine deities brought to Rome by

the Sabines : Lara, Vesta, Minerva, Feronia, Concord, Faith,

Fortune, Chance, Health.

