50 LIVY.

received, (hardly one of them having come out of the

hattle unhurt,) that he took Cutina by scalade, and

afterwards Cingilia. The spoil of both cities he gave

to the soldiers, in consideration of their having bravely

surmounted the obstruction both of gates and walls.

30. The commanders entered Samnium without

having obtained any particularly favorable indications

in the auspices; an ominous circumstance, which

pointed, not at the event of war, for that was prosper­

ous, but at the furious passions and the quarrels which

broke out between the leaders: for Papirius the dic­

tator returning to Rome in order to take the auspices

anew, in consequence of a caution received from the

aruspex, left strict orders with the master of the horse

to remain in his post, and not to engage in battle

during his absence. After the departure of the dic­

tator, Fabius having discovered by his scouts that the

enemy were in as unguarded a state as if there was

n'ot a single Roman in their neighborhood, the high-

spirited youth, (either conceiving indignation at the sole

authority in'every point appearing to be lodged in the

hands of the dictator, or induced by the opportunity of

striking an important blow,) having made the necessary

preparations and dispositions, marched to a place called

Imbrinium, and there fought a battle with the Samnites.

His success in the fight was such, that there was no

one circumstance which could have been improved to

more advantage if the dictator had been present. The

leader was not wanting to the soldiers, nor the soldiers

to their leader. The cavalry too, (finding after re­

peated charges that they could not break the ranks,)

by the advice of Lucius Cominius, a military tribune,

pulled off the bridles from their horses and spurred

them on so furiously that no power could withstand

them : forcing their way through the thickest of the

enemy, they bore down every thing before them ; and

the infantry, seconding the charge, -the whole body

was thrown into confusion. Of these, twenty thou­

sand are said to have fallen on that day. Some ac­

counts say that there were two battles fought during

