HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXI. 307

try on this side of the Iherus. Scipio, leading his army

10 take vengeance on the Illergetans, thus abandoned

by the author of their revolt, and driving them all into

Athanagia, invested the city, which was the capital of

the state. In the space of a few days he reduced them

to intire submission and obedience, compelled thein to

give a greater number of hostages than before, and also

to pay a sum of money as a fine. From thence he pro­

ceeded against the Ausetanians near the Iberus, who

had likewise joined in a league with the Carthaginians.

After he had invested their city, the Lacetans attempted

by night to bring succor to their neighbors; but he

surprised them by an ambuscade, when they were close

to the city, and just about to enter; twelve thousand of

them were slain, and the rest, mostly without their

arms, dispersing up and down through the country,

fled to their homes by different ways. Neither would

the besieged have beeu able to make a defence, but for

the severity of the winter, which obstructed the opera­

tions of the besiegers. The siege lasted thirty days,

during which the snow lay seldom less than four feet

deep, and it had covered over the machines and engines

of the Romans, in such a manner, as that of itself alone

it proved a sufficient defence against the fires which

were often thrown on them by the enemy. At last,

Hamusitus their chieftain, having fled away to Has-

drubal, they capitulated on the terms of paying twenty

talents of silver.1 The army then returned into winter

quarters at Tarraco.

62. During this winter, at Rome and in its vicinity,

many prodigies either happened, or, as is not unusual

when people's minds have once taken a turn towards

superstition, many were reported and credulously ad­

mitted. Among others, it was said, that an infant of

a reputable family, and only six months old, had in

the herb-market called out ' Io, triumphe that in

the cattle-market an ox had of his own accord mounted

3875/.

