HISTORY OF ROME. 269 . BOOK XXI.

from the bank of the Rhone the consul Pnblius Cor­

nelius had come with his forces in order of battle

to the camp of the enemy, intending to fight them

without delay. But finding the fortifications aban­

doned, and concluding that, as they had got the start

of him so far, it would be difficult to overtake them, he

inarched back to the sea, where his ships lay ; for he

judged that he might thus with greater ease and safety

meet Hannibal on his descent from the Alps. How­

ever, not to leave Spain, the province which the lots

had assigned to his care, destitute of the aid of Ro­

man troops, he sent his brother Cneius Scipio with

the greater part of his forces against Hasdrubal, with

the expectation not merely of protecting old allies, and

acquiring new, but of driving him out of Spain. He

himself, with a very small force, repaired to Genoa,

proposing, with the army which was stationed on the

Po, to provide for the security of Italy. From the

Druentia, Hannibal, passing through a tract in general

level, without any molestation from the Gauls inha­

biting those regions, arrived at the Alps. And now,

notwithstanding that the men had already conceived'

notions of the scene from report, which, in cases capa­

ble of misrepresentation, generally goes beyond the

truth, yet the present view exhibited such objects as

renewed all their terrors ; the height of the mountains,

the snows almost touching the sky, the wretched huts

standing on the cliffs, the cattle and beasts shivering with

the cold, the people squalid and in uncouth dress, all

things, in short, animate and inanimate, stiffened with

frost, besides other circumstances more shocking to

the sight than can be represented in words. As they

marched up the first acclivities, they beheld the emir

nences which hung over them covered with parties of

the mountaineers, who, if they had posted themselves

in the valleys out of view, and, rushing out suddenly,

had made an unexpected attack, must have occasioned

the most terrible havoc and dismay. Hannibal com­

manded the troops to halt, and having discovered from

some Gauls whom he sent forward to examine the

