LIVY.

sight of each other, when they should meet. Depend­

ing on this, as a covering to the design, when the sun

was but just risen, and the light which he did afford

was obscured by the fog, the Samnites came up to an

advanced guard of the Romans at one of the gates,

who were standing carelessly on their post. In the

f udden surprise, these had neither courage nor strength

to make resistance : an assault was then made, through

the Decuman gate, in the rear of the camp: the ques-

tor's quarters in consequence fell into the hands of the

enemy, and the questor, Lucius Opimius Pansa, was

there slain, on which a general alarm was given.

33. The consul, being roused by the tumult, ordered

two cohorts of the allies, a Lucanian and Suessanian,

which happened to be nearest, to defend the head­

quarters, and led the companies of the legions down

the principal street. These ran into the ranks, scarcely

taking time to furnish themselves with arms ; and, as

they distinguished the enemy by their shout rather

than by sight, could form no judgment how great their

number might be : thus, ignorant of the circumstances

of their situation, they at first drew back, and suffered

them to penetrate into the heart of the camp. The

consul asking them aloud, whether they intended to

let themselves be beaten out beyond the rampart, and

then to return again to storm their own camp, they

raised the shout, and, uniting their efforts, stood their

ground ; then made advances, pushed closely on the

enemy, and, having forced them to give way, drove

them back, without suffering their first terror to abate.

They soon beat them out beyond the gate and the ram­

part, but not daring to pursue them, because the dark­

ness of the weather made them apprehend an ambush,

and content with having cleared the camp, they retired

within the rampart, having killed about three hundred

of the enemy. Of the Romans, including the first ad­

vanced guard and the watchmen, and those who were

surprised at the questor's quarters, two hundred and

thirty perished. This not unsuocessful'piece of bold­

ness raised the spirits of the Samnites so high, that

