102 LIVY.

there Nerulum was surprised and stormed by the con足

sul jEmilius. When fame trad spread abroad among

the allies how firmly the affairs of Capua were settled

by the introduction of the Roman institutions, the An-

tians, imitating the example, presented a complaint of

their being without laws and without magistrates; on

which the patrons of the colony itself were appointed

by the senate to form a body of laws for it. Thus not

only the arms, but the laws of Rome widely extended

their sway.

21. The consuls, Caius Junius Bubulcus and Quin-

tus jEmilius Barbula, at the conclusion of the year

delivered over the legions, not to the consuls elected

by themselves, who were Spurius Nautius and Mar足

cus Popillius, but to a dictator, Lucius /Emilius.

[A.U.C. 438. B.C. 314.] He, with Lucius Fulvius,

master of the horse, laying siege to Saticula, gave oc足

casion to the Samnites of reviving hostilities, and this

produced a twofold alarm to-the Roman army. On

one side, the Samnites having collected a numerous

force with intent to relieve their allies from the siege,

pitched their camp at a small distance from that of the

Romans: on the other side the Saticulans, opening

suddenly their gates, ran up with violent tumult to

their posts. Afterwards each party, relying on sup足

port from the other more than on its own strength,

formed a regular attack, and pressed on the Romans.

The dictator, on his part, though obliged to oppose

two enemies at once, yet had his line secure on both

sides; for he chose a position in which he could not

easily be surrounded, and also formed two different

fronts. However, he directed his first efforts against

those who bad sallied from the town, and, without

meeting much resistance, drove them back within the

walls. He then turned his whole force against the

Samnites: there he found greater difficulty. But the

victory, though long delayed, was neither doubtful nor

alloyed by losses. The Samnites, being forced to fly

into their camp, extinguished their fires at night, and

marched away in silenoe ; and renouncing all hopes of

