HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK X. 163

haste, and ordered them to march at a slower rate.

On the other side, the Etrurians, putting themselves

in motion on the first beginning of the fray, had come

up with their whole force ; and several expresses came

to the dictator, one after another, that all the legions

of the Etrurians had joined in the fight, and that his

men could not any longer withstand them: at the same

time he himself saw from the higher ground the peril­

ous situation of the party. Confident, however, that

the lieutenant-general was able, even yet, to support

the dispute, and considering that he himself was at

hand to rescue him from defeat, he wished to let the

enemy be fatigued as much as might be, in order that

when in that state he might fall on them with his fresh

troops. Slowly as these marched, the distance was

now just sufficient for the cavalry to begin their career

for a charge. The battalions of the legions marched

in front, lest the enemy might suspect any secret or

sudden movement, but intervals had been left in the

ranks of the infantry, affording room for the horses

to gallop through. At the same instant the line

raised the shout, and the cavalry, charging at full

speed, poured on the enemy, and spread at once a ge­

neral panic. After this, as succor had arrived, almost

too late, to the 1party surrounded, so now they were

allowed intire rest, the fresh troops taking on them­

selves the whole business of the fight. Nor was that

either long or dubious. The enemy were routed, and

fled to their camp, which the Romans advancing to

attack, they crowded altogether in the remotest part

of it. Their flight being obstructed by the narrowness

of the gates, the greater number climbed up on the

mounds and ramparts, to try if they could either de­

fend themselves with the aid of the advantageous

ground, or get over by any means and escape. One

part of the rampart, happening to be badly compacted,

sunk under the weight of the multitude who stood on

it, and fell into the trench. On which, crying out

that the gods had opened that pass to give them safety,

they made their way out, most of them leaving their

