114 LIVV.

consul Caius Junius, but by which of them is uncertain.

Those who attribute to the consul the honor of taking

Nola add, that he also took Antina and Calatia, and

that Petilius was created dictator in consequence of a

pestilence breaking out, merely for the purpose of

driving the nail. The colonies of Suessa and Pontie

were established in this year. Suessa had been the

property of the Auruncians: the Volscians had occu­

pied Pontics, an island lying within sight of their shore.

A decree of the senate was also passed for conducting

colonies to Interamna and Cassinum. [A. U. C. 442.

B. C. 310.] But the commissioners were appointed,

and the colonists, to the number of four thousand, sent

by the succeeding consuls, Marcus Valerius and Pub-

lius Decius.

29. The Samnites were now nearly disabled from

continuing the war; but, before the Roman senate was

freed from all concern on that side, a report arose of

the Etrurians intending to commence hostilities; and

there was not in those times any nation, excepting the

Gauls, whose arms were more dreaded, by reason both

of the vicinity of their country, and of the multitude

of their men. While therefore one of the consuls pro­

secuted the remains of the war in Samnium, Publius

Decius, who, being attacked by a severe illness, re­

mained at Rome, by direction of the senate, nominated

Cains Junius Bubulcus dictator. He, as the magni­

tude of the affair demanded, compelled all the younger

citizens to enlist, and with the utmost diligence pre­

pared all requisite matters. Yet he was not so elated

by the power he had collected, as to think of com­

mencing offensive operations, but prudently determined

to remain quiet, unless the Etrurians should become

aggressors. The plans of the Etrurians were exactly

similar with respect to preparing for, and abstaining

from, war: neither party went beyond their own fron­

tiers. The censorship of Appius Claudius and Caius

Plautius for this year was remarkable ; but the name

of Appius has been handed down with more celebrity

to posterity on account of his having made the road

