HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK X. . 167

pected attack, determined on a regular engagement.

They therefore marched out into the plain ; and, with

a greater share of spirit than of hopes, committed them­

selves to the disposal of fortune. However, whether

in consequence of their having drawn together, from

every state, the whole of the force which it possessed,

or that the consideration of their all being at stake

heightened their courage, they maintained, even in

open fight, a formidable struggle. Fabius, when he

saw that the enemy in no place gave way, ordered his

son Maximus and Marcus Valerius, military tribunes,

with whom he hastened to the front, to seek the cavalry,

and to exhort them, that ' if they remembered any in­

stance wherein the public had received advantage from

the service of the horsemen they would on that day

exert themselves to preserve inviolate the renown of

that body ; telling them that the enemy stood immova­

ble against the efforts of the infantry, and the only

hope remaining was in the charge of horse.' He ad­

dressed particularly both these youths, and with the

same cordiality, loading them with praises and pro­

mises. At the same time, considering that in case that

effort should a1so fail, it would be necessary to accom­

plish by stratagem what his strength could not effect,

he ordered Scipio, one of his lieutenants-general, to

draw off the spearmen of the first legion out of the

line; to lead them round as secretly as possible to the

nearest mountains ; and, in such direction as he could

ascend without being seen, to gain the heights, and

show himself suddenly on the rear of the enemy, while

their attention should be employed on the front. The

cavalry, led on by the tribunes, rushing forward unex­

pectedly before the van, caused scarcely more confusion

among the enemy than among their friends. The line

of the Samnites stood firm against the furious onset of

the squadrons ; it neither could be driven from its

ground, nor broken in any part. The cavalry, finding

their attempts fruitless, withdrew from the fight, and

retired behind the line of infantry. On this the enemy

assumed new spirits, with increasing confidence in their

