HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK VIII. 47

carrying strong proofs of the ill treatment, none of

artifice, the people were so irritated that by their

clamors they compelled the magistrates to call toge­

ther the senate; and whilst some stood round that as­

sembly, insisting on a declaration of war against the

Romans, others ran different ways to rouse to arms

the multitude residing in the country. Thus the minds

even of rational men being hurried into imprudence by

the general uproar, a decree was passed that the alli­

ance with the Samnites should be renewed, and ambas­

sadors sent for that purpose. This hasty proceeding

surprised the Samnites, who however insisted that they

should not only give hostages, but also receive garri­

sons into their fortified places ; and they, blinded by

resentment, refused no terms. In a little time after,

on the authors of the imposition removing to Taren-

tum, the whole came to light. But as they had given

all power out of their own hands, nothing was left

them but unavailing repentance.

28. This year proved as it were a new era of liberty

to the Roman commons ; a stop being put to the prac­

tice of confining debtors. This alteration1 of the law

was effected in consequence of the behavior of a usurer,

in which lust and cruelty were equally conspicuous.

His name was Lucius Papirius. To him one Caius

Publilius having surrendered his person to be confined

for a debt due by his father, his youth and beauty,

which ought to have excited commiseration, operated

on the other's mind as incentives to barbarity. He

first attempted to seduce the young man by impure

discourses; but finding that his ears were shocked

at their infamous tendency, he then endeavored to

terrify him by threats, and reminded him frequently of

his situation. At last, convinced of his resolution to

act conformably to his honorable birth, rather than to

his present condition, he ordered him to be stripped

and scourged. With the marks of the rods imprinted

in his flesh the youth rushed out into the public street,

uttering loud complaints of the depravedness and in­

humanity of the usurer. On which a vast number of

