HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXI. 245

who were to defend it, then Hannibal, seizing the op­

portunity, sent about five hundred Africans, with pick­

axes, to undermine the wall at the bottom ; which was

not a difficult work, because the cement was not strength­

ened with lime, but the interstices filled up with clay,

according to the ancient method of building: other

parts of it therefore fell down, together with those to

which the strokes were applied, and through these

breaches several bands of soldiers made their way into

the city. They likewise there took possession of an

eminence, and collecting thither a number of engines

for throwing darts and stones, surrounded it with a

wall, in order that they might have a fortress within

the city itself, a citadel, as it were, to command it.

The Saguntines on their part raised an inner wall be­

tween that and the division of the city not yet taken.

Both sides exerted themselves to the utmost, as well in

forming their works as in fighting. But the Saguntines,

while they raised defences for the inner parts, con­

tracted daily the dimensions of the city. At the same

time the scarcity of all things increased, in consequence

of the long continuance of the siege, while their ex­

pectations of foreign aid diminished ; the Romans, their

only hope, being at so great a distance, and all the

countries round being in the hands of the enemy.

However, their sinking spirits were for a short time

revived by Hannibal setting out suddenly on an expe­

dition against the Oretans and Carpetans: for these

two nations, being exasperated by the severity used in

levying soldiers, had, by detaining the commissaries,

afforded room to apprehend a revolt; but receiving an

unexpected check, from the quick exertions of Hanni­

bal, they laid aside the design of insurrection.

12. In the mean time the vigor of the proceedings

against Saguntum was not lessened ; Maharbal, son of

Himilco, whom Hannibal had left in the command,

pushing forward the operations with such activity, that

neither his countrymen nor the enemy perceived that

the general was absent. He not only engaged the Sa­

guntines several times with success, but, with three

