190 LIVY.

in the war in Samnium, under the proconsul Lucius

Volumnius. The first encounter was supported, with

strength so equal on both sides, that had the Etrurians

and Umbrians been present at the action, either in the

field or at the camp, in whichever place they might

have employed their force, the Romans must have been

defeated.

28. However, although the victory was still unde­

cided, Fortune not having declared in favor of either

party, yet the course of the fight was by no means

similar on both right and left wings. The Romans,

under Fabius, rather repelled than offered assault; and

the contest was protracted until very late in the day;

for their general knew very well that both Samnites

and Gauls were furious in the first onset; so that, to

prevent their progress, was as much as could well be

effected. It was known, too, that in a longer dispute

the spirits of the Samnites gradually flagged, and even

the bodies of the Gauls, remarkably ill able to bear

labor and heat, became quite relaxed; and although in

their first efforts they were more than men, yet in their-

last they were less than women. He therefore re­

served the strength of his men, for the aforesaid rea­

sons, until the time when the enemy were the more

likely to be worsted. Decius, more impetuous, as

being in the prime of life and full flow of spirits, ex­

erted his whole force to the utmost in the first encoun-«

ter; and thinking the infantry not sufficiently power­

ful, brought up the cavalry to their aid. Putting him­

self at the head of a troop of young horsemen of distin­

guished bravery, he besought those youths, the flower

of the army, to follow him, and charge the enemy :

telling them ' they would reap a double share of glory

if the victory should commence on the left wing, and

through their means.' Twice they compelled the Gal­

lic cavalry to give way. At the second charge they

advanced nearer, and were briskly engaged in the

midst of the enemy's squadrons, when, by a method of

fighting to which they were utter strangers, they were

throwp into dismay. A number of the enemy, mounted

