HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK IX. 143

that it was be, who, being sent to command Minucius'

army, took Bovianum. During the same year Sara,

Arpinum, and Censennia were recovered from the Sam-

nites. The statue of Hercules the great was erected in

the capitol, and dedicated.

45. In the succeeding consulate of Publius Sulpicius

Saverrio and Publius Sempronius Sophus, [A. U. C.

449. B. C. 303] the Samnites, desirous either of a

termination or a cessation of hostilities, sent ambassa­

dors to Rome to treat of peace; to whose submissive

solicitations this answer was returned, that, ' had not

the Samnites frequently solicited peace, at times when

they were actually preparing for war, their present ap­

plication might, perhaps, in the course of negotiating,

have produced the desired effect. But now, since words

had bitherto proved vain, people's conduct might be

guided by facts: that Publius Sempronius the consul

would shortly be in Samnium with an army: that he

could not be deceived in judging whether their disposi­

tions inclined to peace or war. He would bring the

senate certain information respecting every particular,

and their ambassadors might follow the consul on his

return from Samnium.' The Roman accordingly

marched through all parts of Samnium, found every

thing in a state of peace, and was liberally supplied

with provisions; on which, a renewal of the old treaty

was this year granted to the Samnites. The Roman

arms were then turned against the jEquans, their old

enemies, but who bad, for many years past, remained

quiet, under a fallacious appearance of friendship. The

reason of making war on them was, that while the Her-

nicians were in a state of prosperity, these had, in con­

junction with them, frequently sent aid to the Sam-

nites; and after the Hernicians were subdued, almost

the whole nation, without dissembling that they acted

by public authority, had revolted to the enemy; and

when, after the conclusion of the treaty with the Sam­

nites at Rome, ambassadors were sent to demand satis­

faction, they said that ' this was only a trial made of

them, on the expectation that they would through fear

