LIVY.

disdain to admit us into the number of priests. We

bring with us numerous honors; all those honors in­

deed which have rendered your party so proud. Lu­

cius Sextius was the first consul chosen out of the

plebeians; Caius Licinius Stolo the first master of the

horse; Caius Marcius Rutilus the first dictator, and

likewise censor ; Quintus Publilius Philo the first pre-

tor. On every one of these occasions was heard a re­

petition of the same arguments: that the right of aus­

pices was vested in you ; that you alone had the rights

of ancestry ; that you alone were legally intitled to the

supreme command, and the auspices both in peace and

war. The supreme command has hitherto been, and

will continue to be, equally prosperous in plebeian

hands as in patrician. Have you never heard it said

that the first created patricians were not men sent down

from heaven, but such as could cite their fathers, that

is, nothing more than free born. I can now cite my

father, a consul; and my son will be able to cite a

grandfather. Citizens, their opposition means nothing

else than that we should never obtain any thing with­

out a previous refusal. The patricians wish only for a

dispute; nor do they care what issue their disputes

may have. For my part, be it advantageous, happy,

and prosperous to you and to the commonwealth, lam

df opinion that this law should receive your sanction.'

9. The people ordered that the tribes should be in­

stantly called; and there was every appearance that

the law would be accepted. It was deferred however

for that day by a protest, from which on the day fol­

lowing the tribunes were deterred; and it passed with

the approbation of a vast majority. The pontiffs created

were Publius Decius Mus, the advocate for the law ;

Publius Sempronius Sophus, Caius Marcius Rutilus,

and Marcus Livius Deuter. The five augurs, who

were also plebeians, were, Caius Genucius, Publius

jElius Paetus, Marcus Minucius Fessus, Caius Mar­

cius, and Titus Publilius. Thus the number of the

pontiffs was made eight; that of the augurs nine. In

the same year Marcus Valerius, consul, procured a

I

