302 LIVY.

Hannibal being wounded, and retiring from the fight,

his men became dispirited ; and the defence of the

fortress was effectually maintained. After this, taking

but a few days to rest, and scarcely allowing time for

his wound to be thoroughly healed, he set out to lay

siege to Victumviae. This had been fortified by the

Romans for a magazine in the time of the Gallic war.

Afterwards numbers of people, from all the neighbor­

ing states, fixing their residence round it, made it a

populous place; and, at this juncture, fear of the ene­

my's depredations had driven into it the greater part

of the country people. The multitude thus composed,

being excited to a warmth of courage by the report of

the gallant defence made by the garrison near Placen-

tia, snatched up arms, and marched out to meet Han­

nibal. The parties engaged on the road, in the order

of march rather than of battle; and as there was on

one side nothing more than a disorderly crowd, on the

other a leader confident of his soldiers, and a soldiery

confident of their leader, a number not less than thirty-

five thousand was routed by a small party. Next day

they capitulated, and received a garrison within their

walls. They were then ordered to deliver up their

arms, with which they had no sooner complied than a

signal was suddenly given to the conquerors to sack

the city, as if taken by storm. Nor have writers,

in cases of the like nature, mentioned any one cala­

mity which was not suffered on this occasion: every

outrage which lust, cruelty, and inhuman insolence

could dictate, being practised on those wretched peo­

ple. Such were Hannibal's enterprises during the

winter.

58. After this he gave rest to his troops, but not for

any great length of time, only while the cold was into­

lerable. On the first and even uncertain appearances

of spring, he left his winter quarters, and marched

towards Etruria ; determined, either by force or per­

suasion, to prevail on that nation to join him, as he

had already managed the Gauls and Ligurians. As he

