138 LIVY.

which conduct he inspired his soldiers with ardor to

meet both toil and danger. Quintus Fabius, procon足

sul, fought a pitched battle with the armies of the

Samnites, near the city of Allifae. The victory was

complete. The enemy were driven from the field, and

pursued to their camp; nor would they have kept

possession of that had not the day been almost spent.

It was invested however before night, and guarded

until day, lest any should slip away. Next morning,

while it was scarcely clear day, they proposed to capi足

tulate, and it was agreed that such as were natives of

Samnium should be dismissed with single garments.

AH those were sent under the yoke. No precaution

was taken in favor of the allies of the Samnites : they

were sold by auction, to the number of seven thousand.

Those who declared themselves subjects of the Herni-

cians were kept by themselves under a guard. All

these Fabius sent to Rome to the senate; and, after

being examined, whether it was in consequence of a

public order, or as volunteers, that they had carried

arms on the side of the Samnites against the Romans,

they were distributed among the states of the Latines

to be held in custody ; and it was ordered that the new

consuls, Publius Cornelius Arvina and Quintus Mar-

cius Tremulus, who by this time had been elected,

should lay that affair intire before the senate [A.U.C.

447. B.C. 305] : this gave such offence to the Hernici-

ans that, at a meeting of all the states, assembled by

the Anagnians in the circus called the Maritime, the

whole nation of the Hernicians, excepting the Alatri-

ans, Ferentines, and Verulans, declared war against

the Roman people.

43. In Samnium also, in consequence of the depar足

ture of Fabius, new commotions arose. Calatia and

Sora, and the Roman garrisons stationed there, were

taken, and the prisoners treated with extreme cruelty :

Bublius Cornelius was therefore sent thither with an

army. The command against the new enemy (for by

this time an order had passed for declaring war against

the Anagnians and the rest of the Hernicians) was de足

