HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK X. 17.'»

born men, and the younger sort were obliged to enlist,

but cohorts were formed of the elder citizens, and the

sons of freedmen were incorporated in the centuries.

Plans were formed for the defence of the city, and the

chief command committed to the pretor, Publius Sem-

pronius. However, the senate was exonerated of one

half of their anxiety, by a letter from the consul, Lu­

cius Volumnius, informing them that the army, which

had ravaged Campania, had been defeated and dis­

persed : whereon they decreed a public thanksgiving

for this success, in the name of the victors. The courts

were opened, after having been shut eighteen days, and

the thanksgiving was performed with much joy. They

then turned their thoughts to devising measures for the

future security of the country depopulated by the Sam-

nites; and, with this view, resolved that two colonies

should be settled on the frontiers of the Vescian and

Falernian territories; one at the mouth of the river

Liris, which has received the name of Minturnae; the

other in the Vescian forest, which borders on the Fa­

lernian territory; where, it is said, stood Sinope, a

city of Grecians, called thenceforth by the Roman colo­

nists Sinuessa. The plebeian tribunes were charged

to procure an order of the commons, enjoining Publius

Sempronius, the pretor, to create triumvirs for con­

ducting the colonies to those places. But it was not

easy to find people to give in their names; because a

settlement in those places was considered, nearly, as a

perpetual advanced guard in a hostile country, not as

a provision of land. From these employments the at­

tention of the senate was drawn away by the Etrurian

war growing daily more formidable; and by frequent

letters from AppiUs, warning them not to neglect the

disturbances in that quarter. Four nations, he told them,

were uniting their arms; the Etrurians, the Samnites,

the Umbrians, and the Gauls; and they had already

formed two separate camps, one spot being insufficient

to contain so great a multitude. In consequence, the

time of the elections drawing nigh, the consul, Lucius

Volumnitis, was recalled to Rome to hold them. Hav­

