250 LI VY.

the affair was really a tumult, rather than a war. The

Carthaginians, another kind of foe, were crossing the

Iberus ; trained to arms during twenty-three years, in

the most laborious service, among the nations of Spain ;

accustomed to conquer on every occasion ; habituated

to the command of a most able general; flushed with

their late conquest of a very opulent city, and bringing

with them many Spanish states; while the Gauls, ever

glad of an opportunity of fighting, would doubtless be

engaged in the expedition. War must then be waged

against all the world, in the heart of Italy, and under

the walls of Rome.

17. The provinces had been already named for the

consuls, but now they were ordered to cast lots. Spain

fell to Cornelius; Africa, with Sicily, to Sempronius.

For the service of the year six legions were decreed,

with such a number of the troops of the allies as the

consuls should deem requisite, and a fleet as great as

could be fitted out. Of Romans were enlisted twenty-

four thousand foot, and one thousand eight hundred

horse; of the allies, forty thousand foot, and four thou­

sand four hundred horse. The fleet consisted of two hun­

dred and twenty ships of five banks of oars, and twenty

light galleys. The question was then proposed to the

people, whether ' they chose and ordered that war

should be declared against the people of Carthage V

This being determined on, a general supplication was

performed in the city, and prayers offered to the gods,

that the war which the Roman people had ordered

might have a prosperous and a happy issue. The forces

were divided between the consuls in this manner: to

Sempronius were assigned two legions, containing each

four thousand foot and three hundred horse, and of the

allies sixteen thousand foot and one thousand eight

hundred horse, with one hundred and sixty ships of

war, and twelve light galleys. With these land and

sea forces Tiberius Sempronius was sent to Sicily, with

intention that he should cross, over to Africa, in case

the other consul should be able to prevent the Cartha­

ginians from entering Italy. The army assigned to

