HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK VIII. 13

by your escaping with impunity, be annulled for ever,

I expect that even you yourself, if you have any of

our blood in you, will not refuse to restore by your

punishment that military discipline which has been

subverted by your fault. Go, lictor: bind him to the

stake.' Shocked to the last degree at such a cruel or­

der, each looking on the axe as if drawn against him­

self, all were quiet, through fear, rather than disci­

pline. They stood therefore for some time motionless

and silent; but when the blood spouted from his se­

vered neck, then their minds emerging, as it were,

from the stupefaction in which they had been plunged,

they all at once united their voices in free expressions

of compassion, refraining not either from lamentations

or execrations; and covering the body of the youth

with the spoils, they burned it on a pile, erected with­

out the rampart, with every honor which the warm

zeal of the soldiers could bestow on a funeral. From

thence ' Manlian orders' were not only then considered

with horror, but have been transmitted as a model of

austerity to future times. The harshness of this pu­

nishment however rendered the soldiery more obedient

to their commander; while the guards and watches,

and the regulation of the several posts, were hence­

forth attended to with greater diligence : this severity

was also found useful, when the troops, for the final

decision, went into the field of battle.

8. A battle between these two nations much re­

sembled that of a civil war; for except in point of

courage, there was a perfect similarity between the

Latines and Romans in every particular. The Romans

formerly made use of targets; afterwards, when they

came to receive pay, they made shields for themselves,

instead of the targets ; and their army, which before was

composed of phalanxes, like those of the Macedonians,

began to be formed in a line of distinct companies. At

length a farther division was made of these into cen­

turies ; each century containing sixty-two soldiers,

one centurion, and a standard-bearer. The spearmen

formed the first line in ten companies, with small in*

