HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK X. 195

consuls ; and it is mentioned that Volumnius was em­

ployed at the time in Samnium ; that he compelled the

army of the Samnites to retreat to Mount Tifernus,

and not retarded by the difficulty of the ground routed

and dispersed them. Quintus Fabius, leaving Decius'

army in Etruria, and leading off his own legions to the

city, triumphed over the Gauls, Etrurians, and Sam­

nites, the soldiers attending his triumph. These, in

their coarse military verses, celebrated not more

highly the conduct of Quintus Fabius, than the illus­

trious death of Publius Decius ; recalling to memory

his self-immolated father, of whom the son might be

considered as a glorious counterpart, in respect of the

issue which resulted both to himself and to the public.

Out of the spoil donations were made to the soldiers

of eighty-two asses1 to each, with cloaks and vests;

rewards for service, which in that age were far from

contemptible.

31. Notwithstanding these successes, peace was not

yet established, either among the Samnites or Etru­

rians : for the latter, at the instigation of the Peru-

sians, resumed their arms as soon as the consul had

withdrawn his troops ; and the Samnites made preda­

tory incursions on the territories of Vescia and For-

miaj; and also on the other side, on those of jEsernia,

and the parts adjacent to the river Vulturnus. Against

these was sent the pretor Appius Claudius, with the

army formerly commanded by Decius. In Etruria,

Fabius, on the revival of hostilities, slew four thou­

sand five hundred of the Perusiaus, and took prisoners

one thousand seven hundred and forty, who were ran­

somed at the rate of three hundred and ten asses3 each.

All the rest of the spoil was bestowed on the soldiers.

The legions of the Samnites, though pursued, some by

the pretor Appius Claudius, the others by Lucius Vo­

lumnius, proconsul, formed a junction in the country

of the Stellatians. Here sat down, on one side, the

whole body of the Samnites ; and on the other, Ap-

1 5». S}d.

* U.

