194 LIVY.

on the rear, and overpowered. There were slain of

the enemy on that day twenty-five thousand ; eight

thousand were taken prisoners. Nor was the victory

gained without loss of blood ; for of the army of Pub-

lius Decius, the killed amounted to seven thousand ;

of the army of Fabius, to one thousand two hundred.

Fabius, after sending persons to search for the body of

his colleague, bad the spoils of the enemy collected

into a heap, and burned them as an offering to Jupiter

the Victorious. The consul's body could not be found

that day, being hid under a heap of slaughtered Gauls :

on the following it was discovered and brought to the

ramp, amidst abundance of tears shed by the soldiers.

Fabius, discarding all concern about any other busi足

ness, solemnised the obsequies of his colleague in the

most honorable manner, passing on him the high encoT

miums which be had justly merited.

30. During the same period, Cneius Fulvius, pro-

pretor, made a progress in Etruria equal to his wishes ;

having, besides the immense losses occasioned to the

enemy by the devastation of their lands, fought a

battle with extraordinary success, in which there were

above three thousand of the Perusians and Clusians

slain, and twenty military standards taken. The Sam-

nites in their flight passing through the Pelignian ter足

ritory, were attacked on all sides by the Pelignians;

and out of five thousand, one thousand were killed.

The glory pf the day in the affair at Sentinum was

great, when represented with a strict adherence to

truth : but some have carried their exaggerations of it

beyond the bounds of credibility, asserting in their

writings that there were in the army of the enemy

forty thousand three hundred and thirty foot, six

thousand horse, and one thousand chariots; that is, in足

cluding the Etrurians and Umbrians, who they affirm

were present in the engagement; and to magnify like足

wise the number of Roman forces, they add to the

consuls another general, Lucius Volumnius, proconsul,

and his army to their legions. In the greater number

of annals that victory is ascribed intirely to the two

