86 LIVY.

of consular dignity should not be ashamed to exhibit

such mockery of religion in the face of day! and

should have recourse to such shallow artifices to pal­

liate their breach of faith, as not even children would

allow themselves ! Go, lictor, take off the bonds from

those Romans. Let no one hinder them to depart

when they think proper.' Accordingly they returned

unhurt from Caudium to the Roman camp, having ac­

quitted certainly their own faith, and perhaps that of

the public. "

12. The Samnites finding that instead of peace which

flattered their pride, the war was revived, and with

the utmost inveteracy, not only felt in their minds a

foreboding of all the consequences which ensued, but

saw them in a manner before their eyes. They now,

too late, and in vain, applauded the plans of old Pon­

tius, by blundering between which they had exchanged

a certainty of victory for an uncertain peace ; and

were now to fight against men, whom they might have

either put out of the way for ever as enemies, or en­

gaged for ever as friends. And such was the change

which had taken place in men's minds, since the Cau-

dine peace, even before any trial of strength had shown

an advantage on either side, that Postumius, by sur­

rendering himself, had acquired greater renown among

the Romans than Pontius among the Samnites by his

bloodless victory. The Romans considered their being

at liberty to make war as certain victory; while the

Samnites supposed the Romans victorious the moment

they resumed their arms. Meanwhile, the Satricans

revolted to the Samnites, who attacked the colony of

Fregellae, by a sudden surprise in the night, accom­

panied, as it appears, by the Satricans. From that

time until day their mutual fears kept both parties

quiet: the daylight was the signal for battle, which

the Fregellans contrived to maintain for a considerable

time without loss of ground ; for they fought for their

religion and liberty ; and the multitude who were unfit

to bear arms assisted them from the tops of the

houses. At length, a stratagem gave the advantage to

