HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK IX. 123

resigned their office ? Why should I bring instances

from antiquity? Lately, within these last ten years,

Caius Maenius, dictator, having enforced inquiries,

with more strictness than consisted with the safety of

some powerful men, a charge was thrown out by his

enemies, that he himself was infected with the very

crime against which his inquiries were directed ;—now

Maenius, I say, in order that he might in a private ca­

pacity meet the imputation, abdicated the dictatorship.

I expect not such moderation in you ; you will not de­

generate from your family, of all others the most im­

perious and assuming ; nor resign your office a day, or

even an hour before you are forced to it. Be it so:

but then let no one exceed the time limited. It is

enough to add a day, or a month to the censorship.

But Appius says, I will hold the censorship, and hold

it alone three years anS six months longer than is al­

lowed by the jEmilian law. Surely this is like ab­

solute power. Or will you fill up the vacancy with

another colleague, a proceeding not allowable, even

in the case of the death of a censor? You are not

satisfied with having, as if you were a religious censor,

hindered the most ancient solemnity, and the only one

instituted by the very deity, to whom it is performed,

from being attended by priests of the highest rank, but

degraded it to the ministration of servants. You are

Dot satisfied that a family, more ancient than the origin

of this city, and sanctified by an intercourse of hospi­

tality with the immortal gods, has, by means of you

and your censorship, been utterly extirpated, with all

its branches, within the space of a year, but would in­

volve the whole commonwealth in guilt so horrid that

I dread even-to ' mention it. This city was taken in

that lustrum in which Caius Julius and Lucius Papi-

rius were censors. On the death of Julius, Papirius,

rather than resign his office, substituted Marcus Cor­

nelius Maluginensis as his colleague. Yet how much

more moderate was his ambition, Appius, than yours?

Lucius Papirius neither held the censorship alone, nor

beyond the time prescribed by law. But still no one

