HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK IX. Ill

pulsed, (so fully were they persuaded that every other

measure was safer than the attempt to clear them­

selves,) have made an attack, on us ; and, though in

private characters have not been restrained by a sense

of decency from instituting a criminal process-against

a dictator. Now, that gods and men may perceive

that they, to avoid a scrutiny as to their own conduct,

attempt even impossibilities, and that I willingly

meet the charge, and face the accusations of my ene­

mies, I divest myself of the dictatorship. And, con­

suls, I beseech you, that if this business is put into

your hands by the senate, you will make me and

Marcus Foslius the first objects of your examinations ;

it shall be manifested that we owe our safety from such

imputations to our own innocence, not to the dignity

of office.' He then abdicated the dictatorship, as did

Marcus Foslius immediately after his office of master

of the horse ; and being the first brought to trial be­

fore the consuls, for to them the senate had com­

mitted the business, they were most honorably ac­

quitted of all the charges brought by the nobles. Even

Publilius Philo, who had so often been invested with

the highest honors, and had performed so many emi­

nent services, both at home and abroad, being disa­

greeable to the nobility, was brought to trial, and ac­

quitted. Nor did the inquiry continue respectable on

account of the illustrious names of the accused, longer

than while it was new, which is usually the case : it

then began to descend to persons of inferior rank ; and

at length was suppressed by means of those factions

and cabals against which it had been instituted.

27. The accounts received of these matters, but

more especially the hope of a revolt in Campania, for

which a conspiracy had been formed, recalled the

Samnites from their intended march towards Apulia

back to Caudium ; where, being near, they might, if

any commotion should open them an opportunity,

snatch Capua out of the hands of the Romans. To the

same place the consuls repaired with a powerful army.

They both held back for some time, on the different

