LIVY.

leaders of the Barcine faction, charging them to pre­

pare their friends to act with spirit, so that the other

party should not be able to carry any point in favor of

the Romans. Thus the embassy there proved equally

vain and fruitless, excepting that the ambassadors were

received and admitted to audience. Hanno alone, in

opposition to the sentiments of the senate, argued for

their complying with the terms of the treaty, and was

heard with great attention, rather out of the respect

paid to the dignity of his character, than from the ap­

probation of the hearers. He said that ' he had for­

merly charged and forewarned them, as they regarded

the gods, who were guarantees and witnesses of the

treaties, not to send the son of Hamilcar to the army.

That man's shade,' said he, ' cannot be quiet, nor any

one descended from him; nor will treaties with Rome

subsist as long as one person of the Barcine blood and

name exists. As if with intent to supply fuel to fire,

you sent to your armies a young man, burning with am­

bition for absolute power, to which he could see but

one road, the exciting of wars, one after another, in

order that he might live surrounded with arms and le­

gions. You yourselves therefore have kindled this fire

with which you are now scorched : your armies now in­

vest Saguntum, a place which they are bound by treaty

not to molest. In a short time the Roman legions will

invest Carthage, under the guidance of those same dei­

ties who enabled them in the former war to take ven­

geance for the breach of treaties. Are you strangers

to that enemy, or to yourselves, or to the fortune at­

tending both nations ? When ambassadors came from

allies, in favor of allies, your worthy general, disre­

garding the law of nations, refused them admittance

into his camp. Nevertheless, after meeting a repulse,

where ambassadors, even from enemies, are not refused

access, they have come to you, requiring satisfaction in

conformity to treaty. They charge no crime on the

public, but demand the author of the transgression, the

person answerable for the offence. The more modera­

tion there appears in their proceedings, and the slower

