HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK VIII. 23

the senate should, previous to the taking of the suf­

frages, declare their approbation of all laws which

should be passed in the assemblies of the centuries ;

the third, that one of the censors should, necessarily,

be elected out of the commons, as it had been already

established that both the consuls might be plebeians.

In the judgment of the patricians, the detriment sus­

tained that year, at home, from the behavior of the

consuls and dictator, was more than a counterbalance

to the increase of empire through their conduct and

successes in war.

13. At the commencement of the nextyear, [A.U.C.

417. B.C. 335] in which Lucius Furius Camillus and

Caius Maenius were consuls, the senate, in order to

render more conspicuous the conduct of jEmilius, in

relinquishing the business of the campaign, warmly

urged that men, arms, and every kind of force, should

be employed to take Pedum, and demolish it. The

new consuls were of course obliged to postpone every

other business, and to set out thither. In Latium the

state of affairs was such that the people could ill en­

dure either war or peace ; their strength was not

equal to the support of a war, and peace they dis­

dained on the humiliating terms of losing their lands.

They resolved therefore to steer a middle course ; to

keep within the walls of their towns, so that no pro­

vocation should be offered to the Romans which might

serve them as a pretext for hostilities ; and in case

they should hear of siege being laid to any of their

possessions, then, that every one of the estates should

be obliged to bring succor .to the besieged. Pedum

however received aid from few ; the Tiburtians and

Praenestians, whose territories lay nearest, arrived

there: but the Aricians, Lavinians, and Veliternians,

while forming a junction with the Volscians of Anti-

um at the river Astura, were unexpectedly attacked

by Maenius, and routed. The Tiburtians, who were

much the strongest body, Camillus fought at Pedum ;

and, though he had greater difficulties to surmount,

yet the issue was equally successful. Some confusion

