72 LIVY.

of an oracle, his son, although, as well as others, per­

suaded that the powers of his father's mind, together

with those of his body, had been impaired by age, was

yet prevailed on, by the general desire of all, to send

for him and consult him in person. The old man, we

are told, complied without reluctance, and was carried

in a waggon to the camp, where, when he came to

speak, he made no alteration in the opinions which he

had given, only added the reasons on which he founded

them. That ' by his first plan, which he esteemed the

best, he meant, by an act of extraordinary kindness, to

establish perpetual peace a,nd friendship with a most

powerful nation: by the other, to put off the return of

war to the distance of many ages, during which the Ro­

man state, after the loss of those two armies, could not

easily recover its strength. A third plan there was

not.' His son and the other chiefs then asking him if

' a plan of a middle kind might not be adopted ; of dis­

missing them unhurt; and, at the same time, by the

right of war, imposing terms on them as vanquished?'

—' That, indeed,' said he, ' is a plan of such a nature,

as neither procures friends nor removes enemies. Only

consider who they are, whom you would irritate by

ignominious treatment. The Romans are a race who

know not how to sit down quiet under defeat; any

scar, which the present necessity shall imprint in their

breasts will rankle there for ever, and will not suffer

them to rest until they have wreaked manifold ven­

geance on your heads.' Neither of these plans was

approved, and Herennius was carried home.

4. In the other camp the Romans, having tried many

fruitless efforts to force a passage, and being now des­

titute of every means of subsistence, were reduced by

necessity to send ambassadors, who were first to ask

peace on equal terms; which, if they did not obtain,

they were to challenge the enemy to battle. To this

Pontius answered, that ' the war was at an end ; and

since, even in their present vanquished and captive

state, they were not willing to make acknowlegement

of their situation, he would send them under the yoke

