HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK IX. 141

Cornelius was left in Samnium. Marcius returned

into the city in triumph over the Hernicians; and a

decree was passed for erecting to him in the forum an

equestrian statue, which was placed before the temple

' of Castor. To three states of the Hernicians (the

Alatrians, Verulans, and Ferentines,) their own laws

were restored, because they preferred these to the

being made citizens of Rome ; and they were per­

mitted to intermarry with each other, a privilege

which they alone, of the Hernicians, for a long time

after, enjoyed. To the Anagnians and the others,

who had made war on the Romans, was granted the

freedom of the state, without the right of voting ; pub­

lic assemblies and intermarriages were not allowed

them, and their magistrates were prohibited from act­

ing except in the ministration of public worship. Du­

ring this year Cains Junius Bubulcus, censor, con­

tracted for the building of a temple to Health, which

he had vowed during his consulate in the war with the

Samnites. By the same person and his colleague,

Marcus Valerius Maximus, roads were made through

the fields at the public expense. During the same year

the treaty with the Carthaginians was renewed a third

time, and ample presents made to their ambassadors

who came on that business.

44. This year had a dictator in office, Publius Cor­

nelius Scipio, with Publius Decius Mus, master of the

horse. By these the election of consuls was held, being

the purpose for which they had been created, because

neither of the consuls could be absent from the armies.

The consuls elected were Lucius Postumius and Titus

Minucius [A.U.C. 448. B.C. 304] ; whom Piso places

next after Quintus Fabius and Publius Decius, omitting

the two years in which I have set down Claudius with

Volumnius, and Cornelius with Marcius, as consuls.

Whether this happened through a lapse of memory in

digesting his annals, or whether he purposely passed

over those two consulates as deeming the accounts of

them false, cannot be ascertained. During this year

the Samnites made incursions into the district of Stellae

