HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXI. 237

should see the troops advance into the water they

should fall on them: his infantry he formed on the

bank, with forty elephants in their front. The Carpe-

tans, with the addition of the Olcadians and Vaccaeans,

were one hundred thousand in number; an army not

to be overcome, if a fight were to take place in an open

plain. These being naturally of an impetuous temper,

and confiding in their numbers, believing also that the

enemy's retreat was owing to fear, and thinking that

there was no obstruction to their gaining an immediate

victory but the river lying in their way, they raised the

shout, and without orders rushed from all parts into it,

every one by the shortest way. At the same time a

vast body of cavalry pushed from the opposite bank

into the river, and the conflict began in the middle of

the channel, where they fought on very unequal terms:

for in such a situation the infantry, not being secure of

footing, and scarcely able to bear up against the stream,

were liable to be borne down by any shock from the

horse, though the rider were unarmed, and took no

trouble; whereas a horseman, having his limbs at li­

berty, and his horse moving steadily, even through the

midst of the eddies, could act either in close fight or at

a distance. Great numbers were swallowed up in the

current; while several, whom the eddies of the river

carried to the Carthaginians' side, were trodden to

death by the elephants. The hindmost, who could

more safely retreat to their own bank, attempting to

collect themselves into one body from the various parts

to which their terror and confusion had dispersed them,

Hannibal, not to give them time to recover from their

consternation, marched into the river with his infantry

in close order, and obliged them to fly from the bank.

Then, by ravaging their country, he reduced the Car-

petans also, in a few days, to submission. And now

all parts of the country beyond the Iberus, except the

territory of Saguntum, was under subjection to the

Carthaginians.

6. [A. U. C. 534. B. C. 218.] As yet there was no

war with the Saguntines; but disputes, which seemed

