HISTORY OF ROME. BOOK XXI. 2C5

they first began to be frightened when, the raft being

set loose, they were separated from the rest, and dragged

into the deep: then pressing close to one another, as

those on the outside drew back from the water, they

occasioned a good deal of disorder; but terrified by

seeing the water on every side of them, they soon be-

. came quiet. Some, indeed, becoming outrageous, tum­

bled into the river, but their own weight rendering

them steady, though their riders were thrown off, they

cautiously searched out the shallow parts, and came

safe to land.

29. While thus employed in transporting the ele­

phants, Hannibal had despatched five hundred Numi-

dian horsemen towards the camp of the Romans, to

discover where they lay, what were their numbers,

and, if possible, what their designs. This detachment

of cavalry was met by the three hundred Roman horse

sent, as mentioned above, from the mouth of the Rhone.

A battle ensued, more furious than common, between

such small numbers ; for, besides many wounds, there

was a great loss of lives, nearly equal on both sides,

and it was not until the Romans were thoroughly

fatigued that the dismay and flight of the Numidians

yielded them the victory. On the side of the conquerors

fell one hundred and sixty, not all Romans however,

some of them being Gauls ;' and of the vanquished more

than two hundred. As this prelude, and omen like­

wise of the war, portended to the Romans a favorable

issue on the whole, so did it a victory not unbloody,

nor to be purchased without a dangerous struggle.

After this action the parties returned to their re­

spective commanders. On the one hand, Scipio could

form no determination, farther than to regulate bis

measures by the designs and proceedings of the enemy ;

and, on the other, Hannibal was in doubt whether he

should continue his march into Italy without intermis­

sion, or come to an engagement with the first Roman

army that threw itself in his way. However, from the

thoughts of an immediate engagement he was diverted

by the arrival of ambassadors from the Boians, and of

