4 LIVY.

of the Samnites, and if they refused obedience, compel

them to it by arms.' To this the Romans gave an inde­

terminate answer, because it would have been mortify­

ing to acknowlege that the Latines were not under their

power, and they feared lest, by charging them with

misbehavior they might attempt to free themselves from

all subjection ; but considered the case of the Campa-

nians as very different, they having come under their

protection, not by treaty, but-by surrender. They

answered, therefore, that ' the Campanians, whether

willing or not, should be quiet; but, in the treaty with

the Latines, there was no article which prohibited their

waging war against whom they chose.'

3. This answer, as it sent away the Samnites in doubt

what opinion to form with respect to the conduct which

the Romans intended to pursue, intirely subverted the

allegiance of the Campanians by the menaces held out

to them ; it also increased the presumption of the La­

tines, as the senate seemed now not disposed, in any

respect, to control them. These last, therefore, under

the pretext of preparing for war against the Samnites,

held frequent meetings, in which their chiefs, concert­

ing matters among themselves, secretly fomented the

design of a war with Rome. The Campanians too gave

their support to this war, though against their pre­

servers. But, notwithstanding that they took all pos­

sible pains to keep their proceedings from being gene­

rally known, and though they wished to get rid of the

Volscian enemy then at their back before the Romans

should be alarmed, yet by means of persons connected

with the latter in hospitality and other private ties, in­

telligence of the conspiracy was conveyed to Rome.

There, the consuls being commanded to abdicate their

office, in order that the new ones might be the sooner

elected, and have the more time to prepare for a war

of so great importance, it began to be considered as

improper that the election should be held by persons

not vested with full authority'; consequently an inter­

regnum took place, and continued under two inter-

reges, Marcus Valerius and Marcus Fabius. [A.U.C,

