HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXI. 279

the spirit of the parties will he—yours, that of con­

querors ; theirs, that of men conquered. Nor is it

confidence, but necessity, which now prompts them to

fight: unless you suppose that those who avoided fight­

ing, when their force was intire, have acquired greater

confidence after the loss of two-thirds of their infantry

and cavalry in the passage over the Alps ; after greater

numbers have perished than survive. But it may be

said, they are few indeed, but vigorous in mind and

body, having a power and strength no force can with­

stand. On the contrary, they are but the resemblance,

mere shadows of men, rendered lifeless by hunger,

cold, filth, and nastiness; battered and disabled among

the rocks and precipices. Add to this, their joints be­

numbed, their sinews stiffened, their limbs shrivelled

by the frost, their armor shattered and broken, their

horses lamed and enfeebled. Such is the infantry,

such the cavalry, with whom you are to fight. You

will have to deal, not with enemies, but the remains of

enemies. And nothing do I fear more than lest, before

you come to a battle, the Alps may appear to have

conquered Hannibal. But perhaps it was right that it

should be so; that, against a nation and commander

guilty of a breach of treaties, the gods themselves

should commence the war, and break the force of the

enemy; and that we who, next to' the gods, were the

party injured, should then take it up, and carry it on

to a conclusion.

41. ' In what I say on this head I am not afraid of

being suspected of ostentatious boasting, for the pur­

pose of encouraging you, while my real sentiments are

different. I might have proceeded with my army into

Spain, my own province, to which I had gone part of

the way; where I should have had my brother to assist

me in council, and to share the danger; and, instead

of Hannibal, I should have had Hasdrubal to contend

with; and, certainly, a less difficult war to manage.

Nevertheless, as I sailed along the coast of Gaul, hav­

ing heard of the approach of this enemy, I landed,

