HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK X. 159

law to be passed concerning appeals; more carefully

enforcing the observance of it by additional sanctions.

This was the third time since the expulsion of the kings

of this law being introduced, and always by the same

family. The reason for renewing it so often was, I

believe, no other than that the influence of a few was

apt to prove too powerful for the liberty of the com­

mons. However, the Porcian law seems intended

solely for the security of the persons of the citizens; a

severe penalty being thereby enacted against beating

with stripes, or putting to death, a Roman citizen.

The Valerian law, after forbidding a person who had

appealed to be beaten with rods and beheaded, added,

in case of any one acting contrary thereto, that it shall

yet be only deemed a wicked act. -This, I suppose,

was judged of sufficient strength to enforce obedience

to the law in those days; so powerful was then men's

sense of shame: at present one would scarcely make

use of such a threat seriously, even on any ordinary

occasion. The jEquans rebelling, the same consul

conducted the war against them; in which no memo­

rable event occurred; for, except ferocity, they re­

tained nothing of their ancient condition. The other

consul, Appuleius, invested the town of Nequinum in

Umbria. The ground, the same whereon Narnia now

stands, was so steep, (on one side even perpendicular,')

as to render the town impregnable, either by assault

or works. [A. U. C. 453. B.C. 299.] That business

therefore came unfinished into the hands of the suc­

ceeding consuls, Marcus Fulvius Pretinus and Titus

Manlius Torquatus. We are told by Licinius Macer

and Tubero that all the centuries named Quintus Fa-

bius, though not a candidate, consul for that year ; but

that he himself recommended to them to postpone the

conferring the consulship on him until a year wherein

there might be more employment for their arms ; add-

iug, that during the present year he might be more

useful in the management of a city magistracy; and

thus, neither dissembling what he aimed at, nor yet

making direct application for it, he was appointed cu­

