64 LIVY.

coming on prevented their assaulting the works; but

they did not conceal their intention of doing so next

day as soon as the light should appear. The dictator

found that there would be a necessity for lighting

sooner than he had expected; and lest the situation

should be an obstruction to the bravery of the troops,

he led away the legions in silence, leaving a great num足

ber of fires, the better to deceive the enemy. The

camps however lay so close together, that he could not

escape their observation: their cavalry instantly pur足

sued, and pressed closely on his troops, yet refrained

from attacking them until the day appeared. Their

infantry did not even quit their camp before daylight.

As soon as it was dawn the cavalry ventured to begin

skirmishing; and by harassing the Roman rear, and

pressing them in places of difficult passage, consider'

ably delayed their march. Meanwhile their infantry

overtook their cavalry ; and now the Samnites pursued

close with their intire force. The dictator, then, find足

ing that he could no longer go forward without great

inconvenience, ordered the spot where he stood to be

measured out for a camp. But it was impossible,

while the enemy's horse were spread about on every

side, that palisades could be brought, and the work be

begun: seeing it therefore impracticable, either to

march forward or to settle himself there, he drew up

his troops for battle, removing the baggage out of the

line. The enemy likewise formed their line opposite

to his; nowise inferior, either in spirit or in strength.

Their courage was chiefly improved from not knowing

that the motive of the Romans' retreat was the ihcom-

modiousness of the ground, so that they imagined

themselves objects of terror, and supposed that they

were pursuing men who fled through fear. This kept

the balance of the fight equal for a considerable time ;

though, of late, it had been unusual with the Samnites

to stand even the shout of a Roman army. Certain it

is that the contest, on this day, continued so very

doubtful, from the third hour to the eighth, that nei足

ther was the shout repeated, after being raised at the

