HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK X. 173

battles were fought, at times and places unfavorable,

and increasing confidence rendered the enemy daily

more formidable ; so that matters came nearly to such

a state, as that neither could the soldiers rely much on

their leader, nor the leader on his soldiers. It ap?-

pears in three several histories that a letter was sent

by the consul to call his colleague from Samnium.

But I will not affirm what requires stronger proofs,

that point having been disputed between these two

consuls, a second time associated in the same office,

Appius denying that he sent any such, and Volumnius

affirming that he was called thither by a letter from

him. Volumnius had by this time taken three forts

in Samnium, in which three thousand of the enemy

had been slain, and about half that number made pri­

soners; and a sedition having been raised among the

Lucanians by the plebeians, and the more indigent of

the people, be had, to the great satisfaction of the

nobles, quelled it by sending thither Quintus Fabius,

proconsul, with his own veteran army. He left to

Decius the ravaging of the country, and proceeded

with his troops into Etruria to his colleague, where

on his arrival the army in general received him with

joy. Appius, if he did not write the letter, being con­

scious of this, had, in my opinion, just ground of dis­

pleasure : but if he had actually sent for assistance,

his disowning it, as he did, arose from an illiberal and

ungrateful mind : for on going out to receive him,

when they had scarcely exchanged salutations, he

said, ' Is all well, Lucius Volumnius? How stand

affairs in Samnium ? What motive induced you to re­

move out of your province?' Volumnius answered, that

' affairs in Samnium were in a prosperous state; and

that he had come thither in compliance with the re­

quest in his letter. Cut if that were a forged letter,

and that there was no occasion for him in Etruria, he

would instantly face about and depart.' ' You may

depart,' replied the other; ' no one detains you: for

it is a perfect inconsistency, that when, perhaps, you

are scarcely equal to the management of the war al­

