HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK X. 1G1

sessed, laid themselves out to make friends of the

Gauls instead of enemies ; in order that, with their

armies combined, they might attack the Romans. The

barbarians made no objection to the alliance, and a

negotiation was opened for settling the price; which

being adjusted and paid, the Etrurians, having every

thing else in readiness for commencing their opera­

tions, desired them to accompany them in their march.

But this they refused, alleging that ' they had stipu­

lated a price for their assistance against the Romans :

that the payment already made they had received in

consideration of their not wasting the Etrurian terri­

tory, or using their arms against the inhabitants: that,

notwithstanding, if it was the wish of the Etrurians,

they were still willing to engage in the war; but on no

other condition than that of being allowed a share of

their lands, and obtaining at length some permanent

settlement.' Many assemblies of the states of Etruria

were held on this subject without being able to come

to any conclusion ; not so much by reason of their

aversion from the,dismemberment of their territory as

of the dread which every one felt of the consequences,

if they should fix in so close vicinity to themselves

people of such a savage race. The Gauls were there­

fore dismissed, and carried home an immense sum of

money, acquired without toil or danger. The report

of a Gallic tumult, in addition to an Etrurian war, had

caused serious apprehensions at Rome; and, with the

less hesitation on that account, an alliance was con­

cluded with the state of the Picentians.

11. The province of Etruria fell by lot to the consul

Titus Manlius; who, when he had but just entered the

enemy's country, as he was exercising the cavalry, in

wheeling about at full speed, was thrown from his

horse, and almost killed on the spot; three days after

he died. The Etrurians, embracing this omen, as it

were, of the future progress of the war, and observing

that the gods had commenced hostilities on their be-'

half, assumed new courage. At Rome the news caused

great affliction, on account both of the loss of such a

LIV. VOL. III. L

