162 LIVY.

man and of the unseasonableness of the juncture; in­

somuch, that the senate would have proceeded to order

a dictator to be created, but that an assembly, held for

the purpose of substituting a new consul, was con­

ducted agreeably to the wishes of people of the first

consequence. All the votes and centuries concurred

unanimously in appointing Marcus Valerius consul,

the same whom the senate would have ordered to be

made dictator. They then commanded him to proceed

immediately into Etruria to the legions. His coming

gave such a check to the Etrurians that not one of

them dared thenceforward to appear on the outside of

their trenches; their own fears operating as a blockade.

Nor could the new consul, by wasting their lands and

burning their houses, draw them out to an engage­

ment ; for not only country houses, but numbers of

their towns, were seen smoking and in ashes on every

side. While this war proceeded more slowly than had

been expected, an account was received of the break­

ing out of another; which was, not without reason,

regarded as terrible, in consequence of the heavy losses

formerly sustained by both parties. This account, given

by their new allies the Picentians, was, that the Sam-

Miles were taking measures for a renewal of hostilities,

and that they themselves had been solicited to join

therein. The Picentians received the thanks of the

state ; and a large share of the attention of the senate

was turned from Etruria towards Samnium. The pub-

- lie suffered also much distress from the dearness of  
provisions, and would have felt the extremity of want,

according to the relation of those who make Fabius

Maximus curule edile that year, had not the vigilant

activity of that man, such as he had on many occasions

displayed in the field, been exerted now with equal

zeal at home, in the management of the market, and in

procuring and forming magazines of corn. An inter­

regnum took place this year, the reason of which is

. not mentioned. Appius Claudius, and, after him,

Publius Sulpicius, were interreges. [A. U. C. 464.

B.C. 2S)8.] The latter held an election of consuls, and

