HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXI. 239

7. While the Romans were employed in these deli­

berations and preparatory measures, the siege of Sa-

guntum was prosecuted with the utmost vigor. This

city, by far the most wealthy of any beyond the Iberus,

stood at the distance of about a mile from the sea: the

inhabitants are said to have come originally from the

island Zacynthus, and to have been joined by some of

the Rutulian race from Ardea. They had grown up,

in a very short time, to this high degree of opulence,

by means of a profitable commerce, both by sea and

land, aided by the increase of their numbers, and their

religious observance of compacts, which they carried

so far as to maintain the faith of all engagements in­

violate, even should they tend to their own destruction.

Hannibal marched into their territory in a hostile man­

ner, and, after laying all the country waste, attacked

their city on three different sides. There was an angle

of the wall, which stretched down into a vale, more

level and open than the rest of the ground round the

place: against this he resolved to carry on his ap­

proaches, by means of which the battering-ram might

be advanced up to the walls. But although the ground

at some distance was commodious enough for the ma­

nagement of his machines, yet, when the works came

to be applied to the purpose intended, it was found to

be no way favorable to the design ; for it was over­

looked by a very large tower; and, as in that part

danger was apprehended, the wall had been raised to a

height beyond that-of the rest. Besides, as the great­

est share of fatigue and danger was expected there, it

was defended with the greater vigor by a band of

chosen young men. These, at first with missile wea­

pons, kept the enemy at a distance, nor suffered them

to carry on any of their works in safety. In a little

time they not only annoyed them from the tower and

the walls, but had the courage to sally out on the

works and posts of the enemy; in which tumultuary

engagements the Saguntines generally suffered not a

greater loss of men than the Carthaginians. But Han­

nibal himself happening^ as he approached the wall

