62 LIVY.

public quarrel, but by their private emolument. Thus

reduced, the Samnites sued to the dictator for peace;

and after they had engaged to supply each of his sol­

diers with a suit of clothes and a year's pay, being

ordered to apply to the senate, they answered that

they would follow the dictator, committing their cause

wholly to his integrity and honor. On this the troops

were withdrawn out of Samnium.

37. [A.U.C. 431. B.C. 321.] The dictator entered

the city in triumph; and though desirous of resigning

his office immediately, yet, by order of the senate, he

held it until the consuls were elected: these were Caius

Sulpicius Longus, a second time, and Quintus jEmilius

Cerretanus. The Samnites, without finishing the treaty

of peace, the terms being still in negotiation, departed,

after concluding a truce for a year. Nor was even that

faithfully observed, so strongly was their inclination

for war excited on hearing that Papirius was gone out

of office. In this consulate of Caius Sulpicius and

Quintus jEmilius (some histories have Aulius), to the

revolt of the Samnites was added a new war with the

Apulians. Armies were sent against both. The Sam­

nites fell by lot to Sulpicius, the Apulians to iEmilius.

Some writers say that this war was not waged with the

Apulians, but in defence of the allied states of that na­

tion against the violence and injustice of the Samnites.

But the circumstances of the Samnites at that period,

when they were themselves engaged in a war, which

they could with difficulty support, render it more pro­

bable that they did not make war on the Apulians, but

that both nations were in arms against the Romans at

the same time. However, no memorable event oc­

curred. The lands of the Apulians and Samnium were

utterly laid waste; but in neither quarter did the

enemy show themselves. At Rome an alarm, which

happened in the night, suddenly roused the people

from their sleep in such a fright, that the capitol and

citadel, the walls and gates, were all filled with men in

arms. But after they had called all to their posts, and

run together in bodies in every quarter, when day ap-

