38 LIVY.

Flavius, on occasion of the funeral of his mother.

There were many who represented that, under the ap­

pearance of doing honor to his parent, he was making

recompense to the people for having acquitted him,

when prosecuted by the ediles on a charge of having

debauched a married woman. This donative, intended

as a return for favors shown on the trial, proved also

the means of procuring him the honor of a public office;

for, at the next election of plebeian tribunes, though

absent, he was preferred before the candidates who so­

licited in person. The city Palaepolis was situated at

no great distance from the spot where Neapolis now

stands. The two cities were inhabited by one people :

these came from Cumae, and the Cumans derive their

origin from Chalcis in Euboea. By means of the fleet

in which they had been conveyed hither they pos­

sessed great power on the coast of the sea, near which

they dwelt. Their first landing was on the islands of

jEnaria, and the Pithacnsae : afterwards they ventured

to transfer their settlement to the continent. This state,

relying on their own strength, and also on the'disposi­

tion of the Samnites to come to a rupture with the Ro­

mans ; or, encouraged by the report of a pestilence

having attacked the city of Rome, committed various

acts of hostility against the Romans settled in the Cam-

panian and Falernian territories. Wherefore, in the

succeeding consulate of Lucius Cornelius and Quintus

Publilius Philo a second time, [A.U.C. 428. B.C. 324]

heralds being sent to Palaepolis to demand satisfaction,

and a haughty answer being returned by these Greeks,

a race more magnanimous in words than in action, the

people, in pursuance of the direction of the senate,

ordered war to be declared against them. On settling

the provinces between the consuls, the war against the

Greeks fell to Publilius. Cornelius, with another army,

was appointed to watch the motions of the Samnites;

and a report prevailing of an expected revolt in Cam­

pania, in which case- they intended to march their

troops thither, that was judged the properest station for

him.

