66 LIVY.

nites on the one hand ; and when, on the other, the dic­

tator saw tbeir troops in the van looking behind them,

their battalions in confusion, and their line wavering,

he earnestly exhorted and animated his men, calling

on the tribunes and chief centurions by name to join

him in renewing the fight. Raising the shout anew,

they pressed forward, and as they advanced perceived

the enemy more and more confused. The cavalry now

could be seen by those in front, and Cornelius, turning

about to the several companies, made them understand,

by raising his voice and hands, that he saw the standards

and bucklers of his own horsemen. On hearing which,

and at the same time seeing them, they at once so far

forgot the fatigue which they had endured, through al­

most the whole day, and even their wounds, that they

rushed to the fray with as much vigor and alacrity as

if they were coming fresh out of camp on receiving

the signal for battle. The Samnites could no longer

sustain the charge of horse and foot together: part of

them, inclosed on both sides, were cut off; the rest

separated and fled different ways. The infantry slew

those who were surrounded and made resistance ; and

the cavalry made great havoc of the fugitives, among

whom fell their general. This battle crushed at length

the power of the Samnites so effectually that, in all

their meetings, they expressed so much discontent, and

said, ' it was not at all to be wondered at, if in an im­

pious war, commenced in violation of a treaty, when

the gods were, with justice, more incensed against them

than men, none of their undertakings prospered. They

were not to expect the crime, (for such an infraction of

treaties must be held,) to be expiated and atoned for

without a heavy penalty. The only alternative they

had, was whether the penalty should be the guilty

blood of a few, or the innocent blood of all.' Some

now ventured to name the authors of the war, among

whom was particularly mentioned Brutulus Papius:

he was a man of power and noble birth, and undoubt­

edly the cause of the late rupture. The pretors being

compelled to take the opinion of the assembly concern­

