HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK IX. 133

might be wielded with ease; a loose coat of mail also

helped to defend the breast, and the left leg was co­

vered with a greave; their helmets were adorned with

plumes, to add to the appearance of their stature. The

golden-armed soldiers wore tunics of various colors ;

the silver-armed, of white linen. To the latter the

right wing was assigned; the former took post on the

left. The Romans had been apprised of these splendid

accoutrements, and had been taught by their command­

ers that ' a soldier ought to be rough; not decorated

with gold and silver, but placing his confidence in his

sword : that matters of this kind were in reality spoil

rather than armor; glittering before action, but soon

losing their brilliancy when besmeared with blood :

that the brightest ornament of a soldier was valor: that

all those trinkets would follow victory ; and that those

rich enemies would be valuable prizes to the poorer

conquerors.' Cursor, having animated his men with

these observations, led them on to battle. He took

post himself on the right wing, giving the command of

the left to the master of the horse. At the first onset

the conflict between the two armies became desperate,

while the dictator and the master of the horse were

eagerly contending on which wing victory should first

show itself. It happened that Junius first, with the

left wing, made the right of the enemy give way; this

consisted of men devoted after the custom of the Sam-

nites, and on that account distinguished by white gar­

ments and armor of equal whiteness. Junius, saying

'he would sacrifice these to Pluto,' pressed forward,

disordered their ranks, and made an evident impres­

sion : which being perceived by the dictator, he ex­

claimed, ' Shall the battle begin on the left wing; and

shall the right, the dictator's own troops, only second

the arms of others, and not claim the greatest share of

the victory?' This spurred on the soldiers: nor did

the cavalry yield to the infantry in bravery, nor the

ardor of lieutenant-generals to that of the commanders.

Marcus Valerius from the right wing, and Publius

Decius from the left, both men of consular rank, rode

