HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK IX. 137

appear wonderful in the relation, began by snatching

the standards out of the hands which held them ; and

then the standard-bearers themselves were dragged to

the consul, and the armed soldiers hauled from the one

line to the other; little resistance was any where made,

and the business was performed, not so much with

swords, as with their shields, with the bosses of which,

and thrusts of their elbows, they bore down the foe.

The prisoners were more numerous than the slain, and

through the whole line the Umbrians called on each

other, with one voice, to lay down their arms. Thus a

surrender was made in the midst of action, by the first

promoters of the war; and on the next and following

days the other states of this people also surrendered.

The Ocriculans were admitted to a treaty of friendship

on giving security.

42. Fabius, after reaping laurels in a war allotted to

another, led back his army into his own province.

And as, in the preceding year, the people had, in con­

sideration of his services so successfully performed,

re-elected him to the consulship, so now the senate,

from the same motive, notwithstanding a warm oppo­

sition made by Appius, prolonged his command for

the year following, [A. U. C. 446. B. C. 306] in which

Appius Claudius and Lucius Volumuius were consuls.

In some annals I find that Appius, still holding the

office of censor, declared himself a candidate for the

consulship, and that his election was stopped by a pro­

test of Lucius Furius, plebeian tribune, until he re­

signed the censorship. After his election to the con­

sulship, the new war with the Sallentines, who had

taken arms, being decreed to his colleague, he re­

mained, at Rome, with design to increase his interest

by popular intrigues, since the means of procuring ho­

nor in war were placed in the hands of others. Vo-

lumnius bad no reason to be dissatisfied with his pro­

vince : he fought many battles with good success, and

took several cities by assault. He was liberal in his

donations of the spoil; and this munificence, engaging

in itself, he enhanced by his courteous demeanor, by

