HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK X. 169

and there were slain in the assault about four hundred

and thirty. Going thenoe to Rome to preside at the

elections, he used all expedition in despatching that

business. All the first-called centuries voted Quintus

Fabius consul. Appius Claudius was a candidate, a

man of consular rank, daring and ambitious; and as

he wished not more ardently for the attainment of that

honor for himself, than he did that the patricians might

recover the possession of both places in the consulship,

he labored, with all his own power, supported by that

of the whole body of the nobility, to prevail on them

to appoint him consul along with Quintus Fabius. To

this Fabius objected, giving at first the same reasons

which be had advanced the year before. The nobles

then all gathered round his seat, and besought him to

raise up the consulship out of the plebeian mire, and

to restore both to the office itself, and to the patrician

rank, their original dignity. Fabius then procuring

silence, allayed their warmth by a qualifying speech,

declaring that ' he would have so managed as to have

received the names of two patricians, if he had seen an

intention of appointing any other than himself to the

consulship. As things now stood, he would not set so

bad a precedent as to admit his own name among the

candidates; such a proceeding being contrary to the

laws.' [A. U. C. 456. B. C. 296.] Whereon Appius

Claudius and Lucius Volumnius, a plebeian, who had

likewise been colleagues in that office before, were

elected consuls. The nobility reproached Fabius for

declining to act in conjunction with Appius Claudius,

because he evidently excelled him in eloquence and

political abilities.

16. When the election was finished, the former con­

suls were continued in command for six months, and

ordered to prosecute the war in Samnium. Accord­

ingly, during this next year, in the consulate of Lucius

Volumnius and Appius Claudius, Publius Decius, who

had been left consul in Samnium by his colleague,

continued in the character of proconsul to spread de­

vastation in like manner as in the preceding year,

