78 LIVY.

the disaster which had hefallen them. At first they

heard that the troops were shut up; afterwards the

news of the ignominious peace arrived ; and this caused

greater affliction than had been felt for their danger.

On the report of their being surrounded a levy of men

was begun ; but when it was understood that the army

had surrendered in so disgraceful a manner, the pre­

parations were laid aside; and immediately, without

any public directions, a general mourning took place,

with all the various demonstrations of grief. The shops

were shut; and all business ceased in the forum by

common consent, without any order for that purpose

being issued. Ornamented dresses1 were laid aside;

and the public were in greater tribulation, if possible,

than the vanquished themselves; they were not only

enraged against the commanders, the advisers and sure­

ties of the peace, but were filled with detestation even

of the unoffending soldiers, and asserted that they

ought not to be admitted into the city. But these

transports of passion were allayed by the arrival of

the troops, in a state so deplorable, as was sufficient to

convert even anger into compassion; for they came

into the city, not like men returning into their coun­

try with unexpected safety, but in the habit, and with

the looks of captives, late in the evening; and they

hid themselves so closely in their houses that, for the

next and several following days, not one of them could

bear to come in sight of the forum or of the public.

The consuls, shut up in private, transacted no official

business, except that they were compelled, by a decree

of the senate, to nominate a dictator to preside at the

elections. They nominated Quintus Fabius Ambustus;

and, as master of the horse, Publius JElius Paetus.

But some irregularity being discovered in their ap-

1 In the original, lati clavi. The latns clavus was a tunic,

or vest, ornamented with a broad stripe of purple on the fore

part, worn by the senators ; the knights wore a similar one,

only ornamented with a narrower stripe. Gold rings were

also used as badges of distinction; the common people wore

iron ones.

