HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK X. 207

ject slaves of the nobles, would have obstructed their

passing an order on it. But he did, and ever should

consider the universal approbation, and will of ths

people, as equivalent to any order whatsoever.' Ac­

cordingly, on the day following, being supported by

three plebeian tribunes in opposition to the protest of

the other seven and the declared judgment of the

senate, he triumphed ; and the people paid every ho­

nor to the day. In the historical accounts which have

been transmitted to us of this year, there is some con­

fusion ; Claudius asserts, that Postumius, after having

taken several cities in Samnium, was defeated and put

to flight in Apulia; and that being wounded himself,

he was obliged to take refuge with a few attendants in

Luceria. That the war in Etruria was conducted by

Allius, and that it was he who triumphed. Fabius

writes, that the two consuls acted in conjunction, both

in Samnium and at Luceria; that an army was led

over into Etruria, but by which of the consuls, he has

not mentioned ; that at Luceria, great numbers were

slain on both sides : and that in that battle, the temple

of Jupiter Stator was vowed, the same vow having

been formerly made by Romulus, but the fane only,

that is the area appropriated for the temple, had been

yet consecrated. However in this year the state hav­

ing been twice bound by the same vow, the senate, to

avoid the guilt of neglect in the case of a religious ob­

ligation, ordered the fane to be erected.

38. In the next year [A. U. C. 459. B. C. 293] we

find a consul, of a character eminently illustrious, dis­

tinguished by the united splendor of his own and his

father's glory, Lucius Papirius Cursor. We find like­

wise a war of the utmost importance, and a victory of

such consequence, as no man, excepting Lucius Papi­

rius, the consul's father, had ever before obtained over

the Samnites. It happened too that these had, with

the same care and pains as on the former occasion, de­

corated their soldiers with the richest suits of splendid

armor; and they had likewise called in to their aid

the power of the gods, having, as it were, initiated tha

