HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK VIII. 27

to them. The Tiburtians and Pranestians were amerced

in a portion of their lands; not merely on account of

their recent crime of rebellion, common to them with

the rest of the Latines, but because they had formerly,

in disgust at the Roman government, associated in

arms with the Gauls, a nation of savages. From the

other states they took away the privileges of intermar­

riage, commerce, and holding assemblies. To the

Campanians, in compliment to their horsemen, who

had refused to join in rebellion with the Latines, as

likewise to the Fundans and Formians, because the

troops had always found a safe and quiet passage

through their territories, the freedom of the state was

granted, without right of suffrage. The states of Cu-

mae and Suessula, it was decreed, should be placed on

the same footing, and enjoy the same privileges, as

Capua. Of the ships of the Antians, some were drawn

up into the docks at Rome ; the rest were burned, and

with the prows of these a pulpit, built in the forum,

was ordered to be decorated, hence called rostra.1

15. During the succeeding consulate of Caius Sul-

picius Longus and Publius jElius Paetas, [A. U. C.

418. B. C. 334] whilst all the neighboring states were

sincerely disposed, not more through consideration of

the power of the Romans than grateful sentiments in­

spired by their generous conduct to cultivate peace

with them, a quarrel broke out between the Sidicinians

and the Auruncians. The latter having been formerly,

on their submission, admitted into alliance by Titus

Manlius in his consulate, had ever since demeaned

themselves peaceably, for which reason they were

more justly intitled to expect assistance from the Ro­

mans. But before the consuls led out the army, (for

the senate had ordered the Auruncians to be sup­

ported,) intelligence was brought that these, through

fear, had deserted their city, and, removing with their

wives and children, had fortified Suessa, which is now

called Aurunca, and that their former dwellings and

1 From rostrum, the beak or prow of a ship.

