HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK X. 151

The force of the war was then directed against the

Etrurians ; and the dictator having gone to Rome, for

the purpose of renewing the auspices, the master of

the horse, going out to forage, was taken at disadvan­

tage, by means of an ambuscade, and obliged to fly

shamefully into his camp, after losing several stand­

ards and many of his men. Now, that such a discom­

fiture happened to Fabius is exceedingly improbable ;

not only because, if in any particular, certainly above

all, in the qualifications of a commander, he fully

merited his surname ; but besides, impressed with the

recollection of Papirius' severity, he never could have

been tempted to fight without the dictator's orders.

4. The news of this disaster excited at Rome an

alarm greater than the importance of the affair should

seem to justify ; for, as if the army had been destroyed,

the courts were ordered to be shut, guards mounted at

the gates, and watches set in every street: and armor

and weapons were heaped on the walls. All the

younger citizens were compelled to enlist, and the dic­

tator was ordered to join the army. There he found

every thing in a more tranquil state than he expected,

aud regularity established, through the care of the

master of the horse; the camp removed to a place of

greater safety ; the cohorts, which had lost their stan­

dards, left without tents on the outside of the ram­

parts; and the troops ardently impatient for battle,

that their disgrace might be the sooner obliterated.

He therefore immediately decamped, and advanced

into the territory of Rusella. Thither the enemy also

followed ; and although, since their late success, they

entertained the most sanguine hopes from an open

trial of strength, yet they endeavored to gain also an

advantage by a stratagem which they had before prac­

tised with success. There were at a small distance

from the Roman camp the half-ruined houses of a

town which had been burnt in the devastation of the

country. Among these they concealed a body of

troops, and then drove on some cattle within view

of a Roman post commanded by a lieutenant-general,

