IS LIVY.

parents, your wives, and children ; think on your

consul, submitting to death to insure your success.'

The veterans rising, with their arms glittering, and re­

ceiving the antepilani into the intervals of their ranks,

presented a new face which was not foreseen ; raising

their shout, they broke the first line of the Latines;

then, after slaying those who constituted the principal

strength, forced their way, almost without a wound,

through the other companies, as if through an unarmed

crowd : and such havoc did they make in their thick­

est bands, that they left alive scarce a fourth part of the

enemy. The Samnites, who stood in order of battle at

a distance, close to the foot of the mountain, increased

the fears of the Latines. But of all, whether citizens

or allies, the principal share of honor was due to the

consuls ; one of whom drew down on his own single

person all the dangers and threats denounced by the

deities either of heaven or hell ; while the other dis­

played such a degree both of courage and conduct,

that it is universally agreed among all who have trans­

mitted to posterity an account of that battle, both La­

tines and Romans, that, on whichever side Manlius

had held the command victory must have attended.

The Latines fled towards Minturnae. The body of

Decius was not found that day, night putting a stop

to the search : on the following, it was discovered

pierced with a multitude of darts, amidst vast heaps of

slaughtered enemies, and his funeral was solemnised,

under the direction of his colleague, in a manner suited

to his honorable death. It seems proper to mention

here, that it is allowable for a consul, dictator, andpre-

tor, when they devote the legions of their enemies, to

devote along with them not themselves in particular, but

any citizen whom they choose out of a Roman legion

regularly inrolled. ' If the person devoted perishes,

the performance is deemed complete. If he die not,

then an image seven feet high, or more, must be buried

in the earth, and a victim sacrificed as an expiation.

Where that image shall be buried, there it shall be

unlawful for a Roman magistrate to pass.' But if he

