HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK VIII. 15

their files, shut up, as it were, every opening, and in

one compact body fell on the enemy; after which

there was no other resource left. This was the most

formidable circumstance to the enemy, when, after

having pursued them as vanquished, they saw a new

line of battle suddenly starting up with an increase of

strength. The number of legions generally raised

was four, each consisting of four thousand foot and

three hundred horse. To these an addition of an equal

number used to be made by levies among the Latinos,

with whom the Romans were now to contend as ene­

mies, and who practised the same method in drawing

up their troops: so that it was well known, that un­

less the ranks should be put out of their order, they

would have to engage, not only ensign against ensign,

a body of every description against one exactly similar,

but even centurion against centurion. There were

among the veterans two first centurions, one in each

army; the Roman deficient in bodily strength, but a

man of courage and experience in service : the Latine

exceedingly strong, and a first-rate warrior. These

were perfectly well known to each other, because they

had always commanded centuries in equal rank. The

Roman, diffident of his strength, had, before he left

Rome, obtained permission from the consuls to appoint

any one he thought proper his sub-centurion, to de­

fend him against the one who was destined to be his

antagonist; and the youth whom he chose being op­

posed to the Latine centurion in battle, obtained a vic­

tory over him. The armies came to an engagement at

a little distance from the foot of Mount Vesuvius,

where the road led to the Veseris.

9. The Roman consuls, before they led out their

forces to the field, performed sacrifices. We are told

that the aruspex showed to Decius that the head of

the liver was wounde'd on the side which respected

himself, in other respects the victim was acceptable to

the gods: but Manlius found, jn his immolation,

omens highly favorable. Ou which Decius said, ' All

is well yet, since my colleague's offering has been ac­

cepted.' With their troops arrayed in the order al­

