HISTORY OF ROME.'—59 BOOK ] VIM.

gratify a wanton humor, quit the service whenever they

might choose. The standards would be forsaken : the

men would neither assemble in pursuance of orders,

nor attend to the difference of fighting by night or by

day, on favorable or unfavorable ground. In a word,

military operations, instead of the regularity esta­

blished under the sanction of a sacred solemnity,

would become like those of freebooters directed by

chance and accident. Render yourselves then, tri­

bunes of the commons, accountable for all these evils

to all future ages. Expose your own persons to these

heavy imputations in defence of the licentious conduct

of Quintus Fabius.'

35. The tribunes stood confounded, and were now

more anxiously concerned at their own situation than

at his who sought their support, when they were freed

from this embarrassment by the Roman people una­

nimously having recourse to prayers and intreaties,

that the dictator would for their sakes remit the pu­

nishment of the master of the horse. The tribunes

likewise, seeing the business take this turn, followed

the example, earnestly beseeching the dictator to par­

don human error, to consider the immaturity of the

offender's age, who had suffered sufficiently : and now

the youth himself, now his father, Marcus Fabius, dis­

claiming farther contest, fell at the dictator's knees,

and deprecated his wrath. Then the dictator, after

causing silence, said: ' Romans, it is well. Military

discipline has prevailed ; the majesty of government

has prevailed; both which were in danger of ceasing

this day to exist. Quintus Fabius, who fought con­

trary to the order of his commander, is not acquitted

of guilt; but, after being condemned as guilty, is

granted as a boon to the Roman people ; is granted to

the college of tribunes, supporting him with their

prayers, not with the regular power of their office.

Live, Quintus Fabius, more happy in this union of all

parts of the state for your preservation than in the

victory in which you lately exulted. Live, after hav­

ing ventured on such an act, as yoiy father himself

