HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXI. 295

sincerity of that people, both on account of many in­

stances of treacherous behavior, and particularly,

though the others through length of time might have

been forgotten, on account of the recent perfidy of the

Boians. Sempronius, on the contrary, was of opi­

nion that it would be the strongest tie on the fidelity

of the allies to let them see that the first who stood in

need of aid had found protection. He then, while his

colleague hesitated, despatched his own cavalry, joined

by one thousand foot, mostly light spearmen, over the

Trebia, to protect the lands of the Gauls. These fall­

ing unexpectedly on the enemy, while they were

straggling in disorder, and most of them loaded with

spoil, caused great consternation, slew many, and

drove the rest flying before them to their camp.

Though repulsed by the multitude which sallied out,

yet, as soon as the rest of their party came up, they

again renewed the fight. Success afterwards remained

doubtful; sometimes they retreated, sometimes pur­

sued ; but though at last the advantages were equal

on both sides, yet the honor of the victory was more

generally attributed to the Romans.

53. But to no one did it appear more important and

complete than to the consul himself. He was transported

with joy, at having obtained a victory with that part of

the troops which, under his associate, had been defeated.

' The spirits of the soldiers,' he said ' were now re­

vived ; nor was there any one, except his colleague,

who wished a delay of action. He, more disordered

in mind than in body, and reflecting on his wound,

shuddered at the thoughts of fighting and of arms.

But others ought not to sink into feebleness along with

a sick man: for to what purpose was farther delay or

waste of time ? What third consul or what other army

was to be waited for ? The Carthaginians were en­

camped in Italy, almost within sight of the city. Their

designs did not aim at Sicily and Sardinia, which were

taken from them, nor at the parts of Spain on this side

of the Iberus, but at the expulsion of the Romans from

