176 LIVY.

ranks, prayed thus: • Bellona, if thou grantest us the

victory this day, I vow to thee a temple.' And that

after this vow, as if inspirited by the goddess, he dis­

played a degree of courage equal to that of his col­

league, and of the troops. The generals performed

every duty, and each of their armies exerted, with

emulation, its utmost vigor, lest the other should be

first victorious. They therefore quickly broke and

defeated the enemy, who were ill able to withstand a

force so much superior to any with which they had

been accustomed to contend: then pressing them as

they gave ground, and pursuing them closely as they

fled, they drove them into their camp. There Gelliua

and his Samnite cohorts interposing, the fight was re­

newed for a time with some warmth. But these being

likewise soon dispersed, the conquerors advanced to

storm the camp ; and Volumnius, in person, leading

his troops against one of the gates, while Appius, fre­

quently invoking Bellona the victorious, inflamed the

courage of his men, neither rampart nor trenches

could prevent their breaking in. The camp was taken

and plundered, and the spoil, of which great abun­

dance was found, was given up to the soldiers. Of

the enemy seven thousand three hundred were slain ;

and two thousand one hundred and twenty taken.

20. While both the consuls, with the whole force of

the Romans, pointed their exertions principally against

their enemies in Etruria, a new army was set on foot

in Samnium ; and, with design to ravage the frontiers

of the Roman empire, passed over through the coun­

try of the Vescians into the Campanian and Faler-

nian territories, where they committed great depreda­

tions. Volumnius, as he was hastening back to Sam­

nium, by forced marches, because the term for which

Fabius and Decius had been continued in command

was nearly expired, heard of this army of Samnites,

and of the mischief which they had done in Campania;

determining, therefore, to afford protection to the al­

lies, he altered his route towards that quarter. When

he arrived in the district of Cales, he found marks of

