HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK IX. 91

be endured, rather than that so many Roman youths

of the first distinction should be brought into danger.

15. The assembly being then dismissed, a consulta­

tion was held, whether they should press forward the

siege of Luceria, with all their forces; or, whether one

of the commanders and his army should make trial of

the dispositions of the rest of the Apulians, which were

still doubtful. The consul Publilius set out to make a

circuit through Apulia, and in the one expedition either

reduced by force, or received into alliance, on con­

ditions, a considerable number of the states. Papirius

likewise, who had remained to prosecute the siege of

Luceria, soon found the event agreeable to his hopes;

for all the roads being blocked up, through which pro­

visions used to be conveyed from Samnium, the Sam-

nites in garrisons were reduced so low by famine, that

they sent ambassadors to the Roman consul, proposing

that he should raise the siege, on receiving the horse­

men who were the cause of the war. To whom Pa­

pirius returned this answer, that ' they ought to have

consulted Pontius, son of Herennius, by whose advice

they had sent the Romans under the yoke, what treat­

ment he thought fitting for the conquered to undergo.

But since, instead of offering fair terms themselves,

they chose rather that they should be imposed on them

by their enemies, be desired them to carry back orders

to the troops in Luceria, that they should leave within

the walls their arms, baggage, beasts of burden, and

all persons unfit for war. The soldiers he would send

under the yoke with single garments, retaliating the

disgrace formerly inflicted, not setting the example.'

All this they submitted to. Seven thousand soldiers

were sent under the yoke, and an immense booty was

seized in the town, where the Romans retook all the

standards and arms which they had lost at Caudium ;

and, what greatly increased their joy, recovered the

horsemen whom the Samnites had sent to Luceria to

be kept as pledges of the peace. Hardly ever did the

Romans gain a victory more remarkable for the sudden

reverse produced in the state of their affairs: especially

