202 LIVY.

diers, and speak to them ; and, as he came up to each,

he rebuked them for their backwardness in taking

arms, asking, ' Why they loitered and declined the

fight.' If they did not choose to go out of the camp,

the enemy would come into it; and they must fight in

defence of their tents, if they would not in defence of

the rampart. Men who have arms in their hands, and

contend with their foe, have always a chance for vic­

tory ; but the man who waits naked and unarmed for

his enemy must suffer either death or slavery.' To

these reprimands and rebukes they answered that

' they were exhausted by the fatigue of the battle of

yesterday, and had no strength nor even blood re­

maining; and, besides, the enemy appeared more nu­

merous than they were the day before.' The hostile

army, in the mean time, drew near: so that, seeing

every thing more distinctly as the distance grew less,

they asserted that the Samnites carried with them pal-

lisades for a rampart, and evidently intended to draw

lines of circumvallation round the camp. On this the

consul exclaimed with great earnestness against sub­

mitting to such an ignominious insult, and from so

dastardly a foe. ' Shall we even be blockaded,' said

he, ' in our camp, and die like cowards by famine,

rather than like men, if death must be our lot, by the

sword? May the gods be propitious! and let every

one act in the manner which he thinks becomes him.

The consul Marcus Atilius, should no other accom­

pany him, will go out, even alone, to face the enemy,

and will fall in the middle of the Samnite battalions,

rather thau see the Roman camp inclosed by their

trenches.' The lieutenants-general, tribunes, every

troop of the cavalry, and the principal centurions, ex­

pressed their approbation of what the consul said ; and

the soldiers at length, overcome by shame, took up

their arms, but in a spiritless manner ; and in the

same spiritless manner marched out of the camp. In

a long train, and that not every where connected, me­

lancholy, and seemingly subdued, they proceeded to­

wards the enemy, whose hopes and courage were not

