HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK IX. 139

creed to Marcius. These, in the beginning, secured

all the passes between the camps of the consul in such

a manner that no messenger, however expert, could

make his way from one to the other; and each consul

spent several days in absolute uncertainty, and in

anxious suspense concerning the state of the other.

Apprehensions for their safety spread even to Rome ;

so that all the younger citizens were compelled to en­

list, and two regular armies were raised to answer sud­

den emergences. The conduct of the Hernicians

during the progress of the war afterwards showed no­

thing suitable to the present alarm, or to the ancient

renown of that nation. Without ever making any

effort worth mentioning, being beaten out of three dif­

ferent camps within a few days, they stipulated for a

truce of thirty days, during which they might send to

Rome, to the senate, on the terms of furnishing two

months' pay, and corn, and a tunic to every soldier.

The senate referred them back to Marcius, whom they

empowered to determine on the affair, and he accepted

their submission. Meanwhile, in Samnium, the other

consul, though superior in strength, was very much

embarrassed by the nature of his situation : the enemy

had blocked up all the roads, and seized on the passa­

ble defiles, so as to stop all supplies of provisions; nor

could the consul, though he daily drew out his troops

and offered battle, allure them to an engagement. It

was evident that neither could the Samnites support an

immediate contest, nor the Romans a delay of action.

The approach of Marcius, who, after he had subdued

the Hernicians, hastened to the succor of his colleague,

put it 'out of the enemy's power any longer to avoid

fighting: for they, who had not deemed themselves a

match in the field, even for one of the armies, conld

surely not suppose that if they should allow the two

consular armies to unite, they could have any hope

remaining: they made an attack therefore on Marcius

as he was approaching in the irregular order of march.

The baggage was hastily thrown together in the centre,

and the line formed as well as the time permitted.

