HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK X. 20!)

wards as a warning to others not to refuse it. When

those of the first rank in the Sammte nation had been

bound under these solemnities, the general nominated

ten, whom he desired to choose each a man, and so to

proceed until they should have filled up the number of

sixteen thousand. This body, from the covering of the

inclosure wherein the nobility had been thus devoted,

was called the linenlegion. They were furnished with

splendid armor, and plumed helmets, to distinguish

them above the rest. They had another body of forces,

amounting to somewhat more than twenty thousand,

not inferior to the linen legion, either in personal ap­

pearance, or renown in war, or their equipment for

service. This number, composing the main strength of

the nation, sat down at Aquilonia.

39. On the other side, the consuls set out from the

city. First, Spurius Carvilius, to whom had been de­

creed the veteran legions, which Marcus Atilius, the

consul of the preceding year, had left in' the territory

of Interamna, marched at their head into Samnium ;

and, while the enemy were busied in their superstitious

rites, and holding their secret meeting, he took by

storm the town of Amiternum. Here were slain about

two thousand eight hundred men ; and four thousand

two hundred and seventy were made prisoners. Pa-

pirius, with a new army, which he raised in pursuance

of a decree of the senate, made himself master of the

city of Duronia. He took fewer prisoners than his

colleague; but slew much greater numbers. Rich

booty was acquired in both places. The consuls then,

overrunning Samnium, and wasting the province of

Atinum with particular severity, arrived, Carvilius at

dominium, and Papirius at Aquilonia, where the main

force of the Samnites was posted. Here, for some time,

there was neither a cessation of action, nor any vigor­

ous effort. The day was generally spent in provoking

the enemy when quiet, and retiring when they offered

resistance ; in menacing, rather than making an attack.

By which practice of beginning, and then desisting,

even those trifling skirmishes were continually left

LIV. VOL. III. O

