26 LIVY.

Roman people. On the same terms with these the

Aricians, Nomentans, and Pedans, were received into

the number of citizens. To the Tusculans the rights

of citizens, of which they were already in possession,

were continued ; and the guilt of the rebellion, instead

of being imputed to disaffection in the state, was thrown

on a few incendiaries. On the Veliternians, who were

Roman citizens of an old standing, in resentment of

their having so often arisen in rebellion, severe ven­

geance was inflicted : their walls were rased, and their

senate driven into banishment; they were also enjoined

to dwell on the farther side of the Tiber, with a denun­

ciation that if any of them should be caught on the

hither side of that river, the fine to be paid for his dis­

charge should be no less than one thousand asses,1 and

that the person apprehending him should not release

him from confinement until the money should be paid.

Into the lands which had belonged to their senators

colonists were sent, from the addition of whose num­

bers Velitraa recovered the appearance of its former

populousness. To Antium, also, a new colony was

sent, permission being granted at the same time to the

Antians of having themselves inrolled therein if they

chose it. The ships of war were taken from them, aud

the people wholly interdicted from meddling with ma­

ritime affairs; but the rights of citizens were granted

corporate towns, where the people retained their own laws

and magistrates, and even honored with the title, and some

of them with all the rights and privileges of Roman citizens.

The people of Caere were the first who were thus indulged

with full rights; but afterwards, having joined some neigh­

boring states in a war against Rome, all the privileges of ci­

tizens were taken from them, and the title only left. In other

countries they planted colonies of their own citizens; by

which means they disburdened the city of numbers of useless

and poor inhabitants, and at the same time formed barriers

against the adjoining states. Colonists retained all the rights

of citizens, chose their own magistrates, and formed a kind of

petty republics under that of Rome. Other countries were

made prefectures, deprived of their own laws and magistrates,

and governed by a prefect sent annually from Rome,

1 3i.4s.7d.

