154 LIVY.

arms behind. By this battle the power of the Etru­

rians was, a second time, effectually crushed, so that,

engaging to furnish a year's pay, and corn for two

months, with the dictator's permission, they sent am­

bassadors to Rome to treat of peace. This was refused,

but a truce for two years was granted to them. The

dictator returned into the city in triumph. I have

seen it asserted that tranquillity was restored into

Etruria by the dictator, without any memorable battle,

only by composing the dissensions of the Arretians,

and effecting a reconciliation between the Cilnian fa­

mily and the commons. Marcus Valerius was elected

consul, before the expiration of his dictatorship, many

have believed, without his soliciting the office, and

even while he was absent; and that the election was

held by an interrex. In one point all agree, that be

held the consulship with Quintus Appuleius Pansa.

6. During this consulate of Marcus Valerius and

Quintus Appuleius affairs abroad wore a very peace­

able aspect. Their losses sustained in war, together

with the truce, kept the Etrurians quiet. The Sam-

nites, depressed by the misfortunes of many years,

had not yet become dissatisfied with their new alliance.

At Rome also, the carrying away of such multitudes

to colonies rendered the commons tranquil, and light­

ened their burdens. But, that all things might not

stagnate in a dead calm, a contention was excited be­

tween the principal persons in the commonwealth, pa­

tricians on one hand, and plebeians on the other, by

the two Ogulnii, Quintus and Cneius, plebeian tri­

bunes, who seeking every where occasions of crimi­

nating the patricians in the hearing of the people, and

having found other attempts fruitless, engaged in a

scheme calculated to inflame, not the lowest class of

the commons, but their chief men, the plebeians of

consular and triumphal rank, to the completion of

whose honors nothing was now wanting but the offices

of the priesthood, which were not yet laid open to

them. [A.U.C. 452. B.C. 300.] They therefore pub­

lished a proposal for a law, that, whereas there were

