LIVY.

night, or at all events at the dawn of day, to attack the

enemy's camp.' The Roman troops, though not less

eager for action, were restrained by the commands of

the general. About the tenth hour the consul ordered

his men a repast, and gave directions that they should

be ready in arms at whatever time of the day or night

he should give the signal. He then addressed a few

words to them ; spoke in high terms of the wars of the

Samnites, and contemptuously of the Etrurians, who

' were not,' he said, ' to be compared with other na­

tions, either in respect of abilities as soldiers or in

point of numbers. Besides, he had an engine at work,

as they should find in due time : at present it was of

importance to keep it secret.' This he intimated in

order to raise the courage of his men, damped by the

superiority of the enemy's force ; and, from their not

having fortified the post where they lay, the insinua­

tion of a stratagem formed against them seemed the

more credible. After refreshing themselves they went

to rest; and being roused without noise, about the

fourth watch, took arms. The servants following the

army had axes put into their ha'nds, to tear down the

rampart and fill up the trench. The line was formed,

within the works, and some chosen cohorts posted close

to the gates. Then, a little before day, which in sum­

mer nights is the time of the profoundest sleep, the

signal being given, the rampart was levelled, and the

troops rushing forth, fell on the enemy, who were

every where stretched at their length. Some were put

to death before they could stir; others, half asleep in

their beds; the greatest part, while they ran in confu­

sion to arms; few, in short, had time to defend them­

selves ; and those who followed no particular leader,

nor orders, were quickly routed and pursued by the

Roman horse. They fled different ways; to the camp

and to the woods. The latter afforded the safer re­

fuge ; for the former, being situated in a plain, was

taken the same day. The gold and silver was ordered

to be brought to the consul; the rest of the spoil was

given to the soldiers. On that day sixty thousand of

