204 LIVY.

or Samnite; and placing himself in the way of his

men, as they pressed in disorder towards the camp,

denounced threats to the same purport: ' Whither are

you going, soldiers?' said he; 'here also yon will

find both men and arms ; nor while your consul lives

shall you pass the rampart, unless you bring victory

along with you. Choose therefore which you will

prefer, fighting against your own countrymen, or the

enemy.' While the consul was thus speaking the

cavalry gathered round, with the points of their spears

presented, and ordered the infantry to return to the

fight. Not only his own brave spirit, but fortune like足

wise aided the consul, for the Samnites did not push

their advantage ; so that he had time to wheel round

his battalions, and to change his front from the camp

towards the enemy. The men then began to encourage

each other to return to the battle, while the centurions

snatched the ensigns from the standard-bearers and

bore them forward, pointing out to the soldiers the

enemy, coming on in a hurry, few in number, and with

their ranks disordered. At the same time the consul,

with his hands lifted up towards heaven, and raising

his voice so as to be heard at a distance, vowed a

temple to Jupiter Stator if the Roman army should

rally from flight, and renewing the battle, defeat the

Samnites. All divisions of the army now united their

efforts to restore the fight ; officers, soldiers, in short

the whole force, both of cavalry and infantry ; even

the gods seemed to have looked with favor on the Ro足

man causes so speedily was a thorough change effected

in the fortune of the day, the enemy being repulsed

from the camp, and in a short time driven back to the

spot where the battle had commenced. Here they

stopped, being obstructed by the heap of baggage

lying in their way, where they had thrown it toge足

ther ; and then to prevent the plundering of their ef足

fects, formed round them a circle of troops. On this

the infantry assailed them vigorously in front, while

the cavalry wheeling, fell on their rear ; and being

thus inclosed between the two, they were all either

