HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK VIII. 37

by this stubborn answer the adversaries of the cause

of the Privernians were the more exasperated against

them, and wishing, by a question of favorable import,

to draw from him a more conciliating reply, said to

him, ' What if we remit the punishment, in what man­

ner may we expect that you will observe the peace

which shall be established between us?' He replied,

' If the peace which you grant us be a good one, invio­

lably and eternally; if bad, for no long continuance.'

On this several exclaimed that the Privernian menaced

them, and not in-ambiguous terms; and that such ex­

pressions were calculated to excite rebellion. But the

more reasonable part of the senate interpreted his an­

swers more favorably, and said that ' the words which

they had beard were those of a man, and of one who

knew what it was to be free. Could it be believed that

any people, or even any individual, would remain

longer than necessity constrained in a situation which

he felt painful ? that the terms of a peace were faith­

fully observed only when they were voluntarily ac­

cepted ; but that it was absurd to expect fidelity when

attempts were made to establish slavery.' In this opi­

nion they were led to concur, principally by the consul

himself, who frequently observed to the consulars, who

had proposed the different resolutions, in such a manner

as to be heard by the rest, that ' surely those men who

thought of nothing but liberty were worthy of being

made Romans.' They consequently carried their cause

in the senate : and moreover, by direction of that body,

a proposal was laid before the people that the freedom

of the state should be granted to the Privernians.

This year a colony of three hundred was sent to Anxur,

and received two acres of land each.

22. The year following, [A.U. C. 427. B.C. 325] in

which the consuls were Publius Plautius Proculus and

Publius Cornelius Scapula, was remarkable for no one

transaction, civil or military, except the sending of a

colony to Fregellae, a district which had belonged to

the Sidicinians, and afterwards to the Volscians; and

a distribution of meat to the people, made by Marcus

