HISTORY OF ROME.— 71 BOOK IX.

soldiers, crowding to the general's quarters, demanded

from their leaders that succor, which it was hardly in

the power of the immortal gods themselves to afford

them.

3. Night came on while they were employed in la­

menting their situation, all urging with warmth what­

ever their several tempers prompted. Some crying

out, ' Let us go over those fences which ohstruct the

roads;' others, ' over the steeps; through the woods;

any way where arms can be carried. Let us be but

permitted to come to the enemy, whom we have been

used to conquer now near thirty years. All places will

be level and plain to a Roman fighting against the per­

fidious Samnite.' Another would say, ' Whither, or by

what way can we go? Do we expect to remove the

mountains from their foundations? While these cliffs

hang over us, how can we proceed? Whether armed

or unarmed, brave or dastardly, we are all, without dis­

tinction, captured and vanquished. The enemy will not

even show us a weapon by which we might die with

honor. He will finish the war without moving from

his seat.' In such discourse, thinking of neither food

nor rest, they passed the whole night. Nor could the

Samnites, though in circumstances so accordant to their

wishes, instantly determine how to act: it was therefore

universally agreed that Herennius Pontius, father of the

general, should be consulted by letter. He was now

grown feeble through age, and had withdrawn himself,

not only from all military, but also from all civil occu­

pations ; yet, notwithstanding the decline of his bodily

strength, his mind retained its full vigor. When he

was informed that the Roman armies were shut up at

the Caudine forks, between the two glens, and was

asked for advice by his son's messenger, he gave his

opinion that they should all be immediately dismissed

from thence unhurt. On this counsel being rejected,

and the same messenger returning to advise with him-

a second time, he recommended that they should all,

to a man, be put to death. On receiving these answers,

so opposite to each other, like the ambiguous responses

