HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK VIII. G5

first onset, nor the standards moved either forward or

backward, nor any ground lost on either side. They

fought without taking breath, every man in his post,

and pushing agaiust their, opponents with their shields.

The Doise continuing equal, and the terror of the fight

the same, seemed to denote that the decision would be

effected either by fatigue or by the night. The men

had now exhausted their strength, the sword its power,

and the leaders their skill; when, on a sudden, the

Samnite cavalry, having learned from a single troop

which had advanced beyond the rest that the baggage

of the Romans lay at a distance from their army, with­

out any guard or defence, eager for booty, they has­

tened to attack it: of which the dictator being informed

by a hasty messenger, said, ' Let them alone ; let them

incumber themselves with spoils.' Afterwards came

several, one after another, crying out that they were

plundering and carrying off all the effects of the sol­

diers : he then called to him the master of the horse,

and said, ' Do you see, Marcus Fabius, that the ene­

my's cavalry have forsaken the fight ? They are en­

tangled and incumbered with our baggage. Attack

them : you will find them, as is the case of every mul­

titude employed in plundering, scattered about; few

mounted on horseback, few with swords in their hands;

and, while they are loading their horses with spoil,

and unarmed, put them to the sword, and make it

bloody spoil for them. I will take care of the legions

and the fight of the infantry; yours be the honor which

the horse shall acquire.'

39. The body of cavalry, in the most exact order

possible, charging the enemy, who were straggling and

embarrassed, filled every place with slaughter; for the

packages which they hastily threw down, and which

lay in the way of their feet, and of the affrighted horses,

as they endeavored to escape, made them unable either

to fight or fly. Then Fabius, after he had almost in-

tirely cut off the enemy's horse, led round his squadrons

in a small circuit, and attacked the infantry in the rear.

The new shout raised in that quarter terrified the Sam-

LIV. VOL. III. E

