HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK VIII. 25

your authority? You may utterly destroy all La-

tium, and make a desert of a country, from which, in

many and difficult wars, you have often been supplied

with a powerful army of allies. Do you choose, on

the contrary, and in conformity to the practice of your

ancestors, to augment the Roman state, by receiving

the vanquished into the number of your citizens !

Here is a large addition which you may acquire, by

means which will redound most highly to your glory.

That government which the subjects feel happy in

obeying stands certainly on the firmest of all founda­

tions. But whatever your determination may be, it is

necessary that it be speedy ; as all those 'states are,

at present, suspended between hope and fear. It is

therefore of importance that you should be discharged

as soon as possible from all solicitude concerning

them ; and also that, either by punishment or cle­

mency, an immediate impression be made on their

minds, before they recover from the state of insensi­

bility into which the uncertainty of their fate has

thrown them. It was our part to bring the business

to such an issue that your deliberations concerning it

should be unrestrained in every particular. It is now

yours to determine what is most advantageous to your­

selves and the commonwealth.'

14. The principal members of the senate highly ap­

proved of the consul's statement of the business, on

the whole ; but said, that ' as the states were differently

circumstanced, it would conduce to an easy adjustment

of the plan, so as that their resolutions should be con­

formable to the several merits of each, if he put the

question on the case of each state separately.' The

question was accordingly put, and a decree passed

with respect to each singly. The Lauuvians were ad­

mitted members of the state; the exercise of their pub­

lic worship was restored to them, with a provision that

the grove and temple of Juno Sospita should be in

common between the burghers1 of Lanuvium and the

1 Of the conquered countries the Romans constituted some

