184 LIVY.

honor, the merits of Fabius were so great towards the

commonwealth, and towards himself in particular, that

he would gladly contribute to the advancement of his

reputation, in every instance where its splendor could

be increased without reflecting dishonor on himself.

But who did not see that, when a war of difficulty and

danger, and out of the ordinary course, was committed

to only that one consul, the other would be considered

as useless and insignificant? Fabius gloried in his ex­

ploits performed in Etruria: Publius Decius wished

for a like subject of glory, and perhaps would utterly

extinguish that fire, which the other left smothered, in

such a manner that it often broke out anew in sudden

conflagrations. In fine, honors and rewards he would

concede to his colleague, out of respect to his age and

dignified character: but when danger, when a vigorous

struggle with an enemy was before them, he never did,

nor ever would, willingly give place. With respect to

the present dispute, this much he would gain at all

events, that a business appertaining to the jurisdiction

of the people should be determined by an order of that

people, and not complimented away by the senate. He

prayed Jupiter, supremely good and great, and all the

immortal gods, not to grant him an equal chance with

his colleague, unless they intended to grant him equal

ability and success in the management of the war. It

was certainly in its nature reasonable, in the example

salutary, and concerned the reputation of the Roman

people, that the consuls should be men of such abili­

ties, that either of them was fully equal to the com­

mand iu a war with Etruria.' Fabius, after just re­

questing of the people that before the tribes were called

in to give their votes they would hear the letters of

the pretor Appius Claudius, written from Etruria,

withdrew from the Comitium, and the people, not less

unanimously than the senate, decreed to him the pro­

vince of Etruria, without having recourse to lots.

25. Immediately almost all the younger citizens

flocked together to the consul, and cheerfully gave in

their names, earnestly desirous of serving under such

