HISTORY OF ROME.— BOOK VIII. 57

whoever he might approve as an associate with him­

self in the command, chose that very man in prefer­

ence to all the other consular tribunes. Nay, the body

of the people themselves, whose power is supreme in

every case, never suffered their passions to carry them

to greater severity, even towards those who, through

rashness and ignorance, had occasioned the I09S of

armies, than the fining them a sum of money. Until

that day a capital prosecution for ill conduct in war

had never been instituted against any commander, but

now, generals of the Roman people, after gaining the

most splendid victories, and meriting the most honor­

able triumphs, are threatened with rods and axes ; a

treatment which would not have been deemed allow­

able, even towards those who had been defeated by an

enemy. What degree of punishment would his son

have been liable to, if he had occasioned the loss of

the army ? if he had been put to fight, and driven out

of his camp? Could the dictator stretch his resentment

and violence to- any greater length than to scourge

him, and put him to death? How was it consistent

with reason that, through the means of Quintus Fa-

bius, the state should be filled with joy, exulting in

victory, and occupied in thanksgivings and congratu­

lations ; while, at the same time, he who had given

occasion to the temples of the gods being thrown open,

their altars yet smoking with sacrifices, and loaded

with honors and offerings, should be stripped naked,

and torn with stripes in the sight of the Roman peo­

ple, within view of the capitol and citadel, and of

those gods, whose aid he had so successfully invoked

in two different battles? With what temper would

such proceedings be borne by the army which had

conquered under his conduct and auspices ? What

mourning would there be in the Roman camp; what

joy among their enemies V This speech he accompa­

nied with an abundant flow of tears; uniting re­

proaches and complaints, imploring the aid both of

gods and men, and warmly embracing his son.'

34. On his side stood the majesty of the senate, the

