HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK VIM. 31

diligence than would have been deemed requisite in

the case of war with any neighboring state, intelligence

was brought, by scouts despatched for the purpose,

that all was quiet among the Gauls. Suspicions were

also entertained that Samnium still continued, during

this year, in a disposition to raise new disturbances;

for which reason the Roman troops were not withdrawn

from the country of the Sidicinians. An attack made

by Alexander, king of Epirus, on the Lucanians, drew

the Samnites to that quarter, where those two nations,

fought a pitched battle with the king as he was making

a descent on the side of the country adjoining Paestum.

Alexander, having gained the victory, concluded a

treaty of amity with the Romans ; with what degree of

faith he would have observed it, had the rest of his

enterprises proved successful, it is hard to say. The

census, or general survey, was performed this year,

and the new citizens rated; on whose account two ad­

ditional tribes were constituted, the Maician and Scap-

tian, by the censors, Quintus Publilius Philo and

Spurius Postumius. The Acerrans were inrolled as

Romans, in pursuance of a law introduced by the pre-

tor, Lucius Papirius, which granted them the privi­

leges of citizens, excepting the right of suffrage. Such

were the transactions, foreign and domestic, of this

year.

18. The following year [A. U. C. 423. B.C. 329]

exhibited a shocking scene, whether occasioned by the

intemperature of the air or by the wickedness of the

people. The consuls were Marcus Claudius Marcel-

lus, and Caius Valerius, either Flaccus or Potitus, for

I find these different surnames of the consul in the an­

nals ; it is however a matter of little consequence

which of them be the true one. There is another ac­

count, which I could heartily wish were false ; that

those persons whose deaths distinguished this year as

disastrous on account of the extraordinary mortality

were cut off by poison. Although this particular be

not mentioned by all the historians of this period, yet,

that I may not detract from the credit of any writer, I

