260 LIVY.

to distribute the lands, doubting their safety within the

walls of Placentia, fled to Mutina. These were Caius

Lutatius, Caius Servilius, and Titus Annius. There

is no doubt about the name of Lutatius ; but some an­

nals, instead of Caius Servilius and Titus Annius, have

Quintus Acilius and Caius Herennius: others, Eub-

lius Cornelius Asina, and Caius Papirius Maso. There

is also an uncertainty whether ambassadors, sent to

expostulate with the Boians, suffered violence, or

whether the ill treatment was offered to the commis­

sioners who were measuring out the lands. While

they were shut up in Mutina, and the besiegers, a peo­

ple quite unskilled in the arts of attacking towns, and

remarkably lazy with respect to all military opera­

tions, lay inactive round the walls, which they could

not injure, a pretended treaty for an accommodation

was set on foot, and the ambassadors being invited out

to a conference by the chiefs of the Gauls, were, in

violation not only of the laws of nations, but of the

faith pledged on the occasion, seized and put into con­

finement, the Gauls declaring that they would not set

them at liberty unless their own hostages were re­

turned to them. On hearing of this treatment of the

ambassadors, and the danger which threatened Mutina

and the garrison, Lucius Manlius, the pretor, inflamed

with resentment, led his army in a rapid march to­

wards that city. The ground, on both sides of the

road, was at that time covered with woods, and. mostly

uninhabited. Advancing into these places, without

having examined the country, he fell into an ambush,

and with much difficulty, after losing a great number

of men, made his way into the open plains. Here be

fortified a camp, which the Gauls not having resolu­

tion to attack, the soldiers recovered their spirits,

though it was evident that their strength was greatly

diminished: they then began their march anew, and,

as long as their road lay through open grounds, the

enemy never appeared ; but falling on their rear, when

the Romans again entered the woods, they threw ali

into fright and confusion, slew eight hundred soldiers,

