HISTORY OF ROME.— BOOK VIII. 41

the consul in the camp. Who did not plainly perceive

that the dictator's being a plebeian was the defect

which the augurs had discovered?' These, and other

arguments, were urged in vain by the tribunes: the

affair ended in an interregnum. At last, after the

elections had been adjourned repeatedly, on one pre­

text or another, the fourteenth interrex, Lucius jEmi-

lius, elected consuls Caius Petilius and Lucius Papi-

rius Mugillanus, or Cursor, as I find him named in some

annals. [A.U.C. 429. B.C. 323.]

24. Historians relate that, in this year, Alexandria

in Egypt was founded; and that Alexander, king of

Epirus, being slain by a Lucanian exile, verified, in

the circumstances of his death, the prediction of Jupiter

of Dodona. At the time when he was invited into Italy

by the Tarentines he received a caution from that ora­

cle, to beware of the Acherusian waters, and the city

Pandosia, for there were fixed the limits of bis destiny:

for that reason he made the greater haste to pass over

to Italy, in order to be at as great a distance as pos­

sible from the city Pandosia in Epirus, and the river

Acheron, which, after flowing through Molossis, wins

into the lakes called Infernal, and is received into the

Thesprotian gulf. But, as it frequently happens that

men, by endeavoring to shun their fate, run directly

on it, after having often defeated the armies of Brut-

tium and Lucania, and taken Heraclea, a colony of the

Tarentines, Potentia, and Metapontum from the Luca-

nians, Terina from the Bruttians, and several other

cities of the Messapians and Lucanians; and having

sent into Epirus three hundred illustrious families,

whom he intended to keep as hostages, he posted his

troops on three hills, which stood at a small distance

from each other, not far from the city Pandosia, and

close to the frontiers of the Bruttians and Lucanians, in

order that he might thence make incursions into every

part of the enemy's country. At that time he kept

about his person two hundred Lucanian exiles, whom

he considered as faithful attendants, but whose fidelity,

according to the general disposition of people of that

description, was ever ready to follow the changes of

