HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXI. 293

Lilybaeum and all the maritime states were exposed to

imminent danger, he informed him that there were

many to whom a revolution would be highly agreeable:

for these reasons the consul judged that he ought with­

out making any delay, to sail on directly to Lilybaeum,

whither he was accompanied by the king and his fleet.

On their passage they received the news of the fight of

Lilybaeum, of the discomfiture of the enemy, and the

capture of their ships.

. 51. From Lilybaeum the consul, after dismissing

king Hiero with his fleet, and leaving the pretor to

defend the coast of Sicily, sailed over to the island of

Melita, which was in the possession of the Carthagi­

nians. Immediately on his arrival, Hamilcar, son of

Gisgo, commander of the garrison, and somewhat less

than two thousand soldiers, together with the town

and the island, were surrendered into his hands. From

thence he returned in a few days to Lilybaeum, where

all the prisoners taken by the consul, and by the pre­

tor, except those who were of distinguished birth,

were sold by public auction. When the consul thought

that side of Sicily sufficiently secured, he sailed over

to the islands of Vulcan, because there was a report

that the Carthaginian fleet lay there ; but he met with

none at those islands, for it happened that they had

already passed over to ravage the coast of Italy, and,

after laying waste the territory of Vibo, were now

threatening that city. When he was on his return to

Sicily, he was informed of the descent made by the

enemy on the territory of Vibo. Letters were at the

same time delivered to him from the senate, containing

an account of Hannibal's having entered Italy, and

also orders to come to the support of his colleague

with all possible expedition. So many objects de­

manding his attention at once, he instantly embarked

his troops, and sent them by the upper sea to Arimi-

num ; appointed Sextus Pomponius, lieutenant-gene­

ral, with twenty ships of war, to defend the territory

of Vibo and the sea-coast of Italy; made up a fleet

