200 LIVY.

snare. He ordered two divisions of the confederate

Latine horse to ride round the walls, and explore

every particular. These horsemen observed one gate,

and, at a little distance, another on the same side,

standing wide open, and on the roads leading from

these, every mark of the enemy having fled by night.

They then rode up leisurely to the gates, from whence

with perfect safety they took a clear view through

strait streets quite across the city. Returning to the

consul, they told him that the city was abandoned by

the enemy, as was plain from the solitude, the tracks

on their retreat, and the things which, in the confusion

of the night, they had left scattered up and down.

On hearing this, the consul led round the army to that

side of the city which had been examined, and, making

the troops halt at a little distance from the gate, gave .

orders that five horsemen should ride into the city ;

and, when they should have advanced a good way into

it, then, if they saw all things safe, three should re­

main there, and the other two return to him with in­

telligence. These returned, and said that they had

proceeded to a part of the town from which they had a

view on every side, and that nothing but silence and

solitude reigned through the whole extent of it. The

consul immediately led some light-armed cohorts into

the city, ordering the rest to fortify a camp in the

mean time. The soldiers who entered the town, break­

ing open the doors, found only a few persons disabled

by age or sickness, and such effects remaining as

could not without difficulty be removed. These were

seized as plunder: and it was discovered from the pri­

soners that several cities in that quarter had, in pur­

suance of a concerted plan, resolved on flight; that

their townspeople had gone off at the first watch, and

they believed that the same solitude would be found

in the other places. The accounts of the prisoner*

proved well founded, and the consul took possession

of the forsaken towns.

35. The other consul, Marcus Atilins, met much

greater difficulties in the war wherein he was engaged.

