21 LIVY.

happened, occasioned principally by a sudden erilp»

tion of the townsmen during the fight: but Camillus,

making part of his troops face about, not only drove

them within the walls, but, after utterly discomfiting

both themselves and their allies, took the city the

same day by scalade. It was then resolved, their

troops being flushed with victory, that they should

proceed until they had made an intire conquest of all

Latium. This plan they prosecuted without intermis­

sion, making themselves masters of some of the towns

by force, and of others by capitulation, reducing the

intire country to subjection. Then leaving garrisons

in the conquered places, they returned to Rome to en­

joy the triumph to which all men allowed they were

justly intitled. To a triumph was added the honor of

having equestrian statues erected to them in the fo­

rum, a compliment very rare in that age. Before the

assembly for electing consuls was called for the en­

suing year, Camillus moved the senate to take into

consideration the conduct to be observed towards the

states of Latium, and proceeded in this manner: ' Con­

script fathers, whatever was to be eflected in Latium

by means of arms and military operations has now,

through the favor of the gods, and the valor of your

soldiers, been fully accomplished. The armies of our

enemies have been cut to pieces at Pedum and the

Astura ; all the towns of Latium and Antium in the

Volscian territory, either taken by storm or surren­

dered, are held by your garrisons. It remains then

to be considered, since the frequent rebellious of these

people are the cause of so much trouble, by what

means we may secure their quiet submission and

peaceable behavior. The attainment of this end the

immortal gods have placed within your reach, inso­

much that they have given you the power of deter­

mining whether Latium shall longer exist or not. You

can therefore insure to yourselves perpetual peace, as

far as regards the Latines, by the means either of se­

verity or of mercy. Do you choose to adopt cruel

measures against people vanquished, and submitting to

