HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK IX. 87

the assailants; a crier was heard proclaiming, that

' whoever laid down his arms might retire in safety.'

This relaxed their eagerness in the fight, and they

began almost every where to avail themselves of it.

A part, more determined however, retaining their arms,

rnshed out by the opposite gate, and found greater

safety in their boldness, than the others from the cre­

dulity inspired by their fears ; for the Samnites sur­

rounded the latter with fires, and burned them all to

death, while they made vain appeals to the faith of

gods and men. The consuls having settled the pro­

vinces between them, Papirius proceeded into Apulia

to Luceria, where the Roman horsemen, given as host­

ages to Caudium, were kept in custody : Publilius

remained in Samnium to oppose the Caudine legions.

This proceeding perplexed the minds of the Samnites :

they could not safely determine either to go to Luceria,

lest the enemy should press on their rear ; or to remain

where they were, lest in the mean time Luceria should

be lost. They concluded therefore that it would be most

advisable to trust to the decision of fortune, and to

try the issue of a battle with Publilius: accordingly

they drew out their forces into the field.

13. When Publilius was about to engage, he thought

it proper to address his soldiers; and accordingly he

ordered an assembly to be summoned. But though

they ran together to the general's quarters with the

greatest alacrity, yet so loud were their clamors, de­

manding the fight, that none of the general's exhorta­

tions were heard: each man's own reflections on the

late disgrace were sufficient to determine them. They

advanced therefore to battle, urging the standard-

bearers to hasten; and lest in beginning the conflict

there should be any delay by reason that javelins were

less easily wielded than swords, they threw away the

former, as if a signal to that purpose had been given,

and drawing the latter, rushed in full speed on the foe.

The general had little opportunity of showing his skill

in forming ranks or reserves; the ungoverned troops

performed all, with a degree of fury little inferior to

