164 LIVY.

the greater part of the day, while very many fell on

both sides; and night came on before it could be disco­

vered to which side victory inclined. But the follow­

ing dawn showed the conqueror and the vanquished;

for the Etrurians had decamped in the dead of the

night. The Romans, marching out with intent to re­

new the engagement, and seeing their superiority ac-

knowleged by the departure of the enemy, advanced to

their camp; and, finding even this fortified post de­

serted, took possession of it, together with a vast

quantity of spoil. The consul then, leading back his

forces into the Faliscian territory, and leaving his

baggage with a small guard at Falerii, set out with his

troops, lightly accoutred, to ravage the enemy's coun­

try : and not only was the ground laid waste, but their

forts also and smaller towns were destroyed by fire.

He did not, however, lay siege to the cities, into which

the Etrurians had been hurried by their fears. The

other consul, Fulvius, fought the Samnites at Bovia-

num, where he gained great honor, and a complete

victory. Then attacking the town, and soon after Au-

fidena, he took both by assault. This year a colony

was carried out to Carseoli, in the territory of the

jEquicolae. The consul Fulvius triumphed on his de­

feat of the Samnites.

13. Shortly before the election of consuls a report

prevailed that the Etrurians and Samnites were raising

vast armies; that the leaders of the Etrurians were, in

all their assemblies, openly censured for not having

procured the aid of the Gauls on any terms ; and the

magistrates of the Samnites arraigned, for having op­

posed to the Romans an army destined to act against

the Lucanians. That, in consequence, the people were

rising up in arms, with all their own strength and that

of their allies combined ; and that this affair seemed

not likely to be terminated without a contest of much

greater difficulty than the former. Although the candi­

dates for the consulship were men of illustrious cha­

racters, yet this alarming intelligence turned the

thoughts of all on Quintus Fabius Maximus, who

