192 LIVY.

same spot should be accomplished his perdition and

that of the Gauls and Sanitates.' After uttering these

execrations on himself and the foe, he spurred forward

his horse where he saw the line of the Gauls thickest,

and, rushing on the enemy's weapons, met his death.

29. Thenceforward the battle seemed to be fought

with a degree of force which could scarcely be deemed

human. The Romans, on the loss of their general, a

circumstance which on other occasions is wont to in­

spire terror, stopped their flight, and reassumed spirit

to begin the combat afresh. The Gauls, and espe­

cially those who encircled the consul's body, as if de­

prived of reason, cast their javelins at random without

execution ; some became so stupid as not to think of

either fighting or flying : while on the other side, Li-

vius the pontiff, to whom Decius had transferred his

lictors, with ord'ers to act as propretor, cried out aloud

that ' the Romans were victorious, being exempted

from misfortune by the death of their consul. That

the Gauls and Sanmites were now the victims of Mo­

ther Earth, and the infernal gods. That Decius was

summoning and dragging to himself the army devoted

along with him ; and that among the enemy all was

full of dismay, and the vengeance of all the furies.'

While the soldiers were busy in restoring the fight,

they were joined by Lucius Cornelius Scipio and Caius

Marcius, with some reserved troops from the rear,

who had been sent by Quintus Fabius, the consul, to

the support of his colleague. These, on being made

acquainted with the fate of Decius, were powerfully

excited to brave every danger in the cause of the pub­

lic ; but as the Gauls stood in close order, with their

shields formed into a fence before them, little prospect

of success appeared from a close fight. The javelins

which lay scattered between the two lines were, there­

fore, by order of the lieutenants-general, gathered up

from the ground, and thrown against the enemy's

shields ; and as most of them pierced the fence, the

long-pointed ones even into their bodies, their com­

pact band was overthrown in such a manner, that a

