HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK VIII. 61

arrival, or little regarding whether he were present or

absent, they marched out in order of battle. Of such

importance however was that single man, Lucius Pa-

pirius, that, had the zeal of the soldiers seconded the

dispositions of the commander, no doubt was enter­

tained that an end might have been put that day to the

war with the Samnites. He chose the best possible

position for his troops, posted his body of reserve most

judiciously, and strengthened them with every advan­

tage which military skill could devise'; but the sol­

diers exerted no vigor, and designedly kept from con­

quering, in order to injure the reputation of their

leader. Of the Samnites, however, very many were

slain; and great numbers of the Romans wounded.

The experienced commander quickly perceived the cir­

cumstance which prevented his success, and that it

would be necessary to moderate his temper, and to

mingle mildness with austerity. Accordingly, attended

by the lieutenants-general, he went round to the tents

of the wounded soldiers, inquiring of each the state of

his health; then, mentioning them by name, he gave

them in charge to the officers, tribunes, and prefects,

recommending them to their particular care. This be­

havior, popular in itself, he maintained with such dex­

terity, that by his attention to their recovery he gra­

dually gained their affection; nor did any thing so

much contribute towards their recovery as the grati­

tude excited by this humane condescension. As soon

as the men were restored to health he came to an en­

gagement with the enemy; and both himself and the

troops being possessed with full confidence of success,

he so intirely defeated and dispersed the Samnites, that

they never after that day met the dictator in the field.

The victorious army afterwards directed its march

wherever a prospect of booty invited, and traversed

their territories without a weapon being raised against

them, or any opposition given, either openly or by

stratagem. It added to their alacrity that the dictator

had, by proclamation, given the whole spoil to the

soldiers; so that they were animated not only by the

