298 LIVY.

the cavalry, being full of confidence in that part of his

force; then six thousand foot; and, at last, the whole

body of infantry, to the ground previously fixed on in

the plan which he had adopted. It was then winter,

and the weather snowy, in Whose places which lie be­

tween the Alps and the Apennines; and the cold was

rendered exceedingly intense by the proximity of ri­

vers and marshes. Besides this,' both men and horses

being drawn out in a hurry, without having first taken

food, or used any precaution to guard against the in-

temperature of the air, were quite chilled; and as they

approached the river, the more piercing were the blasts

which assailed them. But having, in pursuit of the

flying' Numidians, entered the river, which, by rain in

the night, was swelled so high as to reach their breasts,

their bodies, on coming out, were all so perfectly be­

numbed, that they were scarcely capable of holding

their arms; and, as the day advanced, they also grew

faint through hunger.

55. Meanwhile Hannibal's soldiers had fires made

before their tents; oil was distributed to every com­

pany to lubricate their joints, and they had at leisure

refreshed themselves with food. As soon therefore as

intelligence was brought that the enemy had passed

tbe river, they took arms with sprightly vigor both of

mind and body, and thus advanced to battle. Hanni­

bal placed in the van the Balearians and light-armed

troops, amounting to about eight thousand; and, in a

second line, his heavier armed infantry, the main power

and strength of his army. The flanks he covered with

ten thousand cavalry ; and, dividing the elephants,

placed half of them on the extremity of each wing.

The consul seeing his cavalry, who pressed the pursuit

with disorderly haste, taken at a disadvantage by the

Numidians suddenly turning on them, recalled them

by the signal for retreat, and posted them on the flanks

of the foot. His army consisted of eighteen thousand

Romans, twenty thousand of the allies and Latine con­

federates, besides the auxiliary troops of the Cenoma-

