202 LIVY.

but, doubting their ability to repel the Carthaginian

from the country on the hither side, in order to avail

themselves of the river as a defence, they had trans­

ported almost all their effects beyond it, and were

ready in arms to defend the opposite bank. Hannibal,

' by means of presents, prevailed on the inhabitants of

the other districts contiguous to the river, and even on

those of that very state who stayed in their own habi­

tations, to collect ships from every quarter, and to

build others ; themselves being desirous that his army

should be transported, and their country freed, aa

speedily as might be, from the burden of such a mul­

titude of men. A vast number of vessels therefore

were brought together, and of boats rudely constructed

for the purpose of short passages. Others were formed

by hollowing single trees, the Gauls first showing the

way; and afterwards the soldiers themselves, encou­

raged by the plenty of timber, and likewise by the

easiness of the work, hastily formed clumsy hulks to

transport themselves and their effects, regardless of

every other circumstance, provided they would but

float, and contain a burden.

27. And now, when all preparatory measures for ef­

fecting their passage were completed, the enemy, on

the farther side, threatened them with a violent oppo-

. sition, covering the whole bank with horse and foot.

But in order to remove these out of his way, Hanni­

bal ordered Hanno, son of Bomilcar, to set out by

night, at the first watch, with a body of forces com­

posed mostly of Spaniards, to march up the river to

the distance of one day's journey, and then crossing it,

as secretly as possible, to lead round his detachment

with all expedition, that he might fall on the rear of

the enemy when so required. The Gauls, who were

given him as guides on the occasion, informed him

that, at the distance of about twenty-five miles above

that place, the river, spreading round a small island,

showed the passage, where it divided itself, broader,

and the channel consequently shallower. At this place,

felling timber with the utmost haste, they formed rafts

