HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK XXI. 283

quired and ama&sed, in consequence of their numerous

triumphs, the whole of this, together with the owners,

is to become your property. Animated, then, by the

prospect of so rich a spoil, take arms, with the favor of

the gods. You have been hitherto employed in the

pursuit of cattle through the waste mountains of Lusi-

tania and Celtiberia, without any prospect of emolu­

ment from so many toils and dangers. It is now time

to make profitable and rich campaigns ; and that, after

measuring such a length of way, through so many

mountains and rivers, and so many armed nations, you

be at last abundantly rewarded for your labor. Here

Fortune has fixed the period of your toils; here, on

your finishing your course of service, will she give

you ample retribution. And do not imagine the vic­

tory to be as difficult as the character of the war is

important. Often has a despised enemy maintained a

bloody contest, and renowned nations and kings been

vanquished by exertions of very moderate force : for,

setting aside singly the present splendor of the Ro­

man name, in what one particular are they to be com­

pared with you? Not to mention your service, for the

last twenty years, performed with so great bravery

and so great success, you have effected a march to this

place from the pillars of Hercules, from the ocean, and

the remotest limits of the world ; opening your way,

with your victorious arms, through so many of the

fiercest nations of Spain and Gaul. You will now

fight with an army of raw troops, who during this very

summer were beaten, routed, and besieged by the

Gauls; who, as yet, neither know nor are known by

their commanders. Ought I, if not born, at least edu­

cated, in the very tent of that most illustrious general

my father; I, who have subdued both Spain and

Gaul; the conqueror, likewise, not only of the Alpine

tribes, but what is much more, of the Alps them­

selves ; ought I to put myself in comparison with such

a commander as theirs; a general of six months'

standing, who ran away from his own army; to whom,

