HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK IX. 107

soldiers, through steep and almost impassable ways,

into the citadel, where a quantity of missive weapons

had heen collected, larger than bore proportion to the

number of men. There were stones, besides ; some

lying at random, as in all craggy places, and others

heaped up by the townsmen, to add to the security of

the place. Having posted the Romans here, and shown

them a steep and narrow path leading up from the

town to the citadel, * From this ascent,' said he, ' even

three armed men would keep off any multitude what­

ever. Now you are ten in number; and, what is more,

Romans, and the bravest among the Romans. The

night is in your favor; which, by concealing the real

state of things, magnifies every object to people when

once alarmed. I will immediately fill every place with

terror: be you alert in defending the citadel.' He

then ran down in haste, crying aloud, ' To arms, citi­

zens ; we are undone ; the citadel is taken by the ene­

my ; run, defend it.' This he repeated as he passed

the doors of the principal men ; the same to all whom

he met; and also to those who ran out in a fright into

the streets. The alarm, communicated first by one,

was soon spread by numbers through all the city.

The magistrates, dismayed on hearing from scouts that

the citadel was full of arms and armed men, whose

number they multiplied, laid aside all hopes of reco­

vering it. Flight began on every side ; and the towns­

men, half asleep, and for the most part unarmed, broke

open the gates, through one of which the body of Ro­

man troops, roused by the noise, burst in, and slew

the terrified inhabitants who attempted to skirmish in

the streets. Sora was now taken, when, at the first

light, the consuls arrived, and accepted the surrender

of those whom Fortune had left remaining after the

flight and slaughter of the night. Of these, they con­

veyed in chains to Rome two hundred and twenty-five,

whom all men agreed in pointing out as the authors

both of the revolt and also of the horrid massacre of

the colonists. The rest were left in safety at Sora,

where they placed a garrison. All those who were

