HISTORY OF ROME.—BOOK IX. 135

41. Fabius, in consideration of his extraordinary

merit in the conquest of Etruria, was re-elected into

the consulship. [A.U.C. 445. B.C. 307.] Decius was

appointed his colleague. Valerius was created pretor

a fourth time. The consuls divided the provinces be­

tween them. Etruria fell to Decius ; Samnium to Fa-

bins. The latter, having marched to Nuceria, rejected

the application of the people of Alfaterna, who then

sued for peace, because they had not accepted it when

offered, and by force of arms compelled them to sur­

render. A battle was fought with the Samnites, who

were overcome without much difficulty: nor would the

memory of that engagement have been preserved, ex­

cept that in it the Marsians first appeared in arms

against the Romans. The defection of the Marsians

was followed by that of the Pelignians, who met the

same fate. The other consul, Decius, was likewise

very successful in his operations : through the terror

with which he inspired the Tarquinians, he compelled

them to supply his army with corn, and to sue for a

truce for forty years. He took several forts from the

Volsinians by assault; some of which he demolished,

that they might not serve as receptacles to the enemy;

and, by extending his operations through every quar­

ter, diffused such a dread of ljis arms, that the whole

Etrurian nation sued to him for an alliance: this they

did not obtain; but a truce for a year was granted

them. The pay of the Roman army for that year was

furnished by the enemy; and two tunics for each sol­

dier were exacted from them : this was the purchase

of the truce. The tranquillity now established in Etru­

ria was interrupted by a sudden insurrection of the

Umbrians, a nation which had suffered no injury from

the war, except what inconvenience the country had

felt in the passing of the army. These, by calling into

the field all their young men, and forcing a great part

of the Etrurians to resume their arms, made up such a

numerous force, that speaking of themselves with os­

tentatious vanity, and of the Romans with contempt,

they boasted that they would leave Decius behind in

