'>4t LIVY.

embassy be sent, to make restitution to the Saguntines.'

When Hanno had ended his discourse, there was no

occasion for any one to enter into a debate with him,

so intirely were almost the whole body of the senate in

the interest of Hannibal, and they blamed him as hav­

ing spoken with greater acrimony than even Valerius

Flaccus, the Roman ambassador. They then answered

the Roman ambassadors that ' the war had been begun

by the Saguntines, not by Hannibal; and that the Ro­

man people acted unjustly and unwisely, if they pre­

ferred the interest of the Saguntines to that of the Car­

thaginians, their earliest allies.'

11. While the Romans wasted time in sending em­

bassies, Hannibal finding his soldiers fatigued with

fighting and labor, gave them a few days to rest, ap­

pointing parties to guard the machines and works. This

interval he employed in reanimating his men, stimu­

lating them at one time with resentment against the

enemy, at another, with hope of rewards; but a decla-'

ration which he made in open assembly that, on the

capture of the city, the spoil should be given to the

soldiers, inflamed them with such ardor that, to all ap­

pearance, if the signal had been given immediately, no

force could have withstood them. The Saguntines, as

they had for some days enjoyed a respite from fighting,

neither offering nor sustaining an attack, so they had

never ceased, either by day or night, to labor hard in

raising a new wall, in that part where the city had been

left exposed by the fall of the old one. After this the

operations of the besiegers were carried on with much

greater briskness than before ; nor could the besieged -

well judgej whilst all places resounded with clamors of

various kinds, to what side they should first send suc­

cor, or where it was most necessary. Hannibal at­

tended in person, to encourage a party of his men who

were bringing forward a movable tower, which ex­

ceeded in height all the fortifications of the city. As

soon as this had reached the proper distance, and had,

by means of the engines for throwing darts and stones,

disposed in all its stories, cleared the ramparts of all

