140 LIVY.

The shout which reached the post of Cornelius, with

the dust observed at a distance, excited a bustle and

hurry in his camp. Ordering his men instantly to

arms, and leading them out to the field with the utmost

haste, he charged the flank of the enemy's line, which

had enough to do in the other dispute, at the same time

exclaiming, that ' it would be the height of infamy if

they suffered Marcius' army to monopolise the honor

of both victories, and did not assert their claim to the

glory of their own war.' He bore down all before

him, and pushed forward, through the midst of the

enemy's line, to their camp, which, being left without

a guard, he took and set on fire ; and the flames of it

being seen by the soldiers of Marcius, and likewise by

the enemy on their looking about, a general flight im­

mediately took place among the Samnites. But they

could not effect an escape in any direction; in every

quarter they met death. After a slaughter of thirty

thousand men, the consuls had now given the signal for

retreat; and were collecting into one body their several

forces, who were employed in mutual congratulations,

when some new cohorts of the enemy, which had been

levied for a reinforcement, being seen at a distance, oc­

casioned a renewal of the carnage. On these the con­

querors rushed, without any order of the consuls, or

signal received, crying out that they would give these

Samnites an introduction to service, which they would

not like. The consuls indulged the ardor of the le­

gions, well knowing that raw troops mixed with vete­

rans dispirited by defeat would be incapable even of

attempting a contest. Nor were they wrong in their

judgment: all the forces of the Samnites, old and new,

fled to the nearest mountains. These the Roman army

also ascended, so that no situation afforded safety to

the vanquished; they were beaten off, even from the

summits which they had seized. And now, they all,

with one voice, supplicated for a suspension of arms.

On which, being ordered to furnish corn for three

months, pay for a year, and a tunic to each of the sol­

diers, they sent deputies to the senate to sue for peace.

