PRELIMINARY REMARKS. 241

ignorance of their real character and history, as a distinct and isolated

people, led him into many errors. Yet some rays of truth may be seen

gleaming through nearly all his mistakes, and confirmation of the sacred

records may be gathered from all his apparent contradictions. The true

account of their origin is given in connection with several other traditionary

tales (5, 2). The Exodus from Egypt, the journey through the wilderness,

some of the miracles even of Moses are recorded (chap. 3), not as they were,

but as they would come to the ears and appear to the eye of a foreigner

and a Roman. The rite of circumcision, the abstinence from swine's flesh,

the use of unleavened bread, the observance of the seventh day as the sab­

bath, and the seventh year as a year of rest—all these peculiar features of

the Jewish religion are recognised, and referred to their supposed and some­

times their real cause (chap. 4, 5). Our author declares their belief in the

immortality of the soul and a future state of rewards and punishments, and

gives a sublime description of the one God of the Jews, and the purely

spiritual worship which they paid to him (chap. 5), so unlike at once to the

polytheism and the idolatry of all the rest of the world, and so unaccount­

able, except on the supposition of special divine teaching. His geography

and topography of the country lead him to notice (chap. 7) the plains of

Sodom, the tradition touching the destruction of the once wealthy and popu­

lous cities of the plain by fire from heaven, and the utter emptiness of the

fruits of the earth in that region, so strikingly alluded to in sacred writ,

and hence proverbial to this day, as the apples of Sodom and the clusters of

Gomorrah.

But the Christian will regard with the greatest interest the confirmation

which Tacitus unwittingly furnishes to the fulfilment of prophecy, in the ex­

pected coming of the Messiah and in the circumstances attending the destruc­

tion of Jerusalem. He informs us that the Jews cherished a lively expecta­

tion, which was derived from prophecies contained in their sacred books, and

which all their calamities could not extinguish, that at this very juncture
the

power of the East would prevail over the nations, and a race of men would go

forth from Judaea to extend their dominion over the rest of the world (5,13).

Moreover he gives a graphic picture of those signs and wonders in the heavens

above and in the earth beneath, which our Lord predicted should attend the

destruction of Jerusalem and its holy temple (Matt. 24, Luke 21)—swords

gleaming in the air, embattled armies performing their evolutions in mid-

heaven, strange sights and supernatural sounds in the temple, and the like

portentous omens of the approaching ruin of the city. It is not easy to say,

whether Christianity is more illustrated and confirmed by this historical
notice

of the general expectation of a mighty king and conqueror from the East,

which had been nourished by ancient prophecies of the Messiah, or by the

accompanying record of the fulfilment of predictions uttered by the Messiah

himself touching the fate of his native land and its devoted metropolis. It

cannot but be regarded as truly remarkable, that two celebrated historians,

the one a Jew and the other a pagan, both of whom rejected Christianity and

hated the Christians, should have recorded so many facts which go directly to

authenticate and illustrate the Christian religion.

With the preparations for the siege of Jerusalem the thread of our Histories

is broken off. The description of the assault and capture is lost. Only the

21

