238 NOTES.

Galba, and he expected to hold the first place in his counsels. But he wa«

disappointed, and he deserved to be. The old man nominated the virtuous

Piso for his successor. And Otho avenged himself in the blood both of the

aged emperor and his adopted son. It was Otho's highest recommendation

to the degenerate Romans, that he resembled the corrupt and licentious Nero.

The rabble, who now ruled at Rome, called him Nero Otho, and were ready

at all hazards to follow his fortunes and to defend his throne. Galba had

fallen without a blow struck in his behalf. The cause of Otho was maintained

with much spirit by followers like himself. In three considerable, though in­

decisive, battles, his troops were victorious over those of Vitellius. In a
fourth,

they were defeated with great slaughter. Still they never wavered in then-

attachment or faltered in hope. They urged and entreated him to summon

all his forces and renew the fight. But he had resolved not to survive a
defeat,

tie plunged a dagger to his own heart, and terminated the life t" a debauchee

by the death, as it seemed to the Romans, of a philosopher—as it appears to

us, of a fool. The fortitude and composure, not without real or affected gen­

erosity, which he displayed in his last hours, endeared him still more to his

soldiers, and many of them made a voluntary sacrifice of their lives at his
fu­

neral pile (His. 2, 49).

Vitellius succeeded without further opposition to the vacant throne. But

like his predecessors, he had scarcely marched his armies into Rome, before

he was obliged to march them out again to meet a formidable competitor.

Too lazy and stupid from the first to command his own forces, he had now be­

come yet more drunken and debauched. Leaving all his military operations

to those generals whose energies alone had raised him to the throne, he gave

himself up to gluttony and intoxication. But one of them, Fabius Valens, had

become enervated and diseased by revelling. The other, Alienus Chechia,

marches out at the head of the troops, but proves treacherous and makes an

unsuccessful attempt to bring his soldiers over to the allegiance of
Vespasian.

On the other side, the main force had not yet arrived at the field of action
from

Syria. Vespasian himself and Mucianus, his commander-in-chief, were stiD

in the East. But the ardor and energy, the conduct and prowess of Antonius

Primus, who happened to be located near the northern border of Italy, amply

compensated for deficiency of numbers, as the loyalty and zeal of Vitellius'

army went far to counterbalance the treachery of one, and the absence of the

other, of their generals. And the conflict which ensued, was protracted, fu­

rious and sanguinary almost beyond a parallel even in the bloody annals of

civil commotion. Fired not only by party passion, but by a thirst for booty

and blood, the followers of Antonius fought like tigers, nay like demons,

through two days and the intervening night, defeated three successive armies

in three successive battles with little intermission, carried two distinct and

strongly fortified walls of defence about Cremona, plundered the treasures of

that city, took captive its inhabitants and burned its edifices, public and
pri­

vate, sacred and profane, to the ground. The cause of Vitellius was now

ruined. He himself had long given up in despair. In the language of Tacitus,

he would have forgotten that he had ever been emperor, had not his followers

persisted in calling him such. They adhered to him with firmness and fought

for him with desperation, when nothing remained to him but Rome and the

dregs of its population. And in this last hopeless struggle the Capitol w«a

