ESSAY

ON THE STYLE OF TACITUS.*

1. TaciTus was the inventor of an entirely new sty.fe of historic

composition; or rather he did not himself designedly form it, but,

while he applied himself to writing history -with a different design

and spirit from other authors, a new style of expression was the

natural and necessary result. For formerly it had been a prevalent

custom among writers of history, not only to defer writing till they

had arrived at a mature age, but also to compose with calm and tran足

quil feelings; differing in this respect from orators, who were wont

to believe that the effect of their speaking would correspond with the

degree of energy and emotion with which they spoke. Hence the

calm, smooth and flowing style of the ancient historians, even of

those who desired to be distinguished from the others by a sort of

peculiar dignity.

Now Tacitus was the first to depart from the rules of these wri足

ters. For it was the natural bont of his genius, not so much to nar足

rate the mere facts and events of history, which are often fortuitous,

but he labored especially to exhibit the character and spirit of the

actors in his scenes. Hence his chief merit, his great power, is seen

in the delineation of character : whether he labors by description to

place before us the image of some distinguished man; or so relates

his deeds, that the reader, by his own discernment, forms an opinion

of his secret motives and principles of action.

But since constant reflection upon virtue or vice has a very great

influence over the passions, he came to write in an excited rather

than a tranquil state of mind, so that he seems to possess more of the

ardor of youth than of the maturity of age. Now of such a state of

mind, a rapid and energetic style is the natural expression and the

necessary result. In a word, his style is impetuous, always hasten足

ing on to the issue, impatient of delay. And this arose not merely

* Abridged from the Pi olegomena of L. Doderlein to his edition of Tacitus,  
tom, ii., Halle, 1847, and translated from the Latin by Mr. Marshall Henshaw,

A, M , Tutor in Amherst College.

-

