4 PREFACE.

torian and of his peculiarities as a writer; and its most valu足

able results have been freely incorporated with the notes.

Freund's Worterbuch der Lateinischen Sprache, and Smith's

Dictionaries, of Greek and Roman Antiquities, and of Biog足

raphy and Mythology, the former republished in this country

under the supervision of Dr. Anthon, and the latter still

issuing in numbers from a London press, ha^p been found

very useful, and are often referred to. References are also

made to Becker's Gallus, and to the Roman Histories of

Niebuhr, Arnold and Schmitz.

It 'will be seen, that there are not unfrequent references to

my edition of the Germania and Agricola. These are not of

such a nature, as to render this incomplete without that, or

essentially dependent upon it. Still, if both editions are used,

it will be found advantageous to read the Germania and

Agricola first. The Treatises were written in that order, and

in that order they best illustrate the history of the author's

mind. The editor has found in his experience as a teacher,

that students generally read them in that way with more fa足

cility and pleasure, and he has constructed his notes accord足

ingly.

The notes on the Histories have been prepared with the

same general views and principles, as those on the Germania

and Agricola. In accordance with suggestions in some of

the public journals, they have been made somewhat more

grammatical. Their value in this respect has been enhanced

by more copious references to the excellent grammar of

Zumpt in addition to that of Andrews and Stoddard. It is

chiefly by way of such references, that the general principles

of grammar have been illustrated. Sometimes, however, a

concise statement of the principle referred to has been added;

and in regard to such idioms and constructions as are more

or less peculiar to ,Tacitus, it has been found necessary to

enter into more extended comments. It is hoped, that the

notes will be found to contain not only the grammatical, but

