iO NOTES.

(libus) on their way to, or in possession of, those barren rocky island»

(scopuli), particularly in the Aegean, to which they were banished,

and which were afterwards stained with their blood (infecti caedi-

bus).

3. Omissl .... honores.. Honors, whether declined or accepted.

Dion informs us, that Domitian put Herenuius Senecio to death, be­

cause he asked no office after having held the quaestorship. Dion,

67, 13.

5. Delatorum. A post-Augustan word, found especially in Taci­

tus and Suetonius. Cf. Freuud's Lexicon, sub voce. The thing taking

a new form under the emperors, gave rise to a new word.

6. Procurationes. The office of procurator, or collector of the

imperial revenues, afforded ample opportunity for amassing wealth.

7. Interiorem potentials. Power at court, such as was exer­

cised by the freedmen and other creatures of Nero and his successors.

—Agerent verterent. Compare agere ferre (= Greek ayc,v K«X tptptiv)

used by Livy to express ravaging with fire and sword; literally, leading

off the captives and hearing off the spoil. The use of verterent in thia

formula is peculiar to Tacitus, if not also to this passage, to which it is

peculiarly appropriate, since to the idea of rapine expressed by agere,

it superadds that of violence and cruelly. The phrase may be trans­

lated (though inadequately), plundered and destroyed.—Odio et ter-

rore. Amid hatred and terror. Wr. By reason of the hatred they

cherished and the terror they inspired. Rup.

Ch.HI.—11. Prodiderit. For the subj., cf. Gr. 262, R. 1,

Z. 532. For the perf. subj. instead of the imperf, cf. note, chap. 24:

dederit.

14r. Supremae .... necessitates. Illustrious men were re­

duced to the last necessities, such as precede and threaten death or

render it unavoidable, but not (as many suppose) death itself; for

they are here distinguished from exitus, and, as used elsewhere, the

words denote, not death, but the prior necessity, whether imposed by-

popular indignation, as in the case of Tigellinus, 1, 72, or the loss of

imperial favor through calumny, as in the case of Messaiina, Ann.

11,37 (where pi. as here: supremis necessitatibus), or the direct com­

mand of the emperor, as in tho case of Seneca, Ann. 15, 61. Cf. also

necessitate, His. 4, 11. This clause was probably meant to state only

a general fact, introductory to the virtues specified in the next two

clauses; though, as Wr. suggests, the bare'existence of such necessi­

ties, when they might have been escaped by obsequious compliance

with the tyrant's wishes, was no small proof of virtue. The word

necessitas properly denotes, that which is unavoidable (ne-cessum,

from cedo. Cf. Freund, sub v.).

15. Ipsa .... tolerata. This clause has occasioned commen­

tators so much perplexity, that some of the ablest of them, e. g. Rittei

