STYLE OF TACITUS. 23

comparison with other writers, to whom our author intended to be

unlike.

Tacitus indulges in Greek constructions, such as are used only by

a few, or by himself alone. For ancient writers, from the com­

mencement of the Grace-Latin literature, had introduced many

Gracisms into the Latin language, most of which the following age

dropped in order to introduce others in their stead. See Agr. 34,

Ceterorum Britannorum fugacissimi, an expression which the elder

Pliny had used before. Also Hisj;. IV., 28, Id nomen appellantur;

and Dial. 18, the words, pro Catone magis, resemble the Greek.

19. Tacitus exerted himself particularly to secure concinnky, so

much so that he rarely neglected it, and some portions he adorned

with exquisite art by the use of this rhetorical beauty. He even

added superfluous words, provided they would contribute to concin-

nity; as Hist. II., 72, Quidam miliium errore vEEi seu turbarum

studio certatim aggregabantur. He even disregarded the rules of

grammar in his fondness for this ornament: e. g., Ann. IV., 3, Ad

conjugii spent, consortium regni et necem mariti impulit, where the

idea of consortium ought to depend upon spem, and therefore would

regularly be in the genitive.

He was careful to close his periods with well-chosen clausules,

whence that disagreement with grammatical rules in Ann. XTV, 16,

Species carminum . . . non uno fluens; and Germ. 5, Pecorum fe-

cunda sed plerumque improcera. Furthermore he observed the law

of variety with solicitous care, sometimes for the sake of euphony,

as Ann. II., 20, quibus—quis; sometimes to avoid the appearance of

poverty in forms of expression. In this way he has sometimes

troubled the reader, Ann. XV., 71, Verginium Rufum claritudo

nominis expulit; nam Verginius studiajuvenum eloquently, Musonius

praeceptis sapientiae fovebat. In Hist. LL, 87, he employs the same

artifice, Calonum numerus amplior, procacissimis etiam inter servos

lixarum ingeniis; where he puts lixae instead of calones, in the last

clause, for variety, both classes (cooks and campboys) being em­

braced under each name. But he is particularly fond of varying the

construction by enallage; e. g., Hist. II., 79, Illa Syriae, hoc Ju-

daeae caput est; Agr. 33, ut.. decorum infrontem, itafugientibus

periculosissima.

Very often he shows his love of variety in passing from the active

to the passive, and vice versa; Hist. IV., 77; Germ. 29, Nam nec

tributis contemnuntur, nec publicanus adterit; and Hist. HI., 56,

Igndrus miliiiae, improvidus consiliis, where editions have consilii.

Frequently he varies the form of construction, as if for no other

purpose than to exhibit the richness of his mother tongue, and to

