BOOK I.

31 ChiP. I It has been conjectured, that this Book, as it now stands

is acephalous, the words Populi Romani res enarraturo, or the like,

having been lost from the beginning. But the subject of the work is

sufficiently brought out in what follows, and was doubtless prefixed

also in a title. Initium is pred. after erunt.

LinE 1. Ser. Gaiba ... consules — annus, in quo fuere consules,

i. e., the 1st of January, a. u. c. 822, A. D. 69. The reign of Galba had

commenced in June of the previous year. As Galba was put to death

on the 15th of January (cf. chap. 27, seq.), only half a month of his

reign is directly embraced within the compass of the Histories of our

author,-who having for his main object to write the history of the

Flavian dynasty, commences with the beginning of the civil year,

which was nearly coincident with those commotions in the armies

of Germany, which led to the assumption of imperial power by Ves­

pasian. The chronology may be seen at a glance in the table on

p. 26.—Consules means colleagues (those who go together, con and

sul, root of salio) or joint presidents of the Roman republic. Cf.

Smith's Diet, of Gr. and Rom. Ant., sub voc, and Niebuhr's History,

as there cited.

2. Post conditam urbem. Observe the concrete form of expres­

sion. The Latin language is very deficient in such abstract words as

foundation, constitution, &c. The people were marked for action,

and their language deals in facts.—Octingentos. Al. septingentos.

But the number of years here mentioned, must cover the whole period

from the founding of the city to the second consulship of Galba

(otherwise the clause, though beginning with nam, assigns no reason

for commencing the history with that date), and that was 820 years

(in round numbers, exactly 822). Cf. 4, 58: per octingentos viginti

annos. Septingentos is a conjectural reading.

3. Dam.... memorabantur. So long as the history of the

Roman people (i. e. the republic) was being written. For after the

battle of Actium, it was tes Caesarum, not res populi Romani, that

were recorded. So in Ann. 1,1, Pop. Rom. prospera vel adversa is

opposed to temporibus Augusti. Cf. also G. 37, Pop. Rom. vs. Caesari.

4. Eloquentia ac libertate. These words limit retulerunt.—

Libertate: postquam. Al. libertate. Postquam. But postquam ...

bellatum, etc., is antithetic to dum res, etc. (the antithetic particle

ted being omitted. Cf. Essay on the Style of T, p. 13); and there­

