18 ESSAY ON THE

To the same class belong, Agr. 17, Cum Cerialis quidem alterius

successoris curam . . . obruisset, and, G. 25, Cetera domus officio

uxor ac liberi exsequuntur. To destroy the attraction by inserting

a comma here, may adapt the construction to our ears, but would

not exhibit the thought in the light in which it was viewed by the

ancients. In the same way I read, Hist; II., 27, Quam altiore ab

initio repetam, i. e., altius, ab initio.

To a similar attraction belong nominatives with infinitives, after

the example of the Greek and Latin poets : Hist. IV., 55, Socius

(esse) jactabat; Hist. IV., 40, Cognitus est confugisse ; Hist. II.,

74, Legiones secuturae sperabantur; Hist. IV., 23, Vis et arma

satis placebant, i. e., vim et arma satis fore placebat; and, H., 76,

Ipse qui suadet considerandus est adjiciatne, etc. Agr. 43, has

been correctly restored, Momenta ipsa deficientis . . . nunciata

constabant; Hist. I., 84, Muta ista et inanima intercidere ac re-.

parari promiscua sunt.

Of the same class the following is a very common specimen:

Hist. II., 82, Sufficere videbatur . . . pars copiarum et dux Mucia-

nus et Vespasiam nomen et nihil arduum fatis, i. e., et ouod nihil

arduum esset fatis; Hist. V., 21, Obstitit formido et remiges per

alia militiae munia dispersi.

13. Thus far I have examined those sources of brevity which

may be referred to the established rules of grammar. There are

other examples which cannot be explained under a grammatical term.

For example, sometimes the narrative hastens forward so rapidly that

it includes two different events in the same expression: Hist. I., 46,

Laco praefectus tanquam in insulam seponeretur ab evocato quern

ad caedem ejus Otho praemiserat confossus; Ann. XVI., 13, Qui

dum assident, dum deflentis saepe eodem rogo cremabantur. In

the latter, the state of disease, and in the former, the act of going

forth, which were intermediate, are passed by in silence. Add

Hist. III., 29. Also Hist. II., 68, is obscure for the same reason:

Ludicro initio, ni numerus caesorum invidiam Vitellio (MS. bello)

auxisset. For the primary idea, ni numerus caesorum magnus

fuisset, lurks concealed as it were in a single word. And Tacitus

quite often did not condescend to relate those things the knowledge

of which was necessary for clearly understanding the order of events,

provided that readers, sufficiently attentive and discerning, could

follow him by their own judgment or sagacity. Thus in Hist. I., 77,

it is said that when Otho assigned the consulship to Vopiscus, pleri-

que Viennensium honori datum interprelabantur, where the reason

for such a construction cannot be clearly seen, unless we decide that

Vopiscus was an inhabitant of Vienna. Yet that fact is nowhere

