12 ESSAY ON THE

In the same way the dative is very often used for the ablative with

ab, e. g., Hist. III., 70 : Ne tnilitibus inter-ficeretur. Moreover, in

ia omitted, e. g., Hist. V., 5: Vilisque aurea temph reperta. Hist. I.,

13: Hi discordes et rebus minoribus sibi quisque tendentes.

Hence I have erased in of the common editions as often as it is

wanting in the, MSS. Hist. II., 33: Imperia ducum ineerto reliquerat.

Hist. I., 68: Ipsi (in) medio vagi, as Ann. II., 52. Hist. II., 59 :

Appulsu litoris trucidatus.

Moreover, ad or in is used or omitted promiscuously before the ac足

cusative. I pass by those examples in which a preposition enters

into the composition of the verb, as, advolvi genua; although even

such have given offence, as Hist. III., 43, Stoecliadas insulas ajfertur ;

and c. 50, Omniaque quae agenda forent... aderat; for in both these

places the old editions inserted ad. Very often the early editors si足

lently inserted a preposition, which, upon the authority of the manu足

scripts, I have either erased, or advised to erase, or ought myself to

have erased. Hist. III., 7: (in) majus accipiiur, Agr. 10: (in)

universum aestimanti. The following are more peculiar to Tacitus :

Hist. I., 45: Marium Celsum . . . (ad) supplkium expostulabant.

Hist. II., 36 : Macer (ad) exitium poscebatur.

I suspect that I shall hardly persuade many that Tacitus makes

use of this license ; but, at all events, it was worth while to set forth

a number of examples, and the unanimity of the MSS. And surely

it would be wonderful harmony between books, if the same error

were so often repeated. Each one, according to his own taste, will

concede to Tacitus more or less of this liberty of accomplishing, by

the power of the cases alone, most purposes for which other writers

think prepositions necessary. I only add, Hist. II., 63 : Ne periculo

prineipis famam clementiae affectaret; cf. IV., 69. Hist. II., 70 :

Vulgus clamore el gaudio deflectere via.

6. The use of the genitive is likewise somewhat more extensive

with Tacitus than with other Latin authors, since, by its assistance

he could dispense with prepositions. What other writer has used

jus Wbertorum, Hist. II., 92, oralis militum, Ann. XI., 33, for in lib-

ertos, in milites ?

Tacitus seeks the same brevity in the use of the dative, which he

is wont to substitute, with far greater freedom than other writers, for

the preposition ad, with the accusative. He says, in the same sense,

Ann. II., 58, Neu proceres . . . ad discordias traherel, and Agr. 12,

Per principes factionibus et sludiis trdhuntur; or, Hist. II., 45, In

lacrimas effusus, and I., 69, lacrimis effusus; or, Hist. IV., 5, Ui

firmior adversus fortuita, and, A. 3&,firmus advERsis. With charac足

teristic love of variety he has brought together both constructions in

