STYLE OF TACITUS.

stated. I have noticed a similar example in Hist. II., 71. But I know

of no more remarkable instance than Agr. 24, where the words nave

prima transgressus wore obscure, until it was discovered that Agri-

cola had gone over (the previous autumn) from Britain to the con­

tinent, or even to Rome, a fact which Tacitus does not mention.

14. Since now such a studied brevity seems to involve a depart­

ure from usage, and to favor a copiousness of matter rather than to

subserve the beauties of style, Tacitus makes a compensation by

laboring intently to adorn his language, in order that he may not lose

the praise of eloquence.

Of the ancienf authors of history, Caesar wrote in a style, pure,

graceful and devoid of all ornament, not departing from the ordinary

modes of expression on 'Jie one part, and yet on the other avoiding

the vulgarity of colloquial language by a somewhat artificial compo­

sition. Sallust was fond of antiquated expressions and wrote in a

style of peculiar gravity, still carefully preserving simplicity. Livy

applied ornament to his diction, and sought the praise of eloquence.

But Tacitus believed that a kind of magnificence and sublimity of

style was peculiarly adapted to the dignity of history. And in this,

indeed, he resembled Thucydides, who himself also had cultivated a

style widely removed from the ordinary eloquence of other writers;

not for want of genius, or through ignorance of letters, as some

suppose, but intentionally and understandingly, that he might not

seem to have furnished the lovers of pleasure with a mere iywwr/,a

Is tJ ,raporxpw,i-* In other respects there is almost a greater differ­

ence between these writers, than resemblance.! For the Grecian

writer, in discussions and orations, is especially and peculiarly con­

densed and bold, though in his boldness approaching nearer to

the austerity of philosophers than to the ornament of poets; while in

narration his style is very clear and flowing. Tacitus, on the con­

trary, shaped his narrative to the cast of his own mind, therein rival­

ling the vigor and boldness of poets; but as often as he interwove

orations, he contented himself with obeying the ordinary rules of

eloquence. In fine, there is no essential difference between his

style and that of poetry; and strangely inconsistent are they, who

refuse to Tacitus the use of any word or construction, while they

freely grant the same to poets. And rarely indeed does he, while

laboring to be brief, become - obscure, as is usually the case in a

* I. e.," a mere prize essay for temporary applause." The expression is quoted  
from the Introduction of Thucydides' History, in which, as he says, he gives
to

the public K-rijpa is ill paWov, ^ iy,a,Ktrfta zs rd ,rapa^p,ji,a. Ed.

t Fried. Roth has written an excellent essay upon these writers, Verglei

b'hende Betrachtungen liber Thucydides und Tacitus, Munchen, 1812.

