PRELIMINARY REMARKS. 237

history and a sacred scrupulousness to say nothing that shall in the least
defile

or degrade it, pervades all his historical writings. While therefore we admire

them as works of art arid study them as lessons of moral and political wisdom,

we may also confide in them (with the necessary allowance for human in­

firmity) as fountains of historical truti,, none the less true, but all the
more

convincing and persuasive, for the skill with which he arranges his facts, the

earnestness with which he inculcates his sentiments and the eloquence with

which they are adorned.

A glance at the principal events and leading characteristics of the period,

which Tacitus has selected for his Histories, may afford an opportunity to

observe somewhat more particularly the writer's manner of treating his sub­

ject, and may at the same time prepare the reader to follow him through the

details with more intelligent interest. The first three emperors reigned in
all

only about a year and a half, and all came to a violent death. Galba filled

the throne only seven months, Otho less than four, and Vitejus about eight,

after which little and brief authority, they fell victims successively to the

same policy by which they had in succession risen to power—they took the

sword, and they perished by the sword. Till the dethronement of Nero,

the emperors had been nominally appointed by the senate, though the power

of the senate really extended no farther than to confirm the nomination of
their

successors by those who held the supreme authority. Now this nominal power

was wrested from the senate and usurped by the troops. And since one army

had as good a right as another to the honor and advantage of placing their

commander on the throne, there was a general rush for the city and the spoils

from every quarter of the empire. Galba was the first to disclose the secret

that an emperor could be nominated in a province as well as in the city, and

invested with the imperial purple by the military instead of the civil power

(His. 1, 4); and he was the first victim to this disastrous change in the
policy

of the state. He was named emperor by the legions under his own command

in Spain, and when their courage began to falter in so novel and hazardous an

enterprise, he was raised to the throne by the Praetorian Guards in the
capital,

who were inflamed with resentment at the atrocious designs of Nero and fur­

ther stimulated by the hope of an immense reward which had been promised

them in the name, though without the authority, of Galba. But when they

saw that the donative was withheld, which could not be bestowed without a

renewal of all the extortion and proscription of Nero himself—nay more, when

they discovered that Galba would not indulge them in all the licentiousness

and crime in which they had revelled under Nero, the same Pnetorian Guards

hurled him headlong from the throne, severed his head from his body, and left

him weltering in hia gore. Galba had some apology for his ambition. His

only alternative was the scaffold or the throne. Happy for the reputation of

the old soldier—happy, we might almost say, for the old soldier himself, if he

had chosen the former. " He seemed too great for a private man while he

was one," says Tacitus, in one of those pregnant sentences of his which so

often body forth a whole character, ' as the cope of heaven is imaged in a

dewdrop,' " and the suffrages of all mankind would have pronounced him

worthy of empire, had he never made the experiment—omnium consensu

capax imperii, nisi imperasset" (His. I, 49).

Otho had no such excuse. He had been the first to espouse the cause ol

