STYLE OF TACITUS. 1)

custom, who preferred to call his work libri de officiis scripti, rather

than to omit the participle. Now Tacitus, for the sake of rapidity in

his narrative, left such words to be supplied by the reader, as often

as he thought there could be no danger of mistake: Hist. L, 31,

Longinum exarmant, quia non ordine mililiae (superior) sed e Galbae

amicis . . . erat; Hist. IH., 82, Vitelliani sola desperations (adjuti)

ruebant; Hist. IV., 84, Plurimi Ditem patrem insignibus, quae in

ipso manifesta aut per ambages (significata) conjectant; Hist. V., 5,

Judaei mente sola (visibile) unumque numen inielligunt; Hist. I., 80,

Pessimus quisque in occasionem praedae, scil. intentus; Agr. 30,

Spent in nostris manibus (positum) habebant; Hist. HI. 62, Exerd-

ius immane quantum (aucto) animo exitium valentis ut finem belli

aecepii; Hist. I., 83, Pietas vestra acrius quam considerate (demon-

strata) excitavit.

A few of these examples have escaped the notice of commenta­

tors ; others, through a forgetfulness of this license, have been in­

correctly understood: Agr. 5, Electus quem contubernio (dignum)

existimaret; Hist. IH., 33, Defossa eruere, faces in manibus

(gerentes), like the English " torch in hand." Nor ought the fol­

lowing to be thought harsh, Hist. I., 31, Alexandriam praemissos at-

que inde rursus (revocatos) refovebat.

Frequent also is that kind of pragnantia to which I may venture

to give the name structura contracta, of which the most familiar

examples are Olympia vincere, or ponlem jungere. In Tacitus I

find navare bellum, i. e., operam navare bello; Hist. IV., 37, ad

liberandum obsidium; Hist. H., 60, Fidem absolvit; Hist. V., 11,

Proelia serebant, i. e., manus conserebant proeliis; Hist. II., 34,

Ne miles segne otium tereret, i. e., segni otio tempus. Some­

times he has the same, even when he. gains nothing in brevity.

Hist, in., 56, Ut nube atra diem obtenderent, which differs not

more from the common ut nubem atram diei obtenderent, than

urbem muris circumdare differs from urbi muros. See Hist. II., 2,

Formam deae paucis disserere. Editors ought to have recognised

the same usage in Hist. III., 3, Hue illuc tracturus interpretatio-

nem, i. e., res interpretatione. To the same head I refer, Hist. I., 42,

In utrumque latus transverberatus.

12. By attraction not brevity indeed, but rapidity is favored; the

number of words is not diminished, but of pauses, and the members

of the sentences are more closely connected together. Nouns are

attracted from their state of apposition, and are forced into the rela­

tion of adjectives. Hist. I., 65, Uno amne discretis, i. e., una re,

amne; Hist. IV., 56, Celerum rulgus, i. e., ceteri, vulgus; Hist.

III. 41, Aderant vis el peevnia et ruentis fortunae novissima libido.

2*

