STYLE OF TACITUS. 11

quaerere instead of acquirere, Ann. I., 36; instead of conquirere,

Ann. VI., 1; instead of exquirere, Ann. II., 53; instead otrequirere

= desiderate, Hist. IV., 6. Hence this exchange is usually made

with a loss of definiteness, but with advantage in regard to brevity.

I will mention a few examples, unique indeed, but yet allowed by

all. Hist. I., 84, congestu lapidum stare = constare.—Ann. XIV., 21,

struere = destrttere.—Ann. XV., 14, cernerent = decernerent.—G., 2,

tristem cullu = ad incolendum.—Ann. XIV., 4, pectori haerens =

irihaerens.—Hist. ILL, 57, miscebant = immiscebani.—Hist. HI., 25,

pulsos = impulsos.—Hist. I., 35, sistens = obsistens.—Ann. XV.,

50, cepisse = suscepisse. In many other places I have restored this

usage from the MSS., where other editors have not ventured to do

so: e. g., Agr. 4, Sublime el rectum ingenium, i. e., erectum.—Hist.

IV., 20, Omnibus porlis rumpunt, where the common editions have

erumpunt.—Hist. IV., 81, Postremo aestimari a medicis jubet, where

Ernesti has preferred existimari.—Hist. IV., 48, Si pauca supra

petiero ab initio, Edd. repetiero. Perhaps also cursaturus should be

preferred to incursaturus in A. 1.

5. The dignity of the Latin language is impaired by nothing more

than by a frequent use of particles, pronouns, or auxiliary verbs; on

the other hand it is increased when nouns follow nouns or verbs di­

rectly, so that the sentence seems to consist of mere solid and weighty

matter. Thus originate those sentences which strike our ears, and

those of the Greeks, as too cumbrous and heavy, since there is no

pause allowed after the separate parts and words. But the same

expressions had a very pleasing sound to the Romans, and especially

to Tacitus, as the following: Agrippina aequi impatiens, dominandi

avida, virilibus curis feminarum vitia exuerat, Ann. VI., 25. In this

example, whatever is heavy was produced spontaneously without

any design or study. But weight and stateliness may be promoted

by an intentional effort of the writer. With this view Tacitus omits

the more unimportant words oftener, and with more studious design,

than any other -writer. And first he refrains from the use of prepo­

sitions, satisfied with the power of the case alone. Hence ab or ex

is omitted contrary to common usage. Hist. V., 23, Commeatus Gallia

adventantes, cf. III., 15.—Agr. 18, Cujus possessions revocatum.—

G. 14, Exigunt principis sui libhralitate illum bellatorem equum.—

Hist. I., 55, Non tamen quisquam in modumconcionis aut suggestu

locutus.—III., 29, Cum superjacta tela tesludine laberentur.

Hence I have restored the shorter reading of the manuscripts in

Agr. 19 : Ut civitates proximis hibernis in remota et avia deferren!,

and Hist. HI., 74: Clamore proximis orto. In both places the editions

have a proximis.

