420 NOTES.

215 ^ras*'s locis, sc. the wilderness or deserts of Arabia.—Pet

lacrimas = inter lacrimas. Wr.—Torpentibus. Sunk in inaction.

37. Sed siblmet . . . pepulissent. The reading and the mean­

ing of this difficult passage have been much disputed. It is particu­

larly a question whether sibimet refers to Moses or to the exiles, and

whether duci should be read in the dative or the ablative Pepulis­

sent is also referred by some to the past and by others to the future.

Without dwelling on the reasons for it, the following is given as on

the whole the most satisfactory version: but they should trust to him­

self, a celestial leader, by whose aid first (tho first offored them) they

would soon avert their present calamities. It will be seen, that in

this version pepulissent is taken as the subj. of tl/e oratio obliqua used

for the future perfect of the oratio recta, and that fut. perf. nsed for the

simple fut. for the sake of implying rapidity, i. e. in the oratio recta, it

would be pepulcritis. Cf. Z. 511 and 496, 5.

2lg 5. Conjectura .... soli. Led by inference .fom the grassy

soil.

8. Dicata. Al. dicata sunt. Dicata is nom. pl. neut, Cf. Gr.

205, R 2, (2); Z. 376, b. The clause is a concise expression for urbs

condita et templum dicatum est, with the additional implication, how­

ever, of the sacredness of the city as well as the temple.

Cii. IV.—9. Q,uo sibl .... firmaret. Rather to preserve them

from the idolatry which the rest of the world practised. Put Deo in­

stead of sibi here (as after crederent in the previous section), and T

will bo quite correct.

12. Effigiem animalis, sc. asini. Cf. 3. This charge of holding

sacred the image of an ass is reiterated by very many classic writers.

Cf. Rup. ad loc. It gained currency perhaps for no other reason so

much, as that it was a convenient topic of ridicule and satire on a de­

spised people. T. expressly declares, in the very next section, that

they allowed no images in their temple. The Bipontines explain

away the contradiction by'supposing that sacrare penetrali does not

here mean to consecrate as an object of worship, but to preserve as a

sacred memorial. But '/ It may not be amiss to observe, in this con­

nection, that the ass was held in high esteem by the Jews, insomuch

that kings aud princes rode on asses and were forbidden to multiply

horses. Deut. 17, 16; 2 Sam. 8, 4; Mat. 21, 5.—Errorem sitimque',

i. e. sitim, qua errabundi cruciabautur, by hendiadys. Wr.

13. Caeso ariete. While the ram is slain (sacrificed).

14. In contumellam Ham mollis. Ammou was represented and

worshipped under the image of a ram's head (Herod. 2, 42), the

original idea of the god being that of a protector and leader of the

flocks. Cf. Diet. Mythol. and Biog., Amman.

15. Quia. Al. quom.—Apin. Apis was a sacred bull at Mem­

phis, which received the highest honors as a god among tho Egyptian*

