BOok IV. 413

Pag*

3. Medici« The physicians, the priests and the emperor were2]J

doubtless in collusion to impose upon the superst itious people, who were

equally ready to be deluded. The miracles of Christ and his apostles,

on the contrary, were wrought in the face of prejudice in the popular

mind, and of envy and hatred on die part of all the leading men.

8. Igitur. Cf. note, 1, 29.

lO. Laeto ... vultu, erecta ... multitudine. These state­

ments show how ready all parties were to believe the miracle.

12. Utrumque .... pretium. The dynasty of Vespasian was

no longer on the throne, so that the imperial favor could not now be

the motive of the witnesses. But how was it when they first told the

story, and for a long time afterwards 1 That is the maia question.

The fact here stated only proves, that having once told the story, the

witnesses still persisted in it. Voltaire pronounces these the best au­

thenticated miracles that are to be found in history, sacred or profane.

Hume also adduces them with great confidence, as an offset against

the Christian miracles. But look at the circumstances above adverted

to,—the discrepancy in the written records—the conspiring interest of

the emperor, the priests and the physicians to get up a miracle—the

readiness of the people to believe it—and the motive of the original

witnesses in the first place to tell the story, and then to persist in it.

Moreover, the cases are expressly declared to have been such in their

outward appearance, that a deception might easily have been practised.

The language of T. (dedita superstitionibus gens, etc.) makes it more

than doubtful whether he believed in any miracle, though he leaves no

room to doubt some of the facts. On this subject, see Paley's Evi­

dences, prop. 2, chap. 2.

Ch. LXXXII.—15. S a cram sedem, sc. Serapidis.

1 "t« Intentusque numini. Consequently with his back towards

the door.—Respexit pone tergum, i. e. quum . .. capturus auspicium

. .. tandem se convertisset. Suet. Vesp. 7.

18. E primoribus. Suetonius makes Basilides a freedman.

24. Ex. nomine Basilidis, i. e. as prophetic of royal dignity or

imperial'power (j3a«AE0s, king).

Ch. LXXXIII.—26. Celebrata. Treated, handled.

27. Antistites. Priests (praestites); those who stand before or

preside over religious rites.

28. Q,ui .... primus, i. e. Ptolemy I. There were 13 Ptole­

mies in the Macedonian line of Egyptian kings. Ptolemy HI. is

mentioned in the next section (quem tertia aetas tulit).

38. E gente Eumolpidarum. Of the family of the Eumol-

pidae. Eumolpus was the founder of the Eleusinian Mysteries. Cf.

Die. Ant., Euf,oAm'i,K.

1. Eleusine. From Eleusis, a town of Attica, near the right 212

bank of the Cephissus at its mouth, whore the Eleusinian Mysteries

