STYLE OF TACITUS. •

cise sentences, sometimes of rounded periods. And in the narration

of heroic deeds, battles and debates, he varies his style, according as

he himself hastens on to more important matters, or desires to urge

and hurry forward the minds of his readers, or to delay them and

persuade them to a calmer examination of the subject. Therefore he

never wearies us by a series of concise sentences, continued beyond

proper limits, which is a fault of Seneca.

Tacitus has omitted nothing which would contribute to brevity oi

style. In this he chose to imitate, not so much the oracles, as the

ancient Roman writers. For as the language < f the Greeks was

naturally adapted to express grace (x<fp,ra), so that of the Romans

contained in it the elements of dignity, and, as it were, imperial

brevity. In its own nature it was fitted to illustrate that com­

mon saying: quot verba, tot pondera. I might mention the want

of the article—a thing to be regretted in other respects—as among

the chief reasons and sources of this merit, although this is not the

place for examining this subject more fully. Now Cicero, and the

writers of his time, disregarded, in a manner, this natural character

of the Latin tongue, while they attempted to soften the rough power

and strength of the Roman language by the polish and refinement oi

the Greek. But those writers who adorned the age of the Cssars

after the time of Tiberius—Seneca and Tacitus—again departed from

this elegance of style. For they carefully and intelligently cherished

that style of expression, which the ancient Romans, almost without

cultivation and under the impulse of their nature, had employed.

Besides other advantages, they labored to preserve, the power of the

ancient style, in such a way as both to avoid the antique rudeness of

an uncultivated age, and drop the effeminate verbosity of a subse­

quent period.

While therefore Tacitus strove to speak so that every word might

have its weight, he made use of many, or rather of all kinds of in­

genious contrivances, not neglecting even the most minute. Nor,

while I am pursuing this subject, do I entertain any fear of seeming

to depreciate the ability of Tacitus, as if it were the mark of a weak

and narrow mind, in so earnest a narration of the most important

events, to choose his words with a sort of scholarlike care and anxi­

ety. The foundation and source of so rich a diction was the sublime

genius of Tacitus, the greatness of his mind, and the strength and

fervor of his emotions. At the same time, it is well known with

what almost religious scrupulosity the ancients elaborated, each one for

himself, their style and language; and, in so doing, attributed less to

a sort of divine power and inspiration, (as if words would flow from a

subject spontaneously,) than to industry and care. Remarkable sto

