234 NOTES.

The former would of course admit of rhetorical flourishes, and the lalfer of

playful sallies and sarcastic cuts, which would not become the dignity of his

tory. In his Annals, the author has pruned off still more of the redundances

of his youthful genius, though even there he shows that exuberance was natu­

ral to him, that he was endowed by nature with the rhetorical and the poetical

element in little less profusion than the historical and the philosophical. It

would be instructive and interesting to trace the progressive development of

this master-mind, and observe the striking changes, and yet the unequivocal

signs of identity, which mark the history of his intellectual life from the
com­

mencement of the Dialogue on Oratory to the conclusion of the Annals of the

Roman empire. It would be difficult to find a more remarkable example of

diversity in unity.

The Histories are on the whole perhaps the most perfect production of the

author's genius, as they are also the most finished work of art—the work on

which he laid out his strength, and on which he relied to transmit his name

to posterity. They were written when he was nearer fifty than forty, in the

very prime of life, free alike from the foibles of youth and the feebleness of

age, possessing at once imagination in undecayed vigor and judgment in

matured perfection. His resources had been accumulating, as the result of

long observation and reflection. His feelings were chastened and yet deepen­

ed by suffering, and his eloquence was matured by study and practice. He

had spoken at the bar and ruled in the senate. He had served, perhaps com­

manded in the Roman armies. Whether he writes of civil or military affairs,

he seems alike at home, alike familiar with the arts of war and those of
peace.

At the same time, he was master of all the lore of books, and all the wisdom

of the schools. The principles of philosophy were almost the atmosphere he

breathed. Like Cicero, he combined the high-toned morals of the Stoics with

the more liberal doctrines of the Academy, though he held to the Stoical doc­

trine of fate and, sometimes, particularly in his Annals, gives utterance to

religious opinions bordering on those of the Skeptics and Epicureans (Ann.

3,18; 6, 22; 16, 33). The Poets, as well as the Philosophers, were his
masters.

Virgil especially charmed his ear and touched his heart. The image of the

Mantuan Bard is stamped on every page, particularly of the historian's earlier

writings.* Nor are there wanting reflections of the style and sense and spirit

of Horace. He had also caught the living images and winged words of him,

" who wandered erst from Scio's rocky isle." The constitution, and laws of

his country were familiar to him as household words. The civil and political

history of Greece and Rome had been his study and his meditation. He was

a republican by choice, but by necessity, as he thought, an imperialist (His.

1,1.16. et passim). He admired the former state of things at Rome, but he

submitted to the present. He loved liberty, but he loved order more, and

hoped to find it only under the throne of the Caesars. He has canonized many

a martyr of freedom and damned many a tyrant to eternal infamy. But he

abhorred ultraism, censured would-be martyrs and bade the admirers of the

impracticable learn from the example of such men as Agricola, that there

* Cf. Essay on the style of Tacitus, p. 24. See also Notes passim, particularly  
lose on Agricola and Germania, which often point to examples of Virgiliaa

