PRELIMINARY REMARKS. 23*

may be great and good subjects under such sovereigns as Domitian (A. 42)

With the public history and the private life of the period of which he writes,

he was of course well acquainted, for it was the period of his own active ex­

ertions, and most of the events, which he records, either passed under his own

eye at Rome, or were brought directly to his ears as they transpired in the

more distant provinces. When with a mind so disciplined and so furnished as

we have thus faintly described—in the full maturity of his powers and with

the utmost richness of materials—he sat down to write the history of an em­

pire which involved the history of the world—fit author on fit theme—he could

say, as jEneas did in beginning the story of his country's fall and his own

wanderings:

Quaeque ipse miserrima vidi,

Et quorum magna pars mi.

The parallel holds in more than one particular. The events of Tacitus' his­

tory, like those of /Eneas' tale, are chiefly sad, disastrous to his country,
dis­

graceful to her rulers and of melancholy interest to himself; he had seen them

with his own eyes, mourned over them in his inmost heart,* suffered them in

his own person and in the person of his dearest friends; he had acted a some­

what conspicuous part as a senator and an orator in those troublous times;

partly by his own prudence, partly by some miracle, as it were, which we

cannot understand^ he escaped unharmed and with unsullied reputation;

and no sooner has he weathered the storm and found a safe and tranquil har­

bor, than he gives to the world an able and faithful history of the scenes

through which he and his country had passed. Well might the historian

felicitate himself on the propitious change in his fortunes and the happiness

of that age, in which it was once more lawful for men to think what they

pleased and to speak what they thought (His. 1,1)! Nor have his readers

less reason for self-congratulation, that this happy age was preceded by evil

times, when the historian experienced bitter trials and when the state passed

from the extreme of bloody anarchy to the extreme of despotic cruelty; for

to these experiences we are doubtless indebted for much of his wisdom and

eloquence; and though other and inferior minds may have been crushed be­

neath the oppressive sway of Domitian, and almost lost the power of memory

together with the gift of speech (A. 2, 3), this long period of forced silence

only condensed the swelling .thoughts of Tacitus, compressed his glowing

emotions and added intensity to the burning words, in which he spoke, as soon

as the pressure was removed.!

Much has been written on the credibility of Tacitus, as a historian. His

veracity has been impugned. Provoked by the severity with which he treats

the Jews and the Christians, some of the early Fathers pronounce him the

most eloquent of liars.§ He has been charged with exaggerating the virtues

and the victories of the Romans on the one hand, and on the other, their vices

* "Witness the pathetic conclusion of the Biography of Agricola (A. 39-46).

t Witness the absence of Tacitus for four years near the close of Dom,tian's

reign (A. 45) ? when his tyranny was at its height (A. 44).

t Cf. Plin. Ep. 4, 20: Dolori sublimitatem et magnificentiam ingenium, ,ngenio

rim et amaritudinem dolor addit.

$ Cf. Tertullian. Apol. adv. gent. ch. 16: loquacissimutn mendacium.

