book I. 271

divideret just above. Divideret denotes repeated and customary ac-^2

tion: he was in the habit of dividing as often as Galba feasted at the

house of Otho. Dederit denotes a single, specific act . The distinc­

tion is the same which always prevails between the imperf. and the

perf. in the indie.; but which is not usually observed in the subj,

where the tenses are less distinctly marked in all languages, and where

in Latin the perf. is generally used only as a perf. definite, and the

imperf. is used indiscriminately for completed and incomplete actions.

The rule for the succession of the tenses would require the imperf.

tubj. in both places here. Cf. Gr. 258; Z. 516. But certain historical

writers, particularly Nepos, Livy and Tacitus, seem to have felt a ne­

cessity for the same distinction of time in the subj. as in the indicative.

Cf. Z. 504, Note. This distinction, it is believed, will be found appli­

cable to all the examples in Tacitus. Thus in 5, 20, the two tenses

are brought together in the same sentence, both after ut denoting a •

consequence. The perf. invaserit is first used to denote the simple

historical fact of an attack (like the perf. indefinite of the indie). But

when he proceeds to speak of the progressive execution of the assault,

he uses the imperfect (traherent). Compare also admoverit, 1, 66,

with occurrerent, 1, 63 ; peticrit, 3, 51, with aestimarentur, 3, 52,

&c, &c.—Praefecti. Cornelius Laco, ignavissimus mortalium. Cf.

chap. 6.—Nota, sc. publicae largitiones.

1C Occulta, sc. secretiora praemia.

Ch. XXV.—18. Tesserarlum. Bearer of the watchword, which

in early times was inscribed on a tessera or square block (from remapes),

and thus passed through the ranks on the eve of battle, as a word by

which the soldiers might distinguish friends from foos. Thus Silius

Ital: Tacitum dat tessera signum. Cf. also Virg. Aen. 7, 637. Tcs-

serarius, in the military sense, is post-Augustan.

19. Optionem. The optiones were the lieutenants of tho centu­

rions (the suc-centuriones of Livy), so called from the time, when (and

from the fact that) quem velint, permissum est centurionibus optare—

previously called accensi, according to Festus, sub voce Optio. Cf.

Smith's Diet, of Antiq. under Centurio. Render adjutant, or retain

the Latin word both here and iu tesserarium.—Perductos. Brought

over, sc. to himself (Otho); in partem deteriorem dictum turpi do

causa, ut feminao a lenonibus perduci dicuntur. Ernesti. Cf.

Horace: perduci poterit pudica.—Postquam connects cognovit and

onerat.

2%. Manipulares. Common soldiers, for such the tesserarius

and the optio must be called, rather than officers. The word is derived

from manus and pleo, since a handful of hay on the top of a pole was

tho original ensign of a Roman maniple.

25. Primores niilituni, sc. who had been promoted by Nymphi-

dius, when he was prefect of the praetorians, cf. 5; and whom Galba

