24 ESSAY ON THE

show that the freedom of Latin writers could be abridged by no rigid

and arbitrary rules: 'e. g., Ann. I., 18, Plurimi detrita tegmina et

nudum corpus exprobantes; Hist. IV. 77, Neque aliud excusandum

habeo, quam quod vos Gallici foederis oblitos praedixerim, memoriam

Romani sacramenii lenere credidi. C. Roth has collected and ex­

plained many examples in Agr. Ex. XIII.

He also makes frequent use of the figures of rhetoric, in order to

render his style brilliant, particularly of the antithesis: Hist. L,

36, Omnia sEkviLItER pro domiNatioNE ; Ann. II., 52, Spe vicTOkiaE

inducti sunt ut yiscEkENTuR ; Hist. I., 65, Uno amne disckETis

coNNExtjm odium. Alliterations also, to which Latin authors are

somewhat tempted by the very nature of their language: e. g., Ann.

I., 51, si poenitentiam, quam perniciem malebat; A. 1, virtus ....

vicit vitium. Moreover he abounds in what we call in barbarous Latin

allusiones. No one is ignorant into what absurdities the scrupulous­

ness of commentators has fallen, who, as often as they find certain

words, similar to those of some former writer, cry out at once, " imi­

tation." But Tacitus often does not imitate others, but rather alludes

to them, especially the poets, by repeating some words, remarkable

either for beauty of sentiment or felicity of expression, and thus ex­

citing a pleasing recollection in his readers. And it is often doubtful

whether he did this wittingly or unwittingly. Now none of the poets

was better known, or more celebrated at that age, than Virgil, whose

words, Haec ubi dicta dedit, Livy long ago had not hesitated to in­

troduce into his narrative. Numberless expressions from the same

author may be found in Tacitus, scattered here and there. More

rarely will you find the words of Horace ; as, Ann. XV., 37, Ex ilh

contaminatorum grege, coll. Carm. I., 37, 9, for I do not believe, that,

in common prose, eunuchs come under the term contaminati. No­

where, so far as I know, does he allude to Ovid, a writer entirely

unlike himself in taste and style, for I am not of the opinion that the

words in Agr. 44, were drawn from Ovid. Of prose writers he

quoted Sallust most frequently. From a comparison with Livy,

Trillerus has made a £ood correction in Hist. II., 80. Near the

close of Agricola he manifestly refers his readers to a most beautiful

passage of Cicero de Oratore. If I have rightly corrected Agr. 42,

he has there quoted verbatim the language of Seneca. It were easy

also to traoe resemblances between Tacitus, Demosthenes, Thucy-

dides, and Plato; and the verses of Homer are recognised in Hist. I.,

80 ; and Agr. 34.

Thus much concerning the style of Tacitus. If I had undertaken to

write a book on Tacitus, many topics would still remain to be discussed

touching the genius of the writer, and his political and religious

