book I. 307

Ttft

months being called the ordinary consuls, and giving their name to gg

the year. Cf. Die. Ant., Consul. The ordinary consuls for this year

were Galba and Vinius. Cf. 1. But they being slain on the 15th

of January, Otho and his brother were substituted (suffecti) to fill up

their time to the 1st of March. , ^

33. Praetexto exhibits the reason alleged by Otho. Cf. 76, note.

34r. Viennensium, to whom, therefore, wo infer that Vopiscus

belonged, though the author nowhere states the fact. Cf. Essay, p. 18.

36. SaMnis attaches to both Caelio and Flavio, who had the same

cognomen (cf. note, A. 4), and together with them is dat. after man-

eere. Flavius Sabinus, consul elect, is a different man from Flavius

Sabinus, brother of Vespasian, who was prefect of the city. Cf. 47,

and 2, 55, with which compare 2, 36. Or.—Julias and Septembres

agree with kalendas understood. Cf. 12.—Arrio Antonino. Mentioned

by Pliny as a writer of verses in Greek and Latin. Cf. Epis. 4, 3.

18. 5, 10. He was grandfather of Antoninus Pius the emperor. Or.

For a synoptical view of the consulships for this year, see the table, p. 26.

38. Poutificatus auguratusque. Acc. pi. in apposition with

cumulum dignitatis. In the age of the emperors, the number of

augurs and pontifices was indefinite, and the offices were conferred by

the emperors on whom they pleased, but particularly on those who

had already borne the highest civil honors. Though they had lost

much of their pristine sanctity and power, still both the pontificate

and the augurship were highly esteemed. The emperor himself was

always pontifex maximus. For the etymology of the word, and fur­

ther details, see Die. Gr. and Rom. Antiq., sub voce.

1 • Honoratis .... senibus. Any aged man who had already gg

been honored with the consulship and the like civil offices, but had not

received the sacred offices of pontifex and augur. Wr. restricts it

needlessly to those just mentioned, Caelius, Flavius, &c.—Aut dis­

tinguishes between the treatment of the senibus on the one hand,

and the adolesceniulos on the other. Cf. note on aut, A. 17. The

common editions have et.

3. Recolult. Iterum honoravit, vel iisdem, quibus avi ae patres

fuerant ornati. Rup. Dod. makes sacerdotiis dative after recoluit,

which he renders, restored to. And this construction seems to be

justified by such passages as 3, 7: recoli imagines Galbae jussit.

Sacerdotium includes both the pontiftcate and the augurship.—Cadio

Rufo. Cf. Ann. 12,22.

5. Repetundarum. Repetundae, or in full pecuniae repetundae,

denotes—1. Such sums of money as provinces or individuals might

recover from Roman magistrates, who had improperly received the

money in the discharge of any official function; 2. The illegal act

for which compensation was claimed. Here render: extortion, which

iB implied in avaritia, in the next clause. Cf. Fiske's Man. P. 3.263

