22 ESSAY ON THE

so far at least I think we ought to grant the indulgence to a writer

who is universally acknowledged to have entertained no very great

oorror of the charge of novelty. Irreverentia, improsper, do indeed

savor of novelty, as the invidentia of Cicero does, but they are con­

ceded to Tacitus by all. I have not hesitated to propose-by way of

correction, in Hist. II., 21, the strange frequentative retorlant. In

Ann. XVI., 21, expectabilis is sufficiently defended by the authority

of Tertullian; and I do not regret having recommended confestinan-

lius in Ann. XV., 3, and exaperlae in Hist. V., 13; or having de­

fended indictus favor in Hist. III., 44.

18. But as an innovator in the construction cf words he was ex­

ceedingly fruitful. He delighted in the unusual, as if itself an

ornament, even though he gained nothing either in brevity or grace

of style ; as if he remembered the precept of Horace,

Dixeris egregie, notum si callida verbum

Reddiderit Junctura novum.

l know not what other Latin author would have said ulilis pro nobis,

Agr. 12. I refrain from other examples, as they are obvious in every

part of his works. In the use of the historical infinitive also, he

differs from other writers by transferring it to present circumstances

and customs of long standing. I would not have believed it, had not

three instances conspired to prove it, still unchanged by all the per­

tinacious industry of editors, who, while they dispose of separate ex­

amples, have forgotten the others. These are Germ. 7, audiri;

Agr. 34, mere; and Dial. 30, insumere. I am inclined to think a

fourth ought to be added, Ann. III., 54, Tot a mqjoribus repertae

leges . . . contemptu abolitae securiorem luxum facere, where editors

have fecere; not to mention those places in which I have recalled the

usual infinitives from the MSS., Ann. I., 20; II., 2. 38; VI., 18;

Hist. IV., 20; to which I ought to add Hist. II., 95, Facem Auguslales

subdere; and III., 17, Quo pudore haud plures quam centum equites

resistere; and V., 10, Pace per Ilaliam parta el eocternae curae redire,

where editions have subdidere, and restitere, and rediere. For no

peculiarity of the Latin language might be expected to be more

pleasing to Tacitus, none can be imagined better adapted to his style,

so that I do not wonder that, in using it, he sometimes dared to go

beyond proper limits. He may have shown audacity, and almost

violence, but it would be a mark of even greater audacity and ex­

travagance for us, who were born so many ages after him, in oppo­

sition to so many examples, which are defended by the authority of

the MSS., and which not even the genius of the language convicts

of fault, to attempt forcibly to abridge this license, merely from a

