230 NOTES.

and defeats. He has been censured by some as a Machiavelli or a Latin

Xenophon, tl,e author of a Tiberiopaedia, whose design was to teach the art ot

tyranny in its perfection, and by others as the rigid, malignant and
misanthrop­

ic censor of princes and of mankind. Such contrad,ctory accusations may

well be left to balance and neutralize each other. No candid reader of Tacitus

can regard him as indiscriminate either in censure or in praise.* His worst

characters are not without their virtues, and his best show their
imperfections.

He denies, or holds in suspense, crimes which the public voice unanimously

charged upon the emperors, whom he treats with the most unsparing severity,

and has not made either Tiberius or Domitian so bad, as some other writers of

his age. In short, he manifestly intends to hold the balance of truth and jus­

tice with an even hand, and few have better carried out the intention neither

to " extenuate aught or set down aught in malice." It is to be regretted that

Tacitus did not take the pains to inform himself better touching the Jews and

Christians. But in this he erred only in common with all the great writers

and great men of his country (cf. Notes, 5,2), who were born and bred to de-

spiso and ridicule the Jews—ti hate and psrsecute the Christians.t Moreover,

notwithstanding his national prejudices, Tacitus expressly attests the inno­

cence of the Christians, who suffered under Nero, and commiserates their

sufferings (Ann. 15, 44), while ho narrates not a little that is true and com­

mendable of the Jews, and ascribes to the whole nation a creed touching the

divine nature more pure, more true, more sublime than had ever entered the

thoughts of any but the wisest sages of Greece and Rome (His. 5, 5). Tacitus

undertakes to write both his Histories and his Annals for the express reason,

that no impartial history of that period had been written (His. 1,1; Ann.
1,1),

but between the parasites and the bitter enemies of those in power, truth

and posterity had been forgotten. For himself, he professes perfect candor.

From Galba.Otho, and Vitellius, he had received neither benefits nor injuries.

The Flavian dynasty was now extinct, and, though they had all conferred

honors upon him, he could speak of them all, unswayed by favor and unawed

by fear. And nobly, it must be confessed, nobly does he redeem his pledge.

He does not spare the besetting sin of the soldier-like and truly imperial
Ves­

pasian (His. 1, 50; 2, 5; 2, 84, et al.). He does not conceal the youthful
vices

of Titus, "delight of the human race" (His. 2,2; 5,11). Still less does he

withhold his severest animadversions from Domitian (Agr. 39-43), whilo he

bears grateful testimony to the honors which he had received from him (Ann.

2,11; His. 1,1). He had abundant means of knowing the facts which he

recorded. Besides the extensive personal knowledge of which we have already

spoken, he had access to the public archives, to the records of the senate, to

the Acta Diurna or public journals of the city, to the Imperial Commentaries,

to the histories of Coesar, Livy, Pliny the Elder, and many other documents or

writers, whom he consults as authorities, but whose statements he thoroughly

sifts and seldom if ever adopts on mere trust. J In short, an air of
sincerity,

truthfulness and earnestness, a lofty appreciation of the purity and dignity
of

* Compare on this subject the Life of Tacitus in Agricola and Germania, p. 11,  
t In like manner, Roman writers have all done injustice to the Carthaginians

who might well repeat the complaint of the lions, that the men wrote the
history,

t See a collection of such authorities and examples of the caution with whicfc

he weighs them in Ituperti's Prolegomena, also in Boettichcr and others.

