BOOk in. 387

?H>

9. Inliumana securitas. Inhuman indifference. Cf. note, 2, ^O.jgg

10. Velut.... accederet. As if this pleasure also (sc. of see­

ing the fight) were added to the usual entertainments of these festive

days. The punctuation of the last clause is different in different edi­

tions, some placing a semicolon after exsvltabant, others after frue-

bantur, and others still, allowing no such pause. Exsultahant implies

more outward demonstrations of pleasure; fruebantur, inward enjoy­

ment. Imagination never portrayed a more vivid and moving picture

of mingled ferocity and voluptuousness than the pen of our historian

has sketched. Its credibility has been called in question. But Florus

(3, 21) affirms the same of the civil war between Marius and Sylla.

The last grievous calamity that befell the Romans, was a war waged

by parricides within the walls of Rome, in which citizens were engaged

against citizens with the rage of gladiators exhibiting a spectacle in the

forum.

Ch. LXXXIV.—13. Oppugnatione castrorum. The camp of

the praetorian guards, a little way out of the city, where it was first

located by Sejanus in the time of Tiberius. Ann. 4,2. Cf. Diet . Antiq.

sub voce, Praetoriani, and note, 1, 39: vocibus in urbem.

21. Becipiantur, sc. castra. The veteres cohortes, i. e. the old

praetorians discharged by Vitellius, might with special propriety speak

of retaking their old camp.

24. Suprema .... solatia. These words are in appos. with in-

quietare, morari and foedare, all which depend ou amplectebantur;

these acts of vengeance were the last solace of the conquered. Ernesti

understands by suprema ... solatia their wives and children!

2T. Contrariis vuineribus. With wounds in front. Versi in

hoslem (a superfluous clause in the view of some), gives the cause ol

this: since they faced the enemy to the last. So Wr.

Ch. LXXXV.—30. Sellula. Dim. of sella, on which see note,

1,27.

31. Diem stands opposed to noctu understood, when he would

have fled to Tarracina, had he escaped the peculiar dangers of the

day.

3T. Pudenda latebra. A dog's kennel, according to Xiph. 65,

20 ; according to Suet. Vitel. 16, the porter's lodge.

3. E .. . mllltibus. Doubtless one of the emperor's body-guard. JijjJ

4. Per iram, etc. T. here adverts to three distinct suppositions:

1. That the soldier aimed a hostile blow at Vitellius out of resentment;

2. That he did it out of compassion, to rescue him from further insults;

3. That the blow was intended for the tribune. According to Xiph.

65, 21, the soldier said, I will give you the best assistance in my pow­

er, and thereupon he stabbed Vitellius and dispatched himself.

11. Una vox. Al. vox una. Una vox has the authority of all

the MSS. and lays the emphasis, where it belongs, on the number.

