244 NOTES.

the same time perceive that there may be great and good men even under

bad princes—where we behold fortune, fate and the gods themselves, in a

manner wonderful and never sufficiently understood by mortals, direct the

changeful vicissitudes of human life, contemplating in the Annals the singu­

lar fatality that followed the Julian family to its utter extinction, in the
His­

tories the convulsive energies that were put forth to re-establish a vacant
and

tottering sovereignty, do we not seem to ourselves to be reading some tragedy

of /Eschylus, Sophocles or Euripides—does not the sorrowful image of Niobe

stand before our eyes—are we not stricken through with a kind of horror, as

if at the sight of Laocoon struggling in vain to disengage himself from the

crushing folds of the serpent ? Truly worthy of Tacitus, worthy also of the

majesty of the Roman empire, is the design to explain with becoming wis­

dom and diligence by what fate or fortune or succession of events ' jampridem

praevalentis populi vires se ipsae confecerint1*—what vices of the people or

their rulers provoked the justice and the vengeance of the immortal gods, and

precipitated the fall of so vast an empire! So, like a second Scipio, we
behold

Tacitus sitting not now on the ruins of Carthage, but on the soil of Rome her­

self, already tottering to her fall, and predicting with gushing tears the de­

struction of his country, and that not in words of elaborate and far-fetched

study, but in such obvious and to him spontaneous forms of pathetic eloquence,

as to present to the very eye the perfect image of that country* convulsed and

trembling on the verge of dissolution."

Livy is the only Latin historian who can at all contest the palm with Taci­

tus. We need not attempt accurately to adjust the balance between them.

It were no discredit to either of them to acknowledge the other to be his

superior. Indeed their merits are so unlike that they can hardly be brought

into direct comparison. There is no ratio between unlike quantities in mathe­

matics ; neither can the terms greater and less be predicated in the gross of

distinguished but diverse authors. In style, the pre-eminence must be con­

ceded to Livy. His amazing versatility, his infinite variety always pleases

and never tires. Unpretending narrative and elaborate description, concise

annals and discursive eloquence, succeed and relieve each other with an in­

exhaustible fertility—as the critics term it, with a lactea ubertas, both in

thought and language, "always fresh, always sweet, always pure." Tacitus,

it must be confessed, is wanting in variety and simplicity.t He does indeed

vary his construction and forms of expression infinitely, as Boetticher and

Doederleint have well illustrated. But he wants that higher variety and

beauty of historical composition, which results from telling a " fine story

finely" and " a plain story plainly." He is always treading the stage in his

high-heeled tragic buskins, and declaiming to a crowded amphitheatre at the

top of his voice. Doubtless his best passages far surpass any thing that can
be

found in Livy, for coloring and effect. But Livy on the whole is a more

pleasing book to the reader, and a safer model for the young writer. Livy is

tho author to be read continuously; Tacitus, to be taken up at intervals. The

one furnishes a wholesome variety of food for the mind; the other serves his

reader too exclusively with strong meats and stimulating condiments.

* Vid. Preface of Livy. t Vid. Life of Tacitus, p. 9.

* Vid. Essay on the Style of Tacitus.

