PREFACE. 6

likewise all the geographical, archaeological and historical il­

lustrations, that are necessary to render the author intelligi­

ble. The editor has at least endeavored to avoid the fault,

which Lord Bacon says " is over usual in annotations and

commentaries, viz. to blanch the obscure places, and discourse

upon the plain." But it has been his constant, not to say his

chief aim, to- carry students beyond the dry details of

grammar and lexicography, and introduce them into a famil­

iar acquaintance and lively sympathy with the author and his

times, and with that great empire, of whose degeneracy and

decline,in its beginnings,he has bequeathed to us so profound

and instructive a history. It was for this end, that the Pre­

liminary Remarks were composed ; and if they accomplish

this result in any considerable degree,, though long, they will

hardly be thought too long, and they will not have been

written in vain.

The Indexes have been prepared with much labor and

care, and, it is believed, will add materially to the value of

the work.

The editor takes this opportunity to express his grateful

sense of the kind reception which has been given to his edi­

tion of the Germania and Agricola, and his thanks especially

for such notices, whether by letter or in the public journals,

as, while they fully appreciate its merits, point out its faults

for correction. If this edition is in any degree more merito­

rious or less faulty, the superiority will be owing, in no small

measure, to such acts of kindness. Besides his obligations to

those who have thus favored him, he acknowledges his par­

ticular indebtedness to Professor B. B. Edwards of Andover,

and Professor H. B. Hackett of Newton, for the aid and en­

couragement, which they have in various ways extended to

him. He has been aided in the correction of the press by

Mr. Marshall Henshaw, whose accurate and patient scholar­

ship well fit him to render such and still higher services to

classical learning.

1*

