book I. 277

men to act as chance directs and without plan. Quam is omitted in

the MSS., and the reading is doubtful in forte et nulla. Observe the

conciseness of adhuc: no plan as yet, sc. matured.

5. Electos Illyrici exercitus. Cf. chap. 6. Celsus had been

an officer in that army. Ann. 15, 25.—Vipsania -portion. A portico

built by Vipsanius Agrippa in the field of Mars. Milites, qui extra

ordinem in urbe erant, agere plerumque solebant in porticibus nut

templis. Lipsius.—Tendentes, sc. stationem or excubias = stationed.

6. Primlpilaribus, sc. centurionibus. A :iost-Augustan word.

The first centurion of the first maniple of the triarii was called at

different times, primipilaris, or primipilus, or primi pili centurio

Cf. Liv. 2, 27. He was intrusted with the care of the eagle, and had

the right to attend the councils of the general.

1« I,ibertatis atrio. Where they were quartered, as the Illyrians

were in the Vipsanian portico. The word atrium denotes, 1. The open

area, surrounded by a colonnade, in the private houses of the Romans.

2. A class of public buildings so called from their general resemblance

in construction to the atrium of a private house, sometimes standing

by themselves, but more frequently attached to the front of a temple

or some other edifice. The atrium Libertatis here meant, was at­

tached to the Aedes Libertatis on tho Aventine. Cf. Smith's Diet, of

Gr. and Rom. Autiq., word Atrium.

8. Dtffidebat, sc. Piso. Al. diffidebatur, but without MS. authority

9. Trucidaverat Gaiba. Cf. note on chap. 6.

11. SI . ... flecteretur. Ang. to see if it might be turned

aside. It denotes both purpose and contingency, and of course requires

the subj. So the Greek el, ti,rus. This use of si is more frequent in

T. than in other Latin authors.

12. Et necdum. The use of necdum after et is peculiar to the

later Latin. Or. A writer of the Augustan age would have omitted

the et. Cf. Virg. Aen. 11, 70. Dod. speaks of the word itself as out

of date. Essay, p. 21. But see examples in Freund, from Cicero as

well as Virgil.

14. Noil ordine militiae. The common explanation of this

passage supplies tribunus factus fuerat: " Because he had been ir­

regularly promoted to the tribuneship of the praetorian guards." So

Brotier, Kingsley and many others. But Wr. thinks such an ellipsis

inadmissible, and supplies suspectus from the ant. clause: Because he

was not merely suspected, like Subrius and Cetrius, on account of

his rank and title as tribune (ordine = ob ordinem), but as a friend

of Galba, he teas loyal to his prince and thus still more an object of

suspicion.

IT. Ingestis pUis. Al. infestis. By pouring in their lances

upon him, they drive him away, compel him to retire.

18. Germanic* vexilla. The word vcxillum, whose meaning,

