240 NOTES.

from stage to stage of his history you are made acquainted with his conduct,

notice the lights and shades by which his character is brought out more and

more distinctly, till at length he stands before you, not so much a perfect
pic­

ture, as a living man, with not only his entire life but his whole heart naked

and open to your view. And do not fail to observe, how much of character is

developed often by a word or phrase. For example, in the last quotation: " a

dreadful carnage was a spectacle added to the public games—the' populace

enjoyed the havoc," what an emphasis of meaning there is in the words in

italics, and how they probe to the bottom the depths of corruption in the

hearts of the city populace ! So when Vitellius was met and escorted into the

city by an infamous band of pimps, of charioteers, of players and buffoons,

"all well known and dear to him by their utility in vicious pleasures,"
Tacitus

adds: " such were tho disgraceful connections of the emperor, and he enjoyed

them without a blush."* How much of Vitellius is exhibited in this single

stroke ! This is characteristic of Tacitus. No writer ever conveyed so much

knowledge of things, and especially so much insight into men, in so few words.

In like manner, the finisl,ing stroke in the portraiture of Galba (already
men­

tioned, p. 237) brings out as it were the whole nature of the man with all its

greatness and all its infirmities. So of Galba's adopted son, for whom he in­

spires us with a just reverence and love in half a dozen words: quasi imperare

posset, quam vellet. In like manner, he shows us the exact condition of the

Roman state in half a sentence, when he makes Galba say to Piso: " you are

called to rule over men who cannot endure either entire slavery or entire
free­

dom—jut nec lotam servitulem pati possunt, nee totam libertatem."

With tho accession of Vespasian to the throne, closes what is now extant

of the Histories of Tacitus. We have not even the record of his arrival at

Rome. While he was proceeding deliberately through Egypt towards the

imperial city, and busying himself partly in providing for the necessities of

the city, partly in discovering his own future fortunes by the aid of tho

Egyptian priests (His. 4, 81-8fi), Mucianus exercised all the prerogatives of

sovereignty in his stead; Domitian aspiring to usurp power which did not

belong to him, and failing in the attempt, gave himself up to dissipation;

and Titus, succeeding to his father's command in Judaea, was advancing to

the siege of Jerusalem (5,1-13). Such is the posture of affairs, when the His­

tories are brought suddenly to a close. The Jewish War is left incomplete.

The fragment which remains is invested with peculiar interest to the Chris­

tian, because it is so intimately connected at so many points with his holy

religion. Tacitus entertained many and violent prejudices against the Jews.

It is not strange that he did. They were too exclusive in their politics and

too intolerant in their religion, to be appreciated by any foreigners, most of

all by the liberal and polytheistic or free-thinking Romans. Accordingly

they received little mercy from Roman officers, and little sympathy from

Roman scholars. Despised as superstitious by the learned, and hated as sedi­

tious by the great at Rome, it is not surprising that Tacitus should de­

nounce them as a sordid, gloomy, unsocial and misanthropic race. It is in

fact but the very treatment they havo practically met with from the rest

of the world ever since. Not only prejudice against their singularities, but

* It will be seen that litis example is near the close of the 2d Book (ch. 87).

