20 ESSAY OST THE

matter so difficult and hazardous, (and when he seems to be so, it

happens oftener through the fault of transcribers than through his

own) : though not unfrequently when he strives to be sublime, he

becomes, not bombastic indeed, but he is thought to depart too far

from a proper simplicity.

15. And first, the style of Tacitus is terse, polished and elaborate.

Rarely, in comparison with his frequent use of other idioms, do we

find in his works those anacolutha,the use of which with other

writers presents the appearance, sometimes of a pleasing negligence,

sometimes of a disagreeable carelessness. I have noticed a few,

/?. g., in Ann. XII., 52; Hist. III., 60; IV., 12, etc..

If he sometimes so arranged his words as to appear to have

aringled different constructions, it ought not to be supposed that he

did this without a design: Ann. III., 5, Perferre non toleravit, as

Dial. 3, Maturare editionem festino, or, G. 30, Initium inchoate.

This appeared to him somewhat stronger than that common accumu­

lation of words, pertulit ac toleravit, which Cicero would prefer, as

if this latter would add to the number of words, while his own ar­

rangement would increase their power.

The concurrence of genitives, which is so annoying wherever it is

found, he carefully avoided, by employing the figure Hendiadys.

Of the nature and advantage of this figure C. Roth has treated in a

learned and critical manner.

16. Moreover he paid a tribute of regard to ornament, in that he

did not use special or trite words, particularly those which are called

technical terms. He avoided these even when he thus lost some­

thing in brevity. Hence, by a sort of circumlocution, he preferred

to write, Hist. III., 62, ludicrum juvenum rather than Juvenalia.

In Dial. 32, he says, almost obscurely, jus civitatis for jure civili;

whence has arisen confidence in the conjecture of Bach, which pro­

poses as a correction, in Hist. IV., 4, de hello civium for the corrupt

civilium, and the common correction civili. Perhaps the Medicean

MS. reads correctly, in Hist. II., 89, ponte Mulvi, where the editions

have Mulvio; since in Ann. I., 8; III., 4., he says campus Martis.

Hence in the distinction of Latin synonyms, the authority of Taci­

tus is more suspicious than that of poets. For he disregards (partic­

ularly in antitheses) and spurns set and trite words.

Kindred to this peculiarity is his rejection of foreign words, par­

ticularly from the Greek, even though they had been naturalized by

the Latins. Nowhere, except in the Dialogue, does he use the term

philosophi: he says, sapientes, although the ideas are unlike. He

rarely uses the term poeta: he generally says vates. Rejecting asylum,

tie says subsidium. There is a remarkable example of this kind in

