8 NOTES.

as also that of the corresponding word vexillarii, has been much dis­

puted, seems to have denoted, 1. The standard of the cavalry (as

signum was the standard of the smaller divisions of the infantry, and

aquila of the whole legion). 2. The standard of a detachment of

troops, drafted and dispatched for a specific purpose. 3. The standard

of a body of GOO veterans, attached (but not belonging) to each legion,

released from the military oath and free from ordinary duty, but re­

tained sub vexillo to render their assistance in the more severe battles,

hence technically called vexillarii. In each of these three senses, the

vexillum often stands for the troops that served under it. Here the

word is used in the second sense = the German vexillarii. Cf. 6,

where these same troops are called numeri e Germania, and are said

to have been electos praemissosque ad bellum in Albanos. For a full

discussion of this subject, see Ruperti's note on vexilla, A. 18. See

also Smith's Diet, of Antiq., on Roman Army.

19. Q,uod .... refovebat. Quod here gives a reason for a state

of mind; quia, just above, for an outward act. The reason in both

cases is an objective fact. Cf. note, 2, 19 : quod . . . legisset. Quando,

quandoquidem and siquidem, introduce only subjective reasons ; and

quoniam a motivo. Cf. Z. 346. Quia and quoniam are usually fol­

lowed by the indie, in Tacitus ; quod and quando by the indie, or the

subj., according to the design of the author. Quandoquidem and siqui­

dem seldom occur, the simple conjunctions being preferred by the author.

20. Inde rursus, sc. revocatos, which is implied in rursus accord­

ing to the figure prtegnantia. Cf. Essay, pp. 16. 17.

Ch. XXXII.—22. Universa = all united, all without exception.

Cf. Ramshorn and Leverett on the difference between universus, om-

nis, totus and cunctus. .

21' Ut si. Betwoen these words there is an ellipsis of poscerent.

So there is an ellipsis in our as if.

25. Judicium .... veritas. Not synonyms, as Ernesti supposed

them to be. Judicium = sober reason, veritas = sincerity.—Quippe

.... postulaturis. There is more or less of irony and sarcasm in

quippe (— quia-pe) here ; forsooth (= for-true) they were about to

demand at a later hour of the same day the opposite with equal earn­

estness. A graphic picture of the corrupt rabble under the Roman

emperors.

26. Tradito more limits adulabantur or some such verb implied

in adulandi, or a simple verb of doing may be supplied. Cf. Essay, p. 14.

30. Opponenda, sc. against the rebels.—Servitia. Abstract for

concrete.

31. Daret, sc. Galba. It is the subj. of the oratio obliqua, and

. would have been expressed by the imperative in the direct address to

Galba. Cf. Z. 603, (e); Arnold's Pr. Intr. 460. It depends, like mo-

ntndum, opponenda, etc., on censebat.

