248 NOTES.

12. Malignltati = obtrectatio et Uvor above.

15. A Domitiano. Ann. 11, 11. Cf. Life of Tacitus, pp. 5-6.

16. Abnuerim. For the mode and tense, cf. Gr. 260, R 4

Z. 527.—Nec .... odio = neque amore quisquam neque odio. En­

silage. Cf. Germania and Agricola passim.

IT. Q,uod si. And if. From the tendency to connect sen­

tences by relatives arose the use of quod beforo certain conjunctions,

particularly si, merely as a copulative. Cf. Z. 807; also Freund's

Lexicon, sub voce.—Principatum, properly civil government, and

hence appropriate to the peaceful reign of Nerva.—Imperium, properly

military command, and hence equally appropriate to the more warlike

Trajan. Cf. Dod. in loc.

18. DIvi Nervae. This implies that Nerva was already dead,

before this paragraph was written and before the history was pub­

lished. How much labor may have beeu bestowed on the work previous

to the composition of the introduction, we cannot tell. Cf. note, A. 3,

memoriam, etc.; also Preliminary Remarks, p. 233.

19. Uberiorem. The reign of Trajan was fruitful in great

events, in civil and military life, as well as in literature. Cf. Life of

T., pp. 6-7.—Securiorem. Wr. renders, more pleasing, lit . more free

from care (se-cura), anxiety, pain. But it may be rendered here, as

-usual, more safe, more secure, not indeed from personal danger, for  
the historian had nothing to fear for his person in treating either sub­

ject, but from the danger of giving offence to bad men or their de­

scendants, of whom there were not so many to be spokeu of in the

Life of Trajan, as in that for instanco of Domitian. Or. and Dod. refer

to the periculosae plenum opus aleae of Horace (Od. 2, 1, 6), as a

parallel passage.—Rara felicitate is not abl. abs. but abl. of cause or

accompanying circumstance = enjoying as I do that felicity of the

times which is so seldom enjoyed, when> etc. Observe that ubi,

properly an adverb of place, is here and often used as an adverb of time

Ch. II.—This chapter and the next present an outline of the lead­

ing events and prominent features of the history. The language is

concise as a table of contents, yet it abounds in the disjecta membra

poetao.

22. Opus. Lit. a work. But the epithets opimum, etc., apply

only to the period to which the work relates. Render: / propose to

write the history of a period, etc.

23. Ipsa pace instead of in ipsa pace^ior the sake of conciseness.

Cf. Essay on Style of Tacitus, p. 12.—Saevum. Or. and DBd. read

saevom, after the Medicean MS. The MSS. of Tacitus exhibit not a

few examples of the old orthography of the Latin language. But

they do not preserve consistency. Boetticher thinks that Tacitus

resorted to different modes of writing words for the sake of variety.

Cf. Prolegomena to his Lexicon Taciteum.

