PRELIMINARY REMARKS. 245

For the sentiments and moral lessons which they convey, the meed of praise

must be divided between them. Both are fruitful in instruction. The moral

taste of both is pure and elevated. And yet they are very unlike: Livy's,

sentiments appear to be drawn from books; Tacitus' are obviously the fruit

of his own observation and meditation. Tacitus is original and just in his

reflections; Livy is varied and beautiful. Livy is the more genial spirit j

Tacitus, the more sagacious and profound.

In the delineation of character, Tacitus is greatly the superior. The char足

acters of Livy want individuality. We are not made acquainted with their

distinctive features. Still less do we see the very bottom of their hearts.

In Tacitus every character stands out distinctly from the surrounding mass,

wears his own face, and acts out his own peculiar motives and impulses.

His heroes are as diverse as we know heroes are in nature; and in the whole

series of tyrants and monsters, whose history he writes, the reader would

no more confound their characters, than a contemporary and familiar ac足

quaintance would have mistaken their persons. Tacitus draws characters as

Shakspeare does in his dramas; Livy paints them too much like the sophist in

his declamations. Livy places before us the statues of heroes and gods;

Tacitus conducts us through the crowd of living men.

Livy is little more than an orator and scholar; Tacitus is also a statesman

and philosopher. Livy is the greater and better writer; Tacitus the greater
and

better man. We admire the former: the latter we reverence. Either might

inspire us with love; but Tacitus only can impress us with awe and fear.

Tacitus selects his incidents with chief regard to their truth and intrinsic

value; Livy, with a constant, not to say single, eye to their literary beauty

and picturesque effect. Livy is wholly a Roman. To him, the Roman empire

is the world. If he loved liberty, it was only Roman liberty. If he. extolled

the military skill and prowess of Hannibal, it was only that he might exalt

Rome herself, with her armies and commanders, to so much the higher

glory, as their conquerors. Tacitus is a man and reverences the manly vir足

tues, wherever he finds them. The best speech he ever wrote is put into

the mouth of a free and noble Briton. He half prefers the simple virtues of

the barbarous but free and independent Germans, to the splendid vices of

the cultivated but degenerate Romans. To him Arminius is none the less

a hero for being a German; and he complains (Ann. 2, 88), that the Greeks

embellished nothing but their own story, while the Romans, absorbed in the

veneration of antiquity, did injustice alike to all contemporary achievements.

In a word, Livy was born to compose the history of the rise and giory

of the Roman empire; Tacitus of its decline and fall. It was the voeation

of Livy to compose a great prose epic in honor of his country. It was the

mission of Tacitus to write a magnificent historical tragedy for the instruc足

tion and warning of mankind.

24*

