STXXE OF TACITUS. 13

Ann. XIV., 38, Adversa pravitaii ipsius,prospera ad fortunam

referebat.

I will add some instances in which the more unwonted use of the

dative has, from its unfrequency, escaped the notice of commenta­

tors, or may, from its resemblance to the ablative, escape the notice

of the reader; Hist. I., 89, Pads adversa reipublicae pertinuere;

G., 38, Propriis nationibus discreii; as, Hist. IV., 16, Propriis cu-

neis componit; Hist. I., 77, Sacerdoiiis recoluit, i. e., in sacerdotia res-

tiiuU; Hist. I., 55. 76, Sacramento adigere. Moreover, he uses the

dative for adversus, with the accusative; A. 30, famae defendit, i. e.,

adversus famam. On the contrary, he sometimes prefers a preposi­

tion to the ordinary dative, when it will serve his purpose; Ann. II.,

39, Forma haud dissimili in dominum erat; and he substitutes in

vulgus for the dative vulgo, see in Hist. I., 71.

7. He is no less sparing in the use of coryunciims, and is peculiarly

fond of asyndeta. The style of the Latins differs very much in the use

of asyndeta from that of the Greeks. For since the Greeks make use

of very many exceedingly small conjunctions, and such as often do not

even form a syllable, as in elision U and rl, they were not accustom­

ed, merely for the sake of brevity or convenience, to omit conjunc­

tions, but they omit them as often as it will subserve the purposes of

rhetoric. It is different with the Latins; since their conjunctions

have a fuller soun&and, in their length, equal many nouns and

verbs, as aulem, qwalem, igitur, it was worth while, for the sake

of rapidity and conciseness, to be sparing in the use of them. Thence

the books of the Latins abound in asyndeta, even where they have

no peculiar significance or rhetorical power. Owing to the unprece­

dented frequency with which he uses this liberty, the style of Tacitus

is considered, for the most part, concise, and similar to that which the

French call style coupe. For its character is seen, not only in its y/

refraining from the longer forms of propositions, but also in its gen­

erally omitting connectives between the separate propositions.

The peculiarity of Tacitus is seen in his frequent omission of the

two conjunctions et and sed. Most Latin writers omit the copulative et

as often as, by the rhetorical figure asyndeton, three or more separate

parts of a sentence are connected together, since they dislike to use -

many conjunctions in the same sentence. But Tacitus joins two

members in the same way, in accordance with a custom of the an­

cient Romans, which Niebuhr has noticed.* Examples are too nu­

merous to require specification. Moreover, it is customary with'

Tacitus to omit sed, especially after negative propositions. Ann. IV;,

* Rom. Gesch., T. i., p. 326, ed. third

2

