242 NOTES.

preface, as it were, is preserved—the principal part of the work, the history
o:

the Flavian Family, has perished. We cannot but mourn over the irreparable

loss.* We feel, that we cannot afford to lose any thing from so instructive

and attractive a pen. Especially after wading through the chaotic and bloody

scenes in the reigns of Galba, Otho and Vitellius, we are unwilling to be de­

nied the pleasure of reaching solid ground once more, and looking on the

peace, order and comparative happiness that spring up under the auspices of

Vespasian and Titus, as they are painted by the same master hand. The

siege of Jerusalem, with its amazing feats of valor and its more amazing

scenes of calamity and suffering—what a subject for the pen of Tacitus! We

would fain follow the beautiful and brilliant Titus through the glories of his

military triumphs to the brighter glories of his virtuous and happy, but too

short reign. And we burn to see the fratricide and tyrant Domitian writhing

under the just vengeance of the prince at once of historians and of satirists.

Such a period—with such characteristics as our author briefly and vividly

sketches in his introductory chapters (1, 2. 3)—is not the most favorable to
the

excitement of historical interest. The leading characters are for the most

part both weak and wicked, at once odious and contemptible. And it is with

extreme difficulty, that a history is made to sustain an interest, which does

not attach to its leading characters. Still, as Tacitus intimates in the
begin­

ning of his third chapter, such a period is the very theatre for the display
of

the most heroic virtues in those private individuals who have the moral cour­

age to breast the current of the times. And we shall find our historian's
pages

adorned with biographical episodes and tributes of honor to many such noble

souls.

The great Halicarnassian critic would condemn Tacitus, as he did Thu-

cydides (Dion. Halicarn. Epis. ad Cn. Pomp.), for selecting a period so fruit­

ful in disasters and disgrace to his country. But the historian is not re­

sponsible for the events which he records, any more than the messenger is for

the news he bears. He may be a truer patriot at heart and may render more

important services to his country, who sets up beacons at the points of her

danger, than l,e who rears monuments on the fields of her triumph. The

patriotism of Herodotus and Livy exults in the glory of their country; that of

Thucydides and Tacitus mourns over her shame. The muse of the former is

full of buoyancy and hope—she advances in the animated though stately air

of a triumphal march, and ever and anon is heard singing paeans. The muse

of the latter is grave, thoughtful and melancholy—she sits absorbed in sorrow­

ful meditations and gloomy forebodings—or she moves- at a sad and solemn

pace and utters " more hearselike harmonies than carols"—or now again, like

another Cassandra, she starts up, as in a fit of prophetic phrensy, and pours

forth wild and piercing cries of alarm. These warnings came too late for the

salvation of their countrymen: but the histories of the commotions and civil

wars, which these great masters of their art have composed, are more in­

structive to posterity, than all the foreign conquests and victories, whether
of

Greece or Rome, which Herodotus and Livy have recorded. Inferior writers

* The Medicean MS., which alone contains the first six books of the Annals,  
was found in a monastery of Westphalia, as late as the sixteenth century.
Would

that we might still cherish the hope of recovering more or less of the lost
decade

»f the Histories.

