10 ESSAY ON THE

ries are told even about Thucydides, of such a carefu, choice respecfr

ing substantives and infinitives; but Tacitus lived at an age which

was much richer in the rules of grammar and rhetoric, and, as was

natural for a Roman, he strove more earnestly than the Greeks to

render his style as effective as possible. Wherefore to that hurried

breviloquence, to which he was led by the impulses of his nature, he

superadded all the ornaments of learning, art and taste, not fearing

the appearance or the reproach of a labored brevity, but freely reject­

ing the merit of a plain, pure and natural style. Now this brevity is

seen in choosing the shortest words which will express the thoughts,

in omitting as many words as possible, and finally in condensing the

sentences themselves within the smallest possible compass.

3. To commence with the smallest matters, he generally prefers the

shorter forms of words to the longer, sometimes contrary to common

usage. Few, I think, use simple ut for velut, as if, as he does in

Ann. II., 34; HI., 9; or for front, Ann. I., 61; Hist. II., 46: qua

for quatenus, since, even at the hazard of obscurity, Ann. VI., 10;

XL, 8 ; XV., 72; Hist. II., 31: super for insuper, Hist. II., 34. For

the same reason he often used ne, where the common rule required

ut non, e. g., Ann. II., 29. Ita moderans ne lenire neve asperare

crimina viderelur, Add. XL, 15, 29 ; XII., 47 ; XVI., 4 ; Hist. EI.,

11. If we can put confidence in the MSS. he also often used que

for quoque. See in Ann. IV., 74; VI., 33; XII., 35.

Tacitus often manifests a sort of dislike for substantives ending in

fto; for besides their length they are somewhat barren of meaninc

He therefore prefers aemulalus, dispositus, advectus, and such like

words, to aemulatio, and those of a similar form. Hence I have

defended diversus in Ann. XIII., 9; and pulsus in Hist. IV., 18, as

the true reading. Elsewhere he is wont also to employ the primitive

noun in place of the derivative, as in Ann. VI., 5, Dial. 3, fdbulae

for confabulaliones; G. 26, fenus fovfeneratw; Hist. II., 2, audew-

tioribus spatiis for spatiationiius. And since the use of deponent

verbs had long prevailed, by which means the language was virtually

robbed of an equal number of passive verbs and thereby impoverished,

Tacitus did not hesitate to return to the ancient signification of such

words, and to use passives that were obsolete in his age, gaining the

advantage of brevity, and, at the same time, the appearance of an­

tiquity. Hence adipisci is used passively in Ann. XV., 12 ; opperiri,

Ann. XI.,' 26; ulcisci, Ann. I., 9 ; and palari, Hist. III., 80; perhaps

also fateri, Dial. 25.

4. The use of simple words ii stead of compound is very extensive,

In which Tacitus vies with poets. The principle of this license is

no other than to substitute the genus for the species ; for instance,

