232 NOTES.

the second century, cites the speculations of Tacitus touching the origin of
th«

Jews, as occurring in the fifth Book of his Histories, and thus shows, that ■

his day the works were distinct and the Books wera numbered separately, as

they are now. And that they were intended to form separate treatises, is de­

monstrated by incontrovertible evidence external and internal. This is suffi­

ciently apparent from the introductory chapters, which are manifestly prefa­

tory in both, and which mark the limits of the two works, as entirely
distinct,

though chronologically successive. Tacitus expressly calls his Annals by that

name (Ann. 3, 65; 4, 32; 13, 31), while he refers to the Books in which he had

composed the history of Domitiau, as a separate work (Ann. 11, 11). And

Pliny refers with equal explicitness to the latter under the title of
Historiae

(Ep. 7,33). There remains therefore no reasonable doubt, that Tacitus him­

self gave to his two great historical compositions the same distinguishing
titles

which they now bear. To the question, what distinction he thus intended to

mark, different answers are returned by critics and defended with much learn­

ing and zeal.

One difference seems to lie on the face of the works, as chronologically re­

lated to the author. The Histories cover the age of the historian himself; the

Annals embrace a period anterior to his appearance on the stage of active

life. And this distinction accords with the original and proper signification
of

the word history, which in Greek implies personal inspection or investigation,

and which many Greek and Latin authors carefully distinguish, not only from

tradition and hearsay, but also from the authentic records of bygone days.*

Another obvious difference is suggested by the literal meaning of the word

annals, which was originally applied to the yearly register of passing events

kept by the Pontiffs (Annales Maximi or Annales Pontificum), and then to

the chronicles of Pictor, Piso and others who were the pioneers of the Roman

historians, and which in its etymology implies a strictly chronological
arrange­

ment of the events that occur year by year. This also accords with the actual

difference between the Histories and the Annals of Tacitus. The Histories

narrate events according to their geographical connection, or the relation of

cause and effect, or they adopt, on rhetorical principles, the arrangement

which will produce the most picturesque and striking impression. The Annals,

on the contrary, follow strictly the chronological order, relating under each

year the events of that year and no other (cf. Ann. 4, 71: mum quaque in

annum referre), or if they depart from it, they offer such an apology, that
the

exception demonstrates the rule (cf. Ann. 12, 40).

Other distinctions have been drawn between annals and history, such as

these—that annals are a simple detail of facts, while history further investi­

gates the causes and consequences of the events which are recorded; and that,

while annals are written in a straight-forward, inartificial and unadorned
style,

history is composed in a more studied, ornate and flowing diction,
descriptions

of countries and battles are interwoven with the narrative, fictitious
speeches

are introduced, such as the speaker or actor might have made whether he did

make them or not—in short, history is a work of art, as much so as an oration,

* Cf. Plutarch: loroptjaai t"hv ,t6\,v; Palasphatus: yiypa,pa raSra, oi>x oia %v  
AtySptva, aAA' avrbs IxsXSStv Ral laropriGas; jElian: oi,K aKoijv Mye,v dAAd
Iotq-

fh»; and Verrius Flaccus, as cited by Aulus Gellius, Noct. Att. 5, 18.

