1-KELIMINAHV REMARKS. 233

or an epic or tragic poem. Both these views have received the sanction ol

great names (cf. Aulus Gellius, Noct. Att. 5,18), and the latter is stamped

with the authority of Cicero (De Orat. 2,12; De Legg. 1,2).* These distinc­

tions doubtless hold in reference to the Roman annals in general as compared

with the standard histories, whether of the Romans or the Greeks. But they

apply only in a limited measure to the Histories and the Annals of Tacitus.
His

Annals, not less than his Histories, are marked by profound reflection on the

causes and consequences of events—by deep research and penetration into the

principles of human action. And though the rigidity of structure, which be­

longs to the very nature of annals, and the extreme conciseness, which was

demanded by so vast and comprehensive a subject as that of the Annals of

Tacitus, are unfavorable to ornament, yet they abound in animated descrip­

tions, eloquent speeches and pictures of human conduct and character drawn

with great power and true to the life. The Histories have been compared to

an epic poem, of which the subject is the fortunes of the Flavian family, and

all the collateral topics, that are treated, come in by way of prelude or
episode.

There is still more of the dramatic element both in the Histories and the An­

nals, which may well be considered as a prolonged tragedy or a series of
trage­

dies, whether we contemplate the more than tragic horror of most of the inci­

dents, or the consummate art and power with which, they are combined and

described.

The Annals are the author's last work. That they were written subsequent­

<y to the Histories, we learn from the incidental testimony of the historian

himself (Ann. 11,11). That they were not completed till near the close of the

reign of Trajan, is inferred from Ann. 2, 61, where he speaks of the
boundaries

of the Roman empire as already extended to the Red Sea, which was done by

Trajan in the 17th year of his reign, A. v. c. 868; a. d. 115. The Histories

also were given to the world in the same reign—in what year is not known,

though Trajan had already reigned so long and performed such achievements,

that Tacitus had formed a purpose of writing his history together with that ot

the deified Nerva (His. 1,1). The Biography of Agricola was issued near the

commencement of the same reign, as a sort of forerunner to the Histories, of

which it contains an announcement (of. A. 1, and Notes, ibid.), and which

must therefore have been already contemplated, if not actually begun at that

time. The Treatise on Germania was published not far from the same time

with the Agricola (cf. Special Introductions to those Treatises). The Dialogue

de Claris Oratoribus, if the work of Tacitus, was doubtless a much earlier
pro­

duction. Accordingly it betrays the author's youth in its playful humor and

lively emotions, in its exuberance of fancy and the excessive ornaments of its

style. Moreover the other works, though all composed in the full strength of

manhood, exhibit a gradual progress in maturity of thought, in depth of feel­

ing and in gravity of expression, in the same order in which they were
written.

The German Manners and the Life cf Agricola abound in poetic fancies,

lively conceits and artificial periods, which he afterwards learned, or chose,
in

a measure to retrench. Besides the one of these was professedly a pane­

gyric, and the other in spirit, though not in form and main design, a satire

* See on this general svbject Smith's Diet, ot Gr. and Rom. Antiq. under  
4nnals; also the Prolegomena of Walther, Rupert! and others.

20*

