boOK I. 251

t.t•

and Ruperti, propose to expunge rt at ouce, as a mere gloss. Andgcj

they have good reason to be dissatisfied with most of the comments,

for, almost without exception, they either sacrifice the force of ipsa, or

make necessitas something quite different from necessitates, which,

though maintained by Dod., is not borne out by the usage of Tacitus,

and can hardly be supposed in such a juxtaposition as this. But does

not the following interpretation avoid both these objections and meet

all the demands of the passage ? Illustrious men were reduced to

the last necessities (involving or threatening death); the necessity

itself was endured with fortitude, and the deaths (which ensued)

were equal to the glorious deaths of the ancients. Ipsa thus marks

the antith. between necessitas and exitus; while necessitas is distin­

guished from exitus and identified with necessitates, as it manifestly

should be.

16. Exitus. See the word used in like manner in the pl of the

deaths of Cassius and the Brutuses, Ann. 1, 10, which passage may

also illustrate the kind of exitus that is meant here.

17. Prodigia = prodicia. The letters G and C were originally

identical; hence the resemblance in form. See Zumpt's Lat. Gr.

So negotium = nec-otium, &c.

20. Justis = luculentis, manifestis. Rup. Magis justis in-

diciis. More conclusive proofs.—Before esse ultionem, the antith

particle sed is understood. It is ofteii omitted by T.

Ch. IV.—22. Repetendum. Necessary to go back, and de­

scribe the existing state of things prior to the date of the history,

i. e. from the death of Nero to the second consulship of Galba, cf.

note 1: Galba .... consules. For a fuller account of this interval

between the close of the Annals and tho beginning of the Histories,

the reader may consult Suetonius' Nero and Galba; Plutarch's

Galba; Dio. 63,22, seqq. &c.—Componam. For the mode and tense,

cf. Gr. 263, 3 ; Z. 576.

25. Q,uid luerit. Subj. Cf. Gr. 265 ; Z. 552.

26. Fortuiti. Inexpectati et haud promissi, non in se, sed quoad

nos. So Brotier. But Tacitus probably means more than this, viz.

that particular events (as for instance the rise of Otho and Vitellius,

rather than any other ambitious men of their day, and the victory of

the latter rather than the former), are the result of accident or for­

tune ; but at the same time there were general principles or causes at

work, which rendered certain and necessary these o;- similar evonts:

and these causes, even more than those fortuitous events, it is the

province of history to investigate. Cf. Wr. in loc. The wonderful

sagacity and wisdom with which Tacitus has accomplished this end,

constitute a chief merit of his history.

2T. Ut ita. Though .... yet. Z. 726.

30. Legioues ducesque, sc. in the provinces, foris being under-

