PRELIMINARY REMARKS. 243

may thrill their readers with a spirited detail of Roman triumphs; but it re­

quired the genius of Tacitus to fathom the depths of Roman degeneracy and

corruption, and bring forth instruction and even delight from the shortlived

and ill-starred reigns of Galba, Otho and Vitellius. Tacitus himself felt
deeply

the degradation of his country, and the consequent inferiority of his subject
to

the more brilliant and imposing events of Rome's earlier history. " No man

will think of comparing these Annals," he says (Ann. 4, 32), and the same

remarks are applicable for the most part to the subject-matter of the
Histories

—" No man will think of comparing these Annals with the historians of the old

republic. Those writers had for their subject wars of the greatest magnitude,

cities taken by storm, kings overthrown and led into captivity; and when

from those scenes of splendor, they turned their attention to domestic occur­

rences, they still had an ample field before them; they had dissensions be­

tween the consuls and the tribunes; they had agrarian laws, the price of corn,

and the plebeian and patrician orders inflamed with mutual animosity.

Those were objects that filled the imagination of the reader and gave free

scope to the genius of the writer. The work in which I am engaged, lies in a

narrow compass; the labor is great, and glory there is none. A long and

settled calm, scarce lifted to a tempest; wars no soonar begun than ended; a

gloomy scene at home, and a prince without ambition or even a wish to en­

large the boundaries of the empire: these are the scanty materials that lie

before me. And yet materials like these are not to be undervalued; though

slight in appearance they still merit attention, since they are often the
secret

spring of the most important events."

Such is the modest estimate which Tacitus put upon his subject and his

treatment of it. Posterity has judged more favorably of both. Lord Mon-

boddo,* the severest of all the critics on his style, has well said: " His
subject,

I think, is grand and noble. It is the history of the fall of a great^people,

greater than any that ever existed in arms and government, and in the extent

and duration of their empire. Other nations may have been more glorious in

their'rise or in their prosperity, but none was ever so great in its fall; and

the period of Tacitus's history affords more extraordinary examples of virtues

and vices, sometimes mixed in the same man, than are to be found anywhere

else in the history of mankind. For the Romans are great in their vices as

well as their virtues, and in both almost exceed humanity. In treating this

subject, Tacitus never falls below the dignity of it, nor is it, I think,
without

reason, that he speaks himself of the gravity of his work. He shows him­

self everywhere a lover of virtue anu of virtuous men, and expresses in the

strongest terms his detestation of cruelty and every kind of vice. He speaks

with admiration of philosophy and its teachers, knowing that it was philoso­

phy that had produced those extraordinary characters which he celebrates,

such as that of Thrasea Partus and Helvidius Priscus."

"In reading his Ann lis and Histories,! where we seethe baffled and in­

effectual efforts by which individuals worthy of a better age strive to bear
up

against the cruelty of tyrants and the general corruption of morals, and at

» Vid. citation in the Life of Tacitus, p. 9.

t This paragraph is translated from Boetticher's Prolegomena to his Lexicon

Faciteum.

