BOok I. 258

at this time applied only to the emperor and his sons. The nanesg^

and forms of the republic were carefully preserved under the emperors.

—Forma = beauty of person.—Decore — grace of manners. Wr.

Ch. VIII.—16. Tanquam .... multitudine. As might be ex­

pected in so great a multitude, sc. that there would be those taking

such views of the character of Galba and his friends, as have been

described in the previous chapter. This explanation of Or. seems

preferable to that of Wr., who interprets the clause thus: so far as it

is possible to describe the state of mind in so great and so various a

population.

1T. E provinciis. Of the provinces. Antith. to Romae. No­

tice the emphatic position of both at the beginning of the sentence.

18. Cluvius Rufus. Cf. Ann. 13,20 ; His. 1, 76; 2, 65 ; 4,43 ;

Suet. Nero, 21. He was a writer of history. Pliu. Epis. 9, 19.—Pads

artibus. Roth, Rhenanus and others supply expertus, as involved by

zeugma in inexpertus, and render: experienced in the arts of peace.

See the principle of this interpretation, Essay on the Style of Tacitus,

p. 15. But Wr., Rup. and Ernesti make artibus abl. of quality (Gr.

211, R 6), and render: endowed with the virtues of peace. Cf.

Ann. 1, 19: Blacsus multa arte dicendi.

19. Vindicis. Julius Vindex, propraetor of Gaul under Nero,

himself descended from a line of Gallic kings though his father was a

Roman senator, stirred up the Gauls to revolt from Nero and incited

Galba to claim the throne. He was defeated and slain by Verginius,

1, 51; 4, 57. His memory would of course lead the Gauls to favor

Galba.

20. Dono .... civitatis. Claudius had conferred the gift of

Roman citizenship upon the Gallic chiefs (Ann. 11, 23), but Galba

gave it to all who had taken part with Vindex. The wise distribution

of this favor was a source of great power and influence to the Roman

state, cum id rarum, nec nisi virtuti pretium esset. Of its value to in­

dividuals wo have a striking example in the life of Paul, Acts, 16,

37. 38 ; 22, 25-29. Cf. also Cic. in Ver. 5, 62 : civis Romanus sum.

It was now conferred with too unsparing a hand, and finally lost its

value when Caracalla bestowed it indiscriminately on all the inhabit­

ants of the Roman empire.

ftS. Recentis victoriae, sc. over Vindex under the command of

Verginius. This victory was of course a source of pride ; but it was

also a ground of vexation (irati), anxiety (solliciti) and fear (metu),

because though a real service to the «tate for which they deserved

reward, it was rendered to Nero, and was more likely to be punished

than rewarded by Galba.

26. Metu, tanquam, etc. = fear, that they would be regarded

as having favored another party, sc. than Galba's, viz. that of Ver­

ginius. For the subj., cf. Gr. 263, 2; Z. 572.

