STYLE OP TACITUS. 21

Ann. XV., 71, Miliehus praemiis dilatus, Conservatoris nomen Graeco

ejus rei vocabulo assumpsit. Yet he does not maintain so rigid and.

offensive an observance of this peculiarity as to avoid the use of

whatever has a foreign sound; he admits some such words, as tropaea,

asylum, chlamys, catapulla, acinaces.

17. He hesitated not to revive ancient words, and forms of words,

wlich had been condemned by the refinement of the Ciceronian and

the Augustan age, believing that there is more brilliancy in that which

savors of antiquity. Editors have retained the datives senatu, nuru,

luxu, as also in Ann. IV., 55, Persi for Persei; but at the same

time they have rejected many ancient forms, lest Tacitus should ap­

pear too unlike Cicero. In Ann. IV., 32, the Medicean MS. has

compossivere, and not composuere; and Ann. XIII., 40; Hist. III.,

22, cornum not cornu. It is easy indeed to correct such expressions

according to the usage of Cicero, and to ridicule and charge with

superstition those who rest their judgment upon the authority of a

single MS. But if it is right carefully to pursue truth even in the

smallest matters, if it is right to reverence even with pious feeling not

only the sentiments but the literary tastes and little preferences of

great, geniuses, there is nothing—in matters which cannot be settled

by any laws of human reason nor decided by any acuteness of judg­

ment—there is nothing which I will trust sooner than even a single

MS. It should, therefore, be well considered, whether, as in Germ.

24, juvenior is retained without any other example; so in Ann. VI.,

17, venditio et emitio ought not to be retained, for which emptio is

now read; and in Ann. IV., 66,1 have preferred to change the cor­

rupt telerani into ietulerant rather than into tulerant. Editors have

retained other readings also, which had long since gone out of date,

as Hist. I., 31, necdum for nondum; and Ann. ILL, 2, munera fungi.

Nay, even the genitive vis has succeeded in maintaining its place,

Dial. 26. And yet Ann. XIV., 7, expergens; Ann. I., 1, false; Ann.

LL, 14, the singular sacri for hostiae; Hist. I., 53, decori juventa,

which are in no respect more unusual, have not obtained the same

indulgence. It is surely a questionable scrupulosity which refuses

such words to a writer who desired to be unique, and who did not

even obtain an imitator, by a comparison with whom one can deter­

mine what he did and what he did not approve.

On the other hand, Tacitus, in my opinion, coined few new words ;

unless, perchance, same one may think that all those words, which

are found in his writings alone, were of course originated by him.

But it is extremely difficult to decide whether Tacitus was the first

to use any word, or whether we read it for the first time in his wri­

tings. So long as he corresponds to all the rules for forming words,

