426 NOTES.

2 Jg this passage of T., Luke's account of the people praying without, while

Zachariab went into the temple to burn incense (L. 1, 9. 10).—Assyr-

ios penes. Observe the anastrophe, of which T. is peculiarly fond.

2T. Despectissima, etc. See remarks at close of notes, 2, supra,

and Preliminary Remarks, p. 236.

28. Macedones. Alexander and his successors, who reigned in

Syria till its conquest by the Romans.—Praepotuere. Observe the

force of the prae : before others, pre-eminently.—Rex Antiochus. An-

tiochus Epiphanes, the cruel enemy and persecutor of the Jews, king

of Syria, a. c. 176-164.

31. Nam... . desciverat. This passage involves so serious a

chronological difficulty, that the commentators resort to emendations

of the text to effect a solution. Arsaces, the founder of the Parthian

ftiate, revolted from Antiochus II. almost a century before the war oJ

Antiochus Epiphanes with the Jews. Wr., Or. and Dod. suppose that

T. confounded the two Antiochi, and thus fell into an anachronism.

Ernesti regards the passage as an interpolation. Brotier and Rup.

suggest emendations. The Bipontines understand by Arsaces, one of

the successors of Arsaces I., for it became the family name. Cf. note,

1, 40: Arsacidarum. This will remove the difficulty, if we may also

take desciverat in a sense applicable, not to the original revolt, but to

the continued rebellion aud war; for that Antiochus Epiphanes wa*

engaged in a war with the Parthians appears from the first and second

Books of the Maccabees, where, as in the poets, they are called Persians.

32. Macedontbus Iuvalidis. The successors of Antiochus Epi­

phanes were comparatively feeble sovereigns.—Nondum. Not yet.

The Parthians afterwards got possession of Judaea. Cf. 9.

33. Sibl.... Imposuere. The Maccabees, having thrown off

the yoke of Syria, at length made the high-priesthood hereditary in

the Asmonaean family, and finally assumed the name of kings, and

transmitted it together with the regal power (which they had long ex­

ercised) to several generations. Kingly power, however, corrupted

the truly virtuous and heroic character which originally belonged to

the family, and they became for the most part monsters in crime and

cruelty, and reigued only amid commotions till the Romans extended

their conquests over Judeea. Cf. Joseph. B. J., B. 1.

219 Ch. IX.—1. Romanorum. Placed first in emphatic opposition to

the Macedonians, Parthians, etc., spoken of in the last section.—Do-

mu.it. a. v. c. 691 ; b. c. 63. Pompey was invited to Jerusalem by

the rival claimants of the kingdom.

2. Templum, etc. He entered not only the outer temple, but the

holy of holies, abstaining however from plunder and content with im­

posing an annual tribute. Cf. Joseph. Ant. J. 14, 4; Flor. 3, 5 ; Cic.

pro Flac. 28.

3. Nulla effigie. Al. nullas effigies. Ad rem, cf. 5: nulla

