PRELIMINARY REMARKS. 23B

burned and scenes of horror enacted, little less tragical than the sacking and

conflagration of Cremona. Vitellius stalked about his palace, like a ghost,
af­

frighted by its emptiness and desolation, till weary of wandering he took
refuge

under the bed in the porter's lodge. But he was soon discovered, dragged

forth from his pudenda latebra, loaded with insults and put to death by re­

peated wounds. In narrating these scenes of strife and horror, the historian

catches the inspiration of his subject, and, like the great epic poet of the
Greeks',

gathering strength and fervor as he proceeds, rises into unwonted and almost

unrivalled eloquence. Witness the series of battles and assaults, which end

in the destruction of Cremona by the troops of Antonius. No book of fiction

was ever more full of marvellous incidents; and no novelist or poet ever por­

trayed them in livelier or stronger colors. The whole passage (His. 3, 15-34)

can hardly be matched for power in historical description, while for laying

bare the workings of the human heart in excited and struggling masses of men,

it stands, we believe, without a parallel in history.* See first, how he
exposes

to the reader's view the secret motives and sordid passions ot Antonius' men,

when, after having defeated two distinct bodies of the enemy's troops, they

came in sight of Cremona (ch. 19). Again, look at the lively and moving

picture of the calamities and crimes incident to civil war, which is grouped

around the lifeless body of a father slain unintentionally by the hand of his

own son in the 25th chapter. It is a truly Homeric episode, full of tenderness

and pathos, relieving for the moment and yet enhancing in the end the im­

pression made by protracted scenes of indiscriminate slaughter on the battle­

field. Scarcely less Homeric is the description in the 28th chapter of a
renew­

ed and desperate assault upon the city, ending in those frightfully energetic

words: integri cum sauciis, semineces cum exspirantibus volvuntur, varia

pereuntium forma et omni imagine mortium. - Then to crown the whole,

read the description of the sacking and conflagration of Cremona (ch. 33),

where " in so vast a multitude, as different in their language as their
manners,

composed of Roman citizens, allies and foreign auxiliaries, all the fell
passions

of mankind were crowded together—where nothing was unlawful, nothing

sacred, since each soldiei had his peculiar notions of right and wrong, and

what one scrupled another dared to execute." Yet even this is exceeded by

the mingled scorn and pity, bitter sarcasm and tragic pathos, with which our

author sets forth the shameful and shocking scenes of burning and pillage, of

rioting and revelling, which attended the close of Vitellius' disgraceful
reign,

in the midst of the imperial city, when " whatever the libidinous passions can

inspire in the hour of peace was mixed with all the slaughter and horrors of

war—the whole city seemed to be inflamed with frantic rage, and at the same

time intoxicated with bacchanalian pleasures—a dreadful carnage was a

spectacle added to the public games— the populace enjoyed the havoc; they

exulted in the midst of devastation, and without any regard for either of tho

contending parties, triumphed over the miseries of their country." Those,

who cannot read the whole of the Histories, should by all means read the third

Book. It is almost the only extant portion of the work, in which his descrip­

tive powers have full scope. It well illustrates also the author's
characteristic

■kill in the delineation of character. Take, for instance, Vitellius, and,
while

« Vid. Life of Tacitus, p. 10.

