14 ESSAY ON THE

35, Non modo libertas, etiam libido impunita ; Add. III., 19; XVI.,

29; Hist. II., 27. Hence, without reason, Lipsius has urged the in­

sertion of sed in Dial. 8. Nec hoc Mis alterius ter mille sestertium

praestat; ipsa eloquentia, evidently like Agr. 37. Some MSS. also

omit sec? in G. 10, Non solum apud plebem sed apud proceres, apud

sacerdotes.

Of relative conjunctions ut is sometimes omitted by asyndeton, and

not by ellipsis. For, in Ann. III., 10, Petitum est, cognitionem re-

ciperet, is not properly an ellipsis. And the same construction is'

found in many other passages.

8. At this day, indeed, when the science of grammar has begun to

be so much improved, no one will call such examples ellipses. 1

now pass to ellipses proper.

Tacitus omits auxiliary verbs almost without any distinction of

tense or mode. A. 16, Ac velut pacti; ibid. 1, ni incursaturus, sciJ

essem. Add. Hist. II., 42 ; Hist. II., 76, quod inchoaturi, scil. surd,

where the editions have inchoatur. The following may justly be

considered somewhat harsh; Hist. IV., 7, Satis Marcello (sit) quod

Nerdnem in exitium tot innocentium impulerit. Hist. IV., 55, So-

cius (esse) jactabat.

He is also accustomed to omit many other words, and the more

general the signification of each, the more frequently it is omitted, as

words of doing. Hist. L, 36, Omnia servilitor pro dominatione.

Thus must be explained without correction, .Sgr. 27, At Brittanni

non virtute sed occasione et arte ducis (factum esse) rati; coll. Hist.

II., 19. Numberless ellipses of this kind might be mentioned of

words of speaking, thinking, fearing, and going, not entirely pecu­

liar to Tacitus, since Cicero also has a similar usage, e. g., N. D. II.,

4, Augures rem ad senatum, (tulerunt) ; senatus ut abdicarent con-

sules (decrevit) ; abdicarunt. There are many more in his letters

to Atticus which exhibit even some appearance of haste. Where­

fore, I do not understand why any one should wish to change, A. 9,

Nullam ultra potestatis personam, scil. agebat. Much less has

Ernesti rightly forced agere into c. 19, Nihil per libertos servosque

publicae rei.

I pass by other common ellipses, as, of causa and potius. One

that is rare has escaped the notice of commentators, in Hist. III., 10,

Et ut proditionis (scil. reum) ira militum in Flavianum incubuit.

9. Brachylogy (Ppaxv^oyta) resembles ellipsis very closely. In el­

lipsis, words must be supplied evidently from some external source ;

these which are omitted through brachylogy are implied in the ad­

joining words, and must be supplied from what either precedes or

follows. Of this figure there are three kinds. The first is when the

