16 ESSAY ON THE

10. Zeugma approaches quite nearly to brachylogy: The follow­

ing are examples: Hist. II., 80, Caesarem (vocare) et omnia prin-

eipatus vocabula cumulare. See C. Roth, in Agr. Exc. XXXII.

There is a species of the same zeugma in that custom, surprising to

our ears, and scarcely imitable in our language, of uniting the samp

verb or word in one sense with one, and in another sense with another

part of the sentence. Pindar took the lead in this : IXtv i' ohop&ov

Slav TapBlvov rt avvcwar, he slew CEnomaus and (married) the virgin;

and in like manner Soph. Trach., 353. Like this is Hist. I., 6*7,

Plus sanguinis ac praedae Caecina hausit; Hist. II., 32, Britan-

nicum militem hoste et mari distineri; Agr. 25, Silvarum et mon-

tium profunda; Agr. 45, Nos Maurici Rusticique vuus, nos inno-

centi sanguine Senecio perfudit.

11. Another means of conciseness is that grammatical figure

which we, at this day, are beginning to call prccgnantia—a word

quite recently formed and a barbarous substantive—but yet appro­

priate, and withal necessary, which the more strict, if they choose,

may call structura praegnans. Very often a secondary idea lies

concealed in some noun or verb, unseen indeed, but breathing like

the foetus in the womb, and frequently also very forcible. I could

wish that some one of the great grammarians had defined, in an ap­

propriate treatise, the compass and limits of this figure, that I might

have some authority to follow; but now each, according to his own

humor, is accustomed to use a vague and ■fcfined word ; a privi­

lege which I shall claim for myself. BoUTnouns and verbs, and

likewise adverbs, are employed prcegnanter. Thus he says cupido

for pecuniae cupido, in Ann. XII., 57; Hist. I., 66; and on the other

handpecunia in the same sense, Hist. III., 41. The following come

under the same class, Hist. I., 85, Occulto habitu, scil. animi; for it

ought not to be understood of the assumption of a false dress; Hist.

3., 19, Cumulos, scil. corporum; Hist. IV., 86, Modesliae imagine in

altitudinem (silentii) conditus; Hist. IV., 72, Stare integram sedem,

scil. belli; Dial. 6, Publico, scil. judicio; Ingenium = commentum

ingenii, in Hist. HI., 28; Gaudio fungi = gaudii signification or

gratulalione, Hist. II., 55; Reposcentibus prospera, i. e., prosperorum

rationem, Hist. III., 13 ; Qui naves, qui classem, qui mare expecta-

bant, Agr. 18, i. e., aggressionem per mare apertum ac non per

fretum. In like manner with these words: Hist. I., 76, mansit, scil.

in fide; A'gr. 45, perfudit, scil. horrore; Agr. 25, complecti, scil.

bello, as, Hist. I., 36, Agr. 18, praesumpscre, scil. spe.

Frequently also adverbs or ablatives, datives or accusatives used

ike adverbs, bear some attributive, either adjective or participle, as it

were, concealed in them. This is evidently contrary to Cicero's

