NOTES

PRELIMINARY REMARKS.

ThE historical writings of Tacitus, as we now have them, consist of frag­

ments of two distinct yet not wholly disconnected works, " the Histories"

and " the Annals." The former originally comprised fourteen Books, and

embraced a period of twenty-eight years, from the second consulship of Gsiba

to the death of Domitian, of which only the first four Books and a small
portion

of the fifth remain, containing the history of only about one year. The lattei

consisted, when entire, of sixteen Books, and extended over the space of
fifty-

four years, from the death of Augustus to the close of the reign of Nero; but

four entire Books are lost, from the seventh to the tenth inclusive, and the

fifth, eleventh and sixteenth are preserved only in part. The Histories had

for their subject the civil wars of Galba, Otho and Vitellius, and the re-
estab­

lishment of the imperial power under the Flavian family (His. 1,1). The

subject of the Annals was the gradual corruption of morals and manners, and

the consequent subversion, pari passu, of liberty and law under the Julian

and Claudian families, till at length on the death of Nero the military gamed

the entire ascendency over the civil power, and the commander of the strong­

est army seated himself on the throne in place of the undisputed hereditary

succession of the Caesars (Ann. 1,1. 2). If the author's life had been spared,

it was his purpose to have written the Life of Augustus, as a sort of
introduc­

tion to his Annals (Ann. 3,24), and the Biographies of Nerva and Trajan as a

sequel to the Histories (His. 1,1). But he did not live to execute either of

these cherished plans.

In the MSS. and early editions, the Annals and the Histories appear as one

work, and the extant Books of both, counted in the same numerical series,

bear the common inscription, sometimes of Annates or Histories or Acta

Diurnalia, and sometimes only of the historian's name. They must have

been so arranged and numbered, in some copies at least, as early as the age of

Jerome (a. d. 331-420), for in his Commentary on Zachariah, 3,14, that Chris­

tian Father refers to Cornelius Tacitus, as having written the Lives of the

Cresars from the death of Augustus to that of Domitian in thirty Books,*

thus comprehending the two works in one, which covers the whole period of

time belonging to both. But Tertullian, who flourished in the latter part of

* It is chiefly from this number of Jerome, that we are able to make out the  
number of Books comprised in the original Histories. The Annals are known to

have consisted of sixteen Books, which subtracted from thirty eave fourteen
for

the Histories.

