8 ESSAY ON THE

from his own natural disposition, but he adapted the style of his nar­

rative to the taste of his age. For, as is usually the case in a time

of great moral declension, not only lassitude and listlessness, but

also, at the same time, a sort of morbid desire for haste, had taken

possession of the spirits of men; while those qualities which are a

proper mean between them—calmness of spirit and a healthy activity

—are the characteristic of but few. Hence what was formerly con­

sidered simplicity and dignified repose, then began to appear dull,

spiritless and insipid. Tacitus was therefore impelled at the same

time by his own genius, and by the taste of his age, to a hurried style

of expression.

But rapidity is opposed to dignity,—a grace which cannot be sepa­

rated from equability and moderation. And since dignity, in ancient

times, was the peculiar characteristic and requisite of a good history,

so skill was necessary in the later historians to temper rapidity with

dignity. To accomplish this purpose, Tacitus employed the utmost

diligence in producing an ornamented diction.

Now since I must briefly treat of the style of Tacitus, I will first

show by what arts, nay, even by what artifices, he attained to that

brevity which we admire as appropriate and peculiar to this writer;

secondly, by what means he made his style at the same time dignified

and beautiful.*

2. The conciseness of Tacitus is proverbial. But an incorrect

notion has prevailed among some, viz. that this consists mostly in the

brevity of single expressions, such as resemble the responses of

oracles. And this style of writing does indeed prevail in the treatise

on Germany, inasmuch as it is best adapted to description; and while

John Mueller and others, who seek a reputation for the same, imitate

it, they think they are rivalling Tacitus. But, on the contrary, the

acute judgment and the consummate skill of this writer are seen in this

very thing, that he adopted this style, so rare, only in treating those

subjects, the nature of which demanded it, while in other connections

he is scarcely less fond of full and rounded periods, not being inferior,

in this respect, to Cicero and Livy. At the commencement of the

Annals, he hastens, in a series of very brief propositions, to premise

whatever was important, from which he passes to a very full and

brilliant period, and thus introduces the history itself, as if he would

show the difference between the preface and the real history, by a

sudden change of diction. The orations, inserted in the narrative,

consist, according to the character of the speaker, sometimes of con-

* I have been assisted much in this Essay by the Prolegomena of G. Boetticher  
to the Lexicon on Tacitus, Betiir., 1830; and by the Excursus ad Tac.
Agricolam

of C. L. Roth, Norimb. 1833.

