boOK V. 419

2S. Conditae .... fecisse. Gave to thl city which they built

the name Jerusalem, from their own name. Al. conditam urbem

... nomins suo.—Hierosolymam. Al. Hierosolyma, acc. pl. Both

forms are used. See Lexicon. But Hierosolymam, though less com­

mon in T., stands here in nearly all the MSS. The plural form of

this name, as of the names of Athens, Thebes, and many other

places, seems to have originated in the incorporation of two or more

adjacent towns or fortresses (in this case, Mount Moriah and Mount

Zion) into one. For the true etymology of Hierosolyma, cf. Kitto's

Bib. Cyclopaedia, and Rup. ad loc.

It cannot but strike us, familiar as we are with the origin and his.

tory of the Jews, as very singular that Tacitus should have contented

himself with throwing together such a crude jumble cf contradictory

fables, instead of going to the original records, or consulting Jewish

authorities, in all of which he would have found the same consistent

and true story. But it is important for us to bear in mind, in reading

this or any other Roman history of the Jews, that they were a so-

cluded and peculiar people ; that their neighbors consequently knew

little of them, and were prejudiced against them ; and that at Romo

especially, they were hated by the great for their insubordination, and

despised by the learned for their superstition, bigotry and intolerance.

It should also be remembered, that the same prejudice extended to the

early Christians, who were regarded as a Jewish sect, and are often

spoken of by Roman writers in the same terms of hatred and con­

tempt as the Jews. See the famous passage in the Annals (15, 44),

where T. calls Christianity an exitiabilis superstitio. Yet on both

these subjects we find traces of the truth in nearly all our author's

errors, and those errors need not destroy our confidence in his veracity

as a historian, on subjects about which he was bettor informed and

less prejudiced. Similar and even worse absurdities are found in the

other Latin authors respecting the Jews, e. g. Justin, 3C, 2, Juv.

14, 96. seq., Martial, Diodorus, &c. Cf. Preliminary Remarks, p.

236.

Ch. III.—30. Orta tabe. Justin (36, 2) speaks of this dis­

ease and calls it scabiem et vitiliginem, i. e. the leprosy. T. as usual

omits the common technical name. Cf. Essay, p. 20. We have here

manifestly a corruption, and at the same time an indirect confirmation

of the history of the plagues that attended the exodus of the Israelites

from Egypt. Ex. 9.

31. Q,uae foedaret. For the subj., cf. Gr. 2G4; Z. 558.

—Hammonis oraculo. The original oracle of Ammon was in Lybia

(where his worship originated), twelve days' journey west of Memphis.

Cf. Plin. 5, 9. But the oracle here referred to was probably in Thebes,

which was a city sacred to Ammon, and henco called in the scriptures,

No-Ammou, the abode of Ammon. Cf. Nahum, 3, 8, in the Hebrew.

