FIRST VOLUME.

different circulations of the heavens: and that this theory solves

at once all that appears so absurd to persons ignorant of true

philosophy in many of the relations of ancient historians: I mean,

the accounts they g^ve of animals which no where exist at pre­

sent; and their ascribing properties to such animals as now exist,

so different from what they are now found to possess. For it

evidently follows, that in fertile periods animals must exist which

are unknown to barren periods; and that all the tribes of ani­

mals must upon the whole be superior in every respect: just as in

fertile ground, and in fertile seasons, the produce is more abun­

dant, the species of production are more various, and theit

qualities superior to what are found in the produce of barren

ground, in the barren seasons of the year.

But the following account of human bones of prodigious mag­

nitude which have been discovered, will I doubt not be accept­

able to the reader, in addition to the histories of this kind given

by Paufanias. The author of this account is Phlegon Trallianus;

and it is taken from his little treatise, On admirable things; and

On those that have lived to a great age. "Not many years since,

in Messene, Apollonius fays, that a large stone vessel was broke

through violent tempests, and a great inundation of water, and

that a head was washed out of it, three times as large as that of

a man, with two rows of teeth. An inscription informed those

that were endeavouring to find whose head it was, that it

was the head of Idas: for this was the inscription, lAEsl,

i. e. OF IDAS. The Messenians, therefore, at the public cost

provided another vessel, and placed in it the remains of the hero

in such a manner, that they were more secure than before, ai

they perceived that this was the person of whom Homer*

lays:

Idas the strongest of the mortal race

That flourish'd then, who for a beauteous nymph

Dar'd with Apollo Phoebus to contend,

And aim his arrows at the radiant king.

* Iliad. 9. v. 554.

"la

