3o8 - NOTES ON THE

a hoi se? I answer, that a certain dæmoniacal power of the order

of Saturn ib signified by this mutation. For ancient theologtfls

called the processions of any divinity to the lad of things, ac­

cording to different orders and degrees, mutations. So that the

fable, by asserting that Chiron was the son of Caturn by one of

the nymphs of the ocean, signifies that a Saturnian dæmon and a

nymph co-operated with the parents of Chiron, by a certain na­

tural sympathy, in begetting him.

Page 308. The judgment of Parti.] The fable here alluded

to is thus beautifully explained by the philosopher Sallust, in his

treatise De Diis et Mundo, cap. 4. "It is said that Discord, at

a banquet of the gods, threw a golden apple, and that a dispute

about it arising among* the goddesses, they were sent by Jupiter

to take the judgment of Paris, who, charmed with the beauty

of Venus, gave her the apple in preference to the rest. In this

fable, the banquet denotes the supermundane powers of the

gods; and on this account they subsist in conjunction with each

other; but the golden apple denotes the world, which, on ac­

count of its composition from contrary natures, is not improperly

said to be thrown by Discord, or Strife. But again, since dif­

ferent gists are imparted to the world by different gods, they

appear to contest with each other for the apple. And a foul

living according to fense (for this is Paris), not perceiving other

powers in the universe, asserts that the contended apple subsists

alone through the beauty of Venus."

Page 308. Dragging the three-mouthed dog from Hadcs.~\ By

a dog the ancients signified the discriminating and at the same

time reproving power of the souL For of this power the sagacity

and barling of a dog are images. And as its energies are triple,

(for it detects and reproves the fallacies of the senses, imagination,

and opinion), these are represented by the three heads of Cer­

berus. The great Hercules therefore drew this dog from Hade*

up to the regions of day; viz. he liberated this power of his

foul from its residence in the dark profundities of a material

3 nature,

i

