FIRST VOLUME. 30}

Cations necessary to the perfection of their virtue. The number

of these however is but small, and consequently the exceptions

to this observation are but few.

Page 305. Are believed to be brothers."] Sleep and Death were

with great propriety said by the ancients to be twins, from the

intimate alliance between Sense and Phantasy, from which we are

liberated by these divinities. For as Sleep frees us from the senses,

so Death from the phantasy. But Sltep, considered as a godj

is that power through which the divinities are enabled to ener­

gize in a manner separate from all inferior concerns, at the fame

time that their providential care is extended to every part of the

universe : and this latter energy was denominated by ancient the-

ologists vigilance. I only add, that the passage of Homer alluded

to by Pausaniasis Iliad 16. v. 672, and that Sleep and Death are

called brothers both by Orpheus and Hcsiod.

Page 308. Chiron.'] Chiron, according to fables, was the son

of Saturn by the nymph Philyra the daughter of Ocean. And

it is said that Saturn, in order to elude Rhea, changed himself

into a horse when he was connected with Philyra. Hence the

upper parts of Chiron, as far as to his navel, were those of a man,

and his lower parts were those of a horse. Chiron, therefore, is

the image of a man, who lived in the confines of the kingdom of

Jupiter and Saturn, or, in other words, who lived a life partly

•consisting of the political and partly of the intellectual virtues,

but yet so that he possessed the former in greater perfection than

the latter. For the fable, by asserting that his upper parts were

human, signifies his living according to the politic virtues, of which

Jupiter is the exemplar j since Jupiter is peculiarly ir*T»; a>Jja»n

Siarc-i, the father of gods and men. As Jupiter therefore is emi­

nently a political god, man must partake in an eminent degree of a

political life. But the lower parts of Chiron evidently partake

of the nature of Saturn: and Saturn is the source of an intel-

leSual life, which he causes to receive the most extreme division.

But what are we to understand by Saturn changing himself into

X x a horse I

