FIRST VOLUME.

proper reception of their illuminations, it is necessary that there

should be as perfect an aptitude in the recipients as they are ca­

pable of receiving. Hence, as in generation, or the sublunary

region, wholes remain perpetually according to nature, bnt their

parts are sometimes according and sometimes contrary to nature,

this mull be true of the parts of the earth. When those circu­

lations therefore take place, during which the parts of the earth

subsist according to nature, and this is accompanied with a con­

currence of proper instruments aud places, then divine illu­

mination is abundantly and properly received. But when the

parts of the earth subsist contrary to nature, as at present, and

which has been the cafe ever since the oracles ceased, then, as

there is no longer an aptitude of places, instruments and times,

divine influence can no longer be received, though the illumi­

nations of divine natures continue immutably the fame; just,

fays Proclus, as if a face standing in the fame position, a mirror

should at one time receive a clear image of it, and at another,

one obscure and debile, or indeed no image at all. For, as the

fame incomparable man farther observes, it is no more proper

to refe.r the defect of divine inspiration to the gods, than to

accuse the sun as the cause os the moon being eclipsed, instead

of the conical shadow of the earth into which the moon falls.

Page 98. There is a temple of Nemesis, EsV.] Proclus on He-

siod informs us, that Nemrfis was celebrated in hymns as the

angel of justice; and that she is represented by Hesiod clothed

in a white garment, because she is an intellectual power, far re­

moved from the atheistic and dark essence of the passions.

Page 98. The river of the Ocean."] Herodotus in Euterpe

fays, "that he knows no river of the name of Ocean, and that

he believes it was either invented by Homer, or some poet of

former times:" and Mr. Wood is of opinion, "that the Ocean

in Homer's time had a very different meaning from th3t which

it now conveys." Herodotus is certainly right in what he fays,

S 3 ar

