FIRST VOLUME 255

distribution, till, through the energies of a cathartic life, (he

raises herself from the extreme dispersion, and loosens the bond

of sympathy through which (he is united with body: and till,

at the fame time energizing without the image, (he becomes esta­

blished according to her primary life. And we may behold a

resemblance of all this in the frjle respecting Bacchus, the ex­

emplar of our intellect. For it is sajd that Dionysius, establish­

ing his image in a mirror, pursued it, and thus became distri­

buted iato the universe. But Apollo excited and elevated

Bacchus; this god being a cathartic deity, and the true sa­

viour of Dionysius, and on this account he is celebrated as Di-

enyfoter*." Such as are desirous of feeing the original of this

curious passage, and many important particulars respecting the

mysteries of Bacchus unfolded, from Greek manuscripts, may

consult my Dissertation on the Elexfinian and Bacchic Mysteries.

Page 93. And of Earth, whom they call a mighty goddess."]

Earth is called by Plato, in the Timaeus, the most ancient and

first of the gods in the heavens: and this, fays Proclus, on ac­

count of her stability and generative power, her symphony with

heaven, and her position in the centre of the universe. For

the centre possesses a mighty power in the universe, as connect­

ing all its circulations; and hence it was called by the Pytha­

goreans the tower of Jupiter, from its containing a demiurgic

guard. And if we recollect the Platonic hypothesis concerning

the earth, that our habitable part is nothing but a daik hollow,

and very different from the true earth, which is adorned with a

beauty similar to that of the heavens, we shall have no occasion

to wonder at her being called the first and most ancient of the

celestial gods." Put the Platonic hypothesis which Proclus al­

ludes to is this, which is an Egyptian tradition: that the summit

of the earth is ethereal, in order that it may unite with the orb

of the moon; that it is every where perforated with holes like a

* In the MS. it is ^.y.i-n.r,.;; but mould doubtless be read SunvetUpf.

pumice

