NOTES ON THE

sul, to the secret meaning of much of the mythology id the Iliad,

and shews us how the relation here given by Pausanias is to be

understood. For it means, that certain dxmoniacal powers, who

rank among the kst attendants of the gods Neptune and the

Sun, once contended with each other about the land of Corinth;

and that Btiareus, a dæmon belonging to the deity of that name,

acted as a mediator between them. I only add farther, that

these demons, who are thus proximate to the subjects of their

government, and who are influenced by paflions like men, are

not essentially dæmons, though they are the perpetual attendants

of the gods; but they are dæmons only cxca>,t according lo

habitude, proximity, and alliance. For between essential dæmons,

who are the ecn/lant attendants of the gods, and men who are

only sometimes damons according to habitude, and sometimes atten­

dants of the gods, it is necessary there should be an order of

beings, who are always dæmons according to habitude, and al­

ways the attendants of the gods..

Page 14.1. But there are three Jlatves of Jupiter, fee.] It ap­

pears to me highly probable, that the three Jupiters, mentioned

in tliis place by Pausanias, are those three brother deities, the

offspring of Saturn, between whom, according to Homer, the

universe is divided; or, in other words, that they are Jupiter,

Neptune, and Pluto. For the second of these itatues, fays Pau­

sanias, is called terrcjlrial Jupiter, which is an epithet of Pluto,

as is evident from the Orphic hymn to that deity; and from

Homer, as cited by Pausanias, p. 204 ; and Neptune, in the Or­

phic hymn to Equity, is called marine Jupiter, nrotlioc maXt^Zir;.

Put that the reader may fee the processions and offices of these

three demiurgic gods, who are supermundane deities according

to their first subsistence, I shall present him with the following

translation from Proclus in Theol. Plat. p. 367.

"1 hese ruling gods replenish the apparent order of things in

conjunction with the mundane gods; and distribute whole parts

»nder the moon, in a manner different from their government in

