THIRD VOLUME.

These pillars therefore are images of disterminating, and at the

fame time connecting powers, which by their efficacious vigour

eternally prevent things on high from being confused with things

below. Hence Atlas, who contains these powers, and who is

one of the Tartarean gods about Bacchus, energizes not only

according to a separating power, which is the characteristic of

the Titans, but likewise according to a connecting power, which

is the characteristic of Jupiter.

Page 52. Homer.'] Iliad 2. ver. 592.

Page 55. Cabiri.~\ It appears to me, that the celestial twins

are no other than the Curetes, according to their mundane sub­

sistence. For the first subsistence of the Curetes is, as we learn

from Proclus, in that order of gods which is denominated by the,

Chaldxan theologists »ofpo; intellectual, and of which Saturn is

the summit. Their next subsistence is among the supermundane

gods, in which order they are called the Corylanlei. And their

third subsistence is doubtless that of the twins. For the Curetes

in the Orphic hymns are celebrated as the twins. If this be

the case, and the Cabiri are, according to the Scholiast on Apol-

lonius Rhodius, Ceres, Proserpine, Pluto and Mercury, they

cannot be the same with either the Curetes, Corybantes, or

Dioscuri. For the Curetes, according to Proclus, are the guar­

dian triad of the intellectual triad, Saturn, Rhea, and Jupiter,

and he informs us that one of these Curetes is Minerva. The Co­

rybantes, as we learn from the fame author, are the guardians of

the Coric triad, Diana, Proserpine, and Minerva. And as to the

Dioscuri, or the twine, they are evidently different from the

Cabi ri mentioned by the Scholiast.

Page 57. The Sphinx.'] The Sphinx, according to Lasus

Hermioneus, was the daughter of Echidna and Typhon; and

according to Clearchus, (he had the head and hands of a virgin,

the body of a dog, a human voice, the tail of a dragon, the

claws of a lion, and the wings of a bird. But it appears to

me that the ancients, by the Sphinx, designed to represent to us

the

