320 NOTES ON THE

But in order to understand who the Homeric Circe is, it is ne«

cessary to observe, that the ancient theologists, when they repre­

sent divine natures, as employed in the exercise of certain arts,

means to ininuate by such arts producing, prolific, inttllcBual, and

perseQ'vvepowers, which proceed from the gods into the universe;

all the parts of which are nothing more than illuminations of

these powers. This being premised, "Circe (says Proclus in

his Scholia on the Cratylus) is that divine power which weaves

all the life contained in the four elements, and at the fame time

by her song harmonizes the whole sublunary world. But the

shuttle with which she weaves, is represented by theologists as

golden, because her essence is intellectual, pure, immaterial, and

unmingled with generation; all which is signified by the shuttle

being golden. And her employment consists in separating*

things stable from such as are in motion, according to divine

diversity." . I only add, that Homer with great propriety re­

presents Circe, who presides over the sublunary world, or the

realms of geneiation, as waited on by Nymphs sprung from

fountains: for Nympha,tsays Hermias (Comment. MS. in Flat.

Phædrum), are goddesses presiding over regeneration, and are

the attendants of Bncchus the son of 'Semele. On this account

they are present with water; that is, they ascend as it were into,

and rule over generation. But this Dionysius or Bacchus sup­

plies the regeneration of every sensible nature. tiv/ifo* h umi

if oki Shu tH{ 'hiyyi'tai?.; imvsym tow m Zipita; Aravtfw, Jio <tj

xufx Tip t'Jali im, tovt tfi tij ymm ariptfSnxjtin. wlos it e Aunn;

Page 59. For a icy belongs to Pluto.'] Pluto is a deity of a

guardian characteristic; and of this a key is a very proper sym­

bol. But the following beautiful account of this divinity, from

the Scholia of Proclus on the Cratylus, will I doubt not be high­

ly acceptable to the truly liberal reader: "Pluto is an intellec­

tual demiurgic god, who frees fouls from generation. For our

* for the shuttle is a symbol of Jtfartfin^ fewer. _

whole

