276 NOTES ON THE

Page 117. The twelve gods, as they are called.] These twelve

divinities are, Jupiter, Neptune, Vulcan, Vesta, Minerva, Mars,

Ceres, Juno, Diana, Mercury, Venus, Apollo. The first triad

of these gods is demiurgic; the second, defensive; the third, vi-

vific; and the fourth, elevating and harmonic. These divinities

according to their first subsistence, considered as characterized by

the number twelve, form that order of gods which is called ar»-

?.vrof, or liberated, by the Chaldæan theologists, but uir;foip«Miof,y«-

percelejlial, by the Greeks, because it is immediately situated above

the mundane gods. But these gods are received from the libe­

rated order into the world. Hence, as Sallust observes in his

.elegant little work, On the Gods and the World*: "Of these

gods, some are the causes of the world's existence; others

animate the world; others again harmonize it, thus composed

from different natures; and others lastly guard and preserve it

when harmonically arranged." He adds: "The truth of this

may be seen in statues as in ænigmas. For Apollo harmonizes the

lyre, Pallas is invested with arms, and Venus is naked; since

harmony generates beauty, and beauty is not concealed in objects

of sensible inspection. But since these gods primarily possess the

world, it is necessary to consider the other gods as subsisting in

these; as Bacchus in Jupiter, Æsculapius in Apollo, and the

Graces in Venus. We may likewise behold the orbs with which

they are connected; viz. Vesta with earth, Neptune with water,

Juno with air, and Vulcan with fire. But the six superipr gods

we denominate from general custom ; for we assume Apollo and

Diana for the fun and moon; but we attribute the orb of Satur n

to Ceres, sether to Pallas; and we assert that heaven is common

to them all."

Page 119. Bacchus Ny<~Jii:s.~] So called, because his myste­

ries were celebrated by night.

Page 119. Venus Vertkornia.~\ Thus denominated, accord­

ing to Gyraldus, because (he turns the heart to chastity. Vid.

Valer. Maxim, lib. viii.

* Can. vi.

Page

