FIRST V OLUMg.

Pxige 129. And Latona."] 1 she following admirable account

of Latona, from the MSS. £c holla of Proclus on the Cratylus,

cannot fall of being highly a jceptsbje to the Platonic reader.

"Latona is a vivlfic fountain c ompreberded in Ceres: andhence,

according to ihc Grecian rites, fh-is wcrjl .fpcd as tlx fame with

Ceres, these rites evincing by this, the union of the goddesses.

Eut this goddess enrta the win lie of vivisic light, ilhimtuating the

intellectual essences of the g< ;ds, and the orders of fouls: and

lastly, (he illuminates the v,!*jI e ft. risible heaven, generating mun­

dane light, and establishing tlu cause of this light in her offspring,

Apollo and Diana; and ca"i js all things to glitter with intellec­

tual and vivific light. S!i« imparts likewise to fouls the con­

summation of virtue, and an illumination which leads them,

back to the intellectual pe t of their father*, hastily withdraw­

ing them from the windin; - paths of matter's-, the entangle­

ments of vice, and the ro' in I ness of the passage over the sea of

generation. It appears to me indeed, that thcologifts consider­

ing this, denominated her d Latona, on account of her ex­

tending to foals fmootbnefi of manners, a voluntary life, and

divine gentleness and cafe. I '>r to such as raise themselves to

her divinity, (he imparts an iru ssable energy, a blameless life,

gentleness of manners, serenit y, and intellectual tranquillity.

Whether therefore (lie is called. Leto, from a voluntary life; for

Xv signifies vo Gmlopai I um it'll 'tig} or from to Jkiif, the smooth,

her name will perfectly evince th ough both these, the powers

which (lie possefils. For the con ipellc d energies of the foul take

place through material rougline£ >, ai d the obliquity of a life in

generation diminishes the foulvoluntary lift. But an ascent

to the gods imparts a smooth anc gentle, instead of a hard and

rough, and a voluntary, instead < >f a compelled life.

Why then is it necessary to cal 1, as fume do, Latona matter,

as capable of being eaiily turned, and subsisting as an express

* i. e. Jupiter.

f Of these winding paths the Dedi 'lean labyrinth is nn imsjr.

resemblance

1

