226 NOTES ON THE

tertaining description os this (hip, though widely different m

some particulars from the above account, in Athenæus, lib. 6.

cap. c.

Page 34. But the truth of this is confirmed by Homer, &c.~\ It

is not however the Epirots that Homer alludes to, by a people

unacquainted with the sea, and who knew not the use of salt: •

but as, in the person of Ulysses, Homer has beautifully represented

to us the image of one who passes in a regular manner from a sen­

sible to an intellectual life, he very properly describes him, after

having braved the storms of the ocean, or the dangers and diificul-

• ties attending a life subordinate to that of intellect, as destined

to arrive among a people to whom the sea was unknown, or, in

other words, to live a life wholly intellectual and divine. As Pau-

sanias therefore was pious, but without philosophy, he could not

have any conception of the concealed philosophical meaning of

Homer in the fable of Ulysses. Sec more concerning this, in my

translation of, and notes to, Porphyry's Cave of the Nymphs,

in vol. ii. of Proclus on Euclid.

- Page 3 7. Pyrrhus received a -wound in his hcad.~\ It appears from  
Livy, 1. 29. c. 18. and Plutarch in Pyrrho, that Pyrrhus was (lain

in this manner, as a just punishment for his impiety in plunder­

ing the treasuries of the temple of Proserpine.

Page 39. It was my intention, indeed, &c.~] It is a circum­

stance remarkably singular, that the Pythagorean philosopher

Numenius was, as well as Pausanias, deterred by a dream from

disclosing the Eleusmian mysteries. Before the extinction of the

gehuine religion of mankind, indeed, and the introduction of

gigantic imfi.ly, it must have been highly improper to unfold

these mysteries to all men: but when delusive faith succeeded to

scientific theology, and divine mystery was no more, it then became

necessary to reveal this most holy and august institution. Thi»

appears to have been done by the latter Platonists: and from

some important passages which fortunately yet remain in the

manuscript Commentaries of these great men on Plate, I have-

been

