FIRST VOLUME. *3j

-

Page 51. That Ccicjlid! Venus ts the eldest of those divinities who

are called the Parca.~\ We have already observed, that there arc

two Venuses, one supermundane, the other mundane. The first of

these is the Celestial Venus mentioned in this place by Paufanias,

as the eldest of the Parcæ, though according to the Orphic hymn

to this goddess, and which I have no doubt is the truth, she is

the ruler of the Fates: for the Hymn fays «u tfastut tjktuwv f*oi£iur,

"thou governs/I the three Fates."

Page 5 2. And the temple of Diana the huntress.'} The sphere

of the Moon is, as is well known, attributed to the goddess

Diana: and this divinity, as we are informed by Proclus in

Tim. p. 260, "is the cause of nature to mortals, as she is the

felf-confpicuous image of fontal Nature.'* Sitam fut am« toit

J>T)1o>; T7); (pvtrWi, to avroiBat ayahyta tfiaa Tut amyoiof fvnuf. As

the Moon therefore is the cause of the existence of all na­

tural life, so likewise of its dissolution: for the natural life which

she imparts to all animals and plants, brings with it a limited

duration, and, when the period of its existence is accomplished,

returns to this divinity as its fountain. Hence Diana is very

properly represented as a huntress: for through certain unappa-

rent powers resident in the rays of the Moon, of which arrows

are an image, she takes away, or, in other words, receives back

again, the natural life which (he gave.

Page 54. Bacchus leading Vulcan bad to heaven."] The meaning

of this beautiful fable appears to me to be as follows: Vulcan,

as we have already observed, is that divine power which presides

over the spermatic and physical reasons of the universe; or, in

other woids, which by using nature as an instrument, produces

all the bodies which the universe contains. Juno is the inspec-

tive guardian of all motion and progression. Hence she is said to

have hurled Vulcan from heaven, because the is the cause of Vul­

can's prolific progression to the extremity of things, and of his

being every where present with his productions in the most un­

restrained manner—-in a manner, by which this progression, con­

tinually

1

