FIRST VOLUME. 271

the earth, but exposed to the view, neither confused nor disturb­

ed, but placed in proper order, so that he who looks at them

can tell, which are the bones of the thighs, legs, -and other

members. It is not therefore by any means proper to disbelieve

these accounts: hut we ought to think that at first, nature being

very vigorous caused every thing to approach near to the perfec­

tion of the gods* j and that becoming afterwards debilitated, the

magnitude of bodies also decreased. I am likewise informed,

that at Rhodes there are bones which far surpass in magnitude

the bones of men of the present day. And the same Apolloniui

says, that there is a certain island near Athens, which the Athe­

nians fortified with walls; and that when they were digging the

foundations of these walls, they found a sepulchre of one hundred

eubits in length, in which there was a skeleton of the same di­

mensions with the sepulchre, with this inscription : I Maeroseirit,

vuho lived five thousand years, am buried in a long island.

"Eumachus, in his description of the earth, says that the Car-

-thaginians, when they were digging a trench in their own coun­  
try, found two skeletons placedfin coffins, one of which wat

twenty-three, and the other twenty-four cubits in length.

"And Theopompus Sinopenfis, in hisTreatise on Earthquakes,

fays, that a sudden earthquake happening in the Cimmerian

Bosphorus, a certain hill was rent asunder, and bones of a pro­

digious magnitude were thrown out of it: for the length of the

whole skeleton was found to be twenty-four cubits. He adds,

that the Barbarians who dwelt about those parti threw these

bones into the lake Maeotis."

Page 104. The pancratium. ] This was a mode of wrestling

and boxing, in which it was lawful to use any kind of play, in

order to obtain the victory.

Page 100. Peleui vowed hit hair to the river Spcrchiut.-] Th*

• This opinion is very natural to a mind unacquainted with the various

circulations of the heavens.

verses

