FIRST VOLUME. 283

absurdity in which such fables are involved. The first of these

u from considering the orderly ettfiinSion in the progression of all

the divine genera from their ineffable source. I mean that some

are the causes of union, and others ofseparation to things posterior;

that some Impart a generating power, and others an undejihdpurity-

to subordinate natures; and that some impart a good, separate

from the nature of its recipient, but others such a 'good as is

consubsistent with its receptacle. Now this distinction, and

seeming opposition, in divine natures, was called by ancient my-

thologists contention and war. I fay seeming opposition: for

all divine natures subsist in the most perfect friendship and pro­

found union with each other; and at the same time that the es­

sence and energy of each are perfectly distinct, they are either all

in all, which is the case with the divine unities, or all in each,

which is the cafe with forms or ideas.

But the second mode of considering the battles of the gods,

is by regarding their progressions into the universe; in conse­

quence of which the last orders dependent on the gods, as they

are produced by a long interval from the first causes, are con­

tiguous to the subjects of their government, and adhere to mat­

ter, contract contrariety and all-various division, and, by their

proximate care of mortal concerns, are obnoxious to desires and

passions. Lastly, on account of their great sympathy with mor­

tal concerns, and the partial providence which they exert for

their welfare, they actually war with each other. But as even

the last orders which perpetually follow the gods, preserve the

properties of their leaders, though in a partial and manifold man­

ner, hence they were very properly called, by the ancients, by

the names of the gods their respective leaders. Thus for in­

stance, not only the deity who illuminates all things with super­

mundane light, and who sits with Jupiter and the celestial gods,

was called Apollo, but this name was given to the dæmon who

was the guardian of Hector. This last mode indeed of consider­

ing battles among the gods, is the key, in the hands of the skil­

ful,

