34S NOTES ON THE

Page 64. Mimnermus.] Mimnermus was an elegiac poet

of Colophon, and, according to Suidas, was the son of Ligyrti-

ades; hut ■according to others he was a Smyrnsean. He flou­

rished about the time of Solon, and besides elegies wrote on

amatorial subjects, as we learn from Propertius and Horace. At

present, however, nothing more than fragments of the works of

this poet remain.

Page 64. Linus."] Linus, according to Suidas, was a poet of

Chalcis, and the first that brought the knowledge of letters

from Phœnicia to Greece. He taught Hercules letters, and

is said to have ranked as the prince of lyric poets. Two frag­

ments are all the remains of his works at present

Page 67. That Orpheus was the son of the Muse Calliope.']

How this is to be understood, the reader may learn by con­

sulting the note on p. 46. of Vol. L of this work. For an

account of Orpheus, fee the Dissertation prefixed to my Trans­

lation of the Orphic Hymns.

Page 6g. With respect to the hymns of Orpheus, Z?c] Fabricius

and others are of opinion, that the Orphic hymns which are now

extant are the very hymns mentioned in this place by Pausanias.

But surely, if this were the cafe, Pausanias would not fay, that

the whole of the hymns of Orpheus does not amount to any coiifidtr-

able number; for how can eighty-six, the number of the Orphic

hymns now extant, be called an inconsiderable number?

Page 72. They fay that Narcissus beheld himself in this foun­

tain, SsV.] The fable of Narcissus beautifully represents to us

the condition of a foul converting itself to the phantasy (for this

is the meaning of Narcissus hanging over the limpid theam),

and in consequence os this becoming enamoured with a cor­

poreal life; or that life which subsists in body, and which is no­

thing more than the delusive image of the true man, i. e. of the

rational and immortal foul. Hence by an immoderate attach­

ment to this unsubstantial mockery and gliding semblance of the

real soul, such a one becomes at length wholly changed, as far as

is

