324 NOTES ON THE

very much seared, and as it were reverenced by a lion; the rea­

son of which we can never aflign from matter or sense, but from

the contemplation alone of a supernal order. For from hence

we (hall learn, that the properties of the fun are more abun­

dantly received by the cock than the lion. And the truth of

this is evinced from hence, that the cock celebrates, and as it

were invokes the rising sun, by his crowing, as if with certain

hymns, when that luminary bends his course from the antipodes

to us; and that sometimes solar angels appear in forms of this

kind; and though they are in themselves without form, yet they

appear with it, to us who are connected with figure. Sometimes,

too, solar dæmons are seen with a leonine front, who suddenly

disappear when a cock is placed before them. The reason of

this is, because, in the same order, inferiors always reverence their

superiors j just as the greater part of those that behold the

images of divine men, are by the very aspect of these images

terrified from perpetrating any thing base."

Proclus De Magia.

Page 79. Herodotus.] Lib. vii.

Page 82. For the Lydiens tvho are called Persic."] Kuhnius

observes that the Perfic Lydians were denominated from the Per­

sian sacred rites pertaining to Mithras, which rites principally

flourished in the Lydian cities Hierocæsarea and Hypaepa.

Page 82. A magician entering into this cell, &c] The follow­

ing curious account of magical incantation, from a very rare

Greek MS. of Pscllus, On Damons according to the Dogmata of the

Creeks, will, I doubt not, be acceptable to the rjader, as it eluci­

dates the passage of Pausanias before us, and sliews that magic is

not an empty name, but possesses a real power, though at present

this art seems to be totally lost. »j ymltux. tr» ""X"1 T,s «"*P» T"t

twXovi; k - 1 Wot - Saificyaf ^aylapv axosrofcra to»£ E7ro?r1a($ Ta Teflwci-

c" ■ ma Ti Vi f. a aiTTiy e£ aJv jti a \ ,l j a , Tot's 0- mJ/o^Er xccla^vj-a^
nau

to'SIcvf xaxfcliKOUf. x«i imWXA aria v£ipift ftolatr/xala TOif tW,-tt; Tf»

Toils,?, xai Tot; 1*1) {ED|«a!# T»» (xiivf j xfft«iw»!a tirccf weV t«s Surgut

