FIRST VOLUME. 259

Snd eternal generation of Ceres. For, at the seme tfme that they

fend forth their young into the light, they extend to them milk

naturally produced, as their food."

Page 96. And when the Atheniamsenquired of the oracle, &C.2

, There are very few, I fear, of the present day, who do not con­

sider the oracles of the ancients as mere delusions; and who do

not ascribe the accomplishment of their predictions, either to the

tricks of designing priesti, or the random power of chance.

This, however, must necessarily be the cafe at a period when di­

vine influence is totally withdrawn, and delusion and perfect

atheism are the substitutes for the genuine religion of mankind.

While men indeed are ignorant that true theology (and such

was that of the ancients) is perfectly scientific, being founded on

the clearest and most natural conceptions of the human mind; and

while in consequence of this ignorance they believe nothing to be

real, but objects of fense, the doctrine of a communication be­

tween men and divine natures must appear ridiculous in the ex­

treme. And yet one should think, that history must convince

the most incredulous, that the" numerous instances in which the

predictions of, oracles have been so wonderfully accomplished.

Could not be the result either of chance or intrigue. Indeed, he

who can read the many instances of this- kind adduced by Pau-

sanias, and yet deny the possibility of man communicating with

higher powers, must either be an atheist or a fool.

For the fake therefore of the lover of divinity, I shall sum­

marily disclose the scientific theory of oracles, according to the.

philosophy of Plato. As there is not one father of the universe

only, one providence, and one divine law, but many fathers

subordinate to the one first father, many administrators of pro­

vidence posterior to, and comprehended in the one universal pro­

vidence of the demiurgus of all things, and many laws proceed­

ing from one first law, it is necessary that there should be dif­

ferent allotments, aad a diversity of divine distribution. Hence

tfcere are allotments of partial fouls, such as ours, of unpolluted

S a souls,

