334 NOTES ON THE

nioza. Xiyn to» £»ra, o 15-1 ip^um, /tons ya% iut a.\vyyi Sam £; -,*,

i^iij. «tj o> yuSa^cjixoi f>«wi to» j^aXxm Turn avm%ui $ucrt(» vsu-

fAXTI, ho Kj til AvOAXM! TfMSOU; TOMVTO; aiaxlITOU. «J II IDII^MI C!

But Hermias the philosopher, in his MS. Commentary on the

Phxdrus of Plato, gives us the following satisfactory information

respecting the oracle in Dodona. The reader who is desirous

of seeing the original of this passage, may find it in page 11 of

the Collection of Oracles by Opsopoeus. "Different accounts

are given of the Dodonean oracle; for it is the most ancient of

the Grecian oracles. According to some, an oak prophesied in

Dodona; but according to others, doves. The truth however

is, that priestesses whose heads were crowned with oak prophe­

sied ; and these women were called by some peleiades, or doves.

Perhaps therefore certain persons being deceived by the name,

suspected that doves prophesied in Dodona; and as the heads

of these women were crowned with oak, perhaps from this cir­

cumstance they said that an oak prophesied. But this oracle

belongs to Jupiter, and that in Delphos to Apollo. With great

propriety therefore are these oracles considered as allied to each

other. For Apollo is said to be the assistant of Jupiter in the

administration of things: and often when the Dodonean oracle

appeared to be obscure, the oracle in Delphos has been consulted,

in order to know the meaning of that of Jupiter. Often too

Apollo has interpreted many of the Dodonean oracles. Priest­

esses, therefore, when in an enthusiastic and prophetic condition,

nave greatly benefited mankind by predicting and previously cor­

recting future events; but when in a prudent state, they were

similar to other women."

Page 227. Homcr.~\ Iliad 23. ver. 584.

Page 233. One of the nymphs belonging to the sea sell in love

tuilh him.] We have (hewn in a foimer note, that the last order

of powers that are the perpetual attendants of the gods, and the

proximate guardians of mortal natures, has a great sympathy

with

