FIRST VOLUME.

parts of the earth In which the oracles were given then became

too impure to receive the prophetic inspiration. For, as we

have observed in a former note, there must be a concurrence of

proper instruments, times, and places, in order to receive divine in­

fluence in a proper manner; so that when all or any of these are

wanting, this influence will either be not at all received, or will be

received mingled with the delusions of error. But let the l eader

who desires popular conviction of this important fact, that there

was no collusion in general in the ancient oraclce, peruse the first

book of Cicero De Divinationc \ and unless his intellectual eye is

dreadfully Winded by the darkness of perseS at'hcism, which has

now spread itself among all ranks of men, he must be at least con­

vinced that they were not produced by the knavery of priests.

That the priests indeed were sometimes corrupted, the passage

before us of Pausanias, and many other instances which might

be adduced, sufficiently prove; but this does not in the least in­

validate the existence of divine influence, or the reality of ora­

cular prediction; because the best thing3 always have been and

always will be perverted, through the weakness and viciousness

of the bulk of mankind.

Page 281. Tie Archon EpcnymusS] Sylburgius observes heie,

that governors of this kind were called Archons, because they

annually possessed the supreme authority: but that they were

called Eponymi, because the years in the fasti and annals were in­

scribed aster their names; just as among the Romans the years

were not only numbered from the time in which their city was

built, but were rendered remarkable by the names of their con­

suls.

Page 290. Jupiter Euanemus.~\ That is, Jupiter the cause os

prosperous winds.

Page 291. Neptune Hippoeurius.~\ Pindar, in his Isthmian and

Nemæan odes, (hews that a festival wastelebrated by the Thebaci

in honour of Neptune Hippocurius.

Page 291. Britomariis.2 This word is a compound of the

Vot. III. X Creta*

