27+ NOTES ON THE

in beings superior to the dæmoniacal order. By the power there­

fore calli'd the s),emon, which so often occurs in Pausanias, we

must understand Jupiter.

Page 109. But he that has h:cn initiated in th? Eleusinian mys­

teries, SsV.] From the present passive, in conjunction with iome

other authorities which I shall adduce, we may collect no con­

temptible argument in favour ot' the opinion, thai the Orphic

hymns which exist at present were the very lumns which were

used in the Eleusinian mysteries. "For (fays Pa;.tan:as) it is not

lawful to alcribe the invention of beans to Ceres; and he that has

been initiated in the Eleusinian mysi cries, or has read the poems

called Crphic, will kiiow wiiat I mean." Now Porphyry De

Abftintntia, lib 4, informs us, that kans were forbidden in the

Eleusinian mysteries*; and in the Orphic hymn to Earth, the

facrificer is oiticied to fumigate from every kind of feed, except

beans and aromatic:. Again, Suidas informs; us, that tixAi

means a mystic sacrifice, the greatest and most venerable of all others,

Surta jxwi-»ipia;2»is, n ftiytrv *} rtfuAfa. And Proclus, whenever he

speaks of the Eleusinian mysteries, calls them the most holy tchtai,

ayiulaiau TtAilsif. Agrteably to this, the Orphic hymns are

called in the Thryllitian manuscript tAiIow: and Scaliger justly

observes, that they contain nothing but such invocations as

were used in mysteries. Besides, many of the hymns are expressly

thus called by the author of them. Thus the conclusion of the

hymn to Protogonns invokes that deity to be present at "the

holy telcte" fj ti*i1«i» œyiai: of the hymn to the stars, to be pre­

sent "at the very learned labours of the illustriously-holy telcte:

EaSiT ivs1 luilfou T«Xi1>!{ WoV..iVot-a{ a.9x«iir.

And in the conclusion of the hymn to Latona,the sacrifice is called

an all-divine telete. Bii>" <«> -utSiun TiXt7ii>, as likewise in that

xm ipeflim xou xvajitn, gota; ti xai fxtXut, p. jjj. Edit. Trajec

f In Plat. Theol. p. 371, et in MS. Comment, in Alcibiad.

of

