FIRST VOLUME. 287

Isis and Osiris. Proclus too in Tim. pu 3*. fays that according to

the Æ-yptian historians, there was the following inscription oil

the statue of Minerva, in the adytum of the temple: tym nfu mi

To TtyoKif, Kj ot, k) mfun)' k| rot tfjuit ?rtirV.v ot-^iic »» flnjxo; arixa-

o» xatfiroi itucc* n'.ior t^!»iTo. i. e. " I am every thing

THAT HAS BEEN, THAT IS, AND THAT SHALL BE; AND NO

MORTAL HAS EVER VET BEEN ABLE TO WITHDRAW MY VEIL.

THE FRTJIT WHICH I HAVF BROUGHT FORTH IS THE SUN."—

It is remarkable that this inscription, as far as to the first period,

is cited by Plutarch in his above-mentioned treatise ; but I know

of no author except Proclua who has cited the latter part, "the

fruit which I have brought forth is the fun;" nor has this import­

ant addition been noticed by any modern writer that I am ac­

quainted with, owing doubtless to the want of a copious index to

these invaluable commentaries ot Proclus.

As Ifis therefore is Minerva, and as the veil of this goddess, as

I have observed in a former note, is an emblem of Nature, which

proceeds from those intellectual vital powers contained in the es­

sence of Minerva, we may perceive the reason why the Arriians,

Æthiopians and Ægyptiaus called Nature (as we are informed by

Apuleius) Ifis. Likewise since the moon, as we learn from Pro­

clus, is the auiWion ayafyia tr,% (fveit*;, the fe/f-i't/ive image of Na­

ture, we may fee why Nature was called by the Cretans, according

to Apuleius in the tame place, Diana. And in short, as Minerva

was justly called by the ancients xoji/f n t«» Si»>», the summit of the

gods, and is therefore their source in conjunction with her father

Jupittr, we may at one view see the propriety of her being called

by the names of so many other goddesses, in the following sublime

passage from the Metamorphoses of Apuleius : for, as every cause

is that primarily which its estect is secondarily, Minerva is in a

certain respect the same with all the divinities that proceed irom

her, when they arc considered according to their causal subsistence

in her essence.

The divinity of the moon, then, thus addresses the metamor.

phosed

