FIRST VOLUME. -239

by alway9 descending into generation. It is therefore by no

means wonderful, that Hercules, who was born with intellectual

prerogatives so much superior to the bulk of mankind, should

even from his infancy have been remarkably united with divine

natures, and thus may be said to have vanquished a partial life,

which is implied by his strangling dragons in his infancy. I only

add farther concerning Hercules at present, that as he descended

from Jupiter, it appears to me that his life was both politic and

philosophic, and this in the highest degree possible to human

nature.

Page 67. Minerva rifing from tht head of Jupiter,,] Minerva,

as Plato beautifully observes in the Cratylus, is deific intelligence:

and hence she is said to have proceeded from the head of Jupiter,

or the demiurgic intellect, by which the world was produced,

because she is the progeny of the deific intelligence of this intellect,

which is the very summit, flower, and as it were head of Jupiter.

Ibid. 67. For they first of all denominated Minerva Ergane.]

Ergane meanS artificer: and the propriety of this appellation

must be obvious to every one, from what we observed in the pre­

ceding note; I mean, that she is the immediate progeny of the

artificer of the universe.

Page 68. Jupiter, -who it denominated Polieus.'] Polieus means

the guardian of a city; and this is a very proper epithet of Ju­

piter, because he is the cause of a politic and philosophic life.

Page 69. In her hand she holds a spear, a shield lies at her feet,

and near her spear there is a dragon, -which may perhaps le Erich -

thonius; and at the base os the fiatue the generation os Pandora it

represented.^ The spear of Minerva is a symbol of that all-per-

Tading power, through which the gods without control are

enabled to pervade the universe, to aid sublunary forms, and to

amputate base matter. Her shield signifies that untamed power,

which first appears in her essence, and from thence becomes an

invincible defence to the gods; through which they remain secure

from passion, and reign over the universe triumphant and pure.

A dragon

