NOTES ON THE

raised from the bottom of the fountain a fair boy, of a moderate

stature, whose hair seemed to be tinged with gold, and the upper

part of whose breast was of a luminous appearance. His com­

panions being astonished at the novelty of the affair, Let us pass

on, fays he, to the next fountain; and at the fame time he arose,

fixed in thought, and, performing the same ceremonies as before,

called forth the other Love, who was in all respects similar to the

former, except that his hair scattered in his neck was blacker,

and was like the fun in refulgence. At the fame time, both the

boys eagerly embraced Jamblichus, as if he had been their na­

tural parent: but he immediately restored them to their proper

feats, and, when he had washed, departed from the place." Let

the reader, however, be careful to remember, that though Eros

and Anteros are gods considered according to their first subsist­

ence, yet these which are mentioned by Eunapius were of the

dæmoniacal order; and were perhaps dæmons only xaia. o-x'ov, ac-

eording to habitude, or alliance.

Page 91. Carrying with them burning lamps."] The propriety

of employing burning lamps, in a contest sacred to Prometheut,

is sufficiently apparent from the account we have already given of

this divinity. For Prometheus, we have shewn, is the inspec-

tive guardian of the descent of rational souls; and fire, from its

tending upwards, is an emblem of the rational foul. As a burn­

ing lamp therefore may be considered as a very proper image of

our rational part, it appears to me, that this custom adopted by

the Athenians, of running from the altar of Prometheus to the

city with burning lamps, in which he alone was victoiious whose

lamp remained unextinguished in the race, was intended to signi­

fy that he is the true conqueror in the race of life, whose rational

part is not extinguished, or, in other words, does not become dor­

mant in the career.

Page 91, For Socrates, in the night k'fore that day on which

Plato became his disciple, Jaw in a dream a swan j7y to his bosom.]

The foul of Plato, according to the ancients, descended from

8 Apollo,

