3o4 NOTES ON THE

those suhtrrranran rivers which are so much celebrated by an­

cient theologists. So thn nothijg more >'» meant bv in s fable,

than that this divine powtr Scmele, while she illumirsi-.s the po-

fundities of the earth with as great a portion of divine !■<.>.„ tt

they are capable or receiving, of a light winch is enshrined as it

were in she -r./~ st Gre,is at the fame iimc elevated by Baccl.m

to an energy perttsi'y immaterial, impalSvc and pure, lor di-

yinc illumination, while it proceeds into the da: k and rclour.diug

receptacle of matter, is neither c.ciircu by its darkness, cefi.ed

by its impurity, nor debilitated by itt. privation of reality.

Page 253. Homer.'] These verses, the transhror os which is

Mr. Pope, are to be found in the Odyssey, lib. six. Ter. 1-8.

Page 257. The oracle.'] This oracle is ghen at length by

Herodotus, lib. i. p. 1 7.

Page 260. Who has dared to corrupt the oracle of the god.]

There camiot be the leall Joi;bt but that the greater part of men

of the present day believe the ancient oracles to have been nothing

more than the tricks of designing priests; and the remaining

part, which is certainly a very tmall one, wiil, as it appears to me,

ascribe them to the influence of evil spirits. However, as it is a

well known fact that moil of the oracles ceased when the Christian

religion made its appearance, it is impossible that they should have

been nothing more than fraudulent tricks; for, if this had been

the cafe, there was a much gicatei necessity than ever for the ex­

ercise of such tricks, when a new religion started up, diameti ically

opposite to the old one; nor can any reason be affigned why on

this hypothesis the oracles should cease. On the other hand, to

say that they were produced by the influence of evil spirits, is

just as absurd as to assert that evil is naturally the source of good;

for the tendency os the oracles was evidently direited to the good

both of individuals and cities, which in numberless instances they

were the means of procuring. It may therefore be safely con­

cluded that they were produced by divine influence; and that

they ceased when the Christian religion appeared, because the

part*

