FIRST VOLUME. 227

been enabled to unfold the leading particulars of this interesting

affair. These particulars the reader may find in my Dissertation

on the Elcustnian and Bacchic Myjleries.

Page 41. Near this is the temple of Celejlial Venus,,] The Celes­

tial Venus (for there are two Venufes, as is well known) is that

divine power which collects together the different genera of

things, according to one desire of beauty. She is therefore very

properly said to derive her subsistence from the prolific power of

Heaven: for Heaven, as I have (hewn in my notes on the Craty-

lus, composes that order of gods which is called by the Chaldseart

Theologists rouTo; voijoc, i. e. intelligible and at the fame timcintcl-

leftual; which corresponds to intelligence; and is wholly of a

containing and conn :8ive nature. "But the second Venus, fays

Proclus (in Schol. MSS. in Cratylum), Jupiter produces from,

his own generative powers, in conjunction with Dione: and this

goddess likewise proceeds from foam, after the fame manner

with the more ancient Venus, as Orpheus evinces. But these

goddesses differ from each other, according to the causes of their

production, their orders and their powers. For she that pro­

ceeds from the genitals of Heaven is supermundane, leads up­

wards to intelligible beauty, is the supplier of an unpolluted'

life, and separates from generation. But the Venus that pro­

ceeds from Dione governs all the co-ordinations in the celestial

world and the earth, binds them to each other, and perfects their

generative progressions, through a kindred conjunction. These .

divinities too are united with each other, through a similitude of

subsistence: for they both proceed from generative powers; one

from that of the containing power of Heaven, and the other

from that of Jupiter the artificer of the world." He adds,

"that by the sea we must understand an expanded and circum­

scribed life; by its profundity, the universally-extended progres­

sion of such a life; and by the foam, the greatest purity of

natute, that which is full of prolific light and power, that which

swims upon all life, and is as it were its highest flower."

Qj." It

«

