22S NOTES ON THE

tible nature. Now the first of these powers you may call InteU

leclual; the second •vivtsic ; the third Paonian, and so on, which

the ancients, desiring to signify to us by names, have symbolically

denominated. Henpe, says Olympiodorus in MS. Comment,

in Gorgiam, we ought not to be disturbed on hearing such

names as a Saturnian power, the power Jupiter, and such-like,

but explore the things to which they allude. Thus for instance*

by a Saturnian power rooted in the first cause, understand a pure

intellect : for Kgoto; or Saturn is xogo; i. e. 5 xaSafOf, or, a pure

intellect. Hence, fays Olympiodorus, we call those that are pure

and virgins, xogai. He adds, On this account poets * fay, that

Saturn devoured his children, and afterwards, again sent them

into the light, because intellect is converted to itself, seeks itself,

and is itself sought: but he again refunds them, because intel­

lect not only seeks, and procreates, but produces into light aud

profits. On this account, too, he is called a/xvXop«Ti{, or

infleSed counsel, because an inflected figure verges to itself.

Again, as there is nothing disordered and novel in intellect,

they represent Saturn as an old man, and as flow in his motion:

and hence it is that astrologers fay, that such as have Saturn

well situated in their nativity are prudent and endued with

intellect.

Again, the ancient theologists called life by the name of Ju­

piter, to whom they gave a two-fold appellation J** and <r,m,

signifying by these names, that he gives life through himself.

Farther still they aflert that the Sun is drawn by four horses, and

that he is perpetually young, signifying by this his power, which

is motive of the whole of nature subject to his dominion, his

fourfold conversions, and the vigour of his energies. But they

fay that the Moon is drawn by two bulls : by two, on account of

her increase and diminution; but by bulls, because as these till

the ground, so the Moon governs all those parts which surround

the earth-

* This is asserted by Hcsiod in his Thcogony.

Th»

