SECOND VOLUME. 33t

flowing realms of generation. And hence we may infer that the

statue mentioned in this place by Pausanias was an image of a

tUmoniacal Minerva.

Page 198. Afire there it than other Jiret more fierce."] Kuhniut

observes, that this proverb is mentioned Jay Plutarch, in his Life

of Demetrius; by Homer, Odyssey 19; and by Aristophanes in

Equit.

Page 212. When he says, Plato speaks to this effect in

the 5th book of his Republic.

Page 214. The mother Dindymene and Attet,~\ Dindymcne

signifies Cybele, or the mother of the gods. But the fable respect­

ing this goddess and Attes, or rather Attis (for so it is written

by Harpocration, Suidas, the emperor Julian, and the philoso­

pher Sallust), is beautifully unfolded by Sallust in his golden

treatise On the Gods and the World, chap. 4. as follows: "It is

said that the mother of the gods, perceiving Attis by the river

Gallus, became in love with him; and having placed on him a

starry hat, lived afterwards with him in intimate familiarity: but

Attis falling in love with a nymph, deserted the mother of the

gods, and entered into association with the nymph. Through

this the mother of the gods caused Attis to become insane, who

cutting off his genital parts left them with the nymph, and then

returned again to his pristine connexion with the goddess.

"The mother of the gods then is the vivisic goddess, and on

this account is called mother 1 but Attis is the demiurgusof na­

tures conversant with generation and corruption ; and hence he is

said to have been found by the river Gallus, for Gallus denotes

the Galaxy, or milky circle, from which a passive body descends

to the earth, But since primary gods perfect such as are se­

condary, the mother of the gods falling in love with Attis im­

parts to him celestial powers; for this is the meaning of the

starry hat. But Attis loves a nymph, and nymphs preside over

generation; for every thing in generation flows. But because

it is necessary that the flowing nature of generation should be

stopped,

