262 NOTES ON THE

as he only considered the sensible Ocean; and Mr. Wood discovers

some sagacity in conjecturing, that Ocean formerly had a differ­

ent meaning from what it has at present. For, when Homer calls

Ocean a river, he alludes to the deity of this name, who belongs

to that order of gods which is called intellectual, and of which

Saturn is the summit; who is a fontal deity myeu*; 9to;, and

is therefore very properly denominated a river, as giving birth

to theprocej/swn of the gods into the sensible universe, and being,

according to his last, subsistence, the source of the sea and the

all-various streams that flow upon the earth. For every cause is

that primarily, which its effect is secondarily: and hence causes

were assigned by ancient theologists the. fame names with their

effects. Concerning this deity, Proclus in his MSS. Scholia on

the Cratylus observes as follows: "Ocean is the cause to all the

gods of acute and vigorous energy, and bounds the distinctions

of the first, middle, and last orders; converting himself to him­

self, and to his proper principles, through swiftness of intellect,

but moving all things from himself to energies accommodated to

their natures; perfecting their powers, and causing them to pos­

sess a never-failing subsistence.'' And in his Commentaries on

the, Timæus, p. 296, he observes of this deity, considered ac­

cording to his sublunary subsistence, "that he is the cause of

motion, progression and power, conferring vigour and prolific

abundance on intellectual lives, but swiftness of energy and

purity in generations to fouls, and facility of motion to bodies.

That considered as subsisting in tbe gods (i. e. in sublunary

gods) he comprehends a motive and providential cause: but in

angels he comprehends an unfolding and intellectual swiftness:

in dæmons, efficacious power: and in heroes he is the supplier

os a magnificent and efficacious life. Besides this, he imparts to

every element the characteristic of his nature. Thus, with re­

spect to air, he produces all the mutation of aerial natures, and

3s, as Aristotle observes, the cause of the circle of the meteors.

But

