NOTES ON THE

such as lire in generation are said to be placed under Neptune.

And those which after generation are purified and punished, and

either wander under the earth for a thousand years, or again re­

turn to their principle, are said to live under Pluto. In the fifth

place, the distributions of these gods are divided according to the

centres of the universe. For Jupiter possesses the oriental centre,

as being allotted an order correspondent to that of fire: but Nep­

tune obtains the middle centre, which corresponds to a vivific na­

ture, and through which generation enjoys celestial natures: and

Pluto obtains the western centre ; since the west is allied to earth,

because it is nocturnal, and the cause of obscurity and darkness.

For shade proceeds from the earth, and earth is the privation of

light from west to east. Lastly, according to every division of the

universe, such natures as arefirst, and obtain the principality, belong

to Jove; such as are middle correspond to the kingdom of Neptune;

aud such ai are last belong to the empire os Pluto."'

Page 141. Mercury in a fitting posture, and by thefide of him a

ram.~] The reason why Mercury was represented by the ancients

with a ram, depends on the intimate alliance of this god with Mi­

nerva, who, as we are informed by Proclus on the Timæus, pre­

sides over that celestial constellation called the ram, and from

thence imparts a motive power which governs the universe. But

the agreement of Minerva with Mercury will be obvious from

considering that this goddess, as we have before observed, extends

the whole of intelb.ilual light, and that Mercury is the source of

the reasoning power. Hence the ancients used to render the statues

of both these divinities one, by joining them together: and a

statue of this kind they called f.;na8i»i), Hermathena, or Mercury-

Minerva. These Hermathena: are mentioned by Cicero in his

books De Inventione. I only add, that the verses of Homer cited

by Pausanias may be sound Iliad 14. v. 490.

Page 144. Minerva Chalinitii.] i. e. the Bridler. u

Pa^e 147. I/is.] Isis is the fame with Minerva, according to

the Ægyptians, as we are informed by Plutarch, in his treatise of

6 LIfi»

