33» NOTES ON THE

thy man may be truly happy in the present life; and for a de«

monf.ration of this important truth, I refer the reader to my

translation of Plotinut on Felicity.

Page 311. From the Iliad."] Lib. xxiii. v. 346.

Nothing can be more absurd than the fable which these verses

allude to, if it is considered according to its literal meaning, at

the fame time that it is extremely beautiful when properly un­

derstood. In order therefore to understand its secret meaning,

it is necessary to remind the reader of what I have before ob­

served, that the processions of a divine nature to the extremity

of things, according to different orders and degrees, were sym­

bolically called, by ancient thcologifls mutations. Hence, by

Neptune and Ceres changing themselves, the former into a horse,

and the latter into a mare, and from connection with each other

begetting the horse Arion, nothing more is meant, than that a

dæmon iacal Neptune and a dxmoniacal Ceres co-operated with

the nat.iral causes by which this animal was produced, in beget­

ting him.

Page 311. Antimachus.] This Greek poet was a Colopho-.

nian. He wrote on the age and country of Homer; and, ac­

cording to Plutarch, contended that Homer was his countryman.

Page 312. Homer."] Iliad 2. v. 607.

Page 321. Minerva in the form of Ale/as."} By Minerva here,

we must understand a dæmoniacal power, belonging to the god­

dess Minerva, but of the lowest order.

Page 322. The battle between the giant 1 and the gods, CsV.] By

giants in the fable alluded to here by Paufanias, ancient the-

ologists occultly signified the last order of dzmoniacal powers,

who on account of their proximity to the natures over which

they preside, and adhering to matter, contract contrariety, and

an all-various division; who, besides this, partially preside over

material affairs, and diminish and disperse those separate powers

which subsist uniformly and indivisibly in their primitive causes.

Hence, as the gods operate uniformly, indivisibly, and with

perfect

