=44 NOTES ON THE

this substance for lamps, -when burnt with oil, give a perpetual Tight,

•without requiring frtjh supply- By the smell too of these lamps,

those that labour under the falling sickness are detected. Thi»

Hone grows in Carystus, from whence it derives its name. It

likewise abounds in that part of Cyprus through which you

descend from Gerandrum towards Soli, on the left hand of El-

mæus beneath the rocks. This stone increases about the full

moon, and is diminished when the moon decreases." It appears

from this curious passage, that this stone Carystius must be the-

same with lir.um vivum, or ajbeftinum.

What Plutarch too, in his treatise, Why the Oracles cease I*

jive answers, says concerning the non-existence of this stone in

his time, particularly deserves the attention of the philosophic

reader. "It is not long (fays he) since the quarry of Carystus

has ceased to yield a certain soft stone, which used to be drawn

into a fine thread 5 for I suppose that some here have seen tow­

els, net-work, and coifs, woven of that tiiread which could not

be burnt; but when they were soiled with using, people threw

them into the fire, and took them out white and clean; for the

fire only served to purify them. But all this is vanished, and

nothing is to be found in the quarry now, but some few fibres or

harry threads, lying scattered up and down. Aristotle and hi.

followers affirm, that the cause of all this is owing to an exha­

lation within the earth, the phainomena proceeding from which

fail, or again make their appeaiance, when this exhalation fails,

or revives and recovers itself again." The reason why this stone

sometimes fails, and at others appears again,can only be satisfacto­

rily accounted for by that theory respecting fertile and barren pe­

riods, which the reader will find unfolded in the note to page 104.

With respect to the lamp mentioned by Pausanias, whether

its burning day and night for a year was entirely owing to the

wick being made of Carpalian flax, so that the lamp was not

larger than the lamps used in common, deserves tobe investigated

by the curious in natural researches. But that the ancients pos­

sessed

