FIRST VOLUME.

Page 141;. The hydra."] As we have already shewn that the

labours of Hercules are allegorical, the account given of his cut­

ting off the hydra's heads, which formed one of his labours, must

consequently be a fabulous narration. By the hydra, therefore,

the ancients seem to have occultly signified the various and ma­

terial form of the foul, which branches out into—I. Communi­

cation with the lives and opinions of the multitude. 2. Multi­

form desires, which divide the foul about body, and cause it to

energize about externals; at one time connecting it with irra­

tional pleasures, and at another time with actions indefinite and,

opposing each other. 3. The senses, which are educated as it

were with the rational foul, and deceive its cogitative power; for

these are multiform, and perceive nothing accurate or true,

4. Phantasies, on account of their figured and divisible nature,

and immense variety, which do not suffer us to betake ourselves)

to an indivisible and immaterial essence, but draw down those who

are hastening to the apprehension of such a nature, to a passive

Intelligence. 5. Opinions, because these are various and infinite,

tend to externals, and are mingled with phantasy and sense. The

hydra's heads therefore are images of all these, which Hercules,

who is an intellectual hero, is with great propriety said to have

destroyed.

Page 246. To had loch Semele."] Bacchus is the monad, or

proximately exempt producing cause of the Titaus, or ultimate

artificers of things; and Semele, as we have shewn from Olynv*

piodorns, in a former note, is sublunary fire, i. e. the divinity of

sublunary fire. As Semele, therefore, according to heT ultimate

progressions, is suspended from Bacchus, she may verv properly

be laid to have been led back from Hades, or the profundities of

a material nature, by Bacchus; because every divine monad ele­

vates to itself the series of which it is the head. I only add, that

it is by no means improbable that this Alcyonian lake may be one

of those passages through which the defluxions of the element*

are transmitted to the inmost, recesses of the earth, so as to forra

those

