FIRST VOLUME. 249

express himself, when speaking os some pagan, with reference to

the authors of the Bible) who described the Furies in this man­

ner. I (hall only observe farther at present, that there is a pas­

sage in the Cataplus of Lucian, which very much corroborates

my opinion. The passage is as follows: "Tell me, Cynic, for

you are initiated in the Eleusmian Myfleries, do not the present

particulars appear to you similar to those which take place in the

Mysteries? Cyn. Very much so. See then, here comes a cer­

tain torch-bearer, with d dreadful and threatening countenance. It

it therefore one of the Furies?" nvt (ici, iliXsfffijit ya%, u Ktwxf, tet

i),iwm>, euj£ ouoia toij ixsi t<x t&x.$t 001 ioxn; KTN. iv Aiytij, »Jo»

»v» irpoffif^ilai t»; J»jot/;£OW7« ti<, (pcQifci T», xai airu^ipmut tf

vweef n ttfa %ov ifinv; ijh; It is evident from this passage, that

the Furies in the Mysteries were of a terrible appearance, which

Pausanias informs us was not the cafe with their statues: and it

is from the circumstance of the statues of these divinities not

being in the least dreadful in their appearance, that he infers

Æschylus was the first that represented them so. Hence, as the

Mysteries were instituted long before Æschylus, it is evident,

,that the terrible aspects of the Furies were not invented by him:

and it is more than probable that this dreadful appearance was

principally caused by the snake3 in their hair. The same Or­

phic hymn, too, calls the Furie3 $oGfpwirec, i. e. having terrific

aspects.

Page 82.] The verses of Homer, alluded to by Pausanias, are

to be found in the 23d book of the Iliad; and are thus trans­

lated by Mr. Pope:

1 and emulate ity sire,

The great Mecistheus; who, in days of yore,

In Theban games the noblest trophy bore,

(The games ordain'd dead Oedipus to grace)

And singly vanquistVd-the Cadmæan race.

Page 84. For the pomp of the Panathenaia."] The Atheni­

ans had two festivals ip honour of Minerva, the former of which,

09

