296 NOTES ON THE

Page 179. Homer.'] This verse of Homer is in the Odyssey,

Kb. ii. v. 120.

Page 181. In one of her hands she f olds a pomegranate.] Juno

16 a viviiic goddess, and is the inflective guardian ot motion and

progression: and on this account (fays Oiympiodorus) in the

Hiad she perpetually roulea and excites Jupiter to providential

energies about secondary concerns. With respect to the pome­

granate, the Emperor Julian, in his Oration to the Mother of

the Gods, informs us, that it was not permitted to be eaten in

the sacred rites of#the goddess, because it is a terrestrialplant.

Perhr.ps therefore, by Juno holding a pomegranate in her hand,

her dominion over earthly natures is implied.

Page 182. With reflect to the cucko*ti$c.~\ Pausanias is cer­

tainly right, when he fays that such relations as the present

ought not to be neglected; though he was far from apprehend­

ing it) meaning. The concealed fense however of this fable

appears to me to be as follows: Jupiter, desirous that Juno, by

participating- his divine energies, should become profoundly

united to him (for this is the meaning of his being enamoured

with Juno), is beheld by the goddels as subsisting according to

sublime wisdom. For a bird may be considered as the image* of

elevation: and a cuckoo, according te Ælian, is a mrfl wise bird.

Let it however be carefully remembered, that the divinities are

profoundly united to each bther perpetually, according lo ?.n

energy separate from mundane concerns, and yet at the fame

time providentially preside over every part of the universe: but

fables, in order to exhibit these different energies to our view,

by apt images, are obliged to represent them as taking place at

different times.

Page 183. The reply of the Pythian oracle to Glaucus, the son

vf Epiades ling of the Spartans (read and king of the Spartans).]

That cl.ildicn should be punished for the crimes of their parents,

which the Pythian oracle said, was the cafe with the posterity of

Pelopi,

