2Q2 NOTES ON THE

discourse is referred to tliis god. He presides therefore over every

species of erudition, leading us to an intelligible essence from this

mortal abode, governing the d'sserent herds of fouls, and dis­

persing the sleep ;'.nd oblivion with which they are oppiessed. He

is likewise the supplier of recollection, the end of which is a ge­

nuine intellectual apprehension of divine natures."

After tliis he observes that the different r.ges of our life on the

earth correspond to the order of the universe: "For our first

age (says he) partakes in an eminent degree of the lunar ope­

rations; as we then live according to a nutritive and natural

. power. But our second age participates of Mercurial preroga­

tives; because we then apply ourselves to letters, music and wrest­

ling. The third age is governed by Venus; because then we be­

gin to produce seed, and the geneiative powers of nature arc put

in motion. The fourth age is solar; for then oar youth is in its

vigour and full perfection, subsisting as a medium between gene­

ration and decay; for such is the order which vigour is allotted.

But the sifth age is governed by Mars; in which we principally

aspiie after power and superiority over others. The sixth age is

governed by Jupiter; for in this we give ourselves up to pru­

dence, and pursue an active and political life. And the seventh

age is Saturnian, in which it is natural to separate ourselves from

generation, and transfer ourselves to an iueorporeal life. And

thus much we h :ve discussed, in order to procure belief that let­

ters, and the wkjble education of youth, is suspended from the

Mercu: ial series." 1 only add, that as the first gifts of this god

are intellectual, lo his last pertain to the acquisition of ain. Hence

lie was called the god of merchandise and theft: for crust, as Plo-

• tinut- K a ;l;fully observes, is a ('.eflu'xton of intellect; and from

these two professions craft is inseparable.

Pas^e 16-. T« He-culct as to a hero.'] The grand source, aa

it appears to me, of all that dire confusion which has taken place

in opinion- > "^'"g t.ie gods, is the belies that they were no­

thing more than men who once lived on the eartk, and after their

death

