236 NOTES ON THE

/

Page 61. ^Theseus, when he departed to flay the Minotaur"] The

explanation given by the moderns of the Minotaur, and the other

parts of the fable to which it belongs, is as absurd and foreign

from the truth, as any of their solutions of ancient fables. "I

shall make it appear (fays the Abbe Banier* with all the lav/'

less levity of a Frenchman, and in the true spirit of a Catholic

divine) that the Minotaur, with Pafipbac, and the rest of that

fable, contain nothing but an intrigue of the queen os Crete

with a captain named Taurus; ;. d the :-rtiLi.c of Dædalus only

a fly confident." And in this impudent manner he explains

the most celebrated lables of antiquity. It is true indeed, that

my own countrymen are at present unacquainted with the divine

wisdom of the ancients; but I do not know of any English writer

that has attempted to explain the Grecian fables in a mani er so

impertinenti trifl'ng, and absurd. Surely every thinking mind

must unite with me in acknowledging, that if the ancients intend­

ed to conceal in their fables nothing more than what Banier pre­

sents us with, their fables are far more puerile than the riddles

composed by the ingenious Mr. Newbery for children. Lord

Bacon, though far from penetrating the profound meaning of

the ancients in these fables, saw enough to be convinced that they

were replete with the highest wisdom of which he had any con­

ception; and has done all in attempting to unfold them that

great genius without the assistance ot genuine philosophy is able to

effect, But the most piercing sagacity, the most brilliant wit, and

the most exquisite subtilty of thought, without this assistance, are

here of no avail.

It is indeed easy for ingenious men to give an explanation of

an ancient fable, which to the superficial observer shall appear to

be the precise meaning which its inventor designed to convey,

though it be in reality very far from the truth. This may be

easily accounted for by considering, that all fables are images of

* Vol. i. of the translation of his Mythology, p. 29.

truth?,

