546 ftOTES ON THE

the nature of the phantasy. In order to be convinced of which,

it is neceflary to observe, that the rational soul, or the true man,

consists of intellect, cogitation (Jiawia) and opinion; but the

fictitious man, or the irrational foul, commences from the phanta足

sy, under which desire and anger subsist. Hence the basis of

the rational life is opinion, but the summit of the irrational life is

the phantasy. But the phantasy, as Jamblichus beautifully ob足

serves, glows upon, as it were, and fashions all the powers of

the foul; exciting in opinion the illuminations from the fenses,

and fixing in that life which is extended with body the impres足

sions which descend from intellect. Hence, says Proclus, it folds

itself about the indivisibility of true intellect, conforms itself to

all formless species, and becomes perfectly every thing, from

which cogitation and our indivisible reason consist.

This being the cafe, as the phantasy is all things passively

which intellect is impassively (on which account Aristotle calls

the phantasy passive intellect), hence the head of the Sphinx is

human, but at the fame time of the feminine sex; this sex

being the image from its passivity of irrational life. By the

Sphinx having the body of a dog, the discriminating power of

the phantasy is implied: for a dog, as we have stiewn before, is

the image of the discriminating power of the soul (to Siaxpilixoi

m ^vyjr.f). By her having the tail of a dragon, and the claws

of a lion, the communication of the phantasy with desire and

anger is signified. And her wings are images of the elevating

powers which the phantasy naturally possesses; for it is re-ele足

vated, in conjunction with the returning foul, to the region every

way resplendent with light. But the riddles of the Sphinx are

images of the obscure and intricate nature of the phantasy. He

therefore, who is unable to solve the riddles of the Sphinx,

i. e. who cannot comprehend the dark and perplexed nature of

the phantasy, will be drawn into her embraces and torn in pieces;

i. e. the phantasy in such a one will subject to its power the

rational Use! cause its indivisible energies to become divisible,

8 and

