THIRD VOLUME. 34a

is possible to his nature, into a plantal condition of being, into a

beautiful but transient flower; that is, into a corporeal life,

or a life totally consisting in the mere energies of nature.

So that Narcissus is tlie image of a foul converting herself to

phantasy, and through this becoming drawn under the dominion

of fense.

But it is here necessary to observe, that the death of Narcissus

is related by Plotinus and the anonymous author De Incredibi-

libus in Gale's Qpufcula in a manner different from that of Ovid.

For according to them Narcissus merged himself into the stream,

through endeavouring to embrace his shadow, and disappeared.

The fable however is extremely beautiful, whether we consider

Narcissus as changed into a flower or suffocated in the stream:

"For (says Plotinus, Ennead. I. lib. vi.) as he in the fable, who

by catching at his' shadow merged himself in the stream and

disappeared, so he who is captivated by beautiful bodies, and

does not depart from their embrace, is precipitated not with his

body but with his foul into a darkness profound and horrid to

intellect, through which becoming blind both here and in Hades,

he converses with nothing but shadows."

Page 72. As Jbe was playing and gathering jtoivers.~\ For

the meaning of this part of the fable respecting Proserpine, sec

my Dissertation on the Ehiifinian and Bacchic Mjjleriet.

Page 76. Tirefias.~\ What are we to understand by Tiresiat

becoming blind, through beholding Minerva? Certainly, that

by a profound conversion of the eye of his foul to divine -wisdom

he became abstracted from corporeal vision; and thus, by leading

a life separate from sensible inspection, was fabled to be corpo­

really blind. Hence Tiresias is said by Homer, Odyss. 10.

ver. 493, &c. to be the only wise person in Hades, and to pos­

sess intellect though dead, through Proserpine, while the other

inhabitants of Hades arc nothing more than flying shadows.

For it may be truly asserted of such a one, both in the present

life and hereafter, that he alone is wise and endued with intellect,

when

v

