FIRST VOLUME.

divinity with ceremonies peisectly proper, call me by a true ap­

pellation qiueri lsi»."

Page 147. S.v This divinity, aswe leani from Plutarch

in his treatise of llis md Osuis, and Porphyry on Oracles as cited

by Euscbius, 13 the same with the Fluto m£ the Greeks.

Page 147. Æg':i:a the J^ugiur if Jf.fus'iuat rtivi/iu!ly Ju­

piter."] What are we to understand by this relation ? 1 i.ut this

was once actually the cafe? But to suppose this would bt absurd

in the extr eme. Ac all such relations therefore are very far from

being literally ti ue, we should consider them as fables in which

some mysterious meaning is involved ;—a moaning which from

its sublime nature ought to be concealed froin the vulgar, as their

eyes are too weak to sustain the splendours of the highest truths.

By ravishment and adultery then between divine and human na­

tures, ancient theologilts meant to insinuate that communication

of energy between the two which we have taken notice of in a

former note, in which we shewed how heroes may be laid to her

the sons of go'Js :wd goddesses. But as this communication of

energy takes plate through angels, dæmons, and essential heroes

ks mediums, he:;ce the Jupiter mentioned in this fable must be

considered as a '"xmon'ccal power of the scr-ies of Jupiter, who

by giving perfection to the natural life of Ægina, and removing

every thing which would be an hnp.ediruent to the feetus in hep

womb, was said to have ravished her.

Page 147. Sifypbet.] The following beautiful passage - from

the MSS. Scholia of OKmpicrlorus on the Gorgias of Plato fully

unfolds the meaning cf the fable refpectingthe punistuncut of Si­

syphus. For the original of this pafl'age 1 refer the reader to my

Dissertation on thelv'Iysteries, p. 45. "Ulysses,''Jays he, "de­

scending into .Hades, saw among others Sisyphus, and Ticyus and

Tantalus ; and Tityus he. law lying on the earrii, and a vj ture

devouring his liver; the. liver liquifying that he lived solely

according to the deiiderative p<jJtof hi*nature, and through *his

was indeed internally prudent; but earth signifying the terrestrial

Vol. III. U condition

