FIRST VOLUME. 293

(ieath were deified for their exalted worth. fThil opinion too ori­

ginated from a misconception of divine fables, and ignorance of

the manner in which every divine order proceeds to the extre­

mity of tli jigs. For every god, as I have before observed, confer*,

the characteristic oshi3 nature on ail its participants; and those

heroic souls that have at times appeared on the earth, and of whom

we have given an account in a former note, conscious that they

possessed the properties of those gods from whom they descended,

calied themselves by tbt names of their parent divinities. Thus

heroic fouls who descended from Jupirer, called themselves by the

name of that god. Thus a hero Æsculapius has lived among men,

who descended from the god os that name. This too has been the

cafe with an heroic Bacchus, Mercury, Apollo, and in short with

heroes of the fame names with all the other gods. Hence we must

consider Hercules as a hero who descended from the deity of that

name, who in his highelt subsistence, according to the Orphic

theology, is the fame with the celebrated Phanes or Prutogmus,

the exemplar of the universe. Ag heroic souls therefore of this

kind were, as we have before observed, called by the ancients

gods according to similitude, or in other words, from their ap­

proaching to the perfection of a divine nature as much as is pos­

sible to man, and particularly when liberated, from the present

body ;—hence it is easy to see how Hercules may be a god, and

yet a man; how the hero Hercules may be said to have been dei-

sied after his death, without confounding the divine with the hu­

man nature; and in short, how ignorance of this mojl important

particular has given birth to the delirious systems of modern wri­

ters on mythology.

Page 164. And cn her leadJhc hears the pole.] As the word

*o*t;, the pole, was used by the ancients to signify the heavens, it  
seems to me evident that this statue represented Celestial Venus.

Page i6j. Similar to the square figures of Mercury.] Proclus

on Euclid * informs us that the Pythagoreans signified by a

* Lib. it. in Def. 3} et 34.

U 3 , square

