Sio NOTES ON THE

this interesting account of the preservation of An'stomenes in the

deep chasm, has been taken from Pausanias with some alteration

by the author of those tales, and forms one of the most curious

parts of the history of Sindlad the sailor. A a the Arabians, a

little after the year of Christ 820, under the auspices of the Ca­

liph Almaimon, who was the great patron of literature, and in­

deed by his orders, translated the best works of the Grecian phi­

losophers and mathematicians into Arabic, perhaps Pausanias

was translated by them at the same time. I only add, that Aristo-

menes appears to have been one of those heroes of whom we have

given an account in a former note.

Page 413. The anger of the Dioscuri.'] We must not suppose

that a divine nature is capable of anger, or can be appeased by

gifts: for in this cafe it would be subject to pasfion, and influ­

enced by delight. But by such expressions as these nothing more

is implied than the effects which vice and virtue produce in our

fouls. For guilt, as Sallust * well observes, prevents us from re­

ceiving the illuminations of the gods, and subjects us to the power

of avenging dæmons; and prayers and sacrifices become the re­

medies of our vices, and cause us to partake of the goodness of

the gods. So that it is the fame thing, fays he, to assert that

divinity is turned from the evil, as to fay that the fun is concealed

from those who are deprived of sight.

Page 416. Sacadai and Pronomus.] For particulars respect­

ing Sacadas, consult the Corinthiacs and Eliacs of Pausanias,

Suidas informs us that Pronomus was a piper remarkable for his

great beard. He is also mentioned by Aristophanes in Ecclcfia-

zusis, and by Athenæus, lib. xiv. cap. 7.

Page 419. In the Iliad.'] The particulars respecting Patro-

clus are in Iliad 16. ver. 130; respecting the spies, in Iliad lo,

ver. 222; and respecting the spy sent to Troy, in Iliad 10.

rer. 244. The passage respecting those that were lest to guard

» Pe Diis et Mundo.

