FIRST VOLUME. tit

Called Melpomenos: and it would be by no means improper to

call the animating part Trieteric.

Page 7. They report indeed, that the father of Erichthoniut, £^f.]

The fables of the ancients are, in their secret meaning, utility

and construction, the most beautiful and admirable pieces of com­

position which the mind of man is capable of framing, though

nothing has been so little understood, or so shamefully abused.

Of the truth of this observation, the reader whose mind has

been enlightened by true science will be fully convinced by the

following explanation drawn from ancient sources of the fable

alluded to by Paufanias in this part. Previous to which it will

be proper to observe, that the first cause, according to the Pytha­

gorean and Platonic philosophers, on account of his transcendent

simplicity, was called the one, this name being adapted the best of

all others to a nature truly ineffable and unknown. But it is

impossible that such a nature could produce this visible world

without mediums, since, if this had been the cafe, all things must

have been like himself, natures ineffable and unknown. It is

^neecstary, therefore, that there should be certain mighty powers

between the first cause and us : for we in reality are nothing more

than the dregs of the universe. These mighty powers, from their

surpassing similitude to the first god, were very properly called

by the ancients gods; and- were considered by them as perpe­

tually subsisting in the most admirable and profound union with .

each other, and the first cause; yet so, as amidst this union to

preserve their own essence distinct from that of the highest god.

Hence, as Froclus beautifully observes, they may be compared to

trees rooted in the earth : for as these, by their roots, are united

with the earth, and become earthly in an eminent degree Avith*.

out being eatth itself; so the gods by their summits are pro­

foundly united to the first cause, and by this means are transcen­

dency similar to without being the first cause.

But these mighty powers are called by the poets a golden chain,

on account of their connection with each other, and incorrup­

tible

