ico NOTES ON THE

on account os the greater preparation required in its celebration,

was called the greater Panathcnaia; and the latter, on account of

its requiring a less apparatus, was denominated thelejfer Panatbe-

naia. The ctlebration of them likewise was distinguished by-

longer and sliorter periods of time. In the greater Panathenaia,

too, the veil of the goddess was carried about, in which, fays

Proclus, the giants were represented vanquished by the Olym­

pian gods. Proclus farther informs us (in Tim. p. 26.) that

these festivals signified the beautiful order wfcich proceeds into

the world from intellect, and the unconfused distinction of mun­

dane contrarieties. But what are we to understand by the veil

of the goddess, and the victory obtained over the giants? I an­

swer, Her veil is an emblem of that one life or nature of the

universe, which, as Proclus observes, the goddess weaves, by those

intellectual vital powers which her essence contains: and the bat­

tle of the giants against the Olympian gods, signifies the oppo­

sition between the last demiurgic powers of the universe (or

those powers which partially fabricate and proximately preside

over mundane natures), and such as are first. But Minerva is

said to have vanquished the giants, because she rules over these

ultimate artificers of things, by her unifying powers,

Page 85. Ar 'ifle and Call\Jle.~\ That is, hejl and miji beautiful.

It appears to me, that Diana was thus denominated from her

intimate alliance with Apollo: for Proclus, in his MSS. Scholia

on the Cratylus, informs us that there is a great correspondence

between the Coric* or virginal series, and the Apolloniacal.

"For (fays he) the former is the unity of the middle triad of

rulers, i. e. of the supermundane gods, and emits from herself

vivisic powers: but the latter converts the solar principles to one

union: and the solar principles are allotted a subsistence imme-

* Thisseries constitutes the vivisic triad of supermundane gods, and con­  
sists of Diana, Proserpine, and Minerva; or, according Co the Chaldasan

theologists, of Hecate, Soul, and Virtue, which are only different names

of the fame powers. >

diatelj

