3r6 NOTES ON THE

a flying eagle. See likewise Suidas, and Eustathius on the last

book of the IKad. Ptolemy therefore, from consuming most pro­

bably a great part of every day and night on the roof o? the

temple of Canobus, in the open air, for the space of forty years,

is very properly compared by Olympiodorus to Endymion.

Page io. They ought to consult the Delphic Apollo, about the

means of being freed from the evils, &cj] The prodigious ad­

vantages which mankind derived from prophecy, arc beautifully

ffiewn by Plato in the following passage from his Phædrus: "In­

deed, in the greatest diseases and labours, to which certain persons

are sometimes subject, through the indignation of the gods, in

Consequence of guilt; fury, when It takes place, predicting what

they stand in need of, discovers a liberation of such evils, by

flying to prayer and the worship of the gods. Hence, obtaining

by this means purifications, and the advantages of initiation, it

Tenders such a one free from disasters, both for the present and

suture time, by discovering to him a solution of his present evil,

through the means of one who is properly furious and divinely

inspired.

Page 15. Homer.'] Iliad II. v. 72 r.

Page 19. The golden race.] The different ages of mankind

which are celebrated by Hefiod in his Worh and Days, signify the

different lives which the individuals of the human species pass

through; and, as Proclus on Hefiod beautifully observes, they

may be comprehended in this triad, the golden, the JSver, and

the brazen age. But by the golden age an intellectual life is

implied. For such a life is pure, impassive, and free from for-

• row; and of this impassivity and purity gold is an image,

through its never being subject to rust or putrefaction. Such

a life too is very properly said to be under Saturn, because

Saturn, as we have before (hewn, is an intellectual god. By the

Jifoer age a rustic and natural life is implied, in which the at­

tention of the rational foul is entirely directed to the care of

the body, but without proceeding to the extremity of vice. And

