«94 NOTES ON THE

square a pure and immaculate order. And shortly after he adds,

"that the gods who are the authors to all things of stable dispo­

sition, of pure and uncontaminated order, and of uninclining

power, are very properly manifested as from an image by a qua­

drangular figure." As it is the province therefore of Mercury

to unfold and fill all things with truth, and truth is the fame with

sure simplicity; and as stability osejfcnct is derived from truth, we

may easily perceive the propriety of consecrating a square figure

to Mercury. As Hercules too, according to his mundane distri­

bution as a god, seems to be the fame with the Sun, according to

the Orphic theology, and Mercury, Venus and Apollo arc deities

of the fame order, and profoundly united to each other, we can­

not wonder that the statues of Hercules should resemble those of

Mercury.

Page 165. Avcrrunci.~\ These gods were worshipped as tbt

averters of evil, as their name implies.

Page 166. Cerei Prq/lajia.'] That is, Ceres to whom empire

htkrtgs.

Pdgc i(58. Sacred dragons.] A drag on, as we have before ob­

served, is a symbtd of the partial life of the soul; and health is sym­

metry, and asulssienee according to nature. But the soul, while (he

is separated from the divinities, or in other words leads a partial

life, lives in a manner contrary to her nature, and is diseased. She

icquires therefore the assistance of Æsculapius, or the god of

health, that (he may be restored to her true life. And hence the

propriety of consecrating dragons to Æsculapius. But a dragon

Or y be considered as the symbol of partial life of every kind, and

consequently of that mortal life which is participated by the

body, and which on the dissolution of the corporeal frame returns

to the whole from whence it was derived. This life therefore from

its partial nature requires the assistance of Æsculapius, and this

from its intimate connection with body in a most eminent degree j

so that by consecrating a dragon to Æsculapius, the ancients im-

that this divinity is the physician both of fouls and bodies.

8 Page

