NOTES ON THE

A dragon, too, is very properly considered as one of the symbols

belonging to this goddess. For, as we have before observed, tbii

animal signifies the partial life of the foul, or, in other words,

the condition of its intellect when separated from diif'me intelltBs:

and it is the province of Minerva, as we are informed by Proclus,

to establish all partial intellects, in the universal intellect of Jupiter.

With respect to Pandora, it is well known that, according to

the fable, (he was a woman made out of earth by Vulcan, at the

command of Jupiter, in order to take vengeance on Prometheus

for having stolen fire from heaven; that she was adotned by each

god with some particular gift; and that stie was afterwards sent

by Jupiter to Epimetheus the brother of Prometheus with a box

full of all-various evils. The recondite meaning however of this

fable is, I fear, at present perfectly unknown; and therefore 1

shall present the reader with the following beautiful explanation

of it from the MS. Scholia of Olympiodorus on the Gorgias of

Plato:—" Prometheus is the infpective guardian of the descent of

lational souls: for to exert a providential energy is the employ­

ment of the rational foul, and prior to any thing else, to know

itself. Irrational natures indeed perceive through percuffion,

and prior to impulsion know nothing: but the rational nature is

able, prior to information siom another, to know what is use­

ful. Hence F.pimetbeut is the infpective .guardian of the

irrational foul, because it knows through percuffion, and not

prior to it. Prometheus, therefore, is that power which presides

over the descent of rational souls. But Jire signifies the rational

soul itself; because, as sire tends upwards, so the rational soul

pursues things on high. But you will fay, Why is this fire said to

have been stolen? I answer, That which is stolen is transferred

from its proper place to one that is foreign. Since, therefore,

the rational soul is sent from its proper place of abode on high,

to earth as to a foreign region, on this account the fire is said to

be stolen. But why was it concealed in a reed? Because a reed

is cavernous like a conduit pipe (afftyysijijf), and therefore sig­

nifies

