tto NOTES ON THE

The same must be understood of every other divinity, considered

according to his highest subsistence j viz. that various other divi­

nities of the fame characteristic proceed from him into the part*

of the world: and if the reader carefully attends to this theory,

when he reads Homer, or the fables of any other ancient theolo­

gical poet, and is able to apply it properly, he will find that the

theology of the ancients is founded in a theory no less beautifully

connected than astonishingly profound ; no less enchanting than

scientific; no less true than marvellous and mystic. See more

concerning this most important subject, in my Note* on the Cra-

tylus, and Introduction to the Parmenides of Plato; in my

Translation of Sallust on the Gods and the World; and of the

Emperor Julian's Oration to the Sun, and to the Mother of the

Cods.

Page 4. Thegoddejses calledGcnetyllides.] The Scholiast upon

Aristophanes informs us that Genetyllis is an epithet of yeans,

and that she is so called because she presides over the generation

of animals. Perhaps therefore, as there are two Venuses, as we

shall fee hereafter, the Genetyllides are these two.

Page 6. And of Iacchus holding a torch. ] There is great pro­

priety in representing Iacchus or Bacchus with a torch; for

Bacchus is the mundane intelkH; and fire with the ancients was

very properly considered as a symbol of inttllcH, from its tending

upwards.

Page 6.—and this Bacchus they call Melpomenos.] The Orphic

theologists,asIhaveshcwn inp.iot of the Dissertation prefixed to

my Translation of Orphcus's Hymns, called the intellect of each

of the celestial spheres, by some one of the appellations of Bacchus,

and the foul, or animating part of the sphere, by the name of

one of the Muses. Agreeably to this, in the orb of the fun, they

called the intelleHive part, Trictcricus Bacchus, and the animating

part Melpomene. But as the intellect and foul of the fun, and so

of every other orb, form one divine nature, from their admirable

union with each other, the intellect of this sphere may be justly

called

