NOTES ON THE

mome motion to their ruling gods. Hence, when the soul is I*

the heavens, they are desirous of uniting it to the divine life

which flourishes there. But it is proper that souls living in ge­

neration should fail beyond them, like the Homeric Ulysses, that

they may not be allured by generation, of which the sea is an

image. And when souls are in Hades, the Sirens are desirous of

uniting them through intellectual conceptions to Pluto. So that

Plato knew that in the kingdom of Hades there are gods, dæ­

mons, and souls, who dance as it were round Pluto, allured by

the Sirens that dwell there."

But here a doubt may very naturally arise in the mind of the

reader unskilled in philosophy, how the Sirens, who are divine

powers, can be said to be desirous of connecting souls with gene­

ration, which is baneful to the soul. To this I answer, that the

alluring power of the Sirens benefits impure souls, by subjecting

them to generation; as their latent guilt is by this means drawn

forth, and they are thus prepared for that punishment, which

being inflicted for the most benevolent purposes, is in such as

these necessary to the acquisition of a perfect life. But these

divine natures benefit pure souls by their alluring power, because

through this they call forth the virtues of such souls into energy,

which would otherwise remain in a dormant state.

Page 123. Minerva Pronoia.~\ i. e. Providential Minerva.

Phurnutus informs us, that temples were raised in honour of Mi­

nerva Pronoia, because this goddess is the fame with the provi­

dence which subsists in Jupiter. I only add, that providence

(t^orjhx) evidently signifies an energy prior lo inlelleB (»{o nu),

and is therefore an energy of the gods, who are superiutellectual

natures.

Page :24. Alctvi\ Was a lyric poet, who flourished about

the 44th Olympiad, aud was contemporary, according to Hero-

dotus,-with Periander. His poetry was celebrated for its great

resemblance to that of Homer j but at present nothing but frag­

ments of it remain.

5 p»Se

