FIRST VOLUME.

nifies the fluid body (to {tvrov o-upm) in which the foul is carried.

But why was the fire stolen contrary to the will of Jupiter?

Again the fable speaks as a fable: for both Prometheus and Ju­

piter are willing that the foul should abide on high; but as it is

requisite that (lie should descend, the fable fabricates particulars

accommodated to the persons. And it represents, indeed, the

superior character, which is Jupiter, as unwilling; for he wishes

the foul always to abide on high: but the inferior character Pro­

metheus obliges her to descend. Jupiter therefore ordered Pan­

dora to be made. And what else is this, than the irrational soul*,

which is of a feminine characteristic? For as it was necessary

that the soul should descend to these lower regions, but, being

incorporeal and divine, it was impossible for her to be conjoined

with body without a medium, hence she becomes united with it

through the irrational foul. But this irrational foul was called

Pandora, because each of the gods bestowed on it some particular*

gift. And tlvs signifies that the illuminations which terrestrial

natures receive, take place through the celestial bodiesf."

I add farther concerning Minerva, from Proclus on the Ti-

tnæus, that she is called Phospher, because she extends the whole

of intellectual light. The Saviour, as establishing every partial

intellect in the total intellections of her father Jupiter. Calliergos,

or producing beautiful works, as comprehending all the works of

her father in intellectual beauty. A virgin, as extending an

undefiled and unmingled purity. Atgiochos,. or egis-bcaring, as

moving the whole of Fate, and governing its productions. Phi­

losophic, as replete with intellectual knowledge, and the light of

wisdom. And Phi'opolemic, as uniformly ruling over the oppos-

• The true man, or the rational soul, consists of intellect, cogitation, and

opinion: but the summit of the irrational life is the phantasy under which
Jijirt

like a many-headed savage beast, mi anger like a raging lion, subsist.

■f- For the irrational soul is an immaterial body, or, in other words,
vitalized

extension, such as (he mathematical bodies which w« frame in the phantasy; and

the*celestial kodies are of this kind.

Vol. IIL R in*

