NOTES ON THE

stopped, lest something worse than things last mould be pro­

duced; in order to accomplish this, the demiurgus of generable

and corruptible nature, sending prolific powers into the realms of

generation, is again conjoined with the gods.

"But these things indeed never took place at any particular

time, because they have a perpetuity of subsistence: and intel­

lect contemplates all things as subsisting together; but discourse

considers this thing as first, and that as second, in the order os

existence." For a further explanation of tlu's fable, which being

of the mixed species, belongs, as we are informed by Sallust, to

mysticsacrifices, fee my translation of the emperor Julian's Oration

to the Mother of the Gods.

Page 223. Homer.'] Iliad 21. ver. 446. The reader must

carefully observe, that the Neptune and Apollo mentioned in

these verses were heroes, and not gods. With respect to the statue

of Apollo standing on the skull of an ox, the meaning of this will

be apparent from considering, that as the moon (as we have al­

ready shewn from Porphyry) is the queen of generation, Apollo, or

the fun, who is paternally all that the moon is maternally, must

be the king of generation, of which a bull or an ox is a symbol.

Hence his treading on the head of an ox signifies his dominion

over the realms of generation, and particularly over its summit,

ether.

Page 225. The oracle in Dodona.] Jupiter's oracle at Dodona

was the most ancient of all the oracles of Greece prior to the

Flood,and was restored by Deucalion after it. The Scholiast upon

the 16th Iliad, v. 233, &c. informs us from a very ancient author,

Thrasybulus, that Deucalion after the Flood, which happened in

his time, having got safe upon the firm land of Epirus, prophe­

sied in an oak; and by the admonition of an oraculous dove

having gathered together such as were saved from the flood,

caused them to dwell together in a certain place or country, which

from Jupiter, and Dodaiia, one of the Oceanides, they called Do­

dona. At Dodona there were brazen kettles, which it is said

were

