NOTES ON THE

strates: durfng the day, whoever pleased was at liberty to go and

satisfy his hunger. The natives of the place affirm, that the earth

spontaneously produces all these viapds: this however is what

they term the table of the Sun." I have given the passage

as translated by Mr. Beloe.

Page 99. Alias it so lofty, (sfc,"] The great height of the

mountain Atlas is very successfully employed by Proclus in Tim.

p. 56, as an argument for the truth of that Platonic hypothesis

concerning the earth, which we have mentioned in a former

note. The passage in which he employs this argument is as

follows; "It is here requisite to remember the Platonic hypo­

theses concerning the earth. For Plato does not measure its

magnitude after the same manner as mathematicians; but thinks

%hat its interval is much greater, as Socrates asserts in the Phaedo,

In whieh dialogue also he fays, that there are many habitable

parts similar to the places of our abode. And hence he relates,

that an island and continent of this kind existed in the external

pr Atlantic sea. For indeed, if the earth be naturally spherical,

it is necessary that it should be such according to its greatest part.

But the parts which we inhabit, both internally and externally,

exhibit great inequality. In some parts of the earth, therefore,

there must be an expanded plain, and an interval extended on

high. For, according to the faying of Heraclitus, he <wbopa/set

through a very profound region will arrive at the Atlantic mountain,

•whose magnitude is such, according to the relation of the ^Ethiopian

historians, that it touches the tether, andcajls a shadow of Jive thou­

sand Jladia in extent; for from the ninth hour of the day the fun it

concealed by it, even to his perfect demerfion under the earth. Nor

is this wonderful: for Athos, a Macedonian mountain, casts a

shadow as far as to Lcmnos, which is distant from it seven

hundred stadia. Nor are such particulars as these, which Mar-

cellus the Æthiopic historian mentions, related only concerning

the Atlantic mountain; but Ptolemy also fays that the Lunar

mountains are of an immense height; and Aristotle, that Can-"

casua,

