FIRST VOLUME. 265

casus it enlightened by the rays of the fun a third part of the

night after fun-set, and a third part before the rising of the fun.

And if any one considers the whole magnitude of the earth,

bounded by its elevated parts, he will conclude that it is truly

of a prodigious magnitude, according to the assertion of Plato."

I only add, that what Proclus observes here from Ptolemy about

the height of the Lunar mountains is contradicted by Mr. Bruce,

who fays in his book, on the Source of the Nile, that these

mountains are by no means ef that prodigious altitude which

they were supposed to be by the ancients. However, for my

own part, I prefer Ptolemy's authority to that of Mr. Bruce,

notwithstanding the person of Mr. Bruce during his travels

was, as he informs us, by no means despicable; and in addition

to this, his circumstances, were affluent, and his connections

powerful!

Page 101. / can also mention others, that tvere once men, an J

were after their death •worshipped at gods by the Greels."] I have

already abundantly (hewn in a former note, that there is an order

of fouls among men, who from their superior purity, and magna,

nimity, and their proximity to beings essentially more excellent,

were very properly denominated by the ancients, heroes. These

elevated souls, too, were justly called by the fame names as the

divinities from which they descended: for the characteristic of

every divine nature extends itself to the last of things, so as even

to leave a vestige of its ineffable prerogatives in the dark and re­

bounding receptacle of matter. Heroes however, though they

were worshipped by the ancients, yet they were neither consi­

dered as gods, nor worshipped as such, by those who paid them

no other honours than what were ordained by the Grecian laws,

as is evident from Plato's Laws. Pausanias therefore, in the pas.

sage before us, feemc, for want of a philosophical acquaintance

with the religion of his country, to confound the divine and hu­

man nature: and it is to passages of this nature that we must;

ascribe the general prevalence at present of that most licentiou*

and

