FIRST VOLUME. j79

Page 123. Upon •which they say Apollo laid hit harp."] As the

characteristics of all the divine orders are participated by the last

of things, hence a vestige of supernal light is not only visible in

plants, but in particular stones. Thus, as Proclus observes in

his small treatise Dc Magia, "the sun-stone by its golden raya

imitates those of the sun; but the stone called the eye of heaven,

or of the sun, has a figure similar to the pupil of an eye, and a

ray shines from the middle of the pupil. Thus too the lunar

tysone, which has a figure similar to the moon when horned, by a

certain change of itself, follows the lunar motion. And the stone

called Iselioselenus, i. e. of the fun and moon, imitates after a man­

ner the congress of those luminaries, which it images by its co­

lour." This being the cafe, it is by no means wonderful, that

there should be certain stones which possess a debile vestige of

the divine harmony of Apollo: and the stone mentioned by Pau-

sanias, from its being one of this kind, may have occasioned the

fabulous report, that Apollo laid his harp on it.

Page 1 a5. An heroic monument of Ino.~\ By Ino the ancients

signified symbolically the sublunary element water, as the follow­

ing passage from the MS. Commentary of Olympiodorus on the

Phædo evinces: 0 xaSpof p'.i 0 nrori?.ii>«; >.a?uo; u; iwnxrutxof, ito xeu

affiojia (Tt/eriTy Biu, xou rmtizlafuv Za.K)(f>f wains. Tio-o-apa it re*Xu*

ctoivmccitcL irwouo-i, atptto (*iv to CTp, ctyxvtt it t»» yrn, tiourvcutra t«

oixiix ynvipala, ua it to :aa , iiu\io; ovea,, j£ atloioi) it Ton atfet, 7)

Xompi. i. e. ** Cadmus is the sublunary world, as being Diony-

siacal, on which account Harmony is united to the god, and as

being the father of the four Bacchuses. But they make the sous

elements to be Dionysiacal; viz. firetobe Semele; earth, Agave,

tearing in pieces her own offspring; -water, Ino; and lastly air,

Aulonoe."

Page 125. Hefiod in his catalogue of viomtn, £sV.] The mean­

ing of Hcsiod, in the passage alluded to by Pausauiasin his Cata­

logue of Women (which work is unfortunately loit^, is this, as

it appears to me: Iphigenia after her death became united with

T 4 Hecate,

