T1RST VOLUME. 291

That is, " Typhon is the cause of the violent motion of all-various

subterranean vapours and waters, and the other elements. But

Æchidna is an avenging cause, and the punisher of rational and

irrational souls; on which account her upper parts are those of a

virgin, and her lower parts resemble those of a serpent. And

Python is the guardian of the whole of prophetic exhalation; or,

we may fay with greater propriety, that he is the cause of the dis­

order and obstruction about exhalations of this kind." As the

prophetic power therefore proceeds originally from Apollo, the

opposition of energy between Apollo and Python, and the domi-

nion of that of the former over that of the latter, gave rife to the

fable mentioned in this place by Paufanias. Diana too may be

said to have assisted Apollo in slaying Python, in consequence of

the wonderful union between these two divinities.

Page isi t. For Hesiodfays'] In hit Works and Days, lib. i.

v. 263.

Page 162. Mercury Forenfis.~\ Mercury was thus denomi­

nated as presiding over affairs of law: and the propriety of this

appellation will be evident from considering that Mercury is the

source of gymnastic, music, and reasoning; that reasoning is an intcl-

IcBual operation, and that law, as Plato (De Legibus) beauti­

fully observes, is nv itetfu-n, the distribution os intellect. For the

fake of the liberal reader, I (hall further observe concerning Mer«

cury, that he is the source os invention: and hence he is said to be

the son of Maia; because search, which is implied by Maia, leads

invention into light. He bestows too mathests on fouls, by un­

folding the will of his father Jupiter; and this he accomplices at

the angel or messenger of Jupiter. Proclus in MS. Comment. .

in Aleibiad. observes, "that be is the inspective guardian of

gymnastic exercises; and hence hermtc, or carved statuts of Mer­

cury, were placed in the Palæstra: of music, and hence he is ho­

noured as the lyrist Avjxzwc among the celestial constellations: and

of discipRnts, because the invention of geometry, reasoning and

U z discourse

