FIRST VOLUME. 263

"But in die watry element he is the cause of fertility, facility

of motion, and all-various powers: for, according to the poet*,

From him the sea and ev'ry river flows.

In earth he is the source of generative perfection, of the dis­

tinction of forms, and of generation and corruption. Hence,

such terrestrial orders as are vivific and demiurgic he defines;

and such powers as comprehend the reasons of earth, and are the

infpective guardians of generation, he excites and multiplies,

and calls forth into motion." And shortly after, he adds,

"that Ocean in fine is the cause of all motion; intellectual, be­

longing to fouls ; and natural, to all secondary natures: but Te-

tbjs is the cause.of all the distinction os the streams proceeding

from the Ocean, conferring on each a proper purity of natural

motion."

I only add, that it is peculiar to the Platonic philosophy to

suspend physics from theology, and this in imitation of Orpheus,

who suspends Nature herself from the vivisic goddess Rhea, who

is the cause of all life, both that which is intellectual, and that

which is inseparable from the fluctuating nature of bodies.

This peculiarity must surely be pleasing to every one that is

not atheistically inclined; at the fame time, that by leading us

up to such principles as are truly first, it enables us to remove

the veil which conceals the mystic wisdom of the ancients, and

causes it to appear in the eyes of the multitude inextricably con­

fused, and beyond all comparison absurd. The trutli of this

observation will be immediately assented to, by any one who

understands the above explanation of Ocean.

Page 98. Table os the Sun.~\ The table of the Sun, according

to Herodotus in Thai, was this:—"A plain in the vicinity of

the city (above Syene in Æthiopia) was filled to the height

of four feet with the roafled flesh of all kinds of animals, which

was carried there in the night, under the inspection of the magi-

* Homer.

S 4 strates,

