156 NOTES ON THE

pumice stone; and that we reside at the bottom of certain of

these hollows, while we fancy that we dwell on the summit of

the earth. The great antiquity of this doctrine may be collected

from what Homer fays in the Iliad, that Heaven and Earth are

common to the three divinities, Jupiter, Neptune, and Pluto*:

and consequently each of these mull be divided between them.

The earth, therefore,must be divided analogous to the universe;

into that which is celestial, terrestrial, and middle. And there

must be some part of it ethereal, which belongs to Jupiter. As

this part therefore cannot be the surface on which we reside, it

must consequently be contiguous to the moon. See more con­

cerning this curious and interesting theory, in my Introductions

to the Phædo and Timæus of Plato.

Page 93. Ceres Anefidora.~\ This word means the bejlower of

gifts, and is agreeable to the etymon of Ceres given by Plato in

the Cratylus: for Jiytiilup, fays he, is Ji?<»<r<* luStf, a he/lowing

mother. But why this goddess was so called by the wife ancients,

the following beautiful extract from the MSS. Scholia of Proclus

on the Cratylus will abundantly unfold: "It is requisite to

consider this goddess, not only as the supplier of corporeal food,

but, beginning from the gods, we should view her as first of all

supplying them with aliment, afterwards the natures posterior

to the gods, and last of all such as are indigent of corporeal

aliment. For the characteristic of love shines forth first of

all in the gods: and this is the cafe with the medicinal and

prophetic powers of Apollo, and with those of every other

divinity. But nutriment, when considered with reference to the

gods, is the communication of intellectual plenitude from more

exalted natures to those of au inferior rank. Gods therefore

are nourished, when they view with the eye of intellect gods

prior to themselves; when they are persecteJ, and view intelli­

gible beauties, such as justice itself, temperance itself, and the

* Tcua y lit |tw vajlut kcu paxfo; oTifftiej. Iliad. 15.

like.

-

