28o NOTES ON THE

Hecate, from whom she originally descended; and on this account

might be said to be changed into Hecate, on account of wholly

subsisting through union, according to the characteristic of that

goddess. I only add, that according to Orpheus, as we are in­

formed by Proclus on the Cratylus, there is a great union between

Diana, the mundane Hecate, and Proserpine; and that Orpheus

calls Diana, Hecate.

Page. 125. Herodotus <writes.~\ In Melpom. p. 133. edit. Basil.

Page 127. Hecaerge and Ops.'] These are two names of Diana,

the former alluding to the emission of the moon's rays, and sig­

nifying far-darting; and the latter alluding to the beauty of

Diana's countenance: for Opts, according to Callimachus, in his

hymn to this goddess, signifies <i beautiful countenance:

Pajje 127. Imeros and sJpdhos.] According to Plato in the

Cratylus, the former of these words signifies amaiorial desire of a

present oljeil, and the latter, desire of an absent oljcB.

Page 129. Apollo Tnlelaris.~] i. e. Apollo, the guardian of the

city: for every city, as is well known, according to the ancient

theology, has its guardian deity. But we learn from Olympi-

odorus in Comment. MS. in Platonis Alcibiadem, that of the

mundane gods from v> hich bodies alone are suspended, some are

celestial t pno;, others elhrrial or JL ry aiS.pioi five vvfui, others

aerial mpici, others aquatic mvp,i, others terrestrial ^9cnoi, and

others fubtartarcan vaS\u^aet». But that among the tcrre/lrial,

some preside over climeles, or arc climutarcibic x^t^alctf^ai, others

are guardians of cities croXiot^oi, and others lastly are toe guar­

dians of houses xaoix>#»i. Let the re?der too carefully remem­

ber, that these allotments of the divinities arc immutable; viz.

that though parts of the earth may become at times unfit to

receive divine influence, through subsisting contrary to nature, as

I have observed in a former note, yet the beneficent illumi­

nations of the gods continue invariably the fame.

Page

