FIRST VOLUME. 229

all possibility of recovering the use of it, in the present life,

may be convinced of the truth of the preceding observations, let

him attend to the following information derived from the phi­

losophy of Pythagoras and Plato.

There are three orders of fouls which are the perpetual at­

tendants of the gods. The first of these orders angels compose;

the second, dæmons; and the third, heroes. But as there is no

vacuum either in incorporeal or corporeal natur.-s, but on the

contrary profound union, it is necessary, in order to accomplish

this, that the last link of a superior order should coalesce with the

summit of one proximately inferior. Hence therefore, between

essential heroes, who perpetually attend the gods, and are con­

sequently impassive and pure, nnd the bulk of human souls who

descend with pasfivity and impurity, it is necessary there should

be an order of human souls, who descend with impassivity and

purity. These souls were called by the ancients with great pro­

priety Heroes, on account of their high degree of proximity and

alliance to such as are essentially Heroes. Hercules, Theseus, Py­

thagoras, Plato, &c. were fouls of this kind, who descended into

generation both to benefit other souls, and in compliance with

that necessity by which all natures inferior to the perpetual at­

tendants of the gods are at times obliged to descend. The cha­

racteristics of these heroic souls are, grandeur of action, elevation,

and magnificence: and Plato in his Laws fays, that we ought to

Venerate them, and perform funera! sacrifices in honour of their

memory. They are too of an undefiled nature when compared

with other human fouls, than whom they are likewise far more

intellectual. They have much of an elevated nature, and which

is properly liberated from an inclination to matter. Hence they

are easily led back to the intelligible world, in which they live

for many periods; while, on the contrary, the most irrational kind

of fouls are either never led back, or this is accomplished with

great difficulty, or continues for a very inconsiderable period of

time,

(^3 - But

