268 NOTES ON THE

to its monad preceding dissimilar multitude, it is necessary that

each of these heroic souls should be the leader of other fouls of an

inferior rank, but yet resembling their leader in a high degree.

Thus Achilles in the Iliad, who, as we have observed in a former

cote, is an heroic foul energizing according to practical virtue,

stands at the head of a kindred multitude of souls, who, from their

proximity to. such characters as himself, are dignified with the

appellation of heroes. Ajax belonged to this kindred multitude,

together with Tidydes, Ulysses, and many others; this multi­

tude at the fame time possessing gradations of excellence, in order

that its extremity may coalesce with less elevated fouls. It is

therefore by no means wonderful, that Ajax possessed such re­

markable strength and magnitude of body, as he belonged to

that class of souls who approximate very near to real heroes

among men.

But a very natural doubt may here arise in the mind of the

thinking reader, why Æneas, who is said to have been born of a

goddess, as well as Achilles, and of a goddess of a much higher

rank than the mother of Achilles, is represented by Homer as

engaged in a bad cause, which he evidently is, by fighting

for the Trojans. I answer, that the doubt may be solved, by

reading Homer with that profound attention which his poems

so justly demand. For we mail find, that though he calls Æneas

a hero, as well as Achilles, from his resembling true heroes in

many respects, yet he plainly evinces that his claim to this cha­

racter was not incontrovertible, when he represents Apollo thus

speaking to Æneas: (Iliad. :o. v. 105.)

t& as <pztn Aio; xoffi; AippoMiij

Exyi- aaEf.

i. e. "For they say that you are descended from Venus the

, daughter of Jupiter." For here the term they fay plainly indi­

cates that his claim to this honour was ambiguous: but he never

uses an expression of this k-ind when he speaks of Achilles. I

add, that these periods of fertility and sterility depend on the

different

