28a NOTES ON.THE

resemblance os all forms, like a ] tnirror receiving the representa­

tions 6f all things; and to fay t hat she is the cause of oblivion

to those that look into her? Wh y is it necessary to call Apollo

harmony, as subsisting from Lato na and Jupiter? For thus the

god would be inseparable from mi ;tter, and not the cause of the

harmony in the universe. It is be tter therefore to fay, that La-

tona is not the receptacle of Apol 'lo, but that she is the mother

and fountain of all vivific light, which preserves all things by

heat: but that Apollo, who is a sej ">arate divinity, is the supplier

of all harmonic life, and of all those mundane reasons by which

the universe is indissolubly bound. But you may fay that So­

crates derives her name from Lethe, 1 because she peculiarly causes

in fouls an oblivion of evils,"and of t he roughness and storms in

generation; of which while the foul rt tains the memory, she can­

not possibly establish herself in inu j\L giblee: for memory, says

Plotinus, leads to the object of me moi y. And as Mntmofyne

excites the memory of intelligibles, so Latona imparts an oblivion

of material concerns."

Page 130. Diana the Saviour.,] The epithet of the Saviour, as

may be inferred from Proclus on' the Cratyhis, was given by the

ancients to all the celestial gods in common. For, speaking of the

Christians of his time, he obsertn ;s: "Men of the present day

do not believe that the fun and n ioon are divinities, nor do they

worship the other celestial natu -es, who are our Saviours and

governours, leading b:.ck immor tal fouls, and being those that

fabricate and give subsistence to > nortal souls*. I should how­

ever say, that men of this kind.. , who dare to entertain such an

irrational opinion respecting the celestial gods, arc hastening to

Tartarus, and to the most ir.cf Table and inordinate part of the

universe."

Page 136. Neptune contended • with the Sun."] There are two

ways of considering the battles • of the gods, which are so much

celebrated in fable; and each of these solves all the apparent

* i. e. to the fouls of brutes.

absurdity

