THIRD VOLUME. 353

♦he Delphic prophetess predicted future events, but the manner

in which this was accomplished by the prophetesses in Colophon

and Branchidæ j and satisfactorily shews us how the gods com­

municate prophecy to mankind.

"It is acknowledged by all men, that the oracle in Colophon

gives its answers through the medium of water: for there is a

fountain in a subterranean dwelling, from which the prophetess

drinks; and on certain established nights, after many sacred ntel

have been previously perfoimed, and she has drunk of- the foun­

tain, she delivers oracles, but is not visible to those that are pre­

sent. That this water therefore is prophetic, is from hence ma­

nifest. But how it becomes so, this (according to the proverb)

is not for every man to know. For it appears as if a certain pro­

phetic spirit pervaded through the water. This is not however

in reality the cafe. For a divine nature does not pervade through

its participants in this manner, according to interval and division,

but comprehends as it were externally, and illuminates the foun­

tain, and fills it from itself with a prophetic power. For the in­

spiration which the water affords is not the whole of that which

proceeds from a divine power, but the water itself only prepares

us^tand purifies our luciform spirit, so that we may be able to re­

ceive the divinity; while in the mean time there is a presence of

divinity prior to this, and illuminating from on high. And this

indeed is not absent from any one, who through aptitude is ca­

pable of being conjoined with it. But this divine illumination is

immediately present, and uses the prophetess as an instrument;

she neither being any longer mistress of herself, nor capable of

attending to what she says, nor perceiving where (he is. Hence

after prediction she is scarcely able to recover herself. And be­

fore she drinks the water, flic abstains from food for a whole day

and night; and retiring to certain sacred places, inaccessible to

the multitude, begins to receive in them the enthusiastic energyi

Through her departure, therefore, and separation from human

concerns, she renders herself pure, and by this means adapted to

Vol. III. A a the

