SECOND VOLUME. 337

sents Jupiter estaUfffied In himself, while the multitude of gods

that proceed from him, at one time abide with their parent, and

at another proceed into the universe, and providentially energize

about mundane affairs. And this appears to be the meaning of

the other fable. Pausanias, therefore, is very right in conjectur足

ing that these sables respecting Saturn contain something of the

wisdom of the Greeks; for they arc indeed replete with the

fublimest wisdom, as the intelligent reader will easily perceive.

Page 269. Homer."] Iliad 2. v. 231. and Iliad 12.V. 202, Sec.

Page 294. Hesiod'indeedin his Theogony mates mention of Styx.]

The lines alluded to in the Theogony are 383, &c. It appears

to me that Styx, considered according to its first subsistence, is

the cause by which divine natures retain an immutable sameness

of essence. It is somewhat strange that Pausanias should be

dubious whether Hesiod composed the Theogony, when it ii

cited as the production of Hesiod by Plato and Aristotle.

Page 295. Homer.] The passage respecting the oath of Juno

is Iliad 15. v. 36; concerning Titaresius, Iliad 2. v. 755 ; and

concerning the preservation of Hercules by Minerva, Iliad 4.

v. 366.

Page 299. Homer."] Homer in the eleventh Iliad uses the word

MXhSvmhi 1. e. Lucina.

Page 300. That Jhe is the fame with Pepromene or Faie.] Pin足

dar, in his seventh Nemcan Ode, says that Lucina is the assessor

of the Fates: and this is agreeable to the doctrine in the Orphic

hymns. For the moon, or Diana, is according to these hymns

the fame with Lucina: and in the hymn to Nature, which, as we

have before shewn, principally flourishes in the moon, that god足

dess is expressly called Pepromene.

Page 309. Homer.'] Iliad 24. v. 527.

By the two vessels placed by the throne of Jupiter, out of

which he distributes good and evil to mankind, we must under足

stand the two primary causes of good and evil to fouls, which

subsist in the intellect of Jupiter. I only add, that a truly wor-

Vol. III. Z' thy

