FIRST VOLUME.

diately after the vlvisic. Hence, according to Orpheus, when

Ceres delivered up the government to Proserpine, she thus ad­

monished her:

AJIaf A-oX/.airoj SaAif«» Xijjof wanaZcum^

i. e.

But next Apollo's florid bed ascend;

For thus the god fam'd offspring (hall beget,

Refulgent with the beams of glowing fire.

But how could this be the cafe, unless there was a considerable

degree of communion between these divinities?" As A polio, there­

fore, from his analogy to the good, or the first cause, may very pro­

perly be called the lejl (for Apollo emits from his esfenct intellec­

tual, and the good superessential light), Diana likewise may be thus

denominated from her intimate alliance with Apollo. The fame

reason too accounts for her being called mojl beautiful: for Mer­

cury, Venus, and Apollo, compose the supermundane elevating

triad, and are most profoundly united to each other.

Page 91. The demon Anteros.~] Of this power, who avenges

the injuries of lovers, the following remarkable story is told by

Eunapius in his Life of Jamblichus: "This philosopher went

with his disciples to Gadara in Syria, a place so famous for baths,

that after Baiæ in Campania it is the second in the Roman em­

pire. Here a dispute about baths arising while they were bath­

ing, Jamblichus smiling said to them: 'Though what I am

going to disclose is not pious, yet for your fakes it (hall be un­

dertaken;' and at the fame time he ordered his disciples to en­

quire of the natives, what appellations had been formerly given

to two of the hot fountains, which were indeed less than the

others, but more elegant. Upon enquiry, they found themselves

unable to discover the cause of their nomination; but were in­

formed that the one was t ailed Eros or Love, and the other An-

teros, or the god ivho avenges the injuries of lovers. Jamblichus

immediately touching the water with his hand (for he fat, per­

haps, on the margin of the fountain),and murmuring a few words,

raised

