FIRST VOLUME. 323

This being premised, as a specimen of the manner in which

fables are to be understood, let us consider the meaning of that

to which Pausaniasalludes. According to the fable, then, Vulcan

falling in love with Minerva, emitted his feed on the earth, and

from hence sprang the race of the Athenians. ■ By Vulcan,

therefore, we must understand that divine power which presides

over the spermatic and physical reasons which the universe con­

tains: for whatever Nature accomplishes by verging towards

bodies, the fame Vulcan performs in a divine and exempt manner,

by moving Nature, and using her as an instrument in his own

proper fabrication : for natural heat has a Vulcanian characteristic,

and was produced by Vulcan for the purpose of fabricating a cor­

poreal nature. Vulcan, therefore, is that power which perpe­

tually presides over the fluctuating nature of bodies: and hence,

fays Olympiodorus, he operates with bellows (iifvrai;), which

occultly signifies his operating in natures (avli nv ntatf fiwicn).

But by earth we must understand matter, which was thus symboli­

cally denominated by the ancients, as we learn from Porphyry de

Antr. Nymph. By Minerva we must understand the summit xopvpn

of all those intellectual natures that reside in Jupiter, the artificer

of the world: or, in other words, (he is that deity which illuminates

all mundane natures with intelligence. The Athenians therefore,

who are fouls of a Minerval characteristic, may be very properly

said to be the progeny of Vulcan and the Earth, because Vulcan,

who perpetually imitates the intellectual energy of Minerva in his

fabrication of the sensible universe, imparts to them through this

imitation those -vehicles, and those spermatic reasons through which,

in conjunction with matter, they become inhabitants of this ter­

restrial abode. And thus much for the fable alluded to by Pau­

sanias. For farther information on the most interesting subjects

discussed in this note, fee my tranflation of the Cratylus, Phædo,

Parmenides and Timæus of Plato; my Dissertation on the Eleu-

siuian and Bacchic Myiteiies; my Translation of Sallust on the

Gods

t

