3ta NOTES ON THE

on the sea of generation. Her rudder too is fixed on a globs,

because slie directs that which is unstable in generation. Iu her

other hand ihe holds the horn of Amullhea, which is full of fruits,

because (he is the cause oi obtaining all divine fruits. And on

this account we venerate the fortunes of cities and houses, and of

each individual; because, being veiy remote from divine union,

we are in danget of being deprived of iu participation, and re­

quire in order to obtain it the assistance os the goddess Fortune,

and of those natures* superior to the human who possess the cha-

racteiistic of this divinity. Indeed every fortune is good; for every

■ attainment refpeBssomething good, nor dtes any thing evilJuhfifl from

divinity. But of thing) good some are preccdan:ous, and others are

of a punishing or revenging charaBerijlic, which <we are acctiftomed to

call evils. Hence lue speak of two Fortunes, one of which we de-

nominate GOOD, and which is the cause of our obtaining preceaancout

goods, and ihe other evil, which prepares us to receive punishment or

revenge."

From this beautiful passage it is easy to see why Fortune in the

Orphic hymns is called Diana; for each of these divinities governs

the sublunary world. At the same time it is a singular circum­

stance, that among the images of Fortune in Montfaucon there is

but one with a rudder on a globe.

Page 425. Iliad.'] Minerva, and Enyo, or BeVona, are men­

tioned together, Iliad 5. v. 333. Nuptials are4faid to be taken care

of by Venus. Iliad 5. ver. 429.

Page 430. Particularly by riato, the son of jfri/Ion.'] That

Plato firmly believed in the immortality of the foul, is evident

from his Phatdrus, the tenth book of his Republic, and his seventh

epistle, which contains the following remarkable passage: t»9w-

Sai Si ct?»j an yjp Toi; roAcuoif ti not iifcif Aeyoi; S ct) fintiovau

«$«iu1o» f,v}r,i i;im, «a,-e; ti if; sn, x<u TWM T»{ («:'.'-».; ii^i'w*:,

olai ti{ ara^ax^yi rov ffa/uetV. i.e. "It is proper indeed always to

believe in ancient and sacred discourses, which announce to u»

* i. e. Augels, dæmons, and heraes.

that

