FIRST VOLUME. *S3

Apollo, to whom the swan is sacred; and consequently this bird

plainly signified Plato in the dream of Socrates. Olympiodorus

too, in his Life of Plato, informs us, that when that philosopher

was near his death, he dreamt that he was changed into a (wan,

and that, by flying from tree to tree, he gave much trouble to the

fowlers in catching him: and this dream, fays he, according to the

Socratic Simmias, signified that his meaning would not be appre­

hended by his interpreters. For interpreters are similar to fowlers,

by attempting to explain the conceptions of the ancients: and

Plato's meaning cannot be apprehended, because his discourses,

like those of Homer, may be understood physically, ethically,

theologically, and in short multifariously. For the souls of Homer

and Plato are said to have been produced all-harmonic. Let it

however be remembered, that though Plato's meaning was by

no means apprehended by his more ancient interpreters, yet it is'

most divinely and fully unfolded by the latter Platonists, among

whom Olympiodorus holds a very distinguished place.

Page 91. Jipolh changed him into the bird whose name he boreS\

Nothing more appears to be signisiedby this fable, than that Cyc-

nus was a man wholly given to external harmony, and who there­

fore knew nothing of philosophy, which is the greatest music, as

Plato in the Phædo beautifully observes. In consequence there­

fore of this neglect of his foul he became united with the life of

a swan, as the punishment of his guilt. But observe, that when

the rational soul is said to be changed into a brute, the meaning is,

that the foul becomes bound to the life of a brute in the fame man­

ner as otirpresiding dæmons are united with our fouls: for the hu­

man foul never becomes the animating part of a brute, any moie

than dæmons become human fouls. I only add, that the doctrine of

transmigration when viewed in this light is extremely beautiful:

and Syrianus and Proclus were, I believe, the first by whom it was

thus explained.

Page 92. There is a temple of Ceres Tbesmophorui.~\ Cere* wa»

with great propriety worshipped by the ancients as Thcsmophorut,

or

