SECOND VOLUME. 333

were so artificially placed about the temple, that by striking one

of them the sound was communicated to all the rest. According

to Menander, if a man touched them but once they would con­

tinue ringing the whole day.

But it appear! to me, that the reason why brass was dedicated

in particular to Dodonean Jupiter, is because this deity subsists

according to a terrestrial characteristic; and brass, as we learn

from Proclus, is a symbol of a resisting solid, or of earth. For

earth receives the illuminations of all the gods. "And hence

(fays Proclus in Tim. p. 282) there are a terrestrial Ceres,

Vesta, and Isis, as likewise a terrestrial Jupiter and a terrestrial

Hermes, established about the one divinity of the earth; just as a

multitude of celestial gods proceeds about the one divinity of the

heavens. For there are progrejfiont os all the celestial gods Into the

earth; and earth contains all things In an earthly manner, which

heaven comprehends celestially. Hence we speak of a terrestrial

Bacchus and a terrestrial Apollo, who bestows the all-various

streams of water with which the earth abounds, and openings

prophetic of futurity." Brass indeed was employed by the an­

cients, as we learn from the Scholiast on Theocritus (Eidyl. 2),'

in all consecrations and expiations, because they considered it as

something pure, and endued with a power of expelling pollutions.

And Eustathius upon this line in the 18th book of the Iliad,

tx itoutoio 3v{a£i hwu «J unm xabxii—

i. C

Forth from the deep with line and vocal Irajt^

observes, M that Homer makes use of the word that is

oomot, which signifies vocal, because brass is the only inanimate

substance which seems to have a voice. And the Pythagoreans

fay, that brass accords with every diviner spirit; ar.d hence a tri­

pod formed from this metal is dedicated to Apollo. Often too

when the air is perfectly tranquil, and every thing else is still,

hollow kettles will appear to be as it were shaken.".

