FIRST VOLUME. 367

the spheres of each of the elements remain on account of their

subsistence as wholes, always according to nature, the parts of

these wholes have sometimes a natural and sometimes an unna­

tural subsistence: for tints alone can \he circle of generation

unfold all the variety which it contains.

But the different periods in which these mutations happen,

are called by Plato, with great propriety, periods of fertility and

fierility: for in these periods a fertility or sterility of men, ani­

mals and plants takes place; so that in fertile periods mankind

will be both more numerous, and upon the whole superior in

mental and bodily endowments to the men of a barren period.

And a similar reasoning must be extended to animals and plants.

This is signified by Plato, though obscurely, in the following

passage from the eighth book of his Republic: yahiwi pi,

•ttuc^m £tij-«(7j{ Toy a7ra.Ha fxein Xfoito, aXha AtSWtlai. awj; o*e rjJi. ou

storey <p<Pioi( ryyno>{, «W.a xai a W/aoif £«oif <pofa, itj asojtx ^vyrtf n,

& ffufMalvr ytyvtlxi, olxv vtfijoo^rai i«-ijT)c kvi&w Trsp^&paj avvxwluo'h

Cja^uCioif fim (3faxivsrr.pt>vi, ituilut; ot ivxtltxf. i. e. "It is difficult

for a city so constituted to be moved from its establishment. But

since every thing which is generated is obnoxious to corruption,

neither can a constitution of this kind remain perpetually,but must

be dissolved. And its dissolution is this: ji fertility and'sterility

of foul and bodies not only takes place in terrene plants, but also in ter­

rene animals, when the revolutions of each of these conjoin the ambits

of their circles; -which are shorter to the shorter-lived, and con­

trary-wife to the contrary."

The so much celebrated heroic age, therefore, was the result of

one of these fertile periods, in which men, transcending the

herd of mankind both in practical and intellectual virtue,

abounded on the earth. But in consequence of that beautiful pro­

gression of things which takes place throughout the universe,

viz. in consequence of multitude every where being suspended

from a monad,or uniting cause; and multitude exquisitely allied

to

4

