SECOND VOLUME. 335

with the objects of its care. It is not at all improbable there­

fore that a nymph of the sea was connected with Selemus, who

when he died attracted to himself through intemperate desire a

vehicle perfectly humid, by which he became bound as it were

to a certain stream, and was therefore said to have been changed

into a river by Venus.

Page 233. He cut offthe genitals of his father Heaven.'} The

authors of fables invented images of divine concerns in Imitation

of Nature, who shadows forth by parts things destitute of

all parts, by temporal eternal natures, by dimensions thing!

void of quantity, by sensibles intelligibles, and so on. For

these divine men by preternatural concerns adumbrated the trans-

tendent nature of the gods; by such as ar: irrational, a power more

divine than all reason; and by things apparently base, incorporeal

beauty. Hence, in the fable alluded to in this place by Pausanias,

we must consider the genital parts as symbols ofprolific power; and

the castration of these parts, as signifying the progression of this

power into a subject order. So that the fable means, that the pro-

lisic powers of Heaven are called forth into progression by Saturn,

who is a deity of an inferior order. The utility arising from

fables of this kind, to such as properly understand them, is very

great. For they call forth our unperverted conceptions of divine

natures, give a greater perfection to the divine part of our soul,

through its sympathy with mystic concerns, heal the maladies of

our phantasy, and elevate it in conjunction with our rational part

to supernal light.

Page 238. Earthquakes."} Earthquakes, war, pestilence, fa­

mine, and other contingencies, are employed by divinity as the

lesser means of purifying parts' of the earth; the greater mean*

are deluges and conflagrations.

Page 243. Homer.'} Iliad 8. ver. 203.

Page 247. Homer.} Iliad 2. ver. 574.

Page 255. For at that time, men were guests ofthe gods.} That

