SECOND VOLUME. 339

perfect irapaffivity, Isut these dæmoniacal powers, multifariously,

divisibly, and with passivity, this opposition between gods and

dæmons was beautifully called by the ancient authors of fables,

a battle. See this interesting particular more fully unfolded

from Proclus, p. 157, &c. of my Translation of the Orphic

Hymns.

Page 322. Homer in the Odyssey.] Book x. ver. 120. The

speech of the Pliæacian king is in Odyss 7. ver. 204. We

have before observed, that the Odyssey is an allegorical poem:

and if this be the cafe, there can be no doubt, but that the

Phzacians, Cyclops, and the race of gianti mentioned in the

seventh book, are all beings superior to the human species.

Page 339. If indeed the gods are the sources of good to man-

kind.'] The gods must necessarily be the sources ofgood, because

goodness constitutes their very essence; so that every thing pro­

ceeding from them (and all things are their offspring) is na­

turally indued with the form of good. I only add, that Jupiter

is not the supreme god, though Pausanias seems to think he is,

as the reader may be convinced by perusing my Notes on the

Cratylus of Plato.

Page 342. The verses about them are in the oath of Juno."} L e.

in Iliad 14. ver. 278. The Titans are the ultimate artificers of

things; and their monad is Bacchus.

Page 351. Homer.'] Iliad 1. ver. 314.

Page 352. Homer.] Iliad 18. ver. 398, &c. In these lines, Eu«

rynome is called the daughter of Ocean. And the Scholiast on the

Cassandra of Lycophron fays that Ophion and Eurynome the

daughter of Ocean reigned among the gods called Titans, prior

to Saturn and Rhea; but that Saturn and Rhea vanquished in

wrestling Ophion and Eurynome, and having hurled them into

Tartarus invaded their kingdom. Boethius too, upon Porphyry,

(lib. 3) thus writes: "Quantum ad vetercs theologos, refertur

Jupiter ad Saturnum, Saturnus ad Cœlum, Cœlus ad antiquif-

simum Ophionem, cujus nullum est principium." That is,

Z 2 "Accord­

