FIRST VOLUME. 23S

Page 57. Ar.d that Bacchus himself appeared as their leader.^

The following Ptatonic dogma, which belongs to the greatest

arcana of ancient Wisdom, solves all that appears to be so absurd

end ridiculous to the atheistical and superficial in such-like histo­

rical relations as the present. Every deity beginning from on

high, produces his own proper series to the last of things; and

this series comprehends in itself mary essences differing from each

Other. Thus, for instance, the Sun produces Angelical, De­

moniacal, Heroical, Nymphical, Panical, and such-like powers, each

of which subsists according to a solar characteristic: and the fame

reasoning must be applied to every other divinity. All these

powers are the perpetual attendants of the Gcds, but they have

not all of them an essence wholly superior to man. For aster

essential Heroes an order of souls follows, who proximately go­

vern the affairs of men, and are dxmoniacal xxra axMl1i according

to habitude or alliance, but not essentially. Of this kind are the

Nymphs that sympathize with waters, Pans with the feet of

goats, and the like: and they d'sser from those powers that arc

essentially of a dæmoniacal characteristic, in this, that they assume

a variety of shapes (each of the others immutably preseiving one

form), are subject to various passions, and are the causes of all-

various deception to mankind. Proclus in Schol. MSS. in Cra-

tylum observes, that the Minerva which so often appeared to

Ulysses and Tclemachus was of this latter kind, on xai ir*si(

Tfayoo-xtXti;, xcu aSwaix&t ^v^ai ^n[xa<rt Troiw^fi*; p^w/Aiyai, xat

not Tu TiXipaxu i. e. *' There are Pans with the feet of

goats, and Minerval fouls assuming a variety of shapes, and prox­

imately governing mankind; such as wa3 the Minerva that ap­

peared to Ulysses and Tclemachus," The Bacchus therefore,

that appeared to the Lacedæmonians in the war mentioned by

Pausanias, must be considered as belonging to one of the orders

©f those powers we have just enumerated,

Page

