joz NOTES ON THE

self, cannot be usurped by corporeal eyes. On this account,

too, fables bordering on tragedy represent Homer as deprived

of sight, on account of his accusation of Helen. But fables, in

my opinion, intend to signify by Helen all the beauty subsisting

about generation, for which there is a perpetual battle «f fouls,

till the more intellectual, having vanquished the more irrational

forms of life, return to that place from which they originally

came. But, according to some, the period of their circulation

about sensible forms consists of ten thousand years, since a thou­

sand years produce one ambit as of one year. For nine years

therefore, i. e. for nine thousand years, fouls revolve about ge­

neration; but in the tenth having vanquished all the barbaric

tumult, they are said to have returned to their paternal habi­

tations." I only add farther, that the English reader who it

desirous of understanding the mystic meaning of the Odyssey,

may perhaps find his expectations not entirely disappointed by

perusing the notes to my translation of Porphyry on Homer'*

Cave of the Nymphs, in vol. ii. of Proclus on Euclid.

Page 236. Sacrifice/ and incantations,~\ He, whose intellectual

eye is strong enough to perceive that all things sympathize with

all, will be convinced that the magic, cultivated by the ancient

philosophers, is founded on a theory no less sublime than ration­

al and true. Such a one will consider, as Plotinus observes, the

nature of foul, as every where easy to be attracted, when a proper

subject is at hand, which is easily passive to its influence. And,

that every thing adapted to imitation is readily passive; and is like

a mirror able to seize a certain form, and reflect it to the view.

Page 240. Cere) indeed is called Chthenia."] Chthonia means

terrestrial; and Cere* was, we may suppose, thus denominated

from her profound union with Vesta, the proper divinity of the

earth. "For some (says Proclus on Euclid) call both the

Earth and Ceres, Vesta, and they fay that Rhca totally par­

ticipates her nature, and that all generative causes arc contained

in her essence."

