FIRST VOLUME. 285

the heavens: but they every where energize according to a pa­

ternal and demiurgic mode, unfolding the one fabrication of the

universe, and accommodating it to parts. But their allotment

and distribution are first according to the whole universe: and one

of these (Jupiter) produces the essences of things; but the second

(Neptune), lives and generations; and the third (Pluto) admi­

nisters the divisions of forms. And one of these establishes in the

one demiurgus of the world every thing proceeding from thence;

but the other evocates all things into progression: and the third,

converts all things to himself. But their second distribution is

into the parts of the universe. For the first of these gods governs

the inerratic sphere, and its revolution. But the second presides

over the planetary spheres, and perfects their multiform, effica­

cious, and prolific motions. And the last' of these gods governs

the sublunary region, and perfects intellectually the terrestrial

world. But in the third place, we may contemplate these three

demiurgic progressions in that which is generated. Jupiter there­

fore governs the summit of generated natures, and the sphere of

fire and air: but Neptune excites with an all-various motion the

extremely-mutable elements, and is the inspector and guardian of

ever)- humid essence subsisting in air and water : and Pluto admi­

nisters by his providence the earth, and all which it contains; and

on this account he is called Terrestrial "Jupiter.

"In the fourth place, with respect to the whole of generation,

Jupiter is allotted the most exalted places, in which, as Sorrates

observes in the Phædo, the regions detUned to blessed fouls are

contained ; because they live stparatc from gem ration, under the

government of Jove : but Neptune governs hollow places and ta­

verns, in which generation, motion and concussions subsist; on

which account he is called the carthJLaling god: nr,d Pluto go­

verns places under the earth, the various streams of water, Tar­

tarus, and the places in which fouls are judged. Hence the fouls

which have not yet proceeded into generation, but abide in the

intelligible pluce, are suit! to be of the order os Jupiter: but such

M

