First volume.- h$

the comet flowed downwards, being of a watry nature, and in

this respect corresponding to tears. The Heliades were changed

into poplar trees, because a juice distills from the poplar tree

similar to amber; and amber has a golden splendour; and gold

is dedicated to the Sun. The fable therefore obscurely signifies

that the juice of the poplar tree is produced from moisture simi­

lar to that which was produced by the dissolution of the comet.

Page 13. It is related by Herodotus] Herodotus in Terpsich."|

informs us, that it was Clisthenes the Athenian, of the family of

the Alcmæonidæ, who divided the four Athenian tribes into

ten.

Page 32. And tool care that globular vessels, (sfc."] Many of

the present day are of opinion, that'the (hips of the ancienta

•were of a very inconsiderable size, though a small degree of re­

flection must convince every unprejudiced mind, that (hips which

contained many banks of rowers, and great quantities of armed

men, must have been very large vessels. But the following ac­

count of a Ihip constructed by Ptolemy Philopater, from Plutarch

in his Life of that great commander Demetrius, abundantly proves

the truth of what I have advanced. "Before the time of De­

metrius, fays he, there had not been seen a galley with Jiftten or

Jixteen banks of oart. But after Demetrius, Ptolemy Philopater

built a prodigious galley of eighty banks of oars. It was two

hundred and eighty cubits in length. Its height from the water

to the top of the stern was forty-eight cubits. It had four

hundred mariners, and four thousand rowers: and besides all this,

there was convenient standing for nearly three thousand soldiers

to fight above the decks." It is true that Plutarch adds, this

unwitldy hulk was «nly fit for mew, and not for service; but it

assords a very convincing proof, that the ancients had concep­

tions of framing much larger (hips than any of the present time;

and it appears to me, that the sixteen-oared gallep of Demetrius,

mentioned by Plutarch, must have been at least as large as our

first rate men of war. The reader may fee a large and very en-

Vol. III. Q_ tertaining

