FIRST VOLUME. 273

And here It may not be improper to observe as a circumstance

truly admirable, that Orpheus, Homer, Plato, and the Chal- ,

dæan oracles, have unanimously characterized Jupiter by the

duad. Thus both Orpheus and Plato call hifo by a two-fold

name Jia and the former signifying that he is the cause

through which things subsist; and the latter his vivific power: for

he is the first cause of vivification. Plato too, in the Parmc-

nidet, characterizes him by the dialectic epithets.yslmfn^// and dif­

ference. Homer places two urns by his throne. And he is called

by the Chaldscan oracles in leuirnt, twice leyond. The two

faces of Janus, therefore, as he is the fame with the Jupiter of

the Greeks, admirably correspond with the dual characteristic

assigned to that divinity by the most ancient theologists.

I add, that the reader must not be disturbed on finding that

Jupiter is called a demon, at this epithet is only given to him

in the way of analogy. For, as it is the employment of essential

dæmons to attend on the gods, and proximately preside over

inferior natures; so each subordinate order of gods, from fol­

lowing the operations of its proximate superior order, and pre­

siding over subject natures, may be called analogically, dæ-

moniacul with respect to that order. It is in this fense

of the word that Plato, in the Timæus, calls the sublunary

gods dtmnns in one place, aud in anothergods of gnds; and that

in the Banquet, he calls Love a mighty dæmon, and in the Phce-

drus a god. But not only gods were called dæmons by ancient

theologists, but intellects, foul;;, dæmons, and even men were

called gods by them. Each, however, was thus denominated in

a different respect. For inlelleSs were called gods according to

union ; fouls, according to participation i demons, according to cen­

tal}; and men, according to similitude; while, in the mean time,

such as are properly gods were assigned this appellation essentially.

The observation of these diltiiittions will enable the philosophic

reader to solve many apparent inconsistencies in the writings of

ancient theologists, and convince him that the ancients believed

Vol. III. T ia

