»4« NOTES ON THE

Moon therefore, as well as many other divinities, is celebrated

by the Orphic theologists as both male and female, perhaps Pan

is the masculine pow er of the moon: and this opinion is strength­

ened by the following curious passage from Stephanus deUrbibus,

in the article Panos. "There is (fays he) a great statue of

Pan, with its private parts raised in a straight direction to the

length of seven singers. The right hand of the statue holds

whips elevated towards the moon, of which luminary they fay

Pan is an image." c$-» °t w itov ayaXjua piyx, efiiaxot <x*< t«

ai^oioy »; iwla $ax\v7.ois. iTalMI Tl /xafi)a; TV ci^tx fftXtjkii r,; niu>.tt

Qcuw nta.i to» Uam. Let the reader, however, carefully remem­

ber that the Pan seen by the Lacedæmonian messenger was a

dsemoniacal power, and not the divinity of this name.

Page 82. Æschylus was the first that represented these divinitiet

with snakes in their hair.~] Those who are of opinion that the Or­

phic hymns are spurious compositions, will doubtless imagine

that their opinion is indisputably confirmed by the prtsent pas­

sage: for the furies in these hymns* are called opKKrXoxajKoi, or

fnaly-haired; and consequently it may be said, they must have

been written posterior to the time of Æschylus, if what Pausa-

nias asserts be true. It must, however, be remembered, that Æs­

chylus was accused of inserting in his tragedies things belonging

to the mysteriesf; and I (hall produce some very strong argu­

ments in the course of these notes, to prove that the Orphic

hymns which have come down to us, are the very hymns which

were used in the Eleusinian mysteries. If this be the cafe, either

Pausanias is mistaken in what he asserts of Æschylus iq this

place; or, which appears to me to be more probable, being a man

reb'gioufly fearful of disclosing any particulars belonging to the

mysteries, he means that no one prior to Æschylus openly repre­

sented the Furies with snakes in their hair; or, in other words,

that Æschylus was the first prophane writer (as a Christian would

• Vid. hym. 69.

f Vid. Fabric. Bibljoth. torn. I. p. 606,

express

