25+ NOTES ON THE

ot the legislator: for this goddess, as we are informed by SalluS,

De Diis et Mundo, according to her mundane distribution is the

divinity of the planet Saturn: Saturn, according to Plato in the

Cratylus, is pure intelleS; and law, according to the fame great

philosopher in his Laws, is »<w han/xn, a dijlribution of intelleS.

Page 92. The Jirjl fruits of the Hyperboreans are fent.~\ It ap­

pears from the Scholiast on Pindar, that the Greeks called the

Tliracians Boreans: there is therefore (fays Larclur) great pro­

bability, that they called the people beyond these Hyperboreans.

Callimachus, in his hymn to Delos, mentions these people in

the following lines, as translated by Dr. Dodd:

——— states flowing from each clime

Of the well-peopled globe, from east to west,

From Arctic and Antarctic pole—where Heav'n,

The virtue of the habitants rewards

With length of days: these to the Delian god

Begin the grand procession; and in hand

The holy sheaves and mystic offerings bear.

Page 92. Commit them to the Arima/pi.^ The Arimafpi were

Hyperborean Cyclopians, who dwelt about the Scythian river

Arimafpus, which is full of golden sands.

Page 93. Apollo Dionysv.hlus.~\ Perhaps instead of hcrjaihlo;

it should be JbiwJI?;, Dionyfoter or the saviour of Bacchus. My

reasons for supposing that this alteration is requisite, are de­

rived from the following curious and beautiful passage, from the

MS. Commentary of Olympiodonis on the Phacdo of Plato:

"In order," fays he, "to the soul's descent, it is necessary that

she should first establish an animating image of herself in the

body; and in the second place, that she should sympathize with

the image, according to a similitude of form: for every form

passes into a sameness with itself, through naturally verging to

itself. In the third place, being situated in a divisible nature,

it is necessary that she should be lacerated and scattered together

with such a nature, and that she should fall into an ultimate

distri­

