234 NOTES ON THE

tinually suspended from its proper principle, pervades through

every order. But the golden throne which Vulcan fends to

Juno, is that vehicle depending on the goddess, and from illu­

minating which she has a mundane establishment: and the un-

apparent bonds which it contains are those -vital connectives by

which foul becomes united with body. These bonds are said t»

be fixed in the throne by Vulcan, because this deity is superior

to Juno, considered according to her mundane establishment. All

the gods except Bacchus were unable to persuade Vulcan to free

Juno from her bonds; because Bacchus, or the mundane intellect,

is the monad or proximately exempt producing cause of the

ultimate progressions of all the gods; and hence Vulcan, consi­

dered according to his last procession, is suspended from Bacchus,

by whom at the fame time he is converted on high. Hence

Bacchus is said to have led him back to heaven: but it is added,

by means of intoxication; i. e. by deific intelligence, through

which every inferior deity is converted to deities of a superior

characteristic, and all the gods become absorbed in the ineffable

principle of all things. Lastly, by Vulcan freeing Juno from her

bonds, nothing more is meant than, that this goddess according

to her mundane establishment receives a power from Vulcan,

through which while (he illuminates with a divine light her de­

pending vehicle, flic is at the fame time exempt from all inclination

and passive affection towards the subject of her illuminations: and

the fame reasoning must be applied to every mundane divinity.

Page 56. Gave that oracle concerning lhe lladtscr.~\ This

oracle is preserved by Plutarch in his life of Theseus, and is thus,

except in the last line, translated by Langhorn:

From royal stems thy honour, Theseus, springs,

By Jove bclov'd, the sire supreme of kings.

See rising towns, fee wide-extended states,

On thee dependent, alk their future, fates!

Hence, hence with fear' Thy f.ivoui'd bark lhall ride,

Safe, like a bladder, »'cr the foamy tide.

Page

