SECOND VOLUME. %it

w hole period receiving , a triple division, into a life under the

dominion of Jupiter, which is prior to generation, into a life

under the dominion of Neptune, and which is in generation,

Pluto, who is characterized according to intellect, with great

propriety converts ends to beginnings, forming a circle without

a beginning or an end, not only in fouls, but in bodies. Thus

for instance, he eternally evolves the circulations of the stars, the

motions of things in generation, and the like. But some erro足

neously analyse the name of Pluto into wealth from the earth,

through fruits and metals; and of Aides*, into the obscure, dark,

and terrible. These are now censured by Socrates, who assigns

the fame meaning to these two names; referring Pluto, as intel足

lect, to the tvealth of prudence, and Aides to an intellect which

knows all things. For this god is a sophists, who purifies fouls

after death, and frees them from generation. For Aides, or, tht

obscure, is not, as some erroneoufly interpret it, evil; since neither

is death an evil, though Aides appears to some to be full of per足

turbation. But every thing intelligible is obscure; and in this

fense Aides is better than every visible nature. The lovers of

body however, who viciously refer the passions of the animated

part to themselves, consider death as something terrible; and as

the cause of corruption: but in reality it i9 much better for a man

to die, and live in Hades according to nature, than to live with

body contrary to nature, and prevented from energizing intel足

lectually. Hence, it is necessary to strip ourselves of the flesti J

with which we are invested, as Ulysses did of his torn garments,

and not, together with the indigence of body, clothe ourselves

with that which resembles the vestment of a mendicant. "For

(as the Oracle fays) things divine cannot be obtained by those whose

intellectual eye is direScd to body j but those only can arrive at the

* One of Pluto's names.

f The reader must be careful to consider the word Sophist in this place

in its primary sense, viz. one wise and learned.

X i. e. We must purify ourselves from a tendency to body.

Vol. III. Y fos.

