CHAP. 49. ROMAN HISTORY. -. 383

the Agrarian law, he added, that he would also bring in

a bill, for sending a colony to Volfe, because that city

and its pertinents was in justice the property of those

who had conquered it by their arms: " Wo be to my

"soldiers indeed, says he, if they will not be quiet."

An expression, which was not mpre shocking to the as­

sembly who heard it, than it was afterwards to the se­

nators.

The-tribune Sextius, a man who neither wanted spi­

rit nor eloquence, having found in the opposition a proud

heart and a petulant tongue, whom he could provoke and

enrage, till he was driven to such expressions as would

not only render himself odious, but the cause he espous­

ed, and the order to which he belonged, attacked Post-

humius more frequently, and with greater warmth than

any other of the military tribunes. Therefore, immedi­

ately upon the harsh and brutal expression, he cried out,

'Do you hear, Romans, how Posthumius threatens his

* soldiers, as if they were his slaves? However, when  
'the first offices of the state are to fie disposed of, this

* savage will be thought more worthy of them in your  
'judgment, than those who provide you with cities and

* lands, and send you into colonies? who procure you  
'safe retreats for your old age; and for your interest,

* enter the list with such cruel and haughty antagonists.  
'After this you may wonder, if you please, why so few

'appear as champions lor the defence of your rights.

'What have they to expect from you ?—Is it these hon-

'ours which you chuse rather to confer on your adver-

'saries than your defenders/1 The expressions you just

'now heard, drew groans from you. But what then,

'Were you just now to go to an election, you would

• prefer this man, who threatens you with wo, to those

• who are. for procuring you lands, dwellings, and es-

• tablishments.' •'

CHAP. L.

Poslhwnius stoned to death by Ms own army.

\. HE report of this injurious expression having spread

in thecamp, it occasioned much greater indignation there.

