366 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOKIV.

their own army. This happened accordingly. The ca­

valry were blocked up, and found it.quite impracticable

to return the way they had advanced: the enemy hav-

ing closed, and in that part of the line, standing in very

close array.

The consul and Roman legions having lost sight of

the battalion which was the life and soul of their army,

and fearing those generous troops would be blocked up

and overpowered by the enemy, outbraved every dan­

ger for their relief. The Volsci making a double froat,

on the one side, sustained the charge of the consul and

his legions; and on the other pressed hard upon Tem-

panius and his cavalry, who having often attempted to

break through the enemy's ranks to join the main body

of their army, without effect, at last took possession of an

eminence, where throwing themselves into a ring, they

defended themselves with such bravery as cost the Volsci

dear. Only the night put an end to the battle.

The consul, on his part, kept the enemy sufficiently

employed, while any light remained. Night drew off

both sides, equally uncertain-which was victorious.

Their ignorance, in this respect, struck such a panic on

both, that leaving their wounded and a great part of

their baggage behind, both concluding themselves de­

feated, made the best of their way to the mountains

which lay nearest them. The eminence, however, con­

tinued to be invested till after midnight, when the be­

siegers being informed, that their camp was abandoned,

and not doubting. but the army had been also defeated,

went off in a fright, under cover of the darkness, the best

way they could.

Tempanius fearing an ambuscade, kept his post till

day-light; when he went out with a few of his followers

to reconnoitre the enemy, and found upon inquiry at

some of the wounded enemy, that the Volsci had aban­

doned their camp. Then with pleasure calling down all

his soldiers from the hill, he entered the Roman camp,

and there found the like solitude and total desertion as in

the enemy's. Therefore, as he was entirely ignorant of

the consul's rout, and fearing a return of the Volsci up-

en the first discovery of their error, be took up as many

