132 TITUS LIVIUS\ BOOK II.

cue of that family, they would certainly have paid the

compliment to his father Valerius, who had been consul,

and given proofs of his merit.

When the dictator was first created at Rome, and the

people saw the axes carried before him, they were«truck

with prodigious -awe, and became very submissive and

obedient. For it was not now, as under the consular

government, where, the power being equal, they might

have influence on one of them; or, at any rate, appeal

to the people. Here there was no alternative, but ab­

solute submission and obedience. The Sabines too, were

not without their fears, when they heard that a dictator

was created at Rome, more especially being persuaded,

that tney were the object against whom he was pointed-

.

Wherefore they sent ambassadors to sue for peace, re­

questing of the dictator and senate, that they would par­

don the folly of the youth. They received for answer,

that they could easily forgive the folly of the young men.

but the petulance of the oldi who were constantly hatch­

ing one war after another, coutd not so easily be over­

looked. They continued however, their negotiations

about a peace, which would at last have been conclud­

ed, had the Sabines thought propeV to comply with a

demand of reimbursing the Romans in the expence they

had been at in their preparations for war. War was

accordingly proclaimed, but a truce privately concluded

kept all quiet for that year.

CHAP. XIX.

War with the Latins.

J. HE consuls were Servtus Sulpitius, and Manius Tul-

lus; but during their administration, nothing remarkable

happened. They were succeeded by T. jEbutius, and

C. Veturius. During their consulship, Fidenae was be­

sieged, Crustumeria taken; and from the Latins, Prae-

neste revolted to the Romans. Upon this, the war

with the Latins, which had been gathering for some

years, immediately broke out. The dictator, A. Post-

humius, and his general of the horse, marching at the

head of a numerous army of horse and foot to the lake

