60 TITUS LIVIUS' - . BOOK I.

ed ever after, to encourage others to build there also.

He admitted among the patricians, the principal families

of Alba, such as the Julii, Servilii, Quintii, Geganii, Cu-

riatii, and Claelii, that the patrician order might be in­

creased in proportion: and upon this accession to the

order, he built a temple for a senate-house, which our

fathers knew by the name of Hostilia. And that every

order might derive some additional strength from the ac­

cession of the Albans, he formed from among that peo­

ple, ten centuries of knights. With them also he re­

cruited the old, and formed new legions.

Being now confident of his strength, he declares war

against the Sabines, a nation, at that time, next the

Etrurians, the most populous and powerful of all their

neighbours. Encroachments had been made, and satis­

faction demanded by both parties, to no purpose. Tul-

lus complained, that some Roman merchants had been

seized at a public market, near the temple of Feronia:

the Sabines, that some of their people were detained at

Rome, although they had fled for protection to the

asylum.

From these injuries, the war is said to have originated.

The Sabines, being well aware, that their strength had

suffered a considerable diminution, in the party incor­

porated by Tatius, with Rome; and that the Roman

power had been considerably increased by the accession

of Alba, thought proper to look about for foreign aid.

Etruria lay next them ; and of jthat country the Vejentes

were their nearest neighbours. From thence they drew

volunteers, who, when the ashes of former wars were

raked up in their minds, were easily prevailed on to re­

volt. Vagrants too among the poorer sort, enlisted in

their service for pay; but by public authority, they had

no assistance: for the Vejentes strictly observed the trea­

ty made with Romulus; and it is not surprizing that they

were joined by none of the other powers.

Both parties having made all possible preparations,

and nothing remaining now, but to strike the first blow,

Tullus begins to march his army into their country. A

bloody actio\} ensued, near the malefactor's forest, ia

which the Roman army proved far superior not only in

the weight of their infajUry, but also by the late aug­

