2(38 BOOK III. TITUS LIVIUS'

brutal lust. Go on to scourge and tyrannize over our'

persons; but let chastity and innocence escape your

violence. Should any violence be offered to ibis

young lady, in behalf of my bride, I will implore the-

assistance of the Romans here assembled; Virginius

will implore the aid of his fellow soldiers, for his only

daughter: in short, we will beg assistance from every

body, and implore both gods and men. You shall

never put this sentence in execution, till I am num足

bered among the dead. Wherefore, let me intreat

you, Appius, to consider well what you do, and to

weigh the consequences. When Virginius comes, he

will see what is the most proper step to be taken, with

respect to his daughter. Let him only be told, with

a certification, that if he yields to this scoundrel's

claim, Ihave no more to say to his daughter. With

respect to myself, as long as I have life, I will retain

the courage and constancy with which a generous

passion for my bride's liberty and honour, justly in足

spire me."

CHAP. XLVJ.

Appius' decree.

A HE whole multitude were in great emotion, and ready

to proceed to the utmost extremities. The lictors came

round Icilius; but they proceeded only to threat-). Then

Appius spoke to this effect: "The spirit which Icilius dis-

"covers upon this occasion, is not exerted in defence

"of Virginia, but naturally turbulent, and full of the

"pride and violence of the tribune, he makes that a

"pretext for exciting a tumult; but, for the present, I

"am resolved to disappoint him. At the same time, I

would have him to know, that it is not on account of his

insolence, but of the absence of Virginius, and a ten足

der regard to the name of father and to liberty, that I

will defer judgment, and not put my decree in force

for this day. I will prevail upon Claudius to give up

somewhat of his right, in permitting the girl to remain

in liberty till next day: But should Virginius fail to

'appear to-morrow, I certify to Icilius, and all such se足

