20* TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK II

"That they had it in commission from Q. Fabius, the

•• consul, to inform them, that he once carried peace

• ' from the ^Equi to Rome, and that from Rome, he was

"now carrying war to the jEqui, the same right-hand

"being armed against them, which before he had

given them in token of peace. By whose perjury

and perfidious conduct, this reverse had happened,

the gods were the witnesses now, and ere long would

be the avengers. For his own part, however, with­

out descending to particular.-, he would even at this

moment, rather wish they would, by a voluntary

submission, express a conviction of their error, than

oblige him to subject them to all the calamities of

war. Were they only to repent, they should be re­

ceived into the protection of that clemency, they

"had formerly experienced: but, if they exulteS in

"their perjury, they would do well to remember they

"had the wrath of the gods, rather than the arms of

"an enemy to contend with."

So far was this embassy from influencing the /E<jui,

that the deputies were in danger of being insulted, and

an army was sent to the Algidus,* to oppose the pro­

gress of the Romans.

The moment advices of these transactions were trans­

mitted to Rome, the other consul left the city, roused

rather by indignation, than any fear of danger. Thus

two consular armies approached the enemy, drawn up

in form, determined to make an immediate attack. But

as it happened that the day was far spent, one of the

enemy's advanced guard, cried out; " Romans, this is

"not fighting, but an empty parade; vou draw up in

"battalia, for the approach of night. More sun will

"be necessary to render the action before us decisive.

"To-morrow, the moment light appears, return to the

"field, and you shall have enough of fighting, I will

"be bound for it."

Stung with this reproachful commentary, the Roman

soldiers were led back to the camp, to wait till next

morning; and -the hours of the night seemed to pass

heavity on, which kept them from measuring swords

with the enemy. They refreshed themselves with vie-

* A bill twelve miles from Rome,

