CHAP. 17. ROMAN HISTORY. 39

from the senators that stood next him; yet struck as it

Were, with awe, for the loss of their father, a mournful

silence for some time prevailed. Then a few of them

leading the way, the rest in one voice supported them,

ordering Romulus, their king, and founder of their city,

the son of a god, to be addressed as a god. With earnest

prayers they invoke his favour and gracious protection

on all occasions, as they had the honour to be his own

descendants.

I know it has been alledged, that he was torn in pieces

by the senators; but that report was only retailed in

whispers, and gained little credit. The present conster­

nation, joined to the veneration they had for their king,

stamped a currency on the first account of the matter,

which was still more confirmed by the address of a single

witness. One Proculus Julius, whilst the city was affect­

ed for the loss of their king, and far from being satisfied

with the fathers, enters the assembly, with a prodigious

air of gravity, as coming to deliver a message of singular

importance. "Romulus," says he, " O Romans, the

father of this city, suddenly descending from his ce­

lestial mansion, appeared to me early this morning.

Whilst filled with sacred horror and reverential awe,

i stood beseeching his permission to look- upon him;

Go, says he, tell the Romans, it is the will of the gods,

that my Rome shall be the capital of the universe.

Let them therefore cultivate the art of war: For they

"must know, and they may hand it down to posterity,

"that no power on earth shall be able to withstand the

"Roman arms."—When he had thus spokeu, he ascend-

~ed into heaven. The avidity with which this story was

received, and the joy diffused through all ranks, from a

belief of the king's immortality, are equally inconceivable.

CHAJ'. .XVII.

i f

The Fathers and people agree to choose a King. ..

J.N the mean time, ambition and plotting about the sue-

cession to the throne, entirely engrossed the fathers.

They did not form parties for supporting the claim of any

