TO THE PUBLIC.

.l O reconcile Youth, in the early stages of their ap­

plication to the study of the CLASSICS, to facilitate and

promote their progress, and to enlarge their ideas in the

English, as well as Latin phraseology, the use of literal

translations hath been, of late years, most successfully

adopted. The advantages arising from translations, con­

structed on a more liberal plan, at a more advanced

period,. after etymology, inflexion, construction, accent,

and a sufficient stock of words have been acquired, will

be equally considerable. To lay a foundation for good

taste, and true criticism, is a point, of which we must

never lose sight, in classical studies. The observations

of a good teacher, in the course of his prescriptions, will

be very important; but the practical art of arranging,

classing, and disposing a liberal stock of phrases, vvitl,

taste and judgment, will receive a surprising improve­

ment from imitation.

By comparing the original with an elegant translation,

and that translation again with the original, the student's

style will be insensibly elevated, and he will quickly ac­

quire a facility and readiness of expression in both lan­

guages, without which, all the time and labour spent up­

on study, would be in a great measure lost. But to one

whose only assistant is his dictionary, a good translation

must be still more necessary. The drudgery of scram­

bling the sense of an author out of a dictionary, is not

only intolerably tedious, but requires an extraordinary

degree of penetration to succeed to any purpose: a good

translation, properly used, will render the study easy, ex­

peditious, and effectual.

It was with this view that I employed some of my lei­

sure hours in translating the first jive books of Liny, J.o

whose writings I have always been mightily attached,

on account of the beauty and dignity of his style, and his

luminous, intelligible, and agreeable manner. In trans­

lating, I have endeavoured to be spirited and- faithful,

equally avoiding the closeness of a literal version, iu­

