384 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK IV.

'How!" cried the soldiers, ' shall this monopolist, who

< cheated us of our -spoils, dare to threaten us also?'

Wherefore, as these reflections were made openly, the

Qosestor Sextius, to quell (lie sedition, believed it neces­

sary to employ the same violent methods as had given

occasion for them, and sent a lictor to one of the soldiers,

whom he heard exclaiming: but this only served to in­

crease the tumult; and the Qusestor being struck with a

stoue, was obliged to retire out of the crowd ; the person

who hail done it insulting him at the same time, by cal­

ling out, That the Quaxtor had got no more than what the

general had threatened to give the soldiers. When Post-

huraius himself was called to quell the mutiny, he exas­

perated the troops more than ever by the strictness of his

enquiries, and the cruelty of his punishments. At last,

wlien lie set no bounds to his fury, the cries of those

whom he had condemned to be drowned under a hurdle,

having drawn together a number of the soldiers, and

raised a tumult, he burst like a fury from his tribunal,

and thrust among the crowd, who were endeavouring to

prevent the executing of his sentence. The lictors and

centurions, in clearing the way, dealt about them too

roughly among the crowd, which exasperated them to

that extraordinary degree, that the military tribune was

stoned to death by his own army.

When thenews of this tragical event reached the city,

and the military tribunes, with the concurrence of the

senate, decreed that a ^recognition should he taken,

relative to the murder of their colleague, the tribunes of

the people interposed. This contest depended upon an­

other. The conscript fathers were in the utmost concern,

lest the people, for fear of the intended inquiry, should,

in the heat of their passion, create military tribunes out

of their own order; for which reason they exerted them­

selves to the utmost to get consuls elected. But the tri­

bunes of the people would suffer no act to be passed by

tlie senate, nor a comitia- to be held for the election of

consuls, ?o that the Republic fell into an iuter-regnum.

The fathers afterwards prevailed.

