CHAP. 51. ROMAN HISTORY. 89

extorted by parricide, the Latins, being a distinct peo­

ple, were under no obligation to follow the example.

But if the Romans now repent of what they have done,

being butchered, exiled, and robbed, one after another,

by that rapacious wretch, can the Latins find in Tar-

quin, a less cruel and covetous master? If they will

take my advice, they will immediately return home,

"and mind the assembly day no more than he that ap-

"pointed it."

Whilst this seditious and enterprising man, who had

by his address amassed a great fortune at home, was

proceeding in invectives against Tarquin, he made his

appearance in the assembly, which put an end to the

harangue. Every one turned about to pay his compli­

ments to Tarquin, who, when silence was made, being

put in mind by some that sat next him, that he ought to

make an apology for coming so late; he answered, " That

"he had been engaged making up a difference between

"a father and a son; and that his concern to see them

"reconciled, had detained him so long." It is said, Tur-

nus did not suffer this excuse to pass uncensured; for he

told him, "That no process on earth could be shorter

"than between a father and son, nor required a briefer

"sentence ;• if the son would not obey the father, he

"would be considered as a worthless wretch."

'CHAP. LI.

Tarquin conspires against Turnus.

JL HE Arician, having thus cavalierly rated the R"p--

man king, left the council; which sinking deeper in the

stomach of Tarquin, than he choosed to express, he im­

mediately plots against the life of Turnus, with a view,

in his fate; to impress the minds of the Latms with the

same ideas of terror 6y. which he had over-awed the

minds of his own subjects. And because he had no

authority to put him to death onenly, he procured his

destruction/. though innocent, by a fictitious impeach­

ment.

By means of some Aricians, of an opposite party, he-

prevailed on Turnus's slave, for a sum of money, to

