CHAP. 35. ROMAN HISTORY. 157

"our mouths, unless we give up our Tribunes tied hand

•" and foot to Coriolanus,—unless he be allowed to

"wreak his vengeance on the commons of Rome*

"Death, or slavery, is the only choice this new execu-

"tioner has left us."

The mob would have fallen upon him as he left the

house, had not the tribunes very seasonably appointed

him a day to take his trial.

Here their rage subsided, because every one saw him­

self, the judge, and the disposer of the life or death of

his adversary. Marcius at first, heard the threats of the

tribunes with contempt, affirming, That their office was .

instituted for protection, not punishment, and that they

were the tribunes of the commons, not of the fathers.

But so outrageous were the people, that the fathers were

glad-to purchase their peace at the expence of one of

their order. They did all, however, in their power to

stem the torrent of public odium, and strained every

nerve, each in his private, as well as public capacity, to

save him. The first expedient they put in practice, was

to dispose his clients so judiciously as to deter the peo­

ple, one by one, from frequenting their meetings and

cabals. Then all the senate went in procession, as if the

whole body had been impeached, and with the most

pressing instances, begged the people, fltat if they would

not acquit Marcius, for the sake of his innocence, they

wou.ld, at their intercession, spare one citizen, one sena­

tor, even should he be found guilty.

He did not appear on the day of his trial, which in­

flamed them still the more. He was • therefore, con­

demned in his absence; in consequence of which, he re­

tired amongst the Volsci, even then breathing nothing

but revenge, and carrying with him eve^y hostile inten­

tion against his country. The Volsci received him with

every mark of respect, and their civilities daily increas­

ed, in proportion as his resentment against his country

was more strongly marked; for bitter complaints, suc­

ceeded by terrible threats, were often observed to drop

from him.

He lived with Attius Tullius, at that time, the most

respectable nobleman of all the Volsci, and one who had

always been an enemy to the Romans. As the one was

actuated by a hatred of an old standing, and the other.

.H

