«3S TITUS LIVIUS* BOOK III.

manifest perjury in his evidence against Cicso. For,

from many concurring testimonies, it was evident that

Volscius's brother, from the time he had been confmed to

his bed, had never left it, far less been seen abroad;

and after he had languished for several months under

the disease, it had at last carried him off. Neither was.

Cseso at Rome, the time condescended on in the indict­

ment; many of his camp companions affirming, that he

had been all that time attending his colours, without

ever leaving them; the truth of which was vouched by

many.

But he durst not venture to stand this trial; for, from

so many concurrmg circumstance?, the condemnation of

Voiscius was no more doubted, than Cseso's upon his

single testimony. The tribunes, however, put off' the

trial, refusing to sutler the Quaestors to hold the Comitia

for that purpose, till they were first assembled for enact­

ing the law. Consequently both these points were de­

ferred till the return of the consuls.

When the consuls entered the city in triumph with,

their victorious army, as no mention was made of the.

law, it was generally- believed that the tribunes were over­

awed by their presence. But, as the year was near an

end, anxious to. get themselves elected for the fourth

time, they had dropt all disputes about the law, to leave

themselves at liberty to canvass for next election. And

although the consuls exerted themselves as strenuously to

oppose the re-election of the sau <• tribunes, as if a bill

had been preferred to curtail their authority, yet in the

contest the tribunes prevailed.

This year the /Equi sued for peace, which was grant­

ed them; and the census, which had been begun last

year, was finished in this. This was the tenth lustration

winch had been made since the building of the city.

One hundred and thirty-two thousand four hundred and

nine citizens were enrolled-. The consuls, by their con­

duct this year, both in peace and war, gained immortal

honour; for they made peace with all their neighbours;

and the state, though the demon of discord was not to­

tally expelled, was not so much embroiled as in ovhei

consulships.

