44 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK I.

CHAP. XX.

Nuata teaches religious rites.

AN the next place, he set about the creation of priests*.

although many of these offices he performed tUperson,

particularly in the department of priest of Jupiter. But

as in a military state, he foresaw there would be more

kings of the disposition of Romulus, than of Numa, who

would head their armies in person; that the religious

duties incumbent on the king might not suffer, in the

mean time, he instituted a priest who should constantly

attend on the service of Jupiter, and distinguished him

ty a rich robe and royal curule chair. To him he added

two other priests, one for Mars, and another for Romu-

Jus. He likewise made an election of vestal virgins, an

institution of Alban extraction, with which the founder

of the city was materially connected. To these he ap­

pointed salaries out of the treasury, because their atten­

dance in the temple admitted of no avocation. Their

virginity, which was perpetual, and ceremonies attend­

ing their ordination, rendered their order venerable a'nd

sacred.

He likewise appointed twelve Salii,* for Mars Gradi-

vus,f whose badge of distinction"~was an embroidered

coat, and a breast-plate of brass to be wore above it.

The business of this order was to carry the celestial arms,

called Ancilia,\ and to walk through the streets singing

in concert, and dancing in the comic and serious stile.

Then from the Patrician order he chose Numa Marcius,

the son of Marcus, for hjghjgriest, to whom he delivered

a system of religious'ceremonies in manuscript, signed

and sealed, ascertaining the sacrifices, the days when,

and temples where they should be offered ; and the funds

n;hence money to defray the expence should be drawn.

AH other things, public and private, respecting the

worship of the gods, he submitttd to the judgment of

the high priest; that the people might never be at a loss

* From SaKus, the leader of a band of musicians, brought by  
Evander.

f From Gradient, denoting the regular inarch to an attack.

I From'

