Chap. 42. ROMAN HISTORY. 463

given time to^he fury with which they were agitated iii

the late action, to subside, and as they had met with little

or no resistance from the Romans, nor even now put to

the necessity of an assault to take the city, entered it next

~day, without any signs of violent passion and resentment,

by the gate Collina, moving on to the forum, and cast-;

ing their eyes on all sides, to the temples of the gods,'

and the citadel, where alone they could observe the

least appearance of resistance. Then posting a small

guard, to prevent any sally from the citadel or capitol,

when they might be dispersed through the city, they

went about in plundering parties, arid finding the streets

quite empty, and not meeting a single soul, they rushed

in bodies into the adjoining houses, whilst others flew to

the most remote, imagining they had never been touch­

ed, and consequently full of booty. Struck with terror

at the general 4eso'at'on» tney returned in a body to

the forum, and the adjoining places, fearing they might,

when dispersed, fall into some ambuscade. Here find­

ing the houses of the Plebeians shut, but the halls of the

nobility open, they hesitated more upon entering the last

than the first, keeping at an awful distance from those

venerable sages, sitting in the porches of their houses

in dress and attitude appearing with an air of greatness

above human, and in the awful majesty of their looks,

and gravity of their deportment, perfectly resembling

the gods. When they had stood some time gazing as

at so many statues, one of these ancients, M. Papirius

is said to have provoked a Gaul, by breaking his head

with a smart blow of his ivory truncheon, for using the

freedom of stroking his beard, which was then permit­

ted to grow to a great length. He was the first victim,-

and the rest were all killed where they sat. The Gauls,

after thi? massacre, gave no quarter; and having cleared'

the bouses of their contents, immediately --set them on

fire.

• CHAP. XLII.

Rome set on fire. Melancholy scene. ** •

X HE first day, the devastation- among the houses by

the lire, was not so general as might have been expected

