CHAP. 59. ROMAN HISTORY. . 103

Brutus, marched in arms to Rome. After they had en­

tered the city, the appearance of a body in arms, spread

terror and confusion, wherever it went; but when the

principal men of the state were observed to be at the

head of it, they readily concluded, whatever it might be,

it had been no rash nor unadvised undertaking. Nor

did this barbarous action occasion less commotion at

Rome, than it had done at Collatia. From all quarters

they ran into the Forum; and the moment they were

convened, they were summoned by the public crier, to

attend the tribune of the celeres, with which office,

Brutus happened to be invested at that time. Then he

harangued the people, but with a force and energy very

dirferent from that degree of wisdom and capacity, of

which the character be assumed had been expressive, to

that day. Then be inveighed against the violence and

brutal passion ofSextus Tarquinius, the rape of Lucretia,

so infamous, that he blushed to mentiou it;—her unfor­

tunate end.—The loss to Triclpitinus of his daughter,

the cause of whose death, was more afflicting and dis­

tressing than her death itself.—To these, he added the

king's haughtiness;—4he miseries and servile labours of

the people, oppressed with ditching and draining common

sewers; and that the Romans, conquerors of all the na­

tions around them, of soldiers were now become common

mechanics and hewers of stone. He mentioned the in­

human murder of their king Servius Tultius, and his ac­

cursed daughter riding in triumph over the body of her

expiring father: he invoked the gods, the avengers of

parents.

By a lively representation of these horrid scenes, and

others, I fancy, still more glaring, dictated by the ca­

lamity of the times, which a modern historian cannot

easily collect, or narrate, he had the address to engage

the people, already enraged at the Tarquins, to abolish.

the regal authority, and by their suffrages to confirm a

decree of the senate, condemning Tarquin, his wife,

and all his posterity, to perpetual banishment. Having

levied, and armed a body of youth, who voluntarily listed

themselves, he put himself at their head, and marched to

the camp of Ardea, to persuade the army to join in the

rebellion against the king. He left the government of

