112 TITUS LIVIUS' . BOOK II.

ed it unlawful to use iti after it was reaped, the people

flocked in numbers to carry it away with the straw in

baskets, and then threw it into the Tiber; the waters of

which being low, as it is usual in the heat of summer,

the heaps of corn sticking in the shallows, were covered

with mud: by these, and other materials carried thither

by the stream, an island rose by degrees^ which by the

addition of banks as I imagine, and the assistance of art,

was so raised and consolidated, that temples and porti­

coes were built upon it.

After the tyrant's effects were plundered, the traitors

were condemned and executed. What rendered their

punishment particularly remarkable was, that Brutus's

office, as consul, laid him under. the necessity of punish­

ing his own children: and the man who ought to have

been removed from beholding such a melancholy spec­

tacle, fortune obliged to stand by and see the punish­

ment inflicted. Young men of the first quality stood

tied to a stake; but from all the criminals, as from per­

sons unknown, the consul's sons drew the eyes 'of the

spectators, pitying them not more on account of the

severity of their punishment, than the horrid crime for

which they suffered; in the very year of their deliver­

ance from slavery, that they should have conspired to

betray into the hands of Tarquin, who had been a

haughty tyrant at Rome, and now an hostile exile, their

country after it was freed from his despotic sway, their

father too, its deliverer, the consulate which originated

in the family of the Junii; the fathers, the people, and

whatever belonged to the gods, or the citizens of Rome.

The consuls seated themselves in the tribunal; and the

lictors being dispatched to inflict the punishment, stript

them naked, whipt them with rods, and struck off their

heads. All the time, the eyes of the spectators were

fixed upon Brutus, to observe his deportment as a father

and a patriot:—in love for his country, he stood distin­

guished during all the tragical scene.

After the execution, to set an example of rewarding,

as well as punishing, the slave who made the discovery,

got a sum of money out of the treasury, his liberty, and

the freedom of the city. He was the first, according to

tradition, that was made free by the Rod Vindicta,

