CHAP. 22. ROMAN HISTORY. 4T

Caius Cluilius presided then at Alba. To demand re­

stitution, ambassadors were sent much about the same

time, from bcjth courts.

The Romans were strictly enjoined by Tullus, not to

lose a moment in executing their commission, because

being convinced they would mce* with a retusal, he

would thereby be furnished with a plausible pretence for

declaring war. The Alban ambassadors were not so

alert, they were received by Tuilus with much civility

and respect, and enjoyed themselves with him in all the

pleasures ot social festivity; the Romans, in the mean

time, havingfirst demanded restitution, and that bemg re­

fused them, declared war within thirty days, and returned

with the news to Tullus. Then the Alban ambassadors

were admitted to an audience, when the design of their

embassy was inquired into. Being ignorant of all that

had past, they began with long apologies, " That it was

"with the utmost reluctance they should be obliged

"to express themselves in any manner disagrreable to

"Tullus, and that nothing could have laid them under

"that necessity, but the orders of their state.—In one

"word, they had come to demand restitution, and in

"case of refusal, to declare war."

Tuilus answered: " Tell your master, that the king

"of the Romans appeals to the gods, whether Rome \

"or Alba did first contemptuously dismiss the other's

"ambassadors demanding satisfaction, that upon that

"nation, they may heap all the calamities of this war."

The Albans return and deliver the message.

Both parties now exert their utmost in making pre­

parations for war \—a war indeed, that had the nearest

resemblance to that carried on between factipjjs of the

- same community, or rather of the same fan»ly\i^for both  
were of Trojan extraction, because Lavinium was of

Troy, Alba of La^jnium, and the'Romans were the race

of the Atban kings.-* But the manner in which the con­

test was decided, prevented the effusion of much blood,

for they never came to a general engagement: and both

nations became one people, at the expence only of the

houses of one city, which were demolished. The Albans

were first in the field, and entering the Ronran territory,

with a prodigious army, encamped and entrenched

