•62 .TITUS L1VIUS' BOOK I,

lowest and most childish superstitions; and, by his ex­

ample, the people were also infected. For the Romans,

in general, returned to the same spirit that prevailed un­

der Numa, persuaded that no other means were leftthem

•of escaping from the present calamity, but recourse to

the gods, and appeasing their wrath with sacrifices.

It is also said, that the king himself, in examining the

register of Numa, found that there were certain private

sacrifices-oflered annually to Jupiter Eliciu?, which he

shut himself up to perform. Butsoniething being wrong,

either in point of time, or mode of execution, he saw no

sigu from heaven of its acceptance; and besides, Jupiter

•was so provoked at his mistaken zeal, that he and his

house were consumed with fire from -heaven.*—Tullus

•reigned with great glory for thirty-two years.

CHAP. XXXII,

Ancus Al&riius renews tlie institutions of Numa. A. R.

r the death of Tullus, the administration, agreeably

to the constitution, devolved on the Senate. They named

an inter-rex, who, having called a convention, Ancus

Martius was declared king by the people, and the Senate

confirmed their choice. He was the grandson of Numa,

by a daughter. The new king, mindful of his grand­

father's reputation, found, that however glorious the last

reign had been iu other respects, in the worship of the

gods, either in point of frequency, or mode of perform­

ance, there had been a prodigious neglect. Therefore,

to avoid all innovations, he resolved to restore the insti­

tutions of Numa; and for that purpose, he orders the

high priest to collect them from the royal register, and

transcribe them upwn tables, to be exposed to public view.

From this specimen, his own subjects fond of ease,

and the neighbouring nations too, gladly hoped, that the

king would implicitly follow his grandfather's plan in

civil, as well as religious matters. In this confidence,

the Latins, with whom Tullus had settled all things by

treaty, began to pull up a spirit; and, having made an

incursion upon the Roman territory, treated with inso-

# The fire from heaven iu ascribed to Ancus Mjirtius.

