CHAP. 13. ROMAN HISTORY. 125

CHAP. XIII.

Porsenna concludes a peace with Rome. Adventure of

C/alia.

JVlUCIUS being thus dismissed, who afterwards from

the loss of his right hand, got the sirname of Scaavola;

ambassadors from Porsenna followed him to Rome. So

strongly had he been impressed with the first attempt

against him, in which nothing had saved him but a mis­

take of the hand that directed it, and reflecting, that he

must repeatedly run the same risk, while a single one

of the conspirators existed, he was determined to offer

conditions of peace to the Romans, as a motion from

himself.

He endeavoured, though to no purpose, to have the

restoration of the Tarquins made a clause in the articles

of pacification, because he conld not refuse them t hat

favour; not but that he knew welt th« Romans would

never accede to the proposal. An article; requiring the

restitution of lands to the Vejentes, was granted; and

the Romans agreed to give hostages, upon condition the

garrison should be withdrawn from the Janiculum. Peace

being now settled upon these terms, Porsenna drew off

his troops from the Janiculum, and evacuated the Ro­

man territory. The fathers, in consideration of Mucins's

spirited conduct, made him a present of lands on the

other side of the Tiber, which ever after, weut by the

name of the Meadows of Mucius.

Bravery being thus distinguished, the ladies too were

emulous, by their actions, to do honour to their country.

Clselia, a young lady, one of the hostages.xas the camp

of the Etrurians, was at no great distance from the bante

of the Tiber, having escaped from her guard, put-her­

self at the head of a troop of her companions, and amidst

a shower of the enemy's darts, swam to (he other side of

the river, brought them to Rome, and delivered them

safe to their relations. At which, when it was told to

the king, he was at first offended, and sent deputies to

Rome, demanding Clselia to be delivered up again; for

the rest, he did not much regard. Afterwards transport-

