CBAP. 4.5. ROMAN HISTORY. 2&T

CHAP. XLV.

Appim is opposed by Icilius.

X\.PPIUS, previously to bis passing sentence, told thenii

"That the law which had been cited by the friends of

"Virginia, was a proof of his zeal for liberty; but ft

"could only be a protection to liberty, when the per-

"sons and circumstances answer the description. For,

"with respect to those who are claimed as free, though

"reputed slaves, the plea is tenable, because the law is

"open. to every man.. But,, as far as the subject in

"question was- in the possession of a father, to him

"alone was the plaintiff obliged to yield the retention."

Wherefore, he decreed, "That the father should be sent

"for; and that the plainiiffs right, in the mean time,

"might not suffer, he might take home the girl to his

"house, on.condition, that he shall produce her in court

"when her reputed father shall appear."

Though many were shocked at the injustice of this

sentence, yet nobody ventured to speak out,. till her un­

cle, Numitariuii, and Icilius her mtended husband, came

into court. The crowd opened to receive them, imagin­

ing, especially after Icilius appeared, that Appius' de­

cree would not be put in execution.

But a lictor proclaimed, " That sentence was passed ;'-*

and pushed back Icilius, who complained loudly of the

injustice done him. So injurious a treatment would

have provoked patience itself.—" You must remove me

"from hence, Appius/' said he, " with the sword, if

"you would stifle the knowledge of your infamous de­

signs. Lam to marry this young lady; but I am to

murry her chaste and a virgin. Therefore, assemble

all your liotors, and if you please, those of your col­

leagues too; let them have all their rods and axes

ready, but Icilius' bride shall not stay out of her fa-

"ther's house. No! though you and your colleagues

"hav,e deprived the Romans of the protection of their

"tribunes, and the right of appeal, the two pillars of

"their liberty, we are not yet so degenerate, as to suffer

"our wives and children to become the victims of your,

