CHAP. 29. ROMAN HISTORY. 245

such respect and ready submission did people pay to su­

perior merit and superior authority, that the army, less

affected with the disgrace they had suffered, than the

benefit they had received, decreed the dictator a crown

of gold, of a pound weight, and at bis departure saluted

him their preserver. •

The Roman senate having been convened by Fabius,

the city prefect, decreed, that Quinctius, with the army'

he" commanded, should enter the city intriumph. The

generals of ,ihe enemy walked in chains before his cha­

riot; the ensigns taken from them,. were carried before

him, and the army loaded with booty, closed the proces­

sion. Tables were covered at every door, w.here the

soldiers stopping to regale themselves, again followed the

chariot, making the whole city resound with songs of

triumph, and revelling as at their annual feasts.

The same day, by the unanimous consent of the peo­

ple, the freedom of Rome was conferred on L. Mamilius

ofTusculum. Quinctius would have abdicated the dic­

tatorship immediately," had it not been for the trial of

Volscius for perjury, which the tribunes would have put

off long enough, had not the authority of the dictator

been interposed. Volscius was condemned,- and after­

wards banished, when he retired to Lanuvium; Though

Quinctius might'have "retained his high office for six

months, he resigned on the sixteenth day after his pro­

motion.

During these transactions, the consul Nautius was car­

rying all before him at Eretrum, against the Sabines,

whom he had not only distressed by ravaging their coun­

try, but had also routed in a general battle. Fa'bius was

sent to the Algid us, to succeed to Minucius. In the end

of the year, the tribunes began to stir again in the affair

"of the law: but as two armies were abroad, the senate

carried it, that n<3 bill should be preferred to the people.

Nevertheless, in the election of tribunes, the commons

prevailed, to have the same men continued in office, for

the fifth time. About this time, it was reported, that

wolves had been seen in the capitbl, and that they were

driven away by the dogs, for which reason it was pu­

rified.

