CHAP. 52. ROMAN HISTORY. &l

would not hear him in his own defence; but condemned

him to a new kind of death, to be thrown in at the head

of the spring of Ferentinum, with a hurdle laid on him,

covered with stones heaped on it, and there drowned.

CHAP. LII.

Tarquin's address to the assembly.

.L ARQUIN having recalled the Latins to the assem­

bly, and having commended them highly for the just

punishment they bad inflicted upon Turnus, for the

mtended massacre proved against him, to pave the way

for a revolution in the state, addressed them in the fol-:

lowing terms: " That he could plead an ancient right,

seeing all the Latins came originally from Alba, that

they were included in that treaty, whereby the whole

Alban state, with its colonies, had submitted to the

government of Rome, in the reign of Tullus. But,

he thought it would be more for the common interest,

if that treaty were renewed. And that the Latins

should rather share with the Romans in their good for­

tune, than either be in perpetual terror of, or subject­

ed to the destruction of their towns, or devastation of

their lands, as had been the case, first in the reign o

Ancus, and then in that of his own father."

The Latins were easily persuaded, although they saw

that the balance of mterest lay upon the side of the Ro­

mans, when they found that the leading men of the na­

tion were disposed to coincide with, and stand by the

king's motion. Besides, they were tauyht, in the exam­

ple of Turnus, what they had to expect, should any of

them be so bold as oppose him.

Thus was the treaty renewed, and the Latin youth

ordered by proclamation, in consequence of this treaty;

to assemble in arms, on a certain day, at the grove of

Ferentinum. When those of all the different tribes had

rendezvoused at the place appointed, agreeable to Tar­

quin's proclamation, that they might have no leader of

their own, no separate command, or ensigns of distinc­

tion, he blended the Romans and Latins together in eve­

ry company, making one of two, and two of o?.e. Hav­

