CHAP. 58. ROMAN HISTORY. 101

ened her also with infamy; he told her, that he would

kill one of her slaves, lay him naked by her when she

was dead, and then declare to all the world, that he had

killed her catched in adultery with the slave. The dread

of infamy, was as powerful in overcoming her obstinate

virtue, as the most irritating inclination. Tarquin had

his wishes; and set out in triumph, for having robbed a

lady of her virtue.

Lucretia sunk under the pressure of her misfortune,

dispatches a messenger to her father at Rome, with or-

. ders to go immediately from thence, to her husband in

the camp at Ardea, desiring them to meet her, and with

each a faithful friend ;-^-that no time must be lost, be­

cause something very extraordinary had happened. Spu-

rius Lucretius came, accompanied with Publius Valerius,

the son of Volesus; and Collations, with Lucius Junius

Brutus, with whom he was returning to Rome, when

he met his wife's messenger. He found Lucretia sitting

quite disconsolate in her bed-chamber. The moment

they entered the room she burst into tears. When her

husband put the question, "Are you well enough?"

*' Not at all," said she; " the woman who has lost her  
"honour, can, in no sense of the word be well. Ano-

"ther, my Collatinus, hath defiled your bed. But though

"my body is polluted, my soul is without stain. Of

«« this my death shall seal the truth. But give me your

<• right hands, and your promise, that the adulterer shall

"not go unpunished. It is Sextus Tarquinius, who

. v came hither last night with the air of a friend, but

"with the heart of a fiend; and, in arms, obtained by

"force, a pleasure, fatal to me,—and to him—if you

"are only men."

All of them gave their promise, in order as they stood;

and endeavoured to divert her melancholy, by excusing

her who was forced, and loading him with the blame,

who was the author of the guilt: arguing, that there

could be no crime, where there was no intention: for, it

is the soul that sins, the body cannot. "I leave it to

"my friends," said she, " to consider what is due to him;

"for my own part, though I can justly acquit myself

"from the guilt, I will not exempt myself from the pu-

"nishment; nor shall any woman hereafter survive her

