7« TITUS LIVIUS' Boon I.

in an upper storey, opening to the new street: for Tar-

quin's palace stood near the temple of Jupiter Siator:

telling them, " to make themselves easy :— that the king

"had been stunned with the sudden blow, but that the

"wound was not deep :— That he had now come to

"himself: — That the wound had been searched, and

'the blood washed away; and she hoped matters were

« in such a train that they would see him soon. In the

< mean time, it was his orders, that they should obey

*' Servius Tullius, who would administer justice, and per-  
• form every other office incumbent on the king." .-•-

Servius, upon thi.% ,went out dressed in the Trabea,*

attended by the Lictors, and being seated on the throne,

determines some causes, and leaves others undetermined,

till he should consult the king. Thus, therefore, though

.Tarquin had been already dead, by concealing that event

for some days, he had' an opportunity of strengthening

-bis interest, under the pretence of acting by deputation  
from his father-in-law.

When at last the event was made publicj and the la-

•mentations set up in the palace, Servius, surrounded

with a strong guard, was the first who was advanced to

the throne by the senators, without waiting for the con­

sent of the people. f — The sons of Ancus having now

been informed, that the .assassins they employed were

seized, that the king was still alive, and Servius's party

so very strong, went, of Iheir own accord, into banish-

jnent/to Suessa Pometia.J •'

\-;- CHAP. XLII.

".TUliits routi the Vejentes, and constitutes the Census.

, not only strengthened his interest by his at-

.lention to public business, but also by plans concerted

"in private; for, that the.; sons of Tarquin might not be

'actuated by the same spirit of resentment against him,

• '* The Trabea was tlie ordinary habit of the Roman monarchs;

-and differed from the Toga, in this particular, that it was adorned  
with stripes of purple, at proper distances from each other, on a

white ground. •'

t A, U. C. 116. J Now Cisterra Pontinae.

