CHA<-.45, ROMAN HISTORY. 173

swer, that their demand was unseasonable; it was not

yet time" to" fight, so that they must keep within their

camp. Then a proclamation was made, prohibiting them

to engage, under the severe penalty of" being treated as

an enemy.

Dismissed thus, the backwardness the consuls shewed

to fighting, only served to increase their ardour; more­

over, when the enemy got intelligence that the consuls

had resolved not to risk a battle, they repeated their

insults with more violence than ever, being now assured

they might do it with impunity, as the soldiers would

not be trusted with arms: This at last would terminate

in a mutiny, and that in the dissolution of the Roman

empire. Stimulated with these reflections, they advan­

ced haughtily to the works, branded them with a thou­

sand opprobrious names, and were within a little of

storming the camp.

The soldiers could no. longer suffer an abuse so offen­

sive, but ran from all quarters of the camp to the con­

suls, not formally as before, by the principal of the cen­

turions, but almost all in a body, with loud cries, de­

manding to be Ied on to battle. The time was now

come, but they were still put off; at last Fabius, find­

ing his colleague giving way, lest the tumult should end

in a revolt, after the trumpet had sounded to silence,

addressed him thus: "That these fellows can conquer,

1 am perfectly assured; but whether they will,—that

is the question. Therefore, with me it is a decided

and determined point, never to give the signal for

battle, till they first swear that they will return vic­

torious. They once deceived a Roman consul, but

'the gods they will not deceive." Among the fore­

most of those who were urgent for battle, was M. Flavo-

leius, a centurion, "I shall return, Marcus Fabius,"

said he, " from the field victorious. If I deceive you,

"may father Jupiter, "Mars Gradivus, and ihe other

"incensed deities, dash me to pieces." The rest -of

the army followed his example, each swearing to the

same purpose.

Having thus sworn, the signal is given; they fly to

their arms, and big with resentment as well as hopes,

they march em to battle. They tell them now to deal

