244 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK III.

The engagement wiih the consular army continued

till morning, bv which time the dictator had drawn his

works quite round them, nor were they quite a match for

one of the armies. Then the dictator's troops ha3 no

sooner finished their work, than they run to their arms

and attacked the enemy's lines.

Here was new work cut out for them, without the

least respite from the old, which was still maintained

with great vigour, and being at last overpowered bv an

enemy on each side, they threw down their arms, and

begged quarter, on the one side conjuring the dictator,

on the other, the consul, not to place victory in the utter

destruction of their nation, but to suffer them to depart

unarmed. The consul referred them to the dictator,

who being highly provoked, ordered them to bring their

general, Gracchus Claelius, and their other leaders in

chains to him, and immediately to evacuate the city of

Corbio; telling them at the same time, " That as be

"did not want their blood, he would let them go; but

"that by passing under the yoke, they should acknoW-

"ledge, in the face of -the sun, they were now a con-

"quered people." This yoke was constructed with

three spears, two whereof stood perpendicular to the

plain, and the third laid across them, under which, agree­

able to the dictator's order, they all passed.

CHAP. XXIX.

Cincinnaius triumphs. MinutiuS degraded.

.HAVING taken the enemy's camp, which was plenti­

fully supplied with stores of every kind, and indeed he

-had stripped them of every thing, he gave all the booty  
to his own soldiers. To the consul .and his army, he

gave nothing but a sharp rebuke; telling them, " You

"shall not, soldiers, who were just about to fall a prey

"to your enemies, have any share in their spoils. And

"as for you L. Minucius, titl you begin to have the spi-

"rit of a consul, you shall only serve as a lieutenam-ge-

"neral in this army." Minucius abdicated the consul­

ship, and continued with the army as he was ordered.

So religiously was discipline observed at this time, and

