CHAP. 54.' ROMAN HISTORY. 389

CHAP. LIV.

Three plebeian quecstors cboten.,

J. HE consuls elected upon this occasion were Cn. Cor­

nelius Cossus, and L. Furius MeduMinus, for the second

time. At no time were the people more highly pro­

voked than at this, when they were not permitted to

ehuse military tribunes. But they both consoled and

avenged themselves on that account, in the election of

quEestors. This was the first time that Plebeians were

admitted to the Quaestorship; and of four places, there

was only one reserved for Caeso Fabius Ambustus, a Pa­

trician, Q. Silius, P. jElius, and P. Pupius, were prefer­

red to the sons of the first families in Rome. I find that'

three of the Icilian family, who had been chosen tri­

bunes that year, and noted for the inveteracy of their fa-

'mily against the Patricians, were the principal instfga-

tors of the people to assume this freedom in giving their

suffrages, promising them innumerable advantages, of

which they were excessively fond; but declaring at the

same time, that they would not move a step towards the

execution of them, if at the Comitia for electing quaes­

tors, the only officers whom the senate had left them at

liberty to choose indiscriminately out of either order,they

had not resolution enough to effectuate what they had so

long inclined, and what the laws left them at liberty to

<Io. The people considered this as a very great victory;

for they did not estimate the quaMtorship from the in­

trinsic privileges of the office, but as it opened a doijr by

which men of low birth might enter to the consulship

and to triumphs.

On the other hand, the fathers murmured, not be­

cause the honours of the state were to be shared with

the commons, but because they were in a fair way to

lose them altogether. They insisted, that if they were

to go on at this rate, it was needless to train up children

for exalted stations, if they were to be supplanted in the

offices of their ancestors, and see others in possession of

the honours due to them, whilst they were left in the

obscure offices of priests and Salii, with no other em­

