260 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK III.

** To consider rather the natural obligation by which he  
"was bound to the country that gave him birth, than

"the wicked and unjust compact he had engaged him-

"self in, with his colleagues: That however much he

"was concerned for the state, it was still more for his

"own sake he made him that request. For he might

"depend on it, the Republic would compel them to

"restore its rights, should they be obstinate enough

"to refuse it: But as great contests were generally

"productive of mnch ill blood, he shuddered at the

"thoughts of what the event might be."

However much the tlecemvirs were determined that

there should be no opinion delivered, but upon the sub­

ject of their meeting, yet they were ashamed to interrupt

Claudia?, who therefore gave his opinion, that the senate

should by no means pass a decree; which was declaring

in plain terms, thai he viewed the decemvirs in no other

light bin that of private persons. Many consular gen­

tlemen declared themselves of the same opinion.

There was another opinion, in appearance, still more

harsh; but in effect less conclusive, viz. that the Pa­

tricians should meet to choose an Inter-rex. For, by

this state of the vote, they who held the senate were ac­

knowledged as magistrates; but by the other, which de-

clnred for no decree, they were made privaie persons.

The interest of the decemvirs being now visibly on the

decline. Lucius Cornelius Maluginensis, brother to M.

Cornelius the decemvir, who had been reserved on pur­

pose to deliver his opinion the last of all the consular

gentlemen, stood up for his brother and his colleagues,

by pnrending a mighty concern for the war. "He was

"surprized, (he said,) by what fatality, men, who, them-

"selves hail been candidates for the decemvirate, or

"partners in it, should above all others be so keen in

"their opposition to the decemvirs? And how it came

"about, that during many months, when all was quiet,

"nobody made I he least objection to the justice of their

"title, who then acted as supreme magistrates, till now

"that the enemy is near our gates, that they want to

"involve us in domestic broils; if it be not, that they

"imagine, their real designs will be better concealed in

"the confusion. But it was extremely proper, while

