CHAP. 12. ROMAN HISTORY. 329.

in the senate : and when after a mighty bustle, he pre­

vailed so far as to get the opinion of the fathers, whether

the comitia should be held for electing consuls or mili­

tary tribunes; consuls were ordered to be elected. His

threats, that he would obstruct the levies, were matter of

ridicule, for, when there was neither war, nor prepara­

tion for it, what occasion was there for levies?

This stat'e of tranquillity was followed by a year che­

quered with a combmation of calamities, occasioned by

famine and sedition, during the consulship of Proculua

Geganius Macerinus, and L. Menenius Lanatns, when

the people, by means of bribery, had almost been sad­

dled with regal power. Had one foreign war been .

thrown into the scale, the state must have inevitably sunk

to perdition. The first of these calamities was a famine,

either owing to a bad season, or the neglect of agricul­

ture, for dancing attendance to assemblies, and the plea­

sures of the city. For both these reasons are given.

The senators reproached the people with idleness, and

the tribunes blamed the consu'-, sometimes for want of

honesty, and sometimes for inattention.

At last, with the senate's concurrence; the people

made choice of L. Minucius as prefect, or snpeiinten-

dant of provisions, who was more happy, while in office,

in securing the liberty of the state, than in the execution

of his office; although at last, he had justly the honour

of lowering the price of provisions, and the thanks ef

his country on that account: For, having dispersed

agents, by sea and land, to no purpose, through the

neighbouring states, excepting a stnall matter from Etru-

ria, when no corn could be got, he turned hrs attention

to a frugal management of what little-was to be found

nt home, by obliging every one to produce h'rs corn, to

sell above one month's provision, by reducing the daily

aljnwance to slaves, and by accusing the corn merchants,

and exposing them to the resentment of the people, so

that by the strictness of his scrutiny, he rather exposed

their penury, than relieved it; in consequence of which,

many of the people, in a fit of despair, chose rather to

throw themselves blindfolded into the Tiber, than suffer •

any longer the miseries of so cruel a famine.

