CHAP. H. ROMAN HISTORY. 219

in opposing the levies, did the Patricians exert in oppos­

ing the law, which wasconstantly proposed every comi-

tial day. A quarrel arose, when the tribunes ordered the

people to leave the forum, from which, the Patnciaus

would, by no means, suffer themselves to be removed.

As the debates in these assemblies were not managed

with temper, the aged senators seldom appeared there,

leaving the conduct of the opposition, to the rash and

audacious young nobles. For some time, too, the consuls

kept away, for fear of exposing the dignity of their office

to insult, in such a mixed convention. There was one

Caeso Quinctius, a young nobleman of high spirit, with

which, his high birth, extraordinary size, and great

strength, inspired him. To these advantages the gods

had bestowed upon him, he had added many honours

gained in war, and was an excellent speaker, so that the

. republic could not boast of a better soldier, or a greater

orator.

This youth, when enriched by his band of nobles,

was always most conspicuous; and as if his strength and

eloquence had mvested him with all consular, and even

dictatorial power, he boldly sustained the storms of the

tribunes, and fury of the mob. Under his conduct, the

tribunes had been frequently driven out of the forum,

and the rabble dispersed and put to flight Whoever

offered to resist, did not fail to be roughly handled and

stripped naked. Hence, they easily saw, that unless he

got a severe check, their exertions to promote the law

would signify nothing.

When the other tribunes had given over all for lost,

one of their number, A Virginius, summoned Caeso,

against a certain day, to be tried capitally. This step,

far from abating, served only to enflame the courage of

this impetuous youth. He still persisted in opposing the

law with more vehemence than ever, redoubled hisin-

sblts of the plebeians, and attacked the tribunes without

any reserve, as having then a just cause for making war

upon them. His accuser, after his impeachment, suf­

fered him to go every length, that by his outrages, he

might increase the odium against him, and furnish them

with new matter of grievance.

In the mean time, he continued to push the law, not

so much from any hopes he had of carrying it, as to

