394 T1TCS LIVIUS' BOOK IV.

them time to recede from a resolution in which they

had discovered too much obstinacy; but as the dangers

of war were too importunate to admit of delay, he would

prefer the interest of the state to the favour of bis Col­

leagues; and if the senate persisted in their resolu­

tion, lie would name a dictator that very night; and if

any should oppose the senate's decree, he would con­

sider their authority as sufficient for his purpose."

When by this declaration, he ltad gained the just ap­

plause and favour of all ranks, he named P. Cornelias

dictator, by whom he was also .declared general of the

horse, which'may convince any one, who will compare

his conduct with that of his colleagues. that those who do

not court respect and honour, are sometimes in the way

to both.

The war was not considerable. For the enemy was

routed at Antium, in one engagement, and that a very

slight one. The victorious army laid waste the country

of the Volsci, and took a fort upon "the lake Fucinus,

where they made three thousand prisoners; the rest of

the Volsci being obliged to take refuge within their

walled towns, and leave their country to be ravaged by

the enemy.

The dictator having finished this war in such a man­

ner, as made it appear that he had neglected no oppor­

tunity fortune put in his way, he returned to Rome with

more success than glory, and resigned his office. The

military tribunes, without the least mention of a consu-

lar comitia, very probably out of resentment because a

dictator had been created, proclaimed the assemblies

for the election of military tribunes. The fathers were

the more sensibly piqued at this proceeding, as they saw

themselves betrayed by their own party. 'Wherefore as

they had, the preceding year, created a disgust among

the Plebeians at the better sort of their order, by setting

up for candidates mere tatterdemalions, so now, having

prevailed with those of the Patricians who were most

eminent for the popularity and lustre oftheir families,

to appear as candidates, they secured all the places, and

gave not the least chance to a Plebeian. There were

four elected, who had all filled that office before, L.

Fiurius Medultinus, C. Valerius Potitus, Numerius Fa­

