178 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK II.

derahly thirmed; for trusting to the superiority of num­

bers, they had detached the corps-de-reserve, to storm

the Roman camp. There, meeting with little resistance,

they carried it at the tirst assault: but whilst they were

more intent upon plunder than fighting, the Triarii,*

who could not sustain the first charge, got time to send

advice to the consuls of what passed in the camp, and

putting themselves in a body, returned to the general's

tent, and of themselves renewed .tlie engagement. The

consul Manlius too, posted back to the camp, planted

guards at every gate, and left the enemy not an opening

to retire through. Despair threw them into a fit of rage,

rather than inspired them with courage. For, when

they had often attempted to force their way, without

success, a body of youth attacked the consul, whom they

knew by the splendour of his arms. The first volley of

darts was received by the soldiers who supported him;

but the fury of the assailants at last prevailed, for the

consul having received a mortal wound, fell from his

horse, when all his party were routed. ,

This inspired the Etrurians with fresh courage, and

spread universal terror throughout the Roman camp,

and it would have ended in the total loss of the day, had

not the lieutenants carried off the bady of the consul, and

opened one of the gates of the camp, for a passage to the

enemy. Through it they rushed out with the utmost

precipitation; and by the way, fell in with the other

consul, who had been victorious, and by his party were

almost all cut to pieces. Thus a glorious victory was

obtained, but the joy was damped by the loss of two of

their bravest officers.

Wherefore, the consul, after the senate had decreed

him the honour of a triumph, declined it, with this apo­

logy, " That if the army could go through the ceremony

*' of a triumph, without a general, their generous exer-  
<' tions in the war entitled them to that honour, and he

"would subscribe to it with pleasure; but for his own

"part, whilst his family were in mourning for the loss

* So called from their position, beinir marshalled in the third  
rank, as ttie strength and hopes of their party. They were com-

roonjy veterans of experience and known valour.

