446 tirUS-LIVIUS' BooKV.

rinus were chosen consuls. In the beginning of this

year, whilst the tribunes renewed their intrigues with all

imaginable zeal, to get their bill passed, as they had nut

one opponent in all the college, the consuls for that very

reason, were equally active to prevent it; and whilst the

whole city seemed to be intent upon that point alone,

the /Equi made themselves masters of the Veteleian co­

lony which had been planted in their courrtrv- The

greatest part of the planters escaped unhurt, bv the back

gates of the city, through which, favoured by the dark­

ness of the night, when the city was taken by treachery,

they had a free passage, and fled to Rome.

L. Lucretius got that province by lot. He marched

with an army, chastised the enemy, and returned victo­

rious to Rome, where a more obstinate engagement

awaited him. A day was appointed for the trial of An-

lus Virginius, and Q. Pomponius, both tribunes of the

people for the two preceding years j in whose defence,

by conseDt of the father?, the honour of the senate was

engaged. They could be charged with no crime, either

with respect to their morals, or the discharge of their

office, but that they had, to gratify the Patricians, op­

posed the bill brought in by their colleagues. The peo­

ple's resentment prevailed over the interest of the fathers,

aod innocent men, in this shocking instance, were con­

demned in a fine of 10,000 asses of brass,*. . A sentence

which gave great offence to the fathers. • '•

Camillus openly accused the people of the most scan­

dalous partiality. 'Their rage, (said he,) is now turned

against their own party; not perceiving, that by their

iniquitous sentence, thay had given a mortal btow to

their tribunitian power, by depriving their iribunes.of

the privilege of intercessjpti: for if they. imagined,

that the senate would endure an unbridled licentiots-

ness iti any of 'these- magistrates, they were' dresdfiil^y

mistaken. 'For if the violence of •some of the tribunes

could not be checked by the opposition-bf':s6me of the

college, the}' might be assured the Senate would finH

another method of restraining it;? "-'" He "tikewise-re?

proved the consuls, for tamely srandmg'By, and suffering

the two tribunes to be oppressed, who bad acted entirely

'"

