P. 36. ROMAN HISTORY. 253

They durst not however, oppose his ambitious views

in a direct manner, but ihey endeavoured to counterplot

him by a feigned compliance. As the youngest among

them, by one consent, they choosed him to preside in

the assembly at the general election. The design of this

was, to put it out of his power to put himself upon the

list, a thing quite unprecedented, except among the

tribunes, and even then, considered as an instance of the

grossest impropriety. However, he declared he would

hold the Comitia, which he hoped would prove fortu­

nate, and turned the obstacles laid in his way into the

me<-us of success. For, having by his intrigues got the

two Quinctii set aside, with Capitolinus, Cincinnatus his

uncle, C. Claudius, a man, who had shewu himself always

in the interest of the nobility, and other citizens of the

same distinction, he created men decemvirs, who were

their interiors in every respect; having, moreover, put

himself first in nomination, a circumstance that to every

good man, appeared so shameful, that nobody imagined

he would have carried his impudence to so extraordmary

an height. The other nine were M. Cornelius Malugi-

nensis, M. Sergius, L. Minucius, Q,. Fabius Vibulanus,

Q. Pretelius, T. Antonius Merenda, Caeso Duilius, Sp.

Oppius, Cornicen, M. Rubuleius.

CHAP. XXXVI.

i • i

Villainy of the Decemvirs. A. R. 305.

JTIERE Appius threw off the mask: frora this date, be

began to aci more consistently with' his real character,

and took care, that his new colleagues, even before they

entered upon office, should all be formed upon his own

model. They had private meetings every day, in which

they concerted schemes of tyranny, which they conceal­

ed from all mankind, and now far from dissembling their

pride, they became accessible to few, and even those

they treated with the utmost reserve, till the ides of May;

at that time,, the usual term of entering upon office. The

very first day, they made their official parade, filled the

whole city with terror and consternation. They appear­

ed in the forum, each with twelve lictors before hirri,

M

