90 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK I.

permit them to hide a great quantity of arms in his

master's lodgings. Tarquin, having completed all his

scheme, in the course of one night, sent for the La­

tin chiefs, a little before day, and as if he had- been

alarmed with some extraordinary discovery, told them,

"That his absence yesterday, had been ordered by the

"wise providence of the gods, both upon their account

"and his own: That Turn us he was told had concert-

"ed measures to dispatch him, and the principal of

"the Latins, that he alone might have the supreme

"power over the nation: That the attempt would

•' have been made yesterday in the convention, had it

"not been delayed, because he who had called the

council, and whom he particularly pointed at, was

absent: That for this very reason, he had spoke so

illiberally of him, in his absence, because his late

appearance had disconcerted his measures. He had

no doubt, if his intelligence was good, but by day­

break, when the assembly meets, he will come in

arms, with a band of conspirators; that he was also-

informed, that a great number of swords had been se­

cretly conveyed to him, which, whether true or false,

"could be discovered in a moment. Upon this, he re-.

"quested that they would go along with him to Tur-

"nus."

The violence of Turnus's temper, his speech the day

before, and Tarquin's late appearance in the assembly,.

because it seemed as if that circumstance had delayed

the intended massacre, all put together, made the thing

look suspicious: wherefore, although they accompanied

Tarquin, disposed to give credit to his report; yet they

were of opinion, that should the swords not be found

wkh him, it would all go for nothing. When they

came to his lodgings, they awaked Turnus, set a guard

upon him, and seized his domestics; who, out of affec­

tion for their master, began to" make opposition, when

the arms that had been concealed, were brought from

every corner of the apartment. The truth of the matter

now seemed indisputable, and Turnus was clapped in

chains. Immediately a council of the Latins was called

in a prodigious hurry, where the swords, produced in

court, exasperated them so much against him, that

