CHAP. 25. ROMAN HISTORY. 51

1

CHAP. XXV.

The combat of the Horatii and Curiatii-

J. HE treaty being thus concluded, the three brothers

on each side take arms, according to agreement. Whilst

each party are animating their respective champions, by

representing that their gods, their country, their fathers

and mothers, the whole city and army had their eyes

fixed on their swords and actions; the combatants, brave

of themselves, and still more invigorated by such press­

ing exhortations advance to the centre between the two

armies. The two armies were ranged on both sides

round the field of battle, safe from danger for the present,

but anxious for the future, because empire was at stake,

depending on the exertions and fortune of so few. Where­

fore, agitated with these reflections, and solicitous about

the event, they turn their whole attention to a sight,

which could not be very agreeable.

The signal is given, and the champions march boldly

three and three against each other, themselves alone in­

spired with the courage of great armies. Both insensi­

ble of their own danger, having nothing before their

eyes but the slavery or liberty of their country; the

future destiny of which, must entirely depend upon their

present exertions. The moment thes clashing of their

weapons is heard, and the glitter of their swords seen,

the spectators seized with fear and alarm, whilst hopes

of success inclined to neither side, continued motionless,

and seemed to have lost the power of speech, and even

of breathing. When they were thus fairly engaged, not

only the motion of their bodies, and the brandishing of

their weapons attracted the eyes of the spectators, but

the wounds and blood running from them. Two Ro­

mans dropped dead at the feet of the Atbans, who were

wounded all three. Thejpfall was instantly announced

by the loud and joyful shouts of the Alban army, whilst

the Roman legions remained without hope, but not with­

out anxiety, trembling for the single Roman, who now

stood surrounded by the three Albans. Happily he was

not wounded.

V

