82 TITUS L1VIUS* BOOK I.

prodigy, immediately repairs to the Tiber. In the mean

time, the Romans sacrificed the heifer to Diana,' which

gave universal satisfaction to the king and all the city.

A.

CHAP. XLVI.

Tullita accused by young Tarquin.-

I.LTHOUGII hong possession had now established

Servius ou the throne; yet, because lie heard that you ui;

Tarquin was sometimes giving out, that he had usurped

the sovereignty, without the consent of the people, hav­

ing first secured their good will, by dividing among

them, impartially, the conquered lands, he then ventur­

ed to put the question, " Whether they willed and com­

manded him to be their king?" Upon which they re­

cognized him king, with an unanimity scarce ever known

before. But this was so far from discouraging Tarquin

or giving a check to his ambition, that it only confirm­

ed his hopes: for, besides the impetuosity of his own

temper, he was constantly dunned with the solicitations

of his wife Tullia; he was not ignorant, that the division

of the conquered lands among the people, was not agree­

able to the fathers, and therefore, he concluded, that he

had a noble opportunity, in accusing Servius to the se­

nate, of raking bis own reputation.

This produced a scene of the most inhumyi and savage

cruelty in the court of Rome: That the people disgusted

at monarchy, might the sooner enjoy the sweets of liber­

ty, and that he should be the last king, who should usurp

the title, by the commission of the work of crimes, this

Lucius Tarquinius, (whether he was the son or grandson

of Tarquiuios Priscus, is a question; but out of respect

to most authors, I shall call him his sorr) had a brother

called Aruns Tarquinius, remarkable for sweetness of.

disposition. To these brothers, as we have formerly ob­

served, the two Tullias, the king's daughters, who were

'also very different in their tempers, had been married.

It had so happened, by the good fortune, very probably,

of the Roman people, that the two violent tempers were

not united, by which means the life of Servius was pro­

longed, to form the morals of the state.

