CHAP. 24. ROMAN HISTORY. i 4S7

what was due to the god, was no easy matter. At last

they had recourse to an expedient, which seemed to be

least troublesome. They ordered all those who wished

to have their consciences clear with respect to this vow,

and to insure the safety of then families, to make a fair

and candid estimate of the booty they had obtained,

and lodge the tenth pair of that value in the public trea­

sury, that it might be formed into a present of pure gold,

worthy the august temple, and majesty of that god for

svhom it was mtended, and suitable to the grandeur of

the Roman people. This contribution added to the

people's disgust at Camillas.

.In the mean time .ambassadors came from the Volsci

to sue. for peace, which was granted them, not out of*

respect to their merit, but to give the people some re-

spite, from war, with which they had been so long and so

much harassed. *

CHAP. XXIV.

Inroltment for a Colony to be planted in the Volscian ter­

ritory. Motion for transferring it to Veii.

L.FTER the reduction of Veii, six military tribunes

with consular power, were elected for the following

year, the two P. P. Corne'ii, Cossus, and Scipio, M.

Valerius Maximus, a second, Creso Fabius Maximus, a

third, L. Furius Medullinus, a fifth, and Q. Servilius, a

third time. Whilst the war with.the Falisci fell by lot

to the Cornelii, that with the Capenates, to Valerius and

Servilius, they made no attempt upon their cities by

storm, or blockade, contenting themselves with ravaging

the country, and carrying off their implements of hus­

bandry. JSot one fruit-tree nor.stalk of corn was left in

the country. This distress humbled the Capenates.

They sued for peace and obtained it.

The war with the Falisci was carried on. At Rome,

during these transactions, there were many seditions;

to appease which, they had determined to send a colony

into the country of the Volsci, for which 3000 Roman

citizens were enrolled. The three commissioners chosen

to conduct this business, had assigned to each planter

three seven-twelfths Roman acres. The people began

