208 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK III.

quality of pro-consul *, with an army of the allies, to

the relief of the camp. The Latins, Hernici, and co­

lony of Antium, were ordered to make up his compli­

ment with subitarii, for so auxiliaries raised on a sudden

were called in those days.

CHAP.V

Relieved by Suinctius. Great slaughter of the 2Equi.

AN the mean time, the enemy were every wherein mfc-

tion. making different attacks in different places, at one

and the same time; for. being superior in point of num­

bers, they endeavoured, by dividing the Roman forces^

insufficient for the defence of every place at once, to

cut them off in small parties: At the same time that

they endeavoured to force the camp, they sent out parties

to lay waste the country, and to carry desolation to the

city itself, should they find a favourable opportunity.

L. Valerius was left to guard the city, whilst the con­

sul Posthumius was sent to drive the plunderers from

the frontiers. Nothing was omitted, in any instance, in

point of care or vigilance. Guards were placed in the

city, centinels at the gates, and strong parties to defend

the walls: and what became necessary in such confusion,

a vacation of all courts of justice was appointed for se­

veral days.

In the mean time, the consul Furiu?, although he

had suffered himself, without bustle, to be blocked up

in his camp, made a sudden sally from the back gatei

upon the unguarded* enemy; and although he might

have pursued his advantage, he stopped short, fearing

his camp might be in danger from some other quarter.

His brother Lucius, who was also his lieutenant-gene­

ral, went too far, his eagerness in the pursuit prevent­

ing him from observing the return of his friends, or the

enemy's atack on his rear. Being cut off in this man­

ner, from the body of the army, after he had often at­

tempted to open himself a passage to the camp, he fell,

* The pro-consul acted in all respects as consul, in the province  
Committed to his care, but nowhere else.

