CHAP. 68. ROMAN HISTORY. , 30i

'quisite of the commons. You have the protection of

'your tribunes: the privilege of appeal, and ydur de-

« crees wreathed about ihe necks of the Patricians. Un-

'der pretence of equal and impartial laws, you have

'invaded our rights: we have.suffered it, and still suffer

• it. Shall we never see an end of civil discord? When

'shall we have one common interest, and one common

• country? Victorious and triumphant as you are, you

, shew less temper than we under our defeat. Is it not

enough, thai we are afraid of you? When you are to

'contend with us, you can seize the Aventine hill, you

'can retire to the sacred Mount. The enemy is at your

'gates, the Esquiline is almost in the hands of the enemy,

'and the Volsci scaling your ramparts, yet nobody stirs

• to oppose it: but, against us you are valiant: against

'us you can arm with all diligence.'

G

CHAP. LXVIII.

In continuation.

/OME on then, besiege the. senate-house, make, an

hostile camp of the forum, fill the jails with the prime

'nobility, and when you have performed these mighty

• feats, then sally out at the Esquiline gate, whilst your

'.courage is up against the enemy. If this be too much

'for such spirits as yours, go and behold from your walls,

'vour lands ravaged, your houses plundered and in

'flames, and the whole country laid waste with fire and

'sword. But the public interest by these means, is

• still in a more deplorable state: the whole country it

'in flames, the city is invested, and the enemy tri-

'umphanjt.

'In the name of the gods, what will be the conse-

'queace with respect to your private concerns? There

'is not one of you, but will hear soon enough of his

-.*. losses. And what have you here to repair them? Will

• your tribunes make up and indemnify you, for your

'losses? They will give you words, as many as you

'please:—bring impeachments against the first men iu

• the republic, in great abundance ;—heap laws upon

'laws;—assemblies u.rxm assemblies.—But, will air*

O

