CHAP. S. ROMAN HISTORY. 19'

the times, to his mother, or step-mother, and laid the/

foundation of another new city tor himself, at the foot

of mount Alba, which, from its situation, being extended

on the declivity of a hill, was called Longa Alba*

From the.time that Lavinium was founded, and the

colony planted at Alba Longa, there was an interval of

near thirty years. Yet so rapid was the progress of the

Latin power, especially after the defeat of the Etrurians,

that not even upon .Kneas'sdeath, nor thereafter, during

the regency of Lavinia, and the first exhibitions of a

juvenile administration, did Mezentius, or the £trurians,

or any other neighbouring power, dare to make the least

attempt against it. A peace had been made on these

terms, that the river Albula, which they now call the

Tiber, should be the line of division, between the Etru-

rianTJmd Latins.

Sylvius, by some accident born in a wood, succeeded

his father Ascaniusf. Him also his son, ./Eneas Sylvia

succeeded, who transmitted the kingdom to his son La-

tinus Sylvius. This king planted several colonies, and

called them ancient Latins. After him the name of Syl­

vius was assumed by all the succeeding kings of Alba.

Alba was the son and successor of Latinus, Alys of Alba,

Capys of Alys, Capetus of Capys, and of Capetus Ti-

berinus, who was drowned in crossing the Albula, and

thereby left it a name famous among posterity.

Agrippa was the son and successor of Tiberinus,

and Romulus Sylvias of Agrippa. He being killed by

lightning, the kingdom devolved on Aventinus, who

was buried on that hill, which is now part of the city

of Rome, and called by his name. After him Proca

reigneJ, the father of Numitor and Amulius. To

Numitor, his eldest son, he left. the ancient kingdom of

the Sylvian family; but power was more prevalent

than the will of a parent, or the deference due to se­

niority.

Numitor was expelled, aml Amulius usurped the go-

. vernment. One crime followed upon the heels of ano­

ther. He cut off all his brother's representatives of the

male line; and that there might be no hopes of poste-

* Patazotta. •(• Some say bis brother.

