348 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK IV.

x

misunderstanding between themselves, and crossing each

oilier in every measure. Some authors affirm, that they

vere defeated at the Algidus, which was the reason that

a dictator was named. One titing, nevertheless, is certain,

that however ihey differed in other things, they joined

in opposing the senate's motion for naming a dictator,

till expresses upon expresses announced the progress of

the enemy's arms, and the consuls still persisted in their

obstinacy. Q. Servilius Priscus, who had enjoyed the

highest honours of the state with great credit, turning to

the tribunes of the people, told them, ' Since maiters are

• now come to this extremity, tribunes, the senate calls

'upon you, considering the danger to which the state is

'exposed, to exert your authority, and compel the con-

'suls to name a dictator. This was no sooner said,

than the tribunes, who thought they had now a fair op­

portunity of extending their power, withdrew a littte,

and returned with the following declaration in name of

the college: 'It is the pleasure of the tribunes, that the

'consuls should obey the senate; and if they persisted

'one moment longer in their opposition to the united

* desire of that very august order, they would command  
'them instantly to be laid in jail.'

The consuls chose rather to submit to the tribunes

than to the senate; upbraiding ihe fathers, however,

that it was by them the consular authority was beiray­

ed, and subjected to the power of the tribunes. For, if

a tribune, by his authority, could oblige the consuls to

do as he pleased, and if he refused, could also order him

to jail, what worse had even a private person to tear?

It fell by lot, to Titus Quinctius to name the dictator,

for the matter could not otherwise be settled between

the consuls. He named his father-in-law, A. Posthu-

miu? Tubertius, a man exceedingly haisb and imperious,

to the dictatorship, and he, L. Julius, for his general of

the horse. A vacation was immediately proclaimed, and

nothing minded in all the city but preparations for war.

The trial of those who pleaded an exemption from the

'service was put off till the end of the war; so that they

whose title was doubtful, .suffered themselves to be en-

rol-ed. The Hernici and Latins were ordered to furnish

their quotas, and both paid respect to the dictator's or­

ders with all possible diligence.

