CHAT. 33. ROMAN HISTORY. 71

drowned in the river, which carried their arms floating.

with the current, to publish this signal victory at Rome,

.before the arrival of the express.

The principal honour, in this action, was due to the-

horse'; for, as they were posted in the two wings, and

observed the infantry, which composed the main body of

the army, already giving way, it is said, they charged so

briskly in flank, that they not ojily gave a check to the

Sabine legions, who were carrying all before them, but

obliged them to retreat with precipitation. The Sabines

fled to the mountains in great disorder, which only few

of them reached! the greatest part, as formerly observed,

having been pushed by the cavalry into the river.

Tarquin determined to make the must of their terror,

sent the prisoners and booty to Rome; and having piled

up and set fire to the spoils, which he had vowed to Vul­

can, advanced with his army to the Sabine territories.

Although the Sabines had got a severe check, and could

see no prospect of being able to retaliate; yet, as there

was no time for deliberation, they came out with an

army tumultuously assembled; but they were routed

again; and being reduced-to the last extremity, sued for

peace.

CHAP. XXXVIII.

He builds a wall round the city, and drains the water from

the rallies.

V>OLLATIA and the country about it, in consequence of

this victory, was ceded to the Romans, and Egerius, the

king's nephew, left governor of the place. It is, how­

ever, affirmed in history, that Collatia capitulated, and

surrendered in the following form: The king put the

question, " Are you delegates and deputies commission*

ed by the people of Collatia, to surrender yourselves

and them? We are. Are the people of Collatia their

own masters! They are. Do you then surrender

yourselves, the people of Collatia, their city, their

lands, their water, their marches, temples, utensils,

and every thing sacred, or civil, belonging unto them,

