. <H. ROMAN HISTORY". 291

troops were marched out, and had time to form them­

selves; and to intimidate them the more, raising a great

shout, they appeared before the Roman consul, like an

unweildy mob assembled without design, and looking at

one another. At first they gave way; but being re­

proached by their generals for losing ground before ene­

mies they had beat, they resumed their courage, and re­

newed the fight.

CHAP. LXI.

Victory over the 3Lqui and Volsci. '-

JL HE consul, on the other hand, put the Romans in

mind, " That this was the first opportunity, since they

"became free, that fortune had given them of distin-

"guishing themselves for a free country.—That they

"would now conquer for themselves, and not for decem-

"virs.—That Appius was no longer their commander,

but Valerius the consul; who being descended of pa­

triots, had himself established the liberty of the peo­

ple.—That they should now demonstrate, it was not

owing to the soldiers, but to the generals, that in for-

'mer battles they had not been victorious. To have

'~it 'aid, that they had signalized themselves more

against iheir fellow citizens, than now against the ene­

my; and that they were more afraid of slavery in

Rome, than in the field of battle, would be infamous

"to the last degree. That Virginia was only one indi-

"vidu.il, whose chastity was in danger in time of peace, .

"and in the criminal passion of Appius alone, this dan-

"ger totally centered. But, were the fortune of war to

"declare against them, the danger from so many thou-

"sand enemies, would not even be confined to them-

"selves, but descend to their posterity. But, he would

"not di'aw conclusions from events, which he hoped

"Jupiter, and their father Mars, would never suffer to

~" befal a city, founded wii it such glorious prospects."

Then putting them in mind of the Aventine and sacred

Mounts, he told them, " That as but a few months

*' before, they had there regained their liberty, ^hither  
«' it became them to carry back their power

