CHAP. 5. ROMAN HISTORY. Ill

gent solicitations to write to the Tarquins. For how-

else, said they, is it possible to convince them, that

what we have to advance about a business of the highest

consequence, is not altogether a mere fiction?

These letters', which were given as a pledge of their

fidelity, discovered the whole plot. For the day before

the ambassadors were to take their departure, they hap­

pened to sup with the Vitellii, where the conspirators,

as is usual in such cases, conversed long together in pri­

vate about their new concerted plot. One of their slaves,

who before had found out what they were about, over­

heard their conversation: but he waited for that oppor­

tunity, when the letters should be delivered, which when

seized, would make a full discovery of the whole affair.

The moment he observed that the letters were delivered,

he advised the consuls, who went directly to seize the

ambassadors and conspirators together. The whole affair

was crushed without any noise. They took care in the

first place, to secure the letters, lest they should be put

out of'the way. The traitors were immediately clapt

in irons; but with respect to the ambassadors, they were

for some time at a loss. Their crime, indeed, merited

the treatment due to enemies, but a regard to the law of

nations prevailed.

CHAP. V.

The conspirators condemned and executed; and the effectf

of the Tarquins given tip to be plundered by the people.

J. HE restitution of the tyrant's effects, which the"

senate had formerly voted, came once more upon the

carpet. The fathers, exasperated as they were, would

neither suffer them to be restored, nor confiscated. They

were, therefore,. given up to be rifled by the people,

who/ after they had shared in the plunder, might, upon

no future occasion, have any hopes of a reconciliation

with the Tarquins.

A field, between the city and the Tiber, their pro­

perty, was consecrated to Mars; and ever since hath

been called, the Campus Martius. It happened, that it

was tmder corn ripe for cutting down; but as they deem­

