Chap. 8. ROMAN HISTORY. 323

w

CHAP. VIII.

Censors created..

HETHER military tribunes only, during this

year, or consuls chosen in their stead, had the manage­

ment of public affairs, it is admitted by all, that in the

next, M. Geganius Macerinus, for the second, and T.

Quinctius Capitolinus, for a fifth time, were consuls.

Under these consuls, the office of censor was instituted:*

which, though it seemed but of small importance at first,

rose in time to so great a height, that the morals and

discipline of the Romans fell under its cognizance: it

was charged with the superintendance of the senate and

centuries of the kmghts i in it was vested the right of

promotion and degradation, the disposal of all places,

public and private, and an absolute jurisdiction with

respect to the revenues of the republic.

The following circumstance gave rise to this office.

For many years, the people had never been rated, and

though the census couid be delayed no longer, by reason

of so many impending wars, it was out of the power of

the consuls to overtake it. It was observed by the se­

nate, that a matter which required so great attention, and

at the same time, below the dignity of a consul, required

a peculiar officer, to whom the clerks ought to be ac­

countable, who should have the conversation of the tax

rolls, and should prescribe the mode of taking the census.

However insignificant this office might have appeared

at first, the fathers grasped at it with joy, as it had a

tendency to increase the number of offices occupied by

their order, with a view as I imagine, and a< it really

happened, that the influence and power of those who

filled it, would soon procure authority and respect to the

office itself. The tribunes viewed4t rather in a neces­

sary, than an honourable light, of which, at that time,

it had no other appearance; and for that Teason made

no objection, that they might not seem to make opposi-

* A Censeo. This office, though at first it seemed contemp­  
tible, came at last to have so much power annexed to it, that the

emperors took it upon themselves.

