368 BOOK IV. TITUS LIVIUS'

come to an engagement, supported his line of battle

with reinforcements, or discharged any of the duties

of a good consul?—When you'saw the legions routed,

did you not, of your own accord, prevail on the ca­

valry to dismount and reinstate the battle? When

you and your followers were separated from the main

body of the army, did the consul come in person, or

send any other to your relief? Were you joined by

any reinforcement next day? Did not you and your

battalion nuke good your way to the camp, by means

of your own bravery atone? Did you find the consul

or any armv there? Was not the camp abandoned

and the wounded soldiers left in it? These question*

you are to answe/ this day, as a man of honour and a

soldier, by whose bravery alone the republic has been

saved in this w:ir. To conclude; where is C. S«n-

pronius ?—What is become of our legion*?' Did .the

consul and the army abandon you, or you them? are

we the conquerors or the vanquished?

CHAP. XLI.

Tempanius1 sensible and modest answer.

J. EMPANIUS's answer to these interrogatories, is said

to have been simple, but sensible, and in the stile of a

soldier, neither swelled with encomiums on himself, nor

enlivened with censures upon others. He said, ' That it

did not become him as a soldier, to decide with re­

spect to the military abilities of his general: It was the

business of the Roman people to have been satisfied

as to these, when at the general' election they chose

him consul. Wherefore, it was highly improper to in­

terrogate him upon the plans and designs of a comman­

der in chief, or the political virtues of a consul, points

that required experience, and the penetration of the

ablest heads to discuss; that for his own part he could

only speak what Be saw; that before he was separated

from the army, he observed the consbl fighting at the

head of his troops, encouraging the soldiers, and al­

ways in the midst of the Roman ensigns exposed to

the darts of the enemy. That afterwards he lost sight

