CHAP. 21. ROMAN HISTORY. 4SS

. • CHAP. XXI; . • \

i

Veii taken and plundered by the Soldiers.

JL HE dictator then wept out to take the auspices, and

ordered the soldiers to arm. 'O Pythian Apollo, (said

he,) it is by thy inspiration, and under thy direction,

that I am going to carry destruction to Veii; to you,

then, I devote the tenth part of the spoils. And O

queen Juno, who now residest in Veii, be pleased to

follow us victorious to our city, which shall soon be thy

city, and where thou shalt possess a temple worthy thy

majesty.' Having fmished his prayers, and his army

being sufficiently numerous, he ordered an assault to be

made on all sides of the place at once, to give the be­

sieged no opportunity of discovering their danger from

the mine. The Vejentes never dreamed that they were

betrayed by their own diviners, and given up by foreign

oracles; that some of their tutelarv gods had been invit­

ed to partake of the spoils, and others conjured to leave

their city, to take up with, new habitations and new

temples among the enemy; and, in shori, that their last

hour was come: and, therefore, feariug nothing less than

that their walls were undermined, and their citadel full

of enemies, were eager to run in emulation of each other

•to the walls, unable to guess why the Romans, who had

not appeared out of their lines for many days, advanced

all mi a sudden like madmen, to attack the place on all

skies.

A story goes here, that his majesty of Veii was, at that

instant, sacrificing to the gods, when the soldiers in the

mine heard the diviner say, that the gods would give the

victory to him who should dissect the entrails of that vic­

tim; and the Romans immediately opening the mine,

seized upon the entrails, and carried them to the dicta­

tor. But in things of so old a date, I think it sufficient

to take what is probable for true. Incidents'of this kind,

which are fitter for the stage, that dehghts in the marvel.

Ious, than for history, it is not worth while either to af­

firm or refute.

A select body of troops, which at that time filled the

wine, appeared suddenly in arms in the temple of Juno,

