CHAP. 40. ROMAN HISTORY. 461

their country, they ought not to be a burthen upon those

who were armed tor its preservation and might. soon be

in want of provisions.

.1

CHAP. XL.

T7te deep distress which ensued from this battle. < ..

N this manner did these old men, destined to death,

encourage and console each other. Then addressing

themselves to the young men, and following them all the

way to the citadel and capitol, pathetically recommended

'To their bravery, and youthful vigour, the fortune of

'what yet remained of a city, that in all its wars had

'been victorious, for three hundred and sixty years.'

But when the moment came that was to separate the

champions of the captive city from 'those who were de­

termined not to survive its ruin, deep was the distress

which that scene exhibited; and it was rendered still

more afferting by the weeping and lamentations of the

women, distractedly running they knew not whither,

from their husbands to their sons, and from their sons to

their husbands, asking now these, now those, • whose

« fate they should share.' In short, never was human

misery represented in more lively colours. A great part

of the women, however, followed their friends into the

citadel, who, though they were not invited, met with na

opposition; because, of whatever consequence it might

have bsen to the besieged, to have been freed from an

useless multitude, it was quite inconsistent with humani­

ty to shut them out. The remaining multitude, consist­

ing chiefly of the populace, too numerous to be lodged

in a fortress that stood on so small a hill, or to be main­

tained there in so great a scarcity, left the city in crowds,

and took their way in a body towards the Janiculum.

From thence, they dispersed themselves partly about the

country, and partly among the neighbouring cities, hav­

ing neither leader to conduct them, nor any concerted

scheme to follow, each of them following his own hopes

and particular views, the public interest being now given

up for lost.

In the mean time, the priests of Romulus, and the ves­

tal-, dropping all concern about their private affairs, con-

