CHAP. 12. ROMAN HISTORY. 123

whose backs they had seen more than once; and being

determined, by some great and noble adventure, to be

revenged for this disgrace, had at first resolved to pe­

netrate into the enemy's camp, without communicating

his design to any body; but then, upon reflection, he

was afraid, tliat should he go without the knowledge, or

consent of the consuls, he might be seized by the Roman

guards, and brought back as a deserter, especially at a

time when the condition of the city would justify the

accusation. He therefore goes to the senate, a.nd tells

them; " I intend, fathers, to cross the Tiber, and, if pos-

"sibie, enter the enemy's camp, not with a view of mak-

"ing reprisals, or taking revenge for their depredations

"on us. No: My design, with the assistance of the

"gods, is more noble and glorious."

He obtained the approbation of the fathers. Where­

fore, concealing a poniard below his clothes, he sets out

upon his adventure. After he had got into the enemy's

camp, he planted himself among the thickest of the

crowd, near the kino's tribunal.

It so happened, that the soldiers were then receiving

their pay; and the king's secretary sitting by him, and

dressed almost in the same-uniform, was much employed

in dispatching business,, and receiving petitions. Afraid

to ask, which of the two was Porsenna, lest his igno­

rance in that particular should betray him; as fortune

blindly directed the thrust, he stabbed the secretary, in­

stead of the king. Endeavouring to make his escape y.

from thence, he opened a passage for himself, with his '*••

bloody dagger, through the trembling crowd; when the

cry was given, the king's guards gathered about him,

and seizing him, brought him back to the royal presence;

there too, threatened with fortune on every band, with

a look that struck more terror, than it expressed fear, he

addressed the king as follows; " I am a citizen of Rome;.

my name is Cains Mucius. As an enemy, I would

have killed my enemy: nor am I less determined to

receive, than I was to give the fatal blow. A Roman

has not only spirit to act, but to suffer. Believe me,

I am not the only person you have to fear; there is a

long list after me, candidates for the same honour.

i' Wherefore, prepare for their attempt?, if you please;

