CHAP. 64. ROMAN HISTORY. 199.

The good conduct of the general, and valour of the

troops, were equally conspicuous in the war with the

Volsci.

They engaged first in a plain; the battle was bloody,

and the slaughter great on both sides, which being more

sensibly felt by the Romans, as they were less numerous,

a defeat would have followed, had not the consul, by a

well-timed fiction, inspired them with fresh courage,

crying out, that the enemy was routed in the other wing.

Wherefore, the army making a fresh attack, and believ­

ing themselves victorious, became really so. The con­

sul, afraid to push his success too far, lest they should

rally, sounded a retreat. For some days, both armies

continued so quiet, that one would have imagined they

had privately consented to a truce.

During this respite, the army of the Volsci was con­

siderably reinforced by numbers of their own country,

and that of the .3Lqui, imagining, that the Romans, the

moment they were advised of this Secession, would

march oflfin the night: impressed with this opinion, they

came before the third watch to storm the camp. Quinc-

tius having dissipated the terror occasioned by this sud-

den alarm, gave orders, that all should remain quiet in

their tents, and led out of the camp a body of the Her-

iiici fer an advanced guard; and to keep the enemy in a

constant alarm till day-light, he set the trumpeters and

blowers on the horn, on horseback, with orders to play,

from time to time, before the rampart, For the rest of

the night, every thing was so quiet in the camp, that

the Romans were sufficiently refreshed.

The appearance of a body of infantry in arms, whom

the Volsci took for Romans, superior in number to them­

selves; the noise and neighing of the horses, which, un­

accustomed to this kind of riders, and frightened with the

sound of their instruments, were very attractable, kept

the Volsci as much upon their guard, as if they had

Ijeen every moment to be attacked by the enemy.

