224 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK IV.

tion, when their only motive was the pleasure of couira-

diction. As the principat men of the state looked on

this office with contempt, Popi-nus and Serupromus were

named by the people, whose consulship, the preceding

year, was found doubtful, that the accession of this new

honour might make ihem amends for the imperfection of

the former; and from the nature of their office, they

were called censors.

D

CHAP. IX.

Distractions at Ardca. Proceedings of Gcgamus.

"URING these operations at Rome, ambassadors

came from Ardea, requesting the Romans, on account

of their most ancient friendship, and of the treaty so

lately renewed, to assist the state, now brought to the

brink of ruin by a civil war,- which totally interrupted

that peace they had very wisely kept with them. Tlie

rage of parties, it is said, was the source of these civil

dissensions, which has been of more fatal consequence

to many states than foreign wars, famine, diseases, and

plagues of whatever kind, ascribed to the anger of the

gods, as being the severest strokes that can befal a na­

tion.

Two young men had made their addresses to a voong

lady of Plebeian extraction, but extraordinary beauty.

One of the young gentlemen was her equal, and sup­

ported in his pretensions by her tutors,, who were of the

same order. The other was a nobleman, regardless of

every consideration, but the charms of his mistress. His

addresses had the countenance of the nobility, who car­

ried the spirit of party into the young lady's family.

Her mother ambitious of a title to her daughter, was

clear for the nobleman. The guardians even in this

matter, could not conceal their attachment to their own

order. When the dispute became too high to be settled

within doors, they went to law; and the judge having

heard the pleadings on the part of the guardians and the

mother, gave judgment in favour of the latter, whose

right to dispose of her child in marriage, was clearly

ascertained: but the stoutest arm prevailed. For, the

