CHAP. 15. ROMAN HISTORY. 127

the camp were sold, to prevent the people from break­

ing in to rifle them, and that tiiey were called the goods

of 1'orsenna, rather in compliment to his generosity, than

that his property was exposed to veudae, which the Ro­

mans had never in their power.

The war with Rome being thus laid aside, that his

army might not seem to- have been led mto tiie>e coun­

tries for nothing, Porsenna sent his son Arurt-, with a:

detachment of it, to lay siege to Aricia. At first, the

Aricians were struck with this unexpected invasion; but

afterwards, having procured assistance from the people

of Latium ami Curnae, they thought themselves .suffici­

ently strong to venture a battle. Then the Etrurtans

changed with such prodigious fury, that the Aricians im­

mediately gave way; but the Oitman cohorts opposed

good generalship to force. They fell back for a little,

and after the enemy had passed them in great disorder,

turned and charged them in the reap

Thus were the Etrurians, though they had almost a

complete victory, surrounded and cut to pieces. A part

of them, by far the least, having lost their general, and

having no nearer safe retreat, came to Rome, without

therr arm?, in circumstances and a condition not to be

envied. There they met with a kind reception, aifd were

hospitably entertained. When their wounds Were cured,

some of them went home, where they made honourable

mention of the civilities they had met with at Rome.

Many of them out of regard to their hosts, and attach­

ment to the city, staid at Rome, where ground was as­

signed them to build upon, ever since called the Tuscan

street.

CHAP. XV.

Porsenna sent an embassy to Rome.

X\.FTER. this, P. Lucretius, and P. Valerius Publico-

la, were made consuls for the third time. That year,

Porsenna sent an embassy to Rome, to treat of a restora­

tion of the Tarquins, for the last time; by whom, though

they could have returned an answer, the senate chose to

send ambassadors to the king, and immediately the most

