CW 45. ROMAN HISTORY. 467

'sequence, they carry with, them more terror than

'force to the battle. Can there be a stronger proof than

* their victory over the Romans? The city was open to  
'.them when they took it. From the citadel and capifol

'. they have been repelled by a handful of men. Now

* wearied out with the length of the blockade, they

* abandon it, and disperse themselves all over the coun-  
'try; glutted with meat and drink, which they.greedily

'devour, as soon as night conies oh, they ly down like

'beasts along the sides of rivers, without intrenchments,

'guards, or sentinels; and their late success serves only

* to augment their usual negligence. If, therefore, you  
« would defend your walls, and prevent this whole coun-

'try from falling into the hands of these barbarians, arm

'by midnight, and follow me, not to a battle, but to

'a certain slaughter. If I deliver them not into your

« hands, fast asleep, to be butchered at your pleasure,

*, like so many beasts, I consent to he treated at Ardea,  
f as I have been at Rome.' -• . .'

CHAR XLV.

A parly of the Gauls surprised, by Camillus. Tlie Soldiers

at Veii surprise the Tuscans. ,.

JtLVERY body, whether well or ill affected.to Camillus,

was fully convinced that he was the greatest captain of

his time; so that after the assembly broke up, they took

the necessary refreshment, and set themselves to watch,

where the signal should be given,, when Camillus, after

al) was dark and sileaf, found them ready at the gates,

and put himself at their head. When they had gone

a little out of town tiiey foinyl the camp of the Gauls

open and unguarded on all sides, jus', as he had told them

would be the case; and attacked \t with prodigious shouts.

There was no fighting, but a terribleslaughter everywhere.

Naked as they were born, and fast asleep, they were all

butchered without resistance. Those that lay at the

greatest distance slatted up in a fright, and being totally

ignorant whence or by whom they, were attacked, some

took to their heels,- whilst others threw themselves inad­

vertently into the enemy's way. A great part of them

: ,-v i-H.-:!' -,. -: .(•-•* ,• '': •- -< --. - /•

