CHAP. t.' ROMAN HISTORY. 415

CHAP. IX.

Suspension of the old, and election of new Magistrates.

JL HE" principal of the senate were of opinion, that they

ought not to wait tor the usual time of etections, but in­

stantly proceed to the election' of new military tribunes,

who should enter upon office on the first of October.

The opinion met with general approbation; nor did the

other military tribunes make the leas.t objection. But Ser-

gius and Virginius, on whose account alone, it wasevident

the senate were displeased with that year's magistrates,

first intreated that they might not be disgraced, and at

last entered a protest against the decree of the senate,

declaring they would not quit their office till the thir­

teenth of December, the usual time for the election of new

magistrates. ,

During these disputes, the tribunes of the people, who,

much against their inclination, bad been quiet, whilst

harmony prevailed, and the affairs of the republic were

in a prosperous train; began all of a sudden to assume

an imperious tone, and threatened the military tribunes

with instant imprisonment, if they did not obey the or­

ders of the senate. Then C. Scrvilius Ahala, tribune of

the soldiers, addressing himself to the tribunes: ' As to

you and your menaces/ said he, ' I should not be dis­

pleased with an opportunity of proving, that you have

not more courage to execute, than right to threaten.

But the decrees of the senate must be obeyed. Where­

fore, tribunes, let us have no more of your interfering

in our disputes, to make that a pretence for doing in­

justice; and my colleagues shall submit themselves to

the pleasure of the senate, or if they should persist in

being refractory, I shall instantly name a dictator, who

will know how to oblige them to quit their office.*

This discourse was applauded by the whole assembly,

the senators being very much pleased, that a more cer­

tain and consistent method was found out for keeping

magistrates in order, than the thunder of the tribunitian

power. Sergius and Virginius being thus reduced to

obedience, the military tribunes, with common consent,

held the Comitia, and elected successors, who were to

