«2 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK V,

.. -. ,

sharing in the plunder of \Vii, might repair to the dicta­

tor's camp. The other was the opinion of Ap. Claudius,

who spoke warmly against this bounty, as being an un­

precedented prodigality, and inconsistent with equity ami

sound policy. That if it was not judged proper, thai the

money taken from the enemy should be lodged in the

treasury, exhausted as it was by so many wars, he would

advise, that it should be appropriated to the payment of

the soldiers, which would be an ease to the people, in re*

gard to the taxes. That thereby every family would be

equally sensible of the benefit of this largess, and the

rapacious hands of idle citizens would not deprive the

soldiers of the rewards so justly doe to their labour, it be­

ing usually observed, that the bravest and most forward

in battle, were the least active and expert at plundering.

Liciniu;, on the other hand, insisted, that the money

*o reserved and appropriated, would be a source of end­  
less discontent, and occasion impeachments, and seditions,

and new laws. 'It was better, therefore,' pursued he,

to conciliate to the senate; the good will of the multi­

tude, by a bounty which would relieve their present

indigence, exhausted as they were, by the contributions

of so many years; and make them sensibl<: of the fruits

•tof persevering in a war, in Which they might almost

be said to have grown old. That what each man should

take with his own hand from the enemy, and bring

home, would give him more pleasure and satisfaction

than a gift of much greater value, at the pleasure of

another. That the dictator, in referring the matter to

the senate, had no other view on earth, but to spare

himself envy and reproach. That the senaie also ought,

from a like regard to themselves, to refer the whole to

the disposal of the people, and suffer them to take the

plunder, as chance should throw it in their way.' This

advice, which was the most popular for the senate, ap­

peared to be the safest: wherefore, proclamation was

made, that such as wanted to share in the plunder. of

Veii, had only to repair to the camp, which, in conse­

quence, was soon filled with prodigious numbers that

flocked thither.

