4d TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK I.

wife Egeria might meet in sweet council together. To

the goddess Faith, he also instituted an annual festival,

To that solemnity he ordered the priests to be carried

in an arched chariot, drawn by two horses, having their

hands, during the service, muffled up to the fmgers; im­

porting that Faith ought to be protected, and her seat

made sacred, even in thex right hands of men. He insti­

tuted many other sacrifices, and places where they were

to be offered, which the priests call Argei* But nothing

showed him greater in his political abilities, or patriot

virtues, than his address in preserving the honour of the

crown, as well as the peace of the kingdom, during the

whole course of his reign. Thus two successive kings

improved and enlarged the state by different maxims,

the one,by force of arms, and the other by the arts of

peace. /"Romulus rigned thirty-seven, and Numa forty-

three years; during which, the state had not only ac­

quired vigour, but a firmness of constitution, by warlike

exercises, and wise- regulations. "*>

CHAP. XXII.

Tullus Hestilius succeeds Numa, and makes war •with the

Albans.

PON the death of Numa, the administration once

more returned to an interregnum. Then Tullus Hos-

tilius, the grandson of that Hostilius who distinguished

himself so nobly in the action with the Sabines, at the

foot of the citadel, was declared king by the people,

and the fathers confirmed their choice. Tullus was so

far from resembling his predecessor Numa, that his

turn for war was even stronger than that of Romulus;

his youth, his vigour, and his grandfather's glory, serv­

ing as so many spurs to his native valour. Moreover,

he thought the citizens, with respect to arms, had con­

tracted a rust through dissuetude; and therefore was

casting about on all sides for an object on which he

might employ his arms. Very opportunely for his views,

it happened that the Roman and Alban peasants had

made mutual encroachments and reprisals on each other.

* From ArgUi, Greeks.

