CHAP. 24. ROMAN HISTORY. 139

rest from making their appearance, either in the senate-

house, or forum. The thmness of the house prevented

them from entering upon business. This circumstance

was only considered by,the mob, as an evasion to gain

time. They exclaimed, that the senators had absented

themselves not from fear, nor any accidental cause, but

from design to elude their demand. That the consuls

themselves only trifled with them, and it was too evidentr

that they only insulted their miseries.

To so great a height did the ?edition rise, that the

respect due to consular authority, could hardly restrain

the violence of the mutineers. At tength, however, the

fathers, persuaded that it would be full as dangerous to

stay at home, as to appear, came to the senate-house:

but though by this time the house was full, the members

were far from being unanimous; nay, the consuls them­

selves were divided in their sentiments. Appius, a man

of a violent temper, was of opinion, that this insurrec­

tion should be suppressed by the authority of the con­

suls; and that if one or two of them were seized, the

rest would be quiet of course. Serviiius, who was more

moderate, gave it as his opinion, that whilst the people

were in this ferment, it would not oniy be easier, but a

much safer measure, to bend, than to break them. But

amidst these debates and deliberations, something stilt

more alarming occurred.

CHAP. XXIV.

War with the Volsci.

V^OURIERS came post from Latium, with the disa­

greeable advice that the Volsci had taken the field with

a numerous army, and were in full march to lay siege

to the city; which intelligence, so much had those in­

testine broils divided the city, produced very different

effects in the senate, and among the people. The po­

pulace exulted with joy, crying out that the gods were

coming to avenge the pride of the fathers. They ex­

horted each other, not to give in their names for the war;

if they must go to perdition, let it be in company with

ill the orders of the state, and not by themselves.—That

