182 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK II.

and the more they were pressed by the enemy, they were

obliged to contract their own circle in proportion; which

at once discovered their weakness, and the enemy's vast

superiority in point of numbers, when their ranks were

crowded into so narrow a space. Then giving over an

attack, which they made with equal vigour on all sides,

they directed all their force to one point. Thither, draw­

ing up in a wedge, by the weight of their bodies, and

the points of their swords they opened a passage for

themselves, that led by an easy ascent to the side of a

hill, where they first halted.

As soon as the advantage of the ground had given

them leisure to respire, and recover from the shock of so

great a surprise, they beat back the assailants; and by

the convenience of their post, small as their party was,

were getting the better of them, when the Vejentes, by

fetching a compass, possessed themselves of the top of

the hill. Thus the enemy became again superior. The

Fabii were all killed to a man, and the fort taken. It is

universally admitted that three hundred and six fell

there; and, that there only remained a youth of about

fourteen years of age, as a stock to the Fabian family,

which in future times, was to be the prop and stay of

the Roman people, both by their counsel and their sword,

upon the most trying occasions.

. CHAP. LI.

The Vejentes punished.

J. HIS disaster happened in the consulship of C. Ho-

ratius and T. Menenius. The latter was immediately

dispatched to chastise the insolence of the Etrurians,

which their .victory had created; but he was defeated,

and the Janiculum taken. Moreover, as the city was in

want of provisions, and the Etrurians already on this

side the Tiber, the city would certainly have undergone

a siege, had not the consul Horatius been recalled from

the expedition against the Volsci. So close to the walls

of Rome was this war brought, that the first battle was

fought at the temple of Hope, with no advantage on

. , either side, and the second at the gate there: although

