CHAP. 41. ROMAN HISTORY. . 165

C. Aquilins. The province of the Volsci fell to Sicinius;

and the Hernici, who were also in motion, fell to Aqui-

-lius. The Hcmici were this year defeated j and with the  
Volsci, the Romans had a drawn- battle.

CHAP. XLI.

• .

Cassius condemned for affecting Popularity,

Jl HEN Spurius Cassius, and Proculus Virginius, were

made consuls: a treaty was concluded with the Hernici,

by which they ceded two thirds of their lands, one of

which the consul intended to divide among the Latins,

and the other among the commons. To this act of ge­

nerosity, he added some ground unjustly held by private

persons to the prejudice of the public. Many of the fa­

thers, who were themselves possessors of these lands,

were alarmed at their proceeding, thinking their property

was in danger. And the senate was under no less con­

cern for the public safety, being apprehensive that the

consul by his liberality, aimed at a power which would

be dangerous to their liberty. It was then that the

Agrarian law was first mentioned, which, from that day

to this, whenever it came to be the subject of debate, ne­

ver failed to raise great commotions in the state.

The other consul opposed the division, and was.sup-­

ported by the senate and some of the people. At first

they had begun to consider it as no great compliment,

when their allies were to share equally with them; and

then they listened with great attention to Virginius, when

he often prophesied in their assemblies, "That his col-

"league's liberality had a most pernicious tendency:

-" That whoever should be tempted with these lands,  
"would find that they were given them in exchange for

"their liberty: That the very intention of them was to

"pave the way for regal power: which was pretty evi-

"dent from the scheme of division, in which the allies,

"and LStin nations, are admitted to a share of the spoil.

"For what purpose was a third part of the conquered

il~ lands restored to the Hernici, who but lately had ap-

"peared in arms against them, but that these nations

"might have Cassius at their head instead of Coriolanus?"

