CHAP. 24, - ROMAN HISTORY." 2S>

•

their arms, and such provisions as were ready dressed.

Cornelius, the oilier consul, sent them provisions from

Rome.

The campaign before Tusculum lasted several months.

With part of th'e army, Fabius invested the enemy's

camp, having dispatched the rest to assist the Tusculans

in the recovery of their citadel, which was deemed im­

pregnable by any force. Famine, however, at last

obliged the enemy to abandon it, who being reduced to

the last extremity, were, by the Tusculans, obliged to

pass naked and unarmed under the yoke. The Roman

consul pursued them in their shameful flight, and com­

ing up with them at the Algidus, put every one of them.

to the sword.

The victorious consul led back his army to Columen,

for so was the place called, where he encamped. Cornelius

likewise, now that the city was'in no danger, the enemy

being defeated, marched out of Rome with his army:

and the two consuls entering the enemy's territories, in

two different divisions, contended who should do the

greatest execution, the one in the country of the Volsci, •

and the other in that of the ^Eqiii. Most authors seem

positive, that the Antiates revolted this year, and that

they were reduced by L. Cornelius, who took their town.

Bat I do not choose to mention it for a truth, as the

more ancient historians are silent with respect to it.

CHAP. XXIV.

Volscius impeached for perjury. The Census finished.

J. HIS war being over, a contention with the tribune*

at home, discomposed the fathers. They exclaimed,

that the army was kept in the field by artful manbeuvres,

with a view to stave off the bill; and declared, that no­

thing should hinder them from going through with what

they had undertaken. Nevertheless, Lucretius, prefect

of the city, prevailed with them to defer the business till

the arrival of the consuls.

There arose likewise, a new ground of contention:

A. Cornelius and G. Serviiius, who were at that time

quaestors, appointed M. Volscius a day to stand trial, for

