CHAP. 3O. ROMAN HISTORY. 447

by the advice of the senate, trusting to their promised

protection.

• * - . •'.''

CHAP. XXX.

Disputes about settling at Veit. The Fathers prevail.

JjY haranguing openly to this purpose, he daily incens­

ed the people against him' more and more. As to the

law in question, he never ceased to spirit up the fathers

against it: telling them, 'That they ought not to go

down to the forum upon the day when the law was to

be proposed, but as to a field of battle, where they

should remember, they were to fight for their altars;

their fire-sides, the temples of their gods, and the place

which had given them birth. That with regard to him­

self, considered in a private Capacity, could he allovr

himself to think of his own glory, when that of his

country came in competition, riothirig could flatter iiis

ambition more, than to see a city, which he had re­

duced, filled with inhabitants, wlio could be so many.

living witnesses of his glory, and constantly present to,

him the monuments of his viplftry, where nobody could

move a step but on the. t-race^, pf hisiatchievemgnts.

• But it was impious to conceive thoughts of inhabiting

a city, forsaken and abandoned b'y the immortal gpds,

and shameful to propose, that the Roman people should

reside on a captive soil, and prefer to their pwij.ceun-.

try, a country conquered by it.'

, .The senators old and young, roused with, these e^hpr-

tations of-their champion, when the law was to be pro­

posed, went all in a body to the forum, and dispersing

themselves among the tribes, each addressed himself to

their fellow citizens of his own tribe, and began to beg,

with tears in their eyes, that they would not abandon that

country, for which they and their fathers had fought

\vith so much valour and success; pointing, at the same

time to the capitol, the temple of Vesta, and other temples

around them, conjuring them not to drive t|ie Roman

people, like felons and exiles, from their native country'

and their guardian gods; to Inhabit a city but lately

peopled by their enemies, and bring matters to that pass,

