570 TITUS UVHIS* BOOK IV.

tor, he was acquitted by all the tribes. The memory of

his venerable father Cincinnatus, is said to have been of

great use to him on this occasion, and the intercession of

Capitolinus Quiuctius, now spent with years, who in-

treated the people, in the m«st humble manner, that

now when his life was so near a close, they would not

make him the messenger of news so very distressing to

Cincinnatus.

CHAP. XLII.

Generous conduct of the four Tribunes, with respect a

Seaipronius.

SEX. TEMPANIUS, A. Selling, L. Antistius, Sex.

Pompilius, in their absence, were elected tribunes by

the people. The three last, the horse had chosen for

their centurions, by the advice of Tempanius. The senate

finding, that the name of consul, out of odium to Seru-

pronius, gave offence, ordered military tribunes, with

consular power, 10 be created; in consequence of which,

the choice fell upon L. Maulius Capitolinus, (1. Antonius

Merenda, and L. Papirius Mugillanus. In the begin­

ning of the year, L. Hortensius, one of the tribunes,

cite: Sempronius, the late consul to take his trial; and

'when four of his colleagues conjured him, in presence of

the Roman people, not to harrass their general, who was

innocent, and could be reproached with nothing but bis

ill fortune; Hortensius took it amiss, imagining they

only meant to try his resolution, as the delinquent rather

depended on the assistance, than -the mediation of the

tribunes, which was intended only for show: wherefore,

turning immediately to Sempronius, he asked him, • What

was become of his Patrician spirit, and that confidence

with which a consciousness of innocence would inspire

him, when he, a consul took shelter under the shadow

of the tribunes?' Then turning to his colleagues: • But

if I should persist in my prosecution of this delinquent,

what part will you act? Will you rob the people of

their judicative privileges, and overturn the power of

the iribunes?' They replied, that the Roman people

had indisputably a supreme authority over Seraprooni*

