CHAP. 02. ROMAN HISTORY. 293

'•' tion? Why were they afraid of a general battle, which

"would at cuice decide the controversy?"

CHAP. LXII.

Battle with the Sabines.

.l HE Romans had by this time sufficiently recovered

their coprage, and they were now fired with indignation.

What! said they, shall the other army return with lau­

rels to the city, whilst we are perpetually abused- and in­

sulted by the enemy? If ever we shall be a match for

our enemies,—it is now. The consul perceiving these

murmurings of the soldiers in the camp, he called an as­

sembly, and addressed them to the following effect:

** 1 suppose, soldiers, you have heard of the battle at  
the Algidus, where the behaviour of the army has

been such, as became the sons of liberty. The mas­

terly conduct of my colleague, and the noble exertions

of the troops under his command, have obtained a

complete victory. With respect to me, I shall take

such measures, and pursue such plan of operation, as

shall appear most agreeable to you. We have it in

our power, to protract the war with advantage, or to

finish it immediately. If the war must be protracted,

I will follow the same plan 1 adopted in the begin­

ning, for increasing youi- hopes and confirming your

valour.' If you think that sufficiently done already,

as a sign of your inclination" and bravery, raise such a

shout, as you would do, were you instantly to make

«. an attack.'"

The soldiers, with great cheerfulness, set up a terrible

shout, when he assured them," He would comply with

"their wishes, and lead them to battle next day, which

"he prayed miglit be auspicious." They spent the rest

of that day in preparing their arms. Next morning, the

Sabines , who were no less eager to engage, the moment

they perceived the Roman army drawn up in order of

battle, marched out likewise. The exertions on both

sides were such, as might be expected of two armies con­

fident of victory, the one animated with theirancientand

perpetual glory, and the othtr flushed with their recent

