CIiAfe.4U ROMAN HISTORY. . 261

"they had matters of the greatest consequence before

"them, that considerations less weighty should be post­

poned, till these be once discussed. With respect to

the charge brought against the decemvirs by Valerius

and Horatius, that their authority had expired on the

ides of May; he was of opinion, that the moment the

wars with which they were threatened should be

brought to a conclusion, and peace once more restored

to the republic, the senate should take the matter un­

der consideration; whilst Appius in the mean time

should be preparing for his defence, being sensible he

must answer for those comitia, which in his first de-

cemvirate he had held for the election of new decem­

virs, that the senate might judge with precision, whe­

ther their office was to continue for one year only, or

till such |aw' as .were then wanted, should be com­

pleted At present it was his own opinion, that the

war was the only object they ought to have in view.

If they thought themselves imposed on by a false

alarm, both by the-messengers and Tusculan deputies,

it was their bussiess to come at the certaisty, by send- -

ing out scouts to make the -strictest enquiry. But if

they saw no reason to treat with diffidence the intel­

ligence they had received, a moment should not be

lost in levying the army, which the decemvirs should

lead out against the enemy, where they might see

proper; and previously to all other things, this ought

to be done."

CHAP. XLI.

The Decemvirs carry the point for the present.' .

J. HE young Patricians supported this opinion with all

their might, and it passed by a plurality of voices. Va­

lerius and Horatius then rose a second time with greater

warmth than ever, crying aloud, " That they wanted to

"-•speak relative to the state of the Republic; declaring,

"at the same time, that if the power of faction should

"compel them to silence in the senate, they would im-

"mediately go out and address themselves to the peo-

"pie. That private persons had no power to shut their

"mouths either in the senate, or an assembly of the peo­

