. 28. ROMAN HISTORY. 443

annihilation with theVejeotes, to an accommodation with

tbe Capenatesi were unanimously determined to sue for

peace. Nothing was talked of in the forum, or senate-

house, but the virtue of the Romans, and the probity of

their general; and accordingly, with one consent, am*

bassadors were dispatched to the camp to Camillus, and

by his permissioni to the senate at Rome, to surrender

Falerii.

When they had leave of audience, it is said, they ad­

dressed the senate in the following terms: Illustrious

'fathers, conquered by you, and your general, in a

* manner that can give no offence to gods, nor men, we  
'are-come to surrender ourselves to you, convinced that

* we shall live more happy under your government, than  
'under our own laws, a circumstance that reflects a pe-

'culiar honour on the conqueror. The event of this

* war furnishes mankind with two excellent examples^

* You, fathers, have preferred justice in war, to imme-

* diate conquest: and we,'excited by that justice, do vo-  
'luntarily present you the victory. We are now en-

'tirelv yours. Send commissioners to receive our arms,

'our hostages, our city, the gates of which stand open

'to you: You will have no reason to complain of our

'fidelity, nor we to regret our present submission.' Ca-

millus luul both the thanks of the enemy and of his

country. To exempt the people from taxes, a year's

pay to tte army was exacted from the Falisci; and peace

being granted them on these terms, the army returned

home.

CHAP. XXVIII.

War with the jEqui: various successes.

JL HE applauses now given to Camillus upon his re­

turn to Rome, and the conquest he had made over the

. epemy by his justice and integrity, were far more sin­

cere, than those lie had formerly received, when .the

white horses drew his triumphal chariot through the

city. The senate made honourable mention of his mo*

desty, and in order to.discharge his vow with all possible

dispatch, L. Valerius, L. Sergius, and A. Manlius, were

deputed to carry a golden cup to Delphos, as a present

