CHAP. 43. ROMAN HISTORY. 465

CHAP. XLIII.

The Gauk disappointed. Turn the siege into a blockade.

Cumillus at Ardea.

JL HE Gauls, on their side, who for some days had car­

ried on an ineffectual war against the houses, and seeing

nothing now remaining of the captive city, after the

Humes and ruins, but the enemy still in arms, neither

terrified with so many calamities, nor in the least dis­

posed to surrender, unless compelled, resolved to make

the last experiment, and attack the citadel in form. Hav­

ing, therefore, given the signal, by the morning's dawn,

they drew up their whole army in the forum? after

which, they advanced to the hill with great cries, co­

vering their heads with their shields, in the form of

tortoises. The Romans, without trouble or confusion,

having posted guards on all the avenues, and disposed

their best troops against the attack, suffered the enemy

to ascend, concluding that the higher they advanced, the

more easy it would be to drive them down the steep de­

clivity. Accordingly, they stopped short in the middle

of the descent,' and having the advantage of an emi­

nence, which seemed to be calculated by nature for an­

noying the enemy, they fell upon the Gauls with great

impetuosity, and drove them back tumbling one above

another, with such slaughter, as prevented them from

making a second attempt,. either with detachments, or the

whole of their army.

WJierefoix-, finding it impracticable to carry the city

by assault, they turned their seige into a blockade. This

had never come into their heads-before, for all the corn in

the city had perished in the general conflagration, and

the Romans took care to carry all that could be found in

the country into Veii. Wherefore, the Gauls having

divided their army, employed part of them to forage in

the neighbourhood, whilst the rest remained to contmue

the blockade, trusting for provisions to the'rr foraging

parties.

In their excursions, they found an opportunity of put­

ting the Roman bravery to the test. For, chance fed

