CHAP. 5. ROMAN HISTORY. .21

home the children to his cot, to be nursed by his wife

Laurentia. Some contend that this same Laurentia, was

called Lupa among the shepherds, on account of her

easy virtue, and that the miraculous story took its rise

from that circumstance.

The children being thus born, and thus brought up,

did not loiter about the folds, nor tend the flocks, even

when they were yet young, but roamed and hunted in

the forests; by which exercise, having acquired strength,

and .courage, they not only encountered witd beasts, but

attacked bands of robbers, loaded with plunder; and

divided the spoil amongst the shepherds. Their corps

becoming more numerous every day, they now began

to keep festivals, and have rural sports together.

I

CHAP. V. AmuIiiM killed.

T is asserted, that at this very time, the festival of

the Lupercalia* was solemnized on mount Palatine,

which, from Pallantium, a city of Arcadia, was first

called Pallantiuro, and afterwards Palatium.—That there

Evander, descended of these Arcadians, who,for many

ages before, had been in possession of that country, had

instituted that festival brought with him from Arcadia.

It was to be solemnized by young men, who were to run

naked, making every attitude expressive of mirth and

humour, in honour of Pan Lyceus-f; to whom after­

wards the Romans gave the name of Innus.—That the

robbers having learned when this festival was to be so­

lemnized, and irritated for the loss of their plunder, lay

in wait for them while engaged in these sports. Romu­

lus by the gallantry of his defence, got clear off, but Re­

mus fell into their hands, and was delivered to km**

Amulius, loaded with accusations attested bv themselves.

* Two goats and a dog were sacrificed; and the foreheads of  
two young men of quality were touched with the bloody knife,

whitst others wiped oft'the blood with woot dipt in mitk. The

goats skins were cut in thongs, with which the young men struck

all they met, particularly young married women, who believed

that such strokes contributed to easy conception and delivery.

f A sirname given to Pan, because it was thought he "protected

the flocks from the wolvw.

