CHAP. 3. ROMAN HISTORY. 109

ing, and sonffitimes advising him to suffer himself to be

prevailed upon, by the united wishes of his country. He

then began to consider, that after he should be returned

to the condition of a private citizen, he might be obliged

to leave the city, his estate might be confiscated, and be­

sides, he might receive some other mark of disgrace;

wherefore, he resigned the consulship, and having con­

veyed all his effects to Lavinium, he retired from Rome.

Brutus, by a decree of the senate, moved to the

people, that all the family of the Tarquins should be

banished: and in an assembly by centuries, he got Pub-

lius Valerius, who had assisted him in expelling the

Tarquins, to be chosen his colleague.

CHAP. III.

Deputies from the Tarquins arrive at Rome.

.ALTHOUGH nobody doubted that the Tarquins

would have recourse to arms, yet that happened not so

soon as was generally expected: The Romans were on

the point, however, of losing their liberty by deceitful

and treasonable practices, of which they had never en­

tertained a suspicion.

Among the Roman youth, there were some of illus­

trious families, who, during the late reign had pursued

their pleasures without restraint; and being much about

the same age, and much in company with the young

Tarquins, were accustomed to take all the liberties com­

mon to princes. Wishing still to live in the same licetv

tious stile, although now every citizen was upon the same

footing, they complained to one another, that whatever

liberty other men enjoyed, they saw nothing for them­

selves but slavery. "A king, continued they, is a man;

—from whom you may obtain justice; and in case of

need, you may have indulgence too. Here there is a

plea for interest and favour. A king can both show

his resentment and 'his clemency, and distinguish a

friend from a foe. But the laws, always deaf and in-

"exorable, are better calculated for the poor than the

"rich! only once transgress them, and you will find,

"that neither indulgence nor pardon is competent.

F

