410 , . TITUS LIV1US'- BOOK V.

had forgot, it was nbt in the shade, nor under the roof,

that their ancestors had established the tribunitian

power. These are sentiments worthy your soldiers,

worthy of the Roman name: not to have a view onlv

to the siege of Veii, nor to the war we are carryingon

at present, but to regard the establishment of our repu­

tation, for other wars, and other enemies, in time to

come. Do you think that a judgment will not be

formed of us from our behaviour on this occasion? And

that it is a matter of indifference, whether the neigh­

bouring nations have reason to conclude, that if a city

can only sustain the first ardour of the Romans, which

is of no long duration, there would be nothing more to

fear? Will it not establish the terror of the Roman

name, when it is remarked, that neither the long con­

tinuance of a tedious siege, nor the rigours of winter,

can induce a Roman army to give up a place they

have once invested ; that they have not yet learned to

put an end to a v7ar, in any other way, than by vic­

tory ; and that they value themselves as much upon

their perseverance, as their impetuosity, in their at­

tacks.? Perseverance is necessary in every kind of war

whatever, but in sieges indispensably so ; because most

cities are rendered impregnable by fortifications and

their natural situation, they require time, and to be in

want of the necessaries of life, to compel them to a

surrender. This will be the case with Veii, if the tri­

bunes of the people go not over to the side of the ene­

my, and give the Vejentes that assistance at Reme,

which they look for in vain in Etruria. Could any

thing have happened more to the wishes of the Vejen-

tes, than to see Rome first, and then the camp, having

catched the infection, torn in pieces bv divisions? Such,

at the same time, upon honour, is the firmness of the

Vejentes, that not even the pressures of a lon^ siege,

nor the burthen of a new king, have brought about

the least disturbance among them. The refusal of aid

from Etruria has not excited them to mutiny. To at­

tempt a sedition there, would be punished with imme­

diate death; no man dares mutter there, whai yjw speak

out with impunity. Whoever deserts his colours, or

abandons his post, is sure of the bastinado. But here,

they who advise, not one or two "soldiers, but whole

