CHAP. 61. ROMAN HISTORY. 399

might wink at this innovation, those who bad already

served out their time, would never consent, that the-

condition of their successors should be better than

theirs had been; or, that they who had already served

their country at their own charge, should be saddled

with a tax for the 'support of others.' Such speeches

left an impression with some, and the tribunes proclaim­

ed, that they were ready to assist all those who were

disposed to stand out against the tax for the pay of the

soldiers. .' .

The fathers, however, were determined to persevere

• in supporting so laudable an undertaking, and were the

first to pay in their contributions: and because they had

as yet no silver coin, some sent carriages loaded with

brass to the treasury, which gave their contingents a

magnificent appearance. When the senators had paid

in their respective quotas, with the utmost impartiality,

agreeable to their valuations, the principal Plebeians,

who were in friendship with the nobility, as had been

concerted, began to pay in their assessments; and when

the lower Plebeians observed how much they were com­

mended by the senators, and respected as good citizens

by the soldiers, all at once despising the assistance of the

tribunes, he was the best man who paid first. The bill

was now passed for declaring war against the Vejentes;

and the new military tribunes- led an army against Veii,

the greatest part of which consisted of volunteers.

CHAP. LXI.

Artena taken, the Fort having been betrayed by a slope.

J. HE'military tribunes this year, were T. Qumctius

Capitolinus, P. Quinctius Cincinnatus, C. Julius Julus, a

second time, A. Manlius, L. Furios Medullimis.'a second

time, and Manius ^EmiliusMamercinus, who first invest-

ed Veii. About the commencement of this siege, the

states of Etruria held a general council at the temple

of Voltumna, to consider whether they should make the

siege of Veii a common cause, but it does not .appear

that they came to any resolution The siege, in the

year following, was carried on with still less vigour than

at first, part of the tribunes and the armies they com­

manded, having been called off to a war with the Volsci.

