226 TITUS LIVIUS' Book III.

might soon arrive according to concert, followed by those

of the /Equi and Volsci, the eternal enemies of Rome;

who would not come to ravage the country as formerly,

but to take possession of a city, already half taken.

Among so many causes of distrust, their principal terror

was with respect to the slaves, no man knowing but he

had an enemy in his house, in whom they neither could

safely contide, having no assurance of their fidelity, nor

seem to distrust, for fear of making them enemies. Such

was their embarrassment, that they did not imagine that

a thorough reconciliation between the orders, would be

sufficient to save the state. However, among all the ca­

lamities that threatened them, they had not the least ap­

prehension of danger from the people or their magis­

trates. Their domestic dissensions they considered as

evils of a gentle kind, being ever the consequences of.

freedom from all other calamities, and for the present

seemed to be absorbed in this foreign alarm. However,

it was this that bore heaviest upon them, when totter­

ing this under the pressure of other troubles. The

phrenzy of the tribunes rose so high, that they insisted

the war was a mere bugbear,-'—that the capitol had been

seized with no other view than to make them forget the

bill: but were it once passed, they would see those cli­

ents and creatures of the Patricians, finding all their

riotous exertions to obstruct it ineffectual, steal away hi

as great silence as they entered. Then calling the peo­

ple from their arms, they held an assembly to pass the

law. In the mean time, the consuls convened the senate,

more afraid of the tribunes than of the enemy, who bad

alarmed them in the night.

CHAP. XVH.

Animated speech of Valerius. Obstinacy of the Tribunes.

VA' HEN word was brought that the people had laid

down their arms, and quitted their posts, Publius Vale­

rius, leaving his colleague to keep the senate together,

left the senate-house in a great hurry, and flew to the

temple to the tribunes. "What is the meaning of this,

"said he,) tribunes? Will nothing less serve you than

