159 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK IL

pronius, corn was imported, in considerable quantities,

from Sicilv, and there was a debate in the senate about

the price at which it should be retailed. Many were

of opinion that they had now a fair opportunity of

bumbling the commons, and recovering these rights,

which by their secession and violence, they had extorted

from the senate. Marcius Coriolanus, who was a de­

clared enemy of the tribunitian power, insisted, " That

"if they would have provisions on the old footing, it

"were but just they restored the senate its ancient rights.

"Shall I, as if reduced to a state of slavery, and ransom-

**, ed from robbers, tamely behold these Plebeian ma-  
"gistrates?'Why do I see a Sicinius over my head?

*'* And must I bear these indignities longer than there is  
"any necessity? Must I, to whom the pride of a king

"Tarquin'was so intolerable, put up with the insolence

"of Sicinius? Let him secede now with the people at

"his back, to the sacred mount, or'any other hill the

"way lies open. Let them seize upon our corn in the

"fields, as they did three years ago. Let them enjoy

"now the fruits of their revolt. I can venture to affirm,

"that this calamity has conveyed to them such salutary

"instruction, that they would rather chuse to apply

"themselves to agriculture, than to arms, by means of a

"new secession to interrupt it." It is hard to say,

whether his plan ought to have been adopted, though jt

seems pretty evident, that the senate, by reducing the

price of provisions, might have ,rid themselves of the

Tribunitian power, and all other popular laws that had

been imposed on them.

... CHAP. XXXV.

Coriolanus condemned;—retires among the Volsci.

•J[ HIS speech was even considered by the senate as

too severe; and it so exasperated the commons, that they

were on the point of taking up arms. "We are now,"

they -cried, " to be attacked with famine, like enemies;

"we are to be deprived of every means of subsistence.

"The ibreign corn, the only resource that fortune offer-

"ed us, and ,so unexpectedly too, is to be snatched from

