312 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK IV.

'failed to procure Iionourand respect to all and sundries,

'its authors and abettors. That they might look back

'upon the majesty of the senate, when they received

'it from their fathers, and compare it with the state in

'which they were like to transmit it to iheir children:

'they would then see, whether they had reason to boast

'with the people, that their privileges were exceedingly

'improved and enlarged. That the same evils would

* constantly prevail, whilst sedition carried all before it,  
'and its authors so highly distinguished. What a de-

* testable project is this, which C. Canuleins has attempt-  
'ed? He is for mingling the blood *of the nobles, with

'the scurn of the people ;—confounding the public and

'private auspices;—leaving nothing pure, nothing un-

'corrupted in the state, that distinctions being put out

'of the way, a man might be equally a stranger to him-

'self and his relations. For, what else could possibly

'be the design of such preposterous marriages, but that

'the fathers and people should couple together with as

'little ceremony as wild beasts '( So that a child born of

'such marriages, half Patrician and half Plebeian,

'would be in a kind of war with himself, being totally

'ignorant of his rank and family, and the sacrifices pro-

'per for his state : and, as it were not enough to con-

« found all rights human and divine, these disturbers of

'the public peace have the imprudence to lift their eyes

'to the consulship itself. That at first they had only

'talked of electing one Plebeian consul, but now they

'rise in their demands, and insist, that the people may

'elect consuls out of either order, as they please: and,

'can any one entertain a doubt, that they would no-

* minate the most turbulent of their own order? Then

* would the Canulei and Icilii strut about with the fas-

* ces. They trusted, however, that the most high Ju-  
'piter would never suffer the majesty of the consulship

'to fall into such contempt; and for their own parts,

* they had rather die a thousand deaths, than concur in  
'so infamous a disgrace. That it was a certain fact, if

'their ancestors could have divined, that by making so

* many concessions, the people were not to become more

* tractable, but on the contrary more assuming, bymak-  
'ing demand upon demand, every one of them more un­

