CHAP. 71. ROMAN HISTORY. 307

As far as conjectures can be formed at this distance df

time, I am apt to imagine, that as the senate, some time

before, had refused the honour of a triumph to the con­

suls Valerius and Horatius, who, besides the war with

the .SLqui and Votsci, had the honour of finishing th"e

war with the Sabines, the present consuls had too much

modesty to demand a triumph; lest, if they had obtain­

ed it, men would have been apt to conclude, that the se­

nate paid more respect to persons than to merit.'

CHAP. LXXI.

'- * • *

The Roman people made Arbitrators. •

A HIS victory, so honourably obtained over their ene­

mies, was disgraced by a selfish award of the people, re.

lative to some contested lands of their allies. The Ar-

cinii and Ardeates, had long disputed the right to a small

territory, for which they had fought many a battle.

Tired at length of the calamities of war, they agreed to

submit the whole to the decision of the Roman people.

When the cause came 10 be pled, both parties exerted

their utmost in an assembly of the people, authorised by

the magistrates. The proof was taken, and the vote

-ready to be put round, when P. Scaptius, an aged ple­  
beian, rose up, and addressing himself to the consuls,

said, ' That were he only allowed. to speak in behalf of

'the state, he could set the Roman people to rights in

'this matter.' When the consuls refused to listen to

him, and ordered him to be removed, as a troublesome

fellow; he still insisted, that the public interest was be­

trayed, and appealed to the tribunes. These gentlemen,

rather governed by the multitude, than the multitude by

them, gave him permission to speak what he pleased to

the people, who were very willing to hear him.

. He then told them, 'That he was now eighty-three

years of age; that he had carried arms on that very

spot which was now the bone of contention; that he

was not then a young man, having made twenty cam­

paigns before the battle of-Corioli; that, therefore, he

would give a candid account of the matter, which at

'so distant a period might have escaped others, but was

