286 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK III .

"of his child. Nay, when her uncle 'and intended

"husband were taking up the body of the expirmg vir-

"gin, he ordered them both to prison, being much more

"affected for the loss of his game, than the tragical

"scene before him. And he saw no reason, why the

"prison which he had built, an-d insolently called the

"Habitation of the commons of Roaie, should not also be

"a mansion-house for himself. Where he might appeal

"as often, as he pleased, and so offen would he impeach

"him on this single article, that tie had unjustly con-

"denmed a person free born, and in free condition, to sla-

"very. And if lie does not instantly plead, I order him

"to jail as a criminal condemned."

'He was therefore conducted to prison ; and though no­

body opposed his commitment, yet it made a very strong

'impression upon the minds of.the populace, who thought

that the rigorous treatment of so great a man was an ex­

cessive stretch of tribunitian power. The tribune ap­

pointed him a day for making his defence..

In the mean time, ambassadors arrived from the La­

tins and Hernici, to congratulate Rome on the reconcN

1iation between the two orders of the state; on account

of which, they lodged in the capito) a crown of gold as

a present to Jupiter, the best and greatest. Their finances

did not permit them to go far as to the weight; but the

ceremonies of religion were more regarded in those days

for their piety, than their pomp. They likewise brought

advices, that the JEqui and Volsci were making mighty

preparations for war: upon which the consuls were or­

dered to share the provinces between them. It fell to

Horatius to march against the Sabines, and to Valerius

to march against the confederate forces of the .5Lqui and

Volsci.

When they were making the enrolments for these

services, such respect did the people pay to there patriot

consuls, that not only the vouth, but those who had

served the legal time, were ready to give in their names,

and most of them, too, as volunteers: by which means,

the army was not only increased, but rendered much

more formidable, by the mixture ot those veterans among

the new raised recruits. Before they left the city, the

two last of the twelve tables of laws were engraven on

