162 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK II.

iuperiority over their neighbours, than to the bravery of

tbeir troops. Having marched to Circei, he first drove

the Roman colony from thence, and delivered to the

Volsci. the city which he had freed from the Roman

yoke. Then crossing the country by marches and

counter-marches, he made himself master of the towns

lying on each side of the Latin road, as Satricum, Lon-

gula, Polusca and Corioli, which had been lately con­

quered by the Romans. After this he retook Lavinium,

Corbio, Vitellia, Trebia, Labici, and Pedum. From Pe-

dum he led his army toward Koine, and encamped at

the Cluilian ditch, 'five miles from it. From whence he

detached pillaging parties to plunder the Roman lands:

having sent out guides, however, with the parties, to save

the lands of the Patricians, either because his resentment

was chiefly pointed at the commons, or that he might

widen the breach between the senate and them: which

-certainly would have been the case, so unwearied were  
the tribunes in inflaming the people, already sufficiently

irritated, by bringing accusations against the first men of

the state, had they not been united by the fear of ene­

mies from without, the greatest bond of harmony within,

however jealous of, and incensed against each other.

In one point they differed, however; the consuls had

all their confidence placed in arms, and the commons

preferred any terms to the chance of war. Spurius Nau-

tiiH and Sex. Furius, were at that time consuls. Whilst

they were mustering the legions, placing guards upon

the walls and other posts, where they thought them ne­

cessary, they were alarmed with a turbulent noise of a

multitude bawling out for peace. Then they obliged

them to convene the senate, and lay before (hem the ex­

pediency of sending deputjegJaJC^Marciaa. The se­

nate agreed to the motion, after they observed the des­

pondency of the people.

Deputies were accordingly sent, who brought back

this haughty answer: If the lands they had taken

"from the Volsci were first restored to them, they might

"then talk of peace: but if they chose to sit at their

"ease, and live upon the spoils of former wars, that hr,

"who was neither insensible of the injuries done him at

"Rome, nor the civilities shown him by the Volsci,

"would endeavour to make them sensible] that banish­

