HAP. 34. ROMAN HISTORY. 251

CHAP. XXXIV.

Great satisfaction in the laws and practice of the Decemviri.

VV HILST all ranks were in raptures with an admi­

nistration which rendered justice with so much dispatch

and impartiality, the decemvirs applied themselves dili­

gently in preparing their code of laws. At length they

called an assembly of the people, big with expectation,

and exposed to public view, ten tables of laws : and pray­

ing, " Jt might prove beneficial, fortunate, and auspici­

ous to the state, themselves and their posterity, re­

quested, they would now read the laws they had pro­

posed. That they had laboured, to the utmost of their

capacity, to adapt them to the circumstances of all

ranks, high and low; but the reflections and remarks

of the whole body of the people, might make many

improvements. They therefore exhorted the people,

to examine each article with attention in private, and

then communicate to each .other their respective senti­

ments, so that they may be prepared to declare in

public, what they conceived should be added or re­

trenched; that in consequence, the Roman people

might have laws, which they could not so properly be

"said to have accepted and .confirmed, as to have dic-

"tated and composed themselves."

After the people had examined and commented upon

every chapter of the laws, and all necessary corrections

and amendments made, to the satisfaction of all concern­

ed, the ten tables were ratified and confirmed in the

Comitia by centuries, and are at this day, the foundation

of ail right, public or privaie, however much systems of

jurisprudence have been multiplied since. It was now

surmised, that several regulations, which would fill two

other tables, ought to be added to the former, in order

to make.a complete code of Roman laws. This opinion

gained ground, and occasioned a .proposal to continue

the decemviral government one year longer; for by that

expedient, the people thought they would be delivered

from the authority of the consuls, now no less odious

than that of kings, and they found no occasion for the

