CHAP. 27. ROMAN HISTORY. 55

the father, nor sufficiently admire the undaunted spirit

of the son, which was proof against every danger. He

was therefore acquitted, rather out ot a regard to his

bravery, than from a conviction of the justice ot his cause.

But not to leave so manifest a murder wholly unpunish­

ed, the father was ordered to make satisfaction for.him

out of the public treasury. At the same time, having

made some expiatory sacrifices, which were ever after

kept up in the Horatian family, he set up a gallows in

the high-way, under which his son behoved to pass,

hood-winked, as if he had passed under the yoke. The

remains of the galiows may be seen at this day, repair­

ed at the public expense, known by the name of the

Sister's Rafter. A tonfb of square stones was erected for

Horatia, in the place where she was killed.

CHAP. XXVII.

The Atbans revolt.

1 HE peace with Alba did not hold long. The people

were highly offended, that the fate of the whole nation

had been committed toMhe arms and gallantry of three

combatants, which put the fluctuatmg genius of the dic­

tator upon new schemes, with a view, since good policy

had not succeeded with him, to recover the' esteem and

confidence of his citizens, by the most perfidious de­

signs. Wherefore, as but lately he had courted peace,

when he had war for an alternative, so now, in peace,

he wishes for war. And conscious that the power of the

Albans was by no means equal to their inclination, he

makes it his business to stir up other states to make war

openly and avowedly, whilst he and his people, under

the mask of allegiance, should act as traitors.

The Fidenates, a Roman colony, in concert with the

Vejentes, their allies, assured of the revolt of the Albans,

take the field. The Fidenates having thus openly de­

clared themselves, Tullus sends for Mettus and his army

from Alba, and marches against the enemy. Having

crossed the Anio, he encamped at its conflux with the

Tiber; between which place and Fnlenae, the Vejentes

had crossed the Tiber. They draw up on the right to­

wards the river, and the Fidenates on the left, towards

