160 TITUS LIVIUS' Book II.

and the attention of the citizens will be engrossed by

it. I remember what happened on u similar occasion,

by means of the Sabine youth, within this city, and I

tremble lest our people should take some rash and in­

considerate step, which I thought it my duty to lay .

before you, O consuls, both on your account and ours.

For my own part, 1 am resolved to go home imme-

"diately, lest by remaining on the spot, my feelings

"should be hurt, in what I might hear or see."

With these words he took his leave. The consuls im­

mediately lay this equivocal hint, the manner in which,

and the person by whom, it was communicated, before

the senate, who, more out of regard fo the author's cre­

dit, than any suspicion of danger, were induced to take

some steps by way of precaution, which might as well

have been spared. Wherefore, by a decree of the se­

nate the Volsci were ordered to evacuate the city, and

the public criers were dispatched to publish this order all

over the city, that the Volsci might all be gone before

night. Whilst they ran hither and thither to their quar­

ters to fetch their things, they were in a terrible panic;

but on -their. return home, their indignation rose to a

prodigious pitch, when they began to reflect, that like

infamous scoundrels, or persons tainted with some infec­

tious disease, they had been driven from seeing the

games, upon the day of the exhibition, as unworthy to

associate with^gods or men.

CHAP. XXXVIII.

Resentment of the Volsci.

J. HEY returned from Rome, in almost one contibucd

body; and Tullus, who had gone before them, as far as

Ifle head of the spring of Ferentinum, accosting the fore­

most of them as they came up, asked them many ques­

tions, and expressed his displeasure at the indignity that

had been offered them. Fond of any thing that en­

couraged their resentment, they gave great attention to

what he said, and followed him to a plain below the road,

where the whole multitude were persuaded to join them.

There, as if he had been haranguing them in an assem­

bly, he spoke to the following effect: " Should you,

