CHAP. 9. ROMAN HISTORY. 215

absence of the consuls a proper opportunity for intro­

ducing the claims of the tribunes, had for some days

been inveighing against the pride of the senators before

the people, and particularly against the consular power as

too despotic and intolerable in a free state; representing,

"That it differed from regal despotism only in name,

"for in effect it had in it something still more odious.

"That instead of one king, they had got two, whose

"power was boundless and immoderate; and being

"themselves neither confined nor restrained by any law,

turned the whole terror and severity of the laws against

the common people. That this licentiousness might

not be perpetual, he intended to prefer a bill for get­

ting five commissioners appointed to draw up laws for

regulating the consular authority. That in conse­

quence, the consul should have no other right over

the people, than the people themselves should think

proper to give them; nor substitute their own passion

and caprice in place of law."

This law being proposed, the Patricians were not a

little afraid, that in the absence of the consuls this yoke

might be wreathed about their necks, when Q. Fabius

assembled the senate as governor of the city. There he

gave full scope to his indignation, in inveighing against

the bill and its author, insomuch, that had both consuls

been present, determined to pull the tribune to pieces,

they could not have opened on him with greater fury,

or employed more dreadful menaces. "This fellow,

"(says he,) lies in wait, and takes advantage of the ab-

"sence of the consuls, to strike a blow against the com-

«* monwealth. Had the gods in their wrath, only the

"year before, given Rome such a tribune, in the midsr.

"of the plague and the war, his villainy might have

been then triumphant. The two- consuls being no

more, and the city labouring in siekness and general

confusion, he would have proposed the abolition of

the consulship, and placed himself at the head of the

/l''.qui and Volsci to attack the city. What can he

plead in excuse for such licentiousness? If the consuls,

in the abuse of their authority, oppressed any citizen,

"th«y might be cited before the people, at whose tri-

•* bonal they were obliged to answer; and of this onler,

"the complainant himself is a member. Proceeding

