CHAP. 20. ROMAN HISTORY. 431

and the success as usual, was answerable. He not only

routed the enemy in the engagement, but took their

camp, where he found considerable spoils, of which the

greatest part was remitted to the quaestor, and the re­

mainder given to the soldiers. From thence he led his

army to Veii, where he increased the number or forts on

the lines, and prohibiting by proclamation, all fighting

without orders, which bad often happened between the

walls of the town and the lines, in inconsiderate skir­

mishes, he employed the people in useful works.

He then began the most important and laborious work

of all, which was to carry a mine into the enemy's cita-

Jel. That there might be no intermission in the workr

and at the same time to ease the workmen, that they

might not be oppressed with continual labour under

ground, he divided the pioneers into six bauds, each of

which was to work six hours at a time. Thus the work

was carried on night and day without intermission, till a

passage was opened to the citadel.

CHAP. XX.

Tlie works completed. Disputes about dividing the spoil.

J. HE dictator, when he saw that he must now infal­

libly conquer, and that the richest city of Italy was on

the point of falling into his hands, where, of consequence,

more considerable spoils would be taken than had been

gained in all their former wars together; that he might

neither draw the anger of the soldiers upon himself, for

dividing them with too much parsimony, nor the envy

of the fathers, for distributing them with too much pro­

fusion, wrote to the senate to inform that body, 'That bv

• the favour of the immortal gods, his own conduct, ahii

'the perseverance of the soldiers, Veii would soon be in

'the hands of the Roman people. That, therefore, he

'. would be glad to have their opinion with regard to the

'disposal of the spoils.'

The senate .were divided into two opinions. The one

was that of Licinius the father, who being first asked by

his son, answered, that he thought proclamation should

be made, that whoever of the citizens was desirous of

