CHAP. 32. ROMAN HISTORY. 151

had their measures so conceited, that by their interest and

artful management, they not only frustrated the expec­

tations, but tf.e good intentions of the dictaior also.

Valerius, immediately after the return of the consul

Vetusius, previous to every other consideration, made a

motion in favour of the victorious commons, and pre­

pared a bill for the relief of insolvent debtors. When

his motion was rejected ; " I plainly perceive, (said he,)

"that I am by no means agreeeble to you, because I

"am for peace in the bosom of the republic. My Her-

"cules, the period is not distant, when you will wish

"that the Roman people had patrons of the same prin-

"ciples. But, as to what regards me, expect not that

"I will deceive my fellow-citizens, or continue dictator

"in vain. A foreign war, and domestic feuds were the

"republic's motives for honouring me witd the dictator-

"ship. We have now peace abroad, ami I am prevent-

"ed from establishing it at home. I had much rather

"behold the sedition as a private person, than with the

"title of dictator."

Then leaving the senate abruptly, he resigned the

dictatorship. The matter appeared to the commons in

its genuine point of view, that he had laid down his

office from a generous resentment of their injuries.

Wherefore, as he had nobly exerted himself in their fa­

vour, they conducted him home with loud shouts and

acclamations, as if he had fulfilled every obligation he

had come under.

CHAP. XXXII.

A secesiion.

J. HE Fathers were now in the utmost terror, lest the

army should. be disbanded, and their private caballing

and plotting be resumed; for this reason, though the le­

vies had been made by the dictator, since they had taken

the oath to the consuls, they thought they were still

bound to obey them; and under pretence that the .Equi

were again in arms, ordered them to be marched into

the field: An immediate sedition was the consequence.

The soldiers at first proposed, it is said, to put the con­

