U6 TITOS LIVIUS' BOOK IE

"dier, unless they performed the promise that had been

"made them ;—that before they put arms in their hands,

• ' it was highly proper they should restore them their li-

"berty, that they might know whether they were to

"fight for their country and fellow citizens, or for des-

"potic tyrants."

The consuls knew well the extent of their commission

from the senate; but of all those bold declai'mers, who

had talked so high within the walls of the senate-house,

not one appeared to share with them in the public odium.

Besides, it appeared, that this contest with the people

would be a serious affair. Therefore, before they should

come to extremities, they judged it expedient to talk

over the matter with the senate a second time, which

they did accordingly. The young senators then crowd­

ed round the consuls chairs, ordering them to abdicate

the consulship, and resign an authority they wanted

spirit to support.

: CHAP. xxix.

Tlie Consular authority slighted. Various plans proposed.

J[ HE consuls having sufficiently tried both experi­

ments, made this short reply: "Conscript fathers, re-

"member, we tell you, that a terrible sedition is on the

"point of breaking out, and we insist that they who

"brand us with pusillanimity, may only assist us in

"making the levies. Since you advise violent measures,

•' we shall act with all the spirit the keenest of you

"would desire." With these 'words, they returned to

their tribunal, and cailed upon one of the most factious,

whom ihey had in their, view, to come and be inrolled.

As the man stood still, without returning an answer, and

a crowd got about him, to protect him; in case of need,

the consuls sent a lictor to seize him. The lictor being

repulsed, such of the senators as were present with the

consuls, exclaiming against the indignity, came down

from the tribunal to support the lictor. But the mob,

who had only preventer! the officer from seizing the man,

now turned upon the senators. The consuls interposed,

and the tumult was appeased. Neither stones nor darts

