CHAP. 28. ROMAN HISTORY. 415

CHAP. XXVIII.

Further contests, and the levies opposed.

JL HE new consuls, were A. Virginius and T. Veturius.

The commons, in the mean time, uncertain how these

new magistrates would act, began to hold nocturnal con­

ventions, partly on the Esquiline, and partly on the

Aventine hiHs, for the purpose of concerting such mea­

sures, as exigencies should require, to prevent their being

surprised into hasty resolutions in the forum, or taking

measures inconsiderately, before they were properly di­

gested. The consuls considering how dangerous the con­

sequences of these cabals might turn out, made a report

of them to the senate.

But the affair could not be taken regularly under con­

sideration, so much tumult and clamour arose from every

part of the house, upon this representation, agamst the

consuls, who, instead of doing the duties of their office,

were for ridding themselves of the odious part of it, by

transferring it to the senate. "Were there really ma­

gistrates in Rome," said they, " there would be only

one public council: but the republic now was split

into a thousand senate-houses and assemblies, some of

which were held on the Esquiline, others on the Aven­

tine hill. One man of spirit, such as Appius Claudius,

but that is of more consideration than a consul, would

send all these cabals a packing in an instant."

The consuls, nettled at this reprimand, asked the se­

nate, in what manner they would have them to proceed,

assuring them, at the same time, that they should not

want resolution to act agreeable to their pleasure. It

was therefore determined, that they should proceed to

make the levies with all possible severity, as the people

were become insolent, for want of employment. The

senate being dissolved, the consuls ascended their tribu­

nal, and cited the younger citizens to enlist by name;

when nobody made answer, and the people crowding

round, as if they had been summoned to an assembly,

told them, " That the people would be no longer im-

"posed on, and that they should not have a single sol­

