CHAP. 63. ROMAN HISTORY. 197

stop to his design. What increased their wonder, was

the sudden calm and serenity that ensued, the moment

he sounded the retreat: For they imagined, some deity

had interposed to save the camp, and their religious

scruples prevented them from making a second attempt;

wherefore, all their fury was discharged upon the coun­

try, which they plundered without opposition. The

other consul /Emilius, conducted the war against the Sa-

bines, who confmed themselves within their walls: for

that reason, he laid waste their country, burning not only

the farm-houses, but also large and populous villages.

This forced the Sabines out of iheir strong-holds, who,

meeting with a foraging party, had an engagement with

them; hut victory declaring for neither party; when

they retired from the field, they marched oifnext day to

a place of greater security. This the consul considered

as a sufficient victory in his favour; and upon their re­

treat, returned home, leaving the war unfinished.

D.

CHAP. LXIII.

War with the Volsci and jEqui.

"URING these wars abroad, and civil commotions

at home, T. Numicius Priscus and A. Yirginius were

chosen consuls. The commons seemed now resolved to

admit of no evasions with respect to the Agrarian law,

anci were accordingly preparing to set every engine to

work, when the flight of the country people, and the

smoke of the houses, all in flames, informed them, that

the-Volsci were at hand. This invasion suppressed the

sedition, which was now ripe, and on the point of break­

ing out. .

The senate obliged the consuls to march immediately

against the enemy; and when the youth had once quit­

ted the city, the rest of the people made no more noise.

But the Volsci contented themselves with the pleasure of

having put the Romans in a needless fright, and without

attempting any thing further, made all the haste they

eould out of their territories. Numicius pursued them

to. Antium, and Virginius marched against the /Lqui.

There the army fell into an ambush, and. narrowly escap­

ed being cut to pieces.

