CHAP. 6. 113 ROMAN HISTORY.

which some think, was so called from the circumstance

of his.name, which was Vindicius. Hence it has been

a rule, that freedom obtained in this manner, has en­

titled the receiver to all the privileges of a Roman ci .

tizen.

CHAP. VI.

The Tarquins muster an army; are defeated; but Brutus

is killed.

JL ARQUIN having been informed of these things,

grief, rage, and hatred, all at once seized him, upon the

disappointment of his only hopes: and since now he had

no hopes in succeeding by stratagem, and that there was

no alternative but open war, he made the circuit of Etru-

ria, humbly beseeching, particularly the Vejentes and

Tarquinienses, " That they would not suffer to perish

"before their eyes, himself, and the prmces his sons,

"of the same blood with themselves, who though now

"an abject exile, was but lately possessed of a consider­

able kingdom. That others had been sent for from

foreign parts, and invested kings of Rome, but Utat

he, their lawful sovereign, whilst enlarging the empire

by his arms abroad, was dethroned by a conspiracy

tif his nearest relations; that they, since no single one

among them was judged equal to the honour of ruling

alone, had split the regal -office into parts, and shared

them among them, that they had given up all his ef­

fects to be plundered by the people, that all ^mong

them might be somehow concerned in the' guilt.

What he ardently wished for now, was to recover his

kingdom and his country, to take vengeance on his

ungrateful subjects; that they were peculiarly inte­

rested in supporting his pretensions, because in his

quarrel, they would revenge the injuries done them.

before, when their armies had been so often slaugh­

tered, and their lands wrested from them."

These arguments were specious, and weighed with the

Vejentes, who felt themselves heroes in an instant, boast­

ing with prodigious bluster, that now, with a Roman

general at their head, they would wipe off every formcf

