CHAP. 50. ROMAN HISTORY. 475

« charge of the Sybilline books, should be consulted

• about the proper mode of purification. That by public

authority, a league of hospitality should be made with

the people of Caere *, who had given a safe retreat to

the Roman priests and sacred things, and by whose

favour, the worship of the immortal gods had suffered

no interruption. That the Capitoline games should be

celebrated in honour of Jupiter, the best and greatest,

who in all the misfortunes that had happened, had pre­

served his august abode, and the citadel of Rome ; and

that the dictator Camiltus should constitute a college of

persons, chosen from among the inhabitants of the ca-

pitol and citadel, to superintend that affair.'

It was also moved, that expiation should likewise be

made for the neglect of the miraculous voice heard in

the night, which gave warning of the impending calami­

ty, before any war with the Gauis was thought of, and a

temple ordered to be erected to Aius Locutius-^, in the

New Street. It was likewise ordered, that the 'gold,

which had been rescued from the Gauls, and that which

in their greatest danger had been taken out of the other

temples, and conveyed to the chapel of Jupiter, should

be deemed sacred, and deposited at his shrine, because

in their confusion, they could not recollect the places to

which it ought to be returned.

The religion of the Romans had before been conspi­

cuous, in the behaviour of the ladies, when the public

was at a loss to make up the stipulated ransom to the

Gauls, in supplying that deficiency, that the sacred trea­

sure might not be touched; for which act of generosity,

they had thanks returned them, and moreover the ho­

nour decreed them, of having funeral orations pronounced

over them after their death, as well as the men. After

the duties of religion, and such things as could be trans­

acted by means of the senate, had been performed, the

tribunes began, in their daily harangues, to resume the

.old .plea, and urge the people to abandon Rome in ruins,

and remove to Veii, a city ready built and furnished,

when Camillas appeared in the assembly of the people,

attended by the whole body of the senate, and spoke to

the following effect.

# Hence, Cxremonia, from Ccere and Mantre.

f 1 be speaking god.

