CHAP. 69. - ROMAN HISTORY. 303

* of the people, who will neither suffer you to live in  
'peace at home, nor do yoursetves justice abroad, hav-

'ing nothing at heart, in using their mfluence with you,

'but your interests. You are grossly mistaken.—You

* are only their tools to promote their own interest and  
'honour.

'When domestic peace and unanimity prevail, they

'fmd they have no business,—no credit; and they had

'- rather lead to tumult and sedition, than be taken no

'noiice of at air. If then you can at length be unde-

'ceived, and feel in what manner you have been led by

'the noses; only resume your wonted spirit and man-

* ners, instead of this new plan of operation, and there is  
'no punishment to which I will not submit, if I do not

* in'a few days, disperse and drive to perdition, these

* sanguinary depredators, and carry all the terror of this  
'war, which gives you such pain at present, from the

* walls and gates of Rome, to their own cities.' • .

CHAP. LXIX.

Good effects of Quinctius' speech.

J.\ EVER were the commons better pleased with the

embellishments of a sweet-lipped tribune, than they were

with the severe commentary of this generous consul.

The youth, whose refusal, iu contests of this kind, was

a powerful resource against the endeavours of the se­

nate, breathed nothing but arms and war. The sight

of'the farmers, who had fled to the city for refuge, many

of them despoiled o, their lands, and their wounds still

bleeding, whilst they p&inted scenes of distress still

more affecting, filled all the citizens with a just desire of

revenge.

When Quinctius entered the senate, the eyes of all

were fixed on him, admiring him as the only asserter

of the majesty of the Roman name. The principal se­

nators observed, ' That his speech did honour to the

'office he filled, to the former consulships he had held,

* and in fine to his whole life, illustrious by the most  
'glorious offices of the state, which he frequently had

'bore, and more frequently deserved. That other con­

