CHAP. 46. ROMAN HISTORY. 269

-

ditious persons, that they will find resolution in a de­

cemvir and legislator, to inforce his own decrees. Nor

shall I have occasion for my colleague's lictors, my

own will be sufficient, to chastise the insolence of the

turbulent and seditious."

The time for perpetrating this act of villainy being

thus put off, and the counsel for the defendant retired,

they first of atl resolved, instantly to dispatch Icilius,

brother ami Numitorius' son, two active young men, to

the gates, to bring Virginius from the camp 'vith all

expedition, for the preservation of his daughter depend­

ed entirely-upon his being present exactly at the ap­

pointed time. They set out as directed, and posting it

all the way, carried the news to Viginius.

In the mean time, the plaintiff insisted, that Icilius

should give security for producing her in court. Icilius

told him, that he was just then about it, designedly

spinning out the time, till the messengers dispatched to

Virginius had made some progress in their journey; the

people all around held up their hands, every one otter­

ing eagerly to be surety for Icrlius. Touched with the

aftection of his fellow-citizens, Icilius burst into tears,

while he returned them thanks. "To-morrow," said

he, "I will make use of your assistance; to-day we have

"abundance of securities." Thus was Virginia set at

liberty, her relations having given bail to present her.

Appius, to avoid suspicion, that he had sat in judgment

on account of this cause alone, did not leave his tribunal

directly; but as no other cause was called, Virginia hav­

ing so much engrossed the public attention, that nobody

applied to him; he returned home, and wrote to his

colleague in the camp, intreating, " They would give

"no leave of absence to Virginius, but on the contrary,

"lay him under arrest."

This wicked advice, deservedly came too late; for,

Virginius having obtained a furlough, had set out by the

first watch in the night, whereas the letters for detain­

ing him, were only delivered next morning early, when

he was out of their reach.

