210 . TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK III.

blow, as he met with them carrying off their booty; for,

by this minute reckoning, four thousand two hundred

and thirty of them were cut to pieces.

After this, they returned to Rome, when all the conns

of justice were opened. At this time, the heavens seemed

to be all in flames. Many other phenomena were real­

ly seen, or seemed to be so, by people overcome with

their fears. To avert these dreadful omens, three so­

lemn fast-days were appointed, during which, the tem­

ples were crowded with multitudes of both sexes, implo­

ring the protection of the gods. Then the Latin and

Hernician troops were dismissed by the senate, who re­

turned them their warmest acknowledgments • for their

signal services in the war; but a thousand soldiers from

Antium, who came too late to share in the glory of the

day, had not so honourable a discharge.

CHAP. VI.

A pestilence at Rome. A. R. 291.

I PON this followed an election, when L.. .SJbutius

and P. Servilius were chosen consuls, and entered on.

their office, the first of August, which, at that time, was

the beginning of the year.* This was a melancholy

year, rendered so particularly by a plague, which raged

in town and country, and carried off both man and

beast. The fear of a.n invasion, contributed not a little

to spread the infection, the peasants and their cattle

being all received into the city. This medley of animals

of every kind, raised an intolerable smell, which became

nauseous to the citizens, and stifled the country people,

whilst they were pent up in close rooms, with heat and

want of sleep; Besides, their attendance on each other,

with the infections nature of the distemper, propagated

it every where.

When they were scarce able to support themselves un-

* The beginning of the consular year, was at this time, and long  
after, quite fluctuating and uncertain; sometimes commencing in

March, sometimes in October, August, July and December: but,

at tast,'A. R. 599, it was fixed to commence in January, which

ever aftej it continued to do, till the ruin of the republic.

