CHAP. 28. ROMAN HISTORY, 351

centre, they would have paid dear for their rebellion,

if Vectius Messius, one of the Volsci, a man more dis­

tinguished for his merit, than his birth, had not read his

countrymen a severe lecture, as they were already star­

ing about them in crowds; calling aloud to them, 'Are

you determined to open your breasts, exposed to the

enemy's darts, and to fall here unrevenged? Was it

for this purpose that you brought arms with you?—

Was this all you had in view, when you were the first

to take up arms; mighty bold, when there is no dan­

ger, but in battle mere poltroons? What do you look

for standing here? Do you imagine, that some divi­

nity is to take you under his protection, and extricate

you from your present difficulty? No; you must open

a passage with your swords. Such of you as have

any desire to see your houses, fathers, wives, and

children again, come this way along with me, whither

you shall see me lead the way. You are neither ob­

structed by walls nor entrenchments; but by men

armed like yourselves. If you are equal in course

you are certainly superior in point of necessity, the

last and most effectual weapon.'

He had scarce finished this speech, when he was fol­

lowed by his own people with repeated shouts, as he was

putting in practice what he had promised. They at­

tacked with great fury the cohorts -which opposed them

under Posthnmius Albus, and made them give way,

victorious as they had been, till the dictator came up

just as they were beginning to retire. The whole heat

of the battle turned that way. The fate of the enemy

depended on Messius alone. The list of the wounded

and killed was high on both sides. On the side of the

Romans, the general officers did not escape without

wounds. Though the dictator was wounded in the

shoulder, though Fabius' thigh was almost pinned to his

horse, and though the consul lost an arm, none of them

thought of quitting the field at so critical a juncture.

