CHAP. 45. - ROMAN HISTORY. 3<75

had Treated suspicions,* to her disadvantage. Where­

fore, her trial was put off" for want of evidence.f and she

was afterwards acquitted: but the high priest, with the

consent and approbation of the whole college, admonish­

ed her, to behave with more prudence and less gaiety

for the future, and to have more regard to modesty, than

taste and elegance in her dress.—This year also, Cumsc,

a city till then possessed by the Greeks, was taken by

the people of Capua. In the following year, the mili­

tary tribunes with consular power, were Agrippa Mene-

nius Lanatus, P. Lucretius Tricipitinus, and Sp. Nautius

Rutilus.

CHAP. XLV.

Conspiracy of the Slaves. Motions of the jEqui and

Lavicans. Obstinacy of the Military Tribunes.

JL HIS year was more remarkable for a lucky escape

the Roman people had from a dangerous plot, than any

evil consequence that attended it. The slaves.had form­

ed a conspiracy to set the city on fire in several places,

at a distance from each other, and with arms in their

hands, to seize the citadel and capitol, whilst the people

were employed in saving their houses. But Jupiter

frustrated the effect of their criminal intentions; for the

plot being discovered by two of their number, the con­

spirators were secured, and punished with death. The

informers, for so Important a service, were rewarded

with their liberty, and 10,000 asses of brass,t weighed

out ai the treasury. A capital sum in those days.

After this, the JEqui began to make preparations for

war; and besides, advices were received at Kome, the

certainty of which was not to be doubted, thai the peo­

ple of Lavicum, who cm no former occasion had been at

war with the Romans, were associating themselves with

these old enemies of the stale^ The war with the jEqui

was in a manner become annual; but ambassadors were

# 06 suspic'umem,—rather ab fu pkione.

•f- Ampliatwn, ab amplius censendo, adjourned, sisted, for a new

bearnj. % .£32:5:9f.

