CHAP. 57. ROMAN IllSTORY. . 393

tion, the senate, as the last resource in cases of imminent

danger, immediately ordered a dictator to be named; a

circumstance, which, it is said, greatly oflended Julius

and Cornelius, and produced very warm disputes with

the senate; and when the principal of that order com­

plained that the military tribunes refused to subject them­

selves to the authority of the senate, and at last had re­

course to the tribunes of the people, alledging they had

precedents, where, in similar cases, consuls had been

over-ruled by the authority of the tribunes. The tri­

bunes, far from being dissatisfied with this misunder­

standing among the fathers, told them that it was ridi­

culous to expect any assistance from them, wjiom they

did .not respect as citizens, nor regard as men. That if

ever the honours and government of the state should be

common to both orders, they should soon be convinced,

that the decrees of the senate should not become void

through the insolence of any magistrate whatever. In

the mean time, the Patricians, who seemed amenable to-

ueither laws nor Magistrates, might exercise the authori­

ty of tribunes for themselves.

CHAP. LVII.

* f

A Dictator created, who dispels the storm at Antium.

i HIS dispute had engrossed the public attention at a

most unseasonable conjuncture,.when they had so great

a war upon their hands, whilst Julius and Cornelius had

Iong held forth, in alternate harangues, the mjustice of

wresting from them the honours the people had bestow­

ed on theni, as they were sufficiently qualified them­

selves for doing their duty as generals, and conducting

the war; when Ahala Servilius rose up, and represented.

That he had long been silent, not because he was at a

loss how to act ,as the interests of a good citizen were

* never separated from those of the public, but bi^-ause  
he would have wished that his colleagues had volun­

tarily submitted to the authority of the senate, rather

than to have suffered them to apply 10 the power of the

tribunes to compel them. That even then, did the si­

tuation of affairs permit, he would most cheerfully give

