886 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK HK

This minister of the decemvir's pleasures, laid bold of

her as she was going into the forum, where schools were

kept in a kind of shops,.and calling her his slave, as hav­

ing been born of one of his bond-women, desired her to

follow binr immediately., otherwise he would oblige her

to do so by force. The poor. girl was struck with amaze­

ment, and trembled with fear; but her governess raising

a great cry,. imploring the assistance of the people,

brought a great crowd about them..

The names of her father Virginius, and of Iciiius, her

intended husband, ware heard' on all sides. Regard to

them brought their acquaintance to the place, and the

scandal of the action engaged the most indifferent in her

quarrel. This secured her against violence.—The claim­

ant then cried out, that there was no occasion for so much

noise, for force was entirely out of the question with him-,

since the usual steps of law were open to him; and im­

mediately cited her before the magistrate, whither, by

the advice of those about her, she followed him.

When they came to Appius' tribunal, the plaintiff.

opened his claim to the judge, in a-story with which he

was previously acquainted, having himself instructed him

in the plan or prosecution. He said, that'Virginia was

born in his house, whence she had been stolen and car­

ried to Virginius', where she passed for his daughter.

This, he insisted, he would prove, by incontestible evi­

dence, to which, were Virginius judge, who had been

the greatest sufferer, he could have nothing, to object. In

the mean time, it was but reasonable, that the girl should

follow her master. The counsel for the young lady

pleaded, that seeing Virginius was ab'roail in the service

of his country, and might, if he were advised; be present

within two days, it was unfair, in his absenee( 10 raise

any dispute about his children; and insisted, that judg­

ment should be suspended till Virginius should be pre­

sent. And agreeable to the law made by Appius him-

self, she should be allowed to continue in the possession

of her freedom, till a definitive sentence in the case; that

being a virgin, arrived at maturity, she might not run.

the risk.of her honour, before she had lost her liberty.

