80 . TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK I.

by the sacrifice of a sow, a sheep, and a bull; and this

was called the fmishing stroke of the lustrum, because

then the census was completed.

It is computed, that eighty thousand citizens were

inrolled in that census. Fabius Pictor, the oldest his­

torian we have, adds, " That this was the number of

"citizens fit to bear arms." To accommodate this

great number of people, it was thought necessary to en­

large the city: in consequence of which he added two

hills, the Quirinal,* and Viminal.f and soon after, the

Esquiline;| where, to give a reputation to the place, he

dwelt himself. He fortified the city with a rampart,

ditches, and a wall quite round it; and consequently en­

larged the Pomcerium.

They only who have a regard to the natural significa­

tion of the word, will have the pomaerium to be a space

of ground without the walls; but it is rather a space on

each side of the wall, which the Etrurians formerly, in

laying the foundation of cities, consecrated by augury,

extending to certain lines on each side of the wall they

intended to raise; so that the houses might not be joined

to it on the inside, as they do generally at present, and

that on the outside there might be some ground left un-

tilled. This space, which could neither be ploughed,

nor, built upon, is by the Romans called ponuerium,^

not more because it lies without the walls, than because

the walls lye without it. And, on all occasions, when the

city was enlarged, in propertion as the walls, so this con­

secrated ground was also extended.

•' • t

CHAP. XLV.

Builds a temple to Diana, in conjunction with the Latins,

THE .-

! state being thus improyed, the city enlarged, and

jevery thing in it modelled to t:he .best advantage, for the

-practical purposes of peace and war, that they might not  
always depend upon arms for their resources, he endea-

* Three miles round. f Two miles and a half round.

• Four mile.s round. § Post murum, aut mxrum.

