CHAP. 28. 'ROMAN HISTORY. 243

CHAP. XXVIII.

The consul relieved, the Mqui beat, and obliged to pass

under the yoke.

JL HE dictator mounting on horseback, rode round the

enemy's camp, and examined its form and extent with

all the minuteness the night would admit; he then or足

dered the tribunes to cause the baggage' to be heaped up

in one place, and the soldiers to return with their arms

and stakes into their ranks; all which was instantly com足

plied with. He made his army extend itself around

their camp, in the same good order as they had marched,

with orders to throw up a ditch, and fortify it with pali-

sadoes, and the moment the signal should be given, to

set up a. great shout all together. They waited not long

for the signal, and executed the orders with the utmost

punctuality. The cry was heard round the enemy on

all si'les, and beyond the camp of the jEqui, soon reach足

ed the consul's camp, where it spread confidence and joy,

whilst it filled the /Kqui with consternation and terror.

The consul's army, when they heard the shouts of

their fellow citizens, congratulated each other; and as足

sured that relief was at hand, threatened the enemy with

their advanced.and picquet-guards. "There is now no

time to be lost," cried the consul; " the shout we have

beard, has not only announced the arrival of our

friends, but that they are already engaged with the

enemy. Nay, it would be matter of wonder, if the

enemy's lines are not already attacked on the outside.

To arms, therefore, to arms, and follow me soldiers."

Out sallied the legions in the night to the attack, and

their shouts informed the dictator, that the enemy had

also hot work on the inside.

The .SLqui were just going to interrupt the works the

dictator ha.I begun, to prevent their being surrounded,

when the alarm from the other side, obliged them to turn

the. best part of their strength that way, lest they should

open a way through the heart of their camp; and leave

the dictator at liberty, for the rest of the night, to go on

with his works.

