72 ... TITUS UVIUS' Book 1.

"into my power, and that of the Roman people? We

"have done it. And I receive them."

The Sabine war being-thus concluded, Tarquin re­

turned to Rome in. triumph. Then he made war upon

the ancient Latiusi and without coming to a general en­

gagement, by appearing before their towns, one after

another, he subdued the . whole nation. The cities,

Corniculum, Old Ficulnea, Cumeria, Crustumerium,

Ameriola, Medullia, Nomentum, were either taken from

the Latins themselves, ,or from those who had revolted

to them. Now there was peace, when he turned his

niind upon carrying on the works he had begun in it,

even more keenly, if possible, than he had done the war,

that the people might have no more idle time at home,

in peace, than abroad in arms. For he not only made

preparations for drawing a stone wall round that part of

the city which had not been fortified, the beginning of

which had been interrupted by the Sabine war; but be-

• cause the water could not be easily carried off from the

flat grounds, he drained the low places of the city about

the Forum, and the other vallies lying between the hills,

by common sewers, which were drawn sloping to the

Tiber. Moreover, he levelled an area, for laying the

foundation of a temple to Jupiter, in the capital, which

he had vowed in the Sabine war,.anticipating even then

in idea, the future greatness of the place.

CHAP. XXXIX.

A strange phenomenon.

XA.BOUT this time, a very surprising phenomenon, for-

lowed by an event no less so, happened in the palace..

The story goes, that in presence of many, the head of a

boy, cai'ed Servius Tullius, seemed all in flames, whilst

he was a;leep. The prodigious noise occasioned by this

strange appearance, awaked the royal family, and when

one of the servants was fetching water to extinguish the

flame, he was stopt by the queen, who, after the confu­

sion was over, ordered that nobody should stir the boy,

till he should awake of himself. Very soon the flame

