CHAP. 49. ROMAN HISTORY. 381

of bankruptcy, now fled to the protection of that college : .

aml it would tend much to their ownjionour, as well as

to the dignity of their office, if it should appear, thai tlie

power with which they were invested, was not so much

calculated for harassing the sentate, and sowing discord

among the different orders of the state, as to oppose the

malevolent designs of their colleagues. There was now

a noise all over the senate-house, oecasioned by the'

members, who, from every corner, appealed to the col­

lege of tribunes.

When silence was ordered, they who had been pre­

viously prepared by the application of the principal sena­

tors, declared, that they would oppose the bill preferred

by their colleagues, since it was the judgment of the se­

nate, that it tended to the subversion of jthe state. The

senate renrned thanks to the dissenting tribunes j and

those who had preferred the bill summoned an assembly,

where, having inveighed against their colleagues, as

traitors to the interest of their constituents, creatures of

the consulars, and other opprobrious appellatives, they

dronped from their motion.

CHAP. XLIX. ;••

* *' ~ r* •'

The jEqui humbled. Pride of Posthumius checked by

L, Sextius.

1 HE next year, P. Cornelius Cossus, C. Valerius

Potitus, Q. Quint-tins Cincinnatus, and Numerius Fabius

Vibulanus were created military tribunes with consular

power. Whilst they were in office, the Republic would

have had war, with two of its restless neighbours, if that

with the Vejentes had not been put off by a religious

scruple among their chiefs, whose estates an inundation

of the Tiber had lately damaged, by demolishing their'

seats and villas; and the jEqui been diverted from assist­

ing the inhabitants of Volse, a people belonging to their

own nation, by the blow they had received three years

before. Incursions had been made from thence upon the

territory of Lavicum, bordering with theirs, and hostili­

ties committed upon the Roman colony lately planted"

there. They thought, by the assistance of all the /Equi,

