CHAP. 29. ROMAN HISTORY- 147

were employed; the alfair passed with more noise and

angry words, than any real mischief.

The senate assembled tumultucmsly, and went upon

the business still more so. Those who hod been person­

ally insulted demanding an inquiry, and the most violent

members declaring themselves more by their noise and

clamour, than by giving their opinions. At length, their

passion subsided; and the consuls having remarked, to

their reproach, that the same ungovernable spirit that

prevaited in the forum, had now taken possession of the

senate-house, they began their deliberations with more

composure.

There were three different opinions prevailed in the

senate. P. Virginias was not for a general act of grace;

and gave his opinion, " That those only, who upon ihe

"promise of the consul Servilius, had carried arms

"against the Volsci, Arunci, and Sabines, were entitled

"to a discharge.''

Titus Largius represented, " That this was not the

"time to weigh and balance services with precision ;—

"that the whole body of the people were drowned in

"debt, and it was impossible to stop the evil, but by a

"general release. For to make a distinction among the

"debtors, would only inflame, not extinguish thii flame

"of discord." Appius Claudius, who was naturally

violent, and rendered still more so, in the present emer­

gency, by the haired of the people on the one side, and

the excessive praise of the senators on the other, cried

out, " That it was npttmiseiy, but licentiousness that

"was the source of thq|e riots.—That the behaviour of

"the populace, was the effect of wantonness and not of

"fury. The source of all these disorders lay in their

"right to appeal, which divested the consuls of every

** power, but that of threatening, since a delinquent  
"could appeal from their judgment, to that of their owa

"peers and co-operators." "Come," continued he,

"let us create a dictator, from whom their lies no ap-

"peal, and this flame, which spreads with such vio-

"lence, will, in an instant, come to nothing. Let them

"dare to insult an officer, when they see the power of

"life and death in the hands of that person, whose au-

"thority they had the assurance to insult/'

