CHAP. 7. ROMAN HISTORY. 23

histoty-ef his grand-sons, how they were born, brought

up, and discovered; and also informs them of the mur­

der of the tyrant, at the same time acknowledging,

that it did not happen without his consent. Then the

young princes, making their way through the middle of

the crowd, with their attendants, saluted their grand­

father king; of which the multitude echoing shouts of

approbation, confirmed to him at once, the prerogative,

as well as the title of king.

TNumitor being thus recognized king of Alba, Romulus

and Remus became passionately fond of building a city

on the very spot where they had been exposed and

brought up. A number, both of Trojans and Albans,

could well enough be spared, and the shepherds had al­

ready acceded to the motion, who altogether were easily

induced to hope, that in future times, Alba and Lavi-

nia would only be looked upon as inconsiderable villages,

compared with the city they were about to build. These

views were afterwards interrupted by ambition, an here­

ditary evil, which though it was attended with no sort

of acrimony at first, had an event sufficiently tragical.

As the brothers were twins, and the respect due to

seniority could make no distinction, they agreed that the

tutelar gods of the country should decide by Augury *,

which of the two should give a name and laws to the

new city, when built. Romulus choosed the Palatine,

and Remus the Aventine mount, for making their re­

spective observations.

CHAP, VII. Remus killed.

XV EMUS, it is said, had the first omen, namely, sij£.

Vultures: but he had hardly made his report, wfren

double"the number appeared to Romulus; upon which

* Ab iivium gestu, vel garritu, first invented in Chaldea, thence  
transmitted to Greece, thence to the Tuscans, and by them

communicated to the Latins and Romans. In taking an Augury,

the observer stood on a tower, vita'bis head covered with a

gown pecutiar to his office, calted Laena, and turning his face to

the east, marked out the heavens into four temples, or quarters,

with his litus or short rod, after which he stood waiting for the

omeu, which always gained most credit when confirmed by another

