78 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK I.

were designed for defence; a spear and sword were also

given them as weapons of offence. To this class were

added two centuries of mechanics, who were to serve

without arms, and to be employed in carrying the mili­

tary engines. ,

The second. class comprehended those whose estates

amounted to 75,000 asses of brass,* and upwards to

100,000; and of those including old and young, were

made up twenty centuries. Their arms were in every

respect the same as those mentioned above, excepting

that they had an oblong shield, instead of a round one,

and no coat of mail.

The third class lie appointed to consist of those who

were rated at 50,000 asses. f Tljese again, with respect

to difference of age and number of centuries, were dis­

tinguished in UK.' same manner as- the second; nor was-

there any alteration in their arms , but that they had no

boots.

In the fourth class, the valuation was estimated at

2.5,000 asses,t and the centuries the same as in the third.

This class bad no defensive arms; but their offensive

were a spear and a long javelin.

In the fifth class, the centuries were increased to thirty;

and were armed with slings and stones. Among them

were reckoned the Accensi,|| the blowers on the horn, and

pipers, divided into three centuries. This whole class

consisted of those who were rated at 1 1,000 asses.§

The sixth class comprehended all such as were below

the last rate, and of them one century was made up,

which was exempted from carrying arms.

The infantry being thus arranged and accoutred, he

raised twelve centuries of horse from among the princi­

pal citizens; and to the three centuries instituted by

Romulus, he added six others, by the same names assign­

ed them at their first institution. Ten thousand asses**

were given them to lay out upon horses, out of the trea­

sury; and for the maintenance of these horses, the

:9a. • t .£161 : 9 : 2d.

|| Supernumerary officers; or, according to Varro, aids du-

oamp to the generals and tribunes.

:5i ** £32 : 5 : 104

