280 TITUS LIVIUS" BOOK III.

You have more occasion for the shield . than the

sward. He is brought low enough, who, degraded

from his authority must live on a level with others,

without the power of committing, or the trouble of re-

senting injuries. If at any time you would wish to

appear formidable, it must be when you have re­

covered your magistrates and your laws, when you will

have the power in your own hands, and our lives and

'fortunes at your disposal. Then, and not tilt then,

can you determine the fate of any one. For the pre­

sent, be satisfied with the recovery of your liberty."

CHAP. LIV.

Restoration o/ the Consulate and tribunitian power.

A HE whole assembly, having unanimously submitted

their pretensions to the deputies, they. promised to return

soon with the ratification of their demands. When, on

their return, they laid the people's claims before the

senators; the rest of the decemvirs, beyond all expecta­

tion, finding no mention made of punishing them, ob­

jected to nothing; but Appius, the most cruel and odi­

ous wretch of the whole, measuring the people's hatred

of him, by his to them, said, "I am not ignorant of the

"fate that awaits me. I see ihat we are only reserved

"for a greater condemnation, when our enemies have

got arms in their hands. Nothing but blood will sa­

tisfy their malice. I am ready nevertheless, to divest

myself of the decemvirate; and the sooner the bet­

ter." The senate passed a decree, " That the

decemvirs should instantly depose themselves; that the

high-priest Q, . Funus, should create tribunes of the

people; and that none should be liable to prosecution

"upon account of the desertion of the soldiers, or re-

"moval of the people to Mount Aventine."

These matters being fmished, and the seuate broke up,

the decemvirs repaired to the forum, and in the assem­

bly of the people, abdicated their office, to the great joy

of the citizens.

The news was immediately carried to the camp by

the deputies, who had all the people that were left in

