CHAP. 49. ROMAN HISTORY. 87

CHAP. XLIX.

"Farquin keeps an armed guard. A. IL C. 220.

J[ HEN Tarquin began to shew away in the regal func­

tion; his arrogance procured him the sirname of proud;

for, he refused to suffer the usual obsequies to be per­

formed for his father-in-law, alledging for a reason, that

"Romulus himself died without that honour." The

principal of the senators, whom he suspected to have

been in Servius's interest, he put to death; and being

sensible, that the base means lie had made use of to raise

himself to the throne, might become a president that

would recoil upon hiaiseU, he never appeared without a

strong guard. For, indeed, he had no legal pretensions

to the crown, but what were founded in violence and in­

justice, having neither obtained the consent of the people,

nor the sanction of the senate. Add to this, that as he

had no hopes of gaining the affections of the people, he

could only support himself on the throne from motives

of fear, the influence of which, that he might make as

universal as possible, in all criminal causes he sat judge

in person, admitting neither the assistance nor advice of

any assessor whatever. This furnished him not only

with an opportunity of butchering and banishing such as

he hated or suspected; but also of confiscating the effects

of those, whom he could charge with no crime, provided

he could enrich himself .with their spoils.

Having by these means, in particular, very much re­

duced the order of the Fathers, he determined to make

no new creation, that the order thus reduced, might,

dwindle into contempt, consequently be the more indif­

ferent that nothing was transacted by their means. He

was the first king, who broke through a rule observed by

all his pr«lo:essors£..pf consulting the senate upon every

emergen^y-i All state affairs he managed by domestic

counsels. ^iVar, peace, treaties, alliances, he made with

whomsoever he choosed; and broke when he pleased, by

himself alone,- without the countenance or consent of se­

nate, or people!

He was at great pains to make himself popular among

