262 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK lit

"pie; nor would they regard their imaginary fasces,

"and pretended authority.

Appius now finding matters come to that pass, that

if he did not oppose impudence on his part, to-spirit on

theirs, there would be an end of decem viral authority:

"you had better be silent," say? he, "than drop a-sin-

"gle word deviating from the question upon which we

"ask your advice." When Valerius refused to he awed

into silence by a mork magistrate, Appius ordered a

lictor to seize him. Valerius then,' from the porch of

the senate-house, called oat to the Romans-for assistance,

but L. Cornelius took Appius in his arms, not out of re­

gard to Valerius, as he pretended, which put an end to

the dispute. By this interposition of Corneliu.% Valerius

was at liberty to speak his sentiments; but as this liberty

extended only to words, the decemvirs still gained their

jiointi Moreover, the consular gentlemen, and elder se­

nators, from an aversion to tribunitian power, which was

not yet eradicated, as they saw the people more attached

to it than to consular government, rather wished that the

decemvirs should afterwards resign their office uncom-

pelled, than that- the people, from their abhorrence to

decemvirs, should get head again. For should the go­

vernment, without a bustle, or popular commotion, re­

turn into the hands of consuls, it was not impossible, but

either by the intervention of wars, or a mild exercise of

the consular government, the people might be brought

to think no more of their tribunes.

Thus was an edict issued for levying an army, with­

out farther interruption from the fathers; and as there

had- been no appeal from the decemviral authority, the

younger citizens answered to their names. After the en­

rolment was fmished, the decemvirs concerted among

themselves who should go out to the war, and who should

head the armies.

Q. Fabius and Appius Claudius were at the head of

the decemvirs; and as there appeared more danger from

the citizens at home, than the enemies abroad, they

thought Appius, from the violence of his temper, was

best calculated to quell any commotions that might arise

in the city. The. disposition of Fabius prompted him

rather to be active in a bad cause, than steady in a good

