4t2 TITUS L1VIUS' BOOK V.

to put many boys at th-e same time nnder the care of

one master; a practice among the Greeks at.this day.

The master who hail the greatest character for erudition,

as is generally the case, had the charge of the youth of

greatest distinction. This man, in time of peace, usual­

ly carried his pupils out before the city, to play aud ex­

ercise themselves. Nor during this war did he discon­

tinue it, sometimes carrying them a little, and sometimes

a greater way from the city. Eut, at last, having found

his opportunity, he decoyed them by play and enter­

taining tales, farther from the gates than usual; first to

the Roman out-posts, then to the camp, till at last he

landed them. quite at Camillas' tent. There he crowned

his villainous action with as villainous a speech, viz. that

he- now delivered Falerii into the hands of the Romans,

putting these young gentlemen under his power, whose

fathers had the principal sway in the city.

When Camillas had heard the scoundrel to an end,

he replied, ' Execrable wretch, thou dost not approach

either a general, or a people, with thy impious pre­

sent, like thyself. With the Falisci, we have indeed

no express-and formal alliance ; but that which nature

hath established between all men, both does and shalt

subsist between us. War has its rights, and so has

peace, and we have learned to make it with no less

justice than valour. We are in arms, it is true, but

not against that age, which is spared even in cities

taken by storm, but against men, armed likeourselves;

and these too, who without any injury or provocation

from us, attacked the Roman camp at Veii: them*

to the utmost of thy power, thou hast exceeded, by a

crime of an extraordinary nature. But, as for me, I

shall conquer, as at Veii, by Roman arts, by valour,

works, and arms.'

The traitor was then stripped, his hands tied behind

his back, and then delivered up to his pupils, who were

furnished with rods, to whip him all the way to the city.

This spectacle brought prodigious crowds of people,

when the magistrates convened the senate, to deliberate

about an affair that seemed so extraordinary. So great

a revolution in their sentiments did this circumstance

effect, that they who before had been so inflamed with

hatred and resentment, that they would have preferred

