242 TITUS LIVIUS' > BOOK III.

CHAP. XXVII. - .

The Dictator marches to the Consul's relief.

JL HE dictator, next morning, went into the forum, and

named for his general of the horse, L. Taiquitius, a Pa­

trician, who had distinguished himself by his bravery

above all the Roman youth; but, being too poor to keep

a horse, had till then never served but in the infantry.

With him he repaired to the assembly, proclaimed a va­

cation in all judiciary proceedings, ordered the shops

throughout the city to be shut up, a suspension of all la­

bour whatever, and all the citizens able to bear arms, to

meet him before sun-set, in the field of Mars, with their

arms, dressed provisions for five days, and each furnish­

ed with twelve stakes for a pallisade. Whoever through

age was disqualified for the service, was ordered to dress

provisions for the soldier who lived nearest him, whilst be

famished himself with stakes, and got ready his arms.

In consequence of this order, the youth dispersed them­

selves up and down in quest of stakes, taking them as

they occurred, without the least interruption. They all

assembled without the least delay, as the dictator had

ordered.

The dictator then at the head of the infantry, and his

general of horse at the head of the cavalry, led out the

troops drawn up, not only for marching, but for action,

should occasion require it. Each corps was animated,

by arguments drawn from the present emergency. They

were requested, "to march with expedition, in order to

come np with the enemy in the night, as the consul

and a Roman army had now been besieged for three

days. That it was impossible to say what a day or

night might bring forth, as a single moment often de­

termined the greatest and most important event."

To gratify their leaders, the soldiers addressing each

other, cried out, " March out, ensign; follow soldier.'*

About the miiidle of the night, they arrived at the Algi-

dus, and when they perceived themselves not far from

the enemy, gave orders to halt.

