Gn*r. 42. ROSTA'flF BISTORT. . 263

^ • . /

ofie. For so prevalent had the influence of his col­

leagues in the decemvirate been on Fabius, who former­

ly had acted with great propriety, Jioth in peace and in

war,. that he now thought it a greater honour to be

thought like Appius, than like his former self. He had

the management of the Sabine war assigned him, in

which commission,.Man. Rabnleius, andQ. Pcutilius were

joined. M. Cornelius was sent to the Algidus, with L.

Miiuicius, T. Antonius, CIESO Duilius, and M. Sergius.

Sp. Oppius was appointed- to assist Appius in defending,

the city ; and for that purpose, they were left equally in­

vested with the whole extent of decemviral authority.

CHAP. XLH.

Ill conduct of the Roman armies.

JL HE republic suffered no less by mismanagement

abroad, than at home. The generals were indeed no-­

otherwise to blame, than in having rendered themselves

odious to the citizens:, for,. in all other respects, the sol­

diers were totally culpable. For, that nothing. might

succeed under the direction and management of the de­

cemvirs, they suffered themselves to be beat, to their

own disgrace, and that of their commanders. Their

armies were routed by the Sabines at Eretum, and by

the /Equi at the Algid us. The army at Eretum took

the opportunity of the darkness of night, to make their

escape to a rising. ground- nearer, the city,, between

Fidenae and Crustumeria,. where they, immediately threw

up entrenchment?. Thither, the enemy pursued them,

but could never bring them to a battle on fair ground, as

they chose rather to trust to their situation and ramparts,

than to their valour and arms..

The army at the Algidus behaved still worse, and in

consequence received a more terrible overthrow: for,

having lost their camp, and deprived of all their military

accoutrements, they made the best of their way to Tus-

culum, trusting for subsistence and protection to the

fidelity and generosity. of their allies, in which they were

by no means disappointed. Rome was so alarmed withj

these dreadful accounts, that the senators, without mind,-­

