382 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK IV.

they would escape with impunity for this insult; but

bemg thus abandoned by their countrymen, the war

with them was very inconsiderable, for they lost both

their citv and its territory, by one slight engagement and

a short siegeyL

L. Sextos, one of the popular tribunes, attempted to

bring ki a bill for sending a colony to Volse, as had

been done to Lavicum. It ended in nothing, by reason

of the dissent of his colleagues, who declared that they

would sutler no bill to pass in the assembly of the com­

mons, without the con'sent of the senate. Next year, the

jEqui having recovered Voice, peopled it anew, and

strengthened the fortifications of the place, during the

presidency of Quinctius Fabius Vibulanus for the second

time, Cn-. Cornelius Cossns, L. Valerius Potitus, and

Posthumius Regillensis*, in quality of military tribunes

with consular power.

To Posibutnius was committed the management of the

war against the 2Equi. He was a man of a vile disposi­

tion, which became more visible in his victory, than

during the dependence of the war: For, having raised

an arniy with great expedition, and marched against

V<-lie, in several skirmishes he humbled the 55qui, and

at last made himself master of the city, when he turn­

ed the insolence of his temper from the enemy, upon

his fellow-citizens; and though whilst he was carrying

on the siege, he had published that the soldiers should

have the plunder after it was taken, he broke his word.

I rather think that the resentment of the army origi­

nated in this circumstance, than because the city, which

had been lately plundered, and peopled -with a new co­

lony, did not produce so large a booty as this tribune

had given out. From whatever source this disgnst pro­

ceeded, he inflamed it much, upon his return to ihe city,

being recalled by his colleagues on account of the dust

raised by the tribunes. An expression of his was taken

notice of in the assembly, equally ridiculous and extra­

vagant. As Sextius, one of the tribunes, was proposing

* Regillensiswasa.sirname common to two families; theClsn-  
dian and Posthumian to the first, because they came from Regil-

tum; to the last, in honour of the victory gained by Posthumius

over the Latins at the lake Regiilns.

