Chap. 25. ROMAN HISTORY. 439

nity of these gentlemen, saved them from harm; and

the people, ashamed of their resentment, behaved with

more delicacy for the future. Camillus we'nt from place

to place, loudly declaiming; * That he was not at all sur-

,' prised to see the people seized with madness, seeing

'they had nothing less at heart, than the performance

'of their vows to the gods; he would say nothing of

'* the contribution, which had more the appearance of

'an alms, than a tenth of the spoil. Each of the indi-

* viduals had bound himself to the performance, so that  
'the state was free. But he was obliged in conscience

'to tell them one thing, that the tenth of the moveable

* part of the spoils had only been set apart for the god,

'whilst the captive city and all the territory belonging'

* to it, were comprehended in his vow.'

The senate, pretending to be perplexed about this

scnuple, referred the whole to the pontiffs, who in con­

cert with Camillus, declared, as the opinion of their col­

lege, that a tenth of whatever had belonged to the Ve-

jentes, before the dictator made his vow, and had, after

he had made the vow, fallen into the hands of the Ro­

mans, ought to be sacred to Apollo. In consequence of

this judgment, the city and territory were valued, and

a tenth of the estimate given out of the treasury to the

military tribunes, to be given in exchange for gold. But

as there was not enough of this metal to be had in Rome,

the Ladies having had several meetings to deliberate on

that affair, with one consent made offer of their service

to the military tribunes, and in consequence thereof;

brought their gold and all their ornaments to the trea­

sury.

Never were thev fathers better pleased with any thing,

than with this instance of complaisance in the ladies;

in return for which generosity, it is said, they conferred

-the honour on them, of riding in covered chariots to the  
sacrifices and public games, and in open phaetons on

festival and other days. The gold from each was weigh­

ed*, and valued, so as the equivalent might be return­

ed" them in money, and they fixed on a massy cup to be

* Plutarch makes that gold amount to eight talents, an enor­  
mous sum for those times, amounting nearly in value to £ 12,000-

Sterling:. ^: . *'

