CUAP. 47. ROMAN HISTORY. 471'

up his arms, and spreading the alarm, flew to the ram­

part, and whilst the rest were in a mighty consternation,

•with the boss of his buckler he beat back a Gaul, who

had by that time reached the top of the battlement, and

he, in his fall, tumbled down those who were next

him, whilst Manlius killed others, who throwing down

their arms in the utmost terror, hung by their hands

on the rocks. By this time too; others had crowdedto the

place, and with stones and darts precipitated the rest, so

that the whole of these adventurers tumbled headlong

from the top to the bottom of the rock.

When the confusion was over, the rest of the night

was devoted to repose, as far as could be enjoyed after

such an alarm, and solicitude for the danger that was

past. Early next morning, the military tribunes assem­

bler! the troops by sound of trumpet, in onler to dispense

rewards and punishments, as merit, or demerit should

appear. First of all, Manlius was praised for his noble

exertions; and had presents, not.only from ihe military*

tribunes, but from all the soldier*; for each of them car­

ried to his house, which stood in the citadel, half a pound

meal, and a measure of wine containing five ounces.

reward, considerable only as it was a singular proof of

their affection, when in the extreme scarcuy of provi­

sions, they could part with their very living, to do ho­

nour to the merit of one man.

The centinels on that post, where the enemy had

escaped their vigilance and climbed up the rock, were

called upon next; and though Sulpicius, the military

tribune. sentenced them all to die according to the laws

of military 'iscipline, yet as all the soldiers faid the blame

upon one centinel, he 'was afraid oF a in'iM'v an"! so

respited the rest. With the approbation of the whole,

he who was undeniably in the wrong, was thrown over

jhe rock. From thenceforth, the guards were kept on

both sides with more attention. On the part of the Gauls,

because it was commonty talked, that a correspondence

was kept up between Roait and Veii; and on thai of the

Romans, from a retrospect of the danger they had escap­

ed in the night. i

