•CHAP. 37. ROMAN HISTORY. 255

CHAP. XXXVII.

The Decemvirs introduce licentiousness,

J. HEY then began to turn theiv eyes towards the Pa­

tricians, to see if possibly they could discover any hope

of liberty from those, from whom they had before ap­

prehended slavery, the dread of which had precipitated

the commonwealth into this deplorable condition. The

principal senators detested the decemvirs, but did not

love the plebeians. They were far from approving of

the present proceedings, but they thought the people

only met with their deserts. Wherefore, they were in

no haste to relieve those, who, through a blind passion

for liberty, had plunged themselves into slavery; nor

were they sorry to see their chains grow every day more

heavy, in hopes that a feeling of their miseries might

awaken in them a desire of the re-establishment -of con­

suls, and the ancient form of government.

The greater part of the year was already past, when

two tables of laws were drawn up to be added to the

tenth, as had been promulgated the year before: and

there now remained no pretext for continuing themselves

in the decemvirate, so that the ides of May were ex­

pected with the utmost anxiety and impatience, when

an assembly should be held for the election of consuls.

How the tribunitian power, the bulwark of Plebeian

liberty, after the interruption it had met with, was to

be resumed, was matter of great speculation to the peo­

ple. In the mean time, not a syllable was mentioned of

a new election, and the decemvirs, who at first had been

attended by the tribunes, more effectually to gain the

people, were accompanied now by a band of young Pa­

tricians, who appeared in their retinue as a guard, and

constantly surrounded their tribunals, harassing and

plundering the people; insomuch, that whatever occur­

red worth having, became the perquisite of the strongest

arm. Nay, they did not spare the persons of the citi­

zens; some were whipped with rods like slaves, whilst

others perished by the axe like criminals; and that

cruelty might not-go unrewarded, a confiscation of estate

