CHAP. 45. ROMAN HISTORY. 81

voured to extend his empire by good policy, at the same

time that he added to the dignity of the city.

At that time, there was a temple of Diana at Ephesus,

much celebrated. It is reported to have been built by

contributions from all the states of Asia. Servius took

occasion to commend these people very highly, for their

unanimity in matters of religion, before the Latin no­

bility, with whom, both in his public and private capfi-

city, he had studied to live on the most friendly footing J

and by resuming the subject frequently, be at last carried

his point so far, that the Latins joined with the Romans,

in the expence of building a temple to Dtana. This was

a plain acknowledgment, that Rome was their capital,

a point, which they had often disputed with their swords.

Although the Latins now seemed to have dropped all

concern about what they had so often attempted to esta­

blish in vain; fortune seemed to point out to one of the

Sabines, an opportunity of recovering the superiority to

his country, by a private scheme of his own. A certain

Sabine had a heifer brought forth among his cattle, re­

markable for her size and beauty. Her horns, which

were hung up in the porch of the temple of Diana, re­

mained for many ages, a monument of her enormous

bulk. The thing was considered, and it could not well

be doubted, in the light of a prodigy, and the sooth-savers

had foretold, that the man who should sacrifice this heifef

to Diana, should certainly fix the sovereignty of his coun­

try. This prediction had also reached the ears of the

high priest of Diana. The Sabine, on the first day that

seemed proper for. the sacrifice, drove the heifer to Rome,

led her to the temple of Diana, and set her before the al­

tar. Then the Roman priest, struck with the extraordi­

nary size of the -victim, which had been so much cele­

brated by fame, at the same time, recollecting the pre­

diction, thus addresses the Sabine: " What do you pro-

"pose, friend?" says he, " to offer sacrifice to Dtana,

"with unclean hands? why do you not first wash your-

"self in running water? The Tiber runs in the valley

"below."

The stranger being impressed with a scruple of con­

science, and wishing that every thing might be in such

a train, that the event might turn out agreeable to the

