18 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK I.

/m id able junction, united both nations under one name

as well as government, and called them both Latins:

Nor from that moment did the Aborigines, in point of

zeal and loyality, chow themselves, in any instance, less

attached than the Trojans, to their king ./Eneas. Where­

fore relying on the affections of his united subjects, who

became more strongly cemented every day, although the

power of the Etrurians was so considerable, that their.

fame was not only diffused all over the inland country,

but also along the western coast, from the Alps to the

• straights of Messina; and, though he could have defend­

ed himself within his walls, he led his army out to the

field. The Latins here were once more victorious; but

.SLneas was among the slain'. By whatever name he has

a right or title to be called, he was buried on the banks

of Numicius *, and is invoked by the name of Jupiter

Indigei.

CHAP. III. .

Tht reign of Ascanius in Alba ; of JEneas Sylvius, and the

rest of the Sylvian family.

.A.SCAN1US, the son of /Eneas, was too young to take

upon himself the administration; notwithstanding of

which, his dominions came unimpaired into his hands,

when of age. For such were the abilities and address

of Lavinia, that during his minority, Latium, andwhere-

ever his grandfather's or father's sovereignty extended,

stood firm in his favour, under her regency. I question

much, (for who would assert for truth, a circumstance of

a date so ancient) whether this Ascanius was the son of

Lavinia, or one born before him, of Creusa, before the

destruction of Troy, which Julius Ascanius, his father's

companion in his flight, the Julian family affect to call

the author of their name?

This Ascanius, wherever, or of whomsoever born, is

^by all admitted to have been the son of /Eneas. He

('finding Lavinium was overstocked with inhabitants, left

'that city, flourishing and opulent as it was, considering

*Tlio de Nimi. It ran close by tavinium.

