122 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK II.

blockade, and seventy of the famine, the slaves would all

continue faithful, but some of them desert to the enemy.

It happened accordingly, that they were informed by

a deserter, a much greater number had crossed the river

now, from a persuasion, tltat they were to carry off all

the cattle together. Upon this, Valerius orders Titus

Herminius to post himself with a pretty considerable

party, on the Gabinian way, about two miles from the

city, so as they might not be observed; Spurius Lartius

to post himself at the gate of Collina, with a select corps

of light armed youth, till the enemy should pass, and

then to throw. himself between them and the river, to

prevent their return.'

Titos Lucretius, the fcther consul, sallied out at the

port Naevia, with some companies of foot, whilst Vale­

rius himself led some select cohorts out from mount Cae-

lius; and these were the first that were observed by the

enemy. The moment Herminius heard the noise, he

burst from his concealment; and the Etrurians having

now turned to charge Valerius, he galled them in the

rear. The alarm was given on the right and left, from

the ports Colliiia and Naevia. Thus these marauders

were surrounded and cut to pieces, being too weak for

resistance, and every avenue blocked up, that could fa­

cilitate their escape. This proved a lesson to the Etru­

rians, with regard to straggling parties.

CHAP. XII.

Macius adventure.

NOTWITHSTANDING of all this, the blockade was

continued, wh:!M, at the same time, scarcity, lr well as

a prodigious dearth of provisions prevailed; by which

means, Porsenna was not without hopes, that only by

continumg die. siege, the city would surrender in course.

Thtm Caius 'Mucius, a young Roman of noble birth,

reflecting, with indignation, that the Roman people,

when eni.lave'1 by the hand of iyranny, had never puce

. been blocked up .by any enemy; and that now, when

they were a free and independent people, they were

confmed within tlieir walls by the Etrurians, an erieroyv

