SI* TITUS LI VMS' Boon IB.

Rome was in the most dreadful consternation; not

that they wanted the means of defence, but because the

alarm was sa sudden and unexpected. The government

of the city bad, at that time, been committed to Q. Fabius.

He armed all the youth; and having posted guards in

proper places, put the city in a state of safety and quiet.

Wherefore, as the enemy, having seized upon all th«y

could in the adjacent countries, were fetching a compass

to return home, not daring to advance nearer the city,

and growing more careless in their march, the fa-rthe^

they got from it, fell in with the consul Lucretius, pre­

viously informed of their route by his scouts, and every

way prepared for action. Wherefore, the courage of the

soldiers being already wound up to the highest pitch,

they charged the confederates, who were struck with a

sudden panic, and though somewhat inferior in point of

numbers, gave them a total overthrow. They fled- into

the valleys, whence the outlets were difficult, and so were

surrounded on all sides. There the whole nation of the

Volsci was almost all cut to pieces.

Some annals ascertain the number of the slain in the

action and the flight, to be' 14,470, the number of pri­

soners 1,250, and add, that twenty-seven standards were

brought out of the field. It is very possible this number

of killed may be somewhat exaggerated; but it is very

certain, however, that the slaughter was prodigious.—

The victorious consul returned with a great booty, back

to his camp.

Then both consuls encamped together; and the jEqui

and Volsci also joined the wreck of their armies. A bat­

tle was the consequence, the 'bird this year, [A. R. 291.]

Fortune still contmuing to side with the Roman*; for

the enemy were routed, and their camp taken.

CHAP. IX.

A law proposed to retrench the power of the Consuls, and

opposed by 2. Fabius.

.l HUS, once more, did the Roman state resume its for­

mer splendour: But success abroad, was immediately

productive of commotions at home. C. Terentillus Arsa,

was this year tribune of the people. He thinking the

