CHAP. 47. ROMAN HISTORY. S3

The'savage Tullia was prodigiously fretted, ibat she

could find in her husband no spark of spirit or ambition;

i'or which reason, she was all in raptures with Lucius;

him she admired; it was he that deserved the name of a

,uau :•—he was indeed of the blood royal. Her sister she

despised, who, though she was matched with a man of

spirit, had not the resolution of a woman. A similitude

of tempers soon produced an intimacy between them;

for the wicked are the fittest company for each other.

However, this ambitious woman laid the foundation of

all the tragical scenes that ensued. She had been in use

to have private conversations with her sister's husband,

when she threw out the bitterest invectives against her

husband to his brother, and against her sister to her hus­

band j and insisted that it were better they were both

free, than so improperly matched, to be obliged to lan­

guish in obscurity, owing to the deadness of those with

whom they were respectively connected. If the gods

had given her the husband she merited, she would soon

have seen the sovereign power in he'r own family, which

she now sees in her father's.

JJy such insinuations, the young man quickly imbibed

all the venom of her malignant soul. Aruns Tarquinius'

and the younger Tullia, were buried almost at the same

time, to make way for a new connection, which accord­

ingly happened, rather without opposition from Servius,

than with his consent.

CHAP. XLVII.

Tarquin usurps the throne,

.T.ROM this period Tullius's old age became every day

more burthensome, and his throne more uneasy. For,

alter one <rime, this fury immediately set about contriv­

ing another, fseiiher night nor day did she sutFer her

husband to rest, lest the parricides they had committed

should lc*e their intended eflect. "What!" said she,

"do you think I wanted a man merely to be my hus-

"band, with whom I might live a slave in obscurity?

"Na; give me a man. who thinks he is not unworthy of

