4is TITUS LIVIUS' Boon V.

tcrest, to divert the public odium from themselves, ran

open mouthed against Sergiusand Virginius, the mititary

tribunes of the former year, and cited them to take their

trial.

They made open proclamation, ' That to such as

groaned under the burden of taxes, levies, a tedious

campaign, and the prolongation of the war; who la­

menied the loss of their children, brothers, kinsmen,

and friends, that fatal day at Veii, they offered a fair

occasion to avenge themselves and the public, upon

the heads of two persons, Sergius and Virginius, who

were equally culpable and responsible.for all the mis­

fortunes that had happened. Nor did this appear more

evidently from the indictment laid against them by the

prosecutor, than the confession of ihe criminals, who

being equally conscious each of his own guilt, had laid

the blame upon one another, Virginius reproaching

Sergius with cowardice, and Sergius retorting on Vir­

ginius, his treachery.' That it was impossible they

could have acted a part so shamefully inconsistent,

without the concurrence of the fathers, who were in

concert, and equally fraudulent with them. With a

view to protract the war, they had before that time

given the Vejentes an opportunity of setting fire to

their works; that now they had sacrificed the army,

and delivered up the Roman camp to the Falisci. That

their whole plan was to keep the youth, till they grew

gray, before Veii, that the tribunes might not have it

in their power to bring in a bill about the partition of

lands, or any thing else respecting the interest of the

commons, as they had not a sufficient number of citizens

to support their bills, and make head against the in­

trigues of the nobles. That these delinquents had

sentence already passed against them by the senate,

the Roman people, and by their own colleagues. For

by a decree of the senate, they were set aside as magi­

strates, and when they refused to abdicate in terms of

that order; they were compelled to do it by their col-

leagues, for fear of a dictator. Nor was this all, for

the Roman people proceeded to make a new election,

not as usual, on the 13th of December, but iostautly on

the 1 st of October; because, had they continued any

longer in office, this republic must have sunk at »nce.

