158 TITUS UVIUS' BOOK II.

impelled by fresh resentment, they conferred together

about making war upon Home. They easily saw, that

there would be some difficulty in engaging th« Volsci to

take up arms, which they had done so often to their own

ruin. Their spirits were broke by being so often en­

gaged in war; and moreover, their youth had suffered

exceedingly by the late plague. Length of time had al­

most extinguished the hatred between the two nations,

for which reason, they judged that it would require,

•some address to rekindle the flame, by means of some

fresh indignity.

CHAP. XXXVI.

A strange Phenomenon.

Y ERY opportunely for their purpose, preparations

were gomg on at Borne, for renewmg the great games

upon the following account. In the morning of the

tlay, in which they had been represented, the master

of "a slave had obliged him to carry a cross, and whipt

Jhim severely through the middle of the Circus; notwith­

standing of which, the exhibition went on, as if there

had been nothing ominous in the matter. After some

time had elapsed, Jupiter appeared in a dream to T.

Atinius, a plebeian, and told him, " That he was not

"satisfied with the person who led up the dance in the

"last games, and unless they were renewed with mag-

"niticence, the state would repent it.—Go, say* he,

** and tell these things to youf consuls."

The man.. although he was not without a sense of re­

ligion, yet he was so ashamed to approach men of that

dignified character, with a story that might expose bim

to ridicule, tkut itls modesty prevailed over his fear,

This hesitation cost him dear. In a few days, his son

dropped down dead. That he might be at no loss to

find out the cause of this sudden disaster, whilst he was

mourning for his loss, the same vision appeared to him

again in his sleep, and seemed to ask him repeatedly,

"If he had not been sufficiently punished for his con-

•" tempt of the gods; but if he did not instantly go and

"tell the consuls, something still more dreadful would

J< befall him."

