29+ TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK III.

victory. The Sabines, however, were not so confident

of their strength, as to exclude stratagem. For, in

drawing up in battalia, they reserved two thousand men

without their ranks, who were to charge the left wing

of«the Romans, in the heat of action. This corps-de-

reserve, charging furiously in flank, had almost sur­

rounded the left wing, when two squadrons of Roman

cavalry, consisting of about six hundred, dismountmg,

flew toi the van, to support those who seemed already-to

be giving way, and boldly charging the enemy, they

not only shared the danger in common with the foot,

but inspired them with ardour, through a sense of shame.

They blushed to see the cavalry doing double duty; and

behaving more gallantly, when dismounted, than they

themselves had done.

CHAP. LXIII.

Tlie Sabines beat. The Consuls voted a triumph by the

people.

LJ PON this they rallied, and returned to the post they

'had abandoned, when the battle was not only renewed,

but the opposite wing of the Sabincs gave way. The

horse, covered by the foot, remounted, and galloping to

the other wing of the army, informed them of the vic­

tory; at the same time, charging the enemy, who were

not a little confounded, to find that the flower of their

army was broke. Thus the Roman horse distinguished

themselves by prodigies of valour. The consul was all

alertness; he neglected nothing. The brave he com­

mended ; those whose ardour seemed less conspicuous, he

reprimanded, which had a proper effect, for they did not

fail to redouble their effort?, a sense of shame operating

on the one, as much as commendations did on the other.

Now, loud huzzas were raised, and charging on all sides

in close battalia; the enemy, who were no longer able to

stand the impetuous ardour of the Romans, were put to

flight.

The Sabines, thus routed, and scattered through the

fields, left their camp a prey to the enemy, where the

Romans found, not only the spoils which had beep tnteo

