CHAF. 52. ROMAN HISTORY, 477

* fatigue, and was never brought to a conclusion, till by

* advice of the gods, the water was drawn off from the  
'Alban Lake. And what, after all, shall I say of the

* fatal blow which Rome lately received? That did not

* happen, till we had been forwarned by a miraculous  
'voice, that the Gauls were coming, which we slighted;

'nor till the law of cations had been violated by our am-

* bassadors, and we, regardless of our duty to the gods,  
'shewed an unpardonable remissness in punishing them.

'This, therefore, is the source of all we have suffered

'from godsand men: we have been conquered, enslaved,

'and ransomed, as examples to all the world. Our uus-

.' fortunes, at that time, put us in mind of the duties of

'religion. We fled to the capitoI. to throw ourselves

* upon the -protection of the gods: we sat down in the  
'august abode of Jupiter the greatest and the best.

'Amidst the general devastation, some of our sacred

'things we concealed under ground, and others we car-

'ried to the neighbouring cities, where our enemies

'could not come at them. Though thus abandoned by

'heaven and earth, we never omitted the worship of the

'gods; and what is the consequence? Why, they have

• restored us our country-victory, the Roman name, and

'military glory, which **e had forfeited. And, as for the

'enemy, who blinded .with their avarice, had broke

'their faith and capitulation in weighing the gold,

'they struck them with terror, put them to flight, and

'delivered them to certain slaughter.

. CHAP. LH.

1 In Continuation.

JN OW having before our eyes, so many monuments

« of the good and evil occasioned by our respect or con­

tempt of the gods, do you perceive, gentlemen, into

what an abyss of crimes, scarce escaped, as we are,

from the wreck of our faults and misfortunes, we are

now going to plunge ourselves? We inhabit a city,

built in consequence of auspices and auguries. There

is not a single spot in it, where you will not perceive

legible traces of the gods and religion. Nay, the very

places for performing our most solemn sacrifices, are as.

fixed as the days for their celebration. Would yop

