458 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK V.

to fortify it with an entrenchment, to which they might

retreat in case of a defeat: and equally regardless of the

gods, 33 they had been deficient in human precaution,

without auspices, without sacrifices, they drew up their

army, extending the wing? , that they might not be sur­

rounded by their enemies numbers. But, although by

extending their wings in that manner, they had thinned

and weakened their centre to a great degree, yet rfHl

their front fell short of that of the enemy's. Upon their

right was a small eminence, where they thought proper

to post a corps-de-reserve; that circumstance occasioned

their first fear and flight, and was the only means of se­

curing their retreat.

Breonus, the Gaulic general, having a strong "appre­

hension, that some design lay concealed in the smallntss

of the enemy's numbers; and imagining that they had

taken possession of the height, with a view to attack him

with this body of reserve, both in rear and flank, the

moment the front lines were engaged, thought it ne­

cessary to begin with charging the reserved troop; con­

vinced, if they were once dislodged, with so great a su­

periority in point of numbers, that he could easily obtain

the victory in the open plain. Thus the Barbarians no^

only had fortune on their side, but the prudent conduct

of an able commander.

-In the other army, neither generals nor soldiers  
showed any thing of the Roman character. A sudden

panic, and the thoughts of escaping, had arrested all their

faculties: nay, so much were they lost to all reflection

whatever, that by far the greater part fled to Veil, an

enemy's capital, with the Tiber in their way, rather than

straight to Rome, to their wives and children. The situ­

ation of the place, for some little time, contributed-to the

defence of the corps-de-reserve. But, whenever the rest

of the army heard the shouts of the Gauls, which seem­

ed to those who stood next, to have been raised from the

flank, and, to the most remote, from their rear, they fled

in a body without striking a stroke, or even returning the

enemy's shout, and so far were they from feeling, that

they had but barely seen this strange enemy. None

of them fell in battle; but in the rout, where the crowd

and hurry of the fugitives incumbered the flight, those

ID the rear were cut to pieces, A great slaughter was

