CHAP. 19. .ROMAN HISTORY. 4$

be quite impracticable, amidst the noise and confusion

of war, to give minds already grown wild with the use

of arms, a relish for the arts of peace, he resolved to sof­

ten and extinguish their martial ardour by degrees, and

therefore builds the temple of Janus, at the end of the

street Argiletum, to be the sign of peace and war: of

war, when operf; of peace, when shut. Twice only,

since the reign of Numa has it been shut; once in the

consulship of Titus Manlius, after the end of the first

punicwar; and a second time in the reign of the Em­

peror Caesar Augustus, after the battle of Actium, which

gave peace by sea and land; a happiness it hath pleased

the gods to grant to our age.

Having made peace with all his neighbours, by trea­

ties or alliances, the temple of Janus was shut; so having

no apprehension of danger from abroad, to prevent li­

centiousness, the concomitant of idleness, in his subjects

at home, whom fear of the enemy, and military exercises

had always kept in order, he had recourse to religion;

proper impressions of which, he conceived would be the

most effectual means of civilizing a multitude, at that

period rough and unpolished to a great degree. But as

even these impressions could be but faint, unless they

were accompanied with something supernatural, he pre­

tends, that in the night time, he was admitted to hold

conferences .with the goddess Egeria, and instructed by

her, he instituted such sacred rites as would be most ac­

ceptable to the gods; to each of whom he also appoint­

ed their respective priests.

And first of all, he made twelve lunar months the

- measure of the year. And because a lunar month does  
not consist of thirty days complete, and some days are

wanting to complete a full solar year, he managed mat­

ters so, by inserting intercalary months, that twenty-

four of these years taken together, should equal the same

number of revolutions, and the days should return to the

tame point in the ecliptic. He likewise distinguished

the days into lawful and unlawful; because on some

days there would be no occasion for calling assemblies of

the people. <

