CHAP. 20. ROMANy HISTORY. 339

Thus the enemy's cavalry, who alone had kept the

victory in suspense, were broke and put to flight. The

dictator, in the mean time, pursued the flying legions,

and drove them back to the camp with prodigious slaugh­

ter. Many of the Fidenates being acquainted with the

country, escaped to .the mountains. Cossus crossed the

Tiber with his cavalry, and returned to Rome loaded

with spoils from the territory of the Vejentes. During

the battle, there was also a skirmish at the Roman camp,

with the party, which, as was formerly observed, had

been detached thither by Tolumnius. Fabius Vibulanus

first defended the works by posting his men round them,

but afterwards made a sally at the gate on the right of

the Principia,* with the Triarria, and surprised the

enemy, wholly intent upon forcing the lines. Terror

and confusion, on the part of the enemy -was the con­

sequence of this manoeuvre; but the slaughter was not

considerable, as there were but few engaged, though

the'rout was as general, and no less confused, than in

the field of battle.

Ti

CHAP. XX.

COSMS presents JOpima Spolia to Jupiter Feretriia.

HE Roman army having thus been everywhere vic­

torious, the dictator, by decree of the senaic, and order

of the people, entered Rome in triumph; but what prin­

cipally attracted the public attention in the procession,

was Cossus bearing the spoils of the king, killed with his

own hand. The soldiers sung rude verses to his praise,

comparing him to Romulus. He hung up these spoils in

the temple of Jupiter Feretrius, near those of Romulus,

at that time the only spoils that bore the name of Opima,

presenting them with a solemn dedication. All the

while, he drew the eyes of the citizens from the dictator's

chariot, and fixed them on himself, so that he engrossed

* The Roman camp was a quadrangle, divided into two prin­  
cipal parts, between which was a spot of ground, about 100 feet

long, called the Principte The camp had four gates : in the front,

the Praetorian; in the rear the Decumena; in the right, the

Principals Dextta ; and on.tlie left, the Principal Lseva. ^

