SO TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK I.

children:—that now they ought to soften their re­

sentment, and surrender their hearts to those men, to

whom fortune had given possession of their persons.

•—That from wrongs and injuries, love and friendship

had often proceeded; and that they would find their

husbands behave themselves with so tender an affec-

'tion, as would leave them no cause to regret the loss

'of either parents or country."

To these soothing expostulations, we may add the ca­

resses of the husbands, pleading in excuse the ardour of

their passion and violence of their love; pleas, which

seldom fail to operate with success on the female heart.

CHAP. X.

Opima Spolia presented to Jupiter Feretriui.

.DY this time ihe passion of the ladies had greatly sub­

sided; but their parents all the while were going about

in a pitiful dress, endeavouring by tears and lamenta­

tions, to stir up their states to revenge: nor did they

confine their complaints to their own country, but as­

sembled from all quarters to Titus Tatius, king of the

Sabines, to whom, as being the most conspicuous cha­

racter in these countries, all embassies were addressed.

The Cseninenses, Crustumini, and Antemnates, had their

share in the indignity. To them Titus and his Sabines

seemed slow and inactive, for which reason, having

formed a triple alliance among themselves, they prepare

for hostilities.

Stilj were the motions of the Crustumini and Antem­

nates too slow for the ardour and fury of the Caeninenses,

so that they alone made an incursion upon the Roman

territories; but Romulus meeting them with his army,

as they were ravaging the country, in straggling parties,

soon convinced them in a slight skirmish, that fury, un­

supported by strength, is impotent in the extreme. Their

army is defeated, routed, and pursued. Romulus killed

their king with his own hand, and stripped him of his

armour. Their general being slain, the city scarce stood

an attack. Then Romulus returning with his victorious

