6« TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK I.

&

Ancus. The number of inhabitants being so considerably

increased, in such a multitude, to distinguish between a

good action and a bad, was no easy matter; so that many

secret acts of villainy'were committed. Wherefore, to

check such growing licentiousness, he built a prison in

the heart of the city, overlooking the forum.-«lJnder the

auspices of Ancus, the city w^,not only enlarged, but

the Roman territories extended.\J

The forest Micsia was taken from the Vejentes, the

Roman domain carried out to the sea, Ostia built at the

mouth of the Tiber, salt-pits dug about it; and, in grati^

tude for his extraordinary success, he enlarged the tem­

ple of Jupiter Feretrfts.

CHAP. XXXIV.

Luctano coma to Rome.

J.N the reign of Ancus, Lucumo, a man of great sub­

stance and address, came to settle at Rome. Ambition,

and the hopes of rising to honours in the state, a thing

he found quite impracticable in his native Tarquinii, as

Iiis father was a foreigner, were the leading motives to

this measure. He was the son of Damaratus of Corinth,

who having fled from his country for seditious practices,

.happened to settle at Tarquinii, where he married, and

had two sons, Lucumo and Aruns. Lucumo survived his

4'ather, and succeeded to his estate; but Aruns died be­

fore him, leaving his wife pregnant. The father did not

long survive him, and being ignorant of the circumstance

of his step-daughter's pregnancy, made no provision for

jt in his will. The posthumous grand-child, having been

disinherited before he was born, was, from that very cir­

cumstance, called Egerius:

Lucumo, on the other hand, having now become sole

heir of his father's fortune, and his spirts rising with his

circumstances, became still more elevated upon his mar­

riage with Tanaquil, a lady of great distinction, who

could not easily bear the thoughts, that the rank of the

man she had married, should be below what her birth

and high connections entitled her husband to have. In

short, disdaining to live in her native city, where her

- nsband was not respected according to his merit, be­  

