56 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK I.

the mountains. To the Vejentes, Tullus opposes his

Romans, and to the Fidenates, the Albans. Mettus,

as destitute of courage, as of honour, durst neither main­

tain his post, nor pass over at once to the enemy, but

withdrew imperceptibly up the hills; till fmding he was

sufficiently remote, that he drew up on the eminence;

and to spin out the time, whilst he was still in suspense,

he extended his line. His purp'ose was, whatever way

fortune should flow, to follow the tide.

The Romans, who were posted next them, were struck

with amazement at first, when they saw their flanks left

exposed, by the desertion of their friends; and they in­

stantly dispatch a trooper, at full gallop, to inform the

king, that the Albans were retiring. Tullus, amidst this

consternation vows twelve Salii and temples to Pallor

and Pavor. Then rebuking the trooper, with a voice

loud enough to be heard by the enemy, he orders him

back to his post, telling him, that he had nothing to fear,

for it was by his orders the Albans had made a circuit,

that they might fall on the unguarded rear of the Fide-

nates. He also orders the cavalry to carry their spears

high; by which expedient the greatest part of the Ro­

man foot saw nothing of the motions of the Alban?.

They who observed them, thinking only of what they

had heard from ihc king, fought with the greater ar­

dour. The panic was now transferred to the enemy;

for they had heard distinctly what the king said, and

most of the Fidenates, as being a Roman colony, under­

stood Latin. Wherefore, that their retreat from the

town might not be cut off by the sudden descent of the

Albans, they made the best of their way. Tullus pur­

sues: and that wing where the Fidenates were posted

being thus routed, he falls with redoubled fury on the

Vejentes, who were already disheartened by the flight of

their allies. Nor could they stand so vigorous a charge:

The river, however, which was in their rear, obliged

them to keep in a body. At last when they could stand

it no longer, many of them quitting their arms, threw

themselves headlong into the river; others, whilst they

were deliberating on the banks whether to fight or fly,

were cut to pieces.—This perhaps was tha hardest worl$

ihe Romans ever had.

