38 , TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK I.

the dint of superior strength, and the exertions of his

brave veterans, obtained a complete victory; for he

routed and pursued the enemy, to the gates of' their city,

which, however,. as it was strongly fortified by nature

and art, he did not attempt to take. In his return, he

laid waste their country, not for the sake of plunder, but

from motives of revenge. The Vejentes, no less hum­

bled by these depredations than their tate defeat, sent

deputies to Rome to sue for peace. They were fined ia

a part of their territory; but obtained a truce for an

hundred years.

These are the most remarkable transactions that hap­

pened in the reign of Romulus, both in peace and in war;

none of which seem to discredit his divine original, or

the divinity ascribed to him after his death: neither his

courage in recovering his grandfather's kingdom, the

wisdom of his ptan in building, nor .his (Economy in

establishing his new city by arms and good policy. For

by the strength/it acquired, and the progress it made

under him, it enjoyed profound peace for the space of

forty years after. /He was, however, a greater favourite

with the people than the senate; but above all, particu­

larly dear to the soldiers; of them, he chose three hun­

dred to attend him in arms as a body guard, in peace as

well as in war, and called them Ceteres or light horse. •

R

CHAP. XVI.

Romulus is carried out of sight, and deified.

.OMULUS having thus immortalized his name by the

glory of his actions, as he was haranguing his army, at

a review of his troops, :n a plain beside the Goat's pond,

a storm of hail and thunder rising all of a sudden, hid the

king in so thick a cloud, as carried him quite out of sight.

Hot did he ever after make his appearance among the

people, The Roman youth, having at last got the bet­

ter of their panic, and the day recovered its former calm­

ness and serenity, when they observed the king's chair

empty, although ihey had no doubt that he had been

carried up m the air by the hurricane, as they bad heard

. II': ', '• •- •'''

