SG4. , TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK IV.

with the Volsd was unavoidable, which was also confirm­

ed by dispatches from the Latins and Hernici, importing,

that never upon any former occasion had the Volsci ap­

peared more in earnest, either with respect to the choice

of their generals, or expediting their levies; declaring-

upon all occasions, that they must now bid adieu to arms

and war for ever, and tamely submit to the yoke of ser­

vitude, or no longer shew themselves inferior to those,

with whom' they contended for sovereignty, in personal

bravery, patience under hardships, and military disci­

pline.

These accounts were far from being groundless, though

they seemed to make no great impression on thefathers;

and C. Sempronius, who by lot had the command in that

war, trusting entirely to fortune, as a thing incapable of

change, especially as he led a victorious army against a

'conquered enemy, performed all the duties of his office,

without caution or care; insomuch that there was more of

the Roman discipline to be found in the Volscian army

than in their own. For which reason, fortune, as it has

often happened before, shifted to that side where merit

was most conspicuous.

In the first engagement, which Sempronius .hazarded

without the Ieast precaution or consideration, having

formed no corps-de-reserve, and made a very injudicious

disposition of his horse before the action, the shouts gave

the first intimation of the turn matters were like to take:

these raised by the enemy were brisker and more con­

stant ; whilst on the side of the Romans, they were con­

fused, unequal, faint, and often repeated, and by their

discord, expressive of the fear which had taken possession

within. Encouraged by this, the enemy advanced with

redoubled fury, pressed hard upon them with their shields,

and plied them with their brandished swords On- the

other side, the soldiers siood staring about them, their

helmets nodding on their heaJs, and being totally at a

- loss how to act, ran trembling together in crowds. The  
colours sometimes standing still were abandoned by

the front ranks; at other times they were moved back,

and planted among their own squadrons. As yet'they

had not resolved to fly, nor were the enemyabsolutely

certain of victory. The Romans however, "acted rather

