CHAP. 54. ROMAN HISTORY. «l

JEqui and Volsci, your former enemies, should remove

to Rome? Would you wish them to become Romans,

whilst you were only burghers of Veii? Whether

would you choose, that Rome should be a desert in

your own possession, or to be inhabited by your ene­

mies? Of two alternatives so unaccountable, it is hard

to say which is the more criminal. Would you really

involve yourselves in so much guilt, and expose your­

selves to such infamy, only to save you the trouble of

rebuilding the city? If in all the «ity, a house larger or

more handsome could not be raised, than the cottage

which served our Founder for a palace of old, would it

not be more honourable to dwell in huts like shepherds

and herdsmen, amidst your household gods, and the

temples still existing, than to condemn yourselves to a

public and universal banishment? Did our ancestors,

who were strangers and shepherd?, so quickly rear up

a new city, when there was nothing here but woods

and marshes; and shall we, when the capitol, citadel,

and temples of the gods are still standing and safe, shall

we, I say, think it a mighty matter, to rebuild a city

that has been consumed by fire? Is it not surprising,

that as a community we should hesitate on doing, when

the calamity is general, what every individual would

do, were it his particular case?

CHAP. LIV.

In Continuation.

JjUT in the name of the gods, should a fire, either"

by accident or design, happen at Veii, and the wind,

as might naturally be supposed, spread the flumes so-as

to consume the best part of that city, must we then

shift about from thence to Fidenae, Gabii, or some other

town? Has your native soil no charms to attract your

regard? Has this, our mother country, none at all:

Does our love for our country extend only to roofs and

rafters? Upon honour, I will frankly acknowledge,

though it gives me more pain to call your injustice

than my own misfortune to remembrance, that during

my exile, as often as I thought of my country, these

hills, those fields, the Tiber, the couutry I was accus-

