CHAP. 7. ROMAN HISTORY. 321

CHAP. VII.

Creation of Military Tribunes who soon lay down their

office, because there was an informality in their election.

AN the year 310, from the foundation of Rome, A.

Sempronius Atratinus, L. Atilius, Titus Caecilius, being

chosen military tribunes, lor ihe first time, in the room

of consuls, entered upor. their office accordingly; and

the unanimity \vhiah. subsisted at; home, during their

administration, contributed not a little to maintain peace

abroad. Some authors are silent, with respect to the bill

for electing consuls from among the people, assigning as

a reason for the election of three military tribunes, in­

vested with the authority and ensigns of the consols, that

besides the revolt of the Ardeates, the Romans had, at

the same time upon their hands, a war with the JEi\\i\,

the Volsci, and Vfjentes, too much for the management

of two consuls at the same time.

The establishment of this office, however, was- not

permanent: for, by a decree of the augurs, they laid

down their office in three months after they had enter­

ed upon it, because some essential formality had been

omitted in their election, C. Curtius, the preses at the

Cumitia, having made some mistake in pitching the tent.

About this time, ambassadors came from Ardea, com­

plaining of the injustice done them; but in such terms,

"as showed no intention of renouncing their treaty and

alliance with the Romans, provided a restitution of their

territory could be obtained. The senate returned them

for answer: ' That from the judgment of the people,

'there was no appeal to their tribunal, and as they had

* the sanction of no law, nor precedent for reversing the

* sentence of the people, such a proceeding might be of

* dangerous consequence to that harmony, which ought

* to subsist between the two orders of the state. But, if

* the Ardeates would be good enough to wait for a  
'favourable opportunity, and leave it to the wisdom of

* the senaie, io find means of redressing their grievance,  
'they would have no reason to repent, on a future day,

•- . ci their condescension; nor to imagine, that the senate

