CHAP. 56. , ROMAN HISTORY. 97 -

aud though he made use of the public money, to de­

fray i he expence, in the laborious part, he made the

people the drudges. Though this was a considerable

addition to their military servitude, yet the considera­

tion, that they were building a temple to the gods with

their own hands, induced them to assist in carrying it

on with more cheerfulness than usual. This servitude

was afterwards extended to works less honourable, but

still more laborious, as the construction of galleries in

the circus, and of a large drain under ground, for re­

ceiving and carrying off the refuse of the city; works

so very considerable, that even the magnificence of the

present ago can scarce pretend to equal them.

Whilst the people were engaged in the execution of

these designs, because he thought numbers, for whom he

could not find employment, were a burden to the city,

that the frontiers of his dominions might be better in­

habited, he sent colonies to Circeii* and Sigma, f which

proved a defence to the city, in succeeding ages, both

by sea and land.

Whilst he was engaged in these matters, a terrible

prodigy appeared. A serpent jumping out of a wooden

pillar, spread such terror among-all who saw it, that

they ran directly to the palace. The king was not so

much concerned for fear of danger, as he was solicitous

about what might fojlow. Therefore, though upon other

occasions, the Etrurian diviners were thought sufficienti

yet this phenomenon having impressed him with un­

usual anxiety for his domestic concerns, he resolved to

send to the oracle at Delphi,}; the most famous at that

time in the world.

And not daring to trust the oracle's answer to any

• other, he dispatched two of his sons into Greece, [A. R.

243.] through tracts of land, §at that time, very little,

and seas still less known. Titus and Aruns set out, Lu­

cia* Junius Brutus, Tarquin's nephew, by a sister Tar-

quinia, a young man of a very different turn of mind

from. what he choosed it should appear to be, was of

their retinue.

•

* Monte Circello. f A city in Latium.

J A city in Greece, r.o-,v Delfo, Sabona, and Castri.

