190 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK II.

fathers imagining that all their force would be exerted

now, they chose Appius Claudius for consul, the son of

that Appius, who by long family disputes, was an open

enemy to the commons, and was equally hated by them.

Titus Quinctius was given him for his colleague.

The first thing brought on the carpet, in the begin­

ning of the year, was the law: and, as Volero, who

first moved it, continued firm in its interest, his colleague

"Laetorius, being a later advocate for it, for that reason

exerted himself more strenuously. He was a man of

known valour; and the glory he had purchased in war,

furnished him with resolution and assurance. Volero

was not severe, in any of his discourses, against the

consuls, but confined himself entirely to the law; but

Lai tori us insisted on the excessive pride and cruelty of

Appius and his family, to the peopte, affirming that the

senate, in him, had not created a consul, but a butcher,

to cut the people's throats, and tear them to pieces.

Bred in the camp, he had not words to express his sen­

timents adequate to the freedom which he took. Where­

fore, being at a loss for expression, he cried out, " As

"I do not speak with the same ease, as I act, Romans,

"come hither to-morrow, I will pass the law, or die in

"vour presence."

The tribunes placed themselves in the temple next

day; and the consuls, with all the Patrician order, as­

sembled to oppose the law. Laetorlus ordered the forum

to be cleared of all who had no right to vote; and as

some of the young nobility refused to obey, he ordered

some of them tote seized. The consul Appius insisted,

that the authority ot a tribont extended ouly to the com­

mons: for he was not a Patrician, but a Plebeian magis­

trate, and that he himself had no power to remove them

ty any former precedent, the form of addressing tlum,

being, " Depart, Romans, if it be your pleasure."

lt was easy^ confound Laeionus, by talking fluently

anJ contemptuously of the forms of court. Transported,

however, with passion, he sent his serjeant to the consul,

who, in return, sent his lictor to the tribune, crying out,

that he was only a private person, that he was no ma­

gistrate, and had no right to command; and, without

doubt, the tribune would have suffered violence, had

