CHAT. 21. ROMAN HISTORY. 233

"when the troops took the oath." But the contempt of'

the gods, which reigns so triumphant in our days, was

at that time quite unknown. In these times, men did

not by artful interpretations, contrive to make oaths and

Iaws convenient for their own purposes, but suited their

practice to their oaths and to the laws.

The tribunes finding nowj that they could not prevent

the consuls design,^ consulted'how to delay the army's

march from the city, more especially, as it was rumour­

ed, " That the augurs had been enjoined to attend at

"the lake of Regillus. That the place was to be con-

"•secrated ; where, the auspices once taken, the consuls

miglit treat wiih the people, in order to repeal, by

their votes in the Comitia, all laws that had been ex­

torted at Rome, by the violence of the tribunes. That

there the people would be entirely at the devotion of

the consuls: the freedom of appeal* did not extend

beyond a mile without the city, and the jurisdiction

"of the tribunes, being confmed to the same limits,

"should they go out to the place ol rendezvous, they

"would also, wiih the multitude, be subject to the au-

"thority of the consuls."

These considerations appeared terrible, but what struck

them most sensibly was, that Quinctius frequently de­

clared, " That he" would hold no Comitia for electing

"the consuls; that the state was too much distempered

"for the application of ordinary remedies: That the

"commonwealth stood in need of a dictator, who would

"make all disturbers of the peace, feel the weight of an

"authority, from which there was no appeal."

CHAP. XXI.

A compromise.—The Tribunes re-elected.'

1 HE senate were at this time assembled in the capi-

tol. Thither ran the tribunes, with the multitude, in a

consternation, at their heels; Th.e people, with loud

voices, called sometimes upon the consuls, and some­

times upon the fathers, to compassionate their case:

but the consuls would listen to no intreaties, till the

tribunes had promised to abide by whav the senate

hould judge fit to be done. Theu he reported their

