24S • TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK III. *'

CHAP. XXX.

Fire added to the college of Tribunes. The Sabina de­

feated. A. R. 295.

J[ HESE were the memorable events of the year. The

consular fasces were now transferred to Horatius Pulvil-

Ius, and Q. Miuimus. The beginning of their adminis­

tration was disturbed by no commotions abroad, but the

tribunes and their bill found them sufficient employment

at home: and so violent were they on the head, that

they would very probably have pushed it to the utmost,

if news had not been brought, in the very nick of time,

that the JEqui in the night, had surprized the-Roman

garrison of Corbio, and taken the place by assault.

The senate assembled, and without delay ordered an

army to be raised and led to the Algidus. Wherefore,

waving all disputes about the law for the present, the

whole bustle turned upon the levies. Here the com­

mons, supported by their tribunes, prevailed over the

authority of the consuls, when they were still more

alarmed from another quarter. The Sabines had made a

descent upon the Roman territory, and were advancing

to the wails of the city.

The terror struck by these motions had such weight

with the tribunes that they suffered the levies to go on,

but upon the express condition, that their number should.

be augmented to ten, because they had been constantly

baffled for five years successively, which was a certain

proof that their number was not sufficient for the pro­

tection of the people. The necessity of the times oblig­

ed the senators to comply, but conditionally, that for

the future, the same tribunes should not be re-chosen.

The comltia were immediately held for this new election,

for fear it might not, as they had learned from expe­

rience, be put in execution, if delayed till the end of the

war.

Thu?, in the thirty-sixth year of the tribunitian pow­

er, ten tribunes were created, two out of each olasu, a

method observed ever after. Troops were then raised,

and Minucios marched to chastise the Sabines, but found

