218 BOOK III. TITUS LIVI US'

the forum, " That the war with the Volsci was a mere

"bugbear, and that the Hernici had been previously

"instructed to act their parts. That, at present, no

"open attack was made upon the liberties of the people,

"but they were undermined by artifice. That the

"Volsci, who had been almost exterminated, should,

"in conjunction with the jEqui, without any provoca-

"tion, put their troops in motion, was inconsistent with

"common sense, They must, therefore, look for new

"enemies. A faithFu.1, a neighbouring colony, is de-

"famed. War must be denounced against the innocent

"Antiates, but carried on against the commons of Rome,

whom they were dragging headlong out of the city,

loaded with arms, that by banishing the citizens, or

sending them out of the way, they might have the

tribunes at their mercy. But, that they might not be

deceived, they could assure them, there was no other

point in view, but to evade the law, which would be

the case, if now, whilst it was on the carpet, and whilst

they were in their gowns, they did not take care, how

they were dragged out of the city, or received a yoke

of slavery. If they had only resolution, they should

find assistance. The tribunes were unanimous. There

was no fear of an invasion, nor prospect of danger.

The gods had last year taken care, that their liberty

should be safely protected."

CHAP. XI.

Struggles of the ynwt; Patricians •with the Tribunes.

Impetuosity of Caso, who is appointed a day.

IjUCH were the remonstrances of the tribunes. On

the other hand, the consuls erected their tribunals in their

presence, and began to make the levies." The tribunes

repaired thither wi'.h all haste, and the whote assembly

in their retinue. A few were called on by way of expe­

riment, which produced a tumult yi an instant. When­

ever by order of the consul, a lictor laid hold of any one,

that moment a tribune ordered him <o be released. Nei­

ther party took their measures trom .'he laws, their sole

impendence lay in force and violence, to compass their

designs. The same activity which the tribunes showed

