356 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK. IV.

The Vejentes, elated with their success, sent ambas­

sadors to all the nations of Etruria, boasting that they

had defeated three Roman generals in one pitched battle:

they could not however prevail with any of these siates

openly to espouse their cause, but the hopes <.l plunder

drew volunteers from all quarters. The Fidenates were

the only people who were pleased to ami. And as if it

had been unlawful to commence a war, without some ex­

traordinary guilt on their side, they sullied their arms with

the blood of the new coiouy, as they had, on another

occasion, done with that of the ambassadors, and then

joined the Vejentes. The question now- between the

chiefs of these two nations came to be, whether they

should make Veii, or Fidenae, the seat of the war. Fi-

den& was agreed on as the most proper. Wherefore, cros­

sing the Tiber, the Vejentes carried the war to Fidenae.

Rome was in ihe utmost terror ; wherefore, recallingtheir

army .from .Veii, whose spirits were much depressed on

account of the late miscarriage, a camp was formed be­

fore the gate Collina. Guards were posted on the walls,

the administration of justice was suspended, the shops

were shut, and all things resembled a camp, more than

a city. «

CHAP. XXXII.

The dictator addresses the People. Action with the

Confederates.

HILST the city was in this consternation, the dic­

tator seat about public criers through all the streets, to

Summon an assembly of the people, when he began with

reproaching them,.' For suffering themselves to be so

much alarmed, at the most trivial accidents. Thai an

inconsiderable los? , not occasioned by the enemy's va­

lour, nor the cowardice of the Roman army, but by a

disagreement among the commanders, should make

them afraid of the Vejentes, an enemy who had fled

before them, six several times: and of the Fidenates,

whose capital they had taken oltener, if possible, than

they had even laid siege to it. The Romans and the

enemy were the same sort of men they bad been for so,

many ages. With regard to courage, strength of body,

