27* TITUS LIVIUS' book III.

But Virginius had excited a greater tumult in the camp,

than he had left behind him in the city. For, besides

that, the troop of almost 400 citizens who accompanied

him from the city, in condolence for his misfortune,

made his arrival more •conspicuousi; the knife which he

carried in his hand, and the blood with which he was

covered, drew on him the eyes of the whole army.

The gowns which were observed in many different

parts of the camp, made the number of citizens appear

greater than it really was. Whilst every body asked him

what had happened, he continued silent for some time,

and answered only with tears. At length, recovering

himself a little from that confusion, which the sudden

concourse had occasioned, there was silence all over,

when he repeated every circumstance, in order, as it

happened. Then lifting up his hands to heaven, and

addressing himselfto his fellow-soldiers, beconjured them-,

•' not to ascribe to him a crime, the impuiation of which

"was due to Appius Claudius alone, nor to look upon

"him with abhorrence, 'as the murderer of his own

"child. The life of his daughter was dearer to him

"than his own; if, in preserving it, she could also have

"preserved her liberty and her honour; -but seeing her

"just about to be dragged away as a slave, to be made

"the victim of a decemvir's wild desires, he thought it

"more honourable to lose his child by death, than in-

"famy. It was pity and tenderness alone, that showed

"him in a savage point of view; nor would he have

"survived her, but for the hope of revenge in the as­

sistance of his fellow-soldiers: They have also daugh­

ters,—sisters,—wives. The lust of Appius had notex-

pired with his daughter; but the more it was suffered

with impunity, would be still the more outrageous.

They ought to take warning from another's misfor­

tune, and guard against the like injuries. For his own

share, he had lost his wife, and his daughter, as she

could" have preserved her virtue only by the loss of her

life, and had suffered an unhappy, but an honourable

"death : he had now nothing to fear from the b'rutality

'of Appius, in his own family; and from any injurious

* attempts against his person, he knew how to deliver  
"himself with the same spirit he had done his daughter.

