454 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK V.

of the Teem. Then the Boii (a), and Lingenes (6) cros­

sed the Pennine Alps, and having possessed themselves

of all the countries between the Alps and the Po, passed

that river in boats, and not only drove the Etrurians,

but even the Umbrians (c) out of the country. They

confined themselves, however, within the Appenines.

Then the Senones (d), the last of all the new comers,

possessed themselves of the countries lying between the.

rivers Montone and Fiumesmo.

This was the nation, I find, that came first to Clusium,

and thence to Rome; but I cannot say whether they

-Icame alone, or assisted by all the other Cisalpine emi­  
grants. The Clusiaas,. terrified at this new war, when

they saw the number aod extraordinary size of the ene­

my, and withal the kind of arms they used, at the same

time having often heard that the Etrurians had been

often defeated by them, both on this and the other side.

of the "o: atthough they had no alliance with Rome,

nor any claim to her friendship, if it were not, .that they

had not'appeared in defence of the Vejentes, their kins­

men, agiCinsK the Romans, sent ambassadors to Rome to

solicit assistance from the senate. In this, however, they

did not succeed; but the thret sons of Ambustius Fabius

were sent ambassadors to treat with the Gauls in name

of the senate and people of Rome, and to represent,

that they ought not to attack the friends and allies of

the people of Rome, who never had injured them, and

in whose defence, should it prove necessary, they would

be obliged to arm. But the most eligible alternative

was, if possible, to prevent it; and it would add more to

the character of the Gauls, whose settlement there had

been but of a short Standing, to make themselves known

by the arts of peace, than their prowess in war.

(«) "Who inhabited the Bourbotmois. (i) Who inhabited

1 angress. (c) Who possessed part of the dutchy" of Urbrn,

of the territory of Perugia, the county of Citta Castellana, and

most of the dutchy of Spoleto. (4) From Sens and Auxerre.

