436 TITUS LIVIUS" BOOK V.

s

•

CHAP. XXIII.

CuHilllits returns in triumph. The people disgutted.

\\ HEN news of the reduction of Veii reached Rome,

although the prodigies had been expiated, the responses

of the diviners, and of the Pythian oracle, a secret to

none; and to secure success by every device human

prudence could afford, they had chosen the greatest ge­

neral of his age, Marcus Furius; yet because the fortune

of war had shifted so often, and they had met with so

many defeats, the joy was incredible, as if the cause of

it had been beyond all expectation. Before the senate

couid pass any decree, the Roman ladies had filled all

the temples, returning thanks to the gods. Tbe senate

ordained solemn supplications for four days, a greater

number than had ever been appointed in any former

war. Never had any general such a retinue before, at

his arrival; for all ranks and conditions ran in crowds

to meet him; and the magnificence of that day's triumph,

far exceeded what was usual on such occasions. He

himself was more especially conspicuous, having made

his entry into the city in a chariot drawn by four white

horses; whence it was inferred, that he exalted himself

not only above the condition of a citizen, but even of

human nature. They considered it as an act of impiety

for the 'dictator to be drawn by the same number of

horses, and of the same colour too, with those of Jupiter

and the sun; and this circumstance alone, however much

it might heighten the splendour of bis triumph, rendered

it less agreeable to the spectators.

After this he drew the plan of the temple of <]ueen

JunO on the Aventine hill, and dedicated that of the

goddess Matuta. Wherefore having thus performed his

duty to the gods, and done such signal service to the

state, he abdicated the dictatorship.

The present to Apollo came then under public con­

sideration. When Camillas represented, that he had

vowed the tenth part of the spoils to the god, the priests

gave it as their opinion, that the people ought to per­

form the vow. But to prescribe a method to make the

neople bring in the spoils, so as to deduct from them

