CHAP. M. ROMAN HISTORY. 327

the sedition, and confiscated their estates for the benefit

of the public treasury. The Ardeates, by so important

a service, thought themselves sufficiently indemnified for

the unjust award of the Roman people. But the senti­

ments of.the senate were more generous, they thought

there still remained something more to be done to efface

the remembrance of the shameful avidity which had so

much dishonoured the Roman people, The consul en­

tered 'Rome in triumph; Chiilius, the general of the

Volsci, being led in chains before his chariot, together

with the spoils of the enemy, whom he had disarmed,

and obliged to pass under the yoke.

The consul Quinctius, equalled by the virtues of peace,

the glory his colleague had acquired in arms, which was

no easy matter. For, he applied himself in such a man­

ner to preserve the peace and union of the city, and act­

ed with such perfect impartiality between great and

small, that by a just mixture of severity and mildness,

his administration was thought by the senate rather

sti'ict, aftd by' the people sufficiently gentle. He kept

'the tribunes in awe, not by violent disputes, but by a

kind of ascendancy his known merit gave him over them.

In five consulships, through which he had passed with

the same character for probity, or rather the consular

dignity of his whole life, rendered his person more ve­

nerable, if possible, thaji the office he bore; for this rea­

son, not a syllable was hinted about military tribunes,

during the whole course of this consulship.

CHAP. XI.

Reparation made the Ardeates, for the selfish award of the

Roman People.

T,

HE consuls elected for the ensuing year, were M.

Fabius Vibulanus and Posthumus ./Ebutius Cornice/i.

These magistrates, when they reflected upon the glorious

administration of the preceding year, both at home and

abroad ; (for the Romans had shown such attention and

alertness in relieving the Ardeates, when their affairs

vverel in a most dangerous situation, that among their

neighbours, allies, and enemies, they were considered in

