404 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK V.

the soTdiers were not slaves, but freemen and fellow-

citizens, who ought at least, during the winter, to be

permitted to return to their houses and families, in or足

der that once in the year, they might see their fathers,

wives, and children, enjoy their liberty, and give their

voice in the election of magistrates.'

Whilst the tribunes were exclaiming in this manner,

they found an antagonist in Appius Claudius, who had

been left by his colleagues, for the purpose of opposing

the seditious attempts of the tribunes, being highly qua足

lified for the task: for from his youth he had beeo.

trained to contend with the Plebeians, and had advised,

some years before this, as we had occasion to observe, to

blunt the edge of tribunitian power, by opposing it to

itself,

CHAP. HI.

Appius enters the lists with the Tribunes.

.T\PPIUS, who was remarkable for quickness of con-

ception, which too was greatly improve^ by his prac-

tice, spoke to the following efi'ect: ' If ever, gentlemen,.

there was a doubt, whether it was to promote your

interest, or their own, that your tribunes are still on

the watch to raise seditions in the state, I am certain

this year must have cleared up every difficulty on that

score. And whilst I rejoice, that there is now an end

of the wild tedious goose-chase they have led you, I

congratulate you, and the republic on your account,

that your prosperity hath, in a very peculiar manner,

contributed to open your eyes. Is it not .evident to all

the world, that your tribunes were never so sensibly

touched with any injuries you ever received, if indeed

you ever received any, as with the generosity of the

senate to the people, in appointing them pay, whilst

employed in the service of the republic? What else,

do you imagine, could have alarmed them at that time,

orwhat is it they would wish to disturb now, but all

union between the two. orders of the state, as being

entirely repugnant to their seditious views? ftike ras足

cally quack doctor*, by Hercules, they hatch employ-

aent for themselves. "Their desire was to see some足

