216 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK 71I.

"like this would not only render the consular, but the

"tribnnitian power, odious and insupportable, which

"having only of late been made familiar, and recon-

"ciled to the minds of the patricians, would again be-

"come their abhorrence."

"I am not, (says he,) to insist, that you should give

"up your proposition;" and addressing himself to his

colleagues, " It is you whom we conjure, first of all to-

"consider, that the original design of the tribunitian

"power was for the protection of individuals, and not

"for the destruction of the whole community. You

"were made the tribunes of the people, not ihe perse-

"cutors of the senate. Should the majesty of the Re-

"public in the absence of its magistrates be violated, it

"would be painful to us ;—to you it would be an invi-

"dious affair. A tittle of your power you will not lose,

"but you will avoid much hatred. Use your interest

"with your colleague, to suffer the matter to rest as it

"is, till the return of the supreme magistrates. The •

"very JE<^a\ and Volsci had the humanity to desist from

"a cruel and destructive war against us last year, when

"the plague had deprived us of both our consuls." His

colleagues interposed, and Terentillus complied; and the

bill being in appearance put off', though in reality it was

withdrawn, the consuls were immediately recalled.

CHAP. X.

Lucretius it appointed a triumph. Prodigies.

Tribunitian contests,

.LUCRETIUS returned to Rome with prodigious booty,

but still greater glory. On his arrival, he exposed the

whole spoils in the Campus Martius, for three days toge­

ther, that individuals might know, and carry away their

own property, which considerably enhanced his repu­

tation. What nobody appeared to rlaim, was sold, A

triumph was unanimously decreed him, but it was sus­

pended; the tribune still insisting on his bill, which in

course came in before the decree relating to the consul.

For some days it was warmly debated in the senate', and

before the people; but the tribune at length yielded to

the consuls' authority, and withdrew his bill.

