CHAP. 44. ROMAN HISTORY. 265

place, they brought back his corpse, affirming, that Sic-

cius had not been killed by the ^enemy, but by his own

party. The indignation of the army was inconceivable.

They were determined to carry the body forthwith to

Rome, had not the decemvirs prevented them by hasten­

ing to bury him, at the public charge, with all the ho­

nours of war. The soldiers accompanied his funeral in

tears, and openly threw out the bitterest invectives

against the decemvirs.

- . . -. •"

CHAP. XL1V.

w I

The villainy of-Appius.

J. HE other act of villainy originated in a criminal pas­

sion, which was perpetrated in the city, as deplorable in the

event, as the rape and murder of Lucretia, which expel­

led the Tarquins, both from the city and kingdom; that

the last blow to the power of the decemvirs, might not

only be similar to that of the kings, but that their catas­

trophe might proceed from the same kind of cause.

Appius Claudius was struck with the charms of a ple­

beian beauty, and thought of nothing but the means of

gratifying-his criminal desires. Her father, L. Virginias,

held an honourable pos^ia the army at the Algidus, and

besides was much respected as a man of integrity and

courage. His wife's priaciples had been strictly virtuou?,

and his childrens education was completely so.

He had promised her in marriage to L. Icilius, who had

been a tribune, a man of spirit, and had given proofs of

his courage, in the cause of the commons.

Deeply impressed with the exquisite beauty, and the

blooming graces of youth, he discovered in this fair one,

Appiu? attempted to make his way, by means of presents

ami fair promises: But, fmding that her virtue was proof

against these arts, he resolved to have recourse to force,

however cruel and insolent it might appear. Thmking

he never could have a better opportunity to execute his

wicked purposes, than when her father was absent, he

ordered M. Claudius, a creature of his own, to claim her

as his slave; and by no means to leave her at liberty,

upon bail, till the cause should be determined.

