CHAP. 51. ROMAN HISTORY. 385

CHAP. LI.

The Trial of the mutinous Soldiers. Contests between the

, Orders.

Q- FABIUS VILULANUS, being declared inter-rex.

held the comitia; when A. Cornelius Cossus, and L. Fu-

rius Medullinus, were created consuls. In the beginning

of their administration, the senate enacted, that the tri­

bunes should, without loss of time, lay the affair of the

enquiry into the murder of Posthumius, before the as­

sembly of the people; and that it should be left to the

people to appoint whom thev pleased to preside in that

enquiry. The commons, .with the concurrence of the

whole body of the people, committed the charge of this

matter to the two consuls. They executed their com­

mission with great lenity and moderation; and the few

examples thai were made, are generally believed to have

prevented the execution of their sentence by a voluntary

death. Yet all these precautions did not stop the mouths

of the people, who complained bitterly, that the bills

which were brought in for their account, were suffered

to ly on the table neglected and protracted for so many

ytars, whilst one for shedding their blood, and bringing

them to punishment, was put in execution directly, and

with rigour. Now was the time, after the punishment of

the seditious soldiers, for soothing the minds of the peo­

ple, by a distribution of the lands of Vola;. The senators

in that case, would have diminished the ardour of the

people, in pushing the Agrarian law, which was calcu­

lated to dispossess the Patricians of the property of the

public they had unjustly usurped. The people, at that

time, were much exasperated with this provoking con­

sideration, that the nobility not only persisted' obstinate­

ly in retaining the public lands, of which they were vio­

lent possessors, but also prevented the distribution of

those lately taken from the enemy, .now vacant, -which

would also soon become the prey of a few Patricians, as

the rest had done before.

The same year, the consul Furius led the legions

against the Volsci, who were ravaging Ae territory of

