68 TITUS LIVIUS' . BOOK I.

CHAP. XXXV.

Lucumo succeeds Aucus.

XxNCUS reigned twenty-four years, inferior to none of

his predecessors, in the arts of peace or war. His sons

had now almost reached the age of fourteen, for which

reason, Tarquin pressed tu bring on the election of a new

king, with the utmost expedition. An assembly of the

people being called, he sent out the~princes on a hunting

match, at the time of their meeting. \ It is remained of

him, that he was the first, who openly solicited for the

crown, and had a public harangue, calculated to secure

his interest with the people; telling them, " That he.did

"not ask a thing unprecedented or uncommon, as he

"was not the first, but the third foreigner, who had as-

"pired to the sovereignty of Rome, so that none need

"wonder, or take offence at his presumption. That

"Tatius was both a foreigner, and an enemy, when he

"was made king; and Numa,l a stranger to the city,

"was called without soliciting it, to that high office.

"That he, the moment he could dispose of himself, had

"removed to Rome with his family and fortune, where

"be had spent a greater part of his life, than where he

drew his first breath, and a part too best calculated for

the discharge of civil offices. That he had studied the

Roman laws, both sacred and civil, in peace and iu

war, under king A'ncus himself, a master of whom he

had no reason to be ashamed. For loyalty and re-

•' spect to his sovereign, he was second to none; and for

'' generosity and beneficence to others, not even to the

*' king himself."—Whilst he was enumerating these cir*  
cumstances in his favour, which, by the bye, could not

be disputed, he was declared king by a great majority

of the people.

The same ambition which actuated Tarquin, a man

in other respects, of an unexceptionable character, in

canvassing for the crown, he also discovered after .he hajl

obtained it. For, being no less attentive to the esta­

blishing of bis own authority, than the aggrandizement

of the state, he created an hundred new senators, who

from that time, were distinguished by the title of Sena­

