22 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK I.

They were charged in particular, with making incur足

sions on, and ravaging Numitor's lands, assisted by a

band of young fellow scollected tor the purpose; in con足

sequence of which, Remus was delivered over to Numi-

tor to be punished. It is to be observed, that Faustulus

from the beginning had some notion that the children

he bad been bringing up were of the blood royal, for

he knew they had been exposed by the king's order, and

the time he had taken them up, corresponded exactly

with the date of the order: but he bad no intention of

discovering the secret unseasonably, before he found a

proper opportunity, or was.compelled by necessity. Ne足

cessity was his first motive: for, instigated by his concern

for the safety of his ward, he makes a full discovery to

Romulus. By chance too, when Nutnitor had Remus

in custody, he had heard that he had a twin-brother;

and by comparing their ages with their dispositions,

which he found the very reverse of servile, he was struck

with the idea of his grand-children; and upon farther

inquiry, was almost determined to acknowledge Remus.

Wherefore a plot is laid for the king on all sides.

Romulus, however, did not advance with his young^

adventurers in a body, as being, by open force, unequal

to the attempt; but having ordered the shepherds, by

different routs, to meet at the palace, at an hour con足

certed, he then forces his way to.the king, whilst from

Numitor's house, Remus advances with another party,

which he had convened for his brother's assistance.

CHAP. VI.

The city Rome built by Romulus.

j\UMITOR, at the beginning of the insurrection,

under pretence that an enemy had invaded the city,

and made their way good to the palace, called off the

Alban youth to garrison and defend the castle. But

when he saw his grand-sons advancing towards him, with

loud huzzas, having done their business, he immediately

called a council, laid open to them his brother's wicked

proceedings against himself, acquaints them with the

