CHAP. 21. ROMAN HISTORY. 135.

The dictator, attentive to every "thmg that could con­

ciltate the assistance of gods and men, is said to have

vowed a temple to Castor, and also to have promised

rewards to the tir>t and second man, vrfio shoutd enter

the enemy's camp: And such was the ardour of the Ro-

ntans, thntihey coi.t tiued the charge with unremitted

vigour, till they became masters of the enemy's camp.

Such was' the event of the battle of Regillus. "The dic­

tator and general of the horse, returned to the city in

triumph. . J

CHAP. XXI.

Mws of Tarquitfi death. A temple dedicated to Mercury.

the three succeeding years, there was neither

open war, nor settled peace. Q. Clseiius and Titus

Lartius, and then A. Sempronins and M. Muratius were

consuls. Durmg their presidency, a temple was dedi­

cated to Saturn, and the Saturnalia* appointed to be

kept as a festival.

I find in Some authors that ihe battle of Regillus hap­

pened (his year; and that A. Posihumius having resign.

ed his office of consul, because his colleague's1 fidefity

was suspected, was afierwards made dictator. Such

gross errors in chronology are blended with the history

of these times, some ranking the magistrates in one or­

der, and some in anoiher, that according to some writers,

it is impossible to say with any degree of precision, who

were consuls, or what year was distinguished by any re­

markable event, by reason of the antiquity of the tacts

and the historians who relate them.

This year was remarkable at Rome, for the news they

received of the death of Tarquin. The intelligence

raised the spirits of the senate and people to a very hi<*h

pitch. The joy of the faihers was rather extravagant -

for, from that moment, they began to behave very in­

solently to the commons, whom to that day, in every

* Durine the celebration of this festival in honour of Saturn  
which tasied three, five, seven, and sometimes nine days, friend­

ship was cultivated to a high degree, aud there was a total rac*.

tion from all butinws.

