4++ TITUS LIVIUS' Book V.

to Apollo. The long galiey, in which these deputies

embarked, was intercepted by some pirates from the isle

iil' Liparre, not fa# from the streights ot' Messina, and by

them carried into Liparae It was their custom to divide

all their captures among the citizens.

Their principal magistrate this year was one Timasi-

theus, a man, who resembled the Romans more in his

manners, than he did his countrymen. This magistrate,

full of veneration for the god, and the present sent him,

and out of respect to the character of the ambassadors,

and the embassy on which they were sent, inspired the

multitude, who generally follow the sentiments of their

leaders, with the same regard tor justice and religion.

And having not only entertained them with great hos足

pitality, but in person, with a squadron of ships, con足

voyed them to Delphi, and from thence safe back to

Rome, the right of hospitality was conferred on him by

a decree of the senate, and great presents were made

him at the public expence.

Throughout this year, the war with the i^qui took

such various turns, that it remained a question both at

Rome and in the camp, which side had the better. The

generals in the war, were C. iEmilius, and Sp. Posthu-

mius. At first they acted in conjunction, and when they

had defeated the enemy in a pitched battle, iEmwius

thought proper to go to garrison Vetrugo, and Posthu-

mius to lay waste the enemy's borders. The latter

marching with his troops with too little precaution, after

bis late success, was surprised and driven to the adja足

cent hills in great consternation by the JEqui. Their

fright commumcated itself to the other garrison at Ver-

rugo.

Posthumius having rallied his men,' and got them into

a place of safety, reproached them severely with their

panic and flight, telling them that they had suffered

themselves to be beat by a most cowardly enemy, who

always shewed their backs. The whole army acknow足

ledged that there was too much truth in what they had

heard, and confessed the frfult of which they had been

guilty, bqt promised that they woultl make amends, and

give the enemy but short time to rejoice over them.

They begged with earnestness to be instantly led to the

attack of the enemy's camp, which Vas within sight, in

