TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK IV.

CHAP. XXXIV.

Fidenee taken and plundered, The Dictator returns in

, triumph.

J. HESE having entered the gates of the city, pell mell

with the enemy, immediately got upon the top of the

wall, and from thence made a signal to the rest of the

army, that they were in possession of the town; which

was no sooner observed by the dictator, who, by this

time, had taken possession of the enemy'* camp, by them

just abandoned, than he led his troops to the gate, impa­

tient as they were to leave their ranks and rifle the camp,

but now encouraged to hope for greater plunder in the

city; and being admitted within the walls, he marched

straight t,o the citadel, whither he saw the enemy flying

in crowds.. The slaughter in the city was noihing short

of what it had been in the field, till the Fidenates laid

down their arms, and begijmg only for their lives, sur­

rendered at discretion. The city and the camp were

both plundered by tlie troops.

Next day, the prisoners were disposed of by lot, one

being assigned to each of the knights and centurions,

and to such as had distinguished themselves more parti­

cularly, two a-piece. The rest were sold to the highest

bidder: and then the dictator led back his artny, crown­

ed with laurels, and enriched with plunder, and entered

the city in triumph.

He then ordered the general of the horse to resign his

office, and abdicated his own the sixteenth day after he

had received it; leaving the city in the most profound

peace and tranquillity, which he had found involved in

war, and in extreme consternation.

Some annals make mention of a naval engagement,

which the Romans had with the Vejentes at Fidervee-; a

circumstance as impossible, as it appears incredible; for,

even at this day, the river is not broad enough for that

purpose ; and if we may believe an<ient authors, it was

then not so broad as at present. Perhaps the Romans

may have driven off'some boats which came to assist the

• Vejantes in crossing the river, and that circumstance has

