CHAP. 52. ROMAN HISTORY. 183

the Romans could boast of no great advantage, yet that

engagement gave them new spirit, and encouraged them

to behave better in every future action.

A. Virginius and Sp. Servilius, succeeded as consuls;

after the check the Vejentes received in the last engage­

ment, they declined coming to another: But they plunder­

ed the country; and from the fort Janiculum, they made

incursions upon the Roman lands all around. Neither

the farmers, nor their cattle, were any where safe. But

they were at last taken in the same trap they had laid

for the Fabii: For, pursuing some cattle, which had been

sent out on purpose to decoy them, they fell headlong

into the ambuscade; their numbers only served to in­

crease the slaughter. Their extravagant resentment for.

this loss, laid the foundation of a much greater: For,

passing the Tiber in the night, they attempted to storm

the camp of Servilius the consul. But there they met

with so warm a reception, that after a prodigious slaugh­

ter, with great difficulty they got back to the Janiculum.

The consul immediately crossed the river, and fortified

his camp at the foot of the hill. F^rly next morning, a

kittle flushed with success the day before, or rather

impelled by the want of provisions, to take the shortest

course, however dangerous, to procure them, he incon­

siderately led his army up the hill to the enemy's camp,

where he received a more shameful repulse, than he had

given the day before: But his colleague came up and

saved both him and his army. Between the two armies,

a dreadful havock was made among the Etrurians, as

they were endeavouring to escape, first from the one,

and then from the other. Thus by a fortunate impru­

dent step, the war with the Vejentes got a finishing

stroke.

U.

CHAP. Lll.

Trial of Menqnius and Servilius.

'PON the return oF peace, provisions became cheaper

in the city; for they had corn from Campania: and

there being now no apprehensions of future scarcity,

the citizens brought out what they had concealed and

