x THE TRANSLATOR

trating into the motives of every action, and cause of

every event? Can there be a greater incitement to virtue,

than from the example exhibited to us in the history of

the antient Romans, for modesty, frugality, generosity,

disinterestedness, patriotism, and all those shining vir­

tues, which have rendered them the admiration of suc­

ceeding ages? It was in this view that Livy considered

his subject, in which he saw so many opportunities of

displaying his genius, and which he knew so well how

to improve.*

In short, in the manner he has handled his subject,

nothing seems to be above his merit. The beauty and

elevation of his style, is equal to the glory and greatness

of the people whose history he writes. He is everywhere

luminous, intelligible, and agreeable: but when he en­

ters into important affairs, he rises even above himself,

to treat them with peculiar attention, and a kind of self-

delight and complacency. The actions he describes, he

renders present; he sets them before the eyes; he does

not relate them, he shows them. He paints the genius

and character of his dramatis persona, from nature; and

puts words iuto their mouths, which are always conform­

able to their sentiments and situations. In one word, he

has the wonderful art of keeping his readers in so pleas­

ing a suspense, by the variety of his events, and of en­

gaging their curiosity so strongly, that it is impossible to

quit his relation of any incident/ till it is entirely at an

end.f

It is reported of the celebrated Scotch historian, George

Buchanan, that he read Titus Livius's history ten times

over, to fix in his mind the stile and manner of that great

author, before he attempted the work, which has justly

placed him at the head of all the writers who have

transmitted their sentiments to posterity in the Latin

language, since the Augustan age. Nay, some have

not scrupled to affirm, in drawing a comparison between

Livy, and the celebrated Roman orator, Cicero; that if

the latter had turned his whole attention from the bar, to

* Les Oenvres du P. Rapin.  
f Rolling Roman history.

