212 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK III.

'CHAP. VII.

t .

Ill success of the Hernici. Tlie plague rages. Recourse to

• deration.

Wi

HILE thus abandoned, without a head to conduct

or strength to execute, the tutelar gods and fortune of the

city preserved it, and converted the hostile intention of

the JEqui and Volsci'into a plundering scheme., Fop

they were so far from entertaining hopes of carrying the

city, that they never once thought of marching up to it&

walls. The sight of the houses at a distance, and the

threatening tombs, had such an effect on their feelings,

that they began to murmur throughout the whole camp,

That they were wasting their time without plunder, in.

a wild and depopulated country, where they could

meet with nothing but rotten carcases of men and

beasts, while they might have gone to healthy places,

to the rich plains of Tusculum. That they ought im-

"mediately to pull up their standards, and, by march-

"ing thro.ugh the Lavican territories, proceed to the

"hills of Tusculum." Thither therefore did they carry

all the force and fury of the war.

In the mean time, the Hernia and Latins, not only

•from a principle of humanity, but of shame, that they

had suffered their common enemy to march to Rome

without the least interruption, and had brought no assis­

tance to their allies when besieged, marched with their

confederate army to Rome. When they found the ene­

my had disappeared, they got intelligence of their mo­

tions, and pursued their track, till they met them com­

ing down from the Tusculan hills into the valley of Alba.

There they fought with great disadvantage, and for the

present, their success was not equal to their fidelity to

their allies.

The havorlf was no less at Rome by means of the

plague, than of the allies by the svyord. The only con­

sul that had hitherto survived, and with him other men

of distinction, as M. Valerius, T. Virginus Rutilus, the

augurs; Ser. Sulpitius, the arch Curio, were all swept

away. Great numbers of the lower people were also de,'

