102 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK I.

"honour, and plead Lucretia for a precedent."—Upon

.this she drew a knife which she had concealed below her

gown, and plunged it into her breast. The husband and

father crying out, as she dropt expiring at their feet.

CHAP. LIX.

The Tarquins banished.

JjRUTUS, whilst the rest were absorbed in grief, draws

the knife out of Lucretia's wound, and holding it out all

bloody before him; "Yes," said he, " I swear by this

blood, once so pure, that nothing but royal villainy

could have polluted; and. I call the gods" to witness

this my oath, that I will pursue Lucius Tarquin, the

proud, his wicked wife, and all their race, with fire

and sword, and every other act of violence in my

power; nor will I ever suffer any of that, or any other

family whatsoever, to be king in Rome." This said,

he presented the knife to Collaiinus, then td Lucretius

and Valerius, who were not a little astonished at the sur­

prising revolution in the intellects of Brutus. However,

at his desire, they all took the oath, and their grief be­

ing now converted into rage, they all followed Brutus as

their leader, from that moment, incessantly employing

his interest to overturn the regal power.

The body of Lucretia was brought from Collatia and

laid in the Forum. As it is usual, in such cases, great

multitudes assembled, drawn together by their wonder at

so extraordinary a spectacle, or their indignation at the

author. Every one, from his own experience, had some

crime or act of violence, to lay to the charge of the Tar-

quins. They were moved by the father's tears; but

Brutus insisted that they should dry up their tears, and

drop their unavailing complaints, and show themselves

men and Romans, in taking up arms against those who

oared to act a villainous part against them.

The most resolute of the youth appear in arms, volun­

teers in the service, and the rest soon follow their exam­

ple. Then having left a sufficient guard at the gates of

Collatia, and placing sentries, that the Tarquins might

get no notice of this insurrection, the rest, headed by

