TO THE PUBLIC. ii

the writing of history, his appearance, as a historian,

would rather have eome short of Livy's.

Our author's Roman history originally consisted of

142 Books, extending from the foundation of Rome to

the death of Dausus, A. U. C. 744; but the lamentable

depredations which have been committed on the literary

treasures of antiquity, by Goths and Vandals, Monks,

worms, and that notorious belluo librorum, time, have

deprived us of above 170 Books, the value of which may

be estimated from the expectations which have been

formed, the searches that have been made, and the re­

wards that have been proposed for recovering all the

Books of this inimitable historian, which are wanted in

our printed copies. Once indeed it was fully expected,

that all the works of Livy would have been restored en­

tire to the world. One Justinian!, a Greek merchant of

the island of Chios, happening to be m France, in the

year 1685, offered the French king all the works ofLivy.

He pretended, that at the great fire, which happened at

Constantinople in the 1665, this valuable work was, a-

mong other books, thrown out a window, and picked

up bv a Turk, who sold it privately to a merchant, by

whom he was commissioned to sell it. The bargain was

struck ; by which Justiniani was entitled to receive at

the rate of 10,000 crowns instantly paid him, for every

two Decades he could produce. But he never returned

with the copy, which was an universal disappoint­

ment*.

Thus in all ages, since the works of Kvy made their

first appearance in the world, have they been universal­

ly admired, and sought after with the greatest avidity;

and such was the veneration paid to their illustrious au­

thor, by Alphonso king of Naples, that he sent, in the

year '452, Panormita as his ambassador to the Veneti­

ans, in whose dominions the bones of Livy had been

lately discovered, to beg a relic of this celebrated-histo­

rian. They presented him with an arm bone; and the

present is recorded in an inscription preserved at Padua,

to this day f.

* Marhoff de Patavin. LIT.  
f Vosiiu* de biitoricis Latinis.

