388 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK IV.

public, would give up what they held by so unjust a te­

nure, he would obstruct the levies no longer. The other

nine tribunes put an end to the dispute, and declared it

was the opinion of their college, ' That in opposition to

'their colleague, Micnius, they should support the con-

• sul Valerius, in imposing fines, or inflicting other pu-

'nishments on those who refused to enlist for the war.'

The consul now armed with this decree, having seized

and imprisoned some of them who had appealed to the

tribunes for assistance, the rest were afraid, and took the

military oath.

However much the consul hated the army, and the

army him, the moment they appeared before the fortress

of Carventitm, they discovered the greatest ardour in dis­

lodging the garrison, and recovering the fort. The ne­

gligence of such of the garrison as had gone to plunder in

the neighbourhood, gave them a favourable opportunity

for the assault. The booty was considerable, as it con­

tained the magazine of all their praedatory acquisitions

round the country. The consul ordered the quaestors to

sell the whole at vendue, and put the price in the pablic

treasur)-, telling the soldiers they should share in the spoil,

when they showed less reluctance to the war. This in-

.creased the resentment of the people, as well as of the

soldiers, against the consul; insomuch,.that when, by.

order of the senate, he entered the city with an ovation,

the soldiers, in their licentious manner, repeated alter­

nately a. rough kind of verses, expressive of reproaches

to the consul, and high encomiums on the name of

Maenius. The people who lined the way to see the pro­

cession, rivalled the soldiers, in expressing their regard

to Maenius, by loud acclamations and applauses, as oft as

they heard his name. The senators were,more uneasy on

this account, than at the freedom the soldiers, were tak­

ing with the consul, as it was no uncommon thing, on

such occasions; and concluding from this, that Maenius

would certainly be advanced to the military tribuneshijj,

should he appear as a candidate, they took care to ex­

clude him, by appointing thu comitia to be hehj for ,

electing consuls.

