52 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK I.

Thus, though he was no match for them altogether,

he was more than a match tor any-one of them singly.

Therefore, to separate his opponents, he takes to flight,

being persuaded they would follow him, with more or

less expedition, as their strength, after so much loss of

blood, would permit them: Having now got a little wav

from the seat of action, he turned and saw the Curiatii

pursuing him at considerable distances from each other,

and one of them not far behind him. Upon him he

turns with all his force, and while the Alban army were

crying out to his brothers to assist him, Horatius having

already dispatched his man, runs to a second engage^-

raent. It was then the Rdmans animated their cham­

pion with great shouts, such as generally proceed from

unexpected joy, whilst he, on the other hand, made

haste to finish his business; and before the other, who

was at no great distance, could come up to assist his

brother, he laid him breathless at his feet%

The number on each side was now equal, but their

strength and hopes very different. The Roman, yet

without a wound, and flushed with his double victory,

advanced with great spirit to the third combat. His an­

tagonist, on the other hand, weakened with the loss of

blood, and spent with miming, could scarce stand upon

his legs; and being already vanquished in the fall of his

brothers, encounters the victor. But this could not be

called a combat. The Roman then cried out with an air

of triumph, " The two first I have sacrificed to the manes

"of my brothers, the third I am now to sacrifice to the

"honour of my country, that Rome • may give laws

"to Alba." Curiatius could scarce stand up "under his

arms, so the other plunged hjs sword in his bosom, and

stripped him as he lay dead, j . - •**

The Homans receive Horatius into their camp with

expressions of joy and acknowledgments, proportioned

to the risk they had run. After this, both parties applv

themselves to bury their dead; but with minds widely

different; the Romans having acquired a considerable

accession of power, whilst the Albans were become theh-

subjects. Their tombs are still to be seen on the very

spot where each of them fell: These of the two Horatii

