200 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK II.

CHAP. LXV.

The Volsci defeated, and their camp taken.

W HEN the light appeared, the Roman army, quite

vigorous and refreshed with sleep, marched out 10 bat­

tle; and at the first charge obliged the Volsci to give

way, being already exhausted with standing under their

arms, and watching all night. They were not, how­

ever, entirely routed, they only fell back to some steep

places behind the centre, whither, without breaking their

ranks, they retreated in safety. ,

The consul, when the army had advanced fo the rising

ground, gave orders to halt. These orders were obeyed

with the greatest relucmncy, the soldiers crying out,

and urgently requesting, to be permitted to pursue the

enemy already giving ground. The cavalry were par­

ticularly urgent, crowding round the general, expressed

the greatest ardour, declaring loudly, that they would

go before the ensigns to the charge. While the consul

was balancing between the ardour of his troops, and

the disadvantage of the ground, they all, by a general.

shout, expressed their resolution of going on, and im­

mediately began to march. To help them over the

steep places, they fixed their javelins in the ground, and

these surmounted, run towards the top of the hill.

Whilst they were advancing, the enemy having spent

all their darts atthe first attack, tumbled down the stones.

upon them, which lay scattered among their feet, of

which they discharged such numbers, that their ranks

were broke, and they forced to fall back from the emi­

nence they had gained. The left wing of the Romans

was so overpowered, that it was on the point of giving

way, when the consul reproaching them with their rash­

ness, and want of resolution, made shatne get the bet­

ter of their (ear. Upon this, then, they renewed their

exertions with the most determined ardour; and as they

could gain a little ground, still continued to advance,

and setting up the other shout, encouraged the whole

army, by repeating their efforts, they got over the diffi­

culty of the place. They were now within a little of

