CHAP. 20. ROMAN HISTORY. , 133

Regillus, in the territory of Tusculum, came up with

the enemy, and getting intelligence that the Tarquins

were among the Latins, could no longer suppress their

fury, but charged them immediately. For this reason,

the battle was more bloody and desperate than usual;

the generals not only giving orders, and seeing them.

properly executed, but exposing their persons in the

hottest of the action; so that scarce an officer on either

side, excepting the Roman dictator, escaped without a

wound. .'•'

Whilst Posthumius was drawing up and haranguing his

men, Tarquin the proud, although weak and unwieldy

bv years, rode up with great fury to attack him; but

receiving a blow on the side, he was carried off safe by

a party of his own people. In the other wing, ^Ebutius

general of the horse, had singled out Octavius Mamilius,

who on his part, observing his motions, did by no means

avoid him, but put spurs to his horse to meet him.

With lance in hand, they pushed against each other so

impetuously, that .ffibutius was run through the arm,

and Mamilius wounded in the breast. ^Sbutius, inca­

pable of holding his lance fcny longer, by means of the

wound in his arm, .left the field; whilst the Latin gene­

ral was received into the second line, and returned soon

after to the charge, without regard to his wound. Ob­

serving his troops in disorder, he made the cohort of the

Roman exiles advance, commanded by Titus. Stima-

lated by revenge against enemies who had deprived them'

of their fortunes and country, they fought desperately;

and, by that means, in some measure, restored die battle.

CHAP. XX.

Battle of Regillus. A. R. '258.

W HEN the Romans began to give ground on that

side, Valerius, brother to Publicola, perceiving young

Tarquio, who shewed/himself at the head of these exiles

with haughtiness and deftance, eager to acquire his fa­

mily the honour of putting to death, as it had already of

expelling the Tarquins, he spurred his horse full speed

against him, in order to pierce him through with h's

G

