264 tit(JS LiVitrS' BOOK III.

ing their hatred to the decemvirs, passed a vote, that

guards should patrole the city, and that all who were

capable of bearing arms, should be posted to guard the

walls and the gales. They likewise decreed, that the

troops at Tuscuium should be reinforced, and a supply

of arms sent them; besides, they ordered the decemvirs

to leave the citadel, and encamp the troops in the 'open

plain, whilst the army at Fidenae should march iuto the

Sabine territories, that by carrying the war into the ene­

my's country, they might be'diverted from all thoughts

of attacking Rome.

Bi

CHAP. XLIII.

Base treatment of Siccius.

lESIDES these calamities inflicted by the enemy,

there were two very enormous actions committed by the

decemvirs, the one in-thecamp, and the other in the city.

In the army sent against the Sabine*, L. Siccius, instigat­

ed by his aversioirto the decemvirs, had, in private con­

ferences with the soldiers, mentioned the expediency of

creating triburres, and making a secesssion, for which rea­

son, he was sent before the army by the generals, to look

out for a place proper for their camp. The soldiers who

attended him in this expedition, had secret ovdt-rs, when­

ever they had got to a convenient place, to fall upon Sic­

cius and dispatch him.

He sold his life dear. For, being strong and vigor­

ous, he made a noble resistance; and though surrounded

by the assassins, he defended himself with a courage equal

to l)is strength, so that some of the ruffians lay dead

around him. The survivors returned to the camp, where

they reported, that Siccius had inconsiderately fallen in­

to an ambuscade, and that he had lost his life, fighting

valiantly, as did also some of his party. This account of

the matter was ut first believed; but afterwards, when,

by permission of the decemvirs, a cohort was detached

to bury thttdead; and finding, on their arrival none of

the bodies stripi, Siccius lying in the middle in his ar­

mour, all the dead with their faces towards him, not an

enemy among them, nor any vestige of their leaving th*'

