156 TITUS LIVIUS* BOOK II.

instance, they had treated with all imaginable com­

plaisance. , ,

This same year also, the colony which Tarquin had

sent to Signia was recruited by a new supply of planters.

The tribes at Rome were increased to twenty-one, and

the temple of Mercury was dedicated on the 15th of May.

CHAP. XXII.

Honourable behaviour of the Latins.

PURING the contest with the Latins, the Volsci

could not be properly said to have kept the peace, or to

have been at war with Rome. For they had mustered

a force, with which they intended to have supported

the Latjns, but the alertness of the Roman dictator pre­

vented them; for he had made forced marches that he

might not be obliged to make head against both at the

same time. Full of resentment for ihis conduct, the

consuls led the Roman legions against the country of the

Volsci, who suspecting BO evil consequences from their

intention, were the more alarmed at the unexpected mo­

tion. Wherefore, without any thought of arms, they

deliver the children of the first nobility of Cora and. Po-

metia to the number of 300, to remain as hostages for

their good behaviour i upon which the legions were

withdrawn without striking a stroke.

Not long after, when the Volsci had recovered of their

fright, their natural disposition began to shew itself.—

Once more having entered into an alliance with the Her-

nici, they made secret preparations for war. They like­

wise had embassies all ovier the country, soliciting the

Latins to join in the confederacy. But the late over­

throw at the lake Regillus stuck so deep in their sto­

machs, that they could listen to no overtures relating to

w,ar without indignation and.abhorrence at those who

made them, insomuch, that they did not even spare the

ambassadors themselves, but seized and sent them to

Rome There they were delivered up to the consuls,

to whom also were the. warlike preparations of the Her-

nici and Volsci communicated.

The matter being laid before the senate, the fathers

