206 TITUS LIVIUS' Book III.

greater. Luckily, indeed, the consul Quinctius had just

returned from the Algidus, which served to allay their

fears. Having brought them to reason, he rebuked

them for being afraid of conquered enemies, and posted

guards at the gates. Then having convened the senate,

and proclaimed a general vacation in the courts of justice,

by the authority of the fathers, he consigued the govern­

ment of the city to Q. Serviiius, and marched out to

protect the country, but then no enemy was to be found.

The other consul had been very alert Having got

intelligence of the enemy's rout, he fill upon them load­

ed with booty, and by that means, encumbered in their

march, so that this plundering match cost them very

dear: tew of the enemy escaped the trap he had laid for

them, and all the booty was recovered. Upon Quinctius's

return to the city, the courts of justice which had been

shut for lour days, were opened again. Then a census

was held, and when Quinctius had finished the lustrums,

the number of citizens enrolled is said to have amount­

ed to one hundred and twenty-four thousand two hun­

dred and fifteen, besides orphans of both sexes. After

this, the iEqui made no great figure. They kept them­

selves within their walls, whilst their effects were burnt

or plundered with impunity. The consul Fabius, when

he had repeatedly spread desolation in the enemy's

country, with fire and sword, returned to Rome, full of

glory, and loaded with spoils.

Ai

CHAP. IV.

Fabius over-reached by the JEqui.

L.FTER this, A. Posthumius Albus and Sp. Furius

Fusus, were elected consuls. The Furii, are by some

authors, called Fusii. I mention this, that none may be

led into a mistake, as to the persons, by this change of

, names. It was fully expected, that one of the consuls

would prosecute the war against the .Squi; for which

reason, the iEqui solicited aid from the Volsci, who ,o-

habited Ecetra. Their request was cheerfully granted,

so inveterate wa- the hatred of these states against the

Romans; wherefore, they made the most vigorous pre­

parations for war.

