CHAP. 37. ROMAN HISTORY. 15§

Now he felt the impression more forcibly. But still

hesitating and putting it oil', he was struck with a palsy,

all over his body. It was then that the wrath of the

gods roused him from his lethargy; for, afflicted by his

former calamities, and oppressed with the weight of his

present trouble, he called a meetmg of his nearest friends,'

and telling them all he had heard and seen, how Jupiter

had often appeared to him in a dream; how he had

been threatened, and the calamities in consequence,

which the gods had inflicted oh him; by the unanimous

advice of all present, he was conveyed to the consuls in

a litter, into the forum. By their order he was trans­

ported from thence into the senate-house; and when he

had made the same relation there, another extraordinary

circumstance happened, to the surprise of every body;

the man who was carried thither, without the use of a

single member, returned, as the story goes, upon his

own legs.

CHAP. XXXVfl.

Tullui's plan for spiriting up -the Vdsci against Rome.

1 HE senate decreed, that the games should be cele­

brated with all possible magnificence. At the desire of

Attius Tullus, vast numbers of the Volscian youth re­

paired to Rome to see them. Before the exhibition,

Tullus waited on the consuls as had been concerted at

home with Martins, and tells them Ire had something of

importance to communicate that concerned the state.

Having retired where they could not be overheard, he

told them, " h is with the utmost reluctancy that I am to

"mention any circumstance that may seem to reflect

"the teast dishonour on my countrymen: but I come

"not to accuse them of any thing they have alreadyl

•' done, but to put you on your guard, with respect to

"what they may do. The disposition Of my country-

"men is by far more fluctuating and restless than I

"could wish. This we have felt to our cost, since we

"owe our existence as a nation, at present, more to

"your good nature, than our own good behaviour.

"There are in the city at this moment, vast numbers of

"the Volsct. The scene of exhibition will soon open.

