304 TITUS LIVIUS' • BOOK III.

• suls, by betraying the dignity of their order, had

'made their court to the peopte, or had made them

• still more obdurate and untractable, by supporting the

'rights of the senate, with too much haughtiness and

'austerity. But that Titus Quinctius had adapted his

'discourse to the times, and without losing sight of the

"* 'dignity of the senate, had constantly kept iu view, the

'union and reconciliation of parties. They unani-

'mously requested him and his colleague to provide

• for the safety of the state; at the same time recom-

* mending to the tribunes, to act in concert with the

* consuls, for driving the enemy from the gates and  
'walls of the city, and to engage the people to act with

• cheerfulness and submission in -every thing ordered

'by the senate, in so dangerous a conjuncture. That

'it was the genius of Rome, that upon this extraordi-

* nary occasion, implored the aid of the tribunes, wben

* their lands were laid waste, and the city in danger of  
'being taken.'

The levies were decreed, without a dissenting voice,

and made without opposition. Then the consuls addres­

sed themselves to the multitude in substance as follows:

At present their time was too sacred for examining

the excuses of those who had not given in their names.

The youth must all be ready by day-break to-morrow,

in the Campus Martins. At the conclusion of the

war, they would then enquire into these matters, and

treat all as deserters, whose excuse should be found un­

tenable.'

Next day, the youth assembled accordingly, when

each cohort chose its own centurions, and hail two se­

nators placed at the h'e&d of it. All this we find done

with such expedition, that the ensigns were readv, and

brought from the arsenal by the ijusestors, and the troops

fairly oa their march by the fourth hour of ihc day.

This new army, joined with a few veteran cohorts, who

followed air volunteers, halted after a march often miles

from Rome. The next day they came iu view of <lie

enemy, and encamped hard by tliem at Corhio. On

.the third day, both sides were eager to come to an en-

jgagement; the Romans prompted by resentment, and

the enemy, liy a conviction that they could expect no

•

