CHAP. 44. ROMAN HISTORY. 375

strate at its head. At present there was no army, "nor

general to raise one. Will a civil war at homer be

any defence against the incursions of a foreign enemy?

On the contrary, should we be attacked by both these

calamities at once, the power of all tlie gods would be

barely sufficient to save us from destruction. Ought

not then the contending parties to abate something of

their high pretensions, and meet each other halfway,

to restore harmony to the state? Let the senate per­

mit military tribunes to be elected instead of consuls,

and the tribunes lay the people under no restraint in

the choice of four quaestors, out of either order, as they

shall think proper.'

CHAP. XLIV.

Trial of Sempronius and a Vestal.

HE Comitia for the eleciion of tribunes met first,

When L. Quincttus Cincinnaius, for the third time, L.

Furius Medullinus, for the second, M. Manlius, and A.

Sempronius Atratinus, all Patricians, were chosen. Sem­

pronius presided in the election of Quxstors, when,

among some other Plebeians, Antistius and Sextus Pom-

pilius, both tribunes, recommended, the first his son, and

the last his brother, as candidates for the quasstorship;

but they had neither interest, nor a sufficient number of

votes to prevent the people from preferring those, on ac«

count of their high-birth, whose fathers and grand-fa­

thers they had seen vested with the consulate.

The tribunes, upon this repulse, and particularly An­

tistius and Pompilius, enraged almost to madness, cried

out, ' That they could not conceive how the people could

be so insensible to the services they had done them,

the ill treatment they had received from the senators,

and the pleasure of putting in practice a new right

they had not before, as not to honour one of their own

number, if not with the dignity of a military tribune,

at least with that of a quaestor' What! two tribunes

of the commons, vested with that sacred power, insti­

tuted for the support of liberty, the one recommend­

ing and soliciting for his son, and the other for his

R

