CHAP. 8. . ROMAN HISTORY. f\S

voured by the plague. The senate, destitute of all hu­

man aid, recommended to the people to look up to the

god,s, and have recourse to prayer, ordering them to go

with their wives and children in procession, and suppli­

cate the divine mercy. Called upon thus, by public au­

thority, to act a part, which every one's distress, as an

individual, made his bounden duty, all the temples were

crowded, where the matrons prostrating themselves on

the floors, which they brushed with their hair, deprecat­

ed the divine wrath, and implored the gods to put an

end to the plagae. ti -

CHAP. VIII.

The plague abates. Great slaughter of the Vokei.

X* ROM this time, the sickness gradually abated; whc-

• ther it was the effect of their prayers, or that the sickly

season was past, all signs of disease began to disappear,

and give place to health and vigour. Now they direct­

ed all their attention to public affairs; and after several

interregnums, P. Valerius Publicola, the third day, after

he had been chosen inter-rex, nominated L. Lucretius-

Tricipitinus, and T. Veturius Geminus,consuls. In some

historians, the last is called Vetusius. They entered

upon their oflicc on the ninth ef August; at which time,

the citizens were so much recovered, that they were in

ft condition not only to act upon the defensive, but to

carry the war into, the heart of the enemy's country.

In consequence of advices from the Hernici, that their

country was invaded, the Romans readily promised them -

assistance. Two consular armies were levied. Veturius

was sent to attack the Volsci in thoir own country, and

Tricipitinus havkig posted himself so as to prevent the

country of the allies from- being plundered, went no far­

ther than the territories of the Hernici. In the very first

action, Veturius obtained a complete victory over the

Volsci. The pillagers escaped the vigilance of Lucre­

tius, as he lay encamped in the country of the Hernici;.

and marching along the tops of the hills of Praneste,

rnade a descent upon the plains. There they'Tavaged

the lands of Prseneste and Gabii; and from Gabii

marched round the hills of Tusculum.

