CHAP. 9. ROMAN HISTORY. 2<>

city. The whole nation of the Sabines* came, with

their wives and children. Being treated with great'

hospitality in the different houses, when they had taken

a view or the city, its situation, fortifications, and the

prodigious number of houses it contained, they could not

conceal their wonder at the rapidity of Its progress in so

short a time.

When the exhibition came on, their eyes and minds

being equally fixed on that object, a tumuit was set on

foot, as had been concerted, and the signal being given,

the Roman youth ran different ways to carry oil' the

young women by force. A great part of them were borne

away promiscuously, by those into whose hands chance

had put them. Some of superior beauty, destined for

the principal senators, were, by persons employed for the

purpose, carried- to their houses. A young lady, in her

person and looks, far surpassing all the rest, it is said,

had been seized by a party commissioned by one Talas-

sius, who, to save her from rudeness, when the question

was put, for whom was she intended? they repeatedly

cried out, for Talassius; a word, which afterwards was

adopted in the marriage ceremonies.

The consternation occasioned by this proceeding hav­

ing interrupted the games, the parents of the young wo­

men in sorrow fled from the city, exclaiming bitterly

against the Romans, for violating the laws of hospitality,

and invoking the vengeance of that god, to countenance

whose games they had come to Rome, betrayed under

the specious pretence of religion and public faith. Nor

were the hopes of the young women more sanguine, nor

their resentment less poignant.

But Romulus, in person, went about and informed

them, "That whatever had happened, was entirely ow­

ing to the pride of their fathers, who had refused to

give them in marriage to their neighbours: but, that

nevertheless, they should be joined by indissoluble ties

to their fortunes and freedom, as well as to their per­

sons. And, moreover, what would still be a more

endearing connexion, they would be united with their

husbands in the tender affection of parents of the same

• From Sabus their founder.

