CHAP. 27. ROMAN HISTORY. 343

<*.

CHAP. XXVII.

The Dictator marches against the Mqui and Volsci.

./\LL these things were performed with remarkable

dispatch, and the consul, C. Julius being left for the de­

fence of the city; and L. Julius, general of the horse, to

provide for the sudden exigencies of the war, that their

motions might not be retarded with any thing they might

want in the camp, the dictator vowed, in a form pre­

scribed by A. Cornelius, the pontifex Maximus, the great

games, on account of the present confusion. Then

inarching out of the city, and dividing his command

with the consul Quinctius, he came up with the enemy.

As they had observed that the enemy had two camps, at

no great distance from each other, they likewise encamp­

ed about a mile from them, the dictator at a place near

Tusculum, and the consul near Lnnuvium. Thus they

had tour armies, and as many fortified camps, .with a

plain in the middle, not only large enough to admit of

skirmishes between small parties, but to,contain the ar­

mies on both sides, drawn up in battalia. From the mo­

ment the camps lay in this opposite direction, a single

day did not pass without small encounters; the dictator

giving the soldiers full liberty to try their strength with

the enemy, that the event of these skirmishes might gra­

dually lead them to hopes of victory m a general battle.

Wherefore, the enemy despairing of success, by fight­

ing it fairly in the open plain, attacked the consul's

camp in the night, staking their all upon a very uncer­

tain event. The sudden shout they raiser", not only

alarmed the consul's guards, and afterwards his whole

army, but roused the dictator himself. In cases of im­

mediate danger, the consul wanted not courage, nor

conduct. A party was ordered to reinforce the guards,

at the gates, and others to post themselves round the

rampart. In the dictator's camp, as there was less hurry

and confusion, so he could the better provide'for the

present exigence. Wherefore, having immediately dis­

patched a reinforcement to the consul's camp, under the

command of his lieutenant-general, Sp. Posthumius,

Q

