CHAP. 10. ROMAN HISTORY. 119 ,

great was the complaisance which was shown to the peo­

ple, by the senate at I hat time.

Their first care was to lay in provisions; for procur­

ing which, agents were sent among the Volsci and to

Curnae.* And because the tax on salt was farmed at a

very high rate, the monopoly was taken from private

persons, and committed to clerks, who were to manage

it for the public. The common people were relieved of

all imposts and taxes whatever, whicU were laid upon the

rieh, who were able to bear them. The poor contribut­

ed enough to the state, when they brought up their chil­

dren. Wherefore this tenderness of the fathers, so unit­

ed the hearts of the people, that notwithstanding all the

distresses they suffered, during the siege and famine, the

name of king was equally detestable to high and lowj

nor could ever a man since that period, by mdirect prac­

tices acquire a popularity equal to that which the senate

obtained by their good government.

Ui

CHAP. X.

The gallantty of Cocks.

I PON the enemy's approach, eyery one, to save him­

self, fled from the country into the city: the city itself

they secured with strong guards; and having walls upon

one side, and the Tiber on the other, it seemed pretty

we'll defended:

The bridge Sublicius, however, had almost opened a ]&

passage for the enemy into the city, when the gallantry

of one man, Horatius Cocles, prevented it. To him did

•the fortune of Rome owe its defence that day. He hap­

pened to be placed sentry on the bridge, when he saw

the Janiculum taken by surprise, and the enemy running

down from thence with all the speed they coulci: observ­

ing a crowd of the Romans throwing down their arms, and

leaving their ranks in confusion, he laid hold of them,

one by one, pulling them back, and beseeching them in

the name of gods and men: he declared, "That their

"flight would signify nothing, if they once deserted their

"post; if they left the bridge behind them, free for the

* A city of Campania.

