70 TITUS LIVIUS* BOOK I

art, as it is said, " Come, you conjurer," says lie, " tell

"me by augury, whether, what I just now conceive in

"my mind, can be effected?" The other, when he had

consulted his birds, returned and told the king, it could

surely be done. "Truly then," says the king," I was

*' just thinking within myself, whether it were possible  
"to cut this flint with this razor: do, take them, and per-

"form what your birds say is possible." In a moment,

they say, he cut the flint.—A statue of Attus, with his

head veiled, was erected in the Comitium upon the stairs,

on the left of the senate house, where the affair happen­

ed. They likewise add, that the flint was deposited in-

the same spot, where it might remain, as a monument of

the miracle to posterity.

This affair brought so much credit on augury, and the

college of augurs, thai no matter of any moment, in

peace or war, was ever after carried into execution, till

the birds were consulted. Assemblies were broke up,

armies disbanded, and negotiations, the most important,

broke off) when the birds were averse.

Tarquin, at that time, made no alteration in the cen­

turies of horse, save only, that he doubled the comple-

. ment of men in each corps; so that the three centuries

consisted of one thousand eight hundred knights.

CHAP. XXXVII. .

Tarquin beats the Salines.

JriAVING thus augmented his cavalry,.he had another

brush with the Sabines: and, although his army had been

considerably reinforced; yet, with all the secrecy he

could, he put in practice the following stratagem. He

dispatched a party to set fire to a heap of timber, as it

lay on the banks of the Anio, and afterwards to throw it

into the river. The timber thus set on fire, and driven

by the wind, catched hold of the piles and boats, and so

set the bridge in a flame. This contrivance damped the

Sabin'es not a little in time of action; and, after they

were routed, greatly retarded their flight; so that many

of them, who might have made good their retreat, were

