14. TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK I.

people, for a period of more than seven centuries, must

be a very laborious task; more especially as from a be­

ginning the most inconsiderable, they raised themselves

to a pitch of greatness which they are now hardly able

to support. To the generality of readers, too, I doubt

not, but the origin of the city, and what immediately

followed, will be less interesting, whilst they hurry on

to these latter times, when, for several years past, the

power of this extraordinary people hath been engaged

in working its own destruction.—On the other hand,

should I have no other reward for my trouble, while

my attention is totally engaged in reviewing those scenes

of antiquity, I can at least withdraw mine eyes from be­

holding the raging wickedness of the times, and conse­

quently be void of care, which, though it may not influ- .

ence the mind of a writer, with respect to truth, can

very sensibly hurt his feelings.

What happened before, and about the time the city

was built, as the accounts are rather embellished with

poetical fables than supported by incontestible authorities,

I am resolved neither to affirm nor refute. It is an in­

dulgence allowed to antiquity, the better to stamp a su­

perior dignity on the original of cities, to blend things

human with divine: And if any people on earth can

possibly be allowed the privilege of consecrating their

original, and ascribing it to the gods, such is the mili­

tary g!"ry of the Roman people, that when they claim

a pecultar title to call Mars their author, and the father

of their founder, all the nations bear it as cheerfully as

they submit to their yoke. But these circumstances,

anj'mliers of the same nature, however taken or con­

sidered, shall give me no concern. I shall only request

the reader's serious attention to what respects the lives

and manners of this people, the men and measures, in

the cabinet and the field, by which their empire was

founded and exiended. Then let him still continue to

observe, whilst the strictness of their discipline gradually

relaxed, first a corruption of their morals, then a con­

stant progressive decay, and at last a total degeneracy,

till he arrive at the present age, when we can neither

bear our political disorders, nor the application of a re*

medy.

