CHAP. 50. ROMAN HISTORY. 181

CHAP. L.

-

The Fabii full into an ambuscade, and are cut off,

V/NCE more the Vejentes resumed their operation'

against the Fabii, without any new preparations; nor

did they content themselves with ravaging the countrv,

or making sudden incursions, but sometimes measured

their swords in pitched battles, upon fair ground. Thus

one Roman family, frequently carried off the victory

from a people, who were, at that time, the most opulent

of all the Etrurian nations. By this the Vejentes at first,

thought themselves disgraced and highly affronted: and,

in consequence, formed a design of laying ambuscades

for their intrepid enemy; and rejoiced to find, that the

forwardness of the Fabii increased with their repeated

victories.

Wherefore, herds of cattle were frequently driven out

in the way of foraging parties, as if they had lighted

on them by chance; and by the flight of the peasants,

vast tracts of land seemed to be abandoned. Parties of

soldiers were also sent out to chastise the ravagers, who

retreated oftener through a pretended than a real fear.

By this time, the Fabii held the enemy in such sove­

reign contempt, that they did not imagine they could

stand against their victorious arms, let the occasion or

ground be ever so advantageous< Elated with these

hopes, and seeing some herds of cattle grazing in a plain,

at a considerable distance from Cremera, although they

were guarded by some small parties of the enemy, they

ran from the fort to carry them off. Thinking them­

selves secure, they had passed the ambush laid for them

on both sides of the way, and had dispersed in pursuit

of the cattle, straggling through the fields, which they

always do upon an alarm; the enemy suddenly quitting

their lurking places, appeared all at once, in front and

in rear, and on every side.

At first they raised a terrible shout, and then poured

in a volley of darts upon them from every quarter. The

Etrurians came closer together, till the Fabii were totally

surrounded, by one strong uniform body of armed muti,

