9. ROMAN HISTORY. 446

a plain below, declaring at the same time, that they

would submit to any punishment, if they did not force it

before night. He commended their ardour, bid them

refresh themselves, and be ready at the fourth watch.

As the enemy, to hinder the Romans from escaping

from the* hilt to Verrugo, in the night-time, were guard-

Ing the road that led thither, the two armies met there.

The action began before day-light, but-the moon shone

bright all the night over, and they could see what they

were about, as well as by day. The shouts of the com­

batants reaching Verrugo, it was believed there that

.Posthumius' camp was assaulted, which occasioned such

a fright, that notwithstanding all that /Emilius could

urge to prevent them, the troops dispersed and: fled for

refuge to Tusculum. Thence flew a report to Rome,

that Posthumius and hrs army were cut to pieces. Bat

Posthumius, as soon as it was light, and safe to make a

hot pursuit without danger of falling into an ambush,

rode through the ranks, reminding them of their pro­

mise, which inspired them with such ardour, that the

JEqni could no longer stand before them. The slaughter

that-ensued of the fugitives, was rather the effects , of re­

sentment than bravery, and ended in the destruction of

the enemy. Posthumius' letter crowned with laurel soon

undeceived them with respect to the melancholy news

from Tusculum, bearing that the Romans had gained a

complete victory, and that the army of the flLijui had

been quite destroyed.

CHAP. XXIX.

Motions ef the JEtpd. Trial and condemnation of two

Tribunes.

the tribunes of the people had made no progress

in their bill, the commons laboured hard to keep those

in office who had proposed it, as did the fathers, on the

other hand, tq get those re-elected, who had opposed it.

The commons prevailed however in the com it ia. The

fathers, in revenge of this disappointment, procured a

decree of the sentate for electing consuls, magistrates that

were odious to the people. After an interval of fifteen

years, L. Lucretius Flavus, and Servilius Sulpicius Corne­

ll , •

