CHAP. 9. ROMAN HISTORY. 325

guardians expatiated publicly, on the injustice of the

sentence, among the people of their own order, in the

forum; and, having made up a party, seized the young

lady, and carried her off' from her mother's house. In

opposition to them, a party of the nobility, still more

formidable, joined the injured youth, and bloody work

ensued.

The people, who bore no resemblance to the people

of Rome, were worsted, and marched out of the city in

arms* posting themselves upon an eminence, whence

they laid waste the lands of the nobility with fire and

sword: and having, by the hopes of plunder, drawn a

great many mechanics to their party, they made prepa­

rations for besieging the city, which hitherto had sus­

tained no damage from the insurrection. War now ap­

peared in all its dreadful shapes and colours : the whole

community being as it were, infected with the distrac­

tion of two young men, who were contending for a mar­

riage, fatal to themselves, and destructive to their coun­

try.

Neither thougTit their internal resources sufficient for

the conflict; for which reason, the nobility applied to

the Romans for relief, while the city was besieged, and

the commons called in the Volsci, to assist them in the

reduction of the city. The Volsci appeared first before

Ardea, under the command ot Cluiiius, an ./E^uian ge­

neral, and shut up the city by a line of circumvallation

drawn round its walls. When these accounts were

brought to Rome, the consul Geganius lost not a mo­

ment in marching with his army, ami encamped within

three miles of the enemy; where, as the day was far

spent, he ordered the troops to refresh themselves. At

the fourth watch, he proceeded and carried on his works

with such expedition, that at sun-rising, the Volsci

found themselves blocked up by a fortification, superior

in strength to that wherewith they had invested the city;

whilst, at another quarter, the consul had carried his

works to the walls of Ardea, that his army might have

a free communication with the town.

P

