..CHAP.. IS. ROMAN HISTORY. '»,

fight or fly, the infantry drew back also. Upon this,

the enemy's gates instantly flew open, and out they rush

from every quarter. The Roman army fled before them;

and by their eagerness to pursue, and harass them in

tbeir retreat, were decoyed to the place where the party

lay in ambush. The Romans, starting up all of a sud­

den, attack the enemy in flank; the guard which had

been left in the camp, advancing at the same time, with

colours flying, added to their consternation.—The Fide-

itates being thus alarmed, from every quarter, took to

their heels, almost before it was possible for Romulus,

and those who attended him on horseback, to wheel

about: and fled in earnest back to the town, much faster

than before they had pursued the pretended fugitives.

But all 'could not save them ; for Romulus keeping close

at their heels, before they could shut the gates, entered

among them with his army, as if they had all belonged

to the same corps,

CHAP. XV.

The Vejentes conquered.

J. HE sparks which issued from the war with the Fide-

nates, set the minds of the Vejentes on fire. And, their

relation, (for the Fidenates were also Etrurians,) added

to their vicinity, should this warlike disposition continue

with the Romans, to the molestation of their neighbours,

blew it up into a flame. Wherefore, they made an in­

cursion into the Roman territories; but it had more the

air of a plundering match, than a regular expedition.

F»r, without encamping, or waiting for an -enemy, they

returned to Veii, loaded with their plunder.

Romulus, on the other hand, finding the enemy had

evacuated the country; being already prepared, and now

determined to give them a decisive blow, crosses the

Tiber. When the Vejentes were informed that he had

already encamped, and was on the point of advancing

to their city, they chose rather to risk a battle, than

shut up within, be obliged to fight from their houses and

walls. There Romulus, without the least stratagem, by

Vy

