. 47. ROMAN HISTORY. 175

it with his shield, cried put, " Was it to this purpose,

•' you swore, gentlemen, that you would fly back, with

"the enemy at your heels, to the camp? Are you so

"much more afraid of these your most dastardly ene-

"mies, than of Jupiter and Mars, by whom you have

"sworn? I, who have not yet sworn, shall either return

"victorious, or fall here, with my sword in my hand,

"near thee, O Quint us Fabius." -

Theji Ci«so Fabius, who had been his predecessor in

office, steps up to the consul, and asks him, " Is it with

these words, brother, that you think to succeed with

soldiers? No. The gods by whom they have sworn,

will give them resolution. As for us, for the credit

of the rank we bear, and fhe honour of the Fabian

name, let us animate our fellow-soldiers, more by the

gallantry of our actions, than the force of our argu­

ments." With these words, the two Fabii flew with

their lances, to the foremost ranks, and drew the whole

battalion after them.

CHAP. XLVIl.

Defeat of the Vejentes, Ifc. Manliut killed, Fabiut

becomes popular.

T'

HE battle being thus restored in one wing, the con­

sul, C. Manlius, with no less gallantry began the action

in the other, where fortune almost took the same turn.

For, as in the other, the soldiers nobly supported Q. Fa­

bius, so in this, they kept close by Manlius, driving the

enemy before him, -as if they had been totally routed,

but receiving a dangerous wound, he retired from the

field, and thinking he was killed, drew back; and they

would have retreated, had not the other consul gallopping

up with some squadrons of horse, cried aloud, that his

colleague was alive, and that he himself having routed

the other wing of the enemy, was come to their assis­

tance, and by that means recovered the fortune of the

day. Manlius too, to re-animate his troops, placed him­

self again at their head.

The sight of the two consuls gave the Romans new

courage. The enemy's ranks, were at this time, .const.

