172 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK II.

to their scandalous behaviour 'last war was terrible;

especially when they considered that they might be in

the same predicament, to have the terror of two armies

upon them at the same time. Wherefore, to'avoid a

danger which tlirea-'ened them within, as well as with­

out, thev kept within their camp, hoping that time,

and a little delay, would soften their resentment against

the senate, and bring them to reason. This prompted

the confederates to act with still greater assurance. They

challenged them tri turn on*. They rode .up before the

camp and insulted them. At last when they found nei­

ther the consuls, nor the army, in ihe least affected by

their rodomontade, they cried out, " That they only

pretended to have differences among themselves, to

serve for a cloak to their cowardice; and that it was

not the fidelity, but the courage of the soldiers, which

the consuls suspected.—That silence and quietness

among men in arms was a species of sedition never

heard of before;"

Besides these reproaches, they upbraided .them with

the obscurity of their origin and novelty of their fami­

lies; in some respects true, and others not. These in­

vectives thrown out under their noses, at the foot of the

rampart and'gates of the camp, gave the consuls no con­

cern, but stung the soldiers, unaccustomed to such lan­

guage, with shame and indignation, at the satiietime that

their domestic quarrels were quite forgot. That the ene­

my should pa-s unpunished, they could by no means

subscribe to; but then they could not bear that the fa­

thers, or consuls, should have the glory "of a Victory.

Thus were they agitated between two violent impulses

of mind, with respect to their foreign and domestic ene­

mies. At length their indignation against the former

prevailed, unable to bear their outrageous insults any

longer: They came in crowds to the consuls tents, in­

sisting that they should be led on to battle, and the sig­

nal given. The consuls seemed to confer together about

the part they should act, and drew out their conference

to a great length. They wished for nothing more than

to engage; but it was necessary to conceal it, in order to

quicken the resentment of the soldiers, by a seeming de­

lay and opposition. They therefore returned for an­

