140 . TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK II.

the senators might take arms, and march against the ene­

my; let them who reaped the fruits of war, encounter

the dangers of it. .

The sertate, in so critical a conjuncture, having every

thing to fear from within, as well as without the walls,

were in the utmost perplexity; wherefore, they entreat­

ed the consul Servilias, whose disposition was milder and

more popular than his colleague's^ to ex*rt himself for

the delivery of the state, from the evil that threatened it.

Servilius having dismissed the senate, repaired to an

assembly of the people, where he tells them, That the

fathers had nothing more at heart, than the redress of

their grievances: but in the moment they were delibe­

rating on proper measures for their interest, who were

but a part, though by far the greatest, a far more serious

subject of fear had occurred to interrupt them, which re­

garded the wliole community. Nor was it possible for

them, while the enemy had almost reached their gates,

to apply their minds to any other subject, but the war.

And though some respite were given, it would not be­

come the people to refuse to take up arms for their coun­

try, till they had been paid beforehand, and as little for

the honour of the senate, to provide for their insolvent

citizens, through motives arising from their present fears,

than afterwards as the effects of inclination. To con­

vince the assembly of the reality of these intentions, he

published a proclamation, " Prohibiting all and sundry,

"from detaining a Roman citizen in prison, or in chains,

"go as to prevent his enlisting himself under the con-

"suls; and from seizing or selling the effects of any sol-

"dier, or arresting his children, or grandchildren, while

"he remained in camp." 'This edict being publish­

ed, the debtors who were present, immediately gave in

their names; and as now their persons could not be de­

tained by their creditors came out from their conceal­

ments, and crowded into the forum to take the military

oath. Of these a considerable party was completed, and

none behaved with greater gallantry, or contributed

more to put an end to the war with the Volsci. The

consul led out his army against the enemy, and encamp­

ed not far from then?.

