84 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK I,

"a kingdom; who remembers ,that he is the son of a

"king; and one who would rather he in possession now,

"than look for a kingdom. 'If you are the man, whom

"I think I married, I must call you both husband and

"kmg; if not, I have made a miserable change, because

"I have got a coward m a murderer. Why do not you

"bestiryourself? You have no occasion, like your father,

"to come from Corinth, or Tarquiuii, in questof a king-

"dom amonsjst foreigners; your household gods, the

"gods of your country, the statue of your father, the

"patace where you dwell, the regal throne in that pa-

"lace, and the very name of Tarquin, create and call

"you king. But, if none of these things can rouse you

"to action, why do you deceive the expectations of the

"people, why do you suffer them to regard you as a man

"of a princely soul? Go, coward; get you hence toTar-

"quinii, or Corinth, and sink into the former obscurity

"of your family, since you have more in you of your

"brother, than your father."

By these, and such reproaches, the young man's mind

was set on fire; nor could she be at rest herself. "If

"Tanaquil," thought she, "who was a foreigner, had the

"address to dispose of the kingdom twice successively,

"first to her husband, and then to bet son-in-law, shall

"I, who am born a princess, have no influence what-

'' ever, in taking away or bestowing a crown?"

Tarquin, impelled by the reveries of this mad woman,

renewed his intrigues among the senators, particularly

those of the last creation, putting them in mind of his

father's favours, for which he now was soliciting a" re­

turn. The young men he engaged to his interest by

presents, promising to do wonders in his administration:

and wherever he went, charging the king with the

blackest crimes. At last, when he found a proper op­

portunity for putting his design in execution, surround­

ed with a .body of armed men, he forced his way into

the forum; and whilst all present were struck with ter­

ror, placing himself on the throne in the senate-house,

he ordered the fathers to be summoned to attend king

Tarquin, in the house, by the public crier. They im­

mediately obeyed; some because they were in the plot,

others through fear that their absence might be made

