448 . - TITUS IL1VIUS' BOOKV.

that it had been -better Veil had never been taken, than

Rome be thus deserted.

As the Patricians abstained from all violence, and on-

•lv.employed prayers and entreaties upon this occasion,

which they mingled with frequeut mention of the gods,

it became a point of'religion with most of the tribe? , so

that the law was rejected, though it was only by a ma­

jority of one of the tribes. The senate were so overjoy­

ed at this victory, that -the next day, upon a motion

made by the consuls, the senate enacted, that seven acres

.of the lands of Veii should be assigned to each commoner;

not only to every father of a family, but to every single

person of free condition ia his family, as an inducement

to them to marry and bring up children.

x "•".. CHAP. XXXI. .

New enemies start up against Rome. A. R. 36O.

J. HEpeople were so sensible of this obligation, that they

suffered the comitia to be held for electing consuls, with­

out the least opposition. The fasces were accordingly

transferred to L. Valerius Potitus, and M. Manlrus, who

afterwards gotthe sirnanie of Capitolinus. These consuls

celebrated the great games which M. Furius had vowed,

when dictator in the Vejentian war.

This year also, the temple of queen Juno, vowed by

the same dictator, during the same war, was dedicated;

when, by all accounts, the zeal of the Roman ladies

rendered the ceremony particularly splendid. With the

.32qni there was an action at the Algidus, but of no great

consideration, as the enemy were routed almost before

they had struck a stroke: Valerius had a triumph decreed

him, because he pursued the enemy farther, and did

more execution than Manlius, who was only honoured

with an ovation. . ,

In this same year, anew war broke out with the Volsi-

nienses, against whom no new army could be led, because

a famine and pestilence, occasioned by an excessive hot

and dry season, then raged in the Roman territory.

This gave the Volsinienses so much-assurance, that 11

