178 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK II.

spirit of Caeso Fabius, which formerly appeared great in

every manly exertion, through an excess of glory, was

now enervated and effeminate.

After this, in the city, party prejudice continued dor­

mant. The Latins were, however, harassed by the in­

roads of the $L'Iui. Coeso was dispatched with an army

to chastise them, and entered their country to make re­

prisals. Upon this, the /Equi retired mto their towns,

and kept themselves within their walls, for which reason

no remarkable action happened. By the rashness of the

other consul, the Roman army suffered severely, in an

action with the Vejentes, and Ijnt for the seasonable in­

tervention of Cseso had beeii all cnt to pieces.

From this time, with the Vejentes, there was neither

solid peace, nor open war. Tliflir views seemed to ex­

tend to rapine and plunder only. Upon the approach of

the Roman legions, they fled into tl]eir capitol ; and the

moment they disappeared, ihey renewed their incursions

upon the Roman territories, evading a general engage­

ment, by appearing to be at peare, and all terms of ac­

commodation, by repeated acts of hostility: so that this

war could neither be dropped, nor finally discussed.

There were other nations too, as the HL<\u\ and Volsci,

who never continuing longer quiet, than till they had

forgot their last loss, were on the |xiint of declarmg war;

nor was it improbable that the Sabines, the constant

enemies of Rome, and all Etruria would quickly arm

against them. But the Vejentes, who were rather cou-

stant, than a formidable enemy, gave them more trouble

by their frequent inroads, thnn apprehension of danger,

which at uo time could be so far overlooked, as to per­

mit their attention to be directed to any other i|narter.

Upon this, the Fabian family made a proposal to the

senate, by the mouth of the consul, in name of the rest,

to*the following etfect: "Conscript fatliers, to oppose

"the enterprises of the Vejentes, as you well know, re-

"quires raiher an assiduous than a powerful party.

"Do ye take care of the other wars, and leave us of the

"Fabian family to manage the Vejentes. We under-

"take to be the guardians of the majesty of the Roman

"name in that quarter. This war, we will carry on at

"our private expeoce, as if our family were only coo­

