456 , TITUS LIVKJS' BOOK V.

on the spot. Whilst he was stripping off his spoils, he

was known by the enemy, and the report immediately

spread through the whole army, that it was one of the

lioman ambassadors. From that moment, all hostilities

ceased against the Clusians. A retreat was sounded,

and nothing was heard but threats of vengeance against

Rome.

Some were of opinion, that they should instantly

march thither; but the advice of the elder in the council

prevailed, who were of opinion, that they ought to begin

by sending deputies to Rome, to complain of what bad

happened, and to require that the Fabii should be deli­

vered into their hands/ for having violated their charac­

ter, and with it, the law of nations.

After the Gaulic deputies had thus delivered their

commission, and made their demand, the senate were

much dissatisfied with the conduct of the Fabii, and made

no objection to the justice of what the Barbarians insisted

on. But a vicious complaisance for young persons of

their distinction, prevented the senators from determin­

ing what they thought no more than reasonable, on this

occasion. Wherefore, that they might not be charge­

able with the consequences, with which a rupture with

the Gauls might be attended, they referred the affair to i

the decision of the people. There the power and influ­

ence of the delinquents prevailed so much, that far from

punishing them, the people named them to the military

tribuneship for the following year: The deputies, full of

that indignation which may be easily conceived, return­

ed, breathing only war and revenge. With the three

Fabii, Q. Sulpicius Longus, Q. Servilius, a fourth time,

nnd Ser. Cornelius Maluginensis, were created military

tribunes.

CHAP. XXXVII.

• The Gauls march to Rome.

VV HEN Rome was threatened with such an inunda­

tion of misery, she did not, as was usual, in the wars

against the Fidenates, Vejentes, and other neighbouring •

states, apply the last and most vigorous measure, in ap-

"ointing a dictator; so much does fortune infatuate m en,

