308 BOOK III. TITUS LIVIUS'

'still fresh in his memory. That the territory in ques-

r tion was a pertinent of Corioli, which being .subjected

'to the Romans, the land of course became the property

'of the Roman people. That it surprised him, how in

'all the world, the Arcini and Ardeates, who bad never

'claimed this territory while Corioli existed as a state,

'could expect to ascertain their claim to it, by making

• the Romans, who had the legal right, arbitrators in the

'case. That for his own part he had not long to live,

'and since he could do po more now, when he was old, he

'could not help claiming possession by his feeble voice,

'of a property, to the acquisition of which, he had con-

« tributed all in his power when young. And that it

• was his earnest advice to the people, that they should

'not, by a mistaken and foolish modesty, pass judgment

'against themselves,'

CHAP. LXXII.

T!ie People adjudge in their own favour.

1 HE consuls nmding that the multitude listened to

Scaptius, with every mark of attention and satisfaction,

called gods and men to witness their dissent from the no­

torious injustice just about to be committed, and calling

the chief men of the state, with them went about implor­

ing the tribunes, ' To use their best endeavours to dis­

suade the people from introducing the practice among

arbitrators, of adjudging to themselves a subject sub­

mitted 10 their decision, which is not only infamou^

in itself, but of the most pernicious tendency; for,

suppose, in thia case, their claim was well found­

ed, and for that reason, a concern for their own inte­

rest became justifiable; yet it would be highly iropo-

litical: for the acquisition of this territory would be

but a poor compensation for the imputation of injus­

tice, and the loss of the friendship of their allies.

Moreover, in point of character and credit, the loss

was irreparable. Shall the deputies of the states carry

home the news? shall it be told to the allies, and the

enemies of Rome? The first will be sorry;1—the last

will rejoice. Is it possible to imagine, that the neigh-

