3I* TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK IV.

think I have frequently, upon former occasions, ob­

served, O Romans, in what contempt the fathers hold

you, and how unworthy they think you of living with­

in the same walls with them; but at no time so strong­

ly marked as this day, in the violence and fury they

discovered in their opposition to our laws; in which, to-

what more do we pretend, but only to remind them,

that we are their fellow-citizens, and though we have

not the same fortunes, we, however, have the honour

to be inhabitants of the same country? By one of

these laws, we demand the liberty of marriage with

their order, a liberty seldom refused to neighbours;

nay, even strangers. Nay more, we have given the

right of citizenship, a circumstance of greater consider­

ation than family alliance, to enemies,—even conquer­

ed enemies. By the other, we claim nothmg new, but

what has always been the prerogative of the people,.

to bestow honours on whom they shall think proper.

What occasion then for all this uproar, as if heaven

and earth were falling to ruin, that they are ready to

tear me to pieces in their senate-house?—that they

threaten to have no regard to our persons, and to vio­

late the power of the tribunes, all sacred as it is? If

the Roman people be allowed to vote as they please,

and confer the consulship on whom they think proper,

and if a Plebeian has room to hope, that by his merit,

he may rise to the highest honours of the state; nftst

Rome of necessity sink at once? Must this empire be

unavoidably overturned? And does the same idea of"

impropriety attend the electiou of a consul from

among the people, thai would attend the promotion of

a slave, or a freed man to that dignity? Have you any

conception, Romans, of the contempt in which you are

held? If they could, they would deprive you of the

common light. You should not breathe, speak, nor ap­

pear in the human form. Nay, but that a Plebeian

should become a consul.—Good gods! what a prepos­

terous supposition! Though we are not admitted to in­

spect the Fasti, and the annals of the pontiffs, pray, do

not we know what every stranger knows, that the con­

suls succeeded the kings in their office, and that ihey

bad neither power* nor pre-eminence,, but what thi

