28* TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK III.

following effect. "Speeches are only necessary to sup-

"port causes that are doubtful; I shall not, therefore,

"take up your time in enumerating the crimes of a man,

"whose cruelty laid you under the necessity of taking

"up arms, to rescue yourselves from it; nor will 1 give

"him leave to aggravate his crimes, by the impudence

"of defending them. I shall not, therefore, Appius

"Claudius, touch upon your flagitious practices for the

"whole space of two years. There is one crime only,

"to which I shall confme my charge, and of which, if

*' you do not instantly clear yourself, I order you to be  
"led to prison. Why did you, contrary to law, refuse

"a person, whose liberty was brought into dispute, the

"possession of that liberty, till the trial was over?" ,

Appius had no hope of assistance from the tribunes,

noi- from the voices of the people; nevertheless, he cal­

led upon the tribunes; and finding none of them inter­

posing, when the officer laid hold of him to drag him

awav. he called out, / appeal. That word, the pillar of

popular liberty, from a man who had so lately violated

ine laws of liberty, caused an universal silence. The

v.uiloquy of every one was,—" It is plain there are gods,

"who make human affairs their care. The punishment

"of cruelty and pride is slow, but severe. Is the man

"who abolished all appeals, now reduced to have re-

"course to them, and to implore the protection of that

"' very people, of whose rights he was the subverter?—

"Is the unjust judge, who gave up a free person to sla-

"very, now himself abandoned to chains and prison,

"without the least sOpport from his privilege of liberty';"

'Amidst the murmurs of the people, Appius was heard

imploring their protection. He enumerated the great

services his ancestors had done to the state, both in peace

and in war. "He deplored his unhappy zeal for the

"interests of the people, which had induced him tore-

"nounce the consulship, to establish an equal right a-

"mong all the citizens, by a scheme of new laws, though

"by that mean's he had drawn the displeasure of the

"whole senate upon him: and though the laws ihem-

"selves he had lately instituted, were still in force, their

*' author was now to be dragged to prison. With re—  
"spect to other matters, he would render an account of

