CHAP. 70. ROMAN HISTORY. . 303

quarter from an enemy. from whom they had so often re­

volted.

CHAR EXX.

'- /

The jEqui and Volsci severely chastised:

HEN both consuls are in the same Roman army,

VV

they are vested with equal powers. But Agrippa, at

this time, yielded his authority to' his colleague, con­

vinced, that nothing is: more contrary to the prosperity

of great undertakings, than a divided command. Quinc-

tius repaid this compliment as he ought to have done,

by communicating to his colleague all his counsels, act-­

ing in concert with him in every instance, giving him a

share of the glory in all successes, and making him his

equal in all things without exception.

In the action, Quiuctius commanded the right wing,

Agrippa the left, Sp. Posthumius Albus, the lieutenant,.

the centre, and Ser. Sulpicius, another lieutenant-gene­

ral, commanded the cavalry. The foot on the right

fought with extraordinary bravery, and found a vigorous

resistance On the part of the Volsci.

Ser. Sulpicius, with the horse, broke through the ene­

my's main body, and might have returned the same

way, before the enemy had time to rally and put them­

selves in form, but he thought it better to charge them

in the rear: and had not the Equian and Vohcian ca­

valry come up, and attacked him in his own way, and

by that means suspended the fortune of the day, he

would, in a. moment, have put them to flight, as by his

attack they were greatly disconcerted both in front and

in rear. Sulpicius then cried out to his troops, ' That

now was their time; — that they would be immediately

surrounded, and all communication with their own

army would be cut off, if by a vigorous effort, they

did not dispatch the enemy's horse. To put them to

flight, and let them live, was doing nothing; they

must dispatch both men and horses, that neither might

return to renew the battle. They will never be able

to stand before you, now that you have already broke -

through the main body of theiv foot.'

