™x THE TRANSLATOR

which the spirit of the author would have evaporated, and

the freedom of a loose paraphrase, which would not have

answered the purpose intended by it. In one word, I

have endeavoured, as far as I could, to transfuse the sen­

timents and fire of Livy into a British botly: but how far

I have succeeded, I must leave to the impartial public.

To render the purchase easy, and that I may have the

opinion of the public, before I should proceed farther, I

have confined myself at present to five Books.—If these

already translated be read with a proper degree of atten­

tion, a translation for the rest will not be perhaps neces­

sary: however, should this specimen be well received,

the rest may soon follow.

Although the work of TITUS Livius have immortalized

his name, he was too regardless of popular applause, or

places of distinction, and too much delighted with philoso­

phical retirement and humble privacy, to leave many

vestiges of his rank, employments, adventures, or fortune.

It is, however, generally agreed, that he was born at Pa­

dua, and descended p? no obscure family, since it had the

honour to give consuls to the Republic of Rome.—It is.

also known, that he lived in the Augustan age;* that

he dedicated to Augustus, those Dialogues, which he

published on the philosophical questions of the times, and

that this made him known, and recommended him to the

favour of that emperor: That he afterwards wrote a

Treatise on Eloquence, inscribed to his son, of which.

Quintilian makes honourable mention.—We also know,

that he began to write his history at Rome, where he

might have recourse to such memorials and original pa­

pers, that had been preserved in the capitol, as were pro­

per to set him to rights concerning the origin of the city,

and to remove those Intricacies and doubts, into which.

fabulous traditions had involved it. That after he was

sufficiently master of his subject, he retired to Naples,

where his labours might meet with fewer interruptions.

That some time after this, he read some passages of his

history to the emperor Augustus and Maecenas, of which,

they formed so favourable an opinion, that the emperor

* T. Liv. lib. 1. cap. 19.

