Chap. 15. ROMAN HISTORY. . ISS

as he bad deforced the officer, and was endeavouring to'

raise an insurrection among the people, he had received

from him the punishment due to his crime. Bravely

done, returned the dictator, C. Servians; then Rome is yet

a free state.

CHAP. XV.

The Dictator accounts to the people for the pimiihmcnt of

Malius.

A. HE Dictator then called an assembly of the people,

who were in great commotion, and quite uncertain as to

the judgment they ought to pass on what they had seen.

There the dictator tells them, ' That Mailius had justly

'merited his fate, had he even been innocent of the high

'crime charged against him, for having disobeyed the

'dictator's summons delivered to him by the master of

'horse. That he had taken his place on the tribunal,

'on purpose to enquire into that affair, after which he

'should have done Maelius the justice he deserved.

'That as he had recourse to force, to screen himself

'from judgment, violent measures were used in correct-

'ing his obstinacy. He had no title to be treated as a

'citizen, who, though born among a free people, in the

'midst of its laws and regulations, in a city from whence

'kings had been expelled ; who knew that in the very

'year of their expulsion, the king's nephews, sons also

'of that consul who was the deliverer of his country,

'because they had conspired to receive the kings into

'Rome, were condemned to suffer death by their own

* father: That in the same city, the consul Collatinus  
'Tarquinius, out of hatred only to his name, had been

'obliged to resign his office as consul, and banish him-

'self from his country; where Spurius Cassius, some

'years after, had suffered death for a design, of esta-

* Wishing tyranny? and that very recently, the tyranni-  
'cal haughtiness with which the decemvirs lorded it

'over the people, had been punished with confiscation

'of their estates, banishment and death itself; and yet,

'notwithstanding such examples, had the impudence to

'lift his eyes to the sovereignty of Rome. And after

