230 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK III.

\

soners were punished according to their quality, as free­

men or slaves. The Tu.-culans had the public thanks.

The capitoi was cleansed and purified, and the people

are said to have cast farthings into the consul's house,

that he might be buried with the greater pomp.

CHAP. XIX.

The Tribunes over-ruled, by the noble efforts of Cinrinnattu.

J. HIS affair was no sooner happily terminated, than

the tribunes became importunate with the senators, to

perform the promise made them by P. Valerius. They

pressed Claudius, to deliver the manes of his colleagues,

from the imputation of treachery, by suffering them,

without interruption, to go on in the affair of the law.

Claudius told them that the question was inadmissible,

till once they had given him a colleague. They con­

tinued to wrangle upon this point, till the Comitia were

held for the election of a new consul. In the month of

December, L. Quinctius Cincinnatus, Cseso's father, ow­

ing to the indefatigable application of the father? , wasap-

pointed to the consular fasces.

This choice was a thunder-stroke to the people, as

they were now under the government of a magistrate of

great abilities, great credit in the senate, and higblv ex­

asperated against them, and besides had three sons; in

magnanimity not inferior to Caeso, and in prudence far

surpassing him, when they had occasion to display it.

He no sooner entered upon office, than in the speeches

which he daily made from his tribunal, he applied him­

self no less to rouse the senate from their lethargy, than

to check the licentiousness of the people. Addressing

himself to the senators, he told them, " That it was

owing to their constant facility, and wantof resolution

that the same men were continued in the tribuneship

from year to year, men, who by their impeachments

ami toul language, lord it over the state, as a set of

bullies do over a brothel. That courage, constancy,

in fine, every virtue, civil and military, ih.it adorn

youth, was driven from Rome, with his son Caeso.

Babblers, batchers of sedition, and divisions in the

