15* TITUS LIV1US' Book II.

was a young officer, a Pairician by birth, named Mar-

cius, ureally esteemed for his valour and prudence, and

afterwards sir-named Coriolanus. Wlnle the Romans

were engaged in the siege ofCoriof, and their an cut toil

wholly t.iken up with the operations of the besieged wrh-

in the walls, and apprehending no danger from without,

the Volscian legions marching from Antium, fell sudden­

ly upon them, at t:,e same time ihat the besieg-d made

a vigorous sally from (he town. Marcius happened to

be then on guard, and pulling himself at the head of a

select corps, he not 'miy repulsed those who had sallied

from the town, but rushing luriously in at a gaie they

had opened, and having tilled ihe part of the city that

lay next to him with blood and slaughter, he hastily

snaiched up some fire, and threw it against the houses

that overlooked the wall.

The cries of the townsmen, and the shrieks of the

women and children, when they saw the flames break-

in" out, gave the Romans new spirits, and damped the

enemy, who found the city was taken, they had come

to relieve. Thus were the Volsci roined, and Corioli

taken at the same time.

The glory acquired by Marcius in this war, so far

eclipsed the reputation of the consul, that if the treaty

made with the Latins, by Sp. Ca"sius alone, whilst his

colleague was absent, an.I engraven on a pillar of brass,

had not handed down to posterity, that Posihumius Co-

minius commanded ,in the expedition against the Volsci,

his concern there wrould have been totally forgot.

This year, the public lost Menenius Agnppa, a man,

who through the who e course of his life, had been dear

to both senate and people, but still more so to the people

after their secession, although he had the honour to be

mediator and umpire in the dispute between the orders,

although he was chosen delegate from the fathers to the

peop'e, and although he had influence to re-unite the

people to the senate, he died so poor, that all his estate

was not sufficient to defray the expence of his funeral.

That charge was defrayed by the people, who assessed

themselves for that purpose, each in the value of the

sixth parth of an ass.*

* The one eighth part of a farthing.

