CHAP. 60. ROMAN HISTORY. 289

of their tribunes, gave a very seasonable check to the

immoderate stretch of power; " declaring, that enough

had been done, both for the security of their liberties,

and the punishment of their enemies; and therefore

he wouM sutler no person to be cited to a trial, nor

committed to prison, during the remainder of the year.

With respect to the past, to revive the remembrance of

old faults, which ought to be buried in oblivion, now

that the decemvirs, in their punishment, had expiated

new ones, would be highly improper. With respect

to the future, the steady and unanimous zeal of both

consuls in guarding the liberty of the people, would be

sufficient security that nothing will happen to require

the interposition of the tribunes."

This moderation of the tribunes, served in the first

place to dispel the fears of the senators, but on the other

hand increased their aversion to the consuls, who had

declared so openly and so entirely for the people, that a

Plebeian magistrate should see cause to take upon him

the interest and safety of the senate before a Patrician;

and that their enemies had been satisfied with revenge,

before the consuls took any measure for opposing their

licentiousness. Many blamed their own negligence and

facility, in giving their sanction to the laws passed by

those consuls in favour of the people; and it was suffi­

ciently obvious, that nothing but the distracted state of

the Republic had obliged them to comply with the*times.

CHAP. LX. .

An action with the JEqui and Volsci.

X HE domestic troubles being thus settled, and the li­

berty of the people firmly established, the consuls went

each into his respective province. Valerius, by a master­

ly stroke of policy, supported the war against the 55qui

and Volsci, whose armies were joined at the Aigidus.

Had he immediately risked a battle, it is hard to say,

considering how the courage of the parties stood aflect-

ed, after what happened when the decemvirs command­

ed, whether it would not have been of dangerous con­

sequence. He kept the army close within their lines,

