CHAP. 39. ROMAN HISTORY. 161

"gentlemen resolve to bury in oblivion, the injuries

"done you by the Romans in former times, and the

"losses you have suffered; in short, though you should

"forget all former wrongs, is it possible that you can

"tamely bear the insult offered you to-day by the Ro­

mans, who have made our disgrace the 'prelude to

their games? Are you not sensible of the triumph

they have this day over you? What! in the face of

all the citizens,—all the strangers,—all the neigh­

bouring states, to make such an ignominious depart-

ture? Were not your wives and your children public­

ly affronted? What were the sentiments of those who

heard the proclamation? What were the sentiments of

those who saw you leaving the city? Or, what were the

sentiments of those who met you on the way loaded with

ignominy? Why? that we are a set of impious and

profane wretches, whose presence would have pollut-

"ed the solemnity of the games, and that we were re-

"turning to make expiation? This, therefore is the rea-

"son, we are driven from the habitation, the company,

"and communication of honest men. What! are you

not sensible that our very lives depended on our

'speedy departure? If it does not rather deserve the

name of a flight. Do you not consider the Romans

as your enemies, among whom, one day's delay would

have been our last? War is declared against you in

"this affront, to the perdition of those who have doni;

"it, if you are but men." Full of resentment before of

themselves, and exasperated still more with this discourse

of Tullu?, each returned to his own home, and inflamed

their countrymen to that degree, that the whole nation

"revolted.

I

CHAP. XXXIX.

The Romans dreadfully alarmed, sue to Coriolanus 'fat-

peace.

JjY the unanimous consent of ail the states, AttiusTul-

lu.', and the Roman exile, C. Marcius, in whom they

bad an extraordinary confidence, were chosen generals

to conduct the war. Nor did he ever disappoint them;

that it might be evident from his conduct, that the Re.

mans owed more to the abilities of their generals, in their

