CHAF. 16. ROMAN HISTORY. 129

CHAP, XVI.

War with the Sabines. Revolt of Pometia. Death of

Valerius.

/\FTER this, M. Valerius and P. Posthumius, were

chosen consuls. This year the Roman arms were suc­

cessful against the Sabines, and the consuls received the

honour of a triumph. Upon this, the Sabines renewed

their preparations with more vigour than ever. The

better to guard against them, and to prevent anv sur­

prise from Tusculum, whence they were apprehensive of

a war, though no declaration had ensued, P. Valerius for

the fourth time, and Lucretius for the second time, were

made consuls.

The Sabines were split into two factions, one of which

were for peace, and the other for war, by which means

a part of their strength was transferred to Rome. For

Atta Clausus, afterwards called Appius Claudius at

Rome, having always declared for peace, being for that

reason harshly treated, by those in the opposition, for

whom he Was by no means a match, fled from Regillum

with a considerable number of vassals in his retinue, and

settled in Rome. They were made citizens, and had

lands assigned them on the other side of the Anio. They

went by the name of the old Claudian tribe, and were

afterwards increased with the addition of some small

tribes, which had come from that country. Appius

himself being brought into the senate, in a short time

rose to the highest dignity of that order.

The consuls marched into the Sabine territory with an

hostile army; and by ravaging their country, and after­

wards by defeating them in battle, having reduced them

so low, that they had no reason to dread an insurrection

for a considerable time, returned to Rome in triumph.

The next year in the consulship of Agrippa Menenius,

ami P. Posthumius, died P. Valerius, allowed by all to

have been the ablest roan in Rome, both in the arts of

peace and war, full of glory, but so destitute of the

poods of fortune, that his funeral charges could not be

iic frayed from his own estate, 'and he was therefore In* •

•

V-i.

