373 TITUS UVRTS' - BOOK IV.

The consuls had moved, that besides the two city (juie*-

tors, there should be. two others created to attend the

army, and assist the consuls in time'of war. This motion

was highly approved of by the fathers, bat the tribunes

of the commons were determined to oppose it, unless the

consuls added a clause, that some of the qucestors, who

till then had always been Patricians, shoutd be chosen

- out of .the Plebeiaji order. J The consuts, and a:so the  
senators, at first, opposed TlSis-*u^endment with all their

might; but afterwards yielded so far, that in the electioti

of quaestors, as in that of-military tribunes with consular

power, the people should be at liberty to cliuse whom

they thought proper. When this proposal was not ac­

cepted, they dropt the design of increasing the number

of quaestors entirely.

The tribunes took up the affair where the senators left

it, and soon after introduced other seditious claims, and

amongst t'he rest, that of the Agrarian law. Upon ac­

count of these commotions, the senate wanted, that con­

suls rather than military tribunes should be chosen; but

as they could not, by reason of the opposition of the tri­

bunes, pass an act for that purpose, from consuls the

administration returned to an inter-regnum, and even

that cost no small contest, as the tribunes were indefa­

tigable in their endeavours to prevent a meeting of the

senate.

The best part of next year was spent in disputes be­

tween the new tribunes and the gentlemen who acted

successively in the capacity of inter-rex; the tribunes

sometimes preventing a meeting of the senate, for elect­

ing an inter-rex, and when one had been cho«en, raising

a dust to prevent an act of senate from being passed, for

holding the consular romitia; till at length, L. Papirius

Mugilianus, then inter-rex, commenting vt.ry sharply on

the conduct of both Patricians and tribunes, told them,

That the republic, abandoned as it was, and neglected

by men, was yet under the peculiar care and protec­

tion of the gods, who had provided for its satety in the

truce wiih the Vejentes, and the inaction of the jEqui.

But should the motions of any of these "nations raise an

alaVm, it was evident, that they were determined to

suffer the state to be ruined, without a Patrician magi­

