CHAP. 27. ROMAN HISTORY.

CHAP. XXVII.

^

•< . •"

Disputes about the debts betvxen the Senate and People.

jT\.FrERthe defeat of the Arunci, the Romans who

bad been victorious in so many battles, in so short a

time, now fully expected, thai the promises made them

by the consul and senate, would have been put in execu­

tion. But Appius, from the native haughtiness of his

temper, and with a view to make void the promise his

colleague had made the people, adjudged the causes of

the debtors, with all the rigour the law would admit. In

consequence of which, they, who before had been prison­

ers, were delivered up to (heir creditors again, and others

were also added to the list.

When diligence was to be executed against a soldier,

he immediately applied to the other consul. To Servi-

lius the multitude crowded for relief. They reminded

him <-f his promises, enumerating their respective ser­

vices, and exposing the wounds they had received. They

pressed him to lay their case before the senate, that as

their consul, he might protect his citizens, and as their

general, his soldiers.

These arguments had sufficient weight with 'the con­

sul, but circumstances obliged him to temporize: for he

had not only his colleague to combat with, but the whole

body of the Patricians were unanimous against him. In

endeavouring to please both parties, he had the good-will

of neither. - The senators considered him as a soft easy

consul, that flattered the multitude, and the people pro­

nounced him a cheat, and it soon appeared that he was

bated as much as Appius.

A dispute arose about the dedication of the temple of

Mercury, an honour, which each of the consuls claimed

as his right. The senate referred the cognizance of that

affair to the people, aml enacted, that whoever should be

promoted to that honour, should preside in the court of

victuallers, establish a board of trade, and act as high

priest, within the verge of the temple.

The people gave that honourable commission to M.

Loetonus, the first centurion of a legion; but it was abuu­

