CHAP. 57. ROMAN HISTORY, . 285

"his conduct, when leave should be granted him of

"making a legal defence: and in the present case he

"only wanted permission, as a citizen of Rome, to make

"his defence, and to have the judgment of the Roman

"people: For he was not so much afraid of all that

malice could lay to his charge, as to despair of the

equity and clemency of his fellow citizens. If he was

led to jail, without the privilege of making his defence,

he would again appeal to the tribunes, and would

'advise them not to follow the example of those they

'hated. That if the tribunes confessed they had con­

certed among themselves to abolish the right of appeal,

from them he would appeal to the people, and implore

the protection of the laws just made, by joint consent

of consuls and tribunes, to confirm that privilege.

What citizen of any rank can find his account in these

laws, if Appius Claudius cannot? Your conduct with

regard to me, will really evince, whether the right of

"appeal be only an empty name, or whether oppression

"will find relief in them, against the cabals and injustice

"of magistrates.

CHAP. LYH.

Appius imprisoned. War with the jEqui and Vbtscil''

War with the Sabines.

V IRGINIUS in return said, "That Appius Claudius,

"of all mankind, had nothing to do with laws, or any

social compact, nor ought he to derive any benefit

from them. Only look at yonder tribunal, where this

perpetual decemvir, the declared. enemy of the lives,

fortunes, and liberties of the citizens, threatening all

with rods and axes; regardless of gods and men, and

always surrounded with hangmen, instead oflictors;

"passing from rapines and murders to brutal lust, de­

livered up to his infamous pander, in the presence of

the Roman people, a maid of free condition, tearing

her from the arms of her father, like a slave who had

become the perquisite of the conqueror: where, by a

'cruel sentence, founded on the most flagrant injustice,

armed the hand of the unhappy father against the life

