440 TITUS UVIUS' Boon V.

made of it, which was to be carried to Delphi, as a pre­

sent to Apollo.

No sooner was the business of the vow settled, than

the tribunes of the commons began to stir again. The

multiiude were enraged at the whole body of the nobi­

lity, but especially at Camillus. In their absence they

exclaimed prodigiously, that by their sequestrations and

their consecrations, they had reduced the spoils of Veit

to nothing. In their presence, they bs-haved with more

delicacy, as they never seemed to avoid, but rather throw

themselves in their way, when they were disposed to be

in a passion. Finding the matter was not like to be de­

termined for this year, they chose again to the Plebeian

trihune-ihip, the same men who had preferred the bill;

and the senators used all their influence to do the same

by those who had opposed it; so that there was little

change in the college.

CHAP. XXVt •'

Camilku marches against the Falisci. Drives them into

their city, which he besieges,

Jt3Y an extraordinary exertion of their interest, the fa­

thers prevailed in the Comitia for electing military tri­

bunes, to have Caraillus chosen to he one of them. They

pretended, that they wanted an able general for the

war, but their real aim was, to provide themselves in a

champion fit to enter the lists with the tribunes of the

commons, who were violently bent on the partition of

the lauds of Veii contended for.

With Camillus, were chosen for military tribunes, L.

Furius Medullinus, a sixth, C. /F.milius, L. Valerius Pop-

licola, Sp. Posthuiuius, and P. Cornelius, a second time.

In the beginning of the year, the tribunes of the people

made no stir, till M. Furius Camillus, who was charged

with the war against the Falisci, should take the -field,

and even then they made but little progress, owing to

their delays: whilst Camillus, their roost formidable ad­

versary, acquired new glory by his conduct in the war

with the Falisci.

The enemy for some time kept themselves shu' up in

Falisci, till the devastations made by <he Romans, in the

