IP2 TITUS LIVIUS' BooK.Il.

•' consul was hot wanting to the senate, but the senate

"to the consul. That they were going to. accept laws

"more pernicious than those of the Mons Sacer." He

was prevailed upon at last, by the unanimous authority

of the senate, to he silent, and the law accordingly passed

without contradiction.

CHAP. LVIII.

Claudius being chosen Consul, sent against the Volsci.

1 HEN, for the first time, were the tribunes chosen in-

the Comitia by tribes. According to Piso, three addi­

tional tribunes were added to the college, their number

hitherto, having been only two. He also mentions their

names, viz. C. Sicinius^ L. Numitorius, M. Duilius, Sp.

Icilius, and L. Maecilius

Encouraged by these disturbances at Rome, the Volsci

and /*Et)ui, once more renewed the war. They had laid

vaste the country, expecting, that in case of a secession,

the people would fly to them for refuge; but fmding

every thing was settled, they decamped, and led back

their army.

Ap. Claudius was sent against the Volsci, and Quinc-

tius against the JEqui. Appius discovered the same

wildness in his temper abroad, as he had done at home;

and he acted with the greater liberty, as he was under

no restraint from the tribunes. He hated the people still

more than his father had done.—They had triumphed

over him. They had got a law passed during his con-

suiaie, which, his predecessors in office, from whom the

senaie had not such high expectations, had the address

to get suspended, although he had been elected for the

sole purpose of opposing it. This secret vexation that

engrossed and preyed upon him, set him upon torment­

ing his army by the greatest severity of discipline: but

he was not able to break their obstinacy, so much was

their aversion steeled against him. In all things, they

acted with slowness, indolence, carelessness, and a spirit

of contradiction. They were neither affected with shame

nor fear. If they were ordered to march with expedi­

tion, they moved slower on purpose. If he stood by to

