896 ." TITUS LIVICS' BOOK III,

.CHAP. LXIV.

Aoo elections. Candour of Duilius.

J. HIS victory of the people, and their tribunes, had

almost been productive or very serious consequences,

owing to a combination amongst the latter, to get them­

selves re-elected for the ensuing year, and to keep their

ambition in countenance, to continue the same consuls in

office for another year. In support of this scheme, they

pretended, that the senate had engaged in a plot, out of

pique to the consuls, to destroy the rights of the people.

"For what would be the consequence, should the con-

"suls, before the laws were firmly established, by their

"factions, make an aitempt on the new tribunes! For,

"they were not always to have consuls of the same dis-

"position with Valerius and Horatius, who preferred

"the liberty of the people to their own emolument."

It happened fortunately to fall to Duilius' lot, to pre­

side at that election. He was a man of sense, who, fore­

seeing the mischievous consequences that the proposed

continuation would produce, declared openly that he

would make no account of votes in favour of any of his

colleagues. He was warmly opposed, his colleagues

contending, that he ought either to leave the assembly

free, or give up his presidentship to one of the college,

who would make the law, and not the pleasure of the

senators his rule. He begged of the consuls, to favour

him with their presence at his tribunal; and asked them,

what they intended to do at the next Comitia for elect­

ing consuls? Their answer was, that they would create

new ones. The president, fmding that these magistrates,

popular in other respects, but no friends to this scheme,

advanced with them into the assembly, and introducing

them to the people, then begged they would declare,

what they would do, if the Roman people, from a prin­

ciple of gratitude, for the generous part they had acted

in recovering the public liberty, and mindful of their

other services, both at home and abroad, should re-elect

- them to the consulship. They expressed the same in­  
tention as before. Duilius then praised them highly for

