186 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK II.

tins, was sent from Rome against the Volsci, at the head

of an army; because, as 1 imagine, they did not choose

it should become a precedent for the allies to carry on

war, upon their own footing only, without a Roman

general at their head, and an army to support them.

The Volsci were harassed with all the calamities of war,

.and loaded with the most bitter reproaches; but neither

could induce them to risk an engagement.

CHAP. LlV.

A new check to the Tribunitian power.

.L.j. Furius and C. Manlius succeeded to the consulate.

The Vejentes fell to Manlius as his province; but the

war did not continue. At their request a truce for forty

years was granted them, on condition of paying a yearly

tribute, and a certain quantity of corn.

Peace abroad only served to revive their contests at

home. Spirited up by the tribunes, the people raged

about the^. Agrarian law. The consuls, neither intimi足

dated by the fate of Menenius, nor the danger of Ser-

vilius, were equally keen in the opposition. As they

were retiring from office, they were even impeached by

Genucius the tribune.

In the consulate, they were succeeded by L. jEmilius,

and Opiter Virginius, though some authors mention

Vopiscus Julius instead of Virginius. But however that

be, it is certain that Furius and Manlius were impeached

that year, and went about in a miserable plight supplicat足

ing the people; nor them only, for they were equally

assiduous and importunate with the younger senators,

advising them by all means, " From thenceforth to re足

nounce the honours and government of the state; and

look upon the fasces of the consuls, the praetexta, and

curule chair, as neither less nor more than the pomp

of their funerals; and that they were only adorned -

with these ensigns of dignity, to be destined as victims

for the altar. That supposing the consulship had

charms to attract their attention, they ought to reflect,

that it was now no .more than a name, the power of

the tribunes having swallowed up and enervated its

t足

