34 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK I.

"Jupiter, the best and the greatest, orders you from this

"moment, to stop, rally, and renew the engagement."

The Romans obey, as if the order had come from hea­

ven. Romulus himself, flies to the foremost ranks.

Mettius Curtius had come galloping down from the cita­

del, driving the Romans before him, all along the forum;

and when he was within a little of the gate of the Pala-

tium, he bawled, "We have beat our perfidious hosts,

"—our cowardly enemies;—now they are convinced to

"their cost, that to fight with men, and run away with

"girls, are very different things."

Whilst he was vaunting in this insulting manner, Ro­

mulus charged. him at the head of a party of gallant

young fellows; and, as it happened, that Metiius fought

on horseback, it was the more easy to drive him from

his post. He is put to flight in his turn, and pursued.

Another' battalion of the Roman army, spirited up by the

gallantry of their prince, routs the Sabines. Mettius

was thrown into a swamp from his horse, rendered un­

manageable from the noise of those who pursued, a cir­

cumstance, seemg their champion in danger, that alarm­

ed the Sabines prodigiously. Animated by the cries

and signs made to him by bis party, he, however, escap­

ed.—The battle was renewed on both sides, in the centre

of a valley, between two hills; but fortune declared for

the Romans.

B

CHAP. XII!.

The Sabine women interpose, and obtain a coalition.

>Y this time the Sabine women, en whose account

hostilities had commenced, with dishevelled hair and rent

garments, their melancholy circumstances having ren-"

dered them superior to the fear common to their sex,

threw themselves between the two armies among showers

'of darts, with a view to stop the effusion of blood, and

suspend the fury of the combatants; beseeching their fa­

thers, on the one side, and their husbands, on the other;

"That they would not impiously, being fathers and

"sons-in-hiw, embrue their hands in the blood the one

