CHAP. 40. ROMAN HISTORY. 16*

"ment, far from depressing, had only exalted his cou-

"rage." The same gentlemen were sent back to him;

but they were not admitted to his camp. We find also;

that the priest?, dressed in their robes of ceremony, went

to wait upon him at the camp, humbly suing for peace;

but they succeeded no better than the deputies had

done. . - •

CHAP. XL.

Rome relieved by the intercession of Vituria,.

I HEN the ladie?, in vast crowds, waited on Veturia,-

Coriolanus's mother, and Volumnia his wife; whether

by adviee of the senate, or instigated by their own fears,

is not said: But they certainly prevailed with Veturia,

a very old lady, and Volumnia, carrying her two sons,

by Marcius, with her, to walk to the enemy's camp, and

try if the tears and prayers of the women would defend

the city, since the men were no longer able to do it by

arms. When they had reached "the camp, and word

carried lo Coriolanus, that a great train of ladies had

come to wait upon him: as neither the majesty of a pub­

lic deputation, nor the respect due to religion and the

priesthood haJ been capable of moving him, he thought

be would be proof against the tears of a troop of women.

But when he was told by one of his acquaintances, who

had distinguished Veturia among the rest, by her dis­

consolate look, standing between her daughter-in-law

and her grand-children, " If my eyes do not deceive me,

"your mother, wife and children are here." Coriolanus

threw himself from his tribunal, almost out of his senses,

and run full of anguish to embrace his mother: "Stay,"

says she, assuming an air and tone of resentment, instead

of intreaties, " let me know before I receive your em­

braces, whether I speak to a son or an enemy; and

whether I am considered as your mother or your cap­

tive? Was it for this purpose that my miserable old

age was reserved? Have I lived so long, ouly first to

see you banished, and then the enemy of your coun­

try? Have you been capable of ravaging the land

"that gave you birth, and brought you up irfits bosonr?

