18 TITUS LIVIUS' Boon I.

themselves, within five miles of the "city- This intrench-

tuent was called the Cluilian ditch, from the name of the

general, for some ages, till the ditch and name together

fell the victims of time.

In this camp, the Albans lost their leader Cluilius;

and for his successor in the command, chose Mettus

FutTetiu?. In the mean time, Tullus, naturally brave,

and animated still more by the death of Cluilius, gave

out, that the great God of heaven, having already be­

gun at the head, would not stop there, but take ven-

ptanco on the whole Alban nation, as the authors of this

unjust war. Wherefore, passing the enemy's camp in

the night, he marches into the territory of Alba, with

a hostile army. This motion drew Mettus out of his

camp, who, having led his army as near the enemy's

lines as possible, dispatched a herald with his compli­

ments to Tullus, and orders to tell him, that previous to

any engagement, it would be for their mutual interest

to have an interview. .

Tullus did not decline the meeting; but suspecting it

was only calculated to amuse him, draws out his army

into the field, as did the Atbans also. Whilst both ar­

mies stood drawn up in order of battle, the generals,

escorted by a few of their principal officers, advance to

meet in the centre between the armies, where the Alban

delivers himself thus: " I think I have heard Cluilius

"alledge, as the grounds of this war, the damages re-

"ceived from Rome, and the refusal of satisfaction, in

"terms of the treaty: and, I doubt not, O Tullus,

"but on your side, the same plea will be urged: but, if

"instead of amusing ourselves with appearances, we

"state facts as they really are, it will not be denied that

'« ambition and a thirst of empire, excite to arms two

"nations united both by blood and neighbourhood;

".whether justly or not, I shall not determine; that con-

"sideration belongs to the author of the war, the ma-

"nagement of which, the Albans have committed to

"me as their general. Of one thing, O Tullus, 1 beg

"leave to remind you, that we are both, but you parti-

"cularly, hemmed in by the powerful states of Etruria,

"and as you lie nearer them than we, you must be the

*' more sensible of the propriety of this observation. By

