CHAP, ISi ROMAN HISTORY. • 229

<t cing their zeal and attachment to so powerful a neigh-

'" bouring city." They cheerfully consented to send

'them assistance, and their youth were immediately mus­

tered nnd armed.

They reached Rome early next morning, and at a dis­

tance were taken tor the jfequi and Volsci, coming a-

- gainst them. When they were convinced of their mis­  
take, they received them mto the city, where the}Tmarch-

ed in a body to the (arum and joined Valerius, already

drawing up his troops, having left the guard of the gates

to his colleague. • •

The character of Valerius had great weight with the

people, when he assured them, " That whenever the oa-

"pitol should be recovered, and the tranquillity of the

"city restored, if they would permit him then to in-

"form them of the artful, self-interested views, con-

"cealed under-the specious law-in question, he would

"neither be forgetful of his ancestors, nor his sirname,

"entailed upon him by his progenitors, as an hereditary

~" obligation to support the interest of the people, and

"for his own part, would give no .interruption to their

•' assemblies." Accordingly they followed him, in spite

of all the tribunes could urge, and gained the declivity

of the Capitoline-hill, in conjunction with the Tusculan

auxiliaries.

Here a noble emulation of being foremost in the

charge, animated the Romans and allies. They were

encouraged by their leaders on both sides. The enemy

then began to be afraid, having no other resource, hut

in the strength of the place. The epnfederates took ad­

vantage of their disorder, and 'charged them briskly, and

had already broke mto the -porch of the temple, when

P. Valerius, who fought at the head of his troops, was

killed. P. Volumnius, a con'sul.ar gentleman, saw him

fall, and ordering his men to cover his body, fiewto take-

bis place. The ardour and fury with which they fought,

kept them insensible of the melancholy eveut: so that

they had gained the victory before they perceived that

they had fought without a general. The temple was

polluted with the blood of many of the exiles, many

were takjen alive; but Herdonius himself was among the

slain. Thus then was the capitol recovered. The pri-

•. -'

