470 TITUS LIVIUS' , BooicV.

his commission from the army. Having then got the

senate's decree, ordaining, ' That Camillas should, by

'an act of the comitia assembled by curia, be recalled

'from banishment; and by authority of the people be

'immediately appointed dictator, at the same time, that

c the arrny should have the general they desired.' Re­

turning the same way, he posted to Veii with the news;

whence the commissioners were sent Camillas at Ardea,

who conducted him to Veii: or rather an act repealing

his banishment, was passed in the comitia assembled by

curia-, and he declared dictator in his absence; for it »

more likely that he did not move from Ardea, till he

had certain advices of the act passed by the senate; be­

cause he qould not change the place of bis retreat, with­

out the voices of the people, nor take the auspices regu­

larly in the army, in order to their entering upon action,

till he was appointed dictator.

CHAP. XLVII.

An attempt of the Gattls frustrated by the gallantry of

Manlius.

D.

rURING these transactions at Veii, the citadel and

capitol of Rome were in extreme danger. The Gauls,

whether they had observed the impressions of a man's

feet, in that place where the messenger from Veii bad

climbed the rock, or of themselves had discovered that

it wa& accessibte by the rock Carmemalis, it is certain,

that one night, when it was pretty clear, ihey first sent*

man before to examine the way, without his arms, which

they afterwards handed up to him; and where it was

steep, they supported, lifted and lent each other a band,

as the difficuty of the place required, till they had reach­

ed the top. This they did with so much silence, that

neither the centinels, nor even the dogs, animals that

are apt to stir at the least noise in the night-time, were

in the least alarmed. But they did not escape unnoticed

by the geese, which being sacred to Juno, the Romans,

in all their scarcity of provisions, had preserved alive.

This saved the capitol. For by their gagling and beat­

ing their wmgs, they raised M. Manlius, a great soldier,

who had been consul three years before; he snatching

