166 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK It.

Both the promoter and the opposer of the Agrarian

law, had each his party among the people, to whom

both consuls were emulous, who should be most oblig­

ing. Virginius declared he should have no objection to

the division proposed, were it confined to Roman citizens

only. Cassius's credit sunk greatly with the people, for

the kindnrss he showed in getting the allies included in

the Agrarian law; wherefore, to recover their good

graces by another act of generosity, he ordered the peo­

ple to be reimbursed in the money they had paid for the

corn imported from Sicily; but the people rejected it

with indignation, considering it in no other light, than as

bounty-money to enlist them to serve under the ensigns

of tyranny. Nay, such was their aversion at monarchy,

that they spurned at his presents, as if ihey had swimmed

in plenty.

It is certain, that the moment he was out of office, he

was condemned and suffered accordingly. Some make

his father'the author of his punishment, who having tried

him at home, scourged and put him to death"; consecrat­

ing, at the same time, all his effects to Ceres, and apply­

ing the proceeds to the erection of a statue to that god­

dess, with this inscription, " PRESENTED BY THE CASSIAN

"FAMILY."

I find in some authors, what seerns most probable, that

a day was assigned him, by Kaeso Fabius and Lucius

Valerius the qusestors,* to answer to an impeachment

for treason, when he was condemned by a sentence of

the people, and his house demolished by public autho-

rity. It stood where we have now the area before the

temple of Tellus. By whomsoever he was sentenced,

whether by his father, or the people, it is universally

admitted, that he suffered in the consulship of Ser. Cor­

nelius, and Q. Fabius.

* The business of these magistrates was to take care of the  
finances and the public treasure, for which they were answerable,

at the expiry of their office, which save them a right to appear

as prosecutors, against sr.ch as attempted to misapply the public

•property.

