CH'AP. 41. ROMAN HISTORY. . 75

inmost rooms of the palace, they were called and accord­

ingly went before the king. Upon theirfirst appearance,

they bawled out both at the same time, the one striving

to interrupt the other; but, when checked by the Lie-

tor, and ordered to speak each in his turn, they gave

over their railing. One of them then, as had been con­

certed, began to tell his story; to which, while the king

was all attention, the other lifting up his hatchet, threw

it against his head, and leaving the weapon in the wound,

both ran instantly out of doors.

CHAP. XLI.

Tarquin succeeded by SermusTttltius.

W..

I1ILST some of the company hastened to assist the

wounded king, the lictors pursued the rufftans, and seiz­

ed them. By this time there was a great uoise, and con­

course of people about the palace, wondering what could

be the matter. During the confusion, Tanaquil orders

the palace gates to be shut, and having cleared it of the

crowd, she carefully gets every thing ready for the cure

of the wound, as if there had been hopes of her husband's

recovery: at the same time, should no hopes remain, she

plans other expedients for her security. Servius being

called, in all haste, she carries him to her expiring hus­

band, and taking his right hand in tier's, she conjures

him, that he would not suffer his father-in-law's death to

pass unrevenged, nor his mother-in-law to be exposed to

the insults of her enemies. If you are a man, Servius,

continued she, the crown is thine, not theirs, who, by

the hands of assassins, have committed the most exe­

crable villainy. Take Courage then, and follow the

gods thy conductors, who foretold thy future glory by

,the divine fire which shone around thy head: let that

celestial flame now warm thee. Rouse thyself now in

earnest. We who were strangers have reigned here.

Consider, who, not of whom, thou art. If your own

counsels are at a stand, by reason of this unexpected

blow, follow mine."

When the noise and pressure of the mob became in­

tolerable, Tanaquil addresses the people from a window

