CHAP. 25: ROMAN HISTORY. 315

Next day the law was accepted by the unanimous

consent of the people. 'To convince you, Romans, that

'I am in earnest, when I express so great a dislike to

'magistracies of long continuance,'! this instant resign

'my own.' Having thus divested himself of his own

office,. and so put an end to one, and limited another, he

was conducted buck to his house by the multitude, with

loud acclamations of joy. Mamercus's conduct, in

abridging the duration of a Roman office, was highly re­

sented by the censors, who degraded him from his tribe,

and saddled him with a tribute eight times his usual pro­

portion. It is said of /Emilius, that he bore all this with

a remarkable degree of fortitude, disregarding the indig­

nity, out of respect to the cause: and though the senators

had no great relish for the new law, they were far from

being pleased with this instance of despotism in the cen­

sors, from a very natural reflection, that though they

might themselves be possessed of the same power, they

might be oftener, and much longer subject to it. How­

ever, it is certain, that such was the indignation of the

people, that butJ'or the interposition of Mamercus him­

self, the censors would have been torn to pieces.

CHAP. XXV.

Complaints of the Tribunes, that they were neglected by the

people. A pestilence rages.

X HE tribunes of the people, by the constant ha­

rangue*, in opposition to the election of consuls, at last

carried, that military tribunes, with consular power,

should be chosen for the ensuing year, after matters

were almost brought to an inter-regnum. Nevertheless,

they obtained none of the reward they expected, for not

a single Plebeian was elected. They were all Patri-

cions, namely, M. Fabius Vibulanus, M. Fossus, L. Ser-

gius Ftdenas. A pestilence which raged this year, gate

ihem a respite from oiher troubles. A temple was vowed

to Apollo for the health of the people. The duumvirs

tried many expedients presc-ibed in their books, for ap­

peasing the anger of the gods, and'rescuing .the people

from the plague. But, after all, the distemper made

