CHAP. 50. ROMAN HISTORY. flfri

"It was their business to take care of themselves and

• ' children."

These complaints of Virginias were followed by the

acclamations of the whole multitude; who assured him

they would neither be wanting to avenge his grief, nor

to assort their own liberty. The citizens, too, mingling

in the crowd with the soldiers, confirmed what they had

heard from Virginius; representing at the same time,

that to be spectators of a scene so distressing was much

more affecting than the minutest relation. At the same

time they told them, that the interest of the decemvirs

was entirely suivk at Rome; and that those who bad

come after them, brought accounts that Appius, having

narrowly escaped with his life, had absconded. Such

an impression had these accounts on the soldiers, that to

arms was the universal "cry; the standards were pulled

tip, and thre troops took the route of Rome. The decem­

virs, terrified with what they saw, and the accounts they

had heard of what passed in the city, run to all sides of

the camp to appease the tumults. If they spoke mildly,

they were answered with silence; if they spoke with au­

thority, the soldiers told them, '" that they were men*

"and had their arms in their hands." They marched

to Rome in a body, and posted themselves upon mount

Aventine, m their way exhorting all they met, to re­

cover their liberty, and to create tribunes; but they used

neither violence nor menaces.

Sp. Oppius assembled the senate. All violent mea­

sures were exploded. The decemvirs themselves were

the cause of the sedition. Sp. Tarpeius^ Caius .lulius,

P. Sulpicius, three donstilar gentlemen, were deputed to

the soldiers, to demand, in name of the senate, by whose

orders they had abandoned the camp, or what they pro­

posed to themselves, by seizing the Aventine in arms?

What they intended by turning their backs upon the ene­

my, and their arms against their country? Their answer

was ready, but they wanted one qualified to deliver it.

Having yet appointed no chief, nobody ventured to take

it upon himself, nor to expose himself to the danger with

which it might be attended. Only there was a general

cry, to send Valerius and Horatius to them; and to them

they would give their answer.

