468 TITUS LIVIUS' 'BO^K V.

escaped into the country of Antium, where they were set

upon by the inhabitants and cut to pieces.

The Tuscans were served in the same manntr, in the

territory of Veii. This people far from commiserating

the misfortune of a city, settled almost four hundred yean

in their Neighbourhood, oppressed by a strange and BB-

heard-of enemy, m;uli; incursions at that very time upon

the Roman territories, and loaded with booty, had laid a

plan for attacking Veii, the only asylum, and last resource

of the Roman name. The Roman soldiers had observed

how they were ranging through the country, and driv­

ing the booty before their main body, at the same time

that they had their camp not far from Veii. At first, the

melancholy state of their own affairs threw a damp on

their spirits: but it soon gave way to indignation, which

immediately kindled in their minds the highest resent­

ment. 'What!' said they, 'do the Etrurians too, from

• whom we turned the arms of the Gauls upon ourselves,

• insult us in our adversity?' Nothing could have given

them greater pleasure than to have attacked them that

moment; but by the advice of Coedicius, a centurion,

whom they had chosen for their leader, they suspended

the business till night. The name and authority of Camil­

las were all that were wanting on this occasion; all the

rest was conducted with great propriety and good success.

The prisoners, who had survived that night's slaughter,

conducted them to another body of Etrurians, encamped

at the salt-pits, of whom, before they dreamed of their

danger, they made a still greater slaughter the next night.

With this double victory they returned exulting and

triumphant to Veii.

CHAP. XLVI.

Resolution of a yo'ing Roman. Camillus recalled, and

created Dictator, heads the army at Veii.

N the mean time, the siege of Rome went on but slowly,

both sides remaining inactive. Whilst the Gauls were

solely intent upon preventing any one of the enemy to

quit the ptace by passing their guards, a young Roman

all of a sudden drew on himself the admiration, as well

of the enemy as of his fellow-citizens, There wa' »

