40 TITUS LJVIUS' BOOK I.

individual; for nobody among a people, so lately em?.

bodied, was conspicuous enough to have pretensions; the

contest was among the orders. The Sabines contended

that it was their turn to furnish a king, as on their part

none had succeeded toTatius as joint sovereign with Ro­

mulus; and thereby, their constitutional right was in

danger of prescription.

The old Romans could not think of swearing allegiance

to a foreigner. But however much they differed in these

•particulars, they were all agreed in one essential, that

they must have a king; for they had not yet tasted the

sweets of liberty. The fathers too were under no small

concern, lest, whilst the city had no governor, and the

army no head, they should be attacked by some foreign

power, especially as their neighbours bore them no good

will. Therefore they were determined to have some

head, though in the choice neither party would yield to

the other. For this reason, the hundred fathers came to

a resolution of sharing the sovereign power among them­

selves. For this purpose, they divided their number in­

to ten decuries, one being chosen in every decury, who

should have the supreme direction of affairs^ and though

ten governed, only one of them was attended by the lie-

tors and ensigns of government. Their power continued

for five days, and regularly passed through the whole for

the space of a year, that they had no king.

This interval of regal government from its own nature,

was called an interregnum, a name it still retains. After

this, the people began to complain, that their slavery was

increased in proportion to the number of their masters,

having now an hundred instead of one; and seemed de­

termined, for the future, to obey but one king, and him

too of their own choosing. When the fathers saw how

matters were like to turn, thought it most prudent to

make a voluntary resignation of what they must soon

lose, and paid a compliment to the people, by yielding to

them the supreme power, with this special provision, that

they should j'ot, by the concession, give up their own

privileges. \ For they enacted, that the people should

nave the nomination, but that should only be valid, when

ratified by the fathers^ Upop this law, though it is now

