*06i TITUS UVIUS' BOOK IV.

those who have got an extraordinary emolument, are

taxed with an adequate service? There will be no great

exertions without a view of returns, nor much profit

wiiliout a great deal of pains. Pain and pleasure,

'however contrary in their nature, seem to have an in-

timate connection with each other. The soldier, in

.former times, grudged excessively to serve the public

at'his own charge, whilst, with pleasure, he employed

a part of the year in cultivating his farm, to get a sub­

sistence for his family at home, and for himself when

he took the field. He is now happy in the reflection,

that the public must support him, and receives his pay

with pleasure. As he is at no great expence, he can

bear with patience to be kept a little longer from his

family, and family affairs. Besides, were the republic

to reckon with him, it might justly be urged, you

are paid for a year's service, why would you scruple

to serve out your year? Do you think it would be

reasonable to exact full pay, for half service? It is

with reluctance, gentlemen, that I touch upon these

things. These are arguments proper only to be used

• with mercenary troops. With you, we would wish

'to act as with fellow citizens, and think it but reason-

'able you act with us, as with your native country.

'Either we should not have undertaken this war, or we

'should certainly support it in a manner worthy the

'Roman people, and bring it to a conclusion, as quick-

'ly as possible. This we can accomplish, if we press

'the besieged with vigour, and not quit the siege, till we

'have crowned our hopes, by making ourselves masters

'of the city. If we had no other motive for our perse-

'verance, by Hercules, the shame of raising the block-

1 ade, ought to be more than sufficient. For the sake

• of one woman, a city, in former times, was besieged

• for the space of ten years, by the united power of

• Greece; and pray, how far were they from home?

• What countries, what seas intervened? Shall we then

'scruple to carry on a siege for twelve mouths, within

'twenty miles; nay, almost within sight of Rome? It

• cannot be alledged, that the cause of the war is a triC-

• ling affair, or that we had not a sufficient provocation

'to persist in the prosecution of it. Seven times have

»hey rejievred hostilities. • In time of peace they never

