CHAP. 55. ROMAN HISTORY. m

"efficacy. That the consul, like one of the tribune's

"Serjeants, could only act by their order, and at their

"pleasure. If they entertained the least thoughts of

"throwing off those chains, of restoring the power of

"the senate, or establishing any other authority in the

"Republic than that of the people, they should set be-

"fore their eyes the banishment of C. Marcius, and the

"condemnation and death of Menenius."

The fathers, animated with speeches to this purpose,

no longer concerted measures publicly, but in secret;

making very few privy to their designs. As there it

was concluded, that right or wrong, the accused must be

secured, the most violent measures were relished most:

and it was easy to find persons ready for any undertak­

ing.

Wherefore, upon the day of the trial, the people stood

in anxious expectation in the forum, surprized that the

tribune had not appeared; but at length when their pa­

tience was wearied out with waiting, their suspicions

were raised, that, intimidated by the Patricians, he had

deserted and betrayed the public cause. Af last, they

who had remained at his door, brought word that he was

found dead in his bed.

The news having spread among the people, they dis­

persed on all sides, trembling and terrified, like an army-

after the loss of their general. • But the tribunes were

particularly affected, being instructed:by the event, that

even the laws which made their persons sacred, were not

sufficient for their protection. The senators, on this oc­

casion, took no care to moderate their joy; nay, they

were so far from shewing any remorse for the crime they

had committed, that even those who had no hand in H,

were proud to be thought the perpetrators; declaring in

every company, that nothing but an extraordinary blow

could subdue the power of the tribunes.

CHAP. LV.

The Senators exult on their victory, but meet with a check.

.IMMEDIATELY upon this victory, obtained by a

jnost pernicious precedent, the levies were appointed,

