106 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK It.

injury to the public interest. For, what would have

been the consequence^ had that commonalty, consisting

of herdsmen arid strangers, out-laws from their countries)

who under the protection of an inviolable asylum, found

liberty, or at least, impunity, besn set free from the dread

of majesty, and begun to be agitated by the storms of

tribunitian fury? What would have been the conse­

quence, "had they then begun to engage in quarrels with

the nobles, in a strange city, before the pledges of wives

and children, and an attachment to the soil, which comes

not in an instant, had associated their hearts? Distrac­

tions of this nature in a state, not brought to maturity,

would certainly have ruined it: whereas a peaceable and

ge«tle government, fostered and cherished it, and by a

proper nourishment, brought it to such strength and per­

fection, as already to produce the wholesome fruits of

liberty.

But it is to be observed, that the source of liberty is

found rather in the duration of the consular government*

which was only for a year, than in the diminution of the

power, which had been invested in the crown. The first

consuls had all the privileges and ensigns of authority,

which belonged to the kings; only it was provided, that

both consuls should not be attended with the fasces at the

same time, so as they might not appear to be armed with

double terror.

Brutus, who was not more active in recovering liber­

ty, than he was steady in maintaining it, was the first,

with permission of his colleague, who was attended by

the fasces. Of all the people, who at first were mighty

fond of their new acquired liberty, he exacted ait oath,

that they never would suffer another to sway the sceptre

in Rome, that they might not, upon any after occasion,

either affected with the prayers, or corrupted by the

largesses of Tarquin, be prevailed onto recede. Then

to add to the influence of the senate, by increasing the

* According to Pompohius, ex cansulere, to watch for the public  
good; but according to v'arro and Cicero, ex consubreto ask coun­

sel ; because, according to the original institution of consuls, they

were to do nothing without the concurrence of the senate and peo­

ple. Hence Tuily calls the office, regium mperium, regia potestas.

