TITUS LIVIUS* BOOK V.

in a city taken by the enemy : either the Gauls had no

intention to destroy the city entirely *, or by letting the

Romans see part of the city in flames, the Gaulie chiefs

meant to terrify them, and so engage them to surrender

out of regard to their houses, and not to set the whole in

flames, that the hopes of saving the remainder, ciigbt

bend the proud hearts of the enemy. The Romans ob­

serving from the citadel, how the city swarmed with ene­

mies, and following all their motions with their eyes, aj

they ran dispersed all over the streets, were every mo­

ment struck with new matter of regret, and unable to

stand the sluirk of what they saw and heard, were quite

distracted.

Wherever the shouts of the enemy, shrieks of women

and children, tin. glare of the flames, or the crash of fal­

ling-houses, denounced some new disaster, thither they

turned their eyes, their faces, and attention, as if fortune

had placed them on the top of an eminence, expressly

tb be the sad spectators of the ruin of their country;

having nothing left them now of all that belonged to.

them, but their bodies jto defend. Their case was more

deplorable than that of any other besieged, for they were.

shut up from Hie relief of their country, whilst, at the

same time, they saw every thing they could have called

their own, in the hands of the enemy.

The first day, so full of trouble, was followed by a

night no less terrible. And when this resiles* night

gave place to a new day, some new tragical scene was

every moment exhibited before them. However, over­

whelmed and oppressed as they were, with such a com­

plication of miseries, they still continued inflexible, and

although they saw the whole city in flames and levelled

with the ground, they were determined to defend to their

latest breath, the poor little hill, which they yet could

call their own, being the only spot that was reserved for

liberty. The continual view of so dreadful a scene,

which was every day repeated before their eyes, bad

inured them, in a manner, to their calamities, so that

they became insensible of their poignancy ; regarding

onl% their arms, and the swords in their right hands, as

the only hope and resource, on which, from thencefotth,

they were to depend.

* Read, Omait dilenda urbls, &c.

