108 . TITUS LlVIffS' BOOK II.

Reflections' of this kind being at first artfully whisper­

ed, and by degrees published all over the city, to sound

the inclinations of the people, Brutus summoned tjiem to

a council, whilst they were anxious under these impres­

sions .of jealousy; when first of all, he repeats to them

the oath which they had taken, "That they would suf-

"fer no kings at Rome, nor any thing else that would

"endanger their liberty. That this was a maxim of

which they were never to lose sight, nor were they to

overlook whatever in the least regarded it. That he

addressed them in these terms much against his incli­

nation, out of respect to a single gentleman, nor would

he touch on the subject, did not the love of his country

constrain him. That it was tmpossible to convince

the Roman people, that they were yet in full posses­

sion of their liberty: for as yet, not only some of the

"royal family, but even some who bore the name of

"Tarqum still resided in the city, and were even invest-

"ed with the supreme power. It is this which obstructs

"—it is this which stands in the way of their liberty."

Then turning to Collatinus, "This fear, O. L. Tarquin,

"do you voluntarily remove. We have not yet forgot,

"nay, we openly acknowledge, that you expelled the

"kings. Complete what you have so generously begun.

"Take hence the regal name. Your fellow-citizens, I

"promise you, will not only give youl up all you can

"call your own, but if you want any thing besides, will

"generously supply you. Leave us in friendship. Free

"this city from a fear that perhaps is groundless. But

"the people arc fully persuaded, that tyranny will never

"be totally extirpated, whilst any of the Tarquin family

"remains in the city."

The consul was at first so confounded at this sudden

and unexpected motion, that he could not open hia

mouth. When he was beginning to speak in his own

defence, he was surrounded by those of the first distinc­

tion in the city, ai;d with the most pressing intreaties

importuned to depart. Their influence, however, would

have gone no great length, had not Spurius Lucretius,

a man highly respected for his merit, and venerable for

his years, and who also was his father-in-law, used va­

rious methods of persuasion with him, sometimes intreat­

