CHAP. 13. ROMAN HISTORY. 421

nourable station. Some believe-that it was in coaapli-

njent to his brother Ch. Cornelius, who had been mili­

tary tribune the vear before, and had given triple pay

to the soldiers. Others ascribe it to a very seasonable

speech, in which he recommended unanimity to both or­

ders aittl na'l tne thanks of senate and people. The

tribunes elated with this victory at the election, passed

from their opposition to the tax, which had greatly clog­

ged the wheels of government. Wherefore, the mo­

ney was collected without any trouble, and remitted to

the army. . ,

CHAP. XIII.

An epidemical distemper. Introduction of the Lectistcr-

nium. Defeat of the Faliici, Capenatcs, Ifc.

LNXUR, in the country of the Volsci, was soon after

retaken, owmg to the negligence of the city guards upou

a holiday. This year was remarkable for the severity of

the winter, ami a prodigious fall of snow; insomuch thai

the roads were impassable, and the river ijuite frozen up,

It had n<i influence, however, with respect to provisions,

as a sufficient stock had been laid in before. As P. L\~

cinius had obtained his office without noise, and with

greater joy on the part of the people, than vexation on

the part of the senate, so he executed it without offence

to either: which engaged. the commons in a peculiar

manner to raise Plebetans to the military tribuneship,

next election.

Of all the Patricians who offered their service, none

was accepted but M. Veturius. The centuries in gene­

ral voted Plebetans for ihe remainmg places of military

tribunes, with consular power; namely, M. Pomponius,

C. Duilius, Volero Publilius, Cn. Genutius, and L. Ati-

lius. Whether it was owing to the intemperance of the

air, changing. suddenly from cold to heat, or to some

other came, the severe winter was succeeded by a sum*

mer gross and pestiferous to all kinds of animals. As

no prescription was effectual in removing a distemper

that seemed incurable, the senate ordered the Sibylline

books to be consulted.

T

