S76 TITUS L1VIUS' BOOK IV.

immediately sent to Lavicum, who returned with ambi­

guous answers, such as, that the people of Lavicum bad

vot yet begun to make preparations for war, but did not

seem as if they would be long at peace. The Tusculans

were charged to keep a strict eye on Lavicum, that DO

JMJW commotions might arise there.

Soon after the military tribunes with consular power,

viz. L. Sergius Fidenas, M. Papirius Mugillanus, and

C. Servilius, the son of Priscus, who had been dictator

when Fidense was taken, were chosen for the next year,

and had entered upon their office; advices came by en­

voys from Tusculum, ' That the Lavicans had taken up

'arms, joined the troops of the JEqui, ravaged the coun-

'try about Tusculum, and encamped at the Algidus.'

War was then declared against the Lavicans, and the se­

nate enacted, that two.of the military tribunes should

march against the enemy, and the third remain at Rome,

for the government of the city. This occasioned high

words among the military tribunes, each of them pre­

tending, that he was most capable of commanding the

army, and expressing his contempt of the civil govern­

ment of the city, as a mean and disagreeable office.

The senators observing, with no small wonder, a misun­

derstanding so indecent among them, Q. Servilius told

them, ' since you have no respect either for the senate,

or for the commonwealth, paternal authority shall put

an end to the dispute. My son, without casting lots,

shall take upon him the care of the city. I wish those

who are so fond of war, may discover more prudence

and unanimity in conducting it, than they seem to do

do in desiring it.'

CHAP. XLVI.

Misunderstanding and miscarriage of the Tribunes.

A Dictator chosen.

X\S it was judged improper to raise recruits indiscri­

minately from among all the people, ten tribes. were

drawn by lot; and the two tribunes having enlisted tlie

young men belonging to them, led them out to the field.

The misunderstanding which began to appear between

