476 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK V.

CHAP. LI.

Speech r-f Camillia.

t jx

X-/ISPUTES with the tribunes, gentlemen, are so

unsupportable to me, that the only consolation I had.

whilst I lived a miserable exile at Ardea, was to con­

sider myself out of the reach of these cavils: for which

express reason, I was resolved never more to set a foot

in this city bad I not been recalled by a decree of the

senate, and your suffrages. Neither is it owing to aoy

change in my opinion, that I am now returned; the

situation of your affairs obliged me to it. The ques­

tion was not to replace myself in Rome, but to rein­

state Rome itself upon the seat of its empire. And at

this instant, nothing would give me greater pleasure,

than to remain quiet, and be silent, were not this too

a struggle in behalf of ;;iy country, to abandon which,

would be shameful in any other, but in Cam ill us, cri­

minal to the last degree, while any spark of life re­

mains. For what occasion had we to recover, or wrest

this our city when besieged, out of the hands of the Bar­

barians, if after all our exertions, we ourselves should

abandon it r When the gods and tke Roman people

held, by actual possession, the capitol and citadel,

whilst all the rest of the city together fell a sacrifice to

the victorious Gauls; shall we now, when conquerors,

after all we have done to recover this-city, abandon al­

so the capitol and citadel, and our prosperity bo the.

cause of a greater desolation in Rome, than even our

adversity? If indeed these religious rites, which were

instituted and handed down to us from the foundation

of the city, were to be totally disregarded by us, yet

the protection of the gods, hath been so strongly

marked to us in the present instance, that for men to

neglect the worship of the gods, were in my opinion,

absolutely impossible. Only look back upon what has

happened to us, good or bad, for some years past, and

you will see evidently, that every thing has succeeded

with us, when submissive and dutiful to the gods, and

every thing unfortunate, jvhen we despised them.

'First of all, let us take a re view of the war with Veii,

"^ich continued for so many years, with incredible

