CHAP. 46. ROMAN .HISTORY. 469

sacrifice peculiar to the Fabian family, which could be

performed nowhere, but on the Quirinal hill. For this

purpose, C. Fabius Dorso came down from the capitol,

having his gown tucked up, and the sacred things in his

hands ; passed through the enemy's guards; and without

regard to their threats or noise, got safe to the Quirinal

hill. Having performed there all the necessary cere­

monies, he retumed the same way, with the same gravity

of air and gesture, to the capitol, in full confidence of

the protection of those gods, whose worship he had pre­

served even at the risk of his life. The Gauls were

either astonished at his surprising boldness,or moved with

a sense of religion, which they by no means neglect.

In the mean time, the army at Veii not only gained

fresh spirits, but were every day considerably reinforced,

not only by 'many Romans, who had been dispersed up

and down the country, after the defeat of Allia, and the

capture of Rome, but also by crowds of Latin volunteers,

who joined them, that they might come in for their share

of the spoil. Now, they concluded, was the time to save

their country, and deliver it out of the hands of the ene­

my: but though they were a formidable party, they had

none among them able to take the command.

The place itself reminded them of Camillus; besides

that, a great part of that very army had fought succes-

fully under the command and auspices of that great

captain. Caedicius protested, ' That he would do nothing

'to provoke either gods or men to put an end to his

* command; but not forgetful of his rank, he would  
'himself demand a general.' It was unanimously agreed

to send for Camillus from Ardea, but not before they

had consulted the senate at Rome; such was their regard

to propriety, and to the order prescribed by law, in all -

things, even at a time when the Republic was on the

brink of ruin. To pass through the enemy's guards to

the citadel, was a dangerous attempt. Pontius Com-

minius, however, a sprightly young fellow, promised to

<lo his best in the business; and laying himself on the

bark of a tree, was carried safely down the current of the

Tiber to the city. By a steep rock, on the side next

the river, which the enemy thought unnecessary to guard,

he got up with difficulty to the capitol.

He was brought before the magistrates, and delivered

