X:HAP. 45. ROMAN HISTORY. . 171

not so much from any prepossession in their favour, as

they were impressed with a notion, that the Roman state

would be brought to perdition by its intestine broils.

In a general convention of all the stales of Etruria,

the leading men were constantly bawling out; "That

"of the power of the Romans, there would be no end,

•' were they not by their seditions to turn their fury

"against one another.—That this was the only poison,

"the only blot found in states, by which the most

"powerful were exposed to ruin.—That this evil, the

"bad effects whereof had been lately suspended, partly

"by the wisdom of the senate, and partly by the peo-

"pie's patience, was at length come to such an excess,

"that Rome might be said to form two cities, of which

"eaclvhad its own laws and magistrates.—That though

"at first they showed themselves refractory in giving in

"their names to be enlisted, yet in the field they obeyed

"their officers, and whatever divisions were in the city,

"while their military discipline could be maintained,

"their animosities could be quelled; but now the re-

"bellion had passed from the city into the camp.—That

"in the last war, when drawn up in order of battle,

"and in heat of action, the Roman soldiery had volun-

"tarily resigned the victory to the vEqni, after it was

"obtained, having quitted their standards, abandoned

"their general in^time of aciion, and returned without

"his orders into the camp.—That it was an undoubted

"truth, that with proper exertions, Rome might be re-

"duced by its own forces.—That it was only necessary

"to make a declaration and show of war, and that fate

"and the gods would do all the rest." Roused by these

hopes, the Etrurians armed; and by a variety of fortune,

during the course of the war, were often defeated, and

often victorious in their turn.

CHAP. XLV.

War with the Vejentes and Etrurians.—Eagerness of the

Roman army.

1 HE Roman consuls too, dreaded nothing so much

as their own forces,—their own arms: The retrospect

