438 TITUS L1VIUS' BOOK V.

to look upon this as no favour, imagining it was only

a bait to divert their attention from more lucrative ex­

pectations. For why should the people be banished

among the Volsci, when they had in prospect Veii, a

most beautiful city, and all its domains, richer and more

extensive than even the territory of Rome? With Veii

they thought Rome would bear no comparison, either

for situation, or the grandeur of its buildings and accom­

modations, public and private.

Moreover, a motion was made, which became more

serious after Rome had been taken.by the Gauls, of re­

moving to Veii. But in this motion it was proposed,

that part of the senate and part of the people should

• settle at Veii, and that the two cities inhabited by Ro­

mans, should constitute but one commonwealth. But

this the nobility opposed so warmly that they declared

they would sooner die in sight of the Roman people,

than suffer such a bill to be tabled: ' If there, be such

dissensions in one city, what must there be in two?

Would any man in his senses prefer a conquered city,

to his own native city, that had conquered it? Or rea­

der the captive town of Veii, more considerable after

its fall, than ever it had been before it ? In fme, that

their fellow-citizens might leave them in their native

country, if they pleased, but that no compulsion should

oblige them to relinquish the place of their birth, and

their fellow citizens, m order to follow T. Sicinius, (it

was this tribune who had preferred the bill), the new

founder to Veii, and forsake our god Romulus, the soa

of a god, and the father and founder of Rome.'

CHAP. XXV. '.

Disputes about Veii. Generosity of the Roman Ladies.

W HILST the disputes on this subject rose to a scan­

dalous height, (for the fathers had brought over some of

the college of tribunes to be of their side), nothing pre­

vented the people from coming to blows, but that the

moment a shout was set up as a signal to fall on,

the principal senators first presented themselves to the

mob, desiring them to proceed, to strike, and to put them

to death, A respect to age, and to the houour and dig­

