168 . TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK II.

and Lucius Valerius, still more odious to the people, for

liis impeachment ot'Sp. Cassius, to be consuls for the en­

suing year.

During their consulate, the bickerings with the tri­

bunes did not cease; but the law was thrown aside, and

its patrons exposed to ridicule, for boasting of good offi­

ces they had no power to confer. At this time the Fa­

bian family was in high repute, owing to their noble and

steady exertions in opposition to the tribunes, in the

course of three successive consulships. Wherefore, the

consular dignity was continued in that family for some

time, where it had been so judiciously placed.

After this, the Vejentes commenced hostilities, and the

Volsci also take the field. Rome, however, was more

than a match for all her foreign enemies, had her strength

not been exhausted in domestic wranglings. Moreover,

whilst the minds of all ranks were tlrus afflicted, they

were alarmed with celestial prodigies, portending, almost

every day, some signal calamity to town and country.

And the soothsayer?, when consulted in a private, as well

as public capacity, sometimes by the entrails, at others

by the flight of birds, could give no other reason why

the gods were displeased, but that the sacrifices had not

been performed with the proper ceremonies. Their fears

had this effect, that the vestal Opia being convicted of

incontinence, was condemned, and suffered the usual pu­

nishment.

CHAP. XLIII.

Great generalship <(f Fabius.

I HEN Q. Fabius and TIaius Julius, were made con­

suls. During this year, the civil commotions were as

violent as ever, and the war with the neighbouring states

spread farther than before. For new the jEqu; were in

arrri?, and the Vejentes were ravaging the Roman terri­

tories. These wars growing still more serious, KJESO Fa­

bius and Sp. Furius are chosen consuls.

The /Equi had laid siege to Onona, a Latin city,

when the Vejentes, loaded with plunder, threatened to

lay siege to Rome itself. Such terrors should no^doubt

