CHAP. 26. ROMAN HISTORY. 347

'friends among the commons, and their countenance

'once obtained, they would not fail to promote them.'

Wherefore, it was resolved, that a law should be pro­

posed, in order to put an effectual stop to intriguing, that

for the future no person appearing as a candidate for an

office, should affect to be distinguished by the Whiteness

of his robes. At this period, a dispute so trifling would

be little regarded; but, however much it may appear

like a farce now, between the senators and the people

then, it was a very serious affair. The tribunes prevail­

ed, and the law passed. As the present animosity of the

people gave reason to suspect that they would be biassed

in favour of their own party; therefore, to put it out of.

their power to prefer them, the senate enacted, that the

comitia for electing consuls should be held this year.

CHAP. XXVI.

The Tribunes compel the Consuls to name a Dictator.

./\DVICES from the "Hernici and the Latins, that the

Volsci and ./Equi were in motion, furnished an apology

for this resolution. T. Quinctius^Cincinnatus, the son of

Lucius, sirnamed also Pennus, and C. Julius Men to,

were made consuls. This dreadful war was no longer

delayed: for, by means of a sacred law among them,

the most effectual means of raising an army, having

made up their quotas, each nation led a.formidable party

to the Algidus, the place agreed on for their general ren*-

dczvcns. There the TEqui and Volsci fortified two sepa-

^rate encampments, their generals discovering a much

greater degree of attention in disciplining the troops and

securing the lines, than ever'they had done on any for­

mer occasion. ,

These accounts increased the consternation at Rome,

so much the more. The senate were determined to

name a dictator; because, though they had to do with a'

people Who had often shewn them their backs, they

seemed at this time resolved on an extraordinary effort;

and besides, the strength of the Romans was impaired

Y>y the loss of some of their youth, that had been cut off

by the raging distemper. But, nothing gave them so'

much concern as the perverseness of the consuls, their

