306 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK 111.

These orders were not given in vain. The whole

Roman cavalry charged the enemy at the same mstant,

and put them to flight. Many of them were tumbled

from their horses, and both together transfixed by the

spears of the Romans. The enemy's cavalry were thns

entirely defeated.

They turned then upon the foot, having dispatched

an aid-de-camp with the news of their success to the

consuls, who had al&o made some impression on the wmgs

that opposed them. This intelligence redoubled their

ardour, and occasioned a great consternation among the

.SLqui, who were already giving way. The centre of the

enemy's army, which had been thrown into disorder by

the Roman horse, was the first that broke. Quiuctius

bore down the left wing, but on the right there was much

hotter work.

Then Agrippa, who was brave and full of fire, seeing

the Romans carrying all before them, excepting where

he commanded, snatched the standards from the ensigns,

and advancing with them in person, threw some of them.

into the midst of the enemy's battalions. The soldiers

through fear of losing them, which would have been a

great disgrace, fell upon the enemy like lions. Thus

was the victory rendered complete, on the side of the

Romans. By this time, Quinctius' aid-de-camp came

to inform them, that he had beat the enemy, and was

ready to fall upon the enemy's camp, the moment he

knew they had done their business in the left wing; and

if they were already masters of the field, he ordered

then/to join him immediately,-that all the army might

share alike in the spoil. Agrippa, now victorious, ad­

vanced to his colleague, and after mutual congratulations

on their mutual successes, began the attack. The few

that guarded the camp being easily managed, they broke

through the works without opposition.

The consuls marched back the army to Rome, laden

with the spoils they had taken from the enemy, exclusive

of all they had lost in the plunder of their country.,

which they now totally recovered. It does not appear

that they either demanded, or that the senate decreed

them a triumph; nor is there any reason assigned for

their neglecting, or despairing to obtain that honour.

