CHAP. 32. 'ROMAN HISTORY. 63

lence the Roman ambassadors sent to demand satisfaction,

imagining, that the Roman king would waste his time in

indolence among the chapels and altars.

The spirit of Ancus seemed to partake equally of the

genius of Numa and Romulus. He easily saw that pacific

measures, in the reign of his grandfather, when the peo­

ple, naturally fierce, had been but lately settled, was

the best policy; but how, it would be no easy matter for

him, to enjoy the peace which had distinguished his

grandfather's reign, unless he should resolve tamely to

put up with insults; that his patience had been already

tried, and his good nature despised ; for which reason, to

Rome, at present, a Tullus was more necessary than a

Numa.—However, as Numa, in. time of peace, had in­

stituted the ritual, with respect to religion, the ceremo­

nials, with respect to war, should be his care; that war

might neither be proclaimed, nor carried on, but in pro­

per form. From the ancient nation of the Equicoloe,*

he borrowed that ceremony, observed by the heratds,

even at this day, when satisfaction is demanded. The

ambassador, the moment he reaches the frontiers of that

people, upon whom he is to make the demand, his head

being covered with a woollen cap, cries out, "Give ear

"O Jupiter; hear ye confines, [naming the country ;]

"let justice hear. I am the public ambassador of the

"Uoman people; I come with a legal and just coiamis-

"sion; let credit be given to what I say." Then he

makes his demand, and takes Jupiter to witness. "If I

"with any fraudulent, or wicked intent, demand these

"persons and these effects to be restored to me, then

"may I never return to nry country again."

These words he repeats, as he enters the frontiers, to

the first'man he meets, as he enters the gates of the city,

and as he goes into the market place, with the variation

of a few words in the Form of the speech and oath. If

his demand be not satisfied, in thirty-three days after

such requisition, for so many days are allowed, he then

declares war, in words to the following effect: " Hear,

"O Jupiter; and you, O Juno, Romulus, and all ye

"gods in heaven, in earth, and hell, give ear; I take

• A highland people, inhabiting tbe hills above the Tiber.

