CHAP. 13. ROMAN HISTORY. 221

atchievernents in pitched battles, as well as detached

parties: and with the most persuasive arguments, he

exhorted the people, "To make it their choice, that a

'« youth possessed of so many excellent endowments,

•' which must render him a valuable acquisition to any

"state, whither he might retire, should rather be a

"citizen of Rome, than of any other city whatever.

"The fire and spirit, which" they found fault with would

"evaporate with an increase of years, and give him

"prudence in exchange, which was the only thing he,

"wanted; his faults declining, whilst his virtues were

"perpetually advancing to maturity, they would fmd

"their account in suffering so great a man to improve

"and grow old in his country." ^Among the rest, L.

Quinctius, sirnamed Cincinnati, pleaded also for his son,

not by extolling his merit, fpr fear he would thereby

only exasperate his enemies, but by entreating the assem­

bly to impute his errors to his youth, and for his father's

sake, to forgive them, whom none of them could accuse.

of having injured them in any instance, either by word

or deed. Some of the assembly made no return to their

submissions, either through modesty or fear, whilst

others complaining, that they and their friends had suf­

fered by his blows, by the rashness of their return.

plainly discovering what their sentence was to be.

CHAP. XJII.

€aso arrested, finds bail, and banisJies himself.

JL HERE was one charge brought against Csso, which.

hung heavier on him than all the public odium besides*

in support of which, M. Volscius Fictor, who had been

tribune of the people some years before, rose up to give

evidence. He averred, " That soon after the city was

"freed from the plague, he had fallen in with a set of

"libertine young Patricians, rioting in the Subura, and

"a quarrel ensuing, his elder brother, who had not then

"got entirely over his complaints, was knocked down

"by Cawo, and left almost expiring; being carried home

"between men's hands, he died; and, he had reason to

"think, that it was in consequence of that blow. Bui

