CHAP. to. ROMAN HISTORY. 2rT

Upon this, Lucretius had the honour paid him due to

himself and army: For, he triumphed over the Volsci

and ./Equi, his soldiers following in the procession. An

Ovation * was also granted to his colleague, who entered

the city without his army.

The next year, an attempt was made on the new con­

suls, to revive Tarentinus' bill; in promoting which, the-

whole college of tribunes warmly joined their interest.

The consuls were P. Volumniua and Ser. Sulpicius.

That year the heavens seetned to be on fire, and there

was a terrible earthquake: and what seemed incredible

the year before, that a cow had spoke, now passed cur­

rent. Among other prodigies, a dreadful shower fell

of raw flesh, which, it is said, was catched as it- fell, by

swarms of birds fluttering around it; what escaped them, *

lay scattered on the ground, without changing its smell.

The duumvirs, who presided over sacred things consult­

ed the Sybilline books. They declared, that the city was

threatened with an irruption of strange enemies, and to

prevent any attack upon the higher parts of the city,

and the slaughter that might ensue, among other things

it was strongly recommended to give sedition no coun­

tenance. The senators were accused by the tribunes of

contriving this to obstruct the passing of the law, and in

consequence, the dispute ran very high.

In the mean time, advices are brought from the Her-

nici, that the Volsci and .SSqui, for all the fatal blow they

had received, were recruiting their army, just as if the

war were every year to take the same turn. That the

Antiates, who openly held their councils at Ecetra, were

the principal support of the enemies of Rome. That

the head of the confederacy, was At)tium, which furnish­

ed troops for the war. When these things were laid be­

fore the senate, they ordered an army immediately to be

levied. The management of the war was committed to

the consuls conjunctly, the one to march against the

Volsci, and the other against the jEqui.

The tribunes, in the mean time, exclaimed loudly in

* A lesser kind of triumph, decreed to those who obtained a vic­  
tory of smalt importance, where the opposition was not formula.

J-te. In this case, the general did not enter the city in a chariot,.

nor was he crowned with taurel. . .

