CHAP. 53. ROMAN HISTORY. 387

the utmost dispatch, sent great quantities of grain down

the Tiber. While the sickness prevailed in the city, the

consuls had a demonstration of the desolate state of the

'city ; for they could not find above one senator, for every

. particular embassy, for which reason, they were obliged

to associate two knights with each of them. Excepting

the effects of the plague and the famine, for two succes­

sive years, the Romans had nothing to trouble them at

home or abroad. But, the moment they had got over

these difficulties, all the miseries which had been the

usual attendants on civil dissensions and foreign war, at­

tacked them at once.

CHAP. LIII.

Opposition of the College to Mxnius. Valerius humbles the

jEqui, but is unpopular in the army.

_L HE former consuls were succeeded by Mamercus

JEmilius, and C. Valerius Potitus, in whose consulate, the

jEqui renewed their preparations for war; and although

the Volsci did not take up arms by public authority, they

joined the /Equi as volunteers, and served for pay. Upon

* advice of the progress of these enemies, who by this time  
had entered the frontiers of the Latins and Hernici, the

consul Valerius began to make the levies for raising an

army; but M. Mocnius, one of those tribunes who had

proposed the Agrarian law, opposed him; and while the

commons were supported by this tribune, none of them

could be compelled to take the military oath.

During this contest, they were surprised with the ac­

counts that the fortress of Carventum was in the hands of

the enemy. As this disgrace exposed Mcenius to the

odium of the senators, it furnished the other tribunes a

noble pretext for opposing their colleague, being previ­

ously determined to declare against the Agrarian law.

Wherefore, after long altercations on both sides, the con­

suls called gods and men to witness, that whatever da­

mage or disgrace the enemy had or would bring upon

them, it was all chargeable upon Mfenius, who had ob- ' .

structed the levies. Maenius, on the other hand, exclaim­

ed, that if the violent possessors of the property of the

