TO THE PUBLIC. tii

appointed him praeceptor to his grandson Claudius, after­

wards emperor.*

It is recorded by the younger Pliny, that the reputa­

tion of Livy had begun already to make so much noise

in the world, -that he received an honourable visit from

the extremity of Spain, occasioned by the fame of his

great and extensive genius which had found its way thi-

ther-t

After the death of Augustus, he returned to his native

Padua, where he was received by his fellow-citizen*

with every demonstration of joy and mark of honour;

He died there in the fourth year of the empire of Tibe­

rias. Whilst he staid at Rome, and had the countenance

and protection of Augustus, he had every opportunity of

attaining whatever knowledge was necessary to his design j

to the study of which he was so much attached, that he

sequestered himself in a manner from the world and the

pursuits of ambition, so that his life became thereafter

more obscure: for, applying his whole attention to the

great work he had undertaken, he shut himself up in his

study, and consequently had very little intercourse with.

society. So vast and so great an enterprise, both in the

plan and execution, certainly required the noblest effort

of human genius; but the elevated and generous senti­

ments which so remarkably distinguish and stamp an un­

common beauty and excellency on Titus Livius' history,

are derived from the nobleness of the heart, for which

our author seems to have been illustriously conspicuous.

Any one who has read the works of Livy with atten­

tion, will be at no loss to pronounce him a man of worth

and probity. The manner in which he speaks of him­

self, is peculiarly modest: vanity is a foible to which he

seems to have been a perfect stranger. Of himself per­

sonally, he seldom or never speaks: nor in the whole

course of his history does he mention the least thing

that concerns hirn, save only that the temple of Janus

was shut in his time. Nothing can be a greater proof

of bis natural turn of mind in this particular, than the

strain of modesty which runs through the preface to his

history. No author ever promised less, or performed

* Suet, in Claud, cap. 41; t Lib. II. Ep. 3.

