CHAP. 22. ROMAN HISTORY. . 255

"declaring, that if any did, his vote would not be ad-

"mitted."

CHAP. XXII.

The Volsci dtfeated.

JL HE consuls for this year, were Q. Fabius Vibulanus

and L. Cornelius Maluginensis. This was the third time

Fabius had been raised to that dignity. There was a

census held this year, but no lustrum, owing to some

religious scruples about the pollution of the capitol, and

fall of the consul Valerius.

In the beginning of this consulship, state clouds quick­

ly gathered. The tribunes still tampered with the peo­

ple, and advices were brought from the Hernici and

Latins, that the ^Equi and Volsci were making vast pre­

parations for war. The Volscian legions had already

reached Antium; and it was strongly suspected, that the

Antiates were meditating a revolt. Besides, it was with

no small difficulty that the tribunes were prevailed on

to suffer the progress of this war to be stopped in time.

The consuls shared the provinces between them. It fell

to Fabius to march the legions to Antium, while Corne-

lius stayed to guard the city, lest, according to custom,

the /Equi should detach parties to ravage.the country.

The Hernici and Latins, were ordered to furnish their

respective quotas of troops, stipulated by treaty ; conse­

quently two-thirds of the army consisted of allies, and

one of Romans.

These confederates having come up on the day ap­

pointed, the consul encamped without the gate Capena.

from thence, after the army had been purified by sacri­

fice, he marched to Antium, and encamped in its neigh­

bourhood, not far from the enemy.

The Volsci, as the .ffiqui had not yet joined them, not

daring to risk a battle alone, thought only of remaining

quiet in their camp, and defending themselves within

their works. Next day Fabius drew up his army, not

in a body, composed promiscuously of allies and citizens,

bat into three distinct battalions of Romans, Latins, and

Hernici, each by themselves, round the enemy's lines.

