CHU-. 56. ROMAN HISTORY. 189

Tlie consuls attempted to dispel the storm; but they

soon found, that the dignity of their ofljce was but a fee­

ble support without force. Their Iictors being beat, and

their fasces broke to pieces, thcv were driven out of the

forum into the senate-house, uncertain how far Volero

would carry his victory/

When the storm had blown over, the consuls ordered

the senators to be summoned to the house, where they

made loud complaints of the bad treatment they had re­

ceived from the people, and the intolerable insolence of

Volero. After many .violent speeches, the elder senators,

prevailed, who by no means approved that the Patricians

should oppose passionate measures to the rashness of the

commons.

CHAP. LVJ.

Great disputes about the mode of electing Tribunes.

V OLERO became a mighty favourite with the people*

who, at the next election, created him tribune. L. Pi-

narius and P. Furius, were consuls that year. Everv

body imagined, that by his means the whole weight o

the iribunitian power would have fallen upon the consuls

of the preceding year; but forgetting his private resent­

ment, in order to. promote the public interest, used not a

single expression to their prejudice, and only preferred a

bill, that the plebeian magistrates should be chosen in

the Comitia by tribes.

This, though at first it did not seem to affect the se­

nate much, was a motion of no small importance, as in

that case, the. Patricians could not choose whom they

pleased for tribunes, by the votes of the client. The fa­

thers strained every nerve in the opposition of a law that

was so acceptable to the commons: but neither the autho­

rity of the consuls, nor the interest of the Patricians,

could prevail on any one of the college of tribunes to en­

ter their dissent, though that was the only valid obstruc­

tion against it. The weight, however, and importance

of the bill itself, created disputes, Which put it off for

the course of the year.

Volero was chosen tribune a second time; and the

