CHAP. 33. ROMAN HISTORY. 153

ducing the belly by famine, all the members separate-

ly, and the body in a lump, became lean and languid

to an extreme. Hence it appeared, that the. belly was

not'so idle as had been imagined, and that if it was

nourished by. the other members, it contributed no less

to their support in its turn, in communicating by the

digestion of food, to the several parts of the body, that

blood, by which their life and strength subsisted, and

in circulating it in due quantities through all the veins."

He compared this intestine sedition of the parts of the

human body to the discord that then divided the senate

and people; and the application, as it was very natural,

had a wonderful influence upon their minds.

CHAP. XXXIII.

Tribunes of the People created. The Volsci routed, and

Corioli taken.

J.T was then they entered upon terms of reconciliation;

and among other concessions, the people were allowed to

have magistrates of their own, whose persons were to be

sacred, and whose office was to protect them against the

power of the consuls. Nor could any of the Patrician

order be elected into that office. Thus were two tri­

bunes of the-people created in the persons of Cains Lici-

nius, and L. Albinus, and they chose three colleagues for

themselves. Sicinius, the ring-leader of the mutiny, is

said to have been one of them, but about the other two,

historians are not agreed. According to some authors,

only two tribunes were created on the sacred mountain,

and that the law, whereby their persons were made sa­

cred, was enacted there.

During the secession, Sp. Cassius and Posthumus Co-

rninius entered in office as consuls. In their consulship,'

a treaty was concluded with the Latin nations. One of

them remained at Rome, on purpose to ratify it, whilst

the other went to chastise the Volsci. The Volsci An-

tiates were routed and forced into Longula, which was

taken by assault. Polusca, another city belonging to the

enemy, shared the same fate. Then the Romans laid

close siege to Corioli.

Among the troops that sat down before Corioli, there

