300 TITUS L1VIUS' BOOK III.

Volsci, scarce a match ior the Hernici alone, came in

amis to tlie very gates oi Rome, auit went away again

unchastised I Our manners mdeed, and the situaiion of

our aiiiiirs, have long been in such a Irain, that I had

no reason to look for much good; but could I have

divmed, that so great an ignominy had been reserved

for this year, I would by death or banishment, if all

other means hail failed, have avoided the office which

I now fill. What! might Rome then have been taken,

had those who appeared at our gates in arms, not been.

poltroons?—Rome taken, whilst 1 was consul!—Of

honours, I had enough?—of life, enough,—Alas!—

more than enough: I should have died in my third

consulship. But who are they, Pray> whom the das­

tardly enemy have thus despised? Is it us the consul?,

or you Romans? If we are culpable, depose us, as

unworthy the office we bear; nay, punish us yet more

severely. If you are in fault, may neither gods nor

men punish your faults! Only may you repent. No,

Romans ; the enemy's confidence is not owing to the

high opinion they entertain of their own courage, nor

the low estimate they make of yours. They have been

too often vanquished?— driven out of their camp ;—

amerced in their lands;—obliged to pass under the

yoke, not to know themselves and you. Discord alone

is the ruin of this city. The dii-putes between the

senate and commons, while we set no bounds to our

domineering, nor you to your liberty; while you are

weary of Patrician, and we of Plebeian magistrates,

raise the courage of the enemy, and make them pre­

sumptuous In the name of the immortal gods, what

is it you would have ? You desired tribunes for I he sake

of peace; we granted them. You were keen to have

decemvirs; we consented to their creation. You grew*

weary of decemvirs; we obliged them to resign. Your

hatred pursued them to their private stations; and we

suffered you to put to death, or banish.Patrician* of

the first rank and distinction in the city. Then you

would have your tribunes again; you obtained them.

We saw consuls elected of your own faction, and bore

it, though to the prejudice of the Patrictans. \Ve

have also seen Patrician magistracies, become a per-

