CHAP. 31. ROMAN HISTORY. 61

mentation of the horse. It was by a vigorous charge of

the Roman horse, that the ranks of theSabines were first

broke; after which, they could neither fight nor fly,

without being exposed to a most dreadful slaughter.

J~ CHAP. XXXI. .

^r^

*^ Tullus killed by lightning.

^

./\.PTER

.PTER this defeat of theSabines, when the administra­

tion of Tullus was in high repute, and the Roman affairs

in a most flourishing state, news were brought to court,

that it rained stones on mount Alba. As the thing seemed

incredible, proper persons were sent -to examine into it

more minutely, who saw them fall thick from heaven,

like hailstones driven by the wind in balls along the

ground. Moreover, they thought they heard a voice

thundering from the grove on the summit of the hill,

enjoining the Albans, in sacred matters, to observe the

files of their country, which they had totally overlooked,

as if they had abandoned their gods with their country;

having either conformed to the religion of Rome, or,

being dissatisfied with fortune, had given themselves no

trouble about religion, as often happens in such cases.

. Upon account of this prodigy, the Romans too, either

instigated by the voice thundering from mount Alba, for

that is also alledged; or by the advice of the Aruspices,

instituted expiatory sacrifices, which lasted nine days:

Certain it is, that the same kind of solemnity is yet in

use; for, whenever the city has been alarmed with any

similar^jrodigy, nine days have always been employed

in such expiations.

Not long after, the plague raged among them; which,

though it checked their military ardour, Tullus, who

breathed nothing but war, gave them no respite from

arms: pretending, that the youth had a better chance

in action abroad, than in idleness at home; till, at length,

he was himself seized with a lingering distemper. Then

his spirits, great as they were, fell so low, and his body

so weak, that he, who hitherto had thought it a weak­

ness unbecoming a king, to mind the ceremonies and

observances of religion, all at once became a slave to the

D

