236 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK III.

At the head of the Roman infantry, he posted himself in

the centre. He then ordered them to observe the signal,

that they might keep time to a moment in making the

attack, or in retiring, if a retreat should be sounded.

The cavalry of each were posted in the rear of their re­

spective battalions. In this disposition he invested their

camp in three different places, and attacking it with

spirit on all sides, drove the Volsci, who could not stand

the charge, from their lines. Then getting immediately

over their fortifications, where fear had crowded them

together and cooped them np in a cjorner, he drove them

from their camp. • As they fled in the greatest disorder,

the cavalry, unable to cross the ditch, and upon that ac­

count, only spectators of the action, having them now in

the open plain,'came in for their share of the glory by

making dreadful havork of them, while they fled in the

utmost fright. Many were cut to pieces in the camp,

and majiy in their flight without the lines. The booty

was the more considerable, because the enemy had

enough to do, if they carried their arms with them, and y

h:id not the woods covered their flight, not a man of:

them would have escaped.

CHAP. XXIII.

The Mqui beat at Tusculum.

D'

URING these successes at Antiom, (he /Equi, bav­

ing detached the flower of their youth before them, sur­

prised the citadel of Tusculum in the night; and encamp­

ed the rest of their army in the neighbourhood, to in­

tercept the enemy's forces. This intelligence coming by

express to Rome, and transmitted thence to the camp at

Antium, affected the Romans as sensibly, as if they

had been told, that the capitol was in the hands of the

enemy. The obligations they lay under to the Tusculans,

in a similar disaster, were too gratefully remembered,

not to command assistance in return. Wherefore, FabiOs

having conveyed the booty from the camp to Antium

where he left a'small garrison, neglecting every thing

else, marched with all expedition to Tusculum, allowing

his soldiers to encumber themselves- with nothing but

