422 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK V.

The duumvirs who had the care of performing the

sacred rites, instituted the Lectisternium,* for the first

time at Home, and continued the festival for eight day-,

having spread three beds, with all the pomp and magni­

ficence the simplicity of these times would admit, to ap­

pease Apollo, Latona, and Diana, Hercules, Mercury,

and Neptune, This ceremony was also celebrated by

private families. Open house was kept throughout the

whole city, and every thing brought out to the street to

be used in common. Nay, it is said, that every one,

known or unknown, and all strangers, were entertained

with a hearty welcome. Persons at vartance, laying

aside all animosity and disputes, conversed with freedom

and affability. Prisoners were released from their chains

during the days of the festival, and religion forbade those

to be bound, when the ceremony was over, whom the

gods had set free.

In the mean time, at Veii, the army had many object)

of terror, three confederate armies being ready to fall

upon them at once. For all on a sudden, the Capenates

aniFalisci, having come to the assistance of the Vejen-

tes as before, invested the camp, so that the Romans

were obliged to front three different ways, to repel as

many different attacks.

The remembrance of Sergius and Virginius's fate,

had a peculiar influence upon their behaviour. The

troops in the grand camp, that in the former action had

been idle spectators, being instantly led round, fell upon

the rear of the Capenates^ who'had attacked the Roman

.lines. The battle being thus begun in that quarter, quite

disconcerted the Falisci; and a sally very seasonably

made from the lesser camp during this consternation,

made them fairly show their backs. The Capenates

Leing thus repulsed, the conquerors pursued them with

prodigious slaughter. Nor was it long be?ore the troops

which ravaged their country, accidentally fell io with

the scattered remains of this arm}-, and cut them all to

pieces. Many of the Vejentes, whilst they were re­

treating to the city, were slain before their gates, which

were shut against those who came last, to prevent the

Romans from entering with them.

* From Lcctos sternere, to prepare teds.

