CHAP. 8. ROMAN HISTORY. 117

CHAP. VIII.

* • r

P. Valerius proposes a law, for allowing appeals to the

people. The capital dedicated.

this, the consul made laws, which not only

cleared him of all suspicion of aiming at sovereign power,

but, oh the contrary, made him even popular. From

this consideration he got the name of Publicola. The

laws, which above all others, raised him in the esteem of

the public, were these, which made an appeal to the

people competent, from the judgment of the magistrates,

and the person and effects of him, who should form any

plot for usurping the sovereign power, execrable. These

laws he passed while the only consul, that he might have

the sole merit of them; and immediately after, he as­

sembled the comitia for electing a colleague. Spurius

Lucretius was chosen consul, who, being now very old,

and quite unfit for the duties of his office, died in a few

days after his election.

M. Horatius Pulvillus succeeded Lucretius. In some

old histories, I do not fmd Lucretius mentioned as con­

sul at all, but Horatius immediately after Brutus. The

reason, I imagine, may be owing to this, that nothing re­

markable happened, during the short time he enjoyed his

office.

The temple of Jupiter, was not yet dedicated in the

capitol; wherefore Valerius and Horatius the consul?,

cast lots, which of them should have the honour of per- -

forming that ceremony. The lot fell to Horatius, and

Publicola marched against the Vejentes. Valerius's

friends showed more uneasiness than became them, that

the honour of dedicating so famous a temple should

have fallen to Horatius. Nothing was left unattempted

to throw obstacles in the way, and after every other

scheme had proved abor.tive, they endeavoured to sur- -

prise him with a melancholy piece of news, just as he

was holding the post in the temple, and addressing his

prayer tn the god, telling him, "That his son was dead, .

"and that he could not dedicate the temple, when his

"family were in mourning.'* Whether he gave no

