CHAP. 32, ROMAN HISTORY. 357

and arms, the very same. That he too was the same

dictator, Mamercus /Emilius, who formerly rooted the

confederate armies of the Fidenates and Vejentes, at

Nomentum, even when supported by the Falisci. That

A Cornelius, his general of the horse, would exert

the. same bravery hi battle now, as in the former war,

"when only a legionary tribune, that he- slew, Lars

Tolnnrnius, king of the Vejentes, in sigftt of both armies,

and carried the opirria spolia to the temple of Jupiter

Feretrius.-\ That, therefore, they ought to remember,

that on their side, they had triumphs, spoils, and vic­

tory: that on the enemy's, there. was only the guilt of

murdering ambassadors, contrary to the law of nations;

the massacre of the colony of FidensB,-in time of pro­

found peace ; the violation of the truce, and revolts,

seven times repeated, notwithstanding their bad success.

They should, therefore, fly to their arms; and he was

very certain, so soon as the two armies were engaged,

these impious enemies would have but a short time to

rejoice over the disgrace of the Roman army. Then

would the Roman people be fully convinced, that they

who had chosen him dictator, for the third time, had

•done ihe commonwealth much more important service,

than they who had set a.mark of infamy on his second

dictatorship, because he had set bounds to the tyranny

of the censors.' Having then made proper vows to the

gods, he took the field and eucarriped fifteen hundred

paces beyond Fidisnav supported on the right by the

mountains, and on the left by the Tiber. He ordered'

Titus Quinctius Pennus, his lieutenant-ge'neral, to seize

the mountains, and gain the eminence in the enemy's

rear, where he might Iy, concealed. The itetftday, when

the Etrurians, highly elevated with their success on a

former occasion, which.they owed more to fortune than

valour, offered him battle, he waited alittlc, till his scouts

brought him intelligence, that.Quinctius had gained the

eminence, near the castle of Fidenae, and then set up his

>> standard, leading on his infantry already drawn up, by

a quick march, 'against the enemy, at the same Jirne

enjoining the general of the horse not to engage without

His permission; for that.he would give him the signal,

whenever the assistance of the horse became necessary;

