37* TITUS LIVIUS- BOOK IV.

• brother, and both disregarded! There must infallibly

-• ,have been some trick here, and Sempronius, in presid-  
'ing. at the comitia, has discovered more art than hones-

• ty. For which reason, they hail a right to con:plaio,

'that their friends had been disappointed, by his uncan-

• did procedure.' As Atratinus himself was above their

reach, both on account of his known integrity, and the

high station in which he served, they turned all their

fury against C. Sempronius, his relation; and, by the as­

sistance of .M. Canuleius, their colleague, revived the

prosecution against him, for the disgrace he had brought

upon the state, in the: war with the Volsci.

It was not long after that, till the tribunes proposed in

the senate, a division of the lands among the people; a

•motion, which C. Sempronius had always most zealously

opposed, with a view, as it turned out, to lessen his in­

terest with the Patricians, should he appear more pas­

sive, or expose himself to the resentment of the people,

at the time of his trial, should he persist in his opposition.

But, he raiher chose to be the butt of rheir malice, than

expose his character by deserting the public cause,

though at the hazard of his own; and, therefore, .con­

tinued firm in his former opinion, ' That it would be

bad policy to gratify three factious tribune's, who, in

fact, did not want to get land for the.people, but to

raise the people's resentment against him. For his own

part, he was determined to stand the storm, without

flinching; and he saw no reason, why he, or any other

citizen of Rome, should be considered by the senate,

jn such an important point of view, that in saving bim,

the state should be exposed to any hardship.' With

the same steadiness, on the day of his trial, he pleaded

his own cause: but when the senators had tried every

method to soften the people in his favour, thev were still

inexorable, and condemned him in a fine of !5,OOO asses

of brass.*

This. year too, Posthumia, a vestal virgin, was im­

peached for incontinence. She was found innocent, as to

the crime; but she had paid too much attention to dress,

3nd been too free in her behaviour for a vestal, which

* ,f+8 : 8 : 8.

