CHAP. 4. ROMAN HISTORY. 317

birth nor your families, but to your. admission into the

order of senators, an honour, to which you were either

promoted by the kings, or after their expulsion, by the

suffrages of the people. Why do not you lay your

wise heads together, to preserve ihe pretended purity

of your blood, by chnsing neither wives among us your足

selves, nor permitting your female line to marry any

man, but a Patrician? No Plebeian will force a Patri足

cian lady. That is an orbit in which a Patrician can

only move. Nobody will force you to enter into a

marriage contract, unless it be agreeable to yourselves.

But to prohibit it by law, and to make the marriage of

a Plebeian with a Patrician felony, is affronting us in

the highest degree. Why have you not passed the

same interdiction with respect to the rich and the poor?

At all times, and in every nation upon earth, it has been

left to the choice of parties, to settle upon the family,

into which a woman should be disposed of in marriage,

and upon that, out of which they should take a \vife;

but this liberty you restrain by the sanction of a law

the most insulting in the world, that you may make a

breach in .civil society, and split one community into

two. Why do not you also forbid the Plebeians to

live in the neighbourhood of the Patricians, to walk in

the same streets with them, to eat at the same table,

or to assemble with them in the forum? And what is

the difference pray, in all these things, in the mar足

riage of a Patrician with a Plebeian, or of a Plebeian

with a senator's daughter? Would the privileges of

the orders be invaded or infringed by an instance of

this kind? Not at all. For the children will always

be of the rank with the father. In short we have no

other view in moving this affair, but to be treated as

men and citizens; and the man who will set up his face

to oppose so just a requisition, can have no other mo足

tive, but to make us appear in the light of scoundrels

and vagabonds.

