11* TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK II.

disgrace, and recover all they had lost in war. The

name and relation to the Tarquinienses, were irresistible

motives. Besides, they piqued themselves upon the ho­

nour of giving a king to Rome. Thus the armies of

these two states put themselves under the command of

Tarquin, to reinstate him on the throne, and take ven­

geance on the Romans.

When they entered the Roman territories, the consuls

went out to meet them. Valerius led on the foot in

square battalia, and Brutus marched before with the

horse to reconnoitre the enemy. The Tarquins marched

in the same order: Aruns, Tarquin's son, advancing

with the horse, and Tarquin himself following with the

legions. Aruns, by the lictors, knewnt was one of the

.consuls who was advancing against him, when at a dis­

tance: but upon a nearer approach, he discovered by

his face, that it was certainly Brutus. Then boiling

with indignation, "There," says he, " is the man,

"who hath banished and expelled us our country; see

"him, how he rides in state, proud in the ensigns of

"our dignity. Ye gods, avengers of injured kings,

"assist me now."—With this, he put spurs to his horse,

and drove against the consul with all his force. Brutus

saw his aim; and, as in those days it was reckoned a piece

of gallantry in the generals to open the battle, by en­

gaging in single combat, at the head of their armies,

he met him with equal ardour. They rushed against

each other with inveterate fury, insomuch, that neither

caring how much his own person was exposed, could he

only wound his adversary, they both tumbled from their

horses at the same instant lifeless, to the ground, pinned

together by their lauce^ which being pushed in opposite

directions, had transfixed them through their shields.

At the same time, the battle with the horse became

general, nor was it long before the foot came up ; often

was the victory lost and won, and in the end very doubt­

ful. The right of both armies carried all before them,

while the left of both was defeated. The Vejentes, ac­

customed to be beat by the Roman?, were routed and

put to flight. The Tarquinienses, a new enemy, not

only stood their ground, but where they fought, obliged

the Romans to give way.

