222 TITUS LIVIUS' . BOOK III.

"the consuls, for the preceding years, would not permit

"him to prosecute Coeso, as the author of this inhuman

"murder." The people were so exasperated at this

charge, that in their fury, they were not far from taking

immediate vengeance on the spot.

Virginius ordered him to be seized and carried to pri­

son; but the Patricians prevented the execution by force.

His father, T. Quinctius, insisted, " That it was quite in-

"consistent with all law, to do violence to the person of

'any citizen accused of a capital crime, for which he

'was to be tried, before he was heard in his own de-

'fence and condemned." The tribune replied, " That

'he had no intention of hurting his person, till he should

'be legally condemned, but only to secure him in pri-

'son till the day of his trial, that as he had been guilty

'of murder, the Roman people might have it in their

'power to punish him for it."

When an appeal was made to the tribunes, they exert­

ed their right of relieving the oppressed, by taking a

middle way. They agreed, that he should not be im­

prisoned, but should find bail for his appearance iu

judgment, on the day appointed, under a penalty, to

be forfeited to the people, in case of non-appearance.

There was a dispute about the extent of the penalty,

which was at last submitted to the nomination of the

senate; and during the deliberation of the fathers on that

point, Caeso was kept under arrest in the forum. They

fixed the sum in which each surety should be bound,

at three thousand asses of brass;* but left it to the col­

lege of tribun<'s to determine the number. They de­

manded ten, and ten were bound for Cseso's appearance

accordingly. This was the first instance of a state crir-

minal's finding bail.

Being now at liberty, the very next night, he left

Rome, and retired in exile among the Etrurians. When

the day fixed for his trial came, it was pled, that Caeso

having banished himself, he was not amenable to their

assembly; but Virginius held the Committa notwithstand­

ing, and an appeal being entered to the other tribunes,

tlie assembly was dismissed. The penalty was, however,

# Nine pounds thirteen shillings and sixpence.

