256 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK IH.

.immediately followed the murder of the proprietor. The

young nobility, debauched by this sort of gain, not onVy

.connived at these scenes of injustice,. but openly prefsr-

: oil a life of liceutiousness to public liberty.

CHAP. XXXVIII.

The Sabines renew the war. The Decemvirs at a loss.

.1 HE ides of May came, and not the least appearance

of any comitia, fur an election of new magistrates. The

tyrants then, who were in tact but private persons, shew-

.ed themselves bare-faced, and retained their authority,

without any other title but rapine and violence. This

was a manifest usurpation of regal tyranny. Every one

deplored in secret the loss of liberty, but not oue in the

whole republic had the spirit to attempt to break her

.chains. The Roman people now seemed to have lost all

courage, and the nations who had submitted to their do­

minion, began now to despise them as disdaining to be

•subject to a state, whose liberty subsisted no longer.

. The Sabines, in formidable parties, dispersed them­

selves over the Roman territories, and having made a

great booty in prisoners and cattle, collected their scat­

tered forces, and encamped at Ereturn, placing all their

hopes in the anarchy at Rome, which they imagined,

•would be an effectual bar to the levies.

The news of these disasters were confirmed by the

peasants who fled from the neighbourhood, and spread

terror through the whole city. The decemvirs now de­

liberated upon the measures proper to be taken, and

whilst the hatred of the senate and people had shut every

door of resource against them, one storm followed close

on the back of another. The jEqui, on the other side,

\vere encamped at the Algidus. Messengers were dis­

patched from Tusculum to Rome, with advices that de­

tachments from their army were ravaging tlie Tu?culan

territories, at the same time, requesting assistance. These

accounts threw the decemvirs into the utmost consterna­

tion, seeing themselves obliged, amidst the dread of two

wars, of necessity to assemble the senate. They there­

fore, gave orders, to cite the fathers to assemble in the

