258 TITUS LIVIUS* BOOK III.

had been told that the fathers were in town, but would

not acknowledge their authority. They were all order­

ed to be sent for; and the meetmg was adjourned till the

next day, -when it was more numerous than the decem­

virs themselves expected, which damped the people not

a little, as imagining the cause of liberty abandoned by

the fathers, since they had submitted to the authority of

those, who ought to have been out of office; as if they

had had a legal title to compel them, who, but for the

violence of their measures, would be only private. persons.

CHAP. XXXIX.

The Decemvirs are told their real character.

.IJUT it seems they showed more submission in coming;

to the house, than they did in delivering their opinions.

for it is reported of Valerius Potitus, that after Appiits

Claudius had opened the cause of their meeting, and be­

fore it came to his turn to give his opinion, be stood up,

and demanded to be beard relative te the state of the

Republic. The decemvirs sternly ordered him to sit

down, and hold his peace, but he declared he would go

out and lay the matter before the people, which raised a

terrible storm. M. Horatius Barbatus also entered very

warmly into the dispute, and loudly called them " ten

"Tarquins, the tyrants of their country: at the same

"time, reminding them in direct terms, that the Valerii

"and Horatii were at the head of the party that expel-

'.' led the kings. It was not the regal title that gave

"them uneasiness at that time: for there could be DO

"harm in a title which was given. to. Jupiter; which,

-" Romulus, their founder, and his successors had enjoy-  
"ed, and to this day retained in religious rites and so-

"lemnities. But it was the pride and tyranny of a king

"which they abhorred; and if these in a sovereign or

"prince of the blood were intolerable, where is the man

"that would tamely bear them in ten private persons?

"Have a care then, (says he,) lest by restraining the

"liberty of speech in this house, you draw not on your-

"selves a more severe commentary without doors. lean

"see no more impropriety in n>y calling an assembly of.

