. ii. ROMAN HISTORY. 41?

—No rest at all for the poor Plebeians, who after all

their other hardships, are now taxed, although they had

brought back nothing from the wars, but bodies worn

out with fatigue, wounds, and old age; and at home,

found their farms uncultivated through the long absence

'of their owners; and yet, notwithstanding the ruinous

'state of their affairs, tribute they must pay. Thus does'

''the pay of the army return accumulated to the state, as

• if it had been let out at interest.'

Besides the levies, taxes, and other cases of more im­

portance, at the election of the Plebeian tribunes, the

number could not be completed. The Patricians strug­

gled hard to get some of their erder co-opted to fill up

the vacant places; and when they failed in that attempt,

they carried that two Plebeians, C. Lacerius, and M.

Acutius, should be elected, and that no doubt, by means

of their own influence, for the purpose of invalidating

the tribonian law.

CHAP. XI.

Prosecution of Scrgiiis and Virginius.

./\MONG tfiose who had been chosen, there happened

to be one Trebonius, who believ.ed that nothing less was

due to his name and family, than the defence of a law

instituted by one of his ancestors. He exclaimed, ' That

the military tribunes had extorted what some of the

Patricians had sued for in vain, as they had found in

their first attempt; that the Trebohian law was infring­

ed, and a co-option of tribunes effected, not by the

suffrages of the people, but by the authority of the

Patricians, and the matter was now come to that pass,

that the tribunes of the commons were either actually

Patricians, or their creatures. The sacred laws were

prostituted, and the power of the tribunes trampled un­

der foot: and he insisted all these were owing to the

fraudulent practices of the Patricians, and the wicked­

ness and treachery of his colleagues.'

Whilst not only the senators, but even the tribunes,

the co-opted as well as the elected, had incurred the

odium of the people, these of the collesje, P. Curatius,

AL Mitilius, and M. Minutius, afraid of losing their in­

