16 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK I.

Paphlagonia*, were in search of a settlement and a

leader, for their king Palymenes had fallen at Troy:

—That the Trojans, in Conjunction with the Heneti,

having driven out the Euganei, who inhabited the coun­

try between the sea and the Alps, took possession of

their lands. The place where they first landed was called

Tcoy, and from thence the Trojan district. The people

in general were called Venetians.—TThat ./Eneas, driven

from his country by a similar disaster, but conducted by

his fates, to enterprises more important, landed first in

Macedonia, and moving thence in quest of a settlement,

was carried to Sicily, whence he steered for the country

of Laurentumf. This place was also called Troy.

There the Trojans disembarking, and having nothing

left, after their tedious and troublesome voyages, but

their arms and vessels, fell to plundering the country.

To put a stop to this violent proceeding in the strangers, \

Latinus and the Aborigines, who were then the proprie­

tors, flocked out in arms from town and country.

The event of this affair is differently retated. Ac­

cording to some authors, Latinus bemg defeated in battle,

first made a peace with jEneas, which was afterwards

confirmed by a matrimonial alliance: but others con-

tend, that when both armies stood drawn up in order of

battle, before the signal was given, Latinus advancing

among his nobles,-invited the leader of the foreigners

to an interview. He then enquired who they were,

whence they came, what had obliged them to leave their

country, jano. what they wanied in the territory of Lau-

rentum? After he had been informed that the people

were Trojans, who under the conduct of .ffiueas, the

son of Anchises' and Venusi after their country was de­

stroyed, had wandered in'Tjuest of a settlement, and a

spot upon which they might build a city; admiring tfie

majestic appearance of the'man, the dignity of his fa­

mily, and withal a suul equally prepared for peace or

war, he confirmed to him a promise of future amity, by

giving him 'he hand of friendship.

* Bounded by the rivers Partbenius and Halys, part of Pallo-  
griecia and the Euxine sea.

! San Lorcn i».

