CHAP. 38. ROMAN HISTORY. 25V

senate-house, at the same time that they well knew what

a torrent of reproaches they had to encounter; they were

not ignorant, that the ravages of the country, and all the

misfortunes that threatened the state, would be stated to

their account. They foresaw, that an attempt would

then be made, to wrest their authority from them, if thev

did not with united vigour oppose it, and make examples

of all who should presume to enter the lists against them.

When the voice of the herald was heard in the forum,

summoning the senators to meet the decemvirs in the se­

nate-house, the people were quite astonished, so great a

novelty was it now to consult the senate, that custom

having been long discontinued. "What can be the mat-

"ter now," said they, "that they revive a practice so

"long out of date? We have our enemies and the war

"to thank, for seeing the least vestige of our ancient li-

"berty in the city." They looked round the forum in

every part for senators, but few or none appeared. From

thence they repaired to the senate-house, where nothing

appeared around the decemvirs, but empty space, which

the usurpers themselves ascribed to an aversion at their

government, and the people to a-contempt of their au­

thority; who, as private persons, had no right to call a

senate. This, they concluded was an opening for the

admission of liberty, provided the commons would go

hand in hand with the senate, and mind the summons for

enrolment, as little as the senators had done the pro- -

clamation for holding a senate.

Such were the private sentiments of the Plebeians.

There was scarce any of the senators to be seen in the

forum, and very few in the city. Shocked at the pre­

sent administration, they had retired into the country,

where, since they could be of no service to the public,

they might look after their private affairs; persuaded,

that the farther they were. removed from the meetings

and assemblies of those tyrannical monsters, the more

they were out of harm's way. When they did not obey

the citation, officers were sent round to their dwelling-

houses, to distrain their effects, and to enquire whether

they had absented themselves on purpose. The officers

reported that the senators were in the country, which

gave much more pleasure to the decemvirs, than if they •

