viii THE TRANSLATOR

more. With what diffidence does he disclose his design?

and with what distrust of his abilities to support with

propriety so great an undertaking? But his fears are a

proof of his wisdom; and he promises little, that his read­

ers might be agreeably disappointed: So true it is, that

a man's modesty is generally in proportion to his judg­

ment. This is one reason why Livy attracts our admira­

tion whenever we read his works: for, having promised

nothing, we soon discover the clearness of his composi­

tion; the depth of his penetration; the extent of his

genius; the fertility of his imagination; and, in fine,

numberless beauties, elegancies, and excellencies, pecu­

liar to himself, which, in the modesty of his Introduction,

we were not taught to expect. What fund of wisdom,

what politeness of manners were requisite to depress that

pride, that self-appropriation, so natural to the human

mind, and yet to do justice to his character?

If Livy's sincerity could have been possibly stifled, the

respect shown him by Augustus, the favour to which he

was elevated, and the estimation he was held in at court,

might have corrupted him: yet none of these consider­

ations prevented him from doing justice to the character

ofPompey, and speaking respectfully of Brutus and Cas-

sius, whenever an opportunity offered.* A conduct so

generous, candid, and disinterested, Cremutius Cordus,

according to Tacitus, thought he could never sufficiently

praise.:

Such was Livy in the qualities of his heart; and such

were his personal endowments. And, without doubt,

but for such an historian there would have been something

defective in the glory, or rather the good fortune of a

people, who by their military and political virtues, raised

themselves to the highest pitch of terrestrial greatness.

This gave rise to the Famous inscription found at Padua,

Anno 1413, in the church of St. Justina. Ossa Titi Livii

Patavini unius omnium mortalium judicio digJK, cujus

prope invicto calamo, invicti populi Romani res gesttE con-

scribcrentur.

j/ The end and design of history is to instruct and im-

'prove the present, by exhibiting a true picture of past

* Tac. Lib. iv. Anna'.

