CHAP. 53. ROMAN HISTORY. 185

tlie danger,. The testimony of his colleague Virginius

too, had its own weight, as he generously shared with

him the honour of the success: but what turned the scale

entirely in his favour, was their shame for the sentence

they passed on Menenius, so much was their disposition

changed upon reflection.

CHAP. LIII.

War with the Vejentes and SubintSi

\ O sooner were their domestic trouble.-, over, than a •

war broke out wiih the Vejentes, with whom the Sabines

had joined in a confederacy. The consul,- Publius

Valerius, having called in the Latins and Hernici as

auxiliaries, was ser.t against Veii- with an army, and

immediately opened the campaign by attacking the camp

of the Sabines, which they had set down before the walls

of their allies. This struck them wiih such consterna­

tion, thai whilst they run different ways in broken com­

panies to repel the assailants, the gate where the grand

attack began, was carried by the Romans. Within the

rampart, it was not a contest, but a massacre. The

confusion from the camp, found its way to the city, and

put the Vejentes in such terror, that they run to their arms,

asif their city had been taken.' Some of them fly to

tite assistance of the Sabines, whilst others fall upon the

Romans with all their force, who were totally engaged

in Carrying the camp. They fell back a little in some

confusion; but recovering themselves, faced about, and

forming a double front, made head against both armies.

The horse too, by orders of the consul, charging the

Etrurians, broke and routed them entirely,

Thus were two armies defeated, and two of the most

opulent and powerful of all the neighbouring states, sub­

dued in the same instant of time. Daring these opera-

tions at Veii, the .ffiqui and Volsci had encamped in the,

Latin territories, and were ravaging the country. With-.

out a general, or any other assistance from Rome, the

Latins, in conjunction with the Hernici, forced their

camp, and possessed themselves of a va.t booty, besides

what had been taken from them.. Tlie.consul-C, Nan-

