452 . TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK V.

original, but a little of their language, and that too cor­

rupted.

CHAP. XXXIV.

In continuation.

JL HE history which "I have been able to collect of

the descent of the Gauls into Italy, is as follows: Dur­

ing the reign of Tarquinius Priscus at Rome, the Bitu-

riges had the supreme authority among the Celue, who

inhabited a third part of Gaul,* and gave them a king

called Ambigatus, a very powerful prince, both on ac­

count of his personal bravery, and fortune, public and

private; who finding that the part of Gaul of which he

was sovereign, was so overstocked with produce as well

as inhabitants, that it was next to impossible to manage

/ --them, signified to Bellovisus and Sigovisus, his sister's

'sons, two active young fellows, as he was now an old

man, and wished to get clear of a troublesome crowd,

that he resolved to send them into whatever settlements

the gods by augury should direct. They might rais«

what number of "men they pleased, that no nation,

wherever they came, might be able to repel them.

The Herniciau forest (a) fell by lot to Sigovisus, bat

the gods pointed out to Bellovisus a wore agreeable

road to Italy. He assembled the Bituriges (A), Averni (c),

Senones (d), jEqui (e), Ambarri (/), Carnutes (g), and

Aulerci (/<), because these cantons were overstocked with

people.

* Gaul was divided into three parts, and inhabited by three dis­  
tinct sorts of people, the Belgse, the Gauls or Celts', and the Aqui-

1*ni. tietsic Gaut was bounded by ihe Seine, the Marne, the moun­

tains of Vague, the Rhine, and the ocean. Cettic Gaul, by the

ocean, the Seine, the IVIarne, the Soane, the Rhone, and the Ga­

ronne; and Aquitanic Gaul, by the ocean, the Garrionne, and the

Pyrenees. Modem Gaul has a fourth, namely Provence, where

the Massilians landed and founded the city Marseiltes.

(a) This forest covered a great part of the ancient Germany,

commencing at the banks of the Rhine, and in Suabia, where it i*

calted at this day the Black Forest, and extending beyond Bohemia.

(k) People who inhabited Bourges. (c) Auvergne.

('0 Senonois. (e) Antonsis. (/) Charlois. (g) Cbartres.

(A) Evreux. -.

