CHAP. 53. - - . ROMAN HISTORY. 279

CHAP. LIH.

A coalition of the two Orders.

V ALERIUS and Horatius were then deputed with

full powers to 'conclude a treaty of pacification with-the

people; and it was recommended to them, to take pro­

per precautions, that the decemvirs might not suffer from.

the rage and violence of the populace. As they were

approachmg, they were met and ushered into the camp,

with universal joy, as the deliverers of their country,

by their exertions in this affair, both in setting it on

foot, and bringing it to a happy conclusion. For all

which, they had public thanks returned them.

Icilius spoke for the multitude. When they came to

an explanation, the deputies desiring to be informed

with respect to the people's demands; Icilius's answer,

which had been concerted before their arrival, plainly

evinced, that the people founded their pretensions more

in equity, than in the arms which they had in their

hands. They insisted on the re-establishment of tri­

bunes, and the right of appeal, which had been the pil­

lars of their liberty, before the creation of the decemvirs,

together with an amnesty for all those who had been

concerned in advising the revolt and the secession. On­

ly they insisted to have the decemvirs punished with

great severity, making it a point, that the decemvirs

should be delivered into their hands, and they threaten­

ed to burn them alive.

The deputies replied; " Your claim, gentlemen,

which we suppose has the general approbation, is so

fair and equitable, that we come prepared to grant it

of our own accord. For, it only tends to protect your

liberty, and not to promote licentiousness, to the pre­

judice of others. Your resentment against the decem­

virs, we must rather pardon than comply with. From.

an abhorrence of cruelty, you want to give an example

of it in your own conduct; and are for lording it over

others, before you have made sure of your own free­

dom. Shall this city never see an end of our eitmity,

and declared war between the senate and people?

