292 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK III.

"ed. It was their business now to evidence that Ro-

"man bravery had neither expired with the institution

"nor abolition of the decemvirate; and that the laws

"which established an equality among the citizens, had

"not diminished their valour."

Having thus harangued the foot, amidst their ensigns,

he turns to the horse, addressing them to this effect:

"Come on, my brave fellows, you are now to vie with

"the foot, in support of your honour and superior rank.

"To the bravery of the foot the enemy gave way at

"the first charge; Ho you complete the disorder, by

"giving the reigns to the horses, and drive them out of

"the field of battle. They will not stand your attack.

* See,—they are too much at a stand, even to act on  
"the defensive." Now they put spurs (o their horses,

and furiously charged the enemy, already put in confu­

sion by the foot, and having broke through their ranks,

penetrated even to their rear. Sonie of them rid ing round

the open space, blocked up every passage to the ene­

my's camp, and as they were flying on all sides, rode up

to intercept them. The foot, with the consul-at their

head, and, in short, the best part of the army turned upon

the camp, where many of the enemy fell, whilst the Ro­

mans remained masters of their camp, and a considerable

booty.

The news of this victory was SoO11 carried to Rome,

and the other army that acted against the Sabines. In

the city, it was solemnized with great rejoicings, and in

the camp, it excited the greatest emulation. Horatius, by

skirmishing and slight engagements, had accustomed his

troops to confide rather in their present valour, than to

remember their past defeat, under the decemvirs: and

these little encounters had made them confident of vic­

tory, whenever they should come to a general engage­

ment.

Nor did the Sabines, encouraged by the successes of

the former year, fail incessantly to provoke them, asking

them reproachfully, " What they meant by wasting the

"time in petty depredations, like a banditti, and thus

"spinning out a war in skirmishes with straggling par-

"ties, which might be determined in one decfsive ac­

