CHAP. 2-. ROMAN HISTORY. 311

of the meanest commoner, but would effectually wrest

every shadow of power from them, to entail it upon the

commons.

Wherefore, they received the news with joy, that the

Ardeates, in resentment of the judgment given against

them in the property submitted, had abandoned thepartv

of the Romans, that the Vejentes were laying waste the

frontiers of the Roman domains, and that the Volsci and

JEqui were in motion, on account of the fortifications

raised at Virrugo: so much did they prefer even an un- ,

successful war, to a dishonourable peace.

Wherefore, upon these advices, which were much ex­

aggerated, to drown the clamours'of the tribunes, with

the alarms of so many wars, the senate ordered the le­

vies to be made, and preparations for war, with more

keenness, if possible, than in the consulship of T. Quinc-

tius. -Then C. Canuleius declared, in a few words, in

fall senate, that they might save themselves the trouble

of imposing on the people, by the terrors of war, to di­

vert their attention from the new laws; for, while he

had breath, they would not enlist a man, until the law?

proposed by him and his colleagues, were received; and

then went out directly and assembled the people.

CHAP. II.

, The Consuls remonstrate.

./\T this time,.the consuls used every argument to ex­

asperate the senate against the tribune; who, on his part,

inflamed the people against the consuls. The consuls

contended, • That the madness of the tribunes was no

• longer to be endured. That matters were now come

'to an extremity. That the enemies without doors were

'nothing, compared to those in their bosom. That thi*

'evil was not to be imputed to the people, and their tri-

'- hunesonly; the senators and consuls were even morecul-

'pable.—That whatever is countenanced and rewarded ire

•.' a city, gains ground and increases prodigiously. That

'it was in this manner, our greatest statesmen and

« generals were formed.—That in Rome, nothing was

"now considered or rewarded but sedition, which. never

