CHAP. 13. ROMAN'HISTORY. 331

self to do in private, and brought the sarae sort of people

to frequent the houses of both. By their means, the

whole plot was discovered, and laid before ihe senate,

by Minucius, who told them, that arms were carried

into Maeliu.s', house, where he also held assemblies; and

there was not a doubt, but he was taking measures to

make himself king. That the time for the^execution of

his design wa« not yet fixed, but every thing previous to

it was concerted, and the tribunes being brought up to

betray their country, the leading men among the com­

mons had the parts assigned them they were respective­

ly to act. That he came with this information later,

perhaps, than the safety of the republic required, bat he

wished to advance nothing, of the certainty whereof he

was not perfectly assured.^

Upon this relation, heavy reproaches were thrown by

the principal senators, from every part of the house, on

the consuls of the former year, because they had suffered

such largesses to be made, and such meetings to be held

in a private house; nor did the present consuls escape

them, for waiting till so important a discovery shoufd be

made by a purveyor-general, whereas. it was the duty 01

the consuls not only to have been acquainted with an.

affair of such moment, but also to have punished the de­

linquent.

Titus Quinctiu?, in answer, told them, that they had

no reason to blame the consuls, whose authority being

cramped, and in a manner annihilated by the laws of

appeal, whatever their courage and resolution might be

to punish a crime .of that nature according to its enor­

mity!" by no means furnished them with the power. i In"

this case, that a man of resolution, was not sufficient, his

power must be unlimited, he must be above the law.

That for this reason he would name L. Quinctius Dicta­

tor, a .man whose soul was as capacious as the power

- was extensive. All approved of this motion ; but Quin-  
tius wished to be off, asking them what they meant by

exposing him, at such an advanced age, to so severe a

conflict. ^ But when the senators, as it were with one

voice; declared, that not only more wisdom, but actually

more real courage resided under his venerable form than

could be found'among them all put together, and loaded

