CHAP. 21. ROMAN HISTORY. 45

for advice, or redress, should any innovation be made

in their religious ceremonies, either by the-neglect of

their own, or the substitution of others of foreign growth.

But, to preside over matters of religion was not the only

business of the high-priest. He was also to instruct

them in the- manner of performing funeral obsequies,

and appeasing tiie manes of the dead: what prodigies

from thunder or other phaenomena were to be consider足

ed as motives to action, or cautions against it. To gain

this divine intelligence, he dedicated an altar to Jupiter

Elicius* on the Aventine mount, where he consulted him

by augury, in what acceptation the auguries should be

taken.

CHAP. XXI.-

Numa institutes an annual festival, and other sacrifices.

J. HE minds of the people were now so totally engrossed

with these deliberations and expiations, that arms and

acts of violence were rather an aversion: and being

made sensible that the deity presides over all human

affairs, from their constant practice of religious duties,

their sentiments of piety were so sincere, that promises

and oaths, in the government of the city, were as effec足

tual as the terror of the laws- and punishment. And

now since the Roman citizens formed their manners

upon the plan of their royal master, which all consider足

ed as the most perfect model; the neighbouring nations

also, who before had viewed Rome, not in the light of

a city, but a camp set down in the heart of the country

to oppress them, were now impressed with so high an

opinion of its sanctity, that to give the least disturbance

to a state entirely devoted to the service of the gods they

reckoned the highest sacrilege.

There was a grove constantly watered by a spring

issuing from a dark cave, which ran through the middle

of it. Because Numa often retired thither by himself,

under pretence of meeting with his goddes? , he conse足

crated the grove to the Muses, where ho, they, and his

* Prom Atic'.en 1-..

