330 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK IV.

S

'• •

CHAP. XIII.

i

Designs of Malius.—A Dictator created.

this time, one Sp. Mseiius of the equestrian order,

who was very rich for these times, put a design in exe-

cutiou, which, however serviceable for the present, iu its

tendency and intention, was execrable. For, -having

bought up corn, at his own expence inEtruria, by means

of his agents and correspondents, (a circumstance which

rendered Minucius' endeavours to supply the markets

quite ineffectual)^ he began to distribute it. among tlie

necessitous with a liberal hand. Touched with so much

generosity, the people attended him every where, aod

formed a retinue for him, far above the condition of a

private gentleman, and gave him great grounds to hope,

that by their favour and good will, he would one day be

raised to the consulship. But as ambition is ever insa­

tiable, and still grasping; at something beyond its reach,

he carried his views much farther, and quite out of bis

sphere. He considered, that he roust force himself into

the cbnsulship, in spite of every opposition from the fa­

thers, and that therefore it was better to fix on sovereign

power for his object at once: as that alone was a prize

worthy-of the deep designs he must necessarily form,

and the opposition he had to conquer.

It was just upon the eve of the Comttia for electing

consuls, a circumstance that gave him no small trouble,

as his measures were not properly concerted, nor his de­

signs ripe for execution. T. Quinctius Capitolinus was

chosen consul for the sixth time, a man of all others, the

most inconvenient to any person who wanted to play a

game of this kind. Agrippa Menenius, surnamed La-

natus, was given him for his colleague. L. Minucius

was continued in his office, either as being re-elected-, or

because his office did not expire, till the occasion of it

was superseded. For, we have no other proof of the

matter, but that his name stands registered among tjie

magistrates of this and the preceding year, iu the linen

records. The duty of the purveyor's office obliged luui

to do the same in public, which M&lius took upon him­

