298. TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK 111

posed a bill, importing, " That whoever should here-

"after hold the Comitia for electing tribes, should not

"dissolve the assembly, till the number of ten tribunes

"be completed by the votes of the tribunes." He passed

his whole year in crossing the senate, which procured

him the title of crabbed.

Then M. Geganius Macerinus, and C. Julius succeed­

ed to the consulate. They quelled the cabals of the tri-

'bufies, which they were beginning to form against the

young Patricians, without inveighing against the excess

of their power, or sinking below the dignity of their or­

der. They kept the people quiet, by decreeing levies

for the war against the jEqui and Volsci, which prevent­

ed any sedition from taking place, assuring them, that

the only way to secure peace abroad, was to be quiet at

home; for nothing contributed so much to raise the

spirits of foreign nations, as domestic broils.

Thus, -by their care to secure peace abroad, they had

the good fortune to maintain tranquillity at home; though

the one order never failed to take the advantage of the

moderation of the other. When the young Patricians

began to be petulant, the people were giving no trouble.

When the tribunes began to support the weakest, they

were little regarded at first, and at last, did not them­

selves escape without insults, especially about the close

of the year: when, during the meetings of the nobility,

licentiousness prevails, and the exercise of magisterial

authority generally becomes more languid.

The people's whole hopes centered in choosing tribunes

like Iciiius; for, during the two last years their tribunes

were no more than a name. The elder senators, on their

part, were not insensible, that their youth. were turbu­

lent, ami carried things too far; but if the bounds of mo­

deration were to be exceeded^ they thought it better to

have pride and spirit on their side, than on 'that of the

opposition. So difficult is it to act with moderation in

supporting liberty, as every one, under pretence of level­

ling, raises himself in proportion, as he depresses another.

While we endeavour to have~nothingfb apprehend from

others, we render ourselves terrible; to avoid oppression,

we oppress, as if we could not help doing, or suffering

injustice.

