M8 \ TITUS LIVIUS' Book II.

suls to death, by that means to evade their military oath;

but being told that no religious engagement could be

dissolved by a crime, by the advice of one Sicinius,

without any orders from the consuls, they withdrew to

the sacred mountain, on the other side of the'Anio, three

miles from Rome.

This account meets with more credit than that of Piso,

who makes it the Aventine hill. Here they fortified

their camp with a moat and rampart, continued quiet for

several days, though subject to no leader, neither gave

provocation nor received it; and took nothing but what

their subsistence barely required.

The city was now in the utmost consternation; and

both parties being mutually afraid of each other, could

come to no resolution that was decisive. The commons,

who had been left in the city by their party, dreaded

the exasperated fathers, who, on the other hand, uncer­

tain of their sentiments as to staying or going, were

equally afraid of them. It was a common question.

How long will the seceders remain quiet} What would

be the consequence, were any foreign war to break out

in the mean time? They were now sensible, that there

were no other means of saving the state, but by re-unit­

ing it; and that for this reason, the people must be re­

conciled and made their friends at any rate.

Wherefore they agreed to send Menenius Agrippa,

an excellent speaker, and very acceptable to the com­

mons, being descended of a Plebeian family, as deputy to

the seceders. Being admitted into the camp, he is said

to have repeated the following fable, in the rough and

unpolished manner of the times, without any other argu­

ment. "Upon an occasion, (says he,) when members of

"the human body were not on the same friendly foot-

"ing as at present, and each member had a council and

"language peculiar to itself, the other parts of the

"body were in no small passion, that they should all

-' sweat, toil, and labour for the belly, whilst it enjoyed  
"the pleasures provided for it in idleness and at ease.

"In consequence of all this, they conspired that the

"hands should no longer carry food to the mouth, that

"the mouth should not receive it, nor the teeth grind

*' it. Whilst they were thus furiously intent upoh re-

