CHAP. 48. ROMAN HISTORY. 271

of matrons, be was received with doleful wailings, and

Virginias shaking his fist in the face of Appius, cried

out, " It was to Iciliu.s, not to thee, Appius, I promised

"my daughter. To. honourable marriage I have brought

"her up, and not foe the brutal passion of an infamous

"ravisher. What! is the lawless and promiscuous lust

"of wild beasts to be introduced amongst us! How the

"citizens here will bear this, I will uot pretend to say,

"but I hope those who are in arms will never endure

"it." The claimant was repulsed by the crowd of wo­

men, and friends that stood round Virginia, when silence

was proclaimed by a herald.

CHAP. XLVIIt

• Virginius stabs his Daughter, to save her virtue,

J. HE decemvir, now intoxicated with his criminal

passion, told them, " That he had sufficient reason to.

suspect, from Icilius' invectives yesterday, and Vir­

ginius' insolence to day, whereof the Roman people

had been witnesses, that they only sought to excite a

tumult; but that was not all, for he had got certain

information, that they had been forming cabals in the

city all the night long, for that purpose: That, there-

fore, being apprized of the design, he had not come

"thither without a guard. Not that he meant to give

V the least trouble to those who were peaceably dispos-

"ed, but to keep those in awe, in virtue of his office,

"who should dare to interrupt the peace of the city.

"For which reason, they had better make no further

"disturbance. Go lictor," pursued he, " put aside the

"crowd, and make way for themaster to seize his slave."

When swollen with rage, he had expressed himself

thus, with a tone of authority, the crowd gave way of

their own accord, leaving the poor girl standing alone,

a victim to lawless lust.^—Virginius then, when he saw

no appearance of relief, intreated Appius, in the first

place, " To impute 'it to a father's grief, if he had un-

"guardedly expressed himself unbecoming the dignity

"of Appius; and, in the second place, to indulge him.

',' with. a moments conversation with the nurse, in the,

