316 TITUS LIVUUS' , BOOK IV,

CHAP. IV.

In continuation.

1 GRANT you that no Plebeian has been made con­

sul, since the expulsion of the kings; and pray, what

then? Are we never to think of any new institution?

In an infant state as this is, how many regulations must

still be wanting? and must these, however necessary,

and essential, be for ever excluded? In the reign of

Roruulus, whoever heard of priests or augurs? but they

ware instituted by NumaPompilius. In the city there

was originally no census, no distribution of the people

into centuries and classes, till they were appointed by

Servius Tullius. The title of consul never existed, till

consuls were created after the expulsion of kings. Was

there ever a dictator, either in name or authority, till the

senate brought that office into existence? There was

a time when tribunes, ediles, and quaestors were un­

known; but it was determined that they should b.e.

Within these ten years, we made decemvirs for com­

piling laws, and we have also unmade them. Who

can imagine, in a city which is to endure for ever, and

is increasing to infinity, b'ut that new offices, priest­

hoods, privileges and laws, will be instituted both for

families and individuals? This very law, which prohi­

bits intermarriages between the two orders of the state,

was it not passed by the decemvirs a few years ago, to

the disgrace of'the public, and the detriment of the

people? Can any thing in effect be more expressive of

contempt, more scandalous and disgraceful, than to de­

clare one part of the city so impure and unclean, that

it is unworthy to be allied with the other in marriage?

What is it else than to be subjected to a sequestration,

a banishment within these walls? They are all upon

the watch to prevent every connection with us by af­

finity or relation, and particularly that there may be

no mixture of blood. What is the meaning of all this?

If this nobility of yours has been polluted in this way,

which, after all, the greatest part of you, who are de­

scended of the Albines or Sabines, owe neither to your

