390 . TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK IV.

ployment but that of offering sacrifice for the prosperity

of the people, divested of every share of government or

authority in the state.

Whilst both parties were in this ferment, whilst the

people were screwed up to the highest pitch, being

headed by three people, celebrated for their exertions in

popular causes; the fathers foreseeing that every other

office would go in the same manner as the qua-storship,

where the people had a liberty of choosing out of either

order, directed all their engines to secure a consular Co-

rnitia, in which the people had as yet no alternative.

The Icilii, on the other hand, insisted for military tri­

bunes, and that it was high time now for the Plebeians

to be admitted to a participation of the honours of that

office. .

CHAP. LV.

Further contests with the Tribunes. Territories of the

JEqui and Vokci ravaged.

JjUT as yet no claim was entered by the consuls, for

which reason, the people had it not in their power, by

the force of their opposition, to extort what they wanted;

when, very fortunately for their views, advices'were re­

ceived, that the Volsci and jEqui had marched out of

their own country, to pillage that of the Latins and Her-

Jjici. . To chastise the insolence of these restless depre­

dators, when by a decree of the senate, the consuls be­

gan to make the levies, the tribunes opposed them with

all tnfjir might, declaring, that fortune had presented

them and the people with an opportunity of doing them­

selves justice. There were three of them, men of the

first distinction among the Plebeians, and all of them

exceedingly active and enterprising. Two of them

uudertook to have a continual eye upon the motions of

h,is consul, whilst the third harangued the people at as­

semblies, and checked or spurred them, as seemed re­

quisite. Thus were the consuls, on the one hand, pre­

vented from expediting the levies; and the tribunes on

the other hand, from holding the Cornitia, the objects of

their respective pursuits.

