198 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK II.'

They were, however, rescued from the danger, into

which the consul's carelessness had led them, by their

own noble exertions. The war with the Volsci was

conducted with more address; for, in the first baule they

were routed, and driven to Antium, a very rich city.

Numicius not daring to besiege it took Cenon, another

city belonging to the Antiates, but not so opulent as An­

tium. \

Whilst the Romans were thus employed against the

.SLqui and Volsci, the Sabines entered their territories,

and advanced to the very gates of the city, plundering

the country. They did not pass unpunished; for, in 8

few days after, both the consuls, with their two armies,

entering their country, and breathing nothing but ven­

geance, made large reprisals.

Ai

CHAP. LXIV.

War with the Volsci. Device of Suinctius.

L.BOUT the end of the year, the city had some re­

spite from war; but, as usual, it was disturbed by the

contests between the patricians and plebeians. The

commons were so much incensed, that they would not

countenance the election of the consuls; so that it was

held by the patricians and their vassals, who made choice

of T. Quinctius and Q. Servilins.

The beginning of the year was disturbed by domestic

factions, but these were stifled by the eruption of a fo­

reign war. The Sabines having made a hastv march,

through the territory of the Crustumini, ravaged all the

country about the banks of the Anio, with fire and sword;

and, though they were repulsed, after they had pene­

trated almost to the walls of the city, a'nd the gate

Colina, yet they carried off' a vast booty in men and

cattle. But the consul Servilius pursued them with an

army sufficiently exasperated; and when he could not

get up with them, so as to bring them to an action on

fair ground, he spread desolation in their country where-

ever he went, insomuch that he suffered nothing to es­

cape the calamities of war, and returned to Rome with

prodigious spoils.

