100 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK I.

said each of them. They galloped all the way to Rome,

where they arrived about the dusk in the evening, and

from thence to Collatia. There they found Lucretia, not

employed like the king's daughters-in-law, in company

with other ladies of distinction, enjoying themselves in

feasting and diversions; but even at a late hour amidst

her maids, manufacturing wool by candle light.

The contest was determined in favour of Lucretia. She

bad received her husband and the Tarquins with much

ailkbiltty. Her husband not a little vain of his con­

quest, invited his royal guest to a friendly repast. There

Sextus Tarquinius was so captivated with the charms

and behaviour of Lucretia, and so inflamed with passion,

that he was resolved to enjoy her by force.—However,

having thus got over their youthful frolic, which had

taken up a great part of the night, they return unto the

camp.

A

CHAP. LVIII.

Lucretia ravished: stabs herself.

FEW days after, Sextus Tarquinius, without ac­

quainting Collatinus, set out for Cotlatra, with only one

servant. As nobody could divine the motives of this

visit, he was entertained with great civility and respect;

and, after supper, conducted to his apartment. In­

flamed with the ardour of his passion, observing everv

thing was quiet, and the whole family asleep, he stote

into Lucretia's chamber; and coming with his sword

drawn to her^bed-side, he laid his left hand on her breast

and awakened her.

"Be hush, Lucretia," says he, " 1 am 'Sextus Tar-

"quinius; my sword is drawn, the moment you speak

"a word, that moment shall be your last." Lucretia,

as she awakened in a fright, seeing death impending, no

relief near her, was obliged to listen to a declaration of

his passion: he begged amI entreated her to yield to his

desires; then he mingled threats with his prayer-!, and

left no art unpractised to shake her resolution. When

he found that she was positive, and that even the fear of

death could not prevail upon her to consent, he threat­

