344 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK. IV.

once more to be created dictator. Tlf named for master

of (he horse A. Posihumius Tubertus^and preparations

were made for the war, with a vigour proportioned to the

force of all Etruna, compared to thai of only two of its

constituent parts. •-"

CHAP. XXIV.

The Dictator passes a popular law, which is highly resented

by the Censors.

.DUT this affair created less disturbance than was ge­

nerally expected: wherefore, when advices were brought

by the merchants, that the Etrurians had refused to be

concerned with the Vejentes, telling them, since they had

engaged in a war, without consulting them, they must

carry it on without their assistance, and not involve those

in their misfortune?, whom they excluded from their hopes

in more promising days.

The dictator then, thus disappointed in his expectation

of military glory, that he might not seem to have been

created in vain, wished to leave a monument of his dicta­

torship in time of ps:ace; and, with that view, set about

reducing the privileges of the censors; either because he

thought their power too extensive, or perhaps because be

was less dissatisfied with the greatness of their honours

than the time of their duration. Therefore, having cal­

led an assembly, he represented, 'That as the immortal

gods had takpn upon themselves the charge of the re­

public's affairs abroad, under whose protection they

mig-ht rest secure; it was his business to attend to the

liberty of the people, which could only be done with­

in the walls of the city. That lor this purpose, he had

to observe, that it was a matter of the last importance,

to take care, that the great offices of the state should

not continue long in the same hivnds, and that bounds

be set to the duration of employments, to the power

annexed to which, all limitation is impossible. That

all other offices were annual, the censorship alone quin­

quennial. That it was intolerable to live for so many

years exposed to the power of the same persons. That

therefore, he was to propose a law restricting the cen­

sorship to the continuance of eighteen months.*

