338 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK IV.

noise or motion, the Etrurians having no mind to come

to blotos, unless they were compelled; and the dictator

looking back to the capitol, tor the signal from the au­

gurs, which they were to set up, as had been concerted,

the moment they had obtained a favourable omen.

Whenever it appeared, setting up a great shout, he sent

the horse to begin the attack. They were followed by

the foot, and fought wiih great fury. The Etrurians

were obliged to give way every where, to the superior

mettle of the Romans. The horse kept their ground

better; and the king himself, the life and soul of the

whole, riding from place to place, whilst the Romans

pursued him everywhere, kept the victory in suspense.

CHAP. XIX.

Gallantry of Cossus;—Defeat of the Confederates.

J. HERE was at that time an officer of the Roman

cavalry, named A. Cornelius Cossus, very remarkable

for the gracefulness of his person, extraordinary strength,

and exalted courage, who, constantly#?attentive to the

honour of his family, which was very illustrious, both

supported and augmented its glory. Observing that

Tolumnius carried terror and confusion among the Ro­

man troops, wherever he moved, and distinguishing him

by his royal robes, as he flew along the line of battle,

cried out, ' Is that the man who infringes human trea-

'ties, and tramples on the law of nations; if the gods

• will permit any sanctity to remain among mortals, I

'shall soon see, whether I can sacrifice him as a victim.

'to the manes of our ambassadors.' Then springing

forward with great impetuosity against the king, as his

peculiar adversary, with one blow of his lance, unhorsed

him, dismounting himself, the same instant, supported

by his spear. Whilst the king attempted to rise, he

beat him down upon his back with the boss of his buck­

ler, and having given him several wounds, thrust him

through the body, and nailed him to the ground. He

then stript him of his spoils, cut off his head, and fixed

it on the point of his spear, evidencing by that bloody

trophy, his victory to the enemy, and spreading terror

among them everywhere.

