342 TITUS LIVIUS" BOOK IV.

the Roman territory, with a view to plunder. Having

afterward formed a junction with the army of the Ve-

jentos, for tlie Falfsoi, notwithstanding tlie distress of the

Roman republic, and the solicitations of their allies, were

determined to he no more concerned, the two confederate

armies passed the Anio, and displayed their colours near

the Colline-gate. . ,

The consternation was prodigious in town and country.

The consul Icilius drew up his troops on the walls and

rampart of the city, whilst Virginius consulted the senate

in the temple of Romulus. There a dictator was resolv­

ed on, and A. Servilius appointed to the commission, who,

by some, is sirnamed Priscus, by others Structus. Virgi-

nius only waited 10 advise his colleague, who having no

objection, lie named the dictator that night, who chose

Posthumius JEbutius Elva, master of tlie horse.

CHAP. XXII.

The Vuhci and Fidenatcs beat, and Fidena taken.

V-/RDERS were issutd by the dictator, that all should

appear early next morning without the Colline'-gate;

nor did any, who were able to carry arms, fail in their

obedience. The standards were brought him from the

treasury without a moment's delay. When the enemy

observed these motions, they retired to the eminences,

whither the dictator foltowed them with an army suffi­

ciently engaged: and coming to blows with them near

Nomenton, gave the legions of Etruria a severe drubbing,

and pursued them to the city Fidenat, where he blocked

them up. But, as the city stood high and strongly for­

tified, it could not be taken by escalade, nor could a

blockade have been of any service, as they had not only

provisions sufficient for the present, but large magazines

previously laid in. Therefore, finding it would Tie im­

practicable to carry the city by storm or blockade, the

dictator resolved to open a passage under ground to the

citadel, from places near enough to be sufficiently ex­

amined,-at the back of the town, where it was guarded

with least care, as being most strongly fortified by na­

ture.

