252 TITUS LIVIUS". BOOK III.'

protection of their tribunes, since the decemvirs allowed

causes which had been determined by one of tiiem to be

re-heard by another. - •'

CHAP. XXXV.'

. .

Decemvirs chosen a-neu).

A HE assembly for the election of new decemvirs being

fixed twenty-seven days after, the canvassing for that

office raised such a ferment, that the principal men of

the state, fearing, no doubt, that an office of so great

authority, were they not to appear as candidates, might

lay open to persons, by no means worthy of it, used all

their influence to get themselves returned in the nomina­

tion to a dignity, of the establishment whereof, they had

been the wannest opposers, although they now humbly

solicited the favour of that very people, agamst whom

they had contended with so much vehemence before.

Appius, seeing*men so respectable for their years, who

had passed through all the dignities ot the state,so warm

in the pursuit of this, began to be seriou.-iy alarmed. It

was difficult to say, from his behaviour at thii.time,

whether he was then in office, or wanted to be so. Only

on some occasions, he showed more of the candidate

than the decemvir. He spoke lightty of the nobitity,

but the lowest" and most contemptible of the competitors

he extolled to the skies; strutting in the forum among

the Dulii and Julii, his advocates among the people,

with whom their influence- was very considerabte. At

last his colleagues, who till then had been entirety at his

devotion, began to mark him more attentively, bemg at

a loss to unravel the mystery of his intentions. To them

it appeared, that he wus all a mask together. " What!"

said they, " is i! possible, that a man, who inherits all

"the pride of the Claudian family, should all at once

"degenerate into such servile obsequiousness, without

"views of the most interested kind? To descend so

"much from his stateliness;—to put himself so much

"under restraint;—and to mingle m the face of the sun

"with private persons, had not the appearance thai he

"was in haste to abdicate, tut rather, that he was pur-

"suing every plan to be continued in his office."

