37 S TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK IV.

vived.their courage in a peculiar manner, was the no­

mination of Quinctius Servilius Priscus, dictator, by or­

der of the senate; a man, of whose penetration the state

had had proofs on former occasions, and especially with

* respect to the event of this war, he being the only OIK;,  
who, before the late miscarriage, seemed to foreste the

consequence of the misunderstanding of the tribunes.

According to some authors, he cbo?e his son general of

the horse; by whom, in quali'y of military tribune, he

bad been himself declared dictator. Others, however,

say, that Semlius Ahala was made general of the horse

upon this occasion. Wherefore, taking the field with

his new army, he reinforced it with that at Tusculum,

and encamped within two miles of the enemy..

CHAP. XLVII.

Tlie defeat sf the JRqui and Lavicans, and capture of

Lu'uicum, for which a Roman colony vias voted.

T

J. HE neglect and insolence, which had formerly pre­

vailed in the Roman generals, went over to the /Ivrr,

with their good success. The dictator having se.nt hii

horse, in the beginning of the battle, to charge the ene­

my's front, which was soon put into disorder, ordered the

legions to advance to support them with all expedition;

and observing an ensign slacken his pace, he killed him

on the spot. The ardour of the Roman troops was too

much for the /Equi to sustain; wherefore, being over­

powered in the field, they fled with great precipitation

to their camp, which required still less time and trouble

to force, than it had done to beat them in- the field.

The camp being taken and rifled, the dictator gave all

the plunder of it to the troops.

The horse, who had pursued the enemy in their flight

out of the camp, having brought advice, that the routed

Lavicans, and a great part of the ./Equi had fled to

Lavicum, the army marched thither next day, invesied

the place, and having taken it by escalade, it was plun­

dered by the soldiers. The dictator marched back his

victorious army to Rome, and resigned the dictatorship,

eight days after his nomination.

