CHAP. 52. ROMAN HISTORY. 277

it, to the Aventine Mount. There, having joined the

other army, they gave it in charge to the twenty tribunes,

to chuse two of their number to the supreme command.

Their choice fell upon M. Oppius and Sex. Manilius.

The senators anxious for the commonwealth, sat every

day; but the time which ought to have been employed

in concerting prudent measures, was wasted in strife and

wrangling. The decemvirs were incessantly reproached

w.ith the murder of-Sicinius, the lust of Appius, and the

miscarriages in the war. They resolved, however, to

send Valerius and Horatius to the Mount Aventine; but

they refused to undertake the embassy, till the decem­

virs should divest themselves of the ensigns of their au­

thority, which they ought to have done twelve months

ago. The decemvirs complained* that they were to be

reduced, by force, to the condition of private persons,

declaring, they would not lay down their authority, be­

fore jhe laws were passed, for enacting which they had

been created, which was the only term fixed for the ex­

piration of their magistracy.

CHAP. LII.

The Decemvirs are prevailed on to lay down their authority,

\. HE people having got intelligence, by means of M.

Duilius, who had been a tribune, that the senate had

come to no decisive resolution, owing to their constant

wranglings, they left the Aventine, and retired to the

sacred Mount: Duilius assuring them, that the fathers

would never think seriously of the matter, till they should

see the city totally deserted. "But the Mons Sacer will

"remind them ol the steady resolution of the commons,

"- and convince them, that unless the tribunes be restor-

"ed, they will find a re-union impracticable."

Marching, therefore, by the Nomantine way, then

called Ficulensis, they encamped on the sacred Mount,

observing the same good discipline, for which their an­

cestors had been so much admired. Thither they were

accompanied by the people, none staying behind, whose

age would permit him to go. Their wives and children

came after them, asking them mournfully, to whose care

N

