CHAP. 40. ROMAN HISTORY. 367

~ T"

of the wounded Romans as he could, and marched strait

to Rome.

CHAP. XL.

Tempanius returns to Rome, and examined by the Tribunes.

J. HE news of this unfortunate battte and desertion of

the camp had already reached the city. The loss of

the cavalry was particularly deplored by the public in

general, as well as their connections. The consul Fabius,

to prevent surprise, the whole city being alarmed., post­

ed troops At the gates. When the cavalry appeared at

a distance the consternation was still greater, as being

uncertain who they were. The moment it was discover­

ed that these troops were the horse returned safe and

victorious, their fear was converted into such an excess

of joy, that the acclamations of those who congratulated

them, were heard over all the city: and those families,

that but a little before were in the deepest concern, cry­

ing out,.that their friends were gone, ran- out to the

streets in transports, and the mothers and wives, quite

out of their senses, forgetting decency in their present

extasy, ran out to meet the troops, each embracing her

own, with such expressions of tenderness and tears of

joy, as almost approached distraction

The tribunes- of the people, who had impeached M.-

Posthumius and T. Quinctius, on account of the battle

ofVeii, lost by then- means, thought this a noble op­

portunity, in the present resentment of the people

against Sempronius, for reviving tlie odium against them.

Wherefore, having called an assembly, they bawled out

with great warmth, thai because the commonwealth had

been betrayed by its generals at Veii, and their fault

had remained unpunished, the army had again been be­

trayed by the consul in the country of the Volsci, the

bravest of ihe cavalry given up to destruction, and the

camp shamefully abandoned. One of the tribunes, C.

Icilius, ordered the knight Tempanius to be cited before

them, and interrogated him as follows:

Sextus Tempanius, I ask you, 'Whether you think

• that the consul Sempronius chose a proper time to

