CHAP. 14. ROMAN HISTORY. S3

"of the other;—that they would not entail the reproach

"of parricide upon their offspring, children of the one,

"and grand-children of the other. If, (continued they)

"you dislike the connection, or choice we have made,

"let the weight of your resentment fall upon us. It is

"we who are the cause of the war; it is we who have

"shed the blood of our fathers and husbands. We had

"better be dead, than left widows without the one, oi'

"orphans without the other."

This moving scene very sensibly touched the feelings

of the army and generals. All was hush in a moment,

when both leaders advanced with proposals for an accom­

modation. Matters were quickly adjusted, and an union

of both cities and kingdoms effected. Rome tvas made

the seat of the united government. By this coalition, the

numbers of the cities being doubled, the Sabines were

called Suirites, from Cures, by way of distinction.—As a

monumSnl of that battle, the place where Curtius's horse,

springing out of a dry swamp, set him upon shallow

water, was called the Curtian lake. This quick and

• happy transition to peace, from a very unnatural war,

endeared the Sabine women to their fathers and hus­

bands, more than ever; and most of all to Romulus,

who, when he divided the people into thirty Curia, dis­

tinguished them by their names.

Though doubtless the number of the women exceeded

that of the Curiae, yet it is not said, whether they who

gave names to the Curiae were selected to that honour,

for their seniority, superiority of their own, or husbands'

rank, or by lot. At the same time, three hundred knights

were enrolled, and from Romulus, were called Ramnenses;

and from Tatius, Tatienscs. Why, or how they they were

called Luceres, is yet a question. From this date, the

associate kings ruled in common, on the most amicable

footing.

-

CHAP. XIV.

The Fidenates routed.

OOME years after, the relations of Tatius behaved rude-

!y to the femlrassadors of the Laurentes, who when they

