CHAP. 37. ROMAN HISTORY. 36*

tribunes of the people, to pass a decree, that as there

was advice that the Volsci had taken the field, to ravage

the country of the Hernici, the military tribunes should

set out immediately to inform themselves on the spot;

and that, in the mean time, an assembly for the election

of consuls should be held.

They left at their departure, as praefect of the city,

Appius Claudius, the son of the decemvir, a young ma- I

gistrate of great fire and vivacity, and who, from his

cradle, had imbibed an aversion to the people and their

tribunes. The tribunes afterwards had no room to con­

tend with those who had procured this act of the senate,

because they were absent; nor with Appius, because the,

affair was entirely over and completed,

~ * . •

CHAP. XXXVII. .'

^ . Sempronius acts incautiously.

J. HE fasces were conferred on C. Sempronius Atratinus-

and Q. Fabius Vibulanus. An event which happened

this year, though it has no immediate connection with

the affairs of Rome, deserves to be taken notice of here.

Vulturnum,! a city belonging to the Etrurians, now cal­

led f.'uj'iua, was taken by the Samnites. It got the name

of Capua,* from Capys, the general of the Samnites; or,

which is more probable, from the openness of the coun­

try, However, that be, they got possession of it in this

manner:

The Etrurians being quite exhausted by a tedious war,

the Samnites were first admitted to settle with them in

the cily and its territory; and, some time after, taking

the advantage of a public solemnity, the new comers fell

upon the first inhabitants, buried in wine and sleep, and

murdered them all in the night. Immediately on the

back of these transactions, the consuls mentioned above

entered upon their office", on the thirteenth day of De­

cember. By this time, the envoys reported, that a war

* Capua was considered as one of the three most considerable ci­  
ties in the wortd; and, for some time, rivalted both Rome and Car­

thage. Its ruins stitt remain near the village Sancta Maria di Capoa,

situated in one of the finest provinces of the kingdom of Naples.

