CHAP. 21. ROMAN HISTORY. 341

in the presence of Romulus, witnesses not to be imposed

on with a fictitious inscription, calls himself, A. COKNE-

LIUS Cossus, CONSUL.

CHAP. XXI.

An epidemical distemper rages among the Vejentes and

Falisci. T/ie Fidenates attempt a descent upon the Roman

territory.

iN the consulship of M. Cornelius Maluginensis and

L,. Paperius Crassus, the Roman armies marched into

the territories of the Vejentes and Falisci, and brought

offa iarge booty in prisoners and cattle; but the enemy

kept out .of the way, so that there was no opportunity

of coming to blows. They did not, however, lay siege

to any of their cities, because an epidemical distemper

raged among the people, and Spurius Maelius, a. tribune

of the commons, was endeavouring, though-with little

success, to raise commotions at home. lie thought the

popularity of his name would enable him to raise some

dust, and therefore had impeached Minucius, and brought

in a bill for confiscating the estate of Servilius Ahala;

contending, that the charge brought against Maelius by

Minucius, was a villainous trick, a vile forgery; and

that Servilius had put to death a Roman citizen, unheard

and uncondemned. These prosecutions appeared full as

ridiculous to the people, as the author of them. Their

attention, however, was totally engrossed by the violence

of the distemper, which was still encreasing, and fright­

ful prodigies, such as the news, that houses in the coun­

try were frequently demolished by repeated shocks of an

earthquake. Wherefore, they had recourse to prayer, IB

which the people followed the duumvirs. '.,

The plague rages with still greater fury, when C. Ici-

lius, for the seconJ time, and L. Virginius, were consuls,

and threatened such desolation in town and country, that

so far from making excursions for the sake of plunder, a

foreign war was never so much as hinted either in the

-senate or the forum. The Fidenates however, who had  
at first kept themselves in the mountains, towns, and for­

tified places, were tempted now to make a descent upon

