CHAP. 2. . ROMAN HISTORY. 10?

number of that order, which had suffered greatly from

the king's butcheries, he drafted the principal of the

Equestrian order, to make the number of the fathers

three hundred. Hence, it is said, arose the distinction

ef fathers and conscript fathers; when they were called

to the senate, they who were added to the list to make

up the new senate, being called conscript. It is impos­

sible to conceive how much this measure contributed to

the unanimity, and mutual friendship of senate and peo­

ple.

CHAP. II.

Constrains Tarquinius Collatinus, on suspicion of an attach­

ment to the Tarquins, to resign the consulship, and leave

Rome.

IMMEDIATELY after these regulations they turned

their attention to matters of religion, and as some part of

public worship had belonged to the regal function, that

the want of kings might not be felt in this respect, they

created a magistrate for the purpose, and gave him the

title of king of sacred things. This office they made sub­

ordinate to the pontificate, that the specious title might

no way obstruct their liberty, which had now become

their principal concern: and I am not certain, but their

zeal in securing it, even in matters of very little moment,

carried them too far. For the very name of the other

consul, to whose conduct they could have no objection

besides, became odious to the state. They reflected,

"That habit had made it constititutional in the Tarquins

"to affect sovereign power. That this had originated

"in Priscus, whom Servius Tullius had indeed succeed-

"ed, but what then? During his whole reign, was not

"Tarquin the proud claiming an exclusive right, though

"he saw another in possession, and at last, by proceed-

"ings the most villainous and violent, did he not seize

on the supreme power, as the hereditary domain of his

family? Tarquin the proud is banished, it is true; but

is not the supreme authority vested in Tarquin of Col-

Iatia? The Tarquins cannot exist in a private station

—it is morally impossible ;—there is a harshness :i»

the very name,—it will never chime with liberty."

