TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK III.

i . - j

"slaves ami outlaws. Shall they, to whom the gods are

"not sacred, have the impudence to insist after this, that

"their persons are sacred and mviolable? And, do you

"flatter yourselves, that covered as you are with crimes,

"hoth betbre gods and men, that you shall pass your

"bill this year? By all that is sacred, if you even itffer

"to prefer it, the day in which 1 was chosen consul, will

"prove more unfortunate, than that on which the re-

"public lost Valerius. But my colleague and I have

"taken our measures; and first of all, we are to march

'the legions against the ^Equi and Volsci. How it

'comes about, I cannot say, but the gods are ever more

favourable to us in war than in peace.—What would

have been the consequence, had it transpired among

these nations that the capitol was taken by exiles?

However, it is better to form suspicions of what might

have happened, when all is over, than to put it to the

•" test by actual experiment."

CHAP. XX.

. • •

The Senate encouraged, and the people depressed.

vigorous a discourse qnite stunned the people. The

senate pulled -up their spirits, and began to think that

the republic was restored. The other consul, a better

assessor than principal, easily suffered his colleague to.

take the lead in this weighty business, .but claimed to

himself a share in the execution, which appertained his

office as consul. The tribunes treated all these me­

naces as idle vapouring, asking with an air of contempt,

"Where the consuls would get the army they meant

"to lead out, for they might be assured, they would

"not be suffered to make levies." "\Ve.have occasion

"for none," replied Quinctius, " the citizens, when

"they took up arms to recover the capitol, all swore to

"Valerius, not to lay them down without the consuls

"permission : wherefore, we strictly enjoin every sol-

"dier, who took that oath, to appear in amis'to-morrow,

"at Ihe lake of Rcgillus." The tribunes cavilled, al-

ledging, " That the oath did not bind the soldiers to

"his obedience, who was then only'a prirate gentleman,

