134 TITUS LIVIUS* BOOK II.

lance. Tarquin, to avoid the charge of so terrible an

.enemy, fell back into a battalion of his men: and whilst

Valerius pursued him wit.li inconsiderate ardour amopg

the exiles, he was run through the body by on* of them;

and the wound of ihe rider havmg no impression on the

horse's career, the Roman fell breathless to the ground,

with his arms above him.

Posthumius the dictator, seeing the fall of this brave

man, and the bold and rapid movement of the exiles,

before whom his troops were giving way, gave the signal

to his own cohort, a set of brave fellows, which he kept

about .his person as body-guards, to treat every Roman

soldier, who should attempt to run away, as an enemy.

The Romans fmding iheir danger the same in trtmt as

in rear, returned to the charge, and restored the battle.

The dictator** cohort, who had not been engaged before,

now, with fresh vigour and courage, fell upon the wea­

ried exiles and cut them to pieces. Here the principal

officers on each side engaged a second time.

The Latin general, seeing the exiles just on the point

of being surrounded by the dictator, flew to -the front

with some companies of the .corps-de-reserve. Titus

Hermimus, the lieutenant-general, observing the move­

ment of this corps, and Mamilius at tlieir head, distin­

guished from the rest, by his dress and arms, he charg­

ed him with a toice so much superior to the general of

the horse, .that at the last push lie laid him dead with

his lance. But whitst lie- was intent upon taking the

spoit-, he received a wound himself with a javelin from

the eniifloy: and though he was carried back to the

camp vu t nous, he expired under the surgeon's hands a

moment after. %

Then the dictator flew to the horse, beseeching them

to alight and relieve the foot, wearied out with fighting.

They instantly obeyed; and having dismounted, flew to

the van, covering those in the front rarrks with their

round bucklers. 'This ga^e new spirits <o the foot, see­

ing the young nobility ser-vi-ngon a level wit-h themselves,

and sharing the same dangers. The 'La\ms, being thus

repulsed and struck with terror, retreated. The cavalry

remounted, the better to pursue the enemy j and the in­

fantry also followed.

