CHAPJ 63. ROMAN HISTORY. 295

from their allies, as in the camp at the Algidus, but the

booty which had been taken from themselves, in ravag­

ing their own lands.

For both these victories, gained over diffefeiHeneroieSj

the senate, out of a grudge to the consuls, decreed only

one day of supplication and public thanksgiving; but

the people, by their own authority, acquitted thejnselves

of the same duty, the day following, with more pomp

and solemnity, and with a much greater concourse of

people, than the day before. The consuls, by concert,

came to Rome, the one on the first, the othef on the se­

cond of these days, and assembled^the senate in the Cam­

pus Martius, where they were rendering an account of

the success of the. campaign. The principal senators

complained, that they were assembled in the midst of the

soldiers, on purpose to over-awe them; and the consuls,

to save reflections, adjourned it to the Flaminian Mea­

dows, "where a temple of Apollo now stands, aml at that

time called the Circus Apollinaris. Here they were re­

fused a triumph, by almost the unanimous voice of tin;

senate; upon which, L. Icilius the tribune, carried it be­

fore the people. Many of the senators appeared on the

side of opposition, but none more warmly than C. Clau^

iiios, who exclaimed against it to the following purpose:

It is not over the'enemy, but overthe senate, that the

consuls would triumph : it is for a gratification of some

signal service done the tribune, and not an honourable

reward of their bravery, that they sue for. To submit

the merit of a triumph to the judgment of the people,

had no precedent, as that had always been a preroga­

tive of the senate alone. The privileges of that high

order had never been abridged, even by their kings.

Why then should the tribunes pretend^ to engross all

power to themselves, even to the excluding a council

of state? In short, the state will never be at peace, nov

enjoy liberty, till the two orders forbear to encroach

upon the rights and privileges of each other." Many

more of the old senators spoke to the same effect, but the

tribunes unanimously agreed to the motion. This was

the first triumph voted by the people, without a

of the senate.

