CHAP. 48. ROMAN HISTORY. . m

"of his brother, Q. Fabius, and the republic for the loss

"of one of its parents, he could not think of accepting

"the laurel, defaced with public, as well as private

"grief." . , ,

. The refusal of a triumph did him more honour than

any triumph could have done; so true it is, that a proper

neglect of glory sometimes considerably exalts it. His

first care was to pay the last honours to his brother and

his colleague: he pronounced their funeral orations him­

self, and set the glorious actions of both in the fullest

light ; by which means, the generous praises he bestow­

ed, reflected in a very great degree upon himself. Agree­

able to a plan he laid down to himself, in the beginning

of his consulship, of bringing about a reconciliation be­

tween the senate and people, he distributed the wounded

soldiers among the houses of the senators to be cured,

and most into those of the Fabii, and they were drest no

where else with so much care. From that date, the

Fabii became popular, but by methods entirely consistent

with, and salutary to the commonwealth.

CHAP. XLVIII.

Proposal of the Fabian Family.

J.N consequence of this agreeable reverse, Caeso Fabius

is chosen consul, with T. Virginins, as much by the

good will of the populace, as the interest of the senate 5

and make a point of it) before he entered upon levies,

wars, or any other public business, that the hopes of con­

cord, which begun already to be conceived, should be

nourished, so as the senate and people might rjuickly

come to a perfect understanding. For this purpose, in

the beginning of the new year, he made a motion, that

before any tribune should have it in his power to revive

the question about the Agrarian law, the senate should*

in its own right, begin the division of the land taken

from the enemy among the people, with all the impar­

ttality in their power. For nothing was more just than

that these people shoutd have it, by whose blood and

toil it had been purchased. The fathers would not agree

to the motion 5 nay, some of them complained, that the

