CHAP. 59. ROMAN HISTORY. 193

encourage the work, every thing slackened that instant.

When he was present, all held dpwn their heads, and as

he passed them, they muttered curses against him: his

haughty soul, till now, proof against the popular odium,

began to be sometimes affected. Having spent all his

ill-nature upon the soldiers t6 no purpose, he said the

army had heen corrupted by the centurions, whom, in

derision, he sometimes called tribunes of the people, and

sometimes Voleros.

CHAP. LIX.

Appius decimates his army for cowardice.

A HE Volsci had information of every thing that pas­

sed in the camp, for which reason they pressed the Ro­

mans mote closely, expecting their army would behave

to Appius, as they had done before to Caeso Fabius. But

their hatred to Appius, was much more inveterate than

to Fabius: For the army under Fabius had only resolv­

ed not to conquer, hut they carried matters farther, and

resolved to be conquered. The moment they were led

on to battle, they shamefully fled back to their camp,

and did not stop till they saw the Volscians ready to

force their entrenchments, and making prodigious havock

on their rear. Then it was, that they were obliged to

fight, to drive the exulting enemy from their lines. But

it was evident, .they meant no more than to save the

camp. To some of them, their defeat and disgrace gave

pleasure.

Notwithstanding all this, the ferocity of Appius' spirit

continued inflexible; and being determined to chastise

the whole army without mercy, he summoned an assem­

bly. The lieutenant-generals and Tribunes, made haste

to wait on him, and cautioned him, not to make an un­

seasonable experiment of his authority, because its whole

force depended on the consent of those who obey; that

in general, the soldiers refused to attend the assembly,

and many of them insisted, that he should decamp from

the territories of the Volsci. That the victorious enemy,

•had a very little before, not only advanced to the gates

of the camp, but made an attack upon their lines; and

'

