358 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK IV.

and, in the mean time, that he had only to think of the

royal combat, the royal spoils of Romulus, and Jupiter

Feretrius, in the time of action.

The armies charged each other with great ardour on

both sides. The Romans, exasperated to-the highest de­

gree, insulted their enemies, with the opprobrious names

of villainous Fidenates, felonious Vejentes, truce-break­

ers, the cruel murderers of their ambassadors, the inhu­

man butchers of the Roman colony,' perfidious allies,

dastardly enemies: and thus gave full vent to their in­

dignation in words, as well as actions.l,

CHAP. XXXIII.

Defeat of the Vejentes, and Fidenates.

JL HEY had already begun to give way upon the first

charge, when the gates of Fidtnae, on a sudden, flew

open, and a strange kind of army sallied out, till that

moment, never seen nor heard of. A huge multitude,

armed with fire, and blazing all over with the flames of

lighted torches, ran furiously against their enemies with

a kmd of enthusiastic rage; and by this new mode of

fighting, put the Romans in some confusion, Then the

dictator, to animate the baitle, having given the signal

to the general of the horse, and called down Quiuctius

from the heights, he flew in person to the left wing,

which, terrified at the appearance of a conflagration, ra­

ther than a battle, had begun to draw back from the

flames, and cried out with an audible voice, ' Will you

then be driven from your ground, with nothing but

smoke, like a swarm of bees. ami fly before an unarm­

ed enemy? Will you uot extinguish these flames by

your swords? If you are to fight with fire, and not the

sword; will not each of s'ou, for his own part, wrest

these torches from ihe enemy, and turn them against

themselves? Go, remember the Roman name, and

your own valour, as well as the gallantry of your an­

cestors; turn these flames against the enemy's capital,

and destroy Fideive by its own fires, which yon have

not been able to conciliate by all your favours. The

blood of your ambassadors and colony, and the depre­

