CW..59. ROMAN HISTORY. , 39?

A.

CHAP. LIX.

Anxur taken and plundered by the Soldiers, who aft

appointed pay by a decree of the Senate.

J.N the mean time, the military tribunes resolved to lead

an army against the Volsci. Only Cn. Cornelius was

left at Home. The other three, fmding that the Volsci

had not encamped, and did not seem as if they would

hazard a battle, divided their forces into three bodies,

and laid waste the country on different sides. Valerius

roarched to Antium, and Cornelius to Ecetrse, pillaging

the houses and country all the way, to amuse the Volsci.

But Fabius, without stopping to plunder, marched di­

rectly to lay srege to Anxmy the principal object of the'

expedition. This was .that Anxur, which was after­

wards called Terracina. It was situated above a marsh,

whence Fabius made a feint of carrying on his attack.

Four cohorts were sent round, under the command of C.

Servilius Ahala, to take possession of an eminence wnich

overlooked the city: From this eminence, where the

town was not defended, they made an attack upon the

walls, with a prodigious clamour and noise, which quite

confounded those who defended the lower part of the

city against-Fabius, and gave him an opportunity unob­

served to prepare for a scalade. In a moment every

corner was crowded with enemies: and for some time up­

on the walls, there was a great slaughter among those

who fled, as well as those who fought, and among the

armed and unarmed without distinction. Whereforei

the conquered having no hopes of quarter, even should

they surrender, were driven by necessity to renew the

fight, when all of a sudden it was published aloud, that

none but such as were found in arms had any thing to

fear, which determined the.whole multitude to lay down

their arms, and surrender at discretion.

Two thousand five hundred were made prisoners; but

the rest of the booty Fabius would not sufter to be touch­

ed, till his colleagues should come up, representing to his'

army, that they had also contributed their share in the

taking of Anxur, in so far as they had prevented the

other cities from coming to its relief. When they arriv«

S .

