CHAP. 67. ROMAN HISTORY. 299

Titus Quinctius Capitblinus a fourth time, and Agrip-

pa Furius weie then made consuls, who found no sedi­

tion at home, nor war abroad; but Rome was threaten­

ed with both. The torrent of discord could be no long-

.er stemmed, the tribunes and people being so much ex­

asperated against the senate, that the assemblies resound­

ed every day with accusations agamst some one or other

of that order. On the first rumour of these domestic

broils, the 2E.ym and Volsci, as if'they had been the

signal of war, took arms. Their chiefs, prompted by

the love of plunder, persuaded them, " That the people

"had thrown off all authority, and that the levies could

"noteven now be made, which had been appointed two

*' years before. That it was for this very reason, an army  
"had not been sent against them: the vigour of their

"discipline had now degenerated into licentiousness, and

"Rome was no longer considered as the native country,

"common to both orders, and the resentment and re-

"venge they formerly practised against other nations,

"they now turned against one another. Now, now was

"the time to extirpate these wolves, whilst they were

"tearing one another."

Having joined their forces, the first ravaged the coun­

try of the Latins,. and meeting with no resistance, ani­

mated by the authors of the war, who were exulting with

joy, they advanced to the very walls of Rome plunder­

ing the country, on the side next the /Esquiline gate,

and laying waste all before them m the face of the city

by way of insult. ^ Then driving off their booty with.

impunity, they returned to Corbio in good order, when

Qninctius called an assembly of the people, where he

spoke to the following effect:

CHAP. LXVII.

Speech of Qninctitts.

T-' ...

HOUGH I can charge myself, O Romans, with no

* crime, by me committed, it is with the utmost shame  
'and confusion that I appear in your assembly. You

'have seen it,—posterity will know it,—That in the

'fourth consulship of Titus Quinctius, the jEqui and

