282 , .TJTUS LIVIUS' BOOK III.

transacted in an assembly of the people, in the Flami-

nian meadows, now the Flaminian circus.

y,V . CHAP. LV.

;,.;,. . , 'Popular laws introduced by the new consuls.

LUCIUS VALERIUS and M. Horatio, were theo

elected consuls, by an inter-rex, and immediately en-

• tered upon the duties of their office. The popular ad­

ministration of these consuls, though it did no hurt, gave

no small offence to the Patricians, who considered every

precaution which was taken to secure the liberty of the

people, as a derogation of their prerogative. In the

first place, wherea's it was a disputable point in law,

whether the senators were amenable to .the decrees of

the Commons; the consuls now passed a law in the co-

reitia by centuries, ordaining that whatever the com-

ijions should enact in ithe comitia by tribes, should be

Vmdiug on the whole body of the people, by which law,

the bills of the tribunes were armed with a very dan­

gerous weapon. After this, thev revived the other con­

sular law, concerning the right of appeal, the chief pillar

of their liberty, which had been overturned by the de­

cemvirs; but, for the time coming, gave it new force by

an appendix: " Prohibiting the future creation of any

"magistrate, from whom there should be no appeal, and

"whoever should attempt it, might be put to death with

"impunity, or even a prosecution, on that account."

The people being thus sufficiently secured by the right

of appeal, on the one hand, and the protection ef their

tribunes on the other; that the persons of the tribunes

might be sacred and inviolable, they revived some ani

cient ceremonies, now almost forgot. And, that they

might not only have religion for their defence, but an

expiess law in their favour, they enacted, " That who-

"ever should maltreat the tribunes of the people, ^Ediles

"and judges, or decemvirs, his head should be devoted

"to Jupiter, and his family exposed to sale, at the tem-

"pie of Ceres, Liber, and Libera." The lawyers con­

tend, that by this law, no man's person is rendered sa­

cred; but that the man who does any of them a manifest

