CHAP. 27. ROMAN HISTORY. 441'

territory about it, provoked them at length to come out.

Their tear, however, did not suffer them to advance far.

They encamped about a mile from the town. The only

security, and that not a slight one, upon which they de-'

pended, was the difficulty of approaching them, through

rough and craggy Ways, through narrow defiles, and

over steep rocks. Cnmilius pressed a peasant for a guide,

and decamping in the dead of night, shewed himself

by the morning's dawn, on a ground that overlooked

them. The Romans intrenched themselves in three di­

visions; the remainder of the army standing under arms,

ready to engage: whilst the enemy attempted to ob­

struct the warks, they were routed and put to flight.

Such was the consternation of the Falisci, that they ran

past their camp, which was in their way, with great pre­

cipitation, to the town.

The list of the killed and wounded, before the fugi*

tives could get within their gates, was numerous. The

camp was taken, and the whole spoil given up to thp

quaestors, much to the dissatisfaction of the soldiers, but

they were kept in order by strict discipline. The same

virtue for which they hated him, they could not help ad-

'miring. After this victory, he invested the town and

surrounded it with lines. The townsmen sometimes, as

they found an opportunity, sallied out, and had slight

skirmishes with the Roman guards,spinning oul the time,

with little difference as to their hopes on either side.

For the town was better supplied with corn and other

provisions than the besiegers, having taken care to fill

their magazines before hand: and, in all probability, the

siege of Falerii would have cost them as much time and

trouble as that of Veii had done, had not the fortune of

the Roman general, and a new instance which he exhi­

bited of his well known abilities in military affairs, has­

tened on the victory.

CHAP. XXVII.

Villainy of a Schoolmaster. Generosity of Camillm. Its

effects on the Falisci.

IT was a custom among the Falisci, to make the same

person both tutor and companion to their children, and

