CHAP, 58. ROMAN HISTORY. 395

bius Vibulanus, and C. Servilius Ahala. The last was

rewarded by being contmued in his office, both in regard

of his other virtues, and the favour lie had lately acquir­

ed by his singular moderation.

CHAP. LV1II.

The people refuse their assent to a war with the Vejentcs.

J. HAT year, the truce with the Vejentes being ex­

pired, heralds and commissioners were dispatched to de­

mand satisfaction for injuries sustained. These heralds

were met on the way, as they were approaching the

marches, by an embassy from Veii. The embassy re­

quested that they would proceed no farther, till they

had an audience from the senate of Rome. The min­

isters of the Vejentes obtained from the senate, that since

their state laboured under all the calamities of civil dis­

sensions, that satisfaction should'be demanded of them..

So far were they from taking advantage of the misfor­

tunes of others to promote (heir own interest.

At this time the Romans met with a disaster in the

country of the Volsci, in the loss of their garrison-at Ver-

rugo, Where a little time was of such consequence, that

the garrison who were besieged by the Volsci, and had

implored assistance, might have been"relieved, had they

been reinforced in time. The army sent for this purpose

.came only in time to retaliate on the enemy just as

.they had put the Roman garrison to the sword, and dis­

persed themselves with a design to plunder. The senate

was more to blame in not hastening the troops, than the

tribunes, because they were told that the garrison made

a vigorous defence; never reflecting, that no courage

whatever, can .exceed the bounds of human force. These

brave fellows 'sold their lives dear; and after their fall

were severely revenged.

The following year had for military tribunes, the two

Cornelii Cossi, P. and Cn.'Numerius, Fabius Ambustus

and L. Valerius Potitus, when a motion was made to

chastise the Vejentes for the insolence of their senate in

ordering the Roman ambassadors to be told, when they

were demanding restitution, that if they Hid not imine­

