CHAP. 14. ftOMAN HISTORY! 2-23

rigorously exacted of the father; so that having sold the

better part of his estate, he lived for some time, like an

exile, in a retired and solitary cottage, on the other side

of the Tiber.

CHAP. XIV.

The young Nobility, by their complaisance, get the better

of the Tribunes.

J. HIS trial and promulgation of the law, kept the

whole city employed, for there was no foreign war to

disturb them. The tribunes, as if they had really ob­

tained a victory, concluded, that now, the Patricians be-

ing effectually intimidated, by the banishment of Caeso,

that they were at last secure of getting the bill passed;

and, thai the elder senators, having withdrawn them­

selves, in a great measure from the administration, seem­

ed to yield to them all authority in the state.

The young nobility, especially the late companions

of Caeso, without any diminution of their courage, be­

came still more incensed against the plebeians. But in

one respect, they were much improved, for they had

learned to manage their fury with more caution. The

moment the law was proposed, after the banishment of

CaEso, being quite prepared, and supported by a great

number of their clients, whenever the tribunes furnished:

them with an excuse for violence, by attempting to re­

move them from the assembly, they attacked them in

such a manner, that no one of the assailants could be

singled out as the author, to incur the odium or the ho­

nour. The people complained, that instead of one Caeso,

they had now to straggle with a thousand.

In the intermediate days, when the law was not in

question, no men were more composed or complaisant,

than these young nobles. They addressed the commons.

with the greatest shew of affability, entered into the most

familiar conversation with them, inviting them to their

houses, assembling with them in the forum, and in other

matters, suffering the tribunes to hold their plebeian

councils, without the least interruption. Neither in pub­

lic^ nor in private, did they discover any rancour, ex-

