849- . TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK III.

demned, which exasperated the senators prodigiously.

Ronnlius was fined in 10,000 asses, and Veturius in

V5.000 brass asses. Notwithstanding this example the

succeeding consuls abated nothing of iheir usual activity,

but swore, that were they also to be condemned, they

'would never suffer the people and their demagogues to

carry the law.

The tribunes then dropping their bill, which had been

so often tabled, that it \yas now worn to rags ^ and as­

suming a milder tone than hitherto, when addressing the

senators, requested, " that they would now put aa end

"to all contention, and since Plebeian laws were disa-

"greeable to them, that they .would suffer legislator?,

"partly Patricians and partly Plebeians, to be created,.

"for establishing laws for the common benefit, and cotn-

"mon security of all ranks, in point of liberty." The

senators made no other objection to this proposal, but the

admission of Plebeians into the number of the legislators.

When therefore they were agreed upon having taws, the

next point to be settled was the nomination of those to

be put in commission to make them. Spurius Post-

humius Albus, A. Manilas, P. Sulpitiul Camerinus were

commissioned and sent to Athens, to copy the celebrated

laws of Solon, and to learn the statutes, usages, and laws

of the other states of Greece.

CHAP. XXXII.

The Commissioners from Greece returned, and the Deccm*

•mm proposed for compiling the new laws. A. R. 300.

.l HE Romans had no longer war to disturb them all

this year, nor in the following consulship of P. Horatius

and S. Quinctilius, which was still more remarkable for

the constant taciturnity of the tribunes, occasioned by

the deputation to Athens, and their expectation of fo­

reign laws; add to this, that they were terribly afflicted

with famine and pestilence, equally destructive to man

and beast. The country became a solitude; constant

burials thinned the city; and many families, some of

them of the first distinction, were always in mourning.

Ser. Cornelius, high priest of Romulus, died of the

