CHAP. 40. ROMAN HISTORY. 170

"cerned in it, so that the state may be at no charge in

"men, or money, upon that score." The offer was ac足

cepted with great acknowledgments; aud ihe consul

left the house, and retired home, accompamed by a

number of his clan, who stood waiting in the porch, till

they should know the resolution of the senate. They

were ordered to rendezvous the next day in amis, at the

consul's gate, and each of them departed to. his own

house accordingly. ,

CHAP. XLIX.

Tlit Fabii leave the city to keep the Vejentet in awe, who

sue for peace.

J. HE news immediately spread over the whole city.

Every body admired, every body extolled the Fabii to

the skies. That one single family should take upon

them the burden of the state ; that the war with the Ve-

jentes should be carried on at the expence, and by the

arms of private persons, was an act of generosity never

heard of before. Were there two more such families in

Rome, the one might take upon them the war againsl

the Volsci, and the other agamst the JSqui, whilst the

. cornmomveali h would remain quiet, and all the neigh足

bouring nations be added to its domain.

The next day, the Fabii appeared all accoutered as

they had been ordered. When the consul came out in

'his military dress, he saw his whole clan draw.i up in

the court before his house, Tmd being received into the

middle of tliem, commanded them to march. Never

did an army, so few in number, and so highly distinguish足

ed with the praises and admiration of all, march through

the city. Three hundred and six heroes, all Patricians,

all of the same family, of whom, not one but might be

judged worthy of commanding an army, left the city,

threatening destruction to Veii, by means of their in足

trinsic power alone. They were followed by a crowd of

their friends and clients, animated with the same spirit

and zeal, and actuated only by great and noble views.

Others excited, by public concern, and transported

with esteem and admiration, cried out, " Go, brave men,

