33* TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK IV-

all, who is this Maelius? For, though neither nobility of

birth, nor dignity of office, nor even personal merit,

ought to open a way to the tyranny, yet Claudius Cas-

sius and the rest, at the time they aspired to so crimi­

nal an elevation, were sustained by their consulships,

their decemvirates, the honours of their ancestors, as

well as their own, and the splendour of their families.

But for Sp. Maelins, to whose wishes "rather than his

hopes, the office of tribune might have become an ob­

ject; a victualler, who had amassed a fortune from the

.corn trade, to have carried his speculations so high, as

to think of purchasing the liberty of Roman citizens

for a morsel of brer.d; that a people victorious over all

their neighbours, would subject themselves to slavery,

for the temptation of a dinner; as if the Romans would

have put up with a king, whom they would scarce

have admitted to the rank of a senator; to be invested

with the authority, and adorned'with the ensigns of

Romulus their founder, who was descended of the

gods, and at his death received into their number, was

folly to an extravagant pitch, full as much as a crime.

It was not sufficient that he had expiated his guilt with

his blood ; th'e house and walls wherein such a mail

attempt had been projected, ought to be demolished,

and all his effects confiscated, as having been intended

to be laid out in the purchase of regal power: and'that

therefore he ordered the quaetors to expose these goods

at vendue, and lodge the proceeds in the treasury.'

CHAP. XVI.

Mctlius' house demolished, and his effects confiscated.

.LiIS house was.instantly ordered to be demolished;

and that th'e place on which it stood might be a monu­

ment of the disappointment of his criminal hopes, it

was called ./Esquimaelium. L. Minucius had the ho-

nourto be presented with an ox with gilt horns, without

the gate that leads to Ostia; to which the people made

no objection, because he distributed Maelius' corn among

them at an ass the bushel. Some authors affirm, that

Minucius went over from the Patricians to the Plebeians,

