AP. 35. ffCMAN tflSTORY. '453

Setting out with a numerous train of hone- and foot,

came first 10 the coumry ot Tiicastini (a). They were

on/sifter opposed by the Alps, which seemed to them

.passable; and no wonder, since there is no certain

idetico that ever they had been crossed by mortal,

iless we are inclined to give .credit to the stories con-

- uing Hercules.

Whilst the Gauls were confined by the height of these- .

lountains, and were looking about them for a way lead-

ig to another world, over the tops of these mountains,

'hich reached to heaven, they were detained by a re-

gious scruple: they were informed that a strange peo'*

ile were out in quest of a settlement, and were opposed

iy the Salyes (b); it was the Massilians, who had sailed

rom Phocaea, in Asia Minor. The Gauls considering

11 IB'as an omen of their own fortune, assisted them in

"unifying a place where they first landed, which was

naturally defended by surrounding woods. The Gauls

pursued their route over the pathless Alps, by the Tau-

rinian forest(c); and having defeated an army of Tuscans,

near the river Ticin, they were informed that the coun­

try where they were encamped was called Insubria,

(now the Milanese;) a name, given also to a canton of

Autun. There, pursuing their good fortune, they built.

a city which they called Mediolanum (now Milan.).

CHAP. XXXV.

-. .

;' 7n continuation.

/YFrER that* ariother body of Caenomani (tf) under

the conduct of Elitovius, following the paths of the for­

mer, passed the Alps by the same forest, with the as­

sistance of Bellovisus, and settled in those places, which

the Libici then possessed, where now we find the cities

Brixia (e) and Verona (/). These again were followed

by the Saluvii, who dwelt near the ancient nation of the

La3vi (g), and tne Ligures (A), and settled upon the banks

(a) St. Pol Trois-Chatteaux, in Danphiny. (4) The coast of

Provence. (c) It stood at the foot the Alps Cottiie.

(d) A people about Brescia. (e) Now Brescia. (/) Or,

Cremona. (g) Inhabitants of Pavia and Novarra, (A) 1o- . ,

habiUnts on the banks of the Loire.

