20 TITUS LIVIUS' . BOOK I.

rity from the female line, under pretence of doing ho­

nour to Rhea Sylvia, Numitbr's daughter, he got her

admitted a vestal virgin, which condemned her to per­

petual virginity.

- I I !.•

CHAP. IV.

«

Rhea Sylvia with child to Mars. Romulus and Remus born.

JjUT, if I am not mistaken, we must look for the

origin of so extraordinary a city, and the foundation of

an empire, in power inferior only to that of the gods,

in the records of fate. The vestal was surprised, forced,

and delivered of twins; whom, either because she really

thought so, or because a god was a more honourable

cloak for her offence, she fathered upon Mars. But

neither gods nor men screened her from the cruelty of

the king : the vestal was put in close confmement; and

the infants were ordered to be thrown into the Tiber,

where the current was most rapid. \ By the interposition

of some divinity, the river had, at that time, overflowed

its banks; upon which the waters stood diffused in still

pools, which rendered the channel quite inaccessible.

They who were charged with the execution of the orders,

thinking the water, however still, would be sufficient to

drown the infants, laid them down in the nearest pool,

where now stands the Ruminalis ficus *; formerly, by

tradition, the ficus Romularis, concluding, that they had

now fairly done their duty.

The country was, at that time, a vast wilderness: and,

it is said, that after the water had subsided and left

the trough, or skift, in which the infants had been ex­

posed, upon dry ground, a thirsty she-wolf coming down

from the neighbouring mountains, was led to the place

by their cries, and bended with so much complacency

to suckle them, that she was found by the king's shepherd

gently licking them with her tongue. It is said the

shepherd's name was Faustulus, and that he brought

* fii some copies we find Viciis Ruminalis, which appears to be  
the true reading, for it is hardly probable that a fig-tree in Ro­

mulus' time, would be standing in the days of I.ivy.

