194 TITUS LIVIUS' Book II.

hoarded tip. Peace and plenty soon produced dissipa­

tion; and now when they had no disturbance abroad,

they began to revive their old contentions at borne.

The tribunes set the populace in a ferment, by their

favourite topic, the Agrarian law. They inflamed them

against the senators in the opposition; and in this, they

not only pointed at the whole body, but at individuals

also. Q. Confidius and T. Genucius, who revived the

plea of the Agrarian law, at this time cited T, Menenius

to take his trial. He was charged with the loss of the

garrison at Cremera, when his camp lay but a small

distance from it. They condemned him, although the

fathers had interested themselves, no less for him, than

they had done for Coriolanus, and the popularity of his

father Agrippa, not yet totally forgot. The tribunes

restricted his punishment to a fine; for though they had

sentenced him to die, after his condemnation, they only

fined him in two thousand asses of brass.* This cost

him his life: for, it is said, that being unable to bear the

disgrace, and the grief it occasioned, he soon fell a vic­

tim to a distemper, brought on him by it.

Another senator, Sp. Servilius, was also impeached,

immediately on the expiry of his office, in the consul­

ship of C. Nantius and Publius Valerius; the tribunes

L. Caedicius and T. Statius, having, in the beginning of

the year, appointed him a day for his trial. He did not,

like Menenius, by himself, or the fathers, descend to

make mean supplications to the people; but confiding

in his own innocence and personal interest, he boldly

opposed himself to all the attacks of the tribunes.

The charge against him, was the action with the Etru­

rians at the Janiculum. But, being a man of a daring

spirit, he was as intrepid before their tribunal, as he

used to be on a day of action, confuting in a bold speech,

both tribunes and commons, upbraiding them with the

condemnation and death of Menenius, by the good offi­

ces of whose father, the populace were brought back to

the city, and enjoyed these laws and those magistrates,

the ministers now of their illiberal prosecutions; and

thus by his bold and determined behaviour, outbraved

* Fire poundi sterling.

