CHAP. 35. ROMAN HISTORY. 631

been magnified, which is not uncommon, by those who

were fond of,the empty title of a naval victory.

A,

CHAP. XXXV.

Celebration of games. Complaints of the Tribunes.

L. SEMPRONIUS ATTRATINUS, Lucius Quinc-

tius Cmcinnatus, L. Furius Medullinus, and L. Horatius

Barbatus, were elected military tribunes, with consular

power, for the ensuing year. The Vejeutes obtained a

truce for twenty years, and the /Equi for three only,

though they had insisted for a longer term. The city

now was at rest from civil dissensions'. The fotlowing

year, which was marked neither by a foreign war, nor

domestic disturbances, was, however, rendered famous by

the games which had been vowed in time of war, the

,preparations for them made by the military tribunes,

and the vast concourse of the neighbouring people. The

tribunes with consular power, were Ap. Claudius Crassus,

Sp. Nautius Rutilus, L. Sergius Fide'nas, Sextus Julius

Julus. What enhanced the pleasure of the entertain­

ment to the strangers who had come, with the consent of

their respective stales, to be spectators, was the kind and

engaging manner in which they were treated.

After the celebration of these games, the tribunes

made seditious harangues to the people, reproaching

them severely, ' For their blind and stupid admiration

'of those whom, at bottom, they hated, which kept them

• voluntarily in eternal slavery; that they not only durst

• not aspire to the hope of obtaining the consulship with

• the Patricians, but could not even think of themselves

'or their friends, in the nomination of military tribunes,

• in which they had an equal right with the senate. It

'was no longer a wonder, that nobody gave himself

• trouble about the interests of the people; for who would'

'expose himself to danger and fatigue, where neither

'honour nor profit was to be expected ? There was nothing

'on earth, but men would attempt, if their rewards were

-• proportioned to their endeavours. It was a thing, there-

'fore, neither to be expected nor desired, that any tri-

• bune of the people should plunge himself headlong in-

