TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK V.

by an oath, and marched with their armies to Veii, when

least expected. They happened to attack that quarter of

the camp where Mauius Sergius commanded, and caus­

ed the greatest terror and dismay; for the Romans were

persuaded that all'Etruria was up in arms, and bad al­

ready arrived in prodigious numbers. The same opinion

prevailed among the besieged in the city, and encourag­

ed them to make a sally.—Thus was the Roman camp

assaulted on both sides, and whilst they ran up and dovru,

charging here and there, they could neither keep back

the Vi-jeute,« within their fortifications, nor defend their

own lines, so as to repel the enemy on the outside.

The only resource they had, was in the hopes of as--

sistance from the greater camp, as some of the legions

might make head against the Capenates and Fah'sci,.

whilst others withstood ihe sallies of the townsmen; but

Virgimus, between whom and Sergius there was a secret

misunderstanding, had the command of that camp. When

he was told, that most part of their redoubts were at­

tacked, their lines broke through, and the enemy ad­

vancing on both sides, he kept his troops under arrni,

saying at the same time, that if there was any need of

assistance, his colleague would certainly .send him word.

The arrogance of the one, was equalled by the obsti­

nacy of the other, who scorned to ask-assistance from one

he hated, and chose rather to be defeated by the enemy,

than be obliged to his fellow eitizeji for victory. For a

considerable time, the troops, thus charged on both sides,

suffered exceedingly; at last having abandoned their

works, a very few escaped to the grand camp, the great­

est part, with Sergius himself, having made the best of

their way to Rome. As he laid the whole blame on hw

colleague, Virginius was sent for, and the command

given to their lieutenants during their absence. The

affair was laid before the senate, when the two colleagues

ran into invectives against each other. Few of the >«-:!i-

tors consulted the public interest upon this occasion, bat

stood up in defence of one or other of the delinquents, as

private friendship or faxour.determined them.

