450 TITUS LIVIUS' Book V.

tian lands, every where, without meeting with the least

opposition; till at length; the Volsinians, who were hearti­

ly tired of the war, obtained a truce for twenty years,

on condition of replacing whatever they had taken from

the people of Rome, and of being at the expence of one

year's pay to the army.

This year too, one Ca;dicius, a man of low rank, told

the tribunes, that he heard a miraculous voice in the

New Street, above the temple of Vesta, where there is •

now a chapel, which pronounced distinctly, ' Go, tell

* the magistrates, the Gauls draw near.' The man's  
meanness, as it is the way of the world, brought the

warning into contempt. Moreover, that nation was re­

mote, and consequently little known. But not only were

the warnings from the gods despised on this occasion,

but Rome, pushed headlong by the fates to destruction,

had also deprived herself, in the banishment of Camillas,

of every human aid. This great man having had a day

appointed, by L. Apuleius, tribune of the people, to an­

swer to an accusation, in relation to the spoils of Veii,

when he was in deep affliction for the loss of his son, a

promising youth, he called a meeting in his house, of his

kindred and clients, which comprehended a great part of

the commons; and when he had sounded them with re­

spect to the charge laid against him, and found by their

answers that they could not acquit him, though they

would most cheerfully contribute to his fine, be rather

chose to banish himself from Rome; praying the immortal

gods, ' That if he had suffered this injury without rea-

'son, his ungrateful country might soon have reason to

* regret his absence.' He was condemned in absence,  
in 15,000 asses of brass.* - . - • -

CHAP. XXXIII.

Tii

Digression relative to the Gauls. A. R. 362.

HUS was oae citizen driven into- exile, who, had he

remained at Rome, would in all probability, have saved

the city from being taken. As the fatal-stroke was fast

approaching, ambassadors came from Clusium to soliciv.

