408 . TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK V.

tion towers*, galleries-l-, mantaletsj, and all the other

engines used in sieges? After we have bestowed so

much labour, and brought our works to such perfec­

tion; say, do you think it would be prudent to aban­

don them now, that we may go the same round of

sweat and labour to replace them at the opening of

the summer campaign? Is it not much more easy to

defend the works already constructed, to push on the

siege with vigour and firmness, till we accomplish. our

designs? It cannot be a matter of long standing, if

we go on without interruption, and do not ourselves

frustrate our hopes, by our own delays and remissness.

I only speak of the labour we must undergo, and the

time we must lose. But this is not all. By protracting

the war, we expose ourselves to a much a greater dar*-

ger. Do we sit down without the least concern, whilst

the states of Etruria meet so frequently, to deliberate

on sending aid to Veii? As matters now stand, they

are disgusted with the Vejentes, they hate them, and

will not interpose for their relief. Nay, for them, we

may take" Veii when we can; but, who can.divine,"if

we intermit our operations, that they will be of the

same mind some time hence? Only give them a little

respite, and you will see how their embassies will be

reiterated and redoubled. The circumstance of esta­

blishing monarchy at Veii, which alone gives umbrage

to the Etrurians, may change in an instant, either by

the general consent of the state, to reinstate them into

favour with the Etrurians, or by a voluntary resigna­

tion in the king himself, who may not be willing that

his sovereignty should interfere with the good of his

country. Only consider seriously, the train "of evils

* They were made of wood, to move on four, or more wheels,  
placed within them so as not to be seen. They consisted of ten or

more stories, as occasion required, and ctosety floored. They con­

tained the cranes, scaling-ladders, t*'c. and brought them up to

the walls.

•)• These were made of rafters, and were eight feet high, seven

broad, and sixteen tong. They were roofed with ptanks,inii hur­

dles ; their sides were wickered v. hii twigs, and covered with raw

bides. They moved on secret wheels, like the towers.

t They moved also on secret wheels, but theirroofs and fronts

were eloped; they were used io digging or fitling up trenches, le­

vetting and bringing up the battering rams to the walls.

