•228 TITUS LmiJS* BOOK 111

"might now command them to take arms against Va-

"lerius the consul ; and he would not hesitate to act by

"the tribunes, as the founder of his family had done by

"the kings."

Matters seemed now to be in that train, that nothing

but the utmost violence would have been the issue, when

a sedition of the Romans would have been exhibited as a

spectacle to the enemy. The tribunes could not proceed

in passing the bill, nor could the consul march against

the capitol, till night came on and suspended the dispute.

During the night, fear of the armed citizens, who were

at the consuls devotion, kept the tribunes quiet. Wtrere-

fore, when these Daemons of discord were out of the way,

the senators went round among the people, and mixing

with them in their crowds, entered into conversation with

them suitable to the times: conjuring them, "To take

"care how they plunged the Republic into this extre-

"mity of danger.—That the contest now w.as not be-

"tween the Patricians and Plebeians, 'but that both alike,

"the citadel of Rome, the temples of their gods, the tu-

"telar gods of the state, the domestic gods of every citi-

"zen, were abandoned to their enemies/'—Whilst the

senators were thus employed in bringing the multitude

to reason in the forum, the consuls in the mean time,

posted guards at the gates and wall?, to prevent any sur­

prize from the Sabines and Vejentes.

CHAP. XVIII.

O'

Kindness of (he Tusculeins. The Capitol relieved, but

Valerius killed.

_L HAT very night, the news of taking the citadel/sur­

prising the capitol, and of the confusion that raged at

Rome reached to Tusculum, where Mamilius at that

time presided as dictator. He immediately convened the

senate-, introduced the messengers, and warmly remon­

strated, "That they ought not to wait till Rome should

"demand their assistance in form j that the danger and

"hazard, their confederate gods, and the sacred obliga-

"tion of treaties, required the utmost dispatch. The gods

"could never give them a better opportunity of evkien-

