482 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK V.

• tomed to survey, and yonder sky, under which I was

«. born and bred, came crowding into my mind. Let

'these my fellow-citizens, by their attractive charm?,

• rather engage you to remain iu your own place of

'abode, than after you have abandoned them, to regret

'your loss, when it will be too late. .

'It was not without reason, that gods and men se-

'lected this spot for the purpose of building a city,

< where we have most wholesome hills, and a conve-

'nient river for conveying the corns from the inland

• countries, and merchandize from the sea, which, by

'the bye, is near enough for all good purposes, and at

'the same time so remote, as to secure us against any

'attack from foreign fleets. It lies in the centre of SH

• the provinces of Italy, the only situation capable of

• promoting the increase of a city. Can we have any

'stronger proof of this, than the rapidity of its progress?

• This, my friends, is only the three hundred and sixty-

• fifth year of our city; so long have yot been waging

'war with many nations of a long standing, and after all,

'neither the Volsci, in conjunction with the 7K<ni i. in-

'possession of so many strong cities, nay not even all

• Ktruria, so powerful both by sea and land, and estend-

'ing the whole breadth of Italy, between two seas, have

'been a match for you in war. What reason have you

'then, or rather, what dcemon possesses you, who, know

'how you have been here, for trying new experiments?

'You may indeed carry your bravery elsewhere, but

« can you carry thither that fortune, which is unalter-

'ably annexed to this particular spot? Here is the Capi-

• tol, where a human head was found long ago, and it

'was declared concerning it, that the place where it was

'found, should be the seat of universal empire, the capi-

'tal of the world. It was here too, when the Capitol

'was cleared of all other divinities, that Youth and Ter-

'minus refused to be removed. Here are the fires of

• V.estaj.here are the celestial bucklers; in one word;

• it is to your continuance here, that the gods have an-

'nexed your prosperity, power, and glory.' •

