288 TITUS UVIUS' BOOK III.

compassion on him and his daughter; and to have re­

gard to the prayers , not of the Claudian family, which

had exercised a cruel tyranny over them, but of Vir­

ginia's relations, and three tribunes, who being created

for the protection of the people, were now imploring

their aid and protection."

These tears prevailed. Appius in consequence having

Iost all hopes, put an end to his own life, before the day

appointed for his trial arrived. Sp. Oppins, who after

Appius, was of all the decemvirs most detesied, was pro­

secuted soon after, at the instance of Numitorius, as an

accomplice of Appius in the affair of Virginia, because

he was in the city when that infamous judgment was

passed. But a crime charged personally against himself

cat deeper in his condemnation, than his conniving at

Appius's baseness. A witness was produced who had

served twenty-seven years, and had been eight times ho­

noured with military rewards, which.he had with him.—

Stripping off his robe, he exposed his shoulders which

had been torn with rods by the decemvirs' lictors, offering

to submit himself to the same treatment again, if Oppius

could assign any good reason for his cruelty. Oppius

was.also sent to prison, and before the day of his trial, he

was no more. The estates of both were confiscated by

the tribunes. The rest of the decemvirs were banished,

and their estates confiscated. Claudius, who hail claimed

Virginia, was condemned on the day appointed for bis

trial; but Virginius remitted his execution, and convert­

ed the sentence into banishment, when he retired to Ti-

bur.—Thus the manes of Virginia, more happy after her

death than in her life, having wandered through so many

houses in pursuit of just vengeance, were at length ap­

peased, by the punishment of ull the guilty.

CHAP. LIX.

Seasonable interposition of Duillus. The Fathers dissatis­

fied with the popularity of the consuls.

.l HE senators were now under no small apprehensions,

seeing the tribunes had become as sanguinary as the de­

cemvirs had been before, when Duilius, who was orre

