CHAP. 58. ROMAN HISTORY. • 287

brass, and hung np in the forum. According to some

historians, it was the ffidiles, who, at the instance of the

tribunes, performed that office.

CHAP. LV1II.

Application in favour of Appius fruitless.—Oppius also

tried, and both die in prison. The rest of the Decemvirs

banished.

C/AIUS CLAUDIUS, having always disliked the prin­

ciples of the Decemvirs, and particularly detested the

pride and insolence of his nephew, had withdrawn to

Kegillum, his native country j but though he was now

very old, he returned to Rome, to assist him with all his

credit at this dangerous conjuncture, however much he

had been a declared enemy of his vices; and for that

purpose appeared in the forum in a mourning habit, at­

tended by his whole family and a great number of clients,

soliciting the favour of every one he met, conjuring

them " not to entail on the Claudian family a disgrace,

"which would cause them to be considered by posterity

"as citizens that merited chains and prisons.—iSot to snFr

"fer a man, whose memory posterity ought to revere.

"as the legislator of Rome, and the founder of their civil

"rights, to lie in a dungeon with thieves and robbers:

"but rather to suffer their just indignation to give wcy

-" to the more natural feelings of compassion which arise  
"from reflection; and rather forgive one of the Claudii,

"for the sake of so many of the name as interceded for

"him, than out of hatred to one, to reject the prayers of

"so many.—At the same time he begged leave to as-

"sure.them, that this solicitation on his own part was

"not the result of• a reconciliation with, or partiality

"for the delinquent, but merely on account of his re-

"lation, and honour of the Claudian name: and as they

"had now recovered their liberty by their bravery, they

"should also strengthen the union between the two or-

"ders of the state, by their clemency."

Many, who had no regard for Appius, were affected

with the intreaties of this venerable old man; but Vir-

ginius, on the other hand, " begged them rather to hav*

