CHAP. 18. ROMAN HISTORY. 337

whose abilities were equal to the charge, left (he Ro­

man dominions, and retired beyond the Anio, possessing

themselves of the eminences which lie between the Anio

and Fidenae; nor did they venture down upon the plains,

before they were joined by the legions of the Falisci.

The Etrunans4hea encamped before the walls of Fidenae,

when the Roman dictator posted himself at a small dis­

tance from them, upon the banks of the two rivers,

near their confluence, having drawn lines through the

intermediate space, as far as the ground was capable of

fortification. Tbe next day he drew out his army to

battle, but the enemy were not unanimous in their opi.

nioos.

CHAP. XVIII.

Battle with Tolumnius. ,""

1 HE Falisci, being at a distance from their own coun­

try, growing weary of the fatigues of war, and having

sufficient confidence in their strength, were clear for

fighting: but the Vejentes and Fidenates thought their

only chance lay in protracting the war. Tolumnius,

although he approved of the sentiments of his own sub­

jects, that the Falisci might not be disgusted with the

service so far from home, gave out that he would lead

them to battle next day. The appearance of hesitation

in the enemy, gave new spirits to the dictator and his

Romans; and the next day, whilst the soldiers threaten­

ed to storm the city and their camp, if they did not give

them battle, both armies were drawn out to a plain be­

tween the two. camps.

Tolumnius being superior in numbers, detached a

party behind the mountains, to attack the Roman camp,

during the heat of the engagement. Of the confederate

army this was the disposition: The Vejentes were posted

on the right, the Falisci on the left, and the Fidenates

iu the centre. On the right wing of the Romans the

dictator was opposed to the Falisd, Quintius Capitoli-

nus to the Vejentes on the left, and the master of the

horse advanced with his cavalry in the centre.

For a little, the armies remained without the least

