332 TITUS LIVIUS* BOOK IV.

him with deserved praises, whilst the consul still persist­

ed in his motion; he acquiesced at length, praying to

the gods, that the public weal might suffer no loss or re­

proach, at so dangerous a conjuncture, through his infir­

mities. He was instantly declared dictator by the consul,

and named G. Servilius-Ahala, general of Hie horse.

CHAP. XIV.

Servilius cuts off Mxlius.

J.N EXT day, when he had posted guards in al! proper

places of the city, he went out into the forum, where an

appearance so unexpected and unusual soon attracted the

attention of the populace. While Ma;Iius' adherents,

and himself too, saw plainly that the power of that su­

preme magistrate was wholly pointed against themselves

such as were ignorant of their designs to subvert the con­

stitution, were asking one another, what insurrection,

what unexpected war, had made it necessary to create a

dictator, aod to invest Quinctius, at upwards of fourscore,

with that supreme office.

Servilius, master of the horse, having been sent by

the dictator to Mceiius( tells him, that he must wait up­

on the dictator. Mselius, in great disorder, asked what

lie wanted? To make your defence, replied Servilius, in

answer to an indictment laid against you, by Minucius,

before the senate, Upon that, Maelius made for a

crowd of his adherents, and looking round him, began

to make the best 'of his way. By order of the general of

the horse, an officer arrested him, but he was rescued by

the people about him; and whilst he fled, he implored

the protection of the people, crying out that the senate

had concerted a plan for his destruction, because of his

generosity to the people, who, he begged might stand

by him, now that his life was at stake; nor suffer him

to be murdered in their presence. Servilius Ahalacame

up with him, as lie was pronouncing these words, and

laid him dead at his feet. Then, all sprinkled with the

blood of the slain,. encircled with a band of Patrician

youth, he presented himself before the dictator, and tells

him that he had cited Mselius to appear before him ; but

