CHAP. 36. ROMAN HISTORV. 453

CHAP. XXXVI.

- , •\-.'.. ' ." I

Fatal error of the Fabii.

T. • . : ,. '. . j.

HE embassy in itself had nothing irritating, but it

was delivered in a tone, -and with an air which breathed

more of the Gaulic fierceness, than of Roman politeness.

Having delivered their commission in a council of the

Gauls they had the following return: 'That the name of

the Romans.was but iittle known to them, though they

had no tioubt of their bravery, since the Clusians had

thought proper to apply to them in their danger. That

as thjey had chose rather to employ the methods of pa­

cification, than their arms, in defence of their allies,

they, on their side, should not reject the offered peace,

provided the Clusians, who had more land than they

could well manage, would give up a part of it to the Gauls,

who needed it. Without this condition, all proposals

for peace were inadmissible. That they would be glad

to receive their answer in presence of the Roman am­

bassadors; and in case of a refusal, they would give

them battle in presence of the same Romans, that they

might be able to say, upoo their return, how much the

Gauls are superior to all mankind in bravery.'

Upon this, the ambassadors demanded to know, ' By

what right they could insist on having land from its

possessors, and if not granted, to threaten them with

war? Besides, what business had they in Tuscany?

We carry our right,' replied they fiercely, ' in the points

of our swords; the brave are lords of the world.' Both

sides were now highly exasperated, and flew to their arms,

and began the action. There, the ambassadors, the fates

HOW pushing on the destruction .of Rome, in direct con­

tradiction to the law of nations, took up arms. Nor could

this remain a secret, when three warriors of the greatest

distinction and valour of all the Roman youth, fought at

the head of the Etrurians: so conspicuously did the

bravery of the?e strangers distinguish them from the

Clusians. Moreover, Q. Fabius, riding up before the

first line, and meeting one of the Gaulic commanders

who was rushing furiously upon the van of the Etrurians,

ran him through the side with his lance, and kilted him

