2?»- TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK III.

they had consigned them in a city, where neither the

honour of women, nor public liberty was sate?

Rome saw herself now changed into a frightful soli­

tude, and not a creature to be seen in the forum, but

such as were worn out with years. When the fathers,

after they were assembled in senate, observed nobody in

the forum, several besides Valerius and Horatius, boldly

remonstrated to this effect: " What is it you wait for,

"venerable fathers? II the decemvirs will persist in their

"obstinacy, will you suffer all to go to perdition? And

"pray, Messieurs Decemvirs, what is that sovereignty,

"of which you are so tenacious?—a sovereignty over

empty houses and bare walls? Do not you blush to

see, that all the citizens in the forum scarce equal the

number of your lictors? Should the enemy come to

attack us, what could you dor Should the people, see­

ing us so unconcerned about their removal, advance

"hither in arms against you, what would be the conse-

"quence ?, Are you determined to make the period of

"your authority, of the same date with the ruin of the

"republic? Is it not evident, that you must either have

"no people, or they must have tribunes? We shall

"sooner give up our Patrician magistrates, than they

"their Plebeian. They extorted from our fathers that

Plebeian magistracy, of which, at that time, they

had not experienced the benefit; and it is not very

probable, now that they have tasted the sweets of it,

they will ever consent to part with it; especially as

your government has been such, as to make them feel

"the want of protection."

Discourses of this kind saluting the ears of the decem­

virs from all sides, they were overcome by so unanimous*

a concurrence, and declared, that since it must be so,

they should be wholly governed by the' senate. But

there was one thing they begged leave to request,xwhich

was not unworthy of attention, that they might not be

exposed as victims to the rage of their enemies, for it

concerned them nearly, not to accustom the people in

the punishment of the decemvirs, to dip their hands in

the blood of the Patricians.' •

