28 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK I.

of their own existence, having no partners at home,

nor the means of procuring (hem from their neighbours.

For this reason, Romulus, with the advice of the fathers,

sent deputies through the neighbouring states, to solicit

their alliance and connexion, by intermarrying with his

new subjecis: and urging, "That cities, like other

"things, rose from very small beginnings;—That those

"who were assisted by the gods, and their own indus-

"try, have in time become great and opulent.—That

"they might be very sensible, that the gods had coun-

"tenanced the building of Rome; and that in point of

"virtuous industry, the citizens would not be deficient.—

"That therefore, he hoped, as they themselves were

*• men, they would not refuse to mix their blood and fa-  
"milies with men like themselves." ,i.!

This embassy had a gracious reception nowhere, and

at the same time that they were held in the utmost con­

tempt, they were dreaded as a monster growing up in

the heart of their country, to devour them and their pos­

terity. They were therefore dismissed by most of the

neighbouring states, with this insulting question, " Whe-

"ther had they opened an asylum for female vagrants,

•" for such only would be suitable matches for them?"

The Roman youth were not a little piqued at this afl'ront,

and without doubt, began to meditate on a more violent

mode of courtship. To give them time and opportunity

for putting their designs in execution, Romulus, con­

cealing his chagrin, makes preparations for celebrating

solemn games in honour of Equestrian Neptune.* He

calls them Consualia ;f and orders them to be announ­

ced to all the cities around. They were celebrated with

all the pomp and magnificence they could contrive or

afford, that their splendour might not come short of the

popular expectations. Great crowds assembled, particu­

larly from the adjoining cities Caenina, Crusturninium,

and Antemnae.J even out of curiosity to see the new

* Because be is said to have raised the first house from the  
earth by a stroke of his Trident.

•(•From Consus, the go<\ of counsel, because this politic was

the effect of great deliberation.

J Towns near Rome, but their modern names little known.

