CHAP. IV. ROMAN HISTORY. 335

and that he was made the eleventh tribune, and by that

hieans quieted the tumult occasioned by the death of

Maelius. But it is hardly probable, that the fathers

would have suffered the number of tribunes to be aug­

mented, or allowed such a precedent to beset by one

of their own order; nor that the people, once a con­

cession had been made them, would tamely have given

it up again. But what proves the inscription on Minu-

cius'a statue to be entirely fictitious, is the law made a

few years before, whereby it is provided that the tri­

bunes could not choose a colleague by co-optation.

-D. Caecilius, Q. Junius, and Sextus Titinus were the  
only tribunes that opposed the law for conferring ho­

nours op Minucius, whom, or Servilius", they were con­

stantly accusing to the people, and complaining of the

unmerited fate of Maelius; and so carried that military

tribunes, in preference to consuls, should be elected for

. that year; being fully persuaded, if six military tribunes,

the number allowed by law, were elected, some of the

Plebeians, by promising to revenge the death of Mslius,

would be among the, number. However multiplied and

diversified the distractions of the city that year; no more

than three tribunes were elected with consular authority,

and among them too, L. Quintius, the son of that Cin-

cinnatus, in odium of whose dictatorship, the confusion

was projected. Marcus .SLtnilius, a man of singular

merit, was first in the nomination, Quintus second, and

L. Julius third.

CHAP. XVII.

Tlie Roman ambassadors murdered at Fidena.

JL/URING their administration, Frdenae, a Roman

colony revolted to Lars Tolumnius, king of the Ve-

jentes. This rebellion was attended with a crime of a

more heinous nature : For, by order of Tolumnius, they

put to death C. Fulcinius, Clcelius Tullus, Sp. Ancius,

and -L. Roscius, who had been commissioned by the

Romans to enquire into the reason of their conduct.

Some authors, in extenuation of the king's guilt, alledge,

that upon occasion of a lucky throw of the dice, some

