CHAP. 23. 'ROMAN HISTORY. 137

were so charmed with the honourable behaviour of the

Latins, that they sent home 6000 of their prisoners; re­

ferring to the- new magistrates to conclude a treaty with

them, a suit, which till that time hadxbeen almost con­

stantly refused. The Latins, however, exulted in what

they had done; and they who had advised to peace

were highly respected. They sent to the capitol, a crown

of gold, as an offering to Jupiter; and many of the pri­

soners who had been sent home to their relations, came

•in the retinue of the ambassadors who brought it. They

waited on those whose slaves they had been, and very

politely thanked them for their civilities and kindness

shewn them in their distress. Never, at any former

period, either in public or in private, had the Latins en­

deared themselves so much to the Republic of Rome.

CHAP. XXIII.

Disturbances at Rome on account of Usury. A. R. 259.

JtjUT the war with the Volsci was still impending; and

the city, divided within itself, was inflamed with civil

discord between the senate and people, which originat­

ed in the cruelties practised upon the debtors. They

complained bitterly, that they who fought abroad for li­

berty and extension of empire, should be seized and op­

pressed at home by their fellow-citizens: war to them was

more salutary than peace, and foreign enemies less inimi­

cal to the liberty of the populace than their countrymen.

This resentment, which naturally spread of itself, was

considerably inflamed by the unhappy circumstances of'

. a single person. An old man appeared in the forum, with

the testimonies about him of ail he had suffered; his

clothes were greasy and ragged, and his person made

still a more wretched figure, being feeble, pale, and ema­

ciated: a long beani, and .hair neglected and in disorder, .

completed the hideousness of his figure. Through all his

uncouth outside, he was however known, and out of com­

passion whispered about for a centurion, who had ac­

quired many military rewards by his valour.

la testimony of the gallantry of his behaviour on se­

veral occasions, he shewed the wounds cm his breast.

