CHAP. 16. ROMAN HISTORY. 225

tated with fear, ran precipitately into the forum, where

"to arms,—the enemy is in the city/' was the univer­

sal cry.-/. -

The'consuls, at a loss to determine, whether this sud­

den blow was struck by foreign or domestic foes, whether

it originated in the discontent and enmity of the com­

mons, or in a plot of the slaves, were equally afraid to

arm the Plebeians, and to leave them unarmed. They

endeavoured to settle the confusion, but their endeavours

sometimes only increased it. The multitude, struck with

consternation and affright, could not be brought under

•any government whatever. They however gave out

arms.tmt not to all indiscriminately, only to such as they

could confide in most; and x)f these only, such a number

as were sufficient, to guard every place against the at­

tacks of an enemy, of whom they had as yet no -idea.

Therefore, being totally ignorant, what enemy, or what

number they had to oppose, they passed the remainder

tif the night in great perplexity, posting guards wherever

they were thought necessary.

At. last day-light made the wished-for 'discoverv,

whence the war proceeded, and by whom it was conduct-

"ed. Appius Herdonius from the capitol proclaimed

liberty to the slaves, declaring, " That he had under-

"taken the cause of the miserable, to restore exiles, un-

"justly banished, to their country; and to deliver slaves

"from the oppressive yoke. That he had rather the

*' Roman people would do this uncompelled; but if he  
"saw no hopes of relief from that quarter, he would

"have recourse to the /Equi and Volsci, and leave no-

"thing unattempted to effectuate his purpose."

CHAP. XVI.

Obstructions of the Tribunes. i

± HE mystery being now somewhat cleared up, the

consuls and senators, besides what was publicly threaten­

ed, became very uneasy with the apprehension, that

this enterprise had been concerted with the Vejentes and

Sabines; and whilst they had so many of the enemy

already in the xnty, the Sabine and Etrtirian legions

