220 /TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK III.

provoke this rash young nobleman. Many things that

had been said and done without consideration, by the

young nobility, were all charged'upon Caeso, who was

now become odious. Notwithstanding of which, he per­

sisted in his opposition to the law. ,

A Virginius was every now and then trumpeting to

the people, to this effect: " Are you not sensible, fellotft

"citizens, that you cannot retain Caeso, and carry the

"law you are so much set upon? But why do I rnen-

"tion the law? He is an enemy to your liberty, and

•" in pride, exceeds all the Tarquins put together. Only

"wait till he is made consul or dictator. You see w'rth

"what force and violence he lords it now, while only a

"private citizen." Many approved of the tribune's

speech, coirfpiaining, that they had been.roughly hand-

kd by him,. and urged the tribune, to strain every nerve

to bring him to condign punishment.

CHAP. XII.

Caio deprecates the wrath of the people.

JL HE day for the trial came, and the people in gene­

ral seemed to think, that their liberty depended on the

condemnation of Caeso. Urged, therefore, by necessity,

with much inward indignation, he went about soliciting

their favour one by one; his relations and friends, the

principal men of the-city, attending him. T. Quinc-

tius, who had been thrice consul, after recounting the

honours which he himself, and others of his family had

acquir-ed by their gallantry, affirmed, " That neither

the Quinctian name, nor even the whole Roman state,

had ever produced a more excellent genius, or a sol­

dier of more consummate bravery L—that he had

marked him a* the first soldier in the army, as he had

often-seen him" signalize himself, when engaged with

the enemy." Sp. Furius bore testimony, "That

when he was in the most dangerous situation, Quinctius

sent Caeso to his relief; and that his valour, upon that

critical occasion, was peculiarly essential to the pros­

perity of the state." Lucretius, one of the last year's

consuls, covered with fresh laurels, divided his "glory

with Caeso.; enumerating his combats, and glorious.

