350 TITUS LIVIUS' Book IV-

Albus, he mached himself with a part of his army,

fetching a small compass, to a place quite out of sight of

the action; from whence he might fall on the enemy's

rear, before they could be aware of his design. He left

the care of the.camp to Q. Sulpicius, one of his lieuten­

ants, and pat M. Fabius, another lieutenant, at the

head of a party of horse, with orders not to stir till day­

light, as it was difficult to manage horse in such a hurly-

burly by night.

.All that could be expected from the valour and con­

duct of the most able general, was performed by the

dictator. But, in one instance, be has a peculiar merit,

and appears in a glorious point of view. For, having

been informed for certain, that the enemy, in great

numbers, had left their own camp, with a view to attack

the consuls, from a motion of his own he dispatched

M. Geganius, with a select body of troops, to invest the

camp they had left. Geganius fell upon them, whilst

they were entirely taken up about the event of their as­

sault, and so totally regardless as to themselves, that they

had neither posted guards nor sentries, and had almost

made himself master of their camp, before they were

fully convinced that it was attacked. He then gave the

signal by raising smoke, as had been concerted; and

when it was observed by the dictator, he cried out, that

the enemy's camp was taken, and ordered it to be pub­

lished everywhere. »

CHAP. XXVIII.

B^

Battle with the iEqui and Vohci.

)Y this time day-light began to appear, when all

their operations were laid open. At the same time that

Fabius had charged whh his horse, the consul had made

a sally from the camp upon the enemy, by this time

quite dejected. The dictator, from another quarter,

falling upon their second line and corps-de-reserve, had

posted his victorious army quite round the enemy, who

were wheeling about to examine whence 'he confused

shouts and sudden commotions proceeded. Wherefore,

being now surrounded on all sides, and shut up in the

