420 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK V.

the tax to be collected, although they had so many armiei

to support, and their military affairs were in so successful

a train, that they were like to come to a conclusion, with足

out the etl'usion of blood. For the camp which bad been

lost before Veil, was recovered and secured by guards and

redoubts.. The tribunes, M. .Kmilius and Caeso Fabius,

commanded there. M. Furius led an army against the

Falisci, and Cu. Cornelius against the Capeuates, but

not an enemy appeared; however, they carried off a

considerable booty, and laid waste the country, by burn足

ing theiv villages and consuming their corn, without

.meddling with their towns, either to assault or besiege

them.

Having plundered the lands of the Volsci, they at*

tempted to take Anxur by storm, but as its situation was

high, they were disappointed, and began to turn the

siege into a blockade, by surrounding it with a moat and

rampart. The province of the Volsci had fallen to Va足

lerius Potitus. Whilst these military affairs were in this

train, an intestine division gave them much more'trouble

than all the foreign wars in which they were engaged.

As the tribunes would not suffer the tax to be levied, and

consequently no remittances having been made to the

commanders, the soldiers became importunate for their

pay, which almost had diffused the seditious sentiments

throughout the camp which raged in the city.

Whilst the people were in this passion with the fathers,

the tribunes of the people represented, that now was the

time for establishing their liberty, and transferring the

honours of the state from such wretches as Sergius and

Virginias, to bold and manly Plebeians. However, they

went no farther, than just to ascertain their right, by

electing one of their order, P. Licinius Calvus, to the

dignity of military tribune, with consular power: the

rest were all Patricians, viz. P. Maenius, L. Titinius,

P. Mselius, L. Furius Medullinus, and L. Publius

Volscus.

The people, as well as the man of their choice, were

really amazed that they had carried so great a point.

Licinius had never borne any public office before, only

he was an ancient senator, and now a very old man. ft

does pot appear from what motives he was pitched on

to be the first, and the pfoperest person to fill this ho足

