CHAP. 31. - ROMAN HISTORY. 247

no enemy in the field. The /Equi having put the gar­

rison of Corbio to the sword, and taken Ortona, were

attacked by Horatius at Alg.uus. Many of them fell

in the action, and the rest driven from the Algidus, and

the cities they had taken. Corbio was levelled with the

ground, because its inhabitants had betrayed the garri­

son. *

CHAP. XXXI.

Tlic consuls fined by the people. A code of latei proposed.

JV1. VALERIUS and Sp. Virginias succeed to the con­

sulship, when Rome enjoyed peace, both at home and

abroad; but the rainy season brought oh a scarcity of

provisions. A law was likewise passed for making mount

Aventine common. The same tribunes were re-chosen,

who, in the following year, when T- Romilius, and C.

Veturius were consuls, proposed the law in all their as­

semblies, declaring, they should be ashamed, now that

the number of their college had been doubled, if they

should be disappointed all the'two years of their tribune-

ship, as their predecessors had been for the five last years.

While the tribunes were wholly intent upon this matter,

an express arrived from Tuscnium, with the alarming ac­

counts, that the .ffiqui were already in the heart of their

country. The late noble exertions of that people in fa­

vour of Rome, challenged an immediate return; for which

reason both consuls were dispatched with an army, who

found the enemy, as usual, encamped at the Algidus.

There they were charged with such vigour, that above

70OO fell in the action, and the rest put to flight.

The spoils, which were considerable, were sold by the

consuls, and the proceeds put m the treasury, as it had

been totally drained. This measure was very unpopu­

lar in the army, and in the end furnished the tribunes

with materials for censuring the consuls before the peo­

ple. The moment they were out of office, both had a day

appointed for their trial, when Sp. Tarpeius and A.

Aterius were consuls. C. Claudius Cicero appeared as

prosecutor against Romilius, the ZEdile; L. Alienus,

against his colleague Veturius. They were both co»*

