CHAP. 7. ROMAN HISTORY. 35

answer them, which induced Hercules to turn back. As

he was advancing to the cows, Cacus attempted to stop

him with all the force he'could muster; but Hercules,

with a singte stroke oi his ciub, laid him breathless at

bis feet, whilst he vainly imptored the protection of the

shepherds.

At that time Eyaader, having fled from Peloponnesus,*

had the government of this country, more out of respect

to bis superior merit, than any legal investiture. He

was highly revered for his wonderful learning, a thing

quite uncommon among men who were ignorant of every

art] and still more for the supposed divinity of his mother

Carmenta, to whom before the coming of the Sybil-)-

into Italy, these nations, for her prophetic spirit, paid

great "veneration. This Evander was called upon by the

shepherds, who crowded in great consternation about

the stranger, and impeached him with open murder.

Having heard the crime, and the provocation fully

explained, and observing a certain dignity in the air of

Hercules, and his size rather above the human, he asked

him who he was? The moment his name, his father,

and his country were mentioned, " Hail, Hercules, (said

"he) son of Jupiter; my mother, a true prophetess,

". hath declared to me, that you will increase the num-

"ber of the celestials, and that to you an altarf shall,

"be dedicated here, which an empire, the most povt-er-

"ful upon earth, shall call the greatest-f Hercules

reaching him the hand of friendship, replied, "That he

"gladly accepted the omen, and would fulfil the plea-

"sure of the fates, by raising and consecrating an altar

"accordingly."

Thus, for the first time, an heifer being selected for

the purpose, the most beautiful in the whole collection,

a sacrifice was made to Hercules; the Potitii and Pinarii,

families of the first distinction in the country, performing

the service, and partaking of the entertainment. It

happened, however, that the Potitii were present at the

* Now the Morea.

f The Sybils were thought to have been divinely inspired, of

vhicb, the most considerabte were the Persian and Cumsan,

I It itood ib the Ox Market. ,

