CHAP. 6. ROMAN HISTORY. 319

'with whom he can neither share the public honours of

* the state, nor private alliance by marriage.'

CHAP. VI.

Military Tribunes of either order, proposed to supersede

Consuls.

HE consuls having also gone out to the assembly of

the people, from long speeches the parties now fell to

altercation. The tribune put the question, why a Plet

beian might not attain to the consulship? It was answer­

ed, perhaps with some truth, though to little purpose on

the present occasion, that no Plebeian had a right to the

auspices, for which reason the decemvirs had declared

such marriages void, as in a heterogeneous race, the

auspices might be rendered uncertain.

It is impossible to express the indignation of the peot

pip, when they heard that they were to be denied the

auspices, as men bateful to the immortal gods. And as

in their tribune they had a most intrepid cham.pion, and

were themselves no less determined, the fathers were at

last obliged to suffer the law concerning marriages to

pass; persuaded, that fronp this concession, the tribunes

would be induced to drop entirely the other bill respect­

ing the Plebeian consuls, or at least suspend it till the

conclusion of the war; and that the people, satisfied with

obtaining a repeal of the marriage-act, would cheerfully

agree to the levies. But as Canuleius' victory over the

fathers had raised his credit and influence among the

people to an extraordinary height, the other tribunes,

emulous of his glory, exerted all their influence to carry

the law they had proposed; and though the reports of

the impending war became every day more flagrant, they

still obstructed the levies. ^^

The consuls fmding that nothing effectual could be

concluded in the senate, by reason of the interruption

they met with from the tribunes, held meetings of the

nobility in their own houses; to whom it appeared evi­

dent, that matters were now come to that pass, that they

must yield the victory, either to the enemy abroad, or

to the people at home. Valerius and Horatius were the.

