yK\ TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK III.

CHAP. XLVU.

• The Opposition to the Decree.

VIRGINIUS arrived at Rome by break of day, where

lie was eagerly expected by the people, already assem­

bled in the forum. Virginias, clad in mourning, led his

daughter into the forum, in a tattered gown, accompa­

nied by several matrons, and many friends. As he pas­

sed along, he solicited the favour of all with an air of

dignity, that seemed to demand their assistance, rather

than to implore it. He told ilium, " That upon no oc­

casion, had he been backward in exposing himself to

danger, when the safety of their wives and children

required it; nor could any man in Rome, recount a

greater number of great and gallant actions than him­

self. But what did the noblest exertions signify to

save the city, if our tyrants exercise upon our children

at home, all the violence that can be dreaded in a city

taken by assault ?". He went round the assembly ha­

ranguing them to this purpose; and Icilius spoke to the

people in much the same strain. But the silent tears of

the women who accompanied them, spoke with more

feeling, than any words could express. In spite of all

which, Appius, who had steeled his heart, now rather

distracted with an extravagant madness, than overcome

with a spfter passion, mounted his tribunal. The plain­

tiff then remonstrating, " That sentence ought to have

"passed in his favopr the day before, had it not been

"out of complaisance to the people;" before he could

proceed, or Vfrginius make any answer, Appius inter­

fered. The preamble, w.ith which he opened his decree,

may be justly enough taken down by ancient authors;

but, as I can find none that appears even probable con­

sidering the unaccountable nature of the sentence itself,

I shall content myself with the bare words of the decree,

since so much is certain.

"He adjudged her to be a slave." The injustice of

this sentence, surprised and.confounded all present.—For

some time there was an universal silence. But when M-.

w.ent to seige Virginia, surrounded by a crowd

