CHAP. 33. ROMAN HISTORY. 65

CHAP. XXXIII.

The Latins conquered, and made free of the city.

X\NCUS having committed the care of religious mat­

ters to the Fiamens and other priests, and having levied

la new army, marched against Polytorium, and took it

by storm.

Then, following the example of his predecessors, in

adding to the population of the city, by adntitting the

conquered nations, he transported all the inhabitants to

Rome. And because all the ground about the Palatium

•had been assigned to the ancient Romans, that about the

capital and castle to the Sabines, and mount Caelius to

the Albans, the Aventine mount was appointed for the

new people. Soon after, another set from Tellini and

Ficana also taken, were stationed in the same quarter.

Polytorium suffered a new siege, some time after this,

having been a second time peopled by the Latins. For

this reason it was razed to the ground, that it might npt

be a place of refuge for the enemy.

After this, Medulla became the seat of the war, where

several battles were fought with various success, in which

neither party had much advantage; for the town was

defended by strong works, and an able garrison; and

the Latin army, being encamped in the open plain, had

several skirmishes with the Romans. At .last, Ancus

mustering all his force, for the first time, obtained a

complete victory, and returned to Rome with a consider­

able booty. On that occasion too, many thousands of

the Latins were received into the city, and accommodat-

.ed with. ground to build upon near the temple of Murcia,

in order thereby fo join the Aventine and Palatine hills.

Janiculum was also added, not for want of room, but lest

at any time it should become a lodgement to the enemy.

He thought proper alsp to join it to the city, not only by

a wall, but also, for the convenience of travelling, by .a

wooden brjdge; the first that was ever thrown over the

Tiber.

The Fossa Quiritium, which rendered the city less ac­

cessible from. the. lower grounds, was also the work of

- •./ • .• cJ i!' . • • .-. ••• •-.'..

