CHAP. 11. ROMAN HISTORY. 121

out the least hurt; ah exertion, that to posterity will ap­

pear rather matter of wonder, than of fact.

For such uncommon bravery, the public shewed every

mark of respect. A statue was erected for him in the

Comitium, and he got as much land as he could encircle

with a plough in one day. Nor were private families

less eager in expressing their gratitude than the public;

foi though the scarcity of provisions was great, yet every

one, in proportion to what he had in his family, saved

some part of his own allowance, as a gratuity to him.

CHAP. XI.

Porsenna turns the siege into a blockade.

A ORSENNA being repulsed in his first attempt, re­

solved to turn the siege into a blockade; wherefore,

havmg garrisoned the Janiculum, he encamped with

the main army upon a plain, along the banks of the

Tiber. Then having collected boats from all quarters,

to enable him to guard the river so effectually, that no

provisions could be conveyed to Rome, and at the same

time, to serve him as transports, when he should chuse,

upon occasion, to send foraging parties to one place after

another, on the other side of the river: in at short time,

he so harassed Uie country about the city, that the peo­

ple were not only obliged to remove every thing else,

but also to drive all their cattle into the city, nor durst

any body venture them without the gates.

The Etrurians were permitted to take these liberties,

not more through fear, than good policy; for the cpn-^

sul Valerius, watching his opportunity of falling on them

unexpectedly when a numerous party, and straggling

without order through the fields, he suffered smalt par­

ties to pass with impunity, reserving the weight of his

indignation for occasions more important.

Therefore to ensnare these ravagers, he ordered mul­

titudes of his own people, to drive out the cattle next

day, at the Equiline gate, which lay farthest from the

enemy, presuming they would get intelligence; because

it was hardly possible, that with the closeness of the

