CHAP. 17. ROMAN HISTORY. 227

"a subversion of the commonwealth, under the conduct

"and auspices of Herdonius? Has he, who had not suf-

"ficient influence to entice our slaves to join him, found

"the way to bring you over to his party? How! whilst

"the enemy are over our heads, do you order the peo-

"pie to lay down their arms, that they may make

"laws?" Then, addressing himself to the people,,he

continued, " If you should be under no concern for

"the city, and should you be quite insensible of your

"own danger, you ought at least to have some regard

"to the gods of your country, who are m the hands of

"the enemy. Jupiter, the most high, the most bene-

"volent, queen Juno, Minerva, and all the gods and

"goddesses are at this moment suffering a siege. Slaves

"are encamped round your tutelar gods. Do your pro-

"ceedings evince that you are in your senses? While

"so formidable an enemy is not only within our walls,

"but in the citadel, overlooking the forum, and place

"of our assemblies; yet we hold our assemblies with in-

"difference, and deliberate with as much unconcern, as

"in times of the greatest tranquillity. Ought we not

"rather^ Pa'ricians, -plebeians, consuls, tribunes, citi-

"zens, every man to take arms and lend their aid?

"Ought we not to fly to the capitol, to deliver and re-

"gain that august habitation of the almighty Jupiter?

"O thou, father Romulus, inspire thy descendants with

"the same gallant spirit which animated thee, when

"thou di«Ist formerly recover this citadel from the same

"Sabines, after they had obtained it by the power of

"goM. Move them to march the same way by which

"thou didst conduct thy army. As for me, I am ready

"as consul, to be the foremost in following thee, anrl

"tread thy paths, as far as a mortal man can follow a

"god." At the conclusion of his speech, he declared,

"That he would take arms, and called upon every Ro-

"man to do the same; protesting, if any one should

"dare to hinder them, that without regard to consular

"authority, tribunitian power, or the sacred laws them-

"seives, that whatever was his quality, or wheresoever

'' he should find him, he would treat him as an enemy

".to the state. That the tribunes, if they pleasedj since

- they had forbidden them to arm against Herdonius,

