398' TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK IV.

ed, the three armies plundered the city together, which

by a long train of prosperity, had now become opulent.

This liberality of the generals, began a reconciliation

between the people and the Patricians; but what com­

pleted it, was a decree of the senate, very seasonably

obtained by means of the whole Patricians, without so

much as a hint from the people or their tribunes, ordain­

ing the soldiers to be paid out of the treasury, whereas

.before they had served the state at their own expence.

iCHAP. LX.

Joy of the people on this occasion. Envy of the Tribwiei.

1 O circumstance, we are told, ever gave the people

a more sensible pleasure, than the news of this decree of

the senate. They ran in crowds from all quarters to

the senate-house, and taking the senators by the band

as they came out, called them fathers, in every sense of

the word: declaring, at the same time, that after such an

instance of goodness, there was not a single citizen, who

to" the last moment of his life, would not be ready to ex­

pose himself to every danger, for so generous and bene­

ficent a country. The people's satisfaction in this de-

,cree, did not only arise from the advantage it promised

them, in having their estates liable to no expence, whilst

.they were personally engaged in the service of the pub­

lic, but also because it was a voluntary deed of the se­

nate, neither thought of by their tribunes, nor such a de­

mand even surmised by themselves. It was this con­

sideration which augmented their joy, and enhanced the

^alue of the favour.

The tribunes of the people were the only persons who

•had no share in the general joy and harmony that reign­

ed all over the city on this occasion. 'They insisted,

'that this was a stroke in politics, which would not be

* agreeable to all the fathers, nor would they find their

* account in it so much as they imagined. That at first

* sight, it had a specious appearance, but experience  
M would shew it in a different point of view. For hoiv

* could the money be raised, but by imposing -a tax upon  
« individuals? It was plain, therefore, that the senate was

«• liberal at the expence of others. That though othen

