CHAP. 61. ROMAN HISTORY. 195

good understanding that subsisted between the general

and the army, the jEqui were afraid to shew themselves

in the field, and suffered their country to be ravaged at

pleasure, whence it followed, that the booty was more

considerable than they had taken from the ^Equi in any

former war; and it was all given to the soldiers, and with

it, the praises they merited, which gave them a pleasure

no less sensible, than more substantial rewards.

The army returned to Rome, with the warmest sen­

timents of regard to their general, and on his account,

in a great measure, to the whole order of the Patricians,

telling every body, that the senate had in their general,

given them a father: but in Appius, to the other army, a

cruel master.

In the course of this year, there was various success in

war, and violent commotions at home and abroad. It

was peculiarly memorable for the election of the tribunes

by tribes, a circumstance which derived its importance,

rather from-the victory gained over a violent opposition,

than any real advantage that attended it: for the Comitia

suffered more in point of dignity by exctuding the fa-

ihers from that assembly, than the power acquired by

the people, or lost by the senate, was really worth.

CHAP. LXI.

"Trial and death of Appius.

I ... VALERIUS and T. /Emilius were consuls the fol­

lowing year, when the commotions ran higher than ever,

both on account of the contests between the orders of the

senate, occasioned by the Agrarian law, and also on ac­

count of the trial of Appius, for which M. Duilius and C.

Sicinius appointed a day, because he opposed the law,

and supported the pretensions of the possessors of the

public lands, with the same violent and inflexible spirit,

as if he had been chosen consul for the third time.

Never was a criminal cited before the people, more

generally detested than he. To their tribunal he brought

with him all the grievances charged against his father,

as well as the crimes objected to himself; nor did the

Patricians, on any former occasion, interest themselves

