CHAP. 50. ROMAN HISTORY. 27*

baml of young Patricians, and having made way through

the crowd, ordered him to be carried to jail. But, by

this time, Icilius had not only a numerous populace about

him, but their patrons, L. Valerius and 3V1. Horatius at

their head ; who pushing away the lictor, told him, " If

"he had a legal action against Icilius, they would be

"bail to- defend him against the decemvir, who was

"only a private person; but, if he dared to use force,

"he would soon find the difference." This raised a

terrible tumult. The decemvir's lictor fell upon Va­

lerius and Horatius, and the mob broke his fasces. Appius

went up to the Rostra to harangue the people; Vaterius

and Horatius followed. When they spoke, the assembly

w«re all attention; but the decemvir could not be heard

for noise.

Matters were carried so high, by this .time, that Va­

lerius took upon him to order the lictors to be gone from

Appius, who being only a private person, had no title

to lictors. Appius, in the mean time, terrified for the

consequences, and in fear of his life, escaped, with his

head covered with his robe, unknown to the opposition,

into a house adjoining the forum. Sp. Oppius, from the

opposite side, rushed into the forum to support his col­

league. But there he saw his authority quite overpower­

ed. After much deliberation, and urged on all sides to

comply, at last, in much consternation, he ordered the

senate to be assembled. This step in a great measure

quieted the people, in hopes, that as many of the Patri­

cians seemed dissatisfied with the conduct of the decem­

virs, the senate would put an end to their authority. The

senate were not for exasperating the people: but they

thought particular care should be taken to prevent the

sedition which Virginius might raise in the army.

A.

CHAP. L.

Virginius' remonstrance in the camp. A Secession.

ACCORDINGLY some young Patricians were dis­

patched to the. camp, which was then upon mount Veci-

tiofi to acquamt the decemvirs, with the necessity of us­

ing every means to prevent a mutiny of the soldiers,

