CHAP. 42. ROMAN HISTORY.

CHAP. XLII.

Domestic broils. The jEqui and Volsci defeated. ,

.BUT the resentment of the people did not long sur­

vive Cassius. The charms of the Agrartan law, the pro-

moter of which they themselves had cut off, recurred

to their minds with double force. What added to these

impressions, was the rapacity of the fathers, who, aher

the defeat of the Volsci and jEqui that year, defrauded

them of the plunder; for all the perquisites arismg from

the war, were converted into money by the consul ta-

biud. and lodged in the exchequer. The whole Fabtan

family became odious to the people, on account ot the

last consul: The fathers, however, prevailed so tar, hat

Kaeso Fabius succeeded to the consulate, with L. flSmilHM.

The people still more unrated by this election, raised a

foreign war with their seditious behaviour at home.

This war gave a short respite to their civil commotion;

and the senate and people uniting under the conduct ot

jEmiiim, -ave a fatal blow to the jEqui and Volecr, who

had renewed the war. The enemy suffered more m

their flight, than they did in the battle; so warmly did-

the horse pursue them. .

The temple of 'Castor was dedicated upon the IJttt

day of July of that year.* It had been vowed durmg

the war with the Latins, by Posthumius the dictator,

whose son was created duumvir on purpose for its deo>

cation. That year too, the alluring impressions o the

Agrarian law were revived in the minds of the populace.

The tribunes of the people, by their exertions m favour

of this popular law, strove to ennoble their popular office.

The fathers, sensible that there was too much fire m the

spirit of the commons, even when they had no mduce­

ment to shew it, trembled at the thoughts of largesses,

as incitements to rashness. The consuls, at the head ot

the senate, showed themselves extremely keen m the op­

position; and prevailed not only for the present, but had

also the address to get M. Fabius, the brother of K»so,

* Anno Romse, 269.

