CHAP. 43. ROMAN HISTORY. 57

which the sons of Ancus had discovered against his pre­

decessor, he gave his two daughters in marriage to the

two young princes, Lucius and Aruns: yet this precau­

tion could not prevent the unalterable decrees of fate,

nor secure him against the envy attending a crown,

which was productive of the blackest treasons, and scenes

of the grossest barbarity, even in his own family.

Very seasonably for the present tranquillity, war was

undertaken against the Vejentes (the truce with them be­

ing now expired,) and the other states of Etruria. In

that war, fortune conspired, with his own native gallan­

try, to ennoble Tullius: for, having routed the enemy's

prodigious army, he returned to Rome, sovereign of the

affections of senate and people. After this, he sets about

the works of peace, which, of all others, are the most sa­

lutary: and "as Numa jtad^bgsiLjj^ .author of the reHgU

Ou£ jjojjtj^ofJR onjJe^Tfi at^post leTitymi g ht have reasonf5

mention Servms with respect, as author of the several or­

ders and ranks in the state, whereby the different de­

grees of dignity or fortune are ascertained, he instituted

the census; the effects of which were most salutary in a

state, that promised to arrive at such a pitch of greatness:

for by it the charges of peace and war were not levied

by the head as before, but in proportion to their estates

respectively. tHe then divided the people into classes'

and centuries, according to his census; a regulation very

propet"" both in peace and

CHAP. XLIII.

- * * *

He divides tlie people into classes and centuries.

V,yF those whose, fortune amounted to, or exceeded

100,000* asses of brass, he made up eighty centuries:

one half whereof were of the aged citizens, and one half

of the younger. These together were called the first

class. The design of the elder part was to have them aU-

ways at hand to guard the city; of the younger, to carry

arms abroad. The arms assigned them were a helmet, a

round shield, -boots, a coat of mail; all of brass. These

• •' • i • ««

: 18: 4d, •• -

