qpp. 65. I^OMAN HISTORY. 297

their disinterestedness, in having shown themselves to th«

last, the very reverse of the decemvirs; and then-pro­

ceeded to the election.

Afier five new tribunes had been chosen, the president

perceiving, that the other candidates would not be able

to engage a majority in their favour, because of the

busy opposition of his nine colleagues, dismissed the as­

sembly, without appointing another day to complete the

election: alledging that he had satisfied the lave, which

no where required that the whole number of tribunes

should be chosen at once, provided room was left for

completing the number: to those who had been chosen,

he gave authority to name their colleagues. Then he

read a copy of the act, which runs thus: " If I file a

bill for the election often tribunes of the people, and

the whole number should not be chosen on the day of

election, those nominated shall themselves fill up the

v,acant places, and the persons so chosen, shatl be

'deemed tribunes as legally elected as themselves."

Thus Duilius, continuing steady to the last, in maintain­

ing that the republic could not have fifteen tribunes,

defeated the ambitious views of his colleagues, and laid

down his office, equally dear to senate and people.

CHAP. LXV.

JJomestic broils. Depredations of the jEqui and Volsci.

JL HE new tribunes, in the choice of their colleagues,

paid great respect to the recommendation of the senate;

they even chose two Patricians, Sp. Tarpeius, and A.

'. Haterius, who had been consuls*. The fasces were now

transferred to L. Hermonius, and T. Virginius Ccelio-

moiuanu?, who being no great zealots in the cause of ei­

ther party, their government was entirely pacific.

L. Treboirus, one of the tribunes, being much dissa­

tisfied with the Patricians, alledging they had over-reach­

ed him, in the co-optation of the tribunes; when, at the

same time, he had. been betrayed by his colleagues, pro-

# An election of tribunes by the college, was said to be made by

co-optation.

