CHAP. 26. ROMAN HISTORY. 53

nearer Alba, and of the Curiatii towards Rome; but OB

different spots, where they respectively fell.

CHAP. XXVI.

Horatius airaigned and acquitted.

1JEFORE they left the ground, Mettus went up to Tul-

lu?, and in terms of the treaty, asked his commands. Tul-

lus orders him to keep the youth in arms, as, in case of

a war with the Vejentes, he might have occasion for

their assistance. After this both armies returned home.

Horatius marched at the head of the Romans, bearing

before him the triple spoils he had so gloriously obtained.

His sister, promised in marriage to one of the Curiatii,

came out to meet him at Porta Copena. Perceiving on

her brother's shoulder, a military cloak wrought with her

own hands, and presented to her future spouse, she tears

her hair, and sheds a torrent of tears, in mournful ac足

cents, calling upon her lover.now no more. The young

conqueror offended with his sister's lamentations, amidst

the public joy, and his triumph, stabs'herin the transport

of his passion, with these severe reproaches, " Go, unnn-

"natural sister; go to thy lover with thy unseasonable

"passion; thou who forgettest thy dead brothers, thy

"living brother and thy country. Thus let her perish,

"who shall ever dare to lament the death of an enemy

"to Rome."

To the senate and people of Rome, this seemed a ne足

farious deed; but the lustre of his recent victory plead足

ed 'strongly for the offender. He was dragged, however,

to stand his trial before the king; who to avoid passing

a sentence in so dismal and unpopular an affair, or or足

dering execution, after sentence should be pronounced,

having called an assembly of the people, " I appoint

"Duumvirs, (says he,) to try Horatius according to law.

"The law was of a horrible tenor. Let the Duumvirs

"judge of the felony; if the pannel appeal from their

"sentence, let his appeal be received: If their sentence

"be confirmed, let him be hood-winked, and hanged

"with a rope upon an accursed tree, having been first

"scourged, either within or without the Pomoerium."

