430 .' •x TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK V.

CHAP. XIX.

The Dictator Camillas raises an army, defeats the Falisci,

and curries on new worki at Veit.

|Y this time, the games and the Feria; Latinae w«re

renewed, the waters drained from the AI ban lake into

the fields, and the destruction of Veii at no great distance.

Wherefore, Furius Camillus, the general, for whom the

fates had reserved the destruction of Veii, and the pre­

servation of his country, was named dictator, who also

appointed P. Cornelius Scipio general of the horse.

The change of the general, in a moment gave a wonder­

ful turn to all their affairs. New hopes, new souls, seem­

ed to animate the whole bfidy of the republic, and fortune

seemed to have come over to the side of the city.

His first care was to punish those who had fled from

Veii in the sudden consternation, with all the strictness

of military discipline,. and thereby taught them, that an

enemy ought not to. be the principal object of terror to a

soldier.

Having fixed a.day for the levies, he in.the mean time

posted to Veii, in order to revive the courage of the

troops there, and then returned to Rome to raise a new

army. Nobody refused to enlist; foreigners too, the

youth of the Latins*and Hernici, offered their service,

and came accordingly, for which he thanked them in

full senate. When every thing was ready for taking the

field, the dictator, by order of the senate, made a vow to

celebrate the great games,* when Veii should be taken,

and to rebuild, and cledicate a-new, the temple of the

goddess Matnta,f which had formerly been dedicated

by king Servius Tulliujj^'Wherefore, leavmg the city

with his army, and thereby raising the expectation,, ra­

ther than the hopes of |he people, he fell in with the

Falisci and Capenates, in the territory ot Nepete.I

Every action of his was the result of prudence and reason,

* Those of the Circus.

f Juno, sister of Semele, aunt of Bacchus, and wife of Ath'-

nas, was so called at Rome.

t Ncpi.

