CHAP. U. ROMAN HISTORY. 369

* of the Roman army, but by the shouts and cries which  
he heard, he judged, that the action continued till

night. Considering the enemy's numbers, he did pot

believe it was possible to force a passage to the rising

ground which he had seized. That he knew not where

the army was, but he had reason to imagine, for the

preservation of the army, the consul had retired to some

place of greater safety than his, own camp, as he him­

self, in a case of necessity, had secured himself and fol­

lowers, by the natural strength of the ground he had

taken. That it was his own opinion,'the affairs of the

Volsci were in no better condition than, those of the

Romans; and that the darkness had concealed from

both parties, their own situation, and that of each

other.' He was then, at his request, that they would

detain him no longer, as he was quite exhausted with

the fatigue of his march, and the pain of his wounds,

dismissed with the applauses of all the people, for his

moderation, still more than for his valour and good con­

duct.

This scene was scarcely over, when the consul ap­

peared at the temple of Quies, in the Lavinian way.

Thither horses and carriages and other conveyances were

sent from the city, to take up the soldiers, quite spent

with the fatigue of the battle, and travelling all night.

A little after, the consul made his entry into the city,

and was not at greater pains to clear himself, with re­

spect to the late miscarriage, than to give Tempanius the

praises due to his merit.;

Whilst the state was afflicted, on account of their late

disaster, and highly dissatified with their generals, M.

Posthumius, who had been one of the military tribunes,

with consular power, that commanded at Veil, was im­

peached before, the people, and fined 16,000 asses of

brass.* Titus Quinciius, his colleague,. laid the whole

blame of that miscarriage upon Posihumius, who was

already condemned; and out of regard to his great ser-

vjces agai.ist the Volsci, when consul, under the dicta­

tor Posthumius Tubertus; and at Fidense, in quality of

lieutenant-general to Mamercus ^Emilius, another dicta-

* .£32:5:10.

