CHAP. 33. ROMAN HISTORY. 359

• dations made on your country,'require this at your

• hands.'

The dictator's orders set the whole army in motion.

Some of the torches that had been thrown, were re­

covered, some were wrested by force from the enemy,

so that on both sides they were armed with torches. The

general of the horse too charged on a plan entirely new.

He ordered the cavalry to draw tha bits out of the horses

mouths, and clapping spurs to his own, was the first to

drive full speed into the middle of the flames, whither

he was followed by the rest, driving at full gallop against

the enemy. A mixture of smoke and dust, raised by

themselves, carried off the glancing of the light from the

eyes both of the men and horses; nor had the appear­

ance which had confounded the men, the least impres­

sion on the horses: so that the cavalry, wherever they

went, beat down and trampled under foot aH before

them. Then a new shout was raised, which surprised

and attracted the attention of both armies, till the dicta­

tor cried out, « It is Quinctius, the lieutenant general,

'who, with the troops under his command, has attacked

• the enemy's rear:' and then with great cries pushed

the attack with greater vigour than ever. Whilst two

armies carrying on two different attacks, hemmed in and

pressed the Etrurians, in -front and in rear, so that they

could neither retire into their camp, nor effectuate their

escape to the mountains, whence a new enemy had come

down upon them; and everywhere, the greatest part of

the Vejentes fled with the utmost precipitation to the

Tiber, and all the Fidenates, who were yet left alive, to

their capital Fidenae.

Their flight and terror hurried them to certain death.

Some of the Vejentes were cut off upon the banks of

the river, others were pushed into the water, and car­

ried down by the stream: even those who could swirn,

sunk through weariness, wounds, and fear; so tfiat few,

out of a great number, made the other side.—The other

part of vhe confederates fled through the camp inio the

city, whither the Romans pursued them with great fury,

especially Quinctius, and those who had come down

with him from the heights, being still fresh, as having

only advanced towards the end of the battle.

