400 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK IV.

C. Valerius Potitus, for the third time, Manius Ser-

gius Fidenas, P. Cornelius Maluginensis, Cn. Cornelius

Cossus, C'-ESO Fabius Ambustus, and Sp. Nautius Rutilas<

a second time, were elected military tribunes with con­

sular power for this year. The Volsci gave them an op­

portunity of coming to an action wi-th them, betweeu

Ferentinum and Ecetra, in which the Romans bad the

advantage; after which, the military tribunes formed

the siege of Artena, a town belonging to the Voisci,

where the besieged having attempted a sally, were dri­

ven back to the city, with such precipitation, that the

Romans had an opportunity of entering with them pell

mell, and 'of taking every thing but the castle, into

which, as it was naturally strong, a body of armed men

had thrown themselves. Under this fortress many were

put to the sword, and many fell into the hands of the

victors. The fort itself was then besieged: but to storm

it would have been impracticable, being, for-the extent

of the place, sufficiently defended, and there could be no

hopes of a surrender, as all the corn in the public maga­

zines had been conveyed thither, before the town was

taken, so that at last, the Romans must have been so tir­

ed out as to have raised the siege, had not a slave be­

trayed the fort into their hands. The soldiers having-

been admitted by his means, through a very intricate

passage, took the place, and having put the guards to

the sword, the rest of the garrison were all at once so

struck with terror, that they immediately surrendered at

discretion. The city and citadel were both demolished,

and the legions withdrawn from the Volscian territory,

to push on the siege of'Veii, with all the force the Ro­

mans could muster.

The slave, besides his liberty, had the effects of two

families assigned him, as the reward of his treason. He

was called the Roman Servius. Some think, that this'

Artena belonged to the Vejentes, and not tin: Volsci. A

city of the same name, situated between Caere and Veii,

leads them into this mistake; but this Artena was 'de­

stroyed by the Roman .kings, and besides, was not the

property of the Vejentes, but of the Caeretes. This other

Artena, the destruction whereof hath been just now de­

scribed, lay in the territory of the Volsci.

