290 TITUS LIVRTS' . , BOOK IR.

which he had formed at the distance of a mile from the

enemy. The vacant space between the camps served

the enemy for ranging themselves in order of battle.

When the enemy advanced to bid them defiance, they

were answered with silence. At length the JEqoi and

Volsci, wearied with standing under arms, and expecting

battle to no purpose, thought the victory was fairly given

up to them; and accordingly, sent out detachments of

their troops to ravage the country of the Latins and Her-

nici: In consequence of which, the few that remained

-might rather be considered as a guard to the camp, than  
a force sufficient for a general engagement.

The consul perceiving their weakness, gave them the

alarm i.n his turn; and his trcfops being drawn up in or­

der of battle, challenged them to come out. Conscious

of their inferiority, they did not accept, which inspired

the Romans immediately with ap extraordinary degree

of courage; concluding their enemies, now trembling

within their camp, already in their power. They con­

tinued the rest of the day under arms, but night obliged

them to retire, full of hopes, to rest and refresh them­

selves.

Very different was the situation of the enemy's spirits.

Expresses were posted away in all haste, to recal those

who had been dispersed to plunder. The parties at no

great distance returned; but they who had made a

greater excursion, were not found. Early next morning

the Roman army marched out of their camp, in order

to attack the enemies lines, should they decline coming

to battle: and* when the day was far spent, and no ap­

pearance of the enemy's stirring, the consul gave the

signal for the attack. Seeing the Roman army in mo­

tion, the jEqui and Volsci ashamed, that victorious as

they had been, they should now defend themselves ra­

ther by their works than their swords, they applied to

their generals, and with much importunity obtained the

signal.

When some of 'their battalions had already njarched

out at the gates of the camp, and others foUowed in pro­

per order, each man in his rank, -the consul advanced

against them, before they could be supported by the

v. hole army. Wherefore, charging them before all the

