474 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK V.

revenged. He then drew up his army in the best order

of battle possible, amidst the ruins of the city, and on

uneven ground, and took all the precautions that mili­

tary skill could suggest to insure success.

The Gauls, confounded at this revolution, ran to their

arms, and rushed against the Romans with more fur:

than prudence. Affairs now wore quite a different as­

pect, for the protection of the gods and human wisdom

united in favour of the Romans. For which reason the

Gauls were defeated at the first charge, with the same

ease they had conquered at tho battle of Allia.

They were a second time routed stilt more completely

•under the conduct and auspices of the same Camillas,

eight miles from Rome, on the Gabinian way, whither

they had fled. There the slaughter was total, their camp

taken, and not a man escaped to carry home the melan­

choly news of their disaster.

Thus the dictator having recovered his country from

the enemy, returned in triumph to Rome, and the sol­

diers in their rough jollity, recognized him a second Ro­

mulus the founder of a new Rome, eulogiums which be

roost certainly deserved. But this was not all. His

country, which he rescued from the enemy, he a second

time saved from its friends. For he prevented the peo­

ple from removing to Veii, though the tribunes made

greater effors to promote that emigration, after the city

was burnt, and the people themselves more devoted to

the project, than ever they had been before. . For this

reason, he did not abdicate the dictatorship after his tri­

umph, but at the importunity of the senate, deserted not

the republic, whilst its unsettled state required his super­

intendence.

CHAP. L.

Regulations after the eitmbian of the Gauls.

F'

IRt>T of al!, as he was exceedingly strict in whatever

regarded religion, he took under consideration, what re­

lated 10 the worship of the gods, and obtained a decree

of the senate; ' That all the temples, as they had beea

* in the enemy's possession, should be re-established,  
« .bounded, and purified; and that the duumvirs, who had

