CHAP. 36. ROMAN HISTORY. 69

tores minorum gentium: a party, no doubt, that would

continue firmly attached to the prince, by whose favour

they were raised to that dignity.

The first that felt the weight of his resentment, was the"

Latins. From them he took Appiolse by storm; and,

having returned with much more booty than couki have

been expected, from an expedition so inconsiderable, he

. celebrated his games at an expence, and with a magni­

ficence, above any of his predecessors. The place for

the Circus, now called Maximus, was then first marked

out, and divisions made for the senators and knights,

where they might erect scaffolds for their accommoda­

tion during the games. These scaffolds were called Fori,

and supported by forked posts, twelve feet high. The

games consisted chiefly in horses, and boxers, brought

from Etruria; and, from that period, have continued to

be celebrated every year, being sometimes called the

Roman, and sometimes the great games. To private

families also the prince let out the ground about the Fo­

rum, for shops and piazzas.

CHAP. XXXVI.

Tarquin makes war with the Sabines. "' . . .

J. JLE was making preparations for raising a stone vail

round the city; but a war with the Sabines interrupted

his designs. The incursion was so unexpected, that be­

fore the Roman army could march out to stop their pro­

gress, they had crossed the Anio. ' Wherefore, great was

the alarm at Rome, and in the first engagement, though

numbers fell on both sides, the victory was disputed.

After this battle, the enemy returned to their camp,

and the Romans got time to recruit. Tarquin, sensible

that his army suffered much for want of horse, resolved'

to add other centuries to the Ramnenses, Titienses, and

Luceres, and to distinguish them by his own name.

As Romulus had instituted this order by augury, Attus

Nayiu?, at that time much celebrated for his skill in the

art, contended that no alteration, or new appointment

could be made, without the approbation of the birds.

At this, the king flew in a passion, and in ridicule of the

