CHAP. 4. ROMAN HISTORY. • % . 405

disease constantly prevailing in the state, that you

might always have recourse to them for a cure. But,

tribune?, whether do you profess to be the people's

protectors, or their enemies? Are you advocates for,

or against the soldiers? Perhnps you will tell me,

that every act of the senators, whether for, or against

the interest of the commons, you are determined io

dislike: and as masters did not suffer their slaves to

have any intercourse with their neighbours, that they

might neither be well or ill used by them, so you will

not suffer the commons to have any intercourse with

the nobles, lest by our complaisance and generosity,

we should secure their attachment, and lest they, on

the other hand, should shew their regard, in their obe­

dience to our orders. How much more then should it

be your study, suppose you had no regard for the state,

if you had but the least spark of humanity remaining,

to use your utmost endeavours, to promote this reci­

procal complaisance and compliance between the se­

nate and people > For, should this harmony be per­

manent, who would not venture to promise, that this

our empire would soon be the most respectable of all

around us? -'

I

CHAP. IV.

Appius in continuation.

N the sequel of my discourse, I shall show how much

tha resolution of my colleagues, not to withdraw the

troops from before Veil, till it is taken, is not only ex­

pedient, but necessary: at present only permit me to

speak with regard to the condition of the troops there.

And I am convinced, were I to speak, not only to

you, but in the camp, where the soldiers themselves

would be my judges, I should infallibly have their

approbation. For, were my own ingenuity to furnish

me with nothing new to advance in this affair, I

should think myself at no loss, when I can confute my

opponents from what they themselves have advanced.

It was but lately that they insisted that the soldiers

ought to have rib pay iiow, because they had none

before. How then can they be offended now, when

