322 TITUS LIVIUS* BOOK IV.

'were not hearty in their endeavours to prevent their

'being injured, and careful, if at any time they had

'reason of complaini, to remove the cause, with a\\ the

'dispatch in their power.' The ambassadors promised

to lay the matter before their council of state, and were

dismissed with marks of respect.

As the city now had no supreme magistrates, the se­

nate met and named an inter-rex. The main question

now during this interregnum was, whether consuls or

military tribunes should be appointed to the government,

which was the subject of debate for several days. The

inter-rex and senate, insisted to have a Comitta for elect­

ing consuls, but the people and their tribunes, for mili­

tary tribunes. The senate prevailed, because the peo­

ple being determined, at all events, to chuse Patricians

,

grew indifferent about a question that could answer no

end: And their leaders themselves, preferred an election

Where they could not appear as candidates, to that where

they were sure to be cast as unworthy. The tribunes

too, out of respect to the principal senators, gave up a

point, which they saw they could not maintain. T.

Quinctius Barbatus, the inter-rex, created L. Paperius

Mugilanus, and L. Sempronius Atratinus consuls. Dur­

ing their administration, the treaty with the Ardeates

was renewed, which'is an incontestible proof that they

were consuls that year, though the ancient annals, as

well as the register of magistrates, make no mention of

either. It would seem, that military tribunes having

been created in the beginning of the year, the names ol

the consuls who succeeded them, were omitted, as if the

military tribuneship had continued in force to the end o!'

the year. Lic-inius Murer declares, that their names are

recorded in the treaty with the Ardeates, and also f.-und

in the linen records, in the temple of Monita. Notwith­

standing of all the alarms from the neighbouring nations

,

Rome enjoyed peace both at home and abroad.

.

•

