HAP. 33. ROMAN HISTORY. 24$

plague; asdid C. Horatius PuU'illus, the augur, in whose

place the college chose C. Veturius, the rather because

he had been condemned by the people. Quinctilius the

consul, and four of the tribunes, fell also victims of the

plague, so that this year was tainted with a prodigious

mortality. • , ',

In the mean time, they had no disturbance from fo­

reign enemies. In the next year, in the consulship of P.

Sestius, and T. Menemus, there was no foreign war, but

the daemon of discord once more began to rage at home.

The commissioners were now returned with the Athenian

laws, and the tribunes were very urgent, that the great

work of compiling a complete code of laws "should be

immediately entered upon. It was at last determined,

that ten gentlemen should be delegated to act as sole

magistrates for one \earj £tmi whose authority there

shoutd be no appeal. The debates ran high for some

time about admitting Plebeians in the commission. At

last the senate prevailed, under this restriction, that neither

Icilius' law with respect to the Aventine mount, nor the

laws relative to the functions and privileges of the tri­

bunes, should be repealed..

CHAP. XXXIII.

The beginnmg of the Administration of the Decemvirt.

A disinterested instance.

1 HUS in the year 30^ after the building of the city,

there was a second revolution, the administration being

now transferred from the consuls to'the decemvirs, as it

had been in the first instance, from the kings to consuls.

This last revolution was less memorable, as it was of

shorter duration. The joy thai this new form of govern­

ment diffused at first was rather extravagant, and upon

that account less permanent, insomuch that consular go­

vernment, both in name and authority, came sooner to

be in request. -

The decemvirs created by the people, were Appius

Claudius, T. Genucius, P. Sestius, L. Veturius, C. Ju­

lias, A Manlius, Ser. Sulpicius, P. Curiatius, T. Romi-

Iin--, and Sp. Posthumius. This compliment was paid to

