416 ... TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK V.

enter upon office the first of October, previous to whick

they gave in their own resignation.

CHAP. X.

Exertions qf the Tribunes to prevent Levies and payment of

Tares.

JJlJRING the administration of L. Valerius Potitus, a

fourth, M. Furius Camillus, Manius jEmilius Mamercinus

,

a third, Carius Cornelius Cossus, a second time, Caeso

Fabius Ambustus, and L. Julius Julus, who were elected

military tribunes with consular power, at this time, there

was sufficient business both at home and abroad. Wan

were multiplied upon their hands, all at the same time,

with the Vejentes, the Capenates, the'Falisci, and the

Volsci, in order to recover Anxur. Moreover .at Rome,

they had no small difficulty in making the levies and col足

lecting the taxes. The co-optation of two tribunes, be足

came another bone of contention, and the trial of the two

military tribunes, who had just divested themselves of

consular power, raised no small contention.

To raise the levies however, was the first business of

the military tribunes. Nor were the young men only

inrolled, but the old were also obliged to give in then

names, to serve as a city guard. The more numerous

the levies, the more money became necessary for their

pay, which, as it fell upon those who remained at home,

it was paid with no good will, as they too did the duty of

soldiers, and served the state, when they acted M quality

of city guards.

These things sufficiently hard in themselves, were

greatly aggravated by the seditious harangues of the tri足

bune? , who insisted, that pay .had been established for

the soldiers, with no other view, but to ruin one half of

the citizens by the hardships of war, and the other, by

impositions they weie hot able to support, 'Why,' pur足

sued they, ' one war has already been spun out to the

* third year, and designedly mismanaged, to protract it  
'still longer. ,At one single levy, armies have been

* raised for four separate wars, and both boys and old  
'men mustered to complete them. Now, they no Ion-

* ger make any difference between winter and summer:

