CHAP. 7. ROMAN HISTORY. 1-13

CHAP. VII,

The Ladies mourn for Brutus a whole year.

./\FTER this desperate engagement, Tarquin and his

Etrurians were seized with such a'panic, that giving over

his design as impracticable, the two armies ofthe Yejen-

tes and Tarquinienses, made the best of their way, in the

night-time, to their respective homes.

Or this battle also strange stories are reported; that a

loud voice, which they imagined to be Sylvanus's, was

heard frdm the forest of Arsia, in the dead of night, pro­

nouncing these'words, " The Etrurians Dave lost one

"man in the battle more than the Romans: The Ro-

"mans are masters of the field." One thing, however,

is certain, that the Romans left the field as conquerors,

and the Etrurians with all the marks of a defeat. For,

after the light appeared, and not a man of the enemy

to be seen, rublius Valerius, ,the consul, gathered up the

spoils, and returned in triumph to Rome. He buried'

his colleague, with all the poiup, at that time, possible.

But a much greater compliment was paid to his memory,

in the public mourning of the city, particularly remark­

able from this consideration, that the ladies mourned for

him a complete )'ear, as for apparent, to shew their re­

spect for the bold avenger of their sex's honour. -

Though the surviving consul had been very popular,

yet so fickle are the minds of the muttitude, that he not

only fell under their jealousy and resentment, but was

even charged with the most odious crimes. Reports

were spread, that he aspired at sovereignty, because he"

had not chosen a colleague in the room of Brutus, and

was building a house on the upper Velia, where, from

its height and situation, it would be an impregnable for­

tress.

As these things were become common topics of con­

versation, and gaining credit, they gave the consul no

little pain; wherefore having called a council of the peo­

ple, he came down to die assembly with his fasces low-

"ered. Nothing could have pleased the people mere, 'han

to see the ensigns of authority lowered to them; as it

L

