CHAP. 48. ROMAN HISTORY. "37?

The senate, before the tribunes had time to speak of

a distribution of the territory of Lavicum,* and by that

means revive the disputes about the Agrarian law; at a

full meeting, very judiciously voted, ' that a colony

'should be planted at Lavicum,' Fifteen hundred citi足

zens went thither, to each of whom were assigned two-

Roman acres.f After the capture of Lavicum, for the

first year, Agrippa Menenius Lanatus, L. Servilins Struc-

tus, and, P. Lucretius Tficipitinus, all for the second'

time, and Sp. Rutilius Crassus ; and for the year follow足

ing, A. Sempronius Atratinus,- for the third time; and

M. Papirius Mugilanus, with Sp. Nautius Rutilius, for

the second time, presided in quality of military tribunes

with consular power. During these two years, all was

quiet abroad; but the domestic tranquillity was greatly

disturbed with disputes about the Agrarian law(

CHAP. XLVII I.

Contests about the Agrarian law. Advice of Appitis.

J. HE tribunes wlio at this time kept the people in a -

ferment, were Sp. Maecilius and Metilius, who had been

both elected in their absence; the former for the fourth,

and the latter for the third time. They had preferred a

bill, for an equal .distribution of the conquered lands

among the citizens, f But as the city itself stood on con足

quered ground, ana- scarce any land about it, but what

had been the perquisite of their valour, which, by the

bye, excepting what the people had in possession, had

-neither been exposed to sale, nor distributed by public  
authority, by this bill,) the greatest part of the estates of

the nobility must hSve been confiscated, which of con足

sequence seemed to lay the foundation of very warm,

contests between the senate and people. Nor could the

military tribune.', although they often convened the

senate, and ha'd private conventions of the principal men

of the Patrician party, fall on any expedient to" obviate

this dilemma, till Appius Claudius, the grandson of that

* A city of the Latins, about 15 miles from Rome,  
f Jugcrum, 240 by 120 feet, or 5-Tihs of an English acre,

'

