824 TITUS LIVIU?' BOOK III.

ceptiug when the law was in question. On all other oc­

casions, they were all affability and complaisance to the

commons. Nay, the tribunes had not only full liberty

to do their other business quietly, but without a contra-

dictive word, or the least violence offered them, were re-

chosen to their office for the ensuing year; condescen­

sions and compliances, by which they gradually soothed

the multitude, and effectually defeated every attempt in

favour of the laws for all that year.

•CHAP. xv.

Herdonius' attempt upon Rome. A. R. 293.

\VHEN C. Claudius, son of Appras, and P. Valerius

Publicuia, succeeded to the consulship, they found great­

er harmony in the state, than it had enjoyed for some

. time before. The new year produced nothing remark­

able, as to getting the bill passed; and to prevent it,

continued to be the sole object of public attention.

The more the young nobles insinuated themselves into.

the good graces of the .Plebeians, the more vigilant were

the tribunes in setting every engine at work, by loading-

then] with calumnies, to render them suspected. They

alledged, " That there was a conspiracy on foot ;•—that

"Caeso was actually at Rome;—that measures were.

"concerted for murdering the tribunes, and massacring

the commons: That the elder senators had given it in

charge to the younger, to suppress the tribunitian

power, and to restore the state to that form of govern-.

ment which prevailed in Rome before the secession

to the mons sacer." Moreover, they dreaded a war

with the jEqui and Volsci, which was now become com­

mon, as it happened regularly almost every year: but, in

the mean time, another new and unexpected calamity

became the object of their attention, nearer home.

The capitol and fortress adjacent to it, was surprised

and seized in the nightime, by 4500 out-laws and

slaves, with Appius Herdonius, a Sabine, at their head.

A1I that were found in the citadel, who refused to join

in their enterprise, and take up arms with them, were

immediately put to death. In the confusion, some agi­

