42 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK. I.

Upon hearing the name of Numa mentioned, the Roman

fathers, although they saw that the balance of power

would be in favour of the Sabines, should they take a

king of that nation; yet none of them had the assurance

to put himself or any of his party, or in fine; any ol the

senators or citizens in competition with him, so that to a

man, they all agreed to confer the kingdom on Numa

Pompilius.

Being brought to Rome, in imitation of Romulus, who

before the city was built, was raised to the throne by

Augury, he made it a point that the gods should also be

consulted concerning his election. He was then led into

the citadel by an Augur, (who ever after had the honour

to perform that ceremony on public occasions,) and set on

a stone with his face to the south. The Augur sat down

on the left, his head covered with a veil, and a crooked

rod in his right hand, without a knot, which he called Li-

tuus. Having from thence taken a cursory view of town

and country, and prayed for him, he marked out the

quarters of the heavens, from east to west, calling that to

the south, the right; and that to the north, the left; then

looking forward as far as his eye could reach, he mark­

ed the bounds in his mind. Then shifting the Lituus to

his left hand, his right hand being laid on the head of

Numa, he prayed thus: "O father, Jupiter, if thou ap-

"provest of the choice of the Romans, in Numa Pom-

"pilius, whose head I hold, to be their king, I beseech

"thee, give us some sure and evident signs, expressive

"of thy pleasure, within the bounds I have marked

"out."" Then he mentioned the omens he wished to

appear; and these being seen, Numa is declared king,

and comes down'from the temple.

CHAP. XIX.

Numa builds tlie temple ef Janus.

UMA being thus raised to the throne, lays a plan

by justice, laws, and wise regulations, to give the city a

more solid foundation, than that which was laid by force

of arms. But as he was extremely sensible, that it would

