CHAP. 19. ROMAN HISTORY. . '• 231

"state, prevail by their vile intrigues, to be continued

"in the office of tribunes, for two or three years, and to

** act in it wiih tyrannical wantonness." What!" con­  
tinued he, " has this Aulus Virginius, because he was

"not in the capital, deserved less punishment, than Ap-

pius Herdonius, who seized it f I affirm if the circum­

stances be properly attended to, it will be evident, 4hat

he deserved it more. Herdonius, in declaring himself

your enemy, did in some measure, put arms into your

hands; but this tribune, in maintaining with effrontery,

that there was no war,—no enemy, wrested your arms

from you, and gave you up defenceless to your slaves

and exiles; and did you march your troops, (with de­

ference to my colleague, C. Claudius, and the dead

""Valerius, be it spoken) did you march, I say up to

"the capitol, before you had cleared the forum of these

"wretches, the more dangerous enemies of Rome?

"What a shame in the sight of gods and men! Whilst

"the enemy were in possession of the capitol and cita-

"del, and a captain of a banditti composed of exiles and

"slaves, after they had profaned every thing, and taken-

"up their quarters in the temple of the most high Jupi-

"ter, the Tusculans should have armed in our defence,

"before we did it ourselves! There is still reasoji to

," doubt, whether it was L. Mamilius, the general of

"Tusculum, or the consuls, Valerius and Claudius, that

"delivered the citadel of Rome. And, that we, who

"would not even permit the Latins to arm in their own

"defence, even when the enemy was in their country,

"should, upon this occasion, have been struck out of ex-

"istence, as a state, had not these same Latins, as a pure

"efl'ect of their good-will,-armed for our relief. And is

"this what you, tribunes, call aiding ttie plebeians, to

"give them up unarmed to be slaughtered by the enemy?

"If any one, the lowest of the people, with whom you

"herd, and of whom you have formed a country and

"republic, distinct from the state, peculiar to yourselves,

"should come and inform you, that his house was in-

"vested with a body of armed slaves, you might think

"it incumbent on you to run to his relief: but the most

"high, the most benevolent Jupiter, was not worthy to

"be rescued by human aid, when beset with armed

