CHAP. 30. ROMAN HISTORY. , 140

by putting arms in their hands, to allow them to defend

themselves. Vetusjus the consul was therefore sent to

their assistance, which put an end to the inroads of the

jEqui, and obliged them to retire from the Champaign

country, as their dependence was not on the strength of

their arms, but the advantage of the ground, they se­

cured themselves, by keeping on the tops of the moun­

tains.

The other consul marched against the Votsei, and

scorning to spend time in laying waste their country; he

challenged them to move their camp nearer his, and to

ceme to action at once. Both armies stood drawn up

before their lines, in a plain between their camps. The

Volsci had rather the advantage in numbers, which en­

couraged them to advance without order, as if they had

despised the enemy. The Roman consul did not ad­

vance, nor sutler the soldiers to return the enemy's

shouts, but gav« orders to stand still, with their spears

fixed in the ground, and when the enemy advanced near

enough, to attack them sword in hand.

The Volsci, already exhausted with running and shout­

ing, imagining the Romans were petrified with fear, be­

gan the attack accordingly; but finding themselves vi-

gorotfsly received, and seeing the swords glittering in

their eyes, they took to their heels in as great disorder,

as if they had fallen into an ambuscade. But they had

already been so much exhausted with advancing to the

field, that they had not strength enough left to carry

them out of it.

On the other hand, the Romans having had nothing to

fatigue them m the beginning of the action-, were fresh

and vigorous; and quickly came up with the Volsci, al­

ready exhausted, took their camp by assault, drove out

the enemy, and pursued them to Velitrse, which they en­

tered peli mell with them. By the promiscuous slaugh-'

ter of all ranks which ensued, there was greater effusion

of blood in this place than the action itself. A few were

pardoned, who laid down their arms and gave them-

selves up.'

