254 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK Ilk 4

whereas their predecessors had observed this rule, that

only one should have the fasces at a time, which passed

in rotation through them all, to each of them regularly

in his turn. One hundred and twenty lictors now filled

the forum, carrying axes tied up in their fasces. Nor

did they think themselves entitled to withdraw the axe?,

since by the decemviral constitution, there was no appeal

from their judgment. They had the appearance of ten

kings, which not only filled the minds of the populace

with uncommon terror, but damped the principal sena­

tors not a liittei from a persuasion, that they only want,

ed a pretence to lay the foundation of their authority in

blood. For, should any one> 'Cither in the senate, or

assemblies, utter a syllable* serving to revive the re­

membrance of liberty, he would run the risk of his skin>

and perhaps his head, to intimidate others from using

the same freedom.

The right of appeal to the people was taken away, so

that no relief could be expected from that quarter, and

matters had been so concerted among the decemvirs, that

one of them would not receive an appeal from the deci­

sion of another^ which was very different from the prac­

tice of last year, when they not only suffered appeals to

one another, but also transferred causes to the judgment

of the people, that properly belonged to their own tri­

bunal. For some time they were equally formidable to

all ranks; but by degrees, the whole weight of their

power began to be pointed against the populace.

They spared the Patricians, whilst their schemes a-

gainst those of lower rank, were cruel and oppressive;

regarding the person, not the justice of the cause, inte­

rest with them constantly supplanting equity. They

advised all causes at home, and only pronounced sen­

tence in the forum. In cases of appeals, the appellant

was handled so roughly, that he had reason to repent of

his application fot a new verdict. A report too, began

to be spread, though no author was given, that they had

conspired among themselves, not only to exercise their

tyranny for the present, but had entered secretly into a

compact, which they had confirmed by oath, never to

call a new -election, but now that they were once in

possession, to make their authority perpetual.

