278 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK III.

CHAP. LI.

The Secession in continuation.

VV HEN the deputies were withdrawn, Virginius re­

presented 10 the soldiers, " That they had juijt before

'been at a loss in a matter of no great difficulty, only

for this reason, that they were a body without a head.

Thai they had indeed given an answer quite to the

purpose; but it was rather the effect of chance, than

the result of public deliberation. -That it was his own

"opmion, they should elect ten person? , whom they

"shoulu invest with the chief command, under the mar-

"tial title of military tribunes." When they put him

at the head of the list; "Reserve, (said he,) your gener-

"ous intentions for me, for times more favourable to us

"both. No dignity can sit easy on me, whilst my

"daughter is unrevenged: and at this time of public

"embarrassment, it would be imprudent to confer offices

"of authority upon'persons most exposed to the barred

"of those in opposition. If you think me capable of

"serving you, my endeavours will be no less exerted in

"continuing a private person."

Ten military tribunes were accordingly created. The

other army employed against the Sabines, soon took the

hint, and at the instigation of Icilius and JS'umitorius,

threw off all allegiance to the decemvirs.

The murder of Siccius now appeared to them in the

most glaring colours, and incensed them no less, than

the late accounts they had received of the base attempt

upon Virginia's honour. Whenever Icilius heard that

military tribunes were created on the Aventine hill, lest

the city Comitia should set a precedent, in electing those

who were military tribunes, to be tribunes of the people,

especially as he was a man much versaut in popular af­

fairs, and had an eye to the tribunitian power himself,

be took care, before they set out for the city, that the

same number of military tribunes should be appointed

by that army, and invested with the same authority.

They entered the city with colours flying, by the gate

Collina, and marched in a body through the middle of

