1*2 TITUS LIVIUS' BookV.

When the news of this 'disaster reached Rome, the

feelings of every citizen were discernible in. their looks,

and the senate was greatly concerned, from a a appre­

hension, that it would be impossible to prevent a sedition

in the city as well as in the camp," for the tribunes would

not fail to crow over the commonwealth, as on a victory

obtained. But instantly those who, by their valuation,

were in the rank of knights, though they had not horses

assigned them by the public, having previously concert­

ed among themselves, applied directly to the senate; and

having obtained an audience, offered to equip themselves

at their own expence, for the public service. For this

generous office, the senate thanked them in the politest

terms; and the news being circulated throtigh the forum

and the city, brought the people, in' a moment, to the

senate-house by the lump; declaring that 'they were of

that order which now served on foot; and though it was

out of their turn, that they were ready to serve at Veii,

or wherever the senate should be pleased to lead them;

at the same time, were they led to Veii, they declared

that they would not return before that city was taken.

The joy excited by a proposal so generous, was ex­

cessive. The people were not ordered the thanks" of the

house to be returned by the magistrates, as had been

done with respect to the knights; nor were any of them

called into the senate-house, to hear their answer . The

senators could not keep within doors; but out they ran,

and from an eminence, every one in particular, by his

words and gestures, expressed to the multitude that were

standing below in the coroitium, the general gladness

and exultation; such unanimity, they cried out, .would

render Rome happy,—invincible,—eternal. They prais­

ed the knights, they praised the commons: nay, they ex­

tolled the day,—the glorious day! They acknowledged

the senate was now outdone" in kindness and benevo­

lence. The two orders seemed to vie with each other

in weeping tears of joy, till at length the fathers ware

called back into the house, where they enacted, that

'The military tribunes should, in an assembly of the

'people, return thanks to both horse and foot, in name

'of the Republic, and assure them that the senate would

« never forget the regard they had shewn their country

'on this occasion 5 aud, moreover, ordered that all Uu

