32S TITUS L1VIUS' BOOK IV.

•

a very respectable light,) concluded, that they ought to

exert themselves, that the remains of the infamous sen­

tence, formerly passed in relalion to the Ardeatfts, might

be buried in oblivion ; and for that purpose, prevailed

on the senate to pass a decree, for sending a colony to

Ardea, to defend them against the Volsci, and repeop'.e

the city, much depopulated by the civil war. This was

publicly given out and recorded, that the people and

their tribunes, might not discover the latent design of re­

versing their sentence. For, it was concerted, that a far

greater part of the colony should consist of Rutuli than

of Romans; that no territory should be divided but that

which had produced the infamous sentence ; and that no

Roman should have-a single acre of land, till all the Ru­

tuli should be provided for.

Thus was the territority restored to the Ardeates.

Three gentlemen were chosen to lead the colony to

Ardea, Agrippa Menenius. T. Clcelius Siculus, and Ebu-

cius Elua, who by an unpopular discharge of their trust,

in assigning the lands to the allies, which the Romans

had adjudged to themselves, fell into disgrace with the

people, nor were they high in favour with the Pa­

tricians, because they had shown no respect to persons.

However, they avoided a prosecution, when the tribunes

appointed them a day to answer for their conduct before

the peop'e, by deserting the diet, an/1 incorporating them­

selves with the colony, who had been witnesses of the

integrity and impartiality of their conduct. »

Be

CHAP. XII.

A Famine. A Superintendent of Provisions chosen.

)OTH this year and the following, when Cains Furius

Pacilius and M. Papirius Crnssus were consuls, passed in

tranquillity bath at home and abroad. The games,

which the decemvirs had vowed, and the senate enacted,

daring the secession of the people from the fathers, were

celebrated this year. In vain did Petilius attempt to

raise a sedition; wlio being made tribune of the people

a second time, couid not, for all the blustering he miulv

about the Agrarian law, get the consuls to i»ov.c it once

