480 tlTUS LIVIUS' BOOK V.

'B

CHAP. LIH.

In Continuation.

UT it may be said, that necessity obliges us to quit

a city in ruins, and reduced to ashes, and to take re­

fuge in Veii, where we shall find all conveaiencies,

without harassing "the poor people with rebuilding

Rome. Were I not to tell you this is a vain pretext,

a mere allegation, I am certain, you must see it: For

some of you, gentlemen, must remember, that before

the arrival of the Gauls, when all the buildings, pub­

lic and private, were whole -and entire, and Rome ir'

absolute safety, this same affair of removing to Veii

was in agitation. But to show you, tribunes, in what

different points of view this matter appears to you and.

to me. You think, though great objections might have

been made at that time, that now there can be none.

On the contrary, it is my opinion, nor need you be

surprised till you have heard me out, although we

might have left the city before it had suffered from the

rude touches of the Gauls, that in honour we cannot

leave these ruins now. For, at that time, our victory

furnished us with some pretence for removing to a city

we had just conquered, as it was cause of boasting to-

ourselves and posterity; but to remove thither now,

would be for us mean and shameful in the extreme,

but to the Gauls it would do singular credit. For it

would by no means appear, that we had left our coun­

try when victorious, but that we had lost it when con­

quered. To the defeat at Allia, the capture of Rome,

and the blockade of the Capitol, may be justly ascrib­

ed the sad alternative of abandoning our tutelary gods,

of flying and banishing ourselves from a place \v<i

could tot defend. Have the Gauls been able to de­

molish Rome, and shall it be thought that the Romans,

are not able to rebuild it! What then remains, but that

you tamely suffer these very Gauls, whose numbers are

incredible, to-return if they please, with a new army,

and take possession of this city, which .they have taken

ami you abandoned?

'But if the Gauls have no such intention, what if the

