110 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK II.

"Considering the frailty of human nature, to depend on

." innocence alone, will be found but a precarious si-

"tuation." . \

While their minds were thus naturally chagrined, de­

puties from the Tarquins arrived unexpectedly at Rome,

who, without mentioning a syllable of their return,

.only required that their effects should be given up.

After they had been admitted to an audience in the se-

, nate, it was debated for several days, whether their de­

mands should be granted, as a refusal might be a pre­

tence to the Tarquins for beginning hostilities, and a

compliance afford them the means for carrying on a

war.

In the mean time, however, they were otherwise em­

ployed; for, while they openly demanded their effects,

they were plotting in private for recovering the kingdom j

and under pretence of courting the young patricians for

their interest to support their claim in the senate, they

were sounding their inclinations. To those, whom they

saw disposed to listen to their proposals, they delivered

letters from the Tarquins; and concerted measures for

taking the royal family into the city, in the night-time.

CHAP. IV.

'The plot discovered by means of a slave, and the conspira­

tors c.lapt in irons.

A HE conspiracy was first communicated to the Aquil-

Iji and Vitellii, of whom there were several brothers.

Brutus had married a sister of the Vitellii, and by her

had two sons, called. Titus and Tiberius, whom their

uncles engaged to be their associates in their design.

There were other young Patricians concerned in the

plot; but their names, in so long an interval, have been

totally lost. When it was carried by a majority of the

senate, that the effects belonging to the royal family

should be restored, the ambassadors made it a pretence

for protracting their stay at Rome, as the consuls ha'd al­

lowed them time. to provide carriages for their transpor­

tation. This time they employed in conferences with

the .conspirators, upon whom they prevailed by their ur­

