CHAP. 46. ROMAN HISTORY. 377

them in the city, their desire of commanding alone be­

ing not in the least abated, broke out with still greater

fury in the camp. In sentiment they never agreed;

and each stuck inflexibly to his own.; Each was for ,

having no counsels followed, and no orders executed but

his own. The only point agreed in, was a sovereign

contempt for each other; till upon a remonstrance from

their lieutenant-generals, matters were so ordered, that

they were to command each his day alternately-*''

\Vhen these accounts came to Rome, Servilins, whose

experience was equal to his years, is said to have im­

plored the gods, that the discord of the tribunes might

not prove more fatal to the commonwealth, than it had

been at Veii: and as if he had seen that some great ca­

lamity was at hand, he pressed his soji to make levies,-

and be ready to take the'field. He was not mistaken.

Sergius, on one of the days, when he' commanded in

chief, was drawn by a feigned retreat of the ZEqui, into

a steep and disadvantageous ground close under their

lines, vainly imagining he would make himself master

of iheir camp. By a sudden sally from the canty, the

JRqai drove them down the precipice, nudjmore of them

were dashed to pieces by the^weight of the fall down the

declivity, than fell by the precipitancy of their flight.

With much difficulty the Romans kept possession of their

camp that day; and the next, when they ^aw themselves

invested almost on every side by the enemy, they made

their escape out at a back gate and shamefully aban­

doned it. The generals with thtir lieutenants, and the

best troops, that did not quit the ensigns, retired to Tus-

culum, whilst the rest, dispersing- themselves about the

country, came to Rome by different ways, and repre­

sented their loss much greater than it really was.

At Rbme the alarm was less, both because in -their

fears they had anticipated all that happened, and young

Servilius had got together a new body of recruits to as­

sist them upon occasion. The inferior magistrates also,

by his order quieted the commotions in the city; and the

couriers who had been -.lispatch«d to inform themselves

of the state of the armies, brought advice, that the ge­

neral* and their troops were at Tusculum, and that the

enemy still continued in their old-camp. But what re».

