CHAP. 38. ROMAN HISTORY. 457

when she is unwilling they should avert her impending

purposes, that in the present conjuncture, when an un­

known and terrible enemy from the ocean and utmost

verges of the earth, were advancing by rapid marches to

attack her, Rome made no extraordinary effort, by ap­

pointing a supreme magistrate, or suing for foreign aid.

The tribunes, whose rashness had involved Rome in this

war, presided in every thing, speaking lightly of the war,

they made the levies with no more care than was usual

upon the most ordinary occasions.'

In the mean time, the Gauls, when they were inform­

ed that the violators of the law of nations had been rais- •

ed to the first dignities of the state, and their embassy-

slighted, gave full vent to their passion, to which .the

nation is much addicted, immediately pulled up their

ensigns, and began their march with all expedition.

When during their march, they observed the confusion

and terror of the cities through which they passed, as

they ran to their arms, and the peasants flying before

them, they called out aloud, that they were marching to

Rome. Wherever they went they made a very formid­

able appearance, as their numbers, both in horse and foot,

covered a vast tract of ground. The rapidity of their

march, the news whereof, fame and couriers from Clusi-

um, and other states, had brought to Rome before them,

occasioned a terrible consternation there.

Troops were levied in haste and without choice, and

Jed out in great confusion, which with difficulty came up

with the enemy eleven miles from the city, where the

river Allia rising out of the river Crustuminum, and run- .

ning in a very deep channel, falls into the Tiber, a little

below the Salarian high-way. The whole plain, both

before and round them, was covered with enemies, and

the Gauls, of whom a mighty bluster is characteristics),

by their barbarous songs and hideous bowlings, made all

about them resound with a horrible noise.

CHAP. XXXVIII.

A battle. Tfie Romans defeated.

.1 HERE the military tribunes took no care, either to

make choice of au advantageous post for their camp, or

i

