240 . TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK III.

"this sacred oak, and whatever divinity resides in it,

"bate.witness to your breach of treaty; may they pay

"more regard to our just complaints, and by and by

"prosper our arms, when we shall take you to a severe

"account for your violation of the laws of gods and men."

The moment the ambassadors were returned to Rome,

the senate ordered one of the consuls to march with an

army to. the Algidus,-against Gracchus, and the other

to lay waste the territories of the .ffiqui. The tribunes,

as usual, opposed the levies at first, and miglit have done

so to the last, but for a fresh aud sudden alarm.

CHAP. XXVI.

Minucius besieged in his camp Cincinnatus created

dictator.

A

SWARM of Sabines drove like an inundation, ravag足

ing all before them, almost to the walls of Rome. The

Roman lands were laid waste, and in the city there was

great consternation. The people then cheerfully took

arms, and in spire of all the remonstrances of the tribunes,

two formidable armies were levied. Nautius led one of

them against the Sabines, and encamped at Eretum,

whence he sent out small detachments, and these gene足

rally in the night, by which he committed such terrible

devastations, that comparatively speaking, what the Ro足

mans had suffered bore no proportion.

But Minutius in his expedition, had neither the same

spirit, nor the same good fortune: for, having encamp足

ed not far from the enemy, although he had met with no

extraordinary check, he kept within his camp for fear.

The enemy, the moment they observed his cowardice,

began, as it generally happens, to pull up a prodigious

(low of spirits. Thus animated, they attacked his camp

in'the night, but finding they could make no impression

by open force, drew lines round it the next day. Before

they had finished their circumvallation, and blocked up

every avenue, five horsemen, who had been dispatched

on purpose, escaped the vigilance of the enemy's cen-

tries, and carried the news to Rome, that the consul and

his army were besieged in their camp. This intclli-

