6BAp. 2- HOMAN HISTORY. 403

•see pretty, plainly, what were the views in the pay

granted to the soldiers; that they had not been deceiv­

ed, when they asserted, that wiih this.instance of ge­

nerosity from their enemies, was conveyed a secret

poison.—Thatthey had received it in exchange for their

liberty.—That the youth were removed and banished

from the city and public-affairs for good anc) all; and

'without regard to the rigour of the season, were to be

kept in the tield all the winter, without the liberty of

visiting their families or looking into their own atl'airs.

And after all, what reason can be assigned for continu­

ing the campaign? Why, that the youth in whom

the strength of the people consists, may be prevented

from doing any thing in fuU assemblies, for their com­

mon interest. That besides, they were subjected to

much more fatigue, and had greater hardships to en­

counter, than the Vejentes, who, whilst they defend­

ed their town, which was secured by excellent walls, •

and the natural strength of its situation, passed the

winter in their own houses: whereas, the Roman sol- •

diers, amidst toil and hardships, rvere exposed to frost

and snow, were obliged to lie in'tents, without laying

aside their arms, even during the w'mter, a se.:son of

rest and respite from war, all the world over. A yoke

of servitude; which neither the kings, nor before the

existence of tribunitian power, the consuls, haughty

as they were, nor the despotism of a dictator, nor even

the cruelty of the decemvirs, had ever imposed; which

the military tribunes now exercise without mercy over

the commons of Rome, in obliging them to serve in

the field, the whole year round. What then would

they do, were the consuls, or dictators, who being only

invested with the shadow of consular dignity, to lord it

with such tyrannical rigour? But even in this circurn-

•stance, there is hardly any room for complaint; among

eight military tribunes, there was not a place for a

single Plebeian. That formerly the Patricians, with­

out a very hard struggle, could not fill up three of these

places; but now eight at a time jump at once into

powej, and yet among all that number, a single Ple­

beian could not be smuggled in, who, if good for no-

tbing else, might have put his colleagues in mind, that.

