346 TITUS LIVJUS' Book IV.

i

such havock in town and country, both among the in­

habitants and their cattle, that fearing the losses the far­

mers had sustained would bring- 6n a famine, they sWit

to Etruria, Pomptinum, Cumae, and last of all to Sicily,

for corn. '.

No motion was made for a consular Comitia at this

time; so that L. Pinarius Mamercinus, L. Furius Me-

dulinus, and Sp. Posthufnius Albus, were chosen, mi­

litary tribunes, with consular power; all of them Patri­

cians. This year the plague began to subside, nor was

there any danger of famine, as measures had been taken

to prevent it. The Volsci and /Equi, however, in their

councils of state, and the Etrurians in a general diet,

held at the temple of Volumna, were talking in a stile

which shewed their views were not pacific. The scheme,

however, was put off for a year, and it was provided by

a decree, that there should be no general diet sooner,

notwithstanding all that could he urged by the Vejentes,

that Veii would soon share the fate of Fidense, which was

now in ruins.

In the mean time, at Rome, the wealthy Plebeians,

who had long, but to little purpose, waited at the pool

of promotion, now that they had a respite from foreign

wars,, began to hold meetings at the tribunes houses.

There they had private consultations, complaining, 'That

'the people were ill affected to their interest, insomuch,

'that the military tribunes, with consular power, had

« been elected for a great many years, yet never one

< Plebeian had been admitted to that honour: their an-

'cestors surely had seen a great way before them, who

'had wisely provided, that no Patrician should enjoy an

« office among the Plebeians; or, long before this time,

» they would have been tribunes of the people! so des"

'picable now were the commons, to their own order,

« that they were held in no greater contempt by the se-

i nators, than the people.' Others excused the people,

and laid all the blame upon the Patricians: alledging,

« That it was owing to their intrigues and -cunning ad-'

« dress, that the gate to promotion was shut against the

« commons. For, were these false lights extinguished,

'and -the people neither flattered nor bullied by the

'Patricians, they would not, in their suffrages, forget their

