402 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK V.

This proceeding gave great offence to the other states

of Etruria, who not only had an aversion to monarchy,

but a particular dislike to this king. His person and

pride had formerly rendered him odious to the people,

in having violently interrupted the yearly games, any

intermission in which was reckoned criminal. He had

stood candidate tor the office of high-priest, and by the

suffrage of the twelve Lucomonies, saw another prefer­

red; in resentment of which affront, he took an oppor­

tunity, when the games were at the height, to call off

actors at a moment's warning, of which the greatest

part were his own slaves. For this reason, the Etrurians,

of all the nations the most superstitious, and the most

precise in the observance of every religious rite, were

determined to suffer the Vejentes to stand on their own

legs, whilst '.hey were subject to a king. The accounts

of this resolution were suppressed at Veii for fear of the

king, who would have treated the retailer of such intel­

ligence as a disturber of the peace, whatever authority

he had for the report he circulated. The Romans were

not without intelligence, that all was quiet in Etruria;

yet as they had been advised that this affair had been

debated in all their councils, they raised fortifications to

have a double effect, and fronting different ways, to se­

cure themselves against the city, and the sallies of the

besieged, and to prevent any succours that might come

from Etruria.

CHAP. II.

A Winter . Campaign determined on, and oppoted by tlie

Tribunes.

j. HE Roman generals, thinking it would be more

practicable to starve the city by a blockade, than to carry

it by assault, ordered barracks to be built to defend them

from the rigour of the season, a thing absolutely unknown

to the Roman soldiery, as they were determined to con­

tinue the war during the winter. When the noise of

this resolution reached Rome, the.tribunes, who had been

long at a loss for materials to raise a combustion, imme­

diately repaired to the assembly, with a view to exaspe­

rate the people; representing, ' That they might now

