148 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK If.

CHAP. XXX.

Manius Valerius chosen Dictator.

_L HE opinion of Appius, seemed to many, as it really

was, extremely harsh and severe. On the other hand,

the propositions by Virginius and Largius, would be

dangerous precedents, especially that of Largius, which

would give a fatal blow to all credit and commerce. It

was admitted, that the opinion of Virginius, which by a

judicious medium, corrected Largius's excess, was the

most moderate and eligible. But the intrigues of par足

ties, and the view of private interest, which ever did,

and ever will obstruct public deliberations, turned the

scale in favour of Appius's opinion, who was within a

little of being declared dictator himself, which would en足

tirely have exasperated and alienated the people at this

dangerous conjuncture, when the Volsci, JEqu't, and Sa-

bines, were all in arms together.

But the consuls and the older senators took care, that

an authority, in itself imperious and absolute, should be

conferred upon one of a mild and moderate disposition.

So the election fell upon Manius Valerius, the son of

Volesus. The people saw well enough, that it was.

against them, a dictator was cheated; yet, having got

the right of appeal, by a law preferred by his brother,

they suspected nothing oppressive or tyrannical from that

family. t

An edict of the dictator^, much of the same nature

with that published by the consul Servilius, confirmed

them afterwards in these hopes. Wherefore, in confi足

dence of the dictator's name, and the sovereign power

of his office, they gave in their names without opposition.

Ten legions were raised; an army superior to any levied

before. Each of the consuls commanded three, and the

dictator four. They were obliged to take the field im足

mediately; for the /Equi had entered the territory of

I.atium with a hostile army, and the Latins, by their

deputies, insisted that the senate should relieve them, or

permit them to arm in their own defence. It seemed

more eligible to send an army for their protection, than

