336 ', TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK IV.

equivocal expression he generally made use of, was con-

strueO by the Fidenates 11110 an order to murder the aru-

bassuviiM.-. But it is hardly possible, that the king

would have been so very intent on his game, as not to

be diverted by the arrival of his new allies the Fidenates,

to consult him concerning a murder, contrary to the law

of nations; or that afterwards, he should not have ex­

pressed his detestation of so horrible a deed. It is more

probable, that it was a digested plan, to secure the Fide-

nates fftectaally to his interest, by the guilt of so black

a crime; which must make a breach betwixt the Ro­

mans and them never to be made up.

The statues of the ambassadors, who were murdered

at Fidenae, were erected in the Rostra at the public ex-

pence. The prospect of a bloody battle, won with- the

confederate troops of the Vejentes and Fidenates, who

besides their living in the neighbourhood, had in effect

commenced hostilities, in au instance of the most shock­

ing barbarity, kept the people and their tribunes from

raising a disturbance, or clogging the wheels of govern­

ment, so that M. Geganius for the third time, with L.

Sergius Fidenas were chosen consuls without opposition.

It is very probable that Sergius got the sirname of Fi­

denas, from the war which he conducted afterwards.

For he was the first who measured swords with the king

of the Vejentes, on this side the Anio, and came off vic­

torious: bu| it cost him dear: for which reason, Rome

was more afflicted for the loss of many citizens, than

elated with joy for the defeat of the enemy.

Upon this event, as was usual in cases of danger, the

senate ordered Mamcrcus .SSmilius to be created dictator.

For master of the horse he named L. QuinctiusCincinna-

tus, a young nobleman worthy of so great a father,

who the year before had been one of his colleagues in

the office of military tribune with consular power. At

the levy made by the consuls, the old centurions, of

great valour and experience, entered themselves for the

service, and the places of those who fell in the last ac­

tion were totally filled up. The dictator ordered Quin-

tius Capitol in us , and M. Fabins Vibulanu? , to atiend him

in quality of lieutenants. The enemy fmding they ha.1

now to do with a general invested with unlimited power,

