150 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK IL

CHAP. XXXI.

Victory over the Sabines.

PURING these transactions among the Volsci, the

dictator was at blows with the Sabines, on which side lay

the weight of the war. He defeated them, took their

camp, and gained a complete victory. He had broke

the main body of their army by charging with his horse;

and by drawing out the wings too far, their ranks were

weakened in the centre. In this confusion the foot charg­

ed them warmly, and with a complete victory also forced

their camp.

Since the action at lake Regillus, there was not a more

memorable battle than this. The dictator entered the

city in triumph; and besides other honours, a place of

distinction, with a curule chair, was granted to him and

his descendants, at th<5 games of the circus.

The territory of Velitra was taken from the Volsci

after their defeat, and a colony sent from Rome for its

cultivation. Soon after this, there was an engagement

with the jEqni, much indeed against the inclination of

the consul, who easily saw the difficulty attendmg an

attack, when the enemy was so advantageously posted;

but the soldiers complained that the war was protracted,

on purpose, that the time of the dictator's authority might

expire before they should reiurn to Rome, which would

render his promises as vain and. ineffectual as Servilius'

bad been; and so forced him rashly to march his army up

the bill. However imprudent this step, the enemy's

want of spirit crowned it with success: for before the

Romans were come within reach of their darts, the .SSqui,

struck with astonishment at their resolution, abandoned

their camp, which by its situation was almost impregna­

ble, and ran down into the valleys over against them.—

Here the Romans found much booty, and victory without

loss of blood.

After all these gallant actions, and three different wars

successfully ended, the senate and people began to be

equally solicitous about the event of their domestic dis­

putes. The usurers had not been idle all the while, but

