462 lf ITtTS LIVIUS' BOOK V.

suited together, what sacred things they should carry

away, and as they could not take the whole, what they

should leave behind, <md where these precious deposits

might be roost safely lodged. At last, they concluded

it would be best to pack them in small casks, and bury

them in a chapel, next to the house of the priest of Ko-

mulus, where now h is reckoned'unlawful to spit. What

was to be carried away, they divided among them, and

each with his burden, took the road by the bridge, Sul-

-picius leading to the Janiculum.

As L. Albinus, a Plebeian, was drawing his wife and

children in a waggon, among the rest of the crowd, who

could hare been of no use in the defence of the city, be

observing the vestals on the side of a hill, notwithstand­

ing the necessity of the times, forgot not the respect due

to things divine; for thinking it most preposterous that

he should be seen in a carriage with his family, whilst

the public priests of the Roman people were on foot,

carrying the sacred things, he ordered out hi* wife and

children, and placing the vestals with their sacred bur­

dens in the waggon, drove them to Caere, the place of

their destination. .,

"';: .CHAP. XLI.

., Retolution and massacre of the aged Senators.

N the mean time, every thing for the' defence of the

ditadel being disposed at Rome, in the best manner pos-

sib]ei considering the present exigency, the venerable

company of superannuated patriots returned to their

housed, there to wait, with steady resolution, the coming

of the enemy, and deith. Such of them as had borne

curule magistracies, that they might die adorned with

the ensigns of their former dignity, honours, and gal­

lantry, dressed themselves in their most magnificent robes,

which they used to wear in the procession of their gods,

and in their triumphs, seating themselves in their ivory

chairs in the middle of their halls. We find in some

authors, that these ancients first devoted themselves for

their country, and the Roman'people, by a vow which

M. Fabius, the high priest, administered in form.

The Gauls, as the intervention of a whole night had

