. 25. ROMAN HISTORY. 230

CHAP. XXV. ~ -

New disturbance from the

. .

HESE consuls gave way to L. Menucius and C.

Nautius, who took under their consideration, the two

causes, that lay over undetermined the former year. The

consuls would not hear of the law, nor the tribunes of

Volscius's trial, but ihe new Qutestors were men of greater

resolution and more weight. There were in that office

Titus Quinctius Gapitolinus, who had been thrice con足

sul, and M. Valerius, the son of Valerius, and grandson

of Volscius. Quinctius, since Ceeso, the pride of the Ro足

man youth, could neither be restored to his. family, nor

the state, thought it his duty to prosecute the man who

had given false evidence against him, and so deprived

him of an opportunity of pleading his innocence, as far

as law or justice would go.

When Virginius, particularly, and the other tribunes

were bustling about the law, the consuls were allowed

two months to examine it, and explain to the people the

mischief latent under it, after which they were to suffer

it to be put to the vote. The concession of this respite,

produced a general tranquillity all over the city; but it

was soon interrupted by the JEqui, who, having broke

the treaty they had made with the Romans the year be足

fore, bad put themselves under the auspices of Gracchus

Cltelius by far the most considerable man in their coun足

try. Led on by him, they passed through the Lavican

territories, entered the Tuscutan, which they ravaged

without mercy, and laden with spoil, retired to the Algi-

dus, where they encamped.

Q. Fabius, Pubiius Volumnins, and A. Posthumius,

were sent thither, ambassadors from Rome, to complain

of the injuries, and demand restitution, agreeable to treaty.

The general of the Jiqui, in return, ordered them, " to

"deliver their commission from the Roman senate to the

"oak tree; for at present, he had other business to mind."

The oak tree, alluded to, was a large one hanging over

liis tent; and by its branches forming a cool shade.

Then one of the ambassadors, as he departed, said, " Let

