36 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK I.

demanded satisfaction, were very little regarded by

Tatius; for which reason the punishment of his relations

recoiled upon himself; for the people at Lavinuim, where

he was attending some annual solemnity, rose up and

killed him.—It was said of Romulus, that he gave him­

self less concern about this event, than it seemed to claim;

whether it was, that associates in sovereign power are

seldom firm friends, or that he really thought Tatius had

met with the fate he deserved: however, no war follow­

ed. Only, to expiate in some measure the indignity done

the ambassadors, and the murder of the king, the treaty

between the two cities, Rome and Lavinium, was renewed.

Though peace, of which there was little expectation, had

been thus concluded with the Laurentes, another war

broke out much nearer, nay, almost at the very gates of

Rome.

The Fidenates finding the Roman power was growing

too formidable in their neighbourhood, were for striking

a blow before it should arrive at that pitch of greatness,

which the Vapidity of its progress seemed to point at?

Wherefore, having let loose a body of youth in arms,

upon the Roman territory, they laid waste all the coun­

try between Rome and Fidenae. Then turning to the

left, because they were prevented by the Tiber on the

right, they continued their depredations, to the great

terror of the country people, who flying in crowds from

the country to the town, were the first to bring advice

of the irruption.

Roused by this intelligence, Romulus instantly leads

out his army; for the approaches of the enemy were too

near to admit of deliberation. He encamps about a

. mile from Fidenae. Marching put with the main body,

and leaving only a small party'for a guard, he orders a

detachment to ly in ambush, in a place entirely covered

with brushwood: then advancing with the greater part

of the foot, and all the horse, he rode up to the enemy's

gates in a disorderly and blustering manner; by which

he provoked the enemy to sally out, which was all he

aimed at.

The behaviour of the horse too, made the appearance

of a sudden retreat seem less affected; for whilst they

seemed through fear to hesitate whether they should

