54 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK I.

Thus were Duumvirs appointed, who thought, accord­

ing to the letter of the law, they could not acquit him,

even had he been innocent, wherefore, havmg found

him guilty, one of them condemned him in these words:

"Publius Horatius, 1 judge thee guilty of murder; Go,

"Lictor, bind his hands." The Lietor had come up,

and %vas fastening the rope, when Horatius, by the advice

of Tullus, a mild interpreter of the law, cried out, "I ap-

"peal;" upon which the cause was carried before the

people.

During the trial, the judges were moved with com­

passion, especially when old P. Horatius cried out, "That

"it was his own opinion, his daughter had justly me-

"riled her fate; for had he thought bis son criminal,

"he would, by his paternal authority, have punished

<" him." , Then having recourse to' entreaties, conjuring

them not to render him childless now, whom but a little

before, they had seen blessed with an eKcellent progeny.

In the mean time, the old ma'n embracing his sou, and

pointing to the spoils of the Curiatii, deposited-in that

place, which they now. call Pila Hnratia: "Is it possi­

ble, (continued he,) O Romans! that you can tamely

l>i-lu Id this brave champion, who but a little while

ago, walked in your sight, glorious and triumphant,

adorned with the spoils of your enemies, bound to ait

infamous stake,—expiring amidst scourging and tor­

tures? A spectacle so shocking that even the Albaas

could hardly bear! Go, Lictor; bind those victorious

hands, which so lately, in arms, acquired empire for

the people of Rome; veil the head of the deliverer of

this city; hang him on an accursed tree; scourge him

"either within the Pomrerium, so it be done amidst the

"Pila Horatio.,* and spoils obtained by his valour, or

"without the Pomoarimn, provided it be among the

"tombs of the Curiatii: For which way can you lead

"this youth, where he shall not find in the monuments

"of his glory, a protection against the ignominy of such

"a punishment."

The people could not hold out against the tears of

* A square pillar built of stone.

