CM AH. 12. ROMAN HISTORY. 419

And yet these men, convicted and -damned as they

have been before so many tribunals, have the assur*

anoe to #j*pear before the people, expecting to be ac­

quitted," mtagining they have been sufficiently punish­

ed in losing the fasces two months before the time.

They do not seem to know the difference between dis­

arming them for fear of further mischief and punishing

them for what they have done. Were not their col­

leagues broke who had committed no fault? Upon this

occasion, the Romans ought to recal those dispositions

they felt on their late defeat, when they saw their

army covered with wounds, flying, affrighted, and fal­

ling down at the gates of Rome, accusing not fortune,

ftor the gods,-but'these two generals. They may rest

assured, that there is not a soul in this assembly, who

that day did not heartily curse and detest L. Virginius

a<id M. Sergius, their families, and all that belonged to

them. Is it fit then, that after invoking the gods to

punish these crimmals, that they should receive the

least indulgence from those who have them in their

power, which they ought to exert against them? For

the gods are never the executors of vengeance them­

selves; it is enough that they furnish the injured with

an opportunity of revenge.'

. CHAP. XII. .

Sergius and Virginius condemned. A Plebeian elected to

the military Tribuneship for the first time

T

HE people, irritated by these harangues, condemned

the criminals, each in a fine of 10,000 asses of brass,*

nor would give any ear to Sergius's plea, of the chance

and fortune of war, nor to Virginitis's intreaty, not to ren­

der him more unhappy at home than he had been in the

field. The resentment of the people being turned totally

against these two generals, quite cancelled the remem­

brance of the co-optation of tribunes, and of the treacher­

ous attempt upon the Trebonian law. The tribunes, after

this victory, to give the people an immediate return for

their sentence, published the Agrarian law, and forbade

• , *

» j£ 32: i : 9|.

