CHAP. 3. ROMAN HISTORY.

tuals and sleep, and next morning, as soon as it was

^ight, the Roman army was drawn up, a little before

the /Equi made their appearance, who, at length, -ad­

vanced in battalia.

The battle was obstinate on both sides. Revenge and

passion animated the Romans, whilst the .ffilqui, conscious

of having involved themselves in this difficulty, by their

perfidy; and despairing of future credit,. were stimulated

to make the boldest efforts. They could not, however,

stand the charge of the Roman army, but were defeated,

and obliged to retire into their own country. Notwith­

standing of this chastisement, they were as little as ever

"inclined to peace, the licentious populace, upbraiding

their leaders with risking their cause to a pitched battle,

in which the excellency of the Romans consisted. That

the /Equi succeeded best, when disposed in plundering

•parties, by making inroads, and that it was much safer

to trust to an irregular Vvar, by skirmishing parties pro­

perly disposed, than to their whole force, in one decisive

action.

CHAP. III.

\

New attempts of the Mqni, who are discharged.

VV HEREFORE, leaving their camp under a guard,

they sallied out with such fury upon the Roman territo­

ries, that they spread terror, even to the city. The terror

of this invasion was greatly heightened by the surprise;

for an enemy already conquered, and as it were, besieged

• in their camp, could not be in the properest trim for

plundering excursions, and consequently no formidable

object. The country people, struck with a panic, run

up to the very gates, and their fears shewing them every

object in a magnifying glass, cried out, that it was not

small foraging parties, but a regular army, and whole

legions of enemies advancing with every hostile purpose

to storm the city. They who were nearest the gates,

retailed this intelligence to others, and the farther it

spread, the more it was magnified'. Such was the con­

fusion and noise whilst they called to arms, that, had

the city been taken, the terror could not have been much

K

