CHAP. $. ROMAN HISTORY. 451

aid against the Gauls. The tradition is, that the Gauls,

charmed with the excellent fruits, and especially with.

the'delicious wines of Italy, which they had never tasted

before, crossed the Alps, and seized upon lands which

had formerly been in possession of the Etrurians; and

that Arunx, a Clusian, had imported wine into Gaul, to

entice that nation to make the invasion, out of resent­

ment that Lucumo had debauched his wife, in return for

his attention as his tutor, and from whom he could get

no satisfaction, his interest being very considerable, un­

less he was supported bv foreign aid: in consequence ofi.

which, that he conducted the Gauls over the Alps, and*^

advised them to the siege of Clusium.

I will not pretend to say, that the Gauls might have

Leen brought to Clusium by this Arunx, or some other

inhabitant of the place; but it is very certain, that those

who laid siege to Ciusium were not the first who had

crossed the Alps: for the Gauls had found the way to

Italy, two hundred years before the siege of Clusium,

or the capture of Rome. .Nor was it these Etrurians

whom the Gaulic troops first encountered, but long be­

fore, who inhabit the country between the Appenines

and the Alps, with whom they were frequently at war.

. The Tuscan dominions were of considerable extent, \

both by sea and la,nd, before the Roman empire existed.'

From the upper to the lower sea, by which Italy is sur­

rounded in the form of an island, their very names as­

certain the mighty power of this people, the nations of

Italy calling the one the Tuscan, from the general name

of the people, and the other the Adriatic sea, from Adria,

a Tuscan colony. The Greeks call them the Tyrrhe­

nian and Adriatic seas. This people, in twelve cities, in­

habited the countries-along the coasts of both seas, and

by sending out colonies equal in number to their mo-/ -

t.her cities, first on this side of the Appenines towards^

the lower sea, and afterwards as many on the other side,

possessed all the country beyond the Po, excepting a cor­

ner belonging to the Venetians, who dwelt round & bay

of the sea, as far as the Alps. Nor can it be doubted,

but this too was the origin of the Alpine nations, espe­

cially the Rhetae, whom the situation of their country

hath rendered so wil;{, that they retain nothing of their.

