362 TITUS LIVIUS' . BOOK IV.

'to disputes, where the danger was so great, and the ad-

'vantage nothing; from which he could promise himself

• for certain, eternal persecution from the senators, with

'whom he was to enter the lists; and from the people,

'from whom are all his exertions, no further honour or

• regard. . It is from great honours that great courage

'proceeds; and no Plebeian could think meanly of hiui-

• self, if he ceased to be despised by others. They

• ought certainly, at least, to make a trial, in an instance

'or two, whether any Plebeian be capable to support the

'weight of a great office in the state, and whether it is

'so prodigious an affair, to find a man of real merit and

'valour, born among the people/'

After many a struggle, it was carried, that military tri-.

bunes, with consular power, might be elected, and that

too from the body of the people. Men who had distin­

guished themselves, both in peace and war, offered their

services. In the first years they were insulted, rejected,

and exposed to the ridicule of the senators; and at last,

they would no longer lay themselves open to such af­

fronts. No good reason could be assigned, why a law

should not be entirely abolished, that gave a right which

they were never to use; for, it would be less shameful for

them to be excluded by an unjust law, than passed by

and neglected, for their own personal defects.

CHAP. XXXVI.

Scheme nf the Military Tribunes.

JL HE applause with which harangues of this kind were

received, induced some of the Plebetan order to stand

candidates for the office of military tribune; promising,

some of them to get one, some another law passed, for

the interest of the commons, during their administration.

The people were encouraged to hope for a division of the

public lands among them, an establishment of new co­

lonies, and a tax to be laid on ihe landed interest, to raise

a fund for the payment of the army. The military tri­

bunes took the advantage of a season when few of the

people were in town, having given the senators secret in­

timation to return against a certain day, iu absence ef the

-' ''

