CHAP. 28. ROMAN HISTORY. y-1

CHAP. XXVIII.

Mettus Fuffetius punished,

1 HEN the Alban army, who had only been spectators.

of the action, were led down into the plain. Mettus con­

gratulates Tullus on his victory, and Tullus returns the

compliment with a good grace. He then orders the Al-

bans to join their camp to his, and wishes much prospe­

rity to follow the junction. Preparations are made for a

sacrifice of purification against next day.

All things being prepared, as usual, both armies are

summoned to an assembly. The heralds beginning at

the outmost lines, gave the first intimation to the Albans,

who instigated with curiosity, crowded round the king to

hear his speech. The Roman legion stood round the

Albans, as previously ordered, in arms; and the centu­

rions were appointed to see the orders put in immediate

execution.

Then Tullus addresses himself as follows: "Ifever

"O Romans, in any war, you had reason first to thank

"the gods for their protection, and to congratulate your-

"selves, on your own bravery, it was certainly in yes-

"terday's action. For you had to contend not only

"with your enemy's forces, but what is much more

"dangerous and terrible, with the treachery and perfi-

"diousness of friends. For, be no longer deceived, it

"was not by my orders, the Albans retired to the hills.

"I suffered you to believe, and even declared aloud,

"that it was my command, that you might not take the

"alarm at being deserted, and to spread terror among

"the enemies, who thought they were to have been at-

"tacked in the rear. But all the Albans are not cul­

pable. They followed their iertder as you would

have done, had I given yoa the like orders. It was

Mettus drew them after him: It was Mettus who was

'the contriver of this war: It is Mettus who is the vio-

'later of the Roman and Alban treaty. Let any one

'copy after him, if I do not make him this day a no­

torious example to all mankind." At that instant,

Mettus was surrounded by the Qenturions in arms, and

