170 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK If.

consul returned to Rome, less distinguished for his mili­

tary glory, than the inveterate and unrelenting hatred of

the soldiers against him. The fathers, however, had in­

fluence enough to continue the consulship in the Fabian

family, for they elected M. Fabius consul, aud gave him

C. Manlius for his colleague.

CHAP. XLIV.

Claudius' plan for defeating the tribunes.

\../NE of the tribunes brought the Agrarian law on the

carpet again this year. It was Tib. Pontificius, who go­

ing to work the same way with Sp. Licinius, obstructed

the levies for a little. 'Whilst the fathers were once

more disconcerted with this opposition, Appius Claudius

told them, "That they had baffled the efforts of tribuni-

"tian power the year before; that at present they might

"do it, by employing that power against itself, an ex-

"pedient that would never fail of success, seeing they

"had found, by experience, that it could be cut down

"by its own force. That one of the number might al-

"ways be found, who, proud of defeating his colleagues,

"and gaining the esteem of the better part of the citi-

"zens, would be disposed to promote the good of the

"public. And no doubt, several of these, were it ne- .

"cessary, would be found ready to assist the consuls,

"but one was sufficient against the whole body. That

"therefore the best conduct of the consuls and principal

"senator.-, would be only to exert themselves to bring

"over some one of these tribunes, and attach him to the

"interest of the senate and commonwealth, if their in-

"fluence did not extend to the whole."

The fathers, pursuant to Appius's advice, treated the

tribunes in the most kind and obliging manner; and

those who had been consuls, and had private claims

against any of them, partly by their interest and partly

by their authority, prevailed on them to consent to make

the privileges of the tribunitian power beneficial to the

state. Wherefore, having four to one on their side, the

consuls were enabled to complete the levies. Upon this

they marched agamst the Vejentes, who were supported

by auxiliaries from all parts of Etruria, flocking to them.

