CHAP. 8. < ROMAN HISTORY. 413

• volunteers should receive pay, as if they had been le-

'vied in form.'

On this occasion too, a certain pay was instituted for

the horse; and it was at this time that the cavalry in

general began to receive pay out of the treasury. The

new army of volunteers were conducted to Veii: the

works that had been destroyed by the enemy were not

only restored, but new ones constructed. Provisions were

conveyed from the city with more care and diligence

than ever, that nothing necessary might be wanting to.

an army that deserved so well of the RepubIic.

CHAR VIII.

The Falisci and Vcjentes support Veil, and beat the Romans.

Misunderstanding of the Generals. A. R. 351.'

J. HE military tribunes, for the following year, were

C. Servilius Ahala, for the third time; Q. Servilius, L.

Virginius, Q. Sulpicius, A. Manlius, a second time, and

Manius Sergius, a second time also. Whilst those tri­

bunes were totally intent upon the war with the Vejen-

tes, by the negligence of the governor of the fort at

Anxur, in giving furloughs to the soldiers, and admitting

the Volscian merchants without reserve, the centinels at

the gates were betrayed, and the fort surprised. Few

of the garrison fell in it; as all of them but such as were

sick, followed the business of sutlers in the adjacent

country and neighbouring towns. Neither did they suc­

ceed better at Veii, where the whole care of the public

centered. For the Roman generals hated one another

more heartily than they did the enemy; besides that the

sudden appearance of the Capenates and Falisci had ren­

dered the Vejentes more formidable.

These two Etrurian nations were not without their fears,

that were Veii to fall, they would be the next whom the

Romans would attack, as lying most contiguous for that

. purpose. The Falisci had laid themselves open to the

resentment of the Romans, by taking part,«on a former

occasion, with the Fldenates, when at war with the Re­

public; and now having sent deputies up and down

among the neighbouring states, they bound themselves.

