CHAP. 23. ROMAN HISTORY, 343

He divided his Army into foiir parts, and carried on

his attacks uponMhe walls, in- places very distant from

each oilier. He constantly relieved those who were fa­

tigued, by fresh supplies of men, artd so continued to

skirmish with the,townsmen night and day. By these,

diversions he kept the enemy from perceiving the works

Le was carrying on, till he lta<) digged quite through tlie

bill) and opened a passage all the.way to the castle, and

till the Etrurians having been diverted with the show of

danger, from all attention to the reality, and a confirma­

tion that their city was taken in the enemy's shouts over

their heads. This year, C. Furius Pacilus, and M. Ge-

ganius Macerinus, the censors, fitted up a building In

the Campus Martius, where the census was made for the

first time.

N

CHAP. XXIII.

The conquered are again in motion.

JL FIND in Licinius Macer, that the same consuls, Ici-

lius, a third time, and Virginius, a second, were re-elect­

ed tor the following year. Valerius Antias, and Q. Tu-

IJM-O, mention M. Manlius and Q. Sulpicius, as consuls

for that year. Yet, notwithstanding so great •» differ­

ence, both pretend the authority of the linen books, and

neither refuses, that according to ancient historians, the

public administration, for that year, was vested in mili­

tary tribunes. Licinius follows these linen records as an

oracle of truth, but Tubero is not so confident; so that,

among other things which antiquity has involved in dark-

riess, this too must be left undetermined.

• The taking of Fidenae spread a general alarm through­

out all Etruria. For, the Vejentes w"ere not only in the

most dreadful terror for meeting with the same fate, but

the Falisci too, from the part they had acted in the first

war, although they had no hand in the second. Where­

fore, these two states having dispatched ambassadors to

all the twelve nations, prevailed with ihem to appoint Et

general assembly of all Etruria, at the temple of Voltum-

na; upon which, the senate, as if a cloud had been ready

to burst over their heads, ordered Mamercus

