174 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK IL

about their invectives, and challenge those who had been

so. ready with their tongues, to shew what they can do

.with their swords. All that day the fathers and com­

mons signalized themselves with prodigious acts of va­

lour; but of all others the Fabian name and family dis­

tinguished themselves most, determined in that battle

to recover the affections of the commons, which they

had lost in their disputes at home. The army is drawn

up: nor were the Vejentes and Etrurians backward to

engage.

CHAP. XLVL

A battle. 2. Fabitti killed.

W ITH the enemy it amounted almost to a certainty,

that they would be no more in earnest in fighting

against them, than they were against the /Equi: nor did

they doubt, but something still more gross would ensue,

when their minds were in such a ferment, and at a junc­

ture so very critical. But they were dreadfully disap­

pointed; for in no former action did the Romans en­

gage with greater spirit, so much had they been exaspe­

rated by the enemy's insults, anil the consuls delays.

The Etrurians had scarcely time to draw up, when the

Romans, in the first hurry, having thrown their javelins

at random, rather than with any aim, rushed in with!

their swords, which of all other wenpons make the

bloodiest work.

Among the Patricians, the Fabian family distinguished

themselves by their extraordinary gallantry, and set a

noble example to their fellow citizens. Quintus Fabius,

who had been consul three years before, was the first

who rushed among the thickest of the Vejentes; but be­

ing exposed to enemies on every side, a Tuscan, full of

his strength, and skill in arms, run him through the

breast with his sword; when he was not aware of him.

Fabius, having extracted the blade, and falling forwards,

expired of the wound. Both armies were sensible of the

difference made by the fall of this single officer; and the

Romans had begun to give ground, when M. Fabius

the consul, skipping over thu dead body, and covering

