CHAP. 31. ROMAN HISTORY. 355

ed; but though they were sworn as usual, and demand­

ed restitution in form, no regard was paid to what they

said. After all, a contest arose, whether war should be

denounced by order of the people, or whether a decree

of the senate might be sufficient. The tribunes, by

threatening that they woutd stop the levies, carried that

the consuls should lay before the people, what respected

the war. All the centuries voted for the war. The peo­

ple had the better in this dispute, having also obtained,

that no consuls should be elected for the succeeding year.

CHAP. XXXI.

* . i

Miscarriage of the Military tribunes. A Dictator named.

.17 OUR military tribunes were chosen with consular

authority, Titus Quinctius Pennus, who had been consul,

C. Furiu*. M. Posthumius, A Corneilius Cossus. Of

these Cossus staid at Rome to preside in the city; the

other three, having completed the levies, marched di­

rectly to Veii, where they gave a signal proof of the

pernicious effects in war, of a plurality of commanders ii\

chief; for, as they differed in opinion, and each of them

insisted to have his own plan adopted, they gave the

enemy an opportunity of taking them at a disadvantage.

For while the army had no distinct orders, one command­

ing the signal to be given for battle, another, a retreat

to be sounded, the Vejentes seized that opportunity of

attacking them. They were put in disorder, and fled

back to their camp, which was hard by, so that they

were more disgraced than hurt.

• The city, unaccustomed to defeats, was greatly afflict­

ed ; they, hated tribunes, and cried out for a dictator:

there the whole hopes of the city seemed to centre. But

here again, religion threw an obstacle in the way, that a

dictator could not be named but by a consul. With re­

spect to this point, the augurs were consulted, who sa­

tisfied their scruples. A. Cornelius named Mamercus

^Emilius dictator, who in return named him general of the

horse. Consequently whenever the circumstances of the

state required exalted merit, the censors degradation had

no influence to prevent the people from vesting the admi­

nistration in a family which had been unjustly disgraced*.

