, 3. ROMAN HISTORY. 207

The H«rnici got intelligence of these motions, and

advised the Romans accordingly, that the Ecetrans had

joined in a confederacy with the /Equi. The colony of

Antium was likewise suspected, because, when that

city was taken, many of the inhabitants had fled to the

jEqui, and during the war, had signalized themselves

in their service. When after this, the M<\m were com­

pelled to take refuge within their walls, these troops

retiring privately-, had retired to Antinrn, and encou­

raged the colony, naturally averse to the Roman go­

vernment, to shake off' the allegiance entire!y. Asthey

were not yet in a condition to throw off the mask,

when the senate was informed of their designs, they re­

commended to the consuls to send for the principal men

of the colony, and demand an explanation. They rea­

dily obeyed the summons, and being, 'by the Consuls,

introduced to the senate, returned such answers to vheir

tjuestions, as rather confirmed than lessened the suspi­

cions entertained of there.

After this, the war was looked on as certain. Sp.

Furius, one of the 'consuls, whose province it was,

marched against the .SLijui, and found them busy in lay­

ing waste the territories of the Hernici. Unacquainted

with their numbers, as they had never appeared hi a

body, he rashly gave them battle, when his army was

much inferior; and consequently been routed at the

first charge, fled back to his camp. Nor did the dan­

ger stop here; for, all the succeeding night, and day

after, his camp was so closely blocked up, and so fu­

riously attacked, that to send intelligence to Rome of his

situation was quite impracticable.

The news, however, of the loss ofthe battle, and the

manner in which the consul and the army were blocked

up in the camp, were transmitted by the Hernici. So

much was the senate alarmed at this intelligence, that

they gave it in charge to the other consul, Posthumius,

"To take care, that the republic suffered no detriment;"

a clause, in acts of the senate, expressive of the utmost

danger. It was judged most prudent, that the consul

himself should remain at Rome, to enlist ail who were

able to bear arms, and to dispatch Titus Quinctius, in

