2S4 , TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK III.

petition to the fathers, who therenpon enacted, " That

"the tribunes should give no more trouble about their

"bill for this year, and that the consuls should not

"lead an army out of the city; moreover, that in the

"judgment of the senate, to continue magistrates in

"their office, after the expiration nf their year, and to

*• re-elect the same tribunes, were unconstitutional, and  
"dangerous to the state."" The consuls submitted to the

senate's award, but the tribunes were re-elected, in spite

of all the consuls remonstrances.

The Patricians, to be even with the Plebeians put

Quinctius in nomination for the consulate: but on no

occasion, throughout the whole year, did he exert him­

self with more force and vehemence, than in opposing

the measure. "Is it any wonder," says he, " conscript

"fathers, that the plebeians make light of your autho-

"rity, when you trifle with it yourselves? Because the

"people violate your decision, in contmuing their nia-

"gistrates, you want to do so too, that yo» may not be

"surpassed in impropriety, as if the passports to power

"in the commonwealth, were inconsistency and licen-

"tiousness; for certainly there is more of both, in

"counteracting your own decrees, than infringing those

"of others. Do you, conscript fathers, set up the head-

"strong multitude, as a pattern for your imitation, and

"wiil you, who ought to be an example to others, fol-

"low the crowd to do evil, rather than engage them to

"follow you, by the propriety of your conduct? For

"my own part, I am determined, that I shall not imi-

•' tate the tribunes, in contempt of your decree; I will

"not suffer myself to be re-eIected consul; and I con-

"jure you, C. Claudius, to prevent the Roman people

•' from "acting so unconstitutionally; at the same time,

"be assured, that so far from taking offence at your

"opposition, as a bar to my additional honour, I shall

"always consider it as a mark of your friendship, as en-

"hancing my own glory in the proof of my disinterest-

"edness, ancl an escape from much envy a.nd shame,

"which the continuation in the consulship would un-

"avoidably draw upon me." Upon this, the fathers

issued an edict, " Forbidding all persons to name L.

"Quinctius, at the next elections for the consulate;

