CHAP. SO. ROMAN HISTORY. 353

also sirnamed the imperious, but Posthumius was never

distinguished by any mark of baseness.

C. Julius the consul, whilst his colleague was absent,

dedicated the temple of Apollo,- without casting lots.

Quini-tins did not take it well; and for that reason, after

be had disbanded his army, and returned to the city, he

laid a complaint before the senate, but without effect.—

It is observed, though at that time the Romans seemed

to have little concern in the matter, that in this year, so

remarkable for great events, tor the first time, the Car­

thaginians who were one day to be such terrible ene­

mies to the Roman people, taking advantage of the divi­

sions which prevailed in Sicily, sent an army thither t»

the assistance of one of the contending parties.

CHAP. XXX.

The Vejentes in motion. A terrible drought followed by a

plague. A. R. 323.

HE Tribunes of the commons made a bustle in the

city to get military tribunes with consular power elected

for the ensuing year, but they failed in the attempt.

Lucius Papirius Crassus, and L. Julius were made con­

suls. The JEqui sent ambassadors, requesting the senate

to treat with them; and when instead of a treaty, a

submission at discretion was mentioned, the envoys ob­

tained a truce for eight years. The Volsci, after the

check they had received at the "Algidus, were divided

into parties; and from disputes and reproaches between

those who had declared for war, and those who had ad- .

vised peace, came at last to an open rupture ; so that the

Romans were now at peace with all their neighbours.

The consuls having discovered by means of one of the

tribunes, that the college were preparing a law for fix­

ing the extent of fines, which would be highly agree»

able to the people, they took the start of them, by moving

it themselves. These consuls were succeeded by L. Ser-

gius Fidenas, for the second time, and Hostus Lucretius

Tricipitinus. During their administration, nothir-g me­

morable occurred. Aulus Cornelius Cossus, and Titus

Wuintius Pennus, a second time were their successors in

office. A. R. 324. v , .

V

