9* TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK I.

CHAP. LIV.

Sexttts admitted into the Gabinian council. Gabii reduced.

PON this he was admitted into the council of state,

where, with respect to other matters, he said he would

yield to the old counsellors of the Gabini, as they had

access to know more about them; but with respect to the

war, which he took every opportunity of advising, he

pretended to be a better judge, being intimately acquaint足

ed with the resources of both nations: and, moreover,

such was the intolerable pride of the Roman king, that

it not only subjected him to the odium of the people, but

to the aversion of his own family.

As he thus insensibly stirred up the Gabini to renew

the war, he went in person, with the most alert of their

youth, upon pillaging; parties; and, in all his words and

actions, acted his part so much to the life, that his credit

with the Gabini was quite established. Insomuch, that

at last, he was chosen general, to prosecute the war.

Upon this, some skirmishes happened, between the peo足

ple of Gabii and Rome, in which, for the most part,

the Gabini had the better, who never yet could discover

the cheat; but, from the highest to the lowest, were

positive to a man, that Sextus Tarquinius had' been sent

them by the gods to. lead them on to victory. Among

the soldiers too, the cheerfulness with which he exposed

himself to the dangers and fatigues of war, and the ge足

nerosity he discovered in dividing the plunder, so endear足

ed him to the soldiers, that Tarquin had no more to say

at Rome, than he had at Gabii. Therefore, when he saw

that he could be sufficiently Supported for any attempt,

he dispatches one of his confidents to Rome, to ask his

father, what were his futther commands, for the gods had

given him an unlimited power at Gabii.

To this message, the king, 1 suppose, diffident of the

fidelity of the bearer, returned him no answer in words,

but as if he had meant to consider of the matter walked

into the garden, whither his son's messenger followed

him. As he walked in the garden for some time in

silence, he struck off, it is said, the heads of the tallest

