32 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK I.

legion * was quickly dispatched against them, and com­

ing up with them by forced marches, cut them off, as.

they were dispersed in 'small parties over the country.

Thus was the enemy routed at the first shout and charge,

and their town also taken. As Romulus was returning

in triumph from this double victory, his wife, Hersilia,

wearied out with the importunities of the ravished ladies,

requests of him to be reconciled to their fathers, and re­

ceive them into the city, for by such union, there would

be, between them, a reciprocation of interest. This fa­

vour was easily obtained.

After this he marched against the Crustimini, - who

too had commenced hostilities: But here the resistance

he met with was feeble indeed. The enemy was quite

dispirited by the overthrow of their neighbours. Colo­

nies were sent to each of these places: but on account of

the richness of the soil, the majority enlisted for Crustu-

minium From them too there were frequent emigrations

to Rome, consisting chiefly of the parents and relations

'•-of the ravished ladies. The last, but not the least war

they had on this account, was with the Sabines, they

were neither actuated by passion, nor love of plunder;

nor did they threaten before they were ready to execute.

To expedite their designs, they had recourse to a stra­

tagem. Spurius Turpeius was then governor of the ci­

tadel. With the promise of a sum of money, Tatius

prevailed on a young lady, the governor's daughter, to

permit his soldiers to enter the citadel in arms; by

chance, at that time, she had gone without the walls to

fetch water for some sacred purpose. They whom she

admitted, either because they thought it more honourable,

that it should appear the citadel was taken fairly, or to

make her an example to posterity, that no faith should

be kept with traitors, smothered her under their bucklers.

Because the Sabines, on their left arms, commonly wore

bracelets of great value, and on their fingers, rings set

* From Inhere, to chnse; because the Roman legion consisted  
entirely of chosen men. The number, which at that time consti­

tuted a legion, is not easity ascertained. Ptutarch lays, 3000

foot aml 300 horse.

