CUAP. 2. ROMAN HISTORY.

reasonable thain the former, they would, at the begin­

ning, have fought it fairly, whatever their disadvan­

tages, rather than have such laws wreathed about their

necks. Because they had been indulged at first in tri­

bunes, they must be again indulged. To see an end

of their dissensions, was impossible, so long as senators

and tribunes existed in the same state. Either the Pa­

trician order, or these demagogues, must be kicked

out of the community. It is better late than never at

all, to stem the torrent of their insolence and temerity.

Shall they sow dissension at home, and thereby arm

the neighbouring nations against us; whilst, at the

same time, they prohibit the citizens from repelling an

invasion they had brought upon them, and not smart

for their impudence ? Shall they give every encourage­

ment to the enemy, but the ceremony of an invitation,

and not permit an army to be levied to make head

against them? But this Canuleius has the effrontery to

declare in open senate, that if the Patricians will not

receive his laws, as those ot a despotic conqueror, he

will not suffer a single man to enlist. Ls not this an

open declaration, a plain menace, that he will betray

his country ?—That he will suffer it to be invested, and

calmly stand by and see it takeu? Such a sentiment?

with what courage must it inspire—not the Roman

people—but their declared enemies, the JEqu\, Volsci,

and Vejentes? Conducted by this demagogue, can

they look for any thing less, than the possession of the

citadel and capitol, if the fathers, together with their

dignity and civil rights, do not also surrender to the

tribunes their courage and resolution? But they would

have them to know, that the consuls were determined

to take the lead in extirpating wickedness at home, be­

fore they stirred to oppose the incursions of the enemy,'

CHAP. IIL

Speech of Canuleius.

Vv H1LST these things were warmly insisted on in the

senate, Canuleius, in defence of his laws, and in opposi­

tion to the consuls, spoke to the following effect: 'I

