CHAP. 43. ROMAN HISTORY. 169*

have cemented the jarring parties at home, but they on­

ly served to render the people more insolent and untract-

able. They were now put upofli the old scheme of re­

fusing to iulist. Sp. Licinius, a tribune of the people,

thinking that now was the critical moment, when the

slate was in the utmost difficulty, to cram the Agrarian

law down the throats of the fathers, had set himself to

obstruct the levies. But the whole load of envv, to

which the college of tribunes was exposed, fell upon the

author of this project. For the consuls were not keener

in disappointing bis design, than his own colleague?,

who, to a man, were in concert against him; and, by

their assistance, the consuls got the levies completed.

Against the two hostile powers, two armies were raised

at the same time; the command of the one was given.

to Fabius, to be led against the jEqui, and of the other

to Furius, to march against the Vejentes. With the

Vejentes nothing remarkable occurred; and Fabius had

more trouble in managing his army, than in defeating

the enemy. This man alone supported the common­

wealth, while the army from their hatred to him as

consul, did all in their power to land it in perdition.

For, after the consul, in his preparations for, and ma­

nagement of the war, had given, in every instance, the

most signal proofs of his abilities as a general, he drew

up his army with such judgment, that by means of the

horse alone, be put the enemy to flight; and yet, when

nothing was left for the foot, but to pursue the flying

enemy, they absolutely refused it. Nor could sharne

for their criminal conduct, their present disgrace m the

face of the sun, their future danger, had the enemy re­

covered spirit, to say nothing of the entreaties of a ge­

neral whom they hateJ, prevail on them to move one

foot faster, nor even to march. in good order. But they

, retired without orders, and went back to the camp, with.

looks so expressive of their dejection, that one would

- have imagined they had been heartily drubbed. Some­  
times cursing their general, and sometimes the horse, for

their gallant exertions. The general gave himself no

trouble about fmding out an antidote for so- dangerous a

precedent, so true it is, that great men, who excel in

other respects, more frequently want address to govern .

their citizens, than talents to conquer enemies. The

