CHAP. 56. ROMAN HISTORY. 283

injury, is liable to the pains of law. For which reason,

an ^Edile may be arrested and imprisoned by a superior

magistrate; which, though not expressly warranted by

law, for it is hurting a man, who by this law is secured ;.

yet it is an argument against it, that the person of an

jEdile is not sacred. They likewise maintain, that the

tribunes were declared sacred, by an oath of the people,

at the first institution of their office. It is also asserted

by some, that the consols, and the praetors also, chosen

tmder the same auspices with thenv have the privilege

of this law, as the consul comes under the denomination

of a judge. But, as" the praetors at that time, not the

consuls, were considered as judges, this explanation of

the law is madmissible.

The same consuls also ordained, that the decrees of

the senate, which before that, the consuls could suppress

or alter, should for the future be deposited in the temple

of Ceres, and kept by the /Ediles. Duilius then brought

in a bill, which the people passed into a law, " That

"whoever should deprive the people of their tribunes,

"or create a magistrate without appeal, should be scour-

"ged with rods, and lose his head." Though the Patri­

cians opposed none of these laws, as none of them had

been personally injured, yet they did not receive them

without regret.

CHAP. LVI.

Appim brought to his trial by Virginius.

1 HE authority of the tribunes, and the liberties of the

people being thus established, they thought it was high

time now, to call the decemvirs to account, but not by

the lump, only one by one, in consequence of which,

Virginius was pitched on as the first prosecutor, and

Appius, in course was the defendant. When the day

/or Appius's trial was come, he stept into the forum,

escorted by a band of young Patricians, which gave

every one a retrospect of those melancholy days, when

the same Patricians, like so many guards, made up his

train.

Virginius then addressed himself to the people, to the

