250 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK 111.1

Claudius and Genucius, to balance the consular fasces to

which they had been preferred this year, and to Sestius,

one of the consuls the preceding year, because he had

brought that affair before the senate, though his colleague

was entirely against it. Next to these were named the

three commissioners, who had been sent to Athens, as a

compliment due to them for their trouble in executing a

commission at such a distance, at the same time it was

thought that men acquainted with foreign laws, would be

of some consequence in instituting a body of laws cal­

culated for their own meridian. Those who succeeded

in the list completed the number; but they who were

named last, were too old, as some say, to oppose, with a

sufficient degree of resolution, the sentiments of their col­

leagues.

Appius, by the favour he had acquired among the

people, had the modelling of their magistracy. For he

had so far new-modelled his temper, that from being the

most austere Patrician, who crossed the Plebeians in all

their claims and pretensions, he suddenly became a very

Poplicola, solely intent upon pleasing the multitude and

acquiring their affection.

Each of these new magistrates, in his turn, administer­

ed justice every tenth day, when he bad the fasces borne

before him : each of the oilier nine being that day only

attended by a single officer*.

The perfect unanimity that prevailed among them­

selves, far from being prejudicial to particulars, which

is too often the case, was attended with the strictest equi­

ty, in regard to all the citizens. We shall only men­

tion a single anecdote, as an instance of their moderation.

By the tenor of their institution, from their judgment

there could be no appeal: yet when a corpse was detect­

ed, and" dug up in the house of P. Sestius, by birth a

Patrician, and exposed in the public assembly; in a case

so glaring and atrocious, the decemvir, C. Julius, ap­

pointed him a day for his trial; and though he was the

legal judge himself in the cause, yet he appeared as the

public prosecutor before the people, derogating from his

own authority as decemvir, to add to that of the people.

•-. This officer was called Accensus, el acciendo.

