196 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK II.

more warmly to save any one of (heir order. They

could not see, without extreme concern, the guardian of

the senate, the avenger of their dignity, and the invin­

cible bulwark of their rights, against the attacks of the

tribunes and their abettors, given up to the rage of the

populace, and that only because his passion had carried

him a little beyond the bounds of moderation, in the heat

of the dispute.

Of all the senators, Appius was the only one that

held the tribunes, the people, and the judgment they

were about to pass, in sovereign contempt. Neither the

threats of the commons, nor ail the entreaties of the se­

nate, couM ever prevail upon him even to change his

dress, or humble himself to solicit the favour of his judges:

nay, nor in making his defence, to abate anything of his

usual haughtiness, or sharpness of stile. In every thing,

lie retained the same externals, the same air of confidence,

and the same boldness of speech; so that the people, for

the most part, were no less awed by him, wheti cited

before them as a criminal, than they were before, when

he was consul. He pleaded his cause once, but then it

was with his usual tone, and the authority of an accuser;

and so much were the people and tribunes astonished at

his resolution, that unsolicited, they put off his trial to a

future day, and thereafter were prevailed on to renew the

prorogation. But, before that day arrived, he died of a

distemper. The tribunes attempted to hinder the pro­

nouncing his funeral oration; but the people would not

consent that so great a man should be deprived of an

honour so justly his due. They heard his praise after

his death, wiih as much pleasure as they had his accusa­

tion when alive. Nay, many of them assisted at his fu­

neral.

'CHAP. LXII.

The country of tlie jEqui and Sabines plundered.

J. HIS same year, Valerius the consul, led an army

against the /Equi, and fmding it impracticable to draw

them to a battle, attempted to storm their camp. A ter­

rible tempest accompanied with thunder and hail, put a

