CHAP, 43. ROMAN HISTORY. tfl

and every member of the state, and for.their own part,

they had neither the inclination nor the power of depriv­

ing the people of their prerogative'in judging the accus-

ed; but if,their earnest intieaties in behalf of their ge­

neral, who had been to them an indulgent parent, could

not prevail, they would go into mourning with him.

Nay,' replied Hortensius, ' but that shall not be; the

commons of Rome shall not see their tribunes into

mourning. 1 have nothing farther to say against C.

Sempronius, who by his behaviour in command, could

endear him so effectually to his soldiers.'

The gra'eful affection of the four tribunes, did not

give greater pleasure i<-> the senators and people, who

were equally affected, than^he good nature of Horten­

sius, which disposed him to yield so readily to their

reasonable request. Fortune did not continue long to

fawn upon the 5kjni, whose mercury rose as high upon

this doubtful victory of the Volsci, as if they themselves

bad been crowned with laurels.

CHAP. XUII.

The JEqui in motion, suppressed. New contest.—Wise

counsel of L. Papirius Mugilanus.

.L\ EXT year, in 'the consulship of Numerius Fabius

Vibulanus, and T. (Juinctius Capitolinus, the son of

Capitolmus, Fabius, who h.'d got the direction of the

war by lot, performed nothing memorable; for the .ffiqui

had no sooner shown their faces* than like a convention

of cowards* they took to their heels J so that the consul

gained no great honour, and of course was refused a tri­

umph.. Yet because this victory served in some measure

to extenuate the reproach of the Sempronian disaster, he

wa« permitted to enter the city with an ovation. As this

war was brought to a conclusion, with less trouble than

had been apprehended, so also in the city there anise,

out .of a profound calm, an unexpected storm of dissen­

sion between the senate and the people, which had its

foundation in a proposal to double the number of the

quaestors.

