CHAP. 32 ROMAN HISTORY. ( 449

I

conjunction with the Salpenates,* they made an incursion

upon the Roman lands, without the least provocation.

War was then declared against both nations. In the

mean time, C. Julius, one of the censors, was carried off,

and L. Cornelius substituted in his place; a thing after­

wards deemed inauspicious, because Rome was taken in

that lustrum. Nor after this time did the Romans ever-

substitute, in the place of a censor who died in his office,

another person to be colleague to the survivor. The

consuls too falling sick,'the senate decreed that they

should abdicate, and an inter-regnurii ensue. The con­

suls having therefore demitted in terms of the senate's

decree, M. Furius Camillus was created inter-rex, and

succeeded by Cornelius Scipio, and he again by Valerius

Potitus^-who held the comitia, for the election of six mi­

litary tribunes with consular power, that in case any of

them should be seized with the distemper, the Republic

might never want magistrates.

CHAP. XXXII.

Tlie Volsinienses chastised. A prudigy. Camillus banished.

.". A. R. 361.

V,/N the first of July, L. Lucretius, Servius Sulpicius, M.

.SLmilius, L. Furius Medullinus, a seventh, Agrippa

Furius, and C. /Emilius, a second time, entered upon that

magistracy. The war with the Volsinienses fed by lot

to L. Lucretius and C. jEmilius; and with the Salpenates

to Agrippa Furius, and Servius Sutpicius. The first en­

gagement they had was with the Volsinienses, who were

more formidable for their numbers -than their prowess.

For they were routed and put to flight at the first onset,

and 8000 men in arms being surrounded by the Roman

cavalry, laid down their arms and surrendered at discre­

tion. The news of this battle cooled the ardour of the Sal­

penates, so that they durst not appear in the field, but shut

themselves up, armed as they were, within their walls.

The Romans pillaged both the Volsinran and Salpina-

*-The Volsinienaes and Salpenates were both nations ofEtruriv  
The former inhabited a considerable city, Volsinium, the capital

of one of the twelve Lucumonies, situated near the modern Bo­

logna. Of Salpiaum nothing certain can be affirmed.

