74 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK I.

CHAP. XL.

Turfjuin killed by a plot of the tons of Marcius^

1. ARQUIN having reigned now upwards of thirty-

seven years, Servius Tullius had not only by far the

greatest share of the royal favour, bi.t also stood very

high in the esteem of both senate and people. About

this time also, the two sons of Marcius, who had always

reflected with indignation that their guardian had art­

fully tricked them out of their father's kingdom, and

secured it to himself, a stranger descended of no family

in Rome, nay, not even in Italy; when they observed

that the kingdom was not like to revert to them, even

after the death of Tarquin, but to become the perquisite

of the refuse of mankind, set no bounds to their resent­

ment. "What! said they, shall the Roman state, a

century after Romulus, its founder and sovereign,

while on earth, whose extraction was divine, and him­

self ranked among the gods, be given to a slave ?—

the son of a slave, to reign over it, while we, the sons

of Ancus are living? Shall the Roman throne lie open

not only to strangers, but even to slaves? Would not

this be a reproach to the Roman name, and an inde-

"lible stain on that illustrious house, which can never

"be wiped off"?"

By the sword, therefore, they resolve to do themselves

justice. But their indignation for the injuries they had

received, was rather excited against Tarquin than Ser­

vius; as the revenge of a king was more to be dreaded

than that of a private man: moreover, should they de­

stroy Servius, Tarquin might provide himself in another

son-in-law, who could also succeed him; for these rea­

sons the plot was laid against the king himself. Two of

the most resolute among the shepherds were chosen for

executing their villainous purpose. They had each such

iron instruments as they used to carry in the country;

and pretending to quarrel at the gate of the palace,

made such a prodigious noise, that they brought all the

officers of the court about them. Then, when they both

appealed to the king, the noise they made reaching the

