CHAP. 48. ROMAN HISTORY-. «5

a crime, being astonished at the surprising revolution,

and fully convinced it was all over with Servius.

Then Tarquin began his invectives against the king,

with the obscurity of his birth: " That being a slave,

"and the son of a slave, he had, afier the cruel murder

of Tarquin his father, possessed himself of the king­

dom; not after an inter-regnum, according to custom,

nor by the free voices of the people, nor the approba­

tion of the senate, but by the mere artifice of a wo­

man. Thus descended, and thus created king, he had

ever been the favourer of mean wretches like himself;

and, out of hatred to the Patricians for their noble

birth, he had stript them of their estates, to distribute

them among the vilest of the people: That the bur­

dens, which before were common to all, he had heaped

on the nobles alone: That he had instituted the census,

that the fortunes of the rich might be more visible to

"the eye of envy, and be ready, whenever he had a.

"mind, to throw them away among beggars."

CHAP. XLVIII.

Tullius murdered by L. Tarquin, at the instigation of •

Tullia.

VV HILST he was yet speaking, Servius appeared, hav­

ing been alarmed with the news of what was going on,

and immediately from the porch of the senate-house cries

out with a loud voice, "What is it you mean, Tarquin?

"What is it that has made you so audacious, to convene

"the senate and take possession of my throne, while I

"am alive: I only take possession, replied he sternly, of

"my father's throne, to which, I am surely much better

"entitled than my father's slave, a slave that has been

"too long permitted to insult his masters." The parti-

zans on both sides set up a shout, and the people crowd­

ed into the senate-house; it seeming now to be past a

doubt, that the sovereign power would follow the victory

in this struggle.

Then Tarquin, compelled by necessity to out-brave

every difficulty, having much the advantage in youth

and strength, seized Servias by the waist, and carrying

E

