»64 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK II.

"How violent soever your resentment and thirst ibr re-

"venge, did not the sight of these plains disarm your

"rage? And when you came within sight of Rome, did

"you not then think within yourself, those walls which I

"am about to attack, contain all that is dear tome in the

"wortd—mv house—my household gods—my mother—-

"my .wife—mv children ! Alas! had I not been a mother,

. " Rome would not have been besieged. Had I not had

"a son, I should have died free, in a free country. But

"1 can suffer nothing now that is not more shameful for

"you, than miserable for me; nor can my misery, how-

"ever great at present, be of long continuance. Let

"these infants be your care, who, if you persist, must

"either suffer an untimely death, or a long servitude."

His wife and children then saluted him. The tears

and lamentations of all the Roman ladies, for their own

account and that of their country, at length softened

Coriolanus. He embraced his relations, and dismissed

them; soon after he decamped, and marched his army

back from the city.—Accoiding to some accounts, the

Volsci were so exasperated at his withdrawing the legi­

ons from the Roman territory, that they put him to death.

.Others give a different account of the matter. Fabius,

by far the most ancient author extant, affirms, that he

lived to a great old age; and mentions a saying of his in

the decline of life, " that banishment was iti all cases in-

"supportable, but especially to an old man."

The men were not jealous of the encomiums bestowed

upon the women: for such was their disinterestedness,

that none endeavoured to detract from the glory of ano­

ther. To preserve the remembrance of so singular an

event by a public monument, they built and dedicated

a temple to Female Fortune. The Volsci once more, in

conjunction with the /Equi, returned into the Roman ter­

ritory; but the jEqui refused to fight under the command

of Attius Tullus. This contest about the nomination of

a general, who should command both armies, was pro­

ductive at first of a quarrel, which ended in a bloody

battle. There the fortune of the Roman people dispatched

two formidable armies, in a battle no less fatal to the

combatantsi, than it was obstinate.

The consuls for the ensuing year, were T. Sicinius and

