144 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK II.

dantly evident, they did not raise him to an office so

much above bis rank, with a view to his particular ho­

nour, as to offer an open insult to the consuls. This af­

front set Appius and the senate'in a terrible rage; but

the people, who had now acquired more spirit, acted

very differently from what they had done at first. For

despairing now of any redress from the consuls and the

senate, when they saw any debtor dragged to the tribu­

nal, thither they crowded from all quarters. Whenever

the consul passed sentence, they raised such a noise and

clamour that it could not be heard; nor if it had, durst

any one attempt to put it in execution. Force now uni­

versally prevailed. Insomuch, that when a single debtor

had been seized by a posse of officers in presence of the

consul, danger and fear of servitude shifted sides, and

from the debtors flew upon the creditors.

Add to these intestine calamities, the terror of a war

with the Sabines; for which, when a levy was decreed,

not a man would give in his name, whilst Appius was all

fury, loudly complaining of the complacency of his col­

league, who, by a popular silence, betrayed the interests

of his country, and besides, that he had not done justice,

in respect to the debts, had neglected to make the levies

decreed by the senate. "Yet, that the commonwealth

"was by no means abandoned, nor the consular dignity

"without force, whilst he alone remained to support his

"own authority and the honour of the senate,"

When the mob, hardened in licentiousness by constant

use, stood about him, he ordered a remarkable ringleader

of the sedition to be seized, who,, after he was in the

custody of the lictors, appealed to the people. The con­

sul would not have suffered this appeal to pass, being

well aware what the people's judgment would be, had be

not, though with difficulty, been overpersuaded, rather

by the wise remonstrances and authority of the senate,

than compelled by the seditious clamours of the people.

The evil grew every day more serious. The multitude

confmed themselves no longer to mere outcrie? , but what

was of a much more dangerous tendency, they retired in

parties to hold secret committees. At length, the con­

suls quitted their office, bofli hated >)y the people: Ap­

pius was, however, much in the good graces of the senate,

but Servilius neither of senate nor people.

