*72 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK V.

CHAP. XLVI1I.

Pestilence. Famine. A Compromise.

JtjUT now famine began to distress both parties, more

than all the calamities consequent on the siege of the war.

Add to this, that a pestilential distemper raged among the

Gauls, who were encamped in a valley between two bitls,

rendered excessively hot by the flames of the houses, and

smoke issuing from them, at the same time, that the least

blast of wind made not only the dust, but the ashes in足

supportable. The Gauls, who had been accustomed to

a moist and cold climate, could not support under these

inconvenience?, but oppressed with the excessive best,

and a lowness of spirits, they died like rotten sheep; in足

somuch, that they could no longer be troubled with bury足

ing them one by one, but piled them up in heaps pro足

miscuously, and set fire to them at once; rendering the

place famous, by the name of the Gaul's burying-place.

After this, a suspension of arms was agreed on by both

parties, during which, by permission of the generals,

the troops had frequent intercourse together; and whilst

the Gauls insisted principally on the short allowance to

which the besieged were reduced, and advised them to

surrender on that account; to remove such thoughts, i

is said, they threw loaves from the capiiol, at dill ere u

places, into the posts of the enemy.

But, by this time, the famine had risen to such an

height, that it could neither be concealed, uor endure

any longer. Therefore, while the dictator was levyin

troops in person at Ardea, having dispatched L. Vale

rius, general of the horse, to march the troops from-

Veii, and was making every preparation to act on th

offensive with the enemy ; the army in thecapitol, quit

exhausted with hard duty and watching, though they

had bravely surmounted all other human obstacles, a

gainst the cravings of nature their courage could furnish

them with no antidote, and being every moment on tha

watch for assistance from the dictator, at length theif

hopes failed them with the provisions, whilst their en-

icbled bodies sunk under the pressure of their arms al

mounted guard, insisted absolutely to surrendei

'

