CHAP. IS. ROMAN HISTORY. 131

were just about to scale the walls, when the town surren­

dered. The Arunci, however, shared the same. fate as if

the city had been taken by assault; for the principal ci­

tizens were all beheaded, the rest sold for slaves, the city

raited, and estates exposed to sale. The consuls obtained

the honour,of a triumph, rather in compliment to the se­

verity of the revenge taken on the enemy, than the im­

portance of the war they had finished. • ,

CHAP. XVIII.

A Dictator created at Rome.

1.N the following year, Posthumus Cominius and T.

Lartius, succeeded to the consulate. During the cele­

bration of the games at Rome, as some of the Sabine

yotuh were hurrying along with them some women of

the town in a frolic, the mob rose upon them, and the

scuffle that ensued had well nigh ended in a bloody bat­

tle ; and-this circumstance, however inconsiderable in it­

self, seemed to put the whole nation in a ferment. Add

to this, the dread of a war with the Latins: certain intel­

ligence they received, that thirty different nations had

entered into a confederacy against them, at the instiga­

tion ofOctavius Marnilius.

Whilst the city was under the greatest concern about

the event of such mighty preparations against them, the

nomination of a dictator was proposed for the first time;

but in what year it happened, and who were the con­

suls that were suspected to be in Tarquin's interest, is

extremely uncertain. Nor does history authorise us to

say, who was the first dictator. The most ancient histo­

rians condescend upon Titus Lartius, as being the first

that was raised to that high office; and on Spurius'Cas-

sius, as his general of the horse. To men of consular

dignity, by the law made for the election of a dictator,

their choice was confmed. For which reason, I should

rather imagine, that Lartius, who had been consul, was

.appointed to an office superior to the consulate, rather

than Manius Valerius, the son of Marcus, and grandson

of Volesus, who .as yet had never been invested with the

consular dignity. For had they pointed :particularly at

