CHAP. 39. ROMAN HISTORY. 459

made too on the banks of the Tiber, whither the whole

left wing had retreated, after they had thrown down their

arms: many who knew not bow to 8vyim, or could not,

being weighed down by their coats of mail and other ac­

coutrements, were swallowed up by the waves. The

greatest part, however, got safe to Veii, from whence,

•they were so far from sending relief to Rome, that they

never once thought of dispatching a courier with the

news of their misfortune. The right wing, which was

posted nearer the hill, and at a great distance from the

river, marched all to Rome, and took refuge in the cita­

del, without staying to shut the gates of the city behind

tneiii. : .'

CHAP. XXXIX.

The Gauls enter Rome. The flower of the Romans fy to

.the Citadel and CapiteL

.T\. VICTORY so suddenly obtained, astonished the

Gauls so muchj that they considered it as something mi­

raculous. At first, awed by fjear,. they stood motionless,

as if they had known nothing of what had happened.

They stil'l dreaded stme ambuscade, but at last began to

strip the slainj and pile up the arms, according to their

custom. After all, when they saw nothing like an ene­

my appear, they set out for Rome, which they reached

a. little before sun-set. When the horse that were de­

tached before theni, brought back word that the gates

were open, no guards posted before them, nor any sol­

diers on tire walls, they considered it as a continuation

of the same miracle; and. not .knowing what the night

might bring forth, at the same time that they were utter

fi "angers to the situation of the city, they encamped be­

tween the Anio and the city, and sent out scouts round

the walls and the gates of the city, to bring intelligence

of the enemy's designs, now that their situation was ex- .

tremely critical.

At Rome, as the greatest part of the army had fled to

Veii, nobody imagining that one of them had escaped

but those who had made good their retreat to Rome, and .

the whole city lamenting the loss of the living, as well

as the dead, there was nothing to be seen but tears a.nd

