. . TO TIJE PUBLIC. ix

ages: and when we consider the various accomplishments

and requisites for executing it well, the reason why the

most learned and polished nations have produced so few

perfect historians, will be abundantly obvious. To com­

plete this character, the philosopher, the politician, the

general, the orator, and the man of the world, must all

be united in one and the same person. To accuracy and

• diligence in his researches; symmetry, and proportion

in the arrangement of his matter; elegance, and nervous­

ness of diction; freedom and impartiality in his reflexions,

he must join a thorough acquaintance with the consti­

tution of the state whose history he writes, and the dis-*

criminating characters of its various ages; an intimate

knowledge of the human heart; and above all, an honest,

virtuous, steady, and unbiassed disposition. The more

extended the subject, the greater variety of examples it

exhibit?, the more genius it requires to treat it with pro­

priety, and the more extensive the advantages to be de­

rived from it.

The subject upon which Livy treats, accurately con­

sidered in evejy circumstance, is perhaps the most beau­

tiful and richest that possibly can be conceived. The

Romans were a people, who from an origin the most

obscure and inglorious, by correcting what was amiss iu

their manners, by prudence in their councils, by activity

and address in the executing of their plans, by secrecy

and fidelity in their negociations, by strictness of disci­

pline civil and military, and by their unshaken firmness

and fortitude, amidst the most imminent dangers, arrived

to fL pitch of glory almost incredible, which they owed

alone to the vigour of their constitution, and their virtu­

ous principles: so that their history furnishes us with all

that is great,—with all that is excellent,—with all that

is truly noble.

In contemplating this mighty empire, the imagination

musfrbe highly delighted, when the virtues which pro­

moted its elevation, and the vices which hastened its ruin,

pass in reuiew before it. It is here, where we can ex­

amine the most illustrious characters with candour and"

impartiality, unbiassed by prejudice, and undazzled by

greatness. Can the understanding be more enlarged, or

the judgment be letter confirmed, than in living thus

over past.ages, profiting try their experience, and

