'CHAP. 55. ROMAN HISTORY. 95

poppies with his cane. The messenger being oat of all

patience with begging and waiting for an answer, return­

ed to Gabii, no wiser than when he left it. However, of

what he said himself, and what he had occasion to ob­

serve, he makes a faithful relation; adding moreover,

that Tarquin, whether from passion, resentment, or pride,

never once deigned to open his mouth.

The moment Sextus had unriddled these dark hints,

he puts to death the most eminent men of the city, some

by accusing them to the people, others became proper

objects of his revenge, by envying his greatness. Many

of them were executed publicly; others, against whom

the indictment could not be so clearly proved, were made

away with privately. Some were permitted to make

their escape, and some were banished; but in whatever

manner they were disposed of, whether dead or alive, if

they were out of the way, their estates were confiscated

and divided among the people. The sweets of plunder,

and the private emolument arising from these largesses,

extinguished, in the people, all sense of feeling for the

public calamities, till destitute of counsel, and void of all

resources, the state of Gabii became an easy prey to

Tarquin, without striking a stroke.

CHAP. LV.

Tarquin turns his attention to the affairs of the city.

JL ARQUIN having thus got possessionof Gabii, made

a peace with the ./Equi, and renewed the treaty with the

Etrurians. He then turned his attention to the affairs

of the city, particularly to the building a temple to Ju­

piter, on the Tarpeian mount, which he might leave as

a monument of his name and reign, since of (he two Tar-

quins who had reigned at Rome, the first had vowed

this temple, and the last had finished it. And that the

area of this temple might be clear of the worship of

other gods, and totally appropriated to Jupiter, he re­

solved to deprive several small temples and chapels of

their consecrated honours, which had been vowed by

Tatios in the heat of the battle he had fought- with Ro­

mulus, and afterwards hallowed and dedicated.

