CHAP. 54. ROMAN HISTORY. 281

the city in their retinue. Another pa*t of the people

went out from the camp to meet them. They congra-.

tulated each other upon the recovery of peace and li­

berty. Then the deputies, having called an assembly,

delivered themselves to this purpose: "Return, soldiers,

"to your country, your household gods, your wives and

"children; and may your return be attended with all

"the prosperity, success, and felicity to yourselves and

"the republic, which your hearts can desire! Return,

"however, with the same moderation to the city, you

"have hitherto observed, when so great a multitude,

"in a necessity so urgent and so general, have not in-

"jured a single field. March back to the Aventine,

"whence you came. There, in that place of happy

"augury, where you laid the first foundation of your

•' liberty, create tribunes of the people. The high-

"priest will be there, to preside in your assembly."

The joy, upon this occasion, was general and exces­

sive, and expressedjn the loudest acclamations. Imme­

diately the army snatched up their ensigns, and march­

ed to Rome, congratulating all they met, and receiving

their congratulations. They passed through the city

with profound silence, and halted upon Mount Aventine,

where the high-priest immediately holding the assembly,

they elected their tribunes. A. Virginius was first nam­

ed, then L. Icilius, and P. Numitorius, Virginia's uncle,

as the chief promoters of the secession. After them,

C. Sicinius, a descendant of that Sicinius, who is said

to have been created the first tribune upon the sacred

. Mount: and M. Dnilius, who had distinguished himself

in the office of tribune, before the institution of the de-.

eemvirate, and ever after had stood firm against them,

in the interest of the people: five others were chosen,

M. Titinius, M. Pomponius, C. Apronius, P. Villius,

C- Oppius, more in expectation of future, than for past

services.

I As soon as they entered upon office, on a motion of

Icilius they enacted, that no person should be prose­

cuted for separating from the decemvirs. Duilius, at the

same time, passed a bill for the election of consuls, with

ti'e right-of appeal to the people< All these things were

.

