352 '; TITUS LIVIUS". BOOK IV.

\

CHAP. XXIX.'

The Dictator returns in tiiumph. f

J. HE fury of Messius" attack, with a troop of young

intrepid soldiers, opened them a passage over ihe bodies

of their slain, to the camp of the Volsci, which wan not

'yet taken. Our whole army followed him thiiher.

The consul pursued the scattered enemy up to their

lines, .which he attempted to force, and make himself

master of their camp. The dictator, on another side,

led on bis troops to the attack: The work here 'was full

as warm as in the battle. The consul, it is said, threw

an ensign into the entrenchments, with a view to ani­

mate the soldiers to advance with all the ardour possi­

ble; and the first impression they made was owiug to

their noble exertions in recovering their colours. The

dictator to, having dismounted the palisadoes, had al­

ready entered the enemy's camp sword in hand; upon

which the enemy began to lay down their arms, and

surrender at discretion' This camp being also taken,

all the enemy, the senators excepted, were sold for

slaves^ Part of the plunder was restored to the Latins

and Hernici, who could point out what belonged to

themselves. The remainder the dictator sold by auction,

and having left the consuls to command the troops that

remained in the camp, he returned to Rome in triumph,

.and immediately laid down his office.

Those authors, \ybo aver that A. Posthumius caused

the head of his son to be struck off, because he had

quitted his post without orders, upon seeing an opportu­

nity of striking a blow, -in which he succeeded, greatly

abridge the glory of this dictatori-hip. For my own

part, 1 cannot believe it; and yet, amidst so many opi­

nions, one may be led to believe it. What couviuces

me that there must be a mistake, is, that such instances

•of severity are calted the orders of Manlius, and not of

Posthumius; and there is no doubt but he who first set

such a rigid precedent, would have entailed upon him-

uelf a title charactei-istical of his severity. Manlius wai

