CHAP. 5, ROMAN HISTORY. 209

having sold his life as dear as possible. Upon the news

of his brother's disaster, the consul returned to the en­

gagement, and rushing with more haste than caution,

among the thickest of the epemy, he was wounded, and

with difficulty carried off the field by those about him;

a circumstance which dispirited the Roman army not a

little, and inspired the enetny with a greater degree of

confidence, who, proud that they had dispatched the

lieutenant, and wounded the consul, carried all before

them, drove the Romans back to their camp, and there

besieged them again, inferior in strength, and without

the least ray of hope to support them.

Such was their miserable situation, when Quinctius

came to their relief with an army of tfce Latins, Her-

nici, and other foreign troops. Whilst the jEqui di­

rected all their force against the Roman camp, and in­

sulting the besieged, by exposing to their view the head

of their lieutenant-general, Quinctius attacked them in

rear, whilst, upon a signal from him at a distance, a

sally was made from the camp, so that the enemy was

in a great measure surrounded. No great slaughter en-i

sued, as they fled in straggling parties, through the Ro«

man territories.

Whilst they were straggling thus, and plundering

by the way, P'osth'umius, with some detachments, which

he had posted in proper places, gave them a very warm.

reception : and, after they had escaped the fury of Post-

humius.they fell in with Quinctius, who, after his victory,

was returning with the wounded consul. Here the con­

sular army took full revenge for their lieutenant-general

and his cohort*, as well as the wound received by the

consul. The slaughter was great on both sides, for

those tiroes.

It is indeed, next to impossible, to ascertain with pre­

cision, at this distance of time, what numbers were en­

gaged, or fell: although Antias Valerius finds no dif­

ficulty in condescending on the exact number. Accord­

ing to his account, there fell of the Romans, in the coun.

try of the Hernici, five 'thousand three hundred. Of

those jEqui, who in scattered parties, pillaged the Ro­

man territories, Posthnmius dispatched two thousand four

hundred: but it was Quinctius v«ho gave them the fatal

