3+0 TITUS L1VIUS' BOOK IV.

the best part of that day's solemnity. The dictator, by

order of the people, presented to Jupiter Capitoiinus, a

crown of gold, of a pound weight, at .the public ex-

pence.

I have followed the universal opinion of authors who

wrote before me, in making A. Cornelius Cossus, only

a legionary tribune, at the time he brought the second

Opitna Spoiia into the temple of Jupiter Feretrius. But

besides, that those only, properly speaking, are Opima

Spoiia, which one general takes from another, and none

can be considered as a general, but he who has the sole

management of the war; the very inscription of these.

spoils, proves against both them and me, that he was

consul when he took them. Therefore, when I heard

that Augustus Caesar, who either built or repaired all

the Roman temples, had visited that of Jupiter Feretrius,

which he had rebuilt, after it had fallen to ruins by the

ravages of time, and that he himself had read the in­

scription upon the linen breast-plate of Tolumnius, I

thought it a pity to deprive Cossus of the testimony of

his own spoils, and of Casar also, who rebuilt the temple.

The reader may, however, judge for himself, where the

mistake lies in that matter, because annals so ancient,

and the linen register of magistrate* kept in the temple

of Moneta, so often quoted by Liciifius Macer, takes no

• notice of Cossus's consulship, till nine years after, when

Titus Quinctius Pennus was his colleague. Add to this

also, that so famous a battle can never correspond to that

year, because for almost three years before and after the

consulate of A. Cornelius, there was no war, owing to a

pestilential disiemper and a famine; insomuch that some

annals, mourning, as it were, for the dead, mention no­

thing with respect 19 these years, but the names of the

consuls. The third year after he was consul, he was

ipade military tribune with consular |*nwer; and before

it expired, master of horse, in which capacity, he fought

another memorable battle at the head of the cavalry.

Still we may judge of this matter as we please;" bat,

in my opinion, we may conclude any dispute about the

matter ridiculous, since he who commanded in this ac­

tion, when the spoils were fresh and deposited in (he

temple, near Jupiter.himself, to whom they were devoted

