434 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK V.

which stood in the citadel 'of Veii. Some attacked the

soldiers behind as they defended the walls; some un­

barred the gates; and some of them, whilst they were

pelted from the house tops with stones and tiles by the

women and slaves, set .fire to the houses. The whole

city resounded with the shouts of the invaders, and cries

of the besieged, mingled with the shrieks and lamenta­

tions of women and children. In an instant, the walls

were cleared of those who defended them, and the gates

broke open, when part of the Roman army entered in

whole battalions, others scaled the deserted ramparts, so

that the city soon swarmed with enemies, and the battle

raged in every quarter. However, after a prodigious

slaughter, it began to subside, when the dictator ordered

the heralds to proclaim quarter to all who should lay

down their arms.

Here the slaughter ended, and the surrender of the un­

armed multitude commenced: then also, with permission

of the dictator, the soldiers fell to plunder. When Ca-

millus had ocular demonstration,- that the spoils, both in

quantity and value, far surpassed what he had ever ex­

pected or imagined, he is said to have lifted up his bands

to heaven, praying, ' that if the good fortune of the

• Roman people, or his own, appeared too great in th»

• sight of gods or men, that the envy thereof might fall

'upon him, but to spare the commonwealth.' It is fur­

ther added, that as he was turning round, after this.

prayer, that he fell on the ground; an accident construed

by some to presage his condemnation, after it had really

happened, and the destruction of Rome, after it was taken

by the Gauls: both these events happened a few years

after. Thus was that day spent in slaughtering the Ve-

jentes, and plundering their most opulent city.

CHAP. XXII.

Murmurs against Camillta, Juno brought to Rome.

EXT day, the dictator exposed the freemen to publie

sale, the proceeds whereof alone were set apart for the

public treasury. At this the people took great oflence,

alledging, that what plunder they carried home with.

them, they had no reason to ascribe to the general,

