CHAP. 22. ROMAN HISTORY. 435

with a riew to make them the authors of,his own male­

volence, had submitted an affair to them, which entirely

depended on himself; nor to the senate, but to the fa­

mily of the Liciui, a son whereof had laid the matter be­

fore the senate, and his father had strongly espoused the

interest of the people, in supporting the motion.

After all the worldly riches had been removed from

Veil, they began to remove what had been consecrated

to the geds, and the gods themselves; but in this they

acted more like worshippers than pillagers. For some of

the youngest men of the whole army were selected, to

whom, wheii their bodies were washed perfectly clean,

and clothed in white, it was given in charge to transport

queen Juno to Rome: They entered her temple with re­

verence, touching her at first with a religious awe, be­

cause that statue, by a ceremony among the Etrurians,

none used to. touch, but a priest of a certain family. At

last when one of the lads, whether by a divrne impulse,

pr in a youthful frolic, asked her, 'Will you go to Rome,

'Juno?' 'Yes, yes, (cried they altogether,) you see the

'goddess nods her assent;' which gave rise to the story,

that she was heard to pronounce distinctly, ' With all

'my heart.' Certain it is, that she was easily moved

from her place, and that they got her to Rome, with as

little trouble or difficulty as if she had followed them.

They conveyed' her safe and sound to the Aventine hill,

whither the dictator had invited heV; and which- was

from'that time to be the seat of her residence for ever:

and where he dedicated a temple to her, in discharge of

a vow he had made.

Such was the fate of Veii, the richest city of all Tus­

cany; the final ruin of which, demonstrated its great­

ness: for having sustained an unremitted siege for ten

summers and as many winters, wherein Rome had suf­

fered more from it, than it had done from Rome, it was

at last, by unavoidable destiny, reduced not by force,. bus­

by stratagem. .

