CHAP. 2. ROMAN HISTORY. 2oS

making his court to the peop'e at the expence of others,

and turned the whole odium from the tribunes upon the

consul.

The contest would have been very warm, had not his

colleague, Fabius, proposed an expedient which seemed

disagreeable to neither party. That Titus Quinctius,

who commanded the army against the Volsci last year,

had taken from them some lands: That a colony might

be sent to Antium, a neighbouring and commodious city,

situated on the sea-coast; by which means, the people

might be provided in lands, without interfering with

the possessions of others, or giving any disturbance to

the state. This proposal was received with applause;

and T. Quinctius, A. Virginius, and P, Furius, were

CAtnmissioued to settle the partition accordingly. The

candidates were called to give in their names: But, as it

generally happens, what can be easily attained, has no

charms. Wherefore, so very few appeared to be enrol­

led, that to make up the complement, they were obliged

to admit the Volsci, the people chusing rather to con­

tinue their clamours for lands at Rome, than be put in

possession of them elsewhere. Q. Fabius led an army

against the .^Equi; and, at their request, granted them

a peace; but it was of no long standing, for they soon

after made an irruption into the territories of Latium.

CHAP. it.

The jEqui drfeated.

JL HE next year, Q. Serviiius, who had been elected

consul with Posthumius, was sent against the .2Equi, and

encamped in the country of the Latins. A distemper

which raged among the troops, confined them to the

camp, so that the war was protracted till the third year,

when Q. Fabius and T. Quinctius were consuls. By

an extraordinary commission, the province of the JEqm

Vvas assigned to Fabius, who had conquered, and at their

request granted them a peace. He set out accordingly,

not doubting in the least, but the very mention of his

name would bring them to submission, and accordingly

sent deputies'to represent in their supreme council,

