CHAP. 34. ROMAN HISTORY. &7

cause he was the son of an exile, she persuades him to

leave Tarquinii. Rome, of all others, seemed te be the

most eligible retreat. In a new state, where nobility is

the perquisite of merit, and but of short standing, a man

of courage and address would bid fair for distinction.

Tatins, though a Sabine, was raised to the throne. Nu-

ma was called to-the same dignity from Cures. Ancus-

was born of a Sabine mother, and had no other badge of

nobility, than a single statue of Numa.

Her arguments prevailed with Lucumo, who was

naturally ambitions, and attached to Tarquinii, from no

other consideration-, but (bat it gave birth to his mother.

Wherefore, having sent oil" their ertects, tliey set out for

Rome. They happened to stop at the Janiculum, where,

as he sat in the chariot with his wile, an sagle, falling

gently with spread wings, took of!' his cap, and fluttering

over the chariot with a prodigious noise, as if sent down

from heaven on purpose, replaced it orderly on his head,-

and then soared aloft. It is said, that Ta'naquil received

the omen with raptures, being much versed in celestial

prodigies, as the Etrurians generally are, and embracing

her husband, encourages him to look up for great honours

and preferment; assuring him, "That the bird had

"come from a quarter of the heavens peculiar to ^Tu-

•* piter himself, whose messenger he was. That it had

"taken the omen from the vertical point of man, and

"lifted the ornament of the human head, to replace

"it there by command of the gods."—Full of these

thoughts and expectations, they entered the city; and

having purchased a house, he went under the. name of

Lucius Tarquinius Priscus. Being a foreigner and very

rich, be soon became conspicuous at Rome; where, by

the affability of his demeanour, frank invitations, and

objiging manner of conferring favours, he procured him­

self friends, and promoted his interest; insomuch, that

at last, he came to be mentioned at court, where, by

discharging his duty about the king with assiduity and

politeness, he soon became.a very great favourite, and

was admitted a privy counsellor: Aiid having, on all

occasions distinguished himself by his integrity and abi­

lities, he was at last appointed guardian to the royal fa­

mily, by the king's last will.

