CHAP. 26. ROMAN HISTORY. 241

gence, of all others, was least expected, or looked for;

and the terror and consternation it occasioned at Rome,

was much the same, as if the city itself, and not the

camp, had been invested.

The consul Nautius was sent for; but that their only

confidence might not be placed in him, they judged it

proper to name a dictator, to retrieve their embarrassed

affairs, and pitched upon L. Quinctius Cincinnatus, with

on'e consent, for that purpose.

It is worth any one's while, who makes light of every

thing but riches, and who imagines, that without them,

there can be no real greatness, no virtue,—to listen at­

tentively to the following narrative. This same Lucius

Quinctius, the'prop and stay of the Roman people, lived

in the country, on the other side of the Tiber, and culti­

vated with his own hands, a small piece of land of four

acres, called the Quinctian meadows, opposite that very

place, where the ship-docks now are. The senate's de­

puties found him there, trenching with the spade, or at

plough; at least, one thing is certain, that he was busily

employed about his farm. After the usual compliments

on both sides were passed, they begged him,- " To put

"on his gown, and hear the senate's message, praying it

"might prove auspicious both to himself and the state."

Struck wifh admiration, he asked them, " If all was

"well?" Then turning to his wife Racilia, " Go,"

says he, " make haste and fetch my gown :" and wiping

the dust and sweat from his face, he put it on and re­

joined them. The deputies straight saluted him Dictator,

with great demonstrations of joy, invited him to the city,

and informed him of the critical situation of the army.

A barge belonging to the state was waiting to convey

him to the city. His three sons, his other relations and

friends, and the greatest-part of the senators, were wait­

ing to receive him at his landing. With this attendance,

preceded by the lictors he was conducted to his house.

Crowds of the Plebeians likewise put themselves in his

train, although his arrival to them was not over-agree­

able; for they thought his authority too extensive, and

himself too severe in the execution of it. They kept

watch in the city all that night.

