1<88 TITUS LIVIUS' . BOOK If.

which, the tribunes having lost all courage, the consuls

completed without any interruption. The people were

more provoked at the silence of their tribunes, than the

imperious behaviour of the consuls, crying out, "That

"there was an end of all liberty now: That they were

"fallen again intd their ancient state.—That the trihu-

"nitian power had expired, and was laid in the grave

"with Genntius.—That they must now fall upon other

"measures to oppose a barrier to the violence of the

"senators.—That they had still one resource left, and

"that was in themselves, since every other means of

"protection had failed them.—That the consuls had no

"other guard, but twenty-four lictors, and these too,

*' plebeians: a weak and contemptible aid indeed, if  
"there were but men who knew hov.' to despise them.

"Such was the power wl.ich imagination only magni-

"lies, and represents as terrible."

By such discourses, as they were spiriting up each

other, a lictor was sent by the consuls, to one Volero

Publius, a plebeian, who'insisted, that he could not be

compelled to serve as a single centinel, having formerly

had the rank of centurion. Votero called to the tribunes;

but none of them moving to protect him, the consuls or­

dered the lictors to strip and scourge him with rods "I

"appeal," says Volero, " to the people, since the tri-

"bunes choose rather to see a Roman citizen scourged

"before their eyes, .than be strangled in their beds by

« you."

The more vehemently he cried out, the more eager the

lictor was to tear and take off his clothes. But Volero,

being robust of himself, and having got others to assist

him, beat off the lictor, and got into the thickest of the

crowd, where he saw the greatest ferment and indigna­

tion raised on his account, crying out, "I appeal to the

"people;—I implore their protection! stand by me citi-

"zens! stand by me fellow soldiers! you .have nothing

"to expect from your tribunes; alas! they have occasFon

"themselves for your aid."

The ferment spread among the people; they prepared

as for a battle; and there seemed not a doubt, but mat­

ters would be carried to the most violent height, without

regard to birth* age, or dignity."

