»0 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK I.

In the very beginning of th'rs work, it is affirmed, that

the gods exerted their power to presage the future great­

ness of this empire. For, though the birds declared,

that all the other temples might be deprived of their

sacred honours, they could not be brought to approve

of the measure with respect to Terminus. This omen

and augury was thus explained, that as Terminus would"

not move, and being the only one of all the gods that

had not been moved from their respective stations, they

had in that circumstance, a sure sign of the permanency

and stability of their empire.

This oruen being understood to have a respect to the

permanency, there followed another which portended

its greatness: For, as the story. goes, whilst the masons

were opening the ground for the foundation of the tem­

ple, a human head appeared to them, with the face en­

tire. This phenomenon, without straining the interpre­

tation, plainly presaged, that this temple should be the

head of the empire, and the empire univer.-al. This too

was the opinion of the soothsayers, not only of Rome,

but of those also who had been sent for from' Etruria,

to be consulted on it. Presages so flattering, could not

miss to enlarge the king's mind with respect to the ex-

pence; insomuch that the spoils of Pometia, originally

intended to defray the expence of the whole superstruc­

ture, were scarcely sufficient for laying the foundation.

—For this reason, I am the more inclinable to believe

Fabius: besides, that he is the more ancient author, who

restricts the plunder of this city to forty talents, than

Piso, who atfmns that 40,000 pound weight of gold and

silver, had been sequestrated for that purpose; a sum

scarcely to be expected from the spoils of any one city

in the world at that time, and more than sufficient for

laying the foundation of any, the most magnificent fabric

cf modern times.

CHAP. LVI.

Sends a colony to Signia and Ceredum. Sends Brutu<i

to Delphos.

J. ARQUIN being intent upon building the temple;

hired architects and skilful workmen from Etrnria;

