199 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK II.

When the people crowding about him, as if summoned

to an assembly, asked him how he came to be in those

circumstances; he told them, " That his land having

"been ravaged by the depredations of the enemy, dur-

"ing the war with the Sabines, in which he served, he

"had not only lost the crop for a year, but his farm

"had been burnt, his effects plundered, and his cattle

"carried off. That to add to his misfortune, the pay-

"meut of a tax had been exacted from him at a very

"unseasonable time, which laid him under the necessity

"of borrowing; that interest rising upon interest, he

"had been obliged to sell his paternal estate, and after-

"wards all his moveabie subjects. At length the disease

"had spread to his body, and overspread his whole

"person: That his creditors had carried him prisoner

"from his house, where they had not been so generous

"as treat him like a slave, but as a malefactor condemn-

"ed to the torture." With these words he bared his

back, and shewed the still recent marks of the rods and

whips with which he had been tortured.

This histor}r, and the proofs that supported it, raised

a prodigious outcry. The tumult was no longer con­

fined to the forum, but spread through all quarters of

the city. All such as had been delivered up to their

creditors, and now at liberty, appeared in public, im­

ploring the protection of the people. The mob was

joined by volunteers from every quarter. Multitudes

repaired from all the streets to the forum, with furious

shouts. Such of the senators as happened to be on the

spot, would have been in danger of their lives, had not

the consuls, PubliusServilius, and Ap. Claudius hastened

to quell the riot. The whole multitude turned towards

these magistrates, showing them their chains, and other

marks of inhuman treatment; telling them that these

were all the rewards of their past services in arms, every

one upbraiding them with the different campaigns they

had made. With a menacing rather than suppliant air,

they insisted that the senate should be assembled; and

determined, as it were, to direct and over-rule their deli­

berations, they crowded round the senate-house.

A small number of the senators, whom.accident had

brought thither, joined the consuls; fear prevented the

