318 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK IV.

-t

CHAP. V.

Conclusion.

JjUT to conclude: only let me ask you, is the sove-

'reign power in \.\\epfopleof Rome, or in you, Patricians?

'Did we expel the kings to render you absolute, or to

« purchase a liberty, which should be common to, and

'equal in all? I hope it will not be denied that the

'people can, at their pleasure, make a law; and will

'you then, ihe moment a law is proposed, pretend to

'• list them immediately for the war: and the moment

* that I, in virtue of my office as tribune, begin to call  
'upon the tribes for their suffrages, shall you, by your

'consular authority, oblige the youth immediately to

'take the military oath, and march them to the camp,

'threatening both the people and their tribune? Have

'you not twice already felt the effects of cudgelling the

'people into an involuntary obedience? Perhaps yoa

* dropped the argument, out of regard to our safety; or  
'rather did you keep your temper, because the stronger

'party was also the more moderate? Believe me, Ro-

'mans, there will be no bloodshed on this occasion

'neither. Your temper they will always try; but as

'for your strength, that is quite adifferent affair. Where-

'fore, hear me, consuls, whether these wars you talk of,

'be real or fictitious, the people shall be ready at a call,

'if by the ties of marriage and mutual affinity, these

'ancient privileges, the two orders be again united, re-

'stored to their natural tights, and be made one people:

'and if, by real merit, the citizens may look up to

'offices of distinction in the state, without regard to

'adventitious circumstances5 if such, in conjunction with

'you, are admitted *i a share in the administration of

'public affairs, to demonstrate that they are equally

'called upon in the annual magistracy, to command and

'obey, in which alone, true liberty consists. But if

'• these laws are opposed, talk for ever of wars, exag-

'gerate the danger as much as you will—not a man

shall enter the service—not a man shall take arms—

'not a man shall expose his life for such imperious lords.

