392 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK IV

CHAP. LVI.

The Consuls offended with the Senate for proposing a

Dictator. The Tribunes refuse to interfere.

./\Sthe commons had prevailed in the first instance in

obtaining the comitia they had insisted on, so in the

event ot' the Comitia, the senate prevailed in their turn.

For, contrary to all expectation, three Patricians, C. Ju­

lius Julus, Publius Cornelius CQSSuS, and C. Servilius

Ahala were elected military tribunes with consular pow­

er. It is said, that the Patricians had recourse to a stra­

tagem, with which the Icilii reproached them at that ve­

ry time, in setting up a number of low fellows to .appear

as candidates with men of the first merit; and, that the

people, ashamed of the tattered appearance made by

some of them, rejected the Plebeian candidates altoge­

ther. Whether it was, that the hopes of the 3L(\ui aud

Volsci were revived from the circumstance of their hav­

ing been able to defend the fortress of Carventum, or if

their resentment was raised by the loss of the garrison

of Verrugo, advices were brought that they were mak­

ing extraoidinary preparations for war, and that the Ao-

tiates were at the head of the confederacy, who had am­

bassadors making the circuit of tlieir different courts, re.

monstrating against them as a body of poltroons, who,

whilst they were skulking within their walls, suffered the

Romans , the year before, to ravage their country at

pleasure, and cut in pieces the garrison of Verugo.

That hostile armies were not only stnt against them, but

colonies planted in their country; and, that the Roman)

not content with a dividend of their subject among them­

selves, had taken Ferentinurn from them, and given it in

a present to the Hernici.

The resentment of the people being, by these re­

proaches, screwed up to the highest pitch, wherever they

went, the youth were very forward to enlist. Where­

fore the youth of all the confederate nations having ren­

dezvoused at Antium, there they encamped and waited

for the enemy. When advices of these motions were

carried to Rome, and greatly' exaggerated in the rela­

