320 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK IV,

Only gentlemen of consular dignity, who were not present

at these meetings. Claudius's advice armed the hands

of the consuls against the tribunes r but the Quintii,

Cincinnatus, and Capitolinus declared against blood and

slaughter, or even ottering violence to the persons of

those, whom, by a solemn engagement with the people,

they had obliged themselves to hold sacred and inviola­

ble. In these private assemblies, it was at last agreed,

that they should allow military tribunes, with consular

power, to be chosen indifferently out of either order;

but that the mode of election with respect to consuls

should suffer no alteration.

This measure was received, and cordially embraced

both by the people and their tribunes. The Comitia

was then summoned tor the election of three military

tribunes with consular power: upon which, all those

who had distinguished themselves most in the cause of

sedition, either in speaking or acting, especially the tri-

bunitian gentlemen, ran on all' sides of the forum, dres­

sed in white robes, soliciting votes. The Patricians see­

mg them so active, and despairing of obtaining any

office of distinction, from a people so exasperated, at the

same time, were there hopes of succeeding, unable to

bear the thoughts of associating with colleagues of Ple­

beian rank, they were at first determined not to stand

-for the office. At last however, yielding to the remon­  
strances of the leading men of their party, they offered

their services fo fill the new offices, that they might not

seem to have abandoned their country with their share

in its government. The result of this assembly shewed,

that there is a material difference between a people in

the heat and fury of disputes for liberty and honour, and

when they act with dispassionate coolness afte.r these dis­

putes are over.

The people elected none to the office of military tri­

bunes, but Patricians only, being fully satisfied, that

regard had been shown to their demand. Where shall

we now find in any one man, that moderation, that

equity, that greatness of soul, which were then so cou.-

spicuous in a whole, people?

