354 TITUS LIVIUS' BOOK IV.

The Vejentes now renewed their incursions upon the

Roman territories. Fame will have it, that some of the

youth of Fidena- were concerned in these depredations.

The cognizance of this affair was assigned to L. Sergius,

Q. Servilius, and Mamercus /Kmilius. Some of the de­

linquents were banished to Ostia, because they could not

account for their absence from Fidenae, thedayson which

these trespasses happened. An additional number of

planters was sent to the colony, who had.-the lands of

those who fell in battle assigned them. -^\

This year was remarkable for an excessive drought.

For the rains not only tailed, but the earth too dramed

of its native moisture, was scarcely sufficient to supply

the fixed rivers. In other places, near the springs and

rivulets which were quite dried up, the want of water-

made terrible havoc among the cattle, which perished

for thirst. Others of them were cut off' by the murrain.

From them the infection spread among the people, rag­

ing at first among the peasants and slaves. But it was

not long before the city swarmed with sick. Nor were

their bodies alone infected with the distemper, but their

minds were also seized with various superstitions, most

of them too of foreign growth. Some impostors turned

the credulity of the people to their account, by pretend­

ing to prophecy, and introducing into families new rites

in offering sacrifices; till the principal men of the state

came to be acquainted with the public nuisance, by see­

ing in all the streets and chapels, foreign and uncommon

expiations for recovering the favour of the gods. The

.ffidiles were then enjoined to take care, that none but

the Roman gods should be worshipped, nor these in any

other manner than that which custom had established.

The chastisement of the Vejentes was reserved for C.

Servilius Ahala, and L. Papirius Mugilanus, the consuls

for the following year: and even then they had a scru­

ple at declaring war, or marching an army immediately

against them before the Feciales should be sent to de­

mand restitution: a step which they thought should be

previous to all others. It was but lately that they had

measured their swords with the Vejentes, at Nomenturo

and Fidense, where a truce, but not a peace ensued. The

truce was indeed expired now, but before that time they

had been in arms. The Feciales were however dispatch­

