A. D. 14.] 45 OF TACITUS.

ditious: but war knows no distinction of cases; the

innocent and the guilty fall in one promiscuous car­

nage.

The officers, thus instructed, sounded the common

men; and finding thegreatcst partwell affected,agreed,

at an hour approved of by Csecina, to fall with sudden

fury upon the leaders of the mutiny. Having con­

certed their measures, at a signal given they began

the attack. «They rushed sword in hand into the tents,

and without mercy butchered their comrades, who

little thought they were so near their end. A dread­

ful slaughter followed; no cause assigned, and no ex­

planation given. Except tho authors of the measure,

no man knew from what motive the assault proceeded,

or where it would end.

XLIX. In the civil wars recorded in history, we

no where find a scene of horror like the present. No

battle was fought; there was no assault from an ad­

verse camp :'in the same tents where the day saw

them eat their meal in peace, and the night laid them

down to rest, comrades divide against their fellows;

darts and javelins are thrown with sudden fury; up­

roar and confusion follow; shouts and dying groans

resound throughout the camp: a scene of blood is

laid; wretches expire, and the reason remains un­

known. The event is left to chance. Men of worth

and honour perished in the fray; for the guilty,

finding themselves the devoted objects, snatched up

their arms, and joined the better cause. Csecina re­

mained a tame spectator; no officer, no tribune at­

tempted to stop the wild commotion. The fury of the

soldiers had its free career; and vengeance rioted in

blood, even to satiety. Germanicus in a short time

after entered the camp. He saw a tragic spectacle;

and, with tears in his eyes, called it a massacre, not

an act of justice. He ordered the dead bodies to be

burnt. The fury of the soldiers had not yet subsided :

in the agitation of their minds they desired to be led

against the enemy, in order to expiate by tho blood

of the barbarians the desolation theyjiad made. The

shades of their slaughtered friends could not be other­

wise appeased: when their breasts were gashed with

