,4 THE ANNALS [A. U. C. 773.

4 jest ? In the juncture before us, Claudius figured

. so little on the stage of public business, that there

was scarce a man in Rome, who did not seem, by the

/ voice of fame and the wishes of the people, designed

for the sovereign power, rather than the very person,

whom fate, in that instant, cherished in obscurity, to

make him, at a future period, master of the Roman

world.

XIX. The senate, a few days afterwards, on the

motion of Tiberius, granted the sacerdotal dignity to

Vitellius, Veranius, and Servseus. Fulcinius Trio

received a promise of the emperor's favour in his

road to honours, but was at the same,time admo­

nished to restrain the ardour of his genius, lest, by

over-heated vehemence, he might mar his eloquence.

In this manner ended the inquiry concerning the

death of Germanicus; a subject which has been va­

riously represented, not only by men of that day,

but by all subsequent writers. It remains, to this

hour, the problem of history. A cloud forever hangs

over the most important transactions, while, on the

one hand, credulity adopts for fact the report of the

day; and, on the other, politicians warp and disguise

the truth: between both parties two different accounts

go down from age to age, and gain strength with pos­

terity.

Drusus thought it time to enjoy the honours of a

public entry. For this purpose he went out of the

city, and having assisted at the ceremony of the au­

spices, returned with the splendour of an ovation. In

a few days after he lost his mother Vipsania; of all

the children of Agrippa, the only one that died a na­

tural death. The rest were brought to a tragic end;

some, as is well known, by the murderer's stroke;

and others, as is generally believed, by poison or by

famine.

XX. In the same year Tacfarinas, the Numidian

chief, whom we have seen defeated by Camillus in a

former campaign, once more commenced hostilities in

Africa. He began by sudden incursions; depending

for his safety on the rapidity of his flight. Embold­

ened by success, he attacked several towns and vil­

