108 [A.U. C. 770. THE ANNALS

the Langobards, two Suevian nations revolted from

Maroboduus. By this defection the superiority had

been decidedly with Arminius, had not Ihguiomer .

thrown his whole weight into the opposite scale. For

this conduct the pride of the man was the exciting

motive. Arminius was the son of Inguiomer's brother;

and the uncle, now a ^veteran soldier, disdained to

serve under his nephew, and obey the orders of a boy.

The two armies were drawn up in order of battle; on

both sides equal ardour, and equal hopes of victory.

The Germans no longer carried on a desultory war,

in detached parties, and irregular bodies: their long

conflict with the Romans had made them soldiers.

Discipline was introduced; they followed the colours,

they supported the broken ranks, and with prompt

alacrity obeyed the word of command. Arminius

appeared on horseback, rushed through the ranks,

and animating his men to deeds of valour. He con­

gratulated them on the recovery of their liberty: he

gloried in the slaughter of Varus and his legions; he

pointed to the spoils of victory, and the Roman wea­

pons then in hands of numbers; he called JYIarobo- '

duus a coward and a fugitive, who never fleshed his

sword in battle, but fled for shelter to the Hercynian

forest, where, by negotiation, by bribes and embassies,

he patched up an ignominious peace. A traitor to

his country, and the slave of Csesar, he was more an

object of vengeance than Varus and his legions. He

conjured them to remember the battles they had

fought, and the glorious issue of all their labours.

" The Romans," he said," have abandoned Germany;

" they are exterminated; and if men desire to know

" who were the conquerors, the event of the war will

" tell."

XLVI. Maroboduus, in the mean time, was not in­

active. Of himself he talked in magnificent terms,

and of the enemy with contempt and indignation.

Holding Inguiomer by the hand, " Behold," he said,

" in this brave warrior, the support and glory of the

" Cheruscan lame! To him they are indebted for the

" success of their arms. Arminius had no share in the

"conduct of the war; a rash presumptuous man,

