58 THE ANNALS [A. U. C. 768.

vantage; and had well nigh driven the Romans into

a morals, well known to themselves, but impractica­

ble to strangers, when Germanicus came up with the

legions in order of battle. At the sight of a regular

force, the Germans were struck with terror. The

broken ranks of the Romans had time to rally.

Nothing decisive followed: Both armies parted upon

equal terms: Germanicus marched back to the river

Amisia, and with his legions sailed across the lakes.

Part of the cavalry had orders to file along the sea-

coast, and by a winding march return to the banks

of the Rhine. , ',

Csecina, at the head of his own division, marched

through a country of which he was not ignorant. He

ljad 'directions to pass the long bridges with all possi­

ble expedition. The place so called is a narrow cause­

way, constructed formerly by Lucius Domitius. It

stretches a great length of way between two prodi­

gious marshes. The country round is one vast fen, in

some parts covered with a deep and slimy mud, in

others with a tenacious heavy clay, intersected fre­

quently with rapid torrents. A thick forest, rising at

some distance on a gradual acclivity, inclosed the

wiiole scene, and formed a kind of amphitheatre. Ar-

minius, who knew the course of the country, made a

forced march, and took post in the woods before the

Romans, encumbered with arms and heavy baggage,

arrived at the place. CfEcina found a double difficul­

ty. The bridges, ruined by time, were to be repaired;

and the enemy at the same time was to be repulsed.

He judged it necessary to pitch his camp; as in that

situation a sufficient number might work,at the cause­

way, while the rest were held in readiness to engage

the enemy.

LXIV. The barbarians made a vigorous effort to

force the outposts, and penetrate to the men working

at the intrenchments. They rushed forward with im­

petuous fury, they wheeled about to the flanks, they

returned to charge in front. A mingled shout arose

from the labourers and the combatants. All things

seemed to conspire against the Romans: the slimy

soil, if the men stood still, sunk under them; if they

