136 . T) .... . i- i ', U.C.772

^ ,ppened, before Germanicus expired, that certain

iders from Syria arrived at Rome with favourable

: counts. What was wished, was easily believed.

ae news spread with rapidity; he who heard imper足

fectly made his report with additions ; others did the

same : and thus the story went on, gathering strength

from mouth to mouth, and diffusing universal joy.

The populace ran wild through the streets; they threw

open the gates of the temples; night came on; the

hurry still continued; assertion grew more confident

in the dark, and credulity listened with a greedy ear.

Tiberius saw the delusion, but calmly left it to its

own futility. Time disclosed the truth; the people

renewed their sorrow with redoubled violence, as if

the prince had been torn from them a second time.

LXXXII1. The senate met to decree honours to his

memory. Friendship put itself to the stretch, and

men of talents exhausted their invention. It was

voted that the name of Germanicus should be insert足

ed in the Salian hymn; that a curule chair, adorned

with a civic crown, should be placed in the college of :

Augustan priests; that his statue, wrought in ivory,

should be carried in the procession of the Circensian

games; and that the vacancy made by his death in

the list of flamens and augurs, should be filled from

the Julian family only. Triumphal arches were or足

dered to be erected at Rome, on the Rhine, and mount

Amanus in Syria, with inscriptions setting forth the

splendour of his actions, and, in direct terms, declar足

ing that he died in the service of his country. At

. ntioch, where his remains were burnt, a mausoleum

as ordered; and at Epidaphne, where he died, a tri-

,unal in honour of his memory. Of the several

.,1 atues, and the places where they were to be worship-

I od, it would be difficult to give a regular catalogue.

was farther proposed that a shield of pure gold, ex-

ceding the ordinary size, should be dedicated to him

in the place allotted to orators of distinguished elo-

q uence. Tiberius overruled the motion, declaring his j

intention to order one of the common size, and4he

sual metal. Superior rank, he said, did not confer

superior eloquence, A place among the great writers

