146 [A. U. C. 773. THE. ANNALS

heard before himself. The request was perfectly

agreeable to the accused party, who was not to learn

that the senate and the people were prejudiced against

him. "Tiberius, ho knew, was firm enough to resist

popular clamour ; and in conjunction with Livia, had

acted an underhand part in the business. Besides

this, the truth, he thought, would be better investi­

gated before a single judge, than in a mixed assembly,

where intrigue and party violence too often prevailed.

Tiberius, however, saw the importance of the cause,

and felt the imputations thrown out against himself.

To avoid a situation so nice and difficult, he consented

to hear, in the presence of a few select friends, the

heads of the charge, with the answers of the defend­

ant; and then referred the whole to the consideration

of the senate.

XI. During these transactions, Drusus returned

from Illyricum. For the captivity of Maroboduus,

and the prosperous events of the preceding summer

an ovation had been decreed by the senate; but he

chose to postpone that honour, and entered the city

as a private man. Piso moved that Titus Arruntius, .

T. Vinicius, Asinius Gallus, ^serninus Marcellus,

and Sextus Pompeius, might be assigned as advocates

to defend his cause. Under different pretexts they

all excused themselves; and in their room, Marcus

Lepidus, Lucius Piso, and Livineius Regulus, were

appointed. The whole city was big with expectation.

It remained to be seen how far the friends of Ger-

manicus would act with firmness; what resources

Piso had left, and whether Tiberius would speak his

mind, or continue as usual, dark and impenetrable.

No juncture had ever occurred in which the people

were so warmly interested; none, when in private

discourse men made such bitter reflections, and none,

when suspicion harboured such gloomy apprehen­

sions.

XII. At the next meeting of the senate, Tiberius,

in a premeditated speech, explained his sentiments. ]

" Piso," he observed," had been the friend and chosen

" lieutenant of Augustus; and was lately named with

" the approbation of the senate, to assist Germanicui

