A. D. 22.] OF TACITUS.

LX. To strengthen the foundation of his own

power was the constant policy of Tiberius. Intent on

that object, he still preserved the forms of the consti­

tution, and amused the senate with a phantom of li­

berty. All petitions from the provinces were referred

to that assembly. About this time, the right of hav­

ing sanctuaries, and of multiplying the number with­

out limitation, was assumed by all the cities of

Greece. The temples in that country were crowded

by the most abandoned slaves; debtors screened them­

selves from their creditors, and criminals fled from

justice. The magistrates were no longer able to con­

trol a seditious populace, who carried their crimes,

under a mask of piety, to the altar of their gods. An

order was therefore made, that the several cities

should send their deputies to Rome, with a state of

their respective claims. Some places, finding their

pretensions brought to the test, thought proper to de­

cline the inquiry. The rights of others were founded

on traditional superstition; and superstition was not

willing to renounce her errors. Some of the cities

relied on the merit of their ancestors in the service of

Rome. The business came at length to a hearing. A

day more august and splendid cannot be figured to

the imagination. We now behold a Roman senate

sitting in judgment on the grants of the old republic;

discussing the treaties and conventions of confederate

nations; deliberating on the acts,of kings, while kings

were able to make a stand against the power of Rome;

and, above all, reviewing the various systems of reli­

gion, which had been for ages established in the be­

lief of mankind. These were the important subjects;

and to give still greater dignity to the scene, the se­

nate met, as was the practice in good times, with

authority to inquire, and liberty to determine.

LXI. The case of the Ephesians was the first

brought forward. It was stated in their behalf, that

Diana and Apollo were not, as generally supposed,

born in the ishf of Delos, but in the Ortygian Grove,

on the banks of the river Cenchri^, which flows with­

in the territories of Ephesus. In that sacred recess,

Latona, taking shelter under an olive tree, was deli­

