A. D. IS.] 57 OF TACITUS.

" of scorn and insolence to the colours and the Roman

" eagles."

LXII. Six years had elapsed since the overthrow

of Varus; and now, on the same spot, the Roman

army collected the bones of their slaughtered country­

men. Whether they were burying the remains of

strangers, or of their own friends, no man knew: all,

however, considered themselves as performing the

last obsequies to their kindred, and their brother sol­

diers. While employed in this pious office, their hearts

were torn with contending passions; by turns op­

pressed with grief, and burning for revenge. A monu­

ment to the memory of the dead was raised with turf.

Germanicus with his own hand laid the first sod; dis­

charging at once the tribute due to the legions, and

sympathizing with the rest of the army. The whole,

though an act of piety to the slain, was condemned

by Tiberius. The malignity of his nature led him to

misinterpret the actions of Germanicus; perhaps ho

was apprehensive, that the view of a field covered'

with the unburied limbs of a slaughtered arjny,

might damp the ardour of the soldier, and add to the

ferocity of the enemy. There might be another rea­

son for his displeasure. Perhaps he thought that a

general, invested with the office of augur, and other

religious functions, ought not to assist at the per­

formance of funeral rites.

LXIII. Germanicus pressed forward, by rapid

marches, in pursuit of Arminius, who fled before him.

taking advantage of the defiles, and difficult part of

the country. Having overtaken the barbarians, and

seeing his opportunity, be ordered the cavalry to ad­

vance on the open plain, and dislodge the enemy.

Arminius drew up his men in close compacted ranks,

and feigning a retreat to the forest, suddenly wheeled

about; giving, at the same time, the signal to the

troops that lay ambushed in the woods, to rush out,

and begin the attack. The Roman cavalry, struck

with surprise at the sudden appearance of a new army,

were thrown into disorder. They fell back upon the

cohorts sent to support them, and a general conster­

nation followed. The barbarians pursued their ad­

