D.20.] of Tacitus 143

far as Ticinum to meet the body; and, never quit-

*f ting it afterwards, entered the city in the public pro-  
" cession. The bier was decorated with the images of

" the Claudian and the Livian families: tears were

4* shed in the forum; a funeral oration was delivered

" from the rostrum; and every honour, as well of an-

" cient as of modern invention, was ofFered to the me-

" mory of the deceased. How different was the case

"at present! Even the distinctions usually granted

" to persons of illustrious rank, were refused to Ger-

" manicus. The body was committed to the funeral

" pile in a foreign land; that was an act of necessity;

" but, to compensate for the first deficiency, too much

" could not be done. One day's journey was all that

" a brother performed. The uncle did not so much

" as go to the city-gate. Where now the usage of

" ancient times ? Where the bed on which the image

" of the deceased lay in state? Where the verses in

" honour of departed virtue ? Where the funeral pane-

" gy"c, and tne tear that embalms the dead ? If real

" tears were not ready to gush, where, at least, were.

, " the forms of grief? and where the decency of pre-

"tended sorrow ?"

VI. Tiberius was not ignorant of what passed. To

appease the murmurs of the people, he issued a pro­

clamation, in which it was observed, " that eminent

" men had at various times fallen in the service of

" their country, though none were so sincerely lament-

" ed as Germanicus. The regret shown on the pre-

" sent occasion, did honour to the virtue of the people,

" and the imperial dignity ; but grief must have its

" bounds. That which might be proper in private

" families, or in petty states, would ill become the

" grandeur of a people who gave laws to the world.

" Recent affliction must have its course. The heart

" overflows, and in that discharge finds its best relief.

"It is now time to act with fortitude. Julius Csesar

" lost an only daughter; Augustus saw his grandsons

" prematurely snatched away; but their grief was in-

" ward only. They bore the stroke of affliction with

" silent dignity. If the authority qf ancient times

"were requisite, conjunctures might be mentioned,

