14 : 4 I'.C.Tt;: THE ANNAL,

"taken by force from Tit, K 10, '(twfa' bjt.,

"band; she was then a, ..jfi , .<,„, ~j .

" whether in that cond:: .>. ,,ht v ,•'.: , legal dis-

4' ability to contract , , iu *i , n , ^ed

" referred to the pon .' , ',' ,'' v* • ,*

"ference was a mocke.; '^',: !u.i r, ''' i V *.

"jest. His two favourites, ,.u' V .

" dius Pollio, were distinguished uy r.'r:'i:'.Y

" and debauchery. To crown the whole, 1 i , , * , ' .

" him with unbounded sway; to the common* u.'

" fatal empress, and to the Csesarian family, a pern;

" cious step-mother. The honours due to the gods

" were no longer sacred; Augustus claimed equal wor-

" ship. Temples were built, and statues were erected

" to him : a mortal man was adored, and priests and

, " pontiffs were appointed to pay him impious homage.

" In calling Tiberius to the succession, he neither

" acted from the motives of private affection, nor of

" regard for the public welfare. He knew the arro-

" gance and innate cruelty of the man, and from the

" contrast hoped to derive new lustre on himself."

That he knew the inward frame and cast of Tiberius,

appears from a fact that happened a few years before.

The business of granting to that prince a renewal of

the tribunitian power, was depending in the senate.

Augustus, in his speech upon that occasion, made

honourable mention of him; but, at the same time,

threw out oblique reflections on his conduct, his de­

portment, and his manners. With affected tender­

ness he seemed willing to palliate all defects; but the

malice of the apology wounded the deeper.

XI. The rites of sepulture being performed, a tem­

ple and religious worship were decreed to the memo­

ry of Augustus. The senate now turned their suppli­

cations to Tiberius. A direct answer could not be

drawn from him. " He talked of the magnitude and

" the weight of empire; he distrusted his own abilities:

" the comprehensive mind of Augustus was, indeed,

" equal to the charge; but for himself, called as he

" had been by that emperor to a share in the adminis-

v " tration, he knew by experience, that, to direct the

"affairs of a great nation, was to be in a state of

