34 THE ANNALS [A. U. C. 767.

A general outcry followed. They complained of the

price exacted for relaxations of duty; they mentioned

the miserable pittance which they received for their

daily pay; they set forth their various hardships, and

in particular their unremitting labour at the intrench-

ments, the fatigue of carrying provisions, wood, and

forage, with a detail of other employments, sometimes

imposed by necessity, and frequently to prevent idle­

ness in the camp, The clamour of the veterans was

outrageous; they had served thirty years and more,

and when were they to expect a cessation of misery ?

They desired a retreat for old ago, that they might

not languish in despair, and wait till the hand of death

released them from their troubles. Some demanded

immediate payment of the legacies bequeathed by

Augustus. They offered up ardent vows for the suc­

cess of Germanicus; assuring him, if he wished to

seize the sovereign power, that they were to a man

devoted to his service.

Struck with horror, and dreading the contagion of

so foul a crime, Germanicus leaped from the tribunal.

The soldiers sword in hand opposed his passage, and

even threatened violence if he did not return. The

prince was resolved to perish, rather than forfeit his

honour. He drew his sword, and pointed it to his

breast, ready to plunge it to his heart. The people

near him stopped his hand; but the crowd at a dis­

tance, and even some who dared to advance, had the

insolence to bid him strike: one in particular, by

name Calusidius, presented a naked sword, adding at

the same time, Take this; it is sharper than your own.

This behaviour, even in the moment of frenzy, ap­

peared to the soldiers an atrocious act. A pause

ensued. The friends of Germanicus seized the oppor­

tunity, and conveyed him to his tent.

XXXVI. A Council was immediately called. It

was well known that the insurgents were preparing

a depu tation to the army on the Upper Rhine, in order

to engage them in the revolt, and make it a common

cause. The city of the Ubians was devoted to de­

struction. From the pillage of thaf place, the plan

of the mutineers was to proceed to greater lengths^

