A. D. 16.] 77 OF TACITUS.

Some were of a shorter size, sharpened to & point at

the stern and prow, and broad in the middle, the bet­

ter to endure the fury of the waves; others were flat-

t>ottomed, that they might without difficulty run in

upon the shore. A great number had rudders at each

end, that, by a sudden turn of the oars, they might

work with facility either way. In many of the ships,

formed as well to carry sail as to advance with the

stroke of the oar, arches were raised on the decks, of

strength to bear the engines of war, and at the same

time afford room for horses and provisions. The fleet

thus equipped, displayed a magnificent spectacle;

while the swell of the sails, the alacrity of tho oars,

and the bustle of their soldiers struck a general ter­

ror. The isle of Batavia was the place appointed for

the general rendezvous. The shore in those parts

being easy of approach, the troops might be speedily

landed, and again embarked with expedition, so as to

spread an alarm through the country. The Rhine,

embracing in its course a few small islands, flows in

one united stream, till it reaches the point of Bata­

via ; where it branches off in two different channels;

one running with rapid force along the confines of

Germany, and, till it fall into the ocean, still retain­

ing its original name; the other, with a wider but

less violent current,, washes the side of Gaul, and by

the inhabitants is called tho Wahal, till at last, losing

itself in the Mcuse, it takes the name of that river

and through an immense opening discharges itself

into the German Ocean.

VII. While the fleet was preparing for the expedi­

tion, Germanicus ordered Silius, with a light detach­

ment, to make an irruption into the territory of the

Cattians. Meanwhile* having intelligence that the

fort upon the river Luppia was invested, he marched

himself, at tlie head of six legions, to relieve the gar­

rison. A sudden fall of heavy rains obliged Silius to

desist from his enterprise. He returned with a mo­

derate booty, and two prisoners; one the wife, the

other the daughter, of Arpus, prince of the Cattians.

Germanicus was not able to bring the Germans to an

engagement. He no sooner appeared before tha

