-A. D. 14.] OF TACITUS.

** an army, when ho was yet a young man, and in a  
" private station. By bribery and corruption he sc-

44 duced to himself the forces of the consuls. To the

44 friends of Pompey's party he wore a mask, affecting

"republican principles: he deceived the senate; and

" by an extorted decree possessed himself of the fas-

" Ces, and the praetorian authority. How long did the

44 consuls Hirtius and Pansa survive that event?

44 They were both cut off. Did they fall by the hand

M of the enemy? Who can be certain that Pansa did

44 not die by poison infused into his wound, and Hir-

"tius by the treachery of his own soldiers? If that

" was their fate, is it clear that Augustus was not an

" actor in that scene of iniquity ? That he put him-

" self at the head of both their armies, is a fact well

" known. Having extorted the consulship from a rc-

" luctant senate, he threw off the mask, and turned

" against the commonwealth the arms which had

" been entrusted to him in the cause of liberty against

" Marc Antony. What shall be said of the fury of

" proscriptions? He seized the lands of Roman citi-

" zens, and divided them among his creatures. These

" were acts of violence, to this hour unjustified even

" by those who advised the measure.

"To atone for the death of a father, Brutus and

44 Cassius fell a sacrifice : so far, perhaps, may be al-

" lowed; but whether that deadly feud, when the good

" of the commonwealth required it, might not have

44 been to his immortal honour, appeased in silence,

" may still be made a question. Be it as it may, the

" younger Pompey was ruined by an insidious peace,

4i and Lepidus was undone by treachery. Marc An-

" tony relied upon the treaties of Tarentum and Brun-

" dusium : he went further; ho married the sister of

" Augustus; and, in consequence of that insidious al-

" liance, lost his li^e. Peace, it is true, was soon af-

" ter established: but what kind of peace? The

" slaughter of Lollius and Varus stained it in Ger-

" many; and the massacre of the Varros, the Egnatii,

"and the Julii, made Rome a theatre of blood."

From the public conduct of Augustus, a transition

Was made to his domestic character. " Livia was

Vol. i.—B

