\. 1,.22.] 179 OF TACITUS.

-,w.'. style, ambiguous and inexplicable. He com-  
. b led the zeal of the fathers, even in a matter of

10 importance, but he desired that, for the future,

riu alone should not be punished with so much

.,..j pitation. He praised the humanity of Lepidus,

yjt , ound no fault with Agrippa. This produced a

1 e, by which it was enacted, that no sentence of

.' pronation should, for the future, be sent to the

l. ary, till the tenth day after passing it; and in the

interval, execution was to be suspended. The fathers,

however, were not to have the power of rejudging

their own acts, or revoking their sentence. The ap­

peal was to be to Tiberius, and no time could soften

that implacable temper.

LII. Caius Sulpicius and Decimus Heterius were

the next consuls. The year was free from foreign

commotions; but at Rome new laws were expected to

check the growth of luxury, and that apprehension

spread a general alarm. The prodigality of the times

had risen to the highest pitch. In many articles of

expense, and those the heaviest, the real price might

be concealed i but the cost of the table was too well

understood. The profusion, with which luxury was

maintained, could not remain a secret. It was there­

fore apprehended, that a prince, addicted to the fru­

gality of ancient manners, would endeavour by severe

i emulations to control the mischief.

The subject was opened in the senate by Caius Bi-

bulus, one of the sediles: his colleague joined to sup­

port him. They stated that the sumptuary laws

were fallen into contempt. The extravagance in fur­

niture and utensils, though prohibited, grew every

day more enormous, insomuch that, by modern pe­

nalties, the mischief was not to be cured. The se­

nate, without further debate, referred the whole to

the consideration of the emperor. Tiberius weighed

every circumstance: he knew that passions, which

had taken root could not be easily weeded out of the

heart: he considered how far coercive measures might

be a public grievance. If an unsuccessful attempt

gave a victory to vice, the defeat he saw would be a

disgrace to government; and tho necessity of waging,

