44 THE ANNALS [A. U. C. 767.

be suffered to tarnish in the eye of the public. What

is seen at a distance, is most respected. If Drusus

and Germanicus reserved some points for the consi­

deration of their father, the inexperience of youth

would be a sufficient apology. Should the mutineers

persist with obstinacy, there would still be time for

the prince to interpose, and either by rigour, or con­

ciliating measures, to restore the ancient discipline.

If he went in person, and the insurgents spurned his

authority, what resource was left?—These considera­

tions had their weight; and yet, to have the appear­

ance of being willing to face his armies was part of.

his policy. He played this game so well, that he

seemed every day upon the point of leaving Rome.

He settled his train of attendants, ordered his camp

equipage, equipped his fleets; still contriving, by

specious pretences, to give a colour to delay. The

winter season, he said, was near at hand, and the

weight of affairs at Rome claimed his attention. The

most discerning were for some time the dupes of his

dissimulation. The people were much longer amused,

delusion.

XLVIH. Germanicus in the mean time was ready,

with his collected force, to act against the rebel le­

gions. He was willing, notwithstanding, to suspend'

his operations, till time should show whether the late

example had wrought the minds of the soldiers to

submission, and a due sense of their duty. With this,

intent, he sent despatches to Carina, to inform that

officer, that he was advancing at the head of a power­

ful army; resolved, if justice was not previously exe­

cuted, to put the whole body to the sword. Cojcina

communicated, in a confidential manner, his secret

instructions to the standard-bearers, to the inferior of­

ficers, and such of the private men as were known to

be well affected. He recommended to them to avert

the danger that hung over the legions, and in good

time to secure their lives. In times of peace, he said,

there is always leisure to investigate the truth, and

separate the man of merit from the turbulent and se-

and the provinces were

