126 THE ANNALS [A.U.C. 772.

to his father's measures, had a portion of the realm;

the rest was granted to the son of Cotys, then under

age. During their minority, Trebellienus Rufus, of

pnetorian rank, undertook the government of the

kingdom in trust for the heir of Cotys, according to

the precedent of former times, when the senate sent

Marcus Lepidus to administer the affairs of Egypt in

the capacity of regent and guardian to the children

of Ptolemy. Rhescuporis was conveyed to Alexan­

dria; and there attempting to make his escape, or

perhaps unjustly charged with that design, he was

seized and put to death.

LXVIII. About the same time Vonones, who, as

has been mentioned, was detained in Cilicia, made a

like attempt, but with no better success. Having

corrupted the guards, he intended to push his way

into Armenia, and thence to the Albanians and He-

niochians, flattering himself that he should be able to

penetrate into Scythia, and there obtain protection

from the reigning king, who was his near relation.

With this intent he went on a hunting party; and*

having watched his opportunity, betook himself to

flight. Turning off from the sea-coast he struck into

the woods, and rode at full speed towards the river

Pyramus. The inhabitants, on the first alarm, de­

molished the bridges. The river was not fordable.

Vonones was found wandering along the banks, and

by order of Vibius Fronto, the commander of the ca­

valry, loaded with fetters. He did not long survive.

Remnius, a resumed veteran, had been entrusted

with the custody of his person. This man, in a sud­

den transport of pretended passion, drew his sword

and ran the unhappy prince through the body. The

secret cause of this violent act cannot now be ascer­

tained : the general opinion was, that the soldier had

been bribed to favour the king's escape, and, rather

than be detected as an accomplice, choose to be an

assassin.

LXIX. Germanicus, on his return from Egypt,

found all his regulations, in the civil as well as the mi­

litary line, totally abolished, or changed to a system

directly contrary to his intentions. Hence % new

