A. D. 19.] OF TACITC8. 133

ing as much as possible in the open sea, without

touching at any of the islands, or approaching too

near to the main land. Meanwhile, deserters crowd­

ed in from all quarters. Piso formed them into com­

panies ; he armed the lowest followers of the army,

and with this hasty levy embarked for the continent.

He had not long been landed, when a body of recruits,

marching to the legions in Syria, fell in his way. He

drew them over to his party, and by circular letters

demanded succours from the petty kings of Cilicia.

The younger Pisb, though he had objected to the

measure, was not inactive in his father's service.

LXXIX. Piso's fleet, and that which conveyed

Agrippina, met near the coast of Lycia and Pamphilia.

They beheld each other with animosity. Both par­

ties were eager to come to action; but they passed

each other, content with throwing out reproaches and

opprobrious language. Vibius Marsus summoned

Piso " to appear at Rome, and stand his trial." Piso

answered with derision, " that he would be sure to

" attend, when the prsetor, vested with jurisdiction in

" matters of poison, had cited the parties, and ap-

" pointed a day." Meanwhile Domitius, who had land­

ed at Laodicea, in the province of Syria, advanced

towards the winter-quarters of the sixth legion; expect­

ing in that corps, to find the minds of the men ripe for

mutiny and desertion. By the vigilance of Pacuvius,

who commanded in those parts, the attempt was frus­

trated. Sentius, by letters to Piso, complained of

these proceedings; at the same time warning him nei­

ther to corrupt the army nor disturb the peace of the

province. His next care was to draught from the le­

gions all such soldiers as were known to be attached

to Germanicus, or adverse to his enemies! He repre­

sented the attempts of Piso, as an invasion of the im­

perial dignity, and a war against the commonwealth.

Having excited the ardour of his men, he, marched

into Cilicia, prepared to decide the dispute by force

of arms.

LXXX. Piso found himself presned on every side,

and yet was determined not to abandon his enterprise.

He seized a strong hold in Cilicia, called the castle of

Vol. I.—M

