A. D. 20.] OF TACITUS. 163

lusius, and Sallustius Crispus. The former was of

an ancient family, at all times highly honoured,

though never raised above the prsetorian rank. The

deceased was the first of his house that rose to the

consulship. When it was afterwards necessary to

regulate the classes of the equestrian order, he was

for that purpose advanced to the dignity of censor.

In the course of his time he accumulated an immo­

derate fortune, and laid the foundation of that rank

and splendour, in which his family flourished after

him.

The ancestors of Crispus were of equestrian rank.

By the maternal line, he was grand-nephew to Caius

Sallustius, the accomplished Roman historian. Being

adopted by that illustrious writer, he assumed the fa­

mily name; and, though the road to honours lay open

before him, the example of Msecenas was the model,

on which he formed his conduct. Never aspiring to

the rank of senator, he lived in a degree of splendour

that eclipsed the consular magistrates, and even the

commanders of armies, who had triumphed for their

victories. The austerity of ancient manners was to

his taste. In his apparel and equipage he was gay

and costly; in his style of living, fond of elegance,

and even of luxury. Uniting in his character oppo­

site qualities, he was at once a man of pleasure, and

a statesman of consummate ability. The vigour of his

mind, though often relaxed in indolence, was such as

qualified him for the most arduous affairs. When

occasion called, he returned to business with an clas­

tic spring, that showed he gained new strength from

inactivity. While Msecenas lived and flourished,

Crispus acted the second character. Succeeding af­

terwards to that minister, he took the lead in the ca­

binet, the first in favour, and in all secret transactions

the confidential manager. Agrippa Posthumus was

cut off under his direction. In the decline of life he

retained the appearance of power, without the reality;

a reverse of fortune which had been felt by Msecenas,

and which, by some fatality, is the usual end of all

who bask in the sunshine of a court. • Between the

prince and his favourite, weariness and satiety sue­

