50 THE ANNALS [A. U. C. 768.

popular condescension. Tiberius was of a different

character: but the minds of men, softened by luxury,

and during a long reign dissolved in pleasure, could

not easily conform to that austerity, which suited the

rigid temper of the prince.

LV. In the consulship of Drusus Csesar and Caius

Norbanus, a triumph was decreed, to Germanicus,

though the war was not yet brought to a conclusion.

The prince had concerted his plan of operations for

the ensuing summer; but he thought proper, early in

the spring, to open the campaign, by a sudden irrup­

tion into the territories of the Cattians; a people dis­

tracted among themselves by the opposite factions of

Arminius and jBegestes; the former famous for his

treachery to the Romans, and the latter for unshaken

fidelity. Arminius was the common disturber of Ger­

many; Segestes, on the other hand, had given re­

peated proofs of his pacific temper. When measures

were taken for a general insurrection, he discovered

the conspiracy; and during the banquet which pre­

ceded the massacre of Varus, he proposed that he

himself, Arminius, and other chiefs, should be seized,

and loaded with irons. By that vigorous measure he

was sure that the minds of the common people would

be depressed with fear; and, having lost their chiefs,

none would dare to rise in arms. The general, of

course, would have leisure to discriminate the inno­

cent from the guilty. But Varus was fated to perish,

and Arminius struck the blow. In the present junc­

ture, Segestes was compelled by the ardour of his

countrymen to take up arms. He still however re­

tained his former sentiments. He had, besides, mo­

tives of a private nature: his daughter, whom he had

promised in marriage to another chief, was ravished

from him by Arminius. The father and the son-in-

law were by consequence inveterate enemies; and that

connexion, which between persons mutually well in­

clined forms the tenderest friendship, served only to

inflame the animosity of the two contending chiefs.

LVI. Encouraged by these dissensions, Germani­

cus appointed Csecina to the command of four legions,

fire thousand of the allies, and the German recruits

