THE ANNALS [A. U.C. 773.

I' j g under the control of his father, ought not

t. :,werable for the civil war. He mentioned

tV 1 due to an illustrious house, and even la-

rr 4.ntH the unhappy lot of the deceased, though

li j.. '. : upon him by misconduct. He spoke in fa­

vour of i'lancina, but with an air of embarrassment,

conscious of his own duplicity. The intercession of

his mother was a colour for the part he acted; but

thinking men were by no means satisfied. On the

contrary, their hatred of Livia was more embittered

than ever. They exclaimed without reserve, " Shall

" the grandmother admit to her presence a woman

" stained with the blood of her grandson ? Shall she

" converse in familiar freedom with a murderess ?

"Must she receive to her arms an abandoned woman,

" and by her influence rescue her from the vengeance

" of the senate ? The laws protect the meanest citi-

" zen; but in, the case of Germanicus they have lost

" their vigour. Vitellius and Veranius poured forth

" their eloquence in the cause of a prince cut off by

" treachery, while the emperor and his mother side

" with Plancina. That pernicious woman may now

" with impunity continue her trade of poisoning; she

" may practise her detestable arts on the life of Agrip-

" pina and her children; she may proceed in her ini-

" quity, and, with the blood of an illustrious, but un-

" happy family, glut the rage of a dissembling uncle

" and a worthless grandmother." For two days to­

gether Rome was amused with a mock-trial of Plan­

cina. Tiberius, in the mean time, exhorted Piso's

sons to stand forth in defence of their mother. The

charge was opened; the witnesses were examined, and

the orators spared neither zeal nor eloquence in sup­

port of the prosecution: no reply was made; the

wretched condition of a helpless woman began to ope­

rate on the feelings of the fathers, and prejudice was

melted into pity. Aurelius Cotta, the consul, was the

first that gave his vote according to a settled rule

whenever the question was put by the emperor.

The opinion of Gotta was, that the name of Piso

should be rased out of the public registers: that part

of his estate should be confiscated, and the rest granted

