A. D. 14.] OF TACITUS. 39

shame and remorse succeeded, and every breast was

touched with sympathy. All lamented the condition

of Agrippina. They called to mind the splendour of

her father Agrippa; they recollected the majesty of

Augustus, her grand-father; they remembered Dru-

sus, her father-in-law: her own personal accomplish­

ments, her numerous issue, and her virtue, endeared

her to the army. Her son, they said, was a native of

the camp; he was educated in the tents of the legions;

and surnamed Caligula, from the boots so called,

which, to win the affections of the soldiers, he wore

in common with the meanest of the army. Amidst

these reflections, the honour intended for the people

of Treves made the deepest impression. Stung by

that idea, they pressed forward to Agrippina; they

entreated her to stay; they opposed her passage; they

ran in crowds to Germanicus, imploring him not to

let her depart. The prince, still warm with mixed

emotions of grief and indignation, addressed them in

the following manner: .

XLII. " My wife and child are ever dear to me, but

"no more so than my father and the commonwealth.

" But the emperor will be safe in his own imperial

"dignity, and the commonwealth has other armies to

" fight her battles. For my wife and children, if from

" their destruction you might derive additional glory,

" I could yield them up a sacrifice in such a cause: at

"present, 1 remove them from the rage of frantic men.

" If horrors are still to multiply, let my blood glut

"your fury. The great-grandson of Augustus, and

"the daughter-in-law of Tiberius, need not be left to

"fill the measure of your iniquity. Without that

"horrible catastrophe the scene of guilt may end.

"But let me ask you, in these last few days what

"have you not attempted? What have you left un-

"violated? By what name shall I now address you?

"Shall I call you soldiers? Soldiers! who have dared

" to besiege the son of your emperor! who have made

"him a prisoner in his own intrenchments! Can I

"call you citizens? Citizens! who have trampled un-

* der your feet the authority of the senate; who have  
" violated the most awful sanctions, even those which

