84 [A. U. C. 769. THE A!raiM

others, where the windings of the river made an open­

ing, stretching into length. In the rear of the Ger­

mans, and at a small distance, rose a thick forest; the

trees large and lofty, with branches expanding near

the top; but the trunks bare towards the bottom, and

the intermediate space clear of underwood. Of this

plain, and the approaches to the wood, the barbarians

took possession. The Cheruscans, apart from the rest,

took post on the hills, to watch the fortune of the

day, and in good time to pour down with fury on the

Roman army. Germanicus ranged his men in the

following order: the Gauls and German auxiliaries

formed the front of the line, followed by a body of

archers on foot, and four legions, with Germanicus

at the head of two prsetorian cohorts, and a select

body of cavalry. Four other legions, with the light

infantry, the horse-archers, and the remainder of the

allies, brought up the rear. The whole army pro­

ceeded in order of battle, all instructed to preserve

their ranks, and to receive with firmness the first im­

pression of the enemy.

XVII. The Cheruscans, too impatient to keep their

post, rushed with impetuosity from their hills. Ger­

manicus no sooner saw their motions, than he sent a

chosen body of horse to charge them in flank, while

Stertimus, with another detachment, wheeled round

to fall upon the rear. The general himself was ready,

if occasion required, to second the attack at the head

of the legions. In that moment eight eagles were

seen stretching with rapid wing towards the wood,

where they entered, and disappeared. This was re­

ceived as an omen of victory. " Advance," said Ger­

manicus, "the Roman birds have marshalled»you the

" way. Pursue the tutelar deities of the legions." The

infantry began the assault in front: the cavalry, at

the same time, charged the flank and rear. The bar­

barians, thrown into confusion, presented an uncom­

mon spectacle: those who had been stationed in the

woods were driven forward to the plain; and from

the plain, the foremost lines fled for shelter to the

woods. Between both the Cheruscans were driven

down from their heights. Arminius, their chief, per-

