; . [A. U.C.772.

Celendris. With a body of deserters, incorporated

with the recruits lately intercepted, and the auxiliaries

sent by the kings of Cilicia, he threw himself into the

place, resolved to hold out to the last. To his forces

he added his own slaves, and those of Plancina, form­

ing altogether a number equal to a legion. To excite

their courage, he complained aloud that he, the go­

vernor appointed by Tiberius, was driven out of the

province, not by the legions (for they invited him to

return) but by Sentius, who, with the specious colour

of public motives, varnished over his own private ani­

mosity. He told his troops, that they had only to

show themselves in force, and the aflFair would be de­

cided. The soldiers of the adverse party, at the sight

of Piso, whom they hailed the father of the legions,

would lay down their arms and submit to the man

who not only had justice on his side, but if necessary,

courage and resolution to maintain his rights. Hav­

ing thus exhorted his people, he drew them out be­

fore the walls of the castle, on the summit of a craggy

hill. The place was every where else surrounded by

the sea. The veterans, under Sentius, advanced in

regular order. A body of reserve followed to support

them. On one side were seen skill and bravery: on

the other, nothing but the advantage of the ground;

no courage to incite; no hope to animate; and no

warlike weapons, but only such rustic tools as the

men were able to snatch up in the first tumult of a

dangerous enterprise. An engagement followed; but

the victory was no longer in suspense, than while the

Romans were employed in forcing their way up the

ascent of the hill. The steep being surmounted, the

Cicilians fled for shelter to their fortifications.

LXXXI. The fleet under the command of Sentius

lay at anchor under the walls of Celendris. Piso

made a sally, with intent to seize the ships. Being

repulsed, he showed himself before the works of the

castle; he complained of cruel injustice, and tried by

the force of pathetic language to soften the legions in

his favour; he called upon individuals by name, and

by ample promises hoped to raise a spirit of sedition.

His success was such, that an eagle-bearer of the

