A. D. 15.] G3 OF TACITUS.

down to the invasion of Gaul. The consternation

was such, that numbers proposed to demolish the

bridge over the Rhine. Vile as the project was, there

were men who, through fear, would have been hardy

enough to carry it into execution, if Agrippina had

not prevented so foul a disgrace. Superior to the

weakness of her sex, she took upon her, with an he­

roic spirit, the functions of a general officer. She at­

tended to the wants of the men; she distributed clothes

to the indigent, and medicines to the sick. Pliny has

left, in his history of the wars in Germany, a descrip­

tion of Agrippina, at the head of the bridge, reviewing

the soldiers as they returned, and with thanks and

congratulations applauding their valour. This con­

duct alarmed the jealous temper of Tiberius: " Such

" active zeal," he said," sprung from sinister motives;

" those popular virtues had not for their object the

" enemies of Rome. The soldiers were caressed for

" other purposes. What remained for the commander

" if a woman can thus unsex herself at the head of

" the eagles? She reviews the legions, and by larges-

" ses draws to herself the affections of the men. Was

" it not enough for her ambition, that she showed her

" son to the army, and carried him from tent to tent,

" in the uniform of the common soldier, with the title

" of Csesar Caligula? This woman towers above the

" commanders of the legions, and even above their

" general officer. She can suppress an insurrection,

" though the name and majesty of the prince makes

"no impression." These were the reflections that

planted thorns in the breast of Tiberius. By the arts

of Sejanus, the malice of his heart was still more en­

venomed. That minister studied the character of his

master. He practised on his passions, and had the

skill to sow in time the seeds of hatred, which he

knew would work in secret, and at a distant day

break out with collected force.

LXX. Gcrmanicus, who had sailed with the legions,

thought proper to lighten his ships, in order to render

them more fit for the navigation of the Northern seas,

full of sand-banks, and often dangerous hoth at the

flood and the tide of ebb. ' With this view, he disem­

