40 THE ANNALS [A. U. C. 767.

honourable wounds, atonement would then be made.

Germanicus embraced the opportunity; and throwing

a bridge over the river, advanced with an army of

twelve thousand legionary soldiers, six-and-twenty

cohorts of the allies, and eight squadrons of horse;

all free from disaffection, and during the late commo­

tions strict observers of discipline. ,

L. The Germans, posted at a small distance, ex­

ulted in full security. They saw with pleasure the

cessation of arms, occasioned by the death of Augus­

tus; and the revolt of the legions inspired them with

fresh courage. The Romans, by a forced march,

passed the Csesian forest; and having levelled part of

the rampart formerly begun by Tiberius, pitched their

tents on the spot. In the front and rear of the camp,

they threw up intrenchments. The flanks were for­

tified with a pile of trees, hewn down for the pur­

pose. Their way from that place lay through a

gloomy forest: but of two roads, which was most eli­

gible, was matter of doubt; 'whether the shortest and

most frequented, or another more difficult, and sel­

dom attempted, but for that,reason unsuspected by

the enemy. The longest road was preferred. The

army pushed on with vigour. The scouts had brought

intelligence that the approaehing night was a festival,

to be celebrated by the barbarians with joy and re­

velry. In consequence of this information, Csecina

had orders to advance with the light cohorts, and

clear a passage through the woods. The legions fol­

lowed at a moderate distance. The brightness of

the night favoured their design. They arrived, with

rapid expedition, at the villages of the Marsians, and

without delay formed a chain of posts, to inclose the

enemy on every side. The barbarians were sunk in

sleep and wine, some stretched on the beds, others at

full length under the tables; all in full security, with­

out a guard, without posts, and without a sentinel on

duty. No appearance of war was seen; nor could

that be called a peace, which was only the effect of

savage riot, the languor of a debauch.

LI. Germanicus, to spread the slaughter as wide

as possible, divided his men into four battalions. The

