A. D.17.] 109 OF TACITUS.

" without knowledge or experience; he tears the laurel

" from another's brow, and founds his merit on fraud

" and murder: he fell by surprise upon three legions,

" and put an unsuspecting general, with his whole

" army, to the sword. All Germany has had reason to

" rue the carnage of that day; nor has Arminius any

" thing to boast. His wife and his son are languishing

" in Roman chains. Has my conduct producedsodread-

" ful a catastrophe? Tiberius, at the head of twelve

"legions, advanced against me; but the glory of the

" German name suffered no diminution. The peace

K which followed was made on equal terms. For that

" treaty I have no reason to blush. Hostilities were

" suspended, and you gained time to deliberate which

" was most advisable, war with Rome, or a safe and

" honourable peace."

The two armies were in this manner animated by

their respective chiefs. The several nations added

their own private motives. The Cheruscans took

the field to maintain their ancient glory, and the

Langobards to defend their liberty recently recovered.

The Suevians aimed at an extension of territory. No

battle was ever fought with more inflamed resent­

ment, and none with such equivocal success. The

right wing on both sides were put to flight. A deci­

sive action was expected ; when Maroboduus drew off

his forces, and encamped on the neighbouring hills ;

acknowledging by his retreat, tho superior strength of

tile enemy. Desertion in a little time thinned his

army. He retired into the country of tho Marcoma-

nians, and thence sent a deputation to Tiberius, in

hopes of obtaining succours. The emperor's answer

was, that Maroboduus, in the late war with the Che­

ruscans, had given the Romans no assistance ; there

was therefore no pretence for the present application.

Drusus, notwithstanding, was despatched, in the man­

ner already mentioned to secure the frontiers from the

incursions of the enemy, and to maintain the tran­

quillity of the empire.

XLV1I. In the course of this year twelve principal

cities in Asia were destroyed by an earthquake.

The calamity happened in the nipht, and was for that

Vol. l.—K

