98 THE ANXALS [A. U. C. 769. :

ther. He promised to attend the hearing of the cause,

in favour of Urgulania; and that mark of filial com­

pliance he thought would not be considered as a

stretch of power.

He set out accordingly from the palace, his guards

following at a distance. He proceeded slowly through

the streets, amidst a concourse of people, with an air

of calm composure, occasionally loitering in conver­

sation. Piso's friends tried all in their power to make

him desist from his suit; but nothing could shake that

resolute temper. To end the controversy, Livia

thought good to pay the whole of his demand. Piso

by his firmness did honour to his character, and Ti­

berius, gained the popular applause. Urgulania con­

tinued, notwithstanding, to tower above the condition

of a citizen; insomuch that, being summoned as a

witness in a matter depending before the senate, her

pride would not suffer her to appear. A prsetor was

sent to take her examination in private; though, by

ancient usage, the attendance of the vestal virgins,

whenever cited to give their testimony, was never

dispensed with, either in the forum or the tribunals

of justice.

XXXV. Part of this year was remarkable for a to­

tal suspension of all public business. Of this inactive

state it would be scarce worth while to take notice

if the different sentiments of Cneius Piso and Asinius

Gallus did not seem to merit attention. Tiberius gave

notice, that he intended to absent himself for some

time from Rome. Piso declared his opinion, that, in

such a juncture, the senate ought to attend with

greater assiduity to the despatch of business. The fa­

thers and the Roman knights might still discharge

their respective functions; " the dignity of the coin-

" monwealth required it." Asinius Gallus saw with a

jealous eye, that his rival had taken the popular side;

and, to counteract his design, rose to oppose the mo­

tion. " Nothing," he said, " could be truly great, or

" worthy of the Roman people, unless conducted un-

" der the eye of the prince. The affairs of state, and

" the great conflux of people, not only from all parts

" of Italy, but from the provinces, ought to be reserved

