100 THE ANNALS [A. U. C. 769.

of such liberal donations, struck the minds of men

with so much wonder, as the high tone with which

he rejected the application of Marcus Hortalus, a

young man of distinction, but embarrassed in his cir­

cumstances. He was grandson to Hortensius, the cele­

brated orator. To prevent the extinction of that il­

lustrious family, Augustus pressed him to marry, and

seconded his advice by a present of a thousand great

sesterces. The senate was sitting in the emperor's

palace: Hortalus attended. Having stationed his four

children before the door, he rose in his place, direct­

ing his eyes, first to the statue of Hortensius, among

the famous orators, then to the statue of Augustus,

and spoke to the following effect: " My children, con­

script fathers, are now before you: you see their

" number, and their helpless infancy. They were not

" mine by choice: the command of Augustus made

" me a father. Let me add, the merit of my ances.

" tors stood in so distinguished a light, that the line

" ought not to fail for want of issue. As to myself, the

" distraction of the times left me nothing but difficul-

"ties: involved in distress, destitute, without popular

" favour, and, above all, not endowed with eloquence,

" that peculiar gift and fortune of my family, I could

" have passed my days in humble content, resolved

" that poverty should neither make" me a disgrace te

"my ancestors, nor a burthen to my friends. The

" advice of Augustus was a command: I obeyed, and

" married. Behold the issue of that alliance, the pos,

" terity of consuls and dictators. It is not the language

" of vain glory that I utter; it is the voice of a father

" pleading for his children. Receive them, Csesar,

"to your protection: under your auspicious smiles

" they may live to deserve your favour, and to merit

" public honours. In the mean time, let their tender

" years claim compassion: they are the grandchildren

" of Hortensius, and they were fostered by Augustus."

XXXVIII. This speech made an impression in his

favour: but the inclination of the senate was sufficient

to sour a temper like that of Tiberius. He replied te

Hortalus nearly in the following words: "If the trade

" of begging is to be encouraged ( if the poor are te

