A. D. 15.] OF TACITUS

exertions to repair the losses of the army; each nation

offering, according to their respective abilities, a sup­

ply of arms, of horses, and money. Germanicus

thanked them for their zeal, but received arms and

horses only.. With his own funds he re'ieved the

wants of the soldiers; and to obliterate, or at least

soften the recollection of past misfortunes, he united

with generosity the most conciliating manners. He

visited the sick; he applauded their bravery; he ex­

amined their wounds; he encouraged some by pro­

mises; he roused others to a sense of glory; and in

general, filled all hearts with zeal for his person and

the success of his arms.

LXXII. Triumphal ornaments were this year de­

creed to Aulus Csecina, Lucius Apronius, and Caius

Silius, for their conduct under Germanicus. The title

of Father of his Country, so often pressed upon him

by the people, Tiberius once more declined; nor

would he consent that men should be sworn on his acts

though a vote for that purpose had passed the senate.

For this self-denial, he alleged the instability of hu­

man affairs, and the danger of the sovereign, always

growing in proportion to the eminence on which he

stands. Popular as this sentiment was, no man thought

it sincere. He who had lately revived, in all its ri­

gour, the law of violated majesty, could not be consi­

dered as the friend of civil liberty. The title, indeed,

of that law was known in ancient times, but the spi­

rit of it differed from the modern practice. During

the old republic, the treachery that betrayed an army,

the seditious spirit that threw the state into convul­

sion!, tne corrupt administration that impaired the

majesty of the Roman people, were the objects of the

law. Men were arraigned for their actions, but words

were free. Augustus was the first who warped the

law to new devices. The licentious spirit of Cassius

Severus, whose satirical pen had ridiculed the most

eminent of both sexes, excited the indignation of

the prince; and the pains and penalties of violated

majesty were, by a forced construction, extended to

defamatory libels. After his example, Tiberius, being

asked by the prator, Pompeius Macer, whether in

