170 THE ANNALS [A. U. C. 774.

the people, indulge his taste for pleasure; let him pass

his day in the glare of public spectacles, and his night

in social revelry, rather than live sequestered from

mankind, without a joy to cheer him, in painful vigils

and the gloom of solitude brooding over his cares,

and thinking only to engender mischief.

XXXVIII. The ruin of eminent citizens had not yet

appeased the rage of Tiberius and, his crew of in­

formers. An accusation was preferred by Ancharius

Priscus against Csesius Cordus, proconsul of Crete,

for peculation and violated majesty. The last arti­

cle was, at that time, the burden of every prosecu­

tion. Antistius Vetus, a man of the first consequence

in Macedonia, had been accused of adultery, and ac-'

quitted. This gave umbrage to Tiberius. He cen­

sured the judges, and ordered Vetus to be tried on

the usual charge of violated majesty. He represented

him as a man of a turbulent spirit, and an accom­

plice with Rhescuporis at the time when that barba­

rian, having put his nephew, Cotys, to death, was on

the eve of a war with Rome. Vetus fell a sacrifice.

He was interdicted from fire and water, with an ad­

ditional sentence, that he should be confined to some

island not contiguous either to Macedonia or Thrace.

Since the partition of the latter kingdom between

Rhsemetalces and the sons of Cotys, to whom Tre-

bellienus Rufus was appointed guardian, that country

continued in a state of tumult and hostility to Rome.

The people saw, with minds exasperated, the griev­

ances inflicted on the natives, and, having no pros­

pect of redress, accused Trebellienus no less than

Rhsemetalces. In the same juncture the Cselaletans,

the Odrysseans, Dians, and other adjacent states, in

one general revolt, had recourse to arms. They took

the field under their own respective chiefs, men of no

consideration, and all by their meanness and incapa­

city reduced to one common level. Hence no con­

certed plan, no spirit of union. By one party the

country was laid waste; another passed over mount

Hsemus, with a design to draw distant nations into

their confederacy; while the most numerous and best

