A. D. 20.] OF TACITUS.

"cancel what had been settled by an injured em-

"peror." From this time Decius Silanus lived at

Rome, a private citizen, without honours or prefer­

ment.

XXV. The next care of the senate was to soften the

rigour of the law Papia Poppsea; a law made by Au­

gustus in the decline of life, when the Julian institu­

tions were found ineffectual. The policy was, to

enforce, by additional sanctions, the penalties of celi­

bacy, and thereby increase the revenue. Marriage,

however, was not brought into fashion. To be with­

out heirs was still considered as a state that gave great

advantages. Prosecutors multiplied, and numbers

were every day drawn into danger. Informers were,

the interpreters of justice; and chicane and malice

wrought the ruin of families. The community la­

boured, at first, under the vices of the times, alid

afterwards, under the snares of law. From this re­

flection if we here go back to trace the origin of civil

institutions, and the progress of that complex system

which has grown up to harass mankind, the digression

will not be incurious, nor altogether foreign to our

purpose. , ' *

XXVI. In the early ages of the world, men led a

life of innocence and simplicity. Free from irregular

passions, they knew no corruption of manners; and

void of guilt, they had no need of laws. In the na­

tural emotion of the heart they found incitements to

virtue, and rewards were unnecessary. Having no

inordinate desires, they coveted nothing, and pains'

and penalties were unknown. In process of time, when

all equality was overturned, and, in the place of tem­

perance and moderation, ambition and violence began

to trample on the rights of man; then monarchy was

established, in several nations unlimited, absolute,

and flourishing at this hour. Some states, indeed, in

their first formation, or, at least, soon after they had

made an experiment of kings, preferred a government

by law; and law, in its origin, was like the manners

of the age, plain and simple. Of the several political

constitutions known in the world, that of Crete, esta­

blished by Minos; that of Sparta, by Lycurgns; and

