160 THE ANNALS [A. U.C.775.

continual war against the characters and fortunes of

the most eminent citizens, was what he wished to

avoid. After mature deliberation, he sent his thoughts

in writing to the senate, in substance as follows:

LIU. " Upon any other question, conscript fathers,

" it would perhaps be expedient that I should attend

" the debate in person, and, in my place, lay before

" you /what I conceivo to be for the advantage of the

" commonwealth. At present, it may be better that

" my eyes should not survey the scene. In so mixed

" an assembly, many no doubt, by their looks and

" manner, might he apt to betray a consciousness of

" their own vicious habits. The attention of the se-

" nate would naturally fix upon such men, and I

44 should, of course, be led to watch their behaviour:

44 in that case, the guilty would, as it were, be taken

" in the fact. Had the sediles, whose zeal deserves

" commendation, applied in the first instance to me,

"1 should, perhaps, have thought it advisable to con-

" nive at vices that have gathered strength from time,

" rather than expose to the world the inveteracy of

" the mischief, and the feebleness of legal remedies.

" Those magistrates, it must be acknowledged, have

" performed their duty with a spirit which every civil

" officer would do well to emulate. As to myself, to

"remain silent, were a desertion of the public; and

1i to speak out, may be impolitic. The part which

"1 sustain is neither that of sedile, prsetor, or consul.

" From the emperor something more than the minute

" detail of business is expected. The pre-eminence

" is painful, while individuals claim the merit of all

" the good that is done, and, if men transgress, the

" blame is transferred to the prince. At the expense

" of one, all are guilty. If a reform is in truth intend-

" ed, where must it begin? and how am I to restore

4i the simplicity of ancient times? Must I abridge

44 your villas, those vast domains, where tracts of land

"are laid out for ornament? Must I retrench the

" number of slaves, so great at present that every

44 family seems a nation in itself? What shall be said

" of massy heaps of gold and 'silver ? of statues

" wrought in brass, and an infinite collection of pic-

