178 [A.U.C.774. THE ANNALS

L. Manius Lepidus opposed the motion. He spoke

as follows: " If in our deliberations, conscript fathers,

" we advert to nothing but the flagitious sentiments,

" by which Lutorius has discovered the malignity of

" his heart, and wounded the ear of others, neither

" the dungeon, nor the rope, nor the torments, which

" the law ordains for slaves, would be adequate to

"the enormity of his guilt. But on the other hand,

" however great the depravity of mankind, there are

" degrees of punishment. The clemency of the

" prince interposes often to mitigate the rigour of the

"law; the wisdom of our ancestors has delivered

" down to us a system of justice founded in mercy,

" and you have, on many occasions, followed their

" example. If between error in judgment and malig-

" nity of heart a distinction is to be made, if words

" and criminal actions are not to be confounded, the

" case before us admits a sentence, which at once will

"reach the offence, and leave us no reason to blush

"either for our moderation or our severity. The

"complaints of the emperor when the guilty, by a

" voluntary death, have prevented the effect of his

" clemency, have been heard by us all. Lutorius

"lives; and should he continue to do so, will the

" state be in danger? His death will neither pro-

" mote the public interest, nor serve as an example to

" others. Productions such as his, the effusions of a

" wild and irregular fancy, may well be left to flutter

" for a time, and then, like all frivolous things, to be

" forgotten. Nothing serious or important is to be ex-

" pected from him, who betrays himself, not in the

" hearing of men, but in a circle of women. And my

" voice is against him: let him be condemned to ex-

" ile: let his effects be confiscated; let fire and water

" be interdicted. This is my opinion, the same as I

" should give, had he been in due form convicted on

" the law of violated majesty."

LI. Rubellius Blandus, of consular rank, was the

only person that assented to the opinion of Lepidus.

The rest concurred with Agrippa. The poet was hur­

ried away, and strangled in a dungeon. Concerning

these proceedings, Tiberius wrote to the senate in his

