A. D. 14.] 37 OF TACITUS.

rage and violence, the purple standard which was

there deposited. They broke open the doors; thoy

| forced their way into the house; and, dragging their

general out of his bed, with menaces of instant death

compelled him to surrender the standard. Flushed

with this exploit, they ran wild through the streets;

and meeting the deputies, then on their way to join

the prince, they poured forth a torrent of opprobrious

language, and threatened a general massacre.

Plancus was the first object of their fury. That il­

lustrious citizen could not, without dishonour to his

character, shrink back from a tumultuous rabble: he

was, however, compelled to take refuge in the camp

of the first legion. He there embraced the colours;

and, laying hold of the eagles, thought himself pro­

tected by the gods of the army. But even that sanc­

tuary was no longer a place of shelter; the soldiers

forgot the religion of the camp; and if Calpurnius,

the eagle-bearer, had not made a stout resistance, a

deed of horror, unheard of even among barbarians,

had been impiously perpetrated; and the blood of a ,

> Roman ambassador, in a Roman camp, had stained

the altar of the gods. At the return of day, when

the general, the men, and the actions of all might be

clearly distinguished, Germanicus entered the camp.

He ordered Plancus to be conducted to his presence,

and seated him near himself on the tribunal. He

complained of the distractions of the'time; but im­

puted what had happened not so much to the mad­

ness of the soldiers, as to the vengeance of the gods.

He explained the nature of the deputation f-om the

senate; he stated the rights of ambassadors; he

painted forth, in pathetic terms, the indignity offered

to a man of such high consideration as Plancus; and

lamented the disgrace that befel the legion. The sol­

diers heard him like men astonished, but not con­

vinced. Germanicus thought proper to dismiss the

deputies; but, to guard their persons, ordered a de­

tachment of the auxiliary horse to escort them.

XL. The conduct of Germanicus was censured by

many of his friends. " Why did he not withdraw to

"the army on the Upper Rhine? Discipline was there

Vol. I.—D

