132 THE AN NAM [A. U. C. 772.

" peased. To return to Syria, were to enter into a

" civil war with Sentius. The centurions and soldiers

" were not to be trusted. The memory of Germani-

" cus was still recent: and that affection for the

" Csesarian family, which had taken root in the minds

" of all, would operate throughout the army."

LXXVII. Domitius Celer, the intimate friend of

Piso, was of a contrary opinion. " The opportunity,"

he said, " should be seized without delay. Piso, and

"not Sentius, was the legal governor of Syria: the

" prsetorian jurisdiction, the ensigns of magistracy,

" and the command of the legions, were committed

" to his care. If the sword must be drawn, who had

" so much right on his side as the person who receiv-

" ed his commission from the emperor? Public ru-

" mour should not be too soon encountered. Give

" the report of the day time to ,grow stale, and it dies

" of itself. In the first heat of prejudice, innocence

" itself has often fallen a victim to popular clamour.

" If Piso, at the head of an army, stood at bay with

" his enemies, new emergencies, which no wisdom ,

" could foresee, might unexpectedly assist his cause.

" Why should he hasten to the capital? Was it his

" interest to enter Rome with Agrippina bearing the

" urn of Germanicus? Did he mean, unheard and

" undefended, to try the effect of female lamentation,

" or to be hurried to execution by the fury of a licen-

" tious rabble ? Livia, it is true, is of your party, and

" Tiberius will favour you; but both will act in se-

" cret: and, in fact, none will grieve for Germanicus

" with so much ostentation of sorrow, as they who,

" in their hearts rejoice at the event."

LXXVIII. The turbulent genius of Piso was easily

satisfied with this reasoning. He despatched letters

to Tiberius, charging Germanicus with pride and

luxury; and farther complaining, that, with views

of ambition, he had driven out of Syria the lawful

governor, duly appointed by the emperor. That go­

vernor, he added, would now resume the command;

and, by a faithful discharge of so important a trust,

demonstrate his zeal for the public service. Thus de­

termined, he ordered Domitius to sail for Syria; keep­

