62 [A.U.C. 768. THE ANNALS

less in agitation; their hopes of conquest, the love of

plunder, and the jarring counsels of their chiefs, dis­

tracted every mind. The measure proposed by Armi-

nius was, to let the Romans break up their camp, and

surround them again in the narrow denies, and in the

bogs and marshes. Inguiomer, more fierce and vio­

lent, and for that reason more acceptable to the ge­

nius of barbarians, was for storming the camp: it

would be carried by a general assault: the number of

prisoners would be greater, and the booty in better

condition. His advice prevailed. At the point of day

the attack began; at the first onbet the Germans level­

led the fosse, threw in heaps of hurdles, and attempt­

ed a scalade. The ramparts were thinly manned; the

soldiers, who showed themselves, put on the appear­

ance of a panic. The barbarians climbed to the top

of the works. In that moment the signal was given

to the cohorts; clarions and trumpets sounded through

the camp; the Romans in a body, and with one ge­

neral shout, rushed on to the attack. They fell upon

the enemy in the rear; crying aloud, as they ad­

vanced, "Here are no woods; no treacherous fens;

" we are here on equal ground, and the gods will de-

" cide between us." The barbarians had promised

themselves an easy conquest. The' affair, they ima­

gined, would be with a handful of men; but their sur­

prise rose in proportion, when they heard the clangour

of trumpets, and saw the field glittering with arms.

Tho sudden terror magnified their danger. To be

elated with success, and to droop in adversity, is the

genius of savage nations. A dreadful slaughter fol­

lowed. The two chiefs betook themselves to flight;

Arminius unhurt, and Inguiomer dangerously wound­

ed. No quarter was given to the common men. The

pursuit continued as long as day-light and resentment

lasted. Night coming on, the legions returned to their

camp, covered with new wounds, and their provisions

no better than the day before; but health, and food,

and vigour, all things were foundin victory.'

LXIX. Meanwhile a report n spread round the

country, that the Roman army was cut to pieces, and

the Germans, flushed with conquest, were pouring

