A. D. 22. J op tacitus. 195

He produced and read a decree of the pontifical col­

lege, whereby it appeared that the priest of Jupiter,

when his health required it, or when he obtained a

dispensation from the supreme pontiff, might absent

himself from the duties of his function two nights at

most; provided it was not during the public ceremo­

nies, nor'more than twice in the course of the year.

From this regulation made by Augustus, it was evi­

dent that a year's absence, and of course a proconsu­

lar government, was incompatible with the sacerdotal

function. The authority of Lucius Metellus, who,

when high pontiff, would not suffer Aulus Posthu-

mius, a priest of Jupiter, to depart from Rome, was

also cited. It followed, that the province of Asia

could not be granted to Maluginensis. It fell to the

lot of the person of consular rank, who stood next in

seniority.

LXXII. During these transactions, Marcus Lepi-

dus petitioned the senate for leave to repair and de­

corate, at his own expense, the basilisk of Paulus,

that noble monument of the ^2milian family. The

display of private munificence in public works, which

embellished,the city, wus not yet fallen into disuse.

In the reign of Augustus without any objection from

that emperor, Taurus, Phillippus, and Balbus, with

the spoils which they had taken from the enemy, or

with the superfluity of their own immoderate wealth,

added greatly to the ornament of Rome, and by con­

sequence, to the honour of their families. Encou­

raged by this example, hut with a fortune much infe-'

rior, Lepidus revived the glory of his ancestors. The

theatre of Pompey had been destroyed by fire; ana,

the remaining branches of the family not being equal

to the expense of so great a structure, Tiberius de­

clared his intention to build a new edifice, with the

original name. He congratulated the senate, that

the damage occasioned by the late fire, was confined

to that single building. For this, he said, they were

obliged to the vigilance of Sejanus. The senate

decreed a statue to be placed in the theatre of Pom­

pey, in honour of the favourite. In a short time af-

