A. D. 14.] 11 OF TACITUS.

he affected neither pomp nor grandeur. The will be­

ing read, the funeral honours were taken into consi­

deration. The chief propositions were, that the pro­

cession should pass through the triumphal gale; this was

moved by Asinius Gallus: that the titles of all the lawi

of Augustus, and the names of the conquered nations,

should be carried before the body, was the motion of

Lucius Arruntius. Valerius Messala was of opinion,

that the oath of fidelity to Tiberius should be renewed

every year; and being thereupon interrogated by the

prince, whether that motion was made with his pri­

vity? I made it, said Messala, upon my own sugges­

tion ; in matters of public concern, however, it may give

umbrage, the conviction of my own heart shall be the

only rule of my conduct. The age had left no other

mode of flattery. The senate with one voice insisted

that the body should be borne to the funeral pile upon

their own shoulders. Tiberius assented with seeming

condescension but real arrogance. The Field of

Mars was the place appointed for the ceremony. A

proclamation was issued, warning the populace to re­

strain their zeal, and not require that the last duties

should be performed in the Forum, as had been done

with tumult and disorder at the funeral of Julius

Csesar.

On the day appointed for the ceremony, the sol­

diers were drawn up under arms; a circumstance that

served only to provoke the ridicule of all who remem­

bered the day, or heard of it from their fathers, when

Csesar the dictator was put to death. In that early

period of slavery, and in the first emotions of joy for

liberty in vain recovered, the blow for freedom seemed

a murder to some, and to others a glorious sacrifice.

But in the present juncture, when a prince worn out

with age, who had grown gray in power, and left a

long train of heirs, was to receive the last funeral ob­

sequies, at such a time to call forth the military, in or­

der to secure a quiet interment, was a vain parade, as

ridiculous as it was unnecessary.

IX. Augustus now became the subject of public dis­

cussion. Frivolous circumstances engaged the atten­

tion of the greater number. They observed that the

