166 [A. U.C. 774 THE ANNALS

served as many campaigns, his wife always remained

in Italy. " It was with good reason," he said, " that

" in former times, women were neither allowed to

" visit the allies of Rome, nor to have any intercourse

" with foreign nations. The softer sex brought many

" inconveniences : in times of peace they were prone

" to luxury, and .in war, easily alarmed. A female

"train, in the march of a Roman army, presented

" an image of savage manners: it had the appearance

" of barbariajjs going to battle.

" That women are by nature feeble, and soon over-

" come by hardship, was not the only objection: other

" qualities entered into the female character, such as

" pride, revenge, and cruelty, and ambition. The love

" of power is the predominant passion of the sex, and

" in the exercise of it they know no bounds. They

" appear in the ranks; they march with the troops;

" and they entice the centurions to their party. We

" have seen, in a late instance, a woman reviewing

" the cohorts, and directing the exercise of the le-

"gions. Have we forgot, that as often as rapacity

" and extortion have been laid to the account of the

" husband, the wife has proved the principal offender?

" She no sooner enters the province, than her party is

44 formed. The unprincipled attend to pay their ho-

" mage. She becomes a politician; she takes the lead

" in business, and gives a separate audience. The

" husband and the wife appear in public with their

"distinct train of attendants. Two tribunals are

" established, and the female edict, dicta ted by caprice

" and tyranny, is sure to be obeyed. By the Oppian

" and other laws, the wife was formerly restrained

"within due bounds: at present all decorum is laid

" aside; women give the law in families; they preside

"in the tribunals of justice, and aspire to be eom-

" manders in chief."

XXXIV. To this speech a small number assented;

the rest received it with a murmur of disapproba­

tion. The business, they said, was not in form be­

fore the fathers, and a question of that importance

ought not to be drawn into debate by a self-created

censor like Csecina. His argument was answered by

