A. D. 17.] 107 OF TACITUS.

cus more warmly to his interest. They considered

him, by the maternal line, of higher birth than Dru-

sus; Marc Antony was his grand-father, and Augus­

tus Csesar his great uncle. On the other hand, Pom-

ponius Atticus, the great grand-father of Drusus, hav­

ing never risen above the rank of a Roman knight,

seemed to tarnish the lustre of the Claudian line. The

merit of Agrippina weighed greatly in the scale. She

had brought to Germanicus a numerous offspring;

and her character, free from blemish, placed her in a

point of view superior to the younger Livia, the wifo

of Drusus. The two brothers, amidst the heat of con­

tending parties, lived in perfect harmony: their friends

were at variance, but the princes loved each other.

XLIV. Drusus was soon after sent to command the

army in Illyricum. In that school of military science

he might improve in the ert of war, and gain the af­

fections of the army. The camp, Tiberius thought,

would wean a young man from the dissolute man­

ners of the capital. He had still another motive: while

his two sons were at the head of the legions, he

might live in security, free from danger, and every

possible alarm. But the ostensible reason for the ex­

pedition of Drusus, was an application from the Sue-

vians, praying the assistance of Rome against the

Cheruscans, who had turned their disappointed rage

against their countrymen. The fact was, Germany

being at thai time evacuated by the Romans, the dif­

ferent nations of that country, no longer dreading a

foreign invasion, began, according to the genius of

barbarians, to quarrel among themselves. The pre­

sent difference was a struggle for power between two

rival states. The strength on each side was nearly

equal; the abilities of the chiefs much upon a balance;

but the name of king was detested by the Suevians,

and, by consequence, Maroboduus was unpopular.

On the opposite side, Arminius, the champion of li­

berty, was the idol of his country.

XLV. Arminius took the field at the head of a con­

siderable army. The Cheruscans, and a large body

of allies, accustomed to fight under him, followed his

standard. To these were added the Semnonss and

