A. D. 14.] OF TACITUS. 49

he seduced the affections of Julia, even in the lifetime

of her husband Agrippa. Nor did his passions stop

there: when she was afterwards married to Tiberius,

he was still a persevering adulterer, and by secret ar­

tifices poisoned the mind of the wife against her hus­

band. The letter to Augustus, in which she treated

the character of Tiberius with contempt, was general­

ly thought to be his composition. For these offences he

was banished toCercina,an island on the coast of Afri­

ca, where he passed fourteen years in exile. Soldiers

at length were sent to put an end to his days. The

assassins found him on the point of a prominent neck

of land, with a countenance fixed in sorrow and de­

spair. As soon as the ruffians approached, he desired

a short delay, that he might write the sentiments of a

dying man to his wife Alliaria. Having despatched

that business, he presented his neck to the murderers'

stroke: in his last moments worthy of the Sempro-

nian name. His life was a series of degenerate actions.

The assassins, according to some historians, were not

hired at Rome, but sent from Africa by the proconsul

Lucius Asprenas, at the instigation of Tiberius, who

hoped to throw from himself the load of guilt, and fix

it on his tools of power. The artifice did not suc­

ceed.

LIV. In the course of this year was formed a new

institution of religious rites. In honour of Augustus

a, list of priests was added to the sacerdotal college,

in imitation of the order founded in ancient times

by Titus Tatius, to perpetuate the religious ceremo­

nies of the Sabines. To create this new sodality, the

names of the most eminent citizens, to the number of

one-and-twenty, were drawn by lot; and Tiberiu?,

Drusus, Claudius, and Germanicus were added. It

happened, however, that the games performed this

year in honour of Augustus, were disturbed by vio­

lent factions among the players. In compliance with

the wishes of Mecenas, that passionate admirer of.

Bathyllus the comedian, Augustus had always fa­

voured the exhibition of pantomimes. He had himself

a taste for those amusements; and by mixing with the

diversions of the multitude, he thought he showed a

Vol. I.—E

