122 THE ANNALS [A. U. C. 772.

ruin of that unfortunate prince. Catualda, a young

man of rank, who was formerly compelled by the in­

justice of Maroboduus to fly his country, had taken '

refuge among the Gothones. The season of revenge |

was at length arrived. At the head of a strong force

he entered the territory of the Marcomanians. Hav-

ing seduced the leading nobles to his party he stormed

the royal palace, and took by assault a strong castle

nearly adjoining, where the Suevians had been ac­

customed to deposit their plunder. A considerable

booty fell into his hands. He found, besides, a num­

ber of victuallers and traders from the Roman pro­

vinces ; men who had been attracted to that part of

the world by the liberty allowed to commerce, and by

the love of lucre were induced to remain, till by force

of habit, they* lost all remembrance of their native

land.

LXIII. Maroboduus, finding himself deserted by

his people, had no resource but in the friendship of

Tiberius. He crossed the Danube, where that river

washes the confines of Noricum; and thence sent his

despatches to Rome, not in the humble style of a

prince driven from his throne, but, even in ruin, with

an elevation of mind worthy of his former grandeur.

The substance of his letter was, that the nations who

knew his fame in arms had made him offers of friend­

ship, but he chose rather to rely on the protection of

the Romans. Tiberius promised him a safe retreat

in Italy ; with liberty, if his affairs took a favourable

turn, to withdraw whenever his interest should invite

him. To the fathers he talked a different language:

Philip of Macedon, he said, was not so much to be

dreaded by the Athenians, nor Pyrrhus or Antio-

chus by the Roman people. His speech on this oc­

casion is still extant; we there find him magnifying

the fortitude of the German chief, and the ferocity of

the nations over which he reigned with absolute

power. He sets forth the danger of a powerful enemy

so near the Roman frontier, and applauds himself for

the wisdom of the measures that brought on the ruin

of a great and warlike prince. Maroboduus was re­

ceived at Ravenna: and there held up to the Suevians,

