A. D. 19.] 119 OF TACITUS.

and Agrippina, were of a ponderous size; while those

for Piso and the rest were of inferior value. Piqued

at the distinction, Piso exclaimed," This feast is made

" for the son of a Roman prince, not of a Parthian

" king." In the instant he threw the present made to

himself, with peevish contempt, on the ground, de­

claiming with bitterness against the growth of luxury.

Germanicus heard his rude invective, but still re­

mained master of himself.

LVIII. About this time arrived ambassadors from

Artabanus, king of the Parthians, with instructions

to mention, in terms of respect, the ancient alliance

between Rome and Parthia, and the desire of the mo­

narch to renew their former friendship. As an ear.

nest of respect for Germanicus, Artabanus was willing

to advance to an interview as far as the Euphrates ;

but he made it a condition, that Vonones should be

removed from Syria, where his residence in the

neighbourhood of Parthia, gave him an opportunity

to carry on secret negotiations with the nobles of the

realm, and in time to stir up a revolt. Germanicus

answered with condescension, yet with dignity. Of

the alliance between Rome and Parthia he spoke

with due regard, and the royal visit he considered as

an honour to himself. Vonones was removed to

Pornpeiopolis, on the coast of Cilicia, not so much to

comply with the demands of the Parthian king, as to

curb the insolence of Piso, then linked in ties of

friendship with the exiled prince, who had contrived,

by marks of respect and magnificent presents, to pur­

chase the favour of Plancina.

LIX. In the consulship of Marcus Silanus and Lu­

cius Norbanus, Germanicus made a progress into

Egypt, to view the monuments of antiquity, so much

celebrated in that country. For this journey the

good of the province was his pretext. In fact, by

opening the public granaries, he reduced the price of

corn; and by pursuing popular measures, he gained

the good-will of the inhabitants. He appeared in

public without a guard; his feet uncovered, after the

Greek fashion; and the rest of his apparel was also

Greek. In these particulars he took for his model

