A L'

tan us, proconsul of Asia, was accused of rapine and

extortion by the people of the province. The conduct

of the cause was undertaken by Mamercus Scaurus,

of consular rank ; by Junius Otho, at that time prav

tor; and Brutidius Niger, one of the sediles. The

complaint was aggravated by an additional charge of

irreverence to the divinity of Augustus, and disaffec­

tion to Tiberius. Mamercus affected to grace himself

by citing the bright examples of a former day; Scipio

Africanus, he observed, prosecuted Lucius Cotta;

Cato, the censor, appeared against Servius Galba,

an,d Marcus Scaurus, against Publius Rutilius; as if

those great and excellent men had instituted prosecu­

tions for constructive crimes like the present; as if

Scaurus, the grandfather of the prosecutor, had de­

scended to so vile an office. It was reserved for Ma­

mercus, to degenerate into an informer, and tarnish

the lustre of his ancestors. Junius Otho, another pro­

secutor, had been by profession the teaches of a school.

Raised from that obscurity by the patronage of Seja-

nus, he obtained a seat in the senate, and hoped by

flagitious deeds to efface the meanness of his origin.

Brutidius was a different character. Adorned with

liberal accomplishments, and formed for great things,

he was sure of reaching the first honours of the state,

had he been willing to walk in the paths of virtue.

His impatience ruined him. Eager to outstrip his

equals, and then to rise over his superiors, he enlarged

his views: and began to soar above his most flattering

hopes: but his ambition led him to the precipice from

which good men have often fallen, when, not content

with slow, but sure success, they have hurried on with

too much ardour, and ended their career in ruin.

LXVII. Gellius Poplicola, who had been qurastor

to Silanus, and Marcus Paconius, his lieutenant, listed

on the side of the prosecution. Silanus, beyond all

doubt, was guilty both of rapine and oppression ; but

in his case a number of circumstances, dangerous

even to innocence, conspired against him. Besides

the persons already mentioned, the most able orators

of Asia, men who were chosen on account of their

eloquence, united their strength. Against that pow­

