158 [A. U. C. 773. THE ANNALS

were thinned by repeated misfortunes. The Calpur-

nian house had lately suffered by the loss of Piso, and

the jEmilian was impaired by the condemnation of

Lepida. In order to' make some amends, Decius Sila-

nus was restored to the Juniau family. The particu­

lars of his case seem to merit some attention. The

life of Augustus was variously chequered : he was suc­

cessful against his country, and m his family often

unhappy. The mtrigues of his daughter and grand­

daughter embittered his days. He ordered them both

to depart from Rome,and punished the adulterers with

death or banishment. To the commerce natural be­

tween the sexes, that emperor gave the naipe of sacri­

lege and violated majesty ; and, under colour of this

new device, forgot at once the lenity of former times,

and even the laws enacted by himself. But the tragic

issue that befel offenders of this kind, with other me­

morable events of that period, shall be the subject of

a distinct history, if, when the work now on hand is

finished, my life shall be protracted in health and vi­

gour for a new undertaking.

With regard to Silanus, who had a criminal con­

nexion willi the grand-daughter of Augustus; his of­

fence drew upon him no greater vengeance than a total

exclusion from the friendship of the emperor. That

exclusion, as Silanus understood it, implied a sentence

of banishment. He retired into voluntary exile, and

never, till the reign of Tiberius, presumed to apply,

either to the prince or senate, for permission to return

to his country. For Jhe favour extended to him; he

was indebted to the weight and influence of his bro­

ther, Marcus Silanus, who added to his high rank the

fame of distinguished eloquence. Marcus prevailed

with the emperor, and in a full meeting of the senate,

expressed his sense of the obligation. Tiberius an­

swered, that " the return of Decius Silanus, after a

" long absence, was an event agreeable to all. It was,

" however, no more than his legal right. No law had

" abridged his liberty; no decree of the senate was in

" force against him. And yet it was impossible for the

" prince to forget the wrongs done to Augustus; nor

" could the return of Silanus either efface his crime, or

