A. D. 15.] 53 OF TACITUS.

" thought the interests of Germany and Rome were

" interwoven with each other; I have been your friend,

"because I preferred peace to war. Governed by

"these principles, I addressed myself to Varus, who

" commanded your armies ; before his tribunal, I ex­

hibited an accusation against Arminius, the ravisher

" of my daughter, and the violator of public treaties.

" But sloth and irresolution were the bane of that un-

" fortunate general. From laws enfeebled and relaxed

" I expected no relief. I therefore desired, earnestly

■ desired, that Arminius, and the other chiefs of the

" conspiracy, might be thrown into irons. I did not

* except myself. With what zeal I pressed the mea-  
" sure, witness that fatal night, which I wish had been

" my last. The horrors that followed, demand our

"tears: they cannot be justified. Soon after that

"tragic event, I confined Arminius in chains; and

"from his faction I have suffered in my turn, the

" same indignity. Admitted now to an interview with

" Germanicus, I prefer ancient friendship to new con­

nexions; my voice is still for peace. For myself, I

" have nothing in view: my honour is dear to me,

"and I desire to repel all suspicion of perfidy. I

" would, if possible, make terms for my countrymen,

"if the}'can be induced to prefer a well-timed repen-

" tance to calamity and ruin. For my son, and the

"errors of his youth, I am a humble suppliant. My

" daughter, indeed, appears before you, by necessity,

"not by her own choice: I acknowledge it. It is

"yours to decide her fate; it is yours to judge which

"ought to have most influence, her husband or her

"father: she is with child by Arminius, and she sprung

" from me." Germanicus, in his usual style of mo­

deration, assured him that his children and relations

nhould be protected; as to himself, he might depend

upon a safe retreat in one of the old provinces. He

then marched back to the Rhine; and there, by the

direction of Tiberius, was honoured with the title of

Imperator. The wife of Arminius was delivered of

a boy, who was reared and educated at Ravenna.

The disasters which made him afterwards the sport,

of fortune, shall bo related in their proper place.

E 2

