86 [A.U.C. 769. THE ANNALS

country, and the wretched condition to which they

were reduced, were all as nothing compared to this

insulting memorial. Preparing but a little before to

abandon their habitations, and seek new settlements

beyond the Elbe, they changed their minds, and once

more resolved to try the hazard of a battle. The no­

bles and the populace, the old and the young, all

ranks and classes of men appeared in arms. They

pursued the Romans on their march; they harassed

the rear, and often throw them into disorder. Re­

solved at length to risk a battle, they chose for that

purpose a narrow and swampy plain, inclosed on one

side by a river, and on the other by a thick wood, at

the back of which lay a deep morass. A rampart,

formerly thrown up by the Angrivarians, as a bar­

rier between themselves and the Cheruscans, inclosed

one side of the fen. On this spot the barbarians sta­

tioned their infantry. Their cavalry lay in ambush

in the woods, with intent, as soon as the Romans ad­

vanced, to attack them by surprise, and cut off the

rear of the army.

XX. Germanicus had intelligence of all that pass­

ed. Their stations, their councils of war, their public

debates, their secret resolutions were all discovered;

and their own devices were turned against themselves.

The command of the horse was given to Seius Tu-

bero, with orders to form on the open plain. The in­

fantry was so disposed that by an easy pass one divi­

sion might penetrate into the woods, while the other

carried the rampart by assault. Whatever was diffi­

cult or arduous the general reserved for himself,

leaving all slighter operations to his officers. On the

level plain the cavalry bore down all before them;

but the rampart was not easily taken. The soldiers

who advanced to the attack were as much exposed to

the darts of the enemy, as if they had been before

the, walls of a regular fortification. Germanicus saw

the disadvantage. Ho drew off the legions; and or­

dered the engineers and slingers to play upon the

works, in order to drive the barbarians from their

post. A volley of darts was discharged from the bat­

tering machines with such incessant fury, that the

