A. D. 16.] 99 OF TACITUS.

" for the presence of the emperor." Tiberius heard

all that passed, but remained silent. A warm debate

ensued. At length the fathers agreed to adjourn all

business till the prince returned to Rome.

XXXVI. Upon another occasion the same Asinius

Gallus had the spirit to clash even with the emperor.

He moved, in form, that the election of civil magi­

strates should take place at the end of five years; that

the officers who had the command of a legion, and

discharged that duty before they attained the prsetor-

ship, should be declared prsetors elect, without preju­

dice to the right of the sovereign to name twelve can­

didates. This motion, beyond all doubt, had a deeper

aim, pointing directly at the policy of the times, and

the secret maxims of the court. Tiberius affected to

see a design to enlarge the sovereign authority; and,

on that ground, replied, " that it was inconsistent with

" his moderation to take upon him so vast a charge.

" The power to choose was a power to exclude; and

" the last was painful. The elections, even when an-

" nual, were attended with many inconveniencies. The

" disappointed candidate was sure to repine at his

" want of success, and yet his disgrace was but of

" short duration: he consoled himself with hopes of bet-

" ter success in the following year. Defer the election

" for five years, and the man rejected for that length

" of time will find his spirit more deeply wounded.

" Moreover, at the end of so long a period, who can

" answer that his character, his family connexions,

" and his fortune, will be the same? To grow proud

" in office is the nature of man: extend his authority

4i to the space of five years, and what will be the con­

sequence? Every single magistrate will swell with

" the pride of five. The laws, which have wisely

" drawn the line, will be subverted; whereas, at

" present, the time for soliciting, as well as that of

" enjoying*public honours, is fixed with precision."

with a republican spirit, Tiberius strengthened the

interests of despotism. His next measure was a grant

of money to certain senators, whose fortunes were in­

ferior to their rank. Nothing, however, in tho midst

