60 [A. U. £. 768. THE ANNALS

which had been stationed in the wings, through, fear,

or a spirit of mutiny, abandoned their post, and seized

a piece of solid ground beyond the morass. Arminius,

though the opportunity was fair, did not embrace it:

but soon after, seeing the baggage fast in the mud, or

m the ditches, the soldiers gathering round in tumult

and disorder; the eagles in confusion; and as in such

cases always happens, each man acting for himself,

and deaf to the command of his officers; he ordered

his men to make a vigorous onset, exclaiming, as he

advanced, " Behold Varus and his legions! their fate

" once more has given them to our swords."

He charged at the head of a chosen band; and, by

gashing and mangling the horses, made a dreadful

havoc. Goaded by wounds, and not able to keep their

legs on a slimy soil, which was made still more slip­

pery by the effusion of their own blood, those animals

in their fury threw their riders, overturned all in their

way, and trampled under their feet the wretches that

lay on the ground. The chief distress was round the

eagles; to support them under a heavy volley of darts

was difficult, and to fix them in the swampy ground

impossible. Cecina, exerting himself with undaunted

vigour to sustain the ranks, had his horse killed under

him. The barbarians were ready to surround him,

if the first legion had not come up to his assistance.

At length the rage for plunder, natural to savages,

turned the fortune of the day. Intent on booty, the

Germans desisted from the fight. The Romans seized

their advantage, and towards the close of day gained

a station on the solid ground. Their distress, how­

ever, was not al an end: intrenchments were to be

raised; earth to be brought; their tools for digging

and cutting the soil were lost; no tents for the sol­

diers ; no medicine for the wounded: their provisions

in a vile condition, deformed with filth and blood; a

night big with horror hung over their heads; and the

ensuing day, to a number of brave and gallant men,

might prove the last. Thejspirit of the legions sunk,

and all lamented their condition.™

LXVI. It happened, in the course of the night, that

a horse broke loose; and, scared by the noise of the

