A. D. 14.] OF TACITUS. 23

duty, expecting from others what he had practised

himself.

XXI. The return of this tumultuous body renewed s

the troubles of the camp. The soldiers, without con­

trol, issued out of the lines and pillaged the country

round. Some, more heavily loaded with booty than

their comrades, were apprehended by the orders of

Blesus; and after receiving due. correction, thrown

.4o prison, as an example to the rest. The authority

the general was still in force with the centurions,

Lnd such of the common men as retained a sense of

their duty. The delinquents, however, refused to sub­

mit ; they were dragged along, resisting with all their

strength; they clasped the knees of the multitude

round them; they called upon their fellow soldiers by

name; they implored the protection of the company

to which they belonged; they invoked the cohorts and

the legions, crying out to all, that the same lot would

shortly be their portion. Against their general they

omitted nothing that calumny could suggest; they

appealed to heaven; they implored the gods; they

tried, by every topic, to excite compassion, to inflame

resentment, to awaken terror, and rouse the men to

acts of violence. A general insurrection followed: the

soldiers in a body rushed to the prison, burst the

gates, unchained the prisoners, and associated with

themselves the vilest of the army, a band of deserters,

and a desperate crew of malefactors, then under con­

demnation for the enormity of their crimes.

XXII. The flame of discord raged with redoubled

fury. New leaders joined the mutiny. Amidst the

crowd, one of the common soldiers, a fellow known

by the name of Vibulenus, mounted on the shoulders

of his comrades before the tribunal of Blesus, and

addressed the multitude, all wild with fury, and eager

to hear the language of sedition. " My friends," said

he," you have bravely interposed to save the lives

" of these innocent, these much injured men. You

" have restored them to new life. But who will re-

" store my brother ? who will give him to my arms ?

" Sent hither from the German army, in concert with

"you to settle measures for our common safety, he

