A. D. 14.] OF TACITUS. 17

to their charge by Tiberius. In the course of their

debate, Quintus Haterius and Mamercus Scaurus had

the misfortune to alarm that gloomy and suspicious

temper: the first, by asking. "How long is it your

" pleasure, Csesar, that the commonwealth shall want

"ahead to direct it?" Scaurus, by saying, "Since

" the prince has not interposed the tribunitian au-

" thority to prevent the report of the consuls, there is

" room to hope that he will yield to the entreaties of

" the senate." Tiberius took fire at what was said

by Haterius, and broke out with sudden vehemence :

to Scaurus he made no reply; resentment had taken

root in his heart, and for that reason was smothered

in silence.

Fatigued at length by the clamours of the senate,

and the solicitation of individuals, ho gave way by

degrees: not expressly declaring his consent; but, as

he said, to end the mutual trouble of repeated refusals

and unwearied importunity. It may be related as a

\ fact, that Haterius, on the following day, attending

at the palace, to mitigate resentment by an apology,

narrowly escaped being put to death by the guards.

In a suppliant posture he clasped the emperor's knees;

and in that moment Tiberius, entangled perhaps by

the petitioner, or making a false step, fell to the

ground. This provoked the soldiers upon duty.

Haterius was saved from their fury: but the danger

that threatened a man of his illustrious character,

made no impression on the prince; nor did he relent

till Livia exerted all her power and influence. Tibe足

rius yielded at length to the solicitations of his mo足

ther.

XIV. The senate,.at their next meeting, began to

offer the incense of adulation to Livia. It was pro足

posed to confer upon her the title of Parent; that

name was thought too general; the more distinctive

appellation of Mother of her Country was moved

as an amendment. It was further proposed, with the

general concurrence, that to the name of the Emperor

should be added, The Son of Julia. Tiberius op足

posed these several motions; honours, he said, ought

not to be lavished on women; in what regarded his

B2

