A. D. 19.} OF TACITUS. 127

source of dissension. He condemned the conduct of

Piso; and in return met with nothing but contumacy,

and a spirit of opposition to all his measures. Piso

was at length determined to evacuate Syria: hearing,

however, that Germanicus was attacked by a sud­

den illness, he changed his resolution. He had soon

after the mortification of learning that the disorder

was abated. At Antioch the news diffused a general

joy. The people of that place had offered vows for

the recovery of the prince: and, having obtained the

object of their wishes, began by solemn rites to dis­

charge the obligations which they had imposed upon

themselves. Enraged at this proceeding, Piso inter­

rupted the ceremonies; by his lictors he drove the

victims from the altars; he spread terror and con­

fusion through the temples, and dispersed the con­

gregation. After this exploit he withdrew to Seleu-

cia. At that place, having advice that Germanicus

was relapsed, he resolved to make some stay, in ex­

pectation of the event. The prince suspected that

poison had been secretly conveyed by Piso, and that

idea added to the malignity of his disorder.

A discovery was made of a singular nature. Un­

der the floor, and in the cavities of the walls, a col­

lection of human bones was found, with charms, and

magic verses, and incantations. The name of Ger­

manicus was graved on plates of lead; fragments of

human bodies, not quite consumed to ashes, were

discovered in a putrid condition; with a variety of

those magic spells, which, according to the vulgar

opinion, are of potency to devote the souls of the

living to the infernal gods. Amidst the confusion oc­

casioned by these extraordinary circumstances, mes­

sengers were sent by Piso to inquire after the health

of Germanicus; but those men were considered as

spies, who came to watch for intelligence.

LXX. Germanicus was informed of all that passed.

Fear and indignation took possession of him by turns.

" If my doors," he said, " are to be besieged by my

" enemies; if interlopers are to see me at the pomt of

4' expiration, what is the prospect that my wife has

" before her ? and what are my children to expect?

