A. D. 19.] 129 op ' r ;

"yours to show your friendship, not by unavailing

" tears, but by executing my last commands. In that

" consists the noblest duty, the best tribute to the me-

" mory of the dead. Even strangers who never saw

"me will be touched with sympathy; and you, my

" friends, if I was ever dear to you, if you followed

" my person, and not my fortune, you will revenge

"my fall. Show to the Roman people my afflicted

" wife, the grand-daughter of Augustus: show my

"children, my six unhappy orphans. Compassion

" will be on the side of the prosecutors; and should

"my enemies attempt to screen themselves by plead-

" ing secret orders, mankind will either not believe

"them, or believing, will not forgive them." The

friends of the dying prince clasped his hands, and

bound themselves by a solemn oath to revenge his

death, or perish in the attempt.

LXXII. Germanicus turning to his wife, and fix­

ing his eyes upon her, earnestly conjured her by the

memory of her husband, and by their mutual chil­

dren, to abate from the pride and fierceness of her

' disposition. To bend to the stroke of adversity, and

at her return to Rome not to provoke by vain com­

petition the resentment of enemies too high in power,

was all that was now left.—Thus far with an audible

voice: he then whispered a secret caution, which was

supposed to point at the malignity of Tiberius. In a

short time after he breathed his last. The provinces

lamented their loss; he was honoured by kings, and

regretted by the neighbouring nations: such was his

equal behaviour to the allies of Rome, and such the

humanity that endeared him even to the enemy.

Graceful in his person, he charmed by his affability;

beloved, when heard; admired, when only seen; and,

in the highest elevation, great without arrogance, he

maintained the dignity of his rank, yet never gave

envy reason to repine at his success.

LXXIII. The funeral was plain and simple, with­

out pomp or pageantry. No images were carried in

the procession. Fond remembrance, and the praises

due to virtue, were the best decorations. Between

him and Alexander men formed a parallel: his time of

