A.D. 16.] 93 OF TACITUS.

denee of Tiberius, he had beforehand disclosed the

nature of his business. The emperor refused to grant

an interview, and yet encouraged the informer, wil­

ling through the same channel to receive further in­

telligence. Libo in the mean time was raised to the

dignity of prsefor. He was a frequent guest at the

imperial table. In those convivial moments, Tiberius

never betrayed a symptom of suspicion. With gentle

expressions, and looks of kindness, that master of

dissimulation knew how to hide the malice of his

heart. The follies of Libo's conduct might have been

checked in the beginning; but Tiberius chose to col­

lect materials for a future day. It happened at last

that one Junius, who pretended to raise the dead by

magic incantations, was appointed, at the request of

Libo, to exhibit the wonders of his art. This man

hastened with the secret to Fulcinius Trio, at that

time a noted informer, who possessed dangerous ta­

lents, and by any arts, however pernicious, wished to

raiso himself into public notice. Libo was cited to

appear. Trio applied to the consuls for a solemn

hearing before the senate. The fathers were convened

to deliberate, as the summons informed them, on

matters of moment, and a charge of the blackest na­

ture.

XXIX. Libo changed his dress. In a mourning

garb he went from house to house, attended by a fe­

male train of the first distinction. He importuned his

friends, and among them hoped to find some one

willing to undertake his defence. His application was

without effect. His friends deserted him, with differ­

ent excuses; but all from the common motive of fear.

On the day of trial, sinking under his distress, and

faint with real or pretended illness, he was carried in

a litter to the senate-house. He entered the court,

supported by his brother. At the sight of the empe­

ror, he stretched forth his hands in the manner of a

supplicant, and in a pathetic tone endeavoured to

conciliate favour. Tiberius viewed him with,a rigid

and inflexible countenance. He then proceeded to

open the charge, stating the particulars, and the names

