A. D. 14] 43 oP TACITUS.

auxiliary forces to Bail down the Rhine, in order, if

the mutiny still subsisted, to crush it at once by force

of arms.

XLVI. At Rome, in the mean time, where the

issue of the commotions in Illyricum was yet unknown,

advice was received of the disorders that broke out

in Germany. The city was thrown into consterna­

tion. All exclaimed against the conduct of Tiberius.

" To amuse the senate and the people, both helpless,

" void of spirit, and disarmed, was the sole drift of

" the emperor. The flame of discord was in the mean

"time kindled up by the distant armies; and two

"young men who had neither experience, nor sufli-

" cient authority, were sent in vain to quell the insur-

'.' rection. Why did not Tiberius set out in person

"upon the first alarm? The occasion called for his

" presence. At sight of him, who had gained renown

" in war, and was moreover the fountain of rewards

" and punishments, the malcontents would have laid

" down their arms. Augustus, though in the decline

"of life, could make a progress into Germany; and

" shall Tiberius, in the vigour of his days, content

" himself with the vain parade of attending the senate,

" there to amuse himself with petty disputes, to cavil

" about words, and wrangle with the fathers? Enough

" was done at Rome to establish his system of slavery,

" and despotic power. Measures should now be taken

" to curb the spirit of the legions, and teach them to

" endure the leisure of repose."

XLVII. Tiberius heard the murmurs of discontent,

but remained inflexible. To keep possession of the

capital, and neither hazard his own safety, nor that

of the empire, was his fixed resolution. A crowd of

reflections filled him with anxiety. The German army

was superior in strength; that in Pannonia was the

nearest: the former had great resources in Gaul, and

Italy lay open to the latter. To which should he give

the preference ? If he visited one, the other might

take umbrage. By sending his sons, he held the ba­

lance even, and neither could be jealous. It was be­

sides his maxim, that the imperial dignity should not

