A. D. 20.] ' 155 OF TACITUS.

lages, and went off enriched with plunder. At length,

at a place near the river Pagida, he hemmed in a Ro­

man cohort, and held them closely besieged. Decrius,

a gallant and experienced officer, who commanded the

fort, considered the blockade as a disgrace to the

Roman arms. Having exhorted his men to face the

enemy on the open plain, he marched out, and formed

in order of battle. At the first onset the barbarians

made an impression. The cohort gave way. Decrius

braved every danger Amidst a volley of darts, he

opposed his person to ,Up the flight of his men; he

called aloud to tiio siar.':ird-bearers, charging them

not to incur the s. i,r , 1 infamy of yielding to an

undisciplined rabb .( , ie collection of runaways

and deserters. Hi were ineffectual. Covered

with wounds, and , ,, ,v. pierced through, he still

persisted with und.'.n , ' valour, till at last, aban­

doned by his troops r bravely sword, in hand.

XXI. Lucius Apr nm ,,\ ho had succeeded Camil-

lus as proconsul ol Vi,received the account of

this defeat with indignation. The disgrace of the

Roman arms touched him more than the glory that

accrued to the barbarians. He resolved to expiate

the infamy by a dreadful punishment, founded, in­

deed, upon ancient precedent, and recorded m history ;

but in modern times fallen into disuse. He ordered

the cohort, whose behaviour had been so ignominious,

to be deoimated : every man upon whom the lot fell,

died under repeated blows of the cudgel. The conse­

quence of this severity was, that a body of five hun­

dred veterans, stationed in garrison at Thala, main­

tained their post against the attempts of Tacfarinas,

and even routed the troops lately flushed with vic­

tory. In this action, Rufus Helvius, a common sol­

dier, obtained the glory of saving the life of a Roman

citizen. He was rewarded by Apronius with a spear

and collar. Tiberius ordered the civic crown to be

added, observing, at the same time, that the proconsul

had the power of granting that reward : yet he cen­

sured the omission without asperity, pleased that

something was reserved for himself.

Tacfarinas, finding his Numidians unwilling, after

