nnals [A. U. C.773.

in a litter, guarded by a tribune of the prsetoriaji

bands: but whether that officer was sent to protect

him from the populace, or to see justice executed, was

left to conjecture and vague reports.

XV. Plancina, no less than her husband, was an

object of public detestation; but protected by court

favour, she was thought to be out of the reach of her

enemies. What Tiberius would do was uncertain.

While she supposed herself involved in the fate of

Piso, without a gleam of better hope, her language

was that of a woman willing to share all chances with

her husband, and, if he was doomed to fall, deter­

mined to perish with him. Having in the mean time,

by the interest of Livia, obtained her pardon, she be­

gan to change her tone, and pursue a separate interest.

Finding himself thus abandoned, Piso despaired of his

cause. Without further struggle, he intended to re­

sign himself to his fate; but, by the advice of his

sons, he resumed his courage, and once more appear­

ed before the senate. The prosecution was renewed

with vigour; the fathers spoke in terms of acrimony;

every thing was adverse; and the prisoner plainly saw

that his fate was decided. In this distress nothing af­

fected him so deeply as the behaviour of Tiberius, who

sat in sullen silence, neither proVoked to anger, nor

softened by compassion, with his usual art stifling

every emotion of the heart. Piso was conducted back

to his house. He there wrote a few lines, in appear­

ance preparing his defence for the ensuing day, and

having sealed the paper, delivered it to one of his

freedmen. The usual attentions to his person filled

up his time, till, at a late hour of the night, his wife

having left the room, he ordered the door to be made

fast. In the morning he was found dead; his throat

cut, and his sword lying near him on the ground.

XVI. I remember to have heard from men advanced

in years, that a bundle of papers, not produced at the

trial, was often seen in the hands of Piso, containing,

as his friends attested, the letters of Tiberius, full of

instructions hostile to Germanicus. These docu­

ments would have transferred the guilt to the empe­

ror; but by the delusive promises of Sejanus, they

