A. D.1G.] 89 op TAcrrrs

the vessels was the only expedient left : and acord-

ingly horses, beasts of burden, arms, and baggage,

were thrown overboard.

XXIV. The storms in other seas are inconsider­

able, when compared to the fury of a northern tem­

pest. The ocean in those parts is more boisterous

than in any other of the known world, and the rigour

of Germany surpasses that of any other climate.

The danger of the fleet was, by consequence, more

alarming; the magnitude, as well as the novelty of

the mischief, exceeding any former voyage, under­

taken by the Romans. No friendly shore at hand;

every coast in the possession of savage enemies; the

sea of a depth incredible; vast in circumference, and,

according to the received opinion, without any nation

towards the north, or any continent to fix its boun­

dary. A number of ships went to the bottom; many

were wrecked on distant islands, secluded from the

commerce of man. The soldiers who were cast on

shore, perished by famine, or prolonged a wretched

existence by feeding on the carcases of horses thrown

, up by the sea.

The vessel in which Germanicus sailed, was driven

far from the fleet, to the coast inhabited by the Chau- ,

cians. There the disconsolate prince passed whole

days and nights among pointed rocks, wandering on

the prominent beach, his eyes fixed on the brawling

deep, and. his heart imputing to himself the whole

calamity. It was with difficulty that his friends re­

strained him from burying himself in the same waves

that swallowed up so many gallant soldiers. At

length the storm abated. The wind and the tide;

serving at once, some of the ships were seen making

to the,land, all in a shattered condition, few oars re­

maining, and the clothes of the men stretched out

for sails. The crippled veseels were drawn in tow

by such as were less disabled: Germanicus refitted

the fleet with all possible expedition: and, as soon as

might be, ordered some of the ships to coast along the

islands, in search of the soldiers who had been cast

away. By this diligence many were restored to their

friends. The Angrivarians, lately reduced to suh-

H2

