A. D.21.] OP TACITUS. 169

before the fathers. A licentious spirit of defamation

prevailed at Rome, and reigned without control.

The vile and profligate launched out with virulence

against the best members of society, and the statues

of the Csesars were a sanctuary, where the assassins

of every honest name found protection. The freed-

men, and even the slaves, poured out a torrent of

abuse; and, after lifting their hands against their pa­

trons or their masters, resorted to the same asylum,

where they grew more formidable in their insolence.

Caius Cestius, a member of the senate, complained

of this enormity: " Princes," he said, " represented the

" gods; but the gods lent a favourable ear to none

"but the just. Neither the capitol nor the temples

" were places of refuge, where guilt might find a shel-

" ter, and even encouragement. In a late prosecution

" Annia Rufilla was found guilty of manifest fraud;

" and if such a woman might with impunity, in the

"forum, and even in the portal of the senate, insult'

" him with opprobrious language, 'and even with

" menaces; if such contumacy were permitted, and

" the emperor's statue gave a sanction to evil prac-

" tices, insomuch that he could obtain no redress, all

" good order was at an end, and the laws were no

"better than a dead letter." Others spoke to the

same effect. Facts still more atrocious were stated,

and, with one voice, the whole assembly called on

Drusus for exemplary punishment. Rufilla was

cited to appear; and, being convicted, the fathers or­

dered her to be imprisoned in the common jail.

XXXVII. Confidius jEquus and Cselius Cursor,

two Roman knights, who had preferred a false charge

of violated majesty against Magius Csecilianus, then

one of the prsetors, were for that offence condemned,

a.t the desire of Tiberius. From this act of justice,

as well as the sentence against Rufilla, Drusus de­

rived no small share of popularity. Men Were willing

to allow that, by residing at Rome, and by mixing in

social meetings, he made some atonement for the dark

and sullen spirit of his father. The luxurious passions

of a young man were easily excused: Let him, said

Vol. I—P

