4 THE ANNALS

r

tion through the reigns of Tiberius, and his three

immediate successors, free from animosity and partial

affection, with the candour of a man who has no mo­

tives, either of love or hatred, to warp his integrity.

II. The fate of Brutus and Cassius being decided.

the commonwealth had no longer an army engaged

in the cause of public liberty. The younger Pompey

received a total overthrow on the coast of Sicily;

Lepidus was deprived of his legions; and Marc An­

tony fell on his own sword. In that situation the

partisans of Julius Csesar had no leader but Octavius,

who laid aside the invidious title of Triumvir, con­

tent with the more popular name of Consul, and with

the tribunitian power, which he professed to assume

for the protection of the people. In a little time, when

he had allured to his interest the soldiery, by a pro­

fusion of largesses, the people by distribution of corn,

and the minds of men in general by the sweets of

peace, his views grew more aspiring. By degrees,

and almost imperceptibly, he drew into his own hands

the authority of the senate, the functions of the ma­

gistrates, and the administration of the laws. To

these encroachments no opposition was made. The

true republicans had perished either in the field of

battle, or by the rigour of proscriptions: of the re­

maining nobility, the leading men were raised to.

wealth and honours, in proportion to the alacrity with

which they courted the yoke; and all who in the dis­

traction of the times had risen to affluence, preferred

immediate ease and safety to the danger of contend­

ing for ancient freedom. The provinces acquiesced

under the new establishment, weary of the mixed au­

thority of the senate and people ; a mode of govern­

ment long distracted by contentions among the great,

and in the end rendered intolerable by the avarice of

public magistrates; while the laws afforded a feeble

remedy, disturbed by violence, defeated by intrigue,

and undermined by bribery and corruption.

III. In this state of affairs, Augustus selected Clau­

dius Marcellus and Marcus Agrippa, to prop and

strengthen his administration. The former, who was

u:- t- i - 4u J 4rt *V'

