82 [A.U.C. 769. THE ANNALS

up to the intrenchments, and, in the name of Armi-

nius, proclaimed aloud a promise of wives and lands

to every deserter, besides a hundred sesterces for his

daily pay, during the continuance of the war. This

was felt as an affront: the soldiers cried out with in­

dignation, " The dawn of day shall see us in the

" field: let Arminius risk a battle: the lands of his

" countrymen shall be ours by conquest, and their

" wives shall be carried off in captivity. The offer is

" an omcu of victory. The wealth and the women of

" Germany shall be the reward of valour." At the

third watch, the enemy advanced to the intrench­

ments; but perceiving the works properly guarded,

the cohorts under arms, and all intent on duty, they

retreated, without so much as throwing a single dart.

XIV. Germanicus retired to rest, and in his sleep

was favoured with a joyful vision. Being employed,

as he imagined, at a sacrifice, and. the blood of the

victim happening to stain his pontifical garment, his

grand-mother Livia made him a present of another

robe, no less beautiful than magnificent. Pleased with

this prognostic, which the auspices confirmed, he

called an assembly of the soldiers, and, in a speech,

acquainted them with his plan for the ensuing battle.

The open plain, he observed, was not the only spot

where the Romans could engage with advantage.

Woods and forests were equally favourable. The

unwieldy buckler of the Germans, and that enormous

length of spear, which, amidst surrounding trees and

interwoven thickets, was scarcely manageable, could

not be compared to the Roman sword, the javelin,

and their defensive armour, so well adapted to the

shape and motions of the body. " Redouble your

" blows," he said," and strike at the face of the enemy.

" They have neither helmets, nor breast-plates. Their

"shields are neither riveted with iron, nor covered

" with hides; they are nothing but ozier twigs inter-

" twined, or slight boards, daubed over with glaring

" colours. In the foremost ranks a few are provided

" with pikes and javelins; in the rest of their army

" you see nothing but stakes hardened in the fire, or

" weapons too short for execution. The aspect of

