162 [A.U.C.773 THE ANNALS

plained; ensnaring subtleties were removed; and

the evil, though not wholly cured, was palliated for

the present.

XXIX. About this time Nero, the eldest son of

Germanicus, was entering on the state of manhood.

Tiberius recommended him to the favour of the

senate, adding his request, that the young prince

might be excused from serving the office of the vi-

gintivirate, with leave, five years earlier than the

time limited by law, to stand candidate for the ques-

torship. As a precedent for this indulgence he cited

the example of Augustus, who had made the like ap­

plication for himself and his brother Drusus. The

proposal was a mockery, and, accordingly, men heard

it with derision. Even in the reign of Augustus,

there were in all probability, numbers who laughed,

in secret, at the new way of commanding by petition.

The artifice, however, was at that time not impolitic r

the grandeur of the Ctcsars was in its infancy, and

the forms of the old republic were still remembered.

With regard to the request made by Tiberius, it may

he observed, that the relation between the step-father

and the sons of his wife did not create so tender ark

interest, as the natural affection of a grand-father for

his grand-son. The senate not only granted what

was asked, but added a seat in the pontifical college.

The day, on which the young prince made his first

appearance in the forum, was distinguished by a

largess to the people, who saw with pleasure a son

of Germanicus rising to the estate of manhood. His

marriage with Julia, the daughter of Drusus, was

soon after celebrated, and diffused a general satisfac­

tion. But another match, then in contemplation, be­

tween the son of Claudius and a daughter of Seja-

nus, was received by the people with every mark of

discontent. Men objected, that the lustre of the im­

perial family would be tarnished, and the ambition

of Sejanus, already suspected, would, when strength­

ened by that connexion, tower above the rank of a

citizen.

XXX. Towards the close of the year died two

men of distinguished character, namely, Lucius Vo­

