78 THE ANNALS [A.U. C. 769.

place, than the enemy raised the siege, and,consulted

their safety by flight. It was found, however, that

they had levelled to the ground the monument erect­

ed the year before to Varus and his legions, and like­

wise an ancient altar dedicated to Drusus. The

prince rebuilt the altar; and joined with the legions

in equestrian games, performed a funeral ceremony

in honour of his father. He did not judge it advisa­

ble to restore the tomb, which had been erected to

Varus and the legions; but, with a chain of fortified

posts, he secured the whole country between Fort

Aliso and the Rhine.

,VIII. The fleet assembled at the place appointed.

Germanicus ordered the military stores to bo sent on

board; and, having completed the embarkation of

the legions and the allies, sailed through the canal

called the canal of Drusus, invoking his father to

assist the enterprise, and by the memory of his ex­

ample to guide and animate his son, now pursuing the

same track of glory. The fleet proceeded over the

lakes; and, entering the German Ocean, stretched

away as far as the river Amisia. There, at a place

of the same name on the left hand shore, he landed

his men, leaving his ships safe at their moorings.

This measure was ill concerted. The debarkation

should have been made higher up the country, and

on the opposite bank, where the enemy had taken

post. The mistake made it necessary to throw bridges

over the river, and in that business several days were

consumed. At low water the cavalry and the legions

forded over the lestuary without difficulty; but the

rear, consisting of the auxiliary forces, was over­

thrown by the return of the tide, and thrown into

disorder. The Batavians, in particular, eager to

show their dexterity in swimming, continued sporting

in the waves till the rapidity of, the current over­

whelmed them. Some lost their lives. Germanicus

pitched his camp. While he was employed in mark­

ing out the lines, he received advice that the Angri-

varians, whom he had left behind him were in mo­

tion. To check their progress, he sent a detachment

*>f light infantry, und.er the command of Stertinius,

