A. D. 14.] OF TACITUS. 35

and carry desolation into the provinces of Gaul. The

Germans, at the same time, knew the dissensions of

the Roman army; and, if the Rhine were once aban*.

doned, stood in readiness to seize so advantageous a

post. The moment was full of perplexity. To employ

the auxiliary forces and the states in alliance with

Rome against the revolted legions, were to engage

in a civil war. To proceed with rigour might be dan­

gerous ; and to pacify the men with largesses, were

an expedient altogether dishonourable. Grant all or

nothing, the dilemma was either way big with mis­

chief. After mature deliberation, letters were framed

in the name of Tiberius, importing, that at the end of

twenty years the soldier should be entitled to his dis­

mission ; that, after sixteen, he should be deemed a

veteran, still retained in the service, but exempt from

all duty, except that of repelling the incursions of the

enemy. A promise was added, that the legacies given

by Augustus should not only be paid, but increased

to double the amount.

XXXVII. The forgery was suspected by the soldiers.

They saw that the letter was an expedient to gain

time. They demanded immediate compliance, and

accordingly dismissions from the service were made

out by the tribunes. The payment of the money was

deferred till the legions arrived in their winter quar­

ters. The fifth and one-and-twentieth refused to

stir from the camp, till Germanicus, with his own

finances and the assistance of his friends, made up

the sum required. The first and twentieth legions,

under the command of Csecina, proceeded towards

the city of the Ubians; exhibiting, as they marched,

a shameful spectacle, while they carried, amidst the

colours and the Roman eagles, the treasure extorted

from their general. Germanicus proceeded with ex­

pedition to the army on the Upper Rhine, and there

required the oath of fidelity to the emperor. The se­

cond, the thirteenth, and sixteenth legions complied

without hesitation. The fourteenth stood for some

time in suspense. They made no demand; but Ger­

manicus ordered dismissions from ths service ta ha

