A. D. 15.] 61 OF TACITUS.

soldiers, ran wild through the camp, trampling down

all that came in his way. This accident spread a ge­

neral panic. In the first hurry of surprise, it was ge­

nerally believed that the Germans had stormed the

intrenchments. The soldiers rushed to the gates,

chiefly to that called the Decuman, at the back of

the camp, remote from, the enemy, and the most like­

ly to favour their escape. Csecina knew that it was

a false alarm; he tried to recal the men from their

error: he commanded, he implored, he laid hold of

numbers; but finding all without effect, he threw

himself on the ground, and lay stretched at length

across the passage. At the sight of their general in

that condition, the men recoiled with horror from the

outrage of trampling on his body. In that interval,

the tribunes and centurions convinced the men that

their fears were without foundation.

LXVII. Csecina assembled his men in the part of

the camp assigned for the eagles. Having commanded

silence, he explained their situation, and the necessi­

ty that called upon them to act like men. " They had

"nothing to depend upon except their valour; but

" their valour must be cool, deliberate, guided by pru-

" dence. Let all remain within the lines, till the bar-

" barians, in hopes of carrying the works, advance to

" the assault. Then will be the time to sally out. By

M one brave effort they might open a passage to the

" Rhine. If they fled, other woods, and deeper fens,

" remain behind; perhaps more savage enemies. By

"one glorious victory they were sure of gaining

"every advantage; honoured by their country, loved

" by their families, and applauded by the whole

" army." The bright side of the military life being

thus held forth, he said nothing of the reverse. His

next care was to select a body of his bravest soldiers.

These he provided with horses, as well from his own

retinue, as from those of the tribunes and centurions,

without favour or partiality, distinguishing merit only.

The men thus mounted were to make the first im­

pression on the en^§y, and the infantry had orders to

support the rear.

LXVIII. The Germans, in the mean time, were no

Vol. I.—F

