A. Oi, 1ACITUS. 18!/ ,

LXIII. Several other cities appeared by their de­

puties; but the senate, weary of the number, and of

the party-spirit, with which different places were

espoused, came to a resolution, to refer the whole

to the consuls, and wait their report on the merits of

each distinctive case. The consuls went through

the inquiry. Besides the temples already mentioned,

they found at Pergamos the sanctuary of iEsculapius,

. confirmed by authentic proof. The titles of other

places, being all deduced from ages too remote, were

lost in the darkness of antiquity. In this number

was the oracle of Apollo, by which it was pretended,

that the people of Smyrna were commanded to build

a temple to Venus Stratonice; and another of the

same god, directing a temple and a statue to Nep­

tune, in the isle of Tenos. The Sardians, and the

people of Miletus, were content with a more modern

date. The former relied on the privileges granted

by Alexander; and the latter, on the authority of

Darius. Diana was the tutelar deity in one of those

cities, and Apollo in the other. The statue of Au­

gustus was held to be a sanctuary by the inhabitants

of Crete. Several decrees were passed, with due at­

tention to the religious tenets of the people, yet

limiting the number of sanctuaries. These regula­

tions were ordered to be engraved in brass, and fixed

up in the respective temples, as lasting monuments,

to ascertain the rights now established, and prevent

the future claims of national pride, or Blind super­

stition.

LXIV. About this time a fit of illness threatened

the life of Livia. Her danger was so alarming, that

it occasioned the emperor's return to Rome. Hitherto

the mother and son had lived on terms of mutual

regard, or, at worst, with hatred well disguised. Li­

via, not long before, had raised a statue to Augustus,

near1 the theatre of Marcellus. In the votive inscrip­

tion her own name preceded that of the emperor. To.

the jealous temper of Tiberius this was an offence

against the imperial dignity. His resentment, how­

ever, was suppressed, and for that reason, was thought

to haTe sunk the deeper. The senate proceeded!" 1

