A. D. 20.] 149 oP TACITUS.

•4 and his wife Planeina were known to have assisted

44 in superstitious rites and impious sacrifices. And

"yet the prisoner did not stop there: he was guilty

" of rebellion; he appeared in arms against the state;

" and before he could be brought to justice as a citi-

" zen, he was conquered as an enemy."

XIV. The defence in every article, except that

which related to the crime of poison, was weak and

ineffectual. The charge of debauching the soldiers

by bribery, the rapacity of his creatures, and the in-

suits offered to Germanicus, were stubborn facts, and

could not be denied. The crime of poisoning seemed

to be sufficiently answered. It was left on weak

ground by the managers of the prosecution. All they

had to urge in support of that article, was a bare al­

legation, that Piso, at an entertainment given by Ger­

manicus, being placed on a couch above the prince,

had contrived with his own hands to mingle poison*

with the victuals. An attempt of the kind, in the

midst of servants not his own, under the eye of num­

bers, and in the very presence of Germanicus, seemed

improbable, and indeed absurd. To refute it altoge­

ther, Piso made a tender of his slaves to be ques­

tioned on the rack, demanding, at the same time, that

the domestics of Germanicus, who waited that day at

tabic, should undergo the like examination. But no­

thing made an impression on the judges. For differ­

ent reasons they were all implacable; Tiberius, on

account of the war levied in Syria: the senators, from

a full persuasion that treachery had a hand in the

death of Germanicus. A motion was made for the

production of all letters written to the criminal by

Tiberius and Livia. This was opposed with vehe­

mence, not only by Piso, but also by the emperor. The

clamours of the populace, who surrounded the senate-

house, were heard within doors. The cry was, if Piso

escaped by the judgment of the fathers, he should die

by the hands of the people. They had already seized

his statues, and in their fury, dragged them to the place

of execution called the Gemonise, with intent to break

them into fragments. By order of Tiberius they were

rescued out of their hands. Piso was conveyed home

N2

