94 THE ANNALS [A. U. C. 769.

of the accusers; but in a style of moderation, neither

aggravating nor extenuating the offence.

XXX. Fonteius Agrippa and Caius Vibius, two

new accusers, joined in support of the prosecution.

Being now four in number, they could not agree

among themselves which should take the lead. The

point was contested with much warmth. Vibius at

length observed, that Libo came to the trial without

an advocate to support him; and therefore, to end

the dispute with his associates, he undertook to detail

in a plain and simple manner the heads of the charge.

Nothing could be more wild and extravagant than

some of the articles. He stated that Libo had made

it a question to the fortune-tellers, whether he should

ever be rich enough to cover with money the Appian

road, as far as Brundusium. There Were other alle­

gations of the same stamp, equally void of common

sense; or, to speak more truly, so weak and frivolous,

that they could move no passion but pity.

There was, however, one fact of a serious nature.

A paper was produced, containing a list of the Csesars,

and also sev eral senators, with remarks, or notes, which

no man could decypher, annexed to their names.

This was exhibited as the hand-writing of Libo. He

insisted on his innocence. It was proposed to put his

slaves to the torture. Their evidence, by the estab­

lished rules of law, was inadmissible. By an ancient „

decree of the senate, it was ordained, that, where the

master's life was in danger, no slave should undergo

. the question. Tiberius, by a master-stroke of inven­

tion, found an expedient to evade the law. He di­

rected a sale of the slaves to be made to the public

officer, that, the property being altered, they might

then be examined on a new principle, unknown to

former times. Libo prayed an adjournment to the

next day. , Being returned to his own house, he sent

by his relation, Publius Quirinius, an humble petition

to the emperor; the answer was, "he must address

»' the senate."

XXXI. A party of soldiers surrounded Libo's honse,

and, with the brutal rudeness of men insolent in an­

