56 [A. U. C. 768. THE ANNALS

LXI. Touched by this affecting circumstance, Ger-

manicus resolved to pay the last human office to the

relics of that unfortunate commander, and his slaugh­

tered soldiers. The same tender sentiment diffused

itself through the army: some felt the touch of na­

ture for their relations, others for their friends; and

all lamented the disasters of war, and the wretched

lot of human kind. Carina was sent forward to ex­

plore the woods: where the waters were out. to throw

up bridges; and, by heaping loads of earth on the

swampy soil, to secure a solid footing. The army

marched through a gloomy solitude. The place pre­

sented an awful spectacle, and the memory of a tragi­

cal event increased the horror of the scene. The first

camp of Varus appeared in view. The extent of the

ground,and the three different inelosures forthe eagles,

still distinctly seen, left no doubt that the whole was

the work of the three legions. Farther on were traced

the ruins of a rampart, and the hollow of a ditch well

nigh filled up. This was supposed to be the spot where

the few, who escaped the general massacre, made

their last effort, and perished in the attempt. The

plains around were white with bones, in some places

thinly scattered, in others lying in heaps, as the men

happened to fall in flight, or in a body resisted to

the last. Fragments of javelins, and the limbs of

horses, lay scattered about the field. Human skulls,

were seen upon the trunks of trees. In the adjacent

woods stood the savage altars where the tribunes and

principal centurions were offered up a sacrifice with

barbarous rites. Some of the soldiers who survived

that dreadful day, and afterwards broke their chains,

related circumstantially several particulars. " Here

" the commanders of the legions were put to the

"sword: on thai spot the eagles were seized. There

" Varus received his first wound: and this is the place

" where he gave himself the mortal stab, and died by

" his own sword. Yonder mound was the tribunal from

" which Ajrminius harangued his countrymen: here

"he fixed his gibbets; there he dug the funeral

*' trenches, and in that quarter he offered every mark

