184 [A.U. C.775. THE ANNALS

quity continue! but let it be a generous emulation

for superior virtue; and may that spirit go down to

fliture times!

LVI. Tiberius gained by these proceedings a con­

siderable share of popularity. His moderation in the

business of the intended reform, gave satisfaction to

all ranks and conditions. The people saw, with plea­

sure, the tribe of informers disappointed in their

views. In this favourable moment, Tiberius, by let­

ters to the senate, desired that his son Drusus might

be invested with the tribunitian dignity. That spe­

cious title, importing nothing less than sovereign

power, was invented by Augustus, at a time when

the name of king or dictator was not only unconsti­

tutional, but universally detested. And yet a new

name was wanted to overtop the magistrates and

the forms of the constitution. In that power usurped,

Marcus Agrippa became his colleague ; and, after his

death, Tiberius Nero succeeded. By the last promo­

tion, it was the policy of Augustus to mark out the

line of succession, and thereby check the views of,as- ,

piring men. He was sure that Tiberius would act an

under part, and, besides, his own name was a tower of

strength. Tiberius, in the present juncture, followed

the precedent left by Augustus. During the life of

Germanrcus, he held the balance even between the

two young princes, reserving to himself the power of

deciding when he should see occasion. In the letter,

which opened the matter to the senate, after invoking

the gods, and fervently praying that the measure

might be of advantage to the commonwealth, he in­

troduced the character of Drusus, but in a guarded

style, never exceeding the bounds of truth. The

prince, he, said, had a wife and three children, and

was then of the age, which he himself had attained

when raised by Augustus to the same honour. Nor

eould the favour now requested, be deemed prema­

ture. Drusus had gone through a probation of eight

years; the proofs of his merit were, seditions quelled,

wars happily terminated, the splendour of a triumph,

and two consulships. There was therefore no danger

that he would be a novice in public business.

