A.D. 16.] 97 OF TACITUS.

" qualifications of a Roman knight. Has nature made

"a distinction between them? No, it is civil policy

"that draws the line; and surely it is fit that they,

" who stand high in rank, in honours, and public sla-

" tion, should live in suitable splendour, not only fur-

"nished with the necessaries, but also with the ele-

" gancies, of life. High station is at best a post of

" danger. Will any one argue, that men in office arc

"to drudge in business, condemned to endless toil,

" without the means of repairing the waste of labour,

"and without a comfort to sooth anxiety?" The apo­

logist of dissipation and luxury carried his point. With

an audience of congenial manners, public vices, deco­

rated with specious names, were public virtues. Ti­

berius closed the debate. The times, he said, were

not ripe for a censor; but if corruption went on in­

creasing, there would be no want of vigour to reform

abuses of every kind.

XXXIV. In the course of these debates, Lucius Piso

broke out with vehemence against the reigning vices

of the times, the spirit of intrigue that prevailed in

the forum, the venality of the courts of justice, and

the band of public informers, who were ever armed

with accusations, and spread terror through all ranks

and degrees of men. For his part, he abjured the city

of Rome. In some remote corner of the world, he was

determined to seek an obscure but safe retreat from

'he villany of abandoned men. He spoke and left the

senate house. Tiberius heard him, but not without

inward mortification. He endeavoured by every

means in his power to appease his indignation; and

exerted all his interest with Piso's relations, in order

to dissuade him from his purpose. In a short time

after, the same eminent person gave another proof of

his firmness. He had commenced a suit against Ur-

gulania, a woman raised above the control of law by

the friendship of Livia. Disdaining to answer the

process, this haughty favourite took shelter in the im­

perial palace. Piso persisted in his demand, undis­

mayed by the resentment of Livia, who considered

his obstinacy as an affront to herself. Tiberius

thought fit to temporize with the passions of his mo-

Vol. I.—I

