A D. 19.] 121 or TACITUS.

Hat the whole army was called forth into the field

by Rhamses, one of the kings of Egypt; and, under

the auspices of that monarch overran all Libya,

.Ethiopia, and in their progress subdued the Medes

and Persians, the Bactrians and the Scythians, with

the extensive regions inhabited by the Syrians, the

Armenians, and their neighbours the Cappadocians.

By this conquest a tract of country, extending from

Bithynia on the Pontic Sea to the coast of Lycia, in

the Mediterranean, was reduced to subjection. The

inscription further stated the tribute payed by the

conquered nations; the specific weight of gold and

silver; the quantity of arms, the number of horses,

the offerings of ivory and of rich perfumes presented

to the temples of Egypt; the measure of grain, and

the various supplies administered by every nation;

making altogether a prodigious revenue; no way in­

ferior to the taxes of late years collected either by

Parthian despotism, or the authority of Rome.

LXI. In a country abounding with wonders, the

curiosity of Germanicus was not easily satisfied. He

saw the celebrated statue of Memnon, which, though

wrought in stone, when played upon by the rays of

the sun, returns a vocal sound. He visited the pyra­

mids, those stupendous structures raised by the emu­

lation of kings, at an incredible expense, amidst a

waste of sands almost impassable. He saw the pro­

digious bason, formed by the labour of man, to re­

ceive the overflowings of the Nile ; and in other parts

of the river, where the channel is narrowed, he ob­

served a depth of water so profound, that the curio­

sity of travellers has never been able to explore the

bottom. The prince proceeded as far as Elphantine'

and Scyend, the boundaries formerly of the Roman

empire, though now extended as far as the Red Sea.

LXII. While Germanicus passed the summer in

visiting the provinces of Egypt, Drusus, by his able

conduct in Pannonia, acquired no small degree of re­

putation. He had the address to make the Germans

turn their hostilities against themselves. The power

of Maroboduus was in its wane; and his countrymen

were, by consequence, encouraged io complete the

Voli.l.—L

