70 THE ANNALS [A. U. C. 768.

ment, had great weight with the fathers; and what

was established by that prince, Tiberius would not

presume to alter. To fix the salary of the players at

a certain sum, and to repress the zeal of their parti­

sans, several decrees were passed: the most material

were, " That no senator should enter the house of a

"pantomime performer: that the Roman knights

" should not attend the players in the street; no ex-

" hibition to be presented in any place except the

" theatre; and all who engaged in riots were liable to

" be banished by the sentence of the prsetor."

LXXVIII. In consequence of a petition from Spain,

leave was given to erect a temple to Augustus in the

colony of Terragon. By this decree a precedent was

held forth to all the provinces. The people of Rome

presented a petition, praying that the payment of the

hundredth part, which was a tax on all vendible com­

modities, imposed since the close of the civil wars,

might be remitted for the future. Tiberius declared,

by public edict, " That the support of the army de-

" pendod upon that fund; and even with those re-

" sources the commonwealth was unequal to the

" charge, unless the veterans were retained in the ser-

" vice for the full term of twenty years." By this art­

ful stroke, the regulations limiting the time to sixteen

years, which had been extorted during the sedition in

Germany, were in effect repealed, and rendered void

for the future.

LXXIX. A project to prevent inundations, by giving

a new course to the lakes and rivers that empty

themselves into the Tiber, was proposed to the senate

by Lucius Arruntius and Atteius Capito. The mu­

nicipal towns and colonies were heard in opposition

to the measure. The Florentines stated, " That if the

" Clanis were diverted from its channel, and made to

" flow by a new course into the Arno, their whole

" country would be ruined." The inhabitants of In-

teramna made the like objection; contending that " if

" the Nan, according to the plan proposed, were di-

. "videdinto various rivulets, the most fertile plains

" in Italy would be no better than a barren waste."

Noi did the people of Reat£ remain silent: they re

