18 [A.U.C. 767. THE ANNALS

own rank, he was determined to act with the strictest

self-denial. This had the appearance of moderation,

but envy was the source. By the honours intended

to his mother, he thought his own glory might bo

eclipsed, and, in that spirit, prevented a decree, by

which a lictor was ordered to attend her; nor would

he suffer an altar to be raised on account of her adop­

tion into the Julian family. Other marks of distinc­

tion were proposed, and rejected. Germanicus waa

more favourably treated: for him Tiberius desired

the rank of proconsul. Special messengers were sent

to invest him with his honours, and at the same time

to condole with him on the loss of Augustus. Drusua

was then at Rome; and, being consul designed, in his

favour nothing new was demanded. By virtue of the

imperial prerogative, twelve candidates were named

for the prsetorship. That number had been settled by

Augustus; and though the senate entreated Tiberius

to enlarge the lis), he bound himself by an oath never

to exceed the line already drawn.

XV. The right of electing magistrates, by public

suffrage, in the Field of Mars, was now, for the first

time, taken from the people at large, and vested in

the senate. The will of the prince had, before that

time, great influence in all elections; but parties were

formed among the tribes, and sometimes with success.

To this encroachment the people made no opposition :

they saw their rights taken from them ; they grumbled

and submitted. The senators were pleased with the

change. They were now delivered from the necessi­

ty of humiliating condescensions in the course of their

canvass, and from the heavy expense of bribery and

corruption. The moderation of Tiberius was a further

circumstance in favour of the measure; four candi­

dates of his nomination were implicitly to be chosen,

without intrigue or contention; and the prince, con­

tent with that number, promised not to stretch his

prerogative. The tribunes of the people applied for

leave to celebrate, at their own expense, the games

newly instituted in honour of Augustus, and ordered

to be added to the calendar, under the title of the Au­

gustan Games. A decree passed; but the expense

