42 THE ANNALS [A. U. C. 767.

to Caius Citronius, who commanded the first legion.

By that officer'the delinquents were brought to im­

mediate justice. The form of proceeding was as fol­

lows: The legions under arms were ranged round the

tribunal: the criminal was set up to public view; if

the general voice pronounced him guilty, he was

thrown headlong down, and put to instant death. In

this mode of punishment the soldier concurred with

ardour; by shedding the blood of others, he thought

his own guilt was expiated. The measure, however

violent, received no check from Germanicus. What

was done had no sanction from his orders. The

cruelty began with the soldiers, and by consequence

could be imputed to no one else. The veterans fol­

lowed the example, and in a few days afterwards were

ordered to march into Rhsetia, under colour of defend­

ing the province from the inroads of the Suevians;

but in truth, to remove them from a camp polluted

by rebellion, and in the end made savage by the hor­

ror of military execution. A strict review of the cen­

turions was the first care of Germanicus. They wero

all cited before him; each in person gave in his name,

his rank, the place of his birth, ^he length of his ser­

vices, the actions in which he had distinguished him­

self, and the military honours which he had obtained.

If the tribunes, or the legion in general, reported in

his favour, he preserved his station; if taxed by the

general voice with avarice or cruelty, he was dis­

charged from the service.

XLV. Order and tranquillity were in this manner

restored; but at the distance of sixty miles, at a place

called Vetera, riot and disorder still subsisted. The

fifth and twenty-first legions were there in winter

quarters. In the late commotions these men wero

the first and most active incendiaries. The worst and

blackest crimes were by them committed; and now,

when the storm was in appeurance over, they still re­

tained their former ferocity, unreclaimed by the peni­

tence of others, and undismayed by the fate of those

who had suffered death. To meet this new alarm,

Germanicus resolved to equip his fleet, and with the

