172 THE ANNALS [A. U.C.774.

" lord it over them with pride and arrogance. By the

" murder of Germanicus, disaffection was diffused

" among the legions, and the opportunity to strike the

" blow for liberty was now arrived. Reflect on the

" numbers we can bring into the field : remember the

" impoverished state of Italy. At Rome every war-

" like principle is extinguished. The strength of their

" armies is mouldered away. They have no national

" strength, but depend altogether on foreign nations

" to fight their battles."

XLI. A general spirit of revolt prevailed in every

part of Gaul. Scarce a city was free from commo­

tion. The flame blazed out among the Andecavians

and the people of Tours ; but by the diligence of

Acilius Aviola, who marched from Lyons at the head

of a cohort, the insurgents in the former province

were reduced to obedience. The same commander,

with a legionary force, detached by Visellius Varro,

from the Lower Germany, marched into the territory

of Tours, and quelled the insurrection. In this ex­

pedition some of the principal chiefs in Gaul joined

the Roman army, not with zeal for the cause, but

pretending friendship, in order, with surer effect, to

be traitors in the end. Even Sacrovir fought with

the Romans: he was seen in the heat of action with

his head uncovered, in order, as he gave out, to sig­

nalize his courage and fidelity: but in truth, as was

afterwards collected from the prisoners, to avoid be­

ing aimed at by the darts of his countrymen. An

account of these disturbances was transmitted to Ti­

berius. He doubted the intelligence, and by his in­

decision prolonged the war.

XLII. Julius Florus, in the mean time, continued

to exert his most vigorous efforts. A regiment of

horse, raised formerly among the Treveri, but train­

ed to the Roman discipline, happened to be quartered

at Treves. He tampered with those troops, in hopes

of beginning the war by a general massacre of the

Roman merchants. A small number listened to his

advice, but the rest continued in their duty. Florus

was followed by a rabble of debtors, and a number of

his own dependants. He marched towards the forest

