190 > THE ANNALS [A.U.C.'775.

order supplications for the recovery ofLivia, with so­

lemn games on the occasion; in which the pontiffs,

the augurs, the college of fifteen, with' that of the

septemvirs, and the sodality of Augustan priests were

to conduct the ceremonies. Lucius Apronius moved

that the heralds at arms should likewise officiate.

Tiberius'opposed the motion. It proceeded, he said,

on a mistaken principle. He. mentioned the distinct

functions of the several orders of the priesthood, and

made it clear, from ancient precedents, that the he­

rald had never been admitted to that participation of

honour. The fraternity of Augustan priests was call­

ed forth with good reason, since that order belonged,

in a peculiar manner, to the family for which public

vows were to be offered.

LXV. To give in detail, the several motions and

resolutions of the time, is not within the plan of this

work. And yet, when virtue and fair integrity do

honour to the heart, or when a slavish spirit brands

the character, in either case, it is my intention to se­

lect the particular instances. In this I apprehend

consists the chief part of the historian's duty. It is

his to rejudge the conduct of men, that generous ac­

tions may be snatched from oblivion, and that the

author of pernicious counsels, and the perpetrator of

evil deeds, may see beforehand, the infamy that

awaits them at the tribunal of posterity. In general,

a black and shameful period lies before me. The age

was sunk to the lowest depth of sordid adulation; in­

somuch that not only the most illustrious citizens, in

order to secure their pre-eminence, were obliged to

crouch and bend the knee, but men of consular and

prsetorian rank, and the whole body of the senate,

tried with emulation which should be the most obse­

quious slave. We are informed by tradition, that

Tiberius, as ofi^en as he went from the senate-house,

was used to say in Greek, " Devoted men! how they

" rush headlong into bondage!" Even he, the enemy of

civil liberty, was disgusted with adulation, he played

the tyrant, and despised the voluntary slave.

LXVI. From acts of base compliance, the next step

of degenerate men was to deeds of horror. Caius Si­

