06 THE AXJiALS [A. U. C. 768.

such prosecutions judgment should be pronounced,

returned for answer, that the law must take its course.

The fact was, Tiberius in his turn had felt the edge

of satire in certain anonymous verses, circulated at

that time, and keenly pointed at his pride, his cruelty,

and his dissensions with his mother. /

LXXIII. It will not be deemed an improper di­

gression, if we state in this place the cases of two

Roman knights, Falanius and Rubrius, both of nar­

row fortunes, and both attacked under the new mode

of prosecution. A review of those proceedings will

show the grievance in its origin, and its progress:

how it gathered strength from the wily arts of Tibe­

rius; from what causes it was for a time suppressed,

and afterwards revived in all its force, till it proved

in the end the most detestable invention that ever

harassed mankind. The charge against Falanius was.

that he had admitted into one of the fraternities, then

established in honour of Augustus, one Cassius, a

comedian of profligate manners; and further, that, in

the sale of his gardens, he had suffered a statue of

Augustus to be put up to auction with the rest of his

goods. The crime alleged against Rubrius was, that,

being sworn on the name of Augustus, he was guilty

of perjury. Tiberius, as soon as he was apprized of

these proceedings, wrote to the consuls—" that divine

" honours were not decreed to the memory of his

" father in order to lay snares for the people. Cas-

" sius, the player, as well as others of his profession,

had often assisted in the games dedicated by Livia

'" to the memory of the deceased emperor; and if his

" statue, in common with those of the gods in gene-

" ral, was put up to sale with the house and gardens,

" the interests of religion would not be hurt. A false

" oath on the name of Augustus was the same as a

" perjury in an appeal to Jupiter: but the gods must

44 be their own avengers."

LXXIV. In a short time after this transaction

Granius Marcellus, prator of Bythynia, was accused

of violated majesty by his own qusestor, Csepio Cris-

pinus. The charge was supported by Romanus Hispo,

a mercenary advocate, who had then lately set up the

