A. D. 20.] 145 OF TACITUS.

young man of a free and open disposition, unhack­

neyed in the ways of business, could have acted with

that guarded reserve, which marked the veteran in

politics.

IX. Piso crossed the gulf of Dalmatia, and, leaving

his ships at Ancona, went forward to Picenum. From

that place he pursued his journey on the Flaminian

road, and on his way met a legion marching from

Pannonia to Rome, in order to proceed from thence

to serve in Africa. This incident was variously can­

vassed by the people. A criminal, it was said, pre­

sumes to join the soldiers on their march, and even

waylays them at. their quarters, to curry favour with

his military friends. Piso heard of these complaints,

and, to avoid suspicion, or because it is the nature of

guilt to be always wavering and irresolute, at Narni

he embarked on the Nar, and, sailing down the Ti­

ber, landed on the Field of Mars, near the tomb of the

Csesars. This was another causo of popular discon­

tent: in open day, amidst a crowd of spectators, he

and his wife Plancina made their appearance; the

former surrounded by a tribe of clients, and the latter

by a train of female attendants; all with an air of gay-

ety, bold, erect, and confident. Piso's house overlook­

ed the forum; preparations were made for a sumptu­

ous entertainment; the scene was adorned with splen­

did decorations: and, from the nature of the situation,

nothing could remain a secret. The whole was ex­

posed to the public eye.

X. On the following day Fulcinius Trio exhibited an

accusation before the consuls. To this proceeding

Vitellius, Veranius and others, who had attended

Germanicus into Asia, made strong objections; alleg­

ing that Trio had not so much as a colour to entitle

him to the conduct of the prosecution. As to them­

selves they did. not mean to stand forth as accusers;

but they had the last commands of Germanicus, and

to the facts within their knowledge intended to ap­

pear as witnesses. Trio waved his pretensions, but

still claimed a right to prosecute for former misde­

meanors. That liberty was allowed. Application

was made to the emperor, that the cause might be

Vol. I.—N

