OF TACITUS. 8

dignity of pontiff and sedile: on the latter, by his birth

obscure, but eminent for military talents, and the com­

panion of all his victories, he conferred the honour of

two successive consulships; and in a short time after,

upon the untimely death of Marcellus, chose him for

his son-in-law. Tiberius Nero, and Claudius Drusus,

the sons of his wife Livia, were adorned with the title

of Imperator, though the succession in the house of

Augustus was at that time well secured by other

branches of the house of Csesar. He had already

adopted into the imperial family Caius and Lucius,

the two sons of Agrippa; and to see them, even be­

fore they had put on the manly gown, considered as

princes of the Roman youth, and marked out as future

consuls, was his ardent desire; though, for political

reasons, he chose to disguise his sentiments. To ob­

tain those honours for his family was the wish of his

heart; while, under a show of coy reluctance, he seem­

ed to reject them. Agrippa departed this life, and in

a short time after his two sons were cut off; Lucius

Csesar on his road to join the army in Spain; and

Caius on his return from Armenia, where he had re­

ceived a wound that impaired his health. Whether

they died by their own premature fate, or the machi­

nations of their step-mother Livia, is to this day pro­

blematical. Drusus had paid his debt to nature, leav­

ing Tiberius the only surviving son-in-law of the*

emperor. The current of court favour was now

directed that way. He was adopted by Augustus,

declared his colleague in the government, his asso­

ciate in the tribunitian power, and shown as the rising

sun to the army, not, as before, by the secret arts of

Livia, but with her open and avowed direction.

Augustus was now in the decline of life, and Livia

had gained unbounded influence over his affections.

By her contrivance Agrippa Posthumus, the only sur-i

viving grandson of the emperor, was banished to the:

isle of Planasia. In praise of this young man much

cannot be said: he was a stranger to the liberal arts,

uncouth, unformed, and stupidly valuing himself on

his bodily strength; yet free from vice, or the impu­

tation of crime.

a2

