A. D.20.], 141 OF TACITUS.

sorrow, varied only by the contrast between the at­

tendants of Agrippina, and those who now received

the first impression. The former appeared with a

languid air; while the latter, yielding to the sensation

of the moment, broke out with all the vehemence of ,

recent grief.

II. Tiberius had ordered to Brundusium two prse­

torian cohorts. The magistrates of Calabria, Apulia,

and Campania, had it in command to pay every

mark of honour to the memory of the emperor's son.

The urn was borne on the shoulders of the centurions

and tribunes, preceded by the colours, not displayed

with military pomp, but drooping in disorder, with all

the negligence of grief. The fasces were inverted. In

the colonies through which they passed, the populace

in mourning, and the knights in their purple robes,

threw into the flames rich perfumes, spices and gar­

ments, with other funeral offerings, according to the

ability of the place. Even from distant towns the

people came in crowds to meet the procession; they

presented victims; they erected altars to the gods of

departed souls, and by their lamentations marked

their sense of the public calamity. Drusus advanced

as far as Terracina, accompanied by Claudius, the

brother of Germanicus, and the children of the de­

ceased prince that had been left at Rome. The con­

suls, Marcus Valerius Messala, and Marcus Aurelius

Cotta, who a little before had entered on their ma­

gistracy, with the whole senate, and a numerous body

of citizens, went out to meet the melancholy train.

The road was crowded; no order kept, no regular

procession; they walked, and wept, as inclination

prompted. Flattery had no share in the business:

where the court rejoiced in secret, men could not

weep themselves into favour. Tiberius indeed dis­

sembled, but he could not deceive. Through the thin

disguise the malignant heart was seed.

HI. Neither the emperor nor his mother appeared

in public. They imagined, perhaps, that to be seen

in a state of affliction might derogate front their dig­

nity; or, the better reason was, that a number of

prying eyes might unmask their inmost sentiments.

