A. D. 15.] 55 OF TACITUS.

" that upstart emperor, keeps aloof from Germany,

" shall we, who have dared nobly for our liberties,

" shrink from a boy void of experience, and an army

"ruined by their own divisions? If your country is

" dear to you, if the glory of your ancestors is near

"your hearts, if liberty is of any value, if the enjoy-

"ment of your natural rights is preferable to new

" masters, and foreign colonies, follow Arminius. I

" will marshal you the way to glory and to freedom.

" Segestes has nothing in store but infamy, chains,

"and bondage."

LX. By these incendiary speeches all Germany t

was roused to action. The Cheruscans took up arms i

ind the neighbouring states followed their example.

Inguiomer, a man long known, and high in the esti足

mation of the Romans, declared in favour of Armi足

nius: he was uncle to that chieftain. By adopting his

measures, he added strength to the confederacy. Ger-

manicus saw the impending danger. To cause a di-

, version, and avoid the united strength of the enemy,

he ordered Csecina, with forty Roman cohorts, to

penetrate into the territory of the Bructerians as far

as the river Amisia. Pedo, at the head of the cavalry,

was directed to march along the confines of the Fri-

' sians. Germanicus, with four legions, embarked on

the lakes. One common place of destination was ap足

pointed: the foot, the cavalry, and the fleet, arrived

in due time. The Chaucians joined the RTSman army;

the Bructerians set fire to their houses, and abandoned

their country. Lucius Stertinius, with a detachment

of the light horse, was ordered to pursue the fugitives.

That officer came up with the enemy, and put the

whole body to the rout. Amidst the slaughter that

followed, some of the soldiers were intent on plunder.

Among the spoils was found the eagle of the nine足

teenth legion, lost in the massacre of Varus. The army

pushed on with vigour to the farthest limit of tho

Bructerians. The whole country between the river

Amisia and the Luppia, was made a desert. The

Romans were now at a small distance from the forest

of Teutoburgium, where the bones of Vams and his

legions were said to be still unburied.

