A. D. 14.] 21 OF TACITUS.

" tinetion ? do they encounter greater dangers? it is

* theirs to mount guard within the city, and the ser-  
" vice may be honourable; but it is our lot to serve

" amidst savage nations, in a state of perpetual war-

",fkre. If we look out of our tents, the barbarians are

"in view."

XVIII. This speech was received with acclamations.

Various passions heaved in every breast. Some pre­

sented theirbodies seamed with stripes; others pointed

to their heads grown gray in the service; numbers

showed their tattered clothing, and their persons al­

most naked. At length the frenzy of the malcon­

tents knew no bounds. Their first design was to in­

corporate the three legions into one ; but which should

give its name to the united body, was the question;

mutual jealousy put an end to the project. Another

scheme took place; the eagles of the three legions,

with the colours of the cohorts, were crowded toge­

ther without preference or distinction. They threw

up sods of earth, and began to raise a tribunal.

Amidst the tumult Blssus arrived: he called aloud to

all; he laid hold of individuals: he offered himself to

their swords; and " Here," he said, " behold your vic-

", tim; imbrue your hands in the blood of your general.

",Murder is a crime less horrible than treason to your

44 prince. 1 will either live to command the legions

", entrusted to mc: or, if you are determined to revolt,

"despatch me first; that, when this frenzy is over,

"you may wake to shame, to horror, and remorse."

XIX. The work of raising a tribunal, in spite of all

his efforts, still went on. Heaps of turf were thrown

up, and rose breast-high. Conquered at length by the

perseverance of their general, the mutineers desisted.

Btesus exerted all his eloquence; " Sedition and re­

volt," he said, " could not serve their cause: the re-

" monstrances of the army ought to be conveyed to

" the ear of the prince with respect and deference.

*fc The demands which they now made were of the  
"first impression, unknown to former armies, and

4' with the deified Augustus never attempted. In the

♦'present juncture, when the prince was new to the

" cares of government, was that a time to add to

