128 [A.U. C. 772. THE ANNALS

" The poison is too slow in its operation for the wishes

" of my enemies; they want to hasten its effect; and 1

"the impatience of Piso has already swallowed up

" the province, with the command of the legions. But

" Germanicus is not yet deserted by all; his enemies

" may still have reason to repent; and the murderer

" will find that he has not long to enjoy the wages of

" his guilt." In this temper of mind he wrote a let­

ter to Piso, in express terms disclaiming all friendship

and connexion with him: as some will have it, he

commanded him to depart from the province. Piso,

in fact, did not linger at Seleucia: he embarked im­

mediately, but slackened his course; still willing to

hover near the coast, in hopes that the death of Ger­

manicus would leave the province open to his ambi­

tion.

LXXI. The disorder intermitting for a short time,

Germanicus had an interval of hope. But the fatal

moment was approaching; he sunk into a mortal

languor; and, finding himself near his end, took leave

of his friends in words to the following effect: " Were

" I to die a natural death, yet, thus cut off in the

" bloom of life from my family, my children, and my

" country, I might think it hard, and call the gods se-

" vere in their dispensations. Falling, as.I now do, a

'• victim to the iniquity of Piso and his wife Planeina,

" I leave with you, my friends, the request of a dying

" man. You know the indignities that provoked me

" beyond all enduring; you know the snares that have

"been laid for me, and you see tire anguish of heart

" that brings me prematurely to my grave: relate the

" whole to my father and my brother. The friends,

"whom prosperity connected with me; my relations,

" more closely united by the ties of blood, will hear

"the story with indignation: even envy, that never

" fails to persecute the living, will drop a tear over

" my remains. All will lament the fate of an un-

" happy prince, whom they saw nourishing in the

" smiles of fortune, a conqueror in so many battles,

"yet at last snatched away by the artifices of female

"malice. It will be yours to appeal to the senate;

"yours to invoke the vengeance of the laws; and

