116 [A/U.C.77I. THE ANNALS

The civility of the prince, he said, was shown, not

to the men of Athens (a race long since extirpated,)

but to a vile heterogeneous mass, the scum of various

nations, at one time in league with Mithridates against

Sylla, and afterwards with Marc Antony against Au­

gustus. Ho went back to the times of Philip of Mace-

don ; condemning, in terms of reproach, not only

their feeble exertions in their struggle with that mo­

narch, but also the ingratitude of a giddy populace to

their best and ablest citizens. To this behaviour Piso

was instigated by a private pique against the Athe­

nians. It happened that one Theophilus was con­

demned for forgery by the judgment of the Areopa­

gus: Piso endeavoured to gain a pardon for this man,

but that upright judicature was inflexible.

After this prelude to the scenes which he was still

to act, Piso embarked, and after a quick passage

through the Cyclades, arrived at Rhodes. While he

lay at the mouth of the harbour, a storm arose, and

drove the vessel on the point of a rock. Germanicus

was then at Rhodes. He knew the hostilities that

had been already commenced against himself, and

might have left a man of that dangerous character to

the mercy of the winds and waves; but, acting with

his usual benevolence, he sent off boats and galleys to

save even an enemy from destruction. Gratitude was

not in the character of Piso. He spent but a single

day with his benefactor; and to take his measures be­

forehand, proceeded on his way to Syria. Having

reached that place, he began by bribery, by intrigue

and cabals, to draw to himself the affections of the le­

gions. He caressed the lowest of the soldiers: he dis­

missed the centurions of approved experience, and

removed all the tribunes, who supported military disci­

pline , substituting in their room his own dependants,

and still worse, the vile and profligate, who had no­

thing but their crimes to recommend them. Sloth

prevailed in the camp; licentiousness diffused itself

through the cities; and over the face of the country

nothing was seen but a dissipated and disorderly

band of soldiers. By these practices Piso rose into

