A. D. 20.] 151 OF TACITUS.

were all suppressed. It was also confidently said that

Piso did not lay violent hands on himself, but died by

the stroke of an assassin. For the truth of these as­

sertions I do not mean to be answerable; I state the

facts as I heard them related by men with whom I

conversed in my youth; and the anecdotes of such

men may be deemed worthy of attention.

Tiberius attended the next meeting of the senate.

He there complained with seeming anxiety, that the

death of Piso was ' intended to reflect dishonour on

himself. He sent for the freedman, who had received

the paper sealed up, as already stated, and inquired

particularly about his master; how he passed the last

of his days ? and what happened in the course of the

nig,ht? The man answered in some instances with

caution, and in others off his guard. The emperor

produced Piso's letter, and read it to the senate. It

was nearly in the following words: " Oppressed by the

4i malice of my enemies, and falling under a load of

" imputed guilt, without a friend to espouse the truth,

" or shelter innocence, I call the immortal gods to wit-

"ness, that to you, Csesar, I have through life pre-

" served my faith inviolate. For your mother I have

" ever felt the sincerest veneration. I conjure you

" both to take my sons under your protection. Cneius

" Piso is innocent. Nothing that Iiappened in Asia

" can be imputed to him, since he remained, during the

" whole time, at Rome. His brother Marcus, when I

" returned to the province of Syria, was strenuous

" against the measure. Would to heaven that I had

"yielded to the advice of a young man, and that my

44 authority had not silenced all opposition. For him

" I offer my fervent prayers; let not the errors of the

" father bring down ruin on the son. If in the course

" of five-and-forty years I have been devoted to your

" service; if Augustus made me his colleague in the

4i consulship; if the remembrance of our early friend-

4i ship can now avail; by all those ties I implore your

ii mercy for my unhappy son. It is the request of

44 a dying father; the last I shall ever make." He

made no mention of Plancina.

XVII. Tiberius declared his opinion, that Marcus

