8 [A.U.C. 767. THE ANNALS

the same report that announced the death of Augustus,

proclaimed Tiberius in possession of the supreme

power.

VI. The first exploit of the new reign was the mur­

der of Agrippa Posthumus. A centurion of undaunted

resolution attacked him by surprise. Though unpro­

vided with arms, the young man did not easily yield :

he fell after a stout resistance. Of this event Tibe­

rius made no report to the senate, content with hint­

ing a pretended order of his deceased father, by which

the centurion, charged with the custody of Agrippa's

person, was commanded to despatch him, as soon as

' the emperor breathed his last. Augustus, it is true,

had arraigned the character and conduct of the young

man in terms of asperity; he had even banished him

by a decree of the senate: but it is equally true, that

he never imbrued his hands in the blood of his kin­

dred ; nor is it probable that, for the security of a step­

son, he would have doomed to death a descendant

from himself. The stronger presumption is, that Ti­

berius and Livia, the former impelled by his dread of

a rival, and the latter, by the malice of a step-mother^

were accomplices in the murder. When the assassin,

in the military phrase, reported to Tiberius, that what

he had given in orders was duly executed, the reply

of the new emperor was, that he had given no such

orders, and for what was done the centurion must an­

swer before the senate.

A disavowal so very extraordinary gave the alarm

to Sallustius Crispus, a minister then in favour, and

trusted with the secrets of the court. The warrant

for the execution had passed through his hands. He

dreaded a public examination; well aware that, whe­

ther he disclosed the truth, or attempted to disguise

it, his own danger would, in either case, be precisely

the same. To ward off the blow, he remonstrated to

Livia, that the secret counsels of the imperial family,

the conduct of ministers, and the actions of the cen­

turions, ought to be veiled from the public eye. By

referring too much to the senate, the prince would

weaken his own authority: that men should be ac­

