A. D. 20.] OF TACITUS.

to Cneius Piso, upon condition that he changed ,

family name; and that his brother Marcus, dives, "i-

of all civil honours, should be condemned to banisi. V

ment for the space of ten years, with a sum, however,

of fifty thousand great sesterces for his support. In

deference to the solicitations of Livia, it was proposed

to grant a free pardon to Plancina.

XVIII. This sentence, in many particulars, was

mitigated by Tiberius. The family name, he said,

ought not to be abolished, while that of Marc Antony,

who appeared in arms against his country, as well as

that of Julius Antonius, who by his intrigues disho­

noured the house of Augustus, subsisted still, and

figured in the Roman annals. Marcus Piso was left

in possession of his civil dignities and his father's for­

tune. Avarice, as has been already observed, was

not the passion of Tiberius. On this occasion, the

disgrace incurred by the partiality shown to Plancina,

softened his temper, and made him the more willing

to extend his mercy to the son. Valerius Messalinus

moved, that a golden statue might be erected in the

temple of Mars the Avenger. An altar to Venge­

ance was proposed by Csecina Severus. Both these

motions were overruled by the emperor. The principle

on which he argued was, that public monuments,

however proper in cases of foreign conquest, were not

suited to the present juncture. Domestic calamity

should be lamented, and as soon as possible consigned

to oblivion.

Messalinus added to his motion a vote of thanks to

Tiberius and Livia, to Antonia, Agrippina, and Dru-

sus, for their zeal in bringing to justice the enemies

of Germanicus. The name of Claudius was not

mentioned. Lucius Asprenas desired to know whe­

ther that omission was intended. The consequence

was, that Claudius was inserted in the vote. Upon

an occasion like this, it is impossible, not to pause for

a moment, to make a reflection that naturally rises

out of the subject. When we review what has been

doing in the world, is it not evident, that in all trans­

actions, whether of ancient or of modern date, some

strange caprice of fortune turns all human wisdom to

