THE ANNALS [A.U. C. 773.

Jie defence. My affections, it is true, are inter-

<oven with the cause: but you will not for that

, reason, take imputations for guilt, nor allegations

" for conclusive proof. And since either the ties

" of consanguinity, or motives of friendship, have en-

" gaged able advocates to patronize the party accused,

" let them exert their zeal, their talents, and their

" eloquence. In the same manner, I exhort the prose-

" cutors: let them act with the same constancy, with

" equal ardour. The only distinction which the pre-

" rogative of the prince can grant, is, that the cause

"shall be tried in this court, and not in the forum;

" in the presence of the senate, not before the common

" tribunals. In all things else let the forms of law

" be observed. The tears of Drusus, and my own

" afflictions, are foreign to the question ; let no man

" regard our interest: throw it out of the case, and

" discard from your minds the little calumnies that

" may glance at myself."

XIII. Two days were allowed to the prosecutors to

support their charge, six to prepare the defence, and

three for hearing it. Fulcinius Trio began. The

ground he took was the avarice and tyranny, with

which Piso conducted himself, during his administra­

tion in Spain. This was starting from a period too

remote. Though convicted on that point, the de­

fendant might still repel the present charge ; and if

acquitted, he might be guilty of higher crimes. Ful­

cinius was followed by Servseus, Veranius and Vitel-

lius; all three exerting Lhemselvcs with equal zeal,

but the latter with superior eloquence. The points

insisted upon were—" That Piso, incited by malice lo

" Germanicus, and his own ambitious views, diffused

" a spirit of licentiousness through the Roman army.

" He corrupted the soldiery, and suffered the allies of

" Rome to be plundered with impunity. In conse-

" quence of those pernicious acts, the vile and profli-

"gate hailed him father of the legions. But his

,* conduct was hostile to all good men, and more di­

rectly to the friends of Germanicus. To fill the

;l measure of his iniquity, he had recourse to magic

" arts, and the prince was destroyed by poison. Piso

