A. D. 14.J 41 OP TACITUS.

" you would have chosen another general, regardless

" indeed of my unhappy lot, but still of spirit to re-

" venge the massacre of Varus and his three legions.

" May that revenge be still reserved for the Roman

" sword ; and may the gods withhold from the Belgic

" states, though now they court the opportunity, the

" vast renown of vindicating the Roman name, and

" humbling the pride of the German nations ! and

" may thy departed spirit, adored Augustus! who

"now art ranked among the gods; and may thy image,

" Drusus, my ever honoured father! may thy me-

" mory inspire these unhappy men, whom I now see

" touched with remorse! May your active energy

" blot out the disgrace that sits heavy upon them;

" and may the rage of civil discord discharge itself

"on the enemies of Rome ! And you, my fellow-sol-

"diers! whom I behold with altered looks, whose

" hearts begin to melt with sorrow and repentance, if

" you mean to preserve the ambassadors of the senate;

" if you intend to remain faithful to your prince, and

" to restore my wife and children; detach yourselves,

"at once from the contagion of guilty men; withdraw

"from the seditious : that act will be a proof of your

" remorse, an earnest of returning virtue."

XLIV. The soldiers were appeased by this ha­

rangue. They acknowledged their guilt, and the

justice of the reproof. In a suppliant tone they en­

treated Germanicus to select for punishment the most

obnoxious; to pardon the weakness of men drawn

into error, and lead them against the enemy. They

requested that his wife might be recalled; and that

his son, the darling of the camp, might not be sent a

hostage to the states of Gaul. Agrippina being then

advanced in her pregnancy, and the winter season

approaching, Germanicus judged it best to let her

proceed on her journey. His son, he said, should once

more appear amongst them. What remained to be

done he left to themselves.

The soldiers were now incited by new sentiments

and passions, unfelt before: they seized the ringleaders

of the sedition, and delivered them, loaded with irons,

D2

