176 THE ANNALS [A. U. C. 774.

mass, without an effort to rise. Sacrovir threw him­

self into the town of Augustodunum, but in a short

time, fearing to be given up a prisoner, withdrew,

with his most faithful adherents, to , a villa in the

neighbourhood, where he put an end to his life. His

followers, having first set fire to the place, turned

their swords against themselves, and perished in one

general carnage.

XLVII. Tiberius, at length, thought fit to write to

the senate on the subject of these commotions. In

one and the same letter he gave an account of the

war begun and ended. He neither magnified nor

disguised the truth, but in plain terms ascribed the

whole success to the valour of his officers, and the

wisdom of his councils. Why he did not go in per­

son, or send his son Drusus, the same letter explained

his reason: " The extent and majesty of the empire

" claimed his utmost care. It was not for the dignity

" of the prince, on the revolt of one or two cities, to

" relinquish the seat of government. But now, since

" he could not be supposed to be under any kind qf

" alarm, it was his intention to show himself to the

"provinces, in order, by his presence, to allay the

" ferment, and restore the public tranquillity." Vows

for his return, and solemn festivals, with other usual

ceremonies, were decreed by the senate. Dolabella,

intending to display his genius in the trade of flattery,

succeeded so far as to show his meanness and absur­

dity. He proposed that the emperor, on his return

from Campania, should enter the city with the splen­

dour of an ovation. This occasioned a letter to the

senate from Tiberius, wherein he observed, " that af-

" ter conquering fierce and warlike nations, and hav-

"ing in his youth received and declined triumphal

" honours, he was not such a novice to glory as to

" desire, in the evening of his days, the vain parade

" of a public entry, for an excursion that was little

"more than a party of.pleasure to the suburbs ot

" Rome."

XLVIII. About this time Tiberius wrote to the se­

nate, requesting that a public funeral might be decreed

to.Sulpieius Quirinius ; a man no way related to the

,> '

