A.'D. 14.] 25 OF TACITUS.

protect him. The quarrel would have laid a scene

of blood, if the soldiers of the ninth legion had not, by

entreaty, or by menacing the obstinate, appeased the

fury of both parties.

XXIV. When the account of these transactions

reached Tiberius, that abstruse and gloomy temper,

which loved to brood in secret over all untoward

events, was so deeply aifected, that he resolved, with­

out delay, to despatch his son Drusus, with others of

high rank, and two prsetorian cohorts, to quell the in­

surrection. In their instructions no decisive orders

were given; they were left to act as emergencies

might require. To the cohorts was added a select

detachment, with a party of the pratorian horse, and

the flower of the Germans, at that time the body­

guard of the emperor. In the train which accompa­

nied Drusus, Elius Sejanus was appointed, by his

counsels to guide the inexperience of the prince. Se­

janus, at that time in a joint commission with his

father Strabo, had the command of the pranorian

bands, and stood high in favour with Tiberius: the

army would of course consider him as the fountain

of rewards and punishments. As soon as they ap­

proached the camp, the discontented legions, by way

of doing honour to Drusus, advanced to meet him;

not, indeed, with colours displayed, as is usual on

such occasions; but with a deep and solemn silence,

their dress neglected, and their whole appearance un­

couth and sordid. In their looks was seen an air of

dejection, and at fhe same time a sullen gloom, that

plainly showed a spirit of mutiny still working in

their heart.

XXV. Drusus was no sooner within the intrench-

ments, than the malcontents secured the gates. Sen­

tinels were posted at different stations, while the rest

in a body gathered, round the tribunal. Drusus stood

in act to speak, with his hand commanding silence.

The soldiers felt a variety of contending passions:

they looked around, and viewing their numbers, grew,

fierce at the sight: they rent the air with shouts and

were covered with confusion. An indistinct and hol­

low murmur was heard; a general uproar followed;

Vol. i.—C

