26 THE ANNALS [A. U. C. 767.

and soon afterwards a deep and awful silence. The

behaviour of the men varied with their passions ; by

turns inflamed with rage, or depressed with fear. Dru­

sus seized this moment, and read his father's letter,

in substance stating, that Tiberius had nothing so

much at heart as the interest of the gallant legions

with whom he had served in so many wars. As soon

as his grief for the loss of Augustus allowed him lei­

sure, it was his intention to refer the case of the army

to the wisdom of the senate. In the mean time, he

sent his son to grant all the relief that could then be

applied. Ulterior demands he reserved for the delibe­

ration of the fathers : to enforce authority, or to relax

it, was the lawful right of that assembly; and the se­

nate, beyond all doubt, would distribute rewards and

punishments with equal justice.

XXVI. The soldiers made answer, that they had

appointed Julius Clemens to speak in their behalf.

That officer claimed a right of dismission from the

service, at the end of sixteen years; all arrears then

to be discharged: in the mean time a denarius to he

the soldier's daily pay; and the practice of detaining

the men beyond the period of their service, under the

name of veterans, to be abolished forever. In a busi­

ness of so much moment, Drusus observed, that the

senate and the emperor must be consulted: a general

clamour followed. " Why did he come so far, since

" he had no authority to augment their pay, or to

"mitigate their sufferings? The power of doing good

" was not confided to him; while every petty officer

" inflicted blows, and stripes, and even death. It had

" been formerly the policy of Tiberius to elude the

" claims of the army, by taking shelter under the name

" of Augustus; and now Drusus comes to play the

" same farce. How long were they to be amused by

" the visits of the emperor's son? Could that be deemed

" an equitable government, that kept nothing in sus-

" pense but the good of the army? When the soldier

" is to be punished, or a battle to be fought, why not

"consult the senate? According to the present sys-

" tem, reward is to be always a subject of reference,

" while punishment is instant and without appeal.''

