40 THE ANNALS [A.U.C. 767.

1

" hostile states have ever held in respect, the rights

" of ambassadors, and the law of nations !

" Julius Csesar by a single word was able to quell

"a mutiny: he spoke to the men who resisted his

" authority ; he called them Romans, and they became

"his soldiers. Augustus showed himself to the Ie-

" gions that fought at Actium, and the majesty of his

" countenance awed them into obedience. The dis-

" tance between myself and those illustrious charac-

" tcrs, I know is great; and yet, descended from them,

" with their blood in my veins, I should resent with

" indignation a parallel outrage from the soldiers of

" Syria, or of Spain: and will you, ye men of the

"first legion, who received your colours from the

" hand of Tiberius; and you, ye men of the twentieth,

" his fellow warriors in the field, his companions in

" so many victories, will you thus requite him for all

" the favours so graciously bestowed upon you> From

" every other quarter of the empire Tiberius has re-

" ceived nothing but joyful tidings: and must I wound

" his ear with the news of your revolt? Must he hear

" from me, that neither the soldiers raised by myself,

" nor the veterans who fought under him, are willing

"to own his authority? Must he be told that neither

" dismissions from the service, nor money lavishly

"granted, can appease the fury of ungrateful men?

"Must I inform him, that here the centurions are

" murdered; that, in this camp, the tribunes are

" driven from their post; that here the ambassadors

" of Rome are detained as prisoners ? That the in-

" trenchments present a scene of slaughter; that rivers

" are discoloured with our blood ? and that a Roman

" general leads a precarious life, at the mercy of men

" inflamed with epidemic madness ?

XLIII. " Why, the other day, when I endeavoured

" to address you, why was the sword which I aimed

" at my breast, why in that moment was it wrested

" from me ? Oh ? my mistaken friends ! The man who

" presented his sword, dealt more kindly by me. I

" could then have closed my eyes in peace. I should

" not have lived to see the disgrace of the legions,

" and all the horrors that followed. After my death,

