A. D. 17.] or tacitm. 111

For this disinterested conduct the reason assigned

was, that the dignity of two such illustrious citizens

deserved to be supported. In general, it was a rule

with Tiberius, in all cases where he had no previous

title from connexion or friendship, not to accept any

property as testamentary heir. When humour, ca足

price, or passion induced a stranger to dismherit his

kindred, and make a disposition in favour of the

prince, he declared it an inofficious testament. To

honest and virtuous poverty he often showed himself

a friend, to prodigality he was an inflexible enemy.

In the class of spendthrifts he considered Vibidius

Varro, Marius Nepos, Appius Appianus, Cornelius

Sylla, and Quintus Vitellius. These men, undone by

their own extravagance, were either expelled the se足

nate, or allowed to vacate their seats.

XLIX. The plan undertaken by Augustus for the

building of temples in the room of such as had been

injured by time, or damaged by fire, was now com足

pleted. Tiberius dedicated the various structures of

their respective deities; one near the Great Circus to

' Bacchus, Proserpine, and Ceres, originally raised in

consequence of a vow made by Aulus Posthumius

the dictator; a temple to Flora, near the same place,

formerly dedicated by Lucius and Marcus Publicius,

during their sedileship ; another to Janus, in the herb-

market, founded by Caius Duillius, the first who by

a naval victory added lustre to the Roman name, and

triumphed over the Carthaginians. The temple of

Hope, vowed by Atilius in the same Punic war, was

dedicated by Germanicus.

L. Meanwhile, the law of violated majesty went

on with increasing fury. A prosecution founded on

that cruel device was set on foot against ApureiaVa-

rilia, descended from a sister of Augustus, and

grand niece to that emperor. She was charged with

speaking defamatory words to the dishonour of Au-

(justus, and uttering sharp invectives against Tiberius

and his mother. Adultery was another head of ac足

cusation : though related to the C*sarian family, she

had, by her licentious conduct, brought disgrace on

that illustrious name. The last article was thrown

