20 [A.U.C. 767 THE ANNALS

" what time so fit as the present, when the new em-

"peror is not yet settled on the throne? Relief may

" now be obtained either by remonstrances, or sword in

hand. By our passive spirit we have suffered enough;

" we. have been slaves in thirty or forty campaigns;

" we are grown gray in the service, worn out with

" infirmities, and covered with wounds. In that con-

" dition we are still condemned to the toils of war.

" Even the men who have obtained their discharge,

" still follow the standard under the name of veterans:

" another word for protracted misery. A few, indeed,

" by their bodily vigour have surmounted all their

"labours; but what is their reward? They are sent

" to distant regions; and, under colour of an allot-

" ment of lands, they are settled on a barren moun-

" tain, or a swampy fen. War of itself is a state of

" the vilest drudgery, without an adequate compen­

sation. The life and limb of a soldier are valued at

" ten pence a day : out of that wretched pittance he

" must find his clothing, his tent equipage, and his

" arms; with that fund, he must bribe the centurion:

"with that, must purchase occasional exemptions

Mjrom service; and, with that, must pay for a remis-

" sion of punishment. But blows and stripes from our

" officers, wounds from the enemy, intense cold in

"winter, and the fatigue of summer-campaigns; de-

" structive war, in which every thing is hazarded,

" and peace, by which nothing is gained, are all the

" soldier's portion.

" For these evils there is but one remedy left.

" Let us fix the conditions of our service: let every

" soldier receive a denarius a day, and at the end of

" sixteen years let him be entitled to his dismission:

" beyond that term no further service. Without de-

" taining any man whatever, and without forcing him

" to follow the colours as a veteran, let every soldier

" receive the arrears that may-be due to him; let him

" be paid in ready money on the spot, and in the very

" camp where he signalized his valour. The prseto-

" rian cohorts receive two denarii for their daily pay;

" at the end of sixteen years they return to their fami-

" lies; and is superior merit the ground of this dis­

