A. D. 19.] 135 OF TACITUS.

sixth legion deserted to him with his standard. Sen-

tius resolved to carry the place by assault. The sig­

nal for the charge was given; scaling ladders were

advanced to the walls; the foremost in courage began

to mount to the top of the work; while an incessant

volley of darts, and stones, and flaming brands, was

poured in upon the garrison. Piso desired to capitu­

late. He offered to lay down his arms, upon condi­

tion that he should remain in the castle till the em­

peror's pleasure touching the government of the pro­

vince should be finally declared. The proposition

was rejected. Sentius allowed him safe conduct to

Italy, and shipping for his passage: no other terms

were granted.

LXXXII. The indisposition of Germanicus was

known at Rome some time before his death. The

news, like all distant intelligence, increased every

moment, and bad was made worse by exaggeration.

Grief and loud complaints filled every quarter of the

city. " Was it for this, that Germanicus was sent to

" distant regions ? For this, was the province of Sy-

" ria assigned to Piso ? This is the consequence of

"private interviews between Livia and Plancina!

" When Drusus, the father of Germanicus, died, it

" was observed by men of reflection, and observed

" with truth, that if the son of a despotic prince is the

" friend of civil liberty, his father never forgives his

" virtues. It was for this that Drusus and Gormani-

" cus were snatched away from the Roman people.

" They intended to restore the old constitution, and

" they perished in the cause." Such were the senti­

ments that prevailed at Rome. The fatal news at

length arrived. In that moment the passions of men

knew no bounds. Without waiting for an edict of

the magistrates, or a decree of the senate, a cessation

of all business took place; the courts of justice were

deserted ; houses were shut up; shrieks and' groans

burst out, and at intervals a deep and awful silence

followed.

A general mourning covered the face of the city.

The exterior forms of grief were observed, but the an­

guish of the heart surpassed all outward show. It

