120 [A.U.C.772. THE ANNALS

the conduct of Publius Scipio, who, we are told, did

the same in Sicily, while Rome was still convulsed by

the distractions of the Punic war. Tiberius, as soon

as he received advices from Egypt, condemned this

affectation of foreign manners, but without asperity.

Another point appeared to him of greater moment.

Arrfong the rules established by Augustus, it was a

maxim of state policy, that Egypt should be consider­

ed as forbidden ground, which neither the senators,

nor the Roman knights, should presume to tread,

without the express permission of the prince. This

was, no doubt, a wise precaution. It was seen that,

whoe v er made himself master of Alexandria, with the

strong holds, which by sea and land were the keys of

the whole province, might, with a small force, make

head against the power of Rome, and, by blocking up

that plentiful cor n country, reduce all Italy to a fa­

mine. Gcrmanicus, without authority, had entered

Alexandria ; and this, to the jealous temper of Tibe­

rius, was little short of a state crime.

LX. Meanwhile, Germanicus, little suspecting ^hat

he had incurred the emperor's displeasure, determined

to sail up the Nile. He set out from Canopus, a city

built by the Spartans, in memory of a pilot of that

name, who was buried on the spot, at the time when

Menelaus, on his return from Troy, was driven by

adverse winds on the coast of Libya. From Canopus,

the next place of note was a mouth of the river dedi­

cated to Hercules, who was born, as the inhabitants

contend, in that country. He was, according to

them, the first of the heroic line; and his name, being

made another term for virtue, was by the voice of

succeeding ages bestowed on all who emulated the

example of the Egyptian worthy. Germanicus pro­

ceeded to the magnificent ruins of the city of Thebes,

where still was to be seen, on ancient obelisks, a pom­

pous description, in Egyptian characters, of the'

wealth and grandeur of the place. From the account

of an elderly priest, who was desired to interpret the

hieroglyphics of his country, it appeared that Thebes,

at one time, contained within her walls no less than

seven hundred thousand men, capable of bearing arms;

