92 THE ANNALS [A.U.C. 769.

rator. Rome had no other enemies. The laurel

crown must be gained in that quarter of the world.

Germanicus saw through these pretences. The object,

he knew, was to stop him in the full career of fame:

with regret he resigned the command, and returned

to Rome.

XXVII. About this time, Libo Drusus, descended

from the Scribonian family, was accused of a conspi­

racy against the state. The history of this transaction

in all its stages, its rise, its progress, and its final issue,

shall be here laid open. The detail will not be unin­

teresting; since we are now arrived at that black

period, which engendered that race of men, who, for

a series of years, were the scourge and pest of so­

ciety. Libo owed his ruin to his intimacy with Fir-

mius Catus, a member of the senate. Catus saw in

his friend, besides the impetuosity of youth, a cast of

mind susceptible of vain illusions and superstitious

credulity. He saw that the judicial astrology of the

Chaldseans, the mysteries of the Magi, and the inter­

preters of dneams, would be sure to make their im­

pression on a wild and distempered imagination. In

such a mind the flame of ambition might be easily

kindled. With that intent, he urged the dignity of

Libo's ancestors: Pompey was his great grand-father; -

Scribonia, once the wife of Augustus, was his aunt;

the two young Csesars were his relations; and his

house was crowded with images, that displayed an

illustrious line of ancestors. Havmg thus inflamed

his pride, he contrived to engage the young man in a

course of luxury, and, by consequence, to involve

him in a load of debt. He watched him closely in the

hour of wild profusion, and in the scenes of distress

that followed; affecting with tender regard to be his

constant companion, yet lying in wait for evidence;

and playing the part of a friend, to be at last a per­

nicious enemy.

XXVIII. Having procured a competent number of

witnesses, and among them such of the slaves as knew

their master's course of life, Catus demanded an au­

dience of the emperor. By the means of Flaccus

Vescularious, a Roman knight, much in the conn­

