A. D. 14.] QF TACITUS.

was to issue out of the treasury. The tribunes were

allowed to preside in the Circus, dressed in trium­

phal robes, but the pomp of splendid chariots was ex­

pressly denied. The annual celebration of those

games was afterwards transferred, from the tribunes,

to that particular prator who has jurisdiction in all

causes between strangers and the citizens of Kome.

XVI. Such was the situation of affairs at Rome,

when a fierce and violent mutiny broke out among

the legions in Pannonia. For this insurrection there

was no other motive than the licentious spirit, which

is apt to show itself in the beginning of a new reign,

and the hope of private advantage in the distractions

of a civil war. A summer-camp had been formed

for three legions, under the command of Julius Blse-

sus. The death of Augustus, and the accession of

Tiberius, being known to the army, the general

granted a suspension of military duty, as an interval

of grief or joy. The soldiers grew wanton in idle­

ness; dissensions spread amongst them; the vile and

profligate had their circular audiences; sloth and

pleasure prevailed; and all were willing to exchange

a life of toil and discipline, for repose and luxury.

There happened to be in the camp a busy incendiary,

by name Percennius, formerly a leader of theatrical

factions, and'ribw a common soldier; a man fluent in

words, and by his early habits versed in tho art of

exciting tumult and sedition. Over the weak and ig­

norant, and such as felt their minds alarmed with

doubts and fears about the future condition of the

service, this pragmatical follow began to exert his in­

fluence. In the 'dead of night he mixed in cabals;

and never failed at the close of day, when the sober

and well disposed retired to their tents, to draw to­

gether the idle and most abandoned. Having gained

a number of proselytes, he stood forth the orator of

sedition, and harangued his confederates in the fol­

lowing manner:

XVII. " How long, my fellow soldiers, must we

"obey a small and despicable set of centurions:1 how

" long continue slaves to a wretched band of military

"tribunes? If we mean to redress our grievances,

