114 THE ANNALS [A. TJ. C. 77t

ample, all military fame was transplanted to other

families, till Camillus, the conqueror of Tacfarinas,

once more revived the glory of his ancestors; but he

did it without their talents. He had seen no service,

nor was he considered as an officer. Tiberius for that

reason was the more lavish in his praise. Triumphal

ornaments were decreed to him by the senate; nor

was he afterwards ruined by his merit. His moder­

ation, and the simplicity of his manners, screened

him from envy. He enjoyed his honours with impu­

nity.

LIII. Tiberius and Germanicus were joint consuls

for the following year; the former for the third time,

and the latter for the second. Germanicus, in this

juncture, was absent from Rome, at the city of Nico-

polis in Achaia. He had passed into Dalmatia, on a

visit to his brother Drusus. From that place he sailed

along the coast of Illyricum; and after a tempestuous

voyage in the Adriatic and the Ionian seas, arrived at

Nocopolis, where he was invested with his new digni­

ty. Hia fleet had suffered, and took some days to refit

for sea. In the mean time he seized the opportunity

to view the Bay of Aetium, rendered famous by the

great naval victory at that place. He saw the tro­

phies consecrated by Augustus, and the lines of Marc

Antony's camp. To him, who was grand-nephew to

Augustus, and grandson to Marc Antony, the scene

was interesting. Every object reminded him of his

ancestors; and every circumstance awakened those

tender sensations, in which the heart unites regret

and pleasure. From Nicopolis he proceeded to Athens.

In that city, the seat of valour and Of literature, and

for many years in alliance with Rome, he showed his

respect for the inhabitants by appearing without

pomp, attended only by a single lictor. The Greeks

exhausted their invention to do him honour: inge­

nious in the arts of flattery, they took care to blend

with their compliments frequent mention of the re­

nowned exploits and memorable sayings of their an­

cestors ; and thus, by enhancing their own merit, they

thought they gave refinement, and even value, to

adulation.

