B THE ANNALS

At this time Germanicus, the immediate descend­

ant of Drusus, was appointed to the command of

eight legions on the Rhine. By the emperor's direc­

tions Tiberius adopted him as his son, though he

had then issue of his own growing up to manhood.

The policy, no doubt, was to guard the succession,

with additional securities. Augustus, in that juncture,

had no war upon his hands, that in Germany except­

ed ; which was carried on, not with a view to exten­

sion of empire, or any solid advantage, but solely to'

expiate the disgrace incurred by the loss of Varus

and his legions. A perfect calm prevailed at Rome:

the magistrates, retained their ancient names; the

younger part of .the community were born since the

battle of Actium, and the old during the civil wars:

how many were then living who had seen the con­

stitution of their country? m

IV. The government thus overthrown, nothing re­

mained of ancient manners, or ancient spirit. Of in­

dependence, or the equal condition of Roman citizens,

no trace was left. All ranks submitted to the will of

the prince, little solicitous about the present hour;

while Augustus, in the vigour of health, maintained

at once his own dignity, the honour of his house, and

the public tranquillity. In process of time, when

worn with age, and failing under bodily infirmities,

he seemed to approach the last act, a new scene pre­

sented itself to the hopes of men. Some amused them­

selves with ideas of ancient liberty, many dreaded the

horrors of a civil war, and others wished for public

commotion; the greater part discussed, with a variety

of opinions, the character of the new masters at that

moment impending over the state. " Agrippa was

" rude and savage ; disgrace added to his natural fe-

" rocity; and in point of age and experience, he was

" by no means equal to the weight of empire. Tibe-

" rius was matured by years; he had gained a reputa-

" tion in war, but the pride of the Claudian family

" was inveterate in his nature, and his inbred cruelty,

"however suppressed with art, announced itself in

" various shapes. Trained up in the imperial house,

"in the very bosom of despotism, Jie had been inured

i

