A. D. 16.] 95 OF TACITUS.

tbority, forced their way into the vestibule, deter­

mined to make themselves heard and seen by the

family. The prisoner was then at table, intending to

make an elegant banquet the last pleasure of his life;

but a mind in agony could relish nothing. Dis­

tracted, terrified, he called on his servants to despatch

him; he laid hold of his slaves, and endeavoured to

force a sword into their hands. The servants in agi­

tation, made an effort to escape, and, in the struggle,

overturned the light that stood upon the table. This

to Libo was funereal darkness: he seized the moment,

and gave himself two mortal stabs. His groans

alarmed the freedmen, who crowded round their mas­

ter. The soldiers followed; and seeing him at the

point of death, had the decency to withdraw. The

prosecution, however, did not die with the unfortu­

nate victim. It was resumed in the senate with un-

abating,severity. Tiberius made an end of the busi­

ness, by declaring that, if the criminal had not done

justice on himself, he intended, notwithstanding the

manifest proof of his guilt, to have recommended him

to the mercy of the fathers.

XXXII. The estate of the deceased was divided

among the informers. Such of them as were of sena-

torian rank were promoted to the prsetorship, without

the form of an election. Various motions were made

in the senate: Cotfa Messalinus proposed that the

image of Libo should not be carried in the funeral

processions of his kindred; Cneius Lentulus, that the

surname of Drusus should be no longer assumed by

the Scribonian family. On the motion of Pomponius

Flaccus, days of public thanksgiving were voted; and

gifts were ordered to be presented to Jupiter, Mars,

and Concord, at the desire of Lucius Puppius, Asinius

Gallus, Papius Mutilus, and Lucius Apronius.- It

was further decreed, that the ides of September, the

day on which Libo despatched himself, should be ob­

served as a festival. Of these resolutions, and their

several authors, I have thought proper to record the

memory, that adulation may be branded to all poste­

rity, and that men may mark how long a servile

spirit has been the canker of the commonwealth.

