130 THE ANNALS rA.U.C.772.!

f

|

life, the graces of his person, the manner of his death,

and the small distance between the places where both '

expired, gave room for the comparison. Both, it was

observed, were of a comely form; both of illustrious

birth; neither of them much exceeding the thirtieth

year of his age; and both died in a foreign land, cut

off by domestic treachery. But Germanicus had

qualities peculiar to himself: he was mild and gra­

cious to his friends, in his pleasures temperate, an

affectionate husband, and by one wife the father of a

numerous issue. Nor was his military character any

way inferior: he had the bravery of Alexander, with­

out his rashness; and, if he had not been recalled from

Germany, where he gained so many signal victories,

the entire conquest of that country had crowned his

operations with immortal glory. The power of the

state was never in his hands. Had he possessed the

sole authority, with the royal title, and the preroga­

tive of a prince, the progress of his arms would have

made him equal to the conqueror of Darius; while,,

on the side of virtue, his clemency, his moderation,

his temperance, and other amiable qualities, gave him

a decided superiority. The body lay in state in the

forum at Antioch, where the funeral ceremony was

' performed. Whether any symptoms of poison were

discovered, is uncertain. The people were divided

into opposite parties, and their opinions varied ac­

cordingly. Some lamented a deceased prince, and, in

minds so prepossessed, suspicion amounted to proof;

others warped into the interests of Piso; and all pro­

nounced according to the bias of their inclinations.

LXXIV. In this juncture, who was the fit person

to govern the province', became the subject of debate.

A council for this purpose was held by the comman­

ders of the legions, and all of senatorian rank, then

on the spot. A number of candidates appeared. Af­

ter a short struggle, the contest lay between Vibius

Marsus and Cneius Sentius. The question hung for

some time in suspense. Marsus at length withdrew

his pretensions; willing to yield to a senior officer,

who showed himself ambitious of the honour. The

first step of the new governor was to send to Rome a

