106 [A. U. C. 770. THE ANNALS

XLIII. This state of affairs, and the commotions in

Armenia, which have been already mentioned, Tibe­

rius laid before the senate. His conclusion was, that

to settle the troubles of the east, recourse must be had

to the wisdom of Germanicus. As to himself, he was

now in the vale of years, and Dnisus had neither ma­

turity of age nor experience. The provinces beyond

the Mediterranean were, by a decree of the senate,

committed to Germanicus. He was made commander^

in chief, with supreme authority, wherever he went,

over all other governors, whether appointed by lot,

or the will of the prince. At that time Creticus Silanus

was the governor of Syria. Ho had promised his

daughter in marriage to Nero, the eldest son of Ger­

manicus. For that reason Tiberius recalled him from

the province, and in his place appointed Cneius Piso,

a man of violent passions, impatient of control, and

fierce with all the spirit of his father, that famous re­

publican, who in the civil wars took up arms, against

Julius Csesar, and rekindled the flame in Africa.

After that exploit he followed the fortunes of Bru­

tus and Cassius. Being at length restored to hii

country, he disdained all public offices, till Augustus

prevailed upon him to accept of the consulship. To

the pride derived from such a father, the son united

the insolence of wealth, acquired by his marriage with

Plancina, who, besides her high descent, possessed

immoderate riches. Proud of that connexion, Piso

thought himself scarcely second to Tiberius. The

emperor's sons were beneath his rank. The govern­

ment of Syria, he made no'doubt, was given to him,

as a bar to the hopes of Germanicus. For this pur­

pose secret instructions were at the time said to have

been given to him by Tiberius. Plancina, it is certain,

had her lesson from Livia, with full instruction, to

mortify the pride of Agrippina with all the arts of fe­

male emulation.

The court of Tiberius, divided between Drusus and

Germanicus, was a scene of domestic faction. The

emperor, as was natural, gave the preference to his

own immediate issue; but the preference had no other

effect than that of attaching the friends of Germani­

