90 THE ANNALS [A. V. C. 769.

jection, returned a considerable number, whom they

had ransomed from their maritime neighbours. Some

were thrown on the coast of Britain, and there re­

leased by the petty princes of the country. According

to the distance from which the men returned, the ac­

count of their perils was swelled with marvellous ad­

ventures; they talked of hurricanes and birds, unheard

of before; of sea-monsters and ambiguous forms,

partly man, and partly fish; things either seen, or else

the coinage of imaginations crazed with fear.

XXV. The news of these disasters spreading far

and wide, the Germans began to think of renewing

the war. Nor was Germanicus less active to coun­

teract their designs. He despatched Caius Silius

with thirty thousand foot, and three thousand horse,

to make war on the Cattians; and, in the mean time

marched himself, at the head of a greater force, to

invade the Marsians. Malovendus, the chief of that

nation, had lately surrendered to the protection of

Rome. From him intelligence was gained, that the

eagle of one of the legions commanded by Varus, lay

in a trench covered with earth, in a neighbouring

grove, and the guard stationed there could make but

•a feeble resistance. Two parties were sent forward

without delay; one to attack the enemy in front, and

draw them from their post; the other to enter the

wood in the rear, and recover the eagle. Success at­

tended both expeditions. Germanicus now resolved

to penetrate into the heart of the country; he carried

destruction wherever he marched, the enemy in every

direction flying before him, or if any where they

made a stand, either routed or put to the sword. Ac­

cording to the account brought in by the prisoners, a

more general panic was never known. All agreed

that the Romans rose superior to adversity; a race

of men not to be subdued. Their fleet destroyed,

their arms lost in the deep, the coast of Germany co­

vered with the dead bodies of men and horses; and

yet, said the astonished Germans, they return undis­

mayed, and with their former ferocity renew the

charge, as if calamity increased their numbers.

XXVI. The Romans marched into winter quarters,

