A. D. 17.] 113 OF TACITUS.

farinas, had served in the Roman camp among the

auxiliary troops. He deserted afterwards, and col­

lected together a body of freebooters, accustomed to

live by rapine, and by consequence addicted to a life

of warfare. Tacfarinas had acquired some rudiments

of military discipline. He formed his, rash levied

numbers into companies of foot and squadrons of

horse. Having drawn over to his party the Musula-

nians, a nation bordering on the wilds of Africa,

where they led a roving life, without towns, or fixed

habitations, he was no longer the chief of a band of

robbers, but with a higher title, the general of a peo­

ple. The neighbouring Moors, a race of savages,

under the command of Mazippa, jqined the confe­

deracy. The two chiefs agreed to divide their troops

into two separate bodies. Tacfarinas, with the flower

of the army formed a regular camp, arming his men

after the Roman manner, and training them to the

art of war; while Mazippa, at the head of his light-

armed freebooters, ravaged the country, and marked

his way with fire and sword. The Cinithians, a na­

tion by no means contemptible, were forced to enter

into the league.

At length, Furius Camillus, proconsul of Africay

advanced to check the insurgents, at the head of a

legion, and such of the allies as still remained under

his command. With this handful of men, a slender

force when compared to the numbers of the Moors

and Numidians, the Roman general determined to

hazard a decisive action. His chief care was, not to

strike the enemy with terror. Their fears, he knew,

would make them avoid an action, and protract the

wax. The barbarians hoped to gain an easy victory,

and by their hopes were led on to their destruction.

Camillus drew up in order of battle. His legion form­

ed the centre : in the wings were stationed the light

cohorts, and two squadrons of horse. Nor did Tac­

farinas decline the conflict. He engaged, and was to­

tally routed. By this victory the name of Camillus,

after an interval of many years, seemed to retrieve its

ancient honours. From him, who was the deliverer

of Rome, and his son, who emulated the father's exr

K 2

