A. D. 14.] 29 OF TACITUS.

dispose his father to listen to their petition. The sol­

diers answered in humble terms: at their request,

the younger BUesus, mentioned above, with Lucius,

Apronius, a Roman knight in the train of Drusus,

and Justus Catonius, a centurion of the first rank,

were despatched as the delegates of the army. In

the councils afterwards held by Drusus, various

opinions were entertained, and different measures pro­

posed. To wait the return of the deputies, and mean­

while to win the affections of the men by moderation,

was the advice of many. Others were for immediate

coercion: " Lenity, they said, makes no impression

"on the vulgar mind. The common men, when not

"kept in subjection, are fierce and turbulent; yet ever

"ready to crouch and bend under proper authority.

" It was now the time, while they were overwhelmed

"with superstition, to infuse another fear, and teach

"them to respect their general. Tho authors of

"the late sedition ought to be made a public ex-

" ample." Drusus, by the bent of his nature prone

to vindictive measures, dosired that Percennius and

Vibulenus might be brought before him. By his

orders they were put to death; according to some

writers, in his own tent, and there buried; according

to others, their bodies were thrown over the intrench-

ments, a spectacle for public view.

XXX. Diligent search was made for the, most ac­

tive incendiaries: Some were found roving on the

outside of the lines, and instantly cut off by the cen­

turions, or the prsetorian soldiers. Others were de­

livered up to justice by their respective companies,

as an earnest of their own conversion. The rigour

of the winter, which set in earlier than usual, added

to the afflictions of the army. Heavy rains ensued;

and fell with such violence, that the men could not

venture from their tents. To meet in parties, and

converse with their comrades, was impossible. The

colours, borne down by torrents that rushed through

the camp, were with difficulty secured. Superstition

still continued to fill the mind with terror. In every

thing that happened, imagination saw the anger of

the gods: it was not without reason that the planets

C2

