A. D. 16.J OF TACITUS.

had the misfortune of being upon bad terms with the

emperor, who, during his residence in the Isle of

Rhodes, had taken umbrage at the king's behaviour,

and from that moment harboured the deepest resent­

ment. Archelaus, it is true, had shown him no

mark of respect; but that inattention did not originate

in pride or arrogance. It was the conduct recom­

mended by the confidential friends of Augustus, at a

time when Caius Csesar, flourishing in favour, was

sent to arrange the affairs of the east. In that junc­

ture, to court the friendship of Tiberius would have

been highly impolitic.

After the failure bf the Csesarian line, and the ele­

vation of Tiberius, letters to the eastern prince were

despatched from the emperor's mother, avowing her

son's resentment, but offering an entire remission of

past offences, provided he came in person to solicit

his pardon. Archelaus did not perceive the intended

treachery; or; perceiving it, thought it prudent to dis­

semble. He risqued a journey to Rome.

Tiberius received him with pride and sullen aver­

sion. The king of Cappadocia was arraigned before

the senate; and though [he charge was without

foundation, a royal mind, not used to acknowledge an

equal, much less to bend to the humiliating condition

of a state-criminal, was naturally pierced to the quick.

Worn out with grief, and drooping under the infirmi­

ties of age, the unhappy monarch died of a broken

heart, or perhaps fell by his own hand. His kingdom

was reduced to a Roman province. With this new

source of wealth, Tiberius declared himself able to di­

minish the tax of the hundredth penny,and accordingly

changed it to the two-hundredth. About this time

died Antiochus and Philopater; the former king of

Commagena, and the latter of Cilicia. By their deaths

their kingdoms were thrown into violent convulsions.

Two factions were at variance; one, which formed a

largo majority, was willing to submit to the govern­

ment of Rome; the other contended for the independ­

ence of their monarchy. In the same juncture the

provinces of Syria and Judsea prayed to be relieved

from the burden of oppressive taxes.

