A.D. 16.1 103 OF TACITUS.

leaving his fame behind him, or flying before it, to

prepossess the people in some new quarter.

XL. The miraculous escape of Agrippa was cur­

rently reported all over Italy. At Rome the story

was believed. The impostor landed at Ostia, amidst

the acclamations of the rabble. Clandestine meet­

ings were held in the capital. Tiberius was thrown

into the utmost perplexity. Should he call forth his

soldiers to subdue a slave? Were it not more ad­

visable to leave the rumour to its own futility ? On a

sudden he was bent on vigorous measures, and no­

thing was to be slighted: he wavered, fluctuated, and

to act with coolness seemed more advisable; to be

alarmed at trifles was unworthy of the prince. The

resolution of one moment gave way to the whim of

the next, and pride and fear alternately distracted

him. He resolved, and decided nothing. Weary of

himself, he left the whole to Salluslius Crispius.

That minister sent two of his creatures (some say,

two soldiers) to join the fictitious Agrippa, as men de­

voted to his cause: he gave them full instructions to

supply him with money, and profess thomselves ready

• in his'service, to encounter every danger. The men

acted their parts; and, in the dead of night, seizing

their opportunity, fell with a strong party upon the

adventurer. Having seized his person, they dragged

him in fetters, with a gag in his mouth, to the impe­

rial palace. Being there interrogated by Tiberius,

" how he came to be Agrippa," he is said to have an­

swered, " as you came to be Csesar." With undaunt­

ed resolution he refused to discover his accomplices.

Tiberius, not choosing to hazard a public execution,

ordered him to be put to death in a sequestered part

of the palace. The body was privately conveyed

away; and though at the time there was reason to

believe that many of the emperor's household, and

even several of the Roman knights and senators, as­

sisted the impostor with their advice and money, th»

affair was dropt without further inquiry.

XLI. Towards the end of the year, a triumphal

arch was erected, near the Temple of Saturn, in me­

mory of the Varian eagles retaken under the conduct

