112 THE ANNALS [A.U.C.770.

out of the case, as a matter within the provisions of

the Julian law. With regard to her calumnious lan­

guage, Tiberius desired that a distinction might be ,'

made. If it appeared in proof, that she had spoken

irreverently of Augustus, the law he said, should take

its course ; but personalities levelled at himself might

pass with impunity. A question was put by the conr

sul touching tho liberties taken with the emperor's

mother. Tiberius made no reply. At the nexi

meeting of the senate he informed the fathers that

words affecting Livia were, by her own desire, never

to be imputed as a crime. Varilia was acquitted on

the law of majesty. With regard to the charge of

adultery, Tiberius requested the fathers to soften the

rigour of their sentence. In conformity to ancient

practice, he was of opinion, that the relations of the

offender might remove her to the distance of two hun­

dred miles from Rome. This mode of punishment was

adopted. Manlius, her paramour, was banished from

Italy and Africa.

LI. The office of prator becoming vacant by the

death of Vipsanius Gallus, the appointment of a suc­

cessor gave occasion to a warm and eager contest.

Haterius Agrippa, nearly related to Germanicus, was

declared a candidate. Drusus and Germanicus, both

still at Rome, espoused his interest. It was, however,

a settled rule, that the person who had the greatest

number of children should be deemed to have the su­

perior title. From this line of decision many of the

lathers were unwilling to depart. Tiberius saw with

inward satisfaction the senate wavering between tho

law and the wishes of his sons. The law as may be

imagined, proved'too feeble. The two princes car­

ried the question, though not without a strong con­

tention, and by a small majority. This, however,

was no more than what often happened in better

times, when laws were still in force, but had to strug­

gle with power, and were often obliged to yield to

superior interest.

L1I. By the spirit of a bold and daring adventurer,

a war was this year kindled up in Africa. This man,

a Numidian by birth, and known by the name of Tac­

