A. D. 20.] 147 OF TACITUS.

* in the administration of the eastern provinces.  
" 'Whether in that station, he had made it his business,

" by arrogance and by a contentious spirit to exas-

" perate the prince ; whether he rejoiced at his death;

" and, above all, whether he was accessary to it; were

" questions that called for a strict but fair inquiry.

" If he, who was only second in command, exceeded

" the limits of his commission, regardless of the duty

" which he owed to his superior officer;, if he beheld

« the death of Germanicus, and the loss which I have

" suffered, with unnatural, with fell delight; from that

" moment he becomes the object of my fixed aver-

" sion; I forbid him to enter my palace; he is my

" own personal enemy. But the emperor must not

" revenge the private quarrels of Tiberius. Should

" murder be brought home to him, a crime of that

" magnitude, which in the cause of the meanest citi-

" zen calls aloud for vengeance, is not to be forgiven;

"it will be yours, conscript fathers, to administer con-

" solation to the children of Germanicus; it will be

" yours to assuage the sorrows of an afflicted father,

" and a grandmother overwhelmed with grief.

" In the course of the inquiry, it will be material

" to know whether Piso endeavoured, with a seditious

" spirit, to incite the army to a revolt. Did he try

" by sinister arts to seduce the affections of the sol-

" diers ? Was his sword drawn to recover possession

K of the province ? Are these things true, or are they

" the mere suggestions of the prosecutors with intent

"to aggravate the charge? Their zeal, it must be

* owned, has been intemperate. By laying the body  
" naked at Antioch, and exposing it to public view,

" what good end could be.answered? Why were fo-

" rejgn nations alarmed with a report of poison, when

" the fact is still problematical, and remains to be

"tried? J lament the loss of my son, and shall ever

" lament it; but, notwithstanding all my feelings, it is

" competent to the defendant to repel the charge; he

" is at liberty to bring forward whatever may tend t»

" establish his innocence, and even to arraign the

" conduct of Germanicus, if any blame can be im-

"puted to him. It is not for me to abridge any part

