"in which the Roman people saw, with unshaken

" constancy, the loss of their generals, the overthrow

" of their armies, and the destruction of the noblest

" families. Whatever maybe the fate of noble fami,

" lies, the commonwealth is immortal. Let all resume

"their former occupations; and, since the Magalen-

" sian games were near at handvlet the diversions of

" the season assuage the general sorrow."

VII. The vacation from public business was now

concluded. The people returned to their ordinary

functions, and Drusus set out for tho army in Illyri-

cum. At Rome, in the mean time, all were impatient

to see Piso brought to justice. That an offender of

such magnitude should be suffered to roam at large

through the delightful regions of Asia and Achaia,

roused the general indignation. By such contumacy

the law was eluded, and the evidence was growing

weaker every day. The fact was, Martina, that no­

torious dealer in poison, whom Sentius, as has been

mentioned, ordered to be conveyed to Rome, died

suddenly at Brundusium. Poison is said to have

been found in the tangles of her hair, but no trace of

suicide appeared on any part of her body.

VIII. Piso, taking his measures in time, sent his

son to Rome with instructions to prepossess the em­

peror in his favour. He went himself to seek an in­

terview with Drusus; persuaded that he should find

the prince not so much exasperated at the loss of a

brother, as pleased with an event that delivered him

from a rival. The son arrived at Rome. Tiberius,

to show that nothing was prejudged, gave the youth

a gracious reception; adding the presents usually be­

stowed on persons of rank on their return from the

provinces. Drusus saw the elder Piso, and frankly

told him, that if what was rumoured abroad appeared

to be founded in truth, the charge demanded his

keenest resentment; but he rather hoped to find the

whole unsupported by proof, that no man might de­

serve to suffer for the death of Germanicus. This

answer was given in public; no private audience was

admitted. The prince, it was generally believed, had

his lesson from Tiberius; it being improbable that a

