74 THE ANNALS [A. U. C. 769.

they repented of their choice, and saw, with regTet,

the disgrace which their tame submission had brought:

upon their country. "The Parthians," they said,

" were a degenerate race, who meanly stooped to sue i

" in another world, and invited to reign over them an |

" exotic king, trained up by the Romans, fraught with

" their maxims, and tainted by their manners. The

" kingdom of the Arsacides was at length reduced to

" a Roman province, to be dealt out at the pleasure

" of the emperor. Where now the glory of those

" gallant heroes who put Crassus to death, and made

" Marc Antony fly before them? The slave of Ccesar,

" who crouched so many years in bondage, gives the

" law to the Parthians." Such were the prejudices

of the people. The conduct of Vonones inflamed their

indignation. He renounced the manners of his coun­

try ; was rarely seen in the sports of the chase ; he

took'no delight in horsemanship, and in his progress

through the kingdom lolled at ease in a litter. He

disdained, with fastidious pride, to have his table

served agreeably to the national taste; his train of

Greek attendants gave disgust; and the paltry atten­

tion, that secured the most trifling articles under a

seal, excited the contempt and ridicule of the people.

To be easy of access, was want of dignity; and

courteous manners degraded the prince. Virtues new

to the Parthians were new vices. Between his good

and evil qualities no distinction was made: they were

foreign manners, and for that reason detested.

III. In this disposition of the,public mind, the crown

was offered to Artabanus, a descendant of Arsaces,

educated among the Dahi. This prince, after a de­

feat in his first engagement, reinforced his army, and

gained possession of the crown. Vonones fled to Ar­

menia, where, in that juncture, the throne was va­

cant; but an irresolute and wavering people could

form no settled plan. They turned their thoughts first ,

to Rome, and next to the Parthians, acting with al­

ternate treachery to both. The insidious conduct of

Marc Antony, who allured their king Artavasdes to

his friendship, then loaded him with chains, and

basely murdered him, was fresh in thoir minds. Ar-

