164 [A. U. C. 774. TIIE ANNALS

ceed to the ardour of affection, and both begin to

wean themselves from each other; the prince, when

the power of giving is exhausted; and the minister,

when avarice has no more to crave.

XXXI. The year, which we are now to open, stands

distinguished by the joint consulship of the father and

the son; Tiberius, for the fourth time, and Drusus,

the second. It is true that, two years before, Ger-

manicus shared the same honour; but their union

was not founded in sincerity and mutual esteem.

Throughout that year Tiberius beheld his colleague

with a malignant eye. The tie of affinity between

them was not so close as the present. Tiberius had

scarce entered on the office in conjunction with Dru-

sus, when, pretending to recruit his health, he remo­

ved into Campania, perhaps even then meditating

that long retreat, which was afterwards his plan of

life; perhaps, intending to give Drusus the honour of

discharging the consular functions, without the assist­

ance of his father. An incident soon occurred, in

itself of little moment, but by the heat of party it kin­

dled to a flame, and afforded to the young consul an

opportunity to gain the popular esteem. A complaint

was made to the senate by Domitius Corbulo, for­

merly one of the praters, stating that Lucius Sylla, a

youth of illustrious rank, had refused, in a late show

of gladiators, to give place to his superior in point of

years. The grave and elderly were on the side of

Corbulo. They saw the rights of age infringed, and

the example of ancient manners treated with contempt.

Mamercus Scaurus and Lucius Arruntius undertook

the defence of Sylla, and with the rest of his relations

formed a party in his favour. A warm debate ensued.

The practice of good times was stated, and several

decrees, enforcing the reverence due to age, were

cited as decisi'e authority. Drusus, by a qualifying

speech, allayed the ferment. Corbulo declared him­

self satisfied by the apology made by Mamercus

Scaurus, who was uncle as well as father-in-law to

Sylla, and, besides, the most eloquent orator of his

# time. That business being thus amicably settled, the

state of the public roads was made the subject of de^

