A. D. 14.] OF TACITUS. 33

for her husband softened her fiercer passions, and

gave a tincture of delicacy to that haughty spirit

which nothing could subdue.

XXXIV. Germanicus was now advanced nearer to

the imperial dignity; but his zeal for Tiberius rose in

proportion. He required from the Sequanians and the

Belgic states the oath of fidelity to the emperor; and

being informed of the commotions that distracted the

army, he set forward, without delay, to appease the

tumult. The legions met him on the outside of the

intrenchments, with downcast eyes, and all the exter­

nal symptoms of repentance. He was, however, no

sooner within the lines, than the camp resounded with

groans and bitter lamentations. Some laid hold of

the prince's hand, as if going to kiss it; but inserting

his fingers in their mouths, made him feel their bone­

less gums, complaining that they had lost their teeth

in the service: others showed their bodies bent with

age, and drooping under a load of infirmities. A tu­

multuous crowd gathered round the tribunal: Ger­

manicus ordered them to form in their respective

companies, that the men might more distinctly hear

his answer; and, to distinguish the cohorts, he di­

rected the standards to bo ranged in proper order.

The soldiers obeyed, but with reluctance. Germani­

cus opened with the panegyric of Augustus; he pro­

ceeded to the victories and triumphs obtained by Ti­

berius, insisting chiefly on his exploits in Germany,

at the head of those very legions, ^he succession,

he observed, was quietly settled: Italy consented,

both the Gauls remained in their duty, and peace

prevailed in every part of the empire.

XXXV. Thus far Germanicus was. heard with si­

lence, or at worst with a low and hollow murmur. He

made a transition to the present disturbances:" Where

"is now the sense of military duty? Where that an-

"cient discipline, the boast and honour of the Roman

"armies? Whither have you driven the tribunes?

"Where are the centurions?" At these words, the

whole multitude, as if with one instinct, threw off their

clothes, exposing their bodies seamed with wounds

from the enemy, and with lashes from the centurion.

