A. D. 14.] OF TACITUS. 47

country, fifty miles round, was laid waste with fire

and sword ; no compassion for sex or age; no dis­

tinction of places, holy or profane ; nothing was sa­

cred. In the general ruin the Temple of Tanfan,

which was held by the inhabitants in the highest ve­

neration, was levelled to the ground. Dreadful as the

slaughter was, it did not cost a drop of Roman blood.

Not so much as a wound was received. The attack

was made on the barbarians sunk in sleep, dispersed

in flight, unarmed, and incapable of resistance. An

account of the massacre soon reached the Bructe-

rians, the Tubantes, and the Usipetes. Inflamed with

resentment, those nations took up arms; and posting

themselves to advantage, surrounded the woods

through which the Roman army was to pass. Ger-

manicus, informed of their motions, marched in order

of battle. Part of the cavalry, with the light cohorts,

formed the van; the first legion followed, to support

them; the baggage moved in the centre. The left

wing was closed by the twenty-first legion, and the

right by the fifth. The twentieth, with the auxiliaries,

) brought up the rear. The Germans, in close ambush,

waited till the army stretched into the woods. After

skirmishing with the advanced party, and both the

flanks, they fell with their whole strength upon the

rear. The light cohorts, unable to sustain the shock

of a close embodied enemy, were thrown into disor­

der ; when Germanicus, riding at full speed to the

twentieth legion, cried aloud, " The time is come

" when you may efface, by one bravo exploit, the

" guilt of the late sedition ; charge with courage, and

* you gain immortal honour." Roused by this ani­  
mating strain, the legion rushed to the attack, and at

the first onset broke the ranks of the enemy. The

barbarians fled to the open plain: the Romans pur­

sued them with dreadful slaughter. Meanwhile the

van of the army passed the limits of the forest, and

began to throw up intrenchments. From that time

the march was unmolested. The soldiers, flushed

with success, and in the glory of this expedition losing

all memory of former guilt, were sent into winter

quarters.

