A. D. 16.] 101 OP TACITUS.

" come hither in crowds to solicit for their children;

" the public funds may be exhausted, and the craving

" of individuals will remain unsatisfied. To depart

" from the question before the senate, and open new

" matter for the public service, was no doubt the

" practice of our ancestors; but, under that sanction,

" to introduce domestic concerns, with a view to pri-

"vate interest, is an abuse of the privilege, tending

" directly to reduce the senate, as well as the sove-

* reign, to a painful dilemma. Whether we comply,  
" or refuse our consent, either way we encounter pre­

judice. Besides, this mode of petitioning is not a

w modest humble request; it is a demand, brought on

" by surprise, while other business is before us. At

" such a time the petitioner comes, and with the age

M and number of his children assails the passions of this

"assembly: he does more; he makes a sudden tran-

" sition to ourself, and by violence of prayer hopes

" to storm the treasury. But let us remember that, if

* by our profusion we exhaust the public stock, our  
" crimes must replace it. You are not, Hortalus, now

" to learn, that the bounty of Augustus was his own

"voluntary act: he gave you money, but never in-

Mended that you should live a rent-charge upon the

" public. By false compassion we injure the comma-

" nity; industry will go to ruin; sloth will predomi­

nate, men will no longer depend upon themselves;

"but, having from their own conduct nothing to hope

" or fear, they will look to their neighbours for sup-

"port: they will first abandon their duty, and then

" be a burthen on the public."

Such were the reasonings of Tiberius. His speech

was well received by that class of men, who are ever

ready to applaud the vices, no less than the virtues,

of their master: others heard in silence, or at most

with a murmur of disapprobation. Tiberius saw the

impression on the minds of the fathers: he paused,

and added, that what he had said was a reply to

Hortalus; but if the senate judged it proper, he was

willing to give two hundred great sesterces to each

of his sons. The fathers expressed their thinks;

Hortalus made no answer, perhaps through fe&r, or

