10 THE ANNALS [A. U. C. 767.

conducted him to the senate-house; all things an-

, nouriced the sovereign. In his despatches to the army,

he was already the successor of Augustus: he spoke

the style and language of a recognised emperor,

without reserve, and in the tone of power, equivocal

only when he addressed the senate.

The fact was, Tiberius dreaded Germanicus. A

commander in chief, who had so many legions under

his direction, who had formed connexions with the

allies of Rome, and was besides the idol of the people,

might choose to seize the government, rather than

linger in expectation. For this reason the fathers

were to be managed. There was at the bottom ano足

ther motive ; if, in appearance, he owed his elevation,

not to the intrigues of an ambitious mother, or the

adoption of a superannuated emperor, but to the

voice of the, people, it would redound more to hia

glory. The opportunity was also fair, to pry into the

temper and dispositions of the leading senators. The

event showed that his indecision was policy in dis足

guise. He noted the words of men ; he watched their

looks ; warped every circumstance into a crime ; and,

hoarding all in his memory, gathered rancour for a

future day.

VIII. At the first meeting of the senate, the funeral

of Augustus was the only subject of debate. The

emperor's will was brought forward by the vestal

virgins. Tiberius and Livia were declared his heirs.

The latter was adopted into the Julian family, with

the additional title of Augusta. His grand-children

and their issue were next in succession ; in the third

degree he named the nobles of E^me: not indeed from

motives of personal regard, for the greater part had

been for a long time obnoxious; but a bequest so ge足

nerous and magnificent might gain the applause of

future ages. In the rest of his legacies the will was

in the style of a Roman cUizen: if we except the

clauses, whereby he gave to the Roman people four

hundred thousand great sesterces, to the inferior com足

monalty five-and-thirty thousand, to each prsetorian

soldier one thousand small sesterces, and to every

common man belonging to the legions three hundred,

