A. D. 19.] 13

woman of the name of Martina, well known through

out the province for her practices in the trade (

poisoning, and also for her intimacy with Plancin

This measure was adopted at the request of Vitellii

Veranius, and a number of others, who were th

actually busy in collecting evidence, and in prepari

the charge with as much assiduity, as if the prose­

cution had been already commenced in due form of

law.

LXXV. Meanwhile Agrippina, pierced to the heart

and her health impaired by affliction, resolved, not­

withstanding, to surmount every obstacle that might

retard the hand of justice. She embarked for Italy

with the ashes of Germanicus, and her orphan chil­

dren. All eyes beheld her with compassion; all were

grieved that a woman of the highest distinction, so

lately happy with the best of men, and in the splen­

dour of a court seen with a universal homage, should

undertake a melancholy voyage, with the urn of him

she loved, not sure of a just revenge, alarmed for her­

self, and by the fruitfulness of her marriage bed ex­

posed to calamities yet unknown. Piso was at the

isle of Coos. He there received advice that Germa­

nicus was no more. Transported with joy beyond all

' bounds, he hastened to the temples, and offered victims

as a public thanksgiving. Plancina was still more ex­

travagant: she laid aside her mourning for a deceased

sister, to celebrate in her gayest apparel an event so

grateful to her heart.

' LXXVT. The centurions flocked in crowds to Piso,

assuring him that the legions were devoted to his ser­

vice, and for that reason exhorted him to resume a

command unjustly taken from him. Piso called a

council of his friends: his son, Marcus Piso, was for

his returning to Rome without delay. " What had

"been done, might well be justified: suspicions, un­

supported by proof, would soon evaporate; and

" vague reports were of no moment. The long con­

tention with Germanicus might perhaps be cen­

sured: it was unpopular, but could not amount to

" a crime. Piso had lost his government, and 'by that

* circumstance the rage of his enemies would be ap­  

