104 THK ANNA1S [ A. U. C. 76».

of Germanicus, and the auspices of Tiberius. Seve­

ral other public monuments were dedicated at the

same time; a temple to Fortune, in the gardens on

the banks of the Tiber, which Julius Csesar had be­

queathed to the Roman people; a chapel sacred to the

Julian family; and a statue of Augustus in the sub­

urbs, called Bmillm.

In the consulship of Caius Csecilius and Lucius

Pomponius, Germanicus, on the seventh before the

calends of June, enjoyed the glory of a triumph over

the Cheruscans, the Cattians, the Angrivarians, and

the rest of the nations, extending as far as the Elbe.

The spoils of the conquered, the prisoners of war,

with various pictures of battles, mountains, and rivers,

were displayed with great pomp and splendour. The

war, though the general was not suffered to reap the

full harvest of his glory, was considered by the popu­

lace as entirely finished. Amidst the grandeur of this

magnificent spectacle, nothing appeared so striking

as the graceful person of Germanicus, with his five

children, mounted on the triumphal car. The joy of 4

the multitude was not, however, without a tincture of

melancholy. Men remembered that Drusus, the father

of Germanicus, was the darling of the people, and

yet proved unfortunate; they called to mind young

Marcellus, blessed with all his country's wishes, yet

prematurely snatched away. It happened, they said,

by some fatality, that whenever a favoured character

was the delight of the Roman people, their affec­

tions ended always in a general mourning.

XLII. Tiberius gave a largess to the populace of

three hundred sesterces to each man, and ordered the

distribution to be made in the name of Germanicus,

at the same time declaring himself his colleague in the

consulship for the ensuing year. These marks of

good will were specious, but by no man thought sin­

cere. He was now resolved to remove the favourite

of the people. This, however, was to be done under

colour of new honours. He framed a pretence, or

took advantage of that which the posture of affairs

presented to him. Archelaus, during a space of fifty

years, had swayed the sceptre of Cappadocia; but

