24 TIIE ANNALS [A. U. C. 767.

" was last night basely murdered by the hand of gla-

" diators whom Blsesus arms for your destruction.

4i Answer me, Blsesus, where have you bestowed the

" body ? The very enemy allows the rites of sepul-

44 ture. When I have washed my brother with the

" tears, and printed kisses on his mangled body, then

" plunge your poniard in this wretched bosom. I shall

" die content, if these my fellow soldiers perform the

" last funeral office, and bury in one grave two

44 wretched victims, who knew no crime but that of

" serving the common interest of the legion."

XXIII. This speech Vibulenus rendered still more

inflammatory by the vehemence of his manner, by

beating his breast, by striking his forehead, and pour­

ing a flood of tears. A way being opened through the

crowd, he leaped from the men's shoulders, and gro­

velling at the feet of individuals, excited the passions

of the multitude to the highest pitch of frenzy. In

their fury some fell upon the gladiators retained by

Blsesus, and loaded them with irons; others seized the

general's domestic train; while numbers dispersed

themselves on every side in quest of the body: and if

it had not been speedily known that no corpse could

be found ; that the slaves of Btesus averred under the

torture that no murder had been committed; and, in

fact, that tho incendiary never had a brother, Blsesus

must have fallen a sacrifice. The tribunes, and the

prsefect of the camp, were obliged to save themselves

by flight. Their baggage was seized and plundered.

Lucilius the centurion was put to death. This man,

by the sarcastic pleasantry of the soldiers, had been

nicknamed give me another; because, in chastising

the soldiers, when one rod was broke, he was used to

call for another, and then another. The rest of

the centurions lay concealed in lurking places. Out

of the whole number Julius Clemens, a man of prompt

and busy talents, was the favourite of the insurgents.

He was spared as a fit person to negociate the claims

of the army. Two of the legions, the eighth and fif­

teenth, were upon the point of coming to the decision

of the sword: the former bent on the destruction of

Sirpicus, a centurion; and the latter determined to

