A. D. 14.] OF TACITUS.

XXVII. The soldiers, in a tumultuous body, rushed

from the tribunal, breathing vengeance, and, where-

ever they met either the men belonging to the prse-

torian bands, or the" friends of Drusus, threatening

violence, in hopes of ending the dispute by a sudden

conflict. Cneius Lentul us, whose age and military cha­

racter gave him considerable weight, was particularly

obnoxious; he was supposed to be the chief adviser

of Drusus, and an enemy to the proceedings of the

army. For the security of his person, he went aside

with Drusus, intending to repair to the winter camp.

The mutineers gathered round him, demanding with

insolence, " which way was he going ? to the senate ?

"perhaps to the emperor? Was he there to show

"himself an enemy to the demands of the legions?"

Nothing could restrain their fury; they discharged a

volley of stones; and one of them taking place, Len-

tulus, wounded and covered with blood, had nothing

to expect but instant death, when the guards that at­

tended Drusus came up in time, and rescued him from

destruction.

XXVIII. The night that followed seemed big with

some fatal disaster, when an unexpected phenomenon

put an end to the commotion. In a clear and serene

sky the moon was suddenly eclipsed. This appear­

ance, in its natural cause not understood by the sol­

diers, was deemed a prognostic denouncing the fate of

the army. The planet, in its languishing state, re­

presented the condition of the legions: if it recovered

its former lustre, the efforts of the men would be

crowned with success. To assist the moon in her

labours, the air resounded with the clangour of brazen

instruments, with the sound of trumpets, and other

warlike music. The crowd, in the mean time, stood

at gaze: every gleam of light inspired the men with

joy; and the sudden gloom depressed their hearts with

grief. The clouds condensed, and the moon was sup­

posed to be lost in utter darkness. A melancholy

horror seized the multitude; and melancholy is sure

to engender superstition. A religious panic spread

through the army. The appearance in the heavens

foretold eternal labour to the legions; and all la.

