1 THE . ,, ,

terwards, when triumpl ' • . . ,

Junius Blsesus, the proconsul or jiinca, numux

made no scruple to declare, that his motive for be­

stowing that high reward, was to pay a compliment

to Sejanus, as the proconsul was his uncle.

LXXIII.I Blsesus, however, had fairly earned his

honours. Tacfarinas, often repulsed, was never de­

feated. He found resources in the interior parts of

Africa, and returned to the conflict with new vigour.

He had at length the arrogance to send an embassy

to Tiberius,/ demanding lands for himself and hia

army, or nothing should make an end of the war. Ti­

berius, it is said, was upon no occasion so little mas­

ter of himself. "It was an insult to the imperial

" majesty, and the Roman name. Shall a deserter,

" a wandering vagabond, presume to treat on equal

"terms? Even Spartacus, though he had defeated

" consular armies, and spread desolation with sword

" and fire through the realms of Italy, was not allow-

" ed to negotiate terms of peace, though the com-

" monwealth, at that time, was well nigh exhausted

" by Sertorius, and the Mithridatic war. Even then

"no compromise was admitted; the dignity of the

" state was saved. And shall a flourishing empire de-

" scer.d so low as to compound with Tacfarinas, and,

" by granting lands, become the purchaser of peace

" at the hands of a freebooter and a robber?" Stung

by these reflections, Tiberius ordered Blsesus to se­

duce the followers of Tacfarinas by promises of a

free pardon to all who should lay down their arms;

but as to their chief, he must strain every nerve to

secure the person of that daring adventurer.

LXXIV. The promised amnesty reduced the num­

bers of the enemy; and Blsesus, adopting a new mode

of war, turned the arts of the wily Numidian against

himself. Unequal to the legions in a pitched battle,

Tacfarinas depended altogether upon the rapidity of

his motions: he divided his men into small parties;

he showed himself in sudden incursions, fled before a

regular force, and knew where to lie in ambush. The

Romans accordingly marched in three columns, by as

