96, [A. U. C. 769. THE ANNALS

The tribe of astrologers and magicians, by a decree

of the senate, was banished out ol Italy. Two of the

number suffered death; namely, Lucius Pituanius, .

and Publius Marcius. The former was thrown head­

long from the Tarpeian rock ; and the latter, by or­

der of the consuls, was executed, at the sound of a

trumpet, on the outside of the Esquiline gate, ac­

cording to the form prescribed by ancient usage.

XXXIII. At the next meeting of the senate, the

luxury of the times became the subject of debate.

The business was introduced by Quintus Haterius,

of consular rank, and Octavius Fronto, who had dis­

charged the office of prater. A law was passed, pro­

hibiting the use of solid gold for the service of the

table; and further enacting, that men should not dis­

grace themselves by the effeminate delicacy of silk

apparel. Fronto took a wider compass. He proposed

that the quantity of silver in every family, the ex­

pense of furniture, and the number of domestics,

should be limited by law. The senators at that time

did not confine themselves to the question depending

before the assembly: but every speaker was at liber­

ty to start new matter, and submit to consideration

whatever he thought conducive to the public good.

Asinius (I alius rose in opposition to the opinion of

Octavius Fronto. " The commonwealth," he said,

" had increased in grandeur, and the wealth of indi-

" viduals grew with the growth of empire. Nor was

" this a modern innovation; the same effect, from the

" same causes, may be traced in the early period of

" the commonwealth. The Fabricii had their private

" wealth, and so had the Scipios, but different in de-

"gree. Wealth, is relative, always in proportion to

" the affluence of the times. When the state was poor,

" frugality was the virtue of a citizen. Does the em-

" piro flourish? Individuals flourish with it. In mat-

"ters of domestic expense, such as plate and retinue,

" the measure of economy or extravagance must be

" determined by the circumstances of the family.

" Nothing is mean, nothing superfluous, but what i»

" made so by the condition of the parties. The for-

" tune of a senator, as settled by law, differs from the

