88 [A. U. C. 769. THE ANNAL8

" subdued the nations between the Rhine and the

"Elbe, dedicates this monument to Mars, to Jupiter,

" and Augustus." Of the commander in chief no

mention was made. To soften envy, he assumed no

part of the praise, content with deserving it. Sterti-

nius marched into the territory of the Angrivarians,

with orders, if they did not submit, to lay the country

waste. The barbarians surrendered at discretion, and

received a general pardon.

XXIII. The summer being now far advanced, Ger-

manicus ordered some of the legions to return by land

to winter quarters; he himself sailed with the rest,

down the river Amisia to the main ocean. The wea­

ther was favourable, and the sea presented a perfeet

calm, unruffled by any motion except what was oc­

casioned by the dashing of the oars, and the rapid

motion of a thousand vessels under sail. But this se­

renity did not last long: the sky was overcast; a storm

of hail burst down with sudden fury; squalls of wind

drove the billows different ways, and the pilot could

no longer see what course to steer. Unused to tho

tempestuous element, and terrified by the novelty of

the danger, the soldiers added to the alarm. They

interfered with the mariners; they endeavoured to

lend a helping hand ; but activity, without skill, serv­

ed only to embarrass such as knew their duty. The

winds at last were collected to one point, and tho

storm blew directly from tho south.

In that climate the south wind is generally more

tempestuous than in other seas. Sweeping over the

bleak German mountains, it drives from the land a

vast body of clouds, that form a scene of impending

horror, which the vicinity of the northern regions ren­

ders still more formidable. The ships were dispersed:

some were thrown on unknown islands, surrounded

with rocks, or upon banks of sand that lay concealed

beneath the waves. At the turn of the tide, the wind

and the current, with united force, drove one way.

To lie at anchor w as impossible. The billows broke

over the ships with such violence, that all the pumps

at work could not discharge the water. To lighten

