68 THE ANNALS [A.U.C. 768.

were not enough to glut the malice of Tiberius; he

attended the ordinary courts of justice; taking his

seat near the corner of the tribunal, that he might not

displace the prsetor from his curule chair. In his pre­

sence, which had the effect of controlling the intrigues

of the great, several just decisions were pronounced:

but even this was big with mischief; truth was served,

and liberty went to ruin. Pius Aurelius, a member

of the senate, complained to that assembly, that, by

the making of a public road, and laying an aqueduct,

the foundation of his house was ruined; he therefore

prayed to be indemnified. The prsetors of the treasury

opposed his petition. Tiberius, however, struck with

the justice of the case, paid the value of the house.

The littleness of avarice was no part of his character.

When fair occasions called for liberality, he was

ready to open his purse; and this munificent spirit

he retained for a long time, when every other virtue

was extinguished. Propertius Celer, a man of prae­

torian family, but distressed in his circumstances, de­

sired to abdicate his rank of senator. The state of

indigence in which he lived being found to be the

consequence of hereditary poverty, he received a do­

nation of a thousand great sesterces. A number of

applications of the same nature followed soon after;

but Tiberius required that the allegations of each pe­

tition should be proved. The austerity of his nature

mixed with his best actions a leaven of harshness,

that embittered his favours. By the rigour of the

prince distress was silenced: ingenuous minds chose to

languish in obscurity rather than seek, by humiliat­

ing confessions, a precarious, and at best a painful,

relief.

LXXVI. In the course of this year, the Tiber,

swelled by continual rains, laid the level parts of the

city under water. When the flood subsided, men and

houses were washed away by the torrent. Asmius

Gallus proposed to consult the books of the Sybils;

but Tiberius, dark and abstruse in matters of religion,

as well as civil business, overruled the motion. The

care of preventing inundations for the future was

committed to Ateius Capito and Lucius Arruntius. i

