192 THE ANNALS [A. U. C. 775.

erful combination, Silanus stood alone, obliged, with­

out any powers of oratory, to make his own defence

with fear and trembling; a situation that might disarm

the noblest talents. Tiberius helped to increase his

difficulties. With a stern tone of voice, and a con­

tracted brow, he pressed the defendant with sudden

questions, never suffering him to pause a moment,

either to repel or elude the charge. Silanus was

obliged to admit several points, rather than seem to

refute or baffle the inquiry of the emperor. His very

slaves, to make them competent witnesses, were sold

by auction to the public officer; and, to make de­

struction sure, Tiberius added the crime of violated

majesty, that none of the prisoner's family or friends

might presume to assist in the defence. Silanus de­

sired an adjournment of a few days. In thatinterval,

abandoning all his hopes, he sent a memorial to Ti­

berius, in a style sufficiently humble, but still with the

spirit of a man who felt himself oppressed, and dared

to speak the language of reproach/

LXVI1I. Tiberius remained inflexible; but, to give

the colour of precedent to his final sentence, he or- 4

dcred the proceedings against Volesus Messala who

had also been proconsul of Asia, with the record of

Augustus, and the decree made on that occasion, to

be read. He then collected the votes, beginning

with Lucius Piso. That senator, after some flou­

rishes in praise of the emperor's clemency, concluded,

that Silanus should be interdicted from fire and wa­

ter, and banished to the isle of Gyarus. The fathers

concurred in the same opinion, when Cneius Lentu.

lus proposed, by way of mitigation that the estate

which descended to Silanus from his mother, should

not be included in the general forfeiture, but vested

in the grandson. Tiberius agreed to the amendment.

The business seemed to be at an end, when Cornelius

Dolabella rose to show, that his servile spirit had not

deserted him. He launched out into a sharp invec­

tive'against the morals of Silanus, grafting on it a

motion, that no man of dissolute manners should be

eligible to the government of provinces; and of this

incapacity the emperor should be the the sole judge. ,

