A. D. 21.] or tacitus. 173

of Arden, but was intercepted by the legions detached

by Visellius and Caius Silius from the two armies on

the Rhine. A party of those troops was ordered for­

ward under the command «f Julius Indus, a native of

Treves, who was 'then at variance with Florus, and,

for that reason, burned with impatience to encounter

his enemy. He gave battle to the rebels, and over

an ill-appointed and undisciplined multitude gained

a complete victory. Florus lay for some time con­

cealed in lurking places; but at length, finding himself

unable to elude the search of the Roman soldiers, and

seeing the defiles and passages guarded on every

side, he died by his own sword. The people of Treves,

after this event, returned to their duty.

XLIII. The jEduan commotions were not so easily

quelled. The state was rich and powerful, and the

force necessary to subdue the insurrection lay at a

considerable distance. Sacrovir strained every nerve

to support his cause. He seized the city of Augus-

todunum, the capital of the .ffiduans, and took into

his custody the flower of the young nobility, who re­

sorted thither from all parts of Gaul, as to a school

of science and liberal education. By detaining those

pledges, he hoped to attach to his interest their parents

and relations. He supplied the young men with

arms, which had been prepared with secrecy by his

directions. His numbers amounted to less than forty,

thousand, a fifth part of which were armed after the

manner of the legions: the rest carried hunting-poles,

knives, and other instruments of the chase. He had,

besides, pressed into his service a body of slaves,

reared up to the trade of gladiators, and, according to

the custom of the country, clad with an entire plate

of iron. In the language of Gaul they were called

Crupellarians. Their armour was impenetrable to

the stroke of the enemy, but at the same time ren­

dered the men too unwieldy for the attack. The ad­

joining provinces had not taken up arms: but a num­

ber of individuals caught the infection, and joined the

rebel army. Sacrovir gained a further advantage

from the jealousies subsisting between the Roman ge­

nerals. Each claimed to himself the conduct of the

P 2 *

