A. D.20.J 157 OF TACITUS.

them to be examined under the torture upon any

point that concerned himself or his family. He ex­

empted Drusus, though consul elect, from the rule,

that required him to give the first vote. This by

some was considered as a true republican principle,

that the fathers might give their voices, free and un­

influenced by the example of the prince. Others

called it a stroke of subtle cruelty, it being by no

means probable, that Drusus would decline to speak

in order of time, if a sentence of condemnation had

not been already fixed.

XXIII. The celebration of the public games sus­

pended the trial for some days. In that interval, Le-

pida, accompanied by a train of illustrious women,

entered the theatre: in a pathetic strain she invoked

her ancestors; she called on Pompey in his own thea­

tre (that monument of grandeur,) and addressed her­

self to the images of that illustrious man. Her grief

made an impression; tears gushed from the eyes of the

people, and, indignation soon succeeding, bitter exe­

crations were thrown out against Quirinius; " a su-

" perannuated dotard, sprung from a mean extraction,

" to whom in the decline of life, a noble dame, for-

" merly intended to bo the wife of Lucius Csesar, and

" by consequence, the grand-daughter of Augustus,

" was joined in wedlock, that he, good man! might

" raise heirs to his estate." Notwithstanding these

clamours, the slaves of Lepida were put to the ques­

tion. Their evidence amounted to full proof of her

guilt; and on the motion of Rubellius Blandus, she

was forbid the use of fire and water. Even Drusus

gave his assent, though a milder sentence would have

been agreeable to the wishes of a considerable num­

ber. By the interest of Scaurus, her former husband,

who had a daughter by her, the confiscation of her

property was remitted. At the close of the proceed­

ings, Tiberius informed the fathers, that he had exa­

mined the slaves of Quirinius, and their evidence left

him no room to doubt of a formed design to poison

her husband.

XXIV. The families of the first consequence at

Rome began to feol, with regret, that their numbers

Vol. I.—O

