48 [A. U. C. 767. THE ANNALS

LII. An account of these events arriving at Rome,

Tiberius was variously affected. He received a degree |

of pleasure, but it was a pleasure mingled with anxie­

ty. That the troubles in the camp were at an end,

he heard with satisfaction: but he saw, with a jealous

spirit, that by largesses, and dismissions from the ser­

vice, Germanicus had gained the affections of the le­

gions. The glory of his arms was another circum­

stance that touched him nearly. He though fit, not­

withstanding, to lay the whole account before the se­

nate. He expatiated at large in praise of Germani­

cus, but in terms of studied ostentation, too elaborate

to be thought sincere. Of Drusus, and the issue of

the troubles in Illyricum, he spoke with more reserve;

concise, yet not without energy. The concessions

made by Germanicus to the legions on the Rhine,

were ratifir d in every article, and at the same time

extended to the army in Pannonia.

L1II. In the course of the year died Julia, the

daughter of Augustus. On account of her lascivious

pleasures, she had been formerly banished by her

father to the Isle of Pandataria, and afterward to

Rhegium, a city on the streights of Sicily. During

the life of her sons Caius and Lucius, she became the

wife of Tiberius, and by the haughtiness of her car­

riage made him feel that she thought him beneath her

rank. The arrogance of her behaviour was the secret

and most powerful motive for the retreat, which that

prince made to the Isle of Rhodes. At his accession

to the empire, when he was master of the Roman

world, he saw her in a state of destitution, banished,

covered with infamy, and, after the murder of Agrippa

Posthumus, without a ray of hope to comfort her.

Yet this could not appease the malice of Tiberius.

He ordered her to be starved to death; concluding

that, after a tedious exile at a place remote, a linger­

ing death in want and misery, would pass unnoticed.

From the same root of bitterness sprung the cruel­

ly with which he persecuted Semprpnius Gracchus;

a man descended from a noble family, possessed of

talents, and adorned with eloquence, but eloquence vi­

ciously applied. By his wit and rare accomplishments

