12 THE ANNALS [A. U. C. 767.

anniversary of his accession to the imperial dignity,

was the day of his death. He died at Nola, in the

same house, and in the same chamber, where Octavius

his father breathed his last.* They called to mind, in

wonder and amaze, the number of his consulships,

equal to those of Valerius Corvinus and Caius Marius

put together. The tribunitian power continued in his

hands during a series of seven-and-thirty years; he

was saluted Imperator no less than one-and-twenty

times; and other titles of distinction were either in­

vented or revived to adorn his name. Reflections of

a different kind were made by thinking men. They

rejudged the. life of the emperor, and pronounced with

freedom. By his apologists, it was argued, " that

" filial piety to his adopted father, the distraction of

" the times, and the ruin of the laws, made the part

"he took in the civil wars an act of necessity; and

" civil war can neither be undertaken or conducted on

" principles of honour and strict justice. To revenge

" the death of Julius Csesar, was the primary motive.

" To obtain that end, he made concessions to Antony,

" and he temporized with Lepidus: but when the lat-

" ter grew gray in sloth, and the former fell a victim

" to his voluptuous passions, the commonwealth, con-

" vulsed by party divisions, had no resource but the

" government of one. There was, however, no mo-

" narchy, no dictator: content with the unassuming

" title of Prince of the Senate, he established peace,

" and settled the constitution. The ocean and far

" distant rivers marked his boundaries of the empire.

" The legions, the provinces, and the fleets of Rome

" acted in concert, with all the strength of system.

"Justice was duly administered at home; the allies

" were treated with moderation; and magnificent

" structures rose to ador n the capital. Violent mea-

"sures were rarely adopted, and never but for the

" good of the whole."

X. To this it was answered, " Filial piety, and the

" distraction of the times were nothing but a colour to

" varnish over the lust of dominion. It was the am-

"bition of Augustus that gained the veterans by a

" profusion'of largesses;' itwas ambition that raised

