A. D. 16.] OF TACITUS. 75

taxias, the son of that unfortunate prince, conceived

from that tragic event a rooted aversion to the Ro­

man name. He ascended the throne his father, and

with tlie assistance of the Parthians stood at bay with

Rome, till he fell at last by the perfidy of his own re­

lations. After his death, Tigranes, by the appoint­

ment of Augustus, was raised to the throne. Tibe­

rius Nero, at the head of a powerful army, conducted

him to the capital of his dominions, The reign of

this prince was short. His issue succeeded; but the

line became extinct, notwithstanding the intermar­

riages of brother and sister, allowed by the policy of

eastern nations, to strengthen the royal line. By or­

der of Augustus, Artavasdes succeeded. To support

his cause, Rome exerted her strength, and spilt the

blood of her armies, but without success. The new

king was driven from the throne.

IV. In that juncture, Caius Csesar was' sent to

compose the troubles in Armenia. With the consent

of the people that young commander placed the crown

on the head of Ariobarzanes, by birth a Mede, dis-

} tinguished by his rare accomplishments, and his grace­

ful figure. After the death of this prince, who lost

his life by an accident, the people refused obedience

to his descendants. A woman of the name of Erato

succeeded: but a female reign did not last long. From

that time the nation continued in a state of anarchy,

without a master, yet not in possession of liberty. It

was in this posture of affairs that Vonones entered

Armenia. The people received him with open arms.

Artabanus, in the mean time, threatened to invade

the kingdom. The Armenians were not in force; and

Rome, without undertaking an expensive war against

the Parthians, could not espouse their cause. Vonones

K fled for shelter to Creticus Silanus, the governor of

Syria. That officer promised his protection; but af-

, terwards thought proper to secure the person of the

• prince, leaving him, under a strong guard, to enjoy

I' the title of king, and the parade of royalty. The ef­

forts which Vonones made to escape from this mock-

dignity, shall be related in due time.

* V. Tiberius, with his usual phlegm, saw the storm

