j2 the axnaiS [A.U. C. 768.

demagogue. Among the deputies sent to Germani-

cus, was Segimund, the son of Segestes; a young

man who, in the year famous for the revolt of Ger­

many, was made by the Romans a priest of tho

Ubian altar; but soon after, fired by the zeal that

roused his whole nation, he tore off his sacred vest­

ments, and went over to his countrymen. Conscious

of this offence, he hesitated for some time, willing to

decline the embassy; till at length, encouraged'by the

fame of Roman clemency, he obeyed his father's or­

ders. He met with a gracious reception; and, under

a proper guard, was conducted in safety to the fron­

tiers of Gaul. Germanicus thought it of moment to

change his purpose, and marched back to the relief of

Segestes. He no sooner appeared-before the place,

" than the enemy was attacked and put to the rout.

Segestes was set at liberty, and with him a nu­

merous train of relatives and faithful followers;

several women of noble birth; and, in the number,

the daughter of Segestes, then married to Arminius.

In her deportment no trace appeared of her father's

character: she breathed the spirit of her husband.

Not a tear was seen to start; no supplicating tone

was heard; she stood in pensive silence; her hands

strained close to her bosom, and her eyes fixed upon

her womb, then pregnant with the fruit of her mar­

riage. At the same time was brought forth a load of

spoils, which, in the slaughter of Varus and his le­

gions, fell to the share of those who now surrendered

to the Roman arms. What chiefly attracted every

eye, was Segestes himself; his stature of superior size,

and his countenance that of a man who knew neither

guilt nor fear. He spoke to this effect:

LVIII. " It is not now the first time that Segestes

"has given proofs'of his attachment to the cause of

" Rome. From the moment when I was enrolled a

"citizen by the deified Augustus, your interest has'

" been the rule of my conduct. Your friends I em-

" braced; your enemies were mine. In acting thus, I

" have not been guilty of treason to my country. A

" traitor I know is odious, even to those who profit by

" the treason. I have been your friend, because I

