1 10 , THE ANNALS [A. U. C. 770.

reason the more disastrous; no warning given, and by

consequence no time to escape. The open fields, in

such dreadful convulsions, are the usual refuge; but J

the earth opening in various places, all who attempted

to fly were buried in the yawning caverns. Hills are

said to have sunk, and valleys rose to mountains.

Quick flashes of lightning showed all the horrors of

the scene. The city of Sardes suffered most, and was

relieved in proportion to the distress of the inhabi­

tants. Besides a remission for five years of all taxes,

whether due to the public treasury, or the coffers of

the prince, Tiberius promised a supply of one hun­

dred thousand great sesterces. The city of Magnesia,

situate near mount Sipylus, suffered, in the next de,

'gree, and was considered accordingly. The inhabi­

tants of Temnos, Philadelphia, Egcoa, and Apollonia,

with the cities of Hierocsesarea, Myrina, Cyme, Tmo-

lus, as also the Mosthenians, and the'people called the

Macedonians of Hyrcania, were, for the like term of

five years, exempted from all manner of imposts. The

senate resolved to send a person of their own order :

to make an estimate of the mischief, and grant suita- '

ble relief. The affairs of Asia were at that time ad­

ministered by a man of consular dignity. To avoid

the jnalousy incident to officers of equal rank, Mar­

cus Aletus, who had risen no higher than the office

of prsetor, was the person commissioned to superin­

tend the business.

XLVIII. Besides these acts/of public munificence,

Tiberius showed, in matters of a private nature, »

spirit of liberality that did him the highest honour.

The estate of /Emilia Musa, who was possessed of a

large fortune, and died intestate, leaving no lawful

heir, was claimed to the prince's use by the officer of

the imperial exchequer. Tiberius renounced his right

in favour of iEmilius Lepidus, who seemed to stand

in some degree of relation to the deceased. He gave

up, in like manner, the rich possessions, of Patuleius,

a Roman knight; and, though a considerable legacy

was left to himself, he resigned the whole to Marcus

Servllius, upon the ground of a former will, duly at­

tested, in which gervilius was constituted sols heir.

