A. D. 15.] 59 OF TACITUS.

advanced, it was too slippery for their feet. The

weight of the soldiers' armour, and the depth of wa­

ter, made the management of the javelins almost im­

practicable. The Cheruscans, on the contrary, were

fighting in their own element; they were used to fens

and marshes; their stature was large, and their spears

of a length to wound at a distance. The legions began

to give way, when night came on, and put an end to

the unequal conflict. The barbarians were too much

flushed with success to complain of fatigue, or to

think of rest. During the night they cut a channel

for the waters, and from the neighbouring hills let

down a deluge into the valley. The plains were laid

under water; and the half-finished works being car­

ried a way by the flood, the soldier saw that his labour

was to begin again. Csecina had been forty years in

the service. A man of his experience, who had known

the viccissitudes of war, was not to be disconcerted.

He saw, between the morass and the hills, a plain of

solid ground, large enough for a small army. To

that spot, having weighed all circumstances, lie judged

• it his best expedient to send the wounded with the

heavy baggage, and in the mean time to confine the

Germans in their woods. For this purpose he sta­

tioned the fifth legion in the right wing, and the one-

and-twent.ieth in the left; the first legion led the van,

and the twentieth brought up the rear.

LXV. The night in both camps was busy and un­

quiet, but from different causes. The barbarians

passed their time in jollity and carousing; warlike

Bongs and savage howlings kept a constant uproar,

while the woods and valleys rung with the hideous

sound. In the Roman camp the scene was different:

pale gleaming fires were seen; no sound, save that of

low and hollow murmurs; the soldiers lay extended

at length under the palisades, or wandered from tent

to tent, fatigued and weary, yet scarce awake. Ceocina

Was disturbed by a terrible dream: he thought that

Quintilius Varus emerged from the fens; and calling

upon him to follow, waved his hand to point the way.

Unwilling to obey the summons, Crocina pushed the

phantom from him. At break of day, the legions,

