A. D. 15.] op TACiTtra. 69

The provinces of Achaia and Macedonia, being found

unequal to the taxes imposed upon them, were re­

lieved from the expense ofsupporting a proconsular

government, and for the present transferred to the

superintendence of the emperor. Drusus, in his awn

name, and that of his brother Germanicus, exhibited

a spectacle of gladiators, and presided in person ; de­

lighted, more than became his rank, with the effusion

of blood, and, by consequence, giving to the populace

no favourable impression of his character. Tibe­

rius, it is said, reproved him for his indiscretion.

Why he himself did not attend the public games,

various reasons were assigned. According to some,

" numerous assemblies were not his taste, and crowds

" fatigued him." Others ascribed it to the phlegmatic

genius of the man, fond of solitude, and willing to

avoid a comparison with the gracious manners of

Augustus, who was always a cheerful spectator on

such occasions. That he intended, with covered ma­

lice, to afford Drusus an opportunity of laying open

the ferocity of his nature, and thereby giving umbrage

to the people, seems rather a strained construction ;

yet even this was said at the time.

LXXVII. The disorders occasioned by theatrical

fictions in the preceding year, broke out again with

increasing fury. Numbers of the common people, and

even many of the soldiers, with their centurion, ex­

erting themselves to quell the tumult, and defend the

magistrate, were killed in the fray. A tribune of the

prsetorian guard was wounded on the occasion. The

affair was taken into consideration by the senate.

The fathers were on the point of passing a vote, in­

vesting the prsetor with authority to order the players

to be publicly whipped. This was opposed by Hate-

mis Agrippa, a tribune of the people, who by his

speech drew upon himself a sharp reply from Asi-

nius Gallus. Tiberius with a deep reserve listened to

the debate. To see the senators amusing themselves

with a show of liberty, filled him with secret satisfac­

tion. The motion, however, passed in the negative.

The authority of Augustus, who had formerly decided

that players were not liable to that mode of punish­

