A. D. 16.] OF TACITUS. 85

formed wonders. Wounded as he was, he braved

every danger; with his voice, with his hand, with

every effort still sustaining the combat. He fell with

fury on the archers, and would have opened his way,

had not the Rhsetian cohorts, with the Gauls and the

Vindelici, advanced their standards to oppose him.

Indebted to his own exertions, and the vigour of his

horse, he escaped from the field; and, to disguise his

person, besmeared his face with his own blood. If

report is to be credited, the Chaucians, then 'serving

the allies of Rome, knew his person, but connived

at his escape.

By the like gallant behaviour, or a similiar treach­

ery, Inguiomer survived the havoc of the day. A

general carnage followed. Numbers endeavouring to

swim across the Visurgis, perished in the attempt,

overwhelmed with darts, or carried away by the vio­

lence of the current. The multitude then plunged

into the water; obstructed one another; and, the

banks giving way, were crushed under the load. Some

were dastardly enough to seek their safety by climb­

ing up the trees, where they hoped to skulk among

the branches: but the Roman archers, in sport and

derision, took aim at the fugitives; and in that man­

ner, or by felling the trees, they were all destroyed.

The victory was signal; and cost the Romans little

or no effusion of blood.

XVIII. The slaughter lasted from the fifth hour,

to the close of day. The country, ten miles round,

was covered with mangled bodies, and the arms of

the vanquished. Among the spoils was found a

large quantity of fetters, which the barbarians, anti­

cipating a certain victory, had prepared for the Ro­

man prisoners. The legions on the field of battle pro­

claimed Tiberius Imperator; and having raised a

mount, placed on the top of it a pile of German arms,

as the trophies of victory, with an inscription at the

base, setting forth the names of the conquered na­

tions.

XIX. To the German mind nothing could be so

exasperating as thfs monument of Roman glory. The

wounds received in battle, the desolation of their

Vol. I.—H

