30 THE ANNALS [A. U. C. 767.

suffered an eclipse, and storms and tempests burst

from the angry elements. The guilt of the army was

the cause of all. To avert impending vengeance, the

only expedient was to depart at once from a vile, in­

auspicious camp, the scene of so many crimes, and,

by due atonement, expiate their past offences in their

winter quarters. In this persuasion the eighth legion

departed; the fifteenth followed; while the ninth re­

mained behind,'declaring aloud that they would wait

for orders from Tiberius: but they soon saw them­

selves deserted, and therefore struck their tents, wil­

ling to do by choice what in a little time would be an

act of necessity. Peace and good order being thus

restored, Drusus judged it unnecessary to wait till

the return of the deputies, and immediately set off

for Rome.

XXXI. About the same time, and from the same

causes, another sedition broke out among the legions

in Germany, supported by greater numbers, and every

way more alarming. The leaders of the mutiny flat­

tered themselves that Germanicus, impatient of a new

master, would resign himself to the will of the legions,

and in that case they had no doubt but that every

thing would fall before him. Two armies in that

juncture were formed on the banks of the Rhine; one

in Upper Germany, commanded by Caius Silius; the

other in Lower Germany under Aulus Csecina. Both

were subordinate to Germanicus, the commander in

chief, who was then in Gaul, holding the assembly of

the states, and collecting the revenues of that nation.

The forces under Silius had not as yet revolted: un­

decided, wavering, and cautious, they judged it pru­

dent to wait the issue of the mutiny begun by others.

In Csecina's camp on the Lower Rhine the flame of

discord was kindled to the utmost fury. The one-

and-twentieth and fifth legions began the insurrection;

the first and the twentieth followed their example:

they were all stationed together in a summer camp

on the confines of the Ubians. The campaign was in­

active ; and as the calls of duty were slight, the time

of course was passed in repose and indolence.

New levies from Rome, the refuse of that city, had

