102 THE ANNALS [A. U. C.769.

probably retaining still the spirit of his ancestors, un­

broken by distress. From this time Tiberius never

relented. While the house of Hortensius sunk into

distress and poverty, he looked on with unconcern,

and saw that illustrious family moulder into ruin.

XXXIX. In the courso of this year, the daring

genius of a single slave well nigh involved the em­

pire in a civil war. The name of this man was

Clemens, formerly retained in the service of Posthu-

mus Agrippa. He was no sooner apprised of the

death of Augustus, than he conceived tho bold design

of passing over to the isle of Planasia, with intent,

by force or stratagem, to carry off Agrippa, and con­

vey him to the German army. This enterprise, con­

ceived by a slave, was no indication of a grovelling

mind._ He embarked on board a trading vessel, deep­

ly laden, and after a tedious passage arrived too late:

Agrippa was previously murdered. The man was

now resolved to act a nobler part. Taking with him

the ashes of the prince^ he sailed to Cosa, a promon­

tory of Etruria, and there remained concealed in the

sequestered parts of the country, till his hair and

beard were grown into length. He was of his mas­

ter's age, and in form and stature not unlike him. He

began by his friends and agents to circulate a whis­

per that Agrippa was still living. The story, as is

usual in the beginning of plots, was helped about by

clandestine arts. By degrees the tools of this bold

adventurer grew more hardy; the weak and ignorant

believed every thing; and the bold and turbulent,

who wish for nothing so much as convulsions in the

state, received the news with joy and exultation.

While the report was gaining ground, the author of

it withdrew with caution from the public eye. Truth,

he was aware, is always brought to light by time and

reflection; while the lie of the day lives by bustle,

noise, and precipitation. The impostor was therefore

resolved to keep the minds of men in a constant fer­

ment: he visited the municipal towns, but always in

the dusk of the evening; he went to one place, he

flew to another, continually in motion, never long

any where; but, as soon as he made his impression,

