182 [A.U.C. 775. THE ANNALS

" Italy, when reduced to subjection, afforded but few

" incentives to luxury. Foreign victories taught us to

"dissipate the property of others; and the civil wars .

" made us prodigal of our own. But after all, is the

" mischief, which the sediles make the ground of their

" complaint, the worst of our grievances ? Compare

"it with other evils, and it vanishes into nothing.

" Italy stands in need of foreign supplies, and yet no

" reformer tells us, how much the commonwealth is

" every day at the mercy of the winds and waves.

" The produce of colonies is imported to maintain

" our pride and luxury, to feed the master of the seil,

"and to supply his slaves with the necessaries of life.

" Should those resources fail, will our groves, our vil-

" las, and our spacious pleasure grounds be sufficient

" to satisfy our wants ? That care is left to the sove-

" reign. Should he neglect that essential duty, the

" commonwealth is lost. With regard to other evils,

" the remedy is in the breast of every individual.

"Men of rank may be restrained by principle, the

" poor by indigence, and the rich by satiety. These

" are my sentiments. If, notwithstanding, any ma- ,

"gistrate should be of opinion that more may be

"done; if he feels within himself vigour and indus-

" try to oppose the torrent; I honour the firmness of

" his character, and cheerfully resign to abler hands a

" great part of my own solicitude. But when he has

" declaimed against corruption, if his zeal is to eva-

"porate in a florid speech; if the violence of party

" resentments, which his patriot cares have roused, is

" to point at me, while the censor of the manners

" enjoys the fame of his eloquence: believe me, con-

" script fathers, I am not more than another, ambi-

" tious of making enemies. To encounter animosi-

" ties, for the most part unprovoked, and often

, " unjust, is too much my lot at present; and yet for

" the interest of the community, it is a tax which I am

" willing to pay. But if I deprecate new hostilities,

« permit me, with your consent, to avoid all such as

" may be excited without due consideration, useless to

" the state, and to me big with every disadvantage."

LV. This letter being read, the senate released the

