142 THE ANNALS [A. U. C. 773

It does not appear, either in the historians of the

time, or in the public journals, that Antonia, the mo­

ther of Germanicus, took any part in the funeral ce­

remony. Agrippina, Drusus, Claudius, and the rest

of the prince's relations, are registered by name; but

of Antonia no mention is made. She was probably

hindered from attending by want of health, or the

sensibility of a mother might be unequal to so severe

a trial. To speak my own opinion, I am inclined to

believe that nothing but the emperor and his mother

could restrain her from the last human office to her

son. If all three absented themselves, equal affliction

might be inferred; and, the uncle and grandmother

might be supposed to find a precedent in the conduct

of the mother.

IV. The day on which tho remains of Germanicus

were deposited in the tomb of Augustus, was remark­

able for sorrow in various shapes. A deep and mourn­

ful silence prevailed, as if Rome v/as become a desert;

and, at intervals, the general groan of a distracted

multitude broke forth at once. The streets were

crowded: the Field of Mars glittered with torches:

the soldiers were underarms; themagistrates appeared

without the ensigns of their authority; and the peo­

ple stood ranged in their several tribes. All, with

one voice, despaired of the commonwealth; they spoke

their minds without reserve, in the anguish of thoir

hearts forgetting the master that reigned over them.

Nothing, however, touched Tiberius so near, as the

decided affection of the people for Agrippina, who

was styled the ornament of her country, the only

blood of Augustus, and the last remaining model of

ancient manners. With hands upraised, the people

invoked the gods, imploring them to protect the chil­

dren of Germanicus from the malice of pernicious

enemies.

V. There were at that time men of reflection who

thought the whole of the ceremony short of that fu­

neral pomp which the occasion required. The mag­

nificence displayed in honour of Drusus, the father of

Germanicus, was put in contrast to the present fru­

gality. " Augustus, in the depth of winter, went as

