A. D.22.J OF TACITUS. 197

many different routes. In the quarter where the

Africans ravaged the country near Leptis, and then

fled for shelter to the Germantcs, Cornelius Scipio,

the proconsul's lieutenant, advanced with his divi­

sion. In another quarter, where Cirta lay exposed

to the barbarians, the younger Blecsus, the proconsul's

bob, commanded a second detachment. ln tliB inter­

mediate part of the country, the commander jn chief

marched at the head of a chosen body of troops At

all convenient places he threw up entrenchments

and appointed garrisons, securing every station by a

regular chain of posts.

The barbarians found themselves counteracted on

every s'de. Wherever they turned, the Romans were

at hand, in front, in flank, and in the rear. Numbers

were surrounded, and either put to the sword, or

taken prisoners. To spread the alarm, the Roman

army was again subdivided into smaller parties, un­

der the command of centurions of approved valour

and experience. Nor was the campaign closed, as

osual, at the end of the summer. Instead of retiring

to winter-quarters in the old provinces, Blsesus kept

the field; he increased the number of his posts and

garrisons, and sent out detachments, lightly armed,

with guides acquainted with the course of the coun­

try. Tacfarinas could no longer stand at bay. He

shifted his huts, and wandered from place to place.

At length his brother was taken prisoner, and Blsesus

thought it time to close the campaign., His retreat

was sudden and premature. The province was still

open to incursions; and the flame of war, though

suppressed, was not extinguished. Tiberius, how­

ever, considered the enemy as completely vanquished.

Besides the honours already granted -to Blsesus, he

ordered that the legions should salute him by the

title of Imferator, according to the ancient custom

of the Roman armies, in the pride of victory flushed

with the generous ardour of warlike spirits. In the

time of the republic, this was a frequent custom, in­

somuch that several, at the same time, without pre-

s or distinction, enjoyed that military honour.

R 2

