A. D.21.] OF TACITUS. 165

bate hy the same Corbulo. The highways, he said,

were in a bad condition throughout Italy, neglected

every where, and in some places impassable. He im­

puted the mischief to the fraudulent practices of con­

tractors, and the inattention of the magistrates. He

was desired to superintend the business; but the ad­

vantage, whatever it was, that accrued to the public,

did not counterbalance the ruin of individuals, who

Buffered, both in reputation and fortune, by the harsh

decision of Corbulo, and the confiscation of their

eifects.

XXXII. In a short time after, the senate received

despatches from Tiberius, with intelligence that

Africa was again alarmed by the incursions of Tae-

farinas. The occasion, the emperor said, required a

proconsul of military talents, and vigour equal to the

fatigues of war; but the choice was left to the judg­

ment of the fathers. Sextus Pompeius seized this

opportunity to launch out in a bitter invective against

Marcus Lepidus, v'iom he styled a man void of cou­

rage, destitute of fortune, a disgrace to his ancestors,

and by no means fit to be entrusted with the go­

vernment of Asia, which had then fallen to his lot.

The senate was of a different opinion. What was

called want of courage, according to them, was mild­

ness of disposition; his indigence was a misfortune,

not a disgrace; nor could it be deemed a fair objec­

tion to a man, who, in narrow circumstances, sup- .

ported the dignity of his ancestors, and lived in ho­

nourable poverty, with an unblemished character. He

was therefore declared proconsul of Asia. The

choice of a governor to command in Africa, was by a

decree, reserved for the decision of the emperor.

XXXIII. In the course of the debate, a motion was

made by Csecina Severus, that the governors of pro­

vinces should be no longer accompanied by their

wives. He prefaced the business with repeated de­

clarations, that between him and his wife, who had

brought him six children, the truest harmony subsist­

ed ; and yet the law, which he now proposed, had

ever been the rule of his own conduct; insomuch that

in a series of forty years, during which time he had

