A. D. 22.] 183 OP TACITUS.

rediles from all farther care about the business. Lux­

ury went on with boundless profusion. It began

soon after the battle of Actium, and continued to

flourish, for the space of a century, down to the time

when Galba attained the imperial dignity. At that

period the manners changed, and temperance became

the fashion. Of this revolution in the modes of life

a short account will not be improper. While the old

constitution still subsisted, pomp and splendour were

often the ruin of the most illustrious families. To

conciliate the favour of the populace, and of the al­

lies of Rome, including even kings and princes, was

the great object of a Roman citizen. In proportion

to his wealth, his grandeur, and the magnificence of

his retinue, his importance rose, and with-it the num­

ber of his clients. But when the best blood in Rome

was spilt by imperial tyranny, and to be eminent was

to be marked out for destruction; it became the inter­

est of the great to lay aside all vain ostentation, and

adopt a more humble plan of life. At the same time,

a new race of men from the municipal towns, the co­

lonies, and tire provinces, found their way, not only

to Rome, but even into the senate. The strangers

thus incorporated brought with them their natural

parsimony. In the course of a long life many of them,

either by their own frugality, or a tide of success in

their affairs, accumulated immoderate riches; yet

even in affluence, avarice was their ruling passion.

But the cause, which, above all others, contributed to

the revival of ancient economy, was the character of

Vespasian; a man of primitive temperance and rigid

austerity. All agreed to imitate so excellent a model.

Respect for the priuce did more than all the pains and

penalties of the law. And yet, it may be true, that

in the nature of things there is a principle of rotation,

in consequence of which the manners, like the seasons,

are subject to periodical changes. Nor is it certain

that, in the former ages of the world, every thing was

better than in the times that succeeded. The present

age has produced, in moral conduct and the liberal

arts, a number of bright examples, which posterity

will do well to imitate. May the contest with anti-

