A. D. 14.] OF TACITUS. 15

" painful pre-eminence, exposed to danger, and sub-

" ject to the vicissitudes of fortune. In a city so well

" provided with men of illustrious character, was it

" adviseable to confide the whole to a single ruler?:.

" The several departments of public business would

" be better filled by a coalition of the best and ablest

" citizens." In this strain Tiberius delivered himself^

with dignity of sentiment, it is true, but nothing from,

the heart. A profound master of dissimulation, he',

had from nature, or the force of habit, the art of be- |

ing dark and unintelligible. Even upon occasions

when duplicity was useless, he spoke in short and

broken hints, the sense suspended, mysterious, and

indecisive. Intending at present to conceal his sen­

timents, he was of course more involved than ever.

The senators, dreading nothing so much as the crime

of knowing his character, broke out in a strain of

supplication; they molted into tears; they poured

forth entreaties; with uplifted hands they looked to

the gods; they turned to the statue of Augustus, and

at times fell prostrate at the knees of Tiberius. Thus

surrounded he called for a state-paper, and ordered

it to be read. It set forth an estimate of the empire

and its resources, the number of citizens, the allies of

Rome, an account of the naval strength, the names of

the conquered kingdoms^ and provinces; the sub­

sidies, tributes, and the amount of the revenue, with

the necessary disbursements of government, and the

demands for secret service. The whole was in the

hand-writing of Augustus. It concluded with his ad­

vice, never to aim at an extension of empire : an im­

portant rule of policy; but was it the result of wisdom ?

or did he view with a malignant eye the fame that

might accrue to his successor? ,

XII. The senate still continuing, with prostrate

servility, to press their suit, Tiberius let fall an ex­

pression, intimating that though unequal to the whole,

he was willing to undertake any part that might be

committed to his care. Inform us, Csesar, said Asinius

Gallus, what part do you choose? Disconcerted by

so unexpected a question, Tiberius paused for a mo­

ment; but soon collecting himself, " To choose," he

