A. £>. 22.] OF TACITUS. 193

" When a crime is committed, the law takes cogni-

" sanco of it, and inflicts the punishment. But a law

" to prevent the offence, would be at once an act of

" mercy to bad men, and a blessing to the provinces."

LXIX. Tiberius spoke in reply : " To the reports,"

he said, " which were current to the disadvantage of

" Silanus, he was no stranger. But laws ought to

" have a better foundation than public rumour. The

V governors of provinces had often disappointed the

" hopes, and sometimes the fears of mankind. By

" important scenes of action the powers of the mind

" are roused; the heart expands to meet the occasion;

" while, on the other hand, feeble spirits shrink from

" a great opportunity, and grow less by elevation.

" The prince can never be fully informed; and it is

" not fit that he should see with the eyes of others.

" The arts of ambitious rivals may deceive him. In

* human affairs nothing can be foreseen with certain-  
" ty, and without facts, laws can have no operation.

" Till men have acted, they cannot be judged. It

" was the wisdom of our ancestors to keep the sword

" of justice in the scabbard, till actual offences drew

" it forth. In a system so just in itself, and so long

" established, innovations ought not to be rashly made.

" The cares of government are a burden to the sove-

" reign, and his prerogative wants no enlargement.

" Extend his authority, and you abridge the rights of

"the subj«ct. When the laws in being are suffi-

" cient, there is no occasion to resort to the will of the

" prince."

This was, no doubt, a constitutional speech. Fronv

a man little studious of popularity, it was received

with universal approbation. Tiberius did not stop:'

here; whon his own private resentment was not pro­

voked, ho knew that moderation was the best policy:

with that view he thought proper to add, that Gya-

rus was a dreary island, uncultivated, and inhospita­

ble. In honour, therefore, of the Julian family, and

from motives of lenity to a man who was a member

of the senate, he proposed to change the place of ba­

nishment to the isle of Cythera: and this, he said,

was the request of Torquata, sister to Silanus, and a

Vol. I.—R

