A. D.21.] 177 OF TACIT0S.

ancient patrician family of the Sulpicii. He was

born at Lanuvium, a municipal town: he distinguish足

ed himself by his military services, had considerable

talents for business, and was raised by Augustus to

the honour of the consulship. Having afterwards

stormed and taken the strong holds of the Homona-

densians in Cilicia, he obtained triumphal honours.

He attended Caius Caisar in his expedition to Arme足

nia, the chief director of his councils, and made use

of that opportunity to pay his court with secrecy, to

Tiberius, while that prince resided in the isle of

Rhodes. This anecdote Tiberius mentioned in his

letter; declaring himself, in gracious terms, well

pleased with the good offices of Quirinius, and at the

same time, reflecting with a degree of acrimony on

Marcus Lollius, to whose conduct he imputed the

dissensions between himself and Caius Csesar. But

the character of Quirinius was held in no esteem; his

unrelenting prosecution of Lepida, already related,

was still remembered ; and the sordid avarice of the

man, even in old age, and in the height of power, left

a stain upon his memory.

XLIX. The year closed with a prosecution of a

singular nature. Caius Lutorius Priscus, a Roman

knight, was the author of an applauded poem on the

death of Germanicus, and for his composition had

received a reward from Tiberius. The crime laid to

his charge was, that, when Drusus lay ill, he prepared

another elegy, from which he hoped, if the young

prince died, to derive still greater emolument. With

the vanity of a poet, Lutorius read his verses at the

house of Publius Petronius, in the presence of Vitel-

lia, the mother-in-law of that senator. Several wo足

men of distinction were of the party. As soon as the

prosecutor opened the heads of his accusation, the

confidential friends of the author were struck with

terror. The fact was admitted by all, except Vitellia:

she had the memory of a liberal-minded woman, and

could recollect nothing. Credit, however, was given

to the rest of the evidence. Haterius Agrippa, con足

sul elect, was the first to give his opinion: he proposed

that the unfortunate poet should suffer death.

