A. D. &2.] 181 OF TACITUS.

" tures, all indeed highly finished, the perfection of

"art? How shall we reform the taste for dress,

" which, according to the reigning fashion, is so ex-

" quisitely nice, that the sexes are scarce, distinguish-

" ed ? How are we to deal with the peculiar articles

" of female vanity, and, in particular, with that rage

" for jewels and precious trinkets, which drains the

" empire of its wealth, and sends in exchange for

" bawbles, the money of the commonwealth to foreign

" nations, and even to the enemies of Rome?

LIV. " That these abuses are the subject of dis-

" cussion at every table, and the topic of complaint

" in all private circles, I am not now to learn. And

" yet, let a law be made with proper sanctions, and

" the very men, who call for a reform, will be the

" first to make objections. The public peace, they

" will say, is disturbed; illustrious families are in

" dang«r of ruin; and all, without distinction, must

" live in dread of rigorous inquiries, and the harpies

" of the law. It is with the body politic as the body

4' natural: in the latter, chronical disorders, in time

" grown obstinate, call for harsh and violent reme-

" dies. Just so in the distempers of the mind: the

" heart, sick to the very core 'with vice, corrupted

" and corrupting, requires an antidote as strong as

" the poison that inflames our passions. Many whole-

" some laws were made by our ancestors, and many

" by Augustus : the former are grown obsolete; and

" the latter (to the disgrace of the age) are fallen

" into contempt, and, by consequence, luxury riots

" without control. The reason is obvious: while

" there is no law in force to1 prevent abuses, men

" proceed with caution, that the magnitude of the

" mischief may not provoke the authority of the le.

" gislature; but when positive institutions are found

" inadequate, the case is very different: unbridled

" passions take their course with impunity, and all

" transgress without fear or shame.

" Why was frugality the practice of ancient times ?

" because each individual was a law to himself: he

" knew how to moderate his desires; because we

•'were then the inhabitants of a single city. Eves

Vol. I.—Q

