168 [A.U.C.774. THE ANNALS

" passions of the profligate seducer. The presence of

" the husband is scarce sufficient to guard the sanc-

" tity of the marriage bed: what must be the conse-

" quence, if they are separated, and as it were,

" divorced for a number of years ? In that interval,

" the nuptial union may be obliterated from the mind.

" Let us, if we can, prevent disorder in the provinces;

" but let us not forget the manners of the capital."

In this debate Drusus delivered his sentiments. He

touched upon the subject of his own marriage, and

added, that the princes of the imperial house were

liable to the frequent,necessity of visiting distant pro­

vinces. How often did it happen that Augustus made

a progress in the West, and in the East, accompanied

by Livia his wife ? As to himself, he had commanded

in Illyricum, and was ready, if the state required, to

serve in any part of the empire; but he should serve

with regret, if he was to be torn from an affectionate

wife, the faithful mother of all his children. In con­

sequence of these reasonings, CiEcina's motion fell to

the ground.

XXXV. The senate at their next meeting received

letters from Tiberius, in which, after complaining ob­

liquely that the burden of all public business was

thrown on himself, he named Manius Lepidus and

Junius Blsesus for the proconsulship of Africa; leav­

ing the choice of one of them to the determination of

the fathers. Both were heard: Lepidus, with a de­

gree of earnestness, desired to be excused; alleging

the infirmities of his constitution, and the care due to

his children, who, except a daughter then fit for the

married state, were all of tender years. Lepidus had

still a better reason, but he chose to suppress it: it

was, nevertheless, well understood that Blsesus was

uncle to Sejanus, and of course had the prevailing

influence. Blsesus in his turn declined the office, but

with affected coyness. Flattery knew on which side

its interest lay; and, by consequence, the slaves of

power knew how to conquer such feeble reluctance.

Blsesus was of course appointed.

XXXVI. A public grievance, which had long been

felt with secret discontent, was soon after brought

