THE ANNALS [A. U. C. 768.

barked the second and the fourteenth legions, and put

them under the command of Publius Vitellius, with

directions to pursue their way over land. Vitellius

had at first a dry shore; but the wind blowing hard

from the north, and the waves, usual at the equinox,

rolling witli a prodigious swell, the soldiers were car­

ried away by the torrrent. The country was laid un­

der water. The sea, the shore, and the fields pre­

sented one vast expanse. The depths and shallows,

the quicksands and the solid ground, were no more

distinguished. The men were overwhelmed by the

waves, and absorbed by the eddies. Horses, baggage,

and dead bodies, were seen floating together. The

companies of the legions were mixed in wild confu­

sion, sometimes breast-high in water, and often deeper.

Numbers were carried off by the flood, and lost for

ever. Exhortations and mutual encouragement were

of no avail. Valour and cowardice, prudence and

temerity, wisdom and folly, perished without distinc­

tion. Vitellius at length gained an eminence, and

drew the legions after him. The night was passed in

the utmost distress; without fire, without utensils;

many of the soldiers naked; the greatest part wounded,

and ail in a condition worse than the horrors of a

siege. When the enemy is at the gates, an honour­

able death still remains; but here their fate was

wretched and inglorious. The return of day presented

a new face of things: the waters subsided, and the land

appeared. The general pursued his march to the river

Unsingis, where Germanicus was arrived withhis fleet.

The two legions were taken on board. A report of

their total loss was spread far and wide, and evory

day gained credit, till their safe return with Germa­

nicus proved the whole to be a false alarm.

LXXI. Meanwhile Stertinius, who had been de­

spatched to receive the surrender of Segimer, the bro

thef of Segestes, conducted that chief, together with

his son, to the city of the Ubians. A free pardon was

granted to both: to Segimer, without hesitation: to

the son, who was known to have offered indignities

to the body of Varus, not without some delay. Gaul,

Spain, and Italy, seemed to vie with each other in

