186 [A.U.C.775. THE ANNALS

" cused during the year of proconsular government ?

" That some of his predecessors had been restrained

" by the authority of the chief pontiff, was a fact not

" to be controverted; but the restraint, in those cases,

" was the effect of private animosity. At present, by

•» the indulgence of the gods, the chief pontiff is the

" chief of men; a stranger to all petty jealousies; un,

" influenced by the cabals of a party, and superior to

" the little motives of a private station."

L1X. Lentulus, the augur, and several other sena­

tors, opposed the motion. A debate ensued, with so

much diversity of opinion, that the question was re­

ferred to tho decision of the supreme pontiff. Tibe­

rius was not in haste to determine the point. Irt his

letters to the senate, he mentioned nothing but the

honours decreed to Drusus on his elevation to the

tribunitian power; and those he thought good to mo­

dify with certain restrictions. He censured, in direct

terms, the resolution proposed by Silanus, and4 like­

wise the motion of Haterius, for fixing up the decrees

in letters of gold; condemning both as unconstitu­

tional, and repugnant to ancient usage. Letters from

Drusus were, at the same time, read in the senate,

modest in the style and turn of expression, but, in

the general opinion, denoting prido and arrogance.

" Rome," they said, " was reduced to an humble con-

" dition, when a young man, raised to the highest dig-

5' nity, declines to return thanks to the gods in their

"own temples; when he disdains to-honour the se-

" nate with his presence, and refuses to attend ihe

" usual auspices in his native city. Was it war that

" detained him i or did he dread the inconvenience of

" a long j«urney, when he was only visiting the coast

" of Campania, or pursuing his pleasures on the lakes?

" This is the education of him, who is to be the fu-

" ture master of the Roman world ! He is tutored in

"the political school of his father! Tiberius may

" have his reasons for withdrawing himself from the

" public eye: the infirmities of age, and the labours

"of his life,,afford a colourable pretext; but for

" Drusus, what apology can be made ? Pride, rank

" pride, is his only motive."

