S3 THE ANNALS [A. U. C. 767.

"his solicitude by tumult and insurrection? If they

" would still persist in the season of profound peace,

" to urge ,a claim never demanded even by the con-

" querors in a civil war, why incur the guilt of rebel­

lion ? why, in violation of all military discipline,

" urge their pretensions sword in hand? They might

" depute their agents to treat with the prince; and, in

" the presence of their general, they might give their

" instructions on the spot." This proposal was ac­

cepted ; with one voice they called out for the son of

BIebsus, then a military tribune. The young officer

undertook the charge. His directions were to insist

that, at the expiration of sixteen years, the soldier

should be discharged from the service. That point

settled, it would then be time to enumerate other

grievances. With this commission the general's son

went forward on his journey. A calm succeeded, and

lasted for some days. But the minds of the soldiers

were still in agitation: their pride was roused; the ge­

neral's son was now the orator of the army; and force,

it was manifest, had at length extorted, what by gen­

tle measures could never be obtained.

XX. Meanwhile, the detached companies which be­

fore the disturbance had been sent to Nauportum to

repair the roads, the bridges, and other military works,

having heard of the commotions in the camp, seized

the colours ; and, after ravaging the adjacent villages,

plundered Nauportum, a place little inferior to a mu­

nicipal town. They treated the centurions with de­

rision; from derision they proceeded to opprobrious

language; and, in the end, to blows and open violence.

Aufidenus Rufus, the prefect of the camp, was the

chief object of their fury : they dragged him out of his

carriage; and, laying a heavy load on his back,

obliged him to march in the foremost ranks, asking

him with contemptuous insolence how he liked his

burden, and the length of his journey ? Rufus had

risen from a common man to the rank of centurion,

and was afterwards made prsefect of the camp. In

that station he endeavoured to recall the rigour of

ancient discipline. A veteran in the service, and long

inured to fatigue, he was strict and rigorous in his

