A. D. 16.] or tacitus. 79

*

who chastised the treachery of the barbarians, and

laid the country waste with fire and sword.

IX. The Visnrgis flowed between the Romans and

Cheruscans. On the opposite bank Arminius pre足

sented himself. He was attended by the principal

German chiefs. His business was to know whether

Germanicus was with the army? being answered in

the affirmative, he desired an interview with his bro足

ther, known to the Romans by the name of Flavius;

a man of strict fidelity, who some years before, under

the conduct of Tiberius, lost an eye in battle. The

meeting was permitted. Flavius advanced to the

margin of the river. Arminius, from the opposite

side, saluted him; and having ordered his guards to

fall back, required that the Roman archers should

withdraw in like manner. The two brothers being

left to themselves, Arminius fixed his eye on Flavius;

and, Whence, he said, that deformity of feature ? He

was told the battle and the place where it happened.

And what, continued Arminius, has been your recom足

pense ? I have received, said Flavius, an augmenta足

tion of pay, a military chain, an ornamented crown,

and other honours. Arminius burst into a laugh of

scorn and indignation. " They are the wages," he

said, " of a slave cheaply purchased."

X. A warm altercation followed. Flavius talked

of the majesty of Rome, the power of the Csesars,

the weight with which their vengeance falls on the

obstinate, and their clemency to the nations willing

to submit. He added, "Your wife and son are in the

" hands of Rome, and neither of them has been

" treated like a captive." Arminius, on the contrary,

urged the rights of men born in freedom, the laws

of his country, the plan of ancient liberty, and the

gods of Germany. " Your mother," he said, "joins

"with me in earnest supplication; we both conjure

"you not to desert your family; not to betray your

* friends, nor prefer the detested name of a traitor, to  
" the vast renown of commanding armies in the de-

" fence of your country." By degrees their passions

rose to a pitch of fury, insomuch that the river could

not have restrained them from deciding their quarrel

