80 THE ANNAL9 (A. U. C. 769.

by the sword, if Stertinius had not checked the im­

petuosity of Flavius, who stood burning with resent­

ment, and calling aloud for his horse and arms. Ar-

minius behaved with equal fury, in his slorm of

passion denouncing vengeance, and threatening* the

issue of a battle. What he said was perfectly under­

stood. He had commanded the auxiliaries of his coun­

try, acting in conjunction with the legions, and, hav ing

conversed in the Roman camp, was able to interlard

his discourse with Latin expressions.

XI. On the following day, the Germans appeared

on the other side of the Visurgis, drawn up in order

of battle. Germanicus, till he had thrown bridges over

the river, and made each pass secure, did not think

it advisable to expose his legions to the hazard of an

ongagement. In the mean time, to cause a diversion

of the enemy, he ordered the cavalry, under the con­

duct of Stertinius, and jEmilius, one of the principal

centurions, to ford over at two different places. Ca-

riovalda, at the head of his Batavians, advanced

where the current was most rapid. The Cheruscans

feigned a flight. Cariovalda, pursuing with too much

eagerness, pushed on to a place encompassed with

woods, and fell into an ambuscade. The enemy

rushed onto the attack with impetuous fury. They

bore down all who resisted, and pressed on such as

gave way. The Batavians formed a ring, and were

surrounded on every side. The Germans, at a dis­

tance, discharged a volley of darts, while some of

them, more eager than the rest, fought hand to hand

in close engagement. Cariovalda sustained the shock

with undaunted valour. Finding himself, at length,

in danger of being overpowered, he exhorted his men

to form in platoons, and bravely opened a passage

through the ranks of the enemy. He rushed forward

into the heat of the action; but his horse being killed,

he fell under a shower of darts, and died sword in

hand. Several of the prime nobility of his country

perished with him. The rest found their safety ei­

ther in their own valour or the timely succour of

Stertinius aud iEniilhis, who came up with the cavalry.

XII. Germanicus, in the mean lime, having passed

