A. P. 14.] 9 OF TACITUS.

countable to the sovereign only, was a branch of the

imperial prerogative: and if Tiberius departed from it,

he ceased to reign.

VII. At Rome, in the mean time, all things tended

to a state of abject servitude. Consuls, senators, and

Roman knights contended with emulation, who should

be the most willing slaves. The higher each person's

rank, the more he struggled for the foremost place in

bondage. All appeared with a studied countenance.

An air of gaiety might dishonour the memory of Au­

gustus, and sadness would ill bent the opening of a

new reign. A motley farce was acted; and grief and

joy, distress and flattery, succeeding by turns, were

curiously mixed and blended. The oath of fidelity to

Tiberius was taken first by the two consuls, Sextus

Pompeius and Sextus Apuleius, and by them adminis­

tered to Seius Strabo and Caius Turraruus; the for­

mer, prefect of the prsetorian bands ; the latter, con­

troller of the corn and public stores. Their example

was followed by the senate, the army, and the mass of

the people.

To make every thing move from the consuls, was

the policy of Tiberius. He affected the appearance

of republican principles, as if the constitution still

subsisted, and he himself had formed no design to

destroy it. The very proclamation, by which he

convened the senate, professed no other authority

than that of the tribunitian power conferred upon

him by Augustus. The proclamation itself was

short, and penned in modest terms; importing, that

44 the business of the meeting was, to decree funeral

" honours to his debased father: as to himself, he

" could not leave the body; that office of piety was

" the only function that he presumed to exercise."

This was, indeed, the language of moderation; but

Augustus was no sooner dead, than he assumed the

supreme authority: in his character of imperator, he

took upon him the whole military command; he gave

the word to the pretorian guards: sentinels were sta­

tioned round the palace; the soldiers appeared under

arms; the magnificence of a court was seen in all its

forms; guards attended him to the forum; guards

