A. D. 16.] 91 OF TACITUS.

proud of their exploits, and in their late success losing

the memory of past misfortunes. The prince, with

that munificence that graced his character, paid to

each soldier the amount of his loss. Meanwhile the

Germans, weakened and disheartened by the ill suc­

cess of so many efforts, began to think of pacific mea­

sures; nor was it doubted but another summer, if

they dared to take the field, would complete and end

the war. But Tiberius wished for nothing so much

as the return of Germanicus. His letters were all to

that effect. " It was time," he said, " to visit the

" capital, and enjoy the honours of a triumph already

decreed. Enough had been performed. The pros-

" perous events of war were balanced by misfortunes.

" Important battles had been fought, and victory had

" often attended the Roman arms; but the winds and

" waves conspired; and losses at sea, not indeed im-

" putable to the general, were very heavy disasters.

» Tiberius added, that he himself, under the auspices

w of Augustus, had been sent nine times into Germa-

wny; but it was to prudent counsels, more than to

* force of arms, that he owed all his success. It was

* by policy that the Sicambrians were wrought to a

* submission; it was by management that the Sue-

* vians were drawn into an alliance with Rome; and*

* it was the same conduct that made Maroboduus  
u listen to terms of peace. The honour of the Roman

" name was now revived in all its ancient lustre; and

" it was therefore time to leave the Cheruscans, and

" the hostile states of Germany, to their own dissen-

" sions."

Germanicus, notwithstanding these remonstrances^

requested leave to continue in the command for one

year more. Tiberius was not to be diverted from his

purpose. He plied Germanicus with new arguments,

and, as a lure to young ambition, threw out the offer

of a second consulship, which required personal at­

tendance at Rome. He urged, moreover, that if the

war continued, some share of merit ought to be left

to Drusus, the brother of Germanicus, for whom no

other field of glory could be found. It was in Germa­

ny only that Drusus could acquire the title of Imps­

