A.D. 19.] ~ OF TACITUS. 125

peror could prejudge the cause : the guilt or the in­

nocence of men must arise out of the facts. He add­

ed, that Rhescuporis would do well to release his

nephew^ and make the best of his way to Rome, in

order to fix the criminality where it ought to fall. A

letter to this effect from the emperor was forwarded to

the Thracian king of Latinius Pandus, prsetor of My-

sia. A band of soldiers went at the same time, to

demand that Cotys should be delivered into their cus­

tody. Rhescuporis, divided between hope and fear,

fluctuated for some time : he choose, at length, rather

to answer for an actual crime, than for the bare inten­

tion. He murdered Cotys, and spread a report that

he died by his own hand. Tiberius heard the news

without emotion, determined still to pursue his plan

of fraud and treachery. Latinius Pandus died in the

interval. Rhescuporis had always represented him

as his inveterate enemy, but the government of Mysia

being now vacant, Tiberius gave the administration

of the province to Pomponius Flaccus, a man of mili­

tary experience, and upon the best terms with Rhes-

i cuporis. A friend, he knew, might prove in the end

the most fatal enemy. That consideration determined

lis choice.

LXVII. Flaccus, without loss of time, arrived in

Thrace. He found Rhescuporis in a,state of violent

agitation, conscious of his guilt, and overwhelmed

with doubt and fear. He soothed him with gracious

words, and by plausible promises inveigled him to

hazard his person within the lines of a Roman garri­

son. Pretending there to do honour to the prince, he

appointed a guard to attend him. The tribunes and

centurions enticed him to go forward under their pro­

tection; till having drawn him a considerable way,

they avowed their purpose, and Rhescuporis found

that he was a prisoner in close custody. Ho was

conducted to Rome, where the widow of Cotys ac­

cused him before the senate. His guilt was manifest ,.

the senate decreed that he should pass the remainder

of his days at a distance from his dominions. The

kingdom of Thrace was once more divided. Rha3-

metaloes, son of the deposed king, and always adverse

L2

