A. D. 19.] 137 OF TACITUS.

of antiquity would be sufficient honour. The eques足

trian order came to a resolution, that the troop called

the youthful squadron should for the future take its

name from Germanicus; and that his image should

be carried at the head of their annual cavalcade, on

the ides of July. Of these several institutions, many

are still subsisting; some fell into disuse; and others

by length of time have been abolished.

LXXXIV. While the tears of the public,still flowed

for Germanicus, Livia, the sister of that prince, and

the wife of Drusus, was delivered of two sons at a

birth. In families of inferior rank, events of this kind

are rare, and always matter of joy. Tiberius was

transported beyond measure. He had the vanity to

boast before the senate, that so singular a blessing had

never happened to any Roman of equal dignity. It

was the policy of that subtle spirit to extract from

every occurrence, and even from chance, something

that tended to his own glory. The people, however,

did not sympathize with the emperor. They saw,

with regret, the family of Drusus increasing, and that

of Germanicus in danger of being eclipsed.

IjXXXV. In the course of this year, several decrees

against the licentiousness of female manners passed

the senate. It was ordained by a law, that no woman

whose grandfather, father or husband was a Roman

knight, should be allowed to make her person venal.

The profligacy of Vistilia, descended from a father of

praetorian rank, gave rise to this regulation. She pre足

sented herself before the sediles, and in form made a

public profession of lewdness, according to> the rule

established in ancient times, when women, registered

as harlots by the magistrate, had the privilege of lead足

ing a life of debauchery. The principle of that law

was, that the very act of professing the character of

a prostitute would be a punishment, and perhaps

operate as a restraint. Titideus Labeo, the husband

of Vistilia, was cited to assign a reason why so aban足

doned a woman had not been brought to condign

punishment. To exculpate himself, he alleged that

the sixty days, allowed by law for the consultations

necessary in matters of that nature, were not elapsed.

M2

