A. D. i8.] OF TACITUS. in

popularity, insomuch that he was hailed the Father

of the Legions.

His wife Plancina forgot the decencies of the female

character. She attended the troops in the field, she

reviewed'the cavalry; she railed with spleen and ma­

lice against Agrippina, and did not even spare Ger-

manieus. This behaviour, it was generally believed,

had the approbation and countenance of Tiberius.

The consequence was, that not only the weak and

profligate were alienated from Germanicus, but even

the men of sober conduct, who were inclined to re­

main in their duty, went in a short time to pay their

homage to the favourites of the emperor.

LVI. Germanicus was fully apprised of these pro­

ceedings ; but Armenia claimed his first attention. He

hastened without loss of time to regulate the affairs

of that kingdom, where caprice and levity marked the

national character, and the situation of the country

encouraged the inconstancy of the people. Armenia

borders a great length of way upon the Roman pro­

vinces; then stretches, to a vast extent, as far as the

territory of the Medes. Hemmed in by two great em­

pires, that of Parthia and of Rome, the Armenians

are never steady to either; but. with their natural

levity, alternately at variance with each; with the

Romans, from rooted aversion; with the Parthians,

from motives of ambition, and national jealousy. In

the present juncture, the throne was vacant. Vo-

nones being expelled, the wishes of the people were

fixed on Zeno, the son of Polemon, king of Pontus.

The young prince had shown, from his earliest youth,

a decided inclination to Armenian manners. The

sports of the chase were his favourite amusement; he

delighted in carousing festivals, and all the pastimes

of savage life. For these qualities he was high in

esteem, not only with the populace, but also the

grandees of the nation. In this disposition of men's

minds, Germanicus entered the city of Artaxata, and,

amidst the acclamations of the people, placed the

diadem on the head of Zeno. The Armenians paid

homage to their new master, in the ardour of their

zeal proclaiming him king, by the name of Artaxias,

