A. D. 14.] OF TACITUS. 31

lately joined the army. Upon the first intelligence

of the death of Augustus, these men, long addicted

to licentiousness, and averse from labour, began to

practise upon the ruder minds of their fellow soldiers.

The time, they said, was come, when the veterans

might claim their dismission from the service; when

the young soldier might augment his pay; when the

army in general might redress their grievances, and

retaliate the cruelty of the centurions. It was not,

as in Pannonia, a single Pereennius that inflamed the

mutiny; nor weie these arguments urged to men who

saw on every side of them superior armies, and of

course trembled while they mediated a revolt. There

were numbers of busy incendiaries, and many mouths

to bawl sedition. Their doctrine was, that the fate

of Rome was in their hands; by their victories the

empire flourished; by their valour Germany was sub足

dued; and from the country which they had con足

quered, the emperors of Rome were proud to derive

a title to adorn their names.

XXXII. Csecina saw the danger, but made no ef足

fort to suppress it. The malcontents were numerous,

and their frenzy above all control; insomuch that the

general no longer retained, his usual firmness. The

tumult broke out at once: the soldiers fell upon the

centurions, the old and lasting cause of military dis足

content, and in every insurrection the first to fall a

sacrifice. They seized their victims, and without

mercy dashed them on the ground; in every legion

the centurions amounted to sixty; an equal number

fell on each of them. The soldiers laid on with their

cudgels; they wounded, maimed, and mangled their

devoted officers; and, to complete their vengeance,

cast them dead, or ready to expire, over the intrench-

Wents. Numbers were thrown into the Rhine. One

in particular, by name Septimius, fled to the tribunal;

and clasping the knees of his general, hoped there to

find a sanctuary. The soldiers demanded him with

contumacy, and Csecina was obliged to give him to

their fury. Cassius Chserea the same who afterwards

immortalized his name by the death of Caligula, was

