A. D. 19.] OF TACITUS. 139

row limits. What topic could be safely handled?

The emperor was the enemy of civil liberty, and he

detested flattery.

LXXXVUI. In the memoirs of some of the senators

of that day, and also in the works of contemporary

writers, mention, 1 find, is made of letters from Ad-

gandestrius, prince of the Cattians, which were read

in the senate. They contained a proposal to despatch

Arminius, provided poison for that purpose were sent

from Rome. The answer was magnanimous: the

German was told that the Roman people were in the

habit of waging war, not by fraud and covert strata­

gem, but sword in hand, and in the field of battle. In

this instance, Tiberius vied with the generals of an­

cient Rome, who with scorn rejected the scheme of

poisoning Pyrrhus, and even delivered up the traitor

who harboured that base design.

Arminius, however, did not long survive. The Ro­

man army being withdrawn from Germany, and Ma-

roboduus ruined, he had the ambition to aim at *he

sovereign power. The independent spirit of his

countrymen declared against him. A civil war en­

sued. Arminius fought with alternate vicissitudes of

fortune, and fell at last by the treachery of his own

relations: a man of warlike genius, and, beyond all

question, the deliverer of Germany. He had not, like

the kings and generals of a former day, the infancy

of Rome to cope with; he had to struggle with a

great and flourishing empire; he attacked the Ro­

mans in the meridian of their glory. He stood at bay

for a number of years with equivocal success; some­

times victorious, often defeated, but in the issue of the

war still unconquered. He died at the age of seven-

and-thirty, after twelve years of fame and power. In

'the rude poetry of the barbarians, his name is cele­

brated to this hour; unknown indeed to the annalists

of Greece, who embellish nothing but their own story.

Even amongst the Romans, the character of this illus­

trious chief has met with little justice, absorbed as

the people are in their veneration of antiquity, while

to the virtue of their own times they remain insensi­

ble and incurious.

