156 THE ANNALS [A. U. C. 773.

their defeat, to undertake a siege, changed his plan

of operations. He chose a roving kind of war; if

the Romans advanced, quick in retreat, and, as soon

as the pursuit was over, wheeling round to hang upon

the rear. By this desultory mode of skirmishing, the

wily African baffled and fatigued the Roman army,

till having ravaged the country near the sea-coast, and

loaded his men with booty, he was obliged to pitch

his camp. In that situation Apronius Csesianus, son

of the proconsul, at the head of the cavalry, the auxi­

liary cohorts, and a body of light infantry, draughted

from the legions, gave battle to the Numidian, and,

having gained a complete victory, obliged him to fly

to his wilds and deserts. .

XXII. At Rome, in the rr *n time, a prosecution

was carried on against Lepida, a woman of illustrious

birth, descended from the ^milian family, and great

grand-daughter both to Sylla and Pompey. She was

married to Publius Quirinius, a citizen of great wealth,

far advanced in years, but without children to inherit

his estate. The wife was charged with an attempt

to pass a supposititious child for his legitimate issue.

Other articles were added; such as adultery, dealing

in poison, and consultations with Chaldean astrolo­

gers concerning the fate of the imperial family. Her

brother, Manius Lepidus, undertook her defence.

Quirinius had repudiated her; and yet, after his di­

vorce, attacked her with implacable resentment.

This circumstance, notwithstanding the guilt and in­

famy of Lepida, rendered her an object of compassion.

In the course of the proceeding, the real sentiments

of Tiberius eluded all discovery. Fluctuating between

opposite passions, he mixed and shifted mercy and re­

sentment in such quick succession, that where he

would fix it was impossible to guess. He desired that

the crime of violated majesty might bo thrown out of

the case, and in a short time after, ordered Marcus

Servilius, of consular rank, and the rest of the wit­

nesses, to prove the very facts over which he pre­

tended to draw a veil. He removed the slaves of

Lepida, who had been placed under a military guard,

to the custody of the consuls; nor would he suffer

