, .'. , \ i •: 772.

atisfied with the answer, the fathers thought it suf- J

3ient to proceed against the adultress. She was ba- I

ished to the isle of Seriphos. The Egyptian and I

ewish ceremonies were the next subject of debate.

j a decree of the senate, four thousand of that de­

ception, the descendants' of enfranchised slaves, all

I ifected with foreign superstition, and of age to carry

:i rms, were transported to the island of Sardinia, to

Make war upon the freebooters, who plundered the

[habitants, and ravaged the country. If the whole

umber died in that unwholesome climate, the loss, it

as said, would be of no kind of moment. The re­

naming sectaries were ordered, at a certain day, to

epart out of Italy, unless before that time they re-

ounced their impious worship.

LXXXVI. The choice of a vestal virgin, in the

oom of Occia, who had been, with the greatest sanc-

ty of manners, president of the order during the

pace of seven-and-fifty years, was by Tiberius re-

jrred to the senate. Fonteius Agrippa, and Domi-

tus Pollio, made each of them an offer of his daugh-

3r. The emperor commended their zeal for the i

ublic service. The daughter of Pollio was preferred,

ler mother had never known but one husband, and,

till continuing to live with him, gave an example of

onjugal fidelity; whereas the divorce of Agrippa was

considered as a blemish in the family. That reason,

tnd that only, determined the present choice. The

epulse of the disappointed candidate was softened by

i present of a thousand great sesterces, granted by

Tiberius.

LXXXVII. To appease the clamours of the people

about the exhorbitant price of corn, the sum to be j

laid by the purchaser was ascertained, Tiberius un­

dertaking to grant a bounty of two sesterces on the

neasure, as an encouragement to the vendor. On

this, as on former occasions, he refused the title of

Father of his. Country. He even censured, with ,

i degree of asperity, the zeal of those who gave him !

the appellation of Lord and Master, and wanted to 1

dignify his administration with the epithet bf Divine.

In this manner, eloquence was confined within nar-

