124 THE ANNAI^ [A. U. C. 772.

prominent features of Rhescuporis. The princes pre­

served at first a show of mutual concord; in time

Rhescuporis began to encroach on his nephew, not

indeed with open violence, as he knew that Augustus,

the founder of both kingdoms, might likewise prove

the avenger of wrongs. During that emperor's life,

he concealed his designs; but he no sooner heard that

Rome had changed masters, than he threw off the

mask and avowed his ambition. With a band of

freebooters he ravaged the country, razed to the

ground the strong holds and castles, and by every

act of hostility provoked a war.

LXV. To keep things, which were once settled, in

the same unaltered state, was the principal care that

occupied the anxious spirit of Tiberius. He despatch­

ed a centurion to restrain the Thracian kings from an

open rupture. Cotys disbanded his forces. Rhescu­

poris resolved to act with craft and subtlety. He pro­

posed a conference which, he had no doubt, would

terminate all their differences. The time and place

were fixed: a negotiation was opened, both pridces

seeming willing to remove all difficulties. Cotyj

brought to the meeting a conciliating spirit; the un­

cle meditated a stroke of perfidy. To ratify the pre­

liminaries, he proposed a banquet. The parties met,

and protracted their festivity to a late hour of the

night. Amidst the joys of wine, and in the moment

of revelry, Rhescuporis attacked his nephew, unsus­

pecting and unprovided. The deluded prince urged

in vain the rights of kings, the laws of hospitality, and

the gods of their forefathers. He was loaded with

irons. His treacherous uncle made himself master of

all Thrace; and immediately sent despatches to in­

form Tiberius that a dangerous conspiracy against

his life had been defeated by timely vigilance. In the

mean time, under colour of an enterprise against the

Basternians and the Scythians, he made levies of

hflrse and foot, determined, at all events, to be pre­

pared for a defensive war.

LXVI. Tiberius returned for answer, that his con­

duct, if found to be free from reproach, would be his

best protection; but neither the senate nor the em­

