118 THE ANNALS [A.U.C. 771

in allusion to the place of his coronation. About the

same time, the Cappadocians, who had been reduced I

to the form of a province, received Quintus Veranius

as their governor. The first measure of his adminis­

tration was, to remit part of the taxes heretofore paid

to their kings; that from so mild a beginning, the

people might conceive a favourable idea of Roman

moderation. The Comagenians, in like manner, sub­

mitted to the government of a prsetor, and Quintus

Servseus was appointed to the office.

LVII. In this manner tranquillity was established

in the east. The events were important, and such as

might have given Germanicus reason to congratulate

himself; but his joy was poisoned by the repeated

hostilities and the insolence of Fiso. This man had

orders to march with a detachment of the legions into

Armenia, or, at his option, to give the command to

his son. He complied in neither instance. The

prince met him at Cyrrum, the winter quarters of the

tenth legion. At that place they came to an inter­

view, both with countenances adjusted to the occa- :

sion. Piso with an air of intrepidity, still disdaining

a superior; and Germanicus with the serenity of a

man, who wished to stifle his resentment. The gen­

tle qualities of his nature inclined him at all times to

moderation; but his friends, with the ulSual talent of

men who love to make bad worse, inflamed the quar­

rel. They aggravated what was true; they gave

colour to falsehood ; and omitted nothing to the disad­

vantage of Piso, Plancina, and their sons.

In the presence of a few select friends, Germanicus

came to an explanation : his language was in that

measured style, which anger and prudence, combating

each other, usually inspire. Piso made an arrogant

apology. The meeting broke up, and both retired

with smothered resentment. From this time Piso

rarely attended the tribunals of justice: whenever he

appeared in court, his countenance plainly discovered

ill-will, and sullen discontent. At a banquet given

by the Nabathean king, a sudden expression fell from

him, and betrayed his real temper. Golden crowns

were presented to the company; two, for Germanicus

