A. D. 15.] 51 OF TACITUS.

lately raised, by hasty levies, on this side of the Rhine.

He marched himself at the head of an equal legion­

ary force, and double the number of auxiliaries. On

the ruins of a fort, formerly built on Mount Taurus

by his father Drusus, he raised a fortification, and

proceeded by rapid marches against the Cattians. To

secure his retreat, he left behind him Lucius Apro-

nius, with orders to work at the roads, and embank

the rivers. The dryness of the season, uncommon in

those parts, and the low bed of waters in the rivers,

favoured his expedition; but, before his return, the fall

of heavy rains, and the overflow of torrents, might

lay the country under water. His arrival was so lit­

tle expected by the Cattians, that their women and

children were either taken prisoners, or put to the

sword. The young and able-bodied made their escape

by swimming across the Adrana. From the opposite

liank they attemped to hinder a bridge from being

thrown over the river; but by a fierce discharge from

the engines, and a volley of darts, they were driven

from their post. They offered terms of peace, but

without success. Numbers submitted at discretion:

the rest abandoned their villages, and fled for shelter

into the woods. The country round was laid waste;

Mattium, the capital, was destroyed by fire; and the

open plains were made a desert. Germanicus marched

his army back towards the Rhine, the barbarians never

daring to harass the rear, as is their practice, when

pretending to retreat in a panic, they wheel about on

a sudden, and return to the charge. The Cheruscans

meditated a sudden attack in favour of the Cattians;

but Csecina, with an army of observation, spread so

warm an alarm, that the enterprise was dropt. The

Marsians, more bold and desperate, risked a battle,

and were defeated.

LVII. Germanicus, in a short time afterwards, re-'

ceived a message from Segestes, imploring protection

from the fury of his countrymen, who held him closely

besieged. Arminius had been the adviser of the war,

and was by consequence the idol of the people. In a

nation of savages, the man of fierce and turbulent

spirit is sure, in times of commotion to be the leading

