A. D. 20.] 161 OF TACITUS.

to the rage of legislation. But the respite was but

short. The fiery genius of Lepidus preferred a num­

ber of seditious decrees, and the tribunes of the peo­

ple, resuming their ancient powers, alarmed the state

with tumult and popular commotions. The general

good was no longer thought of: new characters ap­

peared in the great scene of public business, and new

statutes were enacted. In a corrupt republic vice in­

creased, and laws were multiplied.

XXVIII. Pompey at length, in his third consulship,

was chosen to correct abuses, and introduce a refor­

mation of manners. His remedies were more perni­

cious than the mischief. He made laws, and broke

them; he had recourse to arms, and by force of arms

was ruined. From that time, during a period of

twenty years, the rage of civil discord threw every

thing into confusion. Justice was silent; tho man­

ners were corrupted; vice triumphed with impunity,

and virtue met with sure destruction. At length,

Augustus in his sixth consulship, finding himself esta­

blished without a rival, repealed the acts passed by

himself during the triumvirate, and gave a new sys­

tem, useful indeed to the public tranquillity, but sub­

versive of the constitution; fit only for the govern­

ment of one. The chains of slavery were closely

riveted, and spies of state were appointed. To ex­

cite and animate the diligence of those new o'fFicers,

the law Papia Poppsea held forth rewards. By that

law, the people, under the fiction of universal parent,

were declared heirs to the vacant possessions of

such as lived in celibacy, regardless of the privileges

annexed to the paternal character. To enforce this

regulation, informers were encouraged. The genius

of those men knew no bounds: they harassed the

city of Rome, and stretched their harpy-hands all

over Italy. Wherever they found a citizen, they

found a man to be plundered. Numbers were ruin­

ed, and all were struck with terror. To stop the pro­

gress of the mischief, Tiberius ordered a set of com­

missioners, to be drawn by lot; five of consular rank,

five prsetorians, and a like number from the body of

the seriate. Under their direction the law was ex­

0^1

