1C THE ANNALS [A.U.C.767.

said, " or to decline any part, would ill become the

" man who wished to be dispensed with altogether."

Gallus saw displeasure working in his countenance.

With quickness and presence of mind he made an­

swer, " The question was not put with intent to di-

" vide what in its nature is united and indivisible. I

" appealed to your own feelings. I wished to draw

" from you a confession, that the commonwealth, be-

" ing one body politic, requires one mind to direct

" it." To this he added a panegyric on the charac­

ter of Augustus; he expatiated on the victories ob­

tained by Tiberius, and the civil employments which

he had filled, with honour to himself, during a series

of years. But this soothing strain had no effect. The

resentment of Tiberius was not to be pacified.

Asinius Gallus had married Vipsania, the daughter

of Marcus Agrippa, after her divorce from Tiberius.

By that connexion he seemed to aspire above the

rank of a citizen; and the spirit of his father, Asinius

Pollio, was still living in the son.

XIII. Lucius Arruntius delivered his sentiments,

nearly the same as Gallus had offered, and in like

manner gave offence. Tiberius harboured in his

breast no lurking sentiment to Arruntius; but he

was jealous of a man, whom he saw flourishing in

opulence, an ardent spirit, possessed of talents, and

high in the esteem of the public. Augustus, more­

over, in a conversation not long before his death,

talking of the succession to the imperial dignity, dis­

tinguished three several classes; in the first, he placed

such as were worthy, but would decline the honour;

in the se'cond, men of ambition, but of inferior talents;

in the last, such as had genius to plan, and courage

to undertake. Marcus Lcpidus, he said, was every

way qualified, but unwilling; Asinius Gallus had

more ambition than merit; Lucius Arruntius was not

only equal to the task, but, if occasion oft'ered, would

show a spirit of enterprise. Of this anecdote, with

regard to the two first, no doubt remains; but instead

of Arruntius, Cneius Piso, by some writers, is said to

have been named. Except Lepidus, they were after­

wards all cut off for constructive crimes, artfully laid

