OF TACITUS. 7

" from his youth to the pomp and pride of consulships

" and triumphs. During the years which he passed

" in a seeming retreat, but real exile, in the isle of

" Rhodes, he meditated nothing so much as plans of

" future vengeance, clandestine pleasures, and the arts

" of dissimulation." To these reflections the public

added their dread of a mother, raging with all the im­

potence of female ambition: a whole people, they said,

were to be enslaved by a woman, and two young men,

who in the beginning would hang heavy on the state,

and in the end distract and rend it to pieces by their

own dissensions.

V. While these and other observations of a similar

nature employed the public mind, the health o'f Au­

gustus declined apace. The wickedness of his wife

was not supposed to remain inactive. A rumour pre­

vailed, that Augustus had gone a few months before,

in a private manner, with a select party, and Fabius,

Maximus, his confidential friend, to the island of Pla-'

nasia, on a visit to Agrippa. The meeting was said

to be of the tenderest nature: tears were shed by both,

and a scene of mutual affection followed. From that

interview hopes were conceived, that the young prince

would be once more restored to the favour and pro­

tection of his grandfather. The secret soon transpired:

Fabius communicated the whole to his wife Marcia,

and by her it was conveyed fo Livia. Augustus knew

that he had been betrayed. Maximus died soon after,

perhaps, by his own hand: but of that nothing can be

said with certainty. At his funeral Marcia was heard,

in the vehemence of distress and sorrow, to accuse

herself of being accessary to the death of her husband.

However that may be, Tiberius had scarcely set foot

in Illyricum when he received despatches from his

mother, requiring his immediate presence. He ar­

rived at Nola: but whether Augustus was still living,

or breathed his last, must be left in doubt. By Livia's

order the palace and all the avenues were closely

guarded : favourable accounts were issued from time

to time; and with that artifice mankind was amused

till all proper measures were concerted. At length

