A. D. 16.] 83 OF TACITUS.

4» their men may, at first shfht, be hideous; in the

" onset they may have bodily vigour: but let them

44 feel the anguish of their wounds, and they betake

l4 themselves to flight, impatient of pain, void of ho-

" nour, and regardless of their officers; cowards in ad-

" versity, and, in the hour of success, above all laws,

" both human and divine. Do you wish, my fellow-

" soldiers, for an end of all your toils? Are you weary

" of tedious voyages, and laborious marches? Now is

"your opportunity: one battle ends the war. The

" Elbe is nearer than the Rhine. Beyond this spot

" we have nothing to subdue. It was here that Dru-

" bus, my father, triumphed; and here, Tiberius, my

M uncle, reaped his laurels. Exert one vigorous effort,

" and you make me their rival, perhaps their equal in

" glory." This speech was received with acclama­

tions ; and the ardour of the men blazing out at once,

the signal for the charge was given.

XV. Arminius and the German chiefs omitted

nothing that could rouse the courage of their men.

"Behold," they said, "the refuse of the Varian ar-

"my; a set of dastards in the field, and rebels in

" their camp. With their backs seamed with stripes,

" their limbs enervated, their strength exhausted by

" tempestuous voyages, dispirited, weak, and void of

* hope, they are given to our swords, a sacrifice to  
" the gods, and the victims of German valour. To

" avoid a fiercer enemy they fled to the ocean, where

" we could neither attack, nor hang upon their rear.

"In the ensuing battle the winds cannot befriend

" them ; their oars can give them no assistance. Call

"to mind their pride,their avarice, and their cruelty;

" above all, let us remember to act like men, who

"have resolved to live in freedom, or to die with

" glory."

XVI. By these and such like incentives the Ger­

mans were inflamed with uncommon ardour. The

chiefs conducted them, burning with impatience, to

an open plain, called the Idistavisian vale, situate

between the Visurgis and a chain of mountains. The

ground was of an irregular form, narrow in some

parts, where the hills projected forward, and in

