A. D. 21.] 175 OF TACITUS.

low. At the distance of twelve miles from Augusto-

dunum, Sacrovir appeared in' force. His line of

battle was formed on the open plain. The gladiators,

in complete armour, were stationed in the centre; his

cohorts in the two wings, and his half-armed multi­

tude in the rear. He was himself mounted on a su­

perb horse, attended by a number of chiefs. He rode

through the ranks, haranguing his men: he called to

mind the glory of their ancestors, their brave exploits

against the Romans, and the eternal honour of suc­

ceeding in the cause of liberty. A defeat, he said,

would bring with it infamy, and chains, and bondage.

XLVI. The speech was short, and the soldiers

heard it without emotion. The legions advanced in

regular order. A band of raw recruits, lately levied

in the towns of Gaul, could not sustain a sight so

terrible. The faculties of eyes and ears were lost in

confusion. By the Romans victory was already an­

ticipated. To exhort them was unnecessary, yet Si-

lius thought proper to inflame their ardour. " The

" disgrace," he said, " would be great, if the victo-

" rious legions, who had conquered in Germany,

" were now to consider the Gauls as an equal enemy.

" The rebels of Tours have been chastised by a single

"cohort; a detachment of the cavalry crushed the

" insurgents at Treves; and a handful of this very

" army gave the Sequanians a total overthrow. The

" jEduans are now before you; not an army, but an

" effeminate race, abounding in wealth, and enervated

" by luxury. Charge with valour, and to pursue the

" runaways will be your only trouble." This speech

was received with a general shout. The rebels were

soon hemmed in by the cavalry: the front of their

line gave way at the first onset of the infantry, and

the wings were put to flight. The men in iron ar­

mour still kept their ranks. No impression could be

made by swords and javelins. The Romans had re­

course to their hatchets and pickaxes. With these,

as if battering a wall, they fell upon the enormous

load and crushed both men and armour. Some at­

tacked with clubs and pitchforks. The unwieldy and

defenceless enemy lay on the ground, an inanimate

