38 THE ANNALS [A.U. C. 767.

"in force, and with proper assistance the mutiny

" might have been crushed at once. By dismissions

" from the service, by largesses, and other feeble men-

" sures, the disturbances were too much encouraged.

" If the general set no value on his own life, why neg-

" lect the safety of his infant son? Why hazard among

" lawless men, who had violr.ted every sacred right,

" an affectionate wife, at that time far advanced in

"her pregnancy? Those tender pledges were the pro-

" perty of the state, and should be restored to the em-

"peror and the commonwealth." Germanicus yielded

to these remonstrances; but the consent of Agrippina

was still to be obtained. Descended from Augustus

she insisted that the grand-daughter of that emperor

had not so far degenerated, as to shrink from danger.

Germanicus continued to urge his request; he melted

into tears; he clasped her in his arms; he embraced

her infant son, and at length prevailed. A procession

of disconsolate women moved slowly on; and with

them the wife of the commander in chief, compelled

to be a wanderer, with her infant son in her arms. A

band of wretched women, driven forth from their hus足

bands, attended in her train. Amongst those whom

they left behind, the scene of distress was not less af足

fecting.

XLI. The camp presented a mournful spectacle.

Instead of a Roman general at the head of his legions,

instead of Germanicus in all the pomp and pride of

authority, the face of things resembled a city taken

by storm. Nothing was heard but shrieks and lamen足

tations. The soldiers listened; they came forth from

their tents; they stood astonished at the sight: and,

" Why," they said, " wherefore those notes of sor-

"row? What means that mournful spectacle? A train

"of noble matrons deserted, left to themselves, aban足

doned by all! no centurion, not so much as a sol-

" dier, to accompany them! The wife of the general,

"undistinguished in the crowd, without a guard, and

" without the train of attendants suited to her rank,

" proceeding on her way towards the people of Treves,

" to seek in a foreign state that protection, which was

"denied her in a Koman camp!" To these reflections

