A. D. 16.] CI OF TACITUS.

the Visurgis, found by a deserter, that Arminius had

already fixed upon the spot for a general action, and

being reinforced by other nations, then actually as­

sembled in a forest sacred to Hercules, was deter­

mined in the dea&of night to storm the Roman camp.

This intelligence was thought worthy of credit. The

fires of the enemy gleamed at a distance; the scouts,

who advanced to reconnoitre their posts, heard the

neighing of horses, and the bustle of a prodigious but

undisciplined multitude. In this important moment,

on the eve of a decisive battle, the Roman general

thought it a point of moment to explore the sentiments

and inclinations of his men. How to accomplish this,

with a degree of certainty, was a difficult point. " The

" tribunes and centurions studied more to bring in

" agreeable reports, than to relate the truth. The

" freedmen still retained an original leaven of servili-

" ty, and friends were prone to flattery. In an assem-

" bly of the soldiers, a few forward spirits took the

" lead, and the whole herd was ready to follow. To

" sound the real sentiments of the army, the soldier

" must be taken in his unguarded moments, removed

" from the eye of his officer, at table with his com-

" rades, when, with frank simplicity, he speaks his

" mind, and tells his hopes and fears without reserve."

XIII. As soon as night came on, the prince went

forth, through the augural gate, covered with the skin

of a wild beast. A single attendant followed him. He

pursued his way through devious paths, unknown to

the sentinels, stopping frequently near the tents, and

listening to his own fame. The nobility of his descent

was the topic with some; others praised the dignity

of his person: the greater part talked of his patience,

his courage, and that happy temperament, which,

upon all occasions, severe or lively, still preserved the

dignity of his character. To such a commander, the

place to show their gratitude was the field of battle;

there the barbarians ought to suffer for their perfidy;

arid there the violator of public treaties should be

doomed a sacrifice to the glory of Germanicus.

Amidst these discourses, a soldier from the adverse

camp, who could speak the Roman language, rode

