A. D.21.] OF TACITUS. 167

Valerius Messalinus; a man who derived from hia

father Messala, the celebrated orator, no inconsider­

able share of eloquence.. " The rigour," he said, " of

" ancient manners has taken a milder tone. The

" enemy is not at the gates of Rome, and the pro-

" vinces have no hostile intentions. In favour of the

" tender sex some concessions ought to be made,

" especially since it is now known by experience that

" the wife, so far from being a burden to the province,

" is scarcely felt in the private economy of the hus-

" band. She is no more than a sharer in his splen-

" dour and dignity. In time of peace what danger

" from her presence ? War, indeed, calls for vigour;

" and men should go unencumbered to the field.

" When the campaign is over, where can the general

" so well repose from toil and labour as in the bosom

" of a wife, whose tenderness relieves his pain, and

" sweetens every care ? But woman, it has been said,

" are prone to avarice and ambition; what shall be

" said of the magistrates? Have they always been

" free from irregular passions ? and if not, will it fol-

4' low that men are to be no longer trusted with the

" administration of the provinces ? We are told, that

" the vices of the wife have their influence on the

" manners of the husband : and is it therefore true,

" that in a life of celibacy we are sure of finding un-

" blemished honour ?

" The Oppian laws were formerly deemed expe-

" dient: the policy of the times required them; but

" the manners have varied since, and with the man-

" ners the law has been modified. We strive in vain,

" under borrowed terms, to hide our own defects : the

" truth is, if the wife exceeds the bounds of the female

" character, the blame falls on the husband. In two

" or three instances we may have seen that the men

" were weak and too uxorious: and shall we for that

"reason take from the commander of armies, the

" most endearing comforts of marriage, the mutual

" joy in prosperity, and, in affliction, the balm that

" heals his sorrows ? By the restraint now proposed,

" the weaker sex will be left in a state of destitution,

" the sport of their own caprice, and a prey to the

