32 [A. V. C. 767- THE ANNALS

then a centurion, in the vigour of youth, and of a

spirit to face every danger. He made head against

all assailants, and sword in hand cut his way through

their thickest ranks. From this time all was uproar

and wild commotion. No tribune gave orders, no>

prtBfect of the camp was heard. The leaders of the

mutiny appointed sentinels; they stationed the night,

watch, and gave directions as emergencies required.

One mind inspired the whole body; and this circum­

stance, in the judgment of those who best knew the

temper of the army, was the sure sign of a faction not

easy to be quelled. In separate bodies nothing was

done; no single incendiary took upon him to direct;

together they set up a general shout, and together all

were silent. Every thing moved in concert, and even

anarchy had the appearance of regular discipline.

XXXIII. Meanwhile Germanicus, engaged, as has

been mentioned, with the states of Gaul, received ad­

vice that Augustus was no more. He had married

Agrippina, the grand-daughter of that emperor, and

by her had several children. Drusus, the brother of

Tiberius, was his father, and of course Livia was his

grand-mother. Thus descended, and thus allied, he

lived in perpetual anxiety. The sullen aversion of

his uncle, and the secret malice of Livia, embittered

his days. The hatred with which they pursued him

was unjust; and, for that reason, unrelenting. The

fact is, Drusus was the delight of the Roman people;

they cherished his memory; persuaded that, if the

sovereign power had devolved on him, the old repub­

lic would have been restored. At his death, the af­

fections of mankind were transferred to his son. From

similar virtues the same conduct was expected. Pos­

sessed of popular talents, affable and obliging to all,

Germanicus presented a strong contrast to the harsh

temper and clouded aspect of Tiberius. The jealou­

sies that subsisted between the women, added fuel to

the flame; Livia beheld the wife of Germanicus with

the malice of a step-mother; and, in return, Agrip­

pina resented every thing with sensibility, perhaps

with indignation. But the tenderness of her affection,

