A. D. 15.] 71 OF TACITUS.

monstrated that " if the communication, by which the

" lake Velinus fell into the Nar, were obstructed, the.

" adjacent country would be laid under water. Na-

" ture had wisely provided for the interests of man;

" it was she that assigned to rivers their fountain-

" head, their proper channel, and their influx into the

" sea. Besides this, the religion of the allies of Rome

" claimed respect. Considering the rivers of their

"country as under the patronage of tutelary gods,

"they had in various places established forms of

"worship, and dedicated their priests, their altars,

" and their sacred groves. The Tiber too, deprived of

" his tributary waters, would be reduced, not without

"indignation, to an inglorious stream." Convinced by

this reasoning, or deterred by the difficulty of the

undertaking, perhaps influenced by superstitious mo­

tives, the senate went over to the opinion of Piso,

who declared against all innovation.

LXXX. The government of Msesia was continued

to Poppseus Sabinus, with the superadded provinces

of Achaia and Macedonia. In the character of Tibe-

)) rius it was a peculiar feature, that he was ever un­

willing to remove men from their employments.

Hence the same person remained for life at the head

of the same army, or in the government of the same

province. For this conduct different reasons have

been assigned. By some we are told that he hated

the pain of thinking; and, to a void further solicitude,

the choice which he once made, was decided for life.

Others will have it, that the malignity of his nature

was the secret motive of a man, who did not wish to

see too many made happy by his favours. The pro­

blem was solved by others in a different way. His

discernment, they observe, was quick and penetrating;

but his judgment slow and anxious. He thought with

subtlety, amd refined till he embarrassed himself; and

though he never was the patron of virtue, he de­

tested vice. Superior merit made him tremble for

1 himself, and he thought bad men a disgrace to the

age. In this manner divided between opposite ex»

tremes, thinking without decision, and reasoning but

to hesitate, he haa been known to appoint to the

