A. D. IS.] 67 OF TACITUS.

trade of an informer; that detestable trade, which, by

the iniquity of the limes, and the daring wickedness

of the vile and profligate, became afterwards the

source of wealth and splendour. Obscure and indi­

gent, but bold and pragmatical, this man by secret in­

formations pampered the cruelty of Tiberius, and

wriggled himself into favour. By his detestable prac­

tices he became formidable to the first characters in

Rome. He gained the ear of the prince, and the ha­

tred of mankind; leaving an example, by which the

whole race of his followers rose from beggary and

contempt to wealth and power; till, having wrought

the destruction of the most eminent citizens, they fell

at last by their own pernicious arts. The accusation

brought by Csepio Crispinus, charged Marcellus

with having spoken defamatory words against Tibe­

rius. The charge was big with danger, while the

accuser had the art to bring forward, from the life of

the emperor, the worst of his vices; ascribing all to

the malignity of Marcellus. The words were believed

to be spoken, because the facts were true.

Hispo, the pleader, added( that the accused had

placed his own statue higher than the Csesars; and to

a bust, from which he had struck off the head of Au­

gustus, united that of Tiberius. The prince, who had

hitherto remained silent, rose abruptly; declaring, in

a tone of vehemencs, that in a cause of that impor­

tance he would give his vote openly, and under the

sanction of an oath. By this expedient the same ob­

ligation was to be imposed on the whole assembly.

But even then, in that black period, expiring liberty

showed some signs of life. Cneius Piso had the spirit

to ask, " In what rank, Ceesar, do you choose to give

"your voice? If first, your opinion must be mine; if

" last, I may have the misfortune to differ from you."

Tiberius felt that his warmth had transported him too

far. He checked his ardour, and had the moderation

to consent that Marcellus should be acquitted on the

law of violated majesty. There remained behind a

charge of peculation, and that was referred to the

proper jurisdiction.

LXXV. The criminal proceedings before the senate

