A. D. 18.] 116 OF TACITUS.

LIV. From Athens Germanicus sailed to the island

of Eubcea, and thence to Lesbos, where Agrippina was

delivered of a daughter, called Julia, the last of her

children. From Lesbos he pursued his voyage along

the coast of Asia; and, after visiting Perinthus and

Byzantium, two cities of Thrace, sailed through the

straits of the Propontic, into the Euxine Sea, led by

curiosity to visit places renowned in story. In his pro­

gress he attended every where to the complaints of

the inhabitants, whom he found distracted by their

own intestine divisions, or labouring under the tyran­

ny of the magistrates. He redressed grievances, and

established good order, wherever he went.

On his return from the Euxine, he intended to visit

Samothraeia, famous for its rites and mysteries; but

the wind springing up from the north, he was obliged

to bear away from the coast. He viewed the ruins of

Troy, and the remains of antiquity in that part of the

world, renowned for so many turns of fortune, the

theatre of illustrious actions, and the origin of the

Roman people. He landed next at Colophon, to con­

sult the oracle of the Clarian Apollo. The responses

at this place were not delivered, like those at Delphos,

by a Pythian maid: a priest officiates, chosen by cus­

tom out of certain privileged families, and generally

a citizen of Miletus. From such as apply to him, he

requires nothing but their number and their names.

Content with these particulars, he descends into a

cavern; and, after drinking from a secret spring,

though untinctured with learning, and a stranger to

poetry, he breaks out in a strain of enthusiastic verse,

on the subject of every man's hopes and fears. He

is said to have foretold the approaching fate of Ger­

manicus, but in the oracular style, dark and enigma­

tical.

LV. Piso, in the mean time, impatient to execute

his evil purposes, made his entry into Athens, and

with the tumult of a rude and disorderly train, alarm­

ed the city. In a public speech he thought fit to de­

claim against the inhabitants, obliquely glancing at

Germanicus, who, he said, by ill-judged condescen­

sions, had impaired the dignity of the Roman name..

