A. D.22.] 183 OF TACITUS.

LVII. The senate was not taken by surprise : the

emperor's intention had been foreseen, and flattery

was ready with her servile strain. Invention, not­

withstanding, was at a loss for novelty. Statues were

decreed to Tiberius and his son; altars were raised to

the gods; temples were built, and triumphal arches

erected, with other honours of a similar nature. Mar­

cus Silanus aimed at something new. Willing, at the

expense of the consular dignity, to pay a compliment

to the princes, he proposed that, in all public and pri­

vate registers, the year should no longer take its date

from the names of the consuls, but from the persons

invested with the tribunitian power. Quintus Hate-

rius went still farther; he moved that the decrees of

that day should be fixed up in the senate-house in

letters of gold. His motion was treated with con­

tempt and ridicule. The fathers saw with indigna­

tion a superannuated senator, who, on the verge of

life, could incur present infamy, without a prospect

of future wages.

LVIII. Amidst these transactions, the government

of Africa was continued to Junius Blsesus. The

proconsulship of Asia, happening then to be vacant,

was demanded by Servius Maluginensis, the priest of

Jupiter. In support of his claim, he contended,

" that the inability of a priest, in his station, to go out

" of Italy, was a vulgar error. The order to which

" he belonged, differed in nothing from that of Mars

44 and Romulus. If the priest of the two last were

*' eligible to foreign governments, whence arose his  
" incapacity ? No prohibitory law was ever passed by

"the people; the books of religious ceremonies are

" silent on the subject. In particular cases, when the

" ministers of Jupiter were detained, either by illness

" or by public business, one of the pontiffs officiated

" in his place. After the tragical death of Cornelius

" Merula, a space of no less than seventy-six years

" elapsed, without any nomination to the office: did

" the interests of religion suffer in the mean time ?

" During that whole period, the sacerdotal function

" was suspended, without prejudice to the established

"worship; and why should not his absence be ex­

Q 2

