,THE ANNALS [A.U.C. 767.

made out for the veterans, and their money to be

forthwith discharged.

XXXVIII. Meanwhile a party of veterans belonging

3o the legions lately in commotion, but at that time

stationed in the territory of the Chajicians, discovered

the same spirit of disaffection; but the firmness of

Mennius, the prefect of the camp, suppressed the

mischief in its birth. He ordered two of the ringleaders

to be seized, and put to death; au act of severity not

strictly legal, but in some degree justified by necessi足

ty. He was obliged, however, to seek his safety by

flight. The soldiers pursued him. Being detected in

bis lurking-placs, he resolved, to face his enemies,

and depend upon his own bravery. "It is not," he

said, " against me, the prsefect of the camp, that this

" outrage is committed; it is treachery to Germani-

"cus; it is treason to the emperor." The leaders of

the mutiny were struck with terror. In that moment

he seized the standard, and turning towards the river,

declared, in a peremptory tone, that whoever quitted

his rank should surfer as a deserter. The whole body

marched into winter quarters, murmuring discontent,

but not daring to disobey.

XXXIX. During these transactions, the deputies of

the senate met Germanicus at the Ubian altar, on his

return from the Upper Rhine. Two legions, the first

and twentieth, were stationed at that place in winter

quarters; and, with them, the veterans lately ap足

pointed to follow the colours. To minds in their con足

dition, fluctuating between fear and conscious guilt,

every circumstance was a new alarm. The deputies

they were sure, came with instructions to revoke and

cancel the terms which violence had extorted. The

credulity of the common people never works by

halves; they believe without proof, and soon find the

author of what never happened. Munatius Plancus,

a senator of consular rank, and a principal person in

the embassy, was named as the framer of a decree,

that never existed but in the imagination of the sol足

diers. In the dead of the night they rushed in a body

to the head quarters of Germanicus, demanding, with

