that of Athens, by Solon, have been chiefly cele­

brated. In the latter, however, we see simplicity

giving way to complication and refinement. At Rome,

the reign of Romulus was the reign of despotism.

His will was the law. Numa Pompilius introduced

the rites and ceremonies of religion, and by establish­

ing forms of worship, strengthened the civil union.

Some improvements were added by Tullus Hostilius,

and some by Ancus Martius. But the true legislator

was Servius Tullius: the author of that best policy

which made even kings the subjects of the laws.

XXVII. After the expulsion of TaTquin, the peo­

ple, to secure their rights from powerful factions in

the senate, and to prevent the effects of civil discord,

,were obliged to modify the constitution by new regu­

lations. With this view, the decemvirs were created.

Those magistrates, by adopting from the wisdom of

other nations what appeared worthy of selection,

framed a body of laws entitled the Twelve Tables.,'

All sound legislation ended there. It is true that, af­

ter that time, new statutes were enacted; but, if we

except a few, suggested by the vices of the times, and

passed on the spur of the occasion, they were, for the

most part, made in the conflict of parties, and for the

worst of purposes; in some instances, to lay open to

ambition the road to honours; in others, to work the

downfall of illustrious citizens: and, in general, with

pernicious motives. Hence the Gracchi, and the Sa-

turnini, those turbulent demagogues; and hence the

violent spirit of Drusus, that famous partisan of the

senate, who, by largesses and open bribery, supported

the claims of the nobility, and by specious promises

induced the allies of Rome to espouse his cause, de­

ceiving them at first, and between the senate and the

popular leaders, making them in the end, the bubble

of contending factions. Hence a wild variety of con­

tradictory laws. In the social war, which involved

all Italy, and the civil commotions that followed, new

ordinances were established, but with the same con­

tentious spirit, till at length Lucius Sylla, the dicta­

tor, by repealing several laws, by amending others,

ini* "y or. ir' '114 a ode of his own, gave a chock

