A. D. 21.] OF TACITCS. 171

disciplined troops sat down before Philippopolis (a

city founded by Philip of Macedon,) and there held

Rhsemetalces closely besieged.

XXXIX. On the first intelligence of this revolt,

Publius Velleius, who commanded an army in the

neighbourhood, sent a detachment of horse and light

infantry in pursuit of the insurgents, who spread them­

selves over the country, either with a view to plun­

der, or to reinforce their numbers. He himself marched

in force to raise the siege. He was successful in

every quarter: the freebooters were put to the sword;

and dissensions breaking out among the besiegers,

Rhsemetalces made a sally in the moment when the

Roman army came up to his relief. The barbarians

abandoned the place. Of these events, however pros­

perous, there is no room to speak in the pomp of

military language: a rabble of savages, without dis­

cipline, and almost without weapons, cannot be called

an army; nor was that a battle, where the enemy was

cut to pieces, without the effusion of Roman blood.

XL. In the course of the same year a rebellion

broke out among the cities of Gaul, occasioned by the

load of debt that oppressed the common people. The

principal leaders of the revolt were Julius Floras and

Julius Sacrovir; the former a man of weight among

the Treveri, and the latter among the jEduans. They

were both of illustrious birth. Their ancestors had

deserved well of the Romans, and, for their services,

received the freedom of the city, at a time when that

privilege was rare, and the reward of merit only. By

these incendiaries secret meetings were held; the

fierce and daring were drawn into the league, toge­

ther with such as languished in poverty, or, being

conscious of their crimes, had nothing left but to grow

desperate in guilt. Florus undertook to kindle the

flame of rebellion in Belgia; and Sacrovir to rouse

the neighbouring Gauls. The plan thus settled, they

caballed in private, held frequent meetings, and left

no topic untouched that could inflame the minds of

the people. " Tributes," they said, " were levied

" with unabating rigour; usurious interest oppressed

" the poor, and their haughty masters continued to

