174 THE ANNALS [A. U. C. 774.

war; and the dispute continued till Varro, rmding

himself impaired by age, gave up the point to Silius,

who was then in the vigour of his days.

XLIV. Meanwhile a report prevailed at Rome, that

not only the /Eduans and the Treviri, but several

other cities of Gaul, to the number of sixty-four, had

thrown off the yoke. Germany, it was added, had

joined the league; and Spain was wavering. The

rumour, as usually happens, was magnified by the

credulity of the populace. Good men felt for their

country; the greater part, detesting the present sys­

tem, and wishing for nothing so much as a change,

enjoyed the confusion, and triumphed in the common

danger. Invective did not spare Tiberius. w In a

" difficult and alarming crisis, he was busy in settling

" the forms of some new prosecution. Did he mean

"to proceed by way of information against Julius

" Sacrovir? Was that chieftain to be accused of vio-

" lated majesty ? The revolt plainly showed that there

" still existed men of undaunted valour, who were

" resolved, at the point of the sword, to defy his let-

" ters written in blood to the senate; and war, with

" all its dangers, was preferable to a sanguinary

" peace, under a despotic tyrant." Amidst these

murmurs of discontent, Tiberius appeared with an

unruffled temper, never once changing his look, his

place of abode, or his habits of life. Is this to be as­

cribed to magnanimity ? or did he know by secret in­

telligence, that the whole was either false, or magni­

fied beyond the truth?

XLV. Silius, in the mean time, having sent before

him a body of auxiliaries, marched at the head of two

legions into the territory of the Sequanians, a people

at the extremity of Gaul, bordering on the jEduans,

and confederates in the war. He laid waste the coun­

try and proceeded, by rapid marches, to Augustodu-

num. Nothing could equal the ardour of the legions:

the standard-bearers with emulation gave every proof

of their alacrity; the common soldiers declared, with

one voice, that they wanted no repose: the night

ought not to be lost in sleep; let them but see the

enemy, they asked no more; victory was sure to fol­

