54 [A.U.C.768. THE ANNALS

LIX. The surrender of Segestes, and his gracious

reception from Germanicus, being in a short time

spread throughout Germany, the feelings of men

were various, as their inclinations happened to be for

peace or war. Arminius, by nature fierce and enter­

prising, seeing, in this juncture, his wife for ever lost,

and the child in her womb a slave before its birth,

felt himself inflamed with tenfold fury. He flew round

the country of the Cheruscans, spreading the flame of

discord, and in every quarter rousing the people to

revenge; he called aloud to arms, to arms against Se­

gestes, to arms against the Romans. He spared no

topic that could inflame resentment. " Behold," he

cried, " behold in Segestes the true character of a

"father! in Germanicus an accomplished general! in

" the exploits of the Roman army, the glory of a war-

"like nation! with mighty numbers they have led a

" woman into captivity. It was not in this manner

"that Arminius dealt with them: three legions, and

" as many commanders, fell a sacrifice to my revenge.

"To the arts of traitors I am a stranger; I wage

" no war with women big with child. My enemies

" are worthy of a soldier; I declare open hostility,

" and sword in hand I meet them in the field of bat-

" tie.

" Survey your religious groves: the Roman ban-

" ners by me hung up, and dedicated to the gods of

" our country, are there displayed; they are the tro-

" phies of victory. Let Segestes fly for shelter to

"the Roman provinces; let him enjoy his bank on

"the side of Gaul; and let him there meanly crouch

" to make his son the priest of a foreign altar. Pos-

"terity will have reason to curse his memory; fu-

" ture ages will detest the man, whose crime it is, that

" we have seen, between the Rhine and the Elbe, rods

" and axes, the Roman habit, and the Roman arms.

" To other nations, punishments and taxes are yet

" unknown; they are happy, for they are ignorant of

" the Romans. We have bravely thrown off the yoke;

"we are free from burthens; and since Augustus was

" obliged to retreat, that very Augustus whom his

" countrymen have made a god; and since Tiberius,

