76 THE AXNALS [A. U. C. 769.

gathering in the East. Commotions in that part of

the world might furnish an opportunity to remoTe

Germanicus from an nrmy devoted to his person,

and to employ him in new scenes of action, and in

distant provinces, where he could be exposed to the

chance of war, and more within the reach of treache足

ry. Germanicus, meanwhile, finding the legions zeal足

ous in his service, and the malice of Tiberius still

implacable, began to consider how he might strike a

decisive blow, and by one signal victory conclude the

war. For this purpose he reviewed his operations in

the three last campaigns, with the various turns of

good and evil fortune which he had experienced. He

observed that " the Germans, in a pitched battle, or

" on equal ground, were always defeated ; woods and

" fens protected them ; and the shortness of the sum.

" mer, with the quick return of winter, favoured their

" cause. It was not so much the sword of the enemy,

" as the fatigue of long and difficult marches, that

" thinned the Roman army. The loss of military

" weapons was an additional evil. Horses were not

"to be procured in Gaul, that country being well

" nigh exhausted. The baggage of the army, liable

" to ambuscades, was always defended at great dis-

" advantage. An expedition by sea promised better

" success. The army might penetrate at once into

" the heart of the country; and the Germans, unap-

" prised of that mode of attack, would be taken, by

" surprise. The campaign would be sooner opened ;

" the legions and their provisions might advance to-

" gether; men and horses would arrive in good con-

tt dition: and, with the advantage of harbours for

" the fleet, and navigable rivers up the country, the

" war might be pushed to the very heart of Ger-

" many."

VL This plan of operations being judged the best,

he sent Publius Vitellius and Caius Cantius to con足

vene the states of Gaul; and, in the mean time,

committed the caro of building a fleet to Silius,

Antcius, and Csecina. A thousand vessels (that num足

ber being deemed sufficient) were soon in readiness,

buV not all constructed on one uniform principle.

