A.D. 19.] 123 OF TACITUS.

if they dared to commence hostilities, as a prince that

might once more ascend the throne. In the space,

however, of eighteen years, Maroboduus never once

stirred out'of Italy. He grew gray in indolence; and

clinging too long to a wretched life, survived his re­

putation.

Catualda experienced a like reverse of fortune, and

found no better refuge. The Hermundurians, led on

by Vibillius their chief, expelled him from the throne.

The Romans fixed his residence at Foro-Julium, a

colony in Narbon Gaul. The barbarians, who fol­

lowed the fortunes of the two exiled kings, were not

suffered to incorporate with the people of the pro­

vinces ; but to prevent the danger that might otherwise

shake the public tranquillity, were conducted beyond

the Danube, where they had allotments of land be­

tween the rivers Marus and Cusus, under the com­

mand of Vannius, a man born in the Quadian nation,

and by Tiberius made king of the colony.

LXIV. The elevation of Artaxias to the throne of

Armenia being about this time known at Rome, the

senate decreed the lesser triumph to Drusus and Ger-

mantcus. Triumphal arches were raised near the

Temple of Mars the avenger, and the statues of the

two princes were placed in a conspicuous point of

view. Tiberius rejoiced at these events; and the more

so, as they were the effect of policy; not of con­

quest. By the same insidious arts he now began to

plan the destruction of Rhescuporis, king of Thrace.

Rhsemetalces at one time reigned sole monarch over

that whole country. After his death Augustus made

a partition of the kingdom, assigning to Rhescuporis,

the late king's brother one moiety; and the other to

Cotys, son of the deceased monarch. In this division

of the kingdom, the cultivated parts of the country,

the fertile vales and flourishing cities that lay conti­

guous to Greece, fell to the share of Cotys; the wild

and barren places, which were open to hostile incur­

sions, were allotted to Rhescuporis. The genius of

the two kings resembled their s6il; the milder virtues

distinguished the character of Cotys; ferocity, ambi­

tion, rapine, and impatience of an equal, were the

