A. D. 16.] 87 OF TACITUS.

bravest of the Germans, who dared to face every

danger, died under repeated wounds. The enemy

was dislodged from the rampart. Germanicus, at

the head of the prsetorian cohorts, advanced into tho

woods: the battle there was fierce and obstinate:

both sides fought hand to hand. Behind the barba­

rians lay the morass; in the rear of the Romans the

river and the woods; no room to retreat; valour their

only hope, and victory their only safety.

XXI. The martial spirit of the Germans yielded

in nothing to the Romans; but their weapons, and

their manner of fighting, were a great disadvantage.

Pent up in a forest too close for such a multitude,

they could neither wound at a distance, nor manage

their weapons with their usual agility. The Romans,

on the contrary, with their bucklers close to the

breast, and their hands covered with the hilt of their

swords, found the large proportions of the enemy an

easy mark. They gashed the barbarians in the face,

and drove them from their ranks. Arminius no longer

fought with his usual ardour. Ill success, so often

repeated, depressed his spirit; or perhaps the wound,

which he had received in the late engagement, had

exhausted his strength. Inguiomer, performing won­

ders, and busy in every part of the field, was aban­

doned by his fortune, not by his courage. Germani­

cus threw off his helmet, that his person might bo

better distinguished; and rushing among the ranks,

exhorted his men to give no quarter. He cried aloud,

" We have no need of prisoners: extirpate the barba­

dians; nothing less will end the war." Tho day

being far advanced, he ordered one of the legions to

quit the field, in order to prepare an encampment: the

rest had their measure of revenge, till the approach

of night put an end to the effusion of blood. In this

battle the Roman cavalry fought with undecided

success.

XXII. Germanicus in a public harangue commend­

ed the valour of his army; and afterwards raised a

pile of arms as a trophy of victory, with this splendid

inscription: "The army of Tiberius Cesar, having

