188 THE ANNALS [A. U.C, 775.

vered of those two deities. The tree was still to be

seen in a flourishing state, and the grove became a

consecrated spot. It was there that Apollo, after

having slain the Cyclops, found a retreat from the

vengeance of Jupiter; it was there that Bacchus, af­

ter his victories, gave a free pardon to such of the

Amazons as fled for protection to the altar; and it

was there that Hercules, having conquered Lydia,

established a temple, with rites and ceremonies, which

neither the Persian kings, nor the Macedonian con­

queror, presumed to violate. The Romans at all times

paid the strictest regard to the sanctity of the place.

LXII. .The Magnesians were the next in order.

They relied on the ordinances of Lucius Scipio, con­

firmed and ratified by Lucius Sylla; the former vic­

torious over Antiochus, and the latter over Mithri-

datcs. In the wars which were waged under their

conduct, the Magnesians adhered with fidelity to the

cause of Home; and to reward their services, the

temple of Diana Leucophryne was, by those com­

manders, declared a sanctuary. The people of Aphro-

disium, and also of Stratonice, produced a decree of

Csesar the dictator, and another of Augustus, com­

memorating the zeal, with which those states with­

stood the Parthian invasion, and preserved to the last

their attachment to the interest of Rome. The Aphro-

disians claimed the temple of Venus; the Stratoni-

ceans worshipped Jupiter and Diana Trivia. The

city of Hierocsesarea deduced their ceremonies from

remote antiquity, alleging that they had for ages

adored a Persian Diana, in a temple consecrated by

Cyrus. Several orders made by Pcrpenna, by

Isauricus, and other Roman generals, were also cited,

whereby it appeared that those sanctuaries, with a

precinct two miles round, were declared holy ground.

The inhabitants of Cyprus claimed three sanctuaries;

the first and most ancient, dedicated by Aerias to the

Paphian Venus; the second, by Amathus, the son of

Aerias, in honour of the Amathusian Venus; and tlis

third, to the Salaminian Jove, by Teucer, the son of

Telamon, when that hero was obliged to fly from th«

rcge of his father

