Il was often allowed by Augustus, ana &«» „y Zi.< ,

us, for the last time. With him the practice ceased

, together. . .

LXXV Rome, in the course ot tins year, lost two

':ustrious citizens: the first was Asinkis Saloninus,

.andson both to Marcus Agrippa and Asimus Polho,

lf-brothcr to Drusus, and, besides, the intended

:'lsband of the emperor's grind-daughter. The se-

•ndrwas Ateius Capito, already mentioned; a man,

or his abilities and his knowledge of the laws, of the

st eminence in the state. From his birth he de-

,"ed no advantage. His grand-father was a centurion

i,der Sylla: his father rose to the rank of prator.

uapito was, with rapid speed, advanced by Augustus

0 the consular dignity, and, by that promotion,

iaced above his competitor, Antistius Labeo, who

/ , d grown into celebrity by his talents and his skill in

ji risprudence. It was the peculiar felicity of that

-e to see flourishing together those two. illustrious  
vals, who, in peaceable times, were the ornaments

their country. The fame of Labeo rose on the,

, '.'est foundation; he was a strenuous asserter of civil

: :,erty, and for that reason the favourite of the peo-

, 'e. Capito knew his approaches to the great, and

his flexibility became a favourite at the court

of Augustus. Labeo was not suffered to rise

:iliive *he prsetorian rank; but that act of injus­

tice raised his popularity: while, on the other hand,

Capito obtained the consulship, and with it the pub-

li , hatred.

jXXVI. In this year also, the sixty-fourth from the

h .tie of Philippi, Junia, niece to Cato, sister of Bru-

;, and the widow of Cassius, paid her debt to na-

t e. Her will engrossed the public conversation.

1 ssessed of immoderate riches, she left marks of her

regard to almost all the eminent men at Rome, with­

out mention of Tiberius. The omission gave no um-

' age to the emperor. He considered it as the exer-

se of a civil right, and not only suffered her funeral

I, megyric to be spoken from the rostrum, but allowed

e last ceremonies to be performed with the usual

