C. V.] T H E I D U SI E A N S. 115

tended accusation, and in a few words confuted the crimes

laid to bis charge; after which he turned his speech to his

accusers, and went over distinctly all their transgressions of

the law, and made heavy lamentations upon the confusion

they had brought public affairs to. In the mean time the

zealots grew tumultuous, and had much ado to abstain from

drawing their swords, although they designed to preserve the

appearance and show of a judicature to the end. They were

alao desirous, on other accounts, to try the judges, whether

they would be mindful of what was just at their own peril.

Now the seventy judges brought in their verdict, that the

person accused was not guilty, as choosing rather to die them­

selves with him, than to have his death laid at their doors:

hereupon there arose a great clamor of the zealots upon his

acquittal; and they all had indignation at the judges, for not

understanding that the authority that was given them was

but in jest. So two of the boldest of them fell upon Zacha-

rias in the middle of the temple, and slew him; and as he

fell down dead, they bantered him, and said, — " Thou hast

also our verdict, and this will prove a more sure acquittal to

thee than the other." They also threw him down from the

temple immediately into the valley beneath it. Moreover they

struck the judges with the backs of their swords, by way of

abuse, and thrust them out of the court of the temple; and

spared their lives with no other design than that, when they

were dispersed among the people in the city, they might be­

come their messengers, to let them know they were no better

than slaves.

5. But by this time the Idumcans repented of their coming,

and were displeased at what had been done; and when they

were assembled together by one of the zealots, who had come

privately to them, he declared to them what a number of

wicked pranks they had themselves done in conjunction with

those that had invited them, and gave a particular account

of what mischiefs had been done against their metropolis. Ho

said that " they had taken arms as though the high-priests

were betraying their metropolis to the Romans, but had found

