c. vni.J bleazar's speeches. 335

" Since we long ago, my generous friends, resolved never to

be servants to the Romans, nor to any other than to God

himself, who alone is the true and just Lord of mankind, the

time is now come that obliges us to make that resolution true

in practice : and let us not at this time bring a reproach upon

ourselves for self-contradiction, while we formerly would not

undergo slavery, though it were then without danger, but

must now, together with slavery, choose such punishments

also as are intolerable: I mean this upon the supposition that

the Romans once reduce us under their power while we aro

alive. We were the very first that revolted from them, and

wo are the last that fight against them; and I cannot but

esteem it as a favor that God hath granted us, that it is still

in our power to die bravely and in a state of freedom, which

hath not been the case of others who were conquered unex­

pectedly. It is very plain that we shall be taken within a

day's time ; but it is still an eligible thing to die after a glo­

rious manner, together with our dearest friends. This is what

our enemies themselves cannot by any means hinder, although

they be very desirous to take us alive. Nor can we propose

to ourselves any more to fight them and beat them. It had

been proper, indeed, for us to have conjectured at the pur­

pose of God much sooner, and at the very first, when we were

so very desirous of defending our liberty, and when we re­

ceived such sore treatment from one another, and worse treat­

ment from our enemies, and to have been sensible that the

same God who had of old taken the Jewish nation into his

favor, had now condemned them to destruction; for had he

either continued favorable, or been but in a lesser degree

displeased with us, he had not overlooked the destruction of

so many men, or delivered his most holy city to be burnt and

demolished by our enemies. To be sure we weakly hoped to

have preserved ourselves, and ourselves alone, still in a state

of freedom, as if we had been guilty of no sins ourselves

worthy the perusal of all the curious. It seems as if that philosophic lady

who survived, ch. ix. sect. 1, 2, remembered the substance of these
discourses,

as spoken by Eleazar, and so Josephus clothed them in his own words; at tho

lowest, they contain the Jewish notions on these heads as understood then

by our Josephus, and cannot but deserve a suitable regard from us.

