C. I.] SEDITIONS AT JERUSALEM. 159

he set on fire those houses that were full of corn,1 and of all

other provisions. The same thing was done by Simon, when,

upon the other's retreat, he attacked the city also: as if they

had on purpose done it to serve the Romans, by destroying

what the city had laid up against the siege, and by thus cut­

ting off the nerves of their own power. Accordingly it so

came to pass, that all the places that were about the temple

were burnt down, and were become an intermediate desert

space, ready for fighting on both sides of it; and that almost

all that corn was burnt, which would have been sufficient for

a siege of many years. So they were taken by the means of

the famine, which it was impossible they should have been

unless they had thus prepared the way for it by this procedure.

5. And now, as the city was engaged in a war on all sides,

from these treacherous crowds of wicked men, the people of

the city between them were like a great body torn in pieces.

The aged men and the women were in such distress by their

internal calamities that they wished for the Romans, and

earnestly hoped for an external war, in order to their delivery

from their domestical miseries. The citizens themselves were

under a terrible consternation and fear; nor had they any

opportunity of taking counsel, and of changing their conduct;

nor were there any hopes of coming to an agreement with

their enemies; nor could such as had a mind fly away; for

guards were set at all places, and the heads of the robbers,

although they were seditious one against another in other re­

spects, yet did they agree in killing those that were for peace

with the Romans, or were suspected of an inclination to desert

to them, as their common enemies. They agreed in nothing

but this, to kill those that were innocent. The noise also of

those that were fighting was incessant both by day and by

night; but the lamentation of those that mourned exceeded

the other; nor was there ever any occasion for them to leave

off their lamentations, because their calamities came perpetu­

1 This destruction of such a vast quantity of corn and other provisions, ns

was sufficient for many years, was the direct occasion of that terrible famine

which consumed incredible numbers of Jews in Jerusalem during its siege.

Nor probably could the Romans have taken this city, after all, had not these

seditious Jews been so infatuated as thus madly to destroy what Josephua

here justly styles "the nerves of their power."

