472 DISSERTATION I.

Chrysostom, lib. iv. epist. 225. — There was one Josephus, a

Jew of the greatest reputation, and one that was zealous of

the law; one also that paraphrased the Old Testament with

truth, and acted valiantly for the Jews, and had showed that

their settlement was nobler that can be described by words.

Now since he made their interest give place to truth, for he

would not support the opinion of impious men, I think it

necessary to set down his words. What then does he say ?

Now there was about that time Jesus, a wise man, if it be

lawful to call him a man, for he was a doer of wonderful

works, a teacher of such men as receive the truth with

pleasure. He drew over to him both many of the Jews, and

many of the Gentiles : he was the Christ. And when Pilate,

at the suggestion of the principal men among us, had con­

demned him to the cross, those that loved him at first did not

forsake him, for he appeared to them the third day alive again,

as the divine prophets had said these, and a vast number of

other wonderful things concerning him; and the tribe of

Christians, so named from him, arc not extinct at this day.

Now I cannot but wonder greatly at this man's love of

truth in many respects, but chiefly where he says — "Jesus

was a teacher of men which received the truth with pleasure."

About A. D. 440. Sozomon. Hist. Ecrfes. lib. cap. 1. —

Now Josephus, the son of Matthias, a priest, a man of very

great note both among the Jews and the Romans, may well

be a witness.of credit as to the truth of Christ's history ; for

ho scruples to call him a man, as being a doer of wonderful

works, and a teacher of the words of truth : he names him

Christ openly; and is not ignorant that he was condemned to

the cross, and appeared on the third day alive; and that ten

thousand other wonderful things were foretold of him by the

divine prophets. He testifies also, that those whom he drew

over to him, being many of the Gentiles as well as of the

Jews, continued to love him ; and that the tribe named from

him was not then extinct. Now ho seems to me, by this his

relation, almost to proclaim that Christ is God. However,

he appears to have been so affected by the strangeness of the

thing, as to run as it were in a sort of middle way, so as not

