256 P E D A N I u s. [b. VI.

Roman guards that were upon the mount of Olives, and this

about the eleventh hour of the day, as supposing, first, that

they would not expect an onset, and, in the next place, that

they were then taking care of their bodies, and that, there­

fore, they should easily beat them. But the Romans were

apprized of their coming to attack them beforehand, and run­

ning together from the neighboring camps on the sudden,

prevented them from getting over their fortifications, or

forcing the wall that was built about them. Upon this came

on a sharp fight, and here many great actions were per­

formed on both sides ; while the Romans showed both their

courage and their skill in war, as did the Jews come on them

with immoderate violence and intolerable passion. The one

party were urged on by shame, and the other by necessity;

for it seemed a very shameful thing to the Romans to let the

Jews go, now they were taken in a kind of net; while the

Jews had but one hope of saving themselves, and that was in

case they could by violence break through the Roman wall;

and one, whose name was Pedanius, belonging to a party of

horsemen, when the Jews were already beaten and forced

down into the valley together, spurred his horse on their

flank with great vehemence, and caught up a certain young

man belonging to the enemy by his ankle, as he was running

away. The man was, however, of a robust body, and in his

armor ; so low did Pedanius bend himself downward from his

horse, even as he was galloping away, and so great was the

strength of his right hand and of the rest of his body, as also

such skill had he in horsemanship. So this man seized upon

that his prey as upon a precious treasure, and carried him as

his captive to Caesar: whereupon Titus admired the man that

had seized the other for his great strength, and ordered the

man that was caught to be punished [with death] for his

attempt against the Roman wall, but betook himself to the

siege of the temple, and to pressing on the raising of the

banks.

9. In the mean time the Jews were so distressed by the

fights they had been in, as the war advanced higher and

higher, and creeping up to the holy house itself, that they,

