404 FLAVICSJOSEPHUS [B. I.

perished; whether they fell in war or went over to Ramesses.

And what is the strangest of all, it is not possible to learn

out of him who they were whom he calls Jews, or to which

of these two parties he applies that denomination: whether

to the hundred and fifty thousand leprous people, or to the

three hundred and eighty thousand that were about Pelusium.

But, perhaps, it will be looked upon as a silly thing in me to

make any larger confutation of such writers as sufficiently

confute themselves; for had they been only confuted by other

men, it had been more tolerable.

34. I shall now add to these accounts about Manetho and

Cheremon, somewhat about Lysimachus, who had taken the

same topic of falsehood with those forementioned, but hath

gone far beyond them in the incredible nature of his forgeries,

which plainly demonstrates that he contrived them out of his

virulent hatred of our nation. His words are these :—" The

people of the Jews being leprous, and scabby, and subject to

certain other kinds of distempers, in the days of Bocchoris,

king of Egypt, they fled to the temples, and got their food

there by begging; and as the numbers were very great that

were fallen under these diseases, there arose a scarcity in

Egypt. Hereupon Bocchoris, the king of Egypt, sent some

to consult the oracle of [Jupiter] Hammon about this scarcity.

The god's answer was this, that he must purge his temples

of impure and impious men, by expelling them out of those

temples into desert places; but as to the scabby and leprous

people ho must drown them, and purge his temples, the sun

having an indignation at these men's being suffered to live;

and by this means the land will bring forth its fruits. Upon

Bocchoris's having received these oracles, he called for their

priests and .the attendants upon their altars, and ordered

them to make a collection of the impure people, and to deliver

them to the soldiers, to carry them away into the desert, but

to take the leprous people and wrap them in sheets of lead,

and let them down into the sea. Hereupon the scabby and

leprous people were drowned, and the rest were gotten to­

gether and sent into desert places, in order to be exposed to

destruction. In this case they assembled themselves together,

