64 S I E 6 K 0 F T A K I C H E M. [c. III.

bo on greater motives than those of the Jews; for although

they run the hazard of war for liberty and for their country,

yet what can be a greater motive to us than glory? and that

it may never be said, that after wo have got dominion of the

habitable earth, the Jews are able to confront us. We must

also reflect upon this, that there is no fear of our suffering

any incurable disaster in the present case; for those that are

ready to assist us are many, and at hand also: yet is it in

our power to seize upon this victory ourselves, and I think we

ought to prevent the coming of those my father is sending to

us for our assistance, that our success may be peculiar to

ourselves, and of greater reputation to us. And I cannot

but think this an opportunity wherein my father, and I, and

you shall be all put to the trial, whether he be worthy of his

former glorious performances, whether I be his son in reality,

and whether you be really my soldiers; for it is usual for my

father to conquer; and for myself, I should not bear the

thoughts of returning to him if I were once taken by the

enemy. And how will you be able to avoid being ashamed,

if you do not show equal courage with your commander,

when he goes before you into danger ? for you know very well

that I shall go into the danger first, and make the first attack

upon the enemy. Do not you, therefore, desert me, but per­

suade yourselves that God will be assisting to my onset.

Know this also before we begin, that we shall now have

better success than we should have, if we were to fight at a

distance."

3. As Titus was saying this, an extraordinary fury fell

upon the men; and as Trajan was already come before the

fight began, with four hundred horsemen, they were uneasy

at it, because the reputation of the victory would be dimin­

ished by being common to so many. Vespasian had also sent

both Antonius and Silo, with two thousand archers, and had

given it them in charge to seize upon the mountain that was

over against the city, and repel those that were upon the

wall; which archers did as they were commanded, and pre­

vented those that attempted to assist them that way. And

now Titus made his own horse march first against the enemy,

