DISSERTATION I. 471

who appeared to his disciples after the third day from his

death, alive again, according to the writings of the prophets,

who foretold these and innumerable other miraculous events

concerning him; from whom began the congregation of

Christians, and hath penetrated among all sorts of men : nor

does there remain any nation in the Roman world, which

continues strangers to his religion. If the Jews do not be­

lieve us, let them at least believe their own writers. Josephus,

whom they esteem a very great man, hath said this, and yet

hath he spoken truth after such a manner, and so far was his

mind wandered from the right way, that even he was not a

believer, as to what he himself said: but thus he spake in

order to deliver historical truth, because he thought it not

lawful for him to deceive, while yet he was no believer, be­

cause of the hardness of his heart, and his perfidious intention.

However, it was no prejudice to the truth that he was not a

believer; but this adds more weight to his testimony, that

while he was an unbeliever, and unwilling this should be true,

he has not denied it to be so.

About A. D. 400. Hieronym. de Vir. lllustr. in Jose-

pho. — Josephus, in the eighteenth book of Antiquities, most

expressly acknowledges, that Christ was slain by the Phari­

sees on account of the greatness of his miracles; and that

John the Baptist was truly a prophet; and that Jerusalem

was demolished on account of the slaughter of James the

apostle. Now he wrote concerning our Lord after this man­

ner : — At the same time there was Jesus, a wise man, if yet

it be lawful to call him a man, for he was a doer of wonderful

works, a teacher of those who willingly receive the truth. Ho

had many followers both of the Jews and of the Gentiles ; he

was believed to be Christ. And when, by the envy of our

principal men, Pilate had condemned him to the cross, this

notwithstanding, those who had loved him at first persevered,

for he appeared to them alive on the third day, as the oracles

of the prophets had foretold many of these, and other won­

derful things concerning him: and the sect of Christians, so

uamed from him, are not extinct at this day.

About A. D. 410. Isodorus Pelusiota, the Scholar of

