C. VI.] VESPASIAN. 23

auxiliaries which were lightly armed and the archers to march

first, that they might prevent any sudden insults from the

enemy, and might search out the woods that looked suspi­

ciously, and were capable of ambuscades. Next to these

followed that part of the Romans which was completely armed,

both footmen and horsemen. Next to these followed ten out

of every hundred, carrying along with them their arms, and

what was necessary to measure out a camp withal; and after

them such as were to make the road even and straight, and

if it were anywhere rough and hard to be passed over, to

plane it, and to cut down the woods that hindered their march,

that the army might not be in distress or tired with their

march. Behind these he set such carriages of the army as

belonged both to himself and to the other commanders, with

a considerable number of their horsemen for their security.

After these he marched himself, having with him a select

body of footmen, and horsemen, and pikemen. After these

came the peculiar cavalry of his own legion; for there were a

hundred and twenty horsemen that peculiarly belonged to

every legion. Next to these came the mules that carried the

engines for sieges, and the other warlike machines of that

nature. After these came the commanders of the cohorts

and tribunes, having about them soldiers chosen out of the

rest. Then came the ensigns encompassing the eagle, which

is at the head of every Roman legion, the king and the

strongest of all birds, which seems to them a signal of domi­

nion, and an omen that they shall conquer all against whom

they march : these sacred ensigns are followed by the trum­

peters. Then came the main army in their squadrons and

battalions, with six men in depth, which were followed at last

by a centurion, who, according to custom, observed the rest.

As for the servants of every legion, they all followed the

footmen, and led the baggage of the soldiers, which was borne

by the mules and other beasts of burden. But behind all

the legions came the whole multitude of the mercenaries ; and

those that brought up the rear came last of all for the security

of the whole army, being both footmen, and those in their

armor also, with a great number of horsemen.

