C. II.J VESPASIAN. 11

numbers, to Ascalon. But their former ill fortune followed

them, as the consequence of their unskilfulness, and other

deficiencies in war; for Antonius laid ambushes for them in

the passages they were to go through, where they fell into

snares unexpectedly, and where they were compassed about

with horsemen, before they could form themselves into a

regular body for fighting, and were above eight thousand of

them slain : so all the rest of them ran away, and with them

Niger, who still did a great many bold exploits in his flight.

However, they were driven along together by the enemy, who

pressed hard upon them, into a certain strong tower belonging

to a village called Bezedel. However, Antonius and his party,

that they might neither spend any considerable time about

this tower, which was hard to be taken, nor suffer their com­

mander, and the most courageous man of them all, to escape

from them, they set the wall on fire; and as the tower was

burning, the Romans went away rejoicing, as taking it for

granted that Niger was destroyed; but he leaped out of tho

tower into a subterraneous cave, in the innermost part of it,

and was preserved ; and on the third day afterwards he spake

out of the ground to those that, with great lamentation, were

searching for him, in order to give him a decent funeral: and

when he was come out, he filled all the Jews with an unex­

pected joy, as though he were preserved by God's providence

to be their commander for the time to come.

4. And now Vespasian took along with him his army from

Antioch (which is the metropolis of Syria, and, without dis­

pute, deserves the place of the third' city in the habitable

earth that was under the Roman empire, both in magnitude

and other marks of prosperity,) where he found King

Agrippa, with all his forces, waiting for his coming, and

marched to Ptolemais. At this city also the inhabitants of

Sepphoris of Galilee met him, who were for peace with the

Romans. These citizens had beforehand taken care of their

own safety, and being sensible of the power of the Romans,

1 Spanheiui and It eland both agree, that the two cities here esteemed

greater than Antioch, the metropolis of Syria, were Rome and Alexandria;

nor is there any occasion for doubt in so plain a case.

