DISSERTATION III. 523

of the nones of July, with that eagerness that they would not

stay for his son Titus, who was then on the road, returning

out of Syria, chap, lxxix. Vespasian delivered over the

strongest part of his forces to Titus, to enable him to finish

what remained of the Jewish war. Hist, book iv. chap. li.

During those months in which Vespasian continued at

Alexandria, waiting for the usual set time of the summer

gales of wind, and staid for settled fair weather at sea, many

miraculous events happened, by which the good-will of

heaven, and a kind of inclination of the Deity in his favor

was declared.

A certain man of the vulgar sort at Alexandria, well

known for the decay of his eyes, kneeled down by him, and

groaned, and begged of him the cure of his blindness, as by

the admonition of Serapis, that God which this superstitious

nation worships above others. He also, desired that the

emperor would be pleased to put some of his spittle upon the

balls of his eyes. Another infirm man there, who was lame

of his hand, prayed Coesar, as by the same god's suggestion,

to tread upon him with his foot. Vespasian at first began

to laugh at them, and to reject them; and when they were

instant with him, he sometimes feared he should have the

reputation of a vain person, and sometimes upon the solicita­

tion of the infirm, ho flattered himself, and others flattered

him, with the hopes of succeeding. At last he ordered the

physicians to give their opinion, whether this sort of blindness

and lameness were curable by the art of man or not ? The

physicians answered uncertainly, that the one had not his

visual faculty utterly destroyed, and that it might be restored,

if the obstacles were removed; that the other's limbs were

disordered, but if a healing virtue were made use of, they were

capable of being made whole. Perhaps, said they, the gods

are willing to assist, and that the emperor is chosen by divine

Josephus implies, and the place where now Vespasian was, which was no

other than Judea, requires also, though the inauguration day might be

celebrated afterward from his first proclamation at the great city Alexandria,

only then the nones or ides in Tacitus and Suetonius must be of June, and

not of July.

