86 JOHN OF G ISC HA LA. [B. IV.

men to pursue after John, but they could not overtake him,

for he was gotten to Jerusalem before; they also slew six

thousand of the women and children who went out with him,

but returned back and brought with them almost three thou­

sand. However, Titus was greatly displeased that he had

not been able to bring this John, who had deluded him, to

punishment; yet he had captives enough, as well as the cor­

rupted part of the city, to satisfy his anger, when it missed

of John. So he entered the city in the midst of acclamations

of joy; and when he had given orders to the soldiers to pull

down a small part of the wall, as of a city taken in war, he

repressed those that had disturbed the city rather by threat-

enings than by executions; for he thought that many would

accuse innocent persons, out of their own private animosities

and quarrels, if he should attempt to distinguish those that

were worthy of punishment from the rest; and that it was

better to let a guilty person alone in his fears, than to destroy

with him any one that did not deserve it; for that probably

such a one might be taught prudence by the fear of the

punishment he had deserved, and have a shame upon him for

his former offences, when he had been forgiven; but that the

punishment of such as have been once put to death could

never be retrieved. However, ho placed a garrison in the

city for its security, by which means he should restrain those

that were for innovations, and should leave those that were

peaceably disposed in greater security. And thus was all

Galilee taken, but this not till after it had cost the Romans

much pains before it could be taken by them.

CHAPTER III.

CONCERNING JOHN OF GISCHALA. CONCERNING THE ZEALOTS,

AND THE HIGH-PRIEST ANANUS ; AS ALSO HOW THE JEWS

RAISED SEDITIONS ONE AGAINST ANOTHER [iN JERUSALEM.]

§ 1. Now, upon John's entr}' into Jerusalem, the whole

body of the people were in an uproar, and ten thousand of

them crowded about every one of the fugitives that were

