306 REVOLT OF THE GERMANS. [B. VII.

met him at first related with what good humor he received

every one that came to him, then it was that the whole multi­

tude that had remained in the city, with their wives and chil­

dren, came into the road, and waited for him there; and for

those whom he passed by, they made all sorts of acclamations

on account of the joy they had to see him, and the pleasant­

ness of his countenance, and styled him their benefactor and

savior, and the only person who was worthy to be ruler of

the city of Rome. And now the city was like a temple, full

of garlands and sweet odors; nor was it easy for him to

come to the royal palace, for the multitude of people that

stood about him; where yet at last he performed his sacrifices

of thanksgiving to his household gods, for his safe return to

the city. The multitude did also betake themselves to feast­

ing; which feasts and drink offerings they celebrated by

their tribes, and their families, and their neighborhoods, and

still prayed God to grant that Vespasian, his sons, and all

their posterity might continue in the Roman government for

a very long time, and that his dominion might be preserved

from all opposition. And this was the manner in which

Rome so joyfully received Vespasian, and thence grew im­

mediately into a state of great prosperity.

2. But before this time, and while Vespasian was about

Alexandria, and Titus was lying at the siege of Jerusalem,

a great multitude of the Germans were in commotion, and

tended to rebellion ; and as the Gauls in their neighborhood

joined with them, they conspired together, and had thereby

great hopes of success, and that they should free themselves

from the dominion of the Romans. The motives that in­

duced the Germans to this attempt for a revolt, and for be­

ginning the war, were these. — In the first place, the nature

[of the people,] which was destitute of just reasonings, and

ready to throw themselves rashly into danger upon small

hopes: in the next place, the hatred they bore to those that

were their governors, while their nation had never been con­

scious of subjection to any but to the Romans, and that by

compulsion only. Besides these motives, it was the oppor­

tunity that now offered itself which above all the rest pre­

