B. II.] AGAINST APION. 437

such words as entirely take away the nature of God, as others

of them have taken away his providence over mankind. Nor

can any one perceive amongst us any difference in the con­

duct of our lives, hut all our works are common to us all.

We have one sort of discourse concerning God, which is con­

formable to our law, and affirms that he sees all things; as

also we have but one way of speaking concerning the conduct

of our lives, that all other things ought to have piety for

their end; and this any body may hear from our women and

servants themselves.

21. And, indeed, hence hath arisen that accusation which

Eome make against us, that we have not produced men that

have been the inventors of new operations, or of new ways

of speaking; for others think it a fine thing to persevere in

nothing that has been delivered down from their forefathers,

and these testify it to be an instance of the sharpest wisdom

when these men venture to transgress those traditions;

whereas we, on the contrary, suppose it to be our only wisdom

and virtue to admit no actions nor supposals that are contrary

to our original laws; which procedure of ours is a just and

sure sign that our law is admirably constituted; for such

laws as are not thus well made are convicted upon trial to

want amendment.

22. But while we are ourselves persuaded that our law

was made agreeably to the will of God, it would be impious

for us not to observe the same; for what is there in it that

any body would change ? and what can be invented that is

better ? or what can we take out of other people's laws that

will exceed it ? Perhaps some would have the entire settle­

ment of our government altered. And where shall we find

a better or more righteous constitution than ours ? while this

makes us esteem God to be the governor of the universe, and

permits the priests in general to be the administrators of the

principal affairs, and withal intrusts the government over the

other priests to the chief high-priest himself: which priests

our legislator, at their first appointment, did not advance to

that dignity for their riches, or any abundance of other

possessions, or any plenty they had, as the gifts of fortune;

37*

