C. V.] DISTRESS OF THE JEWS. 271

CHAPTER V.

THE GREAT DISTRESS THE JEWS WERE IN UPON THE CON­

FLAGRATION OF THE HOLY HOUSE. CONCERNING A FALSE

PROPHET, AND THE SIGNS THAT PRECEDED THIS DESTRUCTION.

§ 1. While the holy house was on fire, every thing was

plundered that came to hand, and ten thousand of those that

were caught were slain: nor was there a commiseration of

any age, or any reverence of gravity, hut children and old

men, and profane persons, and priests, were all slain in the

same manner; so that this war went round all sorts of men,

and brought them to destruction, and as well those that made

supplication for their lives as those that defended themselves

by fighting. The flame was also carried a long way, and

made an echo, together with the groans of those that were

slain; and because this hill was high, and the works at the

temple were very great one would have thought the whole

city had been on fire. Nor can one imagine any thing either

greater or more terrible than this noise; for there was at

once a shout of the Roman legions, who were marching all

together, and a sad clamor of the seditious, who were now

surrounded with fire and sword. The people also that were

left above were beaten back upon the enemy, and under a

great consternation, and made sad moans at the calamity

they were under: the multitude also that was in the city

joined in this outcry with those that were upon the hill: and,

besides, many of those that were worn away by the famine,

and their mouths almost closed, when they saw the fire of

the holy house, they exerted their utmost strength, and brake

out into groans and outcries again: Perea1 did also return

1 This Perec, if the word be not mistaken in the copies, cannot well be

that Perea which was beyond Jordan, whose mountains were at a con­

siderable distance from Jordan, and much too remote from Jerusalem to

join this echo at the conflagration of the temple; but Perea must be rather

some mountains beyond the brook Cedron, as was the mount of Olives, or

Rome others, about such a distance from Jerusalem: which observation is so

obvious, that it is a wonder our commentators here take no notice of it.

