C. IX.] THE SIEGE. 209

-with the slavery we were under at Babylon, where the people  
were captives for seventy years; yet were they not delivered

into freedom again before God made Cyrus his gracious in足

strument in bringing it about: accordingly, they were set

free by him, and did again restore the worship of their

deliverer at his temple. And, to speak in general, we can

produce no example wherein our fathers got any success by

war, or failed of success when without war they committed

themselves to God. When they stayed at home, they con足

quered, as pleased their judge; but when they went out to

fight, they were always disappointed: for example, when the

king of Babylon besieged this very city, and our king

Zedekiah fought against him, contrary to what predictions

were made to him by Jeremiah the prophet, he was at once

taken prisoner, and saw the city and the temple demolished.

Yet how much greater was the moderation of that king than

is that of your present governors, and that of the people then

under him, than is that of you at this time ? for when

Jeremiah cried out aloud, how very angry God was at them,

because of their transgressions, and told them they should

be taken prisoners, unless they would surrender up their

city, neither did the king nor the people put him to death:

but for you (to pass over what you have done within the city,

which I am not able to describe, as your wickedness deserves,)

you abuse me, and throw darts at me, who only exhort you

to save yourselves, as being provoked when you are put in

mind of j'our sins, and cannot bear the very mention of those

crimes which you every day perpetrate. For another ex足

ample, when Antiochus, who was called Epiphanes, lay

before this city, and had been guilty of many indignities

against God, and our forefathers met him in arms, they then

were slain in the battle, this city was plundered by our

enemies, and our sanctuary made desolate for three years

and six months. And what need I bring any more examples ?

Indeed, what can it be that hath stirred up an army of the

Romans against our nation ? is it not the impiety of the in足

habitants ? Whence did our servitude commence ? was it not

derived from the seditions that were among our forefathers,

18*

