176 JERUSALEM. [B. V.

in the Grecian language, may be called The Neio City. Since,

therefore, its inhabitants stood in need of a covering, the

father of the present king, and of the same name with him,

Agrippa, began that wall we spoke of; but he left off building

it when he had only laid the foundations, out of the fear he

was in of Claudius Caesar, lest he should suspect that so

strong a wall was built in order to make some innovation in

public affairs; for the city could no way have been taken, if

that wall had been finished in the manner it was begun ; as

its parts were connected together by stones twenty cubits long

and ten cubits broad, which could never have been either

easily undermined by any iron tools, or shaken by any en­

gines. The wall was, however, ten cubits wide, and it would

probably have had a height greater than that, had not his

zeal who began it been hindered from exerting itself. After

this it was erected with great diligence by the Jews as high

as twenty cubits, above which it had battlements of two cubits,

and turrets of three cubits altitude, insomuch that the entire

altitude extended as far as twenty-five cubits.

3. Now the towers that were upon it were twenty cubits in

breadth and twenty cubits in height; they were square, and

solid as was the wall itself, wherein the niccness of the joints

and the beauty of the stones were no way inferior to those of

the holy house itself. Above this solid altitude of the tow­

ers, which was twenty cubits, there were rooms of great mag­

nificence, and over them upper rooms, and cisterns to receive

rain-water. They were many in number, and the steps by

which you ascended up to them were every one broad. Of

these towers, then, the third wall had ninety, and the spaces

between them were each two hundred cubits; but in the

middle wall were forty towers, and the old wall was parted

into sixty, while the whole compass of the city was thirty-

three furlongs. Now, the third wall was all of it wonderful;

yet was the tower Psephinus elevated above it at the north­

west corner, and where Titus pitched his own tent; for, be­

ing seventy cubits high, it both afforded a prospect of Arabia

at sun-rising, as well as it did of the utmost limits of the He­

brew possessions at the sea westward. Moreover, it was an

