124 VESPASIAN TAKES GADABA. [b. IV.

thus did they fall upon the holy places' and the cities; yet

did it now so happen that they were sometimes very ill

treated by those upon whom they fell with such violence, and

were taken by them as men are taken in war: but still they

prevented any farther punishment, as do robbers, who, as

soon as their ravages [are discovered,] run their way. Nor

was there now any part of Judea that was not in a miserable

condition, as well as its most eminent city also.

3. These things were told Vespasian by deserters: for

although the seditious watched all the passages out of the

city, and destroyed all, whosoever they were, that came

thither, yet were there some that had concealed themselves;

and when they had fled to the Romans, persuaded their

general to come to the city's assistance, and save the re­

mainder of the people; informing him withal, that it was

upon account of the people's good-will to the Romans that

many of them were already slain, and the survivors in danger

of the same treatment. Vespasian did, indeed, already pity

the calamities these men were in, and arose, in appearance,

as though he was going to besiege Jerusalem, but in reality

to deliver them from a [worse] siege they were already

under. However, he was obliged first to overthrow what

remained elsewhere, and to leave nothing out of Jerusalem

behind him that might interrupt him in that siege. Accord­

ingly, he marched against Gadara, the metropolis of Perea,

which was a place of strength, and entered that city on the

fourth day of the month Dystrus [Adar;] for the men of

power had sent an embassage to him, without the knowledge

of the seditious, to treat about a surrender ; which they did

out of the desire they had of peace, and for saving their

effects, because many of the citizens of Gadara were rich

1 13y this ii(io or holy places, as distinct from cities, must bo meant pro-

seischtz or houses of prayer, out of cities; of which we find mention made in

the New Testament and other authors. See Luke, vi. 12; Acts, xvi. 13,

10; Antiq. B. xiv. eh. x. sect. 23; his Life, sect. 61. In qua Is quero pro-

seucha ? Juvenal, Sat. iii. ver. 296. They were situated sometimes by tho

sides of rivers, Acts, xvi. 13, or by tho sea-side, Antiq. B. xiv. ch. x.
sect.

23. So did the seventy-two interpreters go to prayer every morning by the

sea-side, before they went to their work, B. xii. ch. ii. sect. 12.

