DISSERTATION II. 507

that were also sealed with them : they were sacrificed three

in a day. In whose stead Amosis commanded that men of

wax, of the same number, should be substituted."

Now, I have lately shown, that these Egyptians had Abra­

ham in great veneration, and that all the wisdom of those

Egyptians, in which Moses was afterwards learned, was de­

rived from no other than from Abraham. Now it appears

evidently, by the forecited passage, that the first abolition

of these human sacrifices, and the substitution of waxen

images in their stead, and particularly at Heliopolis, in the

north-east part of Egypt, in the neighborhood of Beersheba,

in the south of Palestine, where Abraham now lived, at the

distance of about one hundred and twenty miles only, was

in the days, and by the order of Tethmosis or Amosis, who

was the first of the Egyptian kings, after the expulsion of

the Phoenician shepherds. Now, therefore, we are to inquire

when this Tethmosis or Amosis lived, and compare his time

with the time of the sacrifice of Isaac. Now, if we look into

my chronological table, published A. D. 1721, we shall find

that the hundred and twenty-fifth year of Abraham, or which

is all one, the twenty-fifth year of Isaac, falls into A. M.

2573, or into the thirteenth year of Tethmosis or Amosis,

which is the very middle of his twenty-five years' reign; so

that this abolition of human sacrifices in Egypt, and substi­

tution of others in their room, seems to have been occasioned

by the solemn prohibition of such a sacrifice in the case of

Abraham, and by the following substitution of a ram in its

stead : which account of this matter not only takes away the

groundless suspicions of the moderns, but shows the great

seasonableness of the divine prohibition of the execution of

this command to Abraham, as probably the direct occasion

of putting a stop to the barbarity of the Egyptians in offer­

ing human sacrifices, and that for many, if not for all gene­

rations afterward.

