500 CAPTURE OF SIMON THE TYRANT. [B. VII

of thcni down into a certain subterraneous cavern that was

not visible above ground. Now so far as had been digged

of old, they went onward along it without disturbance ; but

where they met with solid earth, they dug a mine under ground,

and this in hopes that they should be able to proceed so far

as to rise from under ground in a safe place, and by that

means escape. But when they came to make the experiment,

they were disappointed of their hope: for the miners could

make but small progress, and that with difficulty also; inso­

much that their provisions, though they distributed them by

measure, began to fail them. And now Simon, thinking he

might be able to astonish and delude the Romans, put on a

white frock, and buttoned upon him a purple cloak, and ap­

peared out of the ground in the place where the temple had

formerly been. At the first, indeed, those that saw him were

greatly astonished, and stood still where they were ; but after­

ward they came nearer to him, and asked him who he was ?

Now Simon would not tell them, but bid them call for their

captain; and when they ran to call him, Tcrentius Kufus,1

who was left to command the army there, came to Simon, and

learned of him the whole truth, and kept him in bonds, and

let Caesar know that he was taken. Thus did God bring this

man to be punished for what bitter and savage tyranny he

had exercised against his countrymen, by those who were his

worst enemies; and this while he was not subdued by vio­

lence, but voluntarily delivered himself up to them to be pun­

ished, and that on the very same account that he had laid

false accusations against many Jews, as if they were falling

away to the Romans, and had barbarously slain them; for

wicked actions do not escape the divine anger, nor is justice

too weak to punish offenders, but in time overtakes those that

transgress its laws, and inflicts its punishments upon the

wicked in a manner so much more severe, as they expected

1 This Terentius Rufus, as Reland in part observes here, is the same per­

son whom the Talmudists called Turmis Rufus, of whom they relate, that hs

ploughed up Sion as a field, and made Jerusalem become as heaps, and the moun­

tain of the house as the high places of a forest; Tvhich was long before fore­

told by the prophet Micah, iii. 12, and quoted from him in the prophecies

of Jeremiah, xxvi. 18

