II.] VESPASIAN.

CHAPTER II.

A GREAT SLAUGHTER OF THE JEWS ABOUT ASCALON. VESPA­

SIAN COMES TO PTOLEMAIS.

§ 1. Now the Jews, after they had beaten Cestius, were so

much elevated with their unexpected success, that they could

not govern their zeal, but like people blown up into a flame

by their good fortune, carried the war to remoter places.

Accordingly, they presently got together a great multitude

of all their most hardy soldiers, and marched away for Asca-

lon. This is an ancient city that is distant from Jerusalem

five hundred and twenty furlongs, and was always an enemy

to the Jews; on which account they determined to make their

first effort against it, and to make their approaches to it as

near as possible. This excursion was led on by three men,

who were the chief of them all both for strength and sagacity.

Niger, called the Peraite, Silas of Babylon, and, besides

them, John the Essene. Now Ascalon was strongly walled

about, but had almost no assistance to be relied on [near them,]

for the garrison consisted of one cohort of footmen, and one

troop of horsemen, whose captain was Antonius.

2. These Jews, therefore, out of their anger, marched faster

than ordinary, and, as if they had come but a little way,

approached very near the city, and were come even to it;

but Antonius, who was not unapprized of the attack they

were going to make upon the city, drew out his horsemen

beforehand, and being neither daunted at the multitude nor

at the courage of the enemy, received their first attacks with

great bravery ; and when they crowded to the very walls, he

beat them off. Now the Jews were unskilful in war, but were

to fight with those that were skilful therein ; they were foot­

men to fight with horsemen; they were in disorder to fight

those that were united together; they were poorly armed to

fight those that were completely so; they were to fight more

by their rage than by sober counsel, and were exposed to

soldiers that were exactly obedient, and did every thing they

