C. VII.] VESPASIAN TAKES GADARA. 125

men. This embassy the opposite party knew nothing of, but

discovered it as Vespasian was approaching near the city.

However, they despaired of keeping possession of the city,

as being inferior in number to their enemies which were

within the city, and seeing the Romans very near to the city ;

so they resolved to fly, but thought it dishonorable to do it

without shedding some blood, and revenging themselves on

the authors of this surrender; so they seized upon Dolesus

(a person not only the first in rank and family in that city,

but one that seemed the occasion of sending such an embassy,)

and slew him, and treated his dead body after a barbarous

manner, so very violent was their anger at him, and then ran

out of the city. And as now the Roman army was just upon

them, the people of Gadara admitted Vespasian with joyful

acclamations, and received from him the security of his right

hand; as also a garrison of horsemen and footmen, to guard

them against the excursions of the runagates; for as to their

wall, they had pulled it down before the Romans desired them

bo to do, that they might thereby give them assurance that

they were lovers of peace, and that, if they had a mind, they

could not now make war against them.

4. And now Vespasian sent Placidus against those that

had fled from Gadara, with five hundred horsemen and three

thousand footmen, while he returned himself to Csesarea with

the rest of the army. But as soon as these fugitives saw

the horsemen that pursued them just upon their backs, and

before they came to a close fight, they ran together to a

certain village which was called Bethennabris, where finding

a great multitude of young men, and arming them, partly by

their own consent, partly by force, they rashly and suddenly

assaulted Placidus and the troops that were with him. These

horsemen at the first onset gave way a little, as contriving to

entice them farther off the wall; and when they had drawn

them into a place fit for their purpose, they made their horse

encompass them round, and threw their darts at them. So

the horsemen cut off the flight of the fugitives, while the foot

terribly destroyed those that fought against them; for those

Jews did no more than show their courage, and then were

11*

