C. II.] JONATHAN. 257

as it were, cut off those limbs of their body which were in­

fected, in order to prevent the distemper's spreading farther ;

for they set the north-west cloister, which was joined to the

tower of Antonia, on fire, and after that broke off about

twenty cubits of that cloister, and thereby made a beginning

in burning the sanctuary: two days after which, or on the

twenty-fourth day of the forenamed month [Panemus or

Tamuz,] the Romans set fire to the cloister that joined to the

other, when the fire went fifteen cubits farther. The Jews,

in like manner, cut off its roof; nor did they entirely leave

off what they were about till the tower of Antonia was

parted from the temple, even when it was in their power to

have stopped the fire; nay, they lay still while the temple

was first set on fire, and deemed this spreading of the fire

to be for their own advantage. However, the armies were

still fighting one against another about the temple, and the

war was managed by continual sallies of particular parties

ajrainst one another.

10. Now there was at that time a man among the Jews;

low of stature he was, and of a despicable appearance; of

no character either as to his family, or in other respects; his

name was Jonathan. Ile went out at the high-priest John's

monument, and uttered many other insolent things to the

Romans, and challenged the best of them all to a single

combat. But many of those that stood there in the army

huffed him, and many of them (as they might well be) wero

afraid of him. Some of them also reasoned thus, and that

justly enough, that it was not fit to fight with a man that

desired to die : because those that utterly despaired of deliver­

ance had, besides other passions, a violence of attacking men

that could not be opposed, and had no regard to God himself:

and that to hazard one's self with a person, whom, if you

overcome, you do no great matter, and by whom it is

hazardous that you may be taken prisoner, would be an in­

stance not of manly courage, but of unmanly rashness. So

there being nobody that came out to accept the man's chal­

lenge, and the Jew cutting them with a great number of re­

proaches, as cowards (for he was a very haughty man in him­

22 *

