C. III.] THE HIGH-PEIEST ANANUS. 97

less they could cut off the robbers that were in it. The zea­

lots also thought that, unless they prevailed, there would be

no punishment so bad but it would be inflicted on them. So

their conflicts were conducted by their passions, and at the

first they only cast stones at each other in the city and before

the temple, and threw their javelins at a distance ; but when

either of them were too hard for the other, they made use of

their swords; and great slaughter was made on both sides,

and a great number were wounded. As for the dead bodies

of the people, their relations carried them out to their own

houses; but when any of the zealots were wounded, he went

up into the temple, and defiled that sacred floor with his blood,

insomuch that one may say it was their blood alone that pol­

luted our sanctuary. Now, in these conflicts the robbers

always sallied out of the temple, and were too hard for their

enemies; but the populace grew very angry, and became

more and more numerous, and reproached those that gave

back ; and those behind would not afford room to those that

were going off, but forced them on again, till at length they

made their whole body to turn against their adversaries, and

the robbers could no longer oppose them, but were forced

gradually to retire into the temple: when Ananus' and his

party fell into it at the same time together with them. This

horribly affrighted the robbers, because it deprived them of

the first court; so they fled into the inner court immediately,

and shut the gates. Now Ananus did not think fit to make

any attack against the holy gates, although the other threw

their stones and darts at them from above. He also deemed

it unlawful to introduce the multitude into that court before

they were purified; he therefore chose out of them all by lot

1 It is worth noticing here, that this Ananus, the best of the Jews at this

time, anil the high-priest, who was so very uneasy at the profanation of tho

Jewish courts of the temple by the zealots, did not, however, scruple the pro­

fanation of the court of the Gentiles, as in our Savior's days it was very
much

profaned by the Jews, and made a market-place, nay, a den of thieves, with­

out scruple. Matt. xxi. 12, 13; Mark xi. 15-17. Accordingly, Josephus

himself, when he spcaks of the two inner courts, calls them both aym, or holy

places, but, so far as I remember, he never gives that character of the court

of the Gentiles. See I!, v. ch. ix. sect. 2.

IV. — 9

