260 TEERIBLE FAMINE. [B. VI.

every one of them that perished were worthy of a memorial,

this man appeared to deserve it beyond all the rest. Now

the Jews admired this man for his courage, and were farther

desirous of having him slain; so they persuaded him to come

down to them upon security given him for his life. But Cor­

nelius his brother persuaded him on the contrary not to tar­

nish their own glory, nor that of the Roman army. He

complied with this last advice, and lifting up his sword before

both armies, he slew himself. Yet was there one Artorius

among those surrounded with the fire who escaped by his

subtilty; for when he had with a loud voice called to him

Lucius, one of his fellow-soldiers that lay with him in the

same tent, and said to him, — "I do leave thee heir of all I

have, if thou wilt come and receive me." Upon this he came

running to receive him readily : Artorius then threw himself

down upon him, and saved his own life, while he that received

him was dashed so vehemently against the stone pavement by

the other's weight, that he died immediately. This melan­

choly accident made the Romans sad for a while, but still it

made them more upon their guard for the future, and was of

advantage to them against the delusions of the Jews, by which

they were greatly damaged, through their unacquaintedness

with the places and with the nature of the inhabitants. Now

this cloister was burnt down as far as John's tower, which he

built in the war he made against Simon, over the gates that

led to the Xystus. The Jews also cut off the rest of that

cloister from the temple, after they had destroyed those that

got up to it. But the next day the Romans burnt down the

northern cloister entirely as far as the east cloister, whose

common angle joined to the valley that was called Cedron,

and was built over it; on which account the depth was fright­

ful. And this was the state of the temple at that time.

3. Now of those that perished by famine in the city the

number was prodigious, and the miseries they underwent wero

unspeakable; for if so much as the shadow of any kind of

food did any where appear, a war was commenced presently,

and the dearest friends fell a fighting one with another about

it, snatching from each other the most miserable supports of

