246 A BRA VB ROMAN. [D. VI.

it was not possible that he, who was but a mortal man, should

escape ; for as he had shoes' all full of thick and sharp nails,

as had every one of the other soldiers, so when he ran on the

pavement of the temple, he slipped, and fell down upon his back

with a very great noise, which was made by his armor. This

made those that were running away to turn back ; whereupon

those Romans that were in the tower of Antonia set up a

great shout, as they were in fear for the man. But the Jews

got about him in crowds, and struck at him with their spears

and with their swords on all sides. Now he received a great

many of the strokes of these iron weapons upon his shield,

and often attempted to get up again, but was thrown down

by those that struck at him j yet did he, as he lay along,

stab many of them with his sword. Nor was he soon killed,

as being covered with his helmet and his breast-plate in those

parts of his body where he might be mortally wounded: he

also pulled his neck close to his body till all his other limbs

were shattered, and nobody durst come to defend him, and

then he yielded to his fate. Now Caesar was deeply affected

on account of this man of so great fortitude, and especially

as he was killed in the sight of so many people ; he was de­

sirous himself to come to his assistance, but the place would

not give him leave, while such as could have done it were too

much terrified to attempt it. Thus, when Julian had strug­

gled with death a great while, and had let but few of those

that had given him his mortal wound go off unhurt, he had

at last his throat cut, though not without some difficulty, and

left behind him a very great fame, not only among the Ro­

mans and with Caesar himself, but among his enemies also ;

then did the Jews catch up his dead body, and put the Ro­

mans to flight again, and shut them up in the tower of An­

tonia. Now those that most signalized themselves, and fought

most zealously in this battle of the Jewish side, were one

Alexis and Gyphtheus of John's party, and of Simon's party

1 No wonder that this Julian, who had so many nails in his shoes, slipped

upon the pavement of the temple, which was smooth, and laid with marble

of different colors.

