CXI.] AND OVERTHROWN. 221

take the pains to extinguish the fire, since if it were ex足

tinguished, the banks were swallowed up already [and become

useless to them.]

5. Two days after this, Simon and his party made an

attempt to destroy the other banks; for the Romans had

brought their engines to bear there, and began already to

make the wall shake. And here one Tephtheus of Garsis,

a city of Galilee, and Megassarus, one who was derived from

some of queen Mariamne's servants, and with them one from

Adiabene, he was the son of Nabateus, and called by the

name of Chagiras, from the ill fortune he had, the word

signifying a lame man, snatched some torches, and ran sud足

denly upon the engines. Nor were there during this war

any men that ever sallied out of the city who were their

superiors, either in their own boldness or in the terror they

struck into their enemies. For they ran out upon the Ro足

mans, not as if they were enemies but friends, without fear

or delay; nor did they leave their enemies till they had

rushed violently through the midst of them, and set their

machines on fire. And though they had darts thrown at

them on every side, and were on every side assaulted with

their enemies' swords, yet did they not withdraw themselves

out of the dangers they were in till the fire had caught hold

of the instruments; but when the flame went up, the Romans

came running from their camp to save their engines. Then

did the Jews hinder their succors from the wall, and fought

with those that endeavored to quench the fire without any

regard to the danger their bodies were in. So the Romans

pulled the engines out of the fire, while the hurdles that

covered them were on fire : but the Jews caught hold of the

battering-rams through the flame itself, and held them fast,

although the iron upon them was become red-hot: and now

the fire spread itself from the engines to the banks, and pre足

vented those that came to defend them; and all this while

the Romans were encompassed round about with the flame,

and, despairing of saving their works from it, they retired to

their camp. Then did the Jews become still more and mom

in number, by the coming of those that were within the city

19*

