466 DISSERTATION I.

THE ANCIENT CITATIONS OF THE TESTIMONIES OF JOSEPHUS,

FROM HIS OWN TIME TILL THE END OF THE FIFTEENTH CEN­

TURY.

About A. D. 110. Tacit. Annal. lib. xv. cap. 44.—Nero,

in order to stifle the rumor [as if he had himself set Rome

on fire,] ascribed it to those people who were hated for their

wicked practices, and called by the vulgar Christians: these

he punished exquisitely. The author of this name was Christ,

who, in the reign of Tiberius, was brought to punishment by

Pontius Pilate the Procurator.

About A. D. 147. Just. Mart. Dialog, cum Trypho, p.

234. — You [Jews] knew that Jesus was risen from the dead,

and ascended into heaven, as the prophecies did foretell was

to happen.

About A. D. 230. Origen. Comment, on Matth. p. 230.

— This James was of so shining a character among the peo­

ple, on account of his righteousness, that Flavius Josephus,

when, in his twentieth book of the Jewish Antiquities, he had

a mind to set down what was the cause why the people suf­

fered such miseries, till the very holy house was demolished,

he said, that these things befell them by the anger of God,

on account of what they had dared to do to James, the bro­

ther of Jesus, who was called Christ: and wonderful it is,

that, while he did not receive Jesus for Christ, he did never­

theless bear witness that James was so righteous a-man. He

says farther, that the people thought that they suffered these

things for the sake of James.

About A. D. 250. Contr. Cels. lib. i. p. 35, 36. —I would

say to Celsus, who personates a Jew, that admitted of John

the Baptist, and how he baptised Jesus, that one who lived

but a little while after John and Jesus, wrote, how that John

was a baptizer unto the remission of sins: for Josephus testi­

fies in the eighteenth book of Jewish Antiquities, that John

was the Baptist, and that ho promised purification to those

that were baptised. The same Josephus also, although he did

not believe in Jesus as Christ, when he was inquiring after

