164 TITUS AT JERUSALEM. [B. V.

and ran with violence into the midst of his enemies, in order

to force his way through them to his own men. And hence

we may principally learn, that both the success of wars, and

the dangers that kings1 are in, are under the providence of

God: for while such a number of darts were thrown at Titus,

when he had neither his head-piece on nor his breast-plate,

(for, as I told you, he went out not to fight, but to view the

city,) none of them touched his body, but went aside without

hurting him, as if all of them missed him on purpose, and

only made a noise as they passed by him. So he diverted

those perpetually with his sword that came on his side, and

overturned many of those that directly met him, and made

his horse ride over those that were overthrown. The enemy

indeed made a shout at the boldness of Caesar, and exhorted

one another to rush upon him. Yet did those against whom

he marched fly away, and go off from him in great numbers;

while those that were in the same danger with him kept up

close to him, though they were wounded both on their backs

and on their sides; for they had each of them but this one

hope of escaping, if they could assist Titus in opening him­

self a way, that he might not be encompassed round by his

enemies before he got away from them. Now there were two

of those that were with him, but at some distance; the one

of which the enemy had encompassed round, and slew him

with their darts, and his horse also; but the other they slew

as he leaped down from his horse, and carried off his horse

with them. But Titus escaped with the rest, and came safe

to the camp. So this success of the Jews' first attack raised

their minds, and gave them an ill grounded hope; and this

short inclination of fortune on their side made them very

courageous for the future.

3. But now, as soon as that legion that had been at Era-

maus was joined to Caesar at night, he removed thence when

it was day, and came to a place named Scopus ; from whence

the city began already to be seen, and a plain view might be

taken of the great temple. Accordingly, this place on the

north quarter of the city, and adjoining thereto, was a plain,

1 See the preceding note.

