400 FLAVIUS JOSEPHUS [B. I.

then says that " those who came from Jerusalem, and made

this invasion, got the granaries of Egypt into their possession,

and perpetrated many of the most horrid actions there." And

thence he reproaches them, as though he had not himself in­

troduced them as enemies, or as though he might accuse such

as were invited from another place for so doing, when tho

natural Egyptians themselves had done the same things before

their coming, and had taken oaths so to do. However, "Ame-

nophis some time afterward came upon them, and conquered

them in battle, and slew his enemies, and drove them before

him as far as Syria." As if Egypt were so easily taken by

people that come from any place whatsoever; and as if those

that had conquered it by war, when they were informed that

Amenophis was alive, did neither fortify the avenues out of

Ethiopia into it, although they had great advantages for doing

it, nor did get their other forces ready for their defence; but

that " he followed them over the sandy desert, and slew them

as far as Syria;" while yet it is not an easy thing for an

army to pass over that country, even without fighting.

30. Our nation, therefore, according to Manctho, was not

derived from Egypt, nor were any of the Egyptians mingled

with us. For it is to be supposed that many of the leprous

and distempered people were dead in the mines, since they

had been there a long time, and in so ill a condition ; many

others must be dead in the battles that happened afterward,

and more still in the last battle and flight after it.

31. It now remains that I debate with Manetho about

Moses. Now tho Egyptians acknowledge him to have been

a wonderful and a divine person; nay, they would willingly

lay claim to him themselves, though after a most abusive and

incredible manner, and pretend that ho was of Hcliopolis,

and one of the priests of that place, and was ejected out of

it among the rest, on account of his leprosy ; although it had

been demonstrated out of their records, that he lived five

hundred and eighteen years earlier, and then brought our

forefathers out of Egypt into the country that is now in­

habited by us. But now that he was not subject in his body

to any such calamity, is evident from what he himself tellp

