B. I.] AGAINST APION. 377

relating the acts of this king, he describes to us, — " How he

sent his son Nabuchodonosor against Egypt, and against our

land, with a great army, upon his being informed that they

had revolted from him; and how, by that means, he subdued

them all, and set our temple that was at Jerusalem on fire;

nay, and removed our people entirely out of their own country,

and transferred them to Babylon; when it so happened that

our city was desolate during the interval of seventy years,

until the days of Cyrus king of Persia." He then says that

" this Babylonian king conquered Egypt, and Syria, and

Phoenicia, and Arabia, and exceeded in his exploits all that

had reigned before him in Babylon and Chalden." A little

after which Berosus subjoins what follows in his history of

ancient times : I will set down Berosus's own accounts, which

are these. — " When Nabolassar, father of Nabuchodonosor,

heard that the governor whom he had set over Egypt, and

over the parts of Celosyria and Phoenicia had revolted from

him, he was not able to hear it any longer, but committing

certain parts of his army to his son Nabuchodonosor, who was

then but young, he sent him against the rebel: Nabuchodo­

nosor joined battle with him, and conquered him, and reduced

the country under his dominion again. Now, it so fell out

that his father Nabolassar fell into a distemper at this time,

and died in the city of Babylon, after he had reigned twenty-

nine years. But as he understood, in a little time, that his

father Nabolassar was dead, he set the affairs of Egypt and

the other countries in order, and committed the captives he

had taken from the Jews, and Phoenicians, and Syrians, and

of the nations belonging to Egypt, to some of his friends, that

they might conduct that part of the forces that had on heavy

armor, with the rest of his baggage to Babylonia, while he

went in haste, having but a few with him, over the desert to

Babylon, whither, when he was come, he found the public

affairs had been managed by the Chaldeans, and that the

principal person among them had preserved the kingdom for

him. Accordingly, he now entirely obtained all his father's

dominions. He then came and ordered the captives to be

placed as colonies in the most proper places of Babylonia:

32*

