B. I.] AGAINST APION. 881

nezzar he began to besiege Tyre, and Cyrus the Persian took

the kingdom on the fourteenth year of Hirom. So that the

records of the Chaldeans and Tyrians agree with our writings

about this temple ; and the testimonies here produced are an

indisputable and undeniable attestation to the antiquity of our

nation. And I suppose that what I have already said may

be sufficient to such as are not very contentious.

22. But now it is proper to satisfy the inquiry of those

that disbelieve the records of barbarians, and think none but

Greeks to be worthy of credit, and to produce many of these

very Greeks who were acquainted with our nation, and to set

before them such as upon occasion have made mention of us

in their own writings. Pythagoras, therefore, of Samos,

lived in very ancient times, and was esteemed a person su­

perior to all philosophers in wisdom and piety towards God.

Now it is plain, that he did not only know our doctrines, but

-was in a very great measure a follower and admirer of them.  
There is not, indeed, extant' any writing that is owned for

his; but many there are who have written his history, of

whom Hermippus is the most celebrated, who was a person

very inquisitive into all sort of history. Now this Hcrmip-

pus, in his first book concerning Pythagoras, speaks thus:—

That "Pythagoras, upon the death of one of his associates,

whose name was Calliphon, a Crotoniate by birth, affirmed

that this man's soul conversed with him both night and day,

and enjoined him not to pass over a place where an ass had

fallen down ; as also, not to drink of such waters as caused

thirst again, and to abstain from all sorts of reproaches."

After which he adds this : — " This he did and said in imita­

tion of the doctrines of the Jews and Thracians, which he

transferred into his own philosophy." For it is very truly

affirmed of this Pythagoras, that he took a great many of the

laws of the Jews into his own philosophy. Nor was our

1 This is a thing well known by the learned, that we are not secure that

we hare any genuine writings of Pythagoras ; those Golden Verses, which

are his best remains, being generally supposed to have been written not by

himself, but by some of his scholars only, in agreement with what Josephus

here affirms of him.

