442 FLAVIUSJOSEPHtJS [b. II

another, ought not to bo required back again. No one is to

touch another's goods. He that lends money must not de­

mand usury for its loan. These and many more of the like

sort are the rules that unite us in the bands of society one

with another.

29. It will be also worth our while to see what equity our

legislator would have us exercise in our intercourse with

strangers ; for it will thence appear, that he made the best

provision he possibly could, both that we should not dissolve

our own constitution, nor show any envious mind towards

those that would cultivate a friendship with us. Accordingly,

our legislator admits all those that have a mind to observe

our laws so to do, and this after a friendly manner, as es­

teeming that a true union which not only extends to our own

stock, but to those that would live after the same manner

with us: yet does he not allow those that come to us by ac­

cident only to be admitted into communion with us.

30. However, there are other things which our legislator

ordained for us beforehand, which of necessity we ought to

do in common to all men; as to afford fire, and water, and

food to such as want it; to show them the roads ; nor to let

any one lie unburied. He also would have us treat those that

are esteemed our enemies with moderation ; for he doth not

allow us to set their country on fire, nor to permit us to cut

down those trees that bear fruit; nay, farther, he forbids us

to spoil those that have been slain in war. He hath also

provided for such as are taken captive, that they may not be

injured, and especially that the women may not be abused.

Indeed, he hath taught us gentleness and humanity so ef­

fectually, that he hath not despised the care of brute beasts,

by permitting no other than a regular use of them, and for­

bidding any other; and if any of them come to our houses,

like supplicants, we are forbidden to slay them : nor may we

kill the dams, together with their young ones; but we are

obliged, even in an enemy's country, to spare and not kill

those creatures that labor for mankind. Thus hath our law­

giver contrived to teach us an equitable conduct every way,

by using us to such laws as instruct us therein ; while at the

