C. V.] IDE TEMPLE. 179

those porticoes curious pillars; yet were all the courts that

were exposed to the air every where green. There were,

moreover, several groves of trees, and long walks through

them, with deep canals and cisterns that in several parts were

filled with brazen statues, through which the water ran out.

There were withal many dove-courts,1 of tame pigeons about

the canals. But, indeed, it is not possible to give a complete

description of these palaces; and the very remembrance of

them is a torment to one, as putting one in mind what vastly

rich buildings that fire which was kindled by the robbers hath

consumed : for these were not burnt by the Romans, but by

these internal plotters, as we have already related, in the be­

ginning of their rebellion. That fire began at the tower of

Antonia, and went on to the palaces, and consumed the upper

parts of the three towers themselves.

CHAPTER V.

A DESCRIPTION OF THE TEMPLE.

§ 1. Now this temple, as I have already said, was built

upon a strong hill. At first the plain at the top was hardly

sufficient for the holy house and the altar; for the ground

about it was very uneven, and like a precipice; but when king

Solomon, who was the person that built the temple, had built

a wall to it, on its cast side, there was then added one cloister

founded on a bank cast up for it, and on the other parts the

holy house stood naked. But in future ages the people2 added

1 These dove-courts in Josephus, built by Herod the Great, are, in the

opinion of Reland, the very same that are mentioned by the Talmudists, and

named by them 1Irrod's dove-courts. Nor is there any reason to suppose

otherwise, since in both accounts they were expressly tamo pigeons which

were kept in them.

* See the description of the temples hereto belonging;, chap. xv. But note,  
that what Josephus here says of the original scantiness of this mount Moriah,

that it was quite too little for the temple, and that at first it held only
one

",loister, or court of Solomon's building, and that the foundations were
forced

to be added long afterwards by degrees, to render it capable of the cloisters

