C. V.] TRIUMPH OF THE ROMAN BMPERORS. 311

that was had been by him taken by force; nay, he frequently

cursed those that had been the authors of their revolt, and

had brought such a punishment upon the city; insomuch that

it openly appeared, that he did not desire that such a calamity

as this punishment of theirs amounted to should be a demon­

stration of his courage. Yet was there no small quantity of

the riches that had been in that city still found among its

ruins, a great deal of which the Romans dug up; but the

greatest part was discovered by those who were captives, and

so they carried it away : I mean the gold and the silver, and

the rest of that most precious furniture which the Jews had,

and which the owners had treasured up under ground against

the uncertain fortunes of war.

3. So Titus took the journey he intended to Egypt, and

passed over the desert very suddenly, and came to Alexan­

dria, and took up a resolution to go to Rome by sea. And

as he was accompanied by two legions, he sent each of them

again to the places whence they had before come; the fifth

he sent to Mysia and the fifteenth to Pannonia: as for the

leaders of the captives, Simon and John, with the other seven

hundred men, whom he had selected out of the rest, as being

eminently tall and handsome of body, he gave order that they

should be soon carried to Italy, as resolving to produce them

in his triumph. So when he had had a prosperous voyage to

his mind, the city of Rome behaved itself in his reception,

and their meeting him at a distance, as it did in the case of

his father. But what made the most splendid appearance in

Titus's opinion was, when his father met him and received

him; hut still the multitude of the citizens conceived the

greatest joy when they saw them all three' together, as they

did at this time: nor were many days overpast when they

determined to have but one triumph, that should be common

to both of them, on account of the glorious exploits they had

performed, although the senate had decreed each of them a

separate triumph by himself. So when notice had been given

beforehand of the day appointed for this pompous solemnity

to be made on account of their victories, not one of the im-

1 Vespasian, and bis two sons, Titus and Domitian.

