c. viii.] eleazar's speeches. 341

and not in betraying their liberty; but as to the multitude of

those that are now under the Romans, who would not pity

their condition ? and who would not make haste to die, before

he would suffer the same miseries with them ? Some of them

have been put upon the rack, and tortured with fire and

whippings, and so died. Some of them have been half-

devoured by wild beasts, and yet have been reserved alive

to bo devoured by them a second time, in order to afford

laughter and sport to our enemies; and such of those as

are alive, still are to be looked on as the most miserable,

who being so desirous of death could not come at it. And

where is now that great city, the metropolis of the Jewish

nation ? which was fortified by so many walls round about,

which had so many fortresses and large towers to defend

it, which could hardly contain the instruments prepared for

the war, and which had so many ten thousands of men to

fight for it ? Where is this city that was believed to have

God himself inhabitant therein ? It is now demolished to the

very foundations, and hath nothing but that monument of it

preserved, I mean the camp of those that have destroyed it,

which still dwells upon its ruins; some unfortunate old men

also lie upon the ashes of the temple, and a few women are

there preserved alive by the enemy for our bitter shame and

reproach. Now, who is there that revolves these things in

his mind, and yet is able to bear the sight of the sun, though

he might live out of danger ? Who is there so much his coun­

try's enemy, or so unmanly, and so desirous of living, as not

to repent that he is still alive ? and I cannot but wish that

we had all died, before we had seen that holy city demolished

by the hands of our enemies, or the foundations of our holy

temple dug up after so profane a manner. But since we had

a generous hope that deluded us, as if we might, perhaps,

have been able to avenge ourselves on our enemies on that

account, though it be now become vanity, and hath left us

alone in this distress, let us make haste to die bravely. Let

us pity ourselves, our children, and our wives, while it is in

our own power to show pity to them ; for we were born to

29 *

