408 F L A V I U S J"0 S E P H L S [B. II.

ever, it is not a very easy thing to go over this man's dis­

course, nor to know plainly what he means; yet does he

seem, amidst a great confusion and disorder in his falsehoods,

to produce, in the first place, such things as resemble what

we have examined already, and relate to the departure of our

forefathers out of Egypt: and, in the second place, he ac­

cuses those Jews that arc inhabitants of Alexandria; as, in

the third place, he mixes with those things such accusations

as concern the sacred purifications with the other legal rites

used in the temple.

2. Now, although I cannot but think that I have already

demonstrated, and that abundantly more than was necessary,

that our fathers were not originally Egyptians, nor were

thence expelled, neither on account of bodily diseases or any

other calamities of that sort; yet will I briefly take notice of

what Apion adds upon that subject: for in his third book,

which relates to the affairs of Egypt, he speaks thus: " I

have heard of the ancient men of Egypt, that Moses was of Hc-

liopolis, and that he thought himself obliged to follow the

customs of his forefathers, and offered his prayers in the open

air towards the city walls ; but that he reduced them all to be

directed towards sunrising, which was agreeable to the situa­

tion of Heliopolis: that he also set up pillars instead of

gnomons,1 under which was represented a cavity like that of

a boat, and the shadow that fell from their tops fell down

upon that cavity, that it might go round about the like course

as the sun itself goes round in the other." This is that won­

derful relation which we have given us by this great gram­

marian. But that it is a false one is so plain, that it stands

in need of few words to prove it, but is manifest from the

works of Moses; for when he erected the first tabernacle to

God, he did himself neither give order for any such kind of a

representation to be made at it, nor ordain that those that

came after him should make such a one. Moreover, when,

in a future age, Solomon built his temple in Jerusalem, he

1 This seems to have been the first dial Miat had been made in Egypt, and

was a little before the time that Ahaz made his [first] dial in Judea, and

about anno 755, in the first year of the seventh Olympiad as we shall see

presently. Sec 2 Kings, xx. 11 ; Isaiah, xxxviii. 8.

