C. IX.J THE SIEGE. 201

been injured? Will not you turn again and look back, and

consider whence it is that you fight with such violence, and

how great a supporter you have profanely abused ? Will not

you recall to mind the prodigious things done for your fore­

fathers and this holy place, and how great enemies of yours

were by him subdued under you ? I even tremble myself in

declaring the works of God before your ears that are un­

worthy to hear them; however, hearken to me, that you may

be informed how you fight not only against the Romans, but

against God himself. In old time there was one Necao, king

of Egypt, who was also called Pharaoh ; he came with a pro­

digious army of soldiers, and seized Queen Sarah, the mother

of our nation. What did Abraham our progenitor then do?

Did he defend himself from this injurious person by a war,

although he had three hundred and eighteen captains under

him, and an immense army under each of them. Indeed,

he deemed them to be no number at all without God's assist­

ance, and only spread out his hands towards this holy place,1

which you have now polluted, and reckoned upon him as

upon his invincible supporter, instead of his own army. Was

not our queen sent back, without any defilement, to her hus­

band the very next evening ? while the king of Egypt fled

away, adoring this place, which you have defiled by shed­

ding thereon the blood of your own countrymen; and he

also trembled at those visions which he saw in the night

season, and bestowed both silver and gold on the Hebrews,

as on a people beloved by God. Shall I say nothing, or

shall I mention the removal of our fathers into Egypt, whe

when they were used tyrannically, and were fallen under the

power of foreign kings for four hundred years together, and

might have defended themselves by war and by fighting, did

yet do nothing but commit themselves to God? Who is

1 Josephus supposes, in this his admirable speech to tho Jews, that not

Abraham only, but Pharaoh, king of Egypt, prayed towards a temple at Je­

rusalem, or towards Jerusalem, itself, in which were Mount Zion and Mount

Moriah, on which the tabernacle and temple did afterwards stand ; and this

long before either the Jewish tabernacle or temple was built. Nor is the

famous command given by God to Abraham to go two or three days' journey

on purpose to offer up his son Isiac there, unfavorable to such a notion.

