B. I.] AGAINST APION. 397

before him had already seen them. He had then been in­

formed what sort of gods were, and after what manner they

had been seen, insomuch that he did not stand in need of any

new artifice for obtaining this sight. However, the prophet

by whose means the king thought to compass his design was

a wise man. If so, how came he not to know that such his

desire was impossible to be accomplished ? for the event did

not succeed. And what pretence could there be to suppose

that the gods would not be seen by reason of the people's

maims in their bodies, or leprosy ? for the gods are not angry

at the imperfection of bodies, but at wicked practices: and as

to eighty thousand lepers, and those in an ill state also, how

is it possible to have them gathered together in one day ? nay,

how came the king not to comply with the prophet ? for his

injunction was that those who were maimed should be expelled

out of Egypt, while the king only sent them to work in the

quarries, as if he were rather in want of laborers than intended

to purge bis country. He says farther, that " this prophet

slew himself, as foreseeing the anger of the gods, and those

events which were to come upon Egypt afterward; and that

he left this prediction for the king in writing." Besides, how

came it to pass that this prophet did not foreknow his own

death at the first? nay, how came he not to contradict the

king in his desire to see the gods immediately ? how came

that unreasonable dread upon him of judgments that were not

to happen in his life-time ? or what worse thing could he suffer,

out of the fear of which he made haste to kill himself? But

now let us see the silliest thing of all. — The king, although

he had been informed of these things, and terrified with the

fear of what was to come, yet did not he even then eject these

maimed people out of his country, when it had been foretold

him that he was to clear Egypt of them: but as Manetho

says, — " He then, upon their request, gave them that city to

inhabit, which had formerly belonged to the shepherds, and

was called Avaris ; whither when they were gone in crowds,"

he says, " they chose one that had formerly been priest of He-

liopolis ; and that this priest first ordained that they should

neither worship the gods nor abstain from those animals that

IV. — 34

