B. II.] AGAINST APION. 447

daughter he brought forth from his own head,) made a con­

spiracy against him to seize upon him and confine him, as he

had himself seized upon and confined his own father before.

35. And justly have the wisest men thought these notions

deserved severe rebukes ; they also laugh at them for deter­

mining that we ought to believe some of the gods to be beard­

less and young, and others of them to bo old, and to have

beards accordingly: that some are set to trades: that one god

is a smith, and another goddess is a weaver; that one god is

a warrior, and fights with men: that some of them are harp­

ers, or delight in archery; and, besides, that mutual seditions

arise among them, and that they quarrel about men, and this

so far that they not only lay hands upon one another, but

that they are wounded by men, and lament, and take on for

such their afflictions. But what is the grossest of all in point

of lasciviousness, are those unbounded lusts ascribed to almost

all of them and their amours, which how can it be other than

a most absurd supposal, especially when it reaches to the male

gods, and to the female goddesses also? Moreover, the chief

of all their gods, and their first father himself, overlooks those

goddesses whom he hath deluded and begotten with child, and

suffers them to be kept in prison or drowned in the sea. He

is also so bound up by fate, that he cannot save his own off­

spring, nor can he bear their deaths without shedding of tears.

These are fine things, indeed! as are the rest that follow.

Adulteries truly are so impudently looked on in heaven by

the gods, that some of them have confessed they envied those

that were bound in the very act. And why should they not

do so, when the eldest of them, who is their king also, hath

not been able to restrain himself in the violence of his lust

from lying with his wife so long as they might get into their

bed-chamber ? Now some of the gods are servants to men,

and will sometimes be builders for a reward, and sometimes

will be shepherds; while others of them, like malefactors, are

bound up in a prison of brass. And what sober person is

there who would not be provoked at such stories, and rebuke

those that forged them, and condemn the great silliness of

those that admit them for true ? Nay, others there are that

