52 VESPASIAN. [B. III.

lutions of ages, they are again sent into pure bodies; whilo

the souls of those whose hands have acted madly against

themselves are received by the darkest place in Hades, and

while God, who is their father, punishes those that offend

against either of them in their posterity; for which reason

God hates such doings, and the crime is punished by our

most wise legislator. Accordingly, our laws determine, that

the bodies of such as kill themselves should be exposed till

the sun be set, without burial, although at the same time it

be allowed by them to be lawful to bury our enemies [sooner].

The laws of other nations also enjoin such men's hands to be

cut off when they are dead, which had been made use of in

destroying themselves when alive, while they reckoned, that

as the body is alien from the soul, so is the hand alien from

the body. It is, therefore, my friends, a right thing to reason

justly, and not add to the calamities which men bring upon

us, impiety towards our Creator. If wo have a mind to pre­

serve ourselves, let us do it; for to be preserved by those our

enemies to whom we have given so many demonstrations of

our courage, is no way inglorious ; but if we have a mind to

die, it is good to die by the hand of those that have conquered

us. For my part, I will not run over to our enemies' quarters,

in order to be a traitor to myself; for certainly I should

then be much more foolish than those that deserted to the

enemy, since they did it in order to save themselves, and I

should do it for destruction, for my own destruction. How­

ever, I heartily wish the Romans may prove treacherous in

this matter; for if, after their offer of their right hand for

security, I be slain by them, I shall die cheerfully, and carry

away with me the sense of their perfidiousness, as a conso­

lation greater than victory itself."

6. Now these and many the like motives did Josephus use

to these men to prevent their murdering themselves; but

desperation had shut their ears, as having long ago devoted

themselves to die, and they were irritated at Josephus.

They then ran upon him with their swords in their hands,

one from one quarter and another from another, and called

him a coward, and every one of them appeared openly as if

