C.X.] SIEGE OF TARICHEiE. 65

as did the others with a great noise after him, and extended

themselves upon the plain as wide as the enemy which con­

fronted them, by which means they appeared much more nu­

merous than they really were. Now the Jews, although they

were surprised at their onset and at their good order, made

resistance against their attacks for a little while ; but when

they were pricked with their long poles, and overborne by

the violent noise of the horsemen, they came to be trampled

under their feet; many also of them were slain on every side,

which made them disperse themselves and run to the city as

fast as every one of them were able. So Titus pressed upon

the hindmost, and slew them; and of the rest some he fell

upon as they stood on heaps, and some he prevented, and

met them in the mouth, and run them through; many also

he leaped upon as they fell one upon another, and trod them

down, and cut off all the retreat they had to the wall, and

turned them back into the plain, till at last they forced a

passage by their multitude, and got away, and ran into tho

city.

4. But now there fell out a terrible sedition among them

within the city; for the inhabitants themselves, who had

possessions there, and to whom the city belonged, were not

disposed to fight from the very beginning; and now the less

so, because they had been beaten ; but the foreigners, which

were very numerous, would force them to fight so much tho

more, insomuch that there was a clamor and a tumult among

them, as all mutually angry one at another. And when

Titus heard this tumult, for he was not far from the wall, he

cried out, — " Fellow-soldiers, now is the time; and why do

we make any delay, when God is giving up the Jews to us ?

Take the victory which is given you: do not you hear what a

noise they make ? Those that have escaped our hands are

in an uproar against one another. We have the city, if we

make haste: but besides haste, we must undergo some labor,

and use some courage; for no great thing uses to be ac­

complished without danger: accordingly, wo must not only

prevent their uniting again, which necessity will soon compel

them to do, but we must also prevent the coming of our own

6*

