C. IX.] SIMON OF GERASA. 143

12. And thus did Simon get possession of Jerusalem in tho

third year of the war, in the month Xanthicus [Nisan;] where足

upon John, with his multitude of zealots, as being both pro足

hibited from coming out of the temple, and having lost their

power in the city (for Simon and his party had plundered

them of what they had,) were in despair of deliverance. Simon

also made an assault upon the temple, with the assistance of

the people, while the others stood upon the cloisters and the

battlements, and defended themselves from their assaults.

However, a considerable number of Simon's party fell, and

many were carried off wounded, for the zealots threw their

darts easily from a superior place, and seldom failed of hitting

their enemies; but having tho advantage of situation, and

having withal erected four very large towers aforehand, that

their darts might come from higher places, one at the south足

east corner of the court, one above the Xystus, the third at

another corner, over against the lower city, and the last was

erected above the top of the Pastophoria, where one of the

priests stood of course, and gave a signal' beforehand with a

trumpet, at the beginning of every seventh day, in the evening

twilight, as also at the evening when that day was finished, as

giving notice to the people when they were to leave off work

and when they were to go to work again. These men also set

their engines to cast darts and stones withal upon those towers,

with their archers and slingers. And now Simon made his

assault upon the temple more faintly, by reason that the

greatest part of his men grew weary of that work; yet did he

not leave off his opposition, because his army was superior to

the others, although the darts which were thrown by the en足

gines were carried a great way, and slew many of those that

fought for him.

1 This beginning and ending the observation of the Jewish seventh day, or

Sabbath, with a priest's blowing of a trumpet, is remarkable, and nowhere

else mentioned, that I know of. Nor is Reland's conjecture here improbable,

that this was the very place that has puzzled our commentators so long,

called Mutach Sabalti, the Covert of the Sabbath, if that be the true reading,

2 Kings xvi. 18, because here the proper priest stood dry, under a covering,

to proclaim the beginning and ending of every Jewish Sabbath.

