c. vm.] eleazar's speeches. 33'J

duct them to their death more readily than do any of the rest

of mankind conduct their fellow-citizens when they are going

a very long journey, who at the same time weep on their own

account, but look upon the others as happy persons, as so

soon to be made partakers of the immortal order of beings.

Are not we, therefore, ashamed to have lower notions than

the Indians ? and by our own cowardice to lay a base reproach

upon the laws of our country, which are so much desired and

imitated by all mankind ? But put the case that wo had been

brought up under another persuasion, and thought that life

is the greatest good which men are capable of, artd that death

is a calamity; however, the circumstances we are now in ought

to be an inducement to us to bear such calamity courageously,

since it is by the will of God and by necessity that we are to

die; for it now appears that God hath made such a decree

against the whole Jewish nation, that we are to be deprived

of this life which [he knew] we would not make a due use of:

for do not you ascribe the occasion of your present condition

to yourselves, nor think the Romans are the true occasion

that this war we have had with them is become so destructive

to us all: these things have not come to pass by their power,

but a more powerful cause hath intervened, and made us af­

ford them an occasion of their appearing to be conquerors

over us. What Roman weapons, I pray you, were those by

which the Jews of Caesarca were slain ? On the contrary,

when they were no way disposed to rebel, but were all the

while keeping their seventh day festival, and did not so much

as lift up their hands against the citizens of Caesarca, yet did

those citizens run upon them in great crowds, and cut their

throats and the throats of their wives and children, and this

without any regard to the Romans themselves, who never

took us for their enemies till we revolted from them. But

some may be ready to say, that truly the people of Caesarea

had always a quarrel against those that lived among them,

and that, when an opportunity offered itself, they satisfied the

old rancor they had against them. What, then, shall we say

to those of Scythopolis, who ventured to wage war with us

on account of the Greeks ? Nor did they do it by way of re­

