B. II.] AGAINST APION. 425

and carried oft'that golden head of an ass (for so facetiously

does he write,) and then went his way back again to Dora in

great haste." And say you so, sir? as I may reply: then

does Apion load the ass, that is himself, and lays on him a

burden of fooleries and lies: for he writes of places that have

no being, and not knowing the cities he speaks of, he changes

their situation ; for Idumea borders upon our country, and is

near to Gaza, in which there is no such city as Dora;

although there be, it is true, a city named Dora in Phoe­

nicia, near mount Carmel, but it is four days journey from

Idumea.1 Now, then, why does this man accuse us, because

we have not gods in common with other nations ? If our

forefathers were so easily prevailed upon to have Apollo

come to them, and thought they saw him walking upon the

earth, and the stars with him; for certainly those who have

so many festivals, wherein they light lamps, must yet, at this

rate, have never seen a candlestick ! but still it seems that

while Zabidus took his journey over the country, where were

so many ten thousands of people, nobody met him. lle also,

it seems, even in a time of war, found the walls of Jerusalem

destitute of guards : I omit the rest. Now, the doors of the

holy house were seventy2 cubits high and twenty cubits

broad; they were all plated over with gold, and almost of

solid gold itself, and there were no fewer than twenty3 men

required to shut them every day; nor was it lawful ever to

leave them open, though it seems, this lamp-bearer of ours

opened them easily, or thought he opened them, as he thought

he had the ass's head in his hand. Whether, therefore, he

returned it to us again, or whether Apion took it and brought

it into the temple again, that Antiochus might find it, and

afford a handle for a second fable of Apion's, is uncertain.

11. Apion also tells a false story, when he mentions an

oath of ours, as if we "swore by God, the maker of the

1 Judea in the Greek, by a gross mistake of the transcribers.

2 Seven, in the Greek, by a like gross mistake of the transcribers. See

of the War, B. v. eh. v. sect. 4.

3 Two hundred, in the Greek, contrary to the twenty in the Wak-, B. vii.

cb. T. sect. 3.

36*

