C.X.] THE SICAR1I AT ALEXANDRIA. 347

to confess, that Caesar was their lord; hut they preserved

their own opinion, in spite of all the distress they were

brought to, as if they received those torments and the fire it­

self with bodies insensible of pain, and with a soul that in

manner rejoiced under them. But what was most of all .as­

tonishing to the beholders, was the age of the children; for

not one of these children was so far overcome by these tor­

ments as to name Caesar for their lord. • So far does the

strength of the courage [of the soul] prevail over the weak­

ness of the body.

2. Now Lupus did then govern Alexandria; who presently

sent Caesar word of this commotion; who having in suspicion

the restless temper of the Jews for innovation, and being

afraid lest they should get together again, and persuade some

others to join with them, gave orders to Lupus to demolish

that Jewish temple1 which was in the region called Onion,

and was in Egypt, which was built, and had its denomination

from the occasion following: —Onias, the son of Simon, one

of the Jewish high-priests, fled from Antiochus, the king of

Syria, when he made war with the Jews, and came to Alex­

andria ; and as Ptolemy received him very kindly, on account

of his hatred to Antiochus, ho assured him, that, if he would

comply with his proposal, he would bring all the Jews to his

assistance; and when the king agreed to do it so far as he

was able, he desired him to give him leave to build a temple

somewhere in Egypt, and to worship God according to the

customs of his own country; for that the Jews would then

be so much readier to fight against Antiochus, who had laid

waste the temple at Jerusalem; and that they would then

come to him with greater good-will; and that, by granting

them liberty of conscience, very many of them would come

over to him.

1 Of this temple of Onias's building in Egypt, see the notes on Antiq. B.

xiii. ch. iii. sect. 1. But whereas it is elsewhere, both Of the War, B. i.
ch. i.

scot. 1, ami in the Antiquities us now quoted, said, that this temple was like

to that at Jerusalem, and here that it was not like il, but like a tower,
sect. 3,

there is some reason to suspect the reading here, and that either the negative

particle is here to be blotted out, or the word entirely added.

