C. II.] EXHORTS THE JEWS. 249

he might not sec the house of God set on fire; on which ac­

count he is celebrated among all the Jews in their sacred me­

morials, and his memory is become immortal, and will be

conveyed fresh down to our posterity through all ages. This

John is an excellent example in such a time of danger; and I

dare venture to promise that the Romans shall still forgivo

thee. And take notice, that I, who make this exhortation to

thee, am one of thine own nation ; I, who am a Jew, do make

this promise to thee. And it will become thee to consider

who I am that give thee this counsel, and whence I am de­

rived : for while I am alive I shall never be in such slavery

as to forego my own kindred, or forget the laws of our fore­

fathers. Thou hast indignation at me again, and makest a

clamor at me, and reproachest me ; indeed, I cannot deny but

I am worthy of worse treatment than all this amounts to, be­

cause, in opposition to fate, I make this kind invitation to

thee, and endeavor to force deliverance upon those whom God

hath condemned. And who is there that does not know what

the writings of the ancient prophets contain in them ? and

particularly that oracle' which is just now going to be fulfilled

upon this miserable city ? For they foretold that this city

should be then taken, when somebody shall begin the slaughter

of his own countrymen. And arc not both the city and the

entire temple now full of the dead bodies of your countrymen?

It is God," therefore, it is God himself, who is bringing on

this fire to purge that city and temple by means of the Ro­

mans, and is going to pluck up this city, which is full of your

pollutions."

2. As Josephus spake these words, with groans and tears

in his eyes, his voice was intercepted by sobs. However, the

Romans could not but pity the affliction he was under, and

wonder at his conduct. But for John and those that were

1 Of this oracle, see the note on B. iv. ch. vi. sect. 3.

' Josephus, both hero and in many places elsewhere, speaks so, that it is

most evident ho was fully satisfied that God was on the Romans' side, and

made use of them now for the destruction of that wicked nation of the Jews,

which was, for certain, the true state of this matter, as the prophet Daniel

first and our Savior himself afterwards, had clearly foretold. See Lit. Ac-

SompL of I'roph p. 64, &c.

