C. VIII.] THE SECOND WALL. 201

people, he had them of a long time ready to comply with his

proposals; but as to the fighting-men, this humanity of his

seemed a mark of his weakness, and they imagined that he

made these proposals because he was not able to take the rest

of the city. They also threatened death to the people, if they

should any one of them say a word about a surrender. They,

moreover, cut the throats of such as talked of a peace, and

then attacked those Romans that were come within the wall.

Some of them they met in the narrow streets, and some they

fought against from their houses, when they made a sudden

sally out at the upper gates, and assaulted such Romans as

were beyond the wall, till those that guarded the wall were so

affrighted that they leaped down from their towers, and re­

tired to their several camps: upon which a great noise was

made by the Romans that were within, because they were en­

compassed round on every side by their enemies, as also by

them that were without, because they were in fear for thoso

that were left in the city. Thus did the Jews grow more nu­

merous perpetually, and had great advantages over the Ro­

mans by their full knowledge of those narrow lanes; and they

wounded a great many of them, and fell upon them, and drove

them out of the city. Now these Romans were at present

forced to make the best resistance they could, for they were

not able, in great numbers, to get out at the breach in tho

wall, it was so narrow. It is also probable that all those that

were gotten within had been cut to pieces, if Titus had not

sent them succors, for he ordered the archers to stand at the

upper ends of these narrower lanes, and ho stood himself

where was the greatest multitude of his enemies, and with his

darts he put a stop to them, as with him did Domitius Sabinus

also, a valiant man, and one that in this battle appeared so

to be. Thus did Caesar continue to shoot darts at the Jews

continually, and to hinder them from coming upon his men,

and this until all his soldiers had retreated out of the city.

2. And thus were the Romans driven out, after they had

possessed themselves of the second wall: whereupon the fight­

ing-men that were in the city wore lifted up in their minds,

and wero elevated upon this their good success, and began to

