16 THE ROMAN ARMIES [B. III.

2. But as to Titus, he sailed over from Achaia to Alexan­

dria, and that sooner than the winter season did usually permit;

so he took with him those forces he was sent for, and march­

ing with great expedition, he came suddenly to Ptolemais, and

there finding his father, together with the two legions, the fifth

and the tenth, which were the most eminent legions of all, he

joined them to that fifteenth legion which was with his father:

eighteen cohorts followed these legions: there came also five

cohorts from Caesarea, with one troop of horsemen, and five

other troops of horsemen from Syria. Now these ten cohorts

had severally a thousand footmen, but the other thirteen co­

horts had no more than six hundred footmen a-piece, with a

hundred and twenty horsemen. There were also a consider­

able number of auxiliaries got together, that came from the

kings Antiochus and Agrippa, and Sohemus, each of them

contributing one thousand footmen that were archers, and a

thousand horsemen. Malehus also, the king of Arabia, sent

a thousand horsemen, besides five thousand footmen, the

greatest part of which were archers : so that the whole army,

including the auxiliaries sent by the kings, as well horsemen

as footmen, when all were united together, amounted to sixty

thousand, besides the servants, who, as they followed in vast

numbers, so because they had been trained up in war with the

rest, ought not to be distinguished from the fighting men ; for

as they were in their masters' service in times of peace, so

did they undergo the like dangers with them in times of war,

insomuch that they were inferior to none cither in skill or in

strength, only they were subject to their masters.

CHAPTER V.

A DESCRIPTION OF THE ROMAN AKMIES AND ROMAN CAMPS;

AND OF OTIIER PARTICULARS FOR WHICH THE ROMANS ARE

COMMENDED.

§ 1. Now here one cannot but admire at the precaution

of the Romans, in providing themselves of such household

servants as might not only serve at other times for the common

