DISSERTATION II. 495

of God,1 who are ever found to have had an entire certainty

of those their revelations: and what evidently shows they were

not deceived is this, that the events and consequences of things

afterward always corresponded, and secured them of the

truth of such divine revelations. Thus, the first miraculous

voice from heaven,2 calling to Abraham not to execute this

command, and the performance of these eminent promises

made by the second voice,3 on account of his obedience to

that command, are demonstrations that Abraham's commission

for what he did was truly divine, and are an entire justifica­

tion of his conduct in this matter. The words of the first

voice from heaven will come hereafter to be set down in a

fitter place, but the glorious promises made to Abraham's

obedience by the second voice must here be produced from

verses 15, 16, 17, 18. "And the angel of the Lord called

unto Abraham out of heaven the second time, and said, By

myself have I sworn, saith the Lord, for because thou hast

done this thing, and hast not withheld thy son, thine only

son, from me, that in blessing I will bless thee, and in multi­

plying I will multiply thy seed as the stars of heaven, and as

the sand which is upon the sea-shore; and thy seed shall

possess the gate of his enemies: and in thy seed shall all the

nations of the earth be blessed, because thou hast obeyed my

voice." Every one of which promises have been eminently

fulfilled ; and, what is chiefly remarkable, the last and prin­

cipal of them, that in Abraham's seed all the nations of the

earth should be blessed, was never promised till this time. It

had been twice promised him, chap. xii. vi. 3, and xviii. 18,

that in himself should all the families of the earth be blessed;

but that this blessing was to belong to future times, and to

be bestowed by the means of one of his late posterity, the

Messias, that great seed and son of Abraham only, was never

revealed before, but, on such an amazing instance of his faith

and obedience as was this his readiness to offer up his only

begotten son Isaac was now first promised, and has been long

ago performed, in the birth of Jesus of Nazareth, the son of

' Isniah, xli. 8. » Gen. xxii. 11, 12. » Gen. xxii. 17, 18.

