220 EOMAN BANKS RAISED [B. V.

galled : for they had so great a regard to the promises that

had been made of their courage, that they would needs per­

severe in their fighting, and at length many of them retired,

but not till they were wounded; and then they perceived that

true Macedonians, if they were to be conquerors, must have

Alexander's good fortune also.

4. Now as the Romans began to raise their banks on the

twelfth day of the month Artemisius [Jyar,] so had they

much ado to finish them by the twenty-ninth day of the same

month, after they had labored hard for seventeen days con­

tinually. For there were now four great banks raised, one

of which was at the tower Antonia: this was raised by the

fifth legion over against the middle of that pool which was

called Struthius. Another was cast up by the twelfth legion,

at the distance of about twenty cubits from tho other. But

the labors of the tenth legion, which lay a great way off

these, were on the north quarter, and at the pool called

Amygdalon ; as was that of the fifteenth legion about thirty

cubits from it, and at the high-priest's monument. And now,

when the engines were brought, John had from within under­

mined the space that was over against the tower of Antonia,

as far as the banks themselves, and had supported the ground

over the mine with beams laid across one another, whereby

the Roman works stood upon an uncertain foundation. Then

did he order such materials to be brought in as were daubed

over with pitch and bitumen, and set them on fire: and as

the cross-beams that supported the banks were burning, the

ditch yielded on the sudden, and the banks were shaken

down, and fell into the diteh with a prodigious noise. Now,

at the first there arose a very thick smoke and dust, as the

fire was choked with the fall of the bank; but as the suffo­

cated materials were now gradually consumed, a plain flame

brake out, on which sudden appearance of the flame a con­

sternation fell upon the Romans, and the shrewdness of the

contrivance discouraged them: and, indeed, this accident

coming upon them at the time when they thought they had

already gained their point, cooled their hopes for the timo

to come. They also thought it would be to no purpose to

