C. II.] SURRENDER OF GISCHALA. 85

no Roman guard about the city, ho seized the opportunity

directly, and taking with him not only the armed men that

were about him, but a considerable number of those that had

little to do, together with their families, he fled to Jerusalem.

And, indeed, though the man was making haste to get away,

and was tormented with fears of being a captive or of losing

his life, yet did he prevail with himself to take out of the

city along with him a multitude of women and children, as

far as twenty furlongs; but there he left them as he proceeded

farther on his journey, where those that were left behind

made sad lamentations; for the farther every one of them

was come from his own people, the nearer they thought them­

selves to be to their enemies. They also affrighted them­

selves with this thought, that those who would carry them

into captivity were just at hand, and still turned themselves

back at the mere noise they made themselves in this their

hasty flight, as if those from whom they fled were just upon

them. Many also of them missed their ways, and the earnest­

ness of such as aimed to outgo the rest threw down many of

them. And, indeed, there was a miserable destruction made

of the women and children; while some of them took the

courage to call their husbands and kinsmen back, and to be­

seech them, with the bitterest lamentations, to stay for them;

but John's exhortation, who cried out to them to save them­

selves and fly away, prevailed. He said also, that if the

Romans should seize upon those whom they left behind, they

would be revenged on them for it. So this multitude that

ran thus away was dispersed abroad, according as each of

them was able to run one faster or slower than another.

5. Now on the next day Titus came to the wall to make

the agreement, whereupon the people opened their gates to

him, and came out to him, with their children and wives, and

made acclamations of joy to him, as to one that had been their

benefactor, and had delivered the city out of custody; they

also informed him of John's flight, and besought him to spare

them, and to come in, and bring the rest of those that were

for innovations to punishment. But Titus, not so much re­

garding the supplications of the people, sent part of his horse-

IV.—8

