250 DESERTIONS FROM [b. VI.

with him, they were but the more exasperated against the

Romans on this account, and were desirous to get Josephus

also into their power : yet did that discourse influence a great

many of the better sort; and truly some of them were so

afraid of the guards set by the seditious, that they tarried

where they were, but still were satisfied that both they and

the city were doomed to destruction. Some also there were,

who, watching a proper opportunity when they might quietly

get away, fled to the Romans, of whom were the high-priests

Joseph and Jesus, and of the sons of high-priests three, whose

father was Ishmael, who was beheaded in Cyrene, and four

sons of Matthias, as also one son of the other Matthias, who

ran away after' his father's death, and whose father was

slain by Simon, the son of Gioras, with three of his sons,

as I have already related; many also of the other nobility

went over to the Romans, together with the high-priests.

Now Caesar not only received these men very kindly in other

respects, but, knowing they would not willingly live after the

customs of other nations, he sent them to Gophna, and de­

sired them to remain there for the present, and told them,

that when he was gotten clear of this war, he would restore

each of them to their possessions again: so they cheerfully

retired to that small city which was allotted them, without

fear of any danger. But as they did not appear, the seditious

gave out again that these deserters were slain by the Romans,

which was done in order to deter the rest from running away,

by fear of the like treatment. This trick of theirs succeeded

now for a while, as did the like trick before; for the rest

were hereby deterred from deserting, by fear of the like

treatment.

3. However, wheu Titus had recalled those men from

Gophna, he gave orders that they should go round the wall

1 Josephus had before told us, B. v. ch. xiii. sect. I, that this fourth son

of Matthias ran away to the Romans before his father's and brethren-s

slaughter, and not after it, as here. The former account is, in all
probability,

the truest; for had not that fourth eon escaped before the others were caught

and put to death, he had been caught and put to death with them. This

last account, therefore looks like an instance of a small inadvertence of Jo­

sephus in the place before us.

