184 THE TEMPLE. [B. V.

5. When any persons entered into the temple, its floor re足

ceived them. This part of the temple, therefore, was in height

sixty cubits, and its length the same, whereas its breadth was

but twenty cubits: but still that sixty cubits in length was

divided again, and the first part of it was cut off at forty

cubits, and had in it three things that were very wonderful

and famous among all mankind ; the candlestick, the table [of

show-bread,] and the altar of incense. Now, the seven lamps

signified the seven planets, for so many there were springing

out of the candlestick. Now, the twelve loaves that were upon

the table signified the circle of the zodiac and the year; but

the altar of incense, by its thirteen kinds of sweet-smelling

spices, with which the sea replenished it, signified that God

is the possessor of all things that are both in the uninhabitable

and habitable parts of the earth, and that they are all to be

dedicated to his use. But the inmost part of the temple of all

was of twenty cubits. This was also separated from the outer

part by a veil. In this there was nothing at all. It was in足

accessible and inviolable, and not to be seen by any, and was

called the Holy of Holies. Now, about the sides of the lower

part of the temple there were little houses, with passages out

of one into another: there were a great many of them, and

they were of three stories high ; there were also entrances on

each side into them from the gate of the temple. But the

superior part of the temple had no such little houses any far足

ther, because the temple was there narrower, and forty cubits

higher, and of a smaller body than the lower parts of it. Thus

we collect that the whole height, including the sixty c.ubits

. from the floor, amounted to a hundred cubits.

6. Now, the outward face of the temple, in its front,

wanted nothing that was likely to surprise either men's

minds or their eyes; for it was covered all over with plates

of gold of great weight, and, at the first rising of the sun, re足

flected back a very fiery splendor, and made those who

forced themselves to look upon it to turn their eyes away,

just as they would have done at the sun's own rays. But

this temple appeared to strangers, when they were coming

to it at a distance, like a mountain covered with snow; for

