C. IV.] REVOLT OF THE GERMANS. 307

vailed with them so to do; for when they saw the Roman

government in a great internal disorder, by the continual

changes of its rulers, and understood that every part of the

habitable earth under them was in an unsettled and tottering

condition, they thought this was the best opportunity that

could afford itself for themselves to make a sedition, when

the state of the Romans was so ill. Classicus' also and

Vitellius,2 two of their commanders, puffed them up with such

hopes. These had, for a long time, been openly desirous of

such an innovation, and were induced by the present oppor足

tunity to venture upon the declaration of their sentiments;

the multitude was also ready, and when these men told them

of what they intended to attempt, that news was gladly re足

ceived by them. So when a great part of the Germans had

agreed to rebel, and the rest were no better disposed, Ves足

pasian, as guided by divine Providence, sent letters to Petilius

Cerealis, who had formerly had the command of Germany,

whereby he declared him to have the dignity of consul, and

commanded him to take upon him the government of Britain;

so he went whither he was ordered to go, and when he was

informed of the revolt of the Germans, he fell upon them as

soon as they were gotten together, and put his army in battle

array, and slew a great multitude of them in the fight, and

forced them to leave off their madness, and to grow wiser;

nay, had he not fallen thus suddenly upon them on the place,

it had not been long ere they would, however, have been

1 This Classicus, and Civilis, and Cerealis, are names well-known in

Tacitus; the two former as moving sedition against the Romans, and the

last as sent to repress them by Vespasian, just as they are here described

in Joscphus, which is the case also of Fonteius Agrippa, and Rubrius

Callus, in sect. 3. But as to the very favorable account presently given of

Domitian, particularly as to his designs in this his Gallic and German ex足

pedition, it is not a little contrary to that in Suetonius, Vesp. sect. 7. Nor

are the reasons unobvious that might occasion this great diversity: Domitian

was one of Josephus's patrons, and when he published these books of the

Jewish war, was very young, and had hardly begun those wicked practices

which rendered him so infamous afterward; while Suetonius seems to have

been too young, and too low in life, to receive any remarkable favors from

him, as Domitian was certainly very lewd and cruel, and generally hated,

when Suetonius wrote about him.

* Civilis. Tacit

