0. IV.] THE TEMPLE GATES. 2G7

house, and fight us thence, yet ought we not to revenge our足

selves on things that are inanimate instead of the men them足

selves ; and that he was not in any case for burning down so

vast a work as that was, because this would be a mischief to

the Romans themselves, as it would be an ornament to their

government while it continued." So Fronto, and Alexander,

and Cerealis, grew bold upon that declaration, and agreed to

the opinion of Titus. Then was this assembly dissolved,

when Titus had given order to the commanders that the rest

of their forces should lie still, but that they should make use

of such as were most courageous in this attack. So he com足

manded that the chosen men that were taken out of the

cohorts should make their way through the ruins, and quench

the fire.

4. Now, it is true, that on this day the Jews were so weary,

and under such consternation, that they refrained from any

attacks. But on the next day they gathered their whole force

together, and ran upon those that guarded the outward court

of the temple very boldly through the east gate, and this

about the second hour of the day. These guards received

that their attack with great bravery, and by covering them足

selves with their shields before, as if it were with a wall, they

drew their squadrons close together; yet was it evident that

they could not abide there very long, but would be ovcrborno

by the multitude of those that sallied out upon them, and by

the heat of their passion. However, Caesar seeing, from the

tower of Antonia, that this squadron was likely to give way,

he sent some chosen horsemen to support them. Hereupon

the Jews found themselves not able to sustain their onset,

and, upon the slaughter of those in the forefront, many of

the rest were put to flight. But as the Romans were going

off, the Jews turned upon them, and fought them; and as

those Romans came back upon them, they retreated again,

until about the fifth hour of the day they were ovcrborne, and

shut themselves up in the inner [court of the] temple.

5. So Titus retired into the tower of Antonia, and resolved

to storm the temple the next day, early in the morning, with

his whole army, and to encamp round about the holy house.

