C. VIII.] VESPASIAN. 55

case, and Low it becomes generals to die. Dost thou send

me to Nero ? For why ? Are Nero's successors till they

come to thee still alive ? Thou, O Vespasian, art Caesar and

emperor, thou and this thy son. Bind me now still faster,

and keep me for thyself; for thou, O Caesar, art not only

lord over me, but over the land, and the sea, and all man­

kind ; and certainly I deserve to be kept in closer custody

than I now am in, in order to be punished, if I rashly affirm

any thing of God." When he had said this, Vespasian at

present did not believe him, but supposed that Josephus said

this, as a cunning trick, in order to his own preservation;

but in a little time he was convinced, and believed what he

said to be true, God himself erecting his expectations, so as

to think of obtaining the empire, and by other signs fore­

showing his advancement. He also found Josephus to have

spoken truth on other occasions : for one of those friends that

were present at that secret conference, said to Josephus: "I

cannot but wonder how thou couldest not foretell to the peo­

ple of Jotapata that they should be taken, nor couldest fore­

tell this captivity which hath happened to thyself, unless what

thou now sayest be a vain thing, in order to avoid the rage

that is risen against thyself." To which Josephus replied:

" I did foretell to the people of Jotapata, that they would be

taken on the forty-seventh day, and that I should be caught

alive by the Romans." Now when Vespasian had inquired

of the captives privately about these predictions, he found

them to be true, and then he began to believe those that con­

cerned himself. Yet did ho not set Josephus at liberty from

his bonds, but bestowed on him suits of clothes, and other

precious gifts ; he treated him also in a very obliging manner,

and continued so to do, Titus still joining his interest in the

honors that were done him.

selves, rather than go into slavery under heathens. I doubt this would have

been no better than zelf-murder; and I believe it was rather some vain doc­

trine, or interpretation of the rigid Pharisees, or Essencs, or Hcrodiane,

than a just consequence from any law of God delivered by Moses.

