60 VESPASIAN. [B. III.

pedition against these cities, and that for the sake of Agrippa,

and in order to bring his cities to reason. So ho sent away

his son Titus to [the other] Caesarea, that he might bring the

army that lay there to Scythopolis, which is the largest city

of Decapolis, and in the neighborhood of Tiberias, whither he

came, and where he waited for his son. He then came with

three legions, and pitehed his camp thirty furlongs off Tibe­

rias, at a certain station easily seen by the innovators; it is

named Sennabris. He also sent Valerian, a decurion, with

fifty horsemen, to speak peaceably to those that were in the

city, and to exhort them to give him assurances of their

fidelity; for he had heard that the people were desirous of

peace, but were obliged by some of the seditious part to join

with them, and so were forced to fight for them. When Vale­

rian had marched up to the place, and was near the wall, he

alighted off his horse, and made those that were with him do

the same, that they might not be thought to come to skirmish

with them ; but before they could come to discourse one with

another, the most potent men among the seditious made a

sally upon them armed; their leader was one whose name

was Jesus, the son of Saphat, the principal head of a band

of robbers. Now Valerian, neither thinking it safe to fight

contrary to the commands of the general, though he were

secure of a victory, and knowing that it was a very hazardous

undertaking for a few to fight with many, for those that were

unprovided to fight those that were ready, and being on other

accounts surprised at this unexpected onset of the Jews, he

ran away on foot, as did five of the rest in like manner, and

left their horses behind them; which horses Jesus led away

into the city, and rejoiced as if they had taken them in battle,

and not by treachery.

8. Now the seniors of the people, and such as wore of

principal authority among them, fearing what would be the

issue of this matter, fled to the camp of the Romans: they

then took their king along with them, and fell down before

Vespasian, to supplicate his favor, and besought him not to

overlook them, nor to impute the madness of a few to th*

whole city; to spare a people that have been ever civil and

