C. Vn.] THB ZEALOTS AT MASADA. 123

ancient kings, both as a repository for their effects in the

hazards of war, and for the preservations of their bodies at

the same time. It was called Masada. Those that were

called Sicarii had taken possession of it formerly; but at this

time they overran the neighboring countries, aiming only to

procure to themselves necessaries, for the fear they were then

in prevented their further ravages. But when once they were

informed that the Roman army lay still, and that the Jews

were divided between sedition and tyranny, they boldly

undertook greater matters; and at the feast of unleavened

bread, which the Jews celebrate in memory of their deliver­

ance from the Egyptian bondage, when they were sent back

into the country of their forefathers, they came down by

night, without being discovered by those that could have pre­

vented them, and overran a certain small city called Engaddi.

In which expedition they prevented those citizens that could

have stopped them, before they could arm themselves, and

fight them. They also dispersed them, and cast them out of

the city: as for such as could not run away, being women

and children, they slew of them above seven hundred. After­

ward, when they had carried every thing out of their houses,

and had seized upon all the fruits that were in a flourishing

condition, they brought them into Masada. And, indeed,

these men laid all the villages that were about the fortress

waste, and made the whole country desolate; while there

came to them every day from all parts not a few men, as

corrupt as themselves. At that time all the other regions

of Judea, that had hitherto been at rest, were in motion, by

means of the robbers. Now as it is in a human body, if the

principal part be inflamed, all the members are subject to

the same distemper, so by means of the sedition and disorder

that was in the metropolis had the wicked men that were in

the country opportunity to ravage the same. Accordingly,

when every one of them had plundered their own villages,

they then retired into the desert: yet were these men that

now got together, and joined in the conspiracy by parties, too

6mall for an army, and too many for a gang of thieves; and

