B.I.] AGAINST APION. 389

us Jews, though in way of derision at our simplicity, as he

supposes it to be ; for when he was discoursing of the affairs

of Stratonice, " how she came out of Macedonia into Syria,

and left her husband Demetrius, while yet Seleucus would

not marry her as she expected, but, during the time of his

raising an army at Babylon, stirred up a sedition about An-

tioch; and how, after that, the king came back, and upon

his taking of Antioch, she fled to Seleucia, and had it in her

power to sail away immediately, yet did she comply with a

dream which forbade her so to do, and so was caught and

put to death." When Agatharchides had premised this story,

and had jested upon Stratonice for her superstition, he gives

a like example of what was reported concerning us, and writes

thus : — " There are a people called Jews, and dwell in a city

the strongest of all other cities, which the inhabitants call

Jerusalem, and are accustomed to rest on every seventh

day;' on which times they make no use of their arms, nor

meddle with husbandry, nor take care of any affairs of life,

but spread out their hands in their holy places, and pray till

the evening. Now it came to pass that when Ptolemy, the

son of Lagus, came into this city with his army, that these

men, in observing this mad custom of theirs, instead of guard­

ing the city, suffered their country to submit itself to a better

lord ; and their law2 was openly proved to have commanded

a foolish practice. This accident taught all other men but

the Jews to disregard such dreams as these were, and not to

follow the like idle suggestions delivered as a law, when, in

such uncertainty of human reasonings, they are at a loss what

they should do." Now this our procedure seems a ridiculous

thing to Agatharchides, but will appear to such as consider

it without prejudice a great thing, and what deserved a great

many encomiums ; I mean, when certain men constantly pre­

1 A glorious testimony this of the observation of the Sabbath by the Jews.

See Antiq. B. xvi. ch. ii. sect. 4; ch. vi. sect. 2; the Life, sect. 54, and
War,

B. iv. ch. ix. 6ect. VI.

* Not their law, but the superstitious interpretation of their leaders, which  
neither the Maccabees nor our blessed Savior did ever approve of.

33*

