218 OBSTINACY OF THE SEDITIOUS. [B. V.

the wall of the city. This miserable procedure made Titus

greatly to pity them, while they caught every day five hun足

dred Jews; nay, some days they caught more: yet did it not

appear to be safe for him to let those that were taken by force

to go their way; and to set a guard over so many he saw

would be to make such as guarded them useless to him. The

main reason why he did not forbid that cruelty was this, that

he hoped the Jews might, perhaps, yield at that sight, out of

fear lest they might themselves afterwards be liable to the same

cruel treatment. So the soldiers, out of the wrath and hatred

they bore the Jews, nailed those they caught, one after one

way, and another after another, to the crosses, by way of jest,

when their multitude was so great that room was wanting for

the crosses, and crosses wanting for the bodies.

2. But so far were the seditious from repenting at this sad

sight, that on the contrary, they made the rest of the multi足

tude believe otherwise; for they brought the relations of those

that had deserted upon the wall, with such of the populace as

were very eager to go over upon the security offered them,

and showed them what miseries those underwent who fled to

the Romans : and told them that those who were caught were

supplicants to them, and not such as were taken prisoners.

This sight kept many of those within the city who were so

eager to desert, till the truth was known: yet did some of

them run away immediately as unto certain punishment, es足

teeming death from their enemies to be a quiet departure, if

compared with that by famine. So Titus commanded that

the hands of many of those that were caught should be cut

off, that they might not be thought deserters, and might be

credited on account of the calamity they were under, and sent

them in to John and Simon, with this exhortation, that " they

would now at length leave off [their madness,] and not force

him to destroy the city, whereby they would have those advan足

tages of repentance, even in their utmost distress, that they

would preserve their own lives, and so fine a city of their own,

and that temple which was their peculiar." He then went

round about the banks that were cast up, and hastened them,

in order to show that his words should in no long time bo

