C. VII.] VESPASIAN. 85

saw the ram always battering, that the stroke might be turned

aside, or that the place might feel less of the strokes by the

yielding nature of the chaff. This contrivance very much

delayed the attempts of the Romans, because, let them re­

move their engine to what part they pleased, those that were

above it removed their sacks, and placed them over against

the strokes it made, insomuch that the wall was no way hurt,

and this by diversion of the strokes, till the Romans made an

opposite contrivance of long poles, and by tying hooks at

their ends, cut off the sacks. Now when the battering-ram

thus recovered its force, and the wall, having been but newly

built, was giving way, Josephus and those about him had af­

terward immediate recourse to fire to defend themselves with­

al ; whereupon they took what materials soever they had that

were but dry, and made a sally three ways, and set fire to

the machines, and the hurdles, and the banks of the Romans

themselves; nor did the Romans well know how to come to

their assistance, being at once under a consternation at the

Jews' boldness, and being prevented by the flames from

coming to their assistance; for the materials being dry with

the bitumen and pitch that were among them, as was brim­

stone also, the fire caught hold of every thing immediately,

and what cost the Romans a great deal of pains was in one

hour consumed.

21. And here a certain Jew appeared worthy of our rela­

tion and commendation; he was the son of Sameas, and was

called Eleazar, and was born at Saab in Galilee. This man

took up a stone of vast bigness, and threw it down from the

wall upon the ram, and this with so great a force, that it

brake off the head of the engine. He also leaped down, and

took up the head of the ram from the midst of them, and

without any concern carried it to the top of the wall, and this

while he stood as a fit mark to be pelted by all his enemies.

Accordingly, he received the strokes upon his naked body,

and was wounded with five darts; nor did he mind any of

them while he went up to the top of the wall, where he stood

in the sight of them all, as an instance of the greatest bold­

ness ; after which he threw himself on a heap with his wounds

