DISSERTATION III. 529

by ramparts and ditches, since the situation of the place did

not admit of taking it by storm or surprise. He parted the

duty among the legions; and there were no farther engage­

ments, until whatever had been invented for the taking of

cities by the ancients, or by the ingenuity of the moderns,

was got ready.

ANNALS, book xv.

Nero, in order to stifle the rumor [as if he had himself

set Rome on fire,] ascribed it to those people who were hated

for their wicked practices, and called by the vulgar Chris­

tians ; these he punished exquisitely. The author of this

name was Christ, who, in the reign of Tiberius, was brought

to punishment by Pontius Pilate the procurator.1 For the

present this pernicious superstition was in part suppressed,

but it broke out again, not only over Judea, whence this mis­

chief first sprang, but in the city of Rome also, whither do

run from every quarter and make a noise, all the flagrant

and shameful enormities. At first, therefore, those were seized

who confessed, afterward a vast multitude were detected by

them, and were convicted, not so much as really guilty of

setting the city on fire, but as hating all mankind; nay, they

made a mock of them as they perished, and destroyed them

by putting them into the skins of wild beasts, and setting

dogs upon them to tear them to pieces. Some were nailed

to crosses, and others flamed to death: thoy were also used

in the night-time instead of torches, for illumination. Nero

had offered his own gardens for this spectacle. He also

gave them Circensian games, and dressed himself like a

driver of a chariot, sometimes appearing among the common

people, sometimes in the circle itself; whence a commisera­

tion arose, though the punishments were levelled at guilty

persons, and such as deserve to be made the most flagrant

examples, as if these people were destroyed, not for the

' This passage seems to have been directly taken from Josephus's famous

testimony concerning Christ and the Christians, Antiq. b. xviii. ch. iii.
sect.

3, of which Dissert. I. before.

IV. —45

