C. II.] TITUS AT JERUSALEM. 165

and very properly named Scopus [the prospect,] and was no

more than seven furlongs distant from it. And here it was

that Titus ordered a camp to be fortified for two legions that

were to be together ; but ordered another camp to be fortified,

at three furlongs farther distance behind them, for the fifth

legion; for he thought that, by marching in the night, they

might be tired, and might deserve to be covered from the

enemy, and with less fear might fortify themselves; and as

these were now beginning to build, the tenth legion, which

came through Jericho, was already come to the place, where

a certain party of armed men had formerly lain, to guard

that pass into the city, and had been taken before by Ves­

pasian. These legions had orders to encamp at the distance

of six furlongs from Jerusalem, at the mount called the Mount

of Olives,'' which lies over against the city on the east side,

and is parted from it by a deep valley interposed between

them, which is named Cedron.

4. Now, when hitherto the several parties in the city had

been dashing one against another perpetually, this foreign

war, now suddenly come upon them after a violent manner,

put the first step to their contentions one against another:

and as the seditious now saw with astonishment the Romans

pitching three several camps, they began to think of an awk­

ward sort of concord, and said one to another, — "What do

we here, and what do we mean when we suffer three fortified

walls to be built to coop us in, that we shall not bo able to

breathe freely ? while the enemy is securely building a kind

of city in opposition to us, and while we sit still within our

own walls, and become spectators only of what they are doing,

with our hands idle, and our armor laid by, as if they were

about somewhat that was for our own good and advantage.

We are, it seems (so did they cry out,) only courageous

against ourselves, while the Romans are likely to gain the

city without bloodshed by our sedition." Thus did they en­

1 This situation of the Mount of Olives on the east of Jerusalem, at about.

the distance of five or six furlongs, with the valley of Cedron interposed

between that mountain and the city, are things well known, both in the Old

and New Testament, in Josophus elsewhere, and in all the descriptions of

Palestine.

