B. II.] AGAINST A PI ON. 431

are better than other men, both for moderation and such

virtue as is agreeable to nature. Indeed, their endeavor was

to have every thing they ordained believed to be very ancient,

tha.t they might not be thought to imitate others, but might

appear to have delivered a regular way of living to others

after them. Since, then, this is the case, the excellency of

a legislator is seen in providing for the people's living after

the best manner, and in prevailing with those that are to use

the laws he ordains for them to have a good opinion of them,

and in obliging the multitude to persevere in them, and to

make no changes in them, neither in prosperity nor adversity.

Now, I venture to say, that our legislator is the most ancient

of all the legislators whom we have any where heard of; for

as for the Lycurguses, and Solons, and Zaleucus Locrensis,

and all those legislators which arc so admired by the Greeks,

they seem to be of yesterday, if compared with our legislator,

insomuch as the very name of a law was not so much known

as in old times among the Grecians. Homer is a witness to

the truth of this observation, who never uses that term in all

his poems; for, indeed, there was then no such thing among

them, but the multitude was governed by wise maxims, and

by the injunctions of their king. It was also a long time'

that they continued in the use of these unwritten customs,

although they were always changing them upon several occa­

sions. But for our legislator, who was of so much greater

antiquity than the rest (as even those that speak against us

upon all occasions do always confess,) he exhibited himself

to the people as their.best governor and counsellor, and in­

cluded in his legislation the entire conduct of their lives, and

prevailed with them to receive it, and brought it so to pass,

that those that were made acquainted with his laws did most

carefully observe them.

17. But let us consider his first and greatest work: for

when it was resolved on by our forefathers to leave Egypt,

and return to their own country, this Moses took the many

ten thousands that were of the people, and saved them out

1 Viz. After the greatest part of the world had left off their obedience to

God, their original legislator. Seo Scripture Polities, page 6, 7.

