C. II.] TOWER OF ANTONIA. 247

were Malachias, and Judas the son of Merto, and James the

son of Sosas, the commander of the Idumeans; and of the

zealots two brethren, Simon and Judas, the sons of Jairus.

CHAPTER II.

DOW TITUS GAVE ORDERS TO DEMOLISH THE TOWER OF AN­

TONIA, AND THEN PERSUADED JOSEPHUS TO EXHORT THE

JEWS AGAIN [TO A SURRENDER.]

§ 1. And now Titus gave order to his soldiers that were

with him to dig up the foundations of the tower of Antonia,

and make him a ready passage for his army to come up;

whilst he himself had Josephus brought to him (for he had

been informed that on that very day, which was the seven­

teenth1 day of Panemus [Tamuz,] the sacrifice called the

daily sacrifice had failed, and had not been offered to God,

for want of men to offer it, and that the people were griev­

ously troubled at it,) and commanded him to say the same

things to John that he had said before, that, " if he had any

malicious inclination for fighting, he might come out with as

many of his men as he pleased, in order to fight without the

danger of destroying either his city or temple; but that he

desired he would not defile the temple, nor thereby offend

against God: that he might, if he pleased, offer the sacrifices

which wore now discontinued, by any of the Jews whom ho

should pitch upon. Upon this Josephus stood in such a place

where he might be heard, not by John only, but by many

more, and then declared to them what Caesar had given him

1 This was a remarkable day indeed, the 17th of Panemus [Tamuz,] A. D.

70, when, according to Daniel's prediction, 006 years before, the Romans,

ia half a week, caused the sacrifice and oblation to cease, Dan. ix. 27. For
from

the month of February, A. D. 66, about which time Vespasian entered on

this war, to this very time, was just three years and a half. See Bp. Lloyd's

Tables of Chronology, published by Mr. Marshall, on this year. Nor is it to

be omitted what very nearly confirms this duration of the war, that four

years before the war began was somewhat above seven years and five months

before the destruction of Jerusalem, ch. v. sect. 3.

