C. VIII.] SIEGE OF THE UPPER CITY. 287

by himself, that so they might bring out their families with

them, yet did he receive such as these also. However, he set

over them such as were to distinguish some from others, in

order to see if any of them deserved to be punished. And,

indeed, the number of those that were sold was immense;

but of the populace above forty thousand were saved, whom

Caesar let go whither every one of them pleased.

3. But now at this time it was that one of the priests, the

son of Thebuthus, whose name was Jesus, upon his having

security given him by the oath of Caesar, that he should be

preserved, upon condition that he should deliver to him cer­

tain of the precious things that had been reposited in the

temple,1 came out of it, and delivered him from the wall of

the holy house two candlesticks, like to those that lay in the

holy house, with tables, and cisterns, and vials, all made of

solid gold, and very heavy. He also delivered to him the

veils and the garments, with the precious stones, and a great

number of other precious vessels that belonged to their sacred

worship. The treasurer of the temple also, whose name was

Phineas, was seized on, and showed Titus the coats and gir­

dles of the priests, with a great quantity of purple and scar­

let, which were there reposited for the uses of the veil, as

also a great deal of cinnamon and cassia,2 with a large quan­

tity of other sweet spices, which used to be mixed together,

and offered as incense to God every day. A great many

other treasures were also delivered to him, with sacred orna­

ments of the temple not a few; which things thus delivered

to Titus obtained of him for this man the same pardon that

he had allowed to such as deserted of their own accord.

4. And now were the banks finished on the seventh day of

the month Gorpieus [Elul,] in eighteen days' time, when the

Romans brought their machines against the wall. But for

1 What became of these spoils of tho temple that escaped the fire, see Jo-

sephus himself hereafter, B. vii. ch. v. sect. 5, and Roland de Spoliis
Temj>li,

p. 129-138.

3 These various sorts of spices, even, moro than those four which Moses

prescribed, Exod. xxxi. 34, we see were used in the public worship under

Herod's temple, particularly cinnamon and cassia; which Reland takes par­

ticular notice of, as agreeing with the later testimony of the Talmudists.

