C.X.] VESPASIAN, EMPEROR. 115

companies, anil consulted openly about changing the public

affairs, and out of their indignation eried out how " at Rome

there are soldiers that live delicately; and when they have

not ventured so much as to hear the fame of war, they ordain

whom they please for our governors, and in hopes of gain

make them emperors ; while you have gone through so many

labors, and are grown into years under your helmets, give

leave to others to use such a power, when yet you have among

yourselves one more worthy to rule than any whom they have

set up. Now what juster opportunity shall they ever have of

requiting their generals, if they do not make use of this that

is now before them ? while there are so much juster reasons

for Vespasian's being emperor than for Vitellius, as they are

themselves more deserving than those that made the other

emperors; for that they have undergone as great wars as

have the troops that come from Germany; nor are they infe­

rior in war to those that have brought that tyrant to Rome,

nor have they undergono smaller labors than they ; for that

neitner will the Roman senate nor people bear such a lasci­

vious emperor as Vitellius, if he be compared with their chaste

Vespasian ; nor will they endure a most barbarous tyrant in­

stead of a good governor, nor choose one that hath no child1

to preside over them, instead of him that is a father, because

the advancement of men's own children to dignities is cer­

tainly the greatest security kings can have for themselves.

Whether, therefore, we estimate the capacity of governing

from the skill of a person in years, we ought to have Vespa­

sian, or whether, from the strength of a young man, we ought

to have Titus; for by this means we shall have the advantage

of both their ages, for that they will afford strength to those

that shall be made emperors, they having already three le­

gions, besides other auxiliaries from the neighboring kings,

1 The Roman authors that now remain say Vitellius hail children, whereas

Josephus introduces here the Roman soldiers in Judea, saying he had none.

Which of these assertions was the truth I know not. Spanheim thinks h«

hath given a peculiar rcason for calling Vitellius childless, though he really

has children. Diss, de Num. pages 649, 650, to which it appears very diffi­

cult to give our assont.

IV.—13

