376 FLAVIUSJOSEPHCS [B. I.

lus, the priest of Astarte, who reigned thirty-two years, and

lived sixty-eight years; he was succeeded by his son Bade-

zorus, who lived forty-five years, and reigned six years: he

was succeeded by Matgenus his son; he lived thirty-two years,

and reigned nine years : Pygmalion succeeded him ; he lived

fifty-six years, and reigned forty-seven years. Now, in tho

seventh year of his reign, his sister fled away from him, and

built the city of Carthage in Libya." So the whole time from

the reign of Hirom till the building of Carthage amounts to

the sum of one hundred fifty-five years and eight months.

Since, then, the temple was built at Jerusalem in the twelfth

year of the reign of Hirom, there were from the building of

the temple until the building of Carthage one hundred forty-

three years and eight months. Wherefore, what occasion is

there for alleging any more testimonies out of the Phoenician

histories [on the behalf of our nation,] since what I have said

is so thoroughly confirmed already ? And to be sure our an­

cestors came into this country long before the building of the

temple; for it was not till we had gotten possession of the

whole land by war that wo built our temple. And this is the

point that I have clearly proved out of our sacred writings in

my Antiquiiies.

19. I will now relate what hath been written concerning us

in the Chaldean histories, which records have a great agree­

ment with our books in other things also. Berosus shall be

witness to what I say; he was by birth a Chaldean, well

known by the learned on account of his publication of tho

Chaldean books of astronomy and philosophy among the

Greeks. This Berosus, therefore, following the most ancient

records of that nation, gives us a history of the deluge of wa­

ters that then happened, and of the destruction of mankind

thereby, and agrees with Moses's narration thereof. He also

gives us an account of that ark wherein Noah, the origin of

our race, was preserved, when it was brought to the highest

part of the Armenian mountains: after which he gives us a

catalogue of the posterity of Noah, and adds the years of their

chronology, and at length comes down to Nebolassar, who was

king of Babylon and of the Chaldeans. And when he was

