292 NUMBER OF CAPTIVES. [B. VI.

during this whole war, was collected to he ninety-seven

thousand; as was the number of those that perished during

the whole siege eleven hundred thousand, the greater part

of whom were, indeed, of the same nation [with the citizens

of Jerusalem,] but not belonging to the city itself; for they

were come up from all the country to the feast of unleavened

bread, and were on a sudden shut up by an army, which at

the very first occasioned so great a straitness among them,

that there came a pestilential destruction upon them, and

soon afterward such a famine, as destroyed them more

suddenly. And that this city could contain so many people

in it, is manifest by that number of them which was taken

under Cestius, who being desirous of informing Nero of the

flower of the city, who otherwise was disposed to contemn

that nation, entreated the high-priests, if the thing were

possible, to take the number of their whole multitude. So

these high-priests, upon the coming of that feast which is

called the Passover, when they slay their sacrifices, from the

ninth hour till the eleventh, but so that a company not less

than ten' belong to every sacrifice (for it is not lawful for

them to feast singly by themselves;) and many of us are

twenty in a company. Now, the number of sacrifices was

justice were just then come up out of the other countries of Galilee, Sa­

maria, Judca, Pcrea, and other remoter regions, to the Passover, in vast

numbers, and therein cooped up, as in a prison, by the Koman army, as

Josephus himself well observes in this and the next section, and as is ex­

actly related elsewhere, B. v. ch. iii. sect. 1, and ch. xiii. sect. 7.

1 This number of a company for one paschal lamb, between ten and

twenty, agrees exactly with the number thirteen, at our Savior's last pass-

over. As to the whole number of the Jews that used to come up to the

Passover, and cat of it at Jerusalem, see the noto on B. ii. ch. xiv. sect. 3.

This number ought to be here, indeed, just ten times the number of the

lambs, or just 2,5U5,000 by Josephus's own reasoning; whereas it is in his

present copies no less than 2,700,000, which last number is, however, nearest

the other number in the place now cited, which is 3,000,000. But what is

here chiefly remarkable is this, that no foreign nation ever came thus to

destroy the Jews at any of their solemn festivals, from the days of Mosea

till this time, but came now upon their apostasy from God, and from

obedience to him. Nor is it possible, in the nature of things, that, in any

other nation, such vast numbers should be gotten together, and perish in

the siege of any one city whatsoever, as now happened in Jerusalem.

