460 FLAVIUSJOSEPHUS [B. H.

tutions, yet do we willingly admit of those that desire to par­

take of ours, which, I think, I may reckon to be a plain

indication of our humanity, and at the same time of our mag­

nanimity also.

38. But I shall say no more of the Lacedemonians. As

for the Athenians, who glory in having made their city to be

common to all men, what their behavior was Apollonius did

not know, while they punished those that did but speak one

word contrary to their laws about the gods without any mercy:

for on what other account was it that Socrates was put to

death by them ? For certainly he neither betrayed their city

to its enemies, nor was he guilty of any sacrilege with regard

to any of their temples ; but it was on this account that he

swore certain new oaths,1 and that he affirmed either in earnest,

or, as some say, only in jest, that a certain demon used to

make signs to him [what he should not do.] For these rea­

sons he was condemned to drink poison, and kill himself. His

accuser also complained that he corrupted the young men, by

inducing them to despise the political settlement and laws of

their city ; and thus was Socrates, the citizen of Athens, pun­

ished. There was also Anaxagoras, who, although he was of

Clazomeno?, was within a few suffrages of being condemned to

die, because he said the sun, which the Athenians thought to

be a god, was a ball of fire. They also made this public pro­

clamation, that they would give a talent to any one who would

kill Diagorus of Melos, because it was reported of him that he

laughed at their mysteries. Protagorus also, who was thought

to have written somewhat that was not owned for truth by the

Athenians about the gods, had been seized upon and put to

death, if he had not fled immediately away. Nor need wc at

all wonder that they thus treated such considerable men, when

they did not spare even women also; for they very lately

slew a certain priestess because she was accused by somebody

that she initiated people into the worship of strange gods, it

1 St

-,j what these uuvel oaths were in Dr. Hudson's note, viz.: To swear by  
an oak, by a goat, and by a dog, as also by a gander, as says Philostratui and

others. This swcaring strangu oaths w:is also forbidden by the Tyrians, B. i

sect. 22, ns Spanheim hero notes.

