B. I.] AGAINST APIOK. - 365

escaped my knowledge; for what happened in the Roman

camp I saw and wrote down carefully; and what information

the deserters brought [out of the city,] I was the only man

that understood them. Afterward I got leisure at Rome;

and when all my materials were prepared for that work, I

made use of some persons to assist me in learning the Greek

tongue, and by these means I composed the history of those

transactions. And I was so well assured of the truth of what

I related, that I first of all appealed to those that had the

supreme command in that war, Vespasian and Titus, as wit­

nesses for me; for to them I presented those books first of

all, and after them to many of the Romans who had been in

the war. I also sold them to many of our own men who un­

derstood the Greek philosophy; among whom were Julius

Archelaus; Herod [king of Chaleis,] a person of great gra­

vity, and king Agrippa himself, a person that deserved the

greatest admiration. Now all these men bore their testimony

to me, that I had the strictest regard to truth ; who yet would

not have dissembled the matter, nor been silent, if I, out of

ignorance, or out of favor to any side, either had given false

colors to actions or omitted any of them.

10. There have been, indeed, some bad men who have at­

tempted to calumniate my history, and took it to be a kind

of scholastic performance for the exercise of young men. A

strange sort of accusation and calumny this ! since every one

that undertakes to deliver the history of actions truly, ought

to know them accurately himself in the first place, as either

having been concerned in them himself, or been informed of

them by such as knew them. Now, both these methods of

knowledge I may very properly pretend to in the composition

of both my works; for, as I said, I have translated the Anti­

quities out of our sacred books, which I easily could do, since

I was a priest by my birth, and have studied that philosophy

which is contained in those writings; and for the History of

the War, I wrote it as having been an actor myself in many

of its transactions, an eye-witness in the greatest part of the

rest, and was not unacquainted with any thing whatsoever

that was either said or done in it. How impudent, then, must

31*

