B. I.] AG AINST APION. 391

this self-contradiction hath happened to many other authors,

by reason of their ill-will to some people, I conclude is not

unknown to such as have read histories with sufficient care;

for some of them have endeavored to disgrace the nobility

of certain nations, and of some of the most glorious cities,

and have cast reproaches upon certain forms of government.

Thus hath Theopompus abused the city of Athens, Polycrates

that of Lacedoemon, as hath he that hath wrote the Tripoli-

ticus (for he is not Theopompus as is supposed by some) done

by the city of Thebes. Timeus also hath greatly abused the

foregoing people and others also: and this ill-treatment they

use chiefly when they have a contest with men of the greatest

reputation : some out of envy and malice, and others, as sup­

posing that, by this foolish talking of theirs, they may be

thought worthy of being remembered themselves; and, indeed,

they do by no means fail of their hopes with regard to the

foolish part of mankind, but men of sober judgment still con­

demn them of great malignity.

25. Now the Egyptians were the first that cast reproaches

upon us; in order to please which nation some others under­

took to pervert the truth, while they would neither own that

our forefathers came into Egypt from another country, as

the fact was, nor give a true account of our departure thence.

And, indeed, the Egyptians took many occasions to hate us

and envy us: in the first place, because our ancestors' had

had the dominion over their country; and when they were

delivered from them, and gone to their own country again,

they lived there in prosperity; in the next place, the differ­

ence of our religion from theirs hath occasioned great enmity

between us, while our way of divine worship did as much ex­

ceed that which their laws appointed, as does the nature of

God exceed that of brute beasts; for so far they all agree

through the whole country, to esteem such animals as gods,

although they differ one from another in the peculiar worship

they severally pay to them. And certainly men they are en­

tirely of vain and foolish minds, who have thus accustomed

1 The Phoenician shepherds, whom Joscphus mistook for the Israelites.

See the note on sect. 10.

