B. I.] AGAINST APION. 383

also, a still anclenter writer, and a poet, makes mention of

our nation, and informs us that it came to the assistance of

king Xerxes in his expedition against Greece. For, in his

enumeration of all those nations, he last of all, inserts ours

among the rest, when he says, — " At the last there passed

over a people wonderful to be beheld; for they spake the

Phoenician tongue with their mouths; they dwelt in the

Solymean mountains near a broad lake : their heads were

sooty; they had round rasures on them; their heads and

faces were like nasty horse heads also, that had been hardened

in the smoke."

I think, therefore, that it is evident to every body, that

Cherilus means us, because the Solymean mountains are in

our country, wherein we inhabit, as is also the lako called

Asphaltitis; for this is a broader and larger lake than any

other that is in Syria: and thus does Cherilus make mention

of us. But now, that not only the lowest sort of the Gre­

cians, but those that are had in the greatest admiration for

their philosophic improvements among them, did not only

know the Jews, but when they lighted upon any of them ad­

mired them also, it is easy for any one to know. For

Clearchus, who was the scholar of Aristotle, and inferior to

no one of the Peripateties whomsoever, in his first book con­

cerning sleep says, —" That Aristotle his master related

what follows of a Jew," and sets down Aristotle's own dis­

to bo desired by Xerxes for his army as the Jews, to whom he was always

very favorable. As for the rest of Cherilus's description, that their heads

were sooty ; thai they had round rasures oa their heads; that their heads and

faces ucre like nasty horse heads, which had beea hardened in the smoke; these

awkward characters probably fitted the Solymi of Pisidia no better than

they did the Jews in Judea. And, indeed, this reproachful languago here

given theso people, is to me a strong indication that they were the poor

despicable Jews, and not the Pisidian Solymi celebrated in Homer, whom

Cherilus here describes; nor are wo to expect that either Cherilus or Ilcca-

teus, or any other Pagan writers cited by Josephus and Eusebius, made no

mistakes in the Jewish history. If, by comparing their testimonies with the

more authentic record of that nation, wo find them, for the main, to confirm

the same ns we always do, we ought to be satisfied, and not expect that

they ever had an exact knowledge of all the circumstances of the Jewish

affairs, which, indeed, it was almost always impossible for them to havp.

See sect. 23.

