840 eleazar's speeches. [b. vn.

venge upon the Romans, when they acted in concert with our

countrymen. Wherefore, you see how little our good-will

and fidelity to them profited us, while they were slain, they

and their whole families, after the most inhuman manner,

which was all the requital that was made them for the assist­

ance they had afforded the others: for that very same de­

struction which they had prevented from falling upon the

others did they suffer themselves from them, as if they had

been ready to be the actors against them. It would be too

long for me to speak at this time of every destruction brought

upon us: for you cannot but know, that there was not any

one Syrian city which did not slay their Jewish inhabitants,

and were not more bitter enemies to us than were the Romans

themselves: nay, even those of Damascus, when they were

able to allege no tolerable pretence against us, filled their

city with the most barbarous slaughters of our people, and

cut the throats of eighteen thousand1 Jews with their wives

and children. And as to the multitude of those that were

slain in Egypt, and that with torments also, we have been

informed they were more than sixty thousand: those, indeed,

being in a foreign country, and so naturally meeting with

nothing to oppose against their enemies, were killed in the

manner forementioned. As for all those of us who havo

waged war against the Romans in our own country, had we

not sufficient reason to have sure hopes of victory ? for wc

had arms and walls, and fortresses so prepared as not to be

easily taken, and courage not to be moved by any dangers

in the cause of liberty, which encouraged us all to revolt from

the Romans. But, then, these advantages sufficed us but for

a short time, and only raised our hopes, while they really

appeared to be the origin of our miseries; for all wc had hath

been taken from us, and all hath fallen under our enemies,

as if these advantages were only to render their victory over

us the more glorious, and were not disposed for the preserva­

tion of those by whom these preparations were made. And

as for those that are already dead in the war, it is reasonable

we should esteem them blessed, for they are dead in defending

Sec B. ii. ch. xx. sect. 2, where the number of the slain is but 10,000.

