346 TIIE S1CARII AT ALEXANDRIA. [B. VIL

to assert their liberty, to esteem the Romans to he no better

than themselves, and to look upon God as their only lord and

master. But when part of the Jews of reputation opposed

them, they slew some of them, and with the others they were

very pressing in their exhortations to revolt from the Ro­

mans ; but when the principal men of the senate saw what

madness they were come to, they thought it no longer safe

for themselves to overlook them. So they got all the Jews

together to an assembly, and accused the madness of the

Sicarii, and demonstrated that they had been the authors of

all the evils that had come upon them. They said also, that

" these men, now they were ran away from Judea, having no

sure hope of escaping, because as soon as ever they shall bo

known they will be soon destroyed by the Romans, they come

hither, and fill us full of those calamities which belong to

them, while we have not been partakers with them in any of

their sins." Accordingly, they exhorted the multitude to

have a care lest they should be brought to destruction by

their means, and to make their apology to the Romans for

what had been done, by delivering these men up to them;

who, being thus apprised of the greatness of the danger they

were in, complied with what was proposed, and ran with great

violence upon the Sicarii, and seized upon them; and, indeed,

six hundred of them were caught immediately; but as to all

those that fled into Egypt,1 and to the Egyptian Thebes, it

was not long ere they were caught also, and brought back,

whose courage, or whether we ought to call it madness or

hardiness in their opinions, every body was amazed at. For

when all sorts of torments and vexations of their bodies that

could be devised were made use of to them, they could not

get any one of them to comply so far as to confess, or seem

1 Since Josephus here informs us, that some of these Sicarii or ruffians

went from Alexandria (which was itself in Egypt, in a large sense) into

Egypt and Thebes, there situated, Reland well observes from Vosius, that

Egypt sometimes denotes Proper or Upper Egypt as distinct from Delta and

the lower parts near Palestine. Accordingly, as he adds, those that say it

never rains in Egypt, must mean the Proper or Upper Egypt, because it

does sometimes rain in the other parts. See the notes on Antiq. B. ii. ch.

vii. sect. 7; and B. iii. ch. i. sect. 6.

