314 TRIUMPH OF THE ROMAN EMPERORS, [fi. VII.

or even four stories one above another. The magnificence

also of their structure afforded one both pleasure and surprise;

for upon many of them were laid carpets of gold. There was

also wrought gold and ivory fastened about them all, and

many resemblances of the war, and those in several ways,

and variety of contrivances, affording a most lively portraiture

of itself, for there was to be seen a happy country laid waste,

and entire squadrons of enemies slain; while some of them

ran away, and some were carried into captivity, with walls

of great altitude and magnitude overthrown, and ruined by

machines, with the strongest fortifications taken, and the

walls of most populous cities upon the tops of hills seized on,

and an army pouring itself within the walls; as also every

place full of slaughter, and supplications of the enemies when

they were no longer able to lift up their hands in way of

opposition. Fire also sent upon temples was here represented,

and houses overthrown, and falling upon their owners: rivers

also, after they came out of a large and melancholy desert,

ran down, not into a land cultivated, nor as drink for men or

for cattle, but through a land still on fire upon every side;

for the Jews related that such a thing they had undergone

during this war. Now, the workmanship of these representa­

tions was so magnificent and lively in the construction of the

things, that it exhibited what had been done to such as did

not see it, as if they had been there really present. On the

top of every one of these pageants, was placed the commander

of the city that was taken, and the manner wherein he was

taken. Moreover, there followed those pageants a great

number of ships ; and for the other spoils they were carried

in great plenty. But for those' that were taken in the

1 Seo the representations of these Jewish vessels, as they still stand on

Titus's triumphal arch at Kome, in Reland's very curious book, de Spoliit

Templi throughout. Rut what things are chiefly to be noted are these. —

(1.) That Josephus says, the candlestick here carried in this triumph was

not thoroughly like that which was used in the temple, which appears in the

number of the little knops and flowers in that on the triumphal arch not well

agreeing with Moses' description, Exod. xxv. 31-36. (2) The smallness of

the branches in Josephus, compared with the thickness of those on that

