330 MASADA AND THE SICARII. [B. VII.

appointed for that purpose, but water was also to be brought

to the camp, because the place afforded no fountain that was

near it. When, therefore, Silva had ordered these affairs

beforehand, he fell to besieging the place; which siege was

likely to stand in need of a great deal of skill and pains, by

reason of the strength of the fortress, the nature of which I

will now describe.

3. There was a rock, not small in circumference, and very

high. It was encompassed with valleys of such vast depth

downward, that the eye could not reach their bottoms: they

were abrupt, and such as no animal could walk upon, ex­

cepting at two places of the rock, where it subsides, in order

to afford a passage for ascent, though not without difficulty.

Now, of the ways that lead to it, one is that from the lake

AsphaltiCis, towards the sunrising, and another on the west,

where the ascent is easier: the one of these ways is called

the Serpent, as resembling that animal in its narrowness and

its perpetual windings: for it is broken off at the prominent

precipices of the rock, and returns frequently into itself, and

lengthening again by little and little, hath much ado to pro­

ceed forward; and he that would walk along it, must first go

on one leg and then on the other ; there is also nothing but

destruction in case your feet slip; for on each side there is a

vastly deep chasm and precipice, sufficient to quell the

courage of every body by the terror it infuses into the mind.

When, therefore, a man hath gone along this way for thirty

furlongs, the rest is the top of the hill, not ending at a small

point, but is no other than a plain upon the highest part of

the mountain. Upon this top of the hill Jonathan the high-

priest first of all built a fortress, and called it Masada; after

which the rebuilding of this place employed the care of king

Herod to a great degree: he also built a wall round about

the entire top of the hill, seven furlongs long: it was com­

posed of white stone; its height was twelvo and its breadth

eight cubits, there were also erected upon that wall thirty-

eight towers, each of them fifty cubits high; out of which you

might pass into lesser edifices, which were built on the inside

round the entire wall; for the king reserved the top of the

