C. IV.] COME TO JERUSALEM. 109

such an unexpected attempt of theirs, especially as the greater

part of them were unarmed and unskilled in affairs of war ;

and that besides the multitude of the citizens would not be

easily gathered together, but confined to their houses by the

storm; and that if there were any hazard in their under­

taking, it became them to suffer any thing whatsoever them­

selves, rather than to overlook so great a multitude as were

miserably perishing on their account. But the more prudent

part of them disapproved of this forcible method, because

they saw not only the guards about them very numerous, but

the walls of the city itself carefully watched, by reason of

the Idumeans. They also supposed that Ananus would be

every where, and visit the guards every hour; which, indeed,

was done upon other nights, but was omitted that night, not

by reason of any slothfulness of Ananus, but by the over­

bearing appointment of fate, that so both he might himself

perish, and the multitude of the guards might perish with

him; for truly as the night was far gone, and the storm very

terrible, Ananus gave the guards in the cloisters leave to go

to sleep ; while it came into the heads of the zealots to make

use of the saws belonging to the temple, and to cut the bars

of the gates to pieces. The noise of the wind, and that not

inferior sound of the thunder, did here also conspire with their

designs, that the noise of the saws was not heard by the

others.

7. So they secretly went out of the temple to the wall of

the city, and made use of their saws, and opened that gate

which was over against the Idumeans. Now at first there

came a fear upon the Idumeans themselves which disturbed

them, as imagining that Ananus and his party were coming

to attack them, so that every one of them had his right hand

upon his sword, in order to defend himself; but they soon

came to know who they were that came to them, and were

entered the city. And had the Idumeans then fallen upon

the city, nothing could have hindered them from destroying

the people every man of them, such was the rage they were

in at that time: but as they first of all made haste to get the

zealots out of custody, which those that brought them in

IV. —10

