212 TITUS RESUMES THE SIEGE. [B. V.

all the other springs that were without the city, did so far

fail that water was sold by distinct measures; whereas they

now have such a great quantity of water for your enemies,

as is sufficient not only for drink both for themselves and

their cattle, but for watering their gardens also. The same

wonderful sign you had also experience of formerly, when

the forementioned king of Babylon made war against us, and

when he took the city and burnt the temple; while yet I

believe the Jews of that age were not so impious as you are.

Wherefore, I cannot but suppose that God is fled out of his

sanctuary, and stands on the side of those against whom you

fight. Now, even a man, if he be but a good man, will fly

from an impure house, and will hate those that are in it; and

do you persuade yourselves that God will abide with you in

your iniquities, who sees all secret things, and hears what is

kept most private ? Now, what crime is there, I pray you,

that is so much as kept secret among you, or is concealed by

you ? nay, what is there that is not open to your very

enemies ? for you show your transgressions after a pompous

manner, and contend one with another which of you shall be

more wicked than another; and you make a public demonstra­

tion of your injustice, as if it were virtue. However, there

is a place left for your preservation, if you be willing to ac­

cept of it; and God is easily reconciled to those that confess

their faults and repent of them. O hard-hearted wretches

as you are! cast away all your arms, and take pity of your

country already going to ruin: return from your wicked

ways, and have regard to the excellency of that city you are

going to betray, to that excellent temple, with the donations

of so many countries in it. Who could bear to be the first

that should set that temple on fire ? who could be willing that

these things should be no more ? and what is there that can

better deserve to be preserved ? O insensible creatures, and

more stupid than are the stones themselves! And if you

cannot look at these things with discerning eyes, yet, how­

ever, have pity upon your families, and set before every one

of your eyes your children, and wives, and parents, which

will be gradually consumed either by famine or by war. I

