192 TITUS PRESSES THE SIEGE. [B. V.

stood off, and threw themselves down upon the ground; by

which means, and by their thus guarding themselves, the stone

fell down, and did them no harm. But the Romans contrived

how to prevent that by blacking the stone, who then could

aim at them with success, when the stone was not discerned

beforehand, as it had been till then; and so they destroyed

many of them at one blow. Yet did not the Jews, under all

this distress, permit the Romans to raise their banks in quiet;

but they shrewdly and boldly exerted themselves, and repelled

them both by night and by day.

4. And now, upon the finishing the Roman works, the work­

men measured the distance there was from the wall, and this

by lead and line, which they threw to it from their banks;

for they could not measure it any otherwise, because the Jews

would shoot at them, if they came to measure it themselves;

and when they found that the engines could reach the wall,

they brought them thither. Then did Titus set his engines at

proper distances, so much nearer to the wall, that the Jews

might not be able to repel them, and gave orders they should

go to work: and when thereupon a prodigious noise echoed

round about from three places, and that, on the sudden, there

was a great noise made by the citizens that were within the

city, and no less a terror fell upon the seditious themselves;

whereupon both sorts, seeing the common danger they were

in, contrived to make a like defence. So those of different

factions cried out one to another, that they acted entirely as

in concert with their enemies; whereas they ought, however,

notwithstanding God did not grant them a lasting concord,

in their present circumstances to lay aside their enmities one

against another, and to unite together against the Romans.

Accordingly, Simon gave those that came from the temple

hut a very small degree of probability. If I were to make an emendation,

by mere conjecture, I would read nETPOi- instead of YIOS, though the like­

ness be not so great as in IOE; because that is the word used by Josephus

just before, as I have already noted, on this very occasion, while IOs, an

arrow or dart, is only a poetical word, and never used by Josephus elsewhere,

and is, indeed, no way suitable to the occasion, this engine not throwing

arrows or darts, but great stones, nt this time.

