350 JONATHAN. [B. Til.

2. Now Catullus easily admitted of these his calumnies,

and aggravated matters greatly, and made tragical exclama­

tions, that he might also be supposed to have had a hand in

the finishing of the Jewish war. But what was still harder,

he did not only give a too easy belief to his stories, but he

taught the Sicarii to accuse men falsely. He bid this Jona­

than, therefore, to name one Alexandei a Jew (with whom

he had formerly had a quarrel, and openly professed that he

hated him ;) he also got him to name his 'vife Bernice as con­

cerned with him. These two Catullus ordered to, be slain in

the first place; nay, after them he caused all the rich and

wealthy Jews to be slain, being no fewer in all than three

thousand. This he thought ho might do safely, because he

confiscated their effects, and added them to Caesar's revenues.

3. Nay, indeed, lest any Jews that lived elsewhere should

convict him of this villany, he extended his false accusations

farther, and persuaded Jonathan and certain others that were

caught with him, to bring an accusation of attempts for inno­

vation against the Jews that were of the best character both

at Alexandria and at Rome. One of these against whom

this treacherous accusation was laid was Josephus, the writer

of these books. However, this plot, thus contrived by Ca­

tullus, did not succeed according to his hopes; for though he

came himself to Rome, and brought Jonathan and his com­

panions along with him in bonds, and thought he should have

had no farther inquisition made as to those lies that were

forged under his government or by his means; yet did Ves­

pasian suspect the matter, and make an inquiry how far it

was true. And when he understood that the accusation laid

against the Jews was an unjust one, he cleared them of the

crimes charged upon them, and this on account of Titus's

concern about the matter, and brought a deserved punish­

ment upon Jonathan; for he was first tormented and then

burnt alive.

4. But as to Catullus, the emperors were so gentle to him,

that he underwent no severer condemnation at this time: yet

was it not long before he fell into a complicated and almost

incurable distemper, and died miserably. He was not only

