C. Xlii.] AND SACRILEGE. 229

also kept Josephus's father in prison, and made public pro­

clamation, that no citizen whatsoever should either speak to

him himself, or go into his company among others, for fear

he should betray them. They also slew such as joined in

lamenting these men without any farther examination.

2. Now when Judas, tho son of Judas, who was one of

Simon's under-officers, and a person intrusted by him to keep

one of the towers, saw this procedure of Simon, he called

together ten of those under him, that were most faithful to

him (perhaps this was done partly out of pity to those that

had so barbarously been put to death, but principally in order

to provide for his own safety,) and spake thus to them: —

" How long shall we bear these miseries? or what hopes have

we of deliverance by thus continuing faithful to such wicked

wretches ? Is not the famine already come against us ? Are

not the Romans in a manner gotten within the city? Is not

Simon become unfaithful to his benefactors ? and is there not

reason to fear he will very soon bring us to the like punish­

ment, while the security the Romans offer us is sure ? Come

on, let us surrender up this wall, and save ourselves and the

city. Nor will Simon be very much hurt, if, now he despairs

of deliverance, he be brought to justice a little sooner than

he thinks on." Now these ten were prevailed upon by those

arguments; so he sent the rest of those that were under him

some oi;o way and some another, that no discovery might be

made of what they had resolved upon. Accordingly, he

called to the Romans from the tower about the third hour;

but they, some of them out of pride, despised what he said,

and others of them did not believe him to be in earnest,

though the greatest number delayed the matter, as believing

they should get possession of the city in a little time without

any hazard. But when Titus was just coming thither with

his armed men, Simon was acquainted with the matter before

he came, and presently took the tower into his own custody

before it was surrendered, and seized upon these men, and

put them to death in the sight of the Romans themselves ;

and when he had mangled their dead bodies, he threw them

down before the wall of the city.

IV. —20

