C. III.] OF THE JEWS. 259

pains they had taken; at which procedure of theirs many of

the most inconsiderate among the Komans, who were carried

away with violent passions, followed hard after them as they

were retiring, and applied ladders to the cloister, and got up

to it suddenly: but the more prudent part of them, when

they understood this unaccountable retreat of the Jews, stood

still where they were before. However, the cloister was full

of those that were gone up the ladders; at which time the

Jews set it all on fire; and as the flame burst out every where

on the sudden, the Romans that were out of the danger were

seized with a very great consternation, as were those that

were in the midst of the danger in the utmost distress. So

when they perceived themselves surrounded with the flames,

some of them threw themselves down backwards into the

city, and some among their enemies [in the temple;] as did

many leap down to their own men, and broke their limbs to

pieces; but a great number of those that were going to take

these violent methods were prevented by the fire, though

some prevented the fire by their own swords. However, the

fire was on the sudden carried so far as to surround those

who would have otherwise perished. As for Caesar himself,

he could not, however, but commiserate those that thus

perished, although they got up thither without any order for

so doing, since there was no way of giving them any relief.

Yet was this some comfort to those that were destroyed, that

every body might see that person grieve for whose sake they

came to their end; for he cried out openly to them, and

leaped up, and exhorted those that were about him to do their

utmost to relieve them. So every one of them died cheer­

fully, as carrying along with him these words, and this inten­

tion of Caesar, as a sepulehral monument. Some there were,

indeed, who retired into the wall of the cloister, which was

broad, and were preserved out of the fire, but were then sur­

rounded by the Jews; and although they made resistance

against the Jews, for a long time, yet were they wounded by

them, and at length they all fell down dead.

2. At the last, a young man among them, whose name was

Longus, became a decoration to this sad affair, and while

