174 JERUSALEM. [B. V.

CHAPTER IV.

THE DESCRIPTION OF JERUSALEM.

§ 1. The city of Jerusalem was fortified with three walls,

on such parts as were not encompassed with unpassable val­

leys ; for in such places it hath but one wall. The city was

built upon two hills, which are opposite to one another, and

have a valley to divide them asunder; at which valley the

corresponding rows of houses on both hills end. Of these

hills that which contains the upper city is much higher, and

in length more direct. Accordingly, it was called the Cita­

del by king David; ho was the father of that Solomon who

built this temple :it the first; but it is by us called the Up­

per Market-place. But the other hill, which was called

Acra, and sustains the lower city, is of the shape of a moon

when she is horned: over against this there was a third hill,

but naturally lower than Acra, and parted formerly from the

other by a broad valley. However, in those times when the

Asamoneans reigned, they filled up that valley with earth,

and had a mind to join the city to the temple. They then

took off part of the height of Acra, and reduced it to be of

less elevation than it was before, that the temple might be

superior to it. Now the valley of the cheesemongers, as it

was called, and was that which we told you before dis­

tinguished the hill of the upper city from that of the lower,

extended as far as Siloam ; for that is the name of a fountain

which hath sweet water in it, and this in great plenty also.

But on the outsides these hills arc surrounded by deep val-

lcvs, and, by reason of the precipices to them belonging on

both sides, they are every where unpassable.

2. Now of these three walls the old one was hard to be

taken, both by reason of the valleys, and of that hill on which

It was built, and which was above them. But besides that

great advantage, as to the place where they were situated,

it was also built very strong; because David and Solomon,

and the following kings, were very zealous about this work.

