468 DISSERTATION I.

tiles also, he must manifestly have had somewhat in him

extraordinary above the rest of mankind; for how otherwise

could he draw over so many of the Jews and of the Gentiles,

unless he performed admirable and amazing works, and used

a method of teaching that was not common ? Moreover, the

scripture of the Acts of the Apostles bear witness, that there

were many ten thousands of Jews who were persuaded that

he was the Christ of God, who was foretold by the prophets

[Acts xi. 20.]

About A. D. 330. Hist. Eccleg. lib. i. cap. 11. —Now the

divine scripture of the gospels makes mention of John the

Baptist as having his head cut off by the younger Herod.

Josephus also concurs in this history, and makes mention of

Herodias by name, as wife of his brother, whom Herod had

married, upon divorcing his former lawful wife. She was the

daughter of Aretas, king of the Petrcan Arabians; and

which Herodias he had parted from her husband while he was

alive: on which account also, when he had slain John, he

made war with Aretas [Aretas made war with him,] because

his daughter had been used dishonorably: in which war,

when it came to a battle, he says that all Herod's army was

destroyed, and that he suffered this because of his wicked

contrivance against John. Moreover, the same Josephus, by

acknowledging John to have been a most righteous man, and

the Baptist, conspires in his testimony with what is written

in the gospels. He also relates, that Herod lost his kingdom

for the sake of the same Herodias, together with whom he

was himself condemned to be banished to Vienna, a city of_

Gaul. And tins is his account in the eighteenth book of the

Antiquities, where he writes thus of~JoIm verbatim: — Some

of the Jews thought that the destruction of Herod's army

came from God, and that very justly, as a punishment for

what he did against John that was called the Baptist, for

Herod slew him, who was a good man, and one that com­

manded the Jews to exercise virtue, both as to righteousness

towards one another, and piety towards God, and so to come

to baptism, for that by this means the washing [with water]

would appear acceptable to him, when they made use of it,

