262 TERRIBLE FAMINE. [b. VI.

own age; and, besides, my country would have had little

reason to thank me for suppressing the miseries that she un­

derwent at this time.

4. There was a certain woman that dwelt beyond Jordan;

her name was Mary; her father was Eleazar, of the village

Bethezub, which signifies the House of Hyssop. She was

eminent for her family and her wealth, and had fled away to

Jerusalem, with the rest of the multitude, and was with them

besieged therein at this time. The other effects of this woman

had been already seized upon, such I mean as she had brought

with her out of Perea, and removed to the city. What she

had treasured up besides, as also what food she had contrived

to save, had been also carried off by the rapacious guards,

who came every day running into her house for that purpose.

This put the poor woman into a very great passion; and by

the frequent reproaches and imprecations she cast at these

rapacious villains, she had provoked them to anger against

her; but none of them, either out of the indignation she had

raised against herself, or out of commiseration of her case,

would take away her life; and if she found any food, she

perceived her labors were for others, and not for herself; and

it was now become impossible for her any way to find any

more food, while the famine pierced through her very bowels

and marrow, when also her passion fired to a degree beyond

the famine itself; nor did she consult with any thing but with

her passion and the necessity she was in. She then attempted

a most unnatural thing, and snatching up her son, who was a

child sucking at her breast, she said, — "O thou miserable

infant! for whom shall I preserve thee in this war, this famine,

and this sedition ? As to the war with the Romans, if they

preserve our lives, we must be slaves. This famine also will

destroy us even before that slavery comes upon us. Yet are

the seditious rogues more terrible than both the other. Come

on; be thou my food, and bo thou a fury to these seditious

varlets, and a byword to the world, which is all that is now

wanting to complete the calamities of us Jews." As soon as

she had said this, she slew her son, and then roasted him,

and ate the one-half of him, and kept the other half by her,

