B. II.] AGAINST APION. 409

avoided all such needless decorations as Apion hath here de­

vised. He says farther, — "How he had heard of the ancient

men, that Moses was of Heliopolis." To be sure that was

because being a younger man himself, he believed those that

by their elder age were acquainted and conversed with him !

Now this grammarian as he was could not certainly tell

which was the poet Homer's country, no more than he could

which was the country of Pythagoras, who lived comparatively

but a little while ago; yet does he thus easily determine the

age of Moses, who preceded them such a vast number of

years, as depending on his ancient men's relation, which shows

how notorious a liar he was. But then as to this chronological

determination of the time when he says he brought the leprous

people, the blind and the lame out of Egypt, see how well this

most accurate grammarian of ours agrees with those that

have written before him. Manetho says, that the Jews de­

parted out of Egypt in the reign of Tethmosis, three hundred

and ninety-three years before Danaus fled to Argos; Lysi-

machus says it was under king Bocchoris, that is, one thousand

seven hundred years ago; Molo and some others determined

it as every one pleased ; but this Apion of ours, 33 deserving

to be believed before them, hath determined it exactly to have

been in the seventh Olympiad, and the first year of that

Olympiad; the very same year in which he says that Carthage

was built by the Phoenicians. The reason why he added this

building of Carthage was, to bo sure, in order, as ho thought,

to strengthen his assertion by so evident a character of chro­

nology. But he was not aware that this character confutes

his assertion; for if we may give credit to the Phoenician

records as the time of the first coming of their colony to

Carthage, they relate, that Hirom their king was above a

hundred and fifty years earlier than the building of Carthage,

concerning whom I have formerly produced testimonials out

of those Phoenician records; as also that this Hirom was a

friend of Solomon when he was building the temple at Jeru­

salem, and gave him great assistance in his building that

temple; while still Solomon himself built that temple six

hundred and twelve years after the Jews came out of Egypt.

IV. —35

