42 VESPASIAN. [B. III.

them such as could shoot darts and arrows, with the lighter

engines for throwing stones and darts also; and, besides

these, he set upon them the stoutest men among the slingers,

who not being to be seen by reason of the height they stood

upon, and the battlements that protected" them, might throw

their weapons at those that were upon the wall, and were

easily seen by them. Hereupon the Jews, not being easily

able to escape those darts that were thrown down upon their

heads, nor to avenge themselves on those whom they could

not see, and perceiving that the height of the towers was so

great, that a dart which they threw with their hand could

hardly reach it, and that the iron plates about them made it

very hard to come at them by fire, they ran away from the

walls, and fled hastily out of the city, and fell upon those that

shot at them. And thus did the people of Jotapata resist

the Romans, while a great number of them were every day

killed, without their being able to retort the evil upon their

enemies, nor could they keep them out of the city without

danger to themselves.

31. About this time it was that Vespasian sent out Trajan

against a city called Japha, that lay near to Jotapata, and

that desired innovations, and was puffed up with the unex­

pected length of the opposition of Jotapata. This Trajan

was the commander of the tenth legion, and to him Vespasian

committed one thousand horsemen and two thousand footmen.

When Trajan came to the city he found it too hard to be

taken ; for besides the natural strength of its situation, it was

also secured by a double wall; but when he saw the people

of this city coming out of it, and ready to fight him, he joined

battle with them, and after a short resistance which they

made, he pursued after them, and as they fled to their first

wall, the Romans followed them so closely, that they fell in

together with them ; but when the Jews were endeavoring to

get again within their second wall, their fellow-citizens shut

them out, as being afraid that the Romans would force them­

selves in with them. It was certainly God, therefore, who

brought the Romans to punish the Galileans, and did then

expose the people of the city every one of them manifestly to

