142 SIMON 01 GEEASA. [B. IV.

against him; and all the Idumeans separated themselves from

the tyrant, and attempted to destroy him, and this out of

their envy at his power and hatred of his cruelty ; so they

got together, and slew many of the zealots, and drove the

rest before them into that royal palace that was built by

Grapte, who was a relation of Izates, the king of Adiabene:

the Idumeans fell in with them, and drove the zealots out

thence into the temple, and betook themselves to plunder

John's effects; for both he himself was in that palace, and

therein he had laid up the spoils he had acquired by his

tyrants. In the mean time the multitude of those zealots

that were dispersed over the city ran together to the temple,

unto those that had fled thither: and John prepared to bring

them down against the people and the Idumeans, who were

not so much afraid of being attacked by them, because they

were themselves better soldiers than they, as at their mad足

ness, lest they should privately sally out of the temple, and

get among them, and not only destroy them, but set the city

on fire also. So they assembled themselves together, and

the high-priests with them, and took counsel after what man足

ner they should avoid their assault. Now it was God who

turned their opinions to the worst advice, and thence they

devised such a remedy to get themselves free as was worse

than the disease itself. Accordingly, in order to overthrow

John, they determined to admit Simon, and earnestly to desire

the introduction of a second tyrant into the city; which reso足

lution they brought to perfection, and sent Matthias, the high-

priest, to beseech this Simon to come into them, of whom

they had so often been afraid. Those also that had fled from

the zealots in Jerusalem joined in this request to him, out of

the desire they had of preserving their houses and their

effects. Accordingly, he, in an arrogant manner, granted

them his lordly protection, and came into the city in order to

deliver it from the zealots. The people also made joyful ac足

clamations to him, as their savior and their preserver: but

when he was come in with his army, he took care to secure

his own authority, and looked upon those that had invited

him in to be no less his enemies than those against whom the

invitation was intended.

