150 AFFAIRS AT ROME. [B. IV.

whereupon the commanders promised themselves glorious

things from this requital Vespasian made to a stranger.

Titus was then present with his father, and said,—" O father,

it is but just that the scandal [of a prisoner] should be taken

off Josephus together with his iron chain: for if we do not

barely loose his bonds, but cut them to pieces, he will be like

a man that hath never been bound at all:" for that is the

usual method as to such as have been bound without a cause.

This advice was agreed to by Vespasian also; so there came

a man in, and cut the chain to pieces, while Josephus re­

ceived this testimony of his integrity for a reward, and was

moreover esteemed a person of credit as to futurities also.

CHAPTER XI.

TIIAT LTON THE CONQUEST AND SLAUGHTER OF VITELLIUS,

VESPASIAN HASTENED HIS JOURNEY TO ROME, BUT TITUS

HIS SON RETURNED TO JERUSALEM.

§ 1. And now when Vespasian had given answers to tho

embassages, and had disposed of tho places of power1 justly,

and according to every one's deserts, he came to Antioch,

and consulting which way he had best take, he preferred to

go to Rome, rather than to march to Alexandria, because he

saw that Alexandria was sure to him already, but that the

affairs at Rome were put in disorder by Vitellius; so he sent

Mucianus to Italy, and committed a considerable army both

of horsemen and footmen to him ; yet was Mucianus afraid

of going by sea, because it was the middle of winter, and so

he led his army on foot through Cappadocia and Phrygia.

2. In the mean time Antonius Primus took the third of the

legions that were in Mysia, for he was president of that pro­

1 This is well observed by Josephus, that Vespasian, in order to secure his

success, and establish his government at first, distributed his offices and

places upon the foot of justice, nnd bestowed them on such as best deserved

them, nnd were best fit for them. Which wise conduct in a mere heathen

ought to put those rulers nnd ministers of state to shame, who, professing

Christianity, act otherwise, and expose themselves nnd their kingdoms to

vice and to destruction.

