B. II.] AGAINST APION. 433

God is tne inspector of their lives, will not permit themselves

in any sin. And this is the character of our legislator; he

was no impostor, no deceiver, as his revilers say, though un­

justly, but such a one as they brag Minos' to have been

among the Greeks, and other legislators after him ; for some

of them suppose that they had their laws from Jupiter, while

Minos said, that the revelation of his laws was to be referred

to Apollo and his oracle at Delphi, whether they really

thought they were so derived, or supposed, however, that

they could persuade the people easily that so it was. But

which of these it was who made the best laws, and which had

the greatest reason to believe that God was their author, it

will be easy upon comparing those laws themselves together

to determine; for it is time that we come to that point. 2[ j

Now there arc innumerable differences in the particular cus­

toms and laws that are among all mankind, which a man may

briefly reduce under the following heads : — Some legislators

have permitted their governments to be under monarchies,

others put them under oligarchies, and others under a re­

publican form; but our legislator had no regard to any of

these forms: but he ordained our government to be, what,

by a strained expression, may be termed a Theocracy? by

1 That is, Moses really was, what the heathen legislators pretended to be,

under a divine direction; nor does it yet appear that these pretensions to a

supernatural conduct, cither in these legislators or oracles, were mere de­

lusions of men, without any demoniacal impressions, nor that Josephus took

them so to be, as the ancicntest and contemporary authors did still believe

them to be supernatural.

3 This whole very largo passage from [ ] to *»*, is corrected by Dr.

Hudson, from Eusebius's citation of it, Proep. Evangel, viii. 8, which is here

not a little different from the present MSS. of Josephus.

s This expression itself, QcoKpariav dirf-Jeife to noMrsvpa, That Moses
ordained

the Jewish government to be a Theocracy, may be illustrated by that parallel

expression in the Antiquities, B. iii. ch. viii. sect. 9, that " Moses left it
to

God to be present at his sacrifices when he pleased, and when he pleased to

be absent. Both ways of speaking sound harsh in the ears of Jews and

Christians, as do several others which Josephus uses to the heathens; but

still they were not very improper in him, when he all along thought fit to

nccommodatc himself, both in his Antiquities and in these his books against

Apion, all written for the use of the Greeks and Romans, to their notions

and language, and this as far as ever truth would give him lcave. Though

IV. — 37

