146 V JS S P A S I A N, E M P E R 0 R . [b. IV.

and will have farther all the armies in the east to support

them, as also those in Europe, so far as they are out of the

distance and dread of Vitellius, besides such auxiliaries as

they may have in Italy itself, that is, Vespasian's brother,1

and his other son [Domitian;] the one of which will bring in

a great many of those young men that are of dignity, while

the other is intrusted with the government of the city, which

office of his will be no small means of Vespasian's obtaining

the government. Upon the whole, the case may be such that

if we ourselves make farther delays, the senate may choose

an emperor whom the soldiers, who are the saviors of the

empire, will have in contempt."

4. These were the discourses the soldiers had in their

several companies; after which they got together in a great

body, and encouraging one another, they declared Vespasian

emperor,2 and exhorted him to save the government which

was now in danger. Now Vespasian's concern had been for

a considerable time about the public; yet did not he intend

to set up for governor himself, though his actions showed him

to deserve it, while he preferred that safety, which is in a

private life, before the dangers in a state of such dignity:

but when he refused the empire, the commanders insisted the

more earnestly upon his acceptance, and the soldiers came

about him with their drawn swords in their hands, and

threatened to kill him, unless he would now live according to

his dignity. And when he had shown his reluctance a great

while, and had endeavored to thrust away this dominion

from him, he at length, being not able to persuade them,

yielded to their solicitations that would salute him emperor.

'This brother of Vespasian was Flnvius Sabinus, as Suetonius informs us,

in Vitell. sect. 15, and in Vespas. sect. 2. He is also named by Josephus

presently, chap. xi. sect. 4.

* It is plain by the nature of the thing, as well as by Josephus and  
Eutropius, that Vespasian was first of all saluted emperor in Judea, and not

till some time afterward in Egypt. Whence Tacitus's and Suctonius's

present copies must be correctod, when they both say that he was first pro­

claimed in Egypt, and that on the kalends of July, while they still say it

was the fifth of the nones or ides of the same July, before he was proclaimed

in Judea. I suppose the month they there intended was June, and not

July, as the copies now have it; nor does Tacitus's coherence imply less.

See Essny on the Revelation, p. 130.

