444 FLAVIUSJOSEPIIUS [b. II.

rent notions of God, and had continued a long time in the

firm observance of such laws as ours, I cannot but suppose

that all men would admire them, on a reflection upon the fre­

quent changes they had therein been themselves subject to ;

and this while those that have attempted to write somewhat of

the same kind for politic government and for laws arc accused

as composing monstrous things, and are said to have under­

taken an impossible task upon them. And here I will say

nothing of those other philosophers who have undertaken any

thing of this nature in their writings. But even Plato him­

self, who is so admired by the Greeks on account of that

gravity in his manners, and force in his words, and that

ability he had to persuade men beyond all other philosophers,

is little better than laughed at, and exposed to ridicule on

that account, by those that pretend to sagacity in political

affairs ; although he that shall diligently peruse his writings

will find his precepts to be somewhat gentle, and pretty near

to the customs of the generality of mankind. Nay, Plato

himself confesseth, that it is not safe to publish the true notion

concerning God among the ignorant multitude. Yet do some

men look upon Plato's discourses as no better than certain

idle words set off with great artifice. However, they admire

Lycurgus as the principal lawgiver: and all men celebrate

Sparta for having continued in the firm observance of his laws

for a very long time. So far, then, we have gained that it is

to be confessed a mark of virtue to submit to laws.1 But

then, let such as admire this in the Lacedemonians compare

that duration of theirs with more than two thousand years

which our political government hath continued; and let them

farther consider, that though the Lacedemonians did seem to

observe their laws exactly, while they enjoyed their liberty,

yet that when they underwent a change in their fortune they

forgot almost all those laws; while we having been under ten

1 It may not be amiss to set down hero a. very remarkable testimony of

tho great philosopher Cicero as to the preference of laws to philosophy. " I

-will," says he, " bol dly declare my opinion, though the whole world be  
offended at it. I prefer this little book of the Twelve Tables alone to all
the

volumes of the philosophers. I find it to be not only of more weight, but

also much more useful."—lis Oratore.

