110 CRUELTY OF [B. IV.

earnestly desired them to do, and not to overlook those for

whose sake they were come, in the midst of their distresses,

nor to bring them into a still greater danger ; for that when

they had once seized on the guards, it would be easy for them

to fall upon the city; but that if the city were once alarmed,

they would not then be able to overcome those guards, be­

cause as soon as they should perceive they were there, they

would put themselves in order to fight them, and would hinder

their coming into the temple.

CHAPTER V.

THE CRUELTY OF THE IDUMEANS, WHEN THEY WERE GOTTEN

INTO THE TEMPLE DURING THE STORM, AND OF THE ZEAL­

OTS. CONCERNING THE SLAUGHTER OF ANANUS, AND JESUS,

AND ZACIIARIAS. AND HOW THE IDUMEANS RETIRED HOME.

§ 1. This advice pleased the Idumeans, and they ascended

through the city to the temple. The zealots were also in

great expectation of their coming, and earnestly waited for

them. When, therefore, these were entering, they also came

boldly out of the inner temple, and mixing themselves among

the Idumeans, they attacked the guards; and some of those

that were upon the wateh, but were fallen asleep, they killed

as they were asleep ; but as those that were now awakened

made a cry, the whole multitude arose, and in the amazement

they were in, caught hold of their arms immediately, and be­

took themselves to their own defence; and so long as they

thought they were only the zealots who attacked them, they

went on boldly, as hoping to overpower them by their num­

bers, but when they saw others pressing in upon them also,

they perceived the Idumeans were got in ; and the greatest

part of them laid aside their arms, together with their cour­

age, and betook themselves to lamentations. But some few

of the younger sort covered themselves with their armor, and

valiantly received the Idumeans, and for a great while pro­

tected the multitude of old men. Others, indeed, gave a

signal to those that were in the city of the calamities they

