C. V.] TRIUMPH OF THE ROMAN EMPERORS. 313

shows as they deserve, and the magnificence of them all;

such indeed, as a man could not easily think of, as performed

either by the labor of workmen, or the variety of riches, or

the rarities of nature: for almost all such curiosities as the

most happy men ever get by piecemeal were here one heaped

on another, and those both admirable and costly in their na­

ture ; and as all brought together on that day demonstrated

the vastness of the dominions of the Romans: for there was

here to be seen a mighty quantity of silver, and gold, and

ivory, contrived into all sorts of things, and did not appear

as carried along in pompous show only, but, as a man may

say, running along like a river. Some parts were composed

of the rarest purple hangings, and so carried along, and

others accurately represented to the life what was embroidered

by the art of the Babylonians. There were also precious

stones that were transparent, some set in crowns of gold and

some in other ouches as the workmen pleased; and of these

such a vast number were brought, that we could not but

thence learn how vainly wo imagined any of them to be

rarities. The images of the gods were also carried, being as

well wonderful for their largeness as made very artificially,

and with great skill of the workmen: nor were any of these

images of any other than very costly materials ; and many

species of animals were brought, every one in their own

natural ornaments. The men also, who brought every one

of these shows, were great multitudes, and adorned with pur­

ple garments, all over interwoven with gold; those that were

chosen for carrying these pompous shows having also about

them such magnificent ornaments as were both extraordinary

and surprising. Besides these, one might see that even the

great number of the captives was not unadorned, while the

variety that was in their garments and their fine texture con­

cealed from the sight the deformity of their bodies. But

what afforded the greatest surprise of all was, the structure

of the pageants that were borne along: for, indeed, he that

met them could not but be afraid that the bearers would not

be able firmly enough to support them, such was their magni­

tude : for many of them were so made that they were on three

IV. —27

