C. III.] TERRIBLE FAMINE. 263

concealed. Upon this the seditious came in presently, and

smelling the horrid scent of this food, they threatened her,

that they would cut her throat immediately, if she did not

show them what food she had gotten ready. She replied,

that " she had saved a very fine portion of it for them;" and

withal uncovered what was left of her son. Hereupon they

were seized with a horror and amazement of mind, and stood

astonished at the sight, when she said to them, — " This is

mine own son, and what hath been done was mine own doing.

Come, eat of this food, for I have eaten of it myself. Do

not you pretend to be either more tender than a woman, or

more compassionate than a mother: but if you be so scrupu­

lous, and do abominate this my sacrifice, as I have eaten the

one-half, let the rest be reserved for me also." After which

those men went out trembling, being never so much affrighted

at any thing as they were at this, and with some difficulty

they left the rest of that meat to the mother. Upon which

the whole city was full of this horrid action immediately: and

while every body laid this miserable case before their own

eyes, they trembled, as if this unheard-of action had been

done by themselves. So those that were thus distressed by

the famine were very desirous to die, and those already dead

were esteemed happy, because they had not lived long enough

either to hear or to see such miseries.

5. This sad instance was quickly told to the Romans, some

of which could not believe it, and others pitied the distress

which the Jews were under ; but there were many of them who

were hereby induced to a more bitter hatred than ordinary

against our nation. But for Caesar, he excused himself be­

fore God as to this matter, and said, " that he had proposed

peace and liberty to the Jews, as well as an oblivion of all

their former insolent practices ; but that they, instead of con­

cord, had chosen sedition ; instead of peace, war; and, before

satiety and abundance, a famine: that they had begun with

their own hands to burn down that temple which we have

preserved hitherto; and that, therefore, they deserved to cat

such food as this was; that, however, this horrid action of

eating an own child ought to be covered with the overthrow

