DISSERTATION II. 499

their gods: for even their sons and their daughters have they

burnt in the fire to their gods." Sec chap, xviii. 10; 2 Kings

xvii. 17.

" ' And Ahaz made his son to pass through the fire, accord­

ing to the abominations of the heathen, whom the Lord cast

out before the children of Israel."

"2 Moreover, Ahaz burnt incense in the valley of the son

of Hinnom, and burnt his children [his son in Josephus] in

the fire, after the abominations of the heathen, whom the Lord

had cast out before the children of Israel."

"3And the Sepharvites burnt their children in the fire to

Adrammelech and Anammelech, the gods of Sepharvaim," &c.

"4 And Josiah defiled Topheth, which is in the valley of the

children of Hinnom, that no one might make his son or his

daughter to pass through the fire unto Molech."

"5Yea, they sacrificed their sons and their daughters unto

demons ; and shed innocent blood, the blood of their sons and

of their daughters, whom they sacrificed unto the idols of Ca­

naan, and the land was polluted with blood." See Isaiah,

lvii. 5.

"6The children of Judah hath done evil in my sight, saith

the Lord; they have set their abominations in the house which

is called by my name, to pollute it: and they have built the

high places of Tophet, which is in the valley of the son of

Hinnom, to burn their sons and their daughters in the fire,

which I commanded them not, nor came it into my heart."

"" Thus saith the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, behold

I will bring evil upon this place, the which whosoever heareth

his ears shall tingle, because they have forsaken me, and have

estranged this place, and have burnt incense unto other gods,

whom neither they nor their fathers have known, nor the

kings of Judah, and have filled this place with the blood of

innocents. They have built also the high places of Baal, to

burn their sons with fire for burnt-offerings unto Baal, which

I commanded not, nor spake it, neither came it into my

mind," &c.

1 2 Kings xvi. 3. > 2 Chion. xxviii. 3. '2 Kings xvii. 31.

4 2 Kings xxii. 10. ' Psal. cvi. 37, 38. • Jer. vii. 30-32.

' Jer. xix. 3-5.

