178 JERUSALEM. [b. v,

its length were twenty cubits, and were equal to each other:

its upper buildings were more magnificent, and had greater

variety than the other towers had; for the king thought it

most proper for him to adorn that which was denominated

from his wife better than those denominated from men, as

those wore built stronger than this that bore his wife's name.

The entire height of this tower was fifty cubits.

4. Now, as these towers were so very tall, they appeared

much taller by the place on which they stood; for that very

old wall wherein they were was built upon a high wall, and

was itself a kind of elevation that was still thirty cubits

taller; over which were the towers situated, and thereby were

made much higher to appearance. The largeness also of the

stones was wonderful; for they were not made of common

small stones, nor of such larger ones only as men could carry,

but they were of white marble, cut out of the rock; each

stone was twenty cubits in length, and ten in breadth, and

five in depth. They were so exactly united to one another,

that each tower looked like one entire rock of stone, so grow­

ing naturally, and afterward cut by the hands of the artificers

into their present shape and corners ; so little, or not at all,

did their joints or connexion appear. Now, as these towers

were themselves on the north side of the wall, the king had a

palace inwardly thereto adjoined, which exceeds all my ability

to describe it; for it was so very curious as to want no cost

nor skill in its construction, but was entirely walled about to

the height of thirty cubits, and was adorned with towers at

equal distances, and with large bed-chambers, that could con­

tain beds for a hundred guests a-piece, in which the variety

of the stones is not to be expressed; for a large quantity of

those that were rare of that kind was collected together.

Their roofs were also wonderful, both for the length of the

beams and the splendor of their ornaments. The number of

the rooms was also very great, and the variety of the figures

that were about them was prodigious; their furniture was

complete, and the greatest part of the vessels that were put

in them was of silver and gold. There were besides many

porticoes, one beyond another, round about, and in each of

