76 8 I E G B 0 F G A M A L A . [B. IV.

away; for they were so unacquainted with the ways, and the

dust was so thick, that they wandered about without knowing

one another, and fell down dead among the crowd.

5. Those, therefore, that were able to find the ways out

of the city, retired. But now Vespasian always stayed among

those that were hard set; for he was deeply affected with

seeing the ruins of the city falling upon his army, and forgot

to take care of his own preservation. He went up gradually

towards the highest parts of the city be/ore he was aware, and

was left in the midst of dangers, having only a very few with

him ; for even his son Titus was not with him at that time,

having been then sent into Syria to Mucianus. However, he

thought it not safe to fly, nor did he esteem it a fit thing for him

to do; but calling to mind the actions he had done from his

youth, and recollecting his courage, as if he had been excited

by a divine fury, he covered himself and those that were with

him with their shields, and formed a testudo over both their

bodies and their armor, and bore up against the enemies'

attacks, who came running down from the top of the city;

and without showing any dread at the multitude of the men

or of their darts, he endured all, until the enemy took notice

of that divine courage that was within him, and remitted of

their attacks; and when they pressed less zealously upon him,

he retired, though without showing his back to them, till he

was gotten out of the walls of the city. Now a great number

of the Romans fell in this battle, among whom was Ebutius,

the decurion, a man who appeared not only in this engage­

ment, wherein he fell, but every where, and in former engage­

ments to be of the truest courage, and one that had done very

great mischief to the Jews. But there was a centurion whose

name was Gallus, who during this disorder being encompassed

about, he and ten other soldiers privately crept into the house

of a certain person, where he heard them talking at supper

what the people intended to do against the Romans, or about

themselves (for both the man himself and those with him wcro

Syrians.) So he got up in the night-time, and cut all their

throats, and escaped, together with his soldiers, to the Romans.

6. And now Vespasian comforted his army, which was much

