514 DISSERTATION III.

their power, and perform their courses, according to the

number seven.1

Chap. V.] These rites, by what manner soever they were

first begun, are supported by their antiquity.2 The rest of

their institutions are awkward,3 impure, and got ground by

their pravity: for every vile fellow, despising the rites of his

forefathers, brought thither their tribute and contributions,

by which means the Jewish commonwealth was augmented.

And because among themselves there is an unalterable fidelity

and kindness always ready at hand, but bitter enmity to all

others,4 they are a people separated from others in their food,

and in their beds; though they be the lewdest nation upon

earth, yet will they not corrupt foreign women,5 though noth足

ing be esteemed unlawful among themselves.0

They have ordained circumeision of the parts of generation,

that they may thereby be distinguished from other people:

the proselytes7 to their religion have the same usage.

They are taught nothing sooner than to despise the gods,

to renounce their country, and to have their parents, children,

and brethren in the utmost contempt:8 but still they take

care to increase and multiply, for it is esteemed utterly un足

lawful to kill any of their children.

They also look on the souls of those that die in battle, or

1 That the sun, moon, nnd stars, rule over the affairs of mankind, was a

heathen and not a Jewish notion. Neither Jews nor Christians were per足

mitted to deal in astrology, though Tacitus seems to have been deep in it.

2 This acknowledgment of the antiquity of Moses, and of his Jewish settle足

ment, was what the heathens cared not always to own.

3 What these pretended awkward and impure institutions were, Tacitus

does not inform us.

* Josephus shows tho contrary, as to the laws of Moses, cor.tr. Apion,  
book ii. sect. 28.

6 A high, and, I doubt, a false commendation of the Jews.

* An entirely false character, and contrary to their many laws against un-  
cleanness. See Josephus, Antiq. b. iii. chap. xi. sect. 12.

' The proselytes of justice only, not the proselytes of the gates.

s How does this agree with that unalterable fidelity and kindness which

Tacitus told us the Jews had towards one another? unless he only means that

they preferred the divine commands before their nearest relations, which is

the highest degree of Jewish and Christian piety.

