V. I.] AGAINST APION. 371

also called captives in their sacred books." And this account

of his is the truth; for feeding of sheep was the employment'

of our forefathers in the most ancient ages, and as they led

such a wandering life in feeding sheep, they were called shep­

herds. Nor was it without reason that they were called cap­

tives by the Egyptians, since one of our ancestors, Joseph,

told the king of Egypt that he was a captive,2 and afterward

sent for his brethren into Egypt by the king's permission.

But as for these matters I shall make a more exact inquiry

about them elsewhere.3

15. But now I shall produce the Egyptians as witnesses to

the antiquity of our nation. I shall, therefore, here bring in

Manetho again, and what he writes as to the order of the

times in this case: and thus he speaks.—"When this people

or shepherds were gone out of Egypt to Jerusalem, Tethmo-

sis the king of Egypt who drove them out reigned afterward

twenty-five years and four months, and then died; after him

his son Chebron took the kingdom for thirteen years; after

whom came Amenophis, for twenty years and seven months;

then came his sister Amesses, for twenty-one years and nine

months : after her came Mephres, for twelve years and nine

months; after her was Mephramuthosis, for twenty-five years

and ten months; after him was Thmosis, for nine years and

eight months; after him came Amenophis, for thirty years

and ten months; after him came Orus, for thirty-six years

and five months; then came his daughter Acencheres, for

twelve years and one month; then was her brother Rathotis,

for nine years; then was Acencheres, for twelve years and

five months; then came another Acencheres, for twelve years

and three months; after him Armais, for four years and one

month; after him was Ramesses, for one year and four

months ; after him came Armesses Miammoun, for sixty years

and two months; after him Amenophis, for nineteen years

iGen. xlvi. 32,.34; xlvii, 3, 4.

* In our copies of the book of Genesis and of Joscphus, this Joseph never  
calls himself a captive, when ho was with the king of Egypt, though he does

call himself a servaat, a slave, or a captive, many times in tho Testament of

the twelve Patriarchs, under Joseph, sect. I, 11, 13, 14, 15, 16.

s This is now wanting.

