410 FLAVIUSJOSEPHUS [B. II.

As for the number of those that were expelled out of Egypt,

he hath contrived to have the very same number with Lysi-

machus, and says they were a hundred and ten thousand. He

then assigns a certain wonderful and plausible occasion for

the name of Sabbath ; for he says, that " when the Jews had

travelled a six days journey, they had buboes in their groins;

and that on this account it was that they rested on the

seventh day, as having gotten safely to that country which is

now called Judea ; that then they preserved the language of

the Egyptians, and called that day the Sabbath; for that

malady of buboes in their groins was named Sabbatosis by the

Egyptians." And would not a man now laugh at this fellow's

trifling, or rather hate his impudence in writing thus ? We

must, it seems, tafcc it for granted that all these hundred and

ten thousand men must have these buboes. But, for certain,

if those men had been blind and lame, and had all sorts of

distempers upon them, as Apion says they had, they could

not have gone one single day's journey: but if they had all

been able to travel over a large desert, and besides that to

fight and conquer those that oppose them, they had not all

of them had buboes on their groins after the sixth day was

over; for no such distemper comes naturally and of necessity

upon those that travel; but still, when there are many ten

thousands in a camp together, they constantly marched a

settled space [in a day]. Nor is it at all probable that such

a thing should happen by chance : this would be prodigiously

absurd to be supposed. However, our admirable author

Apion had before told us, that " they came to Judea in six

days time;" and again, that " Moses went up to a mountain

that lay between Egypt and Arabia, which was called Sinai,

and was concealed there forty days, and that when he came

down from thence he gave laws to the Jews." But, then,

how was it possible for them to tarry forty days in a desert

place, where there was no water, and at the same time to pass

all over the country between that and Judea in the six days?

And as for this grammatical translation of the word Sabbath,

it either contains an instance of his great impudence or gross

ignorance; for the words Sabbo and Sabbath are widely dif­

