B. II.] AGAINST APION. 417

drian Jews is well known; for this distribution of wheat was

no otherwise omitted with regard to the Jews than it was with

regard to the other inhabitants of Alexandria. But they still

were desirous to preserve what the kings had formerly in­

trusted to their care, I mean the custody of the river; nor

did those kings think them unworthy of having the entire

custody thereof upon all occasions.

6. But, besides this Apion objects to us thus. —" If tho

Jews," says he, "be citizens of Alexandria, why do they not

worship the same gods with the Alexandrians ? ' To which

I give this answer : — Since you arc yourselves Egyptians,

why do you fight it out one against another, and have impla­

cable wars about your religion ? At this rate, we must not

call you all Egyptians, nor, indeed, in general men, because

you breed up with great care beasts of a nature quite contrary

to that of men, although the nature of all men seems to be

one and the same. Now, if there be such differences in

opinion among your Egyptians, why are you surprised that

those who came to Alexandria from another country, and had

original laws of their own before, should persevere in the ob­

servance of those laws ? But still he charges us with being

the authors of sedition : which accusation, if it be a just one,

why is it not laid against us all, since we are known to be all

of one mind ? Moreover, those that search into such matters

will soon discover, that the authors of sedition have been such

citizens of Alexandria as Apion is; for while they were the

Grecians and Macedonians who were in possession of this

city, there was no sedition raised against us, and we were

permitted to observe our ancient solemnities; but when the

number of the Egyptians therein came to be considerable, the

times grew confused, and then these seditions brake out still

more and more, while our people continued uncorrupted.

These Egyptians, therefore, were the authors of these troubles,

who not having the constancy of Macedonians, nor the pru­

dence of Grecians, indulged all of them the evil manners of

Egyptians, and continued their ancient hatred against us;

for what is here so presumptuously charged upon us, is owing

to the differences that are amongst themselves; while imny

