C.X.] SIEGE OF TARlCIIK*. 61

obliging to the Romans, but to bring the authors of this re­

volt to due punishment, who had hitherto so watched them,

that though they were zealous to give them security of their

right hands for a long time, yet could they not accomplish

the same. With these supplications the general complied,

although he were very angry at the whole city about the carry­

ing off his horses, and this because he saw that Agrippa was

under a great concern for them. So when Vespasian and

Agrippa had accepted of their right hands by way of secu­

rity, Jesus and his party thought it not safe for them to con­

tinue at Tiberias, so they ran away to Taricheae. The next

day Vespasian sent Trajan before with some horsemen to tho

citadel, to make trial of the multitude, whether they were all

disposed for peace ; and as soon as he knew that the people

were of the same mind with the petitioner, he took his army,

and went to the city; upon which the citizens opened to him

their gates, and met him with acclamations of joy, and called

him their savior and benefactor. But as the army was a great

while in getting in at the gates, they were so narrow, Vespa-

Bian commanded the south wall to be broken down, and so

made a broad passage for their entrance. However, he charged

them to abstain from rapine and injustice, in order to gratify

the king, and on his account spared the rest of the wall, while

the king undertook for them that they should continue [faith­

ful to the Romans] for the time to come. And thus did ho

restore this, city to a quiet state, after it had been grievously

afflicted by the sedition.

CHAPTER X.

HOW TARICHEAE WAS TAKEN. A DESCRIPTION OF THE RIVER

JORDAN AND OF THE COUNTRY OF GENNESARETH.

1. And now Vespasian pitched his camp between this city

and Taricheae, but fortified his camp more strongly, as sus­

pecting that he should be forced to stay there, and have a

long war; for all the innovators had gotten together at Tari-

IV. — 6

