B. II.] AGAINST APION. 411

ferent from one another; for the word Sabbath in the Jewish

language denotes rest from all sorts of work; hut the word

Sabbo, as he affirms, denotes among the Egyptians the malady

of a bubo in the groin.

3. This is that novel account which the Egyptian Apion

gives us concerning the Jews' departure out of Egypt, and is

no hetter than a contrivance of his own. But why should

we wonder at the lies he tells us about our forefathers, when

he affirms them to be of Egyptian original, when he lies also

about himself? for although he was born at Oasis in Egypt,

he pretends to be, as a man may say, the top man of all the

Egyptians; yet does he forswear his real country and pro­

genitors, and, by falsely pretending to be born at Alexandria,

cannot deny the pravity of his family; for you see how justly

he calls those Egyptians whom he hates and endeavors to

reproach; for had he not deemed Egyptians to be a name of

great reproach, he would not have avoided the name of an

Egyptian himself; as we know that those who brag of their

own countries value themselves upon the denomination they

acquire thereby, and reprove such as unjustly lay claim

thereto. As for the Egyptians' claim to be of our kindred,

they do it on one of the following accounts : — I mean either

as they value themselves upon it, and pretend to bear that

relation to us; or else as they would draw us in to be par­

takers of their own infamy. But this fine fellow Apion seems

to broach this reproachful appellation against us, [that we

were originally Egyptians,] in order to bestow it on the

Alexandrians as a reward for the privilege they had given

him of being a fellow-citizen with them : he also is apprised

of the ill-will the Alexandrians bear to those Jews who are

their fellow-citizens, and so proposes to himself to reproach

them, although he must thereby include all the other Egyp­

tians also; while in both cases he is no better than an

impudent liar.

4. But let us now see what those heavy and wicked crimes

are which Apion charges upon the Alexandrian Jews. " They

came," says he, "out of Syria, and inhabited near the tem­

pestuous sea, and were in the neighborhood of the dashing

