44 VESPASIAN. [B. III.

males now remaining besides infants, which, with the women,

were carried as slaves into captivity: so that the number of

the slain both now in the city and at the former fight was

fifteen thousand, and the captives were two thousand one

hundred and thirty. This calamity befell the Galileans on

the twenty-fifth day of the month Desius [Sivan.]

32. Nor did the Samaritans escape their share of misfor­

tunes at this time; for they assembled themselves together

upon the mountain called Gerizzim, which is with them a

holy mountain, and there they remained : which collection of

theirs, as well as the courageous minds they showed, could

not but threaten somewhat of war; nor were they rendered

wiser by the miseries that had come upon their neighboring

cities. They also, notwithstanding the great success the Ro­

mans had, marched on in an unreasonable manner, depending

on their own weakness, and were disposed for any tumult

upon its first appearance. Vespasian, therefore, thought it

best to prevent their motions, and to cut off the foundation

of their attempts; for although all Samaria had ever garrisons

settled among them, yet did the number of those that were

come to Mount Gerizzim, and their conspiracy together, give

ground for fear what they would be at: he, therefore, sent

thither Cerealis, the commander of the fifth legion, with six

hundred horsemen and three thousand footmen, who did not

think it safe to go up the mountain and give them battle, be­

cause many of the enemy were on the higher part of the

ground ; so he encompassed all the lower part of the mountain

with his army, and watched them all that day. Now it hap­

pened that tho Samaritans, who were now destitute of water,

were inflamed with a violent heat (for it was summer-time,

and the multitude had not provided themselves with necessa­

ries,) insomuch that some of them died that very day with

heat, while others of them preferred slavery before such a

death as that was, and fled to the Romans ; by whom Cerealis

understood that those which still stayed there were very much

broken by their misfortunes. So he went up tho mountain,

and having placed his forces round about the enemy, he, in

the first place, exhorted them to take the security of his right

