500 DISSERTATION II.

passage, he says, that " Isaac was fully persuaded of what

ho knew was to come;" and, therefore, " cheerfully yielded

himself up for a sacrifice." Nor, indeed, does that name of

this place, Jehovah Jireh, which continued till the days of

Moses, and signified, God will see, or, rather, God will pro­

vide, seem to be given it by Abraham on any other account,

than that God would there, in the fulness of time, "provide

himself a lamb [that lamb of God, which was to take away

the sins of the world]1 for a burnt-offering."

But if, now after all, it be objected, that how peculiar and

how typical soever the circumstances of Abraham and Isaac

might be in themselves, of which the heathens about them

could have little notion, yet such a divine command to Abra­

ham for slaying his beloved son Isaac must, however, be of

very ill example to the Gentile world, and that it probably

did cither first occasion, or, at least, greatly encourage their

wicked practices, in offering their children for sacrifices to

their idols, I answer by the next consideration.

18. That this objection is so far from truth, that God's

public and miraculous prohibition of the execution of this

command to Abraham, (which command itself the Gentiles

would not then at all be surprised at, because it was so like

to their own usual practices), as well as God's substitution

of a vicarious oblation, seems to have been the very occasion

of the immediate oblation of those impious sacrifices by

Tethmosis, or Amosis, among the neighboring Egyptians,

and of the substitution of more inoffensive ones there instead

of them. Take the account of this abolition, which we shall

presently prove, was about the time of Abraham's offering

up his son Isaac, as it is preserved by Porphyry, from

Manetho, the famous Egyptian historian and chronologer,

which is also cited from Porphyry by Eusebius and Theodorit.

—"Amosis,"2 says Porphyry, "abolished the law for slay­

ing of men in IIeliopolis of Egypt, as Manetho bears wit­

ness, in his book of Antiquity and Piety. They were sacri­

ficed to Juno, and were examined, as were the pure calves,

'John, i. 29. » Marsh, p. 301.

