286 SIEGE OF THE UPPER CITY. [B. VI.

himself against John, when they were at war with one

another.

2. It was at this time that the commanders of the Idumeans

got together privately, and took counsel about surrendering

up themselves to the Romans. Accordingly, they sent five

men to Titus, and entreated him to give them his right hand

for their security. So Titus thinking that the tyrants would

yield, if the Idumeans, upon whom a great part of the war

depended, were once withdrawn from them, after some re-

luctancy and delay complied with them, and gave them secu­

rity for their lives, and sent the five men back. But as these

Idumeans were preparing to march out, Simon perceived it,

and immediately slew the five men that had gone to Titus,

and took their commanders, and put them in prison, of whom

the most eminent was Jacob, the son of Sosas; but as for the

multitude of the Idumeans, who did not at all know what to

do, now their commanders were taken from them, he had

them watched, and secured the walls by a more numerous

garrison. Yet could not that garrison resist those that were

deserting; for although a great number of them were slain,

yet were the deserters many more in number. These were

all received by the Romans, because Titus himself grew negli­

gent as to his former orders for killing them, and because

the very soldiers grew weary of killing them, and because

they hoped to get some money by sparing them; for they

left only the populace, and sold1 the rest of the multitude,

with their wives and children, and every one of them for a

very low price, and that because such as were sold were very

many and the buyers very few: and although Titus had made

proclamation beforehand, that no deserter should come alone

1 Tbis innumerable multitude of Jews that were sold by tho Romans, were

an eminent completion of God's ancient threatening by Moses, that, if they

apostatized from the obedience to his laws, they should bo sold unto their

enemiss for bondmen and bondwomen, Deut. xxviii. 68. See more especially

the note on ch ix. sect. 2. But one thing here is peculiarly remarkable, that

Moses adds, Though they should be sold for slaves, yet no maa should buy

them f i. e. cither they should have none to redeem them from this sale into

slavery; or, rather, that the slaves to be sold should be more than were the

purchasers for them, and so they should be sold for little or nothing; which

is what Josephus here affirms to have been the case at this time.

