CXI.] JEWS CRUCIFIED. 217

the temple which they seemed to think came too slowly; and,

indeed, when they saw that temple burning from the upper

city, they were neither troubled at it, nor did they shed any

tears on that account, while yet these passions were discovered

among the Romans themselves. "Which circumstances we shall

speak of hereafter in their proper place, when we come to treat

of such matters.

CHAPTER XI.

HOW THE JEWS WERE CRUCIFIED BEFORE THE WALLS OF THE

CITY. CONCERNING ANTIOCIIUS EPIPHANES ; AND HOW THE

JEWS OVERTHREW THE BANKS THAT HAD BEEN RAISED BY

THE ROMANS.

§ 1. So now Titus's banks were advanced a great way, not­

withstanding his soldiers had been very much distressed from

the wall. He then sent a party of horsemen, and ordered

they should lay ambushes for those that went out into the

valleys to gather food. Some of these were, indeed, fighting-

men, who were not contented with what they got by rapine;

but the greater part of them were poor people, who were de­

terred from deserting by the concern they were under for their

own relations ; for they could not hope to escape away, to­

gether with their wives and children, without the knowledge

of the seditious; nor could they think of leaving these rela­

tions to be slain by the robbers on their account; nay, the

severity of the famine made them bold in thus going out: so

nothing remained but that when they were concealed from the

robbers, they should be taken by the enemy ; and when they

were going to be taken, they were forced to defend themselves

for fear of being punished, as after they had fought, they

thought it too late to make any supplications for mercy: so

they were first whipped, and then tormented with all sorts

of tortures, before they died, and were then crucified1 before

'Reland very properly takes notice here, how justly this judgment came

upon the Jews, wheu they were crucified in such multitudes together, that

the Romans wanted room for the crosses, and crosses for the bodies of those

Jews, since they had brought this judgment on themselves by the crucifixion

of their Messiah.

IV. —19

