254 DESPERATE RESISTANCE [O. VI.

seem to one another to be enemies: for every one of them

received those of their own men that came back in the dark

as Romans, and made an assault upon them ; so that moro

of them were wounded by their own men than by the enemy,

till, upon the coming on of the day, the nature of the fight

was discerned by the eye afterward. Then did they stand

in battle-array in distinct bodies, and cast their darts regularly,

and regularly defended themselves. Nor did either side yield

or grow weary. The Romans contended with each other who

should fight the most strenuously, both single men and entire

regiments, as being under the eye of Titus: and every one

concluded that this day would begin his promotion, if he

fought bravely. What were the great encouragements of the

Jews to act vigorously, were their fear for themselves and

for the temple, and the presence of their tyrant, who exhorted

some, and beat and threatened others, to act courageously.

Now, it so happened that this fight was for the most part a

stationary one, wherein the soldiers went on and came back

in a short time and suddenly: for there was no long space

of ground for either of their flights or pursuits. But still

there was a tumultuous noise among the Romans from the

tower of Antonia, who loudly cried out upon all occasions to

their own men to press on courageously, when they were too

hard for the Jews, and to stay, when they were retiring back­

ward ; so that here was a kind of theatre of war; for what

was done in this fight could not bo concealed either from

Titus or from those that were about him. At length it ap­

peared that this fight, which began at the ninth hour of the

night, was not over till past the fifth hour of the day, and

that in the same place where the battle began neither party

could say they had made the other to retire; but both the

armies left the victory almost in uncertainty between them ;

wherein those that signalized themselves on the Roman side

were a great many, but on the Jewish side, and of those that

were with Simon, Judas the son of Merto, and Simon the son

of Josias ; of the Idumeans, James and Simon, the latter of

whom was the son of Cathlas, and James was the son of

Sosas; of those that were with John, Gyptheus and Alexas,

and of the zealots Simon the son of Jairus.

