C. VIII.] MASADA AND THE SICARII. 331

hill, which was of a fat soil and better mould than any valley,

for agriculture, that such as committed themselves to this

fortress for their preservation might not even there be quite

destitute of food, in case they should ever be in want of it

from abroad. Moreover, he built a palace therein at the

western ascent: it was within and beneath the walls of the

citadel, but inclined to its north side. Now the wall of this

palace was very high and strong, and had at its four corners

towers sixty cubits high. The furniture also of the edifices,

and of the cloisters, and of the baths, was of great variety

and very costly;. and these buildings were supported by

pillars of single stones on every side: the walls also and the

floors of the edifices were paved with stones of several colors.

He also had cut many and great pits, as reservoirs for water,

out of the rocks, at every one of the places that were in­

habited, both above and round about the palace and before

the wall; and by this contrivance he endeavored to have

water for several uses, as if there had been fountains there.

Here was also a road digged from the palace, and leading to

the very top of the mountain, which yet could not be seen by

such as were without [the walls;] nor, indeed, could enemies

easily make use of the plain roads; for the road on the east

side, as we have already taken notice, could not be walked

upon by reason of its nature; and for the western road, he

built a large tower at its narrowest place, at no less a distance

from the top of the hill than a thousand cubits; which tower

could not possibly be passed by, nor could it be easily taken ;

nor, indeed, could those that walked along it, without any

fear, such was its contrivance, easily get to the end of it:

and after such a manner was this citadel fortified both by

nature and by the hands of men, in order to frustrate the

attacks of enemies.

4. As for the furniture that was within this fortress, it was

still more wonderful on account of its splendor and long con­

tinuance; for here was laid up corn in large quantities, and

such as would subsist men for a long time; hero was also

wine and oil in abundance, with all kinds of pulse and dates

heaped up together: all which Eleazar found there when he

