424 FLAVIUSJOSEPHUS [b. II.

priests succeed in the performance of their sacrifices, and

assemble together at midday, and receive the keys of the

temple, and the vessels by tale, without any thing relating to

food or drink being carried into the temple; nay, we are not

allowed to offer such things at the altar, excepting what is

prepared for the sacrifices.

9. What then, can we say of Apion, but that he examined

nothing that concerned these things, while still he uttered in­

credible words about them ? but it is a great shame for a

grammarian not to be able to write true history. Now, if he

knew the purity of our temple, he hath entirely omitted to

take notice of it: but he forges a story about the siezing of a

Grecian, about ineffable food, and the most delicious prepara­

tion of dainties; and pretends that strangers could go into

a place whercinto the noblest men among the Jews are not

allowed to enter, unless they be priests. This, therefore, is

the utmost degree of impiety, and a voluntary lie, in order to

the delusion of those who will not examine into the truth of

matters: whereas such unspeakable mischiefs as are above

related, have been occasioned by such calumnies that are

raised upon us.

10. Nay, this miracle of piety derides us further and adds

the following pretended facts to his former fable ; for he says,

that this man related how, " while the Jews were once in a

long war with the Idumeans, there came a man out of one of

the cities of the Idumeans, who there had worshiped Apollo.

This man, whose name is said to have been Zabitlus, came to

the Jews, and promised that he would deliver Apollo, the god

of Dora, into their hands, and that he would come to our

temple, if they would all come up with him, and bring the

whole multitude of the Jews with them: that Zabidus made

him a certain wooden instrument, and put it round about

him, and set three rows of lamps therein, and walked after

such a manner that he appeared to those that stood a great

way off him to be a kiud of star walking upon the earth : that

the Jews were terribly frightened at so surprising an appear­

ance, and stood very quiet at a distance; and that Zabidus,

while they continued so very quiet, went into the holy house,

