C. IV.] TO THE JEWS. 281

sent embassies, and congratulated our access to the govern­

ment, then did you Jews show yourselves to be our enemies.

You sent embassies to those of your nation that are beyond

Euphrates to assist you in your raising disturbances; new

walls were built by you round your city, seditions arose, and

one tyrant contended against another, and a civil war broke

out among you; such, indeed, as became none but so wicked

a people as you are. I then came to this city, as unwillingly

sent by my father, and received melancholy injunctions from

him. When I heard that the people were disposed to peace,

I rejoiced at it: I exhorted you to leave off these proceedings,

before I began this war : I spared you, even when you had

fought against me a great while: I gave my right hand as

security to the deserters: I observed what I had promised

faithfully. When they fled to me, I had compassion on many

of those I had taken captive : I tortured those that were eager

for war, in order to restrain them. It was unwillingly that

I brought my engines of war against your walls: I always

prohibited my soldiers, when they were set upon your

slaughter, from their severity against you. After every

victory I persuaded you to peace, as though I had been my­

self conquered. When I came near your temple, I again de­

parted from the laws of war, and exhorted you to spare your

own sanctuary, and to preserve your holy house to yourselves.

I allowed you a quiet exit out of it, and security for your

preservation; nay, if you had a mind, I gave you leavo to

fight in another place. Yet have you still despised every

one of my proposals, and have set fire to your holy house

with your own hands. And now, vile wretches, do you desire

to treat with me by word of mouth ? to what purpose is it that

you would save such a holy house as this was, which is now

destroyed ? what preservation can you now desire after the

destruction of your temple ? Yet do you stand still at this

very time in your armor ; nor can you bring yourselves so

much as to pretend to be supplicants, even in this your utmost

extremity. O miserable creatures ! what is it you depend on ?

Are not your people dead ? is not your holy house gone ? is

not your city in my power ? and are not your own very lives

24*

