C. IX.] THE SIEGE. 205

"To spare themselves, to spare their country and their tem­

ple, and not to he more obdurate in these cases than foreign­

ers themselves: for that the Romans, who had no relation to

those things, had a reverence for their sacred rites and places,

although they belonged to their enemies, and had till now

kept their hands off from meddling with them, while such as

were brought up under them, and, if they be preserved, will

be the only people that will reap the benefit of them, hurry

on to have them destroyed. That certainly they have seen

their strongest walls demolished, and that the wall still re­

maining was weaker than those that were already taken.

That they must know the Roman power was invincible, and

that they had been used to serve them; for that in case it be

allowed a right thing to fight for liberty, that ought to have

been done at first; but for them that have once fallen under

the power of the Romans, and have now submitted to them

for so many years, to pretend to shake off that yoke after­

ward, was the work of such as had a mind to die miserably,

not of such as were lovers of liberty. Besides, men may well

enough grudge at the dishonor of owning ignoble masters

over them, but ought not to do so to those who have all things

under their command: for what part of the world is there that

hath escaped the Romans, unless it be such as are of no use

for violent heat or for violent cold ? And evident it is that

fortune is on all hands gone over to them ; and that God,

when he had gone round the nations with this dominion, is

now settled in Italy. That, moreover, it is a strong and fixed

law, even among brute beasts as well as among men, to yield

to those that are too strong for them, and to suffer those to

have the dominion who are too hard for the rest in w:ir. For

which reason it was that their forefathers, who were far supe­

rior to them both in their souls and bodies and other advan­

tages, did yet submit to the Komans, which they would not

have suffered, had they not known that God was with them.

As for themselves, what can they depend on in this their

opposition, when the greatest part of their city is already

taken ? and when those that are within it are under greater

miseries than if they were taken, although their walls be still

IV. —18

