B. I.] AGAINST APION. 387

says, that " the land in which the Jews inhabit contains three

millions of arourae,1 and is generally of a most excellent and

most fruitful soil; nor is Judea itself of lesser dimensions."

The same man describes our city Jerusalem also itself as of a

most excellent structure, and very large, and inhabited from

the most ancient times. He also discourses of the multitude

of men in it, and of the construction of our temple, after the

following manner. — " There are many strong places and vil­

lages," says he, " in the country of Judea, but one strong city

there is, about fifty furlongs in circumference, which is in­

habited by a hundred and twenty thousand men, or thereabout:'

they call it Jerusalem. There is about the middle of the city

a wall of stone, whose length is five hundred feet, and breadth

a hundred cubits, with double cloisters; wherein there is a

square altar, not made of hewn stone, but composed of white

stones gathered together, having each side twenty cubits long,

and its altitude ten cubits. Hard by it is a large edifice,

wherein there is an altar and a candlestick, both of gold,

1 This manner of arouno or Egyptian acres, 3,000,000, each aroura con­

taining a square of 100 Egyptian cubits, (being about three quarters of an

English acre, and just twice tho arca of the court of the Jewish tabernacle,)

as contained in tho country of Judea, will be about one-third of the entire

number of arourae in the whole land of Judea, supposing it 160 measured

miles long, and 70 such miles broad; which estimation for the fruitful parts

of it, as, perhaps, here in Hecateus, is not, therefore, very wide from tho

truth. The 50 furlongs in compass for the city Jerusalem presently, are not

very wide from the truth also, as Josephus himself describes it, who, Of the

War, B. v. ch. iv. sect. 3, makes its wall 33 furlongs, besides the suburbs

and gardens; nay, he says, B. v. ch. xii. sect. 2, that Titus's wall about it

at some small distance after the gardens and suburbs were destroyed, was

not less than 39 furlongs. Nor, perhaps, wero its constant inhabitants in tho

days of Hecateus many more than these 120,000, because room was always

to be left for vastly greater numbers which came up at the three great fes­

tivals ; to say nothing of the probable increase in their number between the

days of Hecateus and Josephus, which was at least 300 years. But see n

more authentic account of some of these measures in my description of the

Jewish temples. However, we are not to expect that such heathens as Cho-

rilus or Heca'.eus, or the rest that arc cited by Josephus and Eusebius, could

avoid making many mistakes in the Jewish history, while yet they strongly

confirm the same history in the general, and are most valuable attestations

to those more authentic accounts we have in the Scriptures and Josephus

concerning them.

