B. II.] AGAINST APION. 427

on account, as they pretend, that the gods fled into their

country, and saved themselves by heing changed into the

shapes of wild beasts ! Whereas these Egyptians' are the

very people that appear to have never, in all the past ages,

had one day of freedom, no not so much as from their own

lords. For I will not reproach them with relating the

manner how the Persians used them, and this not once only,

but many times, when they laid their cities waste, demolished

their temples, and cut the throats of those animals whom

they esteemed to be gods; for it is not reasonable to imitate

the clownish ignorance of Apion, who hath no regard to the

misfortunes of the Athenians or of the Lacedemonians, the

latter of which were styled by all men the moit courageous,

and the former the most religious of the Grecians. I say

nothing of such kings as have been famous for piety, par­

ticularly of one of them whose name was Cresas, nor what

calamities he met with in his life; I say nothing of the

citadel of Athens, of the temple at Ephesus, of that at

Delphi, nor of ten thousand others which have been burnt

down, while nobody cast reproaches on those that were the

sufferers, but on those that were the actors therein. But

now we have met with Apion, an accuser of our nation,

though one that still forgets the miseries of his own people,

the Egyptians; but it is that Sesostris, who was once so

celebrated a king of Egypt, that hath blinded him: now we

will not brag of our kings, David and Solomon, though they

conquered many nations ; accordingly, we will let them alone.

1 This notorious disgrace belonging peculiarly to the people of Egypt,

ever since the times of the olil prophets of the Jews, noted both section 4

already, and here, may be confirmed by the testimony of Isidorus, an

Egyptian of Pelusium, Epist. lib. i. Ep. 489. And this is a rcmarkablo

completion of the ancient prediction of Ood, by Ezek. xxix. 14, 15, — '- That

the Egyptians should be a base kingdom, tho basest of tho kingdoms;" and

that it " should not exalt itself any more abovo the nations." The truth of

which still farther appears by tho present observation of Joscphus, that

these Egyptians had never, in all the past ages since Sesostris, had one day

of liberty, no not so much as to have been free from despotic power under

any of the monarchs to that day. And all this has been found equally true

in the latter ages, under the Romans, Saracens, Mamraalukes, and Turks,

from the days of Josephus to the present r.go also.

