C. VI.] LUCILIUS BASSUS. 321

he began to think of using a stratagem against the enemy,

and was desirous to aggravate their grief, in order to prevail

with them to surrender the city for the preservation of that

man. Nor did he fail of his hope; for he commanded them

to set up a cross, as if he were just going to hang Eleazar

upon it immediately : the sight of this occasioned a sore grief

among those that were in the citadel, and they groaned vehe­

mently, and cried out, that they could not bear to see him

thus destroyed. Whereupon Eleazar besought them not to

disregard him, now he was going to suffer a most miserable

death, and exhorted them to save themselves, by yielding to

the Roman power and good fortune, since all other people

were now conquered by them. These men were greatly

moved with what he said, there being also many within the

city that interceded for him, because he was of an eminent

and very numerous family; so they now yielded to their

passion of commiseration, contrary to their usual custom.

Accordingly, they sent out immediately certain messengers,

and treated with the Romans, in order to a surrender of the

citadel to them, and desired that they might be permitted to

go away, and take Eleazar along with them. Then did the

Romans and their general accept of these terms ; while that

multitude of strangers that were in the lower part of the city,

hearing of the agreement that was made by the Jews for

themselves alone, was resolved to fly away privately in the

night-time; but as soon as they had opened their gates, those

that had come to terms with Bassus told him of it; whether

it were that they envied the others' deliverance, or whether

it were done out of fear lest an occasion should be taken

against them upon their escape, is uncertain. The most

courageous, therefore, of those men that went out prevented

the enemy, and got away, and fled for it; but for those men

that were caught within, they were slain, to the number of

one thousand seven hundred, as were the women and the

children made slaves. But as Bassus thought he must per­

form the covenant he had made with those that had surren­

dered the citadel, he let them go, and restored Eleazar to

them.

