DISSERTATION II. 505

begotten son, what was to happen long afterward to the great

son and seed of Abraham, the Messiah, the beloved and the

" only begotten of the Father, whose day Abraham saw by

faith beforehand, and rejoiced to see it," l viz., that he, "by

the determinate counsel and foreknowledge of God should be

crucified, and slain"2 as a sacrifice, and should be raised

again the third day, and this at Jerusalem also; and that,

in the mean time, God would accept of the sacrifices of rams,

and the like animals, at the same city Jerusalem, that one

cannot easily avoid the application. This seems the reason

why Abraham was obliged to go to the land of Moriah, or

Jerusalem; and why it is noted, that it was the third day3

.that he came to the place, which implies that the return back,

after the slaying of the sacrifice, would naturally be the third

day also ; and why this sacrifice was not Ishmael the son of

the flesh only, but Isaac the son by promise, the beloved son

of Abraham, and why Isaac was styled the only son, or only

begotten son* of Abraham, though he had Ishmael besides;

and why Isaac himself was to bear the wood5 on which he

was to be sacrificed ; and why the place was no other than

the land of Moriah,6 or vision, i. e., most probable a place

where the Shecinah or Messiah had been seen, and God by

him worshipped, even before the days of Abraham, and where

lately lived, and perhaps now lived, Melehisedeck, the grand

type of the Messiah (who might then possibly be present at

the sacrifice,) and why this sacrifice was to be offered either

on the mountain called afterward distinctly Moriah, where

the temple stood, and where all the Mosaic sacrifices were

' afterward to be offered, as Josephus 7 and the generality sup­

pose, or, perhaps, as others suppose, that where the Messiah

himself was to be offered, its neighbor mount Calvary. This

seems also the reason why the ram was substituted as a

vicarious sacrifice instead of Isaac. These circumstances

seem to me very peculiar and extraordinary, and to render

the present hypothesis extremely probable. Nor, perhaps,

did St. Clement mean any thing else, when, in his forecited

iJohn, viii. 56. 1 Acts, ii. 23. 3Gen. xxii. 2, 4. * Heb. xi. 17.

5 Gen. xxii. 6. 'John, xix. 17. ' Antiq. B. i. cap. xiii. sect. 2.

IV. —43

