206 TITUS RESUMES [b. V.

standing ? For that the Romans are not unacquainted with

that famine which is in the city, whereby the people arc al­

ready consumed, and the fighting-men will in a little time be

so too; for although the Romans should leave off the siege,

and not fall upon the city with their swords in their hands,

yet was there an insuperable war that beset them within, and

was augmented every hour; unless they were able to wage

war with famine, and fight against it, or could alone conquer

their natural appetites." He added this farther, — "How

right a thing it was to change their conduct, before their ca­

lamities were become incurable, and to have recourse to such

advice as might preserve them while opportunity was offering

them for so doing: for that the Romans would not be mindful

of their past actions to their disadvantage, unless they perse­

vered in their insolent behavior to the end; because they

were naturally mild in their conquests, and preferred what

was profitable before what their passions dictated to them ;

which profit of theirs lay not in leaving the city empty of

inhabitants nor the country a desert: on which account Caesar

did now offer them his right hand for their security : whereas,

if he took the city by force, he would not save any of them,

and this especially if they rejected bis offers in these their

utmost distresses ; for the walls that were already taken could

not but assure them that the third wall would quickly be taken

also. And although their fortifications should prove too

strong for the Romans to break through them, yet would the

famine fight for the Romans against them."

4. While Josephus was making this exhortation to the

Jews, many of them jested upon him from the wall, and many

reproached him; nay, some threw their darts at him; but

when he could not himself persuade them by such open good

advice, he betook himself to the histories belonging to their

own nation, and cried out aloud, — " O miserable creatures !

are you so unmindful of those that used to assist you, that

you will fight by your weapons and by your hands against

the Romans? when did we ever conquer any other nation by

such means ? and when was it that God, who is the Creator

of the Jewish people, did not avenge them when they had

