.56 VESPASIAN. [B. III.

CHAPTER IX.

HOW JOPPA WAS TAKEN, AND TIBERIAS DELIVERED UP.

§ 1. Now Vespasian returned to Ptolemais on the fourth

day of the month Panemus [Tamuz,] and from thence he

came to Caesarea, which lay by the sea-side. This was a

very great city of Judea, and for the greatest part inhabited

by Greeks; the citizens here received both the Roman army

and its general with all sorts of acclamations and rejoicings,

and this partly out of the good-will they bore to the Romans,

but principally out of the hatred they bore to those that

were conquered by them ; on which account they came clamor­

ing against Josephus in crowds, and desired he might be put

to death. But Vespasian passed over this petition concern­

ing him, as offered by the injudicious multitude, with a bare

silence. Two of the legions also he placed at Caesarea, that

they might there take their winter-quarters, as perceiving the

city very fit for such a purpose; but he placed the tenth and

the fifth at Scythopolis, that he might not distress Caesarea

with the entire army. This place was warm, even in winter,

as it was suffocating hot in the summer-time, by reason of its

situation in a plain, and near to the sea [of Galilee.]

2. In the mean time, there were gathered together as well

such as had seditiously got out from among their enemies, as

those that had escaped out of the demolished cities, which

were in all a great number, and repaired Joppa, which had

been left desolate by Cestius, that it might serve them for a

place of refuge; and because the adjoining region had been

laid waste in the war, and was not capable of supporting them,

they determined to go off to sea. They also built themselves

a great many piratical ships, and turned pirates upon the seas

near to Syria, and Phoenicia, and Egypt, and made those seas

unnavigable to all men. Now as soon as Vespasian knew of

their conspiracy, he sent both footmen and horsemen to Joppa,

who entered the city, which was unguarded, in the night-time:

however, those that were in it perceived that they should bo

