454 FLAVIUSJ0SEPHU3 [B. IT.

must leave off their spite against us. Nor are we guilty of

any envious behavior towards them when we honor our own

legislator, and believe what he, by his prophetic authority,

hath taught us concerning God: for though we should not

be able ourselves to understand the excellency of our own

laws, yet would the great multitude of those that desire to

imitate them justify us in greatly valuing ourselves upon

them.

41. But as for the [distinct] political laws by which we are

governed, I have delivered them accurately in my books of

Antiquities: and have only mentioned them now so far as

was necessary to my present purpose, without proposing to

myself either to blame the laws of other nations or to make

an encomium upon our own; but in order to convict those

that have written about us unjustly, and in an impudent

affectation of disguising the truth. And now I think I have

sufficiently completed what I proposed in writing these books :

for whereas our accusers have pretended that our nation are

a people of a very late original, I have demonstrated that

they are exceeding ancient; for I have produced as wit足

nesses thereto many ancient writers who have made mention

of us in their books, while they said that no such writer had

so done. Moreover, they had said that we were sprung from

the Egyptians, while I have proved that we came from an足

other country into Egypt: while they had told lies of us, as

if we were expelled thence on account of diseases on our bo足

dies, it has appeared, on the contrary, that we returned to

our own country by our own choice, and with sound and

strong bodies. Those accusers reproached our legislator as

a vile fellow; whereas God in old time bare witness to his

virtuous conduct; and since that testimony of God, timo

itself hath been discovered to have borne witness to the same

thing.

42. As to the laws themselves, more words are unnecessary,

for they are visible in their own nature, and appear to teach

not impiety, but the truest piety in the world. They do not

make men hate one another, but encourage people to com足

municate what they have to one another freely: they are

