216 THE FAMINE. [b. V.

some part of what they had brought; though these would not

give them the least crumb, and they were to be well con­

tented that they were only spoiled, and not slain at the same

time.

4. These were the afflictions which the lower sort of the

people suffered from these tyrants' guards; but for the men

that were in dignity, and withal were rich, they were carried

before the tyrants themselves, some of which were falsely ac­

cused of laying treacherous plots, and so were destroyed;

others of them were charged with designs of betraying the

city to the Romans ; but the readiest way of all was this, to

suborn somebody to affirm that they were resolved to desert

to the enemy. And he who was utterly despoiled of what he

had by Simon was sent back again to John, as of those who

had been already plundered by John, Simon got what re­

mained ; insomuch that they drank the blood of the populace

to one another, and divided the dead bodies of the poor crea­

tures between them; so that although, on account of their

ambition after dominion, they contended with each other, yet

did they very well agree in their wicked practices, for he that

did not communicate what he got by the miseries of others to

the other tyrant, seemed to be too little guilty, and in one

respect only, and he that did not partake of what was so

communicated to him, grieved at this as at the loss of what

was a valuable thing, that he had no share in such barbarity.

5. It is therefore impossible to go distinctly over every in­

stance of these men's iniquity. I shall, therefore, speak my

mind here at once briefly, that neither did any other city ever

suffer such miseries, nor did any age ever breed a generation

more fruitful in wickedness than this was, from the beginning

of the world. Finally, they brought the Hebrew nation into

contempt, that they might themselves appear comparatively

less impious with regard to strangers. They confessed, what

was true, that they were the slaves, the scum, and the spu­

rious and abortive offspring of our nation, while they over­

threw the city themselves, and forced the Romans, whether

they would or no, to gain a melancholy reputation by acting

gloriously against them, and did almost draw that fire upon

