CXI.] VESPASIAN GOES TO ROME. 153

eight months and five days;' and had he lived much longer, I

cannot but think the empire would not have been sufficient

for his lust. Of the others that were slain were numbered

above fifty thousand. This battle was fought on the third

day of the month Apellus [Casleu:] on the next day Mucianus

came into the city with his army, and ordered Antonius and

his men to leave off killing; for they were still searching the

houses, and killed many of Vitellius's soldiers, and many of

the populace, as supposing them to be of his party, prevent­

ing by their rage any accurate distinction between them and

others. He then produced Domitian, and recommended him

to the multitude, until his father should come himself: so the

people, being now freed from their fears, made acclamations

of joy for Vespasian as for their emperor, and kept festival

days for his confirmation and for the destruction of Vitellius.

5. And now, as Vespasian was come to Alexandria, this

good news came from Rome, and at the same time came em­

bassies from all his own habitable earth to congratulate him

upon his advancement; and though this Alexandria was the

greatest of all cities next to Rome, it proved too narrow to

contain the multitude that then came to it. So upon this

confirmation of Vespasian's entire government, which was

now settled, and upon the unexpected deliverance of the

public affairs of the Romans from ruin, Vespasian turned his

thoughts to what remained unsubdued in Judea. However,

he himself made haste to go to Rome, as the winter was now

almost over, and soon set the affairs of Alexandria in order,

but sent his son Titus, with a select part of his army, to de­

stroy Jerusalem. So Titus marched on foot as far as Nico­

1 The numbers in Josephus, chap. ix. sect. 2, 9, for Galba 7 months 7 days,

for Otho 3 months 2 days, and here for Vitellius 8 months 5 days, do not

agree with any Roman historians, who also disagree among themselves. And,

indeed, Scaliger justly complains, as Dr. Hudson observes on chap. ix. sect.

2, that this period is very confused and uncertain in the ancient authors.

They were probably some of them contemporary together for some time; one

of the best evidences we have, I mean Ptolemy's Canon, omits them all, as

if they did not altogether reign one whole year, nor had a single Thoth or

New-Year's day (which then fell upon Aug. 0,) in their entire reigns. Dio

also, who says that Vitellius reigned a year within ten days, does yet esti­

mate all their reigns together at no more than 1 year, 1 month and 2 days.

