152 AFFAIRS AT ROME. [B. IV.

before the city, and fell into the city, together with the rest,

and gave leave to his soldiers to plunder it. And here it was

that many strangers who were merchants, as well as many

of the people of that country, perished, and among them Vi-

tellius's whole army, being thirty thousand and two hundred,

while Antonius lost no more of those that came with him from

Mysia than four thousand and five hundred : he then loosed

Cccinna, and sent him to Vespasian, to tell him the good news.

So he came, and was received by him, and covered the scandal

of his treachery by the unexpected honors he received from

Vespasian.

4. And now, upon the news that Antonius was approaching,

Sabinus took courage at Rome, and assembled those cohorts

of soldiers that kept wateh by night, and in the night-time

seized upon the Capitol; and as the day came on, many men

of character came over to him, with Domitian his brother's

son, whose encouragement was of very great weight for the

compassing the government. Now Vitcllius was not much

concerned at this Primus, but was very angry at those that

had revolted with Sabinus; and thirsting, out of his own

natural barbarity, after noble blood, he sent out that part of

the army which came along with him to fight against the

Capitol; and many bold actions were done on this side, and

on the side of those that held the temple. But at last the sol­

diers that came from Germany, being too numerous for the

others, got the hill into their possession, where Domitian, with

many other of the principal Romans, providentially escaped,

while the rest of the multitude were entirely cut to pieces,

and Sabinus himself was brought to Vitcllius, and then slain ;

the soldiers also plundered the temple of its ornaments, and

set it on fire. But now, within a day's time, came Antonius,

with his army, and were met by Vitcllius and his army, and

having had a battle in three several places, the last were all

destroyed. Then did Vitcllius come out of the palace in h.1s

cups, and satiated with an extravagant and luxurious meal, as

in the last extremity; and being drawn along through the

multitude, and abused with all sorts of torments, had his head

cut off in the midst of Rome, having retained the government

