DISSERTATION III. 513

mon.] An ox is also sacrificed, which the Egyptians worship

under the name of Apis.1

They abstain from swine's flesh, as a memorial of that

miserable destruction which the mange, to which that crea­

ture is liable, brought on them, and with which they had been

defiled.2

That they had endured a long famine, they attest still by

their frequent fastings.3 And that they stole the fruits of

the earth, we have an argument from the bread of the Jews,

which is unleavened.4

It is generally supposed they rest on the seventh day,5

because that day gave them [the first] rest from their labors.

Besides which, they are idle on every seventh year,0 as being

pleased with a lazy life. Others say, that they do honor

thereby to Saturn ;7 or, perhaps, the Idaei gave them this

part of their religion, who [as we said above] were expelled

together with Saturn, and who, as we have been informed,

were the founders of this nation; or else it was because the

star Saturn moves in the highest orb, and of the seven planets

exerts the principal part of that energy whereby mankind are

governed : and, indeed, that most of the heavenly bodies exert

1 These are only guesses of Tacitus or bis heathen authors, but no more.

2 Such memorials of what must have been very reproachful, arc strangers

to the rest of mankind, and without any probability.

3 The Jews had but one solemn fast of old in the whole year, the great day

of expiation.

4 Unleavened bread was only used at the passover.

5 It is very strange that Tacitus should not know or confess that the Jews'

seventh day, and seventh year of rest, wero in memory of the seventh, or Sab­

bath-day's rest, after the six days of creation. Every Jew, as well as every

Christian, could have informed him of those matters.

o A strange hypothesis of the origin of the Sabbatic year, and without all

good foundation. Tacitus probably had never heard of the Jews' year oj

jubilee, so he says nothing of it.

' As if the Jews, in the days of Moses, or long before, knew that the

Greeks and Romans would long afterward call the seventh day of the week

Saturn's day; which Dio observes was not so called of old time; and it is a

question whether before the Jews fefl into idolatry, they evor heard of such

a star or god as Saturn. Amos, v. 25: Acts, vii. 43.

