84 SURRENDER OF 0, ISCIIALA. [B. IV.

taken up by the robbers, who were also the guard at the

gates, in order to prevent any of the rest from going out in

order to propose terms of submission, and from receiving any

of the horsemen into the city. But John returned Titus this

answer, that " for himself he was content to hearken to his

proposals, and that he would either persuade or force those

that refused them. Yet he said that Titus ought to have

such regard to the Jewish law, as to grant them leave to

celebrate that day, which was the seventh day of the week,

on which it was unlawful not only to remove their arms, but

even to treat of peace also; and that even the Romans were

not ignorant how the period of the seventh day was among

them a cessation from all labors; and that he who should

compel them to transgress the law about that day would be

equally guilty with those that were compelled to transgress

it: and that this delay could be of no disadvantage to him:

for why should any body think of doing any thing in the

night, unless it was to fly away ? which he might prevent by

placing his camp round about them : and that they should

think it a great point gained, if they might not be obliged

to transgress the laws of their country; and that it would

be a right thing for him, who designed to grant them peace

without their expectation of such a favor, to preserve the laws

of those they saved inviolable." Thus did this man put a

trick upon Titus, not so much out of regard to the seventh

day as to his own preservation; for he was afraid lest he

should be quite deserted, if the city should be taken, and had

his hopes of life in that night, and in his flight therein. Now

this was the work of God, who, therefore, preserved this John,

that he might bring on the destruction of Jerusalem ; as also,

it was his work that Titus was prevailed with by this pretence

for a delay, and that ho pitched his camp farther off the city

at Cydessa. This Cydessa was a strong Mediterranean village

of the Tyrians, which always hated and made war against the

Jews; it had also a great number of inhabitants, and was

well fortified, which made it a proper place for such as were

enemies to the Jewish nation.

4. Now, in the night-time, when John saw that there was

