C. II.] THE ASSAULT. 253

tonia, as a dispenser of rewards to those soldiers that signa­

lized themselves in the fight, than by coming down, and

hazarding his own person in the forefront of them; for that

they would all fight stoutly, while Caesar looked upon them."

With this advice Caesar complied, and said, that " the only

reason ho had for such compliance with the soldiers was this,

that he might be able to judge of their courageous actions,

and that no valiant soldier might lie concealed, and miss of

his reward, and no cowardly soldier might go unpunished,

but that he might himself be an eye-witness, and able to give

evidence of all that was done, who was to be the disposer of

punishments and rewards to them." So he sent the soldiers

about their work at the hour forementioned, while he went

out himself to a higher place in the tower of Antonia, whence

he might see what was done, and there waited with impatience

to see the event.

6. However, the soldiers that were sent did not find the

guards of the temple asleep, as they hoped to have done, but

were obliged to fight with them immediately hand to hand,

as they rushed with violence upon them with a great shout.

Now, as soon as the rest within the temple heard that shout

of those that were upon the watch, they ran out in troops

upon them. Then did the Romans receive the onset of those

that came first upon them; but those that followed them fell

upon their own troops, and many of them treated their own

soldiers as if they had been enemies; for the great confused

noise that was made on both sides hindered them from dis­

tinguishing one another's voices, as did the darkness of the

night hinder them from the like distinction by the sight; be­

sides that blindness which arose otherwise also from the pas­

sion and the fear they were in at the same time: for which

reason it was all one to the soldiers who it was they struck

at. However, this ignorance did less harm to the Romans

than to the Jews, because they were joined together under

their shields, and made their sallies more regularly than the

others did, and each of them remembered his watch-word;

while the Jews were perpetually dispersed abroad, and made

their attacks and retreats at random, and so did frequently

IV. — 22

