C. VII.] ANTIOCIIUS, KING OF COMMAGENE. 323

which he gave them for their habitation: it is called Emmausj-

and is distant from Jerusalem threescore furlongs. He also

paid a tribute upon the Jews wheresoever they were, and

enjoined every one of them to bring two drachmae every year

into the capitol, as they used to pay the same to the temple

at Jerusalem. And this was the state of the Jewish affairs

at this time.

CHAPTER VII.

CONCERNING THE CALAMITY THAT BEFELL ANTIOCIIUS, KING

OF COMMAGENE; AS ALSO CONCERNING THE ALANS, AND

WHAT OREAT MISCHIEFS THEY DID TO THE MEDES AND

ARMENIANS.

§ 1. And now, in the fourth year of the reign of Vespasian,

it came to pass that Antiochus, the king of Commagene, with

all his family, fell into very great calamities. The occasion

was this. — Cecennius Petus, who was president of Syria at

this time, whether it were done out of regard to truth, or

whether out of hatred to Antiochus (for which was the real

motive was never thoroughly discovered,) sent an epistle to

Caesar, and therein told him that " Antiochus, with his son

Epiphanes, had resolved to rebel against the Romans, and had

made a league with the king of Parthia to that purpose: that

it was, therefore, fit to prevent them, lest they prevent us,

and begin such a war as may cause a general disturbance in

the Roman empire." Now Caesar was disposed to take some

1 That the city of Emmaus or Ammaus in Josephus and others, which was

the place of the government of Julius Africanus, in the beginning of the

third century, and which he then procured to bo rebuilt, and after which

rebuilding it was called Nicopolis, is entirely different from that Ernmaus

which is mentioned by St. Luke, xxiv. 17; see Reland's Faloestina, lib. ii.

page 429, and under tho same name Ammaus also. But he justly thinks

that in St. Luke may well bo tho same with this Ammaus before us, espe­

cially since the Greek copies here usually make it 0O furlongs distant from

Jerusalem, as does St. Luke, though the Latin copies say only 30. The place

also allotted for these 800 soldiers, as for a Roman garrison, in this place,

would most naturally be not so remote from Jerusalem as was the other

Emmaus of Nicopolis.

