C. VII.] VESPASIAN. 25

cities that were round about it; some of which were quite

destitute of inhabitants, and out of some of them he carried

the inhabitants as slaves into captivity.

2. As to Josephus, his retiring into that city which he

chose as the most fit for his security, put it into great fear;

for the people of Tiberias did not imagine that he would havo

run away, unless he had entirely despaired of the success of

the war. And, indeed, as to that point, they were not mis­

taken about his opinion; for he saw whither the affairs of the

Jews would tend at last, and was sensible that they had but

one way of escaping, and that was by repentance. However,

although he expected that the Romans would forgive him,

yet did he choose to die many times over rather than to be­

tray his country, and to dishonor that supreme command of

the army which had been intrusted with him, or to live hap­

pily under those against whom he was sent to fight. He

determined, therefore, to give an exact account of affairs to

the principal men at Jerusalem by a letter, that he might

not by too much aggrandizing the power of the enemy make

them too timorous, nor by relating that their power beneath

the truth might encourage them to stand out, when they

were, perhaps, disposed to repentance. He also sent them

word, that if they thought of coming to terms, they must

suddenly write him an answer; or if they resolved upon war,

they must send him an army sufficient to fight the Romans.

Accordingly, he wrote these things, and sent messengers im­

mediately to carry his letters to Jerusalem.

3. Now Vespasian was very desirous of demolishing Jota-

pata, for he had gotten intelligence that the greatest part of

the enemy had retired thither, and that it was, on other ac­

counts, a place of great security to them. Accordingly, he

sent both footmen and horsemen to level the road, which was

mountainous and rocky, not without difficulty to be travelled

over by footmen, but absolutely impracticable for horsemen.

Now these workmen accomplished what they were about in

four days' time, and opened a broad way for the army. On

the fifth day, which was the twenty-first of the month Arte-

misius [Jyar,] Josephus prevented him, and came from Tibe-

IV. —3

