214 THE FAMINE. [b. V.

for they were equally destroyed in both cases; for every such

person was put to death under this pretence, that they wero

going to desert, hut in reality that the robbers might get,

what they had. The madness of the seditious did also in­

crease together with their famine, and both those miseries

were every day inflamed more and more; for there was no

corn which any where appeared publicly, but the robbers

came running into, and searched men's private houses ; and

then if they found any, they tormented them, because they

had denied they had any, and if they found none, they tor­

mented them worse, because they supposed they had more

carefully concealed it. The indication they made use of,

whether they had any or not, was taken from the bodies of

these miserable wretches ; which, if they were in good case,

they supposed they were in no want at all of food, but if

they were wasted away, they walked off without searching

any farther: nor did they think it proper to kill such as

these, because they saw they would very soon die of them­

selves for want of food. Many there were, indeed, who

sold what they had for one measure; it was of wheat, if

they were of the richer sort, but of barley, if they were poorer.

When these had so done, they shut themselves up in the in­

most rooms of their houses, and eat the corn they had gotten ;

some did it without grinding it, by reason of the extremity of

the want they were in, and others baked bread of it, accord­

ing as necessity and fear dictated to them: a table was no­

where laid for a distinct meal, but they snatched the bread

out of the fire, half-baked, and eat it very hastily.

3. It was now a miserable case, and a sight that would

justly bring tears into our eyes, how men stood as to their

food, while the more powerful had more than enough, and the

weaker wero lamenting [for want of it.] But the famine was

too hard for all other passions, and it is destructive to nothing

so much as to modesty; for what was otherwise worthy of

reverence was in this case despised ; insomuch that children

pulled the very morsels that their fathers were eating out of

their very mouths; and what was still more to be pitied, so

did the mothers do as to their infants; and when those that

