62 SIEfiE OF TARICnE^!. [b. III.

eheae, as relying upon the strength of the city, and on tho

lake that lay by it. This lake is called by the people of the

country the lake of Grennesareth. The city itself is situated,

like Tiberias, at the bottom of a mountain; and on those

sides which are not washed by the sea had been strongly

fortified by Josephus, though not so strongly as Tiberias;

for the wall of Tiberias had been built at the beginning of

the Jews' revolt, when he had great plenty of money, and

great power, but Taricheae partook only the remains of that

liberality. Yet had they a great number of ships gotten

ready upon the lake, that, in case they were beaten at land,

they might retire to them ; and they were so fitted up, that

they might undertake a sea-fight also. But as the Romans

were building a wall about their camp, Jesus and his party

were neither affrighted at their number, nor at the good order

they were in, but made a sally upon them; and at the very

first onset the builders of the wall were dispersed, and these

pulled what little they had before built to pieces ; but as soon

as they saw the armed men getting together, and before they

had suffered any thing themselves, they retired to their own

men. But then the Romans pursued them, and drove them

into their ships, where they launched out as far as might give

them the opportunity of reaching the Romans with what they

threw at them, and then cast anchor, and brought their ships

close, as in a line of battle, and thence fought the enemy from

the sea, who were themselves at land. But Vesrjasian hear­

ing that a great multitude of them were gotten together in

the plain that was before the city, he thereupon stnt his son,

with six hundred chosen horsemen, to disperse them.

2. But when Titus perceived that the enemy was very nu­

merous, ho sent to his father, and informed him that he should

want more forces. But as ho saw a great many of the horse­

men eager to fight, and that before any succors could come

to them, and that yet some of them were privately under a

sort of consternation at the multitude of the Jews, he stood

in a place whence he might be heard, and said to them, —

" My brave Romans ! for it is right for me to put you in mind

of what nation you are, in the beginning of my speech, that

