B. I.] AGAINST APION. 361

for thcin always to make such a profession ; but their business

was to demonstrate that they could write well, and make an

impression upon mankind thereby; and in what manner of

writing they thought they were able to exceed others, to that

did they apply themselves. Some of them betook themselves

to the writing of fabulous narrations; some of them endeavored

to please the cities or the kings, by writing in their commen­

dation ; others of them fell to finding faults with transactions,

or with the writers of such transactions, and thought to mako

a great figure by so doing. And, indeed, these do what is

of all things the most contrary to true history; for it is the

great character of true history, that all concerned therein

both speak and write the same things; while these men, by

writing differently about the same things, think they shall bo

believed to write with the greatest regard to truth. We,

therefore, [who are Jews,] must yield to the Grecian writers

as to language and eloquence of composition ; but then we

shall give them no such preference as to the verity of ancient

history, and least of all as to that part which concerns the

affairs of our own several countries.

0. As to the care of writing down the records from the

earliest antiquity among the Egyptians and Babylonians, that

the priests were intrusted therewith, and employed a philoso­

phical concern about it; that they were the Chaldean priests

that did so among the Babylonians, and that the Phoenicians,

who were mingled among the Greeks, did especially make uso

been chronology or history, but philology, to know words and not things,

they not much entering oftentimes into the real contents of their authors,

and judging which were the most accurate discoverers of truth, and most to

be depended on in their several histories, but rather inquiring who wrote

the finest style and had the greatest elegance in their expressions, which are

things of small consequence in comparison with the other. Thus you will

sometimes find great debates among the learned, whether Herodotus or

Thucydides were the finest historians in the Ionic and Attic ways of writing,

which signify little as to the real value of each of their histories, while it

would be of much more moment to let the reader know that, as the conse­

quence of Herodotus's history, which begins so much earlier, and reaches

so much wider than that of Thucydides, is, therefore, vastly greater; eo is

the most part of Thucydides, which belongs to his own times, and fell under

his own observation, much the most certain.

IV.—31

