DISSERTATION III. 515

are put to death for their crimes, as eternal. Hence comes

their love of posterity and contempt of death.

They derive their custom of hurying, instead of burning,

their dead, from the Egyptians:' they have also the same

care of the dead with them, and the same persuasion about

the invisible world below: but of the gods above, their opinion

is contrary to theirs. The Egyptians worship abundance of

animals, and images of various sorts.

The Jews have no notion of any more than one divine

being,2 and that known only by the mind. They esteem such

to bo profane who frame images of gods, out of perishable

matter, and in the shape of men. That this being is supreme

and eternal, immutable and unperishable, is their doctrine.

Accordingly, they have no images in their cities, much less

in their temples: they never grant this piece of flattery to

kings, or this kind of honor to emperors.3 But because their

priests, when they play on the pipe and the timbrels, wear

ivy round their head, and a golden vine' has been found in

their temple, some have thought that they worshipped our

father Bacchus, the conqueror of the East; whereas the cere­

monies of the Jews do not at all agree with those of Bacchus;

for he appointed rites that were of a jovial nature, and fit for

festival?, while the practices of the Jews are absurd and

sordid.

Chap. VI.] The limits of Judea easterly are bounded by

Arabia: Egypt lies on the south: on the west are Phoenicia

1 This custom is at least as old among the Hebrews as the dnys of Abra­

ham, and the cave of Muchpelab, long before the Israelites went into Egypt.

Gen. xxiii. 1-20: xxv. 8-10.

2 These are valuable concessions, which Tacitus here makes, as to the un­

spotted piety of the Jewish nation, in the worship of one infinite, invisible

God, and absolute rejection of all idolatry, and of all worship of images,

nay, of the image of the emperor Caius himself, or of affording it a place in

their temple.

' All these concessions were to be learned from Josephus, and almost only

from him; out of whom, therefore, I conclude Tacitus took the finest part

of his character of the Jews.

* This particular fact, that there was a golden vine in the front of the  
Jewish temple, was in all probability taken by Tacitus out of Josephus: but

as the Jewish priests were never adorned with ivy, the signal of Bacchus,

how Tacitus came to imagine this, I cannot tell.

