120 FURTHER CRUELTIES. [B. IV.

a distemper at home; for should we now conquer tliem, it

would be said the conquest was not owing to our bravery, but

to their sedition."

3. And now the commanders joined in their approbation

of what Vespasian had said, and it was soon discovered how

wise an opinion he had given. And, indeed, many there were

of the Jews that deserted every day, and fled away from the

zealots, although their flight was very difficult, since they had

guarded every passage out of the city, and slew every one

that was caught at them, as taking it for granted they were

going over to the Romans; yet did he who gave them money

get clear off, while he only that gave them none was voted a

traitor. So the upshot was this, that the rich purchased their

flight by money, while none but the poor were slain. Along

all the roads also vast numbers of dead bodies lay on heaps,

and even many of those that were so zealous in deserting at

length chose rather to perish within the city; for the hopes

of burial made death in their own city appear of the two less

terrible to them. But these zealots came at last to that de­

gree of barbarity, as not to bestow a burial either on those

slain in the city or on those that lay along the roads; but as

if they had made an agreement to cancel both the laws of

their country and the laws of nature, and at the same time

that they defiled men with their wicked actions, they would

pollute the divinity itself also, they left the dead bodies to

putrefy under the sun : and the same punishment was allotted

to such as buried any, as to those that deserted, which was

no other than death; while he that granted the favor of a

grave to another would presently stand in need of a grave

himself. To say all in a word, no other gentle passion was

so entirely lost among them as mercy; for what were the

greatest objects of pity did most of all irritate these wretches,

and they transferred their rage from the living to those that

had been slain, and from the dead to the living. Nay, the

terror was so very great, that he who survived called them

that were first dead happy, as being at rest already; as did

those that were under torture in the prisons declare, that,

upon this comparison, those that lay unburied were the happi­

