VIII.] MASADA AND THE SICARII. 327

CHAPTER VIII.

CONCERNING MASADA, AND THOSE SICARII WHO KEPT IT J AND

HOW SILVA BETOOK HIMSELF TO FORM THE SIEGE OF THAT

CITADEL. ELEAZAR'S SPEECHES TO THE BESIEGED.

§ 1. When Bassus was dead in Judea, Flavius Silva

succeeded him as procurator there; who when he saw that

all the rest of the country was suhducd in this war, and that

there was but one only strong hold that was still in rebellion,

he got all his army together, that lay in different places, and

made an expedition against it. This fortress was called

Masada. It was one Eleazar, a potent man, and the com­

mander of these Sicarii, that had seized upon it. Ho was a

descendant from that Judas who had persuaded abundance

of the Jews, as we have formerly related, not to submit to

the taxation when Cyrenius was sent into Judea to make one;

for then it was that the Sicarii got together against those

that were willing to submit to the Romans, and treated them

in all respects as if they had been their enemies, both by

plundering them of what they had, by driving away their

cattle, and by setting fire to their houses; for they said that

they differed not at all from foreigners, by betraying in so

cowardly a manner that freedom which Jews thought worthy

to be contended for to the utmost, and by owning that they

preferred slavery under the Romans before such a contention.

Now this was in reality no better than a pretence and a

cloak for the barbarity which was made use of by them, and

to color over their own avarice, which they afterwards made

evident by their own actions; for those that were partners

with them in their rebellion joined also with them in the war

against the Romans, and went farther lengths with them in

their impudent undertakings against them ; and when they

were again convicted of dissembling in such their pretences,

they still more abused those that justly reproached them for

their wickedness. And, indeed, that was a time most fertile

in all manner of wicked practices, insomuch that no kind of

