B. I.] AGAINST APION, 369

of ignoble birth out of the eastern parts, and had boldness

enough to make an expedition into our country, and with

ease subdued it by force, yet without our hazarding a battle

with them. So when they had gotten those that governed us

under their power, they afterwards burnt down our cities, and

demolished the temples of the gods, and used all the inhabit­

ants after a most barbarous manner; nay, some they slew,

and led their children and their wives into slavery. At

length they made one of themselves king, whose name was

Solatis; he also lived at Memphis, and made both the upper

and lower regions pay tribute, and left garrisons in places

that were the most proper for them. He chiefly aimed to

secure the eastern parts, as foreseeing that the Assyrians,

who had then the greatest power, would be desirous of that

kingdom, and invade them ; and as he found in the Saitc No-

mos [Seth-roite,] a city very proper for his purpose, and

which lay upon the Bubastic channel, but with regard to a

certain theologic notion was called Avaris: this he rebuilt,

and made very strong by the walls he built about it, and by

a most numerous garrison of two hundred and forty thousand

armed men which he put into it to keep it. Thither Salatis

came in summer time, partly to gather his corn and pay his

soldiers their wages, and partly to exercise his armed men,

and thereby to terrify foreigners. When this man had

reigned thirteen years, after him reigned another, whose name

was Beoa, for forty-four years; after him reigned another,

called ApacJinas, thirty-six years and seven months ; after him

Apophis reigned sixty-one years, and then Janias fifty years

and one month; after all these reigned Assis forty-nine years

and two months. And these six were the first rulers among

them, who were all along making war with the Egyptians,

and were very desirous gradually to destroy them to the very

roots. This whole nation was styled Ilycsos, that is, shep­

herd-kings ; fur the first syllable IIYC, according to the sacred

dialect, denotes a king, as is SOS a shepherd ; but this accord­

ing to the ordinary dialect; and of these is compounded IIyc-

sos, but some say that these people were Arabians." Now,

in another copy it is said, that this word does not denote

