130 J E II I C H 0 A N D [B. IV.

as far as the lake Asphaltitis ; its length is two hundred and

thirty furlongs, and its breadth one hundred and twenty, and

it is divided in the midst by Jordan. It hath two lakes in it,

that of Asphaltitis and that of Tiberias, whose natures are

opposite to each other: for the former is salt and unfruitful,

but that of Tiberias is sweet and fruitful. This plain is much

burnt up in summer-time, and by reason of the extraordinary

heat, contains a very unwholesome air; it is all destitute of

water excepting the river Jordan, which water of Jordan is

the occasion why those plantations of palm-trees that are

near its banks are more flourishing and much more fruitful,

as are those that are remote from it not so flourishing or

fruitful.

3. Notwithstanding which there is a fountain by Jericho

that runs plentifully, and is very fit for watering the ground;

it arises near the old city, which Joshua the son of Nun, the

general of the Hebrews, took the first of all the cities of the

land of Canaan by right of war. The report is, that this

fountain at the beginning caused not only the blasting of the

earth and the trees, but of the children born of women; and

that it was entirely of a sickly and corruptive nature to all

things whatsoever, but that it was made gentle and very whole­

some and fruitful by the prophet Elisha. This prophet was

familiar with Elijah, and was his successor, who, when he

once was the guest of the people at Jericho, and the men of

the place had treated him very kindly, he both made them

amends as well as the country by a lasting favor : for he went

out of this city to this fountain, and threw into the current

an earthen vessel full of salt; after which he stretched out

his righteous hand unto heaven, and, pouring out a inild drink-

offering, he made this supplication,1 that " the current might

be mollified, and that the veins of fresh water might be

opened; that God also would bring into the place a more

temperate and fertile air for the current, and would bestow

upon the people of that country plenty of the fruits of the

1 This excellent prayer of Elisha is wanting in our copios, 2 Kings, ii. 21,

22, though it be referred to also in the Apostolical Constitutions, B. vii.
oh.

xxxvii.; and the success of it is mentioned in them all.

