C. VIII.] MAS A DA AND THE SICARII. 338

hind that tower which secured the road that led to the palace

and to the top of the hill, from the west, there was a certain

eminency of the rock, very hroad and very prominent, but

three hundred cubits beneath the highest part of Masada; it

was called the white promontory. Accordingly, he got upon

that part of the rock, and ordered the army to bring earth ;

and when they fell to that work with alacrity, and abundance

of them together, the bank was raised, and became solid, for

two hundred cubits in height. Yet was not this bank thought

sufficiently high for the use of the engines that were to be set

upon it; but still another elevated work of great stones com­

pacted together was raised upon that bank: this was fifty

cubits both in breadth and height. The other machines that

were now got ready were like to those that had been first

devised by Vespasian, and afterwards by Titus, for sieges.

There was also a tower made of the height of sixty cubits, and

all over plated with iron, out of which the Romans threw

darts and stones from the engines, and soon made those that

fought from the walls of the place to retire, and would not let

them lift up their heads above the works. At the same time

Silva ordered that great battering-ram which he had made to

be brought thither, and to be set against the wall, and to

make frequent batteries against it, which, with some difficulty,

broke down a part of the wall, and quite overthrew it. How­

ever, the Sicarii made haste, and presently built another wall

within that, which should not be liable to the same misfor­

tune from the machines with the other : it was made soft and

yielding, and so was capable of avoiding the terrible blows

that affected the other. It was framed after the following

manner : — They laid together great beams of wood length­

ways, one close to the end of another, and the same way in

which they were cut: there were two of these rows parallel

to one another, and laid at such a distance from each other

as the breadth of the wall required, and earth was put into

the space between those rows. Now, that the earth might

not fall away upon the elevation of this bank to a greater

height, they farther laid other beams over across them, and

thereby bound those beams together that lay lengthways.

