200 THE ROMANS TAKE [B. V.

that this was a delusion, he perceived that mercy in war is a

pernicious thing, because such cunning tricks have less place

under the exercise of greater severity. So he caused the

engine to work more strongly than before, on account of his

anger at the deceit put upon him. But Castor and his com­

panions set the tower on fire when it began to give way, and

leaped through the flame into a hidden vault that was under

it, which made the Romans farther suppose that they were

men of great courage, as having cast themselves into the fire.

CHAPTER VIII.

HOW THE ROMANS TOOK THE SECOND WALL, AND GOT ALL

READY FOR TAKING THE THIRD WALL.

§ 1. Now Ciesar took this wall there on the fifth day after

he had taken the first; and when the Jews had fled from him,

he entered into it, with a thousand armed men, and those of

his choice troops, and this at a place where were the mer­

chants of wool, the braziers, and the market for cloth, and

where the narrow streets led obliquely to the wall. Where­

fore, if Titus had either demolished a larger part of the wall

immediately, or had come in, and, according to the law of war,

had laid waste what was left, this victory would not, I sup­

pose, have been mixed with any loss to himself. But now, out

of the hope he had that he should make the Jews ashamed of

their obstinacy, by not being willing, when he was able, to

afflict them more than he needed to do, he did not widen the

breach of the wall, in order to make a safer retreat upon

occasion: for he did not think they would lay snares for him

that did them such a kindness. When, therefore, he came in,

he did not permit his soldiers to kill any of those they caught,

nor to set fire to their houses neither; nay, he gave leave to

the seditious, if they had a mind, to fight without any harm

to the people, and promised to restore the people's effects to

them, for ho was very desirous to preserve the city for his

own sake, and the temple for the sake of the city. As to the

