DISSERTATION II. 493

Gomorrah by fire and brimstone from heaven, and to extir­

pate the main body of the Amorites out of the land of Canaan,

as soon as their iniquities were full,' and in these instances

included the young innocent infants, together with the old

hardened sinners ; when God was pleased to send an angel,

and by him to destroy 185,000 Assyrians (the number at­

tested to by Berosus the Chaldean, as well as by our own

Bibles,) in the days of Hezekiah, most of which seem to have

had no other peculiar guilt upon them than that common to

soldiers in war, of obeying, without reserve, their king Sen­

nacherib, his generals and captains: and when at the plague

of Athens, London, or Marseilles, &c. so many thousand

righteous men and women, with innocent babes, were swept

away on a sudden by a fatal contagion, I do not remember

that sober men have complained that God dealt unjustly with

such his creatures, in those to us seemingly severe dispensa­

tions ; nor are we certain when any such seemingly severe dispen­

sations are really such, nor do we know but shortening the lives

of men may sometimes be the greatest blessing to them, and

prevent or put a stop to those courses of gross wickedness

which might bring them to greater misery in the world to

come: nor is it indeed fit for such poor, weak, and ignorant

creatures as we are, in the present state, to call our Almighty,

and All-wise, and All-good Creator and Benefactor, to an

account upon any such occasions; since we cannot but ac­

knowledge, that it is he that hath made us, and not we our­

selves;'* that we are nothing, and have nothing of ourselves

independent on him, but that all we are, all we have, and all

we hope for, is derived from him, from his free and undeserved

bounty, which, therefore, he may justly take from us in what

way soever, and whensoever he pleases; all wise and good

men still saying in such cases with the pious Psalmist, xxxix.

9, " I was dumb, I opened not my mouth, because thou didst

it;" and with patient Job, i. 21; ii. 10, " Shall we receive

good at the hand of God, and shall we not receive evil ? The

Lord gave and the Lord hath taken away, blessed be the

i Gen. xv. lb. 3 Psal. c. 3.

IV. — 42

