C. IV.] OPERATIONS NEAR SEPPHORIS. 15

far as Julias. Its inhabitants are a mixture of Jews and

Syrians. And thus have I, with all possible brevity, de­

scribed the country of Judea, and those that lie round

about it.

CHAPTER IV.

JOSEPHUS MAKES AN ATTEMPT UPON SEPPHORIS, BUT IS RE­

PELLED. TITUS COMES WITH A GREAT ARMVT TO PTOLEMAIS.

§ 1. Now the auxiliaries which were sent to assist the people

of Sepphoris, being a thousand horsemen and six thousand

footmen, under Placidus the tribune, pitched their camp in

two bodies in the great plain. The foot were put into the city

to be a guard to it, but the horse lodged abroad in the camp.

These last, by marching continually one way or other, and

overrunning the parts of the adjoining country, were very

troublesome to Josephus and his men; they also plundered

all the places that wero out of the city's liberty, and inter­

cepted such as durst go abroad. On this account it was that

Josephus marched against the city, as hoping to take what he

had lately encompassed with so strong a wall, before they re­

volted from the rest of the Galileans, that the Romans would

have had much ado to take it: by which means he proved too

weak, and failed of his hopes, both as to the forcing the place,

and as to his prevailing with the people of Sepphoris to de­

liver it up to him. By this means he provoked the Romans

to treat the country according to the law* of war ; nor did the

Romans, out of the anger they bore at this attempt, leave off

either by night or by day burning the places in the plain, and

stealing away the cattle that were in the country, and killing

whatsoever appeared capable of fighting, perpetually, and

leading the weaker people as slaves into captivity: so that

Galilee was all over filled with fire and blood; nor was it

exempted from any kind of misery or calamity; for the only

refuge they had was this, that when they were pursued, they

could retire to the cities which had walls built them by

Josephus.

