388 FLAVIUSJOSEPHUS [B. I.

and in weight two talents; upon these there is a light that

is never extinguished either by night or by day. There is

no image, nor any thing, nor any donations therein;

nothing at all is there planted, neither grove, nor any thing

of that sort. The priests abide therein both nights and days,

performing certain purifications, and drinking not the least

drop of wine while they are in the temple." Moreover, he

attests that we Jews went as auxiliaries along with king Alex­

ander, and after him with his successors. I will add farther,

what he says ho learned, when he was himself with the samo

army, concerning the actions of a man that was a Jew. His

words arc these : — "As I was myself going to the Red Sea,

there followed us a man whose name was Mosollam: he was

one of the Jewish horsemen who conducted us: he was a per­

son of great courage, of a strong body, and by all allowed to

be the most skilful archer that was either among the Greeks

or Barbarians. Now this man, as people were in great num­

bers passing along the road, and a certain augur was ob­

serving an augury by a bird, and requiring them all to stand

still, inquired what they staid for? Hereupon the augur

showed liim the bird from whence he took his augury, and

told him, that if the bird staid where he was, they ought all

to stand still, but that if he got up and fled onward, they

must go forward; but that if he flew backward, they must

retire again. Mosollam made no reply, but drew his bow,

and shot at the bird, and hit him, and killed him ; and as the

augur and some others were very angry, and wished impreca­

tions upon him, he answered them thus : — "Why are you so

mad as to take this most unhappy bird into your hands ? for

how can this bird give us any true information concerning

our march who could not foresee how to save himself? for

had he been able to foreknow what was future, he would not

have come to this place, but would have been afraid lest Mo­

sollam the Jew should shoot at him and kill him." But of

Hecatcus's testimonies we have said enough; for as to such

as desire to know more of them, they may easily obtain them

from his book itself. However, I shall not think it too much

for me to name Agatharchides, as having made mention of

