432 FLAVIUS JOSEPH US [B. II.

of many desperate distresses, and brought them home in

safety. And certainly it was here necessary to travel over

a country without .water, and full of sand, to overcome their

enemies, and, during these battles, to preserve their children,

and their wives, and their prey; on all which occasions he

became an excellent general of an army, and a most prudent

counsellor, and one that took the truest care of them all: ho

also so brought it about that the whole multitude depended

upon him. And while he had them always obedient to what

he enjoined, he made no manner of use of his authority for

his own private advantage, which is the usual time when

governors gain great powers to themselves, and pave the way

for tyranny, and accustom the multitude to live very dis足

solutely : whereas, when our legislator was in so great au足

thority, he, on the contrary, thought he ought to have regard

to piety, and to show his great good-will to the people; and

by this means he thought he might show the great degree of

virtue that was in him, and might procure the most lasting

security to those who had made him their governor. When

he had, therefore, come to such a good resolution, and had

performed such wonderful exploits, we had just reason to

look upon ourselves as having him for a divine governor and

counsellor. And when he had first persuaded himself that

his actions and designs were agreeable to God's will, he

thought it his duty to imprint above all things that notion

upon the multitude; for those who have once believed that

1 This language, that Moses r.imai lamr, persuaded himself that what he

did was according to God's will, can mean no more by Josephus's own con足

stant notions elsewhere, than that he was firmly persuaded, that he had fully

satisfied himself that so it was, vfc., by the many revelations he had
received

from God, and the numerous miracles God had enabled him to work, as ho

both in these very two books against Apion and in his Antiquities most

clearly and freouently assures us. This is farther evident from several pas足

sages lower, where he affirms that Moses was no impostor nor deceiver, and

whero ho assures us that Moses's constitution of government was no other

than a Theocracy ; and where he says, they are to hope for deliverance out

of their distresses by prayer to God, and that withal it was owing in part

to this prophetic spirit of Moses, that the Jews expected a resurrection from

the dead. See almost as strange a use of the like words xcia9uv roi- Gs6r, to

persuade God. Antiq. B. vi. ch. v. sect. 0.

