68 THE COUNTRY OF (JENNES A RETH. [B. III.

can grow upon it, and the inhabitants, accordingly, plant all

sorts of trees there; for the temper of the air is so well

mixed, that it agrees very well with those several sorts; par­

ticularly walnuts, which require the coldest air, flourish there

in vast plenty; there are palm-trees also, which grow best in

hot air ; fig-trees also and olives grow near them, which yet

require an air that is more temperate. One may call this

place the ambition of nature, where it forces those plants

that are naturally enemies to one another to agree together:

it is a happy contention of the seasons, as if every one of

them laid claim to this country; for it not only nourishes

different sorts of autumnal fruits beyond men's expectation,

but preserves them also a great while; it supplies men with

the principal fruits, with grapes} and figs, continually, during

ten months of the year, and the rest of the fruits as they

become ripe together through the whole year: for, besides

the good temperature of the air, it is also watered from a

most fertile fountain. The people of the country called it

Capharnaum: some have thought it to bo a vein of the Nile,

because it produces the Coracin fish, as well as that lake does

which is near to Alexandria. The length of this country

extends itself along the banks of this lake that bears the

same name for thirty furlongs, and is in breadth twenty.

And this is the nature of the place.

9. But now, when the vessels were gotten ready, Vespasian

put on ship-board as many of his forces as he thought sufficient

to be too hard for those that were upon the lake, and set sail

after them. Now these which were driven into the lake could

neither fly to the land, where all was in their enemies' hand

and in war against them; nor could they fight upon the level

1 It may be worth our while to observe here, that near this lake of

Genncsarcth, grapes and figs hang on the trees ten months of the year.

We may observe also, that in Cyril of Jerusalem, Cateches. xviii. 3, which

was delivered not long before Easter, there were no fresh leaves of fig-trees

nor bunches of fresh grapes in Judca; so that when St. Mark says, ch. li.

13, that our Savior, soon after the same time of the year, came and fouad

leaves on a fig-treo near Jerusalem, but no figs, became the time of new fys

ripening tvas not yet, he says very true ; nor were they, therefore, other
than

old leaves which our Savior saw, and old figs which he expected, and which

even with us commonly hang on the trees all winter long.

