74 SIEGE OF GAM ALA. [b. IV.

is a spring of warm water, useful for healing,) and came to

Gamala; yet was his situation such that he was not able to

encompass it all around with soldiers to watch it; but where

the places were practicable, he sent men to watch it, and

seized upon that mountain which was over it. And as the

legions according to their usual custom were fortifying their

camp upon that mountain, he began to cast up banks at the

bottom, at the part toward the east, where the highest tower

of the whole city was, and where the fifteenth legion pitched

their camp: while the fifth legion did duty over against the

midst of the city, and whilst the tenth legion filled up the

ditches and valleys. Now at this time it was that as king

Agrippa was come nigh the walls, and was endeavoring to

speak to those that were on the walls about a surrender, he

was hit with a stone on his right elbow by one of the slingers;

he was then immediately surrounded with his own men. But

the Romans were excited to set about the siege by their in­

dignation on the king's account, and by their fears on their

own account, as concluding that those men would omit no

kinds of barbarity against foreigners and enemies, who were

so enraged against one of their own nation, and one that ad­

vised them to nothing but what was for ther own advantage.

4. Now when the hanks were finished, which was done on

the sudden, both by the multitude of hands and by their being

accustomed to such work, they brought the machines; but

Chares and Joseph, who were the most potent men in the

city, set their armed men in order, though already in a fright,

because they did not suppose that the city could hold out

long, since they had not a sufficient quantity either of water,

or of other necessaries. However, these their leaders encour­

aged them, and brought them out upon the wall, and for a

while, indeed, they drove away those that were bringing the

machines; but when those machines threw darts and stones

at them, they retired into the city; then did the Romans

bring battering-rams to three several places, and made the

walls shake [and fall.] They then poured in over the parts

of the wall that were thrown down, with the mighty sound of

trumpets and noise of armor, and with a shout of the soldiers,

