198 EVENTS OF THE SIEGE. [B. V.

and while both parties were throwing their darts at each

other, Longinus, one of the equestrian order, leaped out of

the army of the Romans, and leaped into the very midst of

the army of the Jews ; and as they dispersed themselves upon

this attack, he slew two of their men of the greatest courage;

one of them he struck in his mouth, as he was coming to meet

him ; the other was slain by him by that very dart which he

drew out of the body of the other, with which he ran this

man through his side, as he was running away from him;

and when he had done this, he first of all ran out of the

midst of his enemies to his own side. So this man signalized

himself for his valor, and many there were who were am­

bitious of gaining the like reputation. And now the Jews

were unconcerned at what they suffered themselves from the

Romans, and were only solicitous about what mischief they

could do them ; and death itself seemed a small matter to

them, if at the same time they could but kill any one of their

enemies. But Titus took care to secure his own soldiers from

harm, as well as to have them overcome their enemies. He

also said, that inconsiderate violence Was madness, and that

this alone was the true courage that was joined with good

conduct. He, therefore, commanded his men to take care,

when they fought their enemies, that they received no harm

from them at the same time, and thereby show themselves to

be truly valiant men.

4. And now Titus brought one of his engines to the middle

tower of the north part of the wall, in which a certain crafty

Jew, whoso name was Castor, lay in ambush, with ten others

like himself, the rest being fled away by reason of the archers.

These men lay still for a while, as in great fear, under their

breast-plates; but when the tower was shaken, they arose,

and Castor did then stretch out his hand, as a petitioner, and

called for Caesar, and by his voice moved his compassion, and

begged of him to have mercy upon them; and Titus, in the

innocency of his heart, believing him to be in earnest, and

hoping that the Jews did now repent, stopped the working of

the battering-ram, and forbade them to shoot at the petition­

ers, and bid Castor say what he had a mind to say to him.

