C. V.] T H E I D U M E A N S. 113

naked, and seemed to be the food of dogs and wild beasts.

And I cannot but imagine that virtue itself groaned at these

men's case, and lamented that she was here so terribly con­

quered by wickedness. And this at last was the end of

Ananus and Jesus.

3. Now after these were slain, the zealots and the multi­

tude of the Idumeans fell upon the people as upon a flock of

profane animals, and cut their throats; and for the ordinary

sort, they were destroyed in what place soever they caught

them. But for the noblemen and the youth, they first caught

them and bound them, and shut them up in prison, and put

oft" their slaughter, in hopes that some of them would turn

over to their party ; but not one of them would comply with

their desires, but all of them preferred death before being

enrolled among such wicked wretches as acted against their,

own country. But this refusal of theirs brought upon them

terrible torments; for they were so scourged and tortured

that their bodies were not able to sustain their torments, till

at length, and with difficulty, they had the favor to be slain.

Those whom they caught in the day-time were slain in the

night, and then their bodies were carried out, and thrown

away, that there might be room for other prisoners; and the

terror that was upon tho people was so great, that no one

had courage enough either openly to weep for the dead man

that was related to him, or to bury him; but those that were

shut up in their own houses could only shed tears in secret,

and durst not even groan, without great caution, lest any of

their enemies should hear them : for if they did, those that

mourned for others soon underwent the same death with those

whom they mourned for. Only, in the night-time, they would

take up a little dust, and throw it upon their bodies; and

even some that were the most ready to expose themselves to

danger would do it in the day-time; and there were twelve

thousand of the better sort who perished in this manner.

4. And now these zealots and Idumeans were quite weary

of barely killing men; so they had the impudence of setting

up fictitious tribunals and judicatures for that purpose; and

10 *

