B. I.] AGAINST APION. 873

16. This is Manetho's account. And evident it is, from

the number of years by him set down belonging to this

interval, if they be summed up together, that these shepherds,

as they are licre called, who were no other than our fore­

fathers, were delivered out of Egypt, and came thence, and

inhabited this country, three hundred and ninety-three years

before Danaus came to Argos; although the Argives look

upon him' as their most ancient king. Manetho, therefore,

bears this testimony to two points of the greatest consequence

to our purpose, and those from the Egyptian records them­

selves. In the first place, that we came out of another

country into Egypt, and that withal our deliverance out of

it was so ancient in time as to have preceded the siege of

Troy almost a thousand years;1 but then, as to those things

which Manetho adds, not from the Egyptian records, but, as

he confesses himself, from some stories of an uncertain

original, I will disprove them hereafter particularly, and

shall demonstrate that they are no better than incrediblo

fables.

17. I will now, therefore, pass from these records, and

come to those that belong to the Phoenicians, and concern

our nation, and shall produce attestations to what I have said

out of them. There are, then, records among the Tyrians,

that take in the history of many years, and these are public

writings, and are kept with great exactness, and include ac­

counts of the facts done among them, and such as concern

their transactions with other nations also, those I mean which

were worth remembering. Therein it was recorded, that the

temple was built by king Solomon at Jerusalem one hundred

the mott ancient king of Argos, he need not be supposed to mean, in the

strictest sense, that they had no one king so ancient as ho ; for it is
certain

they owned nine kings before him, and Inachus at the head of them; see

Authentic Records; Part ii. p. 983, as Josephus could not but know very

well; but that he was esteemed as very ancient by them, and that they knew

they had been first of all denominated Daaai, from this very ancient king

Danaus. Nor does this superlative degree always jmply the most ancieat of

all without exception, but is sometimes to be rendered very ancient only, as

is the case in the like superlative degrees of other words also.

1 See the preceding note.

IV. — 82

