318 LUCILIUS BASSUS. [B. VII.

that he might exceed its natural strength and security, which

yet itself rendered it hard to be taken by those fortifica­

tions which were made by the hands of men. Moreover, he

put a large quantity of darts and other machines of war into

it, and contrived to get every thing thither that might any

way contribute to its inhabitants' security under the longest

siege possible.

3. Now within this place there grew a sort of rue,1 that

deserves our wonder on account of its largeness; for it is no

way inferior to any fig-tree whatsoever, cither in height or in

thickness ; and the report is, that it had lasted over since the

times of Herod, and would probably have lasted much longer,

had it not been cut down by those Jews who took possession

of the place afterward. But still in that valley which en­

compasses the city on the north side, there is a certain place

called Baaras, which produces a root2 of the same name

with itself: its color is like to that of flame, and towards the

evening it sends out a certain ray like lightning; it is not

easily taken by such as would do it, but recedes from their

hands, nor will yield itself to be taken quietly, until cither

the urine of a woman or her menstrual blood be poured upon

it: nay, even then it is certain death to those that touch it,

unless any one take and hang the root itself down from his

hand, and so carry it away. It may also be taken another

way without danger, which is this.—They dig a trench quite

round about it, till the hidden part of the root be very small,

they then tie a dog to it; and when the dog tries hard to

follow him that tied him, this root is easily plucked up; hut

the dog dies immediately, as if it were instead of the man

that would take the plant away; nor after this need any one

1 Spanheim observes here, that in Uraecia Major and Sicily they had rue

prodigiously great and durable, like this rue at Maeherus.

■ This strange account of the place and root Baaras seems to have been

taken from the magicians, and the root to have been made use of in tho

days of Josephus in that superstitious way of casting out demons, supposed

by him to have been derived from king Solomon, of which we have already

seen he had a great opinion; Antiq. B. viii. ch. ii. sect. 5. We also may

hence learn the true notion Josephus had of demons and demoniaes, exactly

like that of the Jews and Christians in tho New Testament, and the first

four centuries. See Antiq. B. vi. ch. viii. sect. 2; B. xi. ch. ii. sect 3.

