0. I.J SIEGEOFGAMALA. 79

ascended on its north side; its top is a plain of twenty-six

furlongs, and all encompassed with a wall. Now Josephus

erected this so long a wall in forty days' time, and furnished

:t with other materials, and with water from below ; for the

inhabitants only made use of rain-water: as, therefore, there

was a great multitude of people gotten together upon this

mountain, Vespasian sent Placidus with six hundred horsemen

thither. Now, as it was impossible for him to ascend the

mountain, he invited many of them to peace, by the offer of

his right hand for their security, and of his intercession for

them. Accordingly they came down, but with a treacherous

design, as well "as he had the like treacherous design upon

them on the other side; for Placidus spoke mildly to them, as

aiming to take them when he got them into the plain; they

also came down as complying with his proposals, but it was in

order to fall upon him when he was not aware of it: however,

Placidus's stratagem was too hard for theirs; for when the

Jews began to fight, he pretended to run away, and when they

were in pursuit of the Romans, he enticed them a great way

along the plain, and then made his horsemen turn back;

whereupon he beat them, and slew a great number of them,

and cut off the retreat of the rest of the multitude, and hin­

dered their return. So they left Tabor, and fled to Jerusa­

lem, while the people of the country came to terms with him,

for their water failed them, and so they delivered up the

mountain and themselves to Placidus.

9. But of the people of Gamala those that were of the

bolder sort fled away and hid themselves, while the more in­

firm perished by famine; but the men of war sustained the

siege till the two and twentieth day of the month Hyperbe-

reteus [Tisri,] when three soldiers of the fifteenth legion,

about the morning watch, got under a high tower that was

stead of 26: since a mountain of only 3 furlongs perpendicular altitude may

easily require near an hour's ascent, and the circumference of an oval of the

foregoing quantity is near 6 furlongs. Nor certainly could such a vast cir­

cumference ns 20 furlongs or 3 and a quarter miles, at that height, be en­

compassed with a wall, including a trench and other fortifications, perhaps

those still remaining, ibid, in the small interval of 40 days, as Josephus
here

eays they were by himself.

<

