204 THUS RESUMES [B. V.

did not go on in the defence of the city, they thought it much

better to die in war. Fate also prevailed so far over them,

that the innocent were to perish with the guilty, and the city

was to be destroyed with the seditious that were in it.

2. Thus did the Romans spend four days in bringing this

subsistence-money to the several legions. But on the fifth

day, when no signs of peace appeared to come from the Jews,

Titus divided his legions, and began to raise banks both at

the tower of Antonia and at John's monument. Now, his

designs were to take the upper city at that monument, and

the temple at the tower of Antonia; for if the temple were

not taken, it would be dangerous to keep the city itself; so at

each of these parts he raised him banks, each legion raising

one. As for those that wrought at John's monument, the

Idumeans, and those that were in arms with Simon, made

sallies upon them, and put some stop to them; while John's

party, and the multitude of zealots with them, did the like to

those that were before the tower of Antonia. These Jews

were now too hard for the Romans, not only in direct fight­

ing, because they stood upon the higher ground, but because

they had now learned to use their own engines ; for their con­

tinual use of them one day after another, did by degrees im­

prove their skill about them; for of one sort of engines for

darts they had three hundred, and forty for stones, by the

means of which they made it more tedious for the Romans to

raise their banks. But then Titus, knowing that the city

would be either saved or destroyed for himself, did not only

proceed earnestly in the siege, but did not omit to have the

Jews exhorted to repentance: so he mixed good counsel with

his works for the siege. And being sensible that exhortations

are frequently more effectual than arms, he persuaded them

to surrender the city, now in a manner already taken, and

thereby to save themselves, and sent Josephus to speak to

them in their own language; for he imagined they might yield

to the persuasion of a countryman of their own.

3. So Josephus went round about the wall, and tried to

find a place that was out of the reach of their darts, and yet

within their hearing, and besought them, in many words, —

