502 DISSERTATION II.

thought that Jeptha had made such a vow, and executed it,

he is so far from hinting at its heing done in compliance with

any law of God, that he expressly condemns him for it, as

having acted contrary thereto; or, in his own words, "' as

having offered an oblation neither conformable to the law,

nor acceptable to God, nor weighing with himself what opinion

the hearers would have of such a practice."

7. That Isaac being at this time, according to Josephus,2

who is herein justly followed by Archbp. Usher,^ no less than

twenty-five years of age, and Abraham being, by consequence,

one hundred and twenty-five, it is not to be supposed that

Abraham could bind Isaac, in order to offer him in sacrifice,

but by his own free consent; which free consent of the party

who is to suffer seems absolutely necessary in all such cases ;

and which free consent St. Clement, as well as Josephus,

distinctly takes notice of on this occasion. St. Clement des­

cribes it thus :— "4 Isaac, being fully persuaded of what he

knew was to come, cheerfully yielded himself up for a sacri­

fice." And for Josephus,5 after introducing Abraham in a

pathetic speech, laying before Isaac the divine command, and

exhorting him patiently and joyfully to submit to it, he tells

us, that "Isaac very cheerfully consented;" and then intro­

duces him, in a short but very pious answer, acquiescing in

the proposal; and adds, that " he then immediately and

readily went to the altar to be sacrificed." Nor did Jephtha6

perform his rash vow, whatever it were, till his daughter had

given her consent to it.

8. It appears to me that Abraham never despaired entirely

of the interposition of Providence for the preservation of

Isaac, although in obedience to the command he prepared to

sacrifice him to God. This seems to me intimated in Abra­

ham's words to his servants, on the third day, when he was

in sight of the mountain on which he was to offer his son

Isaac: "? We will go and worship, and we will come again

to you." As also in his answer to his son, when he inquired,

1 Antiq. B. v. chap. vii. sect. 10. • Antiq. B. I. ehap. liii.

» Ush. Annal, ad. A. M. 21. « Clem. sect. 31.

6 Antiq. B. I. ch. liii. sect. 3. • Judges, xi. 30, 37. ' Gen. xxii. 6, 7.

