29-1 BRIEF HISTORY OF JERUSALEM. [B. VI.

so he was reserved for the triumph, and to be then slain ; as

was John condemned to perpetual imprisonment. And now

the Romans set fire to the extreme parts of the city, and

burnt them down, and entirely demolished its walls.

CHAPTER X.

THAT WHEREAS THE CITY OF JERUSALEM HAD BEEN FIVE TIMES

TAKEN FORMERLY, THIS WAS THE SECOND TIME OF ITS DESO­

LATION. A BRIEF ACCOUNT OF ITS HISTORY.

§ 1. And thus was Jerusalem taken, in the second year of

the reign of Vespasian, on the eighth day of the month

Gorpieus [Elul.] It had been taken five times1 before,

though this was the second time of its desolation; for

Shishak, the king of Egypt, and after him Antiochus, and

after him Pompey, and after them Sosias and Herod took

the city, but still preserved it: but before all these the king

of Babylon conquered it, and made it desolate, one thousand

four hundred and sixty-eight years and six months after it

was built. But he who first built2 it was a potent man among

1 Besides these fire hero enumerated who had taken Jerusalem of old,

Josephus, upon farther recollection, reckons a sixth, Antiq. B. xii. ch. 1.

sect. I, who should have been here inserted in the second place, I mean

l'tolcmy, the son of Lagus.

2 Why the great Bochart should say, De Phcenic. Colon. B. ii. ch. iv., that

"there are in this clause of Josephus as lnany mistakes as words," I do by

no means understand. Josephus thought Mclehisedek first built or rebuilt

and adorned this city, and that it was then called Salem, as Psal. lxxvi. 2,

that it afterward came to be called Jerusalem; and that Melehisedck, being

a priest as well as a king, built to the true God therein a temple or place

for public divine worship and sacrifice; all which things may he very true,

for aught we know to the contrary. And for the word aptr or Temple, as if

it must needs belong to the Great Temple built by Solomon long afterward,

Josephus himself uses »<ac for the small tabernacle of Moses, Antiq. B. iii.

ch. vi. seet. 4. See also Antiq. B. iii. ch. vi. sect. 1, as he here presently

uses upiv for a large and splendid synagogue of the Jews at Antioch only,

B. vii. ch. iii. sect. 3.

Ar. B. This is the proper place for such as have closely attended to these

latter Books of the War, to peruse, and that with equal attention, those

distinct and plain predictions of Jesus of Nazareth, in the gospels thereto

