140 SIMON OF GERASA. [B. IV.

at Betriacum in Gall, Otho gained the advantage on the first

day, but on the second day Vitellius's soldiers had the victory;

and, after much slaughter, Otho slew himself, when he had

heard of this defeat at Brixa, and after he had managed the

public affairs three months' and two days. Otho's army also

came over to Vitellius's generals, and he came himself down

to Rome with his army. But in the mean time Vespasian

removed from Caesarea, on the fifth day of the month Desius

[Sivan,] and marched against those places of Judea which

were not yet overthrown. So he went up to the mountainous

country, and took those two toparchies that were called the

Gophnitick and Acrabattene toparchies. After which he took

Bethel and Ephraim, two small cities ; and when he had put

garrisons into them, he rode as far as Jerusalem, in which

march he took many prisoners and many captives; but Cerealis,

one of his commanders, took a body of horsemen and foot­

men, and laid waste that part of Idumea which was called

the Upper Idumea, and attacked Caphethra, which pretended

to be a small city, and took it at the first onset, and burnt it

down. He also attacked Capharabim, and laid siege to it,

for it had a very strong wall; and when he expected to spend

a long time in that siege, those that were within opened their

gates on the sudden, and came to beg pardon, and surrender

themselves up to him. When Cerealis had conquered them

he went to Hebron, another very ancient city. I have told

you already, that this city is situated in a mountainous coun­

try, not far off Jerusalem : and when he had broken into the

city by force, what multitude and young men were left therein

he slew, and burnt down the city; so that as now all tho

places were taken, excepting Hcrodium, and Masada, and

Macherus, which were in the possession of the robbers; so

Jerusalem was what the Romans at present aimed at.

10. And now as soon as Simon had set his wife free, and

recovered her from the zealots, he returned back to the re­

mainders of Idumea; and driving the nation all before him

from all quarters, he compelled a great number of them to

1 Suetonius differs hardly three days from Josephus, and says Othopcrished

on the 95th day of his reign. In Othon. See the note on ch. xi. seet. 4.

