36 VESPASIAN. [B. III.

upon him, and fell down together with the head of the ram.

Next to him two brothers showed their courage; their names

were Netir and Philip, both of them of the village of Ruma,

and both of them Galileans also: these men leaped upon the

soldiers of the tenth legion, and fell down upon the Romans

with such a noise and force as to disorder their ranks, and to

put to flight all upon whomsoever they made their assaults.

22. After these men's performances, Josephus, and the

rest of the multitude with him, took a great deal of fire, and

burnt both the machines and their coverings, with the works

belonging to the fifth and to the tenth legion, which they put

to flight; when others followed them immediately, and buried

those instruments, and all the materials under ground. How­

ever, about the evening the Romans erected the battering-

ram against that part of the wall which had suffered before;

where a certain Jew that defended the city from the Romans

hit Vespasian with a dart in his foot, and wounded him a

little, the distance being so great that no mighty impression

could be made by the dart thrown so far off. However, this

caused the greatest disorder among the Romans; for when

those who stood near him saw his blood, they were disturbed

at it, and a report went abroad through the whole army that

the general was wounded, while the greatest part left the

siege, and came running together with surprise and fear to

the general; and before them all came Titus, out of the con­

cern he had for his father, insomuch that the multitude were

in great confusion, and this out of the regard they had for

their general, and by reason of the agony that the son was

in. Yet did the father soon put an end to the son's fear,

and to the disorder the army was under; for being superior

to his pains, and endeavoring soon to be seen by all that had

been in a fright about him, he excited them to fight the Jews

more briskly; for now everybody was willing to expose him­

self to danger immediately, in order to avenge their general,

and then they encouraged one another with loud voices, and

ran hastily to the walls.

23. But still Josephus and those with him, although they

fell down dead upon one another by the darts and stones

