C. VIII. j THE GREAT PLAIN. 131

earth and a succession of children; and that this prolific

water might never fail them while they continued to he

righteous." To these prayers Elisha joined proper opera足

tions of his hands after a skilful manner, and changed the

fountain; and that water, which had been the occasion of

barrenness and famine before, from that time did supply a

numerous posterity, and afford great abundance to the coun足

try. Accordingly, the power of it is so great in watering the

ground, that if it do but once touch a country, it affords a

sweeter nourishment than other waters do when they lie so

long upon them, till they are satiated with them. For which

reason the advantage gained from other waters when they

flow in great plenty is but small, while that of this water is

great when it flows even in little quantities. Accordingly, it

waters a larger space of ground than any other waters do,

and passes along a plain of seventy furlongs long and twenty

broad; wherein it affords nourishment to those most excellent

gardens that are thick set with trees. There are in it many

sorts of palm-trees that are watered by it, different from each

other in taste and name ; the better sort of them, when they

are pressed, yield an excellent kind of honey, not much in足

ferior in sweetness to other honey. This country withal pro足

duces honey from bees ; it also bears that balsam which is the

most precious of all the fruits in that place, cypress-trees

also, and those that bear myrobalanum ; so that he who should

pronounce this place to be divine would not be mistaken,

wherein is such plenty of trees produced as arc very rare,

and of the most excellent sort. And, indeed, if we speak of

those other fruits, it will not be easy to light on any climate

in the habitable earth that can well be compared to it: what

is here sowed comes up in such clusters, the cause of which

seems to me to be the warmth of the air and the fertility of

the waters : the warmth calling forth the sprouts, and making

them spread, and the moisture making every one of them

take root firmly, and supplying that virtue which it stands in

need of in summer-time. Now this country is then so sadly

burnt up that nobody cares to come at it; and if the water

be drawn up before sun-rising, and after that exposed to tho

