B.I.] AGAINST APION. 395

them as occasion should require, and would easily reduce the

country under their dominion. These shepherds were all

very glad of this message, and came away with alacrity

altogether, being in number two hundred thousand men;

and in a little time they came to Avaris. And now Ameno-

phis, the king of Egypt, upon his being informed of their

invasion, was in great confusion, as calling to mind what

Amenophis, the son of Papis, had foretold him; and, in the

first place, he assembled the multitude of the Egyptians, and

took counsel with their leaders, and sent for their sacred

animals to him, especially for those that were principally

worshipped in their temples, and gave a particular charge to

the priests distinctly, that they should hide the images of

their gods with the utmost care. He also sent his son Sethos,

who was also named Harnesses, from his father, Rhampses,

being but five years old, to a friend of his. He then passed

on with the rest of the Egyptians, being three hundred

thousand of the most warlike of them, against the enemy,

who met them. Yet did he not join battle with them; but

thinking that would be to fight against the gods, he returned

back, and came to Memphis, where he took Apis and the

other sacred animals which he had sent for to him, and pre­

sently marched into Ethiopia, together with his whole army

and multitude of Egyptians; for the king of Ethiopia was

under an obligation to him; on which account he received

him, and took care of all the multitude that was with him,

while the country supplied all that was necessary for the food

of the men. He also allotted cities and villages for this

exile, that was to be from its beginning during those fatally

determined thirteen years. Moreover, he pitched a camp

for his Ethiopian army as a guard to king Amenophis, upon

the borders of Egypt. And this was the state of things in

Ethiopia. But for the people of Jerusalem, when they came

down together with the polluted Egyptians, they treated the

men in such a barbarous manner, that those who saw how

they subdued the forementioned country, and the horrid

wickedness they were guilty of, thought it a most dreadful

thing; for they did not only set the cities and villages on fire,

