132 THE LAKE ASPHALTITIS. [b. IV.

air, it becomes exceeding cold, and becomes of a nature quite

contrary to the ambient air: as in winter again it becomes

warm; and if you go into it, it appears very gentle. The

ambient air is here also of so good a temperature, that the

people of the country are clothed in linen only, even when

snow covers the rest of Judea. This place is one hundred

and fifty furlongs from Jerusalem, and sixty from Jordan.

The country, as far as Jerusalem, is desert and stony; but

that as far as Jordan and the lake Asphaltitis lies lower in足

deed, though it be equally desert and barren. But so much

shall suffice to have said about Jericho, and of the great hap足

piness of its situation.

4. The nature of the lake Asphaltitis is also worth de足

scribing. It is, as I have said already, bitter and unfruitful.

It is so light [or thick] that it bears up the heaviest things

that are thrown into it; nor is it easy for any one to make

things sink therein to the bottom if he had a mind so to do.

Accordingly, when Vespasian went to see it, he commanded

that some who could not swim should have their hands tied

behind them and be thrown into the deep, when it so happened

that they all swam, as if a wind had forced them upwards.

Moreover, the change of the color of this lake is wonderful,

for it changes its appearance thrice every day, and as the

rays of the sun fall differently upon it, the light is variously

reflected. However, it casts up black clods of bitumen in

many parts of it; these swim at the top of the water, and re足

semble both in shape and bigness headless bulls: and when

the laborers that belong to the lake come to it, and catch hold

of it as it hangs together, they draw it into their ships; but

when the ship is full, it is not easy to cut off the rest, for it

is so tenacious as to make the ship hang upon its clods till

they set it loose with the menstrual blood of women, and with

urine, to which alone it yields. This bitumen is not only

useful for the caulking of ships, but for the cure of men's

bodies: accordingly, it is mixed in a great many medicines.

The length of this lake is five hundred and eighty furlongs,

where it is extended as far as Zoar, in Arabia ; and its breadth

is a hundred and fifty. The country of Sodom borders upon

