122 THE TYRANNY OF JOHN. [B. IV.

the opinions of others, and giving out injunctions of his own,

in a very imperious manner, so that it was evident he was

setting up a monarchical power. Now some submitted to

him out of their fear of him, and others out of their good-will

to him; for he was a shrewd man to entice men to him, both

by deluding them and putting cheats upon them. Nay, many

there were that thought they should be safer themselves, if

the causes of their past insolent actions should now be reduced

to one head, and not to a great many. His activity was so

great, and that both in action and in counsel, that he had

not a few guards about him ; and yet there was a great party

of his antagonists that left him; among whom envy at him

weighed a great deal, while they thought it a very heavy

thing to be in subjection to one that was formerly their equal.

But the main reason that moved men against him was the

dread of monarchy, for they could not hope easily to put an

end to his power if he had once obtained it; and yet they

knew that he would have this pretence always against them,

that they had opposed him when he was first advanced; while

every one chose rather to suffer any thing whatsoever in war,

than that, when they had been in a voluntary slavery for some

time, they should afterward perish. So the sedition was di­

vided into two parts, and John reigned in opposition to his

adversaries over one of them: but for their leaders they

watched one another, nor did they at all, or at least very

little, meddle with arms in their quarrels; but they fought

earnestly against the people, and contended one with another

which of them should bring home the greatest prey. But

because the city had to struggle with three of the greatest

misfortunes, war, and tyranny, and sedition, it appeared upon

the comparison that the war was the least troublesome to the

populace of them all. Accordingly they ran away from their

own houses to foreigners, and obtained that preservation from

the Romans which they despaired to obtain among their own

people.

2. And now a fourth misfortune arose, in order to bring

our nation to destruction. There was a fortress of very great

strength not far from Jerusalem, which had been built by our

