18 THE ROMAN ARMIES [B. irX.

2. As for what is within the camp, it is set apart for tents,

but the outward circumference hath the resemblance to a wall,

and is adorned with towers at equal distances, where between

the towers stand the engines for throwing arrows and darts,

and for slinging stones, and where they lay all other engines

that can annoy the enemy, all ready for their several opera­

tions. They also erect four gates, one at every sido of tho

circumference, and those large enough for the entrance of the

beasts, and wide enough for making excursions, if occasion

should require. They divide tho camp within into streets

very conveniently, and place the tents of the commanders in

the middle; but in the very midst of all is the general's own

tent, in the nature of a temple, insomuch that it appears to be

a city built on the sudden, with its market-place, and place

for handicraft trades, and with seats for the officers superior

and inferior, where, if any differences arise, their causes are

heard and determined. The camp, and all that is in it, is

encompassed with a wall round about, and that sooner than

one would imagine, and this by the multitude and the skill

of the laborers; and, if occasion require, a trench is drawn

round the whole, whose depth is four cubits, and its breadth

equal.

3. When they have thus secured themselves, they live

together by companies, with quietness and decency, as are

all their other affairs managed with good order and security.

Each company hath also their wood, and their corn, and

their water brought them, when they stand in need of them;

for they neither sup nor dine as they please themselves

singly, but all together. Their times also for sleeping, and

watching, and rising, are notified beforehand by tho sound

of trumpets, nor is any thing done without such a signal:

and in the morning the soldiery go every one to their cen­

turions, and these centurions to their tribunes, to salute

them; with whom all the superior officers go to the general

of the whole army, who then gives them of course the watch­

word, and other orders, to be by them carried to all that are

under their command; which is also observed when they go

to fight, and thereby they turn themselves about on the

