C.X.] THE RIVER JORDAN. 67

country adjoining to it. Its breadth is forty furlongs; and

its length one hundred and forty; its waters are sweet, and

very agreeable for drinking, for they are finer than the thick

waters of other fens: the lake is also pure, and on every side

ends directly at the shores and at the sand: it is also of a

temperate nature when you draw it up, and of a more gentle

nature than river or fountain water, and yet always cooler

than one would expect in so diffuse a place as this is : now

when this water is kept in the open air, it is as cold as that

snow which the country people are accustomed to make by

night in summer. There are several kinds of fish in it,

different both to the taste and the sight from those elsewhere.

It is divided into two parts by the river Jordan. Now

Panium is thought to be the fountain of Jordan, but in reality

it is carried thither after an occult manner from the place

called Phiala: this place lies as you go up to Trachonitis,

and is a hundred and twenty furlongs from Caesarea, and is

not far out of the road on the right hand; and, indeed, it

hath its name of Phiala [vial or bowl] very justly, from the

roundness of its circumference, as being round like a wheel;

its water continues always up to its edges, without either

sinking or running over. And as this origin of Jordan was

formerly not known, it was discovered so to be when Philip

was tetrarch of Trachonitis; for he had chaff thrown into

Phiala, and it was found at Panium, where the ancients

thought the fountain-head of the river was, whither it had

been, therefore, carried [by the waters.] As for Panium

itself, its natural beauty had been improved by the royal

liberality of Agrippa, and adorned at his expenses. Now

Jordan's visible stream arises from this cavern, and divides

the marshes and fens of the lake Semechonitis; and when it

hath run another hundred and twenty furlongs, it first

passes by the city Julias, and then passes through the middle

of the lake Gennesareth; after which it runs a long way over

a desert, and then makes its exit into the lake Asphaltitis.

8. The country also that lies over against this lake hath

the same name of Gennesareth; its nature is wonderful as

well as its beauty; its soil is so fruitful that all sorts of trees

