148 VESPASIAN, EMPEROR. [B. IV.

such as sail within three hundred furlongs of it, that ships

may cast anchor a great way off in the night-time, by reason

of the difficulty of sailing nearer. About this island are

built very great piers, the handy-work of men, against which,

when the sea dashes itself, and its waves are broken against

those boundaries, the navigation becomes very troublesome,

and the entrance through so narrow a passage is rendered

dangerous ; yet is the haven itself, when you are got into it,

a very safe one, and of thirty furlongs in largeness: into

which is brought what the country wants in order to its

happiness; as also what abundance the country affords, more

than it wants itself, is hence distributed into all the habitable

earth.

G. Justly, therefore, did Vespasian desire to obtain that

government, in order to corroborate his attempts upon the

whole empire; so he immediately sent to Tiberius Alexander,

who was then governor of Egypt and of Alexandria, and

informed him what the army had put him upon, and how he,

being forced to accept of the burden of government, was de­

sirous to have him for his confederate and supporter. Now

as soon as ever Alexander had read this letter, he readily

obliged the legions and the multitude to take the oath of

fidelity to Vespasian, both which willingly complied with

him, as already acquainted with the courage of the man from

that his conduct in their neighborhood. Accordingly, Ves­

pasian, looking upon himself as already intrusted with the

government, got all things ready for his journey [to Rome.]

Now fame carried this news abroad more suddenly than one

could have thought, that he was emperor over the east;

upon which every city kept festivals, and celebrated sacrifices

and oblations for such good news: the legions also that were

in Mysia and Pannonia, who had been in commotion a little

before, on account of this insolent attempt of Vitellius, were

very glad to take the oath of fidelity to Vespasian upon his

coming to the empire. Vespasian then removed from Cajsarea

to Berytus, where many embassages came to him from Syria

and many from other provinces, bringing with them from

every city crowns and the congratulations of the people.

