384 FLAVIUS JOSEPH US [B. I.

course with him. The account is this, as written down by

him:—" Now for a great part of what this Jew said, it would

be too long to recite it; but what includes in it both wonder

and philosophy, it may not be amiss to discourse of. Now,

that I may be plain with thee, Hyperochides, I shall herein

seem to thee to relate wonders, and what will resemble dreams

themselves. Hereupon Hyperochides answered modestly,

and said, for that very reason it is that all of us arc very

desirous of hearing what thou art going to say. Then, re­

plied Aristotle, for this cause it will be the best way to imi­

tate that rule of the rhetoricians, which requires us first to

give an account of the man, and of what nation he was, that

so we may not contradict our master's directions. Then

said Hyperochides, go on, if it so pleases thee. This man,

then, [answered Aristotle,] was by birth a Jew, and came

from Celesyria; these Jews are derived from the Indian

philosophers ; they are named by the Indians Calami, and

by the Syrians Judwi, and took their name from the country

they inhabit, which is called Judea; but for the name of

their city, it is a very awkward one, for they call it Jeru­

salem. Now this man, when he was hospitably treated by a

great many, came down from the upper country to the places

near the sea, and became a Grecian not only in his language,

but in his soul also : insomuch that when we ourselves hap­

pened to be in Asia about the same places whither he came,

he conversed with us, and with other philosophical persons,

and made a trial of our skill in philosophy; and as he had

lived with many learned men, he communicated to us more

information than he received from us." This is Aristotle's

account of the matter, as given us by Clearchus; which

Aristotle discoursed also particularly of the great and

wonderful fortitude of this Jew in his diet and continent

way of living, as those that please may learn more about

him from Clearchus's book itself; for I avoid setting down

any more than is sufficient for my purpose. Now Clearchus

said this by way of digression, for his main design was of

another nature. But for Hecatcus of Abdcra, who was both

a philosopher and one very useful in an active life, he was

