DISSERTATION I. 475

like to what we use, declaring that the same name of Christ

belongs to him, and writes of his ineffable generation of tho

Father after such a manner as cannot be blamed; which thing

may perhaps raise a doubt in some, whether Josephus were

the author of the work, though the phraseology does not at

all differ from this man's other works. However, I have

found in some papers, that this discourse was not written by

Josephus, but by one Caius a presbyter.

God. ccxxxviii.] Herod the tetrarch of Galileo and of Pc-

rea, the son of Herod the Great, fell in love, as Josephus

says, with the wife of his brother Philip, whose name was

Herodias, who was the grand-daughter of Herod the Great,

by his son Aristobulus, whom he had slain. Agrippa was

also her brother. Now Herod took her away from her hus­

band and married her. This is he that slew John the Baptist,

that great man, the forerunner [of Christ,] being afraid (as

Josephus says) least he should raise a sedition among the

people; for they all followed the directions of John, on account

of the excellency of his virtue. In his time was the passion

of our Saviour.

Cod. xxiii.] I have read the Chronicle of Justus of Tiberias.

He omits the greatest part of what was most necessary to bo

related; but as infected with Jewish prejudices, being also

himself a Jew by birth, he makes no mention at all of the

advent, or of the acts done, or of the miracles wrought by

Christ.

The time uncertain. Macarius in Actis sanctorum, torn.

v. p. 149, ap. Fabric Joseph, p. 61. — Josephus a priest of

Jerusalem, and one that wrote with truth the history of the

Jewish affairs, bears witness that Christ, the true God, was

incarnate and crucified, and the third day rose again; whose

writings are reposited in the public library. Thus he says :

Now there was about this time Jesus, a wise man, if it be

lawful to call him a man, for he was a doer of wonderful

works, a teacher of such men as receive the truth with pleas­

ure : he drew over to him both many of the Jews, and many

of the Gentiles also: this was the Christ. And when Pilate,

at the suggestion of the principal men among us, had con­

