C. V.] THE ID UME AN S. Ill

were in; but when these were also made sensible that the

Idumeans were come in, none of them durst come to their

assistance; only they returned the terrible echo of wailing,

and lamented their misfortunes. A great howling of the

women was excited also, and every one of the guards was in

danger of being killed. The zealots also joined in the shouts

raised by the Idumeans ; and the storm itself rendered the

cry more terrible: nor did the Idumeans spare any body;

for as they are naturally a most barbarous and bloody nation,

and had been distressed by the tempest, they made use of

their weapons against those that had shut the gates against

them, and acted in the same manner as to those that suppli­

cated for their lives, and to those that fought them, insomuch

that they ran through those with their swords who desired

them to remember the relation there was between them, and

begged of them to have regard to their common temple. Now

there was at present neither any place for flight, nor any

hope of preservation, but as they were driven one upon

another in heaps, so were they slain. Thus the greater part

were driven together by force, as there was now no place of

retirement, and the murderers were upon them, and, having

no other way, threw themselves down headlong into the city;

whereby, in my opinion, they underwent a more miserable

destruction than that which they avoided, because that was a

voluntary one. And now the outer temple was all of it

overflowed with blood; and that day, as it came on, saw eight

thousand five hundred dead bodies there.

2. But the rage of the Idumeans was not satiated by these

slaughters ; but they now betook themselves to the city, and

plundered every house, and slew every one they met: and

for the other multitude they esteemed it needless to go on

with killing them, but they sought for the high-priests, and

the generality went with the greatest zeal against them : and

as soon as they caught them they slew them, and then stand­

ing upon their dead bodies, in way of jest, upbraided Ananus

with his kindness to the people, and Jesus with his speech

made to them from the wall. Nay, they proceeded to that

degree of impiety, as to cast away their dead bodies without

