308 TIIE SARMATIANS INVADE MYSIA. [B. VII.

brought to punishment; for as soon as ever the news of their

revolt was come to Rome, and Caesar Domitian was made ac­

quainted with it, ho made no delay even at that his age, when

he was exceeding young, but undertook this weighty affair.

He had a courageous mind from his father, and had made

greater improvements than belonged to such an age: accord­

ingly, he marched against the barbarians immediately; where­

upon their hearts failed them at the very rumor of his ap­

proach, and they submitted themselves to him with fear, and

thought it a happy thing that they were brought under their

old yoke again without suffering any farther mischiefs. When,

therefore, Domitian had settled all the affairs of Gaul in such

good order, that it would not be easily put into disorder any

more, he returned to Rome with honor and glory, as having

performed such exploits as were above his own age, but worthy

of so great a father.

3. At the very same time with the forementioned revolt of

the Germans, did the bold attempt of the Scythians against

the Romans concur; for those Scythians who are called Sar-

matians, being a very numerous people, transported them­

selves over the Danube into Mysia without being perceived;

after which by their violence and entirely unexpected assault,

they slew a great many of the Romans that guarded the

frontiers; and as the consular legate Fonteius Agrippa came

to meet them, and fought courageously against them, he was

slain by them. They then overran all the region that had

been subject to him, tearing and rending every thing that fell

in their way. But when Vespasian was informed of what had

happened, and how Mysia was laid waste, he sent away Ru-

brius Gallus to punish these Sarmatians; by whose means

many of them perished in the battles he fought against them,

and that part which escaped fled with fear to their own country.

So when this general had put an end to the war, he provided

for the future security of the country also; for ho placed more

and more numerous garrisons in the place, till he made it al­

together impossible for the barbarians to pass over the river any

more. And thus had this war in Mysia a sudden conclusion.

