B. I.] AGAINST AFION. 359

but little on any good foundation when they set to write, but

rather wrote their histories from their own conjectures ?

Accordingly, they confute one another in their own books to

purpose, and are not ashamed to give us the most contra­

dictory accounts of the same things; and I should spend my

time to little purpose, if I should pretend to teach the Greeks

that which they know better than I already, what a great

disagreement there is between Hellanicus and Acusilaus about

their genealogies; in how many cases Acusilaus corrects

Hesiod; or after what manner Ephorus demonstrates Hella­

nicus to have told lies in the greatest part of his history;

as does Timeus in like manner as to Ephorus, and the suc­

ceeding writers do to Timeus, and all the later writers do to

Herodotus;1 nor could Timeus agree with Antiochus and

Philistius, or with Callias, about the Sicilian history, no

more than do the several writers of the Athidae follow one

another about the Athenian affairs; nor do the historians the

like, that wrote the Argolies, about the affairs of the Argives.

And now what need I say any more about particular cities

and smaller places, while in the most approved writers of the

expedition of the Persians, and of the actions which were

therein performed, there are so great differences? Nay,

1 It well deserves to be considered, that Josephus here says, how all the

following Greek historians looked on Herodotus as a fabulous author, and

presently, sect. 14, how Manetho, the most authentic writer of the Egyptian

history, greatly complains of his mistakes in the Egyptian affairs; as also

that Strabo, li. xi. p. 607, the most accurate geographer and historian,

esteemed him such; that Xenophon, the much more accurate historian in

the days of Cyrus, implies, that Herodotus's accounts of that great man

are almost entirely romantic. See the note on Antiq. B. xi. ch. ii. sect. 1,

and Hutchinson's Prolegomena to his edition of Xenophon's Kty« Ilcutsia that

we have already seen in the note on Antiq. B. viii. chap. x. sect. 3, how

very little Herodotus knew about the Jewish affairs and country, and that

he greatly affected what we call the marvellous, as Monsieur Rollin has

lately and justly determined; whence we are not always to depend on the

authority of Herodotus, where it is unsupported by other evidence, but

ought to compare the other evidence with his, .ind, if it preponderate, to

prefer it before his. I do not mean by this that Herodotus wilfully related

what he believed to be false (as Ctesias seems to have done,) but that he

often wanted evidence, and sometimes preferred what was marvellous to

what was best attested as really true.

