26 VESPASIAN. [B. III.

rias, and went into Jotapata, and raised the drooping spirits

of the Jews. And a certain deserter told this good news to

Vespasian, that Josephus had removed himself thither, which

made him make haste to the city, as supposing that with

taking that he should take all Judea, in case he could but

withal get Josephus under his power. So he took this news

to be of the vastest advantage to him, and believed it to be

brought about by the providence of God, that he who appeared

to be the most prudent man of all their enemies, had of his

own accord shut himself up in a place of sure custody. Ac­

cordingly, he sent Placidus with a thousand horsemen, and

Ebutius a decurion, a person that was of eminency both in

counsel and in action, to encompass the city round, that Jo­

sephus might not escape away privately.

4. Vespasian also, the very next day, took his whole army

and followed them, and by marching till late in the evening,

arrived then at Jotapata; and bringing his army to the

northern side of the city, he pitched his camp on a certain

small hill which was seven furlongs from the city, and still

greatly endeavored to be well seen by the enemy, to put

them into a consternation; which was, indeed, so terrible to

the Jews immediately, that no one of them durst go out

beyond the wall. Yet did the Romans put off the attack at

that time, because they had marched all the day, although

they placed a double row of battalions round the city, with a

third row beyond them round the whole, which consisted of

cavalry, in order to stop up every way for an exit; which

thing making the Jews despair of escaping, excited them to

act more boldly; for nothing makes men fight so desperately

in war as necessity.

5. Now when the next day an assault was made by the

Romans, the Jews at first stayed out of the walls, and

opposed them, and met them, as having formed themselves a

camp before the city walls. But when Vespasian had set

against them the archers and slingers, and the whole mul­

titude that could throw to a great distance, he permitted

them to go to work, while he himself with the footmen got

upon an acclivity, whence the city might easily be taken.

