DISSERTATION III. 525

yet without any stain to his honor as a general.1 He was

received in Judea by three legions, the fifth and the tenth,

and the fifteenth, who were Vespasian's old soldiers. Syria

also afforded him the twelfth, and Alexandria soldiers out of

the twenty-second and twenty-third legions. Twenty cohorts2

6f auxiliaries accompanied him, as also eight troops of horse.

King Agrippa also was there, and King Sohemus, and the

auxiliaries of King Antiochus, and a strong body of Arabians,

who, as is usual in nations that are neighbors to one another,

went with their accustomed hatred against the Jews, with

many others out of the city of Rome, as every one's hopes

led him of getting early into the general's favor, before others

should prevent them.

He entered into the borders of the enemies' country with

these forces, in exact order of war: and looking carefully

about him, and being ready for battle, he pitched his camp

not far from Jerusalem.

Chap. X.] When, therefore, he had pitched his camp, as

we said just now, before the walls of Jerusalem, he pompously

showed3 his legions ready for an engagement.

Chap. XI.] The Jews formed their camp under the very

walls4 [of the city,] and if they succeeded, they resolved to

venture farther, but if they were beaten back, that was their

place of refuge. When a body of cavalry5 were sent against

them, and with them cohorts, that were expedite and nimble,

the fight was doubtful; but soon afterwards the enemies gave

ground, and on the following days there were frequent skir­

mishes before the gates, till after many losses they were driven

1 This character of Titus agrees exactly with the history of Josephus upon

all occasions.

- These twenty cohorts anil eight troops of horse are not directly enume­  
rated by Josephus, Autiq. b. v. chap. i. sect. 0.

a This word in Tacitus, pompously showed his legions, looks as if that pom­

pous show, which was some months afterward, in Josephus, ran in his mind,

Antiq. b. v. chap. ix. sect. 1.

4 These first bickerings and battles near the walls of Jerusalem are at largo

in Josephus, Antiq. b. v. chap. ii.

4 Josephus distinctly mentions these horsemen or cayalry, 600 in number,

among whom Titus had like to have been slain or taken prisoner, Antiq. b.

v. chap. ii. sect. 1-3.

