C. IX.] JERUSALEM. 135

when he heard that Galba was made emperor, he attempted

nothing till he also should send him some directions about

the war: however, he sent his son Titus to him to salute him,

and to receive his commands about the Jews. Upon the very

same errand did king Agrippa sail along with Titus to Galba:

but as they were sailing in their long ships by the coasts of

Achaia, for it was winter-time, they heard that Galba was

slain before they could get to him, after he had reigned seven

months and as many days. After whom Otho took the go­

vernment, and undertook the management of public affairs.

So Agrippa resolved to go on to Rome without any terror,

on account of the change in the government; but Titus, by a

divine impulse, sailed back from Greece to Syria, and came

in great haste to Caesarea, to his father. And now they were

both in suspense about the public affairs, the Roman empire

being then in a fluctuating condition, and did not go on with

their expedition against the Jews, but thought that to make

any attack upon foreigners was now unseasonable, on account

of the solicitude they were in for their own country.

3. And now there arose another war at Jerusalem. There

was a son of Giora, one Simon, by birth of Gerasa, a young

man not so cunning, indeed, as John [of Gischala,] who had

already seized upon the city, but superior in strength of

body and courage: on which account, when he had been

driven away from that Acrabattene toparchy which he once

had by Ananus the high-priest, he came to those robbers who

had seized upon Masada. At the first they suspected him,

and only permitted him to come with the woman he brought

with him into the lower part of the fortress, while they dwelt

in the upper part of it themselves. However, his manners

so well agreed with theirs, and he seemed so trusty a man,

that he went out with them, and ravaged and destroyed the

country with them about Masada: yet when he persuaded

them to undertake greater things, he could not prevail with

. them so to do; for as they were accustomed to dwell in that

citadel, they were afraid of going far from that which was

their hiding place: but he affecting to tyrannize, and being

fond of greatness, when he had heard of the death of Ananus

