272 CONFLAGRATIONS. [B. \L

the echo, as well as the mountains round about [the city,]

and augmented the force of the entire noise. Yet was the

misery itself more terrible than this disorder; for one would

have thought that the hill itself, on which the temple stood,

was seething hot, as full of fire on every part of it; that the

blood was larger in quantity than the fire, and those that

were slain more in number than those that slew them; for

the ground did nowhere appear visible, for the dead bodies

that lay on it; but the soldiers went over heaps of those

bodies, as they ran upon such as fled from them. And now

it was that the multitude of the robbers were thrust out [of

the inner court of the temple] by the Romans, and had much

ado to get into the outward court, and from thence into the

city, while the remainder of the populace fled into the cloister

of that outer court. As for the priests, some of them plucked

up from the holy house the spikesl that were upon it, with

their bases, which were made of lead, and shot them at the

Romans instead of darts. But then, as they gained nothing

by so doing, and as the fire burst out upon them, they re­

tired to the wall, that was eight cubits broad, and there they

tarried; yet did two of these of eminence among them, who

might have saved themselves by going over to the Romans,

or have borne up with courage, and taken their fortune with

the others, throw themselves into the fire, and were burnt,

together with the holy house: their names were Meirug, the

son of Belgas, and Joseph, the son of Daleus.

2. And now the Romans, judging that it was in vain to

spare what was round about the holy house, burnt all those

places, as also the remains of the cloisters and the gates, two

excepted; the one on the cast side and the other on the

south; both which, however, they burnt afterward. They

also burnt down the treasury-chambers, in which was au

immense quantity of money, and an immense number of

garments, and other precious goods there reposited; and, to

1 Reland, I think, here judges well, when he interprets these spikes (of

those that stood on the top of the holy house) with sharp points: they were

fixed into lead to prevent the birds from sitting there, and defiling the holy

house; for such spikes there were now upon it, as Josephus himself hath

already assured us, B. v. eh. v. sect. 6.

