328 MASADA AND THE SICARII. [B. VII.

evil deeds were then left undone; nor could any one so much

as devise any bad thing that was new, so deeply were they

all infected, and strove with one another in their single

capacity, and in their communities, who should run the

greatest lengths in impiety towards God, and in unjust ac­

tions towards their neighbors, the men of power oppressing

the multitude, and the multitude earnestly laboring to destroy

the men of power. The one part were desirous of tyrannizing

over others, and the rest of offering violence to others, and

of plundering such as were richer than themselves. They

were the Sicarii who first began these transgressions, and

first became barbarous towards those allied to them, and left

no words of reproach unsaid, and no works of perdition un­

tried, in order to destroy those whom their contrivances

affected. Yet did John demonstrate by his actions that these

Sicarii were more moderate than he was himself; for he not

only slew all such as gave him good counsel to do what was

right, but treated them worst of all, as the most bitter enemies

that he had among all the citizens; nay, he filled his entire

country with ten thousand instances of wickedness, such as a

man, who was already hardened sufficiently in his impiety

towards God, would naturally do; for the food was unlawful

that was set upon his table, and he rejected those purifications

that the law of his country had ordained: so that it was no

longer a wonder if he, who was so mad in his impiety towards

God, did not observe any rules of gentleness and common

affection towards men. Again, therefore, what mischief was

there which Simon the son of Gioras did not do ? or what

kind of abuses did he abstain from, as to those very free men

who had set him up for a tyrant ? What friendship or

kindred were there that did not make him more bold in his

daily murders ? for they looked upon the doing of mischief to

strangers only as a work beneath their courage, but thought

that their barbarity towards their nearest relations would be

a glorious demonstration thereof. The Idumeans also strove

with these men which should be guilty of the greatest mad­

ness ; for they [all,] vile wretehes as they were, cut the

throats of the high-priests, that so no part of a religious

