B. I.] AGAINSTAPION. 368

suspecting that they had conversation with some foreigners.

But what is the strongest argument of our exact management

in this matter, is what I am now going to say, that we have

the names of our high-priests from father to son set down in

our records, for the interval of two thousand years ; and if

any of these have been transgressors of these rules, they are

prohibited to present themselves at the altar, or to be par­

takers of any other of our purifications: and this is justly or

rather necessarily done, because every one is not permitted

of his accord to be a writer, nor is there any disagreement in

what is written, they being only prophets that have written

the original and earliest accounts of things as, they learned

them of God himself by inspiration: and others have written

what hath happened in their own times, and that in a very

distinct manner also.

8. For we have not an innumerable multitude of hooks

among us, disagreeing from and contradicting one another

[as the Greeks have,] but only twenty-two books,1 which con­

tain the records of all the past times, which are justly believed

to be divine. And of them five belong to Moses, which con­

tain his laws, and the traditions of the origin of mankind till

his death. This interval of time was little short of three

thousand years. But as to the time from the death of Moses

till the reign of Artaxerxes, king of Persia, who reigned after

Xerxes, the prophets, who were after Moses, wrote down what

was done in their times in thirteen books. The remaining

four books contain hymns to God, and precepts for the con­

duct of human life. It is true our history hath been written

since Artaxerxes very particularly, but hath not been es­

teemed of the like authority with the former by our forefa­

thers, because there hath not been an exact succession of pro­

phets since that time: and how firmly we have given credit

1 Which were these twenty-two sacred books of the Old Testament, see the

Supplement to the Essay on the Old Testament, p. Uo-29, viz., those we call

canonical, all excepting the Canticles ; but still with this farther
exception,

that the first book of apocryphal Esdras bo taken into that number, instead

of our caaonical Ezra, which seems to bo no more than a later epitome of tho

other; which two books of Canticles and Ezra it no way appears that our

Joscphus ever saw.

