504 DISSERTATION II.

10. That the firm and just foundation of Abraham's faith

and assurance in God for such a resurrection was this, besides

the general consideration of the divine veracity, that during

the whole time of his sojourning in strange countries, in

Canaan and Egypt, ever since he had been called out of

Chaldea or Mesopotamia, at seventy-five years of age,1 he

had had constant experience of a special, of an overruling,

of a kind and gracious Providence over him, till this his

125th year, which against all human views had continually

blessed him and enriched him, and in his elder age had given

him first Ishmael by Hagar, and afterward promised him

Isaac to " spring2 from his own body now dead,3 and from

the deadness of Sarah's womb, when she was past age, and

when it ceased to be with Sarah after the manner of women,"4

nnd had actually performed that and every other promise,

how improbable soever that performance had appeared, he

had ever made to him, and this during fifty entire years to­

gether ; so that although, at his first exit out of Chaldea cr

Mesopotamia, he might have been tempted to " stagger at

such a promise of God through unbelief,"5 yet might he now

after fifty years constant experience he justly strong in faith,

giving glory to God, as being fully persuaded, that what God

had promised, the resurrection of Isaac, he was both able and

willing to perform.

11. That this assurance, therefore, that God, if he per­

mitted Isaac to be slain, would infallibly raise him again from

the dead, entirely alters the state of the case of Abraham's

sacrificing Isaac to the true God, from that of all other

human sacrifices whatsoever offered to false ones, all those-

others being done without the least promise or prospect of

such a resurrection ; and this, indeed, takes away all pretence

of injustice in the divine command, as well as of all inhu­

manity or cruelty in Abraham's obedience to it.

I 12. That, upon the whole, this command to Abraham, and

what followed upon it, looks so very like an intention of God

to typify or represent beforehand in Isaac, a beloved or only

lGm. xii. 4. 'Rom. iv. 19. s Ileb. xi. 11.

<Oen.ZTiii.il. 6 Rom. iv. 20, 21.

