B. II.") AGAINST APION. 1^9

exercise of virtue; for this way of worship of God is the

most holy of all others.

24. There ought also to he hut One Temple for One God:

for likeness is the constant foundation of agreement. This

temple ought to he common to all men, because he is the

common God of all men. His priests arc to be continually

about his worship ; over whom he that is the first by his birth

is to be their ruler perpetually. His business must be to offer

sacrifices to God, together with those priests that are joined

with him; to see that the laws be observed; to determine

controversies, and to punish those that are convicted of in足

justice : while he that does not submit to him shall be subject

to the same punishment as if he had been guilty of impiety

towards God himself. When we offer sacrifices to him, we

do it not in order to surfeit ourselves, or to be drunken; for

such excesses are against the will of God and would be an

occasion of injuries and of luxury; but by keeping ourselves

sober, orderly, and ready for our other occupations, and being

more temperate than others. And for our duty at the sacri足

fices themselves, we ought, in the first place, to pray1 for the

common welfare of all, and after that for our own; for wo

are made for fellowship one with another : and he who prefers

the common good before what is peculiar to himself is above

all acceptable to God. And let our prayers and supplications

be made humbly to God, not [so much] that he would give

us what is good (for he hath already given that of his own

accord, and hath proposed the same publicly to all,) as that

we may duly receive it, and when we have received it, may

' We may hero observe how known a thing it was among the Jews and

heathens, in this and many other instances, that sacrifices were still accom足

panied with prayers ; whence most probably came those phrases of the sacri足

fice of prayer, the sacrifice of praise, the sacrifice of thanksgiving.
However

those ancient forms used at sacrifices are now generally lost, to the no small

damage of true religion. It is here also exceeding remarkable, that although

the temple of Jerusalem was built as the only place where the whole nation

of the Jews were to offer their sacrifices, yet is there no mention of the

sacrifices themselvei", but of prayers only, in Solomon's long and famous form

of devotion at its dedication; 1 Kings, xviii; 2 Chron. vi. See also many

passages cited in the Apostolical Constitutions, vii. 37, and Of the War
above,

1i. vii. ch. v. sect. 0.

