182 THE TEMPLE. [B. V.

gate was cut out of its wall over against the first gate. There

was also on the other sides one southern and one northern

gate, through which was a passage into the court of the women;

for as to the other gates the women were not allowed to pass

through them: nor when they went through their own gate

could they go beyond their own wall. This place was allotted

to the women of our own country, and of other countries, pro足

vided they were of the same nation, and that equally: the

western part of this court had no gate at all, but the wall was

built entire on that side. But then the cloisters which were

betwixt the gates extended from the wall inward before the

chambers, for they were supported by very fine and large

pillars. These cloisters were single, and, excepting their mag足

nitude, were no way inferior to those of the lower court.

3. Now nine of these gates were on every side covered over

with gold and silver, as were the jambs of their doors and

their lintels: but there was one gate that was without [the

inward court of] the holy house, which was of Corinthian

brass, and greatly excelled those that were only covered over

with silver and gold. Each gate had two doors, whose height

was severally thirty cubits, and their breadth fifteen. How足

ever, they had large spaces within of thirty cubits, and had

on each side rooms, and those, both in breadth and in length,

built like towers, and their height was above forty cubits.

Two pillars did also support these rooms, and were in circum足

ference twelve cubits. Now the magnitudes of the other gates

were equal one to another ; but that over the Corinthian gate,

which opened on the east over against the gate of the holy

house itself, was much larger, for its h.-lght was fifty cubits,

and its doors were forty cubits, and it was adorned after a

most costly manner, as having much richer and thicker plates

of silver and gold upon them than the other. These nine

gates had that silver and gold poured upon them by Alexander,

the father of Tiberius. Now there were fifteen steps which led

from the wall of the court of the women to this greater sate ;

whereas those that led thither from the other gates were five

steps shorter.

4. As to the holy house itself, which was placed in the

