C. XIII.] AND SACRILEGE. 233

were fighting for the Divinity, without fear; and that such

whoso warfare is for the temple, should live of the temple: on

which account he emptied the vessels of that sacred wine and

oil which the priests kept to be poured on the burnt-offerings,

and which lay in the inner court of the temple, and distributed

it among the multitude, who, in their anointing themselves,

and drinking, used [each of them] above a hin of them. And

here I cannot but speak my mind, and what the concern I am

under dictates to me, and it is this : — I suppose, that had

the Romans made any longer delay in coming against these

villains, that the city would either have been swallowed up by

the ground opening upon them, or been overflowed by water,

or else been destroyed by such thunder as the country of

Sodom' perished by; for it had brought forth a generation of

men much more atheistical than were those that suffered such

punishments; for by their madness it was that all the people

came to be destroyed.

7. And, indeed, why do I relate these particular calamities?

while Manneus, the son of Lazarus, came running to Titus at

this very time, and told him, that there had been carried out

through that one gate, which was intrusted to his care, no

fewer than a hundred and fifteen thousand eight hundred and

eighty dead bodies, in the interval between the fourteenth

day of the month Xanthicus [Nisan,] when the Romans

pitched their camp by the city, and the first day of the month

Panemus [Tamuz.] This was itself a prodigious multitude:

and though this man was not himself set as a governor at

that gate, yet was he appointed to pay the public stipend for

carrying these bodies out, and so was obliged of necessity to

number them, while the rest were buried with their relations ;

though all their burial was but this, to bring them away, and

1 Josephus, both here and before, B. iv. ch. viii. sect. 4, esteems the land

of Sodom not as part of the lake Asphaltitis, or under its waters, but near it

only, as Tacitus also took the samo notion from him, Hist. v. vi. 7, which

the great Reland takes to be the very truth, both on his note on this place,

and in his Palestina, torn. i. p. 2o4-i;o8; though I rather suppose part of

that region of rentapolis to be now under the waters of the south part of

that sea, but perhaps not the whole country.

20*

