512 DISSERTATION III.

for no assistance from any of the gods, or from any of man足

kind, since they had been abandoned by both, but bade them

believe in him, as in a celestial leader,1 by whose help they

had already gotten clear of their present miseries. They

agreed to it; and although they were unacquainted with every

thing, they began their journey at random : but nothing tired

them so much as want of water; and now they laid themselves

down on the ground to a great extent, as just ready to perish,

when a herd of wild asses came from feeding, and went to a

rock overshadowed by a grove of trees. Moses followed

them, as conjecturing that there was [thereabouts] some

grassy soil, and so he opened large sources of water for them.2

That was an case to them; and when they had journeyed

continually six entire days,a on the seventh they drove out

the inhabitants, and obtained those lands wherein their city

and temple were dedicated.

Cn\AP. IV.] As for Moses, in order to secure the nation

firmly to himself, he ordained new rites, and such as were

contrary to those of other men. All things are with them

profane which with us are sacred; and again, those practices

are allowed among them which arc by us esteemed most

abominable.1

They place the image of that animal in their most holy

place, by whose indication it was that they had escaped their

wandering condition and their thirst.5

They sacrifice rams, by way of reproach, to [Jupiter Ham足

1 This believing in Moses as in a celestial leader, seems a blind confession

of Tacitus that Moses professed to have his laws from God.

a This looks also like a plain confession of Tacitus, that Moses brought the

Jews water out of a rock in grcat plenty, which he might have from Jose-

phus, Antiq. b. iii. ch. i. sect. 7.

s Strange indeed ! that 0(10,000 men should travel above 200 miles over

the deserts of Arabia in six days, and conquer Judea the seventh.

* This is not true in general, but only so far, that the Israelites were by  
circumcision and other rites to be kept separate from the wicked and idola足

trous nations about them.

6 This strange story contradicts what the same Tacitus will tell us pre足

sently, that when Pompey went into the holy of holies he found no imaga

there.

