0. III.] THE HIGH-PRIEST ANANUS. 91

the temple of God a strong-hold for them, and a place whither

they might resort, in order to avoid the troubles they feared

from the people: the sanctuary was now become a refuge

and a shop of tyranny. They also mixed jesting among the

miseries they introduced, which was more intolerable than

what they did; for, in order to try what surprise the people

would be under, and how far their own power extended, they

undertook to dispose of the priesthood by casting lots for it,

whereas, as we have said already, it was to descend by suc­

cession in a family. The pretence they made for this strange

attempt was an ancient practice, while they said that of old

it was determined by lot; but, in trutb, it was no better than

the dissolution of an undeniable law, and a cunning contrivance

to seize upon the government, derived from those that pre­

sumed to appoint governors as they themselves pleased.

8. Hereupon they sent for one of the pontifical tribes,

which is called Eniachim,1 and cast lots which of it should

be the high-priest. By fortune the lot so fell as to demon­

strate their iniquity after the plainest manner; for it fell

upon one whose name was Phannias, the son of Samuel, of

the village Aphtha. He was a man not only unworthy of

the high-priesthood, but that did not well know what the

high-priesthood was, such a mere rustic was he; yet did they

hale this man, without his own consent, out of the country,

as if they were acting a play upon the stage, and adorned

him with a counterfeit face : they also put upon him the sacred

garments, and upon every occasion instructed him what he

was to do. This horrid piece of wickedness was sport and

pastime with them, but occasioned the other priests, who, at

a distance, saw their law made a jest of, to shed tears, and

sorely to lament the dissolution of such a sacred dignity.

9. And now the people could no longer bear the insolence

of this procedure, but did all together run zealously in order

to overthrow that tyranny: and, indeed, they were Gorion

1 This tribe or course of the high-priests here called Eniakim, seems to the

learned Mr. Lowtb, one well versed in Josephus, to be that 1 Chron. xxiv.

12, the course of Jakim, where some copies have the course of Eliakim; and I

think this to be by no means an improbable conjecture.

