136 SIMON OF GERASA. [B. IV.

ho left them, and went into the mountainous part of the

country. So he proclaimed liberty to those in slavery, and

a reward to those already free, and got together a set of

wicked men from all quarters.

4. And as he had now a strong body of men about him,

he overran the villages that lay in the mountainous country;

and when there were still more and more that came to him,

he ventured to go down into the lower parts of the country;

and since he was now become formidable to the cities, many

of the men of power were corrupted by him; so that his

army was no longer composed of slaves and robbers, but a

great many of the populace were obedient to him as to their

king. He then overran the Acrabattene toparchy, and the

places that reached as far as the great Idumea; for he built

a wall at a certain village called Nain, and made use of that

as a fortress for his own party's security; and at the valley

called Pharan, he enlarged many of the caves, and many

others he found ready for his purpose; these he made use of

as repositories for his treasures and receptacles for his prey,

and therein he laid up the fruits that he had got by rapine;

and many of his partisans had their dwelling in them ; and

ho made no secret of it that he was exercising his men before­

hand, and making preparations for the assault of Jerusalem.

5. AVhereupon the zealots, out of the dread they were in

of his attacking them, and being willing to prevent one that

was growing up to oppose them, went out against him with

their wenpons. Simon met them, and joining battle with them,

slew a considerable number of them, and drove the rest before

him into the city, but durst not trust so much upon his forces

as to make an assault upon the walls; but he resolved first

to subdue Idumea; and as he had now twenty thousand

armed men, he marched to the borders of their country.

Hereupon the rulers of the Idumeans got together on the

sudden the most warlike part of their people, about twenty-

five thousand in number, and permitted the rest to be a guard

to their own country, by reason of the incursions that were

made by the Sicarii that were at Masada. Thus they received

Simon at their borders, where they fought him, and continued

