CIV.] COME TO JERUSALEM. 107

used to be open to even all foreigners that came to worship

there. We have, indeed, come in great haste to you, and to

a war against our own countrymen: and the reason why we

have made such haste is this, that we may preserve that free足

dom which you are so unhappy as to betray. You have pro足

bably been guilty of the like crimes against those whom you

keep in custody, and have, I suppose, collected together the

like plausible pretences against them also that you make use

of against us: after which you have gotten the mastery of

those within the temple, and keep them in custody, while they

are only taking care of the public affairs. You have also

shut the gates of the city in general against nations that are

the most nearly related to you: and while you give such in足

jurious commands to others, you complain that you have

been tyrannized over by them; and fix the name of unjust

governors upon such as are tyrannized over by yourselves.

Who can bear this your abuse of words, while they have a

regard to the contrariety of your actions ? unless you mean

this, that those Idumeans do now exclude you out of your

metropolis, whom you exclude from the sacred offices of your

own country. One may, indeed, justly complain of those that

are besieged in the temple, that when they had courage

enough to punish those tyrants which they call eminent men,

and free from any accusations, because of their being your

companions in wickedness, they did not begin with you, and

thereby cut off beforehand the most dangerous parts of this

treason. But if these men have been more merciful than the

public necessity required, we that are Idumeans will preserve

this house of God, and will fight for our common country,

and will oppose by war as well those that attack them from

abroad, as those that betray them from within. Here will

we abide before the walls in our armor, until either the Ro足

mans grow weary in waiting for you, or you become friends

to liberty, and repent of what you have done against it."

5. And now did the Idumeans make an acclamation to

what Simon had said, but Jesus went away sorrowful, as

seeing that the Idumeans were against all moderate counsels,

and that the city was besieged on both sides. Nor, indeed,

