138 SIMON OF GERASA. [B. IV.

it came to a close fight they broke their ranks, and every one

retired to his own home.

7. Thus did Simon unexpectedly march into Idumea with足

out bloodshed, and made a sudden attack upon the city

Hebron, and took it; wherein he got possession of a great

deal of prey, and plundered it of a vast quantity of fruit.

Now the people of the country say that it is an ancienter

city not only than any in that country, but than Memphis

in Egypt, and, accordingly, its age is reckoned at two thou足

sand and three hundred years. They also relate that it had

been the habitation of Abram, the progenitor of the Jews,

after he had removed out of Mesopotamia ; and they say that

his posterity descended from thence into Egypt, whose monu足

ments are to this very time showed in that small city; the

fabric of which monuments are of the most excellent marble,

and wrought after the most elegant manner. There is also

there showed, at the distance of six furlongs from the city, a

very large turpentine-tree;' and as the report goes, that this

tree has continued ever since the creation of the world.

Thence did Simon make his progress over all Idumea, and

did not only ravage the cities and villages, but laid waste tho

whole country; for, besides those that were completely armed,

he had forty thousand men that followed him, insomuch that

he had not provisions enough to suffice such a multitude.

Now, besides this want of provisions that he was in, ho was

of a barbarous disposition, and bore great anger at this nation,

by which means it came to pass that Idumea was greatly de足

populated ; and as one may see all the woods behind despoiled

of their leaves by locusts, after they have been there, so was

there nothing left behind Simon's army but a desert. Some

places they burnt down, some they utterly demolished; and

whatsoever grew in the country they either trod it down or

fed upon it; and by their marches they made the ground

that was cultivated harder and more untractable than that

1 Some of the ancients cull this famous tree, or grove, an oak, others a

turpentine tree, or grove. It has been very famous in all tho past ages, and

is so, I suppose, at this day, and that particularly for an eminent mart or

meeting of merchants there every year, as the travellers inform us.

