DISSERTATION I. 467

the cause of the destruction of Jerusalem, and of the demo­

lition of the temple, and ought to have said, that their ma­

chinations against Jesus were the cause of those miseries

coming on the people, because they had slain that Christ,

who was foretold by the prophets, he, though as it were un­

willingly, and yet as one not remote from the truth, says :

" These miseries befell the Jews by way of revenge for James

the Just, who was the brother of Jesus, that was called Christ,

because they had slain him who was a most righteous person."

Now this James was he whom that genuine disciple of Jesus,

Paul, said he had seen as the Lord's brother, [Gal. i. 19;]

which relation implies not so much nearness of blood, or the

sameness of education, as it does the agreement of manners

and preaching. If, therefore, he says the desolation of Jeru­

salem befell the Jews for the sake of James, with how much

greater reason might ho have said, that it happened for the

sake of Jesus ? &c.

About A. D. 324. Uuseb. Demonstr. Evan. lib. iii. p. 124.

— Certainly the attestation of those I have already produced,

concerning our Savior may be sufficient. However, it may

not be amiss, if, over and above, we make use of Josephus

the Jew for a farther witness; who, in the eighteenth book

of his Antiquities, when he was writing the history of what

happenedunder Pilate, makes mention of our Savior in these

words: -V^Jpw there was about this time, Jesus, a wise man,

if it be lawful to call him a man, for he was a doer of won­

derful works, a teacher of such men as had a veneration for

truth; he drew over to him both many of the Jews and many

of the Gentiles: he was the Christ. And when Pilate, at the

suggestion of the principal men among us, had condemned

him to the cross, those that loved him at first did not forsake

him, for he appeared to them alive again the third day, as

the divine prophets had spoken of these, and ten thousand

other wonderful things concerning him ; whence the tribe of

Christians, so named from him, are not extinct at this day. J

If, therefore, we have this historian's testimony, that he noT'

only brought over to himself the twelve apostles with the se­

venty disciples, but many of the Jews and many of the Gen-

