C. VII.] EVENTS OF THE SIEGE. 197

the Romans. But when they fought them from the walls,

they were too hard for them ; the Romans being encouraged

by their power, joined to their skill, as were the Jews by

their boldness, which was nourished by the fear they were

in, and that hardiness which is natural to our nation under

calamities; they were also encouraged still by the hope of

deliverance, as were the Romans by their hopes of subduing

them in a little time. Nor did either side grow weary; but

attacks and fightings upon the wall, and perpetual sallies out

in bodies, were there all the day long; nor were there any

sort of warlike engagements that were not then put in use.

And the night itself had much ado to part them, when they

began to fight in the morning; nay, the night itself was

passed without sleep on both sides, and was more uneasy

than the day to them, while the one was afraid lest the wall

should be taken, and the other lest the Jews should make

sallies upon their camps: both sides also lay in their armor

during the night-time, and thereby were ready at the first

appearance of light to go to the battle. Now, among the

Jews the ambition was, who should undergo the first dangers,

and thereby gratify their commanders. Above all, they had

a great veneration and dread of Simon ; and to that degree

was he regarded by every one of those that were under him,

that at his command they were very ready to kill themselves

with their own hands. What made the Romans so courageous

was their usual custom of conquering, and disuse of being

defeated, their constant wars, and perpetual warlike exercises,

and the grandeur of their dominion : and what was now their

chief encouragement, Titus, who was present every where

with them all; for it appeared a terrible thing to grow weary

while Caesar was there, and fought bravely, as well as they

did, and was himself at once an eye-witness of such as be­

haved themselves valiantly, and he who was to reward them

also. It was, besides, esteemed an advantage at present to

have any one's valor known by Coesar, on which account

many of them appeared to have more alacrity than strength

to answer it. And now, as the Jews were about this time

standing in array before the wall, and that in a strong body,

17*

