338 blbazar's speeches. [b. vn.

then every way incapable of being hindered in their opera­

tions. It continues invisible, indeed, to the eyes of men, as

does God himself; for certainly it is not itself seen while it is

in the body; for it is there after an invisible manner, and,

when it is freed from it, it is still not seen. It is this soul

which hath one nature, and that an incorruptible one also ;

but yet is it the cause of the change that is made in the body;

for whatsoever it be which the soul touches, that lives and

flourishes, and from whatsoever it is removed that withers

away and dies; such a degree is there in it of immortality.

Let me produce the state of sleep as a most evident demon­

stration of the truth of what I say; wherein souls, when tho

body does not distract them, have the sweetest rest depending

on themselves, and conversing with God, by their alliance to

him ; they then go everywhere, and foretell many futurities

beforehand. And why are we afraid of death, while we are

pleased with the rest we have in sleep ? and how absurd a

thing is it to pursue after liberty while we are alive, and yet

to envy it to ourselves where it will be eternal ? We, there­

fore, who have been brought up in a discipline of our own,

ought to become an example to others of our readiness to die.

Yet if we do stand in need of foreigners to support us in this

matter lot us regard those Indians who profess the exercise

of philosophy; for these good men do but unwillingly undergo

the time of life, and look upon it as a necessary servitude,

and make haste to let their souls loose from their bodies:

nay, when no misfortune presses them to it, nor drives them

upon it, these have such a desire of a life of immortality that

they tell other men beforehand that they are about to depart;

and nobody hinders them, but every one thinks them happy

men, and gives them letters to be carried to their familiar

friends [that are dead ;] so firmly and certainly do they be­

lieve that souls converse with one another [in the other world.]

So when these men have heard all such commands that were

to be given them, they deliver their body to the fire; and in

order to their getting their soul a separation from the body

in the greatest purity, they die in the midst of hymns of

commendations made to them; for their dearest friends con­

