C. VII.] VESPASIAN. 41

could no way get free from this burning oil; they could only

leap and roll about in their pains, as they fell down from the

bridges they had laid. And as they thus were beaten back,

and retired to their own party, who still pressed them for­

ward, they were easily wounded by those that were behind

them.

29. However, in this ill success of the Romans their cou­

rage did not fail them, nor did the Jews want prudence to

oppose them ; for the Romans, although they saw their own

men thrown down, and in a miserable condition, yet were

they vehemently bent against those that poured the oil upon

them, while every one reproached the man before him as a

coward, and one that hindered him from exerting himself;

and while the Jews made use of another stratagem to prevent

their ascent, and poured boiling senegreek upon the boards

in order to make them slip and fall down: by which means

neither could those that were coming up nor those that were

going down stand on their feet, but some of them fell back­

ward upon the machines on which they ascended, and were

trodden upon; many of them fell down on the bank they had

raised, and when they were fallen upon it were slain by the

Jews: for when the Romans could not keep their feet, the

Jews being freed from fighting hand to hand, had leisure to

throw their darts at them. So the general called off those

Eoldiers in the evening that had suffered so sorely, of whom

the number of the slain was not a few, while that of the

wounded was still greater; but of the people of Jotapata no

more than six men were killed, although more than three

hundred were carried off wounded. This fight happened on

the twentieth day of the month Desius [Sivan.]

30. Hereupon Vespasian comforted his army on occasion

of what had happened; and as he found them angry indeed, but

rather wanting somewhat to do than any farther exhortations,

he gave orders to raise the banks still higher, and to erect

three towers, each fifty feet high, and that they should cover

them with plates of iron on every side, that they might be

both firm by their weight, and not easily liable to be set on

fire. These towers he set upon the banks, and placed upon

4*

