522 DISSERTATION III.

that Vespasian had with him three legions, well exercised in

war. Histor. book ii. chap, v.]

When Vespasian was a very young man, it was promised

him that he should arrive at the highest pitch of fame: but

what did first of all seem to confirm the omen was his

triumphs and consulship, and the glory of his victories over

the Jews. When he had once obtained these he believed it

was portended that he should como to the empire.1

There is between Judea and Syria a mountain and a god,

both called by the same name of Carmel, though our pre­

decessors have informed us that this god had no image, and

no temple, and, indeed, no more than an altar and solemn

worship. Vespasian was once offering a sacrifice there, at a

time when he had some secret thought in his mind: the

priest, whose name was Basilides, when he over and over

looked at the entrails, said, Vespasian, whatever thou art

about, whether the building of thy house, or enlargement of

thy lands, or augmentation of thy slaves, thou art granted a

mighty seat, very large bounds, a huge number of men.

These doubtful answers were soon spread abroad by fame,

and at this time were explained: nor was any thing so much

in public vogue; and very many discourses of that nature

were made before him, and the more because they foretold

what he expected.

Mucianus and Vespasianus went away, having fully agreed

on their designs; the former to Antioch, the latter to

Caesarea. Antioch is the capital of Syria, and Ca;sarea the

capital of Judea. The commencement of Vespasian's ad­

vancement to the empire was at Alexandria, where Tiberiu?

Alexander made such haste, that he obliged the legions to

take the oath of fidelity to him on the calends of July, which

was ever after celebrated as the day of his inauguration,

although the army in Judea had taken the oath on the fifth

1 Joscphus takes notice in general of these many omens of Vespasian's

•idvancement to the empire, and distinctly adds his own remarkable pre­

diction of it also. Antiq. b. Hi. ell. viii. sect. 3-9.

* This although seems to imply that Vespasian was proclaimed emperor in  
judea before he was so proclaimed at Alexandria, as the whole history of

