248 j o s e p n u s [b. vl

in charge, and this in the Hebrew language.' So he earnestly

prayed them, " To spare their own city, and to prevent that

fire which was just ready to seize upon the temple, and to

offer their usual sacrifices to God therein." At these words

of his, a great sadness and silence were observed among the

people. But the tyrant himself cast many reproaches upon

Josephus, with imprecations besides ; and at last added this

withal, — " That he did never fear the taking of the city, be­

cause it was God's own city." In answer to which Josephus

said thus with a loud voice : — "To be sure thou hast kept

this city wonderful pure for God's sake ; the temple also con­

tinues entirely unpolluted ! Nor hast thou been guilty of any

impiety against him for whose assistance thou hopest! He

still receives his accustomed sacrifices ! Vile wretch that thou

art! If any one should deprive thee of thy daily food, thou

wouldst esteem him to be an enemy to thee; but thou hopest

to have that God for thy supporter in this war whom thou

hast deprived of his everlasting worship : and thou imputest

those sins to the Romans, who, to this very time, take care to

have our laws observed, and almost compel these sacrifices to

be still offered to God which have by thy means been inter­

mitted. Who is there that can avoid groans and lamentations

at the amazing change that is made in the city ? since very

foreigners and enemies do now correct that impiety which

thou hast occasioned; while thou art a Jew, and wast educated

in our laws, art become a greater enemy to them than the

others. But still, John, it is never dishonorable to repent,

and amend what hath been done amiss, even at the last ex­

tremity. Thou hast an instance before thee in Jechoniah,2

the king of tho Jews, if thou hast a mind to save the city,

who, when the king of Babylon made war against him, did,

of his own accord, go out of this city before it was taken, and

did undergo a voluntary captivity, with his family, that the

sanctuary might not be delivered up to the enemy, and that

1 The same that in the New Testament is always so called, and was then

the common language of the Jews in Judea, which was the Syriac dialect.

2 Our present copies of the Old Testament want this encomium upon King

Jechoniah or Jehoiachim, which it seem'! was in Josephus's copy.

