474 DISSERTATION I.

brother of our Lord, and bishop of Jerusalem, was thrown

down [from the temple,] and slain of them by stoning.

About A. D. 740. Anastasias Abbas contr. Jud.— Now

Josephus, an author and writer of your own, says of Christ,

that he was a just and good man, showed and declared so to

be by divine grace, who gave aid to many by signs and

miracles.

About A. Z>. 790. Greorgius Syncellus Ohron. p. 339.—

These miseries befell the Jews by way of revenge for James

the Just, who was the brother of Jesus that was called Christ,

on the account that they had slain him who was a most right­

eous person. Now as Ananus, a person of that character,

thought ho had a proper opportunity, because Festus was

dead, and Albinus was but upon the road, so he assembles

the sanhedrim of judges, and brings before them James, the

brother of Jesus, who was called Christ, and some of his com­

panions, and when he had formed an accusation against them,

as breakers of the law, he delivered them to be stoned; but as

for those that seemed the most equitable of the citizens, and

those that were the most uneasy at the breach of the laws,

they disliked what was done. They also sent to the king

[Agrippa] desiring him to send to Ananus that he should act

so no more, for that what he had already done could not be

justified, &c.

About A. D. 850. Johan. Malela Chron. lib. x.—From

that time began the destruction of the Jews, as Josephus, the

philosopher of the Hebrews, hath written; who also said this,

that from the time the Jews crucified Christ, who was a good

and a righteous man (that is, if it be fit to call such a one a

man, and not a God,) the land of Judea was never free from

trouble. These things the same Josephus the Jew has related

in his writings.

About A. D. 800. Photius Cod. lib. xlviii.—I have read

the treatise of Josephus about the universe, whose title I have

elsewhere read to be, Of the Substance of the Universe. It

is contained in two very small treatises. He treats of the

origin of the world in a brief manner. However, he speaks

of the divinity of Christ, who is our true God, in a way very

