518 DISSERTATION III.

the spirit or air that is over it thereby corrupted; and that

by this means the fruits of the earth, both corn and grapes,

rot away, both the soil and the air being equally unwholesome.

The river Belus docs also run into the sea of Judea ; and

the sands that are collected about its mouth, when you mix

nitre with them, arc melted into glass; this sort of shore is

"but small, but its sand, for the use of those that carry it off,

is inexhaustible.

Chap. VIII.] A great part of Judea is composed of scat­

tered villages; it also has larger towns: Jerusalem is the

capital city of the whole nation. In that city there was a

temple of immense wealth ; in the first parts that are fortified

is the city itself; next it the royal palace. The temple is

enclosed in its most inward recesses. A Jew can come no

farther than the gates; all but the priests arc excluded by

their threshold. While the East was under the dominion of

the Assyrians, the Medes, and the Persians, the Jews were

of all slaves the most despicable.1

2After the dominion of the Macedonians prevailed, king

Antiochus tried to conquer their superstition, and to introduce

the customs of the Greeks; but he was disappointed of his

design, which was to give this most profligate nation a change

for the better, and that was by his war with the Parthians,

for at this time Arsaces had fallen off [from the Macedonians.]

Then it was that the Jews set kings over them, because the

Macedonians were become weak, the Parthians were not yet

very powerful, and the Romans were very remote: which

kings, when they had been expelled by the mobility of the

vulgar, and had recovered their dominion by war, attempted

the same things that kings used to do, I mean they introduced

the destruction of cities, the slaughter of brethren, of wives,

and parents, but still went on in their superstition; for they

took upon them withal the honorable dignity of the high-

priesthood, as a firm security to their power and authority.

1 A great slander against the Jews, without any just foundation. Josephus

would have informed him better.

* Here begin Josephus's and Tacitus's true accounts of the Jews prelimi­  
nary to the la«t war. See Of the War, Prooem. sect. 7.

