C. V.J A FALSE PROPHET. 273

speak all in a few words, there it was that the entire riches

of the Jews were heaped up together, while the rich people

had there huilt themselves chambers [to contain such fur足

niture.] The soldiers also came to the rest of the cloisters

that were in the outer [court of the] temple, whither the

women and children, and a great mixed multitude of the

people, fled, in number about six thousand. But before

Caesar had determined any thing about these people, or given

the commanders any orders relating to them, the soldiers

were in such a rage that they set that cloister on fire; by

which means it came to pass, that some of these were de足

stroyed by throwing themselves down headlong, and some

were burnt in the cloisters themselves. Nor did any one of

them escape with his life. A false prophet was the occasion 1

of these people's destruction, who had made a public pro足

clamation in the city that very day, that " God commanded

them to get up upon the temple, and that there they should

receive miraculous signs of their deliverance." Now thero

was then a great number of false prophets suborned by the

tyrants to impose on the people, who denounced this to them,

that they should wait for deliverance from God; that this

was in order to keep them from deserting, and that they

might be buoyed up above fear and care by such hopes.

Now a man that is in adversity does easily comply with such

promises; for when such a seducer makes him believe that

he shall be delivered from those miseries which oppress him,

then it is that the patient is full of hopes of such his deliverance.

3. Thus were the miserable people persuaded by these de足

ceivers, and such as belied God himself; while they did not

attend nor give credit to the signs that were so evident, and

did so plainly foretell their future desolation, but like men

infatuated, without either eyes to see or minds to consider, did

not regard the denunciations that God made to them. Thus

there was a star2 resembling a sword which stood over the

city, and a comet2 that continued a whole year. Thus also

1 Keland here justly takes notice, that these Jews, who had despised the

true Prophet, were deservedly abused and deluded by these fake ones.

* Whether Josephus means that this star was different from that comet which  
lasted a whole year, I cannot certainly determine. His words most favor

their being different one from another.

