156 SEDITIONS AT JERUSALEM. [B. V.

2. For Eleazar, the son of Simon, who made the first se足

paration of the zealots from the people, and made them retire

into the temple, appeared very angry at John's insolent at足

tempts, -which he made every day upon the people; for this

man never left off murdering: but the truth was that he could

not bear to submit to a tyrant who was set up after him. Sc

he being desirous of gaining the entire power and dominion

to himself, revolted from John, and took to his assistance

Judas, the son of Chcleias, and Simon, the son of Ezron, who

were among the men of greatest power. There was also with

him ITezekiah, the son of Chobar, a person of eminence.

Each of these was followed by a great many of the zealots;

these seized upon the inner court1 of the temple, and laid

their arms upon the holy gates, and over the holy fronts of

that court. And because they had plenty of provisions, they

were of good courage; for there was great abundance of what

was consecrated to sacred uses, and they scrupled not the

making use of them ; yet were they afraid on account of their

small number, and when they had laid up their arms there,

they did not stir from the place they were in. Now, as to

John, what advantage he had above Eleazar in the multitude

of his followers, the like disadvantage he had in the situation

he was in, since he had his enemies over his head; and as he

could not make any assault upon them without some terror,

so was his anger too great to let him be at rest: nay, although

he suffered more mischief from Eleazar and his party than

he could inflict upon them, yet would not he leave off assault足

ing them, insomuch that there were continual sallies made

one against another, as well as darts thrown at one another,

and the temple was defiled every where with murders.

3. But now the tyrant Simon, the son of Gioras, whom the

people had invited in, out of the hopes they had of his assist足

1 This appears to be the first time that the zealots ventured to pollute this

most sacred court of the temple, which was the court of the priests, wherein

the temple itself and the altar stood. So that the conjecture of those that

would interpret that Zacharias, who was slain "between the temple and tho

altar" several months before, I3. iv. ch. v. sect. 4. as if he were shun tbcro

by these zealots, is groundless, as I have noted on that place already.

