C. I.] SEDITIONS AT JERUSALEM. 161

whereas the other sides of that court had so many steps as

would not let them come nigh enough to the cloisters.

6. Thus did John hope to be too hard for his enemies by

these engines, constructed by his impiety ; but God himself

demonstrated that his pains would prove of no use to him, by

bringing the Romans upon him before he had reared any of

his towers ; for Titus, when he had gotten together part of

his forces about him, and had ordered the rest to meet him

at Jerusalem, marched out of Caesarea. He had with him

those three legions that had accompanied his father when he

laid Judea waste, together with that twelfth legion which had

been formerly beaten with Cestius: which legion, as it was

otherwise remarkable for its valor, so did it march on now

with greater alacrity to avenge themselves on the Jews, as

remembering what they had formerly suffered from them.

Of these legions he ordered the fifth to meet him, by going

through Emmaus, and the tenth to go up by Jericho; he

also moved himself together with the rest: besides which

marched those auxiliaries that came from the kings, being

now more in number than before, together with a consider­

able number that came to his assistance from Syria. Those

also that had been selected out of these four legions, and sent

with Mucianus to Italy, had their places filled up out of those

soldiers that came out of Egypt with Titus, which were two

thousand men, chosen out of the armies at Alexandria. There

followed him also three thousand, drawn from those that

guarded the river Euphrates; as also there came Tiberius

Alexander, who was a friend of his, most valuable both for

his good-will to him and for his prudence. He had formerly

been governor of Alexandria, but was now thought worthy

to be general of the army under [Titus.] The reason of

this was, that he had been the first who encouraged Vespasian

very lately to accept this his new dominion, and joined him­

self to him with great fidelity, when things were uncertain,

and fortune had not yet declared for him. He also followed

Titus as a counsellor, very useful to him in this war, both by

his age and skill in such affairs.

14*

