ANTIQUITY OF THE JEWS.

FLAVIUS JOSEPHUS AGAINST APION.'

BOOK I.

§ 1. I suppose that, by my books of the Antiquity of the

Jews, most excellent Epaphroditus,2 I have made it evident

to those who peruse them, that our Jewish nation is of very

1 This first book has a wrong title. It is not written against Apion, as is

the first part of the second book, but against those Greeks in general who

would not believe Joscphus's former accounts of the very ancient state of

the Jewish nation, in his XX Books of Antiquities; and in particular against

Agatharchides, Manetho, Chercmon, and Lysimachus. It is one of the most

learned, excellent, and useful books of all antiquity; and upon Jerome's

perusal of this and the following books, he declares, that "it seems to him

a miraculous thing, how one that was a Hebrew, who had been from his

infancy instructed in sacred learning, should be able to produce such a

number of testimonies out of profane authors, as if he had read over all the

Grecian libraries." Epist. 84, ad magnum: And the learned Jew, Manas-

seh-ben-Israel, esteemed these two books so excellent, as to translate them

into Hebrew: this wo learn from his own catalogue of his works which I

have seen. As to the time and place when and where these two books were

written, the learned have not hitherto been able to determine them, any

farther than that they were written some timo after his Antiquities, or some

time after A. D. 93, which, indeed, is too obvious at their entrance to be

overlooked even by a careless peruser; they being directly intended against

those that would not believe what he had advanced in those books concern­

ing the great antiquity of the Jewish nation. As to the place, they all

imagine that these two books were written where tho former were, I mean

at Rome; and I confess, that I myself believed both those determinations

till I came to finish my notes upon these books, when I met with plain indi­

cations that they were written not at Rome, but in Judea, and this after

the third year of Trajan, or A. D. 100.

2 Take Dr. Hudson's note here, which, as it justly contradicts the common

opinion that Josephus cither died under Domitian, or at least wrote nothing

(355)

