274 PRECEDING SIGNS. [B. VI.

before the Jews' rebellion, and before those commotions which

preceded the war, when the people were come in great crowds

to the feast of unleavened bread, on the eighth day' of the

month Xanthicus [Nisan,] and at the ninth hour of the night,

so great a light shone round the altar and the holy house, that

it appeared to be bright day-time, which light lasted for half

an hour. This light seemed to bo a good sign to the unskilful,

but was so interpreted by the sacred scribes as to portend

those events that followed immediately upon it. At the same

festival also, a heifer, as she was led by the high-priest to be

sacrificed, brought forth a Iamb in the midst of the temple.

Moreover, the eastern gate of the inner [court of the temple,]

which was of brass, and vastly heavy, and had been with diffi­

culty shut by twenty men, and rested upon a basis armed with

iron, and had bolts fastened very deep into the firm floor,

which was there made of one entire stone, was seen to be

opened of its own accord about the sixth hour of the night.

Now those that kept wateh in the temple came hereupon run­

ning to the captain of the temple, and told him of it, who then

came up thither, and not without great difficulty was able to

shut the gate again. This also appeared to the vulgar to be

a very happy prodigy, as if God did thereby open them the

gate of happiness. But the men of learning understood it,

that the security of their holy house was dissolved of its own

accord, and that the gato «as opened for the advantage of

their enemies. So these publicly declared that the signal fore­

showed the desolation that was coming upon them. Besides

these, a few days after that feast, on the one and twentieth

day of the month Artemisius [Jyar,] a certain prodigious and

incredible phenomenon appeared: 1 suppose the account of it

would seem to be a fable, were it not related by those that

saw it, and were not the events that followed it of so consid­

1 Since Josephus still used the S^ro-Macedoniau month Xanthicus for the

Jewish month Nisan, this 8th, or, as Nicephorus read it, this ninth of Xan­

thicus or Nisan was almost a week before the Passover on the 14th : about

which time wo learn from St. Johu, that many used to go out of the country to

Jerusalem to purify themselves, John xi. 55, with xii. 1, in agreement with
Jo-

sepbus also. 1i. v. ch. iii. sect. 1. And it might well be, that in the sigbt
of

these this extraordinary Tght might appear.

