104 T H K I D V M E A N S [B. IV,

could we bo concealed from such a vast number of our fellow-

citizens, among whom we are conversant every hour, while

what is done privately in the country is, it seems, known by

the zealots, who are but few in number, and under confine足

ment also, and are not able to come out of the temple into

the city ? Is this the first time that they are become sensible

how they ought to be punished for their insolent actions? for

while these men were free from the fear they are now under,

there was no suspicion raised that any of us were traitors.

But if they lay this charge against the people, this must

have been done at a public consultation, and not one of the

people must have dissented from the rest of the assembly; in

which case the public fame of this matter would have come

to you sooner than any particular indication. But how could

that be ? Must there not, then, have been ambassadors sent

to confirm the agreements ? And let them tell us who this

ambassador was that was ordained for that purpose. But

this is no other than a pretence of such men as arc loath to

die, and arc laboring to escape those punishments that hang

over them: for if fate had determined that this city was to

be betrayed into its enemy's hands, no other than these men

that accuse us falsely could have the impudence to do it,

there being no wickedness wanting to complete their impu足

dent practices but this only, that they become traitors. And

now you Idumcans are come hither already with your arms;

it is your duty, in the first place, to be assisting to your me足

tropolis, and to join with us in cutting off those tyrants that

have infringed the rules of our regular tribunals, that have

trampled upon our laws, and made their swords the arbitra足

tors of right and wrong; for they have seized upon men of

great eminence, and under no accusation, as they stood in

the midst of the market-place, and tortured them with putting

them into bonds; and without bearing to hear what they had

to say or what supplications they made, they destroyed them.

You may, if you please, come into this city, though not in

the way of war, and take a view of the marks still remaining

of what I now say, and may see the houses that have been

depopulated by their rapacious hands, with those wives and

