C. I.] THE ROMANS. 241

before they can have taken breath, these advantages promise

us no less than a certain and sudden victory. As for myself,

I shall at present waive any commendations of those who die

in war,1 and omit to speak of the immortality of those men

who are slain in the midst of their martial bravery: yet can­

not I forbear to imprecate upon those who are of a contrary

disposition, that they may die in time of peace, by some dis­

temper or other, since their souls are condemned to the grave,

together with their bodies; for what man of virtue is there

who does not know that those souls which are severed from

their fleshly bodies in battles by the sword, and received by

the ether, that purest of elements, and joined to that company

which are placed among the stars: that they become good

demons and propitious heroes, and show themselves as such

to their posterity afterwards ? while upon those souls that

wear away in and with their distempered bodies, comes a

subterranean night, to dissolve them to nothing, and a deep

oblivion to take away all the remembrance of them, and this

notwithstanding they be clean from all spots and defilements

of tlm world, so that, in this case, the soul at the same time

comes to the utmost bounds of its life, and of its body, and

of its memorial also. But, since fate hath determined that

death is to come of necessity upon all men, a sword is a better

instrument for that purpose than any disease whatsoever.

Why is it not then a very mean thing for us not to yield up

that to the public benefit, which we must yield up to fate ?

And this discourse have I made upon the supposition that

those who first attempt to go upon this wall must needs be

killed in the attempt, though still men of true courage have a

chance to escape, even in the most hazardous undertakings.

For, in the first place, that part of the former wall that is

1 In this speech of Titus we may clearly see the notions which the Kommis

then hail of death, a:id of the happy state of those who died bravely in war,

and the contrary estate of those who died ignobly in their beds by sickness,

Rclaud here also produces two parallel passages, the one out of Ammiauus

Marcellinus, concerning the Alaui, lib. 31, that " they judged that man happy

who laid down his life in battle." The other of Valerius Maximus, lib. xi.

ch. 6, who says that " the Cimbri and Celtiberi exulted for joy in the army,

as being to go out of the world gloriously and hippily."

IV. —21

