DISSERTATION III. 531

crimes adhering to that name, he to be punished ? In the

meantime, I have taken this course about those who have

been brought before me as Christians. I asked them whether

they were Christians or not ? If they confessed that they

were Christians, I asked them again, and a third time, inter­

mixing threatenings with the questions: if they persevered

in their confession, I ordered them to executed;' for I did

not doubt but, let their confession be of any sort whatsoever,

this positiveness and inflexible obstinacy deserved to be pun­

ished. There have been some of this mad sect whom I took

notice of in particular as Roman citizens, that they might bo

sent to that city.2 After some time, as is usual in such exami­

nations, the crime spread itself, and many more cases came

before me. A libel was sent me, though without an author,

containing many names [of persons accused.] These denied

that they were Christians now, or ever had been. They called

upon the gods, and supplicated to your image,3 which I caused

to be brought to me for that purpose, with frankincense and

wine: they also cursed Christ:4 none of which things, as it is

said, can any of those that are really Christians be compelled

to do ; so I thought fit to let them go. Others of them, that

were named in the libel, said they were Christians, but pre­

sently denied it again; that, indeed, they had been Christians,

but had ceased to be so, some three years, some many more;

and one there was that said he had not been so these twenty

years. All these worshipped your image, and the images of

our gods: these also cursed Christ. However, they assured

1 Amazing doctrine! that a firm and fixed resolution of keeping a good

conscience should be thought without dispute to deserve death, and this by

such comparatively excellent heathens as Pliny and Trajan.

2 This was the case of St. Paul, who being a citizen of Rome, was allowed

to appeal unto Caesar, and mas sent to Rome accordingly. Acts xxii. 25-29;

xxv. 25; xxvi. 32; xxvii. 37.

3 Amazing stupidity! that the emperor's image, even while he was alive,

should bo allowed capable of divine worship, even by such comparatively

excellent heathens as Pliny and Trajan.

* Take here a parallel account of the martyrdom of Polycarp, sect. 9. The  
proconsul said—"Reproach Christ." Polycarp replied — "Eighty and six

years have I now served Christ, and he has never done mo the least wrong;

how then can I blaspheme my King and my Savior?"

