B. II.] AGAINST APION. 441

body, is subject to miseries, and is not freed therefrom again

but by death : on which account the law requires this purifi­

cation to be entirely performed.

26. Nay, indeed, the law does not permit us to make fes­

tivals at the births of our children, and thereby afford occa­

sion of drinking to excess ; but it ordains, that the very be­

ginning of our education should be immediately directed to

sobriety. It also commands us to bring those children up in

learning, and to exercise them in the laws, and to make

them acquainted with the acts of their predecessors, in order

to their imitation of them, and that they might be nourished

up in the laws from their infancy, and might neither trans­

gress them, nor have any pretence for their ignorance of

them.

27. Our law hath also taken care of the decent burial of

the dead, but without any extravagant expenses for the fune­

rals, and without the erection of any illustrious monuments

for them ; but hath ordered that their nearest relation should

perform their obsequies; and hath showed it to bo regular,

that all who pass by when any one is buried should accompany

the funeral, and join in the lamentation. It also ordains, that

the house and its inhabitants should be purified after the fu­

neral is over, that every one may thence learn to keep at a

great distance from the thoughts of being pure, if he hath

been once guilty of murder.

28. The law ordains also, that parents should be honored

immediately after God himself; and delivers that son, who

does not requite them for the benefits he hath received from

them, but is deficient on any such occasion, to be stoned. It

also says, that the young men should pay due respect to

every elder, since God is the eldest of all beings. It does

not give leave to conceal any thing from our friends, because

that is not true friendship which will not commit all things to

their fidelity: it also forbids the revelation of secrets, even

though an enmity arise between them. If any judge takes

bribes, his punishment is death: he that overlooks one that

offers him a petition, and this when he is able to relieve him,

he is a guilty person. What is not by any one intrusted to

