482 DISSERTATION I.

(3.) It was quite beside the purpose of Josephus to declare

himself here to be a Christian, or a believer in Jesus as the

true Messiah. Had he intended so to do, he would surely

have explained the meaning of the word Christ to his Greek

and Roman readers: he would surely have been a great deal

fuller and larger in his accounts of Christ, and of the

Christian religion: nor would such a declaration at that time

have recommended him, or his nation, or his writings, to

either the Greeks or the Romans; of his reputation with both

which people he is known to have been, in the writing of

these Antiquities, very greatly solicitous.

(4.) Josephus's usual way of writing is historical and

declarative of facts, and of the opinions of others, and but

rarely such as directly informs us of his own opinion, unless

we prudently gather it from what he says historically, or as

the opinions of others. This is very observable in the

writings of Josephus, and in particular as to what he says of

John the Baptist, and of James the Just; so that this in­

terpretation is most probable, as most agreeable to Josephus's

way of writing in parallel cases.

(5.) This seems to be the universal sense of all the ancients

without exception, who cite this testimony from him; and

though they almost everywhere own this to be the true read­

ing, yet do they everywhere suppose Josephus to be still an

unbelieving Jew, and not a believing Christian : nay, Jerom

appears so well assured of this interpretation, and that

Josephus did not mean to declare any more by these words

than a common opinion, that, according to his usual way of

interpreting authors, not to the words but to the sense (of

which we have, I think, two more instances in his accounts

out of Josephus, now before us,) he renders this clause cre-

debatur esse Christus, i. e. he was believed to be Christ.

Nor is the parallel expression of Pilate to be otherwise under­

stood, when he made that inscription upon the cross, This is

Jesus the King of the Jews;1 which is well explained by

himself elsewhere, and corresponds to the import of the

present clause, What shall I do with Jesus who is called

1 Matth. xxvii. 31.

