CXI.] ANTIOCHUS EPIPHANES. 219

followed by his deeds. In answer to which the seditious cast

reproaches upon Caesar himself, and upon his father also, and

cried out with a loud voice, that " they contemned death, and

did well in preferring it before slavery; that they would do

all the mischief to the Romans they could while they had

breath in them ; and that for their own city, since they were,

as he said, to be destroyed, they had no concern about it, and

that the world itself w;is a better temple to God than this:

that yet this temple.would bo preserved by him that inhabited

therein, whom they still had for their assistant in this war,

and did, therefore, laugh at all his threatenings, which would

come to nothing; because the conclusion of the whole depended

upon God only." These words were mixed with reproaches,

and with them they made a mighty clamor.

3. In the mean time Antiochus Epiphanes came to the city,

having with him a considerable number of other armed men,

and a band called the Macedonian Band about him, all of

the same age, tall and just past their childhood, armed, and

instructed after the Macedonian manner, whence it was that

they took that name. Yet were many of them unworthy of

so famous a nation; for it had so happened that the king of

Commagena had nourished more than any other kings that

were under the power of the Romans, till a change happened

in his condition; and when he was become an old man, he

declared plainly, that we ought not to call any man happy

before he was dead. But this son of his, who was then come

thither before his father was decaying, said, that " he could

not but wonder what made the Romans so tardy in making

their attacks upon the wall." Now he was a warlike man,

and naturally hold in exposing himself to dangers; he was

also so strong a man, that his boldness seldom failed of

having success; upon this Titus smiled, and said: " He

would share the pains of an attack with him." However,

Antiochus went as he then was, and with his Macedonians

made a sudden assault upon the wall; and, indeed, for his

own part, his strength and skill were so great, that he guarded

himself from the Jewish darts, and yet shot his darts at them,

while yet the young men with him were almost all sorely

