C. VII.] VESPASIAN. 45

hand, and come to terms with him, and thereby save them­

selves ; and assured them, that, if they would lay down their

arms, he would secure them from any harm; but when ho

could not prevail with them, he fell upon them, and slew them

all, being in number eleven thousand and six hundred. This

was done on the twenty-seventh day of the month Desius

[Sivan.] And these were the calamities that befell the Sa­

maritans at this time.

33. But as the people of Jotapata still held out manfully,

and bore up under their miseries beyond all that could be

hoped for, on the forty-seventh day [of the siege] the banks

cast up by the Romans were become higher than the wall;

on which day a certain deserter went to Vespasian, and told

him how few were left in the city, and how weak they were :

and that they had been so worn out with perpetual watching,

and also perpetual fighting, that they could not now oppose

any force that came against them, and that they might be

taken by stratagem, if any one would attack them ; for that

about the last watch of the night, when they thought they

might have some rest from the hardships they were under,

and when a morning sleep used to come upon them, as they

were thoroughly weary, he said the watch used to fall asleep ;

accordingly, his advice was, that they should make their at­

tack at that hour. But Vespasian had a suspicion about this

deserter, as knowing how faithful the Jews were to one

another, and how much they despised any punishments that

could be inflicted on them; this last, because one of the peo­

ple of Jotapata had undergone all sorts of torments, and

though they made him pass through a fiery trial of his ene­

mies in his examination, yet would he inform them nothing

of the affairs within the city, and as he was crucified smiled

at them. However, the probability there was in the relation

itself did partly confirm the truth of what the deserter told

them, and they thought he might probably speak truth.

However, Vespasian thought they should be no great sufferers

if the report was a sham : so he commanded them to keep the

man in custody, and prepared the army for taking the city.

34. According to which resolution they marched without

