356 FLAVIUSJOSEPHOS [B. I.

great antiquity, and had a distinct subsistence of its own

originally; as also, I have therein declared how we came to

inhabit this country wherein we now live. Those Antiquities

contain the history of five thousand years, and are taken out

of our sacred books, but are translated by me into the Greek

tongue. However, since I observe a considerable number of

people giving ear to the reproaches that are laid against us

by those who bear ill-will to us, and will not believe what I

have written concerning the antiquity of our nation, whilo

they take it for a plain sign that our nation is of a late date,

because they are not so much as vouchsafed a bare mention

by the most famous historiographers among the Grecians, I,

therefore, have thought myself under an obligation to write

somewhat briefly about these subjects, in order to convict

those that reproach us of spite and voluntary falsehood, and

to correct the ignorance of others, and withal to instruct all

those who are desirous of knowing the truth of what great

antiquity we really are. As for the witnesses whom I shall

produce for the proof of what I say, they shall be such as

are esteemed to be of the greatest reputation for truth, and

the most skilful in the knowledge of all antiquity, by the

Greeks themselves. I will also show, that those who have

written so reproachfully and falsely about us are to be con­

victed by what they have written themselves to the contrary.

I shall also endeavor to give an account of the reasons why

it hath so happened, that there have not been a great number

of Greeks who have made mention of our nation in their

histories: I will, however, bring those Grecians to light, who

later than his days, so does it perfectly agree to my own determination,

from Justus of Tiberias, that he wrote or finished his own life after the 3d

of Trnjan, or A. D. 100, to which Noldius also agrees, de Herod. No. 383.

" [Epaphroditu>] since Flavius Josephus," says Dr. Hudson, " wrote [or

finished] his books of Antiquities on the 13th of Domitian, [A. I>. 03,] and

after that wrote the memoirs of his own life as an appendix to the books of

Antiquities, and at last his two books against Apion, and yet dedicated all

those writings to Epaphroditus, he can hardly bo that Epaphroditus who

was formerly secretary to Nero, and was slain on the 14th [or 15th] of

Domitian, after ho had been for a good while in banishment, but another

Epaphroditus, a free man and procurator of Trajan, a? says Orotius on

Luke, i. 3."

