DISSERTATION II. ,501

Jewish prophet Micah1 implies, when he inquires, "Where­

with shall I come before the Lord, and bow myself before

the High God ? Shall I come before him with burnt-offerings,

with calves of a year old ? "Will the Lord be pleased with

thousands of rams, with ten thousands of fakids of the goats?

Shall I give my first-born for my transgression, the fruit of

my body for the sin of my soul ?" No, certainly, " for he

hath showed thee, O man, what is good; and what doth the

Lord require of thee, but to do justly, and to love mercy,

and to humble thyself, to walk with thy God ?"

It is true, God did here try the faith and obedience of

Abraham to himself, whether they were as strong as the Pa­

gans exhibited to their demons or idols; yet did ho withal

take effectual care, and that by a miraculous interposition

also, to prevent the execution, and provided himself a ram

as a vicarious substitute, to supply the place of Isaac imme­

diately. "2 And the angel of the Lord called unto Abraham,

and said, Abraham, Abraham; and he said, Here am I; and

he said, Lay not thine hand upon the lad, neither do thou

any thing unto him ; for now I know that thou fearest God,

seeing thou hast not withheld thy son, thine only son, from

me. And Abraham lifted up his eyes and looked, and be­

hold a ram caught in a thicket by his horns; and Abraham

went and took the ram, and offered him up for a burnt-offer­

ing in the stead of his son." Thus though Jeptha3 has by

many been thought to have vowed to offer up his only daugh­

ter and child for a sacrifice, and that as bound on him, upon

supposition of his vow, by a divine law, Lev. xxvii. 28, 29,

of which opinion I was once myself; yet upon more mature

consideration I have, for some time, thought this to be a mis­

take, and that his vow extended only to her being devoted tc

serve God at the tabernacle, or elsewhere, in a state of per­

petual virginity; and that neither that law did enjoin any

human sacrifices, nor do we meet with any example of its

execution in this sense afterwards. Philo never mentions

any such law, no more than Josephus: and when Josephus

1 Micah, Ti. 6-8. ' Gen. xxii. 11-13. * Judges, xi. 3(5-39.

