B. I.] AGAINST APION. 375

one Abdemon, a man of Tyre, did solve the problems, and

propose others which Solomon could not solve, upon which he

was obliged to repny a great deal of money to Hirom."

These things arc attested to by Dius, and confirm what we

have said upon the same subjects before.

18. And now I shall add Menander, the Ephesian, as an

additional witness. This Menander wrote the acts that were

done both by the Greeks and Barbarians, under every one

of the Tyrian kings, and had taken much pains to learn their

history out of their own records. Now when he was writing

about those kings that had reigned at Tyre, he came to

Hirom, and says thus: — "Upon the death of Abibalus, his

son Hirom took the kingdom ; he lived fifty-three years, and

reigned thirty-four. Ho raised a bank on that called tho

Broad Place, and dedicated that golden pillar which is in

Jupiter's temple: ho also went and cut down timber from the

mountain called Libanus, and got timber of cedar for tho

roofs of the temples. He also pulled down the old temples

and built new ones : besides this, he consecrated the temples

of Hercules and of Astarte. He first built Hercules's templo

in the month Peritus, and that of Astarte, when he mado his

expedition against the Tityans, who would not pay him their

tribute; and when he had subdued them to himself, be re­

turned home. Under this king there was a younger son of

Abdemon, who mastered the problems which Solomon, king

of Jerusalem, had recommended to be solved." Now, tho

time from this king to the building of Carthage is thus caleu­

lated.— " Upon the death of Hirom, Beleazarus, his son, took

the kingdom; he lived forty-three years, and reigned seven

years: after him succeeded his son Abdastartus; he lived

twenty-nine years, and reigned nine years. Now, four sons

of his nurse plotted against him, and slew him, the eldest of

which reigned twelve years: after them came Astartus, the

son of Deleastartus ; he lived fifty-four years, and reigned

twelve years : after him came his brother Aserymus ; he lived

fifty-four years, and reigned nine years; he was slain by his

brother Pheles, who took the kingdom, and reigned but eight

months, though he lived fifty years: he was slain by Ithoba­

