DISSERTATION I. 469

not in order to the putting away [or the remission] of some

sins [only,] but for the purification of the body, supposing

still that the soul were thoroughly purified beforehand by

righteousness. Now when [many] others came in crowds

about him, for they were greatly delighted in hearing his

words, Herod was afraid that this so great power of per­

suading men might tend to some sedition or other, for they

seemed to be disposed to do every thing he should advise

them to; so he supposed it better to prevent any attempt for

a mutation from him by cutting him off, that after any such

mutation should be brought about, and the public should

suffer, to repent [of such negligence.] Accordingly, he was

sent a prisoner, out of Herod's suspicious temper, to Mache-

rus, the castle I before mentioned, and was there put to

death. When Josephus had said this of John, he makes

mention also of our Savior in the same history, after this

manner : — Now there was about this time one Jesus, a wise

man, if it be lawful to call him a man, for he was a doer of

wonderful works, a teacher of such men as receive the truth

with pleasure ; he drew over to him both many of the Jews,

and many of the Gentiles also: he was the Christ. And

when Pilate, at the suggestion of the principal men among

us, had condemned him to the cross, those that loved him at

the first did not forsake him, for he appeared to them alive

again the third day, as the divine prophets had foretold these,

and ten thousand other wonderful things concerning him.

And still the tribe of Christians, so named from him, are not

extinct at this day. And since this writer, sprung from the

Hebrews themselves, hath delivered things above in his own

work, concerning John the Baptist and our Savior, what room

is there for any farther evasion? &c.

Now James was so wonderful a person, and was so cele­

brated by all others for righteousness, that the judicious Jews

thought this to have been the occasion of that siege of Jeru­

salem, which came on presently after his martyrdom, and that

it befell them for no other reason, than that impious fact they

were guilty of against him. Josephus, therefore, did not

refuse to attest thereto in writing, by the words following : —

IV.—40

