322 LUCILIUS BASSUS. [b. VII.

5. When Bassus had settled thescaffairs he marched hastily

to the forest of Jarden, as it is called; for he had heard that

a great many of those that had fled from Jerusalem and Ma-

cherus formerly were there gotten together. When he was,

therefore, come to the place, and understood that the former

news was no mistake, he in the first place surrounded the

whole place with his horsemen, that such of the Jews as had

boldness enough to try to break through might have no way

possible for escaping, by reason of the situation of these

horsemen; and for the footmen, he ordered them to cut down

the trees that were in the wood whither they were fled. So

the Jews were under a necessity of performing some glorious

exploit, and of greatly exposing themselves in a battle, since

they might, perhaps, thereby escape. So they made a general

attack, and with a great shout fell upon those that surrounded

them, who received them with great courage; and so, while

the one side fought desperately and the others would not

yield, the fight was prolonged on that account. But the event

of the battle did not answer the expectations of the assailants;

for so it happened, that no more than twelve fell on the Ro­

man side, with a few that were wounded; but not one of the

Jews escaped out of this battle, but they were all killed, be­

ing in the whole not fewer in number than three thousand,

together with Judas, the son of Jairus, their general, con­

cerning whom we have before spoken, that he had been a

captain of a certain band at the siege of Jerusalem, and by

going down into a certain vault under ground had privately

made his escape.

6. About the same time it was that Caesar sent a letter to

Bassus, and to Liberius Maximus, who was the procurator

[of Judea,] and gave order that all Judea should be exposed

to sale;l for he did not found any city here, but reserved the

country for himself. However, he assigned a place for eight

hundred men only, whom he had dismissed from his army,

1 It is very remarkable that Titus did not people this now desolate country

of Judea, but ordered it to be ail sold; nor, indeed, is it properly peopled

nt this day, but lies ready for its old inhabitants, the Jews, at their future

restoration. See Literal Accomplishment of Prophecies, p. 77.

