312 TRIUMPH OF THE ROMAN EMPERORS, [b. VII.

mense multitude was left in the city, but every body went

out so far as to gain only a station where they might stand,

and left only such a passage as was necessary for those that

were to be seen to go along it.

4. Now all the soldiery marched out beforehand, by com­

panies, and in their several ranks, under their several com­

manders, in the night-time, and were about the gates, not of

the upper palaces, but those near the temple of Isis; for

there it was that the emperors had rested the foregoing night.

And as soon as ever it was day, Vespasian and Titus camo

out, crowned with laurel, and clothed in those ancient purple

habits which were proper to their family, and then went as

far as Octavian's walks: for there it was that the senate and

the principal rulers, and those that had been recorded as of

the equestrian order, waited for them. Now, a tribunal had

been erected before the cloisters, and ivory chairs had been

set upon it, when they came and sat down upon them. Where­

upon the soldiery made an acclamation of joy to them imme­

diately, and all gave them attestations of their valor; while

they were themselves without their arms, and only in their

silken garments, and crowned with laurel: then Vespasian

accepted of these shouts of theirs ; but while they were still

disposed to go on in such acclamations, he gave them a

signal of silence. And when every body entirely held their

peace, he stood up, and covering the greatest part of his

head with his cloak, he put up the accustomed solemn

prayers ; the like prayers did Titus put up also : after which

prayers Vespasian made a short speech to all the people, and

then sent away the soldiers to a dinner prepared for them

by the emperors. Then did he retire to that gate which was

called the Gate of the Pomp, because pompous shows do

always go through that gate : there it was that they tasted

some food; and when they had put on their triumphal gar­

ments, and had offered sacrifices to the gods that were placed

at the gate, they sent the triumph forward, and marched

through the theatres, that they might be the more easily seen

by the multitudes.

5. Now it is impossible to describe the multitude of tho

