438 flaviusjosephus [b. n.

but he intrusted the principal management of divine worship

to those that exceeded others in an ability to persuade men,

and in prudence of conduct. These men had the main care

of the law, and of the other parts of the people's conduct

committed to them; for they were the priests who were

ordained to be inspectors of all, and the judges in doubtful

cases, and the punishers of those that were condemned to

suffer punishment.

23. What form of government then can be more holy than

this ? What more worthy kind of worship can be paid to

God than we pay, where the entire body of the people are

prepared for religion; where an extraordinary degree of care

is required in the priests, and where the whole polity is so

ordered as if it were a certain religious solemnity? For,

what things foreigners, when they solemnize such festivals,

are not able to observe for a few days' time, and call them

mysterious and sacred ceremonies, we observe with great

pleasure and an unshaken resolution during our whole lives.

What are the things then that we are commanded or for­

bidden? They are simple, and easily known. The first

command is concerning God, and afiirms that God contains

all things, and is a being every way perfect and happy, self-

sufficient, and supplying all other beings ; the beginning, the

middle, and the end of all things. He is manifest in his

works and benefits, and more conspicuous than any other

being whatsoever; but as to his form and magnitude he is

most obscure. All materials, let them be ever so costly, are

unworthy to compose an image for him; and all arts are

unartful to express the notion we ought to have of him. We

can neither see nor think of any thing like him, nor is it

agreeable to piety to form a resemblance of him. We see

his works, the light, the heaven, the earth, the sun, and the

moon, the waters, the generations of animals, the productions

of fruits. These things hath God made, not with hands, not

with labor, not as wanting the assistance of any to co-operate

with him ; but as his will resolved they should be made, and

be good also, they were made, and became good immediately.

All men ought to follow this being, and to worship him in the

