252 TITUS RENEWS [B. VI.

at due distances, and on it to engrave in Greek, and in your

own letters, this prohibition, — That no foreigner should go

beyond that wall ? have not we given you leave to kill such

as go beyond it, though ho were a Roman ? And what do you

do now, you pernicious villains ? Why do you trample upon

dead bodies in this temple ? and why do you pollute this holy

house with the blood of both foreigners and Jews themselves ?

I appeal to the gods of my own country, and to every god

that ever had any regard to this place (for I do not suppose

it to be now regarded by any of them;) I also appeal to my

own army, and to those Jews that are now with me, and even

to you yourselves, that I do not force you to defile this your

sanctuary ; and if you will but change the place whereon you

will fight, no Roman shall either come near your sanctuary,

or offer any affront to it; nay, I will endeavor to preserve

you your holy house whether you will or no." l

5. As Josephus explained these things from the mouth of

Caesar, both the robbers and the tyrant thought that these

exhortations proceeded from Titus's fear, and not from his

good-will to them, and grew insolent upon it. But when

Titus saw that these men were neither to be moved by com­

miseration towards themselves, nor had any concern upon

them to have the holy house spared, he proceeded unwillingly

to go on with the war again against them. He could not,

indeed, bring all his army against them, the place was so

naiTow; but choosing thirty soldiers of the most valiant out

of every hundred, and committing a thousand to each tri­

bune, and making Cerealis their commander-in-chief, he gave

orders that they should attack the guards of the temple

about the ninth hour of that night. But as he was now in

his armor, and preparing to go down with them, his friends

would not let him go, by reason of the greatness of the danger,

and what the commanders suggested to them; for they said,

that " ho would do more by sitting above in the tower of An­

1 That these seditious Jews were the direct occasions of their own destruc­

tion, and of the conflagration of their city and temple, and that Titus

earnestly and constantly labored to save both, is here and everywhere most

evident in Josephus.

