C. II.] TITUS AT JERUSALEM. 167

more of them, and put them all to flight, and made them run

away hastily down the valley. Now, as these Jews suffered

greatly in the declivity of the valley, so, when they were

gotten over it, they turned about and stood over against the

Romans, having the valley between them, and there fought

with them. Thus did they continue the fight till noon ; but

when it was already a little after noon, Titus set those that

came to the assistance of the Romans with him, and those

that belonged to the cohorts, to prevent the Jews from making

any more sallies, and then sent the rest of the legion to the

npper part of the mountain to fortify their camp.

5. This march of the Romans seemed to the Jews to be a

flight; and as the watchman that was placed upon the wall

gave a signal by shaking his garment, there came out a fresh

multitude of Jews, and that with such mighty violence, that

one might compare it to the running of the most terrible wild

beasts. To say the truth, none of those that opposed them

could sustain the fury with which they made their attacks;

but, as if they had been cast out of an engine, they brake

the enemy's ranks to pieces, who were put to flight, and ran

away to the mountain; none but Titus himself, and a few

others with him, being left in the midst of the acclivity. Now

these others, who were his friends, despised the danger they

were in, and were ashamed to leave their general, earnestly

exhorting him, " to give way to these Jews that are fond of

dying, and not to run into such dangers before those that

ought to stay before him ; to consider what his fortune was,

and not, by supplying the place of a common soldier, to ven­

ture to turn back upon the enemy so suddenly; and this be­

cause he was general in the war, and lord of the habitable

earth, on whose preservation the public affairs do all depend."

These persuasions Titus seemed not so much as to hear, but

opposed those that ran upon him, and smote them on the

face; and when he had forced them to go back, he slew them:

he also fell upon great numbers as they marched down the

hill, and thrust them forward ; while those men were so amazed

at his courage and his strength, that they could not fly directly

