C. IV.] IS BURNED. 2G9

some of them were distracted with fighting, and others with

passion. But as for the legions that came running thither,

neither any persuasions nor any threatenings could restrain

their violence; but each one's own passion was his commander

at this time; and as they were crowding into the temple to­

gether, many of them were trampled on by one another,

while a great number fell among the ruins of the cloisters,

which were still hot and smoking, and were destroyed in the

same miserable way with those whom they had conquered:

and when they were come near the holy house, they made as

;f they did not so much as hear Caesar's orders to the con­

trary ; but they encouraged those that were before them to

set it on fire. As for the seditious, they were in too great

distress already to afford their assistance [towards quenching

the fire:] they were every where slain, and every where beat­

en; and as for a great part of the people, they were weak,

and without arms, and had their throats cut wherever they

were caught. Now round about the altar lay dead bodies

heaped one upon another, as at the stepsl going up to it ran

a great quantity of their blood, whither also the dead bodies

that were slain above [on the altar] fell down.

7. And now, since Caesar was no way able to restrain the

enthusiastic fury of the soldiers, and the fire proceeded on

more and more, he went into the holy place of the temple,

with his commanders, and saw it, with what was in it, which

he found to be far superior to what the relations of foreigners

contained, and not inferior to what wc ourselves boasted of

and believed about it. But as the flame had not as yet

reached to its inward parts, but was still consuming the rooms

that were about the holy house, and Titus supposing, what

the fact was, that the house itself might yet be saved, he camo

up in haste, and endeavored to persuade the soldiers to

These steps to the altar of burnt-offering, seem here cither an improper

and inaccurate expression of Josephus, since it was unlawful to make ladder

steps (see the description of the temples, chap. xiii. and note ou Antiq. 15.

iv. ch. viii. sect. 5,) or else those steps or stairs we now use were invented

before the days of Herod the Great, and had been here built by him; though

the later Jews always deny it, and say, that even Herod's altar was ascended

to by an acclivity only.

23 *

