C. IX.] SIMON OF GEEASA. 137

the battle all that day; and the dispute lay whether they had

conquered him or been conquered by him. So he went back

to Nain, as did the Idumeans return home. Nor was it long

ere Simon came violently again upon their country; when

he pitched his camp at a certain village called Thecoe, and

sent Eleazar, one of his companions, to those that kept garri­

son at Hcrodium, and in order to persuade them to surrender

that fortress to him. The garrison received this man readily,

while they knew nothing of what he came about; but as

soon as he talked of the surrender of the place, they fell

upon him with their drawn swords, till he found he had no

place for flight, when he threw himself down from the wall

into the valley beneath; so he died immediately; but the

Idumeans, who were already much afraid of Simon's power,

thought fit to take a view of the enemy's army before they

hazarded a battle with them.

6. Now there was one of their commanders named Jacob,

who offered to serve them readily upon that occasion, but had

it in his mind to betray them. He went, therefore, from the

village Allurus, wherein the army of the Idumeans were

gotten together, and came to Simon; and at the very first he

agreed to betray his country to him, and took assurances

upon oath from him that he should always have him in esteem,

and then promised him that he would assist him in subduing

all Idumea under him: upon which account ho was feasted

after an obliging manner by Simon, and elevated by his

mighty promises ; and when he was returned to his own men

he at first belied the army of Simon, and said it was manifold

more in number than what it was; after which he dexterously

persuaded the commanders, and, by degrees, the whole multi­

tude, to receive Simon, and to surrender the whole govern­

ment up to him without fighting. And as he was doing this,

he invited Simon by his messengers, and promised him to

disperse the Idumeans, which he performed also: for as soon

as their army was nigh them, he first of all got upon his

horse, and fled, together with those whom he had corrupted;

hereupon a terror fell upon the whole multitude, and before

12*

