C. IV.] COME TO JERUSALEM. 103

this so suddenly; because certainly you would not take all

your armor on the behalf of robbers, and against a people

of kin to you, without some very great cause for your so do­

ing. But we have an item that the Romans are pretended,

and that we are supposed to be going to betray this city to

them ; for some of your men have lately made a clamor about

those matters, and have said they are come to set their me­

tropolis free. Now wo cannot but admire at these wretches

in their devisjng such a lie as this against us; for they knew

there was no other way to irritate against us men that were

naturally desirous of liberty, and on that account the best

disposed to fight against foreign enemies, but by framing a

tale as if we were going to betray that most desirable thing,

liberty. But you ought to consider what sort of people they

are that raise this calumny, and against what sort of people

that calumny is raised, and to gather the truth of things not

by fictitious speeches, but out of the actions of both parties;

for what occasion is there for us to sell ourselves to the Ro­

mans 1 while it was in our power not to have revolted from

them at the first, or, when we had once revolted, to have re­

turned under their dominion again ; and this while the neigh­

boring countries were not yet laid waste: whereas it is not

an easy thing to be reconciled to the Romans, if we were de­

sirous of it, now they have subdued Galilee, and are thereby

become proud and insolent; and to endeavor to please them,

at the time when they are so near us, would bring such a re­

proach upon us as were worse than death. As for myself,

indeed, I should have preferred peace with them before death ;

but now wc have once made war upon them, and fought with

them, I prefer death, with reputation, before living in capti­

vity under them. But farther, whether do they pretend that

we, who are the rulers of the people, have sent thus privately

to the Romans, or hath it been done by the common suffrages

of the people ? If it bo ourselves only that have done it, let

them name those friends of ours that have been sent, as our

servants, to manage this treachery. Hath any one been

caught as he went out on this errand, or seized upon as ho

came back ? Are they in possession of our letters ? How

