C. IV.] THE TEMPLE GATES. 265

backwards headlong: others of them they met and slew: they

also beat many of those that went down the ladders again,

and slew them with their swords before they could bring their

shields to protect them; nay, some of the ladders they threw

down from above when they were full of armed men ; a great

slaughter was made of the Jews also at the same time, while

those that bare the ensigns fought hard for them, as deeming

it a terrible thing, and what would tend to their great shame,

if they permitted them to be stolen away. Yet did the Jews

at length get possession of these engines, and destroyed those

that had gone up the ladders, while the rest were so intimida­

ted by what those suffered who were slain that they retired,

although none of the Romans died without having done good

service before his death. Of the seditious, those that had

fought bravely in the former battles did the like now; as be­

sides them did Eleazar, the brother's son of Simon the tyrant.

But when Titus perceived that his endeavors to spare a

foreign temple turned to the damage of his soldiers, and made

them be killed, he gave order to set the gates on fire.

2. In the mean time there deserted to him Ananus, who

came from Emmaus, the most bloody of all Simon's guards,

and Archilaus, the son of Magadatus, they hoping to be still

forgiven, because they left the Jews at a time when they were

the conquerors. Titus objected this to these men as a cun­

ning trick of theirs; and as he had been informed of their

other barbarities towards the Jews, he was going in all hasto

to have them both slain. He told them, "that they were

only driven to this desertion because of the utmost distress

they were in, and did not come away of their own good dis­

position ; and that those did not deserve to be preserved, by

whom their own city was already set on fire, out of which

fire they now hurried themselves away." However, the

security he had promised deserters overcame his resentments,

and he dismissed them accordingly, though he did not give

them the same privileges that he had afforded to others. And

now the soldiers had already put fire to the gates, and the

silver that was over them quickly carried the flames to the

wood that was within it, whence it spread itself all on the

IV. —23

