C. I.] THE TOWER OP ANTONIA. 243

head with his left hand, and had with his right hand drawn

his sword, he marched up to the wall, just about the sixth

hour of the day. There followed him eleven others, and no

more, that resolved to imitate his bravery; but still this was

the principal person of them all, and went first, as excited by

a divine fury. Now those that guarded the wall shot at them

from thence, and cast innumerable darts upon them from

every side; they also rolled very large stones upon them,

which overthrew some of those eleven that were with him.

But as for Sabinus himself, he met the darts that were cast

at him; and though he were overwhelmed with them, yet did

he not leave off the violence of his attack before he had gotten

up on the top of the wall-, and had put the enemy to flight:

for as the Jews were astonished at his great strength and the

bravery of his soul, and as, withal, they imagined more of

them had got upon the wall than really had, they were put

to flight. And now one cannot but complain here of fortune,

as still envious at virtue, and always hindering the perform­

ance of glorious achievements : this was the case of the man

before us, when he had just obtained his purpose; for he then

stumbled at a certain large stone, and fell down upon it head­

long, with a very great noise: upon which the Jews turned

back, and when they saw him to be alone, and fallen down

also, they threw darts at him from every side. However, he

got upon his knee, and covered himself with his shield, and

at the first defended himself against them, and wounded many

of those that came near him: but he was soon forced to relax

his right hand, by the multitude of the wounds that had been

given him, till, at length, he was quite covered over with darts,

before he gave up the ghost. Ho was one who deserved a

better fate, by reason of his bravery; but, as might be ex­

pected, he fell under so vast an attempt. As for the rest of

his partners, the Jews dashed three of them to pieces with

stones, and slew them, as they were gotten up to the top of

the wall; the other eight being wounded, were pulled down,

and carried back to the camp. These things were done upon

'he third day of the month Panemus [Tamuz.]

7. Now, two days afterward, twelve of those men that

