4755 DISSERTATION I.

About A. D. 1360. Nicephorus Callistus Hist. Eccles. lib.

i. p. 90, 91.—Now this [concerning Herod the tetrarch] is

attested to, not only by the book of the holy gospels, but by

Josephus, that lover of truth ; who also makes mention of He-

rodias, his brother's wife, whom Herod had taken away from

him, while he was alive, and married her, having divorced his

former lawful wife, who was the daughter of Aretas, king of

the Petrean Arabians. This Herodias he had married, and

lived with her: on which account also, when he had slain

John, ho made war with Aretas, because his daughter had

been dishonorably used; in which war he relates that all

Herod's army was destroyed, and that he suffered this on

account of the most unjust slaughter of John. He also adds

that John was a most righteous man. Moreover, he makes

mention of his baptism, agreeing in all points thereto relating

with the gospel. He also informs us that Herod lost his king­

dom on account of Herodias, with whom also he was con­

demned to be banished to Vienna, which was their place of

exile, and a city bordering upon Gaul, and lying near the

utmost bounds of the west.

About A. D. 1450. Hardmannus Schedelius Chron. p.

110.—Josephus the Jew, who was called Flavius. a priest,

and the son of Mattathias, a priest of that nation, a most cele­

brated historian, and very skilful in many things: he was

certainly a good man, and of an excellent character, who had

the highest opinion of Christ.

About A. D. 1480. Platina de Vitis Pontificum in Christo.

— I shall avoid mentioning what Christ did until the 30th

year of his age, when he was baptised by John, the son of Za-

charias, because not only the gospels and epistles are full

of those acts of his, which he did in the most excellent and

most holy manner, but the books of such as were quite remote

from his way of living, and acting, and ordaining, arc also

full of the same. Flavius Josephus himself, who wrote twenty

books of Jewish Antiquities in the Greek tongue, when he had

proceeded as far as the government of the emperor Tiberius,

says, there was in those days Jesus, a certain wise man, if at

least it be lawful to call him a man, for he was a doer of won­

