B. I.] A GAINST A PI ON. 403

was Phritiphantes. As to the numbers of the multitude that

were expelled, they agree exceedingly well,1 the former

reckoning them eighty thousand and the latter about two

hundred and fifty thousand. Now, for Manetho, he describes

these polluted persons as sent first to work in the quarries,

and says that after that the city Avaris was given them for

their habitation. As also he relates, that it was not till after

they had made war with the rest of the Egyptians, that they

invited the people of Jerusalem to come to their assistance;

while Cheremon says only, that they were gone out of Egypt,

and lighted upon three hundred and eighty thousand men

about Pelusium, who had been left there by Amenophis, and

so they invaded Egypt with them again; that thereupon

Amenophis fled into Ethiopia. But, then, this Cheremon

commits a most ridiculous blunder in not informing us who

this army of so many ten thousands were, or whence they

came ; whether they were native Egyptians, or whether they

came from a foreign country. Nor, indeed, has this man,

who forged a dream from Isis, about the leprous people, as­

signed the reason why the king would not bring them into

Egypt. Moreover, Cheremon sets down Joseph as driven

away at the same time with Moses, who yet died four2 gene­

rations before Moses, which four generations make almost

one hundred and seventy years. Besides all this, Ramesses,

the son of Amenophis, by Manetho's account was a young

man, and assisted his father in this war, and left the country

at the same time with him, and fled into Ethiopia. But Che­

remon makes him to have been born in a certain cave, after

his father was dead, and that he then overcame the Jews in

battle, and drove them into Syria, being in number about

two hundred thousand. O the levity of the man! For he

had neither told us who these three hundred and eighty thou­

sand were, nor how the four hundred and thirty thousand

1 By way of irony, I suppose.

-' Here we see that Josephus esteemed a generation between Joseph and  
Moses to be about 42 or 43 years; which, if taken between the earlier chil­

dren, well agrees with the duration of human life in those ages. Sec Authent.

Rec. Part II. p. 906, 1019, 1020.

