B. I.] AGAINST APION. 385

contemporary with king Alexander in his youth, and after­

wards was with Ptolemy the son of Lagus: he did not write

about the Jewish affairs by the by only, but composed an

entire book concerning the Jews themselves, out of which

book I am willing to run over a few things, of which I have

been treating, by way of epitome. And, in the first place,

I will demonstrate the time when this IIecateus lived; for he

mentions the fight that was between Ptolemy and Demetrius

about Gaza, which was fought on the eleventh year after the

death of Alexander, and on the hundred and seventeenth

Olympiad, as Castor says in his history. For when he had

set down this Olympiad, he says farther, — "That on this

Olympiad, Ptolemy, the son of Lagus, beat in battle Deme­

trius, the son of Antigonus, who was named Poliorcetes, at

Gaza." Now it is agreed by all, that Alexander died on the

hundred and fourteenth Olympiad ; it is, therefore, evident,

that our nation flourished in his time and in the time of Alex­

ander. Again, Hecateus says, to the same purpose, as fol­

lows :—" Ptolemy got possession of the places in Syria after

that battle at Gaza; and many, when they heard of Ptolemy's

moderation and humanity, went along with him to Egypt,

and were willing to assist him in his affairs: one of which,"

Hecateus says, "was Hezekiah,1 the high-priest of the Jews;

a man of about sixty-six years of age, and in great dignity

among his own people. He was a very sensible man, and

could speak very movingly, and was very skilful in the

management of affairs, if any other man ever were so;

although, as he says, all the priests of the Jews took tithes

of the products of the earth, and managed public affairs, and

were in number not above fifteen hundred at the most."

Hecateus mentions this Hezekiah a second time, and says,

that " as he was possessed of so great a dignity, and was be­

come familiar with us, so did he take certain of those that

1 This Hezekiah, who is here called a high-priest, is not named in Jose-

phus's catalogue; the real high-priest at that time being rather Onias, as

Archbishop Usher supposes. However, Josephus often uses the word high-

priest in the plural number, as living many at the same time. Sec the not*

on Antiq. B. xx. ch. viii. sect. 8.

IV. —33

