C. III.] GALILEE. 13

Tyrians from it; its length is also from Mcloth to Thella, a

village near to Jordan.

2. These two Galilees, of so great largeness, and encom­

passed with so many nations of foreigners, have been always

able to make a strong resistance on all occasions of war; for

the Galileans are inured to war from their infancy, and have

been always very numerous; nor hath the country been ever

destitute of men of courage, or wanted a numerous set of

them : for their soil is universally rich and fruitful, and full

of the plantations of trees of all sorts, insomuch that it in­

vites the most slothful to take pains in its cultivation by its

fruitfulness : accordingly, it is all cultivated by its inhabit­

ants, and no part of it lies idle. Moreover, the cities lie hero

very thick, and the very many villages there are here are

every where so full of people, by the richness of their soil,

that the very least of them contained above fifteen thousand

inhabitants.

3. In short, if any one will suppose that Galilee is inferior

to Perea in magnitude, he will be obliged to prefer it before

it in its strength; for this is all capable of cultivation, and is

every where fruitful; but for Perea, which is, indeed, much

larger in extent, the greater part of it is desert and rough,

and much less disposed for the production of the milder kinds

of fruits; yet hath it a moist soil [in other parts,] and pro­

duces all kinds of fruits, and its plains are planted with trees

of all sorts, while yet the olive-tree, the vine, and the palm-

trees, are chiefly cultivated there. It is also sufliciently

watered with torrents, which issue out of the mountains, and

with springs that never fail to run, even when the torrents

fail them, as they do in the dog-days. Now the length of

Perea is from Macherus to Pella, and its breadth from Phila­

delphia to Jordan : its northern parts are bounded by Pella,

as we have already said, as well as its western with Jordan;

the land of Moab is its southern border, and its eastern

limits reach to Arabia and Silbonitis, and besides to Phila-

dclphene and Gcrasa.

4. Now as to the country of Samaria, it lies between Judea

and Galilee: it begins at a village that is in the great plain

IV. —2

