C. VI.] TITUS PRESSES THE SIEGE. 191

<vere opposed to them when they made their excursions.

These engines, that all the legions had ready prepared for

them, were admirably contrived; but still more extraordinary

ones belonged to the tenth legion: those that threw darts

and those that threw stones were more forcible and larger

than the rest, by which they not only repelled the excur­

sions of the Jews, but drove those away that were upon the

walls also. Now the stones that were cast were of the weight

of a talent, and were carried two furlongs and farther. The

blow they gave was no way to be sustained, not only by those

that stood first in the way, but by those that were beyond

them for a great space. As for the Jews, they at first

watched the coming of the stone, for it was of a white color,

and could, therefore, not only be perceived by the great

noise it made, but could be seen also before it came by its

brightness: accordingly, the watchmen that sat upon the

towers gave them notice when the engine was let go, and the

stone came from it, and cried out aloud, in their own country

language, The son cometh :' so those that were in its way

1 What should be the meaning of this signal or watehword, when the

watchmen saw a stone coming from the engine, The son cometh, or what

mistake there is in the reading, I cannot tell. The MSS., both Greek and

Latin, all agree in this reading; and I cannot approve of any groundless

conjectural alteration of the text from nos to ios, that not the son or a

stone, but that the arrow or dart cometh; as hath been made by Dr. Hudson,

and not corrected by Havercamp. Had Joscphus written even his first

edition of these books of the war in pure Hebrew, or had the Jews then

used the pure Hebrew at Jerusalem, the Hebrew word for a son is so like

that for a stone, Ben and Eben, that such a correction might have been more

easily admitted. But Josephus wrote his former edition for the use of the

Jews beyond Euphrates, and so in the Chaldee language, as he did this

second edition in the Greek language: and Bar was the Chaldee word for

son, instead of the Hebrew Ben, and was used not only in Chaldea, &c,

but in Judca also, as the New Testament informs us. Dio also lets us know

that the very Romans at Rome pronounced the name of Simon, the son of

Gioras, Bar Boras for Bar Gioras, as we learn from Xiphiline, p. 217.

lleland takes notice, "That many will here look for a mystery, as though

the meaning were that the Son of God came now to take vengeance on the

sins of the Jewish nation," which is, indeed, the truth of the fact, but

hardly what the Jews could now mean; unless, possibly by way of derision

of Christ's threatenings so often made, that he would come at the head of

the Roman army for their destruction But even this interpretation has

