446 FLAVIUS JOSEPHUS [B. II.

not at random, or at every one's pleasure, or being under in­

violable rules in lying with our wives, in magnificent furni­

ture, and again in the observation of our times of rest; while

those that can use their swords in war, and can put their

enemies to flight when they attack them, cannot bear to sub­

mit to such laws about their way of living : whereas our being

accustomed willingly to submit to laws in these instances,

renders us fit to show our fortitude upon other occasions also.

34. Yet do the Lysimachi and the Molones, and some other

writers (unskilful sophists as they are,) and the deceivers of

young men, reproach us as the vilest of all mankind. Now I

have no mind to make an inquiry into the laws of other na­

tions ; for the custom of our country is to keep our own laws,

but not to bring accusations against the laws of others. And,

indeed, our legislator hath expressly forbidden us to laugh at

and revile those that are esteemed gods by other people,1 on

account of the very name of God ascribed to them. But

since our antagonists think to run us down upon the compa­

rison of their religion and ours, it is not possible to keep

silence here, especially while what I shall say to confute these

men will not be now first said, but hath been already said by

many, and these of the highest reputation also: for who is

there among those that have been admired among the Greeks

for wisdom, who hath not greatly blamed both the most fa­

mous poets, and most celebrated legislators for spreading

such notions originally among the body of the people con­

cerning the gods ? such as these, that they may be allowed to

be as numerous as they have a mind to have them ; that they

are begotten one by another, and that after all the kinds of

generation you can imagine. They also distinguish them in

their places and ways of living, as they would distinguish

several sorts of animals: as some to be under the earth; as

some to be in the sea; and the ancientest of them all to be

bound in hell: and for those to whom they have allotted

heaven, they have set over them one, who in title is their

father, but in his actions a tyrant ;md a lord ; whence it came

to pass that his wife, and brother, and daughter (which

1 Sec Antiq. B. iv. ch. viii. sect 10, mid its note.

