8 • VESPASIAN. [B. III.

Vespasian equal to the task, and able to undergo the great

burden of so mighty a war, seeing he was grown an old man

already in the camp, and from his youth had been exercised

in warlike exploits: he was also a man that had long ago

pacified the west, and made it subject to the Romans, when

it had been put into disorder by the Germans: he had also

recovered to them Britain by his arms, which had been little

known before;' whereby he procured to his father, Claudius,

to have a triumph bestowed on him without any sweat or

labor of his own.

3. So Nero esteemed these circumstances as favorable

omens, and saw that Vespasian's age gave him sure expe­

rience and great skill, and that he had his sons as hostages

for his fidelity to himself, and that the flourishing age they

were in would make them fit instruments under their father's

prudence. Perhaps also there was some interposition of

Providence, which was paving the way for Vespasian's being

himself emperor afterwards. Upon the whole, he sent this

man to take upon him the command of the armies that were

in Syria; but this not without great encomiums and flattering

compellations, such as necessity required, and such as might

mollify him into complaisance. So Vespasian sent his son

Titus from Achaia, where he had been with Nero, to Alex­

andria, to bring back with him from thence the fifth and the

tenth legions, while he himself, when he had passed over the

Hellespont, came by land into Syria, where he gathered to­

gether the Roman forces, with a considerable number of

auxiliaries from the kings in that neighborhood.

1 Take the confirmation of this in the words of Suetonius, here produced

by Dr. Hudson: "In the reign of Claudius," says he, "Vespasian, for the

sake of Narcissus, was sent as a lieutenant of a legion into Germany.

Thence he removed into Britain, and fought thirty battles with the enemy."

In Vesp. sect. 4. We may also here note from Josephus, that Claudius the

emperor, who triumphed for the conquest of Britain, was enabled so to do

by Vespasian's conduct and bravery, and that he is here styled the father

of Vespasian.

