390 FLAVIUS JOSEPHOS [b. I.

fer the observation of their laws and their religion towards

God before the preservation of themselves and their country.

23. Now that some writers have omitted to mention our

nation, not because they knew nothing of us, but because

they envied us, or for some other unjustifiable reasons, I

think I can demonstrate by particular instances: for Hiero-

nymus, who wrote the history of [Alexander's] successors,

lived at the same time with Hecateus, and was a friend of

king Antigonus, and president of Syria. Now it is plain,

that Hecateus wrote an entire- book concerning us, while

Ilieronymus never mentions us in his history, although he

was bred up very near to the places where we live: thus dif­

ferent from one another arc the inclinations of men; while

the one thought we deserved to be carefully remembered, as

some ill-disposed passion blinded the other's mind so entirely,

that he could not discern the truth. And now certainly the

foregoing records of the Egyptians, and Chaldeans, and

Phoenicians, together with so many of the Greek writers, will

be sufficient for the demonstration of our antiquity. More­

over, besides those forementioned, Theophilus, and Theodo-

tus, and Mnaseas, and Aristophanes, and Hermogenes, Eu-

hemerus, also, and Conon, and Zopyrion, and, perhaps, many

others (for I have not lighted upon all the Greek books,) have

made distinct mention of us. It is true, many of the men

before mentioned have made great mistakes about the true

accounts of our nation in the earliest times, because they had

not perused our sacred books; yet have they all of them

afforded their testimony to our antiquity, concerning which I

am now treating. However, Demetrius Phalereus and the

elder Philo, with Eupolemus, have not greatly missed tho

truth about our affairs; whose lesser mistakes ought, there­

fore, to be forgiven them; for it was not in their power to

understand our writings with the utmost accuracy.

24. One particular there is still remaining behind, of what

I at first proposed to speak to, and that is to demonstrate,

that those calumnies and reproaches which some have thrown

upon our nation are lies, and to make use of those writers'

own testimonies against themselves; and that, in general,

