C. III.] THE HKJH-PUIEST ANANUS. 98

sible of their calamities, and where there is no notion re足

maining of any remedy for the miseries that are upon them ?

For when you are seized upon, you bear it, and when you are

silent, and when people are murdered, nobody dares so much

as send out a groan openly. O bitter tyranny that we are

under! But why do I complain of the tyrants ? Was it not

you that overlooked those that first of all got together, for

they were then but a few, and by your silence made them

grow to be many, and by conniving at them when they took

arms, in effect armed them against yourselves ? You ought

to have then prevented their first attempts, when they fell a

reproaching your relations; but by neglecting that care in

time, you have encouraged these wretches to plunder men.

When houses were pillaged, nobody said a word, which was

the occasion why they carried off the owners of those houses;

and when they were drawn through the midst of the city,

nobody came to their assistance. They then proceeded to

put those whom you had betrayed into their hands into

bonds; I do not say how many, and of what characters those

men were whom they thus served, but certainly they were

such as were accused by none, and condemned by none ; and

since nobody succored them when they were put into bonds,

the consequence was, that you saw the same persons slain.

We have seen this also ; so that still the best of the herd of

brute animals, as it were, have been still led to be sacrificed,

when yet nobody said one word, or moved his right hand for

their preservation. Will you bear, therefore, will you bear

to see your sanctuary trampled on ? and will you lay steps

for these profane wretches, upon which they may mount to

higher degrees of insolence ? Will not you pluck them down

from their exaltation ? For even by this time they had pro足

ceeded to higher enormities, if they had been able to over足

throw any thing greater than the sanctuary. They have

seized upon the strongest place of the whole city; you may

call it the temple if you please, though it be like a citadel or

fortress. Now while you have tyranny in so great a degree

walled in, and see your enemies over your heads, to what pur足

pose is it to take counsel ? And what have you to support

