C. III.] POSITION OF THE ROMANS. 173

low-soldiers, and made supplication to him, that he would

pardon the rashness of a few on account of the better obe­

dience of all the rest; and promised for them, that they

should make amends for their present fault by their more

virtuous behavior for the time to come.

5. So Caesar complied with their desires, and with what

prudence dictated to him also ; for he esteemed it fit to punish

single persons by real executions, but that the punishment

of great multitudes should proceed no farther than reproofs:

so he was reconciled to the soldiers, but gave them a special

charge to act more wisely for the future; and he considered

with himself how he might be even with the Jews for their

stratagem. And now, when the space between the Romans

and the wall had been levelled, which was done in four days,

and as he was desirous to bring the baggage of the army,

with the rest of the multitude that followed him, safely to the

camp, he set the strongest part of his army over against that

wall which lay on the north quarter of the city, and over

against the western part of it, and made his army seven deep,

with the footmen placed before them, and the horsemen behind

them, each of the last in three ranks, while the archers stood

in the midst in seven ranks. And now, as the Jews were

prohibited, by so great a body of men, from making sallies

upon the Romans, both the beasts that bare the burdens, and

belonged to the three legions, and the rest of the multitude,

marched on without any fear. But as for Titus himself, he

was but about two furlongs distant from the wall, at that part

of it where was the corner,' and over against that tower which

was called Psephinus; at which tower the compass of the

wall belonging to the north bended, and extended itself over

against the west; but the other part of the army fortified it­

self at the tower called Jiippicus, and was distant, in like

manner, but two furlongs from the city. However, the tenth

legion continued in its own place upon the Mount of Olives.

1 Perhaps, says Dr. Hudson, here was that gate called the Gate of the

Corner, in 2 Chron. xxvi. 9. See ch. iv. sect. 2

15*

