534 DISSERTATION III.

the Antiquities of Josephus, and knew that the most part of

the accounts he produced of the origin of the Jewish nation

entirely contradicted those Antiquities. He also could hardly

avoid seeing that those accounts contradicted one another

also, and were childish, absurd, and supported by no good

evidence whatsoever: as also, he could hardly avoid seeing

that Josephus's accounts in those Antiquities were authentic,

substantial, and thoroughly attested to by the ancient records

of that nation, and of the neighboring nations also, which,

indeed, no one can now avoid seeing, that carefully peruses

and considers them.

IV. Tacitus, therefore, in concealing the greatest part of

the true ancient history of the Jewish nation, which lay before

him in Josephus, and producing such fabulous, ill-grounded,

and partial histories, which he had from the heathens, acted

a most unfair part: and this procedure of his is here the

more gross, in regard he professed such great impartiality,

Hist. b. i. cap. i. and is allowed to have observed that impar足

tiality in the Roman affairs also.

V. Tacitus's hatred and contempt of God's peculiar people,

the Jews, and his attachment to the grossest idolatry, super足

stition, and astral fatality of the Romans, were, therefore, so

strong in him, as to overbear all restraints of sober reason

and equity in the case of those Jews, though he be allowed

so exactly to have followed them on other occasions relating

to tho Romans.

VI. Since, therefore, Tacitus was so bitter against the

Jews, and since he knew that Christ was a Jew himself, and

that his apostles and first followers were Jews, and also knew

that the Christian religion was derived into the Roman pro足

vinces from Judea, it is no wonder that his hatred and con足

tempt of the Jews extended itself to the Christians also, whom

the Romans usually confounded with the Jews : as, therefore,

his hard words of the Jews appear to have been generally

groundless, and hurt his own reputation, instead of theirs, so

ought we to esteem his alike hard words of the Christians tc

be blots upon his own character and not upon theirs.

