186 THE TEMPLE. [B. V.

on an inner garment of linen, together with a blue garment

round without seam, with fringe-work, and reaching to the

feet. There were also golden bells that hung upon the

fringes, and pomegranates intermixed among them. The

bells signified thunder, and the pomegranates lightning.

But that girdle that tied the garment to the breast was

embroidered with five rows of various colors of gold, and

purple, and scarlet, as also of fine linen and blue, with which

colors we told you before the veils of the temple were em­

broidered also. The like embroidery was upon the ephod;

but the quantity of gold therein was greater. Its figure was

that of a stomacher for the breast. There were upon it two

golden buttons like small shields, which buttoned the ephod

to the garment: in these buttons were enclosed two very

large and very excellent sardonyxes, having the names of

the tribes of that nation engraved upon them : on the other

part there hung twelve stones, three in a row one way, and

four in the other; a sardius, a topaz, and an emerald; a car­

buncle, a jasper, and a sapphire; an agate, an amethyst, and

a ligure; an onyx, a beryl, and a chrysolite; upon every ono

of which was again engraved one of the forementioned names

of the tribes. A mitre also of fine linen encompassed his

head, which was tied by a blue riband, about which there was

another golden crown, in which was engraven the sacred

name [of God:] it consists of four vowels. However, the

high-priest did not wear these garments at other times, but

a more plain habit; he only did it when he went into the

most sacred part of the temple, which he did but once in a

year, on that day when our custom is for all of us to keep a

fast to God. And thus much concerning the city and the

temple; but for the customs and laws hereto relating, we

shall speak more accurately another time; for there remain

a great many things thereto relating, which have not been

here touched upon.

8. Now, as to the tower of Antonia, it was situated at the

corner of two cloisters of the court of the temple, of that on

the west and that on the north; it was erected upon a rock

of fifty cubits in height, and was on a great precipice : it was

the work of king Herod, wherein he demonstrated his

