88 -TUB ZEALOTS. [B. IV.

upon nis giving them his right hand for their preservation.

There were besides disorders and civil wars in every city,

and all those that were at quiet from the Romans turned

their hands one against another. There was also a bitter

contest between those that were fond of war and those that

were desirous of peace. At the first, this quarrelsome temper

caught hold of private families, who could not agree among

themselves ; after which those people that were the dearest

to one another brake through all restraints with regard to

each other, and every one associated with those of his own

opinion, and began already to stand in opposition one to an­

other ; so that seditions arose every where, while those that

were for innovations, and were desirous of war, by their

youth and boldness, were too hard for the aged and prudent

men. And, in the first place, all the people of every place

betook themselves to rapine; after which they got together

in bodies, in order to rob the people of the country, inso­

much that for barbarity and iniquity those of the same nation

did no way differ from the Romans; nay, it seemed to be a

much lighter thing to be ruined by the Romans than by

themselves.

3. Now the Roman garrisons which guarded tho cities,

partly out of their uneasiness to take such trouble upon

them, and partly out of tho hatred they bare to the Jewish

nation, did little or nothing towards relieving the miserable,

till the captains of these troops of robbers, being satiated

with rapines in the country, got all together from all parts,

and became a band of wickedness, and all together crept into

Jerusalem, which was now become a city without a governor,

and, as the ancient custom was, received without distinction

all that belonged to their nation; and these they then re­

ceived, because all men supposed that those who came so fast

into the city, came out of kindness, and for their assistance,

although these very men, besides the seditions they raised,

were otherwise the direct cause of the city's destruction also;

for as they were an unprofitable and a useless multitude, they

spent those provisions beforehand which might otherwise have

been sufficient for the fighting-men. Moreover, besides the

