190 TITUS PRESSES THE SIEGE. [B. V".

reproached them to persuade them to what tended to their

own preservation, was provoked to press on the siege. He

also, at the same time, gave his soldiers leave to set the

suburbs on fire, and ordered that they should bring timber

together, and raise banks against the city; and when he had

parted his army into three parts, in order to set about those

. works, he placed those that shot darts and the archers in the

midst of the banks that were then raising; before whom ho

placed those engines that threw javelins, and darts, and stones,

that he might prevent the enemy from sallying out upon their

works, and might hinder those that were upon the wall from

being able to obstruct them. So the trees were now cut down

immediately, and the suburbs left naked. But now while the

timber was carrying to raise the banks, and the whole army

was earnestly engaged in their works, the Jews were not,

however, quiet; and it happened that the people of Jerusalem,

who had been hitherto plundered and murdered, were now of

good courage, and supposed they should have a breathing

time, while the others were very busy in opposing their

enemies without the city; and that they should now be

avenged on those that had been the authors of their miseries,

in case the Romans did but get the victory.

3. However, John stayed behind out of his fear of Simon,

even while his own men were earnest in making a sally upon

their enemies without. Yet did not Simon lie still, for he

lay near the place of the siege; he brought his engines of

war, and disposed of them at due distances upon the wall;

both those which they took from Cestius formerly, and those

which they got when they seized the garrison that lay in the

tower Antonia. But though they had these engines in their

possession, they had so little skill in using them, that they

were in a great measure useless to them; but a few there

were who had been taught by deserters how to use them,

which they did use, though after an awkward manner. So

they cast stones and arrows at those that were making the

banks; they also ran out upon them by companies, and fought

with them. Now, those that were at work covered them­

selves with hurdles spread over their banks, and their engines

