108 THE IDC MEANS [b. IV.

were the minds of the Idumeans at rest; for they were in a

rage at the injury that had been offered them, by their ex­

clusion out of the city; and when they thought the zealots

had been strong, but saw nothing of theirs to support them,

they were in doubt about the matter, and many of them re­

pented that they had come thither. But the shame that

would attend them, in case they returned without doing any

thing at all, so far overcame that their repentance, that they

lay all night before the wall, though in a very bad encamp­

ment ; for there broke out a prodigious storm in the night,

with the utmost violence, and very strong winds, with the

largest showers of rain, with continual lightnings, terrible

thunderings, and amazing concussions and bellowings of the

earth that was in an earthquake. These things were a mani­

fest indication that some destruction was coming upon men,

when the system of the world was put into this disorder, and

any one would guess that these wonders foreshowed some

grand calamities that were coming.

6. Now the opinion of the Idumeans and of the citizens

was one and the same. The Idumeans thought that God was

angry at their taking arms, and that they would not escape

punishment for their making war upon their metropolis.

Ananus and his party thought that they had conquered with­

out fighting, and that God acted as a general for them; but

truly they proved ill conjectures at what was to come, and

made those events to be ominous to their enemies, while they

were themselves to undergo the ill effects of them; for the

Idumeans fenced one another by uniting their bodies into one

band, and thereby kept themselves warm, and connecting

their shields over their heads, were not so much hurt by the

rain. But the zealots were more deeply concerned for the

danger these men were in, than they were for themselves,

and got together, and looked about them to see whether they

could devise any means of assisting them. The hotter sort

of them thought it best to force their guards with their arms,

and after that to fall into the midst of the city, and publicly

open the gates to those that came to their assistance; as

supposing the guards would be in disorder, and give way at

