C. IX.] SIMON OF GBRASA. 139

which was barren. In short, there was no sign remaining

of those places that had been laid waste that ever they had

had a being.

8. This success of Simon excited the zealots afresh; and

though they were afraid to fight him openly in a fair battle,

yet did they lay ambushes in the passes, and seized upon his

wife, with a considerable number of her attendants ; where足

upon they came back to the city rejoicing, as if they had

taken Simon himself captive, and were in present expectation

that he would lay down his arms, and make supplication to

them for his wife ; but instead of indulging any merciful affec足

tion, he grew very angry at them for seizing his beloved wife;

so he came to the wall of Jerusalem, and, like wild beasts when

they are wounded and cannot overtake those that wounded

them, he vented his spleen upon all persons that he met with.

Accordingly, he caught all those that were come out of the

city gates, either to gather herbs or sticks, who were unarmed

and in years ; he then tormented them and destroyed them,

out of the immense rage he was in, and was almost ready to

taste the very flesh of their dead bodies. He also cut off the

hands of a great many, and sent them into the city to astonish

his enemies, and in order to make the people fall into a

sedition, and desert those that had been the authors of his

wife's seizure. He also enjoined them to tell the people, that

Simon swore by the God of the universe, who sees all things,

that unless they will restore him his wife, he will break down

their wall, and inflict the like punishment upon all the citizens,

without sparing any age, and without making any distinction

between the guilty and the innocent. These threatenings so

greatly affrighted not the people only, but the zealots them足

selves also, that they sent his wife back to him, when he be足

came a little milder, and left off his perpetual blood-shedding.

9. But now sedition and civil war prevailed not only over

Judea, but in Italy also; for now Galba was slain in the midst

of the Roman market-place; then was Otho made emperor,

and fought against Vitellius, who set up for emperor also, for

the legions in Germany had chosen him. But when he gave

battle to Valens and Cecinna, who were Vitcllius's generals

