C. V.] II1E IS M P L E. 181

the outside adorned with any work of the painter or engraver.

The cloisters [of the outmost court] were in breadth thirty

cubits, while the entire compass of it was by measure six fur­

longs, including the tower of Antonia; those entire courts

that were exposed to the air were laid with stones of all sorts.

When you go through these [first] cloisters unto the second

[court of the] temple, there was a partition, made of stone all

round, whose height was three cubits; its construction was

very elegant; upon it stood pillars, at equal distances from

one another, declaring the law of purity, some in Greek and

some in Roman letters, that no foreigner should go within

that sanctuary ; for that second [court of the] temple was

called the Sanctuary, and was ascended to by fourteen steps

from the first court. This court was four-square, and had a

wall about it peculiar to itself; the height of its buildings,

although it were ' on the outside forty cubits, was hidden by

the steps, and on the inside that height was but twenty-five

cubits , for it being built over against a higher part of the hill

with steps, it was no farther to be entirely discerned within,

being covered by the hill itself. Beyond these fourteen steps

there was the distance of ten cubits: this was all plain;

whence there were other steps, each of five cubits a-piece, that

led to the gates, which gates on the north and south sides

were eight, on each of those sides four, and of necessity two

on the east. For since there was a partition built for the

women on that side, as the proper place wherein they were to

worship, there was a necessity of a second gate for them ; this

1 What Josephus seems here to mean is this, that these pillars supporting

the cloisters in the second court, had their foundations or lowest parts as

deep as the floor of the first or lowest court, but that so far of those
lowest

parts as were equal to the elevation of the upper floor above the lowest,
were,

and must be, hidden on the inside by the ground or rock itself, on which that

upper court was built: so that forty cubits visible below were reduced to

twenty-five visiblo above, and implies the difference of their heights to be

fifteen cubits. The main difficulty lies here, how fourteen or fifteen steps

should give an ascent of fifteen cubits, half a cubit seeming sufficient for a

single step. Possibly there were fourteen or fifteen steps at the partition

wall, and fourteen or fifteen more thence into the court itself, which would

bring the whole near to the just proportion. Sec sect. 3, infra. But I deter­

mine nothing.

rv\ —16

