396 KLAVIUS JOSEPHUB [B. I.

but were not satisfied till they had been guilty of sacrilege,

and destroyed the images of the gods, and used them in

roasting of those sacred animals that used to be worshipped,

and forced the priests and prophets to be the executioners

and murderers of those animals, and then ejected them naked

out of the country. It was also reported, that the priest who

ordained their polity and their laws was by birth of Heliopolis,

and his name Osarsiph, from Osyris, who was the god of

Heliopolis; but that, when he was gone over to these people,

his name was changed, and he was called Mooes."

27. This is what the Egyptians relate about the Jews, with

much more, which I omit for the sake of brevity.—But still

Manetho goes on, that " after this Amenophis returned back

from Ethiopia with a great army, as did his son Rhampses

with another army also; and that both of them joined battle

with the shepherds and the polluted people, and beat them,

and slew a great many of them, and pursued them to the

bounds of Syria." These and the like accounts are written

by Manetho. But I will demonstrate that he trifles, and tells

arrant lies, after I have made a distinction which will relate

to what I am going to say about him: for this Manetho had

granted and confessed that this nation was not originally

Egyptian, but that they had come from another country, and

subdued Egypt, and then went away again out of it. But that

those Egyptians who were thus diseased in their bodies were

not mingled with us afterward, and that Moses who brought

the people out was not one of that company, but lived many

generations earlier, I shall endeavor to demonstrate from

Manetho's own accounts themselves.

28. Now for the first occasion of this fiction, Manetho sup­

poses what is no better than a ridiculous thing; for he says

that " King Amenophis desired to see the gods." What gods,

I pray, did he desire to see ? If he meant the gods whom

their laws ordained to be worshipped, the ox, the goat, tho

crocodile, and the baboon, he saw them already ; but for the

heavenly gods, how could he see them, and what should occa­

sion this his desire ? To be sure,1 it was because another king

1 Gt. By Jupiter.

