3T8 FLAVIUSJOSEPHUS [B. I.

but for himself he adorned the temple of Belus, and the other

temples, after an elegant manner, out of the spoils he had

taken in the war. He also rebuilt the old city, and added

another to it on the outside, and so far restored Babylon, that,

none who should besiege it afterwards might have it in their

power to divert the river, so as to facilitate an entrance into

it; and this he did by building three walls about the inner

city, and three about the outer. Some of these walls he built

of burnt brick and bitumen, and some of brick only. So when

he had thus fortified the city with walls, after an excellent

manner, and had adorned the gates magnificently, he added

a new palace to that which his father had dwelt in, and this

close by it also, and that more eminent in its height and in

its great splendor; it would, perhaps, require too long a nar­

ration, if any one were to describe it; however, as prodigious,

large and as magnificent as it was, it was finished in fifteen

days. Now in this palace he erected very high walks, sup­

ported by stone pillars; and by planting what was called a

pensile paradise, and replenishing it with all sorts of trees, he

rendered the prospect of an exact resemblance of a moun­

tainous country. This he did to please his queen, because

she had been brought up in Media, and was fond of a moun­

tainous situation."1

20. This is what Berosus relates concerning the foremen-

tioned king, as he relates many other things about him also

in the third book of his Chaldean history: wherein he com­

plains of the Grecian writers for supposing, without any foun­

dation, that Babylon was built by Semiramis,1 queen of Assy­

ria, and for her false pretence to those wonderful edifices

thereto relating, as if they were her own workmanship; as,

indeed, in these affairs the Chaldean history cannot but be the

most credible. Moreover, we meet with a confirmation of what

Berosus says, in the archives of the Phoenicians, concerning

this king Nabuchodonosor, that he conquered all Syria and

Phoenicia ; in which case Philostratus agrees with the others

1 The groat improvements that Nebuchadnezzar made in the buildings at

Babylon, do no way contradict those ancient and authentic testimonies which

ascribe its first building to Nimro 1, and its first rebuilding to Semiramis,
as

Berosus seems hero to suppose.

