C. VII.] EVENTS OF THE SIE8E. 199

He said, that lie would come down, if he would give him his

right hand for his security. To which Titus replied, that he

was well pleased with such his agreeable conduct, and would

be well pleased if all the Jews would be of his mind, and

that he was ready to give the like security to the city. Now

five of the ten dissembled with him, and pretended to beg for

mercy, while the rest cried out aloud, that they would never

be slaves to the Romans, while it was in their power to die

in a state of freedom. Now, while these men were quarrel­

ling for a long while, the attack was delayed; Castor also

sent to Simon, and told him that they might take some time

for consultation about what was to be done, because he would

delude the power of the Romans for a considerable time.

And at the same time that he sent thus to him, he appeared

openly to exhort those that were obstinate to accept of Titus's

hand for their security; but they seemed very angry at it,

and brandished their naked swords upon the breast-works,

and struck themselves upon their breasts, and fell down as if

they had been slain. Hereupon Titus and those with him

were amazed at the courage of the men; and as they were

not able to see exactly what was done, they admired at their

great fortitude, and pitied their calamity. During this in­

terval a certain person shot a dart at Castor, and wounded

him in his nose, whereupon he presently pulled out the dart,

and showed it to Titus, and complained that this was unfair

treatment: so Caesar reproved him that shot the dart, and

sent Josephus, who then stood by him, to give his right hand

to Castor. But Josephus said that he would not go to him,

because these pretended petitioners meant nothing that was

good ; he also restrained those friends of his who were zealous

to go to him. But still there was one JEneas, a deserter,

who said he would go to him. Castor also called to them,

that somebody should come and receive the money which he

had with him ; this made JEneas the more earnestly to run

to him, with his bosom open. Then did Castor take up a

great stone, and threw it at him, which missed him, because

he guarded himself against it, but still it wounded another

soldier that was coming to him. When Cicsar understood

