160 SEDITIONS AT JERUSALEM. [B. V.

ally one upon another, although the deep consternation they

were in prevented their outward wailing; but being constrained

by their fear to conceal their inward passions, they were in­

wardly tormented, without daring to open their lips in groans.

Nor was any regard paid to those that were still alive by

their relations: nor was there any care taken of burial for

those that were dead : the occasion of both which was this,

that every one despaired of himself; for those that were not

among the seditious had no great desires of any thing, as ex­

pecting for certain that they should very soon be destroyed;

but for the seditious themselves, they fought against each

other while they trode upon the dead bodies as they lay

heaped one upon another, and, taking up a mad rage from

those dead bodies that were under their feet, became the

fiercer thereupon. They, moreover, were still inventing some­

what or other that was pernicious against themselves; and

when they had resolved upon any thing, they executed it

without mercy, and omitted no method of torment or barbarity.

Nay, John abused the sacred materials,1 and employed them

in the construction of his engines of war; for the people and

the priests had formerly determined to support the temple,

and raise the holy house twenty cubits higher; for king

Agrippa had, at a very great expense and with very great

pains, brought thither such materials as were proper for that

purpose, being pieces of timber very well worth seeing, both

for their straightness and their largeness ; but the war coming

on, and interrupting the work, John had them cut, and pre­

pared for the building him towers, he finding them long

enough to oppose from them those his adversaries that fought

him from the temple that was above him. He also had them

brought and erected behind the inner court, over against the

west end of the cloisters, where alone' he could erect them;

1 This timber, we see, was designed for the rebuilding those twenty addi­

tional cubits of the holy house above the hundred which had fallen down

some years before. See the note on Antiq. B. xv. ch. xi. sect. 3.

1 There being no gate on the west, and only on the west side of the court

of the priests, and so no steps there, this was the only side that the
seditious,

under this John of Gischala, could bring their engines close to the cloisters

of that court endways, though upon the floor of the court of Israel. See the

scheme of that temple in the description of the temples hereto belonging.

