0. IV.] COME TO JERUSALEM. 10]

to call in the Idumeans; so they wrote a bhfrrt" letter to this

effect, that "Ananus had imposed on the people,, and was

betraying their metropolis to the Romans; that they them­

selves had revolted from the rest, and were in custody in the

temple, on account of the preservation of their liberty: .that

there was but a small time left wherein they might hope for

their deliverance; and that unless they would come iou-"

mediately to their assistance, they should themselves be soosr"

in the power of Ananus, and the city would bo in the power

of the Romans." They also charged the messengers to tell

many more circumstances to the rulers of the Idumeans.

Now there were two active men proposed for the carrying

this message, and such as were well able to speak, and to

persuade them that things were in this posture; and, what

was a qualification still more necessary than the former, they

were very swift of foot; for they knew well enough that

these would immediately comply with their desires, as being

ever a tumultuous and disorderly nation, always on the watch

upon every motion, delighting in mutations; and upon your

flattering them ever so little, and petitioning them, they soon

take their arms, and put themselves into motion, and make

haste to a battle, as if it were to a feast. There was, indeed,

occasion for quick dispatch in the carrying of this message,

in which point the messengers were no way defective. Both

their names were Ananias; and they soon came to the rulers

of the Idumeans.

2. Now these rulers were greatly surprised at the contents

of the letter, and at what those that came with it further told

them ; whereupon they ran about the nation like madmen,

and made proclamation that the people should come to war;

so a multitude was suddenly gotten together, sooner, indeed,

than the time appointed in the proclamation, and every body

caught up their arms, in order to maintain the liberty of

their metropolis ; and twenty thousand of them were put into

battle-array, and came to Jerusalem under four commanders,

John, and Jacob the son of Sosas; and besides these were

Simon the son of Cathlas, and Phincas the son of Clusothus.

3. Now this exit of the messengers was not known either

9*

