C n.] SURRENDER OF GISCHALA. 83

thither. It was also naturally strong, and the walls that

were built round it made him not a little concerned about it.

Moreover, he esteemed the men that were in it to be so coura­

geous and bold, that even without the consideration of the

walls, it would bo hard to subdue them; for which reason he

took care of and exercised his soldiers beforehand for the

work, as they do wrestlers before they begin their under­

taking.

2. Now Titus, as he rode up to Gischala, found it would

be easy for him to take the city upon the first onset; but

knew withal, that if he took it by force, the multitude would

be destroyed by the soldiers without mercy. (Now he was

already satiated with the shedding of blood, and pitied the

major part, who would then perish without distinction, toge­

ther with the guilty.) So he was rather desirous the city

might be surrendered up to him on terms. Accordingly,

when he saw the wall full of those men that were of the cor­

rupted party, he said to them, that "he could not but wonder

what it was they depended on, when they alone stayed to

fight the Romans, after every other city was taken by them,

especially when they have seen cities much better fortified

than theirs is overthrown by a single attack upon them ; while

as many as have intrusted themselves to the security of the

Romans' right hands, which he now offers to them, without

regarding their former insolence, do enjoy their own posses­

sions in safety: for that while they had hopes of recovering

their liberty, they might be pardoned; but that their con­

tinuance still in their opposition, when they saw that to be

impossible, was inexcusable : for that if they will not comply

with such humane offers, and right hands for security, they

should have experience of such a war as would spare nobody,

and should soon be made sensible that their wall would be

but a trifle when battered by the Roman machines; in de­

pending on which they demonstrate themselves to be the

only Galileans that were no better than arrogant slaves and

captives."

3. Now none of the populace durst not only make a reply,

but durst not so much as get upon the wall, for it was all

