460 JOSEPIIUS'S DISCOURSE ABOUT HADES.

able by men, and it will not be impossible to discover tho

way of ascending thither. The earth will not be unculti­

vated, nor require too much labor of men, but will bring

forth its fruits of its own accord, and will be well adorned

with them. There will be no more generations of wild beasts,

nor will the substance of the rest of the animals shoot out

any more; for it will not produce men; but the number of

the righteous will continue, and never fail, together with

righteous angels and spirits [of God,] and with his word, as

a choir of righteous men and women that never grow old,

and continue in an incorruptible state, singing hymns to God,

who hath advanced them to that happiness, by the means of

a regular institution of life; with whom the whole creation

also will lift up a perpetual hymn from corruption to incor-

ruption, as glorified by a splendid and a pure spirit. It will

not then be restrained by a bond of necessity, but with a

lively freedom shall offer up a voluntary hymn, and shall

praise him that made them, together with the angels, and

spirits, and men, now freed from all bondage.

7. And now if you Gentiles will be persuaded by theso

motives, and leave your vain imaginations about your pedi­

grees, and gaining of riches, and philosophy, and will not

spend your time about subtilities of words, and thereby lead

your minds into error, and if you will apply your ears to tho

hearing of the inspired prophets, the interpreters both of

God and of his word, and will believe in God, you shall both

be partakers of these things, and obtain the good things that

are to come: you shall see the ascent unto the immense

heaven plainly, and that kingdom which is there. For what

God hath now concealed in silence [will be then made mani­

fest], what neither eye hath seen, nor ear hath heard, nor

hath it entered into the heart of man the things that God

hath prepared for them that love him.

8. In whatsoever ways I shall find you, in them shall 1

judge you entirely ; so cries the end of all things. And he

who hath at first lived a virtuous life, but towards the latter

end falls into vice, these labors by him before endured shall

be altogether vain and unprofitable, even as in a play brought

