158 SEDITIONS AT JERUSALEM. [ii. V.

country, and those of profane persons with those of the

priests, and the blood of all sorts of dead carcasses stood in

lakes In the holy courts themselves. And now, " O most

wretched city, what misery so great as this didst thou suffer

from- the Romans, when they came to purify thee from thy

intestine hatred ? For thou couldest be no longer a place fit

for God, nor couldest thou long continue in being, after thou

hadst been a sepulehre for the bodies of thine own people,

and hadst made the holy house itself a burying-place in this

civil war of thine. Yet' mayest thou again grow better, if

perchance thou wilt hereafter appease the anger of that God

who is the author of thy destruction." But I must restrain

myself from these passions by the rules of history, since this

is not a proper time for domestical lamentations, but for his足

torical narrations: I, therefore, return to the operations that

follow in this sedition.

4. And now there were three treacherous factions in tho

city, the one parted from the other. Eleazar and his party,

that kept the sacred first-fruits, came against John in their

cups. Those that were with John plundered the populace,

and went out with zeal against Simon. This Simon had his

supply of provisions from the city in opposition to the sedi足

tious. When, therefore, John was assaulted on both sides,

he made his men turn about, throwing his darts upon those

citizens that came up against him, from the cloisters he had

in his possession, while he opposed those that attacked him

from the temple by his engines of war. And if at any time

he was freed from those that were above him, which happened

frequently, from their being drunk and tired, he sallied out

with a great number upon Simon and his party; and this he

did always in such parts of the city as he could come at, till

1 This is an excellent reflection of Josephus, including liis hopes of the re足

storation of the Jews upon their repentance. See Antiq. Ii. iv. ch. vii. sect,

46, which is the grand Hope of Israel, as Manasseh-ben-Israel, the famous

Jewish rabbi, stales it, in his small but remarkable treatise on that subject,

of which the Jewish prophets are every where full. Sco the principal of

those prophecies collected together at the end of the Essay on the Revela足

tion, page Vl2. &c.

