230 GREAT SLAUGHTERS [B. V.

3. In the mean time Josephus, as ho was going round the

city, had his head wounded by a stone that was thrown at

him, upon which he fell down as giddy; upon which fall of

his the Jews made a sally, and he had been hurried into the

city, if Caesar had not sent men to protect him immediately;

and as these men were fighting, Josephus was taken up, though

he heard little of what was done. So the seditious supposed

they had now slain that man whom they were the most de­

sirous of killing, and made thereupon a great noise in way

of rejoicing. This accident was told in the city; and the

multitude that remained became very disconsolate at the news,

as being persuaded that he was really dead, on whose account

alone they could venture to desert to the Romans. But when

Josephus's mother heard in prison that her son was dead, she

said to those that watched about her, that " she had always

been of opinion, since the siege of Jotapata, [that he would

be slain,] and she should never enjoy him alive any more."

She also made great lamentation privately to the maid ser­

vants that were about her, and said,—" This was all the ad­

vantage she had of bringing so extraordinary a person as

this son into the world, that she should not be able even to

bury that son of hers, by whom she expected to have been

buried herself." However, this false report did not put his

mother to pain, nor afford merriment to the robbers long,

for Josephus soon recovered of his wound, and came out, and

cried out aloud,—" That it would not be long ere they should

be punished for this wound they had given him." He also

made a fresh exhortation to the people to come out upon the

security that would be given them. This sight of Josephus

encouraged the people greatly, and brought a great conster­

nation upon the seditious.

4. Hereupon some of the deserters, having no other way,

leaped down from the wall immediately, while others of them

went out of the city with stones, as if they would fight them;

but thereupon they fled away to the Romans. But hero a

worse fate accompanied these than what they had found with­

in the city; and they met with a quicker dispatch from the

too great abundance they had among the Romans than they

