240 TITUS ADDRESSES [B. VI.

ill successes ; for it is unbecoming you, who are Romans and

my soldiers, who have in peace been taught how to make wars,

and who have also been used to conquer in those wars, to be

inferior to Jews either in action of the hand or in courage of

the soul, and this especially when you are at the conclusion

of your victory, and are assisted by God himself; for as to

our misfortunes, they have been owing to the madness of the

Jews, while their sufferings have been owing to your valor,

and to the assistances God hath afforded you; for as to the

seditions they have been in, and the famine they are under,

and the siege they now endure, and the fall of their walls

without our engines, what can they all be but demonstrations

of God's anger against them, and of his assistance afforded

us ? It will not, therefore, be proper for you either to show

yourselves inferior to those to whom you are really superior,

or to betray that divine assistance which is afforded you. And,

indeed, how can it be esteemed otherwise than a base and

unworthy thing, that while the Jews, who need not be much

ashamed if they be deserted, because they have long learned

to be slaves to others, do yet despise death, that they be so

no longer; and do make sallies into the very midst of us fre­

quently, not in hopes of conquering us, but merely for a de­

monstration of their courage ; we, who have gotten possession

of almost all the world that belongs to either land or sea, to

whom it will be a great shame if we do not conquer them, do

not once undertake any attempt against our enemies wherein

there is much, danger, but sit still idle, with such brave arms

as we have, and only wait till the famine and fortune do our

business themselves, and this when we have it in our power,

with some small hazard, to gain all that we desire: for, if we

go up to this tower of Antonia, we gain the city; for if thero

should be any more occasion for fighting against those within

the city, which I do not suppose there will, sinco we shall

then be upon the top of the hill,1 and be upon our enemies

■Belaud notes here, Tory pertinently, that the tower of Antor.ni stood

higher than the floor of the temple, or court adjoining to it; and that,
accord­

ingly, they descended thence into the temp'.e, as Josephus elsewhere speaks

also. Sec B. vi. ch. ii. sect. 0.

