B. II.] AGAINST APION. 415

dom, that he might obtain it for himself unjustly.1 For this

cause, then, it was that Onias undertook a war against him

on Cleopatra's account; nor would he desert that trust the

royal family had reposed in him in their distress. Accord­

ingly, God gave a remarkable attestation to his righteous pro­

cedure; for when Ptolemy Physco2 had the presumption to

fight against Onias's army, and had caught all the Jews that

were in the city [Alexandria,] with their children and wives,

and exposed them naked and in bonds to his elephants, that

they might be trodden upon and destroyed; and when he had

made those elephants drunk for that purpose, the event proved

contrary to his preparations ; for these elephants left the Jews

who were exposed to them, and fell violently upon Physco's

friends, and slew a great number of them: nay, after this,

Ptolemy saw a terrible ghost, which prohibited his hurting

those men: his very concubine whom he loved so well, some

call her Ithaca, and others Irene, making supplications to

him, that he would not perpetrate so great a wickedness. So

he complied with her request, and repented of what he either

had already done or was about to do; whence it is well known

that the Alexandrian Jews do with good reason celebrate this

day, on the account that they had thereon been vouchsafed

such an evident deliverance from God. However, Apion, the

common calumniator of men, hath the presumption to accuse

the Jews for making this war against Physco, when he ought

to have commended them for the same. This man also makes

mention of Cleopatra the last queen of Alexandria, and abuses

us, because she was ungrateful to us; whereas he ought to

have reproved her, who indulged herself in all kinds of injus­

tice and wicked practices, both with regard to her nearest re­

lations and husbands who had loved her, and, indeed, in gen­

1 Here begins a gre.it defect in the Greek copy; but the old Latin version

fully supplies that defect.

* What error is here generally believed to have been committed by our Jo-  
sephus in ascribing a deliverance of the Jews to the reign of Ptolemy Physco,

tho seventh of thoso Ptolemies, which has been universally supposed to have

happened under Ptolemy Philopator, the fourth of them, is no better than a

gross error of tho moderns, and not of Josephus, as I have fully proved in

tho Authent. Rec. Tart i. p. liOO-20 J, whither I refer the inquisitive
reader.

