DISSERTATION III. 509

inexcusable. The two only other writers whom we know of,

whence such Jewish affairs might be supposed to be taken by

Tacitus, who never appears to have been in Judca himself,

are Justus of Tiberias, a Jewish historian, contemporary

with Josephus, and one Antonius Julianus, once mentioned

by Minutius Felix in his Octavius, sect. 33, as having written

on the same subject with Josephus, and both already men­

tioned by me on another occasion, Dissert. I. As to Justus

of Tiberias, he could not be the historian whence Tacitus

took his Jewish affairs, because, as we have seen, in the place

just cited, the principal passage in Tacitus of that nature,

concerning Christ, and his sufferings under the emperor

Tiberius, and by his procurator Pontius Pilate, was not there

as we know from the testimony of Photius, Cod. xxx. And

as to Antonius Julianus, his very name shows him to have

been not a Jew but a Roman. He is never mentioned by

Josephus, and so probably knew no more of the country or

affairs of Judea than Tacitus himself. He was, I suppose,

rather an epitomiser of Josephus, and not so early as Tacitus,

than an original historian himself before him. Nor could so

exact a writer as Tacitus ever take up with such poor and

almost unknown historians as these were, while Josephus's

seven books of the Jewish war were then so common; were

in such great reputation at Rome; were attested to, and

recommended by Vespasian and Titus the emperors, by king

Agrippa, and king Archelaus, and Herod, king of Chaleis;

and he was there honored with a statue: and these his books

were reposited at the public library at Rome, as we know

from Josephus himself, from Eusebius, and Jerom, while wo

never hear of any other history of the Jews that had then

and there any such attestations or recommendations. Some

things, indeed, Tacitus might take from the Roman records

of this war, I mean from the Commentaries of Vespasian,

which are mentioned by Josephus himself, in his own Life,

sect. Go, vol. i., and some others from the relations of Roman

people, where the affairs of Rome were concerned; as also

other affairs might be remembered by old officers and soldiers

that had been in the Jewish war. Accordingly, I still supposo

43 *

