C. VIII.] VESPASIAN. 53

he were ready to smite him; but he called to one of them by

name, and looking like a general to another, and taking a

third by the hand, and making a fourth ashamed of himself,

by praying him to forbear, and being in this condition dis­

tracted with various passions (as he well might in the great

distress he was then in,) he kept off every one of their swords

from killing him, and was forced to do like such wild beasts

as arc encompassed about on every side, who always turn

themselves against those that last touched them. Nay, somo

of their right hands were debilitated by the reverence they

bare to their general in these his fatal calamities, and their

swords dropped out of their hands, and not a few of them

there were who, when they aimed to smite him with their

swords, they were not thoroughly cither willing or able to

do it.

7. However, in this extreme distress, he was not destitute

of his usual sagacity; but trusting himself to the providence

of God, he put his life into hazard [in the manner following.]

"And now," said he, "since it is resolved among you that

you will die, come on, let us commit our mutual deaths to

determination by lot. He whom the lot falls to first, let him

be killed by him that hath the second lot, and thus fortune

shall make its progress through us all; nor shall any of us

perish by his own right hand; for it would be unfair, if, when

the rest are gone, somebody should repent and save himself."

This proposal appeared to them to be very just; and when

he had prevailed with them to determine this matter by lots,

he drew one of the lots for himself also. He who had the

first lot laid his neck bare to him that had the next, as sup­

posing that the general would die among them immediately;

for they thought death, if Josephus might but die with them,

sweeter than life: yet was he with another left to the last,

whether we must say it happened so by chance, or whether

by the providence of God. And as he was very desirous,

neither to be condemned by the lot, nor, if he had been left

to the last, to imbrue his right hand in the blood of his coun­

trymen, he persuaded him to trust his fidelity to him, and to

live as well as himself.

5*

