54 VESPASIAN. [B. III.

8. Thus Josephus escaped in the war with the Romans and

in this his own war with his friends, and was led by Nicanor

to Vespasian. But now all the Romans ran together to see

him; and as the multitude pressed one upon another about

their general, there was a tumult of a various kind; while

some rejoiced that Josephus was taken, and some threatened

him, and some crowded to see him very near; but those that

were more remote cried out to have this their enemy put to

death, while those that were near called to mind the actions

he had done, and a deep concern appeared at the change of

his fortune. Nor was there any of the Roman commanders,

how much soever they had been enraged at him before, but

relented when he came to the sight of him. Above all the

rest, Titus's own valor, and Josephus's own patience under

his afflictions, made him pity him, as did also the commisera足

tion of his age, when he recalled to mind that but a little

while ago he was fighting, but lay now in the hands of his

enemies, which made him consider the power of fortune, and

how quick is the turn of affairs in war, and how no state of

men is sure: for which reason he then made a great many

more to be of the same pitiful temper with himself, and

induced them to commiserate Josephus. He was also of

great weight in persuading his father to preserve him. How足

ever, Vespasian gave strict orders that he should be kept

with great caution, as though he would, in a very little time,

send him to Nero.

9. When Josephus heard him give these orders, he said

that he had somewhat in his mind that he would willingly say

to himself alone. When, therefore, they were all ordered to

withdraw, excepting Titus and two of their friends, he said:

" Thou, O Vespasian, thinkest no more than that thou hast

taken Josephus himself captive; but I am come to thee as a

messenger of greater tidings; for had not I been sent by

God to thee, I knew what was the law1 of the Jews in this

1 I do not know where to find the law of Moses here mentioned by Jose足

phus, and aftorward by Elcazar, B. vii. ch. viii. sect. 7; and almost implied

in B. i. ch. xiii. sect. 10, by Josephus's commendation of Phasaelus for doing

bo; I mean whereby Jewish generals and people were obliged to kill them足

