94 THE HIGH-PRIEST ANANUS. [B. IV.

your minds withal ? Perhaps you wait for the Romans, that

they may protect our holy places: Are our matters then

brought to that pass ? and are we come to that degree of

misery, that our enemies themselves are expected to pity us ?

O wretched creatures! will not you rise up, and turn upon

those that strike you ? which you may observe in wild beasts

themselves, that they will avenge themselves on those that

strike them. Will not you call to mind every one of you the

calamities you yourselves have suffered ? nor lay before your

eyes what afflictions you yourselves have undergone? And

will not such things sharpen your souls to revenge ? Is, there­

fore, that most honorable and most natural of our passions

utterly lost, I mean the desire of liberty ? Truly we are in

love with slavery, and in love with those that lord it over us,

as if we had received that principle of subjection from our

ancestors; yet did they undergo many and great wars for

the sake of liberty; nor were they so far overcome by the

power of the Egyptians or the Modes, but that still they did

what they thought fit, notwithstanding their commands to

the contrary. And what occasion is there now for a war

with the Romans ? (I meddle not with determining whether it

be an advantageous and profitable war or not:) What pre­

tence is there for it ? Is it not that we may enjoy our liberty ?

Besides, shall we not bear the lords of the habitable earth to

be lords over us, and yet bear tyrants of our own country ?

although I must say that submission to foreigners may be

borne, because fortune hath already doomed us to it, while

submission to wicked people of our own nation is too unmanly,

and brought upon us by our own consent. However, since

1 have had occasion to mention the Romans, I will not con­

ceal a thing that, as I aui speaking, comes into my mind, and

affects me considerably; it is this, that though we should be

taken by them (God forbid the event should be so,) yet can

we undergo nothing that will be harder to be borne than what

these men have already brought upon us. How then can we

avoid shedding of tears, when wo see the Roman donations

in our temple, while we withal see those of our own natioD

taking our own spoils and plundering our glorious metropolis.

