C. III.] TERRIBLE FAMINE. 261

life. Nor would men believe that those who were dying had

no food, but the robbers would search them when they were

expiring, lest any one should have concealed food in their

bosoms, and counterfeited dying: nay, these robbers gaped

for want, and ran about stumbling and staggering along like

mad dogs, and reeling against the doors of the houses like

drunken men ; they would also, in the great distress they

were in, rush into the very same houses two or three times in

one and the same day. Moreover, their hunger was so in­

tolerable, that it obliged them to chew every thing, while they

gathered such things as the most sordid animals would not

touch, and endured to eat them; nor did they, at length, ab­

stain from girdles and shoes, and the very leather which be­

longed to their shields they pulled off and gnawed: the very

wisps of old hay became food to some, and some gathered up

fibres, and sold a very small weight of them for four Attic

[drachmae.] But why do I describe the shameless impudence

that the famine brought on men in their eating inanimate

things ? while I am going to relate a matter of fact, the like

to which no history relates,1 either among the Greeks or bar­

barians. It is horrible to speak of it, and incredible when

heard. I had, indeed, willingly omitted this calamity of ours,

that I might not seem to deliver what is so portentous to

posterity, but that I have innumerable witnesses to it in my

1 What Josephus observes here, that no parallel examples had been re­

corded before this time of such sieges, wherein mothers were forced by

extremity of famine to cat their own children, as had been threatened to the

Jews, in the law of Moses, upon obstinate disobedience, and more than once

fulfilled (see my Boyle's Lectures, p. 210-214,) is by Dr. Hudson supposed

to have had two or three parallel examples in later ages. Ho might have

had more examples, I suppose, of persons on shipboard, or in a desert island,

casting lots for each other's bodies. But all this was only in cases where

they knew of no possible way to avoid death themselves but by killing and

eating others. Whether such examples come up to the present case may bo

doubted. The Romans were not only willing but very desirous to grant

those Jews in Jerusalem both their lives and their liberties, and to Eave both

their city and their temple. But the zealots, the robbers, and the seditious,

would hearken to no terms of submission. They voluntarily chose to reduce

the citizens to that extremity, ns to force mothers to this unnatural
barbarity,

which in all its circumstances has not, 1 still suppose, been hitherto
paralleled

»mong the rest of mankind.

