114 CRUELTY OF [b. IV.

as they intended to have Zacharias,1 the son of Baruch, ono

of the most eminent of the citizens, slain; so what provoked

them against him was that hatred of wickedness and love of

liberty which were so eminent in him: he was also a rich

man, so that by taking him off, they did not only hope to

seize his effects, but also to get rid of a man that had great

power to destroy them. So they called together, by a public

proclamation, seventy of the principal men of the populace,

for a show, as if they were real judges, while they had no

proper authority. Before these was Zacharias accused of a

design to betray their polity to the Romans, and had traitor足

ously sent to Vespasian for that purpose. Now there ap足

peared no proof or sign of what he was accused, but they

affirmed themselves, that they were well persuaded that so it

was, and desired that such their affirmation might be taken

for sufficient evidence. Now when Zacharias plainly saw

that there was no way remaining for his escape from them,

as having been treacherously called before them, and then

put in prison, but not with any intention of a legal trial, he

took great liberty of speech in that despair of his life he was

under. Accordingly, he stood up, and laughed at their pre足

1 Some commentators are ready to suppose, that this Zacharias the son of

Baruch, hero most unjustly slain by the Jews in the temple, was the very

same person with Zacharias the son of Burachias, whom our Savior says the

Jews slew between the temple and the altar. Matt, xxiii. 35. This is n some足

what strange exposition ; since Zi-chariah the prophet was really the son of

Barachia and grandson of Iddo, Zech. i. 1, and how he died, we have no other

account than that before us in St. Matthew, while this Zacharia was the son

of Baruch; since the slaughter was past when our Savior spoke those words,

the Jews had then already slain him; whereas this slaughter of Zacharias

the son of Baruch, in Josephus, was then about 34 years future; and since

that slaughter was between the temple and the altar, in the court of the
priests,

one of tho most sacred and remote parts of the whole temple, while this

was, in Josephus's own words, in the middle of the temple, nnd much the

most probably in the court of Israel only (for we have had no intimation

that the zealots had at this time profaned the court of the priests. See B.

v. ch. i. sect. 2.) Nor do I believe that our Josephus, who always insists on

the peculiar sacredness of that inmost court, and of the holy house that was

in it, would have omitted so material an aggravation of this barharous

murder, as perpetrated in a place so very holy, had that been the true place

of it. Sec Anticl. B xi. ch. vii. 6cct. 1, and the note here on B. v. ch. i.

sect '1.

