106 THE IDUMEANS [b. IV.

with the Romans, it is in your power to watch the passages

into the city; antf in case any thing that we have been ac­

cused of is brought to light, then to come and defend your

metropolis, and to inflict punishment on those that are found

guilty; for the enemy cannot prevent you, who are now so

near to the city. But if, after all, none of these proposals

seem acceptable and moderate, do not you wonder that the

gates are shut against you, while you bear your arms about

you."

4. Thus spake Jesus : yet did not the multitude of the

Idumeans give any attention to what he said, but were in a

rage, because they did not meet with a ready entrance into

the city. The generals also had indignation at the offer of

laying down their arms, and looked upon it as equal to a

captivity to throw them away at any man's injunction whom­

soever. But Simon the son of Cathlas, one of their com­

manders, with much ado quieted the tumult of his own men,

and stood so that the high-priests might hear him, and said

as follows : — "I can no longer wonder that the patrons of

liberty arc under custody in the temple, since there are those

that shut the gates of our common city' to their own nation,

and at the same time are prepared to admit the Romans into

it; nay, perhaps, are disposed to crown the gates with gar­

lands at their coming, while they speak to the Idumeans from

their towers, and enjoin them to throw down their arms which

they have taken up for the preservation of its liberty: and

while they will not intrust the guard of our metropolis to

their kindred, profess to make them judges of the differences

that are among them ; nay, while they accuse some men of

having slain others without a legal trial, they do themselves

condemn a whole nation after an ignominious manner; and

have now walled up that city from their own nation, which

1 This appellation of Jerusalem given it here by Simon, the general of the

Idumeans, The common city of the Idumeans, who were proselytes of justice,

as well as of the original native Jews, greatly confirms that maxim of the

rabbins, here set down by Rclund, that Jerusahm was not assigned or appro-

prialrd to the tribe of Benjamin or Judah, but every tribe had equal right to
it

[at their coming to worship there at the several festivals.] Sec a little be­

fore, ch. iii. sect. 3.

