C. III.] DANGER OF THE JEWS AT ANTIOCU. 303

upon the theatre at a time when the people of Antioch were

assembled together, and became an informer against his father,

and accused both him and others that they had resolved to

burn the whole city in one night; he also delivered up to

them some Jews that were foreigners, as partners in their

resolutions. When the people heard this, they could not

refrain their passion, but commanded that those who were

delivered up to them should have fire brought to burn them,

who were accordingly all burnt upon the theatre immediately.

They did also fall violently upon the multitude of the Jews,

as supposing that, by punishing them suddenly, they should

save their own city. As for Antiochus, he aggravated the

rage they were in, and thought to give them a demonstration

of his own conversion, and of his hatred of the Jewish customs,

by sacrificing after the manner of the Greeks; he persuaded

the rest also to compel them to do the same, because they

would by that means discover who they were that had plotted

against them, since they would not do so ; and when the peoplo

of Antioch tried the experiment, some few complied, but those

that would not do so were slain. As for Antiochus himself,

he obtained soldiers from the Roman commander, and became

a severe master over his own citizens, not permitting them to

rest on the seventh day, but forcing them to do all that they

usually did on other days ; and to that degree of distress did

he reduce them in this matter, that the rest of the seventh

day was dissolved not only at Antioch, but the same thing

which took thence its rise was done in other cities also, in like

manner, for some small time.

4. Now, after these misfortunes had happened to the Jews

at Antioch, a second calamity befell them, the description of

which when we were going about, we premised the account

foregoing: for upon this accident, whereby tho four-squaro

market-place was burnt down, as well as the archives, and

the place where the public records were preserved, and tho

royal palaces (and it was not without difficulty that the fire

place out of Fuller's Miscellanies. They had the like governor or governors

allowed them at Babylon under their captivity there, as the history of Su­

sanna implies.

