c. vn.] VESPASIAN. 31

water would in no long time be emptied, and that they would

be forced then to deliver up the city to him: but Josephus

being minded to break such his hope, gave command that they

should wet a great many of their clothes, and hang them about

the battlements, till the entire wall was of a sudden all wet

with the running down of the water. At this sight the Ro­

mans were discouraged and under consternation, when they

saw them able to throw away in sport so much water, when

they supposed them not to have enough to drink themselves.

This made the Roman general despair of taking the city by

their want of necessaries, and to betake himself again to arms,

and to try to force them to surrender, which was what the

Jews greatly desired: for as they despaired of either them­

selves or the city's being able to escape, they preferred a death

in battle before one by hunger and thirst.

14. However, Josephus contrived another stratagem besides

the foregoing to get plenty of what they wanted. There

was a certain rough and uneven place that could hardly be

ascended, and on that account was not guarded by the sol­

diers : so Josephus sent out certain persons along the western

parts of the valley, and by them sent letters to whom he

pleased of the Jews that were out of the city, and procured

from them what necessaries soever they wanted in the city in

abundance: he enjoined them also to creep generally along

by the watch, as they came into the city, and to cover their

backs with such sheep-skins as had their wool upon them, that

if any one should spy them out in the night-time, they might

be believed to be dogs. This was done till the watch per­

ceived the contrivance, and encompassed that rough place

about themselves.

15. And now it was that Josephus perceived that the city

could not hold out long, and that his own life would be in

doubt if he continued in it; so he consulted how he and the

most potent men of the city might fly out of it. When the

multitude understood this, they came all round about him,

and begged of him " not to overlook them, while they entirely

depended on him, and him alone; for that there was still

hope of the city's deliverance if he would stay with them, be­

