C. XIII.] AND SACRILEGE. 231

could have done from the famine among the Jews; for when

they came first to the Eomans, they were puffed up by the

famine, and swelled like men in a dropsy: after which they

all on the sudden overfilled those hodies that were before

empty, and so hurst asunder, excepting such only as were

skilful enough to restrain their appetites, and by degrees took

in their food into bodies unaccustomed thereto. Yet did

another plague seize upon those that were thus preserved;

for there was found among the Syrian deserters a certain

person who was caught gathering pieces of gold out of the

excrement of the Jews' bellies; for the deserters used to

swallow such pieces of gold, as we told you before, when they

came out; and for these did the seditious search them all; for

there was a great quantity of gold in the city, insomuch that

as much was now sold [in the Roman camp] for twelve Attic

[drams] as was sold before for twenty-five. But when this

contrivance was discovered in one instance, the fame of it

filled their several camps, that the deserters came to them

full of gold. So the multitude of the Arabians, with the

Syrians, cut up those that came as supplicants, and searched

their bellies. Nor does it seem to me that any misery befell

the Jews that was more terrible than this, since in one night's

time about two thousand of these deserters were thus dis­

sected.

5. When Titus came to the knowledge of this wicked prac­

tice, he had like to have surrounded those that had been

guilty of it with his horse, and have shot them dead; and he

had done it, had not their number been so very great, and

those that were liable to this punishment would have been

manifold more than those whom he had slain. However, he

called together the commanders of the auxiliary troops he had

with him, as well as the commanders of the Roman legions

(for some of his own soldiers had been also guilty herein, as

he had been informed,) and had great indignation against

both sorts of them, and said to them, — "What! have any of

my own soldiers done such things as this out of the uncertain

hope of gain, without regarding their own weapons, which are

made of silver and gold ? Moreover, do the Arabians and

