B. II.] AGAINST APION. 429

ficing whole hecatombs to the gods, and make use of those

sacrifices for feasting; and yet is not the world thereby ren­

dered destitute of cattle, as Apion was afraid would come to

pass. Yet, if all men had followed the manners of the Egyp­

tians, the world had certainly been made desolate as to man­

kind, but had been filled full of the wildest sort -of brute

beasts, which, because they suppose them to bo gods, they

carefully nourish. However, if any one should ask Apion

which of the Egyptians he thinks to be the most wise and

most pious of them all, he would certainly acknowledge the

priests to be so; for the histories say, that two things were

originally committed to their care by their king's injunctions,

the worship of the gods and the support of wisdom and

philosophy. Accordingly, these priests are all circumeised,

and abstain from swine's flesh; nor does any one of the other

Egyptians assist them in slaying those sacrifices they offer to

the gods. Apion was, therefore, quite blinded in his mind,

when for the sake of the Egyptians, he contrived to reproach

us, and to accuse such others as not only make use of that

conduct of life which he so much abuses, but have also taujrht

other men to be circumeised, as says Herodotus, which makes

me think that Apion is hereby justly punished for his casting

such reproaches on the laws of his own country; for he was

circumeised himself of necessity, on account of an uleer in

his privy member; and when he received no benefit by such

circumcision, but his member became putrid, he died in great

torment. Now men of good tempers ought to observe their

own laws concerning religion accurately, and to persevere

therein, but not presently to abuse the laws of other nations,

while this Apion deserted his own laws, and told lies about

ours. And this was the end of Apion's life, and this shall be

the conclusion of our discourse about him.

15. But now, since Apollonius Molo, and Lysimachus, and

some others write treatises about our lawgiver Moses, and

about our laws, which are neither just nor true, and this

partly out of ignorance, but chiefly out of ill will to us, while

they calumniate Moses as an impostor and deceiver, and pre­

tend that our laws teach us wickedness, but nothing is virtu­

