428 FLAVIUSJOSEPHUS [b. n.

However, Apion is ignorant of what every body knows, that

the Egyptians were servants to the Persians, and afterward

to the Macedonians, when they were lords of Asia, and were

no better than slaves, while we have enjoyed liberty formerly;

nay, more than that, have had the dominion of the cities that

lie round about us, and this nearly for a hundred and twenty

years together, until Pompeius Magnus. And when all the

kings every where were conquered by the Romans, our

ancestors were the only people who continued to be esteemed

their confederates and friends, on account of their fidelity

to them.

13. But, says Apion, "we Jews have not had any wonder­

ful men amongst us, nor any inventors of arts, nor any emi­

nent for wisdom." He then enumerates Socrates, and Zeno,

and Cleanthes, and some others of the same sort; and after

all, he adds himself to them, which is the most wonderful

thing of all that he says, and pronounces Alexandria to be

happy, because it hath such a citizen as he is in it; for he

was the fittest man to be a witness to his own deserts, although

he hath appeared to all others no better than a wicked mounte­

bank, of a corrupt life and ill discourses; on which account

one may justly pity Alexandria, if it should value itself upon

such a citizen as he is. But as to our own men, we have had

those who have been as deserving of commendation as any

whosoever; and such as have perused our Antiquities cannot

be ignorant of them.

14. As to the other things which he sets down as blame­

worthy, it may, perhaps, be the best way to let them pass

without apology, that he may be allowed to be his own accuser,

and the accuser of the rest of the Egyptians. However, he

accuses us for sacrificing animals, and for abstaining from

swine's flesh, and laughs at us for the circumeision of our

privy members. Now, as for our slaughter of tame animals

for sacrifices, it is common to us and to all other men; but

this Apion, by making it a crime to sacrifice them, demon­

strates himself to be an Egyptian ; for had he been either a

Grecian or a Macedonian [as he pretends to be] he had not

showed any uneasiness at it; for those people glory in sacri­

