526 DISSERTATION III.

into the city. The Romans then betook themselves to the

siege, for it did not seem honorable to stay till the enemies

were reduced by famine.1 The soldiers were very eager to

expose themselves to dangers, part of them out of true valor,

many out of a brutish fierceness, and others out of a desire

of rewards.

Titus had Rome, and the riches and pleasures of it, before

his eyes, all which seemed to be too long delayed, unless

Jerusalem could be soon destroyed.

The city2 stood on a high elevation, and it had great works

and ramparts to secure it, such indeed as were sufficient for

its fortification, had it been on plain ground ; for there were

two hills, of a vast height, which were enclosed by walls made

crooked by art, or [naturally] bending inwards, that they

might flank the besiegers, and cast darts on them sideways.

The extreme parts of the rock were craggy, and the towers,

when they had the advantage of the ground, were 60 feet

high: when they were built on the plain ground, they were

not built lower than 120 feet: they were of uncommon beauty,

and to those who looked at them at a great distance, they

seemed equal. Other walls there were beneath the royal

palace, besides the tower of Antonia, with its top particularly

conspicuous. It was called so by Herod, in honor of Marcus

Antonius.

Chap. XII.] The temple was like a citadel, having walls

of its own, which had more labor and pains bestowed on them

than the rest. The cloisters wherewith the temple was en­

closed were an excellent fortification.

They had a fountain of water that ran perpetually; and

the mountains were hollowed under ground ; they had more­

over pools3 and cisterns for the preservation of rain-water.

1 Such a deliberation and resolution, with this very reason, that it would

be dishonorable to stay till the Jews were starved out by famine, is in Jose-

phus, Antiq. b. v. ch. xii. sect. 1.

* This description of the city of Jerusalem, its two hills, its three walls,  
and four towers, &c, are in this place at large in Josephus, Antiq. b. v. ch.

iv. See also Pompey's siege, b. xiv. ch. iv. sect. 2.

s Of these pools, seo Josephus, b. v. ch. xi. sect. 4. The cisterns are not

mentioned by him here, though they be mentioned by travellers. See Re-

land's Palestine, torn. i. p. 304.

