498 DISSERTATION II.

He from the Gods this dreadful answer Irought,

O Grecians, when the Trojan shores you sought,

Your passage with a virgin's blood was bought;

So must your safo return be bought again,

And Grecian blood once more atone the main. Dbyden.

These bloody sacrifices were, for certain, instances of the

greatest degree of impiety, tyranny, and cruelty in the world,

that either wicked demons, or wicked men, who neither made

nor preserved mankind, who had therefore no right over them,

nor were they able to make them amends in the next world

for what they thus lost or suffered in this, should, after so in­

human a manner, command the taking away the lives of men,

and particularly of the offerer's own children, without the

commission of any crime. This was, I think, an abomination

derived from him who was 1a murderer from the beginning;

a crime truly and properly diabolical.

5. That, accordingly, Almighty God himself, under the

Jewish dispensation, vehemently condemned the Pagans, and

sometimes the Jews themselves, for this crime; and for this,

among other heinous sins, cast the idolatrous nations (nay,

sometimes the Jews too) out of Palestine. Take the principal

texts thereto relating, as they lie in order in the Old Testament.

"2Thou shalt not let any of thy seed pass through the fire

to Molech. Defile not yourselves in any of these things, for

in all these the nations are defiled, which I cast out before

you," &c.

"3 Whosoever he be of the children of Israel, or of the

strangers that sojourn in Israel, that giveth any of his seed

unto Molech, he shall surely be put to death: the people of

the land shall stone him with stones."

'"Take heed to thyself, that thou be not snared by follow­

ing the nations, after that they be destroyed from before thee;

and that thou inquire not after their gods, saying, How did

these nations serve their gods ? even so will I do likewise.

Thou shalt not do so unto the Lord thy God; for every abomi­

nation of the Lord, which he hateth, have they done untc

1 John viii. 44. * Lev. xviii. 21.

» Lev. xx. 2. « Deut. xiii. 30, 31.

