28 VESPASIAN. [B. III.

8. Vespasian, therefore, in order to try bow he might

overthrow the natural strength of the place, as well as the

bold defence of the Jews, made a resolution to prosecute the

siege with vigor. To that end he called the commanders

that were under him to a council of war, and consulted with

them which way the assault might be managed to the best

advantage. And when the resolution was there taken to raise

a bank against that part of the wall which was practicable,

he sent his whole army abroad to get the materials together.

So when they had cut down all the trees on the mountains

that adjoined to the city, and had gotten together a vast heap

of stones, besides the wood they had cut down, some of them

brought hurdles, in order to avoid the effects of the darts

that were shot from above them. These hurdles they spread

over their banks, under cover whereof they formed their

bank, and so were little or nothing hurt by the darts that

were thrown upon them from the wall, while others pulled

the neighboring hillocks to pieces, and perpetually brought

earth to them; so that while they were busy three sorts of

ways, nobody was idle. However, the Jews cast great stones

from the walls upon the hurdles which protected the men,

with all sorts of darts also; and the noise of what could not

reach them was yet so terrible, that it was some impediment

to the workmen.

9. Vespasian then set the engines for throwing stones and

darts round about the city. The number of the engines was

in all a hundred and sixty, and bid them fall to work, and

dislodge those that were upon the wall. At the same time

such engines as were intended for that purpose threw at once

lances upon them with a great noise; and stones of the weight

of a talent were thrown by the engines that were prepared

for that purpose, together with fire, and a vast multitude of

arrows, which made the wall so dangerous, that the Jews

durst not only not come upon it, but durst not come to those

parts within the wall which were reached by the engines : for

the multitude of the Arabian archers, as well as those also

that threw darts and flung stones, fell to work at the same

time with the engines. Yet did not the others lie still, when

