C. V.] THE SABBATIC RIVER SEEN BY TITUS. 309

CHAPTER V.

CONCERNING THE SABBATIC RIVER WHICH TITUS SAW AS HE

WAS JOURNEYING THROUGH SYRIA; AND HOW THE PEOPLE

OF ANTIOCH CAME WITH A PETITION TO TITUS AGAINST

THE JEWS, BUT WERE REJECTED BY HIM : AS ALSO CON­

CERNING titus's and Vespasian's triumph.

§ 1. Now Titus Cuesar tarried some time at Berytus, as we

told you before. He thence removed, and exhibited magnifi­

cent shows in all those cities of Syria, through which he went,

and made use of the captive Jews as public instances of the

destruction of that nation. He then saw a river as he went

along, of such a nature as deserves to be recorded in history;

it runs in the middle between Arcea, belonging to Agrippa's

kingdom, and Raphanea. It hath somewhat very peculiar in

it; for when it runs, its current is strong, and has plenty of

water, after which its springs fail for six days together, and

leave its channel dry, as any one may see; after which days

it runs on the seventh day as it did before, and as though it

had undergone no change at all: it hath also been observed

to keep this order perpetually and exactly; whence it is that

they call it the Sabbatic river,] that name being taken from

the sacred seventh day among the Jews.

2. But when the people of Antioch were informed that

Titus was approaching, they were so glad at it, that they

could not keep within their walls, but hasted away to give him

the meeting: nay, they proceeded as far as thirty furlongs

and more with that intention. These were not the men only,

1 Since in these lutter ages this Sabbatic river, once so famous, which, by

Josephus's account here, ran every seventh day, and rested on six, but ac­

cording to Pliny, Nat. Hist. xxxi. 11, ran perpetually on six days, and rested

every seventh (though it no way appears by either of their accounts that the

seventh dos/ of this river was the Jewish seventh day or Sabbath,) is quito

vanished, I shall add no more about it; only see Dr. Hudson's note. In

Varenius's Geography, I. 17, tho reader will find several instances of such

periodical fountains and rivers, though none of their periods were that of

just a week, as of old this appears to have been.

