422 FLAVIUS JOSEPH CS [b. II.

reigncr, and fat him thus up every year, and then lead him

to a certain wood, and kill him, and sacrifice with their ac­

customed solemnities, and taste of his entrails, and take an

oath upon this sacrificing a Greek, that they would ever be

at enmity with the Greeks: and that then they threw the re­

maining parts of the miserable wreteh into a certain pit."

Apion adds farther, — " That the man said there were but a

few days to come ere he was to be slain, and implored Antio-

chus that, out of the reverence he bore to the Grecian gods,

he would disappoint the snares the Jews laid for his blood,

and would deliver him from the miseries with which he was

encompassed." Now this is such a most tragical fable, as is

full of nothing but cruelty and impudence; yet does it not

excuse Antiochus of his sacrilegious attempts, as those who

write it in his vindication are willing to suppose : for he could

not presume beforehand that he should meet with any such

thing in coming to the temple, but must have found it unex­

pectedly. He was, therefore, still an impious person, that

was given to unlawful pleasures, and had no regard to God

in his actions. But [as for Apion] he hath done whatever

his extravagant love of lying hath dictated to him, as it is

most easy to discover by a consideration of his writings; for

the difference of our laws is known not to regard the Grecians

only, but they are principally opposite to the Egyptians, and

to some other nations also: for while it so falls out, that men

of all countries come sometimes and sojourn among us, how

comes it about that we take an oath, and conspire only against

the Grecians ? and that by the effusion of their blood also ?

Or how is it possible that all the Jews should get together to

these sacrifices, and the entrails of one man should be suffi­

cient for so many thousands to taste of them, as Apion pre­

tends ? Or why did not the king carry this man, whosoever

he was, and whatsoever was his name (which is not set down

in Apion's book,) with great pomp back into his own country ?

when he might thereby have been esteemed a religious person

himself, and a mighty lover of the Greeks, and might thereby

have procured himself great assistance from all men against

that hatred the Jews bore to him. But I leave this matter;

