224 TITUS WALLS UP THE CITY. [B. V.

than that is reserved for them. However, Titus did not think

it fit for so great an army to lie entirely idle, and that yet it

was in vain to fight with those that would he destroyed one

by another : he also showed them how impracticable it was to

cast up any more banks for want of materials, and to guard

against the Jews' coming still more impracticable; as also,

that to encompass the whole city round with his army was not

very easy, by reason of its magnitude, and the difficulty of

the situation, and on other accounts dangerous upon the sallies

the Jews might make out of the city. For although they

might guard the known passages out of the place, yet would

they, when they found themselves under the greatest distress,

contrive secret passages out, as being well acquainted with

all such places; and if any provisions were carried in by

stealth, the siege would thereby be longer delayed. He also

owned, that he was afraid that the length of time thus to be

epent would diminish the glory of his success: for though it

be true that length of time will perfect every thing, yet that

to do what we do in a little time is still necessary to the gain­

ing reputation: that, therefore, his opinion was, that if they

aimed at quickness, joined with security, they must build a

wall round about the whole city, which was, he thought, the

only way to prevent the Jews from coming out any way, and

that then they would either entirely despair of saving the

city, and so would surrender it up to him, or be still the more

easily conquered, when the famine had farther weakened

them. For that besides this wall he would not lie entirely at

rest afterward, but would take care then to have banks raised

again, when those that would oppose them were become weaker.

But that if any one should think such a work to be too great,

and not to be finished without much difficulty, he ought to

consider that it is not fit for Romans to undertake any small

work; and that none but God himself could with ease ac­

complish any great thing whatsoever.

2. These arguments prevailed with the commanders. So

Titus gave orders that the army should be distributed to their

several shares of this work; and, indeed, there now came

upon the soldiers a certain divine fury, so that they did not

