210 TITUS RESUME6 [B. V.

when the madness of Aristohulus and Hyrcanus, and our

mutual quarrels, brought Pompey upon this city, and when

God reduced those under subjection to the Romans who were

unworthy of the liberty they had enjoyed. After a siege,

therefore, of three months, they were forced to surrender

themselves, although they had not been guilty of such

offences with regard to our sanctuary and our laws as you

have; and this while they had much greater advantages to

go to war than you have. Do not we know what end

Antigonus, the son of Aristobulus, came to, under whose

reign God provided that this city should be taken again upon

account of the people's offences ? When Herod, the son of

Antipater, brought upon us Sosius, and Sosius brought upon

us the Roman army, they were then encompassed and be­

sieged for six months, till, as a punishment for their sins,

they were taken, and the city was plundered by the enemy.

Thus it appears that arms were never given to our nation,

but that we are always given up to be fought against and to

be taken ; for I suppose that such as inhabit this holy place

ought to commit the disposal of all things to God, and then

only to disregard the assistance of men, when they resign

themselves up to their arbitrator who is above. As for you,

what have you done of those things that are recommended

by our legislator ? and what have you not done of those things

that he hath condemned ? How much more impious are you

than those which were so quickly taken ? You have not

avoided so much as those sins that are usually done in secret;

I mean thefts and treacherous plots against men, and adul­

teries. You are quarrelling about rapines and murders, and

invent strange ways of wickedness. Nay, the temple itself

is become the receptacle of all, and this divine place is

polluted by the hands of those of our own country; which

place hath yet been reverenced by the Romans, when it was

at a distance from them, when they have suffered many of

their own customs to give place to our law. And, after all

this, do you expect him whom you have so impiously abused

to be your supporter ? To be sure, then you have a right to

be petitioners, and to call upon him to assist you, so pure are

