DISSERTATION I. 473

to put any indignity upon believers in him, but rather to af­

ford his suffrage to them.

About A. D. 510. Cassiodorus Hist. Tripartit. e Sozo-

tneno.—Now Josephus, the son of Mattathias, and a priest, a

man of great nobility among the Jews, and of great dignity

among the Romans, shall be a truth of Christ's history: for

he dares not call him a man, as a doer of famous works, and

a teacher of true doctrines; he names him Christ openly; and

is not ignorant that he was condemned to the cross, and ap­

peared on the third day alive, and that an infinite number of

other wonderful things were foretold of him by the holy pro­

phets. Moreover, he testifies also, that there were then alive

many whom he had chosen, both Greeks and Jews, and that

they continued to love him; and that the sect which was

named from him was by no means extinct at that time.

About A. D. 640. Chron. Alex. p. 514.—Now Josephus

also relates in the eighteenth book of Antiquities, how John

the Baptist, that holy man, was beheaded on account of

Hcrodias, the wife of Philip, the brother of Herod himself;

for Herod had divorced his former wife, who was still alive,

and had been his lawful wife : she was the daughter of Aretas,

king of the Petreans. When, therefore, Herod had taken

Herodias away from her husband, while he was yet alive (on

whoso account he slew John also,) Aretas made war against

Herod, because bis daughter had been dishonorably treated :

in which war he says, that all Herod's army was destroyed,

and that he suffered that calamity because of the wickedness

he had been guilty of against John. The same Josephus re­

lates, that Herod lost his kingdom on account of Herodias,

and that with her he was banished to Lyons, &c.

P. 526, 527.] — Now that our Savior taught his preaching

three years, is demonstrated both by our necessary reason­

ings, as also out of the holy gospels, and out of Josephus's

writings, who was a wise man among the Hebrews, &c.

P. 584, 586.]—Josephus relates in the fifth book of the

[Jewish] war, that Jerusalem was taken in the third [second]

year of Vespasian, as after forty years since they had dared

to put Jesus to death: in which time he says, that James the

40* '

