C. V.] THE TEMPLE. 187

natural magnanimity. In the first place, the rock itself was

covered over with smooth pieces of stone, from its foundation,

both for ornament, and that any one, who would either try

to get up or to go down it, might not be able to hold his feet

upon it. Next to this, and before you come to the edifice of

the tower itself, there was a wall three cubits high; but with足

in that wall all the space of the tower of Antonia itself was

built upon, to the height of forty cubits. The inward parts

had the largeness and form of a palace, it being parted into

all kinds of rooms and other conveniences, such as courts

and places for bathing, and broad spaces for camps; inso足

much that, by having all conveniencies that cities wanted, it

might seem to be composed of several cities, but by its

magnificence it seemed a palace ; and as the entire structure

resembled that of a tower, it contained also four other dis足

tinct towers at its four corners ; whereof the others were but

fifty cubits high, whereas that which lay upon the south-east

corner was seventy cubits high, that from thence the whole

temple might be viewed: but on the corner where it joined

to the two cloisters of the temple, it had passages down to

them both, through which the guards (for there always lay

in this tower a Roman legion,) went several ways among the

cloisters, with their arms, on the Jewish festivals, in order to

watch the people, that they might not there attempt to make

any innovations; for the temple was a fortress that guarded

the city, as was the tower of Antonia a guard to the temple;

and in that tower were the guards1 of those three. There

was also a peculiar fortress belonging to the upper city, which

was Herod's palace; but for the hill Bezetha, it was divided

from the tower of Antonia, as we have already told you; and

as that hill on which the tower of Antonia stood was the

highest of these three, so did it adjoin to the new city, and

was the only place that hindered the sight of the temple on

the north. And this shall suflice at present to have spoken

about the city, and the walls about it, because I have pur足

posed to myself to make a more accurate description of it

elsewhere.

1 Those three gnards that lay in the tower of Antonia must be those that

guarded the city, the temple, and the tower of Antonia.

