302 DANGER OF THE JEWS AT ANTIOCII. [B. vll.

2. It happened also about this time that the Jews who re­

mained at Antioch were under accusations, and in danger

of perishing, from tho disturbances that were raised against

them by the Antiochians, and this both on account of the

slanders spread abroad at this time against them, and on ac­

count of what pranks they had played not long before, which

I am obliged to describe without fail, though briefly, that I

may the better connect ray narration of future actions with

those that went before.

3. For as the Jewish nation is widely dispersed over all

the habitable earth among its inhabitants, so it is very much

intermingled with Syria, by reason of its neighborhood, and

had the greatest multitudes in Antioch, by reason of the large­

ness of the city, wherein the kings, after Antiochus, had

afforded them a habitation with the most undisturbed tran­

quility ; for though Antiochus, who was called Epiphanes,

laid Jerusalem waste, and spoiled the temple, yet did those

that succeeded him in the kingdom restore all the donations

that were made of brass to the Jews of Antioch, and dedi­

cated them to their synagogue, and granted them the enjoy­

ment of equal privileges of citizens with the Greeks them­

selves ; and as the succeeding kings treated them after the

same manner, they both multiplied to a great number, and

adorned their temple l gloriously by fine ornaments, and with

great magnificence, in the use of what had been given them.

They also made proselytes of a great many of the Greeks

perpetually, and thereby after a sort brought them to Iw a

portion of their own body. But about this time, when the

present war began, and Vespasian was newly sailed to Syria,

and all men had taken up a great hatred against the Jews, then

it was that a certain person whose name was Antiochus, being

one of the Jewish nation, and greatly respected on account

of his father, who was governor2 of the Jews at Antioch. came

1 i. e., their synagogue. See the note on 13. vi. ch. x. sect. 1.

* The Jews at Antioch and Alexandria, the two principal cities in all the  
east, had allowed them, both by the Macedonians, and afterward by the Ro­

mans, a governor of their own, who was exempt from the jurisdiction of the

other civil governors. He was called sometimes barely governor, sometimes

ethnarch, and [at Alexandria] alabarch, as Dr. Hudson takes notice on this

