0. I.] SIEGE OF GAM ALA. 73

into Great Jordan. Now Agrippa had united Sogana and

Seleucia by leagues to himself at the very beginning of the

revolt from the Romans ; yet did not Gamala accede to them,

but relied upon the difficulty of the place, which was greater

than that of Jotapata; for it was situated upon a rough ridge

of a high mountain, with a kind of neck in the middle; where

it begins to ascend it lengthens itself, and declines as much

downward before as behind, insomuch that it is like a camel

in figure, from whence it is so named, although the people of

the country do not pronounce it accurately : both on the side

and the face there are abrupt parts divided from the rest, and

ending in vast deep valleys; yet are the parts behind, where

they are joined to the mountain, somewhat easier of ascent

than the other; but then the people belonging to the place

have cut an oblique ditch there, and made that hard to be

ascended also. On its acclivity, which is straight, houses are

built, and those very thick and close to one another. The

city also hangs so strangely, that it looks as if it would fall

down upon itself, so sharp is it at the top. It is exposed to

the south, and its southern mount, which reaches to an im­

mense height, was in the nature of a citadel to the city; and

above that was a precipice, not walled about, but extending

to an immense depth. There was also a spring of water

within the wall, at the utmost limits of the city.

2. As this city was naturally hard to be taken, so had Jo-

sephus, by building a wall about it, made it still stronger, as

also by ditches and mines underground. The people that

were in it were made more bold by the nature of the place

than the people of Jotapata had been, but it had much fewer

fighting-men in it; and they had such a confidence in the

situation of the place, that they thought the enemy could not

be too many for them ; for the city had been filled with those

that had fled to it for safety on account of its strength; on

which account they had been able to resist those whom

Agrippa sent to besiege it for seven months together.

3. But Vespasian removed from Emmaus, where he had

last pitched his camp before the city Tiberias (now Emmaus,

if it be interpreted, may be rendered A warm bath, for therein

IV. —7

