14 SAMARIA AND JUDEA. [b. HI.

called Ginea, and ends at the Acrabene toparchy, and is en­

tirely of the same nature with Judea; for both countries are

made up of hills and valleys, and are moist enough for agri­

culture, and are very fruitful. They have abundance of

trees, and are full of autumnal fruit, both that which grows

wild and that which is the effect of cultivation. They are

not naturally watered by many rivers, but derive their chief

moisture from rain-water, of which they have no want; and

for those rivers which they have, all their waters arc exceed­

ing sweet: by reason also of the excellent grass they have,

their cattle yield more milk than do those in other places;

and, what is the greatest sign of excellency and of abundance,

they each of them arc very full of people.

5. In the limits of Samaria and Judea lies the village An-

uath, which is also named Borceos. This is the northern

boundary of Judea. The southern parts of Judea, if they be

measured lengthways, are bounded by a village adjoining to

the confines of Arabia; the Jews that dwell there call it Jor­

dan. However, its breadth is extended from the river Jor­

dan to Joppa. The city Jerusalem is situated in the very

middle ; on which account some have, with sagacity enough,

called that city the navel of the country. Nor, indeed, is

Judea destitute of such delights as come from the sea, since

its maritime places extend as far as Ptolemais: it was parted

into eleven portions, of which the royal city Jerusalem was

the supreme, and presided over all the neighboring country,

as the head does over the body. As to the other cities that

were inferior to it, they presided over their several toparchies;

Gophna was the second of those cities, and next to that

Acrabatta; after them Thamna, and Lydda, and Emmaus,

and Pella, and Idumea, and Engaddi, and Herodium, and

Jericho ; and after them came Jamnia and Joppa, as presiding

over the neighboring people : and besides these there was the

region of Gamala, and Gaulanitis, and Batanea, and Tracho-

nitis, which are also parts of the kingdom of Agrippa. This

[last] country begins at Mount Libanus and the fountains of

Jordan, and reaches breadthways to the lake of Tiberias;

and in length is extended from a village called Arpha as

