452 FLAVIUSJOSEPHCS [b. II.

their contempt of matrimony ? And why do not the Eleans

and Thcbans abolish that unnatural and impudent lust, which

makes them lie with males ? For they will not show a suffi­

cient sign of their repentance of what they of old thought to

be very excellent, and very advantageous in their practices,

unless they entirely avoid all such actions for the time to

come: nay, such things are inserted into the body of their

laws, and had once such a power among the Greeks, that they

ascribed these sodomitical practices to the gods themselves as

a part of their good character ; and, indeed, it was according

to the same manner that the gods married their own sisters.

This the Greeks contrived as an apology for their own absurd

and unnatural pleasures.

39. I omit to speak concerning punishments, and how many

ways of escaping them the greatest part of the legislators

have afforded malefactors, by ordaining that, for adulteries,

fines in money should be allowed, and for corrupting [vir­

gins '] they need only marry them :2 as also what excuses

they may have in denying the facts, if any one attempts to

inquire into them; for amongst most other nations it is a

studied art how men may transgress their laws. But no such

thing is permitted amongst us ; for though we be deprived of

our wealth, of our cities, or of the other advantages we have,

our law continues immortal: nor can any Jew go so far from

his own country, nor be so affrighted at the severest lord, as

not to be more affrighted at the law than at him. If, there­

fore, this be the disposition we are under with regard to the

excellency of our laws, let our enemies make us this conces­

sion, that our laws are most excellent; and if still they ima­

gine, that though wc so firmly adhere to them, yet are they

1 Why Joscphus here should blame some heathen legislators when they

allowed so easy a composition for simple fornication, as an obligation to

marry the virgin that was corrupted, is hard to say, seeing he had himself

truly informed us that it was a law of the Jews, Antiq. B. iv. chap. viii.

seet. 23, as it is the law of Christianity also; seo Iloreb Covenant, page CI.

I am almost ready to suspect that for y«/i«(, we should hero read ya/iour, and

that corrupting wedlock, or other men's wives, is the crime for which these

heathens wickedly allowed this composition in money.

2 Or for corrupting other men's wives the same allowance.

