C. VII.] THE TYRANNY OF JOHN. 121

est. These men, therefore, trampled upon all the laws of

men, and laughed at the laws of God; and for the oracles of

the prophets, they ridiculed them as the tricks of jugglers;

yet did these prophets foretell many things concerning [the

rewards of] virtue and [punishments of] vice, which when

these zealots violated, they occasioned the fulfilling of those

very prophecies belonging to their own country : for there was

a certain ancient oracle of those men, that "the city should

then be taken, and the sanctuary burnt, by right of war,

when a sedition should invade the Jews, and their own hands

should pollute the temple of God." ' Now while these zealots

did not [quite] disbelieve these predictions, they made them­

selves the instruments of their accomplishment.

CHAPTER VII.

HOW JOHN TYRANNIZED OVER THE REST; AND WHAT MIS­

CHIEFS THE ZEALOTS DID AT MASADA. HOW ALSO VES­

PASIAN TOOK GADARA ; AND WHAT ACTIONS WERE PER­

FORMED BY PLACIDUS.

§ 1. By this time John was beginning to tyrannize, and

thought it beneath him to accept of barely the same honors

that others had; and joining to himself by degrees a party

of the wickedest of them all, he broke off from the rest of the

faction. This was brought about by his still disagreeing with

1 This prediction, that " the city [of Jerusalem] should then be taken, and

the sanctuary burnt, by right of war, when a sedition should invade the

Jews, and their own hands should pollute that temple:" or, as it is, B. vi.

cb. ii. sect. 1,—" When any one shall begin to slay his countrymen in the

city,'' is wanting in our present copies of the Old Testament. See Essay on

the Old Test. p. 104-112. But this prediction, as Josephus well remarks

heTe, though, with the other predictions of the prophets, it was now laughed

at by the seditious, was by their very means soon exactly fulfilled. How­

ever, I cannot but here take notice of Giotius's positive assertion upon Matt.

xxvi. 9, here quoted by Dr. Hudson, that "it ought to be taken for granted,

as a certain truth, that many predictions of the Jewish prophets were pre­

served not in writing, but by memory." Whereas, it seems to me, so far

from certain, that I think it has no evidence or probability at all.

IV. —11

