282 SPEECH OF TITUS. [B. VI.

in my hands ? And do you still deem it a part of valor to

die ? However, I will not imitate your madness. If you will

throw down your arms, and deliver up your bodies to me, I

grant you your lives; and I will act like a mild master of a

family; what cannot be healed shall be punished, and the

rest I will preserve for my own use."

3. To that offer of Titus they made this reply, that " they

could not accept of it, because they had sworn never to do

so; but they desired they might have leave to go through the

wall that had been made about them, with their wives and

children; for that they would go into the desert, and leave

the city to him." At this Titus had great indignation, that,

when they were in the case of men already taken captives,

they should pretend to make their own terms with him, as if

they had been conquerors. So he ordered this proclamation

to be made to them, that " they should no more come out to

him as deserters, nor hope for any farther security; for that

he would henceforth spare nobody, but fight them with his

whole army ; and that they must save themselves as well as

they could; for that he would from henceforth treat them

according to the laws of war." So he gave orders to the

soldiers both to burn and to plunder the city, who did nothing,

indeed, that day; but on the next day they set fire to tho

repository of the archives, to Acra, to the council-house, and

to the place called Ophlas ; at which time the fire proceeded

as far as the palace of Queen Helena, which was in the

middle of Acra: the lanes also were burnt down, as were

also those houses that were full of the dead bodies of such

as were destroyed by famine.

4. On the same day it was that the sons and brethren of

Izates the king, together with many others of the eminent

men of the populace, got together there, and besought Caesar

to give them his right hand for their security : upon which,

though he were very angry at all that were now remaining,

yet did he not lay aside his old moderation, but received these

men. At that time, indeed, he kept them all in custody, but

still bound the king's sons and kinsmen, and led them with

him to Rome, in order to make them hostages for their coun­

try's fidelity to the Romans.

