368 FLA VIUS JOSEPH US [B. I.

13. Let us now put the case, therefore, that we made use

of this argument concerning the Grecians, in order to prove

that their nation was not ancient, because nothing is said of

them in our records ; would not they laugh at us all, and

probably give the same reasons for our silence that I have

now alleged, and would produce their neighbor nations as

witnesses to their own antiquity? Now, the very same thing

will I endeavor to do ; for I will bring the Egyptians and the

Phoenicians as my principal witnesses, because nobody can

complain of their testimony as false, on account that they

are known to have borne the greatest ill-will towards us: I

mean this as to the Egyptians in general all of them, while

of the Phoenicians it is known the Tyrians have been most

of all in the same ill disposition towards us : yet do I confess,

that I cannot say the same of the Chaldeans, since our first

leaders and ancestors were derived from them, and they do

make mention of us Jews in their records, on account of the

kindred there is between us. Now, when I shall have made

my assertions good, so far as concerns the others, I will de­

monstrate that some of the Greek writers have made mention

of us Jews also, that those who envy us may not have even

this pretence for contradicting what I have said about our

nation.

14. I shall begin with the writings of the Egyptians; not,

indeed, of those that have written in the Egyptian language,

which it is impossible for me to do. But Manctho was a man

who was by birth an Egyptian ; yet had he made himself

master of the Greek learning, as is very evident; for he wrote

the history of his own country in the Greek tongue, by trans­

lating it, as he saith himself, out of their sacred records: he

also finds great fault with Herodotus for his ignorance and

false relation of Egyptian aff;iirs. Now this Manetho, in the

second book of his Egyptian history, writes concerning us in

the following manner. I will set down his very words, as if

I were to bring the very man himself into a court for a wit­

ness—" There was a king of ours whose name was Timaus.

Under him it came to pass, I know not how, that God was

averse to us, and there came after a surprising manner, men

