C. V.] THE TEMPLE. 185

as to those parts of it that were not gilt, they were exceed­

ing white. On its top it had spikes with sharp points, to pre­

vent any pollution of it hy birds sitting upon it. Of its

stones some of them were forty-five cubits in length, five in

height, and six in breadth. Before this temple stood the

altar, fifteen cubits high, and equal both in length and

breadth : each of which dimensions was fifty cubits. The

figure it was built in was a square, and it had corners like

horns, and the passage up to it was by an insensible acclivity.

It was formed without any iron tool, nor did any such iron

tool so much as touch it at any time. There was also a wall

of partition, about a cubit in height, made of fine stones, and

so as to be grateful to the sight; this encompassed the holy

house and the altar, and kept the people that were on the

outside off from the priests. Moreover, those that had the

gonorrhoea and the leprosy were excluded out of the city

entirely: women also, when their courses were upon them,

were shut out of the temple ; nor, when they were free from

that impurity, were they allowed to go beyond the limit

before mentioned: men also, that were not thoroughly pure,

were prohibited to come into the inner [court of the] temple;

nay, the priests themselves that were not pure were pro­

hibited to come into it also.

7. Now all those of the stock of the priests that could not

minister by reason of some defect in their bodies, came with­

in the partition, together with those that had no such im­

perfection, and had their share with them by reason of their

stock, but still made use of none except their own private

garments; for nobody but he that officiated had on his sacred

garments: but then those priests that were without any

blemish upon them went up to the altar clothed in fine linen.

They abstained chiefly from wine out of this fear, lest other­

wise they should transgress some rules of their ministration.

The high-priest did also go up with them ; not always, indeed,

but on the seventh days and new moons, and if any festivals

belonging to our nation, which we celebrate every year,

happened. When he officiated, ho had on a pair of breeches

that reached beneath his privy parts to his thighs, and had

16*

