C. VIII.] VESPASIAN. 49

upon him, would not have sent to him a friend of his own, nor

put the fairest color upon the vilest action, by pretending

friendship and meaning perfidiousness; nor would he have

himself acquiesced, or come to him, had it been to deceive him.

3. Now, as Josephus began to hesitate with himself about

Nicanor's proposal, the soldiery were so angry that they ran

hastily to set fire to the den; but the tribune would not permit

them so to do, as being very desirous to take the man alive.

And now, as Nicanor lay hard at Josephus to comply, and he

understood how the multitude of the enemies threatened him,

he called to mind the dreams which he had dreamed in tho

night-time, whereby .God had signified to him beforehand both

the future calamities of the Jews and the events that concerned

the Roman emperors. Now Josephus was able to give shrewd

conjectures about the interpretation of such dreams as have

been ambiguously delivered by God. Moreover, he was not

unacquainted with the prophecies contained in the sacred

books, as being a priest himself, and of the posterity of priests;

and just then was he in an eestacy, and setting before him

the tremendous images of the dreams he had lately had, he

put up a secret prayer to God, and said, — " Since it pleaseth

thee, who hath created the Jewish nation, to depress the same,

and since all their good fortune is gone over to the Romans,

and since thou hast made choice of this soul of mine to fore­

tell what is to come to pass hereafter, I willingly give thee

my hands, and am content to live. And I protest openly that

I do not go over to the Romans as a deserter of the Jews, but

as a minister from thee."

4. When he had said this, he complied with Nicanor's

invitation. But when those Jews who had fled with him

understood that ho yielded to those that invited him to come

up, they came about him in a body, and cried out, — " Nay,

indeed, now may the laws of our forefathers, which God

ordained himself, well groan to purpose; that God, we mean,

who hath created the souls of the Jews of such a temper

that they despise death. O Josephus ! art thou still fond of

life? and canst thou bear to see the light in a state of

slavery? How soon hast thou forgotten thyself? How

IV.—5

