78 S I E G E 0 F G A M A L A . [B. IV.

troyed, and punish those that have killed them. For myself,

I will endeavor, as I have now done, to go first before you

against your enemies in every engagement, and to be the last

that retires from it."

7. So Vespasian encouraged his army by this speech; but

for the people of Gamala, it happened that they took courage

for a little while upon such great and unaccountable success

as they had had. But when they considered with themselves

that they had now no hopes of any terms of accommodation,

and reflecting upon it that they could not get away, and that

their provisions began already to be short, they were exceed­

ingly cast down, and their courage failed them: yet did they

not neglect what might be for their preservation, so far as

they were able, but the most courageous among them guarded

those parts of the wall that were beaten down, while the more

infirm did the same to the rest of the wall that still remained

round the city. And as the Romans raised their banks, and

attempted to get into the city a second time, a great many

of them fled out of the city through impracticable valleys,

where no guards were placed, as also through subterraneous

caverns; while those that were afraid of being caught, and

for that reason stayed in the city, perished for want of food;

for what food they had was brought together from all quarters,

and reserved for the fighting-men.

8. And these were the hard circumstances the people of

Gamala were in. But now Vespasian went about another

work, by-tho-by, during this siege, and that was to subdue

those that had seized upon Mount Tabor, a place that lies in

the middle between the great plain and Scythopolis, whose

top is elevated as high as thirty furlongs,1 and is hardly to be

1 These numbers in Joscphus of 30 furlongs ascent to the top of Mount

Tabor, whether we estimate it by winding and gradual, or by the perpendi­

cular altitude, and of 26 furlongs in circumference upon the top, as also the

15 furlongs for this ascent to Polybius, with Geminus's perpendicular altitude

of almost 14 furlongs, here noted by Dr. Hudson, do none of them agree with

the authentic testimony of Mr. Maundrel, an eye-witness, p. 112, who says

he was not an hour in getting up to the top of this Mount Tabor, and that

the arca of the top is an oval of about two furlongs in length and one in

breadth. So I rather suppose Joscphus wroto 3 furlongs for the ascent or

altitude, instead of 30; and 6 furbngs for the circumference at the top, in­

