82 SURRENDER OF GISCHi A. [b. IV.

of the month Hyperbereteus [Tisri,] whereas the city had

first revolted on the four and twentieth day of the month

Gorpieus [Elul.]

CHAPTER II.

THE SURRENDER OF GISCHALA, WHILE JOHN FLIES AWAY FROM

IT TO JERUSALEM.

§ 1. Now no place of Galilee remained to be taken but the

small city of Gischala, the inhabitants of which yet were de­

sirous of peace; for they were generally husbandmen, and

always applied themselves to cultivate the fruits of the earth.

However, there were a great number that belonged to a band

of robbers, that were already corrupted, and had crept in

among them, and some of the governing part of the citizens

were sick of the same distemper. It was John, the son of a

certain man whose name was Levi, that drew them into this

rebellion, and encouraged them in it. He was a cunning

knave, and of a temper that could put on various shapes ;

very rash in expecting great things, and very sagacious in

bringing about what he hoped for. It was known to every

body that he was fond of war, in order to thrust himself into

authority: and the seditious part of the people of Gischala

were under his management, by whose means the populace,

who seemed ready to send ambassadors in order to surrender,

waited for the coming of the Romans in battle array. Ves­

pasian sent against them Titus, with a thousand horsemen,

but withdrew the tenth legion to Scythopolis, while he re­

turned to Caesarea with the two other legions, that he might

allow them to refresh themselves after their Ion;? and hard

campaign, thinking withal that the plenty which was in those

cities would improve their bodies and their spirits against the

difficulties they were to go through afterwards; for he saw

there would be occasion for great pains about Jerusalem,

which was not yet taken, because it was the royal city, and

the principal city of the whole nation, and because those that

had run away from the war in other places got all together

