C. VII.] VESPASIAN. 29

they could not throw at the Romans from a higher place;

for they then made sallies out of the city, like private

robbers, by parties, and pulled away the hurdles that covered

the workmen, and killed them when they were thus naked:

and when those workmen gave way, these cast away the earth

that composed the bank, and burnt the wooden parts of it,

together with the hurdles, till at length Vespasian perceived

that the intervals there were between the works were of dis­

advantage to him; for those spaces of ground afforded the

Jews a place for assaulting the Romans. So he united the

hurdles, and at the same time joined one part of the army to

the other, which prevented the private excursions of the Jews.

10. And when the bank was now raised, and brought

nearer than ever to the battlements that belonged to the

walls, Josephus thought it would be entirely wrong in him if

he could make no contrivances in opposition to theirs, and

that might be for the city's preservation : so he got together

his workmen, and ordered them to build the wall higher : and

when they said this was impossible to be done while so many

darts were thrown at them, he invented this sort of cover for

them: he bid them fix piles, and expand before them the raw

hides of oxen, newly killed, that these hides, by yielding and

hollowing themselves when the stones were thrown at them,

might receive them ; for that the other darts would slide off

them, and the fire that was thrown would be quenched by the

moisture that was in them: and these he set before the work­

men ; and under them these workmen went on with their

works in safety, and raised the wall higher, and that both by

day and by night, till it was twenty cubits high. Ho also

built a good number of towers upon the wall, and fitted to it

strong battlements. This greatly discouraged the Romans,

who, in their own opinions, were already gotten within the

walls, while they were now at once astonished at Josephus's

contrivance, and at the fortitude of the citizens that were in

the city.

11. And now Vespasian was plainly irritated at the great

subtilty of this stratagem, and at the boldness of the citizens

of Jotapata; for taking heart again, upon the building of this

3*

