394 FLAVIHS JOSEPHUS [b. t

durst not tell the king of these things; but that he left a

writing behind him about all those matters, and then slew

himself, which made the king disconsolate." After which

he writes thus verbatim: "After those that were sent to work

in the quarries had continued in that miserable state for a

long while, the king was desired that he should set apart the

city of Avaris, which was then left desolate of the shepherds,

for their habitation and protection ; which desire he granted

them. Now this city, according to the ancient theology,

was Typho's city. But when these men were gotten into it,

and found the place fit for a revolt, they appointed them­

selves a ruler out of the priests of Heliopolis, whose name

was Osarsipk, and they took their oaths that they would be

obedient to him in all things. He then, in the first place,

made this law for them, that they should neither worship the

Egyptian gods, nor should abstain from any one of those

sacred animals which they have in the highest esteem, but

kill and destroy them all: that they should join themselves

to nobody but to those that were of this confederacy. When

he had made such laws as these, and many more such as were

mainly opposite to the customs of the Egyptians,1 he gave

order that they should use the multitude of the hands they

had in building walls about their city, and make themselves

ready for a war with king Amenophis, while he did himself

take into his friendship the other priests, and those that

were polluted with them, and send ambassadors to those

shepherds who had been driven out of the land by Tethmosis

to the city called Jerusalem ; whereby he informed them of

his own affairs, and of the state of those others that had

been treated after such an ignominious manner, and desired

that they would come with one consent to his assistance in

this war against Egypt. He also promised that he would,

in the first place, bring them back to their ancient city and

country, Avaris, and provide a plentiful maintenance for

their multitude; that he would protect them and fight for

1 This is a very valuablo testimony of Manctho, that the laws of Osarsiph

or Moses were not nmde in compliance with, but in oppos'tion to, the customs

of the Egyptians. Sic the note on Antiq. B. iii. ch. viii sect. 9.

