402 FLAVIUS JOSEPHUB [B. I.

write the Egyptian history, sets down the same name for this

king that Manetho did, Amenophis, as also of his son Ha­

rnesses, and then goes on thus :—" The goddess Isis appeared

to Amenophis in his sleep, and blamed him that her temple

had been demolished in the war. But that Phritiphantes, the

sacred scribe, said to him, that in case he would purge Egypt

of the men that had pollutions upon them, he should be no

longer troubled -with such frightful apparitions : that Amenc-

phis, accordingly, chose out two hundred and fifty thousand

of those that were thus diseased, and cast them out of the

country: that Moses and Joseph were scribes, and Joseph

was a sacred scribe : that their names were Egyptian origin­

ally ; that of Moses had been Tisithen, and that of Joseph

Petegeph: that these two came to Pelusium, and lighted upon

three hundred and eighty thousand that had been left there

by Amenophis, he not being willing to carry them into Egypt:

that these scribes made a league of friendship with them, and

made with them an expedition against Egypt; that Ameno­

phis could not sustain their attacks, but fled into Ethiopia,

and left his wife with child behind him, who lay concealed in

certain caverns, and there brought forth a son, whose name

was 3Iessene, and who, when he was grown up to man's estate,

pursued the Jews into Syria, being about two hundred thou­

sand men, and then received his father Amenophis out of

Ethiopia."

33. This is the account Cheremon gives us. Now I take

it for granted, that what I have said already hath plainly

proved the falsity of both these narrations: for had there

been any real truth at the bottom, it was impossible that they

should so greatly disagree about the particulars. But for

those that invent lies, what they write will easily give us very

different accounts, while they forge what they please out of

their own heads. Now Manetho says, that the king's desire

of seeing the gods wa? the origin of the ejection of the pol­

luted people; but Chci <)mon feigns that it was a dream of his

own, sent upon him by Isis, that was the occasion of it.

Manetho says, that the person who foreshowed this purgation

of Egypt to the king was Amenophis: but this man says it

