B. I.] AGAINST APION. 399

particular, they might have laid a private plot against him足

self, but would hardly have made war against all the Egyp足

tians ; I mean this on the account of the great kindred they,

who were so numerous, must have had among them. Nay,

still, if they had resolved to fight with the men, they would

not have had impudence enough to fight with their gods; nor

would they have ordained laws quite contrary to those of their

own country, and to those in which they had been bred up

themselves. Yet are we beholden to Manetho, that ho does

not lay the principal charge of this horrid transgression upon

those that came from Jerusalem, but says that the Egyptians

themselves were the most guilty, and that they were their

priests that contrived these things, and made the multitude

take their oaths for doing so. But still, how absurd is it to

suppose that none of these people's own relations or friends

should be prevailed with to revolt, nor to undergo the hazards

of war with them ? while these polluted people were forced to

send to Jerusalem, and bring their auxiliaries from thence.

What friendship, I pray, or what relation was there formerly

between them that required this assistance ? On the contrary,

these people were enemies, and greatly differed from them in

their customs. He says, indeed, that they complied imme足

diately, upon their promising them that they should conquer

Egypt; as if they did not themselves very well know that

country out of which they had been driven by force. Now,

had these men been in want, or lived miserably, perhaps they

might have undertaken so hazardous an enterprise; but as

they dwelt in a happy city, and had a large country, and one

better than Egypt itself, how came it about that for the sake

of those that had of old been their enemies, and of those that

were maimed in their bodies, and of those whom none of their

own relations would endure, they should run such hazards in

assisting them ? For they could not foresee that the king

would run away from them; on the contrary, he saith himself,

that " Amenophis's son had three hundred thousand men with

him, and met them at Pelusium." Now, to be sure, those that

came could not be ignorant of this; but for the king's re足

pentance and flight, how could they possibly guess at it ? He

