238 THE ROMANS ASSAULT [B. VI.

farther make them less zealous in their attempts; and for

those tbat had run under the darts, some of them were terri­

fied by the good order and closeness of the enemies' ranks,

before they came to a close fight, and others were pricked

with their spears, and turned back again : at length they re­

proached one another for their cowardice, and retired without

doing any thing. This attack was made upon the first day

of the month Panemus [Tamuz.] So when the Jews were

retreated, the Romans brought their engines, although they

had all the while stones thrown at them from the tower of

Antonia, and were assaulted by fire and sword, and by all

sorts of darts which necessity afforded the Jews to make use of;

for although these had great dependence on their own wall

and a contempt of the Roman engines, yet did they endeavor

to hinder the Romans from bringing them. Now these Ro­

mans struggled hard, on the contrary, to bring them, as deem­

ing that this zeal of the Jews was in order to avoid any im­

pression to be made on the tower of Antonia, because its wall

was but weak and its foundations rotten. However, that

tower did not yield to the blows given it from the engines;

yet did the Romans bear the impressions made by the ene­

mies' darts, which were perpetually cast at them, and did not

give way to any of those dangers that came upon them from

above, and so they brought their engines to bear. But then,

as they were beneath the other, and were sadly wounded by

the stones thrown down upon them, some of them threw their

shields over their bodies, and partly with their hands, and

partly with their bodies, and partly with crows, they under­

mined its foundations, and with great pains they removed

four of its stones. Then night came upon both sides, and

put an end to this struggle for the present: however, that

night the wall was so shaken by the battering-rams in that

place where John had used his stratagem before, and had un­

dermined their banks, that the ground then gave way, and

the wall fell down suddenly.

4. When this accident had unexpectedly happened, the

minds of both parties were variously affected: for though one

would expect that the Jews would be discouraged, because

