C. I.] THE TOWER OF ANTONIA. 245

combatants trod upon the bodies and the armor of those that

were dead, and dashed them to pieces. Accordingly, to which

side soever the battle inclined those that had the advantage

exhorted one another to go on, as did those that were beaten

make great lamentation. But still there was no room for

flight nor for pursuit, but disorderly revolutions and retreats,

while the armies were intermixed one with another; but those

that were in the first ranks were under the necessity of kill­

ing or being killed, without any way for escaping; for those

on both sides that came behind forced those before them to

go on, without leaving any space between the armies. At

length the Jews' violent zeal was too hard for the Roman

skill, and the battle already inclined entirely that way; for

the fight had lasted from the ninth hour of the night to the

seventh hour of the day, while the Jews came on in crowds,

and had the danger the temple was in for their motive; the

Romans having no more here than a part of their army; for

those legions on which the soldiers on that side depended

were not to come up to them. So it was at present thought

sufficient by the Romans to take possession of the tower of

Antonia.

8. But there was one Julian, a centurion, that came from

Bithynia, a man he was of great reputation, whom I had for­

merly seen in that war, and one of the highest fame, both for

his skill in war, his strength of body, and the courage of his

soul. This man seeing the Romans giving ground, and in a

sad condition, for he stood by Titus at the tower of Antonia,

leaped out, and of himself alone put the Jews to flight, when

they were already conquerors, and made them retire as far

as the corner of the inner court of the temple: from him the

multitude fled away in crowds, as supposing that neither his

strength nor his violent attacks could be those of a mere man.

Accordingly, he rushed through the midst of the Jews, as

they were dispersed all abroad, and killed those that he

caught. Nor, indeed, was there any sight that appeared more

wonderful in the eyes of Caesar, or more terrible to others,

than this. However, he was himself pursued by fate, which

21 * '

