DISSERTATION II. 497

Saturn, when he was king of the country, and had by a nymph

of that country, named Anobret, an only begotten son, whom,

on that account, they called Jeud (the Phoenicians to this day

calling an only begotten son by that name,) he, in his dread

of very great dangers that lay upon the country from war,

adorned his son with royal apparel, and built an altar, and

offered him in sacrifice."

"' The Phoenicians, when they were in great dangers by

war, by famine, or by pestilence, sacrificed to Saturn one of

the dearest of their people, whom they chose by public suf­

frage for that purpose : and Sanchoniatho's Phoenician history

is full of such sacrifices. [These hitherto I take to have been

before the flood."]

"2In Arabia, the Dumatii sacrificed a child every year."

"3They relate, that of old the [Egyptian] kings sacrificed

such men as were of the same color with Typho, at the sepulehre

of Osiris."

" ' Manctho relates, that they burnt Typhonean men alive

in the city Idithyia [or Ilithyia,] and scattered their ashes

like chaff that is winnowed; and this was done publicly, and

at a set season, in the dog-days."

"5 The barbarous nations did a long time admit of the

slaughter of children, as of a holy practice, and acceptable to

the gods. And this thing both private persons, and kings,

and entire nations practice at proper seasons."

"6The human sacrifices that were enjoined by the Dodo-

nean oracle, mentioned in Pausanias's Achaies, in the tragical

story of Coresus and Callirrhoe, sufficiently intimate that the

Phoenician and Egyptian priests had set up this Dodonean

oracle before the time of Amosis, who destroyed that barbarous

practice in Egypt."

Ieque adytis hcec (ristia dicta reporlat,

Saaguine placastis veatos, et virgiae caisa.

Cum primum Jliacus Danui venislis ad oras;

Sanguine qucerendi reditus, aaimaque litandum

Argoliea.1

1 Porphyry, p. 78. 2 Porphyry, p. 77. 3 Diod. p. 78.

* Plutarch, p. 78. 6 Nonnulli ap. Philon. p. 76.

• Cumbcrl. Sanchon. p. 38. ' Virg. /Eneid. B. ii. ver. 115.

42*

