470 DISSERTATION I.

These miseries befell the Jews by way of revenge for James

the Just, who was the brother of Jesus that was called Christ,

on this account, that they had slain him who was a most

righteous person.

The same Josephus declares the manner of his death in the

twentieth book of the Antiquities, in these words : — Caesar

sent Albinus into Judea to be procurator, when he had heard

that Festus was dead. Now Ananus junior, who, as wc said,

had been admitted to the high-priesthood, was in his temper

bold and daring in an extraordinary manner. He was also

of the sect of the Sadducees, who are more savage in judgment

than any of the other Jews, as we have already signified.

Since, therefore, this was the character of Ananus, he thought

he had now a proper opportunity [to exercise his authority,]

because Festus was dead, and Albinus was but upon the road;

so he assembles the sanhedrim of judges, and brings before

them James, the brother of Jesus, who was called Christ, and

some others [of his companions,] and when he had formed an

accusation against them, as breakers of the law, he delivered

them to be stoned: but as for those who seemed the most

equitable of the citizens, and those who were the most uneasy

at the breach of the laws, they disliked what was done. They

also sent to the king [Agrippa,] desiring him to send to

Ananus that he should act so no more, for that what he had

already done could not be justified, &c.

About A. D. 360. Ambrose or Hegesippus de Excul.

Urb. lIierosolym. lib. ii. cap. 12.—We have discovered that

it was the opinion and belief of the Jews, as Josephus affirms

(who is an author not to be rejecter], when he writes against

himself,) that Herod lost his army, not by the deceit of men,

but by the anger of God, and that justly, as an effect of re­

venge for what he did to John the Baptist, a just man, who

had said to him, It is not lawful for thee to have thy brother's

wife.

The Jews themselves also bear witness to Christ, as appears

by Josephus, the writer of their history, who says thus: —

That there was at that time a wise man, if, says he, it be

lawful to have him called a man, a doer of wonderful works,

