12 GALILEE. [B. Iii

they had been with Cestius Gallus before Vespasian came,

and had given their faith to him, and received the security

of his right hand, and had received a Roman garrison ; and

at this time withal they received Vespasian, the Roman gene­

ral, very kindly, and readily promised that they would assist

him against their own countrymen. Now the general de­

livered them, at their desire, as many horsemen and footmen

as he thought sufficient to oppose the incursions of the Jews,

if they should come against them. And, indeed, the danger

of losing Sepphoris would be no small one, in this war that

was now beginning, seeing it was the largest city of Galilee,

and built in a place by nature very strong, and might be a

security of the whole nation's [fidelity to the Romans.]

CHAPTER III.

A DESCRIPTION OF GALILEE, SAMARIA, AND JUDEA.

§ 1. Now Phoenicia and Syria encompass about the Gali-

lees, which are two, and called the Upper Galilee and the

Lower. They are bounded, towards the sun-setting, with

the borders of the territory belonging to Ptolemais, and by

Carmel; which mountain had formerly belonged to the Gali­

leans, but now belonged to the Tyrians, to which mountain

adjoins Gaba, which is called the city of horsemen, because

those horsemen that were dismissed by Herod the king

dwelt therein; they are bounded on the south with Sa­

maria and Scythopolis, as far as the river Jordan ; on the

east with Ilippene and Gadaris, and also with Gaulanitis and

the borders of the kingdom of Agrippa; its northern parts

are bounded by Tyre and the country of the Tyrians. As

for that Galileo which is called the Lower, it extends in

length from Tiberias to Zabulon, and of the maritime places

Ptolemais is its neighbor; its breadth is from the village called

Xaloth, which lies in the great plain, as far as Bersabe, from

which beginning also is taken the breadth of the Upper Gali­

lee, as far as the village Baca, which divides the land of the

