434 FLAVIUB JOSEPHUS [B. II.

ascribing the authority and the power to God, and by per­

suading all the people to have a regard to him as the author

of all the good things that were enjoyed either in common

by all mankind, or by each one in particular, and of all that

they themselves obtained, by praying to him in their greatest

difficulties. He informed them, that it was impossible to

escape God's observation, even in any of our outward actions,

or in any of our inward thoughts. Moreover, he represented

Godl as unbegotten and immutable, through all eternity,

superior to all mortal conceptions in pulehritude; and though

known to us by his power, yet unknown to us as to his

essence. I do not now explain how these notions of God are

the sentiments of the wisest among the Grecians, and how

they were taught them upon the principles that he afforded

them. However, they testify, with great assurance, that

these notions are just, and agreeable to the nature of God,

and to his majesty: for Pythagoras, and Anaxagoras, and

Plato, and the stoic philosophers that succeeded them, and

almost all the rest, are of the same sentiments, and had the

it be Ycry obsorvnblo withal, that he never uses such expressions in his

books Of the War, written originally for the Jews beyond Euphrates, and

in their language, in all these cases. However, Josephus directly supposes

the Jewish settlement under Moses to be a divine settlement, and, indeed,

no other than a real Theocracy.

1 These excellent accounts of the divine attributes, and that God is not to

be at all known in his essence, as also some other clear expressions about

the resurrection of the dead, and the state of departed souls, &c, in this

late work of Josephus's, look more like the exalted notions of the Esscns,

or, rather, Ebionite Christians, than of a more Jew or Pharisee. The fol­

lowing largo accounts also of the laws of Moses seem to me to show a regard

to the higher interpretations and improvements of Moses's laws, derived

from Jesus Christ, than to the bare letter of them in the Old Testament,

whence alone Josephus took them when ho wrote his Antiquities: nor, as I

think, can some of theso laws, though generally excellent in their kind, be

properly now found either in the copies of the Jewish Tentateuch, or in

Philo, or in Josephus himself, beforo he became a Nazarene or Ebionite

Christian, nor even all of them among the laws of Catholic Christianity

themselves. I desire, therefore, the learned reader to consider, whether

some of these improvements or interpretations might not be peculiar to the

Essens among the Jews, or, rather, to tho Nazarenes or Ebionites among

the Christians; though we have, indeed, but imperfect accounts of those

Nazarene or Ebionite Christians transmitted down to us at this day.

