C. V.J THE TEMPLE. 183

midst [of the inmost court.] that most sacred part of the

temple, it was ascended to by twelve steps; and in front its

height and its breadth were equal, and each a hundred cubits,

though it was behind forty cubits narrower; for on its front

it had what may be styled shoulders on each side, that passed

twenty cubits farther. Its first gate was seventy cubits high

and twenty-five cubits broad : but this gate had no doors, for

it represented the universal visibility of heaven, and that it

cannot be excluded from any place. Its front was covered

with gold all over, and through it the first part of the house,

that was more inward, did all of it appear, which, as it was

very large, so did all the parts about the more inward gate

appear to shine to those that saw them: but then, as the en­

tire house was divided into two parts within, it was only the

first part of it that was open to our view. Its height extended

all along to ninety cubits in height, and its length was fifty

cubits, and its breadth twenty. But that gate which was at

the end of the first part of the house was, as we have already

observed, all over covered with gold, as was its whole wall

about it: it had also golden vines above it, from which clus­

ters of grapes hung as tall as a man's height. But then this

house, as it wns divided into two parts, the inner part was

lower than the appearance of the outer, and had golden doors

of fifty-five cubits altitude and sixteen in breadth; but before

these doors there was a veil of equal largeness with the doors.

It was a Babylonian curtain, embroidered with blue, and fine

linen, and scarlet, and purple, and of a contexture that was

truly wonderful. Nor was this mixture of colors without its

mystical interpretation, but was a kind of image of the uni­

verse ; for by the scarlet there seemed to be enigmatically

signified fire, by the fine flax the earth, by the blue the air,

and by the purple the sea; two of them having their colors

the foundation of this resemblance; but the fine flax and the

purple have their own origin for that foundation, the earth

producing the one, and the sea the other. This curtain had

also embroidered upon it all that was mystical in the heavens,

excepting that of the [twelve] signs, representing living

creatures.

