C. VII.] VESPASIAN. 27

Josephus was then in fear for the city, and leaped out, and

all the Jewish multitude with him: these fell together upon

the Romans in great numbers, and drove them away from

the wall, and performed a great many glorious and bold ac­

tions. Yet did they suffer as much as they made the enemy

suffer ; for as despair of deliverance encouraged the Jews, so

did a sense of shame equally encourage the Romans. These

last had skill as well as strength; the other had only courage,

which armed them and made them fight furiously. And

when the fight had lasted all day, it was put an end to by

the coming on of the night. They had wounded a great

many of the Romans, and killed of them thirteen men; of the

Jews' side seventeen were slain, and six hundred wounded.

6. On the next day the Jews made another attack upon

the Romans, and went out of the walls, and fought a much

more desperate battle with them than before : for they were

now become more courageous than formerly, and that on

account of the unexpected good opposition they had made

the day before; as they found the Romans also to fight more

desperately; for a sense of shame inflamed these into a

passion, as esteeming their failure of a sudden victory to be

a kind of defeat. Thus did the Romans try to make an im­

pression upon the Jews, till the fifth day continually, while

the people of Jotapata made sallies out, and fought at the

walls most desperately; nor were the Jews affrighted at the

strength of the enemy, nor were the Romans discouraged at

the difficulties they met with in taking the city.

7. Now Jotapata is almost all of it built on a precipice,

having on all the other sides of it every way valleys im­

mensely deep and steep, insomuch that those who would look

down, would have their sight fail them before it reaches to

the bottom. It is only to be come at on the north side,

where the utmost part of the city is built on the mountain,

as it ends obliquely at a plain. This mountain Josephus

had encompassed with a wall when he fortified the city, that

its top might not be capable of being seized upon by the

enemies. The city is covered all round with other mountains,

and can no way be seen till a man comes just upon it. And

this w»« **"* -* -:*—*:«-, of Jotapata.

