90 THE HIGH-PRIEST ANANTJS. [B. IV.

lying pretence these men made for so flagrant an enormity

was this, that these men had had conferences with the Romans

for a surrender of Jerusalem to them; and so they said they

had slain only such as were traitors to their common liberty.

Upon the whole, they grew the more insolent upon this bold

prank of theirs, as though they had been the benefactors and

saviors of the city.

6. Now the people were come to that degree of meanness

and fear, and these robbers to that degree of madness, that

these last took upon them to appoint high-priests.1 So when

they had disannulled the succession, according to those families

out of which the high-priests used to be made, they ordained

certain unknown and ignoble persons for that office, that they

might have their assistance in their wicked undertakings; for

such as obtained this highest of all honors, without any

desert, were forced to comply with those that bestowed it on

them. They also set the principal men at variance one with

another, by several sorts of contrivances and tricks, and

gained the opportunity of doing what they pleased, by the

mutual quarrels of those who might have obstructed their

measures; till at length, when they were satiated with the

unjust actions they had done toward men, they transferred

their contumelious behavior to God himself, and came into

the sanctuary with polluted feet.

7. And now the multitude were going to rise against them

already; for Ananus, the ancientest of the high-priests, per­

suaded them to it. He was a very prudent man, and had,

perhaps, saved the city, if he could but have escaped the

hands of those that plotted against him. Those men made

1 Here we may discover the utter disgrace and ruin of the high-priest­

hood among tho Jews, when undeserving, ignoble, and vile persons were

advanced to that noble office by the seditious ; which sort of high-priests,

as Josephus well remarks here, were thereupon obliged to comply with and

assist those that advanced them in their impious practices. Tho names of

these high-priests, or rather ridiculous and profane persons, were Jesus, tho

son of Damneus, Jesus, the sou of Gamaliel, Matthias, the son of Theophilus,

and that prodigious ignoramus Phannias, the son of Samuel; all which we

shall meet with in Josephus's future history of this war; nor do wc meet

with any other so much as pretended high-priest after rhannias, till Jcru-

salem was taken and destroyed.

