DISSERTATION I. 483

Christ f' And we may full as well prove from Pilate's in­

scription upon the cross, that he hereby declared himself a

believer in Christ, for the real king of the Jews, as we can

from these words of Josephus, that he hereby declared him­

self to be a real believer in him, as the true Messiah.

IV. Though Josephus did not design here to declare him­

self openly to be a Christian, yet could he not possibly

believe all that he here asserts concerning Jesus Christ,

unless he were so far a Christian as the Jewish Nazarenes or

Ebionites then were who believed Jesus of Nazareth to be the

true Messiah, without believing he was more than a man;

who also believed the necessity of the observation of the

ceremonial law of Moses in order to salvation for all mankind,

which were the two main articles of those Jewish Christians'

faith, though in opposition to all the thirteen apostles of

Jesus Christ in the first century, and in opposition to the

whole Catholic church of Christ in the following centuries

also. Accordingly, I have elsewhere proved, that Josephus

was no other, in his own mind and conscience, than a

Nazarene or Ebionite Jewish Christian: and have observed

that this entire testimony, and all that Josephus says of

John the Baptist, and of James, as well as his absolute

silence about all the rest of the apostles and their companions,

exactly agrees to him under that character, and no other.

And, indeed, to me it is most astonishing, that all our learned

men, who have of late considered these testimonies of

Josephus, except the converted Jew Galatinus, should miss

such an obvious and natural observation. We all know this

from St. James's2 own words, that so many ten thousands of

Jews as believed in Christ, in the first century, were all

zealous of the ceremonial law, or were no other than Nazarene

or Ebionite Christians; and, by consequence, if there were

any reason to think our Josephus to be, in any sense, a

believer or a Christian, as from all these testimonies there

were very great ones, all those and many other reasons could

not but conspire to assure us he was no other than a Nazarene

' Matth. xxTH. 17, 22. > Acts xxi. 20

