C. IX.] TITUS RESUMES THE SIEGE. 203

CHAPTER IX.

LEAVING OFF THE SIEGE FOR AWHILE, SET HIMSELF AGAIN

TO PROSECUTE THE SAME, BUT SOON SENT JOSEPHUS TO DIS­

COURSE WITH HIS OWN COUNTRYMEN ABOUT PEACE.

§ 1. A resolution was now taken by Titus to relax the

siege for a little while, and to afford the seditious an interval

for consideration, and to see whether the demolishing of their

second wall would not make them a little more compliant, or

whether they were not somewhat afraid of a famine, because

the spoils they had gotten by rapine would not be sufficient

for them long ; so he made use of this relaxation in order to

compass his own designs. Accordingly, as the usual appointed

time when he must distribute subsistence-money to the soldiers

was now come, he gave orders that the commanders should

put the army into battle array, in the face of the enemy, and

then gave every one of the soldiers their pay. So the soldiers,

according to custom, opened the cases wherein their arms

before lay covered, and marched with their breast-plates on,

as did the horsemen lead their horses in their fine trappings.

Then did the places that were before the city shine very splen­

didly for a great way; nor was there any thing ever so grate­

ful to Titus's own men, or so terrible to the enemy, as that

sight. For the whole old wall and the north side of the temple

were full of spectators ; and one might see the houses full of

such as looked at them: nor was there any part of the city

which was not covered over with their multitude; nay, a very

great consternation seized upon the hardiest of the Jews them­

selves, when they saw all the army in the same place, together

with the fineness of their arms and the good order of their

men. And I cannot but think that the seditious would have

changed their minds at that sight, unless the crimes they had

committed against the people had been so horrid that they

despaired of forgiveness from the Romans; but as they be­

lieved death with torments must be their punishment, if they

