DISSERTATION I. 481

III. The famous clause in this testimony of Josephus con­

cerning Christ, This was Christ, or the Christ, did not mean

that this Jesus was the Christ of God, or the true Messias

of the Jews, but that this Jesus was distinguished from all

others of that name, of which there were not a few, as

mentioned by Josephus himself, by the addition of the other

name of Christ; or that this person was no other than ho

whom all the world knew by the name of Jesus Christ, and

his followers by the name of Christians. This I esteem to

be a clear case, and that from the arguments following.

(1.) The Greeks and Romans, for whose use Josephus

wrote his Antiquities, could no otherwise understand theso

words. The Jews indeed, and afterwards the Christians,

who knew that a great Messias, a person that was to- be

Christ, the Anointed of God, that was to perform the office

of a King, a Priest, and a Prophet, to God's people, might

readily so understand this expression; but Josephus, as I

have already noted, wrote here, not to Jews or Christians,

but to Greeks and Romans, who knew nothing of this, but

knew very well that an eminent person living in Judea, whoso

name was Jesus Chrest, or Jesus Christ, had founded a new

and numerous sect, which took the latter of those names, and

were every where from him called Chrestians, or Christians ;

in which sense alone could they understand theso words cf

Josephus, and in which sense I believe he desired they should

understand them: nor does Josephus ever use the Hebrew

term 3Iessiah in any of his writings, nor the Greek term

Christ in any such acceptation elsewhere.

(2.) Josephus himself as good as explains his own meaning,

and that by the last clause of this very passage, where he

says the Christians were named from this Christ, without a

syllable as though he really meant he was the true Messiah,

or Christ of God. He farther seems to me to explain this

his meaning in that other place, where alone he elsewhere

mentions this name of Christ, that is, when upon occasion of

the mention of James, when he was condemned by Ananus,

he calls him the Brother of Jesus, not that was the true

Messiah, or the true Christ, but only that was called Christ.

IV. —41

