C. Vm.J TO FINISH THE WAR. 129

strong-holds all about Idumoa; and when ho had seized upon

two villages which were in the very midst of Idumea, Betaris

and Capartobas, ho slew above ten thousand of the people,

and carried into captivity above a thousand, and drove away

the rest of the multitude, and placed no small part of his

own forces in them, who overran and laid waste the whole

mountainous country ; while he, with the rest of his forces,

returned to Emmaus, whence he came down through the

country of Samaria, and hard by the city, by others called

Ncapolis (or Sichem,) but by the people of that country

Mabortha, or Corea, where he pitched his camp, on the se足

cond day of the month Desius [Sivan;] and on the day fol足

lowing he came to Jericho; on which day Trajan, one of his

commanders, joined him with the forces he brought out of

Perca, all the places beyond Jordan being subdued already.

2. Hereupon a great multitude prevented their approach,

and came out of Jericho, and fled to those mountainous parts

that lay over against Jerusalem, while that part which was

left behind was in a great measure destroyed; they also found

the city desolate. It is situated in a plain; but a naked and

barren mountain, of a very great length, hangs over it, which

extends itself to the land about Scythopolis northward, but

as far as the country of Sodom and the utmost limits of the

lake Asphaltitis southward. This mountain is all of it very

uneven, and uninhabited by reason of its barrenness: there

is an opposite mountain that is situated over against it on

the other side of Jordan ; this last begins at Julias and the

northern quarters, and extends itself southward as far as

Somorrhon,1 which is the bounds of Petra in Arabia. In

thls ridge of mountains there is one called the Iron Moun足

tain, that runs in length as far as Moab. Now the region

that lies in the middle between these ridges of mountains is

called the Great Plain ; it reaches from the village Ginnabris

1 Whether tins Somorrhon or Somorrah ought not to bo hero written Go足

morrah, as some MSS. in a manner have it (for the place meant by Josophus

seems to be near Segor or Zoar, at the very south of the Dead Sea, hard by

which stood Sodom and Gomorrah,) cannot now be certainly determined,

but seems by no means improbable.

