i20 FLATIUS JOSEPnUS [b. ii.

Great, and Licinius Crassus, and, last of all, Titus Caesar,

have conquered us in war, and gotten possession of our tem­

ple ; yet have they none of them found any such thing there,

nor, indeed, any thing but what was agreeable to the strictest

piety; although what they found we are not at liberty to re­

veal to other nations. But for Antiochus [Epiphanes,] ho

had no just cause for that ravage in our temple that he made;

he only came to it when he wanted money, without declaring

himself our enemy, and attacked us while we were his asso­

ciates and his friends : nor did he find any thing there that

was ridiculous. This is attested by many worthy writers;

Polybius of Megalopolis, Strabo of Cappadocia, Nicolaus of

Damascus, Timagenes, Castor the chronologer, and Apollo-

dorus,1 who all say, that it was out of Antiochus's want of

money that he broke his league with the Jews, and despoiled

their temple when it was full of gold and silver. Apion ought

to have had a regard to these facts, unless he had himself

had either an ass's heart or a dog's impudence; of such a

dog I mean as they worship; for he had no other external

reason for the lies he tells of us. As for us Jews, we ascribe

no honor or power to asses, as do the Egyptians to crocodiles

and asps, when they esteem such as are seized upon by the

former or bitten by the latter to be happy persons, and per­

sons worthy of God. Asses are the same with us which they

are with other wise men, viz. creatures that bear the burdens

that we lay upon them ; but if they come to our threshing-

floors, and eat our corn, or do not perform what we impose

upon them, we beat them with a great many stripes, because

it is their business to minister to us in our husbandry affairs.

But this Apion of ours was either perfectly unskilful in the

composition of such fallacious discourses, or, however, when

he began [somewhat better,] he was not able to persevere in

what he had undertaken, since he hath no manner of success

in those reproaches he casts upon us.

1 It is (i great pity that these six pagan authors, here mentioned to have

described the famous profanation of the Jewish temple by Antiochus Epi­

phanes, should be all lost; I mean so far of their writings as contained that

description; though it is plain Josephus perused them all, as extant in his

time.

