170 IHS JIWS CONTRIVE [B. V.

the holy house; while the people, Who had no concern in the

sedition, supposed that this assault was made against all with­

out distinction ; as the zealots thought it was made against

themselves only. So these left off guarding the gates any

longer, and leaped down from their battlements before they

came to an engagement, and fled away into the subterranean

caverns of the temple; while the people that stood trembling

at the altar and about the holy house were rolled on heaps

together, and trampled upon, and were beaten both with

wooden and with iron weapons without mercy. Such also as

had differences with others slew many persons that were quiet,

out of their own private enmity and hatred, as if they were

opposite to the seditious; and all those that had formerly

offended any of these plotters were now known, and were

now led away to the slaughter: and when they had done

abundance of horrid mischief to the guiltless, they granted a

truce to the guilty, and let those go off that came out of the

caverns. These followers of John also did now seize upon

this inner temple, and upon all the warlike engines therein,

and then ventured to oppose Simon. And thus that sedition

which had been divided into three factions, was now reduced

to two.

2. But Titus, intending to pitch his camp nearer to the

city than Scopus, placed as many of his choice horsemen and

footmen as he thought sufficient opposite to the Jews, to pre­

vent their sallying out upon them, while he gave orders for

the whole army to level the distance, as far as the wall of the

city. So they threw down all the hedges and walls which the

inhabitants had made about their gardens and groves of trees,

and cut down all the fruit-trees that lay between them and

the wall of the city, and filled up all the hollow places and

the chasms, and demolished the rocky precipices with iron

instruments: and thereby made all the place level, from

Scopus to Herod's monuments, which adjoined to the pool

called the Serpent's Pool.

3. Now at this very time the Jews contrived the following

stratagem against the Romans. The bolder sort of the sedi­

tious went out at the towers called the Women's Towers, as

