C. IX.J TITUS IN THE CITY. 291

2. And now, since his soldiers were already quite tired

with killing men, and yet there appeared to be a vast

multitude still remaining alive, Caesar gave orders that they

should kill none but those that were in arms, and opposed

them, but should take the rest alive. But, together with

those whom they had orders to slay, they slew the aged and

the infirm ; but for those that were in their flourishing age,

and who might be useful to them, they drove them together

into the temple, and shut them up within the walls of the

court of the women; over which Caesar set one of his freed-

men, as also Fronto, one of his own friends, which last was

to determine every one's fate, according to his merits. So

this Fronto slew all those that had been seditious and

robbers, who were impeached one by another; but of the

young men he chose out the tallest and most beautiful, and

reserved them for the triumph: and as for the rest of the

multitude that were above seventeen years old, he put them

into bonds, and sent them to the Egyptian1 mines. Titus

also sent a great number into the provinces, as a present to

them, that they might be destroyed upon their theatres by

the sword and by the wild beasts; but those that were under

seventeen years of age were sold for slaves. Now, during

the days wherein Fronto was distinguishing these men, there

perished for want of food eleven thousand, some of which did

not taste any food, through the hatred their guards bore to

them, and others would not take in any when it was given

them. The multitude also was so very great, that they were

in want even of corn for their sustenance.

3. Now, the number2 of those that were carried captive

1 See the several predictions, that the Jews, if they became obstinate in

their idolatry and wickedness, should bo sent again, or sold, into Egypt, for

their punishment, Deut. xxviii. 68; Jer. xiv. 7; Hos. viii. 13; ix. 3; xi. 4,

5; Esd. xv. 10-13, with Authentic Records, Part i. page 49, 121, and Reland

Palaestina, torn. ii. page 715.

* The whole multitude of Jews that were destroyed during the entire seven  
years before this time, in all the countries of and bordering on Judea, is

summed up by Archbishop Usher, from Lypsius, out of Josephus, at the

year of Christ 70, and amounts to 1,337,490. Nor could there have been

that number of Jews in Jerusalem to be destroyed in this siege, as will be

presently set down by Josephus; but that both Jews and proselytes of

