DISSERTATION III. 527

They that built this city foresaw that, from the difference

of their conduct of life from their neighbors, they should have

frequent wars; thence it came to pass that they had provi­

sions for a long siege. After Pompey's conquest also, their

fear and experience had taught them generally what they

should want.1

Moreover, the covetous temper that prevailed under Clau­

dius gave the Jews an opportunity of purchasing for money

leave2 to fortify Jerusalem; so they built walls in time of

peace, as if they were going to war, they being augmented

in number by those rude multitudes of people that retired

thither on the ruin of the other cities ; for every obstinate

fellow ran away thither, and there became more seditious than

before.

There were three captains, and as many armies. Simon

had the remotest and largest parts of the walls under him.

John, who was also called Bar Gioras [the son of Gioras,]

had the middle parts of the city under him : and Eleazar had

fortified the temple itself. John and Simon were superior in

multitude and strength of arms, Eleazar was superior by his

situation; but battles, factions and burnings were common to

them all; and a great quantity of corn was consumed by fire.

After awhile John sent some who, under the pretence of offer­

ing sacrifice, might slay Eleazar and his body of troops, which

they did, and got the temple under their power. So the citj

now was parted into two factions, until, upon the coming of

the Romans, this war abroad produced peace between thes-

that were at home.

1 This is Tacitus's or the Romans' own hypothesis, unsupported by Jose-

phus.

2 This sale of leave for the Jews to build the walls of Jerusalem for money

is also Tacitus's or the Romans' own hypothesis, unsupported by Josephus.

Nor is Joscphus's character of Claudius near so bad, as to other things also,

as it is in Tacitus and Suetonius. Dio says he was far from covetousness in

particular. The others seem to have misrepresented his meek and quiet

temper and learning, but without ambition, and his great kindness to the

Jews, as the most contemptible folly. See Antiq. b. xix. ch. iv. sect. 4. He

was, indeed, much ruled at first by a very bad minister, Pallas; and at last

was ruled and poisoned by a very bad wife, Agrippina.

