516 DISSERTATION III.

and the [great] sea. They have a prospect of Syria on their

north quarter, as at some distance from them.1

The bodies of the men are healthy, and such as will bear

great labors.

They have not many showers of rain: their soil is very

fruitful: the produce of their land is, like ours, in great

plenty.2

They have also, besides ours, two trees peculiar to them足

selves, the balsam-tree and the palm-tree. Their groves of

palms are tall and beautiful. The balsam-tree is not very

large. As soon as any branch is swelled, the vines quake as

for fear, if you bring an iron knife to cut them. They are

to be opened with the broken piece of a stone, or with the

shell of a fish. The juice is useful in physic.

Libanus is their principal mountain, and is very high, and

yet, what is very strange to be related, it is always shadowed

with trees, and never free from snow. The same mountain

supplies the river Jordan with water, and affords it its foun足

tains also. Nor is this Jordan carried into the sea; it passes

through one and a second lake undiminished, but it is stopped

by the third.3

This third lake is vastly great in circumference, as if it

were a sea.4 It is of an ill taste and is pernicious to the ad足

joining inhabitants by its strong smell. The wind raises no

waves there, nor will it maintain either fishes, or such birds

as use the water. The reason is uncertain, but the fact is

thus, that bodies cast into it are borne up, as by somewhat

solid. Those who can and those who cannot swim are equally

1 Seo the chorography of Judea in Josephus, Of the War, b. iii. sect. 3;

whence most probably Tacitus framed this short abridgement of it. It

comes in both authors naturally before Vespasian's first campaign.

2 The latter branch of this Tacitus might have from Josephus, Of the War,

b. iii. ch. iii. sect. 2, 3, 4. The other is not in the present copies.

3 These accounts of Jordan, of its fountains derived from Mount Libanus,

and of the two lakes it runs through, and its stoppage by the third, are ex足

actly agreeable to Josephus, Of the War, b. iii. ch. x. sect. 7, 8.

* No less than 080 furlongs long and 150 broad, in Josephus, Of the War,  
b. iv. ch. viii. sect. 4.

