180 THE TEMPLE, [B. V".

new banks, and the hill became a larger plain. They then

broke down the wall on the north side, and took in as much

as sufficed afterward for the compass of the entire temple.

And when they had built walls on three sides of the temple

round about, from the bottom of the hill, and had performed

a work that was greater than could bo hoped for (in which

work long ages were spent by them, as well as all their sacred

treasures were exhausted, which were still replenished by

those tributes which were sent to God from the whole habit­

able earth,) they then encompassed their upper courts with

cloisters, as well as they [afterward] did the lowest [court of

the] temple. The lowest part of this was erected to the

height of three hundred cubits, and in some places more; yet

did not the entire depth of the foundations appear; for they

brought earth, and filled up the valleys, as being desirous to

make them on a level with the narrow streets of the city,

wherein they made use of stones of forty cubits in magnitude:

for the great plenty of money they then had, and the

liberality of the people, made this attempt of theirs to succeed

to an incredible degree. And what could not be so much as

hoped for as ever to be accomplished, was, by perseverance

and length of time, brought to perfection.

2. Now for the works that were above these foundations,

these were not unworthy of such foundations ; for all the clois­

ters were double, and the pillars to them belonging were

twenty-five cubits in height, and supported the cloisters.

These pillars were of one entire stone each of them, and that

stone was white marble; and the roofs were adorned with

cedar curiously graven; the natural magnificence, and excel­

lent polish, and the harmony of the joints in these cloisters,

afforded a prospect that was very remarkable; nor was it on

for the other courts, &e. is without all foundation in the scriptures, and not

at all confirmed by his exacter account in the Antiquities. All that is or can

be true here is this, that when the court of the Gentiles was long afterwards

to be encompassed with cloisters, the southern foundation for these cloisters

was found not to be large or firm enough, and was raised, and that additional

foundation supported by great pillars and arches under ground, which Jo-

sephus speaks of elsewhere, Antiq. B. xv. ch. xi. sect. 3; and which Mr.

Maundrel saw, and describes, p. 100 as extant under ground at this day.

