C. IV.] JERUSALEM. 177

octagon, and over against it was the tower Hippicus, and

hard by it two others were erected by king Herod in the old

wall. These were for largeness, beauty, and strength beyond

all that were in the habitable earth ; for besides the magna­

nimity of his nature, and his magnificence towards the city

on other occasions, he built these after such an extraordinary

manner, to gratify his own private affections, and dedicated

these towers to the memory of those three persons who had

been the dearest to him, and from whom he named them.

" They were his brother, his friend, and his wife. This wife

he had slain out of his love [and jealousy,] as we have already

related ; the other two he lost in war, as they were courage­

ously fighting. Hippicus, so named from his friend, was

square ; its length and breadth was each twenty-five cubits,

and its height thirty, and it had no vacuity in it. Over this

solid building, which was composed of great stones united

together, there was a reservoir twenty cubits deep; over which

there was a house of two stories, whose height was twenty-five

cubits, and divided into several parts ; over which were battle­

ments of two cubits, and turrets all round of three cubits

high, insomuch that the entire height added together amounted

to four-score cubits. The second tower, which he named from

his brother Phasaelus, had its breadth and its height equal,

each of them forty cubits: over which was its solid height of

forty cubits; over which a cloister went round about, whose

height was ten cubits, and it was covered from enemies by

breastworks and bulwarks. There was also built over that

cloister another tower, parted into magnificent rooms, and a

place for bathing; so that this tower wanted nothing that

might make it appear to be a royal palace. It was also

adorned with battlements and turrets, more than was the

foregoing, and the entire altitude was about ninety cubits:

the appearance of it resembled the tower of Pharus, which

exhibited a fire to such as sailed to Alexandria, but was much

larger than it in compass. This was now converted to a

house, wherein Simon exercised his tyrannical authority.

The third tower was Mariamne, for that was his queen's

name : it was solid as high as twenty cubits: its breadth and

