C.X.] VESPASIAN, EMPEROR. 147

5. So upon the exhortations of Mucianus and the other

commanders that he would accept of the empire, and upon

that of the rest of the army, who cried out that they were

willing to be led against all his opposers, he was, in the first

place, intent upon gaining the dominion over Alexandria, as

knowing that Egypt was of the greatest consequence in order

to obtain the entire government, because of its supplying of

corn [to Rome;] which corn if he could be master of, he

hoped to dethrone Vitellius, supposing he should aim to keep

the empire by force (for he would not be able to support him­

self if the multitude at Rome should once be in want of food;)

and because he was desirous to join the two legions that were

at Alexandria to the other legions that were with him. He

also considered with himself, that he should then have that

country for a defence to himself against the uncertainty of

fortune; for Egypt1 is hard to be entered by land, and hath

no good havens by sea. It hath on the west the dry deserts

of Libya, and on the south Siene, that divides it from

Ethiopia, as well as the cataracts of the Nile, that cannot be

sailed over, and on the east the Red Sea, extending as far as

Coptus; and it is fortified on the north by the land that

reaches to Syria, together with that called the Egyptain Sea,

having no havens in it for ships. And thus is Egypt walled

about on every side. Its length between Pelusium and Siene

is two thousand furlongs, and the passage by sea from Plin-

thine to Pelusium is three thousand six hundred furlongs. Its

river Nile is navigable as far as the city called Elephantine,

the forenamed cataracts hindering ships from going any

farther. The haven also of Alexandria is not entered by the

mariners without difficulty, even in times of peace; for the

passage inward is narrow and full of rocks, that lie under the

water, which oblige the mariners to turn from a straight

direction: its left side is blocked up by works made by men's

hands on both sides; on its right side lies the island called

Pharus, which is situated just before the entrance, and

supports a very great tower that affords the sight of a fire to

1 Here ire have an authentic description of the bounds and circumstances

of Egypt in the days of Vespasian and Titus.

