C. III.] THE ZEALOTS. 89

bringing on of the war, they were the occasions of sedition

and famine therein.

4. There were besides these other robbers that came out of

the country, and came into the city, and joining to them those

that were worse than themselves, omitted no kind of barbarity;

for they did not measure their courage by their rapines and

plundcrings only, but proceeded as far as murdering men;

and this not in the night-time or privately, or with regard to

ordinary men, but did it openly in the day-time, and began

with the most eminent persons in the city: for the first man

they meddled with was Antipas, one of the royal lineage, and

the most potent man in the whole city, insomuch that the

public treasures were committed to his care: him they took

and confined, as they did in the next place to Levias a person

of great note, with Sophas the son of Raguel; both which

were of royal lineage also. And besides these they did the

same to the principal men of the country. This caused a

terrible consternation among the people, and every one con­

tented himself with taking care of his own safety, as they

would do if the city had been taken in war.

5. But these were not satisfied with the bonds into which

they had put the men forementioned; nor did they think it

safe for them to keep them thus in custody long, since they

were men very powerful and had numerous families of their

own that were able to avenge them. Nay, they thought the

very people would, perhaps, be so moved at these unjust pro­

ceedings, as to rise in a body against them : it was, therefore,

resolved to have them slain. Accordingly, they sent one

John, who was the most bloody-minded of them all, to do that

execution : this man was also called the son of Dorcas^ in the

language of our country. Ten more men went along with

him into the prison, with their swords drawn, and so they cut

the throats of those that were in custody there. The grand

1 This name Dorcas in Greek was Tabitha in Hebrew or Syriac, as Acts,

ix. 30. Accordingly, some of the manuscripts set it down here Tabetha, or

Tabcta. Nor can the context in Josephus be made out by supposing tho

reading to have been this, the son of Tabitha, which in the language of our

country denotes Dorcas [or a doe.]

8*

