DISSERTATION III. 519

Chap. IX.] The first of the Romans that conquered the

Jews was Cneius Pompeius, who entered the temple by right

of victory. Thence the report was every where divulged,

that therein was no image of a god, but an empty place, and

mysteries, most secret places that have nothing in them. The

walls of Jerusalem were then destroyed, but the temple con­

tinued still. Soon afterward arose a civil war among us;

and when therein these provinces were reduced under Marcus

Antonius, Pacorus, king of the Parthians, got possession of

Judea, but was himself slain by Paulus Ventidius, and the

Parthians were driven beyond Euphrates; and for the Jews,

Caius Socius subdued them. Antonius gave the kingdom to

Herod; and when Augustus conquered Antonius, ho still

augmented it.

After Herod's death, one Simon, without waiting for the

disposition of Cacsar, took upon him the title of King, who was

brought to punishment by [or under] Quintilius Varus, when

he was president of Syria. Afterward the nation was re­

duced, and the children of Herod governed it in three par­

titions.

Under Tiberius the Jews had rest. After some time they j

were enjoined to place Caius Caesar's statue in the temple ;

but rather than permit that, they took up arms;' which se­

dition was put an end to by the death of Caesar.

Claudius, after the kings were either dead or reduced to

smaller dominions, gave the province of Judea to Roman

knights, or to freedmen, to be governed by them. Among

whom was Antonius Felix, one that exercised all kind of

barbarity and extravagance, as if he had royal authority, but

with the disposition of a slave. He had married Drusilla,

the granddaughter of Antonius, so that Felix was the grand­

daughter's husband, and Claudius the grandson of the same

Antonius.

1 They came to Petronius, the president of Syria, in vast numbers, but

without arms, and as humble supplicants only. See Tacitus presently, where he

afterwards sets this matter almost right, according to Josephus, and by way

of correction, for that account is in his annals, which were written after
this

which is in his histories.

