208 TITUS RESUMES [B. V.

there that does not know how Egypt was overrun with all

sorts of wild beasts, and consumed by all sorts of distempers ?

how their land did not bring forth its fruit ? how the Nilo

failed of water ? how the ten plagues of Egypt followed upon

one another ? and how by those means our fathers were sent

away under a guard, without any bloodshed, and without

running any dangers, because God conducted them as his

peculiar servants 1 Moreover, did not Palestine groan under

the ravages the Assyrians1 made, when they carried away

our sacred ark ? as did their idol Dagon, and as also did that

entire nation of those that carried it away; how they were

smitten with a loathsome distemper in the secret parts of

their bodies, when their very bowels came down together

with what they had eaten, till those hands that stole it away

were obliged to bring it back again, and that with the sound

of cymbals and timbrels, and other oblations, in order to

appease the anger of God for their violation of his holy ark.

It was God who then became our general, and accomplished

these great things for our fathers, and this because they did

not meddle with war and fighting, but committed it to him

to judge about their affairs. When Sennacherib, king of

Assyria, brought along with him all Asia, and encompassed

this city round with his army, did ho fall by the hands of

men ? were not those hands lifted up to God in prayers, with­

out meddling with their arms, when an angel of God destroyed

that prodigious army in one night? when the Assyrian king,

as he arose the next day, found a hundred fourscore and fivo

thousand dead bodies, and when he, with the remainder of

his army fled away from the Hebrews, though they were un­

armed, and did not pursue them. You are also acquainted

1 Note here, that Josephus, in this his same admirable speech, calls the

Syrians, nay, even the Philistines on the most south part of Syria, Assyrians;

which Keland observes as what was common among the ancient writers.

Note also, that Josephus might well put the Jews in mind, as he does here

more than once, of their wonderful and truly miraculous deliverance from

Sennacherib, king of Assyria, while the Roman army, and himself with

them, were now encamped upon and beyond that very spot of ground where

the Assyrian army lay 780 years before, and which retained the very name

of the C'imp of the Assyrians to that very day. See chap. vii. sect. 3, and

chnp. xii. si-ct. 2.

