348 THE SICARII AT ALEXANDRIA. [B. VII.

3. So Ptolemy complied with his proposals, and gave him

a place' one hundred and eighty furlongs distant from Mem­

phis. That Nomos was called the Nomos of Heliopolis, where

Onias built a fortress and a temple not like to that at Jeru­

salem, but such as resembled a tower. He built it of large

stones to the height of sixty cubits: he made the structure

of the altar in imitation of that in our own country, and in

like manner adorned with gifts, excepting the make of the

candlestick; for he did not make a candlestick, but had a

[single] lamp hammered out of a piece of gold, which illu­

minated the place with its rays, and which he hung by a

chain of gold>; but the entire temple was encompassed with

a wall of burnt brick, though it had gates of stone. The

king also gave him a large country for a revenue in money,

that both the priests might have a plentiful provision made

for them, and that God might have great abundance of what

things were necessary for his worship. Yet did not Onias

do this out of a sober disposition, but he had a mind to con­

tend with the Jews at Jerusalem, and could not forget the

indignation he had for being banished thence. Accordingly,

he thought that, by building this temple, he should draw away

a great number from them to himself. There had been also

a certain ancient prediction made by [a prophet,] whose

name was Isaiah, about six hundred years before, that this

temple should be built by a man that was a Jew in Egypt.2

And this is the history of the building of that temple.

4. And now Lupus, the governor of Alexandria, upon the

receipt of Caesar's letter, came to the temple, and carried out

of it some of the donations dedicated thereto, and shut up

the temple itself. And as Lupus died a little afterward,

Paulinus succeeded him. This man left none of those dona­

1 We must observe, that Josephus here speaks of Antiochus, who profaned

the temple, as now alive, when Onias had leave given him by Philometer to

build his temple; whereas it seems not to have been actually built till about

fifteen years afterwards. Vet because it is said in the Antiquities, that
Onias

went to Philometer, B. xii. ch. ix. sect. 7, during the lifetime of that
Antio­

chus, it is probable he petitioned, and, perhaps, obtained his leave then,

though it wcro not actually built or finished till fifteen ycars afterward.

2 Isa. xix. 18-23.

