C. IV.] TO THE JEWS. 279

connected the upper city to the temple. This bridge it was

that lay between the tyrants and Caesar, and parted them;

while the multitude stood on each side; those of the Jewish

nation about Simon and John, with great hopes of pardon,

and the Romans about Caesar, in great expectation how Titus

would receive their supplication. So Titus charged his sol­

diers to restrain their rage, and to let their darts alone, and

appointed an interpreter between them, which was a sign that

he was the conqueror, and first began the discourse, and said,

— "I hope you, sirs, are now satiated with the miseries of

your country, who have not had any just notions either of

our great power or of your own great weakness, but have,

like madmen, after a violent and inconsiderate manner, made

such attempts as have brought your people, your city, and

your holy house to destruction. You have been the men that

have never left off rebelling since Pompey first conquered

you, and have since that time made open war with the Ro­

mans. Have you depended on your multitude, while a very

small part of the Roman soldiery have been strong enough

for you ? Have you relied on the fidelity of your confederates?

And what nations are there, out of the limits of our dominion,

that would choose to assist the Jews before the Romans ? Are

your bodies stronger than ours ? Nay, you know that the

[strong] Germans themselves are our servants. Have you

stronger walls than we have ? Pray, what greater obstacle

is there than the wall of the ocean, with which the Britons

are encompassed, and yet do adore the arms of the Romans.

Do you exceed us in courage of soul and in the sagacity of

your commanders ? Nay, indeed, you cannot but know that

the very Carthaginians have been conquered by us. It can,

therefore, be nothing certainly but the kindness of the Ro­

mans which hath excited you against us; who, in the first

place, have given you this land to possess; and, in the next

place, have set over you kings of your own nation ; and, in

the third place, have preserved the laws of your forefathers

to you, and have withal permitted you to live either by your­

selves or among others, as it should please you; and, what is

our chief favor of all, we have given you leave to gather up

