284 TAKING* OF THE LOWER CITY. [B. VI.

off all their effects, and were retired into the upper city; for

they did not yet at all repent of the mischiefs they had done,

but were insolent as if tbey had done well; for as they saw

the city on fire, they appeared cheerful, and put on joyful

countenances, in expectation, as they said, of death to end

their miseries. Accordingly, as the people were now slain,

the holy house was burnt down, and the city was on fire,

there was nothing farther left for the enemy to do. Yet did

not Joscphus grow weary, even in this utmost extremity, to

beg of them to spare what was left of the city: he spake

largely to them about their barbarity and impiety, and gave

them his advice in order to their escape, though he gained

nothing thereby more than to be laughed at by them; and

as they could not think of surrendering themselves up, be­

cause of the oath they had taken, nor were strong enough to

fight with the Romans any longer upon the square, as being

surrounded on all sides, and a kind of prisoners already, yet

were they so accustomed to kill people, that they could not

restrain their right hands from acting accordingly. So they

dispersed themselves before the city, and laid themselves in

ambush among its ruins, to catch those that attempted to

desert to the Romans; accordingly many such deserters were

caught by them, and were all slain; for these were too weak,

by reason of their want of food, to fly away from them ; so

their dead bodies were thrown to the dogs. Now, every

other sort of death was thought more tolerable than the

famine, insomuch that though the Jews despaired now of

mercy, yet would they fly to the Romans, and would them­

selves, even of their own accord, fall among the murderous

rebels also. Nor was there any place in the city that had no

dead bodies in it, but was entirely covered with those that

were killed either by the famine or the rebellion ; and all was

full of the dead bodies of such as hail perished either by that

sedition or by that famine.

3. So now the last hope which supported the tyrants and

that crew of robbers which were with them, was in the caves

and caverns under ground, whither if they could once fly,

they did not expect to be searched for, but endeavored, that

