C. IX.] VESPASIAN. 59

6. But as the truth came out in time, it appeared how the

affairs of Jotapata really stood; yet was it found that the

death of Josephus was a fiction; and when they understood

that he was alive, and was among the Romans, and that the

commanders treated him at another rate than they treated

captives, they were as vehemently angry at him now as they

had showed their good-will before, when he appeared to have

been dead. He was also abused by some as having been a

coward, and by others as a deserter: and the city was full

of indignation at him, and of reproaches cast upon him;

their rage was also aggravated by their afnictions, and more

inflamed by their ill success; and what usually becomes an

occasion of caution to wise men, I mean affliction, became a

spur to them to venture farther on calamities, and the end

of one misery became still the beginning of another; they,

therefore, resolved to fall on the Romans the more vehe­

mently, as resolving to be revenged on him in revenging

themselves on the Romans. And this was the state of Jeru­

salem as to the troubles which now came upon it.

7. But Vespasian, in order to see the kingdom of Agrippa,

while the king persuaded him himself so to do (partly in or­

der to his treating the general and his army in the best and

most splendid manner his private affairs would enable him to

do, and partly that he might, by their means, correct such

things as were amiss in his government,) he removed from

that Ccesarea which was by the sea-side, and went to that

which is called Csesarea Philippi;1 and there he refreshed

his army for twenty days, and was himself feasted by king

Agrippa, where he also returned public thanks to God for the

good success he had in his undertakings. But as soon as he

was informed that Tiberias was fond of innovations, and that

Taricheae had revolted, both which cities were parts of the

kingdom of Agrippa, and was satisfied within himself that

the Jews were every where perverted [from their obedience

to their governors,] he thought it seasonable to make an ex­

1 Of this Caesarea Philippi (twice mentioned in our New Testament, Mat­

thew, xiT. 13; Mark, viii. 27, there are coins still extant, as Spanheim hero

informs us.

