242 THE ROMANS ASSAULT [B. VI.

thrown down is easily to be ascended, and for the new-built

wall it is easily destroyed. Do you, therefore, many of you,

pull up your courage, and set about this work, and do you

mutually encourage and assist one another; and this your

bravery will soon break the hearts of your enemies ; and, per­

haps, such a glorious undertaking as yours is may be accom­

plished without bloodshed. For although it be justly to bo

supposed that the Jews will try to hinder you, at your first

beginning, to go up to them, yet when you have once con­

cealed yourselves from them, and driven them away by force,

they will not be able to sustain your efforts against them any

longer, though but a few of you prevent them, and get over

the wall. As for that person who first mounts the wall, I

should blush for shame if I did not make him to be envied

of others, by those rewards I would bestow upon him. If such

a one escape with his life, he shall have the command of others

that are now but his equals, although it be true, also, that the

greatest rewards' will accrue to such as die in the attempt."

6. Upon this speech of Titus, the rest of the multitude were

affrighted at so great a danger. But there was one whose

name was Sabinus, a soldier that served among the cohorts,

and a Syrian by birth, who appeared to be of very great for­

titude, both in the actions he had done and the courage of his

soul he had showed; although any body would have thought,

before he came to his work, that he was of such a weak con­

stitution of body, that he was not fit to bo a soldier; for his

color was black, his flesh was lean and thin, and lay close to­

gether; but there was a certain heroic soul that dwelt iu this

small body, which body was, indeed, much too narrow for that

peculiar courage which was in him. Accordingly, he was the

first that rose up, when he thus spake : — "I readily surren­

der up myself to thee, O Caesar! I first ascend the wall, and

I heartily wish that my fortune may follow my courage and

my resolution. And if some ill fortune grudge mo the success

of my undertaking, take notice that my ill success will not be

unexpected, but that I choose death voluntarily for thy sake."

"When he had said this, and spread out his shield over his

'See note on preceding page.

