46 VESPASIAN. [b. in.

noise, at the hour that had been told them, to the wall; and

it was Titus himself that first got upon it, with one of his tri­

bunes, Domitius Sabinus, and had a few of the fifteenth legion

along with him. So they cut the throats of the watch, and

entered the city very quietly. After these came Cercalis the

tribune, and Placidus, and led on those that were under them.

Now when the citadel was taken, and the enemy were in the

very midst of the city, and when it was already day, yet was

not the taking of the city known by those that held it, for a

great many of them were fast asleep, and a great mist, which

then by chance fell upon the city, hindered those that got up

from distinctly seeing the case they were in, till the whole

Roman army was gotten in, and they were raised up only to

find the miseries they were under; and as they were slaying,

they perceived the city was taken. And for the Romans, they

so well remembered what they had suffered during the siege,

that they spared none, nor pitied any, but drove the people

down the precipice from the citadel, and slew them as they

drove them down; at which time the difficulties of the place

hindered those that were still able to fight from defending

themselves; for as they were distressed in the narrow streets,

and could not keep their feet sure along the precipice, they

were overpowered with the crowd of those that came fighting

them down from the citadel. This provoked a great many,

even of those chosen men that were about Josephus, to kill

themselves with their own hands; for when they saw that thev

could kill none of the Romans, they resolved to prevent being

killed by the Romans, and got together in great numbers in

the utmost parts of the city, and killed themselves.

35. However, such of the watch as at the first perceived

they were taken, and ran away as fast as they could, went up

into one of the towers on the north side of the city, and for

a while defended themselves there; but as they were encom­

passed with a multitude of enemies, they tried to use their

right hands when it was too late, and at length cheerfully

offered their necks to be cut off by those that stood over them.

And the Romans might have boasted that the conclusion of

that siege was without blood [on their side,] if there had not

