266 THE ROMANS FIRE [B. VI.

sudden, and caught hold of the cloisters. Upon the Jews

seeing this fire all about them, their spirits sunk, together

with their bodies, and they were under such astonishment

that not one of them made any haste either to defend him足

self or to quench the fire, but they stood as mute spectators

of it only. However, they did not so grieve at the loss of

what was now burning as to grow wiser thereby for the time

to come; but, as though the holy house itself had been on fire

already, they whetted their passions against the Romans.

This fire prevailed during that day and the next also; for the

soldiers were not able to burn all the cloisters that were

round about together at one time, but only by pieces.

3. But then, on the next day, Titus commanded part of

his army to quench the fire, and to make a road for the more

easy marching up of the legions, while he himself gathered

the commanders together. Of those there were assembled

the six principal persons, Tiberius Alexander, the commander

[under the general] of the whole army, with Sextus Cercalis,

the commander of the fifth legion, and Larcius Lepidus the

commander of the tenth legion, and Titus Frigius, the com足

mander of the fifteenth legion; there was also with them

Eternius, the leader of the two legions that came from Alex足

andria, and Marcus Antonius Julianus, procurator of Judca ;

after these came together also the rest of the procurators and

tribunes. Titus proposed to these, that they should give

him their advice what should be done about the holy house.

Now some of these thought " it would be the best way to act

according to the rules of war [and demolish it,] because tho

Jews would never leave off rebelling while that house was

standing, at which house it was that they used to get all to足

gether." Others of them were of opinion, that "in case the

Jews would leave it, and none of them would lay their arms

up in it, he might save it; but that in case they got upon it,

and fought any more, he might burn it; because it must then

be looked upon not as a holy house, but as a citadel; and

that the impiety of burning it would then belong to those

that forced this to be done, and not to them." But Tit'as

said, that "although the Jews should get upon that holy

