226 THE FAMINE, [B. V,

3. So all hope of escaping was now cut off from the Jews,

together with their liberty of going out of the city. Then

did the famine widen its progress, and devoured the people

by whole houses and families; the upper rooms were full of

women and children that were dying by famine, and the lanes

of the city were full of the dead bodies of the aged; the

children also and the young men wandered about the market­

places like shadows, all swelled with the famine, and fell down

dead, wheresoever their misery seized them. As for burying

them, those that were sick themselves were not able to do it,

and those that were hearty and well were deterred from doing

it by the great multitude of those dead bodies, and by the

uncertainty there was how soon they should die themselves;

for many died as they were burying others, and many went

to their coffins before that fatal hour was come. Nor was

there any lamentations made under these calamities, nor were

heard any mournful complaints; but the famine confounded

all natural passions; for those that were just going to die

looked upon those that were gone to their rest before them

with dry eyes and open mouths. A deep silence also, and a

kind of deadly night, had seized upon the city; while yet the

robbers were still more terrible than these miseries were them­

selves ; for they brake open those houses which were no other

than graves of dead bodies, and plundered them of what they

had, and carrying off the coverings of their bodies, went out

laughing, and tried the points of their swords in their dead

bodies ; and in order to prove what metal they were made of,

they thrust some of those through that still lay alive upon the

ground ; but for those that entreated them to lend them their

right hand and their sword to dispatch them, they were too

proud to grant their requests, and left them to be consumed

by the famine. Now every one of these died with their eyes

fixed upon the temple, and left the seditious alive behind

them. Now the seditious at first gave orders that the dead

should be buried out of the public treasury, as not enduring

the stench of their dead bodies. But afterwards, when they

could not do that, they had them cast down from the walls

into the valleys beneath.

