528 DISSERTATION III.

Chap. XIII.] Such prodigies' had happened as this nation,

-which is superstitious enough in its own way, would not agree  
to expiate by the ceremonies of the Roman religion, nor

would they atone to the gods by sacrifices and vows, as these

used to do on the like occasions. Armies were seen to fight

in the sky, and their armor looked of a bright red color,

and the temple shone with sudden flashes of fire out of the

clouds. The doors of the temple were opened on a sudden,

and a voice greater than human was heard, that the gods

were retiring; and at the same time was there a great motion

perceived, as if they were going out of it, which some esteemed

to be causes of terror. The greater part had a firm belief

that it was contained in the old sacerdotal books, that at this

very time the cast would prevail, and that some that came

out of Judea should obtain the empire of the world, which

ebscure oracle foretold Vespasian and Titus; but the gene足

rality of the common people, as usual, indulged their own

inclinations, and when they had once interpreted all to fore足

bode grandeur to themselves, adversity itself could not per足

suade them to change their minds, though it were from false足

hood to truth.5

We have been informed that the number of the besieged,

of every age, and of both sexes, male and female, was six

hundred thousand.3 There were weapons for all that could

carry them, and more than could be expected, for their

number were bold enough to do so. The men and the

women were equally obstinate; and when they supposed

they were to be carried captive, they were more afraid of

life than of death.

Against this city and nation Titus Caesar resolved to fight,

1 These prodigies, and more, arc at large in Joscphus, Antiq. b. vi. chap.

v. sect. 3.

2 This interpretation and reflections are in Josephus, Antiq. b. vi. chap,

v. seet. 4.

8 The number 000,000 for the besieged is nowhere in Josephus, but is there

for the poor buried at the publio charge, Antiq. b. v. chap. xiii. sect. 7,

which might be about the number of the besieged under Cestius Gallus,

though they were many more afterward at Titus's siege, as Joscphus

implies, Antiq. b. vi. ch. ix. sect. 3.

