362 FLAVIUSJOSEPHUS [B. I.

of their letters, both for the common affairs of life, and for

the delivering down the history of common transactions, I

think I may omit any proof, because all men allow it so to be.

But now as to our forefathers, that they took no less care

about writing such records (for I will not say they took greater

care than the others I spoke of,) and that they committed that

matter to their high-priests and to their prophets, and that

these records have been written all along down to our own

times with the utmost accuracy; nay if it be not too bold for

me to say it, our history will be so written hereafter; I shall

endeavor briefly to inform you.

7. For our forefathers did not only appoint the best of these

priests, and those that attended upon the divine worship, for

that design from the beginning, but made provision that the

stock of the priests should continue unmixed and pure; for

he who is partaker of the priesthood must propagate of a wife

of the same nation, without having any regard to money, or

any other dignities. But he is to make a scrutiny, and to

take his wife's genealogy from the ancient tables,1 and pro足

cure many witnesses to it. And this is our practice not only

in Judea, but wheresoever any body of men of our nation do

live; and even there an exact catalogue of our priests' mar足

riages is kept; I mean at Egypt and Babylon, or in any other

place of the rest of the habitable earth, whithersoever our

priests are scattered ; for they send to Jerusalem the ancient

names of their parents in writing, as well as those of their re足

moter ancestors, and signify who are the witnesses also. But

if any war falls out, such as have fallen out a great many of

them already, when Antiochus Epiphanes made an invasion

upon our country, as also when Pompey tlie Great and Quin-

tilius Varus did so also, and principally in the wars that have

happened in our own times, those priests that survive them

compose new tables of genealogy out of the old records, and

examine the circumstances of the women that remain; for

still they do not admit of those that have been captives, as

1 Of this accuracy, of the Jews before and in our Savior-s time, in carefully

preserving their genealogies all ulong, particularly those of the priests, see

Juscphus's Life, sect. 1. This accuracy seems to have ended at the destruc足

tion of Jerusalem by Titus, or, however, at that by Adrian.

