366 - FiAVins josEPnns [u. i.

those deserve to be esteemed, that undertake to contradict

me about the true state of those affairs ? who, although they

pretend to have made use of both the emperor's own memoirs,

vet could not they be acquainted with our affairs who fought

against them.

11. This digression I have been obliged to make out of

necessity, as being desirous to expose the vanity of those that

profess to write histories; and I suppose I have sufficiently

declared, that this custom of transmitting down the histories

of ancient times hath been better preserved by those nations

which arc called barbarians, than by the Greeks themselves.

I am now willing in the next place, to say a few things to

those that endeavor to prove that our constitution is but of

late time, for this reason, as they pretend, that the Greek

writers have said nothing about us; after which I shall pro­

duce testimonies for our antiquity out of the writings of

foreigners; I shall also demonstrate, that such as cast re­

proaches upon our nation do it very unjustly.

12. As for ourselves, therefore, we neither inhabit a mari­

time country, nor do we delight in merchandise, nor in such

a mixture with other men as arises from it; but the cities we

dwell in are remote from the sea; and having a fruitful coun­

try for our habitation, we take pains in cultivating that only.

Our principal care of all is this, to educate our children well;

and we think it to be the most necessary business of our whole

life to observe the laws that have been given us, and to keep

those rules of piety that have been delivered down to us.

Since, therefore, besides what we have already taken notice

of, wc have had a peculiar way of living of our own, there

was no occasion offered us in ancient ages, for intermixing

among the Greeks, as they had for mixing among the Egyp­

tians, by their intercourse of exporting and importing their

several goods; as they also mixed with the Phoenicians, who

lived by the sea-side, by means of their love of lucre in trade

and merchandise. Nor did our forefathers betake themselves,

as did some others, to robbery; nor did they in order to gain

more wealth, fall into foreign wars, although our country

contained many ten thousands of men of courage sufficient

