B. II.] AGAINST APION. 407

BOOK II.

§ 1. In the former book, most honored Epaphrcditus, I

have demonstrated our antiquity, and confirmed the truth of

what I have said from the writings of the Phoenicians, and

Chaldeans, and Egyptians. I have, moreover, produced

many of the Grecian writers as witnesses thereto. I have

also made a refutation of Manetho and Cheremon, and of

certain others of our enemies. I shall now,1 therefore, begin

a confutation of the remaining authors who have written any

thing against us; although I confess I have had a doubt upon *

me about Apion2 the grammarian, whether I ought to take

the trouble of confuting him or not; for some of his writings

contain much the same accusations which the others have

laid against us; some things that he hath added are very

frigid and contemptible; and for the greatest part of what

he says, it is very scurrilous, and to speak no more than the

plain truth, it shows him to be a very unlearned person; and

what he lays together looks like the work of a man of very

bad morals, and of one no better in his whole life than a

mountebank. Yet because there are a great many men so

very foolish, that they arc rather caught by such orations

than by what is written with care, and take pleasure in re­

proaching other men, and cannot abide to hear them com­

mended, I thought it to be necessary not to let this man go

off without examination, who had written such an accusation

against us, as if ho would bring us to make an answer in

open court: for I also have observed, that many men are

very much delighted, when they see a man who first began

to reproach another, to be himself exposed to contempt on

account of the vices he hath himself been guilty of. How-

1 The former part of this second book is written against the calumnies of

Apion, Mid then, more briefly, against the like calumnies of Apollonius

Molo. But after that, Josephus leaves off any more particular reply to

those adversaries of the Jews, and gives us a large and excellent description

and vindication of that theocracy which was settled for the Jewish nation,

by Moses, their great legislator.

8 Called by Tiberius, Cymbalum Mundi, The drum of the world.

