440 FLAVIUSJOSEPHUS [B. II.

preserve it. Now the law has appointed several purifications

at our sacrifices, whereby wo are cleansed after a funeral,

after what sometimes happens to us in bed, and after ac­

companying with our wives, and upon many other occasions

which it would be too long now to set down. And this is our

doctrine concerning God and his worship, and is the same that

the law appoints for our practice.

25. But, then, what are our laws about marriage ? That

law owns no other mixtures of sexes but that which nature

hath appointed, of a man with his wife, and that this be used

only for the procreation of children. But it abhors the mix­

ture of a male with a male: and if any one do that, death is

its punishment. It commands us also, when we marry, not

to have regard to a portion, nor to take a woman by violence,

nor to persuade her deceitfully and knavishly, but to demand

her in marriage of him who hath power to dispose of her, and

is fit to give her away by the nearness of his kindred; for,

says the Scripture, A woman is inferior to her husband in

all things.1 Let her, therefore, be obedient to him : not so,

that he should abuse her, but that she may acknowledge her

duty to her husband : for God hath given the authority to the

husband. A husband, therefore, is to lie only with his wife

whom he hath married ; but to have to do with another man's

wife is a wicked thing, which, if any one ventures upon, death

is inevitably his punishment: no more can he avoid the same

who forces a virgin betrothed to another man, or entices

another man's wife. The law, moreover, enjoins us to brin;;

up all our offspring, and forbids women to cause abortion of

what is begotten, or to destroy it afterward : and if any woman

appears to have so done, she will be a murderer of her child,

by destroying a living creature, and diminishing human kind ;

if any one, therefore, proceeds to such fornication or murder,

he cannot be clean. Moreover, the law enjoins, that after

the man and wife have lain together, in a regular way, they

shall bathe themselves; for there is defilement contracted

thereby, both in soul and body, as if they had gone into

another country; for, indeed, the soul by being united to the

1 This text is nowhere in our present copies of the Oil Testament.

