342 eleazar's speeches. [b. vil

die,1 as well as those were whom we have begotten ; nor is it

in the power of the most happy of our race to avoid it. But

for abuses and slavery, and the sight of our wives led away

after an ignominious manner, with their children, these are

not such evils as are natural and necessary among men ; al­

though such as do not prefer death before those miseries,

when it is in their power so to do, must undergo even them

on account of their own cowardice. We revolted from the

Romans with great pretensions to courage; and when at the

very last they invited us to preserve ourselves, we would not

comply with them. Who will not, therefore, believe that they

will certainly be in a rage at us, in case they can take us

alive ? Miserable will then be the young men who will be

strong enough in their bodies to sustain many torments;

miserable also will be those of elder years, who will not be

able to bear those calamities which young men might sustain.

One man will be obliged to hear the voice of his son im­

ploring help of his father, when his hands are bound. But

certainly our hands are still at liberty, and have a sword in

them; let them, then, be subservient to us in our glorious de­

sign ; let us die before we become slaves under our enemies,

and let us go out of the world, together with our children and

our wives, in a state of freedom. This is it that our laws

command us to do; this it is that our wives and children

crave at our hands; nay, God himself hath brought this ne­

cessity upon us ; while the Romans desire the contrary, and

are afraid lest any of us should die before we are taken. Let

us, therefore, make haste, and, instead of affording them so

much pleasure as they hope for in getting us under their

power, let us leave them an example which shall at once

cause their astonishment at our death, and their admiration

of our hardiness therein."

1 Reland here seta down a parallel aphorism of one of the Jcwith Rabbins,

— " We are born, that we may die, and die that we may live."

