C. VII.J VESPASIAN. 33

away by force, he should be put into custody. His commis­

eration also of the people under their lamentations had much

broken that his eagerness to leave them; so he resolved to

stay, and arming himself with the common despair of the citi­

zens, he said to them, — " Now is the time to begin to fight

in earnest, when there is no hope of deliverance left. It is a

brave thing to prefer glory before life, and to set about some

such noble undertaking as may be remembered by late pos­

terity." Having said this, ho fell to work immediately, and

made a sally, and dispersed the enemies' out-guards, and ran

as far as the Roman camp itself, and pulled the coverings of

their tents to pieces, that were upon their banks, and set fire

to their works. And this was the manner in which he never

left off fighting, neither the next day nor that after it, but went

on with it for a considerable number both of days and nights.

18. Upon this Vespasian, when he saw the Romans dis­

tressed by these sallies (though they were ashamed to be made

to run away by the Jews, and when at any time they made

the Jews run away, their heavy armor would not let them

pursue them far, while the Jews, when they had performed

any action, and before they could be hurt themselves, still

retired into the city,) ordered his armed men to avoid their

onsets, and not fight it out with men under desperation, while

nothing is more courageous than despair; but that their vio­

lence would be quenched when they saw they failed of their

purposes, as fire is quenched when it wants fuel; and that

it was proper for the Romans to gain their victories as

cheap as they could, since they were not forced to fight, but

only to enlarge their own dominions. So he repelled the Jews

in great measure by the Arabian archers and the Syrian

slingers, and by those that threw stones at them; nor was

there any intermission of the great number of their offensive

engines. Now the Jews suffered greatly by these engines,

without being able to escape from them, and when these en­

gines threw their stones or javelins a great way, and the Jews

were within reach, they pressed hard upon the Romans, and

fought desperately, without sparing either soul or body, one

part succoring another by turns, when it was tired down.

