380 FLATIUS JOSEPHUS [B. 1.

very troublesome lo him, and cost him a great deal of pains

to take it. He then marched away to Borsippus, to besiege

Nabonnedus; but as Nabonnedus did not sustain the siege,

but delivered himself into his hands, he was at first kindly

used by Cyrus, who gave him Carmania as a place for him to

inhabit in, but sent him out of Babylonia. Accordingly,

Nabonnedus spent the rest of his time in that country, and

there died."

21. These accounts agree with the true history in our books:

for in them it is written that Nebuchadnezzar, in the eigh­

teenth ' year of his reign, laid our temple desolate, and so it

lay in that state of obscurity for fifty years; but that, in the

second year of the reign of Cyrus, its foundatians were laid,

and it was finished again in the second2 year of Darius. I

will now add the records of the Phoenicians; for it will not be

superfluous to give the reader demonstrations more than enow

on this occasion. In them we have this enumeration of tho

times of their several kings. — " Nabuchodonosor besieged

Tyre for thirteen years in the days of IthobaJ, their king;

after him reigned Baal ten years ; after him were judges ap­

pointed, who judged the people. Ecnibalus, the son of Bas-

lacus, two months; Chelbes, the son of Abdeus, ten months;

Abbar, the high-priest, three months ; Mitgonus and Gcras-

tratus, the sons of Abdelemus, were judges six years; after

whom Balatorus reigned one year; after his death, they sent

and fetched Merbalus from Babylon, who reigned four years:

after his death they sent for his biother Hirom, who reigned

twenty years. Under his reign Cyrus became king of Persia."

So that the whole interval is fifty-four years besides three

months; for on the seventh year of the reign of Nebuchad­

1 This number in Josephus, that Nebuchadnezzar destroyed the temple in

the 18th year of his reign, is a mistake in the nicety of chronology: for it

yi:\s in the 19th.

2 The true number here for the year of Darius, on which the second templo

was finished, whether the 2d with our present copies, or the 0th with that

of Syncellus, or the tenth with that of Eusebius, is very uncertain: so we

had best follow Josephus's own account elsewhere, Antiq. B. xi. ch. iii. sect.

4, which shows us that, according to his copy of the Old Testament, after the

second of Cyrus, that work was interrupted till the 2d of Darius, when in

ecven years it was finished, on the 9th of Darius.

