100 THE IDUMEANS [B. IV.

upon the actors: that the friends and kindred of those that

had been destroyed would always be laying plots against them;

and that a large body of people were very angry on account

of their gross breaches of their laws and [illegal] judicatures,

insomuch that although some part might commiserate them,

those would be quite overborne by the majority."

CHAPTER IV.

THE IDUMEANS, BEING SENT FOR BY THE ZEALOTS, CAME IM­

MEDIATELY TO JERUSALEM; AND WHEN THEY WERE EX­

CLUDED OUT OF THE CITY, THEY LAY ALL NIGHT THERE.

JESUS, ONE OF THE HIGH-PRIESTS, MAKES A SPEECH TO

THEM ; AND SIMON THE IDUMEAN MAKES A REPLY TO IT.

§ 1. Now by this crafty speech John made the zealots

afraid; yet durst he not directly name what foreign assistance

he meant, but in a covert way only intimated at the Idumeans.

But now that he might particularly irritate the leaders of the

zealots, he calumniated Ananus, that he was about a piece of

barbarity, and did in a special manner threaten them. These

leaders were Eleazar the son of Simon, who seemed the most

plausible man of them all, both in considering what was fit to

be done, and in the execution of what ho had determined

upon, and Zacharias the son of Phalek, both of whom derived

their families from the priests. Now when these two men

had heard not only the common threatenings which belonged

to them all, but those peculiarly levelled against themselves,

and, besides, how Ananus and his party, in order to secure

their own dominion, had invited the Romans to come to them,

for that also was part of John's lie, they hesitated a great

while what they should do, considering the shortness of the

time by which they were straitened; because the people were

prepared to attack them very soon, and because the sudden-

ness of the plot laid against them had almost cut off all their

hopes of getting any foreign assistance; for they might be

under the height of their afflictions before any of their con­

federates could be informed of it. However, it was resolved

