C. VI.] FURTHER CRUELTIES. 117

CHAPTER VI.

HOW THE ZEALOTS, WHEN THEY WERE FREED FROM THE IDU-

MEANS, SLEW A GREAT MANY MORE OF THE CITIZENS. AND

HOW VESPASIAN DISSUADED THE ROMANS, WHEN THEY WERE

VERY EARNEST TO MARCH AGAINST THE JEWS, FROM PRO­

CEEDING IN THE WAR AT MAT TIME.

§ 1. The Idumeans complied with these persuasions, and

in the first place, they set those that were in the prisons at

libert}7, being about two thousand of the populace, who there­

upon fled away immediately to Simon, one whom we shall

speak of presently. After which these Idumeans retired from

Jerusalem, and went home, which departure of theirs was a

great surprise to both parties; for the people, not knowing

of their repentance, pulled up their courage for a while, as

eased of so many of their enemies, while the zealots grew more

insolent, not as deserted by their confederates, but as freed

from such men as might hinder their designs, and put some

stop to their wickedness. Accordingly, they made no longer

any delay, nor took any deliberation in their enormous prac­

tices, but made use of the shortest method for all their exe­

cutions ; and what they had once resolved upon, they put in

practice sooner than any one could imagine. But their thirst

was chiefly after the blood of valiant men, and men of good

families; the one sort of which they destroyed out of envy,

the other out of fear, for they thought their whole security

lay in leaving no potent men alive; on which account they

slew Gorion, a person eminent in dignity, and on account of

his family also; he was also for a democracy, and of as great

boldness and freedom of spirit as were any of the Jews who­

soever ; the principal thing that ruined him, added to his

other advantages, was his free speaking. Nor did Niger of

Perea escape their hands : he had been a man of great valor

in their war with the Romans, but was now drawn through

the middle of the city; and as he went he frequently cried

out, and showed the scars of his wounds; and when ho was

