278 S P E E C II 0 F T I T 0 S [B. VI.

house,1 there was a boy that, out of the thirst he was in, de­

sired some of the Roman guards to give him their right hands

as a security for his life, and confessed he was very thirsty.

These guards commiserated his age, and the distress he was

in, and gave him their right hands accordingly. So he came

down himself, and drank some water, and filled the vessel he

had with him when he came to them with water, and then

went off, and fled away to his own friends; nor could any of

those guards overtake him; but still they reproached him for

his perfidiousness. To which he made this answer: — "I

have not broken the agreement; for the security I had given

me was not in order to my staying with you, but only in order

to my coming down safely, and taking up some water; both

which things I have performed, and thereupon think myself

to have been faithful to my engagement." Hereupon those

whom the child had imposed upon admired at his cunning,

and that on account of his age. On the fifth day afterward,

the priests that were pined with the famine came down, and

when they were brought to Titus by the guards, they begged

for their lives: but he replied that " the time of pardon was

over as to them; and that this very holy house, on whose

account only they could justly hope to be preserved, was de­

stroyed ; and that it was agreeable to their office that priests

should perish with the house itself to which they belonged."

So he ordered them to be put to death.

2. But as for the tyrants themselves, and those that wero

with them, when they found that they wero encompassed on

every side, and, as it were, walled round without any method

of escaping, they desired to treat with Titus by word of

mouth. Accordingly, such was the kindness of his nature,

and his desire of preserving the city from destruction, and

was joined to the advice of his friends, who now thought the

robbers were come to a temper, that he placed himself on the

western side of the outer [court of the] temple; for there

were gates on that side above the Xystus, and a bridge that

1 The Jews of later times agree with Josephus, that there were hiding-

places of secret chambers about the holy house, as Reland here informs us,

where he thinks he h:is found these very walls described in them.

