386 FLAVIUS J0SBPHU3 [B. I.

were with him, and explained to them all the circumstances

of their people; for he had all their habitations and polity

down in writing." Moreover, Hecateus declares again,

" what regard we have for our laws, and that we resolve to

endure any thing rather than transgress them, because we

think it right for us to do so." Whereupon he adds, that

" although they are in a bad reputation among their neigh­

bors, and among all those that come to them, and have been

often treated injuriously by the kings and governors of

Persia, yet can they not be dissuaded from acting but what

they think best; but that when they are stripped on this ac­

count, and have torments inflicted upon them, and they are

brought to the most terrible kinds of death, they meet them

after an extraordinary manner, beyond all other people, and

will not renounce the religion of their forefathers." Hecateus

also produces demonstrations not a few of this their resolute

tenaciousness of their laws, when he speaks thus: — "Alex­

ander was once at Babylon, and had an intention to rebuild

the temple of Belus that was fallen to decay, and, in order

thereto, he commanded all his soldiers in general to bring

earth thither; but the Jews, and they only, would not comply

with that command; nay, they underwent stripes and great

losses of what they had on this account, till the king forgave

them, and permitted them to live in quiet." He adds farther,

that "when the Macedonians came to them into that country,

and demolished the [old] temples and the altars, they assisted

them in demolishing them all,1 but [for not assisting them in

rebuilding them] they either underwent losses, or sometimes

obtained forgiveness." He adds farther, that "these men

deserve to be admired on that account." Ho also speaks of

the mighty populousness of our nation, and says, that " the

Persians formerly carried away many ten thousands of our

people to Babylon, as also, that not a few ten thousands were

removed, after Alexander's death, into Egypt and Phoenicia,

by reason of the sedition that was arisen in Syria." The

same person takes notice in his history, how large the country

is which we inhabit, as well as of its excellent character, and

1 S- " read the text with Havercamp, though the place bo difficult.

