C. VI.] LUCILIUS BASSTJS. 317

what was walled in was itself a very rocky hill, elevated to a

very great height, which circumstance alone made it very

hard to be subdued. It was also so contrived by nature, that

it could not be easily ascended; for it is, as it were, ditched

about with such valleys on all sides, and to such a depth, that

the eye cannot reach their bottoms, and such as are not easily

to be passed over, and even such as it is impossible to fill

up with earth. For that valley which cuts it on the west

extends to three-score furlongs, and did not end till it came

to the lake Asphaltitis; on the same side it was also that

Macherus had the tallest top of its hill elevated above the

rest. But then, for the valleys that lay on the north and

south sides, although they be not so large as that already de­

scribed, yet is it, in like manner, an impracticable thing to

think of getting over them; and for the valley that lies on

the east side, its depth is found to be not less than a hundred

cubits. It extends as far as a mountain that lies over against

Macherus, with which it is bounded.

2. Now when Alexander [Janneus,] the king of the Jews,

observed the nature of this place, he was the first who built

a citadel here, which afterwards was demolished by Gabinius

when he made war against Aristobulus. But when Herod

came to be king, he thought the place to be worthy of tho

utmost regard, and of being built upon in the firmest manner,

and this especially because it lay so near to Arabia; for it

is seated in a convenient place on that account, and hath a

prospect toward that country: he, therefore, surrounded a

large space of ground with walls and towers, and built a city

there, out of which city there was a way that led up to tho

very citadel itself on the top of the mountain: nay, more

than this, he built a wall round that top of the hill, and

erected towers at the corners of a hundred and sixty cubits

high ; in the middle of which place he built a palace after a

magnificent manner, wherein were large and beautiful edifices.

He also made a great many reservoirs for reception of water,

that there might be plenty of it ready for all uses, and those

in the properest places that were afforded him there. Thus

did he, as it were, contend with the nature of the place,

27*

