DISSERTATION I. 479

derful works, and a teacher of men, of such especially as wil­

lingly hear the truth. On this account he drew over to him

many, both of the Jews and Gentiles: he was Christ. But

when Pilate, instigated by the principal men of our nation,

had decreed that he should be crucified, yet did not those that

loved him from the beginning forsake him: and besides, he

appeared to them the third day after his death, alive, as the

divinely-inspired prophets had foretold, that these, and innu­

merable other miracles, should come to pass about him. And

the famous name of Christians, taken from him, as well as

their sect, do still continue in being.

The same Josephus also affirms that John the Baptist, a

true prophet, and on that account one that was had in esteem by

all men, was slain by Herod, the son of Herod the Great, a

little before the death of Christ, in the castle Macherus; not

because he was afraid for himself and his kingdom, as the

same author says, but because he had incestuously married

Herodias, the sister of Agrippa, and the wife of that excellent

person his brother Philip.

About A.J). 1480. Trithemius Abbas de Scriptor. Eccles.

— Josephus the Jew, although he continued to be a Jew, did

frequently commend the Christians; and, in the eighteenth

book of Antiquities, wrote down an eminent testimony con­

cerning our Lord Jesus Christ.

OBSERVATIONS FROM THE FOREGOING EVIDENCE

AND CITATIONS.

I. The style of all these original testimonies belonging to

Josephus is exactly the style of the same Josephus, and espe­

cially the style about those parts of his Antiquities wherein we

find these testimonies. This is denied by nobody as to the other,

concerning John the Baptist, and James the Just, and is now

become equally undeniable as to that concerning Christ.

II. These testimonies, therefore, being confessedly and un­

deniably written by Josephus himself, it is next to impossible

that he should wholly omit some testimony concerning Jesus

