C. V.] AND ROMAN CAMPS. 19

sudden, when there is occasion for making sallies, as they

come hack when they are recalled in crowds also.

4. Now when they are to go out of their camp, the trumpet

gives a sound, at which time nohody lies still, but at the first

intimation they take down their tents, and all is made ready

for their going out; then do the trumpets sound again, to

order them to get ready for the march; then do they lay

their baggage suddenly upon their mules and other beasts of

burden, and stand, as at the place of starting, ready to

march; when also they set fire to their camp; and this they

do because it will be easy for them to erect another camp,

and that it may not ever he of use to their enemies. Then

do the trumpets give a sound the third time, that they are

to go out, in order to excite those that, on any account, are

a little tardy, that so no one may be out of his rank when

the army marches. Then does the crier stand at the gene­

ral's right hand, and ask them thrice in their own tongue,

whether they be now ready to go out to war or not ? To

which they reply as often, with a loud and cheerful voice,

saying, " We are ready." And this they do almost before

the question is asked them: they do this as filled with a kind

of martial fury, and at the same time that they so cry out,

they lift up their right hands also.

5. When, after this, they are gone out of their camp, they

all march without noise, and in a decent manner, and every

one keeps his own rank, as if they were going to war. The

footmen are armed with breast-plates and head-pieces, and

have swords on each side; but the sword which is on their

left side is much longer than the other; for that on the right

side is not longer than a span. Those footmen also that are

chosen out from the rest to be about the general himself have

a lance and a buckler; but the rest of the foot-soldiers have

a spear and a long buckler, besides a saw and a basket, a

pickaxe and an axe, a thong of leather and a hook, with pro­

visions for three days, so that a footman hath no great need

of a mule to carry his burdens. The horsemen have a long

sword on their right sides, and a long pole in their hand; a

shield also lies by them obliquely on one side of their horses,

