C. V.] PRECEDING SIGNS. 275

erablo a nature as to deserve such signals: for, before sun-

setting, chariots and troops of soldiers in their armor were

seen running about among the clouds, and surrounding of

cities. Moreover, at the feast which we call Pentecost, as the

priests were going by night into the inner1 [court of the]

temple, as their custom was, to perform their sacred minis­

trations, they said that in the first place they felt a quaking,

and heard a great noise, and after that they heard a sound as

of a multitude, saying, " Let us remove hence." But what

is still more terrible, there was one Jesus the son of Ananus,

a plebeian and a husbandman, who four years before the war

began, and at that time the city was in very great peace and

prosperity, came to that feast whereon it is our custom for

every one to make tabernacles to God in the temple,2 began,

on a sudden to cry aloud, — "A voice from the east, a voice

from the west, a voice from the four winds, a voice against

Jerusalem and the holy house, a voice against the bridegrooms

and the brides, and a voice against this whole people." This

was his cry, as he went about by day and by night, in all the

lanes of the city. However, certain of the most eminent

among the populace had great indignation at this dire cry of

his, and took up the man, and gave him a great number of

severe stripes: yet did he not cither say any thing for him­

self, or any thing peculiar to those that chastised him, but

still went on with the same words which he cried before.

Hereupon our rulers, supposing, as the case proved to be, that

this was a sort of divine fury in the man, brought him to the

Roman procurator, where he was whipped till his bones were

laid bare : yet did not he make any supplication for himself,

nor shed any tears; but turning his voice to the most lamentable

1 This hero seems to be the court of the priests.

* Both Reland and Havercamp in this place follow after the natural  
punctuation and sense of Josephus, and this contrary to the opinion of Va-

lesius and Dr. Hudson, lest Josephus should say that the Jews built booths

or tents within the temple, at the feast of Tabernacles; which the latter rab­

bins will not allow to have been the ancient practice : but then, since it is

expressly told us in Nchemiah, viii. 10, that in still older times, the Jcwt

made booths in the court of the house of God at that festival, Josephus may
well

be permitted to say the same. And, indeed, the modern rabbins are of very

small authority in all such matters of remote antiquity.

