228 OREAT SLAUGHTERS [B. V.

CHAPTER XIII.

THE GllEAT SLAUGHTERS AND SACRILEGE THAT WERE IN

JERUSALEM.

§ 1. Accordingly Simon would not suffer Matthias, by

whose means he got possession of the city, to go off without

torment. This Matthias was the son of Boethus, and was

one of the high-priests, one that had been very faithful to the

people, and in great esteem with them : he, when the multi­

tude were distressed by the zealots, among whom John was

numbered, persuaded the people to admit this Simon to come

in to assist them, while he had made no terms with him, nor

expected any thing that was evil from him. But when Simon

was come in, and had gotten the city under his power, he

esteemed him that had advised them to admit him as his

enemy equally with the rest, as looking upon that advice as

a piece of his simplicity only: so he had him then brought

before him, and condemned to die for being on the side of tne

Romans, without giving him leave to make his defence. He

condemned also his three sons to die with him; for as to the

fourth, he prevented him by running away to Titus before.

And when he begged for this, that he might he slain before

his sons, and that as a favor, on account that he had procured

the gates of the city to be opened to him, he gave order that

he should be slain the last of them also; so he was not slain

till he had seen his sons slain before his eyes, and that by

being produced over against the Romans; for such a charge

had Simon given to Ananus, the son of Bamadus, who was

the most barbarous of all his guards. He also jested upon

him, and told him, that he might now see whether those to

whom he intended to go over would send him any succors or

not; but still he forbade their dead bodies should be buried.

After the slaughter of these, a certain priest, Ananias, the

son of Masambulus, a person of eminency, as also Aristeus,

the scribe of the sanhedrim, and born at Emmaus, and with

him fifteen men of figure among the people, were slain. They

