344 RESULT OF ELEAZAR'S ADVICE. [B. VII.

bear the grief they were under for what they had done any

longer, and esteeming it an injury to those they had slain to

live even the shortest space of time after them, they presently

laid all they had upon a heap, and set fire to it. They then

chose ten men by lot out of them to slay all the rest; every

one of which laid himself down by his wife and children on

the ground, and threw his arms about them, and they offered

their necks to the stroke of those who by lot executed that

melancholy office : and when these ten had, without fear,

slain them all, they made the same rule for casting lots for

themselves, that he whose lot it was should first kill the other

nine, and after all should kill himself. Accordingly, all these

had courage sufficient to be no way behind one another in

doing or suffering: so, for a conclusion, the nine offered their

necks to the executioner; and he who was the last of all took

a view of all the other bodies, lest perchance some or other

among so many that were slain should want his assistance to

be quite dispatched ; and when he perceived that they were

all slain, he set fire to the palace, and, with the great force

of his hand, ran his sword entirely through himself, and fell

down dead near to his own relations. So these people died

with this intention, that they would not leave so much as one

soul among them alive to be subject to the Romans. Yet

was there an ancient woman, and another who was of kin to

Eleazar, and superior to most women in prudence and learn­

ing, with five children, who had concealed themselves in cav­

erns under ground, and had carried water thither for their

drink, and were hidden there when the rest were intent upon

the slaughter of one another. Those others were nine hun­

dred and sixty in number, the women and children being

withal included in that computation. This calamitous slaughter

was made on the fifteenth day of the month Xanthicus [Ni-

san.]

2. Now for the Romans, they expected that they should

be fought in the morning, when, accordingly, they put on

their armor, and laid bridges of planks upon their ladders

from their banks, to make an assault upon the fortress, which

they did : but saw nobody as an enemy, but a terrible solitude

