C. II.] OF THE JEWS. 255

7. In the mean time, the rest of the Roman army had, in

seven days' time, overthrown [some] foundations of the tower

of Antonia, and had made a ready and broad way to the

temple. Then did the legions come near the first court,1 and

began to raise their banks. The one bank was over against

the north-west corner of the inner temple;2 another was at

that northern edifice which was between the two gates: of

the other two, one was at the western cloister of the outer

court3 of the temple; the other against its northern cloister.

However, these works were thus far advanced by the Ro­

mans, not without great pains and difficulty, and particularly

by being obliged to bring their materials from the distance

of a hundred furlongs. They had farther difficulties also

upon them; sometimes by their overgreat security they were

in that they should overcome the Jewish snares laid for them,

and by that boldness of the Jews which their despair of es­

caping had inspired them withal; for some of their horse­

men, when they went out to gather wood or hay, let their

horses feed, without having their bridles on, during the time

of foraging; upon which horses the Jews sallied out in whole

bodies, and seized them. And when this was continually

done, and Caesar believed, what the truth was, that the

horses were stolen more by the negligence of his own men

than by the valor of the Jews, he determined to use greater

severity to oblige the rest to take care of their horses: so he

commanded that one of those soldiers who had lost their

horses should be capitally punished ; whereby he so terrified

the rest, that they preserved their horses for the time to

come; for they did not any longer let them go from thern to

feed by themselves, but, as if they had grown to them, they

went always along with them when they wanted necessaries.

Thus did the Romans still continue to make war against the

temple, and to raise their banks against it.

8. Now, after one day had been interposed since the

Romans ascended the breach, many of the seditious were so

pressed by the famine upon the present failure of their

ravages, that they got together, and made an attack on those

1 Court of the Gentiles. * Court of Israel. ' Court of the Gentiles.

