DISSERTATION II. 508

" Behold the fire and the wood, hut where is the lamb for a

burnt-offering ? And Abraham said, My son, God will pro­

vide himself a lamb for a burnt-offering." Both these pas­

sages look to me somewhat like such an expectation.

9. However, it appears most evident that Abraham, and I

suppose Isaac also, firmly believed, that if God should permit

Isaac to he actually slain as a sacrifice, he would certainly

and speedily raise him again from the dead. This, to be

sure, is supposed in the words already quoted, that both he

and his son would go and worship, and come again to the

servants; and is clearly and justly collected from this his­

tory by the author to the Hebrews, chap. xi. 17-19. " By

faith Abraham when he was tried offered up Isaac: and he

that had received the promises offered up his only begotten,

of whom it was said, that in Isaac shall thy seed be called,

accounting or reasoning that God was able to raise him from

the dead." And this reasoning was at once very obvious,

and wholly undeniable, that since God was truth itself, and

had over and over promised that he would' " multiply Abra­

ham exceedingly; that he should be a father of many nations;

that his name should be no longer Abram, but Abraham, be­

cause a father of many nations God had made him, &c.; that

Sarai his wife should be called Sarah ; that he would bless

her, and give Abraham a son also of her; and that he would

bless him; and she should become nations, and kings of peo­

ple should be of her, &c.; and that2 "in Isaac should his

seed be called." And since withal it is here supposed that

Isaac was to be slain as a sacrifice, before he was married,

'or had any seed, God was, for certain, obliged by his pro­

mises, in these circumstances, to raise Isaac again from the

dead, and this was an eminent instance of that faith whereby

3 Abraham believed God, and it was imputed to him for

righteousness, viz. that if God should permit Isaac to be sa­

crificed, he would certainly and quickly raise him up again

from the dead, 4from whence also he received him in a figure,

as the author to the Hebrews here justly observes.

1 Gen. xvii. 2-6, 10. » Gen. xxi. 12. • Gen. xv. 6. « Heb. xi. 19.

