476 DISSERTATION I.

demned him to the cross, those that loved hiin at the first

did not forsake him, for he appeared to them alive again tho

third day, as the divine prophets had foretold these, and ten

thousand other wonderful things concerning him. And still

the tribe of Christians, so named from him, are not extinct

at this day. Since, therefore, the writers of the Hebrews had

engraven this testimony concerning our Lord and Saviour in

his own books, what defence can there remain for the un­

believers ?

About A. D. 980. Suidas in voce Jesous.—We have found

Josephus, who hath written about the taking of Jerusalem

(of whom Eusebius Pamphili makes frequent mention in his

ecclesiastical history,) saying openly in his memoirs of the

captivity, that Jesus officiated in the temple with the priests.

This we have found Josephus saying, a man of ancient times,

and not very long after the apostles, &c.

About A. D. 1000. Cedrenus Compend. IIhtor. p. 196.—

Josephus does indeed write concerning John the Baptist as

follows : —Some of the Jews thought that the destruction of

Herod's army came from God, and that he was punished

very justly for what punishment ho had inflicted on John,

that was called the Baptist; for llerod slew him, who was a

good man, and commanded the Jews to exercise virtue, both

by righteousness towards one another, and piety towards

God, and so to come to baptism. But as concerning Christ,

the same Josephus says, that about that time there was Jesus,

a wise man, if it be lawful to call him a man, for he was a

doer of wonderful works, and a teacher of such men as re­

ceive the truth with pleasure, for that Christ drew over many

even from the Gentiles; whom when Herod had crucified,

those who at first had loved him did not leave off to preach

concerning him, for he appeared to them the third day alive

again, as the divine prophets had testified, and spoken these

and other wonderful things concerning him.

About A.D. 1080. Tkeophylact. in Joan. lib. xiii.—The

city of the Jews was taken, and the wrath of God was kin­

dled against them; as also Josephus witnesses, that this came

upon them on account of the death of Jesus.

