C. VIII.] VESPASIAN. 51

the Romans ? Is it death ? If so, what we are afraid of

when we but suspect our enemies will inflict it on us, shall

we inflict it on ourselves for certain ? But, it may be said,

we must be slaves. And are we then in a clear state of

liberty at present ? It may also be said, that it is a manly

act for one to kill himself. No, certainly, but a most unmanly

one; as I should esteem that pilot to be an arrant coward,

who, out of fear of a storm, should sink his ship of his own

accord. Now, self-murder is a crime most remote from the

common nature of all animals, and an instance of impiety

against God our Creator: nor, indeed, is there any animal

that dies by its own contrivance or by its own means, for the

desire of life is a law engraven in them all; on which ac足

count we deem those that openly take it away from us to be

our enemies, and those that do it by treachery are punished

for so doing. And do not you think that God is very angry

when a man does injury to what he hath bestowed on him ?

For from him it is that wo have received our being, and we

ought to leave it to his disposal to take that being away from

us. The bodies of all men are, indeed, mortal, and are

created out of corruptible matter ; but the soul is ever im足

mortal, and is a portion of the divinity that inhabits our

bodies. Besides, if any one destroys or abuses a depositum

he hath received from a mere man, he is esteemed a wicked

and perfidious person; but then if any one cast out of his

body this divine depositum, can we imagine that he who is

thereby affronted does not know of it ? Moreover, our law

justly ordains that slaves which run away from their masters

shall be punished, though the masters they ran away from

may have been wicked masters to them. And shall wo

endeavor to run away from God, who is the best of all

masters, and not think ourselves guilty of impiety ? Do not

you know, that those who depart out of this life according to

the law of nature, and pay that debt which was received from

God, when he that lent it us is pleased to require it back

again, enjoy eternal fame: that their houses and their pos足

terity are sure; that their souls are pure and obedient, and

obtain a most holy place in heaven, from whence, in the revo足

