B. I.] AGAINST APIOS. 3G7

for that purpose. For this reason it was, that the Phoenicians

themselves came soon, by trading and navigation, to bo known

to the Grecians, and by their means the Egyptians became

known to the Grecians also, as did all those people whence

the Phoenicians in long voyages over the seas carried wares

to the Grecians. The Medes also, and the Persians, when

they were lords of Asia, became well known to them; and

this was especially true of the Persians, who led their armies

as far as the other continent [Europe.] The Thracians were

also known to them by the nearness of their countries, and

the Scythians by the means of those that sailed to Pontus;

for it was so in general, that all maritime nations, and those

that inhabited near the eastern or western seas, became most

known to those that were desirous to be writers ; but such as

had their habitations farther from the sea were for the most

part unknown to them: which things appear to have hap­

pened as to Europe also, where the city of Rome, that hath

this long time been possessed of so much power, and hath

performed such great actions in war, is yet never mentioned

by Herodotus, nor by Thucydides, nor by any one of their

contemporaries; and it was very late, and with great diffi­

culty, that the Romans became known to the Greeks. Nay,

those that were reckoned the most exact historians, and

Ephorus for one, was so very ignorant of the Gauls and the

Spaniards, that he supposed the Spaniards who inhabit so

great a part of the western regions of the earth, to be no

more than one city. Those historians also have ventured to

describe such customs as were made use of by them, which

they never had cither done or said ; and the reason why these

writers did not know the truth of their affairs was this, that

they had not any commerce together; but the reason why

they wrote such falsities was this, that they had a mind to

appear to know things which others had not known. How

can it then be any wonder, if our nation was no more known

to many of the Greeks, nor had given them any occasion to

mention them in their writings, while they were so remote

from the sea, and had a conduct of life so peculiar to them­

selves ?

