22 PLACIDU8. [B. III.

timorous souls,) saw that the warriors ran always to those

cities whose walls had been built by Josephus, he marched

furiously against Jotapata, which was of them all the

strongest, as supposing he should easily take it by a sudden

surprise, and that he should thereby obtain great honor to

himself among the commanders, and bring a great advantage

to them in their future campaign ; because, if this strongest

place of them all were once taken, the rest would be so

affrighted as to surrender themselves. But he was mightily

mistaken in his undertaking; for the men of Jotapata were

apprized of his coming to attack them, and came-out of the

city, and expected him there. So they fought the Romans

briskly when they least expected it, being both many in

number, and prepared for fighting, and of great alacrity, as

esteeming their country, their wives, and their children to be

in danger, and easily put the Romans to flight, and wounded

many of them, and slew seven' of them; because their re足

treat was not made in a disorderly manner; because the

strokes only touched the surface of their bodies, which were

covered with their armor in all parts, and because the Jews

did rather throw their weapons upon them from a great dis足

tance, than venture to come hand to hand with them, and

had only light armor on while the others were completely

armed. However, three men of the Jews' side were slain,

and a few wounded; so Placidus, finding himself unable to

assault the city, ran away.

2. But as Vespasian had a great mind to fall upon Galilee,

he marched out of Ptolemais, having put his army into that

order wherein the Romans used to march. He ordered those

1I cannot but here observe an eastern way of speaking, frequent among

them, but not usual among us, where the word only or alone is not set down,

but, perhaps, someway supplied by the pronunciation. Thus Josephus here

says, that those of Jotapata slew seven of the Romans, as they were march足

ing off; because the Romans' retreat was regular, their bodies were covered

over with their armor, and the Jews fought at some distance: his meaning

is clear, that these were the reasons why they slew only, or no more than

seven. I have met with many the like examples in the Scripture in

Josephus, &c, but did not note down the particular places. This obser足

vation ought to be borne in mind upon many occasions.

