496 DISSERTATION II.

David, the son of Abraham,* which highly deserves our ob­

servation in this place: nor can we suppose that any thing

else than clear conviction that this command came from God

could induce so good a man and so tender a father as Abra­

ham was, to sacrifice his own beloved son, and to lose thereby

all the comfort he received from him at present, and all the

expectation he had of a numerous and happy posterity from

him hereafter.

4. That, long before the days of Abraham, the demons or

heathen gods had required and received human sacrifices, and

particularly that of the offerer's own children, and this both

before and after the deluge. This practice had been indeed

so long left off in Egypt, and the custom of sacrificing animals

there was confined to so few kinds in the days of Herodotus,

that he would not believe they had ever offered human sacri­

fices at all, for he says :2 " That the fable, as if Hercules was

sacrificed to Jupiter in Egypt, was feigned by the Greeks, who

were entirely unacquainted with the nature of the Egyptians

and their laws ; for how should they sacrifice men, with whom

it is unlawful to sacrifice any brute beast ? (boars, and bulls,

and pure calves, and ganders, only excepted.") However, it

is evident from Sanchoniatho, Manetho, Pausanias, Diodorus

Sieulus, Philo, Plutarch, and Porphyry, that such sacrifices

were frequent both in Phoenicia and Egypt, and that long

before the days of Abraham, as sir John Marsham and bishop

Cumberland have fully proved; nay, that in other places

(though not in Egypt) this cruel practice continued long after

Abraham, and this till the very third, if not also to the fifth

century of Christianity, before it was quite abolished. Take

the words of the original authors in English, as most of them

occur in their originals, in sir John Marsham's Chronicon,

p. 76-78, 300-304.

"3 Cronus offered up his only begotten son, as a burnt-

offering, to his father Ourauus, when there was a famine and

a pestilence."

"4 Cronus, whom the Phoenicians name Israel [it should

be Il,"\ and who was after his death consecrated into the star

i Matth. i. 1. * Ap. Marsh. Chron. p. 303.

' l'hilo. Bib ex Sanction, p. 76. 4 Philo. Bib. ex Sanchon. p. 77.

