0. VII.] THE ALANS. 325

would not Antiochus, upon this conclusion of the fight, con­

tinue there by any means, but took his wife and his daugh­

ters, and fled away with them to Cilicia, and by so doing,

quite discouraged the minds of his own soldiers. Accordingly

they revolted, and went over to the Romans, out of the des­

pair they were in of his keeping the kingdom ; and his case

was looked upon by all as quite desperate. It was therefore

necessary that Epiphanes and his soldiers should get clear of

their enemies, before they became entirely destitute of any

confederates: nor were there any more than ten horsemen

with him, who passed with him over Euphrates, whence they

went undisturbed to Vologeses, the king of Parthia, where

they were not disregarded as fugitives, but had the same

respect paid them as if they had retained their ancient

prosperity.

3. Now when Antiochus was come to Tarsus, in Cilicia,

Petus ordered a centurion to go to him, and send him in bonds

to Rome. However, Vespasian could not endure to have a

king brought to him in that manner, but thought it fit rather

to have a regard to the ancient friendship that had been be­

tween them, than to preserve an inexorable anger upon the

pretence of this war. Accordingly, he gave orders that they

should take off his bonds while he was still upon the road, and

that he should not come to Rome, but should now go and live

at Lacedemon: he also gave him large revenues, that he

might live not only in plenty, but like a king also. When

Epiphanes, who before was in great fear for his father, was

informed of this, their minds were freed from that great and

almost incurable concern they had been under.- He also

hoped that Caesar would be reconciled to them, upon the in­

tercession of Vologeses ; for although he lived in plenty, ho

knew not how to bear living out of the Roman empire. So

Caesar gave him leave after an obliging manner, and he came

to Rome; and as his father came quickly to him from Lace­

demon, he had all sorts of respects paid him there, and there

he remained.

4. Now there was a nation of the Alans, which we have

IV. — 28

