134 ROMAN AFFAIRS. [B. IV.

going out of the city; for as to such as had a mind to desert,

they were watched by the zealots; and as to such as were not

yet on the side of the Romans, their army kept them in, by

encompassing the city round about on all sides.

2. Now as Vespasian was returned to Caesarca, and was

getting ready with all his army to march directly to Jerusa­

lem, he was informed that Nero was dead, after he had

reigned thirteen years and eight days; but as to any narra­

tion after what manner he abused his power in the government,

and committed the management of affairs to those vile

wretches, Nymphidius and Tigellinus, his unworthy freedmen;

and how he had a plot laid against him by them, and was de­

serted by all his guards, and ran away with four of his most

trusty freedmen, and slew himself in the suburbs of Rome;

and how those that occasioned his death were in no Ions: time

brought themselves to punishment; how also the war in Gall

ended; and how Galba1 was made emperor, and returned out

of Spain to Rome; and how he was accused by the soldiers

as a pusillanimous person, and slain by treachery in the mid­

dle of the market-place at Rome, and Otho was made empe­

ror ; with his expedition against the commanders of Vitcllius,

and his destruction thereupon; and besides what troubles

there were under Vitellius, and the fight that was about the

Capitol; as also, how Antonius Primus and Mucianus slew

Vitellius and his German legions, and thereby put an end to

that civil war, I have omitted to give an exact account of

them, because they are well known by all, and they are de­

scribed by a great number of Greek and Roman authors: yet

for the sake of the connexion of matters, and that my history

may not be incoherent, I have just touched upon every thing

briefly. Wherefore Vespasian put off at first his expedition

against Jerusalem, and stood waiting whither the empire

would be transferred after the death of Nero. Moreover,

1 Of these Roman affairs and tumults under Gnlba, Otto, and Vitellius,

here only touched upon by Josephus, see Tacitus, Suetonius, and Dio, more

largely. However, we may observe Vfith Ottius, that Josephus writes the

name of the second of them not Otto, with many others, but Otho, with tha

coins. Sec also the note on ch. xi. sect. 4.

