324 ANTIOCIIUS, KING OF COMMAOENE. [B. VH.

care about the matter, since this discovery was made; for the

neighborhood of the kingdoms made this affair worthy of a

greater regard: for Samosata, the capital of Commagene, lies

upon Euphrates, and upon any such design could afford an

easy passage over it to the Parthians, and could also afford

them a secure reception. Petus was, accordingly, believed,

and had authority given him of doing what he should think

proper in the case; so he set about it without delay, and fell

upon Commagene before Antiochus and his people had the

least expectation of his coming: he had with him the tenth

legion, as also some cohorts and troops of horsemen. These

kings also came to his assistance, Aristobulus, king of the

country called Chaleidene, and Sohemus, who was called king

of Emesa. Nor was there any opposition made to his forces

when they entered the kingdom; for no one of that country

would so much as lift up his hand against them. When An­

tiochus heard this unexpected news, he could not think in the

least of making war with the Romans, but determined to leave

his whole kingdom in the state wherein it now was, and to

retire privately, with his wife and children, as thinking thereby

to demonstrate himself to the Romans to be innocent as to

the accusation laid against him. So he went away from that

city as far as a hundred and twenty furlongs, into a plain,

and there pitched his tents.

2. Petus then sent some of his men to seize upon Samosata,

and by their means took possession of that city, while he went

himself to attack Antiochus with the rest of his army. How­

ever, the king was not prevailed upon by the distress he was

in to do any thing in the way of war against the Romans, but

bemoaned his own hard fate, and endured with patience what

he was not able to prevent. But his sons, who were young

and unexperienced in war, but of strong bodies, were not

easily induced to bear this calamity without fighting. Epi-

phanes, therefore, and Callinicus, betook themselves to mili­

tary force: and as the battle was a sore one, and lasted all

the day long, they showed their own valor in a remarkable

manner, and nothing but the approach of night put a period

thereto, aud that without any diminution of their forces: yet

