C. VII.] VESPASIAN. 43

be destroyed by their bloody enemies; for they fell upon the

gates in great crowds, and earnestly calling to those that

kept them, and that by their names also, yet had they their

throats cut in the very midst of their supplications; for the

enemy shut the gates of the first wall, and their own citizens

shut the gates of the second, so they were enclosed between

two walls, and were slain in great numbers together: many

of them were run through by swords of their own men, and

many by their own swords, besides an immense number that

was slain by the Romans. Nor had they any courage to re­

venge themselves; for there was added to the consternation

they were in from the enemy, their being betrayed by their

own friends, which quite broke their spirits; and at last they

died, cursing not the Romans, but their own citizens, till they

were all destroyed, being in number twelve thousand. So

Trajan gathered that the city was empty of people that could

fight, and, although there should a few of them be therein, he

supposed that they, would be too timorous to venture upon

any opposition; so he reserved the taking of the city to the

general. Accordingly, he sent messengers to Vespasian, and

desired him to send his son Titus to finish the victory he had

gained. Vespasian hereupon imagining there might be some

pains still necessary, sent his son with an army of five hun­

dred horsemen, and one thousand footmen. So he came

quickly to the city, and put his army in order, and set Trajan

over the left wing, while he had the right himself, and led

them to the siege; and when the soldiers brought ladders to

be laid against the wall on every side, the Galileans opposed

them from above for a while, but soon afterward they left

the walls. Then did Titus's men leap into the city, and

seized upon it presently; but when those that were in it were

gotten together, there was a fierce battle between them: for

the men of power fell upon the Romans in the narrow streets,

and the women threw whatsoever came next to hand at them,

and sustained a fight with them for six hours' time ; but when

the fighting-men were spent, the rest of the multitude had

their throats cut, partly in the open air and partly in their

own houses, both young and old together. So there were no

