B. II.] AGAINST AflON. 443

same time he hath ordained, that such as break these laws

should be punished, without the allowance of any excuse

whatsoever.

31. Now the greatest part of offences with us are capital;

as if any one be guilty of adultery; if any one force a virgin ;

if any one be so impudent as to attempt sodomy with a male,

or if, upon another's making an attempt upon him, ho sub­

mits to be so used. There is also a law for slaves of the like

nature that can never be avoided. Moreover, if any one

cheats another in measures or weights, or makes a knavish

bargain and sale in order to cheat another; if any one steals

what belongs to another, and takes what he never deposited,

all these have punishments allotted them : not so much as are

met with among other nations, but more severe ones. And

as for attempts of unjust behavior toward parents, or for im­

piety against God, though they be not actually accomplished,

the offenders are destroyed immediately. However, the re­

ward for such as live exactly according to the laws is not

iiilver nor gold; it is not a garland of olive branches or of

r.mallage, nor any such public sign of commendation; but

nvery good man hath his own conscience bearing witness to

himself; and by virtue of our legislator's prophetic spirit, and

of the firm security God himself affords such a one, ho believes

that God hath made this grant to those that observe these

laws, even though they be obliged readily to die for them,

that they shall come into being again, and at a certain revo­

lution of things shall receive a better life than they had en­

joyed before. Nor would I venture to write thus at this

time, were it not well known to all by our actions, that many

of our people have many a time bravely resolved to endure

any sufferings rather than speak one word against our law.

32. Nay, indeed, in case it had so fallen out, that our

nation had not been so thoroughly known among all men as

they are, and our voluntary submission to our laws had not

been so open and manifest as it is; but that somebody had

pretended to have written these laws himself, and had read

them to the Greeks, or had pretended that he had met with

men out of the limits of the known world, that had such reve­

