DISSERTATION III. 517

borne up by it.1 At a certain time of the year2 it easts out

bitumen: the manner of gathering it, like other arts, has been

taught by experience. The liquor is of its own nature of a

black color; and if you pour vinegar upon it, it clings to­

gether, and swims on the top. Those whose business it is

take it in their hands, and pull it into the upper parts of the

ship, after which it follows, without farther attraction, and"

fills the ship full, till you cut it off: nor can you cut it off

either with a brass or iron instrument; but it cannot bear the

touch of blood, or of a cloth wet with the menstrual purga­

tions of women, as the ancient authors say. But those that

are acquainted with the place assure us, that these waves of

bitumen are driven along, and by the hand drawn to the shore;

and that when they are dried by the warm steams from the

earth and the force of the sun, they are cut in pieces with

axes and wedges, as timber and stones are cut in pieces.

Chap. VII.] Not far from this lake are those plains, which

are related to have been of old fertile, and to have had many3

cities full of people, but to have been burnt up by a stroke

of lightning: it is also said, that the footsteps of that de­

struction still remain, and that the earth itself appears as

burnt earth, and has lost its natural fertility: and that as an

argument thereof, all the plants that grow of their own ac­

cord, or are planted by the hand, whether they arrive at the

degree of an herb, or of a flower, or at complete maturity,

become black and empty, and, as it were, vanish into ashes.

As for myself, as I am willing to allow that these once famous

cities were burnt by fire from heaven, so would I suppose

that the earth is infected with the vapor of the lake, and

1 Strabo says, that a man could not sink into the water of this lake so deep

as the navel.

2 Josephus never says that this bitumen was cast out at a certain time of

the year only, and Strabo says the direct contrary; but Pliny agrees with

Tacitus.

8 This is exactly according to Josephus, and must have been taken from

him in the place forecited, aud that particularly because it is peculiar to
him,

so far as I know, in all antiquity. The rest thought the cities were in the

very same place where now the lake is, but Josephus and Tacitus say they

were "in its neighborhood only, which is Mr. Reland's opinion also.

IV. —44

