C. V.J TRIUMPH OF THE ROMAN EMPERORS. 315

temple of Jerusalem, they made the greatest figure of them

all; that is, the golden table of the weight of many talents;

the candlestick also, that was made of gold, though its con足

struction were now changed from that which we made use of:

for its middle shaft was fixed upon a basis, and the small

branches were produced out of it to a great length, having

the likeness of a trident in their position, and had every one

a socket made of brass for a lamp at the tops of them. These

lamps were in number seven, and represented the dignity of

the number seven among the Jews; and the last of all the

spoils were carried the laws of the Jews. After these spoils

passed by a great many men carrying the images of victory,

whose structure was entirely either of ivory or of gold. After

which Vespasian marched in the first place, and Titus followed

him ; Domitian also rode along with them, and made a glori足

ous appearance, and rode on a horse that was worthy of ad足

miration.

6. Now the last part of this pompous show was at the

temple of Jupiter Capitolinus, whither when they were come

they stood still; for it was the Romans' ancient custom to

stay till somebody brought the news that the general of the

enemy was slain. This general was Simon, the son of Gioras,

who had then been led in this triumph among the captives;

a rope had also been put upon his head, and he had been

drawn into a proper place in the forum, and had withal been

tormented by those that drew him along; and the law of the

Romans required that malefactors condemned to die should

be slain there. Accordingly, when it was related that there

was an end of him, and all the people had set up a shout for

joy, they then began to offer those sacrifices which they had

consecrated, in the prayers used in such solemnities, which,

when they had finished, they went away to the palace. And

as for some of the spectators, the emperors entertained them

at their own feast; and for all the rest there were noble pre足

parations made for their feasting at home; for this was a

arch. (3.) That the Law or Pentateuch does not appear on that arch at all,

though Josephus, an eye witness, assures us it was carried in this procession

Ml which things deserve the consideration of tho ioquisitivo reader.

