C. II.] THE CITY. 251

together with Josephus, and show themselves to the people ;

upon which a great many fled to the Romans. These men

also got in a great number together, and stood before the

Romans, and besought the seditious, with groans and .tears

in their eyes, in the first place, to receive the Romans entirely

into the city, and save that their own place of residence

again; but that, if they would not agree to such a proposal,

they would at least depart out of the temple, and save the

holy house for their own use; for that the Romans would

not venture to set the sanctuary on fire, but under the most

pressing necessity. Yet did the seditious still more and more

contradict them; and while they cast loud and bitter re­

proaches upon these deserters, they also set their engines for

throwing of darts, and javelins, and stones, upon the sacred

gates of the temple, at due distances from one another, inso­

much that all the space round about within the temple might

be compared to a burying-ground, so great was the number

of the dead bodies therein; as might the holy house itself be

compared to a citadel. Accordingly, these men rushed upon

these holy places in their armor, that were otherwise unap­

proachable, and that while their hands were yet warm with

the blood of their own people, which they had shed: nay,

they proceeded to such great transgressions, that the very

same indignation which Jews would naturally have against

Romans, had they been guilty of such abuses against them,

the Romans now had against Jews, for their impiety in re­

gard to their own religious customs. Nay, indeed, there

were none of the Roman soldiers who did not look with a

sacred horror upon the holy house, and adored it, and wished

that the robbers would repent before their miseries became

incurable.

4. Now Titus was deeply affected with this state of things,

and reproached John and his party, and said to them —

" Have not you, vile wretches that you are, by our permis­

sion put up this partition-wall' before your sanctuary ? Have

not you been allowed to put up the pillars thereto belonging,

1 Of this partition-wall, separating Jews and Gentiles, with its pillars and

inscription, sec the description of the temples, ch. xv.

