34 VESPASIAN. [B. III.

19. When, therefore, Vespasian looked upon himself as in

a manner besieged by these sallies of the Jews, and when his

banks were not now far from the walls, he determined to make

use of his battering-ram. This ram is a vast beam of wood,

like the mast of a ship; its forepart is armed with a thick

piece of iron at the head of it, which is so carved as to be like

the head of a ram, whence its name is taken. This ram is

slung in the air by ropes passing over its middle, and is hung

like the balance in a pair of scales from another beam, and

braced by strong beams that pass on both sides of it in the

nature of a cross. When this ram is pulled backward by a

great number of men with united force, and then thrust for­

ward by the same men with a mighty noise, it batters the wall

with that iron part which is prominent. Nor is there any

tower so strong or walls so broad that one can resist any more

than its first batteries, but are all forced to yield to it at last.

This was the experiment which the Roman general betook

himself to, when he was eagerly bent upon taking the city;

but found lying in the field so long to be to his disadvantage,

because the Jews would never let him be quiet. So these

Romans brought the several engines for galling an enemy

nearer to the walls, that they might reach such as were upon

the walls, and endeavored to frustrate their attempts ; these

threw stones and javelins at them; in the like manner did

the archers and slingers come both together closer to the

walls. This brought matters to such a pass that none of the

Jews durst mount the walls; and then it was that the other

Romans brought the battering-ram, which was cased with

hurdles all over, and in the upper part was secured by skins

that covered it, and this both for the security of themselves

and of the engine. Now at the very first stroke of this en­

gine the wall was shaken, and a terrible clamor was raised

by the people within the city, as if they were already taken.

20. And now when Josephus saw this ram still battering

the same place, and that the wall would quickly be thrown

down by it, he resolved to elude for a while the force of the

engine: with this design he gave orders to fill sacks with

chaff, and to hang them down before that place where they

