816 LUCILUJS BASSUS. [B. VII.

festival day to the city of Rome, as celebrated for the victory

obtained by their army over their enemies, for the end that

was now put to their civil miseries, and for the commencement

of their hopes of future prosperity and happiness.

7. After these triumphs were over, and after the affairs of

the Romans were settled on the surest foundations, Vespasian

resolved to build a temple to Peace, which was finished in so

short a time and so glorious a manner as was beyond all

human expectation and opinion; for he having now by Provi­

dence a vast quantity of wealth, besides what he had formerly

gained in his other exploits, he had this temple adorned with

pictures and statues; for in this temple was collected and re-

posited all such rarities as men aforetimes used to wander all

over the habitable world to see, when they had a desire to see

one of them after another: he also laid up therein those golden

vessels and instruments that were taken out of the Jewish

temple as ensigns of his glory. But still he gave order that

they should lay up their law, and the purple veils of the holy

place, in the royal palace itself, and keep them there.

CHAPTER VI.

CONCERNING MACIIERUS, AND HOW LUCILIUS BASSUS TOOK

THAT CITADEL AND OTHER PLACES.

§ 1. Now Lucilius Bassus was sent as legate into Judea,

and there he received the army from Cerealis Vitellianus, and

took that citadel which was in Herodium, together with the

garrison that was in it: after which he got together all the

soldiery that were there (which was a large body but dispersed

into several parties,) with the tenth legion, and resolved to

make war upon Machcrus; for it was highly necessary that

this citadel should be demolished, lest it might be a means of

drawing away many into a rebellion, by reason of its

strength; for the nature of the place was very capable of

affording the surest hopes of safety to those that possessed it;

as well as delay and fear to those that should attack it; for

