196 EVENTS OF THE SIEGE. [B. V

out of the reach of the darts, and did no longer endeavor to

hinder the impressions of their rams, which, by continually

beating upon the wall, did gradually prevail against it; so

that the wall already gave way to the Nico; for by that name

did the Jews themselves call the greatest of their engines,

because it conquered all things. And now they were for a

long while grown weary of fighting, and of keeping guards,

and were retired to lodge on the night-times at a distance

from the wall. It was on other accounts also thought by

them to be superfluous to guard the wall, there being besides

that two other fortifications still remaining, and they being

slothful, and their counsels having been ill-concerted on all

occasions ; so a great many grew lazy, and retired. Then the

Romans mounted the breach, where Nico had made one, and

all the Jews left the guarding that wall, and retreated to the

second wall: so those that had gotten over that wall opened

the gates, and received all the army within it. And thus did

the Romans get possession of this first wall, on the fifteenth

day of the siege, which was the seventh day of the month

Artemisius [Jyar,] when they demolished a great part of it,

as well as they did of the northern parts of the city, which

had been demolished also by Cestius formerly.

3. And now Titus pitched his camp within the city, at that

place which was called the Camp of the Assyrians, having

seized upon all that lay as far as Cedron, but took care to be

out of the reach of the Jews' darts. He then presently began

his attacks, upon which the Jews divided themselves into

several bodies, and courageously defended that wall, while

John and his faction did it from the tower of Antonia, and

from the northern cloister of the temple, and fought the Ro­

mans before the monuments of king Alexander ; and Simon's

army also took for their share the spot of ground that was

near John's monument, and fortified it as far as to that gate

where water was brought into the tower Hippicus. However,

the Jews made violent sallies, and that frequently also, and

in bodies together, out of the gates, and there fought the

Romans; and when they were pursued all together to the

wall, they were beaten in those fights, as wanting the skill of

