372 FLAVIUSJOSEPHUS [». L

and six months; after him came Sethosis and Ramesses, who

had an army of horse, and a naval force. This king ap­

pointed his brother Armais to be his deputy over Egypt.

[In another copy it stood thus. — After him came Sethosis

and Ramesses, two brethren, the former of which had a naval

force, and in a hostile manner destroyed those that met him

upon the sea: but as he slew Ramesses in no long time after­

ward, so he appointed another of his brethren to be his deputy

over Egypt.] He also gave him all the other authority of a

king, but with these only injunctions, that he should not wear

the diadem, nor be injurious to the queen, the mother of his

children; and that he should not meddle with the other con­

cubines of the king, while he made an expedition against Cy­

prus and Phoenicia, and besides against the Assyrians and

the Medes. He then subdued them all, some by his arms,

some without fighting, and some by the terror of his great

army; and, being puffed up by the great successes he had

had, lie went still on the more boldly, and overthrew the cities

and countries that lay in the eastern parts. But after some

considerable time, Armais, who was left in Egypt, did all

those very things, by way of opposition, which his brother

had forbid him to do, without fear; for he used violence to

the queen, and continued to make use of the rest of the con­

cubines, without sparing any of them : nay, at the persuasion

of his friends, he put on the diadem, and set up to oppose his

brother. But then he who was set over the priests of Egypt

wrote letters to Sethosis, and informed him of all that had

happened, and how his brother had set up to oppose him ; he,

therefore, returned back to Pelusium immediately, and re­

covered his kingdom again. The country also was called

from his name Egypt: for Manetho says, that Sethosis was

himself called Egypt us, as was his brother Armais called

Danawi." '

1 Of this Egyptian chronology of Manetho, as mistaken by Josepbus, and

of these Diocnioian shepherds, as falsely supposed by him, and others after

him, to have been the Israelites in Egypt, sec Essay on the Old Testament,

Appendix, page 182-188. And noto here, that when Josephus tells us that

the Greeks or Argives looked on this Danaus as apxailnics, a ">ost ancieat, or

