50 VESPASIAN. [b. ni.

many hast thou persuaded to lose their lives for liberty ?

Thou hast heretofore had a false reputation for manhood,

and a like false reputation for wisdom, if thou canst hope

for preservation from those against whom thou hast fought

so zealously, and art, however, willing to be preserved by

them, if they be in earnest. But although the good fortune

of the Romans hath made thee forget thyself, we ought to

take care that the glory of our forefathers may not be

tarnished. We will lend thee our right hand and a sword;

and if thou wilt die willingly, thou wilt die as general of the

Jews ; but if unwillingly, thou wilt die as a traitor to them."

As soon as they said this, they began to thrust their swords

at him, and threatened they would kill him if he thought of

yielding himself to the Romans.

5. Upon this Josephus was afraid of their attacking him,

and yet thought he should be a betrayer of the commands of

God, if he died before they were delivered. So he began to

talk like a philosopher to them, in the distress he was then

in, when he said thus to them.—" O my friends, why are we

so earnest to kill ourselves ? and why do we set our soul and

body, which are such dear companions, at such variance?

Can any one pretend that I am not the man I was formerly ?

Nay, the Romans are sensible how that matter stands well

enough. It is a brave thing to die in war, but so that it be

according to the law of war, by the hand of conquerors. If,

therefore, I avoid death from the sword of the Romans, I am

truly worthy to be killed by my own sword and my own

hand: but if they admit of mercy, and would spare their

enemy, how much more ought we to have mercy upon our­

selves, and to spare ourselves ? for it is certainly a foolish

thing to do that to ourselves which we quarrel with them for

doing to us. I confess freely, that it is a brave thing to die

for liberty, but still so that it be in war, and done by those

who take that liberty from us; but in the present case our

enemies do neither meet us in battle, nor do they kill us.

Now, ho is equally a coward who will not die when he is

obliged to die, and he who will die when ho is not obliged so

to do. "What are we afraid of when we will not go up to

