320 LUCILIUSBASSUS. [b. VII.

those that met them, in which conflicts they were many of

them slain, as they therein slew many of the Romans. But

still it was the opportunities that presented themselves which

chiefly gained both sides their victories; these were gained by

the Jews, when they fell upon the Romans as they were off

their guard; but by the Romans, when upon the other's sallies

against their banks they foresaw their coming, and were upon

their guard when they received them. But the conclusion of

this siege did not depend upon these bickerings; but a certain

surprising accident, relating to what was done in this siege,

forced the Jews to surrender the citadel. There was a certain

young man among the besieged, of great boldness, and very

active of his hand; his name was EUazar: he greatly sig足

nalized himself in those sallies, and encouraged the Jews to

go out in great numbers, in order to hinder the raising of the

banks, and did the Romans a vast deal of mischief when they

came to fighting. He so managed matters, that those who

sallied out made their attacks easily, and returned back with足

out danger, and this by still bringing up the rear himself.

Now it happened, that on a certain time, when the fight was

over, and both sides were parted and retired home, he in way

of contempt of the enemy, and thinking that none of them

would begin the fight again at that time, stayed without the

gates, and talked with those that were upon the wall, and his

mind was wholly intent upon what they said. Now a certain

person belonging to the Roman camp, whose name was Rufus,

by birth an Egyptian, ran upon him suddenly, when nobody

expected such a thing, and carried him off, with his armor

itself; while, in the mean time, those that saw it from the

wall were under such an amazement, that Rufus prevented

their assistance, and carried Eleazar to the Roman camp.

So the general of the Romans ordered that he should bo

taken up naked, set before the city to be seen, and sorely

whipped before their eyes. Upon this sad accident that be足

fell the young man, the Jews were terribly confounded, and

the city, with one voice, sorely lamented him, and the mourn足

ing proved greater than could well be supposed upon the

calamity of a single person. When Bassus perceived that,

