DISSERTATION III. 535

VII. Since, therefore, Tacitus, soon after the publication

of Josephus's Antiquities, and in contradiction to them was

determined to produce such idle stories about the Jews, and

since one of those idle stories is much the same as that pub­

lished in Josephus against Apion, from Manetho and Lysi-

machus, and nowhere else met with so fully in all antiquity,

it is most probable that those Antiquities of Josephus were

the very occasion of Tacitus giving us these stories, as we

know from Josephus himself, contr. Apion, b. i. sect. 1, that

the same Antiquities were the very occasion of Apion's pub­

lication of his equally scandalous stories about them, and

which Josephus so thoroughly confuted in his two books written

against them. And if Tacitus, as I suppose, had also read

those two books, his procedure in publishing such stories,

after he had seen so thorough a confutation of them, was

still more highly criminal. Nor will Tacitus's fault be much

less, though we suppose he neither saw the Antiquities, nor

the books against Apion, because it was so very easy for him,

then at Rome, to have had more authentic accounts of -the

origin of the Jewish nation, and of the nature of the Jewish

and Christian religions, from the Jews and Christians them

selves, which, he owns, were very numerous there in his days;

so that his publication of such idle stories is still utterly in­

excusable.

VIII. It is, therefore, very plain, after all, that notwith­

standing the encomiums of several of our learned crities upon

Tacitus, and hard suspicions upon Josephus, that all the (in­

voluntary) mistakes of Josephus, in all his large works put

together, their quality, as well as quantity, considered, do

not amount to near so great a sum, as do these gross errors

and misrepresentations of Tacitus about the Jews amount to

in a few pages; so little reason have some of our later and

lesser crities to prefer the Greek and Roman profane his­

torians and writers to the Jewish, and particularly to Jose­

phus. Such later and lesser crities should have learned

more judgment and modesty from their great father Joseph

Scaliger, when, as we have seen, after all his deeper inquiries,

