DISSERTATION I. 477

About A. D. 1120. Zonarus Annal. torn. i. p. 267.—Jose-

pbus, in the eighteenth book of Antiquities, writes thus con­

cerning our Lord and God Jesus Christ:—Now there was

about this time Jesus, a wise man, if it be lawful to call him

a man, for he was a doer of wonderful works, a teacher of such

men as receive the truth with pleasure. He drew over to him

many of the Jews, and many of the Gentiles: he was the

Christ. And when Pilate, at the suggestion of the principal

men among us, had condemned him to the cross, those that

had loved him at first did not forsake him, for he appeared

to them the third day alive again, as the divine prophets had

said these, and ten thousand other wonderful things concern­

ing him: and the tribe of Christians, so named from him, are

not extinct at this day.

About A. D. 1120. Glyca> Annal p. 234. —Then did

Philo, that wise man, and Josephus, flourish. This last was

styled The lover of truth, because he commended John, who

baptized our Lord; and because he bore witness that Christ,

in like manner, was a wise man, and the doer of great mira­

cles ; and that when he was crucified, he appeared the third

day.

About A. D. 1170. Gotfridus Viterbiensis Ghron. p. 866,

e Vers, llufini.—Josephus relates that a very great war

arose between Aretas, king of the Arabians, and Herod, on

account of the sin which Herod had committed again John.

Moreover, the same Josephus writes thus concerning Christ.—

There was at this time Jesus, a wise man, if at least it bo

lawful to call him a man, for he was a doer of wonderful works,

a teacher of such men as willingly hear truth. He also drew

over to him many of the Jews, and many of the Gentiles : he

was Christ. And when Mate, at the accusation of the prin­

cipal men of our nation, had decreed that he should be cruci­

fied, those that had loved him from the beginning did not for­

sake him, for he appeared to them the third day alive again,

according to what the divinely-inspired prophets had foretold,

that these and innumerable other miracles should come to pass

about him. Moreover, both the name and sect of Christians,

who were named from him, continue in being unto this day.

