C. II.] 70 JERUSALEM. 163

would be affrighted and submit; for he had been informed,

what was really true, that the people, who were fallen under

the power of the seditious and the robbers, were greatly de足

sirous of peace; but being too weak to rise up against the

rest, they lay still.

2. Now, so long as he rode along the straight road which

led to the wall of the city, nobody appeared out of the gates;

but when he went out of that road, and declined towards the

tower Pesphinus, and led the band of horsemen obliquely,

an immense number of the Jews leaped out suddenly at the

towers called the Women's Towers, through that gate which

was over against the monuments of queen Helena, and in足

tercepted his horse; and standing directly opposite to those

that still ran along the road, hindered them from joining

those that had declined out of it. They intercepted Titus

also, with a few others. Now it was here impossible for him

to go forward, because all the places had trenches dug in

them from the wall to preserve the gardens round about, and

were full of gardens obliquely situated, and of many hedges;

and to return back to his own men, he saw it was also im足

possible, by reason of the multitude of the enemies that lay

between them; many of whom did not so much as know that

the king was in any danger,1 but supposed him still among

them. So he perceived that his preservation must be wholly

owing to his own courage, and turned his horse about, and

cried out aloud to those that were about him to follow him,

1 We may here note, that Titus is here called a king and Carsar, by Jose-

phus, even while he was no more than the emperor's son and general of the

Koman army, and his father Vespasian was still alive; just as the New

Testament says Archelaus reigned, or seas king. Matt. ii. 22, though he was

properly no more than ethnarch, as Josephus assures us, Antiq. B. xvii.

ch. xi. sect. 4 ; Of the War, B. ii. ch. vi. sect. 3. Thus also the Jews
called

the Roman emperors kings, though they never took that title to themselves:

We have no king but Caesar, John xix. 15; Submit to the king us supreme,

1 Pet. ii. 13, 17; which is also the language of the Apostolical Constitu足

tions, ii. 11, 34; iv. 13; v. 19; vi. 2, 25; vii. 16; viii. 2, 13; and
elsewhere

in the New Testament, John xix. 15; Matt. x. 18; xvii. 25; 1 Tim. ii. 2;

and in Josephus also; although I suspect Josephus particularly esteemed

Titus as joint king with his father, ever since his divine dreams that
declared

them both such, B. iii. ch. viii. sect. 9.

