96 THE HIGH-PRIEST ANANUS. [b. IV.

against themselves, and these impious wretches will be killed

by their own darts : let us but make our appearance before

them, and they will come to nothing. However, it is a right

thing, if there should bo any danger in the attempt, to die

before these holy gates, and to spend our very lives, if not

for the sake of our children and wives, yet for God's sake,

and for the sake cf his sanctuary. I will assist you both

with my counsel and with my hand ; nor shall any sagacity

of ours be wanting for your support, nor shall you see that I

will be sparing of my body neither."

11. By these motives Ananus encouraged the multitude to

go against the zealots, although he knew how difficult it would

be to disperse them, because of their multitude, and their

youth, and the courage of their souls, but chiefly because of

their consciousness of what they had done, since they would

not yield, as not so much as hoping for pardon at the last for

those their enormities. However, Ananus resolved to undergo

whatever sufferings might come upon him, rather than over­

look things now they were in such great confusion. So tho

multitude cried out to him to lead them on against those whom

he had described in his exhortation to them, and every one

of them was most readily disposed to run any hazard what­

soever on that account.

12. Now while Ananus was choosing out his men, and put­

ting those who were proper for his purpose in array for fight­

ing, the zealots got information of his undertaking (for there

were some who went to them, and told them all that the people

were doing,) and were irritated at it, and leaping out of the

temple in crowds and by parties, spared none whom they met

with. Upon this Ananus got the populace together on the

sudden, who were more numerous, indeed, than the zealots,

but inferior to them in arms, because they had not been regu­

larly put into array for fighting: but the alacrity that every

body showed supplied all their defects on both sides, the citi­

zens taking up so great a passion as was stronger than arms,

and deriving a degree of courage from the temple more forci­

ble than any multitude whatsoever; and indeed these citizens

thought it was not possible for them to dwell in the city, un­

