IX.] RESULT OF ELKAZAR'S ADVICE. 343

CHAPTER IX.

HOW THE PEOPLE THAT WERE IN THE FORTRESS WERE PRE­

VAILED ON BY THE WORDS OF ELEAZAR, TWO WOMEN AND

FIVE CHILDREN ONLY EXCEPTED, AND ALL SUBMITTED TO

BE KILLED BY ONE ANOTHER.

§ 1. Now, as Eleazar was proceeding on in this exhorta­

tion, they all cut him off short, and made haste to do the

work, as full of an unconquerable ardor of mind, and moved

with a demoniacal fury. So they went their way as one still

endeavoring to be before another, and as thinking that this

eagerness would be a demonstration of their courage and good

conduct if they could avoid appearing in the last class; so

great was the zeal they were in to slay their wives, and chil­

dren, and themselves also. Nor indeed, when they came to

the work itself did their courage fail them, as one might

imagine it would have done; but they then held fast the same

resolution without wavoring, which they had upon the hearing

of Eleazar's speech, while yet every one of them still retained

the natural passion of love to themselves and their families,

because the reasoning they went upon appeared to them to

be very just, even with regard to those that were dearest to

them; for the husbands tenderly embraced their wives, and

took their children into their arms, and gave the longest

parting kisses to them, with tears in their eyes. Yet at the

same time did they complete what they had resolved on, as

if they had been executed by the hands of strangers; and they

had nothing else for their comfort but the necessity they were

in of doing this execution, to avoid that prospect they had of

the miseries they were to suffer from their enemies. Nor was

there at length any one of these men found that scrupled to

act their part in this terrible execution, but every one of them

dispatched his dearest relations. Miserable men, indeed,

were they! whose distress forced them to slay their own

wives and children with their own hands, as the lightest of

those evils that were before them. So they being not able to

