B. II.] AGAINST APION. 451

having been forbidden so to do by one of their laws: and a

capital punishment had been decreed to such as introduced a

strange god; it being manifest that they who make use of

such a law do not believe those of other nations to be really

gods, otherwise they had not envied themselves the advantage

of more gods than they already had. And this was the happy

administration of the affairs of the Athenians! Now, as to

the Scythians, they take a pleasure in killing men, and differ

little from brute beasts; yet do they think it reasonable to

have their institutions observed. They also slew Anacharsis,

a person greatly admired for his wisdom among the Greeks,

when he returned to them, because he appeared to come

fraught with Grecian customs : one may also find many to

have been punished among the Persians on the very same

account. And to be sure Apollonius was greatly pleased with

the laws of the Persians, and was an admirer of them, because

the Greeks enjoyed the advantage of their courage, and had

the very same opinion about the gods which they had ! This

last was exemplified in the temples which they burnt, and

their courage in coming and almost entirely enslaving the

Grecians. However, Apollonius has imitated all the Persian

institutions, and that by his offering violence to other men's

wives, and castrating his own sons. Now with us it is a capital

crime if any one does thus abuse even a brute beast: and as

for us, neither hath the fear of our governors, nor a desire

of following what other nations have in so great esteem, been

able to withdraw us from our own laws; nor have wc exerted

our courage in raising up wars to increase our wealth, but

only for the observation of our laws: and when we with pa足

tience bear other losses, yet when any persons would compel

us to break our laws, then it is that we choose to go to war,

though it be beyond our ability to pursue it, and bear the

greatest calamities to the last with much fortitude. And, in足

deed, what reason can there by why we should desire to imi足

tate the laws of other nations, while we see they are not

observed by their own legislators ? And why do not the La足

cedemonians think of abolishing that form of their government

which suffers them not to associate with any others, as well as

