484 DISSERTATION I.

or Ebionitc Christian; and this I take to be the plain and

evident key of this whole matter.

V. Since, therefore, Josephus appears to have been in his

own heart and conscience no other than a Nazarene or

Ebionite Christian, and, by consequence, with them rejected

all our Greek gospels and Greek books of the New Testament,

and received only the Hebrew gospel of the Nazarenes or

Ebionites, styled by them The gospel according to the

Hebrews, or according to the twelve apostles, or even accord足

ing to Matthew, we ought always to have that Nazarene or

Ebionitc gospel, with the other Nazarene or Ebionite frag足

ments in view, when we consider any passages of Josephus

relating to Christ or to Christianity. Thus, since that

gospel omitted all that is in the beginning of our St. Matthew's

and St. Luke's gospels, and began with the ministry of John

the Baptist: in which first parts of the gospel history are the

accounts of the slaughter of the infants, and of the enrolment

or taxation under Augustus Caesar and Herod, it is no great

wonder that Josephus has not taken care particularly and

clearly to preserve those histories to us. Thus, when we

find that Josephus calls James, the brother of Christ, by the

name of James the Just, and describes him as a most just or

righteous man, in an especial manner, we are to remember

that such is his name and character in the gospel according

to the Hebrews, and the other Ebionite remains of Hegc-

sippus, but no where else, that I remember, in the earliest

antiquity; nor are we to suppose they herein referred to any

other than that righteousaess which was by the Jewish law,

wherein St. Paul,1 before he embraced Christianity, professeth

himself to have been blameless. Thus when Josephus, with

other Jews, ascribed the miseries of that nation under

Vespasian and Titus, with the destruction of Jerusalem, to

the barbarous murder of James the Just, we must remember,

what we learn from the Ebionite fragments of Hegesippus,

that these Ebionites interpreted a prophecy of Isaiah as fore足

telling this very murder, and those consequent miseries: Let

us take away the just one, for he is unprofitable to us; there足

1 Philipp. iii. 4-0.

