102 .. -t"he idumeans [b. iv.

to Ananus or -f&ilic guards, but the approach of the Idumeans

was known fo"liim ; for as he knew of it before they came, he

ordered .ths"gates to be shut against them, and that the walls

should be';guardcd. Yet did not he by any means think of

fighting against them, but before they came to blows, to try

what .persuasions would do. Accordingly Jesus, the eldest

of";the high-priests next to Ananus, stood upon the tower

vrViat was over against them, and said thus :—"Many troubles,

- indeed, and those of various kinds, have fallen upon this city,  
yet in none of them have I so much wondered at her fortune

as now, when you are come to assist wicked men, and this

after a manner very extraordinary ; for I see that you are

come to support the vilest of men against us, and this with

so great alacrity, as you could hardly put on the like in case

our metropolis had called you to her assistance against bar­

barians. And if I had perceived that your army was com­

posed of men like unto those who invited them, I had not

deemed your attempt so absurd: for nothing does so much

cement the minds of men together as the alliance there is

between their manners. But now for these men who have in­

vited you, if you were to examine them one by one, every one

of them would be found to have deserved ten thousand deaths;

for the very rascality and offscouring of the whole country, who

have spent in debauchery their own substance, and by way

of trial beforehand have madly plundered the neighboring

villages and cities, in the upshot of all have privately run

together into this holy city. They are robbers, who, by their

prodigious wickedness, have profaned this most sacred floor,

and who arc to be now seen drinking themselves drunk in

the sanctuary, and expending the spoils of those whom they

have slaughtered upon their insatiable bellies. As for the

multitude that is with you, one may see them so decently

adorned in their armor, as it would become them to be, had their

metropolis called them to her assistance against foreigners.

What can a man call this procedure of yours but the sport

of fortune, when he sees a wholo nation coming to protect a

sink of wicked wretches ? I have for a good while been in

doubt what it could possibly be that should move you to do

