382 FLAVIUSJOSEPnUS [B. I.

nation unknown of old to several of the Grecian cities, and,

indeed, was thought worthy of imitation by some of them.

This is declared by Theophrastus, in his writings concerning

laws; for he says, " that the laws of the Tyrians forbid men

to swear foreign oaths." Among which he enumerates some

others, and particularly that called Corban, which oath can

only be found among the Jews, and declares what a man may

call a tiling devoted to God. Nor, indeed, was Herodotus of

Halicarnassus unacquainted with our nation, but mentions it

after a way of his own, when he saith thus, in the second

book concerning the Colehians. His words are these: —

" The only people who were circumeised in their privy mem­

bers originally, were the Colehians, the Egyptians, and the

Ethiopians; but the Phoenicians, and those Syrians that are

in Palestine, confess that they learned it from the Egyptians.

And for those Syrians who live about the rivers Thermodon

and Parthenius, and their neighbors the Macrones, they say

they have lately learned it from the Colehians ; for these are

the only people that are circumeised among mankind, and

appear to have done the very same thing with the Egyptians.

But as for the Egyptians and Ethiopians themselves, I am

not able to say which of them received it from the other."

This, therefore, is what Herodotus says, that " the Syrians

that are in Palestine are circumeised." But there are no in­

habitants of Palestine that are circumeised excepting the

Jews; and, therefore, it must be his knowledge of them that

enabled him to speak so much concerning them. Cherilus'

1 Whether these verses of Cherilus, the heathen poet, in the days of

Xerxes, belong to the Solyrai in Pisidia, that were near a small lake, or to

the Jews that dwelt on the Solymean or Jerusalem mountains, near the

great and broad lake Asphaltitis, that were a strange people, and spake the

Phoenician tongue, is not agreed on by the learned. It is yet certain that

Josephus hero, and Eusebius, Prop. ix. 9, p. 412, took them to be Jews,

and I confess I cannot but very much incline to the same opinion. The

other Solymi were not a strange people, but heathen idolators, like tho

other part of Xerxes's army; and that these spake the Phoenician tongue

is next to impossible, as the Jews certainly did; nor is there the least evi­

dence for it elsewhere. Nor was the lake adjoining to the mountains of tho

Solymi at all large or broad in comparison of the Jewish lake Asphaltitis:

nor, indeed, were these so considerable a people as the Jews, nor so likely

