48 VESPASIAN. [b. in.

concealed recesses of the city: but as the city was first taken,

he was assisted by a certain supernatural providence; for he

withdrew himself from the enemy, when he was in the midst

of them, and leaped into a certain deep pit, whereto there

adjoined a large den at one side of it, which den could not be

seen by those that were above ground; and here he met with

forty persons of eminency that had concealed themselves, and

with provisions enough to satisfy them for not a few days.

So in the day-time he hid himself from the enemy, who had

seized upon all places, and in the night-time he got up out

of the den, and looked about for some way of escaping, and

took exact notice of the watch: but as all places were guarded

every where on his account, that there was no way of getting

off unseen, he went down again into the den. Thus he con足

cealed himself two days; but on the third day, when they

had taken a woman who had been with them, he was dis足

covered. Whereupon Vespasian sent immediately and zea足

lously two tribunes, Paulinus and Gallicanus, and ordered

them to give Josephus their right hands as a security for his

life, and to exhort him to come up.

2. So they came and invited the man to come up, and gave

him assurances that his life should be preserved; but they

did not prevail with him, for ho gathered suspicions from the

probability there was that one who had done so many things

against the Romans must suffer for it, though not from the mild

temper of those that invited him. However, he was afraid that

he was invited to come up in order to be punished, until Ves足

pasian sent besides these a third tribune, Nicanor, to him;

he was one that was well known to Josephus, and had been

his familiar acquaintance in old time. AVhen ho was come,

he enlarged upon the natural mildness of the Romans towards

those they have once conquered, and told him that he had

behaved so valiantly that the commanders rather admired than

hated him: that the general was very desirous to have him

brought to him, not in order to punish him, for that he could

do though he should not come voluntarily, but that he was

determined to preserve a man of his courage. He, moreover,

added this, that Vespasian, had he been resolved to impose

