406 FLAVIUS JOSEPHOS j,i$. I.

desert, and get the land which we now dwell in, and build

our city, and that temple which hath been so famous among

all mankind? And, besides, he ought to have spoken more

about our legislator than by giving us his bare name ; and

to have informed us of what nation he was, and what parents

he was derived from ; and to have assigned the reasons why

he undertook to make such laws concerning the gods, aud

concerning matters of injustice with regard to men during

that journey: For, in case the people were by birth Egyp­

tians, they would not on a sudden have so easily changed the

customs of their country: and in case they had been foreign­

ers, they had for certain some laws or other, which had been

kept by them from long custom. It is true, that with regard

to those who had ejected them, they might have sworn never

to bear good-will to them, and might have had a plausible

reason for so doing: but if these men resolved to wage an

implacable war against all men, in case they had acted as

wickedly as he relates of them, and this while they wanted

the assistance of all men, this demonstrates a kind of mad

conduct indeed; but not of the men themselves, but very

greatly so of him that tells such lies about them. He hath

also impudence enough to say, that a name implying robbers1

of the temples was given to their city, and that this name was

afterward changed. The reason of which is plain, that the

former name brought reproach and hatred upon them in the

times of their posterity, while it seems those that built the

city thought they did honor to the city by giving it such a

name. So we see that this fine fellow had such an unbounded

inclination to reproach us, that he did not understand that

robbery of temples is not expressed by the same word and

name among the Jews as it is among the Greeks. But why

should a man say any more to a person that tells such impu­

dent lies ? However, since this book is arisen to a competent

length, I will make another beginning, and endeavor to add

what still remains to perfect my design in the following book.

'That is the meaning of Hierosyla in Greek, not in Hebrew.

