DISSERTATION I. 487

that the main parts at least of this testimony itself were in

his copy.

(1.) When Origen introduces Josephus's testimony concern­

ing James the Just, that he thought the miseries of the Jews

were an instance of the divine vengeance on that nation for

putting James to death instead of Jesus, he uses an expres­

sion no way necessary to his purpose, nor occasioned by any

words of Josephus there, that they had slain that Christ

which was foretold in the prophecies. Whence could this

expression come here into Origen's mind, when he was quo­

ting a testimony of Josephus's concerning the brother of

Christ, but from his remembrance of a clause in the testi­

mony of the same Josephus concerning Christ himself, that

the prophets had foretold his death and resurrection, and ten

thousand other wonderful things concerning him ?

(2.) How came Origen to be so surprised at Josephus's

ascribing the destruction of Jerusalem to the Jews murdering

James the Just, and not to their murdering of Jesus, as we

have seen he was, if he had not known that Josephus had

spoken of Jesus and his death before, and that he had a very

good opinion of Jesus, which yet he could learn no way so

authentically as from this testimony ? Nor do the words he

here uses, that Josephus was not remote from the truth, per­

haps allude to any thing else but to this very testimony be­

fore us.

(3.) How came the same Origen, upon another slight occa­

sion, when he had just set down that testimony of Josephus

concerning James the Just, the brother of Jesus who was

called Christ, to say, that it may be questioned whether the

Jews thought Jesus to be a man, or whether they did not sup­

pose him to be a being of a diviner kind ? This looks so very

like to the fifth and sixth clauses of this testimony in Jose­

phus, that Jesus was a wise man, if it be latvful to call him

a man, that it is highly probable Origen thereby alluded to

them: and this is the more to be depended on, because all

the unbelieving Jews, and all the rest of the Nazarene Jews,

esteemed Jesus with one consent as a mere man, the son of

Joseph and Mary; and it is not, I think, possible to produco

