70 VESPASIAN. [B. III.

corrupted the air, insomuch that the misery was not only the

object of commiseration to the Jews, but to those that hated

them, and had been the authors of that misery. This was

the upshot of the sea-fight. The number of the slain, in­

cluding those that were killed in the city before, was six

thousand five hundred.

10. After this fight was over, Vespasian sat upon his

tribunal at Taricheae, in order to distinguish the foreigners

from the old inhabitants; for those foreigners appeared to

have begun the war. So he deliberated with the other com­

manders whether he ought to save those old inhabitants or

not. And when these commanders alleged, that the dis­

mission of them would bo to his own disadvantage, because

when they were once set at liberty they would not be at rest,

since they would be people destitute of proper habitations,

and would be able to compel such as fled to fight against us,

Vespasian acknowledged that they did not deserve to be saved,

and that if they had leave given them to fly away, they would

make use of it against those that gave them that leave. But

still he considered with himself after what manner they should

be slain;' for if he had them slain there, he suspected that

the people of the country would thereby become his enemies;

for that to be sure they would never bear it, that so many

that had been supplicants to him should bo killed; and to

offer violence to them after he had given them assurances of

their lives, he could not himself bear to do it. However, his

1 This is the most cruel and barbarous action that Vespasian ever did in

this whole war, as he did it with great reluctance also. It was done both

after public assurance given of sparing the prisoners' lives, and when all

knew and confessed that these prisoners were no way guilty of any sedition

against the Romans. Nor, indeed, did Titus now give his consent, so far as

nppears, nor ever acted of himself so barbarously; nay, soon after this

Titus grew quite weary of shedding blood, and of punishing the innocent

with tho guilty, and gave the people of Gischala leave to keep the Jewish

Sabbath, B. iv. ch. ii. sect. 3, 6, in the midst of their siege. Nor was Ves­

pasian disposed to do what he did, till his officers persuaded him, and that

from two principal topics, viz.: that nothing could be unjust that was dono

against Jews, and that when both cannot be consistent, advantage must pre­

vail over justice. Admirable court doctrines these!

