C. XII.] AND CONSEQUENT MISERY. 227

4. However, when Titus in going his rounds along those

valleys saw them full of dead bodies, and the thick putre

faction running about them, he gave a groan, and spreading

out his hands to heaven, called God to witness that this was

not his doing ; and such was the sad case of the city itself.

But the Romans were very joyful, since none of the seditious

could now make sallies out of the city, because they were

themselves disconsolate, and the famine already touched them

also. These Romans besides had great plenty of corn and

other necessaries out of Syria, and out of the neighboring

provinces ; many of which would stand near to the wall of

the city, and show the people what great quantities of pro­

visions they had, and so make the enemy more sensible of

their famine, by the great plenty, even to satiety, which they

had themselves. However, when the seditious still showed

no inclinations of yielding, Titus, out of his commiseration

of the people that remained, and out of his earnest desire of

rescuing what was still left of these miseries, began to raise

his banks again, although materials for them were hard to be

come at; for all the trees that were about the city had been

already cut down for the making of the former banks. Yet

did the soldiers bring with them other materials from the dis­

tance of ninety furlongs, and thereby raised banks in four

parts much greater than the former, although this was done

only at the tower of Antonia. So Caesar went his rounds

through the legions, and hastened on the works, and showed

the robbers that they were now in his hands. But these

men, and these only, were incapable of repenting of the

wickedness they had been guilty of; and separating their

souls from their bodies, they used them both as if they be­

longed to other folks and not to themselves: for no gentle

affection could touch their souls, nor could any pain affect

their bodies, since they could still tear the dead bodies of the

people, as dogs do, and fill the prisons with those that wero

sick.

