B. I.] AGAINST APION. 405

and took counsel what they should do, and determined that,

as the night was coming on, they should kindle fires and

lamps, and keep watch : that they also should fast the next

night, and propitiate the gods, in order to obtain deliverance

from them : that on the next day there was one Moses, who

advised them that they should venture upon a journey, and

go along one road, till they should come to places fit for

habitation: that he charged them to have no kind regards

for any man, nor give good counsel to any, but always to

advise them for the worst, and to overturn all those temples

and altars of the gods they should meet with: that the rest

commended what he had said with one consent, and did what

they had resolved on, and so travelled over the desert: But

that the difficulties of the journey being over, they came to

a country inhabited; and that there they abused the men,

and plundered and burnt their temples; and then came into

that land which is called Judea, and there they built a city,

and dwelt therein; and that their city was named Hierosyla,

from this their robbing of the temples ; but that still, upon

the success they had afterwards, they, in time changed its

denomination, that it might not be a reproach to them, and

called the city Hierosoli/ma, and themselves Hierosolymites."

35. Now this man did not discover and mention the same

king with the others, but feigned a newer name, and, passing

by the dream -and the Egyptian prophet, he brings him to

[Jupiter] Hammon, in order to gain oracles about scabby

and leprous people; for he says, that the multitude of Jews

were gathered together at the temples. Now it is uncertain

whether he ascribes this name to these lepers, or to those

that were subject to such diseases among the Jews only; for

he describes them as a people of the Jews. What people

does he mean ? foreigners, or those of that country ? Why,

then, dost thou call them Jews, if they were Egyptians?

But if they were foreigners, why dost thou not tell us whence

they came ? And how could it be, that after the king had

drowned many of them in the sea, and ejected the rest into

desert places, there should be still so great a multitude re­

maining ? Or after what manner did they pass over the

