276 PRECEDING SIONS. [b. VI.

tone possible, at every stroke of the whip his answer was,

"Woe, woe to Jerusalem." And when Albinus (for he was

then our procurator) asked him, " Who he was ? and whence

he came ? and why he uttered such words ?" he made no man­

ner of reply to what he said, but still did not leave off his

melancholy ditty, till Albinus took him to be a madman, and

dismissed him. Now, during all the time that passed before

the war began, this man did not go near any of the citizens,

nor was seen by them while he said so; but he every day

uttered these lamentable words, as if it were his premeditated

vow, — " Woe, woe to Jerusalem." Nor did he give ill words

to any of those that beat him every day, nor good words to

those that gave him food; but this was his reply to all men,

and, indeed, no other than a melancholy presage of what was

to come. This cry of his was the loudest at the festivals;

and he continued this ditty for seven years and five months,

without growing hoarse, or being tired therewith, until the

very time that he saw his presage in earnest fulfilled in our

siege, when it ceased; for as he was going round upon the

wall, he cried out with his utmost force, — " Woe, woe to the

city again, and to the people, and to the holy house." And

just as he added at the last, — "Woe, woe to myself also,"

there came a stone out of one of the engines, and smote him,

and killed him immediately; and, as he was uttering the very

same presages, he gave up the ghost.

4. Now, if any one consider these things, he will find that

God takes care of mankind, and by all ways possible fore­

shows to our race what is for their preservation, but that men

perish by those miseries which they madly and voluntarily

bring upon themselves; for the Jews, by demolishing the

tower of Antonia, had made their temple four-square, while,

at the same time, they had it written in their sacred oracles,

that " then should their city be taken, as well as their holy

house, when once their temple should become four-square."

But now, what did the most elevate them in undertaking this

war, was an ambiguous oracle that was found also in their

sacred writings, how, " about that time, one from their coun­

try should become governor of the habitable earth." The

