374 FLAVIUSJOSEPIIUS [b. i.

forty-three years and eight months before the Tyrians built

Carthage; and in their annals the building of our temple is

related; for Hirom, the king of Tyro, was the friend of

Solomon our king, and had such friendship transmitted down

to him from his forefathers. He thereupon was ambitious to

contribute to the splendor of this edifice of Solomon's, and

made him a present of one hundred and twenty talents of

gold. He also cut down the most excellent timber out of

that mountain which is called Libanus, and sent it to him

for adorning its roof. Solomon also not only made him many

other presents, by way of requital, but gave him a country

in Galilee also that was called Chabulon.^ But there was

another passion, a philosophic inclination of theirs, which

cemented the friendship that was betwixt them; for they sent

mutual problems to one another, with a desire to have them

unriddled by each other; wherein Solomon was superior to

Hirom, as he was wiser than he in other respects : and many

of the epistles that passed between them arc still preserved

among the Tyrians. Now, that this may not depend on my

bare word, I will produce for a witness Dius, one that is

believed to have written the Phoenician history after an ac­

curate manner. This Dius, therefore, writes thus in hip

histories of the Phoenicians. — " Upon the death of Abibalus,

his son Hirom took the kingdom. This king raised banks af

the eastern parts of the city, and enlarged it; he also joined

the temple of Jupiter Olympus, which stood before in an

island by itself, to the city, by raising a causeway between

them, and adorned that temple with donations of gold. He

moreover went up to Libanus, and had timber cut down for

the building of temples. They say farther, that Solomon,

when he was king of Jerusalem, sent problems to Hirom to

be solved, and desired he would send others back for him to

solve; and that he who could not solve the problems proposed

to him should pay money to him that solved thera. And

when Hirom had agreed to the proposals, but was not able to

solve the problems, he was obliged to pay a great deal of

money, as a penalty for the same. As also they relate that

1 1 Kings ix. 13.

