524 DISSERTATION III.

interposition : however, they said at last, that if the cures suc­

ceeded, Caesar would have the glory, if not, the poor miserable

objects would only be laughed at. Whereupon Vespasian

imagined that his good fortune would be universal, and that

nothing on that account could bo incredible, so he looked

cheerfully, and, in the sight of the multitude, who stood in

great expectation, he did what they desired him : upon which

the lame hand was recovered, and the blind man saw imme­

diately. Both these cures' are related to this day by those

that were present, and when speaking falsely, will get no

reward.

book v. CHAP. I.

At the beginning of the same year, Titus Coesar, who was

pitched upon by his father to finish the conquest of Judea,

and while both he and his father were private persons, was

celebrated for his martial conduct, acted now with greater

vigor and hopes of reputation, the kind inclinations both of

the provinces and of the armies striving one with another who

should most encourage him. He was also himself in a dispo­

sition to show that he was more than equal to his fortune;

and when he appeared in arms, he did all things after such a

ready and graceful way, treating all after such an affable

manner, and with such kind words, as invited the good-will

and good wishes of all. He appeared also in his actions and

in his place in the troops ; he mixed with the common soldiers,

/ l 1'he miraculous cures done by Vespasian arc attested to both by Sueto­

nius iu Vespasian, sect. 7, and by Dio, p. 217, and seem to me well attested.

Uur Savior stems to have overruled the hcathen oracle of Serapis, to procure

■ the divine approbation to Vespasian's advancement to the empire of Rome,

I as he suggested the like approbation to the advancement both of Vespasian

and Titus to Josephus, which two were to be his chosen instruments in bring­

ing on that terrible destruction upon the Jewish nation, which he had threat­

ened to execute by theso Roman armies. Nor could any other Roman gen­

erals than Vespasian and Titus, at that time, in human probability, have

prevailed over the Jews, and destroyed Jerusalem, as this whole history in

Josephus implies. Josephus also everywhere supposes Vespasian and Titug

raised up to command against Judea and Jerusalem, and to govern the Ro­

man empire by divine providence, and not in the ordinary way: as also, he

always supposes this destruction a divine judgment on the Jews for their sins.

