358 FLAVIUSJOSEPHUS [b. I.

Trojan war, so many years afterward, is in great doubt, and

great inquiry is made whether the Greeks used their letters

at that time; and the most prevailing opinion, and that

nearest the truth, is, that their present way of using those

letters was unknown at that time. However, there is not

any writing which the Greeks agree to be genuine among

them# ancienter than Homer's poems,1 who must plainly be

confessed later than the siege of Troy; nay, the report goes,

that even he did not leave his poems in writing, but that their

memory was preserved in songs, and they were put together

afterward; and that this is the reason of such a number of

variations as are found in them. As for those who set them­

selves about writing their histories, I mean such as Cadmus

of Miletus, and Acusilaus of Argos, and any others that may

be mentioned as succeeding Acusilaus, they lived but a little

while before the Persian expedition into Greece. But then

for those that first introduced philosophy, and the considera­

tion of things celestial and divine among them, such as Pkere-

cydes the Syrian, and Pythagoras, and Thales, all with one

consent agree that they learned what they knew of the

Egyptians and Chaldeans, and wrote but little. And these

are the things which are supposed to be the oldest of all among

the Greeks; and they have much ado to believe that the

writings ascribed to those men are genuine.

3. How can it then be other than an absurd thing for the

Greeks to be so proud, and to vaunt themselves to be the

only people that arc acquainted with antiquity, and that have

delivered the true accounts of those early times after an

accurate manner? Nay, who is there that cannot easily

gather from the Greek writers themselves, that they knew

1 This preservation uf Homer's Poems by memory, and not by his own

writing thcm down, and that thence they were styled rhapsodiss, as sung by

him, like ballads, by parts, and not composed and connected together in

complete works, are opinions well known from the ancient commentators;

though such Bupposnl seems to myself, as well as to Fabricius, Iiiblioth.

Grace, i. p. '269, and to others, highly improbable. Nor does Josephus say

there were no ancienter writings among the Greeks th;in Homer-s poems,

but that they did not fully own any ancienter writings pretending to such

antiquity, which is true.

