B. II.] AGAINST A PI ON. 449

left desolate, and others are built anew, according to the plea足

sure of men : whereas they ought to have preserved their

opinion about God, and that worship which is due to him,

always and immutably the same.

37. But now this Apollonius Molo was one of these foolish

and proud men. However, nothing that I have said was un足

known to those that were real philosophers among the Greeks;

nor were they unacquainted with those frigid pretences of alle足

gories [which had been alleged for such things;] on which

account they justly despised them, but have still agreed with

us as to the true and becoming notions of God; whence it was

that Plato would not have political settlements admit of any

one of the other poets, and dismisses even Homer himself,

with a garland on his head, and with ointment poured upon

him, and this because he should not destroy the right notions

of God with his fables. Nay, Plato principally imitated our

legislator in this point, that he enjoined his citizens to have

the main regard to this precept, that every one of them should

learn their laws accurately. He also ordained that they should

not admit of foreigners intermixing with their own people at

random; and provided that the commonwealth should keep

itself pure, and consist of such only as persevered in their

own laws. Apollonius Molo did no way consider this, when

he made it one branch of his accusation against us, that we

do not admit of such as have different notions about God, nor

will we have fellowship with those that choose to observe a

way of living different from ourselves; yet is not this method

peculiar to us, but common to all other men; not among the

ordinary Grecians only, but among such of those Grecians as

are of the greatest reputation among them. Moreover, the

Lacedemonians continued in their way of expelling foreigners,

and would not, indeed, give leave to their own people to travel

abroad, as suspecting that those two things would introduce a

dissolution of their own laws: and, perhaps, there may bo

some reason to blame the rigid severity of the Lacedemonians;

for they bestowed the privilege of their city on no foreigners,

nor, indeed, would give leave to them to stay among them:

whereas we, though we do not think fit to imitate other insti足

38*

