C. III.] SEDITIONS IN JERUSALEM. 169

CHAPTER III.

HOW THE SEDITION' WAS AGAIN REVIVED WITHIN JERUSALEM,

AND YET TnE JEWS CONTRIVED SNARES FOR THE ROMANS :

HOW TITUS ALSO THREATENED HIS SOLDIERS FOR THEIR

UNGOVERNABLE RASHNESS.

§ 1. As now the war abroad ceased for awhile, the sedi­

tion within was revived; and on the feast of unleavened

bread, which was now come, it being the fourteenth day of

the month Xanthicus [Nisan,] when it is believed the Jews

were first freed from the Egyptians, Eleazar and his party

opened the gates of this [inmost court of the] temple, and

admitted such of the people1 as were desirous to worship God

into it. But John made use of this festival as a cloak for his

treacherous designs, and armed the most inconsiderable of

his own party, the greater part of which were not purified,

with weapons concealed under their garments, and sent them

with great zeal into the temple, in order to seize upon it,

which armed men, when they were gotten in, threw their gar­

ments away, and presently appeared in their armor: upon

which there was a very great disorder and disturbance about

1 Here we see the true occasion of those vast numbers of Jews that were

in Jerusalem during this siege by Titus, and perished therein ; that the siege

began at the feast of the Passover, when such prodigious multitudes of Jews

and proselytes of the gate were come from all parts of Judea, and from other

countries, in order to celebrate that great festival. See the note, B. vi.

chap. ix. sect. 3. Tacitus himself informs us, that the number of men, wo­

men, and children in Jerusalem, when it was besieged by the Romans, as ho

had been informe'l, was 600.000. This information must have been taken

from the Romans; for Josephus never mentions the number of those that

were besieged, only he lets us know, that of the vulgar, carried dead out of

the gates and buried at the public charges, was the like number of 600,000,

chap. xiii. sect. 7. However, when Cestius Callus came first to the siege,

that sum in Tacitus is no way disagreeable to Josephus's history, though

they were become much more numerous when Titus encompassed the city at

the Passover. As to the number that perished during the siege, Josephus

assures us, as we shall see hereafter, they were 1,100,000, besides 97,000

captives; but Tacitus's history of the last part of this siege is not now ex­

tant, so we cannot compare his parallel numbers with those in Joscphue.

IV. —15

