66 SIEGE OF TARICHE.fi. [b. III.

men to our assistance, that as few as we are we may conquer

so great a multitude, and may ourselves alone take the city."

5. As soon as ever Titus had said this, he leaped upon his

horse, and rode apace down to the lake; by which lake he

marched, and entered into the city the first of them all, as

did the others soon after him. Hereupon those that were

upon the walls were seized with a terror at the boldness of

the attempt, nor durst any one venture to fight with him or

to hinder him; so they left guarding the city; and some of

those that were about Jesus fled over the country, while others

of them ran down to the lake, and met the enemy in the

teeth; and some were slain as they were getting up into ships,

but others of them as they attempted to overtake those that

were already gone abroad. There was also a great slaughter

made in the city, while those foreigners that had not fled

away already made opposition; but the natural inhabitants

were killed without fighting; for in hopes of Titus's giving

them his right hand for security, and out of a consciousness

that they had not given any consent to the war, they avoided

fighting, till Titus had slain the authors of this revolt, and

then put a stop to any farther slaughter, out of commiseration

of these inhabitants of the place. But for those that had

fled to the lake, upon seeing the city taken, they sailed as

far as they possibly could from the enemy.

6. Hereupon Titus sent one of his horsemen to his father,

and let him know the good news of what he had done; at

which, as was natural, he was very joyful, both on account

of the courage and glorious actions of his son; for he thought

that now the greatest part of the war was over. He then

came thither himself, and set men to guard the city, and

gave them command to take care that nobody got privately

out of it, but to kill such as attempted so to do. And on

the next day he went down to the lake, and commanded that

vessels should be fitted up in order to pursue those that had

escaped in the ships. These vessels were quickly gotten

ready accordingly, because there was great plenty of materials,

and a great number of artificers also.

7. Now this lake of Oennesareth is so called from the

