DISSERTATION III. 511

of Libya, and this at the time when Saturn was driven out

of his kingdom by the power of Jupiter: an argument for it

is fetched from their name. The mountain Ida is famous in

Crete; and the neighboring inhabitants are named Idaei,

which, with a barbarous augment, becomes the name of Judaei

[Jews.] Some say they were a people that were very nume­

rous in Egypt, under the reign of Isis, and that the Egyptians

got free from that burden by sending them into the adjoining

countries, under their captains Hierosolymus and Judas. The

greatest part say, they were those Ethiopians whom fear and

hatred obliged to change their habitations in the reign of

king Cepheus.1 There are those which report they were

Assyrians, who, wanting lands, got together, and obtained

part of Egypt, and soon afterwards settled themselves in

cities of their own, in the lands of the Hebrews, and the

parts of Syria that lay nearest to them.2 Others pretend

their origin to be more eminent, and that the Solymi, a people

celebrated in Homer's poems-, were the founders of this nation,

and gave this their own name, Hierosolyma, to the city, which

they built there.3

CnAP. III.] Many authors agree, that when once an infec­

tious distemper was arisen in Egypt, and made men's bodies

impure, Bocchoris their king went to the oracle of [Jupiter]

Hammon, and begged he would grant him some relief against

this evil, and that he was enjoined to purge his nation of them,

and to banish this kind of men into other countries, as hate­

ful to the gods:4 that when he had sought for, and gotten

them all together, they were left in a vast desert; that here­

upon the rest devoted themselves to weeping and inactivity;

but one of those exiles, Moses by name, advised them to look

1 One would wonder how Tacitus or any heathens could suppose the African

Ethiopians under Cepheus, who are known to be blacks, could be the parents

of the Jews, who are known to be whites.

3 This account comes nearest the truth; and this Tacitus might have from

Josephus, only disguised by himself.

3 This Tacitus might have out of Josephus, Antiq. B. vii. ch. iii. sect. 2.

» Strange doctrine to Josephus! who truly observes on this occasion, that

the gods are angry not at bodily imperfections, but at wicked practices.

Apion, I), i. sect. 28.

