C.X.] VESPASIAN RELEASES JOSEPHUS. 149

Mucianus came also, who was the president of the province,

and told him with what alacrity the people [received the

news of his advancement,] and how the people of every city

had taken the oath of fidelity to him.

7. So Vespasian's good fortune succeeded to his wishes

every where, and the public affairs were, for the greatest

part, already in his hands; upon which he considered, that

he had not arrived at the government without divine Pro­

vidence, but that a righteous kind of fate had brought the

empire under his power; for as he called to mind the other

signals, which had been a great many every where, that

foretold he should obtain the government, so did he remember

what Josephus had said to him, when he ventured to foretell

his coming to the empire while Nero was alive; so he was

much concerned that this man was still in bonds with him.

He then called for Mucianus, together with his other com­

manders and friends, and, in the first place, he informed

them what a valiant man Josephus had been, and what great

hardships he had made him undergo in the siege of Jotapata.

After he had related those predictions' of his which he had

then suspected as fictitions, suggested out of the fear he was

in, but which had by time been demonstrated to be divine.

" It is a shameful thing," said he, " that this man who hath

foretold my coming to the empire beforehand, and been the

minister of a divine message to me, should still be retained

in the condition of a captive or prisoner." So he called for

Josephus, and commanded that he should be set at liberty;

1 As Daniel was preferred by Darius and Cyrus, on account of his having

foretold the destruction of the Babylonian monarchy by their means, and

the consequent exaltation of the Jledes and Persians, v. Ti., or rather, as

Jeremiah, when he was a prisonor, was set at liberty, and honorably treated

by Nebuzaradan, at the command of Nebuchadnezzar, on account of his

having foretold the destruction of Jerusalem by tho Babylonians, Jer. xl.

1-0, so was our Josephus set at liberty, and honorably treated, on account

of his having foretold the advancement of Vespasian and Titus to the

Roman empire. All theso are most eminent instances of the interposition

of divine providence, and of the certainty of divine predictions in tho great

revolutions of the four monarchies. Several such like examples there are

both in the sacred and other histories; as is the case of Joseph in Egypt,

and of Juddua tho high-priest, in the days of Alexander the Great, &o.

13*

