DISSERTATION I. 485

fore shall they eat the fruits of their own ways? Thus when

Josephus says, as we have seen, that the most equitable

citizens of Jerusalem, and those that were most zealous of

the law, were very uneasy at the condemnation of this James

and some of his friends or fellow Christians, by the high-

priest and sanhedrim, about A. D. 62, and declares, that ho

himself was one of those Jews who thought the terrible

miseries of that nation effects of the vengeance of God for

their murder of this James, about A. D. 68, we may easily

see those opinions could only be the opinions of converted

Jews or Ebionites. The high-priest and sanhedrim, who

always prosecuted the Christians, and now condemned these

Christians, and the body of those unbelieving Jews, who are

supposed to suffer for murdering this James, the head of the

Nazarene or Ebionite Christians in Judea, could not, to be

sure, be of that opinion ; nor could Josephus himself be of

the same opinion, as he declares he was, without the strongest

inclinations to the Christian religion, or without being

secretly a Christian Jew, i. e. a Nazarene or Ebionite ; which

thing is, by the way, a very great additional argument that

such he was, and no other. Thus, lastly, when Josephus is

cited in Suidas as affirming that Jesus officiated with the

priests in the temple, this account is by no means disagreeable

to the pretensions of the Ebionites. Hcgesippus affirms the

very same of James the Just also.

VI. The first citation of the famous testimony concerning

our Savior from Tacitus, almost all that was true of the Jews

is directly taken by him out of Josephus, as will be demon­

strated under the third Dissertation hereafter.

VII. The second author I have alleged for it is Justin

Martyr, one so nearly coeval with Josephus, that he might

be born about the time when he wrote his Antiquities, appeals

to the same Antiquities by that very name: and though he

does not here directly quote them, yet does he seem to me to

allude to this very testimony in them concerning our Savior,

when he affirms in this place to Trypho the Jew, That his

nation originally knew that Jesus teas risen from the dead,

' Is. Hi. 10.

41*

