500 DISSERTATION II.

"' They built the high places of Baal, which are in the

valley of the son of Hinnom, to cause their sons and their

daughters to pass through the fire unto Molech, which I com­

manded them not, neither came it into my mind that they

should do this abomination to cause Judah to sin."

" 2 Moreover, thou hast taken thy sons and thy daughters,

whom thou hast born unto me, and these hast thou sacrificed

unto them to be devoured. Is this of thy whoredoms a small

matter, that thou hast slain my children, and delivered them

to cause them to pass through the fire for them ? See chap.

xx. 1 Cor. x. 20.

"3 Thou hatest the old inhabitants of thy holy land, for

doing most odious works of witchcraft, and wicked sacrifices ;

and also those merciless murderers of children, and devourers

of man's flesh, and feasts of blood, with their priests, out of

the midst of their idolatrous crew, and the parents that killed

with their own hands souls destitute of help."

6. That Almighty God never permitted, in any one in­

stance, that such a human sacrifice should actually bo offered

to himself (though he had a right to have required it, if he

had so pleased,) under the whole Jewish dispensation, which

yet was full of many other kinds of sacrifices, and this at a

time when mankind generally thought such sacrifices of the

greatest virtue for the procuring pardon of sin, and the divine

favor. This the ancient records of the heathen world attest.

Take their notion in the words of Philo Byblius, the trans­

lator of Sanchoniatho. "4 It was the custom of the ancients,

in the greatest calamities and dangers, for the governors of

the city or nation, in order to avert the destruction of all, to

devote their beloved son to be slain, as a price of redemption

to the punishing [or avenging] demons ; and those so devoted

were killed after a mystical manner." This the history of

the king of Moab,5 when he was in great distress in his war

against Israel and Judah, informs us of; who then took his

eldest son, that should have reigned in his stead, and offered

him for a burnt-offering upoa the city wall. This also the

' Jer. xxxii. 35. s Ezek. xvi. 20, 21. » Wisdom, xii. 4-6

4 Ap. Marsh. p. 76, 77. 5 2 Kings, iii. 27.

