304 VESPASIAN'S RECEPTION AT ROME. [B. VII.

was then put a stop to, which was likely, by the fury where­

with it was carried along, to have gone over the whole city,)

Antiochus accused the Jews as the occasion of all the mis­

chief that was done. Now this induced the people of Anti-

och, who were now under the immediate persuasion, by reason

of the disorder they were in, that this calumny was true, and

would have been under the same persuasion, even though

they had not borne an ill-will at the Jews before, to believe

this man's accusation, especially when they considered what

had been done before, and this to such a degree, that they all

fell violently upon those that were accused, and this like

madmen, in a very furious rage also, even as if they had seen

the Jews in a manner setting fire themselves to the city: nor

was it without difficulty that one Cneas Collegas, the legate,

could prevail with them to permit the affairs to be laid before

Coesar; for as to Cecennius Petus, the president of Syria,

Vespasian had already sent him away; and so it happened,

that he was not yet come back thither. But when Collegas

had made a careful inquiry into the matter, he found out the

truth, and that not one of those Jews that were accused by

Antiochus had any hand in it, but that all was done by some

vile persons greatly in debt, who supposed, that if they could

once set fire to the market-place and burn the public records,

they should have no farther demands made upon them. So

the Jews were under great disorder and terror, in the uncer­

tain expectations of what would be the upshot of these accu­

sations against them.

CHAPTER IV.

HOW VESPASIAN WAS RECEIVED AT ROME; A3 ALSO HOW THE

GEHMAN8 REVOLTED FROM THE ROMANS, BUT WERE SUB­

DUED. THAT THE SARMATIANS OVERRAN MYSIA, BUT WERE

COMPELLED TO RETURN TO THEIR OWN COUNTRY AGAIN.

§ 1. And now Titus Caesar, upon the news that was brought

him concerning his father, that his coming was much desired

by all the Italian cities, and that Rome especially received

