B. I.] AGAINST A PI ON. * 357

have not omitted such our history, for the sake of those that

either do not know them, or pretend not to know them already.

2. And now, in the first place, I cannot but greatly wonder

at those men who suppose that we must attend to none but

Grecians when we are inquiring about the most ancient facts,

and must inform ourselves of their truth from them only,

while we must not believe ourselves nor other men; for I am

convinced that the very reverse is the truth of tho case: I

mean this, if we will not be led by vain opinions, but will

make inquiry after truth from facts themselves; for they

will find, that almost all which concerns the Greeks happened

not long ago; nay, one may say, is of yesterday only. I

speak of the building of their cities, the invention of their

arts, and the description of their laws; and as for their care

about the writing down of their histories, it is very near the

last thing they set about. However, they acknowledge them­

selves so far, that they were the Egyptians, the Chaldeans,

and the Phoenicians (for I will not now reckon ourselves

among them) that have preserved the memorials of the most

ancient and most lasting traditions of mankind; for almost

all these nations inhabit such countries as are least subject

to destruction from the world about them; and these also

have taken especial care to have nothing omitted of what

was [remarkably] done among them; but their history was

esteemed sacred, and put into public tables, as written by

men of the greatest wisdom they had among them. But as

for the place where the Grecians inhabit, ten thousand de­

structions have overtaken it, and blotted out the memory of

former actions; so that they were ever beginning a new way

of living, and supposed that every one of them was the origin

of their new state. It was also late and with difficulty that

they came to know the letters they now use; for those who

would advance their use of these letters to the greatest

antiquity, pretend that they learned them from the Phoeni­

cians and from Cadmus; yet is nobody able to demonstrate

that they have any writing preserved from that time, neither

in their temples nor in any other public monuments. This

appears, because the time when those lived who went to the

