C. VI.] LUCILIUS DASSUS. 319

be afraid of taking it into their hands. Yet after all this

pains in getting, it is only valuable on account of one virtue

it hath, that if it be only brought to the sick persons, it

quickly drives away those called demons, which are no other

than the spirits of the wicked that enter into men that are

alive, and kill them, unless they can obtain some help against

them. Here are also fountains of hot water that flow out

of this place, which have a very different taste one from the

other; for some of them are bitter and others of them are

plainly sweet. Here also arc many eruptions of cold waters,

and this not only in the places that lie lower, and have their

fountains near one another; but, what is still more wonder足

ful, here is to be seen a certain cave hard by, whose cavity

is not deep, but it is covered over by a rock that is promi足

nent : above this rock there stand up two [hills or] breasts,

as it were, but a little distant one from another; the one of

which sends out a fountain that is very cold, and the other

sends out one that is very hot; which waters, when they are

mingled together, compose a most pleasant bath: they are

medicinal, indeed, for other maladies, but especially good for

strengthening the nerves. This place has in it also mines of

sulphur and alum.

4. Now when Bassus had taken a full view of this place,

he resolved to besiege it, by filling up the valley that lay on

the east side: so he fell hard to work, and took great pains

to raise his banks as soon as possible, and by that means to

render the siege easy. As for the Jews that were caught in

that place, they separated themselves from the strangers that

were with them, and they forced those strangers, as an other足

wise useless multitude, to stay in the lower part of the city,

and undergo the principal dangers, while they themselves

seized on the upper citadel, and held it, and this both on ac足

count of its strength and to provide for their own safety.

They also supposed they might obtain their pardon, in case

they should [at last] surrender the citadel. However, they

were willing to make trial in the first place whether the hopes

they had of avoiding a siege would come to any thing ; with

which intention they made sallies every day, and fought with

