58 VESPASIAN. [b. m.

thus thrown out of the sea was four thousand and two hundred.

The Komans also took the city without opposition, and utterly

demolished it.

4. And thus was Joppa taken twice by the Romans in a

little time; but Vespasian, in order to prevent these pirates

from coming thither any more, erected a camp there, where

the citadel of Joppa had been, and left a body of horse in it,

with a few footmen, that these last might stay there and

guard the camp, and the horsemen might spoil the country

that lay round it, and might destroy the neighboring villages

and smaller cities. So these troops overran the country, as

they were ordered to do, and every day cut to pieces, and

laid desolate the whole region.

5. But now, when the fate of Jotapata was related at Jeru­

salem, a great many at the first disbelieved it, on account of

the vastness of the calamity, and because they had no eye­

witness to attest the truth of what was related about it;

for not one person was saved to be a messenger of that news,

but a fame was spread abroad at random, that the city was

taken, as such fame usually spreads bad news about. How­

ever, the truth was known by degrees from the places near

Jotapata, and appeared to all to be too true. Yet were there

fictitious stories added to what was really done; for it was

reported that Josephus was slain at the taking of the city,

which piece of news filled Jerusalem full of sorrow. In every

house, also, and among all to whom any of the slain were

allied, there was a lamentation for them ; but the mourning

for the commander was a public one, and some mourned for

those that had lived with them, others for their kindred,

others for their friends, and others for their brethren, but

all mourned for Josephus ; insomuch that the lamentation

did not cease in the city before the thirtieth day, and a great

many hired mourners,1 with their pipes, who should begin

their melancholy ditties for them.

1 These public mourners, hired upon the supposed death of Josephus, and

the real death of many more, illustrate some passages in the Bible, which

suppose the same customs, as Matt. xi. 17, where the reader may consult

the note of Grotius.

