106 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XI.

"as thou bast a mind to make, and shall take the expenses out

"of the king's treasury. I have moreover written to the trea-

"surers of Syria and Phenicia, that they take care of those af-

"fairs that Esdras the priest, and reader of the laws of God,

"is sent about. And that God may not be at all angry with

"me, or with my children, I grant all that is necessary for sa-

"crifices to God, according to the 'law, as far as a hundred

"cori of wheat. And I enjoin you not to lay any treacherous

"imposition, or any tributes, upon their priests or Levites, or

"sacred singers, or porters, or sacred servants, or scribes of the

"temple. And do thou, O Esdras, appoint Judges according to

"the wisdom [given thee] of God, and those such as understand

"the law, that they may judge in all Syria and Phenicia; and

"do thou instruct those also who are ignorant of it, that if any

"one of thy countrymen transgress the law of God, or that of

"the king, he may be punished, as not transgressing it out of

"ignorance, but as one that knows it indeed, but boldly de-

"spises and contemns it; and such may be punished by death,

"or by paying fines. Farewell."

2. When Esdras had received this epistle, he was very joyful,

and began to worship God, and confessed that he had been the

cause of the king's great favour to him, and that for the same

reason he gave all the thanks to God. So he read the epistle at

Babylon to those Jew.s that were there, but he kept the epistle it­

self, and sent a copy of it to all those of his own nation that were in

Media. And when these Jews had understood what piety the

king had towards God, and what kindness he had for Esdras,

they were all greatly pleased; nay, many of them took their ef­

fects with them, and came to Babylon, as very desirous of going

down to Jerusalem; but then the entire body of the people of Is­

rael remained in that country, wherefore there are but two tribes

in Asin and Europe subject to the Romans, while the ten tribes

are beyond Euphrates till now, and are an immense multitude,

ami not to be estimated by numbers. Now there came agreat num­

ber of priests, and Levites, and porters, and sacred singers, and

sacred servants, to Esdras. So he gathered those that were in the

captivity together beyond Euphrates, and stayed there three days,

and ordained a fast for them, that they might make their prayers

to God for their preservation, that they might suffer no misfor­

tunes by the way, either from their enemies, or from any other ill

accident; for Esdras had said beforehand, that he had told the

king how God would preserve them, and so he had not thought fit

to request that he would send horsemen to conduct them. So

when they had finished their prayers, they removed from Eu­

phrates on the twelfth day of the first month of the seventh year

of the reign of Xerxes3 and they came to Jerusalem on the fifth

