260 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIIL

Gabinius came back being both excluded out of the city, and

receiving none of the money promised, because Aristobulus'

soldiers would not permit the agreements to be executed. At

this Pompey was very angry, and put Aristobulus into prison

and came himself to the city, which was strong on every side,

excepting the north, which was not so well fortified, for there

was * a broad and deep ditch that encompassed the city, and in­

cluded within the temple, which was itself encompassed about

with a very strong stone wall.

2. Now there was a sedition of the men that were within the

city, who did not agree what was to be done in their present

circumstances, while some thought it best to deliver up the city

to Pompey: but Aristobulus' party exhorted them to shut the

gates, because he was kept in prison. Now these prevented the

others and seized upon the temple, and cut oft' the bridge which

reached from it to the city, and prepared themselves to abide a

siege; but the others admitted Pompey's army in, and delivered

up both the city and the king's palace to him. So Pompey sent

his lieutenant Piso with an army, and placed garrisons both in

the city and in the palace, to secure them, and fortified the

houses that joined to the temple: and all those which were more

distant, and without it. And in the first place, he offered terms

of accommodation to those within, but when they would not

comply with what was desired, he encompassed all the places

thereabout with a wall, wherein Hyrcanus did gladly assist him

on all occasions, but Pompey pitched his camp within [the wall,]

on the north part of the temple, where it was most practicable;

but even, on that side there were great towers, and a ditch had

been dug, and a deep valley begirt it round about, for on the

parts towards the city were precipices, and the bridge on which

Pompey had gotten in, was broken down; however, a bank was

raised day by day, with a great deal of labour, while the Ro­

mans cut down materials for it from the places round about:

And when this bank was sufficiently raised and the ditch filled

up, though but poorly, by reason of its immense depth, he

brought his mechanical engines and battering rams from Tyre,

and placing them on the bank he battered the temple with the

stones that were thrown against it. And had it not been our

practice, from the days of our forefathers, to rest on the se­

* The particular depth and breadth of this ditch whence the stones for the wall  
about the temple were probably taken, are omitted in our copies of Josephus,
but set

down by Strabo, B. XVI. p. 763. from whom we learn, that this ditch was CO
feet

deep, and 250 feet broad. However, its depth is, in the first section, said by
Jose-

phus to be immense, which exactly agrees to Strabo's description, and which
number

in Strabo are a strong confirmation of the truth of Josephus' description
also.

