Chap. X. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 279

"that he and his children retain whatsoever privileges belong to

"the office of high priest, or whatsoever favours have been

"hitherto granted them. And if at any time hereafter there

"arise any questions about the Jewish customs, I will that he

"determine the same. And I think it not proper that they

"should be obliged to fmd us winter quarters, or that any

"money should be required of them."

3. "The decrees of Caius Caesar, consul, containing what hath

"been granted and determined, are as follows: That Hyrcanus

"and his children bear rule over the nation of the Jews, and

"have the profits of the places to them bequeathed: and that he

"as himself the high priest and ethnarch of the Jews, defend

"those that are injured. And that ambassadors, be sent to Hyr-

"canus the son of Alexander, the high priest of the Jews, that

"may discourse with him about a league of friendship and

"mutual assistance, and that a table of brass, containing the

"premises, be openly proposed in the capitol, and at Sidon and

"Tyre, and Askelon, and in the temple, engraven in Roman

"and Greek letters: that this decree may also be communicated

"to the questors and pretors of the several cities, and to the

"friends of the Jews: and that the ambassadors may have pre-

"sents made them, that these decrees be sent every where."

4>. "Caius Caesar, imperator, dictator, consul, hath granted,

"That out of regard to the honour and virtue, and kindness of

"the man; and for the advantage of the senate, and of the people

"of Rome, Hyrcanus, the son of Alexander, both he and his

"children, be high priests and priests of Jerusalem, and of the

"Jewish nation, by the same right, and according to the same

"laws, by which their progenitors have held the priesthood."

5. " Caius Caesar, consul the fifth time, hath decreed, That

"the Jews shall possess Jerusalem, and may encompass that

"city with walls; and that Hyrcanus, the son of Alexander,

"the high priest and ethnarch of the Jews, retain in the man-

"ner he himself pleases; and that the Jews be allowed to de-

"duct out of their tribute every second year the land in let [in

"the sabbatic period] a corous of that tribute, and that the tri-

"bute they pay be not let to farm, nor that they pay always

"the same tribute."

6. " Caius Caesar, imperator the second time, hath ordained,

"That all the country of the Jews, excepting Joppa, do pay a tri-

"bute yearly for the city Jerusalem, excepting the seventh;

"which they call the Sabbatical year, because thereon they

"neither receive the fruits of their trees, nor do they sow their

"land; and that they pay their tribute in Sidon on the second

"year [of that Sabbatical period,] the fourth part of what was

"sown: and besides this, they are to pay the same tithes to

