Chap. XII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 235

was, it being natural to men to suspect that what is thus con­

cealed, is very bad: so upon his threatening, and forcing them

by terrors to speak, they at length told him the truth; where­

upon he shed many tears, in that disorder of mind which arose

from his consciousness of what he had done, and gave a deep

groan, and said, "I am not therefore, I perceive, to be con-

"cealed from God, in the impious and horrid crimes I have

"been guilty of, but a sudden punishment is coming upon me

"for the shedding the blood of my relations. And now, O

"thou most impudent body of mine, how long wilt thou re-

"tain a soul that ought to die, in order to appease the ghosts

"of my brother, and my mother? Why dost thou not give it

"all up at once? And why do I deliver up my blood drop by

"drop, to those whom I have so wickedly murdered?" In say­

ing which last words, he died, having reigned a year. He was

called a lover of the Grecians, and had conferred many benefits

on his own country, and made war against Iturea, and added a

great part of it to Judea, and compelled the inhabitants, if they

would continue in that country, to be circumcised, and to live

according to the Jewish laws. He was naturally a man of can­

dour, and of great modesty, as Strabo bears witness, in the

name of Timagenes; who says thus; "This man was a person

"of candour, and very serviceable to the Jews, for he added a

"country to them, and obtained a part of the nation of the Itu-

"reans for them, and bound them to them by the bond of the

"circumcision of their genitals."

CHAP. XII.

Hew Alexander, when he had taken the government, made an

expedition against Ptolemais, and then raised the siege out of

fear of Ptolemy Lathyrus: and how Ptolemy made war against

him, because he had sent to Cleopatra to persuade her to make

war against Ptolemy, and yet pretended to be in friendship

with him, when he beat the Jews in the battle.

1. VV HEN Aristobulus was dead, his wife Salome, who,

by the Greeks, was called Alexandra, let his brethren out of

prison, for Aristobulus had kept them in bonds, as we have said

already, and made Alexander Janneus king, who was the supe­

rior in age and in moderation. This child happened to be

hated by his father as soon as he was born, and could never be

permitted to come into his father's sight till he died. The oc­

casion of which hatred is thus reported: When Hyrcanus chiefly

loved the two eldest of his sons, Anjigonus and Aristobulus,

God appeared to him in his sleep, of whom he inquired, which

VOL. n. oc 23

