232 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIII.

their side. But about these two sects, and that of the Essens,

I have treated accurately in the second book of Jewish affairs.

7. But when Hyrcanus had put an end to this sedition, he

after that lived happily, and administered the government in

the best manner for thirty-one years, and then * died; leaving

behind him five sons. He was esteemed by God worthy of the

three greatest privileges, the government of his nation, the

dignity of the high priesthood, and prophecy, for God was

with him, and enabled him to know futurities; and to foretell

this in particular, that as to his two eldest sons, he foretold that

they would not long continue in the government of public af­

fairs; whose unhappy catastrophe will be worth our description,

that we may thence learn how very much they were inferior to

their father's happiness.

CHAP. XI.

Hem Aristobulus, when he had taken the government, first of all

put a diadem on his head, and was most barbarously cruel to

his mother and his brethren; and how after he had slain

Antigonus he himself died.

§ 1. .Now when their father Hyrcanus was dead, the eldest

son Aristobulus, intending to change the government into a

kingdom, for so he resolved to do, first of all put a diadem

* Here ends the high priesthood, and the life of this excellent person John  
Hyrcanus, and together with him the holy theocracy or divine government of the

Jewish nation, and its concomitant oracle by Prim. Now follows the profane

and tyrannical Jewish monarchy, first of the Assamonians or Maccabees, and
then

of Herod the Great, the Idumean, till the coming of the Messiah. See the note

on Antiq. B. III. chap. viii. sect. 9. Hear Strabo's testimony on this
occasion,

B. XVI. page 761, 762. "Those, says he, that succeeded Moses, continued for

"some time in earnest, both in righteous actions, and in piety; but after a
while,

"there were others that took upon them the high priesthood; at first
superstitious,

"and afterwards tyrannical persons. Such a prophet was Moses and those that
suc-

"ceeded him, beginning in a way not to be blamed, but changing for the worse.

"And when it openly appeared that the government was become tyrannical, Alex-

"ander was the first that set up himself for a king instead of a priest; and
his sons

"were Hyrcanus and Aristobulus." All in agreement with Josephus, excepting
this,

that Srabo omits the first king Aristobulus, whose reign being but a single
year,

seems haidly to have come to his knowledge. Nor indeed does Aristobulus, the
son

of Alexander, pretend that the name of long was taken before his father
Alexander

took it himself. Antiq. B. XIV. chap. iii. sect. 2. See also chap. xii. sect.
1. which

favour Strabo also. (And indeed if we may judge from the very different
characters

of the Egyptian Jews under high priests, and of the Palestine Jews under
kings,

in the two next centuries, we may well suppose, that the divine Shechinah was

removed into Egypt, and that the worshippers at the temple of Onias were
better

men than those at the temple of Jersualem.

