812 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIV.

11. At this time messengers came to Herod, and informed him

of what had been done; and wh«n he was come to Daphne by

Antioch, they told him of the ill fortune that had befallen his

brother; which yet he expected, from certain visions that ap­

peared to him in his dreams, which clearly foreshowed his bro­

ther's death. So he hastened his march; and when he came to

mount Libanus, he received about eight hundred of the men of

that place, having already with him also one Roman legion, and

with these he came to Ptolemais. He also marched thence by

night with his army, and proceeded along Galilee. Here it was

that the enemy met him, and fought him, and were beaten, and

shut up in the same place of strength whence they had sallied out

the day before. So he attacked the place in the morning, but by

reason of a great storm that was then very violent, he was able

to do nothing, but drew off his army into the neighbouring vil­

lages; yet as soon as the other legion that Antony sent him was

come to his assistance, those that were in garrison in the place

were afraid, and deserted it in the night time. Then did the

king march hastily to Jericho, intending to avenge himself on

the enemy for the slaughter of his brother; and when he had

pitched his tents, he made a feast for the principal commanders,

and after this collation was over, and he had dismissed his guests,

he retired to his own chamber; and here may one see what kind­

ness God had for the king, for the upper part of the house fell

down when nobody was in it, and so killed none, insomuch that

all the people believed that Herod was beloved of God, since he

had escaped such a great and surprising danger.

12. But the next day six thousand ot the enemy came down

from the tops of the mountains to fight the Romans, which great­

ly terrified them; and the soldiers that were in light armour

came near, and pelted the king's guards that were come out with

darts and stones, and one of them hit him on the side with a

dart. Antigonus also sent a commander against Samaria, whose

name was Pappus, with some forces, being desirous to show the

enemy how potent he was, and that he had men to spare in his

war with them: He sat down to oppose Macherus; but He­

rod, when he had taken five cities, took such as were left in

them, being about two thousand, and slew them, and burnt the

cities themselves, and then returned to go against Pappus, who

was encamped at a village called Isanas; and there ran in to him

many out of Jericho and Judea, near to which places he was,

and the enemy fell upon his men, so stout were they at this

time, and joined battle with them, but he beat them in the fight;

and in order to be revenged on them for the slaughter of his

brother, he pursued them sharply, and killed them as they ra»

