254 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIV.

This temper of his, not disposing him to meddle with public

affairs, and want of spirit, occasioned him to appear to specta­

tors to be degenerous and unmanly; while Aristobulus was of a

contrary temper, an active man, and one of a great and gener­

ous soul.

4. Since therefore Antipater saw that Hyrcanus did not attend

to what he said, he never ceased, day by day, to charge feigned

crimes upon Aristobulus, and to calumniate him before him, as

if he had a mind to kill him, and so, by urging him perpetually,

he advised him, and persuaded him to fly to Aretas, the king

of Arabia, and promised, that if he would comply with his ad­

vice, he would also himself assist him, [and go with him.] When

Hyrcanus heard this, he said that it was for his advantage

to fly away to Aretas. Now Arabia is a country that borders

upon Judea. However, Hyrcanus sent Antipater first to the

king of Arabia, in order to receive assurances from him, that

when he should come in the manner of a supplicant to him, he

would not deliver him up to his enemies. So Antipater having

received such assurances, returned to Hyrcanus to Jerusalem.

A while afterward he took Hyrcanus, and stole out of the city

by night, and went a great journey, and came and brought him

to the city called Petra, where the palace of Aretas was; and

as he was a very familiar friend of that king's he persuaded

him to bring buck Hyrcanus into Judea, and his persuasion

he continued every day without any intermission. He also pro­

posed to make him presents on that account. At length he pre­

vailed with Aretas in his suit. Moreover, Hyrcanus promised

him, that when he had been brought thither, and had received

his kingdom, he would restore that country, and those twelve

cities which his father Alexander had taken from the Arabians,

which were these, Medaba, Naballo, Libias, Tharabasa, Agala,

Athene, Zoar, Orone, Marissa, Rudda, Lussa, and Oruba.

CHAP. II.

How Aretas and Hyrcanus made an expedition against Aristobu­

lus, and besieged Jerusalem-; and houi Scaitrus, the Roman ge­

neral, raised the siege. Concerning the death of Onias.

§ 1. A FTER these promises had been given to Aretas, he

made an expedition against Aristobulus, with an army of fifty

thousand horse and foot, and beat him in the battle. And

when after that victory many went over to Hyrcanus as desert­

ers, Aristobulus was left desolate, and fled to Jerusalem; upon

which the king of Arabia took all his army and made an assault

upon the temple, and besieged Aristobulus therein, the peo­

