Chap. XVI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 247

"jured. Do thou, therefore, said he, when thou art come to

"Jerusalem, send'for the leading men among them, and show

"them my body, and with great appearance of sincerity, give

"them leave to use it as they themselves please, whether they

"will dishonour the dead body, by refusing it burial, as having

"severely suffered by my means, or whether in their anger they

"will offer any other injury to that body. Promise them also

"that thou wilt do nothing without them in the affairs of the

"kingdom. If thou dost but say this to them, I shall have the

"honour of a more glorious funeral from them than thou couldst

"have made for me; and when it is in their power to abuse my

"dead body, they will do it no injury at all, and thou wilt rule

"in safety."* So when he had given his wife this advice, he

died, after he had reigned twenty-seven years, and lived fifty

years within one.

CHAP. XVI.

How Alexandra, by gaining the good-will of the Pharisees, re­

tained the kingdom nine years, and then having done many glo­

rious actions, died.

§ 1. oo Alexandra when she had taken the fortress, acted as

her husband had suggested to her, and spake to the Pharisees,

and put all things into their power, both as to the dead body,

* It serins, by this dying advice of Alexander Janneus to his wife, that he had  
himself pursued the measures of his father Hyrcanus, and taken part with the
Sad-

ducees, who kept close to the written law, against the Pharisees, who hud
intro­

duced their own traditions, <:!.. xvi. § 2. and that he now saw a political
necessity of

submitting to the Pharisees, and their traditions hereafter, if his widow and
family

minded to retain their monarchial government or tyranny over the Jewish
nation:

Which sect yet, thus supported, were at least in great measure the ruin of the
re­

ligion, government, and nation of the Jews, and brought them into so wicked a
state,

that the vengeance of God came upon them to their utter excision. Just thus
did

Caiaphas politically advise the Jewish sanhedrim, John xi. 50. That it was
expedi­

ent for them that one man should die for the people, and that the whole nation
perish

not, and this in consequence of their own political supposal, ver. 48. that If
they let

Jesus alone, with his miracles, all mm would believe on him, and the Ramans
would

come and take away both their place and nation* "Which political cruciBxion of
Je­

sus of Nazareth brought down the vengeance of God upon them, and occasioned

those very Romans, of whom they seemed so much afraid, that to prevent it they

put him to death, actually to come and take away both their place and nation,
within

38 years afterwards. I heartily wish the politicians of Christendom would
consider

these and the like examples, and no longer sacrifice all virtue and religion
to their

pernicious schemes of government, to the bringing down the judgment of God

upon themselves, and the several nations entrusted to their care. But this is
a di­

gression: I wish it were an unseasonable one also. Josephus himself several
times

makes such digressions, and I here venture to follow him. See one of them at
the

conclusion of the very next chapter.

