. III. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 95

*' and they have slept out their wine in the night, they arise .  
"without knowing any thing they have done in their cups; J

"take these for signs of power, and by them discover that

"wine is the strongest, and most insuperable of all things."

4. As soon as the first had given the fore-mentioned demon­

strations of the strength of wine, he left off; and the next to him

began to speak about the strength of a king, and demonstrated

that it was the strongest of all, and more powerful than any

thing else that appears to have any force or wisdom. He began

his demonstration after the following manner; and said, "They

"are men who govern all things; they force the earth and the

"sea to become profitable to them in what they desire, and over

"these men do king's rule, and over them they have authority.

"Now those men who rule over that animal which is of all the

"strongest and most powerful, must needs deserve to be esteem-

"ed insuperable in power and force; for example, when these

"kings command their subjects to make war, and undergo

'" dangers, they are hearkened to, and when they send them

"against .their enemies, their power is so great that they are

"obeyed. They command men to level mountains, and to pull

'" down walls and towers; nay, when they are commanded to

"be killed and to kill, they submit to it, that they may not ap-

'" pear to transgress the king's commands, and when they have

"conquered, they bring what they have gained in the war to the

ft king. Those also who are not soldiers, but cultivate the

"ground, and plough it, and when, after they have endured the

"labour, and all the inconveniences of such works of husbandry,

'" they have reaped and gathered in their fruits, they bring trL-

"butes to the king. And whatsoever it is which the king says

"or commands, it is done of necessity, and that without any de-

"lay, while he in the mean time is satiated with all sorts Oi

'' food and pleasures, and sleeps in quiet. He is guarded by

"such as watch, and such as are, as it were fixed down to the

"place through fear, for no one dares leave him, even when he

'' is asleep, nor does any one go away and take care of his own

"affairs, but he esteems this one thing the only work of neces-

'" sity, to guard the king, and accordingly to this he wholly

*' addicts himself. How then can it be otherwise, but that it  
"must appear that the king exceeds all in strength, while so

"great a multitude obeys his injunctions?"

5. Now when this man had held his peace, the third of them,

who was Zorobabel; began to instruct them about women, and

about truth, who said thus: " Wine is strong, as is the king

"alsoj whom all men obey, but women are superior to them in

"power, for it was a woman that brought the king into the

"world; and for those that plant the vines and make the wine,

*' they are women who bear them, and bring them up: nor in­  

