Chap. III. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 151

tained leave to make us of their own customs, and this under

the patronage of Nicolaus of Damascus; for Agrippa gave sen­

tence, that he could not innovate. And if any one hath a mind

to know this matter accurately, let him peruse the hundred and

twenty-third, and hundred and twenty-fourth book of the his­

tory of this Nicolaus. Now, as to this determination of Agrip­

pa, it is not so much to be admired, for at this time our nation

had not made war against the Romans. But one may well be

astonished at the generosity of Vespasian and Titus, that after so

great wars and conquests which they had from us, they should

use such moderation. But I will now return to that part of my

history whence I made the present digression.

3. Now it happened that in the reign of Antiochus the Great,

who ruled over all Asia, that the Jews, as well as the inhabi­

tants of Celossyria, suffered greatly, and their land was sorely har-

rassed: For while he was at war with Ptolemy Philopater, and

with his son who was called Epiphanes, it fell out, that these

nations were equally sufferers, both when he was beaten, and

when he beat the others: So that they were very like to a ship

in a storm, which is tossed by the waves on both sides; and just

thus were they in their situation in the middle between Antio­

chus' prosperity and its change to adversity. But at length,

when Antiochus had beaten Ptolemy, he seized upon Judea:

And when Philopater was dead, his son sent out a great army

under Scopas, the general of his forces, against the inhabitants

of Celcesyria, who took many of their cities, and in particular

our nation; which, when he fell upon them, went over to him.

Yet was it not long afterward when Antiochus overcame Sco­

pas, in a battle fought at the fountains of Jordan, and destroyed

a great part of his army. But afterward, when Antiochus sub­

dued those cities of Celcesyria which Scopas had gotten into his

possession, and Samaria, with them the Jews of their own ac­

cord, went over to him, and received him into the city [Jeru­

salem], and gave plentiful provision to all his army, and to his

elephants, and readily assisted him when he besieged the garrison

which was in the citadel of Jerusalem. Wherefore Antiochus

thought it but just to requit the Jews' diligence and zeal in his

service: So he wrote to the generals of his armies, and to his

friends, and gave testimony to the good behaviour of the Jews

towards him, and informed them what rewards he had resolved

to bestow on them for that their behaviour. I will set down

presently the epistles themselves, which he wrote to the generals

concerning them, but will first produce the testimonies of Poly-

bius of Megalopolis, for thus does he speak, in the sixteenth

book of his history: "Now Scopas, the general of Ptolemy's

"army, went in haste to the superior parts of the country, and

