Chap. III. ANTIQUITIES OP THE JEWS. 397

duced Antipater as their antagonist, and imagined that he made

a good provision for discouraging their pride, and that after this

was done to the young men, there might be a proper season for

expecting these to be of a better disposition: But the event proved

otherwise than he intended, for the young men thought he did

them a very great injury; and as Antipater was a shrewd man,

when he had once obtained this degree of freedom, and began to

expect greater things than he had before hoped for, he had but

one single design in his head, and that Was, to distress his bre­

thren, and not at all to yield to them the pre-eminence, but to

keep close to his father, who was already alienated from them

by the calumnies he had heard about them, and ready to be

wrought upon in any way his zeal against them should advise

him to pursue, that he might be continually more and morese-'

vere against them. Accordingly, all the reports that were spread

abroad came from him, while he avoided himself the suspicion

of those discoveries proceeding from him, for he rather chose to

make use of those persons for his assistants that were unsuspected,

and such as might be believed to speak truth by reason of the

good-will they bore to the king; and indeed there were already

not a few who cultivated a friendship with Antipater, in hopes

of gaining somewhat by him, and these were the men who most

of all persuaded Herod, because they appeared to speak thus out'

of their good-will to him: and while these joint accusations,

'which from various foundations supported one another's veracity,

the young men themselves afforded farther occasions to An­

tipater also: for they were observed to shed tears often, on ac­

count of the injury that was offered them, and had their mother

in their mouths, and among their friends they ventured to re­

proach their father, as not acting justly by them; all which

things were with an evil intention reserved in memory by An­

tipater against a proper opportunity; and when they were told

to Herod, with aggravations, increased the disorder so much, that *

it brought a great tumult into the family; for while the king was

very angry at imputations that were laid upon the sons of Mariam-

ne, and was desirous to humble them, he still increased the honour

that he had bestowed on Antipater; and was at last so overcome-

by his persuasions, that he brought his mother to court also.

He also wrote frequently to Caesar in favour of him, and more

earnestly recommended him to his particular care. And when

Agrippa was returning to Rome, after he had finished his ten

* years'government in Asia, Herod sailed fromJudea; ami  
when he met with him, he had none with him but Antipater,

* This interval of ten years for die duration of Marcus Agrippa's government in  
Asia, seems to be true, and agreeable to the Roman liiitory. See Usher's
Annals

It A. M. .1392.

vpL. iI. 3 C 2?

