ISO ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XI.

pencd that Snnballat was then in years. But there was now a

great disturbance among the people of Jerusalem, because many

of those priests and Levites were entangled in such matches;

for they all revolted to Manasseh, and Sanballat afforded

them money, and divided among them land for tillage, and

habitations also, and all this in order every way to gratify his

son-in-law.

3. About this time it was that Darius heard how Alexander

had passed over the Hellespont, and had beaten his lieutenants

in the battle of Granicum, and was proceeding farther : where­

upon he gathered together an army of horse and foot, and deter­

mined that he would meet the Macedonians before they should

assault and conquer all Asia. So he passed over the river Eu-

Ehrates, and came over Taurus, the Cicilian mountain, and at

ssus of Cilicia he waited for the enemy, as ready there to give

him battle. Upon which Sanballat was glad that Darius was

come down; and told Manasseh that he would suddenly perform

his promises to him, and this as soon as ever Darius should

come back; after he had beaten his enemies; for not he only,

but all those that were in Asia also, were persuaded that the

Macedonians would not so much as come to a battle with the

Persians, on account of their multitude. But the event proved

otherwise than they expected, for the king joined battle with the

Macedonians, and was beaten, and lost a great part of his army.

His mother also, and his wife and children, were taken captives,

and he fled into Persia. So Alexander came into Syria, and took

Damascus; and when he had obtained Sidon, he besieged Tyre,

when he sent an epistle to the Jewish high priest, "To send him

"some auxiliaries, and to supply his army with provisions;

"and that what presents he formerly sent to Darius, he would

"now send to him, and choose the friendship of the Macedonians

*' and that he should never repent of so doing." But the high  
priests answered the messengers, That" he had given his oath to

"Darius not to bear arms against him; and he said, that he

"would not transgress this while Darius was in the land of the

"living." Upon hearing this answer, Alexander was very an­

gry; and though he determined not to leave Tyre, which was

just ready to be taken, yet as soon as he had taken it, he threat­

ened that he would make an expedition against the Jewish high

priest, and through him teach all men to whom they must keep

their oaths. So when he had with a good deal of pains, during

the siege, taken Tyre, and had settled its affairs, he came to the

city of Gaza, and besieged both the city, and him who was go­

vernor of the garrison, whose name was Babemeses.

4. But Sanballat thought he had now gotten a proper oppor­

tunity to make his attempt, so he renounced Darius, and, taking

with him seven thousand of his own subjects, he came to Alex­

