330 ANTIQUIT1KS OF THE JEWS. Book XV.

CHAP. IV.

How Cleopatra, 'when she had gotten Jrom Antony some parts

of Judea and Arabia, came into Judea ,' and how Herod gave

her many presents, and conducted her on her isoay lack to

Egypt.

§ 1. .N ow at this time the affairs of Syria were in confusion

by Cleopatra's constant persuasions to Antony to make an at­

tempt upon every body's dominions; for she persuaded him

to take those dominions away from their several princes,

and bestow them upon her; and she had a mighty influence

upon him, by reason of his being enslaved to her by his af­

fections. She was also by nature very covetous, and stuck at

no wickedness. She had already poisoned her brother, because

she knew that he was to be king of Egypt, and this when he was

but fifteen years old: and she got her sister Arsinoe to be slain,

by the means of Antony, when she was a supplicant at Diana's

temple at Ephesus; for if there were but any hopes of getting

money, she would violate both temples and sepulchres. Nor

was there any holy place, that was esteemed the most inviol­

able, from which she would not fetch the ornaments it had in it;

nor any place so profane, but was to suffer the most flagitious

treatment possible from her, if it could but contribute somewhat

to the covetous humour of this wicked creature: yet did not all

this suffice so extravagant a woman, who was a slave to her

lusts, but she still imagined that she wanted every thing she

could think of, and did her utmost to gain it; for which rea­

son she hurried Antony on perpetually to deprive others of

their dominions, and give them to her. And as she went

over Syria with him, she contrived to get it into her possession,

so he slew Lysanius, the son of Ptolemy, accusing him of his

bringing the Parthians upon those countries. She also petition­

ed Antony to give her Judea and Arabia, and in order thereto,

desired him to take these countries away from their present go­

vernors. As for Antony, he was so entirely overcome by this

woman, that one would not think her conversation only could

do it, but that he was some way or other bewitched to do what­

soever she would have him; yet did the grossest parts of her in­

justice make him so ashamed, that he would not always heark­

en to her, to do those flagrant enormities she would have per­

suaded him to. That therefore he might not totally deny her, nor,

by doing every thing which she enjoined him, appear openly to

be an ill man, he took some parts of each of those countries

away from their former governors, and gave them to her. Thus

