Chap. II. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 321

ways possible, that he might have no suspicion of any treach­

erous design against him. He also did other things, in order to

secure his government, which yet occasioned a sedition in his

own family; for being cautious how he made any * illustrious..'

person the high priest of God, he sent for an obscure priest out/

of Babylon whose name was Ananelus, and bestowed the higty

priesthood upon him.

5. However, Alexandra, the daughter of Hyrcanus, and wife

of Alexander, the son of Aristobulus the king, who had also

brought Alexander [two] children, could not bear this indig­

nity. Now this son was one of the greatest comeliness, and was

called Aristobulus; and the'daughter, Mariamne, was married

to Herod, and eminent for her beauty also. This Alexandra

was much disturbed, and took this indignity offered to her son

exceeding ill, that while he was alive, any one else should be sent

for to have the dignity of the high priesthood conferred upon

him. Accordingly she wrote to Cleopatra (a musician assisting

her in taking care to have her letters carried) to desire her in­

tercession with Antony, in order to gain the high priesthood for

her son.

6. But as Antony was slow in granting this request, his friend

f Dellius came into Judea upon some affairs, and when he saw

Aristobulus, he stood in admiration at the tallness and hand­

someness of the child, and no less at Mariamne, the king's wife,

and was open in his commendations of Alexandra, as the mo­

ther of most beautiful children: And when she came to discourse

with him, he persuaded her to get pictures drawn of them both,

and to send them to Antony, for that when he saw them, he

would deny her nothing that she should ask. Accordingly Alex­

andra was elevated with these words of his, and sent the pictures

to Antony. Dellius also talked extravagantly, and said, That

"these children seemed not derived from men, but from some

"god or other." His design in doing so was to entice Antony

into lewd pleasures with them, who was ashamed to send for

* Here we have an eminent example of Herod's worldly and profane politics-  
when by the abuse of his unlawful and usurped power, to make whom he pleased

high priest, in the person of Ananelus, he occasioned such disturbances in his
king.

dom, and his own family, as suffered him to enjoy no lasting peace or
tranquillity

ever afterward: and such is frequently the effect of profane court politics
about mat­

ters of religion in other ages and nations. The Old Testament is full of the
mis­

eries the people of the Jews derived from such court politics, especially in
and af­

ter the days of Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, who made Israel to sin; who gave
the

most pernicious example of it; who brought on the grossest corruption of
religion

by it; and the punishment of whose family for it was most remarkable. The
cat:e

is too well known to stand in need of particular citations.

t Of this wicked Dellius, sec the note on the War, B. I. ch. xv. sect. 3. vol.
111.

