Chap. V. ANTigumES or THE JEWS. 263

nia, and Arethusa, to their own inhabitants: these were in the

inland parts. Besides those that had been demolished, and also

of the maritime cities, Gaza, and Joppa, and Dora, and Strato's

Tower; which last Herod rebuilt after a glorious manner, and

adorned with havens, and temples, and changed its name to Ce-

sarea. All these Pompey left in a state of freedom, and joined

them to the province of Syria.

5. Now the occasions of this misery which came upon Jeru­

salem, were Hyrcanus and Aristobulus, by raising a sedition

one against the other; for now we lost our liberty, and became

subject to the Romans, and were deprived of that country which

we had gained by our arms from the Syrians, and were compel­

led to restore it to the Syrians. Moreover, the Romans ex­

acted of us, in a little time, above ten thousand talents. And

the royal authority, which was a dignity formerly bestowed on

those that were high priests, by the right of their family, be­

came the property of private men. But of these matters we

shall treat in their proper places. Now Pompey committed Cce-

lesyria, as far as the river Euphrates and Egypt, to Scaurus,

with two Roman legions, and then went away to Cilicia, r.nd

made haste to Rome. He also carried bound along with him

Aristobulus and his children; for he had two daughters, and as

many sons; the one of which ran away, but the younger, An-

tigonus, was carried to Rome, together with h5s sisters.

CHAP. V.

How Scaurus made a league of mutual assistance ivith Aretas.

And what Gabinius did in Judea, after he had conquered

Alexander the son of Aristobulus.

§ 1. OCAURUS made now an expedition against Petrea, in

Arabia, and set on fire all the places round about it, because of

the great difficulty of access to it. And as his army was pinch­

ed by famine, Antipater furnished him with corn out of Judea.

and with whatever else he wanted, and this at the command of

Hyrcanus. And when he was sent to Aretas, as an ambassador

by Scaurus, because he had lived with him formerly, he per­

suaded Aretas to give Scaurus a sum of money, to prevent the

burning of his country; and undertook to be his surety for three

hundred talents. So Scaurus, upon these terms, ceased to make

war any longer: which was done as much at Scaurus' desire,

as at the desire of Aretas.

2. Some time after this, when Alexander, the son of Aristo­

bulus, made an incursion into Judea, Gabinius came from Rome

to Syria, as commander of the Roman forces. He did many

