150 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XII.

have in this, that whereas the Jews do not make use of* oil pre­

pared by foreigners, they receive a certain sum of money from

the proper officers belonging to their exercises as the value

would have deprived them of, in the last war, Mucianus, who

was then president of Syria, preserved it to them. And when

the people of Alexandria and of Antioch did after that, at the

tune that Vespasian and Titus his son governed the habitable

earth, pray that these privileges of citizens might be taken away,

they did not obtain their request. In which behaviour any

one may discern the f equity and generosity of the Romans, es­

pecially of Vespasian and Titus, who, although they had been

at a great deal of pains in the war against the Jews, and were

exasperated against them, because they did not deliver up their

weapons to them, but continued the war to the very last, yet

did not they take away any of their forementioned privileges

belonging to them as citizens, but restrained their anger; and

overcame the prayers of the Alexandrians and Antiochians, who

were a very powerful people, insomuch that they did not yield

to them, neither out of their favour to those people, nor out of

their old grudge at those whose wicked opposition they had sub­

dued in the war; nor would they alter any of the ancient favours

granted to the Jews, but said, that those who had borne arms

against them, and fought them, had suffered punishment already,

and that it was not just to deprive those that had not offended of

the privileges they enjoyed.

2. We also know that Marcus Agrippa was of the like dis­

position towards the Jews: For when the people of Ionia were

very angry at them, and besought Agrippa, that they, and they

only, might have those privileges of citizens which Antiochus,

the grandson of Seleucus (who by the Greeks was called the

God,) had bestowed on them; and desired that if the Jews

were to be joint-partakers with them, they might be obliged to

worship the gods they themselves worshipped: but when these

matters were brought to the trial, the Jews prevailed, and ob­

* The use of oil was much greater, and the donatives of it much more valuable  
in Judea, and the neighbouring countries, than it is amongst us. It was also,
in the

days of Josephus, thought unlawful for Jews to make use of any oil that was

prepared by heathens, perhaps on account of some superstitions intermixed with

its preparation by those heathens. When therefore the heathens were to make

them a donative of oil, they paid them money instead of it. See Of the War, B.

II. ch. xxii. sect. 2. vol. III. the Life of Josephus sect. 13. vol. III. and
Hudson's

note on the place before us.

'(' This, and the like great and just characters, of the justice and equity,
and ge­

nerosity of the old Romans, both to the Jews and other conquered nations,
affords

us a very good reason why Almighty God, upon the rejection of the Jews for
their

wickedness, chose them for his people, and first established Christianity in
that

empire. Of which matter, see Josepbus here, sect. 2. as also Antiq. B. XIV.
ch.

X. sect. 21, 23. B. XVI. chap. 2. sect. 4.

