284 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIV.

16. The declaration of Lucius Lentullus the consul: "I have

* dismissed those Jews who are Roman citizens, and who ap-

* pear to me to have their religious rites, and to observe the  
"laws of the Jews at Ephesus, on account of the superstition

"they are under. This act was done before the thirteenth of

"the calends of October."

17. "Lucius Antonius, the son of Marcus, vice-questor, and

"vice-pretor, to the magistrates, senate, and people of the

"Sardians, sendeth greeting: those Jews that are our fellow-

"citizens of Rome, came to me, and demonstrated that they

"had an assembly of their own, according to the laws of their

"forefathers, and this from the beginning, as also a place of

"their own, wherein they determined their suits and controver-

"sies with one another: Upon their petition therefore to me,

"that these might be lawful for them, I gave order that these

"their privileges be preserved, and they be permitted to do

"accordingly."

18. The declaration of Marcus Publius, the son of Spurius,

and of Marcus the son of Marcus, and of Lucius the son of Pub­

lius: "We went to the proconsul, and informed him of what

"Dositheus, the son of Cleopatrida of Alexandria desired, that,

"if he thought good, he would dismiss those Jews who were

"Roman citizens, and were wont to observe the rites of the

"Jewish religion, on account of the superstition they were un-

"der. Accordingly, he did dismiss them. This was done be-

"fore the thirteenth of the calends of October."

19. "In the month Quintilis, when Lucius Lentullus and

"Caius Marcellus were consuls; and there were present Titus

"Appius Bulbus, the son of Titus, lieutenant of the Horatian

"tribe. Titus Tongius of the Crustamine tribe, Quintus

"Resius the son of Quintus, Titus Pompeius the son of Titus

"Cornelius Longinus, Caius Servilius Bracchus, the son of

"Caius, a military tribune, of the Terentine tribe, Publius

"Clusius Gallus, the son of Publius, of the Veturian tribe,

"Caius Teutius the son of Caius, a military tribune, of the

"Emilian tribe, Sextus Atilius Serranus, the son of Sextus, of

"the Esquiline tribe, Caius Pompeius, the son of Caius, of the

"Sabbatine tribe, Titus Appius Menander, the son-of Titus

"Publius Servilius Strabo, the son of Publius, Lucius Paccius

"Capito, the son of Lucius, of the Colline tribe. Aulus Fu-

"rius Tertius, the son of Aulus, and Appius Menas. In the

"presence of these it was that Lentullus pronounced this decree:

"I have before the tribunal dismissed those Jews that are Ro-

"man citizens, and are accustomed to observe the sacred rites

"of the Jews at Ephesus, on account of the superstition they

"are under."

