248 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIII.

and as to the affairs of the kingdom, and thereby pacified their

anger against Alexander, and made them bear good-will and

friendship to him; who then came among the multitude, and

made speeches to them, and laid before them the actions of Alex­

ander, and told them that they had lost a righteous king; and

by the commendation they gave him, they brought them to

grieve, and to be in heaviness for him, so that he had a funeral

more splendid than had any of the kings before him. Alexander

left behind him two sons, Hyrcanus, and Aristobulus, but com­

mitted the kingdom to Alexandra. Now, as to these two sons,

Hyrcanus was indeed unable to manage public affairs, and de­

lighted rather in a quiet life; but the younger, Aristobulus,

was an active and a bold man; and for this woman herself,

Alexandra, she was loved by the multitude, because she seemed

displeased at the offences her husband had been guilty of.

2. So she made Hyrcanus high priest, because he was the

elder, but much more because he cared not to meddle with poli­

tics, and permitted the Pharisees to do every thing; to whom

also she ordered the multitude to be obedient. She also restored

again those practices which the Pharisees had introduced, ac­

cording to the traditions of their forefathers, and which her

father-in-law, Hyrcanus, had abrogated. So she had indeed the

name of the Regent, but the Pharisees had the authority; for it

was they who restored such as had been banished, and set such as

were prisoners at liberty, and, to say all at once, they differed

in nothing from lords. However, the queen also took care of

the affairs of the kingdom, and got together a great body of

mercenary soldiers, and increased her own army to such a de­

gree, that she became terrible to the neighbouring tyrants, and

took hostages of them: And the country was entirely at peace,

excepting the Pharisees; for they disturbed the queen, and de­

sired that she should kill those who persuaded Alexander to slay

the eight hundred men; after which they cut the throat of one

of them, Diogenes: and after him they did the same to several,

one after another, till the men that were the most potent came

into the palace, and Aristobulus with them, for he seemed to be

displeased at what was done, and it appeared openly, that if he

had an opportunity, he would not permit his mother to go on

so. "These put the queen in mind what great dangers they had

"gone through, and great things they had done, whereby they

"had demonstrated the firmness of their fidelity to their master,

"insomuch that they had received the greatest marks of favour

"from him; and they begged of her, that she would not ut-

"terly blast their hopes, as it now happened, that when they

"had escaped the hazards that arose from their [open] enemies,

"they were to be cut off at home, by their [private] enemies,

