368 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIV.

temple, should send their money to Cos, nor is it likely that

the Jews, who are inhabitants of Alexandria, should do so nei足

ther, since they were in no fear of Mithridates. And Strabo

himself bears witness to the same thing in another place, that at

the same time that Sylla passed over into Greece, in order to fight

against Mithridates, he sent Lucullus to put an end to a sedition

that our nation, of whom the habitable earth is full, had raised

in Cyrene; where he speaks thus: "There were four classes of

"men among those of Cyrene, that of citizens, that of hus-

"bandmen, the third of strangers, and the fourth of Jews. Now

"these Jews are already gotten into all cities, and it is hard to

"find a place in the habitable earth that hath not admitted this

"tribe of men, and is not possessed by it: And it hath come to

"pass that Egypt and Cyrene, as having the same governors,

"and a great number of other nations, imitate their way of

"living, and maintain great bodies of these Jews in a peculiar

"manner, and grow up to greater prosperity with them, and

"make use of the same laws with that nation also. Accord-

"ingly the Jews have places assigned them in Egypt, wherein

"they inhabit, besides what is peculiarly allotted to this nation

"at Alexandria, which is a large part of that city. There is

"also an ethnarch allowed them, who governs the nation; and

"distributes justice to them, and takes care of their contracts,

"and of the laws to them belonging, as if he were the ruler of

"a free republic. In Egypt, therefore, this nation is power-

"ful, because the Jews were originally Egyptians, and because

"the land wherein they inhabit, since they went thence, is near

"to Egypt. They also removed into Cyrene, because that this

"land adjoined to the government of Egypt, as well as does

"Judea, or rather was formerly under the same government."

And this is what Strabo says.

3. So when Crassus had settled all things as he himself pleas足

ed, he marched into Parthia, where both he himself and all his

army perished, as hath been related elsewhere. But Cassius

as he fled from Rome to Syria, took possession of it, and was an

impediment to the Parthians, who by reason of their victory

over Crassus, made incursions upon it: And as he came back to

Tyre, he went up into Judea also, and fell upon Tarichae, and

presently took it, and carried about thirty thousand Jews cap足

tives; and slew Pitholaus, who succeeded Aristobulus in his se足

ditious practices, and that by the persuasion of Antipater, who

proved to have great interest in him, and was at that time in

'great repute with the Idumeans also: Out of which nation he

married a wife, who was the daughter of one of their eminent

men, and her name was * Cypros, by whom he had four sons,

* ^>r. Hudson observes, that the name of this wife of Antipater's in Josephus  
was Cyprus, as an Hebrew termination, but not Cj/pris, the Greek name for
Venu%

as some critics were ready to corrtct it.

