Chap. 11. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 9\

"treasurer M'ithridates, and Zorobabel, the governor of the

"Jews, that they may lay the foundations of the temple, and

". may build it sixty cubits high, and of the same latitude, making

"three edifices of polished stones, and one of the wood of the

"country, and the same order extends to the altar, whereon

"they offer sacrifices to God. I require also, that the sacri-

"fices for these things may be given out of my revenues. More.

"over, I have also sent the Vessels which king Nebuchadnezzai

"pillaged out of the temple, and have given them to Mithri-

"dates, the treasurer, and to Zorobabel the governor of the

"Jews, that they may have them carried to Jerusalem, and

"may restore them to the temple of God. Now their * num-

"ber is as follows: fifty chargers of gold, and five hundred of

"silver; forty Thericleon cups of gold, and five hundred of

"silver; fifty basons of gold, and five hundred of silver, thirty

"vessels for pouring, [the drink offerings], and three hundred

"of silver; thirty vials of gold, and two thousand four hundred

"of silver; with a thousand other large vessels. I permit them

"to have the same honour which they were used to have from

"their forefathers, as also for their small cattle, and for wine

"and oil, two hundred and five thousand and five hundred

"drachmae; and for wheat flour, twenty thousand and five

"hundred artabae; and I give order, that these expenses shall

"be given them out of the tributes due from Samaria. The

"priests shall also offer these sacrifices according to the laws of

"Moses in Jerusalem: and when they offer them, they shall pray

"to God for the preservation of the king and of his family^

"that the kingdom of Persia may continue. But my will is^

"that those who disobey these injunctions, and make them void,

"shall be hung upon a cross, and their substance brought in-

"to the king's treasury." And such was the import of this

epistle. Now the number of those that came out of captivity

to Jerusalem, were forty-two thousand four hundred and sixty-

two.

CHAR II.

Hffw upon itie death of Cyrus, the Jews were hindered in building

of the temple by the Cutheans, and the neighbouring governors:

and how Cambyses entirely forbade the Jews to do any such ,

thing.

ยง I. WHEN the foundations of the temple were laying, and -

when the Jews were very zealous about building it, the neigh-

* Of the true number of golden and silver vessels here gnd elsewhere belonging  
to the temple of Solomon, see my Description of Temples, chap. xiii.

VOL. II. M 17

