30 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book IX.

and he retained the kingdom sixteen years. He was a * good man

and in his disposition was not at all like his father. Now at

this time it was, that when Elisha the prophet, who was already

very old, and was now fallen into a disease, the king of Israel

came to visit him; and when he found him very near death he be­

gan to weep in his sight, and lament, "to call him his father,

"and his weapons, because it was by his means that he never

"made use of his weapons against his enemies, but that he over-

"came his own adversaries by his prophecies, without fighting;

"and that he was now departing this life, and leaving him to the

"Syrians, that were already armed, and to other enemies of his

"that were under their power: so he said it was not safe for

"hun to live any longer, but that it would be well for him to

"hasten to his end, and depart out of this life with him." As the

king was thus bemoaning himself, Elisha comforted him, and

bid the king bend a bow that was brought him; and when the

king had fitted the bow for shooting, Elisha tookhold of his hands

and bid him shoot; and when he had shot three arrows, and then

left off", Elisha said, " If thou hadst shot more arrows thou hadst

"cut the kingdom of Syria up by the roots, but since thou hast

"been satisfied with shooting three times only, thou shalt fight

"and beat the Syrians no more times than three, that thou may-

"est recover that country which they cut off from thy king-

"dom in the reign of thy father." So when the king had heard

that, he departed; and a little while after, the prophet died. He

was a man celebrated for righteousness; and in eminent favour

with God. He also performed wonderful and surprising works

by prophesy, and such as were gloriously preserved in memory

by the Hebrews. He also obtained a magnificent funeral, such

a one indeed as it was fit a person so beloved of God should have.

Jt also happened, that at that time certain robbers cast a man

whom they had slain into Elisha's grave, and upon his dead body,

* This character of Joash, the son of Jehoahaz, that he was a good man,  
"and in his disposition not at all like to his father," seems a direct
contradiction

to our ordinary copies, which say, 2 Kings xiii. 11. that "he did evil in the

sight of the Lord; and that he departed not from all the sins of Jeroboam, the

son of Nebat, who wade Israel to sin, he walked therein.'* Which copies are

here the truest, it is hard positively to determine. If Josephus' be true,
this Jo-

ash is the single instance of a good king over the ten tribes: If the other be
true,

we have not one such example. The account that follows in all copies, of
Elisha

<he prophet's concern for him, and his concern for Elisha, greatly favour
Josephus'

copies, and suppose this king to have been then a good man, and no idolater,
with

whom God's piophets used not to be so familiar. Upon the whole, since it
appears

even by Josephus' own account, that Amaziah the good king of Judah, while he

was a good king, was forbidden to make use of the 100,000 auxiliaries, he had
of

this Joash the king of Israel, as if he and they were then idolaters, 2 Chron.
xxv.

6—9. It is most likely that these different characters of Joash suited the
different

parts of his reign, and that according to our common copies, he was at first a
wicked

king, and afterwards was reclaimed, and became a good one, according to
Josephus,

