186 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XII.

5, And when Nicanor came down from the citadel unto

the temple, some of the priests and elders met him, and saluted

him; and showed him the sacrifices which they said they of­

fered to God for the king: upon which he blasphemed, and

threatened them, that unless the people would deliver up Judas

to him, upon his return he would pull down their temple.

And when he had thus threatened them, he departed from Je­

rusalem: But the priests fell into tears out of grief of what he

had said, and besought God to deliver them from their ene­

mies. But now for Nicanor, when he was gone out of Je­

rusalem, and was at a certain village called Bethhoron, he there

pitched his camp, another army out of Syria having joined

him: And Judas pitched his camp at Adasa, another village,

which was thirty furlongs distant from Bethhoron, having no

more than one thousand soldiers. And when he had encour­

aged them not to be dismayed at the multitude of their enemies,

nor to regard how many they were against whom they were go­

ing to fight, but to consider who they themselves were, and for

what great rewards they hazarded themselves, and to attack the

enemy courageously, he led them out to fight, and joining bat­

tle with Nicanor, which proved to be a severe one, he overcame

the enemy, and slew many of them; and at last Nicanor himself,

as he was fighting, gloriously fell. Upon whose fall the army

did not stay, but when they had lost their general they were put

to flight and threw down their arms; Judas also pursued them

and slew them; and gave notice by the sound of the trumpets to

the neighbouring villages, that he had conquered the enemy;

which, when the inhabitants heard, they put on their armour

hastily, and met their enemies in the face as they were running

away, and slew them, insomuch that not one of them escaped out

of this battle, and were in number nine thousand. This victory

happened to fall on the thirteenth day of that month, which

by the Jews is called Adar, and the Macedonians Dystrus;

and the Jews thereon celebrate this victory every year, and

esteem it as a festival day. After which the Jewish nation

were, for a while, free from wars, and enjoyed- peace; but

afterward they returned into their former state of wars and

hazards.

6. But now as the high priest Alcimus was resolving to pull

down the wall of the sanctuary, which had been there of old time,

cnnor contrary to the words following, which imply, that he who was beaten
fled in­

to (he citadel, which for certain belonged to the city of David, or to Mount
Zion,

and was in the possession of Nicanor's garrison, and not of Judas': As also it
is

contrary to the express words of Josephus' original author, 1 Mac-nib- vii.
32. who

says that Nicanor lost about 500O men, and fled to the city of David.

