296 ANTIQUITIES OK THE JEWS. Book XIV.

CHAP. XIII.

Harm Antony made Herod and Phasaelus tetrarchs, after they

had been accused to no purpose; and how the Parthians, when

they brought Antigonus into Judea, took Hyrcanus and Pha-

saelus captives. Herod's fight,- and what afflictions Hyrcanus

and Phasaelus endured.

$ 1. WHEN after this Antony came into Syria, Cleopatra

met him in Cilicia, and brought him to fall in love with her.

And there came now also a hundred of the most potent of the

Jews to accuse Herod and those about him, and set the men

of the greatest eloquence among them to speak. But Messala

contradicted them, on behalf of the young men, and all this

in the presence of Hyrcanus, who was * Herod's father-in-law

already. When Antony had heard both sides at Daphne, he

asked Hyrcanus who they were that governed the nation best?

He replied, Herod and his friends. Hereupon Antony, by rea­

son of the old hospitable friendship he had made with his father

[Antipater,] at that time when he was with Gubinius, he made

both Herod and Phasaelus tetrarchs, and committed the public

affairs of the Jews to them, and wrote letters to that purpose.

He also bound fifteen of their adversaries, and was going to kill

them, but that Herod obtained their pardon.

2. Yet did not these men continue quiet when they were come

back, but a thousand of the Jews came to Tyre to meet him

there, whither the report was that he would come. But Anto­

ny was corrupted by the money which Herod and his brother

had given him, and so he gave order to the governor of the place

to punish the Jewish ambassadors, who were for making inno-

'vations, and to settle the government upon Herod: but Herod

went out hastily to them, and Hyrcanus was with him (for they

stood upon the shore before the city,) and he charged them to

go their ways, because great mischief would befall them if they

went on with their accusation. But they did not acquiesce:

whereupon the Romans ran upon them with their daggers, and

slew some, and wounded more of them, and the rest fled away

and went home, and lay still in great consternation: and when

the people made a clamour against Herod, Antony was so pro­

voked at.it that he slew the prisoners.

3. Now, in the second year, Pacorus, the king of Parthia's

* We may here take notice, that espousals alone were of old esteemed a sufficient  
foundation for affmity, Hyrcanus being here called father-in-law to Herod,
because

his grand daughter Mariamne was betrothed to him, although the marriage was

not completed till four years afterward. See Mat. i. 16.

