Chap. XI. ASTIO_UITIES or iht JEWS.

"age, but exposed to one son, who hath very ill managed the

"hopes thou hast given him, and to relations, whose ci jath thou

"hast so often resolved on thyself? Dost not thou take notice,

"that the very silence of the multitude at once sees the crime

"and abhors the fact? The whole army and the officers have

"commiseration on the poor unhappy youths, and hatred to

"those that are the actors in this matter." These words the

king heard, and for some lime with good temper. But what

cim one say? When Tero plainly touched upon the bad beha足

viour and perfidiousness of his domestics, he was moved at it:

but Tero went on farther, and by degrees used an unbounded

military freedom of speech, nor was he so well disciplined as to

accommodate himself to the time: So Herod was greatly dis足

turbed, and seeming to be rather reproached by this speech,

than to be hearing what was for his advantage, while he learned

hereby, that both the soldiers abhorred the thing he was about,

and the officers had indignation at it, he gave orders that all

whom Tero had named, and Tero himself, should be bound

and kept in prison.

6. When this was over, one Trypho, who was the king's

barber, took the opportunity, and came and told the king, that

Tero would often have persuaded him, that when he trimmed him

with a razor, to cut his throat, for that by this means he should

be among the chief of Alexander's friends, and receive great re足

wards from him. When he had said this, the king gave order

that Tero and his son, and the barber, should be tortured, which

was done accordingly; but while Tero bore up himself, his

son seeing his father already in a sad case, and had no hope

of deliverance, and perceiving what would be the consequence

of his terrible sufferings, said, that "if the king would free him

"and his father from these torments, for what he should say,

"he would tell the truth." And when the king had given his

word to do so, he said that "there was an agreement made, that

"Tero should lay violent hands on the king, because it was

"easy for him to come when he was alone; and that if, when

"he had done the thing, he should suffer death for it, as was

"not unlikely, it would be an act of generosity done in favour

"of Alexander." This was what Tero's son said, and thereby

freed his father from the distress he was in; but uncertain it

is whether he had been thus forced to speak what was tiv.c,

or whether it were a contrivance of his in order to procure his

own and his father's deliverance from their miseries.

7. As for Herod, if he had before any doubt about the slaugh足

ter of his sons, there was now no longer any room left in his soul

for it; but he had banished away whatsoever might afford him

the least suggestion of reasoning better about this matter, so be

