Chap. V. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 211

battle as well as he was able; but those that were laid in am­

bush by Demetrius' generals being behind them, the Jews were

afraid lest they should be caught in the midst between two bo­

dies, and perish, so they ran away in haste, and indeed all the

rest left Jonathan; but a few there were, in number about fifty,

who staid with him, and with them Mattathias the son of Ab­

salom, and Judas the son of Chapseus, who were commanders

of the whole army. These marched boldly, and like men des­

perate, against the enemy, and so pushed them, that by their

courage they daunted them, and with their weapons in their

hands, they put them to flight. And when those soldiers of Jo­

nathan that had retired, saw the enemy giving way, they got

together after their flight, and pursued them with great vio­

lence, and this did they as far as Kadesh, where the camp of

the enemy lay.

8. Jonathan having thus gotten a glorious victory, and slain

two thousand of the enemy, returned to Jerusalem. So when he

saw that all his affairs prospered, according to his mind, by the

providence of God, he sent ambassadors to the Romans, being

desirous of renewing that friendship which their nation had with

them formerly. He enjoined the same ambassadors, that, as

they came back, they should go to the Spartans, and put them

in mind of their friendship and kindred. So when the ambas­

sadors came to Rome, they went into their senate, and said what

they were commanded by Jonathan the high priest to say, how

he had sent them to confirm their friendship. The senate then

confirmed what had been formerly decreed concerning their

friendship with the Jews; and gave them letters to carry to all

the kings of Asia and Europe, and to the governors of the cities,

that they might safely conduct them to their own country.

Accordingly, as they returned, they came to Sparta, and deliver­

ed the epistle which they had received of Jonathan to them; a

copy of which here follows: ". Jonathan the high priest of the

"Jewish nation, and the senate, and body of the people of the

"Jews, to the cphori and senate, and people of the Lacedemo-

"nians, send greeting: If you be well, and both your public and

"private affairs be agreeable to your mind, it is accordisg to

"our wishes. We are well also. When in former times an

"epistle was brought to Onias, who was then our high priest,

"from Areus, who at that time was your king, by Demoteles,

"concerning the kindred that was between us and you, a copy

"of which is here subjoined, we both joyfully received the

"epistle, and were well pleased with Demoteles and Areus, al-

"though we did not need such a demonstration, because * we

* This clause is otherwise rendered in the 6rst book of Maccabees, xii. 9. "tor  
that we have the holy books of scripture in our hands to comfort us." The
Hebrew

VOL. II. D D 21

