198 ANTIQUITIES OF THK JEWS. Book XIII.

them that he might build a temple in Egypt like to that at Je­

rusalem, and might ordain Levites and priests out of their own

stock. The chief reason why he was desirous so to do, was,

that he relied upon the prophet Isaiah, who lived above six

hundred years before, and foretold that there certainly was to

be a temple built to Almighty God in Egypt by a man that was

a Jew. Onias was elevated with this prediction; and wrote the

following epistle to Ptolemy and Cleopatra: "Having done

"many and great things for you in the affairs of the war, by the

"assistance of God, and that in Celesyria and Phenicia, I came

"at length with the Jews to Leontopolis, and to other places

"of your nation, where I found that the greatest part of your

"people had temples in an improper manner, and that on this

"account they bare ill will one against another, which happens

"to the Egyptians by reason of the multitude of their temples,

"and the difference of opinions about divine worship. Now I

"found a very fit place in a castle that hath its name from the

"country Diana; this place is full of materials of several sorts,

"and replenished with sacred animals: I desire therefore that

"you will grant me leave to purge this holy place, which be-

"longs to no master, and is fallen down, and to build there a

"temple to Almighty God, after the pattern of that in Jerusa-

"lem, and of the same dimensions; that may be for the benefit

"of thyself, and thy wife and children, that those Jews which

"dwell in Egypt may have a place whither they may come and

"meet together in mutual harmony one with another, and be

"subservient to thy advantages, for the prophet Isaiah fore-

"told, that * there should be an altar in Egypt to the Lord God.

* It seems to me, contrary to the opinion of Josephus, and of the moderns, both  
Jews and Christians, that this prophecy of Isaiah xix. 19, &c. In that day
there shall

be an altar to the Lord in the midst of the land of Egypt, Sec. directly
foretold the

building of this temple of Onias in Egypt, and was a sufficient warrant to the
Jews

for building it, and for worshipping the true God, the God of Israel, therein.
See

Authent. Rec. vol. II. p. 755. That God seems to have soon better accepted of
the

sacri6ces and prayers here offered him than those at Jerusalem, see the note
on ch.

x. sect. 7. And truly the marks of Jewish corruption or interpolation in this
text, in

order to discourage their people from approving of the worship of God here,
are

very strong, and highly deserve our consideration and correction. The
foregoing

verse in Isaiah runs thus in our common copies, Tn that day shall Jive cities
in the

land of Efy]it, [the Hebrew language; shall be full of Jews, whose sacred
books

were in Hebrew,] and swear to the Lord of hosts. One [for the first] shall be
called

the city of destruction, Isa. xs. 18. A strange name, city of destruction 1
upon so

joyful an occasion, and a name never heard of in the land of Egypt, or perhaps
in

any other nation. The old reading was evidently the city of the sun, or
Heliopolis ,

and Onkelos, in effect, and Symmachus with the Arabic version, entirely
confess

that to be the true reading. The Septuagint also, though they have the text
dis­

guised in the common copies, and call it Asedek, the city of righteousness;
yet in

