Gimp. VII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 173

"desirable, by its affording us the liberty of worshipping God.

"Since therefore you are in such circumstances at present, that

"you must either recover that liberty, and so regain a happy

"and blessed way of living, which is that according to our laws

"and customs of our country, or to submit to the most op-

"probrious sufferings; nor will any seed of your nation remain

"if you be beat in this battle. Fight, therefore, manfully; and

"suppose that you must die, though you do not fight. But be-

"lieve, that besides such glorious rewards as those of the liber-

"ty of your country, of your laws, of your religion, you shall

"then obtain everlasting glory. Prepare yourselves therefore,

"and put yourselves into such an agreeable posture, that you

"may be ready to fight with the enemy as soon as it is day to-

"morrow morning."

4. And this was the speech which Judas made to encourage

them. But when the enemy sent Gorgias, with five thousand

foot, and one thousand horse, that he might fall upon Judas by

night, and had for that purpose certain of the runagate Jews as

guides, the son of Mattathias perceived it, and resolved to fall

upon those enemies that were in their camp, now their forces

were divided. When they had therefore supped in good time,

and had left many fires in their camp he marched all night to

those enemies that were at Emmaus; so that when Gorgias

found no enemy in their camp, but suspected that they were re­

tired and had hidden themselves among the mountains, he resol­

ved to go and seek them wheresoever they were. But about

break of day, Judas appeared to those enemies that were at Em­

maus, with only three thousand men, and those ill armed, by rea­

son of their poverty, and when he saw the enemy very well and

skilfully fortified in their camp, he encouraged the Jews, and

told them "that they ought to fight, though it were with their

"naked bodies, for that God had sometimes of old given such

"men strength, and that against such as were more in number,

"and were armed also, out of regard to their great courage."

So he commanded the trumpeters to sound for the battle: and

by thus falling upon the enemies when they did not expect it,

and thereby astonishing and disturbing their minds, he slew

many of those that resisted him, and went on pursuing the rest as

f !'r as Gadara, and the plains of Idumea, andAshdod, and Jamnia:

and of these there fell about three thousand. Yet did Judas ex­

hort his soldiers not to be too desirous of the spoils, for that still

they must have a contest and a battle with Gorgias, and the for­

ces that were with him; but that when they had once overcome

them, then they might securely plunder the camp, because they

were the only enemies remaining, and they expected no others,

just as he was speaking to his soldiers, Gorgias' men look-

