Chap. I. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 5

faces, and gave thanks to God, and worshipped him; and the Le-

vites continued singing hymns to God with their instruments of

music.

3. As soon as it was day, and the king was come mto that

wilderness which is under the city of Tekoa, he said to the mul­

titude, That " they ought to give credit to what the prophet had

"said, and not to set themselves in array for fighting, but to set

"the priests with their trumpets, and the Levites, with the sing-

"ers of hymns, to give thanks to God, as having already deliver-

"ed our country from our enemies." This opinion of the king

pleased [the people], and they did what he advised them to do.

So God caused a terror and a commotion to arise among the Am­

monites, who thought one another to be enemies, and slew one

another, insomuch that not one man out of so great an army

escaped: and when Jehoshaphat looked upon that valley wherein

their enemies had been encamped, and saw it full of dead men; he

rejoiced at so surprising an event, as was this assistance of God,

while he himself by his own power, and without their labour,

had given them the victory. He also gave his army leave

to take the prey of the enemies' camp, and to spoil their dead

bodies; and indeed so they did for three days together, till they

were weary, so great was the number of the slain; and on the

fourth day, all the people were gathered together, unto a certain

nollow place or valley, and blessed God for his power and assist­

ance, from which the place had this name given it, the valley

of[_Berachah, 01] blessing.

4. And when the king had brought his army back to Jerusa­

lem, he betook himself to celebrate festivals, and offer sacrifices,

and this for many days. And, indeed, after this destruction of

their enemies, and when it came to the ears of the foreign na­

tions they were all greatly affrighted, as supposing that God

would openly fight for him hereafter. So Jehoshaphat from that

time lived in great glory and splendour, on account of his right­

eousness and his piety towards God. He was also in friendship

with Ahab's son, who was king of Israel: and he joined with

him in the building of ships that were to sail to * Pontus, and the

* What are here Pontus and Thrace, as the places whither Jehoshaphat's fleet  
sailed, are in our other copies Opkir and Tttrshish, and the place whence it
sailed

is in them Eziongeber, which lay on the Red Sea, whence it was impossible for
any

ships to sail to Pontus or Thrace; so that Josephus' copy differed from cur
other

copies, as is farther plain from his own words, which render what we read,
that the

ships were broken at Eriongeber, from their unwieldy greutnes*. But so far we

may conclude, that Josephus thought one Ophir to be somewhere in the Medi­

terranean, and not in the South Sea, though perhaps there might be another
Ophir

in that South Sea also, and that fleets might then sail both from Phoenicia,
and

from tii. Red Se» to fetch the gold of Of/iir.

