218 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. BlX)k XIII.

hindered him from coming to Jerusalem; whereupon Trypho

removed thence, and came into Celesyria, and falling vehement­

ly upon the land of Gilead, he slew Jonathan there, and when

he had given order for his burial, he returned himself to Anti-

och. However, Simon sent some to the city Basea to bring

away his brother's bones, and buried them in their own city

Modin; and all the people made great lamentation over him.

Simon also erected a very large monument for his father and his

brethren, of white and polished stone, and raised it a great height,

and so as to be seen a long way off, and made cloisters about it,

and set up pillars, which were of one stone a-piece; a work it was

wonderful to see. Moreover, he built seven pyramids also for

his parents and his brethren, one for each of them, which were

made very surprising, both for their largeness and beauty, and

which have been preserved to this day; and we know that it was

Simon who bestowed so much zeal about the burial of Jonathan,

and the building of these monuments for his relations. Now

Jonathan died when he had been high priest * four years, and

had been also the governor of his nation. And these were the

circumstances that concerned his death.

7. But Simon, who was made high priest by the multitude,

on the very first year of his high priesthood set his people free

from their slavery under the Macedonians, and permitted them

to pay tribute to them no longer; which liberty and freedom

from tribute they obtained after a f hundred and seventy years

of the kingdom of the Assyrians, which was after Seleucus, who

* There is some error in the copies here, when no more than four years are as­  
cribed to the high priesthood of Jonathan. We know by Josephus' last Jewish

chronology, Antiq. B. XX. chap. x. vol. III. that there was an interval of
seven

years between the death of Alcimus or Jacimus, the last high priest, and the
real

priesthood of Jonathan, to whom yet those seven years seem here to be
ascribed, as

a p:irt of them were to Judas before, Antiq. B. XII. chap. 3t. sect. 6. vol.
II. Now

since, besides these seven years' interregnum in the pontificate, we are told,
Antiq.

B. XX. chap. z. that Jonathan's real high priesthood lasted seven years more;
these

two seven years will make up fourteen years, which I suppose was Josephus' own

number in this place, instead of the four in our present copies.

'(' These 17O years of the Assyrians mean no more, as Josephus explains
himself

here, than from the sera of Seleucus, which, as it is known to have began on
the

312th year before the Christian a;ra, from its spring in the first book of
Maccabees,

and from its autumn in the second book of Maccabees, so did it not begin at
Baby­

lon till the next spring, on the 311th year. See Prid. at the year 312. And it
is

truly observed by Dr. Hudson on this place, that the Syrians and Assyrians are

sometimes confounded in ancient authors, according to the words of Justin the

epitomizer of Trogus Pompeius, who says, That "the Assyrians were afterwards

called Syrians," B. I. ch. xi. See Of the War, B. V. ch. ix. sect. 4. vol. IV.
where

the Philistines themselves, at the very south limit of Syria, in its utmost
extent, an

called Assyrians by Josephus, as Spanheim observes.

