Chap. IV. ANTtgumfcS OF THk JEWS.

"God, the Jews and their rulers, to build the tempfej He also

"ordained that they should assist them in the work: and that

"they should pay to the Jews, out of the tribute of the coun-

"try where they were governors, on account of the sacrifices,

"bulls and rams, and lambs and kids of the goats, ahd fine flout

"and oil, and wine, and all other things that the priests should

"suggest to them; and that they should pray for the preserva-

"tion of the king, and of the Persians, and that for such as

"transgressed any of these orders thus sent to th«m, he com-

"manded that they should be caught, and hung upon a cross^

"and their substance confiscated to the king's use. He also

"prayed to God against them*, that if any one attempted to

"hinder the building of the temple, God would strike him

"dead, and thereby restrain his wickedness."

7. When Darius had found this book among the records of

Cyrus, he wrote an answer to Sisinnes and his associates, whose

contents were these: " King Darius to Sisinnes the governor,

"and to Sathrabuzanes, sendeth greeting: Having found a copy

"of this epistle among the records of Cyrus, I have sent it you;

"and I will that all things be done as is therein written. Fare

"ye well." So when Sisinnes, and those that were with him,

understood the intention of the king, they resolveS to follow his

directions entirely for the time to come. So they forwarded

the sacred works, and assisted the elders of the Jews, and 'the

princes of the sanhedrim, ami the structure of the temple was

with great diligence brought to a conclusion, by the prophecies

of Haggai and Zechariah, according to God's commands, and

by the injunctions of Cyrus nml Darius the kings. Now the

temple was built in seven years' time: And in the ninth year of

the reign of Darius, on the twenty-third day of the twelfth month,

which is by us called Adar, but by the Macedonians Dystnts,

the priests and Levites, and the other multitude of the Israelites

offered sacrifices, as the renovation of their former prosperity

after their captivity, find because they had now the temple re­

built, a hundred bulls, two hundred rams, four hundred lambs,

and twelve kids of the goats, according to the number of their

tribes, (for so many are the tribes of the Israelites,) and this last

for the sins of every tribe. The priests also and the Levites set

the porters at every gate, according to the laws of Moses. The

Jews also built the cloisters of the inner temple, that were round

about the temple itself.

8. And as the feast of unleavened bread was at hand, in the

first month, which, according to the Macedonians, is called Xan-

thicus, but according to us Nisan, all the people ran together out

of the villages to the city, and celebrated the festival, having

purified themselves, with" their wires and children, according

