Clap. V. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 109

"ply them with the expenses which I commanded you to do for

"the offering their sacrifices. My will therefore is this, that

"upon tl*e reading of this epistle, you supply them with whatso-

"ever they want for their sacrifices, and that out of the royal

"treasury, of the tributes of Samaria, as the priest shall desire,

"that they may not leave off' offering their daily sacrifices, nor

"praying to God for me and the Persians." And these were

Ihe contents of that epistle.

- .

CHAP. V.

Haw Xerxes, the son of Darius, leas well disposed to tJie Jews:

As also concerning Esdras and Nehemiah.

} 1. LJPON the death of Darius, Xerxes his son took the

kingdom, who, as he inherited his father's kingdom, so did he

inherit his piety towards God, and honour of him; for he did all

titings suitably to his- father relating to divine worship, and he

was exceeding friendly to the Jews. Now about this time, a

son of Jeshua, whose name was Joacim, was the high priest.

Moreover, there was now in Babylon a righteous man, and one

that enjoyed a great reputation among the multitude? He was the

principal priest of the people, and his name was Esdras. He

was very skilful in the laws of Moses, and was well acquainted

with king Xerxes. He had determined to go up to Jerusalem,

and to take with him .some of those Jews that were in Babylon,

and he desired that the king would give him an epistle to the

governors of Syria, by which they might know who he was. Ac­

cordingly, the king wrote the following epistle to those govern­

ors: " Xerxes, king of kings, to Ezra the priest, and reader of

"the divine law, greeting: I think it agreeable to that love which

"I bear to mankind, to permit those of the Jewish nation that

"are so disposed, as well as those of the priests and Levites

"that are in our kingdom, to go together to Jerusalem. Ac-

"cordingly, I have given command for that purpose; and let

"every one that hath a mind go, according as it hath seemed

"good to me, and to my seven counsellors, and this in order to

"their review of the affairs of Judea, to see whether they be

"agreeable to the law of God. Let them also take with them

'' those presents which I and my friends have vowed, with

"all that silver and gold that is found in the country of the

"Babylonians, as dedicated to God, and let all this be carried

"to Jerusalem, to God for sacrifices. Let it also be lawful for

"thee and thy brethren to make as many vessels of silver

"and gold as thou pleasest. Thou shalt also dedicate those

"holy vessels which have been piven thee, and as many more

