148 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XII.

selves, they betook themselves to the interpretation of the laws.

Now when the law was transcribed, and the labour of interpre­

tation was over, which came to its conclusion in seventy-two

days, Demetrius gathered all the Jews together to the place

where the laws were translated, and where the interpreters were,

and read them over. The multitude did also approve of those

elders that were the interpreters of the law. They withal

commended Demetrius for his proposal, as the inventor of

what was greatly for their happiness; and they desired that he

would give leave to their rulers also to read the law. More­

over, they all, both the priest and the ancientest of the elders,

and the principal men of their commonwealth, made it their

request, that since the interpretation was happily finished, it

might continue in the state it now was, and might not be altered.

And when they all commended that determination of theirs,

they enjoined, that if any one observed either any thing super­

fluous, or any thing omitted, that he would take a view of it

again, and have it laid before them, and corrected; which was

a wise account of theirs, that when the thing was judged to have

been well done, it might continue for ever.

13. So the king rejoiced, when he saw that his design of this

nature was brought to perfection to so great advantage: and he

was chiefly delighted with hearing the laws read to him, and

was astonished at the deep meaning and wisdom of the legislator.

And he began to discourse with Demetrius, "How it came

"to pass, that when this legislation was so wonderful, no one,

"either of the poets or of the historians, had made mention of

"it." Demetrius made answer, that "no one durst be so bold

"as to touch upon the description of these laws, because they

"were divine and venerable, and because some that had attempt-

"ed it were afflicted by God." He also told him, that " Theo-

"pompouse was desirous of writing somewhat about them, but

"was thereupon disturbed in his mind for above thirty days'

"time; and upon some intermission of his distemper, he appeas-

"ed God [by prayer] as suspecting that his madness proceed-

"ed from that cause." Nay, indeed, hefurthersawinadream, that

his distemper befell him while he indulged too great a curiosity

about divine matters, and was desirous of publishing them among

common men; but when he left off that attempt, he recovered

his understanding again. Moreover, he informed him of

Theodectes, the tragic poet, concerning whom it was reported,

compared with the like practice of Peter the apostle, in the recognitions of

Clement, B. IV. chap. iii. and B. V. chap, xxxvi. and with the places of the

Proseuthaj, or of prayer, which were sometimes built near the sea or rivers

also. Of which matter, see Antiq. B. XIV. ch. x. sect. 23. Vol. II. and Acts
xvi.

13, 16.

