Chap. III. ANTIQUITIES or THE JEWS. 153

"tus. We also discharge them for the future from a third

"part of their taxes, that the losses they have sustained may

"be repaired. And all those citizens that have been carried

"away, and are become slaves, we grant them and their chil-

"dren their freedom; and give order that their substance be

"restored to them."

4. And these were the contents of this epistle. He also pub­

lished a decree, through all his kingdom, in honour of the tem­

ple, which contained what follows: "It shall be lawful for

"no foreigner to come within the limits of the temple round

"about; which thing is forbidden also to the Jews, unless to

"those who, according to their own custom, have purified

"themselves. Nor let any flesh of horses, or of mules, or of

"asses, be brought into the city, whether they be wild, or

"tame; nor that of leopards, or foxes, or hares, and in

"general, that of any animal which is forbidden for the Jews to

"eat. Nor let their skins be brought into it; nor let any such

"animal be bred up in the city. Let them only be permitted

"to use the sacrifices derived from their forefathers, with

"which they have been obliged to make acceptable atonements

"to God. And he that transgresseth any of these orders, let him

"pay to the priests three thousand drachmae of silver." More­

over, this Antiochus bare testimony to our piety and fidelity, in

an epistle of his, written when he was informed of a sedition in

Phrygia and Lydia, at which time he was in the superior pro­

vinces, wherein he commanded Zeuxis, the general of his for­

ces, and his most intimate friend, to send some of our nation

out of Babylon into Phrygia. The epistle was this:

"King ANTIOCHUS to ZEUXIS his father, sendeth greeting."

"If you are in health it is well. I also am in health. Hav-

"ing been informed that a sedition is arisen in Lydia and

"Phrygia, I thought that matter required great care: And

"upon advising with my friends what was fit to be done, it

"hath been thought proper to remove two thousand families of

"Jews, with their effects, out of Mesopotamia and Babylon,

"unto the castles and places that lie most convenient; for I am

"persuaded that they will be well disposed guardians of our

"possessions, because of their piety towards God, and because

"I know that my predecessors have borne witness to them, that

"they are faithful, and, with alacrity, do what they are desired

"to do-. I will, therefore, though it be a laborious work, that

"thou remove these Jews; under a promise, that they shall be

"permitted to use their own laws. And when thou shalt have

"brought them to the places forementioned, thou shalt give

"every one of their families a place for building their houses,

