62 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book X.

,.- CHAP. VII.

That the king of Babylon repented of making Jehoiachin king,

and took him twaaij to Babylon, and delivered the kingdom to

Zedekiah. This king tsioidd not believe "what 'was predicted by

Jeremiah and Ezekiel, but joined himself to the Egyptians ,' who,

when they came into Judea, were vanquished by the king of

Babylon: as also what befell Jeremiah.

.$ 1. BUT a terror seized on the king of Babylon, who had

given the kingdom to Jehoinchin, and that immediately: he was

afraid that he should bear him a grudge, because of his killing

his father, and thereupon should make the country revolt from

him; wherefore he sent an army, and besieged Jehoiachin in

Jerusalem; but because he was of a gentle and just disposition,

he did not desire to see the city endangered on his account,

but he took his mother, and kindred, and delivered them to

the commanders sent by the king of Babylon, and accepted of

their oaths, that neither should they suffer any harm, nor the

city; which agreement they did not observe for a single year,

for the king of Babylon did not keep it, but gave orders to his

generals to take all that were in the city captives, both. the

youth and the handicraftsmen; and bring them bound to him;

their number was ten thousand eight hundred and thirty two;

as also Jehoiachin, and his mother and friends: And when these

were brought to him, he kept them in custody, and appointed

Jehoiachin's uncle Zedekiah to be king; and made him take an

oath, that he would certainly keep the kingdom for him, and

make no innovation, nor have any league of friendship with the-

Egyptians.

2. Now Zedekiah was twenty and one years old when he took

the government: and had the same mother- with his brother Je-

hoiakim, but was a despiser of justice and of his duty, for truly

those of the same age. with him were wicked about him, and the

whole multitude did what unjust and insolent things they pleased;

for which reason the prophet Jeremiah came often to him, and

protested to him, and insisted, That " he must leave off his im-

* pieties and transgressions, and take care of what was right,  
*' and neither give ear to the rulers, (among whom were wicked  
"men), nor give credit to their false prophets, who deluded

*' them, as if the king of Babylon would makenomorewar against  
"them, and as if the Egyptians would make war against him,

*' and conquer him, since what they- said was not true, and the-  
"events would not prove such [as they expected]." Now as to

Zedekiah himself, while he heard the prophet speak he believed

him, and agreed to every thing as true, and supposed it was for his

