334, ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. . Book XV.

I

own, and with those that the country had gotten together for

him: So he fell upon the Jews unexpectedly, when they were

fatigued, and thought they had already vanquished the enemy,

and made a great slaughter of them: for as the Jews had spent

their courage upon their known enemies, and were about to en­

joy themselves in quietness after the victory, they were easily

beaten by these that attacked them afresh, and in particular re­

ceived a great loss in places where the horses could not be of ser­

vice, and which were very stony, and where those that attacked

them were better acquainted with the places than themselves.

And when the Jews had suffered this loss, the Arabians raised

their spirits after their defeat, and returning back again, slew

those that were already put to flight; and indeed all sorts of

slaughter were now frequent, and of those that escaped, a few

only returned into the camp. So king Herod, when he de­

spaired of the battle, rode up to them to bring them assistance,

yet did he not come time enough to do them any service, though

he laboured hard to do it, but the Jewish camp was taken, so

that the Arabians had unexpectedly a most glorious success,

having gained that victory which of themselves they were no

way likely to have gained, and slaying a great part of the enemy's

army: Whence afterward Herod could only act like a private

robber and make excursions upon many parts of Arabia, and

distress them by sudden incursions, while he encamped among

the mountains, and avoided by any means to come to a pitched

battle, yet did he greatly harass the enemy by his assiduity, and

the hard labour he took in this matter. He also took great care

of his own forces, and used all the means he could to restore his

affairs to their old state.

2. At this time it was that the fight happened at Actium, be­

tween Octavius Caesar, and Antony, in * the seventh year of the

reign of Herod: and then it was also there was an earthquake in

Judea, such a one as had not happened at any other time, and

which earthquake brought a great destruction upon the cattle in

that country. About ten thousand men also perished by the fall

of houses; but the army which lodged in the field, received no

damage by this sad accident. When the Arabians were inform­

ed of this, and when those that hated the Jews, and pleased them­

selves with aggravating the reports told them of it, they raised

their spirits, as if their enemy's country was quite overthrown,

* The reader is here to take notice, that this seventh year of the reign of Herod,  
and all the other years of his reign, in Josephus, are dated from the death of
Anti-

gonus, or at the soonest from the conquest of Antigonus, and the taking of
Jerusa­

lem a few months before, and never from his first obtaining the kingdom at
Rome

above three years before, as some have very weakly and injudiciously done

