410 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVI.

6. But when Archelaus, king of Cappadocia, heard of the

state that Herod was in, and being in great distress about his

daughter, and the young man [her husband,] and grieving with

Herod, as with a man that was his friend, on account of so great

a disturbance as he was under, he came [to Jerusalem] on pur­

pose to compose their differences; and when he found Herod in

such a temper, he thought it wholly unseasonable to reprove him,

or to pretend that he had done any thing rashly, for that he

should thereby naturally bring him to dispute the point with

him, and by still more and more apologizing for himself to be the

more irritated. He went therefore another way to work, in or­

der to correct the former misfortunes, and appeared angry at the

young man, and said, that Herod had been so very mild a man,

that he had not acted a rash part at all. Healsosaid, hewoulddis-

solve his daughter's marriage with Alexander, nor could in jus­

tice spare his own daughter, if she were conscious of any thing,

and did not inform Herod of it. When Archelaus appeared to

be of this temper, and otherwise than Herod expected or imag­

ined, and for the main, took Herod's part, and was angry on his

account, the king abated of his harshness, and took occasion from

his appearing to have acted justly hitherto, to come by degrees

to put on the affection of a father, and was on both sides to be

pitied; for when some persons refuted the calumnies that were

laid on the young man, he was thrown into a passion, but when

Archelaus joined in the accusation, he was dissolved into tearsand

sorrow after an affectionatemanner. Accordingly, hedesiredthat

he would not dissolve his son's marriage, and became not so an­

gry as before for his offences. So when Archelaus had brought

him to a more moderate temper, he transferred the calumnies

upon his friends; and said, it must be owing to them that so

young a man, and one unacquainted with malice, was corrupted,

and he supposed that there was more reason to suspect the bro­

ther than the son. Upon which Herod was very much displeased

at Pheroras, who indeed now had no one that could make

a reconciliation between him and his brother; so when he saw-

that Archelaus had the greatest power with Herod, he betook

himself to him in the habit of a mourner, and like one that had

all the signs upon him of an undone man. Upon this Archelaus

did not overlook the intercession he made to him, nor yet did he

undertake to change the king's disposition towards him imme­

diately, and he said, that it was better for him to come himself

to the king, and confess himself the occasion of all, that this

would make the king's anger not to be extravagant towards him,

and that then he would be present to assist him. When he had

persuaded him to this, he gained his point with both of them;

and the calumnies raised »gainst the young man were, beyond

