Chap. XII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

"their oaths, I will that you be at peace with those that are our

"confederates; as also, that what you have taken by the means of

"our adversaries shall not be reckoned your own, but be return-

"ed to those from whom you took them; for none of them

"took their provinces or their armies by the gift of the senate,

"but they seized them by force, and bestowed them by violence

"upon such as became useful to them in their unjust proceed-

"ings. Since, therefore, those men have received the punish-

'-' ment due to them, we desire that our confederates may retain

"whatsoever it was that they formerly possessed without dis-

"turbance, and that you restore all the places which belong to

"Hyrcanus the ethnarch of the Jews, which you have had,

"though it were but one day before Caius Cassius began an un-

"justifiable war against us, and entered into our province; nor

"do you use any force against him, in order to weaken him, that

"he may not be able to dispose of that which is his own, but

"if you have any contest with him about your respective rights,

"it shall be lawful for you to plead your cause when we come

"upon the places concerned, for we shall alike preserve the

"rights, and hear all the causes of our confederates."

5. " Marcus Antonius, imperator, to the magistrates, senate,

"and people of Tyre, sendeth greeting: I have sent you my

"decree, of which I will that ye take care that it be engraven

"on the public tables, in Roman and Greek letters, and that it

"stand engraven in the most illustrious places, that it may be

"read by all." Marcus Antonius, imperator, one of the tri­

umvirate over the public affairs, made this declaration: "Since

"Caius Cassius, in this revolt he hath made, hath pillaged that

"province which belonged not to him, and was held by gar-

"risons there encamped, while they were our confederates, and

"hath spoiled that nation of the Jews that was in friendship

"with the Roman people, as in war; and since we have over-

"come his madness by arms, we now correct by our decrees

"and judicial determinations what he hath laid waste, that those

"things may be restored to our confederates. And as for what

"hath been sold of the Jewish possessions, whether they be

"bodies or possessions, let them be released, the bodies into

"that state of freedom they were originally in, and the posses-

"sions to their former owners. I also will, that he who shall

"not comply with this decree of mine, shall be punished for

"his disobedience: and if such a one be caught, I will take

"care that the offenders suffer condign punishment."

6. The same thing did Antony write to the Sidonians, and the

Antiochians, and the Arabians. We have produced these de­

crees, therefore, as marks for futurity of the truth of what we

have said, that the Romans had a great concern about our nation.

