Chap. IX. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 69

acribe, and sixty other rulers, all which, together with the ves­

sels which they had pillaged, he carried to. the king of Babylon

to Riblah, a city of Syria. So the king commanded the heads

of the high priest and of the rulers to be cut ofl' there; but he

himself led all the captives, and Zedekiah to Babylon. He al­

so led Josedek the high priest away bound. He was the son of

Seraiah the high priest, whom the king of Babylon had slain in

Riblah, a city of Syria, as we have just now related.

. 6. And now, because we have enumerated the succession of

the kings, and who they were, and how long they reigned, I think

it necessary to set down the names of the high priests, and who

they were that succeeded one another in the high priesthood un­

der the kings. The first high priest then at the temple which

Solomon built, was Zadoc; after him his son Achimas -received

that dignity; after Achimas was Azarias; his son was Joram,

and Joram's son was Isus, after him was Axioramus; his son

was Phideas, and Phideas' son was Sudeas, and Sudeas' son

was Juelus, and Juelus' son was Jotham, and Jotham's son was

Urias, and Urias' son was Nerias, and Nerias' son was Odeas,

and his son was Sallumus, and Sallumus' son was Elcias, and

his son * [was Azarias, and his son] was Sareas, and his son

was Josadoc, who was carried captive to Babylon. All these

received the high priesthood by succession, the sons from their

father.

7. When the king was come to Babylon, he kept Zedekiah

in prison until he died, and buried him magnificently, and de­

dicated the vessels he had pillaged out of the temple of Jerusa­

lem to his own gods, and planted the people in the country of

Babylon, but freed the high priest from his bonds.

CHAP. IX.

How Nebuzaradan set Gedaliah over the Jews that were left in

Judea, which Gedaliah was a little afterward slain by Ishmael:

and how Johanan, after Ishmael was thriven away, .went down

into Egypt with the people, which people Nebuchadnezzar, when

Tie made- an expedition against t'he Egyptians, took captive, and

brought them away to Babylon.

Ww -yj - <- ''

iflif ikJlLY -'"

.J^K JN ow the general of the army, Nebuzaradan, when

he had carried the people of the Jews into captivity, left the

* I hfcve here inserted in bracket? this high priest Azarias, though he be omitted  
in all Josephus' copies, out of the Jewish chronicle, Sedar Olam, of how
little au­

thority soever I generally esteem such late rabbinical historians, because we
know

from Josephus himself, that the number of the high priests belonging to this
inter­

val was eighteen, Antiq. B. XX. chap. x. whereat his copies have here but
ssventecn.

