Chap. XV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 2*5

nothing of that in hopes whereof he had received him into the

city, but had a mind to have it believed that it was rather deli­

vered up out of fear than by the kindness of Melesius, and be­

cause he had not rewarded him as he ought to have done, he be­

came suspected by him, and so he was obliged to leave Damascus

again; for Melesius caught him marching out into the Hippo­

drome and shut him up in it, and kept Damascus for Antiochus

[Eucerus], who hearing how Philip's affairs stood, came back out

of Arabia. He also came immediately, and made an expedition

against Judea,with eight thousand armed footmen, and eight hun­

dred horsemen. So Alexander, out of fear of his coming, dug

a deep ditch, beginning at Chabarzaba, which is now called An-

tipatris, to the sea of Joppa, on which part only his army could

be brought against him. He also raised a wall, and erected wood­

en towers, and intermediate redoubts, for one hundred and fifty

furlongs in length, and there expected the coming of Antiochus,

but he soon burnt them all, and made his army pass by that way

into Arabia. The Arabian king [Aretas] at first retreated, but

afterward appeared on the sudden with ten thousand horsemen.

Antiochus gave them the meeting, and fought desperately; and

indeed when he had gotten the victory, and was bringing some

auxiliaries to that part of his army that was in distress, he was

slain. When Antiochus was fallen, his army fled to the village

Cana, where the greatest part of them perished by famine.

2. After him * Aretas reigned over Celesyria, being called to

the government by those that held Damascus, by reason of the

hatred they bare to Ptolemy Menneus. He also made thence an

expedition against Judea, and beat Alexander in battle, near a

place called Adida, yet did he upon certain conditions agreed on

between them, retire out of Judea.

'3. But Alexander marched again to the city Dios, and took

it; and then made an expedition against Essa, where was the best

part of Zeno's treasures, and there he encompassed the place with

three walls; and when he had taken the city by fighting, he

marched to Golan and Seleucia; and when he had taken these

cities, he, besides them, took that valley which is calle'd the val­

ley of Antiochus, as also the fortress of Gamala. He also ac­

cused Demetrius, who was governor of those places, of many

crimes, and turned him out: and after he had spent three years

in this war, he returned to his own country, when the Jews joy­

fully received him upon this his good success.

4. Now at this time the Jews were in possession of the follow­

* This Aretas was the first king of the Arabians who took Damascus, and reigned  
there: Which name became afterwards common to such Arabian kings, both at Pe-

t ra and at Damascus, as we learn from Josephus in many places, and from St.
Paul,

2 Cor. xi. 32. See the note on Antiq. B XVI. ch. ix. § 4.

