Chap. II. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 137

Accordingly Aristeus embraced the same opinion with those that

have been before mentioned; and went to the king, and made

the following speech to him: "It is not fit for us, O king, to

"overlook things hastily, or to deceive ourselves, but to lay

"the truth open; For since we have determined not only to get

"the laws of the Jews transcribed, but interpreted also, for thy

"satisfaction, by what means can we do this, while so many of

"the Jews are now slaves in thy kingdom? Do thou then what

"will be agreeable to thy magnanimity, and to thy good na-

"ture; free them from the miserable condition they are in, be-

"cause that God, who supporteth thy kingdom, was the au-

"thor of their laws, as I have learned by particular inquiry;

"for both these people, and we also, worship the same God, the

"framer of all things. We call him, and that truly, by the name

"of ZTJWZ, [or life, or Jupiter,] because he breathes life into all

"men. Wherefore do thou restore these men to their own coun-

"try and this do to the honour of God, because these men pay a

"peculiarly excellent worship to him. And know this farther,

"that though I be not of kin to them by birth, nor one of the

"same country with them, yet do I desire these favours to be

"done them, since all men are the workmanship of God; and

"I am sensible that he is well pleased with those that do good.

"I do therefore put up this petition to thee, to do good to

"them."

3. When Aristeus was saying thus, the king looked upon

him with a cheerful and joyful countenance, and said, "How

"many ten thousands dost thou suppose there are of such as

"want to be made free?" To which Andreas replied, as he

stood by, and said, " A few more than ten times ten thousand."

The king made answer, "And is this a small gift that thou

"askest, Aristeus?" But Sosibius, and the rest that stood by,

said, That "he ought to offer such a thank-offering, as was

"worthy of his greatness of soul, to that God who had given

"him his kingdom. With this answer he was much pleased;

and gave order, that when they paid the soldiers their wages,

they should lay down [a * hundred and] twenty drachmae for

* Although this number 120 drachma (of Alexandria, or 60 Jewish shekels) be  
here three times repeated, and that in all Josephus' copies, Greek and Latin,
yet

since all the copies of Aristeus, whence Josephus took his relation, have this
sum

several times, and still as no more than 20 drachmae, or 10 Jewish shekels;
and

since the sum of the talents, to be set down presently, which is little above
460,

for somewhat more than 100,000 slaves, and is nearly the same in Josephus and

Aristeus, does better agree to 20 than to 120 drachmae: and smce the value of
a

slave of old was, at the utmost but 3O shekels, or 60 drachmae, see Exod. xxi.
32.

while in the present circumstances of these Jewish slaves, and those so very
numer­

ous, Philadelphus would rather redeem them at a cheaper, than at a dearer
rate,

there is great reason to prefer here Aristeus' copies before Josephus.

