Chap. IV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. S9S

"them." He also exhorted Herod to lay all such suspicions

aside, and to be reconciled to his sons; for that it was not just to

give any credit to such reports concerning his own children; and

that this repentance on both sides might still heal those breaches

that had happened between them, and might improve their

good-will to one another, whereby those on both sides, excusing

the rashness of their suspicions, might resolve to bear a greater

degree of affection towards each other than they had before. Af­

ter Caesar had given them this admonition, he beckoned to the

young men. When therefore they were disposed to fall down

to make intercession to their father, he took them up, and em­

braced them, as they were in tears, and took each of them dis­

tinctly in his arms, till not one of those that were present,

whether freeman or slave, but was deeply affected with what

they saw.

5. Then did they return thanks to Caesar, and went away

together; and with them went Antipater, with a hypocritical

pretence that he rejoiced at this reconciliation. And in the last

days they were with Caesar, Herod made him a present of three

hundred talents, as he was then exhibiting shows andjargesses to

the people of Rome: and Caesar made him a present of half the

revenue of the copper mines in Cyprus, and committed the care

of the other half to him, and honoured him with other gifts and

incomes: And as to his own kingdom, he left it in his own

power to appoint which of his sons he pleased for his successor,

or to distribute it in parts to every one, that the dignity might

thereby come to them all. And when Herod was disposed to

make such a settlement immediately, Caesar said, "He would

"not give him leave to deprive himself, while he was alive, of

"the power over his kingdom, or over his sons."

6. After this Herod returned to Judea again, but during his

absence no small part of his dominions about Trachon had re­

volted, whom yet the commanders he left there had vanquished,

and compelled to a submission again. Now, as Herod was sail­

ing with his sons, and was come over against Cilicia, to [the

island] Eleusa, which hath now changed its name for Sebaste,

he met with Archelaus, king of Cappadocia, who received him

kindly, as rejoicing that he was reconciled to his sons, and that

the accasation against Alexander, who had married his daugh­

ter, was at an end. They also made one another such presents

as it became kings to make. From thence Herod came to Judea,

and to the temple, where he made a speech to the people, con­

cerning what had been done in this his journey: " He also dis-

"coursed to them about Caesar's kindness to him, and about as

"many of the particulars he had done, as he thought it for his

"advantage other people should be acquainted with. At last he

