Chap, II. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 38S

"do what we ourselves force nobody to do; for these privileges

"of ours are not only according to justice, but have formerly

"been granted us by you. And we are able to read to you

"many decrees of the senate, and the tables that contain them,

"which are still extant in the capitol, concerning these things,

"which it is evident were granted after you had experience of

"our fidelity towards you, and which ought to be valued, though

"no such fidelity had been; for you have hitherto preserved

"what people were in possession of, not to us only, but almost

"to all men, and have added greater advantages than they could

"have hoped for, and thereby your government is become a

"great advantage to them. And if any one were able to enu-

"merate the benefits you have conferred on every nation,

"which they possess by your means, he could never put an end

"to his discourse; but that we may demonstrate that we are

"not unworthy of all those advantages we have obtained, it

"will be sufficient for us to say nothing of other things, but to

"speak freely of this king who now governs us, and is now

"one of thy assessors: and indeed, in what instance of good-will,

"as to your house, hath he been deficient? What mark of

"fidelity to it hath he omitted? What token of honour hath he

"not devised? What occasion for his assistance of you hath he

"not regarded at the very first? What hindereth, therefore,

"but that your kindnesses may be as numerous as his so great

"benefits to you have been. It may also perhaps be fit here not

"to pass over in silence the valour of his father Antipater, who,

"when Caesar made an expedition into Egypt, assisted him with

"two thousand armed men, and proved inferior to none, neither

"in the battles on land, nor in the management of the navy;

"and what need I say any thing of how great weight those sol-

"diers were at that juncture? or how many, and how great

"presents they were vouchsafed by Caesar? And truly I ought

"before now to have mentioned the epistles which Caesar wrote

"to the senate; and how Antipater had honours, and the free-

"dom of the city of Rome, bestowed upon him, for these are

"demonstrations both that we have received these favours by

"our own deserts, and do on that account petition thee for thy

"confirmation of them, from whom we had reason to hope for

"them, though they had not been given us before, both out of

"regard to our king's disposition towards you, and your dispo-

"sition towards him. And farther, we have been informed by

"those Jews that were there, with what kindness thou came

"into our country, and how thou offered the most perfect sa-

"crifices to God and honoured him with remarkable vows,

"and how thou gave the people a feast, and accepted of their

"own hospitable presents to thee. We ought to esteem all these

