Chap. V. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 19

to David. However, Jehoram did not leave off the introduc­

tion of new sorts of customs, to the propagation of impiety,

and to the ruin-of the customs of his own country. And when

the Edomites about that time had revolted from him, and slain

their former king, who was in subjection to his father, and had

set up one of their own choosing, Jehoram fell upon the land

of Edom, with the horsemen that were about him, anil the cha­

riots, by night, and destroyed those that lay near to his own

kingdom, but did not proceed farther. However, this expedi­

tion did him no service, for they all revolted from him, with

those that dwelt in the country of Libnah. He was indeed so

mad, as to compel the people to go up to the high places of the

mountains, and worship foreign gods.

2. And as he was doing this, and had entirely cast his own coun­

try laws out of his mind, there was brought him an * epistle

from Elijah the prophet, which declared that " God would ex-

"ecute great judgments upon him, because he had not imitated

"his own fathers, but had followed the wicked courses of the

"kings of Israel; and had compelled the tribe of Judah, and

"the citizens of Jerusalem, to leave the holy worship of their

"own God, and to worship idols, as Ahab had compelled the

"Israelites to do, and because he had slain his brethren, and the

"men that were good and righteous." And the prophet gave

him notice in this epistle, what punishment he should under­

go for these crimes, namely, "the destruction of his people,

<* with the corruption of the king's own wives and children,

"and that he should himself die of a dis'temper in his bowels,

"with long torments, those his bowels falling out by the vio-

"lence of the inward rottenness of the parts, insomuch, that

"though he see his own misery, he shall not be able at all to

"help himself, but shall; 'die in that manner." Thus it was

which Elijah denounced to him in that epistle.

3. It was not long after this that an army of those Arabians

that lived near to Ethiopia, and of the Philistines, fell upon the

kingdom of Jehoram, and spoiled the country and the king's

house: Moreover, they slew his sons and his wives: one only

of his sons was left him, who escaped the enemy; his name

was Ahaziah .- After which calamity, he himself fell into that

disease which was foretold by the prophet, and lasted a great

while (for God inflicted this punishment upon him in his belly,

* This epistle, in some copies of Josepbus, is said to come to Joram from  
Elijah, with this addition, far he was yet upon earth, which could not be true

of Elijah, who, as all agree, was gone from the earth about four years before,

and could only be true of Elisha: nor. perhaps, is there any more mystery
here,

than that the name of Elijah has very anciently crept into the text instead of

Elisha, by the copiers, there being nothing in any copy of that epistle
peculiar to

Elijah.

VOL. II. C 15

