Chap. IV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 159

as much land as his father had appointed him to sow, and re­

turned to him. And when he was come back, his father was

mightily pleased with his sagacity, and commended the sharp­

ness of his understanding, and his boldness in what he did. And

he still loved him the more, as if he were his only genuine son,

while his brethren were much troubled at it.

7. But when one told him that Ptolemy had a son just born,

and that all the principal men of Syria, and the other countries

subject to him, were to keep a festival, on account of the child's

birthday, and went away in haste with great retinues to Alex­

andria, he was himself indeed hindered from going by old age,

but he made trial of his sons, whether any of them would be

willing to go to the king. And when the elder sons excused

themselves from going, and said, they were not courtiers good

enough for such conversation, and advised him to send their bro­

ther Hyrcanus, he gladly hearkened to that advice; and called

Hyrcanus, and asked him, whether he would go to the king; and

whether it was agreeable to him to go or not? And upon his

promise that he would go, and his saying that he should not want

much money for his journey, because he would live moderately,

and that ten thousand drachmae would be sufficient, he was plea­

sed with his son's prudence. After a little while, the son advised

his father not to send his presents to the king from thence,

but to give him a letter to his steward at Alexandria, that he

might furnish him with money, for purchasing what should be

most excellent and most precious. So he thinking that the ex­

pense of ten talents would be enough for presents to be made the

king; and commending his son as giving him good advice, wrote

to Arion his steward, that managed all his money matters at

Alexandria; which money was not less than three thousand talents

on his account, for Joseph sent the money he received in Syria

to Alexandria. And when the day appointed for the payment

of the taxes to the king came, he wrote to Arion to pay them.

So when the son had asked his father for a letter to this steward,

and had received it, he made haste to Alexandria. And when

he was gone, his brethren wrote to all the king's friends, that

they should destroy him.

8. But when he was come to Alexandria, he delivered his let­

ter to Arion, who asked him how many talents he would have?

(hoping he would ask for no more than ten, or a little more,) he

said he wanted a thousand talents. At which the steward was

angry and rebuked him, as one that intended to live extravagant­

ly; and he let him know how his father had gathered together his

estate by pains-taking, and resisting his inclinations, and wished

him to imitate the example of his father: he assured him withal,

that he would give him but ten talents, and that for a present

