Chap. XIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 299

6. But as soon as he was gone away, some men came and

bound Hyrcanus and Phasaelus, while Phasaelus greatly re­

proached the Parthians for their perjury. However, that but­

ler who was sent against Herod had it in command to get him

without the walls of the city, and seize upon him; but messen­

gers had been sent by Phasaelus to inform Herod of the per,

fuliousness of the Parthians: Arid when he knew that the enemy

had seized upon them, he went to Pocorus, and to the most po­

tent of the Parthians, as to the lords of the rest, who, although

they knew the whole matter, dissembled with him in a deceit­

ful way; and said, "That he ought to go out with them before

"the walls, and meet those who were bringing him his letters,

"for that they were not taken by his adversaries, but were

"coming to give him an account of the good success Phasaelus

"had had." Herod did not give credit to what they said; for he

had heard that his brother was seized upon by others also: and the

daughter of Hyrcanus, whose daughter he had espoused, was his

monitor also [not to credit them,] which made him still more

suspicious of the Parthians, for although other people did not

give heed to her, yet did he believe her as a woman of very

great wisdom.

7. Now while the Parthians were in consultation what was

fit to be done; for they did not think it proper to make an open

attempt upon a person of his character; and while they put off

the determination to the next day, Herod was under great dis­

turbance of mind; and rather inclining to believe the reports he

heard about his brother and the Parthians, than to give heed to

what was said on the other side, he determined, that when the

evening came on, he would make use of it for his flight, and not

make any longer delay, as if the dangers from the enemy were

not yet certain. He therefore removed with the armed men

whom he had with him; and set his wives upon the beasts, as

also his mother, and sister, and her whom he was about to marry,

[Mariamne] the daughter of Alexander, the son of Aristo-

bulus, with her mother the daughter of Hyrcanus, and his

youngest brother, and all their servants, and the rest of the mul­

titude that was with him, and without the enemies' privity pur­

sued his way to Idumea: Nor could any enemy of his, who then

saw him in this case, be so hard hearted, but would have com­

miserated his fortune, while the women drew along their infant

children, and left their own country, and their friends in prison,

with tears in their eyes, and sad lamentations, and in expecta­

tion of nothing but what was of a melancholy nature.

8. But for Herod himself, he raised his mind above the mi­

serable state he was in, and was of good courage in the midst of

his misfortunes; and, as he passed along, he bid them every one

VOL. II. P V 25

