222 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIII.

was in from them, and made haste into the city [Jerusalem,] as

relying on the good-will of the multitude, because of the bene­

fits they had received from his father, and because of the ha­

tred the same multitude bare to Ptolemy; so that when Ptolemy

was endeavouring to enter the city by another gate, they drove

him away, as having already admitted of Hyrcanus.

CHAP. VIII.

Hyrcanus receives the high priesthood, and ejects Ptolemy out of

the country. Antiochus makes war against Hyrcanus, and af­

terwards makes a league with him.

§ 1. So Ptolemy retired to one of the fortresses that was

above Jericho, which was called Dagon: but Hyrcanus having

taken the priesthood that had been his father's before, and in

the first place propitiated God by sacrifices, he then made

an expedition against Ptolenyy; and when he made his. at­

tacks upon the place, in other points he was too hard for. him,

but was rendered weaker than he, by the commiseration he had

for his mother and brethren, and by that only, for Ptolemy

brought them upon the wall, and tormented them in the sight

of all, and threatened that he would throw them down headlong,

unless Hyrcanus would leave off the siege. And as he thought,

that so far as he relaxed as to the siege and taking of the place,

so much favour did he show to those that were dearest to him by

preventing their misery, his zeal about it was cooled. How­

ever, his mother spread out her hands, and begged of him that

he would not grow remiss on her account, but indulge his in­

dignation so much the more, and that he would do his utmost to

take the place quickly, in order to get their enemy under his

power, and then to avenge upon him what he had done to these

that were dearest to himself; for that death would be to her

sweet, though with torment, if that enemy of theirs might but

be brought to punishment for his wicked dealings to them.

Now, when his mother said so, he resolved to take the fortress

immediately; but when he saw her beaten, and torn to pieces,

his courage failed him, and he could not but sympathize with

what his mother suffered, and was thereby overcome. And as

the siege was drawn out into length by this means, that year

on which the Jews use to rest came on, for the Jews observe this

rest every seventh year, as they do every seventh day; so that

»nd to be now utterly lost. See Sixtus Senensis* account of it, of its many

Hebraisms, and its great agreement with Josephus' abridgment, in the Authem.

Rec. part. I. 2O6, 207, 208.

