2SS ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIV.

Aristobulus, and that he hath but a small part of the country

under him, Aristobulus having taken away the rest from him by

force. He also accused him, that the incursions which had been

made into their neighbours' countries, and the piracies that had

been at sea, were owing to him; and that the nation would not

have revolted, unless Aristobulus had been a man given to vio­

lence and disorder: and there were no fewer than a thousand

Jews, of the best esteem among them, who confirmed this accu­

sation: which confirmation was procured by Antipater. But

Aristobulus alleged against him, that it was Hyrcanus' own

temper, which was inactive, and on that account contemptible,

which caused him to be deprived of the government; and that

for himself he was necessitated to take it upon him, for fear lest

it should be transferred to others. And that as to his title [of

king,] it was no other than what his father had taken [before

him.] He also called for witnesses of what he said, some per­

sons who were both young and insolent: whose purple garments,

fine heads of hair, and other ornaments, were detested [by the

court,] and which they appeared in, not as though they were

to plead their cause in a court of justice, but as if they were

marching in a pompous procession.

3. When Pompey had heard the causes of these two, and had

condemned Aristobulus for his violent procedure, he then

spake civilly to them, and sent them away; and told them, that

when he came again into their country he would settle all their

affairs, after he had first taken a view of the affairs of the Na-

bateans. In the mean time, he ordered them to be quiet; and

treated Aristobulus civilly, lest he should make the nation re­

volt, and hinder his return: which yet Aristobulus did; for

without expecting any further determination, which Pompey

had promised them, he went to the city Delius, and thence

marched into Judea.

4. At this behaviour Pompey was angry; and taking with

him that army which he was leading against the Nabateans, and

the auxiliaries that came from Damascus, and the other parts of

Syria, with the other Roman legions which he had with him,

he made an expedition against Aristobulus: but as he passed by

Pella, and Scythopolis, he came to Coreae, which is the first en­

trance into Judea when one passes over the midland countries,

where he came to a most beautiful fortress that was built on

the top of a mountain called Alexandrium, whither Aristobulus

had fled, and thence Pompey sent his commands to him, that he

should come to him. Accordingly, at the persuasions of many,

that he would not make war with the Romans, he came

clown: and when he had disputed with lu's brother about the

right to the government; he went up again to the citadel, as

