60 JtNTlQUrriES OF TKK JEWS. Book X.

changed his name to Jehoiakim, and laid a tribute upon the land

of a hundred talents of silver, and a talent of gold, and the sum

of money Jehoiakim paid by way of tribute: but Neco carried

away Jehoahaz into Egypt, where he died when he had reigned

three months and ten days. Now Jehoiakim's mother was cal­

led Zebudah, of the city Rumah. He was of a wicked dispo­

sition, and ready to do mischief: nor was he either religious

towards God, or good natured towards men.

CHAP. VI.

How Nebuchadnezzar, when he had conquered the king of Egypt,

'made an expedition against the Jews, and slew Jehoiakim, and

made Jehoiachin his son king.

§ I. Now in the fourth year of the reign of Jehoiakim, one

whose name was Nebuchadnezzar, took the government over

the Babylonians, who at the same time went up with a great

army to the city Carchemish, which was at Euphrates, upon a

.resolution he had taken to fight with Neco king of Egypt, un­

der whom all Syria then was. And when Neco understood

the intention of the king of Babylon, and that this expedition was

.made against him, he did not despise his attempt, but made haste

with a great band of men to Euphrates to defend himself from

Nebuchadnezzar; and when they had joined battle, he was beat­

en, and lost many ten thousands [of his soldiers] in the battle.

So the king of Babylon passed over Euphrates, and took all Sy­

ria, as far as Pelusium, excepting Judea. But when Nebuchad­

nezzar had already reigned four years, which was the eighth of

Jehoiakim's government over the Hebrews, the king of Babylon

made an expedition with mighty forces against the Jews, and re­

quired tribute of Jehoiakim, and threatened on his refusal to*

make war against him. He was affrighted at his threatening,

and bought Iris peace with money, and brought the tribute he

was ordered to bring for three years.

2. But on the third year, upon hearing that the king of the

Babylonians made an expedition against the Egyptians, he did

not pay his tribute, yet was he disappointed of his hope, for the

Egyptians durst not fight at this time. And indeed the prophet

Jeremiah foretold every day, how vainly they relied on their

hopes from Egypt, and how the city would be overthrown bv

the king of Babylon, and Jehoiakim the king would be subdued,

by him. But what he thus spake proved to be of no advantao-e

to them, because there were none that should escape; for both the

multitude, and the rulers, when they heard him, had no concern

about what they heard; but being displeased at what was said,

