Chap. VIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 269

Phasael, and Herod, who was afterwards made king, and Jo­

seph, and Pheroras; and a daughter named Salome. This An-

tipater cultivated also a friendship and mutual kindness with

other potentates but especially with the king of Arabia, to

'whom he committed his children, while he fought against Aris-

tobulus. So Cassius removed his camp, and marched to Eu­

phrates, to meet those that were coming to attack him, as hath

been related by others.

4. But some time afterward, Caesar, when he had taken

Rome, and after Pompey and the senate were fled beyond the

Ionian sea, freed Aristobulus from his bonds, and resolved to

send him into Syria, and delivered two legions to him, that he

might see matters right, as being a potent man in that country:

But Aristobulus had no enjoyment of what he hoped for from

the power that was given him by Caesar, for those of Pompey's

party prevented it, and destroyed him by poison, and those of Ce­

sar's party buried him. His dead body also lay, for a good while,

embalmed in honey, till Antony afterward sent it to Judea, and

caused him to be buried in the royal sepulchre. But Scipio,

upon Pompey's sending to him to slay Alexander, the son of

Aristobulus, because the young man was accused of what offen­

ces he had been guilty of at first against the Romans, cut off his

head; and thus did he die at Antioch. But Ptolemy, the son

of Menneus, who was the ruler of Chalcis, under mount Liba-

nus, took his brethren to him, and sent his son Philippion to

Askelon to Aristobulus' wife, and desired her to send back

with him her son Antigonus, and her daughters: The one of

which, whose name was Alexandra, Philippion fell in love with

and married her, though afterward his father Ptolemy slew

him, and married Alexandra, and continued to take care of her

brethren.

CHAP. VIII.

The Jems become confederates with Caesar when he fought against

Egypt. The glorious actions of Antipater, and his friendship

with Ccesar. The honours which the Jews received from the

Romans and Athenians.

5 1. Now after Pompey was dead, and after that victory

Caesar had gained over him, Antipater, who managed the Jew­

ish affairs, became very useful to Caesar when he made war

against Egypt, and that by the order of Hyrcanus: For. when

Mithridates of Pergamus was bringing his auxiliaries, and was

not able to continue his march through Pelusium, but obliged to

stay at Askelon, Antipater came to him, conducting three thou­

