304 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIV.

withal, and the kindness he had always showed him, as also to

gratify Antony, who was very zealous for Herod. So a senate

was convocated; and Massala, first, and then Atratinus, introduc­

ed Herod into it, and enlarged upon the benefits they had receiv­

ed from his father, and put them in mind of the good-will he

had borne to the Romans. At the same time they accused An-

tigonus, and declared him an enemy, not only because of his for­

mer opposition to them, but that he had now overlooked the Ro­

mans, and taken the government from the Parthians. Upon this

the senate was irritated; and Antony informed them farther,

that it was for their advantage in the Parthian war that Herod

should be king. This seemed good to all the senators; and so

they made a decree accordingly.

5. And this was the principal instance of Antony's affection

for Herod, that he not only procured him a kingdom which he

did not expect, for he did not come with an intention to ask the

kingdom (for himself, which he did not suppose the Romans

would grant him, who used to bestow it on some of the royal fa­

mily, but intended to desire it for his wife's brother, who was

grandson by his father to Aristobulus, and to Hyrcanus by his

mother,) but that he procured it for him so suddenly that he ob­

tained what he did not expect, and departed out of Italy in so

few days as seven in all. This young man [the grandson] He­

rod afterward took care to have slain, as we shall show in its pro­

per place. But when the senate was dissolved Antony and Cae­

sar went out of the senate-house, with Herod between them, and

with the consuls and other magistrates before them, in order to

offer sacrifices, and to lay up their decrees in the capitol. An­

tony also feasted Herod the first day of his reign. And thus did

this man receive the kingdom, having obtained it on the hundred

and eighty-fourth Olympiad, when Caius Domitius Calvinus was

consul the second time, and Caius Asinius Pollio [the first time.]

6. All this while Antigonus besieged those that were in Mas-

sada, who had plenty of all other necessaries, but were only in

want * of water, insomuch that on this occasion Joseph, Herod's

brother, was contriving to run away from it, with two hundred

of his dependents, to the Arabians; for he had heard that Mal-

chus repented of the offences he had been guilty of with regard

to Herod: but God, by sending rain in the night time prevent­

ed his going away, for their cisterns were thereby filled, and he

was under no necessity of running away on that account; but they

were now of good courage, and the more so, because the sending

that plenty of water which they had been in want of, seemed a

* This grievous want of water at Massada, till the place had like to have beea  
taken by the Parthians, mentioned both here, and of the War, B. I chap. xv.
sect. 1.

vol. III. is an indication that it was now summer time.

