Chap. I. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 49

't

bis country, he fell upon his face, and besought God, and entreat­

ed him to assist them, now they had no other hope of relief. He

also sent some of his friends, and some of the priests, to the pro­

phet Isaiah, and desired, that he would pray to God, and offer

sacrifices for their common deliverance, and so'put up supplica­

tions to him, that he would have indignation at the expectations

of their enemies, and have mercy on his people. And when

the prophet had done accordingly, an oracle came from God to

him, and encouraged the king and friends that were about

him; and foretold, that "their enemies should be beaten with-

"out fighting, and should go away in an ignominious manner,

"and not with that insolence which they now show, for that

"God would take care that they should be destroyed." He also

foretold, that "Sennacherib the king of Assyria, should fail of

"his purpose against Egypt, and that when he came home he

"should perish by the sword."

4. About the same time also, the king of Assyria wrote an

epistle to Hezekiah, in which he said, "he was a foolish man in

"supposing that he should escape from being his servant, since

"he had already brought under many and great nations; and he

"threatened, that when he took him, he would utterly destroy

"him, unless be now opened the gates, and willingly received his

"army into Jerusalem." When he read this epistle, he despised

it on account of the trust that he had in God, but he rolled up

the epistle, and laid it up within the temple. And as he made

his farther prayers to God for the city, and for the preservation

of all the people, the prophet Isaiah said, that " God had heard

"his prayer, and that he should not be * besieged at this time by

"the king of Assyria; that for the future he might be secure

"'of not being at all disturbed by him; and the people might

"go on peaceably, and without fear, with their husbandry and

"other affairs." But after a little while, the king of Assyria, when

he had failed of his treacherous designs against the Egyptians,

returned home without success, on the following occasion: He

spent a long tune in the siege of Pelusium ; 'and when the banks

* What Josephus says here, how Isaiah the prophet assured Hezekiah, that "at  
"this time he should not be besieged by the king of Assyria, that for the
future he

"might be secure of being not at all disturbed by him; and that [afterward]
the

"people might go on peaceably, and without fear, with their husbandry and
other

"affaire," is more distinct in our other copies, both of the Kings and of
Isaiah, and

deserves very great consideration. The words are these: "This shall be a sign
unto

"thee; ye shall eat this year such as groweth of itself; and the second year
that which.

"springeth of the same; and in the third year sow ye, and reap, and plant
vine-

"yards, and eat the fruit thereof," 2 Kings xix. 20. Isa. xxxvii. 30. which
seem

to me plainly to design a sabbatic year, a year of Jubilee, next after it, and
the

succeeding usual labours and fruits of them on the third and following years.

