Chap. III. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 197

"places thereto belonging, or who owe the king money, or are

"there on any other account let them be set free, and let their

"goods be in safety. I also give you leave to repair and re-

"build your temple, and that all be done at my expense. I

"also allow you to build the walls of your city, and to erect

"high towers, and that they be erected at my charge. And if

"there be any fortified town that would be convenient for the

"Jewish country to have very strong, let it be so built at my

"expenses."

4. This was what Demetrius promised, and granted to the

Jews, by this letter. But king Alexander raised a great army

of mercenary soldiers, and of those that deserted to him out of

Syria, and made an expedition against Demetrius. And when

it was come to a battle, the left wing of Demetrius put those

who opposed them to flight, and pursued them a great way, and

slew many of them, and spoiled their camp, but the right wing,

where Demetrius happened to be, was beaten; and as for all

the rest, they ran away: but Demetrius fought courageously,

and slew a great many of the enemy; but as he was in the pur­

suit of the rest, his horse carried him into a deep bog, where it

was hard to get out, and there it happened, that upon his horse's

falling down, he could not escape being killed; for > when his

enemies saw what had befallen him, they returned back, and en­

compassed Demetrius round, and they all threw their darts at

him; but he being now on foot, fought bravely, but at length

he received so many wounds, that he was not able to bear up

any longer, but fell. And this is the end that Demetrius came

to when he had reigned * eleven years, as we have elsewhere

related.

CHAP. III.

The friendship that was between Onias and Ptolemy Philometer;

and how Onias built a temple in Egypt like to that at Jerusa­

lem.

§ 1. -DUT then the son of Onias the high priest, who was of

the same name with his father, and who fled to king Ptolemy,

who was called Philometer, lived now at Alexandria, as we

have said already. When this Onias saw that Judea was op­

pressed by the Macedonians, and their kings, out of a desire

to purchase to himself a memorial and eternal fame, he resolved

to send to king Ptolemy and queen Cleopatra, to ask leave of

* Since the rest of the historians now extant give this Demetrius 13 years, and  
Josephus only 11 years, Dean Frideaux does not amiss in ascribing to him the

mean number 12.

