Chap. III. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 327

dered ; but Cleopatra, as she had formerly been desirous to give

her what satisfaction she could, and commiserating Alexandra's

misfortunes, made the case her own, and would not let Antony

be quiet, but excited him to punish the child's murder; for that

it was an unworthy thingthat Herod, who had been by him made

king of a kingdom that no way belonged to him, should be guilty

of such horrid crimes against those that were of the royal blood

in reality. Antony was persuaded by these arguments; and

when he came to Laodicea, he sent and commanded Herod to

come and make his defence, as to what he had done to Aristo-

bulus, for that such a treacherous design was not well done, if he

had any hand in it. Herod was now in fear, both of the ac­

cusation, and of Cleopatra's ill-will to him, which was such, that

she was ever endeavouring to make Antony hate him. He

therefore determined to obey his summons, for he had no pos­

sible way to avoid it: so he left his uncle, Joseph, procurator

for his government, and for the public affairs, and gave him a

private charge, that if Antony should kill him he also should

kill Mariamne immediately; for that he had a tender affection

for this his wife, and was afraid of the injury that should be of­

fered him, if, after his death, she, for her beauty, should be en­

gaged to some other man: but his intimation was nothing but

this at the bottom, that Antony had fallen in love with her

when he had formerly heard somewhat of her beauty: So

when Herod had given Joseph this charge, and had indeed no

sure hopes of escaping with his life^he went away to Antony.

6. But as Joseph was administering the public affairs of the

kingdom, and for that reason was very frequently with Ma­

riamne, both because his business required it, and because of

the respects he ought to pay to the queen, he frequently let him­

self into discourses about Herod's kindness, and great affection

towards her; and when the women, especially Alexandra,

used to turn his discourses into feminine raillery, Joseph was

so over desirous to demonstrate the king's inclinations, that he

proceeded so far as to mention the charge he had received, and

thence drew his demonstration, that Herod was not able to

live without her; and that if he should come to any ill end, he

could not endure a separation from her, even after he was dead.

Thus spoke Joseph. But the women, as was natural, did not

take this to be an instance of Herod's strong affection for them,

but of hfe severe usage of them, that they could not escape de-

structionAor a tyrannical death, even when he was dead him­

self: an Jwhis saying [of Joseph's] was a foundation for the

women'sMvere suspicions about him afterwards.

7. At^pis time a report went about the city Jerusalem,

among Herod's enemies, that Antony had tortured Herod, and

