328 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book.XV.

put him to death. This report, as is natural, disturbed those

that were about the palace, but chiefly the women: Upon

which Alexandra endeavoured to persuade Josephtogoout of the

palace, and fly to the ensigns of the Roman legion, which then

lay encamped about the city as a guard to the kingdom, under

the command of Julius; for that, by this means, if any disturb足

ance should happen about the palace, they should be in greater

security, as having the Romans favourable to them; and that

besides, they hoped to obtain the highest authority, if Antony

did but once see Mariamne, by whose means they should re足

cover the kingdom, and want nothing which was reasonable

for them to hope for, because of their royal extraction.

8. But as they were in the midst of these deliberations, letters

were brought from Herod about all his affairs, and proved con足

trary to the report, and of what they before expected; for when

he was come to Antony, he soon recovered his interest with

him, by the presents he made him, which he had brought with

him from Jerusalem, and he soon induced him, upon discoursing

with him, to leave off' his indignation at him, so that Cleopatra's

persuasions had less force than the arguments and presents he

brought, to regain his friendship, for Antony said, That, "it

"was not good to require an account of a king, as to the affairs

"of his government, for at this rate he could be no king at all,

"but that those who had given him that authority ought to per- .

"mit him to make use of it." He also said" the same things to

Cleopatra, that it would be best for her not busily to meddle

with the acts of the king's government. Herod wrote an ac足

count of these things, and "enlarged upon the other honours

"which he had received from Antony: how he sat by him at

"his hearing causes, and took his diet with him every day,

"and that he enjoyed those favours from him, notwithstanding

"the reproaches that Cleopatra so severely laid against him,

"who having a great desire of his country, and earnestly en-

"treating Antony that the kingdom might be given to her, la-

"boured with her utmost diligence to have him out of the way,

"but that he still found Antony just to him, and had no longer

"any apprehensions of hard treatment from him; and that he

"was soon upon his return, with a firmer additional assurance

"of his favour to him, in his reigning and managing public

"affairs; and that there was no longer any hope for Cleopatra's

"covetous temper, since Antony had given her Ccelesyria in-

"stead of what she desired, by which means he had at once

"pacified her, and got clear, of the entreaties which she made

"him to have Judea bestowed upon her."

9. When these letters were brought, the women left off their

attempt for flying to the Romans, which they thought of while

