310 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIV.

bels he slew, and others of them, who had fled to the strong­

holds, he besieged, and both slew them, and demolished their

strongholds: and when he had thus put an end to their re­

bellion, he laid a fine upon the cities of a hundred talents.

7. In the meantime Pacorus was fallen in a battle, and the

Parthians were defeated. When Ventidius sent Macherus to the

assistance of Herod, with two legions and a thousand horsemen,

while Antony encouraged him to make haste. But Macherus,

at the instigation of Antigonus, without the approbation of He­

rod, as being corrupted by money, went about to take a view of

his affairs: but Antigonus suspecting this intention of his coming,

did not admit him into the city, but kept him at a distance, with

throwing stones at him, and plainly showed what he himself

meant. But when Macherus was sensible that Herod had given

him good advice, and that he had made a mistake hinuelf in not

hearkening to the advice, he retired to the city Emmaus; and

what Jews he met with he slew them, whether they were ene­

mies, or friends, out of the rage he was in at what hardships he

had undergone. The king was provoked at this conduct of his,

and went to Samaria, and resolved to go to Antony about these

affairs, and to inform him that he stood in no need of such

helpers who did him more mischief than they did his enemies,

and that he was able of himself to beat Antigonus; but Macherhs

followed him, and desired that he would not go to Antony, or,

if he was resolved to go, that he would join his brother Jo­

seph with them, and let them fight against Antigonus. So he

was reconciled to Macherus, upon his earnest entreaties. Ac­

cordingly he left Joseph there with his army, but charged him

to run no hazards, nor to quarrel with Macherus.

8. But for his own part, he made haste to Antony, (who was

then at the siege of Samosata, a place upon Euphrates,) with his

troops, both horsemen and footmen, to be auxiliaries to him:

and when he came to Antioch, and met there a great number

of men gotten together that were very desirous to go to Antony,

but durst not venture to go out of fear, because the Barba­

rians fell upon men on the road, and slew many, so he encour­

aged them, and became their conductor upon the road. Now

when they were within two days' march of Samosata, the Barba­

rians had laid an ambush there to disturb those that came to An­

tony, and there the woods made the passes narrow, as they led to

the plains, where they laid not a few of their horsemen, who'

were to lie still until those passengers were gone by into the wide

place. Now as soon as their first ranks were gone by, (for He­

rod brought on the rear,) those that lay in ambush, who were

about five hundred, fell upon them on the sudden,'and when they

had put the. foremost to flight, the king came riding hard, with"

