168 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XII.

"by them represented to us, that they are no way concerned

"with accusations which belong to the Jews, but choose to live

"after the customs of the Greeks. Accordingly we declare

"them free from such accusations, and order that, agreeable to

"their petition, their temple be named, The temple of Jupiter

"Hellenius." He also sent the like epistle to Appollonius, the

governor of that part of the country, in the forty-sixth year,

and the eighteenth day of the month Hecatombeon.

CHAP. VI.

How, upon Antiochus' prohibition to the Jews to make use of the

laws of their country, Mattathias the son of Asmoneus, alone

despised the king, and overcame the generals of Antiochus'

army; as also concerning the death of Mattathias, and the

succession of Judas.

§ 1. JN ow at this time there was one whose name was Mat­

tathias, who dwelt at Modin, the son of John, the son of Sim­

eon, the son of Asmoneus, a priest of the order of Joarib,

and a citizen of Jerusalem. He had five sons, John, who was

called Gaddis, and Simon who was called Matthes, and Judas

who was called Maccabeus,* and Eleazar, who was called Au-

ran, and Jonathan, who was called Apphus. Now this Mattathias

lamented to his children the sad state of their affairs, and the

ravage made in the city, and the plundering of the temple, and

the calamities the multitude were under; and he told them, that

it was better for them to die for the laws of their country, than

to live so ingloriously as they then did.

2. But when those that were appointed by the king were come

to Modin, that they might compel the Jews to do what they

were commanded; and to enjoin those that were there to offer

sacrifice, as the king had commanded, they desired that Matta­

thias, a person of the greatest character among them, both on

other accounts, and particularly on account of such a numerous

and so deserving a family of children, would begin the sacrifice,

because his fellow-citizens would follow his example, and be­

cause such a procedure would make him honoured by the king.

But Mattathias said, "he would not do it; and that if all the

* That this appellation of Maccabee was not first of all given to Judas Maccabeus,  
nor was derived from any initial letters of the Hebrew words on his banner,

Mi Kamoka Be Elim, Jehovah? Who is like unto tfiee amojig the gods, 0 Jehovah?

Exod. xv. 11. as the modern Rabbins vainly pretend, see Authcnt. Rec. pan I.

p. 2O5, 206. Only we may note, by the way, that the original name of these

Maccabees, and their posterity, was Asmonians; which was derived from
Asmoneus,

the great grandfather of Mattathias, as Josephus here informs us.

