Chap. IV. ANTIQUITIES QT THE JEWS. 13

about them; and prayed to God to clear the eyes of these their

enemies, and take the mist from before them. Accordingly

when they were freed from the obscurity they had been in; they

saw themselves in the midst of their enemies; and as the Syrians

were strangely amazed and distressed, as was but reasonable, at

an action so divine and surprising; and as king Joram asked the

prophet, if he would give him leave to shoot at them: Elisha

forbade him so to do; and said, that "it is just to kill those that

"are taken in battle, but that these men had done the country

"no harm, but without knowing it, were come thither by the

"divine power." So that his counsel was to treat them in a

hospitable manner at his table, and then send them away with­

out hurting them.* Wherefore Joram obeyed the prophet;

and when he had feasted the Syrians in a splendid and magnifi­

cent manner, he let them go to Benhadad their king.

4% Now when these men were come back, and had showed Ben-

fiaclad how strange an accident had befallen them, and what an

appearance and power they had experienced of the God of Israel,

he wondered at it, as also at that prophet with whom God was

so evidently present: so he determined to make no more secret

attempts upon the king of Israel, out of fear of Elisha, but re­

solved to make open war with them, as supposing he could be

too hard for his enemies by the multitude of his army and power.

So he made an expedition with a great army, against Joram, who,

not thinking himself a match for him, shut himself up in Sama­

ria, and depended on the strength of its walls; but Benhadad

supposed he should-take the city, if not by his engines of war, yet

that he should overcome the Samaritans by famine, and the want

of necessaries, and brought his army upon them, and besieged the

city; and the plenty of necessaries was brought so low with Jo-

ram, and from the extremity of want an ass's head was sold in

Samaria, for fourscore pieces of silver, and the Hebrews bought

a sextary of dove's dung, instead of salt, for five pieces of silver.

Now Joram was in fear lest somebody should betray the city to

the enemy, by reason of the famine, and went every day round

the walls and the guards, to see whether any such were concealed

among them; and by being thus seen, and taking such care, he

deprived them of the opportunity of contriving any such thing,

and if they had a mind to do it, he, by this means, prevented

them; but upon a certain woman's crying out, "Have pity on

* Upon occasion of this stratagem of ElUha's in Josephus, we may take no­  
tice that although Josephus was one of the greatest lovers of truth in the
world,

yet in a just war he seems to have had no manner of scruple upon him l;y ail

such stratagems possible to deceive public enemies. See also Josephus' account

of Jeremiah's imposition on the great men of the Jews in somewhat a like case.

Antiij. 13. X. cb. vii. sect. 6. and 2 Sam. xvi. 16, &c.

