Chap. I. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 69

BOOK XL

CONTAINING THE INTERVAL OF TWO HUNDRED AND FIFTY-

THREE YEARS AND FIVE MONTHS.

[FROM THE FIRST OF CYRUS TO THE DEATH OF ALEXAN­

DER THE GREAT.]

CHAP. I.

How Cyrus, king of the Persians, delivered the Jews out of Baby­

lon, and suffered them to return to their own country, and to

build their temple^for which work he gave them money.

J 1. IN the first year of the reign of * Cyrus, which was the

seventieth from the day that our people were removed out of

their own land into Babylon, God commiserated the captivity

and calamity of these poor people, according as he had fiStetold

to them by Jeremiah the prophet, before the destruction of the

city; that after they had served Nebuchadnezzar and his posteri­

ty, and after they had undergone that servitude seventy years,

he would restore them again to the land of their fathers, and

they should build their temple, and enjoy their ancient prosperity.

And these things God did afford them: for he stirred up the

mind of Cyrus, and made him write this throughout all Asia,

"Thus saith Cyrus the king, since God Almighty hath appoint-

"edme to be king of the habitable earth, I believe that he is that

"God which the nation of the Israelites worship, for indeed he

"foretold my name by the prophets, and that I should build

"him an house at Jerusalem, in the country of Judea.

2. This was known to Cyrus by his reading the book which

Isaiah left behind him of his prophecies; for this prophet said,

that God hath spoken thus to him in a secret vision; " My will

"is, that Cyrus, whom I have appointed to be king over many

"and great nations, send back my people to their own land; and

"build my temple." This was foretold by Isaiah one hundred and

forty years before the temple Was demolished. Accordingly when

* This Cyrus is called God's shepherd, by Xenophon, as well as by Isaiah, Isa.  
xliv. 28". as also it is said of him by the same prophet, that '* I will make
a man more

"precious than fine gold, 'even a man than the golden wedge of Ophir." Isa.
xiii.

12. which character makes Xenophon's most excellent history of him very
credible.

