Chap. XI. ANTIQUITIES OF THti JEWS. 2SS

on his head, four hundred eighty and one years and three

months after the people had been delivered from the Babylonish

slavery, and were returned to their own country again. This

Aristobulus loved his next brother Antigonus, and treated him

as his equal, but the others he held in bonds. He also cast his

mother into prison, because she disputed the government with

him, for Hyrcanus had left her to be mistress of all. He also

proceeded to that degree of barbarity, as to kill her in prison

with hunger; nay, he was alienated from his brother Antigo­

nus by calumnies, and added him to the rest whom he slew, yet

he seemed to. have an affection for him, and made him above the

rest a partner with him in the kingdom. Those calumnies he

at first did not give credit to, partly because he loved him, and

so did not give heed to what was said against him, and partly

because he thought the reproaches were derived from the envy

of the relaters. But when Antigonus was once returned from

the army, and that feast was then at hand when they make ta­

bernacles to the [honour of] God, it happened that Aristobulus

was fallen sick, and that Antigonus went up most splendidly

adorned, and with his soldiers about him in their armour, to

the temple to celebrate the feast, and to put up many prayers

for the recovery of his brother, when some wicked persons,

who had a great mind to raise a difference between the breth­

ren, made use of this opportunity of the pompous appearance

of Antigonus, and of the great actions which he had done, and

went to the king, and spitefully aggravated the pompous show

of his at the feast, and pretended that all these circumstances

were not like those of a private person; that these actions were

indications of an affectation of royal authority; and that his

coming with a strong body of men must be with an intention to

kill him; and that his way of reasoning was this, that it was a

silly thing in him, while it was in his power to reign himself^

to look upon it as a great favour that he was honoured with a

lower dignity by his brother.

2. 'Aristobulus yielded to these imputations, but took c#re

both that his brother should not suspect him, and that he him­

self might not run the hazard of his own safety; so he ordered

his guards to lie in a certain place that was underground, and

dark, (he himself then lying sick in the tower which was called

Antonia,) and he commanded them, that in case Antigonus

came in to him unarmed, they should not touch any body, but

if armed, they should kill him; yet did he send to Antigonus,

and desired that he would come unarmed: But the queen, and

those that joined with her in the plot against Antigonus, per­

suaded the messenger to tell him the direct contrary: How his

brother had heard that he had made himself a fine suit of armour

