234 . ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIII.

for war, and desired him to come to him in that armour, that he

might see how fine it was. So Antigonus suspecting no treach­

ery, but depending on the good-will of his brother, came to

Aristobulus armed, as he used to be, with his entire armour,

in order to show it to him; but when he was come at a place

which was called Strato's Tower, where the passage happened

to be exceeding dark, the guards slew him; which death of his

demonstrates that nothing is stronger than envy and calumny,

and that nothing does more certainly divide the good-will and

natural affections of men than those passions. But here one

may take occasion to wonder at one Judas, who was of the sect

of tlie Essens, and who never missed the truth in his predictions;

for this man when he saw Antigonus passing by the temple,

cried out to his companions and friends, who abode with him

as his * scholars, in order to learn the art of foretelling things to

come, "That it was good for him to die now, since he had

"spoken falsely about Antigonus, who is still alive, and I see

"him passing by, although he had foretold he should die at

"the place called Strato's Tower, that very day, while yet the

"place is six hundred furlongs off, where he had foretold he

"should be slain; and still this day is a great part of it already

"past, so that he was in danger of proving a false prophet."

As he was saying this, and that in a melancholy mood, the

news came that Antigonus was slain in a place under ground,

which itself was called also Strato's Tower, or of the same name

with that Cesarea which is seated at the sea. This event put

the prophet into a great disorder.

3. But Aristobulus repented immediately of this slaughter of

his brother, on which account his disease increased upon him,

and he was disturbed in his mind, upon the guilt of such wick­

edness, insomuch that his entrails were corrupted by his intol­

erable pain, and he vomited blood: at which time one of the

servants that attended upon him, and was carrying his blood

away, did, by divine providence, as I cannot but suppose, slip

down and shed part of his blood at the very place where there

were spots of Antigonus' blood there slain, still remaining;

and when there was a cry made by the spectators, as if the ser­

vant had on purpose shed the blood on that place, Aristobulus

heard it and inquired what the matter was? And as they

did not answer him, he was the more earnest to know what it

* Hence we learn that the Essens pretended to have rules whereby men might  
foreteli things to come, and that this Judas the Essen, taught those rules to
his

scholars; but whether their pretences were of an astrological or magical
nature,

which yet in such religious Jews, who were utterly forbidden such ans, is no
way

probable, or to any Bath Col, spoken of by the latter Rabbins, or otherwise, I
can­

not tell. See of the War, B. II. chap. viii. sect. 12. vol. III.

