Chap. VI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 215

CHAP. VI.

HffiD Jonathan was slain by treachery; and how thereupon the

Jews made Simon their general and high priest: what coura­

geous actions also he performed, especially against Trypho.

6 1. Now when Trypho knew what had befallen Deme­

trius, he was no longer firm to Antiochus, but contrived by

subtilty to kill him, and then take possession of his kingdom;

but the fear that he was in of Jonathan was an obstacle to this

his design, for Jonathan was a friend to Antiochus, for which

cause he resolved first to take Jonathan out of the way, and then

to set about his design relating to Antiochus; but he judging it

best to take him off by deceit and treachery, came from Antioch

to Bethshan, which by the Greeks is called Scythopolis, at which

place Jonathan met him with forty thousand chosen men, for he

thought that he came to fight him; but when he perceived that

Jonathan was ready to fight, he attempted to gain him by pre­

sents, and kind treatment, and gave order to his captains to obey

him, and by these means was desirous to give assurance of his

good-will, and to take away all suspicions out of his mind, that

so he might make him careless and inconsiderate, and might take

him when he was unguarded. He also advised him to dismiss

his army, because there was no occasion for bringing it with

him when there was no war, but all was in peace. However,

he desired him to retain a few about him, and go with him to

Ptolemais, for that he would deliver the city up to him, and

would bring all the fortresses that were in the country under his

dominion; and he told him, that he came with those very designs.

2. Yet did not Jonathan suspect any thing at all by this his

management,' but believed that Trypho gave him this advice out

of kindness, and with a sincere design. Accordingly, he dismissed

his army; and retained no more than three thousand of them

with him, and left two thousand in Galilee, and he himself, with

one thousand, came with Trypho to Ptolemais: But when the

people of Ptolemais had shut their gates, as it had been com­

manded by Trypho to do, he took Jonathan alive, and slew all

that were with him. He also sent soldiers against those two

thousand that were left in Galilee, in order to destroy them: but

those men having heard the report of what had happened to Jo­

nathan, they prevented the execution, and before those that were

sent by Trypho came, they covered themselves with their ar­

mour, and went away out of the country. Now when those that

were sent against them saw that they were ready to fight for

their lives, they gave them no disturbance, but returned back

to Trypho.

