Chap. XV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 305

mark of divme providence; so they made a sally, and fought

hand to hand with Antigonus' soldiers, with some openly, with

some privately, and destroyed a great number of them. At the

same time, Ventidius, the general of the Romans, was sent out

of Syria, to drive the Parthians out of it, and marched after them

into Judea, in pretence indeed to succour Joseph, but in reality

the whole affair was no more than a stratagem, in order to get

money of Antigonus; so they pitched their camp very near to

Jerusalem, and wiped off Antigonus a great deal of money, and

then he retired himself with the greater part of the army; but,

that the wickedness he had been guilty of might not be found out,

he left Silo there, with a certain part of his soldiers, with whom

also Antigonus cultivated an acquaintance, that he might cause

him no disturbance, and was still in hopes that the Parthians

would come again and defend him.

CHAP. XV.

Haw Herod sailed out of Italy to Judea, and fought with An­

tigonus; and what other things happened in Judea about that

time.

§ 1. BY this time Herod had sailed out of Italy to Pto-

lemais, and had gotten together no small army, both of strang­

ers and of his own countrymen, and marched through Galilee

against Antigonus. Silo also, and Ventidius, came and assisted

him, being persuaded by Dellius, who was sent by Antony to

assist in bringing back Herod. Now for Ventidius, he was em­

ployed in composing the disturbances that had been made hi the

cities by the means of the Parthians; and for Silo, he was in Ju­

dea indeed, but corrupted by Antigonus. However, as Herod

went along, his army increased every day, and all Galilee, with

some small exception, joined him; but as he was marching to

those that were at Massada, for he was obliged to endeavour to

save those that were in that fortress, now they were besieged,

because they were his relations: Joppa was a hinderance to him,

for it was necessary for him to take that place first, it being a

city at variance with him, that no strong hold might be left in his

enemies' hands behind him when he should go to Jerusalem: and

when Silo made this a pretence for rising up from Jerusalem,

and was thereupon pursued by the Jews, Herod fell upon them

with a small body of men, and both put the Jews to flight and

saved Silo, when he was very poorly able to defend himself; but

when Herod had taken Joppa, he made haste to set free those of

his family that were in Massada. Now of the people of the coun­

try, some joined him because of the friendship they had had with

