2+2 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIII.

making war against the Parthians, and as he was fighting cour­

ageously, he tell, while Demetrius and Philip governed Syria,

as hath been elsewhere related.

5. As to Alexander, his own people were seditious against

him; for at a festival which was then celebrated, when he stood

upon the altar, and was going to sacrifice, the nation rose upon

him, and pelted him with citrons, [which they then had in their

hands,] because the law of the Jews required, that at the feast

of tabernacles every one should have branches of the palm-tree

and citron-tree: which thing we have elsewhere related. They

also reviled him, as * derived from a captive, and so unworthy

of his dignity, and of sacrificing. At this he was in a rage,

and slew of them about six thousand. He also built a parti­

tion wall of wood round the altar and the temple, as far as

that partition within which it was only lawful for the priests

to enter, and by this means he obstructed the multitude from

coming at him. He also maintained foreigners of Pisidiae and

Cilicia, for as to the Syrians, he was at war with them, and so

made no use of them. He also overcame the Arabians, such as

the Moabites, and Gileadites, and made them bring tribute.

Moreover, he demolished Amathus, while f Theodorus durst

not fight with him; but as he had joined battle with Obedas, king

of the Arabians, and fell into an ambush in the places that

were rugged and difficult to be travelled over, he was thrown

down into a deep valley, by the multitude of the camels at Ga-

dara, a village of Gilead, and hardly escaped with his life.

From thence he fled to Jerusalem, where, besides his other ill

success, the nation insulted him, and he fought against them

for six years, and slew no fewer than fifty thousand of them.

And when he desired that they would desist from their ill-will

to him, they hated him so much the more, on account of what

had already happened; and when he had asked them what he

ought to do; they all cried out, that "he ought to kill himself."

They also sent to Demetrius Eucerus, and desired him to make

a league of mutual defence with them.

says, that this Antiochus Pius did rot die in this battle, but running away,
was

drowned in the river Orontes. Appian says that he was deprived of the kingdom
of

Syria by Tigraties; but Porphyry makes this Loadice, Queen of the Calamans—All

which is noted by Spanheim. In such confusion of the latter historians, we
have no

reason to prefer any of them before Josephus, who had more original ones
before

him. »

* This reproach upon Alexander, that he was sprung from a captive, seems  
only the repetition of the old Pharisaical calumny upon his father, chap. x.

sect. v.

f This Theodorus was the son of Zeno, and was in possession of Amathus, as we

learn from sect 3. foregoing.

