Chap. X. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. JS

other. He replied, that he was ready to serve them in what

they desired, but he suspected that they would he discovered by

the king, from their meagre bodies, and the alteration of their

countenances, because it could not be avoided but their bodies

and colours must be changed with their diet, especially while

they would be clearly discovered by the finer appearance of the

other children, who would fare better, and thus they should

bring him in danger, and occasion him to be punished: yet did

they persuade Arioch, who was thus fearful, to give them what

food they desired for ten days, by wny of trial, and in case the

habit of their bodies were not altered, to go on in the same way>

as expecting that they should not be hurt thereby afterwards, but

if he saw them look meagre, and worse than the rest, he should

reduce them to their former diet. Now, when it appeared that

they were so far from becoming worse by the use of this food,

that they grew plumper and fuller in body than the rest, inso­

much that he thought those who fed on what came from the king's

table seemed less plump and full, while those that were with Da­

niel looked as if they had lived in plenty, and all sorts of luxury;

Arioch, from that time, securely took himself what the king

sent every day from his supper, according to custom^ to the

children, but gave them the forementioned diet, while they

had their souls in some measure more pure, and less burdened,

and so fitter for learning, and had their bodies in better tune

for hard labour, for they neither had the former oppressed and

heavy with variety of meats, nor were the other effeminate on

the same account; so they readily understood all the learning

that was among the Hebrews, and among the Chaldeans, as es­

pecially did Daniel, who being already sufficiently skilful in wis­

dom, was very busy about the interpretation of dreams; and

God manifested himself to him. - ,

3. Now two years after the destruction of Egypt, king Ne­

buchadnezzar saw a wonderful dream, the accomplishment of

which God showed him in his sleep, but when he arose out of

his bed, he forgot the accomplishment: So he sent for the Chal­

deans and magicians, and the prophets, and told them, that he

had seen a dream, and informed them that he had forgotten the

accomplishment of what he had seen, and he enjoined them to tell

him, both what the dream was, and what was its signification;

and they said that this was a thing impossible to be discovered

by men, but they promised him, that if he would explain to them

what dream he had seen, they would tell him its signification.

Hereupon he threatened to put them to death; unless they told

him his dream: and he gave command to have them all put to

death, since they confessed they could not do what they were

commanded to do. Now when Daniel heard that the king had

VOL. II.

