Chap. VII. ANTIQUITIKS OF THE JEWS. 345

CHAP. VII.

How Herod sieve Sohemus, and Mariamne, and afterward Alex­

andra, and Costobarus, and his mast intimate friends, and at

last the sons of Baba also.

§ 1. Irl OWEVER, when he came into his kingdom agam, he

found his house all in disorder, and his wife Mariamne and her

mother Alexandra very uneasy; for, as they supposed, what was

easy to be supposed, that they were not put into that fortress

EAlexandrium] for the security of their persons, but as into a

garrison for their imprisonment, and that they had no power

over any thing, either of others, or of their own affairs, they

were very uneasy; and Mariamne supposing that the king's

love to her was but hypocritical, and rather pretended, as ad­

vantageous to himself, as real, she looked upon it as fallacious.

She also was grieved that he would not allow her any hopes of

surviving him, if he should come to any harm himself. She

also recollected what commands he had formerly given to Jo­

seph, insomuch that she endeavoured to please her keepers,

and especially Sohemus, as well apprised how all was in his

power. And at the first Sohemus was faithful to Herod, and

neglected none of the things he had given him in charge; but

when the women by kind words, and liberal presents, had gain­

ed his affections over to them, he was by degrees overcome, and

at length discovered to them all the king's injunctions, and this i-

on that account principally, that he did not so*'much as hope

he would come back with the same authority he had before, ^o

that he thought he should both escape any danger from him} and

supposed that he did hereby mucirgratify the women, who were

Mkely not to be overlooked in the settling of the government,

nay, that they would be able to make him abundant recom­

pense, since they must either reign themselves, or be very near

to him that should reign. He had a furthep'ground of hope al­

so, that though Herod should have all the success he could wish

for, and should return again, he could not contradict his wife in

what she desired, for he knew that the king's fondness for his

wife was inexpressible. These were the motives that drew So­

hemus to discover what injunctions had been given him. So

Mariamne was greatly displeased to hear that there was no end

of the dangers she was under from Herod, and was greatly un­

easy at it, and wished that he might obtain no favours [from

Caesar,] and esteemed it almost an insupportable task, to live

with him any longer: and this she afterward openly declared,

without concealing her resentment.

