178 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIt.

that lay upon the road, (and as it was not possible for him to go

any other way, so he was not willing to go back again), he then

sent to the inhabitants, and desired that they would open their

gates, and permit them to go on their way through the city, for

they had stopped up the gates with stones, and cut off their pas­

sage through it. And when the inhabitants of Ephron would not

agree to this proposal, he encouraged those that were with him,

and encompassed the city round, and besieged it, and lying

round it by day and night, took the city, and slew every male

in it, and burnt it all down, and so obtained a way through it;

and the multitude of those that were slain was so great, that they

went over the dead bodies. So they came over Jordan, and ar­

rived at the great plain, over against which is situate the city

Bethshan, which is called by the Greeks * Scythopolis. And

going away hastily from thence, they came into Judea, singing

psalms and hymns as they went, andindulging such tokens of mirth

as are usual in triumphs upon victory. They also offered thank-

offerings, both for their good success, and for the preservation of

their army, for -f- not one of the Jews was slain in these battles.

6. But as to Joseph, the son of Zacharias, and Azarias, whom

Judas left generals [of the rest of the forces] at the same time

when in Galilee, fighting against the people of Ptolemais, and

Judas himself and his brother Jonathan, were in the land of Gi-

lead, did these men also affect the glory of being courageous ge­

nerals in war, in order whereto they took the army that was

under their command, and came to Jamnia. There Gorgias, the

general of the forces of Jamnia, met them; and upon joining bat­

tle with him, they lost \. two thousand of their army, and fled

away, and were pursued to the very borders of Judea. And this

misfortune befell them by their disobedience to what injunctions

Judas had given them, "Not to fight with any one before his

"return." For besides the rest of Judas' sagacious counsels, one

* The reason why Betbsban was called Scythopolis, is well known from Hero­  
dotus, B. I. p. 105, and Syncellus, p. 214. that the Scythians, when they
overran

Asia, in the days of Josiah, seized on this city, and kept it as long as they
continued

in Asia, from which time it retained the name of Scythopolis, or the city of
the Scy­

thians.

f This roost providential preservation of all the religious Jews in this
expedition,

which was according to the will of God, is observable often among God's people

the Jews; and somewhat very like it in the changes of the four monarchies,
which

were also providential. See Prideaux at the years 331, 333, and 334.

\ Here is another great instance of providence, that when, even at the very
time

that Simon, and Judas, and Jonathan, were so miraculously preserved, and
blessed

in the just defence of their laws and religion, these other generals of the
Jews who

went to fight for honour, in a vain-glorious way, and without any commission
from

God, or the family he had raised up to deliver them, were miserably
disappoiutcd

and defeated. See 1 Maccab. v. 61, 62.

