318 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book X V .

BOOK XV.

CONTAINING THE INTERVAL OF EIGHTEEN YEARS.

[FROM THE DEATH OF ANTIGONUS TO THE FINISHING OF

THE TEMPLE BY HEROD.]

CHAP. I.

Concerning Pollio and Sameas. Herod slays the principal of

Antigonus' friends, and spoils the city of its wealth, Antony

beheads Antigonus.

§ 1. H ow Sosius and Herod took Jerusalem by force; and,

besides that, how they took Antigonus captive, has been related

by us in the foregoing book. We will now proceed in the nar­

ration. And since Herod had now the government of all Judea

put into his hands, he promoted such of the private men in the

city as had been of his party, but never left off avenging and

punishing every day those that had chosen to be of the party of

his enemies: But Pollio, the Pharisee, and Sameas, a disciple of

his, were honoured by him above all the rest, for when Jerusa­

lem was besieged, they advised the citizens to receive Herod,

for which advice they were well requited; but this Pollio, at

the time when Herod was once upon his trial of life and death,

foretold, in way of reproach, to Hyrcanus and the other judges,

how this Herod, whom they suffered now to escape, would after­

ward inflict punishment on them all; which had its completion

in tune, while God fulfilled the words he had spoken.

2. At this time Herod, now he had got Jerusalem under his

power, carried off all the royal ornaments, and spoiled the weal­

thy men of what they had gotten; and when, by these means,

he had heaped together a great quantity of silver and gold, he

gave it all to Antony, and his friends that were about him. He

also slew forty-five of the principal men of Antigonus' party,

and set guards at the gates of the city, that nothing might be

carried out together with their dead bodies. They also searched

the dead, and whatsoever was found, either of silver or gold,

or other treasure, it was carried to the king; nor was there any

end of the miseries he brought upon them, and this distress was

in part occasioned by the covetousness of the prince regent, who

was still in want of more, and in part by the sabbatic year, which

