3'/ ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book IX,

cause he should thereby obtain much wealth from God. So he

dismissed them, and said, that he still freely gave them their pay,

and went himself with his own army, and made war with the

nations before mentioned; and when he had beaten them in bat­

tle, he slew of them ten thousand, and took as many prisoners

alive; whom he brought to the great rock which is in Arabia,

and threw them down from it headlong. He also brought away

a great deal of prey, and vast riches, from those nations. But

while Amaziah was engaged in this expedition, those Israelites

whom he had hired, and then dismissed, were very uneasy at it,

and taking their dismission for an affront, as supposing that this

would not have been done to them but out of contempt, the}7 fell

upon his kingdom, and proceeded to spoil the country as far as

Beth-horon, and took much cattle, and slew three thousand men.

2. Now upon the victory which Amaziah had gotten, and the

great acts he had done, he was puffed up, and began to overlook

God, who had given him the victory, and proceeded to worship

the gods he had brought out of the country of the Amalekites.

So a prophet came to him and said, That "he wondered how

"he could esteem these to be gods, who had been of no advan-

"tage to their own people, who paid them honours; nor had de^

"livered them from his hand, but had overlooked the destruc-

"tion of many of them, and had suffered themselves to be car-

"ried captive; for that they had been carried to Jerusalem, in

"the same manner as any one might have taken some of the

"enemy alive, and led them thither." This reproof provoked

the king to anger, and he commanded the prophet to hold

his peace, and threatened to punish him if he meddled with his

conduct. So he replied, "That he should indeed hold his peace;

"but foretold withal, that God would not overlook his attempts

"for innovation." But Amaziah was not able to contain him­

self under that prosperity which God had given him, although

he had affronted God thereupon; but in a vein of insolence he

wrote to Joash, the king of Israel, and "commanded that he

"and all his people should be obedient to him, as they had

"formerly been obedient to his progenitors, David and Solo-

"mon; and he let him know, that if he would not be so wise

"as to do what he commanded him, he must fight for his do-

"minion." To which message Joash returned this answer

in writing: "King Joash to king Amaziah. There was a

"vastly tall cypress tree in mount Lebanon, as also a thistle:

"this thistle sent to the cypress tree to give the cypress tree's

"daughter in marriage to the thistle's son; but as the thistle

"was saying this, there came a wild beast, and trode down the

"thistle: And this may be a lesson to thee, not to be so am-

"bitious, and to have a care, lest upon thy good success in the

