146 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIT.

to receive them, he saluted the men: and said, that it was but

just to discourse, in the first place, of the errand they were sent

about, and then to address himself to themselves. He promised,

however, that he would make this day on which they came to

him remarkable and eminent every year through the whole

course of his life; for their coming to him, and the victory which

he gained over Antigonus by sea, proved to be on the very same

day. He also gave orders, that they should sup with him; and

gave it in charge that they should have excellent lodgings pro­

vided for them in the upper part of the city.

12. Now he that was appointed to take care of the reception

of strangers, Nicanor by name, called for Dorotheus, whose

duty it was to make provision for them, and bid him prepare for

every one of them what should be requisite for their diet and way

of living. Which thing was ordered by the king after this man­

ner: he took care, that those that belonged to every city, which

did not use the same way of living, that all things should be pre­

pared for them according to the custom of those that came to

him, that being feasted according to the usual method of their

own way of living, they might be the better pleased, and might

not be uneasy at any thing done to them, from which they were

naturally averse. And this was now done in the case of these

men by Dorotheus, who was put into this office because of his

great skill in such matters belonging to common life ; for he took

care of all such matters as concerned the reception of strangers,

and appointed them double seats for them to sit on, according

as the king had commanded him to do; for he had commanded

that half of their seats should be set at his hand, and the other half

behind his table, and took care that no respect should be omitted

that could be shown them. And when they were thus set down,

he bid Dorotheus to minister to all those that were come to him

from Judea, after the manner they used to be ministered to: for

which cause he sent away their sacred heralds, and those that

slew the sacrifices, and the rest that used to say grace : but call­

ed to one of those that were come to him, whose name was

Eleazar, who was a priest, and desired him to * say grace; who

then stood in the midst of them, and prayed, that " all prosperi-

"ty might attend the king, and those that were his subjects." Up­

* This is the most ancient example I have met with, of a grace, or short prayer,  
or thanksgiving before meat; which, as it used to be said by an heathen
priest,

was now said by Eleazar, a Jewish priest, who was one of these seventy-two
inter­

preters. The next example I have met with is that of the Essenes, Of the War,
B.

II. chap. viii. sect. 5. vol. III. both before and after it; those of our
Saviour before

it. Mark viii. 6. John vi. 11. 23. and St. Paul, Acts xxvii. S3. and a form of
such a

grace or prayer for Christians, at the end of the fifth book of the
Apostolical Con­

stitutions, which seems to have been intended for both times, both before and
after

meat.

