66 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book X.

"try that had fallen away to the Babylonians, lest he should be

"accused by them to the king of Babylon, and be punished."

But the prophet encouraged him, and said, " He had no cause to

"fear such punishment, for that he should not have the expe-

"rience of any misfortune, if he would deliver all up to the

"Babylonians, neither himself, nor his children, nor his wives,

"and that the temple should then continue unhurt." So when

Jeremiah had said this, the king let him go, and charged him,

"To betray what they had resolved on to none of the citizens,

"nor to tell any of these matters to any of the rulers, if they

"should have learned that he had been sent for, and should in-

"quire of him what it was that he was sent for, and what he had

"said to him? but to pretend to them, that he besought him that

"he might not be kept in bonds and in prison." And indeed he

said so to them; for they came to the prophet, and asked him,

what advice it was that he came to give the king relating to

them? and thus I have finished what concerns this matter

CHAP. VIII.

How the king of Babylon took Jerusalem and burnt the temple,

and removed the people of Jerusalem, and Zedekiah to Baby­

lon. As also, who they were that had succeeded in the high

priesthood under the kings.

§ 1. Now the king of Babylon was very intent and earnest

upon the siege of Jerusalem: and he erected towers upon great

. banks of earth, and from them repelled those that stood upon the

walls: he also made a great number of such banks round about

the whole city, whose height was equal to those walls. However,

those that were within, bore the siege with courage and alacrity,

for they were not discouraged, either by the famine, or by

the pestilential distemper, but were of cheerful minds in the pro­

secution of the war, although those miseries within oppressed

them also, and they did not suffer themselves to be te-rrified,

either by the contrivances of the enemy, or by their engines

of war, but contrived still different engines to oppose all the

other withal, till indeed there seemed to be an entire struggle

between the Babylonians, and the people of Jerusalem, which

had the greater sagacity and skill; the former party supposing

they should be thereby too hard for the other, for the destruc­

tion of the city; the latter placing their hopes of deliver­

ance in nothing else but in persevering in such inventions

in opposition to the other, as might demonstrate the enemies'

engines were useless to them. And this siege they endured

for eighteen months, until they were destroyed by the famine,

