Chap.V. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 207

"to pay any of these taxes from this time to all futurity.

"Take care therefore that a copy of this epistle be taken, and

"given to Jonathan, and be set up in an eminent place of their

"holy temple." And these were the contents of this writing.

And now when Demetrius saw that there was peace every

where; and that there was no danger, nor fear of war, he dis­

banded the greatest part of his army, and diminished their pay,

and even retained in pay no others but such foreigners as came

up with him from Crete, and from the other islands. How­

ever, this procured him ill-will and hatred from the soldiers,

on whom he bestowed nothing from this time, while the kings

before him used to pay them in time of peace, as they did be­

fore, that they might have their good-will, and that they might

be very ready to undergo the difficulties of war, if any occasion

should require it.

CHAP. V.

How Trypho, after he had beaten Demetrius, delivered the king­

dom to Antiochus, the son of Alexander, and gained Jonathan

for his assistant: And concerning the actions and embassies of

Jonathan.

§ 1. JN ow there was a certain commander of Alexander's

forces, an Apenemian by birth, whose name was Diodotus, and

was also called Trypho, took notice of the ill-will the soldiers

bare to Demetrius, and went to Malchus the Arabian, who

brought up Antiochus the son of Alexander, and told him what

ill-will the army bare Demetrius, and persuaded him to give him

Antiochus, because he would make him king, and recover to

him the kingdom of his father. Malchus at the first opposed

him in this attempt, because he could not believe him, but when

Trypho lay hard at him for a long time, he over-persuaded him,

to comply with Trypho's intentions and entreaties. And this

was the state Trypho was now in.

2. But Jonathan the high priest, being desirous to get clear

of those that were in the citadel at Jerusalem, and of the Jew­

ish deserters, and wicked men, as well as of those in all the gar­

risons in the country, sent presents and ambassadors to Deme­

trius, and entreated him to take away his soldiers out of the

strong holds of Judea. Demetrius made answer, That after the

war, which he was now deeply engaged in, was over, he would

not only grant him that, but greater things than that also, and

he desired he would send him some assistance; and informed him

that his .army had deserted him. So Jonathan chose out three

thousand of his soldiers, and sent them to Demetrius.

