Chap. VI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 117

that such honour should be paid to him; but Mordecai was so

wise, and so observant of his own country's laws, that he would

not * worship the man. When Haman observed this, he in足

quired whence he came? and when he understood that he was a

Jew, he had indignation at him, and said within himself, That

"whereas the Persians, who were free men, worshipped him,

"this man, who was no better than a slave, does not vouchsafe

"to do so." And when he desired to punish Mordecai, he thought

it too small a thing to request of the king that he alone might be

punished: he rather determined to abolish the whole nation, for

he was naturally an enemy to the Jews, because the nation of

the Amalekites, of which he was, had been destroyed by them.

Accordingly he came to the king, and accused them, saying,

"There is a certain wicked nation, and it is dispersed over all

"the habitable earth that is under thy dominion; a nation se-

"parate from others, unsociable, neither admitting the same

"sort of divine worship that others do, nor using laws like to

"the laws of others: at enmity with thy people, and with all

"men, both in their manners and practices. Now, if thou wilt

"be a benefactor to thy subjects, thou wilt give order to destroy

"them utterly, and not leave the least remains of them, nor

"preserve any of them either for slaves, or for captives." But

that the king might not be damnified by the loss of the tributes

which the Jews paid him, Hainan promised to give him out of

his own estate forty thousand talents whensoever he pleased; and

he said, he would pay this money very willingly, that the king足

dom might be freed from such a misfortune.

6. When Haman had made this petition, the king both for足

gave him the money, and granted him the men, to do what he

would with them. So Haman having gained what he desired,

sent out immediately a decree, as from the king, to all nations,

the contents whereof were these: "Artaxerxes, the great king,

"to the rulers of the hundred twenty and seven provinces, from

"India to Ethiopia, sends this writing: Whereas I have go-

"verned many nations, and obtained the dominions of all the

"habitable earth, according to my desire, and have not been

"obliged to do any thing that is insolent or cruel to my subjects

"by such my power, but have showed myself mild and gentle,

"by taking care of their peace and good order, and have sought

* Whether this adoration required of Mordecai to Haman were by him deemed,  
too like the adoration due only to God, as Josehpus seems here to think, as
well

as the Septuagint interpreters also, by their translation of Esth. siii. 12,
IS, 14.

or whether he thought he ought to pay no sort of adoration to an Amalekite,

which nation had been such great sinners as to have been universally devoted
to de足

struction by God himself, Exocl. xvii. 14, 15, 16. 2 Sam. xv. 18. or whether
botf;

causes concurred, cannot now. I doubt, be certainlv determined.

