336 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XV.

"were in danger of losing their own government of themselves,

"and of being slaves to Cleopatra, what others were they that

"freed them from that fear? For it was the friendship I had

"with Antony, and the kind disposition he was in towards us

"that hath been the occasion that even these Arabians have not

"been utterly undone, Antony being unwilling to undertake any

"thing which might be suspected by us of unkindness: but

"when he had a mind to bestow some parts of each of our

"dominions on Cleopatra, I also managed that matter so, that

"by giving him presents of my own, I might obtain a security

"to both nations, while I undertook myself to answer for the

"money, and gave him two hundred talents, and became surety

"for those two hundred more which were imposed upon the land

"that was subject to this tribute : and this they have defrauded us

"of, although it was not reasonable that Jews should pay tribute

"to any man living, or allow part of their land to be taxable;

"but although that was to be, yet ought we not to pay tribute

"for these Arabians, whom we have ourselves preserved; nor

"is it fit that they, who have professed, and that with great in-

"tegrity and sense of our kindness, that it is by our means that

"they keep their principality, should injure us, and deprive us

"of what is our due, and this while we have been still not their

"enemies but their friends. And whereas observation of co-

"venants takes place among the bitterest enemies, but among

"friends is absolutely necessary, this is not observed among

"these men, who think gain to be the best of all things, let it be

"by any means whatsoever, and that injustice is no harm, if

"they may but get money by it; is it therefore a questipn with

"you, Whether the unjust are to be punished or not? When

"God himself hath declared his mind that so it ought to be, and

"hath commanded us that we ever should hate injuries and injus-

"tice, which is not only just but necessary in wars between se-

"veral nations; for these Arabians have done what both the

"Greeks and Barbarians own to be an instance of the grossest

"wickedness, with regard to our ambassadors, which they have

"beheaded, while the Greeks declare that such ambassadors

"are * sacred and inviolable. And for ourselves we have learn-

"ed from God the most excellent of our doctrines, and the most

"holy part of our law by angels, or ambassadors; for this name

"brings God to the knowledge of mankind, and is sufficient to

"reconcile enemies one to another. What wickedness then can

"be greater than the slaughter of ambassadors, who come to

* Herod says here, that as ambassadors were sacred, when they carried messages  
to others, so did the laws of the Jews derive a sacred authority by being
delivered

from God, by angels [or divine ambassadors] which is St. Paul's expression,
about

the same laws, Gal. iii. 19. Heb. ii. 2.

