Chap. X. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 369

fear of him, yielded to what he required of them, but for such

as were of a more open and generous disposition, and had indig足

nation at the force he used to them, he by one means or other

made away with them. He endeavoured also to persuade Pollio

the Pharisee, and Sameas, and the greatest part of their scholars,

to take the oath; but these would neither submit so to do, nor

were they punished together with the rest, out of the reve足

rence he bore to Pollio. The Essens also, as we call a sect of

ours, were excused from this imposition. These men live the

same kind of life as do those whom the Greeks call Pythagoreans,

concerning whom I shall discourse more fully elsewhere. How足

ever, it is but fit to set down here the reasons wherefore Herod

had these Essens in such honour, and thought higher of them

than their mortal nature required; nor will this account be

unsuitable to the nature of this history, as it will show the

opinion men had of these Essens.

Now there was one of these Essens, whose name was Ma-

nnhem, who had this testimony, that he not only conducted his

life after an excellent manner, but had the foreknowledge of fu足

ture events given him by God also. This man once saw Herod

when he was a child, and going to school, and saluted him as

king of the Jews; but he thinking that either he did not know

him, or that he was in jest, put him in mind that he was

but a private man, but Manahem smiled to himself, and clapped

him on his backside with his hand, and said, " However that be

"thou wilt be king, and wilt begin thy reign happily, for God

"finds thee worthy of it. And do thou remember the blows

"that Manahem hath given thee, as being a signal of the change

"of thy fortune. And truly this will be the reasoning for thee,

"that thou love justice [towards men,] and piety towards God,

"and clemency towards thy citizens; yet do I know how thy

"whole conduct will be, that thou wilt not be such a one, for

"thou wilt excel all men in happiness, and obtain an everlasting

"reputation, but wilt forget piety and righteousness; and these

"crimes will not be concealed from God, at the conclusion of

"thy life, when thou wilt find that he will be mindful of them,

"and punish thee for them." Now at that time Herod did not

at all attend to what Manahem said, as having no hopes of such

advancement; but a little afterward, when he was so fortunate

as to be advanced to the dignity of king, and was in the height

of his dominion, he sent for Manahem, and asked him, How long

he should reign? Manahem did not tell him the full length of

his reign, wherefore, upon that silence of his, he asked him,

farther, Whether he should reign ten years or not? he replied,

"Yes, twenty, nay, thirty years," but did not assign the just

determinate limit of his reign. Herod was satisfied with these

