278 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIV

would ratify that league of friendship and mutual alliance which

was between them. And it seems to me to be necessary here to

give an account of all the honours that the Romans and their

emperors paid to our nation, and of the leagues of mutual as­

sistance they have made with it, that all the rest of mankind

may know what regard the kings of Asia and Europe have had

to us, and that they have been abundantly satisfied of our courage

and fidelity; for, whereas many will not believe what hath been

written about us by the Persians and Macedonians, because

those writings are not every where to be met with, nor do lie

in public places, but among us ourselves, and certain other

barbarous nations, while there is no contradiction to be made

against the decrees of the Romans, for they are laid up in the

public places of the cities, and are extant still in the capitol,

and engraven upon pillars of brass; nay, besides this, Julius Ca>

sar made a pillar of brass for the Jews at Alexandria, and declar­

ed publicly that they were citizens of Alexandria. Out of

these evidences will I demonstrate what I say; and will now

set down the decrees made both by the senate, and by Julius

Caesar, which relate to Hyrcanus, and to our nation.

2. "Caius Julius Caesar, imperator and high priest, and dicta-

"tor the second time, to the magistrates, senate, and people of

"Sidon, sendeth greeting: if you be in health, it is well. I also

"and the army are well. I have sent you a copy of that de-

"cree, registered on the tables, which concerns Hyrcanus, the

"son of Alexander, the high priest and ethnarch of the Jews,

"that it may be laid up among the public records; and I will

"that it be openly proposed in a table of brass, both in Greek,

"and in Latin: It is as follows: I Julius Caesar, imperator the

"second time, and high priest, have made this decree, with the

"approbation of the senate: Whereas Hyrcanus, the son of

"Alexander the Jew, hath demonstrated his fidelity and dili-

"gence about our affairs, and this both now and in former times,

"both in peace and in war, as many of our generals have borne

"witness, and came to our assistance in the last * Alexandrian

'war with fifteen hundred soldiers; and when he was sent by me

"to Mithridates, showed himself superior in valour to all the

"rest of that army: for these reasons I will, that Hyrcanus the

'son of Alexander, and his children, be ethnarchs of the Jews,

'and have the high priesthood of the Jews for ever, according

"to the customs of their forefathers, and that he and his sons

"be our confederates, and that besides this, every one of them

"be reckoned among our particular friends. I also ordain,

* That Hyrcanus was himself in Egypt, along with Antipater, at this time, to  
whom accordingly the bold and prudent actions of his deputy Antipater are here

ascribed, as this decree of Julius Czesar supposes, we are farther assured by
the testi­

mony of Strabo, already produced by Joseptms, chap. viii. sect. 2,

