36 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book IX.

by length of time, or by the carelessness of the kings, his prede­

cessors, as well as all that part which had been thrown down by

the king of Israel, when he took his father Amaziah prisoner,

and entered with him into the city. Moreover, he built a great

many towers, of one hundred and fifty cubits high, and built

walled towns in desert places, and put garrisons into them, and

dug many channels for conveyance of water. He had also many

beasts for labour, and an immense number of cattle; for his

country was fit for pasturage. He was also given to husbandry,

and took care to cultivate the ground, and planted it with all

sorts of plants, and sowed it with all sorts of seeds. He had also

about him an army composed of chosen men, in number three

hundred and seventy thousand, who were governed by general

officers and captains of thousands, who were men of valour, and

of unconquerable strength, in number two thousand. He also

divided his whole army into bands, and armed them, giving

every one a sword, with brazen bucklers and breast-plates, with

bows and slings; and besides these, he made for them many en­

gines of war, for besieging of cities, such as cast stones and darts,

with grapplers, and other instruments of that sort.

4. While Uzziah was in this state, and making preparation

[for futurity], he was corrupted in his mind by pride, and be­

came insolent, and this on account of that abundance which he

had of things that will soon perish, and despised that power

which is of eternal duration (which consisted in piety towards

God, and in the observation of his laws), so he fell by occasion

of the good success of his affairs, and was carried headlong into

those sins of his fathers which the splendour of that prosperity

he enjoyed, and the glorious actions he had done, led him into,

while he was not able to govern himself well about them. Ac­

cordingly, when a remarkable day was come, and a general festi­

val was to be celebrated, he put on the holy garment, and went

into the temple to offer incense to God upon the golden altar,

which he was prohibited to do by Azariah the high priest, who

had fourscore priests with him, and who told him that it was

not lawful for him to offer sacrifice, and that " none besides the

"posterity of Aaron were permitted so to do." And when they |

cried out, that he must go out of the temple, and not transgress -

against God, he was wroth at them, and threatened to kill them,'

unless they would hold their peace. In the mean time a great

* earthquake shook the ground, and a rent was made in the tem-

* This account of an earthquake at Jerusalem at the very same time when  
Uzziab usurped the priest's office, and went into the sanctuary to burn
incense,

and of ihc consequences of that earthquake, is entirely wanting in our other

copies, though it be exceeding like to a prophecy of Jeremiah's now in Zech.

xiv. 5. in which prophecy, mention is made of " fleeing from that earthquake,

