270 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIV.

sand of the Jews, armed men: He had also taken care the princi­

pal men of the Arabians should come to his assistance; and on

his account it was that all the Syrians assisted him also, as

not willing to appear behind hand in their alacrity for Caesar, viz.

Jamblicus the ruler, and Ptolemy his son, and Thoiomy the son

of Sohemus, who dwelt at mount Libanus, and almost all the

cities. So Mithridates marched out of Syria, and came to Pe-

lusium; and when its inhabitants would not admit him, he be­

sieged the city. Now Antipater signalized himself here, and was

the first who plucked down a part of the wall, and so opened a

way to the rest, whereby they might enter the city, and by this

means Pelusium was taken: but it happened that the Egyp­

tian Jews, who dwelt in the country called Onion, would not let

Antipater and Mithridates, with their soldiers, pass to Caesar, but

Antipater persuaded them to come over to their party, because

he was of the same people with them, and that chiefly by show­

ing them the epistles of Hyrcanus the high priest, wherein he

exhorted them to cultivate friendship with Caesar, and to sup­

ply his army with money, and all sorts of provisions which they

wanted: and accordingly, when they saw Antipater and the high

priest of the same sentiments, they did as they were desired.

And when the Jews about Memphis heard that these Jews were

come over to Caesar, they also invited Mithridates to come to

them; so he came and received them also into his army.

2. And when Mithridates had gone over all Delta, as the

place is called, he came to a pitched battle with the enemy, near

the place called the Jewish camp. Now Mithridates had the

right wing, and Antipater the left; and when it came to a fight

that wing where Mithridates was gave way, and was likely to

suffer extremely, unless Antipater had come running to him

with his own soldiers along the shore, when he had already

beaten the enemy that opposed him: so he delivered Mithri­

dates, and put those Egyptians, who had been too hard for him, to

flight. He also took their camp, and continued in the pursuit

of them. He also recalled Mithridates, who had been worsted,

and was retired a great way off; of whose soldiers eight hundred

fell, but of Antipater's fifty. So Mithridates sent an account of

this battle to Caesar, and openly declared, that Antipater was the

author of his victory, and of his own preservation, insomuch

that Caesar commended Antipater then, and made use-of him all

the rest of that war in the most hazardous undertakings, he hap­

pened also to be wounded in one of those engagements.

3. However, when Caesar, after some time, had finished that

war, and was sailed away for Syria, he honoured Antipater

greatly, and confirmed Hyrcanus in the high priesthood; and

bestowed on Antipater the privilege of a citizen of Rome, and*

