250 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIII.

as may well be supposed, terrified the queen and the nation. Ac足

cordingly they sent him many and very valuable presents; as

also ambassadors, and that as he was besieging Ptolemais; for

Selene the queen, the same that was also called Cleopatra, ruled

then over Syria, who had persuaded the inhabitants to exclude

Tigranes. So the Jewish ambassadors interceded with him, and

entreated him that he would determine nothing that was severe

about their queen or nation. He commended them for the re足

spects they paid him at so great a distance: and gave them good

hopes of his favour. But as soon as Ptolemais was taken, news

came to Tigranes that Lucullus, in his pursuit of Mithridates,

could not light upon him, who was fled into Tberia, but was

laying waste Armenia and besieging its cities. Now, when

Tigranes knew this he returned home.

5. After this, when the queen was fallen into a dangerous

distemper, Aristobulus resolved to attempt the seizing of the

government; so he stole away secretly by night, with only one of

his servants, and went to the fortresses wherein his friends that

were such from the days of his father, were settled: for as he

had been a great while displeased at his mother's conduct, so he

was now much more afraid, lest upon her death, their whole

family should be under the power of the Pharisees, for he saw

the inability of his brother, who was to succeed in the govern足

ment : nor was any one conscious of what he was doing but only

his wife, whom he left at Jerusalem with their children. He

first of all came to Agaba, where was Galestes, one of the potent

men before mentioned, and was received by him. When it was

day the queen perceived that Aristobulus was fled; and for

some time she supposed that his departure was not in order to

make any innovation, but when messengers came one after

another with the news that he had secured the first place, the

second place, and all the places, for as soon as one had begun

they all submitted to his disposal, then it was that the queen and

the nation were in the greatest disorder, for they were aware

that it would not be long ere Aristobulus would be able to settle

himself firmly in the government. What they were principally

afraid of was this, that he would inflict punishment upon them

for the mad treatment his house had had from them: So they

resolved to take his wife and children into custody, and keep

them in the * fortress that was over the temple. Now there

was a mighty conflux of people that came to Aristobulus from

* This fortress, castle, citadel, or tower, whither the wife and children of Aristo足  
bulus were now sent, and which overlooked the temple, could be no other than
what

Hyrcanus I. built, Antiq. B. XVIII. ch. iv. sect. 3. vol. III. and Herod the
Great

rebuilt, and called the Tower ofAntonia, Antiq. B. XV. ch. xi. sect. 5. vol.
II.

