108 ANTIQUITIES or THE JEWS'. Book XI-

"Persia to have compassion on them, that he would also for-

"give them their sins they had now committed, which, though

"they deserved death, yet it was agreeable to the mercy of

"God, to remit even to these the punishment due to them."

4. After Esdras had said this, he left off praying; and when

all those that came to him with their wives and children were

under lamentation, one whose name was Jechonias a principal

man in Jerusalem, came to him, and said, that they had sinned.

in marrying strange wives; and he persuaded him to adjure

them all to cast those wives out, and the children born of therav

and that those should be punished who would not obey the law.

So Esdras hearkened to this advice, and made the heads of the

priests, and of the Levites, and of the Israelites, swear that they

would put away those wives and children; according to the ad­

vice of Jechonias. And when he had received their oaths, he

went in haste out of the temple into the chamber of Johanan, the

son of Eliasib, and as he had hitherto tasted nothing at all for

grief, so he abode there that day. And when proclamation was

made, that all those of the captivity should gather themselves to­

gether to Jerusalem, and those that did not meet there in two or

three days should be banished from the multitude, and that their

substance should be appropriated to the uses of the temple, ac­

cording to the sentence of the elders, those that were of the tribes

of Judah and Benjamin came together in three days, viz. on the

twentieth day of the ninth month, which according to the He­

brews, is called Tebeth, and according to the Macedonians, Apel-

leus. Now, as they were sitting in the upper room of the tem­

ple, where the elders also were present, but were uneasy because

of the cold, Esdras stood up, and accused them, and told them that

they had sinned in marrying wives that were not of their own

nation; but that now they would do a thing both pleasing to

God, and advantageous to themselves, if they would put those

'wives away. Accordingly they all cried out, that " they would

"do so. That however the multitude was great, and that the

"season of the year was winter, and that this work would re-

"quire more than one or two days. Let their rulers, therefore,

"[said they], and those that have married strange wives, come

"hither at a proper time, while the elders of every place, that

"are in common to estimate the number of those that have thus

"married, are to be there also." Accordingly, this was resolv­

ed on by them, and they began the inquiry after those that had

married strange wives on the first day of the next month, and

continued the inquiry to the first day of the tenth month, and

found a great many of the posterity of Jeshua the high priest,

and of the priests, and Levites, and Israelites, who had * a greater

* This procedure of Ezra, and of the best part of the Jewish nation, after their  
return from the Babylonish captivity, of reducing the Jewish marriages once
for ail.

