272 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIV.

follows: "Lucius Valerius, the son of Lucius the pretor refer-

"red this to the senate, upon the ides of December, in the tem-

"pie of Concord. There were present at the writing of this de-

"cree Lucius Coponius, the son of Lucius of the Colline tribe,

"and Pepirius of the Quirine tribe, concerning the affairs

"which Alexander the son of Jason, and Numenius the son

"of Antiochus, and Alexander the son of Dositheus, ambas-

"sadors of the Jews, good and worthy men, proposed, who

"came to renew that league of good-will and friendship with

"the Romans which was in being before. They also brought

"a shield of gold, as a mark of confederacy, valued at fifty

"thousand pieces of gold; and desired that letters might be

"given them, directed both to the free cities and to the kings,

"that their country and their havens might be at peace, and

"that no one among them might receive any injury. It there-

"fore pleased [the senate] to make a league of friendship and

"good-will with them, and to bestow on them whatsoever they

"stood in need of, and to accept of the shield which was brought

"by them. This was done in the ninth year of Hyrcanus the

"high priest and ethnarch, in the month Panemus." Hyrcan­

us also received honours from the people of Athens, as having

been useful to them on many occasions. And when they wrote

to him they sent him this decree, as it here follows; "Under

"the Prutaneia and priesthood of Dionysius, the son of Escu-

"lapius, on the fifth day of the latter part of the month Pane-

"mus, this decree of the Athenians was given to their com-

"manders, when Agathocles was archon, and Eucles, the son

"of Menander of Alimusia, was the scribe. In the month Mu-

"nychion, on the eleventh day of the Prutaneia, a council of

"the presidents was held in the theatre. Dorotheus the high

"priest, and the fellow presidents with him, put it to the vote

"of the people. Dionysius the son of Dionysius, gave the

"sentence: Since Hyrcanus, the son of Alexander, the high

"priest and ethnarch of the Jews, continues to bear good-will

"to our people in general, and to every one of our citizens in

"particular, and treats them with all sorts of kindness; and

"when any of the Athenians come to him, either as ambassa-

"dors, or on any occasion of their own, he receives them in an

"' gave order for one thing, and his amanuensis performed another, by
transposing

"decrees that concerned the Hyrcani, and as deluded by the sameness of their

"names, for that belongs to the Jirst high priest of this name, (John
Hyrcanus,)

"which Josephus here ascribes to one that lived later, (Hrycanus the son of
Alex-

"ander Janneus.) However, the decrees which he proposes to set down follows a

"little lower, in the collection of Roman decrees, that concerned the Jews,
and ii

-' that dated when Caesar was consul the fifth time." See chap. 10. sect. 5.

