Chap- II. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 139

ber of the talents paid for the captives being above four hundred

and sixty, and this, because their masters required the [hundred

and] twenty drachmae for the children also, the king having in

effect, commanded, that these should be paid for, when he said

in his decree, that they should receive the forementioned sum

for every slave.

4. Now when this had been done after so magnificent a

manner, according to the king's inclinations, he gave order

to Demetrius to give him in writing his sentiments con­

cerning the transcribing of the Jewish books, for no part of

the administration is done rashly by these kings, but all things

are managed with great circumspection. On which account I

have subjoined a copy of these epistles, and set down the multi­

tude of the vessels sent as gifts [to Jerusalem] and the construc­

tion of every one, that the exactness of the artificer's workman^

ship, as it appeared to those that saw them, and which workman

made every vessel, may be made manifest, and this on account

of the excellency of the vessels themselves. Now the copy of

the epistle was to this purpose; "Demetrius to the great king:

"\Vhen thou, O king, gavest me a charge concerning the col-

"lection of books-that were wanting to fill your library, and

"concerning the care that ought to be taken about such as are

"imperfect, I have used the utmost diligence about those mat-

"ters. And I let you know, that we want the books of the

"Jewish legislation, with some others; for they are written in

"the Hebrew characters, and being in the language of that na-

"tion, are to us unknown. It hath also- happened to them,

"that they have been transcribed more carelessly than they

"ought to have been, because they have not had hitherto royal

"care taken about them. Now it is necessary that thou shouldest

"have accurate copies of them. And indeed this legislation is

"full of hidden wisdom, and entirely blameless, as being the

"legislation of God: For which cause it is, as Hecateus of Ab-

"dera says, that the poets and historians make no mention of

"it, nor of those men who lead their lives according to it, since

"it is a holy law, and ought not to be published by profane

"mouths. If then it please thee, O King, thou mayest write

"to the high priest of the Jews, to send six of the elders out of

"every tribe, and those such as are most skilful of the laws,

"that by their means we may learn the clear and agreeing sense

"of these books; and may obtain an accurate interpretation of

"their contents, and so may have such a collection of these as

"may be suitable to thy desire."

5. When this epistle was sent to the king, he commanded that

an epistle should be drawn up for Eleazar, the Jewish high

priest, concerning these matters; and that they should inform

VOL. II. S 19

