6* ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWB. Book X.

"Medes should put an end to their servitude, and overthrow

*' the Babylonians, and that we shall be dismissed, and return  
*' to this land, and * rebuild the temple and restore Jerusalem."  
When Jeremiah said this, the greater part believed him, but the

rulers, and those that were wicked, despised him, as one disor­

dered in his senses. Now he had resolved to go elsewhere, to

his own country, which was called Anathoth, and was twenty

furlongs distant from Jerusalem; and as he was going, one of the

rulers met him, and seized upon him, and accused him falsely, as

though he were going as a deserter to the Babylonians: but Je­

remiah, said, that he accused him falsely, and added, that he was

only going to his own country, but the other would not believe

him, but seized upon him, and led him away to the rulers, and

laid an accusation against him, under whom he endured all sorts

of torments and tortures, and was reserved to be punished ; and

this was the condition he was in for some time, while he suf­

fered what I have already described unjustly.

4. Now in the ninth year of the reign of Zedekiah, on the

tenth day of the tenth month, the king of Babylon made a se­

cond expedition against Jerusalem, and lay before it eighteen

months, and besieged it with the utmost application. There came

upon them also two of the greatest calamities at the same time

that Jerusalem was besieged, a famine and pestilential distem­

per, and made great havock of them: And though the prophet

Jeremiah was in prison, he did not rest, but cried out, and pro­

claimed aloud, and exhorted the multitude to open their gates,

and admit the king of Babylon, for that if they did so, they should

be preserved, and their whole families, but if they did not so, they

should be destroyed, and he foretold, that if any one stayed in the

city, he should certainly perish by one of these ways, either be

consumed by the famine, or slain by the enemy's sword, but

that if he would fly to the enemy he should escape death: Yet

did not these rulers who heard believe him, even when they

were in the midst of their sore calamities, but they came to the

king, and in their anger, informed him what Jeremiah said, and

accused him, and complained of the prophet as of a madman,

and one that disheartened their minds, and by the denunciation

of miseries, weakened the alacrity of the multitude, who were

otherwise ready to expose themselves to dangers for him, and

for their country, while he, in a way of threatening, warned them

to fly to the enemy, and told them that the city should certainly

be taken, and be utterly destroyed.

* Josephus says here, that Jeremiah prophesied not only of the return of the Jews  
from the Babylonian captivity, and this under the Persians and Medes, as in
our

other copies; but of their rebuilding the temple, and even the city Jerusalem,
which

do not apoear in our copies under his name, we the note on Anti-j. B. XI.
chap. I.

*ect. 3.

