Chap. X. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 33

"fight against the Amalekites, thou growest so proud, as to

"bring dangers upon thyself and upon thy kingdom."

3. When Amaziah had read this letter, he was more eager

upon this expedition, which, I suppose, was by the impulse of

God, that he might be punished for his offence against him. But

as soon as he led out his army against Joash, and they were go­

ing to join battle with him, there came such a fear and conster­

nation upon the army of Amaziah, as God when he is displeas­

ed, sends upon men, anddiscomfitted them, even before they came

to a close fight. Now it happened, that as they were scattered

about by the terror that was upon them, Amaziah was left alone,

and was taken prisoner by the enemy; whereupon Joash threat­

ened to kill him, unless he would persuade the people of Jeru­

salem to open their gates to him, and receive him and his army

into the city. Accordingly, Amaziah was so distressed, and in

such fear of his life, that he made his enemy to be received into

the city. So Joash overthrew a part of the wall, of the length

of four hundred cubits, and drove his chariot through the breach

into Jerusalem, and led Amaziah captive along with him: by

which means he became master of Jerusalem, and took away the

treasures of God, and carried off all the gold and silver that was

in the king's palace, and then freed the king from captivity, and

returned to Samaria. Now these things happened to the people

of Jerusalem in the fourteenth year of the reign of Amaziah,

who after this had a conspiracy made against him by his friends,

and fled to the city Lachish, and was there slain by the conspi­

rators, who sent men thither to kill him. So they took up his

dead body, and carried it to Jerusalem, and made a royal funeral

for him. This was the end of the life of Amaziah, because of

his innovations in religion, and his contempt of God, when he

had lived fifty-four years, and had reigned twenty-nine. He

was succeeded by his son, whose name was Uzziah.

CHAP. X.

Concerning Jeroboam, king of Israel, and Jonah the prophet; and

hovo, after the death of Jeroboam, his son Zechariah took the

government. How Uzziah, king of Jerusalem, subdued the

nations, that were round about him,- and what befell him when he

attempted to offer incense to God.

f 1. IN the fifteenth year of the reign of Amaziah, Jero­

boam the son of Joash, reigned over Israel and Samaria, forty

years. The king was guilty of * contumely against God, and

* What I have above noted concerning Jehoash, seems to me to have been  
'me also concerning his son Jeroboam 11. viz. that although he began wickcdlv,

