S4G ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XV.

2. And now Herod sailed home with joy, at the unexpected

good success he had had: and went first of all, as was proper, to

this his wife, and told her, and her only, the good news, as pre­

ferring her before the rest, on account of his fondness for her,

and the intimacy there had been between them, and saluted her;

but so it happened, that as he told her of the good success he had

had, she was so far from rejoicing at it, that she rather was sorry

for it; nor was she able to conceal her resentments, but, de­

pending on her dignity, and the nobility of her birth, in return

for his salutations, she gave a groan, and declared evidently that

she rather grieved than rejoiced at his success, and this till He­

rod was disturbed at her, as affording him not only marks of

her suspicion, but evident signs of her dissatisfaction. This much

troubled him, to see that this surprising hatred of his wife to

him was not concealed, but open; and he took this so ill, and yet

was so unable to bear it, on account of the fondness he had for her,

that he could not long continue in any one mind, but sometimes

was angry at her, and sometimes reconciled himself to her, but

by always changing one passion for another, he was still in great

uncertainty, and thus was he entangled between hatred and love,

and was frequently disposed to inflict punishment on her for her

insolence towards him, but being deeply in love with her in his

soul, he was not able to get quit of this-woman. In short as he

would gladly have her punished, so was he afraid lest ere he were

aware, he should, by putting her to death, bring a heavier pun­

ishment upon himself at the same time.

3. When Herod's sister and mother perceived that he was in

this temper with regard to Mariamne, they thought they had

now got an excellent opportunity to exercise their hatred against

her, and provoked Herod to wrath by telling him such long sto­

ries and calumnies about her, as might at once excite his hatred

and his jealousy. Now, though he willingly enough heard

their words, yet had not he courage enough to do any thing

to her, as if he believed them, but still he became worse

and worse disposed to her, and these ill passions were more and

more inflamed on both sides, while she did not hide her disposi­

tion towards him, and he turned his love to her into wrath

against her. But when he was just going to put this matter past

all remedy, he heard the news that Caesar was the victor in the

war, and that Antony and Cleopatra were both dead, and that

he had conquered Egypt, whereupon he made haste to go to meet

Caesar, and left the affairs of his family in their present state.

However Mariamne recommended Sohemus to him, as he was

setting out on his journey, and professed that she owed him

thanks for the care he had taken of her, and asked of the king

for him a place in the government; upon which an honourable

