ANTigurriEs OF THE JEWS. Book XV.

7. By this speech, and by his behaviour, which showed Cae­

sar the frankness of his mind, he greatly gained upon him, who

was himself of a generous and magnificent temper, insomuch

that those very actions, which were the foundation of the accu­

sation against him, procured him Caesar's good-will. Accord­

ingly, he restored him his diadem again; and encouraged him

to exhibit himself as great a friend to himself as he had been to

Antony, and then had him in great esteem. Moreover, he ad­

ded this, that Quintius Didius had written to him, that Herod

had very readily assisted him in the affair of the gladiators. So

when he had obtained such a kind reception, and had, bevond all

his hopes, procured his crown to be more entirely and firmly

settled upon him than ever by Caesar's donation, as well as by

that decree of the Romans, which Caesar took care to procure

for his greater security, he conducted Caesar on his way to

Egypt, and made presents even beyond his ability, to both him

and his friends, and in general behaved himself with great mag­

nanimity. He also desired that Caesar would not put to death

one Alexander, who had been a companion of Antony's; but

Caesar had sworn to put him to death, and so he could not ob­

tain that his petition: And now he returned to Judea again

with greater honour and assurance than ever, and affrighted those

that had expectations to the contrary, as still acquiring from

his very dangers greater splendour than before, by the favour oi

God to him. So he prepared for the reception of Cassar, as he

was going out of Syria to invade Egypt; and when he came, he

entertained him at Ptolemais with all royal magnificence. He

also bestowed presents on the army, and brought them provi­

sions in abundance. He also proved to be one of Caesar's most

cordial friends, and put the army in array, and rode along with

Caesar, and had a hundred and fifty men, well appointed in all

respects, after a rich and sumptuous manner, for the better re­

ception of him and his friends. He also provided them with

what they should want, as they passed over the dry desert,

insomuch that they lacked neither wine nor water, which last

the soldiers stood in the greatest need of, and besides, he pre­

sented Caesar with eight hundred talents, and procured to him­

self the good-will of them all, because he was assisting to them in

a much greater and more splendid degree than the kingdom he

had obtained could afford, by which means he more and more de­

monstrated to Caesar the thinness of his friendship, and his readi­

ness to assist him; and what was of the greatest advantage to

him was this, that his liberality came at a seasonable time also:

And when they returned again out of Egypt, his assistances were

no way inferior to the good offices he had formerly done them.

