Chap. V. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 395

oeived [from Herod,] he entertained them all in the public inns,

and at public tables, nnd with perpetual feasts, this solemnity

having in the day-time the diversions of the fights, and in the

night-time such merry meetings as cost vast sums of money,

and publicly demonstrated the generosity of his soul, fof in ail

his undertakings he was ambitious to exhibit what exceeded

whatsoever had been done before of the same kind. And it is

related that Caesar and Agrippa often said, That " the dominions

"of Herod were too little for the greatness of his soul, for thai

"he deserved to have both all the kingdom of Syria, and that

"of Egypt also."

2. After this solemnity and these festivals were over, Herod

erected another city in the plain called Capharsaba, where he

chose out a fit place, both for plenty of water, and goodness of

soil, and proper for the production of what was there planted,

where a river encompassed the city itself, and a grove of the

best trees for magnitude was round nbflut it: this he named An-

tipatris, from his father Antipater. He also built upon another

spot of ground above Jericho, of the same name with his mo­

ther, a place of great security, and very pleasant for habitation,

and called it Cyprus. He also dedicated the finest monuments

to his brother Phasaelus, on account of the great natural affec­

tion there had been between them, by erecting a tower in the

city itself, not less than the tower of Pharos, which he named

Phasaelus, which was at once a part of the strong defences of the

city and a memorial for him that was deceased, because it bore

his name. He also built a city of the same name in the valley

of Jericho, as you go from it northward, whereby he rendered

the neighbouring country more fruitful, by the cultivation its

inhabitants introduced; and this also he called Phasaelus.

3. But as for his other benefits, it is impossible to reckon them

up, those which he bestowed on cities, both in Syria and in

Greece, and in all the places he came to in his voyages; for he

seems to have conferred, and that after a most plentiful manner,

what would minister to many necessities, and the building of

public works, and gave them the money that was necessary to

such works as wanted it, to support them upon the failure of

their other revenues: but, what was the greatest and most il­

lustrious of all his works, he erected Apollo's temple at Rhodes,

at his own expenses, and gave them a great number of talents of

silver for the repair of their fleet. He also built the greatest

part of the public edifices for the inhabitants of * Nicopolis,

* Dr. Hudson here gives us the words of Suetonius concerning this Nieopolis,  
when Agustus rebuilt it: "And that the memory of the victory at Actium might

"be celebrated the more afterward, he built NicopolUat Actium, and appointed
pub-

"lie shows to be ilmrc exhibited every tifth year, in August." Sect. 18.

VOL. iI. 3D 27

