29'2 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIV.

up in the tower, and there, on certain conditions, dismissed him.

Phasaelus also complained of Hyrcanus, that although he had

received a great many benefits from them; yet did he support

their enemies; for Malichus' brother made many places to re­

volt, and kept garrisons in them, and particularly Masada, the

strongest fortress of them all. In the meantime Herod was re­

covered of his disease, and came and took from Felix all the

places he had gotten; and, upon certain conditions, dismissed

him also.

CHAP. XII.

Herod ejects Antigonus, the son of Aristolndus, out of Judea, and

gains the friendship of Antony, who was now come into Syria,

by sending him much money; on which account he would not

admit of those that would have accused Herod ,- and what it

was that Antony wrote to the Tyrians in behalf of the Jews.

§ 1. JN ow * Ptolemy the son of Menneus, brought back

into Judea, Antigonus the son of Aristobulus, who had already

raised an army, and had, by money, made Fabius to be his friend,

and this because he was of kin to him. Marion also gave him

assistance. He-had been left by Cassius to tyrannize over Tyre,

for this Cassius was a man that seized on Syria, and then kept it

under in the way of a tyrant. Marion also marched into Ga­

lilee, which lay in his neighbourhood, and took three of his for­

tresses, and put garrisons into them to keep them. But when

Herod came, he took all from him ; but the Tyrian garrison he

dismissed in a very civil manner; nay, to some of the soldiers he

made presents out of the good-will he bore to that city. When

he had dispatched these affairs, and was gone to meet Antigonus,

he joined battle with him, and beat him, and drove him out of

Judea presently, when he was just come into its borders. But

when he was come to Jerusalem, Hyrcanus and the people put

garlands about his head; for he had already contracted an af­

finity with the family of Hyrcanus by having espoused a descen-

dantof his, andfor that reason Herod took the greater care of him,

* In this and the following chapters, the reader will easily remark, how truly Gro-  
novius observes, in his notes on the Roman decrees in favour of the Jews, that
their

rights and privileges were commonly purchased of the Romans with money. Many

examples of this sort, both as to the Romans, and others in authority, will
occur in

our Josephus, both now and hereafter, and need not be taken particular notice
of on

the several occasions in these notes. Accordingly, the chief captain confesses
to

St. Paul, that " with a great sum be had obtained his freedom," Act* xxii. 28.
a>

had Paul's ancestors, very probably, purchased the like freedom for their
family by

money, as the same author justly concludes also.

