HO ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XI.

people, he died an old man, and was buried in a magnificent

manner at Jerusalem. About the same time it happened also,

that Joachim the high priest died; and his son Eliasib succeed­

ed in the high priesthood.

6. Now there was one of those Jews that had been carried cap­

tive, who was cup-bearer to king Xerxes ; his name was Nehe-

miah. As this man was walking before Susa, the metropolis of

the Persians, he heard some strangers that were entering the city

after a long journey, speaking to another in the Hebrew tongue,

so he went to them and asked them whence they came? And

when their answer was, that they came from Judea, he began to

inquire of them again in what state the multitude was? and in

what condition Jerusalem was; nnd when they replied, that they

were in a * bad state, for that their walls were thrown down to

the ground, and that the neighbouring nations did a great deal o.

mischief to the Jews, while in the day time they overran the

country, and pillaged it, and in the night did them mischief, in­

somuch that not a few were led away captive out of the country,

and out of Jerusalem itself, and that the roads were in the day

time found full of dead men. Hereupon Nehemiah shed tears,

out of commiseration for the calamities of his countrymen: and

looking up to heaven he said, " How long, O Lord, wilt thou

"overlook our nation, while it suffers so great miseries, and while

"we are made the prey and spoil of all men." And while he stayed

at the gate and lamented thus, one told him that the king was go­

ing to sit down to supper; so he made haste, and went as he was,

without washing himself, to minister to the king in his office o.j

cup-bearer: But as the king was very pleasant after supper, and

more cheerful than usual, he cast his eyes on Nehemiah, and

seeing him look sad, he asked him, why he was sad? Where­

upon he prayed to God to give him favour, and afford him the

power of persuading by his words, and said, "How can I, O

"king, appear otherwise than thus, and not be in trouble, while

"I hear that the walls of Jerusalem, the city where are the

"sepulchres of my fathers, are thrown down to the ground, and

"that its gates are consumed by fire; but do thou grant me the

"favour to go and build its wall, and to finish the building of

"the temple." Accordingly the king gave him a signal, that

he freely granted him what he asked; and told him that he

should carry an epistle to the governors, that they might pay

him due honour, and afford him whatsoever assistance he

* This miserable condition of the Jews, and their capital, must have been after  
the death of Ezra, their former governor, and before Nehemiah came with his
com­

mission to build the walls of Jerusalem. Nor is that at all disagreeable to
these his­

tories in Josephus, since Ezra came on the 7th, and Nehemiah not till the 25tb
ot

Xerxes, at the interval of 18 years.

