188 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS Book XII.

don, and Simon his brother was general of the army. And this

was the first league that the Romans made with the Jews, and

was managed after this manner.

CHAP. XI .

That Bacchides was again sent out agaqist Judas ,' and how

Judas Jell as he was courageously Jighting.

§ 1. XJUT when Demetrius was informed of the death of Ni-

canor, and of the destruction of the army that was with him,

he sent Bacchides again with an army into Judea, who marched

out of Antioch, and came into Judea, and pitched his camp at

Arbela, a city of Galilee, and having besieged and taken those

that were there in caves, (for many of the people fled into such

places,) he removed, and made all the haste he could to Jerusa­

lem. And when he had learned that Judas pitched his camp

at a certain village whose name was Bethzetho, he led his army

against him: they were twenty thousand footmen; and two

thousand horsemen. Now Judas had no more soldiers than * one

thousand. When these saw the multitude of Bacchides' men

they were afraid, and left their camp, and fled all away, excepting

eight hundred. Now when Judas was deserted by his own sol­

diers, and the enemy pressed upon him, and gave him no time to

§ather his army together, he was disposed to fight with Bacchi-

es' army, though he had but eight hundred men with him; so

he exhorted these men to undergo the danger courageously, and

encouraged them to attack the enemy. And when they said they

were not a body sufficient to fight so great an army, and advised

that they should retire now, and save themselves, and that when

he had gathered his own men together, then he should fall upon

the enemy afterwards, his answer was this: "Let not the sun

"ever see such a thing that I should show my back to the ene-

"my; and although this be the time that will bring me to my

"end, and I must die in this battle, I will rather stand to it cou-

"rageously, and bear whatsoever comes upon me, than by now

"running away, bring reproach upon my former great actions,

'; or tarnish their glory." This was the speech he made to those

that remained with him, whereby he encouraged them to attack

the enemy.

2. But Bacchides drew his army out of their camp, and put

* That this copy of Josephus, as he wrote it, had here not 100O but 3000 with  
1 Maccab. ix. 5. is very plain, because though the main part ran away at first
even

in Josephus, as welt as in 1 Maccab. ix. 6. yet, as there, so here 8OO are
said to

have remained with Judas, which would be absurd, if the whole number had been

no mote than 1000.

