Chap. VIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 133

forefathers, and live according to them, he was willing to take

them with him, many were ready to accompany him in his wars.

6. So when Alexander had thus settled matters at Jerusalem,

he led his army into the neighbouring cities; and when all the

inhabitants, to whom he came, received him with great kindness,

the Samaritans, who had then Shechem for their metropolis (a

city situate at mount Gerizzim, and inhabited by apostates of

the Jewish nation,) seeing that Alexander had so greatly honour­

ed the Jews, determined to profess themselves Jews, for such

is the disposition of the Samaritans, as we have already else­

where declared, that when the Jews are in adversity they deny

that they are of kin to them, and then they confess the truth;

but when they perceive that some good fortune hath befallen

them, they immediately pretend to have communion with them,

saying, that they belong to them, and derive their genealogy

from the posterity of Joseph, Ephraim, and Manasseh. Accord­

ingly, they made their address to the king with splendour, and

showed great alacrity in meeting him at a little distance from Je­

rusalem. And when Alexander had commanded them, the She-

chemites approached to him, taking with them the troops that

Sanballat had sent him, and they desired that he would come

to their city, and do honour to their temple also. To whom he

promised, that when he returned he would come to them. And

when they petitioned that he would remit the tribute of the

seventh year to them, because they did not sow thereon, he asked

who they were that made such a petition, and when they said

that they were Hebrews, but had the name of Sidonians, living

at Shechem; he asked them again, whether they were Jews, and

when they said they were not Jews, "It was to the Jews, said

"he, that I granted that privilege; however, when I return,

"and am thoroughly informed by you of this matter, I will do

"what I shall think proper." And in this manner he took

leave of the Shechemites ; but ordered that the troops of San­

ballat should follow him into Egypt, because there he designed

to give them lands, which he did a little after in Thebais, when

he ordered them to guard that country.

7. Now when Alexander was dead, the government was part­

ed among his successors, but the temple upon mount Gerizzim

remained. And if any one were accused by those of Jerusalem,

of having eaten things * common, or of having broken the Sab­

bath, or of any other crime of the like nature, he fled away to

the Shechemites, and said that he was accused unjustly. About

this time it was that Jaddua the high priest died; and Onias his

son took the high priesthood. This was the state of the affairs

of the people of Jerusalem at this time. -

* Here Josephus uses the very word K OINOPHAGIA, eating things common, fat  
tnting things unclean; as does our New Testament, Acts x. .14, 15, 28. xi. 8,
!>i

Romans xiv. 24.

