Chap. II. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 193

him, and besides took his Jewish auxiliaries, and came against

Jonathan, and made an assault upon his fortifications, and be­

sieged him many days; but Jonathan did not abate of his cour­

age at the zeal Bacchides used in the siege, but courageously

opposed him: And while he left his brother Simon in the city,

to fight with Bacchides, he went privately out himself into the

country, and got a great body of men together of his own party,

and fell upon Bacchides' camp in the night time, and destroyed

a great many of them. His brother Simon knew also of this

his falling upon them, because he perceived that the enemies

were slain by him, so he sallied out upon them, and burnt the

engines which the Macedonians used, and made a great slaugh­

ter of them. And when Bacchides saw himself encompassed

with enemies, and some of them before, and some behind him,

he fell into despair and trouble of mind, as confounded at the

unexpected ill success of this siege. However, he vented his

displeasure at these misfortunes upon those deserters who sent

for him from the king, as having deluded him. So he had a

mind to finish this siege after a decent manner, if it were possi­

ble for him so to do, and then to return home.

6. When Jonathan understood these his intentions, he sent am­

bassadors to him, about a league of friendship and mutual assist­

ance, and that they might restore those they had taken captive

on both sides. So Bacchides thought this a pretty decent way

of retiring home, and made a league of friendship with Jona­

than, when they sware that they would not any more make war

one against another. Accordingly, he restored the captives, and

took his own men with him, and returned to the king of An-

tioch: and after this his departure, he never came into Judea

again. Then did Jonathan take the opportunity of this quiet

state of things, and went and lived in the city Michmash; and

there governed the multitude, and punished the wicked and

ungodly, and by that means pu rged the nation of them.

CHAP. II.

How Alexander [Bala] in his war 'with Demetrius, granted Jo­

nathan many advantages, and appointed him to be high priest,

and persuaded him to assist him, although Demetrius promised

him greater advantages on the other side. Concerning the

death of Demetrius.

§ 1. Now in the hundred and sixtieth year, it fell out that

Alexander, the * son of Antiochus Epiphanes, came up into

* This Alexander Bala. who certainly pretended to be the son of Antiochus  
Epiphanes, and was owned for such by the Jews and Romans, and many others*

