Chap. II. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 51

"of Sennacherib." And this proved to lie the conclusion of

this Assyrian expedition against the people of Jerusalem.

CHAP. II.

Hffw Hezekiah was sick and ready to die / and hem God bestow*

ed upon him fifteen years longer life, [and secured that promise}

by the going back of the shadow ten degrees,

-j| 1. JN ow king Hezekiah being thus delivered, after a sur­  
prising manner, from the dread he was in, offered thank-offer­

ings to God, with all his people, because nothing else had de­

stroyed some of their enemies, and made the rest so fearful 01

undergoing the same fate, that they departed from Jerusalem, by

that divine assistance: Yet, while he was very zealous and diligent

about the worship of God, did he soon afterward fall into a severe

* distemper, insomuch that the physicians despaired of him, and  
expected no good issue of his sickness as neither did his friends;

and besides the distemper itself, there was a very melancholy

circumstance that disordered the king, which was the considera­

tion that he was childless, and was going to die, and leave his

house and his government without a successor o: his own body;

so he was troubled at the thoughts of this his condition, and la­

mented himself, and entreated of God that he would prolong his

life for a little while till he had some children, and not suffer him

to depart this life before he was become a father. Hereupon

God had mercy upon him, and accepted of his supplication, be­

cause the trouble he was under at his supposed death was not be­

cause he was soon to leave the advantages he enjoyed in the king­

dom, nor did he on that account pray that he might have a longer

Jife afforded him, but in order to have sons, that might receive

the government after him. And God sent Isaiah the prophet, and

commanded him to inform Hezekiah, that " within three days'

"time he should get clear of his distemper, and should sur-

"vive it fifteen years, and that he should have children also."

^Now upon the prophet's saying this, as God had commanded!

him; he could hardly believe it, both on account of the distemper

* Josephus, and all our copies place the siclmess of Hezekiah after the destruction  
of. Sennacherib's army, because it appear* to have been after his first
assault, as he-

was going into Arabia and Egypt, where he pushed his conquests as far as they

would go ; and in order to despatch his story altogether; yet does no copy but
this of

Josephus say it was after that destruction, but only that it happened in those
days,

or about the time of Hezekiah's life. Nor will the fifteen years prolongation
of his

life after his sickness, allow that sickness to hate been later than the
former part of

the 15th year of his reign, since chronology does not allow him in all above
29 years

and a few months, whereas the first assault of Sennacherib was on the 14th
year of

Hezekiah, but the destruction of Sennacherib's army was not till the IStb
year.

VOL. II. G 17

