Chap. III. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 329

Herod was supposed to be dead, yet was not that purpose of

theirs a secret; but when the king had conducted Antony on his

way against the Parthians, he returned to Judea, when both his

sister Salome, and his mother informed him of Alexandra's in­

tentions. Salome also added somewhat farther against Joseph,

though it were no more than a calumny, that he had often had

criminal conversation with Mariamne. The reason of her say­

ing so was this, that she for a long time bare her ill-will, for

when they had differences with one another, Mariamne took

great freedoms and reproached the rest for the meanness of their

birth. But Herod, whose affection to Mariamne was always

very warm, was presently disturbed at this, and could not bear

the torments of jealousy, but was still restrained from doing any

rash thing to her by the love he had for her: yet did his vehe­

ment affection and jealousy together make him ask Mariamne by

herself about this matter of Joseph; but she denied it upon her

oath, and said all that an innocent woman could possibly say in

her own defence, so that by little and little the king was prevail­

ed upon to drop the suspicion, and left off his anger at her; and

being overcome with his passion for his wife, he made an apolo­

gy to her for having seemed to believe what he had heard about

her, and returned her a great many acknowledgments of her mo­

dest behaviour, and professed the extraordinary affection and

kindness he had for her, till at last, as is usual between lovers,

they both fell into tears, and embraced one another with a most

tender affection. But as the king gave more and more assur­

ances of his belief of her fidelity, and endeavoured to draw her to

a like confidence in him, Mariamne said, "Yet was not that

"command thou gavest, that if any harm came to thee from

"Antony, I, who had been no occasion of it, should perish with

"thee, a sign of thy love to me." When these words were fall­

en from her, the king was shocked at them, and presently let her

go out of his arms, and cried out, and tore his hair with his own

hands, and said, that " now he had an evident demonstration that

"Joseph had had criminal conversation with his wife, for that

"he would never have uttered what he had told him alone by

"himself, unless there had been such a great familiarity and firm

"confidence between them." And while he was in this passion

he had like to have killed his wife, but being still overborne by

his love to her, he restrained this his passion, though not with­

out a lasting grief, and disquietness of mind. However, he gave

order to slay Joseph, without permitting him to come into his

sight; and as for Alexandra, he bound her, and kept her in

custody, as the cause of all this mischief.

