Chap. XIII. ATmyvmES OF THE JEWS. 4S

caught them, and slew them: nor did this degree of transgress­

ing suffice them, but they had more wicked contrivances than

what have been described: Nor did they leave off, before God,

as a punishment for their impiety, brought them under their

enemies; but of that more hereafter. However, many there wer»

of the tribe of Manasseh, and of Zebulon, and of Issachar, wh<t

were obedient to what the prophets exhorted .them to do, and

returned to the worship of God. Now all these came running

to Jerusalem^ to Hezekiah, that they might worship God

[there].

3. Where these men were come, king Hezekiah went up into

the temple, with the rulers' and all the people, and offered for

himself seven bulls, and as many rams, with seven lambs, and as

many kids of the goats. The king also himself, and the rulers,

laid their hands on the heads of the sacrifices, and'perrnitted tha

priests to complete the sacred offices about them. So they both

slew the sacrifices, and burnt the burnt-offerings, while the Le-

vites stood round about them, with their musical instruments,

and sang hymns to God, and played on their psalteries, as they

were instructed by David to do, and this while the rest of the;

priests returned the music, and sounded the trumpets which

they had in their hands : and when this was done, the king.and

the multitude threw themselves down upon their face and wor­

shipped God; He also sacrificed seventy bulls, one hundred

rams, and two hundred lambs. He also granted the multitude

sacrifices to feast upon, six hundred oxen, and three thousand

other cattle; and the priests performed all things according to

the law. Now'the king was so pleased herewith, that he feasted

with the people, and returned thanks to God: But as the feast

of unleavened bread was now come, when they had offered that

sacrifice which is called the Passover, they after that offered

other sacrifices for seven days : When the king had bestowed on

the multitude, besides what they sanctified of themselves, two

thousand bulls, and seven thousand other cattle, the same thing

was done by the rulers; for they gave them a thousand bulls,

and a thousand and forty other cattle. Nor had this festival

been so well observed from the days of king Solomon, as it was

now first" observed with great splendour and magnificence: and

when the festival was ended, they went out into the country, and

purged it; and cleansed the city of all the pollution of the idols.

The king also gave order that the daily sacrifice should be offer­

ed, at his own charges, and according to the law ; and appoint­

ed that the tythes, and the first fruits should be given by the

multitude to the priests and Levites, that they might constantly

attend tipon divine service, and never be taken off from the wor­

ship of God. Accordingly, the multitude brought together all

VOL. II. I 17

