Chap. IV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 201

CHAP. IV.

Hffti) Alexander honoured Jonathan after an extraordinary man­

ner, and how Demetrius, the son of Demetrius, overcame Alex­

ander, and made a league of friendship with Jonathan.

§ 1. .DEMETRIUS being thus slain in battle, as we have

above related, Alexander took the kingdom of Syria; and

wrote to Ptolemy Philometer, and desired his daughter in mar­

riage; and said, it was but just that he should be joined in af­

finity to one that had now received the principality of his fore­

fathers, and had been promoted to it by God's providence, and

had conquered Demetrius, and that was on other accounts not

unworthy of being related to him. Ptolemy received this pro­

posal of marriage gladly; and wrote him an answer, saluting

him on account of his having received the principality of his

forefathers; and promising him that he would give him his

daughter in marriage; and assured him that he was coming to

meet him at Ptolemais, and desired that he would there meet

him, for that he would accompany her from Egypt so far, and

would there marry his child to him. When Ptolemy had written

thus, he came suddenly to Ptolemais, and brought his cousin

Cleopatra along with him: and as he found Alexander there

before him, as he desired him to come, he gave him his child in

marriage, and for her portion gave her as much silver and gold

as became such a king to give.

2. When the wedding was over, Alexander wrote to Jona­

than the high priest, and desired him to come to Ptolemais.

So when he came to these kings, and had made them mag­

nificent presents, he was honoured by them both. Alexan­

der compelled him also to put off his own garment, and to

take a purple garment, and made him sit with him in his

throne; and commanded his captains that they should go with

him into the middle of the city, and proclaim, that it was

not permitted to any one to speak against him, or to give him

any disturbance. And when the captains had thus done, those

that were prepared to accuse Jonathan, and who bore him ill-

will, when they saw the honour that was done him by procla­

mation, and that by the king's order, ran away, and were afraid

lest some mischief should befall them. Nay, king Alexander was

so very kind to Jonathan, that he set him down as the principal

of his friends.

3. But then, upon the hundred and sixty-fifth year, Deme­

trius, the sen of Demetrius, came from Crete with a great

number of mercenary soldiers, which Lasthenes, the Cretian,

