20 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book IX.

out of his wrath against him), and so he died miserably, and

saw his own bowels fall out The people also abused his dead

body: I suppose it was because they thought that such his death

came upon him by the wrath of God, and that therefore he was

not worthy to partake of such a funeral as became kings. Ac­

cordingly, they neither buried him in the sepulchres of his fa­

thers, nor vouchsafed him any honours, but buried him like a

private man, and this when he had lived forty years, and reigned

eight: And the people of Jerusalem delivered the government to

his son Ahaziah.

CHAP. VI.

How Jehu was anointed king and slew both Joram and Ahaziah ',

as also what he did for the punishment of the wicked.

$ 1. Now Joram the king of Israel, after the death of

Benhadad, hoped that he might now take Ramoth, a city of

Gilead from the Syrians. Accordingly he made an expedi­

tion against it, with a great army: but as he was besieging it,

an arrow was shot at him by one of the Syrians, but the wound

was not mortal: So he returned to have his wound healed in

Jezrcel, but left his whole army in Ramoth, and Jehu the son of

Nimshi for their general, for he had already taken the city by

force; and he proposed, after he was healed, to make war with

the Syrians; but Elisha the prophet sent one of hie disciples to

Ramoth, and gave him holy oil to anoint Jehu, and to tell him,

that God had chosen him to be their king. He also sent him to

say other things to him, and bid him to take his journey as if he

fled, that when he came away he might escape the knowledge of

all men. So when he was come to the city, he found Jehu sitting in

the midst of the captains of the army, as Elisha had foretold he

should find him. So he came up to him, and said, that he desired

to speak with him about certain matters; and when he was arisen,

and had followed him into an inward chamber, the young man

took the oil, and poured it on his head, and said, that " God or-

"dained him to be king, in order to his destroying the house of

"Ahab, and that he might revenge the blood of the prophets,

"that were unjustly slain by Jezebel, that so their house

"might utterly perish, as those of Jeroboam the son of Nebat,

"and of Baasha, had perished for their wickedness, and no seed

"might remain of Ahab's family." So when he had said this,

he went away hastily out of the chamber, and endeavoured not

to be seen by any of the army.

2. But Jehu came out, and went to the place where he before

sat with the captains : and when they asked him, and desired him

to tell them, wherefore it was that this young man came to him?

