132 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XI.

for Alexander, when he saw the multitude at a distance, in white

garments, while the priest stood clothed with fine linen, and the

high priest in purple and scarlet clothing, with his mitre on his

head, having the golden plate whereon the name of God was

engraved, he approached by himself, and adored that name, and

first saluted the high priest. The Jews also did altogether, with

one voice, salute Alexander, and encompass him about: Where­

upon the king of Syria, and the rest, were surprised at what

Alexander had done, and supposed him disordered in his mind.

However, Parmenio alone went up to him, and asked him,

"How it came to pass, that when all others adored him, he

"should adore the high priest of the Jews?" To whom he re­

plied, " I did not adore him, but that God who hath honoured

"him with his high priesthood; for I saw this very person in

"a dream, in this very habit, when I was at Dios in Mace-

"donia, who, when I was considering with myself how I might

"obtain the dominion of Asia, exhorted me to make no delay,

"but boldly to pass over the sea thither, for that he would eon-

"duct my army, and would give me the dominion over the

"Persians; whence it is, that having seen no other in that ha-

"bit, and now seeing this person in it, and remembering that

"vision, and the exhortation which I had in my dream, I believe

"that I bring this army under the divine conduct, and shall

"therewith conquer Darius, and destroy the power of the Per-

"sians, and that all things will succeed according to what is in

"my own mind." And when he had said this to Parmenio,

and had given the high priest his right hand, the priests ran

along by him, and he came into the city. And when he went up

into the temple, he offered sacrifice to God, according to the

high priest's direction; and magnificently treated both the high

priest and the priests. And when the * book of Daniel was

showed him, wherein Daniel declared that one of the Greeks

should destroy the empire of the Persians, he supposed that him­

self was the person intended: And as he was then glad, he dis­

missed the multitude for the present, but the next day he called

them to him, and bid them ask what favours they pleased of

him; whereupon the high priest desired that they might enjoy

the laws of their forefathers, and might pay no tribute on the

seventh year. He granted all they desired. And when they

entreated him that he would permit the Jews in Babylon and

Media to enjoy their own laws also, he willingly promised to do

hereafter what they desired. And when he said to the multi­

tude, that if any of them would list themselves in his army, on

this condition that they should continue under the laws of their

* The place showed Alexander, might be Dan. vii. 3—8, 20, 21, 22. xi. 3.  
tome or all of them very olain oredii'tions of A lexander's conriuoits and
successors.

