Chap. VII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 84>7

employment was bestowed upon him accordingly. Now, when

Herod was come into Egypt, he was introduced to Caesar with

great freedom, as already a friend of his, and received very great

favours from him; for he made him a present of those four

hundred Galatians who had been Cleopatra's guards, and restor­

ed that country to him again, which by her means, had been

taken away from him. He also added to his kingdom, Gadara,

Hippos, and Samaria: and, besides those, the maritime cities,

Gaza, and Anthedon, and Joppa, and Strato's Tower.

4. Upon these new acquisitions, he grew more magnificent,

and conducted Caesar as far as Antioch; but upon his return, as

much as his prosperity was augmented by the foreign additions

that had been made him, so much the greater were the distresses

that came upon him in his own family, and chiefly in the affair

of his wife, wherein he formerly appeared to have been most

of all fortunate; for the affection he had for Mariamne was

no way inferior to the affections of such as are on that account

celebrated in history, and this very justly. ^As for her, she was

in other respects a chaste woman, and faithful to him; yet had

she somewhat of a woman rough by nature, and treated her hus­

band imperiously enough, because she saw he was so fond of her

as to be enslaved to her. She did not also consider seasonably

with herself that she lived under a monarchy, and that she was at

another's disposal, and accordingly would behave herself after a

saucy manner to him, which yet he usually put off' in a jesting

way, and bore with moderation and good temper. She would

also expose his mother and his sister openly, on account of the

meanness of their birth, and would speak unkindly of them, in­

somuch, that there was before this a disagreement and unpardon­

able hatred among the women, and it was now come to greater

reproaches of one another than formerly, which suspicions in­

creased, and lasted a whole year after Herod returned from Cae­

sar. However, these misfortunes, which had been kept under

some decency for a great while, burst out all at once upon such

an occasion as was now offered; for as the king was one day

about noon lain down on his bed to rest him, he called for Ma­

riamne, out of the great affection he had always for her. She

came in accordingly, but would not lie down by him: and when

he was very desirous of her company, she showed her contempt

of him; and added, by way of reproach, that he had caused * her

* Whereas Mariamne is here represented as reproaching Herod with the murder  
of \icrfather [Alexander,] as well as her brother [Aristobulus,] while it was
her

grandfather Hyrcanus, ana not her father Alexander, whom be caused to be
slain,

fas Josephus himself informs us, ch. vi. sect. 2.) we must either take
Zonora's read­

ing, which is here grandfather rightly, or else we must, :u before, ch. i.
sect. 1. allow

a slip of Josephus' pen, or memory, in the place before us.

VOL. II XX . . 25

