Chajl. Vf. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 12S

** be able to be revenged of Mordecai, for that God was with  
"him."

II. Now while these men were thus talking one to another,

Esther's eunuchs hastened Haman away to come to supper; but

one of the eunuchs named Sabuchadas, saw the gallows that was

fixed in Haman's house, and inquired of one of his servants, for

what purpose they had prepared it? So he knew that it was for

the queen's uncle, because Haman was about to petition the king

that he might be punished, but at present he held his peace.

Now when the king, with Haman, were at the banquet, he de­

sired the queen to tell him what gift she desired to obtain, and

assured her that she should have whatsoever she had a mind to.

She then lamented the danger her people were in; and said,

that "she and her nation were given up to be destroyed, and

"that she, on that account, made this her petition: that she

"would not have troubled him if he had only given order that

"they should be sold into bitter servitude, for such a misfortune

"would not have been intolerable; but she desired that they

"might be delivered from such a destruction." And when the

king inquired of her who was the author of this misery to them?

she then openly accused Haman, and convicted him, that he

had been the wicked instrument of this, and had formed his

plot against them.- When the king was hereupon in disorder,

and was gone hastily out of the banquet into the gardens, Ha­

man began to intercede with Esther, and to beseech her to for­

give him, as to what he had offended, for he perceived that he

was in a very bad case. And as he had fallen upon the queen's

bed, and was making supplication to her, the king came in, and

being still more provoked at what he saw, "O thou wretch,

"said he, thou vilest of all mankind, dost thou aim to force

"my wife?" And when Haman was astonished at this, and

not able to speak one word more, Sabuchadas the eunuch came

in, and accused Haman and said, " He found a gallows at his

"house prepared for Mordecai, for that the servant told him

"so much upon his inquiry, when he was sent to him to call

"him to supper." He said farther, "that the gallows was fifty

"cubits high." Which when the king heard, he determined that

Haman should be punished after no other manner than that

which had been devised by him against Mordecai: so he gave

order immediately that he should be hung upon this gallows,

and be put to death after that manner. And from hence I can­

not forbear to admire God, and to learn hence his wisdom and

his justice, not only in punishing the wickedness of Haman,

but in so disposing it, that Ire should undergo the very same

punishment which he had contrived for another; as also, be­

cause he thereby teaches others this lesson, that what mischiefs

VOL. II g 19

