210 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIII.

was in it. When the inhabitants of Gaza saw themselves in this

state of affliction, and that no assistance came to them from De­

metrius, that what distressed them was at hand, but what should

profit them was still at a great distance, and it was uncertain

whether it would come at all or not, they thought it would be

prudent conduct to leave off any longer continuance .with him,

and to cultivate friendship with the other; so they sent to Jona­

than, and professed they would be his friends, and afford him

assistance; for such is the temper of men, that before they have

had the trial of great afflictions, they do not understand what is

for their advantage; but when they find themselves under such

afflictions, they then change their minds, and what it had been

better for them to have done before they had been at all dam­

aged, they choose to do, but not till after they have suffered

such damages. However, he made a league of friendship with

them, and took from them hostages for their performance of

it, and sent these hostages to Jerusalem, while he went himself

over all the country as far as Damascus.

6. But when he heard that the generals of Demetrius' forces

were come to the city Kadesh with a numerous army, (the

place lies between the land of the Tyrians and Galilee,) for they

supposed they should hereby draw him out of Syria, in order

to preserve Galilee, and that he would not overlook the Gali­

leans, who were his own people, when war was made upon them,

he went to meet them, having left Simon in Judea, who raised

as great an army as he was able out of the country, and then

sat down before Bethsura, and besieged it, that being the strong­

est place in all Judea; and a garrison of Demetrius' kept it,

as we have already related. But as Simon was raising banks,

and bringing his engines of war against Bethsura, and was very

earnest about the siege of it, the garrison was afraid lest the

place should be taken of Simon by force, and they put to the

sword; so they sent to Simon, and desired the security 'of his

oath, that they should come to no harm from him, and that

they would leave the place, and go away to Demetrius. Ac­

cordingly he gave them his oath, and ejected them out of the

city, and he put therein a garrison of his own.

7. But Jonathan removed out of Galilee, and from the wa­

ters which are called Gennesar, for there he was before en­

camped, and came into the plain that is called Asor, without

knowing that the enemy was there. When therefore Deme­

trius' men knew a day beforehand, that Jonathan was coming

against them, they laid an ambush in the mountain, who were

to assault him on the sudden, while they themselves met him

with an army in the plain: which army when Jonathan saw

ready to engage him, he also got ready his own soldiers for the

