S62 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JKWS. Book XV.

that place where he had conquered the Jews when he was driven

out of his government, and Antigonus enjoyed it. This citadel

is distant from Jerusalem about threescore furlongs. It was

strong by nature, and fit for such a building. It is a sort of a

moderate hill, raised to a farther height by the hand of man, till

it was of the shape of a woman's breast. It is encompassed with

circular towers, and hath a strait ascent up to it, which ascent

is composed of steps of polished stones, in number two hundred.

Within it are royal and very rich apartments, of a stucture

that provided both for security and for beauty. About the

bottom thei'e are habitations of such a structure as are well worth

seeing, both on other accounts, and also on account of the water

which is brought thitherfrom a great way off, and at vastexpenses,

for the place itself is destitute of water. The plain that is about

this citadel is full of edifices; not inferior to any city in large­

ness, and having the hill above it in the nature of a castle.

5. And now, when all Herod's designs had succeeded accord*

ing to his hopes, he had not the least suspicion that any troubles

could arise in his kingdom, because he kept his people obedient,

as well by the fear they stood in of him, for he was implacable

in the infliction of his punishments, as by the provident care he

had showed towards them, after the most magnanimous manner,

when they were under their distresses: But still he took care to

have external security for his government as a fortress against his

subjects; for the orations he made to the cities were very fine,

and full of kindness, and he cultivated a seasonable good under­

standing with their governors, and bestowed presents on every

one of them, inducing them thereby to be more friendly to him,

and using his magnificent disposition, so as his kingdom might be

the better secured to him, and this till all his affairs were every

way more and more augmented. But then, this magnificent

temper of his, and that submissive behaviour and liberality which

he exercised towards Caesar, and the most powerful men of Rome,

obliged him to transgress the customs of his nation, and to set

aside many of their laws, and by building cities after an extrava­

gant manner, and erecting temples; * not in Judea indeed, for that

* One may here take notice, that how tyrannical and extravagant soever Herod  
was in himself, and in his Grecian cities, as to those plays, and shows, and
temples

tor idolatry, mentioned above, ch. viii. sect. 1. and here also, yet durst
even he intro­

duce very few of them into the cities of ihe Jews, who, as Josephus here
notes, would

not even then have borne them, so zealous were they still for many of the
la\vs of Moses,

even under so tyrannical a government as this wasof Herod the Great; which
tyrannical

government puts me naturally in mind of Dean Prideaux's honest reflection upon
the

like ambition, after such tyrannical- power in Pompey and Casar; " One of
these, [says

"he, at the year GO,] could notEear an equal, nor the other a superior; and
through

« this ambitious humour and thirxt after more power in these two men, the

