Chap. XI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 79

When he had seen this dream, he called the magicians together

again, and inquired of them about it, and desired them to tell

him what it signified;. but when none of them could find out the

meaning of the dream, nor discover it to the king, Daniel was

the only person that explained it: and as he foretold so it came

to pass; for after he had continued in the wilderness the fore-

mentioned interval of time, while no one durst attempt to seize

his kingdom during those seven years, he prayed to God that he

might recover his kingdom, and he returned to it. But let no

one blame me for writing down every thing of this nature, as

I find it in our ancient books; for as to that matter, J have

plainly assured those that think me defective in any such

point, or complain of my management, and have told them in

the beginning of this history, that I intended to do no more

than translate the Hebrew books into the Greek language, and

promised them to explain those facts, without adding any thing

to them of my own, or taking any thing away from them.

: ';>;-r/i!"-ii.•t f. i''' - -i''

CHAP. XI .

:S»rlj' '• - >

mcerning Nebuchadnezzar and his successors: and kffw their

government was dissolved by the Persians; and what things

befell Daniel in Media, and what prophecies he delivered there.

J 1. JN ow when king Nebuchadnezzar had reigned * forty-

three years, he ended his life. He was an active man, and more

fortunate than the kings that were before him. Now Berosus

makes mention of his actions in the third book of his Chaldaic

history, where he says thus: "When his father Nebuchodonosor

"[Nabopollassar] heard that the governor whom he had set

"over Egypt, and the places about Celoesyria and Phenicia, had

"revolted from him, while he was not himself able any longer to

"undergo the hardships [of war], he committed to his son Ne-

"buchadnezzar, who was still but a youth, some parts of his

"army, and sent them against them. So when Ncbuchadnez-

"zar had given battle, and fought with the rebel, he beat him,

"and reduced the country from under his subjection, and made

able, both in sacred and profane authors, that such vacuity of eight years at
the

least, at the latter end of his reign, must be allowed to agree very well with
Daniel's

accounts, that after a seven years' brutal life, he might return to his
reason, and to

the exercise of bio royal authority, for one whole year at least before his
death.

* These 45 years for the duration of the reign of Nebuchadnezzar are, as I have  
just now observed, the very same number in Ptolemy's canon. Moses Chorenensis

does also confirm this captivity of the Jews under Nebuchadnezzar, and adds,
what

is very remarkable, that one ofthoae Jews that were carried by him into
captivity got

away into Armenia, and raised the great family of the Bagraditx there.

