422 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVI.

c*

together, and to appoint some place near * Berytus, which

is a city belonging to the Romans, and to take the presi-

"dents of Syria, and Archelaus king of Cappadocia, and as

"many more as he thought to be illustrious, tor their friend-

"ship to him, and the dignities they were in, and determine

"what should be done by their approbation." These were

the directions that Caesar gave him. Accordingly Herod,

when the letter was brought to him, was immediately very

flad of Caesar's reconciliation to him, and very glad also that

e had a complete authority given him over his sons. And

it strangely came about, that whereas before, in his adversity,

though he had indeed showed himself severe, yet had he not

been very rash, nor hasty in procuring the destruction of his

sons, he now, in his prosperity, took advantage of this change

for the better, and the freedom he now had, to exercise his

hatred against them, after an unheard of manner; he therefore

sent and called as many as he thought fit to this assembly, ex­

cepting Archelaus, for as for him, he either hated him, so that

he would not invite him, or he thought he would be an obsta­

cle to his designs.

2. When the presidents, and the rest that belonged to the

ci nes, were come to Berytus, he kept his sons in a certain vil­

lage belonging to Sidon, called Platana, but near to this city,

that if they were called he might produce them, for he did not

think fit to bring them before the assembly: and when there were

one hundred and fifty assessors present, Herod came by himself

alone, and accused his sons, and that in such a way as if it were

not a melancholy accusation, and not made but out of necessity,

and upon the misfortunes he was under: indeed in such a way,

as was very indecent for a father to accuse his sons, for he was

very vehement and disordered, when he came to the demonstra­

tion of the crime they were accused of, and gave the greatest

signs of passion and barbarity: nor would he suffer the assessors

to consider of the weight of the evidence, but asserted them to

be true by his own authority, after a manner most indecent in a

father against his sons, and read himself what they themselves

had written, wherein there was no confession of any plots or con­

trivances against him. But only how they had contrived to fly

away, and containing withal certain reproaches against him, on

account of the ill-will he bore them; and when he came to those

* What Josephus relates Augustus to have here said, that Berytus was a city  
belonging to the Romans, is confirmed by Spanheim's notes here: *' It was,"
says

he, "a colony placed there by Augustus. Whence Ulpian. De tens. teL L- T.

"X\r. The colony of Berytus was rendered famous /», the benefits of Caesar'
And

"thence it is that, among the coins of Augustus, we meet with some having this

!' inscription: The hafjty colony if Augustus at Berytus."

