Chap. XL ANTIOUITII'.S OF THE JKWH. '4,<2l

9. This provoked Caesar more than'ever: so he turned to

Sylleus full of rage, and asked him how many of the Arabians

were slain? Hereupon he hesitated, and said he had been im­

posed upon. The covenants also were read about the money he

had borrowed, and the letters of the presidents of Syria, and the

complaints of the several cities, so many as had been injured by

the robbers. The conclusion was this, that Sylleus was con­

demned to die, and that Caesar was reconciled to Herod, and

owned his repentance for what severe things he had written to

him, occasioned by calumny, insomuch that he told Sylleus, that

he had compelled him, by his lying account of things, to be

guilty of ingratitude against a man that was his friend. At the

last, all came to this; Sylleus was sent away to answer Herod's

suit, and to repay the debt that he owed, and after that to be

punished [with death]: But still Caesar was offended with Are-

tas, that he had taken upon himself the government, without

his consent first obtained, for he had determined to bestow

Arabia upon Herod; but that the letters he had sent hindered

him from so doing, for Olympus and Volumnius, perceiving

that Caesar was now become favourable to Herod, thought fit

immediately to deliver him the letters they were commanded

by Herod to give him concerning his sons. When Csssar had

read them, he thought it would not be proper to add another

government to him, now he was old, and in an ill state with re­

lation to his sons, so he admitted Aretas' ambassadors; and

after he had just reproved him for his rashness, in not tarrying

till he received the kingdom from him, he accepted of his pre­

sents, and confirmed him in his government.

CHAP. XI.

How Herod, by permission from Ctesar, accused his sons before

an assembly of judges at Berytus,- and what Tero suffered.

Jar using a boundless and military liberty of speech. Con­

cerning also the death of the young men, and their burial at

Alexandrium.

5 1. So Caesar was now reconciled to Herod; and wrote

thus to him, That "he was grieved for him on account of

"his sons: and that in case they had been guilty of any profane

"and insolent crimes against him, it would behove him to pu-

"nish them as parricides, for which he gave him power accord-

"ingly; but if they had only contrived to fly away, he would

"have him give them an admonition, and not proceed to extre-

"mity with them. He also advised him to get an assembly

