286 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIV.

"they had desired of them, that Antiochus the king, the son

"of Antiochus, should do no injury to the Jews, the confede-

"rates of the Romans; and that the fortresses, and the havens,

"and the country, and whatsoever else he had taken from them

"should be restored to them; and that it may be lawful for

"them to export their goods out of their own havens; and that

"no king nor people may have leave to export any goods,

"either out of the country of Judea, or out of their havens, with-

"out paying customs, but only Ptolemy the king of Alexan-

"dria, because he is our confederate and friend; and that ac-

"cording to their desire, the garrison that is in Joppa may be

"ejected. Now Lucius Petius, one of our senators, a worthy

"and good man, gave order that we should take care that these

"things should be done according to the senate's decree; and

"that we should take care also that their ambassadors might

"return home in safety. Accordingly, we admitted Theodorus

"into our senate and assembly, and took the epistle out of his

"hands, as well as the decree of the senate; And as he dis-

"coursed with great zeal about the Jews, and described Hyr-

"canus' virtue and generosity, and how he was a benefactor

"to all men in common, and particularly to every body that

"comes to him, we laid up the epistle in our public records;

"and made a decree ourselves, that since we also are in confe-

"deracy with the Romans, we would do every thing we could

"for the Jews, according to the senate's decree. Theodorus

"also, who brought the epistle, desired of our pretors, that they

"would send Hyrcanus a copy of that decree, as also ambassa-

"dors to signify to him the affection of our people to him, and

"to exhort them to preserve and augment their friendship for

"us, and be ready to bestow other benefits upon us, as justly

"expecting to receive proper requitals from us: and desiring

"them to remember that our * ancestors were friendly to the

"Jews even in the days of Abraham, who was the father of ali

* We have here a most remarkable and authentic attestation of the citizens of  
Pergamus, that Abraham was the father of all the Hebrews; that their own an­

cestors were, in the oldest time, the friends of those Hebrews; and that the

public acts of their city, then extant, confirmed the same; which evidence is
too

strong to be evaded by our present ignorance of the particular occasion of
such

ancient friendship and alliance between those people. See the like full
evidence of

the kindred of the Lacedemonians and the .lews; and that because they were
both

the posterity of Abraham, by a public epistle of those people to the Jews,
preserved

in the first book of Maccabees, xii. 19—23. and thence by Josephus, Antiq. B.
XII.

chap. iv. sect 1O. both which authentic records are highly valuable. It is
also Well

worthy of observation, what Moses Choronensis, the principal Armenian
historian,

informs us of, p. 83. that Arsaces, who raUed the Parthian Empire, was of trie
seed

vf Abraham by Chetura, and that thereby was accomplished that prediction which

•aid, « Kings of nations shall proceed from thee," Gen. xvii, 6.

