Chap. I. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. S77

BOOK XVI.

CONTAINING THE INTERVAL OF TWELVE YEARS.

[FROM THE FINISHING OF THE TEMPLE BY HEROD TO

THE DEATH OF ALEXANDER AND ARISTOBULUS.J

CHAP. I.

A law of Herod about thieves. Salome and Pheroras, calum­

niate Alexander and Aristobulus, upon their return from Rome,

for whom yet Herod provides wives.

§ 1. As king Herod was very zealous in the administration

of his entire government, and desirous to put a slop to particular

acts of injustice which were clone by criminals about the

city and country, he made a law, no way like our original

laws, and which he enacted of himself, to expose housebreak­

ers to be ejected out of his kingdom; which punishment was

not only grievous to be borne by the offenders, but contained

in it a dissolution of the customs of our forefathers; for this

slavery to foreigners, and such as did not live after the manner

of Jews, and this necessity that they were under to do whatsoever

such men should command, was an offence against our religious

settlement, rather than a punishment to such as were found to

have offended, such a punishment being avoided in our original

laws; for those laws ordain, that the thief shall restore four-fold:

and that if he have not so much, he shall be sold indeed, but not

to foreigners, nor so that he be under perpetual slavery, for he

must have been released after six years. But this law, thus

enacted, in order to introduce a severe and illegal punishment,

seemed to be a piece of insolence in Herod, when he did not act

as a king but as a tyrant, and thus contemptuously, and with­

out any regard to his subjects, did he venture to introduce such

a punishment. Now this penalty, thus brought into practice,

was like Herod's other actions, and became a part of his accu­

sation, and an occasion of the hatred he lay under.

2. Now at this time it was that he sailed to Italy, as very de­

sirous to meet with Caesar, and to see his sons who lived at Rome:

and Caesar was not only very obliging to him in other respects,

but delivered him his sons again, that he might take them home

with him as having already completed themselves in' the sci­

ences; but as soon as tne young men were come from Italy, the

