256 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIV.

3. In the meantime Pompey sent Scaurus into Syria, while

he was himself in Armenia, and making war with Tigranes:

But when Scaurus was come to Damascus, and found that Lol-

lius and Metellus had newly taken the city, he came himself

hastily into Judea. And when he was come thither, ambassa­

dors came to him, both from Aristobulus and Hyrcanus, and

both desired he would assist them. And when both of them

promised to give him money, Aristobulus four hundred talents,

and Hyrcanus no less, he accepted of Aristobulus' promise, for

he was rich and had a great soul, and desired to obtain nothing

but what was moderate; whereas the other was poor, and te­

nacious, and made incredible promises in hopes of greater ad­

vantages; for it was not the same thing to take a city, that was

exceeding strong and powerful, as it was to eject out of the

country some fugitives, with a greater number of Nabateans,

who were no very warlike people. He therefore made an agree­

ment with Aristobulus, for the reasons before mentioned, and

took his money, and raised the siege, and ordered Aretas to

depart, or else he should be declared an enemy to the Romans.

So Scaurus returned to Damascus again; and Aristobulus, with

a great army, made war with Aretas and Hyrcanus, and fought

them at a place called Pajnjron, and beat them in the battle, and

slew about six thousand of the enemy; with whom fell Phalion

also, the brother of Antipater.

CHAP. III.

How Aristobulus and Hyrcanus came to Pompey, in order to ar­

gue isoho ought to have the kingdom: and how upon the flight

of Aristobulus to the fortress Alexandrium, Pompey led his

army against him, and ordered him to deliver up the fortresses

'whereof he was possessed.

4 1. A LITTLE afterward Pompey came to Damascus, and

marched over Celesyria, at which time their came ambassa­

dors to him from all Syria, and Egypt, and out of Judea

also, for Aristobulus had sent him a great present, which was

a * golden vine, of the value of five hundred talents. Now

* Tliis golden vine or garden, seen by Strabo at Rome, lias its inscription here as  
if it were the gift of Alexander, tlie father of Aristobulus, and not of
Aristobulus

himself, to whom yet Josephus ascribes it; and in order to prove the truth of
that

part of his history, introduces this testimony of Strabo's; so that the
ordinary copies

seem to be here either erroneous or defective, and the original reading seems
to have

been either jtrislobulvs, instead of Aiexander, with one Greek copy, or else
jlristnbu-

Itis the son of Alexander, with the Latin copies, which last seems to me the
most pro­

bable—For as to Archbishop Usher's conjectures, that Alexander made it, and
de-

diratud it to Cod in the temple, and that thence Aristolmlus took it, and sent
it to

