Chap. I. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 191

athan said, that he was ready to die for them, and was indeed

esteemed no way inferior to his brother, he was appointed to be

the general of the Jewish army.

2. When Bacchides heard this, he was afraid that Jonathan

might be very troublesome to the king and the Macedonians, as

Judas had been before him, he sought how he might slay him by

treachery: But this invention of his was not unknown to Jona­

than, nor to his brother Simon: but when these two were ap­

prized of it, they took all their companions, and presently fled

into that wilderness which was nearest to the city; and when

they were come to a lake called Asphar, they abode there. But

when Bacchides was sensible that they were in a low state, and

were in that place, he hasted to fall upon them with all his for­

ces, and pitching his camp beyond Jordan, he recruited his ar­

my: But when Jonathan knew that Bacchides was coming upon

him, he sent his brother John, who was also called Gaddis, to

the Nabatean Arabs, that he might lodge his baggage with them

until the battle with Bacchides should be over, for they were

the Jews' friends. And the sons of Ambri laid an ambush for

John from the city Medaba, and seized upon him, and upon

those that were with him, and plundered all that they had with

them : They also slew John, and all his companions. However,

they were sufficiently punished for what they now did by John's

brethren, as we shall relate presently.

3. But when Bacchides knew that Jonathan had pitched his

camp among the lakes of Jordan, he observed when their Sab­

bath day came, and then assaulted him as supposing that he

would not fight because of the law [for resting on that day:]

but he exhorted his companions [to fight;] and told them that

their lives were at stake, since they were encompassed by the

river, and by their enemies, and had no way to escape, for that

their enemies pressed upon them before, and the river was behind

them. So after he had prayed to God to give them the victory,

he joined battle with the enemy, of whom he overthrew many;

and as he saw Bacchides coming up boldly to him, he stretched

out his right hand to smite him, but the other foreseeing and

avoiding the stroke, Jonathan with his companions leaped into

the river, and swam over it, and by that means escaped beyond

Jordan, while the enemy did not pass over that river: but Bac­

chides returned presently to the citadel at Jerusalem, having lost

about two thousand of his army. He also fortified many cities

of Judea, whose walls had been demolished, Jericho, and Em-

maus, and Bethoron, and Bethel, and Tirana, and Pharatho,

and Tekoa, and Gazara, and built towers in every one of these

cities, and encompassed them with strong walls, that were very

large also, and put garrisons into them, that they might issue

