Chap. II. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 141

"of every tribe. These, by their age, must be skilful in the

"laws, and of abilities to make Tm accurate interpretation of

"them: and when this shall be finished, I shall think that I

"have done a work glorious to myself. And I have sent to

"thee Andreas, the captain of my guard, and Aristeus, men

"whom I have in very great esteem; by whom I have sent

"those first fruits which I have dedicated to the temple, and to

"the sacrifices, and to other uses, to the value of a hundred

"talents. And if thou wilt send to us, to let us know what

"thou wouldest have farther, thou wilt do a thing acceptable to

« me."

6. When this epistle of the king's was brought to Eleazar, he

wrote an answer to it with all the respect possible: "Eleazar

"the high priest, to king Ptolemy, sendeth greeting: If thou

"and thy * queen Arsinoe, and thy children, be well, we are

"entirely satisfied. When we received thy epistle, we greatly

"rejoiced at thy intentions: And when the multitude were ga-

"thered together, we read it to them, and thereby made them

"sensible of the piety thou hast towards God. We also showed

"them the twenty vials of gold, and thirty of silver, and the

"five large basons, and the table for the show-bread; as also

"the hundred talents for the sacrifices, and for the making what

"shall be needful at the temple. Which things Andreas and

"Aristeus, those most honoured friends of thine, have brought

"us: and truly they are persons of an excellent character, and

"of great learning, and worthy of thy virtue. Know then, that

"we will gratify thee in what is for thy advantage, though we

"do what we used not to do before, for we ought to make a re-

"turn for the numerous acts of kindness which thou hast done

"to our countrymen. We immediately, therefore, offered sa-

"crifices for thee and thy sister, with thy children, and friends;

"and the multitude made prayers, that thy affairs may be to

"thy mind, and that thy kingdom may be preserved in peace,

"and that the translation of our law may come to the conclusion

"thou desirest, and be for thy advantage. We have also chosen

"six elders out of every tribe, whom we have sent, and the law

"with them. It will be thy part, out of thy piety and justice,

"to send back the law, when it hath been translated; and to

"return those to us that bring it in safety. Farewell."

7. This was the reply which the high priest made. But it

* When we have here and presently mention made of Philadelphia' queen, and  
sister Arsinoe, we are to remember, with Spanheim, that Arsinoe was both bis
sis­

ter and his wife, according to the old custom of Persia, and of Egypt at this
very

time; nay, of the Assyrians long afterward. See Antiq. B. XX. ch. ii. sect. I.
vol.

III. Whence we have, upon the coins of Philadelphus, this known inscription,

tAe divine brother and sister.

