42 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book IX.

man, and a despiser of the divine worship. And Shalmaneser,

the king of Assyria, made an expedition against him, and over­

came him, (which must have been because he had not God fa­

vourable or assistant to him), and brought him to submission,

and ordered him to pay an appointed tribute. Now in the

fourth year of the reign of Hoshea, Hezekiah, the son of Ahaz,

began to reign in Jerusalem; and his mother's name was Abi-

jah, a citizen of Jerusalem. His nature was good, and right­

eous, and religious; for when he came to the kingdom, he

thought that nothing was prior, or more necessary, or more

advantageous to himself, and to his subjects, than to worship

God. Accordingly, he called the people together, and the

priests and the Levites, and made a speech to them, and said,

"you are not ignorant, how by the sins of my father, who

"transgressed that sacred honour which was due to God, you

"have had experience of many and great miseries, while you

"were corrupted in your mind by him, and were induced to

"worship those which he supposed to be gods: I exhort you

"therefore, who have learned by sad experience how danger-

"ous a thing impiety is, to put that immediately out of your

"memory, and to purify yourselves from your former pollu-

"tions, and to open the temple to these priests and Levites

"who are here convened, and to cleanse it with the accustom-

"ed sacrifices, and to recover all to the ancient honour which

. " our fathers paid to it; for by this means we may render God

"favourable, and he will remit the anger he hath had to us."

2. When the king had said this, the priests opened the temple;

and when they had set in order the vessels of God, and cast out

what was impure, they laid the accustomed sacrifices upon the al­

tar. The king also sent to the country that was under him, and

called the people to Jerusalem to celebrate the feast of unleaven­

ed bread, for it had been intermitted a long time, on account of the

wickedness of the forementioned kings. He also sent to the

Israelites, and exhorted them to leave off their present way of

living, and return to their ancient practices, and to worship

God, for that he gave them leave to come to Jerusalem, and to

celebrate, all in one body, the feast of unleavened bread; and

this, he said, was by way of invitation only, and to be done

of their own good-will, and for their own advantage, and not

out of obedience to him, because it would make them happy.

But the Israelites, upon the coming of the ambassadors, and up­

on their laying before them what they had in charge from their

own king, were so far from complying therewith, that they

laughed the ambassadors to scorn, and mocked them as fools:

as also they affronted the prophets which gave them the same

exhortations, and foretold what they would suffer if they did not

return to the worship of God, insomuch that at length they

