Chap. III. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 9

Elijah, the three kings went to him at the entreaty of Jehosha-

phat; and when they were come at the prophet's tent, which

tent was pitched out of the camp, they asked him, "What

"would become of the army?" and Joram was particularly

very pressing with him about it. And when he replied to him,

That " he should not trouble him, but go to his father's and

"mother's prophets, for they [to be sure] were true prophets,"

he still desired him to prophesy, and to save them. So he swore

by God, that he would not answer him unless it were on ac­

count of Jehoshaphat, who was an holy and righteous man, and

when, at his desire, they brought him a man that could play on ".

the psaltery, the Divine Spirit came upon him as the music

played, and he commanded them to dig many trenches in the val­

ley; for, said he, "Though there appear neither cloud, nor

"wind, nor storm of rain, ye shall see this valley full of water,

"till the army and the cattle be saved for you by drinking of

"it: Nor will this be all the favour that you shall receive

"from God, but you shall also overcome your enemies, and

"take the best and strongest cities of the Moabites, and you

"shall * cut down their fruit trees, and lay waste their coun-

"try, and stop up their fountains and rivers."

2. When the prophet had said this, the next day, before the

sun rising, a great torrent ran strongly; for God had caused

it to rain very plentifully at the distance of three days' journey

mto Edom; so that the army and the cattle found water to drink

in abundance. But when the Moabites heard that the three

kings were coming upon them, and made their approach

through the wilderness, the king of Moab gathered his army

together presently, and commanded them to pitch their camp

upon the mountains, that when the enemies should attempt to

enter their country, they might not be concealed from them.

But when at the rising of the sun they saw the water in the

torrent, for it was not far from the land of Moab, and that it

was of the colour of blood, for at such a time the water especially

looks red, by the shining of the sun upon it, they formed a false

notion of the state of their enemies, as if they had slain one ano­

ther for thirst; and that the river ran with their blood. How­

ever, supposing that this was the case, they desired their king

would send them out to spoil their enemies; whereupon they

* This practice of cutting down, or plucking up by the roots, the fruit trees,  
was forbidden, even in ordinary wars, by the law of Moses, ])cut. xx. 19, 20.

and only allowed by God in this particular case, when the Moabites were to be

punished and cut oh" in an extraordinary manner for their wickedness. See Jer.

xlviii. 11, 1'.?, 13. and many the like prophecies against them. Nothing could

therefore justify this practice but a particular commission from God by his
pro­

phet, as in the present case, which was ever a sufficient warrant for breaking
any

tucb ritual or ceremonial law whatsoever.

