Chap. VIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. S55

this was no better than a dissolution of those customs for which

they had so great a veneration. It appeared also no better than

an instance of barefaced impiety, to throw men to wild beasts,

for the affording delight to the spectators, and it appealed an

instance of no less impiety, to change their own laws for such

foreign exercises : but, above all the rest, the trophies gave most

distaste to the Jews, for as they imagined them to be images,

included within the armour that hung round about them, they

were sorely displeased at them, because it was not the custom of

their country to pay honours to such images.

2. Nor was Herod unacquainted with the disturbance they

were under; and as he thought it unseasonable to use violence

with them, so he spoke tosome of them by way of consolation, and

in order to free them from that superstitious fear they were

under; yet could not he satisfy them, but they cried out with one

accord, out of their great uneasiness at the offences they thought

he had been guilty of, that although they should think of bear­

ing all the rest, yet would they never bear images of men in

their city, meaning the trophies, because this was disagreeable

to the laws of their country. Now when Herod saw them in

such a disorder, and that they would not easily change their re­

solution unless they received satisfaction in this point, he call­

ed to him the most eminent men among them, and brought

them upon the theatre, and showed them the trophies, and asked

them, what sort of things they took these trophies to be? And

when they cried out, that they were the images of men, he gave

order that they should be stripped of these outward ornaments

which were about them, and showed them the naked pieces of

wood ; which pieces of wood, now without any ornament, became

matter of great sport and laughter to them, because they had be­

fore always had the ornaments of images themselves in derision.

3. When therefore Herod had thus got clear of the multitude,

and had dissipated the vehemency of passion under which they

had been, the greatest part of the people were disposed to change

their conduct, and not to be displeased at him any longer; but

still some of them continued in their displeasure against him, for

his introduction of new customs, and esteemed the violation of

the laws of their country as likely to be the origin of very great

mischiefs to them, so that they deemed it an instance of piety

rather to hazard themselves [to be put to death,] than to seem

and to bring them in love with Paganish idolatry, and Paganish conduct of
life, but

to the dissolution of the law of Moses, and accordingly were greatly and
justly con­

demned by them, as appears here and every where else in Jcsephus. Nor is the
case

of our modern masquerades, plays, operas, and the like pomps and vanitiet of
thii

wicked world, of any butter tendency under Christianity.

vou iI. y Y 25

