Chap. IV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 15

day, at the very same hour in which the king came to him, they

should have great plenty of food, and that two seah of barley

should be sold in the market for a shekel, and a seah of fine

flour should be sold for a shekel. This prediction made Jo-

ram, and those that were present, very joyful, for they did not

scruple believing what the prophet said, on account of the expe­

rience they had of the truth of his former predictions ; and the

expectation of plenty made the want they were in that day, with

the uneasiness that accompanied it, appear a light thing to them:

but the captain of the third band, who was a friend of the king's,

and on whose hand the king leaned, said, "Thou talkest of in-

"credible things, O prophet! for as it is impossible for God to

"pour down torrents of barley, or fine flour, out of heaven, so

"is it impossible that what thou sayest should come to pass."

To which the prophet made this reply, "Thou shalt see these

"things come to pass, but thou shalt not be in the least a par-

"taker of them."

5. Now what Elisha had thus foretold, came to pass in the

manner following: There was a * law at Samaria, that those

that had the leprosy, and whose bodies were not cleansed from

it, should abide without the city; and there were four men that

on this account abode before the gates, while nobody gave them

any food, by reason of the extremity of the famine: and as they

were prohibited from entering into the city by the law, and they

considered that if they were permitted to enter, they should mi­

serably perish by the famine, as also, that if they staid where

they were, they should suffer in the same manner, they resolved

to deliver themselves up to the enemy, that in case they should

spare them, they should live, but if they should be killed, that

would'be an easy death. So when they had confirmed this their

resolution, they came by night to the enemies' camp. Now God

had begun to affright and disturb the Syrians, and to bring the

noise of chariots and armour to their ears, as though an army

were coming upon them, and had made them suspect that it was

coming nearer and nearer to them. In short, they were in such

a dread of this army, that they left their tents, and ran together

to Benhadad, and said, That "Joram the king of Israel had hired

"for auxiliaries, both the king of Egypt and the king of the

"islands, and led them against them, for they heard the noise of

"them as they were coming." And Benhadad believed what

they said (for there came the same noise to his ears as well as it

did to theirs), so they fell into a mighty disorder and tumult,

and left their horses and beasts in their camp, with immense

* This law of the Jews, for the exclusion of lepers out of the camp in the  
"ilderness, and out of the cities in Juik-a, is a well known one, Lev, xiii.
46. and

Sum. v. 1—4.

