Chap. XI. ANTIQUIT1KS OF THE JEWS. 291

ought not to he admitted, when the multitude were purifying

themselves. But Herod had little regard to the messengers, that

were sent to him, and entered the city in the night time, and af­

frighted Malichus, yet did he remit nothing of his former dissi­

mulation, but wept for Antipater, and bewailed him as a friend

of his, with a loud voice: But Herod and his friends thought it

proper, not openly to contradict Malichus' hypocrisy, but to

give him tokens of mutual friendship, in order to prevent his

suspicion of them.

6. However, Herod sent to Cassius, and informed him of the

murder of his father; who knowing what sort of man Malichus

was as to his morals, sent him back word, that he should revenge

his father's death; and also sent privately, to the commanders

of his army at Tyre, with orders to assist Herod in the execution

of a very just design of his. Now when Cassius had taken Lao-

dicea, they all went together to him, and carried him garlands

and money; and Herod thought that Malichus might be punish­

ed while he was there; but he was somewhat apprehensive of

the thing, and designed to make some great attempt, and because

his son was then an hostage at Tyre, he went to that city, and

resolved to steal him away privately, and to march thence into

Judea; and as Cassius was in haste to march against Antony, he

thought to bring the country to revolt, and to procure the go­

vernment for himself. But providence opposed his counsels;

and Herod being a shrewd man, and perceiving what his inten­

tion was, he sent thither beforehand a servant, in appearance

indeed to get a supper ready, for he had said before, that he

would feast them all there, but in reality to the commanders of

the army, whom he persuaded to go out against Malichus, with

their daggers. So they went out and met the man near the city,

upon the seashore, and stabbed him. Whereupon Hyrcanus

was so astonished at what had happened, that his speech failed

him; and when, after some difficulty, he had recovered himself

he asked Herod, what the matter could be, and who it was that

slew Malichus? and when he said that it was done by the com­

mand of Cassius, he commended the action; for that Malichus

was a very wicked man, and one that conspired against his own

country. And this was the punishment that was inflicted on

Malichus for what he wickedly did to Antipater.

7. But when Cassius was marched out of Syria, disturbances

arose in Judea: for Felix, who was left at Jerusalem with an

army, made a sudden attempt against Phasaelus, and the people

themselves rose in arms; but Herod went to Fabius, the prelect

of Damascus, and was desired to run to his brother's assistance,

but was hindered by a distemper that seized upon him, till Pha­

saelus by himself had been too hard for Felix, and had shut him

VOL. II. O O 23

