246. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEMS. Book XIII.

ing cities that had belonged to the Syrians, and Idumeans, and

Phenicians; at the sea side, Strato's Tower, Apollonia, Joppa,

Jamnia, Ashdod, Gaza, Anthedon, llnphia, and llhinoculura; in

the middle of the country, near to Idumea, Adora, and Marissa;

near the country of Samaria, Mount Carmel, and Mount Tabor,

Scythopolis, and Gardara; of the country of Gaulonites, Selucia,

and Gabala; in the country of Moab, Heshbon and Medaba,

.Lemba, and Oronas, Gelithon, Zara, the valley of the Celices,

and Pella; which last they utterly destroyed, because its * in­

habitants would not bear to change their religious rites for

those peculiar to the Jews. The Jews also possessed others of

the principal cities in Syria, which had been destroyed.

5. After this, king Alexander, although he fell into a distem­

per by hard drinking, and had a quartan ague, which held him

three years, yet would not leave off going out with his army,

till he was quite spent with the labours he had undergone, and

died in the bounds of Regaba, a fortress beyond Jordan. But

when his queen saw that he was ready to die, and had no longei

any hopes of surviving, she came to him weeping and lamenting,

and bewailed herself, and her sons, on the desolate condition they

should be left in: and said to him, " To whom dost thou thus

"leave me and my children, who are destitute of all other sup-

"ports, and this when thou knowest how much ill-will thy na-

"tion bears thee?" But he gave her the following advice, " That

"she need but follow what he would suggest to her, in order

"to retain the kingdom securely, with her children, that she

*' should conceal his death from the soldiers till she should have  
"taken that place; after this she should go in triumph, as upon

"a victory, to Jerusalem, and put some of her authority into

"the hands of the Pharisees, for that they would commend her

"for the honour she had done them, and would reconcile the na-

"tion to her; for he told her, they had great authority among the

"Jews, both to do hurt to such as they hated, and to bring advan-

"tages to those to whom they weie friendly disposed, for that they

"are then believed best of all by the multitude when they speak

"any severe thing against others, though it be only out of envy

"at them. And he said, that it was by their means that he had

"incurred the displeasure of the nation, whom indeed he had in­

* We may here, and elsewhere, take notice, that whatever countries or cities, the  
Asamonians conquered from any of the neighbouring nations, or whatever coun­

tries or cities they gained from them, that had not belonged to them before,
they,

after the days of Hyrcanus, compelled the inhabitants to leave their idolatry,
and

entirely to receive the law of Moses, as proselytes of justice, or else banish
them

into other lands. That excellent prince, John Hyrcanus, did it to the
Idumeans,

aft I have noted on ch. ix. sect, 1. already, who lived then in the promised
land, and

this I suppose justly; but by what right the rest did it, even to the
countries or

cities that were no part of that land, I do not at all knew. Thii look* too
like un­

just persecution for religion.

