p. \y. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 59

siah did not admit of this advice of Neco's, but put himself into

tt posture to hinder him from this intended march. 1 suppose it

was fate that pushed him on to this conduct, that it might take

an occasion against him ; for as he was setting his * army in ar

ray, and rode about in his chariot, from one wing of his army

to another, one of the Egyptians shot an arrow at him, and put

an end to his eagerness of fighting: for being sorely wounded, he

commanded a retreat to be sounded for his army, and returned

to Jerusalem, and died of that wound; and was magnificently

buried in the sepulchre of his fathers, when he had lived thirty-

nine years, and of them had reigned thirty-one. But all the

people mourned greatly for him, lamenting and grieving on his

account many days: and Jeremiah the prophet f composed

an elegy to lament him, which is extant till this time also. More­

over, this prophet denounced beforehand the sad calamities that

were coming upon the city. He also left behind him in writing

a description of that destruction of our nation which has lately

happened in our days, and the taking of Babylon; nor was he

the only prophet who delivered such predictions beforehand to

the multitude, but so did Ezekiel tdso, who was the first person

that wrote, and left behind him in writing two books concern­

ing these events. Now these two prophets were priests by birth;

but of them Jeremiah dwelt in Jerusalem, from the thirteenth

year of the reign of Josiah, until the city and temple were utter­

ly destroyed. However as to what befell this prophet, we will

relate it in its proper place.

2. Upon the death of Josiah, which we have already mention­

ed, his son, Jehoahaz by name, took the kingdom : being about

twenty-three years old: He reigned in Jerusalem; and his mo­

ther was Hamutal, of the city Libnah. He was an impious man,

and impure in his course of life; but as the king of Egypt re­

turned from the battle, he sent for Jehoahaz to come to him, to

the city called J Hamath, which belongs to Syriaj and when ha

was come, he put him in bonds, and delivered the kingdom to a

brother of his, by the father's side whose name was Eliakim, and

* This battle is justly esteemed the very same that Herodotus, B. II. § 156. men­  
tions, when hi- says, that "Neco joined battle with the Syrians [or Jews] at
Mag-

dolum (Megiddo,) nnd beat them,".as Dr. Hudson here observes.

f Whether Josephus, from 2 Chrou. XXXT. 25. here means the book of the La­

mentations of Jeremiah, still extant, which chiefly belongs to the destruction
of Je­

rusalem under Nebuchadnezzar, or to any other like melancholy poem now lost,
but

extant in the days of Josephus, belonging peculiarly to Josiah, cannot now be
deter­

mined.

} This ancient city Hamath, which is joined with Arpad, or Aradus, and with
Oa-

matcus, 2 Kings xviii. 18. Isa. xxxvi. 19. Jer. xlix. 23. cities of Syria and
Fhenicia

near the borders of Judea, was also itself evidently near the same borders
though long

age* utterly destroyed.

VOL. II. Ii 17

