86 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book X.

it was not their hunger, which had been a little before satisfied

with abundance of flesh, but the wickedness of these men that

provoked them [to destroy the princes]; for if it so please God,

that wickedness might, by even those irrational creatures, be

esteemed a plain foundation for their punishment.

7. When therefore those that had intended thus to destroy Da­

niel by treachery, were themselves destroyed, king Darius sent

[letters] over all the country, and praised that God whom Da­

niel worshipped; and said, That "he was the only true God,

"and had all power." He had also Daniel in very great esteem,

and made him the principal of his friends. Now when Daniel

'was become so illustrious and famous, on account of the opinion

men had that he was beloved of God, he built a tower at Ecba-

tana in Media: it was a most elegant building, and wonderfully

made, and it is still remaining, and preserved to this day; and

to such as see it, it appears to have been lately built, and to

have been no older than that very day when any one looks upon

it, it is * so fresh, flourishing, and beautiful, and no way grown

old in so long time, for buildings suffer the same as men do, they

grow old as well as they, and by numbers of years their strength

is dissolved, and their beauty withered. Now they bury the

kings of Media, of Persia, and Parthia, in this tower to this day;

and he who was entrusted with the care of it, was a Jewish priest;

which thing is also observed to this day: But it is fit to give an

account of what this man did, which is most admirable to hear,

for he was so happy as to have strange revelations made to him,

and those as to one of the greatest of the prophets, insomuch,

that while he was alive he had the esteem and applause both of

the kings and of the multitude, and now he is dead, he retains

a remembrance that will never fail, for the several books that

he wrote and left behind him are still read by us till this time,

and from them we believe that Daniel conversed with God;

for he did not only prophesy of future events, as did the other

prophets, but he also determined the time of their accomplish­

ment: And while prophets used to foretel misfortunes, and on

that account were disagreeable both to the kings and to the mul­

titude, Daniel was to them a prophet of good things, and this

to such a degree, that by the agreeable nature of his predictions,

he procured the good-will pf all men, and by the accomplish-

* What Josephus here sayn, that the stones of the sepulchres of the kings of Per­  
sia at this tower, or those perhaps of the same sort that are now commonly
called

the ruins of Persepolis, continued so entire and unaltered in his days, as if
they were

lately put there, " I, says Reland, here can show to he .true, as to those
stones of

"the Persian kings' mausoleum which Corn. Brunius brake off and gave me." He

ascrjbed this to the hardness of the stone, which scarcely yields to iron
tools, an)

proves frequently too hard fur cutting by the chissel, but oftentimes breaks
intt

pieces.

