228 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. BookXill.

would not receive him. He went thence to Tyre, and was there

caught; and when he had suffered much from his enemies before

his death, he was slain by them. So Alexander took the king­

dom, and made a league with Hyrcanus, who yet, when he af­

terward fought with Antiochus the son of Demetrius, who was

called Grypus, was also beaten in the fight, and slain.

CHAP.'X.

How, upon the quarrel between Antiochus Grypus, and Antiochus

Cyzicenus, about the kingdom, Hyrcanus took Samaria, and

utterly demolished it, - and how Hyrcanus joined himself to the

sect of the Sadducees, and left that of the Pharisees.

§ 1. \VHEN Antiochus had taken the kingdom, he was a-

fraid to make war against Judea, because he heard that his bro­

ther, by the same mother, who was also called Antiochus, was

raising an army against him out cf Cyzicum, so he staid in his

own land, and resolved to prepare himself for the attack he ex­

pected from his brother, who was called Cyzicenus, because he

had been brought up in that city. He was the son of Antiochus

that was called Soter, who died in Parthia. He was the bro­

ther of Demetrius, the father of Grypus, for it had so happened,

that one and the same Cleopatra was married to two, who were

brethren, as we have related elsewhere. But Antiochus Cyzi­

cenus coming into Syria, continued many years at war with his

brother. Now Hyrcanus lived all this while in peace; for after

the death of Antiochus, he * revolted from the Macedonians,

nor did he any longer pay them the least regard, either as their

subject or their friend, but his affairs were in a very improving

and flourishing condition in the times of Alexander Zebina, and

especially under these brethren, for the war which they had

with one another gave Hyrcanus the opportunity of enjoying

himself in Judea quietly, insomuch that he got an immense

quantity of money. However, when Antiochus Cyzicenus dis­

tressed his land, he then openly showed what he meant. And

when he saw that Antiochus was destitute of Egyptian auxiliaries,

and that both he and his brother were in an ill condition in the

struggles they had with one another, he despised them both.

2. So he made an expedition against Samaria, which was a

very strong city; of whose present name Sebaste, and its re­

building by Herod, we shall speak at a proper time: but he made

* Dean Prideaux lakes notice at the year 130, that Justin, in agreement with  
Josephus, says, "The power of the Jews was now grown so great, that after this

"Antiochus, they woutd not bear any Macedonian king over them, and that they

"Se't up a government of their own, and infested Syria with groat wars."

