Chap. IX. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 225

hostages, and five hundred talents of silver, of which they paid

down three hundred, and sent the hostages immediately, which

king Antiochus accepted. One of those hostages was Hyr-

canus' brother; but still he broke down the fortifications that

encompassed the city: and upon these conditions Antiochus

broke up the siege and departed.

4. But Hyrcanus opened the sepulchre of David, who excel­

led all other kings in riches, and took out of it three thousand

talents. He was also the first of the Jews that, relying on this

wealth, maintained foreign troops. There was also a league of

friendship and mutual assistance made between them: Upon

which Hyrcanus admitted him into the city, and furnished him

with whatsoever his army wanted in great plenty, and with

great generosity, and marched along with him when he made an

expedition against the Parthians; of which Nicolaus of Damas­

cus is a witness for us; who in his history writes thus: " When

"Antiochus had erected a trophy at the river Lycus, upon his

"conquest of Indates, the general of the Parthians, he stayed

"there two days. It was at the desire of Hyrcanus the Jew, be-

"cause it was such a festival derived to them from their fore-

"fathers, whereon the law of the Jews did not allow them to

"travel." And truly he did not speak falsely in saying so;

for that festival, which we call Pentecost, did then fall out to

be the next day to the Sabbath: nor is it * lawful for us to jour­

ney, either on the Sabbath day, or on a festival day. But when

Antiochus joined battle with Arsaces, the king of Parthia, he

lost a great part of his army, and was himself slain: and his

brother Demetrius succeeded in the kingdom of Syria by the

permission of Arsaces, who freed hinvfrom his captivity, at the

same time that Antiochus attacked Parthia, as we have formerly

related elsewhere.

CHAP. IX.

How, after the death of Antiochus, Hyrcanus made an expedi­

tion against Syria, and made a league with the Romans. Con­

cerning the death of king Demetrius and Alexander.

$ 1. JJUT when Hyrcanus heard of the death of Antiochus,

he presently made an expedition against the cities of Syria,

hoping to find them destitute of fighting men, and of such as

were able to defend them. However, it was not till the sixth

month that he took Medaba, and that not without the great dis­

* The Jews were not to inarch or journey on the Sabbath, or on such a great fes­  
tival as was equivalent to the Sabbath, any farther than a Sabbath day's
journey, or

200O cubits, see the note on Antiq. B. XX. ch. vii. sect. 6. vol. Ill

