Chap. IV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 261

venth day, this bank could never have been perfected, by rea­

son of the opposition the Jews would have made; for though

our laws give us leave then to defend ourselves against those

that began to fight with us, and assault us, yet it does not

permit us to meddle with our enemies while they do any thing -

else.

3. Which thing when the Romans understood, on those days

which we call Sabbaths, they threw nothing at the Jews, nor

came to any pitched battle with them, but raised up their

earthen banks, and brought their engines into such forwardness

that they might do execution the following days. And any one

may hence learn how very great piety we exercise towards God,

and the observance of his laws, since the priests were not at all

hindered from their sacred ministrations, by their fear during this

siege, but did still twice a-day, in the morning, and about the

ninth hour, offer their sacrifices, on the altar; nor did they

omit those sacrifices, if any melancholy accident happened, by

the stones that were thrown among them; for although the city

was taken on * the third month, on the day of the fast, upon

the hundred seventy-ninth olympiad, when Caius Antonius and

Marcus Tullius Cicero, were consuls, and the enemy then fell

upon them, and cut the throats of those that were in the tem­

ple, yet could not those that offered the sacrifice be compelled

to run away, neither by the fear they were in of their own lives,

nor by the number that were already slain, as thinking it bet­

ter to suffer whatever came upon them, at their very altars,

than to omit any thing that their laws required of them. And

that this is not a mere brag, or an encomium to manifest a de­

gree of our piety that was false, but is the real truth; I appeal

to those that have written of the acts of Pompey: and among

them, to Strabo and Nicolaus [of Damascus ;3 and besides these

two, Titus Livius, the writer of the Roman history, who will

bear witness to this thing.f

4. But when the battering engine was brought near, the great-

* That is on the 23d of Sivan, the annual fast for the defection and idolatry of  
Jeroboam, who made Israel to sin; or possibly some other fast might fall into
that

month, before and in the days of Josephus.

')- It deserves htre to be noted, that this Pharisaical superstitious notion,
that of­

fensive Bghting was unlawful to Jews, even under the utmost necessity, on the
Sab-

batl) day; of which we hear nothing before the times of the Maccabees, was thd

proper occasion of Jerusalem's being taken by Pompey, Sosius, and by Titus, as

appears from the places already quoted in the note on Antiq. B. XIII. ch. viii
sect . 1.

winch scrupulous superstition, as to the observation of such a rigorous rest
upon the

Sabbatr* day, our Saviour always opposed, when the Pharisaical Jews insisted
on it,

as is evident in many places of the New Testament, though he still intimated
how

pernicious that superstition might prove to them in their flight from the
Romans,

Alatt. xxv. 20.

