18 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book IX.

wet cloth, in the nature of a net over him, and strangled him,

and took his dominion. He was an active man, and had the

good-will of the Syrians, and of the people of Damascus to a

great degree; by whom both Benhadad himself, and Hazael,

who ruled after him, are honoured to this day as gods by rea­

son of their benefactions, and their building them temples, by

which they adorned the city of the Damascenes. They also every

day do with great pomp pay their worship * to these kings, and

value themselves upon their antiquity; nor do they know that

these kings are much later than they imagine, and that they are

not yet eleven hundred years old. Now when Joram, the king

of Israel, heard that Benhadad was dead, he recovered out of the

terror and dread he had been in on his account, and was very

glad to live in peace.

CHAP. V.

Concerning the wickedness of Jehoram king of Jerusalem. His

defeat and death.

§ 1. Now Jehoram the king of Jerusalem, for we have said

before that he had the same name with the king of Israel, as soon

as he had taken the government upon him, betook himself to the

slaughter of his brethren, and his father's friends, who were go­

vernors under him, and thence made a beginning, and a de­

monstration of his wickedness; nor was he at all better than

those kings of Israel who at first transgressed against the laws

of their country, and of the Hebrews, and against God's

worship. And it was Athaliah, the daughter of Ahab, whom

he had married, who taught him to be a bad man in other re­

spects, and also to worship foreign gods. Now God would not

quite root out this family, because of the promise he had made

by his servant and successor Elisha: Nor does it seem to me otherwise, but
that

Benhadad immediately recovered of his disease, as the prophet foretold; and

that Hazael, upon his being anointed to succeed him, though he ought to have

staid till he died by the course of nature, or some other way of divine
punish­

ment, as did David for many years in the like case, was too impatient, and the

very next day, smothered or strangled him, in order to come directly to the
suc­

cession.

* What Mr. Le Clerc pretends here, that it i< more probable that Hazael and  
his son were worshipped by the Syrians, and people of Damascus, till the days
of

Joseplms, than Benhadad and Hazael, because under Benhadad they had greatly

suffered, and because it is almost incredible, that both a king, and that
king's

murderer should be worshipped by the same Syrians, is of little force against
those

records out of which Joscphus drew his history, especially when it is likely
that

they thought Benhadad died of the distemper he laboured under, and not by

Hazacl's treachery. Besides the reason that Josephus gives for this adoration,
and

that these two kings had been great benefactors to the inhabitants of
Damascus, and

had built them temples, is too remote from the political suspicions of Le
Clcrcj

nor ought such weak suspicions to be deemed of any force against authentic
testi­

monies of antiquity.

