138 ANTIQUITIES Of THE JEWS. Book XII.

every one of the slaves. And he promised to publish a magni­

ficent decree, about what they requested, which should confirm

what Aristeus had proposed, and especially what God willed

should be done; whereby he said, he would not only set those

free who had been led away captive by his father, and his army,

but those who were in this kingdom before, and those also, if

any such there were, who had been brought away since. And

when they said that their redemption money would amount to

above four hundred talents, he granted it. A copy of which

decree I have determined to preserve, that the magnanimity of

this king may be made known. Its contents were as follows:

"Let all those who were soldiers under our father, and who,

"when they overran Syria and Phenicia, and laid waste Judea,

"took the Jews captives, and made them slaves, and brought

*' them into our cities, and into this country, and then sold  
"them; as also all those that were in my kingdom before

"them, and if there be any that have been lately brought

"thither, be made free by those that possess them; and let them

"accept of [an hundred and] twenty drachmae for every slave.

"And let the soldiers receive this redemption money with their

"pay, but the rest out of the king's treasury: for I suppose

"that they were made captives without our father's consent,

"and against equity; and that their country was harassed by

"the insolence of the soldiers, and that, by removing them into

"Egypt, the soldiers have made a great profit by them. Out of

*' regard therefore to justice, and out of pity to those that have been  
"tyrannized over, contrary to equity, I enjoin those that have

"such Jews in their service to set them at liberty, upon the

"receipt of the beforementioned sum; and that no one use any

"deceit about them, but obey what is here commanded. And

"I will, that they give in their names within three days, after

"the publication of this edict, to such as are appointed to exe-

"cute the same, and to produce the slaves before them also, for

"I think it will be for the advantage of my affairs: And let

"every one that will, inform against those that do not obey this

"decree: and I will that their estates be confiscated into the

"king's treasury." When this decree was read to the king,

it at first contained the rest that is here inserted, and omitted

only those Jews that had formerly been brought, and those

brought afterwards, which had not been distinctly mentioned,

so he added these clauses out of his humanity, and with great

generosity. He also gave order, that the payment, which was

likely to be done in a hurry, should be divided among the king's

ministers, and among the officers of his treasury. When this

was over, what the king had decreed was -quickly brought to a

conclusion; and this in no more than seven days' time, the num­

