172 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XII.

ing his soldiers, he perceived that his treasures were deficient,

and there was a want of money in them, for all the taxes were

not paid, by reason of the seditions there had been among the

nations, he having been so magnanimous and so liberal, that what

he had was not sufficient for him, he therefore resolved first to

go into Persia, and collect the taxes of that country. Hereupon

he left one whose name was Lysias, who was in great repute

with him, governor of the kingdom, as far as the bounds of

Egypt, and of the lower Asia, and reaching from the river Eu­

phrates, and committed to him a certain part of his forces, and

of his elephants, and charged him to bring up his son Antiochus

with all possible care, until he came back; and that he should

conquer Judea, and take its inhabitants for slaves, and utterly

destroy Jerusalem, and abolish the whole nation. And when

king Antiochus had given these things in charge to Lysias, he

went into Persia: and in the hundred and forty-seventh year

he passed over Euphrates, and went to the superior provinces.

3. Upon this Lysias chose Ptolemy, the son of Dorymenes,

and Nicanor, and Gorgias, very potent men among the king's

friends, and delivered to them forty thousand foot soldiers, and

seven thousand horsemen, and sent them against Judea, who came

as far as the city Emmaus, and pitched their camp in the plain

country. There came also to them auxiliaries out of Syria, and

the country round about; as also many of the runagate Jews.

And besides these came some merchants to buy those that should

be carried captives, (having bonds with them to bind those that

should be made prisoners), with that silver and gold which they

were to pay for their price. And when Judas saw their camp,

and how numerous their enemies were, he persuaded his own

sbldiers to be of good courage; and exhorted them to place their

hopes of victory in God, and to make supplication to him, accord­

ing to the custom of their country, clothed in sackcloth; and to

show what was their usual habit of supplication in the greatest

dangers, and thereby to prevail with God to grant you the vic­

tory over your enemies. So he set them in their ancient order

of battle used by their forefathers, under their captains of thou­

sands, and other officers; and dismissed such as were newly mar­

ried, as well as those that had newly gained possessions; that they

might not fight in a cowardly manner, out of an inordinate love

of life, in order to enjoy those blessings. When he had thus dis­

posed his soldiers, he encouraged them to fight by the following

speech, which he made to them: "O my fellow-soldiers, no

"other tune remains more opportune than the present for cou-

"rage, and contempt of dangers; for if you now fight manfully

"you may recover your liberty, which, as it is a tiiing of

"itself agreeable to all men, so it proves to be to us, much more

