Chap. IV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 17

their former miseries, but had such plenty, that two seahs of

barley were bought for a shekel, and a seah of fine fkur for a

shekel, according to the prophecy of Elisha. Now a seah is

equal to an Italian modius and a half. The captain of the third

band was the only man that received no benefit by this plenty;

for as he was appointed by the king to oversee the gate, that he

might prevent the too great a crowd of the multitude, that they

might not endanger one another and perish, by treading on one

another in the press, he suffered himself in that very way, and

died in that very manner, as Elisha had foretold such his death,

when he alone of them all disbelieved what he said concerning

that plenty of provisions which they should soon have.

6. Hereupon, when Benhadad, the king of Syria, had escaped

to Damascus, and understood that it was God himself that cast

all his army into this fear and disorder, and that it did not arise

from the invasion of enemies, he was mightily cast down at his

having God so greatly for his enemy, and fell into a distemper.

Now it happened that Elisha the prophet, at that time, was

gone out of his own country to Damascus, of which Benhadad

was informed; he sent Hazael, the most faithful of all his ser­

vants to meet him, and to carry him presents, and bade him in­

quire of him about his distemper, and whether he should escape

the danger that it threatened. So Hazael came to Elisha with

forty camels, that carried the best and most precious fruits that

the country of Damascus afforded, as well as those which the

king's palace supplied. He saluted him kindly, and said, That

"he was sent to him by king Benhadad, and brought presents

"with him, in order to inquire concerning his distemper, whe-

"ther he should recover from it or not?" Whereupon the

prophet bid him tell the king no melancholy news, but still he

said he would die. So, the king's servant was troubled to hear

it; and Elisha wept also, and his tears ran down plenteously at

his foresight of what miseries his people would undergo after

the death of Benhadad. And when Hazael asked, what was

the occasion of this confusion he was in? he said, That " he

"wept out of his commiseration for the multitude of the Israel-

"ites, and what terrible miseries they will suffer by thee; for

"thou wilt slay the strongest of them, and will burn their

"strongest cities, and will destroy their children, and dash them

"against the stones, and will rip up their women with child."

And when' Hazael said, "How can it be that I should have

"power enough to do such things? the prophet replied, "That

"God had informed him that he should be king of Syria." So

when Ha?ael was come to Benhadad, he told him good news

concerning his distemper; * but on the next day he spread a

Since Elijah did not live to anoint Hazaei king of Syria himself, as h

snpowored to do, 1 Kings xix. 15. it was most probably now done, iu bis

