316 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIV.

he not treat him as if he were a woman, by letting him go at

liberty, but put him into bonds and kept him in close custody.

3. And now Herod having overcome his enemies, his care was

to govern those foreigners who had been his assistants, for the

crowd of strangers rushed to see the temple, and the sacred things

in the temple, but the king thinking a victory to be a more se­

vere affliction than a defeat, if any of those things which it was

not lawful to see should be seen by them, used entreaties and

threatenings, and even sometimes, force itself, to restrain them.

He also prohibited the ravage that was made in the city, and

many times asked Sosius, whether the Romans would empty the

city both of money and men, and leave him king of a desert? and

told him, that he esteemed the dominion over the whole habit­

able earth as by no means an equivalent satisfaction for such a

murder of his citizens; and when he said, that this plunder was

iustly to be permitted the soldiers, for the siege they had under­

gone, he replied, that he would give every one their reward out

of his own money, and by this means he redeemed what remain­

ed of the city from destruction; and he performed what he had

promised him, for he gave a noble present to every soldier, and a

proportionable present to their commanders, but a most royal

present to Sosius himself, till they all went away full of money.

4. This * destruction befell the city of Jerusalem when Marcus

Agrippa, and Caninius Gallus were consuls of Rome, on the

hundred eighty and fifth Olympiad, on the third month, on the

* Note here, that Josephus fully and frequently assures us that there passed above  
three years between Herod's first obtaining the kingdom at Rome, and his
second

obtaining it upon the taking of Jerusalem, and death of Antigonus. The present

history of this interval twice mentions the army's going into winter quarters,
which

perhaps belonged to two several winters, ch. xv. sect. 3, 4. and though
Josephus says

nothing how long they lay in those quarters, yet does he give such an account
of the

long and studied delays of Ventidius Silo, and Macherus, who were to see Herod

settled in his new kingdom, but seem not to have had sufficient forces for
that pur­

pose, and were for certain all corrupted by Antigonus to make the longest
delays

possible, and give us such particular accounts of the many great actions of
Herod's

during the same interval, as fairly imply that interval before Herod went to
Samo­

sata, to have been very considerable. However, what is wanting in Josephus, is
ful­

ly supplied by Moses Chorenensis, the Armenian historian, in his history of
that

interval, B. II. ch. xviii. where he directly assures us, that Tigranes, then
king of

Armenia, and the principal manager of this Parthian war, reigned two years
after

Herod was made king at Rome, and yet Antony did not hear of his death, in that

very neighbourhood, at Samosata, till he was come thither to besiege it; after
which

Herod brought him an army, which was 340 miles march, and through a difficult

country, full of enemies also, and joined with him in the siege of Samosata
till that

city was taken: then Herod and Sosius march back with their large armies the
seme

number of 540 miles, and when in a little time, they sat down to besiege
Jerusalem,

they were not able to take it but by a siege of five months. All which put
together-

fulty supplies what is wanting in Josephus, and secures the entire chronology
ol

these times beyond contradiction.

