170' ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. BookXJI.

3. But when he had ruled one year, and was fallen into a dis­

temper, he called for his sons, and set them round about him, and

said, " O my sons, I am going the way of all the earth, and I

"recommend to you my resolution, and beseech you not to be

"negligent in keeping it, but to be mindful of the desires of him

"who begat you, and brought you up, and to preserve the cus-

"toms of your country, and to recover your ancient form of gov-

"ernment, which is in danger of being overturned, and not to

"be carried away with those that, either by their own inclina-

"tion, or out of necessity, betray it, but to become such sons as

"are worthy of me; to be above all force and necessity, and so

"to dispose your souls, as to be ready, when itshall be necessary,

"to die for your laws, as sensible of this by just reasoning, that

"if God see that you are so disposed he will not overlook you,

"but will have a great value for your virtue, and will restore

"to you again what you have lost, and will return to you that

"freedom in which you shall live quietly, and enjoy your own

"customs. Your bodies are mortal, and subject to fate, but

"they receive a sort of immortality, by the remembrance of

"what actions they have done. And I would have you so in

"love with this immortality, that you may pursue after glory;

"and that, when you have undergone the greatest difficulties,

"you may not scruple, for such things, to lose your lives. 1

"exhort you, especially, to agree one with another; and in what

"excellency any one of you exceeds another, to yield to him so

"far, and by that means to reap the advantage of every one's own

"virtues. Do you then esteem Simon as your father, because

"he is a man of extraordinary prudence, and to be governed

"by him in what counsels he gives you. Take Maccabeus

"for the general of your army, because of his courage and

"strength, for he will avenge your nation, and will bring ven-

"geance on your enemies. Admit among you the righteous

"and religious, and augment their power."

4. When Mattathias had thus discoursed to his sons, and had

prayed to God to be their assistant, and to recover to the people

their former constitution, he died a little afterward, and was

buried at Modin; all the people making great lamentation for

him. Whereupon his son Judas took upon him the administra­

tion of public affairs, in the hundred forty and sixth year: and

thus by the ready assistance of his brethren, and of others, Judas

cast their enemies out of the country, and put those of their own

country to death who had transgressed its laws, and purified the

land of all the pollutions that were in it.

