Chap. XV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 313

away: * and as the houses were full of armed men, and many

of them ran as far as the tops of the houses, he got them under

his power, and pulled down the roofs of the houses, and saw the

lower rooms full of soldiers that were caught, and lay all on a

heap: so they threw stones down upon them as they lay piled

one upon another, and thereby killed them: nor was there a

more frightful spectacle in all the war than this, where beyond

the walls an immense multitude of dead men lay heaped one up­

on another. This action it was which chiefly broke the spirits

of the enemy, who expected now what would come, for there

appeared a mighty number of people that came from places far

distant, that were now about the village, but then ran away;

and had it not been for the depth of winter, which then re­

strained them, the king's army had presently gone to Jerusalem,

as being very courageous at this good success, and the whole

work had been done immediately, for Antigonus was already

looking about how he might fly away, and leave the city.

13. At this time the king gave order that the soldiers should

go to supper, for it was late at night, while he went into a

chamber to use the bath, for he was very weary: and here it

was that he was in the greatest danger, which yet, by God's

providence, he escaped; for as he was naked, and had but one

servant that followed him, to be with him while he was bathing

in an inner room, certain of the enemy, who were in their ar­

mour, and had fled thither out of fear, were then in the place;

and as he was bathing, the first of them came out with his na­

ked sword drawn, and went out at the doors, and after him a

second and third, armed in like manner, and were under such

a consternation, that they did no hurt to the king, and thought

themselves to have come off7 very well in suffering no harm

themselves, in their getting out of the house. However, on the

next day, he cut oft' the head of Pappus, for he was already

slain, and sent it to Pheroras, as a punishment of what their

brother had suffered by his means, for he was the man that slew

him with his own hand.

14. When the rigour of winter was over, Herod removed his

army, and came near to Jerusalem, and pitched his camp hard

by the city. Now this was the third year since he had been

made king at Rome; and as he removed his camp, and came

near that part of the wall where it could be most easily assaulted,

* It may be worth our observation here, that these soldiers of Herod's could  
not have gotten upon the tops of these houses, "which were full of enemies, in
or­

der to pull up the upper floors, and destroy them beneath, but on ladders from

the outside; which illustrates some texts in the New Testament, by which it
ap­

pears that men used to ascend thither by ladders on the euuides. See Mai t.
xxiv

'17. Mark xiii. 15. Luke v. 13. xvii. 31.

