S?4« ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book X.

good and a just man to give what he had promised, although the

events were of n melancholy nature. Accordingly, the king de­

termined so to do. Now after a little while, both himself, and

the city, were taken by Cyrus, the king of Persia, who fought

against him j for it was Baltasar, under whom Babylon was

taken, when he had reigned seventeen years. And this is the

cud of the posterity of king Nebuchadnezzar, as history informs

us; but when Babylon was taken by Darius, and when he,

with his kinsman Cyrus, had put an end to the dominion of the

Babylonians, he was sixty-two years old. He wag the sou of

Astyages, and had another name among the Greeks. More­

over, he took Daniel the prophet, and carried him with him

into Media, and honoured hirti very greatly, and kept him'with

him; for he was one of the three presidents whom he set over

his three hundred and sixty provinces, for into so many did

Darius part them.

5. However, while Daniel was in so great a dignity, and in so

great favour with Darius, and was alone intrusted with every

thing by him, as having somewhat divine in him, he was envied

by the rest; for those that see others in greater honour than

themselves with kings, envy- them: and when those that

were grieved at the great favour Daniel was in with Da­

rius, sought for au occasion against him, he afforded them

no occasion at all, for he was above all the temptations of

money, and despised bribery, and esteemed it a very base thing

to take any thing by way of reward, even when it might be

justly given him, he afforded those that envied him not the least

handle for an accusation. So when they could find nothing for

which they might calumniate him to the king; nothing that was

shameful or reproachful, and thereby deprive him of the hon­

our he was in with him, they sought for some other method

whereby they might destroy him. When therefore they saw

'that Dani«l prayed to God three times a-day, they thought they

had gotten an occasion by which they might ruin him; so they

came to Darius, and told him, That "the princes and governors

"had thought proper to allow the multitude a relaxation for

"thirty days, that no one might offer a petition or prayer either

"to himself, or to the gods, but that he who shall transgress this

"decree shall 'be cast into the den of lions, and there perish."

6. Whereupon, the king, being not acquainted with their

wicked design, nor suspecting that it was a contrivance of theirs

against Daniel, said, he was pleased with this decree of theirs,

and he promised to confirm what they "desired; he also published

an edict to promulgate to the people that decree which the princes

had made. Accordingly, all the rest took care not to transgress

those injunctions, and rested in quiet; but Daniel had no regard

