Chap. XVI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 251

nil parts, insomuch that he had a kind of royal attendants about

him; for in a little more than fifteen days, he got twenty-two

strong places, which gave him the opportunity of raising an ar­

my from Libanus and Trachonitis, and the monarchs: for men

are easily led by the greater number, and easily submit to them.

And besides this, that by affording him their assistance, when he

could not expect it, they, as well as he, should have the advan­

tages that would come by his being king, because they had been

the occasion of his gaining the kingdom. Now the elders of

the Jews, and Hyrcanus with them, went in unto the queen,

and desired, "That she would give them her sentiments about

"the present posture of affairs, for that Aristobulus was in ef-

"feet lord of almost all the kingdom, by possessing of so many

"strong holds, and that it was absurd for them to take any

"counsel by themselves, how ill soever she were, whilst she

"was alive, and that the danger would be upon them in no

"long time." But she " bid them do what they thought pro-

"per to be done: that they had many circumstances in their

"favour still remaining, a nation in good heart, an army, and

"money in their several treasuries, for that she had small con-

"cern about public affairs now, when the strength of her body

"already failed her."

6. Now a little while after she had said this to them, she died,

when she had reigned nine years, and had in all lived seventy-

three. A woman she was who showed no signs of the weakness

of her sex, for she was sagacious to the greatest degree in her

ambition of governing, and demonstrated by her doings at once,

that her mind was fit for action, and that sometimes men them-:

selves show the little understanding they have by the frequent

mistakes they make in point of government; for she always pre­

ferred the present to futurity, and preferred the power of an im­

perious dominion above all things, and in comparison of that had

no regard to what was good, or what was right. However, she

brought the affairs of her house to such an unfortunate condition,

that she was the occasion of the taking away that authority from

it, and that in no long time afterward, which she had obtained by

a vast number of hazards and misfortunes, and this out of a de­

sire of what does not belong to a woman, and all by a compliance

in her sentiments with those that bare ill-will to their family,

and by leaving the administration, destitute of a proper support

of great men: and indeed, her management during her adminis­

tration, while she was alive, was such, as filled the palace after

her death, with calamities and disturbance. However, although

this had been her way of governing, she preserved the nation

in peace. And this is the conclusion of the affairs of Alexandra.

VOL. 41. II 33

