Chap. II. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 113

"sonable superstition." This is what Agathafchides relates of

our nation. But when Ptolemy had taken a great many cap-*

tives, both from the mountainous parts of Judea, and from the

places about Jerusalem and Samaria, and the places near mount

Gerizzim, he led them all into *Egypt^ and settled them there^

And as he knew that the people of Jerusalem were f most faith­

ful in the observation of oaths and covenants; and this from-

the answer they made to Alexander, when he sent an ambassage

to them, after he had beaten Darius in battle; so he distributed

many of them into garrisons, and at Alexandria gave them-

equal privileges of citizens with the Macedonians themselves; and

required of them to take their oaths, that they would keep their

fidelity to the posterity of those who committed these places

to their care. Nay, there were not a few other Jews, who, of

their own accord, went into Egypt, as invited by the goodness

of the soil, and by the liberality of Ptolemy. How'ever, there

were disorders among their posterity, with relation to the Sa­

maritans, on account of their resolution to preserve that con­

duct of life which was delivered to them by their forefathers,

and they thereupon contended one with another; while those of

Jerusalem said, that their temple was holy, and resolved to send

their sacrifices thither; but the Samaritans were resolved that

they should be sent to mount Gerizzim.

CHAP. II.

How Ptolemy Philadelphia procured the laws of the Jews to be

translated into the Greek tongue ,' and set many captives free /

and dedicated many gifts to God.

§ 1. \\ HEN Alexander had reigned twelve years, and af­

ter him Ptolemy Soter forty years, Philadelphus then took

* The great number of the Jews and Samaritans that were formerly carried into  
Egypt by Alexander, and now by Ptolemy the son of Lagus, appear afterwards in

Ihe vast multitude, who, as we shall see presently, were soon ransomed hy
Phila­

delphus, and by him made free, before he sent for the seventy-two
interpreters: in

the many garrisons, and oilier soldiers of that nation in Egypt; in the famous
set­

tlement of Jews, and the number of their synagogues at Alexandria, long
afterward;

and in the vehement contention between the Jews and Samaritans under
Philometer,

about the place appointed for public worship in the law of Moses: whether at
the

Jewish temple at Jerusalem, or at the Samaritans temple at Gerizzim: of all
which

our author treats hereafter. And as to the Samaritans carried into Egypt under

the same princes, Scaliger supposes, that these who have a great synagogue at
Cairo,

as also those whom the Arabic geographer speaks of, as having seized on an
island

in the Red Sea, are remains of them at this very day, as the notes here inform
us.

f Of the sacrednesa of oaths among the Jews in the Old Testament, see
Scripture

Politics, p. 54,65.

