Chap. X. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS, 77

'" excellent iii themselves, to be put to death, when thou cnjoinedst

"them to do what was entirely above the reach of human wis-

"dom, and requiredst of them what was the work only of God.

"Wherefore, as thou in thy sleep was solicitous concerning those

"that should succeed thee in the government of the whole

"world, God was desirous to show thee all those that should

"reign after thee, and to that end exhibited to thee the follow-

"ing drtam: Thou seemedst to see a great image standing be-

"fore thee, the head of which proved to be of gold, the shoulders

"and arms of silver, and the belly and thethighs of brass, but the

"legs and the feet of iron ; after which thou sawest a stone bro-

"ken off from a mountain, which fell upon the image and threw

"it down and brake it to pieces, and did not permit any part of

"it to remain whole, but the gold, the silver, the iron, and die

"brass, became smaller than meal, which upon the blast of a vio-

"lent wind, was by force carried away, and scattered abroad,

"but the stone did increase to such a degree, that the whole earth

"beneath it seemed to be filled therewith. This is the dream

"which thou sawest, and its interpretation is as follows: The

"head of gold denotes thee, and the kings of Babylon that have

"been before theej but the two hands and arms signify this,

"that your government shall be dissolved by two kings.; but an-

*' other king that shall come from the west, armed with brass,  
"shall destroy that government; and another government that

"shall be like unto iron shall put an end to the power of the far-

"mer, and shall have dominion over all the earth, on account <«

"the nature of iron, which is stronger than that of gold, of sil-

"ver, and of brass." Daniel did also declare the meaning of

the * stone to the king, but I do not think proper to relate it, since

I have only undertaken to describe things past or things present,

-tut not things that are future-: yet if any one be so .very-.desi­  
rous of knowing truth, as not to wave such points of .curiosity,

and cannot curb his inclination for understanding the uncertain­

ties of futurity, and whether they will happen or not,'let him be

diligent in reading the book of Daniel, .which he will find among

the sacred writings.

5. When Nebuchadnezzar heard this, and recollected his dream,

lie was astonished at the nature of Daniel, and fell upon his face,

* Of this most remarkable passage in Josophus, concerning the stone cut out nj the  
mountain, and destroyed the image, which he would not explain, hut intimated
v> be

* prophecy of futurity, and probably not safe for him to explain, as belonging to the  
destruction of the Roman empire by Jesus Christ, the true Messiah of the Jews,

tike the words of Havercamp, chap. x. sect. 4. "Nor is this to be wondei ed
at, that

"he would not now meddle with titings future, for he had no mind to provoke
the

"Romans, liy sneaking" of the destruction of that city which, tlwy calluUhe
eternal.

""

