Chap. III. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 325

in probability be better concealed in doing it, if he did it not

presently, nor immediately after what had lately happened.

3. And now, upon the approach of the feast of tabernacles,

which is a festival very much observed among us, he let those

days pass over, and both he and the rest of the people were

therein very merry; yet did the envy which at this time arose

in him, cause him to make haste to do what he was about, and

provoke him to do it: for when this youth Aristobulus, who was

now in the seventeenth year of his age; went up to the altar, ac足

cording to the law to offer the sacrifices, and this with the orna足

ments of his high priesthood, and when he * performed the sa足

cred offices, he seemed to be exceeding comely, and taller than

men usually were at that age, and to exhibit in his countenance

a great deal of that high family he was sprung from, and a warm

zeal and affection towards him appeared among the people, and

the memory of the actions of his grandfather Aristobulus, was

fresh in their minds; and their affections got so far the mastery

of them that they could not forbear to show their inclinations

to him., They at once rejoiced, and were confounded, and

mingled with good wishes their joyful acclamations which they

made to him, till the good-will of the multitude was made too

evident, and they more rashly proclaimed the happiness they had

received from his family than was fit under a monarchy to have

done. Upon all this, Herod resolved to complete what he had

intended against the young man. When therefore the festival

was over, and he was feasting at f Jericho with Alexandra, who

entertained them there, he was then very pleasant with the

young man, and drew him into a lonely place; and at the same

time played with him in a juvenile and ludicrous manner.

Now the nature of that place was hotter than ordinary; so they

went out in a body and of a sudden, and in a vein of madness;

and as they stood by the fish ponds, of which there were large

ones about the house, they went to cool themselves [by bathing]

because it was in the midst of a hot day. At first they were

only spectators of Herod's servants and acquaintance as they

were swimming, but after a while, the young man, at the in足

stigation of Herod, went into the water among them, while such

of Herod's acquaintance, as he had appointed to do it, dipped

him, as he was swimming, and plunged him under water, in the

dark of the evening, as if it had been done in sport only, nor

* This entirely confutes the Talmudists, who pretend that no one under tirmtty  
years of age could officiate as high priest among the Jews.

t A. Hebrew chronicle, cited by Reland, says, this drowning was at Jordan, not

at Ji'ric/ni, and tin's even when he quotes Josephus. 1 suspect the
transcriber of the

Hebrew chronicle mistook the nanTc, and wrote Jordan for Jcru'tia*

