238 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIII.

said, eighty thousand. He then took his army, and went to

meet Ptolemy; but Ptolemy fell upon Assochis, a city of Ga­

lilee, and took it by force on the sabbath day, and there he took

about ten thousand slaves, and a great deal of other prey.

5. He then tried to take Sepphoris, which was a city not

far from that which was destroyed, but lost many of his men;

yet did he then go to fight with Alexander, which Alexander

met him at the river Jordan, near a certain place called Sappoth,

[not far from the river Jordan,] and pitched his camp near to

the enemy. He had however eight thousand in the first rank,

which he stiled Hecatontomachi, having shields of brass. Those

in the first rank of Ptolemy's soldiers, also had shields covered

with brass: but Ptolemy's soldiers in other respects were in­

ferior to those of Alexander, and therefore were more fearful

of running hazards: but Philostephanus the camp master, put

great courage into them, and ordered them to pass the river,

which was between their camps: Nor did Alexander think fit

to hinder their passage over it, for he thought, that if the ene­

my had once gotten the river on their back, that he should the

easier take them prisoners, when they could not flee out of (he

battle: In the beginning of which, the acts on both sides, with

their hands, and with their alacrity, were alike, and a great

slaughter was made by both the armies; but Alexander was su­

perior, till Philostephanus opportunely brought up the auxili­

aries, to help those that were giving way; but as there were no

auxiliaries to afford help to that part of the Jews that gave way,

it fell out that they fled, and those near them did not assist them,

but fled along with them. However, Ptolemy's soldiers acted

quite otherwise; for they followed the Jews, and killed them,

till at length those that slew them pursued "after them, when

they had made them all run away, and slew them so long, that

their weapons of iron were blunted, and their hands quite tired

with the slaughter; for the report was, that thirty thousand

men were then slain. Timagenes says, they were fifty thousand.

As for the rest, they were part of them taken captives, and the

other part ran away to their own country.

6. After this victory, Ptolemy overran all the country;

and when night came on, he abode in certain villages of Judea,

which when he found full of women and children, he commanded

his soldiers to strangle them, and to cut them in pieces, and then

to cast them into boiling caldrons, and then to devour their

limbs as sacrifices. This commandment was given, that such

as fled from the battle, and-came to them, might suppose their

enemies were cannibals, and eat men's flesh, and might on that

account be still more terrified at them upon such a sight. And

both Strabo and Nicholaus [of Damascus] affirm, that they used

