158 ANTIQUITIES OK THE JEWS. Book XII.

He once came to Alexandria with his brother, who had along

with him a daughter already marriageable, in order to give her

in wedlock to some of the Jews of chief dignity there. He then

supped with the king, and falling in love with an actress, that

was of great beauty, and came into the room where they feasted,

he told his brother of it, and entreated him, because a Jew is

forbidden by their law to come near to a foreigner, to conceal

his offence, and to be kind and subservient to him, and to give

him an opportunity of fulfilling his desires. Upon which his

brother willingly entertained the proposal of serving him, and

adorned his own daughter, and brought her to him by night, and

put her into his bed. And Joseph, being disordered with drink,

knew not who she was, and so lay with his brother's daughter;

and this did he many times and loved her exceedingly, and said

to his brother, that he loved this actress so well, that he should

run the hazard of his life [if he must part with her,] and yet

probably the king would not give him leave [to take her with

him]. But his brother bid him be in no concern about that

matter, and told him, he might enjoy her whom he loved with­

out any danger, and might have her for his wife; and opened the

truth of the matter to him, and assured him that he chose rather to

have his own daughter abused, than to overlook him, and see him

come to [public] disgrace. So Joseph commended him for this

his brotherly love; and married his daughter; and by her begat

a son, whose name was Hyrcanus, as we said before. And when

this his youngest son showed, at thirteen years old, a mind that

was both courageous and wise, and was greatly envied by his

brethren, as being of a genius much above them, and such an one

as they might well envy, Joseph had once a min'd to know which

of his sons had the best disposition to virtue, and when he sent

them severally to those that had then the best reputation for in­

structing youth, the rest of his children, by reason of their sloth,

and unwillingness to take pains, returned to him foolish and un­

learned. After them he sent out the youngest, Hyrcanus, and

gave him three hundred yoke of oxen, and bid him go two days

journey into the wilderness, and sow the land there and yet kept

back privately the yokes of the oxen that coupled them together.

When Hyrcanus came to the place, and found he had no yokes

with him, he contemned the drivers of the oxen, who advised

him to send home to his father, to bring them some yokes; but

he thinking that he ought not to lose his time, while they should

be sent to bring him the yokes, he invented a kind of stratagem,

and what suited an age older than his own; for he slew ten yoke

of the oxen, and distributed their flesh among the labourers, and

cut their hides into several pieces, and made him yokes, and

yoked the oxen together with them; by which means he sowed

