Chap. IV. ANTIQUITIES OF THt JEWS. 203

behind them: which when Jonathan perceived, he was under

no consternation, but ordering his army to stand in a square bat足

tle array, he gave them a charge to fall on the enemy on both

sides, and set them to face those that attacked them both before

and behind: And while the fight lasted till the evening, he gave

part of his forces to his brother Simon, and ordered him to

attack the enemies, but for himself, he charged those that were

with them to cover themselves with their armour, and receive

the darts of the horsemen, who did as they were commanded;

so that the enemies' horsemen, while they threw their darts till

they had no more left, did them no harm, for the darts that were

thrown did not enter into their bodies, being thrown upon the

shields, that were united and conjoined together, the closeness

of which easily overcame the forces of the darts, and they flew

about without any effect. But when the enemy grew remiss in

throwing their darts from morning till late at night, Simon

perceived their weariness, and fell upon the body of men before

him; and because his soldiers showed great alacrity, he put the

enemy to flight, and when the horsemen saw that the footmen

ran away, neither did they stay themselves, but they being very

weary, by the duration of the fight till the evening, and their

hope from the footmen being quite gone, they basely ran away,

and in great confusion also, till they were separated one from

another, and scattered over all the plain. Upon which Jonathan

pursued them as far as Ashdod, and slew a great many of them,

and compelled the rest, in despair of escaping, to fly to the tem足

ple of Dagon, which was at Ashdod; but Jonathan took the city

on the first onset, and burnt it, and the villages about it, nor

did he abstain from the temple of Dagon itself, and burnt it al足

so, and destroyed those that had fled to it. Now the entire mul足

titude of the enemies that fell in the battle, and were> consumed

in the temple, were eight thousand. When Jonathan therefore

had overcome so great an army, he removed from Ashdod, and

came to Askelon: and when he had pitched his camp without

the city, the people of Askelon came out and met him, bringing

him hospitable presents, and honouring him; so he accepted of

their kind intentions, and returning thence to Jerusalem with a

great deal of prey, which he brought thence when he conquered

his enemies: but when Alexander heard that Apollonius the

general of his army, was beaten, he pretended to be glad of it,

because he had fought with Jonathan his friend and ally against

his directions. Accordingly, he sent to Jonathan, and gave

testimony to his worth; and gave him honorary * rewards, as a

* Dr. Hudson here observes, that the Phenicians and Romans used to reward  
such as had deserved well of them, by presenting to them a golden button. See

chap. v. sect. 4.

VOL. II. C C 21

