Chap. II. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 7

"phet, I will pray that * fire may fall from heaven, and destroy

"both the soldiers and yourself." So he prayed, and a whirl­

wind of fire [fell from heaven] and destroyed the captain, and

those that were with him. And when the king was informed

of the destruction of these men, he was very angry and sent an­

other captain with the like number of armed men that were

sent before. And when this captain also threatened the prophet,

that unless he came down of his own accord, he would take him

and carry him away; upon his prayer against him, the fire

[from heaven] slew this captain as well as the other. And when

upon inquiry, the king was informed of what happened to him,

he sent out a third captain. But when this captain, who was a

wise man, and of a mild disposition, came to the place where Eli­

jah happened to be, and spake civilly to him; and said, That" he

"knew that it was without his own consent, and only in submis-

"sion to the king's command that he came unto him; and that

"those that came before did not come willingly, but on the same

"account: He therefore desired him to have pity on those armed

"men that were with him; and that he would come down and

"follow him to the king." So Elijah accepted of his discreet

words and courteous behaviour, and came down and followed

him. And when he came to the king, he prophesied to him, and

told him, that " God said, Since thou hast despised him as not

"being God, and so unable to fortell the truth about thy distem-

"per, but has sent to the god of Ekron to inquire of him what

"will be the end of this thy distemper, know this, that thou

"shalt die."

2. Accordingly the king in a very little time died, as Elijah

had foretold; but Jehoram his brother succeeded him in the

kingdom, for he died without children: but for this Jehoram, he

* It is commonly esteemed a very cruel action of Elijah's, when ho called for »  
fire from heaven, and consumed no fewer than two cnptains and a hundred
soldiers,

and this for no other crime than obeying the orders of their king, in
attempting to

seize him; and it is owned by our Saviour, that it was an instance of greater
severity

than the spirit of the New Testament allows, Luke ix. 54. But then we must

consider that it is not unlikely that these captains and soldiers believed
that they

were eent to fetch the prophet, that he aright be put to death for foretelling
the

death of the king, and this while they knew him to be the prophet of the true
God,

the supreme King of Israel (for they were still under the theocracy), which
was no

less than impiety, rebellion, Aid treason, in the highest degree: Nor would
the

command of a subaltern, or inferior captain, contradicting the commands of the

general, when the captain and the soldiers both knew it to be so, as I
suppose,

justify or excuse such gross rebellion and disobedience in soldiers at this
day. Ac­

cordingly, when Saul commanded his guards to slay Ahimclech, and the priests
at

Nob, they knew it to be an unlawful command, and would not obey it, 1 Sam.
xxii-

17. From which cases both officers and soldiers may learn, that the commands
of

their leaders or kings cannot justify or excuse them in doing what is wicked
i»

the sight of God, or in fighting in an unjust cause, when they know it so to
he.

