Chap. X. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. SOS

during which time the king did not fail to go on both with the

work and to pay the charges that were necessary.

CHAP. X.

How Herod sent his sons to Rome; how also he was accused by

Zenodorus, and the Gadarens, but was cleared of what they

accused him of, and withal gained to himself the good-will of

Ccesar. Concerning the Pharisees, the Essens, and Manahem.

$ 1. W HEN Herod was engaged in such matters, and when

he had already re-edified Sebaste [Samaria,] he resolved to

send his sons Alexander and Aristobulus to Rome, to enjoy

the company of Caesar; who, when they came thither, lodged

at the house of * Pollio, who was very fond of Herod's friend­

ship; and they had leave to lodge in Caesar's own palace, for

he received these sons of Herod with all humanity, and gave

Herod leave to give his kingdom to which of his sons he pleased;

and, besides all this, he bestowed on him Trachon, and Batanea,

and Auranitis, which he gave him on the occasion following:

One f Zenodorus had hired what was called the house of Lysa-

nias, who, as he was not satisfied with its revenues, became a

partner with the robbers that inhabited the Trachones, and &o

procured himself a larger income; for the inhabitants of those

places lived in a mad way, and pillaged the country of the Da­

mascenes, while Zenodorus did not restrain them, but partook

of the prey they acquired. Now, as the neighbouring people

were hereby great sufferers, they complained to Varro, who was

then president [of Syria,] and entreated him to write to Caesar

about this injustice of Zenodorus. When these matters were

laid before Caesar, he wrote back to Varro to destroy those

nests of robbers, and to give the land to Herod, that so by his

care the neighbouring countries might be no longer disturbed

with these doings of the Trachonites, for it was not an easy

thing to restrain them, since this way of robbery had been theu

usual practice, and they had no other way to get their living,

because they had neither any city of their own, nor lands in their

possession, but only some receptacles and dens in the earth, and

there they and their cattle lived in common together: However,

* This Pollio, with whom Herod's sons lived at Rome, was not Pollio the Phari­  
see, already mentioned by Josephus, ch. i. sect. 1. and again presently after
this, ch.

x. sect. 4. but Asinius Pollio, the Roman, as Spanheim here observes.

+ The character of this Zenodorus is so like that of a famous robber of this
same

name in Strabo, and that about this very country, and about this very time
also, that

I think Dr. Hudson hardly needed to have put 3 perhaps to liis determination
that

they were the same.

