Chap. XI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 81

"walking, of stone, and made it resemble mountains, and built

"it so that it might be planted with all sorts of trees. He

"also erected what was called a pensile paradise, because his

"wile was desirous to have things like her own country, she

"having been bred up in the palaces of Media." Megasthenes-

also, in his fourth book of his accounts of India, makes mention

of these things, and thereby endeavours to show that this king

"[Nebuchadnezzar] exceeded Hercules, in fortitude, and in the

greatness of his actions; for he saith, that "he conquered a

"great part of Lybia and Iberia." Diocles also, in the second

book of his accounts of Persia, mentions this king; as does Phi-

lostrates in his accounts both of India and of Phenicia, say, that

"this king besieged Tyre thirteen years, while at the same

"time Ethball reigned at Tyre." These are all the histories

that I have met with concerning this king.

2. But now after the death of Nebuchadnezzar, Evil-Mero-

dach his son succeeded in the kingdom, who immediately set Je-

coniah at liberty, and esteemed him among his most intimate

friends: He also gave him many presents, and made him honour­

able above the rest of the kings that were in Babylon; for his fa­

ther had not kept his faith with Jeconiah, when he voluntarily

delivered up himself to him, with his wives and children, and his

whole kindred, for the sake of his country, that it might not be

taken by siege, and utterly destroyed, as we said before. When

Evil-Merodach was dead, after a reign of eighteen years, Nig-

lissar his son took the government, and retained it forty years,

and then ended his life: and after him the succession in the king­

dom came to his son Labofordacus,• who continued in it in all but

nine months; and when he was dead it came to * Baltasar, who,

by the Babylonians, was called Naboandelus; against him did

Cyrus, the king of Persia, and Darius, the king of Media, make

* It is here remarkable, that Josephus, without the knowledge of Ptolemy's canon,  
should call the same king whom he himself here (Bar. i. 11. and Dan. v. 1, 2,
9.

12,22, 29, 30.) styles Beltazar, or Belihatzar, from the Babylonian god Bel,
Neboan-

ilelus also; but in the first book against Apion sect. 19. vol. iii. from the
same citation

out of Berosus, Nabonnedon, from the Babylonian god Nabo or Nebo. This last is

not remote from the original pronunciation itself in Ptolemy's canon,
Nabonadiut,

for both the place of this king in that canon, as the last of the Assyrian or
Babylo­

nian kings, and the number of years of his reign, seventeen, the same in both,
de­

monstrate that it is one and the same king that is meant by them all. It is
also

worth noting, that Josephus knew that Darius, the partner of Cyrus, was the
son of

Astyages, and was called by another name among the Greeks, though it does not
ap­

pear he knew what that name was, as having never seen the best history of this
pe­

riod, which is Xenophen's: But then what Josephus' present copies say
presently,

sect. 4. that it was only within no long time after the hand writing on the
wall that

ISeltasar was slain, does not so agree with our copies of Daniel, which say it
was the

lame night, Dan. v. 30.

