098 ANTIO.UITH.S OF TO.S, JEWS. Book XVI.

i

"receivers at Jerusalem ; and that they be not obliged to go be-

"fore any judge on the Sabbath day, nor on the * day of the

"preparation to it, after the ninth hour: but if any one be

'-* caught stealing their holy books, or their sacred money, whe-

"ther it be out of the synagogue, or public school, he shall be

"deemed a sacrilegious person, and his goods shall be brought

"into the public treasury of the Romans. And 1 give order,

"that the testimonial which they have given me, on account of

"my regard to that piety which I exercise toward all mankind,

"and out of regard to Caius Marcus Censorinus, together with

"the present decree, be proposed in that most eminent place

"which hath been consecrated to me, by the community of

"Asia at Ancyra. And if any one transgress any part of

"what is above decreed, he shall be severely punished." This

was inscribed upon a pillar in the temple of Caesar.

3. " Caesar to Norbanus Flaccus, sendeth greeting: Let

"those Jews, how many soever they be, who have been used

"according to their ancient custom, to send their sacred money

"to Jerusalem, do the same freely." These were the decrees

of Caesar.

4. Agrippa also did himself write after the manner following,

on behalf of the Jews: "Agrippa, to the magistrates, senate,

"and people of the Ephesians, sendeth greeting: I will that

"the care and custody of the sacred money that is carried to

"the temple at Jerusalem be left to the Jews of Asia, to do

"with it according to their ancient custom; and that such as

"steal that sacred money of the Jews, and fly to a sanctuary,

"shall be taken thence and delivered to the Jews, by the same

"law that sacrilegious persons are taken thence. I have also

"written to Sylvanus the pretor, that no one compel the Jews

"to come before a judge on the Sabbath day."

5. " Marcus Agrippa, to the magistrates, senate, and people

"of Cyrene, sendeth greeting: The Jews of Cyrene have inter-

"ceded with me for the performance of what Augustus sent

"orders about to Flavius, the then pretor of Lybia, and to the

"other procurators of that province, that the sacred money may

"be sent to Jerusalem freely, as hath been their custom from

"their forefathers, they complaining that they are abused by

"certain informers, and under pretence of taxes which were

"not due, are hindered from sending them, which I command

"to be restored, without any diminution or disturbance given

"to them: And if any of that sacred money in the ci­

* This is authentic evidence, that the Jews, in the days of Augustus, began to  
prepare for the celebration of the Sabbath at the ninth hour on Friday, as the
tradi­

tion of the elders did, it seems, then require of them.

