326 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XV.

did they desist till he was entirely suffocated; and thus was Aris-

tobulus murdered, having lived no more in all than * eighteen

years, and kept the high priesthood one year only: which high

priesthood Ananelus now recovered again.

4. When this sad accident was told the women, their joy was

soon changed to lamentation, at the sight of the dead body that

lay before them; and their sorrow was immoderate. The city

also of [Jerusalem,] upon the spreading of this news, were in

very great grief, every family looking on this calamity, as if

it had not belonged to another, but that one of themselves was

slain; but Alexandra was more deeply affected, upon her know­

ledge that he had been destroyed [on purpose.] Her sorrow

was greater than that of others, by her knowing how the mur­

der was committed, but she was under a necessity of bearing up

under it, out of her prospect of a greater mischief that might

otherwise follow: and she oftentimes came to an inclination to

kill herself with her own hand, but still she restrained herself,

in hopes she might live long enough to revenge the unjust mur­

der thus privately committed; nay, she farther resolved to en­

deavour to live longer, and to give no occasion to think she sus­

pected that her son was slain on purpose, and supposed that she

might thereby be in a capacity of revenging it at a proper op­

portunity. Thus did she restrain herself, that she might not

be noted for entertaining any such suspicion. However, Herod

endeavoured that none abroad should believe that the child's

death was caused by any design of his ; and for this purpose he

did not only use the ordinary signs of sorrow, but fell into tears

so, and exhibited a real confusion of soul: and perhaps his af­

fections were overcome on this occasion, when he saw the child's

countenance so young, and so beautiful, although his death

was supposed to tend to his own security; so far at least this

grief served as to make some apology for him: and as for his

funeral, that he took care should be very magnificent, by mak­

ing great preparation for a sepulchre to lay his body in, and

providing a great quantity of spices, and burying many orna­

ments together with him, till the very women, who were in

such deep sorrow, were astonished at it, and received in this

way some consolation,

5. However, no such things could overcome Alexandra's grief,

but the remembrance of this miserable case made her sorrow

both deep and obstinate. Accordingly, she wrote an account of

this treacherous scene to Cleopatra, and how her son was mur­

* The reading of one of Josephus' Greek MSS. seems here to be right, that Ar-  
istobulus was not eighteen years old when he was drowned, for he was not
sevmtcfn

when he was made high priest, ch. ii. sect. 6. ch. iii. sect. 3. and he
continued in

that office but one year, as in the place before us.

