Chap. IX. ANTIgUTTIJiS OF THE JEWS. 361

among foreigners: and it looked as if these calamities that af­

flicted his land to a degree plainly incredible, came in order to

raise his glory, and to be to his great advantage, for the great­

ness of his liberality in these distresses, which he now demonstrat­

ed beyond all expectation, did so change the disposition of the

multitude towards him, that they were ready to suppose he had

been from the beginning not such a one as they had found him

to be by experience, but such a one as the care he had taken of

them in supplying their necessities proved him now to be.

3. About this time it was that he sent five hundred chosen

men out of the guards of his body as auxiliaries to Caesar, whom

* jElius Gallus led to the Red Sea, and who were of great service  
to him there. When therefore his affairs were thus improved,

and were again in a flourishing condition, he built himself a pa­

lace in the upper city, raising the rooms to a very great height,

and adorning them with the most costly furniture of gold, and

marble seats and beds, and these were so large, that they could

contain very many companies of men. These apartments were

also of distinct magnitudes, and had particular names given them,

for one apartment was called Caesar's, another Agrippa's. He

also fell in love again, and married another wife, not suffering

his reason to hinder him from living as he pleased. The occa­

sion of thls his marriage was as follows: There was one Simon,

a citizen of Jerusalem, the son of one Boethus, a citizen of Alex­

andria, and a priest of great note there: this man had a daughter,

who was esteemed the most beautiful woman of that time; and

when the people of Jerusalem began to speak much in her com­

mendation, it happened that Herod was much affected with

what was said of her; and when he saw the damsel, he was

smitten with her beauty, yet did he entirely reject the thoughts

of using his authority to abuse her, as believing, what was the

truth, that by so doing he should be stigmatized for violence

md tyranny, so he thought it best to take the damsel to wife.

And while Simon was of a dignity too inferior to be allied to

him, but still too considerable to be despised, he governed his

inclinations after the most prudent manner, by augmenting the

dignity of the family, and making them more honourable; so he

immediately deprived Jesus, the son of Phabet, of the high priest­

hood, and conferred that dignity on Simon, and so joined in af­

finity with him [by marrying his daughter.]

4. When this wedding was over, he built another citadel in

* This TfUius Gallus seems to be no other than that ^Jliu» Largus whom Dio  
speaks of as conducting an expedition that was about this time ;made into
Arabia

Felix, according to Petavius, who is here cited by Spanheim. See a full
account of

this expedition in Prid«aux, at the years 23 and 24.

