Chap. V. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 107

month of the same year. Now Esdras presented the sacred mo­

ney, of the treasurers, who were of the family of the priests, ol

silver six hundred and fifty talents, vessels of silver one hundred

talents, vessels of gold, twenty talents, vessels of brass, that was

* more precious than gold, twelve talents by weight, for these  
presents had been made by the king and his counsellors, and by

all the Israelites that stayed at Babylon. So when Esdras had

delivered these things to the priests, he gave to God, as the ap­

pointed sacrifices of whole burnt-offerings, twelve bulls on ac­

count of the common preservation of the people, ninety rams,

and seventy-two lambs, twelve kids of the goats, for the remis­

sion of sins. He also delivered the king's epistle to the king's

officers, and to the governors of Celesyria and Phenicia; and as

they were under a necessity of doing what was enjoined by him,

they honoured our nation, and were assistant to them in all their

necessities.

3. Now these things were truly done under the conduct of Es­

dras, and he succeeded in them, because God esteemed him wor­

thy of the success of his conduct, on account of his goodness and

righteousness. But some time afterward there came some per­

sons to him, and brought an accusation against certain of the

multitude, and of the priests and Levites, who had transgressed

their settlement, and dissolved the laws of their country, by

marrying strange wives, and had brought the family of the

priests into contusion. These persons desired him to support

the laws, lest God should take up a general anger against them

all, and reduce them to a calamitous condition again. Here­

upon he rent his garment immediately out of grief, and pulled

off the hair off his head and beard, and cast himself upon the

ground, because this crime had reached the principal men among

the people, and considering that if he should enjoin them to cast

out their wives, and the children they had by them, he should not

be hearkened to, he continued lying upon the ground. However,

all the better sort came running to him, who also themselves wept,

and partook of the grief he was under for what had been done.

So Esdras rose up from the ground, and stretched out his hands

towards heaven, and said, that " he was ashamed to look towards

"it, because of the sins which the people had committed, while

"they had cast out of their memories what their fathers had

"undergone on account of their wickedness: and he besought

"God, who had saved a seed and a remnant out of the calamity

"and captivity they had been in, and had restored them again to

"Jerusalem and to their own land, and had obliged the kings of

* Dr. Hudson takes notice here, that this kind of brass or copper, or rather mix­  
ture of gold and brass or copper, was called aurickalcum, and that this was of
old

esteemed the most precious of all metals.

VOL. II o 19

