166 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIT.

admitted him into it, on account of the riches that lay in the

temple; but led by his covetous inclination, (for he saw there

was in it a great deal of gold, and many ornaments that had

been dedicated to it of very great value,) and in order to plunder

its wealth, he ventured to break the league he had made. So he

left the temple bare; and took away the golden candlesticks, and

the golden altar [of incense,] and table [of shew-bread,] and the

altar [of burnt-offering;] and did not abstain from even the vails,

which were made of fine linen and scarlet. He also emptied it

of its secret treasures, and left nothing at all remaining; and by

these means cast the Jews into great lamentation, for he forbade

them to offer those daily sacrifices which they used to offer to

God, according to the law. And when he had pillaged the whole

city, some of the inhabitants he slew, and some he carried cap­

tive, together with their wives and children, so that the multi­

tude of those captives that were taken alive amounted to about

ten thousand. He also burnt down the finest buildings; and

when he had overthrown the city walls, he built * a citadel in

the lower part of the city, for the place was high, and over­

looked the temple, on which account he fortified it with high

walls and towers; and put into it a garrison of Macedonians.

However, in that citadel dwelt the impious and wicked part of

the [Jewish] multitude, from whom it proved that the citizens

suffered many and sore calamities. And when the king had built

an idol altar upon God's altar, he slew swine upon it, and so of­

fered a sacrifice neither according to the law, nor the Jewish re­

ligious worship in that country. He also compelled them to for­

sake the worship which they paid their own God, and to adore

those whom he took to be gods, and made them build temples,

and raise idol altars in every city and village, and offer swine

upon them every day. He also commanded them not to cir­

cumcise their sons, and threatened to punish any that should be

found to have transgressed his injunctions. He also appointed

overseers, who should compel them to do what he commanded.

And indeed many Jews there were who complied with the king's

commands, either voluntarily or out of fear of the penalty that

was denounced: but the best men, and those of the noblest souls,

did not regard him, but did pay a greater respect to the customs

* This Citadel, of which we have such frequent mention in the following history,  
both in the Maccabees and in Josephus, seems to have been a castle built on a
hill,

lower than mount Zion, though upon its skirts, and higher than mount Mcriah,
be­

tween them both; which hill the enemies of the Jews now got possession of, and

built on it this citadel and fortified it, till a good while afterwards the
Jews regained

it, and levelled the hill itself with the common ground, that their enemies
might

no more recover it, and might thence overlook the temple itself, and do them
such

mischief as they had long undergone from it, Antiq. B. XIII. chap. vi. sect.
6, Vol. II.

