90 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XL

Cyrus read this, and admired the divine power, an earnest de­

sire and ambition seized upon him, to fulfil what was so written;

so he called for the most eminent Jews that were in Babylon,

and said to them, that "he gave them leave to go back to their

"own country, and to rebuild * their city Jerusalem, and the

"temple of God, for that he would be their assistant, and that

"he would write to the rulers and governors that were in the

"neighbourhood of their country of Judea, that they should

"contribute to them gold and silver for the building of the

"temple, and besides that, beasts for their sacrifices."

3. When Cyrus had said this to the Israelites, the rulers of

the two tribes of Judah and Benjamin, with the Levites, and

priests, went in haste to Jerusalem, yet did many of them stay

at Babylon, as not willing to leave.their possessions; and when

they were come thither, all the king's friends assisted them, and

brought in, for the building of the temple, some gold and some

silver, and some a great many cattle and horses. So they per­

formed their vows to God, and offered the sacrifices that had

been accustomed of old time; I mean this upon the rebuilding of

their city, and the revival of the ancient practices relating to

their worship. Cyrus also sent back to them the vessels of God

which king Nebuchadnezzar had pillaged out of the temple, and

had carried to Babylon. So he committed these things to Mith-

ridates, the treasurer, to be sent away, with an order to give

them to Sanabassar, that he might keep them till the temple

was built; and when it was finished, he might deliver them to

the priests and rulers of the multitude, in order to their being

restored to the temple. Cyrus also sent an epistle to the gov­

ernors that were in Syria, the contents whereof here follow:

"King CYRUS to SISINNES and SATHRABUZANES, sendetk

"greeting.

"I have given leave, to as many of the Jews that dwell in my

"country as please to return to their own country, and to re-

"build their city, and to build the temple of God at Jerusalem,

"on the same place where it was before. I have also sent my

i

* This leave to build Jerusalem, sect. 2, 5. and the epistle of Cyrus to Sisinnes and  
Sitlmilmzimes, to the came purpose, are most unfortunately omitted in all our
co­

pies, but this best and completes! copy of Josephus, and by such omission the
fa­

mous prophecy of Isaiah, Isa. xliv. 23. where we are informed, that God said
of, or

to Cyrus, " He is my shepherd, and shall perform all my pleasure; even saying
to

Jerusalem, Ihou shall be built, and to the temple, thy foundation shall be
laid,"

could not hitherto be demonstrated from the sacred history to have been
completely

fulfilled; I mean as to that part of it which concerned his giving leave or
commis­

sion for rebuilding the city Jerusalem as distinct from the temple, whose
rebuilding

k alone permitted or directed in the decree of Cyrus in all our copies.

