320 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XV.

These Jews honoured Hyrcanus as their high priest, and king;

as did all the Jewish nation that dwelt as far as Euphrates;

which respect was very much to his satisfaction. But when he

was informed that Herod had received the kingdom, new hopes

came upon him, as having been himself still of a kind disposition

towards him, and expecting that Herod would bear in mind

what favour he had received from him, and when he was upon

his trial, and when he was in danger that a capital sentence would

be pronounced against him, he delivered him from that danger,

and from all punishment. Accordingly, he talked of that matter

with the Jews that came often to him with great affection; but

they endeavoured to retain him among them, and desired that

he would stay with them, putting him in mind of the kind offices

and honours they did him, and that those honours they paid him

were not at all inferior to what they could pay to either their high

priests or their kings: and what was a greater motive to deter­

mine him, they said, was this, that he could not have those dig­

nities [in Judea] because of that maim in his body, which had

been inflicted on him by Antigonus; and that kings do not use

to requite men for those kindnesses which they received when

they were private persons, the height of their fortune making

usually no small changes in them.

3. Now although they suggested these arguments to him for

his own advantage, yet did Hyrcanus still desire to depart. He­

rod also wrote to him, and persuaded him to desire of Phraates,

and the Jews that were there, that they should not grudge him

the royal authority, which he should have jointly with himself,

for that now was the proper time for himself to make him amends

for the favours he had received from him, as having been brought

up by him, and saved by him also, as well as for Hyrcanus to

receive it. And as he wrote thus to Hyrcanus, so did he send

also Saramallas, his ambassador, to Phraates, and many presents

with him, and desired him in the most obliging way, that he

would be no hinderance to his gratitude towards his benefactor.

But this zeal of Herod's did not flow from that principle, but

because he had been made governor of that country without hav­

ing any just claim to it, he was afraid, and that upon reasons good

enough, of a change in his condition, and so made what haste

he could to get Hyrcanus into his power, or indeed to put him

quite out of the way: which last thing he compassed afterward.

4. Accordingly, when Hyrcanus came, full of assurance, by

the permission of the king of Parthia, and at the expense of the

Jews, who supplied him with money, Herod received him with

all possible respect, and gave him the upper place at public meet­

ings, and set him above all the rest at feasts, and thereby deceived

him. He called him his father; and endeavoured by all the

