Chap. IX. ANTIQUITIES. OF THE JEWS. 363

would not have been borne, it being forbidden for us to pay any

honour to images, or representations of animals, after the man­

ner of the Greeks, but still he did thus in the country [properly]

out of our bounds, and in the cities thereof. The apology

which he made to the Jews for these things was this, that all was

done, not out of his own inclinations, but by the commands and

injunctions of the others, in order to please Caesar, and the Ro­

mans, as though he had not the Jewish customs so much in his

eye as he had the honour of those Romans, while yet he had him­

self entirely in view all the while, and indeed was very ambi­

tious to leave great monuments of his government to posterity;

whence it was that he was so zealous in building such fine cities,

and spent such vast sums of money upon them.

6. Now upon his observation of a place near the sea, which

was very proper for containing a city, and was before called

Strato's Tower, he set about getting a plan for a magnificent

city there, and erected many edifices with great diligence all over

it, and this of white stone. He also adorned it with most sump­

tuous palaces, and large edifices for containing the people; and

what was the greatest and most laborious work of all, he adorned

it with a haven; that was always free from the waves of the

sea. Its largeness was not less than the Pyraeum [at Athens,]

and had towards the city a double station for the ships. It

was of excellent workmanship; and this was the more remarkable

for its being built in a place that of itself was not suitable to

such noble structures, but was to be brought to perfection by

materials from other places, and at very great expenses. This

city is situate in Phenicia, in the passage by sea to Egypt, be­

tween Joppa and Dora, which are lesser maritime cities, and not

fit for havens, on account of the impetuous south winds that beat

upon them, which rolling the sands that come from the sea

against the shores, do not admit of ships lying in their station, but

the merchants are generally there forced to ride at their anchors

in the sea itself. So Herod endeavoured to rectify this incon­

venience, and laid out such a compass towards the land as might

'whole Roman empire being divided into two opposite factions, there was pro-

'duced hereby the most destructive war that ever afflicted it; and the like
folly

'too much reigns in all other places. Could about thirty men be persuaded to

'Kve at home in peace, without enterprising upon the right of each other, for

'the vain glory of conquest, and the enlargement of power, the whole world

'might be at quiet; but their ambition, their follies, and their humour,
leading

- them constantly to encroach upon and quarrel with each other, they involve all  
'that are under them in the mischiefs thereof; and many thousands are they
which

'yearly perish by it; so that it may almost raise a doubt, whether the benefit

"which the world receives from government be sufficient to make amends for the

"calamities which it suiters from the follies, mistakes, and mal-
administrations of

"those that manage it«"

VOL. II, z z 27

