iy6 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIII.

"you from the greatest part of the tributes and taxes which

"you formerly paid to the kings my predecessors, and to my-

"self; and I do now set you free from those tributes which

"you have ever paid; and besides, I forgive you the tax upon

"salt, and * the value of the crowns which you used to offer to

"me; and instead of the third part of the fruits [of the field],

"and the half of the fruits of the trees, I relinquish my part 01

"them from this day: And as to the poll-money, which ought

"to be given me for every head of the inhabitants of Judea,

"and of the three toparchies that adjoin to Judea, Samaria, and

"Galilee, and Perea, that I relinquish to you for this time, and

"for all time to come. I will also that the city of Jerusalem

"be holy and inviolable; and free from the tythe, and from the

"taxes, unto its utmost bounds : And I so far recede from my

"title to the citadel, as to permit Jonathan your high priest to

"possess it, that he may place such a garrison in it as he ap-

"proves of for fidelity and good will to himself, that they may

"keep it for us. I also make free all those Jews who have

"been made captives and slaves in my kingdom. I also give

"order that the beasts of the Jews be not pressed for our ser-

"vice. And let their Sabbaths, and all their festivals, and three

"days before each of them, be free from any imposition. In

"the same manner, I set free the Jews that are inhabitants in

"my kingdom, and order that no injury be done them. I also

"give leave to such of them as are willing to list themselves in

"my army, that they may do it, and those as far as thirty

"thousand; which Jewish soldiers, wheresoever they go, shatl

"have the same pay that my own army hath: and some of them

"I will place in my garrisons, and some as guards about mine

"own body, and as rulers over those that are in my court. I

"give them leave also to use the laws of their forefathers, and

"to observe them; and I will, that they have power over the

"three toparchies that are added to Judea, and it shall be in the

"power of the high priest, to take care that not one Jew shall

"have any other temple for worship, but only that at Jerusa-

"lem. I bequeath also, out of my own revenues, yearly, for

"the expenses about the sacrifices, one hundred and fifty thou-

"sand [drachmae;] and what money is to spare I will that it

"shall be your own. I also release to you those ten thousand

"drachmae which the kings received from the temple, because

"they appertain to the priests that minister in that temple.

"And whosoever shall fly to the temple at Jerusalem, or to the

* Take Grotius" note here: "The Jews, says he, were wont to present  
"crowns to the kings [of Syria;] afterwards that gold, which was paid instead
of

"those crowns, or which was expended in making them, was called tho crown gold

"and crown tax." On 1 Slaccab. z. 27.

