162 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XII.

two of his brethren themselves, but the rest of them escaped

to Jerusalem to their father. But when Hyrcanus came to the

city, where nobody would receive him, he was afraid for him­

self, and retired beyond the river Jordan, and there abode, but

obliging the Barbarians to pay their taxes.

10. At this time Seleucus, who was called Soter, reigned over

Asia, being the son of Antiochus the Great. And [now] Hyr­

canus' father Joseph died. He was a good man and of great

magnanimity; and brought the Jews out of a state of poverty

and meanness, to one that was more splendid. He retained the

farm of the taxes of Syria, and Phenicia, and Samaria, twenty-

two years. His uncle also, Onias, died [about this time] and

left the high priesthood to his son Simeon. And when he was

dead, Onias his son succeeded him in that dignity. To him it

was that Areus, king of the Lacedemonians, sent an embassage,

with an epistle; the copy whereof here follows:

"AREUS king of the Lacedemonians, to ONIAS, sendeth

greeting:"

"We have met with a certain writing, whereby we have

"discovered that both the Jews and the Lacedemonians are of

"one stock, and are derived from the * kindred of Abraham: It

"is-but just therefore, that you, who are our brethren, should

"send to us about any of your concerns as you please. We

"will also do the same thing, and esteem your concerns as our

"own; and will look upon our concerns as in common with

"yours. Demoteles, who brings you this letter, will bring

"your answer back to us. This letter is foursquare; and the

"seal is an eagle, with a dragon in its claws."

11. And these were the contents of the epistle which was sent

from the king of the Lacedemonians. But upon the death of

* Whence it comes that these Lacedemonians declare themselves here to be of  
kin to the Jews, as derived from the same ancestor Abraham, I cannot tell,
unless,

us Grotius supposes, they were derived from the Dores, that came of the
Pelftsgi.

These are by Herodotus, called Barbarians, and perhaps were derived from the

Syrians and Arabians, the posterity of Abraham by Keturah. See Antiq. B.

XVI. ch. x. sect. 22. Vol. II. and Of the War, B. I. ch. xxvi. sect. 1. Vol.
III. and

Grot, on 1 Maccab. xii. 7. We may farther observe from the recognitions of
Cle­

ment, that Eliezer of Damascus, the servant of Abraham, Gen xv. 2. and xxiv.
wa»

of old by some taken for his son. So that if the Lacedemonians were sprung
from

him, they might think themselves to be of the posterity of Abraham: as well as
the

Jews who were sprung from Isaac. And perhaps this Eliczur of Damascus is that

very Damascus whom Trogus Pompeius, as abridged by Justin, makes the founder

of the Jewish nation itself, though he afterwards blunders, and makes Azelus,
Ado­

res, Abraham, and Israel, kings of Judea, and successors to this Damascus. It
may

not be'itnproper to observe farther, that Moses Chorenensis, in his history of
the Ar­

menians, informs us, that the nation of the Partliians was also derived from
Abra­

ham, by Keturah, and her children.

