Chap. VIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 409

ting any of the things out of them which he suspected. And

while Herod was very busy about this matter, and the palace

was full of terror and trouble, one of the younger sort, when he

was in the utmost agony, confessed that Alexander had sent to

his friends at Rome, and desired that he might be quickly in­

vited thither by Caesar, and that he could discover a plot against

him; that Mithridates, the king of Parthia, was joined in a

friendship with his father against the Romans, and that he had

a poisonous potion ready prepared at Askelon.

5. To these accusations Herod gave credit, and enjoyed hereby,

in his miserable case, some sort of consolation, in excuse of his

rashness, as flattering himself with rmding things in so bad a con­

dition: but as for the poisonous potion, which he laboured to find,

he could find none. As for Alexander, he was very desirous to

aggravate the vast misfortunes he was under, so he pretended

not to deny the accusations, but punished the rashness of his fa­

ther with a great crime of his own; and perhaps he was willing

to make his father ashamed of his easy belief of such calumnies:

he aimed especially, if he could gain belief to his story, to plague

him, and his whole kingdom; for he wrote four letters, and sent

them to him, that " he did not need to torture any more persons,

"for he had plotted against him; and that he had for his part-

"ners Pheroras, and the most faithful of his friends; and that

"Salome came in to him by night, and that she lay with him

"whether he would or no; and that all men were come to be

"of one mind, to make away with him as soon as they could,

"and so get clear of the continual fear they were in from him."

Among these were accused Ptolemy, and Sapinnius, who were

the most faithful friends to the king. And what more can be

said, but that those who before were the most intimate friends,

were become wild beasts to one another, as if a certain madness

had fallen upon them, while there was no room for defence or

refutation, in order to the discovery of the truth, but all were

at random doomed to destruction ; so that some lamented those

that were in prison, some those that were put to death, and

others lamented that they were in the expectation of the same

miseries; and a melancholy solitude rendered the kingdom de­

formed, and quite the reverse to that happy state it was formerly

in: Herod's own life also was entirely disturbed; and because

he could trust nobody, he was sorely punished by the expecta­

tion of farther misery, for he often fancied in his imagination,

that his son had fallen upon him, or stood by him with a sword

in his hand; and thus was his mind night and day intent upon

this thing, and revolved it over and over, no otherwise than if

he were under a distraction. And this was the sad condition

Herod was now in. .

