2S8 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIV

"be allowed to observe their Sabbaths, and to act in all things

"according to the customs of their forefathers, without impedi-

M ment from any body, the pretor hath granted their petition.

"Accordingly, it was decreed by the senate and people, that in

"this affair that concerned the Romans, no one of them should

"be hindered from keeping the Sabbath day, nor be fined for

"so doing, but that they may be allowed to do all things accord-

"ing to their own laws."

26. Now there are * many such decrees of the senate and im-

perators of the Romans, and those different from these before

us, which have been made in favour of Hyrcanus, and of our

nation; as also, there have been more decrees of the city, and

rescripts of the pretors, to such epistles as concerned our rights

and privileges: and certainly such as are not ill disposed to what

we write, may believe that they are all to this purpose, and

that by the specimens which we have inserted; for since we

have produced evident marks that may still be seen, of the friend足

ship we have had with the Romans, and demonstrated that those

marks are engraven upon columns and tables of brass in the

capitol, that are still in being, and preserved to this day, we

have omitted to set them all down, as needless and disagreeable;

for I cannot suppose any one so perverse as not to believe the

friendship we have had with the Romans, while they have de足

monstrated the same by such a great number of their decrees

relating to; nor will they doubt of our fidelity as to the rest of

those decrees, since we have showed the same in those we have

produced. And thus have we sufficiently explained that friend足

ship and confederacy we at those times had with the Romans.

CHAP. XI .

How f Marcus succeeded Sextus, when he had been slain by

Bassus' treachery ,' and how, after the death of Ctesar, Cassias

came into Syria, and distressed Judea - as also, how Molichus

slew Antipater, and was himself slain by Herod.

J 1. JN ow it so fell out, that about this very time the affairs

of Syria were in great disorder, and this on the occasion fol足

* If we compare Josephus" promise in sect. 1. to produce all the public decrees  
of the Romans in favour of the Jews with his excuse here for omitting many of
them,

we may observe, that when he came to transcribe all those decrees he had
collected,

he found them so numerous that he thought he should too much tire his readers
if he

had attempted it, which he thought a sufficient apology for his omitting the
rest of

them; yet do those by him produced afford such a strong confirmation to his
history,

and give such great light to even the Roman Antiquities themselves, that I
believe

the curious are not a little sorry for such his omission.

f For Marcus the president of Syria, sent us successor to Sextus Caesar, the

