96 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XL

"deed is there any thing which we do not receive from them:

"for these women weave garments for us, and our household

"affairs are by their means taken care of, and preserved in

"safety; nor can we live separate from women. And when

"we have gotten a great deal of gold and silver, and any other

"thing that is of great value, and deserving regard, and see a

"beautiful woman, we leave all these things, and with open

"mouth fix our eyes upon her countenance, and are willing to

"forsake what we have, that we may enjoy her beauty, and

".procure it to ourselves. We also leave father, and mother,

*- and the earth that nourishes us, and frequently forget our  
"dearest friends, for the sake of women: nay, we are so hardy

"as to lay down our lives for them. But what will chiefly

"make you take notice of the strength of women is this that

"follows: Do not we take pains, and endure a great deal of trou-

"ble, and that both by land and sea, and when we have pro-

"cured somewhat as the fruit of our labours, do we not bring

"them to the women, as to our mistresses; and bestow them

"upon them? nay, I once saw the king, who is lord of so

"many people, smitten on the face by Apame, the daughter of

"Rabsases Themasius, his concubine, and his diadem taken

"away from him, and put upon her own head, while he bore

"it patiently; and when she smiled he smiled, and when she

"was angry he was sad; and according to the change of her

"passions, he flattered his wife, and drew her to reconciliation

"by the great humiliation of himself to her, if at any time he

"saw her displeased at him."

6. And when the princes and rulers looked one upon another,

he began to speak about truth; and he said, "I have already

"demonstrated how powerful women are; but both these wo-

*' men themselves, and the king himself, are weaker than truth;  
"for although the earth be large, and the heaven high, and

"the course of the sun swift, yet are all these moved according

"to the will of God, who is true and righteous, for which cause

"we also ought to esteem truth to be strongest of all things,

"and that what is unrighteous is of no force against it. More-

"over, all things else that have any strength are mortal, and

"short-lived, but truth is a thing that is immortal, and eternal.

"It affords us not indeed such a beauty as will -wither away by

"time, nor such riches as may be taken away by fortune, but

"righteous rules and laws. It distinguishes them from injustice,

"and puts what is unrighteous to rebuke."*

* The reader is to note, that although the speeches or papers of these three  
of the king's guard are much the same, in the third book of Esdias, chap. iii.
and

iv. as they are here in Josephus, yet that the introduction of them is
entirely

different, while in our Esdras the whole is. related as the contrivance of the

