2S6 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIII.

of his sons should be his successor? Upon God's representing

to him the countenance of Alexander, he was grieved that he

was to be the heir of all his goods, and suffered him to be

brought up in * Galilee. However, God did not deceive Hyr-

canus, for after the death of Aristobulus, he certainly took the

kingdom, and one of his brethren, who affected the kingdom,

he slew, and the other, who chose to live a private and quiet

life, he had in esteem.

2. When Alexander Janneus had settled the government in

the manner that he judged best, he made an expedition against

Ptolemais; and having overcome the men in battle, he shut

them up in the city, and sat round about it, and besieged it;

for of the maritime cities there remained only Ptolemais and

Gaza to be conquered, besides Strato's Tower, and Dora, which

were held by the tyrant Zoilus. Now while Antiochus Phih>

meter, and Antiochus who was called Cyzicenus, were making

war one against another, and destroying one another's armies,

the people of Ptolemais could have no assistance from them; but

when they were distressed with this siege, Zoilus, who possessed

Strato's Tower and Dora, and maintained a legion of soldiers,

and on occasion of the contest between the kings, affected tyran­

ny himself, came and brought some small assistance to the peo­

ple of Ptolemais; nor indeed had the kings such a friendship for

them, as that they should hope for any advantage from them:

Both these kings were in the case of wrestlers, who rinding

themselves deficient in strength, and yet being ashamed to yield,

put off the fight by laziness and by lying still as long as they

could. The only hope they had remaining was from the king of

Egypt, and from Ptolemy Lathyrus, who now held Cyprus,

and who came to Cyprus when he was driven from the govern­

ment of Egypt, by Cleopatra his mother: So the people of Pto­

lemais sent to this Ptolemy Lathyrus, and desired him to come

as a confederate, to deliver them, now they were in such dan­

ger, out of the hands of Alexander. And as the ambassadors

gave him hopes, that if he would pass over into Syria, he would

have the people of Gaza, on the side of those of Ptolemnis; as

also they said, that Zoilus, and besides these the Sidonians, and

many others, would assist them, so he was elevated at this, and

got his fleet ready as soon as possible.

3. But in this interval Demenetus, one that was of abilities

* The reason why Hyrcanus suffered not this son of his, whom he did not love,  
to come to Judta, but ordered him to be brought up in Galilee, is su gesifd
|)V ur.

Hudson, that Galilee was not esteemed so happy and well cultivated a country
as

Judea, Matt. xxvi. 73. John vii. 52. Acts ii. 7. although another obvious iva-
nr.

occurs also, that he was farther out of his sight in Galilee than be would
have been in

Judea.

