112 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XI.

ritans, and all that inhabited Celesyria, heard that the building

went on apace, they took it heinously, and proceeded to lay

snares for them, and to hinder their intentions. They also

slew many of the Jews, and sought how they might destroy Nehe-

miah himself, by hiring some of the foreigners to kill him. They

also put the Jews in fear, and disturbed them, and spread abroad

rumours, as if many nations were ready to make an expedition

against them, by which means they were harassed, and had almost

left off the building: But none of these things could deter Nehe-

miah from being diligent about the work, he only set a number

of men about him as a guard to his body, and so unweariedly

persevered therein, and was insensible of any trouble out of his

desire to perfect this work. And thus did he attentively, and

with great forecast take care of his own safety, not that he fear足

ed death, but of this persuasion, that if he were dead, the walls

for his citizens would never be raised. He also gave orders,

that the builders should keep their ranks, and have their armour

on while they were building. Accordingly, the mason had his

sword on, as well as he that brought the materials for building.

He also appointed that their shields should lie very near them;

and he placed trumpeters at every five hundred feet, and charged

them that if their enemies appeared, they should give notice of

it to the people, that they might fight in their armour, and their

enemies might*not fall upon them naked. He also went about

the compass of the city by night, being never discouraged, nei-

, ther about the work itself, nor about his own diet and sleep, for

he made no use of those things for his pleasure, but out of ne足

cessity. And this trouble he underwent for * two years and

four months: for in so long time was the wall built, in the

twenty-eigth year of the reign of Xerxes, in the ninth month.

Now when the walls were finished, Nehemiah and the multitude

offered sacrifices to God for the building of them, and they con足

tinued in feasting eight days. However, when the nations which

dwelt in Syria heard that the building of the wall was finished,

* It may not be very improper to remark here, with what an unusual accuracy  
Josephus determines these years of Xerxes, in which the walls of Jerusalem
were

built, viz. that Nehemiah came with his commission on the 25th of Xerxes; that
the

walls were two years four months in building, and that thuy were finished on
the

28th of Xerxes, sect. 7, 8. It may be also remarked farther, that Josephus
hardly

ever mentions more than one infallible astronomical character, I mean an
eclipse of

the moon, and this a little before the death of Herod the Great, Antiq. B.
XVII. ch.

vi. sect. 4. vol. III. Now on these two chronological characters in a great
measure

depend some of the most important points belonging to Christianity, viz. the
expli足

cation of Daniel's 70 weeks, and the duration of our Saviour's ministry, and
the

time of his death, in correspondence to those 70 weeks. See the supplement to
the

Lit. Accump. of Proph. page 7*'

