Chap. VI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 217

should be their leader; and that instead of Judas and Jonathan

his brethren, he should have the government over them: and they

promised that they would readily obey him in whatsoever he

should command them. So he got together immediately all his

own soldiers that were fit for war, and made haste in rebuilding

the walls of the city, and strengthening them by very high and

strong towers, and sent a friend of his, one Jonathan the son of

Absalom, to Joppa, and gave him orders to eject the inhabitants

out of the city, for he was afraid lest they should deliver up the

city to Trypho, but he himself stayed to secure Jerusalem.

5. But Trypho removed from Ptolemais with a great army,

and came into Judea, and brought Jonathan with him in bonds.

Simon also met him with his army at the city Adida, which is

upon a hill, and beneath it lie the plains of Judea. And when

Trypho knew that Simon was by the Jews made their governor,

he sent to him, and would have imposed upon him by deceit and

treachery; and desired him, if he would have his brother Jonathan

released, that he would send him a hundred talents of silver, and

two of Jonathan's sons as hostages, that when he shall be released,

he may not make Judea revolt from the king, for that at pre­

sent he was kept in bonds on account of the money he had bor­

rowed of the king, and now owed it to him. But Simon was

aware of the craft of Trypho, and although he knew that if he

gave him the money he should lose it, and that Trypho would

not set his brother free, and withal, should deliver the sons of

Jonathan to the enemy, yet because he was afraid that he should

have a calumny raised against him among the multitude as the

cause of his brother's death, if he neither gave the money, nor

sent Jonathan's sons, he gathered his army together, and told

them what offers Trypho had made, and added this, that the

offers were ensnaring and treacherous, and yet that it was more

eligible to send the money and Jonathan's sons than to be liable

to the imputation of not complying with Trypho's offers, and

thereby refusing to save his brother. Accordingly, Simon sent

the sons of Jonathan and the money; but when Trypho had re­

ceived them, he did not keep his promise, nor set Jonathan free,

but took his army, and went about all the country, and resolved

to go afterward to Jerusalem by the way of Idumea, while Si­

mon went over against him with his army, and all along pitch­

ed his own camp over against his.

6. But when those that were in the citadel had sent to Try­

pho, and besought him to make haste and come to them, and to

send them provisions, he prepared his cavalry as though he would

be at Jerusalem that very night, but so great a quantity of snow

fell in the night, that it covered the roads, and made them so deep,

that there was no passing, especially for the cavalry. This

