Chap. XV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 311

the forces that were about him, and immediately drove back the

enemy; by which means he made the minds of his own men

courageous, and emboldened Intern to go on, insomuch that those

who ran away before, now returned back, and the Barbarians

were slain on all sides. The king also went on killing them, and

recovered all the baggage, among which were a great number

of beasts for burden, and of slaves, and proceeded on in his

march; and whereas there were a very great number of those in

the woods that attacked them, and were near the passage that

letl into the plain, he made a sally upon these also with a strong

body of men; and put them to flight, and slew many of them,

and thereby rendered the way safe for those that came after;

and these called Herod their saviour and protector.

9. And when he was near to Samosata, Antony sent out his

army in all their proper habiliments to meet him, in order to

pay Herod this respect, and because of the assistance he had given

him, for he had heard what attacks the Barbarians had made

upon him [in Judea.] He also was very glad to see him there,

as having been made acquainted with the great actions he had

performed upon the road: so he entertained him very kindly,

and could not but admire his courage. Antony also embraced

him as soon as he saw him, and saluted him after a most affection足

ate manner, and gave him the upper hand, as having himself late足

ly made him a king; and in a little time Antiochus delivered up

the fortress, and on that account this war was at an end; then

Antony committed the rest to Sosius, and gave him orders to

assist Herod, and went himself to Egypt. Accordingly Sosius

sent two legions before into Judea to the assistance of Herod,

and he followed himself with the body of the army.

10. Now Joseph was already slain in Judea, in the manner

following: He forgot what charge. his brother Herod had given

him when he went to Antony; and when he had pitched his

camp among the mountains; for Macherus had lent him five

regiments, with these he went hastily to Jericho, in order to

reap the corn thereto belonging: and as the Roman regiments

were but newly raised, and were unskilful in war, for they were

in great part collected out of Syria, he was attacked by the ene足

my, and caught in those places of difficulty, and was himself

slain, as he was fighting bravely, and the whole army was lost,

for there were six regiments slain. So when Antigonus had got

possession of the dead bodies, he cut off Joseph's head, although

Pheroras his brother would have redeemed it at the price of

fifty talents. After which defeat the Galileans revolted from

their commanders, and took those of Herod's party, and drowned

them in the lake, and a great part of Judea was become sedi足

tious; but Macherus fortified the place Gitta [in Samaria.]

