Chnp. IX. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JF.W8. 179

may well wonder at this concerning the misfortune that befell

the forces commanded by Joseph and Azarias, which he under­

stood would happen, if they broke any of the injunctions he had

given them. But Judas and his brethren, did not leave off fight­

ing with the Idumeans, but pressed upon them on all sides, and

took from them the city of Hebron, and demolished all its forti­

fications, and set all its towers on fire, and burnt the country of

the foreigners, and the city Marissa. They came also to Ash-

dod, and took it, and laid it waste, and took away a great deal

of the spoils and prey that were in it, and returned to Judea.

CHAP. IX.

Concerning the death of Antiochus Epiphanes. How Antiochus

Eupator fought against Judas, and besieged him in the temple,

and afterwards made peace with him and departed. Of Alci-

mus and Onias.

§ 1. ABOUT this time it was that king Antiochus, as he was

going over the upper countries, heard, that there was a very

rich city in Persia, called Etymais ,' and therein a very rich

temple of Diana, and that it was full of all sorts of donations

dedicated to it; as also weapons and breastplates, which,

upon inquiry, he found had been left there by Alexander,

the son of Philip, king of Macedonia. And being incited by

these motives, he went in haste to Elymais, and assaulted it, and

besieged it. But as those that were in it were not terrified at

his assault, nor at his siege, but opposed him very courageously,

he was beaten off his hopes; for they drove him away from the

city, and went out and pursued after him; insomuch that he fled

away as far as Babylon, and lost a great many of his army. And

when he was grieving for this disappointment, some persons

told him of the defeat of his commanders whom he had left behind

him to fight against Judea, and what strength the Jews had

already gotten: When this concern about these affairs was added

to the former, he was confounded, and by the anxiety he was in,

fell into a distemper, which, as it lasted a great while, and as his

pains increased upon him, so he at length perceived he should

die in a little time; so he called his friends to him, and told

them, thathisdistemperwas severe upon him; and confessed with­

al, that this calamity was sent upon him for the miseries he had

brought upon the Jewish nation, while he plundered their tem­

ple, and contemned their God, and when he had said this, he

gave up the ghost. Whence one may wonder at Polybius of

Megalopolis, who, though otherwise a good man, yet saith,

That " Antiochus died because he had a purpose to plunder

VOL. n. z 21

