418 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVI.

6. About this time there came an ambassador out of Cappa-

docia from Archelaus, whose name was Melas; he was one of

the prmcipal rulers under him. So Herod being desirous to

show Archelaus' ill-will to him, called for Alexander, as he

was in his bonds, and asked him again concerning his flight,

whither and how they had resolved to retire? Alexander re­

plied, "To Archelaus, who had promised to send them away

"to Rome, but that they had no wicked nor mischievous de-

"signs against their father, and that nothing of that nature

'' which their adversaries had charged upon them was true;

"and that their desire was, that he might have examined Ty-

"rannus, and Jucundus, more strictly, but that they had been

"suddenly slain by the means of Antipater, who put his own

"friends among the multitude [for that purpose]."

7. When this was said, Herod commanded that both Alexan-

der and Melas should be carried to Glaphyra, Archelaus' daugh­

ter, and that she should be asked, whether she did not know

somewhat of Alexander's treacherous designs against Herod?

Now as soon as they were come to her, and she saw Alexander

in bonds, she beat her head, and in a great consternation, gave

a deep and moving groan. The young man also fell into tears.

This was so miserable a spectacle to those present, that, for a

great while, they were not able to say or do any thing; but at

length Ptolemy, who was ordered to bring Alexander, bid him

say, whether his wife were conscious of his actions? He re­

plied, " How is it possible that she, whom I love better than my

"own soul, and by whom I have had children, should not know

"what I do?" Upon which she cried out, That "she knew of

"no wicked designs of his; but that yet, if her accusing herself

"falsely would tend to his preservation, she would confess it

"all." Alexander replied, "There is no such wickedness as

"those (who ought the least of all so to do) suspect, which either

"I have imagined, or thou knowest of, but this only, that we

"had resolved to retire to Archelaus, and from thence to Rome."

Which she also confessed. Upon which Herod, supposing that

Archelaus' ill-will to him was fully proved, he sent a letter by

Olympus and Volumnius; and bid them, as they sailed by, to

touch at Eleusa of Cilicia, and give Archelaus the letter. And

that when they had expostulated with him that had a hand

in his son's treacherous design against him, they should from

thence sail to Rome; and that, in case they found Nicolaus had

gained any ground, and that Czesar was no longer displeased

at him, he should give him his letters, and the proofs which he

had ready to show against the young men. As to Archelaus he

made this defence for himself, That " he had promised to re-

"ceive the young men, because it was both for their own and

