190 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIV.

to Anlipater, which when he perceived, he retired beyond Jordan,

and got together an army, partly of Arabs, and partly of his

own countrymen. However Mulichus being one of great cun­

ning, denied that he had laid any snares for him, and made his

defence with an oath, both to himself and his sons; and said, that

while Phasaelus had a garrison in Jerusalem, and Herod had the

weapons of war in his custody, he could never have a thought

of any such thing. So Antipater, perceiving the distress that

Malichus was in, was reconciled to him, and made an agree­

ment with him; this was when Marcus was president of Syria;

who yet perceiving that this Malichus was making a disturbance

in Judea, proceeded so far that he had almost killed him, but

still at the intercession of Antipater he saved him.

4. However, Antipater little thought that by saving Mali­

chus, he had saved his own murderer: for now Cassius and

Marcus had got together an army, and intrusted the entire care

of it with Herod, and made him general of the Ibrces ot Ccele-

syria, and gave him a fleet of ships, and an army of horsemen

and footmen; and promised him, that after the war was over

they would make him king of Judea, for a war was already be­

gun between Antony and the younger Cassar; But as Malichus

was most afraid of Antipater, he took him out of the way; and

by the offer of money, persuaded the butler of Hyrcanus, with

whom they were both to feast, to kill him by poison. This

being done, and he having armed men with him, settled the af­

fairs of the city. But when Antipater's sons, Herod and Pha-

saalus, were acquainted with this conspiracy against their father,

and had indignation at it, Malichus denied all, and utterly re­

nounced any knowledge of the murder. And thus died Anti­

pater, a man that had distinguished himself for piety and justice,

and love to his country. And whereas one of his sons, Herod,

resolved immediately to revenge their father's death, and was

coming upon Malichus with an army for that purpose, the el­

der of his sons, Phasaelus, thought it best rather to get this man

into their hands by policy, lest they should appear to begin a

civil war in the country; so he accepted of Malichus' defence

for himself, and pretended to believe him that he had no hand

in the violent death of Antipater his father, but erected a fine

monument for him. Herod also went to Samaria, and when he

found them in great distress, he revived their spirits, and com­

posed their differences.

5. However, a little after this, Herod, upon the approach o[

a festival, came with his soldiers unto the city; whereupon Mp-

liclms was affrighted, and persuaded Hyrcanus not to permit

him to come into the city. Hyrcanus complied; and, for a

pretence of excluding him, alleged, that a rout of strangers

