190 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. BookXIIL

BOOK XIII.

CONTAINING THE INTERVAL oi? EIGHTY-TWO YEAH*.

[FROM THE DEATH OF JUDAS MACCABEES, TO THE

DEATH OF QUEEN ALEXANDRA.]

CHAP. I.

Hem Jonathan took the government after his brother Judas, and

hchsi he, together with his brother Simon, imaged \siar against

Baechides.

§ 1. BY what means the nation of the Jews recovered their

freedom when they had been brought into slavery by the Ma­

cedonians, and what struggles, and how great battles Judas the

feneral of their army rail through, till he was slain as he was

ghting for them, hath been related in the foregoing book; but

after he was dead, all the wicked, and those that transgressed the

laws of their forefathers, sprang up again in Judea, and grew

upon them and distressed them on every side. A famine also

assisted their wickedness, and afflicted the country, till not a few,

who by reason of their want of necessaries, and because they

were not able to bear up the miseries that both the famine

and their enemies brought upon them, deserted their country,

and went to the Macedonians. And now Bacchides gathered

those Jews together who had apostatized from the accustomed

way of living of their forefathers, and chose to live like their

neighbours, and committed the care of the country to them,

who also caught the friends of Judas, and those of his party,

and delivered them up to Bacchides, who, when he had, in the

first place tortured and tormented them at his pleasure, he, by

that means at length killed them. And when this calamity of

the Jews was become so great, as they had never had expe­

rience of the like since their return out of Babylon, those that

remained of the companions of Judas, seeing that the nation

was ready to be destroyed after a miserable manner, came to

his brother Jonathan, and desired him that he would imitate hi»

brother, and that care which he took of his countrymen, for

whose liberty in general he died also; and that he would not

permit the nation to be. without a governor, especially in those

destructive circumstances wherein it now was. And when Jon­

