Chap. XV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 309

doing: but the letting the chest down proved to be a matter of

great danger, because of the vast depth they were to be let down,

although they had their provisions in the chests themselves: but

when the chests were let down, and not one of those in the

mouths of the caves durst come rear them, but lay still out ot

fear, some of the armed men girt on their armour, and by

both their hands took h. Id of the chain, by which the chests were

let down, and went in'.o the moutl:s of the caves, because they

fretted that such c!ehiy w- s made by the robbers not daring to

come out of the caves; and when they were at any of those

mouths, they first killed many of those that were in the mouths

with their darts, and afterwards pulled those to them that resisted

them with their hooks, and tumbled them down the precipices,

and afterwards went into the caves, and killed many more, and

then went into their chests again, and lay still there; but upon

this, terror seized the rest, when they heard the lamentations

that were made, and they despaired of escaping: however,

when the night came on, that put an end to the whole work; and

as the king proclaimed pardon by a herald to such as delivered

themselves up to him, many accepted of the offer. The same

method of assault was made use of the next day; and they went

farther, and got out in baskets to fight them, and sought them

at their doors, and sent fire among them, and set their caves on

fire, for there was a great deal of combustible matter within them.

Now there was one old man who was caught within one of these

caves, with seven children and a wife; these prayed him to

give them leave to go out, and yield themselves up to the ene­

my, but he stood at the cave's mouth, and always slew that

child of his who went out, till he had destroyed them every one,

and after that he slew his wife, and cast their dead bodies down

the precipice, and himself after them, and so underwent death

rather than slavery: but before he did this, he greatly reproach­

ed Herod with the meanness of his family, although he was

then king. Herod also saw what he was doing, and stretched out

his hand, and offered him all manner of security for his life: By

which means all these caves were at length subdued entirely.

6. And when the king had set Ptolemy over these parts of

the country as his general, he went to Samaria, with six hun­

dred horsemen, and three thousand armed footmen, as intend­

ing to fight Antigonus. But still this command of the army did

'not succeed well with Ptolemy, but those that had been trouble­

some to Galilee before attacked him, and slew him; and when

they had done this, they fled among the lakes and places al­

most inaccessible, laying waste and plundering whatsoever they

could come at in those places. But Herod soon returned, and

punished them for what they had done; for some of these re­

