364 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEW*. Book XV.

be sufficient for a haven, wherein the great ships might lie in

safety; and this he effected by letting down vast stones of above

fifty feet in length, not less than eighteen in breadth, and nine in

depth, into twenty fathom deep, and as some were lesser, so were

others bigger than those dimensions. This mole which he built

by the sea side was two hundred feet wide, the half of which was

opposed to the current of the waves, so as to keep off those waves

which were to break upon them, and so was called Procymatia,

or the first breaker of the waves, but the other half had upon it

a wall, with several towers, the largest of which was named

Drusus, and was a work of very great excellence, and had its

name from Drusus, the son-in-law of Caesar, who died young.

There were also a great number of arches where the mariners

dwelt. There were also before them a key [or landing place,]

which ran round the entire haven, and was a most agreeable

walk to such as had a mind to that exercise; but the entrance or

mouth of the port was made on the north quarter, on which side

'was the stillest of the winds of all in this place: and the basis of

the whole circuit on the left hand, as you enter the port, sup­

ported a round turret, which was made very strong, in order to

resist the greatest waves, while on the right hand, as you enter,

stood two vast stones, and those each of them larger than the

turret, which was over against them: these stood upright, and

were joined together. Now there were edifices all along the

circular haven, made of the polished stone, with a certain eleva­

tion, whereon was erected a temple, that was seen a great way

off by those that were sailing for that haven, and had in it two

statues, the one of Rome, the other of Caesar. As the city it­

self was called Caasarea, which was also itself built of fine ma­

terials, and was of a fine structure; nay, the very subterranean

vaults and cellars had no less of architecture bestowed on them

than had the buildings above ground. Some of these vaults car­

ried things at even distances to the haven and to the sea, but one

of them ran obliquely, and bound all the rest together, that both

the rain and the filth of the citizens were together carried off

with ease, and the sea itself, upon the flux of the tide from

without, came into the city, and washed it all clean. Herod also

built therein a theatre of stone; and on the south quarter,

behind the port, an amphitheatre also, capable of holding a

vast number of men, and conveniently situated for a prospect

to the sea. So this city was thus finished in * twelve years;

* Cxsarea being here said to be rebuilt and adorned in twelve years, and soon  
afterwards in ten years, Antiq. B. XVI. ch. v. sect. 1. there must be a
mistake in

one of the places as to the true number, but which of them it is hard
positively to

determine.

