81* ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIV.

he pitched that camp before the temple, intending to make his

attacks in the same manner as did Pompey; so he encompassed

the place with three bulwarks, and erected towers, and em­

ployed a great many hands about the work, and cut down the

trees that were round about the city; and when he had ap­

pointed proper persons to oversee the works, even while the

army lay before the city, he himself went to Samaria, to com­

plete his marriage, and to take to wife the daughter of Alex­

ander, the son of Aristobulus; for he had betrothed her already,

as I have before related.

CHAP. XVI.

How Herod, when he had man-led Mariamne, took Jerusalem,

-with the assistance of Sosius, by force; and how the govern­  
ment of the Asamoneans was put an end to.

§ 1. AFTER the wedding was over, came Sosius through

Phenicia, having sent out his army before him over the mid­

land parts. He also, who was their commander, came him­

self, with a great number of horsemen and footmen. The

king also came himself from Samaria, and brought with him no

small army, besides that which was there before, for they were

about thirty thousand: and they all met together at the walls of

Jerusalem, and encamped at the north wall of the city, being

now an army of eleven legions, armed men on foot, and six

thousand horsemen, with other auxiliaries out of Syria. The

generals were two, Sosius, sent by Antony to assist Herod, and

Herod on his own account, in order to take the government from

Antigonus, who was declared an enemy at Rome, and that he

might himself be king, according to the decree of the senate.

2. Now the Jews that were inclosed within the walls of the

city fought against Herod with great alacrity and zeal, (for the

whole nation was gathered together;) they also gave out many

prophecies about the temple, and many things agreeable to the

people, as if God would deliver them out of the dangers they were

in; they had also carried off what was out of the city, that they

might not leave any thing to afford sustenance either for men or

lor beasts: and by private robberies, they made the want of ne­

cessaries greater. When Herod understood this, he opposed am­

bushes in the fittest places against their private robberies, and he

sent legions of armed men to bring in provisions, and that from

remote places, so that in a little time they had great plenty of pro­

visions. Now the three bulwarks were easily erected, because so

many hands were continually at work upon them; for it was sum­

mer time, and there was nothing to hinder them in raising the:r

