Chap. VIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 131

ander; and finding him beginning the siege of Tyre, he said to

him, that he delivered up to him these men, who came out of

places under his dominion, and did gladly accept of him for his

lord, instead of Darius. So when Alexander had received him

kindly, Sanballat thereupon took courage, and spake to him

about his present affair. He told him, That "he had a son-in-

"law, Manasseh, who was brother to the high priest Jaddua s

"and that there were many others of his own nation, now with

"him, that were desirous to have a temple in the same places

"subject to him: that it would be for the king's advantage to

"have the strength of the Jews divided into two parts, lest when

"the nation is of one mind, and united, upon any attempt for

"innovation, it prove troublesome to kings, as it had formerly

"proved to the kings of Assyria." Whereupon Alexander gave

Sanballat leave so to do, who used the utmost diligence, and

built the temple, and made Manasseh the priest, and deemed it

a great reward, that his daughter's children should have that

dignity: but when the seven months of the siege of Tyre were

over, and the two months of the siege of Gaza, Sanballat died.

Now Alexander, when he had taken Gaza, made haste to go up

to Jerusalem : and Jaddua the high priest, when he heard that,

was in an agony, and under terror, as not knowing how he

should meet the Macedonians, since the king was displeased at

his foregoing disobedience. He therefore ordained that the

people should make supplications, and should join with him in

offering sacrifice to God, whom he besought to protect that na­

tion, and to deliver them from the perils that were coming up­

on them j Whereupon God warned him in a dream, which came

upon him after he had offered sacrifice, That " he should take

"courage, and adorn the city, and open the gates ; that the rest

"should appear in white garments, but that he and the priests

"should meet the king in the habits proper to their order,

"without the dread of any ill consequences, which the provi-

"dence of God would prevent." Upon which, when he rose from

his sleep, he greatly rejoiced; and declared to all the warning

he had received from God. According to which dream hei act­

ed entirely, and so waited for the coming of the king.

5. And when he understood that he was not far from the cityy

he went out in procession, with the priests and the multitude of

the citizens. The procession was venerable, and the manner of

it different from that of other nations. It reached to a place

called Sapha, which name translated into Greek, signifies a pros­

pect, for you have thence a prospect both of Jerusalem and of

the temple; and when the Phenicians and the Chaldeans ; that

followed him, thought they should have liberty to plunder the

city, and torment the high priest to death, which the king's dis­

pleasure fairly promised them, the very reverse of it happened;

VOL. n. K 19

