Chap. II. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 147

on which an acclamation was made by the whole company, with

joy and a great noise; and when that was over, they fell to eat­

ing their supper, and to the enjoyment of what was set before

them. And at a little interval afterward, when the king thought

a sufficient time had been interposed, he began to talk philoso­

phically to them, and he asked every one of them a * philoso­

phical question, and such an one as might give light in those in­

quiries; and when they had explained all the problems that had

been proposed by the king about every point, he was well pleased

with their answers. This took up the twelve days in which they

were treated: and he that pleases may learn the particular ques­

tions in that book of Aristeus', which he wrote on this very

occasion.

13. And while not the king only, but the philosopher Mene-

demus also admired them, and said, " that all things were go-

"verned by providence : and that it was probable that thence

"it was that such force or beauty was discovered in these

"men's words," they then left off asking any more such ques­

tions. But the king said that he had gained very great advan­

tages by their coming, for that he had received this profit from

them, that he had learned how he ought to rule his subjects.

And he gave order that they should have every one three ta­

lents given them, and that those that were to conduct them to

their lodging should do it. Accordingly, when three days were

over, Demetrius took them, and went over the causeway seven

furlongs long: It was a bank in the sea to an island. And when

they had gone over the bridge, he proceeded to the northern

parts and showed them where they should meet, which was ir

a house which was built near the shore, and was a quiet place,

and fit for their discoursing together about their work. When

he had brought them thither, he entreated them, (now they had

all things about them which they wanted for the interpretation

of their law) that they would suffer nothing to interrupt them

in their work. Accordingly, they made an accurate interpre­

tation, with great zeal and great pains, and this they continued

to do till the ninth hour of the day; after which time they re­

laxed, and took care of their body, while their food was pro­

vided for them in great plenty: besides, Dorotheus, at the king's

command, brought them a great deal of what was provided for

the king himself. But in the morning they came to the court,

and saluted Ptolemy and then went away to their former place,

where, when they hadf washed their hands, and purified them­

* They were rather political questions and answers, tending to the good and re­  
ligious government of mankind.

')' This purification of the interpreters by washing in the sea, before they

prayed to God every morning, and I efore they set about translating., may be

VOL. II. T 19

