Chap. VI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 339

bians fled; and so great a slaughter was made upon their being

routed, that they were not only killed by their enemies, but

became the authors of their own deaths also, and were trodden

down by the multitude, and the great current of people in dis­

order, and were destroyed by their own armour; so five thou­

sand men lay dead upon the spot, while the rest of the multi­

tude soon ran within the bulwark [for safety,] but had no firm

hope of safety, by reason of their want of necessaries, and es­

pecially of water. The Jews pursued them; but could not get

in with them, but sat round about the bulwark, and watched

any assistance that would get in to them, and prevented any there,

that had a mind to it, from running away.

5. When the Arabians were in these circumstances, they sent

ambassadors to Herod, in the first place to propose terms of ac­

commodation, and after that to offer him, so pressing was their

thirst upon them, to undergo whatsoever he pleased, if he would

free them from their present distress; but he would admit of no

ambassadors, of no price of redemption, nor of any other mode­

rate terms whatever, being very desirous to revenge those unjust

actions which they had been guilty of towards his nation. So

they were necessitated by other motives, and particularly by their

thirst, to come out, and deliver themselves up to him, to be car­

ried away captives; and in five days' time, the number of four

thousand were taken prisoners, while all the rest resolved to make

a sally upon their enemies, and to fight it out with them, choos­

ing rather, if so it must be, to die therein, than to perish gradu­

ally and ingloriously. When they had taken this resolution,

they came out of their trenches, but could no way sustain the

fight, being too much disabled, both in mind and body, and hav­

ing not room to exert themselves, and thought it an advantage

to bekilled, and a misery to survive; so at the first onset there fell

about seven thousand of them, after which stroke, they let all the

courage they had put on before fall, and stood amazed at Herod's

'warlike spirit under his own calamities; so for the future, they

yielded, and made him ruler of their nation; whereupon he was

greatly elevated at so seasonable a success, and returned home

taking great authority upon him, on account of so bold and glo­

rious an expedition as he had made.

CHAP. VI.

Haw Herod slew Hyrcanus, and then hasted away to Ctesar, and

obtained the kingdom from him also; and how a little time af­

terward, he entertained Ctxsar in a most honourable manner.

$ 1. .HEROD'S other affairs were now very prosperous; and

he was not to be easily assaulted on any side. Yet did there

VOL. iI. u u' 25

