Chap. XII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 39

tribute a hundred talents and ten thousand cori of wheat, and

as many of barley, every year, and so augmented his kingdom,

that his enemies could not despise it, and his own people lived

happily.

3. Now there was at that time a prophet, whose name was Na-

hum, who spake after this manner concerning the overthrow of

the Assyrians, and Nineveh: "* Nineveh shall be a pool of

"water in motion; so shall all her people be troubled, and toss-

"ed, and go away by flight, while they say one to another, Stand,

"stand still, seize their gold and silver, for there shall be no one

"to wish them well, for they will rather save their lives than

"their money; for a terrible contention shall possess them one

"with another, and lamentation; and loosing of the members,

"and their countenances shall be perfectly black with fear.

"And there will be the den of the lions, and the mother of the

"young lions! God says to thee. Nineveh, that they shall de-

"face thee, and the lion shall no longer go out from thee to give

"laws to the world." And indeed this prophet prophesied

many other things besides these concerning Nineveh, which I do

not think necessary to repeat, and I here omit them that I may

not appear troublesome to my readers; all which things hap­

pened about Nineveh a hundred and fifteen years afterwards;

so this may suffice to have spoken of these matters.

CHAP. XII.

Haw upon the death of Jotham, Ahaz reigned in his stead ,' a-

gainst whom Rezin, king of Syria, and PeJcah, king of Israel

made war ,' and how Tiglath-Pileser, king of Assyria, came to

the assistance of Ahaz, and laid Syria waste, and removing

the Damascenes into Media placed other nations in their room.

$ 1. _N ow Jotham died when he had lived forty-one years,

and of them reigned sixteen, and was buried in the sepulchres

of the kings; and the kingdom came to his son Ahaz, who

proved most impious towards God, and a transgressor of the

laws of his country. He imitated the kings of Israel, and rear­

ed altars in Jerusalem, and offered sacrifices upon them to idols;

to which also he offered his own son as a burnt-offering, accord­

ing to the practices of the Canaanites. His other actions were

* This passage is taken out of the prophet Nahum, chap. ii. 8—13. and is  
the principal, or rather the only one that is given us almost verbatim, but a

little abridged, in all Josephus' known writings: By which quotation, we learn

that he himself always asserts, viz, that he made use of the Hebrew original,

[and not of the Greek vertionl ; as also we learn, that his Hebrew copy
consider­

ably differed from ours. See all three texts particularly set down and
compared

together in the Essay on the Old Test. page. 187.

