Chap. VIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 2?t

freedom from taxes every where: and it is reported by many,

that Hyrcanus went along with Antipater in this expedition,

and came himself into Egypt. And Strabo of Capadocia bears

witness to this, when he says thus, in the name of Asinius;

"After Mithridates had invaded Egypt, and with him Hyrcan-

** us the high priest of the Jews." Nay, the same Strabo says  
thus again, in another place, in the name of Hypsicrates, that

"Mithridates at first went out alone, but that Antipater, who

"had the care of the Jewish affairs, was called by him to As-

"kelon, and that he had gotten- ready three thousand soldiers

"to go along with him, and encouraged other governors of the

"country to go along with him also; and that Hyrcanus the

"high priest, was also present in this expedition." This is what

Strabo says.

4. But Antigonus, the son of Aristobulus, came at this time

to Caesar, and " lamented his father's fate: and complained that

"it was by Antipater's means that Aristobulus was taken off

"by poison, and his brother was beheaded by Scipio, and de-

"sired that he would take pity of him who had been ejected

"out of that principality which was due to him." He also

accused Hyrcanus and Antipater as governing the nation by

violence, and offering injuries to him. Antipater was pre­

sent, and made his defence as to the accusations that were laid

against him. He demonstrated, that " Antigonus and his party

"were given to innovation, and were seditious persons. He also

"put Cuesar in mind what difficult services he had undergone,

"when he assisted him in his wars, and discoursed about what

"he was a witness of himself. He added, that Aristobulus was

"justly carried away to Rome, as one that was an enemy to the

"Romans, and could never be brought to be a friend to them,

"and that his brother had no more than he deserved from Sci-

"pio, as being seized in committing robberies; and that this

"punishment was not inflicted on him in a way of violence or

"injustice by him that did it."

5. When Antipater had made this speech, Caesar appointed

Hyrcanus to be high priest; and gave Antipater what princi-

dality he himself should choose, leaving the determination to

himself: So he made him procurator of Judea. He also gave

Hyrcanus leave to raise up the walls of his own city, upon his

asking that favour of him, for they had been demolished by Pom-

pey. And this grant he sent to the consuls to Rome, to be en­

graven in the capitol. The * decree of the senate was this that

* Take Dr. Hudson's note upon this place, which I suppose to be the truth:  
"Here is some mistake in Josephus: for when he had promised us a decree for
the

"restoration of Jerusalem, he brings in a decree of far greater antiquity, and
that

"H league of friendship and union only. One may easily believe that Joseuhuc

