352 ANTIQUITIES OF THE IEWS. Book XV.

over the Idumeans, and somewhat more also; for he raised his

hopes still higher, as having no small pretences, both by his

birth and by these riches, which he had gotten by his constant

attention to filthy lucre; and accordingly it was not a small

matter that he aimed at. So Cleopatra desired this country of

Antony, but failed of her purpose. An account of this was

brought to Herod, who was thereupon ready to kill Costobarus,

yet upon the entreaties of his sister and mother, he forgave him,

and vouchsafed to pardon him entirely, though he still had a sus­

picion of him afterward for this his attempt.

10. But some time afterward, when Salome happened to quar­

rel with Costobarus, she * sent him & bill of divorce, and dis=j.

solved her marriage with him, though this was not according to

the Jewish laws; for with us it is lawful for a husband to do

so; but a wife, if she departs from her husband, cannot of her­

self be married to another, unless her former husband put her

away. However, Salome chose to follow not the law of her

Country, but the law of her authority, and so renounced her

wedlock: and told her brother Herod, that she left her husband

Aut of her good-will to him, because she perceired that he, with

>wintipater and Lysimachus, and Dositheus, were raising a sedi-

e- tion against him: as an evidence whereof, she alleged the case

of the sons of Babas, that they had been by him preserved alive

already for the interval of twelve years; which proved to be

true. But when Herod thus unexpectedly heard of it, he was

greatly surprised at it, and was the more surprised, because the

relation appeared incredible to him. As for the fact relating to

these sons of Babas, Herod had formerly taken great pains to

bring them to punishment, as being enemies to his government,

but they were now forgotten by him, on account of the length of

time [since he had ordered them to be slain.] Now, the cause

of his ill-will and haired to them arose hence, that while Anti-

gonus was king, Herod with his army, besieged the city of Je-

* Here is a plain example of a Jewibh lady giving a bill of divorce lo her hus-  
hand, though in the days of Josephus it was not esteemed lawful for a woman so
to

d<>. See the like among the Parthians, Antiq. B. XVIII. ch. ix. sect. 6.
However,

the Christian law, when it allowed divorce for adultery, Matt. v. 32. allowed
the

innocent wife to divorce her guilty husband, as well as the innocent husband
to di­

vorce his guilty wit'i-, as we learn from the shepherd of Hermes, Aland. B.
IV. and

fjom the second apology of Justin Martyr, where a persecution was brought upon

the Christians upon such a divorce; and I think the Roman laws permitted it at

that time, as well as the laws of Christianity. Now this Bal-as, who was one
of the

race of the Asamoncans or Maccabees, as the latter end of this section informs
us, is

related by ihe Jews, as Dr. Hudson here remarks, to have been «o eminently
religious

in the Jewish way, that the day following th« tenth of Tisri, the great day of

atonement, when he seems to hare supposed all his sins entirely forgiven, he
used

every day of the whole year to oiler a sacrifice for his sins of ignorance, or
such as

he supposed he had been guilty of, but did not distinctly rcmcmler. See
somewhat

like it of Agrippathc Great, Aniiq. B. XIX. ch. iii. sect. 3. vol. III. and
Job. i. 4, S.

