226 ANTIQUITIES X>F THE JEWS. Book XIII.

tress of his army. After this he took Samega, and the neigh­

bouring places; and besides these, Shechem and Gerizzim, and

the nation of the Cutheans, who dwelt at the temple which A-.

lexander permitted Sanballat, the general of his army, to build

for the sake of Manasseh, who was son-in-law to Jaddua the

high priest, as we have formerly related; which temple was

now deserted two hundred years after it was built. Hyrcanus

took also Dora and Marissa, cities of Idume.a, and subdued all

the Idumeans; and permitted them to stay in that country, if

they would circumcise their genitals, and make use of the laws

of the Jews; and they were so desirous of living in the country

of their forefathers, that they * submitted to the use of circum­

cision, and of the rest of the Jewish ways of living; at which

time therefore this befell them, that they were hereaiter no other

than Jews.

2. But Hyrcanus the high priest was desirous to renew that

league of friendship they had with the Romans. Accordingly he

sent an embassage to them: and when the senate had received

their epistle, they made a league of friendship with them, after

the manner following: " Fanius, the son of Marcus the pretor,

"gathered the senate together on the eighth day before the ides

"of February, in the senate house, when Lucius Manlius, the

"son of Lucius, of the Mentine tribe, and Caius Sempronius,

"the son of Caius, of the Falernian tribe, were present. The

* This account of the Idumeans. addmitting circumcision, and the entire Jew­  
ish law, from this time, or from the days of Hyrcanus, is confirmed by their
entire

history afterward. See Antiq. B. XIV. ch. viii. sec. I. B. XV. ch. vii. sec.
9. vol.

II. Of the War, B. II. ch. iii. sec. 1. vol. III. B. IV. ch. iv. sec. 5. vol.
IV. This,

in the opinion of Josephus, made them proselytes of justice, or entire Jews,
as here

and elsewhere, Antiq. B. XIV. ch. viii. sec. 1. However, Antigonus, the enemy

of Herod, though Herod were derived from such a proselyte of justice for
several

generations, will allow him to be no more than a half Jew, B. XIV. ch. xv. §
2. But

still take out of Dean Prideaux, at the year 129, the words of Ammonias a
gram,

rnarian, which fully confirms this account of the Idumeans in Josephus. " The
Jews,

"says he, are such by nature, and from the beginning, whilst the Idumeans were

"not Jews from the beginning, but Phenicians and Syrians; but being afterward

"subdued by the Jews, and compelled to be circumcised, and to unite into one
na-

"tion, and be subject to the same laws, they were called Jews." Dio also says,
as the

Dean there quotes him, from book XXXVI. p. 37. "That country is called

"Judea, and the people Jews; and this name is given also to as many others

"as embrace their religion, though of other nations." But then upon what

foundation so good a governor as Hyrcanus took- upon him to compel those Idu­

means either to become Jews or to leave the country, deserves great considera­

tion. I suppose it was because they had long ago been driven out of the land

of Edom, and seized on and possessed the tribe of Simeon, and all the southern

parts of the tribe of Judah, which was the peculiar inheritance of the
worship­

pers of the true God without idolatry, as the reader may learn from Reland,

Palestine, part I. p. 154, 305. and from Prideaux, at thejears 140, and 165.

