Chap. XI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. $$

to them, bat, as he was wont, he stood and prayed to. God in

the sight of them all: but the princes having met with the oo

casion they so earnestly sought to find against Daniel, came pre­

sently to the king, and accused him, that Daniel was the only

person'that transgressed the decree, while not one of the rest

durst pray to their gods. This discovery they made, not be­

cause of his impiety, but because they had watched him, and ob­

served him out of envy; for supposing that Darius did thus out

of a greater kindness to him than they expected, and that he was

ready to grant him pardon for this contempt of his injunctions,

and envying this very pardon to Daniel, they did not become

more favourable to him, but desired he might be cast into the

den of lions according to the law. .So Darius, hoping that God

would deliver him, and that he would undergo nothing that was

terrible by the wild beasts, bid him bear this accident 'cheerful­

ly: And when he was cast into the den, Jie put his seal to the

stone that lay upon the mouth of the den, and went iiis way; but

he passed all the night without food, and without sleep, being in

great distress for Daniel. But when it was day, he got up, and

came to the den, and found the seal entire, which he had left the

stone sealed withal; he also opened the seal, and cried out, and

called to Daniel, and asked him, If he were alive? And as soon

as he heard the king's voice, and said that he had suffered no

harm, the king gave order that he should be drawn up out of tho

den. Now when his enemies saw that Daniel had suffered no­

thing which was terrible, they would not own that he was pre­

served by God, and by his providence; but they said, that the

lions had been filled full with food, and on that account it was,

»s they supposed, that the lions would not touch Daniel, nor

come to him; and" this they alleged to the king: But the king,

out of an abhorrence of their wickedness, gave order, that they

should throw in a great deal of flesh to the lions; and when they

had nlled themselves, he gave farther order that Daniel's ene­

mies should be cast into the den, that he might learn whether

the lions, now they were full, would touch them or not. And

it appeared plain to Darius, after the princes had been cast to

the wild beasts, that it was God who preserved Daniel, * for the

lions spared none of them, but tore them all to pieces, as they

had been very hungry, and wanted food. I suppose therefore

* It is no way improbable that Daniel's enemies might suggest this reason to the  
king, why the lions did not meddle with him, and that they suspected the
king's kind­

ness to Daniel had procured these lions to be so filled beforehand, and that
thence

H was that be encouraged Daniel to submit to this experiment, in hopes of
coming

off safe; and that this was the true reason of makhig so terrible an
experiment up­

on those his" enemies, and all their t'iuuilies, Dan. Ti. 21.' though our
other copiw

do not directly take notice of it.

