212 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIII.

"were satisfied about it from the sacred writings, yet did

"not we think fit, first to begin the claim of this relation to you,

"lest we should seem too early in taking to ourselves the glory

"which is now given us by you. It is a long time since this

"relation of ours to you hath been renewed; and when we,

"upon holy and festival days, offer sacrifices to God, we pray

"to him for your preservation and victory. As to ourselves,

"although we have had many wars that have compassed us

"around, by reason of the covetousness of our neighbours, yet

"did we not determine to be troublesome either to you, or to

"others that were related to us; but since we have now over-

"come our enemies, and have occasion to send Numenius, the

"son of Antiochus, and Antipater the son of Jason, who are

"both honourable men belonging to our senate, to the Romans,

"we gave them this epistle to you also, that they might renew

"that friendship which is between us. You will therefore do

"well yourselves to write to us, and send us an account of what

"you stand in need of from us, since we are in all things, dis-

"posed to act according to your desires." So the Lacedemo­

nians received the ambassadors kindly, and made a decree for

friendship and mutual assistance and sent it to them.

9. At this time there were three sects among the Jews, who

had different opinions concerning human actions; the one was

called the sect of the Pharisees, another the sect of the Sadducees,

and the other the sect of the Essens. Now for the * Pharisees,

original being lost, we cannot certainly judge which was the truest version,
only the

coherence favours Josephus. But if this were the Jews1 meaning, that they were

satisfied out of their Bible that the Jews and Lacedemonians were of kin, that
part

of their Bible is now lost, for we find no such assertion in our present
copies.

* Those that suppose Josephus to contradict himself in his three several accounts  
of the notions of the Pharisees, this here, and that earlier one, which is the
largest,

of the War, B. II. chap. viii. sect. 14. vol. III. and the latter, Antiq.B.
XVIII. chap,

i. sect. 3. vol. III. as if he sometimes said they introduced an absolute
fatality, and

denied all freedom of human actions, is almost wholly groundless; he ever, as
the

very learned Casaubon here truly observes, asserting, ihat the Pharisees were
be­

tween the Essens and Sadducees, and did so far ascribe all to fate or divine
provi­

dence as was consistent with the freedom of human actions. However, their per­

plexed way of talking about fate or providence, as overruling all things, made
it

commonly thought they were willing to excuse their sins by ascribing them to
fate,

as in the Apostolical Constitutions, B. VI. chap. vi. Perhaps under the same
gen­

eral name some difference of opinions in this point might be propagated, as is
very

common in all parties, especially in points of metaphysical subtilty: However
our

Josephus, who in his bean was a great admirer of the piety of the Essens, was
yet

in practice a Pharisee, as he himself informs us, in his own life, sect. 2.
vol. 111. And

bis account of this doctrine of the Pharisees, is for certain agreeable to his
own

opinion, who ever both fully allowed the freedom of human actions, and yet
strongly

believed the powerful interposition of divine providence. See concerning this
mat­

ter a remarkable clause, Antiq. B. XVI. chap. xi. sect. 7.

