Chap. IX. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. SI

coming close to Elisha's body it revived again. And thus

far have we enlarged about the actions of Elisha the prophet,

both such as he did while he was alive, and how he had a

divine power after his death also.'

7. Now upon the death of Hazael, the king of Syria, that

kingdom came to Adad his son, with whom Joash king of Israel

made war, and when he had beaten him in three battles, he

took from him all that country, and all those cities and villages

which his father Hazael had taken from the kingdom of Israel,

which came to pass however according to the prophecy of Eli­

sha. But when Joash happened to die, he was buried in Sama­

ria, and the government devolved on his son Jeroboam.

CHAP. IX.

Haw Amaziah made an expedition against the Edamites and

Amalekites, and conquered them ,- but when he afterwards made

War against Joash, he was beaten, and not long after was

slain, and Uzziah succeeded in the government.

§ 1. JN ow in the second year of the reign of Joash over Is­

rael, Amaziah reigned over the tribe of Judah at Jerusalem

His mother's name was Jehohaddan, who was born at Jerusa

lem. He was exceeding careful in doing what was right, and

this when he was very young; but when he came to the man­

agement of affairs, and to the government, he resolved that

he ought first of all to avenge his father Jehoash, and to punish

those his friends that had laid violent hands upon him; so he

seized upon them all, and put them to death, yet did he execute

no severity on their children, but acted therein according to the

laws of Moses, who did not think it just to punish children for

the sins of their fathers. After this he chose him an army out

of the tribe of Judah and Benjamin of such as were in the

flower of their age, and about twenty years old; and when he

had collected about three hundred thousand of them together, he

set captains of hundreds over them. He also sent to the king of

Israel, and hired an hundred thousand of his soldiers for an hun­

dred talents of silver, for he had resolved to make an expedition

against the nations of the Amalekites, and Edomites, and Geba-

lites: But as he was preparing for his expedition, and ready to

go out to the war, a prophet gave him counsel to dismiss the

army of the Israelites, because they were bad men, and because

God foretold that he should be beaten, if he made use of them as

auxiliaries; but that he should overcome his enemies, though he

had but a few soldiers, when it so pleased God. And when the

king grudged at his having already paid the hire of the Israelites,

the prophet exhorted him to do what God would have him, be­

