78 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book X.

and saluted Daniel in the manner that men worship God, and

gave command that he should be sacrificed to as a god. And this

was not all, for he also imposed the name of his own god upon him,

[Baltasar], and made him and his kinsmen rulers of his whole

kingdom; which kinsmen of his happened to fall into great dan­

ger by the envy and malice of [their enemies]; for they offend­

ed the king upon the occasion following: he made an image of

gold, whose height was sixty cubits, and its breadth six cubits,

and set it in the great plain of Babylon; and when he was going

to dedicate the image, he invited the principal men out of all the

earth that was under his dominions, and commanded them in the

first place, that when they should hear the sound of the trumpet,

they should then fall down and worship the image; and he threat­

ened, that those who did not so, should be cast into a fiery fur­

nace. When therefore all the rest, upon the hearing of the sound

of the trumpet, worshipped the image, they related that Daniel's

kinsmen did not do it, because they would not transgress the laws

of their country: So these men were convicted and cast immedi­

ately into the fire, but were saved by divine providence, and af­

ter a surprising manner escaped death, for the fire did not touch

.them: and I suppose that it touched them not, as if it reasoned

with itself, that they were cast into it without any fault of theirs,

fmd that therefore it was too weak to burn the young men when

they were in it. This was done by the power of God, who made

their bodies so far superior to the fire, that it could not consume

them. This it was which recommended them to the king as

righteous men, and men beloved of God, on which account they

continued in great esteem with him.

6. A little after this the king saw in his sleep again another

-vision; how he should fall from his dominion, and feed among  
die wild beasts, and that when he had lived in this manner in the

desert for * seven years, he should recover his dominion again.

* Since Joscpbus here explains the seven prophetic times which were to pass over  
Nebuchadnezzar, Dan. iv. 16. to be seven years, we thence learn how he most
pro­

bably must have understood those other parallel phrases, of a time, times and
an half,

Antiq. B. VII. chap. xxv. of so many prophetic years also, though he withal
lets us

know, by this hint at the interpretation of the seventy ivtieks, as belonging
to the

fourth monarchy, and the destruction of Jerusalem by the Romans in the days of

Josephus, chap. ii. sect. 7. that he did not think those years to be bare
years, but ga­

ther days Jar years; by which reckoning, and by which alone, could 70 weeks,
or

'4 9O days reach to the age of Josephus. But as to the truth of those seven
years'

banishment of Nebuchadnezzar from men, and his living so long among the
beasts,

the very small remains we have any where else of this Nebuchadnezzar, prevent
our

expectation of any other full account of it. So far we know by Ptolemy's
canon, a

contemporary record, as well as by Josephus presently, that he reigned in all
43

years, that is, eight years after we meet with any account of his actions; one
of the

last, of which was the 13 years siege of Tyre, Antiq. B. X. chap. xi. where
yet the

Old Latin has but three years and ten months, yet were his actions before so
remark­

