Chap. X. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 417

under ground, and these convicted the king's chief hunter,

that he had given the young men the royal hunting spears, and

weapons to Alexander's dependents, at Alexander's command.

4>. After these, the commander of the garrison of Alexandrium

was caught and tortured; for he was accused to have promised

to receive the young men into his fortress, and to supply them

with that money of the king's which was laid up in that fortress,

yet did he not acknowledge any thing of it himself; but his son

came in, and said it was so, and delivered up the writing, which,

so far as could be guessed, was in Alexander's hand. Its con­

tents were these: " When we have finished, by God's help, all

"that we have proposed to do, we will come to you; but do

"your endeavours, as you have promised, to receive us into

"your fortress." After this writing was produced, Herod had

no doubt about the treacherous designs of his sons against him.

But Alexander said, that Diophantus the scribe, had imitated

his hand, and that the paper was maliciously drawn up by

Antipater; for Diophantus appeared to be very cunning in such

practices, and as he was afterward convicted of forging other

papers, he was put to death for it.

S. So the king produced those that had been tortured before

the multitude at Jericho, in order to have them accuse the young

men; which accusers many of the people stoned to death; and

when they were going to kill Alexander, and Aristobulus like­

wise, the king would not permit them to do so, but restrained the

multitude, by the means of Ptolemy and Pheroras. However,

the young men were put under a guard, and kept in custody,

that nobody might come at them; and all that they did or said

was watched, and the reproach and fear they were in was little

or nothing different from those of condemned criminals: and one

of them, who was Aristobulus, was so deeply affected, that he

brought Salome, who was his aunt, and his mother-in-law, to

lament with him for his calamities, and to hate him who had suf­

fered things to come to that pass; when he said to her, "Art

'* not thou in danger of destruction also, while the report goes

"that thou hadst disclosed beforehand all our affairs to Sylleus,

"when thou wast in hopes of being married to him?" But she

immediately carried those words to her brother; upon this he was

out of patience, and gave command to bind him; and enjoined

them both, now they were kept separate one from the other, to

write down the ill things they had done against their father, and

bring the writings to him. So when this was enjoined them,

they wrote this, that they had laid no treacherous designs, noi

made any preparations against their father, but that they had

intended to fly away; and that by the distress they were in,

their lives being now uncertain and tedious to them.

