361 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XV.

by the introduction of foreign practices, which constitution yet

ought to have been preserved inviolable; by which means vre

became guilty of great wickedness afterward, while those re­

ligious observances which used to lead the multitude to piety,

were now neglected: for, in the first place, he appointed so­

lemn games to be celebrated every fifth year, in honour of Cae

sar, and built a theatre at Jerusalem, as also a very great am­

phitheatre in the plain. Both of them were indeed costly works,

but opposite to the Jewish customs; for we have had no such

shows delivered down to us as fit to be used or exhibited by us;

yet did he celebrate these games every five years, in the most

solemn and splendid manner. He also made proclamation to the

neighbouring countries, and called men together out of every

nation. The wrestlers also, and the rest of those that strove for

the prizes in such games, were invited out of every land, both

by the hopes of the rewards there to be bestowed, and by the

glory of victory to be there gained. So the principal persons

that were the most eminent in these sorts of exercises, were

gotten together, for there were very great rewards for victory

proposed, not only to those that performed their exercises naked,

but to those that played the musicians also, and were called Thy-

melici; but he spared no pains to induce all persons, the most

famous for such exercises, to come to this contest for victory.

He also promised no small rewards for those who ran for the

prizes in chariot races, when they were drawn by two, or three,

or four pair of horses. He also imitated every thing, though

never so costly or magnificent, in other nations, out of an am­

bition that he might give most public demonstration of his gran­

deur. Inscriptions also of the great actions of Caesar, and tro­

phies of those nations which he had conquered in his wars, and

tdl made of the purest gold and silver, encompassed the theatre

itself: Nor was there any thing that could be subservient to his

design, whether it were precious garments, or precious stones

set in order, which was not also exposed to sight in these games.

He had also made a great preparation of wild beasts, and of

lions themselves in great abundance, and of such other beasts as

were either of uncommon strength, or of such a sort as were

rarely seen. These were prepared either to fight with one ano­

ther, or that men who were condemned to death, were to fight

with them. And truly foreigners were greatly surprised and

delighted at the vastness of the expenses here exhibited, and at

the great dangers that were here seen; * but to natural Jews;

* These grand plays and shows, and thymelici, or music meetings, and chariot  
races, when the chariots were drawn by two, three, or four pair of horses, &c.
insti­

tuted hy Herod in his theatres, were still, as we see here, looked on by the
sober

Jews as heathenish sports, and tending to corrupt the manners of the Jewish
nation,

