214 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIII.

had made them very strong, both in the edifices erected, and in

the garrisons placed in them, he came to Joppa, and when he

had taken it, he brought a great garrison into it, for he heard

that the people of Joppa were disposed to deliver up the city to

Demetrius' generals.

11. When Simon and Jonathan had finished these affairs, they

returned to Jerusalem, where Jonathan gathered all the people

together, and took counsel to restore the walls of Jerusalem, and

to rebuild the wall that encompassed the temple, which had been

thrown down, and to make the places adjoining stronger by very

high towers; and besides that, to build another wall in the midst

of the city, in order to exclude the market-place from the gar­

rison, which was in the citadel, and by that means to hinder them

from any plenty of provisions; and moreover, to make the for­

tresses that were in the country much stronger, and more defen­

sible, than they were before. And when these things were ap­

proved of by the multitude, as rightly proposed, Jonathan him­

self took care of the building that belonged to the city, and sent

Simon away to make the fortresses in the country more secure

than formerly. But Demetrius passed over [Euphrates,] and

came into Mesopotamia, as desirous to retain that country still,

as well as Babylon; and when he should have obtained the do­

minion of his upper provinces, to lay a foundation for recover­

ing his entire kingdom; for those Greeks and Macedonians who

dwelt there, frequently sent ambassadors to him, and promised,

that if he would come to them, they would deliver themselves

up to him, and assist him in fighting against * Arsaces, the king

of the Parthians. So he was elevated with these hopes, and

came hastily to them, as having resolved that, if he had once

overthrown the Parthians, and gotten an army of his own, he

would make war against Trypho, and eject him out of Syria;

and the people of that country received him with great alacrity.

So he raised forces, with which he fought against Arsaces, and

lost all his army, and was himself taken alive, as we have else­

where related.

* This king, who was of the famous race of Arsaces, is both here, and 1 Mac.  
Jtiv. 2. called by the family name Arsaces, but Appion says, his proper name
was

Phrates. He is here also called by Joscplius the king of the Far/hums, as the

Greeks used to call them, but by the elder author of the first Maccabees the
king

af the Persians and Males, according to the language of the eastern nations.
See

ftuthent. Rec. part. II. p. 1108.

