ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVI.

"rod of five hundred talents, and a bond, wherein it was writ-

"ten, that if the time appointed be elapsed, it should be lawf'jl

"to make a seizure out of any part of his country. As for

"the pretended army, he said, it was no army, but a party sent

"out to require the just payment of the money: that this was

"not sent immediately, nor so soon as the bond allowed, but

"that Sylleus had frequently come before Saturninus and Vo-

"lumnius, the presidents of Syria; and that at last he had sworn

"at Berytus, * by thy fortune, that he would certainly pay

"the money within thirty days, and deliver up the fugitives that

"were under his dominion. And that when Sylleus had per-

"formed nothing of this, Herod came again before the presi-

"dents; and upon their permission to make a seizure for his

"money, he, with difficulty, went out of his country with a party

"of soldiers for that purpose. And this is all the war which

"these men so tragically describe; and this is the affair of the

"expedition into Arabia. And how can this be called a war?

"when thy presidents permitted it; the covenants allowed it;

"and it was not executed till thy name, O Caesar, as well as that

"of the other gods, had been profaned. And now I must speak

"in order about the captives. There were robbers that

"dwelt in Trachonites; at first their number was no more than

"forty, but they became more afterwards, and they escaped the

"punishment Herod would have inflicted on them, by making

"Arabia their refuge. Sylleus received them, and supported

"them with food, that they might be mischievous to all man-

"kind, and gave them a country to inhabit, and himself receiv-

"ed the gains they made by robbery; yet did he promise that

"he would deliver up these men, and that by the same oaths,

"and same time that he swore and fixed for payment of his

"debt: nor can he by any means show that any other per-

"sons have at this time been taken out of Arabia, besides these,

"and indeed not all these neither, but only so many as could

"not conceal themselves. And thus does the calumny of

-' the captives, which hath been so odiously represented, ap-  
"pear to be no better than a fiction and a lie, made on pur-

"pose to provoke thy indignation; for I venture to affirm, that

"when the forces of the Arabians came upon us, and one or

"two of Herod's party fell, he then only defended himself, and

"there fell Nacebus their general, and in all, about twenty-five

"others, and no more; when Sylleus, by multiplying every

"single soldier to a hundred, he reckons the slain to have

"been two thousand five hundred."

* This oath, by the fortune of Crfsar, was put to Polycarp, a bishop of Smyrna,  
hy the Roman governor, to try \vhethtr ho was a Christian, as they were then

esteemed who refused to swear that oath. Martyr, 1'olyoup, sect. 9,

