Chap. I. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 4J

BOOKX.

CONTIIKING THE INTERVAL OF ONE HUNDRED AND EIGHTY-

TWO YEARS AND A HALF.

[FKOM THE CAPTIVITY OF THE TEN TRIBES TO THE FIRST

OF CYRUS.]

CHAP. I.

Hem Sennacherib made an expedition against Hezekiah,- ivhat

threatenings Rabshakeh made to Hezekiah when Sennacherib

leas gone against the Egyptians; how Isaiah the prophet en­

couraged him; how Sennacherib, having failed of success in

Egypt* returned thence to Jerusalem; and how, upon hisflnding

his army destroyed, he returned home ,- and what befell him a

little afterward.

4 1. IT was now the fourteenth year of the government

of Hezekiah, king of the two tribes, when the king of Assy­

ria, whose name was Sennacherib, made an expedition against

him with a great army, and took all the cities of the tribe of

Judah and Benjamin by force; and when he was ready to bring

his army against Jerusalem, Hezekiah sent ambassadors to him

beforehand, and promised to submit, and pay what tribute he

should appoint. Hereupon Sennacherib, when he heard of what

offers the ambassadors made, resolved not to proceed in the war,

but to accept of the proposals that were made him; and if he

might receive three hundred talents of silver, andj thirty talents

of gold, he promised that he would depart in a Friendly manner;

and he gave security upon oath to the ambassadors that he would

then do him no harm, but go away as he came. So Hezekiah

submitted, and emptied his treasures, and sent the money, as sup­

posing he should be freed from his enemy, and from any farther

distress about his kingdom. Accordingly, the Assyrian king took

it; and yet had no regard to what he had promised; but while he

himself went to the war against the Egyptians and Ethio­

pians, he left his general Rabshakeh, and two other command­

ers, with great forces, to destroy Jerusalem. The names of

the two other commanders were Tartan and Rabsaris.

2. Now as soon as they were come before the walls, they pitch­

ed their camp, and sent messengers to Hezekiah, and desired that

