400 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVI.

to all men: on which account we have reason to expect the

like return from others, and to inform them that they ought

not to esteem difference of positive institutions a sufficient cause

of alienation, but [join with us in] the pursuit of virtue and

probity, for this belongs to all men in common, and of itself

alone is sufficient for the preservation of human life. I now

return to the thread of my history.

CHAP. VII.

How upon Herod's going down into David's sepulchre, the sedi­

tion in his family greatly increased.

§ 1. As for Herod he had spent vast sums about the cities,

both without and within his own kingdom: and as he had before

heard that Hyrcanus, who had been king before him, had

opened David's sepulchre, and taken out of it three thousand

talents of silver, and that there was a much greater number

left behind, and indeed enough to suffice all his wants, he had

a great while an intention to make the attempt; and at this time

he opened that sepulchre by night, and went into it, and endea­

voured that it should not be at all known in the city, but took

only his most faithful friends with him. As for any money, he

found none, as Hyrcanus had done, but that furniture of gold,

and those precious goods that were laid up there; all which he

took away. However, he had a great desire to make a more

diligent search, and to go farther in, even as far as the very bodies

of David and Solomon; where two of his guards were slain, by

a flame that burst out upon those that went in, as the report was.

So he was terribly affrighted, and went out and built a propi­

tiatory monument of that fright he had been in, and this of

white stone at the mouth of the sepulchre, and that at great ex­

pense also. And even * Nicolaus his historiographer makes

mention of this monument built by Herod, though he does not

mention his going dovn into the sepulchre, as knowing that ac­

tion to be of ill repute; and many other things he treats of in

the same manner in his book; for he wrote in Herod's lifetime,

and under his reign, and so as to please him, and as a servant to

* It is here worth our observation, how careful Josephus was to the discovery  
of truth in Herod's history, since he would not follow Njcolaus of Damascus
him­

self, so great a historian, where there was great reason to suspect that he
flattered

Herod; which impartiality in history Josephus here solemnly professes, and of

which impartiality he has given more demonstrations than almost any historian
whom­

soever: But as to Herod's taking great wealth out of David's sepulchre, though
I

cannot prove it, yet do I strongly suspect it was this very history.

