34 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book X.

the king, and to the multitude, by whom he threatened the

very same calamities to them, which their brethren the Israel­

ites, upon the like affronts offered to God, were now under.

But these men would not believe their words, by which beliet

they might have reaped the advantage of escaping all those mi­

series, yet did they in earnest learn that what the prophets had

told them was true.

2. And when they persevered in the same course of life, God

raised up war against them, from the king of Babylon and Chal

dea, who sent an army against Judea, and laid waste the coun

try; and caught king Manasseh by treachery, and ordered hin

to be brought to him, and had him under his power to inflic"

what punishment he pleased upon him. But then it was that

Manasseh perceived what a miserable condition he was in, and

esteeming himself the cause of all, he besought God to render

his enemy humane and merciful to him. Accordingly, God

heard his prayer, and granted him what he prayed for. So Ma­

nasseh was released by the king of Babylon, and escaped the dan­

ger he was in: And when he was come to Jerusalem, he en­

deavoured, if it were possible, to cast out of his memory those

his former sins against God, of which he now repented, and to

apply himself to a very religious life. He sanctified the temple,

and purged the city, and for the remainder of his days he was'

intent on nothing but to return his thanks to God for his de­

liverance, and to preserve him propitious to him all his lifelong.

He also instructed the multitude to do the same, as having very

nearly experienced what a calamity he was fallen into by a con­

trary conduct. He also rebuilt the altar, and offered the legal

sacrifices, as Moses commanded. And when he had re-establish­

ed what concerned the divine worship, as it ought to be, he took

care of the security of Jerusalem: he did not only repair the

old walls with great diligence, but added another wall to the

former. He also built very lofty towers, and the garrisoned

places before the city he strengthened, not only in other respects

but with provisions of all sorts that they wanted. And indeed

when he had changed his former course, he so led his life fo»

the time to come, that from the time of his return to piety to­

wards God, he was deemed a happy man, and a pattern foi

.mitation: when therefore he had lived sixty-seven years, he

departed this life, having reigned fifty-five years, and was buried

in his own garden; and the kingdom came to his son Amon,

whose mother's name was Meshumeleth, of the city of Jobath.

