266 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIV.

mdeed an eminent person and one of a great soul. However,

the senate let his children go, upon Gabinius' writing to them,

that he had promised their mother so much when she delivered

up the fortresses to him; and accordingly they then returned into

Judea.

2. Now when Gabinius was making an expedition against the

Parthians, and had already passed over Euphrates, he changed

his mind and resolved to return into Egypt, in order to * re­

store Ptolemy to his kingdom. This hath also been related else­

where. However, Antipater supplied his army, which he sent

against Archelans, with corn and weapons, and money. He

also made those Jews who were above Felusium, his friends and

confederates, and had been the guardians of the passes that led

into Egypt. But when he came back out of Egypt, he found

Syria in disorder, with seditions and troubles; for Alexander,

the son of Aristobulus, having seized on the government a

second time by force, made many of the Jews revolt to him, and

so he marched over the country with a great army, and slew all

the Romans he could light upon, and proceeded to besiege the

mountain called Gerrizzim, whither they had retreated.

3. But when Gabinius found Syria in such a state, he sent An­

tipater who was a prudent man, to those that were seditious,

to try whether he could cure them of their madness, and per­

suade them to return to a better mind, and when he came to

them, he brought many of them to a sound mind, and induced

them to do what they ought to do, but he could not restrain

Alexander, for he had an army of thirty- thousand Jews, and

met Gabinius, and joining battle with him, was beaten, and lost

ten thousand of his men about mount Tabor.

4. So Gabinius settled the affairs which belonged to the city

Jerusalem, as was agreeable to Antipater's inclination, and went

against the Nabateans, and overcame them in battle. He also

sent away in a friendly manner Mithridates and Orsanes, who

were Parthian deserters, and came to himr though the report

went abroad that they had run away from him. And when Ga­

binius had performed great and glorious actions, in his manage­

ment of the affairs of war, he returned to Rome, and delivered

the government to Crassus. Now, Nicolaus of Damascus, and

Strabo of Cappadocia, both describe the expeditions of Pompey

and Gabinius against the Jews, while neither of them say any

thing new which is not in the other.

» Tliis history is best illustrated by Dr. Hudson out of Livy, who says,

"That A. Gabinius the proconsul, restored Ptolemy to his kingdom of Egypt,

"and ejected Archelaus, whom they had set up for king," &c. See Prid. at the

years 64 and 65.

