Chap. III. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 323

"accept it; and that now she would be satisfied with her son's

"dignity, while he himself held the civil government, and she

"had thereby the security that arose, from his peculiar ability

"in governing, to all the remainder of her family: that she

"was now overcome by his benefits, and thankfully accepted of

"this honour showed by him to her son, and that she would

"hereafter be entirely obedient: and she desired him to excuse

"her, if the nobility of her family and that freedom of acting

"which she thought that allowed her, had made her act too

"precipitately and imprudently in this matter." So when they

had spoken thus to one another, they came to an agreement,

and all suspicions, so far as appeared, were vanished away.

CHAP. III.

Hcno Herod, upon his making Aristobulus high priest, took care

that he should be murdered in a little time: and vohqt apology

he made to Antony about Aristobulus: as also concerning Jo­

seph and Mariamne.

$ 1. oo king Herod immediately took the high priesthood

away from Ananelus, who, as we said before, was not of this

country, but one of those Jews that had been carried captive

beyond Euphrates; for there were not a few ten thousands of

this people that had been carried captives, and dwelt about

Babylonia, whence Ananelus came. He was one * of the

stock of the high priests, and had been of old a particular friend

of Herod's; and when he was first made king, he conferred that

dignity upon him, and now put him out of it again, in order to

quiet the troubles in his family, though what he did was plainly

unlawful, for at no other time [of old] was any one that had once

been in that dignity deprived of it. It was Antiochus Epiphanes

who first broke that law, and deprived Jesus, and made his bro­

ther Onias high priest in his stead. Aristobulus was the second

that did so, and took that dignity from his brother [Hyrcanus ;]

* When Josephus says here, that this Ananelus, the new high priest, was of the  
slack of the high priests, and since he had been just telling us that he was a
priest of

an obscure family or character, ch. ii. sect . 4. it is not at all probable
that he could so

soon say that he was of the stock tf the high priests. However, Josephus here
makes

a remarkable observation, that this Ananelus was the third that was very
unjustly

and wickedly turned out of the high priesthood by the civil power, no king or
gov­

ernor having ventured to do so that Josephus knew of, but that heathen tyrant
and

persecutor Antiochus Epiphanes, that barbarous parricide Aristobulus, the
first that

took royal authority among the Maccabees; and this tyrant king Herod the
Great,

although afterward that infamous practice became frequent, till the very
destruction

of Jerusalem, when the office of high priesthood was at an end.

VOL. iI. s s 25

