372 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XV.

3. So Herod took away the old foundations, and laid others,

and erected the temple upon them, being in length a hundred

cubits, and in height twenty additional cubits, which [twenty,]

upon the * sinking of their foundations, fell down: and this part

it was that we resolved to raise again in the days of Nero. Now

the temple was built of stones that were white and strong, and

each of their length was twenty-five cubits, their height was

eight, and their breadth about twelve; and the whole structure,

as was also the structure of the royal cloister, was on each side

much lower, but the middle was much higher, till they were

visible to those that dwelt in the country for a great many fur­

longs, but chiefly to such as lived over against them, and those

that approached to them. The temple had doors also at the en­

trance, and lintels over them, of the same height with the tem­

ple itself. They were adorned with embroidered vails, with

their flowers of pm-pie, and pillars interwoven: and over these,

but under the crown-work, was spread out a golden vine, with

its branches hanging down from a great height, the largeness and

fine workmanship of which was a surprising sight to the specta­

tors, to see what vast materials there were, and with what great

skill the workmanship was done. He also encompassed the en­

tire temple with very large cloisters, contriving them to be in a

due proportion thereto; and he laid out larger sums of money

upon them than had been done before him, till it seemed that no

one else had so greatly adorned the temple as he had done. There

was a large wall to both the cloisters, which wall was itself the

most prodigious work that was ever heard of by man. The hill

was a rocky ascent, that declined by degrees towards the east

parts of the city, till it came to an elevated level. This hill it

was which Solomon, who was the first of our kings, by divine

revelation, encompassed with a wall; it was of excellent work­

manship upwards, and round the top of it. He also built a wall

below, beginning at the bottom, which was encompassed by a

* Some of our modern students in architecture have made a strange blunder  
here, when they imagine that Joseph us affirms the entire foundation of the
tempi*

or holy house sunk down into the rocky mountain on which it stood, no less
than

20 cubits; whereas he is clear, that they were the foundations of the
(ulduiimal 20

cubits only above the hundred, (made perhaps weak on purpose, and only for
show

and grandeur.) that sunk or fell do\vn, as Dr. Hudson rightly understands him:
nor

is the thing itself possible in the other sense. Agrippa's preparation for
building the

inner pans of the temple 20 cubits higher, (H istory of the War, B. V. ch. i.
stct. 5.)

must in all probability refer to this matter, since Josephus says here, that
this which

had fallen down was designed to 1 craised up again under NeTO, under whom
Agrippa

made that preparation. But what Josejihus says presently, that Solomon was the

first king of the Jews, appears by the paraltel place, .Amu;. B. XX. ch. ix.
sect. 7.

vol. III. and other places, to be meant only the first of David's posterity,
ami the first

builder of the temple.

