Chap. IX. ANTIgUITIES OF THE JEWS. 411

all expectation, wiped off. And Archelaus, as soon as he had

made the reconciliation, went then away to Cappadocia, having

proved at this juncture of time the most acceptable person to

Herod in the world; on which account he gave him the richest

presents, as tokens of his respect to him, and being on other oc­

casions magnanimous, he esteemed him one of his dearest friends.

He also made an agreement with him that he would go to Rome,

because he had written to Caesar about these affairs; so they

went together as far as Antioch, and there Herod made a recon­

ciliation between Archelaus and Titus, the president of Syria,

who had been greatly at variance, and so returned back to

Judea.

CHAP. IX.

Concerning the revolt of the Trachonites: How Sylleus accused

Herod before Ctesar: and how Herod, when Ctesar was angry

at him, resolved to send Nicolaus to Rome.

§ 1. W HEN Herod had been at Rome, and was come back

again, a war arose between him and the Arabians, on the oc­

casion following: The inhabitants of Trachonitis, after Caesar

had taken the country away from Zednodorus, and added it

to Herod, had not now power to rob, but were forced to

plough the land, and to live quietly, which was a thing they

did not like; and when they did take that pains, the ground did

not produce much fruit for them. However, at the first the

king would not permit them to rob, and so they abstained from

that unjust way of living upon their neighbours, which procured

Herod a great reputation for his care: But when he was sailing

to Rome, (it was at that time when he went to accuse his son

Alexander, and to commit Antipater to Caesar's protection,) the

Trachonites spread a report as if he were dead, and revolted

from his dominion, and betook themselves again to their accus­

tomed way of robbing their neighbours: at which time the

king's commanders subdued them during his absence, but about

forty of the principal robbers, being terrified by those that had

been taken, left the country, and retired into Arabia, Sylleus

entertaining them, after he had missed of marrying Salome, and

gave them a place of strength in which they dwelt. So they over­

ran not only Judea, butall Coelesyria also, and carried off the prey,

while Sylleus afforded them places of protection and quietness

during their wicked practices. But when Herod came back from

Rome, he perceived that his dominions had greatly suffered by

them, and since he could not reach the robbers themselves, be­

cause of the secure retreat they had in that country, and which

VOL. n. 3 F 27

