Chap. II. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 255

pie still supporting Hyrcanus, and assisting him in the siege, while

none but the priests continued with Aristobulus. So Aretas

united the forces of the Arabians and of the Jews together, and

pressed on the siege vigorously. As this happened at the time

when the feast of unleavened bread was celebrated, which we

call the passover, the principal men among the Jews left the coun­

try and fled into Egypt. Now there was one whose name was

Onias, a righteous man he was, and beloved of God, who, in a

certain drought, had prayed to God to put an end to the intense

heat, and whose prayers God had heard, and had sent them rain.

This man had hid himself, because he saw that this sedition

would last a great while. However they brought him to the

Jewish camp, and desired, that as by his prayers he had once put

an end to the drought, so he would in like manner make impre­

cations on Aristobulus, and those of his faction. And when,

upon his refusal, and the excuses that he made, he was still by the

multitude compelled to speak, he stood up in the midst of them,

and said, "O God, the king of the whole world! since those that

"stand now with me are thy people, and those that are besieged

"are also thy priests, I beseech thee, that thou wilt neither

"hearken to the prayers of those against these, nor bring to

"effect what these pray against those." Whereupon such wick­

ed Jews as stood about him, as soon as he had made this prayer,

stoned him to death.

2. But God punished them immediately for this their barba­

rity, and took vengeance of them for the murder of Onias, in

the manner following: While the priests and Aristobulus were

besieged, it happened that the feast called the Passover was come,

at which it is our custom to offer a great number of sacrifices

to God; but those that were with Aristobulus wanted sacrifices,

and desired that their countrymen without would furnish them

with such sacrifices, and assured them they should have as much

money for them as they should desire; and when they required

them to pay a thousand drachmae for each head of cattle, Aristo­

bulus and the priests willingly undertook to pay for them ac­

cordingly, and those within let down the money over the walls,

and gave it them. But when the others had received it, they

did not deliver the sacrifices, but arrived at that height of wick­

edness as to break the assurances they had given, and to be guilty

of impiety towards God, by not furnishing those that wanted

them with sacrifices. And when the priests found they had been

cheated, and that the agreements they had made were violated,

they prayed to God, that he would avenge them on their coun­

trymen. Nor did he delay that their punishment, but sent a

strong and vehement storm of wind, that destroyed the fruits of

the whole country, till a modius of wheat was then bought for

eleven drachmas.

