Chap. VI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 84-1

was a careful attender on him, and on Alexandra, and had no

small occasions to bear ill-will to Herod: for he was a kinsman

of one Joseph, whom he had slain, and a brother of those that

were formerly slain at Tyre by Antony: yet could not these mo­

tives induce Dositheus to serve Hyrcanus in this affair, for prefer -

ing the hopes he had from the present king to those he had from

him, he gave Herod the letter. So he took his kindness in good

part, and bid him besides do what he had already done, that is, go

on in serving him, by rolling up the epistle and sealing it again,

and delivering it to Malchus, and then to bring back his letter

in answer to it; for it would be much better if he could know

Malchus' intentions also. And when Dositheus was very ready

to serve him in this point also, the Arabian governor returned

back for answer, that he would receive Hyrcanus, and all that

should come -with him, and even all the Jews that were of his

party: that he would, moreover, send forces sufficient to secure

them in their journey, and that he should be in no want of any

thing he should desire. Now as soon as Herod had received

this letter, he immediately sent for Hyrcanus, and questioned

him about the league he had made with Malchus : and when he

denied it, showed his letter to the sanhedrim, and put the man

to death immediately.

3. And this account we give the reader, as it is contained in

the commentaries of king Herod: but other historians do not

agree with them, for they suppose that Herod did not find, but

rather make this an occasion for thus putting him to death, and

that by treacherously laying a snare for him; for thus do they

write; That Herod and he were once at a treat, and that Herod

had given no occasion to suspect [that he was displeased at him,]

but put this question to Hyrcanus, Whether he had received any

letters from Malchus? And when he answered, that he had re­

ceived letters, but those of salutation only; and when he asked

farther, whether he had not received any presents from him ? and

when he had replied, that he had received no more than four

horses to ride on, which Malchus had sent him; and they pre­

tend that Herod charged these upon him as the crimes of brib­

ery and treason, and gave order that he should be led away and

slain. And in order to demonstrate that he had been guilty of

no offence, when he was thus brought to his end, they alleged

how mild his temper had been, and that even in his youth he

had never given any demonstration of boldness or rashness, and

that the case was the same when he came to be king, but that

he even then committed the management of the greatest part of

public affairs to Antipater; and that he was now above four­

score years old, and knew that Herod's government was in a se­

cure state. He also came over Euphrates and left those who

