Chap. XI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. S71

"rate them to you, since you well know them yourselves; but

"as to that undertaking which 1 have a mind to set about at

"present, and which will be a work of the greatest piety, and

"excellence, that can possibly be undertaken by us, I will now

"declare it to you. Our fathers indeed, when they were return-

"ed from Babylon, built this temple to God Almighty, yet does

"it want sixty cubits of its largeness in altitude; for so much did

"that first temple which Solomon built exceed this temple; nor

"let any one condemn our fathers for their negligence or want

"of piety herein, for it was not their fault that the temple was

"no higher; for they were Cyrus, and Darius the son of Hystas-

"pes, who determined the measures for its rebuilding; and it

"hath been by reason of the subjection of those fathers of ours

"to them, and to their posterity, and after them to the Macedo-

"nians, that they had not the opportunity to follow the origi-

"nal model of this pious edifice, nor could raise it to its ancient

"altitude: but since I am now, by God's will, your governor,

"and I have had peace a long time, and have gained great rich-

"es, and large revenues, and, what is the principal thing of all,

"I am at amity with, and well regarded by, the Romans, who,

"if I may so say, are the rulers of the whole world, I will do

"my endeavour to correct that imperfection, which hath arisen

"from the necessity of our affairs, and the slavery we have

"been under formerly, and to make a thankful return, after the

"most pious manner, to God, for what blessings I have received

"from him, by giving me this kingdom, and that by rendering

"his temple as complete as I am able."

2. And this was the speech which Herod made to them : but

still this speech affrighted many of the people, as being unex­

pected by them; and, because it seemed incredible, it did not en-1

courage them, but put a damp upon them, for they were afraid

that he would pull down the whole edifice, and not be able to

bring his intentions to perfection for its rebuilding; and this

danger appeared to them to be very great, and the vastness of

the undertaking to be such as could hardly be accomplished

But while they were in this disposition, the king encouraged

them, and told them, "he would not pull down their temple

"till all things were gotten ready for building it up entirely

"again." And as he promised them this beforehand, so he did

not break his word with them, but got ready a thousand wag­

gons, that were to bring stones for the building, and chose out

teti thousand of the-most skilful workmen, and brought a thou­

sand sacerdotal garments for as many of the priests, and had

some of them taught the arts of stone-cutters, and others of

carpenters, and then began to build, but this not till every

thing was well prepared for the work.

VOL. 11. 3 A 27

