IV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 99

twenty-eight, and porters one hundred and ten; and of the sacred

ministers three hundred and ninetyrtwo; there were also others

besides these, who said they were of the Israelites, but were not

able to show their genealogies, six hundred and sixty-two; some

there were also, who were expelled out of the number and ho­

nour of the priests, as having married wives whose genealogies

they could not produce, nor were they found in the genealogies

of the Levites a-nd priests: they were about five hundred and

twenty-five; the multitude also of servants that followed those that

went up out of Jerusalem were seven thousand three hundred and

thirty-seven; the singing men and singing women were two hun­

dred and forty-five; the camels were four hundred and thirty-

five ; the beasts used to the yoke were five thousand five hundred

and twenty-five; and the governors of all this multitude thus num­

bered were Zorobabel, the son of Salathiel, of the posterity of Da­

vid, and of the tribe of Judah, and Jeshua, the son of Josedek the

high priest; and besides these there were Mordecai and Serebe*

us, who were distinguished from the multitude, and were rulers^

who also contributed a hundred pounds of gold, and five thou­

sand of silver. By this means therefore the priests and the Le­

vites, and a certain part of the entire people of the Jews that

were hi Babylon, came and dwelt in Jerusalem, but the rest of

the multitude returned every one to their own countries.

CHAP. IV.

JJow the temple was built, while the Cutheans endeavoured in

vain to obitruct the work.

§ 1. .Now in the seventh month, after they were departed

put of Babylon, both Jeshua the high priest, and Zorobabel

the governor, sent messengers every way round about: and ga­

thered those that were in the country together to Jerusalem uni-

versally, who came very gladly thither. He then built the altar

on the same place it had formerly been built, that they might of­

fer the appointed sacrifices upon it to God, according to the laws

of Moses. But while they did this, they did .not please the neigh­

bouring nations, who all of them bare an ill will to them. They

days of Xerxes they were also, as well as these of the two tribes, and out of
them

only, and were in all no more than a seed and a remnant, while an immense
number

of the ten tribes never returned, but as he believed, continued then beyond
Eu­

phrates, ch. v. sect. 2,3. Of which multitude, the Jews beyond Euphrates, he
speaks

frequently elsewhere; though, by the way, he never takes them to be idolaters,
but

looks on them still as observers of the laws of Moses. The certain part of the

people that now came up from Babylon, at the end of this chapter, imply the
sam«

smaller number of Jews that now cams up, and will no way agree with the
4,000)00*

VOL. II. N 17

