2C2 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIV.

est of the towers was shaken by it, and fell down, and brake

down a part of the fortifications, so the enemy poured in apace,

and Cornelius Faustus, the son of Sylla, with his soldiers, first

of all ascended the wall, and next to him Furius the centurion,

with those that followed on the other part, while Fabius, who

was also a centurion, ascended it in the middle, with a great

body of men after him. But now all was full of slaughter; some

of the Jews being slain by the Romans, and some by one ano­

ther; nay, some there were who threw themselves down the pre­

cipices, or put fire to their houses, and burnt them, as not able

to bear the miseries they were under. Of the Jews there fell

twelve thousand, but of the Romans very few. Absalom, who

was at once both uncle and father-in-law to Aristobulus, wus

taken captive. And no small enormities were committed about

the temple itself, which, in former ages, had been inaccessible

and seen by none; for Pompey went into it, and not a few of

those that were with him also, and saw all that which it was

unlawful for any other men to see but only for the high priests.

There were in that temple the golden table, the holy candlestick,

and the pouring vessels, and a great quantity of spices; and be­

sides these there were among the treasures two thousand ta­

lents of sacred money; Yet * did Pompey touch nothing of all

this, on account of his regard to religion; and in this point also

he acted in a manner that was worthy of his virtue. The next

day he gave order to those that had the charge of the temple to

cleanse it, and to bring what offerings the law required to God:

and restored the high priesthood to Hyrcanus, both because he

had been useful to him in other respects, and because he hin­

dered the Jews in the country from giving Aristobulus any as­

sistance in his war against him. He also cut off' those that had

been the authors of that war; and bestowed proper rewards on

Faustus, and those others that mounted the wall with such alac­

rity: and he made Jerusalem tributary to the Romans; and

took away those cities of Coelesyria which the inhabitants of Ju-

dea had subdued, and put them under the government of the Ro­

man president, and confined the whole nation, which had elevat­

ed itself so high before, within its own bounds. Moreover, he

f rebuilt Gadara, which had been demolished a little before, to

gratify Demetrius of Gadara, who was his freed man, and re­

stored the rest of the cities, Hippos, and Scy thopolis, and Pella

and Dios, and Samaria, as also Marissa, and Ashdod, and Jam­

* This is fully confirmed by the testimony of Cicero, who says in his oration for  
Flaccus, That " Cneius Pompeius, when he was conqueror, and had taken Jeru-

"salem, did not touch any thing belonging to that temple."

f Of this destruction of Gadara litre presupposed, and its restoration by
Pompey,

see the note on the War, B. I. ch. vii. sect. 7. vol. 111.

