208 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIII.

3. Now the people of Antioch hated Demetrius, both on ac­

count of what mischief he had himself done them, and because

they were his enemies also on account of his father Demetrius,

who had greatly abused them, so they watched some opportu­

nity which they might lay hold on, to fall upon him. And

when they were informed of the assistance that was coming to

Demetrius from Jonathan, and considered at the same time that

he would raise a numerous army, unless they prevented him,

and seized upon him, they took their weapons immediately, and

encompassed his palace in the way of a siege, and seizing upon

all the ways of getting out, they sought to subdue their king.

And when he saw that the people of Antioch were become his

bitter enemies, and that they were thus in arms, he took the

mercenary soldiers, which he had with him, and those Jews

who were sent by Jonathan, and assaulted the Antiochians; but

he was overpowered by them, for they were many ten thou­

sands, and was beaten. But when the Jews saw that the An­

tiochians were superior, they went up to the top of the palace,

and shot at them from thence; and because they were so re­

mote from them by their height, that they suffered nothing on

their side, but did great execution on the others, as fighting from

such an elevation, they drove them out of the adjoining houses,

and immediately set them on fire, whereupon the flames spread

itself over the whole city, and burnt it all down. This hap­

pened by reason of the closeness of the houses, and because they

were generally built of wood: so the Antiochians, when they

were not able to help themselves, nor to stop the fire, were put

to flight And as the Jews leaped from the top of one house to

the top of another, and pursued them after that manner, it

thence happened that the pursuit was so very surprising. But

when the king saw that the Antiochians were very busy in

saving their children and their wives, and so did not fight any

longer, he fell upon them in the narrow passages, and fought

them, and slew a great many of them, till at last they were

forced to throw down their arms, and to deliver themselves up

to Demetrius. So he forgave them this their jnsolent beha­

viour, and put an end to the sedition: and when he had given

rewards to the Jews out of the rich spoils he had gotten, and

had returned them thanks, as the cause of his victory, he sent

them away to Jerusalem, to Jonathan, with an ample testimony

of the assistance they had afforded him. Yet did he prove an

ill man to Jonathan afterward, and broke the promises he had

made; and he threatened that he would make war upon him,

unless he would pay all that tribute which the Jewish nation

owed to the first kings [of Syria.] And this he had done, if

Trypho had not hindered him, and diverted his preparations

