Chap. IV. ANTlgUITiEE OF THE JEWS. 11

came to him; and said, That " he was not ignorant how her

"husband had preserved the prophets that were to be slain by

"Jezebel, the wife of Ahab: for she said that he hid a hundred

"of them, and had borrowed money for their maintenance;

« that after her husband's death, she and her children were car-

"ried away to be made slaves by the creditors; and she desired

"of him to have mercy upon her on account of what her hus-

"band did, and afford her some assistance." And when he ask­

ed her what she had in the house, she said, Nothing but a very

small quantity of oil in a cruse. . So the prophet bid her go

away, and borrow a great many empty vessels of her neighbours,

and when she had shut her chamber door, to pour the oil into

them all; for God would fill them full. And when the woman

had done what she was commanded to do, and bade her children

bring every one of the vessels, and all were filled, and not one

left empty, she came to the prophet, and told him that they were

all full: Upon which he advised her to go away, and sell the oil,

and pay the creditors what was owing to them, for that there

would be some surplus of the price of the oil, which she might

make use of for the maintenance of her children. And thus did

Elisha discharge the woman's debts, and free her from the vexa­

tion of her creditors.

3. * Elisha also sent an hasty message to Joram and exhorted

him to take care of that place, for that therein were some Sy-

widow of Obadiah, the good steward of Aliah, is confirmed by the Chaldee

paraphrast, and by the Rabbins and others. Nor is that unlikely which Jose-

plms here adds, that these debts were contracted by her husband for the sup­

port of those hundred of the Lord's jrrophets, whom he maintained by Jifty in
a

cave, in the days of Ahab and Jezebel, 1 Kings xviii. 4. which circumstance

rendered it highly fit that the prophet Elisha should provide her a remedy,
and

enable her to redeem herself and her sons from the fear of that slavery which

insolvent debtors were liable to by the law of Moses, Lev. xxv. 59. Matt,
xviii.

25. which he did accordingly, with God's help, at the expense of a miracle.

* Dr. Hudson with very good reason, suspects that there is no small defect in  
our present copies of Josephus; just before the beginning of this section, and
that

chiefly, as to that distinct account which he had given us reason to expect in
the

first section, and to which he seems to refer, chap. viii. § 6. concerning the
glo­

rious miracles which Elisha wrought, which indeed in our Bibles are not i.
few,

2 Kings iv—ix. but of which we have several omitted in Josephus' present co­

pies. One of these histories, omitted at present, was evidently in his Bible,
I

mean that of the curing of Naaman's leprosy, 2 Kings v. for he plainly alludes

to it, B. III. chap. xi. § 4. "here he observes, That "there were lepers in
many

"nations who yet have been in honour, and not only free from reproach and

"avoidance, but who have been great captains of armies, and been intrusted
with

"high offices in the commonwealth, and have had the privilege of entering into

"holy places and ti-mples." But what makes me most regret the want of that

history in our present copies of Josephus, is this, that we have here, as it
is com.

monly understood, one of the greatest difficulties in all the Bible, that in 2
Kingt

v. 18, ] 9. where Naaman, after he had been miraculously cured by a prophet

of the true God, and had thereupon promised, ver. 17. that "he would hence-

VOL. II. B 15

