Chap. VI. ' ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 23

Jehu sent two epistles, the one to them that brought up the chil足

dren, the other to the rulers-of. Samaria, which said, That

"they should set up the most valiant of Ahab's sons for king,

"for that they had abundance of chariots, and horses, and ar-

"mour, and a great army, and fenced cities, and that by so do-

"ing they might avenge the murder of Ahab." This he wrote

t.o try the' intentions ;of those of Samaria. Now when the ru足

lers, and those that had brought up the children, had read the

letter, they were afraid, and,considering that they were not at all

able to oppose him, and that he had already subdued two very

great kings, they returnedhim thisanswer, That "they owned him

"for their lord, and would do whatsoever he bade. them." So

he wrote back to them, such a reply as enjoined them to obey

what he gave order for, and to cut off the heads of Ahab's sons,

and send them to him. Accordingly, the rulers sent for those

that brought up the sons of Ahab, and commanded them to slay

them, to cut off their heads, and send them to Jehu. So they

did whatsoever they were commanded, without omitting any

thing at all, and put them up in wicker baskets, and sent them

to Jezreel. And when Jehu, as he was at supper with his friends,

was informed that the heads of Ahab's sons were brought, he

ordered them to make two heaps of them, one before each of

the gates, and in the morning he went out to take a view of

them, and when he saw them, he began to say to the people that

were present, That "he dkl himself make an expedition against

"his master [Joram], and slew him, but that it was not

"he that slew all these: and he desired them to take notice,

"that as to Ahab's family, all things had come to pass accord-

"ing to God's prophecy, and his house was perished, according

"as Elijah had foretold." And when he had farther destroy足

ed all the kindred of Ahab that were found in Jezreel, he went

to Samaria; and as he was upon the road, he met the relations

of Ahaziah king of Jerusalem, and asked them, whether they were

going? they replied, that they came to salute Joram, and their

own king Ahaziah, for they knew not that he had slain them

both: So Jehu gave orders that they should catch these, and kill

them, being in number forty-two persons.

6. After these, there met him a good and a righteous man,

whose name was Jehonadab ,' and who had been his friend of old.

He saluted Jehu, and began to commend him, because he had

done every thing according to the will of God, in extirpating the

house of Ahab. So Jehu desired him to come up into his cha足

riot, and make his entry with him into Samaria; and told

him, That "he would not spare one wicked man, but would

"punish the false prophets, and false priests, and those that de-

"ceived the multitude, and persuaded them to leave the wor-

"ship of God Almighty, and to worship foreign gods : and that

