104 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XI".

\

to the law of their country; and they offered the sacrifice whidi

was called the Passover, on the fourteenth day of the same

month, and feasted seven days, and spared for no cost, but of足

fered whole burnt-offerings to God, and performed sacrifices ot

thanksgiving, because God had led them again to the land ot"

their fathers, and to the laws thereto belonging, and had ren足

dered the mind of the king of Persia favourable to them. So

these men offered the largest sacrifices on these accounts, and

used great magnificence in the worship of God, and dwelt in

Jerusalem, and made use of a form of government that was

aristocratical, but mixed with an oligarchy, for the high priests

were at the head of their affairs, until the posterity of the Asa-

moneans set up kingly government; for before their captivity,

and the dissolution of their polity, they at first had kingly

government from Saul and Davidj for five hundred and thirty-

two years, six months, and ten days; but before those kings,

such rulers governed them as were called Judges and Monarchs.

Under this form of government they continued for more than

five hundred years, after the death of Moses, and of Joshua their

commander. And this is the account I had to give of the Jews

who had been carried into captivity, but were delivered from it

in the times of Cyrus and Darius.

9. * But the Samaritans, being evil and enviously disposed to

the Jews, wrought them many mischiefs, by reliance on their

riches, and by their pretence that they were allied to the Per足

sians, on account that thence they came; and whatsoever it was

that they were enjoined to pay the Jews by the king's order out

of their tributes, for the sacrifices, they would not pay it. They

had also the governors favourable to them and assisting them

for that purpose; nor did they spare to hurt them, either by

themselves, or by others; as far as they were able. So the Jews

determined to send an embassage to king Darius, in favour of

the people of Jerusalem, and in order to accuse the .Samaritans,

The ambassadors were Zorobabel, and four others of the rulers:

and as soon as the king knew from the ambassadors the accusa足

tions and complaints they brought against the Samaritans, he

gave them an epistle to be carried to the governors and council

of Samaria. The cpntents of which epistle were these: " King

"Darius to Tanganas and Sambabas, the governors of the Sa-

"maritans, to Sadraces and Bobelo, and the rest of their fell.ow-

"servants that are in Samaria; Zorobabel, Ananias, and Mor-

"decai, the ambassadors ofthe Jews, complain of you, that you

"obstruct them in the building of the temple, and do not sup-

* The history contained in this section is entirely wanting in all our other  
both of Ezra and Esdras.

