164 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JKWS. BOOK XII.

CHAP. V.

How, upon the quarrels of the Jews one against another about

the high priesthood, Antiochus made an expedition against Je­

rusalem, took the city and pillaged the temple, and distressed

the Jews: As also how many of the Jews forsook the laws of

their country,- and how the Samaritans followed the customs

of the Greeks, and named their temple at mount Gerizzim, the

temple of Jupiter Hellenius.

§ 1. ABOUT this time, upon the death of Onias the high

priest, they gave the high priesthood to Jesus' brother; tor

that son which Onias left [or Onias IV.] was yet but an in­

fant: and, in its proper place, we will inform the reader of all

the circumstances that befell this child. But this Jesus, who

was the brother of Onias, was deprived of the high priesthood

by the king, who was angry with him, and gave it to his

younger brother, whose name also was Onias, for Simon had

these three sons, to each of which the priesthood came as we

have * already informed the reader. This Jesus changed his

name to Jason; but Onias was called Menelaus. Now as the

former high priest, Jesus, raised a sedition against Menelaus,

who was ordained after him, the multitude were divided between

them both. And the sons of Tobias took the part of Menelaus,

but the greater part of the people assisted Jason: and by that

means Menelaus, and the sons of Tobias were distressed, and

retired to Antiochus, and informed him, that they were desir­

ous to leave the laws of their country, and the Jewish way of

living according to them, and to follow the king's laws, and the

Grecian way of living: Wherefore they desired his permission

to build them a f Gymnasium at Jerusalem. And when he had

* We have hitherto had but a few of those many citations where Josephus says,  
that he had elsewhere formerly treated of many things, of which yet his
present

hooks have not a syllable. Our commentators have hitherto been able to give no

tolerable account of these citations, which are far too numerous, and that
usually in

all his copies, both Greek and Latin, to be supposed later interpolations,
which is

almost all that has been hitherto said upon this occasion. What I have to say
far­

ther is this, that we have but very few of these references before, and very
many in

and after the history of Antiochus Epiphanes; and that Josephus' first book,
the

Hebrew or Chaldee, as well as the Greek history of the Jewish War, long since
lost,

began with that very history, so that the references are most probably made to
that

edition of the seven Books of the War. See several other examples, besides
those

in the two sections before us, in Antiq. B. XIII. chap. ii. sect . 1, 4. vol.
II. and

rhap. iv. sect. 6, 8. chap, v* sect. 6, 11. chap. viii. sect. 4. and chap.
xiii. sect. 4, 5.

and Antiq. B. XVIII- chap. ii. sect. 5. vol. III.

f This word Gymnasium, properly denotes a place where the exercises were per­

formed naked, which because it would naturally distinguish circumcised Jews
front

