Chap. VIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 4O7

nor did he set any bounds to himself, but supposing that those

who staid with him had the most power to hurt him, they were

to him very frightful; and for those that did not use to come

to him, it seemed enough to name them [to make them suspected]

and he thought himself safer when they were destroyed: And at

last his domestics were come to that pass, that being no way se­

cure of escaping themselves, they fell to accusing one another,

and imagining that he who first accused another, was most likely

to save himself; yet, when any had overthrown others, they

were hated, and they were thought to suffer justly, who unjustly

accused others, and they only thereby prevented their own

accusation; nay, they now executed their own private enmities

by this means, and when they were caught, they were punished

in the same way. Thus these men contrived to make use of

this opportunity as an instrument and a snare against their ene­

mies, yet when they tried it, were themselves caught also in the

same snare which they kid for others: And the king soon re­

pented of what he had done, because he had no clear evidence of

the guilt of those whom he had slain; and yet what was still

more severe in him, he did not make use of his repentance, in

order to leave off doing the like again, but in order to inflict

the same punishment upon their accusers.

8. And in this state of disorder were the affairs of the palace:

and he had already told many of his friends directly, that they

ought not to appear before him, nor come into the palace; and

the reason of this injunction was, that [when they were there]

he had less freedom of acting, or a greater restraint on himself

on their account: for at this time it was that he expelled An-

dromachus and Gamellus, men who had of old been his friends,

and been very useful to him in the affairs of his kingdom, and

been of advantage to his family, by their embassages and coun­

sels; and had been tutors to his sons, and had in a manner the

first degree of freedom with him. He expelled Andromachus,

because his son Demetrius was a companion to Alexander; and

Gamellus, because he knew that he wished him well, which

arose from his having been with him in his youth, when he was

at school, and absent at Rome. These he expelled out of his

palace, and was willing enough to have done worse by them;

but that he might not seem to take such liberty against men oi"

so great reputation, he contented himself with depriving them

of their dignity, and of their power to hinder his wicked pro­

ceedings.

-t. Now it was Antipater, who was the cause of all this; who  
when he knew what a mad and licentious way of acting his fa­

ther was in, and had been a great while one of his counsellors,

be hurried him on, and then thought he should bring him to do

