302 ANTIO,UJTIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIV.

CHAP. XIV.

How Herod got away from the king of Arabia, and made haste

to go into Egypt, and thence -went away in haste also to Rome:

and how, by promising a great deal of money to Antony, lie

obtained of'the senate and of'Caesar, to be made king of the

Jews.

§ 1. A s for Herod, the great miseries he was in did not dis­

courage him, but made him sharp in discovering surprising

undertakings; for he went to Malchus, king of Arabia, whom he

had formerly been very kind to, in order to receive somewhat

by way of requital, now he was in more than ordinary want of

it, and desired he would let him have some money, either by way

of loan, or as his free gift, on account of the many benefits he

had received from him; for not knowing what was become of his

brother, he was in haste to redeem him out of the hands of his

enemies, as willing to give three hundred talents for the price

of his redemption. He also took with him the son of Phasaelus,

who was a child of but seven years of age, for this very reason

that he might be a hostage for the repayment of the money;

but there came messengers from Malchus to meet him, by

whom he was desired to be gone, for that the Parthians had

laid a charge upon him not to entertain Herod. This was only

a pretence which he made use of that he might not be obliged to

repay him what he owed him: and this he was farther induced

to, by the principal men among the Arabians, that they might

theat him of what sums they had received from [his father] An-

tipater, and which he had committed to their fidelity. He made

answer that he did not intend to be troublesome to them by his

coming thither, but that he desired only to discourse with them

about certain affairs that were to him cf the greatest import­

ance.

2. Hereupon he resolved to go away, and did go very prudent­

ly the road to Egypt; and then it was that he lodged in a cer­

tain temple, for he had left a great many of his followers there.

On the next day he came to Rhinocolura, and there it was that he

heard what was befallen his brother. Though Malchus soon re­

pented of what he had done, and came running after Herod, but

with no manner of success, for he was gotten a very great way

off, and made haste into the road to Pelusium; and when the sta­

tionary ships that lay there hindered him from sailing to Alex­

andria, he wentto their captains, by whose assistance, and that out

of much reverence of, and great regard to him, he was conducted

into the city [Alexandria,] and was retained there by Cleopatra,

