Chap. XVI. ANTigmTiES OF THE JEWS. 249

"like brute beasts, without any help whatsoever. They said

"also, that if their adversaries would be satisfied with those

"that had been slain already, they would take what had been

"done patiently, on account of their natural love to their go-

"vernors; but if they must expect the same for the future

"also, they implored of her a dismission from her service, for

"they could not bear to think of attempting any method for

"their deliverance without her, but would rather die willingly

"before the palace-gate, in case she would not forgive them.

"And that it was a great shame both for themselves, and for

"the queen, that when they were neglected by her, they should

"come under the lash of her husband's enemies; for that Are-

"tas, the Arabian king, and the monarchs, would give any

"reward, if they could get such men as foreign auxiliaries, to

"whom their very names, before their voices be heard, may

"perhaps be terrible: But if they could not obtain this their

"second request, and if she had determined to prefer the Pha-

"risees before them, they still insisted that she would place

"them every one in her fortresses; for if some fatal demon had

"a constant spite against Alexander's house, they would be will-

"ing to bear their part, and to live in a private station there."

3. As these men said thus, and called upon Alexander's ghost

for commiseration of those already slain, and those in danger of

it, all the bystanders broke out into tears: But Aristobulus

chiefly made manifest what were his sentiments, and used many

reproachful expressions to his mother [saying,] "Nay, indeed,

"the case is this, that they have been themselves the authors,

"of their own calamities, who have permitted a woman who,

"against reason, was mad with ambition, to reign over them,

"when there were sons in the flower of their age fitter for it."

So Alexandra not knowing what to do with any decency, com­

mitted the fortresses to them, all but Hyrcania and Alexan-

drium, and Macherus, where her principal treasures were.

After a little while also, she sent her son Aristobulus with an

army to Damascus against Ptolemy, who was called Menneus

who was such a bad neighbour to the city; but he did nothing

considerable there and so returned home.

4. About this time news was brought that Tigranes, the king

of Armenia, had made an irruption into Syria with * five hun­

dred thousand soldiers, and was coming against Judea. This news,

* The number of 500,000 or even 300,000, as one Greek copy, with the Latin  
copies have it, Tigranes' army, that came out of Armenia into Syria and Judea

seems much too large. We have had already several such extravagant numbers in

Josephus' present copies, which are not to be at all ascribed to him.
Accordingly,

I incline to Dr. Hudson's emendation here, which supposes them but 40,000.

