Chap. VI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 61

as if the prophet were a diviner against the king, they accused

Jeremiah, and bringing him before the court they required that

a sentence and a punishment might be given against him. Now

all the rest gave their votes for his condemnation, but the elders

refused, who prudently sent away the prophet from the court of

[the prison] and persuaded the rest to do Jeremiah no harm;

for they said, that "he was not the only person who foretold

"what would come to the city, but that Micath signified the same

"before him, as well as many others, none of which suffered

"any thing of the kings that then reigned, but were honoured as

"the prophets of God." So they mollified the multitude with

these words, and delivered Jeremiah from the punishment to

which he was condemned. Now when this prophet had -written

all his prophecies, and the people were fasting, and assembled at

the temple, on the ninth month of the fifth year of Jehoiakim, he

read the book he had composed of his predictions, of what was to

befall the city, and the temple, and the multitude. And when the

rulers heard of it, they took the book from him, and bid him and

Baruch the scribe to go their ways, lest they should be discovered

by one or other; but they carried the book, and gave it to the

king, so he gave order, in the presence of his friends, that his

scribe should take it, and read it. When the king heard what

it contained, he was angry, and tore it, and cast it into the fire,

where it was consumed. He also commanded, that they should

seek for Jeremiah and Baruch the scribe, and bring them to

him, that they might be punished. However they escaped his

anger.

3. Now a little time afterward, the king of Babylon made an

expedition against Jehoiakim, whom he received [into the city,]

and this out of fear of the foregoing predictions of this prophet,

as supposing that he should suffer nothing that was terri­

ble, because he neither shut the gates, nor fought against

him; yet when he was come into the city, he did not observe

the covenants he had made, but he slew .such as were in the

flower of their age, and such as were of the greatest dignity,

together with their king Jehoiakim, whom he commanded

to be thrown before the walls, without any burial; and made

his son Jehoiachin king of the country, and of the city: he also

took the principal persons in dignity for captives, three thousand

in number, and led them away to Babylon; among whom was

the prophet Ezekiel, who was then but young. And this was

the end of king Jehoiakim, when he had lived thirty-six years,

and of them reigned eleven ; but Jehoiachin succeeded him in the

kingdom, whose mother's name was Nehushta: she was a citizen

of Jerusalem. He reigned three months and ten days.

