Chap. VI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 119

and not to think it a dishonourable thing in her to put on a

humble habit, for the safety of her nation, wherein she might

deprecate the ruin of the Jews, who were in danger of it; for that

Haman, whose dignity was only inferior to that of the king's,

had accused the Jews, and had irritated the king against them.

When she was informed of this, she sent to Mordecai again,

and told him that she was not called by the king, and that he

who goes in to him without being called, is to be slain, unless

when he is willing to save any one, he holds out his golden scep­

tre to him; but that to whomsoever he does so, although he go

in without being called, that person is so far from being slain,

that he obtains pardon, and is entirely preserved. Now when

the eunuch carried this message from Esther to Mordecai, he

bade him also tell her that she must not only provide for her own

preservation, but for the common preservation of her nation, for

that if she now neglected this opportunity, there would certainly

arise help to them from God some other way, but she and her

father's house would be destroyed by those whom she now de­

spised. But Esther sent the very same eunuch back to Mor­

decai [to desire him] to go to Shushan, and to gather the Jews

that were there together to a congregation, and to fast and ab­

stain from all sorts of food, on her account, and [to let him know

that] she with her maidens would do the same; and then she

promised that she would go to the king, though it were against

the law, and that if she must die for it, she would not refuse it.

8. Accordingly, Mordecai did as Esther had enjoined him,

and made the people fast; and he besought God, together with

them, " Not to overlook his nation, particularly at this time,.

"when it was going to be destroyed; but that, as he had often

"before provided for them, and forgiven, when they had sinned,

"so he would now deliver them from that destruction which was

"denounced against them; for although it was not all the nation

"that had offended, yet must they so ingloriously be slain, and

"that he was himself the occasion of the wrath of Haman, be-

"cause said he, I did not worship him, nor could I endure to

"pay that honour to him which I used to pay to thee, O Lord,

"for upon that his anger hath he contrived this present mis-

"chief against those that have not transgressed thy laws." The

same supplications did the multitude put up; and entreated that

God would provide for their deliverance, and free the Israelites

that were in all the eaith from this calamity which was now

coming upon them, for they had it before their eyes, and ex­

pected its coming. Accordingly Esther made supplication to

God after the manner of her country, by casting herself down

upon the earth, and putting on her mourning garments, and bid­

ding farewell to meat and drink; and all delicacies, for three days,

