Chap. VII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 221

was not admitted by any of the cities on account of Trypho,

'Cleopatra sent to him, and invited him to marry her, and to take

the kingdom. The reasons why she made this invitation were

these: That her friends persuaded her to it, and that she was

afraid for herself, in case some of the people of Seleucia should

deliver up the city to Trypho.

2. As Antiochus was now come to Seleucia, and his forces

increased every day, he marched to fight Trypho; and having

beaten him in the battle, he ejected him out of thellpper Syria

into Phenicia, and pursued him thither, and besieged him in

Dora, which was a fortress hard to be taken, whither he had

fled. He also sent ambassadors to Simon the Jewish high priest,

about a league of friendship and mutual assistance; who readily

accepted of the invitation, and sent to Antiochus great sums of

money, and provisions, for those that besieged Dora, and there­

by supplied them very plentifully, so that for a little while he

was looked upon as one of his most intimate friends: but still

Trypho fled from Dora to Apamia, where he was taken during

the siege, and put to death, when he had reigned three years.

3. However, Antiochus forgot the kind assistance that Simon

had afforded him in his necessity: by reason of his covetous and

wicked disposition, and committed an army of soldiers to his

friend Cendebeus, and sent him at once to ravage Judea, and to

seize Simon. When Simon heard of Antiochus' breaking his

league with him, although he were now in years, yet, pro­

voked with the unjust treatment he had met with from Antio­

chus, and taking a resolution brisker than his age could well

bear, he went like a young man to act as general of his army.

He also sent his sons before among the most hardy of his sol­

diers, and he himself marched on with his army another way,

and laid many of his men in ambushes in the narrow vallevsi

between the mountains; nor did he fail of success in any one of

his attempts, but was too hard for his enemies in every one of

them. So he led the rest of his life in peace, and did also him­

self make a league with the Romans.

4. Now he was the ruler of the Jews in all eight years; but

at a feast came to his end. It was caused by the treachery of

his son-in-law Ptolemy; who caught also his wife, and two

of his sons, and kept them in bonds. He also sent some

to kill John the third son, whose name was Hyrcanus ,- but the

young man perceiving them coming, he * avoided the danger he

* Here Josephus begins to follow, and to abridge the next sacred Hebrew book,  
Jtyledintheendof the first book of Maccabees, The Chronicle of John's
[ffyrcanus']

l/igh priesthood, but in some of the Greek copies the fourth book of
Maccabeus. A

Greek version of this chronicle was extant not very long ago, in the days of
Santes

Fagninus and Sixtus Senensis, at Lyons, though it see?- to have been there
burnt,

