ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book. XIV.

"pointed to govern." And when Antipater had said this to

them, he himself settled the affairs of this country.

2. And seeing that Hyrcanus was of a slow and slothful tem­

per, he made Phasaelus, his eldest son, governor of Jerusalem,

and of the places that were about it, but committed Galilee to

Herod, his next son, who was then a very young man, for he

was but * fifteen years of age: But that youth of his was no

impediment to him; but as he was a youth of great mind, he

presently met with an opportunity of signalizing his courage;

for finding that there was one Hezekias, a captain of a band of

robbers, who overran the neighbouring parts of Syria, with a

great troop of them, he seized him, and slew him, as well as a

great number of the other robbers that were with him; for

which action he was greatly beloved by the Syrians; for when

they were very desirous to have their country freed from this

nest of robbers, he purged it of them: So they sung songs in

his commendation, in their villages and cities, as having pro­

cured them peace, and the secure enjoyment of their possessions,

and on this account it was that he became known to Sextus Cae-

sar, who was a relation of the great Caesar's, and was now pre­

sident of Syria. Now Phasaelus, Herod's brother, was moved

with emulation at his actions, and envied the fame he had there­

by gotten, and became ambilious not to be behind hand with him

in deserving it: So he made the inhabitants of Jerusalem bear

him the greatest good-will, while he held the city himself, but

did neither manage its affairs improperly, nor abuse his autho­

rity therein. This conduct procured from the nation to Anti-

pater such respect as is due to kings, and such honours as he

might partake of if he were an absolute lord of the country.

Yet did not this splendour of his, as frequently happens, in the

least diminish in him that kindness and fidelity which he owed

to Hyrcanus.

3. But now the principal men among the Jews, when they

saw Antipater and his sons to grow so much in the good-will

the nation bare to them, and in the revenues which they received

out of Judea, and out of Hyrcanus' own wealth, they became

ill disposed to him: for indeed Antipater had contracted a friend­

ship with the Roman emperors: and when he had prevailed

with Hyrcanus to send them money, he took it to himself, and

* Those who will carefully observe the several occasional numbers and chronolo­  
gical characters in the life and death of this Herod, and of his childien,
hereafter

noted, will ste, that twenty-Jive years, and not fifteen, must for certain
have been

here Josepbus own number for the age of Herod, when he was made governor of

Galilee. See chap, xxiii. sect. 5. and chap. xxiv. sect. 7. and particularly
Antiq. B.

XVII. chap. viii. sect. 1. vol. III. »her« about 44 years afterwards Herod
dies an

old man at about 70.

