Clmp. IV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 157

to hear that offer; and because it augmented his revenues, he

said he would confirm the sale of the taxes to him. But then

he asked him this question, Whether he had any sureties that

would be bound for the payment of the money? he answered

very pleasantly, I will give such security, and those of persons

good and responsible, and which you shall have no reason to dis­

trust. And when he bid him name them, who they were, he

replied, I give thee no other persons, O king, for my sureties,

than myself and this thy wife; and you shall be security for

both parties. So Ptolemy laughed at the proposal, and granted

him the farming of the taxes without any sureties. This pro­

cedure was a sore grief to those that came from the cities into

Egypt, who were utterly disappointed; and they returned every

one to their own country with shame.

5. But Joseph took with him two thousand foot soldiers from

the king, for he desired he might have some assistance, in order

to force such as were refractory in the cities to pay. And bor­

rowing of the king's friends at Alexandria five hundred talents,

he made haste back into Syria. And when he was at Askelon,

and demanded the taxes of the people of Askelon, they refused

to pay any thing; and affronted him also: upon which he seized

upon about twenty of the principal men, and slew them, and ga­

thered what they had together, and sent it all to the king: and

informed him what he had done. Ptolemy admired the pru­

dent conduct of the man, and commended him for what he had

done; and gave him leave to do as he pleased. When the Sy­

rians heard of this, they were astonished: and having before

them a sad example in the men of Askelon that were slain, they

opened their gates, and willingly admitted Joseph, and paid their

taxes. And when the inhabitants of Scythopolis attempted to

affront him, and would not pay him those taxes which they for­

merly used to pay, without disputing about them, he slew also

the principal men of that city, and sent their effects to the king.

By this means he gathered great wealth together, and made vast

gains by this farming of the taxes: and he made use of what

estate he had thus gotten, in order to support his authority, as

thinking it a piece of prudence to keep what had been the oc­

casion and foundation of his present good fortune; and this he

did by the assistance of what he was already possessed of, for he

privately sent many presents to the king, and to Cleopatra, and

to their friends, and to all that were powerful about the court,

and thereby purchased their good-will to himself.

6. This good fortune he enjoyed for twenty-two years: and

was become the father of seven sons, by one wife: he had also

another son, whose name was Hyrcanus, by his brother Soly-

mius' daughter, whom he married on the following occasion.

