ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVI.

"number of benefits which this government hath bestowed on

"them in order to their happiness, this is instead of all the rest,

"that they appear to be no longer in a state of slavery, but of

"freedom. Now the privileges we desire, even when we are

"in the best circumstances, are not such as deserve to be en-

"vied, for we are indeed in a prosperous state by your means,

"but this is only in common with others; and it is no more

"than this which we desire, to preserve our religion without

"any prohibition; which as it appears not in itself a privilege

"to be envied us, so it is for the advantage of those that grant

"it to us; for if the divinity delights in being honoured, he must

"delight in those that permit them to be honoured: and there

"are none of our customs which are inhuman, but all tending

"to piety, and devoted to the preservation of justice; nor do

"we conceal those injunctions of ours, by which we govern our

"lives, they being memorials of piety, and of a friendly con-

"versation among men: And * the seventh day we set apart from

"labour; it is dedicated to the learning of our customs and

"laws, we thinking it proper to reflect on them, as well as on

"any [good] thing else, in order to our avoiding of sin. If any

"one, therefore, examine into our observances, he will find they

"are good in themselves, and that they are ancient also, though

"some think otherwise, insomuch, that those who have received

"them, cannot easily be brought to depart from them, out of

"that honour they pay to the length of time they have Ve-

"ligiously enjoyed them, and observed them. Now our adver-

"saries take these our privileges away, in the way of injustice:

"they violently seize upon that money of ours which is offered

"to God, and called sacred money, and this openly, after a sa-

"criligious manner; and they impose tributes upon us, and

"bring us before tribunals on holy-days, and then require

"other like debts of us, not because the contracts require it, or

"for their own advantage, but because they would put an af-

*' front on our religion, of which they are conscious as well as  
"we, and have indulged themselves in an unjust, and, to them

"involuntary, hatred; for your government over all is one,

"tending to the establishing of benevolence, and abolishing of

"ill-will among such as ate disposed to it. This is therefore

"what we implore from thee, most excellent Agrippa, that we

"may not be ill treated; that we may not be abused; that we

"may not be hindered from making use of our own customs;

"nor be despoiled of our goods; nor be forced by these men to

* We may here observe the ancient practice of the Jews of dedicating the Sab­  
bath-da; not to idleness, but to the learning their sacred rites and religious
customs,

and to die meditation on the law of Moses. The like to which we meet with
else­

where in Jotephus, also against A pion, 6. I. sect . 22.

