Chap. X. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 229

his attack against it, and besieged it with a great deal of pains,

for he was greatly displeased with the Samaritans for the injuries

they had done to the people of Merissa, a colony of the Jews,

and confederate with them, and this in compliance to the kings

of Syria. When he had therefore drawn a ditch, and built a

double wall round the city, which were fourscore furlongs long,

he set his sons Antigonus and Aristobulus over the siege, which

brought the Samaritans to that great distress by famine, that they

were forced to eat what used not to be eaten, and to call for An-

tiochus Cyzicenus to help them, who came readily to their assist­

ance, but was beaten by Aristobulus, and when he was pursued

as far as Scythopolis by the two brethren, he got away: So they

returned to Samaria, and shut them again within the wall, till

they were forced to send for the same Antiochus a second time

to help them, who procured about six thousand men from Pto­

lemy Lathyrus, which were sent them without his mother's

consent, who had then in a manner turned him out of his go­

vernment. With these Egyptians Antiochus did at first over­

run and ravage the country of Hyrcanus after the manner of a

robber, for he durst not meet him in the face to fight with him,

as not having an army sufficient for that purpose, but only from

this supposal, that by thus harassing his land he should force

Hyrcanus to raise the siege of Samaria; but because he fell in­

to snares, and lost many of his soldiers therein, he went away

to Tripoli, and committed the prosecution of the war against

the Jews to Callimander and Epicrates.

3. But as to Callimander, he attacked the enemy too rashly,

and was put to flight, and destroyed immediately; and as to E-

picrates, he was such a lover of money, that he openly betrayed

Scythopolis, and other places near it, to the Jews, but was not

able to make them raise the siege of Samaria. And when Hyr­

canus had taken that city, which was not done till after a year's

siege, he was not contented with doing that only, but he demo­

lished it entirely, and brought rivulets to it to drown it, for he

dug such hollows as might let the water run under it; nay, he

took away the very marks that there had ever been such a city

there. Now a very surprising thing is related of this high priest

Hyrcanus, how God came to discourse with him: for they say,

that on the very same day on which his sons fought with An­

tiochus Cyzicenus, he was alone in the temple, as high priest of­

fering incense, and heard a voice, that " his sons had just then

"overcome Antiochus." And this he openly declared before

all the multitude upon his coming out of the temple; and it ac­

cordingly proved true: and in this posture were the affairs of

Hyrcanus.

