Chap. IV. AN-iiguiTiES or THE JEWS. 55

CHAP. IV.

Hffx Amon reigned- instead of Manassek; and after Amon, reign'

ed Josiah; he was both righteous and religious. As also con­

cerning Hulddh the prophetess.

§ 1. 1 HIS Amon imitated those works of his father which

he insolently did when he was young: so he had a conspiracy

made against him by his own servants, and was slain in his own

house, when he had lived twenty-four years, and of them

had reigned two-. But the multitude punished those that slew

Amon, and buried him with his father, and gave the kingdom

to his son Josiah, who was eight years old. His mother was

of the city of Boscath; and her name was Jedidah. He was of

a most excellent disposition, and naturally virtuous, and fol­

lowed the actions of king David, as a pattern and rule to him

in the whole conduct of his life. And when he was twelve

years old, he gave demonstrations of his religious and righteous

behaviour; for he brought the people to a sober way of living,

and exhorted them to leave off' the opinion they had of their

idols, because they were not gods, but to worship their own

God. And by reflecting on the actions of his progenitors, he

prudently corrected what they did wrong, like a very elderly

man, and like one abundantly able to understand what was fit to

be done, and when he found they had well done, he observed all

the country over, and imitated the same. And thus he acted in

following the wisdom and sagacity of his own nature, and in

following the laws it was that he succeeded so well in the order

of his government, and in piety with regard to the divine wor­

ship. And this happened because the transgressions of the for-

-ner kings were seen no more, but quite vanished away; for the  
dng went about the city, and the whole country, and cut down

the groves which were devoted to strange gods, and overthrew

their altars; and if there were any gifts dedicated to them by

his forefathers, he made them ignominious and plucked them

down, and by this means he brought the people back from their

opinion about them to the worship of God. He also offered his

accustomed sacrifices and burnt-offerings upon the altar. More­

over, he ordained certain judges and overseers, that they might

order the matters to them severally belonging, and have regard

to justice above all things, and distribute it with the same con­

cern they would have about their own soul. He also sent over

all the country, and desired such as pleased to bring gold and

silver for the repairs of the temple, according to every one's in­

clinations and abilities. And when the money was brought in,

