350 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XV.

7. But when she was once dead, the king's affections for her

were kindled in a more outrageous manner than before, whose

old passion for her we have already described: for his love to hel

Tvas not of a calm nature, nor such as we usually meet with among

other husbands, for at its commencement it was of an enthusiastic

kind, nor was it by their long cohabitation and free conversation

together, brought under his power to manage; but at this time

his love to Mariamne seemed to seize him in such a peculiar

manner, as looked like divine vengeance upon him, for the tak­

ing away her life, for he would frequently call for her, and fre­

quently lament for her in a most indecent manner. Moreover,

he bethought him of every thing he could make use of to divert

his mind from thinking of her, and contrived feasts and assem­

blies for that purpose, but nothing would suffice; he therefore

laid aside the administration of public affairs, and was so far con­

quered by his passion, that he would order his servants to call

for Mariamne, as if she were still alive, and could still hear them.

And when he was in this way, there arose a pestilential disease,

and carried off' the greatest part of the multitude, and of his best

and most esteemed friends, and made all men suspect that this

was brought upon them by the anger of God, for the injustice

that had been done to Mariamne. This circumstance affected

the king still more, till at length he forced himself to go into de­

sert places, and there, under pretence of going a hunting, bitterly

afflicted himself; yet had he not borne his grief there many

days before he fell into a most dangerous distemper himself:

He had an inflammation upon him, and a pain in the hinder part

of his head, joined with madness: and for the remedies that were

used, they did him no good at all, but proved contrary to his

case, and so at length brought him to despair. All the physi­

cians also that were about him, partly because the medicines

they brought for his recovery could not at all conquer the disease,

and partly because his diet could be no other than what his dis­

ease inclined him to, desired him to eat whatever he had a mind

to, and so left the small hopes they had of his recovery in the

power of that diet, and committed him to fortune. And thus

did his distemper go on, while he was at Samaria, now called

Sebaste.

8. Now Alexandra abode at this time in Jerusalem, and being

informed what condition Herod was in, she endeavoured to get

possession of the fortified places that were about the city, which

were two, the one belonging to the city itself) the other be­

longing to the temple; and those that could get them into their

hands had the whole nation under their power, for without the

command of them it was not possible to offer their sacrifices;

and to think of leaving off" those sacrifices, is to every Jew plain­

