26 ANTIQUITIES OF .THE JEWS. Book IX.

also opened that armoury which David had made in the temple,

and distributed to the captains of hundreds, as also to the priests

and Levites, all the spears and quivers, and what kind of

weapons soever it contained, and set them armed in a circle round

about the temple; so as to touch one another's hands, and by that

means excluding those from entering that ought not to enter.

So they brought the child into the midst of them, and, put on

him the royal crown, and Jehoiada anointed him with the oil,

and made him king; and the multitude rejoiced; and made a

noise, and cried, "God save the king."

3. When Athaliah unexpectedly heard the tumult and the

acclamations; she was greatly disturbed in her mind, and sud­

denly issued out of the royal palace with her own army; and

when she was come to the temple, the priests received her, but

as for those that stood round about the temple, as they were

ordered by the high priest to do, they hindered the armed men

that followed her from going in. But when Athaliah saw the

child standing upon a pillar, with the royal crown upon his head,

she rent her clothes, and cried out vehemently, and commanded

[her guards] to kill him that had laid snares for her, and endea­

voured to deprive her of the government: But Jehoiada called

for the captains of hundreds, and commanded them to bring

Athaliah to the valley of Cedron, and slay her there, for he

would not have the temple defiled with the punishment of this

pernicious woman ; and he gave order, that if any one came near

to help her, he should be slain also: wherefore those that had the

charge of her slaughter, took hold of her, and led her to the

gate of the kings' mules, and slew her there.

4. Now as soon as what concerned Athaliah was by this

stratagem, after this manner despatched, Jehoiada called together

the people and the armed men into the temple, and made them

take an oath that they would be obedient to the king, and take

care of his safety, and of the safety of his government; after

which he obliged the king to give security [upon oath] that he

would worship God, and not transgress the laws of Moses. They

then ran to the house of Baal, which Athaliah and her husband

Jehoram had built, to the dishonour of the God of their fathers,

and to the honour of Ahab, and demolished it, and slew Matan,

that had his priesthood. But Jehoiada entrusted the care and

Custody of the temple to the priests and Levites, according to

the appointment of king David, and enjoined them to bring

their regular burnt-offerings twice a-day, and to offer incense

according to the law. He also ordained some of the Levites,

with the porters, to be a guard to the temple, that no one ths:

was defiled might come there.

5. And when Jehoiada had set these things in order, he, with

