Chap. VI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 343

men. They also had it in charge, that if they should hear any

mischief had befallen him, they should kill them both, and as

far as they were able, to preserve the kingdom for his sons,

and for his brother Pheroras.

6. When he had given them this charge, he made haste to

Rhodes, to meet Caesar; and when he had sailed to that city,

he took off his diadem, but remitted nothing else of his usual

dignity: And when, upon his meeting him, he desired that he

would let him speak to him, he therein exhibited a much more

noble specimen of a great soul, for he did not betake himself to

supplications, as men usually do upon such occasions, nor offered

him any petition, as if he were an offender, but after an un­

daunted manner, gave an account of what he had done; for he

spake thus to Caesar, That " he had the greatest friendship for

"Antony, and did every thing he could that he might attain the

"government, That he was not indeed in the army with him,

"because the Arabians had diverted him, but that he had sent

"him both money and corn, which was but too little in com-

"parison of what he ought to have done for him; for, if a man

"owns himself to be another's friend, and knows him to be a

"benefactor, he is obliged to hazard every thing, to use every

"faculty of his soul, every member of his body, and all the

"wealth he hath, for him, in which I confess I have been too

"deficient. However, I am conscious to myself, that so far I

"have done right, that I have not deserted him upon his defeat

"at Actium: nor upon the evident change of his fortune have

"I transferred my hopes from him to another, but have pre-

"served myself, though not as a valuable fellow-soldier, yet

"certainly as a faithful counsellor to Antony, when I demon-

"strated to him that the only way that he had to save himself,

"and not to lose all his authority, was to slay Cleopatra; for

"when she was once dead, there would be room for him to re-

"tain his authority, and rather to bring thee to make a compo-

"sition with him, than to continue at enmity any longer. None

"of which advices would he attend too, but preferred his own

"rash resolutions before them, which have happened unpro-

"fitably for him, but profitably for thee. Now therefore in

"case thou determines! about me, and my alacrity in serving

"Antony, according to thy anger at him, I own there is no

"room for me to deny what I have done, nor will I be ashamed

"to own, and that publicly too, that I had a great kindness for

"him: But if thou wilt put him out of the case, and only ex-

"amine how I behave myself to my benefactors in general, and

"what sort of a friend I am, thou wilt rind by experience that

'" we shall do and be the same to thyselfj for h. is but changing

"the names, and the firmness of friendship that we shall bear

"to thee, will not be disapproved by thee."

