338 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEVVh. Book XV.

"he knows it to be a just war; for while some of the people in

"the country have perished, all you who were in arms have suf-

"fered nothing, but are all preserved alive; whereby God

"makes it plain to us, that if you had universally, with your

"children and wives, been in the army, it had come to pass,

"that you had not undergone any thing that would have much

"hurt you. Consider these things, and what is more than all

M the rest, that you have God at all times for your protector;

"and prosecute these men with a just bravery, who, in point of

"friendship are unjust, in their battles perfidious, towards am-

"bassadors impious, and always inferior to you in valour."

4. When the Jews heard this speech, they were much raised

in their minds, and more disposed to fight than before. So He­

rod, when he had * offered the sacrifices appointed by the law,

made haste, and took them, and led them against the Arabians'

and in order to that passed over Jordan, and pitched his camp

near to that of the enemy. He also thought fit to seize upon a

certain castle that lay in the midst of them, as hoping it would

be for his advantage, and would the sooner produce a battle, and

that if there were occasion for delay, he should by it have his

camp fortified; and as the Arabians had the same intentions

upon that place, a contest arose about it; at first they were but

skirmishes, after which there came more soldiers, and it proved

a sort of fight, and some fell on both sides, till those of the Ara­

bian side were beaten and retreated. This was no small encour­

agement to the Jews immediately; and when Herod observed

that the enemies' army was disposed to any thing rather than to

come to an engagement, he ventured boldly to attempt the bul­

wark itself, and to pull it to pieces, and so to get nearer to their

camp, in order to fight them; for when they were forced out

of their trenches, they went out in disorder, and had not the least

alacrity, or hope of victory; yet did they fight hand to hand,

because they were more in number than the Jews, and because

they were in such a disposition of war that they were under a

necessity of coming on boldly: so they came to a terrible battle,

while not a few fell on each side. However, at length the Ara­

* This piece of religion, the supplicating God with sacrifices, by Herod, before he  
went to this fight with the Arabians, taken notice of also in the first book
of the

War, ch. xix. sect 5. vol. III. is worth remarking, because it is the only
example ot

this nature, so far as I remember, that Josephus ever mentions in all his
large and

particular accounts of this Herod; and it was when he had been in mighty
distress,

and discouraged by a great defeat of his former army, and by a very great
earthquake

in Judea, such times of affliction making men most religious. Nor was he
disap­

pointed of his hopes here, but immediately gained a most signal victory over
the

Arabians, while they who just before had been so great victors, and so much
elevated

upon the earthquake in Judca as to venture to slay the Jewish ambassadors, wen

now under a strange consternation, and hardly able to fight at all.

