276 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. BookXIV.

threatened him beforehand, if he did not do it. Which epistle

of his was the occasion of Hyrcanus' delivering Herod from

suffering any harm from the sanhedrim, for he loved him as his

own son. But when Herod stood before the sanhedrim with

his body of men about him, he affrighted them all, and no one of

his former accusers durst after that bring any charge against him,

but there was a deep silence, and nobody knew what was to be

done. When affairs stood thus, one whose name was * Semeas, a

righteous man he was, and for that reason above all fear, who rose

up, and said, "O you that are assessors with me, and O thou

"that art our king, I neither have ever myself known such a case,

"nor do I suppose that any one of you can name its parallel, that

"one who is called to take his trial by us ever stood in such a

"manner before us; but every one whosoever he be, that comes

"to be tried by this sanhedrim, presents himself in a submissive

"manner, and like one that is in fear of himself, and that en-

"deavours to move us to compassion, with his hair dishevelled,

"and in a black mourning garment: but this admirable man

"Herod, who is accused of murder, and called to answer so heavy

"an accusation, stands here clothed in purple, and with the hair

"of his head finely trimmed, and with his armed men about him,

"that if we shall condemn him by our law, he may slay us, and

"by overbearing justice, may himself escape death. Yet do not

"I make this complaint against Herod himself: he is to be sure

"more concerned for himself than for the laws; but my com-

"plaint is against yourselves, and your king, who gave him a

"license so to do. However, take you notice, that God is

"great, and that this very man, whom you are going to absolve

"and dismiss, for the sake of Hyrcanus, will one day pun-

"ish both you and your king himself also." Nor did Semeas

mistake in any part of this prediction; for when Herod had re­

ceived the kingdom, he slew all the members of this sanhedrim,

and Hyrcanus himself also, excepting Semeas, for he had a great

honour for him on account of his righteousness, and because,

when the city was afterwards besieged by Herod and Sosius, he

persuaded the people to admit Herod into it; and told them,

"That for their sins they would not be able to escape his

"hands." Which things will be related by us in their proper

places.

5. But when Hyrcanus saw that the members of the sanhe­

drim were ready to pronounce the sentence of death upon He­

rod, he put off the trial to another day, and sent privately to

Herod, and advised him to fly out of the city, for that by this

means he might escape. So he retired to Damascus, as though

* This account, as Hol:md observes, is confirmed by the Talmudiits, who call this  
Semeas, Simeon the ton of Shetach.

