224 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIII.

those great numbers did nothing, he separated the useless part

and excluded them out of the city, and retained that part only

which were in the flower of their age, and fit for war. How­

ever Antiochus would not let those that were excluded go away,

who therefore wandering about between the walls, and consum­

ing away by famine, died miserably; but when the feast of ta­

bernacles was at hand, those that were within commiserated their

condition, and received them in again. And when Hyrcanus

sent to Antiochus, and desired there might be a truce, for seven

days, because of the festival, he gave way to his piety towards

God, and made that truce accordingly: and besides that, he sent

in a magnificent sacrifice, bulls with their * horns gilded with

all sorts of sweet spices, and with cups of gold and silver. So

those that were at the gates received the sacrifices from those

that brought them, and led them to the temple, Antiochus the

meanwhile feasting his army; which was a quite different con­

duct from Antiochus Epiphanes, who, when he had taken the

city, he offered swine upon the altar, and sprinkled the temple

with the broth of their flesh, in order to violate the laws of the

Jews, and the religion they derived from their forefathers; for

which reason our nation made war with him, and would never

be reconciled to him: but for this Antiochus, all men called

him Antiochus the Pious, for the great zeal he had about re­

ligion.

3. Accordingly Hyrcanus took this moderation of his kindly;

and when he understood how religious he was towards the Deity,

he sent an embassage to him, and desired that he would restore

the settlements they received from their forefathers. So he

rejected the counsel of those that f would have him utterly

destroy the nation by reason of their way of living, which was

to others unsociable, and did not regard what they said. But

being persuaded that all they did was out of a religious mind,

he answered the ambassadors, That if the besieged would deliver

up their arms and pay tribute for Joppa, and the other cities

which bordered upon Judea, and admit a garrison of his, on

these terms he would make war against them no longer. But

the Jews, although they were content with the other conditions,

did not agree to admit the garrison, because they could not as­

sociate with other people, nor converse with them; yet were they

willing, instead of the admission of the garrison, to give him

* Dr. Hudson tells us here, that this custom of gilding the horns of those oxen  
that were to be sacrificed, is a known thing both in the poets and orators.

f Thiii account in Josephus, that the present Antiochus, was persuaded, though
in

vain, not to make peace with the Jews, but to cut them off utterly, is fully
confirm­

ed by Diodorus Siculus, in I'hotius' extracts out of his 34th Book.

