Chap. IX. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 413

the captain of the Arabians, and about twenty of his soldiers,

fell, while the rest betook themselves to flight. So when he had

brought these to punishment, he placed three thousand Idu-

means in Trachonitis, and thereby restrained the robbers that

were there. He also sent an account to the captains that were

about Phenicia, and demonstrated, that he had done nothing but

what he ought to do, in punishing the refractory Arabians,

which, upon an exact inquiry, they found to be no more than

what was true.

3. However, messengers were hasted away to Sylleus to Rome,-

and informed him of what had been done, and, as is usual, aggra­

vated every thing. Now Sylleus had already insinuated himself

into the knowledge of Caesar, and was then about the palace:

and as soon as he heard of these things, he changed his habit

into black, and went in, and told Caesar, That " Arabia was af-

"flicted with war, and that all his kingdom was in great con-

"fusion, upon Herod's laying it waste with his army; and he

"said, with tears in his eyes, that two thousand five hundred of

"the principal men among the Arabians had been destroyed,

"and that their captain Nacebus, his familiar friend and kins-

"man, was slain; and that the riches that were at Raepta were

"carried off; and {hat Obodas was despised, whose infirm state

"of body rendered him unfit for war; on which account neither

"he, nor the Arabian army, were present." When Sylleus

said so, and added invidiously, That " he would not himself have

"come out of the country, unless he had believed that Caesar

"would have provided that they should all have peace one with

"another, and that, had he been there, he would have taken care

"that the war should not have been to Herod's advantage."

Caesar was provoked when this was said; and asked no more

than this one question, both of Herod's friends that were there,

and of his own friends, who were come from Syria, " Whe-

"ther Herod had led an army thither?" And when they were

forced to confess so much, Cajsar, without stay ing to hear for

what reason he did it, and how it was done, grew very angry,

and wrote to Herod sharply. The sum of his epistle was this,

That" whereas of old he had used him as his friend he should

"now use him as his subject." Sylleus also wrote an account

of this to the Arabians; who were so elevated with it, that they

neither delivered up the robbers that had fled to them, nor paid

the money that was due: they retained those pastures also

which they had hired, and kept them without paying their rent,

and all this because the king of the Jews was now in a low con­

dition, by reason of Caasar's anger at him. Those of Tracho­

nitis also made use of this opportunity, and rose up against the

Idumean garrison, and followed the same way of robbing with

