832 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XV'

'' was of the highest dignity of any of her sex at that time in

'' the world: and as to any advantage to be expected from such

*' an undertaking, if any such could be supposed in this case, it  
'' would appear to deserve condemnation, on account of the in-

'' solence he must take upon him in doing it. Which consider-

'' ations made it very plain that in so doing he would find his

'' government filled with mischiefs, both great and lasting,

"both to himself and his posterity, whereas it was still in his

"power to reject that wickedness she would persuade him to,

"and to come off honourably at the same time." So by thus

affrighting Herod, and representing to him the hazard he must,

in all probability, run by this undertaking, they restrained him

from it. So he treated Cleopatra kindly, and made her presents,

and conducted her on her way to Egypt.

3. But Antony subdued Armenia, and sent Artabazes, the

son of Tigranes, in bonds with his children and procurators, to

Egypt, and made a present of them, and of all the royal orna­

ments which he had taken out of that kingdom, to Cleopatra.

And Artaxias, the eldest of his sons, who had escaped at that

time, took the kingdom of Armenia; who yet was ejected by

Archelaus and Nero Caesar, when they restored Tigranes, his

younger brother, to that kingdom: But this happened a good

while afterward.

4. But then, as to the tributes which Herod was to pay Cleo­

patra for that country which Antony had given her, he acted

(airly with her, as deeming it not safe for him to afford any

cause for Cleopatra to hate him. As for the king of Arabia,

whose tribute Herod had undertaken to pay her, for some time

indeed he paid him as much as came to two hundred talents,

but he afterward became very niggardly, and slow in his pay­

ments, and could hardly be brought to pay some parts of it, and

was not willing to pay even them, without some deductions.

CHAP. V.

How Herod made war with the king of Arabia, and after they

had fought many battles, at length conquered him, and leas

chosen by the Arabs to be governor of that nation: As also

concerning a great earthquake.

4 1. HEREUPON Herod held himself ready to go against the

king of Arabia, because of his ingratitude to him, and be­

cause, after all, he would do nothing that was just to him, al­

though Herod made the Roman war an occasion of delaying his

own, for the battle at Actium, was now expected, which fell in­

to the hundred eighty and seventh Olympiad, where Caesar and

