8 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book IX.

was like his father Ahab in wickedness, and reigned twelve

years, indulging himself in all sorts of wickedness, and impiety

towards God, for leaving off his worship, he worshipped foreign

gods: but in other respects he was an active man. Now at this

time it was that Elijah disappeared from among men, and no one

knows of his death to this very day; but he left behind him-

his disciple Elisha as we have formeriy declared. And indeed,

as to Elijah, and as to Enoch, who was before the deluge, it is

written in the sacred books that they disappeared, but so that

nobody knew that they died.

CHAP. III.

How Joram 'and Jehoshaphat made an expedition against the

Moabites: As also concerning the wonders of Elisha; and the

death of Jehoshaphat.

§ 1. W HEN Joram had taken upon him the kingdom, he

determined to make an expedition against the king of Moab,

whose name was Mesha, - for, as we told you before, he was

departed from his obedience to his brother [Ahaziah], while

he paid to his father Ahab two hundred thousand sheep, with

their fleeces of wool. When therefore he had gathered his

own army together, he sent also to Jehoshaphat, and entreated

him, that since he had from the beginning been a friend to his

father; he would assist him in the war that he was entering into

against the Moabites, who had departed from their obedience,

who not only himself promised to assist him, but would also

oblige the king of Edom, who was under his authority, to make the

same expedition also. When Joram had received these assurances

of assistance from Jehoshaphat, he took his army with him, and

came to Jerusalem; and when he had been sumptuously entertained

by the king of Jerusalem, it was resolved upon by them to take

their march against their enemies through the wilderness of Edom;

And when they had taken a compass of seven days journey, they

were in distress for want of water for the cattle, and for the army,

from the mistake of their roads by the guides that conducted

them, insomuch that they were all in an agony, especially

Joram; and cried to God, by reason of their sorrow, and

[desired to know] what wickedness had been committed by

them that induced him to deliver three kings together, with­

out fighting, unto the king of Moab. But Jehoshaphat, who

was a righteous man, encouraged him, and bid him send to the

camp, and know whether any prophet of God was come along

with them, that we might by him learn from God what we

should do. And when one of the servants of Joram said, that

he had seen there Elisha, the son of Shaphat, the disciple of

