Chap. II. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 195

made Jonathan, and withal knew his courage, and what great

things he had done when he fought the Macedonians, and be­

sides what hardships he had undergone by the means of Deme­

trius, and of Bacchides, the general of Demetrius' army, he

told his friends, That " he could not at present find any one else

"that might afford him better assistance than Jonathan, who

"was both courageous against his enemies, and had a particular

"hatred against Demetrius, as having both suffered many hard

"things from him, and acted many hard things against him-.

"If therefore they were of opinion that they should make him

"their friend against Demetrius, it was more for their advan-

"tage to invite him to assist them now than at another time."

It being therefore determined by him and his friends to send to

Jonathan, he wrote to him this epistle; "King Alexander to

"his brother Jonathan, sendeth greeting: We have long ago

"heard of thy courage, and thy fidelity, and for that reason

"have sent to thee, to make with thee a league of friendship

"and mutual assistance. We therefore do ordain thee this day

-' the high priest of the Jews, and that thou beest called my  
"friend. I have also sent thee, as presents, a purple robe and

"a golden crown, and desire, that now thou art by us honoured,

"thou wilt in like manner respect us also."

3. When Jonathan had received this letter, he * put on the

pontifical robe at the time of the feast of tabernacles, four years

after the death of his brother Judas, for at that time no high

priest had been made. So he raised great forces, and had abun­

dance of armour got ready. This greatly grieved Demetrius,

when he heard of it, and made him blame himself for his slow­

ness, that he had not prevented Alexander, and got the good­

will of Jonathan, but had given him time so to do. However,

he also himself wrote a letter to Jonathan, and to the people;

the contents whereof are these: "King Demetrius to Jonathan,

"and to the nation of the Jews, sendeth greeting: Since you

"have preserved your friendship for us; and when you have

"been tempted by our enemies, you have not joined yourselves

"to them, I both commend you for this your fidelity, and ex-

"hort you to continue in the same disposition, for which you

*' shall be repaid, and receive rewards from us: for I will free

* Since Jonathan plainly did not put on the pontifical robes till seven or eight  
years after the death of his brother Judas, or not till the feast of
tabernacles in the

I60th of the Seleucidae, 1 Maccab. x. 21. Fetitus' emendation seems here to
de­

serve consideration, who, instead of after four years since the death of his
brother

Judas, would have us read, and therefore after eight years since the death of
his bro­

ther Judas. This would tolerably well agree with the death of the Maccabees,
and

with Josephus' own exact chronology at the end of the twentieth book of these
An­

tiquities, which the present text cannot be made to do.

VOL. II B 21

