114 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XL

children, were in danger of perishing: the occasion whereof we

shall declare in a little time, for it is proper, in the first place,

to explain somewhat relating to this king, and how he came to

marry a Jewish wife, who was herself of the royal family also,

and who is related to have saved our nation; for when Artax-

erxes had taken the kingdom, and had set governors over the

hundred and twenty and seven provinces, from India even unto

Ethiopia, in the third year of his reign, he made a costly feast

for his friends, and for the nations of Persia, and for their

governors, such an one as was proper for a king to make, when

he had a mind to make a public demonstration of his riches, and

this for a hundred and fourscore days; after which he made a

feast for other nations, and for their ambassadors at Shushan,

for seven days. Now this feast was ordered after the manner

following: he caused a tent to be pitched, which was supported

by pillars of gold and silver, with curtains of linen and purple

spread over them, that it might afford room for many ten thou­

sands to sit down. The cups with which the waiters ministered

were of gold, and adorned with precious stones, for pleasure, and

for sight. He also gave order to the servants that they should

- not force them to drink, by bringing them wine continually, as  
is the practice of the Persians, but to permit every one of the

guests to enjoy himself according to his own inclination.

Moreover, he sent messengers through the country, and gave or­

der that they should have a remission of their labours, and should

keep a festival many days, on account of his kingdom. In like

manner, did Vashti the queen gather her guests together, and

made them a feast in the palace. Now the king was desirous

to show her, who exceeded all other women in beauty, to those

that feasted with him, and he sent some to command her to come

to his feast. But she out of regard to the laws of the Persians,

which * forbid the wives to be seen by strangers, did not go to

the king; and though he oftentimes sent the eunuchs to her, she

did nevertheless stay away, and refused to come, till the king

was so much irritated, that he broke up the entertainment, and

* If the Cbaldee paraphrase be in the right, that Artaxerxes intended to show  
Vashti to his guests naked, it is no wonder at all that she would not submit
to such

an indignity ; but still if it were not so gross as that, yet it might, in the
king's cups,

be done in a way so indecent, as the Persian laws would not then bear, no more
than

the common laws of modesty. And that the king had some such design, seems Hot

improbable, for otherwise the principal of these royal guests could be no
strangers to

the queen, nor unapprized of h«r beauty, so far as decency admitted. However,

«ince Providence was now paving the way for the introduction of a Jewess into
the

king's affections, in order to bring about one of the most wonderful
deliverances

which the Jewish or any nation ever had, we need not be farther solicitous
about

the motives by which the king was induced to divorce V;ishti, and marry
Esther.

