Chap. VI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 115

rose up and called for those seven who had the interpretation of

the laws committed to them, and accused his wife, and said,

that he had been affronted by her, because that when she was

frequently called by him to his feast, she did not obey him once,

He therefore gave order, that they should inform him what could

be done by the law against her. So one of them, whose name

was Memucan, said, That "this affront was offered not to him

"alone, but to all the Persians, who were in danger of leading

"their lives very ill with their wives, if they must be thus des-

"pised by them; for that none of their wives would have any

"reverence for their husbands, if they had such an example of

"arrogance in the queen towards thee, who rulest over all."

Accordingly, he exhorted him to punish her, who had been

guilty of so great an affront to him, after a severe manner; and

when he had so done, to publish to the nations what had been

decreed about the queen. So the resolution was to put Vashti

away, and to give her digniiy to another woman.

2. But the king having been fond of her, did not well bear a

separation, and yet by the law he could not admit of a reconci­

liation, so he was under trouble, as not having it in his power

to do what he desired to do. But when his friends saw him so

uneasy, they advised him to cast the memory of his wife, and

his love for her, out of his mind, but to send abroad over all'

the habitable earth, and to search out for comely virgins, and to

take her whom he should like best for a wife, because his pas­

sion for his former wife would be quenched by the introduction

of another, and the kindness he had to Vashti would be with­

drawn from her, and be placed on her that was with him. Ac­

cordingly, he was persuaded to follow this advice, and gave or­

der to certain persons to choose out of the virgins that were in

his kingdom those that were esteemed the most comely. So when

a great number of these virgins were gathered together, there

was found a damsel in Babylon, both whose parents were dead,

and she was brought up with her uncle Mordecai, for that was

her uncle's name. This uncle was of the tribe of Benjamin, and

was one of the principal persons among the Jews. Now it proved

that this damsel, whose name was Esther, was the most beau­

tiful of all the rest, and that the grace of her countenance drew

the eyes of the spectators principally upon her: So she was com­

mitted to one of the eunuchs to take the care of her: and she

was very exactly provided with sweet odours, in great plenty,

and with costly ointments, such as her body required to be

anointed withal: and this was used for six months by the vir­

gins, who were in number four hundred. And when the eu­

nuch thought the virgins had been sufficiently purified, in the

forementioned time, and were now fit to go to the king's bed,

VOL. u. p 19

