Chap. XIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 241

upon the inhabitants of Gaza, and gave them leave to punish

them; so some went one way, and some went another, and slew

the inhabitants of Gaza; yet were not they of cowardly hearts;

but opposed those that came to slay them, and slew as many of

the Jews; and some of them, when they saw themselves de­

serted, burnt their own houses, that the enemy might get none

of their spoils; nay, some of them with their own hands, slew

their children and their wives, having no other way but this of

avoiding slavery for them; but the senators, who were in all

five hundred, fled to Apollo's temple (for this attack happened

to be made as they were sitting,) whom Alexander slew; and

when he had utterly overthrown their city, he returned to Je­

rusalem, having spent a year in that siege.

4c. About this very time * Antiochus, who was called Gry-

pus died. His death was caused by Heracleon's treachery, when

he had lived forty-five years, and had reigned f twenty-nine.

His son Seleucus succeeded him in his kingdom; and made war

with Antiochus, his father's brother, who was called Antiochus

Cyzicenus, and beat him, and took him prisoner, and slew him.

But after a while | Antiochus, the son of Cyzicenus, who was

called Pius, came to Aradus, and put the diadem on his own head;

and made war with Seleucus, and beat him, and drove him out

of all Syria. But when he fled out of Syria, he came to Mop-

suestia again, and levied money upon them; but the people of

Mopsuestia had indignation at what he did, and burnt down

his palace, and slew him, together with his friends. But

when Antiochus, the son of Cyzicenus, was king of Syria,

§ Antiochus the brother of Seleucus, made war upon him and

was overcome, and destroyed, he and his army. After him, his

brother Philip put on the diadem, and reigned over some part

of Syria; but Ptolemy Lathyrus sent for his fourth brother De­

metrius, who was called Eucerus from Cnidus, and made him

king of Damascus. Both these brothers did Antiochus vehe­

mently oppose, but presently died; for when he was come as an

auxiliary to Laodice, |] queen of the Gileadites, when she was

* This account of the death of Antiochus Grypus is confirmed by Appian, Syriac.  
p. 152. here cited by Spanheim.

f Porphyry says, that this Antiochui Grypus reigned but 26 years, as Dr Hudson

observes.

| The copies of Josepbus, both Greek and Latin, have here so grossly false a

reading, Antiochus and Antoninus, or Antanms Plus for Antiochus J'ius, that
the

editors are forced to correct the text from the other historians, who all
agree that this

king's name was nothing more than Antiochus Pius,

§ These two brothers, Antiochus and Philippus, are called twins by Porphyry;

the fourth brother was king of Damascus. Both which are the observations of

Spanheim.

| This Laodicea was a c'ty of Gilead beyond Jordan. However Porphyry

