578 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVI.

multitude were very desirous to see them, and they became con­

spicuous among them all, as adorned with great blessings of for­

tune, and having the countenances of persons of royal dignity.

So they soon appeared to be the objects of envy to Salome, the

king's sister, and to such as had raised calumnies against Ma-

riamne; for they were suspicious, that when these came to the

government, they should be punished for the wickedness they

had been guilty of against their mother: so they made this very

fear of theirs a motive to raise calumnies against them also.

They gave it out that they were not pleased with their father's

company, because he had put their mother to death, as if it were

not agreeable to piety to appear to converse with their mother's

murderer. Now by carrying these stories, that had indeed a

true foundation [in the fact,] but were only built on probabil­

ities; as to the present accusation, they were able to do them

mischief, and to make Herod take away that kindness from his

sons which he had before borne to them, for they did not say

these things to him openly, but scattered abroad such words

among the rest of the multitude; from which words, when car­

ried to Herod, he was induced [at last] to hate them, and which

natural affection itself, even in length of time, was not able to

overcome; yet was the king at that time in a condition to pre­

fer the natural affection of a father before all the suspicions and

calumnies his sons lay under; So he respected them as he ought

to do, and married them to wives, now they were of an age,

suitable thereto. To Aristobulus he gave for a wife Berenice,

Salome's daughter, and to Alexander, Glaphyra, the daughter

of Archelaus, king of Cappadocia.

CHAP. II.

How Herod twice sailed to Agrippa: and homo, upon the com­

plaint of the Jews in Ionia, against the Greeks, Agrippa con­

firmed the laws of the Jews to them.

§ 1. WHEN Herod had despatched these affairs, and he

understood that Marcus Agrippa had sailed again out of Italy

into Asia, he made haste to him, and besought him to come

to him into his kingdom, and to partake of what he might

justly expect from one that had been his guest, and was his

friend. This request he greatly pressed, and to it Agrippa

agreed and came into Judea; whereupon Herod omitted nothing

tliat might please him. He entertained him in his new built

cities, and showed him the edifice he had built, and provided

all sorts of the best and most costly dainties for him and his

friends, and that at Sebaste and Cscsarea, about that port that

