Chap. V. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 218

they say that some actions, but not all, are the work of fate, and

some of them are in our own power, and that they are liable to

fate, but are not caused by fate. But the sect of the Essens

affirm, that fate governs all things, and that nothing befalls men

but what is according to its determination. And for the Saddu-

cees they take away fate and say there is no such thing, and

that the events of human affairs are not at its disposal, but they

suppose that all our actions are in our own power, so that we are

ourselves the causes of what is good, and receive what is evil

from our own folly. However, I have given a more exact ac­

count of these opinions in the second book of the Jewish war.

10. But now the generals of Demetrius being willing to re­

cover the defeat they had had, gathered a greater army together

than they had before, and came against Jonathan; but as soon as

he was informed of their coming, he went suddenly to meet

them, to the country of Hamoth, for he resolved to give them

no opportunity of coming into Judea, so he pitched his camp at

fifty furlongs distant from the enemy, and sent out spies to take

a view of their camp, and after what manner they were encamp­

ed. When his spies had given him full information, and had

seized upon some of them by night, who told him the enemy

would soon attack him, he, thus apprized beforehand, provided

for his security, and placed watchmen beyond his camp, and

kept all his forces armed all night; and he gave them a charge

to be of good courage, and to have their minds prepared to fight

in the night time, if they should be obliged to do so, lest their

enemies' designs should seem concealed from them. But when

Demetrius' commanders were informed, that Jonathan knew

what they mtended, their counsels were disordered, and it alarm­

ed them to find, that the enemy had discovered those their in­

tentions, nor did they expect to overcome them any other way,

now they had failed in the snares they had laid for them; for

should they hazard an open battle, they did not think they

should be a match for Jonathan's army, so they resolved to

fly: and having lighted many fires, that when the enemy saw

them they might suppose they were there still, they retired.

But when Jonathan came to give them battle in the morning in

their camp, and found it deserted, and understood they were fled,

he pursued them, yet he could not overtake them, for they had

already passed over the river Eleutherus, and were out of danger.

So when Jonathan was returned thence, he went into Arabia,

and fought against the Nabateans, and drove away a great deal

of their prey, and took [many] captives, and came to Damascus,

and there sold of that he had taken. About the same time it

was, that Simon his brother went over all Judea and Palestine,

as far as Askelon, and fortified the strong holds; and when he

