Chap. X. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 35

lot fell upon the prophet; and when they asked him, Whence he

came? and what he had done ? he replied, That he was an He­

brew by nation, and a prophet of Almighty God; and he per­

suaded them to cast him into the sea, if they would escape the

danger they were in, for that he was the occasion of the storm

which was upon them. Now at the first they durst not do so, as

esteeming it a wicked thing to cast a man who was a stranger,

and who had committed his life to them, into such manifest per­

dition; but at last, when their misfortune overbore them, and

the ship was just going to be drowned, and when they were ani­

mated to do it by the prophet himself, and by the fear concern­

ing their own safety, they cast him into the sea; upon which

the sea became calm. It is also related that Jonah was swallowed

down by a whale, and that when he had been there three days,

and as many nights, he was vomited out upon the Euxine Sea,

and this alive, and without any hurt upon his body; and -there,

on his prayer to God, he obtained pardon for his sins, and went

to the city Nineveh, where he stood so as to be heard; and

preached, That "in a very little time they should lose the

"dominion of Asia." And when he had published this, he

returned. Now, I have given the account about him, as I

found it written [in our books].

3. When Jeroboam the king had passed his life in great happi­

ness, and had ruled forty years, he died and was buried in Sa­

maria, and his son Zechariah took the kingdom. After the same

manner did Uzziah, the son of Amaziah, begin to reign over

the two tribes in Jerusalem, in the fourteenth year of the reign

of Jeroboam. He was born of Jecoliah, his mother, who was a

citizen of Jerusalem. He was a good man, and by nature right­

eous and magnanimous, and very laborious in taking care of

the affairs of his kingdom. He made an expedition also against

the Philistines, and overcame them in battle, and took the cities

of Gath and Jabneh, and brake down their walls: after which

expedition, he assaulted those Arabs that adjoined to Egypt.

He also built a city upon the Red Sea, and put a garrison into

it. He after this overthrew the Ammonites, and appointed that

they should pay tribute. He also overcame all the countries as

far as to the bounds of Egypt, and then began to take care of

Jerusalem itself for the rest of his life, for he rebuilt and re­

paired all those parts of the wall which had either fallen down

the Israelites, but among these heathen mariners, seems a remarkable remains
of

the ancient tradition which prevailed of old over all mankind, that providence
used

to interpose visibly in all human affairs, and never to bring, or at least not
long to

continue, notorious judgments but for notorious sins, which the most ancient
book

of Job shows to have been the state of mankind for about the former 3000 years
of

the world, till the days of Job and Moses.

VOL. II. E 15

