154 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XII.

"and a portion of land for their husbandry, and for the planta-

"tion of their vines; and thou shalt discharge them from pay-

"ing taxes of the fruits of the earth for ten years: and let them

"have a proper quantity of wheat for the maintenance of their

"servants, until they receive bread corn out of the earth: also

"let a sufficient share be given to such as minister to them in

"the necessaries of life, that by enjoying the effects of our hu-

"manity, they may show themselves the more willing and

"ready about our affairs. Take care likewise of that nation,

"as far as thou art able, that they may not have any disturb-

"ance given them by any one." Now these testimonials which

I have produced, are sufficient to declare the friendship that

Antiochus the Great bare to the Jews.

CHAP. IV.

How Antiochus made a league "with Ptolemy; and how Onias pro­

voked Ptolemy Euergetes to anger; and how Joseph brought all

things right again, and entered into friendship -with him,- and

what other things were done by Joseph and his son Hyrcanus.

§ 1. AFTER this Antiochus made a friendship and a league

with Ptolemy; and gave him his daughter Cleopatra to wife,

and yielded up to him Celcesyria, and Samaria, and Judea,

and Phenicia, by way of dowry. And upon the division of

the taxes between the two kings, all the principal men farmed

the taxes of their several countries, and collecting the sum that

was settled for them, paid the same to the [two] kings. Now

at this time the Samaritans were in a flourishing condition, and

much distressed the Jews, cutting off parts of their land, and

carrying off slaves. This happened when Onias was high

priest; for after Eleazar's death, his uncle Manasseh took the

priesthood, and after he had ended his life, Onias received that

dignity. He was the son of Simon, who was called the Just,

which Simon was the brother of Eleazar, as I said before. This'

Onias was one of a little soul, and a great lover of money; and

for that reason, because he did not pay the tax of twenty ta­

lents of silver, which his forefathers paid to these kings, out

of their own estates, he provoked king Ptolemy Euergetes to

anger, who was the father of Philopater. Euergetes sent an am­

bassador to Jerusalem, and complained that Onias did not pay

his taxes, and threatened, that if he did not receive them, he

would seize upon their land, and send soldiers to live upon it.

When the Jews heard this message of the king's, they were con­

founded: But so sordidly covetous was Onias, that nothing of

this nature made him ashamed.

