Chap. III. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 385

had administered the government, and had not neglected any

thing which was for their advantage; and as he was very joyful,

he now remitted to them the fourth part of their taxes for the

last year. Accordingly, they were so pleased with his favour

and speech to them, that they went their ways with great glad­

ness, and wished the king all manner of happiness.

CHAP. III.

How great disturbances arose in Herod's family on his preferring

Antipater, his eldest son, before the rest, till Alexander took

that injury very heinously.

§ 1. JJUT now the affairs in Herod's family were m more

disorder, and became more severe upon him, by the hatred

of Salome to the young men [Alexander and Aristobulus,]

which descended as it were by inheritance [from their mother

Mariamne:] And as she had fully succeeded against their

mother, so she proceeded to that degree of madness and inso­

lence as to endeavour that none of her posterity might be left

alive, who might have it in their power to revenge her death.

The young men had also somewhat of a bold and uneasy disposi­

tion towards their father, occasioned by the remembrance of

what their mother had unjustly suffered, and by their own affec­

tation of dominion. The old grudge was also renewed; and they

cast reproaches on Salome and Pheroras, who requited the

young men with malicious designs, and actually laid treacherous

snares for them. Now, as for this hatred it was equal on both

sides, but the manner of exerting that hatred was different: for

as for the young men they were rash, reproaching and affront­

ing the others openly, and were unexperienced enough to think

it the most generous to declare their minds in that undaunted

manner: but the others did not take that method, but made use

of calumnies after a subtle and a spiteful manner, still provok­

ing the young men, and imagining that their boldness might in

time turn to the offering violence to their father; for inasmuch

as they were not ashamed of the pretended crimes of their mother,

nor thought she suffered justly, these supposed that it might al

length exceed all bounds, and induce them to think they ought

to be -ivenged on their father, though it were by despatching

him with their own hands. At length it came to this, that the

whole city was full of their discourses, and, as is usual in such

contests, the unskilfulness of the young men was pitied, but the

contrivance of Salome was too hard for them, and what impu­

tations she laid upon them came to be believed, by means of

their own conduct: for they who were so deeply affected with

