280 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIV.

"Hyrcanus and his sons, which they paid to their forefathers.

"And that no one, neither president, nor lieutenant, nor ambas-

"sador, raise auxiliaries within the bounds ofJudea, nor my

"soldiers exact money of them for winter quarters, or under

"any other pretence, but that they be free from all sorts of

"injuries: and that whatsoever they shall hereafter have, and

"are in possession of, or have bought, they shall retain them all.

"It is also our pleasure, that the city Joppa, which the Jews

"had originally, when they made a league of friendship with

"the Romans, shall belong to them, as it formerly did, and that

"Hyrcanus, the son of Alexander, and his sons have as tribute

"of that city from those that occupy the land for the country,

"and for what they export every year to Sidon, twenty thou-

"sand, six hundred, and seventy-five modii every year, the se-

"venth year, which they call the Sabbatic year, excepted, where-

"on they neither plough nor receive the product of their trees.

"It is also the pleasure of the senate, lhat as to the villages

"which are in the great plain, which Hyrcanus and his forefa-

"thers formerly possessed, Hyrcanus and the Jews have them

"with the same privileges with which they formerly had them

"also, and that the same original ordinances remain still in force,

"which concern the Jews, with regard to their high priests;

"and that they enjoy the same benefits which they have had

"formerly by the concession of the people, and of the senate;

"and let them enjoy the like privileges in Lydda. It is the plea-

"sure also of the senate, that Hyrcanus the ethnarch, and the

"Jews, retain those places, countries and villages, which be-

"longed to the kings of Syria and Phenicia, the confederates of

"the Romans, and which they had bestowed on them as their

"free gifts. It is also granted to Hyrcanus, and to his sons,

"and to the ambassadors by them sent to us, that in the fights

"between single gladiators, and in those with beasts, they shall

"sit among the senators to see those shows, and that when they

"desire an audience, they shall be introduced into the senate by

"the dictator, or by the general of the horse; and when they

"have introduced them, their answers shall be returned them

"in ten days at the farthest, after the decree of the senate is

"made about their affairs."

7. "Caius Caesar, imperator, dictator the fourth time, and

"consul the fifth time, declared to be perpetual dictator, made

"this speech concerning the rights and privileges of Hyrcanus

"the son of Alexander, the high priest and ethnarch of the

"Jews. Since those * imperators that have been in the provinces

* Dr. Hudson justly supposes, that the Roman imperators, or generals of ar­  
mies, meant both here, and sect. 2. who gave testimony to Hyrcanus' and the
Jews'

faithfulness and good-will to the Romans before the senate and people of Rome,

