ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. BookXIII.

Now there were some of her friends who persuaded her to seize

Alexander, and to overrun and take possession of the country,

and not to sit still and see such a multitude of brave Jews sub­

ject to one man. But Ananias' counsel was contrary to theirs,

who said, that, "she would do an unjust action, if she deprived

"a man that was her ally, of that authority which belonged to

"him, and this a man who is related to us; for, said he, I- would

"not have thee ignorant of this, that what injustice thou dost

"to him, will make all us that are Jews to be thy enemies."

This desire of Ananias' Cleopatra complied with, and did no

injury to Alexander, but made a league of mutual assistance

with him, at Scythopolis, a city of Celesyria.

3. So when Alexander was delivered from the fear he was in

of Ptolemy, he presently made an expedition against Celesyria.

He also took Gadara, after a siege often months. He took also

Amathus, a very strong fortress belonging to the inhabitants

above Jordan, where Theodorus, the son of Zeno, had his chief

treasure, and what he esteemed most precious. This Zeno fell

unexpectedly upon the Jews, and slew ten thousand of them, and

seized upon Alexander's baggage: Yet did not this misfortune

terrify Alexander, but he made an expedition upon the maritime

parts of the country, Raphia and Anthedon, (the name of which

king Herod afterwards changed to Agrippias,) and took even that

by force, but when Alexander saw that Ptolemy was retired

from Gaza to Cyprus, and his mother Cleopatra was returned to

Egypt, he grew angry at the people of Gaza, because they had

invited Ptolemy to assist them, and besieged their city and ra­

vaged their country. But as Apollodotus, the general of the

army of Gaza, fell upon the camp of the Jews by night, with

two thousand foreign, and ten thousand of his own forces, while

the night lasted, those of Gaza prevailed, because the enemy was

made to believe that it was Ptolemy who attacked them: but

when day was come on, and that mistake was corrected, and the

Jews knew the truth of the matter, they came back again and

fell upon those of Gaza, and slew of them about a thousand; but

as those of Gaza stoutly'resisted them, and would not yield for ci­

ther their want of any thing, nor for the great multitude that were

slain, for they would rather suffer any hardship whatever than

come under the power of their enemies, Aretus, king of the

Arabians, a person then very illustrious, encouraged them to go

on with alacrity, and promised them that he would come to their

assistance; but it happened, that before he came, Apollodotus

was slain, for his brother Lysimachus envying him for the great

reputation he had gained among the citizens, slew him, and got

the army together, and delivered up the city to Alexander, who,

when he came in at first, lay quiet, and afterward set his army

