180 ANTIQUITIES Ol THE JKWS. Book XII.

"the temple of Diana in Persia;" for the * purposing to do a

thing, but not actually doing it, is not worthy of punishment.

But if Polybius could think, that Antiochus thus lost his life

on that account, it is much more probable that this king died

on account of his sacrilegious plundering of the temple at Jeru­

salem. But we will not contend about this matter with those

who may think, that the cause assigned by this Polybius of

Megalopolis is nearer the truth than that assigned by us.

2. However, Antiochus, before he died, called tor Philip,

who was one of his companions, and made him the guardian of

his kingdom; and gave him his diadem, and his garment, and

his ring, and charged him to carry them, and deliver them to

his son Antiochus; and desired him to take care of his educa­

tion, and to preserve the kingdom for him. f This Antiochus

died in the hundred forty and ninth year: But it was Lysias

that declared his death to the multitude, and appointed his son

Antiochus to be king, (of whom at present he had the care,)

and called him Eupator.

3. At this time it was that the garrison in the citadel at Jeru­

salem, with the Jewish runagates, did a great deal of harm to the

Jews: for the soldiers that were in that garrison rushed out upon

the sudden, and destroyed such as were going up to the temple

in order to offer their sacrifices, for this citadel adjoined to, and

overlooked the temple. When these misfortunes had often hap­

pened to them, Judas resolved to destroy that garrison; where­

upon he got all the people together, and vigorously besieged

those that were in the citadel. This was in the hundred and

fiftieth year of the dominion of the Seleucidae. So he made en­

gines of war, and erected bulwarks, and very zealously pressed

on to take the citadel: But there were not a few of the runa­

gates who were in the place, that went out by night into the

country, and got together some other wicked men like them­

selves, and went to Antiochus the king, and desired of him,

That "he would not suffer them to be neglected, under the

"great hardships that lay upon them from those of their own

* Since St. Paul, a Pharisee, confesses, that he had not known concvpitcence. 01  
tesircs, to be sinful, had not the tenth commandment said, Thou shalt not
covet;

Rom. vii. 7. the case seems to have been much the same with our Josephus, who

was of the same sect; that he had not a deep sense of the greatness of any
sins that

proceeded no farther than the intention. However, since Joaepbus speaks here
pro­

perly uf the punishment of death, which is Dot inflicted by any law either of
God or

man for the bare intention, his words need not to be strained to mean, that
sins in­

tended, but not executed, were no sins at all.

')' No wonder that Josephus here describes Antiochus Eupator as young, and

wanting tuition, when he came to the crown, since Appian informs us, Syriae,
p.

177, that he was then but nine years old.

