6 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book IX,

traffic cities of Thrace; but he failed of his gains, for the ships

were destroyed by being so great [and unwieldy]; on which

account he was no longer concerned about shipping. And this

is the history of Jehoshaphat the king of Jerusalem.

CHAP. II.

Concerning Ahaziah, the king of Israel, and again concerning

the prophet Elijah.

§ 1. AND now Ahaziah, the son of Ahab, reigned over Is­

rael, and made his abode in Samaria. He was a wicked man,

and, in all respects, like to both his parents, and to Jeroboam,

who first of all transgressed, and began to deceive the people.

On the second year of his reign, the king of Moab fell off from

his obedience, and left off paying those tributes which he be­

fore paid to his father Ahab. Now it happened that Ahaziah,

as he was coming down from the top of his house, fell down

from it, and in his sickness sent to the * Fly, which was the

god of Ekron, for that was this god's name, to inquire about his

recovery: But the God of the Hebrews appeared to Elijah the

prophet, and commanded him to go and meet the messengers

that were sent, and to ask them, "Whether the people of

"Israel had not a God of their own, that the king sent to a

"foreign god to inquire about his recovery? and to bid them

"return and tell the king, that he would not escape this disease."

And when Elijah had performed what God had commanded him,

and the messengers had heard what he said, they returned to the

king immediately: and when the king wondered how they could

return so soon, and asked them the reason of it, they said, that a

"certain man met them, and forbade them to go on any farther;

"but to return and tell thee, from the command of the God of

"Israel, that this disease will have a bad end." And when the

king bid them describe the man that said this to them, they re­

plied, "that he was a hairy man, and was girt about with a girdle

"of leather." So the king understood by this that the man who

was described by the messengers was Elijah; whereupon he sent

a captain to him, with fifty soldiers, and commanded them to

bring Elijah to him; and when the captain that was sent found

Elijah sitting upon the top of a hill, he commanded him to come

down, and to come to the king, for so had he enjoined, but that

in case he refused, they would carry him by force. Elijah said

to him, " That you may have a trial whether I be a true pro-

* This god of Jlies seems to have been so called, as was the like god among the  
Greeks; from his supposed power over Hies in driving them away from the fiebh
of

their sacrifices, which otherwise would have beer very troublesome to them.

