Chap. X. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 367

but by rational methods aimed to mitigate things, as not wil­

ling to give any handle for tumults.

3. Now when Herod had already reigned seventeen years, Cae­

sar came into Syria; at which time the greatest part of the in­

habitants of Gadara clamoured against Herod, as one that was

heavy in his injunctions, and tyrannical. These reproaches

they mainly ventured upon by the encouragement of Zenodorus,

who took his oath that he would never leave Herod till he had

procured that they should be severed from Herod's kingdom, and

joined to Caesar's province. The Gadarens were induced hereby,

and made no small cry against him, and that the more boldly,

because those that had been delivered up by Agrippa were not

punished by Herod, who let them go, and did them no harm, for

indeed he was the principal man in the world who appeared al­

most inexorable in punishing crimes in his own family, but very

generous in remitting the offences that were committed else­

where. And while they accused Herod of injuries, and plun-

derings, and subversions of temples, he stood unconcerned, and

was ready to make his defence. However, Caesar gave him his

right-hand, and remitted nothing of his kindness to him, upon

this disturbance by the multitude; and indeed these things were

alleged the first day, but the hearing proceeded no farther; for

as the Gadarens saw the inclination of Caesar and of his asses­

sors, and expected, as they had reason to do, that they should be

delivered up to the king, some of them, out of a dread of the

torments they might undergo, cut their own throats in the night

time, and some of them threw themselves down precipices, and

others of them cast themselves into the river, and destroyed

themselves of their own accord; which accidents seemed a suffi­

cient condemnation of the rashness and crimes they had been

guilty of: whereupon Caesar made no longer delay, but cleared He­

rod from the crimes he was accused of. Another happy accident

there was, which was a farther great advantage to Herod at this

time; for Zenodorus' belly burst, and a great quantity of blood

issued from him in his sickness, and he thereby departed this life

at Antioch in Syria; so Caesar bestowed his country, which was

no small one, upon Herod; it lay between Trachon and Galilee,

and contained Ulatha, and Paneas, and the country round about.

He also made him one of the procurators of Syria, and com­

manded that they should do every thing with his approbation:

and, in short, he arrived at that pitch of felicity, that whereas

there were but two men that governed the vast Roman empire,

first Caesar, and then Agrippa, who was his principal favourite;

Caesar preferred no one to Herod besides Agrippa, and Agrippa

made no one his greater friend than Herod besides Caesar. And

when he had acquired such freedom, he begged of Caesar a te-

