402 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVI.

cause of her love to her husband, and because Glaphyra seemed

to behave herself somewhat insolently towards Salome's daugh­

ter, who was the wife of Aristobulus, which equality of hers

to herself Glaphyra took very impatiently.

3. Now, besides this second contention that had fallen among

them, neither did the king's brother Pheroras keep himself out

af trouble, but had a particular foundation for suspicion and ha­

tred; for he was overcome with the charms of his wife to such

a degree of madness, that he despised the king's daughter, to

whom he had been betrothed, and wholly bent his mind to the

other, who had been but a servant. Herod also was grieved by

the dishonour that was done him, because he had bestowed many

favours upon him, and had advanced him to that height of power

that he was almost a partner with him in the kingdom, and saw

that he had not made him a due return for his favours, and esteem­

ed himself unhappy on that account. So upon Pheroras' un-

woithy refusal, he gave the damsel to Phasaelus' son: but after

some time, when he thought the heat of his brother's affections

was over, he blamed him for his former conduct, and desired

him to take his second daughter, whose name was Cypros. Pto­

lemy also advised him to leave off affronting his brother, and to

forsake her whom he had loved, for that it was a base thing to

be so enamoured of a servant, as to deprive himself of the king's

good-will to him, and become an occasion of his trouble, and make

himself hated by him. Pheroras knew that this advice would

be for his own advantage, particularly because he had been ac­

cused before, and forgiven; so he put his wife away, although he

already had a son by her, and engaged to the king that he would

take his second daughter, and agreed that the thirtieth day after

should be the day of marriage; and swore he would have no

farther conversation with her whom he had put away; but when

the thirty days were over, he was such a slave to his affections,

that he no longer performed any thing he had promised, but con­

tinued still with his former wife. This occasioned Herod to

grieve openly, and made him angry, while the king dropped one

word or other against Pheroras perpetually; and many made the

king's anger an opportunity for raising calumnies against him.

Nor had the king any longer a single quiet day or hour, but oc-

easions of one fresh quarrel or another arose among his relations,

and those that were dearest to him; for Salome was of a harsh

temper, and ill-natured to Mariamne's sons; nor would she suffer

her own daughter, who was the wife of Aristobulus, one of

those young men, to bear a good-will to her husband, but per­

suaded her to tell her if he said any thing to her in private,

and when any misunderstandings happened, as is common, she

raised a great many suspicions out of it; by which means she

