192 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIII.

out of them, and do mischief to the Jews. He also fortified

the citadel at Jerusalem more than all the rest. Moreover he

took the sons of the principal Jews as pledges, and shut them

up in the citadel, and in that manner guarded it.

4. About the same time one came to Jonathan, and to his

brother Simon, and told them that the sons of Ambri were

celebrating a marriage, and bringing the bride from the city

Gabatha, who was the daughter of one of the illustrious men

among the Arabians, and that the damsel was to be conducted

with pomp and splendour, and much riches: So Jonathan and

Simon thinking this appeared to be the fittest time for them to

avenge the death of their brother, and that they had forces suf­

ficient for receiving satisfaction from them for his death, they

made haste to Medaba, and lay in wait among the mountains for

the coming of their enemies; and as soon as they saw them con­

ducting the virgin, and her bridegroom, and such a great com­

pany of their friends with them, as was to be expected at this

wedding, they sallied out of their ambush, and slew them all;

and took their ornaments, and all the prey that then followed

them, and so returned, and received this satisfaction for their

brother John from the sons of Ambri; for as well those sons

themselves, as their friends, and wives, and children, that fol­

lowed them, perished, being in number about four hundred.

5. However, Simon and Jonathan returned to the lakes of

the river, and abode there. But Bacchides, when he had secur­

ed all Judea with his garrisons, returned to the king: and then

it was that the affairs of Judea were quiet for two years. But

when the deserters and the wicked saw that Jonathan and those

that were with him lived in the country very quietly, by rea­

son of the peace, they sent to king Demetrius, and excited him

to send Bacchides to seize upon Jonathan, which they said was

to be done without any trouble, and in one night's time; and

that if they fell upon them before they were aware, they might

slay them all. So the king sent Bacchides, who, when he was

come into Judea, wrote to all his friends, both Jews and aux­

iliaries, that they should seize upon Jonathan, and bring him to

him; and, when, upon all their endeavours, they were not able

to seize upon Jonathan, for he was sensible of the snares they laid

for him, and very carefully guarded against them, Bacchides was

angry at these deserters, as having imposed upon him, and

upon the king, and slew fifty of their leaders. Whereupon Jona­

than, with his brother, and those that were with them, retired

to Bethagla, a village that lay in the wilderness, out of his fear

of Bacchides. He also built towers on it, and encompassed it

with walls, and took care that it should be safely guarded. Upon

the hearing of which, Bacchidw ^ed his own army along with

