Chap. VII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 25

and of the royal family, she endeavoured that none of the

house of David might be left alive, but that the whole family

might be exterminated, that no king might arise out of it after­

ward; and, as she thought, she had actually done it; but one of

Ahaziah's sons was preserved, who escaped death after the man­

ner following: Ahaziah had a sister by the same father, whose

name was Jehosheba, and she was married to the high priest Je-

hoiada. She went into the king's palace, and found Jehoash, for

that was the little child's name, who was not above a year old,

among those that were slain, but concealed with his nurse; so

she took him with her into a secret bed-chamber, and shut him

up there, and she and her husband Jehoiada brought him up

privately in the temple six years, during which time Athaliah

reigned over Jerusalem and the two tribes.

2. Now on the seventh year, Jehoiada communicated the

matter to certain of the captains of hundreds, five in number,

and persuaded them to be assisting to what attempts he was

making against Athaliah, and to join with him in asserting the

kingdom to the child. He also received such oaths from them as

are proper to secure those that assist one another from the fear

of discovery; and he was then of good hope that they should

depose Athaliah. Now those men whom Jehoiada the priest had

taken to be his partners, went into all the country, and gathered

together the priests and the Levites, and the heads of the tribes

out of it, and came and brought them to Jerusalem to the high

priest. So he demanded the security of an oath of them, to keep

private whatsoever he should discover to them, which required

both their silence and their assistance. So when they had taken

the oath, and had thereby made it safe for him to speak, he pro­

duced the child that he had brought up of the family of David,

and said to them, "This is your king, of that house which you

"know God hath foretold should reign over you for all time to

"come: I exhort you therefore that one third part of you

"guard him in the temple, and that a fourth part keep watch

"at all the gates of the temple, and that the next part of you

"keep guard at the gate which opens and leads to the king's

"palace, and let the rest of the multitude be unarmed in the

"temple, and let no armed person go into the temple, but the

"priest only. He also gave them this order besides, that a

'' part of the priests and the Levites should be about the king

"himself, and be a guard to him, with their drawn swords,

"and to kill that man immediately, whoever he be, that should

"be so bold as to enter armed into the temple; and bid them

"be afraid of nobody, but persevere in guarding the king."

So these men obeyed what the high priest advised them to, and

declared the reality of their resolution by their actions. Jehoiada

