Chap. X. ANTIQUITIES Of THE JEWS. 185

with greater security, he spake kind words to them all, and dis­

coursed to each of them after an agreeable and pleasant manner,

by which means he quickly had a great body of men and an

army about him, although the greater part of them were of the

wicked, and the deserters. With these, whom he used as his

servants and soldiers, he went all over the country, and slew all

that he could find of Judas' party. But when Judas saw that

Alcimus was already become great, and had destroyed many of

the good and holy men of the country, he also went all over the

country, and destroyed those that were of the other's party.

But when Alcimus saw that he was not able to oppose Judas,

nor was equal to him in strength, he resolved to apply himself

to king Demetrius for his assistance; so he came to Antioch, and

irritated him against Judas, and accused him, alleging that he

had undergone a great many miseries by his means, and that he

would do more mischief unless he were prevented, and brought

to punishment, which must be done by sending a powerful force

against him.

4. So Demetrius, being already of opinion that it would be a

thing pernicious to his own affairs to overlook Judas, now he

was becoming so great, sent against him Nicanor, the most kind

and most faithful of all his friends; for he it was who fled away

with him from the city of Rome. He also gave him as many

forces as he thought sufficient for him to conquer Judas withal,

and bid him not to spare the nation at all. When Nicanor was

come to Jerusalem, he did not resolve to fight Judas immediately,

but judged it better to get him into his power by treachery; so

he sent him a message of peace, and said, "there was no manner

"of necessity for them to fight and hazard themselves; and that

"he would give him his oath that he would do him no harm;

"for that he only came with some friends, in order to let him

"know what king Demetrius' intentions were, and what opin-

"ion he had of their nation." When Nicanor had. delivered

this message, Judas and his brethren complied with him, and sus­

pecting no deceit, they gave him assurances of friendship, and re­

ceived Nicanor and his army ; but while he was saluting Judas,

and they were talking together; he gave a certain signal to his own

soldiers, upon which they were to seize upon Judas; but he per­

ceived the treachery, and ran back to his own soldiers, and fled

away with them. So upon this discovery of his purpose, and

of the snares laid for Judas, Nicanor determined to make open

war -with him, and gathered his army together, and prepared for

fighting him; and upon joining battle with him at a certain vil­

lage called Capharsalama, he * beat Judas and forced him to fly

to that citadel which was at Jerusalem.

* Joscphus' copies must hav« b««n corrupted when they her* give victory to Ni­  

