Chap. X. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 281

"before me have borne witness to Hyrcanus, the high priest

"of the Jews, and to the Jews themselves, and this before the

"senate and people of Rome, when the people and senate re-

"turned their thanks to them, it is good that we now also re-

"member the same, and provide that a requital be made to

"Hyrcanus, to the nation of the Jews, and to the sons of Hyr-

"canus, by the senate and people of Rome, and that suitably

"to what good-will they have shown us, and to the benefits

"they have bestowed upon us."

8. "Julius Caius, pretor [consul] of Rome, to the magistrates,

"senate, and people of the Parians, sendeth greeting. The Jews

"of Delos, and some other Jews that sojourn there, in the pre-

"sence of your ambassadors, signified to us, that by a decree of

"yours, you forbid them to make use of the customs of their

"forefathers, and their way of sacred worship. Now it does

"not please me, that such decrees should be made against our

"friends and confederates, whereby they are forbidden to live

"according to their own customs, or to bring in contributions,

"for common suppers, and holy festivals, while they are not

"forbidden so to do even at Rome itself; for even Caius Caesar,

"our imperator, and consul, in thatdecree wherein he forbade the

"Bacchanal rioters to meet in the city, did yet permit these

"Jews, and these only, both to bring in their contributions,

"and to make their common suppers. Accordingly, when I

"forbid other Bacchanal rioters, I permit these Jews to gather

"themselves together, according to the customs and laws of

"their forefathers, and to persist therein. It will be therefore

"good for you, that if you have made any decree against

"these our friends and confederates, to abrogate the same, by

"reason of their virtue, and kind disposition towards us."

9. Now after Caius was slain, when Marcus Antonius, and

Publius Dolabella, were consuls, they both assembled the senate

and introduced Hyrcanus' ambassadors into it, and discoursed

of what they desired, and made a league of friendship with

them. The senate also decreed, to grant them all they desired.

I add the decree itself, that those who read the present work,

may have ready by them a demonstration of the truth of what

we say: the decree was this:

10. "The decree of the senate, copied out of the treasury,

"from the public tables belonging to the questors, when Quin-

"tus Rutilius and Caius Cornelius were questors, and taken

"out of the second table of the first class, on the third day

"before the ides of April, in the temple of Concord. There

"ere principally, Pompey Scaurus, and Gabinius; of all whom Joseplius had
already

given us the history so far as the Jews were concerned with them.

