174 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XII.

ed down into that army, which they left in their camp, and saw

that it was overthrown; and the camp burnt; for the smoke that

arose from it showed them, even when they were a great way

off, what had happened. When therefore those that were with

Gorgias understood that things were in this posture, and per­

ceived that those that were with Judas were ready to fight them,

they also were affrighted, and put to flight; but then Judas, as

though he had already beaten Gorgias' soldiers without fighting,

returned and seized on the spoils. He took a great quantity of

gold and silver, and purple, and blue, and then returned home

with joy, and singing hymns to God for their good success; for

this victory greatly contributed to the recovery of their liberty.

5. Hereupon Lysias was confounded at the defeat of the ar­

my which he had sent, and the next year he got together sixty

thousand chosen men. He also took five thousand horsemen,

and fell upon Judea; and he went up to the hill country of Beth-

sur, a village of Judea, and pitched his camp there, where Judas

met him with ten thousand men; and when he saw the great

number of his enemies, he prayed to God, that he would assist

him, and joined battle with the first of the enemy that appeared,

and beat them, and slew about five thousand of them, and

thereby became terrible to the rest of them. Nay, indeed, Lysias

observing the great spirit of the Jews, how they were prepared

to die rather than lose their liberty, and being afraid of their

desperate way of fighting, as if it were real strength, he took

the rest of the army back with him, and returned to Antioch,

where he listed foreigners into the service, and prepared to fall

upon Judea with a greater army.

6. When therefore the generals of Antiochus' armies had

been beaten so often, Judas assembled the people together, and

told them, That " after these many victories, which God had

"given them, they ought to go up to Jerusalem, and purify the

"temple, and offer the appointed sacrifices." But as soon as he,

with the whole multitude, was come to Jerusalem, and found

the temple deserted, and its gates burnt down, and plants grow­

ing in the temple of their own accord, on account of its deser­

tion, he and those that were with him began to lament, and

were quite confounded at the sight of the temple; so he chose

out some of his soldiers and gave them order to fight against

those guards that were in the citadel, until he should have puri­

fied the temple. When therefore he had carefully purged it,

and had brought in new vessels, the candlestick, the table [of

shew-bread], and the altar [of incense], which were made of

gold, he hung up the vails at the gates, and added doors to them.

He also took down the altar [of burnt-offering], and built a new

one of stones that he gathered together, and not of such as were

