Chap. XIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. SOI

eight hundred in number, there being in the place a sufficient

quantity of corn and water, and other necessaries, and went di­

rectly for Petra, in Arabia. But when it was day, the Parthians

plundered all Jerusalem, and the palace, and abstained from

nothing but Hyrcanus' money, which was three hundred ta­

lents. A great deal of Herod's money escaped, and principally

all that the man had been so provident as to send into Idumea

beforehand: nor indeed did what was in the city suffice the

Parthians, but they went out into the country, and plundered

it, and demolished the city Marissa.

10. And thus was Antigonus brought back into Judea, by

the king ot the Parthians, and received Hyrcanus and Phasaelus

for his prisoners; but he was greatly cast down because the

women had escaped, whom he intended to have given the ene­

my, as having promised they should have them, with the money,

for their reward: But being afraid that Hyrcanus, who was

under the guard of the Parthians, might have his kingdom re­

stored to him by the multitude, he cut off his ears, and thereby

took care that the high priesthood should never come to him any

more, because he was maimed, while the * law required that this

dignity should belong to none but such as had all their members

entire. But now one cannot but here admire the fortitude of

Phasaelus, who, perceiving that he was to be put to death, did

not think death any terrible thing at all, but to die thus by the

means of his enemy, this he thought a most pitiable and dishon­

ourable thing, and therefore, since he had not his hands at li­

berty, but the bonds he was in prevented him from killing

himself thereby, he dashed his head against a great stone, and

thereby took away his own life, which he thought to be the

best thing he could do in such a distress as he was in, and there­

by put it out of the power of the enemy to bring him to any death

he pleased. It is also reported, that when he had made a great

wound in his head, Antigonus sent physicians to cure it, and by

ordering them to infuse poison into the wound, killed him-

However, Phasaelus hearing, before he was quite dead, by a cer­

tain woman, that his brother Herod had escaped the enemy,

underwent his death cheerfully, since he now left behind him

one who would revenge his death, and who was able to inflict

mmishment on his enemies.

* This law of Moses, that the priests were to be without blemish, as to all the  
parls of iheir bodies, is in Levit. xxi. 17—24.

