Chap. IV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

occasion' of this tumult? and when they perceived that it-was from

the Jews, who had been carried captive to .Babylon, and were re­

building their temple, they came to Zorobabel and to Jeshua, and

to the heads of the families, and desired that they would give

them leave to build the temple with them, and to be partners

with -them in building it; for they said, "We worship your God,

"and especially pray to him, and are desirous of your religious

"settlement, and this ever since Shalmaneser, the king of Assy-

"ria, transplanted us out of Cuthah and Media to this place."

When they said thus, Zorobabel and Jeshua the high priest, and

the heads of the families of. the Israelites, replied to them, that

"it was impossible for .them to permit them to be their partners,

"while they [only] had been appointed to build that temple at

"first by Cyrus, and now by Darius, although it was indeed

"lawful for them to come ahd worship there -if they pleased,

"and that they could allow them nothing but that in common

"with them, which was common to-them with all other men,

"to .come to their temple and worship God there."

4. WThen the Cutheans heard this, for the Samaritans have

.that appellation, •they had indignation at it, and persuaded the

.nations of Syria to desire of the governors, in the same manner

as they had done formerly in the days of Cyrus, and again in the

days of Cambyses afterwards, to put a stop to the building ot

.the temple, and to endeavour to delay and protract the Jews iu

their zeal about it. Now at this time Sisinues, the governer QI

.Syria and Phenicia, and Sathrabuzanes, with certain others,

jcame up to Jerusalem, and asked the .rulers of the Jews, "By

." whose grant it was that they built the temple in this manner.,

." since it was more like to a citadel than a temple? and for what

;" reason it was that they built cloisters and walls, and those

"strong ones too, about the city?" To which Zorobabel and

Jeshua the high priest replied, "that they- were -the servants ot

"God Almighty: that this temple -was .built for him .by >» Jung

"of theirs, that lived in great prosperity, and one that exceeded

"all men hi virtue, and that it continued a long.time, but that

"because of their father's impiety towards God, Nebuchadnez-

- " zar, king of the Babylonians, and of the Chaldeans, .took their  
"city by force, and destroyed it and pillaged the temple^ and

"burnt U down, and transplanted the people whom he had

." made -captives, and removed them to Babylon: that Cyrus,

:" who aftejr him was king of Babylonia- and Persia, wrote to

"them to build the temple, and committed the gifts and ves-

"sels, and whatsoever Nebuchadnezzar had carried out of it,

"to Zorobabel and Mithridates the treasurer; and gave order

"to have them carried to Jerusalem, and to have them restored

." to their own temple, when it was. built; for he had sent to

