406 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVI.

CHAP. VIII.

Herod took vp Alexander, and bound him: tehom yet Ar-

chelaus, king of Cappadocia, reconciled to his father, Herod,

again.

§ 1. I>UT still the affairs of Herod's family were no better,

but perpetually more troublesome. Now this accident happened,

which arose from no decent occasion, but proceeded so far

as to bring great difficulties upon him. There were certain eu­

nuchs which the king had, and on account of their beauty was

very fond of them; and the care of bringing him drink was en­

trusted to one of them, of bringing him his supper to another,

and of putting him to bed to the third, who almost managed the

principal affairs of the government; and there was one told the

king that these eunuchs were corrupted by Alexander the king's

son, with great sums of money: And when they were asked,

whether Alexander had had criminal conversation with them?

they confessed it, but said they knew of no farther mischief of

his against his father, but when they were more severely tor­

tured, and were in the utmost extremity, and the tormentors,

out of compliance with Antipater, stretched the rack to the very

utmost, they said, that Alexander bare great ill-will and in­

nate hatred to his father : and that he told them, that Herod de­

spaired to live much longer; and that in order to cover his great

age, he coloured his hair black, and endeavoured to conceal what

would discover how old he was; but that if he would apply

himself to him, when he should attain the kingdom, which, in

spite of his father, could come to no one else, he should quickly

have the first place in that kingdom under him, for that he was

now ready to take the kingdom, not only as his birthright, but

by the preparations he had made for obtaining it, because a great

many of the rulers, and a great many of his friends, were of his

side, and those no ill men neither, ready both to do and to suffer

whatsoever should come on that account.

2. When Herod heard this confession, he was all over anger

and fear, some parts seeming to him reproachful, and some made

him suspicious of dangers that attended him, insomuch that on

both accounts he was provoked, and bitterly afraid lest some

more heavy plot was laid against him than he should be then

able to escape from; whereupon he did not now make an open

search, but sent about spies to watch such as he suspected, for he

was now overrun with suspicion and hatred against all about

him; and indulging abundance of those suspicions, in order to his

preservation, he continued to suspect those that were guiltless;

