48 ANTIQUITIES OF THB JEWS. Book X.

they might speak with him: but he did not himself come out to

them for fear, but he sent three of his most intimate friends, the

name of one was Eliakim, who was over the kingdom, and Sheb-

na, and Joah the recorder. So these men came out, and stood

over against the commanders of the Assyrian army; and when

Rabshakeh saw them, he bid them go and speak to Hezekiah in

the manner following: That " Sennacherib the * great king, de-

"sires to know of him, on whom it is that he relies and depends

"in flying from his lord, and will not hear him, nor admit his

"army into the city? Is it on account of the Egyptians, and in

"hopes that his army would be beaten by them? Whereupon

"he lets him know, that if this be what he expects, he is a tbol-

"ish man, and like one who leans on a broken reed, while such

"a one will not only fall down, but will have his hand pier-

"ced and hurt by it. That he ought to know, he makes this

"expedition against him by the will of God, who hath granted

"this favour to him, that he shall overthrow the kingdom o

"Israel, and that in the very same manner he shall destroy

*' those that are his subjects also." When Rabshakeh had made  
this speech in the Hebrew tongue, for he was skilful in that

language, Eliakim was afraid lest the multitude that heard

him should be disturbed, so he desired him to speak in the Sy­

rian tongue; but the general understanding what he meant, and

perceiving the fear that he was in, he made his answer with a

greater, and a louder voice, but in the Hebrew tongue; and

said, that " since they all heard what were the king's commands,

"they would consult their own advantage in delivering up

"themselves to us, for it is plain that both you and your king

"dissuade the people from submitting by vain hopes, and so in

"duce them to resist: but if you be courageous, and think to

"drive our forces away, I am ready to deliver to you two

"thousand of these horses that are with me for your use, if

"you can set as many horsemen on their backs, and show your

"strength, but what you have not, you cannot produce. Why

"therefore do you delay to deliver up yourselves to a superior

"force, who can take you without your consent? although it will

"be safer for you to deliver yourselves up voluntarily, while a

"forcible capture, when you are beaten, must appear more dan-

"gerous, and will bring farther calamities upon you."

3. When the people, as well as the ambassadors, heard what

the Assyrian commander said, they related it to Hezekiah, who

thereupon put off his royal apparel, and clothed himself with sack­

cloth and took the habit of a mourner; and, after the manner of

This title of Great King, both in our Bibles, 2 Kings x\iii. 19. Isa. xxxvi.

here in Joscphus, is the very:

Spanheim takes notice on this place.

and here in Josephus, is the very same that Herodotus gives tliis Sennacherib
*i

