264 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIV.

considerable actions: and particularly made war with Alexander,

since Hyrcanus was not yet able to oppose his power, but was

already attempting to build the walls of Jerusalem, which

Pompey had overthrown, although the Romans, which were

there, restrained him from that his design. However, Alexan­

der went over all the country round about, and armed many

of the Jews, and suddenly got together ten thousand armed

footmen, and fifteen hundred horsemen, and fortified Alexan-

drium, a fortress near to Corae and Macherus, near the moun­

tains of Arabia. Gabinius therefore came upon him, having

'sent Marcus Antonius, with other commanders before. These

armed such Romans as followed them; and, together with them,

such Jews as were subject to them, whose leaders were Pitho-

laus and Malichus, and they took with them also their friends

that were with Antipater, and met Alexander, while Gabinius

himself followed with his legion. Hereupon Alexander retired

to Jerusalem, where they fell upon one another, and it came to

a pitched battle, in which the Romans slew of their enemies

about three thousand, and took a like number alive.

3. At which time Gabinius came to Alexandrium, and in­

vited those- that were in it to deliver it up on certain conditions,

and promised that then their former offences should be forgiven:

But as a great number of the enemy had pitched their camp

before the fortress, whom the Romans attacked. Marcus An­

tonius fought bravely, and slew a great number, and seemed to

come off with the greatest honour. So Gabinius left part of

his army there, in order to take the place, and he himself went

into other parts of Judea, and gave order to rebuild all the

cities that he met with that had been demolished; at which time

were rebuilt Samaria, Ashdod, Scythopolis, Anthedon, Raphia,

and Dora; Marissa also, and Gaza, and not a few others be­

sides. And as the men acted according to Gabinus' com­

mand, it came to pass, that at this time these cities were secure­

ly inhabited, which had been desolate for a long time.

4. When Gabinius had done thus in the country, he return­

ed to Alexandrium ; and when he urged on the siege of the place,

Alexander sent an embassage to him, desiring that he would par­

don his former offences ; he also delivered up the fortresses, Hyr-

cania, and Macherus; and at last Alexandrium itself, which for­

tresses Gabinius demolished. But when Alexander's mother,

who was of the side of the Romans, as having her husband and

other children at Rome, came to him, he granted her whatsoever

she asked; and when he had settled matters with her he brought

Hyrcanus to Jerusalem, and committed the care of the temple

to him: And when he had ordained five councils, he distributed

the same nation into the same number of parts: So these coun­

