Chap. IV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS 155

2. There was now one Joseph, young in age, but of great re­

putation among the people of Jerusalem, for gravity, prudence,

and justice. His father's name was Tobias; and his mother was

the sister of Onias the high priest, who informed him of the

coming of the ambassador: for he was then sojourning at a vil­

lage named * Phicol, where he was bom. Hereupon he came

to the city [Jerusalem], and reproved Onias for not taking care

of the preservation of his countrymen, but bringing the nation

into dangers, by not paying this money. For which preserva­

tion of them, he told him he had received the authority over

them, and had been made high priest: But that, in case he was

so great a lover of money, as to endure to see his country in

danger on that account, and his countrymen suffer the greatest

damages, he advised him to go to the king, and petition him to

remit either the whole, or part of the sum demanded. Onias'

answer was this, that he did not care for his authority, and that

he was ready, if the thing were practicable, to lay down his

high priesthood; and that he would not go to the king, because

he troubled not himself at all about such matters. Joseph then

asked him, If he would not give him leave to go ambassador on

behalf of the nation? He replied, that he would give him leave-

Upon which Joseph went up into the temple; and called the mul­

titude together, to a congregation, and exhorted them not to be

disturbed nor affrighted, because of his uncle Onias' careless­

ness, but desired them to be at rest, and not terrify themselves

with fear about it; for he promised them that he would be their

ambassador to the king, and persuade him that they had done

him no wrong. And when the multitude heard this, they re­

turned thanks to Joseph. So he went down from the temple,

and treated Ptolemy's ambassador in a hospitable manner.

He also presented him with rich gifts; and feasted him magni­

ficently for many days, and then sent him to the king before

him, and told him that he would soon follow him: for he was

now more willing to go to the king, by the encouragement of

the ambassador, who earnestly persuaded him to come into

Egypt; and promised him that he would take care that he

should obtain every thing that he desired of Ptolemy, for he

was highly pleased with his frank and liberal temper, and with

the gravity of his deportment.

3. When Ptolemy's ambassador was come into Egypt, he told

the king of the thoughtless temper of Onias; and informed him

of the goodness of the disposition of Joseph; and that he was

* The name of this place, Phicol, is the very same with that of the chief captain  
of Abimelech's host, in the days of Abraham, Gen. xxi. 22. and might possibly
be

the place of that Fhicol's nativity or abode, for it seems to have been in the
south

part of Palestine, as ihnt was.

vou iI. u 19

