Chap. III. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 1*9

that when, in a certain dramatic representation, he was desirous

to make mention of things that were contained in the sacred

books, he was afflicted with a darkness in his eyes; and that

upon his being conscious of the occasion of his distemper, and

appeasing God [by prayer], he was freed from that affliction.

14. And when the king had received these books from De­

metrius, as we have said already, he adored them, and gave

order that great care should be taken of them, that they might

remain uncorrupted. He also desired that the interpreters would

come often to him out of Judea, and that both on account of the

respects that he would pay them, and on account of the presents

he would make them: For he said, "It was now but just to

"send them away, although if of their own accord, they would

"come to him hereafter, they should obtain all that their own

"wisdom might justly require, and what his generosity was

"able to give them." So he then sent them away; and gave

to every one of them three garments of the best sort, and two ta­

lents of gold, and a cup of the value of one talent, and the fur­

niture of the room wherein they were feasted. And these were

the things he presented to them. But by them he sent to Elea-

zar the high priest, ten beds, with feet of silver, and the fur­

niture to them belonging, and a cup of the value of thirty ta­

lents; and besides these, ten garments, and purple, and a very

beautiful crown, and a hundred pieces of the finest woven

linen; as also vials and dishes, and vessels for pouring, and two

golden cisterns to be dedicated to God. He also desired him, by

an epistle, that he would give these interpreters leave, if any

of them were desirous of coming to him, because he highly

valued a conversation with men of such learning; and should be

very willing to lay out his wealth upon such men. And this

was what came to the Jews, and was much to their glory and

honour, from Ptolemy Philadelphus.

CHAP. III.

How the kings of Asia honoured the nation of the Jews, and made

them citizens of those cities which they built.

§ 1. 1 HE Jews also obtained honour from the kings of Asia,

when they became their auxiliaries; for Seleucus Nicator

made them citizens in those cities which he built in Asia; and

in the lower Syria, and in the metropolis itself, Antioch; and

gave them privileges equal to those of the Macedonians and

Greeks, who were the inhabitants, insomuch that these privi­

leges continue to this very day: An argument for which you

