Chap. XI . ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 373

Jeep valley; and at the south side he laid rocks together, and

bound them one to another with lead, and included some of the

inner parts, till it proceeded to a great height, and till both the

largeness of the square edifice, and its altitude, were immense,

and till the vastness of the stones in the front were plainly visi足

ble on the outside, yet so that the inward parts were fastened to足

gether with iron, and preserved the joints immoveable for all

future times. When this work [for the foundation] was done

in this manner, and joined together as part of the hill itself to

the very top of it, he wrought it all into one outward surface,

and filled up the hollow places which were about the wall, and

made it a level on the external upper surface, and a smooth level

also. This hill was walled all round, and in compass four

furlongs, [the distance of] each angle containing in length a fur足

long: but within this wall, and on the very top of all, there ran

another wall of stone also, having, on the east quarter, a double

cloister, of the same length with the wall; in the midst of which

was the temple itself. This cloister looked to the gates of the

temple; and it had been adorned by many kings in former times:

And round about the entire temple were fixed the spoils taken

from barbarous nations; all these had been dedicated to the

temple by Herod, with the addition of those he had taken from

the Arabians.

4. Now on the north side [of the temple] was built a citadel,

whose walls were square, and strong, and of extraordinary

firmness. This citadel was built by the kings of the Asamo-

nean race, who were also high priests before Herod, and they

called it the Tower, in which were reposited the vestments of

the high priest, which the high priest only put on at the time

when he was to offer sacrifice. These vestments king Herod

kept in that place, and after his death they were under the

power of the Romans, until the time of Tiberius Caesar; under

whose reign Vitellius, the president of Syria, when he once

Came to Jerusalem, and had been most magnificently received by

the multitude, he had a mind to make them some requital for

the kindness they had showed him, so, upon their petition to

have those holy vestments in their own power, he wrote about

them to Tiberius Caesar, who granted his request; and this their

power over the sacerdotal vestments continued with the Jews

till the death of king Agrippa; but after that, Cassius Longi-

nus, who was president of Syria, and Cuspius Fadus, who was

procurator of Judea, enjoined the Jews to reposit those vest足

ments in the Tower of Antonia, for that they ought to have them

in their power, as they formerly had. However, the Jews sent

ambassadors to Claudius Caesar, to intercede with him for them,.

upon whose coming, king Agrippa, jun. being then at Romer

