252 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEVTS. Book XIV.

BOOK XIV.

CONTAINING THE INTERVAL OF THIRTY-TWO YEARS.

FROM THE DEATH OF QUEEN ALEXANDRA TO THE DEATH

OF ANTIGONUS.

CHAP. I.

The war between Aristobulus and Hyrcanus about the kingdom;

and how they made an agreement, that Aristobulus should be

king, and Hyrcanus live a private life: as also how Hyrcan­

us, a little afterward, was persuaded by Antipater to Jly to

Aretas.

'i O J

§ 1. WE have related the affairs of Queen Alexandra, and

her death in the foregoing book, and will now speak of what

followed, and was connected with those histories; declaring,

before we proceed, that we have nothing so much at heart as

this, they we may * omit no facts, either through ignorance or

laziness, for we are upon the history and explication of such

things as the greatest part are unacquainted withal, because of

their distance from our times; and we aim to do it with a

proper beauty of style, so far as that is derived from proper

words harmonically disposed, and from such ornaments of

speech also as may contribute to the pleasure of our readers,

that we may entertain the knowledge of what we write with

some agreeable satisfaction and pleasure. But the principal

scope that authors ought to aim at above all the rest, is to speak

accurately, and to speak truly, for the satisfaction of those that

are otherwise unacquainted with such transactions, and obliged

to believe what these writers inform them of.

2. Hyrcanus then began his high priesthood on the third year

of the hundred seventy-seventh olympiad, when Quintius Horten-

sius and Quintus Metellus, who was called Metellus of Crete,

were consuls at Rome; when presently Aristobulus began to

make war against him, and as it came to a battle with Hyrcan-

tis at Jericho, many of the soldiers deserted him, and went over

to his brother; upon which Hyrcanus fled into the citadel, where

Aristobulus' wife and children were imprisoned by their mo­

ther, as we have said already, and attacked and overcame those

* Reland takes notice here, very justly, how Joseplms' declaration, that it was  
his great concern not only to write an agreeable, an accurate, and a true
history, but

also distinctly not to omit any thing [of consequence,] either through
ignorance or

laziness, implies that he could not, consistently with that resolution, omit
the mention

of [so famous a person as] Jesvs Christ,

