Chap. XIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 41

However, these four went along with them, and conducted them

as far as Jericho, which is not far from Jerusalem, and return­

ed to Samaria.

3. Hereupon king Ahaz having been so thoroughly beaten by

the Israelites, sent to Tiglath-Pileser, king of the Assyrians,

and sued for assistance from him in his war against the Israel­

ites, and Syrians, and Damascenes, with a promise to send him

much money; he sent him also great presents at the same time.

Now this king, upon the reception of those ambassadors, came

to «ssist Ahaz, and made war upon the Syrians, and laid their

country waste, and took Damascus by force, and slew Rezin

their king, and transplanted the people of Damascus into the

upper Media, and brought a colony of Assyrians, and planted

them in Damascus. He also afflicted the land of Israel, and

took many captives out of it. While he was doing thus with

the Syrians, king Ahaz took all the gold that was in the king's

treasures, and the silver, and what was in the temple of God,

and what precious gifts were there, and he carried them with

him, and came to Damascus, and gave it to the king of Assy­

ria, according to his agreement. So he confessed that he owed

him thanks for all they had done for him, and returned to Jeru­

salem. Now this king was so sottish, and thoughtless of what

was for his own good, that he would not leave off worshipping

the Syrian gods when he was beaten by them, but he went on

in worshipping them, as though they would procure him the

victory: and when he was beaten again he began to honour

the gods of the Assyrians; and he seemed more desirous to

honour any other gods than his own paternal and true God,

whose anger was the cause of his defeat; nay, he proceeded to

such a degree of despite and contempt [of God's worship],

that he shut up the temple entirely, and forbade them to bring

in their appointed sacrifices, and took away the gifts that had

been given to it. And when he -had offered these indignities

to God, he died, having lived thirty-six years, and of them

reigned sixteen; and he left his son Hezekiah for his successor.

CHAP. XIII.

HowPeJcah died by the treachery of Hoshea, who was a little af-

ter subdued by Shalmaneser: And how Hezekiah reigned in­

stead of Ahaz ; and what actions of piety and justice he did.

J 1. ABOUT the same tune, Pekah, the king of Israel, died,

by the treachery of a friend of his, whose name was Hoshea,

who retained the kingdom nine years time, but was a wicked

