Chap. X. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWg. 285

20. "The magistrates of the Laodiceans to Caius Rubilius,

"the son of Caius, the consul, sendeth greeting: Sopater the

"ambassador of Hyrcanus, the high priest, hath delivered us an

"epistle from thee, whereby he lets us know, that certain am-

"bassadors were come from Hyrcanus, the high priest of the

"Jews, and brought an epistle written concerning their nation,

"wherein they desire that the Jews may be allowed to observe

"their Sabbaths, and other sacred rites, according to the laws

"of their forefathers, and that they may be under no command,

"because they are our friends and confederates, and that no-

"body may injure them in our provinces. Now although the

"Trallians there present contradicted them, and were not

"pleased with these decrees, yet didst thou give order that they

"should be observed, and informedst us that thou hadst been

"desired to write this to us about them. We therefore, in obe-

"dience to the injunctions we have received from thee, have

"received the epistle which thou sentest us, and have laid it

"up by itself among our public records. And as to the other

"things about which thou didst send to us, we will take care

"that no complaint be made against us."

21. "Publius Servillius, the son of Publius, of the Galban

"tribe, the proconsul to the magistrates' senate, and people of

"the Milesians, sendeth greeting: Prytanes the son of Hermes,

"a citizen of yours, came to me when I was at Tralles, ano!

"held a court there, and informed me that you used the Jews

"in a way different from my opinion, and forbade them to ce-

"lebrate their Sabbaths, and to perform the sacred rites re-

"ceived from their forefathers, and to manage the fruits of the

"land, according to their ancient custom, and that he had him-

"self been the promulger of your decree, according as your

"laws require: I would therefore have you know, that upon

"hearing the pleadings on both sides, I gave sentence that the

"Jews should not be prohibited to make use of their own cus-

"toms."

22. The decree of those of Pergamus. When Cratippus was

prytanis, on the first day of the month Desius, the decree of the

pretors was this: "Since the Romans, following the conduct of

"their ancestors, undertake dangers for the common safety of

"all mankind, and are ambitious to settle their confederates and

"friends in happiness, and in firm peace; and since the nation

"of the Jews, and their high priest Hyrcanus, sent as ambas-

"sadors to them, Strato, the son of Theodatus, and Apollonius,

"the son of Alexander, and Eneas, die son of Antipater, and

"Aristobulus, the son of Amyntus, and Sosipater, the son of

"Philip, worthy and good men, who gave a particular account

"of their affairs, the senate thereupon made a decree about what

