Chap. XI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 423

reproaches, he cried out most of all, and exaggerated what they

said, as if they had confessed thc design against him, and took

his oath that he had rather lose his life than hear such reproach­

ful words. At last he said, That "he had sufficient authority

"both by nature, and by Cajsar's grant to him, [to do what he

"thought fit.] He also added an allegation of a law of their

"country which enjoined this. That if parents laid their hands

"on the head of him that was accused, the standers by were obli-

"ged to cast stones at him, and thereby toslay him, which though

"he was ready to do in his own country and kingdom, yet did

"he wait for their determination: that yet they came thither

"not so much as judges, to condemn them for such manifest

"designs against him, whereby he had almost perished by his

"sons' means, but as persons that had an opportunity of showing

"their detestation of such practices, and declaring how unworthy

"a thing it must be in any, even the most remote, to pass

"such treacherous designs [without punishment."]

3. When the king had said this, and the young men had not

been produced to make any defence for themselves, the assessors

perceived there was no room for equity and reconciliation, so

they confirmed his authority. And in the first place, Saturni-

nus, a person that had been consul, and one of great dignity,

pronounced his sentence, but with great moderation and trou­

ble; and said, "That he condemned Herod's sons, but did not

"think they should be put to death. He had sons of his own,

"and to put one's son to death, is a greater misfortune than

"any other that could befall him by their means." After him

Saturninus' sons, for he had three sons that followed him, and

were his legates, pronounced the same sentence with their fa­

ther : on the contrary, Volumnius' sentence was to inflict death

on such as had been so impiously undutiful to their father; and

the greatest part of the rest said the same, insomuch that the

conclusion seemed to be, that the young men were condemned to

die. Immediately after this Herod came away from thence, and

took his sons to Tyre, where Nicolaus met him in his voyage

from Rome: of whom he inquired, after he had related to him

what had passed at Berytus, what his sentiments were about his

sons, and what his friends at Rome thought of that matter?

His answer was, "That what they had determined to do to thee

"was impious, and that thou oughtest to keep them in prison;

"and if thou thinkest any thing farther necessary, thou mayest

"indeed so punish them, that thou mayest not appear to indulge

"thy anger more than to govern thyself by judgment; but it

"thou inclinest to the milder side, thou mayest absolve them,

"lest perhaps thy misfortunes be rendered incurable: and this

"is the opinion of the greatest part of thy friends at Rome

