Chap. II. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 143

figure, every angle had the same disposition of its sculptures, that

when you turned them about, the very same form of them

was turned about without any variation. Now that part of

the crown-work that was inclosed under the table had its

sculptures very beautiful, but that part which went round on

the outside was naore elaborately adorned with most beautiful

ornaments, because it was exposed to sight, and to the view of

the spectators; for which reason it was that both those sides

which were extant above the rest, were acute; and none of the

angles, which we before told you were three, appeared less than

another, when the table was turned about. Now into the cord-

work thus turned were precious stones inserted in rows parallel

one to the other, inclosed in golden buttons, which had ouches

in them; but the parts which were on the side of the crown, and

were exposed to the sight, were adorned with a row of oval

figures obliquely placed, of the most excellent sort of precious

stones, which imitated rods laid close; and encompassed the table

round about. But under these oval figures, thus engraven, the

workmen had put a crown all round it, where the nature of all

sorts of fruit was represented, insomuch that the bunches of

grapes hung up. And when they had made the stones to re­

present all the kinds of fruit before mentioned, and that each in

its proper colour, they made them fast with gold round the whole

table. The like disposition of the oval figures, and of theengraved

rods, was framed under the crown, that the table might on each

side show the same appearance of variety, and elegancy of its

ornaments, so that neither the position of the wave-work nor of

the crown, might be different, although the table were turned on

the other side, but that the prospect of the most artificial contri­

vances might be extended as far as the feet; for there was made

a plate of gold of four fingers broad, through the entire breadth

of the table, into which they inserted the feet, and then fastened

them to the table by buttons, and button-holes, at the place

where the crown was situate, that so on what side soever of the

table one should stand, it might exhibit the very same view of

the exquisite workmanship, and of the vast expenses bestowed

upon it: but upon the table itself they engraved a meander, in­

serting into it very valuable stones in the middle, like stars of va­

rious colours: the carbuncle and the emerald, each of which sent

out agreeable rays of light to the spectators; with such stones of

other sorts also as were most curious, and best esteemed, as

being most precious in their kind. Hard by this meander a

texture of net-work ran round it, the middle of which appeared

like a rhombus, into which were inserted rock chrystal, and am­

ber, which, by the great resemblance of the appearance they

made, gave wonderful delight to those that saw them. The

