Chap. XIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 239

these people after this manner, as I have already related.

Ptolemy also took Ptolemais by force, as we have declared

elsewhere.

CHAP. XIII.

How Alexander, upon the league of mutual defence 'which Cleo­

patra had agreed with him, made an expedition against Cele-

syria, and utterly overthrew the city of Gaza ,' and how he slew

many ten thousands of Jews that rebelled against him: Also

concerning Antiochus Grypus, Seleucus, Antiochus Cyzicenus,

and Antiochus Pius, and others.

§ 1. W HEN Cleopatra saw that her son was grown great,

and laid Judea waste without disturbance, and had gotten the

eity of Gaza under his power, she resolved no longer to

overlook what he did, when he was almost at her gates; and

she concluded, that now he was so much stronger than before,

he would be very desirous of the dominion over the Egyptians;

but she immediately marched against him with a fleet at sea,

and an army of foot on land, and made Chelsias and Ananias the

Jews, generals of her whole army, while she sent the greatest

part of her riches, her grand-children, and her testament, to the

people of * Cos. Cleopatra also ordered her son Alexander to

sail with a great fleet to Phenicia: and when that country had

revolted, she came to Ptolemais; and because the people of Pto­

lemais did not receive her, she besieged the city; but Ptolemy

went out of Syria, and made haste into Egypt, supposing that

he should find it destitute of an army and soon take it, though

he failed of his hopes. At this time Chelcias, one of Cleopatra's

generals, happened to die in Celesyria, as he was in pursuit

of Ptolemy.

2. When Cleopatra heard of her son's attempt, and that his

Egyptian expedition did not succeed according to his expecta­

tions, she sent thither part of her army, and drove him out of

that country, so when he was returried out of Egypt again,

he abode during the winter at Gaza, in which time Cleopatra

took the garrison that was in Ptolemais by siege, as well as the

city; and when Alexander came to her, he gave her presents,

and such marks of respect as were but proper, since under the

miseries he endured by Ptolemy, he had no other refuge but her.

* The city, or island Cos, is not that remote island in the Egean Sea, famous  
for the birth of the great Hippocrates, but a city or island of the same name,

adjoining to Kgypt, mentioned both by Stephanus and Ptolemy, as Dr. Hudson

informs us. Of which Cos, and the treasures there laid up by Cleopatra and the

Jews, see Antiq. B. XIV. ch. vii. § 2.

