160 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XII.

to the king also. The son was irritated at this, and threw Arion

into prison. But when Arion's wife had informed Cleopatra

of this, with her entreaty, that she would rebuke the child for

what he had done, (for Arion was in great esteem with her)

Cleopatra informed the king of it. And Ptolemy sent for Hyr-

canus, and told him, that " he wondered when he was sent to

"him by his father, that he had not yet come into his presence,

"but had laid the steward in prison." And he gave order,

therefore, that he should come to him, and give an account of

the reason of what he had done. And they report, that the an­

swer he made to the king's messenger was this: that " there was

"a law of his that forbade a child that was born, to taste of the

"sacrifice, before he had been at the temple and sacrificed to God.

"According to which way of reasoning he did not himself come

"to him in expectation of the present he was to make to him,

"as to one who had been his father's benefactor: and that he

"had punished the slave for disobeying his commands, for that

"it mattered not whether a master was little or great; so that

"unless we punish such as these, thou thyself mayest also ex-

"pect to be despised by thy subjects." Upon hearing this his

answer he fell a laughing, and wondered at the great soul of the

child.

9. When Arion was apprized that this was the king's dispo­

sition, and that he had no way to help himself, he gave the child

a thousand talents, and was let out of prison. So after three

days were over, Hyrcanus came and saluted the king and queen.

They saw him with pleasure, and feasted him in an obliging

manner, out of the respect they bare to his father. So he came

to the merchants privately, and bought a hundred boys, that

had learning, and were in the flower of their ages, each at a talent

apiece; as also he bought a hundred maidens, each at the

same price as the other. And when he was invited to feast with

the king among the principal men in the country, he sat down

the lowest of them all, because he was little regarded, as a child

in age still; and this by those who placed every one according to

their dignity. Now when all those that sat with him had laid

the bones of the several parts on a heap- before Hyrcanus, (for

they had themselves taken away the flesh belonging to them,)

till the table where he sat was filled full with them; Trypho,

who was the king's jester, and wasappointed for jokes and laughter

at festivals, who was now asked by the guests that sat at the table

[to expose him to laughter]. So he stood by the king, and said,

"Dost thou not see, my Lord, the bones that lie by Hyrcanus?

"by this similitude thou mayest conjecture that his father made

"all Syria as bare as he hath made these bones." - And the king

laughing at what Trypho said, and asking of Hyrcanus, "How

