300 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book. XIV.

be of good cheer, and not to give themselves up to sorrow, be­

cause that would hinder them in their flight, which was now

the only hope of safety that they had. Accordingly, they tried

to bear with patience the calamity they were under, as he ex­

horted them to do; yet was he once almost going to kill himself,

upon the overthrow of a waggon, and the danger his mother was

then in of being killed, and this on two accounts, because of his

great concern for her, and because he was afraid lest, by this de­

lay, the enemy should overtake him in the pursuit; but as he

was drawing his sword, and going to kill himself therewith, those

that were present restrained him, and being so many in num­

ber, were too hard for him: and told him that he ought not to

desert them, and leave them a prey to their enemies, for that it

was not the part of a brave man to free himself from the dis­

tresses he was in, and to overlook his friends that were in the

same distresses also. So he was compelled to let that horrid at­

tempt alone, partly out of shame at what they said to him, and

partly out of regard to the great number of those that would not

permit him to do what he intended. So he encouraged his mo­

ther, and took all the care of her the time would allow, and pro­

ceeded on the way he proposed to go with the utmost haste, and

that was to the fortress of Massada. And as he had many skir­

mishes with such of the Parthians as attacked him, and pur­

sued him, he was conqueror in them all.

9. Nor indeed was he free from the Jews all along as he was

in his flight; for by the time he had gotten sixty furlongs out

of the city, and was upon the road, they fell upon him, and

fought hand to hand with him, whom he also put to flight,

and overcame, not like one that was in distress and in ne­

cessity, but like one that was excellently prepared for war,

and had what he wanted in great plenty. And in this very

place where he overcame the Jews, it was that he sometime af­

terward built a most excellent palace, and a city round about it,

and called it Herodium. And when he was come to Idumea,

at a place called Thressa, his brother Joseph met him, and he

then held a council to take advice about all his affairs, and what

was fit to be done in his circumstances, since he had a great

multitude that followed him, besides his mercenary soldiers, and

the place Massada, whither he proposed to fly, was too small to

contain so great a multitude; so he sent away the greater part

of his company, being above nine thousand, and bid them go

some one way, and some another, and to save themselves in

Idumea, and gave them what would buy them provisions in

their journey; but he took with him those that were the least

incumbered, and were most intimate with him, and came to the

fortress, and placed there his wives, and his followers, being

