13* ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XII.

BOOK XII.

CONTAINING THE INTERVAL OF A HUNDRED AND SEVENTY

YEARS.

[FROM THE DEATH OF ALEXANDER THE GREAT, TO THE

DEATH OF JUDAS MACCABEES.]

CHAP. I.

How Ptolemy, the son of Lagus, took Jerusalem and Judea by

deceit and treachery, and carried many of the Jews thence,

and planted them in Egypt.

§ 1. -Now when Alexander, king of Macedon, had put an

end to the dominion of the Persians, and had settled the affairs

in Judea after the forementioned manner, he ended his life.

And as his government fell among many, Antigonus obtained

Asia; Seleucus, Babylon; and of the other nations which were

there, Lysimachus governed the Hellespont, and Cassander pos­

sessed Macedonia; as did Ptolemy, the son of Lagus, seize upon

Egypt. And while these princes ambitiously strove one against

another, every one for his own principality, it came to pass that

there were continual wars, and those lasting wars too; and the

cities were sufferers, and lost a great many of their inhabi­

tants in these times of distress, insomuch that all Syria, by the

means of Ptolemy, the son of Lagus, underwent the reverse of

that denomination of Saviour, which he then had. He also

seized upon Jerusalem, and for that end made use of deceit and

treachery: for as he came into the city on a Sabbath-day, as if

he would offer sacrifices, he without any trouble, gained the

city while the Jews did not oppose him, for they did not sus­

pect him to be their enemy; and he gained it thus, because

they were free from suspicion of him, and because on that day

they were at rest and quietness; and when he had gained it, he

ruled over it in a cruel manner. Nay, Agatharchides of Cni-

dus, who wrote the acts of Alexander's successors, reproaches

us with superstition, as if we, by it, had lost our liberty; where

he says thus; " There is a nation called the nation of the Jews,

"who inhabit a city strong and great, named Jerusalem.

"These men took no care, but let it come into the hands of

"Ptolemy, as not willing to take arms, and thereby they sub-

"mitted to be under a hard master, by reason of their vmsea­

