Chap. IV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 891

"desire to reign; and to say farther, that this evil proceeds from

"the case of our unhappy mother. This is abundantly sufficient

"to produce our misfortune out of the former; but consider

"well, whether such an accusation does not suit all such young

"men, and may not be said of them all promiscuously? for

"nothing can hinder him that reigns, if he have children, and

"their mother be dead, but the father may have a suspicion upon

"all his sons, as intending some treachery to him: but a sus-

"picion is not sufficient to prove such an impious practice. Now

"let any man say, whether we have actually and insolently at-

"tempted any such thing, whereby actions otherwise incredible,

"use to be made credible. Can any body prove that poison

"hath been prepared? or prove a conspiracy of our equals, or

"the corruption of servants, or letters .written against thee?

"though indeed there are none of those things but have some-

"times been pretended by way of calumny, when they were

"never done; for a royal family that is at variance with itself

"is a terrible thing; and that which thou callest a reward of

"piety, often becomes, among very wicked men, such a founda-

"tion of hope, as makes them leave no sort of mischief untried:

"Nor does any one lay any wicked practices to our charge;

"but to calumnies by hearsay, how can he put an end to them,

"who will not hear what we have to say? Have we talked

"with too great freedom? yes; but not against thee, for that

"would be unjust, but against those that never conceal any thing

"that is spoken to them. Hath either of us lamented our mother?

"yes; but not because she is dead, but because she was evil

"spoken of by those who had no reason so to do. Are we

"desirous of that dominion which we know our father is pos.-

"sessed of? For what reason can we be so? If we already

"have royal honours, as we have, should not we labour in vain?

"And if we have them not, yet, are not we in hopes of them'

"Or, supposing that we had killed thee, could we expect to ob-

"tain thy kingdom? while neither the earth would let us tread

"upon it, nor the sea let us sail upon it, after such an action as

"that: nay, the religion of all your subjects, and the piety of

"the whole nation, would have prohibited parricides from as-

"suming the government, and from * entering into that most

* Since some prejudiced men have- indulged a wild suspicion, as we have sup­  
posed already, Antiq. B. XV. ch. xi. seet. 7. that Josephus" history of
Herod's

rebuilding the temple is no better than a fable, it may not be amiss to take

notice of the occasional clause in the speed) of Alexander before his father
Herod,

in his and his brother's vindication, which mentions the temple as known by
every

body to have been built by Herod. See John ii. 20. See also another speech

of Herod's own to the young men that pulled down his golden eagle from the

front of the temple, where he takes notice, " How the building of the temple
cost

