Chap. XIV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 45

sessed themselves of this country, but eight hundred years after

Joshua had been their leader, and, as I have already observed,

two hundred and forty years, seven months, and seven days, af­

ter they had revolted from Rehoboam, the grandson of David,

and had given the kingdom to Jeroboam, And such a conclu­

sion overtook the Israelites, when they had transgressed the laws,

»nd would not hearken to the prophets, who foretold that

this calamity would come upon them, if they would not leave

off their evil doings. What gave birth to these evil doings,

was that sedition which they raised against Rehoboam the grand­

son of David, when they set up Jeroboam his servant to be their

king, who, by sinning against God, and bringing them to imitate

his bad example, made God to be their enemy, while Jeroboam

underwent that punishment which he justly deserved.

2. And now the king of Assyria invaded all Syria and Pheni-

cia in a hostile manner. The name of this king is also set down

in the archives of Tyre, for he made an expedition against Tyre,

in the reign of Eluleus; and Menander attests to it, who, when

he wrote his Chronology, and translated the archives of Tyre in­

to the Greek language, gives us the following history: "One

"whose name was Eluleus, reigned thirty-six "years: this king

"upon the revolt of the Citteans, sailed to them, and reduc-

"ed them again to a submission. Against these did the king

"of Assyria send an army, and in a hostile manner overrun

"all Phenicia, but soon made peace with them all, and return-

"ed back: but Sidon and Ace, and Palaetyrus, revolted; and

"many other cities there were which delivered themselves up

"to the king of Assyria. Accordingly, when the Tyrians would

"not submit to him, the king returned, and fell upon them

"again, while the Phenicians had furnished him with threescore

"ships, and eight hundred men to row them; and when the Ty<-

"rians had come upon them in twelve ships, and the enemies

"ships were dispersed, they took five hundred men prisoners,

"and the reputation of all the citizens of Tyre was thereby in-

"creased: but the king of Assyria returned, and placed guards

"at their river and aqueducts, who should hinder the Tyrians

"from drawing water. This continued for five years, and still

* the Tyrians bore the siege, and drank of the water they had  
"out of the wells they dug." And this is what is written

in the Tyrian archives concerning Shalmaneser, the king of

Assyria.

3. But now the Cutheans who removed into Samaria (for that

is the name they have been called by to this time, because they

were brought out of the country called Cuthath, which is a coun­

try of Persia, and there is a river of the same name in it), each

of them, according to their nations, which were in number five,

