Chap. X. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 187

and had been built by the holy prophets, * he was smitten sud*

denly by God, and fell dqwn. This stroke made him fall down

speechless upon the ground: and undergoing torments for many

days, he at length died, when he had been high priest four years.

And when he was dead, the people bestowed the high priesthood

on Judas; who hearing of the power f of the Romans, and that

they had conquered in war Galatia, and Iberia, and Carthage,

and Lybia; and that, besides these, they had subdued Greece,

and their kings, Perseus, and Philip, and Antiochus the Great

also, he resolved to eater into a league of friendship with them.

He therefore sent to Rome some of his friends, Eupolemus the

son of John, and Jason the son of Eleazar, and by them desired

the Romans that they would assist them, and be their friends,

and would write to Demetrius that he would not fight against

the Jews. So the senate received the ambassadors that came from

Judas to Rome, and discoursed with them about the errand on

which they came, and then granted them a league of assistance.

They also made a decree concerning it, and sent a copy of it into

Judea. It was also laid up in the capitol, and engraven in

brass. The decree itself was this: "The decree of the senate

"concerning a league of assistance and friendship with the na>-

"tion of the Jews. It shall not be lawful for any that are sub'

"ject to the Romans to make war with the nation of the Jews,

"nor to assist those that do so, either by sending them corn, or

"ships, or money; and if any attack be made upon the Jews,

"the Romans shall assist them, as far as they are able: and

"again, if any attack be made upon the Romans, the Jews shall

"assist them. And if the Jews had o mind to add to, or to

"take away any thing from this league of assistance, that shall

"be done with the common consent of the Romans. And what-

"soever addition shall thus be made, it shall be of force." This

decree was written by Eupolemus the son of John, and by Ja­

son the son of Eleazar, $ when Judas was high priest of the na­

» This account of the miserable death of Alcimus or Jaclmus, the wicked high

priest, (the first that was not of the family of the high priests, and made by
a vile

heathen, Lysias,) before the death of Judas, and of Judas' succession to him
as a

high priest, both here, and at the conclusion of this book, directly
contradicts,

1 Maccab. ix. 34—57. which places his death after the death of Judas, and says
not

a syllable of the high priesthood of Judas.

')- How well the Koman histories agree to this Bccouot of me conquests an

powerful condition of the Romans at this time, see the notes in Havercamp's
edi­

tion; only that the number of the senators of Rome was then just 32P, is, I
think,

only known from 1 Maccab. viii. 15.

J This subscription is wanting, 1 Maccab. viii. 17, 19. and must be the words

of Josephus, who by mistake, thought, as we have just now seen, that Judas was

at this time high priest, and accordingly then reckoned his brother Jonathan
to be

the general of the army, which yet he seems not to have been till after the
death of

Judas.

VOL II. A. j, 2t

