184 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XII.

together to him, and with them Alcimus the high priest, who

accused the whole nation, and particularly Judas and his breth­

ren; and said, That " they had slain all his friends, and that

"those in his kingdom that were of his party, and waited for

"his return, were by them put to death; that these men had

"ejected them out of their own country; and caused them to be

"sojourners in a foreign land; and they desired that he would

"send some one of his own friends, and know from him what

"mischief Judas' party had done."

2. At this Demetrius was very angry, and stnt Bacchides, a

friend of Antiochus Epiphanes, * a good man; and one that had

been entrusted with all Mesopotamia, and gave him an army,

and committed Alcimus the high priest to his care; and gave

him charge to slay Judas, and those that were with him. So

Bacchides made haste, and went out of Antioch with his army;

and when he was come into Judea, he sent to Judas and his breth­

ren, to discourse with him about a league of friendship and

peace, 'for he had a mind to take him by treachery: But Judas

did not give credit to him, for he saw that he came with so

great an army as men do not bring when they come to make

peace but to make war. However, some of the people acqui­

esced in that Bacchides caused to be proclaimed; and supposing

they should undergo no considerable harm from Alcimus, who

was their countryman, they went over to them; and when they

had received oaths from both of them, that neither they them­

selves, nor those of the same sentiments, should come to any

harm, they entrusted themselves with them: But Bacchides

troubled himself not about the oaths he had taken, and slew

threescore of them, although by not keeping his faith with these

that first went over, he deterred all the rest, who had intentions

to go over to him, from doing it. But as he was gone out of

Jerusalem, and was at the village called Bethzetha, he sent out

and caught many of the deserters, and some of the people also,

and slew them all; and enjoined all that lived in the country to

submit to AJcimus. So he left him there, with some part of

the army that he might have wherewith to keep the country in

obedience, and returned to Antioch, to king Demetrius.

3. But Alcimus was desirous to have the dominion more firm­

ly assured to him; and understanding, that if he could bring it

about that the multitude should be his friends, he should govern

* It is no way probable that Josephus would call Bacchides, that bitter and bloody  
enemy of the Jews, as our present copies have it, a good man, or kind and
gentle*

What the author of the first book of Maccabees, whom Josephus here follows,
in-

stead of that character, says of him, is that he was a great man in the
kingdom, and

faitltful to his ting: which was very probably Josephus' meaning also,

