Chap. IV. ANTI2UITIS8 OF THE JEWS. £7

"death, lie would send on the multitude what miseries he had

"determined for them."

3. So these messengers upon this prophecy of the woman, came

and told it to the king; whereupon he sent to the people every

where, and ordered that the priests and the Levites should come

together to Jerusalem; and commanded that those of every age

should be present also: And when they had gathered together,

he first read to them the holy books; after which he stood upon

a pulpit, in the midst of the multitude, and obliged them to

make a covenant, with an oath, that they would worship God,

and keep the laws of Moses. Accordingly, they gave their as­

sent willingly, and undertook to do what the king had recom­

mended to them. So they immediately offered sacrifices, and

that after an acceptable manner, and besought God to be gra­

cious and merciful to them. He also enjoined the high priest,

that if there remained in the temple any vessel that was dedicated

to idols, or to foreign gods, they should cast it out: So when a

great number of such vessels were got together, he burnt them,

and scattered their ashes abroad, and slew the priests of the

idols, that were not of the family of Aaron.

4. And when he had done thus in Jerusalem, he came into the

country, and utterly destroyed what buildings had been made

therein by king Jeroboam, in honour of strange gods; and he

burnt the bones of the false prophets upon that altar which Je­

roboam first built. And as the prophet [Jadon], who came to

Jeroboam when he was offering sacrifice, and when all the peo­

ple heard him, foretold what would come to pass, viz. That

"a certain man of the house of David, Josiah by name, should

"do what is here mentioned." And it happened that those pre­

dictions took effect after three hundred and sixty-one years.

5. After these things, Josiah went also to such other Israelites

as had escaped captivity and slavery under the Assyrians, and

persuaded them to desist from their impious practices, and to

leave off the honours they paid to strange gods, but to worship

rightly their own Almighty God, and adhere to him. He also

searched the houses and the villages, and the cities, out of a sus­

picion that somebody might have one idol or other in private;

nay, indeed, he took away the * chariots [of the sun] that were

* It is hard to reconcile the account in the second book of Kings, ch. xxilf. II.  
with this account of Jo.scphus, and to translate this passage truly in
Josephus, whose

copies are supposed to be here imperfect: However, the general sense of both
seems

to be this, that there were certain chariots with their horses, dedicated to
the idol of

'In' sun, or to Moloch : which idol must be carried about in procession, and
worship­

ped by the people; which chariots were now taken away, as Josephus says, or «s
tbt

book of the Kings says, burnt with fire by Joiiak

