Chap. VJII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 353

rusalem, where the distress and miseries which the besieged en­

dured, were so pressing, that the greater number of them in­

vited Herod into the city, and already placed their hopes on him.

Now, the sons of Babas were of great dignity, and had power

among the multitude, and were faithful to Antigonus, and were

always raising calumnies against Herod, and encouraged the peo­

ple to preserve the government to that royal family which held

it by inheritance. So these men acted thus politically, and, as

they thought, for their own advantage; but when the city was

taken, and Herod had gotten the government into his hands, and

Costobarus was appointed to hinder men from passing out at the

gates, and to guard the city, that those citizens that were guilty,

and of the party opposite to the king, might not get out of it,

Costobarus being sensible that the sons of Babas were had in re­

spect and honour by the whole multitude, and supposing that

their preservation might b^ of great advantage to him in the

changes of government afterward, he set them by themselves,

and concealed them in his own farms; and when the thing was

suspected, he assured Herod upon oath that he really knew

nothing of that matter, and so overcame the suspicions that lay

upon him; nay, after that, when the king had publicly pro­

posed a reward for the discovery, and had put in practice all

sorts of methods for searching out this matter, he would not

confess it, but being persuaded that when he had at first denied

it, if the men were found, he should not escape unpunished, he

was forced to keep them secret, not only out of his good-will to

them, but out of a necessary regard to his own preservation

also: But when the king knew the thing, by his sister's infor­

mation, he sent men to the places where he had the intimation

they were concealed, and ordered both them, and those that

were accused as guilty with them, to be slain, insomuch that

there were now none at all left of the kindred of Hyrcanus, and

the kingdom was entirely in Herod's own power, and there was

nobody remaining of such dignity as could put a stop to what

he did against the Jewish laws.

CHAP. VIII.

How ten men of (he citizens [of Jerusalem} made a conspiracy

against Herod, for the foreign practices he had introduced,

"which was a transgression of the laws of their country. Con­

cerning the building ofSebaste and Cesarea, and other edifices

of Herod.

§ 1. (. )N_this_iiccoiint it__was that Herod revolted from the

laws of his country, and corrupted their ancient constitution,

