Chap. VII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 401

him, touching upon nothing but what tended to his glory, and

openly excusing many of his notorious crimes, and very diligently

concealing them. And as he was desirous to put handsome

colours on the death of Mariamne, and her sons, which were

barbarous actions in the king, he tells falsehoods about the in­

continence of Mariamne, and the treacherous designs of his sons

upon him,; and thus he proceeded in his whole work, making a

pompous encomium upon what just actions he had done, but ear­

nestly apologizing for his unjust ones. Indeed, a man, as I said,

may have a great deal to say by way of excuse for Nicolaus; for

he did not so properly write this as a history for others, as

somewhat that might be subservient to the king himself. As

for ourselves, who come of a family nearly allied to the Asamonean

kings, and on that account have an honourable place, which is the

priesthood, we think it indecent to say any thing that is false

about them, and accordingly we have described their actions after

an unblemished and upright manner. And although we rever­

ence many of Herod's posterity, who still reign, yet do we pay

A greater regard to truth than to them, and this though it some­

times happens that we incur their displeasure by so doing.

2. And indeed Herod's troubles in his family seemed to be

augmented by reason of this attempt he made upon David's se­

pulchre, whether divine vengeance increased the calamities he lay

under, in order to render them incurable, or whether fortune

made an assault upon him in those cases, wherein the seasonable-

ness of the cause made it strongly believed that.the calamities

came upon him for his impiety; for the tumult was like a civil.

war in his palace, and their hatred towards one another was

like that where each one strove to exceed another in calumnies.

However, Antipater used stratagems perpetually against his

brethren, and that very cunningly: While abroad he loaded them

with accusations, but still took upon him frequently to apologize

for them, that this apparent benevolence to them might make him

be believed, and forward his attempts against them, by which means

he, after various manners, circumvented his father, who believed

that all he did was for his preservation. Herod also recommend­

ed Ptolemy, who was a great director of the . affairs of his king­

dom, to Antipater; and consulted with his mother about the pub­

lic affairs also. And indeed these were all in all, and did what

they pleased, and made the king angry against any other persons,

as they thought it might be to their own advantage: but still the

sons of Mariamne were in a worse and worse condition perpetu­

ally, and while they were thrust out, and set in a more dishonour­

able rank, who yet by birth were the most noble, they could not

bear the dishonour. And for the women; Glaphyra, Alexan­

der's wife, the daughter of Archelaus, hated Salome, both be­

