102 ANTIQUITIES OP THE JEW*. Book XI.

"them to have done speedily, and commanded Sanabassar to

"go up to Jerusalem, and to take care of the building of the

"temple; who, upon receiving that epistle from Cyrus, came,

"and immediately laid its foundations: and although it hath

*' been in building from that time to this, it hath not yet been  
"finished, by reason of the malignity of our enemies. If there-

"fore you have a mind, and think it proper, write this account

"to Darius, that when he hath consulted the records of the

"kings, he may find that we have told you nothing that is false

"about this matter."

5. When Zorobabel and the high priest had made this answer,

Sisinnes, and those that were with him, did not resolve to hin­

der the building, until they had informed king Darius of nil

this. So they immediately wrote to him about these affairs;

but as the Jews were now under terror, and afraid lest the

king should change his resolutions as to the building of Jeru­

salem, and of the temple, there were two prophets at that time

among them, Haggai and Zechariah, who encouraged them,

and bid them be of good cheer, and to suspect no discourage­

ment from the Persians, for that God foretold this to them,

So, in dependance on those prophets, they applied themselves

earnestly to building, and did not intermit one day.

6. Now Darius, when the Samaritans had written to him-,

and in their epistle had accused the Jews, how they fortified the

city, and built the temple more like to a citadel than to a tem­

ple; and said, that their doings were not expedient for the king's

affairs; and besides, they showed the epistle of Cambyses, where­

in he forbade them to build the temple; and when Darius there­

by understood that the restoration of Jerusalem was not expe­

dient for his affairs, and when he had read the epistle that Was

brought him from Sisinnes, and those that were with him, he

gave order that what concerned these matters should be sought

for among the royal records. Whereupon a book was found at

Ecbatana, in the tower that was in Media, wherein was writ­

ten as follows: "Cyrus the king, in the first year of his reign,

"commanded that the temple should be built in Jerusalem;

"and the altar in height threescore cubits, and its breadth of

''' the same, with three edifices of polished stone, and one edifice

"of stoneof their own country: and he ordained that the expenses

"of it should be paid out of the king's revenue. He also corfi-

'' manded that the vessels which Nebuchadnezzar had pillaged

"[out of the temple], and had carried to Babylon, should be

"restored to the people of Jerusalem, and that the care of these

*' things should belong to Sanabassar the governor and president  
"of Syria and Phenicia, and to his associates, that they may

H not meddle with that place, but may permit the servants of

