Chap. V. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

given them leave, they also hid the circumcision of their geni­

tals, that even when they were naked, they might appear to be

Greeks. Accordingly they left off all the customs that belonged

to their own country, and imitated the practices of the other

nations.

2. Now Antiochus, upon the agreeable situation of the affairs

of his kingdom, resolved to make an expedition against Egypt,

both because he had a desire to gain it, and because he contemned

the son of Ptolemy, as now weak, and not yet of abilities to man­

age affairs of such consequence; so he came with great forces

to Pelusium, and circumvented Ptolemy Philometer by treach­

ery, and seized upon Egypt. He then came to the places about

Memphis; and when he had taken them, he made haste to

Alexandria, in hopes of taking it by siege, and of subduing Pto­

lemy, who reigned there. But he was driven not only from

Alexandria, but out of all Egypt, by the declarations of the Ro­

mans, who charged him to let that country alone; according

as I have elsewhere formerly declared. I will now give a par­

ticular account of what concerns this king, how he subdued Ju-

dea and the temple; for in my former work I mentioned those

things very briefly, and have therefore now thought it necessary

to go over that history again, and that with greater accuracy.

3. * King Antiochus returning out of Egypt, for fear of the

Romans, made an expedition against the city Jerusalem; and

when he was there, in the hundred forty and third year of the

kingdom of the Seleucidae, he took the city without fighting,

those of his own party opening the gates to him. And when

he had gotten possession of Jerusalem he slew many of the

opposite party; and when he had plundered it of a great deal of

money, he returned to Antioch.

4. Now it came to pass, after two years, in the hundred forty

and fifth year, on the twenty-fifth day of that month, which is

by us called Chasleu, and by the Macedonians Apelleus, in the

hundred and fifty-third olympiad, that the king came up to Je­

rusalem, and pretending peace, he got possession of the city by

treachery: at which time he spared not so much as those that

uncircumcised Gentiles, these Jewish apostates endeavoured to appear
uncircumcised,

by means of a ehirurgical operation, hinted at by St. Paul, 1 Cor. vii. 18.
and de­

scribed by Celsus, B. VII. chap. xxv. as Dr. Hudson here informs us.

* Hereabouts Josephus begins to follow the first book of the Maccabees, a most  
excellent and most authentic history; and accordingly it is here, with great
fidelity

and exactness, abridged by him; between whose present copies there seem to be
fewer

variations than in any other sacred Hebrew book of the Old Testament
whatsoever,

(for this book also was originally written in Hebrew), which it very natural,
because

it was written so much nearer to the times of Josephus than the rest were.

