Chap. X. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 275

purloined the present intended, and sent it as if it were his

own, and not Hyrcanus' gift to them. Hyrcanus heard of this

his management, but took no care about it: nay, he rather was

very glad of it: But the chief men of the Jews were therefore

in fear, because they saw that Herod was a violent and bold

man, and very desirous of acting tyrannically; so they came to

Hyrcanus, and now accused Antipater openly, and said to him,

"How long wilt thou be quiet under such actions as are now

"done? Or doest thou not see that Antipater and his sons have

"already seized upon the government? And that it is only the

"name of a king which is given thee? But do not thou suffer

"these things to be hidden from thee; nor do thou think to

"escape danger, by being so careless of thyself and of thy king-

"dom, for Antipater and his sons are not now stewards of

"thine affairs: do not thou deceive thyself with such a notion,

"they are evidently absolute lords, for Herod, Antipater's

"son, hath slain Hezekiah and those that were with him, and

"hath thereby transgressed our law, which hath forbidden to

"slay any man, even though he were a wicked man, unless he

"had been first * condemned to suffer death by the sanhedrim;

"yet hath he been so insolent as to do this, and that without

"any authority from thee."

4. Upon Hyrcanus' hearing this, he complied with them.

The mothers also of those that had been slain by Herod raised

this indignation; for those women continued every day in the

temple, persuading the king and the people, that Herod might

undergo a trial before the sanhedrim for what he had done.

Hyrcanus was so moved by these complaints, that he summoned

Herod to come to his trial, for what was charged upon him.

Accordingly he came: but his father had persuaded him to come

not like a private man, but with a guard, for the security of his

person ; and that when he had settled the affairs of Galilee in the

best manner he could for his own advantage, he should come to

his trial, but still with a body of men sufficient for his security

on his journey, yet so that he should not come with so great a

force as might look like terrifying Hyrcanus, but still such a one

as might not expose him naked and unguarded [to his enemies.]

However, Sextus Caesar, president of Syria, wrote to Hyrcanus,

and desired him to clear Herod, and dismiss him at his trial, and

* It is here worth our while to remark, that none could he put to death in  
Judea, but by the approbation of the Jewish sanhedrim, there being an
excellent

provision in the law of Moses, that even in criminal causes, and particularly
where

life was concerned, an appeal should he from the lesser councils of seven in
the

other cities, to the supreme council of seveniy-one at Jerusalem. And this is
exactly

according to our Saviour's words, when he says, " It could not be that a
prophet

should perish out of Jerusalem." Luke xiii. 33.

VOL. II- M M 23

