TOO ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book

also celebrated the feast of tabernacles at that time, as the legis­

lator had ordained concerning it, and after they offered sacrifices,

and what were called the daily "sacrifices, and the oblations pro>

pei- for the Sabbaths, and for all the holy festivals. Those also

vhat had made'vows performed them, and offered their sacrifices,

ironi the firsj day of- the seventh month. They also began to

build the temple, and gave a great deal of money to the masons

and to the carpenter?, and what was necessary fer the maintenance

of the workmen. The Sidonians also were very willing and rea­

dy- to bring the cedar trees from Libanus, to bind them together,

and to make an united float of them, and to bring them to the

port of Joppa, fop that was what Cyrus had commanded at first,

and what was now done at the command of Darius.

2. In the second year of «heir coming to Jerusalem, as the Jews

were there in the second month j the building of the temple went

on apace; and when they hat! laid its foundations on the first day

of the second month, of that second year, they set, as overseers of

the work, such Levites, as were full twenty years old; and Je-

shua and his sons and brethren, and Codmiel the brother of Ju­

das, the son of Aminidab, with his sons, and the temple, by the

great diligence of those that had the care of it, was finished sooner

ebon any one weuld have expected. And when the temple- was

finished, the priests, adorned with their accustomed garments^

stood with their trumpets, while the Levites, and the sons of

Asaph, stood and sung hymns to God, according as David first of

all appointed them to bless God. Now the priests and Levites,

and th« elder part of the families, recollecting with themselves

how much greater and more sumptuous the old temple had been,

seeing that now made, how much inferior it was, on account of

tfheir'poveity, to that whiclrhad been built of old, "considered with

themselves how much their happy state was sunk below what it

had been of old, as well' as their temple. Hereupon they were

disconsolate and not able to contain their grief, and proceeded so

far as to lament and shed tears on those accounts; but the people

rn general were contented with their present condition, and be­

cause they were allowed to build them a temple, they desired no

more, and neither regarded nor remembered, nor indeed at all

tormented themselves with the comparison of that and the former

temple, as if this were below their expectations; but the wailing o

die old men, and of the priests, on account of the deficiency o".

this temple, in their opinion, if compared with that which had

been d<emoli*»hed, overcame the sounds of the trumpets and

ijie rejoicing of the people.

3. -But when tht Samaritans, who were still enemies to the

tribes of Jmlah and Benjamin, heard the sound of the trumpets,

they can*» ^wming together, and desired to know what was th«

