182 ANTICJUITJES or THE JEWS. Book XII.

to his end, when he had first courageously destroyed many of

his enemies.

5. But Judas, seeing the strength of the enemy, retired to Je­

rusalem, and prepared to endure a siege. As for Antiochus, he

sent part of his army to Bethsura, to besiege it, and with the

rest of his army he came against Jerusalem; but the inhabitants

of Bethsura were terrified at his strength; and seeing that their

provisions grew scarce, they delivered themselves up on the se­

curity of oaths, that they should suffer no hard treatment from

the king. And when Antiochus had thus taken the city, he

did them no other harm than sending them out naked. He also

placed a garrison of his own in the city. But as for the temple

of Jerusalem, he lay at its siege a long time, while they within

bravely defended it, for what engines soever the king set against

them, they set other engines again to oppose them. But then

their provisions failed them; what fruits of the ground they had

laid up were spent, and the land being not ploughed that year,

continued unsowed, because it was the seventh year, on which,

by our laws, we are obliged to let it lie uncultivated. And withal

so many of the besieged ran away for want of necessaries, that

but a few only were left in the temple.

6. And these happened to be the circumstances of such as

were besieged'in the temple. But then, because Lysias, the

general of the army, and Antiochus the king, were informed

that Philip was coming upon them out of Persia; and was en­

deavouring to get the management of public affairs to himself,

they came into these sentiments, to leave the siege, and to make

haste to go again to Philip; yet did they resolve not to let this

be known to the soldiers nor to the officers: But the king com­

manded Lysias to speak openly to their soldiers and the officers,

without saying a word about the business of Philip: and to in­

timate to them, that the siege would be very long: that the

place was very strong; that they were already in want of pro­

visions; that many affairs of the kingdom wanted regulation:

and that it was much better to make a league with the besieged,

and to become friends to their whole nation, by permitting them

to observe the laws of their fathers, while they broke out into

this war only because they were deprived of them, and so to de­

part home. When Lysias had discoursed thus to them, both

the army and the officers were pleased with this resolution.

7. Accordingly the king sent to Judas, and to those that were

besieged with them, and promised to give them peace, and to

permit them to make use of, and live according to the laws of

their fathers. And they gladly received his proposals: and

when they had gained security upon oath, for their perform­

ance, they went out of the temple. But when Antiochus came

