Chap. VII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 405

occasion coming to Herod, and supping with him, saw Salome,

and set his heart upon her; and, understanding that she was a

widow, he discoursed with her. Now because Salome was at

this time less in favour with her brother, she looked upon Syl-

leus with some passion, and was very earnest to be married to

him; and on the days following there appeared many, and those

very great, indications of their agreement together. Now the

women carried this news to the king, and laughed at the inde­

cency of it; whereupon Herod inquired about it farther of Phe-

roras, and desired him to observe them at supper, how their be­

haviour was one toward another; who told him, that by the

signals which came from their heads and their eyes, they both

were evidently in love. After this Sylleus the Arabian being

suspected, went away, but came again two or three months after­

wards, as it were on that very design, and spoke to Herod

about it, and desired that Salome might be given him to wife;

for that his affinity might not be disadvantageous to his affairs,

by a union with Arabia, the government of which country was

already in effect under his power, and more evidently would be

his hereafter. Accordingly, when Herod discoursed with his

sister about it, and asked her, whether she were disposed to this

match? she immediately agreed to it. But when Sylleus was

desired to come over to the Jewish religion, and then he should

marry her, and that it was impossible to do it on any other terms,

he could not bear that proposal, and went his way; for he said

that if he should do so, he should be stoned by the Arabs. Then

did Pheroras reproach Salome for her incontinency, as did the

women much more; and said that Sylleus had debauched her.

As for that damsel, whom the king had betrothed to his bro­

ther Pheroras, but he had not taken her, as I have before re­

lated, because he was enamoured of his former wife, Salome

desired of Herod she might be given to her son by Costobarus;

which match he was very willing to, but was dissuaded from it

by Pheroras, who pleaded, that this young man would not be

kind to her, since his father had been slain by him, and that it

was more just that his son, who was to be his successor in the

tetrarchy, should have her: So he begged his pardon, and per­

suaded him to do so. Accordingly the damsel, upon this change

of her espousals, was disposed of to this young man, the son of

Pheroras, the king giving for her portion a hundred talents.

