Chap. X. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 277

he fled from the king: and when he had been with Sextus

Caesar, and had put his own affairs in a sure posture, he resolv­

ed to do thus, that in case he were again summoned before the

sanhedrim to take his trial, he would not obey that summons.

Hereupon the members of the sanhedrim had great indignation

at this posture of affairs, and endeavoured to persuade Hyrcanus

that all these things were against him. Which state of matters

he was not ignorant of, but his temper was so unmanly, and

so foolish, that he was able to do nothing at all. But when Sextus

had made Herod general of the army of Coelesyria, for he sold

him that post for money, Hyrcanus was in fear lest Herod

should make war upon him: nor was the effect of what he

feared long in coming upon him, for Herod came and brought

an army along with him, to fight with Hyrcanus, as being an­

gry at the trial he had been summoned to undergo before the

sanhedrim, but his father Antipater, and his brother [Phasae-

lus,] met him and hindered him from assaulting Jerusalem.

They also pacified his vehement temper, and persuaded him to

do no overt action, but only to affright them with threatenings,

and to proceed no farther against one who had given him the

dignity he had: they also desired him not only to be angry that

he was summoned, and obliged to come to his trial, but to re­

member withal, how he was dismissed without condemnation,

and how he ought to give Hyrcanus thanks for the same, and

that he was not to regard only what was disagreeable to him,

and be unthankful for his deliverance. So they desired him

to consider, that since it is God that turns the scales of war,

there is great uncertainty in the issues of battles, and that there­

fore he ought not to expect the victory, when he should fight

with his king, and him that had supported him, and bestowed

many benefits upon him, and had done nothing itself very se­

vere to him; for that his accusation, which was derived from

evil counsellors, and not from himself, had rather the suspicion

of some severity, than any thing really severe in it. Herod

was persuaded by these arguments, and believed that it was

sufficient for his future hopes to have made a show of his

strength before the nation; and done no more to it: And in

this state were the affairs of Judea at this time.

OHAP. X.

The honours that were paid the Jews; and the leagues that were

made by the Romans, and other nations, with them.

§ 1. .N ow when Caesar was come to Rome, he was ready to

sail into Africa to fight against Scipio and Cato, when Hyrcau-

us sent ambassadors to him, and by them desired that he

