Chap. VIII. ANTIQUITIES OK THE JEWS. 27

i

the captains of hundreds, and the rulers, and all the people,

took Jehoash, out of the temple into the king's palace, and when

he had set him into the king's throne, the people shouted for

joy, and betook themselves to feasting, and kept a festival for

many days; but the city was quiet upon the death of Athaliah.

Now Jehoash was seven years old when he took the kingdom:

His mother's name was Zibiah, of the city Beersheba. And all

the time that Jehoiada lived, Jehoash was careful that the laws

should be kept, and very zealous in the worship of God; and

when he was of age, he married two wives, who were given to

him by the high priest, by whom were born to him both sons

and daughters. And thus much shall suffice to have related con­

cerning king Jehoash, how he escaped the treachery of Athaliah,

and how he received the kingdom.

CHAP. VIII.

Haxael makes an expedition against the people of Israel, and the

inhabitants of Jerusalem. Jehu dies, and Jehoahaz succeeds

in the government. Jehoash the king of Jerusalem, atjirst

is careful about the worship of God, but afterwards becomes

impious, and commands Zachariah to be stoned. When Jehoash

[king ofjudah] was dead, Amaziah succeeds him in the king­

dom.

$ 1. .Now Hazael, king of Syria, fought against the Israel­

ites and their king Jehu, and spoiled the eastern parts of the

country beyond Jordan, which belonged to the Reubenites and

Gadites, and to [the half tribe of] Manassites; as also Gilead

and Bashan, burning and spoiling, and offering violence to all

that he laid his hands on; and this without impeachment from

Jehu, who made no haste to defend the country when it was

under this distress: nay, he was become a contemner of reli­

gion, and a despiser of holiness, and of the laws; and died

when he had reigned over the Israelites twenty-seven years. He

was buried in Samaria : and left Jehoahaz his son his successor

in the government.

2. Now Jehoash, king of Jerusalem, had an inclination to re­

pair the temple of God; so he called Jehoiada, and bid him send

the Levites and priests through all the country, to require half

a shekel of silver for every head, towards the rebuilding and re­

pairing of the temple, which was brought to decay by Jehoram,

and Athaliah, and her sons. But the high priest did not do this,

as concluding that no one would willingly pay the money; but

on the twenty-third year of Jehoash's reign, when the king sent

forhim and the Levites, and complained that they had not obeyed

what he enjoined them, and still commanded them to take care

VOL. iI. u 15

