306 ANTIQUITIES OV THE JEWS. Book XIV-

his father, and some because of the splendid appearance he made,

- and others by way of requital for the benefits they had received  
from both of them, but the greatest number came to him in

hopes of getting somewhat from him afterward, if he were once

firmly settled in the kingdom.

2. Herod had now a strong army; and as he marched on, An-

tigonus laid snares and ambushes in the passes and places most

proper for them, but in truth he thereby did little or no damage

to the enemy: so Herod received those of his family out of

Massada, and the fortress Ressa, and then went on for Jeru­

salem. The soldiery also that was with Silo accompanied him

all along, as did many of the citizens, being afraid of his power;

and as soon as he had pitched his camp on the west side of the

city, the soldiers that were set to guard that part shot their ar­

rows, and threw their darts at him; and when some sallied out

in a crowd, and came to fight hand to hand with the first ranks

of Herod's army, he gave orders that they should, in the first

place, make proclamation about the wall, That "he came for

"the good of the people, and for the preservation of the city,

"and not to bear any old grudge at even his most open enemies,

"but ready to forget the offences which his greatest adversaries

"had done him." But Antigonus, by way of reply to what

Herod had caused to be proclaimed, and this before the Romans,

and before Silo also, said "That they would not do justly, if

"they gave the kingdom to Herod, who was no more than .1

"private man, and an Idumean, i. e. * a half Jew, whereas

"they ought to bestow it on one of the royal family, as their

"custom was; for, that in case they at present bare an ill-will

"to him, and had resolved to deprive him of the kingdom, as

"having received it from the Parthians, yet were there many

"others of his family that might by their law take it, and these

"such as had no way offended the Romans, and being of the sa-

"cerdotal family, it would be an unworthy thing to put them

"by." Now, while they said thus, one to another, and fell to

reproaching one another on both sides, Antigonus permitted his

own men that were upon the wall to defend themselves, who

using their bows, and showing great alacrity against their ene­

mies, easily drove them away from the towers.

* Tliis affirmation of Antigonus' spoken in the days of Herod, and in a manner  
to his face, tlmt he was an Idumean, i. e. a half Jew, seems to me of much
gieatei

authority than that pretence of his favourite and flatterer Nicolaus of
Damascus, that

he derived his pedigree from Jews as far backward as the Babylonish captivity,
ch. i.

sect. 3. Accordingly Josephus always esteems him an Idumean, though he says
his

father Antipater was of the sarce people with the Jews, ch. viii. sect. I. and
by birth

a Jew, Antip. B. XX. ch. viii. sect 7. as indeed all such proselytes of
Justice, at

th« Idumeans, were in time esteemed the very same people as the Jews.

