74 ANTIQUITIES OF THiI JEWS. Book X.

the entire mterval of time which passed from the captivity of the

Israelites, to the carrying away of the two tribes, proved to be

an hundred and thirty years six months and ten days.

CHAR X.

Concerning Daniel, and what befell him at Babylon.

§ 1. DUT new Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon took some

of the most noble of the Jews that were children and the kins­

men of Zedekiah their king, such as were rem arkable for the beau­

ty of their bodies, and the comeliness of their countenances, and

delivered them into the hands of tutors, and to the improvement

to be made by them. He also made some of them to be eunuchs -

which course he took also with those of other nations, whom he

had taken in the flower of their age, and afforded them their

diet from his own table, and had them instructed in the insti­

tutes of the country, and taught the learning of the Chaldeans;

and they had now exercised themselves sufficiently in that wis­

dom which he had ordered they should apply themselves to.

Now among these there were four of the family of Zedekiah, 01

most excellent dispositions, one of whom was called Daniel,

another was called Ananias, another Mesael, and the fourth

Azarias: And the king of Babylon changed their names, and com­

manded that they should make use of other names; Daniel he

called Baltasar, Ananias, Shadrach, Mesael, Meshach, and Aza­

rias, Abednego. These the king had in esteem, and continued

to love, because of the very excellent temper they were of, and

because of their application to learning, and the progress they

had made in wisdom.

2. Now Daniel and his kinsmen, had resolved to use a severe

diet, and to abstain from those kinds of food which came from

the king's table, and entirely to forbear to eat of all living crea­

tures: So he came to Ashpenaz, who was that * eunuch to

whom the care of them was committed, and desired him to take

and spend what was brought for them from the king, but to

give them pulse and dates for their food, and any thing else,

besides the flesh of living creatures, that he pleased; for that their

inclinations were to that sort of food, and that they despised the

* That Daniel was made one of these eunuchs of which Isaiah prophesied Isa.  
xxxix. 7. and the three children his companions also, seems to me plain, both
here

in Josephus, and in our copies of Daniel, Dan. i. 3, 6, 7—11, 18. although it
must

be granted that some married persons, that had children were sometimes called

eunuchs, in a general acceptation for courtiers, on account that so many of
the an­

cient courtiers were real-.cunuchs. See Gen, zxxix. 1. . -'-•-.

