44 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book IX,

sorts of their fruits to the priests and the Levites. The king

also made garners and receptacles for these fruits, and distribut­

ed them to every one of their priests and Levites, and to their

children and wives. And thus did they return to their old form

of divine worship. Now when the king had settled these mat­

ters after the manner already described, he made war upon the

Philistines, and beat them, and possessed himself of ah1 the ene­

mies' cities from Gaza to Gath; but the king of Assyria sent

to him, and threatened to overturn all his dominions, unless he

would pay him the tribute which his father paid him formerly;

but king Hezekiah was not concerned at his threatenings, but

depended on his piety towards God, and upon Isaiah the pro­

phet, by whom he inquired, and accurately knew all future

events. And thus much shall suffice for the present concerning

this king Hezekiah.

CHAP. XIV.

flow Shalmaneser took Samaria by force, and how Tie transplanted

the ten tribes into Media, and brought the nation of the Cutheans

into their country [in their room'].

$ 1. WHEN Shalmaneser, the king of Assyria, had it told

him, that [Hoshea], the king of Israel had sent privately to

So, the king of Egypt, desiring his assistance against him,

he was very angry, and made an expedition against Sama­

ria, in the seventh year of the reign of Hoshea; but when

he was not admitted [into the city] by the king, * he besieged

Samaria three years, and took it by force in the ninth year of

the reign of Hoshea, and in the seventh year of Hezekiah king

of Jerusalem, and quite demolished the government of the

Israelites, and transplanted all the people into Media, and

Persia, among whom he took king Hoshea alive; and when he

had removed these people out of this their land, he transplanted

other nations out of Cuthath, a place so called, (for there is [still]

a river of that name in Persia) into Samaria, and into the coun­

try of the Israelites. So the ten tribes of the Israelites were re-

mQved out of Judea, nine hundred and forty-seven years after

their forefathers were come out of the land of Egypt, and pos­

* The siege of Samaria, though nor given a particular account of, either in our  
Hebrew or Greek Bibles, or in Josephus, was so very long, no less than three
years,

that it was no way improbable but that parents, and particularly mothers,
might

therein be reduced to e»t their own children, as the law of Moses had
threatened

upon their disobedience, Lev-it- xxvi. 29. Deut, xxviii. 53—57. and as was
accom­

ptished in the other shorter sieges of both the capital cities, Jerusalem and
Samaria;

the former mentioned, Jer. xix. 9. Antiq. B. IX. ch. 4. § 4. and the latter. 2
King*

»i. 2U—29.

