Chilp. XI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 83

3. When Baltasar heard this, he called for Daniel; and when

he had discoursed to him what he had learned concerning him

and his wisdom, and how a divine spirit was with him; and thaf

he alone was fully capable of finding out what others wouk\

never have thought of, he desired him to declare to him what

this writing meant: That if he did so, he would give him leave

to wear purple, and to put a chain of gold about his neck, and

would bestow on him the third part of his dominion, as an hon­

orary reward for his wisdom, that thereby he might become

illustrious to those who saw him, and who inquired upon what

occasion he obtained such honours. But Daniel desired, That

"he would keep his gifts to himself: for what is the effect of

"wisdom, and of divine revelation, admits of no gifts, and be-

"stows its advantages on petitioners freely, but that still he would

"explain the writing to him: which denoted, that he should

"soon die, and this because he had not learnt to honour God,

"atid not to admit things above human nature, by what punish-

"ments his progenitors had undergone, for the injuries he ha'd

"offered to God; and because he had quite forgotten how Ne-

"buchadnezzar was removed to feed among wild beasts, fbf his

"impieties, and did not recover his former fife among men, and

"his kingdom, but upon God's mercy to him, after many sup-

"plications and prayers; who did thereupon praise God all the

"days of his life, as one of almighty power, and who takes care

"of mankind. [He also put him in mind] how he had greatly

"blasphemed against God, and had made use of his vessels,

'amongst his concubines: that therefore God saw this, and was

"angry with him, and declared by this writing beforehand

"what a sad conclusion of his life he should come to. And he

"explained the writing thus;—MANEH. This, if it be ex-

"pounded in the Greek language, may .signify, a Ntimber, be-

"cause God hath numbered so long a time for thy life, and for

"thy government, and that there remains but a small portion.

"THEKEL. This signifies, a Weight, and means that God

"hath weighed thy kingdom in a balance, and finds it going

"down already. PHARES, This also, in the Greek tongue,

"denotes a Fragment,- God will therefore break thy kingdom

"in pieces, and divide it among the Medes and Persians."

4. When Daniel had told the king, that the writing upon the

wall signified these events, Baltasar was in great sorrow and af­

fliction, as was to be expected, when the interpretation was so

heavy upon him. However, he did not refuse what he had pro-

raised Daniel, although he were become a foreteller of misfor­

tunes to him, but bestowed it all upon him: as reasoning thus,

that what he was to reward was peculiar to himself, and to fate,

and did not belong to the prophet; but that it was the part of a

VOL. II \, IT

