Chap. II. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 879

he had built, and at the fortresses which he had erected at great

expense, Alexandrium, and Herodium, and Hyrcania. He also

conducted him to the city Jerusalem, where all the people met

him in their festival garments, and received him with acclama­

tions. Agrippa also offered a hecatomb of sacrifices to God;

and feasted the people, without omitting any of the greatest

dainties that could be gotten. He also took so much pleasure

there, that he abode many days with them, and would willingly

have staid longer, but that the season of the year made him

make haste away; for, as winter was coming on, he thought it

not safe to go to sea later, and yet he was of necessity to return-

again to Ionia.

2. So Agrippa went away, when Herod had bestowed on him,

and on the principal of those that were with him, many presents-,

but king Herod, when he had passed the winter in his own do­

minions, made haste to get to him again in the spring, when he

knew he designed to go to a campaign at the Bosphorus. So

when he had sailed by Rhodes, and by Cos, he touched at Les­

bos, as thinking he should have overtaken Agrippa there, but

he was taken short here by a northwind, which hindered his

ship from going to the shore; so he continued many days at

Chios, and there he kindly treated a great many that came to

him, and obliged them by giving them royal gifts. And when

he saw that the portico of the city was fallen down, which, as

it was overthrown in the Mithridatic war, and was a very large

and fine building, so was it not so easy to rebuild that, as it was

the rest, yet did he furnish a sum not only large enough for that

purpose, but what was more than sufficient to finish the build­

ing, and ordered them not to overlook that portico, but to re­

build it quickly, that so the city might recover its proper orna­

ments. And when the high winds were laid, he sailed to Mity-

lene, and thence to Byzantium; and when he heard that Agrippa

was sailed beyond the Cyanean rocks, he made all the haste pos­

sible to overtake him, and came up with him about Sinope, in

Pontus. He was seen sailing by the shipmen most unexpectedly,

but appeared to their great joy; and many friendly salutations

there were between them, insomuch that Agrippa thought

he had received the greatest marks of the king's kindness and

humanity towards him possible, since the king had come so long

a voyage, and at a very proper season for his assistance, and had

left the government of his own dominions, and thought it more

worth his while to come to him. Accordingly, Herod was all

in all to Agrippa, in the management of the war, and a great

assistant in civil affairs, and in giving him counsel as to parti­

cular matters. He was also a pleasant companion for him when

he relaxed himself- and a joint partaker with him in all things:

VOL. u. SB 27

