S86 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVI.

the death of their mother, that while they said both she and

themselves were in a miserable case, they vehemently complain­

ed of her pitiable end, which indeed was truly such, and said

that they were themselves in a pitiable case also, because they

were forced to live with those that had been her murderers,

and to be partakers with them.

2. These disorders increased greatly, and the king's absence

abroad had afforded a fit opportunity for that increase; but as

soon as Herod was returned, and had made the forementioned

speech to the multitude, Pheroras and Salome let fall words im­

mediately, as if he were in great danger, and as if the young

men openly threatened that they would not spare him any longer,

but revenge their mother's death upon him. They also added

another circumstance, that their hopes were fixed on Arche-

laus, the king of Cappadocia, that they should be able by his

means to come to Caesar, and accuse their father. Upon hearing

such things, Herod was immediately disturbed; and indeed was

the more astonished, because the same things were related to

him by some others also. He then called to mind his former

calamity, and considered that the disorders in his family had

hindered him from enjoying any comfort from those that were

dearest to him, or from his wife whom he loved so well; and

suspecting that his future troubles would soon be heavier and

greater, than those that were past, he was in great confusion of

mind; for divine providence had in reality conferred upon him

a great many outward advantages for his happiness, even be­

yond his hopes, but the troubles he had at home were such as

he never expected to have met with, and rendered him unfortu­

nate; nay both sorts came upon him to such a degree as no one

could imagine, and made it a doubtful question, whether, upon

the comparison of both, he ought to have exchanged so great a

success of outward good things, for so great misfortunes at home,

or whether he ought not to have chosen to avoid the calamities

relating to his family, though he had, for a compensation, never

been possessed of the admired grandeur of a kingdom.

3. As he was thus disturbed and afflicted, in order to depress

these young men, he brought to court another of his sons, that

was born to him when he was a private man: his name was

Antipater ,' yet did he not then indulge him as he did afterwards,

when he was quite overcome by him, and let him do every thing

as he pleased, but rather with a design of depressing the insolence

of the sons of Mariamne, and managing this elevation of his so,

that it might be for a warning to them, for this bold behaviour

of theirs (he thought) would not be so great, if they were once

persuaded, that the succession to the kingdom did not appertain

to them alone, or must of necessity come to them. So he intro­

