Chap. VI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 121

and his friend Haman would come to her to a banquet, for she

said she had prepared a supper for him. He consented to it;

and when they were there, as they were drinking, he bid Esther

to " let him know what she desired; for that she should not be

"disappointed, though she should desire the half of his king-

"dom." But she put off the discovery of her petition till the

next day, if he would come again, together with Haman, to her

banquet.

10. Now when the king had promised so to do, Haman went

away very glad, because he alone had the honour of supping with

the king at Esther's banquet, and because no one else partook

of the same honour with kings but himself; yet when he saw

Mordecai in the court, he was very much displeased, for he paid

him no manner of respect when he saw him. So he went home

and called for his wife Zeresh, and his friends, and when they

were come, he showed them what honour he enjoyed not only

from the king, but from the queen also, for as he alone had that

day supped with her, together with the king, so was he also in­

vited again for the next day; yet, said he, am I not pleased to

see Mordecai the Jew in the court. Hereupon his wife Zeresh

advised him to give order that a gallows should be made fifty

cubits high, and that in the morning he should ask it of the king,

that Mordecai might be hanged thereon. So he commended her

advice, and gave order to his servants to prepare the gallows, and

to place it in the court, for the punishment'of Mordecai thereon,

which was accordingly prepared. But God laughed to scorn the

wicked expectations of Haman ; and as he knew what the event

would be, was delighted at it, for that night he took away the

king's sleep; and as the king was not willing to lose the time of

his lying awake, but to spend it in something that might be of

advantage to his kingdom, he commanded the scribe to bring him

the chronicles of the former kings, and the records of his own

actions; and when he had brought them and was reading them,

one was found to have received a country on account of his ex­

cellent management on a certain occasion, and the name of the

country was set down; another was found to have had a present

made him on account of his fidelity: then the scribe came to Big-

than and Teresh, the eunuchs that had made a conspiracy against

the king, which Mordecai had discovered, and when the scribe

said no more but that, and was going on to another history, the

king stopped him, and inquired " Whether it was not added that

"Mordecai had a reward given him?" and when he said there

was no such addition, he bid him leave off; and he inquired of

those that were appointed for that purpose, what hour of the

night it was? and when he was informed that it was already

day, he gave order, that if they found any one of his friends al­

