220 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEW!,. Book XIII.

into captivity, Trypho his governor destroyed Antiochus * the

son of Alexander, who was also called f the God, and this

when he had reigned four years, though he gave it out that he

died under the hands of the surgeons. He then sent his friends,

and those that were most intimate with him, to the soldiers;

and promised that he would give them a great deal of money

if they would make him king. He intimated to them that

Demetrius was made a captive by the Parthians; and that De­

metrius' brother Antiochus, if he came to be king, would do

them a great deal of mischief, in way of revenge for their re­

volting from his brother. So the soldiers, in expectation of the

wealth they should get by bestowing the kingdom on Trypho,

made him their ruler. However, when Trypho had gained the

management of affairs, he demonstrated his disposition to be

wicked; for while he was a private person, he cultivated a fa­

miliarity with the multitude, and pretended to great modera­

tion, and so drew them on artfully to whatsoever he pleased;

but when he had once taken the kingdom, he laid aside any

farther dissimulation, and was true Trypho, which behaviour

made his enemies superior to him, for the soldiery hated him,

and revolted from him to Cleopatra the wife of Demetrius,

who was then shut up in Seleucia with her children. But as

Antiochus, the brother of Demetrius, who was called Soter,

to the crown, about the 140th year before the Christian sera, he granted great
pri­

vileges to the Jewish nation, and to Simon their high priest and ethnarch,
which

privileges Simon seems to have taken of his own accord about three years
before.

In particular, he gave him leave to coin money for his country with his own
stamp;

and as concerning Jerusalem, and the sanctuary, that they should be free, or
as the

vulgar Latin hath it, holy and free, 1 Maccab. xv. 6, 7. which I take to be
the true,

reading, as being the very words of his father's concession offered to
Jonathan several

years before, ch. x. 31. and Antiq. B. XIII. ch. ii. sect. 5. vol. II. Now
what

makes this date, and these grants, greatly remarkable, is the state of the
remaining

genuine shekels of the Jews with Samaritan characters, w*iicb seem to have
been

(most of them at least) coined in the four first years of this Simon the
Asamonean,

and having upon them these words on one side, Jerusalem the holy, and on the
re­

verse, In the year of freedom, 1. or 2. or 3. or 4. which shekels therefore
are origmal

monuments of these times, and undeniable marks of the truth of the history in
these

chapters, though it be in a great measure omitted by Josephus. See Essay on
the

Old Test. p. 157, 158. The reason why I rather suppose that his copy of the
Mac­

cabees wanted these chapters, than that his own copies are here imperfect, is
this, that

all their contents are not here omitted, though much the greatest part be.

* How Trypho killed this Antiochus, the epitome of Livy informs us, chap. 55.  
viz. that he corrupted his physicians or surgeons, who falsely pretending to
the peo­

ple that be was perishing with the stone, as they cut him for it, killed him,
which

exactly agrees with Josephus.

f That this Antiochus, the son at Alexander Balas, was called the God, is
evident

from his coins, which Spanheim assures us bear this inscription, Xing
Antiochut

the God, Epiphanes the Victorious.

