0t ANTIQUITIES OF THK JEWS. Book X,

phecy; but he was also made blind, and brought to Babylon,

but did not see it, according to the prediction of Ezekiel.

3. We have said thus much, because it was sufficient to show

the nature of God to such as are ignorant of it, that it is various,

and acts many different ways, ami that aU events happen after

a regular manner, in their proper season, and that foretells what

must come to pass. It is also sufficient to show the ignorance

and incredulity of men, whereby they are not permitted to fore­

see any thing that is future, and are, without any guard, ex­

posed to calamities, so that it is impossible for them- to avoid

the experience of those calamities.

4. And after this manner have the kings of David's race ended

their lives, being in number twenty-one, until the last king, who

altogether reigned five hundred and fourteen years, and six

months, and ten days; of whom Saul, who was their first king,

retained the government twenty years, though he was not of the

same tribe with the rest.

5. And now it was that the king of Babylon sent Nebuzara-

dan, the general of his army, to Jerusalem, to pillage the temple,

who had it also in command to burn it and the royal palace, and

to lay the city even with the ground, and to transplant the peo­

ple into Babylon. Accordingly, he came to Jerusalem in the

eleventh year of king Zedekiah, and pillaged the temple, and car­

ried out the vessels of God, both gold and silver, and particular­

ly that large laver which Solomon dedicated, as also the pillars o«

brass, and their chapiters, with the golden tables and the candle­

sticks; and when he had carried these off, he set fire to the tem­

ple in the fifth month, the first day of the month, on the eleventh

year of the reign of Zedekiah, and in the eighteenth year of Ne­

buchadnezzar; he also burnt the palace, and overthrew the

city. Now the temple was burnt four hundred and seventy

years, six months and ten days, after it was built. It was

then one thousand and sixty-two years, six months and ten days,

from the departure out of Egypt; and from the deluge to the

destruction of the temple, the whole interval was one thousand

nine hundred fifty-seven years, six months and ten days; but from

the generation of Adam, until this befell the temple, there were

three thousand five hundred and thirteen years, six months and

ten days; so great was the number of years hereto belonging.

And what actions were done during these years, we have parti­

cularly related. But the general of tfie Babylonian king now over­

threw the city to the very foundations, and removed all the peo­

ple, and took for prisoners the liigh priest Seraiah, and Zepha-

niah the priest that was next to him, and the rulers that guarded

the temple, who were three in number, and the eunuch who was

ovw the armed men, and seven friends of Zedekiah, and his

