Chap. IX. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 75

God had foretold these things, he was not believed, when he said

that God commanded them to continue 'in that country, but they

imagined that he said so to gratify Baruch, his own disciple, and

belied God, and that he persuaded them to stay there, that they

might be destroyed by the Babylonians. Accordingly, both the

people and Johanan disobeyed the counsel of God, which he

gave them by the prophet, and removed into Egypt, and car­

ried Jeremiah and Baruch along with him.

7. And when they were there, God signified to the prophet,

that the king of Babylon was about making an expedition against

the Egyptians, and commanded him to foretell to the people that

Egypt should be taken, and the king of Babylon should slay some

of them, and should take others captive, and bring them to Ba­

bylon; which things came to pass accordingly: for on the fifth

year after the destruction of Jerusalem, which was the twenty-

third of the reign of Nebuchadnezzar, he made an expedition

against Celcesyria, and when he had possessed himself of it, he

made war against the Ammonites and Moabites; and when he

had brought all these nations under subjection, he fell upon

Egypt, in order to overthrow it; and he slew the * king that

then reigned, and set up another; and he.took those Jews that

were there captives, and led them away to Babylon. And such

was the end of the nation of the Hebrews, as it hath been deli­

vered down to us, it having gone twice beyond Euphrates; for

the people of the ten tribes were carried out of Samaria by the

Assyrians, in the days of king Hoshea; after which the people

of the two tribes that remained after Jerusalem was taken, [were

carried away] by Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon and

Chaldea. Now as to Shalmanezer, he removed the Israelites

out of their country, and placed therein the nation of the Cu-

theans, who had formerly belonged to the inner parts of Persia

and Media, but were then called Samaritans, by taking the name

of the country to which they were removed; but the king of

Babylon, who brought out the two tribes ')-, placed no other na­

tion in their country, by which means all Judea and Jerusalem,

and the temple, continued to be a desert for seventy years : but

* Herodotus says, this king of Ejrypt [Pharaoh Hophra, or Apries] was slain by  
the Egyptians, as Jeremiah foretold his slaughter by his enemies, Jer. xliv.
29, 3O.

and that as a sign of the destructior of Egypt [by Nebuchadnezzar,] Josephus
says,

tliis king was slain by Nebuchadnezzar himself.

')' We see here that Judea was left in a manner desolate after the captivity
of the

two tribes, and was not repeopled with foreign colonies, perhaps as an
indication of

Providence that the Jews were to repeople it without opposition themselves. I
also

esteem the latter and present desolate condition of the same country, without
being

repeopled by foreign colonies, to be a like indication, that the same Jews are
hereaf­

ter to repeople it again t>?«mseWes, at their so long expected future
restoration.

