Chap. IV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 161

"he came to have so many bones before him?" he replied,

"Very rightfully, my lord: for they are dogs that eat the flesh

"and the bones together, as these thy guests have done, (looking

"in the mean time at those guests), for there is nothing before

"them; but they are men that eat the flesh, and cast away the

"bones, as I, who am also a man, have now done." Upon which

the king admired at his answer, which was so wisely made; and

bid them all make an acclamation, as a mark of their approba­

tion of his jest, which was truly a facetious one. On the next

day Hyrcanus went to every one of the king's friends, and

of the men powerful at court, and saluted them; but still

inquired of the servants what present they would make the

king on his son's birth-day? and when some said that they

would give twelve talents, and that others of greater dignity

would every one give according to the quantity of their riches,

he pretended to every one to be grieved that he was not able to

bring so large a present; for that he had no more than five ta­

lents. And when the servants heard what he said, they told their

masters, and they rejoiced in the prospect that Joseph would be

disapproved, and would make the king angry, by the smallness of

his present. When the day came, the others, even those that

brought the most, offered the king not above twenty talents; but

Hyrcanus gave to every one of the hundred boys, and hundred

maidens that he had bought, a talent a-piece, for them to carry,

and introduced them, the boys to the king, and the maidens to

Cleopatra: every body wondering at the unexpected richness of

the presents, even the king and queen themselves. He also pre­

sented those that attended about the king with gifts to the value

of a great number of talents, that he might escape the danger

he was in from them; for to these it was that Hyrcanus'

brethren had written to destroy him. Now Ptolemy admired

at the young man's magnanimity; and commanded him to ask

what gift he pleased. But he desired nothing else to be done for

him by the king than to write to his father and brethren about

him. So when the king had paid him very great respects, and

had given him very large gifts, and had written to his father

and his brethren, and all his commanders, and officers about him,

he sent him away. But when his brethren heard that Hyrca­

nus had received such favours from the king, and was return­

ing home with great honour, they went out to meet him, and

to destroy him, and that with the privity of their father: for he

was angry at him for the [large] sum of money that he bestowed

for presents, and so had no concern for his preservation.

However, Joseph concealed the anger he had at his son, out of

fear of the king. And when Hyrcanus' brethren came to fight

him, he slew many others of those that were with them; as also

