424 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVI.

"also." Whereupon Herod was silent, and in greiit thought-

fitlness, and bid Nicolaus sail along with him.

4. Now as they came to Caesarea, every body was there talk­

ing of Herod's sons, and the kingdom was in suspense, and the

people in great expectation of what would become of them, for

a terrible tear seized upon all men, lest the ancient disorders of

the family should come to a sad conclusion, and they were in

great trouble about their sufferings: nor was it without danger

to say any rash thing about this matter, nor even to hear another

saying it; but men's pity was forced to be shut up in themselves,

»vhich rendered the excess of their sorrow very irksome, but very

silent; yet was there an old soldier of Herod's, whose name

was Tero, who had a son of the same age with Alexander, and

his friend, who was so very free, as openly to speak out what

others silently thought about that matter: and was forced to cry

out often among the multitude, and said, in the most unguarded

manner, "That truth was perished, and justice taken away from

"men, while lies and ill-will prevailed, and brought such a mist

"before public affairs, that the offenders were not able to see

"the greatest mischief that can befall men." And as he was

so bold, he seemed not to have kept himself out of danger, by

speaking so freely; but the reasonableness of what he said,

moved men to regard him, as having behaved himself with great

manhood, and this at a proper time also, for which reason

every one heard what he said with pleasure; and although they

first took care of their own safety, by keeping silent themselves,

yet did they kindly receive the great freedom he took; for the

expectation they were in of so great an affliction, put a force

upon them to speak of Tero whatsoever they pleased.

5. This man had thrust himself into the king's presence with

the greatest freedom, and desired to speak with him by himself

alone, which the king permitted him to do, where he said this:

"Since I am not able, O king, to bear up under so great a con-

"cern as I am under, I have preferred the use of this bold li-

'berty that I now take, which may be for thy advantage, if

'thou mind to get any profit by it, before my own safety.

'Whither is thy understanding gone, and left thy soul empty?

'Whither is that extraordinary sagacity of thine gone, where-

* by thou hast performed so many and such glorious actions f  
"Whence comes this solitude, and desertion of thy friends and

"relations? Of which I cannot but determine, that they are

"neither thy friends nor relatic-ns, while they overlook so hor-

"rid wickedness in thy once happy kingdom. Dost not thou

"perceive what is doing? Wilt thou slay these two young men,

"born of thy queen, who are accomplished with every virtue

"in the highest degree, aiH leave thyself destitute in thy old

