388 /iimgoiTiES OF THE JEWS. Book XVI.

whom he delivered to Agrippa, that he might take him along

with him. together with many presents, that so he might be­

come Caesar's friend, insomuch, that things already looked as

if he had all his father's favour, and that the young men were

entirely rejected from any hopes of the kingdom.

CHAP. IV.

How, during Antipater's abode at Home, Herod brought Alex­

ander and Aristobulus before C&sar, and accused them. Alex­

ander's defence of himself before Caesar, and reconciliation to

hisfather.

§ 1. AND now what happened during Antipater's absence,

augmented the honour to which he had been promoted, and

his apparent eminence above his brethren, for he had made a

great figure in Rome, because Herod had sent recommendations

of him to all his friends there, only he was grieved that he was

not at home, nor had proper opportunities of perpetually calum­

niating his brethren; and his chief fear was, lest his father should

alter his mind and entertain a more favourable opinion of the

sons of Mariamne; and as he had this in his mind he did not

desist from his purpose, but continually sent from Rome any

such stories as he hoped might grieve and irritate his father

against his brethren, under pretence indeed of a deep concern for

his preservation, but in truth, such as his malicious mind dictated,

in order to purchase a greater hope of the succession, which yet

was already great in itself; and thus he did till he hadexcitedsuch

a degree of anger in Herod, that he was already become very ill

disposed towards the young men; but still, while he delayed to

exercise so violent a disgust against them, and that he might not

either be too remiss, or too rash, and so offend, he thought it best

to sail to Rome, and there accuse his sons before Caesar, and not

indulge himself in any such crime as might be heinous enough

to be suspected of impiety; but as he was going up to Rome, it

happened that he made such haste as to meet with Caesar at the *

city Aquilei: So when he came to the speech of Caesai., he ask­

ed for a time for hearing this great cause, wherein he thought

* Although Herod met Augustus at Aquilei, yet was this accusation of his sons  
deferred till they came to Rome, as sect. 3. assures, and as we are
particularly in­

formed in the history of the War, B. I. ch. xxiii. sect. 3. voL III. though
what he here

says belonged distinctly to Alexander the elder brother. I mean his being
brought

to Rome, is here justly extended to both the brothers, and that not only in
our

copies, but that in Zonoras also: nor is there reason to doubt but they were
both

at this solemn hearing of Augustus, although the defence was made by Alexander

(lone, who was the eldest brother, and one that could speak very well.

