Chap. IV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 259

Pompey gave him leave to do; and this he did two or three

times, as flattering himself with the hopes of having the king­

dom granted him; so that he still pretended he would obey Pom­

pey in whatsoever he commanded, although at the same time he

retired to his fortress, that he might not depress himself too Ipw,

and that he might be prepared for a war, in case it should prove

as he feared, that Pompey should transfer the government to Hyr-

canus. But when Pompey enjoined Aristobulus to deliver up

the fortresses he held, and to send an injunction to their govern­

ors under his own hand, for that purpose, for they had been

forbidden to deliver them up upon any other commands, he sub­

mitted indeed to do so, but still he retired in displeasure to Je­

rusalem, and made preparation for war. A little after this,

certain persons came out of Pontus, and informed Pompey, as

he was on the way, and conducting his army against Aristobu­

lus, that Mithridates was dead, and was slain by his son Phar-

naces.

CHAP. IV.

Hffso Pompey, when the citizens of Jerusalem shift the gates

against him, besieged the city, and took it by force,- as also

isihat other things he did in Judea.

..go

§ 1. jNow when Pompey had pitched his camp at Jericho,

(where the * palm-tree grows, and that balsam which is an oint­

ment of all the most precious, which upon any incision made

in the wood with a sharp stone, distils out thence like a juice,)

he marched in the morning to Jerusalem. Hereupon Aristo­

bulus repented of what he was doing, and came to Pompey,

and [promised to] give him money, and received him into Je­

rusalem, and desired that he would leave off the war, and do

what he pleased peaceably. So Pompey, upon his entreaty, for­

gave him: and sent Gabinius, and soldiers with him, to receive

the money and the city: Yet was no part of this performed, but

* These expres* testimonies of Josephus' here, and Antiq. B. VIII. chap. vi. sect.  
6. vol. I. and B. XV. chap. iv. sect. 2. vol. II. that the only balsam
gardens, and

the best palm-trees, were, at least in his days, near Jericho and Engaddi,
about the

north part of the dead sea (whereabout also Alexander the Great saw the balsam
drop,)

show the mistake of those that understand Eusebius and Jerom, as if one of
those

gardens were at the sou'h part of that sea, at Zoar or Segor, whereas they
must either

mean another Zoar or Segor, which was between Jericho and Engaddi, agreeably
to<

Josephus, which yet they do not appear to do, or else they directly contradict
Jose*

phus, and were therein greatly mistaken; unless that balsam and the best palm-
trees,

grew much more southward in Judea in the days of Eusebius and Jerom than they

did in the days of Josephus

VOL. II. K. K. 23

