Chap. X. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 415

CHAP. X.

How Eurycles falsely accused Herod's sons ', and hc/w their father

bound them and wrote to Caesar about them. Of Sylleus, and

how he was accused by Nicolaus.

J 1. IKE disorders about Herod's family and children

about this time grew much worse; for it now appeared certain,

nor was it unforeseen beforehand, that fortune threatened the

Greatest and most insupportable misfortunes possible to his

ingdom. Its progress and augmentation at this time arose on

the occasion following: One Eurycles, a Lacedemonian, (a per足

son of note there, but a man of a perverse mind, and so cunning

in his ways of voluptuousness and flattery, as to indulge both,

and yet seem to indulge neither of them,) came in his travels to

Herod, and made him presents, but so that he received more

presents from him. He also took such proper seasons for in足

sinuating himself into his friendship, that he became'one of

the most intimate of the king's friends. He had his lodging in

Antipater's house; but he had not only access, but free conver足

sation with Alexander, as pretending to him that he was in great

favour with Archelaus, the king of Cappadocia; whence he

pretended much respect to Glaphyra, and, in an occult manner,

cultivated a friendship with them all, but always attending to

what was said and done, that he might be furnished with ca足

lumnies to please them all. In short, he behaved himself so to

every body in his conversation, as to appear to be his particular

friend, and he made others believe that his being any where was

for that person's advantage. So he won upon Alexander, who

was but young; and persuaded him, that he might open his

grievances to him with assurance, and with nobody else. So he

declared his grief to him, how his father was alienated from

him. He related to him also the affairs of his mother, and of

Antipater; that he had driven them from their proper dignity,

and had the power over every thing himself; that no part of

this was tolerable, since his father was already come to hate

them; and he added, that he would neither admit them to his

table, nor to his conversation. Such were the complaints, as

was but natural, of Alexander, about the things that troubled

him: and these discourses Eurycles carried to Antipater; and

told him, he did not inform him of this on his own account, but

that, being overcome by his kindness, the great importance of

the thing obliged him to do it: and he warned him to have a

care of Alexander, for that what he said was spoken with ve-

hemency, and that, in consequence of what he said, he would

certainly kill him with his own hand. Whereupon Antipater,

