Chap. XI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS

three intervals for walking in the middle of this cloister; two

of which walks were made parallel to each other, and were con足

trived after the same manner ; the breadth of each of them was

thirty feet, the length was a furlong, and the height fifty feet,

but the breadth of the middle part of the cloister was one and

a half of the other, and the heig-ht was double, for it was much

higher than those on each side; but the roofs were adorned with

deep sculptures in wood, representing many sorts of figures:

the middle was much higher than the rest, and the wall of the

front was adorned with beams, resting upon pillars that were

interwoven into it, and that front was all of polished stone; inT

somuch, that its fineness, to such as had not seen it, was incred足

ible, and to such as had seen it, was greatly amazing. Thus

was the first enclosure, in the midst of which, and not far from,

it, was the second, to be gone up to by a few steps; this, was

encompassed by a stone wall for a partition, with an inscription,

'which forbade any foreigner to go in under pain of death. Now,

this inner enclosure had on its southern and northern quarters

three gates [equally] distant one from another; but on the east

quarter, towards the sunrising, there was one large gate,

through which such as were pure came in, together with their

'wives, but the temple farther inward in that gate was not

allowed to the women; but still more inward was there a third-

[court of the] temple, whereinto it was not lawful for any but

the priests alone to enter. The temple itself was within this;

and before that temple was the altar, upon which we offer

our sacrifices and burnt-offerings to God. Into * none of these

three did king Herod enter, for he was forbidden, because he

was not a priest. However, he took care of the cloisters, and

the outer enclosures, and these he built in eight years.

6. But the temple itself was built by the priests in a year and

six months: upon which all the people were full of joy; and

presently they returned thanks, in the first place to God, and

in the next place, for the alacrity the king had showed. They

feasted, and celebrated this rebuilding of the temple: And for

the king, he sacrificed three hundred oxen to God, as did the

rest, every one according to his ability; the number of which

sacrifices is not possible to be set down, for it cannot be that we

should truly relate it: for at the same time with this celebra足

* Into none of these three Aid king Herod enter, i. e. 1. Not into Ihe court of  
the priests; 2. nor into the holy house itself; 3. nor into the separate place
be.

longing to the altar, as the words following imply, for none but priests, or
their

attendants, the Levites, might come into any of them. See Antiq. B. XVJ. ch.

iv. sect. 6. when Herod goes into the temple, and makes a speech in it to the
peo足

ple, but that could only be into the court of Israel, whither Uie people could
come

to hear him.

