88 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book IX.

omitting the utmost instances of cruelty and barbarity; for he

used such severity upon his own countrymen, as would not be

pardonable with regard to strangers, who had been conquered

by him. And after this manner it was that this Menahem con­

tinued to reign with cruelty and barbarity for ten years: But

when Pul, king of Assyria, had made an expedition against him,

he did not meet to fight or engage in battle with the Assyrians,

but he persuaded him to accept of a thousand talents of silver,

and to go away, and so put an end to the war. This sum the

multitude collected for Menahem, by * exacting fifty drachmae

as poll money for every head: after which he died, and was

buried in Samaria, and left his son Pekahiah his successor in

the kingdom, who followed the barbarity of his father, and so

ruled but two years only, after which he was slain with his

friends at a feast, by the treachery of one Peknh, the general of

his horse, and the son of Remaliah, who laid snares for him.

Now this Pekah held the government twenty years, and proved

a wicked man, and a transgressor. But the king of Assyria,

whose name was Tiglath-Pilcser, when he had made an expedi­

tion against the Israelites, and had" overrun all the land of Gi-

lead, and the region beyond Jordan, and the adjoining country,

which is called- Galilee, and Kadesh and Hazor, he made the in­

habitants prisoners, and transplanted them into his own king­

dom. And so much shall suffice to have related here concerning

the king of Assyria.

2. Now Jotham the son of Uzziah, reigned over the tribe of Ju-

dah in Jerusalem, being a citizen thereof by his mother, whose

name was Jerusha. This king was not defective in any virtue,

but was religious towards God, and righteous towards men, and

careful of the good of the city, (for what parts soever wanted to

be repaired or adorned, he magnificently repaired and adorned

them.) He also took care of the foundations of the cloisters in

the temple, and repaired the walls that were fallen down, and

built very great towers, and such as were almost impregnable;

and if any thing else in his kingdom had been neglected, he took

great care of it. He also made an expedition against the Ammon­

ites, and overcame them in battle, and ordered them to pay

* Dr. Wall in hk critical notes on 2 Kings xv. 20. observes, "That when  
this Menahem is said to have exacted the money of Israel of all the mighty

'men of wealth, of each man 50 shekels of silver, to give Pul, the king of
Assy-

'ria 1000 talents, this is the first public money raised by any [Israelite]
king by

'tax on the people; that they used before to raise it out of the treasures <A

'the house of the Lord, or of their own house; that it was a poll money on the

'rich men [and them only] to raise £353,000, or as others count a talent

'£400,000 at the rate of £6 or £7 per head; and that God commanded, by Eze-

'kiel, chap. xlv. 8. and xlvi. 18. that no such thing should be done fat the
Jews

"restoration,] but the king should hare land of his own."

