40 ANTIQUITIES OP THE JEWS. Book IX.

also of the same sort. Now as he was going on in this mad course,

Rezin, the king of Syria and Damascus, and Pekah the king ot

Israel, who were now at amity one with another, made war with

him; and when they had driven him into Jerusalem, they besieg­

ed that city a long while, making but a small progress, on ac­

count of the strength of its walls: and when the king of Syria

had taken the city Elath, upon the Red Sea, and had slain the

inhabitants, he peopled it with Syrians, and when he had slain

those in the [other] garrisons, and the Jews in their neighbour­

hood, and had driven away much prey, he returned with his ar­

my back to Damascus. Now when the king of Jerusalem knew

that the Syrians were returned home, he supposing himself a

match for the king of Israel, drew out his army against him, and

joining battle with him was beaten; and this happened because

God was angry with him, on account of his many and great

enormities. Accordingly, there was slain by the Israelites one

hundred and twenty thousand of his men that day, whose gene­

ral, Amaziah by name, slew Zechariah the king's son in his con­

flict with Ahaz, as well as the governor of the kingdom, whose

name was Azricam. He also carried Elcanah, the general of

the troops of the tribe of Judah, into captivity. They also car­

ried the women and children of the tribe of Benjamin captives;

and when they had gotten a great deal of prey, they returned to

Samaria.

2. Now there was one Obed, who was a prophet at that time

in Samaria, he met the army before the city walls, and with a

loud voice told them, " that they had gotten the victory not by

"their own strength, but by reason of the anger Godhad against

"king Ahaz. And he complained, that they were not satisfied

"with the good success they had against him, but were so

"bold as to make captives out of their kinsmen the tribe of Ju-

"dah and Benjamin. He also gave them counsel to let them go

"home without doing them any harm, for that if they did not

"obey God herein, they should be punished." So the people of

Israel came together to their assembly, and considered of these

matters, when a man whose name was Berechiah, and who was

one of chief reputation in the government, stood up, and three

others with him, and said, " We will not suffer the citizens to

"bring these prisoners into the city, lest we all be destroyed by

"God: we have sins enough of our own that we have commit-

"ted against him, as the prophets assure us; nor ought we

"therefore to introduce the practice of new crimes." When

the soldiers heard that, they permitted them to do what they

thought best. So the forenamed man took the captives and let

them go, and took care of them, and gave them provisions, and

sent them to.their own country, without doing them any harm.

