IX. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 181

"nation, and this because their sufferings were occasioned on

"his father's account, while they left the religious worship of

"their fathers, and preferred that which he had commanded

"them to follow: that there was danger lest the citadel, and

"those appointed to garrison it by the king, should be taken

"by Judas, and those that were with him, unless he would

"send them succours." When Antiochus, who was but a

child, heard this, he was angry, and sent for his captains, and

his friends, and gave order, that they should get an army of

mercenaries together, with such men also of his own kingdom

as were of any age fit for war. Accordingly, an army was col­

lected of about a hundred thousand footmen, and twenty thou­

sand horsemen, and thirty-two elephants.

4. So the king took his army, and marched hastily out of

Antioch, with Lysias, who had the command of the whole, and

came to Idumea, and thence went up to the city Bethsura, a

city that was strong, and not to be taken without great difficulty;

be set about this city, and besieged it. And while the inhabitants

of Bethsura courageously opposed him; and sallied out upon him,

and burnt his engines of war, a great deal of time was spent

in the siege. But when Judas heard of the king's coming, he

raised the siege of the citadel, and met the king, and pitched his

camp in certain straits, at a place called Bethzachariah, at the

distance of seventy furlongs from the enemy; but the king soon

drew his forces from Bethsura, and brought them to those straits.

And as soon as it was day, he put his men in battle array, and

made his elephants follow one another through the narrow passes,

because they could not be set sideways by one another. Now

round about every elephant there were a thousand footmen, and

five hundred horsemen. The elephants also had high towers

[upon their backs], and archers [in them]. And he also made

the rest of his army to go up the mountains, and put his friends

before the rest; and gave orders for the army to shout aloud,

and so he attacked the enemy. He also exposed to sight their

golden and brazen shields, so that a glorious splendour was sent

from them; and when they shouted, the mountains echoed

again. When Judas saw this, he was not terrified, but received

we enemy with great courage, and slew about six hundred of the

first ranks. But when his brother Eleazar, whom they called

Auran, saw the tallest of the elephants armed with royal

breast-plates, and supposed that the king was upon him, he at­

tacked him with great quickness and bravery. He also slew

Many of those that were about the elephant, and scattered the

rest, and then went under the belly of the elephant, and smote

torn, and slew him; so the elephant fell upon Eleazar, and by

iiis weight crushed him to death. And thus did this man come

