80 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book X.

"it a branch of his own kingdom; but about that time it happen-

"ed, that his father Nebuchodonosor [Nabopollassar] fell ill, and

"ended his life in the city Babylon, when he had reigned

"* twenty-one years; and when he was made sensible, as he was

"in a little time, Jthat his father Nebuchodonosor [Nabopollas-

"sar] was dead, and having settled the affairs of Egypt, and the

"other countries, as also those that concerned the captive Jews

"and Phoenicians, .and Syrians, and those of the Egyptian

"nations, and having committed the conveyance of them to

". Babylon to certain of his friends, together with the gross of

"his army, and the rest of their ammunition and provisions,

"he went himself hastily, accompanied with a few others,

"over the desert, and came to Babylon. So he took upon him

"the management of public affairs, and of the kingdom which

"had been kept for him by one that was the principal of the

"Chaldeans, and he received the entire dominions of his father,

<{ and appointed, that when the captives came, they should be

"placed as colonies, in the most proper places of Babylonia:

"but then he adorned the temple of Belus, and the rest of the

"temples, in a magnificent manner, with the spoils he had taken

41 in war. He also added another city to that which was there

"of old, and rebuilt it, that such as would besiege it hereafter

"might no more turn the course of the river, and thereby attack

"the city itself: He therefore built three walls round about the

"inner city, apd three others about that which was the outer,

"and this he did with burnt brick. And after he had, after a

"becoming manner, walled the city, and adorned its gates glo-

"riously, he built another palace before his father's palace, but

"so that they joined to it; to describe whose vast height, and

"immense riches, it would perhaps be too much for me to at-

"tempt; yet as large and lofty as they were, they .were com-

"pleted in j- fifteen days. He also erected elevated places for

* These 21 years here ascribed to one named Kaboulasser in the first book against  
Apion, or to Nabopollassar, the father of the great Nebuchadnezzar, are also
the

very same with those given him in Ptolemy's canon. And note here, that what
Dr.

Prideaux says, at the year 612, that Nebuchadnezzar must have been a common

name of the other kings of Babylon, besides the great Nebuchadnezzar himself,
is

a groundless mistake of some modern chronologers only, and destitute of all
proper

original authority.

f These fifteen days for finishing such vast buildings at Babylon, in
Josephus'

copy of Berosus, would seem too absurd to be supposed to be the true number,
were

it not for the same testimony extant also in the first book against Apion, §.
19. with

the same number. It thence indeed appears, that Josephus' copy of Berosus had
this

small number, but that it is the- true number I still doubt . Josephus assures

us, that the walls of so much a smaller city as Jerusalem were two years and
four

months in building by Nchcmiah, who yet hastened the work all he could, Antiq.

B. XI. chap. v. sect. 8. I should think 115 days, or a year and 15 days, much
mor«

proportionable to so great a work.

