244 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIII.

as they had done ten thousand other things that tended to affront

and reproach him. However this barbarity seems to have been

without any necessity, on which account he bare the name of a

Thraciun * among the Jews; whereupon the soldiers that had

fougkt against him, being about eight thousand in number, ran

away by night, and continued fugitives all the time that Alexan­

der lived; who being now freed from any farther disturbance from

them, reigned the rest of his time in the utmost tranquillity.

3. But when Demetrius was departed out of Judea, he went

to Berea, and besieged his brother Philip, having with him ten

thousand footmen, and a thousand horsemen. However Strato

the tyrant of Berea, the confederate of Philip, called in Zizon,

the ruler of the Arabian tribes, and Mithridates Sinax, the ru­

ler of the Parthians, who coming with a great number offerees

and besieging Demetrius in his encampment, into which they

had driven him with their arrows, they compelled those that

were with him by thirst to deliver up themselves. So they took

a great many spoils out of that country, and Demetrius himself,

whom they sent to Mithridates, who was then king of Parthia;

but as to those whom they took captives of the people of Anti-

och, they restored them to the Antiochians without any reward.

Now Mithridates, the king of Parthia, had Demetrius in great

honour, till Demetrius ended his life by sickness. So Philip,

presently after the fight was over, came to Antioch, and took

it, and reigned over Syria.

CHAP. XV

Hem Antiochus, who leas called Dionysus, and after him Aretas,

made expeditions into Judea ,' as also how Alexander took

many cities, and then returned to Jerusalem, and after a sick­

ness of three years died; and what counsel he gave to Alexandra.

§ 1. AFTER this Antiochus, who was called f Dionysus

and was Philip's brother, aspired to the dominion, and came

to Damascus, and got the power into his hands, and there he

reigned: but as he was making war against the Arabians, his

brother Philip heard of it, and came to Damascus, where Mile-

sius, who had been left governor of the citadel, and the Damas-

cens themselves, delivered up the city to him; yet because Phi­

lip was become ungrateful to him, and had bestowed upon him

* This name T/iractda, which the Jews gave Alexander, must by the coherence,  
denote as barbarous as a Xhracian, or somewhat like it; but what it properly
sig­

nifies is not known.

f Spanheim takes notice, that this Antioehus Dionysus (the brother of Philip,

and of Demetrius Eucerus, and of two others) was the fifth son of Antiochus

Grypus; and that he is styled on the coins Antiachvs F./iiphunes Dionyius.

