Chop. VI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 21

and added withal that he was mad: he replied, you guess right,

for the words he spake were the words of a madman: and when

they were e^ger about the matter, and desired he would tell them,

he answered, that God had said, he had chosen him to be king

"over the multitude." When he had said this, every one of

them * put off his garment, and strewed it under him, and blew

with trumpets, and gave notice, that Jehu was king. So when

he had gotten the army together, he was preparing to set out im足

mediately against Joram, at the city Jezreel, in which city, as we

said before, he was healing of the wound which he had received

in the siege of Ramoth. It happened also that Ahaziah, king of

Jerusalem, was now come to Joram, for he was his sister's son,

as we have said already, to see how he did after his wound, and

this upon account of their kindred; but as Jehu was desirous to

fall upon Joram and those with him on the sudden, he desired that

none of the soldiers might run away and tell to Joram what had

happened, for that this would be an evident demonstration of

their kindness to him, and would show that their real inclinations

were to make him king.

3. So they were pleased with what he did, and guarded the

roads, lest somebody should privately tell the thing to those that

were at Jezreel. Now Jehu took his choice horsemen, and sat

upon his chariot, and went on for Jezreel, and when he was come

near, the watchman whom Joram had sent there to spy out such

as came to the city, saw Jehu marching on, and told Joram that

he saw a troop of horsemen marching on. Upon which he

immediately gave orders, that one of his horsemen should be

sent out to meet them, and to know who it was that was com足

ing. So when the horseman came up to Jehu, he asked him,

m what condition the army was? for that the king wanted to

know it; but Jehu bid him not at all to meddle with such mat足

ters, but to follow him. When the watchman saw this, he told

Joram that the horseman had mingled himself among the com足

pany, and came along with them. And when the king had sent

a second messenger, Jehu commanded him to do as the former

did; as soon as the watchman told this also to Joram, he at last

got upon his chariot himself, together with Ahaziah, the king

of Jerusalem; for, as we said before, he was there to see how

Joram did, after he had been wounded, as being his relation.

So he went out to meet Jehu, who marched j- slowly, and in

* Spanheim bere notes that this putting off men's garments and strewing them  
under a king, was an eastern custom, which he elsewhere explained.

t Our copies say, that this "driving of the chariots was like the driving of

'' Jehu the son of Nimshi, for he driveth furiously," 2 Kings ix. SO. whereas

Josephus' copy, as he understood it, was this, trtat, on the contrary, Jehu

marched slowly and in good order. Nor can it be denied, that since there was

mterval enough for king Jor,im, to send out two horsemen, one after another,

