Chap. Vil. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 851

ly impossible, who are still more ready to lose their lives than

to leave off that divine worship which they have been wont

to pay unto God. Alexandra, therefore, discoursed with those

that had the keeping of these strongholds, that it was proper

for them to deliver the same to her, and to Herod's sons, lest,

upon his death, any other person should seize upon the go­

vernment; and that upon his recovery none could keep them

more safely for him than those of his own family. These words

were not by them at all taken in good part; and as they had been

in former times faithful [to Herod,] they resolved to continue

so more than ever, both because they hated Alexandra, and be­

cause they thought it a sort of impiety to despair of Herod's re­

covery while he was yet alive, for they had been his old friends;

and one of them, whose name was Achiabus, was his cousin-ger-

man. They sent messengers therefore to acquaint him with

Alexandra's design; so he made no longer delay, but gave or­

ders to have her slain: yet was it still with difficulty, and after

he had endured great pain, that he got clear of his distemper.

He was still sorely afflicted both in mind and body, and made

very uneasy, and readier than ever upon all occasions to inflict

punishment upon those that fell under his hand. He also slew

the most intimate of his friends, Costobarus, and Lysimachus,

and Gadias, who was also called Antipater; as also Dositheus,

and that upon the following occasion.

9. Costobarus was an Idumean by birth, and one of principal £, /

dignity among them, and one whose ancestors had been priestsX.

to the Kose, whom the Idumeans had [formerly] esteemed as a/

god; but after Hyrcanus had made a change in their political

government, and made them receive the Jewish customs, and

law, Herod madeCostobarus governojiof Idumeaand Gaza, and

wife; and this was upon his slaugh­

ter of [his uncle] Joseph, whoJiadjhaLgQyernment before, as

we have relateoTalreadyT Wtren Costobarus had gotten to be so

highly advanced, it pleased him, and was more than he hoped

for, and he was more and more puffed up by his good success,

and in a little while he exceeded all bounds, and did not think

fit to obey what Herod as their ruler, commanded him, or that

the Idumeans should make use of the Jewish customs, or be sub­

ject to them. He therefore sent to Cleopatra, and informed her

that the Idumeans had been always under his progenitors, and

that for the same reason it was but just that she should desire that

country for him of Antony, for that he was ready to transfer his

friendship to her; and this he did, not because he was better

pleased to be under Cleopatra's government, but because he

thought that, upon the diminution of Herod's power, it would

not be difficult for him to obtain himself the entire government

