202 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIII-

brought him, and sailed to Cilicia. This thing cast Alexander

into great concern and disorder when he heard it; so he made

haste immediately out of Phenicia and came to Antioch, that he

might put matters in a safe posture there before Demetrius

should come. He also left * Apollonius Daus governor of Ce-

lesyria, who coming to Jamnia with a great army, sent to Jona­

than the high priest, and told him, That "it was not right that

"he alone should live at rest, and with authority, and not be

"subject to the king; and this thing had made him a reproach

"among all men, that he had not yet made him subject to the

"king. Do not thou therefore deceive thyself, and sit still

"among the mountains, and pretend to have forces with thee:

"but if thou hast any dependance on thy strength, come down

"into the plain, and let our armies be compared together, and

"the event of the battle will demonstrate which of us is the

"most courageous. However, take notice, that the most va-

." liant 'men of every city are in my army, and that these are

"the very men vrho have always beaten thy progenitors; but let

"us have the battle in such a place of the country where we may

"fight with weapons, and not with stones, and where there may

"be no place whither those that are beaten may fly."

4. With this Jonathan was irritated; and choosing himself

out ten thousand of his soldiers, he went out of Jerusalem in

haste with his brother Simon, and came to Joppa, and pitched

his camp on the outside of the city, because the people of Joppa

had shut their gates against him, for they had a garrison in

the city put there by Apollonius; but when Jonathan was pre­

paring to besiege them, they were afraid he would take them

by force, and so they opened the gates to him. But Apollonius,

when he heard that Joppa was taken by Jonathan, took three

thousand horsemen, and eight thousand footmen, and came to

Ashdod, and removing thence, he made his journey silently and

slowly, and going up to Joppa, he made as if he was retiring

from the place, and so drew Jonathan into the plain, as valuing

himself highly upon his horsemen, and having his hopes of vic­

tory principally in them. However, Jonathan sallied out, and

pursued Apollonius to Ashdod; but as soon as Apollonius per­

ceived that his enemy was in the plain, he came back and gave

him battle: but Apollonius had laid a thousand horsemen in am­

bush in a valley, that they might not be seen by their enemies as

* Of tlic several Ajiollonu about these ages, see Dean Prideaux at tlic year 148.  
This Apollonius Daus was, by his account, the son of that Apollonius who had
been

made governor of Celesyria and Phenicia by Scleucus Philopator, and was
himself a

confident of his son Demetrius the father, and restored to his father's
government by

him, but afterwards revolted from him to Alexander, but not to Demetrius the
son,

as he supposes.

