230 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIII.

4. Now it happened at this time, that not only those Jews who

were at Jerusalem and in Judea were in prosperity, but also

those of them that were at Alexandria, and in Egypt and Cyprus,

for Cleopatra the queen was at variance with her son Ptolemy,

who was called Lathyrus, and appointed for her generals Chel-

cias, and Ananias, the sons of that Onias who built the temple

in the prefecture of Heliopolis, like to that at Jerusalem, as we

have elsewhere related. Cleopatra intrusted these men with

her army; and did nothing without their advice, as Strabo of

Capadocia attests, when he saith thus, " Now the greater part,

"both those that came to Cyprus with us, and those that were

"sent afterward thither, revolted to Ptolemy immediately; only

"those that were called Onias' party, being Jews, continued

"faithful, because their countrymen Chelcias and Ananias were

"in chief favour with the queen." These are the words of

Strabo.

5. However, this prosperous state of affairs moved the Jews to

envy Hyrcanus, but they that were the worst disposed to him

were the * Pharisees, who were one of the sects of the Jews, as

we have informed you already. These have so great a power

over the multitude, that when they say any thing against the

king, or against the high priest, they are presently believed.

Now Hyrcanus was a disciple of theirs, and greatly beloved by

them. And when he once invited them to a feast, and entertained

them very kindly, when he saw them in a good humour, he be­

gan to say to them, that "they knew he was desirous to be a

"righteous man, and to do all things whereby he might please

"God, which was the profession of the Pharisees also. How-

"ever, he desired, if they observed him offending in any point,

"and going out of the right way, they would call him back and

"correct him." On which occasion they attested to his being

entirely virtuous, with which commendation he was well pleas­

ed. But still there was one of his guests there, whose name was

* The original of the Sadducees, as a considerable party among the Jews, being  
contained in this, and the two following sections, take Oean Frideaux's note
upon

this their first public appearance, which I suppose to be true: Hyrcanus, says
he,

"went over to the party of the Sadducees, that is, by embracing the doctrine
against

"the tradition of the elders, added to the written law, and made of equal
authority

"with it, but not their doctrine against the resurrection and a future state,
for this

"cannot be supposed of so good and righteous a man as John Hyrcanus is said to

'be. It is most probable, that at this time the Sadducees had gone no farther
in

'the doctrines of that sect than to deny all the unwritten traditions, which
the

'Pharisees were so fond of; for Josephus mentions no other difference at this

* time between them; neither doth he say that Hyrcanus went over to the Saddu-  
'cees in any other particular than in the abolishing of all the traditionary
con-

'stitutions of the Pharisees, which our Saviour condemned as well as they."—

[At the year 108,]

