Chap. VI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 265

cils governed the people; the first was at Jerusalem, the second

at Gadara, the third at Amathus, the fourth at Jericho, and the

fifth in Sepphoris in Galilee. So the Jews were now freed

from monarchic authority, and were governed by an * aristo­

cracy.

CHAP. VL

How Gabinius caught Aristobulus after he had Jled from Rome,

and sent him back to Borne again; and how the same Gabinius,

as he returned out of Egypt, overcame Alexander and the Na-

bateans in battle.

5 1. .N ow Aristobulus ran away from Rome to Judea, and

set about the rebuilding of Alexandrium, which had been

newly demolished: Hereupon Gabinius sent soldiers against him,

and for their commanders Sisenna, and Antonius, and fc'ervil-

ius, in order to hinder him from getting possession of the

country, and to take him again. And indeed many of the Jews

ran to Aristobulus, on account of his former glory, as also be­

cause they should be glad of an innovation. Now, there was one

Pitholaus, a lieutenant at Jerusalem, who deserted to him with a

thousand men, although a great number of those that came to

him were unarmed ; and when Aristobulus had resolved to go to

Macherus, he dismissed those people, because they were un­

armed, for they could not be useful to him in what actions they

'were going about, but he took with him eight thousand that

were armed, and marched on: and as the Romans fell upon them

severely, the Jews fought valiantly, but were beaten in the bat­

tle and when they had fought with alacrity, but were over­

borne by the enemy, they were put to flight; of whom were

slain about five thousand, and the rest being dispersed, tried as

well as they were able, to save themselves. However, Aristo­

bulus had with him still above a thousand, and with them he>

fled to Macherus and fortified the place, and though he had had

ill success, he still had good hope of his affairs: but when he had

struggled against the siege for two days' time, and had received

many wounds, he was brought as a captive to Gabinius, with

his son Antigonius, who also fled with him from Rome. And

this was the fortune of Aristobulus, who was sent back again

to Rome, and was there retained in bonds, having been both

king and high priest for three years and six months; and was

* Dean Prideaux well observes, " That notwithstanding the clamour against  
"Gabiuius at Rome, Josephus gives him a laudable character, as if he had ac-

"quitted himself with honour in the charge committed to him," [in Judea,]

Sec at the year 55.

