414 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVI.

the Arabians, who had pillaged their country, and were more

rigid in their unjust proceedings, not only in order to get by it,

but by way of revenge also.

4. Now Herod was forced to bear all this, that confidence of

his being quite gone with which Caesar's favour used to inspire

him; for Caesar would not admit so much as an embassage from

him to make an apology for him: and when they came again,

he sent them away without success: so he was cast into sadness

and fear; and Sylleus' circumstances grieved him exceedingly,

who was now believed by Caesar, and was present at Rome, nay,

sometimes aspiring higher. Now it came to pass that Obodas

was dead: and Eneas, whose name was afterwards changed to

* Aretas, took the government, for Sylleus endeavoured by ca­  
lumnies to get him turned out of his principality, that he might

himself take it; with which design he gave much money to the

courtiers, and promised much money to Caesar, who indeed was

angry that Aretas had not sent to him first before he took the

kingdom, yet did Eneas send an epistle and presents to Caesar,

and a golden crown, of the weight of many talents. Now that

epistle accused Sylleus as having been a wicked servant, and hav­

ing killed Obodas by poison; and that while he was alive, he

had governed him as he pleased; and had also debauched the

wives of the Arabians; and had borrowed money, in order to

obtain the dominion for himself: yet did not Caesar give heed

to these accusations, but sent his ambassadors back, without re­

ceiving any of his presents: but in the meantime the affairs of

Judea and Arabia became worse and worse, partly because of the

anarchy they were under, and partly because, as bad as they

were, nobody had power to govern them, for of the two kings,

the one was not yet confirmed in his kingdom, and so had not

authority sufficient to restrain the evil doers; and as for Herod,

Caesar was immediately angry at him, for having avenged him­

self, and so he was compelled to bear all the injuries that were

offered him. At length, when he saw no end of the mischief

which surrounded him, he resolved to send ambassadors to Rome

again, to see whether his friends had prevailed to mitigate Cae­

sar, and to address themselves to Caesar himself: and the am­

bassador he sent thither was Nicolaus of Damascus.

* This Aretas was now become so established a name for the kings of Arabia,  
[ at Petra, and Damascus,] that when the crown came to this Eneas, he changed
his

name to Gretas, as Harercamp here justly observes. See Antiq. B. XIII. ch, xv.

Met, 2. vol. II.

