Chap. VII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 349

the fortresses belonging to the kingdom; but Salome and her

party laboured hard to have the woman put to death; and they

prevailed with the king to do so, and advised this out of cau­

tion, lest the multitude should be tumultuous if she were suf­

fered to live; and thus was Mariamne led to execution.

5. When Alexandra observed how things went, and that there

were small hopes that >he herself should escape the like treat­

ment from Herod, she changed her behaviour to quite the reverse

of what might have been expected from her former boldness, and

this after a very indecent manner: for out of her desire to show

how entirely ignorant she was of the crimes laid against Mari­

amne, she leaped out of her place, and reproached her daughter

in the hearing of all the people: and cried out, That " she had

"been an ill woman and ungrateful to her husband, and that

"her punishment came justly upon her, for such her insolent

"behaviour, for that she had not made proper returns to him

"who had been their common benefactor." And when she

had for some time acted after this hypocritical manner, and been

so outrageous as to tear her hair, this indecent and dissembling

behaviour, as was to be expected, was greatly condemned by the

rest of the spectators, as it was principally by the poor woman

who was to suffer; for at the first she gave her not a word, nor

was discomposed at her peevishness, and only looked at her, yet

did she, out of a greatness of soul, discover her concern for her

mother's offence, and especially for her exposing herself in a man­

ner so unbecoming her; but as for herself, she went to her death

with an unshaken firmness of mind, and without changing the

colour of her face, and thereby evidently discovered the nobil­

ity of her descent to the spectators, even in the last moments

of her life.

6. And thus died Mariamne; a woman of an excellent char­

acter, both for chastity and greatness of soul; but she wanted

moderation, and had too much of contention in her nature, yet

had she all that can be said in the beauty of her body, and her

majestic appearance in conversation; and thence arose the great­

est part of the occasions why she did not prove so agreeable to

the king, nor live so pleasantly with him, as she might otherwise

have done; for while she was most indulgently used by the king^

out of his fondness to her, and did not expect that he could do

any hard thing to her, she took too unbounded a liberty. More­

over, that which most afflicted her was, what he had done to hei

relations, and she ventured to speak of all they had suffered by

him, fand at last greatly provoked both the king's mother and

sister, till they became enemies to her) and even he himself also

did the same, on whom alone she depended for her expectations

of escaping the last of punishments.

