204 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIII.

golden button, which it is the custom to give the king's kins­

men; and allowed him Ekron, and its toparchy, for his own

inheritance.

5. About this time it was that king Ptolemy, who was call­

ed Philometer, led an army, part by the sea, and part by land,

and came to Syria, to the assistance of Alexander, who was his

son-in-law; and accordingly all the cities received him willingly,

as Alexander had commanded them to do, and conducted

him as far as Ashdod; where they all made loud complaints

about the temple of Dagon, which was burnt, and accused Jona­

than of having laid it waste, and destroyed the country adjoin­

ing with fire, and slain a great number of them. Ptolemy heard

these accusations, but said nothing. Jonathan also went to meet

Ptolemy as far as Joppa, and obtained from him hospitable pre­

sents, and those glorious in their kinds, with all the marks of

honour. And when he had conducted him as far as the river

called Eleutherus, he returned again to Jerusalem.

6. But as Ptolemy was at Ptolemais, he was very near to a

most unexpected destruction, for a treacherous design was laid

for his life by Alexander, by the means of Ammonius, who was

his friend; and as the treachery was very plain, Ptolemy wrote

to Alexander, and required of him that he should bring Ammo­

nius to condign punishment, informing him what snares had been

laid for him by Ammonius, and desiring thathe might be accord­

ingly punished for it. But when Alexander did not comply

with his demands, he perceived that it was he himself who laid

the design, and was very angry at him. Alexander had also

formerly been in very ill terms with the people of Antioch, for

they had suffered very much by his means; yet did Ammonius

at length undergo the punishment his insolent crimes had deserv­

ed, for he was killed in an opprobrious manner, like a woman,

while he endeavoured to conceal himself in a feminine habit, as

we have elsewhere related.

7. Hereupon Ptolemy blamed himself for having given his

daughter in marriage to Alexander, and for the league he had

made with him to assist him against Demetrius; so he dissolved

his relation to him, and took his daughter away from him, and

immediately sent to Demetrius, and offered to make a league of

mutual assistance and friendship with him, and agreed with him

to give him his daughter in marriage, and to restore him to the

principality of his fathers. Demetrius was well pleased with this

embassage, and accepted of his assistance, and of the marriage

of his daughter. But Ptolemy had still one more hard task to

do, and that was to persuade the people of Antioch to receive

''Dervetrihsj' because they'were greatly displeased at him, on

