Chap. III. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 199

"And many other such things did he prophesy relating to that

"place."

2. And this was what Onias wrote to king Ptolemy. Now

any one may observe his piety, and that of his sister and wife

Cleopatra's, by that epistle which they wrote in answer to it;

for they laid the blame and the transgression of the law upon

the head of Onias. And this was their reply: "King Ptolemy

"and queen Cleopatra to Onias, send greeting: We have read

"thy petition, wherein thou desirest leave to be given thee to

"purge that temple which is fallen down at Leontopolis, in the

"Nomus of Heliopolis, and which is named from the country

"Buhastis; on which account we cannot but wonder that it

"should be pleasing to God to have a temple erected in a

"place so unclean, and so full of sacred animals: But since

"thou sayest that Isaiah the prophet foretold this long ago,

"we give thee leave to do it, if it may be done according to

"vour law, and so that we may not appear to have at all of-

"fended God herein."

3. So Onias took the place, and built a temple, and an altar

to God, like indeed to that in Jerusalem, but smaller and poor足

er. . I do not think it proper for me now to describe its dimen足

sions, or its vessels, which have been already described in my

seventh book of the wars of the Jews. However, Onias found

other Jews like to himself, together with priests and Levites,

that there performed divine service. But we have said enough

about this temple.

4. Now it came to pass that the Alexandrian Jews, and those

Samaritans who paid their worship to the temple that was built

in the days of Alexander at mount Gerizzim, did now make a

sedition one against another, and disputed about their temples

before Ptolemy himself, the Jews saying, that according to the

laws of Moses, the temple was to be built at Jerusalem; and

the Samaritans saying, that it was to be built at Gerizzim.

two or three other copies the Hebrew word itself for the sun, Coheres, or
Thares, is

preserved. And since Onias insists with the king and queen, that Isaiah's
prophecy

contained many other predictions relating to this place, besides the words by
him

recited; it is highly probable that these were especially meant by him; and
that one

main reason why he applied this prediction to himself, and to his prefecture
of He足

liopolis, which Dean Prideaux well proves was in that part of Egypt, and why
he

chose to build in that prefecture of Heliopolis, though otherwise an improper
place,

was this, that the same authority that he had for building this temple in
Egypt, the

very same he had for building it in his own prefecture of Heliopolis also,
which he

desired to do, and which he did accordingly. Dean Frideaux has much ado to

avoid seeing this corruption of the Hebrew, but it being in support of his own
opin足

ion about this temple, be durst not see it; and indeed he reasons here in the
most

ivcviU and injudicious manner possible. See him at the year 149.

