Chap. VII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS, 171

CHAP. VII.

How Judas overthrew the forces of Appollonius and Seron, and

killed the generals of their armies themselves,- and how, when

a little while afterward, Lysias and Gorgias were beaten, he

went up to Jerusalem, and purified the temple.

§ 1. VV HEN Appollonius, the general of the Samaritan for­

ces heard this, he took his army, and made haste to go against

Judas; who met him, and joined battle with him, and beat him,

and slew many of his men, and among them Appollonius

himself, their general, whose sword being that which he hap­

pened to wear, he seized upon, and kept for himself; but he

wounded more than he slew, and took a great deal of prey from

the enemies' camp, and went his way. But when Seron, who

was general of the army of Celesyria, heard that many had join­

ed themselves to Judas, and that he had about him an army suf­

ficient for fighting, and for making war, he determined to make

an expedition against him, as thinking it became him to endea­

vour to punish those that transgressed the king's injunctions. He

then got together an army as large as he was able, and joined it to

the runagate and wicked Jews, and came against Judas. He

came as far as Bethhoron, a village of Judea, and there pitched

his camp: upon which Judas met him; and when he intended to

give him battle, he saw that his soldiers were backward to fight,

because their number was small, and because they wanted food,

for they were fasting, he encouraged them, and said to them, that

"victory and conquest of enemies is not derived from the mul-

"titude in armies, but in the exercise of piety towards God;

"and that they had the plainest instances in their forefathers,

"who by their righteousness, and exerting themselves on behalf

"of their own laws, and their own children, had frequently con-

'; quered many ten thousands, for innocence is the strongest ar-

"my." By this speech he induced his men to contemn the mul­

titude of the enemy, and to fall upon Seron. And upon joining

battle with him, he beat the Syrians; and when their general

fell among the rest, they all run away with speed, as thinking

that to be their best way of escaping. So he pursued them un­

to the plain, and slew about eight hundred of the enemy, but

the rest escaped to the region which lay near to the sea.

2. When king Antiochus heard of these things, he was very

angry at what had happened; so he got together all his own ar-

.*ny, with many mercenaries, whom he had hired from the islands,

and took them with him, and prepared to break into Judea,

about the beginning of the soring. But when, upon his muster-

VOL II. Y 21

