870 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XV.

replies, and gave Manahem his hand, and dismissed him, and from

that time he continued to honour all the Essens. We have

thought it proper to relate these facts to our readers, how strange

soever they be, and to declare what hath happened among us,

because many of the Essens have by their excellent virtue, been

thought worthy of his knowledge of divine revelations.

CHAP. XI.

Haw Herod rebuilt the temple, and raised it higher, and made

it more magnificent than it was before ,' as also concerning that

tower which he called Antonia.

% 1. AND now Herod, in the eighteenth year of his reign,

and after the acts already mentioned, undertook a very great

work, that is, to build of himself the * temple of God, and

made it larger in compass, and to raise it to a most magnificent

altitude, as esteeming it to be the most glorious of all his ac­

tions, as it really was, to bring it to perfection, and this would

be sufficient for an everlasting memorial of him; but as he knew

the multitude were not ready nor willing to assist him in so vast

a design, he thought to prepare them first by making a speech to

them, and then set about the work itself; so he called them to­

gether, and spake thus to them: "I think I need not speak to

"you, my countrymen, about such other works as I have done

"since I came to the kingdom, although I may say they have

"been performed in such a manner as to bring more security

"to you than glory to myself; for I have neither been negligent

"in the most difficult times about what tended to ease your ne-

"cessities, nor have the buildings I have made been so proper to

"preserve me as yourselves from injuries; and I imagine that,

"with God's assistance, I have advanced the nation of the Jews

"to a degree of happiness which they .never had before; and

"for the particular edifices belonging to your own country, and

"your own cities, that we have lately acquired, which we have

"erected and greatly adorned, and thereby augmented the dig-

"nity of your nation, it seems to me a needless task to enume­

* We may here observe, that the fancy of the modern Jews, in calling this  
temple, which was really the third of their temples, the second temple,
follow­

ed so long by later Christians, seems to be without any solid foundation. The

reason why the Christians here followed the Jews, is, because the prophecy of

Haggai ii. C—9. which they expound of ihe Messiah's coming to the second or

Zorobabel's temple, of which they suppose this of Herod's to be only a
continua­

tion, which is meant, I think, of his coming to the/o«r(A and last temple, or
to

that future, largest, and most glorious one, described by Ezekiel: whence 1
take the

former notion, how general soever, to be a great mistake. See Lit. Accomp. of

Troph. p. 24.

