iiOO ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XI11.

They desired therefore the king to sit with his friends, and hear

the debates about these matters, and punish those with death

who were baffled. Now Sabbeus and Theodosius managed the

argument for the Samaritans, and Andronicus the son of Mes-

salamus, for the people of Jerusalem; and they took an oath by

God and the king, to make their demonstrations according to

the law; and they desired of Ptolemy, that whomsoever he

should find that transgressed what they had sworn to, he would

put him to death. Accordingly the king took several of his

friends into the council, and sat down, in order to hear what

the pleaders said. Now the Jews that were at Alexandria were

in great concern for those men; whose lot it was to contend for

the temple at Jerusalem; for they took it very ill that any should

take away the reputation of that temple, which was so ancient,

and so celebrated all over the habitable earth. Now when Sab­

beus and Theodosius had given leave to Andronicus to speak

first, he began to demonstrate out of the law, and out of the

successions of the high priests, how they every one in succession

from his father had received that dignity, and ruled over the

temple; and how all the kings of Asia had honoured that temple

with their donations, and with the most splendid gifts dedicated

thereto: But as for that at Gerizzim, he. made no account of it,

nor regarded it, as if it had never had ateing. By this speech,

and other arguments, Andronicus persuaded the king to * deter­

mine that the temple at Jerusalem was built according to the

laws of Moses, and to put Sabbeus and Theodosius to death.

And these were the events that befell the Jews at Alexandria in

the days of Ptolemy Philometer.

* A very unfair disputation this! while the Jewish disputant, knowing that he  
could not properly prove out of the Pentateuch, that the place which the Lord
their

Cod shall choose t(\ place his name there, so often referred to in the book of
Deuter­

onomy, was Jerusalem any more than Gerizzim, that being not determined till
the

days of David, Autiq. B. VII. ch. xiii. §. 4. vol. I. proves only, what the
Samaritans

did not deny, that the temple at Jerusalem was much more ancient, and much
more

celebrated and honoured than that at Gerizzim, which was nothing to the
present

purpose. The whole evidence, by the very oaths of both parties, being, we see,
ob­

liged to be confined to the law of Moses, or to the Pentateuch alone. However

worldly policy and interest, and the multitude prevailing, the court gave
sentence,

as usual on the stronger side, and poor Sabbeus and Theodosius, the Samaritan
dis­

putants, were martyred, and this so far as appears, without any direct hearing
at all,

which is like the usual practice of such political courts about matters of
religion.

Our copies say, (hat the body of the Jews were in a great concern about those
men

in the plural, who were to dispute for their temple at Jerusalem, whereas it
seems

here they had but one disputant, Andronicus by name: perhaps more were prepar­

ed to speak on the Jews' side; but the first having answered to his name, and
msr-

come the Samaritans, there was no necessity for any other defender of the
Jerusa­

lem temple.

