104 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVL

"mean, when thou really hatest both him and his brother, to

"pretend kindness to them, only in order to raise a reproach

"against me, and talk of such things as no one but such an im-

"pious wretch as thou art could either devise in their mind, or

"declare in their words. Begone, thou that art such a plague

"to thy benefactor, and thy brother, and may that evil con-

"science of thine go along with thee; while I still overcome my

"relations by kindness, and am so far from avenging myself of

"them, as they deserve, that I bestow greater benefits upon

"them than they are worthy of."

5. Thus did the king speak. Whereupon Pheroras, who was

caught in the very act of his villany, said, That " it was Salome

"who was the framer of this plot, and that the words came

"from her." But as soon as she heard that, for she was at hand,

she cried out, like one that would be believed, that no such thing

ever came out of her mouth ; that they all earnestly endeavoured

to make the king hate her, and to make her away, because of

the good-will she bore to Herod, and because she was always fore­

seeing the dangers that were coming upon him, and that at pre­

sent there were more plots against him than usual; for while

she was the only person who persuaded her brother to put away

the wife he now had, and to take the king's daughter, it was

no wonder if she were hated by him. As she said this, and of­

ten tore her hair, and often heather breast, her countenance made

her denial to be believed; but the perverseness of her manners de­

clared at the same time her dissimulation in these proceedings: but

Pheroras was caught between them, and had nothing plausible to

offer in his own defence, while he confessed that he had said what

was charged upon him, but was not believed when he said he had

heard it from Salome: so the confusion among them was increas­

ed, and their quarrelsome words one to another. At last the

king, out of his hatred to his brother and sister, sent them both

away; and when he had commended the moderation of his son,

and that he had himself told him of the report, he went in the

evening to refresh himself. After such a contest as this had

fallen out among them, Salome's reputation suffered greatly,

since she was supposed to have first raised the calumny ; and the

king's wives were grieved at her, as knowing she was a very ill

natured woman, and would sometimes be a friend, and sometimes

an enemy at different seasons: so they perpetually said one

thing or another against her, and somewhat that now fell out

made them the bolder in speaking against her.

6. There was one Obodas, king of Arabia, an inactive and

slothful man in his nature; but Sylleus managed most of his af­

fairs to him. He was a shrewd man, although he was but

young, and was handsome withal. This Sylleus, upon some

