Chap. XIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEW8. 297

son, and Barzaphames, a commander of the Parthians, possessed

themselves of Syria. Ptolemy, the son of Menncus, also was

now dead, and Lysanias his son took his goverment, and made

a league of friendship with Antigonus, the son of Aristobulus;

and in order to obtain it, made use of that commander, who had

great interest in him. Now Antigonus had promised to give the

Parthians athousand talents, and five hundred women, upon con­

ditions they would take the government away from Hyrcanus,

and bestow it upon him, and withal kill Herod. And although

he did not give them what he had promised, yet did the Par­

thians make an expedition into Judea on that account, and car­

ried Antigonus with them. Pacorus went along the maritime

parts, but the commander Barzapharnes, through the midland.

Now the Tyrians excluded Pacorus, but the Sidonians, and those

of Ptolemais, received him. However, Pacorus sent a troop of

horsemen into Judea, to take a view of the state of the country,

and to assist Antigonus; and sent also the king's butler, of the

same name with himself. So when the Jews that dwelt about

mount Carmel came to Antigonus, and were ready to march

with him into Judea, Antigonus hoped to get some part of the

country by their assistance. The place is called Drymi; and

when some others came and met them, the men privately fell

upon Jerusalem; and when some more were come to them, they

got together in great numbers, and came against the king's

palace and besieged it. But as Phasaelus' and Herod's party

came to the other's assistance, and a battle happened between

them in the market-place, the young men beat their enemies,

and pursued them into the temple, and sent some armed men in­

to the adjoining houses, to keep them in, who yet being desti­

tute of such as should support them, were burnt, and the houses

with them, by the people who rose up against them. But He­

rod was revenged on these seditious adversaries of his a little af­

terward for this injury they had offered him» when he fought

with them, and slew a great number of them.

4. But while there were daily skirmishes, the enemy waited

for the coming of the multitude out of'the country to Pentecost,

a feast of ours so called: and when that day was come, many

ten thousands of the people were gathered together about the

temple, some in armour, and some without. Now those that

came, guarded both the temple and the city, excepting what

belonged to the palace, which Herod guarded with a few of his

soldiers; and Phasaelus had the charge of the wall, while He­

rod, with a body of his men, sallied out upon the enemy, who

lay in the suburbs, and fought courageously, and put many ten

thousands to flight, some flying into the city, and some into the

temple, and some into the outer fortifications, for some such

