Chap. VII. ANTIgUITIES OF THE JEW'S. 6{>

5. But for the king himself, he was not at all irritated against

Jeremiah, such was his gentle and righteous disposition ; yet that

he might not be engaged in a quarrel with those rulers at such a

time, by opposing what they intended, he let them do with

the prophet, whatsoever they would: Whereupon, when the

king had granted them such a permission, they presently came

into the prison and took him; and let him down with a cord

into a pit full of mire, that he might be suffocated, and die of

himself. So he stood up to the neck in the mire, which was all

about him, and so continued: but there was of the king's ser足

vants, who was in esteem with him, an Ethiopian by descent,

who told the king what a state the prophet was in, and said, that

his friends and his rulers had done evil in putting the prophet

into the mire, and by that means contriving against him that he

should suffer a death more bitter than that by his bonds only.

When the king heard this, he repented of his having delivered

up the prophet to the rulers, and bid the Ethiopian take thirty

men of the king's guards, and cords with them, and whatsoever

else they understood to be necessary for the prophet's preserva足

tion, and draw him up immediately. So the Ethiopian took

the men he was ordered to take, and drew up the prophet out

of the mire, and left him at liberty [in the prison],

6. But when the king had sent to call him privately, and in足

quired what he could say to him from God, which might be suit足

able to his present circumstances, and desired him to inform him

of it, Jeremiah replied, that "he had somewhat to say:" but he

said withal; he " should not be believed, nor if he admonished

"them, should be hearkened to; for, said he, thy friends have

"determined to destroy me, as though I had been guilty of

"some wickedness: and where are now those men who deceiv-

"ed us, and said that, the king of Babylon would not come and

"fight against us any more; but I am afraid now to speak the

"truth, lest thou shouldst condemn me to die." And when the

king had assured him upon oath, that he would neither himself

put him to death, nor deliver him up to the rulers, he became bold

upon that assurance that was given him; and gave him this ad-

vicfe, that " he should deliver the city up to the Babylonians; and

"he said, that it was God that prophesied this by him, that (he

"must do so) if he would be preserved and escape out of the dan-

"ger he was in, and that then neither should the city fall to the

"ground, nor should the temple be burned; but that (if he diso-

"beyed,) he would be the cause of these miseries coming upon the

"citizens, and of the calamity that would befall his whole house."

When the king heard this, he said, that "he would willingly do

"what he persuaded him to, and what he declared would be to

'* his advantage, but that he was afraid of those of his own coun

