144 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XII.

chapiters of the feet imitated the first buddings of lilies, while

their leaves were bent and laid under the table, but so that the

chives were seen standing upright within them. Their bases

were made of a carbuncle; and the place at the bottom, which

rested on that carbuncle, was one palm deep, and eight fingers

in breadth. Now they had engraven upon it with a very fine tool,

and with a great deal of pains, a branch of ivy, and tendrils of

the vine; sending forth clusters of grapes, that you would guess

they were no wise different from real tendrils, for they were so

very thin, and so very far extended at their extremities, that

they were moved with the wind, and made one believe that they

-were the product of nature, and not the representation of art.  
They also made the entire workmanship of the table appear to

be threefold, while the joints of the several parts were so united

together as to be invisible, and the places where they joined

could not be distinguished. Now the thickness of the table was

not less than half a cubit. So that this gift, by the king's great

generosity, by the great value of the materials, and the variety

of its exquisite structure, and the artificer's skill in imitating

nature with graving tools, was at length brought to perfection,

while the king was very desirous that though in largeness it

were not to be different from that which was already dedicated

to God, yet that in exquisite workmanship, and the novelty of

the contrivances, and in the splendour of its construction, it

should far exceed it, and be more illustrious than that was.

10. Now of the cisterns of gold there were two, whose sculp­

ture was of scale-work, from its basis to its belt-like circle, with

various sorts of stones inchased in the spiral circles. Next to

which there was upon it a meander of a cubit in height; it was

composed of stones of all sorts of colours. And next to this was

the rod-work engraven; and next to that was a rhombus in a

texture of net-work, drawn out to the brim of the bason, while

small shields made of stones, beautiful in their kind, and of four

fingers depth, filled up the middle parts. About the top of the

bason were wreathed the leaves of lilies, and of the convolvulus,

and the tendrils of vines, in a circular manner. And this was

the construction of the two cisterns of gold, each containing two

firkins. But those which were of silver were much more bright

and splendid than looking glasses, and you might in them see

the images that fell upon them more plainly than in the other.

The king also ordered thirty vials; those of which the parts that

were of gold, and not filled up with precious stones, were shadow­

ed over with the leaves of ivy, and of vines, artificially engraven.

And these were the vessels that were, after an extraordinary

manner, brought to this perfection, partly by the skill of the

workmen, who were admirable in such fine work, but much

