Chap. XII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 293

as being to marry the daughter of Alexander, the son of Aristo-

bulus, and the granddaughter of Hyrcanus, by which wife he

became the father of three male, and two female children. He

had also married before this another wife, out of a lower family

of his own nation, whose name was Doris, by whom he had his

eldest son Antipater.

2. Now Antonius and Caesar had beaten Cassius near Philippi,

as others have related; but after the victory, Caesar went into

Gaul, [Italy] and Antony marched for Asia, who, when he was

arrived at Bythinia, he had ambassadors that met him from all

parts. The principal men also of the Jews came thither, to ac­

cuse Phasaelus, and Herod, and they said, that Hyrcanus had in­

deed the appearance of reigning, but that these men had all the

power, but Antony paid great respect to Herod, who was come

to him to make his defence against his accusers, on which account

his adversaries could not so much as obtain a hearing; which

favour Herod had gained of Antony by money. But still, when

Antony was come to Ephesus, Hyrcanus the high priest, and our

nation, sent an embassage to him who carried a crown of gold

with them, and desired that he would write to the governors of

the provinces, to set those Jews free who had been carried cap­

tive by Cassius, and this without their having fought against him,

and to restore them that country, which, in the days of Cassius,

had been taken from them. Antony thought the Jews' desires

were just, and wrote immediately to Hyrcanus, and to the Jews.

He also sent, at the same time, a decree to the Tyrians; the

contents of which were to the same purpose.

3. " Marcus Antonius, imperator, to Hyrcanus the high priest

"and ethnarch of the Jews, sendeth greeting: If you be in

"health, it is well; I also am in health, with the army. Ly-

"simachus, the son of Pausanius, and Josephus the son of Men-

"neus, and Alexander the son of Theodorus, your ambassadors,

"met me at Ephesus, and have renewed that embassage which

"they had formerly been upon at Rome, and have diligently ac-

"quitted themselves of the present embassage, which thou and

"thy nation have entrusted to them, and have fully declared

"the good-will thou hast for us. I am therefore satisfied, both

"by your actions and your words, that you are well disposed

"to us; and I understand that your conduct of life is constant

"and religious: so I reckon upon you as our own: but when

"those that were adversaries to you, and to the Roman people,

"and abstained neither from cities nor temples, and did notob-

"serve the agreement they had confirmed by oath, it was not

"only on account of our contest with them, but on account of

"all mankind in common, that we have taken vengeance on

"those who have been the authors of great injustice towards men,

