Chap. VI. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. - 113

they had indignation at it: But when Nehemiah saw that the

city was thin of people, he exhorted the priests and the Levites,

that they would leave the country, and remove themselves to

the city, and there continue: and he built them houses at his

own expense: and he commanded that part of the people which

were employed in cultivating the land to bring the tithes ot

their fruits to Jerusalem, that the priests and Levites having

whereof they might live perpetually, and might not leave the

divine worship ; who willingly hearkened to the constitutions ot

Nehemiah, by which means the city Jerusalem came to be fuller

of people than it was before. So when Nehemiah had done

many other excellent things, and things worthy of commenda­

tion in a glorious manner, he came to a great age, and then

died. He was a man of a good and righteous disposition, and

very ambitious to make his own nation happy: and he hath left

the walls of Jerusalem as an eternal monument for himself.

Now this was done in the days of Xerxes.

CHAP. VI.

Concerning Esther, and Mordecai, and Human : and how in the

reign of Artaxerxes, the 'whole nation of the Jews, loas in

danger of perishing,

§ 1. AFTER the death of Xerxes, the kingdom came to be

transferred to his son Cyrus, whom the Greeks called Artaxer­

xes. When this man had obtained the government over the

Persians, the whole * nation of the Jews, with their wives and

* Since some sceptical persons are willing to discard this book of Esther as no  
true history; and even our learned and judicious Dr. Wall, in his late
posthumous

critical notes upon all the other Hebrew books of the Old Testament, gives us
none

upon the Canticles, or upon Esther, and seems thereby to give up this book, as
well

as he gives up the Canticles, as indefensible: 1 shall venture to say, that
almost all

the objections against this book of Esther are gone at once, if, as we
certainly ought

to do, and as Dean Prideaux has justly done, we place this history under
Artaxet-

xes Longimanus, as doth both the Septuagint interpreters and Josephus. The

learned Dr. Lee, in his posthumous dissertation on the second book of Esdras,
page

25. also says, That "the truth of this history is demonstrated by the feast of
Furini,

"kept up from that time to this very day. And this surprising providential
revolu-

"tion in favour of a captive people, thereby constantly commemorated, standeth
even

"upon a firmer basis than that there ever was such a man as king Alexander
[the

11 Great] in the world, of whose reign there is no such abiding monument at
this djiy

"to be found any where. Nor will they, I dare say, who quarrel at this or any
other

"of the sacred histories, find it a very easy matter to reconcile the
different accounts

"which were given by historians of the affairs of this king, or to confirm any
one

"fact of his whatever with the same evidence which is here given for the
principal

"fact in the sacred book, or even so much as to prove the^existence of such a
person,

"of whom so creat things are related, but upon granting this book of Esther,
or

"sixth of Esdras, (as it is placed in some of the most ancient copies of the
Vulgate,)

"to be a most true and certain history," &c.

