140 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIL

him of the release of the Jews that had been in slavery among

them. He also sent fifty talents of gold for the making of large

basons, and vials, and cups, and an immense quantity of precious

stones. He also gave orders to those who had the custody of the

chest that contained these stones, to give the artificers leave to

choose out what sorts of them they pleased. He withal appointed,

that a hundred talents in money should be sent to the temple,

for sacrifices, and for other uses. Now I will give a description

of these vessels, and the manner of their construction, but not

till after I have set down a copy of the epistle which was written

to Eleazar the high priest, who had obtained that dignity on the

occasion following: when Onias the high priest was dead, his

son Simon became his successor. He was called * Simon the Just,

because of both his piety towards God, and his kind disposition

to those of his own nation. When he was dead, and had left a

young son, who was called Onias, Simon's brother Eleazar, of

whom we are speaking, took the high priesthood; and he it was

to whom Ptolemy wrote, and that in the manner following:

"King Ptolemy to Eleazar the high priest, sendeth greeting:

"There are many Jews who now dwell in my kingdom, whom

"the Persians, when they were in power, carried captives.

"These were honoured by my father; some of them he placed

"in the army, and gave them greater pay than ordinary: to

"others of them, when they came with him into Egypt, he com-

"mitted his garrisons, and the guarding of them, that they

"might be a terror to the Egyptians. And when I had taken

"the government, I treated all men with humanity, and espe-

"cially those that are thy fellow citizens, of whom I have set

"free above a hundred thousand that were slaves, and paid the

"price of their redemption to their masters out of my own re-

"venues; and those that are of a fit age, I have admitted into

"the number of my soldiers. And for such as are capable of

"being faithful to me, and proper for my court, I have put

"them in such a post, as thinking this [kindness done to them]

"to be a very great and an acceptable gift, which I devote to

"God for his providence over me. And as I am desirous to do

"what will be grateful to these, and to all the other Jews in

"the habitable earth, I have determined to procure an interpre-

"tation of your law, and to have it translated out of Hebrew

"into Greek, and to be reposited in my library. Thou wilt

"therefore do well to choose out and send to me men of a good

"character, who are now elders in age, and six in number out

* We have a very great encomium of this Simon the Just, the son of Onias I. in  
the fiftieth chapter of the Ecclesiasticus, through the whole chapter. Nor is
it im­

proper to consult that chapter itself upon this occasion.

