122 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XI.

ready come, and standing before the court, they should tell him.

Now it happened that Raman was found there, for he was come

sooner than ordinary to petition the king to have Mordecai put

to death; and when the servants said, that Haman was before

the court, he Lid them call him in; and when he was come in,

he said, " Because I know that thou art my only fast friend, I de-

"sire thee to give me advice, how I may honour one that I

"greatly love, and that after a manner suitable to my magnifi-

"cence." Now Haman reasoned with himself, that what opi­

nion he should give it would be for himself, since it was he

alone who was beloved by the king: so he gave that advice

which he thought of all other the best; for he said, "If thou

"wouldest truly honour a man whom thou sayest thou dost love,

"give order that he may ride on horseback, with the same gar-

"ment on which thou wearest, and with a gold chain about his

"neck, and let one of thy intimate friends go before him, and

"proclaim through the whole city, that whosoever the king

"honoureth, obtaineth this mark of his honour." This was the

advice which Haman gave, out of a supposal that such a reward

would come to himself. Hereupon the king was pleased with

the advice, and said, "Go thou, therefore, for thou hast the

"horse, the garment, and the chain, ask for Mordecai the Jew,

"and give him those things, and go before his horse, and pro-

"claim accordingly; for thou art, said he, my intimate friend,

"and hast given me good advice; be thou then the minister of

'*' what thou hast advised me to. This shall be his reward from

"us, for preserving my life." When he heard this order, which

was entirely unexpected, he was confounded in his mind, and

knew not what to do. However, he went out and led the horse,

and took the purple garment, and the golden chain for the neck,

and finding Mordecai before the court, clothed in sackcloth, he

bid him put that garment off, and put the purple garment on «*

But Mordecai, not knowing the truth of the matter, but think­

ing that it was done in mockery, said, "O thou wretch, the

"vilest of all mankind, dost thou thus laugh at our calamities?"

But when he was satisfied that the king bestowed this honour up­

on him, for the deliverance he had procured him, when he con­

victed the eunuchs who had conspired against him, he put on that

purple garment which the king always wore, and put the chain

about his neck, and got on horseback, and went round the city,

while Haman went before, and proclaimed, "This shall be the

"reward which the king will bestow on every one whom he loves,

"and esteems worthy of honour." And when they had gone

round the city, Mordecai went in to the king, but Haman went

home, out of shame, and informed his wife and friends of what

had happened, and this with tears: who said, that "he would

