Chap. V. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 1H

wanted, and as he pleased. "Leave off thy sorrow then, said

"the king, and be cheerful in the performance of thy office

"hereafter." So Nehemiah worshipped God; and gave the

king thanks for his promise, and cleared up his sad and cloudy

countenance, by the pleasure he had from the king's promises.

Accordingly, the king called for him the- next day, and gave

him an epistle to be carried to Adeus, the governor of Syria,

and Phenicia, and Samaria; wherein he sent to him to pay due

honour to Nehemiah, and to supply him with what he wanted

for his building.

7. Now when he was come to Babylon and had taken with

him many of his countrymen, who voluntarily followed him,

he ca«i« to Jerusalem in the twenty and fifth year of the reign

of Xerxes: And when he had shown the * epistles to God, he

gave them to Adeus, and to the other governors. He also called

together "all the people to Jerusalem, and stood in the midst

of the temple, and made the following speech to them: "You

"know, O Jews, that God hath kept our fathers Abraham, and

"Isaac, and Jacob, in mind continually; and for the sake of their

"righteousness hath not left off the care of you: Indeed he hath

"assisted me in gaining this authority of the king to raise up our

"wall, and finish what is wanting of the temple. I desire you,

"therefore, who well know the ill-will our neighbouring nations

"bear to us; and that when once they are made sensible that we

"are in earnest about building, they will come upon us, and

"contrive many ways of obstructing our works, that you will, in

"the first place, put your trust in God, as in him that will assist

"us against their hatred, and to intermit building neither night

"nor day, but to use all diligence, and to hasten on the work;

"now we have this especial opportunity for it." When he had

said this, he gave order that the rulers should measure the wall,

and part the work of it among the people, according to their vil­

lages and cities, as every one's abilities should require. And

when he had added this promise, that he himself, with his ser­

vants, would assist them, he dissolved the assembly. So the Jews

prepared for the work: That is the name they are called by from

the day that they came up from Babylon, which is taken from the

tribe of Judah, which came first to these places, and thence

both they and the country gained that appellation.

8. But now when the Ammonites, and Moabites, and Sama-

* This showing king Xerxes* epistles to God, or laying them open before God in  
the temple, is very like the laying open the epistles of Sennacherib before
him also

ty Hezekiah, 2 Kings xix. 14. Jsa xxxvii. 14. although this last was for a
memo­

rial, lo put him in mind of the enemies, in order to move that divine
compassion,

and the present a" a token of gratitude for mercies already received, as
Havcvcamp

'''til observes on this place.

