CLap. VII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 12?

riches they had. Now there was slain by the Jews that were

in the country, and in the other cities, seventy-five thousand of

their enemies, and these were slain on the thirteenth day of the

month, and the next day they kept as a festival. In like manner

the Jews that were in Shushan gathered themselves together,

and feasted on the fourteenth day and that which followed it;

whence it is, that even now all the Jews that are in the hab­

itable earth keep these days festival, and send portions to one

another,. Mordecai also wrote to those Jews that lived in the

kingdom of Artaxerxes to observe these days, and celebrate them

as festivals, and to deliver them down to posterity, that this festi­

val might continue for all time to come, and that it might never

be buried in oblivion, for since they were about to be destroy­

ed on these days by Haman, they would do a right thing, upon

escaping the danger in them, and on them inflicting punishments

on their enemies, to observe those days, and give thanks to God

on them: for which cause the Jews still keep the foremention-

ed days, and call them * days of Phurim [or Purim."] And

Mordecai became a great and illustrious person with the king,

and assisted him in the government of the people. He also

lived with the queen: so that the affairs of the Jews were by

their means, better than they could ever have hoped for. And

this was the state of the Jews under the reign of Artaxerxes.f

CHAP. VII.

How John slew his brother Jesus in the temple; and how Bagoses

offered many injuries to the Jews, and what Sanballat did.

j 1. WHEN Eliashab the high priest was dead, his son

Judas succeeded in the high priesthood: and when he was dead,

his son John took that dignity; on whose account it was also

* Take here part of Reland's note on this disputed passage: "In Josephus*  
"copies these Hebrew words days nf Pvrim or Lots, as in Ihe Greek copies of

"Esther, chap. ix. 26, 28—32. is read days of plnirim, or days of protection,
but

"ought to be read days ofpurim, as in the Hebrew; than which emendation, says

"he, nothing is more certain." And had we any assurance that Josephus' copy

mentioned the casting af lots, as our other copies do. Esth. iii. 7. I should
fully

agree with Reland, but as it now stands it seems to me by no means certain.

f As to this whole book of Esther in the present Hebrew copy, it is so very
im­

perfect, in a case where the providence of God was so very remarkable, and the

Septuagint and Josephus have so much of religion, that it has not so much as
the

name of God once in it; and it is hard to say who made that epitome which the

Masorites have given us for the genuine book itself: no religious Jews could
well

be the authors of it, whose education obliged them to have a constant regard
to God

and whatsoever related to his worship; nor do we know that there ever was so
im­

perfect a copy of it in the world till after the day* of Barchocab, in the
second

century.

