3* ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book IX.

became very wicked in worshipping of idols, and in many un­

dertakings that were- absurd and foreign. He was also the cause

of ten thousand misfortunes to the people of Israel. Now one

Jonah, a prophet, foretold to him, that he should make war with

the Syrians, and conquer their army, and enlarge the bounds of

his kingdom on the northern parts, to the city Hamath, and on

the southern, to the lake Asphaltitis, for the. bounds of the

Canaanites originally were these as Joshua their general had

determined them. So Jeroboam made an expedition against the

Syrians and overran all their country, as Jonah had foretold.

2. Now I cannot but think it necessary for me, who have pro­

mised to give an accurate account of our affairs, to describe the

actions of the prophet, so far as I have found them written

down in the Hebrew books. Jonah had been commanded by

God to go to the kingdom of Nineveh; and when he was there,

to publish it in that city, how it should lose the dominion it had

over the nations. But he went not, out of fear; nay, he ran

away from God to the city of Joppa, and finding a ship there, he

went into it, and sailed to * Tarsus in Cilicia, and upon the

rise of a most terrible storm, which was so great that the ship

was in danger of sinking, the mariners, the master, and the pi­

lot himself, made prayers and vows, in case they escaped the sea;

but Jonah lay still and covered [in the ship], without imitating

any thing that the others did: but as the waves grew greater,

and the sea became more violent by the winds, they suspected,

as is usual in such cases, that some one of the persons that sailed

with them, was the occasion of this storm, and agreed to discover

by lot which of them it was. When they had f cast lots, the

as Josephus agrees with our other copies, and, as he adds "was the cause of a
vast

number of misfortunes to the Israelites," in those his first years, (the
particulars of

which are unhappily wanting both in Josephus and in all our copies), so does
it

seem to me that he was afterwards reclaimed, and became a good king, and so

was encouraged by the prophet Jonah, and had great successes afterward, when

"God had saved the Israelites by the hand of Jeroboam, the son of Joash," 2
Kings

xiv. 27. which encouragement by Jonah, and great successes are equally
observable

in Josephus, and in the other copies.

* When Jonah is said in our Bibles to have gone to Tarshish, Jonah i. 3. Jo­  
sephus understood it that he went to Tarshish in Cilicia, or to ihe
Mediterranean

Sta, upon which Tarsus lay: so that he docs not appear to have read the text,

J Kings xxii. 48. as our copies do, that ships of Tarshish could lie at Ezion-
Ge-

ber, upon the Red Sea. But as to Josephus' assertion that Jonah's fish was

carried by the strength of the current, upon a storm, as far as the F.uxine
Sea, it is

no way impossible: and since the storm might have driven the ship, while Jonah

was in it, near to the Euxine Sea, and since in three more days while he was
in the

fish's belly, that current might bring him to the Assyrian coast, and since
withal

that coast could bring him nearer to Nineveh than could any coast of the
Mediter­

ranean, it is by no means an improbable determination in Josephus.

f Thi's ancient piece of religion, of supposing there was great tin where
there

v as great misery, and of casting lots to discover great sinners, not only
among

