Chap. VII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 219

was called Nicator, got the dominion over Syria. Now the af­

fection of the multitude towards Simon was so great, that in

their contracts one with another, and in the public records, they

wrote, "In the first year of Simon the benefactor and ethnarch

"of the Jews:" for under him they were very happy, and over­

came the enemies that were round about them, for Simon over­

threw the city Gazara, and Joppa, and Jamnia. Pie also took

the citadel of Jerusalem by siege, and cast it down to the ground,

that it might not be any more a place of refuge to their enemies

when they took it, to do them a mischief, as it had been till now.

And when he had done this, he thought it their best way, and

most for their advantage, to level the very mountain itself upon

which the citadel happened to stand, that so the temple might

be higher than it. And indeed, when he had called the mul­

titude to an assembly, he persuaded them to have it so demolish­

ed, and this by putting them in mind what miseries they had

suffered by its garrison, and the Jewish deserters, and what

miseries they might hereafter suffer in case any foreigner should

obtain the kingdom, and put a garrison into that citadel. This

speech induced the multitude to a compliance, because he ex­

horted them to do nothing but what was for their own good:

so they all set themselves to the work, and levelled the moun­

tain, and in that work spent both day and night without any

intermission, which cost him three whole years before it was re­

moved, and brought to an entire level with the plain of the rest

of the city. After which the temple was the highest of all the

buildings, now the citadel, as well as the mountain whereon it

stood, were demolished. And these actions were thus perform­

ed under Simon.

CHAP. VII.

Hoi® Simon confederated himself with Antioclms Pius, and made

war against Trypho: and a little afterward against Cendebem,

the general of Anttochus' army: As also hoiio Simon was mur­

dered by his son-in-laiio Ptolemy, and that by treachery.

§ 1. * .N ow a little while after Demetrius Tiad been carried

* It must here be diligently noted, that Josephus' copy of the first book of Mac­  
cabeus, which he had so carefully followed, and faithfully abridged, as far as
the

50th verse of the twelfth chapter, seems there to have ended. What few things

there are afterward common to both, might probably be learned by him from some

other more imperfect records. However, we must exactly observe here, what the
re­

maining part of that book of the Maccabeus informs us of, and what Josephus
would

never have omitted, had his copy contained so much, that this Simon the Great,
the

Maccabee, made a league with Amiochus Soter, the son of Demetrius Soter, and
bro­

ther of the other Demetrius, who was now a captive in Parthia, that upon his
corr.i 115

VOL. II E £ 21

