416 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVI.

thinking him to be his friend by this advice, gave him presents,

upon all occasions, and at length persuaded him to inform

Herod of what he had heard. So when he related to the king

Alexander's ill temper, as discovered by the words he had hearrl

him speak, he was easily believed by him, and he thereby brought

the king to that pass, turning him about by his words, and ir­

ritating him, till he increased his hatred to him, and made him

implacable, which he showed at that very time, for he imme­

diately gave Eurycles a present of fifty talents; who, when he

had gotten them, went to Archelaus, king of Cappadocia, and

commended Alexander before him, and told him that he had

been many ways of advantage to him in making a reconciliation

between him and his father. So he got money from him also,

and went away, before his pernicious practices were found out;

but when Eurycles was returned to Lacedemon, he did not

leave off doing mischief, and so, for his many acts of injustice,

he was banished from his own country.

2. But as for the king of the Jews, he was not now in the

tempeV he was in formerly towards Alexander and Aristobulus,

when he had been content with the hearing their calumnies

when others told him of them, but he was now come to that pass

as to hate them himself, and to urge men to speak against them,

though they did not do it of themselves. He also observed all

that was said, and put questions, and gave ear to every one

that would but speak, if they could but say any thing against

them, till at length he heard that Euaratus of Cos was a con­

spirator with Alexander, which thing to Herod was the most

agreeable and sweetest news imaginable.

3. But still a greater misfortune came upon the young men;

while the calumnies against them- were continually increased,

and, as a man may say, one would think it was every one's

endeavour to lay some grievous thing to their charge;, which

might appear to be for the king's preservation. There were

two guards of Herod's body, who were in great esteem for their

strength and tallness, Jucundus and Tyrannus; these men had

been cast off by Herod, who was displeased at them; these

now used to ride along with Alexander, and for their skill in

their exercises were in great esteem with him, and had some

gold and other gifts bestowed upon them. Now the king having

an immediate suspicion of those men, had them tortured, who

endured the torture courageously for a long time, but at last

confessed that Alexander would have persuaded them to kill

Herod, when he was in pursuit of the wild beasts. That it

might be said he fell from his horse, and was run through with

his own spear, for that he had once such a misfortune formerly.

They also showed where there was. money hidden in the stable

