Cluvp. XIV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 303

yet was she not able to prevail with him to stay there, because

he was making haste to Rome, even though the weather was

stormy, and he was informed that the affairs of Italy were very

tumultuous and in great disorder.

3. So he set sail from thence to Pamphylia, and falling into a

violent storm, he had much ado to escape to Rhodes, with the

loss of the ship's burden; and there it was that two of his friends,

Sappinas and Ptolemeus, met with him: and as he found that

city very much damaged in the war against Cassius, though he

wei-e in necessity himself, he neglected not to do it a kindness,

but did what he could to recover it to its former state. He also

built there a three-decked ship, and set sail thence, with his

friends, for Italy, and came to the port of Brundusium; and

when he was come from thence to Rome, he first related to An­

tony what had befallen him in Judea, and how Phasaelus his

brother was seized on by the Parthians, and put to death by them;

and how Hyrcanus was detained captive by them, and how

they had made Antigonus king, who had promised them a sum

of money, no less than a thousand talents, with five hundred wo­

men, who were to be of the principal families, and of the Jew­

ish stock, and that he had carried off the women by night, and

that by undergoing a great many hardships, he had escaped the

hands of his enemies; as also, that his own relations were in dan­

ger of being besieged and taken, and that he had sailed through

a storm, and contemned all these terrible dangers of it, in order

to come, as soon as possible to him, who was his hope and

only succour at this time.

4. This account made Antony commiserate * the change that

had happened in Herod's condition; and reasoning with himself

that this was a common case among those that are placed in such

great dignities, and that they are liable to the mutations that

come from fortune, he was very ready to give him the as­

sistance he desired, and this because he called to mind the friend­

ship he had had with Antipater, because Herod offered him mo­

ney to make him king, as he had formerly given it him to make

him tetrarch, and chiefly because of his hatred to Antigonus, for

he took him to be a seditious person, and an enemy to the Ro­

mans. Caesar was also the forwarder to raise Herod's dignity,

and to give him his assistance in what he desired, on account of

the toils of war which he had himself undergone with Antipater

his fathei in Egypt, and of the hospitality he had treated him

* Concerning the chronology of Herod, and the time when he was fiW made  
king at Rome, and concerning the time when he began his second reign, without
a

rival, upon the conquest and slaughter of Antigonus, both principally derived
from

this and the two next chapters in .Joseplms, see the note on sect. 6, and
chap. xv.

»i;t. 10.

