38* ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XVI.

"kind entertainments made both by our nation and our city,

"to a man who is the ruler and manager of so much of the pub-

"lie affairs, as indications of that friendship which thou hast re-

"turned to the Jewish nation, and v.'hich hath been procured

"them by the family of Herod. So we put thee in mind of these

"things, in the presence of the king, now sitting by thee, and

"make our request for no more but this, that what you have

''' given us yourselves, you will not see taken away by others

"from us."

5. When Nicolaus had made this speech, there was no oppo­

sition made to it by the Greeks, for this was not an inquiry

made, as in a court of justice, but an intercession to prevent

violence to be offered to the Jews any longer; nor did the Greeks

make any defence of themselves, or deny what it was supposed

they had done. Their pretence was no more than this, that

while the Jews inhabited in their country, they were entirely

unjust to them [in not joining in their worship,] but they de­

monstrated their generosity in this, that though they worship­

ped according to their own institutions, they did nothing that

ought to grieve them. So when Agrippa perceived that they

had been oppressed by violence, he made this answer: "That

"on account of Herod's good-will and friendship, he was ready

"to grant the Jews whatsoever they should ask him, and that

"their requests seemed to him in themselves just; and that if

"they requested any thing farther, he should not scruple to

"grant it them, provided it was no way to the detriment of

"the Roman government; but that, while their request was

"no more than this, that what privileges they had already gi-

"ven them might not be abrogated, he confirmed this to them,

"that they might continue in the observation of their own cus-

"toms, without any one's offering them the least injury." And

when he had said this, he dissolved the assembly; upon which

Herod stood up, and saluted him, and gave him thanks for the

kind' disposition he showed to them. Agrippa also took this in

a very obliging manner, and saluted him again, and embraced

him in his arms; after which he went away from Lesbos; but

the king determined to sail from Samos to his own country;

and when he had taken his leave of Agrippa, he pursued his

voyage, and landed at Caesarea in a few days time, as having fa­

vourable winds, from whence he went to Jerusalem, and there

gathered all the people together to an assembly, not a few

being there out of the country also. So he came to them, and

gave them a particular account of all his journey, and of the af­

fairs of all the Jews in Asia, how by his means they would live

without injurious treatment for the time to come. He also told

them of the entire good fortune he had met *vith, and how he

