Chap. XIV. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS.

CHAP XIV.

Hole Demetrius Eucerus overcame Alexander, and yet in a little

time retired out of the country for fear of the Jews. As also

how Alexander slew many of the Jews, and thereby got clear of

his troubles. Concerning the death of Demetrius.

§ 1. So Demetrius came with an army, and took those that

invited him; and pitched his camp near the city Shechem ; upon

which Alexander, with his six thousand two hundred mercena­

ries, and about twenty thousand Jews, who were of his party,

went against Demetrius, who had three thousand horsemen,

and forty thousand footmen. Now there were great endeavours

used on both sides, Demetrius, trying to bring off the mercena­

ries, that were with Alexander, because they were Greeks, and'

Alexander, trying to bring off the Jews that were with Demetri­

us. However when neither of them could persuade them so

to do, they came to a battle, and Demetrius was the conqueror,

in which all Alexander's mercenaries were killed, when they

had given demonstration of their fidelity and courage. A great

number of Demetrius' soldiers were slain also.

2. Now as Alexander fled to the mountains, six thousand of

the Jews hereupon came together, [from Demetrius] to him,

out of pity at the change of his fortune; upon which Demetrius

\vas afraid, and retired out of the country; after which the Jews

fought against Alexander, and being beaten, were slain in great

numbers in the several battles which they had; and when he had

shut up the most powerful of them in the city Bethome, he be­

sieged them therein; and when he had taken the city, and gotten

the men into his power, he brought them to Jerusalem, and did

one of the most barbarous actions in the world to them: for as

he was feasting with his concubines, in the sight of all the city,

he ordered about eight hundred of them to be crucified, and while

they were living he ordered the throats of their children and

wives to be cut before their eyes. This was indeed by way of

revenge for the injuries they had done him; which punish­

ment yet was of an inhuman nature, though we suppose that

he had been ever so much distressed, as indeed he had been,

by his wars with them, for he had by their means come to the

last degree of hazard, both of his life and of his kingdom,

while they were not satisfied by themselves only to fight against

him, but introduced foreigners also for the same purpose; nay,

at length they reduced him to that degree of necessity, that he was

forced to deliver back to the king of Arabia the land of Moab

and Gilead; which he had subdued, and the places that were in

them, that they might not join with them in the war against him,

VOL. II. H H 23

