Chap. X. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 419

"their father's advantage so to do, lest some too severe proce-

"dure should be gone upon, in that anger and disorder thev

"were in, on occasion of the present suspicions; but that still

"he had not promised to send them to Caesar: and that he had

"not promised any thing else to the young men that could

"show ill-will to him."

8. When these ambassadors were come to Rome, they had a

fit opportunity of delivering their letters to Caesar; because they

found him reconciled to Herod; for the circumstance of Nico-

laus' embassage had been as follows: As soon as he was come

to Rome, and was about the court, he did not first of all set

about what he was come for only, but he thought fit also to

accuse Sylleus. Now the Arabians, even before he came to talk

with them, were quarrelling one with another, and some of them

left Sylleus' party, and joining themselves to Nicolaus, inform­

ed him of all the wicked things that had been done; and pro­

duced to him evident demonstrations of the slaughter of a great

number of Obodas' friends by Sylleus, for when these men left

Sylleus, they had carried off with them those letters whereby

they could convict him. When Nicolaus saw such an oppor­

tunity afforded him, he made use of it, in order to gain his own

point afterward, and endeavoured immediately to make a recon­

ciliation between Caesar and Herod; for he was fully satisfied, that

if he should desire to make a defence for Herod directly, he

should not be allowed that liberty; but that if he desired to accuse

Sylleus, there would an occasion present itself of speaking on

Herod's behalf. So when the cause was ready for a hearing,

and the day was appointed, Nicolaus, while Aretas' ambassadors

were present, accused Sylleus, and said, That "he imputed to

"him the destruction of the king [Obodas,] and of many others

"of the Arabians: that he had borrowed money, for no good

"design; and he proved that he had been guilty of adultery, not

"only with the Arabians, but Roman women also." And he

added, That "above all the rest he had alienated Caesar from

"Herod; and that all that he had said about the actions of He-

"rod were falsities." When Nicolaus was come to this topic, Cae­

sar stopped him from going on, and desired him only to spe:ik

to this aflair of Herod's; and to show that " he had not led an

"army into Arabia, nor slain two thousand five hundred men

"there, nor taken prisoners, nor pillaged the country." To which

Nicolaus made this answer, " I shall principally demonstrate,

"that either nothing at all, or but a very little, of those imputa-

"tions are true, of which thou hast been informed, for had they

"been true, thou mightest justly have been still more angry

"at Herod." At this strange assertion Caesar was very at­

tentive; and Nicolaus said, That there was a debt due to He

VOL. II. 3 G 27

