Chap. VIII. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 357

undaunted courage in this conspiracy. So they were led away

to execution by the king's guards that stood about them, and

patiently underwent all the torments inflicted on them till they

died. Nor; was it long before that spy who had discovered them

was seized on by some of the people, out of the hatred they bore

to him, and was not only slain by them, but pulled to pieces

limb from limb, and given to the dogs. This execution was seei

by many of the citizens, yet would not one of them discovei

the doers of it, till upon Herod's making a strict scrutiny after

them, by bitter and severe tortures, certain women that were

tortured, confessed whatthey had seen done; the authors of which

fact were so terribly punished by the king, that their entire

families were destroyed for this their rash attempt, yet did not

the obstinacy of the people, and that undaunted constancy they

showed in the defence of their laws, make Herod any easier to

them, but he still strengthened himself after a more secure man足

ner, and resolved to encompass the multitude every way, lest

such innovations should end in an open rebellion.

5. Since, therefore, he had now the city fortified by the pa足

lace in which he lived, and by the temple,- which had a strong

fortress by it, called Antonia, and was rebuilt by himself, he

contrived to make Samaria a fortress for himself also against all

the people, and called it Sebaste, supposing that this place would

be a strong hold against the country, not inferior to the former.

So he fortified that place, which was a day's journey distant from

Jerusalem, and which would be useful to him in common, to

keep both the country and the city in awe. He also built

another fortress for the whole nation; it was of old called Siiato's

Tower, but was by him named Caesarea. Moreover, he chose

out some select horsemen, and placed them in the great plain:

and built [for them] a place in Galilee called Gaba, with He-

sebonitis, in Perea. And these were the places which he parti足

cularly built, while he always inventing somewhat farther for his

own secuiity, and encompassing the whole nation with guards,

that they might by no means get from under his power, nor fall

into tumults, which they did continually upon any small com足

motion; and that if they did make any commotions he might

know of it, while some of his spies might be upon them from

the neighbourhood, and might both be able to know what they

were attempting, and to prevent it. And when he went about

building the wall of Samaria, he contrived to bring thither

many of those that had been assisting to him in his wars, and

many of the people in that neighbourhood also, whom he made

fellow-citizens with the rest. This he did out of an ambitious

desire of building a temple, and out of a desire to in.-ike the

city more eminent than it hod been before, but principally be-

