Chap. IX. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Sh9

were destitute both of methods of cure and of food, made the

pestilential distemper, which began after a violent manner, the

more lasting. The destruction of men also after such a manner

deprived those that survived of all their courage, because they had

no way to provide remedies sufficient for the distresses they were

in. \Vhen therefore the fruits of that year were spoiled, and

whatsoever they had laid up beforehand was spent, there was

no foundation of hope for relief remaining, but the misery, con­

trary to what they expected, still increased upon them; and this

not only at that year, while they had nothing for themselves left

[at the end of it,] but what seed they had sown perished also,

by reason of the ground not yieldingits fruitson the * second year.

This distress they were in made them also, out of necessity, to eat

many things that did not use to be eaten; nor, was the king him­

self free from this distress any more than other men, as being

deprived of that tribute he used to have from the fruits of the

ground, and having already expended what money he had, in his

liberality to those whose cities he had built; nor had he any

people that were worthy of his assistance, since this miserable

state of things had procured him the hatred of his subjects, for

it is a constant rule, that misfortunes are still laid to the account

of those that govern.

2. In these circumstances he considered with himself how to

procure some seasonable help; but this was a hard thing to be

done, while their neighbours had no food to sell them, and their

money also was gone, had it been possible to purchase a little

food at a great price. However, he thought it his best way, by

all means, not to leave off his endeavours to assist his people; so

he cut off the rich furniture that was in his palace, both of silver

and gold, insomuch that he did not spare the finest vessels he had,

or those that were made with the most elaborate skill of the ai -

tificers, but sent the money to Petronius, who had been made

prefect of Egypt by Caesar; and as not a few had already fled to him

under their necessities, and as he was particularly a friend to He­

* This famine that for two years affected Judea and Syria, the 13th and 14th years  
of Herod, which ave the 23d and 24th years before the Christian era, seems to
have

been more terrible during this time than was that in the days of Jacob, Gen.
xli, xlii.

And what makes the comparison the more remarkable is this, that now as well as

then, the relief they had was from Egypt also; then from Joseph the governoi
ot

Egypt, under Pharaoh king of Egypt, and now from Petronius the prefect of

Egypt, under Augustus the Roman emperor. See almost the like case, Antiq. B.

XX. chap. ii. sect. 6. vol. III. It is also well worth our observation here,
that these two

years were a sabbatic year, and a y«ar of jubilee, for which Providence,
during the

theocracy, used to provide a treple crop beforehand, but became now, when the

Jews had forfeited that blessing, the greatest years of famine to them ever
since the

days of Ahab, 1 Kings xvii, xviii.

