Chap. X. ANTIQUITIES OK THE JEWS. 231

* Eleazar, a man of an ill temper, and delighting in seditious  
practices. This man said, "since thou desirest to know the

"truth, if thou wilt be righteous in earnest, lay down the high

"priesthood, and content thyself with the civil government of

"the people." And when he desired to know for what cause

he ought to lay down the high priesthood, the other replied,

"We have heard it from old men, that thy mother had been

"a captive under the reign of Antiochus Epiphanes." This

story was false, and Hyrcanus was provoked against him; and

all the Pharisees had a very great indignation against him.

6. Now there was one Jonathan, a very great friend of Hyr­

canus', but of the sect of the Sadducees, whose notions are quite

contrary to those of the Pharisees. He told Hyrcanus, that

"Eleazar had cast such a reproach upon him, according to the

"common sentiments of all the Pharisees, and that this would

"be made manifest, if he would but ask them the question, what

"punishment they thought this man deserved? for that he might

"depend upon it, that the reproach was not laid on him with their

"approbation, if they were for punishing him as his crime de-

"served." So the Pharisees made answer, that " he deserved

"stripes and bonds, but that it did not seem right to punish re-

"proaches with death." And indeed the Pharisees, even upon

other occasions, are not apt to be severe in punishments. At

this gentle sentence, Hyrcanus was very angry, and thought that

this man reproached him by their approbation. It was this Jona­

than who chiefly irritated him, and influenced him so far, that

he made him leave the party of the Pharisees, and abolish the

decrees they had imposed on the people, and to punish those that

observed them. From this source arose that hatred which he

and his sons met with from the multitude; but of these matters

we shall speak hereafter. What I would now explain is this,

that the Pharisees have delivered to the people a great many ob­

servances by succession from their fathers, which are not writ­

ten in the laws of Moses; and for that reason it is that the Sad­

ducees reject them, and say, that we are to esteem those observ­

ances to be obligatory which are in the written word, but are

not to observe what are derived from the tradition of our fore­

fathers. And concerning these things it is that great disputes

and differences have arisen among them, while the Sadducees are

able to persuade none but the rich, and have not the populace

obsequious to them, but the Pharisees have the multitude on

* This slander, that arose from a Pharisee, has been preserved by their successors  
the Rabbins, to these later ages, for Dr. Hudson assures us, that David Gantz,
in

bis Chronology, S. pr. p. 77. in Vorstius* version, relates that Hyrcanus'
mother

was taken captive in mount Modiith. See chap. xiii. sect. 5.

