156 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XIJ.

coming to him, to excuse the multitude, as not having done him

any harm, for that he was their patron. In short, he was so very

large in his encomiums upon the young man, that he disposed

both the king and his wife Cleopatra to have a kindness for him

before he came, So Joseph sent to his friends at Samaria, and

borrowed money of them; and got ready what was necessary for

his journey, garments and cups, and beasts for burthen, which

amounted to about twenty thousand drachmae, and went to Alex­

andria. Now it happened that at this time all the principal

men and rulers went up out of the cities of Syria and Phenicia,

to bid for their taxes; for every year the king sold them to the

men of the greatest power in every city. So these men saw Jo­

seph journeying on the way, and laughed at him for his poverty

and meanness. But when he came to Alexandria^ and heard

that king Ptolemy was at Memphis, he went up thither to meet

with him; which happened as the king was sitting in his cha­

riot, with his wife and with his friend Athenion, who was the

very person who had been ambassador at Jerusalem, and been en­

tertained by Joseph. As soon therefore as Athenion saw him,

he presently made him known to the king, how good and gene­

rous a young man he was. So Ptolemy saluted him first, and

desired him to come up into his chariot; and as Joseph sat there,

he began to complain of the management of Onias. To which

he answered, Forgive him, on account of his age for thou canst

not certainly be unacquainted with this, that old men and in­

fants have their minds exactly alike; but thou shalt have from

us, who are young men, every thing thou desirest, and shalt have

no cause to complain. With this good humour and pleasantry

of the young man, the king was so delighted, that he began al­

ready, as though he had long experience of him, to have a still

greater affection for him, insomuch, that he bade him take his

diet in the king's palace, and be a guest at his own table every

day. But when the king was come to Alexandria, the principal

men of Syria saw him sitting with the king, and were much of­

fended at it.

4. And when the day came on which the king was to let the

taxes of the cities to farm, and those that were the principal

men of dignity in their several countries were to bid for them,

the sum of the taxes together, of Celesyria and Phenicia, and

Judea, with Samaria [as they were bidden for,] came to eight

thousand talents. Hereupon Joseph accused the bidders, as hav­

ing agreed together to estimate the value of the taxes at too low

a rate; and he promised, that he would himself give twice as

much for them: but for those who did not pay, he would send

the king home their whole substance; for this privilege was

sold together with the taxes themselves. The king was pleased

