Chap. XV. . ANTIQUITIES OI' THE JEWS. 307

3. And now it was that Silo discovered that he had taken

bribes: for he set a good number of his soldiers to complain

aloud of want of provisions they were in, and to require money

to buy them food, and that it was fit to let them go into

places proper for winter quarters, since the places near the city

were a desert, by reason that Antigonus' soldiers had carried

all away; so he set the army upon removing, and endeavoured

to march away: But Herod pressed Silo not to depart; and ex­

horted Silo's captains and soldiers not to desert him, when Cae­

sar and Antony, and the senate, had sent him thither, for that

he would provide them plenty of all the things they wanted,

and easily procure them a great abundance of what they re­

quired; after which entreaty, he immediately went out into

the country, and left not the least pretence to Silo for his de­

parture, for he brought an unexpected quantity of provisions,

and sent to those friends of his who inhabited about Samaria,

to bring down corn, and wine, and oil, and cattle, and all other

provisions, to Jericho, thnt there might be no want of a supply

for the soldiers for the time to come. Antigonus was sensible

of this, and sent presently over the country such as might re­

strain and lie in ambush for those that went out for provisions.

So these men obeyed the orders of Antigonus, and got together

a great number of armed men about Jericho, and sat upon the

mountains, and watched those that brought the provisions. How­

ever, Herod was not idle in the meantime, for he took ten

bands of soldiers, of whom five were of the Romans, and five of

the Jews, with some mercenaries among them, and with some

few horsemen, and came to Jericho; and as they found the city

deserted, but that five hundred of them had settled themselves

on the tops of the hills, with their wives and children, those he

took and sent away; but the Romans fell upon the city, and

plundered it, andfound the houses full of all sorts of good things:

So the king left a garrison at Jericho, and came back again, and

sent the Roman army to take their winter quarters in the coun­

tries that were come over to him, Judea and Galilee, and Sa­

maria. And so much did Antigonus gain of Silo for the bribes

he gave him, that part of the army should be quartered at Lid-

da, in order to please Antony. So the Romans laid their wea­

pons aside, and lived in plenty of all things.

4. But Herod was not pleased with lying still, but sent out

his brother Joseph against Idumea with two thousand armed

footmen, and four hundred horsemen, while he himself came

to Samaria, and left his mother and his other relations there, for

they were already gone out of Massada, and went into Galilee,

to take certain places which were held by the garrisons ot Anti­

gonus; and he passed on to Senphoris, as God sent a snow, while

VOL. II. Q Q 26

