70 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book X.

poor, and those that had deserted, in the country, and made

one, whose name was Gedaliah, the son of Ahikam, a person of

a noble family, their governor; which Gedaliah was of a gentle

and righteous disposition. He also commanded them that they

should cultivate the ground, and pay an appointed tribute to the

king. He also took Jeremiah the prophet out of prison, and

Would have persuaded him to go along with him to Babylon, for

that he had been enjoined by the king to supply him with what­

soever he wanted : and if he did not like to do so, he desired him

to inform him where he resolved to dwell, that he might sig­

nify the same to the king: but the prophet had no mind to

follow him, nor to dwell any where else, but would gladly live

In the ruins of his country, and in the miserable remains of it.

When the general understood what his purpose was, he en­

joined Gedaliah, whom he left behind, to take all possible care

of him, and to supply him with whatsoever he wanted: So

when he had given him rich presents, he dismissed him. Ac­

cordingly, Jeremiah abode in a city of that country, which was

called Mispah; and desired of Nebuzaradan, that he would set

at liberty his disciple * Baruch, the son of Neraiah, one of a

Very eminent family, and exceeding skilful in the language of

his country.

2. When Nabuzaradan had done thus, he made haste to Ba­

bylon: But as to those that fled away during the siege of Jeru­

salem, and had been scattered over the country, when they heard

that the Babylonians were gone away, and had left a remnant

in the land of Jerusalem, and those such as were to cultivate the

same, they came together from all parts to Gedaliah to Mispah.

Now the rulers that were over them were Johanan, the son of

Kareah, and Jazeniah, andSeraiah, and others beside them. Now

there was of the royal family one Ishmael, a wicked man, and

very crafty, who during the siege of Jerusalem, fled to Baalis,

the king of the Ammonites, and abode with him during that

time: And Gedaliah persuaded them now they were there, to

stay with him, and to have no fear of the Babylonians, for that

if they would cultivate the country, they should suffer no harm,

This he assured them of by oath; and said, that they should

have him for their patron, and that if any disturbance should

arise, they should find him ready to defend them. He also advis­

ed them to dwell in any city, as everyone of them pleased; and

that they would send men along with his own servants, and re­

build their houses upon the old foundations, and dwell there,

and he admonished them beforehand, that they should make

* Of Ihis character of Baruch the son of Neraiah, and the genuineness of his book  
thai stands now in our Apocrypha, and thai it is ivally a canonical book, and
an ap­

pendix to Jeremiah, see Authcut. Rec. part 1. page 1—11.

