10 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEW'S. Book IX.

ail went in haste, as to an advantage already gained, and came

to the enemies' camp, as supposing them destroyed already.

But their hope deceived them, for as their enemies stood

round about them, some of them were cut to pieces, and others

of them were dispersed, and fled to their own country. And

when the kings fell into the land of Moab, they overthrew the

cities that were in it, and spoiled their fields, and marred them,

filling them with stones out of the brooks, and cut down the

best of their trees, and stopped up their fountains of water, and

overthrew their walls to their foundations. But the king of

Moab, when he was pursued, endured a siege, and seeing his

city in danger of being overthrown by force, made a sally, and

went out with seven hundred men, in order to break through

the enemies' camp with his horsemen, on that side where the

watch seemed to be kept most negligently : and when, upon trial,

he could not get away, for he light upon a place that was care­

fully watched, he returned into the city, and did a thing that

showed despair and the utmost distress; for he took his eldest

son, who was to reign after him, and lifting him up upon the

wall, that he might be visible to all the enemies, he offered him

as a whole burnt-offering to God, whom, when the kings saw,

they commiserated the distress that was the occasion of it, and

were so affected, in way of humanity and pity, that they raised

the siege, and every one returned to his own house. So Jeho-

shaphat came to Jerusalem, and continued in peace there, and

out-lived this expedition but a little time, and then died, having

lived in all sixty years, and of them reigned twenty-five. He

was buried in a magnificent manner in Jerusalem, for he had

imitated the actions of David.

CHAP. IV.

Jehoram succeeds Jehoshaphat.- how Joram, his namesake, king of

Israel, fought with the Syrians ,- and what wonders were done

by the prophet Elisha.

§ 1. JEHOSHAPHAT had a good number of children; but

he appointed his eldest son Jehoram, to be his successor, who

had the same name with his mother's brother, that was king of

Israel, and the son of Ahab. Now when the king of Israel was

come out of the land of Moab to Samaria, he had with him Elisha

the prophet, whose acts I have a mind to go over particularly,

for they were illustrious and worthy to be related, as we have

set them down in the sacred books.

2. For they say that the * widow of Obadiah, Ahab's steward,

* That this woman who cried to Elisha, and who in our Bible is styled the  
wrfc of one of the sans of the jtrojihets, 2 Kings iv. 1. was no other than
the

