Chap. X. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 283

"necessary for sacrifices: and my will is, that you writ? this to

"the several cities under your jurisdiction."

13. And these were the concessions that Dolabella made to our

nation when Hyrcanus sent an embassage to him. But Lucius

the consul's decree ran thus: "I have at my tribunal set these

"Jews, who are citizens of Rome, and follow the Jewish reli-

"gious rites, and yet live at Ephesus, free from going into the

"army, on account of the superstition they are under. This

"was done before the twelfth of the calends of October, when

"Lucius Lentullus, and Cains Marcellus, were consuls, of the

"presence of Titus Appius Balgus, the son of Titus, and lieuten-

"ant of the Horatian tribe, of Titus Tongius, the son of Titus

"of the Crustamine tribe, of Quintus Resius, the son of Quin-

"tus, of Titus Pompius Longinus, the son of Titus, of Caius

"Servillius, the son of Caius of the Terentine tribe, of Bracchus

"the military tribune, of Publius Lucius Gallus, the son of Pub-

"lius of the Veturian tribe of Caius Sentius, the son of Caius

"of the Sabbatine tribe, of Titus Attilius Bulbus, the son of

"Titus, lieutenant and vice-praetor, to the magistrates, senate,

"and people of the Ephesians, sendeth greeting: Lucius Lentul-

"lus the consul freed the Jews that are in Asia from going into

"the armies at my intercession for them. And when 1 had

"made the same petition sometime afterward to Phanius the

"imperator, and to Lucius Antonius the vice-questor, I obtain-

"ed that privilege of them also; and my will is, that you take

"care that no one give them any disturbance."

14. The decree of the Delians. "The answer of the pretors,

"when Beotus was archon, on the twentieth day of the month

"Thargeleon, while Marcus Piso the lieutenant lived in our

"city, who was also appointed over the choice of the soldiers,

"he called us, and many other of the citizens, and gave order,

"that if there be here any Jews, who are Roman citizens, no

"one is to give them any disturbance about going into the ar-

"my, because Cornelius Lentullus, the consul, freed the Jews

"from going into the army, on account of the superstition

"they are under; you are therefore obliged to submit to the

"pretor." And the like decree was made by the Sardians

about us also.

15. "Caius Phanius, the son of Caius, imperator and consul,

''' to the magistrates of Cos, sendeth greeting: I would have you

"know that the ambassadors of the Jews have been with me,

"and desired they might have those decrees which the senate

"had made about them; which decrees are here subjoined. My

"will is, that you have a regard to, and take care of these men,

"according to the .senate's decree, that they may be safely con-

"veyed home through your country."

VOL. II. N N S8

