Chap. X. ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. 287

"the Hebrews, as we have [also] found it set down in our pub-

"lie records."

23. The decree of those of Helicarnasus. When Memnon the

son of Oristidas by descent, but by adoption of Eunonymus, was

priest, on the * * * day of the month Aristerion, the decree of

the people, upon the representation of Marcus Alexander, was

this: "Since we have ever a great regard to piety towards God,

"and to holiness, and since we aim to follow the people of the

"Romans, who are the benefactors of all men, and what they

"have written to us about a league of friendship and mutual

"assistance between the Jews and our city, and that their sa-

"cred offices, and accustomed festivals and assemblies may be

"observed by them, we have decreed, that as many men and

"women of the Jews as are willing so to do, may celebrate their

"Sabbaths, and perform their holy offices, according to the

"Jewish laws: and may make their proseuchffl at the seaside,

"according to the customs of their forefathers; and if any one,

"whether he be a magistrate or private person, hindereth them

"from so doing, he shall be liable to a fine, to be applied to the

"uses of the city."

24. The decree of the Sardians. This decree was made by

tl»e senate and people, upon the representation of the pretors;

"Whereas those Jews, who are our fellow-citizens, and live

"with us in this city, have ever had great benefits heaped upon

"them by the people, and have come now into the senate, and

"desired of the people that upon the restitution of their law

"and their liberty, by the senate and people of Rome, they may

"assemble together, according to their ancient legal custom,

"and that we will not bring any suit against them about it; and

"that a place may be given them where they may have their

"congregations, with their wives and children, and may offer,

"as did their forefathers, their prayers and sacrifices to God;

"' now the senate and people have decreed to permit them to as-

"semble together on the days formerly appointed, and to act

"according to their own laws; and that such a place be set

"apart for them by the pretors, for the building and inhabiting

"the same, as they shall esteem fit for that purpose. And that

"those that take care of the provisions for the city, shall take

"care that such sorts of food as they esteem fit for their eating,

"may be imported into the city."

25. The decree of the Ephesians. When Menophilus was

prytanis, on the first day of the month Artemisius, this decree

was made by the people: "Nicanor the son of Euphemius, pro-

"nounced it, upon the representation of the pretors. Since the

"Jews that dwell in this city have petitioned Marcus Julius

"Pompeius, the son of Brutus, the proconsul, that they might

