128 ANTIQUITIES OF THE JEWS. Book XI.

'that Bagoses, the general of * another Artaxerxes' army,

polluted the temple, and imposed tributes on the Jews, that out

of the public stock, before they offered the daily sacrifices, they

should pay for every lamb fifty shekels. Now Jesus was the

brother of John, and was a friend of Bagoses, who had promised

to procure him the high priesthood. In confidence of whose sup­

port, Jesus quarrelled with John in the temple, and so provoked

his brother, that in his anger his brother slew him. Now it was

a horrible thing for John, when he was high priest, to perpe­

trate so great a crime; and so much the more horrible, that there

never was so cruel and impious a thing done, neither by the

Greeks nor Barbarians. However, God did not neglect its

punishment, but the people were on that very account enslaved

and the temple was polluted by the Persians. Now when Ba­

goses, the general of Artaxerxes' army, knew that John, the

high priest of the Jews, had slain his own brother Jesus in th'e

temple, he came upon the Jews immediately, and began in anger

to say to them, "Have you had the impudence to perpetrate a

." murder in your temple!" And as he was aiming to go into

the temple, they forbade him so to do; but he said to them,

"Am not I purer than he that was slain in the temple?" And

'when he had said these words, he went into the temple. Ac­

cordingly, Bagoses made use of this pretence, and punished the

Jews seven years for the murder of Jesus.

2. Now when John had departed this life, his son Jaddua suc­

ceeded in the high priesthood. He had a brother, whose name

was Manasseh. Now there was one Sanballat, who was sent by

Darius, the last king [of Persia,] into Samaria. He was a

Cuthean by birth; of which stock were the Samaritans also. This

man knew that the city Jerusalem was a famous city, and that

their kings had given a great deal of trouble to the Assyrians,

and the people ot Celesyria; so that he willingly gave his daugh­

* Concerning this other Artaxerxes, called Mnemon, and the Persian afflictiwi  
and captivity of the Jews under him occasioned by the murder of the high
priest's

brother in the holy house itsetf, see Authent. Rec. at large, page 49. And if
any

wonder why Josephus wholly omits the rest of the kings of Persia after Artax

IMnemon, till he came to their last king Darius, who was conquered by Alex-

the Great, I shall give them Vossius' and Dr. Hudson's answer, though ii

own word'-, viz. That Josephus did not do ill in omitting those kings of 1
,-.,.,.

with whom the Jews had no concern; because he was giving the history of the
Jews,

and not of the Persians: [which is a sufficient reason also why he entirely
omits

the history and the book of Job, as not particularly relating to that nation.]
He

justly, therefore, returns to the Jewish affairs after the death of
Longimanus, with­

out any mention of Darius II. before Artaxerxes Mnemon, or of the Ochus or

Arogus, as the Canon of Ptolemy names them after him. Nor had he probably

mentioned this other Artaxerxes unless liagcties, one of the governors and
comman­

ders under him, had occasioned the pollution of the Jewish temple, and had
greatly

- distressed the Jews upon that pollution.

Artaxerxes

nder

in my

Persia

